with over L.arrie their in touch• earlier eight wort as e· Win at- l,ooO tnis Y. • Arounil ·Town The nmrln~ will ree:rult a special ,platoon f~om the C!l.pital . district a.rea. which 'iirill' g~> tlm~ugh tt'ain· trnsts ing· camp as a sln.gle unit, lt was announced tllis week. The new plan is an aliS'IVer \to complal.rtts of vetemns that th,ey \vere •sepa.rated fr.om their frie11.ds upon erilisting. ' '!f. :(;. •If. Fabian Theaters will pay their patrens bus :fares home as a con- · .tribution to the drive to put the . Schenectady Railw-ay company oil. its feet. The free rides home will start tonight and be in• effect vevy evening from 8 :p;m. to 1 a.m. Bus · riders going downtown between 6 - Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 78~ No. 9 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1950 PRICE 1 0 CENTS Non-Violence Is Answer .to ·wars Accident Victim Plaque Replaces Traditional Award and 9· p.m. will re·eeive coupons on By Jerome mein request. Whent the C(lU:pons have Th B C t d't' I b I f h 1 t' tt • been stampe<)i ])y ·the theater cash- I .• As a featur~ of Religious Emphasis Week, Dr. Eddy. . e erg up, , ra l wna sym o o sc o as IC a am- iers, they 'Will be good tor the Asuva~h.a~, Indian author, theologian and educator, has ment for fraternitiel:\, was awarded this fall for the last ride homeward; Fabian Theaters been VlSitmg on cam}ms. 'rhe overall theme ·Of his claSS'- time. In its place the Graduate Council will award a plaque ~~~d!ni~~~~~d,· Strand, Plaza; :room. lectures, cha:pel -talks and seminars has heen \Is There for scholarship, under drastically revised conditions. ¥ Ito '¥'- an Alternative to War\. -------~--~ THE NEW system was proposed, \''T' T.HE THE• ·TEvs·· DR EDDY \'-------~~~------ Sk l~ l , as a three year experiment. by ·no. ,.... · '\ • , Asirvatham's answer·.~ · · '· \'~ i G ill 1n· · · · e er s Dean C. William Huntley and Miss the Philippin.~\ 'With Tyrone . ~ . . Francis Travis, Recorder. A:ny Proctor's: n.o:..e:r ean. : uet'I a to the question of the week is, N p· · · • Power and :Micheline Prelle. Also. found in .the tool' of non-violence'· . ew . r·exy social fraternity consisting of 10 playmg, '\The· :Fllller Brush Gil'l'' successfully utilized' by Ghandi.: . ~ s l u or more members and recognized · · d Eddi Al a ·es p by the college is eligible. To that with Lucille Ball an e - The prevention of war is ,possible· F A t · · · · : f t 1 h th ra ern ty which ac ieves e ber!;. if t·h·e· following of Gha.ndi's pr.·o-·. .or . ·c ors greatest improvement in average State: .Abbott 111I1d Clostello \In the . Foreign Leg;ion\ aJLd' Diana Lynn pos1t!ons could be put mto active. Stephen P. Brown, 18, a sopho- The most pertinent item index over the year will be award~ ,<n \Peggy'' :practice, \Cultivation of .a genuine Richard G. Heimann was elected · 'at Union. College, and his f b · d t th ed a plaque which becomes the • .o · USiness covere · a e permanent possession of the win- Erie: Dana An.drews, Gene Tier-: passion of truth, and justice; a President of the Mo-untebanks at' were killed in the Long meeting of the student coun-• ner. ney, \Where tbe Sidewalk Ends\. bold determination to .break the: their membership meeUng last Train wreck o-n Wednesday Rivoll: ';I'bro11gh. ·Saturday, \Falle:!l. vicious circle of ·aggression by Wednesday night. George Carter November 23rd. Steve was ·Cillast Tuesday was the com- The purpose of this new award Idol\ and \Cli ·am.pagne for means of medication, negotiation, and William Brandow were elected home from college for prehensive report submitted is to stimulate and reward scholas- Caesar';, · meal;J.s of mediation, negotiation, to the theatre group's executive· the Thanksgiving vacation. He and by Andrew C. DeHont con- tic achievement in fraternities, Lincoln: Thr()ng-ltSaturday: ••sum- arbitratioJ:+ and adJ'ucation·, cuJti.:.· council. The Mountebanks then his father, who met him at :Penn- •. th f\ • l t t and to perpertuate the name of • G •- d approved th I \Gl .u· sylv· ani·a Stat1'on w · th I t cernmg . e mancia S a US Dr. Ernst Ju!1'us Berg. Dr. Berg, mer Stocl{\ ·.with Judy a,r,...n • vation of humility; and prepara- · e Pay ass ,., ... an- · , ere m e as ~ :to ~ . :tion to inflict self suffering''. agerie\ as their winter production. car of the 6:09 to Hempstead, Long of the rathskellel'. an expert mathematician and New York state 1951 license: The use of non-violence by HEIMANN replaced Robert Kela- Island: The 6:13 :ran. through the THE REPORT showed that the electrophysicist, and associate ,of plates will. go on se.le• Monday at \G'handi was not a passive instru-: fant who had to resign due to aca-: Signals, frashmg mto the 6 :()9, rathskeller sales have .increased Charles P. Steinmetz, was head of motor vehlCle b1.1reaus a11d :c?unty .ment but a dynamic and construe- demic pressure. The new president 78 people and injuring sev- from $536 to $684 over a period of Union's Electrical Engineering De- l k ffi ,.... 1 t w 1 II be who plans t make th theat e h. era! hundred others fi've weeks end1'ng Nov. 1. Inverse- partment for 28 years. When he ~ er s o . ces. ,._ wo P a ~s . · i. ·,.tive one. By placing all his ·cards 0 e r IS · 1ssued t~IS yea.r. The 51 plates, ;on the table, sh<lwing nothing to professio-n desgined the sets for . BROWN was a m_ember of Phi ly, the percentage of beer sales has retired in 1940, Dr. Berg was made orange \:1th l>la.clt letters and ~um- •be· up his steeve, Ghandi succeeded. the Mountebank's last play, \Light Sigma D~lta Fratermty and a pre- decreased to eleven prcnt of the Professor Emeritus by the Board erals, w11l cany the motto The :in revealing to his opponents the Up The Sky\ and portrayed its med ~aJOor. He• le~ves a mother total sales. The gross income of of Trustees. Empire State\ at the bottom. ,wrong that the opiJonent was per- male lead. Heimann said he felt and sister of Baldw1n, Long Island. the rathskeller at the present time IN 1913, when he first carne to ~ Ito :JFo petrating. . quite ·oonfident that the Mounte- A memorial servi.ce sponsored by is $2,980, but after all expenses plus Union, Dr. Berg founded the Berg Vistors to Sil.ratcga these days ~ banks are well on their way to one his fraternity brothers will be con- the purchase of a new refrigerator Scholarship. His purpose In creat- wlll find that :tile price of bottled DR. .ASIRVATliA.M calls at- of their most successful production ducted in his honor at noon. Wed- were ded'ucted, a net profit of $114 ing t:his prize was to award fra-, beer is up ·a. nickel. The 1()-cent tention to the fact that it is a mis- years. Carter al)d Brandow were nesday in Old Chapel. All. mem- remained to be added to the sur- ternity achievement in scholarship glass of beel' 'Will remain, but each c~nception to. believe tho:;.~ Asia,ns Scene Technician and House Man- hers of the college commumty are plus. and to. stimulate further achieve- taproom will deci(le for itself a1e. a lethargiC ~eople gl\cn ~ner ager respectively for the fall play. invited to attend. The student body decided to hold ment. The cup was \awarded at whether or no.'t the glasses get :entuei;r to fatalism. Th~ Onent, Tennessee Williams' Pulitzer --------------- a \Winter Weekend\ under the the opening of the faU term to smaller, ~ccor<;~-mg to tl:_le Jectm;er, IS pulsat- Prize play \The Glass Managerie\ H G • auspices of the student council, and that fraternity or like organization ~ .y. '!f. mg Wlth new hfe and a renaissance was selected by the general inem- . onor . lVen the dates for this affair were set whose scholarship during the pre- N · · has occurred since the turn of the b · f h 23 d' th h' h t\ I Thousands of former az1s are century, bership as the next production. The y the council or t e , 24 and cee mg year was e 1g es . n back at their jol?s teaching school play enjo·yed a long Broadway run T s 0 25 of February. lt will be held in calculating the average index of in Western Ger:man)\ according to . As prerequisites for the estab- and has since been made into a op en-rors place of the Winter Prom .and will each fraternity, Dr. Berg provided news reports. ·Most of them were lishment of peace .in .Asia, the successful motion picture. The . · . . II , feature .social activities similar to that one-tenth of a point should small fry, \nmnih.al Nazis,\ those author maintains i m p'eria.li sm, cast has not yet been selected. those of the Prom weekends. be added to the average index for who joined thE party to retain .colonialism and racial inequality PROFESSOR DONALD Jones, Stage appointments for the Janu- THE COUNCIL approved the each man in the fraternity who their jobs. But.. in one area, 47 must be liquidated. The Asiatic advisor to the Mountebanks, stated ary .graduation have been an- constitutions of the Board of Man- attained an index of four point or teachers were once .convicted of looks questioningly upon the action at the meeting the the players had nounced by Dean C. William Hunt- agers and the Rifle Club. Tl;te better. The cup \became\ the per- having been act.ive Nazis, a rating of the Union of South Africa send- the 'basis for the best group ley. The three top seniors who procedure for nominating three manent possession of the frater- which usuall)T :pars them fvom pub- ing troops to defend democracy in he arrived at the college last year; haye been honored are Harold R student members to the. pormitory nity winning it three times ... lie posts. We understand you can't: Eorea while the :South Africans· Heath, James J. LaForest, and Discipline Committee, to work in The Berg cup was awa1·ded for teach irt the 'United States jf you are putting into effect a policy at· ----IO--- William E. Sollicito-. Out of a class conjunction with the dean and the first time for the year 1914-15. don't agree with certain people, home of forcing 300,000 Indians Dorm c. ommi•ttee, of '56 the first fourteen proctor on disciplinary cases, was Since then it has been awarded 36 why the cha.ngE of heart in Ger~ into a ghetto-like existen<!e. To the. mem,bers are engineers. clarified by the turning over of times. It was withdrawn during ma:ny? . Asian point of view, American as- Proctors s· et·e·ct·ed NO STUDENT speaker has, as' the power of appointment to the the war years., 1941-5. Nine cups Ito 1(:. ¥ sistance to French force:s in Indo- yet, been designated for the com- Executive Co·mmittee of the lltU- have become the permanent pos- \The Plays f;lu!> Thing\ by Fer- China is an aid to the atemped G c mencernent exercises. However, it dent council. session of its winners. The owners M lna; IlLli b rese ted by resusmawn tof imperia:iisms in Rowan J. Coyle,. eorge . Car· has been announced by pr. Carter ---o~--- f . th d f i . enc o r ' . . e p n ter and Herbert E. Rie have been Davidson that the commencement o cups, tn e or er o w nnmg, the Schenectatl;y <Jivic Players aU (Continued on Pag-e 4) named to the new Dormitpry Board address wil !be delivex:ed by Dr. are: The Pyramid Club (now next week. 'Tile female. lead, -~-~o·~· -~- formed at the suggestion of the Livingston W. :a:ouston, President Ph;lOS Hold Theta Delta Chi>; Delta Phi; Louise Wooc:Iru:ft; will be remem.- . dean with the approval of the Stu- of R.P.I. II Alpha Gamma Phi (now Delta bered by llnion students for her. c c d dent Council. The three students The graduation date has been T b . Chi), two successive cups; Delta exceilent acting in 1\lolhar's \Lil- arry . ar . s each represent one of the three moved up from aSturday, .January· ;. ght De ' ate Phi; Phi Sigma Kappa; and Kappa liom\ with tl!e Mountebanks last maJ'or dormitories on campus. II Nu, three successive cups. ·h ,... • -n1 h i 1 · 27, to Friday,. JaJ:+uary 26, at 10:30: yeall', T e vAVl~ .cay om;e s o- c • c 'I THREE new junior proctors a.m. The Sunday chapel service DR. BERG died in 1941 a:nd the cated on North: Charch street. . rieS ou·nci have also been selected for service on January 14 will be considered The Philomathean Society is con- last cu'p he provided for was ~ IF- ~ in West Coliege. They are Carter, the baccalaureate for the class. tinuing its heavy program of in- awarded this fall. The Graduate Morris M, · Cpho, city sanitation The Inter-Fraternity Council David Plat;t and Walter J. Gruen. tercollegiate debates in two con- Council, the incorporated body of engineer, ]JrOJ>'OBed. to the city passed a motion at its last meeting The new board is to have dis- tests with Utica College this week-. Union Alumni, has decided not to council a new citjT code to ·regulate ,aSking the students of Union Col-· ciplinary and advisory functions. Record Ready end. The debates will take place continue the· award, for many the .preparatio!L, handling and sale lege to carry their .student activi- It will operate under the super- · at 10:00 a.m., December 2, in the reasons. First, too many cups of meat and neat products. Cohn ties card as a means of identifica- vi'sion of the college's discipline The Freshman Record was ex- English Reading Room in Bailey have disappeared. Secondly, for also suggested a citizens commit- tion while. attending partres at the committee, and Jack J. Fischel will pected to reach campus today Hall. The topic under discussion the past few years one group has tee lncludin~ representatives from various fraternity hous.es. The ad as a liaison between the board .from the publishers and should will be, Resolved: That the Non- consistently won, and interest in the locai meat industry and the, council felt that .considering the and that committee. be ready for distribution by the Communist Nations Should Form a the award has co-nsequently de- city health IJDmmittee study the numerous articles tha.t have been ---o·--- beginning of nex:t week, accord- New International Organization. clined. (Kappa Nu won the award problem and :formulate the new, stolen from the fraternities some c - T • h .ing to Paul P. Carbone, editor. IN THE pre-Thanksgiving pro- for 7 of the last 8 years>. Finally, code. , attempt should be made to limit oncert. 0filg t The Record, containing pic- at Oswego State Teachers and most important, were the in- If. ¥. :io the open houses to inemoers of the tures of al !members of the Union participated in four equities of the system of awarding Local Qernoot•a.tll· and Republi· Union College family. . .Q.peDS SeaSOD cla$s of 1954 .• will be available debates. Of the two formally the cup. For example, adding one cans spent a total C~f $30,175 .this GEORGE SOUiiAN, chairman of to fre!;!hmen at no cost. Upper- judged contests, Union won one tenth of a point for each four year on elections ru:ul candidates. the fail prom committee, repo·rted The Union College Glee Club will classmen wishing to obtain and lost one; the loss carne when point man gave a great advantage The Republica.ns spent $1'1, 797 ·58; that the IFC sponsored dance made ·make its first appearance of the copies o·f the p\lblication may a point tie was broken by the judge to the larger fraternities. the Demo~rats., $12,377.20. · a. profl't of •250.77. It was pointed current season at 8:30 to-night in purchase them at the student in favor of Oswego. F th th G d t - --- · \' \- · I The Ph.ilomathean's schedule for or cse rf>asons, e ra ua e o· ~ut that since the council has a Memorial Cuapel. The annua eon- activit1'es ·office. C · '1 h b t't t d th S d P • D v t t · next week in. eludes debates with ounc! as su s 1 u e e new · 't th S h tad Syracuse University, Hartwick Col- aw r · lS ope . a IS new tu e . nt ! ·riZ' e· ' ' a·y debt o' f 185 dollars, owed . to the cert will be presen ed hiS year as a d It . h d th t th' Student Tax committee, the IFC a joint affair W!. h e c enec Y u 0 p }i c 1 d d b t b f th L' award will remove the inequities A d P blished will not have a large amount of Women's Chorus. Both groups are nion 0 0 ases ege, an a e a e . e o-re e IOns of the old one,' and revive interest war · S' : \J. . ' . monies to ca:rry it thro11ghout the .under th~ direction of Mr. Robert . Club of Schenectady. in. the fraternity scholarship prize. Dean c. w. Huntley announced year. A d,etailed report of the -Campbell. ow Im· provement 0 that the followlp.g prizes will be prom expenses will be printed and UNION COLLEGE Students are · · ·c· • · awarded on pr'ize day this spring. distributed in the near future. invited to attend free of charge. The three Union College Students. oming Events Students Will '-e· adv 1 'sed at a later· · Soloist with the Union group is ... The council, on President DUn- who contracted Polio earlier this F N Ch ) date wl}en a.pplication for the can MartaJn's suggestion, voted to Frederick Co-nklin. are improving from current Of 00n ~ ape S awards may be submitted. give their support to t'he Delphic reports. THE PRIZES' t}lat will be given s.ocietv in sponsoring a Parent·~ N· amed +.o Counci·l· Some noon-day chapel speakei·s \ t HUBERT R. NADIN, '51, who and their subjects have been noted are: Day. Jay- N. Conn· and Gerald. A. contracted a severe case during on the School calendar of events. Allen (English) $1·00 (40,30,30) ---•o--- the ummcr Is· · t d t b 100 ( 50 30 20) t · s , now repor e o e On Januat·y 5, 12, and 19., Pro- Allison (Debate) , ; . Shapiro have been named o re- · 1 1 • ff 1 h Ar<'hilial.d (Hpmanities). 100 f.·. ax c. ommi\~tte·e h B d f M recovenng sow Y 111 a Bu a 0 os- fessor Harold E. Blodgett will lee- . 0 . present t e oar o anagers on ·r 1 H · t d t t t Blatchford ·tDratorical) 10 PI a· e IS expec e o re urn o ture on Georg· e Bernard Shaw, and Catlin (Colle~e·tea.ching) 1000 the Student Council. h 1 • th f 11 Coulter (Debating.) 100 THEY WILL finish out the un- sc oo m e a , on January 7 Professor Cadman Dagget (Character) c 75 Cushions Games expired terms of Wolfgang J. Royal J. Ribley, '52, was also i Hislop will talk on \The Birth of Fuller (Chemilltr}!) 60 ((3 5 ~;30) 1 R!'erner and Davi'd Platt, both of stricken during the summer vaca- Union College. Goodriclr-Dua.na (Debate) 80 •·,30 . T c t h · · Griffith · (Psyclt(}log-y.) 2 5 The Student . ax .ommi tee · as whom have dropped o-ut of the. tion. He was moved from Sche- The Psychology department will Heck-Ste!ngut purchased a suppiy of plastic air councii. The other council repre- nectady to a Haverstraw hospital have three lectures, each dealing <(lovern)Y!ent)' . 100 cushions to be sold at Union bas-· sentat'ive· .from· t·he· Board of Man-· recently and is recovering nicely. sttidying for exams. On lngham (Social Studies) 100 k tb 11 thl b. HAROLD F B. UCKBE. E J '5.4 . . Warner King- e a : games s year y me:m· agers is Walter M. Stroup. • ' .r., 'i 4, Dr. Clifford Pearce will Contest Atmouneed The Concordiensis, in con- junction with the Chesterfield Cigarette Company, is sponsor- . ing a basketball score guessing . contest for Union games this year. The contest begins this week for the Middlebury game Tues- day night. Students may ·enter the contest by guessing the final score of the game and gettin.g their entries to the Concordy office by 4:30 Tuesday afternoon. Shapiro Chosen (Engineerin-g)· 100 bers of Aipha Phi Omega. Profit· ----o--~ contracted a m\ld case of the dis-i on \The Problem of Studying Pullman (Classics) 75 from the sale will be divided be\ ease early this fall in his first for Examinations. Professor Er- .Gerald Shapiro has been ap- Pullman (Engineering) 75 · A. PO d th t d t t Ph · ' t t 1l·.r t I t II Aft t t t ' V Richmond (.Ji'ine Arts) 50 tween · an e s u en ax yslCIS S 0 tu.ee wee ts a co ege. er rca men wm on Schlicteh will lecture on poinled Senior Clnss Secretary •by Ridl)ilond (M:usi~) 50 ,.fund The next meeting of the Physics' by Dr. Arony and confinement in: \Techniques of Studying for Ex- class president, oward Simons. Smith (H!storr,> 100 THE TAX committee also ap• ·society will .take place at 7:30 . Schenectady hospital, he has ·been· aminations\ on J'anuary 9, and Dr. Shapiro, who ran .for the offiee ~~:~J~\? r(~~~.t{~~)hr) ~~~ proved an appropriation of $68 to p.m .. on Wednesday, December 6, released to his home in Dolgeville .Clare Gi·aves e;n Jan.uary 11 will last spring, was a.ppointed to fill Van Orden tFreshmim the Union College Cltrlst!an As- in room 202 of the Physics build- and is now almost fully recovered. have as his topic \The LPnrning . 1 . the vacancy l!'ft when sE>c-retary English) · 100 : sociatlon tp attend a c()nfere:nc.e In ing. :il.:lr. Fleischer will discuss The He, too, is expected ba~lt at school Derived from Stuqying for and Wolfgang Riemer was called Into ~~~~S:er Bp~~s ·Ohio beginning on December 27, Milky Way. . in the fall. Taking Examinations.\ the armed forces.

1950 With over renee, their In on. chine, eight won as win at- 1,(}()0 this Around Town Founded at Dnion College in 1877 The marines wU1 recruit a special platoon from the capital district area which will go through train- ing camp as a. single unit, it was atmounced this week. The new plan is an answer to complaints of veterans that they were separated from their friends upon enlisting. Vel. 78, No. 9 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1950 PRICE 10 CENTS 1(. #/o :(. Fabian Theaters will pay their patrons bus fares home as a con- tribution to the drive to put the Schenectady RaHway company on its feet. The free rides home wiH start tonight and be in effect very evening from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. B1.c1s dders going downtown between 6 and 9 p.m. will receive coupons on request. When, the coupons have been stamped by the theater cash- iers, they ·wm be good for the ride homeward. Fabian Theaters include Proctor's, Strand, Plaza, Erie, and Strand. 1(. #/o :{. AT THE THEATERS: Pr•octor's: \American Guerrilla in the Philippines\ with Tyrone Power and Micheline Prelle. Also playing, \The Fuller Brush Girl\ with Lucille Ball and Eddie Al- bert. State: Abbott and Costpllo \In the F·oreign Legion\ and Diana Lyrm in \Peggy''. Erie: Dana Andrews, Gene Tier- ney, \Wllere the Sidewalk Ends\. Rivoli: Through Saturday, \Fallen Idol\ and \Champagne for Caesar\. Lincoln: Thr·ough Saturday: \Sum- mer Stock\ with Judy Garland. ¥ #/o :{o New York state 1951 license plates will go on sale Monday at motor vehicle bureaus and county clerks offices. Two plates will be issued this year. The '51 plates, orange with black letters and num- erals, will carry the motto \The Empire State\ at thP bottom. ¥ :(. :(. Vlstor!! to Saratoga thpse days will find that the pri<'P of hott!Pd b!'er is up a nickPI. Thl' H)-cent glass of bt>N will rPmain, hut Pach taproom will de!'ide for itself whether or not the glassPs gpt smaller. Thousands of former Nazis are back at their jobs teaching school in Western Germany, according to news reports. Most of them were small fry, \nominal Nazis,'' those ·who joined the party to retain their jobs. But in one arPa, 47 teachers were once convicted of having been active Nazis, a rating- which usually bars them from pub- lic posts. We understand you can't teach in the United States if you don't agree with certain people, why the change of heart in Ger- many? \The Play's the Thing\ by Fer- enc Molnar will be prpsented by the Schenectady Civic Players all next week. The female lead, Louise Woodruff, will be remem- bered by Union students for he•· excellent a<'ting in Molnar's \Lil- liom\ with the Mountf\banlis last year. The Civic Playhouse is lo- cated on North Church street. :(. :(. :{. Morris M. Cohn, city sanitation engineer, proposed to the city council a new city code to regulate the preparation, handling and sale of meat and meat products. Cohn also suggested a citizens commit- teo including representatives from the local meat industry and the city health committee study the problem and formulate the new code. Local Demoi'i'at.'l and Republi- cans spent a. total of $30,175 this year on elections and C'andidatps. The Republicans spPnt $17,797.58; the Democrats, $12,377.20. ----0 --·---·· Student Prize Day Awards Published Dean C. W. Huntley announced that the following prizPs will be awarded on prize day this spring. Students will be advised at a later date when application for thP awards may be submitted. THE PRIZES that will be giYen are: Allen (English) $100 ( 40,30,30 l Allison (D'ebate) 100 (50,30,20) Archibnlrl (Humnnitie•l 100 Blatchford tOratoril'al) 100 Catlin- (College teaching) 1000 l'oultet· (DPhnting) 100 Non- Violence Is Answer to -wars By Jerome Klein . As a featur~ of I~eligious Emphasis Week, Dr. Eddy Asu·\·a~h~u.n, lnchan author, theologian and educator, has been visJtmg on campus. The overall theme of his class- room lectures, chapel tall\s and seminars has been \Is There an AlternatiYe to Wa.l\'. DB., EDDY Asirvatham's answer r to the question of the week is N p found in the tool of non-violence ew rexy successfully tltilized by Ghandi. The prevention of war is possible if the following of Ghandi's pro- positions could bP put into active practice, \Cultivation of a genuine passion of truth, and justice; a bold determination to breal1 the VlCious circle of aggression by means of medication, negotiation, means of mediation, negotiation, arbitration and adjucation; culti- vation of humility: and pnpara- tion to inflict self suffering\. The use of non-violence by Ghandi was not a passive in:;tru- ment but a dynamic and construc- tive one. By placing all his cards on the table, showing nothing to be up his sleeve, Ghandi succeeded in revealing to his opponents the wrong that the opponent 11·as per- petrating. DR. ASU~VATHAI\1 call,; at- tention to the fact that it h; a mis- conception to believe that Asians are a lethargic people given over entirely to fatalism. The Orient, according to the lecturer, is pul,;at- ing with new life and a renaissance has occurred since the turn of the century. As prerequisites for the estab- lishment of peace in Asia, the author maintains imp 'e ria I ism, colonialism and racial inequality must be liquidated. The Asiatic looks questioningly upon the action of the Union of South Africa send- ing troops to defend democracy in Korea while the South Africans are putting into effect a policy at home of forcing 300,000 Indians into a ghetto-like existence. To the Asian point of view, American as- sistance to French forces in Indo- China is an aid to the atemped resusc1a10n tof imperialisms in (Continued on Page 4l ----0 Carry Cards Cries Council The Inter-Fraternity Council passed a motion at its last meeting asking the students of Union Col- lege to carry their student activi- ties card as a mPans of identifica- tion while atter.ding partl'es at th~ vact ic.us ft aternity honsPs. Tb<' council felt that considPI\ing the numerous articles that hn.vP been stolen fl'Dm the fratPrnities some attempt should be made to limit the open houses to members of the Union Coi!Pgc family. For Actors Richnrd G. Heimann was elected PrPsid<'nt of the Mc·untebanks at their membership mPeting last Wednesday night. George Carter and Willtam Brandow were elected to the theatre group's executive council. The Mountebanks then approved the play \Glass Man- agaric'' as their winter production. HEIMANN replaced Robert Keia- fant who had to resign due to aca- dPmic pressure. The new president who plans to make the theatre his professio-n desgined the sets for the Mountebank's last play, \Light Up The Sky'' and portrayed its male lead. HPimann said he felt quite oonfident that the Mounte- banl\s are well on their way to one of their most successful production years. Cartet· and B1·andow were Scene Technician and House Man- ager r·espectively for the fall play. Tt>nn\\\''e Williams' Pulitzer Prize play \The Glass ManaFerit>\ was sclrdf.'d by the general mem- bership as the next production. ThP play Pnjoyed a long Broadway run and has since been made into a successful motion picture. The cast has not yet been selected. PROFESSOR DONALD Jones, advieor to the Mountebanks. stat~d at the meeting the the player·s had the h:o.sis for the best group sinct> he arrived at the college last year. ----0 Dorm Committee, Proctors Selected Rov\'an J'. Coyle, George C. Car- ter and Herbert E. Rie have been named to the new Dormitory Board form<:>d at the suggestion Qof the dean with the> approval of the Stu- dent Council. The three students each repte~Pnt one of thP three major dormitories on campus. THREE new junior proctors have also been selected for service in W€st College. They are Carter, David Platt and Walter J. Groen. The new beard is to have dis- ciplinary and advisory functions. It will operate under the super- vision of the college's discipline committee, and Jack J. Fischel will ad as a liaison bl'twecn the boarc'l and that committee. ----o---- Concert Tonight Opens Season Accident Victim Plaque Replaces Traditional A ward The Berg- Cup, traditional symbol of scholastic attain- \ ment for fnti.emities, was awardee! this fall for the last time. In its place the Graduate Council will av.;ard a plaque i for scholarship, undet· dmsticaUy revised conditions. ' ( x Stephen P. Brmvn Skeller's Sales Up <!l THE NEW system was proposed, as a three year experiment, by Dean C. William Huntley and Miss Francis Travis, Recorder. Any social fraternity consisting of 10 or more members and recognized by the college is eligible. To that fraternity which achieves the greatest improvement in average index over the year will be award- ed a plaque which becomes the permanent possession of the win- ner. Stephen P. Brown. 18. a sopho- The most pertinent item mor·e at Union Colll'ge, and his 1 of business covered at the father werP killed in the Long · · 1 d t Island Tmin wreck en Wednesday 11~eetmg Of t 1e StU en COUll- night, November 23rd. Steve wa~ Cll last Tuesday was the com- retu\rning home from college for prehensive report submitted t~e Thanksgiving vacation. He and by Andl'eW c. DeHont con- hiS father, who mel !11m at Penn- · tl f' ' 1 t t sylvania Station, were in the last cernmg le InanC!a S a US car of the 6:09 to Hc>rnpstead, Lon~ of the rathskeller. Island. The 6:13 ran thl'Dugh the THE REI'ORT showc>d that the stop signals, frashing ir.to the 6 09, rathskell~r ~ales have incrc·ased killing 78 people and injuring sev- from $535 to $681 over a period of era! hundred others. five weeks ending l\'ov. 1. Inverse- BRO\\'N was a member of Phi ly, the percL·ntage of bl'et' sales has Sigma Delta Fraternity and a pre- dPct·eased to eleven prcnt of thP med majo-r. He leaves a mother total sales. The gross income of and sister of Baldwin, Long Island. the rathsltellf.'l' at the prPsent time A nwmorial service sponsutL·d by \ S~.9sn. but aftn all ('Xpt·n~<'s plu~ his ftaternit:y brothers will be con- thl' purchase of a UPW refri;,;erator ducted in his honor at noon \\'•.•d- w<·n· deduct<'d, a net ]J!Ofit of $111 nesday in Old Chapel. All mem- 1 •'mained tn be add<'d to the sur- hers of the collt·ge community are plus. invitetl to attend. The stUdL·nl body decided to hold Honor Given Top Seniors Stage appointments for the Janu- ary graduation have been an- nounced by Dean C. William Hunt- ley. The three top scniurs who have been honored arc Har·old F. Heath, James J. LaForest, and William E. Sollicito. Out of a class of 56 the first fourteen ranking members are engineers. NO STUDENT speakct· has, as yet, been designated for the com- mencement exercises. However, it has been announced by ;Dr. Carter Da.vidson that the commencement address wil !be dC'Jivered by Dt·. Livingston W. Houston, President of R.P.I. The graduation date has been moved up from aSturday, Januat·~; 27, to Friday, January 26, at 10:30 a.m. The Sunday chapel service on January 14 will be considered the baccalaureate for the class. Record Ready The Freshman Record was ex- pected to reach campus today from thC' publishc>rs and ;<hould be ready fot· distribution by the beginning of r..ext week, accord- ing to Paul P. Carbone, editor. a \\Vint \\'rl'kend\ und•·t· the auspicPs of the student council, and tht! dates fur· thi:; affair wert· set by the C'ouncil for th•· 23, 21 and 25 of Febt uar v. It will be held in place of the \\'inter Prom and will feature social activities similar to those of the Prom weekends. THE COFSCIL approved the constitutions of the Board of Man- agc•rs and the Rifle Club. The proC'edure for nominating- three stud,·nt memb,•rs to the Dormitory Discipline Committe,•, tci work in conjunction with the dean and proctor on diseiplir.ary cases, was clarified by the turning over of the power of appointment to the Execuli\'e Ccmmittee of the JtU- dent council. ----0--- Philos Hold Tight Debate The Philomathean Society is cor.- tinuing its heavy [Jrogram of in- tNcollt>giate debates in two cc n- teBts with Utica CollegC' thiB Wl'ek- end. The debates will take plncP at 10:00 a.m .. December 2, in the English Readin~: Room in Bailey Hall. The topic under discussior. will be, Resolved: That the Non- Cummumst Na.tHii1S ;::ihould Foun a NPw lnte1·tmtionai Organization. The purpose of this new award is to stimulate and reward scholas- tic achievement in fraternities, and to perpertuato the name of Dr. Ernst Julius Berg. Dr. Berg, an expert mathematician and electrophysicist, and associate of Charles P. Steinmetz, was head of Union's Electrical Engineering De- partment i'or 28 years. When he retired in 1940, Dr. Berg was made Professor Emeritus by the Board of Trustees. IN 1913, when he first came to Cnion, Dr. Berg founded the Berg Scholarship. His purpose In creat- ing this pliZc was to award fra- ternity achievement in. scholarship and to stimulate further achieve- ment. The cup was \awarded at the opening of the fall term to that fraternity or Iil{e organization whose scholarship during the pre- ceeding year was the highest.\ In calculating the average index of each fraternity, Dr. Berg provided that one-tenth of a point should be added to the average index for each man in the fraternity who ~ttained an index of four point or better. The cup \became\ the per- manent possession of the frater- nity winning it three times\. The Berg cup '\Vas awarded for the fir,;t time for the year 1914-15. Since then it has been awarded 36 times. It was withdrawn during the war years, 1941-5. Nine cups have become the permanent pos- session of its winners. The owners of cups, in the order of winning, are: The Pyramid Club (now Theta Delta Chil; Delta Phi; Alpha Gamma Phi (now Delta Chil, two successive cups; Delta Phi; Phi Sigma Kappa; and Kappa ;..;u, thr·ee successive cups. GEORGE SOUHAN, chairman of th<' fall prom C'ommittee, npcrted that thP lFC sponsored dance made a profit of $~~0.77. It was pointed ·out that since the council has a debt of 185 dollars, owec.l to the Student Tax Committee. the IFC will not h'we a large amount of mc·nies to carry it throughout the year. A detailed report of the prom expPnses will be printed and distributed in the ncar future. Th€ Union College Glee Club will malH' its fir·st appearance of tht> C'Unent season at 8:30 tonight in Memorial Chapel. The annual con- ce!'t will be pres~nted this year as a joint affair with the Schenectady Wom.~n·s Chorus. Both g-roups are under the direction of Mr. Robert CnmpbPll. UNION COLLEGE Students are invited to attend free of charge. Soloist with the Union group is Frederick Co·nklin. The Record, containing pic- tures of al !members of the Class of 195-1, Will be av~1i1nbk to freshmen at no cost. l.'pp<'r- classmen wishing to obt:lin copies of the publication may pmchn.se th<>m at tlw student acti\·ities office. IN THE pre-Thanl\sgiving pio- gTam at O:;wego State> Teachers Cc liege, L'nion participated in four dPbatPs. Of the two formally judged contf.'sts. l'nion won one ard lo~t on<': the Jo~s camP \\hPn a point tiP was brnkt>n by th•• judge in fflVOI of OswPgo. The Philomathe>an·s schedule for next week includes debat<'S with Syracuse University, Hartwick Col- uni •Oll Poli·o Cases leg<'. and a debate beforP the Lions Club of Rehenectady. Show Improvement . 0 , __ DR. BI<~RG died in 1941 and the last cup he pt·ovided for was awarded this fall. The Graduate Council, the incorporated body of Cnion Alumni, has decided not to contirue the awat·d, for many rC'asons. First, too many cups have disappear0d. SeC'ondly, for the past few years one group has <'onsist Pntly won, and in.tt>rest in the award hns N'nsequently -c!P- clined. 1 Kappa Nu won the award for 7 of the last 8 yenrsl. Finally, and most important, were the in- equiti<>s of the system of awarding the cup. For example, adding one tenth of a point for ench four point man gave a great advantage to th<' Jarg<>I' fratcrniti<'s. For thC'se r<·nson«. thP 11rn.duate Council has substituted the new award. It is hoped that this new award will removP thP inequities of the old one, and revi,•e interest in the fraternity SC'hoiarship prize. The council, on PresidC>nt Dun- can Martain's suggestion, voted to give their support to th<> DP!phi<' Society in sponsoring a Parent'\ Day. ----o---- Named to Council Ja-y N. Cohn and Gerald A. Shapiro ha·ve been named to re- present lhe Board of Managers on thr Student Council. The three union college studPnts Coming Events who contract<'d Polio earlier this F N Ch } year are improving from current or oon ape s reports. Hl'BERT R. NADIN, '51, who contracted a severe case during the summer, is now rE'pm·trd to be recovering slowly in a Buffalo hos- pital. He is expected to return to school in the fall. Some noon-day chapel speaket s and their :;ubjeds havc• been nctl'd on the School calendar of events. Contest Announced The Concordiensis, in con- junction with the Chesterfield Ctgarette Company, is sponsor- ing a baslretball score guessing contest for Uniu·n gam~s this year. Dag-?,\et IC'hnraeter) c 75 I•'uller (Chemistry J 60 Goodrich-Duane (Tiehate) R() rtriffith (P~y<·hology) 25 He~k-Stelngut 130,30) (50.~0) Tax Committee Cushions Games The Student Tax Committee has purchased a supply of plastic air cushions to be sold at Union bas- ketball games this year by mem- bers of Alpha Phi Omega. Profit from the sale will be divided be- tween APO and the student tax fund. THEY 'WILL finish out the un- expit·ed terms of Wolfgang J. Riemer and DHvid Platt, both of whom have dropped o-ut of the counciL The other council repre- sentative from the Board of Man- agers is Walter M. Stroup. Royal J. Ribley, '52, was also stricken during the summrr vaca- tion. He was moved from Sche- nectady to a Haverstraw hospital recently- and is recovering- niC\ely. On January 5, 12, and 19, Pro- fessor Harold E. Blodgett will lec- ture on George Bernard Shaw, and on January 7 Prof!'ssor Codman Hislop will talk on \The Birth of Union College. The Psychology department will have three lectures, Pach dealing The contest be!\ins this week for the Middlebury game Tues- day night. Students may enter the con test by guessing the final score of the game and getting their entries to the Concor·dy office by 4:30 Tuesday after-noon. <Government) 100 Ingham ISol'ial Stutlie~) 10() Wamer 1\ing (Engineering·) Pullman CCln•,ic•l Pullman 1 Engine~ ring) J1it-hmollt! IFine Arts) Rirhmonrl (Mu•i<') Smith ( Hi•tnry) Sternfeld ( l'hilo>OI>hY) Turn-bull 1 Phv~ii'S) Vnn Orden IFrcehman Engllsh) Peissner Jones 75 fiO 50 1110 100 10[) 10[) I3ool's 20 THE TAX committee also ap- proved an appropriation of $68 to the Union College Christian As- sociation to attend a conference in Ohio beginning on December 27. ----0 Physicists to Meet The next meeting of the Physics Society \\ill take place at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, December 6, in room 202 of the Physics build- ing. Mt'. Fleischer will discuss The Milky Way. HAROLD F. BUCKBEE Jr., '54, contracted a mild case of the dis- ease early this fall in his first weeks at colle;;c. After trcalm<>nl by Dr. Arony and confinement in a Schenectady hospital, he has bc>en released to his home in Dolgeville and is now almost fully recovered. He, too, is ·expected ba(!k at school in the fall. with studying for exams. On . • January 4, Dr. Clifford Pearce will Shapiro Chosen talk on \The Problem of Studying I · J for Examinations. ProfC>ssor Er- Gerald Shapiro has been ap- win Von Schlicten will Jcdurc on I pointed Senior Cln>'s Secretary by \Techniques of Studying for Ex- clal's pt·esidPnt, 0·ward Simons. aminations\ on January 9, and Dr. I Shnpiro, who ran for the office Clare Graves en January 11 will last \\ring, wus 11ppointed to fill have as his topic \The LPnrning the vacancy l<'ft wh<•n s·!'ct·etary Derived from Studying for and [Wolfgang Riemer was called into Taking Examinations.\ the armed forces.

i: ' :I 2 ,======================~-==--------------------.--------~~--~----~~ f My word! by Don c,.,g;., I O!nntnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative; Na.. tiona! Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. 1lldltor!al O!tlce, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered In t'he Schenec· tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription 1 Oc a copy: $3 year ·dell vered any- where ln the United States. SEXIOR BOARD JAY N. con:--: '52 ............................................... Editor DON M. CREGIER '51 ................ , ................ Associate Editor MARTIN SIF::C:EL '51 ............ , ..................... Associate Editor JOHN P. KE:-:NEDY '52 ................................... News Editor JERO!\lE lL\HT:-.:ER '5~ .................................. Page Edltol' MARVIN L. KOII:I: '53 . , ..... , , ............ , ............. Page Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR '52 ........ , ....................... Page Editor DONAI,D E. SCHWARTZ '52 ............................. Sports Editor ROBEHT C. S:\liTll '52 ............. , .... , , .... , , ....... Feature Editor ALAN K. RADACK '52 ............ , ..... , .... , ..•.• ,Business Manager ROBERT B. GHI;o.;DLl<:Y '51 ..... , ... , , ........... Circulation Manager JL':SIOR BOARD JOHN J. CASSIDY '53 ............ , .......... , , .Assistant Sports Editor JOSEPH K. HANDLER '52 ....... , ... , •.. Assistant Business Manager bEO KUPF.RSC'H::MID '52 ................ Assistant Business Managers MONROE SIL\'E£UlA!'f '52 ................... Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE \Y. LE\\1:\'E '53 ........ , ................ Exchange Editor GEORGE F. REDI:-:GTO:-: '52 ... , .... , .Assistant Cir<'ulation Manager FEATURE ST.AFF Thomas Donlon, Peter Fyfe, Alfred Klngon, Myron Komar, :rohn Moses, Robert Murray. PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF Alan For.man, John Stebbins, Harold Weisberg, Frank Skutsch. REPORTERS Irwin Barg, James Carmiehael, Alft·ed Goldberger, ·william Graves, Herhert Hil!Pr, ~1i<'hael aKhn, Jet·ome Klein, William Mohrmann, Martin Portnoy, David :Smith, Da.niel \\'t;iner. BL'SINESS STAFI<' James DeSorbo, Charles Little, Gerald Hoberts, Daniel Siesel, Hobert Silverman, Hyman Florence. CIRCULATION STAFF Robert Strand, Horace Van Voast, Tl10mas Davenport, George l'utmB;n, CUrtis Bates, David Steffanhagen, Culver Hayes. :J. Towel! Davis, William Winchester. \Any further irrelevant questions.?\ .. Meet Tom Christiansen Statistics in the New York Tizp.es' 1950 annual survey of conditions in higher education, released .last Monday, disclose a fact noted by Union College students thi!> fall for· the first time since the conclusion : of World War :[! and likely to bec1lme increasingly obvious in .the next few years, to wit, college enrollment in the United. States is dropping and dropping fast. The trend can be illustrated by merely comparing two figures; the peak 1948 college enrollment 'for the country of 1,!56,991, and this year's enrollment of only 601,753. THERE ARE three main reasons for this decline. In. the first place, the hump of Grs. from the Second World War was crossed this past June. There are .relatively few Grs yet in college, alth.uogh they ' are still monepolizing attendance· at graduate and professional: schools. Secondly, the birthrate during the deptession years of thee early 1930's was low as compared with that of the boom yeaTs of 1925-1929, and ' present-day college students are by now mostly of .the former category. The increased number of \war babies\ of the 1940's will net reach col- , lege age until 1957 at the earliest. And, thirdly, there is selective serv- ice, the effects of which were very slight this year but which may be . disastrous for some ·colleges in the near future. Along with Q;ecreased college enmllment, the Times survey found, there has been a steady increase in the average annual tuition fee, from $187 in 1941 to ·$281 this fall. The privately endowed colleges, which generally have higher expenses than publicly supported institu- , tions, have had to raise their tuition and other rates practically an- nually to meet correspondin~ly rising costs and, recently the drop in attendance. ANOTHER PROBLEM which has been facing colleges has been • building. The fact that normal building expansion was retarded during , ·the w<J,r yeA.rs, together with the extra wear and tear caused by military training units during the war a:nd hoards of education-hungry veterans afterwards, bas made new or renovated buildings for classrooms and dormitories a must on practically every campus. In order to carry out this expansion program, increase the size of the faculty to handle the temporary flood of GI:s, and provide for inflated everyday expenses, the independent college have had to turn often and hungrily to -alumni not as rich as in bygone days. STAFF CANDIDATES Marco Clayton, Roger Feinstein, William Graves, William Hall, Walter By Alfred Goldberger Hoffman, Charles Suter, Daniel Weiner, Michael Kahn, Alfred Gold- Tom Christiansen, a HELP student at Alnha Delta Phi The big question of the moment for the independent Amer.ican alma mater such as Union ha,s two parts, more closely related than might at first appear. Can it satisfactorily keep up the increasing competition with its state supported sister, and how i& it going to fit into the na- Uonal defense effort, especially the manpower coefficient? The mere stating of this double headed problem does not fully revea.l the close affinity which these two aspects bear to each otjler, although sinister innuendoes may perhaps be suggested. berger. 1:\ L------------------------l· is a serious minded fellow intent on getting his homework done. One may easily get this impression because Tom has Living 1950 been dateless since he5s been at Union. But that pleasant diversion keeps Tom to his studies and keeps his index up. Bookshelf Thanksgiving was observed throughout the country last Thursday, but it was celebrated on a somber note. Much of the country was in mourning. TOM IS HERE from Denmark,~-------------- where h€ jumped at the chance Since Tom h.as been here he THE TWENTY-FIFTH .HOUR ~·--------------- offered him to study here. He hasn't had a date. But living at a By Constantin Virgil Gheorghieu, came here via the HELP (Higher fraternity as he does, he has a Translated from the Romanian A Union College sophomore, on his way home for the holiday, was a victim of a tragic accident on the ill-fated Long Island Railroad which claimed 77 lives and injured hundreds more. A wild storm of near hurricane intensity buffeted the Eastern states and left in its wake a trail of death and destruction. The war news from Korea took a sudden turn for the worse and General MacArthur's well-laid plans for .Christ- mas dinner at home were shattered by an overwhelming force of Chinese Communists who, for the first time, took an active part in the fighting. Thanksgiving 1950 may well go down in history as one of the bleakest Thanksgivings in American history. The country, :plagued with internal difficulties, found itself in addition clinging to a precipice of peace· which was fast giv- ing way under the torrent of international pressure. And the Union student was squarely in the middle of the whole affair, as were dTaft-age men aJl over the United States. Once more the college student was unsu1·e of his future, unable to plan for tomorrow. Once more he forgot the triviata of everyday life and lost himhelf in far larger problems. Education for Lasting Peace) pro- chance to meet a lot of girls. By Rita Eldon gram and the Danish-American \When you've met one, you've met Reviewed by Norman B. Brown Foundation. them all,\ he says. It seems quite Since its recent publication in Although a liberal arts student, strange to him here in America Euro·pe 'The Twenty-fiftb Hour has Tom bas taken quite ·an interest that women are treated almost the brought sensational success to Con- in Geology, in which he hopes to same as men. '\Women are placed stantin ViPgil Kheorghiu, a hither- major. The lack of rocks and on too high a pedestal,\ he claims. to unsung Romanian poet and mountains in Denmark make it WHEN asked his impression of minor diplomat. His first novel, virtually impossible to study a America, he explained \I can best obviously autobiographical, has practical course in the subject. answer that when I return.\ His been heralded in Europe as a bril- \A WAY to get better marks in first impression of America, how- !iantly precise revelation o.f the cur- your subjects is to acquire an ever, was .the sight of the New rent European philosophical tern- active interest in them,\ Tom says. York skyline amid the gray per. Continental critics have en- \This idea will pay off in the long shadows of early morning. He was thusiasticany proclaimed it one of run. In fact, European teach€rs all quite impressed. the most significant productions of verify this fact, and it should His room is cluttered with the post-war Europe, if not of the cen- work wonders. So wrapped up is usual Joe College things; pin-ups, tury. Accordingly, it has been duti- he in this useful idea, Tom has photos, numerous books, pennants, fully translated into eighteen Ian- made it one of his hobbies. His etc. He has a very slight accent,, guages. It is not surprising then o,ther hobbies border on the intel- having studied English for 6 years that its American publication has lectual too. He is much interested in his own country. been so anx:ic:msly anticipated. in the study of any kind of Art Tom likes college. Moreover he UN Q U E S T I 0 N ABLY, Tbe and also in most types of Litera- hopes to stay here: He's impressed Twenty-fifth. Hom• is a distin- ture. These two hobbies seem to by the democracy in Union stu- guished work, deeply sincere, un- add to his overall seriousness. dent life. derstandably bitter, utterly pessi- mistic. f{owever, it is an uneven novel artistically. By way of a For Your Information The college responded with evident foresight. They scheduled for the week a discussion on \Is There An Alter- native to War,\ and invited Dr. Eddy Asirvatham as their FRIDAY, DEC. 1- International<®•>------------- Religious Emphasis Week guest. Dr. Asirvatham, too, re- Relations club, lecture by Dr. d d H th t d th . t th'nk b t Eddy Asirvatham, OC, 7:30 p.m.; Band rehearsal, Gym, 7:80 .p.m. plot, which is sometimes melodra- matic and too dependent on co- incidence, Gheorghiu presents the rather familiar ·but admittedly grim perso·nal tragedies of help- less, innocent men caught in the horrors of starvation, imprison- ment, torture, and slow death in the concentration camps of a war- torn and post-war Europe at West- ern Civilization's \twenty-fifth spon e . e gave e s u ents some mg o 1 a ou Union College Glee Club, fall con- THURSDAY, DEC. 7 - Daily as- and made them think-no mean task in itself.. cert with the Schenectady Wo- sembly Prof. Cadman Hislop, What Dr. Asirvatham had to say was worth listening man's Chorus, MC, 8:30 p.m., stu- \The Birth of Union College- to at any time. Many might e1aim he is an idealist, but, dent wives, faculty and staff will Part I,\ MC, noon ~first in a though his ideas are probably unworkable in this decadent be admitted to the concert on s:ries of two talks); Fraternity payment of 17 cents tax at stu- mght; N. Y. Alumni Dinner, world, he made no claims of success. He merely presented dent activities office. Hotel McAlpine, New York City, the ethical alternatives we must take to prevent another SATURDAY, DEC. 2-Basketball, 6: 8 0 p.m.; General Electric Per- armed conflict. Whether war breaks out 01' not, it will never Nott Terrave vs. Draper, Gym, sonnel and Employees Relations be too late to listen to philosophies like his. 8 p.m.; College Board examina- Group, Chern. Lab. 20 1, 7:30 p.m. Th ht t t . l'k th' · f ations in Physics bldg. FR~AY, DEC~ s.:-Daily assembly, OUg · a a ·1me 1 e lS lS a necessary orerunner SUNDAY, DEC. 3-Sunday service, recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh· to .action. We must maintain some hope in the face of Preacher, Dr. Eddy Asirvatham Choir rehearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; world pessimism, hope that on Thanksgiving 1951 we may of Madras, India, MC, 11 a.m.; Band rehearsal, Gym, 4:30 p.m.; look back on a successful year and give thanks-give thanks Organ: recital, Dr. E. A. Tid- Schubert Club concert, MC, 8:80 that the world learned its moral lesson and learned how to marsh, MC, 4 p.m. p.m.; Pre-law club, English read- live at peace. MONDAY, DEC. 4-Daily assembly, ing room, 7:30 p.m. Fraternity Scholarship The news that a Berg Cup will no longer be awarded to the scholastically highest ranking fraternity on campus may be met with mixed reactions. Although we feel that some honor should be bestowed on the group that comes out on top, no one can possibly find fault with the plan to present a plaque to the fraternity showing the most im- provement. In all fairness, the colleg-e should sponsor both awards. Whether the incentive of an honor actually plays any part in an individual's marks is a moot question. It will be interesting, however, to watch the indexes of the traditional doormats of the Berg Cup listings to see what effect if any the new system will have. ' ' An Opportunity The Dance Team Of Mildred and SATUJl:DA~', DEC, 9-U. S. Navy Gary, MC, noon; Mountebanks exa~matwn, Physics laboratory; movie, \A Letter to Three Wives,\ Vars1ty basketball, Union vs. OC, 4:30, 7 and 9:15 p.m.; Del- Williams at Williamstown, 8:80 phic society, Silliman hall, 8 p.m. p.m. ; Bo-ard of Managers, BH- 108, 7:30 p.m.; Dance band, Trophy room, 7 p.m. TUESDAY, DEC. 5- Service of worship, MC, 7:30 a.m.; Daily assembly, Prof. Harold W. Blod- gett, \George Bernard Shaw\- Part I, MC, noon., first in a series of three talks; Philadelphia Elec- tric Company interviews in Wells House; Art club, 00, 1 p.m.; Garnet pictures, OC, 7:30-10:30 p.m.; Interfraternity Council, BH-202, 7:30 p.m.; varsity bas- ketball, Union vs. Middlebury, Sf!NDAY, DEC. l~Sunday serv- Ice, preacher, The Rev. C. Victo·r Brown, Director of the Institute of World Affairs, Salisbury, Ct. (Former Chaplain of Union Col- lege, MC, 11 a.m. STUDENTS, please note: Clnist- mas vacation beg-ins after tbe last class on Tuesday, December 19th (Laboratory sections will be held as usual). Classes are resumed at 8 a.m. on Wednesday morning, January 3. ---01--- Best Letter ...... s;;;t~; Uni~~;~· M~n_:_. ·For Years See your agent on· Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 State St. near Ferry ' LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy P reseri pfions \The Colleget Students Drug Store\ Chemicals - Drugs Cor. NOTT TERRACE and - STATE STREET . hour,\ or, as Gheorghiu proclaims with annoying persistence, \the hour when manlrind is beyond sal- vation ... now.\ As the chief sym- bols of mankind Gheorghiu inb'O- duces Johann Moritz, · a. simple, naive, pathetic Romanian peasant, Traian Koruga, a brH!ia.nt, decided- ly lokuacious novelist, and Nora West, Roruga's wife and the only strikingly original character in. the novel. IT IS for its powerful ·denunci- ation of the Machine Age that The Twenty-fifth. Hour will long be · re- membered. Gheorghiu insists with a relentlessness that becomes per- suasive that man the ·individual, the human being, has been merci- lessly and systematically annihil- ated, not by totalitarianism, for this was but a sympto·m in ·West- ern Civilization's fatal illness, but by tecnocracy. Man is now the robot, enslaved by science, by capital, by the state, and by bu- reaucracy·. Western culture is dead, '!\he confirmed optimist need only read The Twenty-fl:fith Hour for the shocking confirmation of its tragedy. -:>.>-~»~~ ~ . %)0 oJrP- I ' ' • Watches. Jewelry Cl9cks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Co. State and Broadway ,_.,~~~~ Union students seem to be missing· out on a fine oppor- tunity to voice some of their many ideas and to get useful compensation in return. gym, 8:30 p.m.; AIEE <Schenec- tady Chapter) EE22, 8 p.m.; Lec- ture, A,uspices of The Evangelist Forum of Albany, MC, 8:30 p.m. speaker, The Most Rev. Raymond A. Lane, superior general of Maryknoll Foreign Mission So- ciety, tickets at door. A carton of Chesterfields has been awarded to Alan Stone for wi:iting the best letter of the month to the editor of the Concordiens!s. His letter appeared in the issue of · November 8. SAVE 10% •• -ON FOOD COSTS .. - .. SAYEIO% The Conco1ediensis has all year been sponsoring a \Letter to the Editor\ contest, in which the writer of the best letter of the month is awarded a carton of cigarettes. Yet the student mail received by this paper has been sparse. Let's get some of those verbal comments in print where they can ?o some good. Nothing makes us happier than student. mterest. WEDNESDAY, DEC. 6 - MEM- ORIAL SERVICE, OC, noon for Stephen P. Brown '53; Voluntary service of worship, MC, noon· Senior class meeting, EE22, noon; Long Island Lighting Company interviews, Wells House; Glee clt!b rehearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; EACH MONTI{ Chesterfields are awarded to the author of the letter received by the Concorfliensis which, in the opinion of the editors, best. reveals an Item. of campus in- terest. '·· NOTT RESTAURANT. AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 ''Meet and Eat at EDDIE,S\ 547 Nett St., opposite Green Gate Schenectadyi N.Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.50 for $5.00 .Tos~ !!:::==By This is ju ma!1Y prouc forth brand meral w1nr,, Allan R. mates as 1 year ambiti' ceived' no Tropp recei' school for satisfaction as far as finally com] test. The pl'inc vio'us athlet stop UnQ C£ softball te~ the fierces1 who took d most .person selflessly o·J Last Spr Coach Sam si ty footbal some menti1 \The Word, cory by Ja bit of a nov assistant n feated· 1949 'Was risking holding the of competiti to win a le· to play in~ To his was not im nee ... He w for his mo tluough th1 one vicious Abouttwc playing. wit for fun. 0 impressed l ability altl played the th'e position was invitd team and Hamilton. However, game of tl gate that alized'. Coa that, since would see a AI proceed· against thE had the tin We ll!ay timately up feel that tl ing. AJ T eolwnn is the best ch: teur, small Is a boy' for the fm a.n intense a. remarkal taveness. , cm·ned, ea< final gun~ it any spiri Professio: athletics, schools, bt In fact, se ents have engage in athletes, I column sta athletes lil teurism su soccer teaiJ Tbe lat,t, ceived too I pus, nor Gleich. Tl developing ers. That': Tl'O:PP was tioo sessil needs :sup}l That en· fleeted the look on a1 able. Let~: make it pl athletic pr GO~ STUDE~

ions by sion ring of this bhey and col- be und, fee, an- p in been· and nses, at jtion na- close \the sal- sym- mple, Nora only n the 1'he re- with per- for West- but the by bu- is need Hour of I ' Y. 3 ,. . ' . .LOSSln :Ga.rnet Hoopsters Open With Midds Intramural Op. timistic Swimmers Intramural basketball Will Around start ~ Monday and the F T h s h d I =:d~tea=~ :;~e;!:ra~:, ' 'ace '. oug.. c ·. e ' u e Dlrtlctor of Intramura.ls. By Bill Mohrmmm · Monday, De<:ember 4 By Irwin Bang Coach Pete Nistad's injury riddled quintet will inaugu- 7 .p.m.-Phi Sigma Delta vs. AI- Coach· Ray MuUane has a very good chance of turning rate their 1950-51 season Tuesday night in the Alumni Gym pha Delta Phi. out one of Union's best swimming tea-rruJ this season as 8 p.m.-Chi. Psi vs. Delta Chi. d th This is just about the time when .against Middlebury, a team which lost to Dartmouth last 9 ,p.m.-Kappa Alpha vs. ()ada- much of the squad is left from last year an .ere are many !!:::== By Don Schwartz :::.....:..... ma~y proud chests are thrusting ·week 56 ... 42. The hoopsters will enter the fray with a more vers. good prospects up from the undefeated freshman squad of forth brand new Bloclt \U\ sweat- depleted and weakened squad than the one which was ex-· Wednesday, December 6 the 1949-50 campaign. Mullane is very hopefui that the ~~~gra:~atft~=~~ pected to return after the completion of last year's schedule. 7 p.m.-~~f!'u. Sigma vs. Psi sophomores will plug the gaps left by g-raduation. these new letter . NOT ONLY . ·Is this year's cap·~ 8 .p.m ...... Phi Delta Theta vs. GONE from last year's team are • for they tain-elect, Dick Speidel, missing starting five. Hartwiclt, with more Theta Delta· cw. Captain John Berbert, a free-styler way that the p.ractice sessions have des e r v e d from the rlostter, but TodmMMlcazrelll, .scrimmages under their belt, used 9 ,p.m.-Delta Upsil~n vs. Half in the medl'ey and 400 yard relay, been going. The swimmers have their awards. But a reserve as year, an arv . ept only .seven men for the entire con- Pints. and Jim Courter, an outstanding been doing a;t it since the :fl.rst I Want to .men- ·and Stretch Batkiewicz, outstand- d D b 8 '~0 man. Paul Sharidan, one-half week of sc .... ool and they are be- . · t f 1 t , test and emerged on top 65-52, The Fri ay, ecem er = .u tion one fellow mg prospec s rom as year 8 neo- game was played at Cobleskill for 7 ,p.m.-Snerzigs vs. Phi Gamma of last year's fine diving team; ginning to hi.t their stride now. who has been ]Jhytes will not he present. These that town's Exchange Fund. Delta. Mike Samal, one of the best sprint- Evidence of tlJe coach's optimism lost l ·n the shuf- men would have added consider- II B e~s on· -the eam ·, Joe Tofel, who 1's the expanded. schedule which bl t th t th f th t Intensive drills for the varsity 8 p.m.-Faculty vs. Jo y oys. • fle of major let- a Y 0 e s reng · 0 e presen were begun this week after a 9 ·p.m.-Sigma Phi vs. Delta Phi. held the 200 yard breast stroke the team faces tbis year. Union is t e r winners,· aggregation. Thanksgiving recess, but th-ese All rema!nh 1 g voiley ball record for a long time; and Danny sure of a vcr-:; tough battle from r • res h m e-n nu- Meanwhile, the ·Garnet mentor is ·\'' b b afte 1 Id t ·\\ead are the other m:en who must ·the1'r new opponent, Williams. · d · th b t h 'th th have been seriously limited because games \-..ul e · ere r 1e a .vL t 1 mng e · es e can WI e 12·.'\5. Phi' Del.__ Tl 1 eta w 1 'II be -eplaced this season. Mead is For-dham and. CCNY have also met-al wlnr,ers, e ·a · · b t several of the players work or '\' \\' • · · t' availa le ma erial, and hopes to h 1 b . t t plmy Kappa s 1 ·P\n'ln. ·tomorrow H- 0 destined to become a sports lm- been added 1:.o the schedule in All an :R. Trupp, known .to m 1- 0 d t t' fi · t h b ave a s, causmg hem- o come w ., •• _ • f -r un a s ar mg ve m 0 s ape Y ro\-d oU:t this week's schedule mortal at Union. His 150 yard place of Brooklyn Poly and McGill. m ates as Rocky, realized a. our T ·d At th' t' th ·late or leave early. By the time ~· h ues ay. · IS Ime ere are h h hil PI·' s· Delta s S1'gma ·back stroke record can never be The sw 1 ·~mers ,,.1\11 see competi- y ear ambition thls Fall a11d e re- fourteen men out fo· r the uad· of t e Middlebury fray the oop- w e u. 1gma v · th ·~ \ 't. · sq 'I h d 't b't f Ph1' on Monday and Beta Eta >viped off the books, because e •t1'on in two h.~me contests before ceived' no public mention of 1 'th · f th t t · sters WI 1 ave ha qm e a 1 o . ~ · d - a\•ard f 1 ·om the Wl seven ° em no ye m con- practice, but some of the aspirants Upsilon vs. Delta Upsilon on event has been -increased t() 200 the Christmas recess. Tropp receive no •• . dition or injured. ek' yards as of this year. school for his deed, but his own Ray Pomer.oy and Cookie Sher- -are still not in condition and this Tuesday begin next we s pro- b B b satisfaction seems to be sufficient win who saw considerable service: hasn't been alleviated at all by the gram. Managers should consult Returning this year will e o . as f ar as he is concerned. He · fact that Nistad has had difficulty Lawrence's ofice for the rest of Diamond, current record holder •last yeare are on the disabled list, t t tl - h d 1 h'ch oncluded fo· r the 200 yard breaststroke, and ~inaiiv· con1peted in a varsity con,- ·p· orne \th b d kl d in getting enough men ou o 1eu sc e u e w 1 c ~ • roy WI a a an e an December 18. Gerry Geismar. They will probably test Sherwin with rib trouble. Jerry scrimmage. ' ---~-~-----~-~-----~------~-- , divide the butterfly duties between The pl'incipa;l extent of Ai's pre- O'Loughlin, another member of the , d theznselves. John Duffy, who vio'us athletic career was as short\ football squad, has not had ample Ba-sketball Seati··ng Plan Announce showed so much improvement last stop anQ. captain of his fraternity time to get in shape. Frank Chill- season, returns to take on the long softball team. He was probably rud is sidelined· with a strained Union wiH not play any of its home basketball games in distance events, 220 and 440 yards. the fiercest competitor, the guy tendon, and Ben Thelin has had a the Armory during the current season, with the possible ex- Roger Rancher will swim in the who took defeats the hardest and recurrence of a heel injury. ception of the R.P.I. game, Hal Wittner, Director of Athletics . shorter distances and diver Dick most .personally and victories most Two of the playmakers on the Johnson returns. selflessly of anyone in his group. team, Jim Carmichael and Bob announced today. ·COACH MULLANE also has a Last Spring, Al reported to ':l;'ighe are also <Ioubtful ·starters Because the Gymnasium seats~•.>--------------- Jot .of hope for Walt Gross, a con- Coach Sam Hammerstrom for var- .and their loss may have dire effects but 924 persons it will be necessary tickets at the entrance oil the verted backstroker; Frank Morgan sity football drills. This received' on the ef-fectiveness of Ule team. to apportion the tickets for games -SOUTH end of the lower balcony. and John Walsh, freestylers; and some mention in a column entitled, Carmichael fell downstairs just be- in accordance with past practice, 4. Ticket allotments in the vari- Bob Jarrett, a veteran diver. After \The Word,\ written for the Con- fore the initial .scrimmage with' which is as follows: 'ous categories will be held until missing part of last season, John cory by Jack Weiss. This was a Hartwick College and aggrivated 524 for students B:OO P:m. afte~ which time, unis- Isbister has returned and will be bit of a novelty as Tropp had been his knee cartilage, while Tighe 200 for students and their dates sued tickets .wrll be pool~d and-or valuable in almost any freestyle assistant manager o.f the unde- who was a big factor in the Fresh-. 30 for students and their wives _sold. on a f1rst come, f1rst serve event, feated 1949 football team and he men squad's undefeated season, is b Wei•ne· r Reiners and Howie Kloth · 70 for faculty as1s. was risking his comparative safety still recover-ing from aleg injury ---o--- will take over the lengthened holding the tees for the hazards incurred in an intramural football 100 for the -public M' a·kofski. Prat·sed backstroke duties. Bob Dorse and of competition. But Tropp wanted game. , Further qualifications with re- Dick. Stark are very promising to win a letter, and, even more so · THE STARTING quintet will be spect to this ticket allocation are Nationally famed sportscaster dash men. Guy Cooper, Pete Tom- to play in a game. centered around aggressive Dick as follows: Roy Shudt of WTRY recently said back, and Irwin Barg are also pros- To his disappointment, Tropp Davis, high. scorer last year, and 1. No reservatioru; will be ac- that in his belief, Sig Makofski, pective freestylers, up from the was not invited out for Fall prac- Spen Warmck who developed tre- cepted or tickets sold prior to any Union grad, and now coach at freshman ranks. Phil Metzger and tice ... He was not really surprised, m~ndously during the 1949-50 yea._r. of the games. Mont Pleasant High School, and Bob Dibble will be called on to fill for his most notable achievement Ntstad has ag ood rebound man !n 2 • Ticket distribution and sale Vic Hanson, Syracuse University the vacancy on the diving team. through the Spring had been- but Bob Murray and asmooth guard m ·n b · t 6 . 45 m hen there lumipary were two of the greatest MULLANE is ·satisfied with the kl d 1\la t . the person of Gene Schwartzman WI ·. eg~n !1 · p. · w . ' b · t h one vicious tac e of Te r m. and will also rely on Bill Kaznow- are prehmmary games sta~bng at basket all players tli1s coun ry as About two months ago, AI started . . 7:00 p.m. (These dates are Feb- ever known. 1· I playing- with the soccer team just ?kl and Bob Faubel for so_m~ serv-. ruary 7, 10, 17, 28). On the other \BOTH were born before their . ·. Exclusive at for fun. Coach Franz Gleich was rce. However, Kaskn?wskl ts con- nights (December 5, 16, 20, Febru- time,\ commented Shudt. \Had impressed by Tropp's goal tending stantly threat;ned wrth the recur- ary 21) when there is but one they come along today, their styles I 8 ' .l.l ~%ij\~ h d renee of a tnck knee. t' k t ff' ·n of play would have fitted perfect- ·.r..lf/oQJI;I,Ce. .,/(j,_· R~ . 1\\\) ability although he a never Perhaps the brt\g·htest spot of the game·4' the rc e o rce Wl open 0 M~\l 1 d th t t t mention t 7 5 l'T intO tOdS:y'S SO-Called fireman ~w ll[~ P aye e spor ' no 0 depleted squad is Glenn Kinns who a · p.m. . t~rne of basketball. They would \JfW th'e position, before. Finally, Tropp prom!'ses to provi'de some offensi've· 3. Students W.Ill enter and ob- \\ . . . JA'V Sl. lll 'td t t k t · 'th th have been outstanding players any- was inv1 o a e a np Wl e punch to the Garnet hoopsters. tain their tickets at the entrance 5 I' • d 'C t t • t 'th th t where in the world. Oddly enough, ter mg r1mme oas • rays team and he wen Wl . em o Kinns was hl'gh scorer on last on the NORTH end Oof the .lower H 'It t f when each of these stellar- cagers may be used as a Coaster ami on. year's Frosh and promises to con- balcony and upon p7ese':ta !On .? · chose a college, he selected one in However, it was in the final tinue this practice. In a scrimmage thei: Student .Athlebc T1cket. Will his home town. or Ash Tray game of the season against Col- against Hartwick College last Tues- be 1ssued th~1r own game ttc:ket \Makofski was a star at Schenec- the seal will not be affected ~;ate that al's ambitio·n was re- day, Kinns hit for 19 points in a ONLY. It w1l lNOT b~ po.ss1ble tady High before there were any by the heat of a eiga.rette Gr alized. Coach Gleich promised him losing~ effort for the Garnet. for one s~udent to obtam tickets 'Mont Pleasants or Nott Terraces. a douse of Old Granddad that, since he was a senior, he HOWEVER, Nistad was satisfied for an enbre group. Hanson starred at Syracuse Cen- A Perfect Csristmas Gift would see action in this game. And with thes bowing and substituted 4. Students with their dates or tral in Syracuse before playing for $4.50 Inc. Tax AI proceeded to play 20 minutes. freely during the contest in an at- wives, faculty members, and the ~~il~l ;o~r~a~n~g~e~.'~' :;;::;;;;;;::=::::::;;:::::::;::~=:;:;;;:::;:::::::;.:::~:;:~~ against the Red Raiders and he tempt to view his aspirants for the public wil !enter and obtain their had the time of his life. We D!ay have touched rather in- timately upon personalities, but we feel that this story is wortb. relat- ing. Al ~'ropp, as far as this colwnn is concerned, pel'Sonifies the best cha.racteristics of tl1e ama- teur, small college athlete. Here is a boy who has played stlictly for the fun of playing; both with a.n intense desire to win and with a remarkable lack of any vindic- taveness. As fa.r as he is con- CCl'ned, each, game ends with the final gun and does not carry with it any spilit of revenge. Professionalism is rife in college athletics, primarily in the big schools, but also· the small ones. In fact, several .of Union's oppon- ents have been known to actively engage in proselytization of their athletes. If there's ·one thing this column stands strongly behind, it's athletes like AI Tropp and ama- teurism such as he and the entire soccer team hits displayed. The latter group bas never re- ceived too much notice on this cam- . pus, nor has their coach, Franz Gleich. The latter is desirous of developing soccer and soccer play- ers. That's .one .re-ason .why .AI Tr·opp was always welcome at prac-, tice sessions because the sport needs .supporters if it is to S'llrvive. That entire squad has most re- flected the ideal small college out- look on athletics that is s& desir- able. Let's extend that feeling and make it prevail through our entire athletic program. GOOD SHOES FO.R STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton &: Hall X-RAY FIT'l'JNG ws state st.-Sh\ce 1~1t No Formal Complaints ••• in comfortable Arrow Formal Shirts No at:ruggle to go formal whel'l. you have Arrow dress shirts. They•re specially de- signed for comfort! You'll see the Arrow \Shoreham\ and \Mayfair\ at important proms throughout the country. And now at your favorite Arrow dealer's. •5.00 up ARR'O w SHIRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS \ Get Set For Holiday Festivities with Arrow Formals MAYFAIR-Has soft :Pique collar. bosom and cuffs and comfortable new low- alope collar construction. $5.00 SHOREHAM- Classie 1 'black-tie\ shirt with medium JJI>int collar, semi~ starched, pleated bosom and French cuffs. $6.50 NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STAlE. STREET FOR ARROW U N·l VE RSITY STYLES Now Open For Your Convenience • BRITE~~ WAY Laundromat Corner of Union & Bcn•re+t • Half ff.~u,r Service Clothes Com.pfete\Jy 'Dried .. ComFI ete 9-.lb. Bundle -- VVashed and :Dried 65c: s''\ GHou ~~ ~t\ • • ~ ALSO Cleaning and Pressing • 3 Dtry Servic:e • 24-He>ur Service 011 Request • #\LSO A Complete Service on Men's Dress and SpC>rts Shrist ;r;~ ... ..... ~ ~ ~ \~ l4QNily;'\ Only Three Blocks · and \ Three Minutes ' Away from Tile Campus ·• Senscational Savings in Tine and Money ·• YOIJR ONE STOP SER'fiCE CENTER 'I

OTis '~'· BRADLEY • .St·udent's· Poem. · Asirvatham Says D ' T w . ·Fr. e Cuts Otis T. Bradley, a life trustee ean s eam . zns. . 'e . . ~;m~n:~n~;:n~o~k·d;:dN;~, ~:. In A!tthology . Ahia.<?:::ina~::;o: ;:;e s~ventp C B . } d 1 t k th t 257 tU. dentS had Ob He was 55 years old. Bradley fleet to \neutrali2e\ Formo!lA is Dean William ... . unt ey announce as wee a . . ' s . . -' was also a member of the Board Word has been received through viewed by the Orientals as an lll.t- tained a T¥~int three i:hd. eX Or higher thUS g.aining Unlimited claSS !3Uts and a of Trustees of the New York . the courtesy of the National Poetry tempt to depose the de facto goV• .I.\~ }' St d t th 1 t b 1 1 udlt an extra Historical Society and president ernment Place O n the Dean\ s 1St. u en s. on . e lS e ow may a so a. ' - ·. of the New York State Bar . Association, publishers of an an- • bt d · t ht BEFORE peaee c~ pe obtained course free of charge -with the Dean's permission. Nine men 0 aine a s ralg ,Association. ' thology of the finest college poems, t:l:te mass poverty, illiteracy, ill• f 5 0 that Barry Tra,ub's \An Enigma\: health and civil war rampant A index 0 • • an average of 3, or above, but are· was selected for publicatio.n from . throughout ASia must be elimi- ( Marking period ending- •' 1 5 h equired · · th · d · s ith not carrying the · · ouvs r · thousands of entries. · nated. Dr. As1rva am recommen s November ll, 1950 > Howard C. Miller, Richard F. Mil- Skorupski, Jr., David 1 · m ' for a norma•! schedule. They are a· universal Marshall 'l:\lan eliml• CHARLES D. ABBA, Peter R. ler, Robert J. Miller, Howard S. Eric H. Smith, Jack D. Smith, excused from the absence rule: TRAUB, a sophomore, wrote the· nating the military provisions; to Agnew, Nathaniel B. Allan, Marl- Modlin, Donald J. Mokskl, Thomas Floyd E. Snyder, William E. Sol- Alan G. Blue, Leon M. Bundy, five-line poem in his fveshman. year be administered J:\y the United ano Allende, Elmer E. Antonsen, I. Moran, Robert W. Morgan, Gar-· lecito, Geo·rge G. Souhan, Leonard Dav·id E. Closson, Savl W. ·Clough, and entered it to the National. Nations to put the nations of the Irwin S. Barg, Norman· Beck.er, rett W. Murphy Robert F. Mur- A. Staskelunas, Charles D. Stew-. H ld F H ath Jr George I ld th · conomic feet As Arthur S. Beller, Aron M. Bern- ray, Jr., ~osari~ Negri, John M. art, Dante Stirpe, Arthur M. ~t~ck-. L~~on, ~JoH~ H. Ist~om, *Jame~ Poetry Association this year; He ;orfinafnpro~~si:ion the we~tern stein, Norman C. Blais, Ea1·vey L. Newton, Armand N. Nirdlinger, man, pouglas E. Stolberg, Wtlham. H. Scott, Allison Y. Taber, Arthur is a member of Kappa Nu Frater- world must .give up the idea of Blass, David B. Blum, Nelson J3ots- Arthur L. Oldendorf, *Gerald 'E. R. Stoll, Jackson S: Stroud, Fre~- M. vash, Jo·hn . F. Waldvogel, 'nity. ' determining what is ·right for Asia. ford, Richard A. Brady, Allan C. O'Loughlin,· \Donald E. Olsen, erick J. Stryker, Richard J. Sullt- *James E. Welch, Richard Wagner, Braemet•, Donald M. Braverman, Walter L. Pelham, Frank A. Piet- van, William S. Szypula, *Anthony Robert Aiken Louis G. Batkiewicz, Raymond W. Brown, Harold A. ropaoli, Richard H. Pollen, Martin P. Tartaglia, Willard G. Taylor, Jr. William H. / Campbell, Josephine . Burnham, William G. Bm,ns,. Leon Portnoy Ralph E. Prusok, George HARRY C. THOMSON, Rich- Cox, Elizabeth (Mrs,) Forsyth, , G. Caldwell, Paul P; Carbone, W. Put~an, Thomas H. Putman, ard Thorn, Frands . M. Tierney, Jorgen Halsteen, Le Grande Jaomes H. Carmichael, Bradford H. Richard Relkin, Robert M. Richter, Byron A. Tietjen, Abraham Top- Howell, Charles J, Mastroeni, Fred Cauvet, Edward S. Clark, J.r., Hugo Gerald D. Roberts, Lawrence H .. chik, Walter H. Townsend, Jr., H. Pulver <Dr.), Bettye Sanford, F. Clearwater, Arthur E. C<>hen, Rockland, Robert H. Rukgaber, Thor N. Trolsen, Loui13 A. Urbano, Gerard Weinlander, Sigmund Woj- Jay N. Cohn, Huesten Collingwood, Nicholas T. Saviano, Jr., Edmund Jules R. Ville, Frank B. Walker, elk. Guy F. Cooper, Don M. Cregiet·. R. Sawtelle, Jr., Eric W. Schmidt. II, jan C. Walker, Dav1d Walrath, GRADUATE STUDENTS: John· RICHARD 0. DAVIS, .Andrew FERDINAND ~CHUETTE, Mar- Medford S. Webste:, J?aniel L .. E. Fagel, Jr., Gilbert H. Holtz, Hu- e. De Hont, Richard A. IleMott, tin L. Schulman, Joseph G. Schultz, Weiner, John G. Wetshett, Robert bert J. Kelly, Celeste Prehmus James R. Denio, Robert F. Dibble, Donald E. Schwar.tz Robert B. L. West, Edward F. Weyand, J .. (Mrs.), Marion A. Ransom (Mrs.), WiUiam E. Doll, James F. Dorrill, SchwartZ, Richard 'w. Shaffer,· Craig Willian;s. Henry N. Williams, Albin J. Rzeszatarski, Robert W. · Allan M. Doyle, Jr., Max: P. Drey- Lynn Shay, Marcus L. Shoobe, Ed-' Alan R. Wmterberger, Paul J. Shaefer, Myro-n J. Sunderland, · fuss, John H. Duffy, Richard J. win c. Shuttleworth, Jr., Martin Woods, Donald H. Zenger, Earl B. Elizabeth E. Thornburg, Eal'l J. Duncan, John J. Dvorscak, William Siegel, Robert L. Silverman, *Mon- 'Zi.mmer, Orazi_o R. Zumbo, Helmut Van Alstine, Dorothy Wager . H. Eigabroadt, Stephen B- Elgin, roe Silverman, Howard A. Simons, A1gner, Horac10 C. Fuentes. (Mrs:), Pei-Ping Ye11 (Mrs.). Robert R. Engisch, Gerald Ente, Stephen J. Simons, Stanley S. THE STUDENTS below attained •Index-5.000 Klaus Eppler, George V. E:xner, -------------- Francis B. Fassnacht, Robert S. Faubel Paul R. Fenwick, Laurence J. Fol~y, Gerald G. oster, Sidney B. Franklin, Edward E. F\reema11. Irwin Friedman, Benjamin Furst, Peter D. Fyfe, Joseph R. Gabriels, Joseph J. Gardeski, Rodney W. Gartner, James M. Gavin, Harry M. Gehman, Jr., Gerald G. Geis- mar, Richard A. Genthel;1el·- ISAK V. GERSON, Sigmund C. Giambruno, Joel S. Gitlin, R.obert D. Godburn, Donald T. Gouger, Lawrence Greenberg, 'Walter J. Gruen, Donald L. Guertin, Rich- ard W. Gunn, Jack S. Guzelis, Wil- liam P. Hall, III, Charles F. Hal- lenbeck, Jr., Leo A. Halloran, Jr., Hubert B. Harris, Richard W. IIr r.ry, Charlr.s \V. IIC' nnan. Jr., Keith A. Hitchins, Robert W. Ho-ckenbury, Richard A. Hoffman. \Valter S. Hoffman, Vi'arren E. Hoffman, Joseph C. Bonet, Robert H. Horn, Jewell \V. Horning, Jr., •Marshall N. Huberman. Harold J. Ht:gl1es, Jr .. Fran]\ E Kurley, Arthur J. Hutton, Jr., Ronald C. Jacobs, Douglas M. Jamba, Robert J. Jarrett. EARL W. JENNISON, Raymond E. Johnson, Richard ~. Johnson, George Jung, Da.vid J. Kavee, James F. Kenney, Jerome 0. Klein, Lewis S. Klein, Howard H. ]{loth, C'hat·les F. Koeh, Myron Komar, Harvey E. Kronick, Leo Kuper- schmid. James J. La Forest, An- thony E Lang. John L Larkin, Robert A. Laudise. *Robert M:. Lea, Edward L. Lee. Alfred A. Leszczyn- ski, Lawrence W. Levine, Leonard S. Levin<', JMeph C. Loffredo, Frank E. Lord. Fred<'l'iclt A Lude- wig, Jr., Thomas H McCabe, Rob- Prt J. Mco('oubrie, John C. :Maisel, Calvin L. Malinka, George E. Mark· ham. Jr., Duncan S. Martin, Rich- ard C. :!'.lechanic, Alfred \V. Me- neely. PHILIP W. ::uETZGE'R, Bernard L. Meyers, Samuel Milham, Jr., L. I. BALFOUJI 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES - RINGS • FAVOB8 .JEWELRY LEATHER GIF'l'8 STATIONERY - l'R.OGB.AMS CLUB PINS - K:EYS HEDAIS - TBOPHIII8 Write or co.ll CARL SORENSEIN SO Murray Ave, Watedord, N.Y. no :Nil:: TRoY -.ADA:lll8 1W1W ,. THE ACME BARBER SHOP 509 UNION ST. • \Where the Service is a Pleasure\ (Nearest to the Campus} We HaveT~em if its Slacks or.Pants I 000 pairs to pic~ from ROCHESTER PANTS STORE (New Location) 115 BROADWAY beivreen State and Srnith For Car Troubles See a Union Man • William H. Plath Auto Service 60 I UNION STREET MAKE GRUPPER'S YOUR HEAD9UARTERS FOR YOUR eGJFTS eWATCH REPAIRING ePENS & PENCILS 185 Jay Street (Next ·to Fanny Farmer) .... - ~ ... _... ....... ._. ______ ~ We Sell K & E DRAFTING INSTRUMENTS HAYDEN PHOTOCOPY 133 SO. CHURCH ST. off Lower State St. Phone 4-5154 --·-·······--·········- MAKE THE TOBACCO GROWERS~ MILDNES.S TEST YOURSELF ••• \TOBACCOS THAT SMELL MILDER SMOKE MILDER\ YES . .. Compare Chesterfield with the brand you've been smoking .•. Open a pack ••. smell that milder Chesterfield aroma. Prove-tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder. Now smoke Chesterfields- they do smoke milder, and they leave !;lQ UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE. GAZETTE PRESS Printers ATTENTION DUTCHMEN! Leave Your Clothes at WGY L-AUNDRY 4-DAY COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE (CASH & CARR¥) Only 3 Blocks from Ca.mpus 520 UNION STREET Anew o for trial o IDg to R Hospital. l lt wDl oiJeJ l\ID.i ll~l hUDUioDil .,11 .ill, cllJllcal tents and l cal hearts the past ; successfull n«ne hft,v1 enough.foJ Dr. Gert sor of ,edu versity, sp principals nectady rE is adjustn we must I as well a: tion of w back in a often mus1 of rea.ctioil munity,\ a A natlot begun by every ArnE tag'' :for 11 of atomic carry the type of tl Harold ]ll of Oor Li 1 er of tile 1 1ll1e drive l blood ba.nl needs of follow.ln t ing.'' Cornell awarded 1 tlon of a the study and prod1 tlon is sell unit labor structure nelrs engl gram. ThE 1942. The Scl Assoclatio mended 1 mium bo· voted to l beer a.nd \Tho COl'II man's clu' to stop 01 for a dim president The cit) to Issue ~ for a. new eliminate the Moba Profess« Benjamin lege ec01 Mr. The<H business pqiD.ted I committe< education tendent J Is se:rvbiE and Wlll· servlng-o tor bush schools. · Alph: Elect At are Alpha F Streets w dent. Ot elected l vic presl campus Prusok; ert Sllve1 ta.ry-, Rl Hubert l ert Murr; ert Laud Leon:ar chairmar w~ll prei trlbution Ohristme lng pia~ Ohrlstme leged bo. C.V~l ToF The l1 former« will be i services orlal Ch: Makes I DR. i tober to stitute o Conn. 1 active .j munlty

O!lll ts all a.t- gov• lli• elimi- elimi• to United of the As of r Asia. Around Town A n.ew m.eclu'mlcial heart Is r~ tor ,trial on h~ beings, accord 1ng to a surgeo11 at Habnemann Hospital. Phllaitelphis. If it works VC)I. 78, No. 1'0 Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950 PRICE 10 CENTS lt wlll C!peD. a new era ~ llhe~t and l\ID.I s~g;ecy and may brin&' h1JII1I\Bil1 ·~back from the dead.\ that ,Js, cliJllcall;v dead: dell.d to ~ in- tent!~ and Pl!EllOSeS. Other mechani- ca.l hoorts have been invented ln the past yea.rs and have worked successfully on dogs, but to date none have been considered safe enough, for human use. ~ If. :{. Phi Bets Elect Two Dr. Gertrude P. Driscoll. profes- Allan M. Doyle, Jr., and Joseph sor of .education at Columbia Uni- R. Gabriels were elected to mem- verslty, speaking at a meeting of .bersbip in Phi :Seta Kappa on Colleges Cannot Allow Reds To Sap Freedoms Says Prexy princi;pals and ,supervisors in Sche- Friday, according to Dr. Frederick ·<t- American colleges cannot afford to invite avowed Communists to their campuses \to nectady recently, said': \Education L. Bronner, secretary of the( AI- ,Phi.los Arg· ue dynamite the foundations of ,our freedoms,'' Dr. Carter Davidson, president of Union Col- is adjustment to life and in life pha of New York chapter. we must. learn to adjust to failure DOYLE, a B.A. Industrial Arts lege here, says in his annual report for the college year 1949-1950, made public today. as well as to success. The queil- !l}ajor and a member of Chi Psi R d • • <t- DISCUSSING HIS reaction to tion of whether to hold a child fraternity, and Gabriels, a pre-med, e PositiOn·. . ...AO- ••••• • ..... ... • • ..... Blasts 'Communists the desire of a group of students back in a grade for a second. year· are both members of the June, Christmas Dinner to have such a speaker appear at often must be decided, on the basis 1951 class. They will be initiated The Philomathean Society will The annual Christmas Dinner Union College recently, Dr. David- of r«:actioil of parents and the com- some time in the near future. hold the third in its popular bi- will be served at West College. son said,: munity,\ she said. Election to membership in Phi annual series of parliamentary de- on 'Thursday, Dec. 14 , at 5 : 45 \It must surely be clear by now ¥- ¥- :;. Beta Kappa is one of the highest bates on Wednesday, December 13, p.m. Students may procure spe- that our colleges and universities .. , •• distinctions to be gained by at 8:00 p.m. in Old Chapel. The cia! meal tickets for the dinner deserve the support of all free Am- A natloo.wid& drive was recen....,. scholarship. To be e!ig 1 'ble for erican citizens and corporations, b 1h .AMVETS to 1 proposition, \Resolved: That Coll'l=. at West College. begun ' Y e , · supp Y membership a student who is ~ mun,ists Should Be Allowed to Faculty members and, family because our colleges are perhaps every Ame:rlcatifiiL citlzeninwithth a \dogt candidate for the B.A. or genernL Teach in American Colleges and have been invited to attend the the most American of all our social tag'' :for !den: mtlonh ... _ e ev~~d ,B.S. degree must have an average Universities,\ will be propo-sed by feast. The price is $1.50 for invenli(jns. No other nation has of atomic attacks. T e ... gs wow. index of 4 or better. The election Professor Carl Niemeyer and op- adults and $.75 for children anything like them. In no other carry the Illite, address and blood is given on the basis of scholar-, posed by Professor Erwin von under 10. Freshmen wm not place are we likely to find such type of the wea.rer. According to ship and character and is .given Schlichten, The affirmative will be be able to eat at the reduced opportunities for shaping the Harold' Bussell ('•The Best Years, generally to the men who stand seconded by Klaus Eppler and the ,rate. future of America, in its tech- of Our Lives\') national co~nd- highest in scholarship in their negative by Ralph Friedbauer, nology, its culture, and its social er of tlle AMVETS, the idea behind class. ideals. 1lhe drive is to establish a .,walking THERE WILL be a second elec- THE PARLIAMJPNTABY style Ch • s \I RECENTLY bad occasion to lo ..,...., mee e emen ous tion to the society in the spring. see this clearly, when a group of b od b --·- to t th tr d of debate will be used. Guests will . OlT ong needs 4)f whole blood that wowd A formal dinner for the new mem- sit on the right or the left, de- Union students came to me and f ll l t ,.. --•· f .. hml bo ._ pending on whether they supp~ o OW· n ..... e ........ eo a..., c mu- bers will also be held at that time. · F t• l s t asked me to invite, on behalf of lng.'' The Union chapter of Phi Beta or oppose the resolution, After the es •va e the college, a former professor of ¥- ~ :;. formal speeches, speakers .from the \ t · · Kappa was established in 1817. - floor will be allowed to address the a wes ern umvers1ty who had been ---o motion. A division shall be taken Plans are being completed for discharged as an avowed member Cornell University this week awarded a contract for construc- tion of a $1.700,000 laboratory for ·Curriculum the study cf engineering materi~s It and production methods. Comple- on the motion at the beginning of the twenty-sixth annual Union Col- Dr. Carter Davidson of the Communist .pa:cty. When I the session and again at the close. lege Christmas Music Festival, to refused to ask him to give a speech be held this year on Sunday, De- in our chapel, the students were The first in this series of parlia- cember 17, in Memorial Chapel. upset, and accused me of denying mentary debates was held by the THE FESTIVAL was originated I F c TellS the fundamental freedom of tion is scheduled for 1952. The two- Und St d unit laboratory will be the second . er u y structui\e built as a part of Cot'- nell~s engineering development pro- gram. The first unit was opened in Philomatheans on 1farch 8, 1950, on Christmas of 1924 by Dr. Elmer 0 0 0 speech. I ha,·e given considerable , At that time Professor Joseph P. A. Tidmarsh in his first year at thought t(j this problem, and feel Doty, supported. by Klaus Eppler, the college. In the past, the festival Of Parley that I have reached what is for 1942. Richard Axen of the University of California at Los Angeles, is :r. :r- :;. presently con,ducting a study on campus of Union College students The Schenectady County Tavern and the college curricula. Axen is Association 11h!s week recom- working with a college committee mended ~sing the price of pre- and is gatheringe material for his mium bottled lleer a nickel but :doctoral thesis. voted to hold the line oep. all draft THE INVESTIGATION to date beer and bo1;tled Eastern beer. has centered about the Class of \The cGrner tavern is the working 1 9 51 a more normal class than man's clubhouse, he should be able oth~rs of the last few years. to stop off and get aglass Gf beer Exactly what the final study will for a dime,\ according to the new include has not been decided upon president ()f the (lrg'!\nization. definitely, It is expected it will :r. ·If- :to mushroom out in various direc- The city council voted five to one. tiona from .-the original study of to issue ~1,975,000 in bonds to pay '51. for a new sewage plant designed to Among the problems which may eliminate Schenectady's pollution of be studied are what percentage of the Mohawk River. students are taking all their elec- :r. :r- :'11 tives in their major field? Have Professors Joseph Rotundo and those who were accepted at Union Benjamin P. Whitaker of the col- because of their high grades and lege economics department, and College :Entrance Examinations Mr. Theodore R., McDwaine, college scores profited by their stay? How business ma.na.ger, have been ap- do people of superior ability,\ as pqlnted members. of lay advisory measured by various standard committees by the city b!}ard of tests, distribute themselves in the. education. according to Superln- curriculum? As yet, however, noth- tendenfi Harry J. Llnt.;ln. Rotundo ing more definite than a curricula Is se:rvlng- on the salary committee, study of the Class of '51 has been and Whitaker and Mcllwalne are decided upon. · serving- on the ll.dvfsory eomnitttee AXEN is preparing for work in for business affairs of' the looal higher education. His study re- schools. . . sulted from a desire to combine his doctoral research with profit- Alpha Phi Omega Elects Officers able internship. He feels that his present work at the college is \really a tremendous experience.\ Axen came to Union through in· teresting circumstances. After his proposed that \This House Believes grew to such a large number of me the only answer. that Eutbenasia Should Be Legal· participants that it was necessary \When one accepts the freedoms ized in the United States.\ to utilize three buildings and three The reresentatives of the Inter- of our American democracy, one conductors. In addition, requests. fraternity Council were dinner must accept them all. It is not for information concerning the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Vi'ilford H. possible for an American democrat Festival are received each year Ketz last Tuesday night. After to demand the right of free speech from all over New York state, Ver- the dinner a short meeting was in order that he may attack our mont, New Jersey, and Massachu- held during which the members other fundamental rights of poli- setts. who went to the National Inter- tical freedom, economic freedom, ---•0--- Play Tryouts Scheduled The Mountebanks winter produc- tion \The Glass Menagerie\ by Tennessee Wililams goes into cast- ing next week. The set itself is now being designed and will be built after the Christmas Holidays. TRY-OUTS will be held in Hanna Hall the 13th, 14th, and 15th at 7:30 p.m. Donald S, Jones will supervise the casting for this Drama Circle Criti<!'s and Pulitzer Prize winning play. The story centers around the tragjc efforts of a mother to give meaning and direction to her life and the lives of her children, though her methods are ineffective and irritating. Both children try to escape in the world of illusion. However, in the end, the world of illusion that these people have trieri to create crashes down about them. The play is beco-ming more and more <l. commentary of present day life in a chaotic world. THE PRODUCTION 'Will be pre- sented on two successive week- ends, March 8 to 10, and again on March 15 to 17. The Festival will begin a.t eleven, fraternity Council Conference re- religious freedom, educational free- o'clock Sunday morning with the ported on the discussions that were dom, and personal freedom. A traditional morning musical serv- held there• Communist is openly opposed to ice, at which time Professor War- WILLIAM GREVE revealed that these other freedoms, and there- reo C. Taylor, religious adviser to one round table group discussed fore cannot, under the rules of the students, will read the \Christmas the possibilities of changing the society, use one of them to under- Story\ from the Bible, and the col- so-called fraternity \Hell Week\ mine and destroy the others. If lege ch{)ir will present their Christ- into a more constructive \Greek one falls, they all perish; we must mas concert, The Festival will con- Week,\ during which the pledges therefore defend them all. tinue at 4 p.m. with the traditional of the different houses would take \ONE DOES NOT invite an organ recital of Christmas music. part in city and college cleanup avowed thief into one's home and At 7:30 p.m., Dr. Tidmarsh and the projects. The council will analyze present him with the combination choir will participate in the com- the various suggestions and see to the wall safe; neither can we munity carol sing. if it would be possible to adopt afford to invite avowed Commun- Board: No Draft! The draft board in Roosevelt county, Montana, refused to draft any more men until the United States is willing to use the atomic bomb in their sup- port and Gov. John W. Bonner promptly demanded the resigna- tions of the entire board. This might be of interest to all the men on campus who are now worrying about the question- naires they have been receiving, as well as their draft classi- fications. such a plan here. ists to our campuses to dynamite David Savag!', who attended a the foundations of our freedoms. discussion on scholarship, reported But, say the students, we are that several delegates said that strong-minded enough to resist his th~>y improved the eollege indexes propaganda; we would puncture of their chapters by reqmrmg his arguments~ Such thingkng is study periods for the entire house naive, for a Communist doesn't and a minimum of 2.3 as a re- argue according to the rules; he quirement before men could be v. ill use any form of dishonesty to initiated. ga.in his point. And once his point Henderson Offers Economics Course is gained, we won't be given a chance to answer.'' Manager South _Ridicules The Lettuce Controversy The Social Studies Division has announced a new course to be given during the second S('mester by Professor John B. Hendl'rson, first exchange professor from St. Andrews University to Union. Dr. Davidson, in his report, also discussed another problem con- fronting the colleges, the charge that barriers of prejudice and ex- pence are being raised' against some students. ''To my way of thinking,\ he said, \much of this tallt is strictly myth-making.\ At a recent election of offl.cers of doctoral committee at UCLA had Alplu!. Phi Omega, William c.· approved his general plan, he ap- Streets was electer fraternity pres!~. plied to several small colleges seek- d.ent. Other J:IIembers who were ing a \laboratory\. .At about the elected to office are: on-campus same time his letter was received vic president; Eric Schmidt; oft'- at Union, a committee of the Recently the West College dining room became the campus vice president, Ralph campus chapter of the American site of a new business. Senior Sam Neweomer, in order to Prusok; recording aecreb;l.ry, Rob- Association of University Profes· protest the five_ cent inere. ase in price of. sandwic.he. s with ert Silverman; cori'esponding secre- sors had decided to undertake a d h t M d th d h 11 THE COURSE, British Economic Experience 1914-1945, will feature the changes in national income, industrial activity, employment, in- ternational trade, banking and fin- ance which have resulted fl'Om the impact of two world wars and the great depression on the British economy. \AT I;NION and at hundreds of other colleges,\ Dr. Davidson con- tinued, \race religion, and na- tional ol\igins or soda! status have never played an important part in admissions policies. Although it is true that only a small propor- tion of American families can af- ford to pay the entire !ptpense of a college education from their cur- rent income, the great majority of our young people, if they are ade- quately motivated by the desire for further education, can prepare for it by working in the summers, com- tary. :Richard Pollen; treasurer; study of the college with the in· lettuce, opened a stan t IS pas on ay In . e mmg a Hubert Plummer; historian, Rob- formation gathered to be used in and sold lettuce leaves for a penny a leaf. ert MuTray; alumni secretary, Rob- future pla.nning. The committee's 1\VHEN questioned about the re-·~·1'---------------­ ert Laudise. plans fitted in with those of Axen, cusancy, Mr. William South, man- a dime. The dinners, which cost Leonard Levine has been named and be was invited to make• his ager of the \beanery\, stated that more than 85 cents to serve alope, chairman· of a committee which study here. Newcomer's actions were \of no force South to rely on other sales wUl prepare food baskets for dis- THE COMMITTEE with which consequence\. Jokingly he added for a net profit. In answer to New- tributlon to needy families at Axen is working contaJns represen- that the neophyte vendor will be comer's illustration that the Dutch- Ohrlatma.s time . .A.P.I. Is also mak- tatives of the administration, welcome to continue his crusade men's Rathskeller undersells the ing pians to coliduct lts annual faculty· and trustees. Representing but only subject to prescribed re- college dining hall, South claims Ohr!stma.s party for underprivi- the administration are President strictions-donning the costume of \the former realizes a. 15 cent profit Professor Henderson is a mem- ber of the economics department at St. Andrews where be received his M.A. degree. He also studied at Cambridge University before joining the R.A.F. The course, Social Studies 53, will be open for juniors and ( Continued on Page 3) leged boys in Schenectady. Carter Davidson and Dean C. Wil- a chef, paying rent, and complying on bottled beer and it is thus able o Uam Huntley; the faculty, Profes- with health regulations. to cover any overhead.\ seniors. ---•0--- Post Office Moved To West College C.V .. Brown Returns To Preach Sunda.y The Rev. Dr. C. Victor Br()wn, former cba.plain of Union College, will be the speaker at the worship services Sunday at H a.m. in Mem- orial Chapel. His subject is \What Makes Life Good.\ DR. BROWN resigned in Oc- tober to become director ot the In- stitute of World Affairs, Salisbury, Conn. While at Ut1lon, he took an activ~ part in cbllege and com- munity activities. sore Gordon R. Silber, Allan C. · SOUTH, however, did admit din- The members of South College, Scott, Benjamin P. Whitaker, n.nd ing1 room food prices are high; bul The manager generously offered R p J TakeS Frosh the previously \near everything\ H.. Gilbert Harlow; the trustees, he explained that operating costs to act immediately on any con- dorm, woke today to anothei\ rude members of the education commit- are exhorbitant. To substantiate his structive suggestions or complaints Because of the tense interna- migration. Henceforth the occu- tee, which inQludes Leroy J. Weed, assertions, be offered as examples \rendered unto him.\ tiona! situation Rensselaer Poly- pants will have to receive their chairman; Frank Bailey, Robert P. the 75-cent an hour minimum wage He firmly asserted that be re- technic Institute wlll accept a \noontime lift\ at the new West Patterson, George M. Wiley, Roy law, food expenses, and salaries of ceived no monetary gain because freshman class on Feb. 1. This College post office. C, Muir, Walter C. Baker, Hiram part-time help. of the high prices; he receives a means that students finishing high THURSDAY the old army mail 'C. Todd, Willis R. Whitney; W. \EVERY BUSINESS concern,\ straight salary for his work, so he school courses in January may call was held in the boxless Old Howard Wright, and Ralph D. said south, \markets some article is naturally willing to meat the complete one entire Far of college Gym post office, Lolll{S like the Bennett. or commodity at an inuated price students half way. before September. Persident Liv- Frosh have a little town of their Axen received his ·undergraduate in order to sell other items cheaply COMMENT from some men high ingston W. Houston of RP.I, snid. own. No spt>clflc use for the old training at the University of Chi-· and still cover the overhead. The up in the college indicated that. \It would now be a costly mistake 1 mail room has y('t been made of- cago and Miami University <Ohio), dining room is so using sartdwiche~;~ many officials feel that South· to_ force high. school . January 1 ficial. Except f_or the. telephones, and his g 1 •aduate tra.ining at Stan- with lettuce in this way.\ The~should learn to use penny increases' g1aduates to \\alt se\·en months b<'· i the nPw d<1rm 1\'1\h its library, game ford University In addition to management is, therefore, abie to rather than always resorting to fore they could begin their studies room, lounge, and \'ending ma- UCLA. sell coffee for five cents and' pie for nickel and dime hikes. in engineering and sci('nce.\ I chines is almost complete.

'i 2 Qtnurnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor ot the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- t!slng Representative: Na.. tlonal Advertising Service, Inc., College· Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. c. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial' Of:tlce,W'Mhburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Otflce as sec- one) Class Mail Matter, subscription lOcJ a copy; $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. SENIOR BOARD JAY N. COHN '53 ... , ................................... , ....... Editor DON M. CREGIER \61 ................................. Associate Editor MARTIN SIEGEL '51 ................................... Associate Editor JOHN P. KENNEDY \52 ................................... News Editor JEROME U.\RTXER \52 .............................. , ••• Page Editor MARVI:-1 L KOH:-1 '53 .................................... Page Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR '52 ................................ Page Editor DONALD E. SCHWARTZi '52 . ..• • .. ... . . .. .. . .. ... .. • .. Spofcts Editor ROBERT C. SMITH '52 ............................. :.\ .. Featut·e Editor ALA:-1 K RADACK '52 .............................. Business Manager ROBERT B. GRI:-IDLEY '51 .......•.............. Circulation Manager Jl:NlOR BOARD JOHN J. CASSIDY '63 .....•...........••••..... As:;istant Sport:; Editor JOSEPH K. HANDLER '52 ..........•.... Assistant Business Manager LEO KUPERSCHMID '52 .............. , . As,.istant Bu•iness Managers MONROE SILVERMA:-1 \52 ••.•.••.••••••....• Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE W. LEVINE '53 •.....•..•............• , • Exchange Editor GEORGE F. REDINGTO)I '52 .•...•.... Assbtant Cl!·culat.ion Manager FEA:TtJRE ST A.FF Thomas Donlon, Peter Fyfe, Alfred Kingon, Myron Komar, John Moses, Robert Murray. l'HOTOGRAPHY STAFF Alan Forman, John Stebbins, Harold Weisberg. Frank Skutsch. REPORTERS Irwin Barg, James Carmichael. Alfred Gohlbe.rger, William Graves, Herbel't Hille-r, !\1khael al<hn, Jerome Klein, \VIlliam :.\1ohrmann, Martin, Portnoy, David Smith, Daniel \Vainer. llUSINESS STAFF James DeSorbo. Charles Little, Gel'!lld Rob.ert•, Daniel Siesel, Robert Sll verman, Hyman Florence. CLBCULATlON STAFF Robart Strand, HoraA!a Van Yoast, Thomas Davenport, George .Putman, CurUs Bates, David Steffauhagen. Culver Hayes. J. Towell Davis, Wllliam Winchester. A Plan That Failed FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950 ,, I SOUND AND FURY My Word! b.y Don Cregier By Monroe Silverman \I l1ave just begun to fight;'' · ...-John PauJ: jones Fight haJ' til Shf! .~tl'ikes or s~qgs·l .D011't The United Nations fron't in Korea is crumbling. Not .on)y does this represent a great military catastrophe to the United Nations fand ·\Rt\ep the :guns going! the United States in particular) but also it places the earth within an give up the sh:ip!\ , A-Bombs thl'Ow of World War HI. ' -Captain James Lawrence · IF WE CONSIDER the actions of the People's Republic .of China The most op~imistic oBserver on our· .side would be :fo~c~;~d to admit to be pure and imperialistic military aggression-then the future is that the international sihlation .today is unlv.ersally .gl'im. In two d·ecided. But is it not possible that this is a oversimplified conclusion? sectors of .the world, Korea and Fndo\Chimt the forces of democracy Is it not ·possible that other factors influenced the decisions of Com- are engaged in full•scale mi~itary retreat; elsewhere, ~hough uo military munist China? action is at present taking place, the democratic nations ave mainly on , . If the Chinese communists were motivated by only aggreSsive the defensive in the war of ideas or else waging guerr'ila action, Al- . destg·ns, why is it that they did not enter the Korean conflict earlier? though it still appears unHkely that the USS:R- will: feel .itself in a posi- . With their overwhelming supply of man-power tl~ey could have hur]ed, tion to engage in a world war before late 1951 or '1952, it is very ptob- the U.N. force:; into the st·a at any time they chose. Yet for a Ion~;; able that R:Pd China has been elected to keep the armed fovces of the while they did not intervene, United Nations busy ln the meantime If the latter continue to be de- ployed. ~IEANVITIDLE, while the Chinese remained behind their .borders, AS TIDS WRITING was takipg place, the evacuation of United the U.N. forces, ·Under Douglas Mac.Arthm', p. ushed back the North N · at10ns troops from Korea was being considered, and a deciSion may · Korean a~gressovs. When the U.N. reached the 38th parallel, Greai. have since been reached. I may· be wrong, but I have been given to Britain, India, and others pleaded that they halt and try .to reach understa:nd that it would. be possible to defend a liinited beachhead, some peaceful settlement. such as the one· around Pusan .Jast summer, .aga:in·st greatly superior Victory for the U.N. appeared certain. Ah,eady Rheee was talking forces provided command of the sea and air were maintained. rt of a unified Korea under his control. U.N. forces headed for the would,. in my opinion, be a mistake not to retain a foothold in Korea Manchurian border. Great Britain, India, and other nations, fearing were it militarily possible to do so. The mass entry of the Chinese a misinterpretation of Western aims by China, suggested the creation Communists into tht> war made olimiting military action to the Korean r.f a 40 milE' buffer zone between the U.N. forces and the Manchurian peninsula virtually impossible since the enemy's source 0f supply is · border. This was ignored as MacArthur raced for the Yalu River· across the Manchurian border. Chinese entry presented us· with three border so that he could \send the boys home by Christmas.\ alternatives: get out of Korea and. leave aggres:;ive Communism hold- THE DAMS on this river supply :Manchurian industry with most' ing the field; compromise and try to secure a modus vivendi presum- . of its electric power. Syngham Rhee, in his characteristically ir1f~~- ably north of the 38th parallel; or stay in the fight and expand military ponsible manner threatened to cut off the power supply to Manchtfl'ia. action to fhe Chinese mainland. Although the United tSates discJa.imed all agg1 essive designs on China· THE 'SECOND alternative has the most support among the United and promised to maintain the Manchurian electric supply, we must Nations at the moment, but a losing combatant is Invariably in a dlffi- look at these pledges through Chinese eyes. Douglas MacArthur sup- cult position to .bargain successfully. To. be forced. out of Korea ruto.- ports the Rhee regime, giving addE>d weight to Rhee·s threats. United . gether would most certainly mean a los:;; of face, and its psychologicaJ 1, States aid to Chaing Kai-shek and our action in Formosa has been effect might be devastating. There:fore, to continue the \Var in )lorth- interpreted by the Chinese as imperialistic moves. ern Asia in at least a limited wa,y would seem to be the logical con- The Chinese entered the Korean war unexpectedly. .Although Mao. elusion m1d the maintenance of a supply:, air, and naval base in Korea Tse-tung had warned that China would not \stand idly by\' an invasion, an essential factor thereof. However d.ark the situation may look now, of North Korea, MacArthur assured Truman that the Chinese would· the United Nations should nevertheless have the rllconquest of Korea not join the fight. The Chinese surprised U.N. forces, pushed them: as an ventual objective. Too many lives have :been lost to make back, and th<'n stopped. lt appeared as though the Chinese aim was, evacuation of Korea palatable or subject to ratjonalization. The year course system at Union has failed and the ad- ministration and faculty may soon admit it. Many feel that the college will go back to the term academic set-up next year. to protect the dams. The week's lull in the fighting, and the coming· WHII.E THE STRUGGLE in .Asia must not be given up, ail.;!. of the Peking delegation to the United Nations, raised the hope that · economic sanctions and possibly the bombing of Chinese Ir.\i.litary qases a peaceful settl~mnt might yt be achieved. : and industrial centers should be carried out, the use of armed forces· IF THE U.N. had stopped at the 38th parallel and attempted settle- . in China should be limited to native troops, i.e., those of the Ghinese ment ,a tremendous moral victory would have been achieved by the .Nationalists, adequately equipped and supplied. To my knowledge no West. <This moral victory would have been especially great in the. foreign invader has ever successfully conquered China, and to make eyes of India and the other Asians whose support we are seeking.) use of United Nations troops for this purpose would be' :foolhardy and If MacArthur had held back his last offensive, a settlement still might restrictive of vital def~se efforts elsewhere ·in the world. The college is nonetheless burdened with a non-function- ing system for the rest of this year and perhaps it is of more immediate importance to examine the reasons why it failed. Since, from an academic stand-point, the yearly basis has its merits, has worked well at l!nion in past year and is still working smoothly in many colleges, il::; failure nuw be at- tributed to some of the following reasons: have been reached. But the time could not be spared; neither, of. Immediate mobilization of the armed forces of the democratic course, were the lives. countries on a war basis can no longer be dispensed with. • In regard 1. The decision to change to the year system was passed by the narrowest of margins in the Faculty :CouncH and many professors continued passive resistance to the plan. 2. The college \leaped'' before it \looked\ and failed to examine the prbolems involved before rushing blindly into so imp.ortant a change. .And what now? U.N. forces are in retreat before the Chinese. No to the United States, 'this l;lleans the calling to ,active duty of the ha- matter how many men we pour into Korea, the Chinese will always· tional guard and the reserves and widened application of the :draft, have more. If we bomb or attack Manchuria, an ·li.ll-out war will prob- ~ for the p~rpose of building up our ser':ices to at least .one-third of their ably ensue. Russia might remain aloof for a few months until the; strength m World War II and employmg them in a cj:efensive capacity T:J. S. was amply committed In China, then she would proba:bly join.: throughout the world. Other Western European countries should be the Chinese. Thus would come World War III. · expected to contribute to the d!lfense effort with more alacrity than at present. An adequate defense in Europe must be organized within 3. There is a great amount of confusion among both faculty and students as to what the new system means, par- tially because the announcement of what courses were to go on a yearly basis was not made until well after the new term started, and partially because many instructors preferred not to understand. 4. Many professors outwardly admit that they will not test the students on the whole year's work in the June final thus undermining the purpose of the system. ' . 5. Some departments have not decided what they are gomg to do and the student remains \up in the air\ when he has every right to know where he stands. 6. The confusion and inconsistencies in the set-up can lead only to unfair marking methods. 7. ~nd lastly, t~e college had the bad luck of adopting a peace time academic method when there was destined to be no peace in the world. It remains only for the faculty to vote down the year system so the college can go back on the simpler semester basis. That stubborn minority on the Faculty Council will yet have the last laugh. .... To The Sublime . Th~ compul$ory cryapel issue, so alive in the pages of this .paper a year ago, Is, may be dormant but it is not for- gotten. . Th.e quality of chapel programs is not now up for con- std~ratlo~, bu~ rathe~ the me.tbod of checking attendance which still fa1ls to ftll the bill. A progressive American c?llege sho?ld be able to find a fair way to determine as Simple a thm.g as a person's presence in the chapel. If they cannot do this •. even by forcmg the students to sit in desig- nated pl~ces hke g:rade schoolers, then the whole system should be abandoned as a farce. When a man who has been in the army since September has mo~·e ch.apel credits than a faithful chapel goer, it is time for. an mqmry, 4s long as programs continue to be inter- estm~ stude!lts ~Ill atten~ .assemblies twice a week without coercwn, which, m. my opmwn, is as often as they should be held. On that bas1s, let's get tid of this childish foolishness. Letter to the Editor 'l'o whom it may concern: For Your Information FRIDAY, DEC. 8-Daily Assembly,~-------------­ Dr .. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noo·n; FRIDAY, DEC. !~Daily assem- Choir rehearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; bly, recital, Dr. E . .A. Tidmarsh, Band rehearsal, Gym, 4:30 p.m.; MC, noon; Faculty Woman's club Schubert Club concert, MC, 8:30 Xmas tea Prof. and Mrs Bran- p.m. artist Mary Becker, violinist ner's, 3:30 p.m.; Choir rehearsal, <recall performance), tickets MC, 4:30 p.m.; B·and rehearsal, $1.80 at door. Gym, 4:30 p.m.; .Art Club, OC, SATURDAY, DEC. 9-Navy ex:am- inations, Physics laboratory, all day; Intervan;ity Fellowship meeting, OC, 8 p.m.; Varsity bas- ketball, Union vs. Wililams at Williamstown, 8:30 p.m. SUNDAY, DEC. tO--Preacher, The Rev. C. Victor Brown, Director of Institute of World Affairs, Salis- 7-9 p.m.; Premedical club, Bio- logy 205, 8 p.m.; Basketball, Nott Te1•race vs. Scotia, Gym, 8 p.m.; Concert. John Lloyd and two of his students, MC, 8 p.m. (free tickets from • Miss Travis). ---01--- Placement News bury, Conn. and former chaplain All men in the 7th and 8th terms of Union College, MC, 11 a.m. are requested by the Placement MONDAY, DEC. 11-Daily assem- Office to attend a class meeting at bly, to be announced, MC, noon; 12 noon on December 13 in the Social studies colloquim, English· Memorial Chapel. Departments or reading room, 3:30 p.m. Faculty individuals having announcements invited; Dance band, Gym, 7 to be presented .are asked to have p.m.; Geological confere!lce (sec- them at the Graduate Council of. ond) Geol. Lab., 7:30p.m.; Insti- fice in Wells House by 5 p.m. on tute of Radio Engineers, EE 22, Monday, :Oec. 11. 8 p.m. ' IT IS SUGGESTED that seniors particularly those graduating i~ TUESDAY, DEC. l~Service of January, make appointments by worship, UCC.A, MC, 7:30 a.m.; 'letter for any placement visits Daily as«eml,Jly, speaker, Prof. planned for the Christmas· recess. Harold W. Blodgett, \George Material borrowed from the Bernard Shaw\ <second in series Placement library at Wells House of three), MC, noon; Student (unless it is to be retained per- council, OC, 7:30 p.m.; AlEE manently) should be returned be- · <Schenectady chapter), EE 22, ·.fore December 19. 7;30 p.m.; Nott Terrace high o--~ school choir, MC, 8 p.m., tickets at door 50 cents. WEDNESDAY, DEC, 13-Episcopa! students, communion service, MC, 7 a.m.; voluntary service of worship, OC, noon; Senior class me~ting, MC, noon; Swimming, Umon vs. Hamilton, Gym, 3:30 p.m.; Glee club rehearsal; MC, 4:30 p.m.; AlEE <Student chap- ter), EE 22, 7:30 p.m.; Newman club, CE 106, 7:30 p.m.; Philo- mathean societY, OQ, 8 p.m., de- bate, \Resolved: That Commun- ists should be allowed to teach in colleges of the U. S.\; CO!r LEGE CONCERT, Cooperative assemblies, Schenectady Choral society under the direction of Rufus Wheeler, program of folk music and Christmas carols, com- munity invited without charge, TWO POINTS CREDIT; varsity basketball, Union vs. Wesleyan at Middletown, 8 p.m. Dorm Registration Students desiring do-mitory rooms for the February-June, 1951 term .are requested to make reservations with Miss Fleming in the Business Office by Dec. 19, 1950. Present dormitory residents have been sent reservation forms. Any other students can obtain the form at the Business Office. Students will be notified of their assignment after Christmas vacation, Fresh- men do not need to re-apply for their presert t rooms as their Oiig- inal reservation card covers the year, September-June; 1951. ATTENTION is again ~alled to the college policy on housing stu- dents. All students are required to live in the college dormitories with the following exceptions: a. Stude~ts living at home or in fraterni1;y houses. It interests me that one week you can feel perfectly free to cut an already short column ~f mine without consulting me, and the following week aslt me: to prov1de \at least eleven inches.'' Not only are you consistently. mconsistent but, like many other agencies of this college, apparently have no respect for Individual feelings. I think that the two. falling mentioned ~bove· .are the two main reasons why Union College and the Concord!cnsls have the reputation they do among the student body; no further elaboration on what that reputation is can in my opinion be needed. DON M. CREGIER ED. NOTE: The preceding letter was received with Mr. Cregier's · column, My Word, which appears elsewhere on this page. It was ad- dressed to \T'o whom it may concern\ and, since it refers. to the reputa- tion of the college In vague and questionable terms, we feel it con- cerns the students enough to be printed here. · THURSDAY, DEC. 14-Daily as- sembly, speaker, Prof. Codman Hislop, \The Birth of Union Col- lege/' Part II, Md, noon; ASCE, CE 106, 7:30 p.m.; Lecture Dr Aki Nyabongo of Langston' Unj~ versity (Prince of the African Kingdom of Toro), \We Should be Loyal to America/ MC, 7:30 p.m., tickets at door. b, Married students. · c. . Students excused by Miss Trav1s who are working _tor their rOOI;llS, d. Students excused by the Busi- ness Office. Penalty for violation of above . college rule will be in the amount <if one semester's double room rent . ($100.00). · the next twelve months, and positive steps toward this end sh:ould not be held up any long,er .by bickering and temporizing. Important Notices Students who do not expect to • return for the second semester should Inform the Registrar's Of- fice at once. Students who expect to graduate in January need not report. a slip from the Registrar's Office for the course they wish to take In the second semester to be signed 'by the student's adviser. English 16. French 2b Fr.ench 11 German 2b German 12 Spanish 2b Sp;l.nish 11 THOSE students who wish to ·change their curricula should con- . sult Dean Huntley without delay. · It is assumed that students now taking \a\ part courses will con- tinue in the \I:!\ part of those courses. Any student who, for anY · reason, cannot continue in the \b\ part of the courses which he is now taking must report to the Registrar's Office before Friday, .Dec. 15. Students now t·egistered in the courses listed below should obtain GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FI'ITING US S~te St.---Blnce 1893 ALL ADJUSTMENTS in sched- ules will be made in the Regis- trar's Office on recommendation and permission of advisers and in• structor~ concerned. They must be completed before the Christmas Recess. ... ... DESK LAMPS Adjustable Incandescent and Fluorescent • SAVE SUPPLY CO. 501 State St. PHONE 6-4193 For Car Troubles See a Union Man I Exclusive at . . . I ~/D ... ~ w~0n~ ()R\\\}1~~~ stJEWILliS • William H. Plath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET Everything in Music Sterling rimmed 'Coast-trays' may be used as a Coaster . . or Ash Tray : the seal :will not be affected ' by the heat of a cigarette or a douse of Old Granddad A Perfect Csristmas Gift $4.50 Inc. Tax Pianos -- Organs Television-Radio Combinations Records-Sheet Musi<:-Phonographs ROBERTS PIANO COMPANY 203 STATE STREET PHONE ..._ 2-2493 Open Thors. Until 9 P.M. . FRIDAY, I PhiJ Byl Almost had Phili:r: the coursE and much way is thi: Stanley, a he teache~ PROFESS graduated fl College in l In English ored 'in ph interest,. ho·> extra curr miLtics. ..A.ft gree, he ch< and spen:t ! into the ch way. Fortu unsuccessfu back 'on the He chose ate school' couldn't sta recting frel .At Harvar< fred North ating with Phil Stanle: was two ye of the philc fessor Lari gether the~ ha·rmonious ca·nstantly traditional sistently in Professor Philosophy now, is uni PROFES teaching a: time to it. along three lngly little inspection solution to and this i time drear recognized is a logic tice; that 1 tiona toda:') thing an < of 11-ny .org! that via 1 much mor· boys\ in tl: trying to is workin~ velopment SECONI has been study on believes tt b()y\ ip. pl: one who t this admi1 with this l in Profes: Greel!:.., cia Stanley sp on one of sophical p tion: that we comm1 or, put Clai Abe Professc sible for 1 Wat;ren Q of Englisl Universit:\1 magazine. Profess< professors 1. Our fessor wh that can· the cuff., 2. Wha dents in ~ ester he 1: books in jects. In tures anc No mind: absorb so short a 1 exected 1 blind, wh confined all along would \fl s.· The examinati is suppof to any thrown 1 lawyer m the phy: medical 1 Choir The Un sent a • Baptist C THE Christma llgious b will be: erick C Cloudy,\ two orga marsh, \ and \TO< This c• ing .,the progi'am on Sund1

admit two on .Al- posi- prob- of the be de- United may to hhead, ed. It Korea hinese an is ·three hold- diffi- alto.- porth- con- nO\V, Korea make ailQ. qases ge no make and ha- draft, their ld be than not take igned in• must . FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950 3 Philosophy Humanized· By Professor Stanley Eat Hearty! Unions Health Saved By Co-op Crusaders · By Al Kingon Almo~~ every student w~o has taken philosophy ~nd has had Ph1hp St~nley a.s an m~tructor, has come away from the course a httle Wiser, a httle bJ.:oader, a little .confused · and much better off than before he went in. I:n no smali • way is this due to the dynamic personality of Professor Phil Stanley, as well as his unique al'rangements of the courses he teaches. PROFESSOR STANLEY was tp•'----~-------~-­ graduate.d from. Pennsylvania State \gQod- \bad\ etc. This too he be- College ~n 1923 wh?r~e he majored. ;lieves iS tied in with his adminis- .fn E~_ghsh .compos1tlon. and min- .trative logic. ?red m philosophy. I_I 1 s _ great~st ' Professor Stanley has no pUb- . mterest,. ho·~ever, was ~n. his maJor .lishing plans. He modestly says extr~ .curncular . actlv_JtY - dra- that the aims •he has set cannot mabcs. .A-fter get~mg hiS .B.A. de- • be reached by himself. And there- gree, he chose actmg !J,S hls career. fore one of his goals in tea.ching' and spent a year t:ying to break. is to find a \good man\ from in to the charmed Cll'cle of Broad-: Mll.Ong his students whom ·he can way. Fortunately for t;s ·he was,· interest in what he is doing and, unsuccessful and h.e. de~1ded to fall i :help that man go far. · back •on the aca.demiC bfe;• : · HE HAS SHIED away from big· :He chose philosophy m gradu- organizations like the .American ate rs~hool; he says, because he· :Philosohical Society, although he coul~n t stand the. tho~ght of cor- 'is a member, and is interested in recbng freshmen ·E~gl!sh themes. small groups like the Upstate .At Harvard h~ studied under Al- :creighton Philosophical Society. fred North Wh1tehe:;td. Upon gradu- His hobby is dramatics and he ati~g with a Ph.D. degre~ in 192~, used to do summer stock work. Phll Stanley came to Umon. ThiS. During the war years he directed was two :yea.rs after the other half the Mounteba.nks~ He is a great of the philosophy departm.ent, Pro-_ j~z addict which stems from his fessor Larrabee, had arnved. To-: Undergraduate days when he gether ~hey are an esteemed and played tne banjo in a jazz band. harmomous team .. They. have be.en: He ·doesn't like present day jazz co-n:;J~~ntly exper1mentmg _ With. records and derives a grea.t deal t;ad1hona~ cours~ mtheds, and con- of .pleasure when he likens real s1stently mnovatmg new features. jazz to the classics. Professor Stanley believes the HE SPENDS more time in art Philosophy 1'1 course as it exists• .and >leans towards Picasso and the now, is unique in the ~ountry. moderns. Hhis other pastime is ~• Photo by Skutsch A thin, mal-nourished member of the Lettuce Co-op makes a sale in opening day business action at West College. The plJl'oo chaser, who plunked down a penny for the leafy green rarity, is freshman Richard Hoffman. EDITOR'S NOTE: The following article was scrawled on wilted leaves of lettuce by a charter member of the newly formed Union branch of the lCSPSCS and was left mysteriously at our office by a long-eared, long- toothed individual who claimed membership In the society. Lt !! reproduced here· for some obscure reason. The formation of the Union Lettuce Co-up on our campus by some enterprising and humane students has put a de- finite damper on the current outside loose talk about irres- ponsible and cloistered Union students. IN A SPONTANEOUS response@·>-· --~---------­ to the caH of righteousness and him fifty percent of the first humanity, over a hundred men week's gross profits. Besides, the took action when they read in a Executive Committee stated, the current publication of the I.S.P$.- co-op felt that it could afford to C;S. that there have been several help a struggling competitor give severe cases of vitam.lne defi.cious better- service to students. letteous and numerous bordering · cases of sa.ndwichwn discustum in the Schenectady area. The group immediately affiliated with the In- ternational Society for the Preven- tion of Scurvy among College· Stu- dents and contacted the local Let- tuce Growers Wholesale Outlet for information and help in this serv- ice. The Lettuce Growers gener- ously offered to provide the new co-op with lettuce at the usual wholesale price. A student salesman was selected last Monday from a large group of volunteers to open the business Tuesday noon in beautiful West Colleoge Dining Hall. The Eco- nomics Department was cil.lled on to make an estimate of the costs and fair profit margin of the enter- prise, and a price of one cent per leaf was selected on their recom- mendation. Business was sensa- tional! Drawn and peeded students pressed around the ()O-op stand, eager to plunk down their shiny . penny for a leaf of fresh, tasty let- tuce. Business soon dwindled how- ever, because of the low volume of sandwich sales at West College. THE COMMITTEE further stated that the remaining profits wouid be turned back into this week's business, in order to expand the facilities, thus enabling the Co-op to build a new library or some other useful thing with the next quar·ter's profits. Jolly Boys Depose Two Gino R. De Togni was impeached and removed from office as lord high moderator- .of the Jolly Boys at a meeting of the organization last Monday. In addition to tak- ing this action, the Jolly Boys voted to award the Order of the Golden Buffalo on Prize Day to the member of the graduating class with the lowest scholastic standing. PROFESSOR STANLEY love;s golf and he shoots a pretty fair teaching. and _devote~ most of h1s game. · time to 1t. ~~s outs~de work runs Stanley's years at Union have· along three hnes, wh1ch have seem- been fr.uitful ones. He thinks the ingly little relation but on closer~ school is too moaest for its accom- inspe.ction are. seen to aim a~ a: plishments, and he believes it to solution. to. a sm~·~e problem; F1;st,. be the best college in \its own a.nd th1s 111 Philip Sta?-ley s hfe-. league.\ He particularly admires tlme ~ream ?-nd goal, IS to have . it because it is not designed \to 7ecogmz~d his th:o:y th.at there perpetuate the wealthy class.\ By ~~ a logic_ of adr~nmstratr~'~ p~ac- c()mparison, he says, we have little hce; that all the 1deas and mshtu- of the snobbishness and superficial tions today are based on the same intellect. ------------------------~---- THE LARGER part of one head DE TOGNI, who took office in ·september, .headed a particularly turbulent administration. He came through two previous attempts to impeach him with slim votes of confidence but the third time was confronted with overwhelming op- position to his continuance in of- fice. thing an op:rat~ng . administr:;tion PIIIL STANLEY plans to spend of any ?rgan.1zaho~ JS. He believes his life at Union delighting, awak- ·that V]a thrs logic, you can see ening and hoping to inspire his much more deeply what the \bog stude~ts. But the more you get boy;s\ in the field of philosophy are to know of him less of the pensive ~rymg ~o say. Professor Stanley. scholar appears and .something 1s workmg very hard on the de- greater emerges-a good friend and velopment of this system. a swell fellow. ---10--- Prexy's Report .•. Philos Talk The Philomathean Society won ·one and tied one in its two debates with Utica College at Union last Saturday. Union's affirmative team, Klaus Eppler and Ralph Friedbauer, won; the negative team, Monroe Silverman and Law- rence Levine, was tied by Utica. The topic was \Resolved: that the non\Communist nations shoul'd form a new Internationill organiza- tion.\ ON WEDNESDAY, Dec. 6, two teams debated before the Lion's Club of Schenectady on the same Law Group to Hear Dean A.B.Clements of lettuce was sold that first day, enabling the Co-op to declare a total of two cents dividend. Un- daunted, our heros moved their stand to the more lucrative sand- Dean .Andrew V. Clements O'f wich field in Hale House. Students .Albany Law School will address and faculty rushed to the stand. the Pre-Law Society tonight at: SaleS were fabulously sensational! 7:30 in the English Reading Room. Glenn Burton Dana, librarian, a His topic .will be \Ethics and the. malnutrition borderline case was Practice of Law.\ given immediate aid, today his This is a regularly scheduled ruddy complexion and healthy meeting of the Pre-Law Society stature are a living testimony of and all members plus those inter- the great work the co-op is doing. ested in the profession of law are Sa:les were so good Wednesday that invited to the meeting. Louis the co-op had a gl'oss profit of four Hoornbeek, president, will p1•eside. cents, making a total gross profit of six cents. SECONDLY, Professor Stanley· has been doing much intensive study on the works of Plato. He believes that Plat9 is the \biggest boy\ i}l philosophy and also is the one who throws· the most light on this administrative logic. In line with this he has enrolled as a pupil in Professo-r Coffin's elementary Greelf., class this year. Professor Stanley spends his remaining time on one of the fundamental philo- sophical problems, the value ques- tion: that is what do we do when we communicate with each other, or, put another way, what is (Continued from Page 1) peting for . prizes and scholarships, and saving for years ahead. topic. The affirmative was Roge> Fenwick and Richard Lee, the Ski. dmore Group negative Silverman and Levine. · · · · Since Mr. WU!iam South, din- ing hall manager, had allowed the group to use his premises rent free, the cooperative voted to give \The family should be willing to contribute during tP,e college years at least the equivalent of the cost Tonight a negative team from T p t p} Union, Lee and Donald Guder will 0 . resen : ay debate at R.P.I. of room and board at home, either On Monday, WRUC will broad- from current Income or from sav- cast an intra-society debate on the ings. If the ·student is really de\ topic, \Resolved: that the atomic serving, the college will help wit'!].· bomb should be use-d in the Korean . scholarships or grants in aid, work· .conflict.\ Barry Traub and Klau:;; opportunities and loans. No stu- Eppler wil !take the affirmative, dent should hesitate to borrow up. Richard Rothschild and Alfred Cl • f to a thousand dollars to finance a Kingon the negative. Two teams a -Im Pro s college education; he will do it will debate before the Exchange . . laterto purchase an automobile, Club of Schenectady on Tuesday. and the education ·should last Abet Cribbing :~n;:fu~~an the car, and appreciate Professors are largely respon- \THE QUESTION is not so sible for student cheating, Chester much: can deserving students fin\ Wanen Quimby, visiting professor ance a college education without of English Bible at Ohio Wesleyan effort? but rather: what do they University, said in a letter to Life and their families consider most important in life-a day at the NOTICE Students wishing to occupy their dormitory rooms during the Christmas Vacation are re- quested to register their names with Miss Flemin.g in the Busi- · ness Office. \Dark of the Moon~', a play by Berney and Richardson, will be presented at Skidmore College on December 14, 15, and 16, at 8:15 p.m. in the Little Theatre on Re- gent Street, Saratoga.. • Admission is 60 cents for unreserved seats and $1.20 for reserved. Sales Interview Robert R. Lassiter, Jr., a repre- sentative .of the Continental Can Company, Inc. of New York City, Will interview IIi.id ·year S!lniors for sales training program. Mr. Las- siter will be at Wells House De- cember 13 • .All appointments must be made in advance. magazine. that races or a month in college, a new : Professor Quimby wrote car or a new personality? Of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ professors invite it by: course educatioil demands some j' --~ --- --~ 1. Our own stupidity. .Any pro- sacrifice, but what worthwhile .... - ... _._ }'! •.. )!11. fessor who gives the kind of quiz that can be passed by cribbing off achievement is ever with<mt some the cuff., etc. isn't quite l:tright. hardship? It certainly is a hard• 2. What we expect from the stu- ship for the colleges, in days of dents -in an e:xami'nation. All sem• spiraling costs in every area, to hold. tuition down and at the same ester he has been toting thick text- books in some half-a-dozen sub- time pay living wages to their jects. in addition he ha::i class lee- staffs.\ tures and collateral assignments. Pointing <nit that Schenectady, No minds, however brilliant, can as an industrial center, is in ex- absorb so much information in so -pensive place in which to live·, Dr. short a time. Yet the .student is Davidson said that Union College, exected to enter an examination in order to compete in the market blind, while the professor, who has f()r \top-flight teachers,\ must be confined himself to one field, has able to pay s!J,laries above the aver- all along relied on his notes. He .age.\ To .tnis end be suggested would \flunk\ without them. that, after certain present commit- 3.. The artificiality of the whole !Dents are met, \a good share\ .of examination system. The student the annual college gift fund be ·ap- ia supposed to lm.ow the answers plied to raising the levei of faculty to any question, sight unseen, salaries. Frank Bailey, treasurer thrown at him. But in life the .of the coUege, and Thomas W. La- lawyer may consult his legal notes, ·mont, he said, \have shown the the physician can refer to his way by establishing endowed pro- medical books • . . fessorships; additional gifts and ~~-o bequests from individuals must be C G , C encouraged.\ hoir To Jve oncert ''I ALSO JJELIEVE/' said Dr. The Union College Choir will pre- Davidson, \that the great founda- sent a concert at the Granville tions, such as the Carnegie, the Baptist Church on Sunday evening. Rockefeller and the newly activ- PHONE 4•2544 New Location MINHAN'S Men's Shop CLOTHING - HATS HABERDASHERY 259 State Street Mlnhan Harrison Schenectady, N. Y. L 8. BALfOUR 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES ~ BINGB - l!'AV~BS JEW'ELR.Y LEATlDI!B G-Jl.!T8 STA.TIONEBT - PBOG&UIB CLUB PINS • :K:EYS MEiJA.IJ!J - TBQPIIIDI Write or call CARL SORINSIN 80 HlJ.I'i'ay A't'8. WallerlGI'd, N.Y. I'HONE TBOY.......ADAII8 i-1111 BASS SKI BOOTS $27.95 also Dartmouth NorthlancJ Groswolcl .After the removal of De Togni, Earl B. Zimmer, Jr., was elected lord high moderator but was also removed from office after serving thirty seconds. The position will remain vacant until the next meet- ing, with Vaughn A. White, lord keeper of the great seal, as acting chairman of the group. SEVERAL ~LIAMENTARY 'authorities with the Jolly Boys have stated, how ver, that De- Togni may still legally hold office because - the meeting was not opened with song as provided in the standing rules. Joseph R. Gabriels, an inactive member of the Jolly Boys, was re- cently elected to the Union Col- lege Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. Meeting the gang to discuss a quiz -a date with the campus queen- or just killing time between classes -tbe Hasty Tasty is one of the favorite places for a, rendezvous £o:r stndents at the University of Wis- consin. At the Hasty Tasty, as in university campus haunts every· wh.ere, a frosty bottle o£ Coca-Cola is always on hand for the pause that refreshes-Coke belongs. THE CONCERT will include. a ted Ford Foundation, could db Christmas antheoos, spirituals, re- nothing mor~ important to the ligious hymns and classics. Solos futm::e of .American education than will be: 1 'Is It E;lnough,\ ·oy Fred- to aid in the establishment of pro· erick Conklin; \My Way Is' fessol'ships in important .fields. Our· . Cloudy/' bS\ Robert Murray; and tax laws now make it l;mth legal two organ solos by Dr. Elmer Tid- and desirable for corporations to·. marsh, \Evensong hY Schumann give some of their income to col- &OLD STOCK'S Sporting Goods Flexible Flyer Atk for it either way •.. bot~ and \Toccata by Widor. :leges; what is more suitabie than .. This concert is the first preced- the support. of a professorship serV- ing .,the choir's anrtuai Christmas; ing the science and economic prob- progi'am to be presented .this year i lems most closely related to the in- on Sunday, December 17. • dustry ?\ 121 N. Broadway-Cor. Franklin SKIS trade-marks mean the same thing. BOTILED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE ,coc,a...coLA COMPANY BY 'it:HilNECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTUNG COMPANY © 1950, Tho Co<o·Cola Company

',1 4 Tossin' Around !!:=:=:::: By Don Schwartz =- The Associated Press and Look· Magazine recently announced All- America football squads first teams of 22 men. The American selectors are fin- ally c o n c e ding the fact that un- limited substitu- tion h a s m ad e specialists out of what were form- erly GO minute players. The latter type is dIs appearing. A few diehards such as Johnny Lujack, Vic Janowicz, Bob Wil- liams and on our own team, Chuck Abba, Bill Snyder, Bob Fletcher, and Randy Oram. and. others re- main but on the whole, the com- plete; all al'Ound football player ~s disappearing. Those two All Amen- ean teams clearly pointed that out. They pointed something else out, too. That is the futility of trying to pick an All American team for over 600 football teams playing varying sch~dules and varying types of footbalL A good back be- hind a good line playing good op- position can't fail to be named as an All American. He will if he has a good college publicity staff baclt- ing him. If he gets his pict~re. on the cover of Life at the begmnmg of the season, he'll be an All American whether or not he shows ~up for any games. Football Is getting tremendously complicated and each player is a specialist. I fully expect All Amerl- oan single wing and \T\ formation teams within ~ few years. After that they'll name an offensive team for a trap play on the tackle, right halfbacl~: carrying on third down with 2 to go inside the 30 when you're trailing by 6 poin~s and 4 minutes to go before the half and a defensive unit to stop a stutter play with the left halfback carry- ing on fi.rst down. The selections have come a long way since the days of Walter Camp when you had to be at a Rig S School to be considered or have the name E. A. Poe, Princeton '05. I recently asked Sam Hammer- strom to vote for an All-Opponents team and he refused for about the same reasons I listed above. He agreed with me that their only justification Is that they're go~d copy and they stir up interest m the sport. Hammerstrom expanded on the theme by saying it was impossible to pick an aU-anything .team w.ith- out knowing the spec1fic assign- ments of each of your opponents. A backer up might make a lot ~f tackles but he might leave 1us sector unguarded for a pass attack. Nevertheless, a segment of the lettermen responded to a request to pick a team and we present it to you. This dos not represent the sentiments of th~ whole team, but it does include a good number of them: John Gol'lllan (Hobart) and Pete Callahan (Wlllla.ms) at the ends·; Bron Fargo (Wllliams) a.nd Bill CUsack (Hobart) at the tackles; Brian Leach (St. Lawrence) and Walt Collllol'S (Middlebury) at the guards; Dlclt Kraft (Willia.ms) at center; Jack O'Laughlin (St. Law- rence) at quarterback; John Kul- sar (Williams) and Ralph Cardillo (Hobart) at halfbaeks; tand Jerry Dales (Rochester} at fullback. Gorman Connors, Cardillo, and Kulsar w~re tide as leading point getters while Dick Gumerlock, Hamilton halfback, had the same for Choicest Christmas Gifts for Everyone FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8. r950 Swimmers Ready For Continentals Stretching for Height Intra Cagers , Begin Action By Irwin Barg The 1950-51 swimming season .gets underway at Union College when Ray Mullane's mermen take on the invading Hamilton team in Foote pool, on Wednesday afternoon. Many of the Union swimmers will get their first varsity compe~i­ tion in this meet, and it might be indicative of how they will fare aga.inst the strong Williams squad which they face a· week from Saturday. THE GARNET crew beat Hamil-1$>·-------------- ton twice last year by big margins, s t T • 5 6-19 and 57-18. While we can ex- COU , S IpS pect a good performance by the Union team, the score could be much closer than last year. For On Foe \5\s one thing, Union lost a large num- ber of their key men and Hamilton With the basketbal serson hard has picked up some promising new swimmers. In particular, they have a new breaststroker who is ex-· pected to push Diamond, Geismar and Co. Mullane has been particularly upon us following Union's t1·iumph over Middlebury last Tuesday, it. might be well to take a look at· the hoop outlook for a few oof the optimistic about some of his sopho- Garnet's opponents. The intramural basketball season : got off to a roaring start last Mon.~ : day evening as Alpha Delta Phi, Del'ta Chi, and Kappa Alpha won hard fought tilts. IN THE INiTIAL game Alpha Delt led by little To·ny De Belloy . racked up 25 points to down a '·scrappy Phi Sigma Delta quintet. At 8 o~clock Chi Psi rolled over . Delta Chi to tb.e tune of. 24-12. In the nightcap Kappa Alpha subdued the Cadavers 48-15. December 6 saw action renewed as Kappa Sigma hooped 23 count- .· ers to Psi• Upsilon's 17. Phi' Delta :Theta crushed Theta Delta Chi 45- , 10. In the closest game this sea- . son Delta Upsilon eked out .a 19-15 . victory over the Half Pints. To- . night the Snerzi'gs meet Phi Gam- ma Delta, the FacuHy jousts the . Jolly Boys, and Sigma Phi tilts Delta Phi', . ART LAWRENCE, Director of . intramural ·basketball has issued a · statement concerning the independ. ent teams. \No f-raternity !hen , will be allowed to play with inde- pendent teams and violati<;m of that rule will result in that frater- nities suspensio·n from the intra- mural activity. ---o--~ : Guess for W·eeds The second basketball score mores and the chances for a .sue- WESLEYAN: The Ca1·dinals cessful season rests largely on have only four remaining letter- their shoulders. Phil Metzger, who men. However, a hustling group did very little diving last year, is of sophomores have heighter.ed shaping up into a fine diver. Guy Coach Johnny Woods' hopes for a Cooper has shown a great deal of ·successful season. Co-captains promise as a 100 and 220 man. He Larry Scanlon and Bill Stewart . had practically no previous experi- will lead the squad,Scanlon at a ence before last season. Werner forward position and Stewart in Reiners has a big pail: of shoes to a guard spot. Height will be a fill In taking over Dan Mead's factor, the tallest starter reaching backstroke slot. , on.Jy 6 feet 2 inches. It is expected BOB DORSE and Dick Stark are that the Wesmen will use their working hard to fill the places left usual zone defense this season. by Mike Sarna! and John Berbert Pete Nistad's charges cuffed Wes- in the dash ranks. Looking to the leyan, 63-43, last year. \One thing about ole Pete-he sure knows how to build basketball players.\ · gUessing co·ntest, sponsored jointly by the concorCJ.iensis and Chester- field cigarettes, wili be held for the Union,..Hamilton game on Saturday, December 16. ANY UNION COLLEGE ,student i·s eligible to enter the contest and may do .so by submitting an, entry future, most of the squad that M17l- VERMONT: The Catamounts lane is building up Will return agam have an all veteran starting five for at least one more season. There which has brought a gleam to are only four seniors on the team. Coach Buzzy Evans' eye. The open- Winter Sports Schedule with his name and address .and the final score. Entries may be left at the office of the Concordiensis any time before Saturday noon, Johnson, who graduates in Janu- ing lineup averages 6 feet 1 inch Varsity Basketball ary, Diamond, Walt Gross and Bob in height, -with forward Keith Jarrett. Galli the big man at 6 feet 5 Dec. 9-at Williams. Last year's swimming team was inches. The outside shooting of Dec. 13-at Wesleyan. unique in several ways. It had four Nick Mostorelli, a transfer from Dec. 16--Hamilton. men graduate who were captains Champlain, should add to the during their careers at Union. Jim team's attack. The Vermonters Dec. 20-Vermont. Courter, a veteran freestyler, was weren't 0 llthe Dutchmen's sched- .Jan. 12-at Hobart. captain of the 1947-48 squad. Joe ule last year, but in the 1947-48 sea- Jan. 13-at Rochester. Tofel and Mike Sarna! were co- son the clubs split two contests. Feb. 2-at St. Lawrence. captains of the 1948- 4 9 team, and RPI: The big Io·ss on this year's Feb. 3-at McGill. John Berbert captained the team of Rensselaer club is Ed Zenox who last season. Each of these men featured the Poly attack for three Feb. 7-Amherst. were record holders of their events years. However, Coach Ed Jucker Feb. 10-Brooldyn Poly. at one time or another. isn't crying the blues for he has Feb. 14-at RPI. DICK JOHNSON, who will grad- three starters hac:\{ along with two Feb. 17-Stevens. uate in January, will be a big loss first ilne reserves from the 1949-50 to Mullane. He has had a lot of club. Captain Frank Murphy and Feb. 21-Champlain. experience at competative diving Bob Halloran, both over 6 feet tall, Feb. 23-at Hamilton. and currently holds the record for are at the forwards. 6 feet 6 inch Feb. 28-RPI. diving, after haven broken his own Ken Martinx will hold forth in the T 1 d t . N t only has Mar. 3-at rin ty. recor s many 1mes. o pivot position, while Bruce Cardell he been tops in competition, but he and Bill Morse, two, top notch out- has been invaluable in training new side shooters, are in the guard F)'eshml\n Basketball Feb. 17-Albany State Frosh. December 16. Feb. 23-at Hamilton .J. V. The contest is bein.g held for Feb. 2~RPI Frosh. most of the Union home basketball Mar. 3 -at Albany Business Col- games. First prize, for the guess closest to the final score; is 6 paqks lege. of Chesterfields. Second prize, for Varsity Swimming Dec. 13-Hamilton. Dec. 16--Williams. Jan. 10-Roochester. Feb. 9-at Fordham. Feb. 10-at CCNY. Feb. 16-at Hamilton. ]feb. 17-at Rochester. Feb. 24-Boston University. Feb. 27-University of Massa.chu- settes. Mar. 3-at RPI. Freshmen Swimming the second closest guess, is 4 packs of Chesterfields. THE WINNERS of the first con- test held .for the Union-Middlebury game were David Berley first pri~e, and Frederick Devan, second. ·Serving Union's Men For Yea·rs See your agent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS divers. Johnson, along with Mul- slots. lane, is currently working on Metz- RPI and Union split two con- tests last year, the Garnet taking an overtime victory in the fir(>t, 64-58, while the Trojans romped to a 62-45 triumph. Feb. 3-at Cobleskill Aggies. Jan. 12-Troy YMCA. Phone 4-5676 ger and junior Roger Hancher. number of votes as Dales and O'Laughlin, but they played dif- ferent backfield positions. ATTENTION! UNION MEN! • Leave your Laundry with us. Call for it at your Convenience • One Hour Service • WE DO ALL THE WORK Shirts Finished 17 c 3 Day Service Suits Clean·ed and Pressed - 89c <.c,\ \\\ G H 0 ll,r. ~\ ((' • • ~ ~ r- ....... 7' ::s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ /4 UN\)~'\~ BRITE-WAY LAUNDROMAT 3 Blocks from Campus on Union Street Feb. 7-Albany Business College. Feb. 14-at Albany Academy. 114 State St. near Ferry Feb. 10-Cobleskill Aggies. Mar. 3-at RPI Frosh. Feb. 14-at RPI Frosh.M ~=a:=r.:._. _7:_-~Al=b=a:::.n:.::y~A.:.ca=d:.:elm=~Y ·:_ ___ ..2::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ A Study In Arrow Shirt-o .. Iogy $3.65 up A Campus-favorite collar styles .•. made as only Arrow can make 'em. B Every shirt Sanforized-Labeled , . . less than 1% shrinkage! Long wearing fabrics. C Mitoga tailored ••• cut with easy tapering from shoulder to waist . , . no waistline bunching! D Extra durable buttons firmly anchored on. ARROw SHJ!RTS & Tl.ES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHffiFS • SPORTS SHIRTS I, \ • LOOK YOUR BEST- ALWAYS! You're Always Right \PAR\ :fii}): \IN \DOVER\ ;'DART\ In an Arrow White! Oxford $3.9S Broadcloth $3~65 You'll always be dressed right in an Arrow white shirt ••• first choice with college men everywhere! Regular, button-down, and wide~ spread collars. Sanforized-labeled of course Come in for yours today. ' • NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE S.TREEt Su Poi~ Setj Fresh fr bury Pantl looldng for encounter night~ Th with UnioiJ HOPING thrilling 50~ :Ephmen, Go probably go started the season. Jim p~ayed all. o openei' a:lon1 f)oor game, elected. .cap and caenn troubl~ in j Bob Faubel, .Jast year, ar• However J.1 men of equa warts as Bil Pomeroy arE ·starting lim to.r also has Munay ·an< It .is expect will see ac men. STILL,-tl always· seen their own co is expected. against the Speidel who this year's 1 Davis were year's victoJ hand· to hal Rolling u Union com cagers wa:l Panthers 1: Tuesday ni! to o.pen thei high score 77-41 in 19~ dlebury tea: SHOOTll acy the G: points with few minul:j 15-10: advar ter, Jim < scoring wit three foul was a dou entered the taped a:tid performanc He seemec hit for se, field gouis five· out o scoring, be fouls early Warnick lected foUl test, War: with som< Kinns .sho, curate .she and outsid AFTER who found minutes oJ sco1·er of named, Ca: with his ' cumulate·d games las Also con of the st Pmne1•oy because < who mana while Sc O'Lqughlil O'Loughlii with only play butl THE Gi the play a halftim• 57-31 afte1 20-10 in culminate points ip. coaches's out the c• Wate Fred : student i of Scotia tain of t: team, Ki today. H• KANT4 bless.ed \1 shot, but hand. H1 fraternit; LaMay year to 1 He had perience, had play ing his El..AYJ team is America· Brodyw his frat. Kantor Brody v ID8l!COt inent At

so a . In wed 45~ sea- To- t.he of a of core the dent and ntry the left for aqks , for acks con- bury Watch Out, CCNY Fred Ka.ntor, U'niori exchlt.Ilge student to St . .Andrews University of Scotland, has bee:n named call~ tain of the St. .Andrews basketball team, King (}eorge . VI announced today. :He suc!Jeeil,s ]jld LaMay, KANTOR, 20 years old; is blesaed with afine left hand,ed hook shot but he can shoot with 'either hand. He was a sUbstitute on hiE! fraternity basltetball team last year: · LaMay captained the Scots last year to the Scottish ch£1.ID!Jionship. He had no. previous ba~etbaJl ex- perience, to speak .of. However, he. had played football and track dur~ ing his sopho)nore year at Union. E:r..AYING with Kantor on. the· team is Howard Brody, anotl).er American delegate to Scotland: Brody was on the starting !lve with his fraternity team · Jast year, but Kantor lias come along rapidly. Brody will actua:Uy make· a better' mascot tl;lan a.p layer, . Coach Cle- ment Attlee revealed •. ' • Watches, Jewelry Clocks ~epaired • Engraving, too! :Jay Jewlery c~o. .. We Have Them if its Slacks or Pants 1000 pairs to pick from. ROCHESTER PANTS STORE (New Location) 116 BROADW Y between State a Engineers Wanted for COLLEGE, UNIVERSITIES and INDUSTRIES AERONAUTICAL CIVIL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL CHEMICAL . Headships open for Ph.D's 50 in all climates and Masters with outstanding records. Several openings Pay $8,000. Also Need Science and Business Administration Men CLINE TEACHERS AGENCY I'NC: East Lansht«J, Mh:h. , Captain Abe Lakshin Lauded for Teamwork The famous Rose Bowl Seats 95,000 people. Yet it would take More than ten Rose Bowls To hold All the parents And merchants And farmers And everyday people In all walks of life Who are Bell ~ystem stockholders. About 975,000 people-including 200,0QQ telephone employees- Have invested A part of their savings In the telephone business. It's their money T~at helps make possible This country's Top-notch telephone service- A service vital to our National defense effort. .. . . • : : Re==i -=-=11n . • •; . . . :n.: .. :·ll • . . . :.:. - •, .. • lULL TELEPHON;E SYSTEM 5

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950 Much of • • • • • To Make To the Virgins EKam!nations will be held in the~----==--------------~----~~---------~----------------------------~~~-;----------------..-- Gymnasium unless otherwise di- THURSDAY 1:80-4:30 P.M., SATURDAY 1:30-4:80 P.M., E. 37a (Term 7 EE Seminar) in S.S. 41a (Governmental Econ. E. 27a 3 <Thermodynamics) in. OE JAN. 20. EE 16. Policy). 301 & 30 . rected. JAN. 18. Final examinations in Drawing History 22a (Renaissance & Re- 1a and 3a will be given during the formation, 1400-1648). last class periods. History 27a <Modern & Contem- Conflicts in examinations should porary England 1689 to the Pre- be reported to Miss Bouck in the sent). ' Dean's Office before Friday, Jan. Government 48a (State & Local 5, 1951. Govt. in Practice). THE EXAMINATION schedule Philosophy 34a (Americ\\n Phil- as released by the dean's and regis- osophy). trar's offices follows: Biology 13a (Heredity). MONDAY 8:30-11:30 A.M., JAN. 15 Geology 14a (Paleontology) in Al·t 25 (Architecture) G.L. 21. Econ. 43a ( Prin. of Marlieting) E. 40. (00E1). in EE 22. FIUDAY 8:30-11:80 A.M., JAN. 19. s.S. 55a (Techniques & Ideology>. M~s!c la (H!st. & Apprec. of Chern. 1a (Genera:!), Sec. 5 & 7 Muslc). in EE 22 English 22a (The 18th Century). Ch · 2a <General) (BS in History 32a (Social & Intellectual Che~~.' Hist. of the U.S.). Chern lla <Quantitative An- Govt. 47a (The Role of the U.S. alysis) · in World Politics). Che~. 21a (Physical). Biology 12a <Botany). Chern. 22a (Physica!J. Chern. 25a (Advanced· Analyti- cal). MONDAY 1:3o-4:30 P.M., JAN. 15 Physics 33. (Atomic Physics). Greek 21a <Advanced Course). E. 31a (Structures-Term 7 CE). . French . lOa <Introduction to E. 31b (Structures-Term 8 CEJ. French. L1t.l. . . FRIDAY 1:30-4:30 P.M., JAN. 19. .spamsh lOa \Spamsh-Amencan History la (History of Western Llt.). . Civilization) Sec. 1, 2, 5 in EE 22. Econ. lla <Elementary, Sec. 1 Philosophy 17a (Introduction to & 3 in EE 22. . Philosophy). Econ. 39a \Money & Bankmg). s.S. lOa (Logic & Scientific E. 39a <Water Suply-Term 7 ~ethod). CE>. Education 4a <Education Psych. E. 39b <Sewerage-Term 8 CE). & Gen. Pr!n. of Teaching). E. 47. (Engineering EI~ctronics). E. 28a (Railt·oad & Highway E. 48. (Power Electromcs). surv.). E. 49. <Communications). SATURDAY S:S0-11:30 A.M., TUESDAY S:S0-11:30 A.M., JAN. 20. JAN. 16. English BOa (American Liter- English 12a (Public Speaking): ature). . English 23a <The RomantiC French la <Elementary). Period). French 2b (second Year-2nd History 33a <The U.S. in the 20th sem.). Century). German la (Elementary). Economics 49a <Business Statis· German 2b (Second Year-2nd tics). sem.). Chern. 12a <Organic). Spanish 1a (Elementary). Geology la (General). Spanish 2b (Second Year-2nd Art 20a (Hist. & Apprec. of E. 37b .(Term 8 EE Seminar) in • Chern. 30: (Advanced Physical).. E. 34. (A.C: Machinery) (Term Painting & Sculpture). EE 16. · Physics 21. (Electricity & Mag-. 7 EE). Jjlcof\. 52a (Economic Theory). MONDAY l:S0-4: 3 0 P.M·., .JAN. 22. · netism). E. 41. (A.C. Machinery) (Ter~ Psychology 1a (General)\. Econ. 37 a (Prob. of Labor & Psych. \12a (Statistical Methods). 8 EE). Psychology lla (Psychology of E. 25, (Soil Mechanics). · A • Personality). Indus~ Mgmt,). · E. 44. (Machine Design). WEDNESDA'¥ l:S.,;.,.:SO P.M., E .. Science 50a (An Approach to• E. 45 . (Basic Structures). JAN. U. . 23. (Electrical Engineering Modern Science). s 1 h Lit t th Theol·y). • Educ. Sa (Hist. & Prin. of Edu- ,WEDNESDAY 8:80-ll:SO A.M., Spanish. 20 a ( pans , ' 0 e MONDAY 8:80-11:30 A.M., JAN. 22. JAN 24 Golden .Age). cation). • • E:istory 16a (History of the· French 20a (French C!v. of the E. 20a (Mech. of Materials for· English lla (Radio Writing & United States>. 19th Century). Term 5 CEh . Production). Econ. 40a (Accounting). French 21a (The Age of Enlight- E. 26 a (Mech. of Materials for. Sociology 31. (The Individual & Econ. 46 a (Advanced .Aceount• enment). Term 5 EE). His Society). German 5 (Scientific). TUESDAY 8 : 3 0-ll\:SO A.M., JAN. 23 , S.S. 50a (Social & Political Phil.), incg)h.em. 26 . (Advanced Organic). History 21a (Modern & Contem- · · 1 Bioi. la (General). porary Europe: Germany & Russia French 211 ~Second Year~ st · Bioi. 11a (Zoology & Camp.. Geology 12a (Gilol. & Physl- in Europe, 1815 to the Present.) sem . .). Anatomy of Vertebratesl. ograpl1y of N.A.} in G.L. 23. Econ. 45a (Public Finance). French 11 (Conversation;). 1st Bioi. 21a (Embryology· ). Psych. 26a (Developmental German 2a (Second Year - p h) ' Mathematics la <Anal. Geom. &· Geology 22a (Economic Geology). syc · · Algebra) Sec. 1 in EE 22; Sec. 6 sem.). to Physics 31. (Advanced Mech- Air Science 3a (First Year Ad- l ·n CE 106 . . German lOa (Introduction vanced) in Dewey Hall anicsJ. · · Mathematics 2a (Trig. & Anal. Modern Germ. Lit.). Geom. or Alg. & Anal. Geom.) German 12. (Composition). Sec. 1 & 2 in EE 22; Sec. 7 & 8 Spanish 2a (Second Year - 1st in CE 106. -sem.). Mathematics lla (D!ff. & Int. E. 21. (Fluid Mechanics) . Calculus) Sec. ·5 in CE 106. :E. 46 (Engineering Economy - Mathematics 12a (Differential Term 7 EE & CE). Calculus). TUESDAY 1:30-4:80 P.M., JAN. 23. Mathematics 22a (Integral Cal- Latin lla (Reading of Selected culus). · Prose). E. 3la <Structural Design-Term Comp. Lit. 25a (Introd. to the 7 CE) in CE 303. Study of Comp. Lit.). E. 31b (Structural Design-Term History 23a (Latin America & 8 CE) in CE 303. the Outside World). SAVE 10% •• -ON FOOD COSTS •• - •• SAYE10o/o NOTT RESTAURANT. AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.--6-9166 \Meet and E·at at EDDJE•s•• 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gat\& Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL T:ICKETS-$5.50 for $5.00 \ • GENERAL HARDWARE • HOUSEHOLD GOODS • PAINTS David Mahoney Company 209 State St., Phone 3-3691 SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 1n JAY STREET Geology 2a (Engineering). sem.). Math. 24a (Geometry). Russian la (Elementary). TUESDAY 1:30-4:30 P.M., JAN. 16. -~E:·~l~l~a~(~A~n~a~ly~t~ic~a~l~M~e~c=h~a~n~i:cs~)~·--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~=:~==~==~==============~~======~====~~~~~~~ Latin la <Elements of Latinl. .r Econ. 38a (Corporation Finance). 'f 129 S. Brandywine Ave., Phone 3-3692 Sociology 18a <Introduction to Social Organization). Sociology 57a <Comparative So- cial· Ir.stitutions). WEDNESDAY 8:30-11:30 A.M. JAN. 17. English la <Freshman English> Sec. 3, 4, 12 in EE 22; Sec. 1 & 11 in CE 106. English lOa <In trod. to English LIU SN•. 3 in EE 22. Eng-lish 21a c Shakespeare). Philosophy 29a <History of Ideas in Western Civ.) Psychology 24a <Applied Psych.! in CE 106. E. 35. <Engineering Law). Air Science 4a <2nd Year Ad· vancedl in Dewev Hall. WF.DNESDi\ Y 1 ;30-4 :30 P.M., JAN. 17. Greek 1a cEiements of Greek!. German 22a C19th Century Lit.J. Govt. 12a t!ntroduction to Govt.J. Govt. 44a c National Poliry For- mation). Biology 22a <General Physi- ology>. Math. 21a <Differential Equa· tlons>. Math. 31a <Advanced Calculus). E. 13 <Elements of Elec. Engi- neering). THURSDAY 8:3o-ll:SO A.M. JAN. 18. English 24a <The Victorian Era). English 25a CThe English Novel). Spanish 11. <Conversation). S.S. 28a (American Co-nstitutional Development L Geol. 24a <Prob. of Geol. & the Hist. & Lit. of Geol.). Physics 4a (Classical & Modeml Sec. 1 & 6 In EE 22. Phy~it's Ha <Topics in General Physics! Sec. 5 In EE 22. Physics 25a CPrinciples of Elec· tronics>. Physics 26. <Introduction to MaK- well's Field Equations). THE ACME BARBERSHOP 509 UNION ST. • \Where the Service is a Pleasure\ {Nearest to the Campus) LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy P rescri pfions \The Colll!lge Students Drug Store\ Chemicals - Drugs Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET .... YES ... Compare Chesterfield with the brand you've been smoking ... Open a pack .•. smell that milder. Chesterfield aroma. Prove- tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder. Now smoke Chesterfields-they f1!! smoke milder, and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE. Arou The CIO l Electrical W a wage incr• Electric, W vania Electx union hail st of. V{ag,e COI ative .th1,1.t. ~ reached ir:Q!l pany claims ordinary PI J1ave made the wage a• put into ef: increases ducts. AT THE Tl Pr~tor's: toohniC!llO and Ro~; ing, \Be DaWn•'' staw: \The Jane Wyu Gertrude thespians pointers :Mounteba Tennes!\04 :Mai-ch. ~ roy Isl,lllll mulle:.;; Erie: Ho:r \House • Boris Kf John Cal Dracula.\ radine: ' Ri'l\oli: \S GloriaS1 Dr. Edv chairman: • cil of ec• greater en of the fm: in second! that the e1 on the po: ship ... Novi pare a pl nomic uno do it for ences, w Nourse vii school bisl mentals o ally alwa: curriculun Tuesda~ p.m. has 1 ficlal. \St Schenecta only\ dll' observan~ rea.u of tl sponsorecl through d man by Herrman the busil stage he1 You're lo Durin.g city boa: this we• president eration o tion that pany con cording Iocai Te Duffy,_\ large bu member~ and oth money. done he $15,000 school <l ing De< board v• This WRUC party f Schertec staff oi entertai calling· used o well a: which The lo• refresh! THE being 11 from ~ brary :f from t The cl both t recital! service ering i :Mon1 haif h schedu p.m_u- 4 progra be pre long Christ: pi:odm ot W Christ ste.~iot

FRIDAY. DECEMBER 8. 1'950 6 Much of Time Make Virgins Examinations will be held in the<$1-----------------------------------------------------------------:---------------- Gynu~.asium unles\ uthetwise di- TH\l'RSDAY 1:80-.t:SO P.l\1., I SATURDAY 1:30.4:30 P.nt., E. 37a (Term 7 EE Seminar) in To the • • • • • To S.B. 41a (Governmental Econ. E. 27a (Thermodynamics) in. CE 301 & 303. rected. JAN. IS. JAN. 20. EE 16. Final <Xamination,; In Dt awmg Historv 22a 1 Renaissance & Re- Art 20a <Hist. & Apprec. of E. 37b (Term 8 EE Seminar) in la and 3u will be pwn during the formatic\n 1400-16-18). Painting & Sculpture). EE 16. last class p~t·iucls History 21n !Modern & Contem- Econ. 52a \Economic Theory). Conflk\3 in exdminutlum :;huuld porary En~land. 1689 to the Pre- Ps\chology la \Genet·al). MONDAY 1:30-4:30 P.M., JAN. 22. b t ·' t '1 B 1 · tl ' Econ. 37a (Prob. of Labor & e repur eu o •' tSS uuc t Ill lC ~ent I. Psychology lla \Psychology of Dean's Of fie~ befotl' Ft·iday, Ja.n. L}o\·ernment 48a <State & Local Personality>. Indus. Mgmt.) · - 19\1 I Science 50a \An Approach to a, o . c-;ovt. in Pmcticc). E. 23. <Electrical Engineering Modern Science 1. THE E:\..\.}11:-i .\TIO:'Ii :'!chedule Philosophy 3!a I American Phil- Theory). . Educ. Sa (Hist. & Prin. of Edu- us rl'l•·\\'·d by til<' ti<':w·~ and ret.:!~- osoph~·>. MONDAY 8:30-11:30 A.M., JAN. 22. cation). tr:u ·, offll't·:< follows: Hio!.>\y 13a <ll<'l'c'dityl. French 20a \French Civ. of the E. 2 oa <Mech. of Materials for !\IO:'IilH.Y ll::lO-ll :au .-'..H., JA:'Ii. 15 t},•ulugy Ha 'Paleontology I in 19th centBryl. Term 5 CEl. Art 2c> 'At dut. l'tureJ < ;J •. 21. French 21a <The Age of Enlight- E. 26a \ Mech. of Materials for E\•n. 13:~ ·1'<11 t·f ::\!aJl;ettn!'> E. ·10. <OOEl>. enmentl. in E.E: ~2. FIUD:\Y X::>U-11 :~0 A.:\1., JAN. 19. German 5 <Scientific). Term 5 EEl. 8 .s. 5 ;u 1 Ttdmiques & hie• logy 1 • ::\lusic 1u t Hist. & Apprec. of 1 Hist(}ry 21a 1 Modern & Contem- TlTESDAY 8:30-ll:SO A.l\l., JAN. 23. Ch<'lll 1a •t;l·>:•·J'<.il. B•·e. 5 & 7 ::\lusiel. porary Europe: Gt>rmany & Russia French 2a \Second Year-1st in EIO: ~2 En;.:lish 22a <The 18th Centuryl ·, in Europe, 1815 to the Present.) sem.l. Clwm. ~\ <lit·n•·>al> oBS 111 llistoty 32a;~ociai & Intellectual! Econ. 45a <Public Finance). French 11 !Conversation). Chem.t. Hrst. of tlw l. ~- >. :Mathematics 1a I Anal. Geom. & German 2a <Second Year Chem lla ~~~u:.nt,tatl\'l' An· Govt. ·!7a <The Hule of the U.S. Algebra) Sec. 1 in EE 22; Sec. 6 sem.l. \\ . 1 1 Politt-~\> German lOa (Introduction alysisl. 111 · '' 1 ' •· in CE 106. Htolne:y 12a < Rotanyl. Mathematics 2a tTrig. & Anal. Modern Germ. Lit.). Chem. 2~m • Advanced Analyti- GPom. or Alg. & Anal. Georn. l German 12. I Composition). ChenL 21a 1 Ph~~lt':tll, ChPnl. :.!~a 1 Pby!·:tral '. :1-IONH:\Y 1 :au-I::{U 1'.:\l., .J.-\:'<i. l:i lht'C'l{ ~l.l j . .\d\·:,t~c·t•d l'ullt~t·) Ft·• ·nr h l11a • In t 1 od lit'! Hlll t <> call. Sec. 1 & 2 in EE 2 2; Sec. 7 & 8 Spanish 2a \Second Year - Phy~1cs 33. 'Atomic Physicsl. I in CE 106. sem. >. E 31a •StrurturPs -Term 7 CE).I ;>.lathematics lla tDiff. & Int. E. 21. (Fluid Mechanics). F.. 31lo •StntctUI'L'S -Term 8 CE'., Calrulust Sec. 5 in CE 106 . E. 46 <Engineering Economy 1st to 1st FRIDAY 1 :30--! :30 l'.!\1., JA:'Ii. 19, Mathematics 12a 1 Differential 'Term 7 EE & CEJ. Hi\toty 1a <History vf Wt'strl'U Cnleulusl. 'T\GJo:SDAY 1:30-4:30 P.M., JAN. 23. Cl\·iltz:~tionl St'<\. 1, 2. 5 in EE 22. Mathematics 22a tlntegral Cal- Latin lla <Reading of Selected FrPI\.<'h !.it 1. ~pan1:-::h Itt.1 Lit\ Eefln lla 'Eh-tJit\! tat~·. ~.·c. & 3 in EE 22. Ecun. 3~1a '~l~~nt·!· l\:. Bat1ktllh' E. 3Ua • Watl't ;-;.:pl~ To· <Ill 7 Phtlowphy lia <Introduction to culusl. Prosel. Philos\ph~·>. E. 31a <Stt\uctural Design-Term Comp. Lit. 25a <Introd. to the ::'- S. ll>a • Lo~ie & Scientific 17 CEl in CE 303. Study of Camp, Lit.l. ~ldhotll. \ E. 3lb <Structural Design -Term History 23a !Latin America & l·:,Jucat 11>n b • EJuea lion Psych. g CEl in ('E 303. the Outside World). CE> E 3\~h • :-;t'\\.\t I :L;.:,l' Tt•Jlll ~ CE) E .f;' .. Englnt·t•! :n.t.:: Elt·cll ~~nH·~ 1 E. -1·~ tPtl\\'tl' I·:kltJ11JiiC!\i. & Gen. Pt in. of Teaching l. I~=============================~ E. 2r-ct 'Hatltoad & Highway 1 . Stl! \.) • GENERAL HARDWARE E. ·Hl. 1 Conur:unic~ttlon;-; '. S.-\1THD:\Y 8::~0-11;30 A.M., ,JA:'Ii. 20. • HOUSEHOLD GOODS Tl'ESD.\Y l\::~0-11:30 A.:\1 .. ,J..\:'Ii. 16. En~li::-h l~tt \ Publil' ~pr•aktng '· F.n;.:lt:sh :23a • Th·· Hum antic Engllsb 3llu • A met ican Lit<\<· • t t Ul t·). I Fr ... neh 1a • El,•mentaryl. 1 • PAINTS Ft ••nch 2b 1 ,;pcond Y~ar -2nd · 't•lll.). ! Pt\liotll. Histot y 33:t • TL·· l. S. l!l the· 2\>th David Mahoney Company Cer.tury> Ecunotnic~ l~Ja • l3ll\\llll'!'\':-< Z:.tat ~~- German la <Elementary). t-;,,rman 2b <Sect.nd Year 2nd tlcs l. sPnL) I 209 State St .• Phone 3-3691 Spar,i~h 1a <Elementary). Spani~h :lb <Second Year- 2nd I I Clll'tn. 12n •Or;.:anicl. GPt·lu:..;v la ,(;pr:t·tul). G£'oln).!;. !2a 1 En~..:l nt·Ptlng l, !lhth. :24a 'G<'Ulllt'ltyl. ~cm.l. 129 S. Brandywine Ave., Phone 3-3692 TCESD:\ Y 1 ::~o-t ::HI P.:\I., ,JA:'Ii. 16. Latin l:l •Ek·lllNl!~ of Lattn• Econ. 3Sa 1 C'orpm at ion Financt'l. Soctolog-y 1 '-a ' I nt t o<iuct iun to Socinl Ot~.:nnizatt\n '· Soci' ·)o:... y ~~7.1 •l \•rll~l;\1·:, tiVt' ~o­ f\inli~-~tltlt•~·~n..;l WI-~DSI·:SU.-\Y ~::W-ll::W .-\.:\1. ,J:\S. 17. En~li-h 1:t • Fr••shm:tn E\gll>h 1 S•·<\ ~. 1. 12 in EE ~2: ::'ot·r· 1 & 11 in C'E 1>11; Engl\h 111:1 'Intr\d ttl En:..:l<:'h Llt ' ~···· :1 ln r·~E ::~ F.n~}J..:h ::?l~l • ~ll:tlu·• ... pt a1 t·l PhJin..;npl':v !!~Ia • Hl-;t.pt \\ ot ldPa~ in \\'p,:tet·n C'i\' 1 P:o:\TllolnL!'y ~la • ..\ppllt .. d }J~\Ttl • tn C'E 1M E 3;,_ • Er:....:ILPI'I Jnl! Law 1 .A:r ~rit•nc•• Ia • ~nd Yt.•:-u· Ad \'1r.r·prjl in fl•·\\'•'\' H:dl WJ-:Il:'oi F\'IH Y I ::~11--t ::HI 1'.:\1., .1:\:'li. I 7. (Jp•t·l< 11. • Elt-mt·nt~ of t;rt·Phl. (1,•rnrtn :.!::a • H•th CPntuty LI! .. t (;o\'t. l2a • lt·t rodt;etu n tu t;o\'t. ~ rrrwt. ·HG ');· .. tionnl l'<>lt<·~· Fot- mRtinnl Bioln;:\.' ~~n < L:Pnc·nll l'hy~l­ olnR\.'1. :Math. 21a • fliff>'t~ntial Equn· tiors>. Mntll 3Ja • A·!\·nr.r• d C'akuill:'' E. 13 'El~ment.,; uf Ei··~ . .E:np- nef'tingl. THl'RSilAY l!:ao-11 :30 A.:l-t. JAS. 1!1. En;:l!sh 2la •Tht· \\i..t<winn Et:>>. Envlt~h 2~a 'Th<' En12li\h SO\'o•lt. Spa.nish 11. • Con\'<'r5fltion I. S S. 2~n •Antf':·i~nn Cl n~titutional Di'\'t·ln)•nH\-n! > Gcnl. 2ta •Ptoh of(;,.,.] & \liP Hist. & Lit. of G~ol ) . Physics !a < C!nsstcnl & :\lod<'l'll 1 Sec 1 & G in EE ~2. Ph\''i~!\ 1ln < Topir< tn < :t·nPr:tl Physics' SPr. 5 in BE 22 Physirs ::?~:t 'Pt mcip!<'~ of ElP<'- tTonil's 1. PhysiC's 2ti. • Jr.troductiun to l\I:.x- W<'Il·s Ftdd E•tlla t.t<>n\l. THE ACME BARBER SHOP 509 UNION ST. • \Where the Service is a Pleasure\ (Nearest to the Campus) LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy Prescriptions \The College Students Drug Sto.e\ Chemicals - Drugs Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET ~--- J Hu\'tan la <Elementary). E lla 'Aralytkal Mechanics). ·.:·:.·.·. :;lt:·;·THE·- TOJICCO IIOWEII' . aftLDIIta·Btt· . ··,,,,, YIIJi:-a.s·EL:P~-1,~-··· · YES ... Compare Chesterfield with the brand you've been smoking ... Open a pack .•. smell that milder Chesterfield aroma. Prove-tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder. Now smoke Chesterfields- they do smoke milder, and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE. Policy). Chern. 30. (Advanced Physical). Physics 21. <Electricity & Mag- netism). Psych. 12a <Statistical Meth!'ldsl. E. 25. (Soil Mech!lnics). E. 44. <Machine Design). E. 45. \Basic Structures). WEDNESDAY 8:30-11:30 A.M., JAN. 2·1. English lla (Radio Writing & Prcduction). Sociology 31. <The Individual & His Society). S.S. 50a !Social & Political Phil.l. Biol. la <GeneraD. Biol. 11a <Zoology & C!'lmp. Anatomy of Vertebrates). Biol. 21a <Embryologyl. Ge o!ogy 22a (Economic Geology). Physics 31. !Advanced Mech- anics). E. 34. (A.C. Machinery) CTenn 7 EE). E. 41. (A.C. Machinery) (Term 8 EE). WEDNESDAY l:So-4:80 P.M., JAN. 24. Spanish 20a (Spanish Lit. of the Golden Age). History 16a (History l'lf the United States>. Econ. 40a (Accounting). Econ. 46a (Advanced Account- ing). Chern. 26. (Advanced Organic). Geology 12a (Geol. & Physi- ography of N.A.) in G.L. 23. Psych. 26a (Developmental Psych.). Air Science 3a (First Year Ad- v:xnced) in Dewey Hall. SAVE 110% •• -ON FOOD COSTS •• - •• SAVE lOo/o NOTT RESTAURANT. AN\D BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.--6-9766 .. M,eet and Eat at ED.DI~E'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.50 for $5.00 SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 1\i7 JAY STREET Arou The CIO I: Electrical W< a wage incre Electric, WE vania Electri l union has stE of wag.e con ative tha;t a reached lmn pany claims ordinary pr• have made ~ the wa;ge ad put into eff increases ducts. , l AT THE TF. Proctor's: te,chnicoloJ and Rober ing, \Bet Dawn.\ State: \The Jane Wyn Gertrude thespians pointers MountebaJ Tennessee Maroh. T my lslll<IU muller. Erie: Hon \House CJ Boris Ka: John Car: Dracula\ radine. RiV'oli: \St Gloria s\ Dr. Edw chairman o cii of eco greater em of the fun< in seconda that the en on the poli ship ... Now pare a pr nomic undt do it for ences, wE Nourse vis school hist· mentals of ally alway curriculum Tuesday, p.m. has b ficlal \Stli Schenecta( only\ dur observanet reau of th sponsored through d4 man by t Herrman the busin stag(' hea You're loc During city boar this wee president eration of tion that pany cont cording local Te~ Duffy, \I large bus members and oth• money. done het $15,000 school df ing Dec< board vo Ra( Giv This WRUC party fc Schenect staff of entertaii calling 1.: used or well as which 1: The loc refreshn THE being h< from a brary f1 from tl: The ch both tl recitals service ering ii Mond half he schedul pam.,\' prograi be pres long I ChristiJ produc• of Wl Christi station

e OE the Ad- Y. .... t A.round Town TPe CIO International Vn,ion; of. Electrical Workers have asked for a wage increase ;fro!Xl the General Electric, Westinghouse and Syl,. vania. Electric corporations. The union has stated th.at the prospects of. wag,e controis \make it imp~r­ ative fhl;tt. a fairer adjustment be reaci:J.ed iiQ.lllediately.\ Th~ com- pany claims that with the \extra-. · ordinary profits\ tl:le companies ]lave made i!I.Ild \are making . , . the wage adjusttt1e11t . • . caiJ. be put into effect wit:b;OI~t any price increases • .\ in company pro· Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY. N.Y •• FRIDAY. DECEMBER 15, 1950 PRICE 10 CENTS Vol. 78, No. 1l ducts. ~ :(. :to· AT THE THEATERS Proctor's: \The Petty Qirl\ in tecbnicolor with Joa.n Ca.ulfield· and Ro~rt OummJpgs. Also play- . mg. \Between Mi~ht and· DaWn/' Sta.w: \The Glass Menagerl.e\ with Jane W~an, :Kirk Douglas .and Gertrude Lawrence. Potential. thelspians might well gain some· pointers from the :film. 'the Mountebanks plan to ;produce Tennessee W~am's play in. March. The eo-feature is \Pygr- · my JslMld\ With hhnnY Wels- mulle:J;; Erie: Horrors! Horr&:rs galGret \House of . Frankenstein\ with Boris Ka.rloff, Lon Chaney and John Carradine; also, \House of Dra.cul,a.\ with Challey and Ca.r- radine. ' RiV'Gll: . \Snnset BouleV81rd\ With Gloria Swanson. ~ ~ l(o Dr. EdWj.n G. Nourse, former chairman of the presidential coun~ cil of economic advisors, urged greater emphasis on the teaching of the fundamentals of economics in secondary schools. He claimed· that the emp~is to date has been on the poiltical aspects of citizen- ship ... Now \unless the schools pre- pare a program to give us eco- nomic understanding, someone will Photo by Siebbins West College First New Dorm Since 1814 .. ''Comm~ttee Plan Sports Field ,Organizes .For Pasture From Defenses . o c.~.u:.:: .. ~'~::b;om~;':.o:~ House Sale Profit , cooperate with the Schep.ectady .Presi?ent qarter Davidson has announced that a new by President Carter Davidson to Civil Defense Unit in drafting playmg field w1ll be constructed in ·the pasture with the plans to protect . the city. and. meney realized from the sale of the Achilles House. \We , campus from poss1ble atomlO at- hope we can begin work this spring \ he said. , tack. . . .. ' THE COLLEGE unit, which was· THE HOUSE, a twenty room. formed abcmt a week ago, is made s • x• \white elephant'' located on Avon up of Professor Charles B. :Hurd,: 1gma· } . Road, and given as a gift to Union chairman; Professor Anthony deH.. · ·· · College by H. Laurence Achilles, :Hoadley, :Professor Charles T.. former director of religious educa- Male, Sr., and William Mathias. Pt. cks Fl. ve tion here, was old for $10,000. The committee has been making. The athletic field, which will be a study .of buildings on the. Union· built with the proceeds Cas re- campus in order to ascertain which Five students were re- quested by Mr. Achilles) is in- ones would be used as shelters and , c ntl 1 ct d t a · t tended to take the place of Library e y e e 0 ssoCia e Field for foo, tball pract1'ce and 1'n- which could be used in other' b h' . s· Xi t h mem ers lp Ill 1gma , na- tramural sports. Although it is be- aspec s of t e· defense set up. A • series of talks on campus defense bonal honorary science so- lieved that the pasture will be the is being planned for later in the· ciety, according to Professor site of the field it is also possible year, in order to better acquaint Clifford H. Pearce. One pro- that it will be located adjacent to the students with the .problems in- fessor was elected to full the proposed Field House, and will volved in a possible atomic attack. occupy the area which is now . membership in the society. known as Dutchman's Village. \WE DO NOT want to frighten MEN ELECTED to associate When it will be built depends on the students,\ Professor Hurd ex- b h' E mem ers 1p are dward S. Clark, war emergency restrictions, the plained, \but rather to make them Jr., Joseph R. Gal?riels, Frank E. draft, and money which amounts aware of the defense plan which Lord, Nicholas T. Saviano, Jr., and to the difference between the cost I~ now operating throughout the Richard P. Thorn. Associate Pro- of the field and the $10,000 derived country. Schenectady, being a stra- fessor of Psychology Clare. W. from the Achilles house sale. This tegic manufacturing and research Graves was elected to full member- difference may amount to as much center, has a particularly import- ship. as $20,000. ant plS.ce in the system,\ he added. Clark b f D It Ch' , a mem er o e a 1 THE SALE of the house brings do it for us.\ 'From our experi- By Wolcott Hubbell ences, we would sug,gest Dr. In November, 174 freshmen 'd moved into the first new dorm!- .prov1 e space. for the construction Nourse visit some of the local high of n h 1 tory built at Union College s1'nce a ew sc oo · The committee has urged all fraternity, is a BS in chemistry to an end the long controversy be- Union men to read the pamphlet, major. Gabriels, a pre-med, was tween the college and the Avon \You and the Atom Bomb\ which recently elected to membership in· Road residents who fought to re- school history classes where funda- mentals of economics have gener- 1814 - West College. Previously, IT IS INTERESTING to note ally always been included in the North and South Colleges were that the students living in old West is av~;~.ilable in the librs.ry. Phi Beta K{l.ppa. Lord, a member of Beta Eta Upsilon, Saviano and tain the zoning restrictions. Th When acquired in 1948, the col- orn, a member of Kappa Sigma, lege requested permission from the are all electrical engineers. curriculum. the newest dorms on campus, .hav- College had no plumbing facilities If. :fo l(o ing been erected in 1814-15. as well as no adequate heating Tuesday, Dec. 19 from 6 to 9 THE FO~TORY building, ·plant. The boys had to draw th.eir Committee Plans Annual Conference ALL OF THE undergraduates 'city to use the house for the elected are members of the June, Character Research project, but 1951 class with the exception of this was denied under the existing Thorn, who will graduate this zoning restrictions, as was permls· January. sion to use it as a fraternity house. p.m. has been desiguated as the of- which is conveniently situated in water from a spring where ·the flcial \Stag Night'' in downtown the pasture overlooking Seward city library is presently situated; Schenectady stores. It wn be \men Place, is in keeping with campus for heat they used small, inefficient only\ dur~ the second annual architecture. The walls and floors stoves provided by the school. ln observance of the Merchant's Bu- ·are solid concrete slabs held In .spite of such inconveniences, the reau of tlJ,e Chamber of CoJDll1erce place by a massive network of 19th century Union man paid ()n!y sponsored idea. We've disoovered steel girders, and therefore almost four dollars a year for the room; through devious means tha,t a Union soundproof, A a unique radiating whereas the freshman this year ma.n by the name of william H. system adequately heats the dorm; .. must dole out $20() a year for but Herrman has been parading about only the best plumbing fixtures half a room. · the business area adorned m a were. installed. · Unlike the abundant rules hea.ped stage head advertfsmg the event. The name ''West College\ is not on neophytes 150 years ago-no The committee for the Annual Conference. on Business and Indus- try held at Unio-n. College each year, met recently and outlined plans for the 1951 conference to be held Tuesday, Feb. 27. THE THEME FOR the confer- ence will be \What's Ahead for Business, Industry, and Your Community in this National Emer- ·gency?\ The conference is spon- sored by Union, the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Empire State Association of Commerce, an<l the Albany, Amsterdam, Glov- ersville, Saratoga, Schenectady, and Troy Chambers of Commerce. The society of Sigma Xi elects to The property was assessed at associate membership those seniors $30,000 dollars and has cost the who have taken at least half their college lin addition to other head- wot\k in science and engineering aches) $4,000 in taxes. The struc- and have a general index of at ture was sold to a General Elec• least 3.500. Special consideration tric research: scientist who \~ . is given to studeiJ.ts who have expect(s) to- have a big family.\ shown promise of ability iiJJ re- 0 You're looking good, CJld boy! new at Union. In 1804 - at the card pla,ying, no swearing, no l(o :fo 11/o · c.omer of Union and College streets' gaudy dress, no patronage of local search work. Election to full mem- bership in the society usually fol- lows the completion of an original investigation of importance in pure .Ol' applied science. · Harold Heath, James LaForest and William Sallicito, J~uary graduates, were elected to the so- ciety last Spring. Debate Audience Votes To Allow Reds to Teach. During a stormy session at the the first dormitory of that name, a• taverns - the .present freshmen, city boar(! of education meeting three-story, Italian-style structure· outside of l;lass may lead an al- this week, Richard Carmichael, designed by Phillip Hooker, was most entirely unl'estricted life .. president of the Schenectady Fed• completed after six years of build· Card games which would have. eration of Labor, burled an accusa- ing. After 11 years, the edifice was shocked President Nott are .nurn•·: tion that the General Elactric com- sold to the city for use as a cqm- erous, and beer drinking is no pany controls the school board. Ac- bina.tion .city hall, coilTt house, and lo}lger taboo. The new residents, cording to the president of the jail. Unitil 1854, after which the however will be obliged to refrain locai Teachers Association, A. J.' old college was no longer in any from defacing property, to attire Duffy, \It's generally known tlJ.at way connected with Union, the themselves properly at meals, and large. businesses are trying to g;et building changed bands several to observe quiet in the evenings. members on boards of education times-serving both as a dormitory NO LONGER will frosh have to and other groups spending tax a~d as a library. The building was leave their female guests standing money. (But) I can't prove it's then used by the city until 1890 outside while the boys go to their done here ... \ A minimum of ,when it was torn down in order (Continued on Page 4) $15,000 will be divided among school department employees dut\- .------....------------1 ing December,. as a result of a The topic \Resolved: That this ~·>---------------­ :S:ouse believes that Communists· Affa ..• ·.rs £!· ....... tnmt··tte·e should be allowed to teach in To Study Abr· oad Lettuce Back '-\1 American colleges and universities\ · Sam Newcomer's c·rusade G• Ph•} c t was passed by a vote of 44 to 10 D e s bb- t• } against the inflated prices of · IVeS I OS U S at the parliamentary debate spon- Uring a a lea board vote. Rad ' I·o Stati·on san.dwiches in West College pin- The Committee on Student A!- sored by the Philomathean Society . · b Wednesday evening. Helmer 'L. Webb, college li- .. · . _ . · ing Room appears to have een fairs and Relations held a rilee.ting f L . . PROFESSOR Carl A N1'emeyer brarian, is scheduled to beg•.'n a slX' seconded by Klaus Eppler. Prof'es- lettuce and tomato 'have ~one will be permitted a maximum of sor Erwin W. von Schlichten op- Frances Shaver Smith, catalogue Musical Day Set Sunday The twenty-siXth annual Union College Christmas Music Festival will take place on Sund~;~.y in Mem- orial Chapel. THE FESTIVAL is divided into three parts, starting with the morning worship at 11 a.m. The morning pro·goo.m. will be carried by station WGY from 11:05 to 12:00. The program will include the reading of the \Christmas Story\ from the Bible by Dr. War~ ren C. Taylor, and solos by Fred- erick Conklin and Robert Murray. The choir will s!ng many of the traditional Christmas hymns in- cluding \0 'Co-me All Ye Faithful'' and \The First Noel.\ Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will pre- sent his an,nual Christmas organ recital at 4 p.m., accompapied by the choir. Dr. Tidmarsh will play G . • success ul. ettuce agam 1s pre- last Friday and. came UP· wii;b. a · l ·.ves· P· arty sent In sandwiches, but those of . resolution that the Philomatheans proposed the resolution and was months' sabbatical Feb. 1. Mrs. This afternoon, radio station upMr. William South commented tei~ht cutds tphert semt ester ftohr sotchiety posed the motion and was sec- librarian and wife of Professor E. WRUC sponsored a Christmas r1 ps, an a no mo 1 'e an · ree onded by Ralph Fr1'edbauer. S. C. Smith, wil assume supervis. ion that he wishes the matter closed f th t h 11 b · P a.rty for t.h. ~ youngsters at the. 0 ese cu s s a · e m any one Dr. Niemeyer began with the f th l\b · W b b S h and would issue no fut\ther class. o e 1 rary m eb 's a sence. c eli.ecta.dy Children's Home. The statements. :Newcomer, however, THE COMMITTEE also recom- premise that \communism is a WEBB PLANS to do research the well known \March of the Wise Men\ by Theodore Dubois in which a note representing the star which guided the wise men is sustained throughout the entire pie~e. Choir solos will be sung by Conklin and William McDavitt. statff tofi the staftion t&upplihe~d the· revealed that he was quite sat- mended to the athletic department hberesy\ .. dThuds, bnott itsthmerits shouldf in the British Isles during his en er a nment or he c 1 1 ren, • isfied with the results of his that overnight facilities 'be made e consl ere u ra · er means 0 leave. His work stems from a calling upon. their store of material work. a;\a1\lable for ath1etl'c teams .travel- ·combating it. \There are two t 1 . t t 'th used on ·regular broadcasts, as 1 .n.,g a distance of 100 miles Ol' mCJre methods of combating a heresy,\ mu ua meres W1 Dr. Harold well as showing them a movie ·be said. \Supress .it or tolerate it. ·w. Blodgett, chairman of the de- which lasted about half an hour. W k t R so they would not have to return It is difficult to find examples of . partment of English and Thomas The lo()al merchants donated the . Of OU 00ffi immediately to campus. It bas toleration of heresies in history. Lai:nont Professor of English Lit- r f h t f th art T. n· A •• bl since been found out that lack of The usual answer h,as been er.ature. Webb will try to follow e res .men S· or . e p y. . . 0 e· . . val• a e funds in the department bas any clues he might come across to THE CHRISTMAS carols now supression. But heresy so often b i ' stopped any serious thought on the th . . , T t locate material on John Howard e ng heard on campus are coming I. n. a 12 minute meeting, one of'. matter. · · nves .on supress10n. olera ion, P f d 1 · 1 · t i t ayne In England. (Payne, class rom a loU spea ter atop the li- the shortest on record, the student. consideration of a letter award ~ · uxury no every soc e Y can of 1810, and his poem \Home Sweet brary froJI1 music being piped over council a~noun~ed that perinissio.n • for band members was tabied until bear, can effectively oppose heresy. Home\ are honored by Payne from the radio station's facilities. • h~d been rece 1 ved from .Athlehc the Block \U'' society could be \Reason if free, will combat· Gate.) The chapel programs on Sunday, n 1 rector Harold Wittner . for the notified of the request. heresy;· Let us convert the enemy, both the ru;ternoon and evening s.·.tudent use of _the• ha. ndba.n roo.m, ,..,;,....n:>ERS present were Cha'ir· not gag him.\ As with criminals, Webb will also seek English re- 'tals '11 b b d t ... ....,..,&.L> 'th i h' h\ld ac.tion to American literature of Tec1 Wl e roa cas as a 10 .th~ Alumm . G~mnasmm for: man Dean C. William Huntley; as Wl m sc Ievous c 1 ren-we service of WRUC's policy of cov- wrestl.1llg and .working; out.. The President Carter Davidson, Frofes- must rehabilitate. the 19th anc;l. 20th centuries for a THE LAST P AAT o-f the pro- gram will be the traditional carol sing at 7:30 Jed bY Dr. Tidmarsh. He will be accompanied by Miss Helen Henshaw at the organ and Miss Hazel Roberts at the pia,p,o. The popular carol sing is always attended by a capacity cr<lwd and Dr. Tidmarsh advised of an early arrival. Frosh Elect ering important campus events. ·councll is seekmg mor_e equ.Ip.ment. sor W. 1 111 .am W. Bennett, Profeesor PROFESSOR von Schlichten be· survey of Anglo-American rela- M . · d 1 h d · ~ b d fi · c · t tiohl;l. This will also be for work . on ay even ng as on:e an a for .the roox_n. The roo~ w1!1 he. Augustus H. Fox, :Mr; Theodore R. gan Y . e mng a ommums . · half hours of Christmas listening open any time after 2:30~ when . Mcllwaine, Jack J. Fischel, Dun- \Communist party activities, docu- to be done in cooperation with pr. scheduled over ~tJC; At 7:30. the ~acuity. usu.ally works out. . s M . ti A. G raid Sha..,iro ments, etc., all show,~' von Schlich- Blodgett. · · p.m.,. \Centuries ot Chl'ist~a.s\ a THE: COUNCIL found time to· can · ar n, · e · . ., ' ten claimed, \that a membeT of MRS. SMITH had charge of the program of carols and stories, will cohfitm the selecUon of the three and Mr. Wilford H. Ketb. the Communist party is not just a· college library during the war William Morris was elected permanent President of the freshman class in yesterday's elections. Morris polled 47 votes, garnering 28.5% of the votes cast. Morris' closest competitor, Martin Schulman,. rr>ceived 31 . votes for a percentage of 18.8. be presented. At 8:00 p.D;l. an hour-. student prdcters who will in part 0 H. member of a political party like years, wh€n Webb was absent on long, production of Dick:en's \A I comprise the new dormitory boa!'d. Library Vacation .. ours the Democrats or the Republicans. government duty in England. Christmas Carol'.' written .. f9r radio, ;Th. eY ar·e. George C .•. Carter,_ Rowan. The coilege library will Temain Communism is an all inclusive Webb's plans to spend his sab· produced arid direeted by the statl' J. Coyle, and Herbert. E. Rie. open weekdays during the Christ- ideology which governs aU. phases' batical in the British Isles are of of WRUO will round out t~e . The council als9' listened to a re- mas recess from noon untlt i> P·.M. of the lives of a party member.\ course subject to change, depend- Christmas activities for the radio pott of the Committee on Student It will be closed on Satur<)ays and The methods and morality of Com- ing upon. the international situ- sta.1lon. . Affairs and Relations. . Sundays. (Continued on Page 4) atlon. · An increase of vot~s over the last elections was noticed in- sofar as slightly over 50% of the members of the Class of '54 cast ballots. i : ~

the . ental Y. Around Town Vol. 78, No. 11 Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950 PRICE 10 CENTS The CIO International Union of Electrical Workers have asked for a wage increase from the General Electric, Westinghouse and Syl- vania Electric corporations. The union has stated that the prospects of wag.e controls \make it imper- a:tive that a fair·er adjustment be reached immediately.\ The com-. pany claims that with the \extra- ordinary profits\ the companies· have made and \are making ... the wage adjustment . . . can be put into effect without any price increases \ in company pro- Students Study in New Dorm Comm!ttee Plan Sports Field Organtzes For Pasture From ducts. :(. 1(. 1(. Defenses ., House Sale Profit AT THE THEATERS Proctor's: \The Petty Girl\ in. te,chnicolor with Joa.n Caulfield and Robert Cummings. Also play- ing, \Between Midnight and Dawn.\ Sta.te: \The Glass Menagerie\ with . A Union College Committee on Civil Defense has been appointed by President Carter Davidson to cooperate with the Schenectady Civil Defense Unit in drafting plans to protect the city and campus from possible atomic at- tack. President Carter Davidson has announced that a new playing field will l.Je constructed in the pasture with the money realized i'l'om the sale of the Achilles House. \We hope we can begin work this sp1·ing,\ he said. Jane Wyman, lUrk nouglas and· Gertrude Lawrence. Potential thespians might well gain some. · pointers from the film. The Mountebanks plan to produce Tennessee William's play in March. The co-feature is \Pyg\ my lsla.nd\ with J olumy Wets- muller. Erie: Horrors! Horrors galore!. \House of Frankenstein\ with. Boris Karloff, Lon Chaney and John Carradine; also, \House of Dracula.\ with Chaney and Car- radine. Rivoli: \Sunset Bouleva.rd\ with Gloria Swanson. :(. i'fo i'fo Pnota by Stebbins West College First New Dorm Since 1814 THE COLLEGE unit, which was formed about a week ago, is made up of Professor Charles B. Hurd, chairman; Professor Anthony deH. Hoadley, Professor Charles T. Male, Sr., and William Mathias. The committee has been making a study of buildings on the Union campus in order to ascertain which ones would be used as shelters and which could be used in other aspects of the defense set up. A series of talks on campus defense is being planned for later in the year, in order to better acquaint the students with the problems in- volved in a possible atomic attack. • THE HOUS~ a ~e~y room Sigma Xi Picks Five Five students wet·e re- cently lected to associate membership in Sigma Xi, na- tional honorary science so- ciety, according to Pl'ofessor Clifford H. Pearce. One pro- fessor was elected to full membership in the society. MEN ELECTED tu associate membership are Edward S. Clark, Jr., Joseph R. Gabriels, Frank E. Lord, Nicholas T. Saviano, Jr., and Richard P. Thorn. Associate Pro- fessor of Psychology Clare W. Graves was elected to full member· ship. \white elephant\ located on Avon Road, and given as a gift to Union College by H. Laurence Achilles, former director of religious educa· tion here, was old for $10,000. The athletic field, which will be built with the proceeds (as re· quested by Mr. Achilles) is in· tended to take the place of Library Field for football practice and in- tramural sports. Although it is be- lieved that the pasture will be the site of the field it is also possible that it will be located adjacent to the proposed Field House, and will occupy tl'.e area which is now known as Dutchman's Village. When it will be built depends on war emergency restrictions, the draft, and money which amounts to the difference between the cost of the field and the $10,000 derived from the Achilles house sale. This difference may amount to as much as $20,000. Dr. Edwin G. Nourse, former chairman of the presidential coun- cil of economic advisors, urged greater emphasis on the teaching of the fundamentals of economics in secondary schools. He claimed that the emphasis to date has been on the political aspects of citizen- ship ... Now \unless the schools pre- pare a program to give us eco- . nomic understanding, someone will 1 ~~ do it for us.\ From our experi- By Wolcott Hubbell .. \WE DO NOT want to frighten the students,\ Professor Hurd ex- plained, \but rather to make them aware of the defense plan which if:~ now operating throughout the country. Schenectady, being a stra- tegic manufacturing and research center, has a particularly import- ant place in the system,\ he added. The committee has urged all Union men to read the pamphlet, \You and the Atom Bomb\ which is available in the library. Clark, a member of Delta Chi fraternity, is a BS in chemistry major. Gabriels, a pre-med, was recently elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. Lord, a member of Beta Eta Upsilon, Saviano and Thorn, a membl!r of Kappa Sigma, are all electrical engineers. THE SALE of the house brings to an end the long controversy be- tween the college and the Avon Road residents who fought to re- tain the zoning restrictions. ences, we would suggest Dr. I Nourse visit some of the local high school history classes where funda- mentals of economies have gener- ally always been included in the In November, 174 freshmen moved into the first new dormi- tory built at Union College since 1814 - West College. Previously, North and South Colleges were the newest dorms on campus, hav- ing been erected in 1814-15. provide space for the construation of a new school. IT IS INTERESTING to note that the students living in old West College had no plumbing facilities as well as no adequate heating plant. The boys had to draw their water from a spring where the city library is presently situated; for heat they used small, inefficient stoves provided by the school. In spite of such inconveniences, the 19th century Union man paid only four dollars a year for the room; whereas the freshman this year must dole out $200 a year for but half a room. ---o---- Committee Plans Annual Conference When acquired in 1948, the col- lege requested permission from the 'City to us~ the house for the Character Research project, but this was denied under lhe existing zoning restrictions, as was permis- sion to use it as a fraternity house. The property was assessed at $30,000 dollars and has cost the college tin addition to other head- aches> $4,000 in taxes. The struc- ture was sold to a General Elec- tric research scientist who \ . expect\s) to have a big family.\ I curriculum. I ALL OF THE undergraduates elected are members of the J·une, 1951 class with the exception of Thorn, who will graduate this January. I I' \ :f. :(. ~ Tuesday, Dec. 19 from 6 to 9 p.m. has been designated as the of- ficial \Stag Night\ in downtown ~chenectady stores. It wil be \men only\ during the second annual observance of the Merchant's Bu- reau of the Chamber of Commerce sponsored idea. We've discovered through devious means that a l:Jnion man by the name of William H. Herrman has been parading about the business area adorned in a stage head advertising the event. You're looking good, old boy! ~ ~ :r. THE FOUR-STORY building, which is conveniently situated in the pasture overlooking Seward Place, is in keeping with campus architecture. The walls and floors are solid concrete slabs held in place by a massive network of steel girders, and therefore almost soundproof. A a unique radiating system adequately heats the dorm; only the best plumbing fixtures were installed. The name \West College\ is not new at Union. In 1804 - at the earner of Union and College streets the first dormitory of that name, a three-story, Italian-style structure designed by Phillip Hooker, was completed after six years of build- ing. After 11 years, the edifice was sold to the city for use as a com- bination city hall, court house, and jail. Unitil 1854, after which the old college was no longer in aiLY way connected with Union, the building changed hands several times-serving both as a dormitory Unlike the abundant rules heaped on neophytes 150 years ago-no card playing, no swearing, no gaudy dress, no patronage of local taverns - the present freshmen, outside of class may lead an al- most entirely unrestricted life. Card games which would have shocked President Nott are num- erous, and beer drinking is no longer taboo. The new residents, however will be obliged to refrain from defacing :property, to attire themselves properly at meals, and to observe quiet in the evenings. NO LONGER will fresh have to leave their female guests standing outside while the boys go to their <Continued on Page 4) The committee for the> Annunl Confuence on Business and Indu~­ tt-y held at Unicm College each year, met recently and outlin<'d plans for the 1951 conference to be held Tuesday, Feb. 27. THE THEME FOR the confer- ence will be \What's Ahead for Business, Industry, and Your Community in this National Emer·· gency?\ The conference is spon· sored by Union, the United Statl's Chamber of Commerce, the Empire State Association o.f Commerce, and the Albany, Amsterdam, Glov- ersville, Saratoga, Schenectady, and Troy Chambers of Commerce. The society of Sigma Xi elects !0 associate mc·mbc•rship those senior;; who have taken at least half their work in science and enginePl'in~ and have a general index of at least 3.500. Special consideration is given to students who have shown promise of ability in re- search work. Election to full mem- bership in the society usually fol- lows the con~plction of an orit;inal investigation of importance in purr> or applied scienel'. Harold Heath, James LaForest and \William Sallicito, January graduates, were elected to th<' sC'- ciety last Spring. Debate Audience Votes To Allow Reds to Teach. The topic \Resolved: That this<$>·--------------- o---- Musical Day Set Sunday The twenty-sixth annual Union Colleg<' Christmas Music Festival wtll take place on Sunday in Mem- O! ial Chapel. During a stormy session at the city board of education meeting this week, Richard Carmichael, president of the Schenectady Fed· eration of Labor, hurled an accusa- tion that the General Electric com- pany controls the scho'OI board. Ac- cording to the president of the local Teachers Association, A. J. Duffy, \It's generally known that large businesses are trying to get members on boards of education and other groups spending tax money. (But) I can't prove it's done here . . .\ A minimum of $15,000 will be divided among school department employees d!lr- ing December, as a result of a board vote. and as a library. The building was then used by the city until 1890 when it was torn down in order ------------------------------------ House believes that Communists should be allowed to teach in American colleges and universities\ was passed by a vote of 44 to 10 at the parliamentary debate spon- sored by the Philomathean Society To Study Abroad During Sabbatical THE FESTIVAL is divided into thrc<:> pnl'ls, stnrting- with the mornir.g- won;hip at 11 n.m. The morning prcgJUm will be carried by st1tion WGY from 11:05 to 12:00. The program will include lh<> rPFiding of the \Christmas Story\ from the Bible bv Dr. War- rc>n C. Taylor, and solo~ by Fred· erick Conklin and Robc>rt Murt·ay. The chC!h\ will sing many of the traditional Christmas h\;mns in· cluding \0 C~me All Ye.Faithful\ and \The First Noel.\ ---•01---- Radio Station Gives Party This afternoon, radio station WRUC sponsored a Christmas party for the youngsters at the Schenectady Children's Home. The staff of the station supplied the entertainment for the children, calling upon their store of material used on regular broadcasts, as well as showing them a movie which lasted about half an hour. The local merchants donated the refreshments for the party. THE CHRISTMAS carols now being heard on campus are coming from a loudspeaker atop the li- brary from musia being piped over from the radio station's facilities. The chapel programs on Sunday, both the afternoon and evening recitals will be broadcast as a service of WRUC's policy of cov- ering important campus events. Monday evening has one and a half hours of Christmas listening scheduled over WRUC. At 7:30 p.m., \Centuries of Christmas\ a program of carols and stories, will be presented. At B:OO p.m. an hour- long production of Dicken's \A Christmas Carol\ written for radio, produced and directed by the staff of WRUC will round out the Christmas activities for the radio station. Lettuce Back Sam Newcomer's crusade against the inflated prices of sandwiches in West College pin- ing Room appears to have been successful. Lettuce again is pre- I Affairs Cotnmittee Gives Philos Cuts The Committee on Student Af- fairs and Relations held a meeting last Friday and came up with a 1 resolution that the Philomatheans ' will be permitted a maximum of eight cuts per semester for society Wednesday evening. Helmer L. Webb, college li- PROFESSOR Carl A. Niemeyer brarian, is ~chE'dUled to begin a six proposed the resolution and was months' >:abbatical Feb. 1. \'-1rs. seconded by Klaus Ep.pler. Profes- Frances Shnvet· Smith, catalogu<' sor Erwin W. von Schliehten op- Dt·. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will pre- sent his annual Christmas orgaiL recital at 4 p.m.. accompanied by the choir. Dr. Tidmarsh will play the well knov,n \March of the Wis<' Men\ by Theodore Dubois in which a note represPnting the stnt· which . sent iii sandwiches, but those of lettuce and to•mato have gone up. Mr. William South commented that he wishes the matter closed and would Issue no further statements. Newcomer, however, revealed that he was quite sat- isfied with the results of his work. Workout Room To Be Available trips, and that not more than three of these cuts shall be in any one class. THE COMMITTEE also recom- mended to the athletic department that overnight facilities be made available for athletic teams travel- ing a distance of 100 miles or more so they would not have to return immediately to campus. It has since been found out that Jack of funds in the department has stopped any serious thought on the In a 12 minute meeting, one of matter. the shortest on record, the student Consideration of a letter award council announced that permission for band members was tabled until had been received from Athletic · the Block \U\ society could be Director Harold Wittner for the notified of the request. student use of the handball room MEMBERS .present were Chair- in the Alumni Gymnasium for· man Dean c. William Huntley, wrestling and working. out. The President Carter Davidson, Profes- council is seelting more equipment sor William w. Bennett, Professor for the room. The room will be Augustus H. Fox, Mr. Theodore R. open any time after 2:80, when MciJwaine, Jack J. Fischel, Dun- the faculty usually works out. can s. Martin, A. Gerald Shapiro, THE COUNCIL found time to confirm the selection of the thrPe and Mr. Wilford H. Ketb. student procters who w!ll in part o--·- · comprise the new da·rmitory boa1·d. Libi'al'y Vacation Hours posed the motion and was sec- librarian and wife of Pwfessor E. onded by Ralph Friedbauer. S. C. Smith, wil assume supervision Dr. Niemeyer began with the of the libmry in ·webb's absence. premise that \communism Is a heresy\. Thus, not its merits should be considered but rather means of combating it. \There are two methods of combating a heresy,\ he said. \Supress it or tolerate it. It is difficult to find examples of toleration of heresies in history. The usual answer has been supression. But heresy so often thrives on supression.\ Toleration, a luxury not every society can bear, can effeatively oppose heresy. \Reason if free, wi!l combat heresy: Let us convert the enemy, not gag him.\ As with criminals, as with mischievous children-we must rehabilitate. 'WEBB PLANS to do research in the British Isles during his leave. His work stems from a mutual interest with Dr. Harold W. Blodgett, chairman of the de- partment of English and Thomas Lamont Professor of English Lit- erature. Webb will try to follow any clues he might come across to locate material on John Howard Payne in England. 1 Payne, class of 1810, and his poem \Home Sweet Home\ are honored by Payn<' Gate.) Webb will also seek English re- action to Americar. literature of the 19th and 20th centuries for a survey of Anglo-American rela- tions. This will also be for work to be done in cooperation with pr. Blodgett. MRS. SMITH had char~e of the college libn11·y during the war years, when W<'bb was absent on government duty in England. guided the wise m<'n i~ sustained throughout the cr tire pi<>ce. Choir solos will be sung by Conklin and William McDavilt. THE LAST I'ART o-f the pro- gram will be the traditional carol sing at 7:30 Jed by Dr. Tidmarsh. He will be> accompanied by Miss Helen Henf'haw at the organ and Miss Hazel Roberts at the piano. The popular carol sing is always attended by a capacity crowd and Dr. Tidmarsh advised of an early arrival. Frosh Elect \Villiam Morris was P!Pct<'d permanent Pr(':<ident of the freshman class in yesterday's elections. Morris po11<'d 47 votes, garnering 28.5'} of the votPs cast. Mr>ITis' dnsr-st com pet it or, Mn1tin Schulm~n. r<'ceh·Pd 31 votes for a pPrNntnge of 18.8. They are George C. Carter, Rowan The college library will remain J. Coyle, and Herbert E. Rie. open weekdays during the Christ- The council also listened to a re- mas recess from noon until 5 P.M. port of the Committee on Student It will be closed on Saturdays and PROFESSOR von Schlichten be- gan by defining a Communist. \Communist party activities, docu- ments, etc., all show,\ von Schlich- ten claimed, \that a member of the Communist party is not just a .member of a political party like the Democrats or the Republicans. Communism is an all inclusive ideology which governs aiJ phases of the lives of a party member.\ The methods and morality of Com- Webb's plans to spf'nd his sab· batical in the British Isles are of course subject to change, depend· ing upon the international situ- ation. An increas<' of \·oters ovi>J• thl' last <>lections wns noticf'd in· sofar as slightly O\'PI' 50~;. of . the membr>rs of the Class of ':i4 cast ballots. Affairs and Relations. Sundays. (Continued on Page 4)

2 C!httttnr I bimsi.a Member Assoclated Col- legiate Press and dlstl-1- butor ot the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tlstns Representative: Na.. tlonal Advertlsin~r Sewlce, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- llshe4 every Friday ot the schoql year. Edltorte.I Oftlce, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Oftlce, The Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Me.II Matter, subscription tOe a copy; $3 year . dellvereq any- where ln the Unit~ Sta.tea. SENIOR BOARD JA.Y N. COHN '62 , •.•• , ......................................... Edit()r D0'N M;. CREGIER '51 ................................. Associate Editor MAR,TIN SIEGEl,. '51 .................................. Associate Editor JOHN P. KENNEDY '62 ................................... News Editor JEROME GARTNER '52 ................................... Page Editor MARVIN L. KOHN '63 ..................................... Page Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR. '52 ................................ Page Editor DONALD E. SCHWAR'l1Z '52 ••• , ......................... Sports Editor ROBERT C. SMITH '52 .................................. Feature Editor ALAN K. l;tADACK '52 .............................. Business Manager ROBERT B. GRINDLEY '51 • , . , .•••••••••..•.•... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD JQHN J. CASSIDY '53 .......................... Assistant Sports Editor JOSEPH K. HANDLER '52 •.••..•••••.••• Assistant Business Manager LI;llO KUPERSCHMID '52 •....•....•... , ,Assistant Business Managers MON:ROE SILVERMAN '52 ••.•.••.••••..••••. Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE W. LEVINE '53 .........•............... Exchange Editor GEOOGE F. REDINGTON '52 ..••.•••.. Assistant Circulation Manager - FEATURE 8T.A.FF Thomas Donlon, Pet.er Fyfe, Alfred Kingon, Myron Komar, John Moses, Robert .Mur1·ay. -. PHOTO·G.RAPBY STAFF ..u.n FX!rman, .John Stebbins, :HarQld Weisberg, Frank Skutsch. ~PORTERS Irwin Bar.g, James Carmichael, Alfred Goldberger, William Graves, Herbert Hiller, Michael Kahn, Jerome Klein, Wiliam Mohrmann, :Martin Portnoy, David Smith, Daniel Wel·ner, Wolcott Hubbell; .Arthur ·stock- man. BUSINESS STAFF James DeSorbo, Charles Little, Gerald Robert&, Daniel Siesel, Robert ~Uverman, Hyman Florence. CIRCUL.&'l'ION STAFF Robert Strand, Hora.ce Va~ Vo~s.t, Thomas Da:venport, George Putma,n, CU:rtts Bates, David Steffatlbagen, Culver Hayes. .J. Towell Dav1s, Wllllam Winchester. College Beautification FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15. 1950 Students Voice Numerous Complaints Mr. Jay N. Cohn, lJ]ditor Dear Jay: Dear Sir: - After reading my \letter to the editor\ ~n l_ast week's Concordy, It Is a serious matter indeed when a college president ordai;ns him- • one of my friends asked me if I were thus 11eleasing \frustrated anger;\ self as something of a philosopher-king and takes upon himself the a few minutes later, another young m(l,n congratulated me for he.vlnl? awful responsibility of denying f11ee speech. Yet this is precisely what produced my best piece of writing to date, ActuallY.~ the .n~~e In .ques- ' President Davidson has done. In his .Annual Report to1:he college· Dr.· tion was intended to .be neither, but merely a routme C11IhC1sm of the Davidson has taken a firm and unmistakable stand ·on the question editorial management of the Concordiensis. of whether or not Communists should -be allowed to .present their THAT THE fundamental 11ules of responsible journalism were vio- . views on the Union campus, and he has augmented his statement With lated by publishi~g a confidential memorandum is of course ol:lvio.us; · the reasons for Ills actions. to quote the ·concordiensis Styl¢boqk, \Never use a stlJ,tement which; DR. I)A VIDSON begins his argument by saying that \When one . taken from its context, may be misleading ~:~nd place its' author in a accepts the freedoms of our American -democracy, one must accept false light.\ Si:p.ce the .statement which was puplished was admittedly them all. It is not possible for an American democrat to demand the . \vague and questionable\ out of its prqper context, I feel obligated to right of free speech in order that he may attack our other funda-, explain It to the l]eaders of the Concordiensls. (Eel\ Note-The letter mental vights . . . If one falls, they all perish; we must therefore was printed in its entirety and, by .our -definition, was not out of con- defend them all.\ Now with this as his beginning Dr. Davidson has text.) · shown a profound misunderstanding of the problem at han~. The. Everything said in the note was carefully considered an4 was based question is not-and most decidedly not-whe~her . CoJpmumsm 1:. on conditions which in my ·opinion are ·all too appar.ent. A newspaper 'right' or whether it is 'wrong'; but the p;oblem IS this: Who ~as .the which publishes a private communication not even properly sigi)ed, right to decide.? The President's answer. rmgs clear; he has, this ri?\ht. when its \policy\ is to reject unsigned ·letters, is undeniably inconsist- to decide a right which he assumes by vutue of the students credulity.· ent; and has· little respect for the feelings of the writer when it pUb- Obse;ving that we do not invite thieves to our homes, Dr. :David- lishes such a note without. his knowledge or permission. Similarly, a, son holds that likewise we can all-afford t() invite avowed Communists college is hardly consistent when it proclaims in its catalog that its : to our colleges \to dynamite the foundations of our freedoms.\ It is \centra aim is the production of reasoning, resourceful and responsible \naive\, he writes, for a student to feel that he ie strong-minded enough citizens,\ and then refuses to .give its students adequate opportunity to resist Communist propaganda, since a . Communist \w-ill use any to become acquainted with one of the deadliest enemies of their ac• kind of dishonesty to gain his point.\ The Union administra~ion, then, customed way ·of life; or respectful of the feelings of the individual proposes to maintain a fortress of truth, a defense from nawete, -and :when it restricts the library privileges <Jf the student body as a penalty a sl;lield of protection simply by locking the college gate~ at times ·for the destructive actions of .an unrepresentative. few. One's respect which seem propitious. The student is unable t() discern fallacies, lies, ·for an in~>titution is severely tarnished by such attitudes unless he is and tl'ickeries by himself, becal,lse only the administration is· in a an unreasoning sycophant. position to see what is just and right. FOR THE SAKE of pathetic jux:taposition I should like to stray I HAVE THE highest regard for Dr, Davidson's ability and prestige for a moment and draw from the college Bulletin. \Today under the as an educator, l;>Ut I must respectfully and adamantly disagree with leadership of Carter Davidson .students will find Union College rich in his stano;I on refusing to invite Communists to speak at Un:ion. Com- old traditions, but young in spirit, vigorous in its approa!ID to t.he munism is at present a global menace which confronts every human problems of today and tomorrow, and ready and able to serve Its being with it.l;. vile and vicious ideology; everything possible must be students by preparing them for satisfaction and usefulness in the done to combat -it and lessen Its influence, and to shut oneself in an m-odern world.\ And better yet: \Union College was the ch.ild of a ivory tower and refuse to join l;Jattle merely postpones the inevitable new national democracy, and its organizational . structure ts tod~y · encounter. I say invite the Commies to speak, give them a chance· built upon the conviction that on)y by living togethe_r. in a democratic . to spout off their noxious nonsense, and then let a mature a,nd informed college envil'onment can students learn to become Citizens of a demo- student audience heckle them unmercifully! cratic America.\ . Union College has a long and- distinguished body of traditions :t;ew Now if Dr. Davidson's hapless attempt to justify the revocation of other colleges can boast .of, ·but the real values of these traditions. are The college has launched what may turn out to be an- other long term project for improvemen~the construction of anathletic field somewhere in the college pasture. The details of the plan are still hazy, since no definite goals can be set in a time of such uncertainty. But the ultimate aim is a fine one. Perhaps the most important chang~ in the college at this time, from an aesthetic point of view, woul<;l be the return of the pasture to .a place of beauty, devoid of the cars which now turn the campus into a parking lot. free speech on the Union campus is part of Union's \vigorous- approach smothered under a set of empty and sometimes foolish artifacts of t() the problems of today,\ then I, f()r one, am all for less vigor and. which the year course system and compulsory chapel are two examples for a little more common sense. And If Union, \the chlld of a new· often criticized and' recently editorialized. Moreover, the lofty pro- national democracy\ is helping to build a \democratic college en- visions enumerated in the college catalog and elsewhere about creat- vironment\ by the extension of paternalistic dogm~ then there is a : lng mature graduates are inadequately i~plemented and even some- striking lack of resemblance between Union, the child of democracy, times retarded, probably inadvertently, as in the Communist issue. and its faltering father. No college or other institution which suppresses one side of an issue, The construction of such an athletic practice field would only be part of the face changing which the pasture is due to undergo as soon as conditions permit. The pasture dorms are even now being prepared for removal and the elimination of Dutchmen's Village may not be far behind. Union College, so long ID.active in the feld of building up its campus, has suddenly initiated a bold new program of construction which should ultimately include a new li- brary, a field house and a fmternity quadrangle at the north- east corner of the campus. • We can only hope now that the war does not interfere with the preposed improvements and, in the near fture, Union students may be able to stand upon the Terrace Wall and see in all directions a full and dignified campus blending the old and the new. HST and Christmas The campus took o~ the atmosphere of the Christmas season this week, as holiday music emanated from the li- brary and buildings were bedecked with green and red trim- mings. But the old \Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men\ routine was as hollow as the noise of guns being fired in Korea. Harry Truman showed his usual lack of \Good Will,\ at least to anyone who dared to criticize. He added to his reputation as the president who most often has his feet in h_is mout? by threatening an honest music critic with phy- srcal pumshment (both above and below the waist), because he I'eported the truth about Margaret's singing. · In the past year, Mr. Truman has said many things he shoul~ have regretted. He called a commentator an S. 0. B. an? bkened the Marine Corps to Stalin's propaganda ma- chme. Then he smiled broadly and credited himself with the wonderful condition of the world. That was of course. f3.K. ~Before Korea), when Mr. Truman's egoti~m was -af Its height. . We are ref!l!nded of some~~il}g Dr. Eddy Asirvatham said about humility and self-cnticism. Perhaps his lecture '\¥OUld have been more effective in the White House. . For Your Information FRIDAY, DEC. 15. Concert, Jobn~..,-=~-----------­ Lloyd and two of his students, There wlll be a basketball game MC, 8 p.m., free, tickets from ·in the Gym at 8:30 p.m. on 'Wed- Miss Travis; Pre-Med Society, nesday, December 20 - Union vs. Bio 205, 8 p.m. University of Vermont. · SATURDAY, DEC. 16. Varsity Bas- A HAPPY HOLIDAY from your ketball, Union vs. Hamilton, Gym, last class on Tuesday, December 19 8:30p.m.; varsity swimming, gym, (laboratories as usual) until 8 a.m. 2:30 p,m.; APO Party for Under- ·Wednesday, January 3, when all privileged Children, Silliman Hall, classes are resumed. 12 to 5 p.m. EVENING CLASS VACATION SUNDAY, DEC. 17. ANNUAL begins at 10 p.m. on Tuesday, De- CHRISTMAS MUSIC FESTIVAL. cember 19. Classes resumed 7 p.m. 11 a.m. musical service; 4 p.m. January 3. IT IS OBVIOUS that in certain fields we are required to give up disagreeable as it may be, is \educating\ in the true sense. certain rights-either implicit or explicit-in order to meet our com- THE COLLEGE administrati_on is not the sole contributor to st~­ mon ends. In maintaining a large-scale ,bureaucracy, for example, it dent immaturity. An alert and responsive student body require::; an is a functional necessity that we give up certain of our rights to . organized means of expressing itself, a. function whicJ;!. the college direct popular control of governmental power. The same is true in a newspaper should perform to a large degree. It does not at Union. military hierarchy where many rights must be ignored for the common The ConcorqJensls is ma1:1i:t;estly ingrown; occasio:p.aily in,fantile, and good. 1' 1 1 usually stale. The current student interest in the 'paper may quite But this much is obvious, that the burden of proof Ies c ear Y accurately be measured by the humber of recent letters to the editors-~, with him who. would deny our fundamental rights. He must show- · i.e., practically none. The students of Union College need a good paper and show beyond all measure of reasonable doubt-that there is an with a responsible staff, and every effort should be !):lade to see that absolute necessity for the denial of freedom. they get one. DR. DAVIDSON has not done this, He says, in effect, that Com- I have no desire to disparage Union College or the Concordiensis, munists should be denied free speech at Union College because they are but several important changes are needed and now. If no other -means apt to lie; but this is not enough. N~r does it suffice to sh~w that will serve, I favor hacking away· and letting the dead wood fall where Communists are opposed to the very rights they seek to exploit. And k it may! in any case, the decision is not his to ma e. . . If we in the United States cannot answer Commumsm on rational grounds-no matter how irrational the Communist happens to be-- then we are licked already. And our intellectual defeat does not seem too far off; · Yours tpuly, DAVIS W. GRIFFITH Dear Editor: One -of the chief purposes of WRUC is to provide entertainment for the students o;l' Union College, but South College has been unable to hear the station with adequate volume since September 15. The totally incapable, or perhaps just plain lazy, technical depart- ment of WRUC has been well aware of this fact and has done· abso- lutely nothing about it. About a month-and-a-half ago, a signed peti- ti-on was submitted to WRUC concerning this situation. The station apologized and said that it would investigate the matter. No action has 'bee1;1 taken by the station. There is absolutely no reason why the trouble could not have been eliminated over two months ago. A South College Resident Dear Editor: I am highly in favor of Christmas. I think that it Is a fine institu- tion and am sorry that it comes but once a year.' But do you think that' it would be possible for Mr. H. Webb to play his radio a little bit lower? Respectfully, IDWIN FRIEDMAN ROBERT SOHWARTZ Philippine HELP Student Adjusts to Union Life By Art Stockman Horatio Fuentes, \Benjie\ to his friends, is a HELP stu- dent from the Philippines. When I went over to the Delta Upsilon house to interview him, I found that he was busily engaged ill a game of \Hearts\ -yes, Benjie is adjusting quite well to Union College life. HE ARRIVED in the United<@>·----------~~-- IN COMMENTING on the Far States late last July and spent Eastern situation, and the Com- most of the summer taking an munists in particular, he mentioned orientation course at Yale Univer- a Communist-led group in the DON M. CREGTim Dear Editor: Rosalind and Charlotte Brown wish to thank the members of the faculty, t);l.e students of Union College, the members of his own frater- nity and the other fraternities on Gampus for their messages of sym- pathy, gifts and contributions to charity in Stephen's name. The knowledge that you are sharing our grief is a source of comfort to ill~~ . . Yours very t:J;uly, BERNICE H. PI'l'TLUOK, Baldwin, N. Y. Open letter to all free .American citizens and faculty councils: I would like to call your attention to a new social theory ex- pounded by Dr. Carter ~vidson. His text reads, \ ... our colleges ... deserve the support -of all free American citizens an dcorporations, because ... \ Does this classification of society mean Dr. Davidson is introducing notions of Marxian class conflict, or does it merely de- note the extent of his thinking about America? ... It's nice to be on the· red-pure band wagon, but I'm concerned about the motives for purchasing the ticket, and afraid students and faculty will have to pay the price with academic freedom. LANGE &RAPP Pharmacy Prescriptions A Large Variety of Christmas Gifts \The College Students Drug Store\ Chemicals __,.. Drugs Cor, NOTT TERRACE ancl STATE STREET SAM NEWCOMER ~lusivo a~()\\~' (]\\\\\)l~~~~~lllll~ Union Sea-l Sterling rimmed 'Coast-trays' may be used as a Coaster or Ash Tray \ tltoe sea.l will not be afieeted . by the ·heat of a. eigarette or a douse of Old Granddad A Perfect Christmas Gift $4.50 Inc. T CJlC sity, learning contemporary Ameri\ Philippines that is increasing in L y· 0 N' I s· s size. These people, called Huks, erving· Union's Men can history. Benjie got his first were Guerrilas who fought against look at New York City during a the Japanese during the last war. a. For Yean three-day trip at the completion They have expressed extreme <lis- ~ of his course; his opinion-\Just satisfaction with the present gov- ~:~·~~~ See your agent on Campus- too big!\ He enjoyed observing ernment, advocating a system of '-!' f'' \'' the faces he met, including, ()f agrarian refornis. The fears of (~· ~----~~ ......... ·.\'~· ·uNITED course, those on the New Yor-k sub ... Communism. that looms so large in ' .;. r~ ways. the United States today, is, on the CLEA. -HERS Benjie spent three years at the whole, not so big: an issue in the · recital by Dr. E. A. Tldmarsh ----a---- and choir; 7:30 p.m. the annual MAKE-UP TESTS community carol sing. Public in- Registration for make-up tests to vited. be given on Monday and Tuesday, University of Philippines as a Philippines, according. to Benjie. for everything TAILORS Foreign Trade student and is a. ·Benjie's opinions on American member of Upsilon Sigma P.i fra- women are few. He made some photographic Phone 4-5676 ternity at home. He thinks quite vague reference to \those Skidmore MONDAY, DEC. 18. Daily assem- January 8 and 9, must be com- bly, student.,body meeting, MC, pleted at the Office of the Registrar noon; Mountebanks movie, \The before five o'clock, Tuesday, De- House on 92nd Street'', OC 4:30, 7 cember 19. Students must obtain and 9:15 p.m. 25 cents; Union at the Registrar's Office a slip to College Office staff dinner, Van be signed by the instructor giving Dyck's Hotel, 5:30 p.m.; Dance the course and return the slip to band, Gym, 7 p.m. the Office of the Registrar for the TUlllSDAY, DEC. 819. Daily assem- Dean's signature. bly, speaker, Prof, Harold W. · STUDENTS are required to pay Blodgett, \George Bernard Shaw\ a registration fee of one dollar un- last In series, MC, noon; General less they present an ercuse for ill- Electric Chorus, MC, 8 p.m., ness from Dr, Arony or we1•e absent tiCkets a.t door. due to an authorized activity, · highly of our fraternity system, as women/' but, on the whole, seems 1236 State Street H4 State St. near Ferr.y opposed to his own. \The frater- . to th.ink very highly of the Am- f~~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~2;~~~~~;~~~~~~ nities at home,\ he says, \are too erican female. He did point out ••• • .-- ......... • \\'· \\\\\- •• • ..-.. • · ...... big, often having over a hundred the apparent lack of inhibitions men. There are no houses, and here. He is of the opinion that the members are n.ot as Intimately women should be on a par with associated. Rushes are studied for men, however, and is incUned to. a year, and men are not pledged believe that a revolution of that until their sophomore or junior sort is also occuring in the Philip- years.\ The University functions pines. in much the same manner as does UNIVERSITY OF Philippines Union, according to Benjie. His sports, he believes, are very much main pont of comparison seemed the ea:rne as ours. Soccer, played to be the cut system. He seems to there as football, is quite popular, think that ours is rather 1enient in as is basltetball, complete wil;h the . comparison. same college spirt. -~J!) .<( • ·,L. -~ ISh = § ~ .; = . 55. J•n lfiiiiiiiUIIIII Two up the way ou :~;rom home ·seven games rem it is an a:v I).ecessity t' a -reverse i: for these if a sue !;!eason is realized b year~s tean The W1 team thai us 53-51 Ia! nesday ni least ten team. ~o' \How comt tlon; and woUld likE any more,J team• Of may be ex court, but causes bad ling, and 1 The last blamed on can .they : feree. ThE ity that th1 lies In the tires the t• away the good perf 1 suppose cal effect I ing on the Another important for:ma.nces tlciatlng. were ve11 :(ouls in th We were I and it defi way off. Dams did; e'ven if th1 blocks as having thl wolllil hav The gan: easily be 1 the refers- six field g by variou Also in t play whil points of seemed to as at le~ were com1 ers in an shooting. I hope as alibis : that we s overcome won the 1 In shari reasons w the road have to ie advantagE order to I Frosl Coach I for fresh swered b~ day. Har ducting d writing lJ down to· Due to space in be a swiJ squad ai} the begil son, The fr1 season o kill. Las was the I since 193 She1 Co old na.med All OpJ Willla.ll1 earlier JimKe to the onents Shen slve ba toon m cluded Union very fl liP sp! outsta11 fought Ephme Alexan Weeke1

2 Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na.. tlonal Ad vertlsln!l:' Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. E<ll torlal Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription Hle a. copy ; $3 year del!vered any- where In the United States. SENIO·R BOARD JAY N. COHN '52 ...•. , , ......... , . , ... , , , ... , .... , . , , . , . , .. , ... Editor DON M. CREGIER '51 ................................. Associate Editor MARTIN SIEGEL '51 ........................... , . , , .. , Associate Editor JOHN P. KENNEDY '52 ................... , ............... News Editor JEROME GARTNER '52 ............................. , •. , .Page Editor MARVIN h KOHN '53 .................................... Page Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR '62 ................................ Page Editor DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 ............................. Spor~s Editor ROBERT C. SMITH '52 ................................. Feature Editor ALAN K. RADACK '52 .....•.••....... , , •..•..•..... Business Manager ROBERT B. GRINDLEY '51 ................... , .. Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD JOHN J. CASSIDY '53 ....................•..... Assistant Sports Editor JOSEPH K. HANDLER '52 ......... , , .... ARsistant Business Manager LEO KUPERSCHMID '52 .....•.....•...• Assistant Business Managers MONROE SILVERMAN '52 . , . , •....•.. , ....•. Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE W. LEVINE '53 ......................... EXt•hange Editor GEORG-E F. REDI:s'GTON '52 .. , .... , .. Al!si:stant Circulation Manager FEA 'l'URE STAFF Thomaa Donlon, Peter Fyfe, Alfred K!ngon, Myron Komar, John Moses, Robert Murray. PHO'IlOGRAPHY STAFF Al&n Forman, John Stebbins, Harold Weisberg, Frank Skutsch. REPORTERS Irwin Barg, James Carmirhael, Alfred Goldberger, William Graves, Herbert Hil'ler, :\lil'hael Kahn, Jerome Klein, \Viliam :\!ohrnmnn, i\lartin Portnoy, David Smith, Daniel \Veiner, \\'olcott Hubllell, Arthur ~tod'­ man. BUSINESS STAFF James DeSorbo, Charles Little, Gerald Hoberts, Daniel Siesel, Robert Silverman, Hyman Florence. CIRCULATION STAFF Robert Strand, Horace Van Yoast, Thomaa Davenport, George Putman, CUrtis Bates, David Steffanhagen, Culver Hayes, J. Towell Davis, Wlllla.m Winchester. College Beautification The college has launched what may turn out to be an- other long term project for improvement-the construction of anathletic field somewhere in the college pasture. The details of the plan are still hazy, since no definite goals can be set in a time of such uncertainty. But the ultimate aim is a fine one. Perhaps the most important change in the college at this time, from an aesthetic point of view, would be the return of the pasture to a place of beauty, devoid of the cars which now turn the campus into a parking lot. The construction of such an athletic practice field would only be part of the face changing which the pasture is due to undergo as soon as conditions permit. The pasture dorms are even now being prepared for removal and the elimination of Dutchmen's Village may not be far behind. Union College, so long i11active in the feld of building up its campus, has suddenly initiated a bold new program of construction which should ultimately include a new Ii- bi·ary, a field house and a fraternity quadrangle at the north- east corner of the campus. · We can only hope now that the war does not interfere with the proposed improvements and, in the near fture, Union students may be able to stand upon the Terrace Wall and see in all directions a full and dignified campus blending the old and the new. HST and Christmas The campus took on the atmosphere of the Christmas season this week, as holiday music emanated from the li- brary and buildings were bedecked with green and red trim- mings. But the old \Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men\ routine was as hollow as the noise of guns being fired in Korea. Harry Truman showed his usual lack of \Good Will,\ at least to anyone who dared to criticize. He added to his reputation as the president who most often has his feet in h.is mout? by threatening an honest music critic with phy- siCal pumshment (both above and below the waist), because he reported the truth about Margaret's singing. In the past year, 1\lr. Truman has said many things he shoul~ have regretted. He called a commentator an S. 0. B. an? likened the Ma~ine Corps to Stalin's propaganda ma- chme. Then he smiled broadly and credited himself with the wonderful condition of the world. That was of course !J.K. fBefore Korea), when l\Ir. Tl'Uman's egodsm was at 1ts height. . We are reminded of something Dr. Eddy Asirvatham said about humility and self-criticism. Perhaps his lecture \VOUld have been more effective_in the White House. For Your Information FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950 ,Students Voice Numerous Comp,laints Mr. Jay N Cohn, Editor Dear Jay· Dear Sir: After read1ng my \Jetter to the editor\ in last week's Concol'dy, It is a serious matter indeed when a college president ordains him- one of my friends asked me if I were thus releasing \frustrated anger;\ self as something of a philosopher-ldng and takes upon himself the 'a few minutes later, another young man congratulated me £or having awful responsibility of denying free speech. Yet this is precisely what produced my best piece of writing to date. Actual!~, the .n.o~e in ques- President Davidson has done. In his Annua;J Report to the college Dr. · tion was intended to be neither, but merely a routine critiCISm of the Davidson has taken a firm and unmistakable stand on the question editorial management of the Concordiensis. of whether or not Communists should be a.llowed to present their THAT THE fundamental rules of responsible journalism were vic- views on the Union campus, and he has augmented his statement with· lated by publishing a confidential memorandum is of course obvio.us; he reasons for his actions. to quote the Concordiensis Stylebook, \Never use a statement which, DR. DAVIDS@N begins his argument by saying that \When one· taken from its context may be misleading and place its author in a accepts the freedoms of our American democracy, one must accept false light.\ Since the' statement which was published was a<;~mittedly them all. It is not possible for an American democrat to demand the \vague and questionable\ out of its proper context, I feel obllgated to right of free speech in order that he may attack our other funda- explain it to the readers of the Concord:iensis. (Ed. Note-The letter mental rights ... If one fai,ls, they all perish; ;\e must therefore was p~inted in its enHrety and, by our definition, was not Gut of con- defend them all.\ Now with this as his beginning Dr. Davidson has text.> shown a profound misunderstanding of the problem at han~. Tl~e . Everything said in the note was carefully considered and was based question is not-and most decid'edly not-whe~her . Commumsm Jo .. on conditions which in my opinion are all too apparent. A newspaper right' or whether it is 'wrong'; but the problem IS this: Who -?-as .the which publishes a private communication not even properly signed, right to dPcide? The President's answer. rings clear; he has • this l'l?ht when its \policy\ is to reject unsigned letters, is undeniably inconsist- to decide, a right which he assumes by VIrtue of the students creduhty. ent; and has little respect for the feelings of the writer when it pub- Observing that we do not invite thieves to our homes, Dr. Da':\id- lishes such a note without his knowledge or permission. Similarly, a son holds that likewise we can all-afford to invite avowed Commumsts college is hardly consistent when it proclaims in its catalog that its to our colleges \to dynamite the foundations of our freedoms.\ It is · \cimtral aim is the pvoduction of reasoning, resourceful and res.ponsible \naive\, he writes, for a student to feel that he is strong-minded enough citizens,\ and then refuses to give its students adequate opportunity to resist Communist propaganda, since a Communist \will use any to become acquainted with one of the deadliest enemies of their ac- kind of dishonesty to gain his point.\ The Union administra~ion, then, customed way of life; or respectful of the feelings of. the individual proposes to maintain a fortress of truth, a defense from naivete. and when it restricts the library privHeges of the student body as a penalty a shield of protection simply by locking the col'lege gate$ at times for the destructive actions of an unrepresentative few. One's respect which seem propitious. The student is unable to discern fallacies, lies, for an institution is severely tarnished by such attitudes unless he is and trickeries by himself, because only the administration is in a an unreasoning sycophant. position to see what is just and right. FOR THE SAKE of pathetic juxtaposition I should like to stray I HAVE THE highest regard for Dr. Davidson's ability and prestige fur a moment and draw from the college Bulletin. \Today under the as an educator, but I must respectfully and adamantly disagree with leR.dHship of Cart~r Davidson students will find Union College rich in his stand on refusing to invite Communists to speak at Union. Com- old traditions, but young in spirit, vigorous in its approach to t.he munism is at present a global menace which confronts every human problems of today and tomorrow. and ready and able to serve 1ts being with i~ vile and vicious ideology; everything possible must be students by preparing them for satisfaction and usefulness in the done to combat it and Jessen its influence, and to shut oneself in an modern world.\ And better yet: \Union College was the child of a ivory tower and refuse to join battle merely postpones the inevitable new national democracy, and its organizational structure is today encounter. I say invite the Commies to speak, give them a chance built upon the conviction that only by living togethe.r. in a democratic to spout off their noxious nonsense, and then let a mature and informed college environment can students learn to become citizens of a demo- student audience heckle them unmercifully! cratic America.\ Un·ion College has a long and distinguished body of traditions few Now if Dr. Davidson's hapless attempt to justify the revocation of other colleges can boast of, but the real values of these traditions are free speech on the Union campus is part of Union's \vigorous approach smothered under a set of. empty and sometimes foolish artifacts of to the problems of today,\ then I, for one, am all for less vigor and which the year course system and compulsory chapel are two examples for a little more c·ommon sense. And if Union, \the child of a new often criticized and recently editorialized. Moreover, the lofty pro- national democracy\ is helping to build a \democratic college. en- visions enumerated in the coHege catalog and elsewhere about creat- vironment\ by th<> extension of paternalistic dogma, then there IS a ing mature graduates are inadequately implemented and even some- striking lack of resemblance between Union, the child of democracy, times retarded, probably inadvertently, as in the Communist issue. and its faltering father. No college or other institution which suppresses one side of an issue, IT IS OBVIOUS that in certain fields we are required to give up disagreeable as it may be, is \educating\ in the true sense. certain rights-either implicit or explicit-in order to meet our com- THE COLLEGE administration is not the sole contributor to stu- man ends. In maintaining a large-scale bureaucracy, for example, it dent immaturity. An alert and responsive student body requires an is a functional necessity that we give up certain of our rights to organized means of expressing itself, a function which the college direct popular control of governmental power. The same is true in a newspaper should perform to a large degree. It does not at Union. military hierarchy where many rights must be ignored for the common The Concordiensis is maPi.festly ingrown, occasionally infantile, and good. . 1 usually stale. The current student interest in the 'paper may quite But this much is obvious, that the burden of proof hes clear Y accurately be measured by the number of recent letters to the editors, with him who would deny our fundamental rights. He must show- i.e., practically none. The students of Union College need a good paper and show beyond all measure of reasonable doubt-that there is an with a responsible staff, and every effort should be made to see that absolute necessity for the denial of freedom. th t DR. DAVIDSON has not done this. He says, in effect, th~ Com- eyig~av~n~o desire to disparage Union College or the Concordiensis, munists should be denied free speech at Union College because t ey are but several important changes are needed and now. If no other means apt to lie; but this is not enough. Nor does it suffice to sh~w that will serve, I favor hacking away and letting the dead wood fall where Communists are opposed to the very rights they seek to exploit. And in any case, the decision is not his \Q make. . . If we in the United States cannot answer Commumsm on rational grounds-no matter how irrational the Communist happens to be- then we are licked already. And our intellectual defeat does not seem too far off. · Yours truly, DAVIS W. GRIFFITH Dear Editor: One of the chief purposes of WRUC is to provide entertainment for the students of Union College, but South College has been unable to hear the station with adequate volume since September 15. The totally incapable, or perhaps just plain lazy, technical depart- ment of WRUC has been well aware of this fact and has done abso- lutely nothing about it. About a month-and-a-half ago, a signed peti- tion was submitted to WRUC concerning this situation. The station apologized and said that it would investigate the matter. No action has been taken by the station. There is absolutely no reason why the trouble could not have been eliminated over two months ago. A South College Resident Dear Editor: I am highly In favor of Christmas. I think that it is a fine institu- tion. and am sorry that it comes but once a year. But do you think that it would be possible for Mr. H. Webb to play his radio a little bit lower? Respectfully, IRWIN FRIEDMAN ROBERT SCHWARTZ Philippine HELP Student Adjusts to Union Life By Art Stoclanan Horatio Fuentes, \Benjie\ to his friends, is a HELP stu- dent from the Philippines. When I went over to the Delta Upsilon house to interview him,,r found tha.~ h~ was. bu~ily engaged in a game of \Hearts -yes, BenJie IS adJustmg quite well to Union College life. HE ARRIVED in the United~-------------- it may! DON M. CREGIER Dear Editor: Rosalind and Charlotte Brown wish to thank the members of the faculty, the students of Union College, the members of his own frater- nity and the other fraternities on campus for their messages of sym- pathy, gifts and contributions to charity in Stephen's name. The knowledge that you are sharing our grief is a source of comfort to all of us. Yours very truly, BERNICE H. PITTLUCK, Baldwin, N. Y. Open letter to all free American citizens and faculty councils: I would like to call your attention to a new social theory ex- pounded by Dr. Carter Davidson. His text reads, \. . . our colleges . . . deserve the support of all free American citizens an dcorporations, because • \ Does this classification of society mean Dr. Davidson is introducing notions of Marxian class conflict, or does it merely de- note the extent of his thinking about America? ... It's nice to be on the red-pure band wagon, but I'm concerned about the motives for purchasing the ticket, and afraid students and faculty will have to pay the price with academic freedom. LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy Prescriptions A Large Variety of Christmas Gifts \The College Students Drug Store\ Chemicals - Drugs Cor, NOTT TERRACE •nd STATE STREET SAM NEWCOMER I Exclusive at I ~~~~~~,~~ Union Seal Sterling rimmed 'Coast-trays' may be used as a Coaster or Ash Tray \ the seal will not be affected by the heat of a cigarette or a douse of Old Granddad States late last July and spent most of the summer taking an FRIDAY, DEC. 15. Concert, John orientation course at Yale Univer- Lloyd and two of his students, There will be a basketball game IN COMMENTING en the Far Eastern situation, and the Com- munists in particular, he mentioned a Communist-led group in the Philippines that is increasing in size. These people, called Huks, were Guerrilas who fought against the Japanese during the last war. They have expressed extreme dis- satisfaction with the present gov- ernment, advocating a system of agrarian reforms. The fears of Communism that looms so large in the United States today, is, on the whole, not so big. an issue in the Philippines, according to Benjie. A Perfect Christmas Gift $4.50 Inc. Tax MC, 8 p.m., free, tickets from in the Gym at 8:30 p.m. on Wed- sity, learning contemporary Ameri- Miss Travis; Pre-Med Society, nesday, December 20 - Union vs. can history. Benjie got his first Bio 205, 8 p.m. University of Vermont. look at New York City during a SATURDAY, DEO. 16. Varsity Bas- A HAPPY HOLIDAY f.rom your three-day trip at the completion ketball, Union vs. Hamilton, Gym, last class on Tuesday, December 19 of his course; his opinion-\Just 8:30p.m.; varsity swimming, gym, (laboratories as usual) until 8 a.m. too big:\ He enjo·yed observing 2:30 p.m.; APO Party for Under- Wednesday, January 3, when all the faces he met, including, of privileged Children, Silliman Hall, classes are resumed. course, those on the New York sub- 12 to 5 p.m. EVENING CLASS VACATION ways. SUNDAY, DEC. 17. ANNUAL begins at 10 p.m. on Tuesday, De- Benjie spent three years at the CHRISTMAS MUSIC FESTIVAL, cember 19. Classes resumed 7 p.m. University of Philippines as a 11 a.m. musical service; 4 p.m. January 3. Foreign Trade student and is a recital by Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh o member of Upsilon Sigma Pi fra- and choir; 7:30 p.m. the annual MAKE-UP TESTS ternity at home. He thinks quite community carol sing. Public in- Registration for make-up tests to highly of ou1· fraternity system, as vited. be given on Monday and Tuesday, opposed to his own. \The frater- MONDAY, DEC. 18. Daily assem- January 8 and 9, must be com- nities at home,\ he says, \are too bly, student _body meeting, MC, pleted at the Office of the Registrar big, often having over a hundred noon; Mountebanks movie, \The 'before five o'clock, Tuesday, De- men. There are no houses, and House on 92nd Street'', OC 4:30, 7 cember 19. Students must obtain the members are not as Intimately and 9:15 p.m. 25 cents; Union at the Registrar's Office a slip to associated. Rushes are studied for College Office staff dinner, Van be signed by the instructor giving a year, and men are not pledged Dyck's Hotel, 5:30 p.m.; Dance the course and return the slip to until their sophomore or junior band, Gym, 7 p.m. the Office of the Registrar for the years.\ The University functions TUESDAY, DEC. 819. Daily assem- Dean's signature. in much the same manner as does bly, speaker, Prof. Harold W. STUDENTS are required to pay Union, according to Benjie. His Blodgett, \George Bernard S!law\ a registration fee of one dollar un- main pont of comparison seemed last in series, MC, noon; General less they present an ercuse for ill- to be the cut system. He seems to Electric Chorus, MC, 8 p.m., ness from Dr. Arony or were absent think that ours is rather lenient in tickets at doo:r. due to an authorized activity, comparison. Benjie's opinions on American women are few. He made some vague reference to \those Skidmo-re women,\ but, on the whole, seems to think very highly of the Am- erican female. He did point out the apparent lack of inhibitions here. He is of the opinion that women should be on a par with men, however, and is inclined to believe that a revolution of that sort is also occuring in the Philip- pines. UNIVERSITY OF Philippines sports, he believes, are very much the same as ours. Soccer, played there as football, is quite popular, as is basketball, complete with the same college spirt. for everything photographic 1236 State Street ... 900 ... \ ..... ...,..... ... - Serving Union•s Men For Yea·rs See your at;rent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAI'LORS Phone 4-5676 114 State St. near Ferry ,., , ............... SAVE 10% .• -ON FOOD COSTS •. - •• SAVE IOOfo NOTT RESTAURANT. AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N; Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.50 for $5.00 FRIDAY, ~ = ~~~ = Ji - 5111111111111 Two UJ: the way o from hom seven games ret it is an a necessity a reverse for these if a su season is realized year's tea The ~ team tlu us 53-51 ll nesday r least ten team. N( \How con tion, and would lil any more team. Of may bee court, bu causes ba· ling, and The Ia! blamed 01 can they feree. Tl ity that tl lies in thE tires the away the good pe1 I suppose cal effect ing on th Anothe1 importan; formance ficiatlng. were ver fouls in t We were and it de way off. Iiams dlc e'ven if tl blocks a1 having tl would ha The ga1 easily be the refer six field by vario Also in play wh points o seemed t as at IE were con ers in az: shooting . I hope as alibis that we overcome won the In sho: reasons, the roac have to I advanta€ order to Fros: Coach for fres swered t day. HE ducting writing down to Due tc space h be a sw squad s the beg son. The f: season kill. La was the since 19 She Cool name~ All Oil Willia1 earlier Jim K to the onent! She! sive b toon r clude!l Union very up Sl outsta rough· Ephm Alexa.: Week·

1950 anger;\ ha.ving .ques~ of the vio- which, in a to letter of con- .based signed, it ptib- a its ponsible ac• penalty respect he is prestige ee with . Com- human be f in an chance· :eew .are of pro- creat- some- issue. issue, to stu- ire!'! an college Union. le, and quite editors.~. paper ee that diensis, -means where of the frater- sym- The fort to , ex- alleges de- be on for to or ift 3 ;:==short,, ,Union Host to Williams, Hamilton ? ~Shots ~ .HmCann;chaOI Mermen UTTn .. ,, Do· ·r¢Volleyballers¢D· u.t·cbm. en .Cag· er· ·S ~IIIIIIUIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIllllllll'. {) J:l' .L' ~ .Loaded Ephmen ~~~.,~~~~.~:~Seek Second Win son rolled into the second week of activity, Kappa Alpha in the By Bill Mohrmann Two up and two down. That':s the way our basketball record away from home :>tands right now. With away games remaining, it is an apparen.t By IJ,win Barg . The Garnet swimming team will compete against Wil- liams College, its toughest opponent of the 1950-51 season temorrow afternoon in Foote Pool at 2:30 as Ray Mullane'~ men seek their second victory of the campaign in what should !Je a tough ba~tle. The Dutchmen will also be seek- ing their first victol;'y over the visitors. ·northern league was the only quin- Returning to the friendly confines of their home court, tet to hold a clear cut lead in any the Union College basketball team will also hope to return of the 3 divisions. neces~ity to have THE CAPS maintained their un• to winning ways this Saturday night when they engage the beaten record by whipping DU 22- Hamilton hoO'psters in Alumni Gym at 8 p.m. Last yea.r 15, on last Monday evening. In these two traditional rivals met twice with the Garnet c·ther games played Monday Phi emerging on top in both Contests. a ·reverse in form for these games if a sucQessful ~;eason is to be ·· realized by this Delt remained tied for the Western HOPING to regain the offensive@>--------------.,- divisional lead by edging, out Chi punch exhibited in the opener, th€ Psi 25-22. Alpha Delt, tied for the Union players have been stressing E;astern group lead with Kappa shooting, especially foul shooting Sigma, kept that loop tied up in in an a.ttempt to improve their knots by handing Psi U their sec- ·percentage. The cagers have been ond straight loss 22-20. given an opportunity to rest up year~s team. SINCE the beginning of the<$>-----~------~­ The Wesleyan . ...._ . rivalry, in 1923, the ·Ephmen have won 12 Qf the 13 meets. The other team that beat w~··' ~:· us 5 5.51 IastWed- ·contest was a tie. However, the nesday night was defiintely at two schools have not competed least ten }Joints inferiol' tp ()Ul' against each other since 1937. Wil- team. ]S'ow 'lOine!) ·the que~>ti,U]l, Iiams is reputed to have one of the best small college swimming teams \How come?\ That is a _good ques- in the nation this season. The tion; and there isn't onyone who · wouJ.d like to know the answer Union swimmers have been look- any more .than Coach Nistad or his · ing forward to this meet and can team• Of course, pOOl' shooting be expected to go all out to beat may be expe_cted on an unfamiliar Williams. court, but just what is it that When the final relay was ·over, causes bad passing, poor badl hand- ·on w·ednesday, Union had defeated Hamilton 45-30. In the course of ling, and .poor defense. winning, the Garnet took ftr&t place The last three items canno•t be. in all of the individual events, with I:!Jamed on an unfamiliar court, nor the exception of the 440. Bob can .they be attributed to the re- Dorse was high man for the team feree. There is a definite possibil- with first places in the 50 and 100 ity that the cause of these mistakes yard dashes. Bob Diamond and lies in the fact that a long bus ride Werner Reiners won their indi- tires the team,-just enough to take vidual events and were members away the sharpness required for of the victorious me!ney relay ~ood performances. Then again, team. Ray Mullane His team ready for big one. In other .games played this week for this week's encounter after D Chi 37 Theta Delt 26, liz Pints their two games of last week. 33, Cadavers 31; Sig Phi defaulted Coach Pete Nistad will probably to the Independents, The Snerzigs stick with the quintet which has 27, BEU 26; Phi Gam 34, Betas 31; started the last few contests. Pro- and the Jolly Boys 54, Phi Sigma viding the only height of the Kappa 22. diminutive five is 6'4\ Spen War· AS INTRAMURAL volleyball nick who has been a big factor in went into the fir.al week, Phi pelt getting the ·balf off the boards. Be- Theta and D Phi held substantial sides Warnick, the oiJler starters leads in the Western and No·rthern will be Jim Carmichael, Gene Sections. DU face'!\ a tough job in Schwartzman, G'lenn Kinns, and maintaining their superiority in Dick Davis. Kinns and Carmicha~ the Eastern loop. have led the way- in the scoring Monday's basketball schedule thus far. Backing the first quintet shows the Cadavers playing DU at Nistad will have the remainder of 7, Psi U against the Snerzigs at 8 his eleven man squad consisting and the Half Pir.ts against Sig Phi of Bob Faubel, Bob Murray, Bill at 9. Kaznoski, Frank Chillrud, Ray The volleyball season will end Pomeroy, and Jerry O'Loughlin. on Monday when Theta Delt meets THE GARNET hoopsters went the Snerzigs at 12:55. Basketball down to their second straight de· competition will be resumed Janu- feat last Wednesday night, when ary 3 when Phi Gam meets Beta they were nudged by a taller Wes- Eta at 7, the Holly Boys play Sig, leyan quintet at Middletown, Con- Chi at 8 and D Phi plays the Inds necticut, 53-51, Still having a dif- at 9. ficult time of finding the range I suppose some sort of psychologi- JOHN DUFFY appeared to be cal effect may .also have some bear- picking up where he left off last ing .on the issue. b · · th 220 d t year y wmnmg e yar even won by Reiners, Diamond and Dick Another factor which plays an with comparative ease. Guy Coop- Stark, for Union. important part in our poor per- et•, who was trailing most of the IN THE final relay Hamilton for:mances on the road is the of- race, was just touched out in his took the event when the Garnet flciatlng. At Williams the refs final sprint for third place. _The 50- -was disqualified on a very close were very lax on the oolling of yard race saw a close fimsh for call. Bogg, Chapman, White, and :(ouls in the fonn of moving blocks. second and third, with John Roce bested Duffy Cooper Stark We were n-ot used to this blocking Isbister just beating out Egner. and Pete Tomback, for the Con: and it definitely threw our defense In the dive, Mullane unveiled tinentals. $!!Service and Repairs FLEXIBLE FLYER SKIS wa.y off. On the other hand. WU- two of his new divers. Roger ~============~~ IiaJUS did; ba.ve. a good: ~lub and Hancher took first place and he fi even if the officials had called the was followed by Phil Metzger, who blocks as we ha.ve b,een used to took third place. Both men showed having them called, I d0111bt if we that they need a lot of practi~e, would have bea.ten them. . bUt at the same time they showed For Car Trouble.s See a Union Man • William H. Plath Auto Service 60 I UN ION STREET exclusiv.e at GOLDSTOCK'S SPORTING GOODS 121 N. Broadway~ comer Franklin Street The game at Wesleyan could very a lot of promise for the future. easily be creditl:ld· as a loss due to IN T:EIE 100 yard dash, Dorse the refereeing. We had a total of won one of the cldsest finishes ever six: fie~d gpals t.aken away from, us seen in Foote Pool. The first three by various calls by the referees. places came into- the. finish neck· Also in the last two minutes of and neck and Bob just touched out play while we were within two Egner of Hamilton. Isbister was a points .of Wesleyan. the referees very close third. The results were . seemed to have l0$t their whistles, so close that everyone had to wait : as at least three flagrant fouls until the · judges. consulted their were committed by Wesleyan play- watches to determine the winner. ers in an attempt to keep us from Reiners set the first new record -~=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:~=:==:~!!::=:;:::=:::=:;:::=:==========:::=:=:::=:====:::=::::=:=====~ shooting. of the season. In the 200 yard I hope the abov:e are nqt. taken backstroke event, Reiners took as alibis for lqs~g becaUse I feel first place · with ease. His time, that we sh.o'llld liave been able to 2.:36.8, is the first record for the. overcome the lumdieaps· and have newly- lengthened backstroke race. won the Wesleyan g~e. Union's ·breaststrok.e duo took 1-2. In short I think. tP,et~e are ma.ny Bob Diamond led Gerry Geismar reasons why we are a poor team on to the tape. the road l:)ut WE\'re going to just Walt Gross and Frank Morgan have to learn to accept certain dis.. bad a little more difficulty in the advantages .and. overcome thE\m ii). · 440. Howie Tobias and Charlie order to ha.ve a. successful season. Bates tied for first place in tbe . distance event. Gross took third slot,. in hi11 first freE\style competi- tion. The o.pening. medley relay was . Fresh \·5\ Begins Coach Sam Hammerstrom's call for freshmen basketbaU was an- swered by 35 enthusiasts last Tues- day. Hammerstrom has been con- ducting daily workout!\ and at this- writing has not yet; cut ~he squail down to the desired 15 men. Due to the lack of both time and space in the g,ym, cutting should be a swift process. Hammerstrom's squad s.l}ould be decided upon by the beginning of the holiday sea- son, The frosh open their eight game season on February 3 at Cobles- kill. Last year',;; freshmen team was the first undefeated frosh fiv.e since 1932. Sherwin Selected CoGkle Sherwin •bas been named to the Wllllams College · All Opponent11 fQo'tbaU team. tha Willlama RECORD annomtced. earllel' this week. Prelviously, Jhn Kenny Waf> J)a.Dled as gua.rd to the Hobart COllege All•Op- onents ele~n. SherwJn was picked as defen- sive backer up in the two pia- . toon mythical team. Coold& con• duded his tootbalt t~r at Union this season by plawJ,ng a very fine game in the backe'r 11P spot. He was pa:rticularly outstanding in the fiercely fought Wiiilams contest that the Ephmen won, 14-18, on m/llddy Alexander Field, Homeeorrting Weekend, ' • Watcbes, Jewelry Clocb Repaired • Engraving, tool Jay Jewlery Co.- Electronics 8 @~~\'' reasons why college gradu. ates ·at G.E. find work that they like \In seeking to place eollege grad- uates in jobs they will enjoy doipg,\ M. M. Boring, manager of the Tech- nical Personnel Pivisions, sa.id re- cently, \we at General Electric find our work made easy.by the diversi- fication of the company's business. \We tell a. newcomer to look ~ttound, to work in severd different fields, to try to determine where he will be most satisfied. The company's eight Operating Departments, rang- ing from Chemical to Apparatus, from the making of lamps to the building of big turbines and elec- tric locomotives, give hitn. plenty of room for his search. \Engineers chemists, physicists, and mathematicians, as well as lib- eral arts graduates, all find work here that they can be interested in and c:an do with enthusia-sm. \Their ability to find satisfying jobs with us is, we feel, an impor- tant factor in keeping General Elec- tric aliead in electrical research, engineering, and manufacturing.\ tjoa ccut rf ~ Cfm/tik:e m_ GENERAL. ELECTRI'C. fl'om the field and m1ssmg 17 out of 30 from the foul line, the cagers almost managed to overcome an 11 point deficit but Wesleyan pro· tected its narrow lead in the finaL. feWI minutes of play by freezing the ball. Glenn Kinns seemed the only Union man able to find the hoop, leading the way with seven field goals and four foul shots for a total of eighteen points. This is the highest individual scoring mark for a Garnet eager this season, topping Carmichael's previous· high of seventeen. GETTING the hoopsters off to the right start, Kinns notched a two pointer at the outset of the contest, but Wesleyan came right back to tie it up and go ahead and remain their for the entire contest. The halftime score was 36-25. Twice in the second half the Wesleyans held a nine point spread but Kinns' shooting allowed the Garnet to remain close. The gay was almost closed when the hoop- stars moved to within two points of their opponents in the third quarter with the score standing 44-42. 487 Glenwood Ave. Phila. 40, Pa. Now avaiiable wft'h. MICA RIA Plastic ~Soles,:fot greater.speed arid durability :\\~~~ .......

S, 1950 , FRIDAY, I)P.;CSMBER 15, 1950 3 r having in ques- of the ~~~o;~~;s Union Host to Williams, Hamilton .. !,, 111 ,~;.: .. ~~:::.:~:.::\'\'\'\'\' Mermen ''Up\ For+Volleyballers *Dutchmen Cagers l th:::,\:.::~:;:. Loade·d E;nhm· ·e·n End Monday ·seek Secon. d w· I·n via- obvious; which, in a to letter of con- based signed, it pub- a that its ac- i· penalty respect he is prestige with Com- human must be in an chance nformed few ions are of pro- creat- some- issue. issue, to stu- an college 1 Union. and quite editors, paper that means where of the frater- of sym- The to ory ex- de- be on for to \ or pus Y. from home :stands right now. With '.1:' As the intramural basketbaN sea- son rolled Into the second week ef By Bill Mohrmmm seven away By Irwin Barg activity, Kappa Alpha in the northern lea•gue was the only quin- tet to hold a clear cut lead in any Returning to the friendly confines of their home court, the Union College basketball team will also hope to return to winning ways this Saturday night when they engage the Hamilton hoopsters in Alumni Gym at 8 p.m. Last year these two traditional rivals met twice with the Garnet emerging on top in both contests. The Garnet swimming team will compete against Wil- ef the 3 divisions. games remaining. it is an apparent necessity to have a reverse in form for these .games ~f a successful season is to be realized by this year's team. . Hams Co1lege, its toughest OJ3ponent of the 1950-51 season, tomorrow afternoon in Foote Pool at 2:30 as Ray Mullane's men seek their second victory of the campaign in what should be a tough battle. The Dutchmen will also be seek- ing their first victory over the visitors. THE CAPS maintained their un- beaten record by whipping DU 22- 15, on last Monday evening. In < ther games played Monday Phi Delt remained tied for the Western divi~ional lead by edginr. out Chi Psi 25·22. Alpha Delt, tied for the E'lstern group lead with Kappa Sigma., k•·pt that loop tied up in kn•Jts by hon•ling Psi U theit• sec- HOPING to regain the offensive@>---------------- The ·wesleyan team that beat us 53-51 last Wed- nesday night was defiintely at least ten points inferior to our team. Now comes the question, SINCE the beginning of the'S> rivalry, in 1923, the Ephmen have I won 12 of the 13 meets. The other i contest was a tie. However, the I two schools have not competed 1 against each other sinee 1937. Wil-l Iiams is reputed to have one of the best small college swimming teams \How come?\ That is a good ques- in the nation this season. The tion, and there isn't onyone who would like to know the answer Union swimmers have been look- any more than Coach Nistad or his team. Of course, poDr shooting may be expected on an unfamiliar court, but just what is it that causes bad passing, poor ball hand- ling, and poor defense. The last three items canno-t be blamed on an unfamiliar court, nor can they be attributed to the re- feree. There is a definite possibil- ity that the cause of these mistakes lies in the fact that a long bus ride tires the team, just enough to take away the sharpness required for good performances. Then again, I suppose some sort of psychologi- cal effect may also have some bear- ing on the issue. Another factor which plays an ~mportant part in our Jl()Or per- formances on the road is the of· ficiatlng. At Williams the refs were very lax on the calling of fouls in the form of moving blocks. We were not used to this blocking and it definitely threw our defense way off. On the other hand Wil- liams did have a good club and e'ven if the officials had called the blocks as we have been used to having them called, I doubt if we would have beaten them. The game at Wesleyan could very easily be credited as a loss due to the refereeing. We had a tDtal of six field goals taken away from us by various calls by the referees. Also In the last two minutes of play while we were within two points of Wesleyan the referees seemed to have lost their whistles, as at least three flagrant fouls were committed by Wesleyan. play- ers in an attempt to keep us from shooting. I hope the above are not twken as alibis for losing because I feel that we should have been able to overcome the handicaps and have won the Wesleyan game. In short I think there are many reasons why we are a poor team on the road but we're going to just have to learn to accept certain dis- advantages and overcome them in order to have a successful season. 0 Frosh \5\ Begins Coach Sam Hammerstrom's call for freshmen basketball was an- swered by 35 enthusiasts last Tues- day. Hammerstrom has been con- ducting daily workouts and at this writing has not yet cut the squad down to the desired 15 men. ing forward to this meet and can be expected to go all out to beat WiUiams. When the ·final relay was ·over, on Wednesday, Union had d\feated Hamilton 45-30. In the course of I winning, the Garnet took first place in aH of the individual e> ents, with the exception of the 440. Bob Dorse was high man for the team with first places in the 50 and 100 yard dashes. Bob Diamond and Werner Reiners won their indi- vidual events and were members of the victorious medley relay team. JOHN DUFFY appeared to be picking up where he left off last year by winning the 220 yard event with comparative ease. Guy Coop- er, who was trailing most of the race, was just touched out in his final sprint for third place. The 50 yard race saw a close finish for second and third, with John Isbister just beating out Egner. In the dive, Mullane unveiled two of his new divers. Roger Hancher took first place and he was followed by Phil Metzger, who took third place. Both men showed that they need a lot of practice, but at the same time they showed a lot of promise for the future. IN THE 100 yard dash, Dorse won one of the closest finishes ever seen in Foote Pool. The first three places came into the finish neck and neck and Bob just touched out Egner of Hamilton. Isbister was a very close third. The results were so close that everyone had to wait until the judges consulted their watches to determine the winner. Reiners set the first new record of the season. In the 200 yard backstroke event, Reiners took first place with ease. His time, 2.:36.8, is the first record for the newly lengthened backstroke race. Union's breaststroke duo took 1-2. Bob Diamond led Gerry Geismar to the tape. Walt Gross and Frank Morgan had a little more difficulty in the 440. Howie Tobias and Charlie Bates tied for first place in the distance event. Gross took third slot, in his first freestyle competi- tion, The opening medley relay was Due to the lack of both time and space in the gym, cutting should be a swift process. Hammerstrom's squad should be decided upon: by the beginning of the holiday sea- son. The frosh open their eight game season on February 3 at Cobles- kill. Last year's freshmen team was the first undefeated frosh five since 1932. Sherwin Selected Coolde Sherwin •has been named to the Williams Oollege All OppDnents football team, the Williams RECORD announced earlier this week. PreViously, Jim Kenny was named as gu!lird to the Hobart College All-Op- onents eleven. Sherwin was piclmd as de:fen- sive backer up in the two pla- toon mythical team. Coolde con· eluded his football carool' at Union this season by playing a very fine game in the backer up spot. He was pa;rticularly outstanding in the fiercely fought Williams contest that the Ephmen won, 14-lS, on muddy Alexander Field, Homecoming We'ekend. ' • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Co. Ray Mullane His team I\eady fo1• big one. won by Reiners, Diamond and Dick Stark, for lJnion. IN THE final relay, Hamilton took the event when the Garnet was disqualified on a \'ery close call. Bogg, Chapman, White, and Roce bested Duffy, Cooper, Stark, and Pete Tomback, for the Con- tinentals. For Car Troubles See a Union Man • William H. Plath Auto Se.rvice 601 UNION STREET ·md stt:.!..:lt Jo\s 22-20. Jr: otho.~· gnn:r·o; played this week D Cl:i 37 Th• t'' Delt 26, 1 ·\ Pints 33, C?ch·.<'t' 31; S·g Phi defaulted ·n tice lt:doopen.J\nts. The Snerzigs 27. BEC 2G; Phi Gam 34, Bl'tas 31; <tnd the J•,Jiy Buy~ 54. Phi Sigma Kap 1 •a ~2. .\S 1:-.iTRA.:\U' HAL volleyball W•'llt into ti1f' firal WC<•k, Phi Delt Tl.eta and D Phi held substantial leads in the \\'estern and No·rthern Section:;. DlJ f .-cP:'\ a tough job in l ma:r,tainm.; ti1e1r superiority in the Easte1 n loop. Monda·;·s basketb~ll schedule '<hc>ws th.e C'ndavers playing DU at 7. Fsi t: a>:ainst the Snerzigs at 8 and the H• lf Pir.ts against Sig Phi at 9. The vo lie\· b• II season will end on :\:on day ;_,.,hen Theta DPlt meets lhe Sner.<:igs at 12:55. Basketball competition \\Ill be resumed Janu- ary 3 when Phi Gam meets Beta Eta at 7. the Holly Boys play Sig Chi at 8 and D Phi plays the Inds at 9. punch exhibited in the opener, the Union players have been stressing shooting, especially foul shooting in an attempt to improve their percentage. The cagers have been given an opportunity to rest up for this week's encounter after their two games of last week. Coach Pete Nistad will probably stick with the quintet which has started the last few contests. Pro- viding the only height of the diminutive five is 6'4\ Spen War- nick who has been a big factor in getting the ball off the boards. Be- sides Warnick, the otP,er starters wHI be Jim Carmichael, Gene Schwartzman, Glenn Kinns, and Dick Davis. Kinns and Carmicha~l have led the way in the scoring thus far. Backing the first quintet Nistad will have the remainder of his eleven man squad consisting of Bob Faubel, Bob Murray, Bill Kaznoski, Frank Chillrud, Ray Pomeroy, and Jerry O'Loughlin. THE GARNET hoopsters went down to their second straight de- feat last \Vednesday night, when they were nudged by a taller \\'es- leyan quintet at Middletown, Con· necticut, 53-51. Still ha\•ing a dif- ficult time of finding the range S~i Service and Repairs FLEXIBLE FLYER SKIS exclusiv·e at GOLDSTOCK'S S·PORTING GOODS 121 N. Broadway, corner Franklin Street \In seeking to place college grad- uates in jobs they will enjoy doing,\ M. M. Boring, manager of the Tech- nical Personnel Divisions, said re· cendy, \we at General Electric find our work made easy by the diversi- fication of the company's business. \We tell a newcomer to look around, to work in several different fields, to try to determine where he will be most satisfied. The company's eight Operating Departments, rang- ing from Chemical to Apparatus, from the making of lamps to the building of big turbines and elec· tric locomotives, give him plenty of room for his search. \Engineers chemists, physicists, and mathematicians, as well as lib· eral arts graduates, all find work here that they can be interested in and can do with enthusiasm. \Their ability to find satisfying jobs with us is, we feel, an impor- tant factor in keeping General Elec- tric ahead in electrical research, eagineering, and manufacturing.\ f}l}(£ «MZ # ~ con/~nce m_ GENERAL. ELECTRIC from the field and m1ssmg 17 out of 30 from the foul line, the cagers almost managed to overcome an 11 point deficit but Wesleyan pro- tected its narrow lead in the final few minutes of play by freezing the ball. Glenn Kinns seemed the only Union man able to find the hoop, leading the way with seven field goals and four foul shots for a total of eighteen points. This is the highest individual scoring mark for a Garnet eager this season, topping Carmichael's previous high of seventeen. GETTING the hoopsters off to the right start, Kinns notched a two pointer at the outset of the contest, but Wesleyan came right back to tie it up and go ahead and remain their for the entire contest. The halftime score was 36-25. Twice in the second half the Wesleyans held a nine point spread but Kinns' shooting allowed the Garnet to remain close. The gay was almost clrJ:;ed when the hoop- stars moved to within two points of their opponPnts in the third quarter with the score standing 44-42, ~~ ::: ~ l f f ' ll ~eat.· s;-L~AJ(EN~& 487 Glenwood Ave. Phila. 40, Pa. Now available wiih MICARTA Plastic Soles· .. for·_ greater speed and durability SKI PATROL

I: 4 Profs Debate Many Topics At Meetings Tha Social Studies Colloquiin has expanded from its original purpose of integrating the div1sion II pro- fessors as a means of furthering the integration of student courses. · West College Dornl' Red Debate . (.Continued from Pag(ll) (Continued f-rom Pa;ge 1) . rooms. Spacious lounging rooms muni:;;ts ;,include lies, d$(leit, riqts, · ' and a small attractive library have slander, arson, murder, treason if · been provided. in West College. necessary infiltration with intent: ' · Modernistic designs seems to he to destroy, etc., etc.\ The question . '·the keynote of the interior. 'is therefore tha,t such a: person~· A striking feature of the edifice · one who ascribes to this morality-' is the large, artistically-pl:;mned', be allowed to teach 1n A:metican tile-l'iool'ed dining room which ·colleges.. Von Scltlichten defined· easily may be converted into a teaching not as a 9 to 5 proposi- dancing-room. The pantry is ade- tlon, but as .a way of life. \It in- ·quately suppiied with necessary eludes a belief-a morality which · ·equipment •and, like the dining conflicts with the ·Communist room is soundproofed. Waiter-s morality. A com:rnunlst therefore serve suppers rather than the boys disqualifies .J:dmseif from teaching. ' eating cafeteria style. ·He has a perfect right tO' be a . UPSTAIRS are clean, well-fur- communist, he concluded, but :he . . nished rooms. They are however hasn't the rig-ht to -be a college. rather small; but if the furniture professor.\ · is arvanged wisely, they are large After the formal speeches the FIUDAY. DEQEMBER 15. 1950 Wishing ·Ev~ryone a MERRY XMAS We remain the Students• Laundry WGYLaundry Four Day complete THE MEETINGS are now car- ried on in an informal atmosphe~e as papers are read and subsequent- ly discussed by the attending mem- bers ·Of the faculty. The topics up for discussion are left to the discre- tion of the members asked to lead the meetings. Prepared in advance and written on a scholarly academic level the topics discanted upon are almost always relevant to the field in which the speaker is an author- ity. John Lewis presently engaged as a member of the Council of \No kidding, George, you should have taken engineering.'' . enough to serve their purpose as discussion was opened to the house .. · bedrooms. No longer are the frosh Twenty-one speeches were made obliged to listen to .the idle prattle 1irom the floor, including those of from the neighboring rooms, since ·students anq faculty members. The • the solid walls convey but little debate was attended by an en-, . Laundry Service 52:0 Union Street Fast Barred From Talking sound. · thusiastic group which was made West College to all outward ap- up largely of members of the stu- Only ~· Blocks from Economic Advisors, was honored by Howard Fast, controversial~------------ having his paper on \The Political novelist. was banned last week complete abdication of academic Implications of Keynesian Eco- from speaking at Columbia and pearance is more like a reso11t dent body. .· hotel than a college dormitory. Un- The vote tal!;en before the :be-, doubtedly it is one of the finest ginning of the .debate showed 41· Union. Campus responsibility, that speakers on nomic Theory'' reprinted in the New York universities. controversial issues must receive \Antioch Review\. AT NYU, the chairman of the . \objective examination.\ college dorms in the country. for the motion and: 14 op.posed. Conducted as informally as is Faculty Committee on Student Af- Some of Fast's novels have been possible, the group has no hier- fairs said that he had based his banned in school systems through- · archical organization, the only ad- decision on a recent ruling that out the country. The Union Col- ministrator being the leader of the persons who have served jail sen- lege library, however, has several individual metings. The gatherings tences or have been convicted of of his boolrs. are open to all faculty members but crimes, are \undesirable\ as pros- to this date have been attended pective speakers to student gr·oups. SHOP NOW! ---0•--- almost unanimously by Division II The professor states that he was B Jd 6 t Spe k instructors_ It is felt that student not concerned with Fast's opinions,. a· WID . 0 a attendance, while not discouraged, but rather with the fact he had would add a note of unnecessary recently served a three-month scn- fot·mality to the meetings. tence fot· contempt of Congress. THE COLLOQUIM is a strictly At Columbia, the vice-president \home grown'' activity not subject and provost stated that the univer- to the immediate jurisdiction of the sity upholds the policy of academic college administration. freedom, but to automatically ap- ---o prove of any speaker would be a Union Alumnus Dies in Crash The first Union alumnus in the armed forces to be killed since the last World War perished in a plane crash last Monday afternoon in Lewiston, New York. He was Lt. Louis Steege, 27, a marine corps reserve pilot. He had been in Marine aviation for four years. STEEGE WAS on a routine flight when his engine failed. His last radio message stated that he would try to land with his wheels up, but after the crash landing the plane went up in flames. A member of the class of '45. Steege took a B.S. in '48 and, an M.S. in '49. While in school before the war, he held the Mandeville Scholarship, and was constantly in the first quarter of his class. He was interested in Hockey and La- crosse and was a charter membez· of the flying club. IllS FUNERAL was held on Wednesday, Decmber 13 at Wat- kins Glen. Burial will be at the National Cemetery in Elmira. Union College was represented by David C. Mandeville, a classmate of Steege's and son of the donor of StePge's scholarship. Cleats for Walk Wc·oden cleats will be con- structed up U'ppr:>r Closs Walk this winter to prevent students from falling on the icy slope. according to Business Manager Theodore R. ::\IrlllwanP. The entire grade will be cov- ered by wooden planks. to which the cleats will be attached. The collep! does not plan to build steps on the walk in the near future, acco·rding to Me Illwan·e. Choir Presents Church Concert The Union Colle>ge choir pre>- sented a Christmas concert in th<' Granville Baptist Church. Gz·an- ville, on Dec. 10. Bt>Rides the num- bers by the choir, the program in- cluded solos by Robert Munay and Frederick Conklin and organ selec- tions by Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. ON THE WAY bacl{ from Grar.- ville, the bus carrying the choir was forced to stop for an old car that had overturned in the road. The members of the choir had to aright the car and push it off the road bdore the bus could. pass by· ~all of which was done to the ~c­ companiment of Yr:> Union Boys Whose Pipes Are Lit (but not the choirl. The choir is planning sPveral trips for the coming term, includ- iilg one to a girls' school. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall - X-BAY FITTING UlS State St.-81nce 18911 On Monday evening, Dec. 18, Dr. G. C. Baldwin of the General Elec- tric Company, will speak to the Physics Society on GE's 100 MEV Betatron. The meeting will begin at 7:30 p.m. in room 202 physics laboratory. GRUPPER'S Your Hearquarters I • ........ , L G. BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES - RINGS - FAVOBS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFT8 STATIONERY - PROGRAMS OLUB PINS- KEYS MEDALB - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN SO M~ Ave, Waterford. N.Y. PHONE TROY-AD.A:&fB 8-t.'W For Your Christmas Gift 185 Jay Street (Next to Fanny Farmer) Start Hinting Now For Yon~ Arrow-Gifts Best Choice .•• To Get ••. To Give! .. , For giving or getting ••• no finer choice than Arrows. Arrow shirts ••• in a wide selection of popular collar styles. SportS shirts • . . tailored to perfection, really comfortable. Hand~erchiefs, BIG as you like 'em • • • and wrinkle-resistant ties that knot and drape like a dream! See your Arrow dealer •.. now l Shirts $3.65 up Ties $1.00 up Sports Shirts $3.95 UP. Handkerchiefs 35¢. UP. THE ACME BARBERSHOP 509 UNION ST. • ARROWsniRTS & TIES \Where the Service is a Pleasure'\ (Nearest to the Campus) • HANDKERCHIEFS • SfORTS SH~R:J'~ ~·•••••••••••••••••••·•••••••••inil•••••••••••••••u. • • ~ . R B • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • :5 GAZETTE PRESS 5 • • • • •• • • • • • • • i P.r.inters 5 • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~ . • • • • • • • • ·• ·• • • • • , .............................................•. ~ FOR DAD, BROTHER, UNCLE, FRIEND •• t Corne Here fQr ARROWS ••• Best Christmas Gifts We Know! Arrive home • • • ~ith your gift shoppi.ng com• . plete. for the man m the family. Come in aftet classes. tod.ay ••.. and let us show you our com~ ~Jete gtft hne- up. ~rrow s~ira:, •. sports shirts ••• ~es • • • handkerchiefs!. Bnng m your Christmas list ••• now. Shirts $3.65 up Ties .$1;00 up S.Poi'ls Shirrs $3.95 up Handkerchiefs 35¢ up NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE STREET f0'R ARKOW UH~VIRIUY UYUI J Vol. 78. No Da~ Presid should n-ot lieu .of ne' Departmer news to c start of ti A plan w< Marshall a1;1• to be broug proposed a~ proposals it: 1. T:iiAT of the 18~y cause our care of thel 2. That e of four mm furloughed their collel their recor and qthel'VI special Cia~ given train• their returi s. THA1 have comJ: year a:t col complete tl 4. That I groups will years of cc 5. 'THA'l T.C. and th N.R.O.T.C.'i will be gii me11 and tl ceive gove: ation of President term 1 fresl: R.O.T.C. g best meth college ed 6. That theh• indl academic lowed to 1 7. That made to i or not tb to lessen of college country. THE R Associatio from whi• turned .oJ commend; student's should be ing his pi This, of to a quo1 were in c Rosenber partment ference ·l has the l proval. 1 dent Dav of the pr• Bo~ Su~ The B• ask the sponsor ternlty dividual at their DAVD thecu.p ternity · age of or mor tion wa: at their A rec the Pul lication disconU of :Mam tation 1: vertisin . lication: 'THE uctpate \Voice on stat activit!.• the brc · RA'I ·Th~ it w:m day, J c'Qi'ren· open u 22nd v