',. Aro.und Town A ooed at St. Louis University has applied for admil313ion to the aWmale air force ROT\C unit. She read up on the regulations which say \any student\ is eligible. Of- ficials have never been faced With Found at Union College in 1877 .. SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1950 • StS PRICE 10 CENTS a 13imi]ar siti.uition, · Vol. 78,. No; 1 ~ ~ ~ ------------~------------~------~----------------------------------------------.---------------------------~------------------------ SpiritedFreshmen Form Large Class AT 1;HE' THEATE~S s d H Proctor's: ·~Summer Stock\ in tech- ·t· u· ·. y . . . o· ·urs nicolor with Judy .Garland and Gene Keily. \A Lady Without ··:, Passport\ with Hedy Lamarr. s· harpl. y Cut State: \R{)gues of Sher:Wood For- . , ' · · · .· . · · · ' . · est'' with John Del.'elt an,d Diallut Lynn, Glenn Ford and: Broder- B. L • b • ick ''Oscar\ Crawford ~~Jre in . . ..y· . l ' rar1. an \Oonv!eted.'' · · - ]l)i'ie: ''(Jh,am.pagn,e for Ca.eSar\ T ~1 1· 'b h with Ronald Col!ma.n and Celeste . he C01 ege . 1 rary as un- . Holm is a :i>leasi:!Jlt eomedy with, dergone a number of changes \D completing the bill. for the new year, including a ;;. If. l{o drastic cut in working hours. Earlier this summer local news- THIS YEAR the library will papers carried an item on taxing close. its dc'()rs each weekday ni'ght of fl,'aternity houses on the Union at 9;30. an hour and a half earlier Qollege campus. Houses off cam- than in past years. Saturday sched- pus have been paying taxes, but ule has .Peen cut to four hours, · , not.. so .those :within the gates. The from 8 a.'in. until noon, and the li- atgument for taxing the houses· iS· brary 'Will be open from 5:3o p.~. that they are net' used for ed11ca-'. until 9:30 on Sundays. tiona! purposes. Dormitories, which The desk has .been moved f;rom ace· also income producing and non- the right side of the entrance to educational in nature, would also . the left, in order to cut down c·n be subject to assessment. The . the. number of books \borrowed\ only .other article carried by the by students who neglecte{l to sign. area papers on the subject was a. .out for them. Under the new sys- statemen.t .by a Rotterdam author- tern. Helmer Webb and his staff· ity stating that as long as the town have an excellent view of people could not tax United States gov- leaving th.e lib~ry and will not· ernrp.ent property, school and hsitate collaring anyone suspected .. cnurch property wouW not be taxed of taking out unsign.ed books. in Rotterdam. IN AJ)DITION, ten new box:e:;; :fo :fo lfo for records and $200 worth of pic- La~t construction on campus is· tures for the walls have been presently taking place between added. The cubicles are now placed Dailey Field and DutclunM's Vii- so that they are viewable to the lage. The city is coo.strncting a ·library staff. hThe idea behind sewer through to WendeR avenue. that is that the librarians were according to unofficial repo:rts. tired of finding .half\eaten lunches, lfo If. If.; beC:Iroom slippers and other foreign With the price of h~irctits in articles hidden in the corners. Schenectady up to $1.10 as of last Tuesday, the frosh might well look forward to a visit from the SDC. (Barber college cuts could be worse?) A Concordy scal;l tells us he knows of several shops close to the campus which still charge --~· o--..,- ROTC Offers ·Opportunities 65 cents. lfo lfo :;. The Air Sciet).ce and Tactics de- University of washington offi- partment is inten~lfying Its activi- ties as a direct result of the war cials announced a little sheepishly in Korea. The u.s. Air Force nee!ls this week that they had stoppe(l. more officers and desires college . taking pictures of campus coeds - c d in the nude as a result oil' numer- graduates, preferably ROT gra .- · ous complaints by irate parents. uates, according to Col. Edward J •. Negatives for some 300 pictures al- Soulliere, USAF. ready talten would be destroyed, mGHLIGHTING this . drive is they said. The poses were sup- a new opportunity available for posedly to be use'd in some hum~ veterans less tll.an 28.years of age. growth studies, but it seems that. with at least' one year's active U. Lof ,V, males. would never l!}t service. Seniors majoring in such a good thin.g slip through physics or engineering may novi their fingers without investigation. take a one year cours~ in c.om- Anybody need • an nnemployed munications, spend six weeks at· photogr!!iPher? summer camp, and receive a cpm- FroshCamp -Photo by Harp Sllown al/ove are two of the typical scenes of this year's Freshman Camp at which 202 .freslunen and foreign :;;tudents spent four days on the .shores of Lall;e George. The top photo shows the swimming which was featured twice each day with ~ members o:f the swimming team acting as life guards. · The 8econd view was .taken in the mess hall where in the short period of camp 1648 quarts o:f milk, 300 loaves of bread. and 729 pounds of meat were consm:n,ed to bring the total weight .uf all of the foojl.. eaten to over three quarters <If a ton. The program at the camp included orientation talks, athletics, mountain climbing, a lake excursion and even a brief demonstra- tion on hazing and how to develope class spirit, · lfo :to ~ mission as a second lieutenant in the Air Force Reserve upon gradu- · St d t A d dA •d A new faculty ruling at Barnard College penalizes freshmen only for not attending classes. Penal- ties foi' upperclassmen cutting have been abolished. ation rand completion of this course. . . ·u .. en .S war· . ·e . ., Juniors less than 27 years of age c,. with a minimum of one yea:r's. ' previous military service, major- R · E s d ing in physics or engineering may · 0 .. r . ·u- ~o~·· ea·n.· tu .. Y· · enroll in the advanced course, 1 1 ---·o--- The most recent additions to the campus of Union Col- lege, numbering 310 strong and ·garbed in the traditional garnet beany:, have begun their ·college careers in many dif- fepent ways influenced by backgrounds varied and disti:n- guished. :......-------------~ THE FRESHMEN represent 14 Enrol . lm. ·ent· . different states .and two fOreign ·countries. Of this number, 21 stu- . dents a1:e the sons of older Union D B l men, while 19 are following in the . ·. rop· s . e ·0 w fooTts~eps of their big brothers. h1s year, as in previous years, 1100 St d t there are a number of new sec- . . u en s Qndary schools represented, this ' · time ranging· in the vicinity of 19. College enrollment for the !!Chool Some of the freshmen have attend- year of 1949.-50 totals 1089 students, ed secondary schools as far away according to figures obtained from as Michigan, Ohio, Washington, the registrar's office. This is con- D.C., Florida, and California, as siderably lower than last Septem- well as Germany and China. Thir- ber's total of 1328 students, and on • teen percent of the freshmen at- closer analysis of the figures, two tended private schools while the reasons were given fOr the marked remainder are the product of the decrease. public school system. ONE EXPLANATlON is that AS FAR as the Sophomore Disci- 1,000 students is the maximum size pline Committee is concerned, the that the college wants to reach, and the other reason is the decline largest complaint is that the class, of' veteran students. Last year as a whole has very good spirit. there were 533 veterans enrolled at There were two haircuts in Fresh- Union, whereas there are approxi- man Camp, and more may follow, mately 200 here for the current as the S.D.C. is holding its first school year. This year's freshman trial as this paper goes to press. The paint on the idol has not last~ Latest enrollment figures is- ed very long, due to the fact th~ sued for the fall term show a frosh have learned that :fire total of 1089 undergraduates and changes the color of paint even 128 graduate students at Union. faster than another coat. Class breakdown: freshmen: The singing of the freshmen 310; sophomores: 266; juniors: class in Memorial Chapel, one ·Of 230; seniors: 283; special: 30. the new innovations attributed to class is larger than last year's, S.D.C. Chairman, Richa,rd Nemetn, having 310 frosli as compared to has as yet been rather wealt, but 288. It is interesting to ):late that looks to be a pleasing addition to the).\e are only .about 8 veterans in th~ list of freshman rules. the class of 1954. The peak of GI's THE SCHENECTADY students in American colleges is past, anft represented in the class of '54 have soon they will be but a memory at dropped from last year's 11.7·% to many colleges. 9.4%. The students representing Faculty changes have been nu- New York City have remained at · merous this year, and new men in- the same 12%. The percentage of elude Mr. John B. Henderson, M.A., students representing New Y.ork of St. Andrews, Scotland, who is State, and New Jersey have both visiting professor from St. An- increased py one percent, while drews University. Another teacher those representing the New Eng- from abroad is M. Pierre Drillien land States have declined by 13iX from France, who will replace Mr. percent. Frederick A. Spear. As far as the scholastic standing PROFESSOR Harold A. Larra- of th€ class is concerned, there bee has. returned from a year's were 76 students who had sec- leave of absence to his position as ondary school averages of 90% head of the philosophy department. and over, while 91 students filled One notable loss is that Professor the 85% to 89% niche. · Warren C. Taylor has retired after forty yea.rs of service to the col~ FOLLOWING Mr. Wilford.Ketz's lege. Dr. Ernest :M:. Ligon bas re- · feelings that grades are not every- turned thing, there is a rather good rep· AFROTC, and upon graduation re- ceive a commission as a reserve Anthony V. Fiacco '50 and Robert Breen '49 have both c·h .second lieutenant. d. f 1 h' ~ • . est THOUGH THE AFROTC unit receive el ows 1ps, granted m nati<:m-wide competitiOn, to w est College To~Open By. Drive Slowly resei,ltation of different extra-cur~ ricular <!-Ctivities among the neQ- phytes. In secondary schools, 37 men participated in varsity foot- ball, 25 in varsity basketball, 18 in varsity baseball, 34 in varsity track, and 10 in varsity swimmers. Class presidents number 17,· while there are 60 student council mema bers, 77 members of various mu- sical organizations, and 43 took part in dramatic productions. Twenty~eight students were editors of school publications. at Union College presently accepts $tUdy at an advanced level in European universities. Pro- s· ta· rts only science majors and engineer- fessor Gordon R. Silber, Fullbright Program Adviser, an- ing. students into its advanced . nounced this week. The Campus Ch€st, an . organiza- course (juniors and seniors), Btu- ~ :FIAOOQ of JohiJ.stowll, N,Y·., will tion whose purp,ose it is to collect The· a,d.m. inistration hopes t.o have dents in all courses may enroll in Co d S aff t dy thA ti ~ t th s 1 funds from the students and ana- the bas .ie course of ROTC if other- ncor y' t . s u :rna .,rna OS a e . cuo a cate them to various cha. ritable or- West· College, the new freshmen N 1 S · ~ t ·p· · It 1 WI . 'se. qualifie'd,· · orma e uperlOre· a Isa, a y, gan1'zations, has a.nnounced the dormitory, completed by Thanks- . giving. The lack of plumping and Any student in anr class inter- Cha· nges LI~s· te\ d on a Fulbright grant. Prior to figures for this year's contribu- heating equipment, which 1s delay- ested in, the AFROTC program · · · !his, Fiacco will have a month of. tions. The total at the present ing the dorm's opening, should be should contact .a member of the Changes in the staff of the Con- intensive language review at the. time is $1,462 as, compl:l.red with delivered by the end of October, Air Scien,ce staff to ascertain his cordiensis were announced this University of Perngia. $2,163 at the same date last year. according to Theodore R. Mcll- eligibility or receive an answer to week by Wolfgang J. Riemer,. This figure will grow larger as waine, college business manager. his que13tions. Students ineligible editor. Breen of Great Neck, N.Y., will more funds are added from the ALL BREAKFASTS and dfn- last year may be eligible this year. MARTIN SIEGEL, a senior, was work in philosophy and literature pledges due on Nov. :1. Thanksgiving Alterations Delay 'Skeller Opening ners for the freshmen and inde- However; reservists are warned named an associate editor and Jay. at Heidelburg University in Ger: TmS TERM a relatively new pendelits wil~ be served at West that they will lose their status if · N. Cohn, a junior, will take over many: He is the winner of a fel- system w~s used for collecting the College. The students will have accepted into thi13 program. . the duties of managing editor. students' donatiol;ls. At registra- The Union College Dutchman's the choice of eating lunch at Hale Other new appointments to the lowship offered by the Germanistic tion each student received a Rathskeller is undergoing various House, Wests College, or the :{ra- . paper's senior board are iohn Ken- Society of America and. adminis- \check\ card on which he marked changes and alteratic·ns before· ternities. The cafeteria system will Sp. ea- kers·. For nedy, Marvin Kohn, Willard Tay- tered by the Institute of Interna-. the amol,lnt of money donated and opening for business this semester. be use(l for breakfast ahd lunch; lor and Jerome Gar'tner, page tional Edlication. · to which organizations he wished A new gas grill is being installed. di 'nners WJ'll .be· by· table serv- d't R b rt Smith fe ture his gift directecl. Those who de- This new grill, man.Y times Iarg.er e 1 ors; 0 e ' a TWO OTHER. Un1'on alumni f ·I'ce, ~he· present pta:.n is.· to have F II Ch } edt'tor· and Robert Grindley n1'r sired to, could make pledges o than the one previously used will fa:r;nily style dl:nners which means . ·a . ap· e .· . culati~n manager. ' \ - held Fulbright grants for 1949-50. money which are to be collected turn out hamburgers etc. four the main courses will be .served in REMAINING on the senior Frank S. Thyne Jr. ' 42 • former on Nov. 1. -tim!ls as fast and in ttirn make the large dishes for the entire table. Union College Chaplain C. Victor. board are Don Cregier, associate Englir;~h instructor at UnGion studied THE FOLLOWING is the list service to the students that much The cqllege hopes· tO' ·tear down. Brown has announced chapel editor; Donald Schwartz, sports in France, and Myron ale Hoff- of organizations to which the quicker. Hale House if the war situation · ·· s d~ ed_itor·, and Burton Grusky, busi- man ' 40 has done work ill com- . money Will be allocated: ALSO BEING added to the re- speakers for coming un ays as parative literature in Rome. The Community Chest of Sche- permits. . follows: · ness manager. . niodled social hal lis a new system West Cqlleg~ will accommodate Appointed to the J'unior board. Professor Silber also announced nectady, The United Negro College of lighting. This plus the new de- Sept, 24-Chaplain C. Vietor Brown · Fu d The Am · F · ds Serv· about 175 fres)lmen· on three floors. were John Cassidy, assistant sports the open!Jlg of the competition for n • · encan nen · - corations will tend to brighten up The first floor contains the dining Oct. 1-Rev. John Oliver Nelson, editor; Lawrence Levine, exciiange awar-ds under the Fulbright Act ice, The World Studemt Service the surroundings. room, an apartment for the proc- Yale Divinity School . editor; Joseph Handler, assistant fpr 1951-52. The awards will en- . FUnd, Save the Children Federa- The real delay in opening how- tor, Arthur IJawrence, a library, a Oct. 8-Dr. Wilbur E. Saunaers; busirtesa manager;; and William able students in all fields of gradu- tion, United Cerebral Palsy Fountl· ever, is due to the corresponding sitting room to entertain guests President of Co 1 gate· Winchester, assistant circulation ate work to study in foreign insti- atlon, American Heart Association, delay in getting the new state\ap• and several game rooms. TJle Rochester Divinity SChool manager. tutions under renoWned professors Cooperation for Remittance to proved licenses. This is due to the Qampus postoffice will be located Oct. 15-Pr. Russell E:enry Staf- ALL FRESHMEN interested in .and speciaUsts. Grants are nor- Euro.pe (books), Union College In- fact that last year the student on the Nott Street side. . ford, President of Hart- any phase of newspaper work are· mally made for one academic year ternational Reconstruction Fund. body was incorporated to· enable THE COLLEGE is planning to ford Seminary Founda- url;ed to jt>in the Concordiensis. and include· ·round trip transporta- .o the corporation to take out beer use the furniture in the pasbtre tion staff; There are openings for in- tion,. tuition, a living allowance, Dtaft Status Given and other licenses. d.orms for West College when it Oct. 22:-Chaplain C. Victor Brown terested students, with or without and a small ·amount for books and President Carter Davidson ha,s PRICES will generally remain Q,Pens. Thil3 will later be replaced Oct. 2!)--,.Dr. John B. Thompson, previous newspaper experience, in equipment. Interested students announced that men now in there- the ~Same and some articles will be with the type of furniture now in Dean of Chapel Univer~ nearly every department of the now enrolled . in Union College serves will Iilo$t iikely be deferred so~d at cost. The profit that is de- North and South Colleges. To sity of Chicago paper. sho'Qld request. application forms by their draft boards until tb,e end rived from various sales will be make the dormitory s!lem like The first Sunday of every month Meetings are held every Monday ~romptly from Professor Silber. of the term. He also stated that used for some purpose a~ those of home, the rooms have been .painted Dr. Elmer Ti(l.marsh will give !t at 1 p.m. in the doncordy offices. Tbe dosing datE! tor receipt of ·those who receive d~8.ft notices will . la,st year were usec,l for the pay- in pleasant pastel shade-s. pul:lllo organ recital at 4:0Q p.mr in Washburn Hall. applicationl3 is Oct. 81, 1960, l:ie deferiecl until .June; ~ ment of the alterations.

2 FiUDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1950 Frosh Fun My Word! Member Associated Col· legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na.. thmal Advertising Service, Iw:., College Publisher\ Representative. 420 Madi· son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub· lished every Friday of the s<·hool year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- l!catlon Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond C'lass Mall Matter. •ubscription lOc a copy; $3 year delivered any- where in the United Stntes. SENIOR BOARD WOLFGANG J. RIEMER ...................................... Editor DON M. CREGIER .......... , ......................... Associate Editor MARTIN SIEGEL .................................... Associate Editor JAY N. COHN ........................................ Managing Editor JOHN P. KENNEDY ..................................... Page Editor JERO!\IE A GART!'<ER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Page Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR ................................... Page Ed!tor MARVL\' L. KOHN ....................................... Page Edt tor DONALD E. SCHWARTZ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sports Editor ROBERT C'. SMITH .................................... Feature Editor BURTON GRUSKY ................................. Busl'n<>ss :\'!anager ROBERT B. GRINDLEY ................. , ....... Circulation Manager \ by Don Cre.gier Editors Note: TWs column is a serious attempt at something, :tJle concordiensis has not seen in a long time namely a conscientiou~ - endeavor to interpret and present events and current ideas as seen by the columnist. Therefore tllis newspaper does not necessarily hold or condone the views' expressed in this article or those. to fol' 1 w The thoughts aired h\erP bei!Yw are stric.tiy tho!!e of the authm·. J~a~much as this •column is sometlting different and new fo~· us; we would gl•eatly appreciate any and an comments ·from out• readers and will publish the same if so requested. --- \All that is human must retrograde if it does not advance,~; -Edward Gib!J.on This .column is going to be based on curre'!'t events Which I feel are of import to the college student, whether he .Js. aware .or not, They may be events which have occurred on the Umon c_ampus . or tho~e· having a wider scope. Regardless of what ~a.ch par~lCUlar co~umn u about. one or more of the following propositions will det,ermme .the stand it taltes: 1. No human institution is so perfect that it cannot be improved. JUNIOR BOARD .JOHN J. CASSIDY .. , ......................... Assistant Sports Editor JOSEPH HANDLER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Assistant Business Mana_ge~' LAWRENCE LEVINE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . Exchange Edt tor R. WILLIAM WINCHESTER . . . . . . . . . . Assistant Circulation Manager 2. No human being is either infallible or indispensable •. but each can be useful to .society in some respect if he only knoWs how. To, For Your Information ~:~~/~~~~lng and know that you know it are requisite to success WEJ)NESDAY, SEPT. 2 7-Lecture, 3. Democracy is the most generally _s:;ttisfactory fo~m of human -Photo by Harp FEATURE STAFF Peter Fyfe, Alfred Kingan, John Moses, Robert Murray, Monroe Silver- mann. REPORTERS Irwin Barg James Carmichael, Elwyn Harp, Herbert Hiller, Jerome IOeln, William Mohrmann, Martin Portnoy, David Smith, John Stebbins. BUSlNESS STAFF James De Sorbo, Fredrick Devan, Hyman Florence, Charles Little, Danl&l Sleael , CIRCULATION STAFF Robert Strand, Richard Young, Horace Va.n Voast, George Putnam, George Redington, David Steffanhagen. STAI!'F CANDIDATES Marco Clayton, Henry Goldstein,. William Gross, \Vlllla~ Graves, Wll· !lam Hall, Walter Hoffman, Charles Suter, Daniel \einer Harold ·weisberg. Rivalry Abotmds A phenomena that has not been noted at Union College in the past few years is now taking place on our campus. We. mean the rivalry that is occurring between strong freshman and sophomore classes, both of which are of the age and i~­ clination of similar pre-war classes. The veteran • ~d ~Is serious approach to college has been a strong restrammg m- fluence since 1942. TURN BACK YOUR CLOCKS ONE HOUR SATURDAY NIGTH, SEPTEMBER 23. SUN- DAY SERVICES IN THE CHAPEL WILL BE HELD ON STANDARD TIME AND ALL CLASSES ON MONDAY ·WILL MEET ON STANDARD TIME. The faculty, students and college organi2;atlon are reminded that before ooheduling meeting.s ilt. any college building. they must obtain permission from the office of the college recorder, Miss Traviis, Room No. 1, Administra- tive Building, where the master college calendar is maintained. In the event of a conflict, the organization clearing through the office will retain permission to use the room or building. ~ ~ If. SATURDAY, SEPT. 2S - Union College Christian Assn. Fresh- man dance with. Russell' Sage College, gym 8:30 to 12 mid- night. SUNDAY, SEPT. 24-Sunday Serv- ice, preacher, the Rev. C. Victor Brown, Chaplain, Union College, MC 11 a.m. standard time; Ellis Eospital .Nursing School Bacca- laureate, MC 8 p.m. MONDAY, SEPT. 2&--Daily assem- bly, Coach Hammerstrom and the football team, MC noon; Young: Republican club, BH 106. 7:30 p.m.; Philomathean and coaching: session, English read- ing room, BH, 7:30p.m. TUESDAY, SEPT. 26 -Daily as- sembly, speaker, the Rev. Fran- cis E. Ryan, Chaplain of the Newman club, MC noon. Cooperative AsSJemblies, MC 8 society though not always the mos.t e~f10_1ent or. creative. :rt. 'i::', of course, the exact antithesis of totahtanamsm, which requires neJ.ther ·p.m. speaker, Mr; Marr Starr, t' •t b t 1 bU ea;licracy Educational director of Interna- efficiency or crea !VI y, u. mere Y r · . tlonal Ladies Garment Workers 4. Totalitarianism is the worst enemy of every society which h,as Union, \How to Stop Strikes.\ not fallen prey to it, and those that have suGcumbed ar,e doomed to. • No charge. TWO POINTS decay and eventual extinction. We are acquainted today with .two· OREDIT. Christian Assn. meet- main kinds of totalitarianism, namely communism and fascism; the !ng, 2:30 p.m., Silliman hall former threatens us from without and· the latter from within. If :the. THU~SDAY, SEPT. 2s--Daily as-· need arises, the two can work very well in conjunction. · semb}y, speaker, Prof. .John B. 5. Politics is very much like a circle; the ·extreme· reactionary is· Henderson, exchange professor closer to the extreme radical than the former is to the conservative from St. Andrews' Univ., MC and the latter to the liberal. Both are nihilistic rather than construetive. noon; Fraternity night. 6. American education has never caught up with the rest of the FRIDAY, ,SEPT. 29-Daily assem- democratic society of which it is a part. This· is especially true, and bly, recital. Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, least excusable, in respect to the college, which usually operates under, Md noon; Ellis Hospital Nursing· at best, a benevolent despotism or, at worst, an oligarchical totalitarlazJ.~ School graduation, MC, 8 p!m.; ism. IRC, English reading room, BH, 7:30 p.m. 7. The potential dictator and his pals highly admire in their ~ :r. :f. victims the qualities of ·intolerance, stupidity, indifference, and lazi\ ness, No man whose personality .enjoys the· opposite of these qua]iUes THE STUDENT Employment ev:er voluntarily gave in to a communist or fascist, but unfortunately bureau has announce~l a change in hours for the first semester. It he is usually ih the minority. will be open daily from 12:30 until 8. Big oaks grow from little acorns. If we do not combat and. 1:15 p.m. for the assignment of unseat a local dictator, his influence will flour.ish. and spread. jobs and consultation in connection 9. The creative personality respects tradition, not as an end, but with employment. On Saturday a means, Anyone who idolizes tradition Is mentally bankrupt; the in· the bureau will be open all morn- telligent person uses it as a tool to avoid the mistakes of the past. lng. Students may call 4-2636 any All primative societies worship and perpetuate the past. time between 8:30 a.w. and 4;30 10. A healthy respect for one's opponent and a correct understand- p.m. for odd job assignments. ing .of his. philosophy a!).d weapons are essential if one is to be. a At present, the bureau Is inter- winner. Anybody who refuses to hear or read the writings of a corn- ~sted in securing 22 ushers for the munist, for example, has put one foot in a concentration camp. l\[o h.ome football games, and a large p~rson mentally ·or morally sound will fall for totalitarian propaganda,; group of men to work on the Gen- those people who do are no loss to the cause of democracy. eral Electric Lighting FUTUR- · AMA to be held in the College gym- Lastly, this column is not intended to be read by people like Ute nasium October l5- 2 0. student who recently confused Owen Lattimore with David Lilienthal, Odd jobs at 6();.75 cents per hour They wouldn't know what I was talk.ing about. are available daily. Applications Less gravy and more meat next week. Goodbye, now. for permanent part-time jobs are accepted from local employers and assigned from a waiting list. ·such To those of us who have been living under this lack of· the pre-war collegiate spirit for the past three years, the preselit antics of the two classes has been somewhat less than funny. The man-handling that has been going on on both sides, the false alarms, the use of fire hoses, the con-. siderable damage to doors in the temporary dorms, and the indiscriminative painting of the flag pole and the library lamps all add up to a rivalry program that is not building class spirit but rather class enmity and at a cost to the en- tire student body not only in frayed tempers but also in dollars and cents. 1 ..._ ____________ ..., jobs are not postecl r~~;L~~~-::~:~--1 i AT MODERATE PRICES • L. G. BAIIDUR CG. BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS ki . , t' t l . th I.F.C. RUSHING RULES What appears lac ng IS orgamza 10n, no on Y m . e 1. There sha.1l be a formal. frosh class but also among the sophomores. In tae first rushing. period of 41 days, end- place, it seems that disciplining expeditions should be made ing at noon, Oct. 25, 1950. only under the leadership of the Sophomore Discipline Com- 2. No new student may be · • • T h ld b 11 offered a bid, either written or mittee with definite mms m VIeW. he men s ou ewe oral, before noon, oct. 25. 1950. instructed as to the ban on disti·uction of property and the s. \There shall be a peri_od ot use of violence. To the freshmen is should be pointed out sllence :from noon, oct. 25, 19!i0 that a certain amount of docility might save a lot of pain untn 6:30 p.m. on Oct. 27, l91i0 and a sense of humor would be even more appropriate. Per- during which. time there shall be no communication of any haps the best thing would be to stay out of the way of raid- kind between new studentu a.nd ing parties by use of a warning system for the dorms. fraternity men or alunmi of We included on this page a pieture of one phase of the fraternities. ~ hazing program. It shows a variety of facial expressions . . 4. Between noon, oct. 25 • l9!i0 af \- f d d h l'b l and :Q.oon, Oct. 26, 1950, all fra.- ~er some rosh were roun e up to clean t e I rary amps ternitles may deliver bids to and sing a few college songs. We feel that this type of thing, prospective pledges. All bid with menial tasks, singing and various restrictive regulations forms sbaJ1. ~ provided by the is. much superior to property distruction for which the stu- LF.<J. and shall be of uniforn~ dent council will have to pay. ap~:;hees sball appoor at By the way, where is the student council committee the house of their choice at 6:00 which is supposed to be supervising this rivalry? p;m. on oct. :n, 1950. 6. These rushing ruies termi- The Library Again! Once more that round building in the center of our fair campus is the center of a great deal of controversy. Twice this week we have received memorandums about library hours. It would seem that there is some life left in that structure even though the hours it is now open would hardly be .an indication. There is a ray of hope left however in that the staff of that institution placed at the end of their notices the stipu- lation that the announced hours would be changed if student demand warranted. Here is seems is an out. nate at 6:80 p.m,. on Oct. 27, 1950. 7. No fratemity sba.ll make any agreements with any new student regarding pledging ex:· . cept in aceor&uice with these rushing lilles. 8. Any student other than a new student :inay be contacted and pledged mthout regard to the above restrictions. · 9. The J.F.(J. Is to sit as a committee oi the whole to judge any lnfractl.ons with a 2/S vote (omitting the aceused and ac- cuser) of members present a.nd . set the penalties, yve pro:pose to find out what the students thing about the library, Its p1·esent hours and what hours would seem to be the best. We might even be doing the library a favor. This. paper will circularize as much of the student body as possible next week and present the results in our next issue. 10. renal ties for' Infractions ot the rushing rules shall be . as follows, the I.F.C. to deelde the .. penalty to be Imposed aooord.- ing to the serlousneBS of the In· :fraction: Central Registration Closes Sept. 26 In order that all eligible .Amer-<S•>--------;r------ Jcans exercise their voting fran- chise each voter must first register Jn. his county. Central registration closes Sept. 26, Students who are planning to be !l.way from home during the period of personal reg- istration must register now before *he deadline. VETEBANS' Absentee registra- tion may take place on Sept. 22-23, within the state and from J'une 1 to Oct. 28 outside tM state. Per- sonal registration will take place as follows: New York dity and Westchester County, Oct. 9:-18, be- tween the hours of 5 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., and from 7 a.m. to 1,0:30 p.m. on Oct. 14. In cities and villages of 5,000 or more inhaJ>. itants (not in above) from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Oct, 6, 7, 13, and from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m: on Oct. 14. Non-Personal registration will . take place as follows: outside citle!l and villages of 5,000 or more in- habitants it will be from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Oct. 7 and from 1 p:m. to 10 p.m. on Oct. 14. Register and vote in the general elections wlllch wm be held on Nov. 7. (a) Suspension from the LF.<J. for a period of at least six calendAr months and not .to eiceed 18 calendar months. (b} Social probation for a periOd of a.t least tbree calen- dar months a.nd not to exceed 12 calenda.r. months. (c) Or a oombin:atlon of Ulese. Dissolution ot aJ1. pledging agreement!!l in 'Violation o1 the rnsldng rules shan IH:l part of each of the above penalties. Lega.cies are included in these. . There will be no rushing par-; ties on .Satu.rda;y, Sept. so,. to . 1acllltate the. Slddmore ex· change. Flying Club Meets There will be a meeting of the Union College Flying Club Tues- * day, Sept. 26, at 7:30 p.m. in the Civil Engineering building, room St. Regis Cleaners Union men who are interested in !lying. A new program will be set up for the year. This group now 3 Blocks from Campus JEWE.LRY , LEATHER GI::F:rS STATIONERY - l'BOGBAMS: · CLUB PINS - :KEYS MEDALS • TROPiiiES Write 01 call CARL SORENSEN SO Murray Ave, Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TBOY-ADAlll$ 8-2618 304. This meeting is open to all 604 UNION ST. 2 _ 180 I j' owns a training plane which it uses • ~n. practice flights. Fr~~-~- ~-~·~·~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~.,~-~-~-~-~ _ .... _.,._ ... _· _______ ... _._• '-\-\\'~·-·~--· '• ....... LANGE & RAPP Pltcrr~acy Complete selection of carCis For Mofh,er 1 s Day Cor. NOTT TERRACE end STATE STREET Bring this AD with you & save I 0°/ 0 on SWEATERS - JACKETS Navy and Army Style Shoes Sport Sh'irts CAMPING EQUIPMENT HUNTING EQUIPMENT BI·M·oR 232 StQte Street For Car Troubles See a Union Man • William H. Plath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 19JJ · ~\\\\1 &SO\\\ . {)\\\\\)j JAVST.JIW(UJS II 166 JQy Street GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACI}LTY Patton & Hall X-n&Y Frrl'ING Ull Slate St.-Since 189r1 GAZETTE DESK LAMPS Adiustable Incandescent and Fluorescent • SAVE SUPPLY CO. 501 St.,te St. . PHONE 6-4193 . .__..., . .. • •+ Serving Union's Men For Yea•rs See your agent on· Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 State St. near Ferry PRESS Printers ; . i ( \( .fliDA.Y :-l In the ·Concordy Don Si1n pa~ticula: ski. Simn So is G~1 It was :is. if one fore Juiu the first camp~ preponde grey ~n acces8Pri• ail ll~e an~ the that th~ .plete f01 college. It seen to mitke, the norn tlte futu: draft car in their , activity 1 th.e mail for his c that doul Actuali hasll't a. a.bout fo: haven fr life. A m.ore of b~ore, ·~ o' being cal ·own a < lege life _ nollod3\ • college x of collill froth the . talk of: • chem lal . .. during Jl The lu · the. COllE diminish The pr1 .peacetim college a affect co: interest .athletics. Union sidation who a1-e somewlw today is the mOSi Ufe for than a g continue sports f• (C• 51 fo: 104

60 ose· i~ •. To. of h,as to. the :the is· the but .a :r-To the .. UM c rz~} \C\ 50-:> I . FRIDAY. E~ 22. 1950 Tossin' Around. Gridder\' Weakened By 38 Losses Hammerstrom Rebuilding~ Oh for the Likes of Them! Harriers Look To Improve A Gift to Buy? you'll find it at ... .tr..: EVERYTHING IN ~ SLACKS & PANTS ...: for JOE COLL~GE :-, 1000 :t:>aas to Pi¢k .From a..,: ROCHESTER -~ PANTS STORE lilrlr.: (New LOcation) . • 11 Lettermen R·eturn FRESHMEN!· Leave your-clothe~ at WGY ; LAUNDRY 4-DA Y SHIRT SPECIALISTS lCA·SH & CARRYJ · Only 3 Blocks From Campus 520 UNION STREET WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS _ For WATCHES and JEWELRY · Repairing and Engraving Pens anci\the Finest'·Gtfts Cor11er Stafe CIQd Center Sn. ~ , I '15 BROADW .. AY ?e. tween State and Sm1th 'I: I' I' I' 41' ~-r:a. ...-.lliilil;r;;;;!;~lliiillilii;;;j .... ~~lllliillili ....... _ _. ••. because it brings you the news tile way you want it-complete, accurate, unbiased, interesting- every day ! The T.imes has more correspondents covering the news centers of the world than any other publication-to make -sure you· get the essential facts you need about what;s liappen.ing . You ~eta daily book review, too, in The Times-reviews of new plays, movies, and other ente:rtainment ~complete sports pages including Arthur Daley's colorful \Sports QJ The Times\-·and important 'news of business :fo1' .:future important businessmen. You'll find it a:ll good for your mind, good :for your marks, and .easily• tll.e biggest news ~ value for the money. So let's have a loud locomoti've, a~ you teady? Welcome, Freshmen! Phil ENGLEBARDT'S Liquor Store 519 UNION ST. - Ph. 3-3110 A full supply of LIQUORS & WINES T-h-e N-e-w Y·o-r-.k T·i·m-e·-s '\ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO ~RINl\ Now a cheer for your New York Times representative, whom you should.see today to arrange· for regular delivery of The Tiines to you: JOHNNY EDM·ONDSON PETE STRONG S.igma Phi Place

' \ FRIDAY~ SEPTEMBER 2~1 '19.50 4 • Seat Blocks Shaping Future Greats at Frosh Camp MASTER SCHEDULE WRUC \ Tuesdil.y WednesdaY Thm•sday FridaY ~ . Sunday Announced • The rotation system for the di~r tribution of football ticltets to the student body which was devised and adopted in the spring of 1948 by the Committee on Undergradu- ate Activities is again in effect., The following listing will deter- mine what category .each student is in. When: obtaining tickets stu- dents should ask .for them in the proper block of seats. 1. Jl'rosh Section 13. Delta Chl 14. Phi Delta Theta 2. Band 3. Ushers 15. Kappa Slgma 4. Theta Delta 16. Beta. Eta Upsilon Chi 5. Delta. Upsllon 17. Sigma Phi 6. Chl Psl 7. Psi Upsilon s. Sigma Chi 9. Kappa Alpha 1(). Phi Sigma Kappa 11. Phi Sjgma Delta 12. Beta Theta Pl 18. Phi Gamma. Delta 19. Alpha Delta. Phi 20. Kappa Nu 21. Delta Phi 22. Dorms and otherS. RESERVATIONS will be until 6 p.m. Wet1nesday ,prior to each game. The cheel'ing section pf 200 ,seats is reserved for Freshmen on:ly. Band members must get tickets in the band section only. Students who plan to serve as ushers, for which service they will be paid, must get specific seats , from the athletic office. All tickets for students will be issued from the athletic depart- ment office in the gymnasium and are for reserved seats. They can be procurred for the personal use of the students only upon presenta- tion of their student athletic ticket. These tickets are not transferable and violation of the rule will re- sult in their forfeiture. Guest tickets are p'\-iced at $2.00 each, tax includeil Grant Jobs Available An increased number of openings will be made available this term in the Grant.!n-Aid program. These are available to students of all terms. Men interested in obtain- ing additional information are asked to report to the Dean's office. WHERE TO EAT A TIP TO THE FR.OSHl the JAMES RESTAURANT Good Food at Reasonable Prices Booth Service 426 State Street ---------~~~--·--~ No Finer Place to Eat 1 j Try Us On Sunday Or On Your Next Date VENDDOME RESTAURANT 414 STATE ~TREET I -·---·--------·----_j Breakfast Special HAM & EGG 25c HOME 1\IADE MUFFINS 5c each aj; the HOME FOOD CAFETERIA 41 I State Street DOWNSTAIRS (next to Wallcc~'s) OPEN 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 P.M. 1 ................ . NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR • .light Outside Green Gate WINES - LI9UORS and BIER Evenin'g Mondiiy :sandtime '\ :Sandtime :Sand time Bandtime Jazz 11 :01) Bandt:ime Navy Show Jazz Navy Show Jazz Garnet 7:15 7;80 Garnet. ~ Garnet Garnet Garnet 7:45 Club Club Club Club Club Hit ·sunday 8:00 Medical Club Showtin;J.e : Gay 8:15 Maniac 650 \ Paree Parade Symphony Philo. ReqU!lSt \ 8:80 Request Request Request i ' E:!how \ 8:45 ,Show Show ShOW Debate .sunday !f:OO .-- News News News News News 9:15 Concert Concert Concert Concert Concert Symphony \ 9:80 Hall Hall Hall Hall ]{all -· \ .. \ 9:45 \ \ \ \ \ -sunday 10:00 \ - \ \ ' 10:15 \ , \ \ \ Symphony 1o\:so , \ \ \ .. '\ u \ \ \ ... Jl \ \ 10:45 Dream time Dream time Dream time Dream time Dream time 11:00 Last minute changes appear in a daily supplementary schedule. .Tossin' Around . .~Continued from Page 3) ment and .. for the thrill of competi- tion. But each year here may be our 'last for some time and it is pretty important to ·get as much out of that year, considered sepa- • 11ately, as is pvssible, • I personally don't agree with the · Intl'amuml Notices All entries for intramura.l touch. football are to be in Art , Lawrence's llffice in the gym not later than Tuesday noon, , September 26. Indllpen:dent teams must fw·nish a roster in- cluding manager's name and telephone nuinber. A tennis tournament is also scheduled · fo1; the ne·ar future. All entlies · must be in by Wednesday noon to Lawrence's office. Each team match will l'Onsist of two :Dancing Lessons A new series of classes is being planned this year in cooperation with the Arthur Murray Dance Studios. The course, to 'be 'given, , in a series of ten leSflOUs• needs· a _ ~inimum of twenty-six students to · begin , instruction. The classes, . under the direction of Mr. and Mrs.~ . Rodell, require a fee of fifteen dol- lars, payable in advance. Those students interested should repO.rt to the student activities office. There will be no girls present gt these classes. . flag wavers who say we owe it to tne boys fighting and dying in Korea to have a serious attitude in college. I don't think they give ·a damn about what we do, if they know, because they're pretty much occupied with saving their own skins. I do believe we owe it to ourselves to keep in mind our own status in the world and be aware about what's happening around us. singles and one doubles and :no . ,.--------------....-----. man will be permitted to double , up. lildependent's must fm•nish l'Osters with .manage1•'s name : .. -Photo by Harp Here are more pictures of some of the athletic programs that w~re run at freshman camp. Softball, basketball, volleyball, swim- mmg and water polo were some of the sports vigorously pu1•sued by the campers. and phone number. Parents-Alumni-Subscribe Now! The Concordiensis is offering a special subscription rate of $2.80 a year to those who act soon. Send your name and mailing address- To Conc;ordiensis, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Mountebanks Set Meeting All freshmen who are inter- ested in any phase of the thea,. ter are invited to Hanna Hall on Monday,, Sept. 25 a.t 7 :8~ p.m. ' for the orga.nizatioiM!l meeting of the Mounj;ebanks. The thea- , ter, shop and cltessing rooms', will be open for inspootion after · the meeting'. WILLIAM S. VROOMAN '51 BEFORE YOU SMOKE THEM ••• you can tell Chesterfields will smoke milder. AFTER YOU SMOKE THEM ••• you have no unpleasant after-taste. . . WHILE YOU SMO[(E '[HEM you get rnore pleasure than any other cigarette ca~ give you- that's why millions of smokers say: THEY SATISFY. UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVAN.IA I . I· t ·.; . \: Ar~ Snow t~ey M1 ~e flak hp.l:f ml nearby encoura1 the ·base A sur' versity dents wl pect to· those wi make. 'J pect to those wi ~ect onlJ out in t:b more tin ball gam classes. ing and Fresh me also go I fort was ·Sample Two l j'essed t $100,000 i the Sout pall(V .in home as quarters m9.tic Cl tl'anfporJ via their 1\ccord New Yc partmenl validity held in other ci' Accordin question school b1 an electi1 separate tical ofi tady's cc cent Sm barrier .board p1 election chine. An eer ei'red the j!da, the lTnitedS ~ut over as the B a result spread ~ berta.. e.n ada, an~ tions. T last unti day. AT THJ! J;'roctor's - techni~ Gmble State: 1 Neal, 1 Girls V \The ( James Elie: \S Audie and Bt \Spy l and H4 IF( Pr(] At til Council Tuesday proved t' elected Ji tary tor has tran JACK tax: com the frat guarante ,Tax Corn pre prom chairmar explainei necessar' o~ the .; vance. T not adv! fraternit Tax·Cozr Souhar year's b siderabl~ prom e~ confidenl a flnanc' that altl what or, tp play 1 band an< WILLJ that the of Inter be held latter p! act as t ference already Odd coi' sen ted. elected Greve.

se st . ~,: Around Town Snow was reported in Sch.enec- .tiJ.4Y Monday moming. Although the flakes fell for only ()ne a;nd a · b!llf minutes, reports from, the ' nearby Adirondacks were not too encouraging. But it can't .sno,w, Founded at Vnion College in 1877 the ·baseball season isn't over yet. Vol •. 78, No. 2 SCHENECtADY. N.Y., SE~TEMBER 29, 1950 PRICE 10 CENTS :(. l{o * A survey made at Cornell- Uni\ varsity r.eveals that college stu- dents who get the best marks ex- peat to make more money than tho-se with lower· gra~tes ex:pect to make. Those With A avevages ex- pect to earn $4150 a year, while those with C averages and less ex- :pect only $2900. It was also brought out in the study that Juniors :spend . Library Poll Results · 1. Would you use the Library -if it were open in addition to the present hours, on YES NO a. Weekdays after 9:30 p.m. 427 177 b. Sundays between 2:00 and 5:30 p.m. .282 294 !Percentage YES 71 49 Rebuilt Dutchmen Face ·Powerful Larry Eleven ~ mo1·e time at the movies and foot- ball games than members of otlier classes. Seniors do the least study- ing and go home mo-st ·often; Freshmen study a great deal and also go home often. (Note: no ef- fort was made to insure that the ·Sample was truly vepresentatlve.) c. Saturdays from 12 noon t{) 5:30 p.m. YES NO %YES 225 329 41 2. Did you use the Library last year during the hours in No. 1? (Freshmen and transfer students need not answer.) Often: 203 Occassionally: 167 3. Are you satisfied with the hours now in effect? 191 . . 381 33 Managers Elect Head 4. Do you pa:r:ticipate in sports, 'WOrk, student activ-ities, labs or Two young women have eon• other activities which prohibit afternoon study at the Library? The Board of Managers, the j'essed to having stolen a.t Jea.st 45 0 154 75 . group in charge of the various stu- :;. l{o l{o $100,000 in the last two yeru:s- :fro11n 5. Comments: Libt·ary service ... ba:lcony study cubicles ... etc. dent activities, held their first the Southern Bell Telephone Com- 224 students added comments, with 110 of these asking for the . meeting on September 22. The pur-. palli.Y .in Miami. The girls took return of the tables and chairs in the cubicles. pose of this session was to nomin- home as much as $150 a da.y in ·ate and elect officers and to plan q:uarters while worldng on aubo- . L L • b H for the coming term. m9.tic COWltiilg machines. They . on-g . ., rary . -ou-' f: S- GePald Shapiro was elected presi- tJ•anfported the filthy lucre home II _ dent while the .office of secretary via their, ahem, brassieres. went to Wolfgang Reimer. Both :(. :;. 1(. A ll d l u· d men were elected by a unanimous According to the attorney for the . ege . y nso un vote. New York State Education De- The Board of Managers is also partment, Charles A. Brind, the H J L W bb U · C II l'b · h represented on the student coun- validity of the referendum to be· e me,r · · · e ' ' m~n ° · ege 1 ranan, as m~nounced cil by three men. These vacated held in Schenectady and several that the Irbr~ry hours will be extended somewhat during places were delegated to Wolfgang other cities on Nov. 7 is illegal. Pl:e-exam penods, but that present budgetary requirements Reimer, David Platt, and Walter According to Brind, voting on the Will not allow any other lengthening. of the time that the Stroup. question of electing or appofn·ting library will be open. This announcement was made irntnedi- On the evenings agenda were school boards must be handl~d in ate]· aft th C d' · d bl' · various propc;,als of Wilford Ketz, an election with a vo·ting procedure y er e oncot lenSlS rna e pu IC the figures re- student Activities Coordinator. Mr. separate from that used for :poli- ceived from its special poll of the student body conducted Ketz requested that the group tical offices. However, Schenec- Tuesday. ma:lre a survey .of the freshman tady's corporation council, J. Vin- THE POLL revealed that de-~-~------------ class during the next four weeks cent Smith, said he sees no legal finite majority of 71 per cent of ~o that the different student acti- barrier to combining the school the student body questioned were FJ•Ve Go· ·TO vities would be aided in their ef- .board· proposition with the regular very much in favor of extending fort to secure competent personnel. By Don Schwartz Defending a thirteen game defeatless ~kein which stretches over two season, the revamped rebuilt Union Coli~ge football team will open its season tom'orrow afternoon agamst one of the toughest teams on their schedule St. Lawrence U~iversity. The game will begin at 2:00 P.M. on Alexander Field. ---------------® THIS CONTEST will mark the SAMUEL C. H~ER..\lTROM debut of Samuel C. Hammerstrom as head coach of football at his Alma Mater where he led the Gar· ·net to an undefeated season in 1939, the last previous unbeaten year before John J. McLaughry's eleven last season. Hammerstrom captained the club and was named little All-American fullback. Even more to the interests of · grid fans, this opener will prove to be the best possible test for the 1950 Dutchmen. After winning 14 games, losing one and tieing· one over the past two seasons, Union has lost 38 men from last year's team. Of these, 26 were lettermen and were, by and large, the bulk of Union's grid shength, GONE from the starting offen- sive lineup are end Buzzy Busino; tackles Pepper .Martin and Frank Grabski; guards Brud Shaffer and George Zeliff; and the entire back- field of Dave Strauss, Dick Speidel Charlie Lewis and Hal Lundstrom: Missing from the starting defen- sive team are ends Ed Layden and election 9n the same voting ma- library hours after 9;30 p.m. week- s Another suggestion was the com- chine. · days and that a sizable majority · t. An,drews pilation and subsequent printing llo llo :r. were dissatisfied with the hours. of a new folder describing the Th\' • An eerie pall of smoke has {lOV• now in effect. . F many activities on campus for use . . esp.tans ered the southern '\'rtion of \'an- ive sons of Minerva are aug- yu ..., An th · bl · 't 75 t' th · d t' by the freshmen as a hand-book. . Bob Dryoff; tackle Pete DelSanto; guard Jack Weiss; and halfba{lks Al Wade and George Best. The loss of these stars makes a two-platoon system impossible this year. In addition to these men, such capable reserves as end John DeBello; tackles Joh-n Dvorscak and Burt Nappear; guards Win Paige and Harry Petrak; backs George Morrow, Charley Snow and ~ . d\ the. easter·n porti'On of the · o er .s1za e maJOl'l y, per men mg e1r e uca 1ons by pur- ..., t 1 d' t d th t th - t d' This folder would also be utilized l!nited States a-nd has even drifted cen , n 1ca e ·a ey were en- sumg s u 1es at St . .Andrews Uni- A QUt over the Atlantic Ocean as far gaged in some work or sport or versity for the school year 1950-51. by the admissions office. · nnounce as the British Isles. The smO'ke is activity which prohibited afternoon Ronald Q. Jennet, Delta Phi, and During the course of the meeting · ·· · a result of some 125 forest :fires sttJ.dY in the library. However, less Fred S. Kantor, P.hi Sigma Delta, many other phases of the board's spread over the' provinces of AI- than 50 PE:lr cent of the students are the official .exchange students work were discussed. Plans were Fall play. . berta. ~nd British Columbia, 'Can- were interested in having the li- while Arthur H. Rosenfeld, How- made for a series of reports to be ada, and U!llllsual climatic conlli- brary open Sunday or Satur<tay- ard R. Brody, and Foster P. made u:p and submitted by the stu- tions. The smoke is expected fu afternoons. Doane 3rd -comprise the remainder dents in charge of activities. This last until Saturday, perhaps Mon- MR. WEBB stated that he is not of the delegation. will make the job of keeping check day. convinced that longer hours are JENNET, a graduate of Platts- on theseactivities much easier and (Continued on Page 4) ' :(. :(. l{o AT THE THEATERS really necessary. \If I col)ld trust' burg High School and Kantor from more efficient. the student .body I would keep the Brooklyn Tech have both been on The Board of Managers will next . library open to all hours, even to the Dean's List every term since meet on October 9 at the rath- ~roc~r's: \My Blue Heaven,\ a employing the Princeton method of matriculating at Union. skeller and from then on every teclmicolor muilical with Betty allowing students to remain in the Rq,senfeld, Brody, and Doane, other week for the remainder of Gmble and Dan Dailey. library to three' in the morning, (Continued on Page 6) the terrn. State: Eleanor Parker, Patricia but having the doors locked to the ~---------=----,----------------­ Nea}, and Ruth Roman, \TllrEffi outside at midnight,\ Mr. Webb • Girls With Secrets.\ Also pla-ying,. noted. \The Golden Gloves S«n·y\ with Our Library? James Dunn. Adjustments will be ma,de, how- Erie: \Sierra\ in tecbnicolor with ever, according to Mr. Webb, for It seems that we have reached another impasse in the Audie Murphy, Wanda Hendrix, a :J;Jeriod before exams. This, he· matter of the Union College Library and its head, Helmer and Burl Ives~ The co-feature! is noted, was planned earlier in the· \Spy HWlt'' with Marta Toren year. He felt that he might be L. Webb, Ph.B., M.A. However, all hope does not seem lost. and Howard Duff. willing to open the library to 10:30 The student body has gone on record a$ quite definitely if demand warrants It and if bud- favoring the extension of the library hours on week days. getary arrangements could ·be 1 d ta d IFC P made. The library is now on the Both the library and the co lege,. we un ers n , are . . asses prewar set up as to hours and being run not just fer the purpose of making money but - especially as to the staff. The staff also to give students some semblance of an education. Pr. Om . , Bu.dget_ . was cut by one and a half per- Perhaps the student body is asking for too much when it ---·01--- _ . _ _ sons, and the hours were cut from. desires to u'se the library. 92 hours per week to 75. THE LIBRARIAN said that two We have gone to a bit of trouble to find out how the At the first Inter-Fraternity t d t b d t 11 f l th' t' f h Th Council meeting of the term last· main reasons for t•efusing · a hike s u en · o Y ac ua Y ee s on · IS ques IOn o ours. · e Tuesday night, the council ap- in hours are (1) the lack of pro- results of our efforts are indicated in the above story'. proved the Fall Prom budget and fessional help and (2) lack of If the library lengthened its hours to 11 p.m., the cost, elected J!, RQger Fenwick as secre- money to pay student assistants. according to our calculations, wo.uld in. the course of a year He also noted that competent stu- · · tary to replace Joseph Schultz wl::w dent help was difficult to find. The amount to less than $150 for the salary of a student assistant has transferred to another school. · · d h k JACK FISCHEL, head of the major effect in keeping the library to remain lil the library seven an a half ours a wee , over tax committee, pointed out that open to 11 p.m. would be to cut and above the present time. It would also mean that the the fraternities would have to overnight circulation by 60 per three librarians would have to spenfl on the average of two guarantee the $800 advanced by the cent, he concluded. h k ] d t \f l\f ·nr bb ' ' h h The poll contacted 604 Union ours a wee onger on u y, 1 r, ~~ e · ms1sts, as e as .Tax Committee to the IFC to meet • th t th t h ']l t 1 h' b 'ld' 1 preprom. expenses. George Souhan, students during Tuesday's Chapel Ill e pas , a e Wl no ceep IS Ul mg open un ess a chairman of the prom committee, program. professional reference librarian is on duty. explained to the council that ft is --~o--- This extra work is too much 'of a burden on an already necessary for the IFC to pay half D I h. w··· Off overworked library staff which has been cut 57 man hours o~ the orchestra expenses in .ad\ e p ICS . I -. er each week, not to mention the reduction of the stud.ent staff, vance. The Tax Com~ittee would F h T • according to Mr. Webb. not advance this sum unless the ros utoring fl·aternities. would guarantee the ' . . The librarian must be given credit, however that in Tax Committee from taking a los~. The Delphic Society announced the period of the last war and after that the lib~ary here Souhan also explained that this this week that it will sponsor a w.as on the top o. f th. e Iistin.g of libraries open the longest. year's budget of $1600 was con- Freshman tutoring system thi.s cc th d t th 1 b b d 1 siderably lower than last year's year at no cost to those enrolled. \'mce e re uc Ion m e 1 rary · U get Co gate and even prpm expenses and that be felt The college administration has Skidmore are .among· the twenty or so colleges who main- confident that the pl'om would be given its backing to the program. tain library hours longer than Union. The increase that the a financial success. Souhan stated THE SYSTEM will employ up- student body has asked for is only seven and a half hours that although he could not reveal .perclassmen as tutors who will each k h' · h Id b · th t t 1 h t what orchestra had been selected help any freshman in any class · . wee w IC wou · rmg e 0 a ours 0 83 Y2 hours tp play for the prom \it is a name wbject that he .feeis weak in. The a week. band and .a, good one\ tutors will not only review the The problem seems simple enough on the surface but WILLIAM GREVE announced· previous week's class work, but there ar~ many factors which must be considered The tha.t the Northeastern Conference will also assist the Freshmen in tt d f' 't 1 d f th t d ' of Inter-Fraternity Council w.ould solving specific homework. prob- ma .er e llll, e y n~e S Ul' er S U Y not only by the li- be held at Union sometime In the !ems. Wherever possible, the Del- b.ranan and his advisory groups but also by the administra- latter part of October. Greve will phic's will employ students who bon. aat as the chairman of the con·. have had student teaching expert- What good is a library if it is not accessible to a goon ference and in this capacitY' has ence. part .of the student body.. The lib:ta'Mr .is J\ust as important already begun to contact the 20- Registration for thesr frPe tutor- t f tl II f • ., · Odd colieges that will be rl'pre- lng clasHr!'l ,d11 takf' phH'<> during a pal 0 . le co €g'C as Its acuity or Its gymnasium sented. William Winchester was the week of Oct. 1() in Silliman yVe inlelid lo keep urging theatlministnilioh to ~xtend elected by the council to assist .Hall. Th<> time will be announced the l.1~r~ry hour~ .to eleven .p.m. We feel that th~re is every Greve. in chapel every day of that week. poSSlhlhty that It can be done. The Mountebanks, Union College dramatic group, opened the 33rd year of opera.tion MCJonday night H E I p St d when at an organizational meeting • • • • u ents the club unanimously decided to N present Moss Hart's sophisticated umber Increases comedy, \Light Up The Sky\ as its fall production. THE UNION College program THE MOUNTEBANKS are al- got its start at Union in 1948. The ready hard at work on plans for first year of the plan, seven For- the coming year. The Executive eign students attended Union, the Council, in charge of planning, cCJon- next year 8, and this year 10. sists of President Robert A. Kela- While college enr()ollment has fant, Richard J. Sullican, Donald dropped, more HELP students Forsyth, Paul Woods. Daniel Sie- · have been attending. sel, David Savage, and Eugene Un- From the beginning, the program derwood. These readers were in- has been, and is under student in- troduced to freshmen and other itiative. The plan involves having prospective members at th first the college give a tl).ition scholar- Mountbanks meeting Monday night ship (and, if possible, remitting all at which about fifty members and other .fees) and some local group new~omers were present. supplymg room and board. Last The traditional freshman festival year a third category came into play will not be presented this year being with the Department of the P,ue to the jllne!l:§l· of the director, Army paying transportation, pocket ·Professor Donald S. Jones. His money, books, clothing, etc. for absence also hampers \Light Up carefully chosen students from the Sky,\ scheduled to play on No- Germany and Austria. vember 9-11 and 16-18. However, THE MAJORI'l'Y of students' the Executive Committee, acting in names are obtained from the In- his <;apacity,. has gotten things stitute of International Education under way, tryouts having been in New York City. It is this held on Wedn<'~day and Thursday. organization that is the clearing FiTlA 1 c'!sting- wi 11 be Monday at house for hringing foreign students 7:00 p.m. The Mountebanks intend :rvho wish to study in this country tu have a great deal accomplished 1n contact with those institutions by October 9, the date on which which offer opportunities for Jones hopes to return. study. THE M OV I E S, which the Professor Gordon Silber, faculty Mountebanks annually present in fl.dvisor of the group. stated that Old Chapel, will begin with \The a history of the HELP program Grapes of Wrath,\ Monday, Oct. 9. at Union College is going to be ThEl society is also hopeful of written this year by members of securing \The Snake Pit,\ \A Let- the student committee. ter to Three Wives,\ and some a--- Charlie Chaplain pictures for their weekly programs. The charge at all shows is 25c, with performances scheduled at 4:30. 7'00 and 9:00 p.m. every Mo·nday. Using a new procedure this year \Light Up the Sky\ will be pre- s.ented on two successive weekends· Nov. 9-11 which is the Prom week: end and also Nov. 16-18 which is the following weekend. Rehearsals have already begun. WEST COLLEGE TOUR P1·esident Davidson has an- nounced that alumni and par- ents of students are invited to make a toUJ' of inspection of West College after th.e Rl'.I. game on Oct. 7. RefrBsluuenLs, consisting of coffee and dough- nuts, will be se·ned. Hands Off R.P .I. Warns Tax Head Following a policy adopted last year, Union students, under pen- alty of dismissal from college, will be forbidden to partake in destruc- tive activities aimed at the RPI campus next week before Satur- day's amiual football battle~ ANY DA:MAGE done to the RPI campus will be paid for out of the Student Ta.X Fund, which reaches every student in the long run. If the culprits al'e caught, however, they will pay the entire cost of repairs themselves. · The tax committee and college . officials urge that over-enthusiastic .students save their excess energy for cheers on -the football field and spend· Friday evening at home. ·

i I ij ., ·' F-RIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1950 2 Meet Jorgen Halsteen My Word! by Don Cregier Outside of his accent and ideas on American life, Den- mark's Jorgen Halsteen could well pass for a typical big cit.Y lad instead of a H.E.L.P. student at Phi Sigma Delta. H~s . th' f u r have observed so much con· 142 pounds are evenly distributed on a 5'11\ frame and h1s. . Since returnm~ to coll~g\n;~le~~e regarding the military status Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distrl· butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na.. tiona! Ad vei'lising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub· !lshed every Friday of the s~hool year. Editorial Off!ce,Washburn Hall, Union College, Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, &34 State 'St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription lOc a copy ; $3 year dellvered any- where In the United States. 1 . h\ th t h 1 l 1 k fuswn and laclt o accura; e . g to devote this week's column to a g asses giVe Im a SC 0 ar 'Y oo . of college students ~ha.t I am ;t 01 ~ubject :My comments on the draft ONCE YOU GET talking with <® consideration of thiS mworta t . ~hidh have not always been him you are struck by his strange col)ntry again? \I can tQH you are not based on ne~spt~~~e:t~~~r S~rvice Acts of 1ll48 and 1950, of.,. ability to keep everyone in a gay' better at the end of the year,\ C?~rect, b.ut onf thh: hac u: before me as I write this column. I shall be mood. The first time I met Jorgen Jorgen said, \when I know just ftCial cop1es o w 10 ar 1 t t them ' w these laws to anyone who wan s o see . . . , was a.t a party at the Phi -Sig how well I like it here. But, per\ gla~r~h~ 950 draft law differs from its predecesso~ in only one im, house. When I entered· the room. haps.\ 1 1 clause authorizing the Pres1dent to order re-. SEN-IOR BOARD WOLFGANG J. RIEMER • • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . . . . . . ~ilig:: he was busily engaged in leading a · portant deta.! • nam~J'e ~ervlce Otherwise, the current law is merely song in Danish. The translation Outi•.-ng Club- Tri•p serve units mto act . · t'l J ly 1951 The section relating f h . h t II th d 11 ht f an extension of the earller one un 1 u -• · . . - o w -IC · e s e .sa P g o a d t b·ect to the draft is thus still m effect and. Will farmer who happened to leave his Interested students may sign up to college stu ?n so suuntJil the law expires or is altered. Quoted verbatim DON M. CREGIER . · · · · · · .. · .. · · · · · · · · · · .. · · .. · .. · · · · !ssoga;e Editor MARTIN SIEGEL .. · .. · · · .. · .... · ·· .. · .. · .. · .. · .. · .. · isso f e Editor JAY N. COHN ········ ................................ !', an'1ng Editor JOHN P. KENNEDY · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . age Editor JEROME A. GARTNER · · · · .. · · · · · · · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. · i:age Editor Wl .fe alone for a day th 0 t' c·l b bullet1'n board of course ·remam s h bil t' f · · on · e u mg u h 1 th's clause states that \Any student w o, w e sa ts ac- WILLARD G. TAYLOR · ................... · ·· · ·· · ...... · · page Ed't r MARVIN L. KOHN ... · · ··· · .. · · · ··· · · ··· ··· .. · ·· · · · · ·.... a~e F.:dlt~r DONALD E. SCHWARTZ ·· ...... · ··· ......... · ·· ...... · Spot/ Editor RuBERT C. SMITH .. ······· .. · .. ·· .... ·· .. · ...... · .. B ~eatu ~a~ager BURTON GRUSKY .. - ........................ · · · · · · us ness • ROBERT B. GRINDLEY . , ........ , .. , ........... Circulation Manager r managed to get Jorgen alone for the canoe trip to Lalte George !~~:f t :rs~~g a 1 full-time course of instruction at a college, ~iversity, for a few moments to ask him a leaving Saturday, Oct. 7. The trip ) ~I institution of learning, is ordered to report for mduction question or two. As could be ex- is In conjunction with the R.P.I., :~d~;n:~= title, sha-ll, upon the facts 'being presented to the local board, pected the talk got around to girls. Skidmore, Vassar, and Russell Sage have his induction under thi!j title postpone~ (A) until the end of such Jorgen thinks that American wo· ·Outing clubs. d. 1 r (B) until he ceases -satisfactorily to pqrsue such t t b 1 c d o STUDENTS will leave 1:30 Sat- aca em c year o , men expec o e p a e n a - course of iJtstr·uction, w· hichever is earlier. . •- - JUNIOR BOARD Assistant Sports Editor JOKN J. CASSIDY · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · '· '·' · ·· · · ~~lstant Business Manager JOSEPR H,A.NDLER · · · · · · · · ·· · · · '· · ·' ···' ! 1 tant Business Manager d t 1 and ad ! 'red wh'ch makes urday afternoon ·by car for Bolton. t 1 k pe es a m , 1 Contrary to a widespread but mis~alten assump 1on, one s c ass ran it difficult for men to treat them Landing. The trip to ·Turtle Is- does not affect his draft status durmg th_e c~rrent college .year, pro- as people -rather tha~ as females: land, where they will camp out, ... ided hi's marks are hl·_gh enough to perm 1 t htm to_ remain m .. 'college. ALAN K. RADACK .............. · ...... · . . ss s AMER C llt will be made by canoe. There will •· i t ti 1 1 t tf~~'iJJERt~~~ ................................ Exchange Editor R. WILLIAM WTNCHESTEJR .... , , .... Assistant Circulation Manager AND I AN men ta more The Selecti.\'e Service Bureau did issue -an admi.n s ra ve ru rn.g as th h d i D be square dancing on Saturday t h lf f - about sex an t ey o n en- August advising local boards to defer students m . he upper a o . marlt, according to Jorgen. \It's nif~i~rmation may be secured their classes if they happened to be drafted before co~l~ge opened, This impossible to join a conversation from Cusato at -Delta Phi, Jack ruling, which ~upplemented but did not alter the prov1srons ,?f the draft FEATURE STAFF Peter Fyte, Alfred Kingan, John Moses, Robert Murt·ay, Monroe Silver- mann. ·.without hearing about Skidmore,\ law, ceased to be effective as college students resumed a full-time d d Smith at 37 NSSC, or Arthur Rin- he ad e · cour&e of instruction.\ · REl'ORTERS Irwin Barg James Carmichael, Elwyn Harp, Herbert Hiller, .Ter~me Klein, William Mohrmann, Martin Portnoy, David Smith, John Stebbms. BUSINESS STAFF ;rames De Sorbo, Fredrl~k Devan, Hyman Florence, Charles Little, Dan1il SieBel • CIRCULATION STAFF There is also a serious side to aldi, 26 s_s_s_c_. _ 0 ___ FIVE CLASSES of college students are at the present time exempt this good-natured lad from Den- NOTICES from the draft. They are students under nineteen years of age, rnarlt. At his school in Heming, Photo Society Lecture armed forces veterans with over one year or ninety days of service, de· Jorgen was a member of the Board A lecture demonstration on \How pending on when they served; nationa:! ~~ardsmen an~ armed forces of Trustees which compares with to Develop Film\ will be given reservists, including ROTC cadets; dl\:rmty students, and students our student council and served as Tuesday, Oct. 3 at 7 : 30 p.m. ln the physically incapable of serving. Reservists a?d guardsmen, ~though editor of the school paper. He is Photographic Society darkroom lo- not subject to the draft, face the chance of bemg called. to. acti-ve duty majoring in chemistry at Union cated in the basement of Silliman at any time with possible deferment for no longer than a smgle college and intends to return to Denmark Hall. All amateur photographers term. · Robert Strand, Richard Young, Horace Van Voast, GeDrge Putnam, George. Redington, David Ste!!anhagen. STAFF CA.NDIDATES next year to study chemical eng!- are Invited to attend. 1 recently noted an article in the United States News and World : neering. lf. lf. lio Report which claimed that some draft boards have disregarded the AS FAR AS American life is Gra.d Exams provisions of the law regarding deferme~t of coll~ge stu.dents and Marco Clayton, Henry Goldstein: William Gross, W 1 i1fia~e~~~~e¥ra~\~ llam Hall, Walter Hoffman, Charles Suter, Dane Weisberg. concerned, Jorgen thinks it is fast Tests of the Graduate Record ordered their induction anyway. Such actiOn is obv1ously lllegal and and hectic compared with leisurely Examination, required of appli- should be protested to higher authorities if the student wishes to finish Da·nish existence. But \American cants for admission to a number his year. people are rather easy to get t() of graduate schools, will be given know,\ he says, \and they seem on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 27 Restraint very friendly.\ and 28; Feb. 2 and 3, May 4 and 5. Jorgen's father holds the posi- The Law School Admission Test, tion of chief of police of Herning will be given on Nov. 18; Feb. 24, and he has two younger sisters April 28; IT WAS MY original intention to discuss this week the infamous Communist Control Bill which, regrettably, is now law; .but I am postponing my remarks until I obtain a copy of the said act. More of the same difference a week from today. We must commend the Student Council Tax Committee for its attempts to notify the studen~ body how the college feels about the traditional raids wh1ch seem to have de- veloped between Union College and R.P.I. (S~e sto~y on page one.) A little more publicity a little earher rrught have been warranted. . both in their 'teens. The 18·year- Bulletins and applications for the old traveler will be glad to go back tests may be obtained from ll]duca- to see them after his year's study tiona! Testing Service, P.O. Box here. Will he come back to this 592, Px·inceton, N. J. The Book Shelf However that is not what appears to be. the mam ~rob­ lem. More immediately as a 1?-at~er of fact, 1s the P~P tally, bonfire and pajama parade which lS scheduled for tonight. Peter D. Fyfe wealthy family, is deeply religious, • f t\ · to- Not to be outdone by the con- (a Seventh Day Adventist), is bar- We would like to make a suggestiOn or ca.u lOll 1 :U struction of West College, the assed by the lecherous and hand- night's activities. In the past these pep ra}hes ~1ke their_ re- Union College Library also used some young heir, and as Mr. Sin- latives the R.P.L raids have developed mto 1rrespons1b!e the summer to good advantage; in clair obligingly insinuates in his escapades O f disturbance, confusion and damage. I_n thlS the purchase of new books, of sub-title, Virtue is still rewarded. t b th b t course, While most of the new THE BOOK has several rather -case the townspeople of Schenectady have 0 ear e run acquisitions can hardly be de- amusing incidents, but they all of the released energy of Union undergraduates. scribed as hot off the press, as seem to be in the first few chap- Last year and the year before a great deal of uproar befits a small college library, most ters, or at least this reader Was Caused and even S ome physical damage occurred. The of them were chosen with a view thought the reworklngs of the d t toward permanent worth, at least same situations rather less funny. net result was poor publicity in the local J?apers an. a grea within the human power to pre- There is a very obvious attempt body of irate citizenry which vented their ~nger m letters. diet. to be amusing, and since th€ book to this newspaper. Let us quote to you portiOns of one such WITH Tms in mind, it is most· was published in late May with a unfortunate that the book under blue and pinl:t jacket, it was no letter. review is the most trivial and the doubt meant for hammock read- September 30, 1949 Dear Sir, Tonight's demonstration by your MOB was the worst I have ever seen. It reminded me more of a ptison riot than any college . prank • . . with your poor children who have been cut from their mothers apron strings for the first time. I have an automobile, which to me represents as much work as do your pe1·sonal belongings to you. Last night those escaped •. , NITWITS both scratched and dented the fenders and doors of my car. They jumped on the bumpers and rocked the vehicle in the way only Union children can do ••• least likely of the lot to achieve ing. But unfortunately the humour lasting popularity. We spealt of never quite comes off, and one is \Another Pamela.\ a novel by Up- uncertain who is the butt of it. ton Sinclair, known to another gen- In sh.ort for those who wish to -eration chiefly for his hard-hitting read the best parody of Pamela or \Jungle\, and s om e may be any 1>f her possible lineal descen- tempted on this ground. But this dents, Fielding's \Joseph Andrews\ book was obviously knocked into is hear!ly recommended. shape following, or in between, the Other new books of interest in- more recent adventures of the elude Evelyn Waugh's \When the ubiquitous Lanny Budd, and some Going Was Good\ an account of the may also be detert·ed on this travels between 1929 and 1985 that ground. furnished t h e background f o r For Your Information SATURDAY, SEPT. 30 - Varsity football, Union vs. St. Lawrence, Alexander field, 2 p.m.; varsity soccer, Union vs. Amhevst; Union- Skidmore freshman pal'ty, in· eluding football game, tea at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Ketz, dinner in Hale House and dance at Hanna Hall. SUNDAY, OCT. 1-Sunday Service, Preacher, The Rev. John Oliver Nelson, Yale Divinity School, MC, 11 a.m. Broadcast over WGY; Organ Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, 4 p.m. (2 Points Credit.) MONDAY, OCT. 2- Dally Assem- bly, Mr. Ketz and the Cross Country Team, MC, noon; Insti- tute of Radio Engineers, EE22, 7:30 p.m.; Meeting of premedical Bring this AD with you & save 10°/ 0 on SWEATERS - JACKETS Navy and Army Style Shoes Sport Shirts CAMPING EQUIPMENT HUNTING EQUIPMENT BI·MOR 232 State Street and predental students' tall who expect tot apply to professional schools this year), Biology lab- oratory 205, 4:30 p.m. TUESDAY, OCT. 8 -Daily Assem- bly, spealter, Dr. Edward Caro- thers, MC, noon, pastor . First Methodist Church, \The Social Sterility of Educat«;!d Men\; Glee club rehearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; Lecture, auspices of .Christian Science Church, MC, 8 p.m., spealter, :Mr. Archibald Carey of Detroit, Mich., \Christian Science, How It Works\. Open to public without charge. WEDNESDAY, OC.T. 4 - Premedi- cal club, Biology, 205, 12:45 .p.m.; Chemistry club, Chern, Lecture room, 12:45 p.m.; Band rehearsal, (Continued on Page 6) GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITI'ING. m State st.-since 189ll The gentleman who wrote the above missive was quite bitter as can plainly be seen. This is no way to get along with our neighbors. Not only do we lose the respec~ of these people but we are apt to have to pay for these a.ctlons not only in i'epairs but also in friendliness and semce on the part of these townsmen from whom we have to buy and to whom we often must sell. The story, anyone familiar with many of his novels. Eliott Paul's the textbook definition of a novel \Sp-ringtime in Paris\ is, one hears, must hesitate in applying the term, a \must\ for those who have read concerns a young lady of unques- \The La.st Time I Saw Paris\ and tionable virtue during the nineteen- is also recommended for those who twenties, who has the peculiar for- have not read this earlier piece of -~;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tune to be named Pamela Andrews, nostalgfa. Owen Lattimore's \Pivot f - --· It would seem that a word to the wise would be sufficient in this situation, especially when it is more than possible that if the individual miscreants are caught that they, as in the case of the R.P.I. raids, will have not only to pay for the damage but also be subject to immediate dismissal from college. The responsibility to guide and curb the exurberance of. the freshmen tonight rests in the hands of upperclassmen as the traditional frosh rally takes place. The Sophomore Dis- cipline Committee and the Student Cotmcil must take the initiative in this situation which so sorely needs leadership. Delphics Tutor The Delphic Society should be given credit for starting a very worthwhile project in setting up its tutoring system. We hope that it will be very successful not only in drawing sufficient teaching personnel, but also that it will serve its purpose in really instructing and helping frosh. · THE STUDENT Activities program and freshmen sports will find the program quite helpful in keeping men eligible for participation. For this reason, in addition to the fact that the program is fl'ee to freshmen, the project d.eserves a great deal of commendation. It might be worthwhile for the faculty to keep in touch · witb the Delphics and suggest names of those frosh who .need the help the most. and as the tale develops, emerges · in Asia\ Ia perhaps a bit dated for as the twentieth century descen- some since it is a March publica- dant of Richardson's heroine In tion, but as a background to the character as well as in name. She present mess, deserves to be widely too is a1 naive servant girl in a read. Letters to the Editor • • Dear Sir: We believe that the library sh<Juld remain open till 11:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and Sunday till 10:30 for study purpOses. Stu- dents with afternoon labs need the whole evening-many find it neces· sary to . retreat to the library to study because of noise in tile dorms and fraternity houses. Outside reading courses with only a few books for the whole class require longer library hours for -the students. Many students work in the afternoon, etc. Sincerely yours, BROCK POWELL, BJt.AI)FORD CAlJVET, WILLIAM R. STOLL, JOSEPH R CONOBY, DONALD K MAFORTH, FRANK EDWARD YOUNG JR., al).d WILLIAM RICHARD HOLZAFPEL. Sept. 26, 1950 bear Editor; If the noble and revered directors of this fine institution would be so kind as to lend an ear, I would -like to touch on subject which at the moment I find most frustrating. I refer to the present hours of the Student Employment Service, Part Time department. These hours, na.inely-12:3D-1:00 on week da.ys and 9:00-12:00 on Saturdays-are not very accommodating to many -of the students at Union. To take my own case as an example (similar to many I am sure) fra~ernity rules demand that I attend the dinner table at the above mentioned weelt day hO]ll'S, and I am so unfortunate as to have classes at those hours appointed for Saturday. I admit that I am not totally f~J,m!llar with the sltuati()n because I can not get over to the Admissions Building at those hours to investi- gate. Therefore, if I am doing anyone a.n injusti<:e, I apolozize afore~· hand •. But, If the situation is as stated, I humbly request that some other hours be appointed, If! only for one day a week, so hhat we of the working class can obtain employment to keep body and aoul together. Respectfully yours, DAVQ) W. :PAUJER SAVE 10% •. -ON FOOD COSTS •• - •• SAVE 10% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 .,Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$!t50 for $5.00 WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMB.ER THE . JAY JEWELRY CO. 1-! EADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and EngravinCJ Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sts. .; .. -, ' . ~ ':) fRIDA T . (] Now walls ol in the' ALWA ·or cjgar1 your pro the Soph tee. It ' to carry por.taht security liquor J! phone· n Don't penses. have fig by a·nyOJ C~'!nts a brealtfas of coffe twenty c per ycu WID>L: of Soutl explain on the J, now inst ·been the dents ar other sic -right arr of the Rather 1 the emp: table wa Oh, y1 lines at service \fried\' ·l ally. Tll wait unt fore givi profs to Most of know. TIDS is anotll Once lege fr~ annual the pe~ nectad~ p.m., t gling u their b crates first, t pile w~ sent si: AT Al will rea: in the plete wi pile will a snake the fro; take ti-ll of the. a cheer-s. and pro . fire de1 scene. borhood line w11 fo1; Pay Scheriec It mil the in WSNY, Star, inJ nectady Orson '\ follo·w f about 1 after al -from a 4 • Qu' 11 4 Bl a·

950 con• us to a been of~ U be im\ r~ sfa,c- such such pro- last of This empt age, ... duty the and and who lab- ssem- Caro- First Glee p.m.; istian p.m., of public .p.m.; •' .. ' ', ~ ':) . ! FRIDA'(, SEPTEMBER 29, .1950 A·dvice: Offered . . To Neophytes By John Moses Now that you've :forged enough papers to ent€r \those walls old and hoary,\ we'd like to pass o.n to you something in the way Jof advice. ALWAYS KEEP enough m.oney €>----~--·-·---------­ ·or cjgare'ttes oii· hand to buy off on. Don't be too hasty about ac- ·, your proctor, student adviser, and cepting bids! Look at~und! the Sophomore Discipline Commit- As for living quarters, same ad- tee. It would: also be a good ·idea justments may have to be made. to carry around with, you .such im- If yqur rOOjll isn't big enough to por.taht documents as your social swing a cat in, change your pro- security cal'd, a New York State fession. For Goodness sakes ·don't . Iiquot• license, and your :sistet•'s take down any of the pin-ups on phone· number. · tht'l wall. Those pictures were., Don't worry about .eating ex- stapled .up there by the Board of penses. We, of the up :per crust, . Trustees just before the scaffold- ! ·have figured out a system where-. ing was taken dov/'n. Rip out one by a·nyone can eat on twenty-five or two of th·e key pictures and the cents a day. It's simple. ·For walls fold tip like an accordion.· breakfast you buy a nickel cup 'BY THIS TiME the college · of coffee, for dinner you buy a Bookstore will have stucl! you with . twenty cent sandwich, and for sup-· some seventy or eighty bucks per ycu eat them. · worth of books that will be obso- WHI,LE WE'RE on tho 'subJect Jete white-eiephal1ts. next year. You of South's Emporium, we might won't need them all, but take .them I explain why :breakfast is served anyway. It maltes a wonderful on the left side of the ·dining ha:Il ·impression even though you do go now instead of on the rigpt as had without food for three weeks, ·been the practice. The reason stu- If you come from a coedttca- dents a;re 'being cl].annelled to the: tional college, yoU'll. find that the other side is because the cashier's activities here are somewhat dif- ·right arm is overdeveloped because· ferent. But get into them any- Ot the cash register exercise. way. From a distance the activity Rather than risk malformation of · key can be passed off as a Phi the emplo·yecs, half of the serving Beta Kappa key. Just lteep twist- table was ripped out. . ing it. Oh, yes, and about those long:. SO NOW my thrice blessed, en• lines at breakfast.. Ifs not :that lightened neoph:,~:te, l leave you. service is slow or that eggs. are·· As you stand at the threshold of a \fried\ and brought out individu-. new experience, remember these ally. The ide.a behind making you few words of wisdnm .and Jet them wait until fiv;:. minutes to eight be- be your guide: 11) test the food Oil fore giving service is to :allow the a colorfast fabric before you eat profs to get to class before you. it, (2) insist on a bilth certificate Most of them are married, you at Nott Terrace from Nott Terrace know. girls, and (3) schedule activities THIS SUBJECT of fraternities and social life to leave at least one is another thing we might touch hour a day for classes. Frosh -In Pajamas Serenade Larries Once again the Union Gol- €>------------ lege freshmen will have their AFTER LEAVING the campus, annual pajama party through the procession wilJ be le;1-d by the the peaceful streets of Sche- band which will head down Nott. ·nectady. Between 2 and 5 :30, Terrace to State street, and thence to the Van Curiel' Hotel. The p.m., the frosh began strug- freshmen intend to display their gling up to Daley Field with deep devotion to Union with SG·ng their burden of three orange 'lnd cheer in their procession to Sl 1 t the Van Curler, where they will ·crates a person. ow Y a \':reet the visiting St. Lawrence first, then more rapidly, the football team, whic.4. probably won't pile was built up to its pre- appreciate their kind attention. sent size. After thoroughly waking the AT ABOUT 8 ·p.m., the freshmen residents of the VC, the lads will will reappear at the field adorned wend their weary way back to in the .traditional paja.Jrtas, com- Blue ga.te where they will be plete with button and beanie. The checked in by members of the pile will be lit and soon afterward, · S.D.C. Anyc·ne who is not checked a snake dance will be started by in will be considered cutting by the. the frosh, who occasionally will · s.D.C., and is subject to :penal ac- take time out to delight the ears tion. of the audience with a few Union cheer·s·. In the interest (Jf persona:! and propet•ty safety, tl1e pcjice and . fire departments will be on the scene. Somewhere in the neigh- borhood of 9:00 or 9:30, p.m., the line w1n ~traighten out and head foJ; Payne gate and the streets of Scherieqtady_ It might be added here, that In the interest of public safety,, WSNY, the Gazette; and the Uilion- Star, informed the citizens of Sche- nectady of the impending parade. Orson Welles might use what wm follo-w for the plot of 2nother story about the Martian hrvas.ion. for after. !'til, who c·an tell a Martian ·from a freshman. ·--~---------·-----~-~ I I 1 We Sell I ~ K & E : DRAFTtNG I ~ INSTRUMENTS ' I : HAYDEN 1 l PHOTOCOPY 'j i .133 SO. CHURCH ST. . off Lower State St. I 1 Phone 4-5154 : _________ . ____________ j FRESHMEN! UPPERCLASSMEN.! Not only Indians but College Students too can save ci heap big wampllm at the SENECA LAUNDROMAT Quicker, Cleaner, Cheaper, & Close +o Campus 1699 VanVranken Ave. 4 Blocks from NoH Str~et at first. 'Traffic: Light Hours 8 a.m.-9 p.m.Mon• Fri. 9 a.m,....;s p.m. Sat. Tonight? 3 Happiness Idol History Revealed By Martin Po1•tnoy . ·Eighty years ago, ·the New York Central Railroad at a charge of $300 shipped a Chinese idol, a lion with her young . cub, to Union College. The lion had come to the United ·States free of charge as a ballast on a Chinese tea clipper. TEN YEARS previous to this,~-------~--~--~-~ the idol, symbolic of happiness, good fortune, and long life, had been dug up on the so·uth side of Shanghai by troops preparing earthworks for the defense of the city during the Taiping Rebellion. The troops presented the idol to the Reverend J. M. W. Farnham, Union, '86, who ran a school close to the diggings. Dr. Farnham ' traced the lion back to the fif- teenth century and found it similar to the lions guarding the Ming SINCE THEN the idol has been painted, burned, and greased ·regu- larly each year, and has come to be a vital part of the freshman, sophomore rivalry. In 1947, stu- dents of R.P.I. invaded the Union campus inside an armored car in an effort to make off with the idol. They succeeded only in k_nocking it off its stand and were forced to make a hurried depart- ure. Tombs in Peiking. He then de- Di'. Farnham's comment about I cided to ship the rare piece of his lion, when visiting the campus sculptm e to Union, where he hoped in 1883, is as appropriate as ever . 1 its great value would be appreci- today, \It ~the idofl has found a ated. place in the affections of the stu- WHEN THE IDOL arrived in dents I never expected, having be- Schenectady, the perplexed admin- come their local diety. It is an- istration placed it out of sight in swering a purpose I never dreamed the college storage shed. In 1876, of, though I must not be held re- s\ix years later, the college, receiv- sponsible if the sons of old Union ing a leHer from Dr. Farnham tell- turn 'idol-ators' and become ing of his plans to visit the United heathen. This would be very sad, States and Unio11 that year. hur- as I am giving my life to teaching I riedly removed the lion from stor- heathens how to become Chris- , age and placed it. in the lane be- tians.\ I hind the president's house. I The day after the idol was placed 1 in the lane, it was painted by four , students who merely wished to i \cover the ugly creature\ and who hardly realized they were c1 eating 1 a tradition. Stealing paint from the Nott Memorial building which was then in the final stages of con- struction, they painted the stone lion white with red lips. They then placed a huge sign on the bulletin board proclaiming that \Prexy's little god has char.ged its color.\ '\' .............. \\\\' .... ~ Serving Union's Men For Years See you•· agent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Poll Comments Reveal Student 'Beefs' Phone 4-5676 1 I 4 State St. near Ferry The recent Concordiensis poll to<$>------·----------------------~ ,.....,..._ \\..,,..,.. ... ...,.,.., A\\' ........... , ............... test student opinion regarding the in the morning and remain open new library hours resulted in many in the evening until 11 o'clock, thus interesting comments, both apropos , not increasing the working hours and otherwise. but still giving students who are GEMS OF wisd'om, jotted c·n the limited in afternoon study time a bottom of mimeographed poll· chance tc. keep up on their work. sheets, ranged from \Down With Reasons given for the necessity Webb\ to \I hate chapel,\ but also of later library hours also included included some good suggestions, the lack of reference books in cer- ideas and \beefs.\ tain courses, the need for extended whereby bound periodicals could be taken out with a deposit re- quired. Many cited the almost im- possible task of finding a book in \that dungeon called the base- ment.\ THE CONCORD¥ came in fer· its share of the blasts. One man wrote. \Can't the Concordy find more important improvements for the campus and the student body?\ It is interesting to note that the same student complained that he was not satisfied with present li- brary hours. DESK LAMPS Adjustable Incandescent and Fluorescent • SAVE SUPPLY CO. 501 State St. One student, writing his feelings periods of work on research papers quite bluntly, said \ ... lack of and the poor study conditions in study cubicles is a pain in the ass.\ ether places on the campus. Others were not quite so c·ut- SOME STUDENTS cited the de- sp(Jken, but their comments struction of books and magazines amount to practically the same last year, and a few defended the thing. library in its move to do away with One far-seeing Unionite even suggested that the college should suggested a system build a new library. Amen! :MANY EXPRESSED the idea the cubicles. that the library could open later One student PHONE 6-4193 BACK ON EVERY CAMPUS! Plenty Of White Shirts Good semester starters ... handsome, long-wearing Arrow whites. Crisp •.• fresh •.. tailored right. In campus-approved styles, including the \Dart\ (non-wilt coll~r), the widespread \Par\ and the button-down Gordon oxford. On every campus the countzy ovet .•. and at your favorite Arrow dealer's now.. ARROw SHIRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHffiTS ,• I I I i. I I Welcome Back To NUSBAUM'S 44 7-451 STATE STREET For Your Favorite Arrow White Shirts !il3.65 up Make it a point to see us soon ••• we have a grand new selection of Arrow whites to show you. Every shirt SanfQrized-labeled (shrink- age less than 1 %) , snd Mitoga cut for better fit. Several collar styles to choose from • • • come in for your Arrows now. FOil ARROW UNIYERSI1'Y S1'YUS

4 Lone soph starfRr who will be at left halflmok. last year, Is out for the season with a broken ankle while fullback Chick Metro may see only limited service. Metro, who ran 75 yards on an intercepted pass play last year, didn't play against Cham- plain. Line coach Art Lawrence scouted St. Lawrence last week and re- ports them rugged, speedy, and readq. Their straight \T\ forma- tion is smoother than last year. Lawrence reports right halfback Bobby Reyell as the major ground gaining threat while quat·terback Jack O'Loughlin looks better than ever. O'Loughlin did not have to resort to his passing attack last Saturday but he is known to be a distinct aerial threat. On the offensive line, St. Law- rence will average about the same as Union's 183 pounds. However, the Larries are a considerable number of pounds above this on defense. As Hammerstrom says, we will have to \outscrap them, play heads up ball for 60 minutes, and be IIi top physical condition in order to win.\ Neither Sam nor his squad is yielding an inch be- fore the game begins. ' HAMMF;RSTROM will start nine Dress Clothes Headquarters Tux, Tails & Accessories OT.TAVIANO'S Sartorial Bar 115 Jay Street Opposite City' 'Ha.ll FOR All YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since J9J J ., The main problem appears to be depth. A few key injuries could knock the whole team out of whack but nobody is thinking of those at the present. The team, with their coach, is concentrating on pulling a surprise, that is a surprise to everyone but them- selves, by beating the powerful Larries. THIS is the 18th game of the series since 1886. Union has won 9, lost 4, while four have been ties. LE-Pomeroy LT- Templeton LG-Parker C-Sherwin RG-Kenny RT-Abba <co-capt.) RE-O ram QB-Fletcher (co-capt.) LH-Snyder RH-Jackson FB-Wilsey Henning Sywetz Omerly Lee DeMaio Walin Emmons O'Loughlin Yannes Reyell Prevost \. Public Opinion- NOTHING IS STRONGER ••• given the facts NOTHING IS WISER On Small Business In this country, about 2,000 new businesses start up every day. The Secretary of Commerce re- cently stated: \The growth in number of small businesses since the war has been one of .the healthiest chara<:teristics of our economy.\ • * * * Every basic invention-lamps, x-ray, radio, and television- creates hundreds of new busi- nesses. * * * Ten years ago, there were only half a dozen manufacturers of television sets. Today, after mil- lions spent on research and mass production, there are 104 sepa- rate companies making TV sets. Four companies manufacture tele- casting equipment. Thirty-five make television picture tubes, And hundreds of companies make television parts. More of these are small businesses than large. Twelve years ago, General Elec- tric offered the first practical fluorescent lamps for sale. Today there are a number of manufac· turers making fluorescent lamps. Over 1500 separate companies are producing fixtures for them. * * * In 1927, when General Electric began marketing electric refrig- · erators, only 390,boo families had them. Today more rhan 29 mil- lion families have electric refrig- erators. Thirty-eight different companies are manufacnu:ing them and selling them to the public through approximately 100,000 retailers. * * * Research and engineering are the core of General Electric's activi- ties. Each new discovery has its stimulating effect, nor alone at General Electric, but in thous- ands of businesses, large and small, from one end of the nation to the other. You can put your confidence in- GENERAL ELECTRIC ; .. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER :Z9, 1 ?50 In Nashville, Tennessee, there is alwafs a friendly gathering -of Vanderbilt University students at the Vanderbilt Center on the cam- pus, And as in universities every- where, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make these get-togethers something to remember.~ a refreshing pause from the study grind, or on a Satur- day night date-CQke belong&• .dsk Jar -it either way , , • !Jotk trade.marlr.s mean the same thing. B.Otrul) UNDER AlJi'HORttY OF lHE COCA.COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA.·COLA BOTTLING COMPANY © 19~0, The Coca-Cola. Compcujy _ FRIDAY. SEf ·~ $ Oth' s~.:

h- es in r .. , ;·::\:~;· FRIDAY. SEPJ(MBifR 29. 1950 ~ -=~==Short~ ~ ~?Shots § .)im. c.umichael ;t Jlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll, . Caryle \Cookie\ Sherwin is now ' starting his third year of varsity : football at Union College, By the time he graduates he will have CI'Jmpleted not on,ly his third year · of varsity footl:)aH, but also his third year of varsity basebaH and • basketball. This Is, of course, bar- ring the event of any injuries .or the \playing of any roles.\ But all J,ddding aside, ()oolde. • deserves a lot of credit for being ' one Of the better all around athletes at Union in quite 11ome • time. Such great former Union . athletes IllS Hal Enstice and Bob : Bartlett played all t,hree major ; sports. but neithel.' of tl,lem played pll four· years. in all three ·of the , sports as ·Coolde will bave done: · w4en he gra.d~tes. ·, Cross Country Stars Pictured above are Dick Dolan and, Abe Lakshin, .stars of what should be an outstanding cross country team. Lakshin, the course record holde~·, was captain of last year's squad. Dolan was the shining light of ·the freshman team which went undefeated, He smashed the freshman record fom• times in four times out, Speaking of four year men· bringl! . to .,mind the fact that. , Union's greatest nemesis (nameiy · Ralph Loveys) completes his atl}le-. ------~--~--~~-------,'-~-----­ tic career at. Middlebury this year. '.As a frosh basketballer, Loveys · c c T scored 25 ,points to help Middlebury· .· ·.·ro· ss . . ou. n· t·. ry' : earn· .. · down the Union frosh, ·61-59. Two . . . .Intramural ·Rules Give:n , Within the next couple of weeks • the intramural season wm be well under way on Library field and the tennis courts. Both the foot- ball and the tennis schedules will · . be posted on Art Lawrence's o£fice door in the gym. FOUR :MEN will be required for . each of the tennis matches. There . · will he two ·singles sets ·!'J,nd one : doubles set. The best two out of three will constitute a victory. One· man will ·not be able to play in a singles and doubl!l!'l set. The follow- ing are the rules for the touch footl:)all games: · 1-Referee will be furnished. 2---No .cleated shoes will be al- lowed. \ · 3-All men will be eligible for a. 4-~~:S~ man football: five men Francis E. O'Brien must be on the line of scrim- mage on offense. E>efensive, Pictured above is the latest ad- team can vary the number of dition to the Union College coach- men on the line. On all punts ing staff, Francis E. O'Brien. both teams must have five men · O'Brien succeeds Vic Star.zenski as on the Une. varsity lacrosse coach and Tony . 5-Five downs to make a goal: Roc~o as backfield coach of. ~he and the team must announce a vars~ty foot~all t~am. In ~dd1bon punt.. Neither team advances t~ h1s athletic duhes, he w11l teach until the ball is kicked. history, &-Two- hands, above the waist, The youthful mentor is a Dart- touch:, moutb College graduate where he Ten Frosh Harriers Out s The Union frosh cross country team is going through daily after- no·on workouts under the direction· of Coa,ch Bill Ketz and they should be in good condition come ·October 7 when they join,· the varsity in a journey to the University of Ver- mont. A REVISED list of the squad shows that two additional men have turned out and three have dropped out. Those now at work are William :Burns, Alan MacKin- . non, Rich Van Patten, Dick Dyer, Kenneth Stein, Michael Kahn, Bill Lang, Dan Gestwick, Richard Strout, and Charles Suter. At this tim~ it is Impossible to pick the numbe1· one man on the team with at least four of the men showing promise of leading the field .on Oc- tober 7. The freshmen are nO'W running their three mile course as a major part of their workout. Aside from a. few sets of blisters, there have been no casualtieso so far this year. seasons back he led Middlebury to ~ :~l ~/e~~!kr:!ntil~ic~~ry p~~~: ~~ 1 ~~ Prep•S fo· r· Ver· m.on· t j ·. Union had been leading, 25-4, at · n- : ~ .. ij one point in the game~ Last season 7-The point after touchdown will· played two years of lacrosse and be kicked from the 10 yard line. three of football for the Big Green. No ·rushing. In the spring of 1948 he served as assistant backfield coach at Alma .8-Kick-off, to start game, from • Mater. He comes to Union from the 10 yard line. ' Honolulu, where 4e coached fresh- ·. 9-No sleeper plays; twelve min- men and jayvee football at Puna- QUALITY CLEANING AT MODERATE PRICES * is ·Of at m- ng · :< he again hit double figures and By Bill Mobi'Dlann controlled the backboards while Rounding into form for the first meet against Vermont, .:, ; Middlebury again took Union's measure. October 7, the Union College cross country squad, under the Two years ago we beat Middle- direction of Coach Bill Ketz, looks forward to a fine season. bury In football,. 14-7, but Loveys Barring; any tough breaks the harriers should live up to ex\ made that .a hard earned victory. Last year, .the only blot on our pectations. JIOOOrd was a 14-14 tie at the hands THIS is a veteran team vastly <!>·----------~--­ of Middlebury and guess wWi strengthened by the addition of who blocked the .punt that resulted . three outstanding runners from in mddlebury's last score? That's. last year's Undefeated freshman J.'lght, Loveys. W~U, hei'~'s boJjing squad and the return of Gus Nird- we C!ill: give him sometWng ·to. re- linger, outstanding freshman of member us by · this yef!.r in both . two years ago, who was curtailed football and basketball. by a leg injury last season. Along ' mont, Hostre., and· · R.P;I, squa~s loom as the toughest competition. Both Vermont and R.P.I. defeated tl;le Garnet last year, while Hostra, . a. new team on the schedule, had a fine record. This .past summer, I played bas- witb Captain Abe Laltshin, who is · ketball in the Schenectady YMCA the present course record holder; Gl • night league, and played against Diclt Polan will lead this . year's 3flClflg Glenn E:inns (last year's leading hill and dalers. Dolan promises to- . ·;: scorer on the frosh team) and' be. one of Union's greatest. ' Backwards with \Squint\ Chillrud, a member: .vastly improved over last year is . ( of last year~s varsity \tiger\ squad. Jack Larkin, second man on the 1949-Union elev:en wins second Glenn did some fine shoo-ting and freshmen last year, who probably straight game of season and their reboundi~g. lie scored twenty plus· will run in one of the top positions. seventh ·straight by defeating in several .of the game('!. \Squint\ .Also back is J;!ob Murr~y who beat Rochester, 27-7, in their home av~raged around 10 points a game Larkin in the final meet last year. opener. Soccer team loses opener, and stabbed four men while i:'e- RETURNING VETERANS in- 5-2, to the University of Massa- bom:\Q.lng. elude Alex MacCormick, holder of chusetts. Tomorrow our football squad the number two spot last y~ar and 1945-Football suspended for the takes thl! field in its first contest Diclt Mechanic who defeated Mac- year. Basketball team starts prac- of the season and :fur the first Cormick in the two mile run dur- tice under Coach Milo Sewards. time: under our new coa.ch, Sam ing the track season. Mechanic de- Bob Bartlett and Whitey Markes :lia.ili.nierstrom. It should be evi-: veloped during the spring while are likely looking prospects. dent that this year's squad d,oes MacCormick is running better than 1940-;--C oa ch Nels Nitchman's not. mea!iure up to last year's squad last season. gridmen take opener from Haver- in experience, size, or depth. put• In a speed tr-ial last Tuesday,. ford( College, 19-6, for their 11th nevertheiess you can bet that we'H three men broke ten minutes for straight. Ed Enstice, fullbaclt with have as good or 'J:)etter spirit on the course and two others ran be- the impossible job of filling Sam the tea~ as we did last year. tween ten and eleven seconds. Dick Hammerstrom's shoes, scores two E t · · touchdowns. nough said fol' the earn spirit, Dolan was the individual winner, 1 935 -Union eleven, under Coach but what about the school ·spirit followed by Lakshin, Larkin, Mac- this Year? Last year it \stun!'-.\ Cormick, and Don Morrison. Mor- .Elliot Hatfield, ties Middlebury, 6-6, Let's hope we change a little this rison who ran the course in 10:11 ·in opening football game. Arthur year and give the team a little also looms as a ·prospect. C. Lawrence appointed line coach · for football. Bill Ketz dissatisfied vocal support, because there may THE HARRI·ERS face a seven b ti h th d it · with the showing of his cross e · · mes w en ey nee • meet schedule in which the Ver- country men. $1295 Ot'her Freemana SIJ.Il5 to $22.50 C ''C . '' ampus rulsers ... in pliable serviceable Bootskin with sturdy boot~sewn seams and rawhide lacing. Thickest multi- soled bottoms we've seen! Its a FREEMAN ihoe THS FOOTWZA& 01' IVCCll88rVL NIM NUSBAU-M'S The Nation!s Leading Brand~ For Men and Boys 447-541 STATE STREET ute halves; hou School for the past two years. 1&--Tie games; use yardage play otr. 11-;-All games start at 12:55 p.m. VETS NOTICE 12-A team must lose twice to be eliminated. Watching and Waiting LAST WEEK St. Lawrence-39,. Champlain-0 THIS WEEK St. Lawrence vs. Union RPI vs. Alfred Rochester vs. Allegheny Champlain. vs. New Hampshire Hobart vs. Columbia Williams vs. Prin-ceton Middlebury vso. Wesleyan Hamilt(}n not scheduled. A TIP TO THE FROSH! the JAMES REST AU RANT Good Food at· Reasonable Prices Booth Service 426 State Street Married veterans who expect to apply for Bailey grants-in-aid · should do so with Mr. Ketz at once. A budget covering both in- come and expenses must be sub- mitted. Intramural Notice Players participating in the : intramural tennis tournament will he given preference in using ·, the all weath~r tennis courts in the next few days for practice · purposes, Art Lawrence, di- rector of intramurals, has an- nounced. All students are ex:- .pected to cooperate with this . move to facilitate the holding of the tourney. · Fo-:- Car Troubles See a Union Man • William H. Plath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY. N:Y. l1T JAY STRRT $5.00 pe'r Album-:-Mail orders $5.35 to cover packing a·nd postage Sold o.nly at ·the- BOOK STORE

6 Philomatheans Have Interesting History WRUC Broadcasts College Cheering Draft Situation Fails Squad Selects T. h C US The Cheerleading Squad for 0 T reaten amp ·. By Monroe Silverman \The.time is come the yv:alrus said, to speak of many things --of shtps and shoes and sealing wax-of cabbage and kin oos.''. I:ewis Carroll was referring, no duobt, to the Philomath\\ean So~1ety, one of the oldest debating societies in the country and the organization responsible for the introduction of th~ round-table discussion as a style of debate in America. THE PHILOMATHEAN Society,~--------~---­ U~i~n's. debating team.' had its cipline on <Nov. 25, 1796, two origm m_ the old Calliopean So- members were- fined for whisper- ciety ~htch was founded by stu- ingl has been relaxed. At the turn dents m the Academy o-f Schen.ec- of the 19th century the secrecy and tady, on_ October 17, 1793, . about fraternal nature disappeared, and tw~ years before the foundmg of the Philomathean Society became ymon C~llege. Its .purpose was solely a debating society. Its popu- Radio station W R U C has listed its special events broad- casts for the coming week. The campus station will carry a play-by-play broadcast of the Union-St. Lawrence fa o t ball game tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. from Alexander Field, On Sunday afternoon they will pick up the organ recital by Elmer A. Tidmarsh begin- ning at 4 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. WRUC will reveal the inner secrets of the Sophomore Disci- pline Committee in a recorded program Wednesday evening at 8 p.m. A tape recording was made, supposedly without SDC knowledge, at a recent fresh- man t r i a l. Station officials promise a real treat for listen- ers 1950-1951 was chosen last W ednes-: Ed! to • day in! complia,nce with a recent By Robert C. Smith, Featut•e 1 , 1 . f th st d t c ·1 Th ~. . ·. u · Colleg·e has not as yet maten- ru mg o e u en ounm · e .The d.raft Sl tuatr.on at mon . th ca·J\\ .. pus m·anpowe· r old members of the squad are: l d h hmg e .u Gerx•y Shapiro, captain, and Bud a 1ze · mto anyt mg' approac · d b · Lester. The new members are Paul threat that it was previott~ly e:xpectt, ta keG bski and John Danizger, Frank Glockner, and At present only two students, 1an ra · . · t Bernard Davis. The selection com- Thornblad have been drafted. Also, only two reservlS s, mittee was composed of Wolfgang Donald Si:Umons and Francis Jutras have been called to ac- Riemet, representative of the Stu- tive duty. In addition to these fot~r men,, 'Robert Str<>ugh ~=:e~t~~~ci~f ~~~h~~oc~a~~;, r~~= and Edward Townley have voluntarilY enlisted t~. ~eet the ciety; a:nd Harold J. Wittner, di- need for :new recruits as a result of the Gorean CllSlS. rector of athletics. The new cheer- leaders hav all been issued their :regulation grey flannels and are busy practicing for the first foot- ba;]l game aglliinst St. Lawrence If a man receives an order of • . this Saturtlay . ---o--- .jnducti on while attending classes reservists must compiy with in college, he will be deferred for orders. the balance of the schOQ! year pro- All males 18 yea:rs of age must viding he presents the board with register. 'This may be do~e. on·. his own request accompanied by a· campus in the student acbvrties statement issued by the college offic~,; At the time of r~gistrati(}h, that he is satisfactorily pursuing a the student has the chmce of reg- full time course of instruction. istering with his home draft board .the acqmrement of llterary know!- larity since 1900 has been spas- edge, th~ p~omotion o~ virtue and medic. In April, 1943, due to the the cu~tlvatl~n ,of somal ~armony manpower shortage caused by and fr.rendshrp. T~e socrety was World War II, the society was in- more. l!lte a r.ratermty than a club, activated. It was reactivated in and rts meetmgs were secret. On November, 1946. Nov. 13, 1794, a member was fined one shilling and six pence \for reading his composition to a per- son who is not a member of the Society, and thus injuring its repu- Last year the Philomathean So- ciety was m01·c active than it has been in any year since before the war. It had 23 members who took part in 16 intracollegiate debates, 19 intercollegiate debates and were hosts to the New York Students' Assembly on Public Affairs held in the legislative chambers in Al- bany. College Handbook . Pre-Meds to Meet Professor Leonard B. Clarlt would like to meet with premedical and predental students who ex- pect to apply to medical and den- tal schools this year at 4:30 p.m. on Monday, Oct. 2, in Room 205 · Biology laboratory. He would also Ji\{e to meet with all freshmen and transfer premedical and predental students at 4:30 on Monday Oct. 16, in room 205 Biology Jab. ACCO~DING to Wilford H. Ketz, or with the Schenectady draft \the co11ege will not ask the draft. board. Students who gave their board for a deferrment for the stu- home addresses w,hen registerjng dent, although the C(}llege will will have the information returned make every effort to assist the· to their hometown. boards. Stu~ student in the presentation of his dents should keep their home scholastic status to the draft · boards posted as to change of ad- tation.\ The meetings of the Callio·pean Society consisted of extemporane- ous talks by all members and a general criticism of all the speeches. Some of the early topics are extremely interesting. These are from 1794: \Whether gallanting the ladies be advantageous to the students\ (This was passed in the affirmative,) \The advisability of waging war with Great Britain\ (1794), \Whether• it be proper for students to take tea frequently with the ladies\ and \Whether Schenectady be a proper place for a college.\ The conclusion reached by the Calleopian Society on the last question is not recorded. but there are indications that a coliPge was subsequently founded in Schenec- tady. On September 3, 1795, a few months after the founding of Union College, the Calliopean So- ciety reorganized itsPif as the Philomathean Society. '!'he change, however, was merely nominal; everything else remain·ed the same. IN ITS EARLY years the Philo- mathean Society was one of the most active and powerful groups on campus. The expulsion of any member from the society was an- nounced by the Schenectady papers ALL THESE, plus a few other activities, were undertaken with- out the aid of a coach. This year, however, the Philomathean c So- ciety will be coached by Professor Erwin Von Schlicten and expects an even more active and successful progr'am. ---o•--- St. Andrews (Continued from Page 1) leaving today on the Queen Mary. are continuing studies in accord with their individual courses at Union. All are receivin.g credit for their junior year and major re- quirements for a year in absentia. BRODY, apparently speaking for the others. attributed his request to study at St. Andrews to his many talks with Mitchel Rabbino, Donald Miller, and Scott Anderson and to his desire for, \a fuller de- velopment of personality and in- sight.\ ---·o--- lnfOrffiatiOD as a great disgrace. At gradua- {Continued from Page 2> tion, highly esteemed diplomas were awarded to its members. The Gym, 7::!0 p.m.; Newman Club, private library of the Philomathean CE106, 7:30p.m.; American Assn. Society was very extensive; in 1848· Univ. Women, OC, 7 p.m. it consisted of over 3,00 volumes. THURSDAY, OCT. 5 - Daily As- For a time the number of books sembly, The St. Andrews Ex- in the Philomathean Society's pri- change Scholars, MC, noon; fra- vate collection exceeded the n.um· ternity night; Glee Club re- ber of the coUege library. but in hearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m. 1886 1;:he Philomathean Society don- FRIDAY, OCT. 6 - Daily Assem- ated all its books to the college bly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, library. noon; choir rehearsal, choir At the beginning, the Philo- room, 4:30 p.m.; band rehearsal, mathean Society concerned itself Gym, 4:30 p.m. Richmond, Va. - The most im- portant characteristic of a good roommate, .say college students is consideration. This is the general conclusion of the \College Board\ of the Going-' board.:'' dress. to-College Handbook, whose fifth -----------~.,.,~.-­ Juniors and seniors enrolled in , THE SCHENECTADY draft the AROTC are defet-red until they board is now sending men- born in complete or terminate by failw·e 1929 orders to report for .pre!ndl.\e- their course of study in the air tion physicals. For students whose force unit. All AROTC ·sopho- grades last June placed them in mores who sign a deferment the upper half of their dass, it agreement will also be deferred.· would :be advisable to· have the annual edition has just been pub- lished by Outlook Publishers. Stu- dents from all over the U.S.A. were asked, \What Makes a Good Roommate?\ Their replies, sum- marized by the handbook editors are: A GOOD ROOMMATE: 1. Is considerate (about lights, radio, use of room, etc.); 2. respects per- sonal property and privacy; 3. is loyal; 4. goes at least half-way; 5. helps keep a neat room; 6. can discuss controversial questions without getting ruffled; 7. makes reasonable adjustments; 8. keeps It is expected that during the· draft board notified of this fact reasonable hours; 9, cultivates a spring semester AROTC freshmen, so that they may be reclassifiedc cheerful disposition. in addition to having regular stu- 2A. Once an order to report for f dent deferment until June. will be a physical is received, the exan1in- The College Board was also o - fered some negative impressions, offered draft deferment until they ation mu.st be taken, although re- as these students said: AN UN· complete or terminate their course classification may still be applied DESIRABLE R 0 0 M MATE: 1. of study. for before induction. Think!'! chiefly of self; 2. makes A RESERVIST must aci:ually o~-- unreasonable demands; 3. borrows. ha:ve received notice of his recall Try()llt and Sets without asking; 5. leaves things . to active duty before making ap- WRUC will carey the play hy scattered around; 6. argues heat- plication fc·r delay. If a request play descripti-on of tlte Unio;n,.St, edly\'; 7. is nosey and noisy; 8. · for delay is denied or no reply to Lawrt'n(le football game tonioriQw. comes in late and wakes everybody a request is received prior to the Dicit Relkin and' Danny Weiner up; 9. is too solitary or too sociable. date for reporting to active duty, will handle the play by play. FROM THE WORLD'S FOREMOST PEN MAKER- new FOR THE FIRST TIME YOU CAN BUY A MODERN, PRECISION-MADE PARKER PEN AT JUST ABOUT ANY PRICE YOU WANT TO PAY. CHOOSE NOW-START SCHOOL WITH A BRAND N:EW PARKER! with much more than debating. SATURDAY, OCT. 7 - Varsity ''51'' NEW ,ARKER with the (lw,.w&vik 9J ~1lm. The world's most-wanted pen ... now equipped with the new exclusive Aero• metric Ink System. De· signed to far out-last ordi- nary pens. A real invest• men! in writing ple'iiSlirii! 8 rich colors. On Feb. 18, 1796 it was \Ordered: football, Union vs. RPI, Alex- That there be a standard commit- ander field, 2 p.m.; varsity soccer, tee to inspect the morals of the Union vs. University of Massa- society.\ The committee is no chusetts, Daley field, 2 p.m.; var- longer standing; but the question sity cross country and freshman remains unresolved. The rigidc dis- cross country, Burlington, Vt. ---------------------~ • L Ia BALFOUR CO. BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROP:m:m No Finer Place to Eat ~ • Try Us On Sunday Or • Write or call CARL SORENSEN On Your Next Date YEN DOME RESTAURANT : SO llllU\.l'aY Ave. Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMs 8-26~ 414 STATE STREET t ______________________ j FRESHMEN! Leave Your Clothes at WGY LAUNDRY 4·DAY COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE (CASH & CARRY) Only 3 Bloclts from Campug 520 UNION STREET • GENERAL HARDWARE • HOUSEHOLD GOODS • PAINTS David Mahoney Company 209 State St., Phone 3-3691 129 S. Brondywino Ave., Phone 3•3692 NEW PARKER \51••~a_Q 112111 NEW PARKER NEW PARKEIIE WINNER1950 f>ASHION ACADEMY AWARD SEE YOUR PARKER DEALER TODAY! He offers a full selection of colors, models, and points. Parker \51\ and \21\ Pens, and only these pens, are designed to use dry-Writing Superchrome Ink YOU N~VER ~EED A BLOTTER! (They will als~ use ordmary mk.) Ask for Parker Superchrome. Typical \51\ precision features, Fastest ·a etlan filler. Visible ink supply. Pli·glass reservoir. (No ru bl!er parts). Su pef- smooth OC!anium point. 4 colors. Lustraloy. caps. Unsurpassed for style.and precision at any prlce un· der $10.00. Octanium point. See-through ink chamber of Pli·glass. (&! rlibl!er parts). Simplified filling. 4 colors. Tlie outstanding econ· omy-priced pen of the year. A real .Parker .•. style pius genuine va.lue clear through. Satin· smooth, interchangeable point.. Stainless cap. 4 colors. Arou AU the. wo tors and kh analy~ed bel to take pf:fl Robert S. :br in an AP di: bears the by! (And we tho ington. on cc busin~ss 1,\.li douJJ.Ie life, : The Leag1 has p1inted information filled in the a list oOf Ci1J The ''Voter'! able tO ·an aJ o~ce, 56 S~hen.OOtady answer non registration .A,cco:r:ding in 'her syndi it w.ould 1: gambling ar g!tmbling s . City points difficult it from doing We agree. '\i make gainl heavy tax, and make guilty consc A mem.be soclatlon ol Furnishers word :for· • \brummelpli inen at~e = Bl'UDlmels. dress differ• :But a ma; want to stl!l.l Does this l Gary Da: American c years. ag.o, 1 U.S. citizen zation take Bavis has citiZen, anc , papers in t .AT THE 'I Proctor's: technioolor • vecy ¥renr times Fritn State: Gl ''Sunset 1 \When ~ Frankie La Pla.m: Biood\ an() Rivoli: •· . with Be~ isc well wo Ope1 Stag The Mou fall s.eas< \Light Up be presen Sun,da.y e' end, No:v. the follow through S1 RICH:AI of \Winfe play the p ney Blacl Levene ii Belva Mac cast as M ·a Freshm1 Carleton l Mrs. Mab fessor Or the part c Carol BrE Frances l Robert appears a Levine, w radical ir Shriner;.~ Schenecta stone. It! James F• and Josh1 :PROD\[ \Light U Forsyth, rell. The• McKiege Richard : Bernstein tumes wi Breithli'ti! :tnan!).ger Siesel. :E taken cat the hou: Haus. R1 be well DonaldS the M{)UI day,