za. 1951 of the s. Yeshiva 19 at will travel complete more .. Men Campus Forry N.Y. So Tickets Nc)w Available For - \The Glass Menagerie\ Vol. 78, No. 17 Founded at Union College in 1877. SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1951 Student Body Meeting Monday Noon PRICE 10 CENTS Monday Meeting WillAirPro'blems Broadway Actor Reinstated Withdraws Carmichael From Race An official meetil}g of th.e student body will be held Monday noon in Memorial Chapel for open\ discussion of problems related to the present Student Council conflict, it has been announced by Gerald Parker, president pro-tem. --------~~--~------------~ P - - RO u· d .I James Carmichael announced to the Concordien- . .· . ea . .· sis last night that he had withdrawn from the presi· · dential race, in favor of revising the entire student Quits Post council organizat_io_n_._- ___ _ Ma,y Appear at Meeting w:Oax:;;e :~~i:::: 5 by the Coun-: Fo.reigners Lewis B. Sebring, Jr., Director of Public Relations, has submitted his resignation as director, effec- tive April 1. Harold M. Van dt> Car, director of financial develop- ment of the college, will continue as acting director of public rela- tions for the present. James Carmichael was reinstated as a senior representative on the Student Council last Tuesday night in a move that involved the Council also rescinding its call for the recent presidential election and setting the date for a new presidential election with Carmichael and Gerald Parker as candidates cil last Tuesday to run for dent in another election Thursday, were originally not To Visit be present at Monday's sttld,lnl:l Union College will be host Men- body g;1thering. However, day noon to a group of 40 fo~eign students who are attending col- Carmichael has withdrawn · leges and un-iversities in New York the race, it appears that both eity. Sebring was granted , a six. months leave of absence in Janu- ary to work on material of hi's- torical value left by his father, five times city engineer of Schenectady, who died in October. He explained in a letter to Dr. Carter Davidson that he had found it would be impossible to complete the work in this .time, and so, in view of on Thursday, March 8. now appear at the meeting, Under the auspices of the Com- would then be presided over mittee on Friendly Relations .Among Foreign Students, a New Don Doherty Parker. Ymik City organization, this group In his withdrawal statement is visiting Albany to observe the ''Menagerie\ Opening Set ·For Thursday Rathskeller Shows Gain the Concordi'ensis last night, state government in action, and michael said that there Wnion has been asked .to receive no need -for an election if the visitors in order to :give them · dents vote in favor of his a chance to observe a typical the fact it would not ·be fair to. The Union College Rathskeller's · the college to ask for an indefinite fipancial statment ending Jan. 31, leave of absence, he was sub- 1951, shows an average sale of reorganization Monday. small American liberal arts college he did not reveal the outside the metropolitan area. The Mountebanks will pre- rnitting his resignation as director $85.15 for one hundred days opera- A number of fraternities will · of public relations. tion, making a grand sale of $8,- this plan, he stated that it To Hear Talks call for the scrapping of pre!lent constitution and the insti-· tution of a smaller Student C{)un-· cil with stronger :pow:ers. (ear- michael explains his actions- in a letter on page two of this issue.) Would Form Committee Carmichael has announced h.is wishes to serve as chairman of a· committee, made up of any in- terested members of the stude:nt body, to .draft a new constitution revising the entire student govern- !llent set-up. He feels that this could be accomplished in \about · two weeks\. Amendment of the constitution requires a two-thircls vote of t:he entire student body. This would have to be accomplished by a secret ballot at the meeting. It is expected that Parker will call a special meeting of the Stu- dent Council before Monda.y to outline plans for the student b()dy meeting, in the event that ' Cat'i- michael's proposal comes up fot\ a vote. Since the meeting is expected to be quite long, fraternities are urged to plan for delayed lunches · Monday afternoon. cntertain the visitors for- lunch, s-ent their second majol' pro- He said, however, that he would 514.92, with a net profit of $859.44, and at 1;30 the group will assemble duction of ·the season for a be glad to continue as editor of. making the period from Sep. 1950- in Old Chapel to hear brief talks six day run sta'rting this \Union Alumnus\ the college's Feb. 1951, the most successful by Dean C. William Huntley and Thursday night when the CUl'-' alumni magazine, if Dr. Davidson period to date in the Rathskeller's Professor Codman Hislop on the and the Graduate Council wished . history. Better than a 10% net history and program of the col\ tain · rises on \The Glass him to do so. . profit was shown and surprisingly lege .. Miss Ruth Haines, secretary Menagerie.\ Mr. Sebring, a graduate of Union enough, beer only accounted for of ·the Committee on Friendly Re- Don Doherty of the New York College in 1923, came to the col- 14% of the total sales. lations, will accompany the stu- stage heads the cast in the part of lege as director<Df public relations The Rathskeller policy for the d·ents. Tom Wingfield. He is supported in June, 1949, after twenty years coming term is one of the most Professor Gordon R. Silber, who by Richard Heimann as the Gen- with the New York Herald Tri- extensive of school activities. The <has arranged the program, pointed tleman Caller, Elaine Glunder as bune as political reporter, assistant staff will complete the entire phy- out that a similar group visited Amanda, and Anne Marie Smith night city editor. night city editor, sica! plant, by purchasing a com· the campus in February, 1950, and as Laura. and war correspondent during plete set of new furniture to re- was tremendously impressed with Prof. Donald s. Jones directed World War II. Prior to that he place the furniture now there on Union because, as studejlts in large the play while Heimann is also was with the Associated Press ioan from the college. An entire city universities, they had. had production manager for the show. for five years, and began his news- new lighting system will also be little contact with American stu- Walter Tower is technician, George paper work as a reporter on the installed, costing well over one dent lif~ in smaller institutimiS. Carter is scene designer, Herbert Schenectady Gazette from 1920 thousand• dollars. Union's outstanding record in its Schmert is property man, Eugene until 1923, during his last three own foreign student program Underwood is publicity director, years in college. 1\lalnta.in Same Prices brought about the original interest William Brandow is light tech- 0 The report also stated that \al- on the part of the committee in nician, and Leslie Couch is cos- LI. g· on Back though a profit of $860 may SPero 'having their !\\roup visit Union, tume man. . . . like a large amount it mu~t be re- he added. · ·Critics Award. Play alized that expenditures for fixed ----o----- Tennessee Williams, the author, From Jaun·t assets run to large sums. This A E received the Drama Critics Circle last ter-m our largest expenditure rt xpert Award for '\The Qllass Menagerie\ Exhausted after ·a month's trip was $485 for a storage refriger- . · as the best play of the 1946 season. traveling a total of 12 , 000 miles ator.\ Schmidt went on to say that L Williams has also written \A· by air throughout the United \since the physical plant will be 0 ec . tu· re Streetcar Named Desire\ \Sum- States, Dr. Ernest Ligon returned completed, except for small addi- mer and Smoke\ and \The Rose home with 68 pages of notes to tions, during the coming term it Tattoo\ which is currently running read to his staff of the Union Col- is safe to assume that the Raths- on :Broadway. lefe Character Research Project. keller wil !attempt to maintain its Acceleration Under Debate· Doherty will arrive here Sunday His tour, sponsored -by the moderate prices and good quality for the dress rehearsals. Acting churches, private schools and food at the expense of profits.\ the part of Tom will be only one Y.M.C.A.'s in the Research Pro- The Business Man\':rger's Repo\:t of his activities during his two ject, carried him to fifteen cities, further· stated that the amount week stay on campus. He will also ranging in .size from Chicago, to paid to students for services is lecture at two classes and consult minute Georgetown, Texas. equal to fifteen one-hundred dol- with all students interested in the Dr. Ligon attended mostly\ con- lar \Grant-in-Aids\ and. the sig- Rescind General Election The action was taken when the Council passed a motion by George Hendon that they \rescind the call fOl' the gen- eral election for· Council presi- dent\. The :ninal vote was 13-3 in favol' of the proposal despite the point raised by William Delaney that the method was contrary- to Rob- erts Rules of Order, from which the Council derives its rules of Parliamentary pro- cedure. Included in the dis- cussion of the issue was a motion by Harry Petrak to tab1e Hendon's proposal until opinion could be weighed as to the students' views at the Student Body meeting set for Monday by president pro-tem Parker. Carmichael was reinstated by a 17-0 vote of the members, after Sigmund Giambruno, who was ap- pointed to- replace him, asked for an acceptance of his own resigna- tion and the reappointment of Carmichael in the same motion. Giambruno served approximately one hour as a Council member. Run-Oft' Held With nominations in order for Council -president once again, a motion was first made by Harry Petrak that the number of can- didates be limited to two to insure the winner of receiving a clear majority of the votes cast. In the event of more than two men being nominated, there was to be a run- off ballot within the Council to \- ' eliminate all but two. Petrak, Parker and Carmichael were nominated with Petrak losing on the run-off ballot. Professor Harold A. Larr!llllee · will pre~ent the perthient report . containing the findings ar.d r-ecom- .. m•mga:ttons 9f his Faculty Com- mittee on Acceleration next Tues- day, after the results of a limited campus survey, can:vassing stud:eni:: opinion on tb,e subject, have iJ.eeo ' tabulated. \Our objective,\ said Lar-rabee, , \is to get ar;I accurate idea of theater'. ferences, speaking on the average nificance of this additional source The play will r-un Thursday of 5 hours a day. His lectures oi part-time employernent to stu- through Saturday of the next two were on the topic \Personal Equa- dents should be appreciated. Wages weeks, March 8-10 and· 1547. Cur· tion\ based on Union College's are paid only to counter men. the tain time is 8:.30 for all perform- findings· in testing and guidance rnau vvho prepares food prior to ances. Tickets are now ·on sale in programs in city schools. the da.ily opening and to the man Hanna Hall in Washburn HalL At the University of Texas. who cleans the 'Skeller. The of- Students may procure tie).cets by Austin, Dr. Ligon presented the ficers of the activity do not re- presenting their student activities Robert F. Jones lecture on prob- ceive any compensation for their cards. 1ems of religious education. At time and efforts which make avail- Columbus, Ohio, be spoke before able to the college family all the the Education Section of the Na- many advantages of the Raths- After much debate over the per- iod that should be allowed to elapse between Monday's Student Body meeting and the election, the arbitrary figure of three days was .agreed upon and the voting set for Thursday. The services of the Rathskeller were volunteered as a polling place from 12:00 noon until 6:00 p.m. Carbone to Preside The Council also decided that they would ask both Carmichael and Parker not to appear at the the individual college thinks about the possibility of ae-: celerating his course.\ Short-q'lles-' tion:haires were distributed to <eet\- tain classroom groups for this put'-· pose containing prl3ferences subject matter, length of projected term, and condition of the students finances for a summer session.. Two Plans Offered According to Larrabee there two possibile alternatives: a ·semester during the summer school continuing all year or an abbreviated session which a maximum of two or full year courses would be offered. Far off on the horizon is a eornprd- sory summer session for a.U stu- dents. Because there has been no definite . country-wide -plan of speeding up, College author-ities are hesitant because either plan may have to be radically cha.:nged in the near future. ·while there is no guarantee that a summer school student wClUld be draft .exempt, the prospect of sum· mer· ter!Xls ·offer the advan.tage <lf m'ore schooling before entra.nee i:n· ·to the armed forces. Larrabee urges all students to seriously t\(}n• alder such advantages a:s we11 as financial and personal factors tl1a,t. will influence his decision on -wn.at he will (!o thls summer. Ulfret Wilke, assistant professor of painting at the University of Louisville, Kentucky, wm visit and lecture at Union College on Wed-' nesdi:i;y, March 7 1 and Thursday, • March .8, it has been- aJ;~.nounced by Professor Frank P. All)right, chair- man of the department of art. The highlight of Mr. Wilke's visit will be a public demonstra- . tion on gouache in the Old Chapel .A,rt G'~;~.llery on Wednesday evening, eight o'clock. During his two day stay at Union, Mr. Willte will give four additional lectures In Oid Chapel: Flu Epidemic Subsiding Accm·ding to Dr. Arony The epidemic of a flu-like virus infection, which has been evident ·on campus for the past three weeks, is on the decline,. according to pr. Alexander Arony, college physician. About 120 cases have been re- ported, but this does not include many others who have not -re- ceived treatment at the infirmary. TJ::te infirmary has been nine-tenths full for the past three weeks, ac- cording to :Dr. Arony, which is a record. The State Health Department bas taken nasal washings and blood tests from several Union students in an attempt to isolate the virus and compare it to the epidemic in England. The pre- valence of the disease in the Sche- nectady area has forced the closing of several schools in the outlying areas. Quazg -Quote She•s only a build in a g:i:rdll'd tfonal Council of Churches con- keller. clave. -----01---- --~-o---- Wheeler Elected Edwin Wheeler· was elected president of the Delphic Society at a' meeting helil this week. Other officers named. for the corning year. are Calvin Schmidt, vice- president; and Donald Wilsey, sec- retary-treasurer. Enrollment Union College Full time students . . . . . . . . 974 Special students ....... _ .. _ M Graduate students . . . . . . . 11 Extension students ....... : 322 To ttl.!, Union CoJ]ege . . . . lSH l\Iedl~.al College . .... ... ... ... 193 College of Pharmacy . . . . . . . • 870 Albany Law School .. , . . . . . . 285 • Union S'cltool of N-ursing . . . • 245 Total, Union {lillv~rBity. • 2434 Vete~aus In tile University Umon College . . . . . . . . . . . . 360 Medieal College ........ , , . 126 Co1Ie15e of Pharmacy . . . . . 89 Albany Law School . . . . . . . 193 Total Veterans . . . . . . . . . . 767 College Enrollment, Sept, 1950 1512 University Enrollment, Sept. 1950 .. ,_, . \ . . . . . . . .. . . 2638 Veterans, Sept. 1950 . . . . . . . . . 765 Shortened Rushing Approved by IFC The Inter-Frate1•nity Council in its meeting last Tuesday night approved a four week rushing period for next fall. With hardly any discussion, the council voted, seven in favor, three against, with two members abstaining, for a rushing period that is two weeks shorter than last year. Roger Fenwick, Council Secre- tary, reported that the profit from the IFC sponsored Fall prom · amounts to $226.48. The council now has over $300 in its account. This sum will be used to publish an orientation ·booklet on fraterni- ties to be given to the incoming fresh.men. Wednesday at :1,1 a.m., \Art With a Capital A\; Wednesday at 2:30 p.m:, \Introspection -of a Man Who Paints\; Thursday at 9 a.m., \Artists on Art and Nature\; and Thursday at 2:30 p.m~, \Drawings and: Master Drawings\. ca~e. --Earl-Wllson L----------'--------~------~ The council passed a motion to support the Board of Chapel As- sociates ·in its Sunday chapel speaker program. The various fra- ternities will talte turns supplying ushers for the Sunday programs and will have the visiting preach- ers. as their dinner guests. .. Monday meeting in order \to avoid any political implications\ since the purpose of the meeting was that of clarifying the Council's stand on the action It has taken, without contributing in any way to the students' opinions of the candidates. Paul Carbone, who re- mains as permanent secretary of the Council, will preside at the meeting. In a report of the recent \Winter Weekend\ form Social chairman Gerald Parker called the affair a success and suggested that this same sort of weekend may be con- tinued and perhaps become an an- nual \Carnival\. The total expendi- tures were $28.18. Eric Schmidt presented several revisions to the constitutional amendment clar}fylng the absence rule, but action was tabled pend- Ing Inclusion of several more re- visions and a clearer presentation of the amendment. A recommenda- tion on the disposition of Campus Chest funds was tabled until the next meeting. Harp Resigns In old business; a proposal by Jay Cohn that the Council endorse (Continued on Page 4)

2 FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1951 Qinurnr The Custom-ers· Always Write • ... • • • Member Asso~lated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor or the Collegiate Digest. National Adv<>r- tlsing RepresentatJ.ve: Na... tiona! Advertising Servil-e, Tne.. Coll!'gp Publi,hers Representntiv~. 420 1\!adi- \\n Ave .. N. Y. C' Pub- li•he<l ev<>rv Friday of the school year. .l!:ditoria.l Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, S34 State St. Entered in the Schem~c­ tady Post Office as Sec- onrt Class Mall Matter, subscription lOe a copy; $3 year delivered any- where in the United Sta;tes. RESIOR BOAHD JAY N. COHN '62 ...................................... Editor-in-Chief DG:-< liT. C'REGIEH ·;;r ................................ A'suciate Etlitm· MARTIN SI-EGF.:I, '51 ................................ Aesoeiate Editor DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 .......................... Managing Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR '5~ ............................... :-;ews BJ!littir JF:RO-:ITE G.\RT:\'ER '5~ ................................... Page Editor l\!ARVI!'J L. KOHN '53 ................................... Pnge Eclitot• JOHN J. C.\SSITlY '03 .................................. Sports Editor ROBERT C. S~IITH '52 ............................•.... }'eature Editor A~N K. RADACK '52 ............................. Business Manager ROBER1' B. GRI:-.:DLEY '51 ..................... Circulation Ma11aget· Jl'SIOH BOAilD MONROE SIL \'ER:II A:'-1 '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Assistant J.'Pature Editm· LA WREJ);CE W. LEVI:\'F. '53 ......•................. Ex<'hange Editor JO!\EPH K. H.\NflLI':!{ '52 ............... As\istant BuRineRS Manager LEO KUPPER~Cinnn '5~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A>sistaut Bu,ineRs :\Tuna get· GEORGE F. REDTll:>IGTO:-.' '52 ........ Assistant Cir<\ulation Manager I-'EA Tt: RE ST AI•' I-' Thmna~ DuJilou, Pt:tcr F) fu, AlfreU Kh1guu, :.\1y 1:u11 I...:.uuJaT, John 1\loses. ItEPOIL'I'ERS Irwin !Jarg, Phlllir> Beuth, Jamps Carmi<'hael. Alfred lloldl.Jerger, 1\Iartin Gordon, Herbert Hiller, \\'oll\utt IluLLell, :'.lichael ,Kahn, Lt>wt,; Klein. Jerome Rleln. William :.\1ohnn.UIIl, olarttn l'ortnoy, Jlal\l<l ~tulth. ll~r­ bert Spira, Arthur ~tod<man. Daniel \\'eher. I'HOTOORAPJIY !<l'rAFI•' Alan Forman, John Stebbins. !>'rank Skutseh. Bl'Sl!'i'ESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Jan.es fleSol'IJO, Charle6 Little, Ueralu Hoberts, Daniel Slesel, Robert Silverman. CIRCULATION STAFJo' Robert Stranu Horace Van Voast, Ueon,:;e Putman, Curtis Bates, !Javitl Steflanhagen, 'Culver Hayes, J. Towell !Javis, \Villiam Winchester, Joseph l\lartin. Another Explosion Another bombshell was thrown into the already explosive Student Council debate last night, when James Carmichael withdrew from a pt·esidential election which was planned 'in order to give him an oppottunity to l'egain his office. The sudden action threw the entire problem into a turmoil, just when it finally showed signs of straightening itself out. The Council on Tuesday night had hade great strides, whethet· legal or illegal, to let the students resolve the issue. Kow it is once more thrown back to the students, but· in much different fonn. Cannichael h<ts declared that he will not !'Un for presi- dent of the Council again because that ot·ganization is power- less in its present form anrl is unable to accomplish anything. We must ageee with him that the Council has not showed itself capable of perfot·ming any great services recently, although we are not sure that the failure can be blamed entirely on the Council structure. We would not be averse to revising Union's student government to form a smalle!' Council with more effective powers; in fact, such a move might produce a smoother student organization. But the question we ask is \Can such a plan be accomplished successfully in the manner he sug- gests?\ Cannichael seems to think the entire revision could be finished in about two weeks, by a committee of students desiring to work on the plan. It seems that this is a gross underestimate of the job at hand, for what it entails would be the scrapping of a system which has been in effect for many years. If the students decide they want a new o1·ganization, the matte1· must be entered with intent to produce a con- stitution wlJich will not cause t1·oubles latet·. The solution does not lie in quickly dn.lfting a new system, over-throwing the present Student Council and then finding ourselves left with nothing. For Your Information FRIDAY, MAR. 2. Art club, OC, 7-9 p.m.; Schubert club concert, MC. 8:30 p.m. <Tickets at daorl. SATURDAY, MAR. 3. Varsity swimming, Union vs. RPI at Tray, 2:30 p.m.; fo'rP~hman swim- ming, Union vs. RPI at Troy. 4 p.m.; Varsity basketball, Union vs. Trinity at Hartford. 8:30 p.m.; Freshman basketball. Union vs. Albany Business College at Al- bany, 8:30 p.m.; Varsity skiing, Union at Hamilton Carnival; Outing cluz Squat·e Dance, Gym. 8 p.m.; Faculty Men's club party, Hale house. 8 p.m.; California State Personnel Board Exams., CE 303, 1 p.m. SUNDAY, MAR. 4. Sunday service, preacher. The Rev. Douglas Hor- ton. Minister, Gcnt>ral Council, Congregation Chri~tian Churches. New York City, MC, 11 a.m.; Organ Recital, MC. 4 p.m.; Var- sity skiing, Union at Hamilton Carnival. MONDAY, MAR. 5. Daily assem- bly, Student body meeting, MC. noon; Foreign students meeting. OC, 1:30-2:30 p.m.; Mountebanks movie, OC, 4:30, 7 and 11 p.m.; Committee on Economic Educa- tiort, MC. 8 p.m. WEDNESDAY, MAR. 7. Holy Eucharist. MC, 7 a.m. <Father WaltPrs of St. George's). Lenten service, \The Foundattons of Faith\ Silliman hall, noon; :Fr.,.shman swimming, Union vs. Albany Acad.,.my at Schenectady, I p.h.; AlEE <Schenectady Chap- te-r l EE-22, 8 p.m.; <Prof. Ulfert Wilkie, Asst. Professor of Paint- ing, Univet·sity of Louisville be- gins two day visitl. THURSDAY, MAR, 8. Daily as- sembly, Prof. Ulfcrt Wilke, Asst. Professor of Painting, University of Louisville. MC, noon; Fratern- ity night; Mountebanks produc- tion, \The Glass Menagerie\ by Tennessee Williams. 'Theater, Curtain, 8:30 p.m., tickets $1.50 and $1.20 <Faculty members re- quired to pay tax only). ·Early reservations requestE.>d. ' FRIDAY, MAR. 9. Daily assembly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Art club. OC. 7-9 p.m.; Mounte- banks production, \The GJ!ass Menagerie\ by Tennessee Wil- liams. Theater, 8:30 p.m. ----0,--- Dean's Notice Dear Editor: The fact that the Student Coun- cil tool{ the action it did last Tues- day is a definite sign that they were afraid. The student ·body was and still may be an the verge of taking- drastic action con<'erning the student <'ouncil as a whole. The council was well aware ·Of this fact, and in my mind the action taken by them was not an honest attempt to fulfill the desires of the students but was an act of appeasement. If the council was sincere in its desire to ~allow the will of the stu- dents. I do not feel that their ac- tions were jusitfied. The students strongly disapproved the methods used by the counci'l in dismissing me from that body. At this time, I would like to ex- plain rrty feelings concerning the dismissal. I did miss two meet- ings. I ex cused myself from both meetings. which is a power dele- gated to the president of the stu- dent council by the constitution. Furthermore, I did make a definite attempt to contact the secretary of the council both by phone and messeng.er. The messenger, Gene Schwartzman, missed the secre- tary, Jack Fischel, in his room at South College, but he did leave a note in his room. Sa much for m.y absences. The council's actions are of more concern to me in this letter. Our student council con- stitution states that if a member misses\ two consecutive regular m<'etings Without notifying the \chairman of the council\ and ob- taining an excused absence the un- excused absences constitute \auto- matic resignation.\ I do not feel that the council was within its constitutional rights when they dismissed me. It was pretty much of a \di1ty -deal\ throughout. A committee consist- ing of Fischel, <Eric) Schmidt, and (Leslie) Couch interpreted the clause \Chairman of the council\ in the constitution to mean the 'secretary in the case of the ab- sence of the chairman. Nowhere in our constitution or rules of order does it state that the secretary be- comes the chairman in the event of the president's <chairman's) ab- sence. To the contrary our rules of order state that in the absence of \the chairman'!' the \secretary'' shall call the meeting to order and a \chairman pro-tem\ should be elected· immediately. I therefo~e ·believe I was Within my constitu- tional rights, and at the same time even if the council honestly did believe they were right -in the in- terpretation (.or rewordi·ng, as it appears to me) I ,did try to contact .the secretary. Knowing all this the council st:i.lJ -proceeded to vote 15-9 in favor of my dismissal. At that point several of my friends, feeling that the council had made a mistake, started a campaign which resulted in the casting of 231 write-in ba-l- lots at the recent election. Borne of these were -for me personally while others were votes c<J,st against the council. At any rate it showed the council: just where the students stand. The students ieel that the council is a farce and nothing more than a·n honorary so- ciety. I d'an'·t blame anyone for feeling that way because it is the truth. I have been on the council for four years and feel as qualified as a:ny other studen-t on campus in evaluating the couneil. The theory of the councH is fine but that is as far as it goes. In the first place -how many students can actually say that they are represented on the council? Not very many I'm sure. Secondly, the powers of the council are pure figments of the imagination. The constitution states that the duties of the coun- cil are: 1. Primarily to represent the de- sires of the student body to the administration. 2. Setting up effective methods of carrying legislative measures of the student government. S. Allocating funds collected by the student tax. 4. -rncreasing interest in social program and student activities. 5. Representing student conduct and discipline. These are all well and goed but they are not as a whole carried out by the present set-up. In pa:~­ ticular the tax committee is not composed of elected representatives of the students nor is the student discipline committee. As far as representing the desires of the stu- dents to the administration, the present council doesn't have much pull with the administration. In other words, the council is pri- marily a \do nothing\ g:roup. At German HELP Student Plans to Remain in USA By Wolc(}tt Hubbell, Jr. \Friendly and sincere\ aptly describes HELP student Klaus Toepelt from Bresleaw, Germany. His ligh~ humor and easy-going manner has made him a popular figure around the campus despite the fact that his stay here has been short. Rapidly becoming acquainted with American customs and traditions, Klaus, now in this country on a student visa, plans to emigrate to the States as soon as possible. When he arrived in New York <® --,~----------­ City this fall, he was fascinated by the supermarkets; but the sky- scrapers did not impress him in the least. \I was amazed,\ he mar- veled, \to see laborers stoclcing up on enough groceries to last a fam- ily two weeks. In Germany the working class finds it hard to buy sufficient food for one day, and even those that can afford to buy ahead don't have refrigerators in which to keep perishables.\ Toepelt's life, if not always pleasant, has been varied. Although only 14, he was conscripted into the German army. His unit, com- posed of adolescent boys and dis- abled old men, was pitted during the closing months of World War II against the invading Red army. After his military service, Klaus continued his interrupted studies in Bresleaw, but with no specific profession in mind. Even now he is not certain what he wants to do after graduation. \Something active,\ he stated. \No desk jab for me.\ Toepelt is sponsored at Unio.n by a group of former American vet- erans who cover all of his ex- penses except tuition, which is granted him \by the college. Al- though he likes the college very much and is enjoying his studies here, he is bewildered by the fact that classes are compulsory. In Germany university students not only do not have to attend classes but also may hire other persons to take their exams. Scholastic emphasis is placed on secondary study, but general laxness is tolerated in the universities. Photo by Forman Klaus Toepelt Although he likes television, Klaus feels that it is ruining American children; instead of. studying and exercising, they spend countless hours sitting in front of a set excitedly following the daily escapades of Hopalong Cassidy and the likes but accomplishing nothing. \Television in moderation is entertaining,\ he explained; \sports events and good musicals are worth watching, but even they would prove dull after a while.\ the last student body meeting. I gave a report on the activities of the council. My report was sum- med up in three words, \not very much.\ That's just how much the council does do. I do not think however that the blame can .be placed on· the individual members of the council but on the fact that the system of student government here 09- campus needs revision. The ~act that I was elected presi- dent of the student council is a goad example of the inadequacy of the present student government -set-up. The members of the stu- dent council were never in favor of me -for the position of the presi• dency and they never accepted me as such even though the student body had given me a plurality of the votes over three opponents. It was this refusal to accept me as president which·• eventually came to a head in the form of the ab- sence question. Of cGurse I did raise the ive of some of the mem- bers when I made my speech at the last student body meeting. These two facts were the basic issues behind the council's action of dismissing me. The whole mix- up would have been averted under a different set-up of student gov- ernment. Some of the necessary changes for an effective student govern- ment here at Union are: 1. The membership of the stu- dent council be changed so as to decrease the -number of men to a working rather than a debating or- ganization (3 .seniors, 2 juniors, 2 sophomores, 2 freshmen). 2. The tax committee should be composed of the 3 seniors aiJd 2 jurtiors who are elected representa- tives of the people rather than the present set-up of the president and the thi•~e men whom he appoints. 3. The student discipline com- mittee should be composed of the three elected seniors and two juniors rather than the present set-up of the president and two men who he appoints. These are just rough ideas of the changes which are necessary to have true student government. At this time I woUld like to an- nounce my desire to the students to work on a plan to revise the student government so that the students will be represented in the affairs on campus. At the student body meeting Monday I will have a · motion prepared which I will present to the student body, which will in efJ;ect amount to the dis- solving of the present form of stu.- dent government as soon as a new plan and constitution can be drawn up. The motion will include my be- ing apopinted chairman of a com- mittee, composed of all students, including present council members, desiring to work on the plan. The purpose of this plan, in pre- ference to running again for presi- dent, is that I feel if I were re- elected, things would revert right back to where they were. There- fore, if the students are in favor of this idea I hope they will turn .... 'II L. B. BALFOUR 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES • lUNGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATIIER GIFI'I!! STATfONEllY-- PROGRAMs CI,UB l'IN!il - KEYS MEI.l&LS - TROPHniJs Write or rail CARL SORENSEN :to Murray Ave. Watmfcwd, N.Y. PHONE TROY -A.:I)AMS 8-IUI -· GOOD SHOES FOR \STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X\RAY FITTING U6 Slat!\ St.-Since 18911 For Car Troubles See a Uniott Man • aut for the student body meeting Monday and vote yes on my mo- tion~ Sincerely yours, JAMES CARMICHAEL :r. :r. :[. Dear Editer: I wish to an,swer last week's letter of Mr. Leslie Couch and his. remarks which seem to be an- other political instigation on the part of ,the anti-Carmichael caucus. It seems that Mr. Couch is try- ing to WO!:'k up the independents who elected Oat:michael twice· J?.nd will do it 'again. I_ a:tn not a D U- on the contrary, I am one ef the most independent independents. -I co-signed a letter which ap- peared in this coluD:ln two weeks ago and that letter was, as stated, \To give a point of view.\ I, along with many others, campaigned for Carmichael not because of fra- ternal feelings but ·because I want the man I think ·best, the man who was railroaded by a 15 man caucus which think they can tell the stu- dent body what's good for them. Mr. Couch's interpretations were mostc hildish in view of the facts. Sincerely yours, HERMAN OPITZ P.S.-I would like to congratulate the Concordiensis for that front page editorial of last week's paper. It was ·helpful, ()lear, and impartial. Dea:r Sirs: It has at last come to our atten- tion that Mr. Oregier's ·column has be.en disqontinued. We feel that the Editors should reconsider for we have long derived an intense pleasure in perusing his puerile platitudes. It is unfortunate that the Editors do not realize that Mr. Cregier is one of Union's mast unique stu- dents. Now that his column no longer appears, how are we to dis- cover for ourselves what is wrong with the world, the country and the college. For instance until Mr. Cregier mentioned it in one of his columns we were completely un- aware that poor old Union has an archaic curriculum, no traditions and is either a benevolent despot- ism or a totalitarian oligarchy. We certainly hope that it is suffering from neither of these two maladies, especially the latter. We have no idea what a totalitarian oligarchy in a college is, but if Mr. Cregier doesn't like it it must be frig,htful. It is indeed regretable that we must pursue our benighted way without \My Word\ to guide our thought. Sincerely yours, LOUIS GARDNER GEORGE REDINGTON Dear Jay: As chairman of the Winter Weekend Committee I would like to el!':Press my thanks to Nat Allen and his band for their progressive jazz concert in Memorial Chapel and to Bob Grindley, who supplied the piano music for the movie on Satu_rday. Yours truly, JERRY PARKER Serving Union's Men For Yea·rs See your agent on Campus UNI-TED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 State St. near Ferry VICTORIA RESTAURANT • Specializing in Italian Foods Jay Street {Cor. Union) FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 7971 William H. Plath ~~- l\l tl~Ol\~ Auto Service (}\\\\\}j,~AYST.JIWOIRS TUESDAY, MAR. 6. UCCA, MC, 7:30 a.m.; Daily assembly. speak- er, The Rev. Wm. Gold, \Is Man Incurably Religious?\ MC, noon; American Assn. University Pro- fessors, Faculty lounge, 8 p.m. This Saturday, March a; ls the last day that a student may drop a course without penalty. Any stu- dent concerned, should see Mrs; Chariotte Rappelje, I'egistMil', at once. When asked his op1mon of American girls, Klaus shrugged his shoulders and saiq that girls are alike anywhere. \A little more makeup perhaps,\ he observed, \and tao conceited; but they differ essentially from European girls in only one way. In the States, women are independent . . . want to earn their own living, whereas German girls are more the clinging vine type. That is why so many Gis married foreign girls during this past war.\ When he returns to Germany this summer, Klaus will miss the cigarettes and coffee he now en- joys in abundance. He plans to stay there only until he will be allowed to emigrate to this qountry, after which he wants to settle down and concentrate on a family. Until he leaves, Klaus will spend his time learning as much about the States as possible, in order that. he can inform his friends overseas. l.!:::::;: .. =60==1 =U=N=IO=N=S=TR=E:::ET=:::==.J II 166 Jay Street II F b: t'v ir 15 t yt d S] h al ·C< n: a T tl j< h< n· 'li\ l! .8J a· lE s S] tl 'li\ p ( s c s

2, 1951 • meeting my mo- week's and his. be an- on the caucus. is try- and U- of the ap- weeks as stated, t, along for of fra- I want man who caucus .Ute stu- them. ons were the facts. N OPITZ front week's and atten- has feel that for intense puerile Editors is stu- no to dis- is wrong and the Mr. of his un- has an traditions despot- We suffering maladies, have no oligarchy Cregier frightful. that we way our ER Winter like Nat Allen Chapel supplied movie .on pus lA s l91l · .. FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1951 Frosh Quint Loses Fifth Tossin' Around · 8'wimme.rs Seek _Eighth Straight After dropping a 56-50 decision to the RPI frosh Wednesday, coach Sam Hammerstrom's neophyte _ By Don Schwartz -- :: By -Irwin Earg quintet will close out its season to- h morrow night, playing A,lbany All heU has broken loose in the i T e Garnet swimrners travel to Troy tomorrow afternoon Business College in the Capitol basketball :world. What with the:'to. dose the most SllCcessftil switnming season in the history City. In the rough and tumble ~welve Ne.w York City .ball players :()f Union CoUege against RPI. The Engineers edged out the Engineer clash, the Union fresh- mvolved m fiXed· :,Dutchmen, 38_;37, in a thrilling meet last season, but have men held a two point lead at half- t ~S·haem ep·sa, .scotvefr~n! ;'since been weakened by graduation, while Ray Mullane's time, but bowed to a late rally by years, the .foun- : 'eharges have pickEd up considerable strength. the men from Troy. dation o f the · Guthe is Dange.t•ous ~ ---~~~-------- Uni~n Leads a.t Half sport's existence · Tuesday evening, the Union mer- Led by Bob Gilfillan, Hank Kap- has been rocked RPI's ·outstanding threat will meyer, a:nd ~Ed Kramer, Union and the future Of ::probably be Jim Guthe, who has· men encountered little opposition. ' f · 'h u · 't f M h played on even terms with the ·college basltetball :. , been Poly's top diver f:or the past r.om \ e · n1vers1 Y o · assac u-, 13 1 1 d tt I · 1 f\ · h visitors, and grabbed a -· 2 ea b · :: three /Seasons and was: just beaten· se s. n a very c ose m1s , the: may e urepar- . medley relay ·team ~emai'ned unde- at the end of the initial quarter. 1 d d' . by Dick Johnson at the last meet-·. • a b y amage . . I th . l b feated. Reiners, ·Gei'smar, and :In a whirlwind second quarter, Th b .. bl ; , tng. n e speCia ty ·events, · ack- · e ·lg ow up I b t I E St. ark proved th·e wi'nn!'ng combi'n-, Kapmeyer, Gilfillan and Adams th N Y k · stro te and reasts ro te, the ngi-, e e w 0 r h d 1 . neers Jack -strength, H'0wever, Bill. ation. Mitch Jacque set a new pool were hot .for the Garnet, who journals have given t e scan a' record, 2:23, when· he barely n1 ·pped tenaciously held on to a 28-26 lead · h b\ t t Sltiff might give Jerry :Geismar a have made this t e 1gges spar ::~, ·Duffy. Dorse and ·Hancher ·got off .at .the intermission. 1 J J k · race for first place -if Bob Diamond news since Shoe ess oe ac son: continues on the sick :Jist. to flying ·starts and had Jit:Ue Gilfillan opened the third quarter was involved in the rigging of tl1e! trouble in the 50. with a one-bander, and Union man- l919 World Series. Boston University .fell easy vic- . · t d UJU-on Dt\ve~s S\'ee aged to maintain a slight lead . However, the small colleges· are'.. ·im to the Dutchmen last Satur ay, · · • .. P - th · · Hancher scored 69 '' po·nts a d' until Poly's :Zunino tied the sclilre BJble to sit back and politely yawn: as · e Umon sw1mmer.,g turned .. in · · · · 1 r ·n at the entire affair. By small col-' a 51-24 effort. Mu!lane's· men con- Metzger 63.9 points to take one-two at 31-all midway through the· leges, I don't mean schoo!s liltce· tihued to demonstrate their a:maz- in their :specialty. Dorse and Duffy period, RPI went ahead 36-33, but Siena whose .grea.t emphasis of ing recordbreaking ability by set- edged out Jacque in a very close Union surged back on Gilfillan's t , k d Jl' finish in the 100. Dick Cornfoot set and a thJJee pointer by Jerry sports makes them susceptible Le, . mg one new mar an eq ua 1ng t th J h \' ff t d · , was the second of the visitors to Barandes, However, a long outside the disease. But the small college: wo o ers. o n :vu Y urne m . . th t t d . ff t f th ft ' set a new pool record, lowering shot and a free throw by the Tro- w ho has put sports in its proper!· · e ou s an mg e or a e a ·er- · h h t '· th 220 · the ]Jackstroke mark to 2:26.8. jans' Frank Casella gave them the P osition is reasonably immune. . noon w en ' e oo..... · e m . As .on ·. e student commented, \th.e::. 2:25.2 to knock three-tenths of a Reiners and Kloth coasted into a advantage, :39-38, at the quarter's second off his own college record tie. The spotlight was on Geismar, end. colleges have let athletics get so: set against CCNY, ·earJjer this sea- alone, in the breaststroke event Win Going Away out of hand that the tail is now: son. p 1 ·amon'd clipped ~ne and when Diamond' became sick just \ h ' v • Early in the final canto, with wagging the dog. What has ap-' n!'ne-tenths seconds off ht\s own pnor to the meet. Jerry rose ~to· t h Renssel:aer ahead 43-39, the Dutch- pened to CCNY and LIU is th.ei pool record, with a 2:33:6 perform- · e occasion, ·taking first place in. 11 . d . B result of placing athletics so out: ance. his. best time of the season, 2:41.4. men yearlings ra · le agam. aran- T des connected on three consecutive of proportion that there's no stop-, K·Joth\ Dl'amond and .Stark took he visitors had little trouble in G t · th 440 'th c foul tosses, and Sonny . ertzog se ping once the emphasis has begllll: an easy first in the medley relay. I e th ' ;v 1 . . 00 fer taking third. up Gilfillan for a 44-43 Garnet lead. except by abandoning sports en-' Werner Reiners helped the Dutch- n e c osmg re ay, Warren, the After an exchange of field goals, tirely. Witness Chicago University,' men get off to a flying start by Bay Staters' anchor man, nipped the visitors' Casella cut .the cords LIU is, .of course, the extreme: t kl d b d · F,rank Morgan with a strong , a. ng a secon , ehin Duffy, m · stretch drive. Stark, Tomback, and: from 30 feet out for a. two point example. When the college author:i•· the 220. Reinhard, of the visitors, Gross had led off for the Garnet. Poly lead. Cliff Hastings added five ties decided to build up the schoe>l,: took the 50 yard dash, with norse points to the Rensselaer cause to they, did so by lowering their aca- an-d Hancher trailing close behind. wrap up matters, and the Eng~- demic standards and going into, Phil Metzger amassed a total of. Baseball Notice neers won going away, 56-50. tJie market for· purchasing ball-. 65.8 points to win .th.e dive and For the Union frosh, who took . Baseball eoach Art Lawrence players. Since they had to make' Roger Hancher took s€cond place. their fifth loss in seven outings, · h · annO'Ullced. yesterday that all their decision e1ther to emp as1ze. d\d Bob Gi1ftllan was the top scorer athletics or academic standards,. Reinhard Cops Ba.ckstroke chanultdates for Varsity baseball with 16 counters. Kapmeyer, with s o report in the Gym, the latter was very low. Now the Duffy won the 100 yard dash, M da ,.,.._ ch 1 13 points, and Barandes with 10, h I · · b d on y. ,...,.,r 5, at :00 p.m• sc oo IS m a very a way. but Dick Stark had to settle fov Any sopbomOTe candidates for were next best for the locals. Few people ever unde;rstood how' fourth when he developed a slight . Assistan.t Ma.nager of bw.;;eball Casella netted 13 for the winners, City College ever maintained high cramp. Reinhard came back once should repo 1 ·t at the same t!Jme. who made it two in a row over· scholastic standards and turned ag .ain to win the backstrolte event,· 1 Sam Hammerstrom's men. out good basketball teams without while Kloth took secC>nd slot and ~==~==========================il subsidation. They are not nearly Reiners picked up one more point. fi in as bad a position as LIU, but Geismar was second to teammate it is not an enviable spot. Diamond in the breaststroke and I'm sure Salvatore Sa1lazzo never Guy Cooper picked up his first tri- heard of Union College and if he umph of the season in the 440. did, he probably thought is was In the closing event, Reiners, a school for labor leaders. This is Dorse, Duffy, and St.at·k teamed the beauty of having small time up to tie the 13 year ()]d pool reo- athletics with a minimum of sab- ord of 3:51.6, in the 40(} yard re- sidation and an absence of ga.m- Jay. Despite the recor-ds that were blers. The latter have no incen- set, the most impressive thing of tive to rig games where nobody is the afternoon was the .tremendous betting and where attendance con- student· turnout for the meet. The sists mainly of students and their .pool was completely filled with dates. spectators, who stood right up to the water's edge, and many had There is a distinct possibility to be turned away at the door for that college basketball will be re- lack of room. It vvas a fine tri- duced to this level. Union fortun- ·bute to Ray Mullane and his boys ately has persistently maintained for their performan()eS this season. its sensible position in spite of t:he anxiety of many small colleges to enter the big time by buying teams and building stadiums. LANGE & RAPP P·HARMACY .,The College Students Drug Store\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. Not+ Terrace and Stat~ Street FEMININE CONSENSUS: ' ' This scandal, therefore, has very little effect on .us. For that fact we can all be grateful, We ean also afford to chuckle a bit at all the ;fuss made over som(lthing that grew much .too big for its own good, Travel and study ABROAD this summer -~ ~--o,--- Intra Playoffs The regular Intramural bas~et­ ball schedulfl was completed with · today's games, and now enters the.· playoff stage. Two leag,ues, the Western and Northern, saw their playoff representatives sweep thril. F'f.lll-credit ••. atl::..expense ••• university-sports()red .•• study tours \lia TWA their opposition with clean slates- Plan now fo:t this perfect summet! However, the Eastern loop ended Spend half your time sightseeing in in a tie. In the Eastem division, Phi Europe, the other ltal£ in residence Gamma Delta and Alpha Delta study. Tours planned. for this sum- Phi finished with the same rec<1rd mer (4 to 9 weeks) in: SwitZerland. of six wins and one Joss. They 'llllill France, Engla.· n,d, Ireland. Spain, play off for the crown and a finals· berth at 3:0() p.m. tomorrow. ltaly, India and Gerteral European Phi Delta Theta ran away with (.no residence). All air travel by lux- the Western division, do'VInilig urious TWA Comtell:ations. seven straight oppoents. T'11ey For lnformation on tours, mention clinched oc.atters with a 51 - 3 () romp ·countries that interest,you most over runnerup Sigma Chi on MoiL* day. Kappa Alpha,. North. ern. when writing to: John H. Furbay, League champs, needed a last sec-. Ph. D.,. Director, TWA Air World ond basket to stop the second place Ed ti S · SO E 42 d St Half-Pints. The Phi belt-Ka game · uca on erVlce, • . n ., is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. tomor- New York 17, N.Y. . row, in the Gym. The winner .of the Phi Gamm-Alpha Delt con test will meet the winnfll' of that fra.:y for the Intra crown. TRANI WC/IUAIAll/111 SAVE.10% •• -ON FOOD COSTS •• - .. SA.VE10% NOTT RESTAURANT. AND BAR For Quick Take-cui Orders Call Sch.-0•9766 ''Meet anrl Eat at EDDIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Sate ·schenec:tady; N. Y. MEAL TICKETS--$5.50 for $5.00 ARROW SHIRTS are the smoothPst 011 eamprrs! .. Every man looks his best in Arrow sltirts . • made with the best looking, most comfortable collar styles in the country. Mitoga cut to fit perfectly •• , Sanforized-labeled to keep that fit. Piok your favorites here today. GO.IIDON BUTTON-DOWN Crisp white oxford $4 .. 50 \PAR\ WIDESPREAD Fine hl'oadcloth $3.95 NUSBAUM'S 44 7-451 . STATE STREET '------- POll. AP.ROW UNIVERSITY SrYLI!S Union ''5'' Meets Trinity; Rips Poly A resurgent Union College quintet climaxes its hot and cold season this Saturday night against a favored Trinity five at Hartford, Connecticut. The Dutchmen will be seeking their fifth straight win since ending their long losh1g streak. Have Downed Wesleyan Recently the Hilltoppers lost to such squads at H.I.T. and Holy Cross, but defeated Wesleyan, 75-61, the same sq.uad that edged the Nis- tad charges while in the throes of their extended losing streak. Bruno Chistoloni and Charlie Wrinn have paced the Trinity attack so far this year. Coach Pete Nistad will probably counter with the five that has been going so well in the last few con• tests. Tricky Gene Schwartzman will control the pivot, Bob Munay and Roy Pomeroy the forward spots, with Dick Davis and Jim Carmichael in the guard positions. Davis has regained the drive and shooting ability he showed last year in gaining the scoring title. Meanwhile, Ray Pomeroy after getting off to a slow start has been constantly hitting for high figures and holds the high individual total of 28 for the season. Munay, Schwartzman, and Carmichael have been playing fine ball and have come throurh with some key scoring. EnginePrs Blasted This same Garnet five won theit· fourth straight cage victory last Famous Chinese and American Foods LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595 James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street Wednesday night by devastating the R.P:I. Engineers 70-52 in the Alumni Gym. The win was just retribution for an earlier season one point Joss at the hands of the Engineer-s in the R.P.I. field house. The outstanding play of Pomeroy and Davis thrilled a packed house, Pomeroy hitting for a new in- dividual high of 28 points and Davis breaking the 200 mark for .the year with a 20 point effort. Davis, with 201 points to his credit, has far exceeded his high scoring mark of last year. From the outset of the contest there was little doubt of the out- come. The smaller and more ag- gressive Union quintet ran the Ed Jucker charges ragged with their fast brealting play and time after time broke the Engineer's zone de- fense to swish the buckets with their uncanny shooting. .f!olding the R.P.I. to five field goals and five fouls in the entire first half, the Dutchmen ran up an amazing 25 point halftime lead. Davis racked up 16 counters and Pom- CContinued on Page 4) MAKE GRUPPER'S YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR YOUR eGIFTS •WATCH REPAIRING ePENS & PENCILS 1 B5 Jay Street ,- (Next to Fanny Farmer) Serving The Capitol District • Complete Line of Institutional Groceries WGY Food Products Albany, N. Y. I can't turn down a guy in an ABBOW WRITE SBIBT • • • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCIIIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS

4 FRIDAY, ;MARCH 2, 1951 1\Tot. t Ran·. L' o· t-t· er· ·y\ .:ls_Webb Basketball Janis.Jazz ·Group Two·WinChesties' 1 \' ' w· ·n· B' At c· I· The l'esults of the fourth; Basket~ S f . (Continued from. Page 3) l 1 • ; •. e . Ire e ba:ll Score Guessing' Contest have Tt B .ld D : ·a . e or eroy 12 in the iintial half to lead be ~n u d b H K · ' · Conrad J. an is and. his Ta!lgate .. e n ~ no nee · y arvey ro- o U l . . 0 rms . · · . the Union offense. . . k \h t. fl ld · · · Ja..zz band will b~ at the. Circle Inn. me , \' es er e ' ca;rnpus repre- . : , · · . Dutcbinen Coast to Victory Sanday afternoon t)le lth of March sentalive. The winners, who re\ ~s · d'\' With Pomeroy finding the hoop froom. s to 7 p.m. with a concert ceived a carton of. Chesterfields, By Myron J(omar and Thomas Donlon . : o·un . ! with his ·one banders in the third sponsored by the Jazz Appreciation were Mal'shall Huberman and If there. are any highly moral students rooming-in Nt>rth • ·stanza the Garnet still maintained. S~ciety of Schenectady. The Janis Judah Roher. The contests, which or South College, don't let them read this. Esp· ecially if they. ·Considering intrepidity one of a huge lead. The final period!. ba.nd was the 'Winner of the fi.rst were ·sponsored by the Concordien- . the manly vi 1 ,tues of life, this re-: showed the determined Poly squad an.nu.a;J: \Record ·Changer\ amateur sis and the Chesterfield Represen- are agamst gambli:pg. For the very walls Which shelter them. porter descended the stairs of the initiating a full court press. and ja:z~ band contest. -tative 1 were concl11ded .with the from the icy blasts of the Mohawk are the fruits of that old ' library in orde:r that the mysteri- outscoring the Union second stringo ~ickets· for· the affair ca;n be had . Union•RPI gani.e on February .28,. primeval, urge of man, the urge to take a chance. '· ous .sounds emana:ting! from the ers 1:&:7, but the final count found frdl)l Tip. 'rower .. This startling bit of information w safe might .boe investigated. the Dutchmen well on top by a .--------------• t h d b t For many davs students study1\ng · 70 - 52 sco:ve. Joe Bulner, who en- wa~ unear. e Y your rep or er. s Nott for the return of what ·they \ tered the f · th d h lf. · We Have Them if Hs Slacks or P·ants ·. · h 1 1 ld d in the basement of the library were · · · ray ln ·e secon a •· w I e. pour ng over o recor s In claimed were overpayments of lot- toppe\'· th T · ' · · \th th L b It th t ltept from f:Llling.· into· the arms -of '-'' · e · roJans scormg Wl e 1 ra. ry_. see_ms a our re- tery funds to the college. The. nine · oint 1 \th Ed D il • d P d t El h 1 t N tt b Morpheus by constant 1mockings P s a ong Wl · ··a ey. · v~re l-es_ 1 en 1P a e . 0 ' • . e- wo1·thy gentleman not only won . The· previous Saturday :Oick: · sides runnmg the ,co !leg~, mvent~ng this suit, refuted these claims, but stemmmg from the Fred Bronner. Dav:is led the Garnet to a '58-52' a stove tHE DID.l, and reformmg personally sued .them for money.· Research Laboratory. Not even · t th H 'It C t• · th f t t h h d \Petrouch. ka\ was .able to soothe· v 1 c ory over e anu 011 on !n- ose un or. una es w o a vun taken in by the lottery o\.er d' entals w\th t o· · t • 'th fi 1 f I f h h I t• t d d • an those troubled minds. · 1 en P m s m e· na a ou o t. e .sc ? as 1c san ar. s above the $200,000, winning a large:, stanza, after the opponents had o.f other mstltutlons, ~lso found portion of this. After descending to the lower led most •of the way. This was the time to conduct a lucrative lottery, Th 0 se angry rumblings in the , sub-basement an(! wading through third. straight win for the Nistad whose tang1bl~ results are the hal- legislature were reawakened by the fifty some odd volumes of \Die . five and· the thirteenth straight · lowed walls of Old North and Old lawsuits, and grew louder with the Grosche Politik,\ the entrance to loss for the Continental squad. South. years. Finally, in 1848, the legis-. the vault was reached whereupon The Hamilton five held a .slight ·. 26 \Yt>ars of Lotteries lature, incited by those wishing, to not even the barbed wire strung ec;lge throughout .the contest until. Now, this does not mean that the discredit Dr. Nott and Union, about the entrance could dampen Da.vis tied the count with a field guy who orga:nizes the crap game started an investigation. The main· this hardy .s:pirit, After a cursory b-asket and foul at 50-50, halfway in your donn is a future college point, they discovered, was that Dr .. examination of the situation it was in the final quarter. A few min. president, but it just goes to show Nott had kept the money won in discovered ·that the safe door was utes -later Davis duplicated ·this the great lengths to which Dr. Nott the lawsuit of 1834 in .a separate locked and the combination was feat to put the Dutchmen ahead to would go to secure something for account under his own name. Slurs not producing the desired results. stay. The Continentals had led at his beloved Union. And, while th~ were cast on the aging president, During the week prior to Found- the half 31-28 and had a like ad~ lotteries (there were two or three, and accusations were made that er's Day the libra.ry staff had been vantage going into the final ·frame. running over the period of years he had built his summer home busily occupied in removing many 1805-183rl were perfectly legal in with these proceeds. <He certain~ of the -seward a.rchives from the every way, the usual involvments ly n~eded a cool retreat while the safe when quite by accident a To DiSCUSS Projects arose when the money started com- heat was on.) member of the staff had shut the The Physics Society will meet on ing in, and the reputations of Dr. From here on in, the story reads safe on his way upstairs for tea Monday evening, March 5, at Nott and Union sank to their low- like the fiction of the period, for· and crumpets. Since then, the safe 7:80 p.m. In the physics lecture est ebb. the hero was vindicated, and went has not been opened even when room. Various speakers will dis- To start at the beginning, when on to live the memory of the scan- faHing under the compulsive cuss the senior research proj~cts. Dr. Nott took over as president in dal into the ground. It seems that wheedlings of Mrs. Smith and her .All physics majors, especially 6th 1805, Union owned considerable Dr. Nott, while holding the money expert crew of safecrackers. Hence term men, are urged to attend, land in the area 01.1.tside the city, in his name, had been using it sole- the explanation l)f the noises. but lacl!ed the necessary money to ly for purpo:>es necessary to the But this reporter senses a foul develop it. <Probably didn't have growth of the college, and had in plot afoot. Gne week ago Helmer enough alumni yet.> Turning to fact, been making reports to the Webb, cust.odian of the Nott the state, he secured permission to Trustees on every use of the mausoleum, -was scheduled to leave conduct a lottery, which was to money. The good old \Father of for England wbere he was to make bring in $80,000. Engaging some the Mother of Fraternities\ (one a thorough investigation of taste agents to handle the details of the we made up ourselves, fellas) prob- discrepancies between .American lottery, he sat back and waited ably had many a chuckle in his d'S- and English crumpets. It was un-, for the dough to pour in. It did. clining years over the whole thing. derstood that he would notify the But the War of 1812 and other o--- library staff <>f his whereabouts. minor mishaps made these funds Student Council and findings, But Helmer Webb insufficient to cover the necessary has not been heard· from. expenses. Once again the state <Continued from Page l) Noises in the cellar safe? No came through, and a new lottery the plan to include the names of report from Helmer Webb? Could was begun, this time to raise $200,- instructors with the course list- be, could be. ~-------- -·---, SAVE .10% : on · leading Brands of ; WALLPAPERS I . HARDWARE I PAINTS & VARNISHES I HOUSEWARES I CAPITOL PAI·NT : & 'HARDWARE co. I . B. V. D. washable rayon gabardi·ne 1000 .pairs to pick from - ROC'HESTER PANTS S1'0R~ (Nev Location) I ·15 BROADWAY between State and Smith Ferro's Restaurant S :port Shirts 4.95 ... Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE FERRO . • Proprietors · 1115 Barrett St. • Specializing in . IT ALlAN-AMERICAN FOOD Phone 6-9554 GAZETTE PRESS Printers 000. The buildings wcrP finished ings in the college catalogue was while the lottery was running, and passed. In correspondence, a letter ali looked like clear sailin!!. for was read from Elwyn Harp, sopho- Union. CDr. Nott got so enthused more representative, tendering his he worked out a new system for resignation due to his having to the lottery. and, inventor that hP attend Naval Reserve meetings F~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;n.; 726 State St. Ph. 4-8393 : -·------ --·- ----. ~~~~~~~~g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PHOTOSTATS DRAFT:ING SUPPLIES was, patented it.) each Tuesday night. Salting Away Profits The proposed amendments to the And then the roof caved in. The Student Tax Committee constitu- agents, who had been in complete tion were submitted to the Council charge of the lottery through the Constitutional Committee for proof- years. due to Dr. Nott's many other ing and revision. Frederick Conklin duties, had been salting away more was appointed Social Chairman to than their legal percentage, and in replace Gerald Parker. 1826 found themselves unable to meet the demands of the holders F• t A•d c of the winning tickets. $1oo,ooo IrS I ourses had to be raised immediately. Angry rumblings came from the legislature in Albany. and the fu- ture looked dark. Rising to the occasion, Dr. Nott quickly raised the necessary funds from a more or less philanthropic Albany busi- nessman. Lacking anything of his own which could be used for secur- ity for so large a sum, he used the one thing nearest at hand which was sufficient. And so Union found itself moraga,:ed to the tune of the $100,000 needed. (Which goes to show that the Albany gentleman was perhaps less phil- anthropic, for the College was worth more than $200,000 as it stood.) D~tor N ott sued With the money, the lottery was saved, and the note was repaid. However, from then on. opposition to thP lottery grew, and in 1831. it was abandoned. Union had its buildings and was financially secure. The story should end here, but greater calamities were to come. In 1834, the ex-agents sued Dr. When was the last time you had a good cup of coffee? • Come to the Courses in first aid and stretcher bearing will be offered Union students in the near fu- ture as part of the civilian de- fense program on campus, it has been announced by Dr. Al- exander Arony, who is in charge of the medical aspects of the college's Civilian Defense Com- mittee. FRANK FERRARO Wholesale & Retail Fruits & Produce 1231. CRANE STREET SCHENECTADY PHONE 6-1763 r~--~:::~:::-::~-~~::~-- Specials J 60c and up I HOME FOOD I CAFETERIA . i Downstairs next to Wallace's t t Open 7 A.M. to 7 P.M. L-~-------~-~-----~ K & E KER~. BRUNING • HAYDEN Photocopy ' • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, tool Jay Jewlery Co. STATE RESTAURANT 523 State St. • GENERAL HARDWARE • Substantial Meals Reasonable Prices Good Service • HOUSEHOLD GOQ[)S • PAINTS David Mahoney Company 209 State St., ·Phone 3-3()'91 129 S. Brandywine Ave., Phon. 3-3692 DESK LAMPS Adjustable Incandescent and Fluorescent • SAVE SUPPLY CO. 501 State St. PHONE 6-4193 . rwo enllre communllles haV4 voted .to let G·E Dloposalls ·lak:e care of tholr.garbaga. Young.G-E engineer Gordon Ronay (R;P ;1_, '36) hao supervised lnstotlatlor.o. SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET NoVI olrools can be lighted by G-E lluoroscent lamps. The four lamps In oach·f>xlure produce 19;000 lumens of llgl.t. · New G-E electronic traffic control automatically adjuots lime llghls sta.v red or green lo Accom, modale grealeillralflc flow. These G~E developments are bringing a \New Look\ to American communities . ' Jasper, Indiana, has i:l~ garbage col- revolutionized Denver's down• lection any more. It now gets rid town system of traffic-light controls. • of garbage by. letti:ng G-E Dis- The new system counts passing posall® food-waste -units grind it cars and automatically varies the up and flush it down the drain. A length of time that red and green young G-E engineer who has spe- lights stay on, thus adjusting the cializedinDisposalls supervised the lights to changes in the traffictlow. installation and is now starting a These are a few examples of the similar job for Herrin, Illinois, exciting new .projects that are challenging young G-_E engineers In Detroit, G-E engineers have today. General Electric's leadership installed something ne-w in street· in ·research and engin?ering makes lighting-fluorescent street lamps. it a plaee where college graduates Their light is brighter, less glar• a_re finding increasing opportuni- ing, and will make driving safer. ues to engage in highly interesting Still other G-E ex:pe:rts have and satisfying work. Cjou C'U/7t ~rae r:o,Ytik:e _in_ -G E N E R A L • E L E CT R I C \ ~ ( ] ] ] e ( ( c t

I 1951\ . ln it~J B!!-Cb.erll .on the lllevel, ln local •e than system w9men en, ac• instruc- lg! th:~t nee be-. 1re -Is a 1, iliiillill •• ·• • • , . ... . •• •• •• :• •• •• • , . • • ,. • •• • •• • • • • • • •• •• • • • • • • • •• •• • • ,. • :• ,. ·• •• •• • •• •• •• • •• •• •• :• •• ·····' - Page Two- Many Letters Of Interest Vol. 78. No. 13 FBunded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., 'FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1951 • -··- .... -,..-~- Page Three- Winter Sports In Revue PRICE 10 CENTS Revisions Aske,d Fo,r At Meeting Scene· From \'Glass Menagerie\ Union Adopts Summer Acceleration Program -------~--- <$> Union College wi:ll operate on an optional accelerated sum- .A resolution was adopted to re- . vise the basic set-up of the student governm~nt or-ganization at Mon- day's student body meeting in Memorial Chapel . The resolution ·was put to a vote at the insistence of James Car- michael who wished to .see if the . students favored such a change. Carmichael had earliel' introduced a motion to appoint a committee to make a complete revision of the organization. :Motion Tabled: ·Photo by Stebbins Eric Schmidt, in opposition to Carmichael's motion, argued· that there is already a constitutional committee .functioning within the Coun-cil to rewrite the Constitution .. Gerald Parker was elected president of the Student Counen yesterdny aSternoon in an un- cere:monlous, UllOOntested ele& tion held in the Dutchmen's Part of the ~t of the current Mountebanks produ.ctio11, ·\The Glass Menagerie\ are caught in a scene from Tennessee Williams drama. Left .1;0 right are Elaine Glunder, as Amanda Wi11gfield; :Ann Marie Smith, as Laura; and Don -Doherty, as Tom. The play, which opened' last night, will continue tonight and Saturday aild will be presented again next Thursday .through Saturday. Rathskeller. O~ly a. h~mdfw. of 1 M b k E l !=:~e~:s~=.:~d~~; , ·· ounte an .·~ · xce In . as llll formality a.fter James <Ja.:r.. -~c-~the_ 1 hraoo_a.d _:'\'_t ::_ee:._!mse_H 'Drama of Simple Life .A motion was made by Donald· By Prof. Carl A. Niemeyer Schwartz to table the motion until There is a professional po1isb on the Mountebanks' the committee made its report or. current production of Tennessee Williams' \Glass Menagerie.\ at least before the Spring elecion, Maybe working with the visiting actor, Don Doherty, brought. It was passed by a close v.ote. out the best in the other members of the cast. If so, he is Parker then appointed Car- h 1 michael, John Kennedy, and Her- t e more we come to the production. man Opitz to the Council's Con-. But one had a feeling that even ~ --------·------ stitutional committee, whi<lh is without him Miss Glunder would headed by Schmidt. Carmlchael have made an unusually mature then received the cooperation of .Amanda, Miss Smith an appealing, Jay Cohn, editor of the Concord!- Laura, and Mr. Heimann a. con- ensis, to publish reports of the vincing gentleman caller; for the committee's .progress. Montebanks have probably never given, at least in this reviewer's Essay Prizes Are Offered time, a more finished production.· Set Catches ~od If someone is heard complaining that in a Union College production Mr. Heimann was the only Union College actor, he should remember Entries for both the Van Orden to give proper credit ·to those and Allen Prizes must be sub· whose work is done without the mitted to Professor Harold Blod- audience being aware of their gett, chairman of the Department physioal presence. There is George of English, not later than April 18. Carter's set for instance, which anc:i no· knowledge; they hav:e only feelings, which are forever bruised and forever sensitive. 'I'hey lack both purpose and importance. Yet they al'e so real· as Mr. Williams presents .them that one sees with a shock that one has known them always and never observed, until an. artist came along to tell us, their emptiness. Here are no endings with a bang, on.ly the sad whimpei\s of a.lmost unbearably pathetic and lost peo- ple. This may sound like unpromis- ing material, but there was no do>ubt that the opening night au- dience liked it. Perhaps in a less skillful production the play would. turn out to be just a bore . .As long as the Mountebanks do such a good job we shall never know. Properties Resold Union~s Rea:l Estate cor- por~.tion has resold six store properties to Allied Stores Corporation, it was announced yestel'day. Involved in · the transaction were large stores · in Bost·on, Syracuse, Harris- burg, Pa., Akron, Ohio, and Dallas and San Antonio, . Texas. Purchased in 1945 Union purchased the property. from Allied Stores for $16,150,000 · and then contracted to lease back. the .property to Allied. Thus Union would . receive the rent and the property would be tax exempt. However, the new tax law of 1950 eliminated the tax exempt status of commercial property pur- chased with borrowed money by educational institutions. Therefore· Union's Real Estate Corporation, which does not have sufficient as- sets to pay the assessed taxes, was forced to sell the property baak to Allied Stores. Ca.sh Involved Arthur C. Hallan, secretary-treas- urer of .Allied announced the trans- action and said that a l<trge cash settlement was involved. However, he declined to give any further de- tails. Frank Bailey, treasurer of Union, refused to comment on the transaction beyond stating that it had taken place. Union had a similar arrange- ment of ownership and lease with .Abraham and Straus of Brooklyn, but. sold that property back to its original ownel' several weeks ago. 0 Anderson Ill, Resigns Post Professor James J. Anderson, as- sistant professor of government. has resigned from the faculty due The Van Orden Prize is awarded catches so surely the lower middle- to a freshman for excellence in class horror oi a St. Louis flat, yet class work, and especially for an is interesting to look at. There is essay on one of two assigned the neat job of lighting, in a play topics. The topics for this year in which effective lighting is un· are: (l) An Appraisal of L!ferary usually impor.tant. There is the Criticism as Practiced in Current precesion of timing in the stagP American . Journals, and (2) A management, which we are now Study of the Pt·oletarian Novels of learning to take for granted in the John Steinbeck Montebanks' productions. Back of S • s to ill health, it was announced yes- JteS To peak terday by President carter David- At Sunday Chapel so~.rofessor Anderson. who has The essays ,should be not less all, of aourse, is Mr. Jones' direct- than 2500 words and, in using b h 1 d printed !P!l,~ril:tls, the essayist. ing, which has ot clar ty an · · been foi\ced to be absent from The speaker at the .Sunday morn- many of bis classes in the past two ing service at 11 a.m. in Memorial weeks. will go to Washington for Cha.pel will be the Rev. William treatment. K. Sites, His classes will be taken for the should not rely too heavily on nuance. At present :Rev. Sites is the As- rest of the year by Professors A. lengthy quotations. Books are listed in the libl'ary under the authors concerned and no 'bibliog- Attains Reality sistant Chaplain at Colgate Uni- K. Davis, Douglas Campbell and The play is about the kind of versity. Interestingly enough, he Joseph Rotundo. raphy is necessary. people you forget, the kind of .pea-· graduated from college as an elec- Professor Anderson was gl'ad- ple who are hnportant only to trical engineer, before he decided uated from Cornell in 1934 with an themselves. They have no wisdom to enter the ministry. Students .A.B. degree. He received an M.B.A. Each essay must ·be signed by a pen name ·with the t!'ue name of the writer .placed in a sealed en- Albright to Have velope accompanying the essay. and. faculty ate urged to attend degree from Harvard in 1936 and the service, for Rev. Sites is being a Ph.D. from Cornell in 1940. He ~onsidered as Union's next chap- came to Union in 1946 as an as- The Allen Prize is awarded for ·Arti.Cl· e Published the best three essays on any sub- ·Jaill. sistant pro:fessor of government. An article by Dr. Frank P. Al- ject, submitted by members of the :;~enlor .class. Details may be secured from Pr()fessor Blodgett. of art at U~ion, will soon appear It . mer session this year in accordance with the emergency pro- posal drafted by the Committee on the College Calendar and approved by the Faculty Council Tuesday. Prize Plan Discussed Consider Detailed Report Courses will run 10 and 12 weeks · and will enable entering Freshmen to complete two of their five fresh- man subjects in the period from July 2 to September 8. Upper-class- men will also be able to take two full-year courses during a 12-week Plans were made for the begin- session extending f1·om June 18 to ning of the annual job of selecting September 8. at the Boal'd of Managers meeting The Council approved the plan Monday night. after consideration of a detailed Committee Formed nine-page report which included the results of a questionnaire sub- A committee was formed to apor- mit ted to over 500 students.' The tion keys to men in each tax-sup- l'eport set forth five major plans ported activity on campus. An- on acceleration which embodied all other committee was formed to possible methods fiJrseeruble by the draft a certificate to be presented committee after exhaustive study as a minor award to men not on the problem . qualifying for keys. Both awards are limited to men in the sixth, Chose Least of Evils seventh and eighth terms . The Board also discussed the The problem, according to Pro- honor list, which is to be a pub- fessor Harold A. Lal'rabee, chair- licized list of all students who par- man of the committee, was one of ticipate in five activities and main- choosing the least of several evils. tain in index above 3.0. The Board Quoted in the body of the report voted that men on this list must of the committee was a recent re- have two restricted activities port by President Conant of Har- among the five. vard from which this exerpt seems to clarify the position of Union To Choose Assistant College. \ ... if the colleges make .Another committee reported that only those adjustments necessary they are in the midst of choosing for the present degree of emer- a new student assistant to the co- · gency, and the catastrophia blow ordinator of student activities. should fall, these institutions would They have reviewed he records of be hardly less ready to play their all the members of the sophomore part in the desperate conflict than class and have .narrowed the if the inevitability of World War choice down to three students, who III had been initially assumed,\ will be interviewed before the final Professor Larrabee emphasized decision is made. that the committee attempted to IFC Finds Monies Less The Interfraternity Counc:ll, at Its meeting Tuesday night, heard a revised financial report which stated that there was only $158.69 in the treasury. This figure is $185 Jess than the sum previously re- ported because the IFC owed the Student Tax Committee monies It borrowed to sponsor the fall prom. The present treasury balance is not sufficient to publish a fratern- ity orientation, booklet the size of last year's publication. The coun- cil discussed the possibility of pub- lishing a smaller booklet. President Martin appointed a committee to investigate printers' bids. The delegates discussed the pos- sibility of having the IFC sponsor a social project. They considered the painting of hospital rooms or the home of a needy family and helping the loaal Boy's Club 'build a playground. Roger Fenwick of the Philo- mathean Society announced that the group's annual debate tourna- ment will be held April 2-6. A cup will be awarded to the winning team. ---o·~·~-- adopt a form of acceleration while maintaining the college's two semester program, all extracur- ricular activities apd, in general, fitting acceleration in to the pre- sent calendai·. Need Emphasi2ed. The need for acceleration was emphasized by the results of the questionnaire which revealed that out of the 560 students polled, ap- proximately 35% were interested in attending a summer session. About half of the total number questioned stated that they could not afford to attend summer session. Sum- mer session attendance cannot be accurately predicted, however, un- til final word is issued by the fed- eral government on the draft situ- ation of college men. The plan as it stands now will enable some present Juniors to finish college in February of 1952, if they attend summer session and take six courses next fall. There Is also the possibility of having five-hour math and ROTC included among the summer courses offered if there is a de· mand for them. Courses of more than three hours credit may be !riven on a semester basis during 10 or 12 weeks, provided that the students who take them agree to pursue an accelerated program which may be prescribed. Civil Defense Aid Course Seheduled bright, chairman of the department • Ph;lo's Sp·onsor Debate in. a book entitled, \Studies In · C} th\ D • Honor of David N. Robinson/' be- On Legalt.zed Gamblt.ng 0 . Ing rive Days, Hours Indefiniw The number of days a week and the length of class periods Is to be determined by the dean. The ol'iginal plan, however, called for a six day week for freshmen, with periods lasting 80 minutes, and eithel' a five day week, with 80 minute periods, or a six day week, with 70 minute periods, for upper- classmen. ing edited by Washington Univer- sity, St. L?uis~ . . The Philomathean. Society will~ Starts on Campus . Dl'. ~lbr~ght s con~r1bubon to, ~he sponsor the next in its popular collection IS an article concernmg 1 .series of Parliamentary debates on Two debate teams will particip- The liaison committee, in cooper- A com]Jrehenslve two-week a seco~d century a.d. roman re-. 'Tuesday evening, March lBth. The ate in ten debates at the New ation with the Student Council, course in ·first aid .and stretaher production of the famous piece of· t . \R ol d T,_ t G mbl'ng York City conference this weekend opened its annual clothing drive b i ' I t• t t . di 1 t \H \ b P \t 1 op!cs, es ve ua a 1 t B 11 C 11 d h ·1 t W d d M h 7 'I'h ear ng 1n rea ton o a om1c s- scu p ure, ermes y l'axi e es, Should Be Legalized\ will be de- a root yn o ege, un er t e au- as e nes ay, arc . . e aster will be ,presented on April 2 tauryGreBekcsculptor of the fourth cen- .. ba. ted by Prof. Hai\old A. Larra- spices of the Philomathean So- boxes for the clothes have been and April 9 at 7:30 p.m. in the ciety. .An affirmative team of placed at Silliman Hall where all gymnasium. The .R.oman. copy of the Greek bee, ~hairman of the department Roger Fenwick and Don Guder contribUtions will be gratefully ac- The course, arranged by the original is at present in the Psi of phlioso~hy, and Prof. A~thur K. and a negative team of Ralph cepted. Unipn College Committee on Civil Upsilon ·fraternity house at Union· Da.vls, chauman of the department Fdedbauer and Lawrence Levine· .A mission in India has been. Defense, will •be taught hy Dr. College. of sociology.. . · wilJ take the trip along with Prof. chosen this year as the main bene- Alexander Arony, coilege physician,. o Prof: Davts, seconded by Lau- Erwin Von Schlicten. factor of the drive. The Student and Sgt. Bernard Max, of the: Siesel to Head M'banl\.S ·, renee W. Levine, will take the af- Council received a letter from Rev. A ·FROTC staff, an4 is open· ·to .all firmative, and Prof Larrabee, with Union won one of three debates D l N S t · 1 t · k · th · · Schlooz, director of the missions,. Students. It \'ill be taught with• . e aney . e'v ' ecre ary Klaus Epple!', the negative. . as wee m . eir trip to· Boston, \b ~· d b t' th t · \R 1 d descr1 ing the poor state of the the aid of movles and is designed Daniel Siesel, a sophomore, was Don Bunce, tra~;~sfer student · e a Ing on e oplc, eso ve group. The drive will close April 9. foi' emergency aare immediately elected ·pres(Qent of the Mounte- :from St . .AndreWs University, will that .the Non-Communist Nations 0 after atomic attack. · banks this week. at a general mem- act as clerk of the -bouse. The de• Should Form a New International Students C()mpletlng the tra,ining bership meeting. He replaces · bate will begin at 8 p,m; in Old OI~ganization.\ . . German Club Elects will be aqded to the Schenectady Richard Heimann, Chapel and the meeting will be The negative team of Monrc;>e Officers of the German Club County voltinteei• lh!t for ·Civil de-·· William Delaney was elected open to speeches from .the floor Silverman and Levine. won over · wei·e elected Tuesday night at a fehse and wlll be used' whenever . secretary of the dramatics group. after .the formal debate. A vote on Ha!'vard while the affil'mative meeting in the Rathskelle1·. They neaessarY• The pi\ofp.'a is set up Members of the Executive Council th.e issue will be taken at the be- team of Klaus Eppler and Fried- • include AlVin Wolfson, president; . to prepai\e students to be of serVice ·are· William· Brandow, Irwin Barg, giiming of the meeting and an- bauer was defeated by Hmvard's· • Theodore Hutton, vice president; both at Union: and in their home Mark Aran.off, Nathaniel Allen anq other one wm bee talten before negative team and by Wellesley and Patriclt Fugazzotto, secretary- towns. • · Herbert R.ie. !idjournment. ·College. . treasure!', The committee of faculty mem- bers that drafted the emergency proposal consisted of Professor Larrabee, chairman; Professor Walter Lowen of the Division of Engineering, Professor Harold E. Way of the Division of science and Professol' D. Richard Weeks of the Division of Humanities. Quazy Quote The stork is charge with a lot of things which should more prop • (lrly be blamed on a lark. -Skipper

1961 in its eachers on the level, in local than system women ac- instruc- that nee be- is a ••••• Ill • II • • • • • • • • • • • • • • = Ill • • • • Ill • II • • • Ill Ill • • • Ill • • • • • • • Ill • • Ill • Ill • • • li • • • • ~ Co. i I Page Two- Many Letters Of Inte1·est Vol. 78, No. 13 Revisions Asked For At Meeting· A resolution was adopted to re- vise the basic .set-up of the studeRt government organization at Mon- day's student body meeting in Memorial Chapel. The resolution was put to a vote at the insistence of James Car- michael who wished to see if the students favored such a change. Carmichael had earlier introduced a motion to appoint a committee to make a complete revision of the organization. Motion Tabled Eric Schmidt, in opposition to Carmichael's motion, argued that there is already a constitutional committee functioning within the Council to rewrite the Constitution. Page Three- Winter Sports In Revue Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY:, N.Y., FRH)AY. MARCH 9, 1951 PRICE 1 0 CENTS Scene From \·Glass Menagerie\ Photo by Stebbins Part of the cast of the current MoWltebanks production, \The Glass Menagerie\ are caught in a scene from Tennessee Williams drama. Left to right are Elaine Glunder, as Amanda Wingfield; Ann Marie Smith, as LalU'a; and Don Doherty, as Tom. The play, which opened last night, will continue tonight and Saturday and will be presented again next Thursday through Saturday. Union Adopts Summer Acceleration Program ----------- ----·- ~ Union College will operate on an optional accelerated sum- Properties Resold Union's Real Estate cor- poration has resolrl six store properties to Al'lied Stores Corporation, it was announced yesterday. Involved in the transaction were large stores in Boston, Syracuse, Harris- burg-, Pa., Akron, Ohio, and Dallas and San Antonio, Texas. Purchased in 1945 . mer session this year in accordance with the emergency pro- , posal drafted Ly the Committee on the College Calendar and approved lJy the Faculty Council Tuesday. Prize Plan Discussed Plans were madt> for the begin- ning of the annual job of selecting at the Board of Managers meeting Munday night. Committe\ Formed Consider Detailed Report I 1 Courses will run 10 and 12 weeks 1 and wHI enable entering Freshmen to complete two of their five fresh- man subjects in the period from July 2 to September 8. Upperclass- men will also be able to take two full-year courses during a 12-week session extending from June 18 to September 8 . The Council approved the plan after· considet·ation of a dPtailed nine-page report which included the results of a questionnaire sub- mitted to over 500 students. The report set forth five major plans on acceil'l'ation which embodied all possible methods forsceable by the committee after exhaustive study on the problem . Chose Least of Evils Gerald Parlter was elected president of the Student Council yesterday aftemoon in an un- ceremonious, uncontested elec- tion held in the Dutchmen's Bathskeller. Only a handful of votes were cast during the after- noon in the balloting held only as a formality after James Oar- michael had remm'ed himSelf from the race l:ast week. Mountebanks Excel ln . Drama of Simple Life Union purchased the property from Allied Stores for $16,150,000 and then contracted to lease back the property to Allied. Thus Union would receive the rent and the property would be tax exempt. However, the new tax law of 1950 eliminated the tax exempt status of commercial property pur- chased with borrowed money hy educational institutions. Therefore Union's Real Estate Corporation. which does not have sufficient as- sets to pay the assessed taxes, was forced to sell the property back to Allied Stores. A committee was formPd to apor- tior. keys to men in each tax-sup- ported activity on campus. An- other committPe was formed to draft a certificate to be presented as a minot' award to men not qualifying for keys. Both awards an• limited to men in the sixth. seventh and eighth terms. The Board also discussed the hono1· list, which is to be a pub- licized list of all studPnts who par- ticipate in fivr activities and main- tain in index above 3.0. The Board votrd that men on this list must have two restricted activities among the five. The problem, according to Pro- fessor Harold A. Larrabee, chair- man of the committee, was one of choosing the ]past of several evils. Quoted in the body of the report of the committee was a recent re- port by President Conant of Har- vard from which this exerpt seems to clarify the position of Union College. \ ... if the colleges make only those adjustments necessary for the present degree of emer- gency, and {he catastrophic blow should fall, these institutions would be hardly less ready to play their part in the desperate conflict than if the inevitability of World War III had been initially assumed.\ A motion was made by Donald Schwartz to table the motion until the committee made Its report or at least before the Spring elecion. It was passed by a close vote. Parker then appointed Car- michael, John Kennedy, ar.d Her- man Opitz to the Council's Con- stitutional committee, which is headed by Schmidt. Carmichael then received the cooperation of Jay Cohn, editor of the Concordi- ensis, to publish reports of the committee's progress. Essay Prizes Are Offered Entries for both the Van Orden and Allen Prizes must be sub- mitted to Professor Harold Blod- gett, chairman of the Department of English, not later than April 18. The Van Orden Prize is awarded to a freshman for excellence in class work, and especially for an essay on one of two assigned topics. The topics for this year are: (1) An Appraisal of Literary Criticism as Practiced in Current American Journals, and (2) A Study of the Proletarian Novels of John Steinbeck. By Prof. Carl A. Niemeyer There is a professional polish on the Mountebanks' current production of Tennessee Williams' \Glass Menagerie.\ Maybe working with the visiting actor, Don Doherty, brought out the best in the other members of the cast. If so, he is the more welcome to the production. But one had a feeling that even •' - -- ----- ·------ without him Miss Glunder would I and no knowledge. they ha\'e only have made an unusually mature . . • . Amanda Miss Smith an appealing feelmgs, which ar: _forever brUised L ' d M H · e n 1 and forever sensrtrve. They lack _au~a, an r. etmann a 0 - 1 both purpose and importance. Yet vmcmg gentleman caller; for the I they are so real as Mr. Williams ~ontebanks hav~ pr~bably. nev~r presents them that one sePs with gtven, at least 1 t; thts review?r s :a shock that one has known them time, a more fimshed production. always and never observed, until Set Catches Mood an artist came along to tell us. If someone is heard complaining their emptiness. Dash Involved Arthur C. Hallan, secretary-treas- urer of Allied announced the trans- action and said that a 1?-rge cash settlement was involved. However. he declined to give any further de- tails. Frank Bailey. treasurer of Union, refused to comment on the transaction beyond stating that it had taken place. Union had a similar arrange- ment of 0\'l.'nNship and lease with Abraham and Straus of Brooklyn, but sold that property back to its original owner several weeks ago. -----0---· that In a Union College production Here are no endings with a bang, Mr. Heimann was the only Union only the sad whimpers of almost College actor, he should remember unbearably pathetic and lost pea- to give proper credit to those ple. This may sound !i!{e unpromis- Anderson Ill' whose work is done without the ing material, but there was no audience being aware of their I doubt that the opening night au- R o p physical presence. There is George I dience liked it. Perhaps in a less esigns ost Carter's set for instance, which skillful production the play would to..: catches so sur;ly the low~r middle- turn out to hP just a hare. As long Professor James J. Anderson as- class horror 01 a St. Lams flat, yet as thP Mountebank~ do such a I . t t f f · t is interesting to look at. There is good joh \\'P shall nevl'r know. 1 ~ 15 an . prod£>~sor ~h gtvPl;~m~n · the neat job of lighting, in a play ----o---- 1 n~ I'P!ngn£> . ro~ P acu Y ue in which effective lighting is un- s·t T s k I to Ill hf'alth. lt :\flS announcPd y:s- usually important. There is the I I es 0 pea terdny hy Pre~!dent C'artPr David- son. precesion of timing in the stagP ' At s d Ch J management, which we are now I un ay ape hnProfpfssord Atndebr~on.h whto f has . . \ <·Pn ore£> o p a sen rom learmng to ~ake for ~ranted m the The spC'aker at the Sunday morn- many of hi~ cla~seR in thP past two Montebanks productwns. ~a~k of ing service at 11 n..m. in !\TPmorial 1 wr<'k<\. will go to \Vashington for ?-11, of c~urse, Is ::Vlr. Jones. d1rect- 1 Chapel will be the Rev. William I treatmE'nt. mg. which has both clarity and K. Sites. I His classes will bP taken for the nuance. . Real' . At present :B_ev. Sites is the As- , rest of the year by Professors A: Att:ams lty . 1 srstant Chaplam at Colgate Uni- K. Davis, Douglas Campbell and The play 1s about t~e kmd of i versity. Interestingly enough, he 1 Joseph Rotundo. The essays should be not less than 2500 words and, in using printed ml't-t~rt!L.ls, the essayist should not rely too heavily on lengthy quotations. Books are listed in the library under the authors concerned and no bibliog- raphy is necessary. Each essay must ·be signed by a pen name with the true name of the writer placed· in a sealed en- velope accompanying the essay. The Allen Prize is awarded fot• the best three essays on any sub- ject, submitted by members of the senior class. Details may be secured from Professor Blodgett. people you forg~t, the kmd of pea- 1 graduated from college as an elec-1 Professor Anderson was grad- pie who are rmportant on~y to 1 trical engineer, before he decided 1 uatt'd from Cornell in 1934 with an themselves. They have no wtsdom ito enter thP ministry. Students , A.B. degree. He received an M.B.A. 1 and faculty are urged to attend ·degree from Han·ard in 1936 and 1 the service. for RP\'. Sites is being a Ph.D. from Cornell in 1940. HP 1 considered as Cn1on's next chap- came to l:nion in 1946 as n.n a\- Albright to Have Article Published ilain. 1 sistant professor of government. ----OJ--- An article by Dr. Frank P. Al- bright, chairman of the department Ph;lo's Sponsor Debate of art at Union, will soon appear It ~~n~r ~~a~a:~u~~dR.o~~~~~~~.~ bi~ On Legal:zed Gambling To Choose Assistant AnothPr committee reported that thev are in the midst of choosing a r{ew student assistant to thP en- Ol dina tor of student activities. Th0y have reviewed he records of all the members of the sophomore class and ha\'e narrowed the choice down to three students, who will be interviewed before the final decision is made. ----0- ·-- -- lFC Finds Monies Less The Interfraternity Council, at its meeting Tuesday night, heard a revised financial report which statPd that thPre was only $158.69 in the treasury. This figure is $185 less than the sum previously re- ported because the IFC owed the Student Tax Committee monies it Lorrowed to sponsor the fall prom. The pres<'nt tnasut y balance i>' not sufficirnt to publish a fratern- ity onentatton booklet the ::;ize of last year's publication. The coun- cil discussed tht• possibility of pub- lishing a smaller booklet. President .!\-1artin appointed a committee to mvt>::;tigate printers' bids. The de!Pgates discussed the pos- sibility of having the IFC sponsor a social oroject. They considered the painting of hospital rooms or thr home of a needy family and helping th£> local Roy's Club build a playground. Roger Fenwick of the Philo- mat hran Socit>ty announcE>d that the groU!J's annual debate tourna- ment will be held April 2-6. A cup will be awarded to the winning team. ----OJ--- Professor Larrabee emphasized that the committee attempted to adopt a form of acceleration while maintaining the college's two semester program, all extracur- ricular activities and, in general, fitting acceleration in to the pre- sent calendar. Nepd Emphasized . The need fo1· acceleration was emphasized by the results of the questionnaire which revealed that out of the 560 students polled, ap- proximately 35<,( were interested in attending a summer session. About half of the total number questioned stated that they could not afford to att .. nd summer session. Sum- mf't ~t·~sion attendance cannot be accurat .. ly predicted, however, un- til final word 1s issued by the fed- el a! government on the draft situ- atiOn uf cullege men. The plan as it stands now will enablt- some present Juniors to fini>h college in February of 1952, if th<'Y attend summer session and take six courses next fall. Then· is also th<' possibility of having five-hour math and ROTC included among the summer courses offered if there is a de- mand for them. Courses of more than thre£> hours credit may be ~iven on a semeste1· basis during 10 or 12 weeks, provided that the students who take them agree to pursue an accelerated program which may be prescribed. Days, Holll'S Indefinite Civil Defense Aid Course Scheduled it_lg edited b;y Washington Univer- i!J It s1ty, St. L?ms; .· . The Philomathean Society will®> -- Dr. Albl'lght s contt tbutlon to the , 9 onsor the next in its popular I collection is an article concerning : s~ries of Parliamentary debates on Tw? clPbate teams will pat·ticip- a second century a.d. roman re- T d cn'n M rch 13 th The . ate m ten debates at the New production of the famous piece of t u~s ay .. ~v 1 1 ·gd. Tahat G ·bl' g 1 York City conference this wePkend Clothing Drive Starts on Campus ThC> liaison committee, in cooper- ation with the Student Council, openPd its annual clothing drivP last Wednesday, March 7. The boxes for the clothf's have been placed at Silliman Hall where all contl'ibutions will b<' gratefully ac- ceptt>d. The number of days a week and the length of class periods Is to be d£>termined by the dean. The original plan, however, called for a six day week for freshmen, with periods lastir.g 80 minutes, and either a five day week, with 80 minute periods, or a six day week, with 70 minute periods, for upper- classmen. A comprE-hensive t w o-w e e k course in first aid and stretcher bearing in relation to atomic dis- aster will be presented on April 2 and April 9 at 7:30 p.m. in the gymnasium. eulpture \Hermes\ b P ax't le a pres, eso \ e am m at Brookly Co11 ge d th s ' Y r 1 e s, Should Be Legalized\ will be de- . n e .' un er e au- a Greek sculptor of the foui·th cen- b t d b p f H ·d 1 A L 1 ,. _ spiCes of the Ph1lomathPan So- t B C a e y ro . aro . a t a · t A ff' t' Ul'Y • . • h d t t c1e y. n a 1rma 1ve team of The Roman copy of the Greek bee, ~han·man of t e ep~r men Roger Fenwick and Don Guder original is at present in the Psi of P!-'nloso~hy, and Prof. Al thur Kt ar.d a negativP team of Ralph Upsilon fraternity house at Union Davis,. chairman of the departmen FriE'dbauer and Lawrence Levine College. of socJOlogy.. will tal{e the trip along with Prof. ---o--- Prof. Davts. SE'conded by Lau- Erwin Von Schlicten S • 1 H d M'b } renee W. Levine, will take the af- · 1ese tO ea an \:S; firmative, and Prof Larrabee, with Union won on<' of threE' dPbates Delaney New Secretal'Y Klaus EpplPr. the nt>gative. last wee]{ in their trip to Bogton. Daniel Siesel, a sophomore, was Don Bunce, trans~er . stude~t debating on the to pie, \Resolved elected president of the Mounte- , from St. Andrews Umversrty, wtll that the Non-Communist Nations A mission in India has been chosen this year· as the main bene- factor of the drive. The Student Council received a Jetter from Rev. Schlooz. dirPctor of thr missions,· describing the poor state of the group. The drive will close April 9. The committee of faculty mem- bers that drafted the emergency proposal consisted of Professor Larrabee, chairman: Professor Walter Lowen of the Division of Engineering, Professor Harold E. Way of the Division of science and Professor· D. Richard Weeks of the Division of Humanities. The course, arranged by the Union College Committee on Civil Defense, will ·be taught by Dr. Alexander Arony, college physician, and Sgt. Bernard Max, of the AFROTC staff, and is open to all students. It will be taught with the aid of movies and is designed for emergency care immediately after atomic attack. Students completing the training will be added to the Schenectady County volunteer list for civil de- fense and will be used whenever necessary. The program is set up to prepare students to be of service both at Union and In their home banks this week at a general mem- act as clerk of the ·house. The de- Should Form a New Intet·national o---- bership meeting. He replaces bate will begin at 8 ?.m. it; Old Organization.\ Ge1·man Club Elects Richard Heimann. Chapel and the meetmg Will be The negative team of Monroe Officei·s of the Grrman Club William Delaney was elected open to speeches from the floor SilvPrman and Levine won over were elected· Tuesday night at a secretary of the dramatics group. after the formal debate. A vote on Harvard while the affirmative mertin.g in the Rathskeller. They Members of the Executive Council the issue will be taken at the b. e-~ team of Klaus Eppler and Fried- include Alvin W. olf.son, president; at·e William :Brandow, Irwin Barg, ginning of the meeting and an- bauer was defeated by Harvard's Theodore Hutton, vice president; Mark Aranoff, Nathaniel Allen and other one will be taken before negative team and by Wellesley and Patricl-t Fugazzotto, secretary- Quazy Quote towns. • Herbert Rie. adjournment. College. I treasurer. The stork is charge with a lot of things which should more prop- erly be blamed on a lark. -. 40 Utlpper

2 i .I ·. FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1951 ornurnr From the ·Readers, to the· Readers The Concordle:i!sis will publish al lsigned: letters which do not ex- ceed 300 words in length, however, the editors l'esorve the right ,to cut longer letters. Names will be with- removed from the office to which he was elected. Member Associated- Col- legiate Press and dlstrl- butnr of the C't>llegi!He Digest National AdvPr· !Ising Reprsgentatlve: Na... tiona! Advertising Serv!re. Inc., C'oJ1rgoe Publi~hers HeJH'e<entatlve, 420 Mn•H- son A-ve. -:\\ Y C Pnb- l!sheri ewrv Friday of the ~t·honl vear. Editorial Offlre,Washburn Hall, Union Colleg-e. Pub- Jlcatlon Office, The -Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered In the Srhen-ec- tarly Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription !Oc a copy; $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. leges and universities, .Such a com- and thus the election; but, to re- parison .shows that O\U rec01•d peat, Carmichael was not legally strikingly exceeds the record of elected chairman at this time. most colleges of our type. In .the Answer to Question Two: Yes. whole United States, in fact, there Carmichael's defense was that are only 35 institutions which have Chairman Carmichael excused 'Skelle~· Counci'i granted fellowships or scholarships Councilor Carmichael and thereby .. to more foreign studel).ts than we fulfilled the constitutional require- Describes Policy have, and this group of 35 consists ments concerning absences, 1m- held if requested. Although considerable verbage and •bickering •col!'ld havl) been .eliminated by referenc!)s to the facts and nothing but the facts, the affair has tended to point out one fact unmistakably: the present Student Government Constitution is an absurd document which nEiither recognizes the true rela- tionships within tl;l.e \Union fam- ily,\ provides .for .adequate I'epre- sentation of student interests, nor, as a minimum requirerrent fo1· a .constitution, is characterized by !Ogica!l ·consistency. Perhaps the biggest fault is the lack of a stu- dent .court to settle disputes over interpretation. Such a court is a useful part of the student govern- ment at many other colleges amd adversities. Whatever the .act1;1aJ importance -of ~he document as a form of government, the dr!!-Wil.lg up of a new con::;titution would s·erve as valuable mental discipline if nothing more. Jim Carmichat)l is to ·be congratu•Jated for focusing attention on this •long needed .pro- SENIOR BOARD JAY N. COHJ'\. '52 ...................................... Etlitor-in-Chief PvN !-1. CHE<:llo:H ·:.1 ............................... \>,ol'iate E<litor MARTI:'-J SlEGF.L -~.1 ................................ AeeoriRtP F.11\tor flO!'IALD F.. SC'HW \ HTZ '52 ..................... , .. , .Managing Editor WI LL..Al~D G. TAYLOR '52 ............................... ~ews Editor JERO.l\IE GART:\ EH '52 ...................... , ... , , , .. , ... Page F.dito>r MAHVJ~ L. KOH\ '53 ................................... Page Editor JOH!'r J. C'.\SS!DY '53 ................................ , Sports Editor ROBERT C. sr-.HTH '52 ....................... , ........ !o'eature Ertitor ALAN K. RADA,:::K '52 ............... , . , .. , , .. , , , , . Business Manager HOBERT B. llRI:-:DLEY '51 .................... , Circulation ManagH ,JrNIOR BOARD AltTt!\l'lt :11. STttL'K:.IJA:\ ·;,~ . . . . . . . .. . . .. . ........... l'ot•Y 1:<11tur Mll:-IHOE SlLVEH~lA:-< '52 ................ Aselstant Feature Erll!nr LAW:RJ-o~!'o:C'E \\'. LEVI :-IE '53 , ..... , ......... , , .. , .. Exchange Editor JOREPH. K. HA!\flLE!~ '52 ............... As~istant Business Manager LT·~n KUPPER'-'CH:\110 '52 ... , ....... , . . A~sistant Bu,ine•s Manager (+EtlHHE 1·, tcEilJ~~:Ttl:\' ·.~.:.! . . A~:-:btant l'.iu·ulation :\lauagt·r I•'EATl'RE STAFI' Thomag Donlon. Peter Fyfe, Alfred Kingon, Myron Komar, John !>loses. REPORTERS almost entirely of the great state possible, for we have just shown Ail Open Lettei• to the College universities and the largest inde- 'That he wasn't ever legally elected Commlmity: pendent institutions. In New Eng- Qhairman, It has been brought to our at- land, for exB~mple, only Yale, Har- Answer to Question Tlu·ee: No. tent-ion that some students frel the vard and Smith have more than Accordir:g to Section 32 of ~obert's Dutchman's Rathskeller is not ful- 11 foreign student ,scholarship hold- -Rules of Order, Revised, .the par- filling the function which they be- ers. In New York ·state, only liamentary authority of the ,stu- lieve :it should. We wish to clear Columbia, CorneH, :New York Uni- dent council, \a vote cannot be up any misunderstanding and ex- versity, New York iJntversity Bel- rescinded after somethin~ has been plain why the Rathske11er must be levue Medical Center, and Syra- done .as a result of th_at vote ... \ a public restaurant, ·serving beer, cuse have a numerically greater In this case, the electwn. was held and not as the name seems to im- record than Union College. We are ?-nd the succe~sful c~ndrdate duly ply, a beer hall. surpassed, in other words, ·only .by mformed of hrs el~ctron. The Rathkeller was, to a large colleges and universities that far The only con.cluswn that ·can be deg-ree, made possible by the don- exceed us in ,size and resources reached accordrng to the terms of ations of students, faculty and · We clearly surpass the college~ t?e S~udent Government Co?stitu- friends to our construction fund. that we normally regard as in our tron rs that Jer·rY. Parker . 'IS. the Thus the college community is cer- own league. This is a record which lega:lly elec~ed cha:rrman of the stu_- tainly entitled to an explanation I think all Union students can take dent _council,_ although only about of the limitations on our mode of proper satisfaction in remember- one-si.xth -of the stu?ent body voted operation. ing, and I personally- must again for ~1m. The ,~lechon planned for ject. Yom's truly, DON M. CREGI'ER Irwin Ban::. Phillip Beuth, James Carmichael, Alfred Goldberger, Martin Gordon, Herbert Hiller, \\'olcott Hubbell, l\'llchael Kahn, Lewis Klein, Jerome Klein, \\'illlam llohrmann, :\lartin Portnoy, David Smith, Her- lu:-rt ~pilu, Panil'l \\ .. einer. Wh1>n the Rathskeller was begun, record !TIY admiration for the gen- Th~u~day, Ma1ch 8, can have no a battle had to ·be fought in order erOsity and vision of the large v~lld1ty, regardless of the outcome, to obtain the college's permission number of Union students who smce Parker never vacated or was to sell beer. This permission was have supported the HELP .program ----------~----~-~-~-----~--- granted desipte protests from some and made such a record possible. R·or Your Information alumni and other groups, who pre- IN CLOSiNG, let me add that dieted dire results from the- sale · PHOTOGRAPHY STAFI•' Ala-n Forman, John Stebbins, Franlt Sl<ulsch. Bt:SDiESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Jan,es DeSorbo, Charles Little, Gerald Ho!Jerts, Dauiel Hies~l. lt'olleH Silvenuau, neorge \Vntbel. of beer. The beer trade has aver- f-riends. of Sten Stromholm (Sigma Phi's HELP student from Sweden FRIDAY, MAR. 9. Ar't Club, OC, 7 p.m.; Mountebanks .production, \The Glass Menagerie\ with Donald Doherty, Theater, 8:30 p.m. FRIDAY', MAR. 16. Daily assem- bly, Dr. E. A. T,idmarsh, MC, noon; Art Club, OC, 7 p.I:ll.;. Faculty Woman's Club, Hale House, 3 p.m.; Mountebanks pro- ductton, \The G'J.ass Menagerie\ The:(l.ter, 8:30 p.m. aged below 20% of our total busi- in 1949-50) will be p·leased to know ness; and nothing has happened CIRCULA'flON STAFF Robert Strand, Horace Van Voast, George Putman, Curtis Bates, David Steffanhagen, Culver Ha~·es, J. Loti ell l!.t vis, \\. Uliam \\'i1whe~ter, .lo-eph !>lart!n, Robert :ieytlel. thus far to justify the predictions that the illustrations in the Instic of those who opposed its sale. It tute's annual report include two is interesting to note that there pictures of him while he was serv- al'e only four colleges in the coun- ing as a counselor at Camp Pocono try, including Union, where stu- last summer. Here again Union's dents may buy beer on the campus. HELP program receives. public You and Your College The unique responsibility of a student at a small college is a concept which passes by unnoticed year after year by many Union students. Yet it is too important to be disre- garded. Union depends on accomplishments of the individual. Its campus life is based on a society formed by individuals, not by an anonymous mass. But the college cannot accom- plish its goals and do right by the students unless those stu- dents exercise their power-the power to be important. Too many men have matriculated at Union without recognizing the responsibilities they assumed when they de- cided to spend their undergraduate years here. They have attended classes, eaten meals, studied more or less, taken. part in some form of individual entertainment and slept, leading their lives of quiet anonymity without realizing that in so doing they were breaking down that vital relationship of small college to student \Vhich is a necessity if both are to prosper. In a large university the individual becomes lost in a maze of people_ He may spend his four years adding nothing and subtracting nothing, and his apathy is a loss only to him- self, for he is merely a member .of a large mass who are not needed by the university as individuals. But the small college offers the student an opportunity to exist as an individual among individuals, and it depends on the student to take adavantage of that opportunity. The college needs the individual for what he can add in the way of organization, morale and college improvement. The other students need him, since the maintenance of all campus functions is an individual job. And the individual needs himself, for only by taking an active interest in college af- fairs can he develop the \complete personality\ which Union attempts to nurture in its students. It is the duty of every Union student to become cognizant of his responsibilities; to take a constructive interest in the student activities program and to render service whenever possible; to take advantage of the small classes and friendly atmosphere at Union; to protect his school as he would pro- tect himself from attack and to improve it wherever he can; to attend athletic contests and to take an active interest in the athletic program; to attend and suppott college-sponso1·ed social events; to concern himself with campus government and to attem.pt to elect the best men to office; to devote him- self to the project of finding ways in which the college can be improved and to voice his opinions; to respect college traditions; to spread the good name of Union wherever he may trave1. Lm~t 1\londay many students displayed neglect of their responsibilities. A special meeting was called to offer the students a voice in an important matter which had been de- bated for many weeks. Everyone knew about it, for it had been publicized for a full week. Yet the chapel was half empty Monday noon, and many of those who did come found the execution of their duty as students, so seldom asked out- wardly, too difficult to endure, and they walked out. Actions such as these show that the students are failing their college and, in so doing, are harming themselves. Apathy on the part of college students is a forerunner to behavior in later life, for future attitudes are developed in the college environment. We do not suggest that every stu- dent should suddenly become active in campus affairs. We ask only that each man recognize his responsibility to the entire campus community and do his share in improving the college so that the college can in turn produce better men. Future Looks Rosier Fr6I\.1 all indications Union students; who have spent many a sleepless night wondering about their future plans, may soon have the answer. The g1·eat mental uncertainty was somewhat cleared up this week when the Faculty Council approved a very fine plan for accelerated summer sessions. The set~up leaves the option up to the student, where it belongs, but does not prevent those men who want to accelerate from doing so. Next week, we understand, even better news may be forthcoming concerning the status of college students in Uncle Sam's plans. And spring is only 12 days away. In order not to lose the beer recognition. privilege at Union, we must be Sincerely yours, especially careful to see that the GORDON R. SILBER SATURDAY, MAR. 10. Varsity swimming, Union at A AU Champs, Colgate, 2 p.m.; Mounte- banks production, \The mass Menagerie\ with Donald Doherty. decorum of the Rathskelle!' is at I an umes such that anyone, stu- B asts Pt·ofessionalism dent or otherwise, may walk in In College Activities the door and feel at ease. To Dear Editor: maintain the desired atmosphere, With a professiona'l actor replac- the students must conduct them- ing a student in the Mountebanks' selves in an orderly and gentle- current production, \Glass Menag- rnanly fashion. This, of course, erie\ I am tempted to say that SUNDAY, MAR. 11. Sunday serv- ice, preacher, Asst. Chaplain Wil- liam K. Sites, Colgate Univer- sity, MC, 11 a.m.; Concert by Union College Choir, Ballston Spa. rules out parties of the type one Union seems to be taking a \mara- might expect to find in a private thon\ forward. I hope that Mr. clu~; for, as we have said above, Jones will be equally successful in the Rathskeller is a public restau- obtaining some good . revi'ewel'S We, of the Rathskeller organi- such as Winchell, Lippman and rant. zation, will continue in our efforts Louella Parsons, to serve you of the college com- But why stop there? Let's get munity to the best of our ability. Lauritz Melchior to sing with the As always, we welcome your sug- QJJ.ee Club, Joe DiMaggio to benefit gestions. our baseball team and Jack Benny to hep up our radio station. Respectfully, It is to be :regretted that our THE· EXECUTIVE COUNCIL campus talent is not good enough OF THE for either Professor Donald S. DUTCiiMAN'S RATHSKELLER Jones or anyone else, but for the Professor Lauds same reason we cannot have pro- fessionals on our athletic teams, HELP Prog1·am we cannot have them in Mounte- banks. Professional assistance is supposed to be limited to either coaching or directing or some ad- Sir: Two items of exceptional inter- est, bearing on Union's HELP pro- gram, have come to my attention within the past ten days and I should like to take advantage of your columns to pass them on to your readers in the student body and faculty. AS MANY will have heard by the time this is .published, there is an enthusiastic reference to J. J. Alberdingk (Phi Gamma Delta's HELP student from the Nether- lands in 1948'-49) in an article in the Atlantic Monthly for March. Perry Miller, Professor of Ameri- can Literature at Harvard, who has been visiting lecturer at the University of Leiden, there an- alyzes the difficulties that exist in breaking down the barriers be- tween Europe and America and in giving European uni¥ersity people a realistic understanding of the United States. In this general con- nection he ~-rites: \The Fulbright prqgram, which sends teachers and students to Europe, is a splendid enterprise- although there are defects in its administration. I have found that the really effective agents, how- ever, are not so much the Ameri- cans in Europe as the European students who have been in America. At Leiden two young men, one -of whom had a year at Kansas and the other at Union, were worth twenty times the visiting professor in making comprehensible Ameri- can ways of thought. Their parents may lament, and their professors not listen-since professors seldom Usten to students anyway - but their comrades will. No dollar spent in bringing a student to America is wasted-considering 'what we waste, this is an advisedly sweeping statement. It is not neces- sary that they be brought here to be indoctrinated: it is just neces- sary that they be brought.\ A SECOND striking indication of the status of Union's foreign student program - a quantitative one . in this case-is to be found in the statistical section of the annual report of the Institute of International )Dducation which bas just been distributed. This section shows that Union has accepted 11 Institute-sponsored students for the current year on s<;l;10larships, and makes it possible to compare ou1· record with that of other col- visory capacity. This is a matter within our Stu- dent Council's jurisdiction; how- ever in view of their present con- duct, I wonder whether they are capable of coping with this or with any issue, Yours truly, JOHN E. THORND~ Debates Legality Of Council Action Dear Jay: I was pleased to see that the con- tinued absence of my column has been noticed, at least by Messrs. Louis de Barth Gardiner, III, and George F. Redington, Jr., even though their letter to the paper last week was not altogether com- plimentary. If any other of my former readers would be willing to express their .feelings toward the column, either pro or con, by means of Letters to the Editor, I should be much obliged. In lieu of a column, I intend to make use of this medium to express my views from time to time on various subjects. This week I shall have a look at student government, which is currently, for ·a change, the subject of heated public con- troversy. There are three main constitu- tional questions involved in the student council fracas to date. First, was Jim Carmichael legally elected chairman of the qouncil last May? Second, did the council have a legal right to remove him from membership in that body? Third, did the council have legal grounds to rescind the call for the election, ·held Febi'Uary 22, in which Jerry Parker was elected to succeed Carmichael as chairman? Note my repeated use of the word \legal.\ Let's leave out any refer- ence to personality and morals and review the above questions from a strictly literal viewpoint. ~swer to Question One: No. To quote the Student Government Constitution, Title Two, Article V, Part 1, \The officers of the Stu- dent Council shall be elected by secret ballot ..• \' As you will re- call, a signed chapel slip had to be attached to the ballot irt this election if the vote was to be counted. I can't .Imagine wl)y the council adoptsd this silly rule, op- viously nulilfy!ng- the secret ballot MONDAY, MAR. 1:!. Daily assem- bly, Mr. Donald Doherty, actor, MC, noon; Placement panel, OC, 4:30 p.m., \Secondary Educa- tion\. TUESDAY, MAR. 13. Daily assem- bly, The Rev. Wm. Gold, \Re- ligious Surplus: Spiritual Bank- ruptcy\ MC, noon; Home Life Insurance Co.: French club, -Silli- man Hall, 7 p.m.; Philomathean Debate, OC, 8 p.m. \Resolved: That Gambling Should Be Legal- ized\ Professors Davis and Lar- rabee, TWO POINTS CREDIT; Ellis Hospital Training School for Nl!rses, MC, 8 p.m.; Engi- neers of Eastern New York, EE- 22, 8 p.m. WEDNESDAY, MAR. 14. Holy Eucharist, MC, 7 a.m. .(Father Walters of St. George's) ; Lenten service, \The Foundations of Faith\ Silliman hall, noon; Placement interviews; AIEE (Schenectady Chapter), EE-22, 8 p.m.; Cooperative Evening As- semblies (College Lecture), MC, 8 p.m., Speaker, Lester Granger, executive d i r ector, National Urban League, \A Blueprint for Interracial Progress\ T W 0 POINTS CREDIT. THURSDAY, MAR. 15. Daily as- sembly, speaker, Dr. Karl T. Compton of MIT, MC, noon; ASME, EE-22, 8 p.m.; Mounte- banks production, \The Glass Menagerie\ with Don Doherty Theater, 8 :30 p.m. ' GREY FLANNELS Suifs $45 to 49.50 Slacks $10.95 to 15.95 .. = Oxford Cloth Shirts = == = = = = Button Down Collars $4.50 Argyle Sox $1.00 to $2.95 Pure Silk Repp Ti~s $2.00 JOS~H'S ~111;;~1;~:~;1:;11101:;;111;; ---o--- Placement Notice Mar. 12-Panel for undergraduates \Opportunities in Teaching in Secondary Schools\ 4:30 p.m. Old Chapel; Mar. 12--Traveler's InsurancE! Mar. 12-Discussion meeting 8;00 p.m. Cold Chapel~ Prudential Insurance Mar. 13-Prudential Insurance Co. Mar. 13-Q'roup Meeting, Home Life Insurance Co.,. 4:30 p,m, Old Chapel Mar .. 14-Home Life Insurance Co. Mar. 14-Panel ;Discussion at Old Chapel 4:30- ·All students ~nter\ ested in overseas wol'k with the Standard Vacuum Oil Co. and Ad-vertising and Sales with the G.E. Mar. 15-Standard Vacuum Oil Co., Overseas Service Mar. 15-Corps of Engineers, U.S.A. Mar. 15-Interviews with Standard Oil and G.E. (Wells House). Mar. 15-Bigelow Sanford Place- ment discussion for every de- partment in college. Manage- ment Training Program. Bige- low Sanford interviews. 1:Iar. 16-U. S, Geological Survey · Mar. 16-Equitable Life Group Meeting, 4:30 p.m. ' The Graduate Council offices has vacancies for two (2) grant-in-aid students. Applicants interested are invited to see Mrs. H. H. Borden at Wells House. L. G. BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES -RINGS - FAVOBS JEWELRY S _ . _ LEATHER GIFT8 TATIONERY _ PROGR.UIS CLUB PINS - incYs MEDALS • TJtOPH:1118 Write or call CARL SORENSEN so Murray Ave, Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TROT -ADAMS s.2Ui James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD. at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street Serving Union's Men For Yean See your agent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 ll4 State St. near Ferry . ._.. ......

195·1 which been the the one itution which rela- faJ:n- r.epre- no~, for a by the a stu- over is a amd. act1;1a1 as a would ed pre- assem- :Me, p.m.;. Hale pro- in 30 p.m. 8;00 Co. Home :30 p,m, Co. at Old inter~ with Oil Co. with Oil ers, House). Place- de- Manage- Bige- Survey· Group has are Borden co. lers N.Y. 8-UI$' ervice pus Ferry FRIDAY. MARCH 9, 1951 Swimming Standouts Union c,agers Lose To Trinity i;n Finale 3 Mermen Complete Successful Year By Irwin :Barg The Garnet swimming tearn ended its rnost successful season in the 28 year history of the spm-t at Union last Sat-. .urday, by trouncing RPI 48..:27, in the Engineers' .PDol. The Dutchmen had little opposition as they swept six fi-rst places to take their eighth consecutive vict0ry and finish with a. By Bill Mohrmann The Union College basketball team closed its season last Saturday night, losiNg a see-saw 73-60 battle to Trinity Col:.. lege, at Hartford. This gave the Nistad five a rather medi- ocre 1·ecord of six wins and eleven defeats for the campaign. · Dutchmen Tire o$>-------------- 9 to 1 record. DUffy Breaks Marks q}---~--- John puffy was high scorer for Ne. o:ph .. ·yte Q.u·.I·n··.tet, the Garnet and bettered his own records in the 220 and 440. John's .SWI' . \m· .m·.e·rs T· o.·p.·p.ed new 220 · record is 2:24.2 and it marks the third time that he Jim Carmichael, who ple,yed steady ball all year despite a knee injury, led the Garnet attack with eight field baskets and three fouls for 19 points. He was followed in the scoring coJ.umn by Ray Pom- eroy and Bob Murray who dumped in 15 and 12 points respectively. Charley Wrinn led the Trinity scoring with twenty. Injuries Hurt Chances bested his record this year, having Th~ Freshman Winter Sports done it against BU and CCNY pre- sche~ule was closed out Wednes- viously. :Duffy's 440 time of 5:20.5 day, as the Union Frosh swim- was the second .time he broke his mers took it on the chin 41-25, record .of la:ot season. In the open- from Albany Academy. Coach Sam ing event at Troy, the medley 11e- Hammerstrom's yearling cagers · lay team, this time made up of finished a poor season last Satur- Kloth, J:)iamond, and Stark, took day w:ith a 48-42 loss to Albany · Out for their fifth straight win, against Trinity, the Dutchmen pulled to a narvow two point lead midway in the third quarter after trailing for the .entire· contest, but faltered when they began to tire In the closing minutes. The Hill- toppers wasted no time in jumping to a 13-6 lead early in tbe fi·rst ·quarter, but the hard driving Gar- net fiVe fought back to close the gap. The score stood 20-18 in favor of the opponents at the end of the ·This marked the close of a four first period. · game winning streak which the With both squads finding the Garnet five had put together after ·lHJop in the second stanza, the the longest losing streak in Union score at the half found the Hill- College cage history. Greatly cur- toppers holding a narrow one point tailed by early season injuries, the margin. After the Nistad charges Nistad squad opened impressively fought determinedly to overcome in the Alumni Gym by devastating this advantage they seemed to lose Middlebury 80-37, breaking their their touch and fell 5 points be- scoring record. its sp·eCialty for the tenth straight ·Business College. time. Frosh Swimmers Split Howie Kloth and Bob Diamond Coach Ray Mullane's •baby nata- copped first places -in their events, tors split their four meet schedule; and Bob Dorse took the 50 yard both losses handed to them by daSh. Werner Reiners took to the Academy's undefeated swim squad. distnace events and followed Duffy Their wins were over the Troy· Photo by AI •Forman home in both the 220 and 440. YMCA and RPI, by one point last Freestylers Bob Dorse and John, Duffy, two big reasons for the hind at the ten minute mark and· After losing two road contests . could not overcome an even larger by narrow margins, they returned Hanchel: took third slots .in .the · week. swimming team's record of 9· wins and but 1 loss. Dorse, a sopho- 'Trinity lead in the final stanza. !Continued on Page 4> dive, behind Metzger, and the Albany Academy, with one of more, exel}lled in the dash events, and anchoored· the undefeated :~-·---- - • •-- - • - • • • • • • - • • • - • • - -, .backstroke, and Gerry Geismar the best of Eastern· prep school medley l1elay team. Huffy is a junior who holds th ·school .records :I SPEND YOUR EASTER VACATION AT : .ended the Garnet scoring with .a• swim teams, .took firsts in six in both the 220 and MO yard races. In setting the 22() mark, Duffy ·I UNION MEN! d I · th b tst oke broke a mark .set 11 years ago by Chuck Passe. I secon pace m e reas r events Wednesday at Foote Pool. event. They were paced by their .unde- .1 Williams Only Defeat ·feated freestyler J·im Hogan, and Ski Team Competes t ·sn R.d 'I Mullane's men suf.fered their breaststroker Dick Beamish. Dick . . : . . . a. ow I ge; il only setback this season at the Hartmann and Jim Leitzell were BI·ggest E· astern I. ·nterco·l1e·g·.t\ate M' ee·t '.•. hands of a powerful William's the only Garnet winners. Hart- squad' Whl 'ch had too· much mann,. who has a very promising ~ . · More than 17 crack college slri \' ·I strength in the freestyle events. tank future, took two dashes, while L ·tzell c d th d' · t tea-ms, including Union, will com- Osborg and Young were the big I J ones, of the Ephrnen, set new pool e! oppe · e lV!:rJ.g even · M h .l th f h · t t · pete in the fifth annual intercol- point-earners in the .St. Lawrence ·.· 1 records for the ·220 and 440, during eanw 1 e, e ros qmn e ·, 1n I · t Alb d 'th Iegiate ski meet at Snow Ridge, and Skidmore Winter Carnivals. the course ·Of the afternoon. The osmg a · any, woun up WI Turin, tomor:vow and Sunday. The o 'I Dutchmen definately reachd the a mark of two wins and six: losses. ABC d t t 1 1 d d event will be the largest intercol- Track Call :1 peak of their form when they d·e- ' rew ou o an ear Y ea , an feated Fordham and CCNY in held on to it to make it two ~!!~:e ski meet ever held in the The Traek team will begin formal ·I New York. The Rams had the straight over the Garnet cubs. The practice on Moniiay, M!arch 12. All 1 hottest club in the .city and Union two victories for the freshmen The' Dutchmen will send a five men, irrespective of experience, 'I was hard pressed to gain a 39-36 came over the Cobleskill Aggies. 'man team to compete for the Snow who desire to .become candidates I decision, at which time· Reine:rs, ' o Ridge Trophy. The Union .squad, f()r the team, should report on Diamond,. and Dorse set the pre- which l.s competing in its third Monday between 3 and 5 p.m. at I sent colleg.e record for the medley . Spring Football Notice meet this winter, will send :Hallie the back door of the Gym w'here .1 relay with a blustering 3:04. There wiU be an ilnJWrtant meet- Osborg, Gary Young, Mark Bran- mentor Bill Ketz will g1:eet them ·I Perhaps the most gr;atifying de- ing of all 1951 va.rsity football can• son, Gerry Klein and Jim Cusato •. with open arms. I cision of the year for Mullane and · dida.tes in the Trophy Roo'in of ·I his men came when they topped the Gym at 1:00 p.m., Monday, RPI. A traditional rival, the En- March 12. Spring practice plans. Everything in Music I gineers had nipped the Dutchmen will be diseussed, Coach Sam Ha.m- 'I by one point the previ ous year. merstrom revealed~ p· 1 anos _ Organs 'I The Union swimmers also downed Rochester twice during the sea- 1 d I son to avenge a double drubbing originally a backstroker, was con- Te evision-Ra io Com-binations 1 t 1949 50 · verted to a distance freestyler. from them during he • cam- Reco,rds-SL, eet ''Mus\•c-'.Phonographs I paign. Dick Johnson and Bob Jarrett. [I I were lost to the team by gradu- . A total of ten new college rec- ation in. February, and John Izbis- I ords were set during the course ter dropped out of school during ROBERTS PIANO COMPANY . of the year. Reiners broke the· the season. To look ahead to next :I old 50 yard mark with his 24.6 season, there are a couple of very . 203 STATE STREET I and set the record in the new back- fine swimmers coming up from I beautiful LAKE Site of International Ski Championships At The HOTEL MARCY Skiing is featured-Marcy's own slope-no tow charge - every variety of winte·r sports and games - complete social staff. Big Northeastern College Jamboree Loads of co-eds and fellows from colleges within a 200-mile radius At the Special Student Price of $8 per day per person American plan. For further information see the Marcy Hotel Campus Representative AL RADACK at Kappa Nu I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I •• I stroke ElVent twice,. finishing with the freshman ranks, in Dick Hart- PHONE - 2-2493 Open Thurs. Until 9 P.M. . 1 2:30.2 against Williams. The med- man and Art Fink. ley relay team set two new marks, ::::;:::.;::=:=:=:=:=:;::::=:=:=:=:=::;i ':'==:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::=~ ., -·• •- • •--- • •,. •-- • •-- • •- • • • • • • in addition to Duffy's amazing 1r season. The opposition was great-· ly improved this year, as witnessed by several new pool records were set. Cornfoot of Massachusetts, bettered Reiners pool mark with a 2:26.8 effort. Jones of Williams holds the 440 record and Jacque, of BU, set the 2:23 220 record. Diamond to Graduate Ferro•s Restaurant Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE FERRO Proprietors 1115 Barret+ St. • Specializing in ITALIAN-AMERICAN FOOD Phone 6·9554 Ray Mullane is fortunate in .that he might lose only two men from his squad, barring the dr.aft. Bob Diamond and Walt Gross being the only sentors left on the tea:m. ·B01b went through the seas.on unde- feated in his individual event and ~==========· 3 .. 3. ~:: .... :: .. ~::-=::. ~ was a member of the record med- ley team. He set his record last season and tied· it this ·season· against Fordham. During · his three years on the team, Bob was a very hard worker and constant- ly strove to better his time. Gross, LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy Prescriptions \The College Students Drug Store\ Chemicals _... Drugs Cor. NOTr TERRACE and STATE STREET Famous Chinese and American· Foods LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS 135 ~roadway Phone 6·9595 ' • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired 8 Engravingi tool Jay Jewlery c~o. best ~ seat in the house~ with Arrow Shorts. They're full cut for comfort ••• roomy. &r center seam ••• ~ comfortable. In any. J]L p.osition. fa be led. See them today! First choice for Comfort! ABBOW SHORTS .Arrows never ride bunch, or creep up on you. They're tailored for perfe~t fit, extra comfort, with contoured seat panel, pleated crotch, and no irritating center seam. Sanforl.zed-laheled fabrics (can't shrink more than I o/o) • , • yofir choice of patterns and colors. See them today. Arroll! Shorts: all popular atyles $1.45 up Arro111 T-Shirts $1.25 up Arro111 Athletic Slzirts $1 NUSBAUM'S 447451 STATE STREEt L------- FOR ARROW IJNIVI!RSITY STYlE'S --------~

4 FRIDAY. MARCH 9, 1951 Sage Thespians In 'Green Pastures' Correction Contest Winners Basketball {Continued from Page 3) Campus Psych Pr,of Has Unique Approach Due to the large number of controversial letters w1•itten duning the month of February, the editors, in an effort to elim- inate bias, have selected :five winners for the monthly con- test. A carton of Chesterfields will be divided among .Arthur Casey, Herman Opitz, John Kennedy, Eugene Underwood and Leslie Couch. to their home court to snap the · scoring record again, swarnping The Dramatics Association of Hamilton 89-76. A 7'1.-54 loss to Ver- Russell Sage College will present mont the following weel• started ;\The Green Pastures\ by Marc the cagers on their eight game Connelly on Friday, March 16 and La.st weekis story on the :ft.nanclai report of the Rath- skeller stated erro~eously that new lighting would cost about '$1,000. This figw.'e should have read $100, New cbnirs will cost $1,000. By AI Kingon , losing streak. Still held back by injuries and Saturday, March 17, at 8:15 p.m. in Clare Graves who is so well knewn to the college remains one of its greatest enigmas and most controversial members .• . Today at 35 years of age Clare Graves is Associate Professor of Psychology, Clinical Psychologist of the college and on the staffs of Ellis Hospital and the Children's Hos~ital. John Maisel won :fh·st prlz;e and Joe Gabl'iels second pr.iz;e in the Basketball Score Guess- ing Contest held for the Union- R.P.I. game. The winners re- ·ceived a carton .of cigarettes. The contest, which was the last 6f a current series, was spon- sored by the Concordien.sls and the Chesterfield Representative. by players dropping from · the · the Little Theatre, 95 First Street, . squad, the Nistad quintet was hurt· Troy. ' considerably more by the loss of \The Gre~n Pastures\ is a rep- star pivot man, Spence Warnick, resentation of a living neligion; who was injured seriously in an · that of thousands of Negroes in automobile accident over the ·the deep South. This play <l.,epicts Christmas recess. Wai·nick, a:long how these Christians adapt and ac- · · with Glenn Kinns and Carmichael, .. cept the bible in terms of their .. had paced the Garnet attack in everyday lives. They believe the GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY 'J:'ra.nsferred oo· Union ~--------~------ Dr. Graves began his undergrad- uate life at the University of Michi- gan and transferred to Union after. two years. He was a Division III major and received his A.B. degree, in 1940, While working for his Ph.D. at Western Reserve. Dr. Graves taught at Cleveland Col- lege and Fenn College, was a full time psychologist at the psycho- logical clinic of the Criminal Court i·n Cleveland, staff psychologist of the Case Institute of Technilogy, a member of the Personnel Research Institute investigating and ·doing· research in various industries and a consulting psychologist at the Cleveland Rehabilitation Center. One of the major reasons why Dr. Graves came to Union is his desire to study the effectiveness of a small college in developing ma- turity in individuals. In Union he tound a laboratory where he could observe this aspect of the educa- tional system. There is nothing he likes as much as teaching and he says that in order for a student to get anything out of an institu- tion in our highly developed so- ciety, he must put much time into it. En.ga.ged in Resea1·ch Photo by Forman Dr. Clare Graves Biochemist ·Writes Book Caryl P. Haskins, professor of biochemistry at Union, had his · latest book, Of Societies and Men published recently, and .[t was met with overwhelming success. Deals With Anaiogies This, Haskin's third book, deals with the analogies between human and animal societies. The question that Dr. Haskins addresses to him- self is \Does what we know about the evolution of animal organisms throw any light upon the probable future of human society .or upon the attitude which we ought to a symptom and not the problem. take toward some of the tenden- What then is the problem? \It is cies of that society?\ According to the vicious attempt in our society tqe reviews in the New York Her- to make the individual grow up too ald Tribune, he does a creditable fast. The adults in our society do job. not respect the fact that a baby Ini addition to his post .as bon- is a baby and has to grow and orary professor of biochemistry at learn slowly. We are trying to the college, Professor Haskins is beat time and this is the most director of Haskin's Laboratories serious problem we encounter to- here and in New York, a trustee day.\ He says he knows of no I of the Carnegie Institute in Wash- therapy that is not violent and the lngton and president of .the Na- world is in the midst of therapy. tiona! Photocolor Corporation. the early contests. · winders of the Old Testament as a,· The Dutchmen showed .signs of , chronicle which happened to pea- erupting from their losing way:s , ple like themselves. when they dropped a heartbr:eak- Tickets will be sold at the door ing one peint decision to Br:ooklyn for $1.00 per person. Poly. They followed this contest by losing 60-59 to a heavily favored RPI squad, before they flna:lly took - ,.. - - - - - - -·- ·- \\\ -· -. the measure of Stevens Tech 74-62,, 1 1 SAVE 1.0R1.o • •. · and went on to defeat Champlain, ' 7( Hamilton, and RPI. I on · I I Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING M5 Statt> \t.-~lncE' ll\911 FOR ALL YO!JR GIFT NEEDS Season Is Disappointment . I Leading Brands of 1 Certainly the squad did not 1 WALLPAPERS I Serving Union Since l9H measure up to pre-Se!lson expecta- I HARDWARE I _ tions. Nistad had members of an I· PAINTS & VARNISHES I .M ' Ll,. . -&~ORQ undefeated Freshman squad ·com- HOUSE ~r.J, ~ ~\) ing up and a veteran squad re- , I· ' WAR. ES 1. 1 (j ~»}}'\ \ . · .. · · ·. maining from the previous year. 1 C PI \1° 1 Jll\ SJ J(W(~ A . TOL PA-.INT 1 I\ JA·\· • .· · · But frosh Marv Zepf dropped .from I I school, and Stretch Batkiewicz was' I & HARDWARE CO. l II unable to play because of studies. 1 Dick Speidel, one of the outstand- .1,_1_26_ S_+a_+e_· S_+._P_h._4·-83-93- _II . ing men of the 1949-50 campaign, 166 Jay Street did not return to school. With Pomeroy and Sherwin on the dis- abled list early in the year Nistad~s ·hopes for a winning season were dimmed. ---0·--- APO Book Exchange Alpha Phi Omega requests that students who are due either books or money from the A.P.O. book exchange contact William Streets· in Room 25 S.S.S.C. SAVE 10% •• -ON FOOD COSTS •• - •• SAVE 1:0% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out' Orders Call Sch.--6-9766 \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S .. 547 Not+ St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N~ Y. MEAL TICKETS--$5.50 for $5.00 ·ll I At the present time Dr. G'raves is engaged In four lines of re- search. First of all, he is studying the psychological determinants of occupational choice. He is going to show that there are covert factors that deterrnine a person's work rather than what a person usually offers as reasons for his choice. Secondly, he is trying to determine the meaning of deviant groups in a student population. For obvious reasons he declined to say wl!ich groups at Union he is studying. THE STRAIGHT FACTS ON CIGARETTES Thirdly, he is collecting data on the effect <lf electric shock on an organism, and finally he is finish- ing up a study of pre-natal traumas on the post-natal life. For the final two projects Dr. Graves is work- ing with mice. In a short time he plans to publish a manuscript on the psychology of the developing child, for which he has completed his researches. Controversial Ideas In and around the psychology de- partment Dr. Graves and his ideas are the issues of highest contro- versy. He is firmly convinced from his data that all attempts at voca- tional guidance have been over- looking the emotional side of the work in question. He believes that the emotional aspect is the more important determiner rather than the intellectual factor. In regard to the educational sys- tem in our society, Dr. Graves says that there is evidence that the dissenting group in the population at large is increasing considerably. This group is composed of all those who find fault with the sys- tem as it now stands and believe that the individual should seek his own way toward his educational goal rather than be directed. A.ctivities A.re OutiPts There is reasonably good evi- dence, according to Dr. Graves. that the rejection of the newborn by the parent is due to the experi- ences of the parent while carry- ing the unborn babe. He also feels that there Is considerable evidence to indlcal<\ that the student activi- ties on a college campus are more outlets for feelings of dissatisfac- tion engendered elsewhere than they are for training relations with other human beings; but they could be made into vehicles for training if they took into consld- era that they are functioning as emotional outlets. In the present unsettled times Dr. Graves says. that the students will have no more than the usual difficulty in adjusting when the government makes up its mind what it is going to do. For the time being he advises ali students to follow their dictates regarding careers and futures without con- sideration of what war may or may not do to them. \We should live from day to day and not worry about tomorrow,\ he says. A.na.lyz:es World Crisis Commenting on the present world situation, Dr. Graves says that the east-west conflict can best be analyzed in terms of the psy- chology of fear. \They are afraid of us; we afraid of them. And we both act accordingly and both act wrong. Our most serious problem In trying to spread· democracy Is our attempt to do it mostly through verbalization when the best method of teaching it is through acts of reciprocation, something that we are not doing.\ Dr. 'Graves believes that war Is· PROOF of MILDNESS \When I apply the standard tobacco growers' test to cigarettes I find Chesterfield is the one that smells milder and smokes milder.\ Statement by hundreds of Prominent Tobatco Growers PROOF of NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE \Chesterfield is the only cigarette in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-tas.te.'·' From the report of a well-known Industrial Re$earch Organization '

%. 1951 .Basket\ have Kro· pus repre- who re. and which Represen- ,with the ebruary .28;. from between FERR.O .• St. . N FOOD ~ , \ \ ' ·~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ) \\\--- Rathskeller Closes Tuesday, March 20 Till After Easter Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 16; 1951 Next Conco1·dy Friday, April 6; Af.te~ Vacation PRICE 10 CENTS Constit.ution Cha-nges Discussed By C·ouncil Mid-Term Grades Mi~term marlts, which close : Wednesday, will be based only on wark since February, ac- · cording to a college policy an- . nounced by :Oea,n C. William Huntley this week. -Freshmen Made Eligible In response to the recent barrage of criticism an active group of student counci'l members led two and @ne half hour debate over student council reform at the Council meeting at i Hale House lou.nge Tuesday. The purpose behind the deci- · sion is that mid-term marlrs are issued to indicate hqw a student is currently doing in a course, Dean Huntll'y said. Year course , marks in June will, of course', · include the entire year's work. . Varsity • Competition Spearheading the discussiQn were James Carmichael, Harry Petrak, David Walrath, Stanley Marynowski, Pau:l Carbone, Eug.ene· Underwood. and George· Hendon. Their remarks shed enough· light on the clouded® --------------- ------------~---------------~ Marines S·eek Men Union College has made application through the Eastern College Athletic Conference to permit fref;hmen to participate in varsity athletics, J. Harold Wittner, director of athletics, announced today. Approval of the application is expected immediately. --·----------------------------® and complex situation in the Coun~: D h . t s cil to ~~e most of the issues:. o·· ' ·er . y ·a- . y·· s clearly V!SI•ble. : · · · · · No Formula Theater , Major William H. Cushing, USMC, representative for the Ma- rine Corps Officer Procurement : program, will be at Silliman Hall ··March 30, all day, to interview stu- Frosh Meeting Carniichael: Need Prestige After a; thorough study of the. For Success in existing set-up, former president Carmichael asserted that until the . Council has .prestige enough to compel the individual student~s in- terest in its affairs, the system was • and will continue to be unrepre-' sentative. There will be a required meeting of all freshmen on Wednesday, March 21, at 12 noon, in Memorial Chapel, for the purpose of choosing pro- grams for next year. If for any reason a freshman can- not come, he should report be- fol\ the meeting to the Dean's office, where he can fill out the necessary forms. Confirming his view was the re- port of the Election committee on · the two recent student body elec-. tions. The first featured 231 void write-in ballots and the · second· totaied only 311 ballots. To increase interest ai)d effi- ciency in the Council, Carmichael proposed reduction of the number of representatives from twenty-six to sixteen, ·four from each class. Plan Oppoeed There was immediate opposition on the grounds t)J.at decreasing the number of representatives would not increase student interest and participation but would only leave the council open for control •by a minority group of students or· members. · This resolution was tentatively defeated. Carmichael further proposed, supported by Hendon that possible constitutional changes should be· submitted to meetings of the gen- eral student body because of the importance of the election Issue. Petrak and Marynowskl lead the fight for a resolute Council stand on all the issues and a new con- stitution which the student body would approve ·or reject by voting ·for each section separately but all at the same time. As a result of prolonged discussion it was de- cided that the Constitution Com- mittee would hold a JlUblic bear- ing in Hale House lounge next Tuesday night at 7 :30 to air all in- terested student opinion. In the order of routine business, Eric Schmidt reported that the Constitution committee \is working overtime to provide the Council with an effective constitution by Spring.\ The Election ·committee scheduled April 12 and 13 as dates for the Council elections and Jim Dorill presented the report of the Campus Chest. Advisor Plan Fails Don Doherty, artist in residence on Campus for the past dents interested in the Officer two weeks, offers no formula for success in the theatre world. Candidate Course, which is open to 1 h I · f college seniors and graduates, or \' wis knew 1t mysel ,\ Doherty has commented to advice· the Platoon Leader's Class, which seeking stude~1ts. is open to freshmen, sophomores, Made Local Appearances Doherty is currently playing in the Mmmtebanks production of \The Glass Menagerie'! in the role of Tom Wingfield. His perform- ance has been lauded by local critics as masterful. He has also made n-umerous ap- pearances in classes, in chapel, on local radio and television shows, speaking to the local Civic Players, and at Russell Sage and Skidmore,. plus talks with students interested in radio, television, or \the legiti- mate theatr.e. • ~~·--------·------------~------- and juniors who wish to get a Birthday,\ and others. He con- commission as Second Lieutenant siders his working with the late in the U. S. Marine Corps Reserve. Walter Huston in \Apple of His· Any applicant accepted to this Eye\ as one of the finest experi- course will be exempt from mili- ences of his career. tary servi,ce under the present \Huston was an actor of such draft laws. This is the only other calibre that you could observe him program by which Union College for 250 performances and learn students may receive exemptions something each time. He was a from service until aliter graduation great actor as well as a wonderful except for the ROTC programs person,\ Doherty stated. here and in the Schenectady area. Commenting on the Mounte- Persons interested should con- banks, Doherty asserted that this tact Professor Klemm beforehand theatre was run on a graduate to arrange for an appointment school level. Those interested in with Major Cushing. ---01--- Big Shortage .... Dr. Compton In a Thursday chapel speech, Dr. Karl Compton, former President of M.I.T. and now M.I.T. Corpor- ation bead, gave a short history of enginee1·ing education since its beginning and also spoke on the supply and demand for engineers in our economy. He carried his estimates up to 1954. All engineering schools in this country are patterned after the· famous Ecole Polytechnic in Paris which was founded in 1795. This The only advice Doherty says he can give to ambitious thespians is to keep working and to look for the all important break. A great majority of those connected with the theatre are unemployed and are in danger of losing their edge · unless they get more of a chance to work. making the theatre their life's work, will benefit greatly from tbe thorough manner in which each production is handled. The mem- bers, he said, will be much better off for having worked in all phases of a production, not only acting, but set designing, building, China Prof To Speak . pioneer in engineering education Dr. Robert B. Fulton, a professor was taken over l;>y the state after at Huachung University, Wuchang, the disastrous defeats of Napoleon China, will be the .speaker at the to provide good education for the regular service of worship Sunday men whose responsibility it would at 11 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. His be to rebuild France. Television Has Helped One thing that has helped, how- ever, is television. A large part of the overflow from the other mediums has been observed by video. Numerous opportunities are open for interesting and sometimes high salaried jobs in TV. These jobs in•clude back stage work as and lighting as well. Admissions Trip Planned technicians, writers, directors, and • :Jonathan A. Pearson and Rex- producers as well as actors. ford G. MQ9n, Director and Assist- As to his own career, Doherty ant Director of Admissions repces- started after he graduated from tively have planned a trip to high school in Peekskill, New York. Northern New York to interview He attended the Faegen Scb,ool of students interested in Union Col- Dramatic Arts in New York and lege, This trip is set for April then worked in several stock com- 9-13. panies. Don commented that the dramatic school is gaining in im- Pearson and Moon together have portance largely due to the dis- covered 210 schools and this iiin- appearance of the civic repertory erary will enable them to visit 14 theatre in many cities. , more. Schools that will be cov- Following his graduation from ered oil the trip include: Rome the Faegen School, Doherty worked Free Academy, Lowv-iJle Academy, in some more stock companies. Watertown High School, Gouve- Shortly after that, he was inducted· neur High School, Ogdensburg into the Army where he served High School, Canton High School, three years. Potsdam High School, Massena High School, Franklin Academy, Lauds Huston Tupper Lake High School, Saranac· sermon topic will be \Freedom and By the 1870's all land grant col- New Construction.\ Dr. Fulton \bas beld administr- leges in the U.S. had engineering courses. In some private schools tive posts for \Yale in China\ and engineering was taught also. Un- has taught religion and economics ion was one of the first small in three .colleges. He holds the de- colleges to put an engineering cur- grees of bachelor of arts, bachelor riculum on the record. of divinity, and doctor of phil- osophy from Yale University. Engineers Needed The college· choir, under the di- The need for engineers after rection of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, World War II hit it's peak last will sing during the service. year when American universities 0 graduated 50,000 engineers. All were placed without much trouble. Eeo Group to Hear Atomic Expert Talk Mr. W. H. Milton, Vice Presi- dent of General Electric, in charge of the Atomic Energy Program, will speak to the Economics club on Monday at 7:30 P·!Il.· at the Sigma Phi Place. He will speak on his e~periences as the General Electric representative in Wash- ing during the war dealin!;l\ with Congress !J,p.i;l the Government Agencies. , After the war,. Doherty appeared Lake High School, Lake Placid on Broadway in such plays as High School, The North Wood \The Traitor,\ \Apple of His Eye,\ School, Plattsburgh Htgh School, \The Late George Apley,\ \Happy and Ticonderoga High School. ------------~----~----------------------- The American Society of Engi- neering \Education undertook a survey shortly after World War II and estimated that by 1950 there would be a shortage of engineers. This shortage was offset somewhat by the 50,000 graduates but recent surveys point out that 30,000 new engineers will be needed each yea1· until 1954 because of the defense mobilization. The peak of engi- neers graduated will steadily fall. Dr. Compton attributed this to the fact that last year's high was caused by the G.I. bill students V~>ho had just completed their educa- . tion. Dr. Compton estimates that Affect Spring Sports This will affect Union's spring sports program consisting of fiv:e sports; baseball, track, lacl\osse golf, and tennis. Only the lacrosse squad fielded a freshmen team in the past and this will be changed to a jayvee team. However, fresh- men previously trained with the varsity teams in the other sports although they were' ineligible to play. Monday's meetir.:g of the E.C.A.C. settled the question of freshmen eligibility. Delegates of 91 of the Confel\ence schools, decided on a compromise settlement after some had pressed fol\ complete waiver of the fresh rule. Instead, schools with under 1000 male enl\ollment or with 650 males exclusive of freshmen were permitted waiver of .the rule upon application to President Asa Bush- nell. Approval of the application will probably be automatic; accord- ing to Wittner. Union falls into this category, which will affect 40% of the E.C.A.C. membership as there are 974 students enrolled. PrevlollSly Waived Eighteen of the member col- leges were granted waivers of the frosb rule at the last meeting. This recent action was recommended by the executive council of the body and was passed after a lengthy discussion. Of Union opponents, only Ham- ilton. in the past few years has employed freshmen with their var- sity teams. It is unknown just how many Union opponents this will affect. An unofficial estimate l1y the Concordiensis last night figured Williams, Middlebury, Ho- bart, St. Lawrence, Stevens, Hart- wick, and Colgate as opponents which may be affected by the rule change. ----0--- Parents Here April 21-22 The Delphic Society has desig- nated the weekend of April 21-22 as Parents' Weekend. At present most plans are tenta- tive with the following schedule having been announced: Rt>gistmtion Saturday morning. All Classes open to parents. Student activity offices openl6d fo1· inspection. Luncheon at fraternity houses. 1:80-2:00o-.R.O.T.C. drill. 2:30-Fresluna.n lacrosse; varsity Hendon summed up the work of the ·Freshmen Orientation com- mittee for the past year and sug- gested that the present system of upper-class advisors, having proven itself )msatisfactory, be discon- tinued. · Motions by Underwood for com- Debate F' avors Legal•· ZI·ng of Gambli·ng by 1954 only 17,000 men: will be graduated as engineers. track; !mal spring football soriinma.ge. 4:00-6:00-Tea at the home of President Da.vidson. Dinner at fraternity houses. 8:30--Mountebanks production of mittees for Improved public rela- • · . tions and investigation of the The motion, \Resolved: That~·,__---------------------------------- grounds and build~ngs were tabled Gambling Should Be Legalized\ and defeated respectively. How- was passed by a vote of 36 to 27 ever, upon Underwood's sugges- with 12 abstentions at the Philo- tion' the Council will recomment mathean's Parliamentary debate to President Davidson that the on Tuesday evening. The resolu- college Catalogue be revised and tion was proposed by Professor brought up to Q.ate. Arthur K. Davis and seconded by Discussions were also held on the Lawrence w. Levine. It was op- merlts of West College food and posed by Professor Harold A. Lar- the possibility of setting up a rum- rabee, who was supported by Klaus pus room In the new freshman · Eppler. dorm. Council will resume its activi- \Gambling Is Universal\ ties following Easter Vacation Professor Davis said that \gam· with much action as the efforts at bling is universal and stems from constitutional reform will reach a a basic psycho-social motive.\ l;t climax. cannot be eliminated by law, he ---<o · said, and the only question is Ca .stl•ng F. or· \HI'gh Tor\ whether or not we will regulate it. Most human acts lie in a gambling- Will Be March 29-30 · nongambljng continuum, he con- The Mountebanks will present tinued, and no arbitrary line can Maxwell Anderson's \High Tor\ as be drawn between the two. He their third a.nd final production of then gave eight specific reasons the season on May 10-12 a'nd 17~19. why gambling should he legalized: Casting will take place on Thurs- (1) To reduce corruption in pub- day and Friday after vacation, lie .officials, much of which re- March '29-30, at 7:30 p.m. Copies of sults from gambling' bribes. the play we availa'Qle at the re- (2) To reduce the element of serve desk at the library. fi·aud in -gambling. William Brandow, in association (3) To provide a new and large with Irwin Barg, are producing the source of tax re'V\enue. show for the Mountebanks · and (4) To provide a more rational Prof. Donald S. Jones will direct tiilif()rmity of laws, which are very the play, chaotic In regard to gambllng. (5) To bring the law into closer to bring human actions under ra- line with public morals. tiona! control. (6) To end public legislation of (2) Gambling is contrary to pub- morals, which can never be sue- lie policy because it leads to the cessful anyway. acquirement of property without the rendering of any service to so- (7) To provide a new source of ciety. education, gambling (which can (3) Gambling destroys the me- teach us about life which is a rale of any capitalist economy. It gamble)· subverts the capitalist standard 8) To eliminate class distinction which is \an honest day's wages which allow the rich man to gam- for an honest day's work.\ ble (on the stock market or at the ''Treason to Civilization\ race track) but deny this privi~ The claim that gambling can- lege to the poor man (who cannot· not be •eliminated is one of lazi- a.fford either). ness Larrabee said. Any tax reve- \Every Man a Capitalist\ nue which could be gained froni legalizing gambling would be Legalized gambling Davis con- tai!lted money and should not be eluded by offering everyone the touched by our society, He stated, chance to make money, \wilt save \Gambling is a voluntary surren- democracy and capitalism. Every der of intellectual choice; it is man a capitalist\ was the slogan treason to civilization\ and should ·he offered. therefor not be legalized. Professor Larrabee said that he meeting was opened to the \gambling is a serious social evil floor after the formal speeches and which needs to be combatted by ten members of the house were law \ He indicted .gambling heard from. Professors L.?.rrabee on the following three counts: and D!!.vis then summed up their (1) Gambling makes ownership positions, and .the vote was ta\ken of property in part ·dependent on and the resolution carried. The chance instead of foresight or Speaker of the House, Donald thought. This is contrary to the Bunce, opened the meeting at 8:10 basic effort of civilization, whieh is and adjourned it as 9:38. Dr. Compton urged students everywhere not to forget the ever- increasing need for engineers. 0 Concordy Awarded Safety Certificate The Concordiensis has received an a:ward for editorial excellence from the Lumberman's Mutual Casualty Company for its entry in the annual College Newspaper Con- test on Safe Driving. The Concordiensis was given honorable mention in the individ- ual editorial classification for an editorial which appeared earlier in the year. Eirst p1•ize winner in the class was Bucl\:nell University, while several other colleges from various parts of the ~ountry were also listed for hop.orable mention. 0 Dorm Rent Deadline Room rent of $50 for the second half of the current semester will be payable at the· Business Office · between the dates of. March 29 and· April 5 inclusive, during the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 12 noon and 1;00 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. A late fee of $5.00 will be due after April 5t~. \The Glass Menagerie.\ SUNDAY Chapel. 4:30--0rga;n recital by Dr. Tid- marsh. One of the highlights of the weekend will be the tea tendered by Dr. and Mrs. Davidson. At this time the .parents attendinng will be given the chance to ask ques- tions concerning any phase of cam- pus life including the students' position as regards the draft situ- ation. The Mountebanks wish to an- nounGe that the Saturday evening performance of \The Glass Men- agerie\ will be admission free and all parents are welcome to attend. The Delphics are presenting an awal·d · to the fraternity or that dormitory which has the greatest number of parents attending. Quazy Quote \A little Iearni:ilg is a dangerous thing; qut a little psychology is disastrous;\ ..-:Pbillip Barry

2 . ' <lrnnrnr Member As~oclated Col- legiate Preas and distri- butor ot the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na.- tlonal Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N, Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the sehool year, l!Jdltorlal Otttce,Washbuvn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered In the Schen<lc- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription 1 Oc a copy ; $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. SENIOR BOARD JAY N. COHN '52 ......... , ............................ Editor-in-C~i~f DON M. CRI•JGIER '51 ................................ Associate Ed tor MARTIN SIEf;RL '51 . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • • . Associate Editor DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 ...................... , .•. Mana,g!ng Ed!Jor WILLARD r. TAYLOR '52 00 .... 00 ....................... News Ed! tor JFROME GARTNER '52 ................................... Page Ed!tor MAR'VI;oi! L KOHN '53 ................................... Page Ed! tor JOHN J CASSIDY '53 .................................. Sports E~qor ROB,ERT C. SMITH '52 ................................ I;eaturMP E 1 or ALAN K. HADACK '52 ..................•........... Busm~ss • anager ROBERT B. GRINDLEY '51 ...................... Cnculatwn Manager JUNIOR BOARD • '5\ Cop\' Editor ARTH.UR :\T STC,CKl\,A::-;\ - ...................... · .. · · · · · d' MONROE siLVERMAN '52 ................. Assistant Feature E !tor LAWRENCE W. LEVINE '53 .•.....•.•..... , . : • ...• , Ex. change Editor JOSEPH K HANDLER '52 .•............. Assistant Bus! ness Manager J EO KUPPER\CH!>HD ·5~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Assistant Busmess Manager GEOR<l.E F. Rf.:DINC:TO:\' ·:;~ 0 0 0 0 0. 0. 0 0 Assistant nrrulation l\Ianager FEATURE STAl'F Tllomas Donlon, Peter Fyfe, Alfred Kingon, Myron Komar, John Moses. REPORTERS Irwin Barg, Phillip Beuth, James Carmichael, Alfred Goldberge~, Mar~in Gordon Herbert Hiller Wolcott Hubbell, Michael Kahn, Lew.1s Klem, Jerome' Klein, \Villiam 'Mohrmann, Martin Portnoy, David Sm1th, Her- bert Spira, llaniel Wdner. PHOTOGUAPHY S'rAFF Alan Forman, John Stebbins, Franlt Slmtsch. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, James DeS~rbo, Ch~les Little, Gerald Roberts, Daniel Siesel, Itohert SiJ\·erman. t.eurge V. 1 ubel. CIRCULATION STAFF Robert strand, Horace van Voast, George Puti?an, c:urtis Bates, David Steffanhagen, Cui ver Hayes, J. Lowell DaVis, \\ Ill Jam \\\inchester Joseph Martin, Robert i:ieydel. Where Do We Stand? The college waited with collective bated b~·eaths this week for the announcement expected from Waslungton cor;- cerning new draft deferments for college students. But 1t had not yet been released at press time last night. The essence of the plan was ~hat i.t wou~d offet: ~ test to all colleO'e students sometime this sprmg, With a rmmmum score entitling coilege men to continue in school another year. According to Unio nofficials, almost 90 per cent of o.ur freshmen should score high enough to be exempt from se1-v1ce under this plan and' increasingly larger percentages of the other classes would, on the basis of the test, be allowed to finish college before entering the armed forces. It is known that Draft Director Louis B. Hershey is working on a plan to exempt better-than-average students and it was to be announced by 1\larch 15. But yesterday came and went with no news. It might be interesting to note that last week Hershey spoke o nthe subject in the mad-west.When asked about de- ferments for college students, he was quoted as saying some- thing like \Why should v·:e do any favors for college men? Who are they?\ Say, Washington! Where do we stand ... ? Wanted: Data on Field House Little has been heard about the proposed field house in recent months, and we wonder if this lack of talk signifies lack of progress. It is some two and a half years since the project was begun and, though money has been coming in throughout that entire period, we do not seem any closer to a definite construction now than we were then. Anyone making a brief tour of the gym these afternoons would see clearly just how much the college needs improved athletic facilities. It is far too cramped to house all the sports teams trying to take their early spring workouts, and these crowded conditions constitute a definite safety hazard for all concerned. The present national emergency could of course make the ~onstruction of a field house at this time impossible. But if the building were to be used to the advantage of the AFROTC unit on campus, the college might receive a .gov- ernmental okay to go ahead. For Your Information FRIDAY, MAR. 16-Art Club, OC, 7-9 p.m.; Mountebanks Pro- duction, Tennpssee Williams' \The Glass Manegerie,\ Theater, 8:30 p.m. SATURDAY, MAR. 17-Freshman swimming, Union at Troy, 2 p.m.; Union College choir at Knox school, Cooperstown, Mountebanks produc- tion. \The Glass Menagerie,\ Theater, 8:30 p.m. SUNDAY, MAR. 17-Sunday serv- ice, Ureacher, Mr. Robert B. Ful- ton, formerly professor at Hua- chung University, Wuchang, China, MC, 11 a.m. MONDAY, MAR. 19-Daily assem- bly, William McDavitt, '51, \Trip to Europe,\ MC, noon; Movie <Mountebanks), OC, 4:30 and 7 p.m.; Committee on Economics Education, MC, 8 p.m. \Govern.- ment Controls,\ Prof. R. K. Gau- mitz of the University of Minne- sota. College community invited. No charge. TUESDAY, MAR. 20--Daily as- sembly, speaker, The Rev. Wm. Gold, \Grow Your Own Religion,\ MC, noon; Public hearing by the Student council constitution com- mittee on the question of the Tax .committee and the organization of the Student council, Hale house lounge, 7 p.m. Art lectur€, OC, 8 p.m., \Primitivism\; Placement dis- cussion and group meeting. Gen- eral Engr. bldg. 8 p.m. Corps of Engineers, USA and Liberty Mu- tual Insurance Company, WEDNESDAY, MAR. 21-Spring recess begins tonight; Freshman class meets with Dean· Huntley in the Memorial Chapel at noon; Len- ten service, \Foundations of Faith,\ Silliman hall at noon; Placement interviews, USA corps of engi- nPers, Wells House; Ad-interim scholarship rE>port due; ASME, EE-22, 8 p,m. THURSDAY, MAR. 22-WEDNES- DAY, MAR. 28 INC.-SPRING RE- CESS. . THURSDAY, MAR, 29-CLASSES RESUMED; Student-Staff art ex- hibit, OC, <Exhibits must be sub- mitted to Prof. Albright by Mar. 21 l ; Daily assembly, speaker, Prof. Harold A. Larrabee .{first in a series of three), \The Battle for the Minds of Men-Where It began,\ MC, noon. FRIDAY, MAR. 30--Dai!y assem- bly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Major Cushing will be in Sililman hall all day for officer recruiting <Prof. Klemm); Place- ment interviews, Wells house, At- lantic Refining Co.; .Art Club, OC, 7-9 p.m. · The Physics Society will meet on Monday, March 19, at 7:30 p.m. in Physics Lab 202 to continue the discussion of senior research prof- acts. All 6th term physics majors should at:tend. . FRIDAY; MARCH 16, 1951 .. SOUND AND FURY By Monroa Silverman Democracy is far from the easi- est form of government. ln times Hke these, when fear is prevalent and our security is perhaps day; they increase dissatisfaction and agitation, and they drive many democrats to the support of com- munism, Thus, the suppression of commu- nism by undemocratic methods leads, in fact, to the spread of com- munism and the restriction of de- mocracy. Yet we must prevent the spread of communism! How? The solution '-is not a new or novel idea. It was prepounded by gered, then mocracy is 'esp cially d i ff i c u It. c i a 11 y difficult. The conflict be- tween the desire to maintain free speech and the desire to protect ourselves f r o m the thl'eat to · Jefferson, Adams, Fra;nldin, Paine. DISTRIBUTED BY VAG Cullings f;om other Campuses Attention Senate mission: By Lawrence W. Le'Vine Crime Com- in Ditch Saved By Bottle of Scotch.\ The story goes on \A 12 year old bottle of scotch was the only thing that urged a horse out of a ditch into which he had fallen\ . Oh these English horses, Comment from the \Clipsheet.\ society offered by the expression of certain views, is difficult to re- solve. The temptation to prohibit free speech in order to protect ourselves is great. The major threat to our society today is believed to be com- munism, And communism is, no doubt, in basic opposition to many of our basic beliefs. It is an ideology which we oppose, and which we are attempting_ to comba:t with the best methods at our disposal. We must prevent the spread of communism in the United States. However, the methods we are using to combat communism are extremely dangerous. These methods-suppression and impris- onment of the Communist, restric- tion of his freedom of speech, de- nial of his civil liberties, persecu- tion of his friends, etc.-these methods aid the Communist in the accomplishment of his ends. They make him a martyr, and add strength to his cause. They es- tablish the precedent of denying certain freedoms to individuals be- cause of political belief-a prece- dent which could very easily be ex- tended to the denial of civil liber- ties to individuals of other opin- ions, and might result (as in Nazi Germany) in the ultimate loss of all liberties. These methods alien- ate the liberals and independent thinkers from the practices of the It is found in the Declaration o~ Independence and the Constitution of the United States. It involves faith in, and support of, the ideals which we profess. We must allow the Communist freedom of speech (no matter how ·Wrong We may be- indeed difficult to allow freeuuuu lieye his ideas to be. Ahd it is in- deed difficult to allow free speech to those who oppose our free so- ciety when many of our sons are dying in defense of that society.) We must combat and defeat com- munism in the free and open mar- ket of ideas, by offering democ- racy as an alternative.' This belief in democracy, in free speech, is not our weakness, but our strength! It is the basis of our way of life. In times of fear and hysteria, however, we tend to re- strict democracy in order to pro- tect it. Yet the greatest danger to democra,cy is in this very re- striction of it. We can defeat com- munism by allowing it full expres- sion, and combatting it with the iedas of democracy. We can be de- feated by communism only when we IQSC faith in democracy, when we are stricken by fear, and re- fuse to accept the challenge of other ieda.ls, but instead attempt to suppress them. The greatest threat to democracy today comes not from communism, but from our attempts to combat communism undemocratically. We are running away from our ideals, fro.m our strength-and thus towards our own destruction! The Wesleyan Argus last week was the scene of a \red herring hunt.\ A student's letter to the editor was as follows: \I have been very disturbed by your movie re- view column, which is definitely subversive and Un-American. The main feature of your column is the movie reviews, which are not con- structive criticisms, but pure and \Usually the stuff puts one in the ditch.\ • • . And More Information unadulterated attacks on the The Harvard Lampoon last week movies.\ went anti E;llizabeth Taylor all the A diploma registration slip and activities sheet has been mailed to all seniors. This material must be returned to the office of the re- corder not later than Wednesday, the 21st. Diplomas will be ordered during the spring recess and no student can be promised a diploma unless the registration slip is filed. Because of the large number of college graduates this June en- gravers must have orders early. Students are reminded that each diploma is individually embossed by hand. \It is time we stood up to the red way. Miss Taylor won, among menace and one of the ways we other Lampton prizes; \The Ros- can do this is by supporting the coe\ for \so gallantly persisting in f.!\eat American traditions; the con- her cat·eer, despite a total inability stitution, the flag, the bill of rights, to act.\ The prize last year went and THE MOVIES.\ ·to \Francis a mule. She also re- :f. :to :f. ceived \the most objectionable ingenue\ award, and the \most ob- Attention Stamp Collectors: If jectionable movie child award\ , .. anyone is over anxious to build up Its getting so she won't even be a good supply of South Korean able to stop at a Hilton hotel any- stamps, a Wesleyan student has one of the largest collections in the U:S. The Argus says to call the Alpha Delt house in Middletown. :to :to :f. A dispatch from a school in Pen- coed Wales reads \Horse Trapped more, The Syracuse Daily had a few \slips showing\ this week. Its classified ads ran, \Wanted Stu- dent to EAT on Tables.\ Letter From Abroad The diploma registration fee of $15 may be paid at the Business office during the week of April 16. Students expecting to charge this amount to their GI Bills must see Mr. Holmes personally in the busi- ness office. All seniors must report to the college bookstore not la.ter than c Ed. Note: The following excerpts are from a letter received by Dr. Gor- don R. Silber from Anthony V. Fiacco, June '50, w'ho is studying in Italy under a Fulb~:ight Award.) Dear Prof, Shortly after I wrote my last letter to you I began working on the detailed report of my travels here in Italy. You probably know that all Fulbright st11dents must present three Progress Reports to the American Commission for Cul- tural Exchange. The general out- line of my recent report follows: Field of learning: mathematics. Sponsoring Italian institutions: Scuola Normale di Pisa, Universita degli Studi di Pisa, Research pro- ject: my original research project was briefly .<1) to continue the study of mathematics and (2) to achieve a thorough acquaintance, understanding-, and appreciation of the Italian people. Modifications: formerly, I had intended to frequent only those courses which were specifically on the graduate level and to review independently mathematical topics already covered. However, I soon found it indispensable, for the suc- cessful assimilation of new ma- terial, to attend lectures dealing with topics the substance of which was already quite familiar. Not only do these lectures serve as a valuable rev,iew, but they simul- taneously acquaint me with Italian mathematical terminology, symbol- ism, definitions, etc. Italians themselves. The ·Italian people are interesting and friendly, easy to talk· to, and eager to ask and to answer questions. Thus, they have told me a great deal about themselves and about Italy, and I in turn have tried to give them an objective picture of us Americans and our way of life. Famous Chinese and American Foods LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595 My many friendships with Italian students and families have brought me to many private dinn-ers and social gatherings at their homes. Between these activities and par- ticipating in the frequent univer- sity dances, going to the movies, listening to the radio, and reading the newspapers, I find myself quite ~- :;:;:;::::;::::;:;::::::::;::::::-:;~~~:::::::_ well-informed as well as quite well- 1 --,.. ,.. - ,.. ,.. ,.. ,.. ,.. ,.. ,.. -,.. entertained. A I found no great difficulty in I S VE 1·0% this first period of my stay in Italy I .. on to adopt myself to university life I as well as to civic and social life. I Leading Brands of I have found the Italian to be WALLPAPERS quite helpful and cooperative, and I · I already feel that I know him, his I HARDWARE culture, and his language quite 1 PAINTS & VARNISHES wen. 1 HOUSEWARES Travel and visits to place of in- 1 terest; while the Biennale Art ex- I CAPITOL PAINT hibit was still in progress I wen1 I & H·ARDWARE CO, to Venice for three days. I saw the famous St. Mark's Church, the I 72 Doge's Palace, and the lagoon of J 6 State St. Ph. 4·8393 Venice (from a gondola). During -,..,..,.. -,..,..------- the . Christmas recess I went to Rome, made the Holy Year, and saw the traditionally famous parts April 21 and order caps and gowns. If a student expects to charge the rental to his GI bill, he :rp.ust re- port to the bookstore not later than April 10. No GI charges can be made after this date. A deposit of $3.25 is required when the gown is ordered; $1.00 is returned to the student on commencement · day when he returns his gown. :f. :f. If. There will be a showing of the • movie \The House on 992nd Street\ by the Mountebanks in Old Chapel on Monday. The picture will be shown at 4, 7 and 9. Admission is 25 cents. There will be a meeting of all pre-dental students Monday after- noon, March 19, at 4:ll0 p.m. in room 2d5 of the Biology Lab, it has been announced by Professor Leonard B. Clark. MAKE GRUPPER'S YOUR HEAD9UARTERS FOR YOUR eGIFTS •WATCH REPAIRING ePENS & PENCILS 185 Jay Street (Next to Fanny Farmer) Serving The Capitol District • Complete Line of Institutional Groceries WGY Food Products Albany. N. Y. Work actually done-attendance of courses: I regularly attend a'll.d follow the course of superior mathematics, infinitesimal analysis, and superior analysis. I frequent- ly attend the English course and the course dealh1g with financial mathematics; independent activity (outside the university): outside of university lessons and independent research at the university library, I have acquired much help in over- coming language obstacles from frequent conversations with the Of tbe city. I had the privilege al- so of seeing the Pope and the clos- ing of the Holy ,Poor and of hear- ing Christmas midnight mass at St. Peter's Chm'ch. Those, along with such experiences as seeirug the elabot·ate Duoma at Milan, the mystic paintings of Giotto in St. Francis' Church in Assissi, and the picturesque panoramas from Peru- gia, have already made my stay in Itaiy unforgettable. SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET Sincerely yours, ANTHONY FIACCO ''50 !A..,.........IIICCI:===============::::==:=::==c:.=:=::=z::::::a:::~ f I I I !

1951 many of com- of commu- methods of com- of de- the How? a. new or by Paine. of involves the ideals must allow of speech may be- freeuuuu hd it is in- speech free so- sons are society.) com- open roar- democ- in free but of our fear and to re- to pro- danger is very re- com- full expres- with the can be de- only when when and re- of ad attempt greatest comes ut from our running fro.m our o1,1r • and gowns. charge the b.e must re- later than ges can be deposit of the gown is to the · day of the • 92nd Street\ Old Chapel will be is of all after- :30 p.m. in Lab, it has Professor ERS eet of Y. FRIDAY, MARCH 16. 1951 -----~----------~------· Across the Board I I I I I I • Baseballers Prepare For Toug.h Schedule : _ By JACK CASSIDY I ' ~-----------------------· The Union CoHege varsity baseball team has been .drilling daily in the Gym for the past few weeks in a effort to round into form for their ruggelf''thirteen game schedule which begins April 21, at Syracuse. At the present ti~ne there are· 25 aspirants trying for berths. .~----------------------- Vete1·ans Have Been Lost March is here ->again, and the ri[ation's wire-services and maga- zines are choosing their Mentor Art Lawrence has lost a Righthander Phil McQuade who few key men from last· yeat·'s posted a 3-3 mark last year is squad, but ·has several returning ·ready t0 abs0rb most of the pitch- veterans and pvomising sopho- lng burden this season. He will mores out for the squad. Such. be backed up by Bob Faubel who men as Ed Carsky, Bob Staley, AI has seen limited action, and three eric a teams son in Wade, and Ernie Togneri have lefthanded sophomores, Hobart De- blackened as .graduated, and their Joss will be Puyt, Jim Hogan, and Dick Stark. was by scandal, felt. Carsky was second on the If DePuy.t does not work out on moundstaff, while Togneri and the mound he may be shifted to s p 0 r t s writers Wade held down the first and sec- an outfield berth where the tearri eould prevent the from continuing ond base positions. is definitely shallow. Gene t hi s f a r c i a 1 Although he has no definite nine Schwartzman is being considered established yet, Lawrence has been for the remaining outfield pos·ition. practice, .. ,, .. ·'' :''\'······'''··• The fact that m~ny ··bllicltticJiis experimenting with a squad led by \' such returnees as Bill Kaznowski, hail to tear up their All-Star pages . Cal Schmidt, Phil McQuade, Dick at the last minute, as a result of Munro, Walt Krupa and Bob Fau- the .bribe discovery, didn't stop beL them either.· Sherm White was Kaznowski, who saw some action considei•ed a cinch :fol.\ every All- as a hurler Ja.st year, is expected American squad, .yet he and· all .to cover left field again. Schmidt other stars implicated were im- will probably handle the catching mediat~ly di·opped from the l'Os- chores, although Paul Meader, a ters. sophomore from Albany Pharmacy, True, White, Warner, Roman is also· out for the spot. Munro and Co. didn't do anything to fur- and Krupa are expected to control tner the name of collegiate basket- the shortstop and thi-rd base po- ba!'l. But, what if the scandal had sitions. Krupa led the team in broken now instead of a month batting last year. ago The All-Star rosters would have been published with one or several of the accused cagers on them. A.wards Are Announced All of this proves one thing: a player is selected purely on the basis of the publicity he receives. A hoopster with e:lliemplary ability, Union College Athletic Director who competes for a small school, or one with a mediocre record has Hal Wittner announced, following very little chance of being ChOsen a meeting of the Awards Commit- as one of our premier college ball tee on March 12, that the following players. Another stereotype of men who participated in Winter All-America squads is that they Sports had received awards. must have sectional flavor, and Varsity Basketball since many sports writers don't James H. Carmichael, Richard 0. have a chance to :watch all teams, Davis, Capt., Robert S. Faubel, this complicates matters. William Kaznowski, Raymond D. All too often, a eager who can Pomeroy, A. Gerald Shapiro, Mgr., score 20 .points or more a game, Caryle J. Sherwin, Donald E. For- will .be given prefe1·ence over the sythe, Mgr.-elect, Gerald E. defensive ace, yet, a defensive O'Loughlin, Spencer K. Warnick, pla~er is consistently good at his G'lenn D. Kinns, Robert F. Mur- skill, whereas almost any bi-g ray, Eugene N. Schwartzman. scorer can be stopped. This can be '!aUa's were awarded Junior witnessed by North Garolin.a Franklin C. Chillrud, and Sopho- State's prolific .point ·producer Sam mores Mgr's.-elect David V. Du- Ranzino, who. was nominated as Bois and Robert M. Lea. one of this years hoop luminaries. Freshman Basketball Yet, in crucial games with Villa. nova, and more recently witll Robert 0. Adams, Gerald Baran- Sophs Show Promise Meanwhile, Lawrence is experi- menting with Ted Caldes and John Pardy at first, where Tog- neri's graduation has left a va- cancy. Caldes, who played in the Albany Twilight League last year, is a versatile player, having ex- perience in most of the other in- field salts. Gary Young, another sophomore, has shown promise at second and it would not be sur- prising to find him holding down that spot this year. Battling it out with Krupa for the keystone position is Bill Harris. Coach Lawrence feels that he has arranged the best schedule in some time, playing twin encounters with Hamilton, Rochester and R.P.I., while meeting Middlebury, Stevens, Massachusetts, Hobart, and Quantico Marines in single contests. The first home game will be April 25th against Middlebury. Last year's team -posted a 7-5· mark, but this edition has the ad- vantage of getting a jump in prac- tice and, if the weather holds out after the squad goes outdoors, it should be well tuned up for its initial encounters. DESK LAMPS Adjustable Incandescent and Fluorescent • SAVE SUPPLY CO. N.LT., Ra.nzino w~s stopped cold des, David B. Blum, Irwin N. Gert- by little !mown defensive spe- zag, Robert Gilfillan, Henry E. cialists. Kapmeyer, Edward E. Kraemer, Bill Mlkvy of Temple is prob- Joseph T. Wilkinson and William ably deserving of his recognition, E. Doll, Avron J, Gold, Martin L. since he is a phenomenal shooter. Schulman, candidate managers. Yet, I'm sure very few observers Varsity Swimming 501 State St. PHONE 6-4193 watched his defensive play, which Roy W. Clark, Mgr., Robert M. is far good. And, if putting the Diamond, Richard M. Johnson, Frosh Sports Call Coach Bill Ketz · wants all Freshmen, who a1·e inte1·ested ·in coming out for the Track Team, to report in back of the Gym on Monday, 1\larch 19, between 3 and 5 p.m. Baseball coach Art Lawrence and Lam·osse mentor Frank O'B1·ien would also like to see the Frosh take advantage of the new eligibility rule. Frosh to Bolster Union Track Team After one week of practice, the biggest news from the Track team is the proposed new eligibility rule for freshman. A total of 35 men have reported to Coach Bill Ketz thus far, and a good frosh turnout is expected to enlarge and balance the squad. Practice Limited With the oval still a quagmire, the harriers have confined their workouts to Alumni Gym, and a few jogs about the roads on cam- pus. Six men from last year's team have been lost. Newt Cul- ver, dependable miler and Art Hagar, who competed in just about any event from the sprints to the pole va11It, will be missed most. However, Coach Bill Ketz has high hopes for a winning season, since he has an all-around squad, composed of veteran performers and able sophs and neophytes. Co- Captains Abe Lakshin and Don Wilsey are expected to be con- sistent point winners in the two- (Continued on Page 4) FRANK FERRARO Wholesale & Retail Fruits & Produce 1231 CRANE STREET SCHENECTADY .... PHONE 6·1763 LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy Prescriptions \The College Students Drug Store\ Chemicals - Drugs Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET ball through the basket is any John H. Dnffy, Gerald G. Geismar, criterion for standout selection, Roger W. Hancher, Frank M. Mar- what about Dayton University's gan, Mgr.-elect, Robert 0. Dorse, Don Meineke, who has been• burn- Robert H. Kloth, Philip W. Metz- ing the paint off the rims in the ger, Werner Reiners, Richard M. N.I.T. He is conspicuous by his Stark. Irwin S. Barg, Asst. Mgr.- absence from All-American lineups. elect and Guy F. Cooper were · .An Arrow Shirt In spite of the inconsistencies of awarded \aUa\s. •' selection, sports ' fans still read Freshman swinnning these Press agents' nightmares with avid interest. Since Am- John M. Bird, ·George M. Brooks, erica's cage fans are great hero · John M. Boardman, Candidate worshippers, I suppose that All- Mgr., George A. Cole, James S. Star pages will become a yearly Farrell, Arthur S. Fink, Richard fixture. .Hartman, James H. Leitzell, Mel- However, I cannot help but feel, vin H. Shira. that since one runs into such spe-. -------------- cialization and sectional prejudice, All-American teams are quite' ridi- culous. But, since they are here to stay, I'd advise the fans to talte them with a grain of salt. I'd also recommend that all aspiriitg · All-Americans choose a coll-ege with a good publicity department. PHOTOSTATS DRAFTING SUPPLIES K & ~KERN, BRUNING • HAYDEN .Photocopy Serving Union's Men 'llWt For Yean See your agent on Campus ' ;• Waiches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired Makes A Man Look His Best In The Easter Parade! .. Before you leave for Easter vacation, be sure to get a supply of your favorite Arrow white shirts and Arrow ties at your Arrow· dealer now! Shirts $3.95 up Ties $1 up 3 The varsity stickmen, after two weeks of indoor practice sessions, are awaiting a break in the weather to begin. outdoor scrimmages. The new coach, Frank O'Brien, is anxious to get a look at his material in action, now that the boys have been \loosened up\ by calisthenties and gotten some practice in the fundamentals of the game. Causey Will Be Missed Among those lost from last year's squad, which finished with a mediocre 5 and 6 record, are Co- catains Tom Quinlan and Jerrr Rost, both attackmen. An-ether big loss to the team will be Walt Causey who has dropped out of school. Walt was nominated to play in thc North-South All Star game last season, although he was still a junior·. Stan Peschel and Ken Schneelock will also be lost to this squad because of scholastic difficulties. Herb Hufnagel, the high scorer for last year, wi'll return to lead the Union attack again. Herb averaged better than three goa:ls per game for the 1950 season. Some pf the other returning veteran;; are John Kennedy, Bill Winchester, Steve DiMarco, Bob Godburn, Les Couch and Norm Carr. Bill Greve has the inside track so far to re- tain the goalie position. Open With Cornell O'Brien hopes to have six prac- tice games before opening against Cornell on April 18. Princeton and Swarthmore have been scheduled James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street .. for the Easter Vacation. The sea- son has been cut to eight games this year, with the Cornell, Wil- liams, and Ho·bart c0ntests being the only ones to be held on Li- brary Field'. BC'n Thelin and Bob Larsen, the two high scorers for the freshman team last season ar-e making bids for varsity berths this year. Dick Heimann, the neophyte goalie, cim be expected to give Bill Greve some competition for the net tender's: slot. However, O'Brien is still hopeful that any of the men on campus who have any experi\ ence will try out for the team be- fore the season begins . Goff ers To Meet There '\Vii be an important meet- ing of all students interested in trying out for the golf team, on ·Monday, April 2 in the Trophy Rooin of the Gym, Freshmen are especially wged to attend. Excel- lent opportunities for advancement on tb.e tEam. r WI if! GOOD SHOES FOR g STUDENTS ancl FACUUY .r.· .... - .. ·,.:·-~ .. ·.·-~;··· .. ·1··· . . :· {· . rr, 'i i~ .. . ·:ioi!l .. ~- · ... ~ PaHon & Hall X-BAY FITTING 246 State St.-81nee 18811 • GENERAL HARDWARE • HOUSEHOLD GOODS . • PAINTS David Mahoney Company 209 State St., Phone 3-3691 129 S. Brandywine Ave., P~one 3-3692 She'll Jjl\:e Your \Looks In An ARROW WHI'fE SHIRT Tops For Styling ... Comfort. , o Fit! Yom· Easter-Sunday best .•. top favorite Arrow shirts and ties. Arrows. are tailored of fine, Sanforized· labeled fabrics ••• Mitoga cut for smooth, \can't hunch\ fit. In a wide selection of the most famous collar styles in the country! Y <>u 'II need a few for yom· Spring wardrobe plus some wrinkle-resistant Arrow Lies. Stop in for yours t()rlay. UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 • 'Engraving, tool Jay Jewlery Co. ARROWsHIRTS&TIES . ' ' NUSBAUM'S 44 7-451 STATE STREET .. 114 State St. near Ferry ._ ______ FOR ARROW 'UNIVERSITY !iFVLiiS _,_,....., ___ -s

4 Noted F,olklore Expert Track <Continued from Page 3) D ll ·vers Talk Tuesday mile and discuss events. respec- e ; · ; ' tively. Bud Burnham, if he comes out for the squad, should add Louis C. Jones, Director of the New York State His- depth in the sprints and pole torical Association in Cooperstown, will deliver a public lee- vault, while Sig Giambruno is an ture concerning primitive American folklore and folkart ·experienced hurdler. Tuesday night at 8 o'clock, in conjunction with a similar art Most of the remainder of the exhibit, in Old Chapel. squad is a question mark, depend- Dr. Jones is probably the out- <b ing m:ainly on the showing of un- state folklore. He has written a Northeast. Museum Conference .of rted sop omores an res men, standing authority on New York ,. t · h d f h book for children entitled, \Spooks t~e Amertcan Museums . Assocra- Perhaps the biggest \if\ is Senior f th V 11 , 1 \!on, and a member of mnumer- Ed LaMay, who was a premier 0 Wh~le :n e~~sistant professor of , able folklore and historical groups. quarter miler two years ago, but suffered a broken leg during foot- English at Albany State Teacher's After attending the Albany pub- bal lesason. College he built up one of the two lie schools, Dr. Jones received his largest' folklore archives in the A.B. from Hamilton a.nd his M.A. Sophs Add Depth state. He is editor of the quarterly and Ph.D. from Columbia. of the New York State Folklore o The Class of 1953 has several · Society. J • p H d candidates, who have the .paten- Under Dr, Jones, the New York UlliOr rom ea s tial to be consistent winners. Dick State Historical Association has be• Co } t• p] Dolan should prove to •be a strong come one of the most active his- mp· e Ing ans school. John Pape and Bob Mur- torical associations in the United miler, having done 4:31 in high States. A program is conducted Arrangements are being com- ray are top-notch quarter milers, for the junior high schools as well· pleted for the Junior Prom, ac- while John Trotter will be hard to as adult education program. There cording to Leslie Coach, chairman catch in both the 100 and 220. are three important libraries and of the prom committee. The prom • Soph George Batkiewicz is trying three museums. is scheduled for May 4 in Alumni his hand at the discus. gymnasium. Hamilton Alumnus Whiel no band has been signed The yearlings, who await only Dr. Jones is a vice president and yet, arrangements are nearly com- an Eastern College Athletic Con- member ·of the Executive Council pleted and an announcement' ference directive to acquir·e eligi- of the American Folklore Society, should be forthcoming shortly. bility, can really fill in the gaps. a Fellow of the Rochester Museum Several bands are being considered. Ed O'Mealey and Bill Morse will of Arts and Sciences. a Trustee of Besides Couch, the prom com- relieve Ketz's worries in the shot- the Society for Colonial History, mittee consists of Williams De- put. In the field events, Len President of the Council of the laney, flowers; Reuben Johnson,, Klingberg and Tom Giambruno Philos Defeat Dayton Debaters Union College scored a victory in debate over the University of Day- ton, Ohio, this weekend when a Philomathean team consisting of Klaus Eppler and Monroe Silver- man defeated a team from Dayton at Union. The debate was on the nati·onal topic, \Resolved: That the Non- Communist Nations Should Form a New International Ot'ganization,\ and was judged by Professor Wil- liam B. Bristol of the history de- .partment. A non-decision debate I with Dayton was also held on Fri- day night with Richard Lee and · Norman Scull debating for Union. I Four members of the Philo- rnathean Society and Professor 1 Erwin von Schlichten spent the : weekend in New York attending a, debate tournament held at Brook- . publicity; Richard Genther, tick- h!J,ve good high school records. ets; David Walrath, program fa- Frank Kiwus is being counted on vat's: George Martin, decorations; in the dashes. · Paul Wood. band; and Gerald The Dutchmen will play a siX O'Loughlin. arrangemPnts. meet schedule, and compete in the In addition to the band, the post season New York State theme and the florist for the prom championships. They open against will be announced shortly after the Rochester, April 21, at Alexander Easter recess. Field. AI! scheduled Saturday classes will be cancelled on May 5. L. G. BALFOUR 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES • RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN SO Mlll'l'a.y Ave. Waterford. N.Y. PHONE TROY -ADAMS S-2623 Ferro's Restaurant Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE FERRO . Proprietors 1115 Barrett St •. • Specializing in IT AllAN-AMERICAN FOOD Phone 6-9554 ~,n __ c_ol_leg~·- ___ ~~~~~~~~i~- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~i5hflflli!i111lfulfihih ~:lfU)f!1lill1lflllftn1fi::lllflfUl£fh1Jtl1lr£ ~~~- ---- -~----- -- -- Complete Banking Service The Citizens Trust of Schenectady, N. Y. Mai-n Office State Street (opposite Jay) Bellevue Branch (Top of Broadway Hill) FRIDAY, MARCH 16. 1951 ,. Eve. MONDAY 'l'UESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY I•'RIDAY SUNDAY '' 7 :ou Navy Show Gal Paris Navy ~how Science Gal P:;t;ris Sports 7:15 Sports Sports Sports Sports 7:30 Gar~~t Club Garr~~t Club Gar~~~ Club Gar.net Club Garnet Club 7:45 \ \ 8:00 Philo. Debate Music ~'i:l- 3 Idols + 1 Band time Hit Parade Sym\~h6ny 8:15 .. limited .. .. 8 :30· Jazz Show Platter or ·Man Who . , Stricgy Inst. Kratz Trio .. 8:45 \ Favorites Comes Around \ .< ~:00 News News News News News .. s :05 Concert Hall Concert HaN Concan Hall Concel't Hall Concert Hall \ \ u :30 .. \ . \ .. \ \ 9:45 .. .. \ \ .. ... 10:00 .. .. .. . .. .. \ 10:15 .. \ .. \ .. .. 10 :31l .. .. .. .. .. \ 10:45 .. .. \ .. .. .. - ---11:00 Mania Hequestfully AnY!P,ing Goes Sho-A;,time 1\iousi<- of Medic'al 650 Club 11:15 \ .. Yours Et\rope 11:30 \ .. .. \ 11:45 \ .. \ .. .. .. 12:0G Dreamt! me Dre~~time Dreamtime Dream time Dream time ------ 12:15. ... 12:30 I \ \ .. \ \ 12:45 .. .. \ \ \ Flyers Buy Plane SAVE 1-0% •• - ON.FOOD COSTS ....... \ .SAVE 10% An Aeronca \Champ a .second-- hand plane, was purchased last week by the Union College Flying ' club. This plane will be in useall : semester for the purpose of pre- · flight and fiight training for those interested. NOTT RESTAURANT AN'D BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 \Meet ,and Eat af EDDI·E'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady,, N. Y. The Flying club will meet Tues- day at 7:30 in C. E. 304. FOR All YOUR GIFT NEEDS MEAL TICKEtS-$5.50 for $5.00 Serving Union Since l9l J GAZETTE PRESS Printers \Mr. Bell, 1 heard every word you said- distinctly/\ 75 YEARS OF TELEPHONE SERVICE On the evening of March 10, 1876, on the top floor of a boardinghouse in Boston, the telephone carried its first intelligible sentence. It seemed like a miracle to our grandparents and grc:at-grandparents. Yet today, the telephone is a part of our everyday living. And that is the real miracle- the fact that the tele• phone has come to mean so much to so many people in so many ways. The. telephone is an indispensable tool of b_usiness and government - to- day's tremendous job of production and d.efense could not be carried on without it. It serves in minor emet- gencies and great ones. It helps main- tain family and community ties. And it keeps right on growing and improving.~\' Never iri the history of the teleR phone has it been so valuable to so many people as right now. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

