Cagers Meet Williams Tomorrow Hale House Xmas Dinner Thursday Founded at Onion Coll~ge in 1877 PRICE 10 CENTS Vol~ 79, No. 10 SCHENECTADY, N, Y .• FRiiDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1951 Markson '27 Notes Honor Amid Boxers At Allr..Sports Dinner Council Proposes Informal Dance For Winter Hop Striking a keynote that professional bo:&ing' is a:n honorable business composed. of sincere and sensitive men, main speaker Harry Mark- son, managing director of the International Boxing Club, · provided stimulating and in• teresting entertainment for the 250 :students and alumni at the first Block U-Schenel1- tady Alumni sports dinnev. GJ;aZia.no Cheers Y~uth By Walter G. Salm The Student Council decided to hold a Winter Week- end in February at its meeting Tuesday night. At the same time, action was tabled on a suggestion by Colonel Edward Soulliere of the AFRO.TC to hold a military ball, as it would necessitate the use of student tax funds. Ho.nor Group Elects Four Four men have been · elected as new members of Phi Beta Kappa fraternity,· national honor group for arts and science students, Prof. . Frederick L. Bronner, l')ecre- tary of the local chapter has announced. Special Meeting Tuesday It was decided that the Winter Weekend will consist of an in- formal dance to be held February 23 in the gym. The general con- sensus of opinion was that if the council sanctioned both affairs, neither one would attract a large enough crowd to make it succesful. A special meeting was called by President Dave \Valrath for next Tuesday for further discussion with Colonel Soulliere and other in- dividuals on the campus in order to reach a final decision concern- ing the proposed military ball. It is believed that the ball would be W<'lcomcd by the stud('nts ns a novel idea and an opportunity to attend a formal without the great expense normally involved. l)l[r, Markson cited the example of the tough Rocky Graziano who was asked· to v;isit a badly in~ured youth in a New York hospitaL Being in Milwaukee .fighting at the time, Rocky said that he'd visit the boy in two or three days. Next morning the fighter appeaved in Markson's New York office and an13wered the surprised promoter's query about his rapid tri.p to New York by s!l·ying that h€ had to bum a ride to Chicago in order to catch a plane to New York and made a more rapi!l trip :to the hospital. Markson, Union '27, also. stated that many sportswriters of today are responsible to some degree for the current troubles found in in- tercoliegiate athletics. By this he meant that the tremendous pub- licity given to intersectional and other ·contests has given rise to the attitude that teams must win at any cost. Gazette Photo Harry Markson, in. front, ma.in speaker at first All-Sports dinner, shown flanked by Frederielt L. Bronner, left, toastmaster, and George Ol'ick, co-c·hail!man of the affair. In back standing ar~ Ray Miller, who narrated the Lolii!i-Marcia.no films, and John Kennedy, president of the Block \U\ Society. The seniors elected are Norman C. Blais, Keith A. Hutchins, Leo Kuperschtnid, and Martin Portnoy. Several more men will be elected ' in the Spring, Prof. Bronner an- nounced. Blais, from Springfield, Ma!!s., is a Physics Major. He is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity and he was president .of the Flying Club. The council is receptive to any opinions and ideas the students might have and would appreciate any and ali comments. Jay Cohn was appointed head of a general committee for the planned Winter Weekend. ·Ten ·Years Ago Today--- What Were You Doing? Library Trim Being Fixed Two Liberal Arts Hitchins, fror:n Schenectay, is a Liberal Arts student. He was as- sistant manager of the Cross Coun- try team, played freshmen basket- ball, is a member of the Block \U\ Society, and of the Spanish Club. He belongs to Theta Delta Chi fraternity. No Decision on Forllims The question of compulsory gym for freshman R.O.T.C. students and that of dormitory rebates from the previous year was tabled until Walrath has had an opportunity to discuss the situation with Dr. Davidson. Show Fight Fibn Today marks the tenth anp,iver- <$ sary of the bombing of Pearl Har- WRUC PI Accompanying the main speaket\ bor which involved the UI!ited · . ans was Ray Millet, a referee on the States in the second World War. · · New York State Boxing Oommis- Most of us hadn't turned double J s • sion staff. Ra3>\ is one of today's · figures yet, but we ail have bold a· m . essl· on prominent officials, having handled recollections of that unforgettable · · · • the last Pep;Saddler fight and is a Sunday afternoon. f t f . ht b · th Rex Stewart, former first trum- ormer grea r 1g er, emg e.· we. have com. e a long way in the 1 t kn k · t Ji · pet player and soloist for the Duke on Y man ever o oc ou mmy t\dea of world ct'tizensht'p -since j · -. Ellington band, will play in a am McL_armn. then. We see on -our campus -today si session with the campus mu cians Miller gave a running com- ·men from more than ten- distant Wednesday evening in tb.e s.tudios mentary for the film of the Louis- countries who are working, study- of WRUC .and at the Ratlulkeller. Marciano fight, replacing the sched- ing, and living together· 1 1 f th Ell' t d The Concordl 'enst's polled several S nee Stewart e t e mg on uled Ruby Goldstein whtJ cancelle · b · d h h b 1· · d 1 Students this Pa . st wee!• to see wha. t an , e . as een 1V1ng an p ay- Repair work has begun op. the marble trim in the library as a result of several pieces having fell this past week, librarian Helmer L. Webb has annaunced. Work began early this week and will continue into sometime next week. Mr. Webb regretted that the noisy work comes at a time when many hour exams are scheduled, but he reassured students that it was completely unmeditated. Probably Caused l:ly Heat Kuperschmid, from Chappaqua, N. Y., is also a Liberal Arts stu- dent. He was Business Manager of the Concordiensis, a member of the Publications Board, the Stu- dent Council, and of W~UC. He is a member of Kappa Nu frater- nity. Portnoy, froin Greenfield Park, N. Y., is a Pre-Med. He is a member of WRUC and the Con- cordiensis, and belongs to Kappa Nu fraternity. There was a general discussion on the advisability of continuing the forums in Monday chapel, but no decision was reached other than to continue them as plannPd. A resolution was passed to send a letter to librarian Helmer L. Webb requesting that more study tables be placed in the library as the pre- sent supply is not meeting the stu- dent demand. his appearance because of his . ' · i th t · ·t ea Ju t re they were doing on that December mg n e rt-Cl Y ar · s - mother's death. cently he played a very successful Fred Bronner was the toast- 7 · jazz band ball at the Circle Inn I t Ralph Ozeld-'Beta Theta Pi and on Sundays he has. been play- master and did his usual excel en · ---a,--- Speculation as to the cause of deterioration has blamed heat in the building. During the first 30 years of the building's history, it was unheated. Heat was gradually Brl·stol Descri·bes added and in the last 15 years. d t . d t HELP Student-\! was In Nagoya, 1 ·ng at· the Merry-go_-round Inn in job of intro uc ·1on an · s ory · . Japan. When the news first came North Hoosic with a local group ~~ f h out I was in class, my res man . of musicians. These Sunday after- year in high school. Just before noon sessions have been wen at- noon the teacher notified us that tended by the student musicians there was an Important announce- from Williams and Bennington ---o~·--- Nicoll Tells Judges' Job . ment and all the pupils were takel;l · Colleges, along with the amateur outside to an athletic field. An and professional muslcia.ns of the · amplifier attached to a radio was tri-city area. playing a Navy march. W.hen the march concluded the announcer re- Broadcast on WRUC Judge William Nicoll of the, ported that Japan had attacked Schenectady Cliildren's c 0 u r t, Pearl I-Iar!>or, anCJ that Japan was . !!Peaking during no_on-day chapel, . at war with the United States.\ yesterday, summarized the ac- Bill Kishimur--Phi Delta Theta tivities of that court. Rls talk HELP Student-\Wh~n I got up was part of the Union Coliege that morning (December 8 in Citizenship responsibility program. Japan) I turned on the radio. At about 7:00a.m. an annouJ:).cer broke The New York State )egislature into the- prograll\ then on the air, passed a law enacting children's and announced that Japan was in. courts on April 10, 1922, following a state of war with the United an affirmative vote of a state- States, and that Japanese Naval wide referendum the preceding nd Air forces had' attacked Pearl year. Among the responsibilities of Harbor. When 1 went to school the co1.1rt are the'exclusive jurisdic- (the fifth grade) ·I heard nothing tion over delinquents under 18 until the principal called a meeting yeats old; power to puli.ish parents ·of all the pupils at about 11:00 Play-ing with Stewart will he the members of the pastel trio Includ- ing Pete Kratz, Larry G·ray, artd Mike Rabasca, plUs La:1•ry Rock- and, Chick Josephson, Bob Jen- nings, Steve Fink -.nd any others WhO tnay wish J JOin the group. The radio broadcast will go on the air from the YRUC studios: at 8:30- 9:00 p.m. during. which time there will be an interview with Stewart, and a general j:ml session for all musicians· interested. The \warm up\ .for the broadcast will begin at 7:30, and all those interested are invited to come and li-sten. Sub- ject to tax regulations, the group will move to the Rathskeller. who are negligep.t in the care of a.m. ·their children; aiJ.d' power to com- Herb Scmnert:i:-Phi Sigina Delta For many years Rex Stewart was .pel .parents to sUpport their chi!- -''On SundaY afternoon, December one of the. main-stays of the Elling- dren. 7, 1941, I was listening to the ton brass section as trumpet soio- Generally successful The last activitiy of the court, Nicoll asserted, consumes about 75% of its time. The court's right to enforce su,pport of children has been designed to insure each chiJd's inainten~nce. Dodger\Giant pro football game on ist, having been featured on many the radio. I can remetnl:!er it of IPllington's famous t'ecords. He vividly. Ace Parker of the Brooks has also recorded with his own .passed to Percy Schwartz in the band under the name of R.ex Stew- end .)<!'one but Hap.k Soar of the art a!1d His Big Seven, with many Giants intercepted and ran the ball pick-up groups around New York, out to the 12 yard line. Right. and with the Fletcher Henderson :after that the Japanese declared band of the late twenties. He can war oli the United States.\ play almpst .anything f.rom dixie there has been a great deal of heat in the building. Latin Democracy Mr. Webb also thought that this was likely the first such rPpair Dr. William Baker Bristol, As- work in the 76 year history of the sistant Prof\essor of History, de- library. Its cost will run about . livered the f!J:\st of a series of three $1000. It is interesting to note that talks on Latin America in Mem- the library is one of the buildings orial Chapel Tuesday noon. The selected as a campus atomic bomb lecture was entitled \Latin Am- shelter. erica: More ot\ Less Democracy\ An exhibition of medieval manu- and will be continued on December scripts will be on display in the 11, while the final talk, scheduled library starting next week as part for December 18, will be \Com- of the annual Christmas showings. munism in Latin America.\ Included will be Nuremburg Bible In noting the ups and downs of dating back to 1476 and Psaltm· South American political demo- which was written about 1400. cracy, he asserted that such coun- Sevet·al single sheets from books tries as Mexico, Brazil, Uruguay W'm also be exhibited. The oldest and Chile have made definite im- is a sheet from a Vulgate Bible of provement along democratic lines 1210 which was used in England. since World War II.• The library is planning to add to its colorful display of these manu- \National Sport\ scripts. In commenting on the constant Symposium Next week's issue of tb.e Con- cordiensis will feature the sec-- ond of a series of symposium's which was started in last we'ek's Issue. Tile topic of this panel will be: What Shouid be the Di- rection of United States Far Eastern Polley? threat of rebellion, Dr. Bristol re- ferred to the President of Ecuador, who called rebellions: \the people indulging in their national sport.\ In .Mexico, which country he visilted in 1949, the speaker ob- served defeated candidates sending congratulatory notes to the victors for the first time in Mexican his- tory. ---'-o--- Philos Travel To U.S.M.A. The Philpmathean Debating So- ciety will travel to the United States Milltary Academy at West Point Friday evening and to Vas- sar College Saturday morning to participate in their 21st and 22nd intercollegiate debates of the sea- son. The teams will consist of Monroe Silverman and Eliot Lo- shak, affirmative, and Conra!l Schminke and Norman Scull, nega- ·tive. The teams of Lawrence Levine and Silverman., affirmative, and William Ketchum and Scull, nega- tive, returned last Sunday from an upper New York state trip. The debated before Oswego State Teachers Colelge and Cornell Uni- versity on the topic, \Resolved: That the Federal Government Should Inaugurate A Permanent System of Wage and Price Con- trols.\ The Oswego debate was not judged while Union split with Cor- nell. ConcludE\ Friday Night Next week will conclude the in- tercollegiate season with a debate against Amherst on Tuesday at Amherst, Mass., and a debate at home against Oswego. The group is also maintaining its semi-weekly radio broadcasts on WRUC and they will be heard Monday night. While the court has been a:bl(} to straighten out ' most cases b1·ought b~:fore it, lack of facili~ ties deters it from dealing .suceess- ftlllY with many youths who fU'e emotionally disturbed. Students interested in further discussion wer11 encouraged to meet with Judge Nico1l at his -o:tftce. Al Wolfson~! nl: Sigma Delta; ~ to progressive jazz, but he seems' \What was I d.ling .on Pearl F.iar- tp tend towards ttie mqre sophis. bor Day? I was traveling from my ticated forms of small band swing., aunt's hon:ie in the Bronx to Nor- In h~s sessions with the campus walk, CpnP.c;!cticut by car, the after- musicians he will .probably f'eature noon that the news came. What is all styles of ja.Zz, from the -classics even fresher in my mind however such as \When The Saints Go 1s the fine my father received for·. Marching In\ and \Hig):l ·Society,\ ·running a stop light in Pelham to the more modern ja.zz numbers Manor: .such as \Robin's Nest.\ Featured on the panel will be Ralph Ozeki and Bill Kls~ mum, the two Japanese HELP students, Pat Laksbmlnarsu, from India, Foster Doane, IJaw~ 11ence Leveine, Davis Gl'iffith, and Herbert Sch.mertz. The syin- posium wm. present views de- fending the admiinstra.tion, ad- vocating recognition of Red China to with\h'llwa.l of troops from Korea.. Dr. Bristol asserted that our own state depar~ment is following the policy of giving recognition to any controlling power hi Latin Am- erica, although we may not ap- . prove of the form of government employed. In closing, the speaker said that the politically stable countries such as Uruguay and Chile have the greatest amount of political de- mocracy, while an unstable nation like Brazil may have more social democracy than there now exists in the t,Jnitecl States of America. The Philos have debates planned for· next semester against Utica, Willia,ms, Brooklyn,. Swarthmore, Bryn Mawr, Harvard, and Welles- ley. The annual pariamentary de, bate is scheduled for March 4 on the general topic of federal aid to education. Dr. Carter Davidson and Prof. William M. Murphy are the faculty members in the debate . .......

2 Qlnutnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and dletri- butor of the Collegiate DlgeBt. );ational Adver- tising RPpre>e\t:ttive: );a_ tional Advert bing Service Inc., Cullege Pul..>llshen; Representatice, 420 Mad!- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of tht school year. lSESJOU DONALD E SCII\VAR'F.l. '5~ WILLARU G. TA YL!lR '5~ JOI!!'l J. CA::!Sll>Y ·~3 .... JOI!::-1 l'. EI'::'\:\/EiW ·:.~ MO~ROE !'I 1.\'Elll\!A); '5~ ALA:--< S. FLllC\1A;>.; ·;,3 ... GEORGE J. \\\Hl'HEL '53 GEOHUE: F. i:EDI:'\UTO:'\ ·;;~ Editorial Office. Washi.Jt.tm Hall. Cn:on College. l'l.tb- lkatiotl uffil:e, The C1a- zet te Pre~s. 33! State St. Et.tc..:rl~d iu the ~Ch(:)II~C­ t<ttly Po!St Offke as S<lc- u~;<.l <._:l:Ls:; ~lail !\latter, ~,,t_,..,lTiption tOe a t'Ul JY: $3 rear d.,liver<·d any- whore lll the Cui tetl ::ltates. BO,\lt ll l~ditur :tt l~hicf AS\\<'cia h• Eclitor . ..................... !\'('\\.':.; Editor ••••.•••• 1'3Jiul'tl::) Editor . . . . . . . ~l·atur l' I:ditur Phntor,-rnph v E<litor A{'ting BusillPR:-: JI~lnagt•r ...........• L'trl'UlatlOJI -'lUiiO.g~r JL'i\IOH BOAUIJ lllARTI:-: B. GOHllo:-; ''4 .............. . ALFHED L. llOLDBEllGEH \:il . HBRBE:HT L. Hl'li{A '5·1 .. Aosl•tant ::Uak~·L·p Editor . . .A.ssi...,tant Cop-y ELlitor A:_.;sistant Cup~ I:dilur . . A~siBtant ~·port~ Editor .As~istant: Ft•aturt:' Etlitor Exchange Editor . . . . . . . . . . l·~x~...bangt' E1iitor ..:\!'<si .... tattt Bu:-.ine ... :-3 )la.nager ... As~iHtnnt Ci-rculation :\lnnager IHWIS l:i. BAHG '53 ...... . ALI•'HEil 1!. KI:-.:<;u:-; ';3 ... . H-ERBI·:HT L. I!ILLE:H \5~ HOW A TIP HHODY '5~ .... ROBEH.T SIL\'EIL\1.\:'-o: '53. HURAC'E VA:'\ \\OAST '5~ JLE!'O!tTERS Richard. HuitnanH, I ... e\\ i8 Klt:in. Eliot Lo~hak. :\lartlJJ l'uttrwr •. -\.rthur Rosenfeld, Alfreli :-\<:ott, LluJJald SiiJHnun~. ll,t\'Jtl Srn1th, .\rthu r Stud<· man. ('rB RE!'OR'l'El{S Peter Adler. ~lan·i11 Boris, Arthur J<'eldman, JI..,rbert Uu•ton, Mu<>tiu Hauser, '.Vard Jones, Gary Katz, Richard Kraft, Daniel :\Ianning, Ian l\lacDonald, Herbert Williams, \\\alter Salm, ::ltewart Robinson. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, llol.ert Bt>dt, Ln~Vren<·e GreenbeEg CIRCU-LATION STAFF Curtis Bates, J. Lowell Davis, Joe Martin, David Brown, James l'itz- maui-lce, ruchard Borst, Roi.Jert St>y<.lei. A Disgraceful Exhibition For Your Information A very \Vorthwhile attempt was made on .1\Ionday's noon chapel to arouse student intet·est in important affairs. Three students on the platform carried on a discussion of a recent article in \Time l\Iagazine\ entitled \The Younger Gener- ation.\ FRIDAY, DEC. 7 - Daily Assem- bly, recital, Dr. E. A. T!dmarsh MC, noon; Choir Rehearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; Christian Science Church Lecture, MC, 8:15 p.m., Speaker, Mr. Thomas Hurley of Louisville, Kentucky. SATURDAY, DEC. 8 - Varsity Basketball, Union vs, Williams at Schenectady, 8:30 ,p.m.; V~·sity Swimming, Union vs. RPI at Troy, 2:30 p.m.; Unio;n College Christian Assn. Conference with Vassar, Sil- liman Hall; U. S. Navy Aptitude Test, CE 106, of three) MC, noon; Faculty Coun- cil, President's Office, 4:30 p.m.; Student Council, OC, 7:30 p.m.; Varsity Basketball, Unioil'·vs. Am- herst, at Amherst, 8:15 p.m.; American Rocket Society, CE 106, 8 p.m. WEDNESDAY, DEC. 1~ - Varsity Swimming, Union vs. Hamilton at Schenectady, 3:30 p·.m.; Choir Re- hearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; Christian Assn., Silliman Hall, 7:30 p.m.; AIEE (13chenectady Section), EE 22, 8 p.m.; Delphics, Bailey Hall, 7:30p.m. The m·ticle in \Time\ was generally unfavorable to our generation. The students in Char:>el went a long vvay to confirm that judgement. Jay Cohn, chairman of the Stu- dent Council's chapel committee, invited Dave Walrath, Jerry O'Loughlin, and Art Rosenfeld to lead a panel discussion on the article. After short introducto1·y addresses by the panel, discussion was thrown open to the floor and was car- ried on for anothel' ten minutes. Immature Reaction It's thit5 \1Tite1·'s opinion that the presentation from the panel was interesting and stimulating. There was a nucleus of students attending who listened to the discussion with the respect due any chapel speaker and who can·ied the ideas outside of chapel. But, unfortunately, there was a great body of those attending who talked continually through the program and distracted those around them. There was one obnoxious senior who was throwing pennies on the platform throughout the program in a display of dis- respect and disinterest. It's almost inconceivable how one who has reached l1is senior year could possibly be as im- mature. ignorant, and belov..- college level as this senior. It was Tevol ting almost beyond words. If students continue to display this sort of conduct, I don't see how they merit any consideration from student leaders or the administration. It is unnecessary to plan in- teresting and informative chapel programs when the stu- dents \von't respond. Students object to being treated as young and immature, but their conduct doesn't indicate that they should be treated as anything better or older. Compulsory class attendance and compulsory chapel have been abolished successfully elsewhere, but it's doubtful if that could be achieved here. \C'nion students during last Monday's program indicate that they epitomize the worst side of the \Younger Generation\ as depicted by \Time.\ D. E. S. Let's Pay Activity Leaders There are some positions in the activities here at Union which deserve more than the honor they carry witli them. The people that occupy these positions know the time they must put in to do a creditable \job. The jobs I have in mind are Editor of the Concordy, Station lVJanager of WRUC, and the General .:\Ianager of the Rathskeller. The job of the editor of the Concordy is many-fold. Let's take this as a case in point. With countless things to do, the editor puts in at least 20 hours a week, and many times more than that on occasion. No editor begrudges this time because he loYes the work attached or else he would never accept the position. ' Payme~t co.uld be in the form of a scholarship or grant, or perhaps It might be taken from the advertising 1·evenues brought in by the paper. Last year the Concordy turned back $1,000 to the Student Tax Committee. Why not take it out of that? Big schools pay their editors almost extravag·antly. Small schools like Amherst and Hamilton find a wav to pay their editors and find that they have revitalized their activities. Those three positions mentioned previously cel'tainly deserve more than the honor attached t0 the job. Let's take cognizance of the time and energy consumed in the furtherance of these positions by g-iving them financial support. A. L. G. SUNDAY, DEC. 9 - Sunday Serv- ice, Preacher, The Rev. Robert B. Fulton, Chaplain, Union College, MC, noon; Christian Assn. Confer- ence with Vassar College, Silliman Hall. MONDAY, DEC. 10 - Daily As- sembly, Student Forum, MC, noon; All pre-medical students, Biology 205 at 4 :30 p.m.; Placement panel, \Sales as a Career\ OC, 7:30 .p.m.; Delphics (tutoring) BH 101, 7:30 p.m.; Board of Managers, Hale House Student Lounge, 7 p.m.; In- stitute of Radio Engineers, EE 22 at 8 p.m.; Concert by Nott •.rerrace High School Choir, MC, 8 p.m.; Student tickets at door. TUESDAY, DEC. 11 - Daily As- sembly, Speaker, Prof. Wm. Bristol, Latin America II (second in series Special Fares The New York Central Railroad makes the following offer to ·stu- dents: Round-trip coach party fares have again been authorized for groups of twenty-five (25) or more students em·oute from school or college to the same destination for the 1951-52 Christmas-New Years vacation period, Students would be required to travel together on the going trip (the date on which the school closes) returning together or in- dividually as desire<!, within the time limit of each recess, but not later than reopening date of the school after the recess. Between New York and Washington, D. C. groups would be required to travel together both going and returning. THURSDAY, DEC. 13 - Dally As- sembly, Speaker, Chaplain Taylor of the First Air Force, MC, noon; Selective Service Draft Qualifica- tion Test, CE 106; Alliance Fran- coise, OC, 8 p.m.; American Assn. of University Professors, Faculty Lounge, 8 p.m.; American Society of Civil Engineers, (Mohawk- Hudson Section), General Engr. Library, 8 p.m.; the ANNUAL CHRISTMAS DINNER for the College Community, West College, 6 p.m.; Reservations required. Freshmen may turn in ticket for reservation, other students $1.00, Faculty and Staff, $1.50; Inter- views for seniors in Electrical Engineering and Physics, Wells House, a.m.,. Norden Instruments, Inc. Placement Norden Instruments Inc. of Mil· ford, Conn. are itnerviewing for .June Seniors for their training course; the object is \to develop systems engineers on our rather advanced type of airborne equi:p- ment.\ Mr. Rinehart will be at Wells House Thursday, Dec. 13, in the morning only. Please make ap- pointments in advance. The second of the Placement Panels will be held at 7:40 p.m., in Old Chapel, Monday, Dec. 10, The subject is \Sales\ in its promo- tional, supervisory, and ·- other phases. All students welcome. Placement Bulletin No, 33 is out. It includes a few fellowship and post-graduate notes, which we have received recently. It con- tains, we believe, one or more items of Interest to each Senior, no mat- ter what his plans may be. If you have not received your copy, please let the Council office know. It would be necessary to have some one person designated to col- lect the fare from each individual participating in this arrangement, after which a party ticket would be purchased at our ticket office f<tr the going trip and individual tickets issued for the return trip. To obtain this reduced coach rate, it will be necessary for us to lmow at least seven days in ad- vance of date of departure that this arrangement is desired in order that proper tariff may be filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and the several -State Commissions so as to comply with their rules. Employment in the :Bell System is open to men in all courses. In- terviews will be held here in Feb- ruary; and applications for inter- views are now obtainable at the Placement Bureau. You will be even busier in .January; come and get it now. By taking advantage of group rates, it is pos$ible to save approxi- mately 25% and reduced round-trio rates will be furnished you immedi- ately upon receipt of your request. ---o•--- Thanl\ You Willard Taylor, President of the Interfraternity Council announced today that the clothing drive being conducted by the city was aided by groups of fraternity men who loaded the clothing into a boxcar. Men from the following fraternities were present; Psi Upsilon Delta Upsilon, Delta Phi, Phi De!t~ Theta and Sigma Chi. Intuitive knowledge is one of Nature's most princely gifts. LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCkTAILS FRIDAY~ DECEMBE!t 7. 1951 THE VERY IDEA By Jay N. Cohn Putting one little word after an- other, ala Joe Williams, and what- ever became of deferred T h e obnox,ious youngster persisted in ing pennies last Monda chapel m.igh, have fou~d a so· cially acceptable way of gettinf his two cents in· to the discussion The sudden g·rowth of the I:P.· d·ependent Council ·rnusr set some sort of record' for quick action on campus. Wonder what ki:\d of fertilizer they used-and W!tere can I get some? I planned on going to the open house of the Character Research Foundation Tuesd:J,Y, but when I opened the -door .to 'Old Gym a guy wandered through with his chin out and a starry gave in his eyes. Frankly I was worr.ied fo1· my safety so I changed my. mind. The presence of only some 30 sophomores on the first dean's list gives that class a rather dubious distinction. And the fact that there are probably more freshmen on the Dean's \under the blotter!' list· than on his publicized do~;m­ ment kinda makes one wonder why the Delphics tutoring .program has had· such poor attendance. In his annual report, \The State of Union,\ which was released this week, President Davidson says he hopes that the ,erection of the Field House-Drill Hall can begin in the spring of 1952 and be ready for occ\Upancy that fall. This is quite encouraging, but the report is ob- viously outdated, In one section, Prexy writes, \Student activities lost none of their colorful excite- ment, including ..• three excellent dl:'amatic productions by the Mountebanks . . ;\ How times change. · Dinner data: The feast following .the Tippecanoe conference a few weeks ago showed that, contrary to public opinion, Bill South is smart enough to know when the serving of a .good meal can do ,the most good. The high character of this year's foreign studer . .ts, enter·· ta:ined by the Delphics at a recent dinner, certainly helps a great deal in strengthening world \brother. hood.\ The HELP Plan is the best innovation since the airplane. The Block \U\-Alumnl dinr.er Mon- day night was a resounding. success in all respects. Let's have ruore of 'em. But Fred Bronner violated all rules of t<Jastmasters by not cracking a joke at the beginning of his remarks. Evidently Pete Nis- tad .has already taken his .advice and dropped a basketball game to dispel any fear of \subsidization.\ Perhaps somebody better remlr:d Ray Mullane, though. I was bothered a few weeks 'ago by the de!ibera:te, vicious attack on Drake's Johnny Bright in a football game, and even more ir- ritated by the Missouri Valley Con- ference's refusal to take any ac- tion against the perpetrato1·. But nothing irked me as' much as a little item in the papers this week which annou1iced that tickets for the Sugar Bowl game would, as usual, be marked for members of the \Caucasian Race\ only. And we wonder why we are having trouble battling against commun- ism ... College presidents will un- doubtedly be a little more careful with their speeches for the next few months after the experience of Cornell's Deane Malott. The New Yorker caught him red- handed presenting \stolen\ ma- terial at his inaugural' address- a Hell of a way to get started on a new job. Chances are there won't be a single Cornell student dismissed for plagarism this year. In response to numerous quirles, \No I cannot get anyone a job at City Hall!\ Mid-year ·exams are already a major topic of discussion, and It'll be nice to start fresh again next term now that the year sys- tem is gone. Gosh, only 107 more days of school before spring finals. Dormitory Notice Students desiring domitoryrooms for the February-.Tune, 1952 term are requested to make reserv!ttions with Miss Fleming in the Business Office by DECEMBER 19, 1951. Present dormitory residents have been sent reservation forms. Any other students can obtain the form at the Business Office. Students will be notified of their assignment after Christmas vacation. FRESH- MEN DO NOT NEED TO R~ APPLY FOR THEIR PRESENT ROOMS AS THEIR ORIG'INAL RESERVATION C-ARD COVERS THE YEAR, SEPTEMBER-JUNE, 1952. Your attention is again called to the collelge IJolicy on housing stu- dents. All stu.dents :are required to Hve in the college dormitories with the following exceptions: r -~las:~s-;~:t. -~~~~l Accurate Prompt Service To Your Optical Needs James DiNapoli Dispe.nsing Optician PHONE 4-7906 I 98 Ja.y St. Soheneotady, N. Y. f (Opposite City Hall l • ~--··· -------------J LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Specializing In ltalian-Americ:an Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schen. 6-9744 Enlov our Sizzling Steaks and Chops We Need Your Head To Run Our Busfnessn Model Barber Shop Herman F4rone, Prop. 435 Liberty Street Acrou trom Gallo's a. Students living at home or In fraternity houses. b. Married students. c. Students excused by Miss Travis who are working for their rooms. d. Students excused by the Busi- ness Office. Penalty for vlo1atlon of above college rule will be in the a!lllount of one semester's double l'O(Jm oont $100.00. ' For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here William H. Plath Auto Service 60 I UNION STREET • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repair\d • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Ct. FRIDAY, Mu Sw Coach mermen dual me showihg feated I Enginee: En RPI, w 26 meets found the of a 48-27 men -last Coach G seriously sprint ev though t done an~ yet, repor be little freshman ates . Co-capt Bill SkifJ the home Schmidt. ing brea Geismar: tone is sprinter~ backstroll Gus Gon tance fre \The 1 eight of Rocheste: last wee: ninth co team sho and grea records E set. R: In the relay, tlle their don: Hartman an early· extended home wi lead. Th came in event, w \Flying : line in 2 hind we Pitts, of Reiners' old recor year. Bob D< 50 yard • ond and the visit< ley, Did!! for the effort. l broke in taking s team. A Rocheste third piE H:utJ Phil M place ir. Riverme Hancher tlle 100 f \Flying tory. D close thi in his j Jal1 at 1 Bootl a t

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1951 3 Mullane Optimistic, Swimmers Meet RPI Action a.t Middleb11ry Garnet Five Host to Powerful Williams Team By Irwin Barg Coach Ray Mullane's Flying Dutchmen will take on the mermen of RPI tomorrow afternoon, at Troy, in their second dual meet of the current .season. After the impressive showing by his swimmers last week when they eas1ly de- feated Rochester, Mullane expects little trouble from the Engineers, in their season opener. Engineers Weakened o$>1--------~--~---~ RPI, which has won 20 of the· second record of the afterr oon in 26 meets between the two colleges, the 200 yard backstvoke event. ;He found themselves on the short end. lowered Reiners' old record t<\ of .a 48-27 score against the ;Dutch- 2:28.6. Howie Kloth picked up the men last year. Since that time, second place points. Coach Graham's te21.m has been Jewett defeated Geismar by seriously weakened, in the dive and about two yards in the breaststroke sprint events, by graduation. AI- event and Don Horton, who has . though the Engir.eers have not· since left school, trailed Gerry. Guy, done any competitive swimming \Space Cadet'' Cooper took a sur- yet, reports indicate that there will prising 440 victory as Pitts faded be little added strength from the early In the race and then waited freshman and sophomore candid- for teammate Mehr to finish ahead ates. • of him. Reiners, Dorse, Stark, ar.d . Co-captains Pete Gattone and Duffy made up the closing 400 yard · i3m Skiff will be the thr-eats for relay team which was finally able the home team, alohg with George to set a new pool record of 3:50.2; Schmidt. Skiff is their outstand- after severq.l •bad starts due to a ing breaststroker, 'having beaten faulty starting gun. Anchor-man Geismar in last season's meet. Gat- Duffy touc'hed the finish mark 25 · tone is \Pop\ Graham's hottest yards ahead· of his opponent. sprinter and Schmidt will swim the backstroke events. Pat Curtiss and Gus Gonzalez are the likely dis- tance freestylers. ---0--- Result of Second Intramural Round By Lou Klein The Garnet basketball squad will face a strong Williams College five in the home opener for the Dutchmen tomor- row night at 8:30 p.m. in Alumni Gynmasium. L~st Tues- day, a green Union team was downed by the_l\Itddlebury Panthers 59-44 in a hard fought contest played a:way at ·Middlebury, Vermont. 36th Meeting Tomorrow will mark the 36th and Schwartzmann were playing · meeting between Williams and under the handicap of four per- Union, with the Dutchmen holding sonals for most of the second half. a 22-13 edge in the series. The The Panthers outscored the Nistad-coached hoopsters are taller Dutchmen by but one field goal, and faster than last . year's squad, while hitting for 19 of 24 attempts . but 'lack the experience and team .from the foul line. The Garnet play which is necessary for a could do little better than six for winning combination. 21 foul shots. Big gun in the Mid~ ' There are no changes in the dlebury attack was freshman AI I starting line-up however, and the Dennis, who dumped in 16 points first game!s lineup of Glenn Kinns, to lead the scoring for the evening. last year's scoring leader; Joe Pete Scott, Panther forward, was Sutko, surprising freshman from second man with 12 points. Poughkeepsie; Marv Zeph, a big , cog fro mthe 1951 undefeated fresh- man team; Bob Murray, 6'1\ re- ·bound artist; and Gene Schwartz- mann, an adept ball-handler, will retain their Garnet Play Spotty The Garnet courtment played good ball in spurts last Tuesday . but were beaten by a tall, steady Middlebury five. Trailing 26-19 at half-time, Union shaved that margin down to three . points at the start of the fourth period. From then on however, it was all Middlebury as the Panthers Zeph Leads Scoring The Union offense was lead by rookie, Marv Zeph, who, starting his first game, hooped 12 counters .before fouling out. Bob Murray did yeoman duty under the ;boards, and Gene Schwartzmann played a great defensive game whi'le shining as a playmaker on offense. Glenn Kinns was injured in the .first minute of play and was unable to return to action again for the rest of the evening. However, he will be ready to go for the Williams encounter. \The Flying Dutchmen\ swept eight of ten first places against Rochester, in the season opener last week. In churning to their ninth consecutive win, Mullane's team showed very gpod balance and great depth, as three college records and one pool record were In the second week of intramural basketball the competition seemed to be keener because some were avenging previous losses and others were endeavoring to keep their records clean. Photo by Forman Sltown above is flashy fuard Gene Scb.wa.I'ti2l!an breaking in for a Union Score. Following-up the shot is llu!ky George Bat- hlewicz. Also pictured are two unidentified Mid!llebury defenders. ' racked up 11 straight counters to ice the game. A big factor in the rapid aGrnet demise was the loss of Marv Zeph late in the third · stanza. In addition, both Murray GREETING CARDS. for All Occasions set. In a hard fought game the Alpha· Reiners Sets Record• Delts used their great height ad- I'ntramu·ral· V'Ban. vantage to down an ROTC quint In the opening 300 yard medley 20-14. Delta Phi, in a game that relay, the Union mermen continued featured some rough,play, defeated their dominance of that event. Dick ·Beta Eta Upsilon to a lop-sided Hartmann got the Dutchmen off to tune of 30-12. In another routine an early lead, which Gerry Geismar game T·heta Delta Chi defeated the extended and Art Fink breezed ASCE's 26 _ 1 2. home with better than half a lap lead. The first of the new records Other games of the week saw Monday, Dec. 10 7:00 p.m.-Beta~-KN 7:.45 p.m.-Kappa Sig-BEU 8:30 p,ID,~Phi Sig Kap-PSD 9:15 p.m.-Phi Delt-KA Wednesday, Dec. 12- 7:00 p.m.-Theta Delt-Psi U 7:45 p,ID.-D Chi-Sig Chi 8:30 p,m.-Betas-Sig Phi 9 :15-Kappa Sig-Chi Psi Kappa Nu losing to Kappa Sigma came in the 220 yard freestyle by a 21-7 count. Phi Delta Theta event, with Werner Reiners, the displayed their expected superiority \Flying Fish,\ crossing the finish in trouncing a gaJ\.qe Beta club by line in 2:23.4. Following close be- a score of 37-14. The Beta zone hind were John Duffy and J-im couldn't stoy the outside shots of Pitts, of Rochester, in that order. the Phi's. In the thriller of the Reiners' time surpassed Duffy's week Kappa Alpha defeated Phi old record of 2:24.2 set at RPI last Sigma ;Delta 36-34. i • • • • • • • • • •- • • 'i year. In the volleyball league only ·I S ' U • 1 M 1 Bob Dorse took first place in the four games were held and all I ervmg . mon s en 50 yard dash with Dick Stark sec- games were won in straight I For years .•1 and and Turner in third place for matches except a thriller between the visitors. In the 150 yard med- Phi Sigma Delta and Sigma Chi. II See your anent on Camp· us I ley, Dick Hartmann set the record The former won out in the last ~ 1 for the new event with a 1:50.7 game coming from way behind. II UNITED 1 effort. Freshman Chris Muhlert Other games had Alpha Delta Phi broke into the scoring. column by beating Sigma Phi in two straight I taking second place for the home games. 1 1 CLEANERS 1 team. After the first four events, Also, Delta Phi beat Chi Psi 2-0, I TAILORS I Rochester had to settle for three and the DU's downed the Phi Gams third place points. in straight sets also. Next weeks 1 Phone 4-5676 1 1 H:utmrum Lowers 2 Marks ·games: Betas-KN, Kap Sig-BEU, Phil Metzger added another first Phi Sig Kap-Phi Sig Delt, Phi Delt- I 114 State St. near Ferry 1 place in the dive. Spitz -of the KA. !, • • _ • • • • • • • • • •• Rivermen was second and Roger ---------------==:..=:..=:..=.=.=.=...:::::;;.==.==...::.::_:__:_..c Hancher th'ird. A tight finish in >lll • • • •-- • •- • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •., the 100 saw Jim· Pitts edge out the I . I \Flying Fish\ for a 56 second vic- I D 1 S T I N C T J V E , M E N 1 S W E A R I tory. Dorse trailed home with a I I close third. Sophomore Hartmann, 1 1 in his .first varsity meet, set his : ·Capital Men!s Sho.p~ Inc. : James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can aHord. Booth and Fountain Service a 426 State Street . storeful of Fine Gift's to send home I .., I I 167 Jay Sireet Sc:henectady, N. Y. I I I ,_---- -··11111!1-------------------- ~ AT M. B. Graubarts & Sons ~:'.\~ The Ultimate in Diamond y,Jue ~..J - That you highest grade in our find only diamonds collect:ion does not mean they cos~ more ~~ .. ~a\\'b ()\\\\~~~ 9)lWftl~ ''SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR. 3 GENERATIONS\ .. Engraving in This Issue Made By SCH:ENJ.\GTADY, N.Y. 147 JAY S1REE1' FERRO'S. RES;r AU RANT tvir. and Mrs. George Ferro, Proprietors I I IS Barrett St. PRIVATE ROOM FOR PARTIES Specializing in ltollan-Ameriean Food PHONE 6-9 554 ,GAZETTE PRESS Printers A·CE Stationery Store Get Your Imprinted Christmas Cards Early!! \'Finest .Selection Anywhere\ 24-Hour Photo Service 177 Jay Street Near State St. plus Fred MacMurray Eleanor Parker A Millionaire for Christy A Place in the Elizabeth Taylor Montgomery Clift plus Hurricane Islamd Cave of Outlaws In Technicolor and On The Loose • • . There the hermit ' slaked my burning thirst Tennyson: Hol!J flrall Could be he found Coke at the hermitage. For Coca.-Cola is everywhere ••• and everywhere it has the same delicious and refreshing quality. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY' OF THE COCA·COLA COMPANY BY SCH~NECTADY' COOA-<JOLA BOTTLING OOMP~ \Cofctl'ls a registered ti'acl .. mark; @ I 951, THB COCA·COLA COMP»lY

4 FRIDAY, ·DECEMBER 7, 1951 Union .Differs Vastly From Paris' Sorbonne Barstow Leaves :$2,600 to College Prexy's Inaugural Spe~ech GOPhytes J;luzzles Cornell Students Reorganiz·es By the will of the late Charles L. Cornell University has just witnessed one of the most The Union College Young Repub- :Barstow of · shelbt~r.ne, vermont,, By Martin Portnoy interesting- cases of \plagiarism\ ever to take place on any lican Club wh!ch has reorganized Union College will receive a bequest Much impressed with MGM's recent \An American in Paris,\ I met Union's Parisian in America, Francois Lamar, full of questions. Francois, friendly, interested, and inform- ative, is spending· this year in America commuting between the Phi Sigma Delta house on Seward Place and Bailey Hall. cam.puS'. in preparatio~ for the 1952 election campaign, has made numerous· og $2;000, it was announced today \New Yorker•\ Reprints plans for this school year. Accord- by Harold Van de Car, Director· of Th': incident all revolves about! ·the day following the rept•int from ing to Robert Coyle, club president, Financial Development of the Col- the 1nstallat!on speech made by \New Yorker.\ Very ·little atten- a series of worthw):lile speakers has Cornell presJdent, De~ne W. Ma- tion has been attracted from been outlined. . lege, lot~ .. Under tbe headmg .. \~~.mny :alumni on the entire question af William Bianchi has been elected ·Union Graduate Comc!dence· ~epartmen~. New alleged \plagarlsm.\ A Jetter In head of a com.mittee to procure Mr. Barstow was graduated from Yorker Magazme\ reprmted the the '\Sun'' from two students· at- Oswald Beck, ·speaker of .the New Union in 1889·and received an bon- speech next to a s~eech made by· tacked the newspaper for Its un~ 'Yorlt State assembly, ahd Mayor•· crary Master of Arts degree fro~· Harold Taylor, president of Sarah fair treatment of President l\ialott ,elect Archibald Wemple for evening· the Cllllege in 1924. He se:rved for Lawrence College, without making! saying they had printed very Iittl~ lectures. Dwight Hopkins, vice- many years as Art Editor of any comment .. It was apparent of his story. The newspaper president of ·iJle campus Young Re- Harper's Magazine and' waf! .as- from the portions reprinted that, claimed that they had .been unsuc- publicans, has announced a plan for sociated with the .publishing con- t~e, two speeches were greatly cessful several .times in obtaining joint intercollegiate meetings with cerns ·of F.J:arper and Bros. and ·Cen- Attending Sorbonne Now a second year student at the Sorbonne, Francois found Union vastly different from any- thing he had previously known. The Sorbonne, with some 50,000 students, is situated in the heart of Paris, has no campus, (actually the French language has no coun- terpart for the word \campus\), no organized student social ac- tivity, no student-teacher contact, and is an integral part of the city rather than a separate entity. The majority of the students come from the environs of Paris, Francois himself comes from the suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seir.e, while the others (mainly from the Prov- ence) live all over the city, as the university has no dormitories. The student is under no compulsion to attend classes and to finance his education he may seek employment that conflicts with his class hours. Notes are either copied from those who did attend or the professor may print the notes of the course in booklet form. Examinations are offered only at the end of the year. Francois' particular field of study, English, necessitates four years of undergraduate study and three more years to obtain a de- gree similar to the American Ph,D. He is then eligible to take the state competitive examination for a teaching position. Uni~·ersity Politically Conscious After comparing the .physical set- up of the typical European liberal arts college and its American counterpart, we spoke of the stu- dents. The French student comes to the university after attendance at a lycee, where he takes courses that extend as far as freshmen col- lege level. He is serious minded and usually actively interested in the affairs, both foreign and do- mestic of his country. The two most active political groups at the Sorbonne, according to Francois, are the Catholic group and the Communists, although there are all levels of political thought. The groups hold meet- Ings, distribute pamphlets, and often organize in protest groups to march to city hall. The student body has on occasion marched as a united group demanding from the government better conditions at the university. Francois was much impressed by New York City during his visit at Thanksgiving. He described Broad- way at night as \dazzling.\ In France, advertising is regulated by the government, and the Parisians are deprived of these neon spec- taculars. He intends to spend more time in New York City during Christmas and he wants to see a11 the sights. But, unfortunately, as· the typical New Yorker has never seen the Statue of Liberty and the Chicagoan has never seen the stockyards, Francois has never seen the Folies Bergere. Friendlier Tha.n English I then asked Francois how his impression of Americans had changed since his arrival. The Am· We Have Them if its Slacks or Pants 1,000 Pairs . to Pick From ROCHESTER PANTS STORE (New Location) 115 BROADWAY . Between State and Smith Sts. L. 0. BALFOUR 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES - RINGS - FAVOB8 JEWELRY LEATHER GilTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS- TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN 80 Mtll'l'ay Ave. WaterfGrd, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-2328 ericans, he asserted, are known only to the French through Am· erican movies. The distortion has created a myriad of misconcep- tions and Francois felt that the Europeans could not help like Atn- ericans if they could get to know them personally. He is impressed by American friendliness and feels we far surpass the English in this respect. Similar, . a story from the President. .such collegese as Vassar, Benning- tury Co. As an author, Mr; Barstow Mr. MalGtt sa1d that the quota- 0 · ton, Colgate, and Hamilton. was well known for his books on tioh of Dr. Taylor's came to his. b c· :Participa.ted -in Campaign various phases )'pi' art, .including attention in the form of \some edu- Basket. all ontest At theae meetings, the problems \Famous Pictures\ \Fam.ous Build- cational handout or filler .para- H;arvey Krontck has announced of the clubs will be brought out in ings\ \A Primer of ·Architecture1', graph In a weekly newspaper that the Basketball Score Guessing 'social hours that will follow debates and \Famous Sculpture.\ which was printed with no refer- ·c t t h' h · d 1 on platforms and candidates. This tn. addition ot his bequest to Thn French government todav, ones ·s, w rc prove so popu ar t $. 00 ' • ence to source or authority.\ Mr. 1 t '! lb h ld i thi year, the club took an active part Union, Mr. Bars 'OW left 1; {) to says Fran cor's, is composed of a · · as year, WI e · e aga n · s V $l O{)Q Malott added that he had never Th f' ·t t t 'II b h ld .·in the Republican party's city cam- the University of ermont, , coalition of the moderate groups. ,yea.r. · e Irs COil es wr e' e 1 h Ch t f s· Ph' seen Dr-. Taylor's address and so f th u 1 W'll\ · · ,,paign, distributing campaign ma- to the A p a ap er o ' 1gma · .I T hese groups cunlb!'ned .succ·'ss· ' or ' e · · non- I 1a-ma game on $ 4 000 h V ' he had no ·wa.y of crediting the· D 8 'th d' · ·t t terial to pre-election crowds in at Vermont, and , to t e er- fully in an efilort to weaken Com- ; ec. WI . succee mg con es a· . D' f th E . 1 munl 'st control. The Communi'sts quotation to him. being held for each home game. ·downtown Schenectady. mont . JOecese o '< prscopa I i \ ' · Officers· of the cl~b are: Robert Church. today number less than one-third D~nied \.P a~r sm \ . Union students may enter the con- Coyle, president; Dwight Hopkins, At Union Mr. Barstow was a of the French electorate. The A specral story m the Dmly. tests at .the ·Coll,ege Book Store. 1 id t G ld Rich d member of Sigma Phi fraternity On! ,. gr·oup not united ... 1 'th the Kan.san,\ publication of the. Uni-' First and second .place winners.re· ,vee-pres en; era: ar s; . coalition is DeGaulle's party, which versJty of Kansas, from w ere r .. c~lve a carton Of Chesterfield 'treasurer. the class yearbook, ''The Garnet,\ J \ I h M · secretary; and Bruce McKeige, and in his senior year editor ·of protests the ex cessive sponsorship M.alott came, .quoted ~n intervl.ew mga1'ettes for each contest. of France by America, fearing the. W!tJ;l the Cor-nell pr~~ldent,. wh;,ch · · ·r '.:?.~~~~~~~~~~~ eventual transformation of Franc<> I demed .any for~ of, plagansm .. ·- . GOOD SHOES FOR .·! CHR.I;ST-M.A·. _S ··GIFTS ~ into a United States satellite. The Cornell Sun ran an edl-. s~UDENTS d' FACULTY . . . toriaJ declaring- the iSSUe \ClOSed\ ' II Uft i SAVE 15'% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% 20°/ 0 DISCOUNT ~ NOTT RE .STAURA.NT A.iN'D ·BA·R : ~ On Watches. and All Types of Jewelry ~ ,. · · ~ Any Des1red Make and Model: ~ For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-&~9766 ~ Bulova, Benrus, Longine, Gruen, Elgin, Etc. ~ Raw, Steamed Clams ~ ~- \Meet and Eat at EDDI!E'S\ Patton & Hall ~ Call: JOEL MANN ~~~: X RA FITTING KAPPA NU HOUS~ 547 Not+ St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. \ · Y · · 6-9 959 111 MEAL TICKETS-$5.75 for·$5.00 245 state st.-Since 1895 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~~ MILDNESS 1!!!- NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE* *From ·tne Report of a Well-Known ,Researc:h Organization •• • AND ONLY CHESTER,FIELD HAS ITI - Copyright 19ll, LtBOilT & MYlRS ToBACCO CD.. Vol. 79 IF c.(J The changE at its J absenc1 able t< fall pr mem'bE cussed John IFC sp< mitted commer commit1 proms. the Cou coop era pendent tendanc practic~ ing tha' nearby three ri a namE all soc houses during encours dent T buy as which' ous daJ reduce ations. In o1 cost of gested local o and, a\ down i prom c conside the Fa to ena·l ball te1 rn,enda1 sidered commi' the St refer en Mose letter t Taylor been c be pr< houses not att The will al pender the IF betwee This 1 privile the IF depen< it is fe ation new n Alll ties fo to clE Cassid Office The were ' Phi, C Sigma Phi Te1 The De bat tories elude< semes The Point fopic, Gove1 Perm Price team verm: negat Scull TUE for en feate Amh' that Unio: nega· Willi the 1 and' Th seme oil· Fres: requ:

Rathskeller Clcs~s For Vacation Tuesday, ll P;M. Vol. 79, No. 11 IFC. Considers Prom c.om.mittee' s Proposals.· The Interfraternity Council was unable to consider changes in rushing rules or portions of the new c<mstitution · at its meeting Tuesday night because of a large number of absences. With a bare quorum present, 'the Coundl was able to conduct a meeting aJ which recommendations of the fall prom committee were read, and the representatioR of a • member of the Independent Council on the IF1C was dis-·, cussed. Prom Proposals ~------------- Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1951 Featured at Jam Session Merry Xmas Happy New Year To Our Readers PRICE 10 CENTS Special Meeting Sets Council Hop The Student Council took final action on the February Winter Weekend at a special meeting in Old Chapel Wed~ nesday night. A tentative schedule for the weekend was suggested and committee members were appointed by Jay Cohn, Weekend Chairman. The affair will, he announced, will be held on Feb. 23 and will be different from anything previously seen on the Union campus. Informal Costume Hop The Hop will be an informal cos- . U.ime affair with fraternities vieing for a cup to be awarded for the most Qrifir.al booth. Each bo0th is to have a theme and members of each fraternity will come at- tired in keeping with their parti- cular theme. The Independent Council will also have a display, the size of which will depend on the number of participants. Committees and chairrr.en ap- pointed for the Hop, by general chairman Jay Cohn are: Arrangements-Richard Nemeth, Oscar Grusky, and Pat Lakshmin- arsu; Band-John Moses; Refresh- ments--Jerome Gartner, and An- thony Tartaglia; Awards-Joe Bo- net; Entertainment - James Hoff- man; Publicity-Thomas Odell. Military BaU Undecided Colonel Edward Soulliere's stand on the proposed military ball is strictly non-committal. The Colonel said that he is unwilling to take any initiative in the matter, but he would gladly sanction the ball if the students indicated a desire t0 have one.- A resolution was passed to re~ commend to the Student Acatvities Office the purchase of a stockpile of basic decorations for use at the various college affairs. This would alleviate a great portion of the de- coration cost of all such activities. Council President David Walrath reported on his conference with Dr. Davidson on the compulsory gym for AFROTC students. He reported that the college's contract with the reserve unit states that all cadets are required to take two hours of ~rill weekly and the gym period is, m effect, the required drill period. ---0•--- Bristol Tells Of Argentina

2 arnutnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate D:ge>t. National Adver- tising Repre,entative: Na- Liona:l Adver.tising SerYice. I.rw , CoPege Pub:lsher~ RepresentatiPe, 420 ll1ndl- ~ull Ave .. :\ Y l' Pub- lisl·ed e'ery Friday of the ....,, hool y('nl\ Editorial Oftlce,Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- l!ea tlon Offke, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Enter.-d in the Schenec- tady Post Office a.s Sec- <llld Class :\I ail Matter, sub -eriptlon 1 Oc a copy: $3 year delivered an-y· where in the United Stntes. \F\WU llOARil • • \1.1 • 1·: ,;nnv .\ n ·z '5~ ....................... Editor-in Chief ILl n • ; T \ \'1.1 •n ·:,~ , ................... Associate Editor IOHX J. <'.\,;,;Jpy JR '53 .......................... Managing Editor IH.\·1:-;- S. B\HI: ·;,3 ........................ S;wrts Editor Jot·' HuE :--:11.\ J-:1!:\'IA>: '52 ...................•..••.• Feature Editor ~i.\HTI:\ B. ll<li\PO:--: '54_... .. ........................ Copy E<litor ALFHI~Il L !iUUlllEH.;~:H '5l .......................... Copy Editor -• .u •• ~ ti .-·\ ,Jtsl.\-·'- ,...> .•.•••••••••••••••••••••••• Photography Editor <iEOHGE J \\'.:l.BEL '53 .................. Acting· Business ~ianagei· 111 _,, tJ:, .. :. .. . ........... Circulation :\1anaoer .11 \10 i 0.\ltD . . . . . , ... Assistant Cop, Editor .. , .• ILL. II .L'S,~ ... 0~5 .. ................. Assistant Co;•Y 8ditor . . . . . A~ h:;taut l•eature Edilot . . . ....... '·' t::; 1:, L IIII.LEJ: 5:1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ExchaJ.ge ·I£ditor I) .. HJI HtJ•[IY .. 2 . . . . , .... , ...... , . . . . . . . . Exl'uange I::dlt01 RuBE!tT siL \'EIDL\::-: ti ..... HAL'E , .. \ .. , \U,'-ti ... '53 .............. , .A\sbtant Bu~ine.- s }.lanager o~ 0 0 ••• 0 •••••• A;:S,:,j;:;taut Circulation Manat,er HEI'ORTERS Petet' Adler, 11ar\'itl Boris, !ler!Jert Guston. Hichard Heimann, Gary Katz LPwis Kteln. Eliot I..osltal>, Jlartin Portnoy, Arthur Ro,enfeld, Stel\.;;rt Robinson, Walter Srtlm, Alfred <icott, Donald Siu.mons, Da\'id Smith, ,\rthur S.odmmn, Herbert Williams, Paul Gilbert. Bt:SINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Bec!t, Lawrence Greenberg. CIRCULA'£ION S1'AFF Curtis Bates, J. Lowell Davis, Joe Martin, David Brown, James Fitz- maurice, Riehard Borst, Robert Seydel. Opportunity for Expression Union's curriculum is presently being studied by two faculty groups; one a committee to study the first two years and the other to plan an integration program. The former committee is headed by Professor Frederick A. Klemm and the latter is under the chairmanship of Pro- fessor William W. Bennett. The curriculum is the aspect of the college that affects the students most. If they have any pet gripes, they should be aimed mainly in this direction. The two committees are most anxious. for students to voice their opmwns on these topics. Freshmen, best equipped to discuss the first year's courses from the stu- dents vantage point, should have plenty to say on the matter. Seniors, required to take one so-called integration course, should be likewise well versed on that subject. But the entire question affects all students. This is the prime advantage of students to air their grievances. Boost For Integration Program Last year, the College received $75,000 from the Carne- gie Corporation to set up an inter-divisional integration program in the next five years. Many interesting courses are currently being studied. Included among these pro- posed courses are a course in communications, a course in city planning, a course in regional study, a course in evolu- tion, and a course in criticism. All these topics would be viewed from many different angles, thus handling integra- tion in the method of approaching one topic by numerous means. Courses such as SS55 and Science 50 are recently developed from the integration idea. Liberal arts freshmen have long complained about the math requirement. Prof. Klemm's committee is consider'- ing alternatives to freshmen math, along with possible alternatives to freshmen history. The fact remains that the work of the two committees would be greatly simplified if they had a sample of student opinion. This should not be merely another outlet for gripes, but one for carefully thought out suggestions for the problem of improving the curriculum. Student opinion, when responsibly voiced, has traditionally been effective in working changes in the American educational scheme. This is a great opportunity for the Union student body. The Concordiensis will be glad to handle and forward such opinion. The students, if they wish, may directly take their opinions to the committees. But the important thing is for students to express themselves on this ·question, one of the most important under consideration by the College today. D. E S. Say It Ain't So, Prof The question of academic freedom never dies. Its opponents never forget their fear of it. When \God and Man at Yale\ was published, it reached the best-seller list. A speech was made recently which we consider the most vitriolic, patently dangerous remarks about American education. We reprint a few quotations from a speech made by columnist-author Upton Close before a convention of Ohio Kiwanians. \Professors are men who can't compete in the busi- ness world and protect their weakness in academic free- dom. Academic freedom to them means freedom to sponge off the public and freedom to think crooked.\ Referring to Ohio State and its speakers' '!gag rule\: \I would not trust the faculty as a whole. They have mischievous instincts and like to do sensational things. There should be a board of deans or selected older men of approved American instincts to make decisions as to who should speak. The average American is too confused to judge fOl' himself. u ••• If you want to destroy our society completely, just invite. anyone to talk to our children in schools and colleges. Maybe we should bring in murderers and rapists and someone to preach free love and a free world. 1 ' We feel there is no need for comment. D. E S. Letters to the Editor Says Shouldn't Pay Any Activity Leaders Dear Sir: Inasmuch as the Concordiensis, being an independent newspaper, 1s entitled to its OV\ n editorial policy re~ ardipg remuneration for the ex- ecutives of major activities,. we feel that the opposing views that exist should be expressed. In the first place, activties on this campus are farmed by groups which have particular interests and purposes in mind. The activities are perpetuated by those with sin:.ilar intersts and aims, ar.d the activities should live oply as long as the inherent interest is main~ tained. If the major positions in these activities were subsidized,. the implication would be that such ac- tivities were campus necessities, a totally false inference. Activities which depend upon artificial stimu- lation in the forrrL of material re- tm·n to its leaders should cease to function ,since the intrinsic inter- est is no longer present. Further- more, if remuneration were re- garde,Jl. as a stimulus for additional · student participation in a falling activity, the basic ir.terest. in the activity would no longer be recog- nized as the· mot'ivati6n for that activity. There is also another point to consider; that is the desire to pro- vide auxiliary services to the rest of the college community. Nearly all the major groups not only ,pro- vide outlets for the interests of in- dividuals, as well as excellent ex- perience in the particular fields, but also serve as media of enter- tainment or ir.formation to the bal- ance of the campus residents and even to the community of Sche- nectady. For example, the Rathskeller ex- ists today because a nucleus of stu- dents saw an opportunity .to per- form a service which was not al- ready provided. These students, and those that have followed, have given the campus an invaluable contribution. Their efforts are given in the interest of the entire college community, while also yield- ing the individual valuable returns in the form of business experience, leadership, group participation and many other intangibles. In this respect the student is comparable to the adult citizen who gives free- ly of his time and service to com- munity endeavors such as the Red Cross, the Community Chest and Civilian Defense. In summary, we feel that the pro- vision of monetary return to ac- tivity executives would not be in harmony with the primary motiva- tions which erected the organiza- tion, namely, inherent interest and gratuitous service. Yours truly, CALVIN SCHMIDT DAVID PLATT Criticizes Students For Display in Chapel Dear ;Don: It seems quite different being on the other side of the fence, and now being able to write a letter to the editor, but, your editorial last week is one which in my estimation desreves an answer. You seemed to have reached right to the core of the problem when you stated that the showing in chapel, last Monday (December 3), was revolting almost beyond words. r happened to have had the mistfortune to be sitting di- rectly behind a few so-called young \men\ who were continually gab- bing or heckling the speakers. This led me to realize that it was about men like these that the \Time\ article was written. Such individuals impress me about as much as most people you see on the streets of New York City. They are always rushing about, but unfortunately, they seem to be getting nowhere. These stu- dents are, according to the Admis- sions Department, supposed to re- present the \Cream of the Ameri- can. youth!\ If that is the cream, I'd hate to have to spenct very much time with the \skim milk.\ What is even more surprising, is that the student body bad been warned well in advance of the pro- gram, and should have remained home, if they knew they would re- act in such a manner to that pre- sentation. And, I for one, am· sure that they knew bow they woultl react under those circumstances. Getting back to you1• very fine editorial, I feel that you summed up the entire situation perfectly when you stated: \Union Students during last Monday's program in- dicate that they epitomize the worst Side of the 'Younger Gener- ation' as depicted by 'Time'.\ Keep up the good work! MARVIN KOHN Response From First Symposium Dear Mr. Schwartz: I have your letter oil NovembeJ; 30th together with a copy of your Concordiensis which contains your write-up of me as. a Presidentia1 candidate. ! appreciate the very nice and ger.erous things which you said about me. But I think that my place is on the Court. Yours faithfully, WILLIAM 0. DOUGLMl, Associate J·ustice, U. S. Supreme. Court. Dear Mr. ·schwartz: Thank you for your thoughtful• ness in sending the President the tearsheets from CONCORDIENSIS which accompanied your letter of November thirtieth. He· appreci~ ates your interest in giving him ·an opportunity to see the sym- posium. Sincerely yours, JOSEPH SHORT, Secretary to· the President Dear Mr. Schwartz: Thank you for sending to us a copy of the political symposium which appeared in the student newspaper which you edit. Senator Douglas is away from Washington on an extended trip, .but he will, I am sure, be compli- mented by the generous analysis of your Mr. Griffith. .At the same time, I should in- form you that Ser:ator Douglas is definitely not a candidate, as he has said in repeated public state- ments. It is nevertheless, worthwhile for yout' student paper to develop these discussions of possible candidates in order to stimulate your leaders to a more careful analysis of the ·men and issues in 195Z. As others like Governor Warren, Paul Hoff- man, Senator Kefauver, Governor Stevenson, and Mr. Justice Vinson are mentioned, I assume you will find it worthwhile to print resumes of their careers and opinions on im.portant issues. Good luck in your efforts. Sincerely yours, FRANK W. McCULLOCH, Administrative Assistant Dear Mr. Schwartz: Your efforts to promote greater interest in the political life of our country is most commendable. Per- haps if college newspapers through- out the country adopted your tech- nique and if other forms of .com- munication emphasized the respon- sibility of our citize'ls to vote there would be a greater turnout of ·voters on election day. I'm sure you know that only about 50 per cent 'of the eligible voters normally cast ballots in this cour.try and on some occasions, the total is down to 25 per cent. Compare these fig- ures with the 86 per cent of Great Britain and the equally high fig- ures in other countries. My only criticism of your pre- sentation is In connection with your description of General Eisen- hower's attitude. I do not believe- we can safely say that he has fallen back on his 1948 statement withdrawing his name from the Republican list of potentials, as you said in your introduction. It seems to me that his statements are on the positive side. Certainly those who are closest to him are convinced be will be a candidate Utis year. On the whole, however, I am sure your efforts will receive the warm reception they deserve. Yours sincerely, LUKE P. CARROLL Assistant to the Editor New York \Herald-Tribune\ ---<0--- Make-Up Tests :Registration for make-up tests to be given on Tuesday-Wednes- day, January 8-9, must be <;oni.- pleted at the Office of the Regis- trar before three o'clock, Wednes- day, December :19. Students must obtain at the Registrar's Office a slip to be signed by the instructor giving the course and return the slip t othe Office of the Registrar for the Dean's signature. Students are required to pay a registration fee of one dollar unless they pre- sent an excuse for illness Jrom Dr. Arony- or were absent due .to an authorized activity. The exam~ ination scheduie will be made dur- ing the Christmas vacation, there- fore, all make-up -registrations lll.ust be !lOmpleted by Dec. 19. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14. 1951 SOUND AND FURY By Monroe Silver.man It is a .sad thing to have to com- mend Elmer Rice for courage and ·Integrity. Sad, certainly not be- cause Mr. Rice has cb0sen to sac1•ifice his ma- terial welfare for the sake of free- dom, but sad be- cause such a sac- rifice is neces- sary in America, unfortunate be- cause only where fear suppresset freedom c o u 1 d such an act have to take place. Mr. Rice is one of our foremost ,playwrites, a Pultizer Prize win- ner, a producer, a believer in civil liberties and incidentally, an ardent anti-communist. His contract with the producer~> of the Celan.ese Theatre (a major~TV drama pro- gram) provided him with, \as much control over the script, cast- ing and production as he may wish.\ ' When Rice chose actor John Garfield to play a lead in the Rice .drama ''Counsellor-at-Law\ the attorney (A. Walter Solocow} for the advertising agency (Elling- ton and Co., Inc.) which repre- sented the sponsor (the Celanese Corp.) rejected Garfield (also a non-communist) on p o lit .J c a 1 grounds. At this Rice resigned his lucrative position as director of the Celanese Theatre. He charged that Celanese actors must have political clearance from the advertiser's, counsel, that a blacklist · (\Red Channels\) dominated the Theatre's choice of actors, and stated that, \I don't care what an actor's poli- tical beliefs are as long as he fits the pa,r.t for wbi'<.h be is cast.\ These statements of Rice's high- light the two major issues in- volved. The first, is the issue of blacklists-the issue of guilt with- out trial, guilt by association and guilt by acusation. The magazine \Red Channels\ is a blacklist,. a list of those actors, directors, etc. whom the magazine considers sub- versive. This list is circulated among sponsors and advertisers. and is used as a basis for hiring and firing employees. <Witness the Jean Muir case. Muir lost her TV acting job after being listed in \Red Channels\ and bas since been unemployed despite the fact that she has been cleared.) Now \Red C~nnels\ proves nothing - it merely accuses. The accusation it- self,. without tesimony, without tr.ial, without proof, is sufficient to cause loss of job. It is the per- fect smear c[l.IIlpaign. Merely ac~ cuse a man, Iist him on your black, list, .and he is destroyed, his job is gone. It, of .course, violates a basic concept of American freedom - that a man is innocent until proven guilty. The m.or.e fundamental issue in- volved is the one of guilt. What ,is this all~powerful, mysterious, con- demning guilt? It is merely :Poli- ticaJ .opinion-personal, 'Private, in- violable politic!!Jl opinion. f.Iere in the United States·, the ·country of fvee thought, free speech, and the ,secret ballot, nien are losing their jobs because of their political 'be- iiefs. Who In a democracy is: CiJ.pable of stating that this belief is ,good,. this ,bad? If you have such a man (and in the U.S. we have' some who claim. this omniscience, as Senator McCarthy, etc.} you have no ·demo• cracy. Democracy presupposes the· right of each citizen to chose his own beliefs. If we set 1.\psta'ndards denying freedoms to. those af any political beliefs, we set up prece- dents for denying freedom to all. The limitation of the liberties of one group is the restriction of the general liberty of the nation. When any ininority (politicaJ. or otherwise) is stifled, the reign of fear begins. People become afraid to speak their minds, to fight for their rights. They don't join the organizations Whose principies they believe in because they are afraid ·of .being branded. They submit to the rule of the bigots by not fight- ing it. And this submission to fear is the destruction of freedom. Is a man free to speak his mind when he knows it may cost him his job? Is a ·student free to join a group when he knows it may cost him admission to graduate school? Fear can destroy liberty - and there are those today who are spreading fear and creating hys- teria for just this purpose. This fear which exists in America today is stifling our freedoms. Few dare fight for what they believe; tQ do so is dangerous. (Mr. Rice resigned his job; Miss Muir lost hers; others fear for theirs.) Perhaps the few who ,do fight gespite the costs realize the far greater price of sub- mission-the loss of the freedoms they cherish. For Your Information FRIDAY, DEC. 14-Daily Assem- bly, Recital Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Faculty Woman's Club; Christmas Tea, Mrs. Huntley's 3 p.m.; Choir rehearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; Cambrian Male Chorus, MC, 8:30 p.m.; Basketball, Nott Terrace H.S. vs. Troy H.S., Gym, 7:30 p.m. SATURDAY, DEC. 15 - VarSity Basketball, Union vs. McGill at Schenectady, 8:30 p.m.; Varsity swimmirfg, Union vs. Wililams at Williamstown, SUNDAY, DEC. 16-Annual Christ- mas Music Festival, MC; 11 a.m. Musical .Service by Choir; 4 p.m. organ recital Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, assisted by the Union College Choir, 7:30 p.m. The Carol Sing. MONDAY, DEC. 17-Daily Assem- bly, the B<tn<l, MC, noon; Glee Club Rel)earsal, OC, 7 p.m~; Women's Staff Assn. Party, USO, Clinton St1•eet, 5:30 p.m.; Concert by the GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS an~ FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 State St.-Since 1895 ~-~- --··-----11!111·-'i : Serving Union•s Men I 1 · For Years : : See your agent on Camp1.1s I : UNITED : I CLEANERS r •. I TAILORS I ,I I Phone 4-5676 • I 114 State St~ near Ferry 1 !.-- ......... _-- ... ---··· . ..., Union College Band, MC, 8 p.m. College Community and their friends cordially invited.lfo charge (2 P01NTS CREDIT): Varsity Bas- ketball Union vs. St. Lawrence at Schenectady, 8:30 p.m. TUESDAY, DEC. 18--Daily Assem- bly, speaker, Prof. Wm. Bristol, MC, noon, \Latin America, III,\ (last in series.) WEDNESDAY, DEC. tO-Christ- mas Recess begins at 4:30 p.m. THURSDAY; JAN. 3-dlasses re- sumed at 8 a.m. Daily Assembly, to be announced. MC, noon. FRIDAY, JAN. 4-Daily Assembly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon. (Final Examinations begin on January 21 and continue through January 23. Mid-term recess - January 24-February 2. Registra- tion, second semester; Sunday, Feb. 3). For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here William H. Plath Auto Service 601· UNION STREET James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street FRIDAY w 'l'hl with a nation's betweer tionism. escapab througl .As s~ The w1 small pr denly· a' teeming tacbmen1 turns ar• empty 1• disturbed lighted il kill a m grenade blow up turn in ; ing befo req~ires to set tl Our pi only on East. It any are1 pattern limit ou a magni of the greater ate dan~ The ~ designat' stretchef India to of the ( quarter in one ' in confl survival. does no1 more !ill destruct' with a recogniz urgency Trem The I friendly undergo ended h power ' the cut'l strati on. customil as an plagued that thi borders. found li dom smouldE war. Ev if not 1 is prese that se• prior t< In ev carry u rising 1 munist\ with a• later E within against States: involveJ Each ~ that ' troops cisions formul~ From opinion ate UsE tion, a the na1 determ States, is our believe curren1 in the quest! a We he ions of stud en· full til feel t1 will bE pose. l found pres en throug the an presen the 01 sure greate altern1 bope, • that ·

it- out ent ac- is in- •iS on- in- in of be- ble od,. of he or of ey to ar Is \ FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1951 What Should be u.s. Far EaStern Policy? By Arthur H. RQsenfeld The people of the United States are today confrented · with a world situation that no longer leaves room for ·any· nation's detachment. There is no question as to a choice between .a sa-called internationalist role or one of isola-· tionism. The guns ·Of Korea have brought home the in-. escapable fact that individual secmity can only he achieved. through the e~>taplishment of wol'ld wide guarantees. .As Silllfe as Our Neighbors ~------------~ The world has developed like ai··B·• p t• sman provincial village that sud-.· I- ar ISan denly· awakens to find itself a· teeming me~ropolis. Previous de- .. Program I' s· tachment drsappears when one • · · · turns aroUnd to discover the qnce • Members of the Panel Advocate Red China Recognition By Davis w. Griffith and Herbert L. Schmertz· . port, in complete blindness to the realities at hand. Theoretical arguments aside, (al- though we believe they have bear- ing) capitalism in Asia fashioned after our own proquctive system will not solve the problems enum- erated above. Asia cannot aUord to wait some seventy\five years or ·so for piecemeaJl industriaJi.zation through investment capital. Planned social and economic development on the part of native governments The time has come-indeed, it is the one way out. It is the only is long since past-for a major re- means by whicll the people of Asia vision of American Far Eastern will be in a position to help them- policy along lines which will lessen selves and achieve economic and :vather than augment present deep political independence. No road to seated tensions. It is time for us this goal is an easy one. empty lot next door filled with . Expedient disturbed neighbors. A match.· · · · · · · lighted in a tenement dwelling can By Lawrence w. Levine to realize and realize fully that , present day problems in Asia are In respect to a soluUon in terms not primat\ily a function of Ameri·· of American foreign policy-and can-Soviet conflict, but the result also in terms of peace for the of justified ferment for social worl~-there are two distinct prob- change-rapid social change-that lems ~t. hand: (1) a course of action kHl a man many blocks away; a grenade exploding in China can· Ever smce June, 1950, the focus blow up the world. We cannot of the world's attention has been turn in any direction without see- on the Far East and the attitude of ing ·before us some situation that \wait and see\ has 'changed to a requires only the smallest spark ·thoroughly positive program. The to set the entire earth in flames. administration . policy since then Photo Williams Left to right are Herbert L. Schmertz, Ralph A. Ozeki, Law- rence W. Levine, Bill T. Kishimura, Foster P. Doaile, Pat Laltsh· minarsu, Davis \V. Griffith, and Arthur H. Rosenfeld. ' has been long in the making. Be:· pertammg to governments that ginning with a bj:l.sic landholding have already gone Communist, and system that the West has not seen _(2) a plan f.or those nations .st~Il since feudalism and increased by m th~ wa~ermg control of Asiatic imperialism and exploitation by the· reachonarres. has been: Our present symposium turns in 1. Economic aid ar.·d technical• only one direction; to the Far assistance to set up self-supporting. East. It is impossible to extricate economies in those Asiatic nations· any area from the overall world' that are free from war and that pattern but we have attempted to' have governments the United . p· . ol· •. cy. M: ust limit our focus in the hope that: StateS will recognize. a magnification of a small section; 2. Arms and· supplies to those: of the problem will produce a· forces that are trying to defeat Safeg·uard greater realization of the immedi~ Communist or Communist sup- . ·. · · · : ate dangers confronting us. ported forces. · The area we have arbitrarily Jlarriman Administers ·Spending Am·eri· can. s designated as the \Far East\ stretches from the boundaries of On November 1, 1951, Averill India to the eastern-most reaches' Harriman assumed the post as Di-· of the Chinese coast. Within this'' rector of the Mutual Security Ad- By Foster P. Doane ministration, to which a bi~partisan quarter every nation in the world vote of Congress had appropriated in one way or another is engaged American for!!ign policy in the Far East can be summed up in one word-tragic. In a short space of five years, Communist forces have scored tremendous gains at little cost. China has become part of the Soviet system, guerilla wars are being fought in Malaya, Indo- China, and the Philippines, and the bulk of American military power is bogged down in Korea in a war that the Administration is reluct- ant to win. Drifting aimlessly. in: a ·sea of appeasement, the U. S. State Department flounders from crisis to crisis without any com- prehensive plan or policy to meet and defeat the Communist drive to conquer all Asia. in conflicts that vitally affect its $7,328,903 to carry out the Truman survival. Determined disinterest ·program. 25 % of this amount is to be spent on Southeast Asia, at does not mean safety but appears the discretion of Mr. Harriman. It more likely to result in rapid self- is important to see the situation in destruction. Each nation is faced, Asia and to understand the Tru- with a problem that must be· man administration policies in that recognized and solved and its part of the world. urgency permits no delay. The problem in Indochina is Tremendous Turmoil in Aslia The Chinese government, . long friendly to the United States, has undergone a civil war that has ended in the supremacy of a new power openly disapproved of by the current United States admini· stration. The Philippines, still ac-. customing themselves to their role as an independent nation, are plagued with internal conflicts that threaten to spread beyond its borders. Indonesia, as well, has found little peace in its new free- dom and French Indo-China smoulders under the fury of civil war. Everywhere the conflict arises, if not manifested in o:pen war, it is present in the bitter wranglings that seem to be but a short step prior to all out struggle. In every case the ramifications carry universal impact. Each up- rising brings forth cries of \Com· munist\ or \Western Imperialist\ with added bitterness. Sooner or later every situation is placed within the absolute form of East against West. And the United States finds that implication of its involvement is always eminent. Each word may lead to an action that will carry United States troops into armed combat. De- cisions must be made and :policies formulated. great. Vietnam nationalists, under a Moscow trained leader, have established a state and are fighting to supposedly free Indochina from France ar.d her supported Boa Dai regime. The Vietnam gove)'nment has the suport of the peale, plus the open suport of every other Asiatic nation. The United States potision is dif~ ficult. Economic aid is impossible, because of the war, and the United States is forced to ally with France, because Vietnam arms are being supplied by Communist China, with whom we are not at peace: In view of past failures, it is high time that the entire structure of U. ~. foreign policy in the Far East be carefully examined. Also sub- ject to this scrutiny should be those who are responsible for ex- ecuting policy, for all too often their actions and attitudes have closely paralleled the Kremlin's de- sign for a Soviet Asia. Must Guard Own Interests The administration is taking the reasonable position of providing needed private capital in Indonesia to help presllrve political stability. Although the Indonesia\}. govern- What should be the fundamental ment is a mixed economy, based tenet of our foreign policy, not only on cooperatives and Socialist eco- for the Far East, but for the rest nomic organizations financed by of the world? Above all, it should private capitalism and reg1,1lated by safeguard and defend American in- the government, it has Communist terests. It is not in our interest to su:port. With United States aid, have the seaports along the China Indonesia has been able to attain coast be converted to bases for So- political independence without it viet Schnorkel-type submarines being followed by political disin- that could prey upon .American tegration. shipping in the Pacific: Allowing Help Stabilize Burma Formosa to vitiate and fall to the if .possible-the wholesale ex:ecu-: tions, extortion of money from. Chinese living in America, torture of missionaries, th.e slaughter of· American P.O.W.'s, just what, would be gained in granting Red China a place in the UN? This action would be in-terpreted as a: reward for 'aggression and would' be a mockery to those who have died in Korea. Korea a U. S. Action \The American :people are in trouble and they don't know ·it.\ These words were spoken by a friend of mine who ·has just re- turned from Korea. A medical corpsman attached to the Marines, he was seriously wounded on Heartbreak Ridge. Now on con- valescent leave, he told me some- thing of the' fighting in Korea. The following remarks are based on some of his observations. Regardless of the UN label, the Korean war has been an American venture. We have contributed 98% of the air power, 90% of the ground troops, and 84% of the sea power. With the exception of the British, Canadian, French, Turkish and R.O.K. forces, .our hesitant UN al· lies have offered little other than querulous criticism. An aggressive foreign policy would see that the main burden of fig.hting isn~t con- tinualiy borne by the U. S. By allowing the Chinese Reds and th!lir Korean allies to build up their jet air-force unmolested in the privileged sanctuary of Man- . churia, the Communists now can challenge our control of the air, General Hoyt Vandenberg's repmt on the rapidly growing Red air- force emphasizes the validity of the MacArthur warning of nearly a year ago. Refusal to bomb Mult- den, the Pittsburgh of the East, and other startegic targets in Man- churia has undoubtedly prolonged the conflict and resulted in thou- (Continued on Page 4) Travel Comfort From amidst the wide field of opinions, ranging from.J;he immedi- ate lise of force to optln concilia- tion, a policy must be drawp. It is the nature of that policy tl:J.at will determine the· fate of the United States, if not the entire world·. It is our intent to present what we believe is a cross-section of the current range of opinion prevalent in the United States today on the question of Far Eastern affairs. We have also included the opin- ions of .one of our .Japanese HELP students as well as those of a :full time student from India. We feel that both of these SJ'ticles The administration has chosen to Red Chinese is hardly in our inter- support the Socialist government est, inasmuch as its capture would in Burma, whih has stabilized it- nullify the present geo-political self. Following a civil war, the strategy in that area. Our foreign Socialists fought off radical groups policy should not be tailored to fit which advocated violent overthrow the prevailing moods of 10 Down- of the government. Burmese policy· ing Street, the Quai d'Orsay, or is to try to stabilize the ,economy other world,..capitals. by buying land for 12 times the During World War II and the annual rent and reselling it to the period up to the Korean war, the peasants, which the United States liberals, progre'!sives, and the rest supports. . ·of the leftist coterie were busy In Malaya, the United States is praising the Chinese Communists. wisely assisting the British in Any criticism of the ~ntentions of fighting· Chinese Communist ban- these peaceful \agrarian reformers\ dits who have wreaked havoc. This was instantly brushed aside with must pe achieved before the eco- _the usual epithets-fascist war- nomy can be boosted. mongering, reactionary obstruction- PIUS SAFEn ARD SAVINGS WHEII YOU The United States has sent aid ism, etc. Now these same people in the form of capital goods to are clamoring for a seat for their (Continued on Page 4) friends in the UN. Disregarding- will be of great value to our pur- '' • • • •· • • • • • -- • • IIIIi • - • • • • - •IIIII - - • • .., pose. Perhaps the answer is to be I I found among the opinions we have I D J S T J N C f J y E MEN 1 S WE A 'R I presented, in any case it is only 1 . 1 through an unrelenting search that I 1 the answer will be uncovered. The c • I M 1 Sh 1 presence of popular awareness is I · a.p.lt8 en- 5 O.p. n· C. I the one factor necessary to en- I , I, sure any- chance of success. A 1 I' greater knowledge of the only- I ·1 alternatives, life or death, will, we I 167 Jay Street Schen.ectady, N. Y. Ill. hope, produce the greater concern \ that will make success possible. I I\ \------- -·- -----------.-------- THE ACME BARBERSHOP 5\09 UNION ST. ' LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY \The College Students Drug Store\ Go By Train · Otl YOUR HOLIDAY TRIP IT'S MORE FUN I Plan your holi- day homecoming by train with a. group of friends. Enjoy real comfort ••• wonderful dining car meals ••• rc:~om to roam around and relax. · YOIJ CAN DEP.EI\lD on getting home as planned-and getting back ojter vacation as well. Day in day out the railroads ofier you worry--free travel. SAVE MONEY! Get together 25 or more; all headil:)g home in the same direction at the same time. You may return indi- vidually. Then go GROUP COACH PLAN, and each save up to 45% compnred to one- ww1!oach tickets! ind ustri::U powers, this need for so- Should Recogn.lze Red China cial change has become more press- ing with each decade. World War · Regarding those governments al- II provided the final impetus. ·ready under Communist control, we should make a :deduction from the Cannot Halt People's Revolts obvious fact that the only means to peace in last analysis is through The terrific pressures generated negotiation. No matter how un- by overpopulation, primitive farm-. fruitful past efforts have been, ing techniques, lack of industriali- through the faults of both the zation, and foreign exploitation Communists and ourselve~:~, there have given rise to movements . is no excuse for us to give up. We which !J.re leading the way towards should immediately recognize Red inevitable social change in the di- China even at the expense of hav- rection of socialism. This is the ing it said that Mao has bought result of our \planning\-not Mos- his way in with blood. China cow's. Even if it were desirable should be seated in the United to do so, and we believe it is not, Nations. Our prolonged diplomatic there are no means at the dis- disdain and hostility towards Com- posal of the United States by which munism in the Soviet Union did th.ese .genuine peoples' revolts can nothing but add to the problems be forstalled indefinitely. of. harmony already existent; our present :policy in !'espect to China This is not to say that Commun- ism in the Far East is a good thing in its entirety. But is is essential th.at we recognize the simple fact th.at the Communists re:present the only force which has incorporated in its policy the obvious answers. to the problems of Asia. The State Department is in error when it in- sists that Asiatic Communism is a manifestation of Soviet aggression. There is no doubt that Russia has played an important role in aiding and utilizing these peoples' move- ments, but it is further clear that the United States through its sup· port of reactionary elements in the Far East and its almost total re· liance on force of arms has further tightened Soviet-Asian bonds. In view of these facts it is perfectly natural that Asiatic peoples' move- ments should look to Soviet Russia for social and political leadership. Chiang· Kai Shek, Synghman Rhee, Bao Dai, and other leaders of the old orders represent 'the so- cial sterility that has kept the greater part of Asia a century be- hind the West. These men also represent the sole factions that the United States has seen fit to su:p- is doing exactly the same thing. The longer we wait the greater our eventual problems will be. We should welcome any chance that presents itself in helping tile Chinese .people achieve the civil liberties that we believe are essen- tial to the proper functioning of all governments whether \proletarian\ or \bourgeoise.\ We should demon- We should demonstrate our willing- ness to establish mutually advan- tageous trade agreements, using economic cement to bind the gaps of politics. To all of these ends diplomatic recognition is an im- portant first step. We have nothing to lose but Chiang. In respect to those nations not already swept by Communist revolt we should take every means at our disposal to support the social demo- cratic factions in existence and use all pressure we can bring to bear to reform present govern- ments along democratic lines. The :people, given a. chance to vote in free elections, would soon put the fascists where they belong: out of office. We feel that actions such as these would represent a per- (Continued on Page 4) AT M. B. Graubarts & Sons CAd(}fl/iJtf a diamond here is assurance of exceptional beauty and unsurpassed value \Where the Service CHEMICALS- DRUGS is a Pleasure\' Cor. NoH Terrace and State Street Ask your Local Railroad Agent Now aJaoui group or single round·lrip suvingsl ~\\\\1 a~atfA {j\\\\\\]1 JAYSl.JUYll(WS (Nearest to the .Campus) lJ:::::::::=========.~ !;EASTERN RAILROAUS ,.SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENERATIONS''

4 Liberals in Japan Fear. Peace Pact By Bill T. Iilshirnura and Ralph A. Ozekl • present treaty has already in- creased world tension rather than ironed it out,\ since its aim is to make Japan a defensive force against Cdinmunism, Japan \de- . sire a security treatY' with the · U.S.,\ the 'Provision of the 'Pact. reads. Is not it a sad thing for Protect U.S~. -' E atmosphere of this type, America , ' . mergence SUddenly found herself rt:~Cognizing FRIDAY. DECEMBER 14. 1961 · a country to whom she hadn't Of Indl •a really paid much attention to be- (Continued from Page B) sands of ·needless casualities .. Poli- · · · ' : · fore.- tical interference in military oper- Cool to .United States fectly just'ified use of American (Continued fro~ Page. 3) Recognition aUons has induced a sense of frus- DeSCribed 1 . power. An incentives the United tration and betrayal among the , in'!hu:~n:~:t; h~~e c~~;;~~':el~a~ • ~l~!~s a~~o:~~ :;~~r~:lte:i;en~:c~ G.I.'s. By Pat La.kslmtinarsu need of help and the other with the form of consumer go0ds, (Which ·the Japanese, w·ho swore in the. constitution to sek for and con- tri~ute to the peace of the world,· that we should add to the tension at our own will, if not forced to? ' Difficulty With :Reparations FailUl'e to employ every possible: all the. faciiities· to help it. But.· Amct•ican busines would be· all too weapon 1las compelled the G.I. The Far . Eastem policy of the somehow things didn't go right. : willing to give~ but in the form of to virtually fight 'with one ·hand United States is becoming more India suddenly found herself in an basic machinery necessary for the tied behind his back. Those un- and more important each year extremely isolationist frame of.· establishment of their. own indus- fortunate enough to have been since the end 9f the war. This mind. After 150 years of foreign ·tries; Rajlid education is centra1. Since there is no stipulation as taken prisoner by the Reds have' ti.:end Is in no small p&rt due to subjugation, this b~comes immedi- . We should offer to train their engi- to the amount and the method of. ft,eguently been .found with both the fact that in tll,e last half a ately understandable. America was · neers; set up Bchools; send medical reparations thete is a difficulty in hands tied. behind their back. The decade, several' former cojotiies and .prepa-red to .go there, hoping to be supplies. We .should, in shot>t, .help 'the course of negotiation betwen atrocities are not figments of the dependent nations have now be- welcomed with open arms, only to :them help themselves. We should Japan and those nations demand- imagination. They need no Rae-· some independent nations. ..find the people and the govern- insist only that constitutional gov- The Japn.nese peace treay, to- gether w-ith the mutual secut:\ity paC'ts betw('en the United Sta.tes 1 and Japan, the Philippines, Aus- tralia and N el\' Zealand respecfi ve- ly, \erC' on\ of the t'nilt'd States' pclicies to rC'store the balance of power in Asia and to establish the world-wide defensi1•e line against the Communists' expression. ing Japanese indemnity. for their maker cartoons to publicize them. A good example of this type of ment cool and unreceptive, ernments be established which · The medical corpsman has seen · I d\ o 1 b t fl d th · th ·t f f rehabilitation. . h ·t· t . h- eountry Is n 1a. n y a ou. ve Any other country faced with a raw · eu· au or1 y rom a ree The majority of the Japanese, as has ·been r•'forted by press and 1 adio, acccr;ted the peace treaty and the security pact as the best attainable for Japan under the cir· eurrRtaneeR. But there exist strong and sincere oppositions against them, especially arr eng the intel- lectuals. As the New York \Tirrcs\ pointed out in its October 14 issue, it is readily reC'ognized that the treaty is actually rrore gener<>us than could have ben expected and that the security• agrement does offer some hope of defending an otherwise defenseless Japan. Scrne liberal intellecutals, however, hold- ing these feelings and recognizing this fact, believe that there are perils for Japan in concluding the kind of pt>ace and the security pact she signed. By introducing sor.ne of their fears and criticisms, .we, assuming that the overall view of the United States' policy will be treated by other participants, hope to contribute to this symposium. Constitution Renounced War Five years ago, encouraged and su'Pported by the U.S. and other Allied nations, we, the Japanese, repenting of our past errors and aspiring to an international peace, forever renounced war in our c<>n- stitution. And now the security pact with the U . .Sfl presupposes the rearmarn en t of Japan for the self- defense of the country against di- rect and indirect aggression. Should the elevated spirit of the constitution be altered so so<>n, especially when its spirit \\as based on the uniYersal law of hurranity, received the full support of the world, and has been sought so earnestly b~1 the Japanese? We find here that American idealism which was rranifested in the United Na- tions Organization has slightly turned toward the power politics. Another Important factor that makes us not willing to accept the \lenient\ treaty is that Chi!la, neither Peiping nor Taipei, was even invited to the peace confer- ence. It was China that suffered most from our aggression, Simply because there was no agreement between the U.S. and the United Ringdom as to Chinese sovereignty, responsibility of choice was shifted upon the shoulder of Japan, which embarrasses her very much. At least Comrr.unist China will not sign the llind of treaty Japan signed. It is not certain whether It is wise for the future of Japan to sign the treaty with Nationalist China. Especially when we thin.lt of the economic aspects (trade both with Communist and Nation- alist China being lndispensible for our economy), we find ourselves quite at a loss. Could Provokp Russia, Chin.a The greatest fear or Japan is whether such a positive step against Comrr:unism provokes Rus- sia and China. Article I of th.e Peiping-Moscow treaty of Febru- ary., 1950, stipulates: \The two con- tracting parties undel'tak.e jointly to adopt all necessary measures within their power to prevent a repetition of aggression and viola- tion of peace on the part cf Japan or of any other State that may di- rectly or indirectly join with Japan in acts of aggression.\ If the Korean truce negotiation turns to be a failure. what comes next will be the bombing of Manchurian and Chinese bases. No one knows how the Soviet Union will interpret the provisicn \1\ith the Red China in such an event. We have wished for str let neutrality. No\\\- we ex:- pressedly joined the \Western\ side of the world, thus endangering our- selves to the tlireat of war. · In the growing tension between the two major carrps of the world, what the small country like Japan with no arrnarrent can do is either to add to or to lessen the tension. \Mainichi Japanese-English ne-w·s- · paper, states, \The signing of the \gibl t e mu Ila ed bodtes wit his own yeal's ago, when India was still ·Sl·tuatl'on where open fr~·end·ll\ness electorate. We should resort to Last but not the least negh e . eyes.. Yet, we negotiate with those B E · · '1\ 'd 1 h is the fact that Russia, China, In- 1 . th . h part of the · ritish mpire, very on her part was rebuffed would m11 tary at on y w en U seems · .peop e m e ptous ope we may little was known in this· cotintry · that alJ: economic measures have dia, and Burma either did not stgil get a precarious peace and sal-· probably react with hostility. But· or attend the conference or re-' . f . k about India. The .planning and thanks to men of the calibre of ·failed; when it seems as if· an ceive the invitation. India decided vage ·sorne 0 our sm ing prestige_. execution of foreign policy was an· D , armed minority or forces from to terminate the state of war with \No Substitute for Victory\ ,easy task because they did not Dean Acheson and other State €'-· without a:re about to seize control t t h h t d Th . h partment .officials, ·an ugly situa-. without popular mandate. Japan as soon as the .present rea Y In his historic address to Con- - ave muc o · o, mgs · ave .Uon was .prevented. . is put in force and Burma is said gress on April 19th of this year, ·changed considerably, however, in All questions pertaining to Asian to follow India's suit. But, tech- General MacAI'thur stated that in the last few years, and the speed· India found herself trying very foreogn policy Jiinge on one basic nically, Japan remains in the state war there is no substitute for vic~ with which such events have oc- hard in the next few years from fact: Asia needs industrialization d Ch . d b d tl· d 'b d 1947 to 1951 to be· neutral,. and of war with Russia an ma. tory. But Truman, AchesOn & cure can e mo es Y · escrt e · · to solve its. ·problems and will this has been interprete\ by many Thus far we have introduced the Company are now willing to settle as breathtaking. \' · achieve that end through one . leading men in this country as a. b opinions of the liberal minds of for an insecure stalemate. After · means. or another. ·The urqen •of · Turmoil FoNowing War . sign .that India was going Com-· Japan. As surmised in the same six months of fruitless truce nego- proof for democracy and social above-mentioned isue of the New tiations, all there is to show is a The last war end'ed with almost mUnist. To anyone who says that, justice lies with us, and we have Y k 'T' \ th I f J n J'u t d d A · 1 h. If th ld · · d \th I will ask him to take a trip there·. hitherto shown complete .pugnacity· or • 1 mes, e quam o apa re- vena ·e enemy an · an mert- a · e wor m rums ·an WI· and see for himself how many . is warmly understood .by Ameri-. can casualty list over 100,000. A I little chance of any immediate im- <i:!ommun. ists are in .prison. · in .respect to our r_esponsibilities. cans. Despite the world prevailing leadership tainted with graft and · provement. There was unrest in . We believe that the l'ealization of fears of colision of the two major corruption has crawled and trailed' Britain which resulted in the over- During this stage of Indian evo- the policies presented here is t4e .camps, the future of Japan looms its flag in the mud of Korea. .Ap- throw of Churchill. The Labor lution, America found it guite un- only means to .prevent Korea after btight and hopeful for her people. peasement in Rorea will not bring Party that came into power was pleasant several times to see India Korea. We must stop walking on Being given the freedom and inde- about a lasting peace, but will quite a bit more interested in .giv- oppose her on various issue13, most- Asian taes in our sleep. pendence of their own country, the quicken the pa.ce toward a new ing independence to their fovmer ly in the United Nations. Some of Japanese people are now willing to an\'! costliet· war. colonies than were their predeces• them are; (1) Recognition of Com-,-------------~~ contribute to world peace, aspiring Aq~erican foreign policy in the · sors. India and Burma are two munist China, < 2 l Differences of ·pro- Western in her attitud·e to- to the integrity of their own coun- Far East should be firm and con- examples of a bloodless revolution, policy in Korea, < 3 J Formosa, ( 4 J wards world problems.. Th() elec- try. We look upon the present sistent. Constant vacillation dis- the like of which the wovld had Certain clauses in the Japanese· tions next month, in which 175 mile achievement of Japan as one of the mays our friends and encom·ages never witnesses ··before. What Peace T·reaty. ·lion pe 0 pte, o:t; a total population successes of the United States' for- the enemy. Those responsible for seemed more like a paradox: how- of 360 million, will vote is a sign eign policies, which are now taking past mistakes should be fired. With ever was the fact that regard for :Isolationism Over that the second largest Republic places in various parts of Asia. an aggressive foreign policy arid Britain ran higher right after In my opinion, India has gone in the world in shaking off its ---0,--- Administration (Continued from Page 3) Thailand and Ceylon, which are the richest, safest countries in Asia today, and are r.ot threatened· by Communism. The administration has concluded 99 year mutual defense pacts with both Japan and the Philippines, our two greatest aliles in Asia. We have given the Philippines trade. concessions, plus $2 billion aid since the conclusion of the war. By this aid, we have promised to cement relationships by assuming part of the reparations burden the Philip- pines demanded of Japan. It is necessary for the United States to give both military and economic aid to Asia. This Is a bi-partisan policy. By economic aid, we can aid and support friend- ly, non-Communist nations. By military aid, we will help destroy armies supported by imperialist, Communist governments. It is this policy which we hope will create stability and peace in the Far East. • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Co. capable men to carry it out, the August 15, 1947 than it ever had through her period of isolation and. lethargy and the day when India Far East may be saved from fur- in 150 years. several significant signs indicate. will be a: happy, contented, and ther Communist aggression. In an intensely nationalistic that she is going more and more . peaceful country it not far off. M.E.'s AT DU PONT [31 Plant engineering and production supervision offer interesting careers for science graduates In the past two issues of the Digest you've read of the broad opportuni- ties that are offered mechanical en- gineers in research and development work at Du Pont. This month let's look at oppor- tunities for rnen interested in any of the branches of plant engineering -8uchasmaintenance, power, design and construction-or in production supervision. Efficient maintenance is an impor- tant cost factor in the continuous p:roce...q,.c::es of a mode:rn chemical in- d'llstry. The M.E. is called upon to diagnose troubles~ work out correc- tive measures, and supervise repa.U:s. Frequently he increases produc~ tion. by developing preventive main- tenance measures. So vital is this work that in one divisionofthe Com- pany, 500 men of all crafts, along with. a routine maintenance group, spend almost all their time on it. One example of the problems fac- ing Du Pont engineers is the Dlam- tenance of pumps made to tolerances of0.0001 11 and operating at pressures up to 6000 p.s.i. In power work, also, problems re- quiring applicationofmecha:irlcal en- gineering principles arise. For in- stance, a metal required in one chem- ical process is melted at 800°F, by immersion heaters fired by butane, which is ex:pensive. Conversion to fuel oi1 presented the problem of complete combustion in the immer- sion chamber. Du Pont M.E.'s re- de$gned the heaters so combustion OVERHAUL on poiythene area injeetion pump is six-hour job for three men. Work must be sCheduled for minimum disruption of output. F. E. SPELLMAN; JR., B.S.M~E., M.M.E_, Ohio State '51, and D. A. Smith, B.S.M.E., Pur- due '40, discuss a change in feed wheel design of nylon; spinning machine. Production supervision attracts many mechanical engineers. 1\{en who have the ability and interest usually move into it by one or two routes: they ac- quire background on all stages of a plant's operationS' by helping design the plant, or by operating on the job. MAINTENANCE TEAM making a speedy change of a methanol valve to minimize pr01luction loss. Sometimesstudents .. ofmechanicalen- gineering feel that in a chemical com- pany they will be overshadowed by chemical personnel. This is not the case at DuPont. Here, hundreds of adminis- trators and supervisors, up to the rank of vice-president, ~;~tarted as M.E.'s. ·-· Opporfunllles for men and women with many typos of training are described In· the ~page broctlure \The Du:Pont Company and the College Graduate.'' For your free copy, address 2521 Ne. mours Bldg.; Wilmington, Del. SAVE 15% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% could be complete and the hot gases recycled in water to use all the avail- ableheat. In design cmd construction of ·chemical plants, mechanical engi- . neerlng agajn is of major importance NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out O.rders Call Sch.-6-9766 Raw, Steamed Clams \Meet and Eaf crt EDDIE'S\' !547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS--$5.75 for $5.00 A FIREMAN adjusts louvers for. the proper com- bustion of pulverized cor,tl. Blown into furnace t:lm~ugh. pipes, it bums at 250(J>F. because of the wide variety ofplants built and intricacy of their equip- ment. Engineers collect basic data, design and select equipment. They also supervise many steps of con- struction untilthe plant is operating. BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ••• THROIJGH CHEMISTR·Y Entertaining, Informative-listen to \Cavalcadeof Am~rica,\ Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to.Coast M{ De Th1 morrow rning tE exciting This wj Union winnin! underw v Wililar their 0n . last yea which e :During t two poo 440, wer1 ors and events tl to wrap time the siderabl~ freshmeJ mers, w William I y!Jar's s< This v the Epb eludes Brown had the three co they we com par~ dicate t very ha · a. victoi lack ·Of ning tiz: have be several able of. The tinued c when t1: records neer's P' Soph<im his own record 1 in 1:43 has be, lowered time fr< Hartn Reiners yard n picked points , 220, DuJ place 8 trailed day ca} places ' Dorse ~ across 1 Phil nounce1 but wh after t the hOJ --·-.-. 0

f FRIDAY,.'D.ECEMBER 14, 1951 Mermen at Williams, Defe·at ~Hamilton, RPI Bas'ketball Outlook By Irwin Barg The \Flying Dutchmen\ will invade Williamstown to- morrow .afternoon to meet the highly rated Williams swim-· rning team in what promises to be the toughest and most exciting contest of the season :for Ray Mullane's boys.· This will be the second meet away.fr.om Foote Pool for the' Union squad, which will be out to extend their current. winnin.g skein to .twelve meets when the first event gets underway at 2:30 p.m. Wilila.ins in Openet• winner. Freshman John Sherwood · Wililams handed the Dutchmen· took third place for Union. Love- · their only setback of the season day was the 100 yard dash winner, . last year in a thrilling contest, · with Dorse and Stark second and which ended with a 45-30 score. third once again. Hartmann's · During the course of .the afternoon Z;32.8 was ,good enough to win the ' . individual backstroke event and two pool records, in the 220 and teammate Howie Kloth took the 440, were set by Jones of the visit- ·second place points. ors and it wasn't until the last two Gerry Geismar was disqualified events that the Ephmen were able.: for an illegal stroke in the 200 yard· to wrap up the victory. Since that ·breaststroke. gi·vin~ Bill Skiff, of . . . · RPI, the wm. Cr1s Muhlert con- time the Dutchmen have been .con- · tinued to show a lot of prorr.ise by' siderably strengthened by the ·taking second· place._ Cooper, Stark,: freshmen and sophomore swim- ! Fink, and Dorse finished the s.cor- mers, while little is .known about . ing for Union by winning the final , relay, thus givir.g the Dutchmen a Williams, except that most-of last total of 57 points to 27 for the home y(lar's squad win be r-eturning. ··team. This will be the opening meet on T·rOlln~e Hamilton the Ephmen's schedule, which in-· eludes such' powerful squads as: In a :onesided meet on Wednes-· Brown and Bowdoin. Union has, day, the mermen romped over a had the advantage of swimming in visiting Hamilton team winning by three contests already and, thoug!t a 66\18 count. John Bird, Muhlert, they won ;all of their meets With and Cooper sent Union off to a comparative ease, the times. in- good start as Coach Mullane dicate that Mullane:s men wiil be. juggled his medley relay team. very hard pressed to bring home 'Duffy was the 220 winner and Art Photo by Forman Coaches Pete Nistad and Bernie Max and Marv Zepf reflect the success of the Union basketball team, as they watch the Dutchmen lose one of their first three games. · a. victory. Perhaps :because of a Fink ~ontinued his fine freestyle lack ·Of real opposition, the win- work by taking second place. Dorse ning times of the last t.w.o meets and Stark dominated the 50 yard Intramural Seores have been higher than those that~ dash, with R'einers setting the in- several of the swimmers are cap- dividual medley record, which has In the intramural volleyball able of. been broken three 'times in three leagues, .the Betas downed Kappa meets. Hartmann had to settle. Nu 2 games to 0, Kappa Sigma Defeat Rl'I for second place this time. d'efeated Beta Eta 2-l, and Phi Sig- The \Flying Dutchmen\ con-. Metzger won ·an uncontested yic- ma Delta knocked off Phi Sigma tinued on their record setting trail tory in the dive, with Ruck and Kappa, on Monday night.. In the when they broke two more college'. Fox, of Hamilton, s)lading Rog ·last game of the evening Phi Delt · records against RPI, in the Engi-: Hancher. Dorse and Stark con- downed KA. Theta Delt lost to 'Psi neer's pool last Saturday afternoon. tinued as a winning combination in U, Sig Chi downed D Chi, the Betas Sophomore Dick Hartmann reset the 100 and Hartmann and Kloth edged Sig Phi, and Chi Psi beat his own 150 yard individual medley breezed home in the backstroke Kappa Sigma on Wednesday eve- record time by beating Artie Fink event. Geismar and l\[uhlert gave ning. in 1:43.7. Werner Rieners, who the home team a,nother first and Kappa -Alpha won their second has been having a great year, second in the 200 yard breast- close ball game when they defeated lowered John Duffy's · 440 record stroke, but Hamilton eaptured their Pip 34-32 in basketball,. on Tuesday. time from 5:20.5 to 5:18.3. only first place in the 440. Bates In the next game, D Phi beat Call JV Hoopsters Coach Sam Hammerstrom has announced that he will meet all candidates for the Junior Var- sity Basketball team, in Alumni gym, <m Monday, December 17th. Interested freshmen and upper- . classmen should report at 8:00 p.m. Ol' after their la~t class. 5 Garnet Five Seeks lnitial ·Win Against U. of McGill By Paul Gilbet't Union's varsity quintet will play host to McGill Uni- . · versi ty of Montreal tomorrow night, after drop :ping their first three starts of the young season. When the relatively green Garnet squad meets the visiting Canadian team at • 8,:30 p.m., they will be facing a stubborn foe. Second Meeting @>-----------~~'-\--~-- The McGill contest last year, in their home gym, was_ a close one,· with the home team staving off a last minute Union drive. Nistad's club should give the Canadians a tough tussle in their second meet- ing, if they improve on their shoot- ing a.ccuracy from the fioor and I foul line and their erratic ball- handling, which has keynoted the Union reversals. Last Tuesday night, at Amherst, the Garnet succumbed to their third defeat when a taller and more poised Lord Jeff squad scored an easy 57-37 victory. Startir.g slowly, the Dutchernen failed to score a point during the first eight min- utes of play, but then went on to a 19 point scoring spree in the sec- ond quarter. When the half was ended Union led by a 25-24 score. During this spurt, the Dutchmen were sparked by Sophomore Marv Zepf, who scored all his seven poir.ts in this period, and Gene Schwartzman, who did much of the play-making. At the outset of the second half, the Lord Jeffs employed a fast and aggressive attack and, taking advantage of the fading Union of- fense, pulled to a commanding lead, never to be overcome. The Union attack garnered on:Iy 12 points during the third and fourth periods. Freshman Joe Sutka, with eleven points, and Glenn Kinns, with eight points, were the leading scorers for the Garnet. Kinns shared high scoring- honors for the home team with rune points apiece. Coach Nistad is hoping to im- prove his team's offensive punch by stressing shooting, es,Pecially foul shooting, in his practice sessions. The ·quintet will have to improve its shooting percentage ·in order to pick up their initial victory tomor- row evening. Though unannounced, the starting line-up may find Joe Sutka ·in the pivot position, Gene Schwartzman and B<1b Murray at the guard spots, and· Marv Zepf along- with Glenn Kinns holding down the forward slots. The box score: Amh.erst G },' p Uniou (j F p Wright I 1 5 Zepf 3 I 7 Magee I 2 4 Par·isi 0 0 0 Weaver 7 0 14 L'hr!stie 0 0 ·o Hugg 0 0 0 Daraades 0 0 0 Fisher 2• 2 B Kirms 4 0 8 Slight 2 3 7 C's tan taltes 0 0 0 Bennett 2 5 9 Sutl~a 3 5 11 Gililgan I u 2 Whilman 0 0 () Mahar 4 0 8 Batltiewicz 0 0 0 Wilson I 0 2 S'artz-rnan 3 1 7 O'Loug)tlin 0 0 0 Davenport 0 0 (} Murray 1 0 2 Giliflllan 0 0 0 RM!n-hardt 1 0 2 McS1veeney 0 .() 0 Totals 23 13 57 Totals 15 7 37 Amherst •....•..•.. 14 10 18 15-57 Union .............. 6 19 4 8-37 Tomorrow's Games The final round of basketball games to be played before the Wililams Wins Christmas recess will be run off Un.ion was defeated by the Wil- tomorrow afternoon, in the gym. Iiams squad, 52-48, last weekend in The following contests will be held: Alilmni Gym. Nistad's charges had Beta Eta Upsilon vs. Beta Theta many opportunities to \ice\ the. Pi game, but failed to take advantage A.S.C.E. vs. Phi Gamma Delta of them and the Ephmen's defense managed to hold the Garnet attack Engineers vs. Delta Upsilon in check. Bob Murray and Glenn Psi Upsilon vs. Phi Sigma Kappa Hartmann, Gerry Geismar, and won the quarter-mile race and, his Kappa Sig 25-18 and the Eaters Reiners made up the opening 300 teammate, Tobias, finished ahead romped over Theta Delta Chi. yard medley relay team which of Jim Farrell. Ray Mullane un- These results left Phi Delt leading picked \lp the ~ive first place veiled two more freshmen 1n the the American loop, D Phi le.iiding points with a 3:15.4 effort. In the concluding relay, in which Thurber the Nationa:l leagae, and· the Engi- 220, Duffy gave Union another first and Matteson teamed up with neers, DU, and KA tied up for HOLD ON THERE I Better gift~s hop .before you go place and \Space Cadet\ Cooper Cooper and F'ink for the win. leadership of the Eastern league. traile.d home in third place. Love- day captured one of his two first places in the 50 yard dash as Bob Dorse and Dick Stark chased him across the fiinsh line, in that order. Hartmann W,ID.s Phil Metzger was originally an- nounced as the winner of the dive, but when the scores were retallied after the meet Walt Shanada, of the home team, was declared the THE MOB Broderick Crawford also Son oj Dr. Gene Tierney Ray Milland also FBI Girl Robert C•mmlnt;~s Timy Moore Jerome Courtland also The Lady P!loys Off VICTORIA Restaurant .. S'pe~iaf1zfng ·in Italian Foc>ds Jay Street- (C~r.. UriionJ ,... . . Have Yourself Merry Old Christmas make it a merry Ch1·istmas for the folks at home with Arrow Gifts o A.rrow Shirts $3.95 up • Sports Shirts $3.95 up • Ties •••••••• $1.50up • Handkerchiefs 35¢ up • Underwear ••. ~n~oo up· ARROW SHiitTS o TIES o SPORTS SHIRTS o UNDERWEAR o HANDKERCH!EFS home! See our Arrow Christmas Favorites Do your Christmas shopping the easy way this year! Stop ill at our store -today after classes. Pick the gifts for the m.ales oil your gift list from OIU' swell Arrow lineup. (You k:now your- self what grand, gifts they make!) Arrive home with half your shopping done-and plenty of time for a happy holiday! o Arrow Shirts .....•..• $3;95 up o Arl'OW Sport Shirts ... $3;95 Up • Arrow Ties ....... _ ... $1.50 up o Arrow Handkerchiefs . 35e Up • Arrow Underwear .... $1.00 Up NUSBAUM'.§ 447-451 STATE STREET FOR ARROW UNIVERSiTY STYlES ---------------1

6 FRIDAY, DECEMBER·14, 1951 ' And Let's Not Forget West P-oint! • • • • Examinations will be held in the Gymnasium unless otherWise di- rected. The final examinations in Draw- ing 1a and 3a will be given during the last class periods. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Miss Bouck in the Dean's Office no later than Friday, January 4, 1952. MONDAY, JANUARY U 8:3().11:30 a.m. English la (Freshman English) Sec. 4, 6, 7 in EE 22; Sec. 2 & 12 in CE 106. English lOa (Introduction to Eng- lish Literature) Sec. 8 in E.E. 22. English 21a (Shakespeare). Geology 23a (Structural Geology & Glacial Geology). Psychology 24a (Applied Pi'ly- chology) in C.E. 106. Air Science 4a (Second Year Ad- vanced) in B.H. 109. l:S0-4:30 p.m. A1t 20a (Ancient Art). German 23a (The Classical Period). Government 12a (Introduction to Government) Religion 62a (Comparailve Re- ligion) Mathematics 21a (Differential Equations) Education 3a (History & Prin- ciples of Education) E. 13 (Elements of Electrical En- gineering) TUESDAY, JANUARY 15 8:30-11:30 a.m. French lOa (Introduction to French Literature) German 5 (Scientific German) Spanish 10 a <Spanish-American Literature) Economics lla (Elementary) Sec. 1&5inE.E.22 Ecor.omics 39a (Money & Bank- ing) E. 23 <Electrical Engineering .::'heory) E. 3£a <Water Supply) E. 47 (Engineering Elect:ronics) 1:30-4:30 p.m. Art 25 (Art Appreciation> Play Producers to Give 'Angel Street' The Play Production class, under the sponsorshop of the English De. partment, will present \Angel Street,\ a three act drama which achieved considerable success on Broadway many seasons ago, some time in early Spring, Prof. Donald S. Jones announced this week. The play is supported from the academic funds of the college as a function of the drama section of the English Department. It is not directly related with Mountebanks, the now defunct student dramatic group and It is entirely independent of student funds, ----0·--- Band Sets Concert The Union College Band, under the direction of Master Sergeant Robert Miller of the college AROTC wlll present a concert in Memorial Chapel on the campus grounds, December 17 at 8:00 p.m. The event will mark the first concert of its kind by the Union College Band in many years. A varied program will be presented by the 30 musicians that comprise the group. The concert will con- sist of Christmas music, old time melodies, overtures and marches. Admission will be free. Two points credit given. ---o--- W omen's Staff Group The Women's Staff Association of Union College, comprising a group of about fifty women work- ing in various capacities In the campus offices, have contributed and wrapped about fifty-five pack- ages of toys for needy children in Schenectady. The gifts are being distributed through the Christmas Bureau of the Related Activities Committee of the Schenectady Community Chest. The committee included Mrs. Hilda E .. Hill, Miss .Sarah Fle:ming, Miss Lillian · E. Applegarth and Miss Francis Travis. The Staff Association will have Its own Christmas party on Mon- day, December 17, at the U.S.O. Lounge on Clinton Street. Supper will be served and a Christmas program will follow. r---~::~::-~~~~~--~, American Foods LUM FUNG f f Restaurant I t BEST LIQUORS j AND COCKTAILS ~~-~=~=--:~o::.:::~J History 65a (Hist. of East Asian Biology 21a (Embryology) Civilization) Geology 21a (Mineralogy & Cry- Economics 43a (Principles of stallography) In G~L. 23 Marketing) in E.E. 22 E. 27a (Therinod:v-namics) in C.E. Social Studies 55a (Techniques & 301 & 303 Ideology) E. 34 (A.C. Machinery) Chemistry 1a (General) Sec. 1, 6, 8 in E.E. 22 1:80-4::30 p.m. Chemistry Ua (Quantitative An- History 16a (History ·of the alysis) . United States) Chemistry 21a (Physical) History 25a (History of Modern Chemistry 22a (Physical) · Warfare) Economics 40a (Accounting) WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16 Sociology 59a (Social Problems in 8:30-11:30 a.m. Industrial Society) Humanities 50a (Topics in the History 64a (Greek ll:,: Roman Humanities) History) Government 48a (State & Local Chemistry 26. (Advanced Or- Government in Practice) ganic) Biology 13a <Heredjty) Psychology 12a (S t at i s t i c a 1 Methods) E. 40 (O.O.E.I.) Air Science 3a (First Year Ad- vanced) Sec. A & C. B.H. 109& 110 (Sec. B is in another Exam Group.) 1:30-4:30 p.m. English 24a (The Victorian Era) English 25a (The English Novel) Mathematics 3la (Advanced Cal- culus) Physics 4a (Classical & Modern) Sec. 2 & 4 in E.E. 22 Physics 14a <Topics in General Physics) Sec. 2 in E.E. 22 Physics 25a (Principles of Elec- tronics> Physics 26. (Introd. to Maxwell's Field Equations) THURSDAY, JANUARY 17 8:80-11:30 a.m. Sociology 31. (The Individual & His Society) Social Studies 50a (Social & Poli- tical Philosophy) Biology la (General) Biology lla <Zoology & Compara- tive Anatomy of Vertebrates) . FRIDAY, JANUARY 18 8:30..11:30 a.m. History 21a (Modern ,& Contem- porary Europe; Germany & Russia in Europe, 1815 to Present.) Economics 45a (Public Finance) Mathematics la (Anal. Geometry & Algebra) Sec. 1 & 4 in C.E. 106 Mathematics 2a (Tr-ig. & Anal. Geom. or Alg. & Anal. Geom.) Sec. 1 & 2 in C.E. 106 Sec. 5 & 8 in E.E. 22 Mathematics Ha (Differential & Integral Calculus) Sec. 2 in EE 22 Mathematics 12a <Differential Calculus) Mathematics 22a (Integral Cal- culus-Can't, of Math. 12) Education 4a (Eldu.cational Psych, & Gen. Principles of Teaching) E. 31a {Structura-l Design) in C.E. 303 E. 37a (Seminar) in E.E. 16 1:30-4130 p.m. Economics 37a (Problems of La- bor & Industrial Management) Government 47a (The Role of the U.S. in World Politics) Science 50a (An Approach to Modern Science) E. 20a .for C.E.) (Mechanics of Materials Philosophy 29a (Hist. of Ideas In Physics 21. (Electricity & Mag- Western Civilization) netism) SATURDAY, JANUARY 19 8:30-11:30 a,m, Biology 28a (J:'l\ervous System) ; Air Science Sa. (Sec. B enly} Geology i4a (Paleontology) in (Fitst Year Advanced) in B;H. 109 G.L. 21 (Sec~ A & 0 are in a:ilether Exam English 30a (American Liter-' E. 28a (RaHroad & Highway· group.) ature) Surveying) WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 2S French la (Elementary) ':rUESDAY, JANUARY .'32 Fr,ench 2b (Second Year-2nd 3 8:80-11:30 ft.m. 81'3().oll: 0 a.m. . · t semester) French 2a (Second Yettr-first: S?ciology !Sa. (Introduction o German la (Elementary) semester) . Somal Or~amzat10n) . . German 2b (Second Year-2nd, F.rench 11 (Conversation) .fn L;B.' Econom1cs l!Ba (Corporation Fin- semester) 1 , ance) Spanish la (Elementary) German 2a (Second Year~first: Geology 2a (Engineering (}eo· Spanish 2b (S.econd Year-2nd semester) logy) . semester) German lOa (In trod. to Modern: Physrcs 31. (Advanced Mach- Russian la (Elementary.) . German Literature) ' anics) E, lla (Analytical Mechanics) .Spanish 2a {Second Year-first E. 25 (SoH Mechanics & Founda- 1:8.0-4:30 ·p.m. . semester) · tions) Geology 12a (Geology & Physi- Spanish 11 (Conversation~ ~in. 1:30-4:30 p.m. ography of the United 'States) in L.B. 5 History 33a (The U.S. in the G.L. 23 E. 21 (Fluid Mechanics) ' 20th Century) Psychology la (General) Sec. 3 E. 46. (Engineering Economy- •' Economics 49 (Business Statis- in E.E. 22 for EE & CE:) · tics) Psychology lla (Psychology of. 1:30-4:30 p.m. · Chemistry 12a (Organic) Personality) Sec. 2 in E.E. 22 Latin lla {Reading of Selected Chemistry 30 (Advanced Ph;y- Prose) . sica!) MONDAY, JANUARY 2 1 Greek la (Elements of Greek)· ·Geology la (General) 8:30-11:80 a.m. Greek lla (Intermediate Course) : Mathematics 25a (Theory, of Latin la (Elements of Latin) History 24a (History of Latin. Equations & Algebraic Invarlan.ts) Music la (Hist. & Apprec. of America) E. 26a (Mechanics of Materials Music) Biology 22a (Genera'! Physiology) • for EE) English 20a <Milton & the 17th Century) History 32a <Social & InteHectual Hist. of the U.S.) Government 35a (Public Admin- istration> Chemistry 25a (Advanced Ana- lytical) Physics 33. (Atomic Physics) E. 31a (Structures) 1:80-4':30 p.m. English 13a (Play Production) History la (Hist. of Western Civilization) Sec. 1 & 5 in E.E. 22 Social Studies lOa (Logic & Sci- entific Method) Philosophy 17a (Introduction to· Philosophy) GAZETTE PRESS Printers Cflbttb ~nath }Bar . S-~dat Chesterfield ,t~ o@ -~~+ J.k1 ~ 1-<. ..... ~'R~MANJI.GER SIGNED •. ~· •. . · MILDNESS p~ NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE* *FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANiZATION • •• AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD HAS ITI -Vol. 7 Nf FE Witl for tl Week€ Februl ing o1 assuri: that h tions , betwe« Use c the firs of the elude e cause o most ir the \Sn college- Winter A go gaged schedul eight a Feb. 23 acter, t air the with· t: aroun.d Jar c .end, sta Iildepei couragE weeken b~ boo1 pro'babl viti\es v of spe< even m is expE upstair1 1000 ph \This good t< is wha for, .an clear tJ eve1•yoz partie!] \We will de body, stage ~ clal evE for any Cobn, $1.00 a1 1·ecur:tf future.' Built Weeke1 ketba.li usual f and p1 anY w dance and is not t<J fair. < mornir. what b A co the gy \coloss which .would fei:'en.<H outsidE for a ·J ter Sn< Tht Willi JaD.U: lar 1: ever) .ary wm· Rltbo until i.Jlg 'Ske[ 9 p;I · .plion '2-818 ,An the l can ca.it: .(Jhf]

6 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1951 And Let's Not Forget West P-oint! Examinations will be held in the:®•!--------------~---------------­ • • • • Gymnasium unless otherwise di- rected. The final examinations in Draw- ing la and 3a will be given during the last class periods. Conflicts in examinations <>hould be reported to Miss Bouck in the Dean's Office no later than Friday, History 65a ( Hist. of East Asian Civilizati<m) Economics 43a <Principles of Marketing) in E.E. 22 Social Studies 55a (Techniqtles & Ideology) Chemistry la <General) Sec. 1, 6, Biology 21a (Embryology) E. 20a <Mechanics of Materials Geology 21a (Mineralogy & Cry- for C.E.) stal!ography) In G.L, 23 E. 27a <Thermodynamics·) in C.E. 301 & 303 E. 34 (A,C, Machinery> 1:30-4:30 p.m. SATURDAY, JANUARY 19 8 :30-11 :30 a.m. English 30a (American Li•ter- ature) Philosophy 29a (Hist. of Ideas in • Physics 21. (Electricity & Mag- Western Civi:Jization) netism) Biology 23a <Nervous System) Air Science 3a (Sec. B only) Geology 14a (Paleontology) in (First Year Advanced) in B.H, 109 G.L. 21 (Sec. A & C are in another Exam E. 28a (Railroad & Highway group.) January 4, 195Z. MONDAY, JANUARY U 8:30..11:30 a.m. 8 in E.E. 22 Chemistry 11a alysis) <Quantitative An- History 16a <History of the French la (Elementary) Surveying) WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23 TUESDAY, JANUARY 22 French 2b (Second Year-2nd 8:30-11:30 a.m. 8:30..11:30 a.m. English la (Freshman English) Sec. 4, 6, 7 in EE 22; See. 2 & 12 in CE 106. English lOa \Introduction to Eng- lish Literature) Sec. 3 in E.E. 22. English 21a (Shakespeare). Geology 23a (Structural Geology & G laeial Geology). Chemistry 21a <Physical) Chemistry 22a <Physical) \VEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16 8:30-11:30 a.m. Humanities 50a <Topics in the Humanities) Government ·18a <State & Local Government in PracticeJ Psychology 24a (Applied Psy- Biology 13a <Heredity) Psychology 12a <S ta ti st i c a I Ad- Methods) chology) in C.E. 106. Air Science 4a (Second Year vanced) in B.H. 109. 1:30-4:30 p.m. At·t 20a <Ancient Art). German 23a <The Period). E. 40 < O.O.E.I.J Air Science 3a <First Year Ad- vanced) Sec, A & C. B.H. 109& Classical 110 l St•c. B is in another Exam Gl'OUp.l Gowrnment 12a (Introduction to 1:30-4:30 p.m. Government) English 24a l The Victorian Eral Religion 62a <Comparative Re- English 25a <The English Novell ligion) :\Iathematics 31a <Advanced Cal- X.Iathematics 2la (Differential culus> Equations) Physics 4a <Classical & Modern) Education 3a <History & Prin- Sec, 2 & 4 in E.E. 22 ciples of Education) Physics 14a !Topics in General E. 13 <Elements of Electrical En- Physics) Sec, 2 in E.E. 22 ginceringl Physics 25a <Principles of Elec- TUESDAY, JANUARY 15 ronicsl Physics 26. Untrod. to Maxwell's 8:30-11:30 a.m. Field Equations) French lOa <Introduction to French Literature) German 5 <Scientific German) Spanish 10 a <Spanish-American Li ter·at ure) Economics lla <Elementary) Sec. ~ & 5 in E.E. 22 Ecor omics 39a (Money & Bank- ing> E. 23 <Electrical Engineering .'heory) E. 3Ca <Water Supply) E. 47 (Engineering Electronics) 1:30-4:30 p.m. An ~:i <Art App1 eciation' Play Producers to Give 'Angel Street' The Play Production class, under the sponsorshop of the English De- partment, will present \Angel Street,\ a three act drama which achieved considerable success on Broadway many seasons ago, some time In early Spring, Prof. Donald S. Jones announced this week. The play is supported from the academic funds of the college as a function of the drama section of the English Departrner.t. It is not directly related with Mountebanks, the now defunct student dramatic group and it is entirely independent of student funds. ---0---- Band Sets Concert The L'nion College Band, under I the direction of !\laster Sergeant 1 Robert 11iller of the college 1 AROTC w!I! present a concert in 1 Memorial Chapel on the campus I grounds, December 17 at 8:00 p.m. The event wlU mark the first concert of its kind by the Union College Band in many years. A varied prog-ram will be presented by the 30 musicians that comprise the group. The concert will con- sist of Christmas music, old time melodies, overtures and marches. Admission will be free. Two points credit given. ---0•--- Wornen's Staff G1·oup THURSDAY, JANUARY 17 8:80-11:30 a.m. Sociology 31. <The Individual & His Society) Social Studies 50a <Social & Poli- tical Philosophy) Biology 1a <General) Biology lla \'Zoology & Compara- tive Anatomy of Vertebrates) United States) History ~5a (Ilbtoty uf ::\Iotlern Warfare) Economics 40a <Accounting) Sociology 59a <Social Problems in Industrial Society> History 64a (Greek & Roman History) Chemistry 26. <Advanced Or- ganic) FRIDAY, JANUARY 18 8:30-11:30 a.m. History 2la CVIodern .& Contem- porary Europe: Germany & Russia in Europe, 1815 to Present.) Economic:s 45a l Public Finance l Mathematics la <Anal. Geometry & Algebra) Sec. 1 & 4 in C.E. 106 Mathematics 2a <Trig. & Anal. Geom. Ol' Alg, & Anal. Gcom. l s .. c. 1 & 2 in C.E, 106 Sec. 5 & 8 in E.K 22 Mathematics lla <Differential & Integral Calculus) Sf'C. 2 in EE 22 Mathematics 12a <Differential Calculus> :\1athematics 22a 1 Integral Cal- culus-Con't. of Math. 12) Education 4a (Educational Psych. & Gen. Principles of Teaching) E. 31a <Structural Design) in C.E. 303 E. 37a <Seminar) in E.E, 16 1:30-4:30 p.m. Economics 37a <Problems of La- bar & Industrial Management) Government 47a (The F. ole of the U.S. in \Vorld Politics) Science 50a 1 An Approach Modern Science I to Rl'mf'Rff'l') German la (Elementary) German 2b (Second Year-2nd scme~tel') Spanish 1a (Elementary> Spanish 2b (Seconcl Year-2nd semester) Russian la <Elementary> E, lla <Analytical Mechanics) 1 :30--l :30 p.m. Geology !2a <Geology & Physi- ography of the United States) in G.L. 23 Psychology 1a <Genera]) Sec. 3 in E.E, 22 Psychology lla <Psychology of Personality) Sec. 2 in E.E. 22 MONDAY, JANUARY 21 8:30-11:30 a.m. Latin 1a <EI€'mcnts of Latin) Music la < Hist. & Apprec. of Music> English 20a <Milton & the 17th Century) History 32a <Social & Intellectual Hist. of the U.S.) Government 35a (Public Admin- istration> Chemistry 25a <Advanced Ana- lytical) Physics 33. <Atomic Physics) E. 3la <Structures) 1 :30-4:30 p.m. English 13a <Play Production) History 1a <Hist. of Western Civilization) Sec. 1 & 5 in E.E. 22 Social Stud~es lOa (Logic & Sci- entific Method) Philosophy 17a <Introduction to Philosophy) French 2a (Second Yeal·-first Sociology 18a (Introduction to semester) Social Organization) French 11 (Conversation) in L.B. Economics 38a (Corporation Fin- 1 German 2a (Second Year-first semester) German lOa (Introd. to Modern German Literature) Spanish 2a <Second Year-first semestet·) Spanish 11 (Conversation) in L.B. 5 E. 21 (Fluid Mechanics> E. 46. <Engineering Economy- for EE & CEJ 1:30-4:30 p.m. Latin lla (Reading of Selected Prose) Greek la (Elements of Greek) Greek lla <Intermediate Cou,rse) History 24a (History of Latin America) Biology 22a (General Physiology) GAZETTE ance) Geology 2a (Engineering Geo- logy) Physics 31. (Advanced Mech- anics) E. 25 (Soil Mechanics & Founda- tions) 1:30-4:30 p.m. History 33a (The U.S. in the 20th Century) Eccmomics 49 (Business Statis- tics) Chemistry 12a <Organic) Chemistry 30 (Advanced Phy- sical) Geology la (General) Mathematics 25a (Theory of EqHations & Algebraic Invariants•) E. 26a (Mechanics of Materials for EE) PRESS Printers Cflbttb ~natk J)at . • cmtr/1/ d@ Chesterfield ~ o@ - ~~ti/10 ~ - 3 .~1 ~ K..e-~'fi~JIIA.NAGER SiGNED .. ~.' .. The Women's Staff Association I of Union College, comprising a group of about fiftr women work- ing in various capacities in the campus offices, have contributed and ·wrapped about fifty-five pack· ag€'s of toys for needy children in Schenectady, The gifts are being distributed through the Christmas Bureau of the Related Activities Committee of the Schenectady Community Chest. The committee included Mrs. Hilda E. Hill, Miss Sarah Fleming, Miss Lillian E. Applegarth and Miss Francis Travis. The Staff Association will have its own Christmas party on Mon- day, December 17, at the U.S.O. Lounge on Clinton Street. Supper w!ll be served and a Christmas program will follow, r---;::~::-~~~::~--~1 f American Foods : LUM FUNG f I ' Restaurant 1 MILDNESS p~ NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE* *FROM THE REPORT OF A WEll-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION BEST LIQUORS 1 1 AND COCKTAILS I 1135 B~oadway Phone 6-9595 ~ ! ·------------~-~~-- • •• AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD HAS IT! ::·· ··: i·\=::. ·.::.:: .;.-:: Vol.: Wi1 for t Week Febrt ing o assur that j tions betwe Use the fir of the elude cause' most i the \S: college WinteJ A g gaged schedt eight Feb. 2 acter, all th1 with arounc Jay, end, st Indepe courag weeke: by boc proba1 vi ties of spe even r. is ex); upstai: 1000 p \Thi good 1 is wh: for, a clear 1 eve rye partie' \We will d body, stage cia! e\ for an Cohn, $1.00 ~ recurr future Buil We eke ketbal usual and I any ' dance and i1 not tc fair. morni what Ac the g \co los which would feren< outsic for a ter S1 Tl will Jan1 Iar ever a.ry will altho llllti ing 'Sl'e 9 p . pb01 2-81: A the call call Clll

