16. 1951 ~DAY .any 10% AR IN. Y. yl\ le o- m m :t- n- it g.~'& .e- so Vote T:uesday for Class Officers • \ Founded at Union C()llege in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1951 .. • Vote Thursday, Friday for Representatives PRICE 10 CENTS Green, Mann Featured Integration: Exparts·ion. · · Watch Your Step Annou.nced· At . s· • · ''S G·· ·· '' · .· prtng · ans en~e A five-year ·plan for the trn- p:t;Ovement and expansion 'Of \Union College's integration pregram has been made pos- · · -------<$ The Junior Prom this yeax will feature two top bands- T . A • t Larry Green and Bernie Mann-to provide continuous musie. . 0 ·. p• p_ ... Otn. . . \Sank· s Gene\-\Without Restraint\ is the theme of the prom wee end which begins Friday, May 4th . . sible by a grant of $75,000 Promise Danceable Music Idol Editor fNm the Carnegie Corporation, i}.ccording· to Professor Wi.Jliam W. Bennett, .chairn:an of a faculty committee appointed to· study the Can.didates for the positions of· development o.f interdepartmental editor of the Idol and Freshman cours.es. ' Record will be reviewed •by the· To Conduct Experiments · Publications Board at a meeting Prom Band Leaders Larry Green, his piano and his orchestra, featuring Gil Phelan and The Trio, wi.ll alternate with Ber- . nie Mann and the All American Band, featu_ring Tommy Hughes' The gift of $15,000 a year will next Thursday afternoon. permit the assignment of faculty Postpones Appointment nJ:einbers to. conduct a more com- At a meeting held 9n March 20, plete .experiment with the program. the Boavci postponed the appoint- A Division I integrating co.urse ment of a hew Idol editor until may be added next year, however candidates could be considered. most of the contemplated change;; Seidot· Paul Danziger examines the decayed, remains of the Howard Simons and James Dorill, will not be introduced until further steps to West College, a.$2,000 construction job which was completed ·co-editors, and David Philip, busi-. study of the program is made. less than three months ago. The steps will be rebuilt this spring ness manager, submitted their The basis of tb:e integration. pro- at the expense of the contractor, who failed to realize th!!ot freezing resigpations at the meeting. . ·gram is the beiief that the rudi- weather was no f;inJB to lay ce:rnent. A couple thousand bucks isn't -Qualified candidates for the Ido. ments of education should be worth a nickel these days. editorship should appear at the taught in the fres}J.man year and Board meeting Thursday at 4:30 that the interrelationships of all T p.m. in the Dean's office. these and subsequent courses . I. pp· eea M' t 0 A committee was appointed to. should be shown in the senio:r year.. . . . . . ; no e. ee .In.g screen applications for the posi- The trend of the expanded pro- tion of editor of the Freshman g.r.am will be toward cutting acl'Oss T s R o • Record. The Record staff is to ~~~~:!:~n~a;n::t~ s~;J~ional lines. ·. . 0 uggest e VIS I ODS ~; :~~e y~ir·:Jl!~~~~::r:~~~:.rs Hits \EI~tive\ System Frosh May Apply In a recent report, the committee The annual student-faculty Tippecano~ Conference to be Freshmen who wish to be con- stated: held this year in Hale House Lounge, will begin Sunday after- sidered for the Freshman Record \The Union College Program of noon at 2 p.m. and will culminate in a dinner at 6 o'clock. position may sub1.11it applications Integl'ation :vesulted from the fac- · to the student activities office ·by ulty's dissatisfaction with the e-du- ~ Faculty, Staff to Attend next week. cational product of the so-called Named after the meeting place In other business conducted at. 'electiv¢' system. The faculty ha;; Phantom Statue at the YMCA cabin in Rotterdam, the March meeting, the B'oard felt that in too many cases the where it has been held in past okayed the publication of the Col- Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor Of Myster~y Solved . years, the conference will •bring lege Blotter for next year and Science degrees represent a col- . · . ' l together. approximately 40 faculty gave permission to the Junior lection of disparate course\ and staff members and an equal . Prom to solicit advertising for a amounting to on·Iy thf' requirl'd A h 1' number of student representatives prom booklet. . weig ty problem was semester hours for academic cred1t. d to discUss informally a variety of . A motion to set up a central ad- f · t rapped in the laps of the Con- What is needed is a means o m e- controversial issues regarding the vert.ising bureau cover1·ng all col- cordiensis last week and this grating the student's program so , college and to suggest improve- lege publication. s was tabled until th . papers amateur sleuths imme- as to make manifest e mner ments in systems for next y· ear. next year, because of present un- d t . 1 · diately set ol,lt to solve it. unity of his e uca 1ona exper1- An agenda for the conference settled conditions. ence and its deep relevance to real The prll'b!em was in the form was drawn up by the Student 0·---· life.\ of a four-foot statue, and its Council at its last meettng As F h c The grant will ·permit .an ex- weightiness was attested to by many of the items as possible will · . r·os a· ffiP haustive study of such related everyone who tried to budge it be aired in the .four-hour meeting. · · · problems as what kinds of subject frO!ll its lofty perch on the copy Stude.nt problems to be discussed Men Need·ed matter will best serve the purpose desk, where it was found when include improvement of student of the integrating program. how· classes started after vacation. morale toward college and activi- the advisory system can !Je co- The first j9b at hand was to ties in general, possible inadequacy Applic!l-tions are now being ac- ordinated pvoperly, how eXisting identify it. SiJace its right arm of library hours, professionalism cepted for student leaders for the courses can be modified to con· was held .in a characteristic .po- in college activities, chapel worth 1951 Freshman camp, to be held tribute more directly to integra- sition across the chest, the first and value, and evaluation of ~J.t Pilot Knob on Lake G'eorge tion, and what examination. forms guess was \Napoleon.\ But fur~ courses and instructors. from Sunday, Sept. 9 to Thursday, are best to test the results of a ther investigation revealed that T A' p ·of L' tin Sept. 13. course of integration. 0 Ir r · lS gs the statue was the father of Issues on the agenda relating to The application forms, which Others on Committee our country, or rather it was a the administration include a clari- are available in the Student Activi- The committee working on the statue of the father of our fication to the student body con- ties Office, should be filled out and study includes Bennett, chairmall country. cerning college .policy on accelera- returned by Friday, April 20. The of ·the department of economics: As far as its or 1 g.m was con- tion and the n!'w Hershey testing .student leaders will be chosen by Professor Augustus H. Fox, de- cerned, the Sam Spades were program, revamping of the college the Freshman Camp committee, piutment of mathematics; Profes- faced with an even bigger prob~ Bulletin, and inc!Jlding professors' consisting of Professors Harold sor' .Alfred T. Bob!e, department !em. AU attempts to Jearn from names with courses wherever pos- Avery, William Bennett, Orin Far- of physics; Professor Frederick A. whence Washington came failed sible. :rell, - Theodove Goble, Clarence Kletnni, department of modern· until it was learned that Presi- Faculty problems to be discussed Goodheart, Gilbert Harlow; Fred- languages; Professor. Philip Stan- dent Davidson was spending are the elimination of hom• exams erick Klemm, Carl NiemeyE!r, Camp ley, department of philosophy: and many a sleepless night worry- during Greek Week for all stu- Director Wilford Ketz, and Stu- Professor Bertrand M. Walnger, · t · · d t 'bl Ii · ti 'dent ,....1'rector Dana Hanford. department of Engil:sh. mg over he whereabouts of his en s, poss1 e e mma on of sev- .u packyard-statue, which mysteri- era! hour exams on one day, and It is expecteJi that there wiil be ously disappeared more than a · unfairness of marking system. •no fees charged of the student week ago. Clever Gc;mcordy Also slated for debate are issues leaders, as in the past. Students crime experts connected the two relating to the college bookstore from all classes are eligible for cases. and to fraternities. these positions. Bernie Mann Senior Meeting The Senior class will hold a special meeting on Wednesday, April 11 at noon in Old Chapel, it was announced by class president Howard Simons. The purpose of the meeting will be to decide on a location for graduation ceremonies. Because the Plaza theater will n{)t be available for the entire !:)<!remonies, the class is faced with the alternatives of holding graduation in Memorial Chapel Sunday afternoon, June 10, or at the Plaza in the morning, which would necessitate placing Baccalaureate services on a previous Sunciay. Legislators Clean Slate So, Pl'exy, if you're worried about \Prexy\ G-eorge, he's safe At its meeting last Tuesday., and sound in o'Ur offiCE!, almost Superior St.udents to Be Deferred night, the Stuaent Council, 'in the' as good as he was back in l780. last regularly scheduled session,' If you want him back, you may cleared. several important ai'tic1es send the .strong.oarm boys after In an executive order issued last~·~---------------;---------------- of business including the agenda him. He won't fit in campus Saturday, President Truman ap~· Union has ·been designated as for t]J.is Sunday's Tippecanoe Con- mail.l But we'll miss his strong, proved draft deferment for college a testlng center for the national Philosophy, recently returned from :femnce, Meritorious Service awards unbending personality. students of superior scholastic · aptitude tests, the first of wliich a Washington conference on the to eligible seniors, and the appoint- standing or those who achieve a will be- given on May. 26. Since draft situation as it afects colleges, ment of a Freshman Orientation -------~------~·. _ suffiCiently high score on a na- had several pertinent comments tp .c· ornml'ttee. tiona! apti.tud. e test to be given in the college bas not as yet de- .make on the topic. First,. Profes- M k . cided the method. they will use L b d tl · t President Gerald Parker an- . . oun· teba' n s En· d May or Ju!le. in detenhlning class standing, sor . il,rra ee stresse ·le pom nounced a special meeting for dis- · . ' · . · . · , · · · The order, amending the former students who estimate ·they that this action is only temporary. cussion of the finaings art.d recom- 'H·I·g·h· T• O. ·r' CaSti•D. g Selective s e i· vice regulations, are ln the upper half, two- The present Selective Service Law mendations of the constitutional authorizes Major General Lewis B. thirds, or three-fourths of theii' · expires as o£ June 30, this year, committee n,ext Tuesday night. In. Hershey, Selective Service Director, Freshman, Sophomore, ·or Jun- · and the presidential order was is• a ·report of ·the general activities Casting for Hi'gh Tor, the· to set .the :acceptab.le sc.ores on the Ia 'sued in accordance with that law. ior c sses, l'espe'ctively, may de- · com•mittee, it was brought out that Mo!lntebanks filial prod!lction for tests anci declar th iilvel of college cide to put off taking the test Whether or not any new acbon there will be an issue· of the Idol this year, has been. completed .. achievement that may qualify a until their fi:rta.l standings are taken on Selective Service will. in- p.ublished very shottly, with an- Sherwood Bailey and Anne Marie c·onege student's activity as \neces-' klmwn. elude a proviso for the exercising other possible in the near future. Smith have been cast in the leac:i sary to the ·maintenance of the of l:.he \President's discretion\ re- 'I'be committee recommended that parts with David H<trvey and national h*lth, salety, or interest.\ planning to enter -college next fall mains to be seen. the Idol adopt its own constitu- Ralph Jonas as the featured Test in May or june are not included as eligible. The Senate plan proposes to set tion. players. Students e!igibfe to take the apti- The Tests will be administered. up a Commission of Civil E(luca- ':to Maintain PR Conunlttee Others in the cast in()iude Rob- tude tests, to be given May 26, by the Educationai Testing Service tion that will defer about 75,000 it was decided. that the Council ert O'Malley, Donald R. Larson, june· 16, and Juii~. 30 in various of Princeton, New Jersey, A<)cord- students in basic sciences, medicine maintain a three-man public re~ William A.. Hass, David w. Palmer, centers throughout the natioi!, in• lng to General Hershey, printed and research after a perio4 of lations committee, with the secre- , Thomas E. Axelson, William :R. Clude at present, only, those stu- ·instructions and application blanks basic training. The House plan, tary ex\off!cio to keep the st11dent Winchester, Elliot Loshak, J;!JicM.rd dents now in coilege, wl);p expect will be available at about 4,000 however, is still in cox\:!roittee. bocl.'Y informed of Council action:. s. Klotz, Robert w. Engles, I'>ana to continue their coll!lg.e wl:$k, and draft boards fro):n April 12. Professor Larrabee suggested that Th'e Council approved the ap- B, Hanford, David Walrath, Fred- college seniors .and others Pl~nning Returns from Conference the finai plan would probably be pointtnent of Paul Woods to chair- erick ·s. Conklin and :Ponald W. to enter graduate schools. Prel'{~nt Professor Harold .A. Larrabee, a compromise bill, and that the (Oontinue·d on Page 3> 'H:arvey; high school seniors and othe'ts Chairman of the Dep;u-tment of <Continued on Page 4) vocalizations, to make what the prom committee has promised to be one of the most pleasant and danceable spring formals in many years. Green, an RCA-Victor recording artist, has appeared at such swank locations as the Bowman Room of the Biltmore in New York City, and the Oval Room of the Copley Plaza Hotel in Boston. The one- time Lawyer has also madB an ap· pearance at the Strand Theatre in New York City, as well as ·many of the top night spots in Phila- delphia and Pittsburgh and the Bar Barbor Club in Bar Harbor, Maine. One of the Victor \De- signed for Dancing\ record al- bums, all of which are well known on campus, features Green's band playing the music of Vincent Youmans. \YankeE' Doodle\ Theme .. Playing under the theme-song, Yankee Doodle Band,\ Bernie Mapn's orchestra is designed to supply smooth music that is good for dancing and to give the cus- tomer a colorful, entertaining show ilS well. While playing at the Roosevelt Hotel in Xew York City, Mann ha,; reco1 ded exclusively for Tower Records, pressing \I'll See You In My Dreams,\ \September In The Rain,'' \Just One Of Those Things,\ and \When You're Smil- ing.\ For what will be the last prom for many Union men, the com- mitt~e, headed by Leslie Couch, Is makmg plans for a weekend that will be truly reflective of its \Without Restraint\ theme. The weekend will get underway Friday afternoon with a baseball game against Stevens Tech and a tennis match with Middlebury. Scheduled for Saturday afternoon are a track meet with Hartwick and a lacrosse game with Hamil- ton. Fraternities will have open houses and fun galore on Saturday night. All classes will be suspended Saturday morning. 01--- Elections Set Next Week Elections for class officers and Student Council representatives will be held next week in Silliman HalL Nominating petitions for these offices must be in the stu- dent activities office by 4:30 :M;on- day afternoon. Presidents, vice-presid·ents, sec- retaries and treasurers of next yl'lar's sophomore, junior and sen- for classes will be elected on Tues- da.y afternoon, with the polis re- maining open from noon until 5 p.m. Five Student Council representa- tives from each class will be select- ed in balloting on Thursday and Friday afternoons from noon until 5 p.m. each day. Voting machines will be used for the Council elec- tions. Petitions of candidates must con- tain signatures of 15 classmates. Anyone who wishes to be nomi- nated for both class officer and Student Council r!lpresentative must submit two separate petitions. Quazy Quote Everything enjoyable in life is either illegai, .immoral, or fattening. -Ale..'!:artder Woicott

2 <ltnurnr Member Aseoclated Col- legiate Press and distl'i- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Repre~entatlve: Na.. tiona! Advertising Service, Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave .. N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the sehool year. :llldltorlal O!tlce, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription lOc a copy: $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. SENIOR BOARD JAY N. COHN '52 ...................................... Editor-in-Chief DCIN M. CREGIER '51 ................................ Associate Editor MARTIN S'IEGEL '51 ............... , ................ Associate Editor DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 •..•....•..•....•...•.••.• Managing Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR '52 •••.......••.•.....•....•....•• News Editor JEROME GARTNER '52 ................................... Page Editor MARVIN L. KOH;:\1' '63 ................................... Page Ed! tor JOHN J. CASSIDY '53 .................................. Sports Ed!tor ROBERT C. SMITH '52 ................................ Feature Ed1tor ALAN K. RADACK '52 •.....••.•..............•.... Business Manager ROBERT B. GRINDLEY 'M ......••.......•...... ,s;irculation Manager JUNIOR BOARD ARTHUR M. ST0CKJ\1A:'o! '52 .............................. Copy Editor MONROE SILVER.J.Y.IAN '52 ........•..•.••.• Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE W. U!:VINE '53 .........•....•..•...••. Eocchange Editor JOSEPH K. HANDLER '52 .........•••.•. Assistant Business Manager LF:O KUPPER~CHMID '52 . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . A~sistant BusinesR Manager GEORGE F. REDI!'<GTON '52 .......... Assistant C~rculation !'.Ianager FEA'l'URE STAFF Thomas Donlon, Peter F;~fe, Alfred Kingon, Myron Komar, John Moses. REPO'RTERS Irwin Barg, Phillip Beuth, James Carmichael, Alfred Goldberge~. Mar~in Gordon Herbert Hiller Wolcott Hubbell, Michael Kahn, Lew1s Klem, Jerome' Klein, Wllliam 'Mohrmann, Martin Portnoy, David Smith, Her- bert Spira, Daniel V\.\einer. PHOTOGRAPHY STAFI•' Alan Forman, John Stebbins, Frank Skutsch. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, James DeSovbo, Charles Little, Gerald Roberts, Daniel Siesel, Robert Silverman, George Wrubel. CIRCULA'l'ION STAFF Robert Strand Horace Van voast, George Putman, Curtis Bates, David Steffanhagen,' Culver Hayes, J. Lowell Davis, William Winchester, Joseph Martin, Robert Seydel. Democracy in Action StudeE.ts, faculty members and administrative repr~~ sentatives will gather Sunday afternoon for the now tradi- tional \Tippecanoe\ talk-fest, and if we can judge by past results, it will be a resounding success. . Although the fact that the conference will be held this year in the confines of the Hale House Lounge rathel\ than the rustic Tippecanoe Yl\ICA Cabin may detract somewhat from the \atmosphere\ of the meeting, it should in no way hinder the informal discussions which have resulted in the past in such fine projects as the Dutchmen:s Ra~hskeller. The continuation of these conferences, m wh1ch students sit down and talk over problems on an equal footing with the faculty and administration, is a further step on the part of Union to demonstrate its democratic principles. Its success is fine proof that offering the students a voice in college af- fairs will not produce the dire circumstances many less pro- gressive colleges evidently foresee. Why not carry over Sunday's attitude of close student- faculty association to campus relations during the rest of the year as well? Idle Idol Our sister publication the Idol, long idle, was in labor this week and was expected to give birth to a bouncing b3:by magazine by Monday, after one of the longest gestation periods in history-11 months. Let us hope that the new editor, to be appointed at the next meeting of the Publications Board, will be able to gather a virile staff capable of reproducing more often and more regularly next year. After all, the Concordiensis does not want a sterile sister. Out of the Past It's always nice to look back on the Union that was, but how many more years must we be confronted with the Sep- tember, 1949, student list on the Old Cha;pel bulletin board? Time stands still at Union! A Promise Fulfilled We promised we would mention Monday's farcical noon debacle. It hardly rates any space at all. Let the thoughts of the matter bother the consciences of those who had a part in planning it. On College Journalists A scourge of publications \bannings\ has hit college campuses throughout the country in the past several months, and it has got us to wondering. There seems to be no excuse for such actions, yet it is hard to place the blame properly. Most certainly both parties-student editors and ad- ministration-are to blame when a campus paper or maga- zine is banned. And the evil effects of the announcement of such a banning take form in loss of college prestige, stu- dent spite and faculty embarassment. A college administration must never set itself up as a censor of journalistic endeavors on a campus, for the students must be given a free voice to proclaim their ideas and gripes. But budding college journalists often go too far under the guise of humor and find that the last joke is \on them.\ Often . the bannings are the result of inconsistent be- havior on the part of college officials, who let publications go on undeterred, then suddenly say they have gone too far. Expelling students from schdol because they write lewd humor 1 when they have been doing the same thing for years, only creates animosities. A banning is poor publicity for any college. In order to solve the problem, 0fficials must take a stand on the \humor\ issue at their college-either allow it or not. And students must come to realize that there are limits of \goad taste.\ Exercise Your Right Students will go to the polls next week to elect class of- ficers and student council representatives for the next year .. We hope they go en n1.asse. Student government has been in the limelight during the past few months. The campus was perhaps awakened from. its apathetic slumber. Now comes the test to see if it has remained a>lert and interested, or has drifted back to sleep. We plea for a record vote on election day. Every 'Stu- dent must cast his ballot if we are to have reptesentative government at Union. · Book Shelf \THE THIRTEEN CLOCKS\- By JAMES THURBER Reviewed by Prof. Henry Swanker I wish I could say to a tired world, that Mr. Thurber in the \Thirteen Clocks\ offers a haven of rest equivalent in imaginative magnitude, mellow good feeling and just plain niceness to his former opus, in this guise entitled \The White Deer.\ Especially, do I wish I could offer this escape hatch to the Pledges in Inferno who are being exposed to their Golgatha after a Gethsemane of seven months of the vicissitudes of college life. Mr. Thurber in his introductory preface i!!dicates he intended to offer us a pleasant lacuna in this hectic existence. For some reason, it did not quite come off. At least, it has none of the finesse of \The White Deer.\ In the \Deer\ Mr. Thurber grins happily through, yea, even smiles through all the standard cliches of the fairy tale to leave the reader with a sense of a few minutes res- pite from the daily maelstrom. The tale becomes one of life's pleasant memories. In his later effort, Thur- ber seems to leer or sneer, in a Charles Addams· sort of way through the same cliches and the reader goes down for the third time gasping \There is no retreat, no refuge!\ In antithesis, my good friend Mr. Elwood P. Dowd of Mary Chase's play \Harvey\ says something to the effect that he has wrestled with reality for 35 years and he felt he was finally winning out. I fear Thurber lost his match. Of course, Elwood had Harvey to assist him. However, I can't help but feel El- wood Will never fall by the wayside of cynicism. Another of Dowd's statements might cast light on the subject. He said that he had tried being smart in this world and he had tried being pleasant and be preferred pleasantness. I do not believe Mr. Thurber is trying te be smart, but the unpleas- ciaily evident in his characters. In antness of his new effort is espe- \The White Deer,\ the ogres, witches, wicked things or what have you did not have realistic faults. Their wickedness had an out of this world appearance of somewhat justified distemper. In \The Clocks\ the wicked are too real. They are petty, they are nasty, they ave in the words of my favor- ite current blonde, Judy Holliday, \11ot couth.\ As a final failure, Thurber fails the tradition by not permanently eliminating the dragons, human and other, at the end. Although the Prince weds the Princess, and the evH King is dragged off by a monster, ene feels the latter exit may be evil and wickedness sneak- ing of hand in hand behind an iron curtain. There they may breed what Edgar Allen Poe calls \a gray liquid putrescence\ of greater, down to earth r.astiness. Thurber has not reached the man into cockroach or the penal colony infernal machine stage, but, please air, turn back. In spite of all I recommend \The Thirteen Clocks\ as a modern fairy tale. I shall not ,purchase the book for my own collection as I did \The White :beer.\ On the other hand, I shall not stoop to the low sophomoric trick of steal- ing the library copy. For Your Information Saturday, April 7-Union College Choir, Knox School, Cooperstown. Sunday, April 8-Sunday service, preacher, Tutor asst. Edward L. Long, Dept. of Christian Ethics, Union Theological Seminary, New York City, MC, noon; Tip- pecanoe conference, Hale House, 2 p.m. Monday, April 9-FRATERNITY INITATION WEEK; Daily as- sembly, speaker, Mr. Henry Her- man of New York City, Director of the Encampment for Citizen- ship, MC, noon. Tuesday, April 10-Daily assembly, speaker, Prof. Bertrand Wainger (first in series) on \Sinclair Lewis,\ MC, noon; Student elec- tions, Silliman ·Hall, noon until 5 p.m.; Union College Gleee Club and Schenectady Woman's Chorus, MC, 8:15 p.m. No charge; Motion Picture, \Sym- phony Pastorale,\ Lincoln Thea- ter, 7 p.m., 50 cents. (Arranged by g1•oup of Union Professors.) Wf:'dnesday, April 11-Episcopal Eucharist service, MC, 7 a.m.; Senior class meeting, OC, noon; AIEE <Schenectady Chapter), EE-2, 8 p.m. Motion Picture, \Symphony Pastorale,\ Lincoln Theater, 7 p;m., 50 cents. <Ar- ranged by group of Union Professors.) Thursday, April 12-Daily assem- bly, speaker, Prof. • Bertrand Wainger <second in series) on \Sinclair Lewis,\ MC, noon; Stu- dent elections, Silliman Hall, noon Student elections, Silliman Hall, noon until 5 p.m.; Placement dis- cussion, OC, 4:30 p.m. W. T. Grant & Co. Friday, April 13~Daily assembly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmars4 MC, noon. Student elections, Silliman Hall, noon until 5 p.m. ---o•--~ Many Chemists The number of Union College graduates who further their edu- cation in Chemistry at grad1;1ate schools throughout the country ranks high according to an article in the \Journal of Chemical Edu- cation.\ Union is one of the 22 liberal art colleges who lead ih the production of future graduate students in chemistry. ---0,--- All Premeds to Meet There will .be a:n important meet- ing of all the premedical students except those accepted to medical college on April 9th at 4:30 P.M. in room 205 of the Biology Da:boratorw. Pre-Registration Students who do not expect to return in the fall, with the excep- tion of those who are graduating, should report to the Registrar's Office at once. Students who wish to change their curricul<t for the fall semes- ter should see Dean Huntley at once. Schedules for the following stu- dents will be made in the Regis- trar's Office and studer. ts need not report unless called: All Civil and Electrical Engineers (except present Term 6 CE) Present Term 2 Physics Majors Present Term 2 BS in Chemists All other students should report for preparation of schedules to their advisers as follows: Present Sophomores and Juniors- between Wednesday, April 25, and Friday, May 4. Present Freshmen---<between Mon- day, May 7, and Friday, May 11. Any student failing to comply with this regulation will not be as- sured of a place in the College for the next academic year. The program of courses will be sent to the fraternities and dormi- tories during the first part of the week of April 16; it wil also be available at the Library and Reg- istrar's Office at that time. To avoid disappointment, due to over-election in various courses, it is important that students report to their advisers promptly. Sununer SessiQn Students planning to attend the Summer Session will make out their summer schedules at the same time that they report to their advisers for making their fall schedules. Any technical student who i' irregular and plans to attend Sum- mer School should report to his adviser. ---0•--- ''Letter\ Contest James Carmichael 11as been awarded fir~t prize in the monthly Letter to the Editor contest. He received the award for his letter in the issue of March 6, which was probably the longest communi- cation every published by the Con- cordiensis. · He will receive a carton of Chest~rfield cigarettes, the plrze that. goes each month to the author of, the letter that, in the opinion of the editors, best reveals an item of campus interest. FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 195,1 Heidelberg University. Has Student Freedom By Robet·t Breen Ed. N~te-'l'lle following article wns written for t!Jf Concordiensls by Robert Breen '4D, who Is. si•endlng· tile year In U:et·many .as !!Older of tile fellowsll.ip offered nnnualiy by tlto Germanistle Society of Amerl~a, .au·· minlstol'e<l ·by the Institute of lntornational Eduoatlou. The winter semester at Heidelberg University ended on February 28. It has been an interesting and instructive four- months' period in which time I've worked untrammeled and have enjoyed the usufructs of the academic freedom of a German university. Most European universities are~'--------------­ graduate schools and thEl· student side his own faculty. To overcome must therefore work independently. this unfortunate trend towards There have been no assigned text- specialized education, the univer;ity books or quizzes th·roughout the has recently established a \dies semester's work and there is no force which obliges 0ne to attend academicus,\ when the day's usual lectures al'e suspended. A certain class or the special lectures given on \dies a.cademicus.\ It is diffi~ theme is selected, and professors from all faculties present a series cult td' compare the European and ·of lectures or ·\Rihgvorlesungeri\ American university systems; and . instead of trying -to determine which are theological, legal, med- which is tnore desirable, I'd like ical and philosophical ·interpreta- tions of the .theme of the day. merely te note my experiences at Besides the various academic Heidelber-g. f Unlike the university system in unctions of the University there the U.S. no schedule of courses are sundry extra-curricular activi- are determined in advance at Hei- ties, especially of a political nature, delberg. Between Nov. 2 and Dec. 5 to which all the student body is in- the student may visit any number vited. During the ·past three months a number .of meetings have of lectures he pleases. During this been held after classes, to discuss period one can g.et an idea of a one of the most important ques- particular .professoi\s presentation and delivery of his subject. By tions facing Western Germany to- Dec. 5, the time when one is day - remilitarization. Recently obliged to record his courses and \ASTA\ C\Allgemeiner Studenten- pay the tuition and lecture fees, ausschuss\) the student council of the student knows ·precisely which the University, prepared question- courses are most desirable for his nairas on this subject and organ- semester's work. There is no prob- ized a poll. However, \AST.k'' made lem of dropping a course which the following stipulation: ·at ieast often results from the ·shortsighted 2 1 3 of the student body would have policy of making out pre-arranged to vote if the results of the poll schedules• were to be made known. That Iam enrolled in the \philoso- meant that about 2,500 students or phische Fakultaet\ (phil. Fak.) or more would have to express their division of philosophy which cov- sentiments either for or against ers a wide field of study. It cor- the rearmament of the German responds to a combination of the Federal Republic. Since only about humanities and social studies de- 1,000 students voted, no results partments .of most American lib- were published. Most were prob-- eral arts colleges. At Heiqelberg ably against it; but it is certain the phil. Fa){:. is divided into the that the majority of students were following branches of study: phi- against the entire election itself. losophy and psychology, philology, On the sidewalks and streets near history, archaeology and the his- the University one could see such tory of art, musicology, geography, statements as \Studieren nicht sociology an!;l economics, ahd po- marschiere)l\ and \Soldat ohne litical science which is a subdivi- uns\ written out. It is a difficult sian of the sociology and economics problem, almost a dilemma, for section. each alternative regarding remili- In the past most German uni- tarization seems dangerous; varsities strove to turn out the American students at Heidelberg \universal man.\ This was accom- live on the German economy. It plished by :permitting the students would be a considerable saving if to visit lectures of all the depart,.. we had PX privileges like the occu- ments or faculties for a semester pation force, especially to those or two. Today the average stu- who smoke and are fond of coffee. dent, who has spent some years in Yet, we have one privilege which the armed forces, does not have is of a cultural nature. Students the time or money to study out- can obtain tickets for concerts, the BO.B-BlNG ALONG THE AIRWAVES WITH BOB: I hear you're going in the Dog Food business, Bing. BING: Yep .•• we're going to make ARF ••• You know ARF's the only Dog Food your dog can ask for by. name. ;:; * * JACI!.: KIRKWOOD: I'd like to show you a piciUI'B of my Dad .•• Old Goniff Kirkwood. B()B: Very ·interesting ... why is he sitting in the electric chair holding a highball in his hand? KIRKWOOD: Simple ... boy ••• tltat was the day he was chosen \Man of Extinction.\ * * BOB: Bing ... you've been playing teacher's pet with our sponsor long enough. Imagine wearing shorts made out of Chesterfield wrappers! BING: Not so fast, Bob ... How do you explain making your musicians lie on the lawn so their bodies spell out \They Satisfy.\ * * \' BOB: So you won't go out with •me to- night ... WeU, you'll be sorry ... I'll just call up Mauna Loa ..• Miss Hawaii VOlt knom.; .Let's see, the nu?Jtber is ... MARILYN MAXWELL: But Bob; Mauna Loa. is a Volcano/ BOB: l'l! get that Crosby .• . I gave him $5/or that telephone m1mber ••• He said it was the hottest thing in the Islands! * $ \' BING: Me a penny pincher? Look Sc1'ooge ••• I happen to know you line the insides of your trousers with money. nOB: That's a great big lie, '1\IN.G: Don't tell me ... I've seen you 'n the locker room ••• and the flap on •our underwear has a serial number. * $ * 'EGGY LEE: ~Morniit' stmnge1· ... 1· olcome .to the Gophor Bolo Hotel. UNG: Thanks Ma'am. My name'tt ·•Ac?' Crosby .••• Hrwe you got a vacant ·oom here at t'h:e Gopher Hole? PEGGY: Yes Sir ••• and bolie'l!e me it's it pleaBU1'8 to ha'lle an \Ace\ in the Tfole. theater and opera in Heidelberg and near-by cities at very low prices. Since the quality and num- ber of concerts and theatrical and operatic presentations are extraor- dinary for such relatively small cities as Heidelberg, Mannheim and Karlsruhe, this is an· excellent advantage. I've met some nice students at Heidelberg and have enjoyed at- tending a few of the social func- tions sponsored by the University. I was particularly happy to meet Hans Held who is in one of my classes. We often take luncheon together at the \Mensa Academica,\ the University cafeteria, where the food is esculent and abundant. Un- fortunately Hans, who studied at Union College d1.1ring the academic year 1949-50, has been reecntly hos- pitalized _and I have not seen him for the past three weeks. For those interested in beer, song and \Bemuetlichkeit which in- cludes myself, there are a number of fine student taverns which I've found worthwhile visiting. I've become acquainted with more Ger- man students at these thirst em- poriums than at the University where relations among students are quite formal and where it Is in general difficult to become well acquainted wtth other students in the lecture halls or in the seminars. I recently spoke about student relations between Germans · and Americans at one of the meetings of the \Publizistisches Seminar.\ The reaction of the audience was not what I had eX·pectecl; for most agreed with th!;l contents of the theme, \Deutschland und die Amer- ikaner,\ and there were only one or tw8 ·cries of protest from the 50 or 60 member audience. I am con- tinually thinking about this theme and intend to write and say more about it in the future. The Heidelberg and student life that Wilhelm Meyer-Foerster wrote a~JOut at the turn of the century in h1s novel, Karl Heinrich, have changed. After two World Wars not only the political and social conditions of Germany, but also the University life have been great- ly affected. Today in occupied Germany there are no ..student princes at the universities. The majority of students at Heidelberg hav:e . neither the money, time or desire to· recreate past traditions. FR:I p F v th• inl ba m• or si• ar e:ll sl: al fr oJ tl Cl r! P· tl t t b a i t a

I 1951 by of tile .lul- ded on four- and of a towards a \dies usual certain a series med- ay. there activi- nature, is in- t three have discuss ques- to- Recently of d organ- made at ieast have the poll That or their against German about results prob- certain nts were itself. near see such nicht ohne difficult for remili- eidelberg It if occu- to those coffee. which Students the eidelberg low num- and extraor- small excellent at joyed at- func- to meet e of my luncheon the Un- at has- him eer, song hich in- number I've I've Ger- em- students ere it Is well in stl,ldent and meetings was for most of the Amer- one thE! 50 am con- is theme more life wrote in h, have Wars social but also great- occupied .student The time or 3 FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1951 Pledges Set For Initiation Week Rig.ors_ To Perform Tuesday ROTC Drills, ·.co Honored DriveStarted for Organ Improvements Robert Griswold and Frederick:<l•~-------------~­ Conklin, with the support of the town_ are planning to make sub- stantial contributions to supple- ment the student contributions. With the commands, \Flights Union College choir, have an- att-tensh-un,\ the Air Force nounced plans for the collection of Once more spring has come to. the Union College campus, bring- ing forth green buds, balmy skies, baseball gloves and-anxious fresh- men. For with spring, Hell Week or Greek Week (depends oil. which side of the fence you're on) has · marched out in style last Monday a fund of approximately $1,000 to The fund has the endorsement afternoon in cold, da.mp, and win- improve the organ in Memorial of the Student Council and student tery weather. All except the new Chapel. The improvement Is In contributions will be accepted at reserves were resplendent ip. their honor of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's the student activities office. unif_orms as they paraded about. 25 years of service to the college . T · - he Improvements for the organ will include a \harp\ stop, as well Bailey Hall and the gym, snapping and the community . to the comma-nds of the corps At last report the fund co;tained · as other additions within the Umit leaders. $300. Of this amount $225 repre- of the fund established-. The pres- The new recruits started off sents a carry-over from a previous ent organ is a three-manual Casa- slowly, but they soon learned the campaign, while the remaining $75 vant, purchased by the college in fundamentals of drilling under the has been collected in the current 1925 at a cost of approximately tutelage of Master Sergeant Miller, drive. A number of civic clubs in· $25,000. arrived. Beginni'ng on Monday one may expect to see students carrying od:lft shaped pieces of hewn timiber about with them, varying ih s~ze · from a few inche,s to the length of a young log. Rumor has it that . these gentlemen are not frustrated mp:p§nters in search of a job, but rather pledges, and that the lum• per has other applications than · instructor in Air Science. The ROTC group is scheduled to give 1---~------------~~--------------- . a demonstration for parents' weelt- th;tt of building. Endured Since 193!1 ;Union Glee Club to Appear Irt Joint .Concert Tuesday The Union College Glee Club will appear in its fitst local concert of the spring season on Tuesday, AprillO at 8:15 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. The program will be shared with the Schenectady Women's chorus. To Perform Bach Cantata end April. 22 and the cadets must be ready at that time. Williams Honored The Air Force ROTC has re- ceived word that Cadet Major Henry N. Williams, student com- . mandiilg officer of the group at Union, has been accepted for ap- . pointmer.t in the · regular Air Force. Williams, a civil engineering stu- dent, received recegnitjon as the outstanding junior in the Union College unit. He has been desig- nated \a distinguished military stude:r;tt,\ an honor reserved for the upper third of the class, and is now considering the possibility of maki;tg the Air Force his career .. Hell Week as an officially sanc- tioned period has been in opera- tion at Union since 1934. It's course has · n.ot been untroubled though, and .from time to time it has come in for its share of criticism by the Stud·ent Council, the I.F.C., and t~e Concordy itself. Even the redoubtable Dr. Clare Graves has been · he~rd to murmur something B:il~~t. \t}>pse-sadists:\ But Hell Week has endured, and the acid test, i.e., a::; to whetb,er, just aftel,' the war, the returning. veterans p • A d d 'C {\ TV S • would s~bmit gracefully to such . ··rJzes ·. war e The program for this concert will . 0 . ege . erJeS shenanigans, ·has been .passed. include sacred and _secular music, Since their acoep1;an.ce of it there In AlEE Contest both classic and modem, and will Begins Thursday ---------------~-------------~ has been little opposition. feature Bach's. Cantata Number 4, ~erb,aps one reason for the !<1-c~ Union CoUege will mall:e its of cQntr()Ver:;;y on this issue has. \ Bela P. Paine won first prize of \Christ Lay in Todesbanden,\ debute on television on Thursday, beeP, th(l practice in ree<;mt years $10 and Francis B. Fassnacht and which will be sung in Schenectady . April 12, at 10:30 P.M. A half- of p.aying pledges qo ~ la1;ge share ·Michael p. Forte combined to win for the first time, according to Mr. hour program over WRGB will of col!structive work, i,n t)le various a second prize certificate in the· :Robert Campbell who is the direc- serve as a test for a regular series how>el:l, rather than spending the • beginning next fall. Harold Van entire time in a ja.ck-knife position.. annual student- prize paper com- tor of both vocal groups. de Car, director of Public Rela- A cllec:li made yesterc:lay on those • petition of the American Institute The glee club, comprised of tions, will produce and write the fratervzlities conducting a. Hell of Electrical Engineers. These forty-three r;nen, wi!I be presenting script for the program, with the Wet?lt next week V!lrified the fact t its third concert of the spring sea- assistance of Prof. Donald S. that generally cleaning, painting, ·students will represent Union a son, having previously appeared in Jones. and building would be more prev!!-- the District One Convention to be Binghamton and in Salem, New The test program on April 12 lent than the more violent forms held on May 4 at Syracuse. Yoi'~. Soloists for the Glee Club will consist of a demonstration in of. hazing. The members of the Schenec- are Robert Murray and Frederick modern physics by Professor Har- ---o•--- Conklin. old E. Way, head of Union's tady section of the ,AlEE who h · d tm t Th d stration will appear to take place · J 'udged last Tuesday's competJ'ti'on The Schenectady Women's chorus,. P ysJCs. epar en · e · emon- · UCCA Arranges Series of Worships . k' d t a non-profit organization of 60 in a college lecture room and will were C. C; Hers m , secre ary; local women, will be making its - d · h i d be seen as through the eyes of a L. T. Ra er, V!Ce-c a rman, an second appearance with the Union student. :Or. F. W. Grover, professor emeri- · Glee Club. Both groups apeared. tus of electrieal engineering at together for a concert on Dec. 1 The Union College Christian As- sociation has begun a n:ew volun- tary worship series on \Christian- ity in Daily Life\ to be held each WedJ;J.esQ.ay noon from 12::00 to 12:20 in Silliman Hall. In choosing the !Speaker~ for the Wednesday meetings an attempt was· made to invite Io.cal miniiilters representing the various Protestant denomina- tions. ·which W(\.S very well received. WRUC Selects Officers for Year Union College. Some of the other outstanding works that will be featt.red in the program of April 10 are: \Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee\ by Bach, Handel's \Thanks Be to Thee,\ Debusy's \The Blessed pa- mozel-,\ \The Rangers, Story\ by Tierney, and \Kansas City,\ \If I Loved You,\ and \There Is Nothin' Like a Dame,\ by Richard Rogers. David Platt was reelected man- ager of student radio station WRUC at a general election held this week. This week the Rev. Dr· Francis W. Trimmer, .pastdr of the Em, manuel Baptist Church, spoke on the topic \The Living Christ.\ The student leader at the service was Sam Newcomer. Next week the Rev. Chl,'istie Wilson, assistant minister of the First Presbyterian Church, will speak on \Know God's Will.\ This marks the second contest of s,tudent papers entered by Union electrical engineering students. On March 29, at a combined meeting of the Union and R.P.I. branches of the A.I.E.E. and the American Society of Civil Engineers, Jl,odney Gertner received third prize of ten doll~rs for his paper entitled, \Proctor Consolidated Test.\ Tickets are free to faculty, stu- Other station' officers named are John Moses, program director; Donald Harper, publicity director;· Frederick Sears, technical direc- tor; and Max P. Dreyfuss, business manager. · dents and staff. ---0 Four Win Medical, Dent Scholarships Lectures to Come On April 18 Rev. Robert S. Four Union College students Hoagland, pastor .of the All Soul's have been awarded $3,000 New Vtlitarian Church will address the York State scholarships for pro- group on the topic \Love One An- fessional study in medicine and other.\ \Christian Witness\ will dentistry. be discussed on April 215 by the Each of these scholarships en- Rev. Bertr;;~m deHeus Atwood of titles the holder to $750 a year the :First Reformeq Church. while attending an approved mad- Some other speakers who have ical or dental coi:rege in New QYork been invited are Rev. A. .K. Blaze State .for a period net tb exceed of the Pilgrim Congregational four years of professional study. Qhurch, Rev. Darwin Kirby Jr. of These scholarships were made St- George's Episcopal Church, available for the first time by ac- Re:v. Pr. J. Edward· Carothers of . tion of the 1949 State Legislature. the First Methodist ·Church, and The awards are based upon the Rev, Rerbert Guth of the Bellevue results of a coiT petitive examina- Refm;med Church.\ tion held Feb. 10 in various cen- The Bible study group will con-· . ters throughout the Stale, tinue to meet at the home of Prof. Warren Taylor each Tuesday eve- The win,ners Of the profcssiona' ning at 7:30. The topics studied scholarships at Union are Paul A. 'will correspond to those of the Danziger, a member of the class of worship series. Prof. and Mrs. 1951 and a pre-dental student; ·Taylor have invited t~ members Leonard S. Levine a member of the of the Christian Association to a class of 1952 ar d a pre-medical !JUpper meeting at their home on student; David S. Platt, a member Tuesday, April 25. of the class of 1952 and a pre· medical student, and Thomas A. Student Council White, a member of the class of 1951 and a pre-dental student. ---0•--- (Continued from Pag.e 1) manship of the Freshman Orienta- Long, RPI Grad, tion Committee, with the commit- tee consisting of Davis Griffith ·To Preach Sunday David Walrath, ai)d Robert Mor~ .. gan. Woods was granted permis- ~ion to enlarge his committee in any way necessary to facilitate ~andling of orientation. In an earlier joint session with the Board of Managers, six eighth- term Seniors were chosen for ;Meritorious Service awards from ~ list of about twenty eligible men, . ';I'he awards will be presented on Prize Day. In its last bit of business, the Council spent some time deciding on an agenda for the Tippecan.oe ~onference. After much disc'us- :;~,ion, an agenda of fourteen points · was drawn up. · Members a:bsent from the meet- tug without excuses were William l\:tQr~i.S. !!.A~ R,Qb.ert I:!J,a.i,t~l;J,ter, The Rev, Edward L. Long Jr. will be the speaker at fue regular service of worship Sunday at 11 a.m. in the Urion College Memorial •·Chapel. · Now working toward the degree of aoctor of philosophy of religion and ethics, Rev. Long is a gradu- ate of Rensselaer Polytechnic In. stitute, witha bachelor of civil en- gineering degree. He received his bachelor of divinity degree from·· Union Theological Seminary. · Rev. Long is the author of two books and has contributed to sev. era! maga.Zines, among them \The Puipit Dig'est,\ 'Christianity and Crisis,\ and \Christianity and Soci.et:~r·• Stop In During NATIONAL- ARROW WEEK For Your Arrow Shirts and Ties Pur Arrow se\ect1ons are at their peak! See white, striped and solid color shirts in campus preferred Arrow collar styles. Comfortable, good looking Arrow sports shirts in your fa· Arrow Shh·ts .. · .. $3.95 up v. orite fabrics and_colors. T'e $1 · . Is ............... up, And our brilliant selec· H tion of colorful, wrinkle· · andkerchiefs · · · · · 3 5¢ UP, resistant Arrow ties in Sports Shirts · · · · $3.95 u:e the newest, smartest pai- Shorts. · · · . · .... $1.45 UP, terns. Comfortable Athletic Shirts ....• $1 up An:ow underwear, too. T Shirt $1 25 ' C • s ........ · • up ome in soon! · . NUSBAUM'S 44 7-451 STATE \'STREET '------\\' fOR ARROW UNiVIli.SilY 5i'YUS ------..1 Starting April 9th ..• NATIONAL ARROW WEEI( celebrating Arrow's 100 Years of style leadership 1951 See your' Arrow dealer;s fine new Spring selections 'during National Arrow Week~ UNDERWEAR • JiANDIQiRCHIEFS _... $PORTS SHIRTS

4 i=RIOAY, . .APltiL 6, 19$·f Base~all, Trackmen Rounding Into Frosh, Veterans Vie Union's Best In Distance Events \Cindermen'S Chances For Starting Positions Are Good, Says Ketz Coach Art Lawrence and his men are eagerly awaiting a break in the weather to try out their spikes on the diamond.· As usually happens with Spring sports, rain has kept the' team indoors longer than planned. Lawrence has some idea of how his boys look, but he is waiting to see how they swing and field outside, before making the final cut of the squad After one week of outdoor practice, tl\e Union College :Track team is rapidly rounding i:nto form. With most of .last year's cindermen retm:ning, •Coach Hill Retz is optimistic about the Garnet's chances thiEf season. - Squad is Balanced to 18 or 20 men. · Frosh Offer Competition ~--------------- #At the present time, few of the positions seem secured by any of the players. The veterans are now faced with competition from the freshmen, who have only recently been declared eligible for the com- ing campaign. A few of the neo- phytes appear to be good prospects, and may prove to be a big help to Art, who lost several key men through graduation last year. List Intra Standings :. In addition to the veterans, who Ketz i~ .greatly pleased· with the heiped tb,e team to a 3~3 recoi·d last ·team, especially with the 31 man S'pring, traclt mentor Ketz expects · tumout and their capabilities. He ·considerable help from . severa;l ..• plans to cut ·ilo one who continues · talented freshmen. A well-balanced to show interest in the team. Bill :. squad has turned out, and at least feels that, if th~ sq1,1ad gets by an even break is anticipated. Rochester \n· the opener, the G!!;r- Soph John Trotter, and F.rosh net will have> a winning .season. . Frank KJ.wus and John King form -==::::::====::::::==~==== .the nucleus· of an entirely new- \· According to figures anr.ounced . sprinting group. The hurdles will. · Co-captain Phil McQuade ap- pears assurred of being the num- ber one pitcher for the team when the season opens. Lawrence is hopeful that Ldtic Hunk KajJ· meyer will come thl'Ough am! help plug the gap left by Ed Carsky, last season's big winner. Bob Fau- bel will probably return to the hurling staff again this year. Hobie DePuyt, '3. southpaw, ha$ looked very sharp at times during indoor practice, but his hitting may cause Coach Lawrence to keep him in the outfield. by Inti·amural Athletic Director not be as strong as last year, .but Art Lawrence, Phi Delta Theta returnee Sig Giambruno and ver- holds a slight lead over Delta Up- satile Bob Mu;ray a:r;'e expected to silon in the race for the Intra hold their own. Freshman Frank point trophy. The totals given be- Panarieilo is an inexperienced low are inclusive of Fall and Win- hurdle-hopper, but has been im- tcr competition. proving. Bob McQUeen, who gradu- Team ·Points Abe Laltshin, right, a.I1d Dick Dolan, who are ex~~cted to be · ated last year, wiil be greatly Phil Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . 378.210 big point producers for the Union track squad. Lali:shin, co-cap- missed' in this event. Delta UpRilon ............. 355.555 fain of thP t<'am will run, thl' half and two mile events. Dolan, The pole vault \Viii be consider- .. Ddta I'lu 309.830 ahly weaker this year, as a ·result a sophomort\ will show 'his speed in tlie mile and half mile diS... C'hi P\i . . . . . . . . . . . 286.306 of the loss .. of Bud Burnham, who Kappa Sh;ma . . . . . . . . . . . 282.855 tances. · · sacrificed track for his studies. Sigma Cl:i ................ 282.695 ---~-------------------------..,-- Five men will attempt to fill the Phi Gamma Delta ........ 281.780 ·n h G •dd 0 . gap; with Len Klingberg and Dave Kappa Alpha ' ........... ' 266.342 utc· . men ·r· I ers . pen Brown heading the list. The other Alpha Dl'lta Plu .......... 258.570 . . · . . · · aspiring vaulters are Randy Orafu, P~i Upsilon ......... , ...... 250.355 ·Tom Giambrunb and Cha·rley ~~·!~zi~~l'ta .Pi.:·.: ......... ;i~:~~~ Spring Practice Sessions Mosher. Theta Dt•lta Chi . . 205.792 Munay in Quarter Delta Chi .. , .............. 193-014 Kappa Nu ................. 185.833 ~igma Phi 161.425 Phi Sigma Delta . . . 152.500 J oily Boys . . . . . . . . . 130.833 Beta Eta Upsilon . . 117.500 Phi Sigma Kappa . . 108.611 Half Pints .... , .. , . 105.555 I.N.Ds . . . . . . . . . 72.222 Faculty . . . . . . . . . 61.111 St>nPcans 54.285 The Union College Football team opened its three week Spring practice session :Monday, under the guidance of head coach Sam Hammerstrom and his assistant, Jim Kenney, Nine letter men head the list of the 48 players who have re- pOI·ted, or are expected to report. Nine Letter Men The quarter mile should prove to be one of the strong points of the team. Murray will be hard to catch in this event, and he'll re- ceive plenty of support from team- mates Brown, John • Pape, Gary Murphy, Ed Lifset and Sonny Gert-. · zog. Abe Lakshin, Dick Dolan, and Golfers Meet; Rain !~l~':s~ are a speedy trio of baH Newt Culver, one of Union's· SAVE 20 CENTS MON. THim FRIDAY 12:30 TO 6 P.M. 50~ · Afte1· 6 o'cloc~ 70c :iG~mu;~ STARTING . . tODAY A Splendid Two Major P'ictlll'e Program Outstanding Teclmicolor LORETTA YOUN(} BARRY SULLIVAN _CAUSE FOR ALARM Try to guess the suprising finis~ Ted Caldes has yet to acclimate himself around first base during the preliminary sessions, but Gary Young looks good at the keystone sack. Cal Schmidt is almost as- sured or holding down the back- stopping duties again this year, but may get some competition from Dick Shaffer, a freshman. As things stand now, Co-captain Walt Krupa and Dick Munro will round out the infield. However, Art Lawrence has emphasized the fact that none of the positions are sure and they will depend on how the boys look on the field and in the batter's box, particularly, Water Tests Given The nine letter men who ap- peared for the initial practice were linemen Charley Carpenter, Je11ry O'Loughlin, Ivan Kaminow, Jim Salerno and Harry Miller; and backs Rube Johnson, Randy Oram, Jack Judge and Charley Mosher. The list is limited, since thirteen footballer$ are out for Lacrosse and four of this group are also IPttermf'n. Prevents Practice greatest milers, has graduated, but the slack should be taken up by · The Golf team, which held its Dolan, who has done 4:31 in high .--------------_.., first meeting on Monday, has been school. Two capable frosh, AI stymied by the weather in its at- MacKinnon and Ken Stein, wlll . Probable Picket Line There are a number of good prospects for the outfield berths. Bill Kaznowski will be trying to hold down his leftfield position again; if things get tough he may well he crrl!Pd on hy Lawrence to fill in as pitcher. Soph Gent· Rchwartzmnn has >hown a \lot of I nhility n.q an outfielder ~md will be I ablP tn win him>t•lf a ,(art int; h!'rth if he can ;huw ,ume jJO\\'c!' I at the !>late. Swimming Coach Ray Mul- lane!' has announced that sev- Pral RPd Cross watP'r safety f'ours••s will IJp given this year and will hP open to all intf'rest- f'd students. The courst-s givt-n will hP on<' to qualify for a S•·nior I..ift• Sa-..·ing rating and th.. otht-r will bt- for ·water IO;af .. t~· In~truC'tor's rating. ThPSl' f'011!'<ot'~ will hPgin on :\Iunday, .'\pril 16, and f'la\\''~ will be hPld P\'f'ry day hPginning at 1 p.m. Holding an In,.tr.uctor's f'anl ma,y Jli'O\t' a-\<'I'Y ,·aJuable a'\\t for \'Hill' of the stud .. nts who art· \\\king summPr job, ~inf'P it i<> nPCP,!'HllJ· for most waft>r-front positions. :\lnllanl' will also hold a. spe- cial chi~\ for thn~t· Htlld<'nts who ar•• nnn ... wirnm••t·s or l~t·ginners. Thi-. 1'<1111'\\ will be twld t'\'<'ry 11 fftornoon at -t: 15, also begin- ning on -\plil 16. Dick Henry is another frc:;hman who might well fmd htmself in the lineup if he looks good at the plate. If DePuyt doesn't pitch he 1 is :;ur c to play regularly in the out- 1 field. Lawrence would pr cfer to 1 play HoLic in the gardens, if the 1 rest of his .;;taff ~omes through. 1 He has shown a lot of ability as,, a hitter in the past, so tt mrght -------------- be hard for the coach to keep him D out of the lineup. 1 raft Defe1·ments Open With Orange !Continued from Page ll exf'cutive order might be interpret- If the weather continues to be ed as a sort of \feeler\ to deter- good in the near future the team mine public reaction. will get two weeks of practice on High S<>hool GI1llds Int\ligible the, diamond before opening Thp impencling (>Xpiration of thE> aga1n~t the powerful Syl'acuse : prrsPnt RP!rrtivr ~Pr\'il'<' Act seems t<'al!l un Aprtl 21, away. The ftrst 'tn inr!irntr fhP n•nson for High home game of tla: scllbon will be fkbnnl stur!f'nls h<'ing rnnsidered on the .2iJth agamst Middlebury. 1 inf'!i::ihlr to taltP thr aptitude There ate now al..out twenty-two' frob Anv nrtion tnkrn in thr~<' ll!l'n. un lh~. \4U1~u but Lawren~e 1 ,.\\\\ will. prohahly hr set asid£', huj>es to kcq, tt .tt about lb to ~O • p<'ncling thr> 011 tcome of House and men for the season. I !':••nn.tP discus\ion and decisions. \Vhen the schoCJi year openPd, in I In answer to critics proclaiming September, there was, as usual, a: that col!ege men, by this new di- good deal o~ talk by the freshm:n I rective. are heing classified as \too about wantrng a neophyte outfrt, smart to fight.\ Professor Larrabee becau~e of th•• good m~terial avail-~· brought out the point that brains able m the class of 54. These are now a nf'cessity for warfare. freshmen are now getting a chance, \One of the most dangerous posi- to demonstrate. their abil. it_y .. and I tions to .occupy In time of war,\ h.e Art Lawrence IS pretty high on said, \is that of an educated man.\ several of them. Of course, a This directive will not alter the fewer men will get, a chance to i acceleration plans of the college actually play than rf there were I according to Professor Larrabee. two teams, but Kapmeyer, Henry, 'The plan was initially set up on Schaffer, and one or two other I an individua] selection basis, and frosh m~y \\:ell find .themselves in i will not require revision to meet the varsity lmeup this season. i present needs, ~--=---=--==-===·====~'~==~~~~ Ferro's Restaurant Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE FERRO Proprietors 1115 Barrett St. • Specializing in ITALIAN-AMERICAN FOOD Phone 6•9554 LANGE & RAPP Pharmac:y Prescriptions \The College Stud.ents Drug Store\ Chemicals - Drugs Cor. NOT'r TERRACE and STATE STREET · . .,. ... Of the 48 aspirants, 29 are frosh. According to coach Hammerstrom, ''They are the big question-mark.\ The grid mentor also averred that one of the prime motives of the Spt ing ,;cssion b to disco·;er the fr n>h football potential, and help tu develop it. Hammerstrom is rather disap- pointed. since only 15 of those who reported have had varsity expPri- ence. and drills have been limitPd by conflicting labs and ROT~ drill«. In addition, eight mPn are doubling between track and foot- ball practice. The most obvious fact of the sessions is the lack of big men, especially among the backs. A('('l'nt on FundamPntals Most of the practice time Will be spent on fundamentals and con- tact scrimmages. The squad may not. however, have a regular game- conditioned scrimmage. They experiment with a sing!!' win.; at- tnrk. an dal~o pay attrntion tr:> 1 thPir hn.~if' wingecl \T\ patt.,rn.•. 1 :\I,•nto.r Hammo·r>trum fed:; !hall the lt·am. generally, lacks expv: i- <'n<\<'. HP claims that th•·re i~ a 1 Wr H\fttl lack of ldg nH•n, L'\\• n ft.:.\'. l'r I of th< m thnn la,t >ea~on. ::;,un also s!att·d that. if rain contiuues to i.nider practkt>, !hP se\; 1 may hf' extendrd beyond th!'ir three week period. FOR All YOUR GIFT NEEDS • Serving Union Since 791 J ~ ~RSO\~ ()R\\~~:ST.JlWEliRS tempt to begin practice. Dr. Clare baclt him up. Graves, who is coach again this The field events, with the pos- ·, year, is hoping for the wet weather sible exception of the javelin and to stop, in order to take his charges the broad jump, will be improved. to thf' Edison Club for the initia- Big Ed O'Mealey, who alternates tion of practice. between track and spring football, Thref' men return from last has looked good in practice and year's 'l:arsity. They are Captain should be the number one shotput- Al Do\·Je, DavE> Frost and Ed Ex- ter .. In addition. Bill Morse and ner. Doyle wns numbN two man Stretch Batkiewicz can be counted last RN!son. whilE> Frost and Exner on. for credible performances in hf'ld thrir own on the fairways. I the •weights . !'\ophomorPs Rob Dibbl<', Ed T.en. 1 Kf'tz UndPI'idro nnrl Rn.rry Byron, who \vorked out with th<' varsity last season, art' ThP~e thr<'e mPn will toss the al\o out for thf' squad. discus along with Don \VI!sey, : HoW<'V(>r, Conrh Graves has lost Jack Fischel and Tom Giambruno. · hio: numbf'r on<> and thre<' men · Coa<'h Ketz is undedded on his fmm Jao:t VPar, Ben Swan and Joe' broad jumper~. having lost Art ::-.TPndf'hwn: In addition he profit- Hagar, his handy-man h .. 'lt yrar. <'d verv littiP from th(> new fresh- Wilsey and Murmy hllV£', the in- man eiiglbillty rul<', sin<'£' only one \ide track, however. Wilsey, Ken fr<'~hrnan rPport-Pd to the initial Johngon and Lou Muller ha\'C the m<'eting. javelin berths nfliled down. Thf' g-olf<'rs open thPir Sf'ason at hornr, playin~ Colgatf', April 27, on thP F.cli!mn Club ·Course. Serving Union's Men For Years See your agent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 State St. near Ferry Phil Englebardt's Liquor Store • A full supply of liquor and wines for all your needs on parents weekends. 519 UNION ST. I ,, I r GOOD SHOES FOR il STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING Z45 ~tatP St.~Sint'e 1891\ Gazette 2ittf~~;~ THE WHOLE BLAZING STORY OF THE \TRI-STATE MURDER MOB! 11 HIGHWAl 301\ Steve Cochran-'\'irginia. Grey • 2 MAJOR HITS e JOSEPH COTTEN VALLI .. WALK SOFTLY STRANGER .. 2 FIRST RUN HITS 4Irr~~~~~ IN TECHNICOLOR \STAGE TO TUSCON\ ROD ·CAMERON-WAYNE MORRIS e 2nd 1st RUN HIT e MICKEY ROONEY In \He's A Coc:keyed Wonder•• · Press II. 166 Jay Street l! Phone 3-3110 Printers SAVE 10% •• -ON FOOD COSTS •• - •• SAVE lO% NOTT R~STAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6•9766 \Meef and Eaf at EDOIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5~50 for $5.00 / I 4 I 1 j

6 To the Brains Go th/e Deferments The Dean's List fol' the ad interim grades for the period ending l\Iarch 21, 1951 has been released by Dean C. William Huntley. Of the 236 regular students on the list, the senior class leads with 78 men, the other three classes folilowing in order with 62, 58, and 38 men, respectively. These students have all received an index of 3.0 or l.Jette1· and had no more than one grade as low as a C. The special students are those carrying· less than the 15 hours l'equired for a normal schedule. A!:l students on the list are excused from the absence rl:lle. Peter R. Agnew, Nathaniel B.~-----------------------------­ Allan, Joseph M. Allen, Elmer H. Miller, Robert J. Miller, Howard S. Antonsen, Thomas E. Baker Jr., Modlin, Thomas I. Moran, William Irwin S. Barg-, Arthur S. Bel'ler, R. Morcom, Robert W. Morgan, Dean E. Bensley, Floyd C. Bentley, Garrett w. Murphy, *John M. New- David Berley, Aron M, Bernstein, ton, Armond N. Nirdlinger. Gerald Normand C. Blais, Harvey L. Blass, E. O'Loughlin, Donald E. Olsen. Richard J. Blum, Morris F. Belster, heit, Martin S. Werman, Robert L. West, Vaughn A. White, Henry N. Williams, Robert W. WiJ.liams, Alan WinterbN·ger, William G. Witzigman, Geot·ge J. V.'t·ubel, Don- ald H. Zenger, Earl R. Zimmer, Orazio R. Zumho. SpPcial Students FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1951 Larrabee Talks on Ethics, Prospective Frosh Change 'S Ion Com ... m.· uni·sm. . .Get Scholarships The Scholarship Committee of Union College has announced the Dr. Harold A. Larrabee, chai.rman of the department of names of more than 60 pt·ospective philosophy at Union College, deHvered two talks to the Union freshmen who have been awarded student body on Tuesday and Thursday af.ternoons in Mem- ·scholarships amounting to more ~.f\' d f than $25-,000. orial Chapel. His topic was \The Battle for the 1u1n s ·o • Union awards annually more .i\len.'' than $50,000 in scholarships to its He stressed the fact that, al- ~~------------ students. The total number now though a soldier'·s ethics are most The same thing, Larrabee went, held by Union students is 169. Ten li·kely those of his commander, a on, is true of the :f!amHiar Marxist of these awards are full-tuitien, service man must have some ethics charge of imperia:J.ism. The man sch0larshi.ps held by foreign stu- rrbeut becoming a s0ldier. He most likely to be refuting that, dents studying under the Higher WPnt on te say that loyalty is charge is the one who :bel1 0 ws for Education for Lasting Peace pro- something a soldier must under- \an American century\ all over the gram. Union students also hold stand as well as have. planet, who puts a po'litica!l price . more than 200 scholarsh·ips from Communism Has Changed Dr. Larmbee next talked about cummunbm and Stalinism. H\ pointed o1.1t that Stalanist com- tag· en everything, even wheat for · sources other than the college, India, and whe opp0ses Point Four , predominantly New York State lest it b1:1Hd up business C'ivals scholarships. Allen C. Braemer, Donald M. Bro- verman, William G. Burns, Robert E. Byrne, Joseph J. Cali, Bruce A. Campbell, Frederick F. Cannan, Paul P. Carbone, James H. Carll, Raymond H. Chu, Charles S. Clark, Ed·ward S. Clark Jt· .. Hugo F. Clear- water, Savi ,V. Clough, Allan I. Cohen, Arthur E. Cohen. Jay N. Cohn, Salvatore Colangelo, Huesten Collingwood, Rohprt A. Conrad, William S. Conway, *Guy F. Cooper, Bradford Coryell, Don M. Cregier. Bela B. Paine, Frank A. Pepe, Frank A. Pietropaoli, David Platt, Richard H. PoHen, Martin Portnoy, Ralph E. Pt•usok, George W. Put- man, Thomas H. Putman, Karl Reinitz, Richard Relkin, Robert M. Richter. NP!son A. Ri·pley, Gerald D. Roberts, • Lawrence H. Reck- land, Herbert F. Roome, Leslie E. Rudolf, Robert H. Rukgaber, Nich- olas T. SaYiano, Edmund R. Saw- telle Jr., Peter Schlein, Ferdinand J. Schuette, Joseph G-. Schultz, Donald E. Schwartz, Leonard S. Schwartz, Norman E. Scull, Lynn Shay, Caryle ,J. Sherwin, Marcus L. Shoobe, Martin Siegel, Monroe Silverman, Howard A. Simons, Ste- phen J. Simons, Richard A. Sitts, Stanley S. Skorupski Jr., David I. Smith. Eric H Smith, Floyd E. Snyder, George G. Souhan. Helmut Aigner, John A. Dilling- munism did not originate as an ham, Le Gnmde Howell, Leonard att0mpt to establ·ish tyranny, hut Such individuals only tend to con-·~p..;,-o.;..;.:.,;;.;.,. ________ -J firm what the communists are say- ing, he added. W. Herrick. Harlan B. Juengling, rather as form of idealism, dedi-. Need Self-Criticism FRAN;K FERRARO Wholesale & Retail Fruits & Produce 1231 CRANE STREET SCHENECTADY Leland H. Crosby, Richard P. Currier, Paul A. Danziger. Richard 0, Davis, Robert F. Dibble, Stephen B. Dietz Jr., William E. Doll, Thomas F. Donlon, Vincent P. Don- nelly, James F. Dorrill, Allan M. Doyle Jr., Max P. Dreyfuss. Frank E. Drohan, Robert C. Duncan Jr., Leonard B. Dunn, Peter H. Ed- inger, •RobPrt R. Engisch, Gerald Ente, *Klaus Eppler, George Van Exner. Raymond J. Fabian, Paul R. Fenwick, LaurencE> J. Foley, Gerald G. Foster, Edward E. Free- man Irwin FriPdman, BE>njamin Fur;t, Joseph R Gabriels. Albert J. Galletta, Paul M. Ganeles. Joseph J. Gardeski, Edward P. Garner. Rodney W. Gartner, Harry M. Geh- man Jr., Gerald G. eismar, Rich- ard A. Genthner, Isak V. Gerson, Sigmund C. Giambruno, John E. Glennon, Avrom J. Gold, Henry oldstein. Donald T. Gouger, Lawrence Greenberg, Davis W. Griffith, Rob- ert B. Grindley, Walter J. Gruen, Oscar Grusky, William J. Curt- shaw, Jack S. Guzelis. William P. Hall ITI, Charles E. Hallenbeck Jr., Leo A. Halloran Jr., Eugene Hal- pert, Donald C. Halstead, Donald J. Harris, Hubert B. Harris, Rich- ard W. Henry, Robert Herbst, Keith A. Hitchibs, Robert W. Hockenbmy, Richard A. Hoffman, V\'alter S. Hoffman, V\l'arren E. Hoffman, Joseph C. Honet, Robert H. Horn, Jewell W. Horning Jr .. Donald M. Hoskins, Marshall N. Huberman, *Arthur T. Hutton Jr., Ronald C. Jacobs, Douglas M. Jamba, Earl W. Jennison, Ralph Jonas, George Jung, William Kalms III, Ivan P. Kaminow, David J. Kavee, John P. Kennedy, William C. Ketchum, Alfred H. Kingen, Jerome 0. Klein. Lewis S. Klein, *Charles F, Koch, Myron Komar, Leo Kuperschmid, Anthony E. Lang, John I. Larkin, Robert A. Laudise, Robert M. Lea, Edward L. Lee, Alfred A. Leszcyn- ski, Lawrence W. Levine, Leonard S. Levine. Richard H. Loeber, Joseph C. Loffredo, Frank E. Lord, Eliot Loshak, Thomas H. McCabe, Alfred H. McKinlay, John G. Mac Dougal, John C. Maisel, Calvin L. 11alinka, George E. Markham Jr., Duncan S. Martin, Richard C. Me- chanic, Donald Meserve, Samuel Milham Jr., Frederick C. Miller, Howard C. Miller, Richard F. 0 Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired e Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Co. Herbert L. Spira, Leonard A. Staskelunas, James J. Stekert, Dante Stirpe, Richard H. Stock, Arthur M. Stockman, Roger W. Story, Jacl,son S. Stroud, Richard J. Sullivan, ~'illiarn S. Szypula, Eng Seng Tan, Aonthony P. Tar- taglia, Harry C. Thomson, Francis M. Tierney, Abraham H. Topchil,, Thor N. Trolsen, Alan R. Tropp, Louis A. Urbano, Richard L. Val~ ent, Jules R. Ville, Jan C. Walker, David Walrath, Medford S. Web- ster, Daniel Weiner, John G. Weis- LEADING SELLER IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES George I. Le Baron Jr., Sam H. cated at first to social justice and Newcomer, *John H. Ostrom, Breck. the t'ealization of a classless so- He aJlso thought that the most H. Powell, Allison Y. Taber, John cietv. It is clear, however, that stupid thing that we could do i.l to. F. \Va:ldvogel. Frank B. Walker II, this. kind of communism is a thing fight fanatical Stalinism with an· Edwin E. WhPcler. Pnul J. Woods. of the past, and that Stalinism Is equa.Jly fanatical \democratic' dog- a very different affair, he de- matism of our own. Louis Batkiewiez. Tom Christen- sen, Samuel W. Di Sibio, Elizabeth Forsyth, Charh•s J. Mastroeni, Dr. Fr0d H. Pulver. John A. Stark- weather, Klaus A. Toepelt, Gerard H. Weinlander GraduatE\ Studfn1s John E. Fagel Jr.. Gilbert H. Holtz. Raymond J. HowE', Hubert J. K<'iiy, C:\Trs.l Celeste Prehmus. Albin J. Rzeszotarski, Robert W. Schaefer, Elizabeth E. Thornburg, Earl J. Van Alstine, I Mrs.) Pel- Ping Yen. *·lndPx :-, 111111 0 Campus Clothing D1·ive To End This 'V eek The campus clothing driVl', spon- sored by the liaison committee, will er. d this week. Collection boxes are in Silliman Hall. ''htred. We do not nee<l more trl:lst in · PHONE 6-1763 HE> further asserted that the authority, more efficient organiza- quarrel with Stalinist communism tion from above, more readymade is not about the ends which it pro- solutions of our problems, he Eaid, ft'sses to be s0eking, a more <=quit- but l'ather more toleration of m.Jnor able sharing of the world's goods, differences,. more enlightened seep- but about the means of secrE'cy, tlcism, more self-criticism, and Ill,;,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ conspirac~·. and violent revolution' much less greed for the fast buck, I: ,.;t,•mming from the bitter c!ass- which is the real Achilles heel of antagonisms which it uses in try- our economic system. ing to attain them. Hence it be- ----ot--- comes n0cessary for us to examine the nwans that we ourselves use in combatting communism. Fanatics Intensify Struggle Dr. Larrabee stated that people denounce class-war out of one !>ide of their mouths, and intensify it from the other. They are all fight- ing fot· either labor or capital to the last ditch, while they are de- nouncing as \pinks\ those very individuals who a1 e trying to alle- viate the struggle by arbitration and cooperation. Plan to Invite HELP Students for Next Year Plans are underway to invite at least six foreign students to study at Union next year under the HELP Plan. Herbert Hufnagel has been named student chai.rman in chat>ge of the arrangements for next year. Professor Stanley Johnson will be foreign student advisor, replacing Pvofessor Gordon Silber, who will go on leave. · La G. BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PIN~ - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN 30 MmTBy Ave, Wate.rford. N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-2523 t;u IWTH IT fM.4'v .I THOUSANDS of students all over the country are making this test-proving for themselves Chesterfield smells milder, smokes milder tha11 any other cigarette. THEY KNOW TOO .•. Chesterfield gives them more for their money ... Chesterfield leaves !lQ !ll!P.Ieasant after-~~ That's right, More-for-Your-Money •.. MILDNESS f'~ NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE HESTERFIELD, Copyright t95l, Ltoam e< MYERs TOBACCo Co. ' I I I

ion College bh most of optimistiC with the the 31 man pabilities. He continues team. Bill uad gets by the Gar- ing season. NTS soc 70c Major finish Now MOB! Grey e ITS Now MORRIS e In FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1951 Scrimmages Prep Union Stickmen Spring Sports Schedule Varsity Baseball Apr. 21-At Syracuse Apr, 25-Middlebury Apr. 27-Hamilton May 2-Williams May 4-Stevens · By .Bill Mohrmann Still curtailed by poor weather conditions, the varsity lacrosse team has been confined to indoor practice sessions ' for the·most part, in attempting to build a squad for the sea~ son ahead. However, the stickmen engaged in four conte·sts recently in which mentor Frank O'Brien was able to size up May 7-At Massachusetts May H-At Rochester May '12-At Hobart May 16-R.P.I. May 18-Rochester May 25-At R.P.I. May 26-At Hamilton June 9-Quantico Marines the prospects. Practice Game& ~·----~------------ Varsity Golf Apr. 27-Colgate Making a swing to the south, the team faced the lacrossemen of Rostra, Princeton, Swarthmore and Army and did well considering the fact that they had only two days of previous outdoor practice. .Al- though no ,official'scores were kept in the con tests, running scores were kept of the Princeton and Rostra games·. The Dutchmen had little trouble with Rostra, but bowed to Princeton by 9-3 count. Coach O'Brien feels there is still considerable room for improve- ment, both in the attack and gen- eral team play. A decision concern- ing a J. V. lacrosse squad has not been made, but, because of the great number of aspirants, a Jay- vee squad might be established consisting of Freshmen and a few from the varsity. O'Brien will keep about forty men for the two squads, but a final cut has not yet been made. In the practice games several men showed u,p well, while the team itself gained valuable ex- perience. Fighting it out for the goalie position are Bill Greve and Dick Heimann. Greve, a returnee from last year's varsity, has the inside track on the position thus, far, but Heimann, last year's neo- phyte goalie, has shown consider- Herb Hufnagel The Lacrosse Team's fine at- tack man, who should do . much to lighten Coa.cb. Franl• G'Bril'n's burden in his first season at Union. A great competitor, Herb paced the Garnet sticl•men in scoring la.st year, denting the mesh 88 times, Apr. 3D-Rochester May 2-Williams May 8-At Vermont May 11-R.P.I. May 16-At Hamilton May 19-At R.P,I. May 25-Hamilton Junior Varsity Lacrosse Apr. 21-Williams Apr. 28-R.P-I. May 9-At Troy Emeralds May 12-At Deerfield May 16-At R.P,I. May 19-Troy Emeralds May 26-Utica Tech Varsity Track Apr. 21-Rochester Apr. 28-At Hamilton May 5-Hartwick May 9-At Champlain May 12-At R.P.I. able ability at the position. - Sophs Impressive The two high scores of last year's freshman team, Ben Thelin and Bob Larsen, are two other sophomore aspirants who have a good chance for varsity berths. John Kennedy, another returnee, has looked well in practice ses- sions, while Dick Nemeth and Cap- tain Bob Haas have both been outstanding in their defensive play. • In the midfield positions, Cui Hayes, Bill Snyder and Norm Carr have sparked the play. Intra 'Swim Meet Is Set O'Brein has an outstanding freshman prospect in Bill Hall, who played high school lacrosse, and at the present time is playing the mid field. Herb Hufnagel, the high scorer last season, played well in practice until he became sick. Herb averaged better than three goals per game last year when the team finished with a n:ediocre record of five wins and six def.,ats. Also returning from la£t years squad are Joe Gardcski, Bill V>'mchester,. Steve DiMarco, Bub Godburn and Lt>s Couch. The stickmen have a long way to go before their eight game schedule opens at home, with a powel'ful Cornell team providing the first official opposition. The Big Red ''ill have had a head start in practice and conditioning, hav- ir.g made a swing through the South. This will be one of the three home games on the schecl- ule, \Villiams and Hobart provid- ing the only other home opposi- tion. O'Brien Has PrOblem Many o.f last year's team have been lost, and O'Brien faces a major task in getting a well rounded squad on the field, in his fir-st season as coach. Co-captains Tom Quinlan and Jerry Rost, who provided the attack last year, have graduated, along with mld- fwjdcr \\'alt Causey who dropped from sehoul. Stan Peschel and Ken Schneelock will not play be- cause of scholastic difficulties. Parker \21\ Octanium Point pen 5.00 set 8.75 The first part of the intramural swimming meet will be held at 4:45, on Tuesday ' afternoon, in Foote Memorial Pool. No student who was a. member of the varsity or freshman squads will be per- mitted to participate, nor will any- one who has won a varsity swim- ming letter, All entries will be accepted in the pool, before the event begins. One man will be al- lowed to compete in three events -two relays and one individual event, or two individual events and one relay event. Tuesday Competition Tuesday afternoon the 100 yard freestyle and 50 yard breaststroke events will be held. In addition to these, there will be a 150 yard medley relay event. This consist~ of three men- one backstrokcr, one breaststroker, and one freestyler, swimming in that order for a dis- tance of 50 yards each. On the following afternoon, Wed- nesday, the 50 yard freestyle and 50 yard backstroke, individual events, will be held. A 200 yard freestyle relay ~ace ~'<rill also he run. For the relay, each team will enter four men to swim 50 yard laps. All four places will he judged for each event; and all contestants will be swimming against the cloek to determine the final winners. 0 Softball Notice All Intramural Softball rosters and entries should be in Coach Art Lawrence's office in Alumni Gym not later than Friday, April 13. PIPase d~~>ignatf' manager and phone number, if any. Special air tention is rallPd to thf' Intrllllllural rule which proilihits fratf'mity men from pln.:yln\g v.ith an lnd!\- pendent team. NAKE GRUPPER'S YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR YOUR eGJFTS •WATCH REPAIRING eflEHS & PENCILS 185 Jay Street (Next to Fanny Farmer) Famous Chinese and American Foods LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595 :.·· ··.·=·· ····:·· '.• ':· '•.·. May 16-:At Vermont May 19-At New York State Assn. Champs. Varsity Lacrosse Apr. 18--Cornell Apr. 25-Williams Apr. 28--A..t Hofstra May 5-Hamilton May 9-At R,P.I. May 12-Hoba;rt May 19-At Stevens May 23-At Middlebury Varsity Tennis Apr. 27-At Hamilton Apr. 28--At Syracuse May 2-R.P-I. May 4-Middlebury May 11-Vermont May 18-At Brooklyn Poly May 19-At Stevens May 23-Hamllton May 25-At R.P.I. 0---- Prizes A warded At a meeting of the Awards Committee, held before Eastel' re- cess, the following skiing awavds were a;nnounced. Block \U\s weve awarded to Juniors Hallvard A. Osborg, Mark E. Branson and Alexander M. MacCormick, Mgt•.; and Sophomore Harvey F. Young. \aUa\s were given to Sophomores James L. Cusato and Robert W. Cline. Young was elected Captain for the 1951-1952 season. Netmen Begin Practice; 32 Canqidates Report The Union College Tennis teamt~·~------------------ began workouts last week, under . . . the watchful eyes of coach Pete h1.gh hopes are held that th1s f1ve Nistad. With four of the first Wlll form the nucleus of a success- six. men from last season's team ful squad. gone, the Garnet netmen will have The schedule for the coming net a tough time bettering 1950's dis- campaign will be considerably mal record. harder than last year's. Coach Record Turnout With freshmen as well as Upper- classman eligible for varsity com- petition, a record number of 32 candidates appeared at the first meeting. Although rain has cur- tailed practice, tennis mentor Nis- tad has been enheartened by three rookie prospects who have shown up well in the early drills. The bio is composed of Soph Pat Lakshminarsu, Freshman Bob Engles, and Junior Herb Schmertz. However, all positions on the team are wide open, and Nistad said he will cut no one until all have had an adequate chance to show their ability. Returning from last year's squad are captain Mike Rumpf, George Exner, Edgar Snell, Al Fishbone and Walt Jenney. Although Rumpf is the only one with first string varsity experience under his belt, Pete Nistad has added a tough Syracuse University squad to such strong opponents as Vermont and Middlebury. Nistad is afraid that the team will Jack depth, but is counting on :Mike Rumpf to be the number one man of the staff. ~ ...... James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street

6 . . F~~Y, APRIL 6, 1951 Larrabee Talks on Ethics, . Prospective Frosh Ch . C · Get Scholarships · The Dean's List for the ad interim grades for the period ending March 21, 1951 has' . anges In ommunism u:::~: ~~~:;;;rs~~~ ·~~~:;~~~~ t~! To the Brains Go the· Deferments been released by Del;ln C. William Huntley, Of the 236 regular students on the list, the Dr. Harold A. Larrabee, chairman of the department of. names of more tha 11 60 prospective senior class leads with 78 men, the other three classes following in order with 62, 58, and philosophy at Union Goll~ge;. delivered two talks to the Union freshmen who have ibeen. awarded 38 men, respectively. These students have aU received an index of 3.0 or better and had no student body on Tuesday and Thursday af.ternoons in Mem-·. scholarships amounting to mqre more than one grade as low as a G. The special students are th0se carrying less than the orial Chapel. His to.pi~ was \The Battle .for the Minds of thfj~i!!fi.,O~~a 1 •ds .annually more· 15 hours required for a normal schedule. All students on the list are excused from the Men.\ than $50;ooo in schoia,vships to its He stressed the fact that, al- students. The total number now absence rule. · t?ough a soldier'~ ethics a,re most ~The same thing, Larrabee went' held, by Union students is· 169, Ten Peter R. Agnew, Nathaniel B. • .l!kei;v those of h1s commander,, a on, is true of .the familiar 1\<larxist . of these awards are full-tuition, All J h M A .ll El H sevv10e man must have some eth1cs scholarshiP~>. 1:leld b.Y· foreign stu- . an, osep · · en, mer · Miller, Robert J. Mmer, Howard s. · heit, Martin s. Werman, Robert L. . · · · . · . . ' charge of impel'ia:Iism. The man Antonsen, Thomas E. Baker Jr., Modlin, Thomas I. Moran, William West, Vaughn A. White, Henry N. about becommg a . soldler. ~e: most likely to be refuting that, dents studying unqer the Higher Irwin S. Barg, Arthur S, Beller, R. Morcom, Robert W. Morgan,· WH!iams, Robert W. Williams,. went ~n to say. that loyalty IS charge is the .one wh6 bellows for:' Education for Lasting Peace P 1 ' 0 - Dean E. Bensley, Floyd C. Bentley, ·Garrett W. M;ur.phy, •John M. New- Alan Winterberger, William G. somethmg a soldier must .under- :''an American century\ all over .the gra111. Union studeh.ts a:lso hold David Berley, Aron M. Bernstein, ton, Armond' N. Nirdlinger, Gerald Witzigman, George J. Wrubel, Don- stand as well as have. . planet, who puts a pcilitica!. price more than 200 scl:!olar.ships from N d C B . I · Har y L Blass 0 · H '\\\' ed ' t th' · h · f sources other than. .the college, · orman · · · a1s, ve · • E. O'Loughlin, Donald E. Olsen. a;ld H. Zenger, Earl R. Zimmer, ommurusm as vuang : ag on every 1ng, even w ea1: or Richard J. Blum, Morris F. Bolster, ·Orazio R. zumbo. Dr. Larrabee next talked about ,India, and who oppos~s Point Fo~r predominantly New York State Allen C. Braemer, Donald M. Bro- Bela B. Paine, Frank A. Pepe, communism and Stalinism. He,: lest it build up business rivals.: ,;s.;.c;;;h.;,o.;la,;;;r,;;,sh,;;,~l·p;.;s,;.,. ---------. verman, William G. Burns, Robert Frank A. Pietropaoli, David Platt,, Special Students ·pointed out that Stalal'].ist com- S:uch individuals only tend to con\ · · E. Byrne, Joseph J. Cali, Bruce A. Richard H. PoBim, Martin Portnoy, mu·ru'sm .dl'd not or 1 ·g 1 ·nate. as a·n.·.f_rrm what the communists ar.e :;;ay- R I h E P k G W P t Helmut Aigner, John A. Dilling- Campbell, Frederick F. Ca;nnan, a P · ruso • eorge · u- attempt to estabh.'sh ty· ranny, but mg, )le added. P l P C b J H C 11 man, Thomas H. 'Putman, Karl ham, Le Grande Howell, Leonard , au . ar one, ames . ar . ' W. Herrick, Harlan B. Juengling, rather as . form of ~de~is~, dedi- ; Need Self~Criticism Raymond H. Chu, Charles S. Clark, Reinitz, Richard· Relkin, Robert M. George I. Le BaroJ;l Jr., Sam H., cated at frrst to socm:l JUsbce and . Wh f I &: R . - •• Edward S. Clark Jr., Hugo F. Clear- Richter, Nelson A. Ripley, Gerald the rcallzatr'on of a classless so- He also thought that the most:: • 0. eSQ e. . · eta.t D R b t *L H R k Newcomer, •John H. Ostrom, Brock water, Savl w. Clough, Allan I. . 0 er s, awrence ' oc - H. Powell, AHison Y. Taber, John' ciety. H is . clear, however, that: stupid thing that we could do ia to,: . F· .. · ru-•\ts & Prod .. uce Cohen, Arthur E. Cohen, Jay N. land, Herbert F. Roome, Leslie E. this kind of communism is .a th!n_g fight fanatical Stalinism with an· .. · FRANK. FERRARO R d If. R. b t H R k b N. h F. Waldvogel, Frank B. Walker II, Cohn, Salvatore Colangelo, Huesten u 0 • 0 er ' · u ga er, 10 - of the past, .and that Stalinism is :equally fan.ah.'cal. \d·emocratic'' dog·. · I T S · Ed d R s Edwin E. Wheeler, Paul J. Wooqs.: Collingwood, Robert A. Conrad, 0 as · avlano, mun · aw- a very dif.fel'ent affair.,. he de-. matism of o.ur own. William s. Conway, *G'Uy F. Cooper, telle Jr., Peter Schlein, Ferdinand Louis Batkiewicz, Tom Christen- , clared, · We do not need more trust in · Bradford Coryell, Don M. Cregier. J. Schuette, Joseph G'. Schultz, .sen, Samuel W. Di Sibio, Elizabeth· He further asserted that the. :authority, more efficiel).t organiza- · Leland H. Crosby, Richard P. Donald E. Schwartz, Leonard S. Forsyth, Cha·rles J. Mastroeni, Dr. quarrel With Stalinist communism .tion from above, more readymade. Currier, Paul A. Danziger, Richard Schwartz, Norman E. Scull, Lynn Fred H. Pulver, John A. Stark- is not about the ends which it pro- 'solutions of our problems, he sai.d,i. 0. Davis, Robert F. Dibble, Stephen Shay, Caryle J. :Sherwin, Marcus L. weather, Klaus A. Toepelt, Gerard , fesses to be seeking, a more equit-. but rather more toleration of minor 1231 CRANE STREET SCHENECTADY PHON-E 6•1763 B. Dietz Jr., William E. Doll, Shoobe, Martin Siegel, Monroe H. Weinlander able .sharing of the world's goods, 'differences, more enlightened seep- Thomas F. Donlon, Vincent P. Don- Silverman, Howard A. Simons, Ste- Graduate Students but about the means of secrecy,: ticism, more self-criticism, alid• ~~::~::::~::::::::::::::~~::~ nelly, James F. Dorrill, Allan M. phen J. Simons, Richard A. Sitts, conspiracy, and violent revolution . much less greed for the fast buck,' Doyle Jr., Max P. Dreyfuss, Frank. Stanley S. Skorupski Jr., David I. John E. Fagel Jr., Gilbert H.· stemming, from the bitter -class-· which is the real Achilles ·heel of;, · •-' E. Drohan, Robert C. Duncan Jr., .Smith, Eric H. Smith, Floyd E. Holtz, Raymond J. Howe, Hubert antagonisms which it uses in try- our economic system. L G BALF. · OUR GO Leonard B. Dunn, Peter H. Ed- Snyder, George G. Souhan. J. Kei!y, (Mrs.) Celeste Prehmus, ing to attain tnem. Hence it be- . -<l 1 1 : : · 1 Inger, *Robert R. Engisch, Gerald Herbert L. Spira, Leonard A. Albin J. Rzeszotarski, Robert W. comes necessary for us t6 examine Plan to Invite HELP F t •t J I' Ente, ·*Klaus Eppler, George Van Staskelunas, James J. Stekert, Schaefer, Elizabeth E. Thornburg, the means that we ourselves use ra err.U Y ewe ers P I Earl J, Van Alstine, (Mrs.) Pei- in combatting communism. s·tu· d.ent·s· for Next Yeai' ADG . ,..., Exner, Raymond J. Fabian, au Dante Stirpe, Richard H. Stock, B . · ES • RIN\\\' _ FAVORS R. Fenwick, Laurence J. Foley, A:M;hur M. Stockman, Roger W. Ping Yen. Fanatics Intensify Struggle Plans are underway to invite at JEWELRY E Fr St J k S \'t d R' h d *Index 5.ooo LEA....,....,., GIFTS Gerald G. Foster, Edward . ee- ory, ac son · o- rou , 1c ar Dr. Larrabee stated that people least six foreign students to st-udy, . ... .. .....,...., man, Irwin Friedman, Benjamin J, Sullivan, William S. Szypula, -~- ~o-- ~- 'denounce class-war ·out of one sid'c ·at Union next year under the · STATIONERY - PROGRAMS· Furst, Joseph R. Gabriels, Albert· Eng Seng Tan, Aonthony P, Tar-. C Cl th' D • of their mouths, and intensify it 'HELP Plan, ·, CLUB PINS - KEYS J. ·Gaiietta, Paul M. Ganeles, Joseph taglia, Harry C. Thomson, Francis amp us . 0 111g riVe fvom the other. They are all fight\ Herbert Hufnagel has been • MEDALs - TROPHIES J. Gardeski, Edward P. Garner, M. Tierney, Abraham H. Topchik, To End This week ing for either labor or capital to named student chairman ilu charge' . Write· or call Rodney W. Gartner, Harry M. Geh- Thor N. Tro!sen, Alan R. Tropp, the la~>t ditch, while they are- de- of the arrangements for next year. CARL SORENSEN man Jr., Gerald G'. eismar, Rich- Louis A. Urbano, Richard L, Val- The campus clothing drive, spon- nouncing as \pinks\ those very Professor Stanley Johnson will ·be SO 111 ~ Ave. Wnterlord; N.Y. ard A. Genthner, Isak V. Gerson, ent, Jules R. Ville, Jan C. Walker, sored by the liaison committee, individuals who aze trying to aile- foreign student advisor, replacing Sigmund C. Giambruno, John E. David Walrath, Medford S. Web- will er.d this week. Collection viate the struggle by arbitration :Professor Gordon Silber, who will PHONE TROY-ADAMS: s-25:U Glennon, Avrom J. G'old, Henry ster, Daniel Weiner, John G. Weis- · boxes are in Silliman Hall. . and cooperation. go on leave. ' oldstein. Donald T. Gouger, Lawrence Greenberg, Davis W. Griffith, Rob- ert B. Grindley, Walter J. G'ruen, Oscar Grusky, William J. Gurt- shaw, Jack S. Guzelis, William P, Hall III, Charles E. Hallenbeck Jr., Leo A. Halloran Jr., Eugene Hal- pert, Donald C. Halstead, Donald J. Harris, Hubert B. Harris, Rich- ard W. Henry, Robert Herbst, Keith A. Hitchibs, Robert W. Hockenbury, Richard A. Hoffman, Walter S. Hoffman, Warren E. Hoffman, Joseph C. Honet, Robert H. Horn, Jewell W. Horning Jr., Donald M. Hoskins, Marshall N. Huberman, *Arthur T. Hutton Jr., Ronald C. Jacobs, Douglas M. Jamba, Earl W. Jennison, Ralph Jon;1s, George Jung, William Kalms III, Ivan P. Kaminow, David J. Kavee, John P. Kennedy, William C. Ketchum, Alfred H. Kingon, Jerome 0. Klein. Lewis S. Klein, *Charles F, Koch, Myron Komar, Leo Kuperschmid, Anthony E. Lang, John I. Larkin, Robert A. Laudise, Robert M. Lea, Edward L. Lee, Alfred A. Leszcyn- ski, Lawrence W. Levine, Leonard S. Levine, Richard H. Loeber, Joseph C. Loffredo, Frank E. Lord, Eliot Loshak, Thomas H. McCabe, Alfred H. McKinlay, John G. Mac Dougal, John C. Maisel, Calvin L, Malinka, George E. Markham Jr., Duncan S. Martin, Richard C. Me- chanic, Donald Meserve, Samuel Milham Jr., Frederick C. Miller, Howard C. Miller, Richard F. • Watches, Jewelry Cloe~s Repaired e Engraving, tool Jay Jewlery c~o. LEADING SELLER IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES Gfr IWTH IT {M,yr;./ THOUSANDS of students ell over the country are making this test- proving for themselves Chesterfield smells milder, smokes. milder than any other cigarette. THEY KNOW TOO •.• Chesterfield gives them more for their money ... Chesterfield leaves !19 !d.!!P..Ieasant after-~! That's right, More-for-Your-Money ••. MILDNESS~~ NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE F .I%·Et·. (:·;::: . :·:·: ' r 11 : . ' -.,:

Frosh Committee of ann01mced· the 60 prospective ilJeen. awarded to more moi'e· to its number no\v is· 169, Ten ~ull-tuition, foreign stu- er the Higher Peace pi·o~ a:lso hold from .the college, York State Retail STREET - ...... GO. -FAVORS PROGRAMS. KEYS ca:IJ terlord; N.Y. 8-2518 Prepare For Parent~ Next Weekend Vol. 78, No. 21 Instructor Listing Relations,Library, Hit at Conference. Long and heated deb:;~;te at Sunday's Tippecanoe Confer- ence, held in Hale House lounge, centered about student apathy, library hours and the Concordiensis proposal to in- clude professors' names on c0urse schedules. To Meet Twice Annually Students, faculty an.d staff taking .part in the conference voted to hold similar meetings twice annu- ally beginnin!; next year, with the agendas for the fall and spring get-togethers ,prepared jointly by all parties. ----- ------------ Rie Selected Activity Aide Herbert N. Rie, a sophomore, was appointed student assistant to the coordinator of student activi- ties by the BoarQ. of Managers Monday night.. He will assume ·the position in September. Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1951 Class- Leaders Photo by Don Harper Newly elected class o:fficex·s · are (left to right) Jay Cohn, '52, William Snyder, '53 and Anthony Tartaglia, '54. Pledges: Ordeal Almost Over PRICE 10 CENTS C·ouncil Reviews New .Constitution At. Last Meeting The new constitution of the student body of Union Col- lege was reviewed at a special meeting of the Student Council Tuesday night and turned back to the Council's constitution committee for revisions. White New Idol Editor Edwin H. White was ap- pointed editor of the Idol, and Paul P. Carbone and Alfred L. Scott were named co- editors of the Garnet at a meeting of the Publications Board yesterday afternoon. Committee Worlmd Hard The committee, headed by Eric Schmidt, has been working on the preparation of a new constitution since last year, meeting as often as two or three times a week. Much of their wo1 k consisted of studying the defects in the pres- ent constitution and examining documents in effect in other ool- leges. Student attention was fo- cused on the committee early in the year when interpretation of the poorly worded constitution re- sulted in the dismissal of James Carmichael as Council president. The problem of including profes- sors' names on course li!ltings stole the spotlight Sunday, after repre- sentatives had talked for three hours on the improvement of fac- ulty-student relations, student in- terest in activities, elimination of all exams on Greek Week, the pos- sibility of having professors sched• ule their tests well in advance, and the inadequacy of library hours. Opinions Expressed Rie will succeed George Martin, who was the first appointee to the grant-in-aid which was established 'last year. The committee on selec- tion, headed by David Platt, con- E'l t cl h T t z· sidered all members of the Sopho- . ' • .l e·C 0. . . n, ar .. ag . . f. a, more Class for the job and nar- · .JI Name Business Managers Three new business managers for college publications were also named at the meeting. Leo Kuper- schmid for the Concordiensis, Jo- seph K. Handler for the Garnet and Dwight D. Hopkins for the Idol. Shortly afterward, Carmichael and Herman Opitz were named to the committee to assist in drawing up a new set of Jaws_ Carmichael had called for a complete revision of student representation on the Council, cutting the membership to about 12 men. This idea was not incorporated in the new constitu- tion, h-owever. Many diverging opinions were expressed by all sides on the issue of choosing instructors. Most fac- ulty members went on record as favoring the plan, though the ad- rowed the choice down to Rie and John Moses on the basis of inter- s d c l H d est in student activities and capa- :ny er · ' aSS ea .P bilities for the job. t'\J Discuss Adviser Dinner ministration thought that it could The student assistar.t se1·ves as not be put into operation at this an aide to Wilford H. Ketz, co- time. President Carter Davidson·· ordinator of student activities, by suggested that students might be : investigating various activities, re- a:llowed to indicate their instructor • porting their progress and attend- preference when they prepare their ing meetings. Since it is a grant- schedules this spring. in-aid, it is also awarded on the A recommendation that the sys-. basis of financial need. tem be altered in the future so The Board of Managers alsq dis- that instructors' names appear on . cussed the plar.ned activity ad- the ,spring course schedules bas visers dinner. It was voted to hold been sent to the President. It is the dinner at Ferro's Restaurant expected that this proposal will be some time in May, the date to be presented to the Faculty Council decided on later. All recogn'ized at its next meeting. activities on campus will be invited rut Library Hourj; to send a representative and their The conference overwhelmingly faculty adviser, Expenses will be paid for out of the student activi- disapproved of present library ties fund. hours and discussed the possibility . of increasing weekend and week- night hours. Students will be ap- (Continued on Page 4) Draft Forms Ready Soon Application blank! for the na- tional aptitude examination to de· termine draft deferments are ex- pected to be available to Union stu- dents sometime next week in the Student Activities Office, Wilford H. Ketz, Coordinator of Student Activities announced to the Con- cordiensis last night. ---0·--- Students to Attend Mock State Senate Gerald Parker, George Hendon, Eugene Underwood and Eric Schmidt are representing the Stu- dent Council at the Mock State Senate, being held at the State Capitol in Albany. this weekend. Representatives from 14 area colleges are attending the sessions, in which students present bills to the group for discussion and ap- proval. Jay N. Cohn, editor of the Concordiensis, was elected presi- dent of next year's senior class in balloting held this week. Winiam J. Snyder was named president of the juniors and Anthony P. Tartaglia president of the sophomores. Poor Turnout ~--------------- Th election turnout was poor, with only 91 votes being cast .for senior president, 92 for the junior office and 87 for freshman prexy. Cohn received 31 votes, beating out his nearest opponent by eight 'llotes. The other two candidates, Reuben Johnson and John Ken- nedy, received 22 a,nd 15 ballots re- spectively. Snyder, with 39 votes, nosed out Paul P. Carbone by two votes, with William Holzapfel third. There were six candidates for .freshman presidency, Tartaglia winning with 23 votes. Others Elected Other officers elected to senior class offices were James L. Sal- erno, vice-president, Gerald D. Roberts, secretary, and Roger W. Rancher, treasurer. Elected to of- fice in the Junior class were Rich- ard S. Nemeth, vice-president, Richard v. Rapacz, secretary, and George ll1. Brooks, treasurer. Joseph C. Honet was the only candidate for the office of Sopho- more class vice-president and Peter R. Mund was in a similar position as candidate for secretary. Both candidates were elected. George M. Brooks was elected treasurer of the class. Student Council elections were held Thursday and Friday, with the polls closing this afternoon at 5 p.m. Sweezy Talks Next Week Dr. Paul Sweezy, one of the out- standing Socialist economists in the country, will ·speak in Old Chapel on Wedneeday; April 18, at 8 p.m. Two points chapel credit will be given for attendance at his lecture on \The Economics of So- cialism.\ Dr. Sweezy has written a number of important books in the field of economics. His \Theory of Capi- talist Development\ is one of the outstanding studies, in English, of Marxian Economics. He has also written a popular novel \Socialism\ explaining modern Socialist Theory. In the 30's Dr. Sweezy was one of President Franklin D. Roose- velt's young braintrusts. In 1935 and 1936 he 11erved on the National ResoUl'ces CommitteE), investigating the condition of natural resources in the Unite¢! States and ways to conserve them. White, a junior, succeeds How- ard A. Simons and James F. per- rill, who served as oo-editors dur- ing the past year, publishing one issue which arrived on campus yesterday. The new editor will try to. complete another issue by May, with the assistance of the present staff. Carbone and Scott, both sopho- mores, succeed Walter N. Stroup in the Garnet position. Carbone served last year as editor of th<. Freshman Record. Interviews Candidates The Publications Board dele- gated authority to a special com- mittee to make the final choice on the editor of next year's Freshman Record. The committee, composed of Activities Coordinator Wilford H. Ketz, Cat'bone, Stroup and Jay N. Cohn, has been interviewing freshman candidates for the job and will make its decision as soon as the group agrees on a qualified man. ---o--- Plans Made For Parents The Delphic Society, in conjunc- tion with the college administra- tion and the entire student body, is sponsoring a Parents' Weekf'nd Friday, April 20, through Sunday, April~. Revise Election Dates Presented the new docmr.ent for the first time at Tuesday's special meeting., the small group of Coun- cil rr.embers who attended bogged down on a discussion .of the first two· of the nine mimeographed pages. The lawmakers found fault with some of the changes incorpo- rated dealing with the date of an- nual electi.ons and made several other changes which the committee will includ'e in their revised edition. Lack of time prevented the Council from discussing the entire constitution, and they were no- where near the approval necessary before the constitutio•n goes to the student body. To be put into· ef- fect, it must be okayed by two- thirds of the Council and a major- ity of the student body. Recommend Quick Action Since this was the last meeting of the present Council, the job now falls into the hands of the new Council, which will hold its first meeting. next Wednesday. The re- tiring group voted to request the new Council to. allow the commit- tee to· remain intact until the new laws are approved and to place the new constitution 'up for ratification as soon as possible. In other business at the \lame duck\ sessi-c•n, the Council ap- prcved the appointrr.ent of Car- n ichael to fill a vacancy on the Tax Committee for the remainder of the year. ---o,--- FlyerS Give Arrangements are in process no-w with the local draft board to have the blanks available on this cam- pus, rather than at the draft board as was originally announced. When further Information about registra- tion is received, Ketz said he ex· pected a weekday chapel program to be available for answering any questions. Tickets for Junior Prom To Go· on Sale Monday By Marvin Kohn Richard Genthner, ticket chairman of the Junior Prom committee, announced today that the tickets for \Sans Gene,\ the Spring Prom to be held on May 4, will be on sale starting. Monday, April16. Priced at $7.20, they will be sold by re'})re- sentatives in all -the fratemity houses and dorms. In the late 1930's he assisted the work of tlie National Economic Committee. At present, Dr. Sweezy is co-editor of the Monthly Review and lndependent Socialist Monthly. Final success depends in great measure upon the cooperation of the student body. It is hoped that the students will aid in every way in carrying out the program pre- pared by the Delphics. In order to encourage student aid the Delphics have announced that a cup will be awarded to the fraternity or dormi- tory which succeeds in having the greatest percentage of parents rep- resented. Instructions The Union College Flying Club has announced that it is making a special introductory offer to all those men interested in learning how to fly. Assigned Date The application will consist of a double postcard. One half of the card will go to the Educational IFC Sing Planned ~·----~------------~----------- Testing Service iii Princeton, N.J., The Interfraternity sing has 'been and the other half will go to the tentatively scheduled to start at applicant's local board. Next to the 7:30 on the night ·O·f the prom. If three dates ·Of the exam, May 26, necessary, this time will be June 16, June 30, the student will changed to prevent any conflict list the examination center he will with the prom. The winning house ·be ciosest to. He will be assigned will r<'cei:ve a cup, and the second a date in which to take the exam and third place groups will receive and he will have no choice in the honorable mention. To be eligible, matter. A student is eligible to each fraternity must have at least take the test only once. ten men singing and are not per- The ap1Jlicant will receive a .bul- mitted any accompaniment. Each letin of information from the Edu- · g.roup must sing two sorigs, both cationa:l Testing Service giving of which may be chosen by the sample questions and the list of fraternity with the stipulation that examination centers. The exam one be· a fraternity song and the will be a three hour aptitude test other a popular or cc-llege song. given in the morning, The student . Doris Remis has again been will be finge~printed when he re- chosen as the official prom florist, ports· to the examination center. ·and corsages may be ordered The scores of the test will be . through the ticket salesmen. sent to the student's local draft board, It is unknown· whether or 'Slteller Has Records not the student will receive a copy The juke boiX in the Rathskeller of his score. Seventy is consid- has been amply supplied with re- ered passing for the exam. If a cordings made by both prom bands, (Continued on. Page 4) Larry Green and Bernie Mann. Green, voted \the most promising band of 1948\ by Andre Baruch, Bea ·Wain, Jack Eigen and Paul Brenner, four of the top disc jockeys in the country, has madl) sc.me very fine recordings for Vic- tor. An on~ th,.,se nre \Nenr You,\ \Song of New Otlenn~ ... \My Prom- ise to You,\ \Beg Your Pardon.\ and \Concerto to the Moon.\ Bernie Mann organized his or- chestra on the strength of his knowledgP of the desires of the listening public. For y!'ars he has operated night clubs, notable arr.c.ng these the fabulously suc- cessful RiviE'l'a at Manhasset, Long Island. With his knowledge of the public's tastes, and the fact that he has also worked with a number .of top bands, including Russ Mor- gan, Mal Hallett, Rudy Vallee and Ben Bernie, there should be no doubt in anyone's mind that any cc·mbiilation that he could put to- gether will be very Well accepted at the prom. Davidsons to Give Tea Familiarization flights, of one half hour duration, have been ar- The weekend program will be ranged in an endeavor to acquaint highlighted by a tea to be given by the students with club activities. President and Mrs. Carter David- In their newly purrhasf'd Aeronca Psi Upsilon, taking the affirma- son at West College dormitory. trainer, f'xtremely nominal rates tive on the topic, \Resolved: The ·Other activities include classroom. are .. xtended to any member desir- United States Should Have Com- studf'nt activity, and dormitory ing flight instruction. A.R.O.T.C. pulsory Health Insurance,\ defeat- I visits; a rf'\'iE'w hy thf' collegf' Air men should tal{e advantage of this ed Kappa Alpha in the finals, to I Fore(> ROTC unit: a varsity trark pro~ram a>: it will Pnable them to win the Intramural Debate con-I meet; a frf'~hmnn lncrM~e match: learn the rudirrents d flying be- test for 1951, sponsored by the. the Mountf'h~nks production of fore the ne.wly proposed A.R.O.T.C. Philomathean Society. \The Glass Menagerie\; and an flyin~ program is instituted at Psi U's Win Intra Debate • Union. The winning team of William organ recital by Dr. Elmer A. T 'd h Plans are materializing· for a Conway and Wilfried Hoffii)an de- 1 mars . group flight to Cape Cod in early feated all their opponents in the ---· -o May in order to participate in the preliminaries and semi-finals, held Klemm Appointed Harvard Flying M€><'t. .several the week of April 2nd. The finals more such flights are being antici- were held Monday afternoon in the Department He d pated in the future t.o. add to their English reading room, where Pro- a acth·ities. feasor Carl Niemeyer, of the Eng- Dr. Frederick A. Klemm, associ- A letter has bt>en sent to the stu- lish department, actE).(J. as judge. ' ate professor of German, will be dents explaining in more detail .1 ·• ~:!~!ag~haJ~:a~~m~!t t~~ri:;d~~~ ~~i~hno~:' ~~f~~!st~%i~~ 11 ~J;i:Oi::d Quazy Quote sabbatical leave of Professor Gar- taking advantage of this excep- don R. Silber, foQ>r the academic tiona! offer are invited to attend year of 1951-52, it was announced' the next meeting of the Flying It's a great life if your don'ts this week by President Carter Club. Monday evening, April 16, at weaken. -Waltel' Winchell Davidson. · 7:30 in C.E. Room 309.

Frosh Cemmittee of the 60 prospective •been awarded to mere mere larships ta its number new is 169. Ten re full-tuitian, foreign stu- the Higher Peace pro- n ts -alsa hold from the college, York State Retail STREET 00. -FAVORS y KEYS NSEN N.Y. 8-2ll2S Co. I I I Prepare For Parents Next Weekend Vol. 78, No. 21 Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRiiDAY, APRIL 13, 1951 Pledges: Ordeal Almost Over PRICE lD CENTS Instructor Listingl Relations, Library Hit at Conference Class Leaders I Council Reviews New .Constitution ,At Last Meeting I The ne\Y tuii;:-;titution of the student IJOcly of lJnion Col- . lege wus reviewed at a :<!Jl'l'i<tllllel'ling of the Student Council Long and heuted delJate at Sunch<.(s Tippecanoe Confer- I ence, held in llale House lounge, centered about student apathy, library hours and the Concordiensis propo~al to in- clude professors' names on course schedules. Tue:sday night und turned hac.:k tu the Ctnmcil's constitution committee fur re\·isiuns. Comn.ittee \\'m•ked Hard To Meet Twice AnnuaUy Students, faculty and staff taking i R., part in the conference voted to i 1 e hold simi-lar meetings twice annu- , Selected White N 1 The comn'ittc>e, herrded by Eric ew ~l'lm idt, has b1·en '~o1·kin~; on the pn'paration of \ n<'W constitution ;;inc.· la>t year, m•·eting as often as two or thrcP times a W('ek. ally beginning next year, with ~he A' t· e 0 t Alo de agendas fm the fall and sprmg C } VI Y get-togethers prepared jointly by :\!uch of tlwir w '\ k l'unsi~ted of studying th•· dl'f<>cts in the pres- ' .· , . , .. . i l'nt cunstitution rrnd t':xamining Idol Eclitor all parties. The problem of including profes- sors' names on comse listings stole I the spotlight Sunday, after repre- sentatives had talked for three hours on the improvement of fac- ulty-student relations, student in- terest in activities, elimination of all exams on Greek Week, the pos- sibility of having professors sched- ule their tests well in advance, and the inadequacy of library hours. Herbel t N Rit·, a sophomore, was appointed stud .. nt a~,;istant to tlw comdina.t:rr of ,;tud .. nt aC\tivi- tll·s by the Board of :\1anage 1 s Monday night. ll\ will asSUllle the position in ~<·ptembN. Photo by Don Harper :>:Pwly eh't'{l'd dass officPrs are (left to Iight) ,Jay Cnhn, '52, \\'illiam Sn;\'der, '53 and Anthony Tnrtag·lin, '54. EU\\111 II. \\hill' \\dS ap- dul'Ull.t·nts in dfect in other ool- puinted editor uf the l<lul, and· kg• s. Student attPntion was fa- Paul P. Carbone and .-\lfJ·ed cus.·d on the committee early in 1. ~cott \\'C'l'C ll:li11C'd co- the year w ho·n intPrpn·tation of tll•· poorly v.utdu.l t:un,titutieon re- editurs uf the Garnet at a· ~ult•·d in the dbn is;;al of Jarres meeting of the Publications I Carmichael as Council president. Opinions Expt·essed Many diverging opinions were expressed by all sides on the issue of choosing instructors. Most fac- ulty members went on record as favoring the plan, though the ad- ministration thought that it could not be put into operation at this time. President Carter Davidson suggested that students might be allowed to indicate their instructor preference when they prepare their schedules this spring. A recommendation that the sys- tem be altet,ed in the future so that instructors' names appear on the spring course schedules has been sent to the President. It is ex:pected that this proposal will be presented to the Faculty Council at its next meeting. Hit Library Hilurs The conference overwhelmingly disapproved of .present library hours and discussed the possibility of increasing weekend and week- night hours. Students will be ap- (Continued on Page 4) 0 Draft Forms Ready Soon Application blanke for the na- tional aptitude examination to de- termine draft deferments are ex- pected to be available to Union stu- dents sometime next week in the Student Activities Office. Wilford H. Ketz, Coordinator of Student Activities announced to the Con- cordiensis last night. Arrangements are in process now with the local draft board to have the blanks available on this cam- pus, rather than at the draft board as was originally announced. When further information about registra- tion is received, Ketz said he ex- pected a weekday chapel program to be available for answering any questions. Assigned Date Rie will suce.·ed Geot·ge !\1artir., who v,·as the fin;t appointcC' to the grant-in-aid which was e8tablishl'd last year. The comn~ it tee on selec- tion, headed by David Platt, con- sidered all membct·s of the Sopho- mot·e Class for the job and r.ai·- rowed the choice down to Rie and John Moses on the basis of int,•r- est in student activities and capa- bilities for the job. Discuss Advisrr Dilm<'I' The student assistar.t sNves as an aide to 'Vilfot·d !-1. KPtZ. co- ol dinatur of student activitiC'S, by investigating various aC'tiviti\\· n•- porting their progress and attend- ing me .. tings. Since it is a grant- in-aid, it is also awarded on the basis of financial need. The Board of Managers also dis- cussed the plar.nC'd. activity ad- visers dinner. lt v. as voted to hold the dinner at Ferro's R!'staurant some time in May, the date to be decided un later. All 1 cC'ognizcd activities on campus will be invite>d to SC'nd a representative and their faculty adviser. Expense's v. ill bC' paid for out of the student activi- ties fund. ----o---- Students to Attend Mock State Senate ' Elect Cohn, Tartaglia, Snyder Class Heads Jay N. Cohn, editor of the Concordiensi~. was elected presi- dent of next year's senior class in balloting- held this week. William J. Snyde1· \Vas named president of the juniors and Anthony P. Ta1·taglia president of the sophomores. Poor TUI'IlOUt Th plection tUI nout was pOOl'.' l\L Broo]{s was elected tren.surer of with only 91 votE's bPing cast for the class. sPnior pre\ident. 92 for the junior StudE>nt Council elections wPr<' office and 87 for freshman prexy. held Thursday and' Friday, with Cohn r<·Cl'iYPd 31 votes, beating out the polls closing this afternoon at --~-o--- his nearest oppmwnt by Pi~ ht 5 p.m. votes. ThP other two candidates, R£>UbPn Johnson and John KPn- Sweezy Talks Next Week nedy, recei\'C'Ii 22 and 15 ballots re- spectiv<'ly. Boanl vestel'da v afternoon. Shortly afterward, Carmichael • • and Herman Opitz werp narred to :\'oiame I~usinE>ss :\lanUJl'<>l's th<' committee to assist in di awing Three new bu,in~ss nmnael'!·s fur up a ne\\· se>t of laws. Carmichael colleg•· publications WPI c also had called for a cc.mpletP revision ramPd at the nweting. Leo Kupo•r- of student r<'pn•sentation on the schn.id for tlw Cuncordi<>nsis, Jo. Council. cutting thP membership to sC'ph K. Handler fo1· the Garnet about 12 men. This idea was not and Dwight D. Hopkin~ for thP incorpora-ted in the new· constitu- Idol. tion. how ever. \\'hite. a junior. sUCCf'l'<is How- RrvisP El!'dion Dates ard A. Simons and James F. Du1- Presented the ne\v docurr ent for rill, who SI'IYeli as Go-editors dut- the first tirr.e at Tuesday's special ing the past yea I, publishing on.· n~eeting, the srr.all group of Coun- issuc> ·which aiTi\'t·d on campu>' cil n embers who attended bogged yestetda~· The n•·w Pditor will try duv.n on a discus;;ion of the first to. compll'l<' anoth<•r iRsue by !\lay, two of the nine mimeographed with the assistance of thL' prc·sc·nt pag<'s. The lawmal<ers found fault staff. wHh some of the changes incorpo- Carbone and Scott. both sopho- 1 ;J.tt·d dealing \\it h the date of an- morP~. succeed \Valter ::-;-, Stroup nun! electk-ns and made several Ir. the Gal net po:;it ion. Cal !June otlwr ehanges which the committee sel\·ed last yt•ar· as <·ditor of th• ''ill include in their revised edition. Fn•shman R•·rord. Lack of titr.c prevented the IntPt'viPws CandidatPs Couneil from discussing the entire SnydPr, with 39 votes, nosC'd out Paul P. Carbor.e by two votes, with William Holmpfpl third. There were six c-andidatl'e fnr frC'shman presidency, Tartaglia winning with 23 vote~. Tho Publication\ Board delP- constitution, and they were no- gatE>d authol'ity to a special com- wher!' near the approval necessary mittee to make thP finn.! choicro on before th<> constitution goes to the the editor nf n,.xt YNJ.r'\ FrPshmrm stud<·nt body. To be put into- ef- Record. The committee, compos••d feet. it rr.ust be okayed by t\\O- Dr. Paul Sweezy, one of the out- of Activities Coordinator Wilford thirds of the Council and a major- standing Socialist economists in H. Ketz, Cai bon<'. Stroup and Jay ity of the student body. the country, will spealt in Old N. Cohn, has hPen interviewing RE'comm<>nd Quiclt Action Others El<><'ted Chapel on Wednesday,' April 18, at freshman cn.ndidat .. s for thP job Since this was the last meeting 8 p.m. Two points chapel credit and will mal<e its decision as soon of the present c,.uncil, the job now will be given for attendance at his a~ thC' group agTe•·s on a qualified fall:-; into the hands of the new lecture on \The Economics of So- man. Council. which will hold its first Other officPrs elected to senior class officPs WPl'<' James L. Sal- erno, vice-presid£>nt, Grorald D. Robct·ts, secretary, and Roger W. Gerald Pn.rkE>I', George Hendon. Rancher, trE'aSlll'<'l'. EJect£>d to of- Eugene Underwood and Eric ficc in the Junior class were Rich- Schmidt are t<'Pl'I'Senting the Stu- atd s. :\'emeth, vice-p1·esident. dent Council at th(' Mock State Richard v. Rapacz. secrPtary, and Senate, being hPld at th<' Stat!' G<>orge ::\1. Brooks, trrasllr!'l'. Capitol in Albany. this weekend. 1 Joseph C. Hunet was thP only R!'presc>ntat!VPS from 14 area· candidate for thP office of Sopho- colleges ar<> attending thl' S('Ssions,lmore class vice.-presi~eri.t ar.d ~e~Pr in which studl'nts present bills to l R. Mund was rn a srm!lar posrtJ.on the group for discussion and ap- as c-andidate for spcretary. Both pro val. candidat<>s wl'l'e electl'd. GeOI gr cialism.\ 0 meC'tin~ nC'xt Wednesday. The re- Dr. Sweezy has written a number PI M d tiring group vot<>d to request the of important books in the field of ans . a e n1•w Council to. allow the commit- economics. His \Theory of Capi- 1 t,,,. 1-. remain intact until the new talist Development\ is one of the F p t \lav.s nre approved and to place the outstanding studies, in English, of or are'~'l s new ('On;;titution 'UP for ratification Marxian Economics. He has also ..1!. -~~ soon as possible. written a popular novel \Socialism\ ThP Delphic Society. in conjunc- In .. \ 1 hrr _hu\iness al the \lame explaining modern Socialist Theory. tion with th<> college administ ra- du<·k \''SSIC•n t.he Council a p- In the 30's Dr. Sweezy was one tion and the entire student bodv, is 1\.' wd th<' ~ppmntrr.,nt of Car- of President Franklin D. Roose- sponsoring a Parl'nts' \VC'ekl'nd \ '\hnel to. fill a vacancy on. the velt's young braintrusts. In 1935 Friday April 20 through Sunday Tnx Committe<' for the remamder and 1936 he served on the National April Z2. ' ' of the year. Tl •ckets for Junior p··· . rom Resources Committee, investigating Final success de.pends in great - -=o--·-- «.o the condition of natural resources I measll! c upon the coopt> ration of Flyers Gl' ve G · s l M d in the United States and ways to the student body. It is hoped that To 0 O n a e on ay conserve them. the students will aid in evc>ry way I . . In the late 1930's he assisted the I in carrying out the program pre- nstru ctiOllS By Marvin Kohn work of the National Economic pared by the Delphics. In order to ~omm:it~ee. At present, Dr. Swe_ezy 1 encourage student aid the Delphics The L'nion College Flying Club Richard Genthnel', ticket chairman of the Junior Prom Is co-ed1tor of the Monthly Revl(>w ·have announced that a cup \\'ill be has announced that it is making a committee, announced today that the tickets for \Sans Gene,\ and Independent Socialist l\1onthly. I awarded to the fraternity or durmi- special introductory offer to all the Spring Pt•om to be held on :i.\lay 4, will be on sale starting o tory which succeeds in ha\'ing lhe those rren interest£>d in learning The application will consist of a double postcard. One half of the card will go to the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, N.J., and the other half will go to the applicant's local board. Ne:xt to the three dates of the exam, May 26, June 16, June 30, the student will list the examination cen tcr he will be closest to. He will be assigned a date in which to take the exam and he will have no choice in the matter. A student is eligible to take the test only once. The applicant will receive a bul- letin of information from the Edu- cational Testing Service giving sample questions and the list of examination centers. The exam will be a three hour aptitude test given in the morning. The student will be fingerprinted when he re- ports to the examination center. Monday, Aprill6. Priced at $7.20, they \Vill be sold by repre- p . U' w· ;~:eantetestd.percentage of parents rep- how to fly. Sl S ln Familiarization flights, of one sentatives in ali the fraternity hoUSeS and dorms. Da\·idsons to Gi\·e Tea half hour duration, haw he<>n ar- IFC Sing Planned ~~ I t D b t The weekend program will be rang-Pd in an endPavor to acquaint The Interfraternity sing has ·bcPn Green. -·otPd \thP most promismg n ra e a e high~ighted by a tea to he giHn by the students with club activities. t!'ntatively scheduled to start at band of 194R\ by Andre Baruch, I Presrdent and Mrs. CartPr David- In t.hdr nev. I~· purrhns••d Aeronca 7:30 on the nig-ht c·f the prom. If BPa Wain. Jn.rk Eigen and Paul Psi Upsilon, taking the affirma- son at WPet CollPg-e dormitory. trainf'r, <'xtrPmclv nominal rates necessai v, this time \ill be Brenner, fcur of the top disc tive on the topic, \Resolved: The I Other activiti\\ inC'lud<> C']a~sroom. at·•· extend .. <! to a ~w men· ber desir- changed · to prevent any conflict juclwys in the country. has mrHl!, Vnited Stat<'f; Should Have Com- . studrnt activit\•. and <lormitnrv ing flight inst ruct.ion. A.R.O.T.C. with th<' prom. The winning house\ SL•nlt' \'Pry fin\ n'cnn!ings for ViP- pulsnry Health Insurance,\ dl'feat- 1 visits: a rPvi<>w. h~· thro cnll!'!.!f' 1\.i.r n \ 11 'hould take mlvnntnge of this will rPcPivr a C'Up, an<l til£' ~el'ond tor. Atr one; th··~·· nr<' \:-.;Prn You.\ Pd Kappa Alpha in the finals, to 1 For<'<' ROTC' unit: r1 \'nrsitV tnwk l''\!.!ran' ns it v.ill <'nable them to and third pia<'<> group\ v.ill receiw 1 \Sung of ::-;-l'\\ O:lean<' \:.\[~· Pron'.: win the Intramural DPhrrte con- 1 nwd: n frt'shman l:rC'm~~P mntf'll: ]t>;,rn the ltl!Jin·Pnts <·f flying b<>- honorable rr.ention. To be ellgibiL', be to y,.u,\ \Bq.: Yom \~r<lon. \test for 1951, sponsored by the \thP :-.rount<'hnnks produrtion of fote the nl·v.Iy I•ropo;ed AR.O.T.C. each fraternity must have at least and \Concerto to the Moon. Philomathean Society. \The Glass Menageric\: and an flying prugram is instituted at ten men singing a.nd arc not per- Bernie Mann organized his o;- The winning team of William organ recitn.l hy Dr. Elmer A. Union. mitted any accc•mpanirr:ent. Each chestra on th£' Rtr!'n~th of hiS Con\\'ay and \Vilfried Hoffman de- Tidmarsh. Plans arc materializing for a [!roup rr.ust sing two songs, both I ~now~Pdg\ of. the ~<'~Ires cf th£' \ feated all their opponents in the --- --o--~- gt oup flight 1.o CapP Cod in early The scores of the test will be sent to the student's local draft board. It is unknown whether or not the student will receive a copy of his score. Seventy is consid- ered passing for the exam. If a (Continued on Page 4) of which may be chosen by the hst<'nmg pub hr. FOJ 'Pars h<' has 1 . . . d . f' 1 h 11 Kl A o t d :\'lay in order to pn.rtiC'ipate in the . . I . . .b t hl pre Inunanes an semi· maS, e ( emm ppoln e II r\\ll 1 Fl 'n•• '[h t \A''\ ~] fratemity v;ith the stipulatiOn 1.hat I op<'rale<l mght clu \'· n.o n P the week of April 2nd. The finals I a • ., YI ,.., ·' ,.o . ..,,. rn one be a fraternity song nnd the I nrrrm~ t~e;P th<' fahulonsl~ sue- were held Monda~· afternoon in thP I D t t H d more sueh flights are being antici- other a popular 01 C{>llege song. I Cf'ssful RI\'IPJ\a nt Mnnhnsflf't, Long E 1' h d' oJ ·h p - epar men . oa pntPd in the fut-ure It· nrlcl to thPil' . . . Island. With his knowkdge of the ng rs rea II_J-g room, w ere ro ~ adivith·s. Dons RemiS ~1~s agam b~cn public's tnste• an<l thro fact that fcssor Carl N1emeyer, of the Eng- Dr. Fredericlt A. Kletr.n', aRsOC'i- A lPtt<'r hns bP<'n sent to the stu- chosen as the official prom flonst, he has al~o ,,:~rk<'d with a number !ish department, acted as judge. ate professor of German, VI ill be d(>nts <'xplaining in moH' detail and corsages. rr.ay be ordered of top bands, including Russ Mar- acting chairman of the modern their new spring training program. through the ticket salesmen. gan, Ma.J Hallett, Rudy Vallee and langua!4e department during the All those int!'rested in flying and 'Siteller Has Records Ben Bernie, there should be no Quazy Quote sabbatical leave of Professor Gar- taking ndvantag.e of this excep- The juke b{]•X in the Rathskeller doubt in anyone's !l\ind that any don R. Silber, f.c·r the academic tiona! offer are invited to attend has been amply supplied with re- ccmbination that he could put to- year of 1951-52, it was announced\ the next meeting of the Flying cordings made by both prom bands, gether will be very well accepted It's a great life if your don'ts this. week by President Carter Club . ::\!ondny evening, April 16, at Larry Green and Bernie Mann. at the prom. wealmn. -Walter Winchell DavJdson. 7:30 m C.E. Room 309.

2 <!.tnurnr MAmber Assorlated Col- le~lah> Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. Nat!ona·l Adver- tising Representative: Na.-. tiona! Advertising Serv!re, InP., College Publishers RPpre\IO'ntative. 420 Mndi- enn A\·e., N. Y. C., Pub- l!she><l every Friday or the ~(·hooJ year. \ ' llldltorlal Ottlce, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication· Oftlce. The Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription lOc a copy: $3 year dell vered . any- where In the United States. SENIOR BOARD JAY N. COHN '52 , .......... , .......... , ............... Editor-In-Chief MARTIN SIEGEL '51 .................... , ........... Associate Editor DONAL[) E. SCHWARTZ '52 .......................... Managing Editor \VILI.ARD G TAYLOR '5~ ............................... News Editor JEROME GA!t1'NER '52 .................................... page Editor MARVIN L J{OHN '63 ................................... Page Editor JOII:>: J. CASSIDY '53 .................................. Sports Editor ROBERT C. S~tl1'H '52 . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . • .. . . . .. . . . . .. . Feature Editor ALAN K. RADACK '52 ............................. Business Manager ROBERT B. GRI:-.:IJLEY '51 ........•..•...••.... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD ARTHUR ~!. STGCKMA:--1 '52 ............................. Copy Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 ................. Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE W. LEVI:-.:E '53 ........................ Exchange Editor JOSEPH K. I!ANDI.ER '5~ .............•. Assistant Business Manager LEO KUPPER~CH~1ID ·5~ .. .. .. .. .. .... Assistant Business Manager GEORGE P. REDI:-.:GTo:-; ':i2 .....•.... Assistant Circulation ::\Tanager FEATURE STAFF Thomas Donlon, Peter l•'yfe, Alfred Kingon, Myron Komar, John l\lose•, Robert l\1urray. REPORTERS Irwin Barg, Philip !3euth, Alfred Gold berger, :1.1artin Gordon, Herbert Jfillc·r, Wolcott Hubbell. Lewi' Klein, Jerome Kleitl, William MohJ·- mann·, ~lnrtin Portnoy, l>a\'ill SmUh, llerhel't Spira, Kenneth Coryell, Lla Yi<l I~ro\t· Leona rei Levine. PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF Aloo Fornut.n, John Stebbins, Fram~ Sltutsch. BUI'INESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Jame\ D\Sorbo Charles Little, Gerald Robert, Robert Si!Yerman, Ueor·ge \Vrubel. CIROUJ,ATION STAFF Rol•ert Strand, Horace Van Voast, George Putman, Curtis BateH, David Stf'ffanha!l'en, Culver Hayes, J. Lowell Davis, William Winchester, Joseph Martin, Robert Seydol. Integration Study We a1·e glad to hear that the college's integration pro- gram is under intensive study. It certainly needs it. The basis of an integration program in colleges is cer- tainly a fine one. As Union's special faculty committee has reported, \ ... in too many cases the Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees represent a collection of dispa- rate courses amounting to only the required semester hours for graduation ... \ Although the idea behind initiating \starred\ courses was good, the plan at Union has suffered from Jack of administrative study and generally misunder- standing. Too many students have been required to take courses which did not fit into their academic plans ·and which, in the long run, integrated no better than other courses in the di- vision. Lack of thorough understanding on the part of fac- ulty adviRers aiRo confused students as to what they could and could not schedule. But now a grant from the Carnegie Corporation has made possible something which should have been undertaken before the program was ever introduced-a study of Union's program and those of other colleges with a goal of entirely revising the system to better fulfill its objectives. We hope that the study, which is planned for a five-year period, will result in a highly successful integration program, offering the students new, enlig·htened courses which, in the words of the committee, will \make manifest the inner unity of their educational expe1·ience and its deep relevance to real life.'' The Voters That Weren't It is customary at this time of the year to congratulate the voters and/or the new class officers. For obvious per- sonal rea~ons, we \Viii do neithe1·. Instead, we will engage in our usual favorite pastime of rhastising the students. It is a source of great wonderment to us why, in a small colleg-e like L'nion where everyone knows everyone else, the students will not turn out 100 per-cent to cast thir votes in Spring elections. In Tuesday's meager elections, which were publicized for a full week, not as many as one hundred men voted in any one class. 1\Iost non-voters toss off the elections with a \it doesn't matter\ atttiude. But even if they think it doesn't matter to them, they should remember it is of vital importance to their friends and classmates who are involved. And students who think they are not voting had better revise their thoughts, for by failing to go to the polls they are most assuredly casting- a ballot for clique rule and tin- representative student government. Make Plans Early The Spring prom is only three weeks off. The Junior Prom committee has signed two bands to provide continuous music, and from what we have heard of Larry Green and Bernie Mann, they will put on a show that will not soon he forgotten. The presence of danceable music, which both bands feature, is always attractive at Union formals. The weel{end needs only nice weather to complete the full program, which includes a four-sport variety of athletic events, the IFC Sing, parties, picnics and hell-razing-. Spring weekends are always the biggest at Union. Let's make this not only the biggest social event of the year but the biggest of all time. The more the merrier. Placement News APRIL 16--S. S. Kresge Co.<$1-------------- Group Meeting 8:00 a.m.. Old Chapel, S. S. Kresge Co. interviews. Automobile Mutual Insurance Co. APRIL 17-Allied Stores Corp. Group Meeting E.E. Bldg., Rm. 22 8:00 p.m., Allied Stores Corp. inte>r- views. Connf'cticut General Lif~ Insur- ance Co. Group :Meeting 4:30 p.m. Old Chapel. · APRIL 18-Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. interviews. Naval Research Laboratores Group Meeting to be announced. Naval Research Laboratories of West Coast interviews. APRIL 19-Boy Scouts of Am- erica interviews. tual Life Insurance Co. interviews. ''Did'ja ever have one of those days when you couldn't get anything right?\ Glee Club, Chorus Concert Called \Pleasant Evening\ By P. Dyckeman Fyfe Last Tuesday night the Schenectady Wom-en's Chorus and the Union College Glee Oub presented a joint concert in Memorial hapel which, from the size and ~pplause of the audience, must be accounted at least a popular success. Although both organizations are~ . under the direction of Mr. Robert Glee Club next ..asc~nded the plat- Campbell, in the opinion of this f?rm a:nd san? lushly and for the reviewer, while the Women's Chorus first tim? wtti;t a semblanc;, _o~ has definitely improved over its pleasure m their work, four hit debut last year there has appeared musical tunes of the recent past of no such chang~ for the better thus of whic~ \There Is Nothing ~ike far in the College group. a Dame was well enough rece1ved 'S C d to require an encore. Sandwiched THE WOME~ horus opene in between Debussey and Bach, it the progr~m With ':hat has come was a relief even to those who to be typical fare 1 ~ concerts . of prefer their programs Jess mixed. this kind: four Enghsh an~ _Irish THE FINAL performance. of the songs, more or less tradthonal. evening was the Cantata number Speaking generally, they were well four of Bach \Christ Lay in the fitted to the abilities of the group, Bonds of De~th \ which is almost though better enunciation might unique in bein~ scored only for have been hoped for by one un- chorus and instrumental accom- familiar with the texts. paniment. Since this was the joint The second group, except for effort of both groups, we had the Vittoio's \Ave Maria,'' which was pleasure of hearing a full chorus new to the repertoire and the best perform very creditably a moving single performance of the evening but not exuberant work. In seven by either group, could have been verses with the clubs alternating part of any program in the last and joining, the third verse was, three years we remember hearing. whether due to Bach or his in- So perhaps we may be pardoned terpretors, the high point of the for expecting a more vigorous cantata and perhaps even the eve- rendering of \Now Let Every ning. Mrs. Christine Hope and Mr. Tongue Adore Thee\ and \Thanks Duncan Trotter Gillespie performed Be to Thee.\ Malotte's setting of a difficult and melodic accompani- the \Lord's Prayer\ closed this ment in a most pleasurab,le man- section. ner. CLAUDE Debussey's \The Bless- Viewed as a whole, it was a ed Damozel\ was saved from being pleasant but not outstanding eve- completely soporific by the talent- ning. Perhaps we have come to ed if earnest efforts of the Mes- expect too mUch on the basis of dames Tillman and Fry, whose other concerts. Mr. Campbell con- singing of the solo parts was far ducted vigeirously, but seemed to more interesting than the work it- have trouble making the groups self. come to life or feel the music as Seemingly to atone, the Union undoubtedly he did. For Your Information ~~----~~------------------- SATURDAY, APR. 1hFree. SUNDAY, APR. 15--Sunday. serv- ice, preacher, The Rev. Larmon Sherwood '34 {blind preacher), MC, 11 a.m. MC, 8 p.m., 2 points credit, Lisa Sergio, authority on International affairs, \A World's Eye View of Ourselves\; AIEE {Schenectady Chapter), EE-22, 8 p.m. THURSDAY, APR. 19-Daily as- sembly; Prof. John B. Henderson, MC, noon·; Fraternity Night; American· Society of Mech. Engr., EE-22, 8 p.m. MON':DAY, APR. 16 - DIPLOMA REGISTRATION FEE PAYABLE DURING TIDS WEEK. All sen- iors, Business Office, Room 3, Adm. Bldg.; Daily assembly, speak- er Prof. Cecil A. Byers, MC, noon; Concordiensis staff meeting, Wash- burn Hall, 1 p.m.; Mountebanks FRIDAY, APR. 20-Daily assem- M · oc 4 30 7· d 9 pm bly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; ovte, ' : ' an . ., t I b M t \Tilly~s Punctured Romance\ with Facul Y Woman's C u • oun e- Charlie Chaplain and Marie Dres- b11.nks Theater, 3 p.m., followed by sler, 25 cents; Alpha Phi Omega, tea at Mrs. Ketz's; Thursday Mu- s -11- Hall 8 sica! Club, MC, 8:30 p.m., Gloria 1 Imon • p.m. Perkins, violinist, tickets $1.20 and TUESD.AY, APR. 17-Daily Assem- $1.80. bly, speaker, Prof. Bertrand Wain- SATURDAY, APR. 12--F'MENTS' ger, \Sinclair Lewis\ III, MC, noon; French Club, Silliman Hall, 7 p.m.; WEEK;_ENj}. 842 noon, Welcome Student Council, oc, 7:30 p.m.; and registration i'n Hale House; Schenectady Chora,l Society, MC, Visits to classes and all student 8:15 p.m. (All students invited activity offices; Luncheon optional at College or in town; 1:30-2 p.m. without charge.)· AROTC review, Library field; 2:30 Wll)DNESDAY, APR. 18--Eucha-- p.m. Varsity track, Unio~;~ vs. rist (Episcop~;tl service), MC, 7. Rochester on Alexander Field; a.m.; Voluntary Service of Wor- Freshman LaCros§e, Union vs. Wil- ship, Silliman )1all; 12 noon, \Chris Iiams, Libra>Y Field; Spring foot- tianity in :Oaily Life-,...;Love One ball practice, :Paley Field; 4-5:30 Another,\ The Rev. Robt. ·S. Hoag- p,~ .• Pr$st<l~nt:'s, te~.,:west College; land, All Souls ;Unitarian ChUrch; Dlnneii, option of parents; 8:80p.m. Varsity lacrosse; Union· vs.' Corhell, :nd:ountebanks production, \The Library ltield, 3:30 p.m.; Economics Glass Menagerie,\ Mountebanks· Club, oc; 8 p.m., speaker, Dr. P&ul theater {doors op.en .. , at 8 p.tn.); Swee)ly,, fOr!UerJ.y of. Harvard. U11i• y'>a.rsity baseball, trni!)Il. vs. ayra- versity<; COLLEGE LECTURE, cuse ,l,l,~:SY.l'acU~.~r. ~:~0. ;p.m~ . FRIDAY, APRil. U. 1951 theater whirled Musical Play Has .Arrived·. by dcltard g. heimann At one not so distant time all that was n.eeded to sell a musical was one big ·scantily dressed j)eauties, !lnd a score that shut- tled between Vic- torian sentiment\ ality and Tobacco Road realism. Fortunately, the heyday of t:his type revue has passed. As evidence, wit- ness the top box office and cesses since 1943. glance would reveal \Oltlahoina!\, ''Carousel,\ \Finian's Rain•bo:w,\ \Brigadoon \Annie Get Your Gun,\ \Kiss Me,. Kate,\ and \South Pacific.\ What ma:kes these shows different, and ,superior, I .feel, from the previously prevelant type musical .Is their capacity to stand up as plays as well .as musicals. Tlw most startling achievement lies in the fact that no longe·r can a musical expect a decent ri.J.n if it is merely an excuse to put over a few good songs. Good design, good costuming, good direction and the demand that performar~ be versatile actors as well ·as accom- plished singers are all prerequisites for a successful musical. In other words, the musical play, as op- posed to the musical revue, has come to fore, Even the Met has adopted a plan for more polished theater. Rudolph Bing, since his inauguration last year, has changed the House. from the home ·of merely classical ·opera to the center of a popular con- ception of grand opera, importing scene designers, actors, directors, and costumers to supplement .his great voices. Don't get the idea, )i.owever, that this trend was born in the '40's. \Showboat the wotk of Edna Fer- ber, 3ev()me Kern, and Oscar Ha,m- merstein 2nd, was produ.ce·d in 19'26. \Of Thee I Sing,'' the double Gershwin bilJ. and: \Pal Joey,\ .fhe top Rodgerlil and Hart proquctron, all were produced more than a decade ago. One of the .principle catalytic agents involved in the growth of the musical pl<J.y is the team of Richard Rodgers and Os.car Ham- merstein 2nd. This. duo has al- ready given to Broadway \Ok- lahoma!,\ \Carouse'l;\ \Allegro \So11th ·Pacific,\ and most recently, \The. King :and I.\ Their shows have been of a uniformly superior quality, placing almost equal em- p-hasis on book as well as music. Their most recent effort has used Rodgers' mu~;i~ to enhance and supplement what has been called Hammer.stei!l's greatest bo.o'k. The season of 1950-51 has fur- ther established the substantial musica:I with the appearance of \Guys . and Dolls\ and \The King and I.\ Their success insures Broadway of a better quality musi- cal entertainment which, .although it had a long pre natal develop- ment, has finally come to bud. Letter to the Editor Gentlemen: There is an interesting resem- blance between the recent \firing\ of General Douglas MacArthur from his Far Eastern command and the removal of the Roman general Lucius Licinius Lucullus from a similar position in the Near East in 67 B.C. The similarities· between the two men and the occasions for their dismissal are numerous. Both were political conservatives with long and distinguished military careers who occasionally dabbled in parti- san politics and tended to interpret their delegated authority very liberally. Both were \proconsul!!\ over occupied territory and admin- istered broad reforms to the con- quer.ed peoples in the political and economic spheres which made ene- mies in certain high quarters. Both had not suffered sever·e military de- feat until very near the last, and their removal In both cases was for other than primarily military rea- sons. After serving as a Roman officer in many parts of the known world, Lucullus was assigned to the com- mand of the allied forces, mostly Roman, operating against the then would-be world conquerer, Mithra- dates VI of Pontus. At first Lucul- lus left military affairs in · the hands of his lieutenants while he attended to administrative matters. After his offer to meet and negoti- ate a. truce with Mithradate's son- in-law and ally, Tigranes ·of Ar- menia, was rejected by the latter, Lucullus took over the field com- mand himself, crossed 'the Eu- phrates, and delivered a crushing blow to Tigranes's forces, which promptly collapsed and fled In dis· order. Lucullus advanced and pre- pared to winter. in the rich lands along the Tigris_ Mithradates, however, threw in another army, much larger than FRANK FERRA~O Wholesale & Retail Fruits & Produce 1231 CRANE STREET SCHENECTADY PHONE 6·1763 ..... ,.. J ........ ......... \\ ... \\V' L. G. BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGBS - lUNGe - FAV()B8 JEW1!ll..BY LEATHER GIFI'S STATIONERY - PRoGRAMS CL1JB PINS -. KEYS :M'EDAi.B i- Tit<)~. Write or call CARL SORENSEN 110 Murray ATe. Watfll'fcwd. N.Y. PHONE TB.oY....,.ADAMI!! S-IMS Lucullus's, which drove back the Romans and their allies. Neverthe• less, Lucullus succeeded in check- ing the larger force and in tl:Ie meantime tried to arrange an alli- ance with Parthia, a neutral whose weight might shift the balance of power to the Roman side; At this point Lucullus was superseded and ordered home, for a combination· of reasons including too ·inuch inde- pendence of the Roman defense de- partment, dislike by the Roman troops under his command because of his austerity, and opposition to his Asiatic reforms. He retired to his magnificent estate near Ro:tne, where he lived out his days writing his memoirs and serving as a \front\ for conservative and re- actionary political groups. The careers of Lucullus and MacArthur cannot be considered equivalent but, like m~y other aspects in Roman and Amencan history, have a more than for- tuitous relationship. Although far from identical, United States his- tory has so far had much the same course .of development as Roman. The future of our country can only be surmised, but it is to be hoped that it can avoid the fatal decline of the Roman Republic, though • disconcerting suggestions of such a debacle axe not hard. to find in many of the events currently transpiring. Sincerely yours, Don M. Cregler Classified Ads As a service to the campus community, the Concordiensis in the future will accept classified ads. All ads must be in the of. fice by Monday afternoon for insertion in -Friday's issue. Advertising rates w-ill be 25 cents for one-fourth of a:n iii,<lh. MAKE GRUPPER'S YOUR HEADQ\ARTERS FOR YOUR eGiFTS eWATCH ·REPAIRING . ftPEN$ & PENCILS 185 Jay Street (Next to. Fanny 1Farmer) Famous Chinese and Americ;an Foods LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS .AND. COCKTAILS 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595 ~'!'·· .................... ~ .......... -...... ..,..._ .......... ~ ,., ...... '\'-~~··••\'\!'¥' ... \!' ....... y~...,. .. I I I I . I I I I I I I I I ·I I I I ·I I l

.. u. 1951 House, from <.ssical opera Jopular con- a, importing 'S, directors, >plement his .owever, tha:t in the '40's. >f Edna Fer- Oscar Ham- produ.ced · in ,\ the doUble tl Joey,\ .fhe : proquction, wre than a >le catalytic e growth of the team of Osc~r Ham- iuo has al- ldway \Ok- ' \Allegro wst recently, rheir shows mly superior ;t equal em- !ll as :r,nusic. ort has used :nhan.ce and been called ;t bo.o·k. \51 has fur- substantial pearance of l \The King ess insures anality musi- ch, although ttal develop- e to bud. re back the !s. N everthe\ !d in check- and in the 1nge an alli- eutral whose ~ balance of ide; At this >erseded and mbination· of ·inuch inde- 1 defense de- the Roman tand because >ppositibn to le retired to ne~J,r Roine, days writing rving as a ive and re- ups. llcu]lus and ! considel'ed ml:\.Ily other d American l than for- llthough far States his- . ch the same as Roman. try can only to be hoped rata! decline b!ic, though _ ms of such i. to find in currently JUrs, Cregler Ads 1e campus ,r.diensis in : classified in the of- !rnoon for issue. IVHI be 25 if an inch. ERS t 'AIRING 'ENCU.S eet :armer) ~ and t~ds IG nt ~s dLS 1& 6-9595 F~IDAY~ APRI.L 13, 1951 . . . - . . ·--------~---11!11·--~~-----· ·u · '' 9' ' B. • ;· A·cross r ' :: lllOD . ·. ·.. egiDS the l 0 t . d p t• · . ·. ·. u s1 e · rae Ice B 0 a r d !i Tne Union College baseball team, with less than two · . · 1 wee1ts 1 1 emaining before their initial encounter with Syracuse, ·:. By JACK CASSIDY ! has finally moved 0utside for daily drills t0 prepare for their , ................................ ___ ,..,. .... .,., thirteen game schedule. Coach Art Lawrence has cut the, With the Big Red of Cornell pro- squqd to twenty men who will remain on the roster this vidi:O.g the oppositio'h, Coach Frank season.. Lacrosse team. T!l!l.ID Has Depth ~~~~--~~-------- will initiate the Lawrence f·ee.ls that he has a · Track Triple Threat Stickers Open With Corne~ll Wednesday The Union College Lacrosse team wi'll play their opening game of the 1951 season, agaiRst a visiting Cornell ten on Library Field, Wednesday afternoon. This will be the first contest under the tutelage of Frank O'Brien, a former stand- . out in football and lacrosse at Dartmouth College. Cornell's dub can be expected to give the Dutchmen a tough fight and they will be out to avenge the 8-7 setback that they suffered last season at the hands of the Garnet stickmen. Starters Undecided ~--------------------~----~-- · saw some action last Y«;!ar. Gene 1:9 51 Sp r in g• fa:irl\·.strolig ag' regation and looks · · After the ft'rst week of outdoor to participate in varsity sports is ., e Schwartzman, a fine fielder,, may· Sports schedul'e forwat·d to a sllccessful year. secure a position in center if his practice, Coach O'Brien is still to add another year of eltgibili~y Wednesday, on. Boosting these hopes are the fresh- patting improves, anct it is likely doubtful about his starting ten. to a player's career. However, m Library Field. A' man lHQSpecls who a1·e ·c~·pected. that DePuyt will hold down right. The slow conditionJng of some of I the case of lacrosse t~ere ha~ be:n fresh tlirn\! to a.>rld depth to the squad, while a field, especially if the moundstaff the veterans and the presence of .a frosh squad and thts year 1t w1ll a bolstered few of them may break into the proves strong enough, freshmen on the squad will make be replaced by a junior varsity coaching staff, starting lineup. Photo by AI Forman it difficult to pick out a first string ?\roup .. Eligibility for the JV teain and the return of· The· starting nine -has :oot yet Frosh Outfield Prospects ·Bob Murray, who figures to be team until the season is well under- ts still m doubt, but it appears any key . veterans been. selected·, and there is con- Also in contention for spots hi the ·busiest man on the Union way, Not very much is known player will be eligible, and during seems to point siderab'le competition for a few of the outfield are two bright fresh~ cinder sqll.ad this S!)aSo:p., He will about the team that the Big Red th.e course of the season a player toward a success- the JlOsitions. However, it is fair- man prospects, Bill Biooinfield and divide his time between the qua.r- will field this year. They took a may be moved from one squad to · ful .season for t)J.e ly certain that Phil McQuade, Dick Herit•y, Bloomfield has been ter mil~, the broad jtunp and the . rather extensive practice tour the .other. However, it is very un- l!tickmen, with the bas.eball , workhorse of last year's squad, will held back by a sore ·hand, but had· lmrdles. through the South just recently, likely that any of the first string and track squads. , be number one on the moundstaff. previously shown some hitting. -~-----=--------- and while they did not post a very· vars~ty. inen will see any action on The college a(lministration has This week, Lawrence will take a. power, while Henry may break into K t s d impressive record, they played the ~umor squad. finally seen fit to accept Lacrosse , good look at his other pitching a starting position if he proves e . z pe·e .·s some of the best collegiate lacrosse -===============. as a major sport. In lll.C()9rdance prospects. Robie bePuyt has himself at the plate. teams. · I\ with this policy, they hired O'Brien, look..ed ··!'!harp at times on the· The first encounter with the· u p t• Last year's contest was a nip a competent !llan whose person- mound, ~but his good h·itting ability . Oran!5e promises to be a tough . p rae l·Ce and tuck affair all the way, and ality has drawn many fin, el ath•: may- fc:>rce Lawrence to shift him the Dutchmen gained a victory on one, but Lawrence feels that, u· letes to the sticl{ squad· True; the to tlle otuficld. h With their first meet only a Co-captain Tom Quinlan's goal · · e can get past that one, the pros- team is a little green, but it won't Jim. Hogan, another lefthander, pects for a successful season will week away, the Union trackmen midway through the third period. sUffer from lack of condidtionlng .. has worked olit ·recently and be bright. have stepped the tempo of prac- Cornell held a 7-6 advantage at Thanks to O'Brien's promotional sho'lii\Tn good stuff. Lefty Hank tice sessions. The rough spots arc the start of the fourth period, but abilities,' the Iacrossers made a'·Kapme:~~er and Bob Faubel are two' 0 being ironed out and several fresh- Walt Causey evened the count soon Spring scrimmage tour, which may other· prospects for positions be-' G If A • h men have shown unexpected tal- <tfter. Vic Starzenski's team reached have given the Dutchmen the ex- hind M.cQua~e, :;tnd they will pr.ob-· .. 0 ers Walt t e ent. its high point in team work for perience they need. S.everal of the ably p1tc!h 1.n mtra-squad games· 0 • f c Speed Up Workouts that upset win. most valuable men from the 1950 this week. . • penJfig 0 0UfSe The runners have been gradu- None of the other spring sports sq1:1ad have been 1ost, with the at- Catching Is ·set · ··ally speeding up their tryouts, and have ·had freshman teams in re- tack and midfield departments hit <BEhind tne plate Cal Schmidt, a Coach Clare Graves' Golf team. are approaching the time necessary cent years, so the only effect of hardest. However, H spirit an<l . vetera~ from last year's team, has found .itself with Virtually nci for competition. In the field the new ruling allowing freshmen ·pHysical conditioning are any :seer:ns to have the inside track; but place to practice, because the Edi-. events the participants have been criteria, Union will have one of its freshman Dick Schaffer and Paul son Club, the home course, has yet working in earnest, and: one event best Lacrosse season's in years. 'Meader from Albany Phar~acy to open for the season. To make in particular, the shotput, should Art Lawrence, whose baseballers may give him some competition. matters worse, the Club is not. be stronger than last year. started outdoor pract.ice last week,· WhEn tlte season opens, the infield likely to be open for anything Freshman AI MacKinnon and has never been known to be an • posjtions will ·probably find· Ted other than driving off a tee for at Ed O'Mealey may prove pleasant optimist, and this year is no ex- Cah:les at first, Gary Young at least 10 days. Unless the team surprises. MacKinnon, a cross caption. But one can't overlool{ second, Walt Krupa at third' and finds another course available, country star in high school, ha:;; the fact that he has his top pitcher Dick :Munro at shortstop. they will be at a serious disad- been pvessing both Ahe Lakshin · and leading batter returning from However, none of these posts are vantage when they open their sea- and Dick Dolan in the distance the '50 r.ine. In addition, there is· nailed down, and Lawrence has son against Colgate, on April 27. races. In the shot, O'Mealey has b f t I t d f h t done 43 feet, which is two better a evy o a en e ros o sup- Bob Munro, Dick Fifoot, Bill Har- There has been a very large t th C k than Frank Gr<J,bski, last year's .por cse men. · · ris, Jim. har alis and George turnout for the team,· with 25 men J k leading man in this event, could Phil :jM:cQuade should be the' ac son providing strong competi- trying for berths, However, only do. shining li~ht of the mound sta. ff.,· tion f<Jr these berths, Caldes, fot·- three of the candidates, Captain AI Dolan, in workouts to date, has Phil, who Is a small man as pitchers me:rly a shortsto.p, is still not ac- Doyle, Dave Frost, and Ed Exner, lived tip to all the advanced pub- go, has fine control and the cour- custor:ned to his new job at first, are veterans of previous varsity Jicity he received last year. Not age neccssary to pitch the route. but .his height and batting powet• competition. At least one schedule · (Continued on• Page 4) The catching is Sf't, with 1·etw·nee are s:m•ely needed there. Harris change has been announced so far .. -===============. Cal Schmidt showing the way. The is• making a stror g bid for the key- The match with the u. of Vermont, '\ infield is inexpt>ric.nced, but has sto:ne spot with Krupa, last year's which was planned for May 8, has Mat. Mon.-Fri. 40e Eve. 50e . good possibilities, and the outfield Iea.<lin.g batsman. been moved to May 9. The con- has a whole host of speedy can- Th~ outer garden may be the test sceduled for April 30 with didates. The Lawr.ence-men have weak spot of tl:e squad. Bill'Kaz- Rochester may possibly be can- a tough 13 game schedule, but · novrski seems to have assured him- cell!)d, according to Coach Graves. should come' out on the long end .. sel::f of the left field spot where he The dndermcn have coach Bill ~==============n Ketz smiling, and chances for a Serving Union's Men For Yea:rs bett~r than .500 season are good. His big winners !rom last year, Art Hagar and Newt Culver, have graduated. But, with about a dozen neophytes out for the squad, he is three and four deep in most : events. If thP thir clads· have any weakness, it is in the field events, where the men are untested. 'Serving Tile Capitol Dis·~rict • Complete Line of Institutional Groceries WGY Food Products Albany, N. Y. See yoGr agent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-567.6 114 State St. near Ferry Points shoul.d be piled up in the middle and long distance events, where Abe Lakshin, Dick Dolan and Bob Murray will show the way. Murray will be the team's workhorse, competing in the 440 and broad jump, as WPlJ as the talf. The harriers won't fare as well as Ketz's powerhouses of the i 1! '48 ar.d '49 seasons,. but should im-. ~, GOOD SHOES FOR R pr~~::u:k~beai~ e;_;;n:P~An- STIJDENTS and FACULTY . Phil Englebardt's Liquor Store DOCK: Rumor has it that Tom Quinla.n, Un!o:n;s ltin,er!!-nt l!,thlete, has become a capitalist. Quinlan, who co-captEI,ined the 1950 Lacrosse team, went to Alaska last summer, and recently purchased one-third of a limestone mountain there ... Coaches of Spring sports at Union are quite disgusted with the . apathy shown by the class Of 1953; There has been a dire need for sophomore managerial candidates, Patton & ·Hall X-RAY FIT'l'INO 245 Stat~ St.-Since- 1891! • A full supply of liquor and wines for all your needs on parents weekends. 519 UNION ST. Phone 3-3110 especially for the baseball and la- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I crosse teams. Not one Sf!ph re- · . 1 ; sponded, although several calls were made ,, •• . Is it true that Marv Zepf has signed a contract with the Water Follies of 1952, after his \epic\ :per- formance in the Intramural Swim- ming meet Tuesday? ... Tb,e einder team's Dave Bl'OWil ranks as one of the best all-al'Ound atbietes at Union. He is a three event man in track, has boxed in Golden Gloves, •and was a high scllottl cross country challlp. DESK LAMPS Adjustabl$ Incandescent and Fluorescent · ... '\'. SAVE 10% .• -ON FOOD COSTS •• -; .$AVE 10% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6·9766 \Meet and Eat at EDDIErS\ 547 Noit St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.50 for $5.00 • GENERAL HARDWARE • HOl}SEHQLD GOODS ~ PAINTS ·' • IWTfi1TI~ Starts Today With GENE TIERNEY JOHN LUND - MIRIAM HOPKINS ·~-......:•:::;nd THElMA RITT-\E\-'R'---, \\ CO-FEATURE - IT'S ALL ACTION \OH SUSANNA\ with Rod CAMERON - Adrian BOOTH-Forrest TUCKER ; _'1 ..... ' .. 1 .. ~-!-z:l .. :_~p~~ \The Jackpot\ James Stewart Barbara Hale o 2 MAJOR HITS e Ruth Roman in Lightning Strikes Twice 2 FIRST RUN HITS 41TTEPra:g The Command Performan<le Picture of the Year Mud lark Irene Dunne - Alec Guinness and The Lost Volcano With BOMBA THE JUNGLE BOY In Durham, North Carolina, the \Y\' th · f ·· , on e campus 1s a avonte student gathering spot. At the \Y'~ ~Coca-Cola is the favorite drink • With the university crowd at Duke, as with every crowd~Coke belongs. D,a·vi:d Maho~ey Co,mpany • . SAVE SUPPLY: co. • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired e Engraving,. fool J.ay ·JewlefY Co. .lisk ior it either way ••• both trade-marks mean the same thing. , 50 I State St. ' ·, . ,, .. \: PHONE 6-4193 • : • ' ! : 2M State. St 1 ,: PhQP~t 3-369i , ' •, ' .. \·. . ... l29'S. Brandywine Ave;, Phone 3:.3~92 ' State anct'Brciadway -~. BOTTLED UNDeR AUTHORITY GIF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 1CHllNECPADY CbC:A-COLA BO'ITLING COMPANY © '1951, The Coca-Col~ Company

Profs Make Choice of Unique Art H . t . , G t t M··... Exhibit. Set f,S ory s rea es . en A relatively new medium of art B AI Kingon will be exhibited in the Old Chapel • • • Y • • Art Gallery beginning Monday and In their Idle tune men have always speculated on which continuing through Friday,· from one of them was the \greatest.\ Here on campus the mem- 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. bers of the faculty have devoted their lives to varied fields of The ex.hibi~ion, prepar~d by t~e I d · · h h . th . · , Western Sengraph Institute, Wlll study. n omg sot ey ave come ac10ss e g1 eat m evel Y include forty serigraphic .prints. field and so we posed this question to them: \Who is the Serigraphy is the art of printing greatest individual that society has veer produced?\ pictures on paper by squeezing colored pigments through a silk Many Conceptions of \Great\ The question resolves itself into one of criteria for the word \great.\ Each professm· was asked to use his own pe1·sonal interpreta- tion. But perhaps the most startl- ing conclusion that can be drawn from this survey is that there arc so ma:ny conceptions of such a frequently used word as \great.\ The most prominent were that greatness was measured by the diversity of the individual, by the influence the individual had on so- ciety, by the degree of original good material the individual had created, or by the degree of spiritual quality in the person. be cited as doing both well, he added. Had Greatest Mind Dr. Coffin selected Aristotle be- cause, in his opinion, he had the greatest mind in history. Although not sure what greatness is, Dr. Coffin is convinced that it is an attribute of the mind. scr.een. In reviewing one of the Insti- tute's exhibiti-o•ns, such as may be seen at the college Art Gallery, Arthur Miller, art critic for the Los Angeles Times, said of the mediull', \Serigraphy is a going craft, particularly suited to our time. Because the method makes possible a much higher degree of coior oontrol than color-aquatint, the method by which. the popular color etchings of this century's early decades were made, serigra- phy is much better suited to con- ten porary art and is steadily nos- ing into first place as the natura:! color print medium of qur period.\ Photo by Don Harper Roger Feinstein, Beta Eta •Upsilon ple'dge, is shown above beal'ing a Berg Cup which was presented to him on a recent pledge trip to Cornell as part ·of the Greek Wee!!: festivities. The Cup, awarded to Kappa Nu f1·aternity in 1937, was prPsum- ably lifted by some Cornellians 14 years ago. Chooses Goethe President Carter Davidson chose the man who he has tried to pat- tern his own life al'ter-Goethe. He believes Goethe to be the great- est man because of his trmendou:; success in such a variety of fields; literary, of which Faust is the most notable example; science, where he did considerable work in optics; and politics, where Goethe served as prime minister of his electorate in Germany. Dr. Harold Blodgett selected the criteria of influence but could not decide how to measure on field of influcnep against another. For crcativt•ncss, h<' chost• Shakespeare, da Vinci, G\ethc; for religious pow<•r he chose Christ and Isaiah; for phinsphic power he selected Aristotle, Thomas A. Kempis, Ba- con and Kant; for scientific power ht• decided on Newtor, Freud, and Einstein. He left the nominations for social and political power to others. Dr. Blodgt>l t also alluded to the reference of Emerson that whoever the man might be, he is probably somP combination of \Caesar·'s hand, Plato's brain, and Lord Chl'ist's heart.\ ---a--- Track q~arter mile. Brown will provide depth in the pole vault, and is a (Continued fr.orn Page 3) ·tough competitor in both the half Dean C. William Huntle, after pondering the matter for a quarter of an hour, said he couldn't answer the question because he does not have the wisdom to set up the ,criteria. CitPs Sigmund Frt>Ud Dr. Clare Graves believes it is Sigmund Frrud. Ft·Luu puintcJ out that society is founded on the nature of human nature. He taught that all new societies de- velop when a new society abolishes an inhibition of man that a pre- vious society contained. For this contribution Dr. Graves believes he should be considered the great- est man. Dr. Vladmir Rojansky is not sure of the exact man but he is sure that it is not a scientist. \Scientists do not do the mo:s1 important things for humanity,\ said the pro- fessor. Dr. Rojansky does not think the honor should go to thP creative genius, either, but rather to people in the field of social studies. He considers the par- liamentary form of government the greatest institution of man and therefore selected those persons having to do with the issuing of the Magna Carta collectively as the greatest person. Limited to science, Dr. Rojansky said he did not know their names but they were the persons who invented the wheel, the alphabet, and the deci- mal. Declines to Answer Dr. Douglas Campbell declined to answer on the grounds of a per- sonal theory that all professional men should refuse to answer ques- tions which can't be answered within the criteria of his own pro- fessional training. Dr. Harold Larrabee at first wouldn't pick a definite criteria for judging and stated that the ques- tion aroused a morass of misun- derstanding but finally admitted that he pNson~)ly thinks er.light- ment of mankind is what really counts. And on the basis of de- gree that each person has enlight- ened society he chose Darwin and Einstein. Dr. Philip Stanley chose Mo- handas Gandhi. Gandhi not only organized mpn for some high moral purpose. he said, but al:;:o was able to verbalize the cause. 1 0 Draft Exam <Continued from Page ll student obtains that score, or is in the upper half of his freshmen class, upper two thirds of the sophomore class, or upper three quarters of his junior class, he shall be eligible for deferment Hnrlrr the dir<'<'tiYr of :\f:ljor G.:r.- eral Lewis B. Hershey, director of Selective Service. Hershey Answers Vinson President Carter Davidson has urged all students, regardless of their standing in class, to take the test. Deferment is still at the dis- cretion of the local draft boards. Soon after Hershey's pronounce- ment, comment on Capital Hiill among some sources was unfavor- able. Representative Carl Vinson <D.-Ga.l, chairman of the House Armed Forces Committee, wanted to outlaw the directive by specific mention in the draft law now be- fore the House. G<eneral Hershey announced that the test will defi- nitely be given. He said that some yardstick must be established on which to gauge deferments. He emphasized that these are defer- ments to be awarded, not exemp- tions. Vinson's proposal would leave the status of college students on their present indefinite basis. Classified LOST-A watch with a gold expansion band ... it is either a Waltham or a Wittnauer make. When the watch should read nine thirty it looks kind of like eight thirty. Of senti- mental value so don't expect a big reward . . . return to W. Taylor, Psi U House. PHOTOSTATS DRAFTING SUPPLIES K & E KERN, BRUNING • HAYDEN Ph•otocopy r ::e:: ::.e: ~e: .::.:::_:a:~-~-~-~-~-~~;;.~-==-=_::_::::_=_=::::_::::::_::::. ::::_::::::::_:':-! DISTINCTIVE MEN'S WEAR ·capital Men~s Shop, Inc. 167 jay Street I I I I I I I Schenectady, N. Y. : I I &---~-----------------~------ FOR All YOUR GIFT NEEDS Servi•t Union Since J9J 1 ., ·•: '\11 oSOU' 6\\t\\1 JAYST.Jid II 166 Jay Street I! Ferro's Restaurant Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE FERRO Proprietors 1115 Barrett St. • Specializing in IT ALlAN-AMERICAN FOOD Phone 6·9554 only should he develop into ore and quarter mi·les. of the colelge's best milers, but mentor Bill Ketz says h~ also has a fine chance of brea·king the two mile mark at Union. Vaulters Inexperienced The p.gle vault is still the big problem. There are five men try- ing out for the timber topping post, but only two have had pre- vious experience. Len Klingberg has the inside track, while Dave Brown, the only other experienced vaulter, should be number two man. The three remaining aspir- ants, Charley Mosher, Randy Oram and Tom Giambruno, are starting from scratch. Bob Murray and Dave Brown ..tl e two m~n \o\hu arc being counted on heavily. They will be the workhorses of the squad; each participating in three -events. Mur- ray is expected to take up the slack in the hurdles and broad jump, besides his specialty, the r-;;~~~~~:;~~~~~~~~~~-1 I ~ I I I I I I To progress In your prolessioo you will I t need a Professional Engineer•s license in~ I N. Y. State. The first step is to take the 1 I I State exams June 25, 1951 to become ao I Engineer-in-Training. For information on t how to apply lor the license, review I 1 1 material, past examinations and their~ solution, send a post card to 1 I w. GLENDINNING P. E. I I 5123 Bell Blvd., Bayside, N. Y. I ! _______________________ ! LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy Prescriptions \The College Students .Drug Store\ Chemicals - Drugs Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET UNI·ON COLLEGE BOOK STORE UNION COMMEMORATIVE PlATES are now available at the Book- store-Sold in sets of four at $10.00 Outstanding for MOTHER'S DAY GRADUATION WEDDING GIFTS The Supply Is Limited College Rings Are in stock for immediate sale. Seniors Should Purchase Now While All Sizes Are Available. Price-$36.00 ind. tax • James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street In tho old days, if would have taken a pole l/i1e over 700 feet high to carry all the con.vorsatlons that can go through a 2'/z-lnch coaxial cable. -~ IFC Plans Social Work The Interfraternity Council has ananged for three social projects which are to be undertaken ·by re- presentatives of the houses next week. One group will work at the Jewish Community Center, another wii! help the Boys Club clean their play yard and put up a basketball post, a:nd the third will wash walls at the YMCA. The council plans. to e.Xpand this .type of activity in the future. President Duncan Martain an- nounced that the Interfraternity Sing will be held Friday night of .prom weekend. The coun.cil will present a cup to the winners. Each fraternity group must number at least ten' men. All members were urged to be present at the next meeting, since. elections wHI >be held. 0•--- Conference Debates (Continued from Page 1l pointed to work with Professor Harold Blodgett, chairman of the standing library committee, to in- vestigate the problem. No repre- sentatives of the library were !lit the conference. ' Most of the faculty agreed that exams should be scheduled at least FRIDAY •. APRIL 13. 1951 Alumni Club Plans Dance and Concert Undergraduates _ have been in- vited to the am~ilal Glee Club con- cert and formal da·nce sponsored by the Un1on College Alumni Club of Schenectady:, to be held at the Mohawk Golf Club on April 28. The concert begins at 8:30 and the dancing at 10 p.m. Student tickets may be obtained in the Student Activities office at a $1 per person, . The Alumni '\club has announced that students from the Schenec- tady area, who will be members of the club upon graduation, are · especially Ul'ged to attend. The tradition of inviting Ur:tion st~­ d'ents to this alumni affair has been dormant for some time, but the club hopes to become more ac- tive by encouraging greater par- ticipation in its activities by younger alumni. ·ro days in advance and, ·in a dis- . cussion of Greek Week tests, it was brought out that many profes- sors planned exams because they did not know when initiation week was to be held. Student apathy and poor student- faculty relations were discussed at length, with no definite .propo;3als resulting. SCHENICTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY S1REE1 IF all the telephone voices That ride together in one coaxial cable Traveled as they once did Over pairs of open wire, The sky above Georgetown University, In Washington, D. C., And over all the other points Along our extensive coaxial network, Would be a jungle of poles and wires. . .. Coaxial cable-no thicl~er than a man's wrist- Can carry 1800 telephone conversations Or six television programs At the same time. • • This cable is the product of Years .of continuous research and development- And another example of the way we work, Day in and day out, to make the telephone An important and useful part of your life. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

IL 13, 1951 >Plans joncert ve been .in- lee Club can- oe sponsored Alumni- Club ! held at the April 28. The :80 and the· r be obtained ties office at 1s announced the Schenec- be members !!.duatiol!, are •ttend. The Un'ion stu- :i affair has me time, but )me rtwre ac- •greater par- wtivities by nd, ·in a dis- eek tests, it many profes- because they itiation week poor student- discussed at :ite .proposals = s wrist- opment- lrk, LOne if e. Welcome All Ma's, Pa's Founded at Union College in 1877 • Elections Wednesday and Thursday Vol. 78, No. 22 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1951 PRICE 10 CENTS Gen. V artdenburg 7 Seniors To -Address Grads Ele~ted To Ph1 Bete General Hoyt S. Vandenberg, chief of staff of the United States Air Force, will serve as honorary chancellor ·at the 156th graduation exercises of Union .College on :Sunday, June 10. First Parents Weekend Offers Varied Program ·candidates for Office By Herbert Hiller This weekend U n i o n College is playing host to the parents of Union stu- dents. This, the fh•st an- nual Parents Weekend, is being sponsored by the administration in con- junction with the D~lphic Society and the entire student body. by Forman First row, left to right: Leslie F. Couch and Thomas w. Odell, candidates for secretary of the Student Council. Back row, Jobn Moses and David Walrath, presidential candidates. In the first piece of business of the evening, Gerald Parker pre- sided during the election of a president and secretary pro-tem. Moses and Walrath were elected to fill these vacancies, respective- ly, until the election of n.ew offi- cers. Gerald Shapiro was ap- pointed chariman of the election committee to fill the opening left by Moses, with Richard Nemeth and William Burns completing the group. A run-off ballot within the Coun- cil was necessary to limit the num- ber of candidates to two as pre- scribed by a motion passed earlier in the evening. Accepts Invitation The Council voted to accept an invitation by President and Mrs. Davidson to a dinner for the new Coun·cfl and out-going Senior-s of the old group on May 8. It was decided that a special meeting would be held following the affair. In answer to a question brought up by Paul Woods, chairman of the Freshman Orientation Com- mittee; the Council voted that next year's Frosh should definitely wear both Freshman caps and but- tons. Meet Your Candidates DAVID WALRATH, of Troy, candidate for president, is a junior. He has served as .;en- era! manager and personnel di- rector of the rathskeller. He is also a member of the Mounte- banks, of the freshmen orienta- tion committee, and of the Jun- ior Prom committee. He is a member of Beta Eta Upsilon fraternity. JOHN MOSES, of Glens Falls, presidential candidate, is a soph- omore. He is program director of WRUC, was president of the sophomore class, and is a mem- ber of the Concordiensis. He is a member of Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. LESLIE F. COUCH, of Al- bany, candidate for secretary, is a junior. He was president of the junior class, chairman of the prom committee, a member 'of the Pre-Law Society, was a member of the fresh lacrosse team, and a member of the Mountebanks, He is a member of Psi Upsilon fraternity. THOMAS W. ODELL, of Bellerose, candidate for secre- tary, is a junior. He was for- merly a member of the football team. He is a member of Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. The primary purpose for the weekend is to familiarize pat·ents with the college as it truly is, without the rush and trappings of commencement day. Prepared Full Schedule The Delphics, an honorary so- ciety, volunteered their services when the administration sought a group to take charge of the week- end. It was felt the Delphics as uff1eial .,;o!lq,;c hu:o.ts, would be in the best position to spor.sor the weekend. They have prepared tJ!1. full schedule of events. The parents are requested to register at Hale House Friday eve- ning and Saturday morning until 1:00 p.m. At this time they will be given information concerning the college and they will be di- rected as to the whereabouts of their sons. The A.F.R.O.T.C. unit will pre- sent a special dress parade at 1:30 assisted by the college band. Fol- lowing this there will be a number of athletic events with the jayvee lacrosse team, varsity track team and iiootball squad participating. Mountebanks to Perform At 5:00 Saturday afternoon President and Mrs. Davidson will officially welcome the parents at a tea in Hale House. At this time the cup will be awarded to the group on campus having the larg- est number of parents in attend- ance. Following the tea there will be a question and answer period, where the parents will be able to receive information concerning the cone~ e and the draft situation in regard to students. In the evening the Mountebanks will pt·esent a special performance of \The Glass Menagerie\ which wil! be open to all parents. Dr. Norman B. Johnson, head- master of the Park School, In- dianapolis, Ind., will be the guest speaker at the Sunday morning chapel service. In the afternoon Dr. Elmer T.idmarsh will give an organ concert in Memorial Chapel. At!livities to ]le Open All student activities will be open for the parents Saturday. The A.I.E.E. society v.ill also hold a guided tour of the engineering building. The Rathskeller Will be open for inspection from 9:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. and will be ready 'to serve snacks from 3:30 on. The college book store will be open, in addi- tion to its regular morning hours, from 1 :oo to 3:80 Saturday after- noon. By carrying a motion proposed by Paul Carbone, the group de- cided that temporary officers and members who resign from the council be requested to turn in their Student Council notebooks. Tax Questionnaire Indicates Trends Prom Photos Ready in Two Minutes Prom photographs can be had~•>--------------­ two minutes after they are taken, at \Saris Gene,\ the Junior Prom, on May 4. Huesten Collingwood, Gerald O'Loughlin, chairman of Davis W. Griffith and Robert L. the Tax Committee, announced West, who have been given the yesterday that due to the size of assignment as the official J)rom the task the correlation of the re- photographers, will be using both sults of the committee's quesion~ a :Polaroid Land Camera, and a naire, which was presented to the conventional camera. students in Monday's chapel, baS If two minute service is desired, not been completed. 'a minimUlll of two pictures must O'Loughlin reported that certain be purchased, at the price of one trends are clear: (1) The students dollar per photo. Any number of do not seem to completely under- copies of the pictures ,produced stand the operating procedure of with the conventional camera, in the Tax Committee. (2) They are contrast to the single copy of each not certain as to the functions of picture produced on the Land cam- the various activities that receive· era, can be purchased at the same funds from the committee. (3) . price of one dollar per copy. These They tend to have definite and' other pictures will be delivered the strong opinions on the desirabil-. next day. ity of continuing certain of the ' Another innovation in this year's activities. prom is the proposed sale of re- freahments on the outside balcony of the gym, while the prom is in session, This will permit students and their dates to simultaneously partake of a cool drink and re- freshing breath of air. Tickets for the .prom have been on sale since last Monday from salesmen In· fraternities nad dormi- tories. As in the past, the price of the tickets will be raised on the Wednesday before the prom, May 2, so everyone is advised to get their tickets as soon as possible. Doris Remis, the official prom florist has announced that she will give Union students reductions in prices oil corsages, as she has for past proms. Flowers for the prom niay be ordered from her through the ticket salesmen in all the fra- ternity ho'l}ses ·and dorms,

'I 2 a!nnrnr Member As8oclated Col- legiate Press a.nd distri- butor or the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tlsln~ Representative: Na.. tlomd Advertising Service, Inc., College Publtshers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave .. N. Y. C. l\ub- ltsherl every Fvlda.y ot the sl'hool yeav. bittt.ats 1lldltorial Ottlce, Washburn Han 1 · Union College. Pub- llcat on Office. The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered In the Schen-ec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription lOc a copy: $3 year delivered any- where in the United States. SENIOR BOARD JAY N. COHN '52 .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . Editor-ln·Chief MARTIN S!EUBL '51 ................................ Associate Editor DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 .......................... Managing Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR '52 ............................... News Editor JEROM·EJ GARTNER '52 ................................. , .Page Editor MARVIN L. KOHN '63 . . . . . . . .. . .. .. . . . . . .. • . .. .. . . .. . .. . Page Editor JOHN J. CASSIDY '53 .................................. Sports Editor ROBERT C. SMITH '52 .... , ............... , .... , ...... Feature Editor !,EO Kt•PPEI~SCH~Illl '5~ ......................... Business ~lanage1· GEORGI<: F. HED!:-\<;TO).; '5~ ............. , .. , ... Circulation ~lanager JP:SIOR BOARD ARTHUR M. STOCKMAN '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............ Copy Ed ito~ MONROE SILVERMAN '52 ...........•.. , . . Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE W. LEVINE '53 • , ..................... , Exchange Editor JOSEPH K. HA!'IDLER '52 .......••.•..•. Assistant Business Manager FEATURE STAFF Thomas Donlon, Peter Fyfe, Alfred Kingon, Myron Koma1·, John Moses, Rober.t Murray. REPORTERS Irwin Barg, PhiliP Beuth, Alfred Gold berger. Martin Gordon, He•·bert Hiller, Wolcott Hubbell, Lewis Klein, Jerome Klein, William Mohr- mann, Martin Portnoy, llavid Smith, Herbert Spit,a, Kenneth Coryell, David Frost, Leonard Levine PHOT()GRAPHY S'l'AFF Uan Forman, John Stebbins, Jiramt Skutsch. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Jame\ DeSorbo, Charie\ Little, Gerald Robert, Robert Silverman, George Wrubel. CIRC!UI.ATION STAJO'F Rohert Strand, Horace Van Voast, George Putman, Curtis Bates, David Sttlffanha~;\en Culver Hayes, J. Lowell Davis, William Win~hester, Joseph Martin .• Robert Seydel. A Family Reunion This weekend the campus is playing host to hundreds of mothers and fathers of Union students in the first of what is planned to be an annual Parents Weekend. We feel the Delphics have come up with a fine idea in inviting parents to see the college during the school year. It is very important that they become acquainted with their son's college, for only by knowing Union can they understand ifland help it. We sincerely hope that the parents gain from their visit and that the students do their part in making their stay a pleasant one. And we look forward to having them back with us again next year. Austrian .Student Helps Broaden College Life By Herbert Spira Jerry Weinlander is the kind of a student that makes col- lege such a broadening intellectual experience. To speak a while with this amiable, brown-haired HELP studeNt can make you realize how significant the Higher Education for Lasting Peace program may be. Alert, well informed, and circum-·<e•,_._,_-----~-------­ spect, Jerry can help you see many things about America that we are not fully aware of because of the perspective denied to us. Jerry remains unmoved by our modern buildings, sleek cars, ·and mechanical and scientific .develop- ment. \It is all the· same over there-except what was interrttpted by the war. I was told what to ex- pect in America and I cannot re- member being surprised by any- thing.\ · · · \It i13 very big,\ said Jerry, \but ~1 .. •· .. · it is a:ll t:he same culture. At home, •• I live only five miles from the ,, i;, ; . . Italian border and hear speakers ', \ and radio programs in three or \\ ' ·, more languages, and on a variety , \ of . subjects.\ This diversity of ., , .. .background and opinion, he feels, \ , , .,. broadens the interests ·and ·expands the menta:! horizon far beyond that f, · -~ ': ·' · ' of the average American, who· is .. 1,.''.,.·•.· deprived of this stimulation. Photo by :Forman Mter having the opportunity to sample United States propaganda first hand, Jerry has this to say Gerard Weinlander about his stay here so far: \AI- There are some differences in though we are more or less con- our respective college routines. For fined to the campus by our studies, instance, no competitive athletic we (he and the other nine foreign teams are sponsored i:Jy any college students at Union) have seen and there is very likelihood that enough of the country to love it.\ this policy will not be changed. \Despite its many faults, democ- \You go to college to learn.\ racy is, perhaps, the most desi·re- Although a:ll institutions are co- able form of government to live ed, there are virtually no affairs at uDder,\ he reflected, adding, \Here which· to meet women, and there I can think and say what I please.\ are absolutely no blind dates. To During eight years of intensive make connections you \just have to preparation for college at the Gym- know the right people.\ FR,IDAY, APRIL 20, 1951 SOUND AND FURY By Monroe Sllve:rma.n The esseptial consideration in the aid to India question is this: unle~s we send aid immediatelY many human be- ings will die of starvation. mere knowledge of this plus the fact that we have a gJ;\ain surplus and can easilY spare the 2,000;00C tons requested b~ Nehru-these con- siderations aJom should be suffi- cient motivation for the· gift. Such a contdbution has already ·been recommended by President Truman and Secretary of State Acheson. Bills authorizing the do- nation ·have been proposed in both Houses of Cong:tess-.but have been bottled up by committees in both Houses~ This inaction is inexcus- able, especially when we realize that Nehru ;'tsked for the grain last December, and that it will be a long time a,fter a bill is passed before the grain cap. reach India and be distributed to the people. Meanwhile, as we bicker, people starve! The United States, despite its claims to the ·contrary, if;! consid- ered· imperialistic in most of Asia- mainly because of our support of oppr-essive dictators like China's Chiang Kai-shek and Indo-China's Boa Dai. Our association with these hated governments has caused us .to be despised by many Asians. This, despite ·all our words of friendship. Ap.d now, when we have an excellent opportunity to demonstrate our true friendsh,ip and dispel much of\the hate, we in- stead are demonstrating our lack of any but the most selfish con- siderations. There are, of course, many rea- sons other than humanitarian ones, reasons stemming from the corisid- .era:tion of our· own nationa:l inter- est, which speak for our .giving aid to India;, Such a gift would .. be a ,great propaganda weapon in our hands, It would better our rela- tions with not only the 400;000,000 people of India, but also with map.y others in Asia. whose support we need. Our aid to India would help .to destroy the hate ·Of Atneriaa which exists throughout much ()f Asia, and would strengthen greatly the forces in Asia which believe in aooperation with the United States. China. has already offered 1;000;000 tons of grain (.in exchange for jute) to aid India, and Russia has offered .the shipping facHities nec- essary to implement the ·Chinese offer. Some Chinese rice has a:l- readY reached India, and -negoti!1.- tioi}s are now being . carried on in Peiping for the rest. If aid to India comes fr-om China, which can HI afford such a sacrifice; instead of from the United States, which has a large .grain surplus-our position in Asia will be greatly weakened and the· position of the Commu- nists corref!pondingly enhanced. If we d'emand from India( as has been suggested hi Congress) con- formance to our foreign policy in • return .for our aid we will destroy the possibility of good relations with India. Not only would such a demand be inconsistent with our beliefs in democracy and national self determination, but also it wquld increase the hatred of us in Asia. If we ask in retum for our foreign aid the raw materials which India cannot spare we will only strengthen the contention in Asia that we are imperialistic. Thus, from the purely selfish considerations of our own national interests we should · aid India. From a moral or humanitarian .point of view we cannot do other- wise! nasium (public school from age 10 At eighteen Jerry ente;red the to 18), which carries the Austrian Business Administration and For- student through the equivalent of eign Trade College at Vienna, two years of American college, which corresponds to our gradu- Jerry gained a sound command of ate school. He was one of the 130 the English language. He still in- students selected from 1500 appli- tones his words with a slight but cants for HELP to study Eco- D V .T ,e t • noticeable musical German accent. nomics and Languages in the U.S. L' or· ~our J.nJorm·a . zon With the college paying his tui- When Jerry returns to his native · tion and his fraternity, Phi Gamma Austria in August, he will miss FRIDAY, APRIL 20 - Thursday~--------------~ Delta, supplying free room and most the \uniq~e SJ?irit _of mutual Musical :rub co~cert,. ~?· 8:30 Old rth . . board, Jerry can just afford the help, democrabc fnendhness, and p.m., Glona Perkms, v1ohmst, f.Q•l- ·.\' ape!, 3 p.rr., Placement in- ElectiOnS Again difference between the considera- comradship that prevails through- lowed .by reception in Old Chapel, te=Vle~s, Proctor and Gamble Dis- able expense in our universities out the college.\ Although Vienna 10:30 p.m., tickets $1.80 and $1.20 trlbutmg Company, Wells house; The new Student Council held its first meeting last and the four dollars per year tui- is the greatest city in the world- at door; Peniel Bible club, oc, 7:45 ~EE <~tudent _Chap~er), EE-22, tion he used to pay to Austrian without slums-Jerry Weinlander p.m., film \Dust or Destiny\; 7 · 30 p.m., ColloqUlm,. Bioi. Lab. 203, Wednesday night and they appeared to be a group which state-supported university. will miss America too. GRADUATION FEE,. all seniors, 8 p.m. Prof. Plough of ~mherst; could accomplish many worthwhile things during the next _______________________ __:_ ____ last day for payment. Church ·of Later Day Samts, oc, .J year. Le tte t th E',l et SATURDAY, APRIL 21 - PAR- 7:30 p.m. The students have an opportunity to put their stamp rs · 0 e Ul or ENTS' WEEKEND-8-12, registra- WEDNESDAY, APRIL · 2 5---Euch- t' d 1 H 1 h arist (Episcopal Church), MC, 7 of endorsement on the Council next Wednesday and Thursday Praise Union's Showing Too often, we found the group 1 ~~~ge~nvisit~~oc~1a~ses a~~ all 0 s~~: a.m.; Religious service, Silliman when officers of the student body will be elected. The stu- I M k St t S · entangling itself over argum.ents d t t' •t ff' 1 h hall, 12-12:20 p.m., Speaker, The dents failed miserably in the last two college elections by re- n oc a e enate on parliamentary procedure, which en ac lVI y 0 ICes; unc eon Rev. Bertram de Heus Atwood, hour 12 to 1:30 p.m .. ; 1:30-2 p. 'm., •- . fusing to vote despite numerous pleas. They now have a Dear Jay, they did not seem to know, and on AROTC review, Library field; 2:30 pasvuor Frrst Reformed Church, h t t . 11 t f th • d' 1 f tl F The three of us, together with trivial measures such as bills regu- p.m., varsity track, Union vs. Roch- \Christian Witness\; Varsity base- t chancek Ofpatr dla ty a one or t elUr .lsp aly 0 apa lyh. dor Don Schwartz, attended the First lating traffic violations while the ester, Alexander Field, jayvee ball, Union vs. Middl<:!bury at Sche- e sa e 0 S U en governmen at mon, et US hope t ey O. Annual Mock Senate held in the debates on the proposed amend- lacrosse, Union vs. Williams, Li- nectady, 3:30 p.rn ·: Varsity '!a- New York State Assembly cham- ment and the Feinberg Law were brary field, Football practice, Daley crosse, Union vs. Williams at .Sche- bers in Albany last week and we conspicuously avoided. Neverthe- field; 4-5:30 p.m., President's Tea, nectady, 3:30 p.m.; Placement in- would like to express the deep less, we learned a great deal and Hale house; 5:30-8 p.m., dinner terviews, Grand Union Company, pride we felt in Union College when we think the idea presents a great hour; 8:30 p.m., M0ountebanks pre- Wells house; AlEE (Schenectady the two day session was completed. opportunity for those interested in sent \The Glass Menagerie,\ Chapter) EEl-22, 8 p.m.; Annual Rt. A Sane Analysis General MacArthur returned home a hero this week after 14 years overseas working to further the cause of world peace. President Truman sat in Washington and began his seventh year working fo1· the same cause. Meanwhile Am- erican forces fought on through their ninth month in Korea and peace seemed just as far off as ever. The dismissal of MacArthur from his command has aroused a wave of strong sentiment on campus, as well as throughout the country, and Union men pressed close to their radios yesterday to hear what the returning General had to say. But the question of his ouster was rather clear-cut: he had outstepped his authority and was rightfully removed from his position. The more basic problem is the one which was spotlighted and now should be considered: just what is American policy in Asia and what is it to be in the future? The present administration in Washington has failed woefully to set up any definite foreign policy, and their in- decision, or ineptness, is resulting in the useless loss of Am- erican lives in an equally useless battle. College men faaed with the prospect of entering the armed forces, may be' forced to fight in a \war\ that isn't a war for a goal that isn't ob- vious. Instead of the mass demonstrations and hysteria in evidence this week, we need a calm, sane analysis of American foreign policy, directed toward making a definite decision in Among the other schools attend- public affairs and those who just Theater, doors open at 8 p.m. Var- Rev. Msgr. Reiily-Lirt()o!n Mem- ing, including RPI, Russell Sage, wish to learn more about New sity baseball, Union vs. Syracuse oria1 Lecture, MC, 8 p.m. Speaker, State Teachers College, Siena, AI~ York state and its fovernmental at Syracuse, 2:30p.m. Dr. Paul M. Angle, author of \The bany Medical College, Albany Law procedures. Lincoln Reader.\ College oom- School, st. Rose, and Albany Busi- Sincerely, SUNDAY, APRIL 22-Sunday serv- munity jnvited, no charge. ness College, only the Med School ice, preacher, Mr. Norman John- THURSDAY, APRIL 26-Daily as- students appeared to have the edu- EUGENE UNDERWOOD ' 52 son, Headmaster, Park School of sembly, speaker, Prof. Arthur K. Cational tral .nl'ng to cope with the GEORGE HENDON 'ol Indianapolis, Ind., \What is That D . MC DANmL \'OPAN. S '51 tc y ?\ MC 0 •t 1 av1s, , noon, \Industrialism In intended significance of the meet- \' D, ou. ' 'noon; regan reCl a' Backwood Areas: Colonialism\ ing. And the leader of thei'r dele- Resents ROTC Para· de· r. E. A. Tidmarsh, M ' 3 p.m. ( d . . ) PI t. . MONDAY, APRIL 23 _Daily as- secon m senes ; acernen m- gation was Bill Conklin, Union '50. For Parents weekend sembly, junior prom .program, MC, terviews, Guaranty Tr!lst C.O.mpany We haC! a great 4.e.!l.l of respe.;:t noon·, Octavo singers' rehearsal, of New York, Wells house. and adml ·rati'on for our oth 1 To Whom It May Concern: er co- MC, 7 p.m.; Placement interviews, FRIDA. Y, APRIL 27-Daily assam- leagues but the1'r educat'on 1 I deeply resent the ·request made t . . ' d t 1 . 't 1 h a. Ford Motor Compa. ny and Mass. bly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, ra1n1ng seeme o m t by the college administration, and l l etr Life Insurance Co., Wells house. MC V it If U i · scope of argument rather than carried out by the ROTC officers, • noon;. ars Y go , · n on vs. t d th f th I S · R · · Hamilton at Schenectady, 2 p.m.,· broaden it. For example, in de- o para e e corps or e de ecta,.. TUE DAY, AP IL 24 - Daily as\ bating a proposed amendment to tion of the students' parents this sembly, speaker, Pr.c;•f. Arthur K. Varsity .tennis, Union vs. Hamilton lower the voting age to 18 years, Saturday or, as far as that is con- Davis, MC, noon, \The Industrial at Schenectady, 2 p.m.; Varsity Cern d S t d d R · d s · Ch · baseball, Union vs. Hamilton at we consistently heard the time e • any a ur ay, or any ay. evolution an , oc~al ange m Certa1'n! f 11 1 t •· · \ (F' t · · ) A 1 Schenectady, 3:30 p.m.; The Octavo worn, meaningless cliche, \Old y, o a peop e, paren s ameriCa .rrs m ser1es ; nnua enough to fight ... old enough to need no reminders that their High School Conference in Social Singers, MC, 8 p.m., Mozart's P rogeny a1·e prepp·n t b st d' = · FI 1 1 d \Requiem T·ickets $1.50, students vote.\ The amendment was de- I. g o ecome u les, =alley al, p.m. an,. 60 cents at door . feated, 12-9, with the Union dele- future army officel'S, future cannon gation voting as a bloc. fodders. ~ Union proposed two measures, a The author b~il.eves that parents bill to repeal the Feinberg Law want to see their sor.s in class, LANGE & RAPP MAKE which requires loyalty oaths for working constructively, or on the GRU· p·p·ER'S public school teachers and a reso- ball field, for the greater honor of Phar,maey 1 t' Alma Mater. To the author, YOUR u ton congratulating President nothing is so abhorrent as the Prescriptions !'~~~:~n f~~l~:::o ~i;e~~~!~ p~ac~~~ spectacle of our country's youth in HEADQUAR'fERS Both were defeated, but never was training for the military. The :;trmy \The College· Students FOR YOUR ----------------~------------- is the most ignoble, the lowest of Union College more closely united. the professions; for it is successful Drug Store\· eGIFTS Asia before it is too late. A Letter of Thanks Dear Sirs: The Delphic Society of Union College wishes to make public acknowledgement and thanks for the splendid and complete coopera- tion which we have received in connection with the Parent's Week- end. Those who have been especially helpful are: President and Mrs. Carter Davidson, Harold Van de Car, Henry Swanker, Donald S. Jones, Daniel Siesel, Elaine Glun- der, Ann Marie Smith, Richard Heimann, Herbert !tie, and all the members Of the Mountebanks be- hind the scenes, Dr. Elmer Tid- marsh, Colonel Soullere and the A.F.R.O.T.C. officers and men, the staff of W.R.U.C., the Department of Physical Eudcation, the Faculty Women's Club, the I.F.C., the Con- cordiensis, the Student Council, the Union Chapter of the A.I.E.E., the Rathskeller Committee, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Lawrence, Mr. Mc!li- waine, Robert Griswold, Mrs. Jen- kins and Mrs. Hill, Mr. and Mrs. South. · Special thanks are due to the students and the parents who at- tended this function. These people, and others too numerous. to men- tion have helped to mal1:e this, the first .annual Parent's Weekend, a success. The latter resolution was proposed .too, too often in its aim; and its Chemicals.- Drugs eWATCH RE·PAIRING : after an earlier measure was car- aim is death. ried congratulating General Mac But if this job must be done, Cor •. NOTT TERRACE and ePENS & PENCILS Arthur for \his long years of serv- what does it profit us to advertise ice to his country.\ In both cases, that fact, blatantly, vulgarly? For STATE STREET 1.85 Jay Street the bills were introduced to stimu- those who revel in heroic war pic- (Next to Fanny Farmer) late intelligent, interesting discus- tures I have •only pity, for they are f,~~~~~~~~ 2 ~~~~~~~;;;;;:;;;;E~;;;~;;;~;!;~;;;;=.;; sion, but our challenge unfortu- the true cowards~ who must sub- \' nately was not met in the spirit it stitute celluloid dreams to compen\ was given. sate for the inadequacies, the draw- We would like to thank the fac- backs of ~eal life. And the cute, ulty of Union College for prepar- precise steps and turns we shall ing us for meeting arguments on a be privileged to view on Saturday broad and Searching level. .our reflect these war films, and will discussion did not follo:w formal bring to many minds visions other logic strictly, but we attempted to than heroic. take an empirical approach as well. To those responsible for the out- We have been exposed to both and rage, a toast: as such we were able to loolt with Ave, !meprator! Mo:r'itmi te some sympathy and tinderstan(!hig· salutant. on our c6lleagues arguments. EDWIN PAUL SINGER SAVE 10% • ,.......,.... ON FOOD COSTS;,- •• SAVE 100fo NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Qui.::k Take-out Or<;lers Call. Seh.--6~9766 . .. M.eet and Eat at EDDI.E'S\' 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.50 for$5.00

20 •. 1951 the corisid- inter- .giving aid .. be a in our our rela- 400;000,000 witl;l map.y we would help America much of greatly believe in ited States. 1;000;000 for Russia has nee- be Chinese has al- 'negotia- on in to India can Hl instead of which has po_sition wealrened Commu- dia( as has con- policy in • destroy relations such a with our national also it of us in for our materials we will in selfish national aid India. do other- in- Dis- house; EE-22, Lab. 203, Amherst;· OC, .J .25--Euch- MC, 7 Silliman The Atwood, d Ohurch, base- ry at Sche- Ia- at .Sche- cement in- Company, Annual Rt. Mem- Speaker, of \The oom- Daily as- Arthur K. in in- Company assem-· Tidmarsh, Union vs. 2 p.m:; Hamilton Varsity at Octavo Mozart's students RS et AR IN. Y. 3 FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1951 Infirmary Facilities Put to Va-ried Use PrQtecting Union, s Health · · Philos Named as Host To.''Mock' Legislators By David Smith Uni<;>n College didn't always have an infirmary; What many of us would consider to be one of the most important facilities on campus had its odgins, as far as we could deter-· mine, in the early l!}OO's, and then consisted only of town . doctors who made periodic visits to the gym to examine the · asfoem:bled complainents and to l¢ctUre on \Physiology and ~ilffiepe.\ Luckily, th<:lre were no mapor epidemics at that For the second consecutive year, the Philom~theans have ·been n.amed as host for the New York State Student Inter- collegiate Conference on Public Affairs, to be held in the New York State legislative chambers in Albany on April 26 ·. through 28. Hold Mock Session i> The conference, whic.h w!H be at·\ On Friday morning, April 27, a tended by representatives of over general session will be held in the 20 . New . York. State . colleges and : Assembly Chambers to elect the ~mver~!lles,. IS dcs~gned , as a, Speaker of the Asseml,Jy and a : model legislature, m wh1ch the : cll•1•k. That afternoon the commit- To Gym and Back ~-~--~--~----~~~ students hol~ a. mock legislative tees will meet to formulate their tn 1917 a section of tlte gym· c f' b T- lk. sessl.on, duphcatmg as . nearly as I composite bills from the many that ·on· a ·a ' 's possible the actual workmgs of the will be considered. basement was converted into a dis- · · ·. . . .: : state legislators. pensary and in 1924 a more sub-· w 11 . Union has. the distinction of stantial medical service was set up,: · . . i . · Discuss being the only schoo-l to serve for tim~, Dewey to Inspect All day Saturday the students will hold a session in the Assembly Chambers to discuss and act upon the bills proposed by the commit- tee. Those passed will be sent to Governor Dewey for his inspection. The conference will adjourn at 4:30 p.m . at the request of the v-isiting doc- two successive years as host for . . U S p 1• the annual conference. The con- tors, in Silliman Hall. In 1927 <for· . :. • . . .• O ICY Roberl Murray gets an injection from the college nurse, one ference series, which began in 1933 some unknown reason) the infirm- f th at Syracuse University under the o e many services performed at the infirmary in Silliman Hall. ary was· moved to the TIJophy sponsorship of the collegiate de- Room of the gym but then was· The seve~th ·ann-qal Conference bate coaches of New York, has an fi · . 11 . h'f. t ·d t ' h f\ d. for High S~hool St'lJ.dents will be 'H • h T ' A d · Pl unbroken history up to the ·present, . ;nay :S .I· e 0 w ere W!f m held-at Bailey Hall Tuesday, April : lg .· or ' . n erson_ ay· Q except for the war years. ;t now-9n tho \'\d flooe \>\· Tho '\\\noo ••\\\\\'• by · . , The\ mocl< Mn,robliM have Silliman HaJJ, • the Unio;n College InternationalRe- Of.f.ers :Or:g;nalit·y to Un .. t·on· To Learn Techniques ~:=~ =~~~: \t~~~dgha~~~~ oyfo~~ge In looking over the reco_ rds for. lations Club and the League of It It It · . The aim of this year's conier- · W orn vot f s h. t d '11 citizens can gain a first han.d these early years we found that the · en ers ·o c enec a y, Wl ence, as in other years, is to give compla. ints were very similar then have for its theme, \The Policy of \High Tor,\ which the Mountebanks will produce on May the student delegates as complete knowledge of their state's govern- the Unit d St t · T bl d 10 12 d 17 19 'll ment. The conferences, which be- to those seen by Dr. Arony,. pre- · e ; a es In a rou e · - , an ·· - · , W1, . present something new 1'n the way of· a knowledge as possible of the · W . · 0 ld'\ ·gan in New York, have spread to sent presiding physician of Silli- · · r · theater to Union College. techniques of the state's legislative many other states. man Hall: coughs, sore throats, The program includes four round ~ procedure. The \sham\ legislature tabl d . · f Prio:e Winning (;omedy headaches and minor surgical cases · e iscuss10n groups,. ·each o \' lasts for two days, at which time Maxwell Anderson's prize win- d · w such as broken bones, abcess and which will be led by a Union ·Col- esp1ses and De itt, one of the the students act as the elected rep- ning romantic comedy preserts a o t h 1 d b T ingrown toenails. lege professor. The discussion comic situation, excellent charac- u c rren, P aye . Y homas Axel- resentatives of the people of New leaders will be assisted by Union ter development, and a tender, fan- son. York. They elect their own speak- Three Visits, Average student chairmen, Members of the tastic love affair. Van Van Dorn. Situation Resolved er; they form committees; they D League of Women Voters will give The situation finally resolves it- propose bills in J'oint committee uring the .past year i;p.e aver- played by Shervwod Bailey, is the ~~ge student made approximately the principle reply. In addition, owner of the mountain High Tor self when Biggs and Skimmerhorn .]1earings; and finally, they come three visits to t:l:le infirmary, mak- three resource associates will be along the middle reaches of the are caught with the stolen money together in the Assembly chambers 1ng a toto! nf 5,362 o=nlnaUona .p,..nt, one m•mb~ ot LMgue of Hud~n Ri~e. vao Dum 1 , • and are takon Into ountody. Van of tha Capitol Building to debate Of this total, about 4 , 000 students Womn Voters and two college dreamer who warts to escape fl'om Dorn, reunited with Judith, sees and act on the proposed measures. came for medical reasons (colds, students. the great emphasis of materia:! suC'- that his mountain is not worth to Tllis year there will be three grippe, etc.), 600 for minor surgery The conference will close with· cess in our society. His lover, him V~<hat he thought it could be main' committees, representing the and 416 limped across campus from a general session iri Old Chapel' Judith, played by Miss Dolores and he finally sells. But he has three main problems to be dis- 'th M J C 11 f s h c · f s h d \the will probated first and so die- library and Alexander Field with W1· rs. ames u en o c enec- · am o c enecta y, urges him to cussed: <1) How can highway sprains, twists and bruises. This tady .presiding. Four high school sell his mountain, get a job and tates his own terms. safety be improved in New York t d t '11 t h f th ttl d Anderson achieved a great de. al St t ., ( 2 ) H record compares favorably with s u en s Wl. repor _ on eac o e se · e own. ·a e. ow can New York d t bl d . · d th Th t b · h t b of his effect through blaril{ -verse: St t . that of the year before when the roun a e lSCUSSIOns an en, e wo men w .o WIS o . uy a e election procedures be im- D H ld A L · b h · · h' m t · B\ d S\' which better expresses the poetic d? infirmarY played host to 5,500 stu- r; aro . arra ee, e a1rman 1s oun am, 1ggs an n:1mmer- prove . and (3) How can elemen- d~nts. of the department of philosophy, horn, played by David Harvey and beauty he has created. Lighting 'tary education in New York State will conclude with a summation of Ralph Jonas, are trying to force effects and CGstumes ar,e important· be improved? The causes for infirmary visits the conference. Van Dorn into selling by holding in showing the two levels of char- run in yearly cycles. During spring The round table discussions and up the probate on the will which acter, the real and the unreal. May Submit Bills and early fall, the number of ortho- their leaders will be: \The United would give him the title to High D~~=rs~~itic:a~irc~w~!:~d ~~~·. Each college represented is en- pedic cases goes up, while the win- States and Asia,\ Dr. Frederick L. Tor. titled to one member for each of ter mo ths br' · f B co ..,. ta the best American play of 1937, It · n mg an mcrea:;;e 0 · Bronner, professor of history, lead-. e mes ,..,an sy was the second time the award was the three committees, and each col- medical complaints, from colds on er; John EdmOndson, student chair- The play becomes a fantasy when given. The first time, Anderson lege is entitled to submit one bill up. The great majority of the ath- man·, Martin Siegel and Louis A. there enters on the scene a worn an I lk d ff t on each of .the three problems to letic accidents occur in touch foot- Hoornbeek., resource assoc_iates. and six men, members of the crew a so wa e · 0 wt h honors for be discussed. ball and are usually due to wet . of the Dutch sh~p. \Onrust.\ These \Wintereset.\ g . h 1 d \The United States and Western ·people are ghosts from the 17 th On Thursday evening, April 26, rass, 1mproper s oes, poor Y Pa - Europe,\ Dr. Edward Marz, as- the students will hold preliminary · ' sistant professor of economics, . committe<> hearings to elect com- ded clothing and no trai'ni'ng Wl'th century who are w. aitihg for their Need for Chemi·sts th~ \'and bones gettm· g the w· orst ship to return. Van Dorn falls in ~ · o \' · · leader; Paul R. Fenwick, student rnittee officers and to review the beating. Organized football, on. the chairman,· Richard H. Stock and love with the woman, Lise, played CI•ted by Dr. Hurd bHls submitted by the various . · · • · · In r ew m- Jerome 0. Klein ,resource associ- colleges. other hand bl' 1 ·ngs · ve y f · by Miss Anne Marie Smith of_ Sche- juries , nectady. It .is throuf h these peo- . ates. pie, especially Lise, that Van Dorn \The United States and Point sees pass before him his ideals of Four,\ :Pr. William B. Bristol, as- a non-materialistic life. In addition to the complaint sistant professor of history, leader; The comic situation develops Exam Jitters Treated cycles, there also seems to be an Arthur C. Glover, student chair- when two bank robbers take refuge Hour Exam Cycle. This is marked man; Keith A. Hitchins and Nor- on the mountain. Biggs and Skim- by stomach _u}lsets, diarrhea and, man E. Scull, resource associates. merhorn stumble upon the mor:ey . logically enoug-h, jn,:;;ommia. Dr. ·''The Ideological Confl~ct,\ ?rofes- but they are later trapped in a Arony does not consider these sor Joseph Rotundo, associate pro- steam shovel which is doing con- things to be \psycho-somatic\ but fessor economics, leader; Harry A. struction work on the mountain. merely due to \tension states.\ He ;petrak, student chairman; Law- Some of Anderson's best humor is added that it usually 'takes time, a renee w. Levine atJ,d Donald E. written in the scenes between the wife, 'financial responsibilities and Guder, resource associates·. two modern day personifications some other things to worry about Registration for the conference of the materialism that Van born before men become 'Victims of the will take place at 1:30 p.m. in more interesting bodily disord,ers. Ba.j.ley Hall. The round table dis- Very few c~;~.ses seen by Dr. Arony have .to be referr~d to hospitals for treatment, as the il).firniary is equipped with X-ray, diathermy,. infr~·red, electro-c~uterizing, hot- -packing, .blood-test, basil metabo- lism and other a.pparat:u~:~ p}us seven ·beds :and e)tpert supervision. Only. two non-critical and non- surgical cases had to be referred to hospitals this past year. c~ssion will begin at 1:45 and the .general session will meet in Old Ch;ajjel at 3:30. Representatives from Capital District high schools have been invited. Physics Club to Meet Phil Englebardt's Liquor Store • A full supply of liquor and . wines for all your needs on prom weekend. 519 UNION ST. Dr. Charles B. Hurd, chatrman of·---~----------­ the department of chemistry at. P '\\ • • • • •- • • • • •- Union College, reports that there 1 I is a heavy emp~oyment demand for 1 I college trained chemists. This was J A M E S 1 revealed at a recent meeting of the I American Chemical society in Bos- I Restaurant I ton, which Dr; Hurd attended. I I Placement representatives at the 1~ I meeting stated that practically 1 every college graduate in the field I I . of chemistry would have an oppor- I e tunity at several jobs in industry I I and govel'nnient service. 1 I . : Bring your Parents : BLACK STUDIO BLACK ST.UDI'O I · I .I down for a meal 1 I I 1 they will enjoy 1 1 I t e I I I \ Application Photos done I I ·. at reasonable prices : Booth and Fountain Service : In Teehnicolor The Loves and Times of Rudolph Valentino VALENTINO With Anton Dexter and Eleanor Pltrker Plus- Action! Excitement \AL JENNINGS OF OKLAHOMA\ With Dan Duryea--Gale Storm and Glol'ia Henry ~im~~~ In Technieolor .. THE GREAT MISSOURI RAID\ WENDELL COREY MACDONALD CAREY 2 Terricic Hits CLIFTON JOAN WEBB BENNETT ROBERT CUMMINGS •ifOR HEAVEN'S SAKE\ -Extra . . . Special- \The MacArthur Story\' ALL NEW 2 HIT. SHOW :. 41'IT'?r~;rng GEORGE ~ONTGOMERY PAULA CORDAY in \THE SWORD O·F MONTE CRISTO\ D.r. Arony \:Pleased\ The infirmary also supplies;. in !!,ddition to technical · facilities, ma:n~ phar.maceuticals-; during the last flu \epidemic\ alone, over 5,000 \pills\ were dispensed. The Physics Society will meet on Tuesday, April 24, in P.L. 204, at which time Dr. J. D. P01•ter of the Che:mistry Departmen.t will speak on the topic, \Phase Equi- librium.!' ~--···-~------~---~ -\· ' 277 State st. Sch'dy 4-8950 I II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· I -2nd 1st Run Hit- ~ IC't'~-=~*_~~4<4C't<«~~l- : 426 State Street ~~:~~== .. ==C=U=B=· =A=N==F=I=R=E=B=A=·L ==L=\===-' -Musical Comedy Hit- Phone 3-3110 Oil the ~hole, Dr. Arony is very pleased with the health situation at Union eollege, noting, in addition; · that the incidence of venereal dis- t~ase is negligible. When ·asked if he had any in- te):'e~ting or humorous stories that migp.t bE) appreciated by Union st1ldents, Dr. Arony said \yes.'' But, · · l;!e· added-with a sinile, \I'm afraid t)ley're not .quite the type for pubii- cation.'' · Serving Uuion's Men For Years St:e your agent on Campus ·UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 ll4 Stat~ St. near Ferry The Best Place in Town To Buy or Rent Dress Clothes OTTAV.IANO'S SARTORIAL BAR 114 JAY ST. Across from City Hall ·----~--~~~---- L G. BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewele,rs UADGBS- ~G8- F4VOM ~y LEA,TIIEB GD!TII STATIONERY • :P:RO<lBAMB. C~UB PINS - KEYS MEDALS · TBOPHJi!l8 Write or call · . . CA~L SORENSEI!I, SO Jl:tirra)' ATe. Wa_,~;N.Y. PHONE 'l'BOY---ADAMl!l .• IS ,, .............. - .. -· .... ...._ ... , ___ _.. ............. ..,.. ...... ,;;·t. .................... ~.. ~ ............... -. >\i*i~\: ... ,_ .... ~: ... ,..· ... -. _ ................. - ....................... .,. ........ ~ L-••·-------- ~ A Make it clear Press Gazette Printers It • ••

4 Stickmen Play Lose to Cornell Ephs; Rally By Bill Mohrmann The varsity Lacrosse squad wiU be seeking their initial win of the year, when they rneet WHliams College Wednesday, at· Daley Field. Coach O'Brien, as of now, knows little about the material he has to work with and expects to have his Softball .Set; Rules -:Given Intramural Athletic Director Art best men working together as the season progresses. Practice Hampered I!> :Lawrence announced yesterday 1 that the 1951 Softball schedule will The Garnet stickers had little may be credited to lack of experi- commence on Tuesday, with two outdoor work and few practice enc.e of some members of the club. games on tap. A total of 24 teams, games before their season began; It IS expected that, as the season ·competing in four leagues, will and have a. long way to go to their p\·o?t·.esses, _the calibre of play will· each play a five game schedule, peak, while some of their opponents d~flmtely Improve, ':llt.hough the with the division winners playing- Union Moves In have the jump on them in train- stiCkers have some d1ff1cult teams off for the crown. ing. The newly initiated Jayvee on their schedule. Lawrence listed the following Photo by Forman squad will give O'Brien an oppor- Hufnagel proved that he has not· rules, and promised that they Bill Hall, attackman, drives into tunity to look over some of the lost the offensive punch which he· would be strictly enforced. Cornell territory with a. Big Red members of the varsity squad -wh<J showed last year, while Thelin. 1. Games will be of seven in-. defender hot on his heels. The ac- have not had an opportunity t<J· showed some scoring ability. John nings duration. play, and also some of his more Kennedy, who is injured, may add. 2 . NO SPIKE promising freshman. some strength to the team when he . worn. tion occurred in Wednesday's fray, SHOES may be in which the Garnet succumbed to In their opening encounter the returns to action. Dutchman dropped a 12-7 decision O'Brien will get an opportunity 3. NO stealing permitted. ·a second half rally by the Ithacans, .losing by a 12-7 score. to the Cornell sticke~:s. Afte1· play- to see some of his other prospects . 4. Bunting i.s allowed. ing the Big Red to 4-4 standstill at in action tomorrow afterno<Jn when 5. Lineups, in writing, MUST the half, the lacrossemen's attac:k his J.V. squad faces the Williams. be presented to the Umpires pre- s faltered as they scored only twice College junior varsity. via us to start of games. '. ports· ·Qu· I·z in the third period and once in the Cornell summary· 6. No member of a fraternity final stanza. Meanwhile, the Cor- Cornell 02 ) Pos.' Union 17 ) can play with a Neutral team. nell stickers found the Union de- :;uttle ........... A . . . . . . . DiMarco. 7. To be eligible to compete in fense weakened and zipped in four Warfield ....... · A . . . . . . Hufnag-er the Play-offs a player must have goals in each of the remaining RBosbshardt · · · · · · · MA · • • · • • · • • Theliln played twice with his respective 1 d o erts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ha 1 per o s. . Heifsterk ........ M . . . . . . . Gardeski team during the reg.ular season. Herb Hufnagel, leading scorer of Longley · · · · · · · · · )l · · · · · · · · .Snyder: Neutt·ais cannot transfer from ore 1 t • t · d th Anderson · · · · · · · D · · · · · · · · · · · Hass , team to. another. Managers are as years earn, aga1n pace e )!aroney ........ D . . . . . . . . Mit·shel - Garnet attack, with three goals Davis ........... D . . . . . . . . . Stroud responsible for the eligibility of and three assists. Big Ben Thelin Hudson · · · · · · · · · · G · · · · • · · • • · Greve their playsrs. followed with two counters to his Score »y Periods 8. Umpires. will have sole juris- credit. Captain Tom Nuttle paced Cornell ................. 1 3 ~ 4-12 diction in deciding whether a the Cornell scoring with three Union · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · .3 1 2 1- 7 ga:rr.e can be played or not because Scoring: Cornell-First period-Nut- f h d' · · goals, while Johnny Roberts, Trev tie i\Varfield) 5:39; second period-· o weat er con 1tlons. Warfield, and Pete Haswell eacll Ha~well :14; Falk (Warfield) s :51 ; 9. Games must start PROMPT- had two. \l'arfield (Roberts) 8:04; third pe- LY at scheduled time. Note that Cornell Scores First The Big Red jumped to an early lead as Nuttle scored the first goal of the game at 5:39, but six rnin- utes later, Hufnagel, on an assist from Thelin, tied the count_ Norm Carr and Hufnagel followed -with markers just before the period ended. However, the Cornell at- tack started to move in the second period as Haswell, Falk, and Wax- Bob Hass Photo by Forman Captains 1951 Union Lacrosse Squad fielti found the net. Thelin's goal was the only Union score in this period. Some poor passing hurt .the Dutchmen In the final half after they had overcome a 6-4 Cornell lead at S: 07 of the tl:!ird .per!C>d. After this the Big Red continued to pile it on as they moved to a five point lead in the final period. Culver Hayes scored the only goal for the Garnet in the final stanza. 1·iod-Hoberts (13psshardt) 3 :13 : Has-. there are three different starting. well (Bosshardt) 5 :09; Gibson 12 :16 ; Diehl (Bosshardt) 12 :36; fourth period times. -Roberts 3:12, :-<uttle (Bosshardt) Playing Fields are designated as 3:52: Warfield (~uttle) 5:37; :-!uttle follows: North Library Field (NL), !'Longley) 11 :59. l'nion-first period -Hufnagel (Thelin) 11 :21; Carr (Huf-. South Library Field ( SL), North nage!) 12:08; Hufnagel 14:Ui; second Daley Field <ND) and South Da- Jleriod-Thelin (Hufnagel) 2 :09 ; third ley Field (SD). period-The lin 6 :28; Hufnagel 8 = 07 ; The league makeup and the first fourth period - Hayes (Hufnagel) 10 :~G. week's schedule is as follows: Substitutions: Cornell-Gibson, Falk, · American National Little, VerValen. Haswell, McLeod, Phi Gamm Jolly Boys Jones, Diehl, John, :->ixon. Union- Heinzmann, White, Carr, Hayes, Lar- Delta Chi Kappa Sigma sen, Tuthill, Forsyth, Erickson, Ne- Drachmas Sigma Chi meth, Bensley. Cadavers Phi Sig Kappa Officials-Haines, Anderson. Phi Sig Delta D. Upsilon Prospects Brighten For Union Golfers Chi Psi Alpha Delt Eastern . Western Psi Upsilon Kappa Nu Snerzigs Theta Delt Beta Eta U. A.I.E.E . . Phi Delt Kappa Alpha The Union College golf team has· Sigma Phi Indians been working out for the past Delta Phi Beta Theta Pi week at the Schenectady Municipal Apr. 24--4:45 p.m. Phi Gamm-D course. The Dutchmen's home Chi !NL) links, Edison Club, is under water Jolly Boys-Kappa Sig (SL) at the present time and will not Apr. 26-4:45 ]l.m. Psi U-Sn!lrzigs be ready for play until the end (NL) of the month. Sig Chi-Phi Sig Kappa (SL) 25 Men Report Since practice has been Hmited. Spring Gridders to Coach Clare Graves hasn't had a lOOd chance tu evaluate the team's Contt\nue Workouts talent, but there has been an en- thusiastic turnout of 25 men. All The Union College football team, of the aspirants will be given a completing its third week of spring liberal opportunity to prove them- practice, is now engaged in heavy selves before ar y cuts are made. drill. For the past ten days the Veteran AI Doyle, number two squad has been partaking in regu- man last year, is captain of the lar scrimmages and will continue squad. Dave Frost and Ed Exner this schedule through the next return; both saw varsity competi- month. According to coach Sam tion last season. Although the Hammerstrom, the big question golfers have been on the greens mark is depth and experience. for only a week, Graves is already Hammerstrom i's sure that there· impressed with the showing of are a few freshmen who as sopho- ~xchange studert Bill Campbell mores next fall will definitely see and Bucky Wittner. Barry Byron varsity service. This group includes and Bob Dibble, who worked out Ed O'Meally, 220 pound tackle from with the team last year as fresh· Freeport, Long Island; Len KUng- men, have also ·looked good. berg, a back from last year's fresh- The Rochester match, which has man squad and an outstanding been on the pending Jist for the player under Hammerstrom in his past two weeks, will be played as high school days; Paul Long, from scheduled on April 30. . Albany H. S.; fullback Tom Giaro- ---o bruno from Plattsburg and Bill Attention Fans Friday of Rochestel'. This week starts the first of a series of sports quiz contests spon- sored by the Concordiensis. Entries· should be in the Concordiensis of- fice by Wednesday nc;>on, and earli- est entries will get preference. The winner shall be awarded one car- ton of Chesterfield cigarettes. No members of the staff are eligible. 1. Many fans remember only Joe DiMaggio as centerfielder for the New York Yankees. But what fine outfielder did the Clipper succeed?· 2. Wllat National Leaguer holds the record for most stolen bases in one season? 3. In order, who pitched the last three no-hit games in the Major Leagues? 4. Who were the last two Major Leaguers to hit four home runs in one game? 5. Wllo was the first Major Leaguer to be drafted in World War II? • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, tool · Jay Jewlery Co. The score might have been even greater, had it not been for tlle fine play of goalie Bill Greve wllo constantly thwarted the opponent's attack with his play in 'front of the net. Controlling the ball for the major portion of the last half, the Big Red shot time and time again with only fair success; Lack Experience Lacrosse coach Frank O'Brien announced yesterday tha.t he would appreciate it if \the speetators\ \vould refrain fi·om encroaching on the playing field and bench area during the COUise of a game. He requested that they remain 15 yaJ·ds from that area. O'Brien said that he appreciated the fans' interest at the Cornell contest, and hoped it would continue strong for the remainde!\ of the season. Make it clear This initial encounter is not a true indication of the quality of the team. The poor play in the sec- ond half, especially the passing, GOOD SHOES FOR ~ Ferro•s Restaurant STUDENTS and FACULTY. Pettton &· H'etll X-RAY FITTING uti stat.e st.-Since 189ll Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE FERRO Proprietors 1115 Barrett St. • Specializing in IT ALlAN-AMERICAN FOOD Phone 6·9554 it ••• FR:IDAY, APRIL 20, 1951 Cindermen Underdogs In Rochester Opener By Phil .Bcuth Coach Bill Ketz will send his cindennen off on their cur- rent campaign at 2:00p.m. tomorrow, against a slightly fav- ored Rochester squad, at Alexander Field. Union will g>O all out to avenge the 71-54 loss which coach Speed Speegle's Yellowjackets handed them in a dual meet last season. Rochester Favored With a well balanced array of O'Mealey Counted On performers at his command, Ketz Experience gives the Speegle\ looks at torr.orrow's meet as the men a slight ·edge in the field :roughest on the schedule. Al-. ·events, but much can :be expcted' though Rochester is favored on. of frosh Ed O'Mealey and Tom the basis of their fine '50 record, Gianibr.uho in the shot and discus, an upset would not be unlikely, r.espectively. Along .with O'Mealey due to the reserve strength supplied in the weights, Ketz can rely on the Dutchmen by several promis- Bill Morse and Sh'etch Batkiewicz. ing frosh. Don Wilsey, Jack Fiscnel and Bat- Mentor Ketz has announced that· . kiewicz will enter the discus event, John Trotter, Frank Khvus, John opposing the point-getting prowess King, Dave Brown, John Pape and· of Rochester:s Vic Allen. Gai·y Murphy will be his sprinters, In the javelin throw, Union's with Brown and Pape. functior.·ing Fischel, Wilsey, Lou Muller and in the middle distance events also. Ken Johnson will have to outdis- Dick Dolan, Abe Lakshin, Bob tance UR's Frank Howd. Howd, Murray and Jack Larkin will be field event captain for the Yellow- the Garnet headliners in the 880, jackets, also is their. top man in mile and two mile runs. AI Mac- the high ai:d broad jump. Lei\ Kinnon and Dick Mechanic will Kling berg and Brown will operate also lend a hand here. for Union in the .pole vault, while .~ig Giambruno and Murray will Wilsey and Murray will do the be the hurdlers and should meet broad jumping. some sharp competition from Rochester lost but one meet last Rochester's timber specialist, John season, and according to coach Creed. The visitors will send their Speegle this squad is stronger and top dasher, Pete Cohen, along with better balanced than last year's. fast steppers Dean Youngman, As a result, a Garnet victory J·uergen Peters and Dick Pappert, would be both a pleasant surprise into the sprints. and an inspiring triumph. Make it clear In Tucson, Arizona, the Co-op on the campus is a favorite student gathering spot. At the Co-op- Coca•Cola is the favorite drink. ~ ' With the college crowd at the University of Arizona, as with every crowd-Coke belongs • · dsk for it either way ••• both trade-marks mean the same thing. BOTILEO· UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COlA COMPANY BY ICHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING .COMPANY ©) 1951, The Coc:a·Cola Company. Fl

20, 1951 cur- fav- will g.a On Speegle\ the field expcted and Tom discus, O'Mealey rely on and Bat- event, prowess Union's and to outdis- Howd, he Yellow- man in Len operate while do the meet last to coach and year's. victory surprise b.e Co-op on student Co-op- drink. at the as with Company. 5 FR(DA Y. APRIL 20. 1951 Tossin' Aro,u·nd• McQuade Faces Syracuse In Road Opener Tomorrow Nistad Narrows Netmen; Five Starters Are Chosen After two weeks of interrr.ittent~•>---------------~­ practice, Coach Pete Nistad has J narrowed his Tennis squad to 15 weH, El.nd they. will probably alter- men of which 10 are assured of at nate m the s1xth slot. Ed Sr.ell, least some varsity c-ompetition. As lette~·man l~s~ year, heads this list. of yesterday, five of the starting ~e IS recetvmg plenty of OPP?lli\ positions were set, with five other t10n from Walt Jenney, Al Fl~h­ aspirants competing in a round- bone, Ed Chaz:d.ler and Bob Dia- robin to clinch the remaining mond. In addttlon, severa-l fresh• ~ By Don Schwa.rfll: ...,...- . By Irwin Barg. Mound Star In this same column last S-pring, · Co~captain Phil J.VIcQuade will hurl the first pitch opening we came out with what we thought the 1951 season for the Union College baseball team tomor- woul~: be \possi~;·~:;e:-:!nf 01 ~i~;=· row afternoon at Syracuse. This will ma1•k the renewal of ing season's foot\ the diamond competiUon between the two schools and tt will opening berth. man ~ill work out with the varsitY Nlstad is Pleased to gam know-how for next yea!'. ball me. In also be the opener for the home team. After w'atching his . appro:C~:~ ~en work. oU;.t for the past two weeks,. coach Art Lawrence S.a m Hammer- .lS non-corrmutal about the prospects for the coming game •strom to ask him as well as for the rest (}f the season. ' for his opening · SeSfoonlng is Slow ~·----~--~-~~--~~ Although AI Rumpf, captain of According to Nistad, the racket- the squad and number three man men. have bGcn a pleas~nt surprise last year, is the top returnee. Nif'- so far; this in spite of the fact that tad is highly pleased with the net- Dick Jesser and Frazier ;Henry, his men's showing so far. Besides top men last season, have gradu- R f h . 1 d t J. . ated. Engles and Grusky have day line-up, he· The weather has been playing replied that we a big part in. the conditioning of had a 1 readY the ba:llplayers, but Lawrence is printed it the very hopeful that several ·Of his previous Spring. char[es· who are rounding into Selectors ~Go o.ut On Limb :r-.leeaiess to say; the lineup we shape •a little slowly will come printed was off the beam. arpund once the season is under· 'The following predictions for the We're not l()oking. ar{)lllld to 1 way. At first, rain kept the team outcome of the major league base~ make a.ny faux pas this Spring, in Alumni gym, and •now that they bal]: races were made at the Con- but we just wish· oo :Dutke ~ few ·are 011t on Alexander field the cordiensis office last night in our comments about the football team' wind and low temperatures have second' annual crystal gazing festi- a.lthough it may seem a little ·OUt been making it ·difficult foi' the vaL Pre-season selections are not pf sea.si>n. · pitchers to 1imbe1~ up thPir arms. I a Concordiensis policy, but we hope When the warmer weather comes; 1 you'll bear with us this once. · Hammerstrom was faced with A t t t !'ttl r expec s o se::' a 1 e moH 1 ••RING\ CASSIDY, seudo sports numerous difficulties last year of the form that w1!1 be needed for 1 ·editor: p. which may. or·may not ·be resolved a successful season. n:ext season. He Jacked a heavy, Withone exception m•ntor Law- AmorioanL&ague NationalLeague bone crushin~ fullback. As a mat- renee is fail'ly sure of his starting New York 1 Bvooklyn ter of fact, he lackll,d a consistent. lineup for tre game tomorrow. Cleveland 2 Philadelphia power runner in any position. His Phil McQuade, who htirls in the Boston 3 New York Pictured above is Phil McQuade, line was light and he was shy on Ud-lifter, is expected to be the Detroit 4 St. Louis who is slated to ·pitch for Union reserves. Some good men are re- mainstay of the mound staff for Cbica,go 5 Boston in tomorrow's baseball inaugural turning and there are some out- the rest of the year. A senior, Washington 6 Chicago at Syracuse. Phil, who co-captains standing fro~h who will help, of· Phil is a veterai). of tv;o years of Philadelphia 7 Cincinnati the Garnet nine with infielder course. varsity ball and Lawrence will be St. Louis 8 Pittsburgh · Walt :Krupa, is playing his third t . h' h ·1 b The Yankees will win because · Randy Oram, a top offensive end, coun mg on 1m eaVl y ecause year of vars1ty ball. Last year is back, as ·are Jerey O'Loughlin Qf a lack of depth. Sophomore Ted after last .season, all .the angels in he bad a. 3-3 record·. and Ellie Harp. At guards .and Caldes will .fill the first base posi- heaven must be praying for them, tion replact'r.g John Tognen· who Cassidy also said Brooklyn will cop ta..ckles· are John Kennedy, Charlie ' · · ' W . a lo t th ough gr duat·o T d with. Newcombe and Roe and a Carpenter, Ivan Kaminow as the 8 s r · a 1 n. e day of snow. · top returning lettermen and an ~:esd.ed somke coachdingth. on hkis bdet\ \POWERHOUSE\ SCHWA »'TZ, outstanding frosh, Ed O'Mealey, n lVe wor aroun e sac ' u .a.o.\ his potential power at the plate sports editor emeritus: should be of some help. Jim Sa- gives him the inside track on the lerno and Harry Miller, both cen- starting berth. A.mel'lcan League National Leagne ters,. are back to fill S.herwin(s gap. New York 1 *New York Gene Erickson, a go.od looking Young at Seeond Boston 2 Brooklyn yearling prospect will 'be around. Gary Young, another sophomore, .Cleveland 3 Philadelphia has had little competition in gain- Detroit 4 Boston Tlte backfield, as is the line, is ing a regular position at second Chicago' 5 Chicago in a: state of flux. .At the moment, base. Dick Mu1;1ro will complete Washington 6 St. Louis Hammerstrom is experimenting the double play combination and be-· St. Louis 7 Cincinnati with a single wing offense. This gin his second season of varsity .Psi U 8 Rickeysburgh .pattern was wtveiled in .the final ball. At third base,. Art Lawrence •The last time the Giants won game against Hamilton last sea- will go with Co-captain Walt tlle pennant was 1937. The last son a.nd worked satisfactorily. Krupa. veteran Cal Schmidt -will time Genera.! MacArthur was in About four single wing plays were ·take up the catching duties and is tlle United States was 1937. Mac- run and they all picked up yaxd- e:X.pected to help along the fresh- Arthur is back. So are the Giants. age on key ·plays. man pitchers during the course of \GRANTLAND\ HILLER, a most Bill Snyder, leading rushing the campaign. ordinary fan: ground gainer as a soph last sea- Coach Lawrence has more of a American League National League son, is baclt to lead the backfield. problem in fillir.g his garden spots. 'New York 1 New York Three other speedy soph halfbacks, Bill Kaznowski has a sure hold on Boston 2 Brooklyn Cindermen To Run In Championships The second annual New York State Intercollegiate Track and Field Association Championships will be held at Harpur College, May 19. This was announced Monday by Henry Kumpf, J'r., president of the association and veteran track men- tor at Rensselaer Polytechnic In- stitute. Kumpf said eleven ()Ol!eges would compete. They are RPI, Alfred, Union College, Kings Point, Hartwick, Harpur, Ithaca, Cort- land, Champlain, Brockport and Buffalo State Teachers. Nine track and six field events will be held. Rensselaer Poly is defending champion. · ump , e smg e ou umor been especially im·pressive, show- George Exner, Sophomores P:;t · k'll th t b r tl: · 1 k f Lakshminarsu and Oscar Grusky. I ~~g c~i:nc a c tes .eJr ac 0 and neophyte Bob Engles ~or J P e. praise. The last thrP!' named will Two doubles teams have been be tasting their first varsity com-~ selec~ed. Eng.les ~nd Rumpf .form petition. the. first combmatwn, and the other Several more of the tennis can- pairing lists Exner and Lakshmi- didates have been hitting the ball i narsu. important ring see our showing of truly fine diamonds and inquire about: our extended payment plan· A. $ 90.00 B. $125.00 c. $150.00 D. $200.00 E. $325.00 Serving S clzenectady For Three Generations Fred Davies, Jack Judge, and the left field post and Hobie De- Cleveland 3 Philadelphia Sports Calendar Charlie Mosher will all return.· PI uyt. wtillf~ 10 1 dld d.otwh. n cBe~llterBifield .. Detroit 4 Boston SATURDAY-Baseball, Union a.t Dick Nemeth and John Shade, both n l'lgh Je ' el er 1 oom- Chicago 5 St. Louis I of who p' layed quarterback in the field or Gene Schwartzman will get Syracuse. the nod. Bloomfield has been. Washington 6 Chicago Track, Union vs. Rochester. ~-R,~su~ {)\\l\\ll~A\ sl JEHUfS \T\ last season, are back. showing -some power at the plate. St. Louis 7 Cinc!Iinati J. V. Lacrosse, Union vs. Williams Bucky Wittner, who looked im- and might be the only freshman to' :Hoboken 8 Pittsburgh WEDNESDAY-Baseball, Union vs. pressive in spots last season will ,break into the starting lineup. Hiller nominated Cousin Frank Middlebury return but Wittner was not con- Gene is a better player defe.nsively, :Hiller as sophomore of the year. Lacrosse, Union vs. Williams sistent enough to be labeled, as yet, but he has not exhibited very much _______________ _;_ __ -,'--~------_:::_::::...__ as number one fullback. Bob !'ley- savvy as a hitter. If the pitching' del was a fairly rugged fullback staff weakens during the course of for the frosh team. the season, Lawrence will use De- Puy.t on the hill and probably fill Union grid fans will welcome the his spot with either Bloomfield, addition of Len Klingberg to the Schwartzman or Dick Henry. team. Two years ago, Klingberg was the star of an outs tanding ffittlng Needed frosh quartet and he shoy;ed him- The success of the season will self to be a very impressive and depend, of course, on how the versatile halfback. He might fit pitche~s hold up, and whether the into the tailback's spot in the hitters come through. DePuyt may single wing. be the big power man in the line- up, but Krupa, Schmidt ar:d Kaz- With the· loss of quite a few nowski have looked impressive standbys from the past three year's with the lumber. Two southpaws, clubs, Bmnmerstrom will certainly Jim Hogan and Hank Kapmeyer, have :his wo:~;]{ cl,lt out for him next will back up McQuade on· the season. Of course, the •Class of ;55 mound. will be eligible for com:petition and Syracuse will open their season: so!Ue jl'OOd men may come out ot : tomorrow, so not too much is th:at, But you can't bank on it. known about their team. From Pard\>D. t):le deviation from the \pre-season\ reports, it looks as spring sports line, .but :from this though CoaGh Kleinhans will field a very strong squad. The Big Or- vantage point in the Concordy of- ange will count heavily on sophs flee, you can't miss the practice Wiseman an:d Serley along with sessions on Library Field. The first baseman Tom Carroll for their sight is somewhat nostalgic. (Continued on Pag.e 6) Make it clear ·' Darkness is really making time since he ARROW \BI·WAY\ The new Jli-Way's amazing \Arafold\ collar is the most coJil{ortable you've ever woril. ••• looks wonderful open-or closed, with a tie. $4.50 ARROW sHIRTS & TIES \;\--:!~~...::: UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS 166 JAY ST.-Opposite Mohican Wear It As A Dress Shirt Wear h As A Sports Shirt Ann ow BJ ... WAY • Revolutionary \Arafold\ collar! • Amazing new collar comfort! • Two handy pockets! A new double-purpose shirt • • . right for any occa• sion. Wear the collar open sports-style, wear it closed with a tie for dress. Very important: the new \Arafold\ collar is the last word in comfort because of its vanishing neckhand and seamless collar facing • •• ask U:s fo1· the \Bi-W ay\ today. NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE STREET .__ ______ FOR ARROW UNIVI!RSiiY STYLf!S _, _____ _..

. : ~ i FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1951 6 I. We who are about to die • • • \~ive Creatively.\ Is Theine Frie~d~ Secretary Of Lewis Novels-- Wainger ·To VIsit Tuesday .Art 20b (History & Apprec. of TUESDAY, JUNE 5; Ray Hartsough, college secretary Painting & Sculpture) 1:~0-4:30 p, M. for the American Friends Service Examinations will ·be held in the<$•>--------~----------~-----------~­ Gymnasium unless otherwise di- rected. The final examination in Draw- ing 3b will be given during the last class period. Econ. 52b (Economic Theory) Greek lb (Elements of Greek) In a series of three chapel talks in the past two weeks, Committee in the Middle Atlantic Psychology 1b (Generai) German 22b (1gth Century Lit-· Professor Max Wainger gave the student body· an insight region, will be on ~he campus ·On Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Miss Bouck in the Dean's Office before Friday, Ma.y 18, 1951. Psychology llb (Psych. of Per- erature) . t h k Tuesday, April 24, to speak with. sonality) G<>vemment 12 b (Introduction tb Ill 0 t · e wor S of Sinclair Lewis. : interested studen,ts about the sum- E. 29. <Electrical Engineering Government) Has Not Lost Punch .. . mer projects and- other programs· Theory) Government 44b (National Policy· · of the Service Committee. He• will Lewis' aim to highlight the b ail bl f i t · I Sll • FRIDAY, JUNE 1; 8:30-11:30 A.M. Formation) pears that the author has lost ht's e av a e or n ervrews n h- s faults of American society, the · m H 11 f t t •· 1 k French lOb <Introduction to .s. 53. <British Economic Ex- temper and the .portrayal becomes an a: -rom one o wo o,c oc , mass production ·and consequent d f f t f' • J k. French Literature) perience, 1914-45.) • almost a caricature, not a very an rom our (} · 1ve o c oc on MONDAY, MAY 28; 8:3o-11:30 A.M. standardization, the lack of com- T d ft French 20b <French Civ. of the 19th Century) French 21b <The Age of Enlight- ment) History 21b (Modern & Contem- porary Europe; Germany & Russia in Europe, 1815 to Present) Economics 45b (Public Finance) Chemistry 24 (Chemical & Scien- tific Literature) French 12. (Composition) Mathematics 21b (Differential prehension of w 0 rld affairs is still high form of art. Likewise, in ues ay a · ernoon. Spanish lOb (Spanish American Equations & Advanced Calculus) t \Arrowsmith the author d!'splayc After being .graduated frm Hart- ...,. imely and has not lost its punch, \' · Literature) m .. athematics 31b (Advanced Cal- d!lclared Professor Wainger. only the charlatans in. his study of· ford Theological Seminary .in 1il37', Economics llb <Eelemntary) Sec. culus) ·the medical profession so that the Mr. Hartsough served pastorates -in 2 & 5 in E.E. 22 Education 3b (History & Prin- Lewis had an abi:lity to inake his picture given to the reader Is en- Ohio and Iowa. In 1949 he repre- Economics 39b <International ciples of Education) · charcaters real; always satil'izing, tirely distorted. Lewis' works sented the American Friends Serv- rrade & Exchange) E. 15. (:Elements of Electrical finding .fault not using subleties stand as a plea to American so- ice Committee in pa1'ts of Pales- E. 39b <Sewage) Machinery) or hints but maldng sure of all his ciety to live creatively and as an· tine, where he helped distribute re- E. 48. (Power Electronics) WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6; points. Great worlts of art often . indictment for neglecting and dis- lief supplies to Arab villages and Mathematics la (Analytic Geo- metry & Algebl.'a) Mathematics lb <Algebt·a & Dif- ferential Calculus) E. 49. <Communications) 8:30-11:30 A.M. \leave much unsaid: LeWis leaves couraging creative artistry. sponsored a program of r~concilia- FRIDAY, JUNE 1; 1:30-4:30 P.M. English 25b <The English nothing unsaid or to the imagii1-. tion between Arabs and Jews. Art 27 <Aesthetics) ) Drama) ation of the reader, Wainger said. Mathematics 2b (Anal. Geom. & Calcul~s) See. 5 & 6 in E.E. 22 Mathematics lla <Differential & Integral Calculus) Ecor..omics 43b ( Econ. of Trans- S .. S. 2Bb (American Constitutional portation) Development) S.S. 55b (Techniques & Ideology) Sociology 57b <Comparative So- \Main Street\ is a study of the parochialism of Gopher Prairie and the rebe!Uon of Carol Ken- nicott. Separated by .class distinc- tion, the ignomnt, narrow-minded villagers demand conformities to their Middle-West mores. With smug satisfaction, they believe their way of living to be the best and only w'ay. Mathematics llb !Integral Cal- culus) Mathematics 12b <Differential & Integral Calculus) Sec. 1 in E.E. 22 Mathematics 22b <Integral Cal- culus) E. 31-b <Structural Design) in C.E. 303 E. 37b <Seminar) in E.E. 16 MONDAY, MAY 28; 1:30-4:30 P.M· Greek 21b (Advanced Course) English 26b <The English Ren- aissance) Econ. 37b <Problems -of Labor & Industrial Management) Science 50b <An Approach to Modern Science) E. 20b (Mech. of Materials for CE) E. 26b <Mech. of Materials for EEl TUESDAY, MAY 29; 8:30-11:30A.M. French 2b (Second Year) German 2b <Second Yearl German lOb <Introduction to Modem German Literature) German 11. <Conversation) in L.B. 4 Spanish 2b !Second Year) E. 24. <Concrete) E. 35. <Engineering Law) TUESDAY, MAY 29; 1:30-4:30 P.M. Latin llb <Reading of Selected Prose) English 18 <Modern American Novell !II Comparative Literature 25b (In- trod. to the Study of Comp. Lit.) History 23b (Latin American & the Outside World) S.S. 41b <Governmental Economic Policy) Physics 22- <Physical Optics) Psychology 12b <Statistical Methods) E. 44. <Machine Design) E. 45. (Basic Structures) WEDNESl)A.Y, MAY 30; 8:30-11:30 A.. M. English llb <Radio Writing & Production) English 23b <The Romantic Period) S.S. 50b (Social & Political Phil- osophy) Biology lb <General) Biology llb <Zoology & Compara- tive Anatomy of Vertebi\ates) Biology 2lb <Embryology) Geology 22b (Economic Geology) Physics 32. <Kinetic Theory of Heat) Psychology 25. (Social Psy- chology) E. 27b (Heat Engines) in C.E. 301 & 303 E. 41. (A.C. Machinery) WEQNJ;<:SDA )\ MAY 30: 1:30-4:30 P.M. Spanish 20b (Spanish Literature of the Golden Age)) History 16b (History of th& United States) Econ. 40b (Accounting) ) Econ. 46b <Advanced Account- ing) Psychology 26b <Developmental Psych.) Air Science 3b (First Year Ad- vanced) Air Science 4b (Second Year Ad- vanced) THURSDAY, MAY 31; 8:30-11:30 A.M. English 30b (American Later- ature) French 1b (Elementary) German lb (Elementary) Spanish 1b (Elementary) Russian lb (Elementary) Philosophy 34b !American Phil- osophy) E. llb <Analytical Mechanics) THURSDAY, MAY 31; 1:30-4:30 P.M. Famous Chinese and American Foods LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS · 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595 Chemistry lb <General) Sec. 1, 2 , eial Institutions) 3, 8 in C.L. 201; Sell. 5 & 7 in E.E. Chemistry 27. <Colloid Chemistry) 22; Sec. 4 & 6 in C.E. 106 Geology 24b <Prod. of Geology & Chemistry 2b (General-ES in the Hist. & Lit. of Geol.) Chern.) in E.E. 22 Physics 4b <Classical & Modern) Chemistry llb <Quantitative Ana- Sfc, 7 & 8 in E.E. 22 lysis) Physics 14b <Topics in General Chemistry 21b <Physical) Ph;ysics) Sec. 1 in E.E. 22 Chemistry 22b <Physical) Physics 25a <Principles of Elec- Chemistry 31. <Advanced Inor- tronics) r anic Chemistry) Physics 25b <Principles of Elec- SATURDAY, JUNE 2; tror.ics) 8:30-11•30 A.M. Physics 26. (Introduction to Max- Latin 1b <Elements of Latin) well's Field Equations) Economics 3&b <Corporation Fin- WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6; ance) 1:30-4•30 P.M. Sociology 18b <Intr·oduction to Spanish 12. (Composition) Social Organization) History 22b (Renaissance & Re- E. 1b <Engineering Drawing) formation, 1400-1648) C.E. 301 & 303 History 27b (Modern & Contem- SATURDAY, JUNE 2; porai\y England, 1689 to the Pre- 1:30-4:30 P.M. sent) History 33b <The u.s. in the 20th Government 48b !State & Local Century) . Government in Practice) Economics 49a <Business Statis- Biology 13b (Biological Concepts tics) & Theories) Chemistry 12b (Organic) Geology 14b <Paleontology in Geology lb (General) G.L. 21 Geology 2b <Engineering) Mathematics 2a <Trig. & Anal. Mathematics 24b (Geometry) · Geom.) MONDAY, JUNE 4; 8:3o-U:30 A.M. Music 1b <History & Appreciation of Music) English 22b (The 18th Century) History 32b (Social & Intellectual . History of the U.S.) Government 47b (The Role of the U.S. in World Politics) Biology 12b <Botany) Chemistry 25b <Advanced Ana- ---01---- Artist Visits Here- Mr .. Bartolo Bracaglia of the art firm of Palma and Company, Rome, Italy, will be an artist in residence at Union College for a period of six months, it was an- nounced yesterday by President Carter Davidson. lytical) Geology 12b (Geology & Physi- ography of the U.S.) in. G.L .. 23 Physics 34. !Electromagnetic Fields) E. 31b !Structures) MONDAY, JUNE 4; 1:30-4:30 P.M. In addition to aiding students and painting, Mr. Bracaglia, who is an expert in the restoration and repair of paintings, will clean and restore several canvases in the Union College art collection. English 24b (The Victorian Era) History lb (Hist. of West. Civ.) SeC. 1, 6, 7 in E.E. 22 S.S. lOb (Logic & Scientific Method) Philosophy 17b (Introduction to Philosophy) Philosophy 29b (History of Ideas in West. Civ.) Biology 22b <General Physiology) Education 4b <Educational Psych. & Gen. Principles of Teaching) E. 28b !Highways & Airports) TUESDAY, JUNE 5; 8:30-11:30 A.M. English lb <Freshman English) Sec. 4 & 12 in E.E. 22 English lOb !Introduction to English Lit.) Sec. 3 in E.E. 22 English 2lb (Shakespeare) Psychology 24b (Applied Psych.) 01--- Baseball <Continued from Page '5) hitting power. The Syracuse coach looks to these men to hit over .300 for the season. Pitching is going to be the problem for the Hillmen. There is a good chance that Bucky Roche will start the game against the Dutchmen and he will be the big gun for the team, having a 4-4 record from last year. The Garnet nine will open their home season, when they face the Middlebury Panthers Wednesday, on .Alexander Field. The Dutch- men will be out to avenge a 9-6 di\ubbing at the hands of the visitors last season. r---------------------------- 1 WEAR : I I DISTINCTIVE MEN'S Satire on Rusiness \Babbitt Lewis' representation of the successful American busi- nessman, appears inconsistent to Professor Wainger, since the au-· thor's portrayal is essentially that of a stupid individual. However the speaker declared he ha:s bee~ assured by his students that there is no inconsistency between sue- · cess and stupidity. George Bab- bitt believes himself to be the epi- tome of efficiency, rotarianism, prohibitionism and democracy. Lewis' hot undisciplined temper often works to the detriment of his literature, according to Wain- gel'. In \Elmer Gantry,\ it ap- Make it clear Afiit ~~ MRt ~~ J New Srker\21 11 only $5~ Oh·-·~ \Fast starter, isn't heV\ \Just like my '21 ' Pent\ \Reminds me-my '2J• is a regular come/, Har<!ly ever needs a drink.\ I I I I I Capital Men 1 S Shop~ Inc., I I I I 1 167 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. : I '-----~-------~-------------1 Make it clear make it ••• \ \ '21 'givesyoufa.te'r filling and <:1 vWblo ink supply.'' Precision-built by the makers of the famous New Parker\ 51\. Smart style, better-writing features seldom offered at even twice the price. wr:.,ITINo's fun with the New \21\! You glide through schoolwork on a super-smooth point of Octanium, the wonderful new 8-metal alloy. A special regulator measures ink flow to your writing pace .... prevents skips, blurs, and degrading blots. The new-type \21\ ink chamlieris Pli-glass for enduring, trouble-free service. (No rubber to rot!) It stores more ink ..• lets you see the ink level fat- easy checking. Filling the \21\ is easier, faster! New style, latest precision features, real economy are yolirs in New Parker \21 \. See it at your nearby pen dealef's in blue, green, red, black. Lustraloy slip-oil cap. Choice ofpoilits. For double pleasure, get.the New \21\ Pen with matching pencil~$8. 75. At gift-hinting time, hint for the finest of all-New Parker \51 \I New Parker \51\ and \21\ Pens \write dry\ with Superchroine Ink. No blotters needed! (They also use o.ther inks.) Copr. 7957 by The Parker Pen·Companr .

• 20, 1951 1. etary sday ~e secretary nds Service dle .Atlantic campus on speak with ut the sum- ii' programs· tee. He• will ews in SitU- two o1elock , 1 o'clock. on d frm Hart- Lary in i~3'1', last orates ~in 49 he !'epre- 'riends Serv- ~s of Pales- listribute re- vlllages and •f reconcilia- i Jews. vesyoulasfer nd o visible supply.'' rt vel fot faster! Jnomy 1earby ;traloy ~a sure, ·$8.75. ' D.ate lists Due In Concordy Of.fice Tues., :1:00 p.m. Vol. 78, No. 23 Founded at Union C()llege in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y ••• FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1951 • Prom Ticket Prices: Raised to $8.40 After Wed., Eve. PRICE 10 CENTS Walrath, Odell Elected Council Officers Rev. Fulton Ap.pointed As Colle:ge Chaplain NEXT YEAR'S EXCHANGE STUDENTS ·Election Turnout Light After Quiet Campaign;s The Rev .. Dr. Robert B. Fulton has been appointed Pro- fessor of 'Religion and Chaplai11 of Union College, President Carter Davidson announced yesterday. Dr. Fulton wi'll as- In quiet. elections held Wednesday and Thursday of this week, Davtd Walrath and Thomas Odell were elected Presi- dent and Secretary of the Student Council, respectively. sume the duties- -of college chaplain 011 Sept. 1, 1951. Applications Considered ~ S • . X e The appointment was announced Igma 1 after several months consideration' T I N . • . of different applicants for the posi-' • ay or ew Honors t·o tion by members of the Executive committee of the Board of Chapel IFC H d Associates. The executive commit-' • . ' ' ea·· . Six undergraduate and four tee is composed of both facu1ty' members and students. . , 1 graduate stu d en t s were The position of chaplain has been: Willard Taylor was elected presi- DEAN E. BENSLEY JAN C. WALKER elected yesterday to associate vacant tl:).is year since the Chaplain dent of the Interfraternity Coun- membership in Sigma Xi, na- C. Victor Brown left last October cil at its meeting Tuesday night. . to assume the positiori' of Executive Robert Hochuli was elected to the B l w lk N d tlonal science honor society, director of the Institute of World· office of vice president and Jo- ens ey, . a er . ame according to Dr. Clifford H. Affairs. seph Handler will be the council's Pearce, secretary of the local Dr. Futon's duties will consist or' new secretary-treasurer. Before St A d E h group. Three men were spea,king at the Sunday and week- the elections were held the coun- n rews XC anges l day chapel servi 9 es and making. cil discussed next year's rushirg 0 . · · ·. . · · e ected to full membership in arrangements for guest preachers. rules, the fraternity booklet and D.ean E. Bensley and Jan C. Walker will r\'present Unl'on the society. His teaching responsibilities wil1. plans for the IFG Sing. C 11 t S \' Associate Members consist of .teaching a course in re- William G1'eve, outgoing vice 0 ege a t. Andrews University, Scotland, next year as Men elected to associate mem- . Small Turnout After a week of non-campaign- . ing in accordance with an agree- ment reached among the four can- didates, which included daily chapel announcements and a loud- speaker set-up atop the library by WRUC on the days of the polling, ~ approximately 28% of the Student Body turned out for the voting. Walrath received 173 votes to op- ponents John Moses's 98, while Odell polled 178 to Leslie Couch~s 87. Elections for the Council officers were held in Dewey Hall in prefer- ence to previous locations. It was felt that this more centrally located polling place would facilitate vot- ing for a larger percentage of the student body. ligion and perhaps an additional president, moved that the Council part of the annual student exchange between the two schools. bership are David Berley, Robert course. Also he will serve as lengthen the rushing period for · Inaugurated in 1985 Engisch, John Ostrom, Leslie Ru- \Full Tlme\ Job counselor to students as well as next year from four to six weeks. , dolf, Robert .Schwartz, Robert being adviser to the Christian as- Greve pointed out that when the The two sophomores were elected D K t t West, Hubert Keily, Albin Rzeszo- Walrath, in a statement to the sociation a!ld the Campus Chest Council voted for a shorter rush- this week after a-special committee . ean, . e z . 0 tarski, Robert Schaefer, and Paul Concordiensis, said that he was Committee. ing period earlier this year there had studied applications and con- Schissel. Professor H. Gilbert Har- rather disappointed at the num- . Majored in English were five repr-esentatives absent ducted interviews ·Of qualified can- R·ev;ew D· raft ' low, Charles Brochner, and Gerry 'bers turning out for the election, The son of an Illinois minister, ar d two members abstained from didates. The final decision was 11 Allard were elected to full mem- and hoped that better publicity and Robert Fulton majored in English voting. ThE) council rr.oved to have made on a basis of scholarship, in- bership. active campaigning next year in Yale College.. In 1935 he entered the representatives discuss this terest in activities and all-around There will be a discussion of the Berley and Schwartz are both would bring about a larger turn- Union Theological Seminary where. change with their respective personality. new draft regulations and the physics majors and members of aut. He stated that he believed the he majored in Chrj.stian Ethics and houses and be able to vote on the This is the third consecutive year qualifying test in Memorial Chapel Kappa Nu. Engisch is a pre-med Council presidency was a full-time did field work in· New York City motion at the Council's next meet- that two Union men will be sent Monday at noon with Dean C. Wil- and a member of Chi Psi. He was job which should come before par- churches. Ordained as a Presby- ing. (Dean William Huntley and to St. Andrews in the excp.S.nge liam Huntley and Wilford Ketz, elected to Phi Beta Kappa last ticipation in other activities, and terian minister, he acted as Eco- V'iilford Ketz, Coordinator of stu- that was inaugUrated in 1935. Only Coordinator of Student Activities, week. Rudolf is a pre-med and a he hoped that student interest and nOJ:p.ics Secretary for the National dent Activities sent letters to each. one student from St. Andrews has speaking-. member of Phi Sigma Kappa. West support for the Council would run Intercollegiate Christian Council house this week urging the adop- been invited to Union for next Dean Huntley and Mr. Ketz will is an electrical engineer. Keily, higher this year. for six months. tion of a longer rushing per-iod). year, since there .is no assurance try to answer questions which con- Rzeszotarskl, Schaefer, and Schis- Odell, in expressing his views on At the New York School for So- Plan to Save $200 that a group will be able to finance cern student deferment. Along the sel are graduate students in chem- the issue, commented that he cial Research, he did advanced John Franke, editor of the Fra- o~e, according to Dean C. William lines of the qualifying test, a state- istry. \hoped this year would be better · E · d p Huntley. This year, one of the ex- t · d f p f 1 · f ' h 1 \ H work 1n conornlCs un er . ro- ternity Orientation Booklet, an- men was 1ssue rom the office of ro essor Har ow is chauman o c an . ast. e would like the stu- feasor Heimann. From 1939 to 1941, nounced that 300 copies would change students was sponsored by General Lewis B. Hershey, Selec- the civil engineering department; dents to support the Student Coun- he served as lecturer at Yenching cost ·between $120 and $140 de- Sigma Phi as part of the HELP tive Service Director, this week, to Brochner is a formev member of cil more than they have and hoped U · ·t · p k\ Ch' · h r program. The Graduate Counc1\l an- the ff t th t II II th I t · 1 · ' f It th t ld b I mvers1 y m · e mg ma, w e e pending on the number .of pages e ec a· a co ege men e e ec nca engmeer1ng acu y; a more wou e accomp ished he taught courses in Christian in the booket. lie stated that nually sponsors one of the St. An- eligible for the draft must take the and Allard is a graduate student with less argument than in the Ethics and English. There he each additional 100 booklets could drews students, furnishing their test. The statement suggested that in physics. past. t di d Chi ·th · t room and board. a 1 t' b t · t R h c 'd ed s u e nese W1 a pnva e be purchased for only $4.80. This new regu a ton may e pu m o esearc oils1 er tutor. means that the Council could pur- Pay Tuitio-n Here effect requiring both a passing The society of Sigma Xi elects Chaplain Fulton earned is Ph.D. chase a three year supply of book- The Union exchange students grade of 70 on the qualifying test to associate membership those MountebankS Give in Christian •Ethics at Yale Div- Jets for about $~70. Pranke urged I ~ay their tuition here before leav- ·and a standing in one's class that seniors who have taken at least . inity School, on a dissertation en- that the Counml adopt this plan mg for Scotland at the end of the would vary with his year. Present half their worlt In science and ·Road Pe f titled \Religious Assumptions in since it would l'esult in a saving summer. Their,room and board is. freshmen must be in the upper engineering and have a general f ormance the Systems of Adam Smith and in the neighborhood of $200. Since payed for by st. Andrews. Studying half, sophomores in the upper two- index of at least 3.500. Special con- Karl Marx.\ He then served sev- the balace in the treasury will this year under the exchange are thirds and juniors in the upper sideration is given to students who era! months as traveling speaker . cover the cost of only 300 booklets Fred s. Kantor and Ronald Q. three quarters. However, nothing have shown promise of ability in for the World Student Service the council members voted to ask Jennett. definite along these lines has been research work:. Election to full Fund. each house to pay .about three dol- Bensley, a civil engineer, is from done. membership in the society usually In 1943, he returned to ~China to lars to make this saving possible. Kenmore, N. Y. A member of Chi \Oollege M»rale Revised\ follows the completion of an orig- serve as Yale-in- China Trustee re- After hearing a report on the Psi fraternity, he is on the lacrosse President Carter Davidson added inal investigation of importance presentative. More recently he has Social Projects undertaken by the team. in pure or applied science. · •- ht t H h u · s'ty to the opinion of many other edu- \\'ug a uac ung mver 1 .as council, Vice President Greve said Walker, a social studies maJ'or, Initiation to the society will be A · ta t p f f Appl'ed cators in a recent statement sup- h ld M ss1s · n ro essor o 1 that these proJ·ects were .a step 1 ·n is from Reading, Penna. He was a e Tuesday, ay 8. Ch i t . 't d E · porting the Hershey directive. r s Jam Y an ° 0 n ° m 1 c lhe right direction and urged that member of the freshman cross Seniors elected last December in· Th ht ith · Th 1 · While all college men will still oug w courses m eo og1- the new council continue this type country team and of the college elude Edward Clark, Joseph Gab- 1 D t t d th E n m 'cs have to serve in the Armed Forces, ca · epar men an · e . co o 1 of work next year. Harry Petr:ak dance band. riels, Frank Lord, and Nicholas Department k d th t T they will be better equipped to Saviano, · • . t as e a the fraternities con- he committee on selection con- serve their country more ably after Dr. Fulton is married to he sider a plan whereby d 1 'fferen· t sisted of President Carter D_nvl·d.· ---o·--~ f An Ed d h W ·· .... . . . finishing college. The new order b orme 1 r N ne y kwacr·ts wb tog as houses would invite other men to· son, Dean Huntley, Wilford· H. will also serve to raise the morale Rathslieller .Manager orn n ew or 1 y, u rew dinner hereby mving fratern 1 'ty Ketz, Professor John Henderson, i P k . Ch' M Fult .,. of college men, Dr. Davidson Schmt•dt Elected New up n e mg, ma. rs. on men a chance to become better ac- Prof. Carl A. Niemeyer, Robert stated. He said: ·. . is a graduate of Mt. Holyolte Col- quainted. Ehgisch, Edward LeMay, Robert Calvin Schmidt was elected· gen- lege and Yale University school of The IFC Sing wm be held in Campbell and Donald Bunce. \Union College, perhaps because era! manage!' of the Dutchmen's Public Health. Memorial Chapel Friday May· 4 th. It has an Air Force ROTC unit, Rathskeller fat· n<'xt year at a o · Singing groups are asked to be has never suffered a bad slump in meeting held this week. R bb • T lk t 5 Q Q t student mora·Je due to the draft Other officers named were John a ' \I . a s presen or 10 minutes before they uazy U0 e J'itters. The grades recei'ved by F T 11; are scheduled to appear in case . homas, business manager; and the schedule must be speeded up. students in mid-semester reports John B. Rees, Jt., secretary and In case of withdrawal contact Joe An ti t i h · al were the best in recent history supervisor of public -relations. Handler, Kappa Nu or Willard. d ego t 8 a guy: 0 18 ways I Nevertheless, a settled policy by Elections for r.ext year's Execu- T 1 P me eep n conversa on. the Federal government would tive Council will be held at the ay or, si Upsilon. -Groucho Miarx I help greatly in campus morale.\ next meeting. The Rev. Dr. Abraham J. Feld- man, of Temple Beth Israel, Hart- ford, Conn., will be the speaker at the regular serv1ce of worship Sunday at 11 a.m. in Memorial ~~;~~~~~~l~:an1ewtol'lc~~ Selection of Queen to Highlight \Sans Gene\ Prom Dr. Feldman has been v.ery ac- For the first .time in the recent<$> . Final arrangements have been set for the Mountebanks road trip to East Greenbush for their last performance of \The Glass· Menag- erie\ by Tennessee Williams. The play will be presented on Wednesday, May 2, under the auspices of the East Greenbush- Nassau Kiwanis C1ub, The Mounte- banks will play before an audience of about 1300 people and a stage much larger than the one in Hanna Hall. Rie In Lead Mr. :Opnald S. Jones, director, feels that the experience of play- ing before such a large .group In a strange theater will benefit all those taking part. Mr. Jones also revealed that Herbert Rie will play the role of Tom Wingfield:, which was portrayed by Don Doherty when the play was done here in February. Others in the cast in· elude Elaine Glunder as Amanda,. Anne Marie Smith as Laura and Richard G. Heimann as the Gen- tleman Caller. This will mark the first Mounte- banks road trip since before the war. ---01--- tiv:e In a wide variety of coromun- history of Union College, a prom I . . . . ity activities. He is now editor of queen will be crowned. On Friday, ~lymg their newly perfected Opm- She will also be titular head of night to 12:30. WRUC will also \The Jewish Ledger\ and Is a past May 4, at the ''Sans Gene\ Prom wn Meter to record the judging. the \Combination Program\ to be record interviews at the pr-om president of the Central Conference · the queen will be chosen by ~ . The Prom committee stated that presented Saturday at sunset in which will be rebroadcast on Man- of American Rabbis. Be is a· mem- panel of six professional models: they felt that the use of feminine Jackson's Gardens. The winners of day, May 7, at 11:00 p.m. At that ber of the board of director of the procured by the G'enera1 Electric officials would permit a more im- the Interfraternity Sing, to be held time, they will also rebroadcast'· Ha.rtford Council of Adult Educa- Co. partial judging of contestants. · Friday at 7:30 in Memorial Chapel, the final choosing of the Queen, as Sing Schedule Order of appearance: l. Phi Sigma Delta .... ,. 7:80 tion and of the United War and Each fraternity is permitted to Of the more than 18 contestants will team up with the Glee club in well as her Coronation Ceremonies. Community . Funds of Connecticut, ·submit one contestant for the judg- expected, the field will be nar- presenting a program of music. As There will also be an interview a commissioner of the Hartford ingl Every independent group of rowed down to seven, from whieh in the past, students and dates with the Queen, a record of which • Fellowship . Commission, .and vice• over 20 men will also be permitted II a queen will be chosen. This final will attend and enjoy the proceed- will be presented to her by the ptesldent of the Connecticut Com- one entrant. AU groups should have judging will begin promptly at ings from blankets. station. mission for Displaced Persons. He t:b.eir entrant ·chosen in advance so: 11:00, Just before WQY is to go Although nothing has been de- The Prom committee announced is the author of several books. that they will be ready when called on the air with a broadcast of the cided upon at this time, the Queen that on Wednesday night, May 2, Dr. Feldman will ·represent the .for at the preliminary judging music of Larry Green's band one may also start the lacrosse game the price of tickets will go up from Jewish Chautauqua Society, which which will begin at 10:15. of the seven will be crowned Queen to be held Sl\-turday on Daley Field. the usual price of $7. 20 to $8. 4 o. is sponsored by the National Fed- A list of the nam~s of th~ 20 in- I of th~ Junio_r Promenade, and the To Pre~nt P~ogi'ilm Representatives tn all the fratern- eration of Temple Brotherhoods to. d~pendents sponsoring then can- remaming stx will act as her at- At 11:30, radiO station WGY will ity houses and proms will be sell- send Rabbi lectures to college cam- d1dates mus~ ?: submitted to the .tendants. present a half-hour program of the ing tickets up to that time at the puses as a. part of an, educational. Student Achv1bes office no later . Mter the co.ronation ceremonl~s. 1 music of Larry Green, to be foi-l usual price. Tickets may be pur- progr!lim to disseminate authentic, than noon on Thursd~y, May. 3. the. Queep. Will preside over the lloweq _by WRUC\s p;esentation of , chased only at the student Act! vi- information concerning Judaism. The General Electnc Co. is sup- prom and a cl,ance in her honor. Bernie Mann's music from mid-I ties office after Wednesday. -. 2. Alpha Delta Phi ...... 7:35 3. Chi Psi .............. 7:40 4. Sigma Chi ............ 7:45 5. Delta Phi ............ 7:50 6. Sigma Phi ............ 7:55 7. Phi Upsilon •......... 8:00 8. Beta Theta Phi ....... 8:05 9. Phi Delta Theta ....... 8:10 10. Delta Upsilon ......... 8:15 11. Phi Gamma Delta .... 8:20 12. Kappa Nu ............ 8:25 13. Kappa Alpha .......... 8:30 14. Delta Chi ............. 8:35

i ,, I .·I. .i i ! .. 2 Qhm:rnr e llttnnt.a Member As!!oclated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor ot the Collegiate Dl!l\est. National Adver- tising Representative: Na... tiona! Advertising Service, Tnc., College Publishers Representative, ~20 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Off!ce,Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- llcation Office, The Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered In the Seheooc- tady Poet Ottlce M Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription lOc a copy; $3 year delivered any- where in the United States. SENIOR BOARD JAY N. COHN '52 ...................................... Editor-In-Chief MARTIN SIEG BL '51 .. , . ,. • , ..•. , , ..... , .... , ..... , . Associate Editor DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 •...•..... , •..•..• , ••... , .Manag'!ng Editor WILLARD G. TAYLOR '62 , . , , •.....•.. , , ... , •. , •...•.... News Editor Jl!~ROME GARTNER '52 .... , .............................. Page Editor MARVIN L. KOHN '63 ................................... Page Editor JOHN J. CASSIDY '53 •• , ......... , ........ ,. .. • . • • • .. • • Sports Editor ROBERT C. SMITH '52 ..•.....•.•.•••••.. , ••. , •. , .• , . • Feature Editor LEO Kl'PPERSCH:.\IID '5~ ................. , ... , , .. Business Manager GEORGE F. HEDI~U'TON '52 ..........•...• , •.•. Circulation :llanager JUNIOR BOARD ARTHUR M. STOCKMAN '52 .............................. Copy Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 .............. ,. . Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE W. LEVINE '53 ........................ Exchange Editor JOSEPH K. HANDLER '52 , ••.•..• , .• , . , • Assistant Business Manager FEATURE STAFF Thomas Donlon, Peter Fyfe, Alfred Kingon, Myron Komar, John Moses, Hobert Murray. REPORTERS Irwin Barg Philip Beuth, Alfred Goldberger, Martin Gordon, Herbert Hiller, Wolcott Hubbd\, Lewis Klein, Jerome Klein, William Mohr- mann, Martin Portnoy, David Smith, Herbert Spira, Kenneth Coryell, David Frost, Leonard Levine. PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF .._Ian Forman, John Stebbins, !<'ranK Skutsch. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Jam<\ D\Sorbo Chari~~ Little, Gerald Robert, Robert Silverman, George \Vrubel. CIROUI,ATION STAFF Rohert Strand Horace Van Voast, George Putman, Curtis Bates, David Strffanhagen,' Culver Hayes, J. Lowell Davis, \Vllliam \Vinrhester, Joseph Martin, Robert Seydel. Gone But Not Forgotten It appears that that old election spirit, once an integral part of Union campus life, has disappeared. Balloting for student council officers was held this week, and the occasion hardly made enough noise to be heard from Bailey Hall to Dewey Hall, where the voting was held. There we1·e no colorful posters, no fireworks, no costumed enter- tainers, no free beer-and none of the high-pitch spirit usual- ly associated with college elections. This week's election resulted in another poor turnout- little more than one fourth of the student body voted. But perhaps the blame for such a disinterested electorate can be layed partly on the candidates themselves, who do not seem to care enough about their campaign to get the campus into the \voting spirit.\ The biggest step toward a revival of student interest would be a return of active campaigning on campus, some- thing like RPI's week-long festivities which culminated last week in a 75 pel' cent vote of the undergraduates. Instead of \mutual agreements\ for non-campaigning, we need an attitude of \the sky's the limit.\ We miss those good old days of riotous chapels, dancing girls and wild campaigning. Let us hope they aren't gone forever. That Worldy Touch We were pleased to hear this week that two students will again be sent to study at St. Andrews University next year, for the value of that annual exchange program cannot be overemphasized. The fact that each yem· so many Union sophomores anxiously seek the St. Andrews exchange is a good indication that the time they spend in Scotland is both enjoyable and valuable. We hope the St. Andrews boys who come to Union find their year well spent. Certainly their presence on cam- pus is a definite asset to the college. Union has in the past several years turned more and more eosmopolitan. Nineteen foreign countries are repre- sented in the student body and Union men are thereby of- fered a chance to become better acquainted with fol·eign at- titudes and traditions. To be \aware\ in these troubled times, a man must be familiar with views besides those of his own countrymen. We hope the foreign element on this campus continues to grow in size, and that more and more Union men are given the opportunity to study abroad to share in other nationsl cultures. But we also hope that Union students are making the most of the presence of \guests'' on the campus. The op- portunity is· there. It is necessary only to tap that vast source of foreign atitudes which these students have brought with them. To see ourselves as others see us ... The Case Is Closed In the whirl of college activities a decision of great im- portance slipped by almost unnoticed. It was the official stamp of disapproval which the Faculty Council recently placed on the year system. The decision to revert back to the regular semester basis next year was no surprise to anyone, since it was predicted here and by college officials some time ago. However, it cleal'ly proved one thing to us: the Faculty Council is big enough to admit it made a mistake. FRJDAY. APRIL 27, 1951 Letters to the Editor Difficult Technical Job Solved by Mountebanks Writers Answer Singe1·, Open Letter to Edwin Paul Singer: Dear Sir: Ordinarily, I would not waste my time answering such a bitter and unjustified (not to mention juve- nile) letter as the one which you sent to the Concordiensis last week. There are two reasons why I do so now. The first is that the criticism was misdirected. The initiative for the A.F.R.O.T.C. drill came from me, not from the administration, and I did not do it to persecute you. The second is th'e fact that you are in college presupposes a certain amount of intelligence; no matter how small it might be, and I would like to direct that germ of intelligence towards thinking in straight paths, not in mazes as you evidently have been doing. We are today in grave danger of a third world war. I· don't know or care if you were in the last one, but it was, at best, horrible, and the next one promises to be worse. The leaders of this country and of this college have seen fit to install a training program on the college level as a preventative for the next one. I am not arguing the wis- dom of that decision. The fact is that we have a military body on campus, and I fail to see any reason why we should be ashamed of it. It has become a part of the college, and I think that guests of the college, particularly parents of students, should be allowed to in- spect every phase of college life. You, as a critic of the military, should welcome an opportunity of showing the R.O.T.C. If it is as evil as you seem to think, public opinion will force its withdrawal. According to your letter, you seem to be of the o}1inion that showing a military unit constitutes an en- dorsement of militarism. On the contrary: if I were to show a hos- pital or an asylum to a guest, I would hardly be endorsing disease or insanity, rather, I would be showing what is being done to help· prevent them. Get your values and your an- alyses straight, Mr. Singer, before you start talking again. Sincerely, JAMES F. IillNNEY Defend ROTC Parade An answer to Edwin Paul Singer: My dear Mr. Singe!\: In answer to your letter which appeared here last week, I feel that you are about as far wrong as you possibly could be. In spite of your apparent resentment, I believe that the parents who saw the revie:y.r on Saturday did not watch the proceedings as if they were witnessing their sons .prepar- ing for an ignoble death In some hopeless cause. True, their progeny are drilling and training to fight, and true, some of those same sons appearing on Library Field Satur- day may be called upon to give their lives for our country. But does the realization and acceptance of these facts make it an outrage? May I ask you a question, Mr. Singer? What right do you have to Iive in this country, enjoying its privileges, and reaping the fruits of its benefits? ~ou not only abhor war, as we all do, but you consider it \ignoble\ to be prepared to de- fend these benefits. Were the patriots of 1776 \ignoble\? Were the volunteers of '61 ·being \outrageous\? Were the Gis of World War II \cannon fodder\? Are the men now dying in Korea the \true cowards\? Of course not; they saw a job to be done and they did it, so yoq., and I, could. go; do; say; and think the way of consciences may dic- tate. The \cute precise steps and turns\ you watched on Saturday are the same precise steps that will eventually help to lead the world out of its pit of confusion and in- to a new world. This may sound like so much flag-waving and perhaps it is, but now, if never before, there is a need for just that. It's about time we worked together for our nation and told Mr. Edwin Paul Singer just where he and the rest of the parasitic scum he represents, be-- long, FRANKLIN G. ARNOL]) Center Lauds IFC Gentlemen:: We want to convey our thanks to the boys of ,Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi and Phi Sigma Delta for the service they rendered to the Center in leveling the cinders in our yard. This was an invaluable sez:vice to us both in terms of improving the appearance of the yard and in eliminating the expense of hiring workmen to do it. Your method of conducting in- itiations is to be commended, Sincerely yours, President, Jewish Community Joseph M. Ziffer, President Jewish Community Center In \High Tor,'' Maxwell Anderson's romatic comedy, to be produced by the Mountebanks on May 10, 11 and 12, and .again on May 17, 18 an,.d 19, the d_ramatics .society find them- selves with one of the most difficult technical assignments of amateur theater. ' Action on Mountain ~------~~--~--~ The action of the play takes struct and paint the mountain top. place on top ·of the mountain, High Assi~ting Brandow were Daniel Tor, along the middle reaches of .Sie;;el, Irwin Barg, Richard Rei- the Hudson Valley. Thus, the first mann, and Alan Forman. problem confronting Williarp. Prof. ~nald S. Jones, director, ' Brandow, .producer, was to repro- announced several cast changes dUce a mountain top. This was this week. Richard Heimann has achieved by building eighteen replaced Ralph Jonas as Skimmer- wooden platforms on different horn, Thomas Culligan has re- .Jevels, and then, covering the plat- placed Donald Larson as Captain forms. with burlap and .carpet to Asher, John Sigsby has replaced .be pamted, . . . Robert Engles as Patsy, David The :ocks were desig~ed V0: 1 th _.Palmer has switched from the part the action of the play II). mu~d. of the sailor to Dope and. Lynn The set ·was constructed to allow DeFreest has been cast as the ease of movement and stiH main- sailor. tai'n a rocky mou~tain t?P struc- Tickets will go on sale starting tu.re. The mountam top IS set off tomorrow from 3-9 p.m. They will '-;Ith a sky-blue cyclor.ama and out- also be on sale Sunday from 1-9 !me of trees, completmg the back- p.m. and everyday thereafter from ground. . 1-9 .p.m. Tomorrow and Sunday Two of the characters, Biggs and will be reserved for students ex- Skimmerhorn, spend a good deal elusively. of their stage time in the bucket ___ 10 __ _ of a steamshovel. The steamshovel bucket was constructed and sus- New Course Offered pended from the ceiling of the theater. Lighting Important Lighting, a valuable aid in mod- ern drama, will be used to produce different levels of character :be- tween the real and the unreal. The real characters will be lighted in warm shades, while the unreal characters, the ghosts, will be lighted in cool tones. At various times during the play, the set has to hold. a cast of twenty, and therefore, must be solidly built. Brandow indicated that it took four weeks to con- Next year Bibliography 1 will again be offered. H is a one hour coUrse which will be given in the fall semester only. All those inter- ested in the course, which is open to juniors, seniors and graduate students, should sign up with Mrs. Rappelje at the Registrar's office. The topics covered by the course are: Introduction to the library as a tool of research with $pecial ·em- phasis on reference books, a ,gen- eral and specialized indices, bibli- ographic notations and the pre- paration for papers and theses. Dormitory Notices Request cards for Dormitory o®' Room reservations for the Septem- ber, 1951-February, 1952 term will be distributed to dormitory stu- dents on Monday, April 30. Other students may obtain cards from the Business Office on that date, Students interested in reserv- ing a dormitory room for either the eight or twelve week Sum- mer Session or surveying are requested to register with Miss Fleming in the Business Office at once. These reservation cards are to be returned to Miss Fleming in the Business Office beginning, WED- NESDAY, MAY 2 AND WILL NOT dormitories wit.h the following ex- BE ACCEPTED BEFORE THAT ceptions: DATE. Room assignments will be a. Students living at home or in be made beginning, Wednesday, . fraternity houses. May 9. In order to confirm a re• b. Married students. servation, a $10 deposit will be pay- c. Students excused by Miss able within ten days after actual Travis who are working for their For Your Information FRIDAY, APRIL 27-The Octave Singers, MC, 8 p.m., Motzart's \Requiem students 60 cents, others $1.50. SATURDAY, APRIL 28- Varsity track, Union vs. Hamilton at Clin- ton,*2 p.m.; Varsity lacrosse, Union vs. Hofstra at Hempstead, 2:30 p.m.; Varstiy tennis, Union vs. Syracuse at Syracuse, 2 .p.m.; Freshman lacrosse, Union vs RPI at Schenectady, 2:30 p.m.; Law School Aptitude test, CE 106, All day; Annual Alumni Glee club concert and dance, Mohawk Golf Club, 8:30 to 10 p.m., dancing 10 to 1 a.m. Tickets, $3.00; Union College Christian Assn. Area con- ference, registration Silliman hall, 5 p.m., Dinner, West College, 5:30 p.m., Topic, \What Faith for To- day,\ OC, 7 p.m., followed by movie. SUNDAY, APRIL 29 ~ Sunday service, preacher, Rabbi Abraham J. Feldman, Congregation Beth Israel, Hartford, Conn., MC, 11 a.m. n>IONDAY, APRIL 30 - Daily as- sembly (IMPORTANT), speaker, Mr. Wilford Ketz. Explanation of Draft as applied to Union Students, MC, noon; Varsity golf, Union vs. Rochester at Schenectady, 2 p.m.; German club Silliman hall, 7 p.m.; Committee on Economic Educa- tion, MC, 8 p.m., speaker, Peter Drucker, economist and writer, \The Functions of Profits in Our Economy.\ TUESDAY, MAY 1.-Daily assem- bly, speaker, Prof. A. K. Davis, \Change and the Problem of Free- dom,\ MC, noon; French club, Silliman hall, 7 p.m.; Concert, \Electricaires\ with Paul King, MC, 8:15 p.m., tickets $1.00. WEDNESDAY, MAY 2-Eucharist <Episcopal service), MC, 7 a.m.; service of worship, Silliman hall, noon, \Christianity in Action,\ The Rev. A. K. Blase, Pastor, Pi1grim Congregational Church; UCCA, general meeting on election, Silli- man ha1!. 12:45 p.m.; Placement discussion, Montgomery-Ward, OC, 1 p.m.; Placement interviews, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Com- pany, Wells house; Varsity tennis, Union vs. RPJ; at Schenectady, 2 p.~.; Varsity Golf, Union vs, Wil- liams at Schenectady, 2 p.m.; Var- sity baseball, Union vs. Williams at Schenectady, 3:30 p.m.; AIEE- EE, 22, 8 p.m.; College lecture, MC, 8 p.m., speaker, Mr. D. B. Stein- man, Consulting Engineer, \Tbe Romance of Bridges,\ TWO POINTS CREDIT, notice of room assignment. rooms. ~ -------------- ROOMS WILL BE ASSIGNED IN d. .Students excused by the Busi- THURSDAY, MAY 3-Daily as- ORDER OF RECEIPT OF THE ness Office. sembly, speaker, Prof. Edwarl,i RESERVATION CARDS. Notice Married students, students living Marz, MC, noon, \The Crisis of of room assignment will be made at home or in fraternity houses are Western Europe,\ (first in a series by letter to the student's college excused. Other students who have of three); Faculty Men's club; address. • reason to be excused by the Bu~i­ Hale house, 7:30 p.m. West College will be a freshman ness Office or Miss Travis should dormitory. North and South Col- arrange for\such permission before FRIDAY, MAY 4---Daily assembly, lege will be for sophomores, juniors commencement and notify Miss recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, and seniors. Fleming in the Business Office. noon; Varsity tennis, Union vs. · Middlebury at Schenectady, 2 p.m .. , In accordance with the college Penalty for violation of above rule policy for housing students as set will be in the amount of one sem- Varsity baseball, Union vs. Stevens ·· forth in the catalog, all students ester's double rooin rent-$100.00. at Schenectady, 3:30 p.m. i Inter- are required to live in the college fraternity Sing, MC, 7:30 p.m.; Junior Promenade, \Sans Gene,\ Gym, 10 .p.m. to 2 a.m. SATURDAY, MAY 5 - CLASSES SUSPENDED; Varsity track, Union vs. Hartwick at Schenectady, 2:30 p.m.; Varsity lacrosse, Union vs. Hamilton at Schenectady, 2:30 p.m.; Fratei•nity teas and dances. Be.st Letter Award Franklin G. Arnold has been awarded first prize in the monthly letter to the editor contest spon- sored by the Concordiensis. He will receive a carton of Chester- field cigarettes._. Each month this newspaper awards a prize to the author of the letter which, in the opinion of the editors, best reveals an item of campus interest. ---0•--- Get 150,000th Book The Union College Library re- cently acquired its 150,000th vol- ume, Mrs. Frances s. Smith, act- ing Ji.brarian, reported. The vol- ume, \Imperial Defense,\ by H. Robinson-Rowan, marks an in- crease of 50,000 volumes since 1938, whe11 the library announced the acquisition of its 100,000th volume. Since 1938, the library has~ been adding new volumes to its collec- tion at an average rate of approxi- mately 4,000 a year. When con- trasted with the fact that the col- lege added books to the library, prior to 1938, at an average of 700 new books per year, the college found it necessary to construct a library annex in the fall of 1947. In addition to books and peri- odicals, the library I;J.as a large collection of phonograph albums and several hundred literary and scieri tific periodicals are received monthly. The 160,000 volumes ·do not include a large depository col- lection of government documents. ... ~ ................. ... ~ ............. James Restaurant • \' GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street .. ¥¥ ... • • • • ...... Serving Union's Men For Years See your agent on Camp.-s UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-$676 114 State St. neu f;erry Any Washable SPORT SHIRT 17c BRITE-WAY LAUNDROMAT . . Corner of Union & Barrett FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since J9J I ~\\ft18S!! Vl\ll ~ JA'VSJ.JIIWU II 166 Jay Street I! LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy Prescriptions \The College Students Drug Store\ Chemicals - Drugs Cor. NOn TERRACE and STATE STREET GRAUBART'S Treasure Chest A collection of the World's RAREST and most FAM~ OUS LIQUORS from 35 Countries. Corner State & Ferry

27, 1951 dy, to be 12, and nd them- ign.ments an tain top. .re Daniel' ~hard Hei- tl. 3, director, t changes imann has i Skimmer- 1 has re- as Captain .s replaced tsy, David m the part and Lynn .st as the .le starting They will r from 1-9 !after from ld Sunday :udents ex- L\ed 1hy 1 will a one houv ven in the those inter- lch is open i graduate , with Mrs. ~ar's office. the course ' library as special ·em- >ks, a ,gen- iices, bibli- l the pre- theses. in reserv- for either ·eek Sum- aying 13ire with Miss ess Office •llowing ex- home or in by Miss .g for their >Y the Busi- d:en ts living ·houses are s who have y the Busi- avis should ;sion before totify Miss tess Office. above rule >f one sem- t-$100.00. NEEDS =• J9J I APP y rs rugs .Ciand :r T'S hest World's ;t FAM~ From 35 !'ercy FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1951 Hamilton; j sehedul• chang•• [Track Li~eup.Shifted · , •Qualification Test, scheduled for · Dutchmen Play Wallop Orange Nine, 10 4 The_ selective service cpuege For ContLnental Meet . - · .~Y 20, '~ caused two change_s Coach Bill Ketz's trackmen will present a revised lineup w the Spnng Sports schedule, D1.- . • 1 · 1 · · · · · : rector of Athletics Hal Wittner :an.- m severa events tomorrow, w 1en they seek the1r Imtlal VIC- By Bill Mohrmann ~------------- nouneed yesterday. The varsity: tory of the season, against Hamilton at Clinton. The Univer- The Union College baseball team will open its home sea- 1 G }f T baseball g1ame at Hamilton has sity of Rochest~r's strong cinder squad took the measure of son this afternoon against Hamilton on Alexander Field at 0 earn . ~~~moved: up to May 21, and the the Garnet 61-59, in last Saturday's opener at Alexander D :30, after J?eing rained out of their Middlebury encountP' ' JUIUOr varsity\ lacrosse contest a.t Field on_ Wednesday. Coach Art Lawrence's .nine bepn their OpenS Today ~;n. 25 ~ech has been changed to· • Lineup Changed ~------------ thtrteen game schedule. last Saturday w1th an impressive The most important revision will the two mile. Three men took 10•4 walloping of SyraCI.lSe. be an attempt to strengthen the double victories for the winners, McQuade After Second ~ Colgate University will pvovide N·ett'e.rs I' D·au.gurat·e mile and two mile runs. Dick Dolan Pete Cohn in the 100 and 200, John S . . 1 the opposition as the Union Col-. and Abe Lakshin, who devoted C Lawrence will probably field the yr~c.use pushed their hnal .run: lege golf t§aih starts its season to-. ·s·e· ason at c· lio·.nton: their talents to the mi\le and two ;reed in both hurdle events, and same aggregation that pounded acrOS$ m the bottom of the mnth day with a 2:00 match at the Edi-: Frank Howd in the broad and out fifteen hits again::,t three Or- o~. a Pinch single by ~alter Wit-/ son Club. The golfers move into ' mile, respectively, will now operate high jumps. ange .pitchers. Phil McQuade has kins. ana a double by T1m Carroll. ', h1'gh gear nex·t week, meet 1 'ng U \o·' t th · o ' in both events. The other cha:nge Sweeps 1\n the discus and J'avelin c · m ns ne men open elr seas n: will be in the 440, in which Bob been selected to take the mound atroll was the only 0I'ange batter Rdchester on Monday and Williams today, traveling to Clinton, where seemed to label them as the Union again, after twirling six hit ball to connect for more than one hit. Wedn·esday. Both encounters will they play against Hamilton. The ~ui~ap~o;!nh':~ l~nfer run~ in_or~~r team's stnmg poin:ts. The broad at ,Syracuse. Handling the catch- . After their ~ncounter with Ham- be at Edison. Continentals will present prac:- . I P r ~rman es m . e jump and the high hurdles, on the ing cho~es will be veteran Cal, llton this Fnday, the team will . t!cally the same team which was· broad . JUmp, high JUmp and high other hand, are quite weak, while Schmidt. Behind McQuade, Law-: meet wm;ams Wednesday after- Accordmg _to coach Clare Graves, so tough on the Garnet last sea- hurdles. tpe 880 is still a problem. Improve- renee has two lefthanders in Jim noOil on Alexander Field. Last · the squad Will hav~ depth, but will Little is known of the Continen- ment in these events will make the Hogan and Hank Kapmeyer who year the DW;chmen split with the !lack. an outstandif-lg player. ~e son. tal thinclads, since this is their Garnet hard to beat as the season were impressive at times in intra-· Continentals taking the fi.rst cor. constders the teams chances fan·, Face Syracuse Next first meet of the year. However, the Squad games. test 2-1 and' <ll'oppl·ng the .d- but fears Colgate will be much too On Saturday', the netmen will progresses, secon Dutchmen downed them handily in --------------~ Ted Caldes will cover first, Gary. 11-4. William~·· wasn't on the base- stronf in t;he lnatgural. 15 men ,ta:ke on Syracuse at the Orange- 1950, 70'4-55%. Off their showing Young second, Walt Krupa third ba.Jlers' 1950 s<·hedule are s Ill trymg ou for the aggre- .men's home court. The two schools against Rochester, the Garnet will and Dicit Munro shortstop. Ca1des. l:nion A~ R H PO A E gation, of which 11 will ·be re- will .be inaugurating intercollegiate ·rank a decided favorite. and Young are both sophomores: Young. 21J .......... r. 1 2 7 1 1 tained. competition in this sport. The Hill- Th U 1 Krupa, au .......... 5 1 2 1 4 1 Against the Red Raiders, Graves men will be a strong foe, with their·: . e. n ~n me?' tor wa,s generB;llY who have earn>ed .the spots on the' Mumo ·s 6 u 3 2 pleased w th h h right side of the infield, while. Caldes: ~b .......... 6 o 3 u will use captain AI Doyle as his. top four netters returning from a: . I . IS mens s owmg_ Krupa and Munro are veterans of. Denuyt, rf .\ .' .' .' .' .' .' .' .' .' 3 2 J 1 ~ ~ g number one man, while Bucky squad which had a 4-S-1 record. m the Yellow Jacket meet. Although Schmidt, c .......... 4 1 o 5 1 11 Wittner istn the two slot. Veteran last year they took only four firsts, the bar- last year who are expected to con- Kazno k\ If 2 2 1 • · · h ld th · 't t 17 · t ws 1 • • • · • •• 1 o o 1 Dave Frost and Barry Bryon, a· T . r1ers e e VIS! ors o pom s tinue their fine play. McQuade, p ........ 4 2 2 o 3 o newcomer will be th n mb r hts season's edition of the in seconds and· thirds. The UR Alth U h t 'h h'tt' b'I't f. Totals 39 10 15 3fJ 13 n_ . ' e u e. ·.Un1\on tenn1\s team· WI\ll be g~een 0 g · e 1 mg a 11 Y 0 ·SYracuse.:.:········· ·AR R H PO A three nd fou m ti 1 • squad held a slim two point lead the outer gardeners is still a ques-· John 1 r 3 1 1 ~, a r . en, respec ve.Y·; and its success will depend on the entering the final event, the broad tion marlt, it is one of the fastest· Carr~?J\· 1~ '· · · · · · · · 3 o 9 1~ ~ o Ed Exner .and Bill Camppell ~ 111 .. extent to which its first year men outfield's ever seen at Union. Vet- Stuhlmll!er. ,: ·::::::: 4 o 0 6 2 0 alternate 10 the two remaimng ··come through, At Hamilton, three jump, but picked up eight counters eran Bill Kaznowski will patrol Serl!:ly, <'f • • • · · · • • • • • • 3 0 0 1 0 1 posts.. : men will be tasting their first var- there to cement the victory. I ft h . 1 h G Swanson, 2b •.•.•.•• 3 0 0 2 2 ·Oo Agams.t Roches.ter on Mon. day,,, sity net competiti·on. They a~e Kli e · , w I e .sop omores ene Wiseman, If ........ 4 o 1 1 o S tt J k 11 1 th • ngbei·g Cops Schwartzman and Hobie ,DePuyt Farr, 3b · . ·. . . . . . . . • 3 o 0 o 3 1 co Y ac ~on WI rep ace ei er · sophomores Pat Lakshminarsu and will field the . center and right· AmicQ, ss .... · · · · .. 3 1 1 · 1 2 0 Exner or Campbell as sixth man. Oscar Grusky and freshman Bob Roche. p •........... 1 I o 1 ;; o Ed Lea and Bob Dibble, and two· Engles ' spots, respectively. Mic'haels, p . . . . . . . • n n o 1 1 1 th t t b 1 t d ·n · Rally Downs Orange Vareika, P .......... o o o o o o ol tersthyel. o e se ec e WI com-, The number one man will be cap- Th D h b z-Willtins ........... 1 1 1 0 0 o P e e e meup. · tain Mike Rumpf who is expected e · utc men, paced Y the Totals ............. 28 4 6 27 16 3 All three of the opponents found t b th t d '. f f th steady pitching of McQuade, came z-Singleu fo1· va,:eika in 9th. . G \ , o e e ·s ea ymg orce o e from behind last Saturday to take Union ................ DOl 202 005-10 rthe arnet a soft touch last sea- squad. Returning letterman George the measure Of the Orange. Me- Syracuse . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120. ooo 001' 4 son. , . Ex:ner will ·fill one of the remain- Quade, after a shaky start, set- · ing ·singles spots, while Walt Jenny, tied down to limit Syracuse to L t H f t Bob Diamond and Ed Snell will only one run after the second \in- . acrossemen a . 0 s ra alternate in the siXth position. ning. Featuring the fifteen hit With Coach Pete Nistad in Bas- barrage for the Garnet were Dick In.' Sear. ch. of lni· ti• al w.· n ton for an operation, manager Munro and Hobie DePuyt with· Howie Modlin and team captain three hits apiece. McQuaae, Young, Rumpf will direct the Dutchmen and Krupa chipped in with two Coach Frank O'Brien will take his Garnet lacrosse squad over the weekend. blows each. Krupa, besides his to New York City tomorrow to face the Hofstra College ten. timely hitting, turned in a fine Judging from Hofstra's performances so far this season, the ga~~;:Us~heo;~e~:d the scoring in Dutchmen should pick up theil· initial win of the season. · the first frame when they pushed Union Improved across a marker on three bases A visiting Williams ten turned on balls and an infield out, · and back 01 the Unions team in overtime followed with two more in the last Wednesday afternoon, on second on two singles, a walk, and· Daley Field. The Dutchmen looked an error. After this, -t)d:cQuade like a much improved club, con- closed the door until tl:le ninth, sidering their 12-7 drubbing by. when the Orange pushed across Cornell last week, and played Wil- their final run. The Garnet at- Iiams on even terms throughout tack opened in the third when the contest. A constant drizzle Dick Munro singled the first run \soaked the players and turned the in and in the next frame they field into a sea of mud, which tied the count ·On De'Pllyt's single, made a sharp attack almost im- a fielder's choice and two Orange possible towards the end of the misplays. Ge't Five in Ninth The fifth was scoreless, but in the sixth the. Dutchmen erupted for two more as Bill Kaznowski and Garry Young pounqed out doubles and Gene Schwartzman followed with a timely single. Michael's took over on the mound in the seventh for Syracuse and held the Garnet in check for two innings but in the final frame he bore the brunt of a five run, Union attack. Four hits and two wallts iced the decision in this frame, Krupa's double being the big blow. Yo1.1ng, McQuade, and Munro con- nected for singles. Softball Apr. 28-1:00 Apr. 30-4:45 7:00 May 1-7:00 KN-Theta Delt (NL) Drach!Ilas-Cadavers CSL) BEU-Phi Delt (NL) AIE:ji}-KA (SL) ~hi Sig Deit-Ch! Psi (NL) DU-Alpha Delt (SL) Sig Phi-D Phi (ND) Indians-Betas (SD) D Chi-Drachmas (ND) game. Union jumped off to a quick lead at the start when Bill Snyder poured two goals into the net and teamed up with Herb Hufnagel for a third. The Garnet slowed in pace and the Ephmen began to click, so that the first half ended in a 6•6 deadlock. It is significant that four of Williams' first five scores came when Uniorl was or..e man shy on the defense, because of penalties for aggressive play- in g. In the third period, Herb Huf- nagel picked up four more tallies to three for the visitors. Tight defense and increasing mud com- bined to halt the scoring in the last frame until Gordy McWilliams pqured i~J his third goal to \'tie .1p the contest, and send it into over- time. In the overtime period, John Nelson slipped a bounce shot past goalie Bill G1:eve, and Union was one goal down- Moffet added an insurance tally, and it proved the winning score, as Hufnagel came up with his eighth goal 17 seconds before the final gun. Hufn\a:gel put on one of the most impressive attacks seen on the Union lacrosse field in a long time. His fine stick handling and accur- ate shooting combined to give him the amazing total of eight goals. Taking advantage of the condition of the field, Herb generally kept his shots low or sent them past the goalie into the corners. Defensively, the Dutchmen were Jed by Captain Bob Hass. It was while he was out for three penal- ti~s in the first period that Wil- liams picked up three scores. Goalie Bill Greve was hampered by the wet field, and, although he made many fine saves, found the shots that came in low difficult to stop, Union's defense also ran in· to considerable competition with the officials, as the players wet·e a little too aggressive on Williams' fine stick handlers. The Garnet Jayvee team will also be seeking their first win of the season tomorrow, when they face the fr'osh of RPI on Daley field. Last Saturday, the Williams JV racked up a 13-4 decision over the Dutchmen. Sophomore . Jerry Heintzman was high man for the losers with three goals. Learn To Swim Swl:fnnrlng coach Ray Mullane announced that there · is 'still a lot of room open in a. special class held for instruction of be- ginners a.nd non-swimmers. The classes <are held every afternoon in Foote Memorial Pool at 4:45. Anyone interested in taking ad- vantage of the instruction should appear at the pool on Monday afternoon, or any a:fter- nr.on throughout the week. Sports Quiz This is tl:le second of a series of sports quizzes sponsored by th~ C'oncordiensis. The prize this weelt, since there were no win- ners last week, is two cartons of Chesterfield cigarettes. In order to win, one must answer ALL questions correctly. Earll- est entries will receive prefer- ence. All entries must be in the Concordiensis office by Wednes- day noon. No staff members are eligible. 1. Who were the managers in the fil'st baseball all-star game? 2. Who was the only major league pitcher to win an open- ing day no-hitter? . S. What pitcher recorded the first no-hit, no-run night base- ball game? 4, What modern (since 1900) National League pitcher holds the record for most consecutive scoreless innings? 5, In order, who are the four all time leading major league home run hitters for a lifetime? ~~---------------····-·-1 lhe Best Place in Town . To Buy or Rent • · Dress Clothes 1 ·.i OTTAVIANo·s SARTORIAL BA.R 114 JAY ST. Across from City IIall ~----------. • • _ _... _ _-t The Union Klingberg in Miller in the in the discus winners were Len the pole vault, Lou javelin, Don Wilsey and Abe Lakshin in • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Co. Phil Englehardt's Liquor Store • A full supply of liquor and wines tor all your needs on prom weekend. 519 UNION ST. Phone 3·311 0 Kappa Sig-Sig Chi (NL) ~---------------------------, I May 2-7:00 May 3-4:45 Theta Delt-AIEE (SL) KN-Betas CSD) Snerzigs.IBEU (SD) Phi Gamm-Chi Psi (ND) Jolly Boys-Alpha Delt (NL) Psi U-D Phi (SJ.,) Cadavers-Phi Sig Delt (SL) KA-Indians (NL) Famous Chinese and American Foods LUM FU'NG Restcaurant BEST LlQUORS AND COCK]' AILS 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595 BLACK STUDIO • Photographer Application Photos dotie at reasonable prices ~77 state st. Scb!dy 4-8950 MAKE GRUPPER'S YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR YOUR eGIFTS eWA'TCH REPA·IRING ePENS & PENCILS 185 Jay 'Street. .(Next to Fanny Farmer) SA:VE 10% •• -ON FOOD COSTS • ~- •• SAVE 100fo NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out brders Call Sch.-6-9766 iiM eef and· Eat at EDDIE'S,. 54'7 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.50 :for $5.00 I I I I I I I DISTINCTIVE MEN•s WEAR : Capital Men!s Shop~ Inc. 167 Jay Street I I I I I Schenectady, N. Y. 1 I I L---------------------------- SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET TODAY PREMIER SHOWING I I I I I I I I I I :~~\\=\\'~~~--: RICHARD DENNING I I I I I I I I I I I -------------~ =j·*[1hr~i·~ No~ r;::.__ .... _.._.._._~--:Playing JANE VAN WYMAN JOHNSON BARRY SULLIVAN HOWARD KEEL in .. THREE GUYS NAMED MIKE'' e 2 MAJOR HITS • JOHN VERA CARROLL RALSTON \BELLE LE GRAND\ PETER B. KYNE'S Story of Old San F1·ancisco : 41'rr?~~:g Greatest Army-Navy Show -2 Hits- DANA RICHARD ANDREWS CONTE \Salerno Beachhead\ - 2nd Big Hit ._ \The Fighting Sullivans\ .. The Fighting Sullivans .. ~·-··~~..,....,,;~r•~~·.,.....,,..~ ...... ,A,.,.,.\\UJ8~,.,., I ~ i Remember your Prom 1 Date with ·~he Right i Gift from the I COLLE,GE BOOKSTORE ! t,.. .... ~ .. Uli&\C't'~#.- •• ~ .. \\·-~~~: ........ ~0.

'I '• l i• :' 4 ·Tax Committee to Publish .Statement·• Two Named Scout Fraternity Ch Off • As a result of the stl,ldent body's of the various activities, and that F . s : ooses · ... leers .. mixed response to the Tax Com- when they criticize the ali;JOUnt of • : or ummer mittee~s questionnaire', Gerald mo!ley· spent by particular groups . At a recent meeting ·Of Alphai O'Loughlin, chairman of the com- they ar-e doing sci with only par- . W k A b Oad ·Phi Omega, Ralph Prusok wasi · mittee is planning to publish a tia:l knowledge of the facts. He: or r . elected president of the scouting\. statement shortly which will in- cited ~s ex:amples the BJ.'idge Club,·· fraternity. .Others who were· elude: the Iqol, ·and the Christian Associ- · elected to office at'e Richard Pol-• (1) A review of the progress of ation, which .received much criti~:· len and William Wright, vice~presi~~ each campus activity, what -it has •·cism kom students. He hopes to ' dents; Richard Lindquist, Mike: accomplished, and where its al- clarify their positions through his . Kahn, and Leonard Lev-ine, secre- lotted money has peen spent. statement. Beware_! Gne student has already been : · d;r{lpped fl'>Oill school because of ' · overcutting and there was a meeting held today <at which · p,ddition.al students nmy have been dropped, pea.n C. William · Huntley announced this week. · The Dean W\lW.II.ed all students , ·. that they had better stiu't at- : ten<\~:IDg class mo1·e regularly. Davis W. Griffith and Robert Murray will travel abroad this summer to work in summer serv- ice camps under the auspices of the Union College International Reconstruction Fund program. ta.rie.s; Herbet•t Plummer, treas- (2) A statement of policy, set- ur e.r, and Robert Murray, his- • ting forth the aims of the Tax tonan. Committee and the procedure used He also stated that ther.e was no. · · ovel.\Whelrning vote to discontinue Rathskeller HoUl'S The fund was established by Dr. The members of APO have ail-· in allocating funds. C. Victor Brown in 1949, to furnish financial aid to students who wish to spend their summers working on reconstruction projects in foreign countries. It is financed by con- tributions from local citizens. nounced that the Sunday morning O'Loughlin has again stressed breakfast will be discontinued this the .point that most students seem spring because of poor attendance. to be unaware of all the functions Sponsored by Churches Both students will work in camps organized and maintained by the World council of Churches. The work-camps are situated through- out Europe, Asia and the Ameri- cas, and are conducted by many religious and secular service groups. Last year, 40,000 work- campers, from all over the world participated on these projects. Griffith, a junior, will work in London, England, from July 23 through August 23, helping in the removal of rubble and the prepara- tion for skilled labor on the Dept- ford Congregational Church. Murray, a sophomore, will work in Mainz, Germany, from\'July 18 through August 26, constructing a· building for a mission training center. ----o--- Paper Given Top R~ting The Concordiensis has received a first-claRs rating in the 44th As- sociated Collet-;'iate Press All- American Critical Rervice. It was 1'0\'Pa!Pd this week. Thl' A. C. P. ~ervin• rates n,,,,·s· papt•rs of nwmher collegPs, on the basis of news values and sources, news writing and editing, head- lines, typography, makeup, depart- ment .pages and special features. The Concordy was entered in the weekly newspaper class for col- leges with enrollment between 1,000 and 2,499. The rating was for the issues of last term. Four members of the senior board of the Concordy left this afternoon for Amherst. Mass., to att~nd the Sixth Intercollegiate Newspaper Conferenc<\ at the Uni- versity of Massachusetts. The program for the three day convention includes m<>etings, dis· cussion group~. and social eyents . AttPnding from Union will be Jay N. Cohn, <'<litor; Willard G. Taylor. n .. ws t'ditor; :\!arvin L. Kohn and J(·rornt· Gat t Ot'l. ,,agl• flditor~ 0 Delphics to Honor Foreign Students Th•· 11•·1ph••· Sori<'ly w11l hold a dmn•·r for tlw HELP studt•nts ~lon<la~·. Ap1ll 3<'. at ;; 30 in the Hal,• !loll><' <ltmng room. D<'an Hunt ]Py. nr Pa\·icl•on. Pr·ofps\or ll•·rHI<·rsnn. tIll' St ,\ndri'Ws •'X· chan f.!\•· Jlroft·~~or. th~· ~t. Andr£>\\'~ exchange scholars, and members of the HELP committee will also at· l£>nd. The speaker will he Harry H. Pierson, Director of the Foreign Student Program of the Institute of International Education. Her- bert Hufnagel, chairman of the HELP committee, will give a re- view of the work done this year and discuss plans for the future. The choosing of HELP stUdents for next year Will be made during the first week in May. L. 1L BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BA.DOI!!S - BINOll - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTtl STATIONEEY - POOGBAMJ!I CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDAL'~ - TRO~ Write or call CARL SORENSEN 10 Murray Ave. Wattwford, N.Y. PHONE TROY -A.DAMS 8-!6!5 . **• ~,.,.e \GOOD SHOES FOR • FACULTY STUDENTS and Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING it clear • make it ••• • It clear make lt ••• • Make -i-1: dear.. make i~ Schaefer When you do you always will Mcike it dear .. make it Schae.fer •• Our hand has never lost its skill any of the activities and so no The Rathsl.:eller will be open on drastic steps will be taken in that Prom Weekend from 4:30 .p.m. to direction. Howev.er the students ·3:00a.m. on Ft•iday; and from 5:·00 were ·almost unanimous in their p.m. to 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 .p.m. to· vote not to raise student taxes. 1:00 a.m. on Saturday. ,., I • • • • FIUDA:Y, APRIL 27, 1951 •. _ferrois :Re$taurant Mr. and Mrs~ GEORGE FERRO· · ProprietQrs 1H5 Barrett St. • Specializing in IT~LIAN-AMERICAN FOOD Phone 6 .. ?.554 -' PAT.RONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS • ~· . . ~: ... ; 2f.ll State St.-Bince ll!DIJ ____ ....., ____ .....,.. ___ ,:::,::::~·::::: .·.: .. ·:·.·. The F, & M. Schaefer :arewing Co., N.Y. Vo I

