1950 a 'f e l••lli.l • • • • • • • .• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·• • • • • • • • • • • • ·• • • •• • • • • • • • . . ..... !R, J .,. t Founded at Union Callege in 1877 Vol. 78, No. 12 SCHENECTADY, N.Y •• FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1951 PRICE 10 CENTS Davidson Voices 52 To Be Student Council Prexy f ·p 1 .Graduated. · · . . . ... • ··-~· t. ·•· roposa s Sl t d F D.., I President Carter Davidson. urged today that students: On Jan. 26 ·. . . ·.a. . . e. . 0 r . '1 s m 1 s sa·. should not be SO hasty :jn enlisting in: the armeQ, forces in Graduation Exercises for the 52· lieu .of new information released yesterday by .the Defense seniors of the Class of January Action was taken at the Student Council meeting last Tuesday night which may result Department. Davidson termed this \the most heartening 1951, will be held Friday, January in the immediate dismissal from the Council of President James Carmichael and Walter t t f . th. D f D t · 26, ·at 10:30 a.m. in ,Memorial Stroup, who have been absent from two successive meetings. neWS ' 0 90ine OU 0 e ·. e ense . epar ment SlliCe the Chapelo President Livingston W. ·. .• A COMMITTEE was formed to start Of the WOrld erisis,\' . Houston. of R.P.I., who will also. interpret the constitution as it re- A plan worked out by Secretuy ¢ receive an honorary degree, will IFC v· . eto· es Faces Ouster fers to the possibility of the presi- Marshall an4 Anna, Rosenberg was p·} A B b deliver the g·raduatio!l. address. dent excusing himself from meet- to be brought before congress foir . an _. om THE GRADU:ATION will com- ings without notifying the secre- proposed action tmlay. The new . · · · · :. · . . : . : ; .. . mence with the in·voca,tion by Rev-' T'roph. y Idea tary of the Council, who takes over proposals incluQ.e: p t• erertd H. H. Classen of Rochester; the meeting in. the president's ab- 1. THAT NOT more than_ half . ·. reca. U . I ODS father of David E. Classen, a mem- The Interfraternity Council, at sence. The c~mmittee was also in- of the 18-year-olds ·be called be• ber Of the graduatin g class. Guest its first meeting of . the year last structed •to draft an runendment cause ·our facilities cannot ta.ke The Union College Comn:fittee on speakers and honor students wili Wednesday night, rejlleted a pro- to the constitution to do away with care of them. ·Civil Defense is continuing work then deliver short addresses. ·posal to award a cup to the fra- future absentee difficulties . 2. That even if called at the e-nd ·on plans to protect the campus Sta,ge appointments have been ternity whieh had the most men According to the present consti- of four months 50;000 men will> be from possible atomic attack, ac- awarded to honor students Harold participating in Student Activities. a member is automatically furloughed for: the remainder of ·cording to Professor Charles B. Heath, James La Forest, and Wil- The Board of Managers submitted removed from office if he has been their college education: pi'o-vlded Hurd, chairman of the committee. liam Sollecito, all candidates fol' the idea to the council. President absent .from two consecutive meet- their records, both scholastica.lly A sub-committee has been sur- Bachelor of .Science degrees in· Duncan Martin also ):ead a letter ings without being excused by the and otherwise are good. .A.ls1> a veying the college buildings with. Electrical Engineering. Heath, the. from the IFC of Williams College . \Chairman of the Council.\ special Classification test ' will be the intention of finding out which class speaker, will address the stating that cedain articles miss-· given trainees to partly determine· ones and which parts of which graduates and guests on the topic ing from houses during the fall their return to college. ones will be ·suitable for shelters; \Let's Understand Each Other.\ were being returned . s. THA~ THGSE pupils who As soon as the survey is finished Dr. Davidson will preside and Dean THE COUNCIL felt that the ad- have c 0 mpl(;lted their sophomore there will be a map of the campus Huntley will award the degrees. ditional expense of a cup could year at. college will be allowed to made indicating where to go in THOUGH no formal baccalau- not be born by the IFC. Unde1• the complete the full four years; case of an atomic attack. 1'his reate service has been scheduled, Board of Manager's plan the cup Walter Stroup was dropped from the Student Council for absentee- ism yesterday and a. oommittee, made up of Leslle Couch, Council parliamentarian; Eric Schmidt, chairman of the constitution com- mittee; and Jack Fischel, decided 4. That members of the R.O;T.C. map will be distributed to the on Sunday, January 11,, Mr. Ralph would be awarded each term and groups will be deferred f01: the four members of the Ci>llege commun- Reed, class of 1950 and at present the fraternity that won it for three years of college. ity. a student at Union . Theological terms would obfain possession of · that President James Carmichael should also be ousted. .,.y R. 0 A general plan is still in process; Seminary, will give a sermon. Seats the trophy. At a recent mee£ing in 5 c· 'THAthT BOOTT.n.C thb• t;l . A.F'; t~·- and some time next term students in the front rows of Memorial the fall the council representatives N T.R. 0 anTdC. , e R. Q.· ' 1 :f' .e rttn as e will be assigned shelters. Drills Chapel will be· reserved for mem- were asked to urge their members· · · · · · s. ua 1 ymg1 exams bers of the graduating class. to support the student activities will be giyen :for incoming fresh- will be held and wardens ap- men and those that qualify will re- ;pointed. The night before the commence- program . ceive government aid for the dur- :Pr. Alexander Arony is in charge ment service Dr. Davidson will be The Williams College Interfra- f th d . 1 t d · k he t t the gradu te at n 1' ternity Council wrote that they ation of. their college car€er. o · e me 1ca aspec ; an lS wor - s o a s · a . n- President Davidson urged second ing on a plan to use the college's formal dinner at 6 p.m. in Hale were still conducting a search for term 'freshmen to enter tl)e A.F.- pre-meds and other students for House. the flags, trophies, etc., that were R.O.T.C. group on campus as the first aid and other }loat:.-atomic at- THE MAJORITY of degrees will reported missing by the council. best method for completing tneir tack projeets. be awarded \in Electrical Engineer- The following items were reported James Carmicbael Weekend Events Set CHAPEL m .. TKS t t 'II · returned, the Sigma Phi's dinner college education. · .a..a..u nex erm Wl mg and Li•beral Ar.ts with twenty . t · t u 1 · h '11 .gong: and Delta Phi's trophies. Sev- Plans for Union's promless. Win- 6. That St udents who rec€ive au lme he co ege p ans WhiG Wl. and nineteen gradu,ates respective- t 1 t t to b . t al ·t f th all 1 S '11 . B h 1 erals items on he is sen ter Weekend on Feb. 23, 24 and 25, their induction notices· after an e an lP. egr par o e over y, even Wl recelve a ac e or- Williams have been located on this academic year begins, :win be< al- !Schenectady plan. The college, by ate of Scienge in Civil Engineering, campus (i.e. the Psi U's dinner are being completed, according to lowed to finish that year. reason of, its distance frorr. the and five are to be given Bachelor gong and the. Phi Gam's flag). ·Gerald :J;'arker, chairman of the :probable center of the bo111b. burst of Science Degrees. 7. That every effort will be (about two miles from the G.E. o-'=\\- FRED eANNON, of Delta Chi; social committee of the Student made to inform students whether resigned. from the council and was· Council. or not they will be called so as plant), its open campus ·and its· 'Badow Named replaced by Harry Petrak. Cannon to lessen the general uncerta.inty· strong buildings, occupies a favor- was recently elected to the presi- ON FRIDAY night, the college of college students throughout the able position in the whole situa- · Professor H. Gilbert Harlow h!!S dency of Delta Chi and felt tl;tat band, led by Nat Allen, and the t tion. Professor Hurd said, \We are been named Facuity Marshall, re- these duties would int.erfere with \Pastels\ will join in a concert at coun ry, not in the center of the damage placing Warre:n C. Taylor, who has THE RECENT me&ting of the area, and if we prepare now, many held the position for many years, his council duties. Memorial Cha.pel. It wlll be the Associatioru of American. Colleges lives might be saved.\ it was announced today. ---o--- first appearance of the year of from which Dr. Davidson j1lst re- H G the reorganiZed dance band. turned .offered the following re- onor· . roup commendation: At the. end of a B f•t f. R · . · · · . . · · · · . On Saturday, two showings of an stuaent's perio4 of deferm.errt he . .en. e I s 0 . .e·. se. f. ves . old time movie, \The Four Horse- should be given the· option of join- Elects Fo· u· r men of the Apocalypse\ with ing his preferred branch of serViGe. d . d d . · · · · · .· Rudolph Valentino, will attempt to Th . f ld b b' t D • · w - · create the right kind of attno- lS, 0 course, wou e su JeC ISCU' s· se . . . . e .... nes· . ·ay Four men were elected to mem- sphere to go along with a plano to a quota system. Tbe delegates · bership in the Delphic So.cietu at · ta t t h 'th .An. n ·J player, free peanuts and sawdust were 1n C()DS n ouc WI a a recent meetmg·. . ()f the or.,ganiza- R b . d th D f D ·ali the floor. More ·details will be osen erg ali . e e en.ae e- An enlightening discussi.on. • · · tion, it was announced by Robert partment throug\h an of th~ ,con- . • f 'li 'd t Th announced later. Of the opportumt.leS o m1 ~ in a reserve unit or in a regula.r Engisch, Delphine presi en· .eY ference and the recollllntn~d:a.tion s J K d FRATERNITY parties will be tary reserve Unl .ts and the service after they have received are Gerald . hapiro, ohn enne y, k d has the Defense :Qepar:tment's ap- · d R b' J h going on most of the wes en . d ft 't t• their pre-induction notice. James Kenney an · u 1n• o nson. Proval. With. this ·backing Pres!- present ra Sl ua IOn was · DELP. HIO t t · Some houses are planning formal · · \Ma.rried me.n,\ explained Mr. THE · u ormg pro- dent Davidson .was fairly confident h ld W d. esday even1'ng 1'n h' · th t th affairs, while others will bold in- e . e n · Bireh, \are divided into two gram, w 1ch m e pas _ ree of the ·pr.oposal beeoining la;w, · ld Ch 1 S 1 t t d t t f th formal open houses on either Fri- the 0 ape , . pea {ers a groups-those married befor.e their weeks has attemp t;l o pu or · t - · f f bme· n day or Saturday evenings. Board Makes Suggestions the meeting, proctored by second (thorough) pre-induction an m enswe rev1ew or res Fred Wy.att of the Union •Col- physica.l, and those married after in certain .selected subjects, has. A swimming meet is scheduled this examination. The first group met with limited success. Scienti- for Saturday afternoon between lege Placement Bureau, in- is entitled to the privileges of mar- fie subjects showed the best attend~ Union a.nd the University of eluded several officers of ried men;. but men in the second ance, while English tutoring. classes Boston. Schenectady reserve units group are considered as .. single· were particularly poorly attended. and Mr. John Birch of the. men, eligible for no special bene- Whether the program will continue fits.\ to be offered to freshmen neXt term The Board of Man11gers -voted to local Selective Service :Board. STuDENTS registered at poards is not definite, in view ·Of the lack ask the Interfraternity· Co11ti:Cil to MR. BIBCH, who has volun- not in Schenectady may complete of student interest, according to sponsor a cup award to the fra- teered his service~ to the Boa:.;d any seleetive service requirements Engisch. ---o·-~--- Schlichter Wants New Bond Series ternity showing the greatest in- since 1942, explatn~d ac~ura_tely l;lere, and the results will !)e sent The Delphics will sponsor a Par- dividuoal participation in activities the procedure and funct10ns ·of ·to thir home boards, In respect to ents Weekend sometime next term. Purchasing power bonds would at their meeting Monday night. - Selective .Service in respect .to col- the ages of boys now being sent The date and details will be an- be a fairer means of draining off DA V1D PLATT suggested that .lege students. Boys are reqmred. to . pre-induction notices, the Schenec- nounced at a lat~r date. excess purchasing power than the the cu,p be presented .to tb.e fra- register for the draft when the! tady Board is notifying 20 year E bonds of World War II, said ternity with the greatest percent- are 18 and to complete a. c19!!:lsl- olds and expects soon to be calling PrOfessor Sumner Schlichter, La- age of men partieipating in two flcation questionnaire shortly after on 19 year olds, bilt this age varies Freshmen. . Elect mont University Professor at Bar- The committee drafted a. report, to be presented to the Council at its next meeting, interpreting the constitution ro :mean that Cal\0 michael could not be excused from the meeting Unless he had pre- viously notified FischeL If the Com1cll votes to accept the com• mittee report, Ca:tmichrull will be foroed to relinquish the chair to a president pro-tem and another election will be held next term to elect a pe:rmanent president and a senior representative to replace Carmichael on the ComiciL CARMICHAEL and Stroup, a re- presentative from the Board of Managers, both missed the last two Council meetings without previous~ ly being excused. Carmichael failed to inform Jack Fischel, Council secretary, that it would be neces- sary for him to preside at the meetings. President Carmichael's case was complicated iby the term \Chairman of the Council\ as used in the con- stitution. If the term were to be construed to mean the chairman of the meeting, he would have had no right to· excuse himself from the meeting. If the term were de- fined to refer t() Carmichael, who is Chairmaru of the Student Body and President Of the Student Council, then he could legally ex- cuse ·himself from attendance. SOME MINOR points of business were brought up at the meeting, including the posting of a new ·Stu- dent list on the Old Chapel bulletin board and the possibility of the eollege subscribing to \Who's Who in American Colleges,\ a publica- tion including the names of lead- ing campus figures from the sub- scribing colleges. A letter was read from Reverend E. M. Schlo'Oz of India, requesting clothing and other aid for the underprivileged of his congrega- tion, which· was re:l;erred to tlie Liaison Committee for possible in- clusion in their annual .Spring Clothing Drive. Members absent from the meet- .ing were Stroup, .Carmichael, :S:arcy Petrak, Leslie Couch and William Delaney, or more activities. The s11gges• their nineteenth birthday. in each with each Selective Service vard and a nationally known eco- tion was turned down by tb.e IFC. \In respect to ,pre-induction unit. F···v· e Counci··Imen nomist, at a meeting of the Eco- Ph···Ios End Season·, at their meeting Wednesday. physicals,\ continued Mr. Birch,. Lt. Col. Griffin of the Army nomics Club o n Mon{jay afternoon. A recommendation was sent to \students receiving pre-induetio!i Reserve stated that the Reserve Freshmen selected James Far- HE ADDED that beeause they H t t C ti the Publications Board that P1lb- notices, whether tl\ey are regis- now offers retirement ,pensions to rell, .Joseph Bonet, William Kess- 'wo•uld be an admission that the OS a . onven on .. lication of the college blotter be tered in SchenectadY or not, must men with twenty years acti;ve serv- ler, Robert Slaughter and Frank government will not be able to The Union College Philomath· discontinued next year. TJ:;Ie Board report to the local Board for a ice with the organization: He said Tierney from among twenty-two control prices they may not be eans closed their fall 1950 debating of Managers felt that the ad solici- general examination. If they are • .that any student over 17 is eligible. candidates as their permanent Stu- politically acceptable. Queried fu;- last Monday night when they gave tation by the biotter decreased ad- ecceptable, they will be seil,t to .to qualify; however, enlistees must dent Council representatives in ther, Professor Schlichte):' sa1d the last radio debate of the season vertising in the other college pub- Albany fol' a thorough check up.· attend 8\)% of the meetings to re- balloting at West College on., De- that he felt we were in a long on the. topic \Resolved That the lications. . Students who are considered main. in the unit. The branches ·cember 15. perioi;l of slowly rising prices and Unitll'il States Should Withdraw Its 'TilE :MANAGERS voted to pat- physically .sound are ·then subject open to students are Counter II).- APPROXIM1\TELY sixty per- . that th? mon~y which people in- from European Outposts\ ticipate in a radio program eerie~~ to induction at any time.\ telligence, Signal Corps, Artillery, cent cif the Freshman class turned vested 1!). Sarles ;m war :~onds in team was Eliott ''Voice ·Of the Campus\ ])resented MOST S.TVD]l)NTS, barring Combat Engineer Corps, Infantry, out to give a vote of\ confidenc~ to World yvar II wa;; not worth as and Lawrence Levine, on station wTRY; Various college those with major physical defects, and Quarterma,ster Corps. ' four of the previously elected tern- much . m terms of purchasing while Ralph Friedbauer and Barry activities are to be represented on are classified 1-A. However, those LIEUTENANT GAT1llS of the porary representatives, with power now as then. Traub took the negative. the broadcast. students who can certify that they Scheneotady National ·Guard ex- Slaugter being the only newcomer; He then proceeded to point out A busy schedule is on tap for were in the upper half of their plained that opportunitil'ls for ad- Farrell and Tierney have had ex- that the .taxpayer wins and the the coming term. Besides being in · · CE class during the preceding year vancement in the Guard are ex~ perience in high school student buyer_lo~es under this system, and: of tl~e Albany Convention, · RATHSKELLER N-()'1'1 and who keep high grades this cellent and there are many open• government w}lile .four of the h!'J questioned whether this was an'· will comprise all.of the New -The Rathskeller anno 11 nc€d that year may be designated 2-A. After ings, There is an Officer's Can- electees listed dramatics and .sports ethically adequat~ situation. · York State colleges, the Philo- it will cease to functio!1 Ql1 Men- June 22, 1948, men .that enlisted iii didate School from which the local• among their aetiVities. THE ECONOMICS club willl:}.old matheans plan a. trip to the New· day, Jan. 22 .for tne rest of the a reser.Ve unit are .classified 1-A unit now has six officers, and the FOLLOWING the perma:Q.ent a meeting to plan for the new term England area, also the continua- current semester. It wlj:il· remain· (occtl,pied), but tb,ose who joined guard has its own technical elections the freshman representa,~ sometime .in the first yreek of Feb- tion of the weekly radio debates open un,t11 :12 ·o'clock e:xce·pt for the before that date ate considered. schools. tiveEj b:lay vote and participate of• ruary. All students are invited to and at least one more parliamen- 22nd when it will close at eleven. 1-D. :Eiowever, no men may enlist . (Continued on Eage 4)' fl.ciallY -iii. council work. attend. tary debate.

2 FIUDAY 1 JANUARY 12, 1961 This Is War! Member Asnocis.ted Col- legiate Prese and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College P11bllshers Representative, 420 Mad!· I!IOn Ave, 1 N. Y. C. Pub· llshed every .li:,rlday of the school year. llldltorlal Ottlce,Washburn Halli Union College. Pub- !lcat on Office, The Ga- zette Press, sa• State St. ·Entered In the Scheooc- ta.dy Post Office as Sec\' ond Class Mrul Matter, subscription 10c a; copy: $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. My Word! by Don Cregier This is war! Not a short-term, lead-filled war that is : fought to a conclusion, but a destructive civil war that ' lasts 365 days of every year. This is a war that usually • ; . kills more people and wrecks more homes and families than \Progi•ess is successful rivalry with the past. As soon as· l'evel'ence . : .. all the World Wars ahd Korean conflicts together. This is f()ll tradition shl'inks to nothing more than dutiful imitation, it be- : . a war that is waged every day throughout the United States comes a deadening weight. As long as ti·adition provides an urge to : on the highways and byways traveled lily :p:1illions of un- strong constant and va1·ied activity it is a healthy stlmullts and· a t . A · wise guide.\ 1 ' ' -Gilbe1·t Highet . suspec mg mericans. A l'emarkable book that I had• the ·opportunity and .pleasure to .. · The Highway War is a civil war in the real sense of h t . : the term. It matches American against American, friend read a short time af5o is The Art of Teaching, by Gilbert Hig e ' a ! against friend, neighbor against neighbor, parent against former English schoolmaster now a professor at Columbia. I en· SEN•IOR BO\'RD JAY N. COHN '52 .................. , ........... , , ... , ....... , ••••. Editor DO'N M. CREGIER '51 ................................. Associate Editor MARTIN SIEGEL '51 , . .. • .. .. . .. . .. . . .. .. . .. . .. • • .. . Associate Editor JOHN P. KENNEDY '62 ................... , ...... :: ....... News Editor JEROME GARTNER '52 .... , ............................. Page Editor · d · thusiastically recommend this book to all men and women now en• ' chil , And it is far more dangerous than the war fought .gagE'd in teaching, including those who, like the -ones mentioned below, with ammunition and explosives. The men fighting in Korea: feel they may have chosen the wrong .profession; and to every student d~~e~del~~~s!f:e:~~~e ~~~;ya~:r:;p;~~dnby w:~~i;'~~l~rt~ who intends to enter the .profession which has often been designated on all sides. · · as the most important one in society. The only weapon of the \soldier\ in the Highway War ONE OF T:HE most engaging parts of the book, at least to me, MARVIN L. KOHN '53 , ..................................... Page Editot• WILLARD G. TAYLOR '52 ................................ Page Editor DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 .•.•...•......•....••...• , ... Sports Editor ROBERT C. SMITH '52 ................................. Feature Editor ALAN K. RADACK '52 .............................. Business Manager ROBERT B. GRINDLEY '51 .••.••.••.•.•••.•. , ••. Circulation Ma'Ilager JUNIOR BOA.RD JOHN J. CASSIDY '58 .......................... Assistant Sports Editor JOSEPH K. HANDLER '52 .••.....•...• , •. Assistant Business Manager LEO KUPERSCHMID '52 .. , ..• ,, •..•..• , ,Assistant Business Managers MONROE SILVERMAN '52 •.••••• ,, •••• , ••••• Assistant Feature Editor LAWRENCE W. LEJVINE '53 , ....•••.••.•....•••.. , •• Excllange Editor GECJRGE F; REDINGTON '52 ••••.••.•• Assistant Circulation Manager is for destruction,__a ton and a half of steel traveling at a is the author's discussion of school and college tradition, an unmeasur- wicked speed controlled only by the imperfect human sys- able quality which Mr. Highet refers to as \In its own way inimitable tern. But the motorist does not recognize the power of his and irreplaceable . . . not indispensable, though some of its de- instrument of death. He fails to realize the danger until it fenders think it is ... Often . . . not even calculable . . . Yet is too late, and by that time help is often too far away to increasing in distribution, if not in intensity, in various places over do any good. . . the world.\ \Some of those who feel its power most vitally,\ he cGn- FEATUBD STAFF 'Thomas Donlon, Peter Fy!e, Alfred ·K.ingon, Myron Komar, John Moses, Robert Murray. PHOTO:G.RAPHY STA.F'F Al&n Forman, John Stebbins, Harold Welsbug, Frank Skutsch. . Last year more than 30,000 people were killed· in the tinues, \never mention it, may not know tb,at its power affects them, Highway War and more than a million others were injured. or may liven spend their lives denying it. He who proclaims its value What were these men and women fighting for? They were most loudly is often one of its mediocre patients.\ not protecting a country from the Red aggressors. Nor did · Tradition, says Mr. Highet, if properly directed, serves ta en- their dt:laths bring the world any closei' to I'nternati'<>· nal courage, broaden the perspective of, instill a sense of order in.r. and REPORTERS Irwin Barg, James Carmichael, Alfred Goldbel'g.er, William Graves, Herbert Hiller, Michael Kahn, Jerome lGein, Wlliam Mohrmann, .:Martin Portnoy, David Smith, Daniel Weiner, Wolcott Hubbell, Arthur Stock· man. BU'SINESS STAFF teach responsibility to those affected by it. \An old school, where peace. They were fighting for something as futile as distance many gveat men have once been boys,\ has \A spiritual life .. · 01' time or speed. They all lost the battle, but there were ;no '\Yhich is more than the buildings, the teachers, and the pupi~s of any winners. Ev~ryone loses in the Highway War. particulaE~ epoch, and which acts as a most powe~f':l d~velopmg force Much ha b . 'd. f th 6000 Am · ld' ,·upon the character and mind of everyone who JOms 1t. Those who · . s. een sat o e encan so Iers-, have attended an average school with no distinguishing traditions !llost .of them m the 19-24. age group-who have been killed> •.. can scarcely understand the immense stvength of the current m the Korean War, but what of the more than 7,000 deaths that passes through a young mind when it feels itself part of a '·and 300,000 injuries in this age. group on the highways in tradition of learning ... A school or college .... which will gi:Ve ·------------~~---------------~ 1949. And this horrible loss of human~life goes on every ~ind and character the greatest amount .of .nourishment and ex~rc1se C •1 dl · · · · . • IS a better school or college than that wh1ch merely commumcates Our \Do Nothing\ . ouncl yearA~efguat~-Ieesass mofanpohtfiCAal C01:,1dlpons anhd forteign dwarst. ·techniques or gives injections of information every hour on the hour.\ James· DeSorbo, Charles Little, Gerald Roberts, Daniel Slesel, Robert 5-Uverma.n, Hyman Florence. CIRCULATION STAFF Robert. Strand, Horace Van Voast, 'Thomas Davenport, Georg~ Putman, Curtis Bates, David Steffanhagen, Culver Hayes, J. Towell Davis, William Winchester. · Y o .mer1ca s wars ave urne ou , HOW no THESE words written by a distinguished .educator apply The \do nothlng\ Student Council fina.lly got a chance to ·be, and as h()pelesl::! as It may seem for an American to Union College? For an institution over one hundred and fifty years to talk about an issue last Tuesday night, and the members,. soldier to: die fighting Koreans and Chinese in Korea how· old, Union has singularly little tradition in Mr. Highet!s sense. What so accustomed to the easy going methods of the lackadaisacal much more hopeless is it to waste this country's potential is called tr?-~itio!l a:- U:nion is actually but a collecti?~ of anecdo~es b d h h d b f kl f d ma nhood a d h d · th H. h W ? Th ··and mumm1f1ed msbtut10ns from a remote and unfamtllar past wh1ch 0 y t e~ ave prove to e, wer~ ran Y Con ';1Se . • . n woman 00 ln. 'E? Ig way. ·ar • ~ young ·few have attempted to interpret and connect with our day. There is The 1ssue was actually one bed up only With the mter- people who have thrown their hves away m automobiles are no question that our college has made significant contributions in the 11 al workings of the Council and the interpretation of a very'·not able to help their country in this, one of her darkest· past: and valuable contr~but!ons are still be~ng made, but by individuals, poorly worded and inadequate constitution But it soon moments. Most of them produced more grief than joy in dei:artments, and org?-mzabOJ_lS on t?-eymon Campus rather th.an. by d d t th · t h 't b f · · rt t th the world grief 'n th f f · ·· t . Umon College as a umque entity, Umon 1s less a college with a bmdmg exp~n e · 0 e poin W ere 1 • ecame 0, rmpo ance 0 e · · .. - . 1 ; orm ? mournmg pa:ren S, weepmg tvadition than a learning factory such as Mr. Highet refers to, turning entrre student body, because 1t dealt with the fate of the sweetheart~ and depnved fnends. Death IS one of the out skilled rather than educated graduates. man the students had elected as their president. ·saddest thmgs humans. ll}USt ~perience, but it is made Tradition should be the binding force which connects together the The Council, as is their usual policy in matters which even doubly sad when It lS needless. , ?-iv?rse par~s of the college and. it~ curricui_um and .dil;ects the whole come up for decision pushed the problem off onto a com- But nG peace treaty has yet been drawn up to·end the m 1ts teachmg and cha~acter ~mldmg funct10ns. Th1s 1s true at other •tt p h th' 1 f t t f th b f HiO'hway War It is time th t A · d small colleges with wh10h Umon has been classed, such as .Amherst, nu ee. .er .aps IS was or una e, or e. mem ers o :· ;s . · · . · a every mencan rna. e pe~c~ Hamilton, Wesleyan, and Williams, but not, for a variety of .J.'easons, the Council displayed such a woeful lack of knowledge about . wtth hi~ f~llow ~J?encan and ended the destructive ClVll at Union. Not the least of these reasons is that we have hitherto the constitution and the workings of student government ~al' which IS drm~ng :so ,~?Ch life f~·om this country. ~t is failed to emphasize the. resident~al .~spect of the ~mall independent that they could not possibly have reached a sane decision. time that every soldier m the Highway War exammed c~llege .. To quote Mr. H1ghet agam, The boy who lives. at home with Th f . I d. t · t th t · • t' his weapons and pledge~· himself to. care d rt h1s farruly . . . and who spenQ.s only a few hours da1ly\ at school, \ e ma ve;r; IC now 1 es s on · a umm~gJ.n~ lVe !fr?UP . , ·, u • . an ~ou esy on. \to return to a different community for part of his work and all his of law makers. If they uphold the committees deCisiOn, the deathtraps that are the h1ghw~ys of the Umted States. amusement and friendship\ is not likely tG benefit from his member- James Carmichael is through as president and a new election The. peace treaty for the Highway War must be a ship any more \than traveling on the same bus every day.\ would be held next term to ch()ose a new one. If they turn mutual agreement b~tween drivers and pedestrians to re- TRADITION and the office which it serves is the only outstanding it down, the president remains in his shaky position. What- sp~ct each other;; nghts. It must be signed by every differ~nce between the private college and the public .s~pportt;d one. ever the decision the entire issue we hope will at least . Citizen of the Umted States and sadly enough it may be ~f an m!lep~ndent coll?g~ d~es not. tr~ to develop a ~radltlo~ .or Ignores \ k ,. h C ' • ' · ' si . d . 'th th bl d. f th ' th ' d f . 1 • one wh1ch 1s latent, 1t IS m an md1sputably mfenor pos1hon to tbe wa e up t e OUD;Cli. f;Ple, WI e 00 0 , e ousan s 0 · peop e who have state school with its bottomless source of wealth, the eternal taxpayer. Never before, m our recollection, has a Council ex- died m a ruthless war without an end. A word to the wise is sufficient. hibited such a lack of interest in student affairs and in col- lege improvements. The student body meeting held last month, at which the president blamed the lack of accom- plishments on the failure of the Concordiensis to \agitate \ ' shows that the Council preferred to take the \easy way out>• The poor attendance at meetings during the past term proves that the members like the title but do not care for the re- 'Victim of the ''Highway War\ .Information FRIDAY, JAN. 12-Varsity basket- ball, Union vs. Hobart at Geneva, 8 p.m.; basketball, Nott Terrace H.S. in Gym, 8 p.m.; .Art Clu, OC, 7 p,m.; Octavo Singers, Han- del's \Messiah MC, 8 p.m., tickets at door. sponsibilities. If President Carmichael is given a clean bill of health, let !-Is hope he returns to hi:; office with renewed vigor. If he IS voted out, let us hope the students elect a man who can lead the Council to some worthwhile accomplishments. Letter to the Editor Mr. Jay Cohn. Editor Concordiensis Dear Jay: F~r .the h<'?efi~ o~ the misinformed \South College R<'sident'· who has. d1ff1culty .m p1clung up WRU.c: I would like to take this oppor- tumty to clanfy some of the pohc1es and problems of this activity. SATURDAY, JAN. 13-Varsity bas- ketball, Union vs. Rochester at Rochester, 8 p.m.; Swimming with Troy YMCA at 2 p.m. SUNDAY, JAN. l~Sunday service -preacher, Mr. Ralph Reed, '50, now a student at the Union Theo- logical Seminary, MC, 11 a.m. Ar- ranged especially for the January Graduating class. MONDAY, JAN 15-WEDNESDA'1::, JAN. 24-Final eJcaminations. TUESDAY, JAN. 16-Faculty Coun· cil, President's office, 4;30 p.m. THE PURPOSES of V\TRUC are twofold: primarily, serviC'i' to the ,. student b.o~y, college community and citizens of Schenectady; sec- ondly, trammg the staff members as their capacity and interest wHI WEDNESDAY, JAN. 17 - Com- munion service, Episcopal stu- dents, MC, 7 a.m.; Cooperative Evening Assemblies, Lecture by Willis. Ley, expert on rockets \The Conquest of Space,\ M:C, S p.m. (Two points credit allowed for students who have points to make up for the first semester. allow. , N~cessarily, because of a limited· <and not at all lazy or incapable) techmcal staff our services must be restricted until each problem can be hand~ed in its. own time. Currently the job of connecting_ in West College IS absorbmg most of our attention. However, this work was not started until the other dormitories were receiving the station adequately. AS ANYONE with a good radio will testify, WRUC's signal is as ?'ood in South College as that of almost any other commercial station m the area. It was some time after school opened in the fall before a deliberate break in our transmission wires was located at South College. Following its repair, however, the reception of the station within that dormitory has been normal with the exception of fluores· cent interference. WRUC's carrier is affected, il.s are those of most of the local sta- tions, by the large number of fluorescent study lamps which have both an inductive and radiant effect on nearby radios. The only solution we can propose is that each fluorescent owner install· a commercial suppressor in his lamp at a cost of ,approximately $1.00. THER IS but one possibility for the trouble to be remedie through the station and that involves an increase in power, a move which is ~contrary to federal rulings and which would result in a heavy penalty. Carrier current, the principle upon which WRUC operates, is a complex and barely-investigated subject. I assure you that WRUC's technical staff Is utilizing every available source of information on carrier current. PERSONNEL problems are always cropping up in extra-curricular activities. A man interested In any department is always welcome. WRUC is a student activity, and not only depends upon the students as an audience, but as participants as well. The services and expenSive :facilities of WRUC are valuable only insofar as they are utilized, We hwite constructive criticism of our activity, but we also invite those who criticize to join us In solving our problems. · Most sincerely, DAVID PLATT, Station Manager ... No credit on second semester R • t t • D R. I t• • L points); AlEE, Schenectady egiS ra lOll, . orm . egu a lOllS isted T~~A.:.~~~ ls~ American SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 4-GYM • Society of Mechanical Engineers EE-22, 8 p.m. ' .All Undergraduate Students (in- ~hose students who have failures Any other students can obtJain the FRIDAY, JAN. 19 _ Faculty Wo· c~uding Specials); those whose last m semester courses for the first ,form at the Business Office. Fresh- man's club, Musical program at names begin with: semester, men do not need to re-a;pply for the ho f M · TUITION '11 be c ll ted on their present rooms as their ·me 0 rs. Hoadley, 3 L thi'u Matth at 1:ao p.m. WI · Q ec · p.m.; .Art club; OC, 7 p.m. M tti thru 0 at 1 : 45 ;p.m. Sun.day, Feb~uary 4, at t~e Gy.m- original reservation card covers· SUNDA.Y, JAN. 21 and. 2 g_..,.Dr. E.· Path R t 2 00 . naslUm durmg the Reg1stratlon the entire year. .A. Ttdmarsh will broadcast a ru urn a : p.m. Period from as many students as .All students are required to live prog am f t Stas thru U at 2 :ao p.m. can b handled by the Busine s in the -college dormitories with the r rom he Chapel at ll V ·thru Z at 2 :. 45 p.mm· · ,..ffice epersonnel·, also on Monda 8 y t' f t d. t 1' · t a.m. A th B t 3 00 ., excep 10n o s u en s · 1vmg a THURS:QAY, JAN. 2\. r. 1 ·nne· r .for C thru D a. · t li 5 · and Tuesday, February 5 and 6, In home or in fraternity houses, mar- . Class of January:'\\\':U; 51 , Ha.-le . ru avis a· ·. p.m.. the Administration Building from ried students, students el!;cused by house, 6 p· .m. Da.Vlt_ thru FI_ i at a.BO p.m. 8·.45. to 11·.15· a.m. and from 1·.00 M' T i h k' f Fl th G t a 45 ISS rav s w o are wor mg or FRID.AY, JAN. 26-Graduation e~-- J ru ru a =. p.m. to 4·.00 p.m., for those excused by th ir m d t d t d ~ G th J t 4 00 e roo s, an s u en s excuse · erc1ses for the Class of January rv ru ac a · p.m. .the Bus1'ness. Office. · b th B · Offi J d th K t 4 15 y e usmess ce. 1951, .1.0:ao a.m., \'\C. Speaker'· · a ru a : p.m. A _._ __ ge of $5.00· ,·s '-- ... e .eor P It f · I ti f b LYL .,....,. u...... \' em y or VlO a on o a ove Dr. LlVmg:ston W. Houston, Presi- Doors will be c!?sed a.i; 4:80 p.m. late registration and .payment of college rule will be in the amount dent of RPI. College community REGISTBATION has been so tuitl1:1n. of one semester's double room and public cordially invited arranged that students nee.d not . Students desiring dormitory rent ($100.00). MID-TERM VACATION _ Thurs• return to the campus \Inti! Sunday. :rooms for the February-June 1951 STUDENTS who are excused day, January 25-Feb a Inc It is imperative, therefore, that .term are requested to make 1•eser- from these rules because of work REGISTRATION and 'PAY~ each student report promptly at vatlons with Miss Fleming in the in return for either room or board !~!tENT OF ~UITION, all stu· the hour designated. Business Office. are reminded that their excuses dents, Feb. 4 m Gymnasium- . No adjustments in schedules will PRESENT dormitory- residents. must be reissued for the February- CLASSES RESUMED _ Mo~d . . be made on Sunday except for have been sent reservatiO'n foJ;ms. June term. Feb, 5. ay, f t 1: t ' '! .,

] mce be- e to d a 3 to t, a ·en- enw olow, dent ate d. me,. i.SUl'•· table de- over con- b.em, •alue ~ en ... and ;here :any force who .tions rrent of a give 3rcise lcates LOUr.\ apply years What 'dotes ;vhich 3re is n the duals, m by nding .rnt.ng H the whole other . herst, asons, therto mdent • with :chool, lll his •mber- mding :1 one. ;nores to the payer. 1 :>asket- ~eneva, 'errace ; Clut: :, Han- p.m., ty bas- ;ter at mming '· service ed, '50, 1 Theo- .m. Ar- anuary :SDA\f: •ns. r Coun- p.m. • Com- 3.1 stu- •erative .ure by :ockets, M:C, 8 3.1lowed ints to mester. ltnester 1ectady nerican gineers, .ty We- ram at dley, 3 \'Dr. E, icast a 1 at ll ner for , Ha-le tion ex- anuary, :;peaker 1, Presi- Lmunity 3d. Thurs• 3, Inc, PAY- til stu- um. i!l:onday, 3 . . ,., . ' Cassidy Named Mermen Dunk U of R •. 10SSf.R .:.Dutchmen Cagers Around Face Road Test John J. Cassidy was named : F s d 49 26. sports editor of the CollCQl'dien- . . ·. or econ . ·, • · . sis this week. <lftssldy, who will • take over the position at the · By Irwin Barg beginning of next tenn. S\lCo- Th G t • • t d • _ By Don Schwarllll _ By Bill Molnmann ceeds Donald E. SchwartZ, who · · e arne. SWimnilng earn won a . eClsive victory over Althoug .·h we R. e.t.urning to action after a lon.g la·yo.ff the Uni'on· Coll.ege·. has been editor sinOO last Ja.nu- • the visiting University of Rochester tankmen on Wednesday, ary. thus avenging the two setbacks suffered at the hands of the found ourselves basketball team will engage in two tilts this weekend on' Cassidy, a sophomore, 1.s from Yellowjackets last season. The final score of this meet ~~~~e ~:i:!d~:: foreign courts. H-0bart will fumish the op-position tonight Saratoga. 'He is a member of was 49-26. this column and Rochester ton10rrow night. ' Psi Upsilon fratel'llltY. . THE DEPENDABLE, but slight-®•---~--------- w o·u 1 d U k e to • :Returning to action after a long ly changed, medley tea~ sent the Geismar came in second, about wish all its ,read• layoff the Union College basketball· F h Q • t Dutchmen off to a flying start. eight yards behind Diamond In ers, and even to t '11 . . t t•lt th' The .starting lineup will probably . . r· ·o·s· . . . Uln. . Werne: Rein.ers had some diffi- the 440, Duffy returned to his ,;,..ays Some Who aren 't, eam Wl engage 1n wo 1 s lS fi d B b M i th . t . · culty xn 1eaving h1s opponent be k n · o urray n e p1vo pos1- · . . · . . - of old as he won the event, closely ·a Hap p·y N e w wee end on foreign courts. Hobart. t' J' C . h 1 d Ti h t hind but Bob Dla~ond gained 1 ·1 1on, 1m . al'm!c ae an g e a · D t 15 ' . · '\:' . a fo lowed by Isbister. ~ e guar spo s, ail · apta:in Die · ·.· . · · · . . IS sm o Rochester salvaged some ·of its •y· en r. Further- W.l l furnish the opposition tonight th d t d C . k · ow· n · 0 · commanding lead WLth h 0 th more, we intend and Rochester tomorrow night. Davis along with either Ray Pam-· ~reaststrokmg.. Guy . Co<;> per had pride as It walked off with the to· single out a. Both squads are tough on their eroy or Glenn Kinns filling the. ;By .:Phil Beuth httle trouble m holdmg the lead, 400 yard free style relay. The com- few of our more prominent, or. at home courts and the Garnet squad, other vacancies. Carmichael and as anchor man of tne event. bination of Turner, Stephans, Wil• least vociferous, critics and sup- wea,kened by the loss of Spen ·Pomeroy are stm not in top physi- Coach Sam Hammerstrom has John Isbister moved up from the son, and Pitts topped Walt Gross po)\ters with particular wishes for, Warnick, }!.igh •scorer and ace re- cal condition but will .probably see selected a 15 man Frosh basket- shorter even~s to team up with John Walsh, Frank Morgan, and 1951. bound man, will probably rule the ;plenty of action in both contests .. ball squad and the hoopsters are J?hn D'!ffy m the 220. However, Pete rr:omback. This victory put Ha:l Wittner: ·Money and a. underdogs. Warnick was injured Mtirray will be taking over preparing for their debut Feb. 3. J1m P1tts, a constant Union the sw1mmers' record at two vic- priority to build a field bouse. . December 26. in .a near fatal auto- Kinn's spot and will be backed by DESPITE the swift cutting, nemesis, proved too strong and the tories and one defeat. When the Sam Hammerstrom: A can of mobile accident and his loss will Bob Faubel while Bill Kaznowski, Hammerstrom came up with a Dutchmen had to settle for second new semester begins, Ray Mullane's spinach for his fullbacks. definitely be felt. Gene Schwartzman, Frank Chill- fairly t<I;U and speedy contingent. and third; Isbister besting Duffy. squad wil !take to the road and Art Lla.wrence: A hockey rink Union found Hobart an easy rud; and Jerry O'Loughlin will also In Ed ~ramer, Bob Adams, R~lf .Bob Dorse streaked to victory in a will face Fordham and City Col- and about three more fields for touch last year but Frid'ay night' be available for duty. .~oll, M1ke Rabasca, and Joe Wll~ very close finish of the 50 yard lege, and Hamilton and Rochester intramurals. at Geneva tb.e cagers win find The Garnet are still searching kmso~, the Fresh boast a good re- dash. Dick Stark was just \touched on successive weekends. Ray Mullane: .A swimmer who themselves facing a veteran team for their first road victory having \bound1ng force and . several accu- out\ of third position. bad some experience in high paced by ·veterans Lee Letizia, lost their_ first two encounters on rate shots. Bob G'ilfi.llan, Gerry lUCK JOHNSON mad·e his last. o c school and a third stringer like Randy Schofield, and Lew Berke- foreign territory. However, they Berandes, Sonny Gertzog, Hank appearance as a Union diver and it verseas . agers Wayne :Moore. ley. Rochester promises to be even have copped two out of three on: Kaymeyer, and Dave Bl;tm pre- was good enough to get him first Frank O'Brien: A tape record- a tougher nut to crack. Coach Lou their own court and thus will be sent an array of deceptlV~ ball-, place honors. He leaves behind a Two American emigres includ- ing of \Wind sprints, now, you Alexander has come up with an- seeking to even and .better this ~andlers w~o aptly hold their own very fine record for his three years ing the Union College exchange guys!\ other fine squad led by his son record tonight against Hobart and m t_he scormg department. . of varsity competition as well as student to St. Andrews University Bill Ketz: A f.ree pass to the Lew, Jr., high scorer of last year's tomorrow against Rochester. D1ck Fifoot, Terry Goff, DICk .the college record for the dive of in Scotland have been the primary Psi U bar. squad,. backed .up by holdovers Bob · o--- Henry, Gordan Kidd, and ~1 Koe~t 102 points. Johnson, who gradu- reason for the meteoric rise of the :Pete Nistad: ''Hey boy! Are y9U Wienecke, John Donohue and Jack Th } F• round out the squad wh1ch Will· ates in February, will be sorely University in basketball this sea- in sha!Pe'l Garnish. Last year found Roches- ..... ree ntra . Ives go a~l out to match last year's un- missed in coming contests. Roger ~~~tt~:~~rding to the St. Andrews Chucl• Abba and Bob Fletcher: te.r -emet:ging victor-ious in a thrill- Are S·til·]· Un: ·bea.·.ten blemished fresh record. Hancher continued to showpromise F d K t A big stick for their pupils. ing contest in the Alumni Gym, . Kramer !and Adams are the two as he took second place. re an or, exchange scholar, Dick Davis: The clutnce to pla.y · To compensate for the loss of . . tallest men and each. works. well In the 100 yard free style event, and Howard Brody, a special stu- on a rubber ·basketball court. Warnick has two of his casualties By Lew Klem aro~nd the keyhole. Gilfillan Is ~x- Pitts once again showed his ability dent from Union, sparked the team Jim Carmichael: A big roll of returning to action this week. After the first month of intra-· .cepbonally fast and scrappy WLth staving off a last lap drive to the in their recent victory over Aber- dead y from anyplac the · deen. Brody was high scorer with tape, Cookie Sherwin and Bob Tighe are mural competition, only three a e e · . e on :finish line by Dorse. Duffy, mak- Eric Smith: A bite as good as now able to drill and may see teams still remain on the .unbeaten floor. Althc;mgh Hamme.rstrom Is as ing his first appearance this year 18 points while Kantor, who is his bark. . . some action in both ti'lts. Sherwin, list. Alpha Delta Phi is in . first yet undeclded U?on hls first five, in. the 100, came in fourth. Reiners captain, was outstanding as play- d d t th b t d thre 1 g maker. The final score was 38-28. Ed Da.May: A bo yguar . o pro- who saw considerable action last place in the Eastern Div'lsion .e. a ave men lone e a on took the 200 yard backstroke with teet him from bullysl on the foot- year has sufficiently recovered and standings with a 4-0 record. Kappa w~th Berandes, .K~pmeyer, G'ertzog, comparative ease. This time Howie In an earlier 75-35 defeat to highly ball field. may prove of \alue to the team Alpha is running away with the Fifoo.t, and Wllkmson ha~e been Kloth was able to stay fairlv close touted Glasgow, Brody was con· · t · h \' · N h w th m t rom 0 • sidered the star. Jbn Kenny: Abou six me es. when he returns to top form. orthern loop with four wins and s o mg e os P lSe. n to the leader and took the second Spen Warnick: A speedy re- .l'ig.he, outstanding ;playmaker of no losses. In the Western section February 3, the squad will face slot, o covery. last year's unde.feated Freshman unvanquished Phi Delta Theta ·Cobleskill in the initial contest of BOB DIAMOND br k th 1 No Games Tonight b t \l f · ta· d · th ir 8 gam schedule 0 e e poo Ray Pomeroy: A new · o \e o squad who boasts some good shoot- mam me a slight lead with their e e • record for the breaststroke event There will be no intramural glue for his fingers and about ing ability may alleviate some of il\O slate, which he had set himself this sea~ basketball contests tonight because five less labs. the woes of Coach. Nistad. Tighe · WI£,EN ACTION was resumed on fV son against Williams. ' He breezed of a high. school game in the Phil McQuade: A rubber arm. has looked sharp in practice and January 8 after a tw() week lay- t.tOU{eSt WinnerS home in 2:35.4 to chop one-tenth of Gym, Art Lawrence revealed this Bob Tighe, Bill Snyder, Lenny may possibly breaK Into the start- off, Kappa Sig, runners-up in the a second off the old record. Gerry afternoon • • Klingberg, Dick Dolan, and Gene · ing line-up. Eastern Division, crushed the Harvey K r o n i c k, Chesterfield ::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;:;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;::;;;::;;~ .Schwartzmd: Draft deferments. . Snerzigs 20-15. In the evening's representative on campus, has a.n- I\ Fred Bronner: A pellQant for his second tilt the Half-pints stayed nounced the winners of the Score New York Giants. Frosh Swinlmers in the running for the Northern Guessing Contest for the Union-' Fred Wyatt: A mega:phone. loop title by trouncing D Phi 28-21. Hamilton basketball game. They · Bob Diamond, Werner Reiners, M.eet Troy YM·CA DU racked up 35 pointf) to defeat are ll'heodore Klotz, first prize and and Bob Dorse: More trips to Sig Phi in the nightcap ar1d re- G. Burton Harrold,· second prize. Florida. · Coach Ray Mullane's freshman mained tied with D Chi and the • THE CONTEST which is spon- Al Tropp: A medal from Avecy swimming team will play host to Half-pints for second wace in the sored by the Concordiensis and Brundage. · the Troy YMCA in the opening Northern league. Chesterfields, will be held again Dick Heinmann: A theatre match ()f the frosh campaign to- Theta Delta was triinmed by for the Union-Amherst game on column in p~ace of Tossin' .Around morrow afternoon. the Western Division's second place February 7, 1951. 'Students are in- and a chance to do a scene with THE TROY splashers come here quintet, the Jolly boys-26-15 on vited to- try their skill at guessing Marcia Henderson. fresh from a win over the RPI Jan, 9. Other score!'! .of the eve- the score by submitting entries to Fred Parks: Some.new calendars. mermen. Mullane will send Jim ni.ng were Psi U 13-Phl Gam 29, the Concordiensis. A carton of Ed FitZ: A book on how to deal Farrell, George Brooks, Joel Gitlin, .Alpha Delt 29-Beta Theta 19. cigarettes will be awarded to the with hypochondriacs. ·and Dick Land as sprinters and LAST WEDNESDAY undefeated winners. Cookie Sherwin: A new ankle. employ Bill Hall in the distance Kappa Alpha maintained their A carton of Chesterfields has Jack Cassidy: All the wits he events. Jolm \Rocks\ Bird, AI perfect skein by trouncing the in- been awarded to Davis W. Griffith can salvage as new sports editor McKinnon, and Dick· Hartman will dependents 42-13. Chi Psi moved for writing the best letter to the of the Concordy. do the backstroke while Art Fink into second place 'in the Western editor during the month of Decem- ----.a•--- Causey Selected Walter F. Causey '51. has re- ceived honorable mention on the 1950 .All-American lacrosse team. Causey ,played midfield for the Garnet s:tickmen last season and he was named to the North team for the annual North-South contest at the conclusion of the season, Oausey is no loi).ger iii school as he enlisted in the service during the summer. , • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving,, tool and George Cole will ·be the breast- Division with a win o1/er Sigma ber. Each month the -author cif the stroke men. In the diving events, Chi 29-28. D Chi stayed in the letter which, in the· opinion of the Mel Shira. and Jim Leitzell will hit second slot ii) the Northern League edito:rs, best reveals an item of the drink for Mullane's forces. by walloping Phi~Sigma Kappa to campus interest, is rewarded with The meet is booked to get un- the tune of 30-11. cigarettes. derway at 1 :45. II we have plenty of Manhattan White Broadcloth Shirts 3.95· We Have Them if its Slacks or Pants 100() pairs to pick from ROCHESTER PANTS STORE (New Location) 115 BROADWAY between State and Smith RUFF DRY BUNDLE ~ 8 Lbs.- $1.00 Flats - All Finished Shirts in Ruff-Dry Bundle .,12c ea. (finished) 24-Hr. Shirt Service-4-Dcry Complete Laundry Service WGY LAUNDRY 520 Union Street • GENERAL HARDWARE • HOUSEHOLD GOODS • PAINTS David Mahoney Company 209 State St., Phone 3-3691 129 S. Brandywine Ave., Phone 3.3692 L 8. BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADG118 • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GU'l'8 STATIONJ!iBY • PBOGIUIUil OLUB PINS - KEYS MEDAUS.- TBOPIDliB Write or call CARL SORENSEN SO H\JI'JaY Anlo WaterfOrd, N.Y. PRONE TBOY-ADAliB MG1S 11, ol \'*.··nee ••• ·• _--_,. •• ··e ·, Serving Union•s Men For Yean See your.agent on Campus UNITED ·CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 l1'4 State St. near Ferry SAVE 10% •• -ON FOOD COSTS •• - •• SAVE 10% NOTT RESTAURANT. AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 \M~et aqd Eat af EDDIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKET5-$5.50 for $5.00 The Associated Students Memorial Union Building is one of the favor- ite on-the-campus haunts of students at the University of Washington. That's because the Union Building is a friendly place, always full of the hqsy atmosphere of coll~ge life. There is always plenty of ~ce· cold Coca-Cola, too. For here, as in university gathering spots every• where-Coke belongs. .dskjor it either way • •• both trade-marks meatz the same thing. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPAI-IV l)Y 'iUIENECTADY COCA-COlA B01TUNG COMPANY @ 1951, The Coca-Cola CompanY

1 ~ i I '' 4 I-njured Two Recovering I FRIDAY.- JANUARY 12~ · 1951· Nott Terrace High sc)lool in the A 25 Dlil,e an hour speed \llmit _system now has eight men in itll A d .adult e~ucatiQn program of the Will be enforced on the Westem .elementary schools. ~en tefl.cl\erll . . . roun . board of edUcation. The course. Gateway ~,)ridge and an ove:rhead 'have alway· s been accepted .on the (Con.tlnued from Page 1) will r1m to 12 lectures and is open warning- slgnal will be mmstr~oted. 1 1 1 The Air National Guard was. to the public. 'This is the! state's belated effurt junior and senior high schoo , ev4)! ' Reserve W rehprestendtedthby 1 tCdaptait nthcamt· pbell IJ1A.J •• H At th Th telto 1(. 1(., to halt the alarming :~tu:mber of ,b 1 ut havte .been adrarfeosrigmht 0 rien lt~canal Spence Warnick of Alpha Delta 0 0 · e s u ens '· a some .I. t;,I.CI•• · · . e ea. rs autg crashes on the bridge, 'Jii.ere e emen ary _gra es ground positions are open to en- Proctor's: \l'~gan Love Song\ with ,have been- more than 2S crashes a generation. The schoql system Phi, varsity basketba,ll center, Is .listess, but he explained that the. Esther Williams In toohnicolor •. on tll.e bridge. SamuelS; Stratton, doesn't favor men over w~men convalescing in Amsterdam City .A:ir National Guard has no :faclli- Also playing; \The Tougher They citY councilman- and l~turer· ·in teachers for yo11i:lg children, ad• Hospita1 kotn injuries received in ties to train :flight officers. Men SherJtf· William H. Dunn, Sche- Com!!!\ With Watne Morris/ phlloso:rfuy at Uruion •Cclllege last cording to the director of instruc~ an automobile smash-up in Am~ with two years college, however, nectady ()otuity Defense director, State: \The Milkman\ Wtth Jimmy year; has been a persistent ~ritic tion. But there is a feeling~ th8,t sterdam on December 26 . Two of may apply for a .flight cadet school. has lli'ged that all men between Durante a.ild Donald O'Colnnor. of the existing hazard: tliere should be some ba:lailce be-- MAJOR SHEPHERD of the 26 and 60 years old W:h(). are not ''Union .Station\ with william :,. If. If. tween the two and that there is a his companions were instantly Union College Air Force R,Q;T.C. firemen or members of military re- HoldeJJ. is the cofeature.· The The Schenectady public scb.oll'l .need in the grades for both. killed and· Warnick received a clot then announced that a plan to serves or the National Guard sign Schenectady Gaz!}tte and the - on the J:Jrain coupled with severe allow freshmen not in the R.O;T.C. up as auxiliary police. Th~ goa;l Scbeneetady Dail:y Council are- a•llllllllllll•·•••••••••••••illillillllliilllillilllliliiilil internal injuries; the driver was to join at the beginning of the for thel anxlliary Is 150& men to sponsoring. a ••My Favorite' Mllk- • - ·· · .a second term is being- considered. ·assist regular pollee. forees if the: ·man\ contest. See local papers • · ·I not critically Injured. \If this plan is. accepted;\ stated county is bombed. . for details. . . 1: $ 00 I THOUGH HIS right side is tem- the Major, ''these frosh will take If. 1(. ~ :Erie: Frlclay even,i:ilg, JSat~da.y • Ca:mpu··. 1.! ·s ... p·e,. ··a· I·. 1 it ; : •• porarily paralized, the seriousness the second term work and next • matinee and Saturday evenfug- • _., ~ I • of Warnick's condition has been. year study the first term work of A course in piloting- ~d ·small· John Forsythe and the N~w York I • re~ieved by a ~elicate b~ain op_er-, the freslunan course as well as the boat handH~g is being taught at cast in ''+\Jster Roberts..'' •. S'h·eets· .• · p•IIIO'\_u C·ases.· ;Handkerc. hiefs I \ abon, and he 1s improvmg da1ly. sophomore curriculum\ •• .,. • .... Spence probably wil lnot .return to __ Fred Wyatt outlined the status . ···=· co·M'. -PL'·ET·ELY. FI-N·ISH·E·D· .... • ,·=· Union u,ntil next fall, but he may' of the Schenectady Naval Reserve never play- basketball again. which has lost 40% of its members •• • Bill Campbell, stricken with polio to the l'egular Navy. He sa.id that • 8 LL...s fo· ... $1' oo· • over th-e Christmas vacation, ex-. any students who :fill tb.e several· .• · uJ • . ' '• •• • I pects to :l>e able to take his mid- vacancies will be expected to at- · • ·• tet'm ex:aminations announced Dr. tend at least 44 of 48 .meetings. : I e I Arony tCJday. Cruises of two weeks duration per 1 ·• AT i:'HE present time Bill is y~ar are compulsory. Reservists :1 • convalescing in the home of a w1th three months service before a I Shirts in Campus SPECIAL.. Bundle I friend in Schenectady following his cruise, however, who are in col~ ' SCHENECTADY. N:Y. · • • release from the hospital. His case lege may enroll in a special course t•r JAY STRI.; • • ·a O I 12 • th • n·y . c • was diagnosed as mild and he will . rough which they receive com- • ,. be in g-ood shape to take his ex.- mjssions when they graduate from • • a.minatiCJns on Monday. college, .provided that they partici- . I JOe Per Additional ·Pound I Cam!} bell is a HELP student pate in two cruises. . ·= .; from St. Andrews, and is living at \' • • • • • the Sigma Phi house. 1 • ~K~M~ • • . 1 Cl·ea-ni119 and Pressin9 ·; MAKE GRUPPER•s YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR YOUR •GIFTS •WATCH REPAIRING ePENS & PENCILS 1 85 Jay Street (Ned to Fanny Farmer) &OOD SHOES FOR STUDEtiTS and FACULTY Pe~tton & Hall X·BAY FrrrlNG ms State st.-since 189« Fear Car Troubles See a Union Man • William H. Plath Auto Service i>O I UNION STREET I Exclusive at I ~- rJ.S~a'A ~ll~~~~~st~lWILIRS Union Seal Sterling rimmed 'Coast-trays' may be used as a Coaster or Ash Tray the senJ. will not be affeeted by the heat of a cjgarette or a douse of Old Granddad A Peorfect Christmas Gift $4.50 Inc. Tax BRATTLEBORO. VERMONT Adjustable 5 Suits 89c -. Troysers 49c 'i Incandescent and G A Z .E J J E P R 'E S S 5 :E Fluorescent • • '• . ,. • • • ·sAVE SUPPLY co. P r In t e r s . i BRITE-WIJ LAU'NDROMAT ;5 SO I State St. • • 1 Corner-of .Borreft and Union :; PHONE 6-4193 • •• • • MAKE THE TOBAC,CO GROWERS MILDIESS TEST YO:U·RSELF ••• YES ... Compare Chesterfield with the brand you've been smoking •.• _Open a pack ••• enjoy that milder Cllesterfield aroma. And-tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder._ S() smoke Chesterfields-prove they do smoke milder, and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER•TASTE. -HESTERFIELD • • • •........... , ..•.•....... , ............ : ............. .. PIIOTOSRAPIIS TAKEN 0 N CAMPUS

.. 4 FR.IDAY, JANUARY 12a 1951 Nott Terrace Hlgh school in the A 25 mlle an hour speed limit system now has eight men in its A d adult education program of the will be enforced on the Westei'Il elementary schools. Men teachers C .roun board of education. The course Gateway bridge and an overhead ha·ve a·lwa·ys been accepted on the ( ontinued from Page 1) ·n t 12 1 t d wr run o ec ures and is open , warning signal will be constructe · J\Unl· 01 , and senior high school level, The Air National Guard was.. .to the public. ;This Is the state's ·belated effort Reserve represented by Captain Campbell fll. 0 ._ 111 H If. If. \f. to halt the alarming nwnber of but have been a rare sight in local Spence vVarnick of Alpha Delta who told the students that some .1.. f U/•11 At the Theaters :auto craslres on the bridge. Thel'e elementary grades for m 0 re than Injured Two Recovering ground p0sitions are open to en- Pl'octor's: .. Pagan Love Song\ with have been more than 23 crashes a generation. The school system Phi, varsity bn,sketbaU center, is 1 . t ~men 1s ess, but he ex;plained that the Esther Willla.ms in technieolor. on the bridge. Samuel S. Stl'atton, doesn't favor men over Wv convalescing ln Amsterdam City Ail' National Guard has no facili- Also playing,. \Tho Tougher They city councilman and l~tu:rer In teachers for young children, ac- Hospital f1·om injuries received in ties to train flight officers. Men Sheriff William H. Dwm, Sche- Come\ with Watne J\olorrls. 1 philosophy at Union College last cording to the director of instruc- an automobile smash-up in Am- with two years college, however, nectady Cotmty Defense director, State: \The Milkman\ with Jimmy year, has been a persistent critic ·tion. But there is a feeling~ that may apply for a flight cadet sch0ol. has urged that all men between Durante and Donald O'Connor. 'of the existing hazard. there should be some balance be- sterdam on Dec<'mber 20. Two ef 26 d 60 ld th t th · MAJ@R SHEPHERD of the. an years o · who are not \Union Station\ with William. ;r. ;r. :;. tween the two and a · ere IS a his companions werP inRtantly Union College Air Force R.O;T.C. firemen or members of mllltary re- Holden is the cofeature. The The Schenectady public school need in the grades f0r both. killed and Warnick received a dot then announced that a plan to serves or the National Gua:rd sign: Schenectady Gazette and the on the brain coupled with ::;evere allow freshmen not in the R.O.T.C. up as auxiliary police. The goal' Schenectady Dairy Cowtcil are •••IIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIBIIIIIJiii•I•IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRI·III to join at the beginning of the for th.el amdlia.ry Is 1500 men to· SIJ(lnsoring a \My Fa.vorite Milk- 11 • internal injuri<•s; the driwr was a 1 t u1 li second term is being considered. ss 8 reg ar po ce forces if the man\ contest. See local papers. II II not critirall~· injured. \If this plan is accepted,\ stated county Is bombed. for details. II $1 00 • THOUGH HIS right side is tem- the Major, \these fresh Will take ~ :f. ~ Erie: Friday evening, Saturday.== c.a',m· '.P·US ·s· peJ/11> ··al. . . ~ . . =.· porarily paralizcd, the seriousness the second term worlt and next matinee and Saturday evening'-' ~ of Warnick's conuition hn::; been year study the first term work of A course in piloting and small John Forsythe a.nd the New York • • relieved by a delicate bruin op<T- the freshman course as well as the boat handHng is being taught at. east in .. Mister Roberts.\ •. Sheets~ Pillow CaseS,· Handkerchiefs = ation, and he is improving daily. sophomore curriculum.\ 11 II - Spence probably wil !not return to Fred Wyatt outlined the status •= CO·MPLETELY 'F'I•N.I'SH'E'D·'· 1 11 Union until next fall, but he may of the Schenectady Naval Reserve never play basketball a~ain. which has lost 40% of its members II ·• Bill Campbell, strick,•n with polio to the regular Navy. He said that C\\H->.. G!a!OOWOOIO't.?.lliil&\lj)WV' Jlii!MtaTi>.l!\'WmmTI?.!. mJIIII'r> 1 11 8 LbS. f-r $1.00 •.• over the Christmas vacation, ex- any students who fill the several c.lfle ~\lS ISrlNISr\lOI!WW!YU J!!IINWJ!\Y&.\YW!'\1.~ \9\l!IIO!iii V pects to be nb le to tal'e his mid- vacancies will be expected to at- II 11 term examinations announced Dr. tend at least 44 of 48 meetings. = • : Arony today. Cruises of two weeks duration per II II AT TilE pnsent time Bill is year are compulsory. Reservists 11 dl 11 convalescing in the home of a with three months service before a I Shirts in Campus SPECIAL Bun · e : friend in Sch<·n·~ctndy following his cruise, however, who are in col- SCHENICTADY.N.Y. II • release from the hospital. His case lege may em·oH in a special course &47 JAY STR<ET = 0 nJy 12c = was diagnosed as mild, and he will through which they receive com- II II be in good shape to talu• his ex- missions when they graduate from I JOe Per Additional Pound = aminations on 1\londay. college, provided that they partici- 111 M Campbell is a HELP student pate in two cruises. • 11 • • • from St. Andrews, and is !i'.·ing at ~.-.. II II the Sigma Phi house. II II MAKE GRUPPER'S YOUR H EADCj)UARTERS FOR YOUR eGJFTS •WATCH REPAIRING ePE~S & PENCILS 185 Jay Street [Next to Fanny Farmer) GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-BAY FITI'ING Mil State Bt.-8lnoe 189lS For Car Troubles See 11 Union Man • William H. Plath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET I Exclusive at I ~~~s~~,~~ Union Seal Sterling rirnmed 'Coast-trays' may be usee:! as a Coaster or Ash Tray the seal ,vin not be affected by the heat of a cig\ar&te or a douse of Old Granddad A Perfect Christmas Gift $4.50 Inc. Tax DESK LAM.PS • Cl · d p • I = eanmg an ressmg • Adjustable E Suits 89c -Trousers 49c 5 Incandescent and G A z E T J E p R E S S I : Auorescent : • = • • • SAVE SUPPLY CO. Printers 50 I State St. PHONE 6-4193 MAKE THE TOBACCO GROWERS MILDNESS TEST YOURSELF ••• YES ... Compare Chesterfield with the brand you've been smoking ... Open a pack .... enjoy that milder Chesterfield aroma. And-tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder._ So smoke Chesterfields-prove they do smoke milder, and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE. HESTERFIELD • • I BRITE-WAY LAUNDROMAT 5 • • = Corner of Barrett and Union : • • • • • • •••••••••••• , •••••••••••• 1 •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 1\! PHOTOGRAPIS TAKEN ON CAMPUS i I

