is 11. a e- y- 's , Welcome To Our Campus Sub-Frosh Vol .. 79, No. 13 3Jubiltt Founded at Union CoUege in 1877 . . SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1952 Concordiensis Jubilee Issue Next Week PRICE 10 CENTS Dance, Carnival Top Big Winter Weekend A unique costume dance and a winter sports carnival will feature the 1952 version of Winter Weekend, which will be Visiting Lecturer ou Campus Annual· Weekend Fetes Sub- Frosh held next Friday and Saturday. · By Herbert L. Spira Dance Saturday ~------~------------~-- The \Snowbrawl sponsored by . the Student Counci·l and supported by Student Tax funds, is expected to fill the .gym with upwards of 400 Concordy Week couples Saturday night. Booths, Nex:t weelt ·bJas been pro- ' located in the bleachers, will be claimed as Concoi·diensis Week decorated by fraternities and. inde- by Dr. Carler Davidtron in pendants in. keeping with themes honor of the newspaper's selected by the groups in competi- · . seventy-fifth. anniversary. Union College and her fraternities will be cast as hosts this weekend, as over 250 scholastic standouts from eleven states pour through tradition-steeped gates to participate in the 'annual Sub-Freshman Weekend. This year's weekend will see a program of enlarged _sc0pe, as more prospective freshmen will be on campus than at any time since the event was inaugurated in 1936. tion for the Winter Weekend trophy. Tommy DeVito· and his Prof. Codnlaoo. Higj,op will de- orchestra wjll play from 8 to mid- liver a talk in Memorial (!)hapel night, with dancing both upstairs Tuesday on the history of the and down to accommodate the ex- Concordiensis. A. special com- pacted throng. Many fraternities lnemomtive issue will be pub- are pla:nning post-dance .parties. · lished next Friday celebrating the Diamond Jubilee anniver- Some .top-notch intermission en- sary. This paper will consist of tertainment is plann~d. Larsen to and Engels, magicians, will pE;r- 10 pa;ges, prilllltrily devoted form and the Pastels Trio will the Ooncordy's history and in- supply some intermission novelty eluding old stmies and pictures Nicholas de Rochefort, visiting lecturer on campus this past week, shown here with Dr. Carter Davidson just before delivering his Tuesday night lecture in Old Chapel. music. Free refreshments will be of special interest, recollections E·xpansi· on served, the only cost for the entire of old Union by former Con- · · affair being a, donation at the door. ·cordiensis editors, and stories • The committee is asking a one on the growth .of the Concord- By Soviet• s dollar donation from each couple iensiS and previous Union Col- to help cover the Weekend ex- lege publications. A I d Set Chapel On Rushing Deferment ------------------------------~ ·Honor Knapp. On College's Anniversary Union College will cele- brate the 157th anniversary of the founding of the College at the annual Founders' Day ceremony to be held on Mon- . day, February 25th, at 11 :00 a.m. in the College Memorial ·Chapel. pe;:;s. Cohn, Weekend chairman, Is na yze ;P ointed ou:t that the dance is strict- Elect Four N' 1 d R h f t The Student Council agreed To Honor Knapp 'ly an l'nformal affair and students Dr. lCO as e 0 ~ ed or ' The highlight of the ceremonies · t t' lly recognize ex on a February 26 chapel to are invited to \come as they like.\ Ill ema 10na - will be the designation of Seaman Although many of the \Snow- T s. x· pert on Russian and Euro- dliseuss deferrred .rushing at A. Knapp, class of 1856, as a Union brawlers\ will be in costume, regu- 0 Igffia . } pean affairs, completed a two its meeting Tuesday night. College Worthy. This honor is be- Iar sports attire will also be suit- day visit to the Union College While this may later be called stowed at;!nually on an outstanding able, he added. · . t d t b d t' •t • Union alumnus for his dis- Four seniors, Normand c. Blais, campus Wednesday. Durmg a s u en 0 y mee mg, 1 IS tinguished service in his chosen Carnival in Central Park Bruce Franklin, Gerald E. O'Lough- his stay, Dr. de Rochefort, tentatively scheduled a stu- field. Saturday afternoon's Winter lin, and Thomas H. Putnam were met with sev~ral classes and dent forum to diseuss de- Seaman Knapp was a noted agri- Carnival will be held in Central elected to associate membership in . addressed student and fac- finite plans for deferring the culturist and is regarded as the Park,. coincident with a co-ed de- l t rt f h • father of the idea of farm demon- B Sigma Xi, honorary scientific fra- ulty groups as wel as pre- S a 0 rus mg. stration work'. Present day evi- corating party· in the gym. uses (also free of charge) will leave the ternity, last month. Prof. Cecil W. senting a lecture to the gen- IFO Votes 8 We'eks dence of his pioneering in this field campus from in front of Memorial Byers, secretary, also announced eral public. • The Interfraternity Council at its is reflected in the- highly successful Chapel at 1:30, 2:00 and 2:30 Sat- the election ·of Dr. Charles F. Spoke on Soviet Expansion meeting t~ weeks ago .approved Farm Bureau program conducted urday afternoon to carry Week- a plan to defer rushing until after by the United States Department enders to the Park for the outdoor Crampton, Union '48, to full mem- The Tuesday evening lecture was the ad interim grade report in of Agriculture with which Knapp festivities.· Weather permitting, bership in the society. co-sponsored by the Schenectady November. This may be one of was associated from 1898 to 1911. b · 1 dd'ng .chapter of L'Alliance Francaise and the plans discussed in the Febru- • T\-ee \'peakers Featured ice skating, to oggamng, s e I Blais, from Springfield, Mass., is embodied many of the essential ..... P and snow sculpturing will be of- a Physics Major. He was elected poi'nts that Dr. de Rochefort was to ary 26 chapel. Principal speakers at the cere- t ff '11 be served The · Student Council took no fered. Ho co ee WI • to membership in· Phi Beta Kappa elaborate on durm· g his stay at mony will be Benjamin Fine, edu- f . r Iroquois vote because of the lack of a around a camp Ire nea fraternity in November. A member Uni'on. Speaking on the subJ'ect, cation editor of the New York k B 'll re' turn to the quorum at that stage of the meet- T' H B Arth s 'ft d La e. us,es Wl . of Kappa Sigma fraternity, he was \Sovi'et Expan. sionism. : Aims, Imes, enry · . ur, WI an 1 t · the afternoon In Cl b ing. President David ·Walrath sug- · t d p f campus a er m · president of the Flying u . Methods and Means,\ Dr, de Roche- Company economis , an ro . time for students to attend several f B' fort brought out the maJ'or premise gestea the chapel program and Daniel Weeks. Mr. Fine is an out- d . t' Franklin, an E.E., is rom mg- Chapel Committee Jay Cohn said · pre- mner par IeS. t D Ita that the h!'storical traditions of a standing writer in the field of edu- d hamton, N. Y. He belongs o e that he would schedule the pro- b · t I The Weekend will get un erway b country n~e not readily changed; cation and pu hci y. n 1944 he . d Phi fraternity, and is a mem er ~ gram for February 26, · d th p l't f Friday evening with Jayvee an even by revolution.' The historical recmve e u 1 zer award or a . th of AIEE and played freshman Paul Woo(ls, chairman of the t\ th varsity basketball g_ames m e background of R.ussia reveals many series of ar 1cles on e teaching 1 football. Orientation Investigation Commit- A · H' t · th h 1 gym. Following the games. , near Y factors of n. atitmal development, of mencan IS ory m e sc oo s 'll h ld open tee, submitted a report of his d - 11 · th u s h' h all fraternity houses WI 0 · Fourteen Activities prior to the Soviet state, that must an co eges m e · · w IC U l ·ty - group recommending the abolish- h t f th N y 1 T' houses for the campus comm n · still be regarded as major influ- e wro e or e ew or t Imes. The Independent Organization is O'Loughlin, an E.E., is also from ences in Russian policy.- In the ment of hazing. The committee, He has received several awards for 'also planning a party in Silliman Binghamton, N. Y. He is- currently light of this observation, Dr. de consisting of Woods, Richard his interpretation of, and interest Hall. It will be the first social chairman of the Student Tax Com- Rochefort pointed out, \The. Soviet Nemeth,. Benjamin Thelin, and in, methods of education in schools function of the new group of non.- mittee, President of. the Delphic foreign policy between 1945 and Anthony Tartaglia, cited as its rea- and colleges. A graduate of Rhode ...fraternity men. Society, and a member of the Bloc:k the present time has been a series sons, Island State College and Columbia \U\ Society, the Board of Man- of gigantic blunders.\ \We are of the opinion that University School of Journalism, he U 1 9 th p bl' ·t· n Board the Freshmen Orientation should be as t · · t f h d Classes as sua • agers, e u ma 1o . , · To substantiate this point, Dr. de is he recipien o onorary egrees d 1 Sa t- Student Council, the Student Af- Rochefort brought out the two rna- its name implies-an orientation from Yeshiva University, Bryant Classes will be hel as usua fai'rs and Relati\ons comm1\ttee th- e per1'od f-or fres.hmen The purpo-se· d I · h airls will· J\or motivations of Soviet expansion- · ' College, R. I., Rho e sland State urday morning,. owever o Adm 1 ·ssi'ons Committee, and Hale of or1'entat1'on should be to acqua1'nt v 1 , th 1 oms Pro ism, historically determined, and · · College, Lebanon al ey College, be welcome In 'El c assro • - Club. O'Loughli\n was co-captain. of the freshmen with the college, to t u · 't f T 1 d t d d · vi'tation both vital today. The first is to and he mvers1 Y o o e o. fessots have ex en e an m the · football team ·last fall· and a b 'ld u I nd school sp' 't b 1 \ t \ me as be found in the geographical loca- ill P c ass a · In • Henry B. Arthur graduated from for \Snow raw ers 0 co m· ember o· f the basketball te. am, and to develop a feeling of \be- · c 1 · 1926 tion of Russia which leaves her Umon o lege m and received they li~e.\ the Jun1'o\ Prom Commi'ttee, the - longi'ng\ ,. .. ost of the hazi'ng prac h' M A d Ph D f H d • without any natural ftonttil;!t:S that ·. · .a.u - IS •• an . . rom arvar While many of the heartier souls IFC, and the SDC. He is a mem- can be easily protected. Since 1945 tices carried out in the past do not University. From 1928 to 1932 he. are at Central Park Saturday af- ber of Delta Phi fraternity. Russia has made frantic .efforts to help to fulfill this purpose.\ did research and instructing in tern.oon, some fraternity men and · t H d I 1936 h P tna E E , ·s from gai'n an accessible outlet to the . Rivalry Week Over Hazin. g economms a arvar . n e indep· endents will be at the gym u m, an · ·• I S 1 C H . · a member of Atlant1'c ocean., Dr. de Rochefort The group also recommended the· joined Swift and Company in Chi- p reparing the \atmosphere\ for the a em, onn. e 1s WRUC AIEE a D It Up I 'lon ·said. This has led the Russians ·organization of a Freshman Coun- cago and was elected to the office \Snowbrawl\ in the evening. · , , an e a s fraternity. in the direction of the Middle East. cil which could participate in the . of Economist in 1939. During the ----•0 ===:::__ __________________ ~------- planning of the Orientation pro- war he served as consultant on gram. Rivalry Week was proposed rationing: for the Office of Price to \supplant hazing altogether.\ Administration. From 1948 to 1949 Patterson Leaves Colleg·e $5,000 The sum of $5,000 was bequeathed to Union College by the late Robert· Porter Patterson, class of 1912,. former Secretary of War, it was announced last week. According to. the provisions of Judge Patterson's will, the bequest is to be added to the general en- doWment funds of the College. Featured at Art Exhibit . A sophomore committee was in- a--- eluded in the re·port 1 the name Sophomore Discipline Committee was submitted as a poor title. The committee suggested the re- institiltlon. of a freshman cheering block at football games tc:> increase the spirit of the class and the school. The committee said that Frosh Elections Set Next Week John Moses, Chairman of the Student Council elections commit- tee, has announced that Freshman class elections will be held Wed- nesday and Thursday, February 20 and 21 at West College from 12 to 5 both afternoons. Dean Opens Program In that year Union became one of the first colleges hi the country to institute an official Sub-Fresh- man gathering to prov.ide an op- portunity for .prospective entrants to get acquainted with the College, its facilities, and each other. At 8:00 p.m. Friday, Dean C. William Huntley will launch the eventful program planr.ed to accomplish this by introducing representatives of the faculty at Memorial Chapel. These academic representatives will in turn explain the nature of the curriculum in the various courses. This will be followed quickly by a forum on Student Activities and Athletics at Union, to allay any possible Sub-Frosh fears that Union over-emphasizes the aca- demic side of college at the ex- pense of a well-rounded under- graduate development .. Following a mock debate by the Philoma.. theans, Don Schwartz, Editor of the Concordiensis, will discuss pub- lications; John Moses will repre- sent WRUC; Henry Bernhardt will explain the Flying Club; Paul Woods will summarize the activi· ties of all musical or.gar:izations, and Wilfred C. Ketz, Co-ordinator of Student Activities, will discuss activities in general. Saturday's agenda will be high- lighted by a movie showing Foot- ball Highlights of the past season -narrated by Coach Sam Hammer- strom at 3:30 in Old Chapel. Presi- dent Carter pavidson will formal- ly welcome the guests at dinner in West College preceding the tradi- tional battle between Union's J.V. and Varsity basketball teams with arch-rival R.P.I. at Alumni Gym. Will Visit Classes In addition to the atheltic enter- tainment on Saturday, the sub- freshmen will have a chance to. see most of the classes and labora- tories in action through the co-op- eration of the academic branch of the school. Exhibits will illustrate the operation of several courses and a sightseeing trip will brief the sub-frosh on interesting tradi- tion and points of importance. The host fraternities, who take care· of all of our guests needs, will also offer supplementary diversions to . make tqeir visit even more varied and enjoyable. Jack Pearson and Rex Moon of the Admission.s office will be on call around the c1ock during ,the weekend for interviews and infor- mation. Sunday, guests Will be in- vited to attend the student-led wor- ship service in Memm:ial Chapel, 'while dinner at the fraternity houses will conclude the weekend schedule. -----0--- Delphics Announc-e Parents Weekend Parents Weekend will be held April 19-20 for the second con- secutive year, the Delphic Society announced this week. The week- end, hailed as a great. success last year, is planned to be continued as an annual event. Judge Patterson, who was killed in the Newark, N. J., plan,e crash of January 22, had been a life .!:;:::_~:! trustee of Union since 1927. His Pictured above are two paintings last visit to the campus wafi in currently on display in Old Clfapel 1948 when he was the keynote from the General Electric Cc:>. ex- speaker at the kickoff dinner for the Union College :Memorial Field hibit of calendar a-r~. I-iouse drive. Generar Electric annually com- According to the Associated -missions noted c on temp o r a r Y Press, Judge Patterson's .estate American artists to develop .a pic- totaled about $30;000; approximately ture exemplifying a special till).e $20,000 in personal beloiigin.gs and of the year, These works are then $10;000 in .propert;9\. reprinted on GE calendars. The main steps of reproducing. the .paintings on calendars is also shown In the exhtbit. The exhibit was made possible through the coordinated ·efforts of Prof. Bradbury and the publicity department of GE. Future arts shows to be held on campus are: M<J,rch 3-10, Victor Hugo exhibi- tion, and March 30-April 12, an exhibition of Goethe. · more of a pep :tally shoulQ. be made of the pajama parade, yvith plan- ning under -a separate committee. The committee finally doubted the success of the Thursday ·orienta- tion lectures and suggested that the faculty \seriously reconsider them before going through with plans for next year.\ The report will be mimeographed and circulated to ali members of the Council and voted upon at the next meeting. John Carrierre made a tempor- ary report ·of the Mountebanks In- vestigating Committee, Carrierre. reported the completion of the poll - (Continued on: .. Page 4) · Petitions with at least fifteen names must be left in the Student Activities Office by Tuesday, Feb- ruary 19 at 12 noon. The frosh will vote for four officers and five Student Council representatives. Any frosh can petition for an of- fice of his class or a seat on the Council. A person, if elected to either of the lower three offices, vice-president, secretary or treas- urer, may petition for studE>nt c'ouncil representative, but can only hold ·One class office. Gerald E. O'Loughlin, president, appointed Richard S. Nemeth and Donald E. Schwartz as co-chair- men of the weekend. Sub-commit- tee heads include John Mose:;~, Jay Cohn,. Paul Woods, and Paul Car- bone. Letters of invitation to par- ents of all Union men are expected to be mailed shortly. O'Loughlln was re-elected ~presi­ dent of the Society at the Monday meeting. Moses was elected vice- president and Herbert E. Rie was re-elected vice-president. Acting in thir capacity as of- ficial college hosts, the Delphics will Welcome and, register the sub- freshmen this weekend.

2 arnurnr Member Associated Col- legiate Preas and dlstri- butor o! the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advevtialng Service. Inc., College PubllsherB Representatice, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Offlce,Washburn Hall. Union College. Pub- lication Offi~e. The G;t- zstte Press, 331 State St. F:nten'<l in the Schenec- tady Poet Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, su bscrlpt!on lOc a copy; S3 year delivered an:Y· wher-e In the United States. SE~IOR BOARD DONALD E. SCHWAR1'Z '52 . . .. . . • . . .. • .. . . . . . . . . . . . li:dltor-in-Chlef JOHN J. CASSIDY JR. '53 ......................•.•• :\!~waging Editor IRWIN S. BARG '53 ...................... , .............. Sports ELiitor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . Feature Editor !o.IARTIN B. GORDON '54 ................................ Copy Editor ALFRED L. GOLDBERGER '54 .......................... Copy Editor ALAN S. FORMAN '53 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . • • . • Photography Editor GEORGE J. \\'Rl'BEL ·:.:l ............................. Busiuess :'llawtger HORACE VAN VOA8T '52 ....................... Cir<·ulatiou Manager JUNIOR BOAR.ll HERBERT L. SPIRA '54 ....................... Assistant Copy Editor MARTIN HAUSER '55 .. , ....................... Assistal)t Copy ]!::tUtor ALFRED H. KINGON '53 ......... ·~ ........ , Assistant Feature Editor HERBERT L. HILLER '52 ....................... - .. Exchange Editor HO\\'AHD BRODY '52 ............................... Ex<'hauge Editor ROBERT SILVERMAN '53 ................ Assistant Businees ll!anager CURTIS BATB3 '53 , •..•.....•........ A:;;sistant L'ir<'ulation 1-'lanager REPORTERS Peter Adler, Marvin Boris, Herbert Guston, Richard Heimann, Gary Katz Lewis Klein, Eliot Loshalt, !\Iartin Portnoy. Arthur RoRenfeld, Stewar-t Robinson \Vatter Salm, Alfred ::>colt. Donald Simmons, David Smith, Arthur Stoeltman, Herb~1·t Wilham:;;, l'aul Gilbert. 1JGSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Deck. Lawrence Greenberg. CUI.ClJLA'I'ION STAFF J. Lowell JDavis, Joe ~1a1tin, !Ja\·itl Grown. James Fitmaurice, Hichard Borst, Robert S eydeL A Sound IFC Plan The Interfraternity Council, at its Just meeting voted to delay the start of the formal rushing period unth after the ad interim grade report in November. This practically. assures us that there will be no pledging until after the be- ginning of the second semester. A meeting of the student body in l\Iemorial Chapel February 26 will discuss the ne\v rushing procedures. The IFC will formally present its plan at th~lt time, but the floor will be open for all new suggestions. Great dissatisfaction was voiced last semester with the four weeks rushing pel'iod. When discussion turned to lengthening the period, many fraternity men talked in terms of six or eight weeks. We feel that ).}€l'iod of less than one semester is only slightly better than foul' weeks and solves no problem. During all this discussion, emphasis has centered around how a lengthened period will affect fraternities. We feel that main consideration should be for the freshmen who are affected by the fraternities and by rushing. A four weeks period eases the financial burden of 1·ushing for the houses, but it produces many hardships fOl,. the freshmen. We give Out' support to the IFC plan, on several condi- tions. We would like to see pledging begin no sooner than the start of the second semester. Union iratemities lag be- hind most of the< Eastern colleges in this respect, many of whom have delayed pledging until the sophomore year. How- ever, we don't feel Union fraternities are prepared to accept a longer period than one semester at this time. Neverthe- less, it is a great improvement over the old method. Second, we would like to see a plan formulated for rotat- ing meals in fraternit;>r houses for aU freshmen who express a desire to join fraternities. The Student Counci\l has en- dorsed the plan and the college has expressed willingness to administer it. This could be done during the first eight weeks of the term and it would acquaint both freshmen and fraternity men with eaeh other without the evils promulgated by cut throat rushing. Third, we would Ji]{e to see a study initiated of preferen- tial pledging. This is a system where fraternities and rushees indicate their preferences and are then paired off to the greatest satisfaction possible of both parties. This could also be administered by the college. Union is not pre- pared to accept this as : ., the near future. A study initiated now could hasten the day and we feel the· step is advisable. We urge you tD vote for the IFC plan at the student body rneeting~and to endo1·se these conditions which we have enumerated. D.E.S. Disdain and Distaste We noted with a great deal of disdain and distaste last week the editorial appearing under the superfluous \Notes and Comments\ title in the current issue of the Idol. Apart from the verity of his rep<Jri:ed facts, which we contest, the conclusions drawn by \Tip\ are indicative of a sophomoric reasoning process. With an obviously large lack of information, \Tip\ has, at the expense <Jf those who are visiting with us this year, expounded a vague philosophy of Americanism, culminating in what he thinks is good old red, white and blue initiative. We are lucky enough, how- ever, to be given good reason for the supposed submissive attitude on the part of the HELP students. By covering the entire European area under one blanket of psychological theory, \Tip\ understands, and forgives all. We don't feel, however, that the HELP plan is in use merely to reassure us of our own complacently inferred superiority. If that is all that \Tip\ has gotten out of it, then it has been a waste of time and money for him. He is evidently suffering under the delusion that the coming lead- ers of other countries must first be re-educated and indoc- trinatetl in the \American\ way of life. Alld we are inter- ested to know, furthermore, just on what basis \Tip'; pro- pounds his dichotic philosophy in days when so few people are found who ate self-assured to the point of smugness. Heimann FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 1'5. l952 SOUND AND FURY 'Golden Boy'' Reborn· [ theater whirled By MonrDe Silverman By Richa):d G. Heimmm. The questions of war and peace take -on an enormous significance today when we realize tha:t our at- titudes concern- ing them may help commit Us to one or the other. It becomes imperative, then, fo1· us to 0xamin<' the basic beliefs bf'hind our ac- tions. U war is un- avoidable t hen we are perhaps following the '\\ isest course. That is, milita-rization and war pncpara- t-ion arc> then necessary. However, if war is not inevitable, if peace is at all possible, theq this prepara- tion for war is t>xtremely danger- ous. Aside from the interr.al dam- age it .ra uses (i.e. higher taxes, lower living standards, restricted civil liberties, militarization, etc.) a war program may prEtcipiate a war. In the past, milita1•y strength. and prcparedn'ess has never pre- vented aggression, but armed camps and militarized nations have helped cause war. The fears and ter:sions generated by the present arms race may very well make peace impossible. The major question, therefore, is: Is war inevitable?-beca:use if there is even a slight possibility of peace then our rearmament program, which can destroy that possibility, must be altered. It is conceivable, of course, that tht> Soviet Union is planning to eonq.uer the world by force and that war is unavoidable. However, there arP marcy considerations VI hich militate against this belief, many facts which lead us to the conclusion that peace is not unat- tainable. First, of course, we have the Soviet Union's official declara- tion of policy-their statements in supprlrt of peace and in advocacy of disarmament; Stalin's statement that capitalism and communism can exist together peacefully, etc. We know also that an essential item of communist belief is that capita:lism must fall of its own ac- cord, that the revolution cannot be accomplished by waf. We have also ·the fact that the largest item of Soviet expenditure in 1951 was not for war (as in the U.S.) but for the irrigation of a desert. And -most important, the Soviets had a bitter taste of war in W.W.Il dur- ing which great portions of their c.ountry were ravaged and millicns of their people slaughtered. If we can accept the claim of the &ornmunists that they do not want .war, how, then, can we ·explain their large army, war preparations, etc,? They explain these moves as d:efensive, as being inspired by fear of Western aggression. These mfl- tives, of course, appear absurd to us because· we know we contem- plate. no such aggression. However, it is possible that to the Russians these apprehensions are real. Soviet experience with American intervention against Rus- sia in 1911, w-ith the Cordon Sani- tatre of the western powers after W.w.r., and more recently with our Truman Doctrine, aJ: the· At- lantk Pact and stockpjlin:g of A-bombs-aU these could easily give rise to the fear and mistrust that the Soviets claim. lust as you and I know that the American actions are n0t aggressive, but a1'e merely attempts to pr·otect oUr- selves against possible Russian .ag- gt·ession-so also it is likely that the Russians believe thq.t their own actions are defensive an.d are mere- ly for protection against a West- ern attack. · If this analysis, that the war pJ·eparations of the East and West are motivated by fear and that each believes his condemnation cf the -other is correct then our- pre- sent actions are dangerous. Fur- ther, militari2ation (such as U.M.T.) that we contemplate can only heighten the tensions and fears and lessen the chances for peace. Instead, what is necessary is a cessation of war preparations, a se['ious attempt at disar.mament, and a conference with the Soviet Union to settle our differences amicably. This must occur in an atmosphere of g·reater undet•stand- ing with the realization that though we both suspect each other both our motives may be sincere, The altemative to this is war. The 1;hird production fOI' ANTA Playhouse this season be Clifford Odet'll \Golden the .famiiial bonds in OJ,'der to lead his will own life. But it is more than a \ fahle -of the struggle for existence. Originally pro- duced in the 30's by the Group Theatre, Luther Adler was starred and Morri~ Gar- novsky and John G a r fi e 1 d \v(lre among the feat~ ured play~rs. It is reported that the play was' or, iginally written for Mr. Garfield, known at the time, it was the opinion ·of Harold C!Iurman, dJrec- tor, and other associated with the production that Mr. Adler be given the lead. Well; Garfield finally comes into his own. This p_roQ.uc- tion toured the summer circuit last year, and was met with a good dca:I of success wherever it played. It is easy to see why Garfield was so anxious to· do the part. A fine actor,. he maltes what is considet•ed by many as Octet's greatest play a more than worthwhile and en- joyable ex;perience. · It is not ·uncommon for the same people who were head over heels enthusiastic about this play to be, come mildly .passive in regards. to it years 'later. Not that it is par- ticularly .topical, as is ''Waiting For Lefty.\ Lt -is probably that this play· sums up and rnagnifit;!ently expresses something that most young people Want to say them- selves. The story of a violinist turned-prize-fighter,. the· story re- presents the strug.gles of a young, sensitive human who must cut the Is Opposed to Logic as Alternative Dear Editor: . I~ is a war betwe\l_n idealism and materialism, as seen through the eyes of a maturing indivadual; confused ahc;l distraught in a world of urban irregularities. I had oc- casion to see Mr. Garfield in it this summer, and ·re·commen-d it as one of the .finest evenings of enter- t<!<inment y:ou could invest in. Thet·€ has also ·been a revival of another playwright on Broadway this ye;a,r. Two of Eugene O'Neil's plays have been ·presented: \Desire • Under the Elms,\ a,lid \An.na Chris- tie.!' Although \Anna Christie\ is not regarded as one of Mr. 0'Nei1's most importalit plays, it has met with very warm reception, and with Celeste Holm and kevin Mc- Carthy in leading roles has.entered upon an extenc;led stay int New York. \Desire Under the imms\ and ANTA production starrin'g Karl Malden, was alsq received more than warmly, and is running overtime· in the city. For most of us here at school who don't get too much of a chance t(} get to see these shows, .there ' is one medium which is easy to get at and wl;iich pl'esents- a fairly g-ood represe1;1ts.tion of time-tested scripts. \Theat:r;e Guild ·on the Air,\ produced every Sunday night for an heur over one of ,the )eac;ling netw.orks, brings to its microphones some of the best adaptations that have been produced. Under the com- petent direction of people like Homer Fickett, they alternate be- tween stage and screen actors and come up with some of the most in- teresting and entertaining pro- grams on the air. literature. They would be thinlting with abstractions, and the conclu~ sions at which they arrived would be useful.· I would consent to- an optional course in English litev ature, but I would not consent to an optio-nal logic course. Logic is not a good substitute for mathe- matics. Sincerely, ROBERT BALLARD ---0--- For Your Information I was horror-stricken to read that the Studen·t Council had pro- posed an optional logic course for freshmen mathematics: logic is such a :poor replacement for a good math course. Or does the Council mean that the present freshmen math course· is not a good course? But if they meant this, they should have asked for an improvement in Letter Contest the present course. The only re- The Concordiensis and Chester- spect in which a logic course can field representative Harvey Kron- FRIDAY, FEB. 15 SUB-FRESH- MAN WEEK-END; Daily Assem- bly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; 3-7 p.m. Sub-FreE<hman Registra- tion HH; 6 p.m. dinner with hosts; 8 p.m. Introductions by Dean Hunt- ley, MC; \Student Act!;vities and Athletics at Union College,\ OC, 9 p.m.; Open House in Rathskeller, 10:30 p.m. Faculty Woman's Club meets with Mrs. E. S. C. Smith, 856 Nott Street, 3 p.m. SATl;RDAl\ FEB. 16 - SUB- FRESHMAN WEEK-END. Visits to classes and laboratories, 8 a.m.; Late registratior.s at admissions office; \ROTC at Union College\ OC, 10 a.m.; 11-12 noon, Gym and _pool open for guests, 12:30 lunch- eon; 1:30 p.m. tour of campus; 3:30 p.m. \Football Highlights of 1951\ ·by Coach Samuel Hammer· strom, OC; 5:30 p.m. Dinner at West College with welcome by President Davidson; 7 ·p.m. Junior Varsity Basketball, Union vs. RPI; 8:30 p.m. Union vs. RPI, Gym. SUNDAY, FEB. 17-ll a.m. Service of Worship, MC. World Student Christian Federation, Universal Day of Prayer, conduetPd by Del- bert Wemple, '53, and James D. Brown, '55. MONDAY, FEB. 18--Daily Assem- bly-Student Forum MC, noon; Glee Club rehearsal OC, 7 p.m. CONCORDIENSIS WEEK. Writer Protests Vacation Schedule Dear Sir: In behalf of the Union College Christian Association I would like to bring it to the attention of the students of Union College that spring recess this semester is scheduled for the week of March 29-April 7 which is one fllll wee!~ before Easte1· Sunday. The mem- bership of the Christian Association has gone on record as opopsing this action which is in direct contradic- tion to college policy of the past few years.· As far as so-called scheduling difficulties are concerned it may be pointed out that although the time when Easter comes varies from year to year the time when it will com.e may be determined far in advance and sched·ules adjusted according Iy. Certainly in the fall term Christmas recess is still ob- served although it does not divide the term into two equidistant parts. It is unfortunate that the Faculty Council has taken the action it has this year for undoubtedly: there are TUESDAY, FEB. J.9~Daily Assem- be compared with a good math ick have an.nounced tbat the \Let- bly, Spealter, Prof. Cadman Hislop, course is in iJs ability to promote ter to the Editor\ contest held '31, MC, noon; American Roclret thinking. Mathematics offers the monthly by- the Concordy will be Society, CE 106, 8 p.m. other two advantages of producing continued during the spring term. WEDNESDAY, FEB. 20--Repeated some useful conclusions and of Each month the writer of the best Course Fee Pa.yable, Room No, 3, dealing with abstractions. But letter will receive a carton of Admns. Bldg. 8:30-11:30, 1-a:30 some freshmen might say that the Chesterfields. p.m.; Jr. Varsity .Swimming, Union conclusions offered by mathematics Kronick also announced that the vs. Albany Academy at Albany, 4 is not useful to them. Then they Basketball Score Contests will con- p.m.; Glee Club rehearsal, OC, 4 :30- are the ones who would profit tinue at the book store for each 5 :30 p.m.; :Varsity :Basketball, · more by a stiff course in English remaining 'home game Union vs. Trinity, at Schenectady - 7 p.m.; COLLEGE LECTURE ceo- operative Evening Assemblies) MC, 8 p.m. W. H. Lawrence, newspaiJer cm·respondent, \Eyes on Washillg- ton,\ TWO POINTS CREDIT· Varsity Basketball, 'union vs. Trin~ ity, at Schenectady, 8 :30 p.m.; AlEE (Sch'dy Chapter) EE 22 8 p.m.; ASCE, OC 7:30 p.m. ' THURSDAY, FEB. 21-Daily As- sembly- World Citizenship Series, Speal{er, Guest Student, Kurt Pohl of Germany, MC, n<1on; Mr. Fred- erick H. Lewis of the New York Herald Tribune \Fresh Air :Fund\ here to interview prospective camp counselors; Joint Meeting, ASME and AIEE, MC, 8 p.m., speaker, Mr. Elmer Lindseth of the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company; Basketb!l)l, Nott Terrace H. S. vs. Albany H. S. in Gy.m at 7 :30 p.m. FRIDAY, FEB 22-SATlJRDAY, FEB. 23-WINTER WEEKEND. Classes on Saturday morning as ·usua.l. still many students who will be disappointed at not being able to celebrate Holy Week at home with ..their friends and families. Yours sincerely, ROBERT C. SMITH Vice-President of the Union College Christian AssociaUon Staff Openings All those interested in apply- : ing for editDrial positions on next • yeir-'s Garnet sl1ould rn:aike ap- · · plication by letter to t}).e Stu- . den!; Activities Office in Wash- , bum Hall by the end of the i • month, coo-editor PaUl Carbone has amtounced. This ·also applies to those interested in ,toJning the · · Garnet staff. A~plications are also being· . aooepted from freshmen for •editor of next year's Freshm:an - REmo-rd:. Those inhirested should write a 'etter stating name, ad- dress, and previous experience to tile FreShmen Record edit.ir, c-() the Student Activities Office. T.HE ACME BARBERSHOP 509 UNION ST. \Where the Service . is a Pleasure•• (Nearest to the Campus) ~---------------------~ l Famous Chinese and 'It • • ! ~;~c;:~·;• f Restaurant I BEST LIQUORS f ·~- AND COCKTAILS. I L~~:~=__:::_~~ VICTORIA Restaurant Speejallzing in Italian Foods Jay Street (Cor. Union) L. G. BALFOUR 00. Frofernily Jewelers aADGES- RINGS- FAVORS . JEwELRY . ~- LEA.TIJEB, GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS · CLUB ,FI:NS - IiEYS l\mDALS - TROPJitEs Write or cali CARL SORENSEN SO 1.\lurra:y Ave.. Waterford, N.Y. PHONE ~ROY-ADAMS 8-2523 AT M. B. Graubarts & Sons We Repair •.• Your WATCHES Your JEWELRY, Your SILVER Utmost care is taken by skilled workers to give you every reason to be pleased. ·-Watches and clocks cleaned and repaired -New watch cases and bands -New watch crystals inserted -Jewelry and silver repfated and repaired ~!~s~~\~ \SERVIHG SCHENECTAD-Y FOR 3 GEtiERA·TIONS'; FRIDA The of RP. newal WednE home in an topper .A,ltho the '78. 17 out 1940. :t a 10 p cumb 5 initial Gym. on-Uni< it on to 10\52. RPJ; the en€ was pr spited : ·dence ' by two of Bru marker season~ was ar marker Co~ age of their ! reboun Hall or: under The posed freshrr senior the sg 12.5 pc on his a 5'11'' scorin1 age t< sensat theE tion t1 men-~ tion il place · Bill B The of valt . ' s

his ·a and the ual; oc- it as I of ' is red ing ool ' rly m- e- to is t- d e FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, _1'952 Varsity ·Quintet PlaYs Baseball Trials J~V. Mermen · Baseball Coach A.l-t Lawrence F AI b Engt_··neers and Trinity·. ~:r;u:;,~t~~:r ~~::rswo~: · · ace · · · any catcher~;, only, on Monda;v, Feb. Coach Ray Mullane will unveil By Lew Klein · 18. Candidates for these posi- the Garnet junior varsity swim- ' . tions are requested to appear in · ming team ne:Xt Wednesday after- The Garnet courtmen ~ill be host to the Cherry and White . the gym at 1::30 P.M. with their . noon when :they face a powerful of RPI tomorrow night at the Alumni Gym in the 78th re- . gloves a,nd' sweat lUliforms. Any·: Albany Academy- team, at Albany. 1 \ f h 1 freshmen interested in :man- This win be the first of two ·en- newa . o,~. one o ·t e o dest rivalries in -college basketball. . agerlal positions are also urged counters with the Academy, .the Wednesday night in the second of the current four game . • !~si:~:d-rit~o~d ~:·a~~~~-·· other one beiog slated for March home stand, the Dutchmen wiH meet a powerful Trinity five .. date~ 5, in Foote Memorial Pool. Albany, · which always •gave· the freshman il_l an attempt to avenge last y~ar'§ trouncing by the Hill- squads some roagh competition in toppers. '$------~------ ·n· .·u.• tch.b.'. oy \.5'' the past, has lost only one meef . this season, t:hat to the powe1'ful Union Le~ds Series West Point Plebes. Host to RPI Although Union has tak~n 44 of Whitman and Bob Gilfillan were Schedule Three Meets the '18 games played, RPI has won removed from the roster e~;~.rly this 17 out of 22 of the games since week. Whitman, a 6'2\ freshman Sam Hammerstrom's junior var- Union's juni<tr varsity will have 1940. Last year the :Dutchmen .blew center, who tallied only 17 points sity plays host to the Engineers' •a very short season this year with a 10 point half-titne lead to sue-, in 11 games but contributed valu- J.V. in Alumni Gymnasium tomor- ,only three meets. The final contest cumb 53-52 to the Engi-neers in the able rebounding play, injured car- ·row night, at 7:00 p.m. The junior for the swimmer's wiJI come when initial contest played in the '87 tilage iii. his knee and will be out quintet has been lookipg forward they meet RPI's jayvees, again in Gym. However, in the !'eturn bout • for the rest of the season. Gilfillan· to the game and• are all ready for •Foote Pool, on March 1. on-Union's court, the \Garnet .poured • resigned from the squad because :RPI. Up to date the Dutchmen Mullane has been .giving his boys it on to down the Cherry and White of the pres1;mre of his studies. have won one out of three games. a heavy training .schedule and 10\52. Nistad's Lineup In their opening gaine February .most of the swimmers have been U . · t p· t 6 ga'nst Haml·lto ,, J v th ho practicing since the beginning of RPI has a 2-8 recor.d, but that· mon men or e e Nistad will a 1 n s · . e me the engineers are on the way back· select his starting .Jineup froin Bob club pui!ed the game out of the the school year, along with the was proved by last Saturday's in- Murnay, Glenn Kinns, bale Christy, fire in the last few seconds as varsity. In .addition, Ray has been G B tk . · G · Jerry Tl·s·henl'el h\gh o f ·.giving· his charges some added ex- spited play against a st:rong i?rovi- eorge a 1ew1cz, ene Schwartz- · • , J sc rer or demce quintet. Although RPI lost mann, Joe Sutka, and Jedge Bar- the night with 14 points, threw in perience by running several prac- by two .points, the re6irn to form andes. Murray is a doubtful starter his last basket with three seconds tice meets wi1:h the senior squad. of Bruce Cardell, who· netted ·s2 because of wrist injury which has remaining· in the game. The vic- Sophs D<ominate Squad marker:;; t(} preak the Engineers hampered him lately. Kinns has tory c&n be attributed to ·the fine seasonal individuai scoring record> been as hot as a pistol in recent, all round play of the entire squad.. Several uppercia.ssmen will be was an encouraging factor. The games totaling 105 points in the On Febr\uary ·9; the team traveled featured on this JV team, with markers tG break the Engipeers' last five outings for an average of to Albany State's gymnasium and· Guy ·Cooper, ~ junior, and Dick 20.4 points per game. • lost, a squeaker to State's J.V. by Land, a sopho!llore, swimming in Coach P·ete Nistad Wednesday nfgbt's game against t~e ~core of 61-59. Bob Maye.r in the sprint and distance events. Trinity will be a major test for the. hrs f1rst a:ppearance for the qumtet Jim Farrell, another sophomor\e Garnet hoopsters. The Hilltoppers, ke~t the·game cl~se ~ntil the final will be featured only in the dis· with a three point victory over Ani.- wh1st~e by throwmg m a total of tance events. Sophomore John Bird . -herst under their belts, will pro- 16. pomts. Tl:fe game was marked will handle the 100 yard back- vide Union with some of the tough- • With a h~ge number of personal stroke, in ad<lilion to swimming est opposition all season. Led ·by and technical f'?uls: . the medley relay. Art Thurber and scoring ace Dave Smith the Blue· The Garnet Jumor squ&d then. Don Matteson win complete the and Gold. of Trinity will' employ a traveled to Albany Business Col- trio for the medley relay. f~;~.st break offense in an attempt lege, on February 13 • and lost 59 · 44 · Chris Muhlert, a promising .fresh- to subdue the Dutchmen. Coach Hammerstrom had his beys man, will compete in the breast- Although the Garnet has a poor use a z~ne c;l~fense and, ~sing it stroke and· individual m e d 1 e y seasonal log, Nistad's charges have for t~e f;rst time, were a little lax e;vents. John Sherwood, another played winning ball thus far on keepmg It. Dave Gregory led our freshman, has show!). good form in the home court. As they move in- hoopster§, with 1 0 points. . practice .and will be the squad's to action against RPI tomorrow at Let's all g-et tlut tomorrow mglbt only diver. 8:30, the Dutchmen will be sporting and cheer· OW' teams on to Victory! ___ 0 , __ _ a 2-1 home record. L t' ·y 11 u • ' --o·-- .. e E~ho ~ ~~ 0 ~~~~· Intramural Sked· • Basketball Results u--u N--N I--I 0--.0 N-·--N Union Union Fight Fight (Pause) The fQ!lowing games al'e sched\ uled for the cCJming week o.f intra- mural basketball play, as the sea- son is reaching- the final rounds of play: age of height all season, showed their greatest improvement in the rebounding department with Bob Halloran doing yeoman's duty under both boards. RPI St!Lliers A late Steven's rally, sparked by the sharpshooting and ballhawlting of captain Dick Gerber, downed the Dutchmen 58-54. After leading . all the way, Union fizzled out in the last quarter and surrendered its 45-40- third period margfn to Tech. Steven's attack was led by Dick Gerber who tallied 22 points. High for the Garnet was Gler..n Kinns with 21 and Dale Christie with 9. Prior to this on Wednesday, Union snapped a six-game losing streak by downing Hamilton 62-57. Sutka with 17 and Kinlis with 16 were high scorers. GAZETTE Union Fight! Garnet Yell G-A Rah-Rah R-N Rah-Rah ~T Rah-Rah Garnet-Go! Whistle Fight Chant UllUUUU Nnnnnn Iiiiiiiii Oooooo Nnnnnn Union Fight! Locomotive (Whistle:------•Boom! U-N-I·O-N (Four times) Union' Fight! PRESS The RPI starting lineup is com- posed of three seniors and two freshmen. Vic Nadaskay, a six foot senior from Torrington, Conn. is the. squad's leading scorer with a 12.5 point per gam!:l average. Close on his heels -is little Bruce· Cardell, a 5'11\ gila!:d who due to a recent scoring spurt has upped his aver-· age to 12.3 poip.ts. Charlie Carr, sensational freshman center for the Engineers, will be Gut of ac- tion tomorrow against the Dutch~ · men as a result of wrist disloca- tion in the Providence go. In his place will be either Ken Martin or Printers Bill Bergazyn. · The Garnet ·has suffered losses of valuable reserve players as Paul Gwlalory nole: Appetite comes with eating 0 •• but tlurst departs with drinking Rabelais Feb. 18-P.M. 7:00 8:00 9:00 DU~ROTC BEU~D Chi ASCE-Cbi Psi Feb. 19-P.M. 7:()0 Psi U--Alpha Delt 8:15 Volleyl>all Final Feb. '23c-P.M. 1:()0 2:00 3:0(i 4:00 • Phi Sig Kappa-Alpha DU-KA Sig Phi-KN Sig Chi-Phi Delt Delt Coast Guard N atat·ors Host to ·union Squad By Paul Gilbert 3 Tomorrow afternoon, the Union College splashers, pre- sentlx sporting a 5-1 record, take to the road to New London, Conn., to test the previously untried mermen of the Coast Guard Academy. Paced by Reine~·s 4>----~---------- Last Saturday, Union paced b;y second in the 440, finishing ahead a record-breaking pel'formance by· of Cooper of Union with a time of Werner Reiners, continued on its '5:38.6. Hartmann, a kiple winner winning ways by outclassing City for the 'Garnet, also took fh;st place College, 54-29, in Foote Pool. ·in the 150-yard individual medley Reiners broke the pool record and with a 1:46.3. his own individua;l record in the The Union natators staged an . 220-ya.-rd· free style, by covering the -up-hill battle, and took a 46-39 distance in a stylish 2:22.5. He squeaker from Fordham here last .chopped almost a full second off week The 400-yard relay team his own college record of 2:23.4, was the decisive factor in the ·meet. and. also bettered the pool record Going into the relay, which netted set by Jacques of the Univ. of , the winner seven points and the Massachusetts in 1951. losers nothing, Union was ahead Union copped every event against 39-38. The team of Reiners, Dorse, the Beavers of City College except' Stark and Fink swam Union to two, the 200-yard breaststroke and victory ·with a record-breaking the 440-yard free style. City was .time of 3 >48. bettering the previous reputed to be much stronger club time of 3:50.2 set last year. This than the score seemingly indicated, new time now stands as a coJlege and Coach Ray Mullane had anti- and pool record. ci pa ted that the contest would be --:;;;;;;;;;:~~::=:=::;::;:;::::;;:::;;;;;;;;;;;;:- much closer. r:-L • ) One of the most excitino\' events rt.«,~lhN». .,..J.;,,.~:~. was the 200-yard breaststroke. Op- f ~~~ posing Gerry Geismar and Chris :Muhlert, were Fuladossa and Kel- logg of City. Muhlert seemed to have the inside track at first but then it developed that he had spent himself in the first 100 yards or so alid Fuladossa, who had paced him- self marvellously, came stroking ahead to finish ahead of both Geis- mar and Muhlert who were second and third in that order. Fuladossa's winning time was 2:40.8. Union copped in~ the diving de- partment, as City failed to enter a .participant and so, forfeited the event. Metzger with 78.7 points was the individual winner. Relays Score My Favorite Spy Bob Hope Hody Lamarr also Joan Crawford also St Benny The The 400-yard relay team of Dorsa, Fink, Reiners- and Duffy, in win- ning the event, were a shade off the pool record of 3.48, set against Fordham earlier this year. Hart- · 1::~-&1.11.1~'-Bi· mann, Muhlert and Fink made up the opening 300-yard medley relay · learn, which breezed home in a 3:14.4 effort. Bob Dorse cor.tinued to excel in the 50, and Dick Hart- mann captured first place in the ZOO-yard backstroke. Schloemer and Warchel of City took first and John Payne Rhonda Fleming also It's a Big Cmmtry SAVE 15'%. ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% NOTT ,RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-b-9766 Raw, Steamed Clams .. Meet and Eaf at EDDIE'S'. 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N~ Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.75 for- $5.00 ' \ . ra1se your ·------------ average this term • You can lose .thirst in a . hurry with a bottle of ice-cold Coca-Cola ••. and find spal\kling refreshment. We're willing to bet 1·ight now that reading The New York Times every day will help bting up a sagging average . BOnLED UNDER AUTHORrrY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SeiiENEcTADY COOA-OOLA ~OTTLING COMPANY @ 1952, THE COCA·COLA COMPANY ... We'.re .not. guarant~eing you .. straight A's in all your courses because if you're maJormg m Sanskrit or ancient Babylonian plumbing 'rhe Times may not be much help. (But don't be :oo surprised if you come across something about them, because we follow archeologists all over the world and report their findings.) . But when 1 it come.s to courses like eco, poli sci, government, home economics (yes, e~e~ that·) ,.Enghshand all sorts of other courses, you. just can't beat The Times for g1vmg you the information you need to stay at the head of your class, A?d sine~ ;nost of us aren't total grinds, there~s plenty of entertainment in The T1mes · · • hk~ complete news of sports •.. the movies and~the theatre ... book reviews, •• food· and fashion news ••• a daily crossword puzzle. S<: make this resolution now: I am going to read The New York Times every day 1 hght now, I am going to get in touch with · ·' ROBERT SILVERMAN Kappa Ne Ho'us·e· 7-378.7 SAUL BABBIN Room 404 - West College 6-9491 •

.. 4 Professor Niemeyer Tells St. Andrew's Experien.ces ·~ Board Votes Continuance Traces Rise Of F:inland / Placement News Juniors will receive a notice with- in the week of a general placement FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15. 1952 up at Wells House. Interview will be under the sponsorship,of Dean H;untley at Administration Build- ing. · The following letter was • The Board of Managers over- Kaleir \Cal\ Anttila, Finnish ex-· change student, reported on the evolution of Finnish-Russian re-, lations during noon.-day chape~ 0n, Thursday. ·meeting, Monday, Feb. 25, 7:30 p.m. A numl;ler of compap.ies have in E.E. 22, Seniors or anyone else ·been· added since Bulletin No. 34 interested in placement are cordial- was issued~ These are all scheduled ly in.vited. for March and April and wi:ll be received fl'Om Prof. Carl Nie- The velvet wears thin; edges .fray. whelmingly defeated a bill to m ·eyer Unl'on Colle<>\e nrofes- But the gam:wn~ is still usable, and. abolish itself at its meeting Mon- ' . \' !\ the scarlet .secmmgly does not fade. d<W night. The vote was 17-2. The evening meeting of Bell Sys- announced later. If any of the tern on Feb. 18 is cancelled. Inter-. February interviews is of interest views will be held Feb. 19 and 20, to you, sign up now. When you as scheduled. are particularly interested in any sor of Enghsh, who lS cur- ' \And what is the use of it,\. asks The motion was introduced by rently Exchange Professor ilo an American skeptic, \except that Don Schwartz, editor of the Can- St Andrews University in you save money on an, overcoat? cordiensis. Schwartz later intro- s · tl d Isn't it just a good 1•acltet for the . duced ·a motion to recommend to :Birtb of Finhtnd Of Bulletin No. 34 was out last week. company, consult us about seeing CO an ·. Edinburgh gown-makers?\ The. the Student Council that the Board Begl 'nnl'ng w1'th the ceding the ·represen.tative,-even though · · If you. did not receive a copy, F . Ia d by Sweden to Russ1'a in the· call may be for .men. in other m n · please let us know. It was our in-: It is a late Sunday morning in answer is, I suppose, that the red of Manager's representative on the St. Andrews during term time. gown, like any other uniform, Council be removed. This was de- Last night's North Sea gale has identifies the wearer as a member· fcatcd 14-3. the nineteenth century, a national-' tention to include ali seniOl's, ex-. courses than your own. ist spirit arose in Finland which cept those who had already in- If you {)annat appear fol' any culminated in their gaining inde- formed us th'at they are accepted interview for which you \have pendence at the time of the Rus- at graduate schools or in employ- signed, try to get the message to blown itself out, and the sky is o.f a group with both privileges and· clear, but the .sea has not quite responsibilities. The master's black subsided. Now at high tide, it gow:n shows he is a man of learn- beats on the shore below the Castle ing; the St. Andrews ur.dergradu- and breaks in high waves against ate's red one shows he is on his· the narrow ·stone pier. Built from way to becoming a man of learn- stones of the ruined cathedral on ing. Being learned is a solemn the hill behind it, the pier was J:lo process; hence the master's black. doubt meant to follow a straight The act of learning, its solemnity· line, but the seventeenth century marlied by the gown itself, should villagers who made it had as little be pleasant as well; hC'ncc the stu- knowledge of straight lines as they dent's red. At least, this is my had respect for ancient sanctuaries. t·heory of the gowns' utility and The pier curves gently, as if Na- symbolism. Anyway they are a· ture herself had taken a hand in tradition, and the>re is nothing like the work. A few Sunday strollers a tradition for being hard to ex- walk along its top, being careful plain, hard to stop, and hard to of the slip.pery places caused by start. water from the breaking waves. Flocks of gulls sit on the restless CARL NEilllEYER ---0--- sea. When the waves bz·eak, the gulls utter sharp cries and take w k F H wing, showing white against the or orms ere blue sky and sea. Far inland, but easily visible in the clear air, snow on the Grampian Hills also shows white against the blue. But what might have been brilliance of at- mosphel'e is conected by the gray masonry of cathed!'al and castle and pier. Jn. a world of light and color they stand like a Scottish Sabbath, man-made, grim though in their way beautiful, and not so much hostile as simply setting a standard by which light and color can be judged. For the past few years 1 the Col- lege has sponsored a program de- signed to promote z·econstructlon and development projects through- out the world by giving financial aid to a limitl'd number of students. who are given the opportunity to work abroad for a short period during the summer. In the past Union men have been sent to Europe and Latin America. The Reconstruetion Fund Committee stressed that the student reports have bepn highly enthusiastic about the program. Much of the work done in Europe Votes to Lower Quorum sian Revolution in 1917. For men. Men who will finish their· the Placement office. The Board then considered means. twenty-one years, Finland experi- college work in August or in Janu- of making itself more effective. A eneed the> development of a ,demo- ary, 1953, are invited to register ~-::::::::::::;::;::;:;:;;::::;::;::;:,:~ constitutional amendment, intro- cratic state. During this time rela-. at .the Placement office and attend duced by Larry Levine, president tions with the USSR were g~ow- interviews. of the Philomathcans, to reduce the ing progressively ~o~e stramed , As for group meetings, we again quorum to one-third was carried. and in 1938 the Fmmsh g0Ve~n- state that all students are invited, It must be approved by a two- ment 0utlawed the Commumst The seniors ·receive the bulletins. thirds vote at the next meeting be- Party. and might make the meetings fore it bPcomes part of the consti- War between the two countries known to their undergraduate ac- t ution. began on Nov. 30, 1939. After a · quaintances who would be inter- Chail·man Dave Platt appointed· bitter str.uggle, the Finns sur- ested in the subject. Norrn ScuU, editor of the Fresh- rendered appro~imate'ly one-seventh Handy Associates, interviewing men· Record, as chairman of a com- of their territory and sued for on Feb. 26, are representing Yale mittee to prepare a general in-. peace. & Towne Corp., and Deering Milli- formation bulletin on all activities In the elections following World ken & Co. These consultants Will to be 8ent out to incoming fresh- War II, the Communists showed· undoubtedly have other clients. men during the summer. Platt great strength, but in succeeding· On Feb. 21 Mr. F. H. Lewis wiJ.I also named Paul Woods, president plebiscites, the Communists lost interview for camp counsellors for Jgmes Restaurant • GOOD ·FoOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street of the Glee Club, as chairman of a much of their voting power and ~th~~eH~e~ra~l~d~T~r~ib~u~n~~eA~~l·r~F~·u~n~d~·=S~~z·g~n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ committee to appz·ove activity keys were forced out of the government fi and certificates which will be pre- ministries of which they had been.· sented at Prize Day. able to get control. While Cal The Boal'd then turned to cor~ feels that his homeland is .sym- sideration of problems of various pathetic to the west, Finland hopes activities. \to .be left alone an:d remain neu- tral in case of a new war.': has centered about reconstruction of war damage. The wol'lr is done by student work-camps co-mposed of young m~n and women from throughout the United States and Europe who live and work together for· approximately a month. Last year one Union man worked in a camp at Berlin, anothel' went to London. ---0,--- ·Council :Meeting (Continue<! from Page 1) of the student body, His figures tend to indicate greater interest in Mountebanks participation than was originally anticipated. A final report is expected in the near future. LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY \The College Sfudenfs Drug Store .. CHEMICALS- DRUGS Cor. Nott Terrace and State Street There is more color presently, A little way up North Street in an- other building, gray but lovely, the Sunday morning service of the Uni- versity ha.s cuu1c to ar, enJ·, anJ the students in their scarlet gowns have started their traditional walk to the pier. Among them and over- whelmed by them ate a few black· gowned faculty members and divinity students. The earlier of strollers rettreat, and the crowd walks down the hill and out to the end of the pier to meet itself com- ing back. For perhaps fifteen min- utes the whole pier is alive with scarlet. Then the numbers thin; little groups walk back up the hill to the town and Sunday dinner in the residences. Having unbent a little the Sabbath resumes· its so- briety. Next Sunday there will probably be rain. and the spectacle w!Il be less cheerful. Today it has been exactly as a visitor would like to see it. Do not think the scarlet gown is for Sunday wear only. Bought by bejant and be jan tine in theil' fir:st week at St. Andrews. it is worn to every class, church service, or academic occasion so long as they are resident students. Made of honest Scotch wool, despite its looseness, it serves well enough in the mild British climate for a win- tel' ovet\coat. In the three or some- times four years from bejant to magistrand the owner dors not quite weal' it out. To be sure, aR it grows familiar he comes to WC'nr it with more negligence; the little patch of velvet meant to lie at thP nape of the neck rests instead in the small or middle of the back. (:ampus .foob ~arhtt ~ C/}W/f dfft Chesterfield ~ (}a?/~~c;i'~ /i,~. 2 .. k1 . /ty• I(,~ • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired e Engravin9, too! Jay Jewlery c~o. » ~~ ............... . SIGNE .(.'J . ...... · · PROPRIETOR ~u/ M ILDNESS fJ-!¢ .. ~ NO UNPLEASA~T AFTER·!~~!.~. Of A WELL-Kl'-10 . *fROM THE REPORT . HAS IT I .... AND ONlY CHESTERFIELD .. ·. -· / Vol. 79, His~ Con Cko UnioiJ honored its seve this we· week aE Hislo11 Prof. C er Conca· speech il day at 11 rp.ent of i out .the literary n newspapE pl].per's : Prof. ;E ments ol editors i The Con< to be \a the cult manlines ..• \ He Schwart:i to consi the ·over: tory .•• a staun rights , fostel' fu dividual ity that ligent should t as long apathy : interests \How marked the cant \which have ut man (l have co gerous would h to his I family c Prof. Concord indicate ad in th \Choice bought Street, Hislop, ads tha ing bill! \AS a anniver paper vitality and fol want t• .of all from tl It's gre An< And ac: An< And- w: An hours cordie pick ll of thE temit and t Edito The is don· editor- with a pendlil four o editor while a;vera~ Alth hour~ staff, staffs paper'

3Juhi-lrt l:eur I 8 7 7 I 9 52 Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 79, No. 14 PRICE 1 0 CENTS SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1952 Concordiensis Hails Seventy- Fifth Year Hislop Lauds Concordy in Chapel Talk Union College officially honored the Concordiensis on its seventy-fifth anniversary this week by proclaiming the week as Concordiensis Week. Hislop Traces Developments Prof. Codmaii Hislop '31, a form- er Concordy columnist, delivered a. speech in Memorial Chapel Tues- day at noon, tracing the develop- J+Ient of the newspaper. He pointed out .the steady transition from a literary magazine to a modern style newspaper in the course of the paper's seventy-five year history. Prof. ;Hislop compared the state- ments .of purpose by the original editors in 1877 with the present, The Concordiensis in 1877 promised to be \a genuine representative of the culture and scholarship, the manliness and. enterprise of Union . . .\ He quoted editor Donald E. Schwartz as ·sa,ying \it is essential to consider the Concordiensis In the ·overall context of current his- tory . , . the college paper must be a staunch supporter of student rights , , • of those things that foster fuller development of the in- dividual mind . • . of a responsibil- ity that is fundamental to intel- ligent citizenship.\ The paper, should take a stand on any issue as long as it se:r;ved to destroy apathy and \to promote the best interests of education and society.\ \How times have changed,\ re- marked Prof. Hislop, saying that the contemporary statement is one \which John Payne would never have understood, which Mr. Sea- man (Payne's guardian) would have considered evidence of dan- gerous radicalism, and Dr. Nott would have considered a challenge to his parental authority over his family of students.\ Ads an Index Prof, Hislop tj.lso Illustrated how Concordiensis ·advertisements have indicated the changing times. One ad in the early Concordy days read \Choice Segars\ which could be bought from Mr. Lind on f:itate Street, \but q>Iesti?ned Prof. Hislop, \where are the cigarette . ads that now pay half the print- ing bills of America?\ \As a parting salute on this 75th anniversary of a campus news- paper which has shown endless vitality and capacity for growth and for service to the college, 1 want to quote for tl).e edification .of all concerned a short stanza from the 'Clatter Column' Of 1914: It's great to be an editor, And sit up late at night, And scratch your wool And shoot the bull, And. write, and write, and write.\ --,--~-~-~~___::__._-----iJ•·Founded as a Magazine,· Concordiensis, 1952 \,· ··Became Newspaper in 1916 Seventy-five years of continuous publication .come to a close 'for the Concordiensis with the publication of its . first issue this November. --~--------------------~ ·~Many Salute Newspaper's Anniversary Congratulatory messages poured into the Concordi- ensis office this past week on the oceasion of the news- Originally a Miagazine Many publications 'ventured forth on the Union campus long before the Concordiensis,. but none of them lasted for more th.an a brief spell. Their history is covered else- where in this issue. Starting as a monthly literary magazine, the Concordy has undergone numerous changes before it finally evolved into a newspaper in 1916 and a weekly newspaper in 1943. Pictured above -is a segment of the present Concordiensis staff. Sitting: A. Seott, I. Barg, G. Rt>d- ington, ]), Schwar17.ll (editor), J. Cassidy (managing editor), M. Gordon, and J. Cohn. Stan,ding: L. Levine, R. Beck, A. Forman, H. Splra., G. Wrubel (busineJ;~s mlUlager), W. 'Taylor, L. .· paper's seventy-fifth anni· versary celebration. We re- print below some of the mes- sages which we have received from the College family and from other newspapers. A free press in a free college is just as important to the vitality of democracy on the campus as is a free press in the nation to the democracy In the nation. There- fore, the administration and fac- ulty, of Union congratu)ate the Concordiensis upon its seventy-five years of continuous service to the College and wish for its continued The publication of the ftrst issue resulted from the combined efforts of the freshmen, sophomore, and junior classes to .print an all-college monthly. The first editor of the Concordiensis was J,•F. -Greene '79, a junior. Other editors on the magazine included repr-esentatives from the Law School and the Medica;! School. It took about ten years to overcome financial diffi- culties, but \the official publica- tion of the students of Union Co1~ iege and Union University\ se- cured enough subscription, created enough 'interest, finally gathered enough material and met its dead- lines to firmly entrench Itself. Klein, P. Adler, and M. Hauser. Page 1, Vol. I, No. I THE \!<}J, .• I. Niu. 'the army wh.en ·no1)c but roynl.ty<ould }Iop!.!·fr;r '>'·- --..,..---.---·-·-·-- -.----- · prnmotion, he adVanced ~JOwly at tlrst ; bu~ after cq~1;t1itr of rights was. restored~ his 1-is\1' ·•vas raJ>id. , We see bin1 i<t Napoleon's .battles. 'alt>ng tl1c Rhine:: at.,Vorms and F'mnkforlt. at Stuttgar<l and Zurich. Agotht~ he i~ Mirtister. ·f!lo,Tl11\rer nll ~ Q~os: 'fiJul'rnt naa:.ght?: Ua all -ou1 Ol.~tJir.t.tlrms. :tm1 ~·wr d1.mbLs. DO itlf Uto~l~ :<~nbtle. winged thrJughH. Lenve tracu br!111nd 'lh~m rt<Jnu? When 'in you. tuneful. Otil)fOUS W-.Jod, \Vu w,\.tk·al<>tw nn•;. c:1lru_ly musE!', [)Q pt•rfum~• :(h~:r=r .md' nHIS.tc movt::, l:h.rHoli,tudc\s inspirlnn: tliO~H;bts ~t-ote II~Cf~!\,~,,tJ$1ilc\\S \)f\lVC 1 \V'bcn-ynn<hrr ~tt!n.~ $nru.t•t:l 1}-rc To alrthcdtap~ryo( clo1111, 1>0<:11 cll'tl<.~~s· i'nduentt! leave no tt;u(il 01Jtii!S nf;rJtw~ .1nd.honc~t triohl, Do mOfi:tl'~ti~:t\Ji~~s ;hrawly· won 1 ~u~:s.p:ltilmcl' 1<-\ug: 1tli1·Chamy E:t~lt .uo intlnt•nt:1' !i•l grcal, A.~ motitmi plir~ic;\l·? Be {lr3.1se~ m~u·:~im1t:r life doc~ lt·ll .. t1pun_ .the \'VOrtd,wilbuutluU IYdl. Eacb·hop~. ~<\dt frmr, Wll'ls setrct tlvnu;cllt, ·~Mil bcautttuul ~Qc.,,t·rllhu~tasfo: d rc.un. I::nch purpose fi.JfJI1cd,i.'lr~b wny·wcll ~~:pa. qas streo.~tfh tu l:tst ten tht\~U~ill<l-j't::U!> ~1;15 power to ~ltapu e'eu·.ul:!lt!.trit. 'l'h~y ma1.:e·dn: ma.n. r(lail nJI~c;·thC\-wur!tl. Thr:y' all ue.re.tl',.tluw·mil}'· ra:~.]. :>1/t:RSiiAI. :-iE\'. to Swittcrlarul. and \i.hortly art!,!nmrd it 1Iar- , shal ·of Fnmcc. \Vith C<,uragc ~ cy combim:<l cootn~oi'i and •ound jud~mc~1t. Intbe \tcot ofbuttle.lt<istoud in marble- calmness, t)bscrving .ever)~ n:{ove·nlertt mld ·nt!\cr erring in l1i.; .c;ol\lllland~~~ The:;~ qualiliCfl won hi-. ~ohlicn: ht;a.rt.'i.. . He '·tc9 mt.m . ' where nl\' nlhcr-.gcncr.t! could .. rim!! and again·· did ~apoletJn place in X~y's h:tndS,the fate of th~ Empih:• Of tbc nu~ncro~s ti1:lel( <:unfcrrcd · UJIOh thi .... }u;ro,.the \·ortlilcs't·'\va~'tl1i1t .cf:u l!ra\·- . C4t uf tlie .lJr~w~; .. : to win 'tM~-.nainc from i\tu-· : rat, J\.bcdonalcrnnd Lannes \\o'i.ttq~~at..glory, .\ pa1:c from the )fa:rsbars life 11·ill!llustmte :hj.> ch.uadcr : ~IO->cow WU\\~ ·tilkClt. The burnlng to\V.cirs. \\ere fiarint.:: on:thc Jligltt : hnu~~ were falling l :wall:i \\ere cra-.lling down. W'itlt forty thml~ ~111d men ~C)' wa\l d~.:tailcd.to <;o'\·<:r tl~e retreat. · Th~ .. o)di.:r<> ~ufl\crcll tctri~ly. At C\'cry t~tcp some nne .. ut:Cttmbt;d ·to the· wcary·m.1rch and pinchln.g cold. Thn~c bcllind stumbled .over· the bodit..·-. of tltoo:;c who h.ad Prc.;-cded,. '.Mariy 1 in despair,. threw i'l WR)'' tht!lf fl'1'10S a,nd ·fay dOWU t<> die. Clouds 6f croaking r:wct\s hovered ncar. The wolve~ howlcd:amld th~ snow. The· lAME~ cn~t.t':fT s~WrH, ·J m winter wind )vhistted ·thrqugh the; cold ·pines, 'Mtet·I.\ET .. NK\~ t\.o':ts ~t soldier by iohcritmlce. The i.lriving ~now cut tht: very RCsh. At nig:ht UisJathcr st:nN:~·d in the Seven \'car'i' .w.1r •. an d.fthe \:>oldiers lay down about t:hC!iT·.~rt.s •. and the. nt his f.~tlu!r!s knee he li~tencd ·t•> th~ t.ll~~ '() f ltlnt ntng found circles of dead ·men in their wtlmQ\t5 {leeds that th.rill'cd- bis o.:.oul ami fed plau:s. N\ .. ·y's (orty fbou:mnd men b<.'Cam.e-fi.f .. his inh~rcnt.·tonging t~ be~ o;o\ditr. .tc~.·n hundred. Still be ~tr~~teci·on·~ bims.Ctt .Ncy·conld boa<\ no lofty linc.tgc. E.utcrin.g gnawed ·by .pangs of hunger, his 'bcart bleedirt~ Many Grads On Journals l'ress ·Club Formed Over 300 Union alumni are currently in the fields of ad-. vertising, publishing, radio, movies, or in other related fields. Most of these men have had some experience on the Concordiensis or on some other Union publication. growth in influence, in the quality of its performance, and in the variety of its services. The Concordy was forced to move from printer to printer each year and was frequently hindered by lack of facilities. Although the magazine was essentially literary, it also included campus news, mostly athletic. In 18!l0 the format of the magazine was enlarged and revitalized with new print and The leading field is publishing, magazine, and newspaper worlt where there are 92 Union gradu- ates. B2 are in advertising, 38 are authors, 36 are in. radio, 30 are in public relations, 13 in motion pic- tures, 12 in photography, and 25' are in miscellaneously allied fields. More than one-fourth of the liv- ing former Concordy editors are in these fields. Among them are ·Ralph Knight '17, who is currently associate eidtor of The Saturday Evening Post, C. P. Haskell '27, copy editor of the The New York World Telegram & Sun, and Ernest W. Mandeville '17, president of ~and(lville Press Bureau in New York City. Others include H. W. :Bussman '26, 'Client Service Executive of Nielson Co., New York City; C. F. Hatba.way '35, Accounting Execu- tive with Sullivan, Stauffer, Col- well, 8{. Bayles inc., New York City; James D. Allen '31, Public Relations Director of Catholic Youth, Chicago; Victor :u;. Scales '~2. president of Victor H. Scales CARTER DAVIDSON, President Dean c. William Huntley, a for- cover, and was put out as a semi- mer Concordy sen:lor board mem- monthly. In 1892 it was printed on ber, stated, alternate Wednesdays, and in 1896, \Having been so concerned with under the editorship of Allen Tar- a first birth-day this weE')k, it re- ford '96, it became a weekly. quires something of a char.ge in College interest in the magazine mental-set for me to think of a continued to grow and the Press seventy-fifth anniversary. None- Club was formed in J.899. Philip theless, may I join all of the Union Thompson '00, Conco:rdy editor, College family in .extending greet- was the leader, and the other mem- ings to the Concordiensis and its bers included Gardiner- Kline, Ar- ever changing staff. thur S. Golden, and Lester T. Hub- \Probably few activities on the bard. A picture of these men and collegiate scene are more success- others on the staff hangs over· the ful in causing the administrative copy desk in the Concordlensis hair to recede and gray, but at the office today. same time there is no extra-cur- Knight Main Leader ricular activity which deserves more encouragement. The Ameri- The Concordlensis continued to can 'heritage of freedom of belief develop along the lines of a news. and freedom of the written word 'paper. In the early twentieth cen- beiong on the American campus. tury, it became a semi~weekly Recent Concordy editors have de- .four-to-eight page publication f1•otn monstrated care and thought in .its former 24-page issues. The big exercising this right while at the transition came in September, 1916, same time guarding its mainten- under the leadership of editor ~~once respecting the tenets of fair- Ralph Knight '17, !\.lld l:>u§liness play and good taste. manager Ernest W. Mandeville '17. 137 Man Hours Spent on Each Issue *r!:~t~;·te:h! 0 ri~c!fthv·z~ Schenectady Gazette; W. T. Eldred \To write In a personal vein for The two men. converted the maga- a moment, I am glad and proud· ·zine 'into newspapej,.fo:rinat of four to be a Concordy alumnus. Prob-· columns and publi~ed thrice week- ably few staffs have made more ly. As Knight states In a letter to mistakes than we did, but the ac-· the Coiicordiensis, \Tire horrible cumulated learning value from ali task of getting out a paper every of those errors was important. I other day, along with such extra- look 'back to rny Concordy days curricular activities as passing col- both with appreciation for what. I lege courses, wound me up with a learned, and with affection for the permanent nervous breakdown, and paper and those with whom I have I don't think that Mandeville has worked. This regard comes down ever been the same m!).n since to the present and I know will con- either.\ ~ight is presentiy as- tinue into the future.\ sociate editor of the Saturday An average of 137 man. '33, editor of Ski News, Hanover, hours are spent on each C9n- . issue contains 396 column inches Work Increased Wednesday N. H. i and Granger Tripp '43, coi'diensis which Union men of reading matter, of which about editor of Radio Reports Inc., New P ick up· every Friday evening. 100 inches are advertisements pro- On Tuesday evening,. the ad York City. cured by the business staff. The makeup is completed by the b'!lsi- J. Green '03 is president of the of the school year in the fra- circulation staff has charge .of the . ness staff. The tempo of activity Schenectady Gazette. J. L. Hallen-' ternity houses, dormitories, mailing list, which sends the paper is stepped up Wednesday .afternoon,· beck '36 is business m!lnager of and the 1 ·· 1 ·brary. to our subscribers, as well as on- when staff members begin to bring LIFE M . . N y C · · in their assign. m.ents, and members aga.Zme m ew ork ity.· Editorial Stafi Works 100 Holll'S · campus distribution. f F. J, Clary '12 is general manager The vast majority of the work Work week for the staff mem-' 0 the S(lnior b!jard begin to proof . of the Bu.ffalo Courier Express,· is done by the editorial staff~ The bers and' board members starts the copy and a:hy galleys brought and there are numerous others in editor-in-chief is the big contributor 'Monday .noon, when plans for the .back .from the press. On week!> the newspaper business. Many are •t'h b t 25 h k d contents .of the issue are drawn u. p, ·when a six page issue Is published, · t · th s h t d G w1 a ou · ours per wee El\ . the Concordiensis office is a bee- repor ers on . e c enec a y a- pending on whether the issue is stories are assigned, and· the pre- 'hive of. activity on Wednesda,y' zette, Lawrence Pelletier '4(), a four or six pages. The managing · vious week's Issue is discussed. In .night. Oil such weeks, two pages former editor, is with the Schenec-. editor gives about 19 l:iours weekly, the eveni:ng; the business staff be- must be completed by Thursday tady Ur.i:ion-Star, as are also sev- w:hile tile sports editor devotes an gins its ad makeup, On Tuesday :morning in order that they may be. era! Union men. Former Concordy · a;verage· of 10 hours. afternoon, the first copy is taken f · th reporters. are now reporters on the ,Although about 100 of the -ma.n to the Gazette Press, which prints run ° f by e printer on that day. New ~ork Times, the Baltimore hours are those of the editonai the Concordielisis. This is, in- . Thursday is the peak day of ac- · Sun, tl1e Paris Post, the Tampa staff, the business and circulation cidentally, our bventy\tifth anni- tivity in the newspaper office in . (Fla.) Tribune, and :many other staffs are indispensable to the versary of association with the Washburn Hail!. The bulk of ·the ·papers. All told; Union men ·pub- paper;s, publication. A four page. Gazette .printers. (Continued on Page 8) lish .and edit over 20 publications . .. Evening Post. The following year the paper 'Prof. Frederick A. Kleinin, Con- was reduced to a semi-weekly, but cordiensis advisor, issued the fol- it enlarged into five .columns In lowing statement: ·1920. One of the biggest stories to \Happy birthday, Concordy. Your hit the Concordy he~J,dlines in those vigorous existence over three quar- years was the story of the fit•st ters of a century is a tribute to wireless broadcast of a musical those students who sacrifice leisure concert by Union's own radio club. hours and oftitnes a dean's list On its fiftieth anniversary In standing in order to meet the dead- 1 927 , the Concordiensis moved its line. Even the careful reader can- printing· headquarters to the Sche- not realize the amount of we>rk that goes into each edition. Each ·nectady Gazette, where it has re- number just has {() be good, for mained since. For the p1•evious nowhere does a poor performance thirty years, the Schenectady .Art show up as clearly or as perman- Press had done th.e :Printing. ently as on the printed page. First Sports l'age \Therefore again happy birthday, ,A !Six-col~;~mn paper was issued Conocrdy. My highest regards to. regularly for one year, 'but the the names on your masthead.\ Concordy reverted back to five Other Messages Inside <Continued on Page 3)

2 ornurnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and dlstrl· butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver· Using Reprooentative: Na- tlcmal Advertising Service. Inc., College Publishers Representatice, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the srhool year. Editorial ONice,Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- liootlon Office, The Ga.. zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Poet Office as Sec- ond Glass Mail Matter, subscription 1 Oc a copy: $3 year del!vered any- IVhor-e in the United States. SE:!I'JOR 110:.1. RD DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . ll!tlitor-in·Chlef JOHN J. CASSIDY JR. '53 .......................... ~fanaging Editor J.RWlN S. BARG '53 ................................... Sports Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Feature Editor MARTIN B. GORDON '54 ................................ Copy Editor ALFRED L. GOI,DBEIWER '54 ......................... Copy Editor ALAN S. FORMAN '53 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... Photography Editor GEORGE J. \YRLTBEI. '33 ............................ Bu~illt'\' :\lanager HORACE VAN VOAST '52 ....................... Circulatiou Manager JllNlOit 110.<\RD HERBERT L. Sl'lltA '51 ....................... Assistant Copy Editor ~LARTl:-.1 HAUSI.!:H '55 , ......................... A:o8i.,taut Copy Editor ALFRED II. Kl:-.IG0!\1 '53 ................... As,istant Feature Editor HERBERT L. HILLER '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Exchange Editor 110\\'A!Ul BHOIJY '52 ............................... Exchange Editor -RODI:JRT SILVER:\IA:S '53 ................ AtiA!staut Bu~ine•s :\lanager ICL'RTIS BATl•:3 '53 ................... ,\,,i,tant Clr<\ulation ~faua,g~r li.E 1'0 ItT E ItS Peter Adler, Marvin Burl•. HerLell Gu:stuu, Hicharu Heimann, Gary Katz Lewis Klein Eliot Lo.bhak, .llartin l'urtnoy, Arthur Itu~entehl, Stew;,rt Robinson, '·walter Salm, Alfretl <Jcott, Donald SimmonB, llavid Smith, Arthur Sto<·kman, Herbert Williams, !'au! tiilllet t. BGSINE88 STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Heck, Lawrellle Gr~enberg. CIRCULA'riON STAFF J. Lowell Davis, Joe Martin, llavill Browu, Jame~ Fitmaulice, !tit-hard Borst, Robert S eydel. After Seven.ty-five Years Today, both Union College and the Concordien.sis are celebrating birthdays. The colleg·e hails its 157th birthday at Founders Day while the ConC·Ol·diensis publishes this com- memorative issue as the opening of our 7nth anniversary year celebration. Both of these celebrations come in troublesome times. The role that colleges shall play in this era of possible im- pending disaste1· is a suhj eet of foremost significance for educators. Colleges must justify the foue years of grace they ask the armed forces for their students. The colleges must exert all their introspective powers to see what they can change within themselves to produce a nucleus of leader- ship which will preven't a recurrence of the present situation. At the same time, students must not dodge this issue. They must not let the professional educators do their think- ing for them on this question, perhaps the most crucial one ever to confront our civilization. This is where the two birthdays we note today comple- ment each other. While the college examines itself to plot its course in a new age, so the students must do likewise. The Concordiensis poses this question to itself: What must be the role of the college newspaper at this time? More specifically, what must be the Tole of a student newspaper at Union College? Shall Ctiticize Students Traditionally, college newspapers have been student champions. They have p1·esented student grievances to the college authorities and have attempted to exert the influence of the press to remedy the complaints. This was the record of the Concordiensis in its youth. But, we feel, like Union College and the world around us, the Concordiensis has grown up. Such a technique of college journalism is an easy way to gain popularity and prestige among the student body. Once the student operated and student supported publication begins to spotlight student shortcomings, it en- dangers its popularity and prestige. Yet that is more cour- ageous, honest and constructive journalism. In its more recent years, that has been the story of the Concordiensis. We vow to continue that policy. Furthermore, we vow to make that plank the foundation of our platform. The ills of our generation are unusual, according to sur- veys made by Time l\Iagazine and the New York Times. Youth, the generator of ideas and the stronghold of liberal- ism, youth, the challenger of the old and the accepted, is strangely quiet and conservative today. Both of the above named surveys found fear to be the prime cause of this condition. This fear has been inspired by such shameful exhibitions as the McCarthy accusations and by increased reliance on military methods of obtaining peace. It is a fear of public and official vilification which might result in loss of job opportunities and graduate school acceptance. It is a fear which paralyzes us and prevents free and open discussion of the vital and controversial problems before us and which robs us of our invaluable flexibility. We can hardly condemn conservatism when' it springs ft·om conviction, but it is perhaps a malady when its source is fear. The conservatism of our time which we wish to. destroy is one that saps us of our basic freedoms and con- Verts our democracy into a state of orthodox beliefs, con- trolled by demagogues and military men. In our society with its high degree of literacy. sacrifice of the democratic essentials and of free speech and thought for'\Orthodoxy and intolerance would presumably be combatted bitterly, for these are the things that malte us strong. One would ex- pect this to be particularly true among college men. And yet fear and orthodoxy have made dangerous inroads to- wards stifling our generation. We feel democracy is worth fighting and sacrificino- for. We despise its counterpart as symbolized b:v totam';,rian Communism and Fascism. As long as the United States maintains the essential meaning of demoeracy, she too is worth fighting a~d sacrificing for. We don't want to fight for a system whiCh, out of fear, suppresses ideas and rele~ gates to second class citizenship people who belong to o1·- ganizations some Congressional committee considers su~~­ versive. At that point we cease fighting for anything and we merely fight against something. We then live in a moral and inteltlectual vacuum. Need Faith in Democracy Of course, this country has not degenerated i.nto that condition yet, but that is the dangerous trend of our times. We are losing sight of our ideals both at home and aoroad. How can we, with all due respect to democracy, insist that a foreign natioR conform to our economic system? How can we insist upon. enforci:ng our value judgements ·upOH foreign peoples as the only true ones? How can we laud a man as having doRe a great service to America for smearing another man's name with unsupported charges ranted from behind a wall of immunity? When we stop listening to these fear-ridden people and ,once again veassert our faith in each other by encouraging the healthy give and take of conflicting ideas and when we reenforce democracy both at home and abroad, we will be back on our path of original direction. We will not really be back to anything, but we· will have progressed over a great chaHenge to our system. The coHege student fits into this as the potential leader in society. Having had time to reflect and study the prob- lems· of his age, the college student has the responsibHity .of injecting life into the democratic system. Sensitive to these problems, he should be awa1·e of what's happening and then assert himself. He should partake in the struggle against the destruction of our liberties, both· home and abroad. This takes action-not silence and conformity. This struggle is fought everywhere in society. ln the education system, our democracy is referred tG as academic freedom. We must guard against its destruction. For- tunately, we can say that academic freedom has fared well at Union College. Other collegJ3s have undergone varying degrees of witch hunts-student newspapers have been censored for utterances less innocuous that this editorial teachers have been made to sign degrading loyalty oaths- but we can boast that there has been none of that on this campus. Must Fight Apathy The malady on this campus has been the overbearing silence of the student body. •\'We feel that the principle role of the Concordiensis today is the destruction of that apathy. We see this indifference affecting world and national prob- lems as well as campus problems. College students the New York Times reports, have, from fear,-turned away'from problems outside of their immediate concern to .strictly campus questions. Union students have shied away from all problems. The Union College newspaper feels it should make na- tional problems part of our daily thinking process. We wish to promote campus activity as long as it simulates realistic situations and prepares us to take part as active American and world citizen~. This is the role of a college newspaper everywhere. It 1s the especittl role of the Union College newspaper. We have tried through symposiums, editorials columns and ?ews stories to conduct this fight. It gener~lly mean~ tummg outward to the larger problems of society and away from ca1!lpus problems. We hav.e sensed a slight degree of success 1~ this battle.. But ~m.til we feel that the portion of the S1len~ Generation res1dmg on this campus realizes the d~struchve:r:ess of the fear which restrains our minds and bmds our hps, we shall be relentless. This is our way of celebrating our Anniversary Year. -D. E. S. Letter: to the Editor Dear Editor: I have an opportunity for re- miniscence which is not available to most former Concordy editors, for though I have been out from behind the editor's desk in Wash· burn Hall for nearly five months, I'm still an 8th termer, still close to the paper and still vitally inter- ested in Its progress. There are certain advantages to being able to reflect upon those tension-filled weel•s and months while you were running a college paper. The first thing you find is that, when you quit, you can take on a lot of other things to fill the gaps that appear in your day- gaps that were filled with the task of meetin~< deadlines and drum- ming up stories. After serving as editor for almost a year, you lose track of just how mu~h time the job takes, and when the burden is off your shoulders you suddenly find yourself with hours you never knew existed-hours which a more normally-paced' individual would have filled with routine things. But what is it that you remem- bet• most out of the hours spent working in the strewn office, ot' running down to the press to watch progress, or seeking out lax staff members to check on assign- ments? It is the musical noise of the typewriters banging out the last-minute news on Thursday night-news which should have been written by Wednesday's dead- line? Is it the fun of trying to pump news sources for information that might lead to a big story? Is it the often hilarious job of finding headlines that fit in the wee hours of the morning? Is it the mascu- line office-conversation and won- dering if you can think of any new curse word's? Is it the classes you cut every Friday morning to go to the press after a night with no sleep? Is it the thrill of grabbing the first copy off the press and s~anning the finished product for the inevitable mistakes. Is it the look on the faces of the people when they read \your\ paper? Is it the satisfaction of knowing something nobody else knows-of being \on the inside\-and scoop- ing the campus with a news breal•? Is it the rare compliments which make the whole thing seem worth- while? Well, it's all of these and none of these. During those long months as editor you don't think too much about it. You haven't time, and you wouldn't even if you ?id. But in looking back, maybe tt comes to you. Maybe what you remember wost is the realization of your responsibility-not to your- Sf'if or the campus or any sf\ld!;mt or any professor-but your re- sponsibility to the Concordy. You rE>alize that you were all wrong those times when you got to feel that it was \your\ paper-that you were the Concordy. You begin to see that you're only a tiny part of something so much bigger-a link in a chain which cannot be broken. And you realize your responsibility to that chain-you're only a link but each one is vitally important. Sometimes, durin:; those late nights of work when you were all by yourself in the office, you'd feel pretty desolate. You'd wonder why you were doing it. Maybe you'd even feel like forgetting about an issue-taking the easy way out. Sure, you knew you were performing. a service-a very im· portant service-but sometimes you ~ondered if it was appreciated, if tt would be missed much if it wasn't performed. But now maybe you come to the realization of what was driving you on. Now you know why you worked even though the job seemed thankless. You owed it to the chain. Your link had to be strong. The chain has 75 links in it now, most of them good, strong links. Now that your link is completed, you can sit back and watch the chain grow longer and longer. May it grow forever! Sincerely, .. tTAY N. COHN '52 , FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 22. l95Z Letter From Our Files In searching for the most inter- ,esting letter ever to appear in The Concordlensis, the Editors found this piece, e:ll:;plaining the origin of the idol in the April 23, 191tt issue. We herewith reprint the letter that ',describes the· mystery surrounding the idol. We nominate it as cer- tainly one of the best letters ever to appear on our pages. To the Librarian, Union College, De Witt Clinton, Esq., Schenectady, N. Y. Dear Sir: I duly received your request for some account of \the idol\. I never before heard that Dr. Nevius had been accredited with presenting it to the G:ollege. I knew I chiseled my name on its sid\e but I have also heard that some poor Freshman has to apply a fresh coat of paint every year- and my informant assured me tha:t It must be well nigh an inch thick, by this time. But the scrub- bing you describe has removed some forty or fifty coats of .paint showing it looking as when it migrated from these shores. These stone images of lions with those of horses, priests, sheep and ele- phants are found in rows on each side of a path or road leading up to a distinguished tomb. Two of these lions, like the one you have, \the idol,'' are often seen on each side of the entrance to a Ya Men, a government public office. They are supposed to ward off evil spirits or influences or to strike terror into the hearts of the ac- cused who are being taken there for their trial or as some say they are merely ornamental. I think I suggested the one I sent should be placed on a grassy .plot, in the middle of the road-perhaps a rod or more from the door. I was rather disgusted when l visited Union a score of years later and saw it in the field behind the College! But it has found a place in the affections of the students, I n€ver expected, having become their local deity. It is answering a purpose I never dreamed of, though I must not be held responsible if the sons of old Union turn \idolators\ and become heathens. This would be very sad as I am giving my life teaching heathens how to become Christians. I was much gratified to see it used as a vignette on the cover of the \Monthly.\ This particular one was found in a\n excavation for fortification about the year 1861 or 2, I think. It had probably been buried many hundred years. It was dug up in making a ditch. outside of the em- bankment just opposite our Board- ing School ,outside the city walls of Shanghai, on the south side of the city. I have had very pleasant mem- ories of the time I spent at Union and of the visit I made there after twelve ~ears in China. Wishing my Alma Mater great success and every blessing, Sincerely yours, J. M. W. FARNHAM '56 P.S.-I noticed you ask for in- formation as to how I obtained the \idol\ and about shipping it. Those who dug it up allowed me to have it and I erected it before the front of our school. Subse- quently when I thought I would send it to my Alma Mater and was putting it on a boat, a wealthy fam:Uy in the neighborhood came forward and claimed it as having been owned by their ance\stors. I was allowed to take it away by paying $20, a squeese perhaps. I then sent it on board a tea ship bound for New York, which really needed it for ballast. Whether \Union\ paid freight and how it was transpor,ted from New York to Schenectady I do' :not know. It was wen I cut on its side my name and '56 or Dr. Nevius would have had the credit of sending it. How this ever came about I can~ not imagine. I also sent \a. collec- tion of coin to Union ,of no great numismatic value I . think. Yours again, J. M. W. F. --~··a--- An Old Editorial Jan. 24, 1936. Murder, rape, and burglary can sometimes be for- given. But there are some crimes which by their very pettiness and stupidity can never be justified or condoned. Stealing candy from children is such an offense, and mutilating defenseless library books is another. The moron who tears pictures from boo·ks in the library, commits a crime not 1!-gainst an individual, but against society. He destroys the usefulness of the book for pur- poses which cannot be other tpan selfish. He desecrates the only sacred thing left in this age of dis- belief: a book. Books are the highest achievement of the human mind. Libraries are sanctuaries of civilization, and the library vandal violates this ,sanctuary, Nothing can be said in defense of such an act. It is not a crime passionel done in the heat of emo- tion. It is sly, furtive, shameless. Ignorance cannot be given as an excuse for depredations committed in a college. library used by col- lege students. A modicum of in- telligence and the ability to read are sufficient guarantees that one knows better than to tear up li- bra;ry books and magazines. The exasperaing thing about such vandalism is that practically nothing can be done to stop it. The damage is seldom detected until some time after it has been done. The offenders go scot free with only their feeble consciences to, harry them. We can only hope that Higher Powers have provided a separate hell for them. • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • l:ngraving, too! ~ .. Jay Jewlery C:o. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Mr. and Mrs. George Ferro, Proprietors I I 15 Ba,rett St. PRIVATE ROOM FOR PARTIES Specializing in ltallan-Ainerican Food PHONE 6-9554, Everything in Music Pianos - Organs Television-Radio Combinations Records - Sheet Music - Phonographs ROBERTS PIANO COMPANY 203 STATE STREET Ph()ne ~2493 Open Thursday Until 9 P, M. .. FRIDAY. F Jo -Or Unio: youngB;y actor!\ B in the fa isolation effects o: Pub I' His life. affair of at elegant let res:pondent friendship and bitter Money., or little of i first stude peared ea1 \On S1 wrote yo1 ornate, st issue a VI to Jbe ca· persons f mote a p: requested this subs not impll which he form; bul no exerti his part spirited 1 polite lit• The sp inclusive ment wa ''The ma -vv·as '~ex Howard \lubcubrl contribut .reprints translati• and not poems ol .I:' as time kept up he fors' tyranny more ro1 ard Pay life of . actor. T: us, how its tam• was ou1 lication, dergrad country, claim o Fl Three -fiowere1 of poen: ~ materia of 'l'he not be€ plete e1 paper, and di€ volume dergrac poweri1 import! contem faded llnemm ed a wells c In 1 Cabine person thOUgl: colleg€ June 1824, Volu Studer talned tales 1 days c taire\ flectio eathly soul, 1 when ing il the b of df collec brigh· whict of tl fined. Stude Iy sei rate I one, Fr< 1834, oltio1 \The :Magi turo1 of I smel from the hS.d of tl day. depl ArnE PrQI

l I .. 1 r 1 f I l j j e e .\1 J. e :l FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, l952 John Howard Payne Edited Pranks and Campaigns Featured Union in 1877 Original· Student Life at Union College was a great dea.l more serene in 1877, when the Concordiensis was founded, Hun it is today. Politics in the election of class officers, cut-tllrO'at fraternity <r-----------~-------------. rushing, pranks in and out of classrooms, general con- Publication By l'rof. Codman Hislop Union's first undergraduate ed-itor was an olive skinned young Byron, a society beau, and whisper it softly, a \play actor!\ He hadn't wanted to come to \Dr. Nett's Seminary,\ in the fall of 1806, put his guardian thought Schenectady's isolation might cure him Of the \increasing and desolate effects of democracy.\ His name was John Howard Payne. Union's First Editor . geniality between faculty and students characterized campus life at the time. ~ Hot ()rumpus Elections Mr. Dow Beekman '84, described· H • t f student life in an article in the : IS :Qf'Y' 0 Concordy in November 5, 1937, Published The l'astime 0----~--~----- . parts of which we reprint below. c d \In the period around 1877 Httle ·. oneor· y effort was made to acquaint in-. His life. here was a confused affair of studies under Tutor Allen, AH, however, was not beer and elegant letters to a legion of cor-. 'skitties for the Parthenon Society, respondents, awkward gestures of the student organization which friendship toward his classmates, kept the literary life flourishing at and bitter .complaining over money.' Union, .Jonathon Pearson tells us Money., or the hope ·Of breeding a • on September 18, 1833, that \thro' little of it, .gave rise to Union's envy and hate some malcontents tJ,rst student .publication, which ap-: have set about setting up another peared early in 1807. <:paper) an\'! for some days this \On suitable encouragement,\: has been the only talk . . . each wrote young Payne in his most. party strives to get the mastery ornate style, \it is proposed to. and gain most friends.\ The next issue a Weekly Paper in this city day he wrote, \A meeting of the to :be called The Pastime. Such whole college was ):leld in chapel persons as are disposed to pro- and a committee of 12 chosen to mote a project of this nature are. conduct the new paper which is requested to affix their names to to come out under the name of this subscription. The editor will 'The Censor monthly for the price not impllcate himself in promises of one dollar. Great excitement which he may not be able to per-. exists and I know not to what the form; but he pledges himself that: parties may come no exertions shall be wanting on his part to render The Pastime a· spirited auxiliary to the cause of polite literature.\ 'l'he spirit embodied in the all- inclusive sweep of that last state- ment was the spirit of the pape1·. ''The matter, original or selected;'' was \exclusively literary.\ John Howard dunned his classmates for \lubcubrations\ as he called all contributions; they were usually reprints of poems and. ·essays, translations trom foreign worKs, and not infrequently, grandiose poems of his own. Apparently 'l'l:l,e .r>astime made money, for its editor kept up his work until 180B when he torswore Union and all the tyranny of his guardians fOl' the more romantic, and, for John How- ard Payne, the far .more lucrative life of America's leading juvenile actor. The Pastime is impo1·tant to us 1 however, not only because of its iamous editor, but because it was our first Union College pub~ lication, probably the second un- dergraduate paper printed in this country, if we allow Dartmouth's claim of priority. Floria.d Withered Away Three years later the Floriad -flowered, with the same bouquets of poems and essays and reprinted material which had filled the :pages of The Pastime. :Although we have not been able to examine a com- plete edition of this second Union paper, we know that it withered and died with number fourteen of volume one. The ability of the un- dergraduate to stomach the over- powering odor of r~manticism and Imported culture is wonderful to contemplate :as one turns these faded pages. Elegance and Re- llnement, well capitalized, absorb- ed a vigorous life from the ink 'vells of these forgotten editors. In 1823 came the Miscellaneous Cabinet, probably published. by persons close to the college, al- though apparently not an official college paper. It appeared from June 12, 1823 until January 3, 1824, twenty-six numbers in all. Volume one, number one of The Student Album, June 15, 1827, con- tained one of the typically light tales so dear to the reader of those days of ·gothic literature. ''Le Soli· taire\ begins with this happy re- flection: \There is a calm un- eathly feeling that permeates the soul, at the stH! houi: of midnight, when universal nature is slumber- Battle of Papers Oh, for the days when Union could get excited about the state of letters! The \:parties\ seem to have come to little, The Censor came out in November, 1833, and ran for six issues until May, 1834, a smaller magazine than The Par- thenon, but cast in very. much the same mold, The Wizard of 1838 was the first of these waspish, two to four page affairs, which appeared in pro- fusion during the next decade. Frat!'lrnity life bad finally estab· lished itself. The rivalries and jealousies had grown bitter, the neutrals either felt themselves superior to all the hubbub, or were furiously upset at being passed by. Student dissatisfaction with the faculty finally became vocal, some- times rising to a scream of vitu- peration. The library was demol· ished along with many of the faculty, in a tedious satire called \Discord at Union.\ The editors, of course were unanimous, and· their sheet passed into oblivion after its first issue. Such was the fate of The Frying Pan for Poor Sinners which came out the following year. Its editor, Sir Christopher Porcupine, how- ever, devoted his quills to pricking his student contemporaries, and in deflating the egoes of the new fraternities. In 1840 the Insinuator appeared, another anonymous paper, devoted this time to poking .fun at Profes- sor Alonzo Potter, who, the editors \insinuated\ was waiting around for old \Methuselah\ to die so that he could become president of the college. 1840 also gave us the Spy Glass, apparently edited by a group of neutrals bent on blasting the five fraternities which they seemed to think represented all that was foul in undergraduate life. The graveyard of these fraternities is pictured as it was to appear in 1900; the Sigma Phi Society has written on its headstone: \And so you see, for lack of gumption, I died of quick consumption.\ Kappa Alpha's monument car- ried this sentiment: \ •.. This marble stone is raised to show That Kappa Alpha now sleeps below.\ Hnocks Nott ing in the arms of repose; when The Crucible appeared in Janu- the busy and the bustling scenes ary, 1841, published by the \De- of day aTe over; and the mind, liberative Club.\ Its editor satirized colleated within itse1f, feels the Dr. Nott for his many trips away bright glow of intellectual joy, from campus and for his preach- which is known only to the mind ing \Morality and continence.\ Its of the sentimental and the re- final blast was to thre~ten horrible fined.\ Possibly the readers of The and complete revelations of ihe Student Album were not sufficient- doings of the secret societies un- . ly sentimental and refined; at any less they disbanded immediately. rate the paper expired with volume· rt was 'I'he Crucible which dis- one, number one. banded. The l'ru:thenon Flourishes S. M. Day, poet fi-nd undergradu- John Howard Payne came to life again, although its re- juvination seems hardly to have been worth while, for it died im- mediately. Perhaps its edit.or's worry over his \juvenescent finge1;1\ had something to do with its sud- den demise; at any rate, his at- tempt to give the readers much the same sort of thing that had ap- peared in .his magazine's predeces- sor of the same name falled mis- erably, Even \The Mermaid's Song'' reappeared, to fall, evident- ly, on deaf ·ears. Enter Concordia here, also, are the heavy essays and scented poetry of the earlier, \seri- ous\ magazines, The Concordia expired with its third number, and a long editorial on college. cynicism. The Union College Magazine, published once each term, from 1860 to 1875, is a really ambitious affair. The Philomathean Society, and Alphic and Delphian societies joined forces to make it possible. Its make-up was comparable to the best magazines of the day. Here · ·are to be found excellent engrav- ings of the faculty and alumni, · carefully prepared • biographies of Although another of the ephe- Union's great men, a column called meral satiric sheets appeared in \collegiana\ which retailed campus 1859 <The Meerschaum), the Con- gossip in vet·y much the modern cordia, published by the Philoma-. manner, and a supporting section thean Society, appears to be the of advertising. It is much more next serious attempt at Union jour- of a college magazine in the sense nalism. Here, apparently, are the that it published items of Union first advertisem·ents , . . \Student interest, stories, poems, by Union Board with Mrs, White, Corner of men, than any of its predecessors. Union and Park, $2.00 per week.\ Here we find the first signs of The local tailors suggest. \stocks local interest which have vitalized collars, bosoms, cassimers, vesting, all of the succeeding campus pub- Napolean ties, and halfhose.\ But lications which survived. Concordy Born During E4> N. Potter's Presidency Eliphalet Nett Potter, '61,<®----------- had been president of Union College only four years when the Concordiensis was found- ed. :KnoWill as Organizer Called to the presidency 'in 1873 to succeed Charles A. Aiken, Presi- dent Potter was renowned for his organizational ability and for his Nott name rather than for his qualifications as an educator. He had compiled an excellent record for financial management. He was born orl the college grounds on September 20, 1836, son of Professor .Alonzo Potter '18, and Sarah Maria Nott, the daugh- ter of Eliphalet Nott. He attended Union while his grandfather was still president and graduated in 1861. Potter spent a year at Berk- ley Divinity School, Middletown, Conn., and was ordained deacon by his father in 1862. • Brought About University Ftom November, 1832, until July, ate editor, sponsored Union's next 1834, Union supported a really am- publication, The Scroll. It had a 1Jltious st1,1dent publication. True, short life, running from Octol:ler to \The Parthenon and Academician's May, 1849-1850. Editor Day claimed :Magazine\ ·still refl.ected the tor- that he was going to issue a n.on- . partisan paper to sell for $.03, a As president, Potter raised. large turous and ghoul-haunted regwn hi h · k d P aper which would reflect the best sums w c were qmc Iy use · for Eliphalet Nott l'otter o:r the horror story, and still b 'ld' H 'It th t o d srnell.ed of the odors which rose of undergraduate· life. Here one u1 mg. · e bUl e presen I may read the reports of the col\ Gym and Washburn Hall. The li- School, Dudley Observatory, and from iambic sweetness distilled by b b 'It d · p tte ' lege's House and Senate, examine rary was m urmg o · r s Albany Pharmacy School. A fight the contemporary poets, but it d · · t t' · th d · a \catalog·ue of students,\ and read a miDIS ra !On as was e a m1n· between faculty, alumni, and ad- h!l.d an imposing make-up worthy · t t· b \ld' the reports of the. active college IS ra 10n Ul mg. min.istration sent the college into of the best best magazines of the day. In the first number the eidtors \Temperance Society,\ of which He was the first chancellor of the throes of a decline in 1884 and deplored \The Present State of Editor Day seems to have been an Union University after bringing was the big break between Union American Literature ap.d our own active member. about the combination of Albany and President Potter. He_ resigned Pros,pects.'' In March, 1851, The Parthenon Medical College, A1bany Law in 1897. i coming freshmen with each other as is being done today, The first (Continued. from Page l) incentive for students to become' columns in 1928-29. A notable in- acquainted with each ·other was novation was thE formation of a • the election of class officers. 'I' hen· sports ·page. Athletic news before an inventory had to be made of this time was prominent in every the qualifications and personality issue, taking up more ·space than of the members of the class and any other pllase of college activity. the candidates for the various of- The siX col unn paper came back ficers naturally were active in se- to stay in September, 1933. curing friends to vote for them. Each fraternity was anxious to In Februat\y 1942, the Con· have its pledges elected and com- cordiensis published a special sixty- binations between different fra- fifth anniversary- issue, under the ternities were arranged, although editorship of A.. V. Feigenbaum the neutrals held the balance of '42. The college •celebrated· Con- power. cordiensis Day with a banquet and a special chapel Jll'ogram. The Con- \Several years before 1880 an or- cordiensis Club, consisting of ganization termed the 'Union Col- Senior Board nembers, past and· lege Senate', composed of seniors, present, was formed. .A musical existed and in 1881 it was revived. satire, entitled ••Let the Grecians Under the plan, the Senate was Scream\ presented by the Con- presided over by a m~mber of the cordy staff, hlgblighted tlle cele- faculty and Seniors were desig- bration, It was the last big fan- nated for the various state . .A com- fare of the Concordiensjs until mittee of seniors acted as a House after the war. of Representatives to originate bills and send them to the Senate where Union College became a training they were considered in a parli· center for a Navy V-12 unit during mentary way. Bills concem.ed cur- the war and the college and Con- rent questions and proceedings cordy schedule underwent great were carried on under the rules of changes. In May, 1943, the news- the United States Senate, paper was I:\ed.uced to a weekly. In 1945, after the war was over, Hazing Society all Union Celebrated the college's \All of the fraternities had· 15 0th anniversa.ry. and headquarters but the major part of the social life con- sisted of meetings in the rooms of popular students. .Around 1882 a fraternity named \Theta Nu Epsi- lon\ formed a chapter a.t Union was then recognized as a hazing society. It had no head- quarters and its chief function consisted of holding a boisterous dinner in the fall term after initia- tion.\ ConcoTdiensis Means We have oft been questioned about tile meaning of tb.e w,()rd •'Concordiensis.\ To settle the question we have referred it to the best authority on campus, Prof. Hanison C. Coffin. Prof. Coffin informs us that Concordiensis is the Latin term fOl' \bel!mgin to union.\ Con,. cordia is the Latin word for union and the following suffix means belonging or pe:!•ta.ining- to. Hence, belonging to .union, LUIGI'S \ RESTAURANT Specializing In Italian-American Food 1125 BARRETI ST. Schen. 6-9744 Enioy our Siu:ling Steaks and Chops Numet,ous and varied editorial ·campaigns h.ave spotted the news- paper's history-. From a vigorous campaign against student cliques in 1892 to Ute anti-compulsory chapel drives in more reeent years, the Concordiensis has always sought to maintain the high stand- ards of colleg-e journalism which have been laid down through the years. Tile Nodel and the Marria~e Broker Jeanne Cruno Shelley Winters-Betty Gary Merrill also Harem Girl .&roucno Mar~ Frank Sinatra Jane Rus>ell also Ll:mgborn NOW ENTERIN'G OUR 3rd GENERATION • . of serving Union vrith ~ine Diamonds, Jewelry, Watch·es and Silver We extend our sincer.e Best Wishes to the Concordiensis, <>n its 75th Anniversary ~~ f~~~l\\ . {1\\\\\\].\\~Sl~~ \SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENEitATIONS\

4 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22. :1952 Former C d . . oncor Ien;sts Editors Recollect We have asked all former Concordiensis editors to write a few of their recollections of their days at Union College 1908 Of Union College in 1907-'08, a· later-day Shakespeare might well have written Senior Board, 1915 1916 office se<veral blocks above the ai·- mory. I used to .go there morn- ings to read proof and aiternoo!j·s to. 'Comeau's to put the paper to bed. I ~>at up late or sometimes rose early to write editori!l1S and news stories. I lear·ned to· sit in front of a .typewriter ·,and stare until something .finally appeared on the paper-a philippic, a lampoon or a paslminade. This training, to- gether with that t received by prac- tical experience at Comeau's was invaluable after .graduation whel) I had to ea,rn my salt in newspaper This other Eden, demi-paradise ... and on the Concordy in order This happy breed of men, this· to reconstruct a more per-. little word ... This blessed plot, this earth, this sonal history of the news- realm, this Union. paper. We reprint our re- In those days, by-gone by nearly. plies. half a century, our college (or so· 1901 Fifty years ago Union College was a much smaller and poorer in- stitution than today. There were but a few hundred students and the college was on the verge of financial disaster. Union's most be- loved alumnus was elected treas- urer at about the time of our graduation. The Concordiensis at that time covered not only college activities, but also attempted to gatht.>r and publish the alunfni news now found in Union Alumnus. The subscribers consisted of both students and alumni. However, the total aub- scription list was small and the returns from advertising were trifling. So the staff worked for glory and the business manager, if he made a profit, probably used it up in an evening at the old Hotel Edison bar. it seems to us now) was as dis- Hnct a separate dominion as was medieval England. It was set, island-like, in a sea of houses and factories ·known as Down Town. Its citizens lived largely unto them- selves, venturing forth, however, to carry culture to the rude world outside, whenever a desire for re- laxation, refreshment or mischief moved them. To look again upon that pleasant period let us open up the shutters of the past, with the aid of the back files of the Concordiensis. The numbers that engage our particular attention are those dated f1·om April 20, 1907 to April 14, 1908, the period of the editorship of the Class of 1908. As I recaJll it, my period as editm'· of the ''Concordy\ was the ·last yeat· ·the .publication appeared· in magazine form. I know I was. anxious to switch over to nevvs-: ·paper form l)ut th!l contract ·had alrea(ly been arranged. My friend, the Jute \Gummy\ Glenn was. the ·business manager an,d he always seemed to be abl!'l to get enough. ads to meet expenses even tho we put out son1e extra fancy issues· especially when our basketball· team was clean·ing up aU con-· tenders. I recall one of my most embar- rassing rr.oll!ents 1n connection 1vith the Conco~dy. We were of-· rered a Tot of cuts and other rna~ work. · FREDERICK G, BASCOM, '18 1925 terlal llY some civic organizatiOn. Thank you for your invitatidn.to ,boosting for the Mohawk Rf.ver: comment on the seventy-fifth an- oi'!dge ·or as it was then termed niversary of The Concordiensis. . ··.n:e Great Western Gateway.\ 1t That the newspaper has continued seem.ed like .a very worthy .cause for so many years would indicate to me so I fell for it and used all that it has an important function thcit· material and got .out quite on the campus. \ an issue. I was .reeling .pretty When I was editor, there were .a happy over ·it until Prexy Rich-· few changes from the ,preceding mond in chapel comrner:ted that ,years. We tried to collect the news, he thought the college paper sho\lld reduce it to readable English, and ;onfine Itself to ·campus issues. He to print it without too many ,mis- was ve.ry nice .about it, but I felt prints. The twice-a-week dealines ·lil;;e crawling. Jnto a: pin hole and were met with reasonable prompt- pulHng .it in after me. ' ness, largely because I was for- l might be able to .recall a .few tunate in having a very able staff oth<;r things but you w1ll probably of assistant editors and reporters. haye more than you can usc any- The physical facilities of the how. Here's wishing you luck .and editor's office ·Consisted of ·one old perhaps you will feel disposed to Oliver typewriter and a couple of :lend me a copy. . rolls of newsprint. In previous 'years therl) had, been a Concordien- Very cordially yours, sis office across the hall from the IUCIIARD E. TAYLOR '16 Old Chapel, but that had been 1917 taken away by the powers-that- were, and the editorial office was wherever the Oliver typewriter happened to be. Somehow, by dint of many phone Regarding your query about re- calls, typing up stories at ()dd Although there was a staff when I was editor of the \Concordy\, the truth is that the editor was also the main reporter and proof l'eader. Perhaps this is still true. The only member of the staff who showed an interest was John Guthrie of the class of 1902. There was some committee in charge of the appointment of my successor, but 1 disregarded it and appointed Guthrie. Although I have never seen him since, I have followed his distinguished career in the United States Forestry Service with a great deal of pleasure. The Concordy in those days was produced under a modified form of the hit-or-miss system. Whatever the precedent circumstances might have been, the night before pub- lication was always sp<>ilt in pre- paring page after page of copy under the cold eyes of some com- posing room foreman who wanted more type to fill up his empty forms. Engaged in this enterprise you would find the reluctant editor himself and one ot· two even more reluctant assistants who had been cajoled or coerced into service. It was in the crucibles of such fiery circumstances that the immortal lines which are about to be laid before you were born. It is to be regretted that nothing more than mere samplings may here be re- produced, because of the obvious space limitations. To aid the read- er who might otherwise become confused, we have taken the liberty of presenting the material in num- bered, topical headings. A pictm·e talu•n of the Senior Board membel'S in 1915, W'hi~ll was presented to the cnnent staff by H. J. Delchamps, ~>ditor at that time. Note the \.<\thle<tic Editor\ was W. C. Bake1·, present;ly Union Colle-ge chairma.n <>f tlte .Soard of Trustees. collections .of my .duties as Con- hours, and rushing the copy down cordiensis editor:, the chief thing to the press, the .paper was put to- . which sticks out in memory is that gether. we changed format starting my senior year as editor. Before that, Lewis W. Mauger, '25, at times as you undoubtedly know, Con- simplified the problems connected cordy was a weeldy publication in with editing the paper by his sue- magazine form, half literary and. cessfuJ. sales of advertising space. half news. It was .changed then I believe his record in that re- into the present newspaper form spect was a new high for the The news in our paper was much as today, except that activities may have been much different. There were no automobiles on the cam- pus, and few students had ever ridden in one. Dances were most often held at Hans Yates' boat house on the river, where boats with many cushions could be rented for a row with one's sweet- heart up Frog Alley-now spanned by the highway bridge to Scotia. Union had a great fooball eleven in the fall of 1900. This made good news, and the plunges of Pat Carver, perhaps Union's greatest fullback, made sensational news at the time. The quarterback on that team was none other than Le Roy \Jeff\ Weed, well known today on the campus as long time Trustee and a loyal alumnus in every sense of the word. Students who see him now should not be sur- prised to learn that he was excep- tionally sharp on the hurdles and pole vault fifty years ago. (1) Thei Campus - \i.e., This ject ... There must be a feeling demi-paradise): \By appointing a that perhaps our duty to Alma committee to investigate the condi- Mater doesn't end with our shouts tion of the college grounds and to of approbation when a good play prescribe reforms where necessary, Is made at games; that if -we •. per- the college trustees have given .an sonally, got into action . . . we impetus that will help old Union a might place old Union on the long stride forward on the road of pedestal of prominence that qnce progress. True, our campus has was hers. You remember those never been in execrable shape, but days when we played Syracuse off there has been room for a few their feet in football with a scor-e improvements ... \ At a later date of 75-0 ... The Old Spirit is here. we read: \WHOSE IS THE It's only asleep. Be an alarm clock CAMPUS, The annual invasion of and help wake it up.\ Su15seqaently the army of the town's youngsters the Concordy noted: \The nevv yell has arrived. At practically every proposed at the campus meeting is moment of the day, the college a good one. Learn it. Here it .is: grounds are over-run with a horde Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Union, Union, of young terrorists • · · Can we Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Union, Union, not have some semblance of pro- Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Union, teet ion?\ Still later, when a lot was sold from the Nott Street (6) Athletics: Unquestionably side of the campus, the Concordy amateur. (a) Baseball: \Last Sat- believed that \the spirit of Com- urday Union played her first base- rnercialism is not satiated. It has ball game of the season ag-ainst demanded a portion of the Cam- West Point on the ·latter's dia- pus; and ground is being sold rnond. Everything conspired to The most sensational news of right nex-t to the College Garden. make the game rather a. disap- the year 1900-1901 was the tearing Now the proposition of turning pointment to all concerned ... down and burning on two occasions the pasture into a City Playground The score at the end was 5-0 in of the billboard erected on the has arisen ... We are constricted theil• favor. There is every reason corner of Union Street and Nott enough, We want our Campus kept to suppose that with a few weeks Terrace diagonally across from as it is ... Let us raise the battle- of good steady practice our Var- the Blue Gate. That is a long cry against Commercialism-'OUR sity team will .be one to make a story and deserves special treat- CAMPUS INTACT!'\ record this year for the Gamet ment. ( 2 ) Campus Mores: \To the against her adversaries.\ (b) Foot- Another interesting story was the Freshmen: You have been we!- ball: \Hamilton goes on record arrest and conviction ($3 apiece) corned into Old Union ... and have of having achieved another victor'Y over Union's g:ri!:liron warriors,. and of about twelve members of the had the opportunity to become ac~ to the outside world last Satur- class of 1901 for starting a large quainted . . . This year's sermon bonfire at midnight in front of to you will be brief: 1-Don't try day's game spells nothing. but 'de- the old City Hall and Police Head- to show either the faculty or the feat' for Old Union. Shall we say for an instant t)lat sueh is the quarters on Jay Street. This story upperclassmen how to manage af- case with the undergraduate b<>dy? never appeared in the Concordien- fairs or you'll be sorry. 2-Get out ... True, by a technicality of the sis but it did appear in the Sche- for every college activity for which nectady Gazette. Carl Hammer, '99, you have a bent, or no one will game, the Buff and Blue are ac- credited with the victory. But I think, wrote it up and stated in ever know you're here.\ every one of the Garnet supJlOl:ters the article that the names given <3) Pub I i city: \The Athletic, ... who saw that thrilling plunge by the culprits were evidently Board has appointed Prof. Opdyke of our splendid team to within a fictitious, except one-\Frederick to devise some scheme to give ac- Robertson Jones\. Now there was counts of athletic contests more fraction of victory, knew that the true spirit of Old Union is still a a person bearing this name and prominence in newspapers gener- living, vital thing in our midst ... he was an instructor at the Col- ally. Arrangements were made by Any occasion that could arouse the lege and his resentment was \won\ which news has since been sup- derful to behold\. We even learned plied to the Associated Press and spirit that was there manifested iil worthy of beiJl.g called a vic- that he had protested against the Union scor.es have appeared in tory.\ (c) Track: ''A glance back- graduation of certain builders of New York papers since then.\ wards reveals that we have won the bonfire. As for myself, I felt (4) The Glee Club: \Several but one athletic meet in the past greatly relieved a day or two later_ questions have recently been eight years-the dual meet against when I met President Raymond on raised as to the reason for inde- Rochester in 1905 ... It seems .as a trolley car, and he al!ked me finite postponement of the Glee if the time for a reaction must he with a slight smile how it was that Club trip (i.e., to Oneonta and Professor Jones had become mixed Binghamton). One of the principle· at hand and that this year Union up with students in such an affa.ir. (sic) reasons is the defunct con-· must turn out a winning team.\ 1915 Thank you for your recent iletter and issued three times a vreek. Concordiensis. in regard to the projected niainond p Jubilee issue of the Concordiensis. The \we\ that I mention above robably one of the most enjoy- ! take pleasure in sending along a very definitely includes Ernest W. able parts of my association with little information which I hope wi.U Mandeville, who was the business tl~e Concordiensis was working as be of the character which you re- manager and the moving spirit in reporter and assistant editor with quire. • the whole deal. He and I were 1917 several talented men who indoc- Although it was cor.sidered .un- classmates and we were both in trinated the younger group with a usual at that time for an e11gin.eer· Psi tJ, roommates at the time .if professional attitude toward the ing student to become editor,in-. memory serves. The horrible task work: Lewis B. Sebring, Jr., '23; chief of the Concordiensis, my pre· of getting out a paper every other Lewis H. Avery, '25, an.d Harry .N. decessor Herman Hitchcock of the day, along with such extra curri- Pitt, Jr., '24. They were profes- .Class of 1914 nominated me for that cular activities as passing college. sionals in inculcating a very .serf- position and the Publication Board courses,-wound me up with a per- ous attitude toward the undertak- confirmed the nomination. Gossip· manent nervous breakdown, and I ing. had it that considerable debate· pre- don't think that Mandeville has Altogether it was an experience ceded the confirmation. This gossip·' ever :been the same man. since I wouldn't have missed. I avoided pursuing for fear it. either. Next year they cut the· · t d '· Cordially yours, might not contain as much exag .. proJec o-wn to twice a ween.. geration as I hoped. I shD-l,lld think that you might PIDLIP H. DuBOIS, '25 The Literary Editor of th.e Con- dig something .interesting out of cordiensis was also an electrical Mandeville. After college we pub-. engineer and none other than my lished a suburban magazine in good friend and neighbor in Norris, New York 's Westchester County, County, N. J., Edward R. Hughes,. after which our ways separated. President of the Harvel Cot·por- Unhappily I haven't been in touch ation. Donald A. Coulter, \Who with him the past few years, but died before being graduated, -wa.s· I understand that he is living on Assistant Editor. Walter C. Baker, Long Island and r presume that now Chairman of the Board of d'l Trustees, was Athletic Editor· and .. you can rea l Y find his address Karl E. Agan, who is in educational; from some of your r~cords there. work in Chester, Pennsylvania, \WILS·; You people are doing a good job Business Manager. ; with Concordiensis these ~ays and A matter of general interest to· I congratulate you. Sincerely, RALPH KNIGHT '17 1918 Union College men during rny,tertn as editor-in-chief was a letter ·from Dr. J. M. W. Farnham of the Class of 1856. The letter was written. in Shanghai on March 11 1914' and: addressed to DeWitt Cllnton, R:sg:.·. Mr. Clinton was then Union College· Librarian. The letter is printed in the Concordiensis of April 23, 1914 When I joined the staff the Con-. and clears up the history of the cordy, lilw the whole world, was Idol. J14r. Clinton had written Dr. at the bi:r.th of a new era. This was Farnham statin.g that some !h(JU.ght in 1B14. Volcanoes .were everywhere the iqol had been sent to Uni<Jn by in eruption. From a little weekly Dr. Nevius. Actually Dr. Farllh.ain ·magazine, the Cortcordy was pre- contl'ibuted the idol and his letter sently to break forth and iilumin- of nearly thirty-eight yea1•s ago ate the campus three times a week (complete with postscript) is ·well;; with the make-up ·of a four page worth re-reading. ·,newspaper. It was then under the 1935 It is hard to realize that the good old Concordy is 75 years old. 1 haven't stopped to figure out how long ago it was when I was in your position. I am flattered to be included on your list seeldng mes- sages of felicitations. \Congratulations to all concerned for Iteepin.g up the traditions of one of the finest undergraduate news- papers any American college has ever known. The in1'!u•mce of the newspaper has been great alid gen- erally for the good q:t; the coilege and particularly the undergraduate body. Keep up the fine work and put in :J. good bunch of editors for next year,\ · I l!ope it is not too corny but I don't see the paper very often. However, I S,lways. ask the Presi- dent, or the Dean, or other mem- bers of the administration about if when I see them. · Best wishes. Cordially yours, CLEMENS F. HATHAWAY, '35 1938 Ralph Knight '17, now Associate ·aegis ·of Knight '17, as editor, and Editer of the Saturday Evening , Mandeville, '17, as business rna,n- Postf who was in large measure :ager-t\vd daring adventurers ·in· responsible, I believe, for changing journalism. t followed· Knight as· Fifteen years ago we made up the Concordiensis to newspa.:per- ·editor and Kennedy '18 aE; b\lsiness the 60th anniversary issue. of the style and decreasing the inter-val ·manager. In those days of the Concordy with the help of most of between issues, was one e>f the·;tri-weekly our guiding principle: the former editors living then. ablest and most interested menibel'S ,;was to combine the best featur-es I've just lopked at it again to re- of the Concordiensis team during;~ of classical scholarship with the. capture moo·d and time. rny'term of office. Morris Gill>ert '.fierce enterprise of a modern news- My class carne to Union with was another, ··.paper. Dixon Ryan Fox. The social fer- I remember one item I wrote for \Concordy\ for which I was \razzed\ because· of the conclud- ing sentence. Damon, who was President Raymond's dog, died. I really spread myself on the Damon and Pythias angle-of Damon's ap- pearances at morning chapel, of his friendliness to the students, of the clog heaven, and then spoiled it by winding up with: \Damon was a good dog\. dition of the orchestra and the· These are a few casaal snap- semi-comatose condition of··· the shots. They are but a faint reflec- mandolin aggregation.\ However, tion of the real Union which con- difficulties were surmounted at sisted then, as it consists now, of least in part, and the glee club the men who make 1,1p its fabric-, \last Wednesday gave a very sue- its faculty, its trustees, its alumni: ·cessful concert in the First Re- and its undergraduates. We await formed Church of Cohoes. Fuller, with anticipation renewing ac- '08, scored a bit in his sketch en- quaintance with them in Charlie titled 'A Foggy Morning on the Waldron's forthcoming boolt of Raging Erie.' Wachter, '09, sang reminiscences; No one is better 'While I Have You'.\ qualified or better able to tell you (5) College Spirit: ·\There are about Union than he is. Although I did not go into jo\Ur- We had our editorial office in rnent of the times bubbled every- lialisrn I feel that my experionce WashbUrn Hall. Its furnishings where. Pat French and boug with the Concordiensis has been were meagre. The typewriter was Campbell joii:J,ed the factilty and very useful and, let me assure any- in the best tradition of a newspaper the study of ·practical government one who wishes to k·now, ,ft ·Was shop~shalty in :the keys. The pub-; became a major concern for many also extremely enjoyable. The job lishing house was up a ricltety, students. We were exposed to di- W<J,s made .pleasant by those ,\vlto flight of stairs in South Centre verse personalities like Rexford were associated with me In the S.ti·eet. The head of this establish- Guy Tugwell, Bernard Baruch, work and, while I have mention.ed mtmt was Comeau, an obliging Freidrich Shorr, Irving Lang- oply a few of them, I remain :n\oat gentleman usually frantic because muir ... grateful to them all. . Concordy copy was late. The type. · Ernie Ligon was beginning his :PORTER L. MERRIMAN '01 many ways of considering this sub- MARTIN H; WEYRA.\UCH '08 H • .r. DELCliAllli'S 'lfi was set at a Socialist newspaper stuc;Iies of religion in character- News Co I H(J F( of Uni in Mer The by the Knapp Union bestowe for dl1 chosen light t Arthur, mist, 1 Fine, e York Weeks, lish, wi at the .Arthur the ell spea;k tural E At t monies stu'den1 deg.ree1 speak e. Searr succes1 culture of the which States Mr.KI progra 1898 t< Ehev cancel: allow ested i to att credit 'A Ca Cas· be pr Marc! com pi Donal Prodt Thr are tc are 'I Robel The 1 byRI New neavE St. A The thrill in L recei· Lond first \G-as· Mr Aber so cia maU Univ of c Heii:l Unio over has Fain Zt () p:r:e ill~ . cia: aid Mil Cai '.i Co, ,J)(IJ Br' 1 .Tel !- OJ witt I t1 eon1 niVE 1ntt

4 'FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1952 Former Concordiensis Editors Recollect We have asked an forme1· Concordiensis editors to write a few of their 1·ecollections of their days at Union College and on the CoB.cordy in order to reconstruct a more per- sonal history of the news- paper. We 1·eprint our re- plies. 1901 Fifty years ago Union College was a much smaller and poorer in- stitution than today. There were but a few hundred students and the college was on the verge of financial disaster. Union's most be- loved alumnus ll'a8 elected treas- urer at about the time of our graduation. The Concordiensis at that time covered not only college activities, but also attempted to gather and publish the alurrlni ne\\\s now found in Union Alumnus. The subscribers consisted of both students and alumni. However, the total aub- scription list was small und the returns from advertising were trifling. So the staff worked for glory and the business manager, if he made a profit, pwbably u~ed it up in an evening at the old Hotel Edison bar. Although there \'\'all a staff when I was editor of the \Concordy\, the truth is that the editor was also the main reporter and proof reader. Perhaps this is still true. The only member of the staff who showed an interest was John Guthrie of the class of 1902. There was some committee in charge of the appointment of my successor, but I disregarded it and appointed Guthrie. Although I have never seen him since, I have followed his distinguished career in the United States Forestry Service with a great deal of pleasure. 1908 Of Union College in 1907-'08, a later-day Shakespeare might well have written This other Eden, demi-paradise ... This happy breed of men, this little word . . . This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this Union. In those days, by-gone by nearly half a century, our col'lege (or so it seems to us now) was as· dis- tinct a separate dominion as was medieval England. It was set, island-like, in a sea of houses and factories known as Down Town. Its citizens lived largely unto them- selves, venturing forth, however, to carry culture to the rude world outside, whenever a desire for re- laxation, refreshment or mischief moved them. To look again upon that pleasant period let us open up thP shutters of the past, with the aid of the• back files of the Concordiensis. The numbers that engage our particular attention are those dated from April 20, 1907 to April 14, 1908, the period of the edilorship of the Class of 1908. The Concordy in those days was produced unde1· a rnodifled form of the hit-or-miss system. Whatever the prPcedent circumstances might haw been, the night before pub- lication was always spC'nt in pl'e- paring pagP after page of copy under the cold eyes of some <·om- posmg room foren1an who wanted more type to till up his empty : forms. Engaged in this enterprise ; you would lind the reluctant editor himself and one or two even more reluctant assistants who had been caJoled or coerced into service. It was in the crucibles of such fiery circumstances that the immortal lines which are about to be laid bcfoi·e yuu were born. It is to be regretted that nothing more than mere samplings may here be re- produced, because of the obvious space limitations. To aid the read- er who might otherwise become confused, we have taken the liberty of presenting the material in num- bered, topical headings. Senior Boa~d, 1915 [ --:· ~ ll i I I I , J H. J . D E'LCNAM P.S D.A.COULl\ f_R_ ... :,,. n _.,. u 1-<...I.::.AG-AN DU51Nt.:.:.J!> 1'-\f.:,Ju.'\trt k ')· ·>· .>\ picture tal<Pn of the Senior Board mPmbers in 1!115, which was presented to Uw Clll'l'Pnt staff by H. ,J, Del<'hamps, Pdito!' at that time. Note the \Athletic Editor\ was W. C. BakPr, prespntly t'nion Colleg-e chairman of tht> Board of TrustP!'S. 1915 1916 As I reca:ll it, my period as editor of the \Concordy\ was the last year the publication a:ppeared' in magazine form. I know I was anxious to switch over to n.e~>··s­ paper form •but the contract had already been ar1angetl. My f·riend, the Ju,te \Gummy\ Glenn was the busine,;s manager and he alv.ays seemed lo be able to get enough ads to meet expensc•s even tho· \'' e put out some extra fancy issues .especially when our basketball team was cleaning up ali con· tenders. I ~·~call one of my most eml.Jal- rassing rr.oments in com· .. ection with the ii:oncordy. We wei'C of· tered a lot of cuts and other ma- terial by some civic organization boosting for the Mohawk River onclgtJ or· as it was then ter-med · 1l\.e Hre<-<t vVestern Gateway.\ lt ~eeined like a very wo1 thy cause to me so I feil for it and used a.U thc•ir matt•rial and got out quite an issue. I was •feeling pretty happy on!!' it until Prexy Rich- mond in chapel commerh'd that he thought the college paper should , onfin~ itself to campus issues. Hr was very nice about it, but I felt iihe crawling into a pin hole and' pu!Lng it in after me. 1 u:i;;bt be uble to recall a fe·w vtl:Lr tiun~;s but ;you will probublj lla1·e mo1·c than ;you can US<' any- how. Heres wishing you luck and pc>rhaps you will feel disposed to st·nd me a copy. Veq· cordiaHy yours, .RICHARD E. TAYLOre '1.6 1917 Regarding your query about re· collections of my duties as Con- cordiensis editor, the chief thing which sticks out in memory is that we changed format starting Jn.y senior year as editor. Before that, as you undoubtedly know, Con- curdy was a weekly publication in magazine form, ha:lf literary and half news. It was changed then office several blocks a.bove the ar- mory, I used to go there morn- ings to read proof and afternoons to Comeau's to put the paper to bed. I sat up late or sometimes mse early to write editorials· and news stories. I learned to sit in front .of a typewriter and stare until something finally appeared on .the paper-a philippic, a lampoon or a paslminade. This tl·aining, to- gether with that I received by prac- tical expericr.ce at Comeau's was invaluable after graduation when I had to earn my salt in newspaper \'.'Ol'k. FREDERICK G. BASCOM, '18 1925 Thank you for your invitation to comment on the seventy-fifth an- niversary of The Concordiensis. That the newspaper has continued for so many years would indicate that it has an important function on the campus. ·· When I was· editor, there were a few changes from the .preceding years. We tried to collect the news, 1:educe it to readable English, and .to print it without too many mis- prints. The twice-a-week dealines wet:e met with reasonable prompt- ness, largely because I was for- tunate in having a very able staff of assistant editors and ·reporters. The physical facilities of the editor's ottlce consisted of one old OliVet· typewriter and a couple of rolls of newsprint. In p1·evious years there had been a Concordien- sis office across the hall from the Old Chapel, but that had been taken away by the powers-that- were, and the editorial office was wherever the Oliver typewriter happened to be. Somehow, by dint of many phone calls, typing up stories at odd hours, and rushing the copy down to the press, the paper was put to- gether. The news in our paper was much as today, except that activities may have been much different. There were no automobiles on the earn- pus, and few students had ever ridden in one. Dances were most often held at Hans Yates' boat house on the river, where boats with many cushions could be rented for a row with one's sweet- heart up Frog Alley-now spanned by the highway bridge to Scotia. <lJ The Campus - li.e., This ject ... There must be a feeling demi-paradise): \By appointing a that perhaps our duty to Alma committee to investigate the condi- Mater doesn't end with our shouts tion of the college grounds and to of approbation when a good play prescribe reforms where necessary, is made at games: that if we, per- the college· trustees have given an sonally, got into action . . . we impetus that will help old Union a might place old Union on the long stride forward on the road of pedestal of prominence that once progress. True, our campus has was hers. You remember those never been in execrable shape, but days when we played Syracuse off there has been room for a few their feet in football with a score improvements ... \ At a later date of 75-0 . , . The Old Spirit is here. we read: \WHOSE IS THE I It's only asleep. Be an alarm clock CA:O.lPUS. The annual invasion of and help wake it up.\ Subsequently the army of the town's yolmgsters the Concordy noted: \The new yell has arrived. At practically every I proposed at the campus meeting is moment of the day, ~he college Ia good one. Learn it. Here it is: g1·ounds are over-run w1th a horde . Rah Rah Rah Rah Union Union of young terrorists · · · Can we Rah: Rah: Rah: Rah: Union: Union: Thanlr you for your recent letter in reg-ard to thP projected Diamond Jubilee issue of the Concordiensis. 1 take pleasure in sending along a little information which I hope will be of the character which you re- into the present newspaper f()t'rn and issued three times a week. The \we\ that I mention above very definitely includes Ernest W, Mandeville, who VIas the business mana!',er and the movir.g spirit in the whole deal. He and I were 1917 classmates and we were both in Psi U, roommates at the tim€ if memoty serves. The horrible task of getting out a paper every other day, along with such extra curri- cular activities as passing college courses, -wound me up with a per- manent nervous breakdown, and 1 don't thinlt that Mandeville has ever beeu the same man since either. Next year they cut the project down to twice a week. Lewis W. Mauger, '25, at times simplified the problems connected with editing the paper by his suc- cessfu~ sales of advertising space. I believe his record in that re- spect was a new high for the Concordiensis. Probably one of the most enjoy- able parts of my association with the Concordiensis was working as reporter and assistant editor with several talented men who indoc- trinated the younger group with a professional attitude toward the work: Lewis B. Sebring, Jr., '23; Lewis H. Avery, '25, and Harry N. Pitt, Jr., '24. They were profes- sionals in inculcating a very seri- ous attitude toward the undertak- ing. Union had a great fooball eleven in the fall of 1900. This made good news, and the plunges of Pat Carver, perhaps Union's greatest fullback, made sensational news at the time. The quarterback on that team was none other than Le Roy \Jeff\ Weed, well known today on the campus as long time Trustee and a loyal alumnus in every sense of the word. Students who see him now should not be sur- prised to learn that he was excep- tionally sharp on the hurdles and pole vault fifty years ago. The most sensa tiona! news of the year 1900-1901 was the tearing down and burning on two occasions of the billboard erected on the corner of Union Street and Nott Terrace diagonally across from the Blue Gate. That is a long story and deserves special treat- ment, Another interesting story was the arrest and conviction <$3 apiece) of about twelve members of the class of 1901 for starting a large bonfire at midnight in front of the old City Hall and Police Head- quarters on Jay Street. This story never appeared in the Concordien- sis but it did appear in the Sche- nectady Gazette. Carl Hammer, '99, I think, wrote it up and stated in the article that the names given by the culprits were evidently fictitious, except one-\Frederick Robertson Jones\ Now there was a person bearing this name and he was an instructor at the Col- lege and his resentment was \won- derful to behold\. We even learned that he had protested against the graduation of certain builders of the bonfire. As for myself, I felt not have some semblance of pro- Rah Rah Rah Rah Union tection ?'' Still later, when a lot ' ' • ' ' . ' was sold from the Nott Street (6) Athletics: U n que stwnably side of the campus, the Concordy amateur .. <a> Baseball: \Last Sat- believed that \the spirit of Com- urday Umon played her first b~se­ mercialism is not satiated. It has 1 ball gam~ of the season ~gan~st demanded a portion of the Cam- West Pomt on. the latte.r s dla- pus: and ground is being sold mond. Everythmg conspired. to right next' to the College Garden. m~ke the game rather a dJsap- Now the proposition of turning pomtment to all concerned .... the pasture into a City Playground Th~ score at the ~nd was 5-0 m has arisen ... We are constricted then· favor. There. 1s every reason enough. We want our Campus l!ept to suppose that w1th _a few weeks as it is ... Let us raise the battle- o.f good steB:dy practxce our ;:ar- cry against Commercialism-' OUR s1ty team. Will be one to ma e a CAMPUS INTACT!'\ rec~rd th1s year for ~.he Garnet (2} Campus Mores: \To the /agams~. her ~dversarles. <bl Foot- Freshmen: You have been \vel- ball: . Harnll~on goes on ~ecord corned into Old Union ... and have of havu:g ~ch1e.v~d anothe: VIctory had the opportunity to become ac- ovPr UniQn s. gndtron warners, an~! quainted .. _ This year's sermon to ~he outside world .last Sa~m­ to you will be brief: 1-Don't try day ,s game spell~ nothmg but de- to show eithel' the faculty or the feat for. Old Unwn. Shall \:'e say upperclassmen how to manage af- for an. mstant that such IS th; fairs or you'll he sorry. 2 -Get out case With the undergr?-du~te body. f 11 t' ·t f h' h ... True, by a techmcahty of the or every co ege ac lVI Y or w 1 <? game, the Buff and Blue are ac- you have a bent, or no one 1v1ll d't d 'th th · t B t evPr know you're here \ ere I e WI e VIC ory. u 1 31 1• 11 b 1 i r i t y: \The Athletic every one of the G'arn~t .supporters B d h · t d p f 0 d k ... who saw that thnll!ng plunge oar . as appom e ro · . P Y e of our splendid team to within a to devise some s<;heme to give ac- fraction of victory, knew that the count.s of a~hletJc contests more true spirit of Old Union is still a prornmence m newspapers gener- living, vital thing in our midst ... all~. Arrangements . were made by Any occasion that could arouse the which news has smce been sup- . . . I' d t th A · t d p d sp1nt that was there mamfested P H'; o e ssocm e ress a~ is worthy of bei!,1g called a vic- ~mon scores have. appeared In tory.'' (c) Track: \A glance back- New York papers smce then.'' . (4l The Glee Club: \Several wards reveals. that voe. have won . but one athletic meet m the past greatly relieved a day or two later~ qu.estwns have recently _been eight years-the dual meet against when I met President Raymond on raised as to the reason for mde- Rochester in 1905 . . . It seems as a trolley car, and he asked me finite P?stp~nement of the Glee if the time for a reaction must be with a slight smile how it was that C~ub tnp (t.e., to Oneont~ ~nd at hand and that this year Union Professor Jones had become mixed BI.nghamton>. One of the prmc1ple must turn out a winning team.\ up with students in such an affa.ir. (sic) reasons Is the defunct con- I remember one item I wrote for \Concordy\ for which I was \razzed\ because of the conclud- ing sentence. Damon, who was President Raymond's dog, died. I really spread myself on the Damon and Pythias angle-of Damon's ap- pearances at morning chapel, of his friendliness to the students, of the dog heaven, and then spoiled it by winding up with: \Damon was a good dog\. dition of the orchestra and the These are a few casual snap- semi-comatose condition of the shots. They are but a faint reflec- mandolin aggregation.\ However, t~on of the real. Union. which con- difficulties were surmounted at SJsted then, as It cons1sts now, of least in part and the glee club the men who make up its fabrie- \Iast Wednesday gave a very sue- its f~culty, its trustees, its alum~i cessful concert in the First Re- and Its undergraduates. We awatt formed Church of Cohoes. Fuller, with anticipation renewing ac- '08, scored a hit in his sl,etch en- quaintance with them in Charlie titled 'A Foggy Morning on the Wal?r.on's forthcoming .boolt of Raging Erie.' Wachter, '09, sang remm1scences. No one Is better 'While I Have You'.\ qualified or better able to tell you (5) Cotlege Spirit: \There are about Union than he is. PORTER L. MERRIMAN '01 many ways of considering this sub- MARTIN H. WEYRAUCH 'OS quire. • Although it was cor.sidercd un- usual at that time for an engineer- ing student to become editor-in- chief of the Concordiensis, my pre- decessor Herman Hitchcocl' of the Class of 1914 nominated me for that position and the Publication Board confirmed the nomination. Gossip had it that considerable debate pre- ceded the confirmation. This gossip I avoided pursuing for fear it might not contain as much exag- geration as I hoped. The Literary Editor of the Con- cordiensis was also an electrical engineer and none other than my good friend and neighbor in Morris County, N. J., Edward R. Hughes, President of the Harvel Cm·por- ation. Donald A. Coulter, who died before being graduated, was Assistant J;l:ditor. Walter C. Baker, now Chairman of the Board of Trustees, was Athletic Editor and Karl E. Agan, who is in educational work in Chester, Penn~ylvania, Was Busin£>ss Manager. A matter of general interest to Union Coll<'ge men dur·ing my term as editor-in-chief was a letter from Dr. J. M. W. Farnham of the Class of 1856. The letter was written in Shanghai on March 11, 1914 and addressed to De\>Vitt Clinton, Esq. Mr. Clinton was then Union College Librarian. The letter is pr·inted in the Concordiensis of April 23, 1914 and clears up the history of the Idol. Mr. Clinton had written Dr. Farnham stating that some thought the idol had been sent to Union by Dr. Nevius. Actually Dr. Farnham contributed the idol and his letter of nearly thir.ty-eight years ago (complete with postscript 1 is well worth re-reading, Ralph Knight '17, now Associate Editor of the Saturday Evf'ning Pos~ who was in large measure responsible, I believe, for changing the Concordiensis to newspaper style and decreasing the interval between issues, was one of the ablest and most interested members of the Concordiensis team during my 'term of office. Morris Gilbert was another. Although I did not go ir.to jour- nalism I feel that my experience with the Concordiensis has been very useful and, Jet me assure any- one who wishes to know, it was also extremely enjoyable. The job was made pleasant by those who were associated with me in the work and, while I have mentioned only a few of them, I remain most grateful to them all. . H. J. DELCHAMPS 'HI Altogether it was an experience I wouldn't have missed. Cordially yours, I sh~uld think that you might dig something interesting out of' Mandeville. After college we pub- lished a suburban magazine in PHILIP H. DuBOIS, '25 1935 New York 's Westchester County, It is hard to realize that the good after which our ways separated. old Concordy is 75 years old. I Unhappily I haven't been in touch haven't stopped to figure out how with him the past few years, but long ago it was when I was in I understand that he is living on your position. I am flattered to be Long Island and I presume that included on your list seeking mes- you can rea<lily find his address sages of felicitations. from some of your records there.· \Congratulations to all concerned You people are doing a good job' for- keeping up the traditions of one with Concordiensis these days and Qf the finest undergraduate news- I congratulate you. . papers any American college has SincGrely, ever known. The influence of the newspaper has been great and gen- RALPH KNIGHT '17 eral!y for the good of the college ·and particularly the undergraduate 1918 IJody. Keep up the fine work and put in a good bunch of editors for :next year.\ r hope it is not too corny but I When I joined the staff the CQn- , don't see the paper very often. cordy, lil1e the whole world, was However, I always ask the Presi- at the birih of a new era. This was dent, or the Dean, or other mem- in 1914. Volcanoes :were everywhere ber-s of the administration about it in eruption. From a little weekly when I see them. magazine, the Concordy was pre- Best wishes. sently to break forth and illumin- ate the campus three times a week Cordially yours, with the make-up of a four page CLEMENS F. HATHAWAY, '35 newspaper. It was then under the aegis of Knight '17, as editor, and Mandeville, '17, as business man- ager-two dal'ing adventurers in journalism. I followed Knight as editor and Rennedy ;18 as business manager. In those days of the tri-weel!:ly our guiding principle was to combine the best features of classical scholarship with the fierce entel\}lrise of a modern news- paper. We had our editorial office in Washburn Hall. Its fmnishings were meagre. The typewriter was in the best tradition of a newspaper shop-shalty in the l1eys. The pub- lishing house was up a rickety flight of stairs in South Centre Stt·eet. The head of this establish- ment was Comeau, an obliging gentleman usually frantic beeau:se Concordy copy was late. The ty]le was set at a. Socialist newspapet• 1938 Fifteen years ago we made up the 60th anniversary issue of the Concordy with the help of most of the former editors living then. I've just looked at it again to re- capture mood and time. l\>Iy class came to Union with Dix:on Ryan Fox. The social fer- ment of the times bubbled every- where. Pat French and Doug Campbell joined the faculty and the study of practical government hecame a major concern for many students. We were exposed to di- verse personalities like Rexford Guy Tugwell, Bernard Baruch ·Freidrich Shorr, Irving Lang~ muir ... Ernie Ligon was beginning his studies of religion in character- News F of Ur in Mt The by thE Knapp Union besto'>' for d ochoser light .A·rthu: mist, Fine, York Week: lish, v at the .Arthu the c speak tural At monie stu.deJ degre speak Sea succe cultm of tl whicl: State: Mr. F prog1· 1898 Ele cancE allow ested to ai credi 'A c~ Ca be }: Mar• COni] Don: Pro( TJ: are are Rob The by I NeVI nea1 St. Tl thri in recE Lon firs \Ga M Ab~ soci ma1 Unl of Hei Uni ave has Fal z wi1 I GI)I ni1 fU1

5 FRIDAY., 'FEBRUARY 22, 1952 History of the Newspaper ------------~-----------------------------------------------~------------------~--------------------------~~------------ 'The 75 Year Wh.en the Concordy First Became a Newspaper VOl;UME X~ POLIOMYEUUS TO HINDE~ ENRO~LMENT )\l:e~> Frq¢ Actively Infested Distrloto Barreq; -WILL NOT ENTER UNTIL QCTOl;l~~ ~ E;o<.pected, That Ruling Will :Af .. feet About Fifty- Five · Men, No.1 BC!iOause. of the poliomyelitis epidemh;s id s!;}veral loc~Kties fron' which Un1on snen ~ome, aucl· of tha <iarne•t efitlrts tht' Sohc- ne<tarly Health Deparh:nent :bas · bceu mal<iug to keep the cit;y free j.., Jrom the p!agltet mauy of the- eo1.. Tap Row-\Vl\itritr 1 D~Laplante, 1 .. Uowman·, ?.. ~l'o\Yn. Bcc'ke'tt,, Be.11i~geri Flochuli. Sct.'l)nd Row_..;Coff. Murray. ., . l~e au\¢1.0titi(I'S W~t:fl n'luch in (A':llh C~Jacll) 1 Dnws~.m, (Concl<~}, .Rosel..-+;ms, (Capt.l~ Roof, Porter, {Mgr.), Alanlo~. favor of postponing th.e opening- JlOttatl\ l\oi;y...;UiHYt Momt!:+ ·tms.b, ~nell, fo:;ter, Ch«rl\e. of eolleg~ until Octohl'I\ 4th. 1---...,..--~------- ---------...,...------~--~-~~-~- ~~~ ~~~ i~a)~~:J~~: ~~:~l~ 1 PRE· SEASON FOOTBAlL PRACTICE. . ! \~ + :=:~;::::;~. ~ ! :;doc! to op~ri <>U•the oril(inal date. . - BIDNGS OUT' snluAD OF PROMISE {• Pattly Cloudy T~day; Tucs- : Jhe Ct)nfhUon :was madt\ how- . . _ _ U .,.,. day Fatr. ••• -ever~ th~t ~1en ·ft6m actively -in- ·-· ·-_ -..........--~ - - · '*'· .:+ f~FJed dtstpct~ were not to be ad- -CO~CORDIENSiS ASSUMES F n ·C d' · · c d + •:• ~ + '' + •:• + + -+ + + ·:• + + ~' ontttedm~til Oeic>~t· ~nd. . NEW FORM AND POLICY a on ttmt1mg: . ommence + UNION COLLEGE ·~ ,.· . Ac<:erlhn!liV the following .......- on Alexander F•eld on + CALENDI\.R, + ·t, Jetter' \\•ns arl<lrcsscd to ~ach stu- ·wm Her*\fter Be a Tbdee.a. September 7. o~o + • *nt a~d _sub-(Ie:;.hman by J'rosi- ' Week Ncw•pape~>. -·-- . + Today. + <l<l'n( ~tchmctnd: . · · BACK FIE:LD LOOI{S + Regi•tration .(Cla.s of t!l20) ~· . trNt6J.'( COLLEGE: A LITERARY SUPPLEMENT BETTER 'PHAN THE LINE + -Football P.racticc _i\,:in !'. ~l. + + Tuesday, +'. graduated in May 1943 found our .big stories in the way Union put her.self on a wartime footing. It ·became necessary to cut publica- tion to onee a week; \Number ·One\ stories were no -longer hard , to find, as new developments ·:crowded swiftly into :being; and each week the staff got a little smaller. The seniors who remained were unable to step down in mid-Spring, because the Jun-ior staff was so small and so busy. I had the un- usual privilege of editing my own commencement issue; we saJd ·:goodbye to ourselves· and from ollf•- selves. By April 1, most of the staff of The Idol, .the literat·y quar- terly, had departed, and the editors of The Concordiensis .put to bed the •last issue of the year of their · one•time rival. .puhlication. Its cover: Stanley Green's sl{etch of the statue of Chester Arthur, dressed as an air-raid warden. It is not, however, these un- usual circumstances that come most read.iJy to mind; nor will it be your mobilization-time difficul- . ties that you will -remember, if, as I suspect, your editorship has rnueh in common wi'th Bob Hay- ner's and mine. The things we remember best are the things that remain the same; newsbeats, edi- torial campaigns, gag issues, dance issues, deadlines and days at the press. I wish The Coneordiensis a happy year and a prosperous one, and you-a staff that writes every story to fit. GRANGER TRIPP '43 appear, at times, a thankless duty, and may God permit many more exciting years of happy voluminous appearances to an old friend, \The Cwn:cordy\ on the occasion 'Jf its Silver Jubilee. Working on The Concordiensis held a fascination for me always· and for those on the staff. In the days of \USS Union-C-12\ when we were shot t-handed on the staff, and an ed;tur had to be chief-reporter, re-write man, proof-reader, make-· up editor and editorialist rolled in- to one-aU these present them- selves as happy memories. The late hours on Thursday nights put- ting the pa-per \to bed,\ the fre- quent visits to the \Scuttlebutt\ and Mrs. Forester's delicious sand- wiches, coffee and perhaps othet beverag<'s cor.sumed by the gallons, F1ank, the campus policeman looi{- ing in on us, taking the dummy·, sheets to the press on Friday morn- ings, the ;:;plendid cooperation of Frank Cheski and others at the press, the over-cuts in H.A.L. 's Logic class (H.A.L.'s marking sys- tem is proof beyond compare!)- the pattern remains perhaps un- chant:ed. However, the events that stand out in my association and editor- ship of The Concordiensis include the untimely death of President Dixon Ryan Fox, the excellent guidance given Ur.ion by Dr. Ben- jamin P. Whitaker, until President DaVidson grasped with a firm hand the \helnl of Union,\ the Sesqui- centennial Issue and the efficient preparations of the Sesquicenten- nial Committee, ar.d last, but not least, the pleasant associations 19 46 (not without some verbal battles, The ·concordiensis first adopted newspapei' format on Septembei' 18, 1916. The first pag·c of that . naturally) with Dave Cohen, Abbot issue is :pictured above. Note the football player in the las~ row on the extreme left in the picture Weinstein, Bob (\I Can Be Reached :E;ditori~l an<! B\l~ii1¢S$ St~!LR.,__ W-eek':t_.S~.solJ.ing.at P\l<>\ KllOb, + EntTante. Rxarnina!ion.< 4 · .. arranged. and Sy$tematized, toke .,,,Qtt>r~e~~ Aband<>ncd + Reg•slntt•<m, Can<ildate~ Jilt ~ . · · ;ii~l:rBl~sd~5~tt_,_·:~~ ... ~:: · ._:.~~·~:..~5.:-::~-: ::·j~~c~m~-~-:3~1Dt:~i{' -._ ~, - ;_ ~~- .... =:.'. ·: .= · ·: --, ~--~-- · =, -=.}~·: .. ~= .. - .:~> ;_ •(Wittner). Heartieet congratulations to the· al 'The Union Inn'\) Bush, Bill -----------------------------------------------~tt~a~~illclT~Cnnoo~~~~C~g~~~~~h&W~ ensis for pers~vering at what ma:y the ever present cooperation of building. PhHip Mosely was an in-· structor in World history :and left for Columbia in 1935 to continue his brilliant work in Russian politil!;. Joe Rotundo returned and read the New York Times to us in Corporation Finance and Earl Cummins gave us the day-to-day story on labor . . . laE?t official anniversary recogni- not' at all flavorful of old Siwash, tion previous to this one, the 65th.· warmly to reflect on the genuine· The actual justification for any- lift it gives us to review our Con- one or anything---,particularly a col- cordy days. I think I can speak lege newspaper _ to celebrate a for them as well as myself in sin~ 65th anniversat·y is a matter that cerely congratulating you and the' is, perhaps, best not probed on any Concordy staff upon your 75th an- Johnny March was the great character of the campus, offset on another level by the fabulous Duke Nelson of footba!l, hockey and South Dorm. Dr. Fox Imported sheep for the old pasture, stage and movie actors for the Mohawk Drama Festival and heartcburn for the traditionalists. (The sheep fre- quently were e?>und baa-ing in Ger- man and Mandarin on George H. Danton's front porch.) Charles Coburn, Walter Hampden, Jean Muir and James Kil'kwood· <Dustin Farnum was unavailable) were names to conjure with those of Eliphalet Nott, William Seward, and Edward Bellamy ... Our columnists lit fires in the most combustible places. 'Bill Mul- vey (the Earl Wilson of our little stage) wore out the carpet in my brother Milt's <News Bureau) of- fice. The mest exciting tidbit Bill almost dished up concerned an in- ternational figure who was shack- ing up with his secretary at the Van Curler while on a commend- able tour of duty as honorary fel- Iow at Union. There was Julie Bundgus (now -in radio and TV) regaling the campus with his Idle Drivel and that incomparable lyricist Henry Malcolm Seider who wrot\i about the ''staid and chaste\ girls who later became \stayed and chased.\ And Jack Malone (now at the Union-Star) who emu· lated the best movie reviewers in The Nation and New Republic ... Carl Trahman, our sports editor (now archeologist.:...what a fall is this?), was Sigma Xi and Phi Beta Kappa, following a fairly uneven but discernable tradition of Con- cordy sports editors. We had great times with Hal'lovi Delaney and his plug-chewing printers, and the grind was worth it. b · T t t niversary. I hope that your cele- rational asJs. he · emper of he · bration issue and those that follow times-whether it was just before or just aftel' Pearl Harbor I cannot it will give you the training and quite ·vecall-mad'e us feel that deep satisfaction that those of us,· some fonnal recognition of the long associated with the paper's 65th tradition .of the Concmdy was in year, still carry with us. order. Sincerely, The celebration took the form of DR. A. V. FEIGENBAUM '42 a dinner followed by a Gridiron- type take-off qn the college ad~ mini~tration and its practices. Most vivid in my memory a·re Stanley Green, '43, who had a major share in producing and writing the skits; Bob Hayner, '43, and Roy Aldrich, '42, who made the outstanding per- sonal triumphs in theil' roles as President Dixon Ryan Fox and Wendell Wilkie; and the whole ConcoFdy staff, in its role of carry- ing the many phases of the pro- gram. The Gridiron was so well received that it was produced on sevel'al occasions through the en- suing academic yeal' - including Commencement. T-he Concordy staff climaxed its celebration by the publication of a multi-page issue which bulged the eyes-and the poeketbook~of the business and advel'tising, depart- ment. I presume it is still avail- able in the files. The Senior Board at that period was a relatively small ~me but made up for its lack of quantity by a very high quality of output on the part of several of its members who very soon thereafter distinguislJ.E)d themselves in some phase or an- · other of war service. Sol Blechman, whose innate curi- osity and news-gathering instinct made him an outstanding Manag- ing Editor, was pivot man both for the anniversary issue and for the total year of Concordy output; as . a Marine c~mbat conespondent, Sol was later killed in Guam. Jack Pearson, who in my judgment was one of the top sports editors the Concot•dy had ever seen turned out 1943 My congratulations to you and your staf and to The Concot'diensis on its seventy-fifth birthday. The Concordiensis and the peo- ple who put it together these days must find themselves in a situa- tion not unlike that of 1942-43~ Union that year felt for the first time the full impact Of World War II; classes and extra-curricular ac- tivities alike suffered as students departed, with what dignity they could muster, for the armed serv- ices. Part of the class of 1943 was graduated in 1942, in Union's first \White Commencement\; Bob Hayner, one of the two editors-in- chief from our class, was among them. Those of us who remained until the rest of the class was ' James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Strftet Don't sell th(!; Iii-tie one. short Bill Ketz, all of the faculty, Fran Pt·ay, the office of Dean-Emeritus Garis and many, many others. In retrospect I can say in a very positive way that nothing will ever replace the happy associations I've had with The Ctmcordiensis. In this so-called Atomic Age, The Con- cordiensis will continue, as it is uow doing so well, to inform the students of the vital issues of an age when the United States can not falter as a leader in the world struggle against a God-less phil- osophy and the struggle for the minds of free men everywhere. RICHARD E. TONTARSIU '16 0 Birthday Greetings Birthday Greetings to the Con- cordiensis from Skidmore News. A Diamond Jubilee celebration is quite unusual for a college paper -we are honored to have the thirteenth oldest one in Amel\ica so close to us. You have reason to be extremely proud of the work you are doing with your newspaper, and we ex- tend to all of you every good wish for success in the futul'e. Sincerely, THE EDITORS OF SKIDMORE NEWS My colleagues on the staff of The Campus join me in extending best wishes to the editors of the< Concordiensis on the occasion of its seventy-fifth anniversary. We are lool{ing forward to seeing you!' Diamond Jubilee issue. Congratulations on your past achievements. Hel'e's hoping that you have at least 75 more equally successful anniversaries. Sincerely yours, TED BECKER, EDITOR THE CAMPUS University of Roohester To you, who w:ill be recalling your time:;~ a generation s(mce, we gladly relinquish the good old torch. Be:;;t wishes, a series of sports pages which up ~;;;;~;;;;;;;;~;;;;~;;~~~ to that time Were standards at r which any college newspaper could HYMAN A. ENZER, '38 1942 shoot. Jack went on to make an outstanding record in the Air Force; fairly late in the war, he crashed in Germany and later escaped from a prisonet• of w;a.r It must be a great sense of satis- camp. faction for you to be · editing the If my own reactions are any ·Concordy in its 75th year. I had. criterion, I have the hunch that the privilege of holding, the editor's' the members of the staff of that chair in what I presume was the era would not feel it al all maudlin GUERRA'S PHARMACY • Fountain T HEY'RE both good basketball players. But if we were to judge them the way we judge telephone equipment, we'd take the small one. You see, telephone equipment occu- pies valuable space, uses costly mate- rials. Paring down its size helps keep down the cost of telephone service. on size, came up with a new small type. When 600 of these new ampli- fiers are mounted on a frame two feet wide and eleven feet high, they do a job which once required a roomful of equipment. Size was cut- but not perforinance! SAVE 15'% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 150fo N.OTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Taka-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 · Raw, Steamed Clams · '\Meet and Eat at EDDIE\S\ 547 Nott St., oppCiiite Green Gate Schenectacly, N. Y.~ MEAL TICKETS--$6.75 for $5.00 Prescriptions Sundries • 600 Union St .. Cor. Barrett St. Take voice amplifiers, for example. Telephone engineers put the squeeze This is one of many cases where the Bell System has made big things small to help keep the cost of telephone service low . BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

5 FRIDAY, FEBRU~RY 22, 1952 The 75 Year History of the Newspaper --~~~------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------~------------ WRen the Concordy First Became a Newspa.per THE CONCORDIENSIS / 7 .,_.r~ f1 • VOLUME XL POLIOMYELITIS TO HINDER ENROLLMENT . . Men From Actively Infested· Districts l3atred. WILL NOT )'NTER I UNTIL 0CTOBER il E><pcicted Th;-;,:;ing Wil; Af.l feet About Fifty-Five I Men. I Bctans< of the poliomyelitis 1 epidemics in :;c\.·eral loc:alitie~ 1 from .. ,, hich Union_ met1 come, and II of the earnL~!It t:fforts the ~c:he~ n<eta,Jy l·kallh Department has l~ecn making to keep the ctty free j Pll BLISH ED BY Til-E STUDENTS OF l'NION COLLEGE le~e- authoritips w~r.s much in (.\~s 1 t Conc.h), nawson. lC~lachL Ro£e:krans, (Capt 1. Roof. l'urter. {)!p;r}. M,uoson. favor of' :postponing the opening- Uoltolll How-Utlly~ Mtlun:. Tnns ... , ~nell, Fo.;tea·, ChnrHe ' /· . '\'- graduated in May 1943 found our appC'at·, at times, a thankless duty, Bill Kctz, a'll of the faculty, Fran big stories in the way Union put and may God permit many more Pray, the office of Dean-Emeritus herself on a wartime footing·. It exciting years of happy voluminous Garis and many, many others. became necessary to cut publica- appearances to an Gld friend, In retrospect I can say in a very tion to once a week; \Number \The Cuncordy\ on the occasion <Jf .positive way that nothing wiH ever One\ stories were no longer hard its Silve1· Jubilee. replace the happy associations I've to find, as new developments I , , \ . had with The Concordicnsis. In crowded swiftly into being; and \\ orlung ~n Tlw Concorcl-!ensls this so-called Atomic Age, The Con- each week tbe staff got a little I held a fascmatwn for me always cordiensis wHi continue, as it is II I and fur those on the staff. In thL' d - 11 t · f th sma er. . . davs of \CSS lJnion-C-12\ wllen w'. now omg so we ' o In orm e The semors who remamed \Were · \ students of the vital issues of an unable to step down in mid-Spring were shm t-handed on t~e slaff. and age when the United States can because the Junior staff was s~ I an l'd,tur had to be chlt'f-reporter, not falter as a leader in the world small and so busy. I had the un- I rc,-wnte man, proof~n-_ader, mal~e- struggle against a God-less phiJc usual p1·ivilege of editi-ng my own 1 up l'dltor and eultunalist wlled m- osophy and the struggle for the commencement issue; WP. said 10 1 onc- .. lll the:~e pte:~:nt thTe~- 1 minds of free men everywhere. goodbye_ to ourselves and from ou.r- I \\ \ ,.s 11 \ 1 a.ppy memon;·s. . \[> ,. RICHAIW E. TONTAHSIU '!6 · I late hours un Thursday mghts put- selves. By Apnl 1, I?ost of the tiag the paper \~o bed,\ the fre- o staff of The Idol, the lltc>rary ~uar- y_Ul·nt vbit~ to the \Scuttlebutt'' • • t~rl~hha~ depal~~d, ~nd t~c :dl~l~ I and ~11~. Fole~ter·~ delicicws sand- Birthday Greetings ~be la et . onucor.fletnhsls pu. foth e. i wiches, coffee anu perhaps oth••l Birthda'' Greetin•·s to the Con- . s 1ss e 0 e yea! 0 elr 1 l'ver· · \ r un I b · tl II J \ one-time rival publication. Its I '- . .~g•\ .c-\ .s 1 \' ~. , 1 e_ga one, cordiensis from Skidmore News. cover: Stanley Green's sketch o_ f! i~~n_\• till ca_m!J~s.p~llrLmdn look:\! A Diamond Jubilee celebration_. is th stat f Ch t A th . I g m on us, talun~-: the dumm) quite unusual fur a co!Iege paper e ue o es er r Ul, ·11 •t>t. to the I r , · n I-Y d · · dressed as an air-raid warden. I \ ~. \ , . J \\s 0 1 ~}.mot n- - -we are honored to have the It · t ·h , . th 1 mgs, the \p!l'nuld coopel at ton of thit teentll oldest one in America so 1s no , ow ever, ese un- v \ 1- Ch k' d th tl 1 . t h 1 L'Ian, c·s 1 an o ers at w close to us ~~at cldr~lumts anc_esd t at c;om_e I ples:;, the ovc·r-cuts in ILA.L.'s You hav~ reason to be extremely s rea 1 y ·O mm ; nor wrll rt I u--i. -!· , \ 1 H \ L •. \l · , o •.. be your mobilization-time difficul- 1 ', b c .. c ,t. 7 ·' \ · 8 ma.l ung _ ;) ~ proud of the work you are doing ties that y0u will remember, if. I tei~l 1 ~ 1 ',nof be}und co~lpfr~l·\)-- with your newspaper, and we ex- as I suspect, your editorship bas 1 ~~~n~~~tetn remains pelhaps uJC- tend to all o_f you every good wish much in common with Bob Hay- I . c • for success m the future. fn.1m lhc plague .. n. 1auy of. the ~o1:.... 1 ' Top .. Row~\Vhi.tner, De~apl,1ntt. I.. How.man, I' Uro. \_·n Dcc1.c1t, Ulllliflger. l1n,bul.i h!!'tund Rnw-t~o1!. M·H·ray. of college until Octoher 4th. \ . : h•~t \'::.~ ;'.~~n ~; 0 :'\~~\ PRE·SEASON FOOTBALL PRACTICE !! ~ ~ ~ +H ~ ~ ~ + + ~ ~ ~ + ~. <41~ •tate oifkiah tl•at it wa• d;-f \ I~· THE WEATHER · 4 :~d<•d to op~n nu the orig-inal clatr.t BRINGS OUT sn'UAD ·Of PROMISE·\~· Partly Cloudy Today: Tues- .. ncr's and mine. The things we 1 However, the• eve_nts that s~anu Sincerely, I remember best are the things that . out m my assocmtwn and edltor- THE EDITORS OF remain the same: newsbeats, edi-1 slup of _The Con col <lic·nsis in: Jude SKIDMORE NEWS I torial campaigns gag issues dance th_e untlm<:>ly death of Pres1dent ___ _ f he cowhtwn was mad<\ hm:\'-1 ll · +:+ day Fair ·•· e~~er. ~hat men from- arti,vdy i-n~J --~-- ---- _--- ,4 ..-:. f<·)tod di•t~icts were not to be ad'' CONCORDIENS_IS A.SSUMES -- I+ •:• + + ~· + ·:· 4 + ~ + <• <• + + : mllt.d m~lil Octoher ~n•l. NEW FORM AND .POLlCY Fall Condttiomng .Commenced + UNION COLLEGE ·:· Accordtn~lv thr -following -- on Alexandor FJeld on + CALENDA.R. 4 J<ttcr w\ atlt!r~••c'l to <>nrh •tu- Will Hereafter Be a Thrice-a· September 7. 1-· -· + dent a'!d ~ub·frc>hman by l'te•i· ·Week New•paper, _ --- 1+ Today. + <l~nt i<<rhrnond: __ BACK Fl~;LD LOOKS ~-, R~'\'tration tl'la« of w~u)•:· Ul\IOM COU.EGE: A LITERARY SUl'PLEMENT BETTER THAN THE LINE+ football Practtce .a·ao !'. ~1. ,; 1n\ view of the inquiries re- -- · . -- I~ Tuesday. + ..;, .,.. ~:ardi~lt. a possible -chanee of Editorjal and Business Staff Re- Weekts Seaso~ing. at Pilot Knob, + Entrance F.-.;amhi<ttion!'l: <t• til:~~e :~r.t~1:.b~~ninl \ 0 ~ •• Union._~ .::anged and s:stematized. '\ ~.:~~1:z:~· ~.:.A~\:doned + l<cgi<lration. Candidates !or ~ The Concordiensis first adopted newspaper format on September 18, 1916. The first page of that issue is pictured above. Note the football playPr in the last t·ow Gn the e>xtr<>me left in tile pi<'turP (Wittne1·). building. Philip Mosely was an in- structor in World history and left for Columbia in 1935 to continue his brilliant work in Russian po!itik. Joe Rotundo returned and read the New York Times to us in Corporation Finance and Earl Cummins gave us the day-to-day story on labor . . . • last Gfficial anniversary recogni- tion previous to this one, the 65th. The actual justification for any- one or anything-particularly a col- lege newspaper - to celebrate a 65th anniversai·y is a matter that is, perhaps, best not probed on any rational basis. The temper of the times-whether it was just before or just after Pearl Harbor I cannot quite recall-made us feel that some formal recognition of the long tradition of the Concordy was in order. The celebration took the form of nor at all flavorful of old Siwash, warmly to reflect on the genuine lift it gives us to review our Con- cordy days. I think I can speak for them as well as myself in sin- cerely congratulating you and the Concordy staff upon your 75th an- niversary. I hope that your cele- bration issue and those that follow it will give you the training and deep satisfaction that those of us, associated with the paper's 65th year, still ca·rry with us. Sincerely, DR. A. V. FEIGENBAUM '42 1943 issues, deadlines' and days 'at the i Dlxon Hyan l>'<~x-. the cxc,,llent ::>,ly colleagues on the staff of prt>ss. \ !;'ualan~~ gtven Ur.1on by Dr. _Ben- The Campus join me in extending I wish The c nco di · Jamm 1 . \\ hltaker, unt1l Pre::>1dent best wishes to the editors of the happy year and a ~ros;er~~~lson:. 1 Da,vi~s~n g1aspe~ :wit~ a firm hand Concordicnsis on the occasion of and you-a staff that writes every: the . hl lm of Umon, the s:s~Ul- its seventy-fifth anniversary. We stor to fit 1 cent~nntal Issue and the dfiCwnt are looking forward to seeing your Y • preparations of thl' Sesquicenten- Diamond Jubilee issue. GRANGER TRIPP '43 ninl Committee, a!C d la£<t, but not Congratulations on your past least, the pleasant associations achievemPnts. Hc>re's hoping that 1 946 mut without sorr.e \'erbal battle$ you have at least 75 more equally naturally> with Dave Cohen, Abbot successful anniversaries. \VeinstPin, Bob <\I Can Be Reached Sincerely yours, Heartiest congratulations to the al 'The Union Inn'\) Bush, Bill TED BECKER, EDITOR editor and staff of The Concordi- Licht, Cmig Mitchell, together with THE CMIPUS ensis for pers~vering at what may the ever present cooperation of University of Rochester Dorit sell th0 lit-tle on~ short Johnny March was the great character of the campus, offset on another level by the fabulous Duke NelsGn of football, hockey and South Dorm. Dr. Fox imported sheep for the old pasture, stage and movie actors for the Mohaw){ Drama Festival and heart-burn for the traditionalists. <The sheep fre- quently w.ere ~und baa-ing in Ger- man and Mandarin on George H. Danton's front porch.) Charles Coburn, Walter HampdC'n, Jean Muir and James Kirkwood (Dustin Farnum was unavailable) were names to conjure with those of Eliphalet Nott, William Seward. and Edward Bellamy ... a dinner followed by a Gridiron- type talie-off on the college ad- ministration and its practices. Most vivid in my mcn:ory are Stanley Green, '43, who had a major share in producing and writing the skits; Bob Hayner, '43, and Roy Aldrich, '42, who made the outstanding per- sonal triumphs in their roles as President Dixon Ryan Fox and Wendell Wilkie; and the whole Concordy staff, in its role of carry- ing the many phases of the pro- gram. The Gridiron was so well received that it was produced on several occasions through the en- suing academic year -- including Commencement. My congratulations to you and your staf and to The Concordiensis on its seventy-fifth birthday. Our columnists lit fires in the most combustible places. Bill Mul- vey (the Earl Wilson of our little stage) wore out the carpet in my brother Milt's (News Bureau> of- fice. The most exciting tidbit Bill almost dished up concerned an in- ternational figure who was shack- ing up with his secretary at the Van Curler while on a commend- able tour of duty as honorary fel- low at Union. There was Julie Bundgus <now in radio and TV) regaling the campus with his Idle Drivel and that incomparable lyricist Henry Malcolm Seider who wrote about the \staid and chaste\ girls who later became \stayed and chased.\ And Jack Malone {now at the Union-Star) who emu- lated the best movie reviewers in The Nation and New Republic ... Carl Trahman, our sports editor (now archeologist-what a fall is this.?), was Sigma Xi and Phi Beta Kappa, following a fairly uneven but discernable tradition of Con- cordy sports editors. We had great times with Harlow Delaney and his plug-chewing printers, and the grind was worth it. To you, who w.ill be recalling your times a generation sence, we gladly relinquish the good old torch. Best wishes, HYMAN A. ENZER, '38 1942 It must be a great sense of satis- faction for you to be editing the Concordy in its 75th year. I had the privilege of holding the editor's chair in what I presume was the The Concordy staff climaxed its celebration by the publication of a multi-page issue which bulged the eyes-and the pocketbooks-Gf the business and advertising. depart- ment. I presume it is still avail- able in the files. The Concordiensis and the peo- ple who put it together these days must find themselves in a situa- tion not unlike that of 1942-43. Union that year felt for the first time the full impact of World War II; classes and extra-curricular ac- tivities alike suffered as students departed, with what dignity they could muster, for the armed serv- ices. The Senior Board at that period was a relatively small one but made up for its lack of quantity by a very high quality of output on the part of several of its members who very soon there.al:ter d,istinguished themselves in some phase or an- other of war service. Sol Blechman, whose innate curi- osity and news-gathering instinct made him an outstanding Manag- ing Editor, was pivot man both for the anniversary issue and for the total year of Concordy output; as a Marine ctlmbat correspondent, Sol I was later killed in Guam. Jack Pearson, who in my judgment was one of the top sports editors the Concordy had ever seen turned out a series of sports pages which up to that time were standards at which any college newspaper could shoot. Jack went on to make an outstanding record in the Air Force; fairly late in the war, he crashed in Germany and later escaped from a prisoner of war camp. If my own reactions are any criterion, I have the hunch that the members of the staff of that era would not feel it al all maudlin Part of the class of 1943 was graduated in 1942, in Union's first \W h i t e Commencement\; B o b Hayner, one of the two editors-in- chief from our class, was among them. Those of us who remained until the rest of the class was James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Str~et GUERRA'S PHARMACY • Fountain SAVE 15'% ON FOOD COSTS - SAVE 15% Prescriptions Sundries NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Taka-out Orders Call Sch • .-6-9766 Raw, Steamed Clams • T HEY'RE both good basketball players. But if we were to judge them the way we judge telephone equipment, we'd take the small one. You see, telephone equipment occu- pies valuable space, uses costly mate- rials. Paring down its size helps keep down the cost of telephone service. Take voice amplifiers, for example. Telephone engineers put the squeeze on size, came up with a new small type. \Vhcn 600 of these new ampli- fiers arc mounted on a frame two feet \vide and clcYcn feet high, they do a job which once required a roomful of equipment. Size was cut- but not performance! This is one of many cases where the Be11 System has made big things small to help keep the cost of telephone service low . 600 Union St., Cor. Barrett St. \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM MEAl,. TICKETS--$5.75 for $5.00

6 Congratulations To The illnurnrbtruats • Union-Star =······································································~ • • • • . = • • • • • • • • ! ~e i • • i SCHENECTADY I • • • • ! GAZETTE I • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ! congratulates 5 • • • • • • • • • • ~ illnurnr.btruais ~ • • • • • • • • • • I on the occas1on i • • • • • • E of its 5 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I 75th· I • • i BIRTHDAY 5 • • . = • • • • • • • • • • : . • • ~·······································································~ FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1952 . ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllll.: - . - § § ·= a - - - - = = § 1\.. ,,· Lt k § § .,..,,- fl • • . • § - - - - = = I .Rel11x. . . I - - - - - - - - - - ! RlfJiiniJee. • • I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 5 als.o § • - - - - - - = Listen to :: - - - - - - § Miss Beth Lee's 5 - - - - s Ha.mmond Organ :M;usic 5 · - - = ·= - - ·= = - - - - - - - - - - - - s = ; at Van Curler Tap Room i = = - - - - § Late Snacks and Drinks 1 Till I A. M. 5 - - - - = = - - - - - - 5mlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ DID YOU SAY ~e,.lliee? SCHENECTADY TRUST sets the pace in Schenectady for complete....:...modern- convenient banking service. That's why t~is bank is the first choice of busy people. THE WELCOME MAT is out for YOU. Drop in any of our four offices andf\get acquainted! THE SCHENECTADY TRlJ'ST' :COMPANY Member: Schenectady County Clearing House Association, Federal Reserve System and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation anJ on I :roJe • ••• anJ greater was m1 · thirst IOTnED UNDBI AIJTHORIT'{ OP THE COCA·COLA COJiiiPANY BY Tetm,Y&OD: How hil The farther you go the more you need refreshment. That's why you'll hear folks say, \Let's have a Coke and get going.\ It's one way to get somewhere. ~ SCHENECTADY COOA-ooLA BOTTIJNG OOHPANY \Coke\ It a regTflered ltadH~~«Ir, @ 1952, THE COCA-COlA COMPANY FRIDA 0 might: '12; a~ Colleg not tr stitutE ties o:f badly progr: Speal ing· ·toe that \· rifles a among tion\ a past hi; tion ail been s may si \The tinued, sential college: thering fense sentiaii ing in tarized Outli for coc and Ul empha: \have· the' 2P' cationE Studeil institu1 manag leges i them organi: as stu• ganizir Elab ant sc shall s and ci technic trainiiJ these l of dis1 the n< be abs or, le special He membo rep res group~ to di: mobili: resour the e counti and : policie Alth nition. terizec body, and ~ educa1 Assist ing ft: ity, f. alone the cl Da1 Apr Robel Phi I is a. costs takes to m1 resen· sex. E the 1 cents· colurr Star \Yc Uni01 chest terly. Exa the f an h papel eonv:i ter}y- ing f it i: wom: eagle siste1

FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 22, 1952 7 A Parade of Stories From Past Concordys Patterson '12 Says Draft Won't Disrupt Colleg,es When Union Was Invaded THE REST IS SILENCE Oct. 15, 1940. Declaring that the \precision gage is mightier than the sword,\ the Hon. Robert P. Patterson, '12; assistant -secretary of war, told delegates to the Union College Conference on Industry and Goverment that it is not the purpose of the War Department in 1940 to \sub- stitute the camp for the campus\ but will employ the facili- ties of the colleges with a minimum of readjustment to train badly needed \supervisory personnel\ in· the vast defense pregm:tn of industrial mobilization. Speaking at the luncheon meet-(tr---------~~~~--­ ing· · today, Judge Patterson said that \today ideas no less than rifles and .tanks and airplanes are ainong the ar.maments of the na- tion\ and that the alliance in our past history between higher educa- tion and higher strategy \has not been so remote· as the uni'tiated may suppose.\ \The War Department,\ he· con- tinued, \is fully aware of the ·es- sential share that is borne by the colleges and universities in ~ur­ thering the cause of national de- · By DAVE' MARKSON Oct. 1<1, 1949 BEAR SKIDMORE-Loving you as I do, I hate to be the one to give you the bad news; but if you don't get wise in a hurry, you're going to wind up without a Union man to your name. ' And it wiU all be your own fault. If you will ta:ke my advice, you will see what you can do about eliminating those deadly beal.' trap . arrangements which comprise such a vital part of your various under- garments. If you don't, chances are that our health department will have to put Saratoga off limits. I have never bothered· to orient myself fully in regard to the con- struction or nomenclature of your girdles, C()rsets and brassieres, But I do know, however, that a fellow has to worry about a lot more than meets the eye when he becomes concerned with the unmentionables which adorn the flanks of the average Skidmore doll. THE LAST TIME I put my arm around one of you gals, I thought I was making love to a coaxial cable. Every time she moved I expected a couple of those concentl'ic high-tension wires to pop out, zoom across the couch and bury themselves between my favorite ribs. And between that and the fear of getting stabbed in the palm with a sprung steel slat, I was a nervous wreck long -before curfew time. fense and the fact that the es- sentiaiity of that share is increas- ing in geometric ratio in a mili- tarized world.\ A group of Navy V-12 trainees leaving- Mem()rial Chapel is pictured above. A V-12 unit was established on ca.mpus during the war which. transformed the face of the college Into a warlike mask. I don't have to be an engineering student to know why most of you garb yourselves the way you do. The better your architecture, the better I like it. And if you want to wear a portable fortress which can withstand the onslaught of a division of Sherman tanks, that's okay too. But why be sadistic about it? Why give a poor guy the come- -hither routine with all that lacey, flimsy camouflage, and then put his very life in jeopardy when he falls for the sucker bait? AFTER ALL, most of the guys here at Union are mild, peace loving characters who wouldn't harm a fly. It certainly is a helluva com- mentary on the state of affairs, then, when an innocent kid like me has to dress for a date with a first-aid kit in my pocket. Robert P. Patterson C- R Project Is Heralded Miss Pine's Novel Suggesting Union Arouses Flurry of SpecultJtion Here By JOliN P. LEWIS \I could take three guesses but wouldn't need the last two.\ . And how long do you Skiddies think our doctor is going to believe :that 269 guys can get hurt opening beer cans on the same Saturday night? So as I was saying, Skidmore dear, if our love means anything, you had better stop outfitting yourselves like the inside of an alarm clock that is apt to bust apart at the seams in any given moment. It makes a guy nervous. Outlining the government plans for coordination with the colleges. and universities, Judge Patterson emphasized the fact that they. · \have \no intention of taking over the' gperation of the country's edu-' cational system. Ther.e will ·be no Students Army Training Corps, an institution which took over .the management- of many of our col- leges in 1917 and 1918, converting them into cantonments and dis- organizing the. undergraduate body as students without effectiv:ely or- May 14, 1935. The publishing of Feb. 10, 1939. Yesterday morning Farrar and Rineheart, New York publishing house, released a novel entitled Beer for the Kitten by one Hester Pine, which has been a ma- jor topic on the campus for over a week. The book intimately de- scribes the life of the faculty of Quincy College, a fictionalized small eastern. school, certain as- pects of which very markedly re- \I'd be a pretty pool:' critic if I couldn't tell from the style of a b()ok who'd written It,\ said one faculty member quoting page 300 of Beer For ·the Kitten. IF YOU DO INSIST on dressing like Knights of the Round Table, riding forth in armour and chain-mail to defend your honor at all costs, you may well wake up one morning without anyone to defend it against. ganizing \them as soldiers.\ a book by Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, as- Elaborating the plan, the assist- Dr. Frederick Bronner has al- lowed himself to be quoted thus: And as I always .say, before Skidmore can hope to see more of Union, Union will have to see more of Skidmore. ant secretary of , war said, \we· sistant professor of psychology, in shall send personnel, both military . which he discusses the relationship and civilian, into the colleges and between the teachings of Jesus \I think Torn the Cop write it.\ technical schools for additional training, and we shall so distribute these men as to create a minimum ()f disturbance in the operation of the normal curriculum. They will be absorbed into the regular classes or, less commonly, grouped in special classes.\ He pointed out that the nine member committee established by representatives of 49 educational groups in Washington in August to discuss ways and means of mobilizing the nation's educational resources is designed to \represent the educational · interest of the country in determining the type and scope of national defense policies.\ Although it has no federal recog- nition, it can be \safely charac- terized\ as the most representative body capable of speaking expertly and authoritatively for organized education, he said, adding that the Assistant Secretary of War is tak- ing fullest -advantage of this facil- ity, for \Waterloo was won not alone on the playing field, but in the classrooms of Eton.\ Date Ad Pays Off Apr. 12, 1940. Investigation by Robert L. Slatterly, '40, and the Phi Delta fraternity of which he is a member has found that It costs one and two-third cents, and takes one and three-fifths minutes to make a Prom date among rep- resentatives of Schenectady's fairer sex. Slatterly derived his data. from the following ad (cost thirty-five cents) placed in the Personal column of the Schenectady Union- Star for Thursday, April 11: \Young man wants partner for Union Prom. Glenn Miller's Or- chestra. Call 4~1244. Ask for Siat- terly.\ Exactly twenty-five females called the fraternity during the space of an hour and a quarter after the paper went on the stands, which convinces the group-and Mr. Slat- terly-that oo man need go want- ing for Prom companionship when it is proved that Schenectady womanhood is made up of such eagle eyed opportunists and per- sistent huntwomen. 16\>6•9 ao91tO:) ~SaM -!?Or ·WOO \I N IBB'fB 1 OlfS about human personality, and the semble Union. One of those interviewed did not F• } }} wish to commit himself, while two Ina Ta . y· in Poll Gives President principles of modern psychology The novel includes certain situ- an.d mental llygiene, was an- ations and events which have had nounced yesterday. It is entitled such exact counterparts here in the others agreed upon specific pre-. dictions of the author's identity Hoover Big VI'c·tory Over Roosevelt which the Conc01·dlensis does not wish to .print while those malting the predictions remain anonymous, Feeling that there is convincing similarity between. Hester Pine as described on the book's jacket and that person be suspects, one pro- fessor declared that \If the in- dividual of whom I am thinking did not write the book, he or she could sue Farra.r and Rinehart for $50,000, and I would help him or her do it.\ last several years that the simi- \Psychology of Christian Person- larity seems well beyond the possi~ ality.\ Having employed approxi- bility of coincidence. For example mately 14 years in preparation, Dr. there are deer in the pasture, p~­ Ligon interprets the Sermon on the co~ks in the \botani~al gardens,\ and \the greatest tenor since Mount used as the material of Caruso\ arriving to give a free Jesus' teachings in terms of men- concert to the college community tal health and wholesome person.- through the kindness of Quincy's ality. Ethical and theological wealthy benefactor who has don- ated Blevitch House with its dining questions a1:e not considered, .only hall and lounges. those relating to strong person- Beer For the Kitten first ap- ality. peared at Union a week ago last The author has given as his pur- Thursday when Dr. Philip Stanley, pose \To bring into religion and Associate Professor of Philosophy, especially religious education the who had obtained an advance copy best principles of modern psy- the night before, produced it in chology in. a wholesome and posi- Bailey Hall. The news took little tive way.\ As a subtitle Dr. Ligon time in spreading and soon Farrar has selected \A Psychologist Inter- and Rinehart was besieged by de-· prets the Sermon on the Mount.\ mands for more advance copies. The topics discussed include: a Librarian Hebner Webb and Milton description of the traits which con- · Enzer each received one. Informed stitute Christian personality and by early readers, Mrs. Jenkins has hqw they may be developed in stocked the college bookstore. ~o children in the tei\'lls of the actual readers have given more attention mi.utre of the growing ch_ild; a dis- to the new book than those in the cussion of the nature and develop- Psi Upsilon House where it was ment of strong character; the read aloud in one ·sitting from 10 value of prayer in strong person- p.m. to four o'clock the following ality, discussed from a psycho-. morning. logical point of view; the psy- The engrossing question, of chology of fear and anger; and the course, to all those interested in causes and cure of the inferiority the novel is, \Who is Hesttlr Pine?\ complex. Bewildered by the various rumors \Religi()n has often contained that are circiing the campus and many unhealthy elements,\ de- -wishing to offer some lead to a clares the author, in stating the solution, the Concordiensis has in- purpose of his book. \It is hoped terviewed several representative that some of these will be pointed faculty members who have some out and corrected. On the other knowledge of the book. Those in- hand, religion has long been recog- terviewed seemed to maintain a nized as a powerful influnece in generally mute unanimity as to the the development of character. It authorship. should be of use to ministers who Four of the eight gentlemen in- are anxious to correlate their terviewed had read Miss Pine's preaching with. their pastoral prob- eff()rt and the others had either lems; to parents who are anxious skimmed through it or been more to give their children the best ele- or less carefully informed. All but ments of religion while at the same one were quite certain that the time avoiding the unhealthy atti- scene is set at Union; the other tudes often taught in the name of consi-dered it possible. Comments religion; and finally to young on the author were Jess regi- people wh() are anxious to find a mented: rational discussion of religious \The picture of the author on teachings in terms of the real prob- the ·back of the jacket is very re- lems of everyday life.\ vealing.\ Movie Slandering Union Withdrawn November :12, 1937. Unfavorable publicity which the RKO moving picture \Saturila;r's· Heroes\ gave to Union was formally apologized for, according to a. story in the new November number of the Alumni Monthly. · According to the ·a111mni publica- tion, RKO has not only- fully apolo- gized, but has withdrawn the film from circulation, and has offered to, on ·their own expense, Insert a letter of apology in the news- papers of all the cities in which the film appeared. Mr. Hiram C. 'I'odd and Allen H. Jackson of the Boa.rd of Trustees called upon the attorney of the producer, and tile subsequent ac- tion followed. According to the Alumni Monthly, the College \has what the lawyers call a good libel case against. RKO.\ The naDle of a \Union College\ was mentioned frequently in the film as an institution which fos- tered subsidization of athletics and which engaged in. dishonest athletic practices. It presented the practice of paying athletes to play on col• lege teams, Oct. 25, 1932. Receiving twice as;($•>---------------- many votes as his two nearest competitors, President Herbert Hoover won the Concordiensis presidential poll by a 65 percent majority. According to the final tally in the straw vote, whlch was closed last Saturday, votes were cast by, 3q faculty members and 621 students, which represents more than 75 percent of the stu- dent body and about 200 more than the total number of votes cast by any of the \Little Three\ colleges. ' the closing poll, and in the close :race with Roosevelt, he fell from six votes behind in the early re- turns to 41 V()tes behind the Demo- cratic nominee in the finals. Thomas obtained 13 per~ent of the total ballots, the largest number of the 91 votes for the candidate of the intellectuals coming from the junior class. Although gaining 166 votes in the last stages of the poll, Hoover nevertheless dropped his four to one margin over Roosevelt and. finished with a three-and-a-fifth to one lead over his competitor. The Republican candidate amassed 424 votes, receiving ab()ut 100 votes . from each of the classes and 15 from the faculty. A comparison between early returns and tile final results shows a slackening in the stampede for Hoover among the classes, while the faculty made a complete swing to present presi- dent, raising him from tie for sec- ond place to first choice. Deduc- tions as to what the three mid- week chapel speeches wa.s on the straw vote must. in any case be quite uncertain; but it appears from these results that the spe·aker for the Republican party convinced more of tile senior class and of the faculty than of the lower classes who are reputed to be of inferior intelligence and wisdom. Governor Roosevelt, more than doubling his previous total, made a gain of 68 votes to bring his total to 132, or 20 percent of the whole vote. The sharp gain in the proportion of votes cast for the Several other candidates and two national humorists secured men- ti()n in the presidential poll; one new entrant was none ()ther than Eddie Cantor who had the honor of receiving only one vote. Up- shaw, the hero of the Law Enforce- ment party received two votes, William Z. Foster, Communist Party candidate, 2 votes, and Will Rogers two votes. Landon Tops FDR In Close Voting Oct. 30, 1936. Republican Alfred Mossman Landon nosed out Demo- crat Franklin Delano Roosevelt for the Presidential election in the Concordiensis Poll f()r President taken in daily assembly a week ago today. The Kansan defeated Roosevelt by the small margil). of 44 votes out of a total of 586 cast by students and faculty. He re- ceived 267 votes to 215 for Roose- velt. Incomplete faculty returns, as compared to statistics on student preferences, showed a much larger vote for Roosevelt, who received 11 out of 16 votes. Landon re- ceived only three, and Norman Thomas, two .. The Alumni Monthly article con- cluded, \It is probably best to let it_ rest here, though the incident leaves us with a. strong feeling of resentment that Union, standing as it does among that small college group of colleges which conduct strictly amateur athletics, should have had this humiliating experi- New York governor appears most in the underclasses, who before the mid-week chapel speeches had seemed quite opposed to the pemo- cratic candidate ; it is generally known that the lower classes are easily influenced by Impassioned and fiery oratory. Norman Thomas, the Socialist candidate, made the least gains in The dark horse of the race was Major Amos Hoople, who polled 40 votes, the third highest number given to any man. Most of his support came from the \doubtful\ juniors, among whom the Hoople- for-Happiness movement first raised its head. Fourteen seniors endorsed him, but only one under- classman responded to the call of \America Must Relax.\ ence.\ l8LN asOOH N)l NWili:JA11S SOB -;:r;.· _;:;:;:;::;::;.o:;_u:;::::- c:::.;~::,~-::~:::::.::~::;::~:;_::_:;;..,1 American Foods t. G. B.ALFOUR 00. Congratulations on your 75th Anniversary LUM FUNG Restaurant Si.,ll >lliOA M:IN iHl BEST LIQUORS Fraternity Jewelers BADGES - Rl:NGS • FAVORS JEWELR.Y· LEATHER Gli'TS STATION.l!mY - P:ROGBAMS <JLlJB PINS ~ :HEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or cail PINE GROVE DAIRY AND COCKTAILS a vall 135 Broadway ~=~-~~9-5J. CARL SORENSEN .80 Hunay A~ Wa;terlord, N.Y. PHON1!1 TROY-ADAMS &-2523

8 FRIDAY., FEBRUARY 22, 1952 Concordy Pages Trace Proud Sports Mark By Irwin Barg, Sports Editor Athletic teams and contests of all types have been big news Olil the Union College campus ever since the Concordiensis began its publication in 1877. · Sports aoverage might have been on a lesser scale in the first days of the liter- ary magazine, but the young gentlemen of Union were showing more and more of an attraction to the physical pleasures of intei'collegiate cofupetition. , . Union Cotlege Traek Team. of IS92, Union College may well be proud of its record in athletic· competition. Its teams were neve·r the top oBes in. the na- except Wesleyan. 1918 and. 1919 · d · hi ld Al·] A · ·b t tl .h were also good years for the tl?n ~n Its at ~tes were se. om - meriCans, u 1roug · racketmen, wi~ning all their wmmng and losmg seasons It has always held sports on the ma;tches in the later campaign. high plane that should charactenze games between colleges. 1927 al~o showed only ol)e defeat. The ,players on Union's teams have all been men who have f<n· Umon and 1948 was the last d d h h . year that the Garnet was able to' come to Schenectady to s;tu .Y an ave soug t only exercise conclude a successful season.· or pleasure on the ball fields. The first intramural track meet Sports in Concordy ~ was held in 1877 and in 1884 the · In writing of the college's ath- Cdllege entered intercollegiate com- letic endeavors, in 1877, the Con- ance of Coach Jop Wheatley,, petition. In 1902 Union dropped. Union's swimmers were back on · ·t f th N y k st t I t cordiensis' reporters made no ef- · ou o · e · ew or a e n er- .. thP winning ·p'lth. lPct hv Burt BrH- col! g1' t \th·l t' U · L furl:; to U'\•Juueh u ~<.:n:;utwnLtli:;m · e a c < · c IC mon - eague \'\' ten and Chuck Passe, two free-. b f \1 k f f d · that .prevails on most sports pagPs ecause o ac o ree om m these days. Looking over the early styler:; whose records lasted untiL making its own schedule.\ The issues the modern reader can fully ju:ot recently. trackmen went undefeated in. 1936 realize that \football was the com- . and included in their victories one ing thing at Union.\ \In 1889 the Recordbreaker over Mass. .State College by a Concordiensis was proud to stat<: . 1()3 2/3 to 22 1/3 count. In 1948, that 'Union has made more ad- · Ken Whalen placed in the shot put vancement in football t·han any event of the IC4A meet at New other college in the :;tate with the :York. Also, that year, the Garnet exception of Cornell'.\ Following finished second to RPI in their the austerity of the times, the Con- h1Vitational meet. cordiensis was very discreet on the Lacrosse Begins subject of defeats, though victories Lacrosse found its way on ·to the were often greatly magnified. campus in 1924 and in 1929 Union's; \Thus a sports story in the early stickmen passed the season with- nineties stated quite simply that out a loss, beating such teams as 'the following men played on the Ha;rvard, Yale, and NYU. 1937 Union team at Williamstown: marked another great year for the ...... , ...... , ...... , ete., the team sports and onJN; Dartmouth could was defeated 130-0',\ spoil the team's record. Soccer Actually, intercollegiate competi- also began in 1924, but was dropped lion in football began for Union in as a sport until 1948. When he 1886, though there is· no record of ·came here, Coach Gleich had to a coach until 1890. In all probabil- begin ~y showing his candidates ity, the first Union elevens were what a soccer ball looked lilte. coached by the team captains. In 0 , __ _ 1892 and 1893 the Dutchmen won the New York League Pennant. Then, in 1905, Union suffered an unfortunate and untimely loss when Harold \Blue\ Moore died as a result of injuries sustained in a game with NYU. As a result, no college games were scheduled for the following year. In 1914, Union students saw the first of its three modern, undefeated football teams, as the Dutchmen posted an 8-0 record for the season. Werner Reiners 137 Man Hours The track team of 1892, captained l>y. Herb Fox, '93, took fom·th place in 'tne• _eighth annual New York State Intercollegiate Field Day nlll~t at Uti•ca. •Point scOl'ers for Dnio1~ 'w-ere Messrs. Ba~er, Mulligan, Bergen, a.nd ·Barnes ·(record in 16 lb. hamncr throw). Undel'eated in 1939 The Union eleven then ran the course of a typical small college team with some winning and some Gridiron Standout Sam Hammerstrom losing seasons, until Sam Hammer- strom led the Dutchmen to their sec- ond undefeated campaign, in 1939. Sam's 86 points and 1,100 yards gained during the season were the big factors behind Union's 7 wins and 1 tie. Captain Hammerstrom, playing under the tutledge of Nels Nitchman, gained the fullback berth on the Little All-American team for his outstanding perform- anc!l. Union's last great football team romped over seven opponents while this reporter was first getting ac- quainted with life on the hill. Union was led by quarterback Dm·e Strauss and lineman Brud Schaf- fer; only Middlebury was able to hold the DutchiT.en to a 14-14 ti£> on a snow blown fie>ld in Vermont. Coach John McLaughry remained one more season, then Union stu- dents got another look at the for-· mer Union \great\ when Sam Ham- merstrom returned to the campus as coach of the 1950 squad. Swimming in 1922 Though its history is not as long, Union's swimming team has come to dominate the athletic scene in recent yc>ars. In 1922, its first year, and in 1926 the GarnPt tank squad posted winning records. Then, for many years, it lived a \here today, gone tomorrow\ ex- istence. In 1940, under the guid\ Coach Ray Mullane began build- ing his fabulous teams, starting slowly, after the war and culmin- ating in last season's club, which posted a 9-1 record, and the current squad which has lost only to Wil- liams. Under Mullane's excellent guidance, Union swimmers have gone on to break every college record during the past two and a half seasons. Undoubtedly, the single outstanding performer in Foote Pool, to date, is Werner Reiners, of the class of '53, who is the current holder of every college individual freestyle record. Baseball Oldest Sport Baseball is the oldest of the sports stil! going at Union, having begun in 1859. As early as 1878 the college featured a 16 game schedule in that sport playing such teams as Fordham, Columbia, Princeton, and various local ath- letic clubs. Though th~re has .been little sensationalism connected with the Union nines, the sport has been consistant on the campus until the pr·esent date, with the execption of the 1943 season, when the war cramped a11 college sports. Union's hoopsters got underway in the season of 1898-99 with an 0-7 record, losing one game to the Watervliet YMCA 4-0. The early 1900's were unfavorable for the new sport; as the Athletic board refused to recognize the team \because they felt it wouldn't appear to the advantage of the college.\ The bas- ketball team was finally reorgan- ized in 1906, then in the 1914-15 season showed a 13-1 record and won the Northeastern League Championship. Pete Nistad took over thP tPam in 1947 and saw Jim PL•mriclt dominate the sport for that sPason and the next. Modf\rn Hare and Hound In 1878 the Hare and Hound Club waR organized \to further interest in track and running.\ The. Cross- Country Club ca1r.e into being in 1898 and grew into a team by 1908. It was not until 1924, though, that the cross-country runners were able to achieve lasting organiza- tion, but when they did, they re- mair.ed undefeated until 1928. Led by A. A. Highland in 1944, the dis- tance runners achieved a 3-0 rec- ord and Highland, himself, placed seventh in the Metropolitan Senior AAU and ran for the NYAC in the National AAU 10,000 meter run. Union's hoekey team was never ablP to find itself. First organized in 1903, it was not reeo>nized by tht> Collt>ge for some time, then lac It of ieP ar d lad~· of money kept it in and out of existence till the late 1920's. There were few win- ning RPasons during the thirties and the Rport finally bowed out when Art LawrpncP's last squa<j had eight of nine games cancelled because of a lack of ice in the 1948-49 season. Tennis and Lacrosse (Continued from Page 1) work is done by members of the senior and junior boards, especial- ly the editor-in-chief and the man- aging editor, whose job it is to get copy to the press, proof read new copy, and, often, write stories which were assigned but not turned in. Thursday evening is, of course, the time when the last essentials needed for publishing are com- pleted. This consists mainly of making up the pages, and writing headlines. When the last head- lines are written, and the headline sheets are typed with annotated references to the size, the major part of Concordy operations for the week are wrapped up. Paper to Bed Fiiday Perhaps the most glamorous, and often the most inter.esting part of working on the paper is the time spent at the press Friday. There THIS is the life the finishing touches are .put on the paper, which m,ainly are proof reading and checking that the stories and headlines are in the proper places. Work at the press is made more interesting 15y the :people we work with, Frank Chesky, the efficient and oft-time cynical ()ompositor is the one who sets up the .paper for · the press. Much <if the business at the press is conducted with Harlow D§laney, the manager of· the Ga- zehe Press, who is a gray-haite~ likeable man. How Frank and Harlow can keep their patience with the vacillating minds on the present Concordy staff will always remain a mystery to this writer. We are further in<iebted: to the other boys at the· pr:-ess, Chariey, our typesetter; Jim our headline setter; Izzy, the press-operator; and Butch, who occasionally fill~:~ in f-or Frank. of the man wlw wears Arrow Shorts:! I!erfectly at ease in action ••• ~~~ perfectly comfortable at easel .Arrow Short& .. _ Gripper fase~ners or all·elastlc waist~d· 1.25 & 1.4:5 Arrow .A.tliletic Underskirts Arrow T .Shirts ;75to 1.50 1.50 In the first years of the Con- cordiensis tennis remained on a. frater.nity scale. 1886 marked the beginning of intercollegiate com-l petition and by 1911 tpe team was ...... good enough to beat all opponents ~·~~::::::::::::::::::=::=~~~~~==::=::=::~~~~~~~ SHIR1S • 1'11$ • IPOR1a SHIR11 • UNDERWEAR • HANDKIIRCIIIIfl Seventy-five years of continuous · On be,haJ.f of the Trinity Tlipod, publication !Is an unusual record in I sho11ld lilte to cQngratulate the the newspaper field even for a ''Conc:ordy\ •On its seventy-fift:(). !CJ,n- comtnerclal daily .paper. Seventy-· nlversal'::y. We have been particu- five· years for a college newspaper· larly il!l]ltessed by the paper's con- is even more noteworthy. cern wjlh political problems and by To exist 75 years, any newspaper. its .f(}:i;tnrlght _defense of the prin- must gain and hold the confidence ciples ·Of academic freedom. of its readers by pvesenting the Keep :up the .good work! news, whether it be .. of the world' E:DWUSSHAPIRO, or of college, fairly and accurately, E:DI'T():R, TRINITY TRIPOD and boy cr.!ticizing constructively on· · ~ 1{. :;. its editorial page. The Ifal'vard Crimson, now in its That the Concordiensis has met 80th ,yea:.r, salutes its neighbor on these standards is evidenced by its a signifi~ant birthday. There is a !mig history. . ·tie between the two schools at We at the SCHENECTADY preseD.t, because your president at- GA:ZE:TTE are most pleased to con- :tended ,()UI' college. In additl<m, we gl'atu1ate our neighbor, the Con- note th.at ·union educated the cordiensis, on its 75th birthday and 'father of the· Crimson's most dis- to wish it continued success. tinguishe4' .president, Franklin ri. Sincerely, Roose-velt. Best wishes for the JOHN E. N. lllJME, JR. futut·e. EDITOR, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. Plenty tJf rotJm inside TilE EDITORS OF TilE CRIMSON Arrow· Sho·rts! Witk Arrow's fa~ous eontoured seat panel-n~ ce~te-rseam!~ Man to JUan, what's worse than s~ilnpy-cu.t shorts that bind, bunch and ride up?. It j11at can't hap• pen With Arrows - because they're .cut full in the :fu:st place, and \Sanforlzml'! (won't shrink more t:han 1%). Plain or paitern, white ·or colorB-'-get yours today I · ..drroiu Shorn. , • Grippers or all-elas!uNe~al~b~ 1.25 & 1.4:5 ~.Athletic llncler&hirts . l . 50 . .drr611' 'C-Shirts l 5 . O .7:> to .. · · · NUSBAUM'S STATE ~TI~EET .. , Vol~ 79, S-t~ ·ra Davi tee sue at the A rep showed plus, an< a succes The C to Tip ~ pro vi din 250 doil~ A prO] an intr~ between cipally pending formatic The C a delega is going Albany, Youn~ Chairt commiti help rai the stu Frank head th The s when tl: the ant is a bill animals the mE David · organiz1 PI~ Fo1 Hann; theater, tivity tl duction 13, the Hamill< \Angei ally COl being l1 HI \Ang< rememl \Gaslig: and ru1 drive h mann, and Ur as ·the Woodrl thespia wife. J: drews spector and P the caf In sum has ha1 around This connec studen1 \Angel by the college from t all the the· E Street\ and 20 Ja: The ing J< Cutty Trapie Sunda: 3 to sponsc 'ticket! Tip T \Vi of .S1 at 1 drafl regu CUSS· fron iil< wtteJ

News Supplement. Page l·S C,ollege:'s Anniversary HonorsSeaman.Knapp Founder's Day, which marks the 1517th anniversary of Union College, will be observed with special in Memorial •Chapel at 11 o'clock 1\Ionday. · Knapp Honored The festivities will be mat\ked M d ' s k by the designation of Seamon A.······ Oft· ay S . pea efS Knapp of the class of 1856 as ·a Union College worthy, .an honor bestowed annually on an alumnus for distinguished service in a , ehosen field. This subject will high- light the remarks of Henry B. Arthur, Swift and Company econ- mist, who .along with Benjamin . Fine, education e<;litor of the New York Times, and Prof. Daniel Weeks, associate professor of Eng-· lish, will ·be t:he principal speakers . at the anniversary ceremonies. Mr .. Arthur is a:Iso an ,alumnus f.rom the class of 1926. Mr. Fine will speak on ''The Future of Agricul- · tural Education.\ At the conclusion of the cere- monies, which will be open to all stu'dents and the public, honorary· degrees will be awarded to both. speakers by Dr. Carter Davidson. F.arm Bw·e'au Pione€'1' Seamon Knapp has been highly successful in the field ·Of agri- culture, and is one of the pioneers of the Farm Bureau program, which is conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture. Mr. Knapp was associated with the program for thirteen years, from 1898 to 1911. Eleven o~clock classes have 'been cancelled on Monday in order to allow· all students who are inter- ested in ;Founder's Day ceremonies, to attend the chapel. Two points credit will be given. · --.--0 'Angel Street' Cast Named Casting for \Angel Street,\ be presented at Union College on Marcil 13-15 and 20-22, has been completed according to P.rofes:;;or Donald S. Jones, liead of the Play Production class at.. the College. Three women from Schenectady. are to tak!! part in the play. They are LOuisa Woodruff, Jac::queline Roberts and Priscilla Proxlmine. The male parts. are being handled by Richard Heimann, a junior from New York City, and James Bal- neaves, an exchange sludent from St. Andrews in Scotland. · Victorian Thriller Concordy Is 13th Oldest The production, a Victorian thriller ill three acts, takes place in wndon duPing the 1890's. It received a warm reception from London and New York critics when first produced under the title of \Gaslight\ a few yea,rs ago. The ConcQrdiensis is probably Mr. Balneaves, a resident of the thirteenth oldest college news- Aberdeen, Scotland, has been as- paper in continuous· publication sociateu with the Mermaid Dra- since its inception. We say prob- matlcs Society of Saint Andrews ably because of the uncertain date University, and' the Civic Theater of the founding of many college of Cheltenham, England. Mr. papers. Ee~mann bas been v_ery active in 1 The oldest known college. news- Umon College dra,matlc pvoductiol).s t'll . bl' b' · The M. ia~i over the past three years, and he paper s 1 pu lS 1 ~g ts bas appeared in summer stock in Student, founded tn 1827. Others Falmouth Mass. · to have p~ssed the century mark ' are The Mtddlebury Campus, estab- lished in 1830, and The Daily Dart- lliumnno lluhiltt Foundecl at Union Coll~ge in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 22, 1952 PR.IC:E 10 CENTS Union Worthy Features Snow brawl Dances, Game, Parties --·-- ------· ~ Sub-Frosh Weekend Is Big Success Union's annual Winter Weekend will get underway this evening with basketball games and parties and will reach a climax tomo1·row night with a mammoth \Snow- brawl\ in Alumni gym. IFC, Council Plan Parley Campus Delt:tged The campus has been deluged with hundreds of te rnporary co-eds to go along with more than a foot of fresh snow and the weekend promises to be one of the biggest winter social events in rec0nt years. More than 40[) couples are expected at Saturday n.ight's unique dance, and Union men and their dales are promis~d plenty of Pn- joyable surprises d mi ng the eve- ning. Founders' Day Why Foundl\rs' Day? Next Monday at 11 a.m. in the Memorial Chapel, Union will hunot· one of its many famous sons. Did you k·now that the1·e are 117 of them in the Diction- ary .of .America.:n .Biography, more than a.ny other small col- lege in the country, and more than- twice as many !I.S Hamil- ton, for example-:' Aniong the 181 colleges and universities re- presented in that Hall of Fame, Union ranlts ninth. In four years ()n the campus, you have just fom· one-hour chances to get better acquainted with some of these men who started just w hae you did, at the Blue Gate. a.nd went on to genuine achie·vement in some V\'Orthwhile field. This year it is a ma~ter of human relations in the field of agriculture, on which we all de- pend for om· tht·ee meals daily, who is· to be hon.oi•ed. You will . find the three speeches, strictly limited in length, of ·real con- temporary interest. There will be an academic procession artd honorary degrees will be ·con- ferred, a sight worth set>ing. A pride in our own college history Is noth'ing to be ashamed of; on the contrary, we ought to qe ·ashamed of kno-wing so · little about the great men who have preceded .as on these very sidewalks. :Many colleges re- quire attendaYice at such convo- cations. At Un'ion the observ- Shattering a:ll records and expectations, 270 sub-fresh- men guests of the college were entertained on campus last weekend in the largest and most successful Sub- Freshman weekend since the event was begun at Union in 1~36. The Stt1dent Council; with the IFC wiH sponsor a stu- dent panel to consider the question of defened rushing next Tuesday in chapel. All issues on defened rushing will be considered at the noon-day assembly. David From Many Statt's Walrath, president of the Not only did more sub-frosh par- Student Council will preside ticipate, but they came from a at the panel. wider range o'f territory than ever IFC Delays DPCi~lon befme. Gcr.etosity of alumni gl'Oups Everyone who want!< to air his made it possible .for several out- grievance will be heard and there ~landing students from Dclawarf'. will be .qut>t>tions from the floor. and the District of Columbia to The IFC, who tentatively approvPd attend. an eight week defetTed rushing \The apparent consensus ·of period' three weclts ago, has an· opm10n was that the Sub-Fresh· nounced that their final decision thoroughly enjoyed themselves will not be reached without their through the hospitality of the Col- consideration of the panel's recom- ·le~ e, the assistance of the frater- mcndations on the suggested pro- nities, and the timely cooperation gram of deferred rushing. of the basketball team,\ said Rex Although the IFC has tentatively Moon of the Admissions Office. okayed the eight wee!{ rushing Laclt of ice at Central Park has necessitated the cancellation of Saturday afte1·noon's planned Win- ter Carnival. With the appearance of the snow, the Weekend Com- mittee has substituted a snow sculpturing contest: for Saturday afternoon. Judging will take p!ac<' between 4 and 5 ()'clock Saturday afternoon and all fratN·nities and independents arc invited to build contest entries in thdr yards or at any other place on campus. The winner will be awarded a suitable prize during intermission at the dance. Novel Inn.ovations The \Snowbrawl\ will feature many novel .innovations. Tommy DeVito and his o1·chestra will pro- vide music for dancing from 8 to midnight, and special intermission entertainment will spotlight Lar- son and Engles, magicians, and the Pastels Trio. Refreshments will be served and there will be no admis- sion fee, althClugh a donation of one dollat· is being asked from each couple to he!Jl cover expenses. Comments indicated that the sub- period, many fraternities still feel freshmen were most 'impressed by that the new program might cause <1) their wide opportunities to see . .the fraternities more financial and use the activities and facilities trouble than they have already. of the college and <2) fratet,nity Grievances advanced include: accommodations and cuisine. These 1. A highe1• cost of rushing than favorable sentiments merited about it is at present. Until the pledges 175 interviews given by the Admis- are formally pledged, the fraternity sions Office during. the weekend. will be minus the money that RPI Win Highligllt comes in from pledge meals. Therefore. the pledges won't be Rumors from hign-ups in faculty circles hint that the faculty is planning something really special for the dance. A good turnout of faculty members is expected to join in the festivities decked out in \secret\ costu.mes and all the weekend spirit. :Rumors have also circulated that a ·few members of the professorial 11.nd administrative ranks have arranged some song parodies and will entertain the students during the evening. Highlights of the Sub-fresh's billed by the fraternity until much weekend included the Dutchmen's later in the year. inspired basketball victory over 2. Rushing procedure will stay R.P.I. and President Carter David- the same only it will cover a longer son's welcoming speech, in which period. During the eight weeks of he described Union as \Miami on . defet•red rushing a house will feed the Mohawk.\ Prexy Davidson a pro~pective pledge free · meals then demonstrated his versatility more often than during the present by px·edictlng the hea,vy snowstorm period. that started during his speech and S. Incidental expenses of rush- closing the program by singing his ing will skyrocket. Transportation. now-famous ballad \How are things for pledges a,nd their dates will last at Union College.'' It was also longer with the new plan, along rumored that somebody painted the. with the other incidentals, beer, <Continued on Pag.e 2-S) telephone bills, etc. To Attend in Costumes . ance of Faun de:rs' Day is up to . . you. ,sculpting Contest OK; Sleddiu', Skatin', No Go Most fraternities are attending the \Snowbrawl'' in costume and will decorate th~ir booths in the gym in keeping -with their themes. A co-ed decorating party will be held in the gym Saturday aftet•- noon. A faculty committee will judge the booths and costumes and award the Winter Weekend Cup to the fraternity or independent group do1ng the ·best j()b. However, regu- lar sports attire will be suitable for individuals not participating in the costume contest. HAROLD A. LARRABEE, College Marshal We Congratulate The Winter Carnival in Central Plark, planned as a Congratulations on the attain- feature of Winter Weekend, was cancelled last night due ment of a chronological milestone to· (of all things!) snow. which is in itself the best comment Make Use of Sn:.ow on the quality and character of With all the snow lying around your newspaper. on. campus, the '\veekend commit- JEAN DING-LE tee decided to do something about EDITOR-IN..:('HIEF it. Noticing that most of the fra- SYRACUSE DAILY ORANGE ternity houses had aU·eady begun :,; If. :;. snow sculptures, Jay Cohn, week• Warmest C()ng;ratulations to the end chairman, announced that a editors, both ]li·esent and past, of contest would be held, judges the Concordiensi:s on their 75th an· would circulate .around the cam- commi.ttee members, and many were the subject of dirty looks from winter-hating friends. Even the gleeful COII\ittee stopped smil- ing after a while and threw their collective hands up to the heavens and cried \Enough!\ Judging From 4 to 5 Refreshments \l'ill be served at the dance free ()f charge by faculty wives. Fraternity opEn houses will fol- low tonight's ba_sketball encounters with Worcester Poly. The Inde- pendent Organization will hold their first social event Friday night in Silliman HaLl Classes, Fa.rties et al ZerVa.S '55 Elected. mouth, established in 1839. Ml!ny in '70's niversary. Good luck. · 1 pus, and a prize would be awarded :Next to enter the field were The JOHN M:. STEADMAN to the winning group at tomorrow George Zervas was elee~ p~·es~dent ()f the class of 1955 iD elections held Wednesday. Other I Amherst student, The Wesleyan FOR 'l'RE EDITORS OF 1 night's \Snowbrawl\. Fraternities and indepedents will be able to build their sculptures wherever they choose, as long as they can be found by the judges. However, _groups who build sculp- tures away from fraternity houses should be sure to have identifica- tion on them. Judging by a faculty committee will take place Satur- day afternoon from 4 to 5 o'clocl{. Classes will l>e held as usual to- . morrow morning with dates in- vited to attend. Many professors have indicated that a lenient atti- tude will be taken to \Viner Week- end cuts. . class officers named· were Don- ald Pr~ger, vice president;· Let' Mi~lsky, seeretary; ~d F. Carlton Slegel, treasurer. Those eleeted to the Student Council were Kenneth Briggs, · I!Ohn Pavkovich, James D. Brown, David Balderston, and · Argus, and The Colgate 41 Maroon, THE YALE DAILY NEWS 'I Winter Weekend events wNe . all founded in 1868. \\ 'io If. planned ·by the committee several ·1· The 1870's saw the rounding. of The \heartiest of congratulations week~ ag~ when th~ c~mpus wa~ 1 numerous .college newspapet~s. F 1 rst. from the staff and editorial board showmg stgns of spt oul:mg out fol came The .Rutgers Targum, 1870; of the Daily Pennsylvanian crt the spring. No snow was on the · :followed by The Lafayette, 1870; seventy-fifth anniversary of the ground, Union men bad shed their The Bowdoin Orient, 1871; The Concordiensis. winter coats, and even robins were ·. Harvard Crimson, 1873.; The Roch- The students and faculty of sighted reestablishing themselves .'ester Campus, 1873; and The Urtion College may well be proud· for the \spi'ing.\ The worried com- Princetonian, 1877. of a student ne\..vspaper which not mittee even saw visions of holding • only upholds the rihe traditions ·Of a February Spring Weekend-but WRUC Salutes Following the founding of The. the college, but has consistently then the snows cam·e. Jerome Frank. On ~baH of everyone COIUlOOted CoJ?cordiensis, ca~e The Yale been of the quality which should Enough's Enough with and .participating in WBU<J .I Dally News, 1878, T.?-e E;obart , ch1uacterize the thil'teenth oldest Early this we.ek the city was 1 would like to extend hea.rtloot Herald, 1879; . Tl}e Sm1tb College cullege newspil.pter in the country. snarled by some 17 inches of fluffy c»ngratulations on your 7/lth an.- News, 1879; .The Cornell Sun,. 1880;' Best of luck in the future, espe- white stuff and, as if that wasn't niversary a.nd best wisheS tor the The M.I.'I'. Tech, 1881; The Swarth- cially on your Diamond Jubilee enough, the skies opened up and fllture. more Phoenix,. 1881; The R.P.I. speCial commemorative Issue. ·dumped even more on the !nun- Sincerely yoW's, · Polytechnf<;:, 1885; The Wi\liams Sincerely, dated community in following -JOHN MOSES, . RecoJ,'d, 1881; The Haxpilton Life, CHARLES K. RUSSELL, . days. It even got to the point STATION MANA:GER 1890; The :Michigan Daily, 1890; EDlll'O):t, where students thought the whole WltUC and The Brown Daily Herald, 1894. DAIL:Y PENNSYLVANIAN 1 storm was planned by conniving With the \Sn{lwbrawl\ scheduled to end at midnight, many frater- nities have indicated ·that post- ..----------------.1 dance parties will be in order. The en tire weekend is being New Additions The campus population was incr€'ased by two this week by the birth of a daughter to D('an and :M~·s. C. Willl!un Huptle-y and a son to Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan Pearson. · Th4:' Huntlf'ys have named their <'hild, who was born early Tuesday morning, Elizabeth Merlw€'tht'>r, while tht> Pearson's son, born Wednesday, J1as boon nanted Jonathan l'earson IV. sponsored by the Student Council and is beil:lg supported by Student Tax funds. Members of the Coun- cil have donateq their services to aid in the general redecoration of the gym Saturday afternoon, while fraternities are decorating their individual booths. May Bee.Jine Tradition Jay Cohn, -weekend chairman, has indicated that low-price social weekends may :become traditional at Union if the \Snowbrawl\ can meet expenses. ·

J s. a s, d n d e e ' itamnub llubiltt I 9 5 2 I 8 7 J., .. Founded at Union College in 1877 News Supplement, Page l·S SCHEN.ECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEI:lRUARY 22, 1952 PRICE 10 CENTS College's Anniversary -· HonorsSeamanKnapp Founder's Day, which marks the 157th anniversary Union Worthy Features Snowbrawl Dances, Game, Parties of Union College, wiil l>e observed with special in Me1110rial Chapel at 11 o'clock :\Ionday. :Knapp Hon~red e The festivities will be marked M d ' S k by the designation of Seamon A. Oft . ay S pea efS Knapp of the class of 1856 as a Union College worthy, .an honor bestowed annually on an alumnus for distinguished service in a chosen field. This subject will high- light the remarks of Henry B. A·rthur, Swift and Company econ- mist, who along with Benjamin Fine, education editor of the New York Times, and Prof. Daniel Weeks, associate professor of Eng- lish, will be the principal speakers at the anniversary ceremonies. Mr. Arthur is also an alumnus from the class of 1926. Mr. Fine will speak on \The Future of Agricul- <t Cnion's annual Winter Weekend will get underway 1 thi::; evening with basketball games and parties and will reach a climax tomorrow night with a mammoth \Snow- brawl\ in Alumni gym. Campus Deluged Sub-Frosh Weekend Is Big Success IFC, Council The campus has been deluged with hundreds of temporary co-eds to go along with more than a foot of fresh snow and the weekend promises to be one of the biggest wintet· social events in recrnt years. More than 400 couples are expected at Saturday night's unique dance, and Union men and their dateti arP ptomis<·d pl••nty of Pn- joyablf' surprisP~ during- thP eVP· tural Education.\ At the conclusion of the cere- monies, which will be open to all students and the public, honorary degrees will be awarded to both speakers by Dr. Carter Davidson. Farm Bm·t'au Pionee1· Seamon Knapp has been highly successful in the field of agri- culture, ·and is one of the pioneers of the Farm Bureau program, which is conducted by the United States Department of Agt·iculture. Mr. Knapp was associated with the program fm· thirteen years, from 1898 to 1911. Eleven o'clock classes have been cancelled on Monday in order to allow all students who are inter- ested in Founder's Day ceremonies, to attend the chapel. Two points Founders' Day '\\'hy Foundf'rs' Day? ~ext !lionday at 11 a.m. in the Memorial Chapel, Union will hun01 one of its mary famous ,ons. Did you ltnow that tllH<• are 117 of them in the Diction- ary .of .American .Biography, more than any other small col- legp in the country, and more than twice as many as Hamil- ton, for example? Among the 181 colleges and un.ivf\rsities re- presrnted in that Hall of Fame, Union ranks ninth. Shattering\ all records and Plan Parley expectations, 27H sub-fresh- The Student Council, 'vith men guests of the . college the IFC will sponso 1• a stu- wel·e entertained on campus dent panel to consider the last weekend in the largest question of deferred rushing- and most successful Sub- next Tuesday in ehapel. All Freshman weekend sinee tl!e issues on clefened rushing event was begun at Union m I will be considered at the 1~36. noon-clay assembly. David From Many StatPs Walrath, president of the Nut only did more sub-frosh I->ai- Student Council will p1·eside ticipate, but they came fl'Om a at the panel. wider range O'f. territory th.an ever IFC Delays Dt•cision lwfU1e. Gei:eio~Ity of alumm g1oups i Eve 1 yone who want~ to air his made it ~os~1bk. fot. sevPral ?u~- I g 1 levance will be heal d ~md thPrP standing stude~ts fl om Del a\ at P wil·l be qu•·,lion,; f1 om the flom and the D1stuct of Columbm to Th<· IFC, who t•·ntativd~· apprO\'Pd attend. an eight week defc•ned rushing \The apparent consensus of period three weeks ago, has an- opmwn was that the Sub-Frosh nounced that their fir.al decision thoroughly enjoyed themselves will not be rrached without thC'ir through the hospitality of the Col- consideration of the panel's recom- le~ c•, the assistance of the fratc1·- mcndations on the suggested pro- nities, and the timely cooperation gram of deferred rushing. of th<' baskC\tball team,\ said Rex Although the IFC has tentatively Moon of the Admissions Office. olmycd the eight week rushing ning. Luck of il'P at Central Park has necessitated the cancellation of Saturday aft(•! noon's planned Win- tPl' Cai·nival. vVith thC' acppeat·ance of the snow, the Weel,end Com- mittee has substituted a snow sculptut ing contPst for Saturday afternoon. Judging will take plaC<' between 4 and 5 o'clock Satm·day afternoon and all ftatrrnities and independents :11e invited to build contest entries in thl'i1 ymds 01 at any other place on campus. The winner will be awarded a suitabk prize duTing intermission at tht' dance. Novel Innovations The \Snowbrawl\ will feature many novel innovations. Tommy DeVito and his orchestra will pro- vide music for dancing from 8 to midnight, and special intermission entertainment ·will Rpotlight Lar- son and EngleR, magicians, and the Pastels Trio. Refl'<'Rhments will be credit will be given. ---01--- In four years on the campus. you ·have just four one-hour chances to fet better acquainted with somC' of thN<P mE'n who started just 'l'hC'l'f' you cUd. at the Blue Gat<'. and went on to gpnuine achi<'vement in some Comments indicated that the sub- period, many fraternities still feel freshmen were most impressed by that thP new program might cause ( 1) their wide opportunities to sPe the fmte1·nities more final\cial and ust> the activities and facilities troubiP than they have already. of the collPge and (2) fraternity Gri<'vances advanced include: served and the1e will be no admis- accommodations and cuisine. These 1. A higher cost of 1·ushing than sion ft\e although a donation of favorable sentiments merited about it is at presl'nt. Until thP pledgel' I one dollar is being asked from 175 intNviews given by the Admis- a1\ formally pledged, thE' fraternity each couple to hPlp COYl'r expenses. sions Office during the weekend. will be minus the money that Rumors from hig-h-ups in faculty worthwhile field. 'Angel Street' Cast Named This year it is a ma§ter of human relations in the field of a.~riculture, on which we all de- RPI u·in Highlight comes in from pledge meals. circles hint that thf' faculty is Therpfore. the pledges won't b<' planning something rPally Rpecial Casting for \Ang<.'l Street,\ to pend for our three meals daily, be presented at Union College on who is to be honored. You will March 13-15 and 20-22, has been find the three speeches, strictly Highlights of the Sub-fresh's wet>licnd included the Dutchml'n's inspired basketball victory over R.P.I. and President Carter David- son's welcoming speech, in which he described Union as \Miami on the Mohawk.\ Prexy Davidson then demonstrated his versatility by predicting the heavy snowstorm that started during his speech and closing the program by singing his now-famous ballad \How are things at Union College.\ It was also rumored that somebody painted the billed by the fraternity until much for the dance. A good turnout of later in the year. faculty members is expected to 2. Rushing procedure will stay join in the festivities decked out the same only it will cover a longer in \secret\ costumes and all the period. During thP eight weelts of weekend spirit. Rumors have also defen·ed rushing a house will feed cii·culated that a few mc>mbers of a prospective pledge free · meals the professorial and administrative more oftE'n than during the present ranks have arranged some song period. parodies and will entertain the completed according to Professor limited in length, of real con- Donald S. Jones, head of the Play temporary interest. There will Production class at, the College. be an academic proct•ssion and Three women from Schenectady honorary degrees will be con- are to take part in the play. They fprrpd, a sight worth seeing. 3. Incidental expenses of rush- students during the evening. ing will skyrocket. Transportation To Attl'nd in ('()stwnes are Louisa Woodruff, Jacqueline A pride in our own college Roberts and Priscilla Proximine. history is nothing to be ashamed The male parts are being handled of; on the contrary, we ought by Richard Heimann, a junior from t.n be ashamed of knowing so New York City, ar..<l James Bal- little about the great men who neaves, an exchange student f1·om Heru·y B. Arthur '26 have preceded us on these very St. Andrews in Scotland. sidewalks. Many colleges re- for pledges and their dates will last longer with the new plan, along with the other incidentals, beer. VIctorian Thriller quire attendance at such convo- <Continued on Pag.e 2-S) telephone bills, etc. ------------------------------------------------- The production, a. Victorian c d I • ~ations. At Union the observ- thrlller in three acts, lakes place oncor y s ance of Founders' Day is up to in London during the 1890's. It rou. s z t;ng Contest OK received a v.arm reception from J3th Oldest HAROLD A. LARRABEE, CU P It ; London and New York critics when College Marshal Sk • ' N G first produced under the title of Sleddin' at .. n o o \Gaslight\ a few Yll!'lrs 11,go. The CQP.GQ~·diensis is probably I It ' It ' Mr. Balneaves, a resident of the thirteenth oldest college news- we Congratulate The Winter Carnival in Central Plark, planned as a Aberdeen, Scotland, has been as- paper in continuous publication 1 ' d sociated with the Mermaid Dra- since its inception. We say prob- Congratulations on the attain- feature of Winter 'Weekend, was cancelled ast mght ue matlcs Society of Saint Andrews ably because of the uncertain date ment of a chronological milestone to (of all things!) snow· University, and the Civic Theater of the founding of many college whiCh is in itself the best comment Make Use of Snow of . Cheltenham, England. ~r. papers. on the quality and character of With all the snow lying around Hetmann has been very active m\ Th ld t k 11 e •.·our newspaper. on. campus, the· Weekend commit• U · c · d t' e o es nown co ege: n ws- mon allege dramatic pro uc 1ona t'll bl' h' . Th M' m· JEAN DINGLE tee decided to do something about over the past three years and he paper s 1 pu IS mg IS e \ Ia 1 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF i it. Noticing that most of the fra- has appeared in summpr 'stock in Student, founded in 1827 · Others SYRACUSE DAILY ORANGE I, ternity houses had already begun Falmouth Mass to have passed the century mark ' · are The Middlebury Campus, estab- :(. ¥ :f. snow sculptures, Jay Cohn, week- lished in 1830, and The Daily Dart- Warmest congratulations to the ' end chairman, announced that a Zervals '55 EJected mouth, established in 1839. editors, both present and past, of 1 contest would be held, judges the Concordiensis on their 75th an- i would circulate around the cam- Many in '70's niversary. Good luck. , pus, and a prize would be awarded George Zervas was eJpcted I Th ,JOHN M. STEADJ.HAN 1 to the winning group at tomorro\\· president of the class of 1955 in i Next to enter the field were e elections held Wednesda\. Other Amherst Student, The Wesleyan FOR THE EDITORS OF • night's \Snowbrawl\. ~ ' Th C 1 t M THE YALE DAILY NEWS,. Winter Weekend events wHe class officers named were Don- · Argus, and e o ga e ,, aroon, I d d i 1868 ~ '\ 'f. planned by the committee several ald Praag-er, vice president; LP-t\ a l foun e n · ... Michalsky, secretary; and F. I The 1870's saw the founding of The heartiest of congratulations I week~ ago when the c<;mpus wa~ Carlton Siegel, trcasurN. : numerous college newspapers. First fl·om the staff and editorial board showmg .signs of sproutmg out fot Those elected to tht'> Student ! came The Rutgers Targum, 1870; of the Daily Pennsylvanian on the spring. No snow was on the C -wr th B ... ~ I f tt 1870 seventy-fifth anniversar\ of the ground, Union men had shed their ouncll were .n.enne • 06 gs, · . followed by The La aye e, ; J ,Juhn Pavkovich, James D. 1 The Bowdoin Orient, 1871; The Concordiensis. winter coats, and even robins were Brown, David Balderston, and I Harvard Crimson, 1873; The Roch- The students and faculty of sighted reestablishing themselves Jel'Onte Frank. ; ester Campus, 1873; and The Union College may ·well be proud for the \spring.\ The worried com- \ Pl·incetonian, 1877. of a student newspaper which not i mit tee even saw visions of holding • only upholds the fine traditions of a February Spring Weekend-but WRUC Salutes Following. the founding of The the college, but has consistently then the snows came. On behl!lf of everyone oounected · Cot;tcordiensts, came The Yal.e bet>n of the quality which should Enough's Enough with and participating in WRUO \DallY News, 1878; T~e Hobatt characterize the thirteenth oldest Early this week the city was 1 would like to extend heartiest Herald, 1879; The Sm1th College college nPwspaper in the country. snarled by some 17 inches of fluffy congratulations on· y~ur 75th an- News, 1879; The Cornell Sun, 1880; Best of luck in the future, espe- white stuff and, as if that wasn't niversary and best '1\ishes for the The M.I.T. Tech, 1881; The SwaJ·th- cially on your Diamond Jubilee enough, the skies opened up and future. more Phoenix; 1881; The ~.P.I. special commemorative issue. dumped even more on the !nun- Sincerely yours, Polytechnic, 1885; The Withams Sincerely, dated community in following · JOHN MOSES, Record, 1887; The Hamilton Life, CHARLES K. RUSSELL, days. It even got to the point STATION MANAGER .1890; The Michigan Daily, 1890.; EDITOR, where students thought the whole WRUC and The Brown Dally Herald, 1894. DAILY PENNSYLVANIAN 'storm was planned by conniving comm\ttee members, and many were the subject of dirty looks from winter-hating friends. Even the gleeful comittee stopped smil- ing after a while and threw their collective hands up to the heavens and cried \Enough!\ Judging From 4 to 5 Fraternities and indepedents will be able to build their sculptures wherever they choose, as long as they can be found by the :fudges. However, groups who build sculp- tures away fl•om fraternity houses should be sure to have identifica- tion on them. Judging by a faculty committee will take place Satur- day afternoon from 4 to 5 ci'clocl{. New Additions The campus population wa..'l increased by two this week by the birth of a daughter to Dean and Mrs. C. William Hm1tle:y and a son to Mr. and Mrs. ,Jonathan Pe&rson. The Huntleys haYe named thE>ir l'hild, who was born early Tuesday morning, Elizabeth 1'1:eriwether, while thf\ rear!'lon's son, born Wednesday, has been named Jonathan Pearson IV. Most fraterniti<.•s are attending the \Snowbrawl'' in costume and will decorate their booths in the gym in keeping with their themes. A co-ed decorating party will be held in the gym Saturday after- noon. A faculty committee will judge the booths and costumes and award the Winter Weekend Cup to the fraternity or independent group doing the best job. However, regu- lar sports attire will he suitable for individuals not participating in the costume contest. Refrf'shments will hP ~erved at the dance free of charge by faculty wives. Fraternity open houses will fol- low tonight's baskt\tball encounters with Worcester Poly. The Inde- pendent Organization will hold their first social event Friday night in Silliman Hall. Classes, PartiPs Pt a! Classes will be held as usual to- morrow morning with dates in- vited to attend. Many professors have indicated that a lenient atti- tude will be taken to \'Viner Weel{- end cuts. With the \Snowbrawl\ scheduled to end at midnight, many frater- nitiPs have indicah•d that post- dance pa1·ties will be in ovder. The entire weekend is being sponsored by the Student Council and is being supported by Student Tax funds. Members of the Coun- cil have donated their services to aid in the general redecoration of the gym Saturday afternoon, while fraternities are decorating their individual booths. May Become Tradition Jay Cohn, weekend chairman, has indicated that low-price social weekends may become traditional at Union if the \Snowbrawl\ can meet expenses.

News Supplement, Page 2·S Swimmers Hoopsters Cop Sixth; Break Even Sub-Frosh <Continued from Page 1-S) Idol but clue to Davidson's Delug.e n0body could locate the Idol to verify this fact !l-t last reports. As a whole, the college authot·i- By Man·in Boris !> - -- -- -- -. ties were much pleas~d with the Placement Your attentio11, is called to the , following interviews, for which you. may now sign up: Sperry Gyro-· scope Cp., 1\tat•ch ?; West Virg~nia Pulp & Paper, Co., located in Mechani.cville, March 3; Liberty ·M-utual Co., int~rviewing for claims· adjusters. March 4. AH the Gamet winter I R proceedings of the weekend, ar.d . or vour' T.n.e();\\'matz·on· the fratt>rnities were enthusiastic athletic teams were featured 1 · .1.. 4. .· A.~ I~ 1 , · -· · ovl:'r the groups they .entertained. Interviews occurring in the week.· in action cluring the paf;t I .FRIDA\', F.t;B. 22 WINTERq;. i The Admissions office modestly of Feb. 26-29 are Goodyear, Man- week. WEEKEND; Datly A:;:;embly, Dr., t<'rrned the results of its biggest day; Handy Associates, Tuesday; Another for Swimmt'rs E. A T<.hmarsh, \American Tune~ ... Glee Club Reheai·sal, OC, 7 p.m.; public relations venture as \OR so Ebasco, Wednesday; Aetna Life, _ ., .· . l\1C, noon; Varsity Swimmin\' Board of ~tanagers, HH, 7 .p.m.; f \ d b . C , l R 'lullan ·s · Fl' 1 n•· .,.. M-a 1 - 1 ·ne Coi·p Offt'cei· Pt·ocur·ement ar an egan planning a larger Wednesday; ·Factory Mutual, Thu:rs- lla<:l .. ay ••. · .':.·· .· '.·\' Ur.ion v,;·. Hamilton, at Clinton.; Dutchman madt' 1t ><IX \ t~tones 1 4 _ 30 p.m.; Vaisitv Basketball Union Interviews, SH, j,Q a,m. to 4 p.m.; W~ekend for next year. Jack day; Upjohn, Thursday; Columbia in ::,en·n sta·I ts b)· uvc•I·poWt'n~g vs. \\'oicPsler ·Polyt~chnic Insti- Placement Medint-;, Jur.ior class, Peru-son and Rex Moon will wei- Gas System Service Corporation, the Coa~t Gua1·d Academy 44:-1. tute, Gym, s: 3 o p.m.; Junior Var- EE 22, 7:30 p.m. carne any serious criticisms and Rriday; tJ. s. Rubber Co:, Friday •. at New Lor~on Sa-turday. Lea?mg sity Basketball, Union vs. Cables- TUESDAY, FEB 26-Daily Assem- recommendations. Plain Joe Col' ~he· Ga.rnet m capturmg stx firsts l-ull. Gym. 7 : 30 p.m.; BPta Eta Up- bly, Program by Student Council, lege was deeplr impressed ·by the You arc reminded that Up john m ntnt• events wctc• \'VC!'ne-r RPm- :-;iJun. ;:o..Iess Hall, ~;. 12 midnight· In- MC, noon; !liarinc Cot·ps· Officer number of Sllb-fl-eshmcn who had has a meet-ing on Wed. evening., <'1,; and Dtck Hartmann . Retners. 1 UL'P'·.ndents._ :5Jllmmn Hall, 7 _ 12 ;.nid- Procurement -Interviews, Silliman won giant athletic letters and Feb. 27 . in the Old Chapel. m addition to wmnmg the ,;txty night; Miami Triad Dane£>, Mo- Hall, 10 a.rn.-4 p.m. 1 hoped ·this talent would not be yatd flee,;tylt!, set a new college I hawk Golf Club. WEDN.t;SDAY, FEB. 27-Giee Club squ~ndPred on studies next year. Men interested in Westinghouse, I ecord for till' 100 yard fn,estyiC' I Reheat·sal,. OC. 4 .. _ 30 p-.m... Place- Askt d to com_ ment on humorou£ s \Tl'RD .,. F d General -Railway Signal, and Air with a tim<.• of 5-1.8. The old record • ' \' , EB. 23 WINTER . ment Meetin!(, ThP Up john Com- ~n .• outstandmg events of this of 04.9 WUb establbhed in 19·10 by I \'\'EEKE;\;D; C'la>se' as usual pany OC 7·30 p m AlEE < Sch' )<'fii s Sub-Fteshman \Vcekend Rex Reduction Co. are ask<'d to hidicate Chuck Pa::;SL'. Reiners has now I 1 r:u\~ts Wt>lcom,· to classes>: Vnr- nect~d:,• Se~tio~)· EE 22 'a p m'~ M~on summarized, \The whole theit· interest. Dates of interviews snapped and holds seven of thl' tl'n ><ity Swimming. l'nion vs. Roch- Vat·sity Basltetba:u, Unio~ vs. H~~ thmg was a l'iot.\ 1 will be announced later. Union swimming marks. I PstPI. \t Roche•t••r. 3 p.m.; Theta bart. at Schenectady, 8:30 p.m.·, Delta Chi, Hanna Hall; Beta Eta Sophomore Hartma?n in tht' 220 Fp:-;ilon. l\1ess Hall: \Snowbrawl\ Junioi· Varsity Basketbwll, Union FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1952 a storefu'l of :Fine Gifts to send home backstroke equalled his own recorc! in Gym. 8-! 2 , Tommy DiVito and vs. Albany Business College at of 2:26. In the other events: Hai·t-1 his OrchPstra. I-nfot·mal, do~ation Schenectady. 7 p.m.; Union Colleg~ mann. ~1uh1Nt. and Stark won the I at dom. Glet• Club ConcE>n. Benefit Sch0- medley relay; Fink and Duffy fol-j . • . . , . , nectady Heart kssn., Admission low 0 d Parsons of the Coast Guard :c-;{;NDA \. l' .t;B. 24 · Sunday Serv- $1.00, (The Glee Club is giving this ac 1 -oss in the 220, Phil :Metzger. hit- ice, Preachn, Dr. Raymond F. Me- concert without charge and the Best Wishes on Your 75th Anniversary ting his best form of the season, Lain: Gt•toei-al Director of the Com- college is furnishing the chapel j captured the dive with 91 points, rmsstun on Higher Education of without chat·geJ. t GPismar and Muhlert finished one- the National Council of the THURSDAY, FEB. 28 Daily As·~ two in the breaststroke, Jim Far-, Churches of Ch!'ist in the U. S. A., sembly- World Citiunship SC!'ies, I JT•ll closed fast to tal'e sPcond in I \\Vhat Can th\ Righteous Do?\ Spealtc>r. James Balneaves, Guest : thP 440 behind Wilson of the Acad-1 MC, 11 a.m. Studmt ft'om Scotland, MC, noon; I emy, and the Coast Guard relay MONDAY. FEB. 25-FOUNDER'S ASME !Schencoctady Section!, CE I team of Brock, Culberston, Rounse- DAY, 11 a.rn.-12 noon, honoring 106, 8 p.m. I ville, and Parsons swam away with Sra.man Knapp of the Class of the 400. 1856. Pat ticipants, Dr. Benjamin Rally Downs BPI Fine, educational editor of the Staging a terrific comeback and rally in the second half, the Union five downed RPI het·e Saturday 68-61. Trailing at the beginning of the third period 38-27, the Dutch- men netted 24 points the next period while holding the Engineers to a bare 10. As an overflow ct·owd raised the roof of Alumni Gym the Union club lead by the sensational shooting of Glenn Kinns, Joe Sutka and George Batkiewicz and the sharp ball-hawking. of Frank Parisi, ran R.P.I. into the ground. In the opinion of coach PPte Nistad tho· major factor·s in thE' Union win were the cxcelh,nt foul· shooting, Union's ability to control the boards and \the refusal of the team to be beat.\ Kinns continued his s<'nsational scoring spi·et>. as he lrnd thP <:ru n .. t hnr>p\t •r~ with ~:; counters. j After .J..!utning to action again on \\'ednP~dny. thf' Dutchmen ·lms- : k<•tball \lllad· WPI ,-. outcla~~··d by I a >trong T1 init-y five. Ftnm thP ' Recond quarter on the Garnet wetc, nt>vcr in tho· ~- amo• ns Charley 1 Wrinn hoopPd Hl pDints. Kinns, / Murray. and Parisi. improving with . ~very gamP. led thP <:n I'nf't in a 1 lost cause -.-ith lR. 14. and 15 point• respt>ct i ve ly · The jnyn·.· clubs fHI ,.d poo1l~ the past WCt·k. Th,, baslietball tt\am ' droppPd two deci~ions, on!' to R.P.L ~8-f;2. and tiH• othPI to Trinlt\' 66-52. • () Announces Prizes i Thf' Van Orden prize is awarded 1 annually to a mPmhPr of the Fresh- man class for excellence in class 1 1 work, and especially for an essay to be written nn an as~ignPd sub- , ject: 1 The subjPcts offerer! thiH yPaJ· ! afford two' choicPs: ' (a) A RE-APPRAISAL OF F'. SCOTT FITZGERALD OR •2• THE WOHLD OF WILLIAM FAULKNER The <'ssay should not be Jess than 1 2\i00 words in lerg.th, and in using I printed materials. the essayist I l'lhould not rPly too hPavily on lengthy quotation. Books are listt>d I by the library under the authors concern<\d and hence no bibliog-1 raphy iR necessary for this an- nouncement. The selpetion of rna- 1 t~1·ials is one of the responsibilitiC's : of' the essayist, who should attach I his own bibliography. i CompPting ~ssays must be de- livered to th<' Chairman of the DE'- pn.rtment of English not later than Tuesday. April 15th. Each must be signe(l by a pen name, and the true name of the writPr ;;hould rot bf' revt>aled on 'the manuscript, but placPd in a sealed envelope accom- panying the Pssay with the pen namE' of the author on the outside. The All!'n prizes ar·e awarded to Seniors for essays upon subjects picked by the competitors, as an- nounced in the catalogue. The Allen essays, also, must be sub- mitted to Professor Blodgett on or before April 15th under the condl• tions mentioned above. \New Yorl' Times,\ Hr. Henry B. Arthur, '26, Chief Economist of Swift and Company, and Prof. D. Richard Weeks. Classes suspended from 11-12 noon. All stud~nts are u1·ged to atwnd. 2 points crt>dit; FRIDAY, FEB. 29-Dai!y Assem- bly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, assisted by Mrs. Anita Meyer, pianist, MC, noon; Faculty Men's Club, Hale House, 6:30 p.m.; Varsity Basltet- ba:Il, Union vs. Hamilton at Clin- ton, 8:30 p.m.; Junior Varsity Bas- ketball, Union vs. Hamilton at Clinton, 7 p.m. .. SCHENEcTADY. N.Y. 1•1 .SAT STRE!T rr CoJlyright 19 52, L1oo•TT & MYERS ToDAcco <A FRIDAl ·1 POl H -WI! Be epid fron of t net:t beet !.., Jron 1~· ·,. favc of e ll h'!-d <.\)ld M\d< 'Yhe -eveJ !.;:<;.! mit ~ •. '. . A \ Jett l: *l) <\<fn ... -~.· 'I issue '(Witj build in structo for Co his b politi~, read tl Corp or Cumm story < Joh:il charac anoth~ Nelson South sheep movie Dram~ the tr~ quentl man ! Dan to Co burl Muir! Farnu name> Eli ph! and E Our most< vey (I stage) brothE fice. almos -ternaj ing u Van< able j -low : Bun d. regali Drive lyric~i wrote girls and (now lated The l Car (now this? Kap{: but ' cord~ timef his I= grinc To your glad! torcl: It facti 'Cam the: chai

News Supplement, Page 2·S Swimmers Hoopsters By Ma·n·ln Boris ., .-\H tht> Canwt wintt•r \ -,;v athletie team~ \\'l'l'l' ft•ntmetll _cr or Cop Sixth; Break Even Your· Information Sub-Frosh I Placement (Continued from Page 1-S) YOU!' attention is called to the Idol but due to Davidson's Deluge . following interviews, for which you nobody could locate the Id 0 I to ·may now sign up: Sperry Gyro- verify this fact at last reports. scope Co., March 3; W~st Vi!·g~nia Pulp & Paper Co., located in As a whole, thL' college authori- Mechanicville, March 3; Liberty ties WPt·e much ph•ased with the· Mutual Co., intrrviewing for claims· procL•edings of the weekend, ur.d . adjusterf', :..I arch 4. the frat l'l'ni-lies were enthusiastic 1 O\'PI' th<' groups they ••ntrrtainecl. in HClion rlurincr.~ thl' ]Ja~tl 'Tl Ad FHIU..\ l, FEB. 22 \\' J;:>;TER~> _ 1 1e · missions office modestly Inle!'virV.:s ucctit·t·ing in the •Nee!' · of Feb. 26-29 are G0odyea1·, Mon- week. I \\'~:EKE:-;D; Dally A~~··mblv Dr ; tNmt•d th,, results of its biggest .o\uotht•r· for Swillllllt>l'S E. A. Td-tmar>h, \.r\nwricah 1;u'nes,': Glee Club RehL•arsal. OC. 7 p.m.;' public relations ventUI·p a·s \OK so I ~[(_' noon V·u ·t S . . Hoard of :\Ian agel s, HH, 7 p.m.; f . ·\ d b . l'<>d<'h P· y :\lullan···,.. \Finne; • • · ' '. ·~r y wtmmmg, Marine Coq) Offk~r Procurement ar an egan planmng a larg-Pr .. '\. • . .· .• • .· ~ 1 Lr.wn \'· Hntmlton. at Clinton. w k 1 f day; Handy Associates, Tuesday;, Ebasco, V\Tednesday; Aetna Li.fe, Wednesday; Factory Mutual, Thurs- day; t'pjohn, Thursday; Columbia l'ut• hm.tn .n.Hlt· It ,..IX \ll tuiJ('. , 1 311 p.m .. Vat;;itv Baslietbal! Union lnt-erviewo, SH, iO a,!l!. to 1 p.m.; <'f' '<'nc or next year. Jack in ~··v,.n ,..tal t,.. by .,,·,·tJ><>Wt'!In,c;. ,·s. \l'ul~t·stet· ·Polvt<'chntc Insti- Plac•·mcnt :\[,'('ting. Jur.ior das::-, 1 Pe:uson and Rex :\lo~n wiH wei- Gas System Sel'Vice Corporation,· t.h<' Coa\t Gua1 ~ Aeatlc·my H:21. II t uh•. trym, s _ 30 p.n;.; JunitlJ· Vai·- TEE 22, 7:30 p.m. . come any sc•rious criticisms and Rriday: u. S. Rubber Co., Friday .. at :-;,.w L<>r.don Satut·day. Leachng sit)' Baskt>thall. l'nion \'!'. Oob!Ps- l.'ESDAY, FEB 26- Daily Assem- l'N'ommPnclations. Plain Joe Col- th,· t;atllt't m L'aJ>!UII~;.; ,;Jx fir,!> !lull. (;ym. ' 31 j .p.m.; Bo•ta Eta L'p- bly, Prog~am by Sttl(h•nt Couneil,; lege was deeply impressed by the You an· 1eminded that Upuohn · Ill nin•· t•\ent,; \\'L'I<' \\PI tl<'l' R .. m- 1 ,J!un, :, 1 ,,~, Hall. x- 12 midnight; In- MC, noon; :\1arirw Colp> Officer numbc>r of stJb-fn~shmen who had has a nteeting on Wed. ••vening, •·I,.. '\'d Dtl'l< !hut mann f{..tnt•J'>, i dt·pc·ndt·nt.s, ..;illHnan Hall, 7 _ 12 mal- Procurt>ment Intet·vit•ll'\· Silliman: won giant athletic letters and F~b. 21 in the Old Cha·p<>l. in addition to wllltliq~ till' ~Ixty 1 night; ,\lianu Tnad DanC'P. :vro- Hall, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. hoper! tilb talent would not b\ FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1952 a sto-reful of Fine Gifts to send home _vat d t '\e set a new. coll<•g,. ' hawk Gulf Club. 'WEDNE:SI!>AY, I<'EB, 27 --Glee Club sq.uaJHJ,.r<·d on studies next yea,J·. Men interested in Vi!estinghouse, ,,.,.,,Ill fui ttl•·_ 100 v:utl 11.-l'stvlt· . ' , Rehear:-;al, OC. 4:30 p.m.; PlacP- A:slwd to con.tment on humorous Gener·al Railway Signal, and Air.· with , 1 l!Ill<' of ui.X i'he old l<'l'~lll: ~.~Tl'I_OL~Y. Fl·;B. ~:l \\ 1:'-:TbH. nll'nt Mt>etinc, Tht• U 'olm Com- and. out::.tandrng events of this . . . .. 1 . !'l ,._t,tbli;,.ht><l 111 Hl!l1 bl \\ F.EI~F.:--;D, C I;~_.,,., a:; u~uall , , OC -. 3 · PJ _ _ y••ars Sub-Fie;;hnwn \\uei'end RL·X RNlttctwn Co. me ask0d to mdrcate 0 \· \\.b ~ ·I I' t· . l l pan~. , 1. 0 p.m. AlEE 18ChP-I•f . ' 'c' th .. Ch::clt Pas;;,·. Reiner~ has now 1 ' • 1 1•·-' \ .. to <' a;;,;t·~ >; \'a1- 1 n •ct .>. \ 1 . l EE 22 · 8 .. ·' •oon ~ummanzed. \The whole e11· Int,•n•st. Dates of intrrviews . t . S . . , l' . < au~ ..,ec IOn , , p.m., . tJ . , I KlldJ>!J~tl and h~dti Keven ,,r th~ tPn I si) ·\IniniiH\. nwn vs. Roeh-l Varshv Basketball U ton ' H- I,~I-In~g~\-v_a_•~a~~-io_t_.·_·~~~~~~~~,~~~H:l~b:e~a:n:n:o:u~n:c:e:tl~la:t~e~r:·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ enJ(111 ~\\\itnining rnar·k::;, t\.. ·Jt Hochc\-:t 3 p.nl.; ThL'\ta' b . ·. ' • n \S. 0 I ' ' ~ Ddta Chi, Hanna Hall· B<•ta Eta I alt, \t. 8chenectady, 8:30 p.m.; I· SOJphon1ot·e Hartnmnn 111 tlw 2:!111 1 • 1 ,,ilt>n :\h• ., HaH. \S~n 1 . 1 ,. Jumor Val'RI'ty Basketball, Union i I d h . d' · · · \· · ow 11 aw vs Alban'' Bu · C 11 t · backst 1 ok<• equal \ 1s o\\'11 recot· , m fivm 1<-l ~ Tommy DiVito 1 • · · , smess o ege a 1 . of 2 ·26. In th£> other events: Hart-! his OrciJt•slJ~_- 1 lnf<wmal do' ~nc Sclwneetad)', 7 p.m.: Union Col:lege mann, ~luhi<'I't. and Star!{ won the• ·at. dooJ·. · '· '· · na Ion t;Je,· Club Conc<•rt, Benefit Scht•-1 mrdlev rt'lav: Fink and Duffv fol-' 1 nectady Heart Assn., Admission · IO\\'<'d. Parsc'ins of the Coast Guard Sl':'; DA \'. Ft.:B. 24 ::-lunday :-5t•rv- $1.00, 1 The Glee Club is giving this 1 aPJos~ m t-hP 220. Phil Metzger, hit- I<'P, PIPal'hCI, D1. Rarmond F. !.\IIC'-1 concert without chargt• and tlw. ting iliR hPst form of the ~c·ason, Lall!. Gt•rerai Ditect<lJ· of tht• C'om- college is fut·nishing- th1· chapPI, C'aptu1·e 1 I thP dive with 91 points, mission on Highet· Education of without cha1·gel. (';-pj,..m;u and Muh!Prt finishrd one- , 1 · t~Ie :--:ational Council of tlw THUHSDA1£, FEB. 28 Daily As- two in the breaststroiH•, Jim Far- LhUI l'he\ 01 Chnst In thL• U. S. A., sPmb!y \\'orld Citizt>nship SPI ies, n·IJ doerd fast to take s<'C'ond in' \\\'hat Can tho• Righteom< Do?\ Speakt>t·. James Balnpaves, GuPst · th•· ·HO behind Wilson of the Acad-' MC, 11 a.m. StudPnt from Scotland, MC noon. 1 emy, and th<> Coast Guard relay I MONDA\', f'Jt:B. 21>---FOCNDER'S ASME tSchenPctady SPctio~I. CE • t:am of Brock, Culberston, Roun~e- D:\Y, 11 a.m.-12 noon, honoring 106, 8 p.m. vtiiP, and Parsons swam away wtth ,S.·nmnn K_n.apJ) of the Cla.ss of FRIDAY FEB 2 , · • 9 --Daily Assem- 1 the 400. 1856. Pat tJCipants, Dr. BPnJamin bly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, assisted by I Rally Downs RPI , Fine, <'ducational editor· of thP Mrs. Anita Meyer, pianist, MC, Staging a tenific comeback and' \New Yo;I> Tim;s,\ Hr. Hc~t·y B. noon; Faculty Men's Club, Hale I 11 . th d h If th U - Arthm, 26, Chref Economtst of House, 6:30 p.m.; Varsity Basket- ra Y 111 c secon a • e moTh Swift and Com an· d P • f D b 11 U · I five downed RPI here Saturday . P ~. an 10 · · a • mon vs. Hamilton at Clin- · 68 _ 61 . Trailing at the beginning of Rtchard Weeks. Classes suspended ton, 8:30 p.m.; Junior Vat·sity Bas-I' the third period 38-27, th(' Dutch- fr~rr; ll- 12 noon. All s~Udt>nts a_n' ketball, Union vs. Hamilton at men netted 24 points the next UI Kt d to attend, 2 pomts er;>dit; Clinton, 7 p.m. i period while holding thP Engineprs to a bare 10. As an overflow ct·owd raised the t·oof of Alumni Gvm the Union club lead by the sens.ational shooting of Glenn Kinns, Jot• Sutka and George BatkiPwicz and the sharp ball-hawking of Fmnk Pa1 i>'i, ran R.P.I. into the ground. I In th<' opinion of cOaC'h P..te Nistad tho· majo1 fnctms m the 1 Union win were the Pxcdknt foul ' shooting, l'nion's ability to control I the boardH and \the r<•fusal of the • team to b<' beat.\ Kinns continut•d ' his ~Pr.~=mtinna1 scoring spreP. as hl• ! k:-td thP f;aJnf•t htlf)p ... tPJ .. \\ith :2~1' counte I~. Aftet ,;.dt:1ning to action a:,.::un on \\'o•lln•·,da\', th•· Dutd1men ha~­ J\,•thall -.qurui Wf'l!t• outcla~~~·d },,. a •trong Tt inity fi\(' F1nm tl>;, · ~econd qu:~.t·tt~z on thP CiarnPt \VCI '-' nP\'er in t h·· c amo· a\ Chmle~· : \Vrinn hoop• d 19 p~>int s Kinns. Murray. and Pat i\i. improving with' •·vPry gam\. kc! thP !';;nnd in ;t, lo~t <'a use \ith lR. 14. and 1!'\ point· rrl'p<>ct h·0ly T!Jt• ja)H' club,; fai<d J>Otill) the pa«t we..Jc. Tho• basketball (,·am droppPrl two tlt•ci,;iono, on<' tn R.P.I. !'·l<-~2. and till' othP1 tu Tt·inlt' 66-52 . (J Announces Prizes Th<• Van Orden prizt• is awarded annually to a nwmhPr of the Fresh- man class for PXCC'Ilence in class. work, and <'specially for an essay : to be written nn an assignPd sub- 1 ject. The subjr'C\~ offprerl this Y<'tU affot·d two chokPs: t ll A RE-APPRAISAL OF F. !-;C'OTT FITZGER.\LD OR •:.!• nn: \'I.'OHL!l OF WILLIAM FAULKNER The ••smy should not bP less than 2~00 words in lergth. and in using. p1·int <'rl matf'I'ials. the essayist 1 \hould not rdy too h<'aViiV on !eng! h)' quotation. Books are ·IistPd : by the library und.-,r the authors· concern~·d, and hPnce no bibliog- 1 raph:y 1~ necessary fol' this an- : nouncement. Thr Sf>lP<'tion of ma- IHials is onP of the responsibilitlr-s. of' the essayist, who should attac-h: his own hibliottraphy. CompPting pssays must be de- ' liverr>d to th<> Chainran of the D<'-1' partment of English not later than Tuesday, April lfith. Each must be signed by a ppn name, and the true I name of the writf'!' ~hould rot bP 1·evPa.lrd on the manuscript, but . placrd in a :-ealed envelope accom-1 panying the PSsay with the pen namP of the author on the outside.· The AIIPn prizes are awarded to Seniors for Pssays upon subjects picked by the competitors, as an- nounced in the catalogue. The Allen essays, also, must be sub- mitted to Professor Blodgett on or before April 15th under the condi- tionR mentioned above. .. Best Wishes on Your 75th Anniversary SCHENICTADY • .N.Y. 147 .:JAY STR!IT Copyright 1952, LtccrTT & MI'ERS 'I'oa.cco C<~. FRIDAY, TJ 1 voLt POll HI Men WILl Be< ep1de frum of th necta llecu fr~.,~m lege hwor of co It had I U11tl : 1;_.;dNJ 'f'ho e\~er. f,·,te mitt-t Ac Jette' rhnt <l~nt . .;, ~tar · .. ~ .... :::(tat ~;:.__ Tl issue (Witt1 build in~ structor for Col his br po!itik. read th Corp or~ Cummi1 story o Johm char act another Nelson South sheep f movie Drama the tra• quently -man a: Danton Coburn Muir a Farnur names Eliphal and E< Our most c• vey (tl stage) brothel fice. ~ almost ternati ing UJ Van C able t< low a Bundg regalir Drivel lyricis• wrote girls and < (ll.OW • lated The :N Carl (now this.?) Kapp~ but d cordy times his pl grind To your glad!;) torch. Itr facti< Cone• the p chair s.

' Swimmers Close Season Tom morrow Vol~ 79, No• 15 Student Council O·K's ·Tax Post to Griffith Davis Griffith was appointed to the Student Tax ·Commit- tee succeeding John Kennedy who graduated last Janua·ry at the Wednesday meeting of the Student ,Council. A report on the ·~snowbrawl\ @>---------~----~ showed that there was a $150 sur- · plus, and the dance was considered Union S~·lls a success in all ways. The c:::~ ~t~o~c~ive $15o. Its Holdings to Tip Tower for his jazz concert providing Tip can raise the other 250 dollars needed to finance it. A proposal by Siena college that an intramural program be set up between Union and Siena, prin- cipally in basketball, was tabled pending the receipt of more in- formation on the proposal. The Council also decided to send a delegate to the mock senate that is going to be held in Albany, by Albany State College on April 18th. Young, Uonet Blood Chainnen Chairmen for the blood bank committee were chosen in order to help raise blood: donations amcmg the students. Joseph Honet and Frank Young were appointed to head the committee. In Brooklyn In one of the largest Teal estate deals in the boNugh of Brooklyn in many years, the Prudential Life Insurance Company purchased from Union College, for a re-ported 16 mi-llion dollars, the com- mercial blocks bounded by .Fulton, Hoyt and Livingston streets which comprise the holdings of the Abraham and Straus department stores. Held Property Fom· Yea>rS ,, littutllU~ Founded at Un.i&n ,College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., Flt.IIJAY, 'FEBRUARY 29, 1952 ,Founder's Day Notables Photo by O'Grady Shown above are four of t.he ()articipants in Founder's Day exercises held Monday in Mern<Jrial ChapeL From left to right: Prof. D. Richard Weeks, Henry E. Arthur, Benjamin Fh1e, and Dr. Carter Davidson. The J:mim.tlng in the center is of Seaman Knapp, Union Worthy. Founder's Dtty Speaker Attacks Farm Control Hell Week Starts Monday PRICE 10 CENTS Cassidy, Tower Top Publications John J. Cassidy Jr. and Walter T. Tower Jr. were elected editors of the Concordiensis and the Idol, respectively, in a Publications Board meeting held earlier this month. They succeed Donald E. Schwartz and Edwin H. White, respec- tively. . Was Managing Editor New Ideas Cassidy, from Saratoga Springs, is a junior, and has been on the Concordiensis staff for two and ·on Rusht·ng one-half years. He has served most recently as managing editor and previously as news editor and Dl •scussed sports editor. He is a member of Psi Upsilon fraternity. Tower, from Newton, Mass., is A three man panel met in also a junior. He has been on the Chapel Tuesday to talk over Idol staff for the past year, most the merits or demerits of de- recently •as an editorial associate. d h . D 'd W 1 He was formerly on the staff of ferre rus mg. aVI a- the Concordiensis, a member of the rath, George Exner, and Ger- Mountebanks, the Rathskeller, and ald O'Loughlin w e r e t h e the Junior Prom committee. He members of the panel and belongs to Phi Sigma Kappa fra- h t t b d . ternity. W a was 0 e a SOUR 1ng Schwartz, a senior from Mount board for different proposals Vernon, has served as editor of and questions turned out to the Concordiensis since October. A be a three man talk on the member of the staff for three and so-called \r 0 t a t i 0 n meal one-half years, he previously served as managing editor and sports The short meeting was climaxed when the Council voted to support the anti-anti-vivisection bill. This is a bill which. allows people to take animals out of pounds. With this the meeting was adjourned by David Wallrath, president of the organization. ---•0--- Most of the 16 million dol:t'ars went to the paying of the mort-· gages Union had ta~en on the property. Union bought the store· four years ago for its endowment fund, in the type of action which became very popular for colleges later on. This type of business transaction, where leading depart- ment stores found it profitable to give up their heavy investments in land and buildings and have these funds available for cash and mer- The. crux of the American farm problem today is govern- ment management from W ~shington, declared Henry B. Arthur; Union '26, talking at :C~eremonies held Monday in Memorial Chapel celebrating- tbe 157th anniversary of the founding of Union College. plan.\ Questions by Lawrence editor. He is president of the Pre- Levine, John Pranke and Law Society, a member of the Walter Tower were the only Board of Managers, the Idol, the ones thrown out to the .panel. Cosmopolitan Club, Delphic So- ciety, and Hale Club. He formerly Pros. and Cons Discussed was a member of the Publications Exner, a senior, attended a con- Board, sports director of WRUC, · ference at the University of Ver- and on the executive council of mont, where deferred rushing was the Mountebanks. He belongs to discussed, and Union \seemed to Phi Sigma Delta fraternity. Degrees Conferred be the only college in the confer- Editor Since Apxil Mr. Arthur, a Swift and Company· p f R• k ence that didn't have some system White, a senior from Schenec- economist, and Benjamin Fine, edii.-· . ro . IC' ey of deferred rushing.\ He thought' tady, has served as editor of the Play Readies For Opening . chandise led colleges to buy the property' and then lease it on a long term lease back to the former owners. Many <Jolleges later .fe>llowed the cation editor of the New Y{)l'H some system should be set up, as Idol since last April. He also. Times, were presented honorary de-:. T! . alks on Art it had proved. so practicable and played fl'eshman football and was grees at the proceedings. In addi- successful in many other colleges. a membel\ of the Publications· tion, Seaman A. Knapp, class 1>-f. David Walrath, at this point, sum- :Board. Hanna Hall, the Union College same pattern. This sale of four theater, is the scene of great ac- years ago, where Union bad ac- tivity these days as the play pro- quired the property from the A. duction class prepares for March and S. holders, marked the first 13, the opening night of Patrick exchange of real estate by the Hamilton's 3-act Victorian thriller, company in 85 years. 1856 was proclaimed a Union George Rickey, nationally known med up the pros and cons of De- The Publications Board, at its Worthy for his agricultural contri-. artist and former J:\esident of Sche- ferred Rushing. He said: last meeting, also received applica- butions. · nectady, will return here on Wed- (1) Under the new proposal stu- tions for editorship of the College Speaking on the place of the nesday and Thursday, March 5 and dents will have more of a chance Blotter. The Board turned over American farmer in our presen.t 6, ;for a series of talks and demon- to look around and will thus make financial consideration of the mat- \Angei Street\. The sets are virtu- '.IWX Change Led to Sale ally completed and rehearsals are being held every night. trhion decided to sell in 1950, after tax law changes made the Heimann Is Male Lead holding of such property impracti- \Angel Street\ which many will· cal. The decision was reached be- remember as the motion picture, cause of a new law which stated \Gaslight\, is the story of a cruel that non-profit organizations can- and ruthless man who attempts to not be exempt from tax payments drive his wife insane. Richard Hei- on real estatl;l' holdings. mann, a veteran {)f summer stock The transaction whereby the and Union College theater, is cast Prudential Life Insurance Com- as ·the brutal husband and Louise pany of America acquired the Woodruff, an o the r experienced Union College holdings, was so thespian, plays his unfortunate large that four title companies wife. James Balneaves, the St. An- each shared in the insurance and drews exchange student, is In- mortgages. Involved in the sale was spector Rough; Jacqueline Roberts the main department store and a and Priscilla Proxmire complete six story warthouse. the cast. Miss Proxmire has been 0 ,~-- in summer stock and Miss Roberts has had much dramatic experience around the capitol district. This production is in no way connected with the now defunct student activity, the Mountebanks. \Angel Street\ is being produced by the English department of the college. All expenses , are drawn from the English department and an the proceeds will go ]Jack into the ·English department. \Angel Street\ wil1 run March 13, 14, 15, and 20, 21, 22. • 01--- Philos Begin Busy Forensic Schedule The Philomathean debating so- ciety is pointing for the Brooklyn College intercollegiate tournament on March 7 and 8, :after opening its second term schedule Tuesday night at Albany State Teac]1ers College. ~ this, the second half of their 159th season, the Philos have ar- range(l a very busy plan of events. Jazz Society Concert At Albany Tuesday, Union's foren- The Ralph sutton band, includ- sic group g6t off to a good start. The .affirmative team of Monroe ing Johnny Windhurst, Ed Hall, Silverman and Joel Mann was vic- Cutty Cuttsal, Bob Casey, and Art d Trapier, will be at\Hotel Ten Eyck torious, while Arthur Feldman an . Conrad Schminke, who comprised Sunday afternoon, March 23, from• the negative team, finished in a tie 3 to 7 p.m. The affair is being sponsored by the jazz Society, and with the Albany State representa- 'tickets may be had, as usual, from tives. Tip Tower. After their foray to Brooklyn, the Philomatheans will travel to ~----------- ....... ---• colleges in the Philadelphia area, Ketz on Draft return home for the annual formal · Parliamentary debate to be held on Wilford H. Hetz, Coordi:nJaJtor campus March 19·, and then appear of .Student ActiVities, will speak at the United State s Debate at Monday Cbn.pel on preSent Tournament Preliminaries at Al- draft-student problems. New · bany State Teachers College on regulatlons will also be dis.- March 21. economy, Mr. Arthur said that tiLe strations at Union College. their decision more certain. ter to the Tax Committee. The farmer will have to accept his lot Speaks in MC (2) Under the new proposal the Board tabled a motion to award along with other industries in th.e· M R' k h · tl four week madhouse that has life time sub'scriptions of the Con- G r. !C ey, w 0 15 curren Y an tainted the rushing period 1\l'ill be· flux of our overall economy. ov- association professor of Fine Arts cordy to all former editors. ernment aid to farmers is a tJ:ueat at Indiana University, will deliver abolished. Chairman Dean Huntley appoint- to our national economy, accordin.g' a lecture entitled \Need Art Be However: ed Paul Carbone as chairman of a to the speaker. Modern?\ in Memorial Chapel' at < 1 > The cost under the new pro- committee to submit recommenda- \We seriously need a reorienta- 8 o~clock on the evening of March posal might be excessive. tiona to make the Publications tion of our agricultural thinking,\ 5, In addition, he will offer demon- ., (2) Inst~ad of a four ~eek Board more effective. Alfred Scott he said, \a recognition of the solid strations of portrait painting and madhous~ as before, ~here m1gh~ and Jay N. Cohn were named by basis on which American agricuJ- tb.e construction of mobile sculp-. be an e~bre sem:ster madhouse. Carbone to serve with him on the ture can be both successful an.d· tares. All of Mr. Rickey's appear- Levme Questions Walmih committee. Tllis followed a. long self-reliant and yet give the con- ances will be open to the public. A question by Larry Levine was discussion on the operation of the sumer the most for his money_\ th th t t th · B d Mr. Rickey is related to the late en rown ou o e panel m oar · Mr. Arthur concluded with, \We Judge Judson S. Landon, Union, which he asked Walrath to, define need an American agriculture an.d . class of 1855 ; for· 27 years a mem- the IFC's tentative proposal of de- industrial setup which will malJ:b her of .the board of trustess and ferred rushing. Walrath then ex- tain a grass roots alliance to free acting president of Union from 1880 plained the \rotation meal plan\ markets.\ t() lSSf. which would entail sending all Libel'al Al'ts Needed Born in Indiana, George Rickey freshmen interested in joining fra- Benjamin Fine spoke on the spent most of his youth in Eng- ternities to eat at every house tqpiG, \ThE) ~ture of Amari- land, where he graduated from under a system of meals and meal can Agricultural Education.\ Be B.alliol College, Oxford with a de- tickets which would have to be stressed the idea that, \This cou:n- gree in history before studying arranged by the administration. In try boasts the best agricultural col' Art at the Ruskin Drawing School that way the freshmen and not leges in the world.\ \But ca..u- in Oxford and at the Academy the fraternities would pay the big- tioned Mr. Fine, \We should be in- I~ote in Paris. In this .country he gest cost of rushing. terested in not only producing goud a-ttended the Institute of Fine Arts Pra.nke's questions bad to do technicians, but leading citizens .as of New York University, the Uni- with different ligures about the weil.\ versity of Iowa and the Institute number of meals a fraternity He continued \We must do mc.re o·f Design in ·Chicago. Mr. Rickey would have to serve to see all of than send men into farming con~- h.as traveled widely in Europe, the the interested freshmen. munities as technically train.ed United States and Mexico. His Under the rotation meal plan, as robots.\ Along this line, Mr. Fine work has been shown at the Up- later inter,preted by Walrath, the recommended that agricultural town Gallery, New York; the De- (Continued from Page 4) schools increase the proportion of trait, Denver, ·Oakland and San liberal arts courses in the cur-ri- Francisco Museums and in the Na- culum, and try to make the arts. tionat Art Galley in Washington. Winter \Brawl\ Is Financial Success Maisel Appoin~d Permission was granted to Car- bone, co-editor of the Garnet, and Norman Scull, editor of the Fresh- men Record, to start soliciting editors for next year. John C. Maisel, a junior from Baldwin, was appointed acting business manager of the Idol to succeed Dwight Hopkins. Cassidy has appointed Alfred L. Goldberger, a. sophomore from Schenectady, as news editor. Gold- berger has recently been copy editor. Herbert L. Spira, a sopho- more from Schenectady, was moved from the junior board to copy editor on the senior board. o--~ Hell Week Finale Slated Next Week Union's eighteen fraternities have reserved a special kind of Hell for 17Q,odd candidates for induction more dynamic to the stude:nt. \Neither should these courses bt?: snap courses,\ said Mr. Fine ill concluding, \but they should be woven into the whole program.\ Weeks Lauds KnaJ,lp Professor D. Richard Weeks of ~ the Englisb. deartment gave a. · resume of Knapp's life and his c<Jn- ' tributions in agxiculture and edu- , UCCA Lectures The Union College Christian Af!Sociation will SIKJnsor a series of six foxmal weekly lectnres dealing with preparation foil' marriage, beginning Tuesdiaoy, M'.arch 4 in Old Chapel. The . ta.J.ks, by faclilty aiJ.d local ex- perts, wili. be held on successive Tuesdays, except during vacar tion, at 4:30 p.m. Although official figures have this week. Those who have sur- not yet been released, this year's vived the placid pledging period, Winter Weekend was a financial that started last Oct. 12, will be .as well as social ·success. subjected to their sternest test of cation. Knapp, who took a cias- , sical course at Union, fathered 'the : county demonstration agent .sys- : tem, which bridges the gap between·: new agricultural experiments and·; the individual farmer. 1 The .dance showed an approxi- loyalty and endurance as Union mate pprofit of $140. About 500 College Fraernity Hell Week grinds couples attended and approximately away the days toward initiation. 400 of these contribuited a dollar This year's proceedings will mark at the door. · a trend away from the traditional The cup for the most original· fire and brimstone torture and to- theme and best costumes at the ward a program of constructive dance was awarded to Phi Gamma labor around the Houses and even Delta with Chi Psi second. e>ff the campus. First prize in the snow sculpture With the imposition of an in- cnssed. Questions can be l'aiSed from fue floor. Those interested In April, the Philos will again ii1 draft.. status are urged to play host to the Mock Senate in· wttend tJhel meeting. Albany. The debaters will hold ,_ ___ ___, ___________ ..~forth in the state legislature. Operating on the assumption t:hat · the individual is at the base of .any · knowledge, Knapp worked for agri- cultural reform. By \getting otliers: to do\ Knapp was able to achieve:: this reform. Registration for those wish- ing to attend the series will be held Monday. a.nd ·Tuesday be- twee!n. 12:30 and 1:30. The1·e will be a registration fee of $1.00 to cover the cost <Jf speakers and to pay for whatever literatm'e is distributed at thl.l lectures. COI\test went to Delta Chi, Chi Psi formal edict on exams, all atten- was second, Psi Upsilon third, while tention can be focused on enjoying Beta Eta Upsilon, Kappa Alpha, and profiting from the eventful ex- Phi Sigma Delta, Kappa Nu and periences that fiendish fraternity- Kappa Sigma received honorable men's minds can contrive to give mention. the pledges Hell.

2 FRIDAY,, FEBRUARY 29. 1952 ·I.. THE 'VERY IDEA 1·.· .. ~et~~~~L~,Cfa?titi~~at~~a~htarmt· to many arrived in the Concc)]~djensis. 0 he s udent ac ivi ies which By Jay N. ~ohn would be sadly missed by any who I..!::========:::::::::::===:=::::::::::=========::!J office this Week, was W:I~itt~:h have bece>me acquainted with it, Qlnurnr M61nber Associated Col- legiate Press and dislri· butor o! the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service Inc., College Publishers Representatice, 420 Madi· son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial O!'tlce,Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub.- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Enterffi in the Schenec- lndy Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, sub•criptlon lOc a copy; $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. S·ENIOR. BOAR.D DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '52 .......... Editor·in-Chief JOHN J. CASSIDY JH. '53 . . . . . . . . . . ...... Managing Editor IRWIN S. BARG '53 . .. .. .. . . .. . .. . .. . . .. .... Sports Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . • . . . . . • • • . . • Feature Editor MARTIN B. GORDO:'\ '5-t ................................ Copy Editor ALFRED L. GOLDBERGEH '54 ...................•..•... Copy Editor ALAN S. FORMAN '53 ........................... Photography Editor GEORGE J. WRUBEL '53 ............................ Business Mana~er HORACE VAN VOAST '62 ....................... Cireulation Manager JUNIOR. DOAR~ HERBERT L. SPI!tA '54 •...................... Assistant Copy Editor MARTIN HAUSEH '55 ........................ Assistant Copy Editor ALFRED H. KINGON '53 .................... Assistant I'eature Ed~ tor HERBERT L. HILLER '52 .......................... Exchange Ed~ tor f!OWARD BRODY '52 .......... , .................... E:xchan~,;e Edttor ROBERT SILVERMA:-:1 '53 ................ Assistanf. Busin.ess Manager CURTIS BATE3 '53 ................... Aosi~tant Ctrculatlou Manager REPORTEitS Peter Adler, :l.iarvin Boris·, 1 Ier!Jert Guston, Richard Heimann, Gary Katz Lewis Klein Eliot Losha.k, Martin Portnoy, Arthur Rosenfel?, Stew;,rt Robinson \Valtet· Salm, Alfred Scott, Donald Sunmons, David Smith, Arthur Stockman, Jl.,d•ei·t \\'llliams, !'au! Gilbert. BCSI!iESS STAI-'F Joseph Allen, Robert Bedt, Lawrenee Greenberg. CIRCULATION STAFF J. Loweli Davl~. Joe :l.ia1tin, !Javhi Brown, James Borst, Robert S eydel. Fitmaurite, Hkhal'd The Farm Subsidy Problem Henry B. Arthur, Union '26, speaking at the Founder's Day program in chapel l\Ionday, brought up the vast prob- lems of O'OVernment aid to farmers and government control from w:shington. That the farmer will. have t? eventually accept his lot with the nmainder of the mdustnal economy, and not as a g1·oup apart, is true. The essential iss1:1e is that the agricultural interests want continued aid but they resent the federal control that goes with it. The' government's quota a~d soil conserva- tion decisions are the l'eal bone of contentiOn. As much as he dislikes it, the farmer has to have government regulation as long as he insists on aid from Washington. If agricultme is not to be regarded as a separate entitv, subsidization must gradually wane. The Brannan Plan \vas a very weak attempt on the· part of the Administration to establish arbitrary price goals. Under the Brannan Plan, the government would con- tinue to sustain the price of storable staples, but would let the eggs, cheese, and similar products find their own price level on the grocery store shelves. The sin of the Brannan Plan was that it was no basic modification of preceding plans, and that it was too unwie1dly for practical applica- tion. - New Deal policy is largely responsible for the · agri- culture issue of today. The New Deal went overboard on aid to fa11ners. The farmer today needs government aid, but the need is not as great as the farm interest would have us believe. Now is the time to start a gradual cut down in fa1m subsidies. With this cut down, the poor inefficient farmer will be eliminated, and agriculture in the United States will have the solid basis for which it has been searching. -J. J. c. A Matter of School Pride This may sound a little bit like \We were there, where were you?\ philosophy, but the student tumout at Monday's Founder's Day ceremonies was pathetically small. Only about one quarter of the student body was in attendance as Union celebrated the 157th anniversary of its founding. Founder's Day is perhaps the most intellectual chapel program that Union offers during the course of the school year. Degrees were conferred, there was a procession of the faculty, and three speeches which were interesting to any of those present with any semblance of school and national pride. The administration has just about given up on the presence of any voluntary school pride among the great ma- jority of Union men. As a I'esult, classes were excused and two points chapel credit were given to those who attended. We realize that it is too late to correct this matter this year, but it is never too late to b·y to inculcate a measure of school pride into members of the campus colony. Most of us have to spend four years here at Union, and, whether we are in our first or last year, it is not too late to begin taking an interest in Union College, past and present. -J. J. c. Praise Where Praise Is Due There's an article in last week's LOOK magazine which a little. I Purdue 0 p inion Panel, which it quotes, has erred in its sampling Of teenage opinion. I sine ere I y that t h e group they tested was unrepresent a -that maybe stud e n t s didn't mean what they said. But if there's any validity to we have cause to worry. The Purdue group questioned some 15,000 high-schoolers to find out what that age\group thinks of freedom. The results were astound- ing. They showed that many American boys and girls are ready to throw away some of their most precious freedoms, that they are ca;pable of faHing for the hysterical pitch of a dictator, and that many would prefer not to think for them- selves. As far as the freedom issue is ·concerned, here are some of the teenage attitudes the survey un7 covered. Nearly 60 per cent agree that police are justified in giving a man the third-degree to make him talk; one-third think that persons should be .forced to testify against themselves; one-fourth would pro- hibit the right of people to as- semble peaceably; 15 per cent would deny some criminals the right to have a lawyer; and only 45 per cent believe newspapers should be allowed to print any- thing they want except military secrets. But that's not all. About half of the students believe that large masses of people are incapable of determining what is good for· them; three-quarters of them think that obedience and respect for author- ity, the strongholds of a dietator- shlp, are the most impor-tant virtues children should learn; e>ne- thil~ believe a foreigner visiting the u.s. should not be allowed .to criticize our government; 34 per cent want the gov!:ll'nment :to pro- hibit some people froin ·llli!IJkilig public speeches; and a whopping ·60 per cent l;>elieve that eonscien- tious objectors should he <ieprived Of their · right to vote and that police and other groups should have the right to censor ·or b~;tn books and movies whe:u the:y see fit. If these are really the ideas of this nation's teenagers, we are· los- ing our battle against totaJitarian- ism. I:!; today's youth grows up tomorrow harboring the sa:me anti- democratic principles, the future ·Of tr11e democracy in AmeriC!a seems very dark indeed. ¥ :f. ¥ The Junior Class already has plans underway for the Spring Prom, but they seem to be :on the brink of making a big n!lstake. Blesf!ed with a new govern,nent ruling which allows collegeos, to run dances without charging an ad- mission tax, the class has :decided NOT to give the benefit of that break back to the students. ['hey have magnanimously l:l,gree-d' to cut the ticket price from $7.!l0 to $6.50, but this still gives them ;jQ, cents more than the $6.00 maxhnuro any previous dance has netted~ It just doesn't seem fair. The students have proved tllat they'll support a dance If the J)rice is right, and the time is now ri:Pe to slash prom prices· to a sensible level. No class has the right to grab off a big profit at th.e ex- pense of the 'Students, unless they can offer them their money•s worth. And no matter how you slice it, a prom just isn't worth that ·kind of money! How about $4.50 gentle- men? For Your Information SATURDAY, MAR. 1 - Varsity Swimming, Union vs. RPI at Sche- nectady, 2:30 p.m.; Junior Varsity Swimming, Union vs. RPI, Gym, 4 p.m.; Phi Sigma Kappa, Mess Hall, 7:30 p.m. , SUNDAY, MAR. 2- Sunday Serv- ice, Preacher, The Rev. John D. Verdery, Headmaster, The Wooster School, Danbury, Conn., MC, 11 a.m.; Organ Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, 4 p.m. Assisted by Mrs. Anita Meyer, pianist. MONDAY, MAR. 3 - Fraternity Initiation Week (no. hour ex:ams or term papers to be required); Daily Assembly, speaker, Mr. Wil- ford H. Ketz, \The Dra.ft\ MC, noon; Air Science Guest Lecture, MC, 4:30p.m.; Glee Club Rehearsal, OC, 7:30 p.m.; Placement Meeting, Liberty Mutual Insurance Com- pany, Silliman Hall, 7:30 p.m.; Al- liance and Francisase and Union College French Dept. display in honor of 150th Anniversary of Birth of Victor Hugo, March 3-15. College community and public in- vited. TUESDAY, MAR. 4- No Assem- bly Today. Assembly w~ll be held tomorrow (March 5) ; Union Col- lege Christian Assn. Marriage Course begins, OC, 4:30 p.m.; Placement Discussion, ~il'estone Tire and Rubber Compaiiy, Silli- man Hall, 7:30 p.m.; A:merican Rocket Society, CE 106, 8 p.m.; Union College Flying Cl-ub, CE Library, 7 p.m. WEDNESDAY, MAR. 5 - Dr. George Rickey, .Associate Profes- sor of Design begins two-day visit on campus; Daily Assembly, speak- er, Prof. George Rickey, MC, noon; Union Coilege Christian .Assn. Lenten SerW.ce, Silliman HaJJ, noon, Robert Morgan, leader; Junior Varsity Swimming, Union vs. Al- bany Academy, Gym, 4 }J.m:; Glee Club Rehearsal, OC, 4:30. p.m.; Newman Club CE 106, 7:30 p.m.; GIJ.ee Club Rehearsal (with Sche- nectady Woman's Chorus) MC, 7:15 p.m:; COLLEGE LECTURE, OC, 8 p.m. by Dr. George Rickey, Public cordially invited. TWO POINTS .CREDIT. THURSDAY, MAR, 6 - Daily As- sembly, speaker, Dr. George Rickey, MC, noon; Fraternity Night; Lec- ture (Alliance Franciase, Union, Skidmore, Russell Sage an<l ·E:mma Willard), OC, 8 p.m., speaker, Monsieur de Messieres, Cultural Attache, French Embassy, followed by reception in Student Lounge, Letters to the Editor Dear Editor; Every year the Freshmen Liberal Arts' students arrive in September full of spirit and ambition, and every year in June, most of them, the fortunate one:s, sigh with relief after having completed the course that they \had to take.\ Many of their bretheren have already de- parted because of this course, while many of those remaining who are destined to make the Dean's List in later years barely manage to keep off of the Dean's other list. I believe that it is time to revise the mathematics requirement. I would like to suggest two possible ways in. which the curricula could be re- vised. First, the offering of alter- natives to math. Perhaps Psy- Arts' students, which would be more suited to these students' needs for a general course. It should be noted that this wi.l! be the last science for most of the L.A. boys, while the same- .course is being given to those who will be science majors. It might be pas· sible to establish a course sirnilar to Science 50, which is a ge:ueral science course, In addition to the present courses offered to Fresh- men. Last year at this time, Union College's student body chology, a second laboratory h d • t 1 t d 1 k d b t th k J science, or Logic t:ould be substi- a Jus con:p e ~ a pr-om ess wee en. ' u an s to ay tuted. If thisp wolild not be ac- I hope that the committee in- vestigating possible changes .Jn the curricula will consider tllese· sug- gestions. I hope that they .will ma,ke some corrections to th:e rnath and science requirements here at Union, which have made life for a great many Freshmen quite painful. Gohn and hiS Wmter Weekend committee, we may never • ceptable, perhaps exemption from have to go without a mid-winter dance again. The precedent this course could be granted to breaking action of the Snow Brawl O'roup not only was a those who have had more than b · d' b t · t .,d • three years of high school mathe- oomm,., success, u. promises o en me. matics, coupled with a less tech- In the past, Umon men have shown that they cannot nical math course here. The senti- or will not support three expensive formals during the ment on campus is certainly op- course of the school year. The idea of a \ten cent prom'' posed to the ~resent system, B:nd was conceived by Cohn and the support it received was there are posslble. cha?-ges whlCh • 1 • • would better the sttuahon, beyond expectatiOns. Smce 1md-wmter formals have suf- fered from lack of patronage in the past, it is probable that the inexpensive informal dance has a promising future. For all these reasons, we say hats off to the enter- prising members of the Winter Weekend committee; their ingenuity may have established a tradition at Union. -J. J. c. My second concern concerns the present science requirement. I am not opposed to the requirement itself, but with the highly tech- nical nature of the present courses in Physics, Biology, and Chemistry. I would suggest that separate courses be set up for the Liberal Yours -truly, NORMAN E. SCULL An Open Letter to the Campus Community: I want to take this opp()rtunity to commend everyone for their spirited interest and generous. sup- port . of last weekend's '.'Snow Brawl\. It could never have been a success if it were not · th.at you all pitched in to help, In particl,llar, we'd like to thank the fraternities, the faculty, every- one 'who helped to decorate the gym, and all of you whose dona- tions allowed us to meet O>Ur ex- penses. Sincerely, JAY :N, (J()JI:N by Deah Bensley, who <is eur- while the p1,esence .of the ''fair sex:\ rently one ·Of Union's ex:- adds: a Urtiversal' charm to life in h t d t t St A general. There are few sights C ange .s U en S a - ...ttn- which can match watching the stu- drews University in Sco-tland. dents, dressed in their brilliant Union's other 1!epresertt:ative scarlet gowns; pfl,rading along the is Jan Walker. rocky coast to the sea on a Sun.- Ye Union Mep.: d~y morni:ng; yet what could make that walk more enjoyable than a Scottish lass WaJlki:irg by your side? Strangely enough, the existence ·of this. latter infllience makes the weekly Saturday nigh( dance a much more successful affair. than it would .pe at. Union. If memory serves me <:qr-.m<:bl::y, the time is fast approaching:- ·when some of you will be thinkinfr :ai:Jout trying for the St. AndreW:s· Ex- change Scholarship· a,nd ~on.de~lng what Ufe Is like on the other side of the water:~Are the p~ple· starving .to death? Does ev-eryone wear a kilt and plm,v the bag;:jilpes? In St. And-rews, the home o-f golf, are the children· born with: a goU cluh in their hand? These are probably over-exaggerations, of ·the· questions wl;l.ich may 1ie in :the rn1nds of some of you; neve1:t.hele~;?s 1 a few of these questions ·ro.av be satisfactori'ly answered befot'E '[ anr finished~ W!J,en Jan Walker and :rn:Yself first arrived in St. Andl'e\~WVs we commented on how ca:jm and· pe.aoe\ ful was this small city wbiC.h· <!on- tained such a famous and aneient University and the one al!d <Jnly Royal and Ancient Golf Club-; how- ever, our views of a quiet existence' were soon to be altered. As the· University life began, Jan ai?.d' I found that we we~e swept into a very active dub program, a .rl . .gor- ous athletic schedule, and a. •ooag, nificent round of dances att~: ]Ja_zo· ties. We found that the U:ni~nxnE>n who had been before us hadi left a collection of accornpllsbJ..mEnts which we found it difficult :to live· up to. Much as the story- .o:;t Paul Bunyan grew up in- the f<n'ests of our own country, so the best .deeds and the accompli&hments of our predecessors rose before us. It ha..s been great fun attempting to main- tain some of these reputations. Although Union Cdllege :a..:nd. Si:. Andrews UnJversity each has nany attributes, St. Andrews is• -differ- entiated sharply from Unio11 h•y · a· well based, extremely ·cob rfui tradition; and by WOMEN., \The VICTORIA Restaurant Specializing in Italian Foods Jay Street (Cor. Unior.) To turn to the ever present .prob- lem of 10tu<iy and classes, 've have found that this is one occupation which it is virtually i~possible to omit in the.average University, and St. Andre\'li\'s is no exception. .Al- though there is no ·equivalent to our· beloved' \hour exams\ here at St. .Andre\Ws Univer::;ity, there is an examination at the end of each pf the three• terms, the last being a comprehensive· exam; moreover;· at the end of the university course each student must take a fully comprehen~ive examination on his specialized subjects'\ :As a direct result of this systJ!m, most of the students are· obliged to work very hard their Iast year, but until that fateful time draws near their ex- istence is not too difficult. Classes are quite fot·rnal with both students and lef?turers wearing gown:s, ex- cept for .the rather unusual custom that the students· stamp their feet when they 3ipprove of something and shuffle their feet when they disapprove. This custom can be quite ,efficient in discourag~ng a lecturer fr-om carrying on his lec- ture for five or ten minutes aftex the class is officially· over. Since you may obtain a far better account of -political happenings from your newspapers, a..nd since many poets have adequately de- ?crib_ed the scenery of this country, 1t w1H suffice for me to wish you all good· luck and good bye until next year. . So long, DEAN BENSLEY L. G. BALFOUR CO. Frafernity Jewelers :BADGFS- ·RINGS- FAVORS JJ!JWELRY LEATHER GD'TS STATI&-:NER.Y - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDA.I..8 - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN Stl Murra:y Ave. Waterford, N!Y. PHONE 'l'RoY-ADAlUS S:.252S .LANGE & ·lAPP PHARMACY \The College. Si,.den.ts Drug Store\' CHEMICALS- DRUGS Cor. Not+ Ter.r.ac:e and State Street An~ ExcHusive Event History•s Fallulous $1 OOiOO.OO Collectio11 ~f Cultured Pearls At Their Jirst Public Sale in S.cl1enectady You will be ag.greeably surprised at the Modest ,Pfi<:.es· in this collection-· they range fr:otn $15 to $500.00 On Display: $4(),000.00 Handbag ·-.....-\¥\\ \V' ... .......... \'\ ..... ..... ......................... ... \SERVING SCHENECTr.ACJ:Y FOR 3 GENERATIONS\ .... · ... M ' F4 The with a Foete Dutchr season. pile an tie. RPI I depend and Ha events and Bil Freestyl Leslie,.·< prise a atjon w. times ir Bill I in scori1 in the 5 ing the tea;ms. the visi was Bil when G fied. lY. two col DickE yidual 1 and \l Duffy's <f) If the up a v season~~ est in again have p< the onl: hands c lege ere Last .mers r tory bJ versity 48-36. ' two clu their e two U1 Fink, Hartm: knotte< .man Ji ley rel fled fo yard b also < reason. rn tl: and_Dl second of the home. yard d ner, of Stark the fi: which the Gs 150 ill took a and jE Roche, Johz had t< respec wfl.ich a tot2 tinued nemes in thE onds. ond a Har strokE al!;l a1 as a· tion. Jewet Sharp Pitts, ish li tance seven work, Fo1 Fo1 All test~ tour'il Art cham early . D: a. '6-( Sig, chan S11It er.lca Bate bono prim twee Alph reco1 In men· Delt: Kap 27-2( Gam nigh

2 h t,. FRIDAY •. FoEBRUARY 29. 1952 3 Mermen Head FOr 9th Victory :B.aseballers In Practice J.VQ Quintet Faces RPI ·5 Coach Art Lawrence :has had his The J.V. cagers travel to Clinton, battery candidates doing light New York to meet Eamilton~s J.V. : i workouts in the gym, during this in the preliminary to the varsity . past week. The pitchers and clash tonight at 7:30 p.m. Up Basketball Team Pl~ays at Clinton B.y Sonny Gerllzog catchers turned out Monday after- until now the J.V.'s bave only been The Union College natators close out the 19 51 _ 52 ' noon and have spent this week able to win one game_;their open- . h t t . . seas~n loosening up and throwing lightly. er against the Hainllton five. The Wlt are urn. enga.gemen agamst the Engmeers of RPI m Starting on Monday, Lawrence Garnet won by a score of 36-35. The Fo@te Memonal Pool, tomorrow afternoon, at 2:30. The: hopes to have the hurlens throwing quintet's record now is 1•6. Dutchmen walloped their arch rivals 57-27 earlier in thei harder and for control. . RPI JV .. Wins season. Since then :the Troy mermen have gone on to· com :. The . balance of the candidates,' On Febr'un·t·y 16th. the RPT • · · · · d f · -,, returnmg players and new can- ~ By Lew Iilein After a losing home stand, the Union courtmen take to the road once again in an attempt to stop an explosive Hamil- ton quintet which is currently rebounding after a seven g.a:1ne losing skein. Last Wednesday the Dutchmen threw a scare into a highly touted Hobart .squad, as Union fought through two overtime periods before bowing 78-69. Second Meeting p~le an ummpress1ve :f.lecor · · o one wm, seven losses, and one. didates, wm probably begin early apprentice Engineers defeated Sam he. ' IJI'actice in one week. Again, Art Hammerstrom's squad at .Alumni FeatUire Frec!rtylers <So , villl start the boys on light indoor Gym 58-52. It yvas a well con- For the second time this year Hobart Wins · · nractice sessions consistlng of easy. tested game that featured many the Garnet wiH be counting on the Rp . I coach \Pop\ Graham w1'll ·home t m t '1 d h b h ~ ' t r th ft t h If H~m·lt g t d 1 1 · Last Wednesday evening a short- . · · ea , ra1 e orne e ind: ·throwing and some fielding prac-. exciting mom en ll. · n · e rs a , ~ 1 on arne o en a ong osmg depend on freestylers Pan Yahn the winning time of 5:24.4. . tice, until the weather permits the the Garnet remained close to the streak. Last Febbruary 6, t:he Buff . handed Union squad fought dog- and Hank Leslie in the distance The meet was decided in the final baseballers to move out on Alex- tails of the Enginee:rs. The Cherry and Blue succumbed 62-57 to the gedly only to go down to defeat events and 'Captain Pete· Gattone. event when th t b' t· 't · lei h w y Dutch e · · U · ' · e s rong com ma 10n ander Field. and Wh1 e wou ' ave run a a m n m snappmg nwn s SIX at the hands of a tall, Hobart Col- and Bill Loveday in .the· dashes. of Reiners, Stark, Dorse and Fink with the game in. the second half, game dearth. This time the Nis- Freestyler Stan Cozzens· along with . copped the 400· yard· ;elay in a TW{) Veterans had not Joe Willdns<Jn. Dave Greg\ tadmen have run the string to three lege team in two overtime periods. Leslie,. ·Gattone, and Loveday com- speedy 3:49. This left both teams Only two men f!'om last season's ory, and Jerry Tisb.enkel come up straight games without a win. With only three reserves on the prise a top notch relay ·COmbin- tied for fir::;t place honors with five squad are out for hurling berths. with fifteen, eleven, and nine .points Hamilton has a mediocre 4-8 rec- bepch Union fell behind, 38-32 at atjon which has faltered •but three ~!-Piece, but Union had taken seven: Jim Hogan, a junior from 'Syra- respectively. RPI ·Was led by :Bm ord, so far this campaign, but has halftime. However, by the third times in nine encounters. of the second ·places in the meet. cuse, who saw some action last Bernstein who scored' 12 points. defeated powerful Hobart in an· quarter the game was ti<>d at 49-49, Bill Loveday led the Engineers Beat Hamilton year, and Hobie DePuyt, another The junior hoopsters went down early season match. After the due to some sensational shooting by in scoring by capturing .first places Friday afternoon, before travel-; junior, are •returning. DePUyt was to defeat at the hands of a power- Hobart tilt, however, the Con tin- Glenn Kinns and Bob Murray. in the 50 and 100 yard dashes .dur- ing to Rochester, Mullane's men' the regular center.fielder on the ful Trinity J.V. squad, 66-52, on entals went on to lose seven Union sailed into · an overtime ing the firSt meeting of the two racked up their seventh triumph by team and one of its stronger hit- the Garnet ho:rne court. It was a straight, including a return fray period as lanky Jerry Barandes teams. The only other Vlinner for handing Hamilton a snappy 63-21 ters, He had been mentioned as a rough and tough game down to with tile Statesmen, before downing knotted the regulation game at the visiting team duri:Qg that meet defeat. This marked the second'· possible hurler last season and now, the fourth periocl, when the taller Norwich last week. Wednesday, 63-63, with a two-handed jump shot. was Bill Skiff in the breaststroke, time this season that the Garnet' with Phil McQuade gone, may be Trinity team began monopolizing the Buff and Blue was decisively Union led for most of the extra when Gerry Geismar ~as disquali- has easily 'romped over the Con- used to bolster the mound staff. the boards. The close game turned defeated by RPI but displayed a session but just before the gun fied. Mullane~s mermen lowered tinentals. In this second meeting,· Other men out for pitching berths into a runaway. Dave Roberts and brilliant all court attack which may sounded, Kent Butler dumped one two college marks that afternoon. the visiting Union team made the are freshmen Booth, Bradt, Car- Bob Freeman led the 'Trinity scor- prove more difficult for the Dutch· in for Hobart to tie it up again Dick Hartmann put. a new indi-. sweep complete by taking all ten rigg, Reed, and Zimmerli. Sopho- ers with seventeen and sixteen men to solve, than was the posses- at 67 points apiece. In the next vidual medley record on the books first places. more's Gordon, Josephson, and points respectively. Joe Wilkinson sian type ·ball which the Cantin- canto, however, the roof fell in on .and \Hotdog\ Reiners dropped 0 Richter round out the pitching po- of Union topp!)d all scorers with entals used in the previous meeting the tired, but game Union five. Duffy's old 440 record. F. t r· k Tr\ 1 tentials. In the catching depart- 21 points~ while :Bob Gilfillan was with the Garnet. Unable to snare rebounds from the :: . Irs .. rae: Ia . ment, three men have turned out. second high score!' for Union with In his first season at the Clinton tall Hobart team, the exhausted May Post 9·1 s f M d Medei, a ·Jocal boy, is the .only eleven points. college, baslietbal! mentor Ken Dutchmen came out on the short If the Garnet splasher can chalk . et or on ·ay freshman candidate and Dick Patrick, has been faced with a lack end of an 11-2 count in this period up a victory, they will equal last Henry and Bob Schaffer have re- Cobleskffi. '\Vinil.er of rebound strength. Utilizing a and the ball game went down the season~s record which was the .fin- The first officiai practice for the · turned. Schaffer saw some action The - neophytes opened Winter small, fast team paced by high- drain, 78-69. est in their 26 year history. Once Union track team will be held behind the plate during the pa.st Weekend festivities l?Y ,playing host scoring Bill Wethe1·bee, Hamilton Monday afternoon at 3 ·30 p m All •t Th Milt Chodack was high for the again the Union swJ·m.mei'S w1'll. · · · · season whi'le Henry had been con to the Cobleskill .Aggie varSI Y· e has looked 1'mpress1·ve nven 1'n de- those l 'nterested in J·o 1 ·n·ng the te·~ ' · - · 1 tt • visitors with 21 points. Glenn Kinns have posted a 9 and 1 record, with 1 ~· verted from an outfielder to Garnet followed tllell' usua pa ern feat throughout the entire cam- are Urged to report to Coach ·Bt'll 1 t'l th tied thi::; total in spite of some very the only mar being a defeat at the · catcher midway through the sea- making it a c ose game un I · e paign. Little Vinnie Coyle, 5'6\ Ketz at the gym ' . th · ·t· tough luck on many of his shots. hands of a :powerful Williams Col- · son final period when e V!Sl mg, freshman guard, who started in the There l ·s room on the team for · t d d Kinns' 21 markers gave him 247 lege crew · ---01---- taller team ook comman an · previous Union fray, is the team's · men 1 ·n almost all the events and 2 · t W'Jk' tallies in sixteen games for a 15.4 t S T.T • · • turned in a 71-6 VIC o:ry. · 1 1nson playma:ker and set shot artist. Al- Las aturday, the ·union SWim- l'nterested f eshmen a e urged' t D It u •t w· 'th 12 points per gam·e average. However, r r o n again led Union•s scorers Wl though Hamilton's lineup has been mers racked up their eighth vic- tr out Ex · · · t ce ' e a ·pSI 0fi } ·s f b h' d in recent tilts, Kinns has been aver- b Y . penence 1s no a ne s- . · · · points, with Gil illan close · e t:ir · shaken up· continually due to the tory y downing a stubborn Uni- sary pre re'qut·s 1 ·te for· candi'dates V }} 1 . C bl k'll h ·a th aging well over 20 points per game. · · -· · b }} T with 0 pomf.ll. · 0 es 1 a ree losing streak, Coach Ken Patrick versity of Rochester swim team As soon as the weather permits, o· e·y a ourney men in double figures. They were feels he now has an adequate start- Union, greally handicappe.d by the 48-36. 'This second meeting of the Coach Ketz WI'll move the runne A B . L Alt · d loss of Stretch Batkiewicz, whose t h b rs nthony t!SlnD, ew en an ing team and, except for Bud Lyle wo clubs was closer t a.n had· een and ft'eld m n out 'd The intramural volleyball tourna- C scoring and rebound work has t . 1 t e Sl e' Don lifford. and Dinny · Calkins, recently their earlier ou mg, pari; y due o The biggest loss for this year's ment came to a elose last week proved invaluable lately, found the two Union disqualifications. Art squad will be Don Wilsey, a ver- with the boys from Delta Upsilon ABC 'r~ps Garnet brought up from the jayvee, the slack taken up by a fully recovered Fink, swimming freestyle behind t· f' ld d .capturing their second intramural on February '27th the Garnet Buff and Blue quintet will remain Bob Murra\ who netted 17 points. sa 1le 1e man who gra uated last essentially the same.. · J Hartmann and Chris Mulhert, was June. However, Keti has many re- title of the year. In two well played played host to Alba;ny Business Col- knotted in a tight race with anchor turning lettermen and he feels he and closely contested playoff lege who had previously defeated ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; .man Jim Pitts, in the opening med- has. some good prospects to fa{)e games, DU clinched the crown. them by two points, 61-59, a.t P.S. ley relay, when he was' disquali- this year's tough schedule, which The victors downed Phi Delta 16's gyiP. in Albany-. The game was fied for an illegal turn. In' the 20cf begins on , April 19 , against Roch- . Theta, winners of the Western di- nip and tuck all t:he \Vay :but .Al- yard backstroke, Howie Kloth was ester. vision in five games. The first bany Business College won 55-54 in also disqualified .fo1· a similar Kiwus and Trotter are two fine ,game went to the losers 15-12. with a close game that saw many fouls reason. Reiners, Duf:f Win sprinters who are returning letter- Db finally wihning out 15-7, 15-12, called. men. Brown, the top quarter miler 1 4 - 1 6, and 17-9. In the second play- ABC won the game on the foul has dropped out of school, but John off, Delta Phi was the victim by line by sinking .three more fouls Larkin will be back on the squad 8'- 15 ; 15 - 2 • . 15 - 5 • 8 - 15 • and 15 - 11 than Union. The Albany :Business this year. With Gari Clough ·and 'counts. College scoring was spread out Dick Dolan in the mile, Ketz feels The Betas trailed Phi Delt in the among the whole team. Union was that he has good strength in the Western division with a four and again led by dependable Joe Wil- middle distances. Dick Mechanic one record. In the Southern kinson with 15 points. Gilfillan and -Dolan or Clough will handle . ·League, which unbeaten D Phi led, scored 13. the two mile event. Chi Psi was runner-up, also with a GAZETTE PRESS Printers rn the 220 yard freestyle, Reiners and_Duffy brought Union f.irst and second place points, Vlith Stephens of the home team trailing them horne. Eob Dorse cop:ped the 50 yard dash in 25 seconds, with ';!7ur- ner, of Rqchester, second, a)!,d ;Dick Stark third. Dick Hartmann took the first of his two first places, which made him high scorer for the Garnet, as he triuinphed in the 150 individual medley. Art Fink took another three points for Union and jewett picked .up o:ne point for Rochester. Letterman Kottman is back in 4-1 record. Second to DU in the the high jump and Len Klingberg, Northern Leagu!) was Phi Sigma leyball team in the-school was com-'~=============================~ a fine small collegt pole vaulter, Delta, which dropped its only con- posed of Jack. ThoDJas, :Sob Munro, will also be returning. Morris, 'test to the eventual champions. Dick Henry, Houston, Don Reed, O'Meally, Muller, Batkiewicz, and The starting siX for the top vol-l9.nd Dick Bloomfield. Giambruno look like good pros-lrr;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=;;;;:=:=:=:=:=;;;;=:=:=:==:=:=:=:=:=;;;;;; John Sherwood and Ehi M;etzger had to settle for second and third respectively in the diving event, wh-ich was won by Garfield with a total of 79.4 points. Pitts con- tinued to prove himself Union's nemesis taking first place honors in the 100 yard dash in 55.7 sec- onds. Dorse and -Duffy were sec- ond and third. Hartmann Scores ..... pects for the field events. UNION VS. HOBART Hobart G F P Union G Berkeley 5 3 13 Kinns 8 Butler 7 0 14 Christie 2 Griswold 2 2 6 Sutka 2 Wilson 5 3 13 Parisi 3 Chodack 9 3 21 Murray 8 Kraus 1 3 5 Barandes 3 Spitzer 1 1 3 Sch' tzman 1 Terhune 1 1 3 F P. 5 21 2 6 2 6 3 9 1 17 1 7 l 3 Totals 31 6 78 Totals Hobart ...... 9 29 11 14 Union ....... 16 16 17 14 27 15 69 4 11-78 4 2-69 Plzaedru.r philosophized: SAVE 15% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.--'1>-9766 Raw, Steamed Clams \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S\ 647 Noff St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS--$6.75 for $i.OO Hartmann captured the back- stroke event in 2:26.6 with McDon- ald and Wilf!Qn second and third, as· a result o'f Kioth's· disqualifica- tion. Geismar was second, behind Jewett, in the breaststroke, with Sharp copping. third place honors. Pitts, once again, crossed the· fin- ish line first in the 440 yard d.is- tance event and Duffy. 'who totaled seven points for his afternoon's work, was second. Mehr; of the You will soon l>rea1. the bow Four Teams Vie For Hoop CrtlWll .;\.II the regularly seheduled con-. tests in the intramural· basketball. tour'nament have bee:n completed. Art Lawrence expects to run the championship elimination contests. early next week. ' D Phi led the Natie>:nal loop with a '6-0 record, folltn'ied by Kappa Sig, 4-2. Phi Delt wili also be a championship contendet' as a re- sult of their 5-0 r-ecord in·the Am- erican. League. Chi Psi and the Eaters were tied for .runner-up honors with 4 and 2 records. A primary playoff will ·he held be- tween the Engineers and Kappa Alpha, both of wl:lich posted 6-1 records in the Eastern division. In the last round:s of the tot!rna- ment, held this w~ek, Phi Sigma Delta downed the ROTC team. 3&-31, Kappa Sigs toppled Beta· Theta Pi 27-20, and the Bate1;s dr61'!ped Phi Gam by a 23-2~ count, on Monday night. if you ke~p· it always stretched Fahle.t Recipe for relaxation-take the contents of one :frC>sty bottle of Coca-Cola. Delicious, too. BOmEi> UN[)ER AUTHORITY Of tHE C:OCA-COLA CON.PANY BY SCJiENECTADY COCA-COLA BO'I'Ti:..ING COMPANY ~e''ka~·~ko @.1952,. THE COCI'l·COLA COMPANY' A fellow sure \• gets around in an ARROW GABANARO! America's favorite sports shirt_:.with the sensational Arafold s:ollar you can wear open or close<l-Gabanaro sees you through in style and in ·comfort1 SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR o HANDKERCHIEFS \'

4 James Balneaves Delights Chapel With Amusing ·:Talk on St. Andrews Chi Psi HELP Student Talks About Costa Rica , A stimulating 20 nii:hutes of :fun and good humor was Like any native Costa Rican, John de Goeijen, this the rew~rd fm· all th-{)se who attended Thursday Chapel year's HELP student staying at the Chi Psi lodge, has always to hear St. Andrew£ ExchanO'e student James Balneaves been under some American influence. For this small ~en- expound on the stuCien.t life ;t his alma mater. Mr. Bal~ tral American country, located between Panama and N1Ca- neaves erased the 'l~ornmop assumption of American stu- ragua, is dependent upon the American dollar for economic dents that co11ege Hfe in Great Britain is dulL ~ stability. Balneaves appeared in llls red~•>--------------- --~-o~--- No New Experience ~ , academic robe and pr()ceeded ,to tions for the Exchange scholarship John went to an American high D J he s deal humorous!~ with rnanj.T of the would be greatly Increased this school in Costa Rica and college e- p ICS ponsor day-by-day activities of St An- . life here is no new experience. He drews' college life. \Toilet. paper year. has settled right into fraternity Paren.ts Weekend ·thrown from one balcony to an- life and was initiated into the Chi ·· ' ' other highlighted one gra.d11ation .Honor Hugo iR OC Psi fraternity. Previous to this affair and Balneaves was ou the FRIDAY, FeBRUARY 29, 1952 Placement News To Seniors interested in avla-~,--,..-------~----- tion co:r:qpanies: . , Boeing Airplane Co., ftl~ at 8 • p.m., EE -22, March 7; Interviews at Wells House March 8, 9 a.m. terested in credit, retail,· and ware- house work. Their group· will be at 7:30, March 4, at Silliman Hall. to noon. · Look over Bulletin No. 34 for the North American Aviation inter- schedule; but remember that other views on March 18. This date has companies ha;ve joined the list been re-confirmed. ,since F.eb. l. If you do not know Lockheed Aircraft, interviews on very much about some of the firms, April 25. come in and talk to us and read Men unfamiliar with the claims- the books supplied by the com- adjusting work are invited to hear 'panics. Mr. Ushe of Liberty Mutuai Insur- Seniors who have not yet talked ance Company, March 3, 7:30 p.m.,, with Mr. Swanker concerning their Silliman Hall. His interviews will· plans are invited to come into the take place the Qext day al Wells office and arrange a time to see House. On March 5 we have Fire- him. The Delphic Society wiH sponsor· t John concluded a high school cur- committee especially designated · o riculum in Switzerland and spent the second annual Parents Week- pick it up. Royalty was so<»n to be a year at an agricultural college end, April 18 through 20, it was ' on hand to view the ,p:roc:eedings stone with interviews for men in- An exhi:bition prepand by the -;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,j French Embassy on Vietor Hugo · fi< studying coffee production. His announced today by Delphic presi- and delay was impossible:. family is engaged in the major in- dent Jerty O'Loughlin. Scots Averse to TeariJ1g T'ickets dustry of Costa Rica-that of coffee The question of da.nces was growing and exportation. Purpose of Weekend .raistd in his d-iscourse, It seems Along with coffee; cocoa, sugar that in Scotland they haven't d b anas make Up thl ·s wholl\ In naming· the committe>e heads, an an \ caught on to tearing up tlc:l\ets so agricultural country's chief ex- O'Loughlin stated that the purpose they can't be used again. rt is said t · Th U 't d States 1's the of the wePkend is' \to ex,pose the· par s. e m e they are somewhat ave1•se, to folly biggest buyer. The class structure pments to the college plant, ac-. of this sort. But as Ba.lneaves of this small agrarian po.pulation quaint them with student life here said, a few tickets might be sold is sharply divided with a small at Union. introduce them to the but everyont sooner ,or la. teL~, would wealthy landlord class and a large administration and the faculty.\ be inside the dance hall. <JnE ticket peasant faction. The culture is dis- The Delphic's sponsorship is in ceuld and would pei,form the tinctly Eut·opea;n; chiefly Spanish. line with a proposal made last function of 20. The government is established year by former president of that The election of rectors ·is a very closely paralleling that of France. ·body, Edwin Wheeler. Letters will interesting phenomenon. Ev<ery two The population is very socially con- be sent to the parents of the stu- years the students elect a. rector scious, with almost everyone arti\e dent body this week, announcing who is supposed to be tl1e stu- in some form of politics. In 1948 the dates and the program for the dents' go-between with the admin- there was an armed revolution and weekend. istration. The campus is usually will open tomorrow in Old Chapel and continue through March 15. It will include many photographs, documents and forty-three photo- static copies of original works from the National Library of France. After March 15, the exhibition will tour the country. The exhibit is part of a series of activities in honor of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Victor Hugo. The show will be open to the public. In- accordance with the Hugo celebration, Mr. Rene de Messieres, cultural attache to the French Em- bassy, wiU deliver a lecture in Old Chapel, the evening of March 6. The lecture, in French,. is being presented in cooperation with the Modern Language Department of · Union College. overthrowal of a pro-Communist split up on two sides an-d riots regime. O'Loughlin announced the fol- usually break loose. But .curiously Rushing Seeks Tourist Tradf' lowing committee chairmen: Cor- enough the eo-eds at St. A.ndrews <Continued from Page 1) ---0--- Costa Rica. with a population respondence, John Moses; Room- are the ones who engag-e in flsti- freshmen spend perhaps two nights, equivalent to that of Schenectady ing, Jay Cohn; Program, Paul cuffs, much to the delig-ht .of the a week going to the various fra- County, hopes to undergo a funda- \Vonds; Publicity, Donald Schwutz; male students. Finally .a rector is ternities at Union. After the semes- mental change in the near future. ArtangPmPnte, Paul Carbone; We!- elected. He usually is a w-ell-ltnown ter period, as proposed by Franke, · H' .., · · comi~g David Platt. The Pan Amencan 1guway IS m · · person and Balneaves Dle:ntioned is completed, the frosh would have the process of being completed. Three new men were recently that last year the rect<>l' at St. visited each house perhaps four James Restcuarant • G06D FOOD at ·prices- you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State S.treet tHE ACME· BARBER S·HOP 509 UNION ST. \Where the Service is a Pleasure\ (Nearest to the Campus) Frank Lovejoy Richard Carlson Plus Pardon My French I WANT YOU Danna Andrews • Dorothy McGuire Plus Tb:e Family Secret Brian Donlevy Plus Hotel Sahara According to John, a big program elected to Delphic membership. Andrews was Scotland:s greatest or ·five times. Pranke argued tha.t win be undertaken to attract a They are: Dana B. Hanford and, comic. a fraternity would have little or large tourist trade. The climate is Edwin H. White, Jr., seniors, and It was apparent frolll t:he lee- no time to decide on v:(.hat pledges ideal~the temperature never going John J. Cas~dy, Jr~ aa~J~·u~n~i~o:~~--~tu~re~t~h~a~t~t~h~e~n~u~m~b~e~r~o1~a~pp~li~c~~~~th~e~y~\~va~n~te~d~;---~------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: below sixty-five degrees, and, in __ general, being somewhat better ' than Cuba fur a vacation play- ground. It is the hope of the pro· gressive factions in Costa Rica -,,\ that a large tourist tradt• can be > cultivated, industrialization can ~·· begin, and that a firm middle rlass ;t: can arise to rep1ac£' the present antiquated system. At Union John is studying econ- omics and hopes to join his family in the coffee iildustry and to enter the public service of his country. a--- Scull 'Wins Contest Norman E. Scull has been an- nounced as winner of the Letter to the Editor Contest for the month of February. He receives a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes. Each month the Concordiensis. in co- operation with Harvey Kronick, campus representative, awards a prize for the best Letter to the Editor. LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS I 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595j ~-------------------_j • W a+ches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired e Engraving, too! Jewlery Co. OVAUAt~ t/ . MILDNESS p~ NO UNPLEASA~T AFTER· TA~!~.o\ A WELL-KNOWN RESEA 'T I *FROM THE REPORT Of reRfiELD HAS -· D ONLY CHES li- - -- ••• AN - - Vol •. 7~ ''A NE A featur prodm nights will p will b \An partme ment i: will au the sho is not missior will no Feat1 Balnea domins neaves, studen1 the St. and w~ writin€ This v tact w Bruc neer a fraterr the pr• school make here a busine. and b in ad• publici cident: ] Ligh tion c more of Ka steps stage band • lady i place Riel conni' be SU' of Sc Jacqu Proxn Nanc~ The Street Profe Engli: ThE hard Pare! held 18-20. been out stu de :A IJ.as chani last , ent$ as pl Paul Iatio' HOI,lf and In be a folio The fact for I the At Delp poss the \An·1 Clul: ' 1 AnJ that to t 'COm limi Hall Tl was niit1 ,poiz Con yet den poi! mai terf ab

