g- s- y- 'Skeller Remains Open Next Week -Vol. 79, N~. 12 liatttnub 3Juhiltt Foun4ed at Union CoUege in 1877 SCHENECTADY, :N. Y., FRIDA-Y, JtANUARY 11, 1952 .• And Let's Not Forget West Point PRICE ~0 CENTS New Sty, le S.nowbrawl ,Nine. se.niors Diamond Juhile·e G d t The Concordlensis celebrates' Council Proposes Freshmen Logie Features Big- W.eekend:J.· ra ua e 2 ' 3 ~~t~::n\ty~!~t!E:;:i!:t~~ . . ' · an uary· . . paper in .America, A commem- With. snow and cold weather the order of the· day, ·plans. · orative issue 1s planned for Nine th 11 t February- 22 which will present for the Snowbrawl, Union's first info1·mal-style Winter, men, e sma es highlights of the concordy's • The Student Council went on record as favoring that number in post-war years, · h Weekend, are beginning to· gather momentum. Slated for w·· · 1 ., 11 be C··andidates for deg.rees past, featured by letters from future freshmen be given a choice between logic and fres - former editors and reprints of th th • 1· y cour e The meet1'ng was February- 22 and 23, thsi year's Weekend will have the back-· fr«!nh Union College as mem- memorable articles and pic- man ma as · err compu sor s • · · · ing of the Stude:n.t •Council and: student activities funds, bers of the January · 1952 .· tures. held last Wednesday night in Old Chapel. · · d t' 1 \\h 1 .,_ ______ ...._ _____ ..._--! Follows Concordy Proposal assuring more eo)llplete planning of more, appealing events ,gra ua Hi¥ .c ~ss. J: e c ass, The proposal for the substitution that has been offered by previous makeshift Winter func- ·.greatly ;dlffillllShed from last u: .n;o.n ·Gr. a· du·ates Not' .able of logic was submitted by John • hi h h f 'l d t d t 1 b · d th . · 1 J anua~y S 52 and the 78 of \ Moses and passed unanimously. tmns w c : a,ve ale o a equa e y ri ge .. e SOCia. gap ··1950 will have no formal . l G The suggestion will be forwarded between Fall and Spring Prom weekends. grad~ation program; and di- I' n L. oca· overnment to the faculty where it is hoped 'll t.. t d t I'-' that some action will be ta:ken on U se Local Band • · plomas WI · ~e presen e a th t Th f 11 c The college probably won't get any special consideration, e rna ter. is o ows a on- Use of Student Activity funds for u • A k d . the June ceremony. and the chances are that it will be of no help to a student cordiensis request for student sug- nl ·Oft· . . s e Informal Dirmer gestions for curriculum changes. the first. time will allow broadening· ·. · · , · 1'f he gets 1'n any local trouble but st1'll 1't rru.'ght g1've you President Carter E, Davidson · · · · · ' • The council also discussed the of the traditional program to in- .T H I p. k. will honor the graduating group an added sense of security to know that the City of Sche- forthcoming Winter Weekend. It elude events formerly omitted be-. 0 e· • p . IC . with an Informal dinner in Hale nectady is being run by Union men. is to be a f:ree affair, but those cause of their prohibitive costs. The·: ' · · > • ' House at 6:30 p.m., January 23. ~---~----------' who attend will be asked to con- . · c ta• b f th f Ity '11 Many Union Men tribute one dollar. The contribu- rnost important innovation will •be M·· , . ·.s . f. t• er 1n mem ers o e acu w1 · · k . ISS a e y also attend, at President Davidson's I F c B c s tion will be purely voluntary. The the \Snowbr!J.wl the first informal . .· . . , . . . At th d\ th d A new administration took over a band will .play from ,eight to twelve, . invitation, e mner e gra - · • ,. · • . college-wide dance ever to grace a ,uates will receive certificates of control of the City on January 1, and in addition the council is try- Winter Weekend. Union men have been re- ,graduation, which will serve as and a run-down of the leaders of New Ru'. sh' •• ng ing to arrange a wintt:~r carnival to A d 1 1 b cr \ll b · f of their completion of study the gro.up indicates that Un:ion _ take place In Central Park in the, goo . oca an Wl •. e en- quested to take part in an.'aptrooUn1·ou unt1\1 they re\el've thel·r afternoon, On Friday night all of d f th . d ce which is ~ University must of.fer a fine edu- s t • gage or IS an unusual traffic safety cam-· formal degr\leS in uJne. ugges lOllS the fraternities will hold an open scheduled .between the hours ·of pai'gn .T· he essense of thel'r· All of the men are candida.tes for cation ·in the field of local govern- ._ . . house with the exception of the eight and midnight on Satl.lJ:daYo' · Bachelor of Arts degrees. Eight of ment. The administrative head of Miami Triad fraternities which are Feb. 23. strictly informal in. char-. task will be to ca;:;e the prin.... them are majoring in the Social the City, the mayor,. mllst of the. A resoluti~n favo~ng a de- having their ball on that night. ·st d' 'c 1 ev n in Econ councilmen and many of the de~ ferred rushrng . penod was Provision was also made for fra- acter, the Snow brawl will combine cipal streets of Schenectady · u. Jes curn u. a, s. e ·.- t ·t· t d t b th . · · om1cs a!ld one m History. There 1s partmental personnel have had passed by an almost unani-. erm 1es o ecora e oo s on all the colo!\ of a standard prom . With an eye open for pretty one English major. connections with Union University ffiOUS vote at the lnterfra- Saturday afternoon, There will be with- the advantages of Jess all- gl···rls 'The candidates and their home ·n past years no charge for the booths. Some 1 · ternity Council's weeking transportation for the students aroun.d expE!nse. ' towns are: Bradford K. Coryell, Th ·t· · t d b Seek Miss Traffic Safety .. Oceans1·d· e,· John P. Kennedy, e c 1 Y\ manager, appom \' · Y meet1'ng held 1\n Ba1'ley Hall wishing to attend tlie carnival was Jay Cohn,. chairman of the Week- · the new City Council on th:• first . ·H d G M yl nd · Rich T d • ht Th C 'I' also discussed and it is hoped that .end,-stated that fraternities and the George T. Orick, Union '50, Sche-.: avre . ~. race, ar .·a : ., - of the year, is Morris :!'II. Cohn, ues ay n1g • e ounc1 S some can be arranged. nectady Traffi() FoundatiQn Co- ard J .. K_Illeen, Sc~enectady' Da' i~ former public health engineer of plan, which is merely in the Plan New Drl·ve Independent Coullcil will be en- ordinator is promoting a campaign B. ~mffm, Wes~fleld, New Jersey: the City. He is !!- graduate of form of a proposal,~ is to be couraged to choose themes for the ·to· seek Miss Traffic Safety of Calvm G. Schmidt, Valley. Strea~, Union in the class of 1921 , also rtl- 'd d b th f t •t Earlier in the evening William weekend and represent their motifs l952. Orick conte:Q.ds that all maJ:lU· Lawrence E. Sutter, Elii~Ira; _W!l- ceiving an M.S. in C.E. degree her~ COnSI ere y e ra emi y Pappas spoke for the Campus Chest . f t t th · P oducts lard G Taylor, New Paltz, Malcolm l·, . 1931 , houses thi's week. Fund which has not yet closed its by- booths. at the gym. Prizes. Will ac urers promo e e1r r · ., . . through the medium of luscious G. Thomas, Woodbury, New Jersey, The mayor is Archibald C. Wetn.· Hochuli New President drive. A new drive for pledges will probably be awarded. These acti- looking women, whether they ~tre .and Ralph F. Tuttle, Grand Gorge, ple, who graduated from Union in The plan has three alternatives, begin after the start of the second vities will highlight the arrortment .• sipp 1 ·ng· a. glass of beer or sitting L ...,, t t . IFC . semester. At the present time the 1927 and went on to Aloany aw accor..,ng 0 ou gomg · presl- Chest bas collected $1,889.60 in of special events planned to lend atop a yellow convertible. He says .· c·arr· oth· ers School. A Republican, he <lefea:ted dent Tayler, who is in this month's pledges. The reasons that the drive even more color to .the mele, which that this campaign amounts to a Union classmate in November's graduating class. Tay-ler will be re- has been e:xtended were due to the is expected to fill the gym, both \selling safety with sex.•• election, Owen M. Begley, Demo- placed by Robert Hocb,uli, the Beta . 11 f P d th t t A bevy Of Pretty gl 'rls has 1'n· H•t M'C'th cratic incumbent. Theta Pi representative, who is the 1 ness 0 appas an a no da es upstairs imd down, with a possible · · · - y had been set. vaded Orick'a City Hall office the · } S · · A holdover from laSt year's six- 'present Vice President, President David Walrath sug- 1000 pleasure-seekers. past few weeks as candidates for. man City Council is Samuel S. The three alternative ideas set gested that In the future the \This d·eal sounded almost too the title. The O!llY requirement is Dr. J. A. Carrothers, Minister of Stratton, a Democrat who served forth by the Council are: Campus Chest lower Its goal, good to be true,\ said Jay, \but it that a girl be pretty, intelligent, the First Methodist Church ·of as a. lecturer in philqsophy at 1. Deferred rushing until the A letter was received from form- is, what we've all been clamoring personable, single, and possessor Schenectady, spoke on civil Jiber- Union from i9 4 8-50. A new Re- middle of the first term, !ollowed er councilman Eric Schmidt, now for, .and the Council has given a ,of a driver's license. Armeq with ties in an address entitled \Flight pubiican member of the Council is by an active period .of rushing. attending Champlain C 0 11 e g e, clear track to plan li program that ·this, the winner shall be Schenec- From Freedom\ in Memorial Arthur (Whitey)· Boehm, oasketball 2. Deferred rushing until the thanking the Council for its letter evel'yone cah, and will want to tady CountY's. prime spokesi;nen for Chapel yesterday. . coach of Nott Terrace High School, end of the first term. of gre,titude for his work on the participate ln.\ safety for the balance of the year. Dr. Carrothers divided his talk who coached Union basketball 3~ Deferred rushing until the new constitution which was also No Charge . l'JBnned ·Orick claims that there is no between the subjects of disregard, teams during the war years. end of the first year, -·~· · '1 l\b \' h b ome Taylor stated that the houses are mailed to him. group in Schenectady with more · for C!Vl 1 er.1es. ~ own . Y s \We are ·SUre that the turnout interest, or with more ability, lni g~vernment o~f1o1als .. and the From Grad Schools committed to none of these plans, N S h 0 } h• will demonstrate that the student selecting such a girl than 'Union: fnght_ened, U~WISe_ ~ollctes of s<>_me ~enneth s. Sheldon, another Re- and that the Interfraternity Coun- ew . c . 0 ars IPS body, through the Council, can men He wants men from the col- American un1vers1ties surpres~mg publican elected to the Council, is cil's idea is to give impetus to de- H H stage a :worthwhile,. SUC(!essftll so- lege' tQ volunteer to . help in l:J,jis the ex~ression of unorthodox Vle\VS a Union graduate in the Class of ferred rushing, as well as sound out on or War ero cial event. There will be no charge. campaign. on the1r campuses. 1920 , Dr. Frank P. Marra, the ·opinions on it. If one plans re- for. anything now planned,\ asserted· Attack· 8 \Mcca· rthyism\ th· d R bl' d . 1 t ceives a clear majority in support, Two new scholarships in mem- Cobn, \however a donation up to · Award in February lr epu !Can name m as the IFC will consider the machin- ory of John J. Quinlan have been $1.00 at the dance would assure the \McCarthyism the controversial year's election, graduated from ery to make such an arrangement established at Union College as the 1 ·ecur:tance of such events in the The job would amount to carry- method employed by Senator Jo- Union in 1 925 and went on to AI- work. result of a gift of $1,200 by w. L. future.'' ing appllcatiQn forms in downtown· seph McCarthy of Wiscon~>in to bany Medical College. In qualifying the Council's usage Webster of Schenectady, it was an- Schenectady and getting girls to · t f T t th · th c·t • :Built around the big_ dance in the fill out these blanks· as contestants eliminate Commums s · rolll govern- he op · ree men m e 1 Y s of \deferred rushing\ Taylor said. nounced today by Dr. Carter David- weekend 's ·progra·.m ·w~ 1 - 11 ·'. b. e a bas·_ ment; was bitterly opposed by Dr. Jaw department, named by the city it was a period in which \frater.ni- son, President of the College. for the contest They could stop' Th ·1 · 1 d t f u · ketba.ll . gam<. Fr&'day n!'ght lll\s the . • Carrothers. e spea ter saw m manager, are a 1 pro uc s o mon tier; wo1,1ld p,Qt, invite fr.eshmen to The awards, to be known as the u ~ girls in the streets, dash out to · · t' ·1 · h u· • · c- t' 1 u~al fraternity open house parties them in their cars; or any other this an .unfair persecu Jon w uc mversJty. . orpora ton counse dinners, parties 01,\ similar social John J. Quinlan Memorial Scholar- and Prl 'vate affa.l'rs, n'lainsta,,s of can only lead to serious harm to Charles Ward Brown. graduated functions, with the possible excep- ships, will ,go to residents of Sche- ., ,ingenious method to enter con- · t 1 d h\cl for f Alb La S ·h 1 · 1927 t d C t It · ' t d d any W . eekel).d. The· M1\am1· Tr1'ad·, b 1 t d mnocen peop e an a ve 1 e · • rom any w c 00 m ; tion of home footba.ll games and nee a Y oun y. 1s u: en e testa. nts. The queen will e se ec e 1 tt · k 'th- t f\ t · t t L · J R\ Jd\ · dance ·will be repeated this year, in one Of the· downtown theaters, vicious persona a. ac WI ou Irs assts an OU!s . ma I IS prom weekends.\ If; however, the that the scholarships be used for and is scheduled for Friday so as fear of legal remonstrance. a graduate of Union, ·class of '22, fraternities do favor de:ferred rush- boys who not ordinarily be able to not to co!i.fllct with the college af- .sometime in F¢br1lary. Dr. Carrothers indicated a serl- and J\,Jbany Law, class of '26; and ing, its limitations would be left to afford college, who maintain at fair. Classes !J.S usual Saturday Orick requests any Union mthen ous concern over the refusal of in- second assistant Walter C. Shaw is their disci'iminatlon. least average scholarship, and who who would wish to help in e stitutions of higher learning to a member of the Union, class of '41,. · Plans for· Winter ·weekend display athletic abilltlest. morning may be livened up some- t · ·t h\ · h\ ff\ - what by co-ed CO!llpanlons, campaign .O· VlSI Im m IS 0 Ice permit freedom of discussion, ohe a.~d Albany Law, class of '47. In other business, the Council In establishing the scholarships, in CitY Ha~l at any time. ·of the basic duties of American But don't try parking in front concerned itself with the Winter Mr, Webster, who is president of A co-ed gatheriil.g for decorating d t• T. ·h t• 1 1 ·f th W b_.- M t s 1 c -~-o~· ~-- e uca 101)., . e par 1!1. oss o of a. fire hydrant. The police de- Weekend. The group designated e e \\\\r o or a es o. of the gym :tnay be supplanted by a academic freedom would be a partment is non-partisan. :Friday night, February 22, as the Schenectady, wishes to perpetuate \colossal wintei;' carnival\ about Ki h. . G' . bl t th A . . th J h Q . . s Imu· ·ra . tves· severe ow 0 e mencan way bfficial night for open house. The e memory of 0 n umlan, who whlcb nobody on the cOmi:!J.ittee d · 1 d · d t d f U · 1 th 1 of life, the fun amem:a emocracy group· is cooperating with the dance, gra ua e rom mon n e c ass .would make more than veiled re- · · · t k · · d f 1940. Q · 1 ed it C .I.ti•zeR'_ shJ.,p Seri·es WhiCh all men mus eep m l):lln M A . t d . committee in this respect, by ad- o. . . uman serv w h great fei:'ences. However, though its cold d\ · d t• , orse ppoJn e · d\ t• t· b b 'dl · when 1scussmg an . ·· ac_ mg upon . · · · vocating open house on a different 1s me 1on as a om ar er 1n outside now, start making plans matters .of civil liberty, , • • • night than the one on which the World War II until he was shot for a 'hot time at the coming Win- b t• \ 'T B ] · Ch · ter Snowbrawl. Continuing the series of lectures \Curtailment of basic li e: 1es, 0 RJ ey . . aJr dance is to be held. down over Denmark while on a on World ditizensl;lip; Bill Kishi-· declared Carrothers dynamiCally, . The only definite ex(leptions, to boniber raid to Poznan, Poland, mura, HE;LP student from Japan, \is caused by- the fear that a col:!l- President Carter Davidson of the . open house proposal will be \He was an outstanding young man . spoke in Memorial Chapel Tuesday. mon person cannot investigate ·u· . C 11 d t d th the houses that are members of the and a great credit to Union Col- 'Skelle•• Open · b t ·th crl\tt'cal· .,·ssues and· determ1\ne a ra- · mon t> ege anno!ln<ie 0 ay e 1 \ M w b t t t · hi . · .. on friendly relatiOns e ween e appointment ·of Dr. David Sherman Miami Triad~ Phi Delta Theta, ege, r. e s er s a es m s The Dutchme'n.'s Rathskeller · United States and Japan by means tiona! course of action. Whllh lead• Morse to the t•ecently established Sigma Chi and Beta Theta PI; announce~ent of the awards. \Be- ·\'ill· .. re..;ain· ·o·pe 11 - until Mondav,. of the :tntetna.tional Studenl associ-'· ers assume they must control the M · L .. B . 1 . Ch . f which comprise that group, will cause of his many sterling charac- ~ ·- ' thoughts of. thel·t· const1\tuents arle OUlse al ey rur 0 · ter' tl •t · · h d th h 1 .January lU, of exam week. Regu- ation of Japan. Mathematics. hold a form!!,! off-campus dance on IS cs 1 1S w1s. e e sc o ar- lar ho11rs wiii ,be ob$el'Ved for ·., This organization, founded in he continued, \our Civil liberties The cl;lair of Mathematics is the Friday night. ships be in his naine;'' every day, except Sunday, Janu- 19S4, held meeting ani;lually, alter- are put in the precariOl!S· position gift of .Mr. and Mrs. Frank Bailey The next meeting .of the Inter- Mr. Webster hopes to maintain . ary IS, whl?n the Rathskeller nating between Japan. and the of being dependent on the beliefs of New York City. Mr. Bailey, i;n fraternity Council will be held on these annual scholarships with will be o:pen to at lel!.st 9 p.lnl., United States, until the outbreak of and decisions of our religious and Nov-ember, completed 50 years of February 5. yearly gifts. !Uthoug)l it may remain {!pen , : World War II. The meetings were. politicai leaders.'' • service as Treasurer of the College. ----a---- until Umldnight. Anyone wish- . · not held in 1947 and Kishimura Rejects Regents Suggestion Professor Morse is a graduate of · Casting Notice Stewart to Retu1·n £ng to fif!d out whether .the . was a delegate to the conference in As an example of independent New Yorll; University. He received Professor Donald s. Jones and Rex Stewart, noted jazz trum- 'Skeller wiU remli,ln &pen after . · 1950. At that meeting, SO Japanese. thinking, Carrothers pointed t<> the his master's degree from Harvard the play production class have peter who parUcipated in a jam 9 p;m. Sunday nig-ht :ma.y tele- : · · and 60 American young 1nen dis- decision of his church's board re-. UiliV:erslty and in 1923 he was . announced that casting for session on campus last month, , .plione the office at Schenectady cussed such varied topics as re\ jecting the State Regent's boards • awarded a Ph.D. a't Cornell. Pro- · \Angel s~eet'' will be held the . plans a return visit sometime next · 2-8180. , ligion, po~ltlcs, sports,' and phil.- program for prayer in~ the public .fessor Morse, who has been a mem- 'Week of F(lbruary 4: COpies of month. Acco!)lpanied by a profes- , . Anyone wishing to work at : osophy. schools. For this they receiVed a· bet .of the faculty at Union sir.ce ' the play will be available at the siona.l clal'inetiat, he will play on the Rathslteller thi:S weelt showd • The main purpose of the .Associ-· deluge of criticism; Carrothers 1918;. was appointed chairman of library during, that weelt. All- a Wednesday night.. Stewart has call or visit thP Raths}teller or tion is to promote good relat:ions answered this by quoting the ensu- . the department of :Mathematics in nouncements will be made in . asked Union students to send re- cait Pat :Fugazatto at the .Sigma between the 'United States, whic}) ihg paragraphs . Of the proposal' 1944. !{e is a form(!r president of chl'l,pel ~d all those interested quests for his radio show, beard '·()hi !tense. . 1 Kishimura feels· is essential to which would lead to a. compre:p.en- the Middle. Atlantic District of Phi are urged to try out. Saturday nights at 7:05-8:00 p.m. peace in Asia. (Continued Qli Page 4) · · Beta Kappa. . · 1. . on WTRY.

' • to in- he 'Skeller Remains OpE:In Next Week Vol. 79. No. 12 iliamnu!t 3J u bilr :e Founded lit Union Cttlilege in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, .J;ANUARY 11, 1952 . .• And Let's Not Forget West Point PRICE 10 CENTS New Style S·now;brawl Nine Seniors Features Big W eekead Graduate Diamond Jubilee The Concordiensis celebrates its seventy-fifth year of publi- cation in 1952, making it the thirteenth oldest college news- paper in America. A commem- orative issue is planned for February 22 which will present highlights of the Concordy's past, featured by letters from former editors and reprints of memorable articles and pic- tures. Council Proposes Freshmen Logic .... January 23 With snow and cold weather the 0rcler of the day, :plans for the Sn.owl!>rawl, Union's first. informal-style Winter Weekend, are l!>eginning to gather momentum. Slated for February 22 and 23, thsi year's W€elend will have the back- ing of the Student Council and student activities funds, assuring more complete planning of rnore appealing events that has been offered by previous makeshift Winter func- tions which l1ave failed to adequately bridge the social gap Nine men, the srn.ailest number ill p0st-war years, will be candidates for degrees from Union. College as mem- bers of the January 1952 graduating class. The class, greatly diminished from last January's 52 and the 78 of 1950, will have no formal graduati0n program, and di- plomas will be ).!)resented at the June ceremony. between Fall and Spring Prom week'€nds. Use Local Band Use of Student Activity funds for the first time will allow broadening of the traditional progra;m to in- clude events formerly omitted be- cause of their prohibitive costs. The most important innovation will be the \Snowbrawl the first informal college-wide dance ever to grace a Winter Weekend. A good local band will be en- gaged for this dance which is scheduled between the hours of eight and midnight on Saturday, Feb .. 23. Strictly informal in char- acter, the Snowbrawl will combine all the color of a standard prom with the ad·vantages of less all- around expense. Jay Cohn, chairman of the Week- end, stated that fraternities and the Independent Council will be en- couraged to choose themes for the weekend and represent their motifs by booths at the gym. Prizes will probably be awarded. These acti- vities will highlight the arrortment of special events planned to lend even more color to the mele, which is expected to fill tne gym, both upstairs and down, with a possible 1000 pleasure-seekers. \This deal sounded almost too good to be true,\ said Jay, \but It is what we've all been clamoring for, and the Council has given a clear track to plan a program that everyone can, and will want to participate in.\ No Chat·ge Planned \We are sure that the turnout will demonstrate that the student body, through the Council, can stage a worthwhile, successful so- cial event. There will be no charge for anything now planned,\ asserted Cohn, \however a donation up to $1.00 at the dance would assure the recurrance of such events in the future.\ Built around the big dar.ce In the Weekend's program will be a bas- ketball game Friday night .piLlS the usual fraternity open house parties and private affairs, mainstays of any weekend. The Miami Triad dance will be repeated this year, and is scheduled for Friday so as not to conflict with tne college af- fair. Classes as usual Saturday morning may be livened up some- what by co-ed companions. A co-ed gatherin.g for decorating the gym may be supplanted by a \colossal winter carnival\ about which nobody on the committee would make more than veiled re- ferences. However, though its cold outside now, stat\t making plans for a hot time at the coming Win- ter Snowbrawl. 'Skeller Open Union Asked To Help Pick Miss Safety Informal Dinner President Carter E. Davidson will honor the graduating group with an informal dinner in Hale House at 6:30 p.m., Janua;ry 23. Certain members of the faculty will also attend, at President Davidson's invita;tion. At the dinner the grad- uates will receive certificates of Un.ion men have been re- graduation, which will serve as q uested to take part in an . proof of their completion of stutiy at Union until they receive their unusual traffic safety cam- formal degrees in uJne. P ai an.. The essense 0 f their All of the men are candidates for \\ Bachelor of Arts degrees. Eight of tasl\ will be to case the plin- them are majoring in the Social · 1 t t f S h t d Studies curricula, seven in Econ- mpa S ree S ° C enec a y omics and one in History. There is with an eye open for pretty one English major. girls. The candidates and their home towns are: Bradford K. Coryell, Seek Miss Traffic Safety Oceanside; John P. Kennedy, George r. Orick, Union '50, Sche- Havre de Grace, Maryland; Rich- nectacly Traffic Foundation Co- ard J. Killeen, Schenectady; Da,·id ordina.tor is promoting a campaign B. Kniffin, Westfield, New Jersey; to se.ek Miss Traffic Safety of Calvin G. Schmidt, Valley Stream; 1952. Orkk contends that all manu- Lawrence E. Sutter, Elmira; Wil- factur-ers promote their products lard G. Taylor, New Paltz; Malcolm thr()ug-h the medium of luscious G. Thomas, Woodbury, New Jersey, looking women, whether they are and Ralph F. Tuttle, Grand Gocge. sipping a glass of beer or sitting atop a. yellow convertible. He says that this campaign amount:s to \selli11g safety with sex.\ A bev:y of pretty girls has in- vaded Orick's City Hall office the past fe\17 wcelts as candidates for the title_ The only requirement ts that a. git\l be pretty, intellig'3nt, personable, single, and possessor of a .driver's license. Armed with this, the 11.•inner shall be Schenec- tady County's prime spokesmen for safety for the balance of the year. Orick claims that there is no group in Schenectady with more interest, or with more ability, in selecting- such a girl than Union men. J:Ie wants men from the col·· .lege to volunteer to help In tJ,Jis campalg-.n. Award in February The job would amount to carry- ing application forms in downtown Schen-ectady and getting girls to fili ol..i.t t.hese blanks as contestants for the contest. They could stop girls in the streets, dash. out to the:rn in. their cars, or any other ingeniolls method to enter con- testants. The queen will be selected in cn-e cf the downtown theaters, sometime in February. Orick requests any Union men who \IV()U!d wish to help in the campaig-n to visit him in his office in City :Hall at any time. Kishimura Gives Citiz:enship Series Continuing the series of lectures on World Citizenship, Bill Kishi- mu.ra HELP student from Japan, spoke: in Memorial Chapel Tuesday on friendly relations between the United States and Japan by means of the International Student associ- ation oE Japan. Carrothers Hits M'C'thy Dr. J. A. Carrothers, Minister of the First Methodist Church of Schenectady, spoite on civil libPr- ties in an address entit!Pd \Flight From Freedom\ in Memorial Chapel yesterday. Dr. CarrothPrs divided his talk between the subjects of disregard for civil liberties shown by some government officials and the frightened, unwise policies of somP American universitiPs surpressing the expression of unorthodox views on their campuses. Attacl•s \McCarthyism\ \McCat·thyism the controversial method employed by Senator Jo- seph McCarthy of Wisconsin to eliminate Communists from govern- ment, was bitterly opposed by Dr. Carrothers. The speaker saw In this an unfair persecution which can. only lead to serious harm to innocent people and a vehicle for vicious personal attack without fear of legal remonstrance. Dr. Carrothers indicatf'd a seri- ous concern over the refusal of in- stitutions of higher learning to permit freedom of discussion, one of the basic duties of American education. The partial loss of academic freedom would be a severe blow to the American way of life, the fundamental democracy which all men must keep in mind when discussing and acting upon matters of civil liberty. \Curtailment of basic liberties,\ declared Carrothers dynamically, \Is caused by the fear that a com- mon person cannot investigate critical issues and determine a ra- tional course of action. When lead- ers assume they must control the thoughts of their constituents,\ he continued, \our Civil liberties are put in the· precarious position of being dependent on the beliefs and decisions of our religious and politicai leaders.\ Rejects Regents SuggPstion The Student Cotmcil went on record as favoring that future freshmen be given a choice between logic and fresh- man math as their compulsory course. The meeting was held last Wed11esday night in Old Chapel. ~--------------------~ ,------------------------------~· Follows Concordy Proposal Union Graduates Notable In Local Government The proposal for the substitution of logic was submitted by John Moses and passed unanimously. The suggestion will be forwarded to the faculty where it is hoped that some action will be taken on the matter. This follows a Con- cordiensis request for student sug- gestions for curriculum changes. The college probably wo11't get any special consideration, and the chances are that it will be 0f no help to a student if he gets in any local trouble, but still it might give you an added sense of security to lnow that the City of Sche- nectady is being mn by Union men. Many Union Men ~------------------------------ A new administration took over control o-f the City on January l, and a run-down of the leaders of the group indicates that Union University must offer a fine edu- cation in the field of local govern- ment. The administrative r!ead of the City, the mayor, mCJst of the councilmen and many of the de-· partmental personnel hu·.·e had connections with Union Gnivet·sity in past years. The city manager, appointl'd by the new City Council on th ·• fil·st of the year, is Morris ~II. Cohn, former- public health engineer of the City. He is a graduate of Union in the class of 1921, also re- ceiving an M.S. in C.E. degree her~ in 1931. The mayor is Archibald C .. WeL11· ple, who graduated from Union in 1927 and went on to .Aloany Law School. A Republican, he uefeated a Union classmate in November's election, Owen M. Begley, Demo- cratic incumbent. A holdover from last year's six- man City Council is Samuel S. Stratton, a Democrat who served as a lecturer in philosophy at. Union from 1948-50. A new Re· publican member of the Council b Arthur l Whitey) Buahm, oa:oketbali coach of Nott Terrace High School, whu coached Union bal>ketbali teams during the war years. From Grad Schools Kenneth S. Sheldon, another Rt>- publican elected to the Council, is a Union graduate in the Class of 1920. Dr. Frank P. Marra, the third Republican named in last year's Plection, graduated from Union in 1925 and went on to Al- bany Medica! College. The top three men in the City's law department, named by the city manage1·, are all products of Union University. Corporation counsel Charles Ward Brown graduated from Albany Law School in 1927; first assistant Louis J. Rinaldi is a graduate of Union. ·class of '22, and Albany Law, class of '26; and second assistant Walter C. Shaw i3 a member of the Union, class of '41, and Albany Law, class of '47. But don't try parking in front of a fire hydrant. The police da- partmen t is non-partisan. ---0'--- Morse Appointed To Bailey Chair President Carter Davidson of Union College announced today the appointment of Dr. David Sherman Morse to the recently established Marie Louise Bailey Chair of Mathematics. I.F.C. Backs New Rushing Suggestions A resolution favoring a de- ferred rushing period was passed by an almost unani- mous vote at the Interfra- ternity Council's weeking meeting held in Bailey Hall Tuesday night. The Council's plan, which is merely in the form of a proposal; is to be considered by the fraternity houses this week. Hochuli New President The plan has three alternatives, according to outgoing IFC presi- dent Taylor, who is in this momh's graduating class. Taylor wili be re- placed by Robert Hochuli, the Beta Theta Pi representative, who is the present Vice President. The three alternative ideas set forth by the Council are: 1. Deferred rushing until the middle of the first term, .\ollowed by an active period of rushing. 2. Deferred rushing until the end of the first term. 3. Deferred rushing until the end of the first year. Taylor stated that the houses are committed to none of these plans, and that the Interfraternity Coun- cil's idea is to give impetus to de- ferred rushing, as well as sound out opinions on it. If one plans re- ceives a clear majority in support, the IFC will consider the machin- ery to make such an arrangement work. In qualifying the Council's usage of \deferred rushing\ Taylor said it was a period In which \fraterni- ties would not invite freshmen to dinners, parties or similar social functions, with the possible excep- tion of home football games and prom weekends.\ If, however, the fraternities do favor deferred rush- ing, its limitations would be left to their discrimination. Plans for Winter Weekend In other business, the Council concerned itself with the Winter Weekend. The group designated Friday night, February 22, as the official night for open house. The gt\oup is cooperating with the dance committee in this respect, by ad- vocating open house on a different night than the one on which the dance is to be held. The only definite exceptions, to the open house proposal will be the houses that are members of the Miami Triad. Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Chi and Beta Theta Pi, which comprise that group, will hold a formal off-campus dance on Friday night. The council also discussed the forthcoming Wintet\ Weekend. It is to be a free affair, but those who attend will be asked to con- tribute one dollar. The contribu- tion will be purely voluntary. The band will play from eight to twelve, and in addition the council is try- ing to arrange a winter carnival to take place in Central Park in the afternoon. On Friday night all of the fraternities will hold an open house with the exception of the Miami Triad fraternities which are having their ball on that night. Provision was also made for fra- ternities to decorate booths on Saturday afternoon. There will be no charge for the booths. Some transportation for the students wishing to attend the carnival was also discussed and it is hoped that some can be arranged. Plan New Drive Earlier in the evening William Pappas spoke fot\ the Campus Chest Fund which has not yet closed its drive. A new drive for pledges will begin after the start of the second semester. At the present time the Chest has collected $1,889.50 in pledges. The reasons that the drive has been extended were due to the illness of Pappas and that no dates had been set. President David Walrath sug- gested that in the future the Campus Chest lower Its goal. A letter was received from form- et\ councilman Eric Schmidt, now attending Champlain C o II e g e, thanking the Council for its letter of gratitude for his work on the new constitution which was also mailed to him. ---o,--- N ew Scholarships Honor War Hero Two new scholarships in mem ory of John J. Quinlan have been established at Union College as the result of a gift of $1,200 by W. L Webster of Schenectady, it was an nounced today by Dr. Carter David son, President of the College. The awargs, to be known ~ t,lH~ John J. Quinlan Memorial Scholar ships, will go to residents of Sche nectady County. It is ir. tended that the scholarships be used for boys who not ordinarily be able to afford college, who maintain at least avet·age scholarship, and who display athletic abilitiest. In establishing the scholarships, Mr. Webster, who is president of the Webster Motor Sales Co. of Schenectady, wishes to perpetuate the memory of John Quinlan, who graduated from Union in the class of 1940. Quinlan served with great distinction as a bombardier in World War II until he was shot down over Denmark while on a bombet\ raid to Poznan, Poland. \He was an outstanding young man and a great credit to Union Col- lege,\ Mr. Webster states in his announcement of the awards. \Be- cause of his many sterling charac- teristics it is wished the scholar- ships be in his name.\ The chair of Mathematics is the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Bailey of New York City. Mr. Bailey, in November, completed 50 years of service as Treasurer of the College. The next meeting of the Inter- fraternity Council will be held on FebL\uary 5. Mr. Webster hopes to maintain these annual scholarships with yearly gifts. ----0·--- Stewart to Return The Dutchmen's Rathskeller will remain open nntil Monday, January 21, of exam week. Regu- lar hours will be observed for every day, except Sunday, Janu- ary 13, when the Rathskeller will be open to at least 9 p.m., although it may remain open 1111til 12 midnight. Anyone wish- Ing to find out whether the 'Skeller will remain open aftpr 9 p.m. Sunday night may tele- phone the office at Schenectady 2-8180. Anyone wishing to work at the RathsltellPr this week should call or visit thP RathskPIIE•r or call Pat Fugazatto at the Sigma Chi house. This organization, founded in 1934, held meeting annually, alter- nating between Japan. and the United States, until the outbreak of Wmld ~ar II. The meetings were not ll.eld in 1947 and Kishimura was a delegate to the conference in 1950. At that me~ting, 60 Japanese and 50 American young men dis- cussed such varied topics as re- ligion, politics, sports, a.nd phil.- osophy. 'Ih-e main purpose of the Associ· tion· is to promote good relations ·betw-een the United States, which Kisltim ura feels Is essential to peace ln Asia. As an example of independent thinking, Carrothers pointed to- the decision of his church's board re- jecting the State Regent's boards program for prayer in the public schools. For this they received a deluge of criticism. Carrothers answered this by quoting the ensu- ing paragraphs of the proposal which would lead to a comprehen- Professor Morse is a graduate of New York University. He received his master's degree from Harvard University and in 1923 he was awar<led a Ph.D. a:t Cornell. Pro- fessor Mot·se, who has been a mem- ber of the faculty at Union sir.ce 1918, was appointed chairman of the department of Mathematics in 1944. He is a former president of the Middle Atlantic District of Phi Beta Kappa. Casting Notice Professor Donald S. Jones and tile play production class have a1mounced that casting fo1· \Angel Street\ will be held the week of February 4. Copies of Ute play will be available at the library during that week. An- nouncements will be made in chapel a.:tJ.d all those interested are urged to try out. Rex Stewart, noted jazz trum- peter who participated in a jam session on campus last month, plans a return visit sometime next month. Accompanied by a profes- sional clarinetist, he will play on a \Vcdnesday night. Stewart has asked Union students to send re- quests for his radio show, heard Saturday nights at 7:05-8:00 p.m. on WTRY. (Contlnued on Page 4) I

• 2 O!nutnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Ath·er- tls!ng Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service. Inc., College Publishers Repvesentatice, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial O!fice,Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Gw.. Ztlttu Preti\ 334 State BL Entert\!l in tl]e Schenec. tady Post Office as ~c- · ond Cia..'\' Mail M·n:tter, sub~criptlon JOe a copy; $3 yea·r ·delivered any- where in the Unl ted States. SENIOR BOARD DONALD E. SCH\VAR'T'Z '52 .......................... E!uitor-in·Chief WILLARD G. TAYLOR '52 .......................•... Associate Editot· JOHC\! J. CARHIDY JR. '53 .......................... ~ranag·ing Editor IRWI~ S. BAHO '53 ..................................... Sports Editor l'I!ONROE SILVIo;HMAN '52 ............................ Feature Editor li!ARTIX B. liOfl])O;-.; '54 ................................ Copy Editor ALFRED L. GULDBI:RGEH '54 ••..•.•.....•.•..••••.••.. Copy E<litor ALAN S. FOHMAN '53 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . Photography Editor GEOHGE J. WfllJBBL '53 .................. Acting Businescl :llanager HUHAC'E VA:--: \'UA!:'T '5~ ....................•.. Circula-tion :\tanager JU NlOlt BOARD HERBERT L. SPlltA '54 • . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . Assistant Copy Editor !tlAR'l'l); HAUSE It '55 ......• , .. , ... , •••........ A~sistaut Copy Editot ALI<'RED H. KI!'GON '53 ........ , ........... Assistant Feature Editor HERBERT L. HILLER '52 .................•........ Exchru1ge Editor HOWARD BRODY '62 . . . . . • . . . . • • . . • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . Exchange Editor ROBERT SILVEIUIA.:-<\ '53 .. ,,,,, ....... , .Assistant Bu:;iness l\lanager CLTHTH:l BAT!<;;> '53 ......... , , .... , , .. Asclh;tant Circulation .:llanager REPORTERS Peter Adler, :llarvin Boris, Herbert Guston, Hichard Heimann, Gary Katz Lewis Klein Eliot !..osha!<, ~!arlin l'm,tnoy, Arthur Hosenfeld, Stewart Robinson, 'walter Salm, Alfred Scott, Donald Simmons, David Smith, Arthur Stoclrman, Herbert \\'llliams, Paul Gilbert. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Beck, Lawren<·e Greenberg. CIRCULATION STAFF J. Lowell Davis, Joe Martin, David Brown, James Fitmaurice, !Uchard Borst, Robert S eydel. Review and Preview The calendar is wise enough to allow for one extm day in the year's run. Too- many things were left undone in 1951 that should be done in 1952. On a national scale, the year is destined to be a busy one. We seem headed for one of the busiest, most hotly contested presidential election years in history. The Olympic Games are scheduled for this year. Added to all this, there is a multitude of things in prospect on the campus. A full fledged campaign has been underway the past few months to dispel student apathy. The Concordiensis has attempted this through political symposiums and through its editorials and columns. Student forums were planned for Monday chapels and one has already been con- ducted. We feel strongly that this campaign should be car- ried through in 1952 and should achieve the success it failed to realize in 1951. Should Continue Student Forums Student reaction to the forums, in particular, were dis- appointing; so much so as to hold up further :forums. The idea, started by Jay Cohn, was, we feel commendable and deserves a much better reception than it received. We urge the Student Council to continue the forums. The success whcih we feel the symposiums have attained indicate- that the student body may be willing to be jarred from its com- fortable apathy. The IFC this past week overwhelmingly backed the idea of deferred rushing. This plan has the support of the Con- cordiensis. This is another of the improvements that re- ceived impetus in 1951 and should be pushed to realization in 1952. It is most advisable to complete the plans for de- ferred rushing by this Spring in order that it may become effective in the Fall. An overhaul of the college curriculum has been under- way for some time. Committees are investigating the cur- riculum for the first two years and the integration program. This is not only a tasl< for the faculty committees, but also one for the students. We feel that a more satisfactory result will be produced if the students give serious thought to the problem of the curriculum and voice their opinions through the medium of their student newspaper. The Concordiensis is anxious to present to the faculty committees student senti- ment on the problem. Serious Thought on Curriculum A word of caution should be entered here. Expressing opinion on changes in the curriculum should not be mere gripe sessions. What the Concordiensis would lilce to reflect to the committees is a composite of cat·efully thought out answers to the problem. This is possibly the most import- ant thing concerning the campus that was started in 1951 that shouldbe completed, or greatly advanced, in 1952. In addition to finishing things that were started last year, certain things ought to be started this year. A reorganization of the Mountebanks, we feel, is neces- sary to the campus. We do not feel that a drama class is sufficient, but a student activity is tile proper medium for presenting drama on this campus. The Concordiensis urged a reorganization of the chapel programs last year. We feel the1·e should be fewer chapels with a smaller point requirement. This would eliminate the necessity of presenting a chapel program for its own sake rather than presenting a high calibre program. We would like to see the emergence of the Independent Council as an active group. Its mere formation accomplishes nothing, but its active partiCipation in the social life of the campus would achieve a great deal. We urge an outdoor commencement for this year. Much has already been started on this, but 19fi2 would be the first post-war outdoor commencement. It is likely that gradua- tion ceremonies will be held on campus this year, even if in Memorial Chapel. This is a step in the right direction, but we feel it will be most satisfactory if graduation is held on Alexander Field in late afternoon. Most of all, we urge students to express themselves on matters that concern them. A healthier atmosphere will prevail on campus if students take an intel'est in college life !'ather than permit things to slide by. You have our suO'- gestions for improvement-now we'd like to hear yours. \' D, E. S, FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1952 I THE VERY IDEA By Jay N. Cohn Don't Touch My Gaw-Damn Coffee!! What this country needs is a guy 11amed Joe! It doesn't matter much if !:;tis last · name is Doake;:; or O'S h a n n o n or Zolofsky or Gold- berg-as long as be's a guy named Joe. It all came to me a few ago. I w.<ts knee deep in \one of those frequently heated· sessions these days on the subject of who . should be the next President. Everybody in the group was shoot- ing off about hi's particular choice for the job, and finally the ques- tion was put to me. As has been my custom in the past few months, I just shrugged my shoulders and said, \I really don't know.\ But then it carr.e to me. For the first time I realized· \Why none of the prospecti:ve candidates ap- pealed to me, and I knew that it was right that they didn1t. For the first time I knew who the next President should be. ';!'hat is, I th .,. z. • ,J d · knew what kind of person he C eater Wrdl\te. should be, for if I was acquainted J '' B k B d with him by name the chances are , oey B.y ·Rai·e·'-.~d, G. Hoe;~.·n~. oar 8 ,, ~~e j~~ldn't be the right man for ....._ ~~ What I'm getting at is this. All !..! =============================~· these men whose names have been bandied about as possible presi- Revival time in New York, \Pal Joey,\ musical comedy of a decade ago, reopened on Broadway last week. Book is by John O'Hara of Rage to Live fame, music by Richard Rodgers, and lyrics by the late Lorenz Hart. What was an en- joyable evening· ten years ago, has turned into a ma- jor theatre experi- ence today. The essence of its val that \Pal Joey,\ unlike most musi- cals, tries to be nothing other tl!an what it is: musical\comedy. group, who meet with any problem in production, can fall hack on the services offered by ANTA. The trained' staff of this organization is ready and willing to help in any capacity at any time. All the group has to do is explain their .problem in relation to their own physical outlay, and this expert advise is theirs. dential candidates could not pos- sibly make good Presidents. I've reached a conclusion about the qualifications that a man needs to be President these days, and none of these men come close to meeting them. No doubt these qualifica- tions are particular for the time. In four years or eight the require- ments may change, but the fact re- mains that at this particular time in American history, these are the qualifications - and perhaps the only ones-necessary for our chief executive. Our next President must (1) have no enemies, (2) have common sense, ('3) be honest, and (4) be humble. That's all he needs. Tbe rest will take care of itself. There must be at least one American citi- zen walking the streets these da(Ys who can meet these simple require- ments. But he won't be found in the Pentagon or on the floor of Cong·ress· or in a Governor's man- sion. He must be sought out in the cities and- towns. and farms -of the nation. We are searching for a reader and maybe -that is our mista,ke. Leaders a11e not made by .campaign speeches and publicity. Pevhaps a strong leader is just what we d()n'·t want today, No man can lmow all there is to know about the complex policies of a government, and a .st110ng leader n:ay have the> tend- ency to bring pre-conceived ideas and prejudiced opinions into the presidency .. Rather thari a man determined to follow a definite policy at an(Y cost, we need ·someone who can surround himself with experts in every field. Foreign. policy should not be dictated by one man,. but should be shaped ·by a board of ex- perts intimately acquainted with the problems of the particular areas under cons(deration. We need a man V\ho can ·sit back and watch a true democracy in action. Today, more than any other time in history, it is imperative that the American people present a unified front to the world. We must con- vince our friends and enemies alike that in this country we are prac- ticing the ideal form of gGvern- ment-a working democracy, Poli- tical differen<:es should be forgotten and a search should be started to find the man for the job of Presi- dent-a man with those four quali- fications. International problems are cer- tainly more important today than petty political wrangling. Let's find our guy named Joe and. have him nominated .by both parties. He may be a banker or a laborer, a: doctor or a miner, a salesman or a farmer, but let's find him ·before it's too late. As long as he has no enemies to 1 undermine him, com- mon sense to do what is best for his country, a sincere honesty to select capable co-workers and policy-makers repvesenting a var- iety of views and to give the coun- try honest .government, and a deep humility to accept criticism and right any wrong's, he will succeed. Joe, wh<Jever and wherever you are, we need you. Let us pray that we find you in time. In contrast to the \smahtel'•\ musical, Joey is refreshingly un- pretentious. The night-club routines, dance orgies, and sequin costuming serve to present us with an unpar- alelled spectacle of self-parody. All in very good taste, however. For where \Joe\ is dirty, it is not tawdry, and where it is funny, it is not ha-ha funny. The music, as can be expected when Rodg-ers' name is found on the playbill, is much more than adequate, wit:h lyrics of wit by Hart wl)ich are since unmatched. All in all this is what Aldous Huxley would call a Saturnalian kermess. Shows you what kind of cocktail parties I go t<J! It is also possible to get \big\ names to visit the sites of such organizations, either for the pl,lr- :pose of reviewing their efforts or directly taking part in them, in such capacity as direction, scene de- sign or acting. Most of the people working for ANTA are working for minimum Equity salaries-they are taking part in these activities not because it is a way of making a living (for it hardly paysl, but be- cause they believe that it is their efforts and the efforts of people interested that will ultimately bring about better theatre for more peo- ple. These are the \Big\ people. But their bigness is not onjy in name-they realize a crying need for help, and have .put themselves in a position where they can do the most good. Placement A more sober topic of import of which most of us are unaware is that of the duties of ANTA. Sup- ported by subscription and contri- bution, ANTA performs a great service for the benefit of all ama- teur groups. Any such interes~ed Letter to the Editor Dear Mr. Schwartz: General Eisenhower received your recent letter and the copy of the One of their most important services is one which is indirectly felt. It lies in experiment. This organization, where others might balk, stands more ready to try new techniques. An example of this might be found in the script for a show to be presented later this year, an adaption of Edward Fin- ney's \The Circus of Doctor Lao.\ H can be a flop, to be sure, but at least by departing from established norms, there is a .possibility of mak- ing that big step forward. :Registration Sunday, Feb. 3-Gymnasium political symposiJ.im which appeared All Undergratuate Students (in- in the November 30th edition o:f eluding Specials); those whose last the CONCORDI:E:NSIS. He }Jar;; names b~gin with: asked mc to reply in his behalf and to thank you for writing him. The General thinks that the sin- cere interest in public affairs which prompted the CONCORDIENSIS Staff to publish this symposium ·is most commendable. It was thoughtful of you to offer- General Eisenhower the opoprtun- ity of commenting on the sym- posium. However, the General, : a military commander charged with a mission of vital interest to the United States and to .our allies in NATO, does not feel it would be proper for him to make statement concerning_ the American political scene. For this reasor., he has avoided commenting on any mat- ters such as those raised in your symposium. With every good wish, Sincerely, C. CRAIG CANNON Lt. Colonel, ADC Aide to General Eisenhower Notice Students working for their room and board or room or board must see Miss Travis by .January 23 in order to be excused for the Febru- ary-June, 1952 term. A thru Camp at 2:00 P.M. Can thru Diclr at 2:15 P.M. Dill tlu·u Glen at 2:30 P.M. Go thl'U Ho at 2:45 P.M. Hu thru Lay at 3:00 P.M~ Lea thru Mob at 3:15 P.M. Mok thru Pru at 3:30P.M. Pu thl'U Shi at 3 :45 P.M. Sho th1•u Tre at 4:00 P.M. Tro thru Z at 4:15 P. M. DOORS WILL BE CLOSED AT 4:30P.M. Registration bas been so ar- l'anged that students need not re- turn to the camjlus until Sunday. 'It is impe1·ative, therefore, that each student report promptly · at the hour designated. NO ADJUSTMENTS IN SCHED- ULES WILL BE M.ADE ON SUN- DAY EXCEPT FO:R, THOSE STU- DENTS WHO HAVE FAILURES F'OR THE FIRST SEMESTER . Tuition will be collected on Sun- day, February 3, at the Gymnasium du1;ing the Registration Period. l'lease make an checks payable to Union College. A Clharge of $5.00 is made for late 1·egistration al!d payment of tuition. Mr. R. F. Livingston, Personnel Manager of Mercantile Stores Com- pany, 128 West 3fst St., New York City, writes that he will visit the campus as usual, in the spring. Meanwhile, there are places for men in their junior executive train- ing program, and Mr. Livingston will be glad to s2e men who will graduate in January, or have graduated. If you intend to see the repre- sentatives of the Bell System when they come her~. be sure to pick up the Application for Interview now. L. G. BALFOUR CO. ~· Fraternity Jewelers BADGES - RINGS - FA.VORS JE'WELBY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY- PROGRAMS CLUB PINS ... KEYS MEDALS - TBOPltiES Write or c8ill. CARL SORENSEN 30 :Murray Ave. Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TROY-AD~ S-2523 For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here William H. Plath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET We Need Your Head To Run Our Business! M.odel Barber Shop Hermah Farone, Prop. 435 Liberty Street • Across 1r~;~m Ga.llo's Those who have already taken the blank should return it to the of- fice now. The Beil System has openings for men in all courses. If you are among the seniors who have been too busy to drop in at Wells House, come now. You can sit down here and do the. basic record sheet in ten minutes, for the data requires no research. Interview with duPont are listed for Monday, Feb. 4. There are still open hours, and those who have already signed up should keep this in mind, since it is the first day of the second term. We Have Them if its Slacks or Pants 1,000 Fairs to Pi* From ROCHESTER PANTS StORE (New Location) 115 BROADWAY Between State and Sinith Sts. VICTORIA Restaurant - Specializing in Italian Foods Jay Sireet (Cor. Union) LUM FUNG Res:faurant BEST LIQUORS f . AND COCKTAILS ~~:~ .. ~::·:-~:~~5.1 J FRIDAY ( - I supp a spirit < prevail, really cc would· li of the 'tb .for awl: I havE school ~ once I gratitud. exp·erien he only around; than OVI The 1 should t that we what WE sports ,Q ways c Al()ng ~ state of If a pel aCtivity tude, ve appear so on. · A ca~ basketbl Union compeU ing thei ofageous it doesn ting m1 con.feret It gal beat• th~ student tearing that is, league and fa~ letically pretend what w of situ~ than d ships t afraid 1 vents h a grOUJ) ing thE needs support migltt! illvecth speciali In vi· become Minerv. 'taste t< about game, thing such u: Also titude team I treatm• odd fu point ;played to a cc style t c

I FRIDAY. JANUARY 11, 1952 Rochester Next Court Fo·e; Drop Five in Row Coach Senn Starts Swimmers W il.l Trai.n; Practice for Skiers 'wi~~it~~a~~o;;~c~ ~~n~e~~~pf:~~ Winning Skein Ended whole new team when he began By Lew Klein his first practice sessions during Coach Ray Mullane will be putti:p.g his swimmers throup;h , the Christmas vacation. With the some tough practice .sessions in the next three ~eeks m After five games on the road, the loss~weary Garnet fi.ve exception of Jim Cusato, none of anticipation of the contests on the second half of this year's :the boys skiied at the college last C tl h ld' 3 1 d tl G t r wBI enjoy a three week midterm respite before journeying year. schedule. urren y o Ing a - recor , · 1e arne me - to Rochester February 2. ').'he Yellowjackets have beate:n; In the several sessions that have men will get back on the competitive trail again when they Union for the last four years running and wiH be out to already been .held, ~to the ski team meet Fordham in Foote Memorial Pool, on February 6. By John Kennedy • . . has been making use of a few of The whole varsity squad will~ · I suppose that ·in my Ia~t column prove thmr mastery next month. On February 6, the Dutch- the local trails: Wolf Hollow, AI- spend their vacation, between sem- a spirit of a farewell address should men return to the Alumni Gymnasium to face Hamilton in pine, Quarry Tra~l. and Hickory esters, on the campus runr.ing prevail, although r can think of no, the Garnet's fi'rst home t'l·t . th 'd D . b WI'n among others. Wrthout asny me.n through' an intensified tr-aining pro- Wh t I . · · ' . · · · l ' SinCe e mi - 'ecem er . ' with racing experience, enn IS gram. Mullane hopes to be able to really compelling reasons. a would like to .get across are some over McGill. still working on the fundamentals work down the times of some of of the things that I think necessary The Union courtmen ran their~ and will not be ·able to expect ~oo his stars during that period and .for a wholesome college spirit. .losing streak to five in a row last 'much from his .boys when t ey the team, generally, wiU have to Wednesday as Yevmont turned on. son's log now stands at one win get into competition. get back into shape after the I have always tried to show my the steam to walk away with a against eight losses. DUl'ing the· Schedule Indefinite Christmas layoff. h ·ol \'l.rit 1'n thJ·s· column· and midterm layof. f, Nistad plans to sc 0 s\ · · • 70-50 victory. The one ·bright ·light The schedule for the coming Ti'~hmen Strong I ven tr'ed to express my work on defense. The Dutchmen ....,... onee e 1 in the D~J,tchmen's defeat was the have allowed an average of 76 season has not been fixed yet. The Dutchmen were hand.ed their gratitUde for the benefits and fine r· b 11 h dl' d 1 t' 1 h 'f me a - an rng an super a rve por'nts .per game for the last fr've There are two definite meets a - first setback at Williams just .prior exp·eriences ·one can receive ere 1 h t' · · f Gl K' h · D' · s oo mg o enil mns, w o · ready; one .is the Western Ivis10n to the recess. A well balanced ar.ci. he only opens his eyes and looks d 20 · · t t · h' 1 d outmgs. h' h th . th score porn s , o Increase rs ea T·he Garnet wr'll be out to avenge. of the state sectiona:ls, w 1c e very strong Ephmen team over- around with an appreciative ra, er · th G t' N 1 · d' 'd 1 · - as · e · arne s o. m IV! ua 1 t · school is entered in every year, po\'.ered Union bv a 4.9-35 count, than overly Cl'itical bias. u . , 11 ' as year's 84-52 defeat by Roch~ ... J scorer. · mons garr.e was rea Y ester when they travel to the Yel- and th other is an invitation· at sweeping all but three first places. The main thing tiJ,at we all lost from the foul Hne as the Gar- 1owjacltet's home court on Febru- Norwich. W·hen it is completed, the Two· records were set during the should bea.r in mind here at Union net converted· but twelve of 33 ary 2 . sched·ule should run· to the end of mjlet. The Garnet's Dick Hart- that we. get out of something just charity tosses, Union G F P Vermont G F P February or the beginning of mann lowered his own 200 yard what we .put into it. Whether it be Lose to Champlain Kinns 10 o 20 Merrick 6 1 13 March, with about six meets. backstroke mark· from 2:27.1 to sports •Or tudies the results a.re al- On Tuesday night the Dutchmen fi1uHay 3 I 7 Jampolis 3 2 8 Coach Senn is still looking for 2:26. Dick also came in second in d d Zepf 0 0 0 Meyer 1 0 2 W th ways correlated to .the efforts. roppe ·a comparatively close con- Sth'tzman 2 3 7 Malinvernl 2 3 7 · any skiers with some ability to the individual med!Py as or - Along with efforts goes the .mental test to Champlain, 73-62. Kinns Baran des 0 1 1 Rothchild 1 o 2 come out for the practice sessions. ington, of the home team, broke his .st ate of the ind•ividua. 1 concerned. with 18 markers and frosh ,Dale Christie 1 1 3 Campana 3 4 10 Any men interested must be able school record with a 1:41.3 pffort. w Su tka 2 1 5 Clairmont 1 0 2 1:1; a person approaches .a team or Christry with 15, paved the way in Batki'wicz o 2 2 Jasinski 3 4 10 to ski, though they need not have In a close finish, Bob Dorse cap- activity with, a Sl!llall or petty atti- Union's scoring column. The Gar- Parisi o 1 1 Fleishman 1 0 2 any racing experience. Also, the tured the 50 yard dash. Art Fink, t d t b ' k' 't 1 Whitman 0 1 1 Gaffney 1 0 2 · t 't 'f tude, very likely what he sees will ne appea.re o e rna mg 1 a rea Davenport 0 0 0 Steinma!l 5 2 12 team would apprecJa e 1 1 any Dorse, Dick Stark, and Werner appear to be small or petty, and battle until the third period when Gilfillan 1 1 3 old, odd skiis that are lying around Reiners teamed up to take the clos- so on. . Pete Nistad's charges began to Totals 19 12 50 Tot-als 27 16 70 the fraternity houses were turned ing 400 yard relay. High man of come apart at the •seams. The pre- Union · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · 16 10 12 12 - 50 in to the gym to be cut down for the afternoon was Don Jones, of A · · t · th t 1 t 't h ld Vermont ........... 20 16 20 1~70 k\ case m pam rs e curren · vioUsly .sharp defense os 1 s · o 0 cross-country practice s 11s. Williams, who won the 220 and 440 basketball team that represents and Champlain pulled away to cap H c The candidates who have showed yard events. Reiners and Duffy Union College in intercollegiate the win. ammerstrOffi UtS up for practice up to date are trailed Jones home in each of competition, They are really fac- In the first game .after the end Borst, Branson, Clunis, Cusato, those races. ing their \slings and arows of out- of the Christmas vacation, the JV CagerS to 15 Kline, Harvey, LaBarge, MacCor- Seek 9 _ 1 Record ofageous fortune\ this winter and Union quintet was crushed 75-43 mick, Peterson, Pirnie, and Gustaf- it doesn't appear that they ar-e .get- by a CCNY team whose ranks were After an excellent turnout for son. Since the Ephmen dashed Union's ting much protection from their recen:tly riddled by the basketball tryouts, Sam Hammerstrom, on the --------------- hopes for an undefeated sea§on, conferers here at Union. investigation. However, the Beav- basis of a quick and highly con- Mullane's charges appear to be a ers, coached by the famous Nat tested elimi;nation, made his final of the games, is: good bet to end the campaign with It galls me beyond description to H'olman, were no .pushovers as they cut last Monday. The men who Feb. s-•Hamilton a 9-1 record. They finished the heru• the voice .of the Union College displayed a well-coordinated offense have been left will make up this Feb. 9- Albany State 1950-51 season with the same mark. student body, radio voice that i!', and a tight zone defense which was year's Junior Varsity basketball Feb. 13- Albany BC with Williams supplying the one tearing our boys apart, verbally ·handicapped only by a lack ·of team. Hammerstrom was forced to Feb. 16-*RPI defeat again. Only Fordham, in that is, because .they don't play big height. cut down the original sixty men Feb. 20-*Trinity the next meet, should prove a league basketball. Let's gr!JW up The Garnet was not treated very who showed up for the first seb- Feb. 22--*Cobleskill threat to the \Flying Dutcbmen.\ and face facts. Union is no-t a.th- well during the Christmas season. sion, to the fifteen he has at Feb. 27-*Albany BC City College, which is the follow- letically big league, nor does it The .Union cagers could do no bet- present. Feb. 29- Hamilton ing contest of the Urion schedule, pretend to be. Why not appreciate ter than lose successively to Hofstra Four sophomores are being held Mar. 8- RPI fell easy victim to the borne team what we have and make the best and Brooltlyn Poly on the 21 and on the squad: Paul Long, Joe Wil- * Home Games last year and does not appear to be of situations that are real, rather 22 of December. kinson, Bob Mayer, and Bob Wood- ~~~ii:;:~~~=========~==============n than. dream of NCAA. champion- • Hofstra racked up 82 points to worth. The freshmen on the C'lub ri ships tha.t are unattainable. I'm Union's 38 while rolling to its tenth are: Jim Carrlss, Earl Wheeler, afraid that our Phi Sig Steve Ellis straight victory. This skein was Mort Silver, Jerry Tischenkel, vents his anger of frustration upon broken, however, shortly after the Larry Brettshneider, Dick Rubin, a group of honest kids who are do- Union tilt. Hofstra's flying dutch- Dave Gregory, Dick Havill, Bob iug their best, and when morale men were really hot against the Albrecht, Steve Muller, and Je9se needs lifting most, any possible Garnet fast-breaking to thirteen. Dickson. support that our radio announcers points before Union could score. The boys will remain here ov<>r might give is lost in the particular With a 30-9 half-time lead, the out- the mid-year recess to practice for invective that our radio experts come wasn ever in doubt and Hof- their opening game against Hamil- speeiallze in. · stra continued to pour it on to win .ton on February 6. Coach Ham- going away. · merstrom, though not naming a Union Scores 60 . starting team at this point, believes LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY \The College Students Drug Store\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. Nott Terrace and State Street Ray Mullane considerably strengthened. Next in order are meets with the Coast Guard Academy, and Hamilton, Rochestc>r, and RPI, who have proved easy victims already this year. During the Christmas break, the Union coach and junior Bob Dorse, along with Bob Diamond, took part in the annual swimming Forum held in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. This conference held for two weeks features lectures, practice sessions, and an Ea~t-liVest meet, partici- pated in by swimmers from most of the leading schools in the country. Mulla.ne Coaches East Dorse was entered in several re- lays for the East and, according to (Continued on Page 4) GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 State St.-since 1895 The next night wail' no better as that we have an aggressive team Brooklyn Poly duplicated Hofstra's and is lookinf orward to a suc- 82 point spree. The engineers, how- cessful season. had a much tougher time winning ever, allowed Union 60 points and =~T~h~e~sc~h~e~d~u~l~e=, ~i=n~c~lu~d~i=n~g~t~h~e~rc~s~t~~=============~r~=============~~~=============F it. Brooklyn just had too much of · Also in this !matter of a fair at- a height advantage for the Dutch-. In view of the fact that \we all become brothers under the laws of ,Minerva,\ I thinlt it rather in poor taste to utter desparaging remarks about any reserve who enters a game, a person who has done no- thing in·- the game yet to merit such unfair comments. men to overcome. Despite the new titude to sports. I think .that all style offense utilizing two platoons team members should merit equal which Nistad devised, Union was treatment over the ethel', It seemed unable to score consistently enough odd to me that the Union high· to win, point man in the CCNY game Since beating McGill 72-55 Union ;played second or even third fiddle has been unable to get into the to a couple of other players whose winning groove again and the sea- style the announcer lilted. Robert Young-Betsy Drake also Street Bandits Burt Lancaster also Honeychiie · •Ray Milland-Patricia Roe also China. Corsair LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food I 125 BARRETT ST. Schen. 6-9744 Enloy our Sizzling Steaks and Chops G R E E T I N G C A RD S For All Occasions ACE Stationery Store \Finest Selection Anywhere\ 24-Hour Photo Service 177 Jay Street Nea.r S!;ate St. FE·RRO'S RESTAURANT Mr. and Mrs. George Ferro. Proprietors /' 1115 Ba11reH St. PRIVATE ROOM FOR PARTIES Specializing In ltallan·Amerlean Food PHONE 6-9554· The girls go for the guys who go for Arrow white shirts! Notice how many well·tnrned· out men turn out in Arrow? Well, there's good reason for it. All Arrow shirts are superbly tailored of \Sanforized\ fabrics. All Arrow shirts are Mitoga-cut for smooth, tapered :fit. And in Arrow shirts you'll :find the most famous collar styles ever m·eated-favorites· on ours and every campus in the countrf! · A:r.row Par 3. 9 5 Arrow Gordon Dover 4.50 NUSBAUM'S 44 7-45 I STATE STREET 1.-----FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLE~.....-......-.. ......... --.._, 11 1 lose my head every time / . . ')») I see a man 1 n an Arrow Shirt!\ ... .ARROW PAR widespread soft collar .ARROW GORDON DOVER popular oxford button-down SH •.• rS • TIES o SPORTS SIIIRTS e UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS

' . 4 FilDAY. JANUARY U, 1952' Gustafson Describes Social.ism in Sweden Cam_p·us Cui lings Mostly for Tyros Miami Protessor Notes The following lnstructi()ns are F ~~6t~~~\~or men with lower than •· TO$h-SOJJh Di, f ere.nces By Eliot Loshalt HOW TO USE THE DIAL TELE- The red-pasting \Middlebury PHONE IN SCHEN 0 .Arthur q.. Phillips, 3;!lsociate pro- 6. .A male freshman is looking . , . . E TADY (Also f f E 1' h t th U . . . . i . The town of Malmo, Sweden, should be familiar to track f~ns as the stamping grounds of Gundar Haegg, the great d1stance runner. Malmo has another claim to fame rio·ht he11e on the Union campus. It is the home of Stig G~s­ tafsson, HELP student from Sweden. Stig is here at Union· as the guest of Sigma Phi fraternity. · Campus\ reports the following con- ·applicable to Fonda) · essor o ng Is a e mversrty 'for a girl like h s mother; th1s is cerning a change in library pub• If you are not sur~ of the nutn- of Mla~i, ~Ia., recently, wz:ote a 'also true of the !lOphomore, If his lications as the \Wall Street Jour- ber, look in the directory,. .. ~est e~1tor~a~ for the Miamr Hur-. mother. happens to be .Jane Russell. nal\ replaced the \Daily Worker\ If the number is not in· the dl- uca~e, m whrch ~e made the fql-,, 7. A freshman believes· -the way on the library shelf. This was the rectory, Dial 113. lo-wt~g observations . about th:'' to get good grades is to study hard; official explanation (for the Remove .the receiver and LISTEN • sp.ec1es Freshman ~nd Sophomore. · the sophomore has· decided that a change) ... \The Daily Worker FOR THE DIAL TONE- a steady 1.. FreshJ;n(ln beheve th~t all of better wa,y_ is to sit n~t to some- wasn't ,being read, so the library humming sound-before Y()U dail. thetr prof7s.sors are smart. Sopho•., one who studi~s hard, Wants to Enter Law Stig is taking a general liberal arts course this year and hopes to .. go to law school in Sweden and· then enter th~ private practice of : law. He has been very favorably · impressed by American education :! although he has found it not too ·' · different from the Swedish system. There is more emphasis on Ian-. guage stpdy in Sweden than in America and consequently the Ian-· guage study in Sweden than in committee decided to discontinue: If you do not hear it within a tmhoe'rt' es breohfeve t1lat one or twt othof. • 8. A freshmen's ambition is to the subscription. The Wall Street hi · . r P · essors are smar ~ e . · · . Journal appears at the request of veasona. e ttme, hang up; wart a ones that give them A's ·get In,to- \W:ho's Who;\ a sopho~ore few seconds, and try again._ 2 F:.esh e . · 1 l . t . . t ·just ~ants to get called before the the economics department. But When you hear a burr-burr-burr · d •· t'm n are~n co ege 0 g~ · Kefauver committee, ,perhaps this report means more ·sound, the called telephone is ring- ac()nll e ucba 10n; sotph ~mofretsh· are In 9 Freshmen . suspect that pro- than that the economics depart- ing·· If you he b b b ege ecause etr a ers re- · . : t h d -w . · a-r a uzz- uzz- uzz. f.u e to th · f . t L V• · · fesso11s aren't human\ sophomores men as rescue the all Street sound, the ca;lled telephone is .busy. . ~- p payh· elr are't od_ as b eh~sd. know it. . ' Journal from oblivion. Can it be If you have tro1,1ble dialing a . . · re~ men aren ry , e m · that the undevgvaduate body has number, hang up for a few ·seconds •. tdhe ears·, sophomoves ave always 10. Fre11hmen kiss their dates frowned on the subversive and re- Th d' 1 \ t ., f h 1 ry, goodbye; sophomores 'kiss them jected the Reds? And' if so, what · ' en ta opera or or · e P• . 4', :A freshman wm take a hello, will Tass think?\ ... Tune in next 0 wooden nickel; a sophomore will , Concludes ,the professor: \Every- Friday. Swim,ming · ta~e ta wo 1 odt 'en nickel too, and five ··body loves a freshman. What makes We were very interested in what Stig had to say about Sweden's re-. lation to the world situation, Com- munism and the Soviet Union. The governing party in Sweden is the Social Democratic Party which Stig compared to our Democratic Party. The program of the Social Demo- crats is similar to tl,le program of the welfare state which we have \fo \fo \fo . mmu es a er put it in the .slot :life .so <disiHusioning. to a professor (Continued from Page 3) machine. is the th01,1ght that this yeru·'s The question, \What did you do Mulla·ne, ''looked very good.\ Bob 5>. Freshmen write home once a freshmen will be nex:t year's over T·hanksgiving vacation?\ Diamond, a graduate from last week; sophomores write whenever, so;phornores. Sic transit .glo;ria asked by the Inquiring Reporter in ·year's squad turned in an excep- they're broke. 'mundi.\ the \Clarkson Integrator\ was d b t d t 'th th tiOna! perfi:nmance when he cap- .• 1 ,_ •·-. • • • • • lill• • • .; • Ill - •·--·.• ... ;. -· .•.. -· .• -.. - •. , •. ·i· answere · Y one 8 u en WI · · e tured .the 50 meter breaststroke · · · · · following: · · · \My days were spent event in 32 seconds. Diamond also eating, drinking, and escorting my participated in several of the East's. II ,D .f s T I 'N c T I v E M· .:E. ·N • ·s w· ·E A· . ,.Ill I girl. It was a long stretch from l . · ft. the ·beginning of the term so I had re ay teams under Mullane's guid- 'I I in America. There are, however, some institu- tions such as cooperative stores, cheap but efficient state-run hos- pitals, and some socialized indus- tries which are foreign to the United States, The Communist party in Sweden is very weak and the Communist representation in the Swedish Parliament is small. The Swedish people do not fear war as much as most of the other European countries. Stig attri- butes this to the fact that Sweden has not had direct expreience of the horrors of war in the twentieth century. The Swedes are deter- mined to maintain their history of peace. In general, Stig's impressions of America and Americans are very favorable. This includes our girls but Stig's principal feminine inter- est is Ingrid, a Swedish lass who is going to visit Stig in America in a few weeks. ---01--- Graves Speaks to Staff Association The Women's Staff Assn. held its regular monthly meeting in Old Chapel Tuesday. Mrs. Hilda E. Hill, president, presided. Dr. Clare Graves of the department of psy· chology spoke to the group on the general subject of juvenile delin- quency, declaring tlm.t it was a communicable disease that could be cured only in isolation under the hands of experts. Mrs. L. L. Hayes of the ht:sar's office was appointed secretnn t'J fill the vacancy caused by Miss Margaret Waldron who has re- signed as college housekeeper. _The next meeting of the grc.ulJ Will be held on February 5 and President Carter Davidson will ad- dress the group on the history of the college. ---o~-- Canothers Speaks (Continued from Page 1) sivc effort to \intensify loyalties to respective beliefs and religious leaders.\ He emphasized this as an instance where people insuf- ficiently supplied with facts or un- able to see their implications could do the cause of liberty irreparable harm. \We are reaching a crisis in the United States\ concluded Carro- thers \and the fate of our civil lib- erties in the futme will, in no small way, influence the destiny of this country.\ T.HE ACME BARBERSHOP 509 UNION ST. \Where the Service is a Pleasure\ (Nearest to the Campus) i• • • • • • • • • • • • • rl a.nce. Ray was picked as one of 1 to malie up for Iost time,\ . . . the {)Caches of the East's team for I c •·t I M I s· h' I' But my God man!!! the extensive meet, Which was I I apt a . . enr s . '. o.p· .. ·nc. I \fo \fo 'fo easily captured by the West. , I Photo by Boris Stig Gustafsson Undefeated Fives Lead Intra Loops · Staying up here for the mid-year, I ,I Here's a hint for prospective· break will be Bird, Cooper, Borse, 1 1 ._ .J67 Jay Street Sc:hene•tady, N. Y. I teachers culled from the \Benning- Duffy, Farren 1 Fink, Geismar, Hart- . · \\ ton Weelily\ ... \If you're planning mann, Kloth, Metzger, Muhlert, 1 . · _ . I to be a teacher it's a good idea to Reiners, Sherwood, and Stark. \•••·•••••••••·••••·•-•••••••••.JI keep close tab on the birth rate. The last round of intramural basketball competition, prior to the Then go along with the crowd',\ ... Now wait a second!! ! tnid-year vacation, was .played this \fo \fo :;. week. The fir,al series of regular-· ly scheduled games will be played , The \Fredonia Leader\ reports· in the first few weeks of .school, student opinion upon the formation next semester. of a chess club at the college . , . ln games played on Tuesday, \A few complaints reached the Beta Eta downed Kappa Sigma proper authorities a few weeks ago 26-20, the Betas dumped the ASCE. and action has been taken.\ squad 45-24, and, in the closest \fo :to :to game of the night, Phi Sigma, pelta just edged out Delta Upsilon Department of Unlimited Faith James Restauront Engraving in This Issue Made By • •Dfre GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 426 ·state Street 147 JAY stREET 21-20. This marked the first de-' The following article is reprinted feat for the DUs in intramural play in its entirety from the \Cham- this season. The boys from DU plainer.\ ... \Champlain was los- went through the football schedule ing, and few cheers came from the ·~:;;;;,:;;;;;;~~;;;;~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;!~ without a loss and are currently stands to cheer them on. At the 1 -undefeated in the volleyball loop. end of the half Champlain rallied KA's Still Undefeated arid nearly evened the score . . . Wednesday night, in Alumni The teams trooped back into the Gym, Psi U gained a 2-0 forfeit vic- gym and began to warm up. Bas- tory over the ROTC unit. In the ketballs were bouncing all over the other two games that evening, gym, and everybody was talking. Kappa Nu dumped the Betas 38 _ 24 Suddenly the noise of the crowd and Phi Delt tripped up the boys stopped-the players stopped; only the band was heard amongst the of Phi Gam 44-25. At this point in scraping of feet as chairs were play, the Delta Phi team is leading pushed back. The band was pla.v- the National loop with three vic- \ tories against no losses. Phi Delt ing our Alma Mater · · · Here was has posted a similar record to lead the turning of the tide; the .people began to cheer, until there was a the .American league and Kappa continuous roar. The team was Alpha, still undefeated, is heading the Eastern League. The lead will inspired with new pep-and they be tnost heavily contested in the. showed it on the floor by going ahead-way ahead-of Potsdam's latter loop, with KA still having to five. We won, but the Alma Mater face DU. The Engineers, Phi Sie made it possible! Del\, and DU all have 3-1 records. In the only volleyball contest last --~---~------­ Tuesday night, Phi Sigma Delta defeated Delta Chi in two games- 15-8 and 15-13. This leaves Phi Sig and DU tied for the lead of the Nor.thern league. Phi Delt and Alpha Delt are undefeated in the Western League and Delta Phi, alor.c, has a 2·0 record in the Southern Loop. The volleyball games scheduled to be played tomorrow afternoon in the gym have been postponed in- definitely. Alurr.ni Gym will be closed to the students all day, be- causp the tables are being set up for Hnal examinations. GUERRA•s PHARMACY • Fountain Prescriptions Sundries • 6()0 Union St., Cor. Barreit St. • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery c~o. a storeful AT M. B. Graubarts & Sons We Repair ••• of Fine Gifts to send home Your WATCHES Your JEWELRY. Your SILVER Utmost care is taken by skilled workers to give you every reason to be pleased. -Watches and clocks cleaned and repaired -New watch cases and bands -New watch crystals inserted -Pearls and beads restrung -Jewelry and silver replated and repaired '\SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENERATIONS\ He haJ no wish but- to be glaJ _Nor want but- when. he thirsteJ The Jolly Beooar Each frosty bottle of Coke is the answer to thirst ... each frosty bottle is a bar-gain, too. Robert Burns would like that! : Serving Union•s Men I 1 For Years : : See your agent on Campus : SA YE 15% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% : UNITED • NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR 1 CLEANERS 1 1 For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 1 · Raw,. Steamed Clams 1 TAILORS ••Meet and Eaf at EDDIE'S,. 1 Phone 4-5676 :547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. I 114 State St. near Ferry I MEAL TICKETS-$5.15 for $5.00 '----------- --- -· J!r,:=======================;:;;;=;;;;:;:;===·:.dl BOmED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA-CO:r..A BOTTLING COMPANY UCob\/s a registered lratla-.marlt, @ 1952 1 THil COCA-COLA COMPANY Vol •. 79 Da: Bit A uni feature held ne} The \S the StudE by Studel to fill the couples ' located i decorated pendents selected 1 tion for trophy. ' orchestra night, wi and dowt pected tl are plartr Some .t tertainmE and Eng form an supply s• music. :E served, tl affair bei The COII dollar de to help penses. Jay C1 ;POinted o 'ly an inf are invit• Although brawlers' lar sport able, he: CarJ Sa turd: Carnival Park,. co co rating (also fre< campus J Chapel a urday aJ enders tc festivitiei ice skati and sno• fered. E around : Lake. E campus time for pre-dinnE TheW Friday ' varsity gym. Fo all frate1 houses f• The Ind 'also pial Hall. It function ...fraternit Classe: urday m be welco fessors r. for \Sn• they lil!;E While are at < ternoon, indepenc preparin \Snowbr Patt~ CollE The su to Unio11 Porter former announc Accor< Judge P is to be dowmen Judge in the l of Jam trustee last vis 1948 wl speaker tb.e t.Jni House < Accor. Press, totaled 1 $20,000 : $10;00(}

