Pajama Parade ·'fonight 7:30 Daley Field Vol. so, No. 1 3J ubilt t Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1'952 • tt:t.· 12. 414.1 Football Home Game Sat., 2:00 P.M. PRICE 10 CENTS Season Tomorrow ~Dutchmen Tackle Larries Union Opens· 67th Football R .. eVtSlO·nS In Faculty ·Announce.d Additions to the Union College ·faculty for thi~ aca- de.mic yeat will serve to main- tain the approximate ratio ·of one instructor for every ten students. In general, these new faculty members will re- place men who have left t}le campus or are on leave. The faculty members on leave in.clude: Professor Harold W. Blod- gett, chairman of the English de- partment, who is at the. l)niv.ersity of Leiden teaching under a Ful- bright scholarship, Professor Au- gustus H. Fox of the Mathematics departnient, studying nuclear re- actors at .the Oak Ridge (Tenn.) atomic plant; Professor Owen. G. Owens, who is with the Electrical Engineering department of Stan- ford University; Professor Arthur K. Davis of the Sociology Depart- ment; and Associate Professor Charles D. Weiland of the Lan- guage Department. Many Departures Those who have left Union per- manently are: Professor ·walter W. Lewis, who has reached the retire- ment age; Assistant Professor Athanasios Papoulis, now with the Engineering Department of Brook- lyn Polytechnic Institute; Major John M. Benton of the Air Science D .epa r t men t; Messrs. Norman. Brown and WaHer Pilkington of the Library staff; Lacrosse Coach Francis E. O'Brien, now at Coates- ville· (Pa.) high school, .Mr. Donald Boyer and Professor Walter Moz- ley of the Biology department; As- sistant Professor ·James Allison of the English department, Mr. ,Aiex Raymond of the Language depart- ment, and Delbert A. Bowman, a Geology instructor. Ret11rning faculty members in- clude: Professors Carl Niemeyer and Raymond M. Herrick of the English department,. Professor Gor- don R. Silber, who is chairman of tb.e French department; Assistan.t Professor James W. Morley, His- tory; Associate Professor William T. Winne, Biology; Donald Fisher, Assistant Professor of Geology; and Associate Professor Joseph Rotundo of the Government and Economics departments. Newcomers to the professorial staff· are: Dr. Terrance Hansen, Assistant Professor of Spanish; Mr. Sven Peterson, an instructor in Pb.ilosophy; Dr. Raymond Rappa~ port of the Biology department; Mr. Eugene Morris. instructor in Psychology; Major John Forehand, AFROTC; Mr. Robert McNUlty in the English department and Messrs. Thomas Strader and Richard Sampson, members of the Library staff. Dr. Frank Scholfield, Soci~ ology, is also a rtew face, along with Mr. Roger Ladd, an instructor in the Engineering department. Pro- fessor Albert A. Nims will be with the department of Engineering.· 0>--- 1952 Union Grid Squad In Alexander Field Fray Fh·st Row: Shade, Snyder, O'Meally, Guerra, Harp, Davtes, Nemeth, Hochuli, Giambruno, Judge; Second Row: Harris, Dickson, Klingberg, Muller, Gx·eg·ory, Strickland, Armstrong, Bollinger, Bloom- field, Rudolph, Havill; Third Row: Yaniles, McMa bon, Gerding, Qatje, Schoen, Grifmell, Caye, Hunt- ington, \Vehler, Martucci, Crotty; Fourth Row: 'Bayatzies, Wodarzak, Petersdort, Manzi, Tretheway, Gambino, Struwe, Snover, Rossomondo; Standing; LaWI·ence (line coach), Cafarelli (asst. mgr.), Nistad (backfield coach), Zervas (mgr.), Fougere (end coach), Hammerstrom (head coach). By Irwin Barg, Sports Editor The 1952 football season will get u.ndenvay tomorrow · when Union faces the visiting St. Lawrence University eleven, on Alexander Field. At the opening kickoff, 2:00 p.m., ·Coach Sam Hammerstrom's team will find itself facing one of the tougher opponents on its schedule. Pajama Clad Frosh Invade Schenectady Hammerstrom Hopeful Mindful of the Larries' perform• ances during the past few seasons, the Union coach expresses a fair amount of optimism when he stated \St. Lawrence always has had man- power, speed and a tough team, but with our share of the breaks we should beat them.\ Tomorro,v's game will be the The freshmen of Union College twentieth meeting of the two will form tonight at 7:30 on Daley schools, since 1908. In those years, field for the annual rally and the Dutchmen have managed to parade before the opening home win nine contests while dropping football game. The pajama-clad six and tying four. However, Ham- fresh will march through the merstrom would like to make up streets of Schenectady in what has for the 48-6 drubbing handed to a become a classic to Schenectadians, visiting Union team last year. the annual pajama parade. Though there will be several new The itinerary the freshmen will faces in the starting lineup for the follow differs from previous years. Garnet this season, Hammerstrom From Daley field the fresh will feels that his team is better pre- leave the college from the Payne pared for the visitors. The Union Gate and then will proceed down eleven started slowly last season . Nett Terrace until they hit State and showed no attack in their Street. They will then continue opening game. Judgin:g by the pre- down State Street until the inter- season practice sessions the team section of Erie Boulevard and from looks sharper this year and the , there they will march up Erie backs are handling and running Boulevard to Union Street and then the ball better than they did last on to the campus and ·back to year at this time. Daley field where a bonfire and 48 Man Squad rally will be held. On Wednesday, the Garnet team B 0 l G 0 ft M t b k p d t • Rally Fo'llows Parade ended three weeks of pre-season . ai ey .. I . oun e an s ro . uc lOU Bob Murray, chairman of the drills with a squad of 48 men. Of . ' , · .· · · ' ' Freshman Or1'entat1'on Committee, the 45 ,players who reported for I L t Ch C t • B • has promised the appearance of the first practice on September 3, . s ' arges . . osen,· as tng egtns most of the football team and 16 were returning lettermen and 22 Coach Sam Hammerstrom at the were freshmen. Since that time The donation of $500,000 given Compl'etely reorganized, the Mountebanks have returned rally following the parade and bon- Joe Canale, Don· Reed and Jim fire. Some members of the team Carrigg have been added. to the recently to Union by Frank Bailey t th U · C 11 d t d t t d' t will. be usec1. primarily to support 0 e n1on , G · egoe campus rea Y 0 pro uce an ou s an Ing , will speak and Sam Hammers rom roster ' the Electrical Engineering and dramatic effort, \Sec~p.d Thre&,ho1d\ by Philip Barry. will say a few words. Cheerleaders· Hammerstrom can not be sure ol Econ.omics departments. C tin S .... _ da. from the school will be at the rally his starting lineup until game time, This latest donation by Mr. as g tar., Mon Y to lead the fresh and the lookers- but the probable starting lineup Bailey raises to approximately one WRUC AddS In discussing the selected play, a on in a few of the Union <'heers. has Elwin Harp, a senior: at left and one half mililon dollars the highly interesting and enjoyable The frosh council has met, and end. George Wehler, a freshman, totals of his bequests to Union study of the revaluation of family rumors seem to be flying around i.s likely to be at left tackle and College. Among previous gifts of N T I t · life, Mountebank President John E. the school that the rally and Bill Bloomfield, a junior playing his Mr. Bailey and his wife Marie · ew e e ype Shade announced ·that five promi- bonfire and some time thereafter, first season of football, will be in Louise ar Bailey Hall in 1929 , and . nent roles, two of which require the frosh will do some hazing of the guard position. Dick Havill, a the endowment of the Frank Bailey feminine players, are open for the their own. sophomore, has been moved from WRUC, the first college radio casting which will take place Men- ---o~--- C chair of Greek in 1945, the Frank t t\ · th u \t d St t h ( op.tinued on Page 3) s a wn In e n1 e a es, as day and T.uesday, September 29 h CI f 318 o --- and Marie Louis Bailey chair of inaugurated a new teletype service and 30, at 7:30p.m. in Hanna Ha.ll. Fros. ass 0 ·- p hysics in 1950 and the Marie b a of wh1\ch la· test news de 2 N M Add d y me ns - s. tudy copies of the play can b.e ew en e Louise Bailey ·Chair of Mathematics 'velopments are received. Cohtinu- obtained at the main desk of the Second Largest . ' . in 1951. The latest gift is the larg- ous reports arrive direct from T C II ROTC est received by Union since 1920 \New York ~lmes\ newsroom fr?m lib~:~~~ical chiefs have been as- The Freshman class, 318 strong, 0 . 0 ege and the largest ever given by Mr. 5:45 p.m. until 2 a.m. ~he evemng ~:sl\gn· ed already and production is second largest in the history of Bailey. newscasts from the Umon College ' \ ni C 11 R t d . th Two new men have been added Frank Bailey graduated from d\ t t\ e l'terally \hot off crews are needed. Interested stu- U on o ege. epresen e m e to the saff of the Union College Union in 1885, with the aid of a rtha 10 .s a .. wn ar 1 dents should attend the Mounte- class are 13 states and 3 foreign AFROTC unit. They are Major e Wire. b k t\ th\ w d d t countries. New York State still J h M F h d d t sqholarship given him by the school. . . . . . an mee mg IS e nes ay a · o n . ore an an Mas er Ser- In later life he credited much ·of his This 1mp~ess1ve lookm,g. machme, 8:00 p.m. in the theatre. remains dominl)nt with 75 percent geant Lauring c. Andrews. success to his Union education and of the caliber that maJOr news- Shade is enthusiastic about the of ·the class. Major Forehand comes to Unien his contributions have been his rooms and topflight radio st:~.tions plentiful opportunities offered the The clas received a record volume from a tour of duty in Iceland, way of repaying the school. Mr. use thro~gllOut the countr¥, lS fed Mountebanks. to djspl!l.Y their pro- of $38,000 in scholarships of which where he was associated with the Bailey has been treasurer for fifty by Amer;JCan .Telephone and Tele- ductions. This year many dramatic 41 were New York State Scholar· Military Air Transport Service. years and has long been a member gl;'aph Wlres dlrect from New York offerings will be broadcast over ships. The previous record was Dt~ring the Second World War he of the board of trustees, in both Crty. The teletype, valued a~ well_ WRUC, • the Union College radio $30,000 set by the Clas of 1955 · served in the Transport Command offices he has been of notable serv- over one t~wusan~ dollars, IS ~he station. A call, therefore, was is- Engineering, Most Popular in the United States. Major Fore~ ice to Union. His tenure as treas- most. prac~JCal quiCk news service sued to inexperienced men, as 'the The college received 876 applica- hand is married and is the father · urer has seen Union rise to one· now Ill e:&Istance. Mountebank organization asserted· tions and accepted 480. The pre- of two children: His tour of duty of the financially strongest j'lmall Radio Station Expands its willingness to instruct new sent freshman class represents 66 at Union will be four years; colleges in America with an eh- In addition to the teletype rna- members in the fundamentals of percent of the accepted high school Sergeant Andrews previously was d·owment of over eleven million chine WRUC offer's many other dramatic art. seniors. This is a comparatively stationed at Mitchell Field on Long dollars. radio and recording services to the New Officers Elected good showing as compared to Am- Island. He, also is marired and Mr. Bailey is now in retirement campus. A completely new pro- During the Spring semester of herst and Princeton who received has four children. During World and divides his time between Union cess type tape recorder, purchased 1951, plans were formulated for the 58 and 63 percent respectively. War II Sergeant Andrews saw serv- and his Locust Valley estate. from the Student .A.ctivities funds, reorganization of the student Engineering seems to be the most ice with the Ninth Air Force in o wil be offered to students for tape thespians, with a new constitution popular course of study in the France. and disc recording at cost. Scores being drawn up and approved by class with 138 men. Liberal Arts iWth the admission to Union of all Garnet athletic events in ad- the Student Council, and officers ran a close second with 103 fol- College of the Class of 1956, the dition to coverage of the major being elected. Those men who will lowed by Pre-Med. Other curri- ROTC unit has increased greatly Schedule A1t ·Exhibitions Fo1· Old Chapel Gallery , contests is a regular featme <J.t head the Mountebanks .this year, culums represented are: Physics, in size. Aproximately 260 Fresh- Ar? in previous years, a series of WRUC. This year the station, in along with Shade, are vice-presi- · Chemistry and Industrial Ad minis- men are presently enrolled in the All U exhl .b 1 ·t 1 ·ons· has been scheduled for. cooperation with the Mountebanks, dent Stephen L. Fink, treasurer tration. Bolstering the spirit of Officer Training Program. As a . nion College fraternities will t\ · U · th Cl f 195 h 19 the Old Chapel Art G'allery. The is producing special drama IC, Donald G. Simmons, and Richard · mon, e ass o 6 as sons result there are now 542 men in open their portals to non-fraternity t bl\ shows. Hit tunes from RCA and s.. Klotz who replaces William c. of Aiumni and 24 with other the Corps of Cadets. Fraternities Open For Grid Weekend ni.en for the first football party exhibits will be open to he pu 1c , weekend of the 1952 season tomor- ·rrom 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekdays Columbia are broadcast in addition Brandow, no longer a. stud~nt, as: Alumni connections. o·--- row night. and from 1 to 6 p.m. on Saturdays to the classical and semiclassical secretary. o•--- Staff Openings . and Sundays. prqgre,ms. Design Course Offered W1.·th the opening of a new school Fre;lhmen, especially, are urged -~-ol--- to join the celebrating upper-class- Featttre of the first semester will DrUlU Major Wanted A new opportunity to express term every activity on campus is meh by visiting as many of the be the exhibit of 23 original paint- Gal·net Op· ening· themselves will be offered to Union attempting to recruit new ·members. houses as the men of ~ 56 desire. ings of the 19th century American The College Band, under the students and faculty this year with We of the Concordiensis are no dif- school of painters known as the There is an opening on the edl- direction of Mas.te1· Sergeant the inauguration of a non-credit ferent. The}'e are positions open The Qpen house parties are a \Hudson River School\. It includes torial staff of the Garnet yeaJ:b(!olt Robert J, Miller of the AFROTC course in Free-hand Drawing and for reporters in all departments. In part of the I.F.C. ptogram to help scenes of Schenectady, Saratoga' :for anyone desirous of becoming unit, wants ($p.dida.tes for the Painting. addition the Concordiensis needs independents and· frosh acquaint ·Springs and the Mohawk Valley. business m.anagex· of tbat publica- post of drum major. The Band; The college has been fortunate in new blood in the ~siness depart- themselves witl;l the many fraterni- Co-featured during the second tion. Any tmdergraduate may ap- with its largest membership in securing as instructor Mr, Earl B. ment and the CircMlation depart- ties at the College before rushing semester will be an exhibit .of or- . ply for the position by stopping at recent yeJ:n·s, has never had a Pardon of the staff of Sk1dmore ment. Anyone interested in news~ commences in .the second semester .. iginai .prints by modern artists the Garnet offlce. any afternoon drttm major, according to M/Sgt. College. Mr. Pardon plans to meet paper work of any kind is cordially Sigma' Chi fraternity has the only' from all over the world and a next week or by calling ·Edwin M:illex\ Applicants may contact all those interested in enrolling at invited to attend the staff meeting new location for young brew-con- selection of ·paintings pr.esently Hiclts at the Sigma. Chi house. The him at tlhe AFROTO office in at preliminary meeting at 7:30 p,m. each Monday afternoon at one .sumel's, having its present address featured by prominent New York Busiii.ees Manager receives a com-· the gym. We(!nesday evening, Oct. 1 in Old o'clock in the Concordiensis office at :1173 Wendell Avenue, ga:lleries, · mission on sales. Chapel. in Washburn Hall. ,•,

2 arntttnr Member Associated Col- legiate Pres:; and distri· butor or the Collegiate lJigt::::~t. ::Sational Ad\'t:J · Using Her>resentati \'e: :'\a- tional . .:\dvt·l't\:jlllg Sl'I\Vtn;: Inr., College PuhliHllPr·s Hepre~t>ntatl\'t:l, 1:!•' :\1a•l1· son Ave., ;-.;, Y. C. l'ul>- lh-•ht:>d C'\'ery l·~rida '\' of tlu• ::s··houl ~ear. Editorial Offlee,\Va•hburn !!all, l'nion College. Pub· lication Offi<'e, The Ga- ~dtc ['1 t.'.:-ltl, ::3-1 ~ta.tt: St. Entered In -the Schone<'· tndJ l'u~t tlt'fll c at-> ~th·· ond Cla:::.:-; :\tall ~latter, ~ttho..tTiptinn llh' n l'Opy: $3 yt'ar lldtvt:\tcd any· \\hPn~ in tllt: {'uitl•d State:; s E:'i 10 It· n.o .\ ltll JOII:'\ J. l'.\S:-;Ii>Y, JH ·:.:1 .. 1-:datoi-iH-l ~hh•f ... -~port~ J•:t11tor .\~~ul'i:t tt' Editor .\s~odate Editot ll.l\\\1:'\ S. llAilli '&3 .......... . .\LF'HE!> L. liOLPBEI:t:t-:n ·:-1. I!EilllEl:T L :-;I'll:.\ ·:o~ ..... . ALFHEP H. Kl:'\<10:'\ '53 ...... . ALA:'\ S. l<'OH~1A;o.; ':\3 . . . . . . IWBEHT L. ::511.\'EH:.\lA); '~3 .............. . JOSEPH ll. ~lAHTI:'\ 'j3 ......... . .Jl·:oou noA.Itll . . . . F'eature- Editor .l'hotography Edttol .. Bu.stne::;s :uanaget l'\n·culatlUU ~1atmgt~r l-lAH.TIN HAl'SEH '55 . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . .• \:-;:-i~taut :::ports Etlitor IUCIIAHD ti. 11!·;1:\L\:-;); ':,3...... As,lstttut Feature Eliitu1 t-;LIUT LOSIL\l{ ·~3 ............................ \ssi>tant Feature l•;tlitor PA:-.:IEL SIE:'EL ·:,:1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E\<<'hangp r;tlltnr J. Lll\\' ELL llA \'IS '53.. . . . . . . . . . .... \s\1:;tnn t L'ireulatoun :\lana~e1· Itt: I'() liT I-: ItS l't;:lt'r .:\Ulci, ~la·t\\JIL Bu11~. Ja.Inc::; Llarrlt.'tt, ln\ilt l~ertzog, I~olJl'rt Gonion. He1b~rt l~ll~t1111. Cary l{~ltz. I!ic h:lld l.P\\i~. Jn~pph :\1nBtor~Nlo, Lowell :\1ediler, Frederll' !\ion i~. I lonnld !\lohr, I )ona.ld ~imnton~. \\'alter To\\er. Bl:MOiES:S STAFI' Hobert Bed<, Lawrence GreenLer·g, :\Iartin :\!eyer. t'IR(TLA1'10N STAJ;<'I•' Richard Borst, Davit! Gregory, Uerar<lus Jameson, Dunear1, Ma<>Arthur. Welcome and Advice To the members of the class of 1956 we offer both a welcome and a word of advice. We hope the advice will be accepted as graciously as the welcome is tendered. As you have probably learned in your orientation ses- sions, this year was to be a landmark at Union College, one • in which there was to be no soph-frosh hazing. At least this was the intention of the Student Council when it abolished the Sophomore Discipline Committee last spring. This publication does not want to see that body return to activity, nor do we desire to see the return of hazing in any form. We feel that the great majority of you frosh have the same sentiments as we do. If you want to prevent these harassments you'll have to display more school spirit. Yom· Freshmen Council was formed to build and g-uide that spirit. They will fail only if you don't give that body your support. There are some old traditions here that none of the upper-classmen like to see ignored. None of you are too pleased with those beanies and pins, but wear them. None of you especially see why you shouldn't use the lawns for \short-cuts but don't. One doesn't ask the why of tradi- tions, and their continuance can certainly be assured without hazing. You freshmen will be an autonomous group for one semester. You can learn much more at an orientation com- mittee \bull session'' than you can at a session of painting the IDOL. The Orientation program this year is aimed at construt!tively developing· among you a respect for Union College and its past. There are some upperclassmen, mainly sophomores, who would defeat the best laid plans of the orientation program by retmning the hazing plan. A good turnout at the foot- ball game tomorrow, and a vociferous cheering section should squelch any plans they might have. Let's demonstrate that class spirit can grow in a voluntary manner. -J. J. G. Appalling Library Losses Monetary figUl'es are often surprising, but in the light of information given to the Concordiensis by Librarian Hel- mer E. Webb, they are appalling. 1\ir. Webb estimates that, books to the value of $5,000. were not returned to the Library during the last academic year. This means that about one half of the library expenditures for books went down the drain last year. According to Mr. Webb, wlw met with members of the Library Board yesterday, about 200 books alone were taken from the Biography and Novel sections. The Librarian also bemoaned the fact that these books were among the most popular titles on the library shelves. If these books are not retumed, they will have to be replaced. Since the Library budget is fixed, being drawn from endowment funds, the number of new titles that can be purchased will be greatly reduced in order to replace the missing ones. When one realizes what an integral part the Library plays in the intellectual atmosphere of the college he knows that a certain negligent or unscrupulous few are depriving us of the type of Library facilities we deserve. Petty pilfer- ing and forgetfulness mean that the rate at which the Li- bi·ary purchases literature has been cut in half. This is not only an appeal to the student body to cease these nefarious and unforgiveable activities, it is also an earnest request to those persons to 1·eturn the books they have. They will not receive any leniency if they do return these books, and in most cases the maximum fine will be invoked. These people do not deserve leniency, for, whether will- fully or not, they are in effect, stealing. The books in the Library were not procured with student money, rather they were bought through an endowment fund supplied by other people. In this sense two neutral and innocent parties are being victimized-those who bought the books and the student com~unity itself, which deserves the best in Library facilities. In begging the return of the missing literature, we ask the help of fraternity presidents, dormitory proctors and the culprits themselves. We are not asking these people who have these books to come to the Library and be ,forgiven, rather, let justice be done. J. J. C. - FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1952 Busy Hands An aiN't Conoordiensis photographer caug·bt this poignant scene> of two freslrmen painting tht• IDOL Tuesday en•ning. Although the Sopllomore Discipline Committee was abolished last Sp1·ing by the Student Council, some bophs have talu·n matters in th~ir own hands. (For Concordit'nsis remarlts on 'ltazing read editorial, \Welcome • • . \ below.) One Part Wisdom By Eliot Loshalt Some wit one!' announced to the We must r<:'alize that thr>re are world why college wa;; a place of other Ya!ue ~ystems tl:an our own. We ought to corr.e to appreciate knowledge. It was, he said, because other wavs .of life and othf'l' tastt>s. It is somewhat .of a dubious point as to what the real nature of sum- mer stock should .hf'. T-hf're arr> two ~ehools of t' >uU~ht Ill thr:t it is run for audi· tlrl('t' ,branpfit. and · ·<21 Hat it is pl'i· n1nr:lr a testing \10 und and ~ <' h o-o I i n g f o r tl o·H~ prrsons in- .fGre;.;t,,d in mak- ing theat-re a .c•R.re(1r. \Vha t would h<' trw bl'nt\fi-t:; to the nudienrP. First-, .stoPI\ would b rir.g theatre to a commumty th_a: does not have th0 benefit of Its p ~rscnC<' all .year Jon'-'. .Jn this wa~· thr rurwl community and 1ts dem· zens would be able to attentl a~cl b<.>rome familiar with ·an entertain· ment form that is fairly inacces· sable outside the N e1v Y0rk area ·rat le1ts\ in its professional form l. T'h1s plan has backHnd. F0r today, 1vith .package shows carrying stars 1vho pull down fairly :Jarge ·salaries pel' week, the stoclt manager fir;ds that his ticket prices must be high f'nough to not only rnal'e expenses, but show some sort of profit; for after all, he's in it as· a business 1nan. People who should by all rights benefit as members cif the audience find often that the )li'ices are pro- hibiti\·e. The rest of the summr>r audier. ce is made u Jl of primarily tourists. There is tllen, of course, the avid theatre-?oer who will go to see most anything- at any time in any place. He just likes it. What about the people who work in the summer theatr«;Js? The resi• .dent company is fast becoming ex- tinct in stock because of the high- ly proftJ:.able system of packaging ~hows that carry stars. The audi\ .~n~Ps st>em to be much more inter- ested in sccir g a Hollywood stat· in action than a good p1•oducfion or. a good play. So that those who work in stocl{ in the hope of acting act little. T .. ehnical'y, the prductions are hardly ever of Broadway calibre; mainly because there is oniv one wc>ek in which to pro-duce the. setting and one ~ight to erect ;t. Drr ss rehearsals en the set be- fore opening night are limited to one and maybe two. Monday night a~·dienccs get less for their money than, say, Friday night houses. Stock procedure is a hasty one, ar d those interested iil learning other than hastry ·methods are de- f'eived. Granted that it is good training for those with a theatJ:ical bacl,ground a-nd training that will stand them in stead; for those pt•ople will be able to take stock for what it is, 11ot for the absolute in proceedure, as do so many un- initiated apprentices. · The ultimate in stock would be a theatre run as an art theatre, producing plays of varying type and intensity; run for the audi- ences who could be admitted for reasonable prices, and for .the mem- bers of the working group who could get a chance to grow in stature and experience in. the prac- tical theatre. As a commercial enterprise, it would have to pay for itself. The college theatre is a good example of this, proving that it can and ·has be<\n done. Why then, not in stock? the freshmen bring a Iitle in,, the If we do not agree with or even seniors take nothing away, and thP undcr·stand existentialism, commun- knowledge accumulates. Most ism, Catholicism, or any other poi!'t humor has some basis in rPality, of view, l~t us at lPast be aware of and I suspect that this epigram re- theii· existenC'e and realize that fleets the attitude of many peopl~ people substantially like ourselves toward higher education. Many respect and believe in them. Let college men themselves will cite us continually t<'st our own values military deferment, \~oofing off\ and never believe that we have for four years, or professional train· finallv arrived at the last word. ing for a· better job as justification This attitude toward oth<'r people or reasons for a coll£>ge education. and their differences from our- It seems to me to be fitting and sPIVPs ~eems to me to be the proper at the start of a collC'ge year pssence of the truly liberal spirit. to stop and thinl< about ju~t why It is th<• scientific method appliPd we are going to colleg<> and what. to everyday life. More than any if anything, we expect to gain from other single factor, it distinguishes going to college. & thP Pducated person from the non- Engravings In This Issue Are By If the engineer takes nothing educated. It is the basis for the from college but a knowledge of fret'doms of thought and expression machines, the lawyer nothing but which we in America cherish as the the ability to win case~. or the cornerstone of our liberty. We · doctor r.othing but healing powers, ought to, I think. give a sPrious r<'- America will have fine cnginpet·s. <'Xamination of ourselves and our lawyers, and doctors but not nPces- gover·nmrnt to Sf'e how far we t:ave sarily fine men. To be succ .. ssful come from the basic cor.cept of as a man and as an engineer. liberalism. The strength of Am- lawyer, or doctor as well, the stu- erica has always been her eager dent should, it spems to me, make acceptance nf fresh, n\w id0as if an active effort to understar d and those n\w idens will do a bettl'l' appreciate other peopl<.>'s probl<.>ms job. In 1932. Presid<\nt RoosPvelt and points of view. The Liberal pointPd out the dangPr of the fear Arts man ought to try to S<'<' the psychology. Today, we must fear beauty and hamony of machinPs •the fear of idf'as. It is for us the and mathematics. The technical colle£\e s:tudents to tal'\ thP lead in student should try poetry or a casting off the fPar of anything- novel. But more important, college new, which, if unC'hPcked will do should generally increase one's ir.- far rrore than. armed forCE' to tellectual awareness and sensitivity. destroy us. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. .......... '\' VICTORIA Restaurant Specializilng in IT ALlAN FOODS 147 JAY STREET RITA HAYWORTH plus Rainbow 'Round My Shoulde1• For Your Information Jay Street (Cor. Union) FRIDAY, SEPT 26--Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Reception for new faculty members by Presi- dent and Mrs. Carter Davidson, Hale House, 8:30p.m. SATURDAY, SEPT. 27 - Varsity Football, Union vs. St. Lawrence, Alexander Field, kickoff at 2 p.m.; Beta Eta Upsilon party, Mess Hall; 8-12 midnight. SUNDAY, SEPT. 28-Sunday Ser- vice. Preacher, Dr. Nor·man B. Johnson of the Character Re>search Project in Union College, MC, 11:05 a.m. \The World's Best Seller.\ This service notes the release of a new revised edition of THE BIBLE. Mr. Webb has arranged an exhibit in the College Library in celcbra- ti on of the Five Hundredth Anni- versary of the printing of the Gut- tenberg Bible. All are cordially in- vited. The College will be host to the Schenectady Business and Pro- r----------------. fessional Women's Club at the serv- L Q BAlfGUR I}Q ice. I • · · il · 1 MONDAY, SEPT. 29-Daily Assem- bly, Program by the Student Coun- cil, MC, noon; Premedical stud<'nts 'ineet with Dr, Clark in BL-205 at 7:30p.m. TUESDAY, SEPT. 30- Daily As- sembly, speaker, Prof. H. Gilbert Harlow, \Civil Engineering at Union Through the Years,\ MC, noon; .Americ.an Society of Electri- Fraternity .Jewelers BADGES - RINGS- FAVORS JEWEL:RY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • l'ROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS- TEOPIDES Write or call cal Engineers <Union Collpge Stu- CARL SORENSEN dent Chapter), EE-22, 7:30 p.m.; American Rocket Society, CE-106, 30 Murray Av<.>., Waterford, N.Y. 8 p.m. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-2523 WEDNESDAY, OCT. l- MePting '---------------1 to welcome all FRESHMEN inter- r---------~\-.._-r cstcd in r<' ligious activities in Union College, Student Lounge, Hale House, 8 p.m. THURSDAY, OCT. 2-Daily Assem- bly <Work Camp Series>, MC, noon. We Need Your Head To Run Our B11siness! JANE RUSSELL plus Two Dollar Bettor THE DEVIL MAKES THREE GENE KELLEY plus I Dream of Jeanie For Car Troubles See a Union Man Model Barber Shqp Herman Farone, Prop. Letters to the Editor • Editor's Note-The following let- ter was sent to Alfred Scott who, with Paul Carbone, was editor of the 1952 Garnet yearboolt. Con- cordiensis prints the letter because it feels that the late arrival of the yearbook is a matter whicb caused much conce1n and some confusion -on campus. 'I'he Campus Publish- ing Company printed the Garnet. Dear Mr. Scott: I write this letter with sincere regret and deep chagrin. It was because of internal complications within the Campus Publishing Com- pany that your yearbook, the Gar- net, was late and not delivered well before your .graduation date of June 8, 1952, as <:ailed for by the contract. The result of the up~ heaval was that the Campus Pub- lishing Company has split into two distinct and individual firms. On behalf of the Campus Publish- ing Company I wish to extend to you, the Garnet staff, and the stu- dent body of Union College my sin- cere apologies for the delay in pub- lishing your yearbook, which was in.curred solely by us and which your staff was not responsible for. I wish to thanlt you for your co- operation and patience in this matter. Sincerely yours, John F. Dwight New York Rep. Campus Publishing To the Editor of Concordiensis: The Student Union Board of New York State Coilege for Teachers at Albany extends a cordial invitation to the faculty and students of Union College .W visit our Student Union and enjoy its facilities with us during the following school year. Sincerely, Student Union Board Rudolph De Santolo, 435 LIBERTY STREET Across from Gallo's GA2ETTE William H. Plath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET PRESS Printers Ch~i~~~n -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J ,',: I I !' 1 Sp~ As Sam B third season and the que the defense the game. The fact twelve lett not be he1 the Union f,oru· inl!xpe strates the the lack (] The baekfij last year ~ putupa~ this yea.r. the'y are sl they did l time. The Joss Randy Ora day and Jc Charlie Ca1 at guards: center are Hammerst: the ability but it is will make at least a losing sea: many yeax Simie 19 undefeatec has .campi nine losse: quate def eleven she to end wi games for St. Lawre and Will breaks, H and Hob~ for then The tw1 have Cha feated 12 Haverfuri whom U: Amherst. may be r' Iiams is t to beat h erhouse i plaeemen team in fl Jeff's wi and' good HalWi on gettf1 the Dutc vantages fact rem continue compete liams, A which h: of atttac many w: an insob There past, th: play the to and: Uke Am· other h~ that we William: are eve1 Tommy America The ( of good awor1d is begin quru·terl \'- Dick N \ - - - - - - - - - \.·· ·= ,, i '~·:: = •.\ = '< ;:II IIIII ,.

in .a ns is to ht ey od ck be m- ho in iaJ a hy I I . !' I., I 3 Union Eleven Underdog in Patten Again Fields Battle With St. L· .a· w.w-on. · .c:·e· . Strong ''T'' Offense I (;:;.. St. Lawrence generally fields. a strong small college foot- ball team, and this year may be no different from past years, bat the team that Coach Paul Patten sends against Union (Continued from Page 1) end to ·center to flU the spot left' vacant by the loss .of Jim Salerno. -and Paul Carbone. As Sam Hammerstt·om starts his third season of coaching the Ur.lon Football, team,.hc The r)ght side of the line should faced with a see J·oe Guerra at guard, John Mc- p r 0 b 1 e m s Mahon, a freshman, at tackle, and are beeom- Tony Gambino, another freshman, too fa- on the end of the line. Sam ex- to him.· pects to stal't Johnny Shade, a the per- senior, in the .quarterback slot. Last Sto Lawrence Ground Gainers • tomorrow will be. seriously weakened by the loss of several of last year's standouts. The 1951 team, one of the best in St. Lawrence's history roiled to se\'en \'ictories, while only ,losing one game and set a new all-time scoring record for the school. Castle Lost ----- Of the 45 men who turned out I left g'uard, a·nd Clark Bmwn, a for Spring practice, only 13 were sophomore; at ct•nter. On th<' right c 0 11 e g e year John took over the quarter- lem of replac- backing duties when Dick Nemeth lettermen, the ·broke his jaw in pre-season prae- c s t i 0 n 0 f tice until he was sidelined himself ·,returning lettermen and one of the side,. Pete ;'.'lillharn, a Junior, should big k<'ys to a successful season for be at end, Larry Schnt·ibl~. a junim·, the LarriPs will be to find an ade- at tack]<', and Gray Whaley, a quate n•plaeement for Boll C>tstle. senior, at guard. Castle, AP Little AU-American The St. Lawrem:e deft.nsi\·e setup 0 ~, not because of a back injury suffered line can allow . at midseason, useoall its potential, :Klingberg, Snyder Halfbacks and the question of whether or not the defense can l~eep the offense in Len Klingberg and Bill Snyder the game. will handle the •ball from the half- The fact that Hammerstrom lost back positions. Klingberg, a jun:ior, twelve lettermen last June could will be at left half and Snyder, a not be he1ped, but the fact that,senior, wiH be at right half. These the Union mentot• expects to sta;rt two men can be expected to carry four ine:xperienced linemen de:tnon- much of the burden of Union's strates the gravity of his losses and. ground ·and aerial a:ttack. In the the Jack of depth of the sql.l!lld. · fullback position will be Jesse · quarterback, ran the high scoring will have Shaw in the backfield T-formation attack for St. Law- along with John Gor·don, a ser.ior, renee last year. Of the four m<'n Gene Thalheimer, a sophomore, and trying to fill that position, Dave· Marshall, Gillette, another senior. Torrey, a senior, and Bob Shaw The line will have Paul Gratton, a will see the most action agrdnst junior, Chuck Woodell, another Union tomorrow. junior, Jim Sikara.s, of the class of Jim Dean, at right halfback, Hon- '54, George MilJPr, a junior, and nie Oat<'s, at left halfbacli, and Bill Brll Plimpton, a s\'phomore along Rose, at fullback, will still give St. with Regan and Hoffman, The Lawrence a good experienced of- latt<'r two arP the brightest spots fensive backfield, since these men on Patten'\ squad. ranked second, third, and four·th i'1 Dick Dobri:o1, Otis Thomas, Paul ·total offensive yards gair:ed in 1951, · Hersey, Bob Kusche, Hall Lennon, when the school S€t the new offen- and Art McCabe should also see a sive record for itself. lot of action on the line. Backfield The backfield remains intact fi'Om · last year and can be expected to • put up a good showing for Union this. year. Hamerstrom feels tha.t the'y a1·e showing better :Eorm tblan they did last year at this same, time. The Joss of .}erry O'Loughlin and Randy Oram at the ends, Bill Fri- day and John Kennedy at tackles, Charlie Carpenter and Ralph Folino at guard spots, and Jim Salerno at center are the hardest to take. Hammerstrom won't comment on the ability of any of his new men, but it is a sure thing that they will make the difference between at least a .500 season and another losing season, Upion's third in as many years. St, Lawrence P. R.O. .Jim Dean, right halfback; Bill Rose, fullback; and Ronnie Oates, left halfbacl~, who will carry the ball for 'St. Lawrence against Union he1•e Saturday. All are lettermen, and .all ran in the Larries' first-string backfield last year. . 8 Lettermen l..ead Soccer Practices Dick Dolan Paces X-Country Trials For the first time Thursday the With one week remaining before the season's opener against the cross country team ran the regula- tion 3 miles, Coach Wilford Ketz practice on Wednesday. was seemingly in good spirits over early season prospects. Returning from last year's club, which posted a fine 4-1 record is ace runner Dick Dolan and another Ten lettermen return this year varsity man, Gary Clough, who, University of Massachusetts, Union ·College soccer coach Franz G'leich had 32 hopefuls out for his first Sinee 1949, when Union had its. undefeated team, the football squad has .compiled a .record of six wins, nine losses, and one tie. With ade- quate defensive .play, the Union eleven should have a good chance to end with a 4-4 record. The big games for the home team will be St. Lawrence, Amherst, Rochester, and Williams. With the right breaks, Hamilton, RPI, Haverford, and Hobart should prove victims and are expected to pace the team. although at present bothered by an Dickson who did such a fine job at that spot as a freshman last They are Goalie Jordy Greenfield, Achilles tendon injury, is rated Samuel C. Hammersbom for the Dutchmen. The two changes in the schedule ]).ave Chrumplain, whom Union de- feated last year, replaced with Havedord and Middlebury, to whom Union lost, replaced with Amherst. While John McL.aught'Y may be right in claiming that Wil- liams is the team in the Uttle three to beat he is building a small pow- erhouse himself. Bolstered by re- placements f1•om the be;st freshman team in Amherst's histc.ry, the Lord Jeff's will have a strong offense and' go·od defense. · year. Gerry Heinzmann, Tom Koenig, very highly. Coach Ketz is also high on sev- Other returning lettermen are Dick Loeber, Ferdie Rapant, Herb era! freshmen including Don Stark Dick Nemeth, a quarterback; Tom Rie, Rhein Vogel, Karl Rheinitz, whose time yesterday was only one Giambruno, a fullback, and Jack. Ross Saddlemire and Biil Sommer- second off that of Dick Dolan. Also Judge, Fred Davies, and Don Reed,' , , back are John Burr, numper one halfbacks. Ed O'Meally returns as Vllle. man on last year's J.V, team and 3-5 Record a tackle, as well as Joe Canale, and· another sophomore Elliot Schecter. Bob Hochuli' and Bill Rudolph re- Union last year compiled a 3-5 At present Ketz believes his start- turn as guards. record on the soccer field. They ing five will be Dolan, Clough, Hammerstrom is not sure of opened the season with a crushing Stark, Burr and Schecter. Pros- what changes he will make in his 7-0 defeat by a strong Amherst pects for a good season seem defensive lineup, yet, but there are squad. In their next gatne they bright again, -likely to be at least three regular edged Massachusetts 2-1. From ----a---- defensive substitutions. there the Garnet boaters fell into Fall Schedule The Union mentor had this to a three game losing streak, bowing b t th t f to RPI 9-1, Rochester 2-1 in over- Varsity Footblrll say a ou e season prospec s or time and Hamilton 5-2. Rebound- his team, \I think that we have a Sept. 27-St. Lawrence• good offense-a good running at- ing from these defeats the club Oct. 4-Amherst tack and a fair passing attack. erased strong winning two of their Oct. 11-Rochester However, the defensive situation last three. They d:efeated Cham- Oct. 1~RPI* will determine whether or not we plain 5- 2 and Albany State 5 -S, Oct. 25-\'Hobart have a good season,\ The Dutch- sandwiched in between a 5 - 0 loss· Nov. 1-Williams• men should find their severest chal- to Colgate. Nov. 8-HaV'llrford* lenges, on their eight game sched- With .eight experienced men re- Nov. 15-Hamiltgn ul, ien their first two games, with turning Coach Gleich hopes to J. v. Fo()otball the Larries and Amherst, and in better the record should the new Oct. 25-RPI their contest with Williams. men prove themselves on the soc- Nov. cer field. However, he faces a Nov. tough schedule with such top op- ponents as RPI,. Colgate and the newly added and powerful Samp- Oct. Oct. Oct. Nov. Nov. Nov. son team. ---o•-~- Intramural Entries Morrisville 15-RPI* . Varsity Cross Count:l'y 11-Vermont 18-RPI• 31-Middlebury 1-Champlain 8-N.):.S. Championships 17-I.C.A.A.A.A. Hal Wittner does not.seem intent on gettfng a softer, schedule for the Dutchmen which has its ·ad~ vantages and disadvantages. The fact remains, however, that it will continue to be tough for Union to compete with such schools as Wil- liams, Amherst, and St. Lawrence which have. some wonderful ways of attracting promising players. In many ways Wittner is faced with an insolvable problem. There have be~n kicks, in the past, that st. Lawrence does not ' Art Lawrence, intramural athletic play the brand of ball that we want director, has requested that .all en- to and should be dropped, Schools tries fort touch football and tennis Varsity Soccer Oct. 4-U. of Mass.• Oct. 11-RPI Hke Aml:\er:et and Williams, on the teams be in his office, in the gym, other hand, play the brand o:l.' ball not later than tomorrow afternoon. that we'd like to play but can't. The football teams should con- Williams beat us 40~0 last year and sist of at least nine men. There are even stronger this year, with will be no blocking past the line Tommy Dorsey a likely Little All- of scrimmage and there will be American halfback. forward, backward, or lateral pass- The Garnet 'bacldield is made up get off to a Jiast start, along with ing at anytime during a play. Oct. 18-Rochester* Oct. 25--Sampson Oct. 29-Albany State\' Nov. 1-Champlain Nov. 5-Sampson• Nov. 8-Hamilton Nov. 14-Colgate *Home Games Three: other~ members of last year's Little All-American 'lqna.i will be lost to the visitors. F.e11 Spenser, the standout center, and guards George Onerly and Bob Walin are gone. Despite the big cut in the size of his squad, Patten seems intent on maintaining his two platoon system and Dick Re- gan, a sophomore, and Ron Hoff- man, a junior, are his two standout defensive guards. On the offensive line should be Jim Clements, a senior, at left end, Ed Orlowski, a senior, at left tackle, Bill Uhlen, a sophomore, at SERVING UNION'S FOR YEARS MEN See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford • Booth and Fol!ntain Service 426 State Street of good hard worlters. Bill Snydelr, Len Klingberg ll!lld Jesse Dickson, Tennis team entries must contain a workhorse fer the p:ast two years, the team will show the student the names of at least four men. is beginning his senior year as are body some thrilling games and they There will ·be two singles and a \ quarterbacks Johnny Shade and cerbadnly deserve the whcle-h.earted ·double in each ma;tch and all must Dick Nemeth. If these fe'llows can suppOl't of the elntire student body. be different individuals_ LICK THE LARRIES! ' l\\'\\\lllll;lll~lll~lll~lllllllll~ll:lll~lll~ll~lll~ll:lll~ll~ll;ll~ll;lllllllllllllll ~ LIQUOR STORE ~ '., \' = = invites you to visit his new modern and spacious Union store on Union Street, where men are cordially welcomed. ~ FREE DELIVEAY § = = - - = =· - - '·~ CALL-3-3110 511 UNION STREET (Across from Mohican} ~ - - - - ~.1 - - - - '.,.;1 - - iiu n mlli IIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit i m Jmtunmm•mm•m• i n••!.l m imm•mm•mmmnmmimmnm•mmm¥ ,. SAME DAY SERVICE In By 10 A.M. Out By 5:00 P.M. SHIRTS OR DRY CLEANING Work Done on Premises BrifemWay Laundromat Col'. Barrett and Union TWO BLOCKS .FROM CAMPUS replacements will be Bob Klides, and Stan Northwp, From prelimi- nary reports Bob Shaw will prob- ably do much of the passing while he is quarterbacking, though Tor- rey is the better ball handler in that spot. Fr-an Shields and North- rop are the other two men who should get a chance to run the team. While Patten is optomistic about his backfield his big losses at quar- terback and the middle of the of- fensive line cannot be overlooked. It is just those W€aknesses that Sam Hammerstrom thinks will give Union a better char.ce of beating the visiting eleven. Beauty FOR SALE! A lovely Diamond with gorgeous bea-uty ... her most precious gtft ••• the liielong assuranc~ of her en .. during place In his \Servinq Union Men For Three Generations\ ~~~,s~~~'b 0\\\\\\j~A~ Sl. JlW(L{fS 0 16o J<ty Street

4 FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 26, as2 Eight Countrie~ Send HELP Students Here 941 Enrolled For '52-'53 Last weekend saw a large regis, tration for Union College. Follow- .ing ahp.ost a week of registration, President Carter Davidson an- nounced that the total student en- rollment was 941. Law School Test Student Council P·onders Question ;of Frosh Hazin.g The first Student ·council meeting of the academic year The Law S!!hool Admission Test Equalling last year's record of ten students from eight countries, Union College's HELP program begins its fifth year of activity. The HELP (Higher Education for La,sting- Peace) plan was organized in 1948 by a group of students, largely veterans, who were interested in promoting interna- was held Tuesday evening in Ha:le Hous~ Lounge. Seve;ral .and the Graduate Record Exam- COI ~·1mi'ttee I'eports wei·e made, the most unportant. of w. hiCh inations will each be given four ·• f th t times during the school year, ac. was the report by Robert Murray, chairman o · e on en a-' cording to the Educational Test- tion committee. ing Service. Most {)f America's Breaking down the figure, there The discussion ranged around the~ leading iaw schools requir•e that were 320 freshmen, 237 sopho- . seeming disrega.rcl that the fresh- DU w· . Alum·n·I· : applicants :t;or admission take the mores, 195 juniors and 189 seniors men were showing for some of the , , JDS , : J!U: ,law aptitude test, and a num:ber enrolled. · older college traditions. The sopho- s h J h\ P· , of leading graduate schools require t ional peace and understanding. Liberal ArtS' is by far the most moi•e members of the council C 0' ars ·fp .fJZe . the record exams. . Spl\nd One Year Hei'e The men selected for this pro- gram spend or. e year at the college as guests of the college and vaiious fraternities and independent or- gani:mtions. The HELP students for thi:; yeai· are: \V. Peter Bromm of Marburg, Germany, a guest at the Alpha Delta Phi house. Bromm was one of 156 students selectpd by the Stale Department's GPrman Students exchar.ge program for study in the United States. He is a graduate of the Realgymnasium of Marburg and plans to take courses at Union in Pconomics and PGiitical science. Friedrich E. Buchler, a native> of Vienna, Austria, is one of 70 stu- dents sponsored by the Austrian students exchange program. His educational background includes graduation from the Bundes RE-al- gymnasium in Vienna and several years at the Technical Hi~h School of Civil Engineering at Graz. Buch- ler intends to takP some enginPPI'- ing coursPs at Union and \ill stay at Delta Phi fraternity. Shimson Frankenthal from Safed. Israel is staying at the Phi Sigma Delta fraternity house while hP takes courses in eiC'ctrical engineer- ing at Union. He is a graduate of Beth-sefer R~ali Ivri in Haifa. Gut'\st of DU Staying at the Delta Upsilon house is Friedrich Frisch of Graz, Austria. Frisch completPd the Real- gymnasium of Graz and will con- tinue his study of electrical engi- neering here. He is also sponsored by the Austrian students exchange program. Shinyu Kuniyoshi, who camPs from Takamine-Mura, Okir.awa, is one of the 75 participants in the United States plan to sponsoi· stu- dents from the Ryukyus. He graduated in Okinawa Foreign Language School in 1947 and since 1950 he has attended the University of the R:yultyus. Kuniyoshi has worked foi' some time as an inter- preter for the armed forces sta- tioned on Okinawa. He will take courses at Union to prppare him for government financial srevice and will stay with Phi Sigma Kappa. Enrique Castilla-Salas from Guay- quil, Ecuador, is being sponsored by Beta Theta Pi. He attended the LUIGI'S REST AU.RANT Specializing in Italian-American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 6-9744 Enioy our Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our New Cocktail Bar • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engri\Ying, too! Jay Jewelry Go. State and Broadway popular curriculum with 307 men. voiced disdain about the frosh fail- · S The Secon d ~~;nnual .Alumni award Law Test chediile There are 116 pre-meds, 84 elec- ure to wear their beanies and pins, . Colegio Nacional \Vincente Roca. fuertP\ and now attends the Uni- versity of Guayaquil. He plans to major in economics. trical engineers, 52 civil engineers, and also the negligent way they to that fraternity which ·has shown The Law School· Admission Test 43 .physics majors and 22 chemistry used the lawn as \shortcuts\. the most scholastic !mprovemer.t will be given at more than 100 majors. In addition, 35 men elected John Moses, SC president, said during the academic yea;r was centers thr-oughout the United the newly instituted mechanical that more compunction was needed awarded to Delta Upsilon at Con-· States on: ,the mornings of Novem- Claudio Segre from Rome, Italy engineering course and 11, the<l:rn- to keep the freshmen \in line\. vocation cer:ernonies Tuesday morn- ·ber 15, 1952; February 21, April 25, is being sponsored by Delta Chi. I dustrial Management curriculum. Robert Murray said that this was. ing in Memorial Cha·pel. Delta Up- and August 8, 1953. He is a graduate of the Licea 1 Also registered this year are 12 true, since there was no way in si'lon, with an average index of 'D 1 1 2.935 (a .383 I'rnprovementl·, 1'eplaces The GRE may be taken on Fri:. · ante Alighre\ in Rome ar:d now transfer students from various col- which his Orientation Committee s t d I Bet Eta Upsilon which won the day and atl.\rday, November 7 a;nd a t<>n. , s the_ Universit).· of R. ome. 'leges and unlvel'Sities, could enforce its dictates. 8 In 1953 t'he \'\\tes J u S t d h 1 plaque last year. · ,, .u\' are· an ary • egie s s u u•s ave ta ten him all - ---·o-- Compromise Plan 30 d 31 A I 17 d 18 J I over the. European continent. He PJ N The final decision was a com- North section of North Colle[e an .. ' pr1 · an ; u Y has. ~lUdi<•d ~n ~ngland,,· France, acement ews I promise plan between those who won the Garis Cup for dormitory 1 10 and 11 · Gerrnanl. the Scandana\Iar. and I favored the return of hazing and irnproveiTert. \Vest College- fourtl· Bulletins and applications for the Benelux countrivs as well as 'his I This \Placement Corner\ will be II th who favored giving the floor was the actual winner, but Law Test should be obtained four native Italy. Segre has att<>nded th<> I used to keep studt'nts, especially I Fr~~~man Council a chance to im- since they have no perennial repre- :to six :weeks in advance of the Salzburg s<\minary for American S~niors, infoi·med on time of inter- rove the situation. The SC then sentative, the cup was given .to desired testin,g date from Law studies ·where Professul Bludgett of VICWS, placement panels, ar.d oth.:r I e ted to send emissaries to the Professor Frederick L. Bronner, School AdmiS$iOn Test, Educational Unwn Colegc is to lect_ure this win· forthcoming ev~z:ts in our e_ffort to j' f~eshtnen and warn them that un- In the ·actual ranking of frater- Testing Service, P.O, Box 592, te.r. He has also \Hitten for \II pe1·form the llaison functiOn be- less the members of the class , 0 f. r.ities, Kappa Nu again showed the Princeton, N.J. Con:tpleted applica\ Gwrnale del~'lsola\ and oth.er daily tween students and em!!loyers. 1 1956 aid more heed to the prob- way, showing an avNage of 3.123 tions must be received at least ten newspapers !n Ro_me. He Will study Henry Swanker.. Director . of, lems P then the sophomore class for the year. North section-North days before the desired testing law and socml sciences at Union. Placen:en~, would hke a talk with could conduct hazing in any way College was the dorm leader, with date. GRE applications may be ob- Polltiral EcOnomy MaJ·or ~ach ~f>mor .. Most of the formal: they saw fit, as long as the war-. an overall 3,087. The average in-j tained from college advisers ·or -di- Rainer, Strehl, a native of Wrls, Austria, is the third participant in the Austrian student exchange p1·o· gram to come to Union this year. He has graduatPd from the Bundes Realeyrnnasium in Wets and will continue his study of politl~al ecunomy at Union. He is being sponsored by Chi Psi fraternity. mterviews Wlt~ employers will be. fare wasn't conducted in college dex for all men was 2.637. rectly from the Princeton address. ~~t:~o~~~ e~~~Il s!~~ors:~~~~d ~~~. bu~dings. t b A, Gold on the. fff;::;::;;::;::m;::m:;;::;;:;::;;::;;::;:;;;::;;::;:;;::;::;;:i;::::;:;::;m:;m;m;;::m;::;;::;mm:;lmm::;:;:;::;:;;::;;::;:;;iil the office in Wells House and fill repo~ Y 'rrrom d d ::: ::: out an Alumni Record and a Place- checrleadi!lg _.sta ~·as rea ' an ',·',·',· I..A·NGII! & ·.·.RA·.p.p p.HA·R~..tACY ',·.' . .',. ment blank. that group will conhnue ~s a sel~- II: m Mrs. G. E. Webster, \\·ho is in p~rpetuatmg ~ody, and strll be ell- charge of the placement phase of , gible_ to rece1ve letters. John J. the alumni office, will be glad to . Cass~dy . read a report fr?m. t?e provide these blanks and arange ~ubhcahqns Board on the JUriSdic- a time for the informal talk with hon of th7 IDO~ magazine to c'?n- Arturo R. Tanco is being span- the Director. 1 duct .motwn picture shows With sored by Kappa Nu fraternity. A meeting of Seniors will be j the a_Id of student tax fu~ds. The Tanco, who lives !n Manila in the called early in Octob~r to discus~ : qu.estwn was tabled until IDOL Philippine Islands, graduated from placement service at Union College.: editor Walter To\:er could be DP La Salle College of Manila in ·---------------,1 present to defend his group. 1949 and has spent three year-s at ~~­ Ateneo de Manila College. He plans to use the engineering knowledge NOTT RESTAURANT ••rhe College S.tudents .Drug Store\ CHEMICALS DRUGS Cor. Not+ Terrace and State Street ~:rv~~~e~f t~i;~~v:Z~n~~~~~ in the ! AND BAR :i;;;;;;;;;;;m::m;:;m::m;;;:::::m::m;:mm;;;::;m;;::m:;m;::m:mm:;;;;;::m;:;;:;;;;;;;:;;~m:m:m:m:::m::m::;:J Nguyen Dinh Hoang, a native of fHE -0 L-@ PIZZA Saigon in Viet-nam, is the guest of Phi Sigma. Kappa fraternity. Hoang who previously studied at the Lyeee in Saigon is attending Union under the Smith-Mundt prog-ram. During 1951 he took his first year of University studies at the Uni- versity of Saigon. At Union he is taking basic science courses in preparation for an engineering \Meet and Eaf af Eddie's\ Welcomes 547 Nott St. Schenectady, N. Y. ' Opp. Green Gate 6-9766 New degree. • 0 Everything in Music and Pianos - Organs Television-Radio Combinations Records - Sheet Music - Phonographs Old Students \' ROBERTS PIANO COMPANY 203 STATE STREET TO SCHENECTADY Phone 2-2493 Open Thursday Until 9 P.M. Str. tip bal. oxford, ......... $15.95 Plain toe blu. oxford • ••••• , • ; $16.95 .li:r o FREEMAN Sh~ Peerless Scotch Grain It gets its rugged character from Scottish tanners. Then Freeman craftsmen shape this royal imported leather into bootwear rich and enduring. NUSBAUM'S Shoe Department \The Nation's Leading Brands For Men and Boys\ 447-451 STATE ST. • Cive yourself this BegiM,Bing-el-the-Te••m qui~~ ••• to help you get better grades on your end-of.:.the-term quizzes Sharpen your pencil and scratch your head for a few moments. This \'quickie\ quiz will save you a lot of head-scratching. hair-pulling and sleepless nights when those all-important finals come up at the end of the term. I. The New York Times brings you more 11ews than any other newspaper. 2. The New York Times has the biggest staff of reporters and correspondents of any newspaper. 3. The New York Times has 100 correspC»Ild-ents overseas in etll important world capitals. 4. lhe'New York Times has the biggest \':~l:fShington staff of any newspaper. 5. Tlte New York limes ha-s Mte bi!)ge$f staff of sports writers of any newspaper. 6. lite New York Times; prints inore of the news you need to help you· in your courses. 7. faculty members in colleges an over the U.S. read The New York Times and recommend it to their students, 8 · Re<~d ing The New York Times every day can help YO\I get better grades, and keop you interestingly informed. T••ue Fulse D 0 0 0 D 0 D 0 D 0 D 0 0 D 0 D .Amswers: I£ YOl.\ answen~d \true\ to aU th •. you ,get IOO'Yo· And you'll get a lot closer to IO:~uestiOns, exams •that really, count, if you read The New % on. the every day to keep up with the news that will h I York. Ttmes class work. You')] enjoy I1eading The Times e p y~ m your ful sp<>rts pages the movi t ' too • · · Its color• , e, s nge and book r . . and fashion page the da'l evtews, the food .,.,. ' 1 Y crossword p 1 ...., · ' urnes delivered right t<J yo uzz e. J.<J get The . . h ur room every da . - 'Wit your Timei campus rep . y, get 1n toucla PHIL FREEDMAN Room 32Si West College resentattve: \> PETE. KAHN Room 216, West C.ollege Soc Vol. 80. •N4 '. Ph t ' A ·I ··,! l FoJ The tJn their first A te:ntath and it inc _Sched This year, most of last .opponents, new ones t( ment list i lege, where fending cha lege, Boston town Univ· ments whii plan to atte versity, an( at Hamiltor The dual incomplete, nell Univen Colleges, as Albany Stat first tQ.ree ' scheduled t road. In additi the annual debates. T campus apJ mentary d the early both facult ants. Alban; The · clirr again will 1 sembly, hel< chamber.s, New York ser.ted. Fo Union Col honor of be Last year piled the ez and 12 }OSSI the victor) lege to urn: institutions Harvard ar Eliot Lash group this is debate Ketchum if Glee ( For C: Forty-fiv forty retu Union Call 1 · the organi: the year forty five selected to Under tl Robert Ca1 hearse eve day. Man: been addec Soloists fo: ert Murrt Milton C. Richard E James x Woods as up an am certs whic' Potighli;eeJ Teacher's with Vas~ planned. The firs the Glee Homecomi ceptio:il fo: game, College Course As are: dents last In the pl ifiated at meeting ' was held Old Chap< Mr. Ea College h struct all bers and discussed which wi .;y:ear, arrd drawing leading i11 ing, paint design. Plans h the work at Union the schoo

