Safety Special Feature Page 3 Vol. ao,· No. 12 -Answers Queries on Scholarships, Chapel By Robe1·t Chaiioff Dr. Carter Davidson inaugurated a new series of Tuesday Chapel lectures this week, concemed with the discussion and· answering of campus problems. Any questions, about which the students are concerned, will be considered for this pro-. gram if brought to the president's office as soon .as possible. The fi~st query acknowledged~·~-----~----~--~ this week was made by the Student. Council. An explanation was asked, ''C' ollego Has of the ne',Y Chapel Asseml;lly which. . . · 11-• · . shall be ·introduced next .semester. N . • .,, President Davidson explained_ that· 0 Comm..,es twenty chapel appearances Will be . · ; II required of all students. Th€lse! · may be obtained in the Tuesday-s· ays Prexy and Friday noon chapels, or the . · · . · regular Wednesday evening and Sunday morning two credit \Union Coll\)ge has n~ fears· Chapels. . . about any Cong):'essional investiga- Prexy gave a glimpse mto next tion,'' Carter Davidson, College terms Chapel schedule, when, .ne. President, said this week. In a. announced t?-at Mr. Gerhart Se1g- statement concerning the proposed ler, a promment s~eaker on the· investigation of American Colleges German problem, Will be ,a guest by Senator Joseph McCarthy (Rep.,· of . the . college. Founders DaY,, Wisconsin), Dr. Davidson said· which will be ce!ebrat?d on Febru- that th administration\ is con- ary 25, shall honor Fitzhugh Lud- ftdent that its faculty is free from low, author of the Terrace Song, any communist affiliation and are and the colle~e ~!rna ~ater. Siu~st ·full devoted to ·the American way· speakers f~r t~Is occaswn ':\Ill ;n- of frfe.\ ~· elude Mort?s .Bishop, who Will, give Dr. Davidson also stated that a short history of our celebrated th d · · t t' · th t alumni, and Dr. Van Wyck David e a mmrs ra ron rs s.orry a Brooks, of Cornell University. He Senator McCar~hy has smgled out wiU speak on \The Future of Cre- colleges as bemg th_e mo~t ~us­ ative Writing in America.\ p_ected of a!l educational mst~tu- ·trons. He said that Umon realizes Must Vaccinate Dogs that even privately financed col- The second m!ftter emphasized leges have a public responsibility by the Prexy was concerned with to society and :are therefore open the recent proclamation made by to· public inspection. He pledged the Schenectady Board of Health, Union's full co-operation in the in its attempt to combat the sud- event that a study is deemed neces- den outbreak of rabies. The board sary by the McCarthy committee. insisted that all campus canines Continuing, Dr. Davidson said, must now be relegated to their \We (the college) feel that, in- proper domesticated position-'the directly, such concern about col- end of a leash. The numerous lege te~ching is a compliment. It fraternities now owning dogs were implies that college teachers are informed that they must have able to influence the thinking of these pets vaccinated for rabies their students. At times, we aca- immediately.. demics have grave doubts about The final issue discussed during our influence, and this public ex- the chapel program was the ever- citement helps to restore ·our con-· timely subject of scholarships. It fidence and self-esteem.\ ---o--- iliumnuil lJuhtl:et Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., JANUARY 9, 1953 Possible Phi Sigma Kappa House • Union vs. Vermont Jan. 12 Here At 8:30p.m. PRICE 10 CENTS Next Semester's Plans Discussed The .Student Council this week voted t0 app1·ove or in- vestigate several plans which will be of great benefit to Union College students. Among these was the investigation of a merchandise discount plan, monthly dances in the gym, and a jazz concert. An anticipated decision on an activities 'cut system was postponed. Hits Ra.cial Intolerance May Get Jwzz Band The Council voted to ask the Student Tax Committee to approve a sum not to exceed $200 for a Ernest Bouey, vice president of the Schenectady Chapter of the Pictmed above is the Seward Place dwelling which Phi Sigma. National Association for the Ad- . jazz band to play the Saturday afternoon fbllowing the ROTC ball. The proposed concert which will fill a gap in the weekend will be held in the gymnasium. Tip Tower, in charge of the affair, an- nounced that he will try to obtain popular Rex Stewart's aggregation for the program. The price of ad- mission is expected -to be $1 per couple. Iiappa is now making finaJ anangements for, ., vancement of Colored People vio- lently attacked some of the na- tion's most popular radio programs as .giving a \misleac:ling picture of Negro people.\ Board of Managers Will Hold Activities Smoker The Board of Managers in continuance of their prograrn to bolster Union College's faltering activities voted to hold an activities smoker in Hanna Hall immediately following Mid-semester Recess. ~------------- The smoker will be he~d on Sun- Canines to Be Registered day, February 8, and Will feature . an informal gathering at which all College physician Dr. Arony told the activities will be represented. the Concordiensis ·yesterday that The purpose of the gathering is all fraternity dogs will have to be to ar.swer queries which the stu-. registered with his office because dent body might have concerning of the rabies scare currently any particular activity and to make circling the community: Each dog it more convenient for anyone in- will be registered in the infirmary terested in joining an activity to and must be accompanied by the do so. It is hoped by the :Board individual owner of the dog, not of Managers tha! the students, his fraternity. Dr. Arony also ad- especially the freshmeTh will avail vised the fraternities to look at themselves of this opportunity to the local papers for publication of develop some extra-curricular in- . the public health laws which un- terests. Refreshments will be served fold the penalties of leaving dogs at the smoker. unattended. The investigation of the various --------------- activities which the Board of Man- agers had initiated recently h,as been postponed to await the re- sults of the activities smoker. It was also suggested that the Board of Managers cooper!l.te more closel}• with the Freshmen Orientation Committee in the future. Mr. Bouey also said that the average negro's aims are often voiced by the negro leader in the aommunity, which is a false view in most cases as the so-called lead- ers often have their own advance\ m.ent in mind. He explained one of the techni- ques used by the NAACP to achieve their goal of equality be- tween the white and black races. This technique, using conferences with community meetings and schools, is, he stated, bringing about the equality of the negro in educational, employment and living opportunities. Claiming that the negro does not want to be over and above the white man 1 Mr. Bouey ·said that the negro only \wants the~ right not to be lynched.\ Mr. Bouey, who is ~ physicist employed by the ~ocket Motors division of the Gen- eral Electric Company-. said that many people are fooled by the poor sources of information con-· Cel'ning the negro and are apt to take one colored person as a stereotype for the entire race. The Social Committee reported that the cost of holding monthly dances in the gymnasium will be approximately $150 per evening, including the band. They reported, however, tllat the gym will not be available until after the ROTC ball on March 13. The council voted to establish whether the dances would be supported by the student body. Also under investigation by the association is the possibility of establishing SDS-Student Discount Service-in Schenectady. Thie plan, which has proved successful in many other localities, enables a student to receive a discount on all purchases made at selected business .establishments. The range of products offered by these plane runs from ga.soline to books and clothing. To Be In Show The college also will participate in a variety show this March in Albany in conjunction with other schools which are members of the local National StudPnts Association was explained that the school's Scholarship fund contains 1% mil- lion dollars. From this we re- ceive seventy five thousand dollars a year as income. This money must be doled out to those stu- dents that the committee deems wmthy for financial or scholastic Mo-untebankS Oil Paintings on· Exhibit at Union Show Deficit · district. Participating ir.stitutions will include Skidmore, Russell Sage, Siena and the College of Saint Rose. One act from each campus will vie for cash prizes. John J. Cassidy reported to the couneil on the history of the ac- tivities cut system-a plan by which the leaders of certain key activities are paid for their serv- ices. The activities cut system had been effect in Union for many years in various forms before it \\:as outlawed by the Student Coun- cil several years ago. There has been some agitation to reinstate it. reasons. Before the freshman The Mountebanks showed a $52 year, Dr. Davidson asserted, is the loss on its performances of \Sec- wisest time to apply for assistance. ond Threshold\ last November, it That group, the Board feels, is in- was announced today by John capable of receiving aid 1 through Shade, Mountebank president. The their own effort13. This is exem- theatre group recently announced plified in the present program. In its forthcoming production in which one-third of jun·ior scholar- March of \PromPtheus B,ound\ and ship aid and two-thirds of senior \Casina\, representative'0 plays of aid is received in the form of a the ancient classical theatre. long term loan. Expenses for the \Second Thresh- o old\ performances . were $772. The F h R • t income from admissions and ad- rOS equtremen verusing totaled $32o and the play To . Be R. , econst·dered· group was allotted $400 by the stu- dent tax committee. At the last Flaculty Council R€'8- sion, a mntion was proposed to r.eplace th€' math r!'quinment with a new course entitkd \Formal Thinking;\ The· course in formal 'thinking can include eithei' a new and changed course in Logic or Math 1 and/or 2. In this way, Math will be optional but the course in Formal Thinking re-. quired. The Concordiensis • has backed the abolishment of the Math requirement for over a year. May Act on LangUage The Mountebanks also announc- ed that · tryouts for the newly- scheduled classical plays which will be given March 19-21 and. 26-28 will be held in Hanna Hall 7:30 p.m. Monday and Tuesday, January 12 and 13. The entire produation will be staged by Pro- fessor Donald S. Jones. ---o~·--- NatiOD Hears· of Cassidy-By Jingle In addition to the expected de- cision on the Math question, an~ John J. Cassidy, former Editor otht;!r suggestion to cut the- curri- of the Concovdiensis, and the Con- culum requirements may be acted cordiensis itself received nation- upon.. It has been proposed· that wide publicity over the holidays if a student makes two failing when Frank Sullivan in his an- grades in a required language in nual Christmas greeting message a bona fide attempt to pass: the in the New Yorker magazine had course, he will then be permitted this to say: to forego that requirement. The \John Cassidy, Good King Wence's \bona fide attempt\ clause has Best to him and Concordiensis.\ caused consternation among some professors en campus. This jingle was doubly ihgratiat- As a result, two of the remain- ing as Sullivan, who resides in ing three frosh requirements are Saratoga and has come to know in progressive stages of being Cassidy . as one would know his dropped. A recent Concordiensis bartender, favored only two other perusal of the body of rules that famous personages with more' than govern the Council meetings one line. Former Editor Ca:S!lidy showed that a two~ thirds' vote of · had as his select company the the council is the only thing that newly-elected Chief Magistrate of can pass a motion. The fom· divi- the country and. his staunch foe, sions have already met and have Adlai Stevenson of I11inois, whom instructed their representatives on Cassidy befriended earlier in the thejr choiCe, term. Two Union students browsing around the art exhibit presentls being held in Old Chapel. An exhibition of famous oil paintings of the Hudson-Mohawk area opened· on Monday, January 5, In the Union College Old Chapel Gallery. Professor John Bradbury of the Art Department is in charge of the exhibition. The exhibition, which will con- tinue through January 26, com. prlses original paintings owned by the New York State Historical As- sociation showing scenes of this area. The exhibit will offer a cross- section of the most important group of 19th century American landscape painters, the so-called \Hudson River School.\ Residents of the ar\la and stu- dents of the college are invited to visit the exhibition. Gallery hours are from 1;00 to 9 :00 p.m., Friday and Saturday and 1:00 to 6 :00 p.m. Sunday. Make-up Exam Schedul.e Posted M~nday, January 12 9:00A.M. Mathematics 21a, Prof Morse C.E. 210 · Economics 45a, Prof. Whitaker B.H. 201 Chemistry 1a, Prof. Bacon- Tuesday, January 13 C.L. 302 9:00 A. M. Chemistry la, Prof. Ewing - English 1a, Prof Weeks-B. H. 302 C.L. 302 10:00 A. M. Chemistry 11a, Prof. Bacon - Biology 21a, Prof. Rappaport - C.L. 302 B.L, 202 Chemistry 11a, Prof. Ewin.g- 1:30 P. M. C.L. 302 Government 12a, Prof. Campbell-' Mathematics la, Prof. Maddaus B.:&I. 108 C.E. 210 Geology la, Prof. Smitp.-G.L. 24 Mathematics la, Prof. Holt - 3:30 P. M. C.E. 210 E. 20a, Prof. Sayre~C.E. 107 Mathematics la, Prof. Stone- 4:30 P. :M. C.E. 210 Economics lla, Prof. Bennett Mathematics 2a, Prof. Burkett B.H. 210 C.E. 210 Economics lla, B.H. 201 Economics lla, . B.H. 201 Prof Schmidt Prof. Whitalter Economics 38a, Prof. Whitaker - B.H. 201 Economics 43a, B.H. 201 Prof. Avery - Mathematics 2a, Prof. Farrell C.E. 210 Mathematics 21a, Prof. Farrell C.E. 210 . Wednesday, .lanUary 14 1:30 P. M. Comp. Lit. 25a, Prof. Coffin- B.H. 102 French la, Prof. Hainebach - L.B. 4 · German lOa, Prof. Johnson- L.B. 4 History la, Prof. Bristol-B.H. 205 History la, Prof. Morley-B.H. 205 History 16a, Prof. Bronner- B.H. 205 History 23a, Prof. Bristol-B.H. 205 History 32a, Prof. Bron:per-- B.H. 205 S.S. 36, Prof. Bronner-B.H. 205 Biology lla, Prof. Clark-B.L. 205 2:30 P.M. History 27a, Prof. Doty-B.li. 210 3:30P.M, Biology 1a, Prof. Dale- B.L. 205 4:80P.M. Physics 21, Prof. Schwarz-P.L. 204 Physics 25a, Prof. Remenway- P.L. 204 Physics 33, Prof. G.oble-P.L. 204 . STUDENTS REP,OR':l'ING FOR MAKE-UP TESTS SHOULD PRE- SENT SLIPS STAMPED WITH THE NAME OF DEAN. In final business, John Moses, Student Cour.cil President, stated that the new chapel system will call for 20 half hour programs to be presented on Tuesdays and Fri- days. Sunday and evening pro- grams will offer two points each. 0 WRUC Renovation Planned Next Term WRUC will return to its familiar spot next semester with a variety of programs which they feel will better meet student needs. Station members have found little respite in the closing days of the present term, for WRUC is renovating its studios and reorganizing broad- casting policies. In preparation for what is ex- pected to be a most successful year of broadcasting, the pioneer sta- tion went off the air January 5. Then, working In planned shifts, volunteers went to work on the station's p h y s i c a 1 plant. The studios were painted, electronic re- pairs made, storage and file sys- tems improved, and a new work room set up. To solve the plaguing problem of poor carrier current reception, WRUC's technical experts were called into consultation. After a good deal of experimentation, with the reception difficulty that has troubled college stations through- out the nation, the station engi- neers hope that they have found the answer. As part of this constructive pro- gram WRUC hopes to open its facilities for wider use by Union College students, and to promote a closer liason between campus activities.

2 FRIDAY, JANUARY 9~ 1953 Letters to the ·Editor ~-------------------------~-· Qlnurnr Suggests Testing Profs On Impol'tant Loyalties that America possesses some other better economic system? We students at Union want to be taught by men who are loyal to humanity. We d,o not want to be taught by that most dangerous of men, a man who is dis~oyal to the human race. The question which all members of the faculty would be required to answer to test their loyalty to humanity is the most simple of all the :loyalty questions, All red-blooded Arneri- <::1\n men and women know the question. It simply is, What is y(}ut• concept of man? If the ar1swer given by a professor does not correspond to .the cm'l'ect one which all sen~ible people know, hfl : -Thy Children's Chorus : I 1 By Hans Groot I ,_--·- -·a-.1- - ... r.. ._. __ -~· Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest.- National Adver- tising Representative: Na-· tlonal Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub· lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, 'l'he Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, subscription lOc a copy ; $3 year delivered any- whera in the United States. SENIOR BO.A.RD ALFRED L GOLDBERGEH '61. ........................ · Bditor-inE-~fief HERBERT h SPIRA '54.., •........ •···············•· .As~oclatte Ed·i\\: MARTIN HAUSER '55 ........ · .. · .... · .. · .... \ .. \ .. \ p;>r ~ ~d 1 it~~- PETER ADLEH '55 ................ · .. \ \\ .. • \· .. ·\ \J!-·~ 8 \ 8 Ed'tor ALFRED H KINGON '53 ................ ·•·• .... · .. · .. ·· ea ulre F'd 1 lt 0 . RIS '55 Photograp lY • or MARVIN B \\ .. \ ·,\\ .... · .. ·\ .. \\\.. J3 slness Manage!' ROBERT L SILVERMAN 58 ............. · ......... • U · · M JOSEPH D.' MARTIN '53 ...........•............... Circulation >wager JUNIOR BOARD GARY KATZ '&5 ................................ Assistant Spo1·ts l!:ditol\ ELIOT LOSHAK '53 ........................... Asswtant ~eaiure ~~;~~~ DONALD SIMJ.I.IONS '53 ....•...•...•....•... Assistant, ea ure Editor IRWIN GEHTZOG '54 ................................. EbXl'hhange L'J't r PAUL GILBF:HT '5L ...................... , ........ · · · 'xc ange \\' 1 ° J LOWEJLL DAVIS '53 .................. Assistant Circulation Manager LAWRENCE GREENBERG ··53, ...•....••• Assistant Business Manager REPORTERS Albert Bar~amian, :-:oah Berley, Hohet·t ~'hartoff, Hans _Groot. James Garrett, l·~<l\in llirkg, !;iorton Kahn. Dand Ka•s, Andre\ Kay, J?aepll Martorano. :liather :\Iauro, Lowdl :!.i.,•·kler, Donald Moh_I:, BenJ,.amln Sadock, George Soffin. ;\lorton Silver, Armman ToomaJlan, \\alter Towet·. BUSINESS STAFF Robert Be~k. !\lartln \ley .. r, Alft·erl \\arlel, Leslie Sabin. CIRCULATION STAFF Richard Borst, David Gregory, Gerardus Jameson, Duncan J4acArthur, Robert Larsen, Robert Adsit, Karl Hebenstreit. Looking to 1953 As the new veat· rolls around and all the greetings are done and gone, lt behoon>s \lS to look at the outlook for 1953 and see what it should have in store for llnion ·College. First, it seems that the field housP is becoming more and more of a necessity on campus. The gym is definitely not sufficient for an emollment of nenrly 1.000 students and more attempts should be mnde to get the plans undee- way. An earl~· Consordiensis story stated that the field house may be started in the spring. We hope so. Perhaps in t:nion College's small way, the erection of a suitable auditorium mav invite some culture to the 1Ja1·ren city of Schenectady as. the RPI field house did in Troy. That alone is reason enoug-h fo1· constmction of the planned addition to our campus. Cut for Activities Heads The Concordiensis has talked long- and deeply about the cut system for activities heads. At the last student council meeting this question wns sent for· another com- mittee's perusal of the pmblem. We would like something done on this score. Activities have been suffering as of late and a few concessions to the student groups may result in a little more participation in the said activities and thus give them a healthier aura. Also the :\Iountebanks are trying something new this year with two plays from the Ancient Classical Theatre. Professor Donald Jones has gone ahead with great initia- tive to bring- more of the culture to the campus and the area that has been so noticeably lacking. The production will require a great deal of work on the part of the students and staff and promises to be an event of importance. A Comprehensive Program Union College is the seat of Union University, which was chartered in 18-!S. In addition to Dudley Observatol'Y and the Nun,ing ~chool in Albany, there is also a Pharmacy College, a Law School, and a :\ledical School. The two graduate schools, Albany Law and Albany Medical have been part of the Cniversity since their inception and have been a soutce of pride to the ttustees of the University, and rightfully so. Albany Law has been known to turn out good lawyers and Albany ::\lclilical College has produced more than its share of fine doctors. l\Iany of Cnion's students enter the graduate schools of its Unive1·sity. This has heen the cm;e for many years and will probably IJe the same for many more years to come. Many times the Union College student has been given preference over other students who apply to the g-raduate scheols. This is what it should be. A Six-Year Course But what we'd like to suggest to the administration is the fact that in other CniYersities across the country, a degree from the unrter-graduate school and a gFaduate degree may be obtained after six years of study. This might be unusual for medical students, but in law, it happens in a great many instances. Even in such schools as Columbia, Harvard and Yale, six year courses leading to two degrees, one in arts and the other in law, are part of the curriculum. Although many Union students have entered Albany Law School after three years, they haven't received degrees. The Concordiensis would favor a comprehensive under- graduate-gmduate program with the Albany professional schools leading to two degrees in six years. Dear Editor: I 1·ead in the Schenectady Un-ion- Star of December 29: 1952 that Senator McCarthy plans \te in- vestigate the nation's colleges in a search for subversive influences.\ If the Serator is concerned with subversive teachers and professors, logically spea,king, he ::;houlc;l not only investigate them with respE:ct to their loyalty to the U.S., b.ut tp the tqree mol?t impot·tant loyalties, loyalty to the college w.here they teach, loyalty to the subject which they teach, and loyalty to human- ity. I am deeply concerned that Union should not harbor such sub- versives, and propo.se therefere that the Administration and the Board of Trustees help out this great Senator from Wisconsin and immediately conP,uct an investiga- tioll in the mannet' that Senator McCarthy WQU1P 1 In this day and age qf science all .glorious, there must be some- where in Wasllington a Bureau of Criteria which has a list of stand- ards fo1· the loyalties which I men- tioned. All tho ad:minl2tratlon has to do is to write to this Bureau or to Senator McCarthy directly ·and it will receive immediately a set of questions and' answers. HoW- ever in order to avoid serious de- lay the following questions, which would be ~imilar tq those that th§ Administration woul!l r,eceive, should be answered immediately. shc:mld re::oign, · After the members uf the faculty have answered all the questions correctly and satisfactorily, they should be required to .sign a lqyalty oath which would read as follows: I pledge my loyalty to Uni.on. Ool- Ieg e 1 to t!'tei t•espected ideas of the :;;ubjt~ct whi.on I teach, and to humanlt~. I am extremely worried for my safety and the safety of my fellow students, and I hope that the Ad- millistra.tion and the Board of Trustees Will carry out such an investigation as I have outlined as quicldy as possible so that we the students of Union College may be educated properly a.n.d ss,fely., Si:qcerely. y.OUl'S, James A. Farrell 'M ---0--- Decries Lack of Winter Sports Here at Union Those who wonder what Harold M. Val~ de Car does besides' refereeing lacl'osse games will be impressed to learn that his. office reports the 1952 Alumni Gift Fund brought in $100,000 give or ta!{e a couple of thousand. That's a fine testimonial, not only to Mr. Van de Car's work, .but to what Union alumni think of their college. i:i'ew otaer colleges receive such loyal support from their gracl:uates and few put it to such good use. Whe•·eas ne~ly ;dl Qf Mr. Van de Car's $100;0QQ fol.' 1952 will be used to- increase faculty sll.larie!l, many othel;\ cpllege!! would ploy such a sum l:tack mto 11-thletio scholarships ii\ the n!\ive belief that by buying foo.tbi!Jl teP.ms they were improving t:neir Institutions. pus. Prior to 1947, there were no Rathskeller and no WRUC. If. :{. :{. Things do chang.e for the worse, howevet·. Prior to· 1947, the Alpha Delts always used to have at least four hardy souls who sl.ept out-. doors in their second-floor porch, all winter. Not· even the D,U.iil: could do ttmt now. · Also on the \go:;-.e but not for- gotten\ theme ~·e the free 'beet'S that the WOl~den used to dispense .every Ch:ristmas afternoon. We dropped in liill'ing the reeent JJ,oli~ d~ with ot1r oldtime Yuletide thil•si; to.nd were forced to part with $8.10 to satisfy Same. In tl).e old days ·it would have been gratis l!olld we~d have come away with , a pocketful of pretzels. We did come away from the Worden this time :with a bit of poetl'Y found on the wall in the men's room. We'd turn it over to the Idol if that publication printed poetry. Here, for the Idol's infor~ ma.tion, is verse: Lest we grow compla,eent QVel' Mr. Van de Car'.s ~i(ll;l,{IOO, It must be .pointed QUt that alumni have not alWfiY!! been so generous. It wasn't until 1945-Union's sesqui- centennial year-that the alumni ever subscribed anything lik~ t-he $100,000 ef 1952. In thf3 past 50 years, Union aluml\i have ri.sen from near tne pottom in per Qa,pita g;~ftf\ ~Q their alma mater to the ve.ry top, or ne(U'ly so tn several recent annum~. Ali>~:~, colleges- - particula.rly tha engineering va- riety, are more expensive than ever Christmas on the Molm.wl'i: .to operate. A greater pontributlcm is needed from everyone. Yet, as She took niy candy and my books' Mr. Van de Ca,J; ~elnts 0 ut, it is She took that lustr.ous \vl'ap of not th'i\ mze of the eob,tribution fur .. Do the professors of Union Col- lege show their loyalty to Union by attending all athletic cnte.sts? Do they show the proper respect fQr the members of tile Administra- tiol'j, th? BoEj,rC\ gf Tru~tees, and the founding fathers? Do the pl'o- fessors wear the proper attire that all Union profess ors should wear if they have respect and loyalty for Union? The most important question concerning a professor's loyalty to Union should be: Are all the criticisms directed by tilE> professor toward Union, construc- tive? th<\'t is slgnificent: it Is the num- She took tl!ose, gloves I bougltt. . , . . ber of people who feel called upon for her. To the editor of .:.on.con\lensJs: and inclined tq give that it almost As a I!~W~om~r to Union College, She took my words of love. and! I was shocked to find a complete more im,p(H't!l.nt, . ea!'e, lack of any sort of a winter sport!;~ On,e ha!l ollly tQ truk with .men She took my flowers rich and program for the student~;~. I dis- who gl'aduate<l 10, 20 and ·30 years rare. qov.ered this defioit wP,ile inquir- ago to get the feel of how much - u i h She took my time for quite a ing about tile Union College Ski .. 11 ~n as advanced. Dean C. w. Team, which incidentally, turned Huntley recalls that when he was while. out to be mythical also. Although, a senior (and editor of the Con- She took my kisses, maid so shy, I grant you that winter sports c;lo cordiensis) in 1934, there was no She took, I must confess, my eye. npt thrive in the varied climate West CoUPs-e and ou.ly a total of She took whatever I would buy. of the Huds·on Valley, it i~ diffi-· 40. men, in North and,South College Allcl then, she took a Dartmouth cult .to understand why RPI has Dormittuies. There wasn't even a · Members of the mathematics de- partment must be required to answer the following question: Do you teach the Pythagorean Theorem in the Joyal manner that the square of the hypotenuse equals thP sum of the square pf the other two legs, or are you dis- loyal to mathematics and teach that the square of one leg equals the square of the hypotenuse minus the square of the other leg? such an out~;~tanding ski team, and Plllce tQ blly a. sandwich on cam. guy, we, by a new ruHng ef the T!•us-1. -Union, '53 The members of the philosophy department would be required to arswer this question: Are you teaching- the idea of Joyal phil, osophers that there is a universal logic to solve the problems of the universe or are you so (!isloyal to philosophy that you teach that logic Is only a tool to get tlie answer that one desire.s, and If it doesn't work, to substitute a new logic? Today when the concept of com- munism is running rampant, Union should be anxiously concerned about its ec~momics department. The members of this department must be t•equired to answer this question. Are you teaching the be- lief of all loyal A:rnerlcan econom- ists that the United Sates ha.s had and now has a wonderful free en- terprise system or are you so dis- loyal to economics that you teach tees, now have none. T!lis COlll!l!l about, despite tlw fact that the Union Ski Team has alread)! been invited to New Engl!J,nd's Norwich University winter - carnival. This will only go to emphasize to pros- pective students tqat although we may have a high scholastic !Itand- ing, our athletic standing with other colleges is, as you know, sinking stea!lily lower. Turning to. other winter .sports, it seams at !east .slightly feasible to flood the lower athletlo field, ar:d give those of us who have some skati:qg a):lil!ty an oppor- tunity to exercise our cliair-weary legs. Even though a hockey team is out of the question, it would be benevolent of the oollege to give some of the h,ockey ta.Ient which we do have here a chance to chase the puck ai·ound s~mething be- sides a dol;'mitory room, A As the final· l)traw, the fact that the annual winter weekend Is be- Ing omitted in favor of a military ball seem.s to clinch the idea that, come winter, the whole of Union College migrates, bag and baggage, to the Memorial Gym, there to stay till the violets bloom. Carl. Maynard '56 For Your Information Attention is called to the Union dent's Office, 4:30 p.m.; American College Art Department exhibition Society of 1\:Iechanical Engineers, of oil paintings by artists of \The EE--22 8 p.m.;Conce!'t \The Elec- Hudson River Sch{)ol\ <famous tricaires,\ _MC, 8:30 p.m., Burt Page American paintings of this area and Joseph Tague, ·duo-pianists. by masters of the early 19th Cer:- • Student tickets at door, sixty cents. tu:y>. The exhibit will be .open WEDNESDAY, JAN. 14.- MAKE- dati?' through Sun~ay, ~anua.Iy 25, UP TESTS· c · R , OC dunhg the fo!lowmg time: Mon- . : amp~s: osaty, . . days thru Thursday-s 1 to 3 p.m. n~IO.n, Jewlsh Rehg10us _ServiCe, and 4:30 until 9 p.m. Fridays, 1 Sl~hman Hall, noo~; Arnenc~n In- to 9 p.m. and Saturdays and Sun- stitute of Electm;al Engmeers, d 1 t 5 EE-22, 6 p.m.; Engtneers of East- ays, o p.m. ern New York, OC, 8 p.m. • FRIDAY, ,JAN. 9-Daily assembly. THURSDAY, . JAN. !&--Daily as- recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC; sembly, speaker, Major Joel B. r.oon; \Circle K\ {College Kiwanis) Qtiinn of the United Nations, \The OC, 7:30 p.m.; Concert. The Octavo Work of the United Nations,\ MC, Singers, MC. 8 p.m. Handel's \The noon; Fraternity night · MPssiah,\ student tickets from Mrs. Bradt, 2-9405, sixty cents. FRillAY, JAN. 16-Daily assem- bly, ·recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, SATURDAY, JAN. l~No sched- MC, noon; Faculty Women's Club, uled activities. home of Mrs. Jonathan Pearson. SUNDAY, JAN. 11-Sunday serv- ice, preacher, The Rev. Robt. B. Fulton. Chaplain of Union College, MC, 11 a.m. \The Church and·'Eco- nomics\ <First in a series); Organ rPcital, Mi.ss Helen Henshaw, MC, 4 p.m. No charge. ·628 Nott St., 3 p.m. SATURDAY, JAN. 17 - Varsity Basketball, Union vs. Hobart at Geneva; ROTC examinations in afternoon. SUNDAY, JAN 18 and SUNDAY, .JAN. 27-Music Program, MC, 11 MONDAY, JAN. U--Daily assem- a.m. bly, program by the student coun- ·~foal Examinations-January 19- cil, MC, noon; Foreign students, 28 inc. OC, 12:45 p.m.; Varsity Basketball, Mid-Tenn Recess - January 29 Union vs. University of Vermont, through February 7. · Gym, 8:30 p.m.; American Institute Slmday Service, February 8 Of Radio Engineers, EE-22, 8 p.m. Preacher, President Carter David- TUESDAY, JAN. 13 - MAKE-UP son, MC, 11 a.m. TESTS; Daily assembly, speaker, Registration, Second Semeste1·, President Cai'ter David~?on, MC, Feb!·uary 8. noon; Women's Staff Assn. OC, Oiasses resumed - Moi1day, Feh- 12:30 p;m.; Faculty Council, Pres!- rtia.ry 9. Visit the Newly Decorated and Modernized LUM FUNG R 'E S T A U R A N T Chinese-An,erican Food • Cocktail Bar ORDERS TO TAKE OUT 185 Broadway Just of! State Street i·························-······-··-···········-~ I I GUERRA'S PHARMACY Prescripti-ons Fountain 600 UNION ST. Servioe COR. BARRETT ST. Just Two Blocks from the Campus ~--·············································J Serving Union•s Men. For Years See your agent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-56 7 6 I 14 State St. near Ferry FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 FREE PARKING * 1115 BARRETT STREET For Car Troubles See a Union Man • William H. Plath Auto Service 60 I UNION STREET L G. BA-LFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES- RINGS- FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIF.i'S STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB. PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN ~ 80 Murray AYe., Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TRQY-ADAMS 8-2523 ROAD TO BALl BINS CROSBY BOB HOPE DOROTHY LAMOUR also Dana Andrews-Marta Toren Geo. Sanders-Audrey Totter also · Iron Men also THE RING ,, FlliD~ c M: fata;li coun1 in th for 1 ingtl were 1 stand peopl And we t1: in th battlE ] a bul _risk : accep co ron en em but i· tified is th~ J. and 1 than that care IE die ir has a bod fil'e rai!J Y4 your car f 1. 2. 3. 5. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. capal Car of d1 hand noth' your sural worl< the ' it's ~ that ditio abou the virtu list ( is, rl give I

,, FRIDAY, JANU~RY 9, 1953 Cats Don't Think - - - You Do!! Mistaken Tragedies Somewhere else on this page the figure of au.tomobile · fatalities, 20,700 is given. This is the tota~ number that was counted in 1951 all over the country. In New York State, in the first nine months of Hl52, traffic accidents accounted Letter to The Editor for 1,468 deaths and injured 119,014 more. In Korea d1:1r- To Editor of Concordiensis: ing this same period, 3.,161 Americans died in 'battle and there Dear Sir, were 11,885 WOUnded. . I was pleased to learn that a Although these figures are incomplete for the year, they forthcoming issue of the Union stand as a test. In one state alone of the 48, half as many College \Concordiensis\ is to be people were killed in traffic accidents as were killed in Korea.· partially devoted to the cause of And when you f!et the final tabulations from the other 47, safety as it applies to· the oper- ~ ation of automobiles by young we think you'll find that the number of traffic fatalities here drivers and since this is a major in the continental United States far eclipses the total of· problem conf1·onting law enforce- battle deaths in Korea. ment agencies today r am glad to endorse any measures which the In war, m.an accepts great risks knowing full well that. students take of their own accurd' a bullet may hit him. In traffic there seems te be greater. to help reduce the appalling ac- risk as born out by the previous figures, and man does not cidcnt rate in t):le community. -accept them until he's lying under a blanket waiting for the · Self-enforcement is one oi the coroner to issue a verdict. It isn't a mista·ke when the greatest means to approach the problem as it is entirely impos- enemy shoots his rifle with the express purpose of killing, sible for police agercies to effect but it is a terrible mistake, and one that can never be rec- a total progmm which will cause. tified when a traffic accident causes death. The plain fact the arrest of an violators. If each · th t t f'f' f t l't · · t k · young driver would act as if he lS a a ra lC a a 1 Y IS a n:llS a e. were personally responsible for im- Any violent death will ·represent tragedy to the victim posing upon himself complete ed- and the bereaved and civil deaths are more in abundance hercnce to all traffic controls in than those deaths recorded in Korea. But the difference is the absence of a regular police of- th t K t d h d . . ficer there would be a drastic re- . a a • orean rage y ·as a 1gmty and meaning which a duction in the number of accidents careless mistake can never attain. They in Korea didn't that occur at intersections eon- die in vain, while you who died in traffic did. Tower below, trolled by traific devises. Reduced has a few suggestions which may keep you among the living. accidents mean lower insurance A L G rates and everyone berefits as a ------'------------------------·-·_· result, to say nothing of the sav- Stop Look and Listen ing in lives which is sure to follow such a reduction. I ask each stu- dent at Union College who drives a car to cooperate fully with the police of the city and cour.ty in which they are now residents in making Schenectady's s t r e e t s among the safest in the country, . by exercising extrem.l? caution ir . the operation of the1r cars espe- cially during the coming winter 'rhis couple didn't believe the railroad c1·ossing sign. Their bodies are still trapped in the burning remains of their Bu1ci{ as firemen wet down the smoldering auto. Over 1400 die annually at raih•oacl grnde crossings. You Can Do This: months. You are'to be commended hirhly for the interest which your publi- cation is taking in this safety pro- gram and we hf're at the Polic~ Dept. truly appreciate your efforts. Very truly yours, J. Joseph Foli\Y · Commissioner Of Polict> ---,0--- Statistics These statistics are from tl:e National Safety CounciL They are printed in the hopes they will make YOU aware of the kiiling power \i\OU have every time YOU sit behind the wheel of a car. In an average year: 9,000 killings take· place because of excessive speed. There are things that you cari do to make yourself and your car less liable to becoming a statistic: Look at your 1,400 killings are due to <!rivers' failures to be careful at grade crossings. car first and use this guide as a check-off sheet: 1. · Are your brakes as tight as they should be? ( 2. Are your tires up to pressure and do they still have plenty of tread on them? ( 3. 5. 5. o. 7. 8. 9. 10. Are your windshield wipers and horn in good working order? Is there a minimum amount of play in your steering wheel? Are ALL the lights on your car in good working order (tail, head, brake, parking, directional)'? ( ( ( Is your motor in good shape so that there is less chance of your getting into trouble on the road? ( Do you have and USE chains or snow tires? ( Do you have adequate insurance? ( Do you hav~ a good mechanic who will keep your car in top shape all the time? ( ) 9,000 pedestrians are killed by mo- torists. ) ) 13,800 people are killed in accidents involving two or more cars. 1,300 people killed in collisions with fixed objects. 37,300 people were killed in all in 1951. 11,100 people are !tilled in non- collision accidents-mostly over- turning. 22 out of every 100 killing acci- dents involved someone who had been drinking. ) ) ) 3 out of every 4 killings take place . at night. 28 out of every 100 killings tal'e place because drivers are going too fast for road, traffic, or weather conditions. Are your windows free of obstructions to your sight? ( ) 21 out of every 100 killings take These are ways that you can mal\e your care more place on Saturday; 19'7{ on Sun- capable of giving you the service for which it was designed. day. Car manufacturers have spent years and countless millions 1 million, 300 thousand ·peop)e were of dollars making your car a safe instrument for you to injured non-fatally in 1951 · handle. But ·after you have bought the car, they can do· These are the facts. YOU have th . t k 1 a better than average chance of no mg o rna e you >:eep it in good condition. That is joining this elite group of dead your job alone. The A.A.A., National Safety Council, in- people next year. Are you taking surance companies, the police, and all the campaigns in the the chance? It's a wonderful op- world are of no avail unless you co-operate. It's not up to portunity to get your name in the newspaper!!!! the other fellow to make sure his car is not dangerous; it's a two-way deal. You and the other fellow have to see that both cars are safe and qualified to be on the road. If your car has passed these tests, it should be in con- dition to give you the best service possible. But what about you, YOURSELF? There is no sense in going over the don't of driving. The readers of this paper are, by virtue of their drivers' licenses,' qualified to give a lonO'er list of don't than we have space for. BUT, the pojnt h~re is, do you live up to all the instruction that has been given ycu? A trite, but cojent jingle goes: \He who drives with Conscience clear \Never has Bad Luck to fea1;l\ ~Tower Final Term Grades It Is ·expected that all studer. ts will receive their final term grades early in the week of February 2nd. Students wish- ing grades before the final com- plete report lU'e reminded that they must leave addressed post cards with their instructors either at the last class meeting or placed in the blue book at the examination. This is the only method of receiving a grade prior to the mailing of the final report to the student's parents and adviser. Death H aun.ts th.e Night Roads; ~20,700 Got Theirs Last Year Saturday night and a light, damp, drizzle settles down on the City of Schenectady. The last of the lights in the taverns has winked out and traffic has all but vanished. To the fom· officers cruising in prowl cars this is the worst part of the night ... the time when murder on wheels is likely to show up anywhere in the metropolis. ---- <$> It doesn't take long for the first Last Rites ~ A Catholic priest administers the last rites to another of thf' thousands of accideht victims killed needlessly every year. The National Safety Council says that over 9000 are killed each year in auto mishaps Involving excessive speeding. Christmas Present A 12-year-old boy lies on the l'Oad b;tttered and dying •aftPr he was hit by a young motorist who told pollee his braltes would not wol\li. The child, strucli; on the day after Christmas, was riding his new bicycle the twisted J'emains of which are shown at the lower left. All photos on this page by James Garrett, CoUJ·tesy of Drennan Photo Service. call to come ... \KEC 792 to cars 3 and 4. Check report of bad auto accident at Union Ave. and Brandywine Ave. Doctor and Am- bular.ce responding.·• Big Crash . \\'hen the police arrivP, they find. two 160 horsepower behemoths, ir·- rr•parahly damagrd, in a death lock al the intersection. Six people, sprawh•d haphazar·dly ·on the street, are s\\ iftly tr<msported to Ellis Ge-neral Hospital where the doctor·s will try to straighten their twisted features. After seeing that the wreckage is removed, the officers resume their patrol hop1rg that they won\t have to answer another accident call. It is police officers like these, along with the ambulance drivers, insurance officials and tow truck operators who can give the best testimony on accider.t prevention. It is generally agreed by all that a lethal combination of a greater number· of cars, with more power- ful engines and antiquated roads are a major cause of auto mishaps. Follow Basic Rule Experts say that while all mo- torists are a ware of the conjested road situation the motorists don't follow the basic rule of safe driv- ing -driving according to road con- ditions. Another cause of accidents. po- lice say, is cars in bad condition. Some states have already takPn measures to force jalopies with faulty brakes, poor steerir.g and bad exhausts off the road. The New Jersey inspection system is rigidly enforced and registration is denied to any car that doesn't meet up with the requirements of safety. Similar legislation has been corsidered by New York State for the past few years. Last summer, the Schenectady police set up road blocks on four major artPries leading from the city. In a short period of time, over 500 violations were issued to motorists driving unsafe care. A similar check in Rockville Centre, Long Island showed a high per- centage of dangerous cars. Don't Drive If Drunk The National Safety Council re- ports that .almost one fourth of the fatalities occurred in auto ac- cidents were directly caused by drunken driving. A Marine, about to be married, was killed in a head-on collision in a down state county last Spring. In the back of his car was foun<l a half case of beer. When an autopsy was per- formed, the remaining beer was found. Three quarters of all fatalities occur at night, statistics show. Coupled with excessive- speed, this proves to be the major killer. A little known fact, the AAA points out, is that it takes HQ.5 feet to stop a car going 30 miles per hour and over 240 feet to stop while going 60. Many a 200 foot skid mark leads to smashed cars and wrecked lives . LP.arn to Drive While the number of accidents is incrPasing, positive steps are be- ing taken to stop the toll. Among the most effective steps is the or- ganization of the AAA Driver Edu- cation program. Through t~he co- operation of local auto dealers, new cars are lent to high schools where students are taught the safe way to drive by competent teachers. \ Other important steps include the elimination of traffic blocks to keep the flow of cars steady and th£> formation by many towns of traffic commissions to study traffic problems. •1111111 I 11111111111111111 '1111111111111111111111' §BOOKS § BOOKS ~ BOOKS . HISTORY, LITERATURE, GEOLOGY, FICTION Come in a11d prowl James C. HowC)ate Bookseller 128 South Church St. ;o ..... , ............ l •••• , ....... ll.lllllllllllllll£! • ..

4 Work in ... CALIFORNIA Seniors in Civil Engineer.ing May Apply Now Attractive, permanent positions in California's huge highway program. Wide choice of loca- tions. You can qualify now. Go to work IMMEDIATELY on graduation. Wdte TODAY for information and application form. $341 to Start - Early Raise STATE PERSONNEL BOARD 1015 L Street Sacramento 14, California Mullan em en KN, DU, Top School Loops With the halfway mark -of the winter intramural season drawing near, the basketball and the vol- . leybal) races still re!llain dose. · Titles in the six leagues still are from decided. In basketball,. K. N. ·!\.Dd D. Phi lead the National league with 2-0 records. D. U, is on top· of the 'Garrett Union's mermen pose in a \Block U fot• the cameraman~ Witu a record of two wins and one loss, their next meets will be against For<lham and NYU in New York o.n Feb1·uary sixth and seventh._ loop with a 2~0 mark, ·while the Rushees and Baters, both 1-0; trail close behind. R. A. and Alpha Delt lead the Eastern 'league with 1-0 marks. In volleyball, Kappa Sig, 3-0, and D. Phi, 2-0, seem to have the national league race all to themselves. The .uneri. can loop has three teams tied for .first with 2c0 marks. They are Phi Gam, DU and the Betasi ·T-he race· in the Eastern league is st:ill wide open:· with no undefeated teams · left. However, :0 Chi and Chi Psi, .both 2-1, are. out ahead. It was announced this week by Director of Intramural Athletics, Art Lawrence, that games origin- ally set for the fourth :and the seventh of February have been re- scheduled, since the above dates conflict with Mid-year vacation. Team managers are advised to check with the !>Chedule in. the gy!.)l. Drop in for your Union College Courtesy Card which entiHes you to special College prices at DAMBROSE CLEANERS 637 Nott Street \Just around the corner from Green Gate\ Union College courtesy cards are available to all students, faculty members, and their families. During Your Mid-Year Holiday MAKE IT A WEEKEND. IN NEW YORK SPECIAL LOW STUDENT RATES $4.50 per person p.er da/ . three in a room $5.50 per person pEl\ day two in o room $6.50 per person per day one in o room Attractive rooms-all with shower and bath DANCING TO GUY LOMUA UDO IN THE FAMOUS RUOSH/ElT GRill Write or wire MISS ANNE HILLMAN, College Representative HOTEL ROOSE\fELT MADISON AVENUE AT 45TH STREET Frcmk G. Wangenian, General Manager A HILTON H 0 T E L The Schedule for nex:t -week is as follows: Basketball Friday, January 9 7:00 p.ni.-KA-Dormies 8:00 .p.m.-ASCE-D Chi 9:00 p.m.-Eaters-Rushees Wednesday, January 14 7:00 p.m.-Theta Delt-KN 8:00 p.m.-Betas-Phi Ga.m 9:00 p.m.-Phi Delt-Phi Sigma. Delta \A powerful force in the-se difficult times\ says FRANKLIN D. MURI'HV Chancellor, University of Kansas \In these days when much is said about 'ad.u1 t education,' we too often forget that a g;reat deal of adult education is daily carried on by such instruments of public information as The Reader's Digest. In my judgment, The Reader's Digest is one of the powerful and useful forces shaping the thinking of our people in these difi'icul t times.\ The articles in each issue of The Reader's Digest cover a broad range of subjects: from travel and politics to science and history, from humor and personal inspiration to .head. line news. Forty or more articles and a host of short subjects, carefully chosen from hundreds of publications, bring Digest . readers more varied and more concentrated info:rn:iation ' than can be folind in any other magazine. * * * In J?-nuai'y Reader's Digest, you'll be interested in The Way It I a in Korea-James Michener reports the facts of. war in Korea today; 24-page book condensation: People of the Deer-Farley Mowat's experiences in the Arctic with a lost tribe of Eskimos; More Work With Less Fatigue-facts from experts to help. yo\l accomplish more, tire yourself less. \ Br( Fa~ Bl What literatm ·reasona· sport den miratto1 peramei -cient f, hea:lthy . visa ac choose remain .first Ie1 governil Litera should I esthetic the sin1 and ori delightf tionay. 'be who: be univ aims, ~ attitude a Iibera presum: read at ting. These Thomas MEDiC Brown~ taste, a tion is dty for of the writing tongue, the pal1 is adde -know c and un: once c' who sa row ve• on the yond.

5 FIUDAY: 1 JANUARY 9~ 1953 Which Is Your Favorite Piece· Of Writi~g, Prof? Browne's Religio Medici By Alfred Kingon w ld' R d Looking for a symposium' . OU · · ea Hans Brinker Enj:oyable Fav. ··ored by. ·. Profe Murphy· ~h~~~ twhaet h:~~ ~:;:reedn~:r~~ Everythi.ng I h~y d~~~g:~c~OB~:~~~ with ~:~~~it~.o, it is hard to pick a . thanks the invitation to comment Then too there is a time ele- By William M:. Murplty able Christian faith who was able past we hit upon the idea of: I p· ·• · t on 'my favorite piece of literature' ment. I remember once, too long What is my favorite work of to ·affirm in an age torn by the . n f\ln which slavedriver Goldberger said ago I thought \Hans Brinker and literatuue? The question is un-. strife.· of ·conflicting prejudices, having our professors get It · · . I had to answer. the Si·lver Slrates\ was great and reasonable, implying in .the re-. even as our own is: \I could never,into the act. (This was also a By Carl Neimeyer My reluctance is based on the when I was 13 or 14 I was all for spondent an exclusiveness o1 ad-,. divide myself fr an rna upo I am afraid I have no \favorite fact that I have no favorite piece Robert W. Chambers. ml · 1 ,atr'.on wholly ·a:lr'en to' 1, 1 ·.~· \-em- · · om Y. . n n: strong motivation since in piece of Iiteratut·e.\ If by ''favor- Last week I fin1'shed Er1'c Gold- \ L the drffeuence of an .opmron, or be of literature. You see, I read too ·perament. No one food i$ ·Suffi- angry with his judgment for not the last two weeks they have, ite\ you mean something one re- much-it is one of my bad habits. man~s \Rendezvous with Destiny\ .cient for the nourishment o.f • a agreeing With me in that :from turns te again and again with re- Moreover my .reading is far too which I think I will use in class hea ·lthy· 0 urr'osr·ty. wr··t·h the .pro- · · · · O'iven US plenty to do .n· ewed ,pleasure. I certainly~obvi- whrch perhap15 wtthm a few days· \\ • varied in too many forms and too· next y(;lar. (:Adv.) This morning I . viso accepted, I am happy to• r should dissent myself.\ What Some answers ·did not make ously-re-read Shakespeare with ma;ny fields but I like it. Sometimes took out of the library Paul Angle's choose one work that will always could be better than to read a .print for a variety of reasons that pleasure, b1:1t to say he is my I read a book threugh in one or· \Bloody \Williamsburg\ and Rich- remain a f.avorite with me. But whole book py a man who could . \favorite\ sounds hopelessly prig- two \sittings\ but more often I ard Morris' \Fair Trial.\ I like 'em, .first let me define the standards write such a sentence? Three cen- we thought were interesting in gish and' is not even altogether have five or six on the fire at but favorite? I don't know. governing my choice. turies have passed since Browne themselves. Dr. Graves felt that ·his· true, Beti).g always with the very Literature is art: hence· c;lur wor-k ·wrote, but we have not improved favorite pieces were technical· great, Shakespeare, Dante, and s.'hould have the nower to move us un on hr\m or hr's tal t or· h' Aeschylus, would be like living tll.e .- · ,.. , · en • 18 works in his. field and did not think esthetically. I ,prefer it ·als<> to )::le attitude. rest of ones life on pemmican. One the .singular expression of a rich ___ 0 ,___ · he coqld construct an article of needs bulk as well as vitamins. and original mind, not merely a, · , g~:peral interest describing them. Once I would have said-not alto- delightful phrasing of the conven- ·T, .h.e Bible .Professor Stanley, after delibera- :gether flippantly-that I re-read tionay. But its char·tn should .not Ill nothing with more pleasure than 'be wholly idiosyncratic. It should tion, was not sure at all. Prof. something I have written myself. b~ unive~s:;ri in }ts sout'hucets and us 1 Js .. pf,•rst·. Rfojtansky wats funthforttt~nateiyb to~t ;row, tho~evtehr; I fi 8 ntds~mops 1 t of wbhaart arms, arrsrng •. rom a genera , , o · own mas •o · e rme- u rn :.. wro e rn e pa 1 Y em - attitude that reflects what we call' By Clifford Pearce , a brief note said he would have rasing. If I want to read for a liberal education. Finally, .I .am pleasure, I prefer English fiction, presuming a work that •can be After l'\.11 is said about literary liked to talk about one of the Rus- Scott, .Jane Austen, Trollope, E. read at a single, if sustained, sit-· experience, the Bible must be given sian novels. : M. Forster, and Ivy Compton-Bur- .ting. first place. It is poetry, drama, ·his- So, here they are-your profes-· nett; but almoflt antyhing in print These are the standards that Sir story, psychology, ethics and reli- · sors writing in answer to the ques- is interesting, including news- Thomas Browne's REL IGI 0 gion. To rea.lly understand a work tion: \What is your favorite piece papers, ·throwaways, catalogues, MEDiCI (1636) meets perfectly,· of art one 'has. to live with it over of literature?\ ·railroad schedules and telephone Buown1l's .prose may ·be an acquired the years. 'The original incompre- directories. H there were nothing taste, as some claim, but acquisi- hensible becomes meaningful. Per- else, I would read these. They are tion is free to an.yone with a capa- haps one leaves it, only to return ·Transfer Requests at least print, the end result of a dty for apprehending the 'beauties. to it as ohe becomes wiser. Students expecting to request mechanical process, not like radio of the English language, Here is As prose, the Bible is simpie, . transcripts at the end of the and television, vvhi.ch being pro- writing that can be rolle<l on the clear and majestic . .As biography present term, or wishing tran- cesses in themselves are constantly tongue; relished, crushed against it is candid and rich. As an epic scripts already mailed com- intruding upon our enjoyment to , the palate. And to the joy of style' it has few equals. As philosophy pleted,, must leave such requests ··call attention to their ·own irrele- is added the delight of coming to it has thoroughly permeated our at the office of the recorder on · vant meritll or defects. Only read- know one of the most refreshing culture. Where can one turn, in or before Saturday, January 17. ing and conversation are intellectu- and unsual men who ever lived, at letters, art, music, history, without No requests will be accepted ally satisfying, but the art of con- once conventional and heterodox,· encountering its ferment? . during the examination period, versation, having died before I who sailed through \life in a nar- My evaluation of a piece of . and early filing will enable ad- was born. (I am told), reading is row vessel }lut kept his eyes fixed literature is in terms of its total. · vanced preparation and immedi- , left. I would even read student on the horizon, and what lay be- effect on me. In those terms, no ate mailing. · themes with pleasure if I did not GAZETTE P,RESS Printers yond. Here was a man of unshak- other work approaches it. have to read them and if they were l~e~g~ib~l~e:·----------------~----_J~~~~~~~~::~~~~~::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r----------------------------------1 \ BEL.L MEET YOURSELF- 10 YEARS FROM NOW Ever wonder what you'll be like when the class of '53 holds ·its I Oth reunion? If you started to work for one of the Bell System telephone co!-Ilpanies after graduation, here's a pretty good idea. POSITION IN THE WORLD: On the way up l A Commercial Man- ager, the company's representative and sp?kesman to as many as fifty thousand customers. A Transmission Engineer, helping to provide ~he telephone needs of an entire state. A Supervisor in the Traffic Department, responsible for the speed and qualit;y of local and long distance service in several cities and for the personnel relations of a large number of employees. In the telephone com- pany, jobs such as these are held by relatively young men and women. FUTURE: Unlimited! The Bell System continually progresses and expands and its personnel grows with it. In the past 2 5 years, the number of telephones has almost tripled. In the past 5 years, tele- phone companies l1ave introduced s1.1ch things as network television transmission;. radrotelephone service and dialing of Long Distance calls. And the best is yet to corne. FRAME OF MIND: Confident and proud! You'll be satisfied be- . caus~ you have a rewarding job ... not omly in pay and sec1.1rity ... but in ~ervice. You'll be proud of yonr share in helping provide and develop a telephone service vital to the country's social and economic life. Like the picture? For further information see your Placement Officer. He will be glad to give you details regarding the oppor- ,tunities for employment in the Bell System. TELE.PHONE \\' SYSTEM MASTER OF ![ughes cooperative plan for SCIENCE DEGREES I I I I I I L-------~--------------------------~ Purpose TO ASSIST outstanding graduates in obtaining their Master of Science De- grees while employed in industry and making significant contributions to im- portant military work. Eligibi~ity June 1953 college graduates and mem- bers of the armed services being honor- ably discharged prior to September, 1953, holding degrees in the following :fields: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING PHYSICS. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Those chosen to participate in this plan will be from the upper portion of their graduating classes and will have evi- . ,..._ denced outstanding ability. They must also have displayed some degree of crea- tive ability and possess personality traits enabling them to work well with others. Citizenship Applicants. must be United States citi- zens; and awards will be contingent upc;>n ' obtaining appropriate security clearance, as work at the Hughes Research -and Development Laboratories may be re- lated to National Defense projects. Universities Candidates for Master of Science De- grees must meet the entrance require- ments for advanced stu.dy at the University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California. Program Under this Co()perative Plan, commenc- ing June 1953, participants will .follow this schedule of employment at Hughes: FULL TIME-fromJime, 1953 to Sept., 1953. HMF 1 TIME-from Sept., 1953 to June, 1954. FULL TIME-from June, 1954 to Sept., 1954. HALF TIME-from Sept.; 1954 to JUlie, 1955. Rel;ipients will earn five-eighths of a normal salary each year arid attend a Addres8 correspondence to COMMITTEE FOR GRADUATE STUDY university half time during regular ses- sions working on their Master's.. Degree. The salary will be commensurate with Salaries the individual's ability and experience, and will reflect the average in the elec• tronics industry. Salary grovvtl1 will be on the same basis as for full-time mem- bers of the engineering staff. In addition, the individuals will be eligible for health, accident, and life insurance benefits, as well as ot11er benefits accruing to full- time members. For those residing outside of the South- PrQ/IJel and ern California area, actual travel and Moving moving expenses will be allowed up to Expenses ten per cent of the full startin.g annual salary • Tuition, admission fee, and required Sponsor1h:£p books at either the University- of Cali- fornia at Los Angeles or the Unive~ity of Southern 'OJ,.lifornia, covering the re- quired number of units necessElfl' to ob- tain a Master's Degree, will be Jlrovided by Hughes Research and Development Laboratories. Approximately one hundred Coopera- Number tive Awards are made each yem, if suf- of Awards ficient qualified candidates present them- selves. Candidates will be selected l:ly the Com- Selection of mittee for Graduate Study of tl1e Hughes Candidates Research and Development Labora- tories. Application forms should be obtained Applioatioa prior to February 15, 1953. Completed ProceduN applications accompanied by up-to-date ' grade transcripts must be returned not later than Febmary 28, 1953. Selections will be made during the month of March. r----------------------~ I I I I I I I I I I I I I I HUGHES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORUl:S I - _j L------------------ ... Culver City, Los Angeles County, California ,,•

6 FRIDAY, JANUARY 9,. 1'953 Plac.ement News Larrabee Rem reads Follows Scientific Method -for Choice9 Work Camps to Be •·Subj~ct of Parley A Placement Bulletin is out this: notify the interviewer of the hours A -nJeeting is scheduled for week, addressed to Seniors. If you . required on the schedule. Thursday, February 12, a:t 9:00 have not reeeiveq one, ask for it Study the February program and By Dougolas W. Campbell • charge over the \true meaning-,\ p.m., in Old Chapel for students at Wells ouse, or call 4-4100. let us know which companies you L .. P. Smith One who finds himself to be a with \higher criticism/' \lower (or intereste-d in attending a summer The only January interview is· wish to learn mol'e about. This professor, a pluralist, a political ce~~u.ry ,of _ th~ .common m~n.> · work camp. There will be an in-· for the Philadelphia Shipyard and applies to many of you who have scientist, a pa):'ent, and middle- c:Jttc;,sm, S;nd mlddle-c~ass ?rib- fot'ma.l discussion o nwork camps . Turbine Laboratory. Eng-ineers in-: already been in the ·office, and tine Ry Ha.rold A. Lal'l'abee aged may not be inclined to thinlt Clsm.. In thls way, Favorite Pteces and a sl:lowing of photographs and_ terested in this should tell us so doubted·ly to some whom we have in terms 0f \a favorite piece of of ~Iterature follow ~he Neo-Ma!-, slides talwn by former work camp: at once. The date is next week; ~ot yet seen. Read the paragraph I interpt•et 'favorite piece ,of' literature.\ It hardly conjures up tlmsian ~aw, that while the n\tm- students, John Maisel, Earl Jenni- Friday, Jarmary 16; and, we must ·of the Bulletin which precedes the literature' as the book to which I ghosts, however, t0 respond to a ber. of p1eces lJ?-crease~ . b.Y anth- son, Robert Murray, Irwin Gertzog, list of interviews, for its invitation return most frequently with the request (and especially to a re- mehcal pr.oportwn, crihcism fol- and Pat Fuo-azzotto wfio attended · ·bay be particularly for you. greatest pleasure, and not tl:le one quest whirh proePeds so dirPctly to lows the more accelerated m.- athe- cnm-ps in c~rmruw.' rto.Jv, Austria, - eamp seholarships may be obtained I k • t t' th t gth t' f t · \ \ · t Ch 1 · F lt • ffi ·f We shall be glad to make ap• ran as grea es on e s ren · the ~!-leal of student and teacher rna 1cal pace o geome nc propor- and Holland. a ap mn u on s o ce, rom of one or more memorable -read- alike: \one page of double spaced tions, until reaching the McCarthy the above mentioned w.orlr camp· pointments for you to consult with ing~. You might t-hink a pl1i1 n~n- t.~.pe\) Limit, And, finally, tho \Lil thday A 11)' •t11rir>nt -rr.'1y att.-.nd R work :>tudent:>, !Jl' fr·o 1 u Pwf. Bl'istol and :Mr. Swanker. Ask in the ·office 1 1 h d f Pl t \ •t · h ld cam]J on his own but for· those· p f S'lb Th- f t b for data on com-panies, current pher wou d p ump ar or a o Casting about for criteria and for date\ of this favor1 e p1ece s 0u , ro . 1 er. . ese otms mus · e S t b 1 who need financial aid there are d th Ch 1 · • ffi CiV.il Service announcements, and or Hume or Dewey or an ayana,. a suitable \frame of reference,\ my if possible, show a favora le rea- · · ._ returne to e · ap am s 0 ce b th h . h t · f t th f b f limited scholarship funds ava1l- by Ma-rch 4- 1 ·n o»der -to be eonst'd- information on bmnches of the ut ose are 1g spa s 1n pro es- thoughts begin to come in,. like a tlon o at o some mem · er o •. · 1 l' f du t d' · f ·1 able. ..Aipplication forms for work,. ered- for ·tl\\e- scholarshlin, • .~ military service. s1ona or me-o - Y -rea mg. program on Channel 2. The piece ones arru y. ,. When it comes to selecting the· must be pregnant with a human Laying- myself al0ngside the ever-enjoyable favorite, I find it element. In the age of the atom above criteria, and proceeding with: hard to choose between 'All Trivia\ bomb and of sociology, of Hiro- complete faithfulness to the \scien- by Logan Pearsall Smith, and 'The: shima and of Trobriand Islanders, tific method\ my favorite piece of Notebooks of Samuel Butler' by of nuclear physics and of tele- literature is THE CONSTITUTION· (naturally) Samuel Butler. vision, the human element may yet OF THE UNITED STATES, signed· Between them, these two books· lodge at the cenetr of the piece September 17, 1787. (Our daughter have almost all the bright ideas without yielding to the charge of was born September 17, 1942.) that are likely to occur to anybody, \anthromorphic\ or \ethnocentric.\ and they are beautifully put, There must be suspense. With Law Aptitude Tests especially by L. P. Smith, a Phila- \cops and robbers\ having become Attention of students is called delphian who. ·went to Oxford. tru-ly international, open equally to to the date of January 31 which learned how to write, and then did all, regardless of race, creed, color, is the final date for filing ap- just that. Samuel Butler supplied national origin, or age, one can- plications for admission to the Berna1·d Shaw with a large share not fail to see that the ending,! Law School Aptitude Test which of the latter'~ ideas, so if you en- however, bloody, must be happy. will be given on F~bruary 21. joy Shaw's plays, you can have fun There must be debate and counter- L----------------' discovet·ing where some of them came from. Of course it is a little mite discouraging to discover that Butler has thought of most of our brilliant 20th century notions. and stated them better than most of us ean. But to get back to 'All Trh•ia.' It consists of about two h1mdred pages of mostly single-paragraph thoughts exprPs~ed in mpPrhly polished prose. Since alrnost no- body, nowadays, bothPrs to choose words carefully, and to balance sentences rhythmically, Smith is a joy to read. As he says himself: 'These pieces of moral prose have been written, dear Reader, by a Engravings In This Issue Are By SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 .lAY STRffT your headquarters for Shirts AT M .• B. GR,AUBART & SO:NS We Repair ••• Your- WATCHES Your JEWELRY, Your SILVER Utmost care is taken by skilled workers io give you every reason to be pleased. -Watches and clocks cleaned and repaired -New watch cases and 'bands -New watch crystals inserted ......;Pearls and beads r,estrung -Jewelry and silver replated and repaired 166 JAY STREET - Opposite Mohican large Carnivorous ).Tammal, be- longing to that suborder of thP Animal Kingdom which inc! udes also the Orang-outang. th~ tusked Gorilla, the Baboon with his bright blue and scarlet bottom, and thP gentle Chimpanzee.'\ ·······················~ Chesterfield. :is Best for YOU! i SLACKS i • • 5 TROUSERS 5 : i 000 Pairs to Pic:k F.-om : • • • • 5 ROCHESTER 5 • PANTS STORE • = . •liS Broadway Near State: • • ~······················~ THE ACME BARBERSHOP 509 UNION ST. \Where the Service is a Pleasure•• (Nearest to the Campus) • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaire<l • Engraving, too! Jay Jewelry CD. State and Broadway \\THEY SATISFY-AND HOW .•. in s.chool and out, I've been a Chesterfield smoker for 5 years,\ says.John B. Boyce, financial analyst. \\They've got what it takes to ~ive me what I want in a cigarette/' COLUMBIA UNIV. '50 -And First to Present this Scientific Evidence Effects of Smoking on A MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular, bi-monthly examinations of a group of . people from various walks of life. 45 perceil.t of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years. · After eight months, the medical specialist re- ports that he observed ... no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the g.roup from smoking Chesterfield. CHESTERFIELD-FIRST and only premium quality cigarette available in both regular and king-size. · L Copyright 1952, LIGGETT & MYERS 'fonACCO Co. / ' . -·-.-- Vol.-~ F ··~ . ·C:: CJ 'I setup lishin be sa or by Tllis does n men;t,: bers oJ it offeJ ficient fields requin ter.ed' • In li 10 will of thE one-thi cours~ ate an terials. forma:! go int• the cia course ciass J: A c: quiren: brougl: W!l£ IE profesl ment. that if grades pass tl allowe• course the re be wai this r1 many indivic taken The add tl not tal the nE campu not be Pa 011 The ment exhibi1 work J of Art more -the 01 on dil to 9:01 Inch be pai ver, 'ei so inc be a stud en class. Mr. Memp been : past t he ta1 emy c of a at Ut Pardq· strilcb The ern P startir will s porta:r our ti to be differ• the a point!: pictttr !1-nd, it Ch• ()Jj its fred that g<nes next the .test . nlgll for• mitt droJ whl• :boo] test Che: .. Satt

