' dis- dam rests than erve. not fer con- for pose. the ctl!al per- that all N\hat- flood na- sole face as d re- to aJ:nes obert tl The Editors' Notebook: Six Week Summary Page Two Vol, 81, No.7 Founded .czt Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y •• NOVEMBER 6, 1953 Mr. Hammerstrom Answers Pulsebeat Columnist Page Three PRICE 10 CENTS HPC_MeetsFrosh Elect Engkvist RUShing Nov~mber a, Eiection pay -here·· - · . . at Umon as wei las• the rest of the . ··. · . .. · D . . dl. k. ' country, saw a record ·shattering ·e- -a. . ·O•C:- . . seventy-three per cent of the fresh- . · . . man class tuvn out to· vote for, their class -officers. Theodore Last W~dnesday night, the Engkvist was elected president by ~ newly organized House Fresi- a ph1rality of thirty-~!ne vites, and dents' Council, replacement Damiel Clapp· became vice-president • Announce A wards As Memorial To R. L. Patterson f I ' I f with twenty-five. There were fif- , or · ast ,Year S ·nter rater- teen candidates for the two offices,. ' nity Council, held an infor- -and, all together, they attracted , mal meeting in the Hale two hundred twelve v:otes, House lounge Like the In- · The three-day campaign was terfratm·nfty Council, the characterized by a myriad of post- , Secondary school graduates asp1rmg to continue their education in the field of liberal arts will, beginning with the 1954-55 academic year, be eligible for four Robert Porter Patte1·son :Memorial Scholarships, which have just heen established by Union College. ers. adorning the campus. 'They primary concern of the House . covered all of the available wall Presidents' Council is to dis- space in West .college, and most qf ---------------~ In announcing the new program, cuss problems common to all that i:n South College. fraternities, as well as to pr&-. Also elected was Sidney Mann, mote. a greater interfraternal with sixty-eight votes out of one hundred ninety-seven cast for feeling on campus, secretary.' There were four can- \Cold War Is ·Real\ .. Mayer Future Rushing Pians didates on the slate for secretary. · -Concordiensis Photos by Ralph Manias Pictrn·ed above 'are Theodore Engkvist and: Daniel Clapp,. newly (;llected President and nee-President of the Class of 1957. T;he first, and perhaps most Due to 8; mixup, the election of a. pressing, issue- discussed by the class treasurer was postponed un- council was next year's rushing til this ·'11uesday, when the voting policy. As it stands now, the coun- for Student Council repvesentative.S ell is decisively opposed to the two will also be held. Petitions must .. student ·c.·ounci··l D.ebates policies set forth by the adminis- be turned ·in to the Student Activi- tration in the past two years, . ties Office by noon, Saturday, No- namely= full semester deferment · vember 6 · Math Requ 1 • rement Pr· ob· I em of rushing, or immediate rushing The .President, as well as the . · · · · · · : i during the first two weeks of. representatives, will be expected The Student C<Juncil, the body which helped eliml·nate school. to attend the meetings of the Stu- Gerald Barandcs, house presi- dent Council. He is also the Freshman math requirements, discussed that matter again. dent of Phi Sigma Delta, has pro- spokesman for the Class of 1957, during its last meeting on Tuesday, Nov. 3. It acted on a posed instead a new policy on fra- in all matters. • complaint that this yea1·'s sophomore class has been caught ternity rushing, namely that \. . . The very gratifying turnout for in a squeeze as a result of this mathematics policy. rushing shall commence on the the major elections has led every- Sunday following fall ad-interim one to hope for an even larger. Other topics brought ·up at the~·~-------------- marks. This period shall run for percentage of vo.ters for freshman meetiGg. incluc;ted proil! weekend, the odor emanating from College eleven days until noon of the treasurer and Student Council s?veral complamts about some phy- Creek, found two possible explan- Wednesday before Thanksgiving. representatives. ·siCa] defects on the college ations. Professor Smith attributes The period of silence that will fol- o · ~rounds, reports on freshman_ elec- the smells to the library cesspool. low this rushing period will ex- • • . twns, freshma~-~ophomore n:valry Another valid reason may be a tend from noon on the Wednesday SpeCial AttraCtiOD week, a~d publicity for athletl~s, a deficiency in the Schenectady sew- before Thanksgiving until the fol- _ · . blood dnve, and plans for a Tippe- age system. Barsamian plans to lowing Tuesday at -6 P.M.\ After T H\ ·h}i 'h p canoe Conference. seek out further clues. SO)ne discussion, the council de- 0 Ig . g t rom The council considered the pre- A committee was appointed to cided that the policy would be dicament that many sophomores see what could be done about the most effective if Prom weekend A special attraction, in the form now face-the possibility of being many Schenectady boys who use were pushed back to the last week of an informal dance on Saturday· dropped out. -of school, no matter the 1,.ryrn, many times to the ex.clu- of October, so that rushing would night, Nov, 14, will highlight the what their index, if their freshman sion of Union men. extend over a reguiar football closing of the footbal ]season, The math requivement is not satisfied o--- weekend, instead of conflicting dance wil lgive special attention .to by the end of this school year. A WRUC Holds Elections., · with Prom weekend. the stars and coaches of the after- suggestion was made that the A subsequent vote of 12-5 in noon's game. Music will be fur- council proppse a one-)'ear ex ten- N arne young to New Post favor of the Barandes Plan ap- nished by Phil Patico's band. sion on the requirement to the Stu- The outstanding feature of the peared to satisfy no one. The HPC The $2.50 prom bid will covel: dent Affairs and Relations Com- the WRUC elections held last had previously decided that a both · dances, and a committee mittee. Tuesday was the election of Alan three-fourths vote would pass the under John DeGoeipan will decor- Stephen Holbrook reported on: Young to replace Lin Swaringen as proposal. As this arbitrary figure ate the gym in an Air Force motif the display contest to be held be- Business manager. Young, a· junior, was not reached, a long and futile for both nights. · fore the Hamilton game on prom . is a member of Kappa Nu. Others discussion followed on the merit .of Following last year's precedent, weekend. He announced: that the newly elected are David Rosso- setti~g such a limit. The entire thirteen faculty members will have winner's cup had been ordered, mondo and Fred Gottlieb, who problem W!!.S finally postponed a chance to pick the Prom Queen. and that sixteen fraternities had have advanced to the positions of until a later date. Each one· will present a long- agreed to make displays, co-chief recording engineers. During the meeting; Harold 01- stemmed rose to the girl of his The possibility of procuring spe- Walter Hoffman, station man- sen, president of Sigma Phi and choice, and the Queen will be cia! railroad rates and/or privileges a~E>r, has announced that WRUC acting president of the council, picked from among them. Michael for the many girls coming from Will not broadcast the Haverford read a letter from Dean Huntley Rabasca is in charge of these ar~ New York City for prom weekend footbal !game, due to lack .of funds. urging fraternities to abandon any rangements. was brought up, but it was agreed The Student. T~ Comm1ttee felt ,pledge trip assignments requiring The Prom Committee, headed by that it was too late to act upon that the proJect would prove too During chapel last Tues- day, Dr. Herbert C. Mayer, president of the American Viewpoint, Inc., delivered a talk on the subject \Defense in the Cold War.\ Dr. Mayer heads an outstanding citizen- ship organization which is now in its thirty-first year. He is especially well known for his leadership among youth groups, and in recenl years has been active in na- tional movements to intexpret and emphasize the American ideals and practices. H'e lucidly brought out the fact that the cold war is a real war. Though there is no actual shoot- ing warfare, a highly combatant campaign of objectives, ideals, and methods rocks the world today. This is war in almost every sense. The final blow may not be phys- ical, but it shall be mortal. Our Greatest Weapon Reaffirming the recent state- ments of Vice President Nixon, Dr. Mayer stated that our main weapons in this battle should be ideas, not guns. By taking full advantage of our high ideals of individual freedom and dignity, we would be blasfing the enemy at his weakest point-the crux of the entire problem. Tuesday night, Dr. Mayer spoke to an audience of students and visitors on the subject, \I Saw Czechoslovakia Fall.\ This in-- cluded a first-hand account of the steps leading to the Communist coup, plus a description of the coup itself. The usual question and answer p-eriod. was turned into a lively debate when one of the visitors proved to have been an on-the-spot observer who dis- agreed with Dr. Mayer's analysis. hitcl::i-hiking. The letter stated William Morris, is advised by this proposal in time for the fall costly. that such trips tended only to place Major Milton H. Weiss. Dominick festivities~ --------~-~-------------------- a pledge in a position of getting Carbone is in charge of publicity Holbrook also reported the out- c d A N seriously injured. The adniinistra- · for the weekend. come of Frosh-Soph Rivalry Week. oncor y · nnounces ew tioi:i's condemnation of pledge trips· The sophomores took. the pil!g- actively began after Hell Week in ---o·--- ·pong, football, and basketball Sent·or B·.oa.rd p~·- romott·on.s .,April, 1951, when three Phi Sigma Debater· S Split At events, giving them a winning total Delta Piedges were involved in a of 60 points. The freshme11 · serious automobile accident on the amassed 45 points by copping the Troy-Schenectady road. Several of Nov···ce Tourney chess, checkers, and. volleyball the council !Ilembers said that . . · contests. 'The tug or war, which \pieqge walks,\· instead . of long In the Novice Tournament, at was rained out, could not be re- p1edge trips, or a Help Week in- Hamilton on Oct. 31, Union Col- scheduled because of hOUr exams stead of the traditional Hell Week, ·lege split,. winning three out of this week. might be worthwhile changes in its six debates. The Affirmative's, Preliminary plans were drawn the present pledge policies. John Lott and William Robinson up for the semi~annual Tippecanoe Rules Committee won one of their three debates Conference which the.-council span- A committee consisting of Har- while the negativesfi Charles En- sors in the fall. Sunday, Nov. 22, old Olsen, Michael Rabasca, Wil- zer and Carlyle Fis1Ier, took two was chosen as the date. The con- Ham Barlow, and Gerald Barandes, of their three. Albany State was ference is designed to bring the had been previously set up to the big winner with the impressive Student Council tog ethel' with . formulate the rules by which the record of fifteen out of eighteen' members. of the student body, fac- Presidents' Council meetings are won. ulty, and administration to discuss · to be run. As yet, little ht'ladway Further debates have been sched- vital problems. A tentative list of has been made concerning the uled; Nov. 11 two .teams meet AI- invitations was drawn up. question of rules, since the rushing bany and Nov. 16 one m~ed team, Jerome Cohan reported that 300 Proble m has been the most press- · . d b te basketball programs .could be both Novice and Varsity, e a big issue up to date. The Rilles mimeographed for $.85. A dis- Committee membcri'f had decided at R.:P;r. cussion followed as to whether it would be wiser first to solve the The Nov. 5th debate with Saint programs should be distributed for r 11 shing issue, and then, with the Rose has been cancelled. Wednesday and Satur<]ay games, able advice of some faculty mem- or fov Saturday games only. bers, start work on formulating Notice to all members of the A survey committee, consiSting the rules of procedure. Now, how- Concordiensis . • • of Herbert Baker, Anthony Tar- ever, due to the deadlock on the There will be a full staff taglia, and Jerome Cohan will in- rushing' problem, it was decided meeting this :Monday night, No- terview the head of. a different that the rules of procedure were of vember 9, 1953. This will be activity each Friday afternoon to primary .importance. the most important meeting of discover any pertinent information The final item of the meeting the year. The main item on about that activity. The Rath- ~1!-S an announcement by Gerald the agenda will be the plans for ske!ler was the first activity inter- Barandes concerning' the initiating . the Concordiensis Banquet viewed. this coming Tuesday night, Novem- ·which will be held on November · Jamee Brown was appointed ber 9, of a series of ft:aternity ex- 16, 1953. head of the blood drive. It will change suppers. Barandes is the All Concordieiisis members ·probably take place sorne time next originator of the new program. An· · a.re .expected to attend. semester. (.Continued on Page 4) Albert BarsaJlllian, ·investigating At a Sehior Board meeting of the Concordiensis Monday evening, major promotions were granted to Robert Richter, Irwin GE'rtzog, and Al~n Rosenfeld. Irwin Gertzog, who has been a~•>-' --------------- member of the Junior Board. as Exchange Editor since the fall of 1952, has been promoted to Feature Editor. The position of Feature Editor encompasses a greater portion of the Concordi- ensis' work than the Exchange Editor has done in the past. The expansion of the feature depart- ment with proposed symposiums and new columns will plaee a heavier burden of responsibility on Gertzog's shoulders. The cap- able manner in which he has han- dled his E;x:change Columns in the past gives evidence of experience and ability which qualify him for his new seat on the Senior Board. The members of the Senior Board and the whole of the Con- cordiensis Staff realize the tre- mendous task and responsibility which face the Copy Editor. They have, therefore, decided that this position qeserves to be included in the Senior Board, for it is due more credit than the Junior Board ·can give. Robert Richter, who has done a splendid job of copy reading-checking and correcting every sentence in the Concordi- ensis before it finally appears in print-is the reason for .the eliml\ nation of most of the grammatical, typographical and spelling misde- meanors which plagued last year's editions. Richter has been, until recently, a \man behind the scenes,\ a sort of unsung hero, who has contributed much to the paper as proofreader, reporter, and columnist without having his name appear on the masthead, New Exchange Department Alan Rosenfeld, whose merits in the Foreign Language Department and knowledge of foreign culturef! have earned him a seat on the Junior Board as Assistant Ex- change Editor, is a relatively new member of the Staff. Previously, the Exchange columns featured news from the American college- front, although the Exchange edi- tors corresponded with eleven for- eign schools. Plans for future editions to include choice tidbits from martyo colleges on the Con- tinent and Latin America necessi- tate the addition to the staff of a man With a sound knowledge of· these areas. Rosenfeld has re- tlll'ned this fall from M:exico. President Carter Davidson -said, \Robert Porter Patterson firmly believed that government should be administered by men of integ- rity and character, who :placed duty to country second only to God. He not only believed this: he practiced it. The Board .of Trustees of the Robert Porter Pat- terson Fund are using the income from the Memorial Fund to car-ry the ideals of Robert Patterson in- to the life of future generations through the establisllment of these scholarships for broadly cultural undergraduate study, awarded on the basis of open national com- petition to young men.\ Valued at :ji4,000 apiece, each scholarship covers complete cost of tuition, fees, and buolul, in ad- dition to some other expenses. They may be continued throughout the four years of college, depend- ing largely upon continued need and the academic achievement of the students. A member of the Class of 1912 at Union, Mr. Patterson ias killed in a tragic airplane crash at Elizabeth, New Jersey, on Janu- ary 22, 1952. In dedicating the new scholarships to his memory, Dr. Davidson called him \one of the great and gallant figures of the times in which we live.\ The Robert Porter Patterson Memorial Scholarships are avail- able to students interested in the Humanities and Social Studies. Applicants who do not receive one of these scholarships will be con- si\l,ered for other scholarships at Union College, over one hundred in number, ranging from $100 to $800 a year. Becoming a Candidate To become a candidate for one of these scholarships, a student must file an application for admis- sion and scholarship by March 1st,. file a copy of his st>condary sehool record, take the Scholastic Apti- tude Test of the College Entrance Examination Board by April 1st, and have a personal interview with the Director of Admissions or with an alumnus designated by the col- lege. Applications may be ob- tained from school guidance offices or from the Director of Admissions at Union College. ---a--- Bill Graves Voices Idol Speculation The first publication date for the Idol, Campus Magazine of general interest, was anl)ounced this week by William Graves, a member of the Idol Editorial Board. In an- swer to the inquiry of when the issue will appear Graves was quoted as answering, \Soon.\ When questioned further, Graves equivo- cated, saying: \Maybe next week- maybe never.\ The Idol, companion publication o~ the Concordiensis, has tradi- tiOnally been the outlet for the ex- . pression bf Union's best in poetry, art, creative writing, features, and hum.or. \Usually the Idol comes out four times a year\ said Graves, \This year three •.. thr.ee big issues ... really big. That's the plan.\ The conseneus is that maybe the maga- zine will arrive before Prom Week- end-maybe not. .. Walter Hoffman, WRUC sta- tion m~aget•, announced 'today that, as part of the Prom Weelr- end schedule, the Satmday night program of dance music will be thrown open to audience participatioJL From 8 :p.m. to 12 p.m. on Satlll'daY., the station will welcome anyone wishing to dedicate a song, or simply to hear his girl's voice on the air, ·

dis- dam state state than not for con- for the ctual per- that dams all flood s na- flood • sole face s, as d l'e· I<~ to obt>It The Editors' Notebook: Six Week Summary Page Two Vol. 81, No. 7 Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., NOVEMBER 6, 1953 Mr. Hammerstrom Answers Pulse beat Columnist Page Three PRICE 10 CENTS HPC .Meets'Frosh Elect Engkvist RUShing November 3, Election Day here1'>' - ______ _ I !Announce A wards As Memorial To R{t L. Patterson at Union as wei las the re~t of the . D dl k countty, saw a record shattering I ea - o-c seventy-three per cent of the fresh- I J rr.a:n class turn out to vote for ' their class officet·s. Theodore ! Ji:ng-kvist was elt>Cted president by Last Wednesday night, the newly organized House Presi- dents' Council, replacement for last vear's Interfratel'- nity Council, held an infor- mal meeting in the IIale House lounge Like the In- terfratel·nity Council, the primary concern of the House P1·esidents' Council is to dis- cuss problems common to all fraternities, as well as to pro- mote a gl'eater interfraternal feeling on campus. Future Rushing l>Ians 'The first, and pNhaps most pressing, issue discussed by the council was next year's rushing policy. As it stands now, the coun- cil is decisively opposcd to the two policies set forth by the adminis- tration in the past two years, namely: full semester deferment of rushing, or immediate rushing during the first twa weeks of school. Gerald Barandes, house prc.,;i- dent of Phi Sigma DPlta, has pro· posed instead a new policy on fra- ternity rushing, namely that \. _ . rushing shall commence on the Sunday following fall ad-interim marks. This period shall run for eleven days until noon of the Wedn~sday before Thanksgiving. The period of silence that will fal- low this rushing period will ex- tend from noon on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving until the fal- lowing Tuesday at 6 P.M.\ After some discussion, the council de- cided that the policy would be most effective if Prom weekend were pushed back to the last week of October, so that rushing would extend over a regular football weekend, instead of conflicting with Prom weekend. A subsequent vote of 12-5 in favor of the Barand<:>s Plan ap- pcar<:>d to satisfy no onP. The HPC had previously decided that a three-fourths vote would pass the proposal. As this arbitrary figure was not reached, a long and futile discussion followed on the merit of setting such a limit. The entire problem was finally postponed until a later date. During the meeting, Harold Ol- sen, president of Sigrna Phi and acting president of the council, read a letter from Dean Huntley urging fraternities to abandon any pledge trip assignments requiring hitch\hiking. The letter stated that such trips tended only to place a pledge in a position of getting seriously injured. The administra- tion's condemnation of pledge tri:ps actively began after Hell Weelt in April, 1951, when three Phi Sigma Delta Pledges were involved in a serious automobile ac~idPnt on the Troy-Schenectady road. SevPral of the council members said that \pledge walks.\ lnstead of long pledge trips, or a Help Week in- stead of the traditiona_! Hell Week, might be worthwhile changes in the present pledge policies. Rules Committee A committee consisting of Har- old Olsen, Michael Ra:basca, Wil- liam Barlow, and Gerald Barandes, had been previously set up to formulate the rules by which the Presidents' Council meetings are to be run. As yet, little headway has been made concerning the question of rules, since the rushing .problem has been the most press- ing issue up to date. The Rules Committee members had decided it would be wiser first to solve the rushing issue, and then, with the able advice of some faculty mem- bers, start work on formulating the rules of procedure. Now, how· ever, due to the deadlock on the rushing problem, it was decided that the rules of procedure were of primary importance. The final item of th.e meeting ~as an announcement by Gerald Barandes concerning the initiating this coming Tuesday night, Novem- ber 9, of a series of fraternity ex- change suppers. Barandes is the originator of the new program . .An (Continued on Page 4) a. plurality of thirty-ni-ne vites. and Daniel Clapp became vic£'-president with twenty-five. There were fif- teen candidates fot· the two offices, and, all together, they attracted two hundred twelve votes. The three-day campaign was characterized by a myriad of post- ers adorning the campus. They covered all of the available wall space in VVt>st ColleFc, and most of that in South College. Also elected was Sidney Mann, with sixty-eight votes out of one hundred ninety-seven cast for secretary. There were four can- didates on the slate for secretary. Due to a mixup, the election of a class treasurer was postponed un- til this Tuesday, when the voting for Student Council representatives will also b<' hdd. Petitions must be turned in to the Student Activi- ties Office by noon, Saturday, No- vember 6. The President, as well as the representatives, will be expected to attend the meetings of the Stu- dent Council. He is also the spokesman for the CI:tss of 1957, in all matters. · The very gratifying turnout for the major elections has led every- one to hope for an even larger percentage of voters for freshman treasurer and Student Council representatives. ---o---- Special Attraction To Highlight Prom A special attraction, in the form of an informal dance on Saturday night, Nov. 14, will highlight the closing of the footbal !season. The dance wil !give special attention to the stars and coaches of the after- noon's game. Music will be fur- nished by Phil Patico's band. The $2.50 prom bid will cover both dances, and a committee under John DeGoeipan will decor- ate the !,')'m in an Air Force motif for both nights. Following last yeaJ·'s precedent, thirteen faculty members will have a chance to pick the Prom Queen. Each one will present a long- stemmed rose to the girl of his choice, and the Queen will be picked from among them. Michael Rabasca is in charge of these ar- rangements. The Prom Committee, headed by William Morris, is advised by Major Milton H. Weiss. Dominick Carbone is in charge of publicity for the weekend. ---0·--- Debaters Split At Novice Tourney In the Novice Tournament, at Hamilton on Oct. 31, Union Col- lege split, winning three out of its six debates. The Affirmative's, John Lott and William Robinson won one of their three debates while the negativesfi Charles En· zer and Carlyle Fisher, took two of their three. Albany State was the big winner with the impressive record of fifteen out of eighteen won. Further debates have been sched- uled; Nov. 11 two teams meet Al- bany and Nov. 16 one mixed team, both Novice and Varsity, debate at R.P.I. The Nov. 5th debate with Saint Rose has been cancelled. Notice to all members of the Concordiensis . _ . There will be a full staff meeting this Monday night, No- vember 9, 1953. This will be lhe most important meeting of the year. The main item on the agenda will be the plans for the Concordiensis Banquet which will be held on November 16, 1953. All Conc{)rdiensis members arc expected to attend. -Concordiensis Photos by Ralph Manies I'i<'tun·d ahO\\l' a-rl' TIH'odor!' l<:ngl;.vi~t and D~tttid Clapp, n .. wly elPC'Wd l'rPsid<•nt and \ i<'<'-l'I'PsidPnt of U11• \la~s of Hliii. --------------------------- Student Council Debates Math Requirement Problem Secondm-y s<:hool graduates a::;pmng to continue their education in the field of liberal mts \\'ill, beginning with the Hl:il-ii:> aeaclemic year, be eligible for four Hobert Portet· Patterson :\Iem()rial Sdwlarships, whkh haYe just been established by l'nion College. ----- - --------- -- i> In annuunctng the nnv progt alii, i Pt·es!dl'nt Cart•·t· Davidson satd, \C ld w I I\Hubert Purt .. r Patte! son i1rmly 0 . a r s : bl'lte\'ed that go\ et nrn~nt , huuld ~ be admintstered by tlll·n uf integ- R l \ M . . - nty and ehat acter, who J>lact·<.l ea .. ayer duty to cuuntty :;.·cond unly to I God. He not only belit:\·ed this: During chapel last Tues-' he jJtactiCt:U it. The Boatel of day, Dr. llerbe1·t C. ::\layer, Tru:;tee,; of the· Hubert Porter Pat- , . · 1 f tl A ,· terson Fund arc ustng the income P:.esH e~t 0 le • meucan fwm the .Ylc•murial Fund to ca.ny \ rewpoml, Inc., dellvered a the ideals of Hubc·rt l'at.tt•rson in- talk on the subject \Defense to the ure or tutme generations in the Cold \iVar.\ Dr. J.\la;yer through the e,;tauli:;hn;ent of tht·se • . . ~eholarshtps for bt oadly cult mal he~Hls an ou.tst~nding c.1t1ze~- undetgraduule study, awarded on ship orgamzatJ()n whrch IS the basi:; of open natwnal cum- now in its thirty-first year. petition to young men.\ The Stuclent Council, the body which helped eliminate He is especially well known Valued. at $-J.ooo apiec~. each Freshman math ren.uirements, discu.ss~:cl that m,\tt\l' ag·, 1 ·n for his leadershi]) among sc_holarshtp covers complde cost • \ '- \' • Uf tU!tlUil, fees, and UOOKS, HI ad- during its last meeting on Tuesday, Xuv. 3. It aded on a yont b groups, and m recent ditton to ::.umc uth. r ~..xpc:n::.~:;. complaint that thi:s year';; sophomore dass has been caught years has Leen active in na- Th.y n•ay b~ <ontinueu U1wu~,;huut in a squeeze as a l'esult of this mathematits policy. tiona! lllUYen1ents to interpret ~he four :years of c\ll\ge, dq·~nd- \' 1 · h A .- mg lat·gel~· upon contmut·d nt·e<.l Other topics brought up at the:!> an\l emp IRSIZe t e mellcan and the academic achievement of meetiqg inclu~ed prom wec-ken~, I th,• odor emanating from Col!Pge icteals and practices. the students. s~veral complamts about some ph)- · Creek. found two possible ex plan- He lucidly b rough\ out the fact A member of the Class of HJl:! SICa! defects on the col!Pgc ationl:i. Professor Smith attnbutes that the cold war is a real war. at Union. :'111. Pattl'lson \\a;; kilkd ~rounds, reports on freshman. (']pc- tht• sn:clls tu the library cesspool. Though thet e is no actual shoot- in a tragic aiqJlane cr:.tsh at ttons, freshmar;--~ophomore ri.valt·y Another vali<.l reason may be a ing wat·fare, a highly combatant Elizabeth, New Jet:;ey, on Jcmu- week, a~d publ!ctty for athll'tl.cs, a ddici.-nc,- in the Scht-nectady stew- campaign of objectives, ideals, and ary :22, 195:!. In deuicatmg tlll· blood dnve, and plans for a T!ppe- age sy,;tc·m. Bat:;amian plans to methods roel's th~ world today. ntew ~chola1shipo to Jus m•·nwry. canoe Conference. seek out further clues. This is war in almost every sense. Dr. Davidson calleu htm \one of The council considered the pre. A committee was appointed to The final blo\· may not be phys· the great and gallant figures of dicamcnt that many sophomor\s see what could be done about the ical, but it shall be mortal. the times in which we Ji\·e.\ now face-the possibility of being many Schent•ctady !Joys who use Our Gr••att·~t \\\papun The Hobert Pot tc-r Patte•! sun dropped out of schrJO!, no mallei the gym, many times to th .. exclu- Reaffirming the recent state- :::O.lemutial Schuhi!:;hips are avail· what their index, if their freshman sion of Cnion men. ments of Vice President Nixon. able to students inh·te,;t• d in the math requirement is not satisfied ----- o --- - Dr. ::>.Iay~r stated that our main Humanities and Sudal Studie~. by the .end of this school yeat·. A \VRlJC Holds Elections. weapons in this battle should be Applicants who do not rcc~i,·e one suggestiOn was made that th<' T T ' ideas, not guns. By taking full of tht•se scholat :;hips will be con- council propose a one-year ex ten· N a1ne Young to ~ e\- Post advantage of our high ideals of \ictert:d fut· other schutat :;hip, at sion on the rrquitetnL'nt to the Stu· The outstanding fl'ature of the individual freed<Jm and dignity, Cniun Culle;,;e. ovct vrw hundtcd in d<•nt Affn.irs and Relations Con'- the \VRCC L'le<:tions held last we would be blasting the enemy number, ranging ft utll $100 lu S800 mittee. Tupsday was the election of Alan at his weakest point-the c.rux of a year. Stephen Holb1 oak teportcd on Young to replace Lin Swet·ingen as til£' entire pro blern. the display contest to be held be- Business manager. Young, a junior. Tuesday night. Dr. :Mayer spoke fore the Hamilton game on prom b a member of Kappa Xu. Otlwrs to an audience of students and weekend. He announced that the n<-wly elected are Davi<.l Ho;;::;o- visitors on the subject, ''I Saw winner':; cup had been otdered, mondo and Fred Gottlieb, who Czechoslovakia. Fall-\ This in· and that sixteen fraternitie.s had haw ndvnn<'cd to the positions of I cludl'd n firBt·hand account of the agreed to make displays. co-chi\f 1 t•cording cngint·ers. steps leading to the Communist The possibility of procuring spe- \\'alter Hoffman, station man., coup, plus a description of the cia! railroad ratps and: or privileges \!-'\~'· hr~e announced that Vi'RL'C coup itself. The usual question for the many girls comtng ftom will not bt oadcast tilt' Hm·t'rford and nns\\'er period was turned New York City for prom \H•el{end fnotbal ]gam<'. clue to la<'k of funds. into a liYel7J.' debate when one of was brought up, but it was agreed ThP Student Ta.;c Committ£'<' f<'lt 1 the visitors prov-ed to have been that it was too late to act upon thnt the project would prove too ' an on-the-spot observer who dis- this proposal in time for the fall c_o_s_t~:y-·. _______________ : _a_g_r_e_e_d_w_·i_t_h_D_r_._M_a_y_e_r_'s_a_n_a_J_y_s_is_. festivities. Holbrook also reported the out- come of Frosh-Soph Rivalry Week. The sophomores took the ping- pong, football, and basketball events, giving them a winning total of 60 points. The freshmen Concordy Announces New Senior Board Promotions amassed 45 points by copping the At a Senior Buarcl meeting of the Concordiensis 1\Ionday chess, checkers, and vollt-yball evening·, major promotion~ were grantee! to Robert Richter, contests. The tug of war, which was rained out, could not be re- Irwin G<'l'tznp:, and Alan Rosenfelct. scheduled because of hour exams Irwin G<'ttzog. who has been a't'-------------- this week. mPmber of the Junior Board as :SPcoming a Candidatp To b•·come a candidate f<Jr one of the:;e scholar,;hip:;, a st ud,-nt ntll$t file an a)>plkatirJn fot adllliti- eion and >'Cholat,hi]• l·y :\!a'<·lt ld, filt 1 a C'Op,Y llf his ~f'CIJnd:u f ,St~hool record, tal<e th·· ~chol\><tic Apti- tudP Tr>st of th•• C'cdl<'n' Entmnrr> Examination noalll by April l\t. and han~ a P\'\on:!l int•·rvi·•w with thP Dirf'ctor of Admb,ions nr with an alumnus d,,,.i,- nat<'d by the C'ni- Jege. Applications may bC' ob- tained from school guidance offices or from the Director of Admissions at Union College. ----0---- Bill Graves Voices Idol Speculation ThP fir~t publir'l-<i<>n clnt(' fot thP Idol. Campus Ma!!r~zine of g<'nerul inter est, was annuunec>d thi~ week by \\'illiam Graves, a member of the Idol Editorial Board. In an- nation of most of the grammatical. Preliminary plans were drawn Exchange Editor sine£' the fall swer to the inquiry of wh<'n the up for the semi-annual TippPcanoc> of 195::!, has been promoted to typographical and spelling misde- issue -will appear Graves was Conference which the council spon- F<'ature Editor. The position of meanors which plagued last year's quoted as answt•ring, \Soon.\ \VhPn sors in the fall. Sunday, Nov. 22, FPature Editor encompasses a editions_ Richter has been, until que:<tioned fut thet·, Grave,; equivo- was chosen as the datP The con- great\r pmtion of thP Concordi- recently, a_ \man behind the cated, saying: \:::0.1a;yhe next wcek- ference is designed to bring the Pnsis' work than the Exchange maybe never.\ The scenes,'' a sort of unsung hero, Student Council togethPr with Editor ha:< done in the past. who has contributed much to the The Idol, companfon publication members of the student body, fac- Pxpansion of thP feature depart- of the Concordit'nsis, has tradi- . paper as pt·oofreader, reporter, ulty, and administration to discuss ment ·with proposPd symposmms tionall\ be£>n the outlPt for the ex- and columnist 1vithout having his ' vital problems. A tentative list of and new columns will place a name appear on the masthead. pression bf Union's bps( in poetry, invitations was drawn up. heaviet' burdPn of responsibility art, creative writing, f<•.atm·es, and Jerome Cohan reported that 300 on Gcrtzog's shoulders. The cap- New Exc-hange D£>partment humor. basketball pro~rams could be able manner in which he has han- \Usually thP Idol comes out four mimeographed for $.85. A dis- dlPd his Exchange Columns in the Alan Rosenfeld, whose merits in times a year\ said Graves. \This cussion followt:'d as to whether past givPs evidPnce of experience the Forr>ign Language Department ~·Par three ... thrPe big i:;suPs ... programs should be distributed for and ability \\'hich qualify him for and knowledge of foreign culturer. really l>ig. That's tht> plan.\ The \Vednesday and Saturday games. his new sPat on the Senior Board. have> eatned him a seat on the, consensus is that mnyb,. the mn.ga· or for Saturday games only. The nwmhcr~ of th£' SPnior Junior Board as Assistant Ex- zinc \\ill an iw bt:fo 1 e Prom \Veek- A survPy committPP, consisting Board and the whole of the Con-~ change Editm, is n relatively new end- maybe not. of Herbert BakPt', Anthony Tar- cordirnsis Staff rPalize the tr£'- mPmber of the Staff. Previously, taglia. and Jt'rome Cohan will in- I mendow; task and responsibility 1 the Exchange columns featured ! 1 __ \\_'_l_t_·_H--f-f----.----- ten·iew the head of a different which face the Copy Editor. They news from th.e American college- _ . a PJ 0 man, VI- Rlf(' Hta- activity each Friday afternoon to I haVt', thPrPfore, decid<'d that thi-s I front, although the Exchange c>di- ~;ont nta:ttagei·, announPPd today discover any pertinent information position deservPs to be included tors corresponded with eleven for- u:J' as ~a~t of the Prom \Vf'f'l{- about that activity. The Rath- in the Senior Board, for it is due eign schools. Plans for future P~~. Sf' P • 111 ~'• tlw Ratur<L:y slwllcr was the first activity intPr- more crl'dit than the Junior Board 1 , <'ditions to include choice tidbits ~~fi: 1 ~ ,P; 1 o~tam of dan<'P ~IUsir vicwed. can give. Rob crt Richter, who from many colleges on the Con- rt' >~ 1 ! own opf'n to audrencP James Brown was appointed has donp a splendid job of copy . tinent and LILtin America necessi- pa l<'lpabon. From 8 p.m •. to head of the blood drive. Jt will reading-chccking and correcting, tate the addition to the staff of a I ~il p.m. on Ratur~ay, th; s.tatwn I probably take place some limP nL'XI i ewry sentence in the Concordi- man with a sound knowledge of 1 1 :! w~JcomP an;\OilP \~slung t<l spmPstcr. 1 cnsis before it finally appears in : these areas. Roscmfeld has re- I ~e< ;a ~ a. s.onf!:, . or snnply ! 0 Albert Barsamian, investigating print-is the reason fot• the elimi- 1 turned this falJ from Mexico. eaJ bts gll'l s ''Ot<'P on 11tE' an•,

2 <!lnurnr Member Associated Col· leglate Press and .ilstrl butor of the Collegiat~ Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Ad vertlsing Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every F'rlday of the school year. SENIOR Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Oftice, 'l'he Ga- zette Press, 834 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post O!flce as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription 10c a copy ; $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. BOARD HERBERT L. SPIRA '54 ....... 3-86:.0................. Editor-in-Chi!l! GARY H. KAT'.l '55 ............. 2-3611. .............. Associate Editor MAHTIN HAU~Eit '55 ......•.•. 6-~510 ••••.••••••••••..• Sports Editor ROBERT CHAHTOI-'F '55 ....... 2-3611. .............. Managing Editor PE:TE!t T. AllLI·:lt '55 ......... ~-~:,{0,. ................. News Editor ROBERT BECK '54 .............. 2-3611. ............ Business Manager JACK J. WUUL!o' '55 ............ 2-3611 ........... Circulation Manager iR\\'1:-.: l1EH1'ZUG '54 ......... -~-3611 ................ Feature EdHor MARVIN BORIS '55 ............. 6-9969 ........... Photog-raphy Editor ROBERT RlCHI'Eit '54 ................................... Copy Editor JUNIO-R BOARD JOSEPH HOLLINGER '56 ....•..•...• Assistant Circulation Manager PAUL GILBERT '04 ................................. Exchange Editor HUUBR .MBHRILL '55 ••..••••..••••....••.••.• Assistant Sports Editor ROBERT SWART '54 ........................................ Art Editor GEORGE SOF'FIN '55 ....................... Assistant Feature Editor ALAN ROSENFELD '54 • . . . • . . . • • . • . . . • • . Associate Exchange Editor REPORTERS Noah Barley, Hans Groot, Arthur Fabricant, Norman Bartner, Richard Propp, Richard .Slutsker, David Fink, Hart Kivett, Joel Gitlin, Alan Young, ;o.;orman Scull, William Hancol'k, Reui.Jen Schwartz, Avrom Gold, Leslie Bernstein, Ralph ~lanies, Ste,·en Lewis, Philip Schaefer, Joseph Martorano, Hobert Tofel, Benjamin Sadok, Fred Gottlieb, Charles Spier·s, ~laUt·ire Sili.Jer, David Berry, Martin Zimmerman. BUSINESS ISTA..FF Alfred :-.:-adel, Stanley Forwand, Arthur Brenner, Arthur Feldman, James S!Jero, Freueric Gro~se, llobert Lewis, Alan Greene. CIRCUL.A.TION ST.A.FF Harold Patterson, Carl Mindell, Ilichard Shaver, Roger Harvey. The Shaft FRESHMEN REPORTERS Steven Knafel, Joel Plattner, Wllliam Sisson, Calvin Knickerbocker, ] Edward Kloos, Jerome Goldstein, Albert Salvato, John Sein, Alan Schechter, Landlslau Berka, Alan Schiffman, Simon Stertzer, Alan ;;::~~:'~~~t::::~~:~~:k sw ~ .. feel ~\'~!~~~~~~\~k~rt;o,:~~dihf: 1 ~e~:IT.f~kt~~ckd~~;: ~ our runnmg- start mto the 1953-54 colleg-e year. Gaudeamus lgitur Amert'cans admt're ruggedByt\nNd 0 t'-nn Scull these possible modes of action, September 25: We put in a plug for the Gaudeamus vidualists. Since the founding of what did he do to get the Demo- the interational student song which dates back to the founda- our country, when the frontier so- crats elected? He attacked every- tion of the earliest universities, 600 to 800 years ago. ciety demanded independence of thing the Republicans said, with You m ay now hear the tune bein!:r played at any Tues- action, we have extolled the per- little interest in whether his at- ~ son who would stand up and fight tacks had foundation or nof. He day chapel, and the words may be found in the first issue for his rights. The time for in- brought up a phony water meter if you don't know them already. dividualism in politics has passed. issue, claiming that the Repub- We hope the words are sufficiently well learned by Our governmental machinery can licans were brewing some deep · h G d f' h' only work when the political par- plot to install water meters at a Founders Day to giVe t e au eamus a 1t launc mg at ties will allow it to. Think of the large cost to the taxpayer. So, Union. Senate with ninety-six men, each naturally, the Republlcans could The Challenge October 2: We challenged the administration to set forth their program of improvement for this year. Presi- dent Davidson did so in an eight point plan which we shall be calling to his attention from time to time. upholding his own views. Progress point to his irresponsible, state- would be at a standstill. It is only ments, which they did, and label it through the political party with a the sum of the Democratic think- coordinated platform of action that ing. Unfortunately, for the advo- we can expect the smooth func- cates of the two party system, a tioning of our government. responsible two party system, Sam Independent politicians are also was endorsed in a Democratic Pri- L'p to now, we have been waiting for indications crete progress. of con- obsolete at the local level. As mary. many of you might have guessed, Perhaps even more unfortun- I am going to talk about Sam ately, Sam was elected, The ques- Stratton, a pseudo-Democrat. For tion is posed: Is it more de- Fraternity Rushing October 9: We advocated a major alteration in this year's impractical rushing system, with equal consideration given to the Houses and the Freshmen, and to the social, financial, and academic points of view. We are highly gratified to see that the newly formed House Presidents' Council has agreed upon a constructive alternative. If they can now agree on some rules for their organization the proposal may be sent to the administration. The Orange Squeeze October 2 and 9: We took the lead in expressing stu- dent dissatisfaction at West College's prices and practices. The administration responded by authorizing .the fac- ulty-student Study Committee, which has been at work for two weks. By next week this committee will have its report on the President's desk. We will allow a reasonable length of time for action to be taken upon the recommendations, before it becomes our duty to put the highly revealing facts and figures before the student body. Little Ivy League . October 30: We took the initiative in suggesting forma- tion of a small college conference among universities in the \Union League\ both athletically and academically. At press time, we have the following developments to report: A story filed with the Associated Press was en- thusiastically received; Arthur Daley, sports columnist of the New Y ~rk Times telephoned the college to express his support of the Idea; and a local newspaper has given the League a hearty boost. . The crucial period for the League will be next week when we receive the reactions of the member schools. ' -The Editors LETTER TO THE EDITOR Dear Editors; There have been many COp-1- plaints brought to the administra- tion about students and others bringing bottles and jugs and buc- kets of beer and other beverages into the grandstands during the football games. This is in direct violation of the rules of the Trus- tees of the College, which provide that beer may be served on the Union campus under only two cir- cumstances: first, at the Raths- keller; second, at fraternity or other group parties definitely auth- orized by the Dean of the College. Football stands do not come into either of these cat~gories, and \-- therefore the Trustees~ prohibition applies. We have, therefore, re- quested the police and others at the entrances to the football field not to allow such containers to be carried into the stands or even through the gate. Those who in- sist tlpon coffee will find it served at the refreshment stand behind the grandstand. I expect the co- operation of every Union student and alumnus in the enforcement of this sensible regulation. Sincerely y<mrs, CARTER DAViDSON, President those of you who don't know Sam, sirable to have Stratton with his let me tell you about .him. Sam statements or no Democratic rep- is a great guy. Always smiling, he resentation at all? I am inclined has a projecting personality. He to the latter choice. Many of my is one of these peop;e whom you acquaintances were faced with the can't help but like, unless, like me, same decision. Some felt that any you are interested in the future of Democrat is better than a Repub- a strong Democratic Party in lican, since he will call the latter Schenectady, or unless you are one to task. Will the people listen to of the Republicans in city gov- criticisms of a known publicity ernment. seeker? What we need are Demo- Now allow me to tell you why crats who back an intelligent pro- gram of action-Democrats who Sam is a pseudo-Democrat. He is feel responsible to the people to an enrolled Democrat, but he .is carry out a specific platform, more interested in his own polit- Democrats who have a forceful, ical ambition.s than ·that of the energetic County Chairman. Strat- party. He showed this by his se- ton must go, as must ail inde- lection of issues in the past cam- pendants. paign. As we have seen by the Good government begins at the elections in New Jersey, New York local level. We must begin in the City, and Wisconsin, Democrats wards to make our voice felt. We are reviving from their 1952 defeat. must make the political parties re- Local Democrats should have stood sponsible to the people. so that we with their brethren in attacking will know what a Democrat or Re, the record of the Republicans in publican will do when -elected. Congress. Sam could have talked Engla.!id is a shining example of about the Moore Formula for ad- party responsibility. Even the ministering state aid to the cities, minority is disciplined. The voters and showed how the Republican do not vote on the basis of person- State legislature has given Sche- ality, but on the basis of a plat- nectady \the works\ by cutting its form which they know will be car- state aid in endeavoring, to help ried out. This should be our goal. the rural Republican areas. Let the Schenectady Democrats Now, Schenectady is a politi- take notice. Irresponsibility and cal paradox, a Republican-con- individuality must be submerged trolled city, with a large labor vote. in the int!lrests of effective action. He could have conducted an intelli- We are not asking for a bunch of gent campaign, a campaign which robots. We want capable men, but would have begun rebuilding for men who will be guided by known the 1956 elections. In contrast to programs of action. Campus Cullings An eighth grade English lesson produced these bright observations, and, thanks to the \Tempo\ of Chicago Teachers College, they were preserved. \An active verb shows action, a passivle verb shows passion.\ \A metaphor is a thing you shout through.\ \The future of 'I give' is 'you take'.\ \The feminine of bachelor is lady-in-waiting.\ \The passive of 'John shot my qog' is 'My dog shot John'.\ The following commandments were drawn up by the University of California in an effort to aid freshmen on the road to upper- class s~cyoir-faire. \No high school paraphernalia will be tolerated and thou shalt not bluster ostentatiously about childhood achievements.\ \Thou shalt not pose as big man on campus.\ \Thou shalt learn that saddles, Levis and such do not constitute the proper full dress and should be worn only to brawls.\ Freshmen hazing still pervades the campus life of many of the New England Colleges Bowdoin Orient: A studeni; at Syracuse University entered a mystery song contest not long ago. A few days later, he re- ceived a letter from the local radio station telling him that he'd won a perman·ent wave-good anytime.\ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6. 1953 On Pre-Med Education By Stephen J. Lewis Last week, the AssociaWm of American Medical Schools released a survey report of a three-year in- vestigation lnto pre-medical ·educa- tion. Among other conclusions the report stressed the need to liberal- ize specific Pre-mcdicacl Education, and include more general education courses in the Pre-Med program. Actually, .the results of the in- vestigation were only affirmations of a gr·owing feeling in our cotmtry during the .past twenty years. Too many of our doctors have .gradu- ated from college with only a .nar- row, almost techhoiogical, educa- tion in the .sciences. Medicine will always· be a con- stant~ flux between science and humanity. The narrowly edu• cated student of today can become the narrow-minded doctor and in- competent citizen of tomorrow. Though we do not have to '·fear gvea,tly the extremes, we certainly should not encourage their realiza- tion. To my inind, the primary .pur- pose for a pre-med is college course is to obtain an education. After graduation from .college, the would- be ·doctor spends· an ever-increas- ing amount of time and interest in the sciences. Why, then, during the four free, .precious, years be- tween the mental immaturity of high school and a highly specific medical education, should the Union student spend more than half his time on science courses when only four are required for Medical School admission? During his stay at college, the pre-medical student should be en- couraged to :ffollow his own bent. He should become increasingly aware of the non-scientific mech- anics ,of the world, and of the many facets of humanity. If he passionately craves a course ·in comparative anatomy, let him take it, but it is wrong to force the student who believes hi§ time can be better utilized in another field into this type of science. Encour- age him to think, not to memori2e. If he be immature vihen he first comes to college, and is only cap- able of following advice, he will be graduated from college just as im- Chinese-American Food mature as when he entered. He will still be i'ncapable of an orig- inal thought or d'ecision. Allowed the freedom of choice, he stands at least a sma!I chance of learning empirically and developing a .sin- cere interest without the feeling of compulsion. More than anywhere else, the evHs of a pre-medical. course show their sores at a small coHege such as Union. All the pre-med.s know each other well. They should, .for they see each other's faces. in vari- ous cla.stics for four years. Many have been inculca;ted with a sense of values \\hich rates their own achievement on'ly on the lack of achievement of their felolws. Their position encourages them to re- joice when their friends flunk. Marl;:s, rather than knowledge be- come the goal, and the most 'Op- portunistic of the bunch becomes the cleverest. If a fellow was nerv.ous when he entered college, he stands a good .chance of gradu- ating a hel:!-rty neurotic. The pro- fessors .quickly become .but im- mages. of bu2zards scraping ·out one rat after another from the race, or at least deciding which one can run -the fastest. 'This com- pletely compul..sive, t!1,Ilse, and false attitude need not ·exist. First of all, the college need not differentiate between pre-medical and liberal arts students. During the last two years, a pr,e-med ad- visti-ng system should be retained. The indiviciual students should be encouraged to choose their own courses and to p'ecide when and how they wish to coordinate their required sciences with the rest of their curriculum. Courses such as quantitative analysis and com- parative anatomy should be cut to one semester's duration, so tha:t students can taste the discipline and precise techniques of medicine in the minimum of time. These half-year science courses are pre- valent and highly succesful in many colleges, Harvard and Yale for example. Little more than the above need be done, and .by effect- ing such a program, the undergrad- uate college gives to the potential doctor an opportunity for a real education. COCKTAIL BAR I ~ 135 Broadway Just off State Street J * ·---··----~-----··· TUXEDOS 'FOR HIRE • Ball's Men's Shop Two Entrances: 635 State St. 222 Nott Terrace Tel. 6-0070 .-~-~---------------~~, • • 1 For Car Trouble See a l t Union Man I ' . ',·. I. ; William H. Plath AUTO SERVICE 1 Scheenctady 6-4895 ! I J 1601 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. J L-----~---------------1 (·NOW LITTLE LOST BOY Bing Crosby, a boy, and a calico dog. THE FIGHTING LAWMAN· Starring Wayne Morris (independent) THE ALL AMERICAN and THE GOLDEN BLADE New\ DR. (Bud) JEKYLL and MR. (Lou] HYDE with Abbott and Costello THE STAND AT APACHE RIVER ATM. B. GRAUBART &SONS We Repair ••• Your WATCHES Your JEWELRY • Your SILVERWARE Utmost care is taken by skilled workers .to give y~u every reason to be pleased. -Watches and clocks cleaned and repaired -New watch cases and bands -New watch crystals ioserted -Pearls and beads restrung -Jewelry and silver replated and repaired .. ) FRIDAl L I Tl Editor O! Deat• Ed The 0 featurell Roger ll 1. because i than an;y page. Since ·eolumili. 1:· and my L ball, I f€ ! · letter so Concord;y :·.·,what he : · I regardin! . { ( t Mr. lifE ! : ; eoaehes 1 I ,\ pl.aining 1 t teams ho :;, dents wE .·· are intel' '!half ovei 'I · Facts: · l sned for I :i try out -~ two call! 1,, ~ held pri< : 0: practice. ! j filled out f :; Eight (8 . r, for a prll ' I of the sp ; had, fall< · . ' candidatt •.'',f EveryonE when ex; i' 1 transfers ' · ., vited. all ; j three (-3: i l be capa.b i \ ball. Th ! : .j thirty-tw. fjthecaRl I .J tice on ~ i M1·. lif4 w~mder I out for fall if tl starting. the previ · ·; Facts: ll spring w: i ! pads) an ;_··.l day for 1 days peJ I l coach pi• '·. that kin( ,,r· !. footban Lacrosse, 1 and Gol l thing fo1 1 those s,p1 i of SlUing 1. and Joe 1 oonsiderE 1 .' ' ing good because l tice in t : , · first defE I I I game Oll gan, I d .pert and anything Yet you nating il Guerra ll a. fine jo that I stringers themselv Klingber bruno, 1\ Mr. :M Len llliJ the Willi utes lef1 ma.gnific the gamt Iege,fGot ant,'-WE berg cou jured an Facts: bOO a moved, and wex whic.h h The iJ players win .gan our veteJ on any~ sent, wil I'm surt player i.I tor's pet taken pl: nounced docto1•. unless tl at least: who ha< s Editor's Football is in a.1 made bl Rqger ] column 1 ensis SJ pt·esentiJ tt·oversy answer page, ' student, commen issue,

1953 He orig- at arning a .sin- of e, the show e such know ld, .for vari- Many sense r own of Their to re- flunk. be- ·op- was gradu- pro- im- ·ou:t m the which com- d false not ad- be r own and their of such com- cut to o tha:t edicine These pre- in Yale the effect- a real FRIDAY, NOVEMBER ~. 1953 LETTER TO THE EDITOR November 4, 1953 Garnet Loses; To F_ace Haverford Thi.s Week Editor of the Concordiensis The Union College football team travels to Haverford, Dear Editor: Pa., this weekend to play Haverford at 2:00 Saturday after- The Concordiensis of last week. noon. The Fords didn't play last week, and have a 1-3 l'ec- ~:;::e!IM~~~ :;;Is~}::~~f, ord so far this season. They haven't iooked strong in any because it was awar•ded mo1·e space of their games, but have a very fast-team, and have showed than any other item on the Sports the ability to break loose at any moment. The Garnet has page. . b t been improving steadily, and is heavily favored to wm, · u Since three .statements in that column are diJ!ectly aimed at me and my conduct of varsity foot- ban I feel compelled to write this ~ ·' le~1· so that Mr .. MerriU, and· the· . Concordy readei'S who may believe :· ·.: what he writes,. will have the facts '. · ~ regarding these thxee statements. :1 j Mr. Merrill writes \I suspect that ,. : ; coailhes would llave .to do 'less com- A plaining about the sire of then: , i teams here at Union if the stu- .•. ;, dents were told fltat the coaches . are inte1•ested· before the season is' J half over.\ , l Facts: Each spring a call is is- .j sued for ALl. students wisbing to I J.; try out for football: Last spring · two ca.lls and two meetings were I'· i held prior to our informal spring. :. ·~~ .practice. Fifty-three (53) stude~~ ! 1 filled out cards (I still have them). :: Eight (8) of these never reported '), for a practice session. By the end ·' I of the spring, the list of candidates ; had, fallen to forty-two (42)~no : , .: candidates being Cllt >by the coach. Everyone kn()WS what happened ·. : when exams were over ~ fhmks, i· 1 transfers, ineligibles, etc. I in- .. , vited all of the :remaining, except j th:ree ('3) whom I felt would not 1 be capable of playing. varsity foot- i . · \ ball. Tile result was that only ! . i thirty-two (32) candidates accepted f·: ·l the call and repo:rted :f.or fall prac- 1 .J tice on September 3rd, 1953. ' 1 Mr. Merrill writes furthe1• - \I w~mder . how many men would go out for tile football team in the fall if they didn't think tlla.t the starting lineup had been sewed up the previous spring.\ · -, Facts: Our spring practice last \ ~ d ted h rt (' t·· , spring ·was con uc ;in s o s no i ! pads) and lasted one half hour .per ' ' day for each candidate, four (4) 1 • \ days per weel•. How could any I f coach pick a sta:rting lineup from : '!~.·,· that kind of work? Over ha.lf the football candidates were playing , ., Lacrosse, Baseball, Tra,cl•, Tennis 1 ' and Golf -- which is the proper l thing for them to d() if they like 1· those sports. In 1952, on the basis i of s~I·ing practice, Sam Armstrong 1. and Joe Wilkinson were not even considered by the coaches, as be- ing good enough tD help us. Yet,· because of their showing in prac- tice in the fall, they were on the first defensive team from our third the game should be a close one, and any over-confidence on the part of the Hammerstrom men could make for another &f the upsets which have been so prevalent in the Potted Ivy League this season . In last week's game, the Garnet~·~· ----~--~-------------------- looked· stronger than it has at any ~IIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!: time this season. ·Union led WH• : = = Iiams 20-7 at half, and it appeared § Pulse beat .~ as -if the Ephmen's .strength in re- : : serves, as· compared to Unio11's ~ hy § woefully weak team on that score,. § Roger Merrill [§ was the only rea.son that we didn't · - - win the game easilY'. · i'llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll r; As it was, it was a tough one· :J;i'irst, I'd like to thank Mr. Ham- llll the way and was a hard defeat merstrom for his interest as for Union to take. Giambruno, showed by his letter. However, I have a few comments to make on plunged over for one score, and: the letter. . First, my statement Klingberg and Speidel took Reed: about coaches at Union and their touchdown passes in the first half.: complaints about the size of the It looked as if the Garnet was, teams was not aimed at Mr. Ham- merstvom. I was talldng about a going to have an easy day. Wil- general situation, and used foot- liams' only score in the first half . ball as an example. My question was a 92 yard kicltoff return, and ·about how many men would try Union wa.s having very little trou-. out for football in the fall if they didn't think the team was all ble either on offense or defense. sewed up was, again, not meant to Union Tires be a dig at our football coach. I was noting tl\e fact that there is However, the Ephmen got no call for players in the fall, and stronger in the second half while· students get the impression that the Garnet tired, and our lack of everything is all settled . I neither reserves has never been so horri- said nor believe that Mr. Hammer- bly obvious. We just didn't have strom has his mind made up be- the stamina to go a full sixty min- fore Fall practice begins: utes against a team as strong as. Williams, ana, for that reason, we My statement about IDingberg lost when Williams came up with and last yeal\s Williams game was three second half touchdowns. a criticism of the \do or die spil'it that now reigns in college sports\ The loss lowered the Garnet to and I did not say that injured foot- last place in the Potted Ivy stand-· l;)all p'layers were made to continue ings, because R.P.I. tied Worces- pl:cy after they are hurt. I said ter Poly last weekend to move out that, in view of the fact that of a last place tie with us. Haver- Klingberg· had been injured, 11e ford, with a 1-3 record, is just· was far more likely than before above us, and we could move to be hurt badly the next tim~. I ahead of them with a victory this have no doubt whatever that Len week. If we should win both this was examined <Jarefully before he game and next week's tilt with went baclt into tllo game, but .. I Hamilton, we could finish ahead think that, regardless of the fa.ct of R.P.I. and Hamilton as well as that he llad not been 'hm·t badly Haverford, but that's for the fu- at that time, he ~hould not have ture, and the main objective is to· played any more 11hat day. Also, win this one, the fact that he was sent in \on:ly Reed, Giambruno Stal' to pass\ does not mean. t:hat Wil- liams was a.ware of tile flllCt. In last week's game, Reed and. Finally, :Ed like to say once again Giambruno were outstanding. Reed that I was, in no way, criticizing lead the team all day, and did the ·Mr. Hammerstrom's ability as a best job he has done all year, coach. I was commenting on a while Giambruno played his usual situation which' exists a) at Union brilliant defensive game and also College in general, and b) in col- shone on offense. lege sports in general. My interest Booters:Lose In Overtime in football and the fact that I am a student here led me to use the examples I did, but I was not say- ing that Mr. Hammerstrom is doing a poor job as coach. 'Quite the contrary. I don't know what we'd do without him. On The Sidelines· By Martin Hauser Nothing Important Did'ja know Dept: Did'ja know that back around 1920 a Concordy sports editor was bemoaning the fact that during · t he basketball season we man- . aged to defeat 'unly\ B r o II' n. ale, H a r v a r d n d Princeton .. ? Did'ja know that over the last :ross - country and three . only one loss, giving Coach B11l Ketz .one of the finest records in the country ... ? Did'ja know that before Ray Mullane came to Union the school had not turned out a winning swimming team in over twenty years? Ray's overall record at Union is a terrific 29-8 . . . Did'ja know thai: Union footbal !teams regularly used to play such teams as NYU and Co- lumbia and hold their share of . wins in these series , . . ? Did'ja know that Union's three unde- feated football seasons is one of the best marks in the Little Ivy League . . . ? Did'ja know tQ.at a Union football team once ran up over 90 points in a win over Syra- cuse, and once lost to Williams team by 112-0? Request of the Week Dept:-- Intramural sports hold a high place in campus interest, and fra- ternity competition for the intra- mural cup is terrific. Tile one and only glipe we have against an otherwise excellent intramlll'al sys- tem is that standings d() not come out until the end of the year, if at all. We think it would be a good idea to have the standings issued after every set of sports-- for instance, after tile completion of football and tennis. We's be mighty beoldin' to you, Art. Gripe of the Week Dept:-The adrniinstration still has not answered the request we made last week for some explanation of the fact that construction of the fieldhouse has not begun. We think the student body deserves an explanation, and we intend to keep up this campaign until we get an answer. ----0--- KN Meets DUD PsiU Winner in Finals Kappa Nu will meet the winner of the Delta Upsilon-Psi Upsilon tennis match fo!\ the all-college intramural championship. D.U. and Psi U. met yesterday after a one day postponement, ·but the scores of the match were too late fol\ this issue. The K.N. house has already de- feated Chi Psi and Delta Phi in theil\ bid for the championship, and is now in the finals. Alpha Delta Phi and Delta Chi wel\e Union 25 -- Haverford 6 • .. Len KlingbPrg break-. ltlOSI' fo1· a long gain in last y .. ar's tilt with HavPrford. Tomonow the Garnet travels to Hayer.ford in quest of its secund win of the year . ---------------- Ketzmen Win Over Midds, Gain Second Victory, 26-31 With Don Stack, Elliot Schecter, and Al McKinnon finishing one-two-three, Union's varsity cross-country squad gained its second victory in thre outings last Friday after- noon at Schenectady. The harriers ouh·aiJ. a powerful Mid- dlebury club to win by a score of 26-31. It was the Panthers' second loss in five meets. Stack, unbeaten this year, ran<$>---------------------------- his usual superlative race, as did St k T k J}} Schecter, in bis third consecutive ac a en ; second place finish, while McKin- u • 0 f NYSS non, improving with every meet, nion ut 0 turned in his best performance of the season_ The Garnet's scor- ing was rounded out by Les So- bin, who finished eighth, and Fran Magliato, who came in twelfth. As at RPI, two weeks ago, . Un- ion had the meet clinched by their first four finishers, but needed a fifth man coming in to qualify for the victory. Again, it was Mag- liato, only recently recovered from an injury, who came gamely home to insure the win. The fact that Union has only five men running points up the fact that the har- rier ranks are still extremely thin. One Meet Left The Dutchmen have one dual meet remaining, a home encounter with Hamilton ·on the 24th of this month. The squad is also to par- ticipate in the N.Y.S. Small Col- lege Championships this Satur- day, and .Coach Ketz intends to send two or three men to the ICAAAA meet on November 1G. Last year, Union, running with- out the services of the gteat Dick Dolan, still took second in the NYS and should place high again, with Stack rated an outside shot at first. The ICAAAA champion- ships will see Union running against the top schools in the country, and chances for any sort of high finish are, of course, slim. A last minute change due to the possible illness of ace harrier Don Stack will find Union scratch- ed from the New York State Small College Cross-Count!:~ Champion- ships this Saturday. It is believed that Stack is suffering from mono- nucleosis, a debilitating, though not dangerous, disease of the circula- tory system. Five Men Left Captain Stack's illness leaves the Garnet with only five available runners, one of whom, Frank Mag- liato, is out with an injury. The Hamilton meet scheduled for No- vember 14, at Union, will be run in any event, though Union's chances for a win have now been aln:ost halved. The Dutchmen will also main- tain their entry in the ICAAAA Championships in New York City on November 16. If Stack is un- able to compete, Coach Ketz will still take Schecter and McKinnon, his number two and three men, to the national meet. ----0---- Ticket Sale Heavy For Hamilton Tiff game on. Before this season be- gan, I did not think Dick Schap. .pert and Dave Gregory would be anytlling more than tWrd stringers. Yet you will n{)tiee they are alter- nating in their positions with Joe Guerra and Dicit Havill, and d{)ing a fine job, Does Mr. Mer1ill think that I shouldn't count as first stringers those who have proven themselves the previous seasons ~ Klingberg, Reed, Wodarzak, Giam- bruno, Medei, Bloomfield, etc? Syracuse needed a double over- time to beat the spirited Union team, 4-3, last Satuvday as Hallie Osborg and George Pasqual scored in the first quarter, giving the Garnet a 2-0 lead.. In the second quarter, the Orange scored three goals. Jimmy Clark then scored for Union, eying up the game with only a minute and twenty seconds. to go. Syracuse scored in a double overtime to win. r--------------...-- 1 ·knocked off by D.U. in their march to the semi-finals, as were Sigma Chi and Beta Eta Upsilon, by the Psi U. team. This · semi-final match should prove exciting, since the Psi U's are pointing for the title; and the D.U.'s hope to add The freshmen team ran in a quadrangular meet at Coblesldll on Wednesday, sending only four men, mainly for the experience to be gained from competition. The squad is still handicapped by the loss of John Parillo, who has been out with a serious virus in- fection. Union students are urged to pick up their ticl£ets fol' the Hamilton football game at tile earliest pos- sible moment, All ticl£ets must be picked up by five p. m. on Wed- nesday. The ticket sale has been very brisl• so far, and a sell-out is Mr. Merrill writes, \At Union, Len Klingberg hobbled back into the Wi.llia.ms game with two min- utes left last year and threw a magnificent ·touchdown pass to win the game. Well for nzy money, col- lege footbl!!U jQs~ i.sn't that import- ant.'- We won the game, but IDing- berg could have been seriously in- jured and it just isn't worth it.\ Entries for ·intra-mural bas- ketball and volleyball must be in Art Lawrence's office not later than next Tuesday, No- vember 10, at noon. Independent' teams must sub~ mit rosters. to their overall total as they try more exciting, for two of the to repeat last year's accomplish- school's best teams will be out ment bf winning the all-school in-~ there trying to win. Corne to see tramural crown. the match; you!\ time will be well The final match should be even spent. a. distinct possibility. Empire marl£ets ba,·e purchased 1100 ticltets, and arB giving them in pairs to customers buying ove1· twenty dollars worth of products. D1•, Davids<Jn als() stirred up a grP.a.t deal of interest in tile game when he addresspd the 1700 mem.- bei's of the local Chamber of ·Com- merce on the coming contest. I I I ) ' ~ac~=sp~er~e~a:~~ 1J.h~;~~~~e:~~:o~:~~or'!r!: nt~: Tr;nt·ty-Amhe·rst HobartmAlfred Headline moved, examined by Dr. Arony, best shoWing of the year. Syra- II ' · ~~c:~: :d. ONLY TO PASS - ~~!~s~~p~rly favored and was ·Crucial Contests in Little Ivy League Play L G. BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES- RINGS- FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFI'S STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - Ji.EYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call The implication is that I use Eric Gansmueller was replaced players who are injm•ed just to · by Halile Osborg in the starting win .games. Dr. Arony, Ed Fitz, line-up. Injuries caused two gaps our veteran trainer, and any player in the Garnet line: Wolfensohn on any of my squads, past or pre- and Sommervilel, the two wing sent, will argue that one for me, men, were unable to play. Wolfen- I'm sure. I have never sent a sohn suffered a concussion in prac- player into a game without a doc- tice, and Somervifle sprained an tor's pei'lni.ssion, and I luwe often ankle. ' taken players out even th{)ugh pro- The freshman team held the re- nounced OKAY by the trainer or serve team of the Schenectady docto1•, Nobody would know Jhat Football Association to a 1-1 tie unless they were with the squad or in an exhibition game Sunday. The at least got the facts from someone Association team had previously who had the facts. been ·unbeaten and untied. The exhibition game matching the Sincerely yours, Union varsity and the Schenectady Samuel C. Hammerstrom, Football Association first team on Football Coacll Tuesday was cancelled by the Editor's note: This letter by Head Football Coach Sam Hammerstrom is in answer to certain remarks made by Assistant Sport's Editor Roger Merrill in his ''l'ulsebea.t\ column last week. In tlie Concordi- ensis spirit of fair play we are presenting both sides of the c_ox:-- troversy by pl'inting Mr. Merrills answer on another part of the page, We would appreciate any student, faculty or administration comments apropos to the points at issue, S.F.A. The frosh team this year is shaping up well, as is apparent fl\om their good showing in Sun- day's game. Some of the outstand- ing players on the freshman team are Steve Gluck, halfback; Mike Masin, fullback; John Davi.s, line; and Howie Rosenkrantz, line, They will fill ~n ~E)atiy on the varsity team nex:t year. Union faces a strong Hamilton team tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. on Daley Field. The competition in the Little I.,vy League enters its crucial last two weeks this Sat- urday, with several important games on tap. Last weel~'s play was marked by one major upset, Coast Guard's stunning 25-14 win over previo,usly unbeaten Trinity, which knocked the Bantams out of their first ,place slot. The big game of the weekend <i·~· -------,------------------------------------------------------ CARL SORENSEN sends Amherst, the league leaders means little if anything, and up- with a 5-0-1 mark and a 13-0 win sets are the rule rather than the over a powerful Tufts last Satur- exception. Hobart, with a win to- day, against the revenge-seeking morrow, could back into the title, Trinity team. Trinity's 4-1 mark as the \Little Three\ knock each is now in fourth place in the other out of contention. Even league. Second place Hobart, 5-1, Bowdoin still has a shot at the ends its season with a non-league championship, tilt against a very strong Alfred team, which also boasts five wins in six outings. Hobart racked up Hamilton, 19-0, last week. Wil- liams, in third place with 4-1-1, faces upset-minded Wesleyan, 2-2-2, who hold a 20-20 tie with Amherst, and who last Saturday topped Swarthmore, 27-13. Bowdoin, fifth with 4-2, ends i.ts season in another non-league game against Maine. In its last outing, Bowdoin topped B!).tes, 38-13. In other games· this week, Roch- ester, with a 25-12 win over Ober- lin and a 3-3 record, faces Hamil- ton, 2-3. Tufts, 3-3, closes out with Massachusetts in its bid to remain in the first division and possibly take sixth place. Swarthmore, 2-2, ie at Johns Hopkins for a tradi- tional battle. RPI, which heads the tail-enders with 1-4-1, faces a tough assign- ment against Coast Guard. Mid- dlebury, 1-5, is underdog to Ver- mont, and Union, 1-5, travels to Haverford, 1-3. The league battle should be tight prediction is Amherst, losing - a game, but still winning the title 1 as Hobart bows to Alfred. 80 :t\{urray Ave., Waterlord, N.Y. PHONE TROY ~ADAMS 8-2528 Special Prices on Corsages For the PROM _ • Orchids 4t Gardenias • Roses • Cymbidiums o Carnations • Fall Flowers .Your Downtown florist THE GALLO FlORIST Cor. JAY and LIBERTY Opp. Post Office ORDER BY PHONE -CALL 6-4487 The following week should see the champ crowned as Williams faces Amherst and Trinity goes against Wesleyan. AU of these are traditional games, in Which form down to the last game. and our 1 !:=============================::::::::::!.1

F~IDAY. NOVEMB.ER 6, 1'953 4 Professor Riese Admires OGS Open To State of Union Report Union ·Community .Sn., irit ·co· liege Men rrhe newest addition to the faculty of u!:n is Professor. Due to a recent change in the 111a rk· . s -ve· a· r 's p· ·...-o· g· . -wons· s· ' Teut Riese, the exchange professor from the University of pNraovcye~.ssiongffl'rceegur claatniodnl_dsaftoerPtrho~rua.m.s .• 1J'.1 t ' . ' ' ~ t ' I I ' I ~ ' . ' . Freibourg. He is taking the position of Pmfessor of the ~ in the department of English, and his special field of interest college seniors may now apply as President Garter l)avidson of Union College ranked Frank Bailey with Enpha1et N ott is American literature. ear.ty as 6 months before gradu- as \one of the two most influential figures in the building· of Union Col'lege\ in his an- ation. This means that mid-year h 1 b h d Although at Union only two0 graduates are eligible to apply nual report for 1952--53, \State of Union,\ W ich has recent Y been pu lis e .. weeks. he h:ts noticed some gr<'at now, while ·applications of J.une diff<'I'Pn<'> s hd \\'('('0 Union nnd B w· . h g-raduates can be accepted as early Bailey's Death Ends E~ ., d I R . . th h t Y ' . om· . '.a,nd .the alumni ·have been lesscne . CVleWHi:g . e ot · er even.s Of Freibourr. FrPibourg, a~ ar<' al- ·, · · . . · · as December. I.n.. th1s.· _latest statcmen~. one,· And now th. at he has go. ne, the the •·ear, Presi.dcnt Davidson si.n- most all German universities, is h h d 1 ly w1th the J ' Th B ll Lt. A. G. Magrath of the Office w 1<: comc1 es so c ose · , burden has .shifted from •h1s shou- . 1 d t h f b coeducational. The school is not : , . death of \Mr. Union College,, .Dr. ders to yours. , g e. . ou t e s_uc_c_e.ss o a nu.rn er residential. Professor Ri<'HP ft>cls· ' : e· i e . of Naval Officer Procurement, AI- d t t t t t bl · · , . · · . bany, N. y ., will be on campus Davidson pointed out t~at 1 _fBruley \In .the history of Union College,\ .of stu en ac ·1v1 1es, _mas no a. y that Union ·has a community spirit, t th 1 t d f h e pre h b t d t k T ll ·on November 9th from 11:00 a.m. spen e as.· ay 0 - 16 1 . - Dr Davidson concludes \the death t e un.ea en .season 1 n ual rae promoted by on-campus living, that ' ' · 'd' tl r· · 1 comm1t · ' · . · ~ ·g . to 3:00 p.m. in Silliman Hall Sl mg over · le mancla · - of Frank Bailey marks the end of meets and the fine r-ecords com- is lacl,ing at h1s home university. v: · tee of the college · Procedure in class is much differ- . Lounge to .provide information con- . . an era.\ . pi·1ed .by the baseba!U and s'Wim~ ent in Germany. There are lee- Hal Vink is a fellow who is cerning applications and eligibility \Frank Bailey,\ he sai'd, \has Probably the most difficult de- niing teams. The Mounteban,ks tures and seminars, as here, but to inter-ested members of the class borne the •burden of Union finances · cis ion of the past year was • the came in for a ,share of praise as· he ordinarily, no recitation sections known as a \Jack of all of l!l54 and to graduate students. throughout the twentieth century; rais~ng of tuition charges begih- called the double bill of Aeschylus' which combine lecture and discus- trades\ arou11d the inner cir- The Navy's Officer candidate because of him the worries of .the: ning with the 1954-55 school year, Prometheus Bound and Pla.utus' sion. The typical German univer- de of :Mern()rial Chapel. This Program was developed from ex- trustees, the faculty, the students,. a move necessitated by salary in- , Casina, \. . . one of the best sity student is one to two years junior has his hand in almost perience gained during· world Wa:r. • creases and rising operating costs.·~ campus produc~ions of clas~icrul older than his American counter· Ch l · · IT. when it was found that a com- H c t } \Where these increases seem to, drama in. America.\ every ape adlV.Jty. Wheth- ouses ·omp·e e n· . t part. He is not classified as an bination of college education and · · , . ' : ' · · ' • impose excessive hardship .on s u- Two other major academic ite:tns undergladuate or po:;tgraduate stU· er you know the secret or not, concentrated naval training PJ:'O- n· 1 c t t dents now in· college,\ he sa,id, \the :on t,he agenda were Founder's pay dent, but maintains a continuous Hal Vink is the Quasimodo of ctuced PXtremely •COmpetent offi- ISP a·y ' 0· n· ·es committee on student a;id wiH give· .. F b . th' h • f 'd · t' t .. .,d. 1 1n . ·e ruary, . 1s year ononng cour-se of study leading to a doc- Union College. Yes, he is the cers.. College graduates selected ·~~re u~ ~onsli ~a 1°~ . o provi mg. Fitzhugh Ludlow, and Commence- torate. mysterious fe 1low who rings for this program receive an inten- Sixteen fraternities have ·entered. ma.ncla ass 8 nee. · mEmt exercises, featuring Honorary When questioned about the re- siv.e indoctrination in naval sub- the Student CounciHsponsored dis-· Reviews Al)com;plishments Chancellor, Thomas J. Watson, as organization of the old student the chapel's b€!1S every Tues- jects at the T:J.S. Nava:l Schools play contest, to be held Prom principal speakClr. dueling societies, Professor Riese day, Friday, and Sunday be- command, Newport, RI. Upon weekend. In the line of plant ml!-intenance,, replied that there are a few at f · h 1 successfully completing the ·course, the· bea.uty of the campus was con- The remainder of President ore our vanous c a.pe pro- Th t st ·s 1' following the D id · t d t d · Freibourg, but they are not gen- which is of four months duvation e con e 1 n · · siderably enhanced by the demoli~ av· sons repor was · evo e pl'l- erally approved of by school grams. Before each session, for all Line designates and two general theme of the weekend, tion of the temporary barracks in marily to a resume of changes in authorities. They originated much Hal saunters up the flight of month,; dUJ•ation for Staff Corps either the fiftieth anniversavy of ·the pasture. In addition, the the sta,ff and faculty of the college as our Greek letter fraternities did stairs to the bell room of the specialists. the candidatE>s are com- the Air Force, or the Hamilton Board of Trustees finally gave the during the year. A limite4 num- An integral part of these societies Chapel. He l'ings forth the missioned as Ensigns in the u.s. Game, green light to the new athletic . ber of co.pies. of \State of Union\ is the dueling, which is not mortal, Naval Reserve. The judging will talte place on field bouse, and the project is now may be obtain.ed: by wr.iting to. the but often leads to scarring as proof musical choiee for the day, Saturday, Nov, 14, between 10:30 in the· hands of the architects. office of the President. of bravery. They were disbanded and we are summoned to and 1:00, with the precise times for \::::::::::;;:::::::;;: by the Nazis because they were felt Chapel to the strains of such Chapel chores. He recalled the each house to be announced in the t to be potential sources of resist- ditties as Dra!met's theme, jokers who put the two firebombs Concordy next week. ance to the .government. Their re- ~ h Judges have been announced as H D 1 A d tl in the organ pipes, the time w en birth is being discouraged miJ.inly OW ry m, an , recen y, the bells struck noon as Hal Prof. and Mrs. Dona:ld Jones, Prof~ because of the undesirable rigid a fazzed-up version ()f Auld played Auld Lang Syne, and final- and Mrs. John Bradbury, and Prof .. class di:visions upon which they are Lang Syne. 'Who knows what ly, the very special notes on the and Mrs. Eugene Menke. ba~~- the whole, Professor Riese to expect in the future? ~~~J~t7o~~~Jecans~~n~:.de ~~ ut;~~ Scott P_a_i_n~t-i-~g-s-a--tChapel was pleased by the results of the Hal notes that the bells are wrong times. recent West German elections. He played on l!eys somewhat like An exhibition of paintings, draw- feels that a stable government will those of a pian·o. At other times, In the Concordy interview, Hal ings, and prints by Hayden Scott ]AMES Restaurant. • GOOD FOOD 11t ,price5 you can afford Booth and ·Fountain Service 426 State Street Frames Repaired · 147 JAY ST. Next to Mohican Phone 4-5875 be good for Germany. but noted the bells are wired to the clock said he liked his job a Jot, and as of Wesleyan College will be opened . that there is anxiety about any and ring automatically. For hi~ a music lover, he thought it ideal. to the public on Monday, ~ovem­ one party becoming too strong. services, Hal is the holder of a He is a most amusing fellow, so if ber 9, at Old Chapel, it was an- Coalitions, although not as stable, grant-in-aid, you're curious to meet the man nounced today by Dr. John M. generally prevent any one group Hal Vink's backstage activitiE's behind the bells here at Union, say Bradbury, head of the college Art ~~~=~~r~~~~~d~~oo~~~~lli~~~~ ~~~----------~~~=~~~~~=~~~~~~~-:-:-:-:·~::-:-~-==-=-=~~:·:·=·=-=-:·:·~· stitute one-party rule. Basic laws ringing. Hal js manager of the ~~o-~~;::an;;tehO~~:er;,ee~esqu:::~~ f:o;~~ ~~in~:n!~: ~;ci ~~~:!~!'~~ ~ ......... 'j:.;;;.;, .. v:;;~;......... It t·OO.k a lot ·o· . f. e·n· . g· l·neert··n·. g to. tions in Hamburg have given Ad- the Chapel's complex organ. He enauer a clear two-thirds majority. says that working with a man of Unsurpassed ---oo--- such talent as Dr. Tidmarsh is 1 S • H p C PI real experience and oppportunity Renfa ervJce k b . t t h '' • <co~unu:d rro~~age 1> fo~h~~~u:~:~~s~~:~~~ a guy when OTTAVIAN:O'S IDa C a ettCt . grass. oppet exchange of five boys from each it comes to extra-curricular af- SARTORIAL BAR fraternity will take place every fairs. Besides his connection with two weeks. This week's exchange Chapel, Hal is treasurer of the NEW LOCATION schedule: Mountebanks, secretary of his 423 LIBERTY STREET Phi Sigma Delta and Phi Delta class, and dale chairman of Sigma Theta; Phi Sigma Kappa anll Chi fraternity. Open Thursday eves., and Delta Phi; Sigma Chi and Sigma In brief, the Campus Quasimodo by appointment Phi; Alpha Delta Phi and Delta Chi; Phi Gamma Dt''lta and Kappa is quite a busy fellow-but he is DIAL 4·7801 N not too busy to overlook some of Alpha; Psi UpsUon and Kappa u; the laughs intermingled with his ................... ... ................... ..... ······· Beta Theta Pi and Kappa Sigma; Delta Upsilon and Beta Eta Up- ;~~~i~~~~~~~~~i silon. and Chi Psi and ThPta D€'lta ,------~-- .. ·-------.-. ........ ., I , I • • i Special Prom i Chi. Barandes, as well as all the council members, feels that such a program will be a big step toward strengthening interfraternity rela- tions. DESK LAMPS Adjustable Incandescent and Fluorescent • SAVE SUPPLY CO. 50 I State St. PHONE 6-4193 Guerra•s Pharmacy Prescriptions - Drugs Fountain Service 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. Just two blocks from t;be campus Serving Union's Men. For Years See youl\ agent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114. State St. near Ferry 8 Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewelry 'Go. State t!lnd Bro11dway • • ! Prices t c , ~ , ! Corsages! . ) ~ 20°/o off l . , : QUI\ esf(lbfished prices ~ . . ' c . t iT~ J~ KJlNGi ~ ' i Floral Shop i ~ State St. at Overhead Crossing ~ :. ! Phone your orders i 1 ' ·~ 2-3361 i : ... . . . 4 Corsages individually de- ~ :signed for your Date's gown. ' 1 • i No charge for Boutonniere l • • 1 : t • • ~~-~---~--·-~-·-0~-----· GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS Engineers at Western Electric's St. Paul Shops are well pleased with their new-style \grasshopper\ fuse-a small fuse used :in Bell telephone central office equipment . The former model- in production for years-had been gradually refined 'til it seemed almost beyond further improve- ment. It was simple, inexpensive, efficient, came off the line fast. But •.• • It's an old Western Electric engineering custom to keep trying to make Bell tele- phone equipment still better, at still lower cost. The \grasshopper\ was studied by a young engineer out of the UnivE!rsity of Minnesota, Class of '40, who joined the Company in 1946. His studies indicated the most effective way to improve effi- cienc-y and cut costs further waste change the design. Pursuing this lead the engineer and his group saw their opportunity to make an important contribution. They investiga- ted the latest tooling techniques, new metals, finishing materials and methods, all of which are constantly tJ,llder study by engineers at Western Electric plants. A simplified design, which permitted the use of the most modern tooling methods, re- sulted in a better fuse at lower cost that is saving thousands of dollars a year for Bell telephone companies. ~here's ~n endle$s stream of such challeng. mg asstgnments at Western Electric. Engineers of varied skills -mechanical. ' electrical, civil, chemical, metallurgical- find real satisfaction in working together on the important job of providing equipment for the best telephone service on earth. How the grasshopper fuse works Small fuses like this are used by the millions to protect certain telephone central office cir- cuits against current overloads. Odd in appear- ance, the fuse is called the \grasshopper\ be· cause of its spring which is released when the fuse blows, displaying an indicator \flag\ in open view and tripping an alarm so the trouble can be spotted and corrected at once. NEW DESIGN ASSEMBLED FUSE ONE-PIECE FORMED SPRING WITH INDI· ~ CATING FLAG-MADE·BY STANDARD PUNCH --d~ PRESS METHODS. ~~....,~-,.,\\?;',h=-~-. FIBRE STRIP SPRAYED WITH COLORED LACQUER FOR CODE IDENTIFICATION. INDitATOR SPRING HELD BY AND STMED ............ TO FLAT TERMINAL-SOLDERIN.G ELIMI· \\'-.. NATE D. PRE·FORMED RADIAL BEND IS NOT VUL· NEBABLE TO DEF.ORMATJON IIY IMPROPER HANDLING -·ND ADJUSTMENT FOR TEN· ----.-.._.::c._ SION NECESSARY:· • Engineer etnt;l punch press operator check vroducticm of parts for newly designed grasshopper fuse. A UNIT OF TilE BELL SYSTEM SINCE· 1882 A!i Ne th.-t Vf•l

1'953 Nott 2-n- Of sin- track com- s-wim• eban,ks as· he best items pay ali; pri- in college num- ' Union\ t() the I ___ j cir- be- the 'in SE 1882 News Thoiit Fit;· yt• Print . ID4t <ttnurnrbtrusta Founded at llnion in 1877 SCHENECTADY. N. Y •• NOVEMBI;R 13. 1953 , THE IDLE EOR IDLE HOURS Welcome - Girl< .Havo Yourself A Ball PRICE 1'0 CENTS

Page Two C!Jn.urnr Member Associated Col~ legla to Press and dlstrl hutor of the Collegiatt Digest. National .Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Adve~tlsing Service, Inc.. College Publishers ~epresentative, 420 Madi- son Ave, N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday or the school year. nituatn Edlt<>rL:a!· Otflce,Washburn Hall;, ·Uni<>n College. Pub· licatJon Q!J:Ice, The Ga· zett-e Frees, a34 State :St. Entered ln the Schenec- tad:Y Ji?ost Office as Sec· ond 'Cl!l.llS Mall Matter, suboscr-iptlon. 10·c a copy: $3 ye~l' delivered any. wh~r& In the United States, Idle Weekend ~ . . Replaces Air Force Motif November 13 1 1953 Misinf ornuition :,MONDAY, NOV. 11-Da!Jy .Aasem- . bly, football at Un,ion, speaker, Sa~:n Sledgehammer, \II? It Time . To ;De-emphasize Athletics at Union?\ M:C, noon; Film; ·oc;. 8 p.m., \Ed Fit?;'s Home Movies.\ . TUESDAY, NOV. 1hDajly -Assem- It has been reported' frmn the bly, speaker,. Prof. Egbert Pork, · vicinity of Union College that the \Hydrogen Sulphide and You,\ MC, usual post weekend sluggishness, noon; Fil'st and last meeting9t: the that settles over this Eastern cam~ Suicide Club, 3 a.in., Ba:iiey Hall pus has descended upon ·the school roof. Novel I: -~ SENIOR BOA-:;RD HERBERT L. SPIRA. '54 ... , .. , 3-8650; ......... , • .. • .. • Editor-In-Chief GARY R. KATZ '66 ............. 2·3tnt. ... .. • .. . .. . .. Associate. Editor MARTIN EA. USER '55 •..• , ... , .6'~540. ,,_ ,, .... , , ....... Sportll Editor three days earlier this year. For WEDNESDAY, N()V. 11 - Koran · this Weekend: the theme of the •Criticism Group meeting, , guest .. prom has quickly . been altered ·speaker, Mme. Boot;!lt, Bailey Hall fron:t Fifty 'Years of Air Pow-er t«>, head, noon; Special lecture, t'Mari- ROBERT' CS:AR'l'OFF '65 ....... 2.36H. ,,_, •••....•. Managing Editor PETER T. ADLER '55 ...... , ... 9~~640 •..... -,. ... , ,, ....... New's Editor ROBERT BECK '54 ••••• , , • , •• , , • 2·3 611-.. • . . • . • • • . • Business Manager JACK J, WOOLF '55 ............. 2-36ll ........... Circulation :Man11.ger IRWIN GERTZOG 'S<r .......... 2·361-I ...... , .......... Feature Editor MARVIN BORIS '66 ••••.•••••••• 6·996~ ,,, •.•••••. Photography Editor R013lll'R'l' R1CHTER '54 ..... : . .• 2·3611 ........... , ...•....•. Copy Editor . JUNIOR B~A:BD • JOSEPH HOLLINGER '56 .•• , ...... , . - Ass1atant Circulation Manager PAUL. 'GILB]lRT '54 ................................. , .. J,Uxohange· Editor ROGER MERRILL '55 ......................... Asslst!Lnt Sports llldlt~:>r. ROBERT SWART '54 ........................................... Art Editor GEOR'GID BOFFIN '55 ..•.......... , .......... Assistant Feature Editor A:!JA.N ROSENFELD '54 .. .. .. .. .. .. • .. • .. Associate Exchange Editbt REl'O R'l!:E~S Norman Havtner, Noah Berley, Leslie ·j3ernstein, Da1id BerrY. Arthur Fabricant, David Fink, Joel Gitlin,. AVNJI!l Gold, Fred Gottlieb, Hans Groot,· William Bancoc!t, .Hart· K!ve'tt. ·steven I..ewls .. Ralph Manias, Josel)!l Martorano, Richard Propp, B;enjamin Sadock, Philipc Sch>!efer, Reuben Schw:,wtz, . Norman SC'\111, Mm:a,·ic:e Silber, Richard Slutsltet'•· Charles Spiel's; Robert Tofel, Alaq Yom,g, .Mart!'n :Zimmerman. BUSINESS STU>F Alfred ~agel, .Stanley Forwand, A.rihur- Brenner, A\thur Feldman, James SP'er9. Frederic Grosse. Robert I..,ol'll:is, Alan· Greene. CIRCULA.TlON STA.FF Haroiq Patterson, Carl M!ndell, Rl'chari'J. S·baver, Roger Harvey, FRESU·:MEN :JlE.POJl.TERS· La;cndisJau Berka, Jerome Goldstein •. Jerrold Hirschen, Edward Kloos, Steven Knafel, Calvi~ Knickerbocker-, Edward Langholz, Rl~ha1·d Lewis, Joel !'Iattner, A.lbert Sa.Jvato, .1\:IEJ,:n .Schecter. A.Jan Schiffman, John Sein, :Alan Shucard, Wi!liam Sisson, Sllllon .Stertzer,, William Tone. Campus Goes Wild ·on Idle Weekend Union Colleg~; usually a sober all-male institution, this weeken<l will be transformed. into a g·enial madhouse of lusty alcoholism. From all reports thls .should be the wildest Prom Weekend of them all. ~)-J~------~~~--~--­ The weekend \officially\ starts at !! tonigh.t when the party-ers week, the Delphic Society has con- ·sented to- run. a hel'oin concession will stagger to AJurnni Gym for a.t the fC>Otball game. Carter Dav• folir hours of legalized sex to the ldson will handle the publicity. accompaniment of th.e Sa.mpsoll!.,; , Air Force Base Band. ' Saturday evening the merry- : :mak~rs will retire to their !rater- Next· on the schedule a.re tlloe nity houses where Prohibition style frat.;rnlty house parties, which ·of·· tar :9:var!ety €>f attractions. Nol>oii.:y' 'shol]ld have difficulty in figu:E'IIl.g out what to d1:1 next. parties are planned, As ·one sober 1\:appa.Sig told this reporter, \The Volstead Act didn't stop my Dad. I'm damned If the D;l,vidso.n Amendment will hamper me.\ It Anyone having 'aifflculty a.loog is rumored that illegal liquor has been brought to campus under the -these lines may call the Conc<>rdy guise of food for the College Em- -office where Colonel Soulliere \V\ill parium. The last shipirlent is due be on duty throughout the nlgllt to on the Hamilton bus tomorrow af· answer questions and give advitCe. · ternoon. Saturday afternoon will be nigh- On Sunday morning Union men lighted by a series of athletic •C'()n.- and th!?ir dates will attend chapel where Dr, Norman Johnson will tests. The Garnet will oppose Ram-. speak on the \Ethics of Sex - ilton on Alexander Field in a ga..me Why?\ Feelings of drunken revelry well calculated to keep y~il in will be replaced by a mood of sober Suspense. In addition the harriers remorse. After the dates have left, their escorts will retire to the in~ will run against Ea:mllton and· tll.e firmary where aspirins and sulfa Soccer team plays Colgate. 'To add pills will be passed out. As a mat- , to the general athletic theme <lf ter of fact, the escorts may be: the weekend several houseliil l:lave passed out. In this manner we will scheduled wrestling matches• aod bid a fond adieu to another Prom boxing at various times thra.tlg:1J()ut Weekend. By the way, does any-. the weekend. To compensate for one ltnow when Winter Weekend·· the \no alc;ohol\ rule institll'l:ecl. this begins? ; . a Union College Idle Weekend; lyn Monroe, \The ';!,'win Peaks of California,\ Jackson's Gll,rdens, 2 'The pla.IlS of this .gala evel\t were· considerable modified to gp along a.m. . witll pbis n~w theme. The qance' THURSDAY, NOV. l~Daily As- • band originally featured at the · seml)Iy, ninth in a. series, \The ·.Prom h!U been suddenly changed. Tadpole !l,nd World Politics,\ To obtain a more relaxed mood speaker, Prof. Raymond Ripapart, at the affair now entitled Let's ·Sit' l\!IC; noozr; Special meeting, Sche.. . This One out, Rex .stuart .and. J;Iis nectady Garbagemen's Association, Dreamy Five have transplanted· . W e.st College Kitchen, ~ p.:m. the Sampson Air Force Base Ba.nd<, FRIDAY, NOV, 13-baily .Assem- To quote. one upperclassman corn- b!y, . recital, iDr. Emil (I've played menting on the musicaJ change. in Paris) Titmouse, ,\The Student \!'m glad tD hear that they decjded and' The Organ,\ music for the on Rex, that man really relaxes masses; Meeting of the Paranoids me, he puts me out. As a. matter and Schizos Anonymous, speaker, of fl!ct last tirne he was here .they Prof. C. w. Mauso}eu:rns, \Nud- had to carry me· down from the ism for the Inhibited,\ Glenridge · gym (.burping). Sanatorium, 2 p.m. It has aiso been· learned that SAT.URD~Y,. 1of()V. 14 ~ Varsity most of the athletic events ached~ .football, Union· vs. Hamilton, EE uledi for the weekend have been. 22, 2 p.m., (.limited number of seats cancelled and discounting a foot- available by invita,tion only); ball fra:c&s at Alexander F':leld most Wrestling exhiibtion, anywhere on of the activity is expe~ted to take campus, time indefinite and of no place in the various fraternity matter. house. Sam Slamenha.rd Union· 'SUNDAY, NOV. 15--Sunday Ser- coach is reported .switching to the· mon, spe!l,ker, Mr. James Barrell, new Canadian nine man team. \The Evils of Alcohol/' MC, ll a.m. \Gives· two. more men. a <:hance to rBst,\ says Sam. Sam· also dis- closed that the team has once first time this yeal' they play to- more been orgnized; They nave gether. now shifted f~om the Split \T\ to. Rumors have also descended to a straight \T\ balanced, ·line. Let's. our ear~;~ that fraternity houses are harmonize is the new theme of the .going along with the) Idle theme. team. This will by the way be the (Continued on :P~ 3) See Here Private Hargrove (p .,J JC I . - -- - Y Cltl're out of uniform cadet-.-5 Demerits sprin good,l was, fine. I l're him hi the gi tbe h lasse.s 1 his ' Cle~n · He~ a1·ounc big Wj' '!'his done, fine, I Thei him. soniy. 1 This , done. She I him, t be, l'i AnselrJ many and st \An 1 erto, ~ her?\ \l'ht 1 rabbit the th 1 that.\ ~~r, t th~ir q Ans< He wa was ol back: load g: Yearfi' 1 old. '1 olean ~ it mao the co is time bye, tJ must 1 \Ver· e:rto, .l arms locked At I good t should I supp' of the Ansel!lj to be: \Come for th 1 thou a \Not ilnd AI clean · of ·:rna; clean ~ T!:tey .~ether. !he guJ :<un. 1 \f the· RobertJ 1 fine the gy 'oo :zn~ Rut it these t< this -!!rl -And ~ .. ,) .-.1 , I <; 1 I I I

Page Two Q!ournr Member Assoclated Col- legiate Press and dlstrl hutor or the Collegiatt Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers l~epresentative. 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lislled every Fl'lday of tbe school .)lear. Edltovial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Puh· Ji~tion @ffl~e. Tbe Ga- zette Freas, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Po•t Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, subscription lOc a copy; $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. SENIOR lHHRD HERBERT L. SPIRA '54 ....... 3-8650................. Editor-in-Chief GARY R. R.A TZ '55 ............. 2-3611 ............... Associate Edltur MARTIN HAUSER '55 .....•.•.. 6-9540 .....•....•.•..... Sports Editor ROBERT CHART OFF. '.65 ....... 2-3611 ............... M~naging Editor PETER T. ADLER '55 .......... 9-!>540 ................... News Editor ROBERT BECK '54 ..... ., ....... 2-3611 ............. Business ·Manager JACK J. 'WOOLF '55 .......... , . 2-3611........... Circulation Manager I!~ WIN 11ERTZOG '54 .......... 2·3611 ................ Feature gditor MARVIN BORIS '55 ............. 6-9959 ........... Photography Editor ROBWRT RlCHTEH '5•1 ... , , • , .. 2-3611. ..•................. Copy Edt tor JUNIOR. BOARD • JOSEPE HOLLINGER 'L6 ••• , ••.•••• , .Assistant Circulation 'Manager PAUL GILBERT 'li4 ................................. Exchange Editor ROGEil .:MERRILL '55 , , •.•.•••••••••••• , •.••.. Assistant Sports Editor · ROBIHlT SWART '54 ........................................ .Art Editor G)l:ORGJ.'C SO]fl•'I;-.1 '55 • .• . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . • • . . Assistant Feature Editor A (.A.'<\ ROl:lENFELD '54 .................. As,odate .Exchange Bditor RE·POR.TERS Norman Bartner, Noah Berley, Leslie Ilernsteln. David Berry, Arthur I<'abrlcmn, David Fink. Joel Gitlin, Avrom Gold, F<-ed Ho(tlieb, Han\ Groot. \Villiam Han~ock, Hart H:I,·ett, Steven J..ewis\ Halph ~lanies, JOseph ~Iartorano, H.iehard Propp, Benjamin Haddt.'k, l ,htli}l :::ehaefer. Reuben Schwantz,. ;s'orman Seull, i\'!aurice Silber, Hidmrd Sluts](er, Charles Spiers, Huuert Tofel, Alan Young, ~!arlin ZlmmHman. BUSINESS !STAFF Alfred .!'<adel, f'Hanley Forwand, Arthur Brenner, Arthur Feldman, James Spero, Frederlc Grosse, Robert J,ewls, Alan Greene. CIRCULATION S'l'AFF Harold Patterson, Carl Mindell, Richard Shaver, Roget· Ha.rvey. FRESHMEN REPORTERS Landlsla.u Berka, Jerome Goldstein, Jerrold Hirsl'hen, Edward Kloos, Steven Knafel, Calvin Knickerboclrer, Bdward Langholz. Ri~hard Lewis. Joel Plattner, Albert Salvato, Alan Schecter, Alan Schiffman, John Sein, Alan Shucard, WiJliam Sisson, Simon Stertzer, William Tone. Campus Goes Wild On Idle Weekend Union College, usually a sober all-male institution, this weekend will be transformed into a genial madhouse of lusty alcoholism. From all reports this should be the wildest Prom Weekend of them all. The weeken,d \officially\ starts at 9 tonight when the party-ers will stagger to Alumni Gym for four hours of legalized sex to the accompaniment of the Sampson Air Force Base Band. Next on the schedule are the fraternity house parties, which of- fer a variety of attractions. Nobody should have difficulty in figuring o-ut what to do next. Anyone having tiifficulty along these lines may call the Concordy office where Colonel Soulliere will be on duty throughout the night to answer questions and give advice. week, the Delphic Society has con- sented to run a heroin concession at the football game. Carter Dav-. idson will handle the publicity. Saturday evening the merry- makers will retire to their frater- nity houses where Prohibition style parties are planned. As one sobet• Kappa Sig told this reporter, \Tbe Volstead .Act didn't stop my Dad. I'm damned if the :Oavidson Amendment will hamper me.\ It is rumored that illegal liquor has been brought to campus under the guise of food for the College Em- porium. 'l'he last shipntent is due on the Hamilton bus tomorrow af- ternoon. Saturday afternoon will be high- On Sunday morning Union men lighted by a series of athletic con- and their dates will attend chapel where Dr. Norman Johnson will tests. The Garnet will oppose Hrun- speak on the \Ethics of Sex - ilton on Alexander Field in a ~;arne Why?\ Feelings of drunken revelry well calculated to keep you in will be replaced by a mood of sober Suspense. 1n addition the barriers remorse. After the dates have left, their escorts will retire to the in- will run against Hamilton and the firmary where aspirins and sulfa Soccer team plays Colgate, To add pills will be passed out. As a mat- to the general athletic then:.e of ter of fact, the escorts may be the weekend several houses have passed out. In this manner we will scheduled wrestling matches and I bid a fond adieu to another Prom boxing at various times throughout Weekend. By the way, does any-, the weekend. To compensate for one know when Winter Weekend the \no alcohol\ rule instituted this begins? Idle Weekend Replaces Air Force Motif It has been reported from the vicinity of Union College that the usual post weekend sluggishness. that settles over this Eastern cam- .pus has descended upon the school three days earlier this year. For this weekend the theme of the prom. :has quickly been altered from Fifty Years of Air Power to a Union College Id-le Weekend. November 13, 1953 Misinformation MONDAY,. N.OV. 9~Dai!y Assem- bly, football at Union, speaker, Sam Sledgehammer, \Is It Time To De-emphasize Athletics at Union?\ MC, m>On; FHm, ·oc, 8 · p.m., \Ed Fitz's Home Movies.\ TUESDAY, NOV. 10-Dal!y Assem- bly, speaker, Prof. Egbert Pork, \Hydrogen Sulphide and You,\ MC, noon; First and last meeting of the Suicide Club, 3 a.m., Bailey Hall roof. WEDNESDAY, NOV. 11 - Koran ·Criticism Group meeting,. , guest speaker, Mme. Bandit, Balley Hall head, noon; Special lecture, Mari- lyn Monroe, \The Twin Peaks of California,\ Jackson's Ga:rdens, 2 The plans of this gala event were considerable modified: to go along a.m. with ~his new theme. The dance THURSDAY, NOV. 12-Daily As- band o1·iginally featured at the sembly, ninth in a series, \The Pr-om has been suddenly changed. Tadpole and World Politics,\ To obtain a more relaxed mood speaker, Prof. Raymond Ripapart, at the affair now entitled Let's Sit MC, noorr; special meeting, Sche- This One out, Rex Stuart and. His nectady Garbagemen's Association, Dreamy Five have transplanted West College Kitchen, 1 p.m. the Sampson Air Force Base Band. FRIDAY, NOV. 13-Daily Assem- To quote one upperclassman com- bly, recital, Dr. Emil (I've played menting on the musical change.' in Paris) Titmouse, \The Student \I'm glad to hear that they decided and The Organ,\ music for the on Rex, that man really relaxes masses; Meeting of the Paranoids me, he puts me out. As a matter and Schizos Anonymous, speaker, of fact last time he was here they Prof. C. W. Mausoleums, \Nud- had to ca:rry me down from the ism for the Inhibited,\ Glenridge gym (burping). Sanatorium, 2 p.m. It has also been learned that SATURDAY, NOV. 14 - Varsity most of the athletic events sched- football, Union vs, Hamilton, EE uled for the weekend have been 22, 2 p.m., (limited number of seats cancelled and discounting a foot- avallable by invitation only); ball fracas at Alexander Field most Wrestling exhiibtion, anywhere on of the activity is expected to take campus, time indefinite and of no · place in the various fraternity matter. ' house. Sam Slamenhard Union SUNDAY, NOV. 15--Sunday Ser- coach is reported switching to the mon, speaker, Mr. James Barrell, new Canadian nine man team. \The Evils of Alcohol,\ MC, 11 a.m. \Gives two more men a chance to rest,\ says Sam. Sam also dis- closed that the team has once more been orgnized. They have now shifted from the Split \T\ to a straight \T\ balanced line. Let's harmonize Is the new theme of the team. This will by the way be the first time this year they play to- gether. Rumors have also descended to our ears that fraternity houses are going along with the Idle theme. (Continued on PagJe 3l See Here Private Hargrove I NovE - F spri-r good 1 was fine. 1 B:e him ~ the g the t lasse~ his. clean Bel aroun big \\ This I done. fine, Thr' him. softiy 1 This done. She 1 him, 1 be, J Ansc11 many and .s \Ani erto, her?n \Thl rabbit the tt that.\l \! thei; J Ansi Hew was c back I load E Years Old. 1 clean it mao the c~ is tim bye, t must I \Vez erto, arms I locked At good ~ should I supp of thel A.nseln to he \Comf'' for tl thou 9 \Noli tnd ) dean .. r mel u) · J li , __ ' riean - You're out of uniform cadet-S Demerits The.\ ·pthe 1 :1 ·he gu ·~un. , •f thel 'loberj o fine :he g~l '>0 :rn 'lut i( 'hese f 'hia a 1 And I

8 all of 2 As- th~ aker, EE only); on of no Ser- 11 a.m. to- to are theme. 3) Page Three. I'm Not Drunk, Just High For Whom !Th.e B.all Rolls By Pub.lius IV He was under th.e cotich. The clean fresh smell of the · springs and the cloth was in his nostrils. It was clean and good. ~twas a ~lean .fine night fo: a dean fine party. That was what got h1m sbout the parties. They were clean and · fine. They were good. He turned his head and nd:t to~·>--' ---~------~~--­ him he saw ·the clean, fine ·body of the girl. His little rabbit, She· of the honey colored hair and mol- lasses colored eye-balls: :She was his. That was as it should be, clean and fine. He heard the sound of :many feet around him. He !mew something big was comfng off. This was it. This of the gymnasium must be done. It was simple, clean ·and fine, truly. Then the girl stirnd n.ext to him, \My little rabbit,\ he belched softly. \Tonight may be the last. This of the gymnasium must be done. There is no other way.\ She lifted her head and regarded him, this man of hers. \lf it must be, Roberto, it must be.. Tell Anselmo to be careful for he is of many years, not young and clean and strong, truly, as you,\ \And the old woman,\ said.Rob· erto, stifling a belch. \What of her?n \The hell with her,\ the little rabbit replied. \I this and that in the this and that of hel' this and that.\ \I too,\ said Roberto, and. then their bodies were locked. ./l.nselmo staggered into the.room. He was bearing a heavy load. He was old. When he was younger, back in Seville, he could bear a load greater .than any m:an of his years or )leyond, .but' now he was old. The old botly was no longer clean and fine. 'This he kne-w, and it made him sad. He appl'oa.ched the coach. '~Roberto\ be said, \It is time. Bid the little rabbit !good- bye, for this of the gymnasium must be qone.\ \Very w:ell, Old One\ said Rob- erto, ·while .grappling wit'h the arms of the ~abbit which. were locked about. him, truly. At last b,e was free. It was good to be free,\ he though.t, \All should have freedom such a.s this. I suppose that is what makes this of the gym;nasium vital.\ He saw Anselmo braced against the ;wall, to help him support the load. \Come Old· One, we m·ust be off, for the snows approachetl:t and thou are ill prepared for it.\ \Not half so ill as thou\ Roberto, and Anselmo laughed. rt -was a clean laugh, the latigh of a D)ai;l of many years, but nevertheless, clean and fine and good, truly, They gathered the equipment to- .~ether. Explosives, detonator and lhe gUn, they could not forget ·the ~un. The gun with the :good. smell of the grease and dust and: .filth. Roberto thought; \Thou art truly 'l fine gun, gun of mine. This of the gymn~ium may prove to .be 'oo much. And what is it for? Rut it is forbidden j;o think in these terms. I this and that in the this ;:tnd that of my thoughts;\ And then they were ready; All was assembled. The little Rabbit' was sad as she slowly let the water drip into the pale yellow liquid • and tossed it down, \Ahhhhh she. said and it was good. \Thou should lay off the ab- sinthe, Rabbit,\ Roberto .said. \It is for 'Thou that 'r take it so, Roberto,'' she belched and tossed off another glass. · \Very well,\ he said. \We are ready to go. Please little one, no tears, for you know that r this and that in thy tears\. \A good, strong woman,\ he thought, \All women should be good and strong, and clean, truly.\ And hen they were gone, the old man and the young one. The gymnasium stood, silently in the moonlight. ·They approached it cautioUsly. \Go silently, Old One\ said Rob- erto \for this of the Gymnasium 'ill ust be in silence.\ They planted the charges well, there was nothing so good as well planted charge, and then withdrew to the. bushes to wait. · They heard the sound of ID!\ny feet. The enemy, truly . Roberto picked u:p the gun, greasy and filthy as a gun should be, .a; gun for killing. The Oid One has passed out. The load had been too heavy. \This was it,\ thought Roberto, ''I hope the Little Rabbit can hold her absinthe.\ \And then the g.un was against his shoi.tldel\ and he pressed the clean, fine trigger. But it was no use. The enemy was up- on him. He was lifted and then dropped as if by giant hands. \Was it all for naught, this of the gym- nasium,\ he thought. \All no, it was for the Rabbit and Anselmo arid they are good and clean and fine, as they should be!' \He thought to himself, \Ask not for whom the prom falls, it falls for etaoin shrdlu, truly.\ ---0•--- The ldl.e Pollutes: ''Here to Maternity'' Last week I decided that I had to see the great ex- travanganza, From Here To Mate1nity, that is currently smashing records at one of the locp;l flop houses in Schenec- tady. The ITl()Vie is undoubtedly Academy Award material; it is a melodramatic fiasco that should appeal 'to the low brow crew that sets the lowest common denomenator as a standard of eJCcellence. · From Here W. Maternity is a~·r-· -,.\----~------~-­ story pregnant with humanism, eyes (meticulously applied by Wal- having its seed, in James Jones ly Westmore), sne bites her lip best selling novel <Where the Egg (being careful not to smear her lipstick) and asks Burt if he Came From ·Noi>ady Knows). To brought an adding machine along. those who are interested in sex, ·Lancaster quickly whips out an and who isn't, this picture is a IBM from beneath his Bikini and must. To me, tl:)e move seemed gets up to when when . . . they like ·one long lllake out session. kiss, hungrily, passionately; noth- The~:e is a forty minute period · b h b t where the sex-starved director al• mg can e eard u the rising and falling crescendo of the waves, the ternates his camera between two beat of their hearts and the crunch C G Idl . violent ldve scenes. In one of these, f ampus oes . . e Burt \Muscles'!• Lancaster is mak- ·O popcorn from a bleary-eyed bobby soxer who has not kept her (Continued fro~ Page.2) ing hot time ,with De,?orah \Miss .psychic di.stan.ce. At this point I H~st~rectomy' of 1953 Kerr kin .a had to ·change my seat because the Most houses are now planhing to m1dmght birt?da:S: pa~ty (both ac- ·horns the guy behind me had been have pajama parties on Saturday tors ,are ~ppw.pna~ely. ~arbed for growing since the beginning of the night. One freshman was heard th~ o.ccas~on). Jt rs qmt~ ~ cozy picture were nudging me in the singing, \that's a; great idea, I shmdrg wrth Lancaster nppmg to back wish my date and myself could the cpmely ·blind in fine style, · stay in our all weekend.\ One while all Miss Kerr has on is the The other love scene involves upperclassman really· in the spirit radio. There is a heart breaking Donna Weed, a chesty, fully stack- of the theme sang in a more seri- moment in this affected little in- ed brunette any gUy would love to ous voice, \Why not? That's what cident when Laneaster accuses De- take a few drags on and Monty my date and myself pl~:~,n on·dding.\ borah of infidelity. ·Miss Kerr, of Clift, a wistful foot soldier that And so the plans have ben set. the blond hair and twisted tubes, can't seem to forget the days when The relaxed mood has descended swears she is a; faithfUl woman, he was bugler with the Cub Scout and most of the men and women· but gives in (she is always .giving Pack 199, Brooklyn, New York. are already quite loose. We can in) when Lancaster reminds her Clift's instantlfileous conquest of now expect most of these same stu- that he is not her husband. Lan- Miss Weed is minimized that Donna dents to turn to their grind Mon- caster pursues his advantage .and portrays a girl that seems about as d1;1.y with a fresh and renewed asks Deborah how many men she hard to make as one of Betty vigor? has had. With teams coming to her (Continued on Page 13).

8 he all est of 2 As- The ics,\ part, the ids \Nud- EE seats only) i on of no Ser- Barrell, 11 a.m. play to- to uses are theme. 3) November 13, 1953 Page Th~ee I'm Not D~runk, Just High For Whom The Ball Rolls By, Publius IV I He was under the couch. The clean fyesh smell of the 1 springs and the cloth was in his nostrils. It wa.s clean andl good. It was a clean fine night for a clean fine ]ilarty. That was what got him ahont the parties. They were clean and· fine. They were good. He turned his head and next to$•!-' --------------- him he saw the clean, fine body of the gil·!. His little rabbit. She of was assembled. The little Rabbit th h 1 d h was sad as she slowly- let the water , e oney co ore air and mol- d . . t . . ' lasses colored eye-balls. She was -np m 0 t.he . pale ,/c> llow ~~qllld his. That 'has as it should be, an.d tossecl It down, Ahhhhh, she clean and fine. said and 1 t was good. He heard the sound of many £eet I . \Thou slw.ul~ lay off tJ;e ab- around him. He knew sonlething smthe, Rabbit, Roberto smd, big was coming off. This ·was it. \It is for Thou that r take it so, 1 This of the gymnasium must be I Roberto,\ she belched and tossed, 1 , done. It was simple, clea.n and off another glass. I fine, truly. \Very well,\ he said. \We arc I Then the girl stirred next to ready to go. Please little one, no him. \My little rabbit,\ he belched I team, for you know- that I this softly. \Tonight may be the last, and that in thy tear-s!'_ \A .good, i This of the gymnasium must be strong woman.\ he thought, \All I done. There is no other way.\ women should be goC>d and strong, 1 . She lifted her head and regarded and clean, truly.\ him, this man of hers. \If it must And hPn tlwy were gone, the old be, Roberto, it must be. Tell man and the young one, Anselmo to. be careful for he is of The gymnasium stood, silently many years, not young a.nd clean in the moonlight. They approached and strong, truly, as you.\ it cautiously. \And the old woman,\ said Rob- erto, stifling a belch. \What of \Go silently, Old One\ said Rob- erto \for this of the Gymnasium must be in silence.\ , , 1.0:33 A.M. tN her?Jl \The hell with her,\ the little rabbit replied. \I this and that in the this and that of her tb.is and that.\ \I too,\ said Roberto, and then their bodies were locked. Anselmo staggered into the l'Oom. He was bearing a heavy load. He was old. When he was younger, back in Seville, he could bear a load greater than any man of his years or beyond, but· now he was old. The old body was no longer clean and fine. This he knew, and it made him sad. He approached the coach. \Roberto\ he said, \It is time. Bid the little rabbit good- bye, for this of the gymnasium must be done.\ \Very well, Old One\ said Rob- erto, while grappling with the arms of the Eabbit which were locked about him, truly, At last he was free. It was good to be free,\ he thought, \All should have freedom such as this. I suppose that is what makes this of the gymnasium vital.\ H:e saw Anselmo braced against the wall, to help him support the load. \Come Old One, we must be off, for the snows approacheth and thou are ill prepared for it.\ \Not half so ill as thou\ Roberto, tnd Anselmo laughed. It was a dean laugh, the laugh of a. man ,f many years, but never.theless, rlean and fine and good, truly. They planted the ·>Charges well, there was nothing so good as well planted charge, and tllen withdrew to the bushes to waa. They heard the sound of many feet. The enemy, trll:lY- Roberto picked tLp the gun, greasy and filthy as a gun should be, .a gun for killing. The Old One has passed out. The load had been too heavy. \This was it,\ thought Roberto, \I hope the Little Ral:Jbit can hold her absinthe.\ \A then the gun was against his shoulder, and he pressed the clean, fine trigger. But it was no use. The enemy was up- on him. He was lifted and then dropped as if by giant hands. \Was it all for naught, this of the gym- nasium,\ he thougllt. \Ah no, it was for the Rabbit and Anselmo and tl!ey are good and clean and fine, as they should be.\ \He thougl!t to himself, ••Ask not for whom the prom falls, it falls for etaoin shrdlu, truly.\ ---0--- Campus Goes Idle The ldl.e Pollutes: ''Here to Maternity'' Last week I decided that I had tl) see the great ex- travanganza, From Here To Maternity, that is currently smashing records at one of the local flop houses in Schenec- tady. The movie is undoubtedly Academy Award material; it is a melodramatic fiasco that should appeal 'to the low brow crew that sets the lowest common denomenator as a standard of excellence. · From Here to Maternity is a • · story pregnant with humanism, eyes (meticulously applied by Wal- having its seed in James Jones ly Westmore), sne bites her lip best selling novel <Where the Egg (being careful not to smear her Came From Nobady Knows), To those who are interested in sex, and who isn't, this picture is a must, To me, the move seemed like one long make out session. There is a forty minute period where the sex-starved director al- ternates his camera between two violent love scenes. In one of the,.e, ·Burt \Muscles\ Lancaster is mak- ing hot time with Deborah \Miss (Continued from Page 2) Hysterectomy'' of 1953\ Kerr tln a lipstick) and asks Burt if he brought an adding machine along. Lancaster quickly whips out an IBM from beneath his Bikini and gets up to when when . . . they kiss, hungrily, passionately; noth- ing can be heard but the rising and falling crescendo of the waves, the beat of their hearts and the crunch of popcorn from a bleary-eyed bobby soxPr who has not kept her psychic distance. At this point I had to change my Reat bPcause the horns the guy behind me had bern growing since the beginning of the picture were nudging me in the back. They gathered the equipment to- ·pfher. Explosives, detonator and ·he gun, they could not forg-et the ·~un. The gun with the good smell •f the grease and dust and filth. '~oberto thought, \Thou art truly o fine gun, gun of mine. This of lhe gymnasium may prove to be 'IJo much. And what is it for? l~ut it is forbidden to tlilnlc in 'hese terms. I this and that in the Most ho~ses arc ~ow planning to midnight birthday party <both ac- have paJama parties on Saturday ltor·s are appropriately garbPd for night. One freshmaJL was heard the occasion), It is quite a cozy singing, \that's a g:veat idea, I shindig with Lancaster ripping to wish my date and my-self could the comely blind in fine style, stay in our all weEkend.\ One while ·all Miss Kerr has on is the The other love scene involves upperclassman really in the spirit radio. There is a heart breaking Donna Weed, a chesty, fully stack- of the theme sang in a more seri- moment in this affected little in- ed brunette any guy would lo·ve to ous voice, \Why not? Tllat's what cident when Lancaster accuse's De- take a few drags on and Jl.Jonty my date and myself plan on doing.\ borah of infidelity. Miss Kerr, of 1 Clif,t, a wistful foot soldit•r that And so the plans h.ave ben set. the blond hair and twisted tubes, cant seem to forget the days when The relaxed mood has descended swears she is a faithful woman, he was bugler with the Cub Scout and most of the men and women but gives in (she is always giving Pack 199, Brooklyn, New York. arc already quite loe>se. We can in) when Lancaster reminds her Clift's instantaneous conquest of now.e:xpect most of these same stu- that he is not her husband. Lan- Miss Weed is minimized that Donna dents to turn to their- grind Mon- caster pursues his advantage and I portrays a girl that seems about as day with a fresh and renewed asks Deborah how many men she hard to make as one of Betty . •his and that of my thoughts.\ And then they were ready-. All vigor? has had. With teams coming to her (Continued on Page 13)

Page Four Pro-m Ob-Scene Carbone, Rosenfeld Give Last Work Camp Reports NOTES IN KINSEIOLOGY The second and last installment of chapel programs devoted to summer work camps W::J.S presented on Tuesday. Dominic Carbone and Alan Rosenfeld were the featured speakers. ·The· first program o! talks was presented in chapel two weeks before, on Oct. 27. At that time, Hugh Potter, TerrY Goff, and William Kessler outlined the work camp program in general. This Tuesday; however, the I wonder does the coy carnation, . Yielding to tile lusty bee, Feel an inward :palpation For her lost virginity? Does she feel in losing pollen She is fallen? The spider on her poneymoon Displays a love roost passionate, But ends the revel all too soon By eatign 'tler\'astonished mate. \ + speakers t.old of thier own e~cperience this summer. Carbone, the first speaker, went~ · abroad under the sponsorship of: Alan Rosefeld w~ the only worlt YES we have the American Friends Service Corn- camper froDOI Fnion this year who rnittee. :Hhe labored at a work stayed on this continent. His camP in Siderno :Marina, a small camp was in Tlapacoyan in the coJ;OIDUnity Pi Italy, r-un by the state of Vera Cruz, MeXico. \It SGI, which, in English, would be may be hard to pronounce,\ he the Service Civil International. said. \but I'll never forget it.\ His camp's :project was the erec- The project at his camP was one Duofold November t3·, 1951 Proving, though he may not think it: Arnor Vincit. Again, some protoplasmic passion :Assails the amoeba's lonely heart, And in a most romantic fashion, Promptly tears himself apart. Should one ' call this. strange demenia Schi\ophrenia? \SO BIG\ starring Jane Wyman also \THE SUH SHINES BRIGHT\ tion of a schoolhouse. With the of water purification: clearing exception of a professional brick- jungle, digging ditches, a~d \aying layer and an architect, the work pipes. He had a three mile walk; was done entirely by campers. to the project itself. When he left, the work wa'! three Rosenfeld, whose expenses were quarters done. covered by a l]nion scholarship, re- Carbone described the SGI Jlin lated many stories of his experi- he was wearing. \It consists of a ences in Mexico and described the shovel over a broken sword with life of the people. \1 had come ex- the letters \TAX meaning peace, pecting to see a lot of misery,\ he on it.\ stated, \but even I was amazed. ~~ HIA'lTH UNDERWEAR Ginemasc;;ope \I worked eight hours a day 'The MeXicans are small and very under the hot sun, he declared, energetic, doing a fantastic amount \and I lost 14 pounds, but I en- of work each day for 14 Jlesos, joyed it.\ about $1.50. There is a perpetual After a stay at some relative's struggle for existence. You don't house where he gained back some see crying babies; you see dying of the olst poundage, he traveled ba:.bies.\ about Europe, visiting Florence, \The last thing I remember as Munich, Paris,. tWd Venice al'ld the buses left, he pointed out, \was traveling by ~hird class train. the sad looks on my friends' 'faces :Fie ended by hoping that \I've in- as they waved goodbye. I was spired some of orou to apply< -for glad. that they had liked us enough the summer work camp program!' to .be sorry when we left. Warmth without weight- Wool without itch-under· wear's best protection. Sec uatotlay about your J;>uofold. GOLDSTOCK•s 121 :N. Broadway oor. Franklin. \THE ROBE\ with Victor Matura \LILI\ with Lellie Caron anil Mel Ferrer · 0 1so ''BRIGHT ROAD\ Starts Saturday / LE g LO b ME :r MC a MC 1\ FA tl FE y FE PL. 1'1 .PU RE SAJ SU< TH r.ro· VO' w ACJ P' AJ I a A~ S< EAJ CEJ CH. sc CHJ a COl COl in COl in COl ar DEl DEl be DEl CiJ DOll you DOl tel DUI wi ET- ET F.A'I we FEl\i da FE 'I on FlLJ be• FRC G.A.E GEL HE'l pop, IDE: JUS~ LAI' _me .. Co FreiJ visit: Dl: ous sons abou )'

t think passion lonely strange November 1.3, 195~ Page Five Fractured ~1 French Wry&Ginger From Pennsylvania Pennpix I Things We Like to S,plattered · :Spanish He.: Do you neck? I Hear a Girl Say: LE F!.OI VET VEUT - someone 1 She: That's my business. ABARC\.R -- an announcer at the gave Leroy the boot I He.: l't·ufessional, huh? i 1. ~~~dPI~~e b~~v~~e se 1 ~~htJac 0 ~sulnh·~ I cir.cas. LOIN-what you came to college I (•umurdiellNih J o • / to do. 1 \Wh<·H~ ate you from?\ / ~. :;;~ohp\.\n I' t f 'd f tl kCA a Bostonian's automobile. MES-what you cat a! Houston/ \Sm·•·ste;;a Fails, New York.\ .. - d~i-k::: n. m no a 1 \ 1 _ 0 tc/A:\!IST'AD- I missed that. Hall· \Oh one of those jerkwater 1 . · 3 \You don'.t think this h.tthm;; ANT\ES )our uncle,.,· v.·Ives. MOiNE-\ · ., 'th N y. k . towns ll'h•·re everybody goes qut 1 • 1 mme WI a· ew or I to rr.eet the train.\ <\Uit is too ti~ht. do you?\ ATrENiJ'.Ali1ENTE--where people MOYEN ~ \minE>\ with a thick { uueurdit.>nsis 1 5. \No it really doPsn't make any i • accent. I \Train·?\ 1 4. \Let's go dutch.\ 1 liv~. New York accE>nt. ~ 1 Rt•member·, git'ls, it takes a dar·n, diff.-rt·nc•· whether I .g-et back al AYE:R .lVI<\h:e months. PARLER-what the sp_ ider invited I good swi.mmer ~o say \no\ in 1 all tonight.\ 'AYlJ-DAR ?-are you there? the fly into. ~-~ · Venice. 1 .. : 6. \My but I'm cold.:' I . ,, ,, · 1 7. \\V c-ould always move in with BRO~!A -for the day after. PETJ:T -.· what you should do to .. ! . (.oueor. dlt•n,is Y our dog. \How:s your girl?\ my family.\ 1 CASTILLO~ -Abbott's partner. \N d\ ' 1 8. \Yes.\ FEU b h ot so goo · DIEZ-what a week has seven of. -gar age eap. ' \You werp always lucky.\ 1 ('on•·urdi<'n,is PLACE AUX DAMES ladies' I ('uru·urdlensis . . EST A'l1:.--what you see in the sky. room. Prof: Spell \straight.'' I Nurse <_m operatu~g room): \Ha-: LA.Y:EN - ·what couples do when .PUR SANG-lousy music. Pupil in English I: S'T-R-A-1-: Ha, I thmk t-hat JOk~? was very they· pa.rk. . G-H-T. funny, doctor.\ REFAIRE-doped cigarette. Prof: Cor·rect. Now what does Doctor: \Stop making me laugh, MUCHACEO-lots of snecz;es. SANTE-Claus. that mean? nurse. I'm liable to split a g-ut.\ POR-QUE-pig's meat. SUCRE-lollipop. Pupil: Without Ginger Ale. ('onrurdiensis REY' -Penn won. THEATRE DE COUP-drive-in. ('onrordiensis 1 . Li.Jnericks: RINA - place where you wrestle. TOUT'-what trumpet players do. Dinner Guest: \Will you pass the 1 , C b . . 11 th 1 SI-what 'eyes do. \ . nuts, Professor?\ Hunters Iu stones stl r ve h 1 VOTRE - what you get from a·1 p. f b t . d dl ) . \Y· 1 Of Frank Buck who bagged them TAN'TO-Lone Ranger's · e per_ well 10 · 'la sen -mm e Y · es, · · (re~ently deceased) .. · suppose so, but I r·eally should ahve. . . FRENCH INTO ENGLISH flunk them.\ He caught a gonlla TEN<lO-South American dance. ACHET -what Washington chop- I ~ c dl · 1 And mad.e the damned fella TRES'--what grow in Brooklyn. . I . oucor ens 8 AII-Ame ·ca 1905 ped down the cherry tree With. Sympathy is what one girl offers !'I n · A LA BELLE ETOILE - to the, another in exchange for details. There once was an actress named ladies rest room. · Concordiensis · Hucer A SUNT LA'CRI-MOE RmRUM- Whose agents all wished to seduce someone put cream in DlY rum.' Then there's the sultan who kept. her _ . his harem three miles from where The Publi'c went Wl'ld Your H:ead.q ua rte. rs 'for BARBARE:-empty saloon. h ]' d \\-· d h ·t h' · e · Fl'e · ~'-'very ay e sen IS When she had her first child CELA-where you keep ~he coal. ' man-servant to get him a girl. The And now she's become a producer. CHAISE-what you do to catch Sultan lived to be 87 while the someone, ·servant died when he was only 30. MOR.AL: \It's not the women • CHEV:ILLE-what you use to dig that kill you, it's the running after a hole. them.\ COUCHETTE-small couch. COULER-what they put y-ou away in. COUP-what they keep chickens in. COUR-where you :find worms in an apple. DEBARQUER-a watchdog. DEBUT-the north end of a .south- bound mule. · DEJ;lUTER - man who .puts out cigarettes. DOMMAGE -what you do when you hurt something. DOOOE-what you pay your fra- ternity or sorority. DUPER-adje~;~tive commonly- used with Super Suds. Conoeordlensis The ·rnain trouble with the straight-and'-narrow is that there's no place to park. Conoeotdiensls \So you want to kiss me! I didn't think you were that kind.\ \Baby I'm even kinder than that.\ Conoeordiensls If you. think these jokes aren't funny you. should see the ones we didn't print. Gmteordiensis Who ga~e the bride away?\ \Nobody. I could have, but I kept my mout~ shut.\ Concordiensis ET-what you dld this noo:n. ·New W. ICU ET l!OC-it's pawned. F.ATTI PAROLE FEMINEl- fat ·P·fOg.rams·. women on parole. FEMME DE BALLON ~ bubble Water Havenon, wt\)rld renounced dancer. manager of radio station WI.CU, FETE-what you put your shoes the camptts voice, announced today on. that WICU is instituting a serius FILLET-what you do to an empty of new programs designed .:o ap- beer mug. peal to the average morf)n, FROID-psychologist. \- The Irishmen's pollta band will GARCON-Greer's last name. · be heard (providing, of co 1rse, that GELElE-what you put on bread, your radio is turned on~ in a pro- • l\T'T71'PAX LE- -GO'ME•NON _ H gram of chamber m~sJC at four J::L.IlA •• ey A.M. for all late stud1ers on Sun- pop, let go of me now. 1 day morning. They w:i'il carry on IDE1E FIXE-Chinese handy man. until they a.re forcibly r-estrained JUST GEN'TI-UM-men only. or until they- run out of beer. LAIT-what you were to cl\l>ss this One que.stion (Do you?) will be _morning. ' .]Jroad-cast from several campus fraternities this. eveni:ng at a ran- .· Concordy ·Reporter (to visiting dom time. This Will invo!ve Union Frenchman): \And why are you men and their dates and possibly visiting this· country, Duke?\ :the po)ice, Duke: \i: wish to veesit tl::Ie fam~ Havewon. announced tha'· several· ous Mrs. Beach, who had .so many other new programs will be offer- sons in . France during tl::Ie last · ed but you would ha ;r;J to hear about -6.5 on your radio dial.. them to believe it. :S:avewon not• d. Concordlensls that WICO is located precisc!y at Notic~ The ROTC Ball will be held Nov. 13. The ROTC Corps will be· inspected Nov. 17th and ·lath. UNITED CLEANERS will pick up your tired, old uniform 6 o'cloc:k Sunday and return it ' fresh and new, Monday after- noon. Contact our agent in your dorm or fraternily. United Cleaners TAILORS Call4-5676 I 1!1- State St. Shirts ATM. B. GRAUBAJ~T & SONS We Repair o o. Your WATCKE& Your JEWELRY ~ Your SILV.EilWARE Utmost care is taken by skilled worke.-$ to giv_e you every reason T(); be pleased, -Watches and docks cleaned and repaired -New watch cases 1;1nd bands -New watch crystals inserte-d, -Pearls and beads restrung -Jewelry and silver replatecl .. a.ncl repaired

· November ,13,. ·1953 Page Six Sine of. Love I saw her as a most peautiful<$---~-----=--~~-----\\-­ . conglomera.tion Qf ellipses, parab• I was mentally computing the ac~ . alaS,. and sine waves in perfect celeration of mY heart beat to be symmetry as she slithered into the 1:4.7 thumps per second. \Of course living rooni. I sat ·confidently on theY are,\ I aaid, as I thougJ:lt- BY Edw .... Clooo J,, tho ,o!a o>otclrlng <reo body ilia- -\'~R==ti~Ev\' I bad lously wealthy and receives .a grams. I felt the firm pressure ·of learned in EE 711 that a woman Union Men Get Ready For Gridiron Brawls Tonight , aooO<dtug to ngot•\ wo<ldY ''\\''\''of abOUt $1001. h\ thigh againot m!no M oho .-t !a nothing but a ~ow-moving man ouatom, tho annual Gdd~on Bail >WY 21, 1953 at 3 1 30 A.M., tbia \\\\bo.,d• mo. I wrinld jodgo Us w!U> a low\ apocifio hoot on< a ia to tak• plaOo. WbY7 Ono noedo w'\\ !ntmiowod ovocy maio on moduiw of ~\lli\'\ to b• about· high\ \\\\' of g<avicy • • . SM only W \' tho woy a Union man, -pw and Mk<d h\ opinion oJ M3< In-lb. I Jolt hoo w\\\ brentb. might bypnotl>e '\\\ to® with with \' aio of oompl«1o n~ tho ran ,.·om. Tb.a \'\'\ w., in- . (apporo<. 102.4 dog\\ \·' on n>Y h\' '\\'\'\\' atttantio~. but not obRlanoo. ,.unto\ .,.ually about =rlaW \ari\ wbioh m\\\ of obMk ., oh• \\' ·•HaVo I kopt mo-an ENGINEER! . on his h=d• wh= ho fioot ''\biB oou\~ .nothing. It is ~·~ to tb•. you wa<ting too J<>ng, \\\M?\ I ob~o.-d M? ooldlY (li<.1 do· dat• ln trumootl '\' gOWU 1 \' too- opon minded oh'\'\\' that thlo iB a \Ohly 3< ~inuto• ~d 16.2 oooondo,\ \''\ F.). Sbo loan<d ovoo mo =d mal, to know tbAt h< I• unaffootod otll@ng -dom=tiou of tho out- I ,·opllod \ I oubooMolo\'Y .,u- ki~od roo llgbtly-I glon\d down bY it alL At thO foatoon1ty pru<y, datod poo~ mated \\ tonollo ,toon&th of hO? at my )apol oncy ta ,.. a molten tho woy his ooll~ button <ndiff<~ If this antiq=t•d o$tom is al- owontoo to bo at ''\\' <000 poi. 'm\\ lhnt bad oure '\\ my Foa· ®tiY molt. with h~dly • tono• of lowod to go on it w!ll mMn, =• I Sho ,au bOO \\ h=d thoough · torniiy pin. Slio w•tohod In M- '\\· \bo =d bio dat• oit =• · • · MY this with oomplote JaOk ol f•\' my halo (goueoatin< ,.mo 3 x,>O ,ru,.tton \ l 0 oM~llY put th• tnlk, lo =ol• ~idouoo of his \\ of oontoadiotion, that ooclal lifo nt otatooul=b•l and =k•d \What\ J>ghtod ond of my mgorotto m mY concern. The way he, ,a non- Union will continue in much the did you ·bring tor me?\ as she mouth and bleW the smoke from drinker, sips a fifth of Scotch- ·t b · 11 t b t t sarne rut that 1 bas · een lD a · eyed the long object in my pan s e ween my oes. otm!ght, in o oofinod and dlgo!liod th\' Y\\'· \\\pt roo 0 tow pook<t ... \Oh I oaid quickly, . , . I ''\' with a m.,~lln• \\ manner, lends further credence to. hund 1 ·ed of the unenligJ:ltened, no \that's not for you, that's my slide of indifference and lltalked from one wants this to hap.pen. rule,\ I withdrew it and drarn.a- the roorn o~ my hands .. m~M nothing at all to blm. An anti-pOOm oommitt\ '\\ tioal!y and odoptlY fll<k•d th• .,h <Tak.n fooin tho Cl~kron '\ncin- my hypothesis X that the prom Tbo avooage Union =n would b- to=•• and will bold ito Ji~t toom boo -· with tho alid• ·~atoo\ . whioh took it loom tb< <Oth\ go to a atimWating ~clu\ mo•tin< oon=oontli w!th tho \A?• all ongin-• \' ,wng, oatm, Syoaou•ian, wbloh probablY atolo on sooho-Cooatlan \'t \ • toav- poom All ••tolltgont Unlon \''\ and\\\\\' w you ,..., zouos?\ it trom aom~h\' •\\·' elogue of the Gobi desert than a will probably attend, and I would prorn at whi!lh nothing is learned. certainlY be there too if . I could . He only attends a function such as make it. WhY can't I make it? the prom because of his devotion I thought you'd never ask, I'rn. to the ROT Corps or simply be- goi:ng to the prom with everyone cause be has too much money and else. wants to get rid of a feW dollars The Prom must go . . . after I (the average Union man is fabu- graduate. Today's Smile--Tomorrow's Grief \It's okay that you have 69 cuts; We won't hold it against you.\ -C.W.H. * * * Nifty Not]lings Little Miss :Muffet · Sat on a tuffett Eating her· curds and wiley. Along came a spider And sat down beside her And gave her a tartan scarf. Psa}ms to The Prom To A Pledge Pin Wither thou goest I will go; and where thou Jodgest I will lodge; thy m.ovem:ents shall be roy move~\ men.ts and thy fate roy fate. Due need of punishment the actives , give me and more than due, if aught but death part thee and me. . . The First Prom * * No plaid at all No plaid at all She went with a .lad Who had no' a plaid. Get Yours this Weeltend!- At the bookstore $3.50. JAMBS Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford Booth .and Fountain S~rvice 426 State Street • The prom is my downfall; I shall not sleep. It leacJ.eth rrte tQ bed with a headache; it lealleih rn.~ to exhaustion. It reduceth my bank a~count; <t leadeth me to father's wn.llet for L G. BALFOUR 00. a loan's sake. Yea, though I dance with my ROTC shoes on, I will fear no bunyons: for Dr. Scholl's art with roe; his corn plasters and his foot pads, they comfort me. My fraternity preparest a drink before roe in the presence Jf mine girl friend: it annointeth mY mouth with beer; my m;lg Fraternity Jewelers BADGES-RINGS-FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY- PROGRAMS CLUB PlNS ~ KEYS MEDi\LS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN ' J TOUGH, lONG-WElRlNG PlASTIC SOlES Extremely fast and durab\e ..• Withstands great temperature changes \Easiest in the woHd to ski on,\ says Hannes Schmid,* famous i1;1teroational s.tar. \Spalding is leading the field in quality . and workmanship.\ Other Spalding features: Patented inter- locking edge construction with offset screw holes. Shock-absorbing tip and tail section. See the big 1954 Spalding Ski Parade at your favorite ski shop...,. Top-Flite, Continental, Air-Flite and many more in a complete range of prices. *meniber Spalding advisory staff SPALDING SETS THE PACE IN SKIING get your copy .... . ·~How to Care for Your Skis'• contains helpful hints on .skiing exercises, waxing instructions and ~ki etiquette. Address Dopt23- spilleth over. Surely parents and chaperones · · shall follow me all the days of my life; but I will remember this weekend forever. SO Murri!.yAve., Waterford, N.Y.· PHONE TROY~ADAMS ~laS A. G. $PA~DING & BROS, INC, Chicopee, Milos. ·s Afl tady once Curv: may ever end c 52 c speci \FrOJ of tl fougl irons or ,tl:i lodge Arist as V1 yoke some Tarta Haus Judsc 'DeFr .Adler Josep Lehn :Loffr DeloiJ Merri ( l

be rae a not de~ and Fra- ad~ the my from e air from the stole ' ' ,I; November 13,, J953 Page Seven ''To· Thine Own Self Be True\ , ' DELTA 'PHI ·skidmore Belles Lead ; Jud,ge ........................ Doris Amann ................... Gloversville 'Hartmann ................. Ellen Lomb ...................... Skidmore , Conklin .... · .............. Mary Ann Bier ...... 'Trenton State Teachers After a short taste •C>f Schenec~~ ·;Kahn · · · · · · · · · · · · ·• · · ...... Lyn Lynch ....... ·· .. ·········'\ .. ···. Troy tady pulchritud!;!, Union men are. , Wheeler · · · · · · · · · · · · · ... Joan V.anBumble ... · · ··· · · · · · · · · · Binghamton But the middle class wi!1 not en- Withers · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ... Rox Ann Wombat: ... · .. · ............... Cohoes once again· returning to Slddmore~s. tirely be forgotten as 43 .Schenec- .Pickens ............. ·Betsy Mackeisterbiester· ......... Audubon, N. J. Curve:;;, however artificial .they · : B?Hinger . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... Virginia Rail. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore may be. More Union men than· tady girls will go home to momma Gidley · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... Trenna Wicks ..... ··.·········. Russell Sage after each night's activities to tell, Fi~her J d c New York N Y ever will bite the dust this week-, ~ · · · · .. ,. ··· · · · · · · ..... u y onover ..... · · · · · · · · ' · • momma what momma never told Penny · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... Eleanor Ahlf ........ , . . . . . . Hofstra College end on the Saratoga road as some them. , Zumbach ................. Kay Westgate .................. Binghamton ·52 of Skid-town's m()st ·willing, ,MuHee ................... Joan Underwood .... · ............. Scheenctady specimen make the short hop As is customary, the young worn- Dana . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... Sally O'Brien. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Binghamton \From Here to Infamy.\ Not all .en who will adorn our campus this Wurster · · · · · ··· · · ···· ..... Barbara Bradt ..... ···· • · ·· .. ···.Schenectady ' k .· '. Sikora ............ ~-. . Joan· Wod ... ke .. . . . . .. .. . . . Ballston Spa of the weekend~s battles will be wee end come from far and wide · · · · · · · '\ · · · · · ' h . . . . ·: F~uikner .... ··· .... · ... Betty Jane George ................ Schenectady fought on Littl~ Ivy League gi!id- For t e third straight tnne, two, Hix ........................ Janet 'Sloan ................... Scheenctady irons; some 18 bpuses, minus two young ladies from Nassau, British Kimmel ...... · .. · · · .. · ....... Ann King ........... · ......... Binghamton or ,three shacks, plus one hunting West Indies win the prize for' Hai?ing · · · · · · · · · ~ · · · ,• ..... Nan~y Ludl~ .... · · · · · · · · · · Danbury,_ Conn. lodge will house over 390 visitors. having traveJtd the farthest 1 to· Whitman · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·Gracia Parkhill. · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · Skidmore Aristocracy will rneet its j~st fate reach us. Stateside honors go to 1 BET A THETA p,l as Vassar, Wellesley and Mt. Hoi- a miss, from the University of yoke girls come face to face with Kansas, who will adorn the Phi; Bishop ...................•.. Jane Garcia ...................... ,. N.Y. C. some of New York's commonest. Delt House. : Umbeen .................... Jean Taylor .•................• Russell Sage BETA ETA UPSILON Sandles ................... Jane Mackey .............. Lasell Jr. College • Round ................... Connie Quebec ............ Lasel! Jr. College McCabe ............. , ...... Joan Newman ............ Albany State Pen Tartaglia- .... ·•· .. · ....... Shirley Caswell ........... Mt .. Sinai Hospital McCabe ................ Beverly Wormley ..................... Cornell Hauser ··• ·· · · · ·· .. ··· .... .Annette Goldstein ................. c. c. N. Y. Larson .................. Marianna Cio\ppa ................. Schenectady Judson · · ·· · · .. · ............. Lu Louis ................. Albany Hospital' Clark ...................... Niltki Loehr ..... ~- ........... Albany State 'DeFreest ·· ·· ...... ··· ···'\·.Sue Liddy .................. Ellnira College Floyd .................... Marcia Trainor ................. Russell Sage Adler · · · · .. · · · · .. · · · · · .... Mary Manning... . . . . . . . • .. . . Elmira College Schappert ................ Mim Stewart. .. .. . .. .. • .. . . Emerson, N. J. Josephson \· .. · · .. · .. · .. -.'Marilyn Brown ............. , ... Russell Sage Van Patten ......... , ..... Joyce Would ....................... Syracuse Lehrer · · · · • .. • · .. · · · .... · .. Paula Segal. ................... Brandeis U. Muddle ................... Loraine. Urban .................. Schenectady I.offredo · ·• · • • · ·,·······Mary Wallingford ...... Manhattan'Ville College .Greenough ................. Jane Garcia ....................... N. Y. C. Delong · · · • ·' • • • .. • .. ~ ... ·.·Joan Morris ........ ·J')·...... . . Scheenctady Seeley ........... • ............ Dagmar ....... 0 .. .. . .. . . . . . . .. .. N. Y. C. Merrill . • · · • · · • • • • · · · · • · ... Zada Petersen ......... ! . . . . . . . . • . Rochester :Boote ............•............ Eppie. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • Schenectady HAPPY FRIDAY \'THE 13tlt -.. .The .Staff e Watches, Jewelry Cl~b Repaired • Engravirrg, toool Jay Jewe.lry Ca. Stato a11d .Broadw~y \Dirty Bucks\ not White, not Gra,y, not Tan, but 'in-between 13.95 uDirty Bucks\ Step into Dirty Bucks ... step out in style! Here's Freeman Buck{t its newest ... the same smooth wonderful k:nock~about leather .• , but pre· conditioned to give it that nonchalant \Been-around\ look right off the bat! • bsa FREEMAN Klzoe NUSBAUM'S The Nation's Leading Brands For Men and Boys 447!451 STATE ST. • •

Page Eight November 13, '1953, DELTA UPSILON PHI DELTA THETA Abe .. , .................... Sue Cheque!' .................. , . Schenectady Michalsky .. , ........... Katie Kronmiller.... . , .. , . . . . . . . Rochester U. Snower ................ Frances Kantorski ....... Albany Bus. College Huntington ......... , .... Marilyn Smith ... · .............. Cortland State Moon ..................... .Ann Tibodeau .. : . ............... Glens Falls· Elngkvist ............•.. , ... Fran Adams, ..•........... , . . . . . Plattsburg Ern ....................... Elaine Rogers ............ , . . . . . . . Bay Shore Hansen . , ............. , . Carol Ogonowski ................ ,'. . . . . Cornell Sieb .. , .................... Ann stickel .............. , ... Ithaca College ·Bower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... Diane Johno:;oti.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . U. V. M. Duke ................ , .... Coleen Ginac .................. Schenectady Ferguson ................. Louise Mu1ent., ....... , .. , ... ~ ... Wheaton At ....................... Dolores Cudney ............... Va.ll~y Stream Caye , ............... , ..... Barbara M_ay, ........ , .... , , Elmira College Dirty ..................... Lyn O'Connor .................. Schenectady Wod<J,rzak ..... , ............ Doris Matzke ........ ,, ......... Russell Sage Heap .: . .................... Janice Euler ............. , ..... Schenectady Klingberg .................. Alice Miles ....................... Skidmore Leroy ...................... Pat Temple ...................... Sltidmore Sheffield .................... Jean Fish ... , ................... Cobleskill Luclty .................. , . , Linda Gerald. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bay Shore Brady .............. , .... Barbara Cl'emens .... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Albany. Black .................... Qa\ole Cantore .......... Syracuse University Campione ................ Elaine Hogut ........ , .. , . . . . . . . . . . . Albany Hop ..•................... Eleanor Gardner .......... Springfield CoHere Wilkinson ................... Jay Star. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Stinlty ......... ; ........ Sally Sl:J.epherdson ..•. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . S!{idmore Me Sweeny ............... Carol Asl}down. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ellis Dipper .................... Jane H0lmes .... - . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Richart~ ..... , . , ... , ., , .... Nancy Ry-on ......... ,............ Sk·idmore Doug .................... Margaret Angus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Manhasset Reinhold . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... Carol Schaaf. . . . . . . , ........ ·. . . . . . Teaneck Speed .................... , . Joan Dill ian ..... .\. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Watervliet ·Buddenhagen .... , ....... Susan Danford. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kingston Buttons .. •· .............. Marge Revenue.···. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Timbuctoo Rooney .................. Barbara Hutton ....... St. Luke's Hosp. NYC ·Kilroy ........................ Corky .. ······· ................. Campus Hutton ................. , ... Ray House .................... Albany State Dick ..................... Sandr.a Scanlon ................... Bay Shol\e Gatje ....................... Sis Shand ......... , ............ Patchogue BPP Jay .................. Ann Reardon ...... , .......... Albany State Hancock ................. Nancy Coffman ....................... Buffalo Goom ...................... Mrs. Goom ................... Just Married Saddlemke ............. Evelyn Saddlemire ...................... Home Shadow ................. Mat·ion Waterfield ............... Just Engaged Deuel!' ....................... Liz Jay ........................ Skidmore Charlie .................... Diane Woods .................. Just Pinned Zeph ...................... Ann \lta:kovlev ...... ,.............. Skidmore Jack .................... Ann Marie Forsell ................... Skidmore Mellor .................. Barbara ~arbonL ............. .,.. Albanv State Rull'lpelstiltsltin .......... Joan Schultz .. ···· .... · ........ Schenectady Lang ..................... -Bette Dtcks0n ................. Russell Sage Whimpel\ ................. Sue Nickerson .... · .... Edgewood Parle J. C. M-urphy .................. Marilyn House ....................... Albany Mickey ........................ Velda .... · ....... • ...... New York City Lang ................ , .... Sheila Murray .......................... Troy Tex ...................... Bunny Rugane ... · .............. Middletown De :;;antis ........... , .... Grace Naparty .................. SchPnectady Bill ........................ Jean Lyons ................. Boston, Mass. Woodley ............ ~ .. Karen Gerstenzang ............... Russ0l! Sage Sol ........................... Lucky........................ Normandy Bur_ns .................... Pe~gy Donnelly ... 0 .................... Albany Bones ...................... Micro Mho .............. · .......... R. C. A. Spetdel .................... Sbuley Spetdel ....... · ............ Kansas U. Sass ...................... Early Hours ...................... :. . . . Ellis Parle ....................... Liz Usher. 1 • • • • • • • • • • TobecCoburn College KAPPA SIGMA SIGMA CHI JV[und ..................... Nancy Goggin .................. Mt. Holyoke Srull ....................... Pat Horan .................... Russell Sage Balter .................... Terry Richards ................. Mt. Holyoke' Cox ...................... Barbara Burke .................... BronxvjJ!e Murphy ....... .' ........... Linda Pratt... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sl{idmore Staab ........ / ........... Ruth Heanisch .................... U. of Mass. Panariello ................. Janet Ferrjs ................... Schenectady Prosper .................. Joan Langlois ........... · ..... St. Lawrence Glennon ................... Anita Morin ................... Ticonderoga Mola ...................... Ellen Cowell . .. .. .. Schenectady •Slaughter ................ Barbara Clark .................... Skidmore Erwin .................... Joanne Sours..................... Skidmot'e I .strickland ............... Ophelia Rassole ................... Tarrytown McDermott ............. Phyllis Millevold ................ U. of Buffalo I Tennant .................. Julie Beaudry ......................... ·Wells B<:>rker ............ , ......... Pat Miller ............... · Englewood, N. J. Simon ..................... Helen Wahl. ...................... St. Rose Davis ..................... Barbara Peck ..... - ...... BaJa Cynwyd, Pa. Medei ..... , .............. Bobbie Sabatini. ................ SchPnPctady Urban ...................... Terri Rossi. .................. Schenectady Goff ..................... Joyce McDowell ................. Schenectady Black .................... J;'eg Dickinson .............. ·Union University Shay ................ -.t .... Arlene Reed ......................... Albany Cohan .................... ~iane Berry ........ · ...... ·.· ... The Sticks Collins ................... Joan Rumplich ........... Brightwaters, L. I. 'Groff ..................... Joan Vrooman ...... ··· .... ·.·· ....... Cornell Morris , ........ , ...... , .... Alice Elder ............ Brightwaters, L. I. Coward ................. Ann Van Dycke .. , .... , .... Union University I Grosky ................... Q.loria Roberts ...... ,,.,, ... , ........ Cohoes Seholm ............ : . ...... Barbara Marr ....... · .. · ...... New Rochelle' Castrucci ................. Marge Davis ................ Oneonta State Mauro .................. Gladys Liberatore .... ·· ... · .. ; ... Russell Sage Rhoades ................. .' .. Donna Reed ....................... Campbell Hanshoe ................. June Cummings ..... ····· .. ·· ... Quaker Street Moxham ................. Corrine ,Valenti. ............... Albany State Rabasca . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ... Martha Hosier ............... : Oneonta State Carbone ................. Elinor Loesche ... , .... , . . . . . .. . Syracuse U. Kilpatrick ............... Virginia Barn~s ............. · ... Russell Sage Fink ................... Marion Langenbach ................... 0 st. Rose Dellwardt ................. .Jean Talewskl. ..... · · · · ·. · .... · Albany St~te Hall ....................... Betty Cowell... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn Derby ...................... Pat Brown ..... · .. · ... ·.·· ........ Keesvtlle Rielly .................... Terry' Scopellito ........ , ,, .......... Brooklyn Toomojian ............ Terry Van Derverken .. · · · · · · · · · .......... · Troy Clary ..................... , .Merle Clary ............ Dutchman's Village Traina ................... Elaine Diamond.·· .. ··· ... ··... Poughkeepsie Canale .................... Lynn Canale ............ Dutchman's Village Sutka .................... Evelyn Murray .......... · ..• · Cortland State Harned ................... Carol Stampf ............ FloraJ Park, L. r. Read ..................... :Zelda Stevens ..... ·.·· ....... Geneseo State Banker ..............• Bernadina Chirichella .•...•... , •..... New Pa:ltz Vl''hiskey ................... Witherspoon ....... ; ............. Sigma Phi· Konys ................. Barbara Humpht;ey ............... Schenectady Schminke .................. Ann Baker ....... · ... ·· ..... Geneseo State Sokaris ............. , ... Mary Lou Capola ..................... Ravena Johnston .................. Ann Stevens ........ Binghamton Sch. Nurs. Noonan ............... , .... Joan Jarvis .. , .............. ·.· ...... .Albany Gebhardt ................. Jean Rucker ......... ··· ....... Scheenctady Cambigue ............ .- .... Carol Owens, .......... , ......... Plattsburg Hermann .................. Lo~ Lavert~ ... , ·, ... · · ........ Schenectady Mugler ................. Nancy Ellen Niles ..... , .......... Schenectady Waldron ................ Conme Hutchms. '- · · .... · · ..... Schencetady Downing ................. Jean Van Slate ................... Plattsburg Cronin .............. · ..... Joanne.Lane. ·. • · · · · · • · · · · ·. Cortland State McDonnough ......... , ... Janette Brown .................... Irvington· Stoole ... , , •.... : .. · · · .... Phoebe Feesees- ... -· · .... · .... ·.. . . Dungton O'Connor .•. , ..• , .......... Jenny Hofman, ......... , .• Smoke Rise, N. J. Harp .................... Barbara Dunbar ........................ Utica Loffredo .................. Joan Nejman ............ , ........... Albany Mason .................... Barbara Hunt .................. Russell Sage·,Horn .................... Rhonda Moore ..................... Oneonta. Allen .. , ..................... Sally Hall.·· ....... -.·· .. · ..... Syracuse U. Ragusa ................ Carol Anne Holden .................. Wellesley PHI SIGMA DELTA ro:w?s ...................... Pa:t Bomer ................ _.\· .... Po_rt E-~ven. Wllllams .. , •..•......... Phyllis Mossberg ..•.. ,\ .. Mmneapo!ls, Mmn. Edinger .................. Janet Savage ...................... Kingston Magliato .. · .....•... , ... Rosita Pizzanelli. . . .. . . . . .. . .. .. . . . . Marlboro Zervas ................. , •. Dol'is DuPree ..................... Johnstown Woolf ..................... Lynn Reichart ....................... N.Y. U. Silver ...................... Liz Scharps ........ · ............. Skidmore Cohen ..................... Terry Cohen ..................... C. C. N. Y. Richter .. , ... , .......... Gladys Liberman ... , · ....... ·....... Columbia Yudis ...................... Judy Berger ................... Russell Sage· Gertzog ....... , ... ;, ...... Sue Schwartz ... , ....... , ..... , .. , .. N. Y. U. Weiner .. , .. , ............. Margie Beck .... , ................ Bennington Hopkins ................... Betsy Balch .... , ...... ,,.· ... Wells College Gitlin ..................... Terry Kessler .......... · ....... Albany State Tucker ....... , ........... , Gracia Norbeck ............ Skidmore College SIGMA PHI Clayton ... , .............. Marge Faeder ..... · .... :~ ......... Skidmore Kidd .. , , . , ...... , ........ Bridget Griffin ................. , ..... Albany Brenner ................... Lelia Segal. ....... ·., ........... Skidmore Geruso ... , .... , ......... Charlotte Stanton ............... Buffalo State ·Zutty ...................... Candy Berg ....................... Skidmore Gray ...................... Susan Wagner .... : ................ Sll;idmore Greene ............... , .... Afice Dvorkin .......... · ..... New York City Rathjen .................... Judy Green .............. Boston University Chartoff ................. Bar bar!} Cooper ...................... N. Y. U. Swearingen ..... · .......... Anne Miller ........... , . . . . . Cortland State Robbins ........ · ........ Joan Benninger .................... Skidmore Angell ............ ~ ...... Pat Muchmore ....................... Albany Barandis .................. Natalie Cohen .................. Russell Sage Frederick .......... ,. .... Shirley Putman .• · .. , .......•......... Albany Rosenfeld .................. Ina Hess .................. , . . . . Skidmore Durbeck .............. , .Barbara Schrauth ............ Skidmore College <::ilbert ..................... Joan Slater .................. '> Russell Sage' Menzel ........ , .. , ...... Sandra Cr!'ldduck ................ Albany State Klein ............ · ......... Sue Berber ... , ............. Conn. College Olsen .............. , ...... Pat Kennedy ...... ,.,.; .............. Albany Propp .... , .......... ·• ... Ann Rosenthal:, ..................... Vassa:1· Hodges ............... · ....... Pat Kaine ................ St. Rose College Bernstein ................. Billie Levitan ....................... Barnard Trask ...................... Eloise Hills ......... , .... Skidmore College Katz .. , ................... Carole Blake ..................... New York Allen .................... Anne Arvantides ... ; ........ , .. Albany State Kessler .......... · ... ·· .. Annie Schneierson ............. , .. Russell Sage Likewise ..............• , .. Peggy Taylor .............. Albany Hospital Hollinger .................. Bette Warm .................... Mt. Vernon Baum ..................... Joyce Gouger ... ,.·'· ................. Scotia. Goldstoclt ................. Roslyn Gilbert ............ ·· ..... Scheenctady Hayes .................... Terry Hilleboe ................ Bouve Boston Chesler ........... • · · .... Reba Tanenhaus ......... , .• S. Orange, N. J. Hart .................... Carla Pepperman ...•.....•. Skidmore College Mindell ........... · ....... Judy Pravda ........ · .......... SchenectadY. Schuh ..................... Pat Kaiser ............ : ..•. Ellis Hospiti1l Saddock ......... · · ··., .•.. Julie Russel. .. , .•..... - ........ Bennington Schmidt ....•..• , ......... Dplores Brooks ............. Scarsdale, l'f, Y. Beck .... , ................ Diane Hyman ..... ·· .............. Skidmore Walker .................. Peggy Plassman ............. SCiarsdale, N. Y. Dubinett ................. Mrs, Dubinett ...... , •....•..... Schenectady Baller .................... Joan Chapman ....................... Albany 'I' r i l l l in~ ( ' i~l

u. a ton . bany. more Ellis gston NYC State Home more State Sage Troy ectady 1 Sage U. more . \wells Rose llPCtaQy AlbanY L. I. L. I. Cohoes State bell State U. St. Rose s Village s Village L. I. P:i:ltz . Ravena . Albany Irvington· N. J . .. Albany Oneonta. Wellesley EweiL olis, Minn. KingstoiL Marlbo;>ro Johnstown College ore College ... Albany State . S~idmore University St~te .... Albany Albany College Sta.te .... Albany College C<>llege State Hospital ...... Scotia. Boston College Hospitill N. Y. N·. Y. Albany 'Page 'Nine Union's Passing Parade The l\lpth Menace . One of Bob Swart's Pictu-res ~.~ ' ·Worth a ThQusand Chuckles ,, Bob Swart, clas of '54,. is to the Concordicnsis \Vhat Charles ••• 'By Franz Kafka. \As Gregor Samsa ing from a troubled dream • , • \ See You Tonight at +he M.oth .Ball! The Age of Decision ~ Picking a d'ate for this shindi9 was often a \trying'' exper- - ience, In the .Orange -- ._ORAH~E ;J.UJC£....-..~.- - - ---- .r Only the color has been changed to avoid investigation. Adams is to the New Yo1•ker. For purposes of ·identification, B<ib is President of Delta Chi, and rides around\campus on ~~ sllg·btly used motOI'Cycle, as well as ·being Art Editor of the Concord·y. He set•ms to possess a strangp gpnius for hitting the nail on the head, weelt after week. His cartoons on these pages pretty well sum up a half semeste1· at Union beside the Mohawk Vale. West College Cakewalk L :Jlif.CE: . 1'30(• -~· '~ -- .... '---~ The Freshmen didn't feel that they were getting the best of all West. College. \Swat\ captures the feeling rather well. The Shaft Ordeal at High Noon •

Page Ten November 13, 1953 I, KAPPA NU PHI' GAMMA DELTA Tofel, R. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ,. . Carol Collins .................... , ., Skidmore ·Case .. , ............ , ........ Gloria Con·ani:., . , ............ , . : ... Schenectady Schwartz ............•..... Joan Sh:l.:fter. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . • . . . . N, Y. U. Ferguson .......... , ......... Peggy ]\i[oshQr- ................... , • .. . Schenectady- . Beller ........... , ........ Rita Fro:rnmer ...... \ .... ·. . . . . 0swego ·state Fitzgerald . , ............. Roberta Reav:y. . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . Poughkeeps(e Gold ....... , .........•...... Ricki ·Roth ....... ·.,··, ........•. Skidmore Trabasso ................ Lillian ·Di:M:aso .• .,, ..... , . . . . . . . Poughkeepsie Silver ................... Ruth Finkelstein ................ 'Russell ·sage Wendin ................... Elinor Schulz:: .................. Williamsville Mann ..............•.... , Selma Da.-vidson ...... · .. · · · · · . · · · · · · · J~ckson Scott .... , ........ , ...... Nancy Hoffxna.il·, . ,.: ............ , . Schenectady- Schlein ................... Rita Gra.bino ......... ·· · · · ... ··· · Skidmore coulter .................... Elinor .Gray ...... ''\@'. Moose Pass, Alas~a. Lewis , .......... : . ........ Betty Krasne .. · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · Mt. Holyoke Fitzgerald .... , ....... , .... Jo~n Pierson ............... , New: York Clty- Shoobe , , ................. Sheila Gol'll.ner ..... · · .............. Simmons McKibben .. , . , .. , ........... K1tty Lake· ........ , ........ Lawmg, Alaska. Fox ..................... Norma B])enner ...... ·............... Queens Farnum ...... , .. , ... , .... Ardly~ .A!nthony., •. , . , ...... , .... , Schenectady- Boris ................... Barb.ara Shatzberg .............. : Russell Sage. Meyer ........ ; .......... Cin.dy\ GL\abi_cki'.. , ... , ..... , .. , , , Schenectady- Babbin .. , ............... Elayne Montrose ................ Russell Sage Herman ................... Shirley Sin1tb ... , , ... ... . . . . . . . Boston, ~ass. Gilbert .................... Norma Ritter .................. Albany State Lard .................. Barbara M:cCa11ley- .......... Plattsburg ·state Stein .... , ................. Judy KraiUer · · · · · · · · · ··· · · · · · · · Nt. Holyoke · Mizeran ...... , .. , ....... : .. Yvonne Leek,,, .............. , ... ~. ... . Hud~:;on Fallowes ................ Frankie ~ar.-golis ............. , .. Russell Sage, Vendetti· .................... Sue Bullis .............. NewHaven, Conn. Stark .... , ........ , ...... Barbara Heckman .. - ............ Russell, Sa~e LaGrange ........... , , ... RutP, Jordan,,~ .. , . , ....... , ... , Schenecta.djr Guston , .................. Sheila Eclthaus. · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · B~andeis Haeffner . , ... , .. , .. , , .. Virginia. Bateholtz:,, . , .......... , ........ Ushers Berley ................... Ly~ R~senfeld .... · · · · · · .. · · · ·; .. • · Skidmore Ziac , , , ... , ..... , ..... , , ... Del Acatess·en .... , ............ , A!bany State Levine ..... • .... · .. · ·· · · · · Lms G1nsbu!\g · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Russel_! Sage. Gansmuller , .............. Car lie I-I:eisler , ..• , . . , . . . . . . . . . . . Schenecta.dy- Meyer ..................... Margot Ca.hn.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . Sk~dmore Howard .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Elle Sr;ago · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ' · · · · ' Sk~dmore TH·ETA D ELT A CHI Hirshern .......... . 0 ..... . Harriet Raye ..................... Skidmore · · ·. ' .. :i'l: · · · ' Levy ............ , ........... Lois Satin ........ , .......... Russell Sage ·Morris .. : .. , ............. , .Jinni.,; Streit.,, .. ..... .. . . .. . . . .. .. . Oneonta. Halpern ................. Janet Bernstein .......... Perth Amboy, N.J. Smith ...................... Shiela La-w •. , .... , ....... Albany Nursing- Forwand .................. Diane '(]'g-et> .... , . . .. . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . . Bronx Vilnar , .. , .... , . . . . .. , .•.. , .. Enid Bre-w. ,., • .. .. . .. . . . . Albany :Nu~sing- Dolgoff ................. Phyliss Greenwald ..................... · .. Troy Koch .................... Alyce Burg-es()n· ...................... Oneonta Shapiro ................... Irma Gorclon ................... Russell Sage Dunbar ................... Louise No'c!ian ................... .Schenectady: Albert ....... , , .......... Sandy Ca.ssileth ................ -Russell Sage Winegard ............. , .... Jane Vogel\ ................ U. of Rochester Greenspan .............. Marcia Meiselman ............... · Alban:'( State Braen ................ , .... ,Judy Willoo.. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Binghamtol). Sharf ........... , ......... Ellin Rudrna.n ...................... Slndmo~e ·Miller .................... Bertha Ha.:!'f.is· ............... , . . . . . . Oneonta Tafel, J .................... Mrs. Tofel. ..... , ............ Poughkeepsie Morgan .. , . , .............. Avery Russel. .• ,., ..•. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vassar Veyhl . , .................. Madeline Bt>-vine ... , . , . , ...... Kelly's Corners PHI SIGMA KAPPA Patterson ....... ~ .. \\\.Arlene Whitaur, ...................... Morris i \ I i F . ld vo h 's ille Jester ................... Beatrice Wa.dttle. . .. .. • .. . .. .. .. . Fish's Eddy- Tubbs ................... Joan Itzgera . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. or ee v. Hawkes ~- ................ Mary Fitz:gerald., ........ '...... Voorheesville Swayze ................... Dot Newman ............... Brooklyn, N.Y. Garrett .......... · ...... Phoebe Newman .............. Broo:klyn, N. Y. Robedee ................. Mary Pang-alos .... · · · · · · .. · · · · · ··· .. N. Y. ~· Haas ........... · · · · · ...... Dolly S:mith ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · ·Scotia Enzien ........... ·. · · · .. Rosemary :Riccardi. . · · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · St. Rose Mastrianni ........ · · .... Joyce Burwash ..... · · · · · · · · · · · Albany State Ross ........... · · · · · .... Hallett Betllei..,., · · · ·······.Boonton, N. J, Welch ........... ·. · ·, .~ .An'ita Teterznan .. , .· ... · ... · · · ... Schenectady Tower ..................... June Tow·et> ...... · ....... '!' .... Schenectady Meyer ................... Shirley H:arnon .......... , ...... Albany State Smolens ............ · .... Barbara Maaloe ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · Albany State Gross .... : ................ Alice Pa.lzner. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Glens Falls Martin .............. ~ , .. Roberta Whaley ........ · · . . .. .. :S:udson Falls Montgomery ......... : ... , .Joan Hogan .......... · .... · ·.... .. St. Rose Pavkovich .............. , , .. Jo Stopa ....... , ..... · ....... Albany State Page ................ , ... Kathv R.isj:;ein ............... :. Albany State Otis .. , ....... , ....... , ... , ... Paula .• , .. , .. , . . Mountain Lakes, N. J. Hoffman .................. Liz Becker. .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. Albany State Hoffman ................ Ellie Bassman .... , ............ Albany State Richards ............... Duckie Richards ................. Schenectady Landreth .................. Kay Boese. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Indianapolis, Ind. Mesal.'d .................... Nora a.Json .................... Albany, N. Y. PSI· UPSILON Hebenstreit ............ ,.'!.Maxine .Ailep_., .... , .. , ........ Russell Sa.ge Helm ................•••. Edith Titterton. . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . Albany State Pirnie .................. Mary Lou Walsh .......... , ...... Marymount Beuth ...... : .............. Betty Beu.th ................... Schen_ectady MacDonald .......... , ... Barbara McBI'ide... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Coons .................... Kitty Va:il:Vliet ................. Germantown Ne'l ·, ....... l;'lue Liss ........... , ......... •.. Schenectady d'~o~~~i1'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.' ..... ~t;Y' McCartney ..... , ...... .Albany Ph~rrnacy Havill ........ , .. , .. ,.,. ..... Sandy Shaw ... , . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Bodine ..... , ....... , ......... Jody Vial ..................... Russell Sage Kesterke , ....... , ...... , .... Shirle~ Cur-ran, . , . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fulton Willetts .... , , ............ PatreCia Healy. . .. • . . . .. . . . . . .. .. Larchmont Sevde( .................... :Ma.ry Ha,svvel1, .......................... , Troy P · 1 •••••. Lynn Waxd- .. 7 • .., .................. Welock a mer . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . i \'\ , R 11 S mmann ................... Mar on .,~n~t .. ·.. ... ... .. .... . . usse , age B t .... Jane Ha.rnilt()n,. ,.. . ... . . . . . ... . . . . . . Skidmore N orstra·n·d· · · · · · · · .. · · · · ..... Irmy Ka.uppe.xt ................. Russell Sage ors · · · · · · · · · · · · · w t k Sch ctad\ J .... Dor1s ~a z ·e .......... :....... .ene .' ones · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · N · Skidmoreo Corrigan ............ '..... ancy erge ...... ' . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . Rohrer ..... , , ........ · .... Peggy Arthur .................. Russell Sa.ge T 'dl .... Peggy Stauber:., ......... Albany Pharmacy- KAPPA ALPHA c~~~e~t~; ·: ·:.:·::::.'.'.' ...... Judy Goillday .................... \'skidmc:>re ·Mann , .... , .... , ........ , .Joan Harder-., ................. ·.... Elm1ra Lee, T .................... Ann Williams ............ Springville, N. Y. · y , ... Nancy Galusha .. , ..... , ........... , . . . Corn. ell B I K . N au BWI annes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,..,..1. . ,. Graham .................... every le .................. ass , C 'd ...... Margie Rice ..•.. ~·················· ,.rona. M h B · .,.,. · r Nassau BWI assl Y · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · Sk'd urp Y: • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ern!e ... .,a.le , .......... , . . . . . , .Adsit .................. • .... Norma Swift., ........ , . . . . . . . . . . . . ~ more Barber . , .................. Pat .Armour ......... ·. . . . . . . . Ballston Spa Vandeveer ................. Joan s·asse •. , . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sk1dmore Barlow .................... Pat Brig-gs ......... ,........ Westoverance Thrhe .................. , .. Arden Wittle ................ , ..... Skidmore Lee, D ................... Pauline Palmer ................... Bainbridge Wallace .............. , ... Phylis De 'Vi-vo .................. Schen,ectady- Wood, C .................... Mary Alie ....................... ·... . Ellis Lewis ..................... Gwenn. Hei!l2en .............. , , . . . . Slt~dmore Rossomondo ............. Sharie Jacobus ....... , .... · ... Tenafly, N. J. · Minehan ....... , ......... Barb Standfa.st ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sk1dmore Meyer, W ............. Susan Smith Steward ............... God Knows S Ethel Tighe ...................... Malverne Meyer, R ........ · ...... , ... Ginny Kelley .... ~ ................... .Albany T pence · .. · · · .. · .. ·'' ·' .. Gail K~ufrnann .............. Rockville Centre Wood, v. , ...... , ......... Nancy N()ore. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Corne !I ~lC; k.' · · · · · · · · · · · · · ······Anne Priebra~:ha.., .. , •.............. Ir.vingtol1 Lott ....................... Gloria :Meza ................. Creskill, N. J. F u a h ........ · .. · ..... · Sonya Allman ............... Elmira. College Ogilvie .................. Isabell Killfillan ................. Schenectady ;eo~~ .. · .. ·\ .. · · ...... · Pa.t Ciu'T _ ............. .Albany Pharmacjl\' Becker ..............•.... Peggy Sullivan ......................... Troy Lc an ................... MaryElrsa~ ....... .- .......... FinchSchool R ' Jackie Hale Ne:w York City eason · · · · · · · · · · · · · · \· · · · · · Sl'd ogers ... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , ..... , . . . . . . . . , Lang .............. , .... , .Maggie :Eliewoer •. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . tl more CHt PSI Hamilton .................. Gail Eaton ........ · .. ···· .. '· Russell Sage Taylor .................... Mary Deegan ..................... Skidmore ALPHA DEL1A PHI Smith ................... Margot :M:immack ............. , . . . . . Skidmore Gar dow ................... Marge F.eters. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mt. Holyoke Brown .. , ...... , , ....... Mary Beth Scott ... , . Boston Children's Hosp_ Parker .................. Barbara Hanard .................... Skidmore Bi!!.hop . , ! ......... , ••• Alice VanDerVIerken. , ...... · · · · · ..... Simmons Bird ..................... Marge Kelleher ................ .Aibany State Rubin ....................... Ina Smith ............... Wheelock Qollege Stack ....... · ......•..••... Jane Meara ................... .Albany State ,.O'Neill .................... Nan~y Bernert ............. · · · · · · ... Flushing Lillibridge ............... Dorothy Hearne... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Zimmerli ... , ......... ,, .Anita Si:menson ... U!J • •••• • • • • • · • Schenectady Jameson .......... · ........ Ann Learch ...................... Skidmore Fay ....................... Nancy Ogoen ...... : .... Mt .. Holyok.e Colle~e McKay ..... : . ........... Cathy Hoffman. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New Rochelle Williams ........ , . , .. 1 ••• Lucy Tumpllne •. , • . . . . . . . Timaganu, ·Ontar1o DuBois , ..... · ......... ,Barbara Underhill ............. , .. Schenectady Carey .. , .... , ... , ..... , .. , .Eunice Joy, ......... , Green Mt. Jr. College Suter ..................... Sonia Melius ....................... Cornell Huse ... , .... , ........... Elsa Vonkokeritz ................... Skidm.ore Youngs .............. ·· . Marge Van Keuran. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Russell Sage Ellermets ........... , . · .. Mrs. A. Ellermets,, ..•........ ·. . Schenectady Foster ............. · · ....... Ida Ariel. .. .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. Schenectady Daules ...... , ....... , . , ... Eileen Pa.ige.. .. . .. . ... . . . . . • . . . • . . Sltidm.ol'e Gregory · .. · · · · · · · · ·· .. · .. ·.Pat Wheat ............ U. of Rhode Island Briggs .................. Tvudy Hankinson ................... Skidmore MacArthur ...... · ··· .. · ... Alma Nichols ............... :Hemstead, L. I. B<tltay .......... , ....... Ilona Jessze:ns:zky ...... Manhattanville College Comstock ................ Melanie Henke ................. Russell Sage Gode ...................... Nancy Ea.:nk:.s ........ Union U. Nuns, Scho()l ' Toschi ............. ·:.·· .. Valerie Lytle ........................ Buffalo Boardman .............. Margaret Fleming .... , ............. · .. N. Y •. c. Davis ..... · ........ · ..... Bobby Theobald.. . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . Skidmore Lounsbury , ........ , ..... Jeannie Taslc:er ............... • .. · · · Syracuse Swanson ................... Sue Leeche ..................... , . Skidmore Ball ......... , . , ..... , ..... Aija Stukul.s, • .. . .. • .. . . . . . . . Cortland State Sadik ................... Katherine Downey .......... Waterbury', Conn. Boardman ..... , ... , ..... Anitra Wescott ........ Green Mt. Jr. Colleg-e Heussler .................. Ginger H:unn ............. Briarcliff Jr. Col. Wi!liams .. , ...... : . ..... Mrs. D. 'Williams ..... : .... ; ....... Schenectady Rosemier ........... · .. · .. Patty Panchak. . . . . . . . . . . . Waterbury, Conp. Gartman .............. Mrs. w. w. Gat\tm.an ....... , .............. , Scotia Stevens ......... • ··· ... ··.Judy Fletcher ....•.. , .............. Skidmore Compton ............. Mrs. G. Ei •.. cronptort ....... :. . . . . . . . Schenectady Wechgelaer ............... .Ann Pal\1mbo ...................... Elmsford Brown .................... GinnyFlahlo .................. Schenectady Shaw ........... • ·. · .. · .Jan:et Bradshaw ...............• '· Schenectady Frank .................... Alice Bemis ........................ Skidmore \ . ,, i i I. Nove The an ·O: Syrac For an id• tain 1: way: is a:; idea ,. GroUJ The it is shoul< and t .As a purpo has n cers, ing. A path stays Patl SAG'' ing tl but n they locatic them SAG Union, a hist tunate record Conc01 Cc ca ne th .all

1953 Alaska City- Alaska. Mass. 'State Hud~:;on Conn. . Ushers State Oneonta. Nursing :Nursing One'onta ham ton Oneonta . Vassar Corners . Morris Eddy Sage State enecta.<ly Sage . Fulton , Troy Welock ,Sage more sell Sage Sage Elmira Covnell . Elinil'il. Malverne le Centre College School Sltidmore Sage Hosp_ Simmons k Cqllege Flushing College i, Ontario r. Coilege Skidmore Skidm.ot•e Skidmore le College rs, Scho~l N.Y. C. Syrac1lse State College henectad;y .•. Saotia henectady Skidmore '' i i I. November 13, 1953 Sequel To Apathy Gro,up• Misses Union: A Fairy Tale ; I uGreat On Dates\ Men Say Of Arrow Shirts in White and Tints ,, Campus Consensus: Arrows get top date-r;:~.ting ... be- cause Arrows really keep a fellow looking his best. The new Fall and Winter line of Arrow shirts (said to be the \s:moothe~t li:qe on c.ampus\) can now be seen at . .all Arrow dealers. 'For free booklet, \The What, When and Wear of Men's Clothing,\ write to: Cluett, Peabody and Co., Inc., 10 East 40 Street, New York 16, N.Y. ARB(!W~HIRTS L---lliS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTs--...-. . Letters Home Simplified ' 'Page ·Eleven .A Fairy Tale B My profi:l are inhuman this year 5 Marks A Fair B Good C Fantastic (better explain, this could have a double meaning). 6 Reasons foi· not writing . A None (might as well be honest about it). 7 General A Am stilT in college yes ... . no ... . B It is the same college yes.... don't know •... . no. . . . refuse to commit my- self under the Fifth .Amend- ment •..• Your loving son ........ (Initials • will be sufficient.) ---------.FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES------- o·usy social Ufe? Pack plenty of smart Arrow Shirts in white and solid colors 3.95 up Count on Arrows to make a good impression every time! Styled with the best-looking, best-fitting collars in. the world. And they fit to perfection! Impeccably tailored of fine \Sanforized\® fabrics that will not shrink .more thai'! l %. Stop if'! today to see our smart selection in white and popular solid-color Arrows. · NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE'STREET .... S T 0 R I ADDRESS----I

Page Twelve November 1'3, 1953 Prom Tilt Pits Union-Hamilton In Old Rivalry Crippled Harriers Meet Powerful Hamilton Sqttad ·Seeking its third victory in- four meets, Union will send an injury-riddled cross-country squad against Hamilton in a.. · meet beginning between halves of tomgrrow's football game. Prospects for the Garnet hinge main1y on whether Captain. Don Stack ,stricken last week with a serious illness, is ·able- : to participate. Stack, first !'eported to have@>-~~-----------~-- ··.; The Union College Football team meets Hamilton on mono-nucleosis, a circulatory dis- K N N Alexander Fl \e}d a·t 2 ·.00 tOllJOrTOW aS both teamS ClOSe OUt ease, ha~ received enCQUl'aging re- o . 8 · etmen ports from his physician, and has their 1953 schedules. The Garnet has a record of one win been taking light workouts. He Tr·OUllCe D•U's d , 2 3 • may enter tomorrow's meet, though, and five losses so far this year, and Hamilton's recor lS - · at this writing, his status is still. . . The o·ame takes place on Pl'OD1 weekend here and is a til:t undetermined. Should he be un- . Kappa Nu beat. Delta Upsilon l_n \ • • r. able to run, the Dutchmen will be 1 the fmals of the mtramural tenms which both. teams wlll be all out to wm. It should be close all\· left with only five !!len, one of\ tourna:nent yesterday. K. N. won the wa'· ·past records meanino· .little or nothing in a tradi- whom, Frank Magiiatto, is sti.ll both smgles matches, and the dou- \ ' .. \' ' I hampered by an injured ·knee. This 1· bles match was not played. In the tional rivalry such as this. , means that all the starters would singles, ~ete ~ahn beat Ji~ Hoff- . lRR9 0 1 have to cross the finish line at i man and Abbie Gold took B11I Hall, The nvalry dates back to • · F I least four of them placing, for' the I as the tournament which had been and the game has been the last B· ·ootors ace Garhet to even hope for a vi.ctory .. delaye.d so l?n15 by had weather one of the season for the two '- ~ ·' Until Stack's sudd~ illness, Union I was fmally fm1shed. teams since 1936. Up to date, Union c 1 t H was .odd_s-on favorite to ·.repeat last e r t H It D.U. entered the finals by beat- holds a Sll .ght edge 1 ·n the serie. S, 0 ga e ·. er yea S VIC ory OVer ami on. 1 ing Psi U. in the semifinal -round. having won 22 and lost 2;1 wh1le . I Union to Oompete in ICAAAA Psi U. won the douhl<'s match but 1 ll Hamilton was not .able to win either singles there were e even es. . The Union College Soccer team On Monday, the Ketzmen will be won last year's game at Clmton, entertains Colgate on Daley Field I represented by Schecter, McKin- game. , however, and is out to get even in today and is out to gain its fifth non, and possibly Stack, depending w· . h t t t the series. triumph of the year. The teani has on his condition, in the ICAAA ' mnmg t e ournamen pu s lost two games while winning four championships in New York. Com- K.N. in second place in the intra- Last \\'eek·s Gamt>s Off so far and hopes to better this rec- peting against many of the nation's mural standings so far this year~' Both teams' games were cancel- ord against a strong Colgate team. top runners, the going will assured- ~·l{j/suwell ~u~. 0 ?' ~?P• having dw~n led because of bad weather last In last week's contest the Uni~:m .1~ ~e tough, and ch~nces o~ any t~~ni:. · an mis mg secon m week, so both are well rested and boaters cf\.llle tip with a 20-0 VIC- high places are exceedmgly s!Im. should be at t:'retty close to full tory over Hami~ton. The game· With , last week's running at The tournament was a, single strength. ;c>c:;p1le the poor re~ord I was played on a f!Cld that was half 1 Coblesk~ll, the Fresh~an tea:n con- elimination, so both D.U. and K.N. so far this year, Sam Hammer- snow and half mud, and two or .eluded 1ts season, wmless In two I were undefeated as they entered. strom would cons~der the seas~n more players could be seen on the competitive meets Here again in- the final match. All other teams almost a success 1f he could wm ground at almost any moment. juries played a large part jn the had been eliminated along the way_ this game. Both teams have looked Despite the weather conditions, showing, especially since ace John very strong at times all season, however, the game was a fast and Parillo could run in neither. df. and the poor records are due to good one from start to finish. these meets. Prospects for next the fact that the teams have been There was no scoring in the first year's varsity will be enhanced by guilty of lapses which enabled op- half, and Union's two in the sec- the additiqn of Parillo, Dick Smol- posing teams to win the games. ond half made the victory. lens, AI Schecter, Doug Seholm, Union has also been badly burt by and Bill Roemish from the Frosh With bad weather coming in- the near future, it looked as i4 the tournament would have to be called off, but two good days this week were used, and all matches were gotten in before winter pre- vented them from being played. the size of the team. Zenger Out squad. At any rate, both teams are Union will be without the serv- ready to go and want to win this ices of star fullback, Don Zenger, ---o--- last game badly, so there should this week. Don was injured in last Watching and Waiting be a lot of good football here to- wee)'c's game and will not be ready I think that she is made of wood; For sure I tried the best I could;. But being wood, she stymied me; morrow. If each club plays up to ·for action this week. its ability, it should be a tight The ga\:ne represents the begin- • contest all the way. ning of prom weekend activities Last Ga;me for Seniors and will start at 2 :00 Friday. _The team has two gall}es to play after Three starters will be playing this and could well finish with a their last game for Union. These really goo~ record. are Bloomfield, Wilkinson, and The crowds at the games have Klingberg. All three have been big been very small so far this year, cogs in the Union team all year, but there is hope that the prospects and Klingberg, of course, has been of a winning season will bring Union's star back for three years more people out for the remaiJ;l.ing now. games. At any rate, this is prom Interest in· the gaine has spread weekend, and a good sized crowd· far further than Union's campu:>, is expected to turn up. ---0--- Weather Report and a sellout crowd is expected to be in the stands at game time' to- morrow. Hal Wittner held the stu- dent tickets till Wednesday· and then opened them to the public Cool Today, Crazy tomorrow. Reserved seats will be almost im- Today will be muggy, followed by possible to get, and the game will Tueggy and Weggy. be witnessed by the largest crowd that has invaded Alexander Field r in a long time. The Union eleven has had a tough season, but the record wouldj certainly be a lot better if we had A. J.-:;~10~~----~ ::~:~::::: I . Broken Lenses and Broken I Frames Repaired a little more depth and a few more breaks. As it was, the team just too tired to play good football in the second · half of most .of ouer . I games, and the result was that w lost a lot of close ones. However that's the past, and tomorrow is another day. The Garnet is ready to play the best ball it has all · 147 JAY ST. Next to Mohican Phone 4-5875 year, and we hope the Hammer- strom men will end the season on a viCtorious note. .....__... •••• ~-~· ...... J Amherst 20-Trinity 14 Coast Guard 12-R.P.I. 6 Maine 35-Bowdoin 7 Middlebury 7-Vermont 0 Williams 13-Wesleyan o· Be SU.RE to see ••• 1 For only God can, make a tree. -Reprinted from a Condemned Coi:lcordy . \' ••y eoman of the Guard 11 by Gill!ert and Sullivan ,. I ERIE THEATER Nov. 18. 19, 20 8:30 P.M. Call the Erie box office (Sch'dy 4-3300) For tickets and .reservations Orch. $2.40 and $1.80 LUIGI•s RESTAURANT Specializing in ltalian·Am~rican Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 6-9744 Enjoy our Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our New Cocktail Bar Balcony $1.80 ' ........ .., For Car Trouble See a Union Man William H. Plath 'AUTO SERVICE Scheenctady 6-4895 601 Union St. Gor. Barrett St. Fr• Ma ( \Ci'oc:k -the ir Som with~ \'{Jause •over c ·fighte: troubl \\With E ·ed frc \to bo:li .blinde, Persoi fight that punch \ and u ·those been 1 a noti1 he'll g been J, The many \the lo in the -.ing ar 'Of the :anteab of one The Clift what many, of the seem regionf borah he ref1 cause an RO Ke\r i: husban three; his V. Clij't pas bji little s Ironica his ov they d know] questio how ii hands 1 ment ll was sh P-e~ Ou 1-,rr. l \the de] bureau :some class e: &ults ol lure st other .that th collecte union, devices. a very raise.' The 1 class sl: age of Frosh 1: ler m~ (averag majors, majors, 160. Dean lated M him on a good All shouild 1953 eil the stt. <soon a~

send in a.. game. -able.- in. tennis N. won dou- In the Hoff- Hall, been weather beat- ! *·round. but, singles puts intra- year~· ing won in. single K.N. entered r teams way. in. the i4 the to be this matches pre- wood; I could;- me; tree. a P.M. $1.80 ee a E 95 St. November 13, l963 From Here to Maternity (Continued from Page 3) • '-'Ctoc:ker's Ginger Cake Mixes for -the Imbecilic. Somebody -must have seen Clift with John Wayne in Red· River, ·be- \'Cause once again they .have him •over cast as a middle weight prize . ·fighter who •looks as if he'd have trouble :making the Welte1• limit . 'With a .fifty pound weight suspend. ·ed from his navel. Monty -refuses -to box, the story says, because he CHARTER BUSES Call Welcome Line$ 4.:9444 G. A. WELCOME &SON - ....... ·-·~ For Your Sunday Meal .. Lu,m Fung Cldne!ie•American FoQd COCKTAIL BAR 135 Broadway •• P~ge Thirteen -II r;;~g;;s-;;j ~ 'J A Union Man's Choice ., : . i Two Entra rices: 1 t' I 635 S : ~ 1 tate St. •t I . I 1711 Union St'., Sc!h ~dy .blii)ded a friend while sparring .. Personally, I think that Clift won't ''-~­ 0 , J 222 Notr Terrace I i . I Telephone 6-0070 · , I . I .:..,...~~~::--·-··-·------- \-----------------~--- Just off State Street fight because he's finally realized that w-Hh his build he ·9ouldn't punch his way out of wet Kleenex • and that one of these days ,one of ·thQse muscle-bound extras ·he's been lambasting around will take a notion, and hit him· so hard that he'll get t-hat Place in the Sun he's been looking for. The movie is also filled with many beautiful shots of Hawaii, \the loveliest, insect infested hole in the world. Particularly interest- . .ing and ·in tempo with the mood <Of the picture, was a shot of the :anteaters soul-kissing on the edge of one of Olahu's many volcanos. The end of the picture finds Clift and Lancaster committing what will probably be called in many quarters, the bonehead plays of the year. 1,3urt, whose muscles seem to extend into the upper regions of his cranium, gives De- borah Kerr the proverbial air when I:te refuses to become an officer be- cause he hates them. l Obviously :an ROTC student at Union). Miss Ke\:r is once more united with her husband to make a ha·ppy group of three; Deborah, her husband, and his V. D. Clift emulates Lancaster's faux pas by walking out on; a sweet little set up lor love of the Army. Ironically enough he is killed by his own men, probably because they didn't like his sport shirt. I know I couldn't stand it. The only question the picture left with Ii:J.e is how in the world I can lay my hands on the key to Donna's apart- ment Monty had on him when he was shot. P·eersin And OurFrosh Mr. Peersin (the Brd) director of 'the. department of admissions, the bureau responsible for collecting :some semblance of. a' freshman class each y~ar, announced the re- · aults of the latest frantic drive to lure students of one sort or an- other to Union. He emphasized .that this year's entering class was collected from every state of the union, using a minimum of illegal devices. He said that he has done a very good job and should get a raise.' The brealrdown of the freshman class shows the usual high percent- age of social activity majors. The Frosh lhieup as follows.: Rathskel- ler majors, 136%; Footbali, 36 (averaging 200 lbs. each); Activity ma.jo:t's, 1 (individualist) ; bookstore majors, 10; engineering, %; others, 160. . Dean Charles Huntlee congratu- lated Mr. Peersin (the 3rd), patted him on the head, and said he was a good admissions director. All Juniors -and Seniors shouild attempt to pick up their 1958 editions 'of the Garnet at the Student Activities Office as <soon as possible. ~;· ~ • l A:i \H~~ ~OE~ II?\ dials New York-· 1 and a hm..ldrn,g m Illinois answers ,. . J Shell Oil Co. wanted a small bri~k build- ing in Illinois to be abl~o teletype auto- matically to a dispatcher in Radio City- more than 800 miles away. The building • in Dennison, Ill., is one of four pumping stations on an important oil line. For efficiency, all these stations were to be controlled from New York. Bell System engineers were asked to help. Now the New York dispatcher oper- ates these stations by using an ordinary telephone dial. By dialing a number, he can make a pumping station automati- cally report back its meter readings by teletype! He also dials numbers to open and shut valves, start and stop pumps, \\ and summon an attendant. It's done through Bell System facilities, These remote-control installations represent salesmanship, research and engineering skill on the part of many Bell System people. That's the reason there are rewarding opportunities in many lines for college people in the tele- phone company. Why not check soon with your Placement Officer on your chances to start with the Bell System after graduation? BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM .. 1

Page Fourteen On The ··Sideline.s Thi....: wt·t·l\., ~entlt• rea(l,·rs, '\\'t· ~hal·~ tPL',:tlt· ~ou \\·tth irnpn·:-:.~ton~, of :t l't.olll \\'t·l'k<'nd foPthall r:nm•· ~(l a=-- to pn·part· you f(lr \\hat':-: a·h,·:tr. t ;..;ott· thts oclurun i:-1 tn- tt ndt·d fttr fn1:->h and wornan l'ln)y, an:; IIJIJH'rcla~~nlan findinl!' any-· thtn;: nt•w in it should cll'<tn th•· dirt off his face, h!'cause he's had · his hPad in a holf' for a long, long 1 timel. 1 ~aturday, two p;m.-Having just ~ottt•n out of ht>d, ~·ou'r\ still ~ro~gy and want to. climb baclt in- to it for one reason or an- othPr or perhaps you havpn't bet>n to boo yPt, th<\n you'll re>ally en- joy what's com- ing up. l't>rhaps ,·ou•, . ., bt't•n to 'tll'd and just weren't able to fall i asl<'t>p, then ~·ou've aln•ady enjo;yt>d · anything coming up. If it isn't 1 baek down hy now I'd rf'comm<\nd that ~·ou go lllt<'li to ·hpd, aftPr all,· football is football, hut tht•rt• ar<' sonH\ things whil'h . . . In any m .. nt ~ou\n• made it . . . to th•· gam<', that is. I ' ? • a November 13,. 1953 Union Participates In Post Season Tilt Sam Hammerstrom informep us today that our football team has challenged Notre Dame to a post sPason _L!atnt•. This w:1:-; <lunl' aftPF tlw· mah•r h:Hl !wen tllmq.;ht t!ut clearly and it was '''''n that th<TC ··can bt• lit tit• or no .<Jouht that we c:tn hP V·ictot:inus in th•' tilt. H will liP PhtYt~d '·in Soufh Ht·n~J. bP(':lURP Sam wants h> makt• (},.. d<'f<'at as t>nlharra..s:-iing- H~ pt:ls:-;il·)lt• for thP t .. am which \b Hll'l\'\\'IIY .tl1P .best in the nation.\ Mt-. Hamn~t•rstrom .. xplaim·tl that thPte is no .chancE'· uf uur lu:-;ing- the g;une and has sho\n·d me facts and figures to hack up his state- ment. They are reproducPd hPre. Our wirt by 32-6 over R. P. I. and that team's one point dctory OV<'r Rochester give us· a 27 point Pdge over the Yellowjack..ts That tPa:m lost to Williams by eight. and Wil- liams beat \V:esl<'yan 13-0. This makes us 32 points l>ettPr than Wf's. and thf' tie in lhP \Vf'sleyan- Amherst tilt makes us 32 better I than thP Lord J. effs. Am·hNRt bPat Brown 7~6. and Rro\\'n was six points better thnn Holv Cross. I This and Holv Crose'~ 21:0 loss to Syracuse le:w;,s us JR P\ints llettPr than that \Pam. ~\·rnruse 2fi-Cor- \ nell 0 and Na,·y 2fi.rornell 6 lea¥es us 24 points hf'ttN than Navy. We are 21 points hPttPr than Penn on ,I thP st r·pngth of thnt t<'am's .9-6 vic- : tory ov<'r th!' :l!tdshipmPn, And l Notr!' Dame 2S-I'••nn :!0 obviously 1 mnk<'s us 13 points t...tt••t· than that .team. On your feet, here comes th<' I kiclwff. Unwrap that blanket, hide that bottle, Big Brother !YlaY be watching you and yell for dear old , Alma Mater. Some ten minutes \ pass and the cold begins sneaking --------------------------------·--~-------------------------- in on you and it does get cold up :,!Jllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!: DU Leads in These arf' thP rPasons for ,the challenge, and the Concordiensis goes on record as congratulating Mr; I:Iammerstrom for his abiilty to realize the true strength of our team. I ~-----0 here, honey chile. No dear, the = = house it not this cold, yes. dear we = Pulsebeat = For Your Info do have heating (100 proof heat- ;: ;: I t I ing). So, out comes the bottle; ;: ;: n ramura S just a little nip, for the cold. of I;:_ by ==j . \ FRIDAY, NOV. IS-AD-INTERIM course. - R 'II - SCHOLARSH . It's half time and it sepms thf'rP ;: oger Mem :;: \ The intramural program so far IP REPORT. Daily are nine million othPr guys and I;:: = this year has consisted of football a.ssembly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tid- . 1 h t 1 t d but tbP I .illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli': and tennis The former was won marsh, MC, noon; Varsity Soccer gtr s, w o wan 1 0 ogs, · · Union vs. Colgate at Sch.,nectady,' hell with them. Put your hPad I SomPbody asked me and: 1 by Delta Ups1lon and the latter by ~ down and butt right through thPm. I I think Carter Davidson is com- I Kappa Nu. More points ::re award- 2 .p.m.; THE MILITAHY BALL When the other nine million ha'\f' pletely neglecting a large part of 1 ed for football t.han tf'nms: and the and Crowning of the Queen, Gym- the same idea this sometimes· pro- his job here at Union. It is his complete standmgs are listed be- nasium, 10 p.m. until 2 a.m. duces interesting complications· .• duty to protect his teachers from low: SATURDAY, NOV. 14-CLASSES urn, they were as soft as they injury and to make sure that they Delta Upsilon .............. 235 · SUSPENDED; Gradaute Record looked ..• nothig like a good soft are well healed after one, before KapJ?a Nu .................. 178.57 Examinations; Varsity Football hot dog, I always say. , they run the risk of getting an- Sigma Chi .............•.... 175 Union vs Hamilton at Schenectad~ Second Half- Who.s got the other. This if a fact of which Dr. . · 2 p.m.; Varsity Cross Country, bottle? Pass the bottle. Someone Davidson is well aware but how Kappa Sigma · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 162 · 86 Umon vs Hamilton at Schenectady passes the bottle; Old Chern Lab, he can reconcile this with the fact Phi Sigma Delta ........... 162.14 2:30 p.m.; All College Informal 199 proof. After you get back off that he allows teachers to enter Chi Psi ..................... 147.86 Dance, Gymnasium, with Phil Pa- yeur knt;es ~nd .start to see again, classrooms three times a week is Phi Delta Theta ............ 147_ 14 tico's Band and featuring \Football you reallze 1t m1ght not have been beyond me. It is obvious to any . Highlights,\ 9 p.m .. to 1 a.m. a bad idea? to cut the stuff. Foot- person who is capable of !l-IlY de- Al~ha ~elta Phl · · · · · · · · · · · · 133 · 57 SUNDAY,. NOV. liS-Sunday Serv- ball gan;e . Oh, yes ~own there gree of thought that a teacher is Psi Ups1lon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 44 llttle men runnlng around B ice, MC, 11 a.m. Mr. Hobart Mit- . · ,· . . ? , . . · badly inJ·ured every time he lee- ,.· eta Eta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . 119.29 W Th t chell of Rye, N. Y. \Sermon in ere wmnmg · a s mce • pass tures for a full hour to Union stu- Beta Theta Pi .........•.... 118.57 Song.\ the bottle. . . dents, (considering the interest our . . Br now It IS beeOJni~g rather students can demonstrate( and it' De:ta Phl · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • 104 · 29 MONDAY, NOV. 16-SPECIAL AS- cliff~cult to see, e'::errthing seems is equally obvious t:P,at the injury Ph1 Gamma Delta •......... 104.29 SEMBLY PROGRAM. Speaker, a btt b!urred. ~ait IS that s<?me- can not be cured in two days. The Sigma Phi ... , ...... , . , . . . . . 90.00 M,r. John Scott of \Time'' Maga~ one bemg earned off the field; only way out of the dilemma is to Ph\ s· K 64_ 29 zme, MC, noon. There will be no nope, just anoth~r of the brother- have classes meet only once a I Jgma ap~a · · · · · · · · · · a.ssembly tomorrow, Tuesday, the hood, no capacity these sopho- week, and I think that no one Theta Delta Chi · · · · · · · · · · · • o.oo· 17th; Bible Study Group, Student mores. . could be more aware of thi.s fact Kappa Al<pha · .. · · · · • · · · · · · · 0.00 Lounge, 7:15 p.m.; Varsity Cross A~d so as you ho~\Izontally I~ve than Dr. Davidson. However, he Country, IC4A Championships at scemc ~exander Field, you b1d a seems to feel that repeated classes strongly on this point. Noth,in,g js New York City; The Concordiensis fond adlf'U to the world and ge~tly \are more important than the men- that important, and the whole Banquet, The Tavern, 916 State st. pass out. By Tuesday you Imght tal health of the persons who teach thing amounts to criminal neglig- ·7 p.m. Speaker, Mr. John Scott of even lrnow who won the gamP. th<'m, and I disagref' with him enc~. Dr. Davidson i.s completely \Time\ Magazine.; Astronomy Club ----- ------ DELTA CHI Doderer .................. Sondra Schecter .................. Albany State Donovan ................... Mary Connors ....................... Irvington McKelvey ................. Patricia Hogan .................. Russell Sage Clark .......... , ........ Anne Mary ;Heimer ..... Oneonta St. Teach. Col. Graves .................... Shirley Hobart ...................... Simmons Newins ...•................. Caroi Piercy ................... Ballston Lake F;iday ........•.......... Iris Scherrte;rhqrn .................. Schenectady Pincus., ......•...•...... Esther Kartlganer .............. New York City Antemann ................. Alexia Pincus .............. · ...•.•..... Queens fa1lmg to consider which is the of Schenectady, CE-106, 8 p.m. more important of two issues which can not be reconciled. In short, classes simply aren't as im- portant as taldng proper care of the people who are involved in them. Dear Dr. Davidson - This is meant as humor' and I would feel badly if it were taken pei'Sonally. I have run into problems on this score in the past. :!111111111111111111111111111 u 11111111111111111!.;: - - § The Intramural VollPyballS '=tournament will bPgin nextE: Sweek, and aJJ.. intTamural ma.n-= Sagers are requested to check in E: SA.rt Lawrence's gym office and:: :become acquainted with the:: :-;;chedule. :: - - ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllll·ll~ Noverr Li ··The: its finl ~a.tur(!; .lia1ns j the cr< so '(ar, an ,rna ord. ' ti'e .. ah< favore< for tti< to Tuf by An \Vesley a tie ~ Willlal! The Little is· ple1 teams. Amher1 past r4 no thin~ no rea: importl Until two otl at the elimim hetst, l backinl their g record tl!rougl OtheJ records througl ester, play; 'I Swarth left. VI .500 wil Trinity. Unio1 league Hamilt< us ahe: and Mi ings. The league the sea tilt wit off ]as schedul In ge a. lot of marked series o to mea league gardlesl w{Ults comes far: A. V\ H T: B• R T Si V\ H H M R U; P.U. NE Korea Ainia i Fall~ 'Mter duty, c is wen< across t \The F gan wii who no~ tary A1 Vaughn.

1953 us has post a f(PF t l)Ut there we will •at a..« r tilt• .best· that lo~ing facts \tate- I. and ovr•r Pdge t£>a:m Wil- This than better bPat six Cross. to llettE\r leav:es We on vic- And viously that ,the ulating abiilty of our Daily Tid- Soccer, BALL Gym- Record Pa- Serv- Mit- rmon in AS- Speaker, Maga• ill be no the Student Cross at State St. Scott of Club p.m. g: next: ma.n-:: in: and: the~ IIIII IIIII ,II~ I i, ·November 13; 1'953 .. P.age Fifteen · Little lyy Winner T·o Be Decided This Week ., The J:.ittle ~vY :Lea~ue moves into~--~-~~--.----~----------------~-------~----~--­ its fina'i. we(!!\: of :cm:npetition this . · f;'ll!lturC!ay. . and ·the Ainher:>t-Wil- · .limns gam.e wi].] dt·cfrlP \'·hp· wins: the era\ n. Ainh<_·rs:t is und'CfcatPd' ~o 'far, and only it tie \\·ith Weslc·y- I an •J)lano an otherwiSE' Jlt'l'fcct l'E'Cc i 6rd. \Villia:ms ha& a loss a·nd a. ti'P,, nhd .a vi'ctory o\\er the heavily · favored Jeffs v.•ould mean a: tic for the ieaguP lead'. Williams lost to Tufts, a team ·which was !)eaten by Amherst and tied Springfield \Vesleyan, the team that ·gained · a tie with the Lord· J·effs, lost to Williams 'la::!t weekend·. The game will also qecide the -Little Three. champion, so there is· plently of incentive for both teams. Past records ind·icate that Amherst should win easily, but past records have· meant little or · nothing all year, and there seems no reasqn why they should become important now. Until last weekend, there were two other teams that .had a chance at the Little Ivy title. Trinity was eliminated by a 20-14 .loss to· Am- herst, anq Hobart's last chance of backing into the title left when their game was called off. Trinity's record is now 4-2 and Hobart is through with a ~1 record. , Other teams with .500 or better · records are Bowdoin, whkh is through with a 4-3 .standing; Roch~ ester, 3-3, with King's Point to play; Tufts, finished with 3-3; and Swarthmore, 2-2 with two games left. Wesleyan could move up to .500 with a victory this week over Trinity. Union is in last place in the league at present, but a win over Hamilton this TWeek could move us ahead of Haverford, R. P. I., and Middlebury in the final stand- ings. The only other team in the league Is Hamilton which finished the season wlth a 2-3 record. The . tilt with Union which was called · off last weekend was their last , scheduled game. In generl).l, the season has sl:!.own a. lot of gooq football and has been marked by an almost incredible series of upsets. Past records seem to mean nothing at all when .two league teams .. get together, a.n<t, re- gardless of records, every team w{Ults to <Win each game as it comes along. The standings so far: WLT Amherst .............. 6 0 1 Willla,ms .. ........... 5 1 1 Hoba,rt ............... 5 6 0 Trinity'. ............... 4 2 0 Bowdoin ............ 4 3 0 Rochester ............ 3 3 0 Tufts ·-············ .... 3 3 0 Swarthmore ........ 2 2 0 Wesleyan ............ 2 3 2 Hamilton .. ; ......... 2 3 0 Haverford ........... 2 3 0 MiddT£bliry ·····-···· 2 5 0 R. P. t . ............. 1 5, 1 Union ····••<~••········ 1 5 0 ---o.~~- P.U. News Bulletin Kor~ Jet Ace to return to A.lJna 1\:later, ltnion College, in Fall. 'After twenty-two years of active duty, Colonel Hophead Harrigan . is wending his way homeward across the Pacific in his jet plane. \The Flying Hypodermis.\ E[!!J,'ri- gan will replace -Lt. Col. Stooliere who now assumes -the post of Mili- tary Attache to General Harry Vaughn. ·.· :-:·=-=·.- :: .: :=~:: :) ···:-:-:-·-:·:-~:::~~F~:~:F?tT·\?::-:-· ·. :. : :-:: \:::·:.: :,: :,··;:=:;:~::;:i');::::: ·.·.·-: ;.; .. · .. ~::.::):~f=t: .. ·· . . . . :· .. :: )/;~ .::~:~:::;.:: ... . '•.·' ·:··.· ···:-::: ... ;.::::.:: .. :·:::.·-:-·. reai b~er (re'gl bl'r, rel blr) adj. & n. 1. A brew that is light, but not too• light ••• dry, but not too dry ••• just right for modem tastes. 2. Beer that hasn't lost any of the flavor, bouquet and other basic ql.lalities that add up to true beer character, 3. Beer 6rewed of choice ingredients-brewed skillfully and honestly to be completely satisfying, completely refres4ffig-Syn. SCHAEFER. ' To understand the full meaning of~ beer,. try Schaefer today. is real beer.! The F. & M. Schaefer Brewing Co., New York



All . The News that Fits We Ptint . · · u ·· , -- ._ -- n · .: 1· - o :; - ·- n - ·- · ' - s- : ' : ~ • • ' - I ' . '': ; ' : ' ! ' • : . • . . . ' ' . . Ivy Pre~ented to , Amherst Council I 'Jih\'rsday Nov• ' 18 I . Special · to . the Conco~dien~is~rom the \Amherst Student: At 1 :4!5 this evening Am· : . h~.r.st · Q9l1ege officially ac;. cepted the Potted ivy Tmphy, ,' ·emblematic of football ~ su - . - premacy on - the newly recog .. · _nized Li t tle I~y Leagu~, , . · Herbert . Spira, Editor . of thE) ' Concilrdie!lsjsl . pres..ented, the tropP,y · at . an Qpen session of the .Am:hers~ . . student · · Council to James Barnes, · : . President of the Council. Also · - rep- res . ehting the college at. tl;le occa ;- , si'on were Mathew .Mitchell, Editor of · i.h ~ · \student\ and the c~cap- • · tains of this y (i! ~s . - 1J.ndefeated · fdot- ball teain, · T . ommy Knight a,nd Maury Longsworth. Fo,..,_, at Union COllep in l877 ' SCHENECTADYi N~ Y~. NOYEM8Eft20.1953 Ivy Le a -g · u :··:· e - . . - ~ ' ' : . . Take s Grecian Dreamer Muses On Little Ivy leag~e Page 2 PJICE lO CENTS · R . t ' ' ' ~ 0 · 0 Assent of . Seven Colleges . Brings ·' '~ldest\ Conference Into Existence !'<might at Amherst, Ml\ss., the J}ewest and, at the . same · ProbablY: the old~st athletic confer~nce in the UJrl.ted 1 ~;>:tates-:tne Little Ivy Leag-ue-.-comes into· official ~teJ).c~., · Editor Herbert L. . ~pita of ' tbe · . . .. u · . . . Con¢ordiensi~;~ (Uni:on . CoUege , news-. . · . · · rg · es · pap~r~ wi!J present : the WUJtam . · · · · · · · Winne Trophy-~ rare potte9. ivy W . a · rd · st ·' udy . -. :. . pl~t - to . .1\l;ilherst College . · . · ·: · - · : ·_ - '\yho13e unclefeate~ f9ot~?a.Ii squad During the meeting hel4 on : . topped Little : iW le~~u-e staMings .L . UOCl:I\J.O.;y,- . l'{oveniber · 17, the Wit,h a SiX )V~n-1\0 101!8-'0ne tie . r~c­ Stqdent Council authoriZed : o~d. The preflentat-lon wi~l ta.lf.e Stephen HQlb~;ook to . investi~ ~1!1-Ce 11-t a _ tne~qng · o( the . Amll.l!i:at ' gate the whole system ot : st~de~t coun~ll, where t;be. ~ophy : • athletic awards. Will be accepted by Matthew Other topics · discussed included. Mitchell, editor c;~f the Amherst stu- Freshin!l-n orientation, Ute Sop:hO:. , dent newspaper; the president of m . ore ~th r~uir$~nts, : an ' the stuclent co~cil~ an,d , To~my agen9,a/or. the TjppeC!plo~ . · Oon!er- · Kn:Igh't ~d Maucy Longswort~, co- ~ ectton and: 9ii'!Play contest . captains of the victorious team . as the &'YlJ1 11'tua~ion i redUCI)d . .. · . · . · · • . -t'rl!l.ill ~ oa _ d ratel!, and reports from a symbol not only of athletic . Splra,, on b!!'!lalf of the League ! s . Pictured · abov~ .is Pr9f~ssor William Winne, present;blg the potted · -ivy plant, later given to Am· the Sewage, su;rvey,>llhitd Publicity supremacy, - but of the - values and mem:bers . pr~sed Amherst's \fine · herst College, to ~.,orm Jl!4jtor Mar.tin Ha'ilser and Editor-in-Chief Herbert Spira. Union- Stai' Photo Committees. traditions of small school football ; \ tea):ll, out&tanding record and spirit - The •nvestigation of the athletic · . _ eJ!:emplifying the finest traditions > s · tt R ' • ' I - Ed\. End l awards system was initiated by a . 'J;'lJ.e tJ.:ophy, Itself, has all inter- of I,iittle Ivy League .football.\ . . . . co · . . eviews vy . 'Ito . :a-s · . . orse p an dlscusslo~ of awards . for . cheer- esting history. It ~nteretf. the _ U,~ . He stated that there was univer- · · .. . ' . · . ' · . · . · · · ' · ' If , ; I ' · · · . . ... · · leaders. It was pointed out that l~t .Year. when ;Biology PrQfessor ~!1.1 . agreement around the league, . · s • t p · 1• p· · F • f L the cheerleaders get no reward for _ WIDne . sailed from Liberia on the and especially at Union that :Am~ · _ . OVle . . . 0 lCY · . '.or· . . · o · r · m - .. a · _ · t\~o.n· 0 · . . . _ .. ' ea - - gue the time · ~d effort they put in, AfJ,.'ican Pilgrim. It is a veri{ rare herst desei;ved · tlle lJ.onor. If nor is there any extra reward for · species. The dignified ~ere~ony was The increasing strength of Interest and ideaiJ cl)ncerning the ~ptai~ · . Never, as . far as · I know, has it lightened somewhat by the Qolin - Russia as an economic · com- · · Union's ~ttle Ivy _ Lejl.gue have The Sports Editor of the Bow- . Suggestioas - wer~ ma4e of a been fOUnd in Africa,\ stated cil ' s amused r~!lction to tlle appear- . t' · t · . f th u · · . 't d St t been runmng high among seven of doln O~ent, in his _ colum . n, _ ex- _ . block · U or a block U witll a mega.. Winne, the . donator of . the pr~~ .. pe 1 or 0 e nl _ e a esthe - thirteen amall aaatern colleges · ·_ · · thronah it aa · an award to He \ft- . named the plant · uede · ra ance of the . plant. ''T)ie t,.-ophy . l$ ed b J h S - :;<\\' · pressed approvai · of the . basic idea, ..,., · · · · · ...,.. . - dQubly _ symbolic,' ' said Spira. \It is · was stre~s . h . y obll,l h cottf, which CQmprise our as yet hypo- but . felt that an obvious obstacle ~~!l.d\:l N~~':fsc::!!f:!te~::n_s: Helix Africans. the wol'lcJ.,'s only _ liy.i!)g trophy ar~d : &ssi~tant to t e pu IS ~r 0 thetical league. _ . : will be the rescheduling of the col- to the question of awards in gen- Seven~ . of Thirteen a . rare : species, at that. Tb,ere is 1;1. • Time magazine, at the first So far, the included ' schools ha,ve ' leges. At present, he said, Bowdoin eral. ~olbrook . was ~en author- v rae . rrseita 1 _-ensd ~ wti _· htit~chs _ p . iwriet ah . m 0 _ poe;ngWI . ~ _ 11 u _ r tuak;nie • ann ua _ l Con _ cordiens. is _ b _ anq uet offered both approval and recom-1 faces only \four teams out of the ized to get a copy 0 ~ the rUles ~or Axp.herst accepted league inem- h ld M d t Th mendations concernJng the leagl!.e, thirteen mentioned for the form~~t- the award~ of athletic letters · bership by telegram yester~ay root ~;~,n,d ;flQUti~h in the Little Ivy . e · On ay evenmg a . e and ail the student ~n,ewspapers tion of the league.\ lie · therefore which could be used to detel'mine DlOl'lljng, It became the - seventh League. · . · .. This is. just the - begin,- . Tavern Restaurant. . . . seem to express considerable en-• considers Bowdoin~s chances for revision of . these rules 18 necea-- of the proposed 13- school . roster to ning • . . ft can, grow to bring in. Herbert Spira, Concordiensls edi- t}lusiasm over the idea having al- participation to be slight at sa.ry. · ' sho:w a favorable reaction to the creased glo~;y to· Amherst's team tor, . in lieu of a speech, , presented ready written a tc;~tal of 61 inches time. . s.n,c. BeJnstitutlon · D1&cusseci plan, which was pU't forth in a ~d the entire leag'lJ,Ei. Also, the pQt certificates of promotion to . twelve of copy on the subject, including. Although the ~ton The Freshman Orientation _ Re- Concol\diensis editorial Oct. 30. is not in _ without some symboli&m;\ freshmen, elevating them to full two page-one features. displayed considerable port, submitted by Ja~es Hoffman, The editorial, hi suggesting , a It was pointed out that, since st~ff reporters: Jerrold liirscben, Perhaps the m~>I;Jt drastic reyi~ : the formation of the was accepted and a motion made · league of Amherst, Bowtt.oi~, H~- John McLaughry, Amherst coach Stephen Knafel; Calvin Knicltel'- · sions suggested thus - far come 'from • League, the enthusiasm was not to advu,e the Freshman Orienta- • -ilton, Haverford, Hobi!Xt, Middle- began his career at (Jnion , and be- boclter, Edward J:..,angholz , Albert the W1lllam. ReCord, where the . shared by tpelr football coa~h Don tion Committee to reinstitute the bury, Rochester, Swarthmore, ',J.'rin- c~~se , Chri~t~an Davidson, son of ~:at~is~!~ ~~!~m~~~r~~i ~~~ only objectio;n Is to the · size of the Jones;, In a Spectator intervi.ew, he Sophomore Dlscipilne Co~ttee. ity, Tufts,_ WqiJleyan, William!J and ~mo~ s Pr _ es1dent at~en:ds Am _ herst !lam Tone, and Edward Cloos Jr. : league. An t!,thletic conference of . si!Jd, ~~~ilton Coaches ~re Anthony Tartaglia, head - of the Uniol:!., sa~<l the . schools are char- It was all the ~ore f1ttmg that the : · The senior board appointment of 13 teams. they feel, just can ' t be : ~f th~ unhealtby pressurea in Delphic $9clety, rev~led that th8.t . act;erized by high schOlarship trophy should pass between . the two R . og · er Merrt\ll as . sp · or.ts ' editor, and coherent.\ There wiU develop too ~gue competition. The tremend- group, · at ita last meeting, . bad con- standard ' s pri~arily, taking a dim colleges much diversity of abillty l;Uld in- ouso fight and consta~t pushing sldered the idea of takillg over . · view of profession~.li~ed athletics. . _...._ · • . the promotions of Arthur Feldman terest within a very few yea.rs.\ w ~ld _ have D:J,ore detrimental ef- the job of . Freshman Orientation. Barnelil ·~gratefully accepted the to National Advertising M~nager, They further . suggeat our splitting teet!' on the .team than the possible . Richard IioffP~&D then moved that tropby as- a token of the league~s !llld Alfred Nadel to Assistant to into two gr«~up~J; J\mherst, Bow- :distm~tion of being champion o! the motion be tabled until the Del- feeling toward our football team.\ the Busines§ :Manager; · both junior doin Middlebury · Trinity Tufts the league could cotnpensate. . ·. P h _ ic _ Society decided definitely V · ar · - I'ed s · · ubJ · ·ects o · · n · Tbe _ . co-captains thal'!ked the · board positions, also were an- .... ' · • • Coach Jones stated that \no h t it d Wesleyan, Williams, and U~ion on . ite . decision . . has · been reached . wwasa put~dtee. to do. The motion . Leagl,le spokes~an fo~· the kind : nounced: by . Spira. ...,. Ti SJ con.tments about the te~ 11-nd the Russian ~anslon one side, and Hamilton, Haverfor((, either the · athletic (Jepartment . , The sophomor~ · DU\th req'll{re- . •· p pe _ canoe ate intere$ t shown by the members, · Hobf!Xt, Rocb.es~er and syral'thmore the College a4mhlistratlon,\ 1 · ti ated Spotting his talk with amusing on the otbfr• In the ftrst group, . The . Hobart Herald ve was nves g , and ~or- A.. dispatch - to be sent to each of personal anecdotes, Mr. Scott po,nt- schedules .mtermiJlgle consistently sive · cov~~;age to the ga Scull reported that ~ sopho- ' The semi-an~al ~ppecan~e ~on- the member schoolS was then com • . ed out the trend 'in Russian policy · and the _ colle~res are .· close g~ _ . story · but hastened to warn, · mores we~;e caught by the new f.eren~e, will · . e : pace on ~n ay, pieted by Mitcheli to Include a pic- from attempts to increase satellite graphically; a necessity a~ong , of the teiuns suggested for the rule, which states that ail · s 0 pho- · Nov; 22; at Hale House. t~re of tlJ,e ceremony. terr-itory to an expanded program !!Mall c 9 llege 8 of limited athletic • . grQUp pl~y several games with mores muat have flliished their · Tbe Tippecanoe Conference is a o • . of economic developll).ent. Automo- bu(lgets. On the other band, very t _ e . ams :Outside the league, Three of .. . · theln _ mcoantdlJ, . Yc~~;.seS~buyl . l thp 0 e 1 netedn4 _ . get-together c;~f the . council With bile and radar equipment p r oduc- few of the second tiv colleges are • ..... ..- \ fuulty, adtninistrative, . and student _ De . b t C •1 tion were cited as specific examples . · · · e · · · ·. the t~s • . Wesleyan, Amherst and out, however, that September, not leaders to discuss issues . concern- . ' ·. ' a ers ' ompi e Of greatly incr~ased industrial out• =~~!d~yed e!t !!~e:lr!~l:~p.c:t Willi~s. are.,. already grouped. as June, is th~ · deadline, giving the lng VI!iOn Coiiege. . . · · · · tt i t d t 1 th •. . · · ' -, the \Little Three\. Also, a tre- snnhs another cra · ck at c·ompleting · I • R. d . , put. Mr. Sco po n e ou a so e leges m thts group are located all .....,. The agenda, drawn up at the l~t • Di\pr _ . eSSIVe e· - COr . fact that Russia allocates a fll.l' . . . . . . . mendous amount of scheduling their requirement. The question Student Council meeti!lg, wili con- t t t 1 t over the Northeast.\ organizational work . woUld be then arose as ~- - whe· ther '\'r. Ketz . higlJ.er percentage of · o 8l s ee ou - ...,. .w. . sist of the folloWing . topics:· the From: their 1ast nine debates. the put to heavy industrial develop~ The Middlebu:ey Csmpus mad~ \essary for the group formation/' would give tl;l.ese sophomores ' 1 stu- . ~()ll~~e·s part ill helping married . U _. n _ i _ o~ Pll _ -· nos have come . out win- ment than do we. The United note ()f our suggestion~ in tqeir · The oJ;lly ~knowle(lgment an- dent-in -. go94-;ita.Uding'' letters to · students from Diltch . men's VUiage, i iX At A b ' editorial last week . The editors nounced at Amll.ers't thus ·far hail their draft . boards. n ng s . . 1 any on Nov. 11, . States, With her hlgl;t- tarrif bar- there beiieve that the p · rinctp · al lid~· . b . een their Student douncU!s . dect• .., Tl . p · pecanoe A,.4 _ __ d.. . , soon to be torn down, to find living three out of fou,r :wenf down as rlers will not find Russian eco- li .. ~ .. quarters near the college; the topic victories , at R.P.I . on Nov . i6 It ·- nomic co):llpetition easy to cope . vantage in our scheme is that the , · sioh. to accept · the . Potted trop y, An · apnda was - drawn up for of a balanced college vs . our pres- . w~ the prev - ioustt familiar split, with, and Mr. Scott foresaw the co.mpetitlQn Will . Include schools _ symbol!c ot becoming the first the fo;rthcomlng Tlpp(!ca.iloe Con- ent admission policy anll . :the effect . and here at home on Nov. 18 it need for drastic revisions in ou;r . With s!milarly high; . athletic tnorall'! Ch!ltllplon of what promise!! to ferenee, to be }lel4 on SuJiday, Nov. · ot the t~ition rise; the Qbjection to . was two ()lit of three a13 victories . . · foreign trade policies if we are to . as thetr own,-part . lcular.ly the de-. ih~ outst~nding small college ~2, at Hale Iiou~~e, . professors w.ho lock their doorl! at Ft:om: these statistics, · it appears successfully compete with an un- -etnphasis of atbletic scholarships. fere;nce . Stephen Holbrook announced the 8:Q2; tl:!.e extreme length of : epgi- that Union is $winging int~ a very · scrui;mlous nation fighting for its reaUlts of the display contest . · The · neerlng labS; a suggestion to start · promising year ·of coinpetltion. · economic life, F It St d t c •tt first p~ce trophy ·was presented ~ternoon cll:iSses at 1:00 and have ' 'l,'he winners of the Nov.. J8 de- • dailing on his experi!lnce ~ a . acu ' . y · . . - . •• . u ' en \ • . . Omm.I _ · -ee by the queen of the prom dUting ~Illler at 6':30. to give tiie teams pate we~e for the affirmativ - e, J'ohn · foreign correspondent, Mr. Scott h.alf tltt1e i~ the Hamilton. game to · more practice time; the possibility t.9tt alid Ted · smitlJ,, The Nega- answered the . questions of staff c I t · n · · • • · R t Delta Phi• Second and third ot spi:!!ading hour exru;ns insteatl of - ~ives, Lin Swearingen and Noti:nan · m!)~bers concerning . reporting . omp : e es . . lDing · · . ' ep _ . or . were tllken by ~ppa ~lpha bunching them; and a suggestion of ~cull rotnped as usual while abroad. Making fachtal reporting Delta Theta, respectively , po classes for several days befoJ;e Oh~l'es :a:nzer ~nd Ca,rlyle Fis't!ei· . difficult is the strict censorship · of After three weeks · Of exhaustive resear<!h; the . Car.bone, chairman of finalS. h.ope for better luck next time. . even the . most innocent-seeming t~a!ion•Fa~~lW · :Student .Committee studying West C91le&:e !!~ced . Co~~~:e·bat~i: . T;t~ilon's next big test comes t~i~ news b~ J_Unerican ~tandard. Me- dnung fac1Uties turned ItS completed report over _to Prest;. : for ~d. Stud~nt . weekend when they journey to tl:!.e teorol.ogtcal , inf~rmabon, _ etc. dent c . ar·ter · D - aVl'dso · n , · last Friday m _ orn · )·ng • . LJecause of the . · of the . Bowles . c _• . • a11JCels Lecture annual tournament . at the tTniVer- . Whtle at Unto.ll, Mr.. Scott was .o ~tty of verm~mt. Representing <Continued on Page 4) nature of the material, the comm . ittee unanimously agreed Sisson Chester Bowies who was sched- Vniort will be the ~lg four of - · . • 0 .. . that the report should remain strictly confidential, and will · . . Treasurer, . wh.Ue uled to b.e the se~ond guest on the ' l3aitay an~ SchiD.inke, ~.tflri;natlves, Photo Prices Attacked · be .. released through the President'S ' office oilly. C~e. !t{a,dsen. • McDermott, ' Union Colil)ge . fall iecture senes, with the Sweari~gen; .Scull combln- : Mr. William Morr~s. head . of the (Cont.nue(.l , on Page 4) · will be unable to appear in Sche-• ation representing the ~egative ; Gi:idh'on Ball Committee has noti- This. decision to hold the repc;~rl •. · · - · . . . nectady on• ' Tht!-rsd~y. November 19; ,_ qjlse. . : fi _ ecl t~e $tu&~ht Actlyiti~s Office ~:~ecret was ~ade by both the ad- R ' ·O ' 'J'frtGn · · ·dz·'Wl\·'H·Ba \ · ll· Gre · · · t cf'l·c'oe · ss · as pl~~d; Dr. Car . t~r Davidson, , of the exor.bitant prices charged ~inistration _ . antd . fa,culty xp.embers · ·. · .L · \.) · . · • v,-., . 1 - ' . · W: 0~~ ..:..' · · President announced . . According to r.=:;;:::;:=:::;:::i:=:::;::::::::::::::::::::;::=;::::;=if : by :Berthoid Studios for prom , and the studen me~bers, with ~e \Over - 850 coll.J>lc.la, not i~Cl~ding . . Miss. l!ililier Gardner date of present plans; the cil,l.}cellatlon Will · The ~e~rleaders of UnloJl. are ; pho~os. . realization: that the ()o}Jege would 30 faculty c 0 upl~~ made the Ptc;~m: J~es Hoffman o! 'nu was be final for this . academic year. im:dous to have a faculty w.em- · After having made a verbal utic;lerst~tnd ~he untavo¢ble pub- . a fiill! af~aii; M.~ a fin$ncial sue-: crown,ed Queen . of the Pro~ and , · - her Join the . staff. If any -t&c.. : agreement :Mth tlt~ Ball Committee · ~icityt)lat ;mig~ _ t result frOn). ntait- : ces~;'' stated Willlam Morris cadet: wa..s aw~de4 a golden \Lov.ng . · · • to charge $1 a J>rlnt, :qerthl)l(J : · m!I all the information . public , · mBJor in, . charg~ o~ the Proni, Ap.. · Oilp\. MiSs G'a.rdn\er trom &he- . · ' ~ty ~ - Js . tnter(lsted !P.ld will - . , charged · $2 : 50 for QJ. . sJngle print, . Without the . proper ~~~~B:tiona. :proXimately • $250 . tlia:t - rema.t~ , ;iiectady,, - ~t:iw . atieq<Uilg · Springfield · lng, woUld he . .,leal'!e contact ; $3 ; 50 for two , . . · Th~ Concorc:lie~i~ claTifl~d its . at;ter ~enses . Wit\ be , donaUid . to 09lle$'e, -- ~ an honorary !;Yl~~ber Jbri Spera ~t iU!.PP!' NU, - 6'-99ll9. , • Mr. ;Morris wishes to apolog~ze . llosttion ~Y a wr - ttt~q · stat~ment th& World Student : ~nd ap.d . Ule of the ;ReView.ng Party for Satur• . • • · · · · ·· · · · · · . · for thl!l high pticE!. (.Cont.nue!l oa P~e . 4) Air Fore~ Aid SOciety. • day ~rnoon'• ROTC review , The · ConcordlenSf~ , WUl not be . published Jl~ week . because of : . ihe Tha.Dks~lvhlg r~ . • l . i I I. ! · I ! .t •\ i ! l\ l . l i! '\ I I · j l I d l ' i I . ' !· ·I • i · ' i i • ' I I ' ' ~ • ! l ' 1 ii ·. 'I '· i l !' · · t · · I · ' i . , , , i l . ,,

2 ·arnurnr Member Associated Col- legiate :Press and distrl butor ·at the Collegiatt Dlgest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 Madi- son Ave .. N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office,Washbtu:n Halt Union College. Pub- lica.tion Office, '!'he Ga- zette l'ress, 334 State .st. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, subscription lOc a copy ; $3 year delivered any- where in the United States. SENIOR BOARD -HERBERT L. SPll<A '54 ....... 3-~6:,0 ................. Editor·in-Chter GARY R. KATZ '55 .............. 2-3611. .............. Associate Editor MARTIN HAlTSER '55 .......... 6-9540 .... , ... ; .. . .. .. .. . Sports Editor ROBERT CHARTOFF '65 ••..... 2-3611., •• , •.•••••• ,. Managing Editor PETElt T. AlJLr:R '55 ......... 9-U540 ................... News Editor RUBEHT BECK '54 .............. 2-3611............. Business Manager JACK J. WOllLF '55 ............ 2-3611 ..........• Circulation !11ana~er I!{WlS •:~:HT'l.tH: '54 .......... ~·3till. ............... F .. atute ~:ditor HUBE!tT BlCIITE!l ·:;4 ........ 2-3611. .................... l'n!'Y Edrtnr JUNIOR BOARD _ JOSEPB HOLl,!SGEH '56 . . . . . . . . . . . . Assistant CirculatiOn :.1anag~r l'AlJL GILBERT '54 ................................. Exchange J::drt<•r HlH.iEH :\lEltHII..I.. ·~,;, . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... ~JH•It:-4 Edtll•~ ROBERT SWART '54 ........ , ........... , .. , ................ Art Editor GEORGE SOFF1!'1 '55 ......••............... Assistant Feature 1:-~ditor ALA:-! ltUS!-~SFI•:LD '54 .................. Associate Exchu11ge E<lrtut REPORTERS Nonnan Hartner, :>:oah Herle>'· Leslie Bernstein, David Re!'l'y, Arthur Fabricant, David Fink, Joel llitlin, Avrom Gold, r'red Gottlteh, Ha11> Groot, William Han<\MI<. Hart Kivett, Steven I.ewis, Halph !\lani<'s. Joseph ~Iartorano, Htdl:trd l'rupp, Henjatnlt1 Sadock. Phtltp :-:l'hac·ft-\1 H.eubPn Schwartz. ~onnan ~kul1. ~auriee Silber, Hlt'hard Slubl,.t·l. l.'harles Spiers, Robert Tofel, Alan Young, Martin ZimmermatL Landislau Berka, Jerome Goldstein, Jerrold Hirschen. Jo:dwnrll Klo\\· Steven Knafel, l'alvin Knickerbocker, t:dward l..angholz, Hkhnrd !.•·\ t,. Joel l'lattn<>r, Albert Salvato, Alan Schecter, Alan Schiffman, Joh11 Sein, Alan Shucard, William Sisson, Simon Stertzer, \\'illiam Tolle: BUSINESS STAFF Alfred :Sadel, Stanley !<'or\' and, Arthur Brenner, Arthur James Spero, Frederic Gro;se, Hohert Lewis, Alan Greene. CIRCULA TIO:N S'J'AFF Fl'ldnoHil, Harold Patterson, carl Mindell, Richard Shaver, Roger Harvey. From The Editors' Notebook A Two-Way Trust , .. Union College has a long-standing ruie in its list of do's and don'ts for its students. It is almost the sole regulation whose violation can result in expulsion from college. Re- duced to its essence, it states that liquor is not to be con- sumed in fraternity houses except at functions specifically designated by the Dean as liquor-serving functions. For- tunately for the students at Union Sollege, the Administra- tion is not a group of old maids. Rarely, if ever, do any members of the faculty conduct a spot check of fraternity houses to determine if the liquor rule is being violated. Crudely stated, this honor system of ours allows many stu- dents to violate the regulation without being caught; how- ever, if the Administration were not as liberal-minded on this matter as it has been, many of us would not be here. The proprietor of a local liquor store reports that Union students bought two or three hundred dollars worth of liquor at his establishment last weekend, and says that this total is below par as far as Prom weekend sales to Union men are concern~d. Nevertheless, we are sure that many guests left this campus last Sunday with the impression that many of us are habitual drunkards. If we wish to keep our trust with the administxation, let us not drink to the extent that strict enforcement of the liquor rule becomes necessary. Well Done! FRIDAY/NOVEMBER 20, 1'953 THE SACRED COW By Th«,J Grecian Dreamer I w.as walking along one of the more secluded lanes in Jackson's Gardens the other day, when a tremendous hue and cry from the general direction of the campus· reached my ears.- I decided to re- turn from my planned meditation to the reality of the campus once more to discover the sour,ce of these outcries. I was not long in discovering that the noises were the resound- ing responses to the recent cam- paign launched by th,e student newspaper Concordiensis for the formation. of a \Little Ivy League\. _These reverberatiolliS reached me here from such distant plat:es as Amherst, Williams, :Hamilton; Ho- .- bart and Bowdoin. . I wru; not surprised at all when I had uncov.ered the source ·of this new ·upset. Such an idea as Little Ivy J;,.eague has long been in the is to function· at all there must be The World of Art contemplating stage. It was no a revised scheduling of athletic small wonder that the action to- contests. This may not be accom- ward the solidifying of this desire pUshed without the aid of the ath- into a real and concrete program letic departments, or to carry it a would,. when initiated, take on the step higher, of the aclministrations present encouraging r-esponses and of the effected schools. It !14s flow of ideas. Alth(lugh it is a nat- been encouraging to note that Am- ural outc<Jme of mutual interests, herst has already started the ball academic programs and geographic rolling in this line on their campus locality, I think we all should real- \vith acceptance of thE;! idea by the ize that there still remains much entire student body through their serious work before the coznpletion vepr'\esentatives the Student Coun- of a Little Ivy League. At the cil. I should like to see the con- present time there have already ference push such, student votes on been serious criticisms offered by all the campuses which would form many Qf the contacted schools to the league. Student demonstrations the original Ooncordiensis pro- such as this, accompanied with ap- gram. These ideas, I feel, may best peals to the administrations, would be worked out by a conference of be bound tQ result in acceptance of the schools which !!Would form the the program by the administrations league. This conference will de- of, these schools. It is my opmwn that the ex- artist today. For instance, his hibjtion of paintings by Hayden Great Ancient Bil'd has a quality Scott, currently on display in Old of hideousness and evil which is Chapel Gallery, is the best and really quite striking. This is not most pxciting that we have seen to say that his art is in any Vl)ay then! in the pa~t two ycat·s. He literary, or that it has to be read. has a great srope and width. His The effect is instanta.neous and in 'pictures run from the calm taste- purely visual terms. His Notes on fulness of Easter Hymn to the Art and '\Var are all an attempt violent movement. of Tribute to to create·an atmosphere associated l'tlartha Graham. Scott uses color w.ith some phase of the war, either with extreme grace and simplicity. humorous, as in Note on the Com- Even in his sel'ies of Notes on Art mui:Ucation System or rather and War, he avoids garishly c!a,;h- tragic, as Note on the Bringing ing assemblies of color and trick- Out of the Wounde.d. When he at- like breaks in tonality, which mal'e tempts to use\\l·econgizable objects the works of some abstract paint- such as in Note on Taking. of a ~rs better advertising than art. Pillbox, or Note on One of tile Hayden Scott's paintings are or- Dead, I reel that he is less suc- ganized to provide much tension cessful than in the purely abstract and movemPnt for the rye. Hi• ones. pictures are well and distinctively\ As can b·e seen from such titles done. as A Temple For a Little Dogma Scott. however. is intP~<•sted in Without a Faith already men- more than design. He has at- tioned, Hayden Scott has a kind tempted to bring some quality of of wit that is reminiscent of Paul associatton and some id<'a of mean- Klee. There is about his work ing back into abstractions. He is, some of the child-like world of in a way, attempting to comment wonder that is seen in Klee. His on life, which is. generally spPak- insects, huge colorful things, are ing, not the aim of the abstract very much as a child would make ------------ I believe that Hayden Scott is His and Hers- By Robt>rt Ri<'ht{'r Opinions are far better than hearsay; so this writer decided to take a sample of student opinion on the recent Prom WeE'kend. Be- low are listed the views, of several of Union's Illustrious, along with those of their dates. one of the best and most interest- ing of the younger artists around, and I would venture to say that ~i~h\7~~~::r ~he, outstanding exhibit . . ~ Mix mine with Cide the exact membership of the It was indeed with a mighty league. It would be- able to discuss roar that \Little Ivy League\ at- the sports covered and would begin tempted to become a natural part the important work toward admin- of our school. I hope that the stu- istrative acceptance <lf the plan. ldents ~ess enough insight and This administrative cooperation '3.bi!ity to carry it to its final devel- may not be denied. If the leagu, ·Jpment. For Your Information SATURDAY, NOV. 21 - Varsity soccer, Union at Merchant Marine Academy, 19 a.m.; Intervarslty fel- lowship conference, student lounge in afternoon; dinner in Hale House, followed by movie in Old Chapel. Plaza, 8:30 p.m., Joseph Szigeti, violinist,· call Miss Betty Bibber, 3-9568, for tickets. SUNDAY, NOV. 22-Sunday serv- ice, Dr. Samuel McCrea Cavert '10, secretary of the National Council of Churches of Christ, MC, 11 a.m.; Tippecanoe conference, Hale House dining hall, 2-5 p.m. WEDNESDAY, NOV. 25-Ca~pus Rosary, OC, noon; Jewish Reli- gious service, Silliman hall,. noon; Christian Assn. religious service, choir loft of MC, noon; THANKS- GIVING RECESS 'BEGINS AF- TER LAST CLASS. - MONDAY, NOV. 23-Bible study group, Student Lounge, 7:15 p.m.; Campus Chest, Old Chapel, 7:30 p.m.; Soaring Club, CE-106, 8 p.m.; French film, \Farrebique\ (aus- pices of Modern Language Dept.), Psychology lecture room, 7-9 p.m., college community weicome. TUESDAY, NOV. 24--Daily a.ssem- ' bly, speaker, Prof. Augustus Fox, MC, noon;· French film, \Farre- bique,\ Psychology l(:lcture room, 7-9 p.m., college community .in- vited; Schenectady Symphony, L G. BALFOUR.CO. ]AMES Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at price5 you can afford Booth and Fountain, Service 426 State Street This ne\vspaper wishes to applaud the work of the Ad~ ministration-Faculty-Student Orange Juice Committee which submitted its completed and compt·ehensive report to the President last FFiday. For the quiet and efficient manner in which the study was conducted, for the difficult job that it did, and for the calm, reasonable attitude and atmosphere which the com- mittee encournged among the student body, the committe£· and especially its chairman, 1\Ir. Harold Van de Car, rlt>~erve The que><tion: \If you harl this Prom Wed<•·nd to li\;,, owr n!\ain what WOCLDN'T you ltnvc don<'':'\ Brian Killlatri<'i( ··Nothin~.\ Virginia Barn.·s \It \\\' n·v first ptom at Cntnn. a.nd l tlwugl;t VHERSHEY ~~:·~ Fraternity Jewelers BADGES- RINGS- FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFI'S STATIONERY- PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or call TORCH SONG Joan Crawford Mlchaol Wlldint;~ a rousing \well done.\ It is to Union's eternal credit that the incident .. has shown graphically the area of possible cooperation between the administt·ation, the faculty, and the students in solving a common problem. The final outcome of the affair -con- crete action on the recommendations jointly submitted- rests with the President. We are confident that he will end the agitation to the satisfaction of all. The Ivy Grows \Ve were quite gratified by the recent respons~s whicl1 this newspaper received in its attempt to initiate a Little Ivy League. \Ve have received nothing but compliments and constructive criticisms from the members of this cam- pus toward our idea. Further, we have been quite encour- aged.by the responses which we have thus far received from the other campuses concerned. We can interpret this only as .a common interest in seeing the founding of a Little Ivy League. it \\'as silll!•i~· mat \'ulntt>' I \\ ould· n't mi~\ any of it if I !Hill the chance to rqwat thP v,·,.,.]<<'tlll.\' >{- .y. '£- GPn'y ,JamPson hav<' gott0n so ... \I \• •uldn't Ann LPar<'h-- \Thet·e· wouldn't have don<>.'' >{- llo. l{o nothing I Di<'k nor<;t \I wouldn't h:n··· stay<'d quit<> as snher.\ ,Jant• Hamilton \! \\ortldn't \\ cha:--\in~-; nynlph~ in Jnc]\~l~n·~ c;at- d<'n.s.\ We would, however be interested in receiving additional student support for this program by a positive vote of the Student Council, or would rather see the matter put before the entire student body in one of the coming week's chapel programs. We are, however, quite sme that the majority of the campus would join with us in saying that the Little Ivy League has been too long in coming. -The Editors ~or.Hot News Read the C~ncordy * 'A skirl of the pipes and A sprig of purple heather- To wish you guid cheer . And good fourtune together\ • TARTANS For Christmas· At the Bookstore • Order 11ow for Xmas Guerra's Pharmacy Pres~riptions - Drugs Fountain Service 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. Just two blocl•s from the camp:us CARL SORENSEN SO Murray Ave., Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TJ:tOY -ADAMS 8-2528 -----------~-- ---· ; f BALL'S MEWS SHOP ~ A Union Man's Choice I Two Entrances: I I II :~~ ::: T~·~\'' ·11 Telephone 6-0070 t...-----------------..! , GAZETTE also BIG LEAGUER See Victor Mature in THE ROBE THOSE REDHEADS FROM SEATTLE also TARZAN AND THE . SHE DEVQ.. PRESS PRINT-ERS St I11 Ut Qver tl ·minus the lint num:be1 Union Michig1 history Stack, the fact tr.aining, behind came in ~7:03. :H ond with men In t ,McKinno Magliato, Led b~ the i!Op:t men wot year aga mont. Tl and Mi< over the weekend. Coach along fil spite inj and Stac once, an Hamilton capped Vi of a wee The Ke eel t.heir York St Country the yea-r power ca ate's mis :k:etz 1 meet wi1 apparent that SchE of last ye up In tli counting from Scl from Ca}l ·the squac Freshm former N Bill Roet Smullins ing depe year's sq· illo is bei add to t: Don Sta< he, too, injuries. Sw: Fa s In vieVII sjty swim '$2-'53 sea dimmest requfre \ still \the against s N.Y.U. an Ray ·Mull The Iol Werner 1 Metzger felt heavi and divh kohl tran of Texas, Hartmam will also Since ft enter var no new b year's n: carry ti:J means, < bt·eaker 1! Hartmanr Kim and three evl t4e Garnl the divinJ nucleus a: men Ru1 Dick Lan• hopes to ord start on Dec. 1 ~U.T. v tion to tl ule which McGill (C Champion Altl:10ugh generally higher atl consistent ords-7-2 9-1 in '50. ~saor of pionship Mullan em feat since winning-l Union by and mas year's se~ The Cl1 champion Cohen an t~ntial an ~id Mull• weakene.d bea.vily it

.· FRIDAY, NOVEMBER .%0, 1\953 3 Schechter Paces _Union In· Win Over Hamilton :!,JIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII!!!: ~ ~ = Pulsebeat = = = = by = - - - - 5 Roger Merri.ll E - - ?fllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ Garnet Trounces Hamilton, 27-0 • Watches,. Jewelry Clocks Repaired e Engraving, too! Jay, Jewelry Oo. State and Broadway C'iillege Men Look \Smoother\ Thanks To Arrow Gabanaro Trim- Fitting Sports Shirt Furthers New Trend To Neatness One of the most marked chahges in camp~s fashions · this year is the switch to the neat sports shirt that fits · as well . . . looks as trim . , • as a regular shirt. This change has been brought about by Arrow Gabanaro- a washable rayon gabardine sports shirt in exact collar sizes alid sleeve lengths ••• Sanforset® to keep Its per- . feet fit. Available at all Arrow dealers! ABROTY »» '--- )lo TRADE®MARK ./ IHIR~ • Till • UNDERWEAR • HANDKIRCHIIFS • SPORTS SHIRTS Hence, the need for height may hamper the team. However, Coach Ciccoleiia hopes to overcome this disadvantage by stressing control of the ball and fast breaking. Union's 1952-3 record was five wins and nine losses. Although the record was not very impressive statistically, some of the losses were very close, and the Garnet massacred Hamilton 100-75. The season was good in our amateur league, which has numerous upsets and empha.Sizes sportsmahship rather .than winning records. The team is meaning to revenge last year's 53-30 loss to Williams Klingberg Rolls • in th(l opener here on December 5. and white jerseys for the last time, Union High On Spirit And so the season closed. Union's record of two wins a~ainst five losses is not indicative of the .spirit shown by the members of the squad throughout the year. Rather, it is both symptom and effect of a disease perhaps as deadly to a football team as cancer-fumble- itis. The Dutchmen came back from losses to St. Lawrence, Am- herst, and Rochester to romp over R.P.I. 32-6. Then Hobart and Wil- liams each beat them, although they looked very strong in both affairs. Hobart won 19-13, while Williams was losing at the half 20-7, only to come on to win. by the close score of 28-20. Union's Win over Hamilton last week came after a week's layoff caused by cancellation of the Haverford game, Particularly outstanding in the course of the season were KUng- berg's exploits. He maintained an average of over eight yards per carry, and constantly starred de- fensively. The entire Garnet line played good overall defen,sive ball, while outstanding' performances were turned in by Tom Giambruno against Williams and Don Reed against Hamilton. ~---------FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES -------y You look better Ill feel better in, Arrow \G abanaroj' • in your exact collar size • your exact sleeve length ·s~so • Sanforset® for lasting fit. Get that smart neaf took with Arrow Gabanaro , • , America's #1 sports shirt. Washable rayon gqbardine . , , Sanforset® to keep its fit. With exclusive Arafold collar th9t brings you extra comfort, extra smartness, worn with a tie or without. Stop In today ••. ~;hoose from many handsome c:olors in your exact size. NUSBAUM'S 44 7-451 STATE STREET

FRIDAY. 'NOYn.11ER.20a' 1953 4 ·s=zar;q= Dr. Bailey's Portrait · Pre-Meds tfl Oraitge Juice · · • .Dr. Larrabee SpellkS:· W .; I.ll· H· . an··g·, In·.·.: .. c·. 'h,, ~a. ·P·· ·el·. ll'e.r:willJiie ~~';:9'~¥:,;:::~, ''\\Before Vnion Alumni ; D~.,~William: Winn:e w'ill l'ecture · The .C!)il.corclie:ttsis wishes . to. ' · ·· · · · · · The memory of Frank Balla.y, ;rvmr counrty .b.oy· . who ~0. tl];E! Pre-M' edica,l· S'ociety nE)x:t clarify th~ ·C.Onfidential nature of:: \The nee.d of. the ho.tii' in higher<i:tl-' ~--,...,.-~~~-~\\\\\-~ · .t\~~ _;• • 'il t 30 · 205 th.~. inf(!r.Ifu.t,tiQn coJJ.tained .ill the 'educat~o'n is ''l;o ll!~ke ~m~rrcan we abhor when ii; appe!!;i's: as fa~ lived to become Union's greatest financial guide anU: bene;.. '·'r esda;yn.!g!J,.t a .. 'J .•. · ·.· 1 n roo:m: •.. 'ripin!t ... it shalL' be kept a,s .c 1 ·Qm· 0 -r c·.o~ .. m,u~.· ·.·• .~- •. · f th B 1 B ld H 1 11 'colleges safe, as they used tp be,, .., ..... ~=· ~ ~ ' t \' • u \:I:t will/ Dr. L!'il'!'~llee' COilil U e , ;!;actor, Wl'll· S00ll be perpetuate<l: fOl' genera.tiOUS Of :future O e IO ogy Ul mg. e W strictly coQ:(ideD,tial and its Cb'CJ.1- ~O!' .dl'',f·erence·s· of opinl'.on,\ sc-l'd· 1 d d' students when his portrait j()ins those of other College ·speak on :rt'l.ateri~l gatl:lex:ed ~rom.Jat~on ·shall CjlaSe with is pl'esen- 'P!10fessor Harold A .. Larrabee of: \be a sa.d day for ~M:a~'s right to h 1 11 ti his recent explorations in Africa. tation :tQ t1u3 P-resident ' · · We ,Union ·College, curr.ently Visiting: know· .led. •g· e• and. the fi•e_e u .. !le there. greats in the Memorial C ape co ec on. will oo-()pe~·ato fully with the Ad~- . ' . In a .recent interview, Dr, Winne . Professor of Philosophy at Colum.-· ·of w.l:len a:U .faculty m:empers (and The new po1·trait has been made_' . 'stated that he would rather face: minist1·ation in publishing, or not . .bia, in an address last nig;ht be-·:'not just a few nuclell:J' p}UI!iicists) Possl .ble by a gift from W. Howard .. · · · publlsllfug; any i:;rloi'J;Iiatio;n, rec- fore tb.e Union.. a;lutn~i ol' New:. have to h. ave ~>laal'\!.ne!\i! · ·~e. r.ti(ying 'Tit.e Concordiensis wlsl1es to · · the alleged Wilds of Africa than ommendations, ·or .proposed action \ Wright, President of the Schenec-:. apologize to Tom Gia.mbruno the traffic crossing at Union Street: • ' . We would like to be kept in- :Yorlt City. ' that tll.eY h~J,Ve nb rettbtes %~t~ tady Varnish Company and a Union,,: and Ed O'Meally for n&glecting · · formed' ·(of the status o:f the re- . \'¥ovth has the rlgh~, even the.· dl,lbjous political ·. e l.e 6 ' · 0.):' · a 95 Th .. ·and Nott Terrace. He said that. d b .. ll d t int du.t·y·,•• ·h· e contl·n·ued', \to as·k em· _,,th. e.y· ha.ve. pers·o.na,lly abst~l11e\l graduate in the class of 18 . · e:. ', to. nent!()n tlem; among the Se~- port) an · e pnv ege o pr 1 t g~nization Bai. ley likeness will hang in the . ·l():r football playe1•s. This ova~- · the reputed dangers .of Africl!. are any rel~ase {of information) .ap- oarrassin&\ questions of jts elders, fi:m b~\ onglng t\'~!lih~~ would ·be sigh.t on the pa.:ct: of the sport'\!· not as dange~:ous as moving pi<r proveq by the Administ;l'ation, o~ to.· an<;l' to try· out new ideas. That a voca.mg an,y \\ 1 . · · . :he ·current downstairs section of the Ch.apel, ·department in no way reflects tures would lead us to believe. Con• report, after· a reasonable· length is the only way the mind can grow. deemed unorthod9Jt p;yt · · · · · · · · I d f Past P resi · t 1 ed Th 1 h ,_., t' . ·H· h. . d t' d' ·t· .. 0 . t fro· m.. crop of headhne-):nmting POll- norma !y reserve or -, ·on he men invo v . ey p ay- tinuing, he stated that he did not. of -time that. sue .· :Uuorma 10t1. 1s 1g er e uca wn, as Is m . . ti~Ians.\ · dents of the college, a fitting trib-' 9d great baJJ. aU season. and we have to face any real ·hardsj!i:p. not fo1thcommg, as tJ.te case may traini-ng-, thrives on doubt il.:bqut p · d t ll.ope that it is still not too late be ·the answe,rs, a,nd a burning. desire ute to the man whom res~ en : to say,--\Congratulations Tom f.voin the wild· life o'f. the region, ' olohe i:\enort w.as submitted in ;:;i'&.. to i'emo;v:e that doubt.\ it · carter Davidson recently ranked' d Uni will . u\ and· that the '~eatest obstacle he.: . _. \ . . · · · · -· . · · · Anonymous Letter >!4. the Ed or: al t N tt ILI!d E ' on mlSS yo . faced- 'On his t;r;ek was the •lack of se~~mns. Th:ee o:t. th_ese wer!1 ~pe=, . The ocpasion of Dr. Larvabee's Dear Mr. Union Edi~or: with Eliph · e 0 ·' food. He also related that because calllzed studl.e~ of: (a,! them';'~n , address was :the 66th Annual Ban·' The donor of the Bailey por-trait,, . of the lack of motor cars• and tor~ an«;l pr1a1ng J;lOhfY• (bJ .the, q~et of' the N:ew York .Alumni I went out with .a 'i;Jil.ion Frater- Mr. Wright, has remained in· Sche-· S··u· ·den. t ·Co·un: ci'l· bridges, ·he was force(l to walk his·.PUSin!,lS~ and. account}~?'. pro~ed-, Ql'j:lb of UnJon College held ye(lter\ ~~-ro~~t~~is El~~~;n~i~~tt~e:!~i nectady smce his graduation Jlrom. li way .over Mrfca and s'Win1 across.ures, .<c) the la~or .condltlons, ·:.he; day evening a;t the Columbia CJ~b. rec·an a th .. i.ng until T'Wo. ke .UP Mon~ Union and has become one of the (Contin.ued from Page 1) th r·vel's b.e encountered on his. ren'laurder conslst.ed of sum':la:rles.: r>raseht at the event were a dis· City's leading figures. He was ass?\' .. e ~ · and recommendations fqr actHC)n hy · ·ttn·g· uJ·s···hed- b<>dy of Union ,men·. i:l!· ·day morning back at Hall .. Did I •t th G 1 El ctr 1 c Rocc() an.d Sawyer were picked as JOurney. th ' ·d·· ·a 1 b d ·b ~·h - · · · ~ · ' d w on\\? elated Wl h . e . enera e . . . . t ·h . - . e .m lV). 1,\!3< mc:m ers an·. Y :\. e eluding President Carter Davidson o . r \ . Company from 1895 ui).til 1900, re- rep!'esentatives. Dr. Wmne stated tthll: ef ~n. c)l1l.lrman, spealHng; for the com•. ·and ·as .guest of honor Professor ,Anx:ioUsl:Y:, signing at that time to establish .A :report that Nott Terrace High tended to lecture on · op1cs o lU· mittee - · • · . . · · f 'th M th · S.lfd · Mi the Schenectady Varnish Company. Scho<>l was using the gym to the, terest to the pre-medical students The. committee whi'ch was. ere· Cha:Ies T. Male, Sr., o .· . e b a. ef ;4. . I more . ss He Serve d as a director of the old OJtcluaion of Union men was cor-. rather than on his o'Wn specialized ated os ·a result of the Concord:!- mahcs Depart1m9.1e3nt.P:Afme. o~r eMI \ole Editor's Note: '\rr:y to ·remem- . t d An t b tw the' d f b t H 1 to ·n-· \' · ·. . . 1 · . ·the Class of · · , ro .ess \' bel:. Board of Trade and, in 1922, helped 1ec e · agreemen e een , fiel 11 o any. .!l· Pans · 1 . ensis orange JUICe ·)'lrotest sale Oct. · . · · . . · · · a1 t · h t · th ·-;:;:::;:::;;;::;;::;:::::;::;:;:;::::::;:,:::;:::;:;::;::;:; to organize the Chamber of Com· Terrace and Union coaches as to: dude [formation about the para-. 15 and disbanded. upon .the com.: p.t'ov:ded anb.u?-u~u, ~tulc h' o h'e •\\\'\ .*•·':'~ h T · · th gym has •t· d' f Af i a the haz ' '.. · · · evenmg by · nngmg WI 1 1m IS mcrae. From 1 9 2 5 to 1926, he was w en errace can .use e . . s1 10 1seases o .. r c , -. pletion of 'its mission last. Friday, . . . · 'k. : . Jl. .raduates president of the Chamber. been made, and If a UniOn .man ards to health ansurg aut of the included Mr Harold Van d'e Car fnte sons, .. ll ewise a g .. cannot gain access to the floor, he poor !ivi.ng conditions, and the · Bur·sar Dn\'a' ld· Holmes· Professo;. of the college, Mr. Wright has been a Trustee of M w· • rt H '\'• ' Union College since 193 ()_ l::Ie is should see .. r. Ittner. . high rate of infant mor~a 1 y. . e Carl S:chmidt, .and Wilford· Ketz, ·ContinUing his address, Ptofes· DESK-LA.MPS Adjustable · also a member of the Board of Di· :M;r. Morr1s reported on reduced· also plans to ·speak on such topiCS coordinatOJ:· of studeht acti-vities. sor Larrabee asked, \Is. doUbting rectors of Ellis Hospital, a director railroad rates. He found out ~l!at of general interest in relation to' The · strtdent members included· .to be permitted henceforth only in, of the Schenectady Trust Com• a. 25% reduction can be obtamed Africa as polygamy, control of 'na- Harold Olsen Richard. Hoffman, the sciences? Are American cole P an. y, and has been on 'the City for any group . o.f th~ee or more. tive children, the psychol?gy of the Herbert .Spira', and Norman Scull. lege faculties and student bodies· ·rne qnly prov1s1on 15 that they natives, and how the diet of the · 0 • -to be divi!;j.ed into scientists,. who Incandescent and Fluotesce;!nt l->lanning Commission since its in· rmust travel together both ways. region affects the health of the Qlioi;es of the Week ·a.re a:lloWed to ask questions and ception in 1924. F'or groups of 25 or more a special natives, illustrating his talk with Heard al'o'und the office: upset applecarts, and students of SAVE SUPPLY CO. rear with a 28% reduction can be color slides taken on his trip. '\I'his week we· worlt on Cicco· humanities and social studies, ·Who· :obtained. This reduction applies Dr. Winne, who has traveled ex- lella.\-Sports Dept. 'are to be suffo~ated under a 50 I State St. ' PHONE 6-41 q3 Faculty Downed in Bridge Tourney .for one way passengers. . tensively in Liberia, the Belgian Hearci. around the_campus: ·b!anlnO>t of conformity? If so,. then · . The e:bove are the regular ra1.l· Congo, and West Africa, was born· \It's okay that you 'have·69 cuts, i'th~t is the formul~ for the. ?re- . road d1scounts, b~t Mr. Morns in Schenectady in 1913. He was we won't hold -it against you.\ 1 .at10n of a tech.mc. ~llY. effi.m:nt thinks he can obtam even greate.r Educated at Nott Terrace High -C.' W. H. •orthodoxy, a tot!l,htariamsm wh1ch The second student faculty rsavings on group travel. He es~1- School; then he attended College, bridge tournament was held Wed- mates that 40 people came by tram and completed his education at nesday night, :;-nd . the students ;from the New Yor~ area for !he Cornell University. again emerged v1ctonous by a con- •prom, and a considerable savmg siderable margin. Roger Merrill 'Can be effected with some organi- and Marv Boris tied for first place :z;ation. with Mart Hauser and Pete Adler The Survey Committee inter- in the match, and the faculty ran :viewed Walter Hoffman, station well behind. Professors Bacon and manager of WRUC • on Friday. Schaeffer of the chemistry depart- 'Hoffman thought that the station's ment finished first for the faculty- main problem was one of inexperi- and third in the tournament. -ence. He felt that the former Boris didn't compete in t:he last policy of training each man for tournament, but Adler, Hauser, ancl. just one job left the station with Merrill were three of the four win- !tittle or no flexibility; he is trying ners in that one too. to eliminate that factor. In general, the students have · A.lbert Barsamian, investigating been far superior so. far this year, tbe unpleasant smell of College· but the faculty will try for revenge .Creek, has found its source to be in December, and there will be ap- the city sewage system. Apparent- proximately one tournament a' ly, on the weekends, pe()ple don't month after that. use as much water as during the weelt, causi1:1g some sewage to John Scott ••• enter the brook. Since the city : denies this, nothing can be done about it. --The subject was dropped. Jerome Cohan reported that little progress had been made in bis attempt to get the Circle K Club to undertake the printing and distribution of basketball pro- <Continued from Page 1) the speaker in chapel and talke<l· on the problem of the rebui'lding of a strong Europe. Germany seemed,, in his opinion, to be the center for a sort of federated European state, deemed by many the ultimate an- swer to the European problem. He: pointed out that France has Paris, but little ·else to offer such an organization, lacking the political stability and industrial potential necessary for leadership. No othEr country, obviously, is in a.ny posi· tion to assume a dominant role in the formation of so controversial an organization. Germany, then, stands alone as the center, both pollt:ically and economicll.lly, of a free United Europe. Distribution of the newly pul>· lished catalog for the academi-c year 1953-54 to schools, coileges; Jibraries, interested alumni, an<! others is now underway. Copies will be available to prospective students through the Director of Admissions. A limited numbN. of additional copies will i>e available to interested individ· uals or groups an:d may be ob- tained by writing the office of the Recorder, Union College, Schenect·ady 8, N. Y. grams. CAMPUS CULLINGS Nmses Lead Dromedaries .A recent survey by an impartial polling agency shows that nine out of ten doctors prefer nurses. I see their point. A lit nurse is bet- ter than any OLD cigarette. :(. :(. ¥- Masty Thought for the Week Pat Ward is entering the tele- vision field with a new show, \I Jove loosely .•. \ :f. :f. :f. From the Wesleyan Argus He 'Whispered sweet nothings in b.er ear as they sat secluded, those two. .And he muvmured, \I feel like I've known yo~ for years.'\ And she replied, \You certainly do.\ (Ed. Note: We can't figure this one out-maybe you can.) AtM. B.Grca11bart & Sons \Famous for Diamonds\ (the perfect place for the perfect diamortd) You arG also invifed to use .()ur repair service. Utmost care is taken by our .skilled wor~ers to give you every reason to be pleased. Meeting of the Union College · Student Society · of Mecliap.lcal Engineers, Tuesday November 24, at 8:00 p.m. The speaker . ' will be Mr. Martin Berlyn whose topic will be Diesel De- velopment and Research. RB\ freshments will also be served. All Mechanical Engineers are cordially invited. \What do you hear when it comes to Beer!\ UTICA CLUBI You hear It every• where bocauaelt's unique In· its ex• collence. lighter, drier and less filling too-so It ogree1 with you! Gat UTICA CLUB today at selected stores and taverns, The Wist End lr•wlng C~., Utica, N. Y. fiNEST PILSENER BEE.R XXX CREAM ALE • THE TASTIEST BEER IN TOWN WEST END BREWING CO. 2 Crescent Street · Schenectady,. N~ Y. Tel. 4·6612 · This germanium refining :method keeps impurities down to less than 5 parts in a billion In this refining apparatus, e~t Western Electric's A/l~ntown, Pa. plant, germanillnl i.s passing through multiple heating zones in tandem, prodllcing a. bar contain- ing impurities of Jess than.S parts in a billi~n }or use in trami;ltors. Note heating coils on the horizontal quartz tube. A new method· of metal refining, currently in use at the Western Electric plant at Allentown, results in the production of germanium that is better than 99.9999995,% pure~ the highest degree of purity ever attained in a manufactured product. The need for germanium of such exceptional purity came about when research by Bell Telephone Lab- oratories in the field af semi-conductors led to the development of trapsistors, whicha.te manufactured by Western Electric._ The transistor \is a tiny crystal device which can amplify and oscillate. It .reduces space require- ments and'power.consumption to a minimum. Germanium crystals of the size required in transis- tors do not occur in nature; they are artificially grown at Western Electric. At this stage in trans is• Various forms which gennaniwn takes before being used in transistor!l are shown•in this plzoro. Bur at top is an ingot .()j germanium after reduction from germanimn dioxide. Next is shown the germanium ingot alter the zone refinin'IJ process .used by Western E}ectric. Below the ingots are shown 3 gennmzirtm crystals grown· by ;nzqchine, 6 slices .cur from (fuse crystals,.and several·'hundred germanium wafers ready for assembly il!to transistors. tor manufacture, other elements .are introduced in microscopic quantities to aid in controlling the flow ·of electrons through the germanii,un. But b.efpre these elements can be introduced, it is necessary to start with germanium of exceptio:Ii.al purity, so-that the impl.!rities will not interfere \'ith the elements that are deliberately added. So Bell Telephone Laboratories devised an en- tirely new method of putificatiol:l, Jmown as zone refining, which was developed to a high-productioQ stage by Western Electric engineers, In zone refining a bar of germanium is passed through a heat zone so that a ill<>lt-en section trav- erses the-length of the bar carrying the impurities ' with it and leaving behind a s~lilliiled section of higher purity. By the use of multiple heating zones in tandem, a number of moiten sections traverse the bat. :Each reduces the imp.urity content thus producing a bar whiCh contains impurities in the amount of less than five parts per billion. Because·of the importance of the tra!l.sistor in eleC- tronics, the zone refining ,proe>ess -llke so many other Western Electfic devel0}1!Dents-has been made available to companies licensed by Western Electric to manufacttlre transist<>rs~ This is one more example of creative engineering by Western Electric .men. Engineers· of all skills- mechanical, electrical, chemicnl, mctustrial, metal· Iwgical, and civil- are needed to belp us show the way in fundamental manufact'1:1iii\g. tel::hniqu~s. .I ManufactUI·in·g,:planiS in Chicago, I iii • l<earn)l, N. J, • Baltiml)re, Mel. • India napoli~, lnd: • Allentoivrl·&.:lcaurelclale, Pea, •- B11~ llngtilr'!t Greensboro & Winston-Salem, N.C. • 'B~ffalo, N.Y. • ·Haverhill & ~awreneG,Mass. • Lincolo,. Neb_ ·• 'St. Paul & buluth, 'Mi~n. Distributing Centers in 29 cities and: Installation headquarters in 15 cities. Company heildqisarlers, 195 llr.:~~«d_.ily, N•w YIOrk . .City;, -- Vol. V: 0: 1\iQh: be a in o: heh \A..t of th will conju series willa day ( 'f?eing renee par.tn colleg by D1 Mr. au tho stude1 hts le ravel ekplai pollc::y C()UrSI have DUI Sheea OnM of East \Ame Tuesc:l ernm1 llsh a with Club, confe: staff the t stgne1 tact 1: and il Vin Unive the F war c he w• the H of A1 respo1 He·se -sion c WoriC a con menb Sheea is be: biogr1 Ligb,t, Ne' Se~ OIJ Blacl G~r prin1 f~:~,vo: tion. pape facec aid i conti M~: tor o: .that quent sen till $mall added bers to· co: least has a• In pa.per rep lie tiling issues pub!is tions Met and ] the :f the i no ·of Roy· board might thirds the sl The SllbSCJ tHty, to .er raise tim.!!. stude1 fee.

