: I~ 'OBSERVATIONS'' . FO.R FROSH READ PAGE 2 • •• y I I ' Fou.ndsd at Union College in 1817 Voi. 84, No. 1 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., SEPTEMBER 24,195~ Garnet To Meet Vermont I PaulBurlin Un.ion Pla.ys Host To Addresse~ 106 Foreign Help Students Convocation Union's 160th school year had its formal opening on T1:1esday, Sept. 21, as Mr. Paul Burliu, Visiting Professor of Art, addressed the Convoca- tion audience o-n \Culture as a Hobby.\ Mr. Burlin's ad- dress followed the introduc- tion of the Ii.ew faculty mem~ · bers by Dr. Davidson. The seventh year of the Union College Help Student program got under way this week when six of the seven for- eign students .arrived on campus. This year's students are ~Richard Besser:..Hess, Antoine Professor B u r 1 in .admonished arrateur painters :who, because they are able to copy a subject onto a canvas, ·call themselves art- ists. \Arr·.ateur art has become big time,\ he declared. \The bottom has dropped out. The amateur painter has become big busines& and the hu()ksters have taken ,over.u Function of an Artist \A true artist,\ he pointed out, \doesn't copy; he invents.\ He listed the chat•acteristics necessary to a good painting as motive, in- vention, metaphgr, color and form, and the mystery of space. \Let's be culturally knowledgea:ble,\ he · said, \not culturally literate.\· A professor at Washington Uni- versity, St. Louis, for: the past sev- eral years, Mr. Burlin is here under a program by the John Hay Whit- ney foundation. He will give a new course in Design and Paint- ing. Considered ·one of the nation's CampttsChest Beg-ins Drive . Kusel, Harry Antti Collin, Palle Winston Seierson, Robin J. Gundry, Jose Espindola- . Cavalcante, Kim Hong Wha, and Harry Collin arrived early . enough to take part in the · Freshrnan Camp activities at Pilot Kn0b. foremost artists, Professor Burlin. The Union College Campus Chest has ex.hihited his works in New began its annual fund-raising drive Yol.'k, Munich, Los Angeles, the for charity at registration, Septem- University of Minnesota, and ber 17 and 18. The seven-man Southern Illinois 'U'niversity. His committee composed of Jerry Co- paintings can be seen at the Metro- han, chairman, Ron Cline, Al Cox, politan Museum of Mo.dern Art, Al Green, Frank Rocco, Doug the Whitney Muse'Uim, the Brooklyn Seholm, and! Professor Neal Allen, Museum, the Encyclopedia Britan- faculty advisor, w-ill apportion and ni.ca, the State Department, and distribute the donations given to Washington University. the Campus Chest, and :wHl also New Faculty M:embers distribute the money that 'WaS don- The new faculty members are: at:ed to specified organizations. Patrick Kilburn, Assistant Profes- This year, the Campu:s Chest 'jl'iill sor of English; William Olden- donate funds to five major chari- broolt, Instructor In German; H. ties: Alan Nelson, Instructor in English; 1. The World .University Service Richard Mendenhall, Insttuctor in is an organization which grants aid Sociology; Charles J. S!,and.is)l, .As- to students in foreign ccHllltries· on sistant Professor of Mathematic&; a non-political and non-secta.rian Raymond Eisenstadt, Assistant· basis. Professor of Mechanical Engineer- 2. The United! Negro College ing; Gifford Wingate, Assistant Fund conarerns itself 'W'ith financial Professor of Speech and Dra- . aid to all-Negro colleges in the matics; Robert Raleigh, Associate southern United .states. Professor of Hygiene, Director of 3. The National Scholarship the Health Service, Assistant Coach Service and Fund. for Negro Stu\ of Football, and Freshman Basket- dents :aids stud-ents enrolled in in- ball Coach; Alan Mozley, Assistant terracial colleges, Professor of Biology; Thomas Hoff~ 4 . The Union College Interna~ man, Associate Professor of Elec- tiona! Recoruitr:uction Fund, in con- tdcal Engineering; :and Van Vran- junction with the World Council ken DesForges, Instructor In Mech- of .Churches and the .American anical Drruwing. ·Friends Service Committee, Jlro- New Field o . House vide,s tran~portation to and from W'Ork camps overseas. 5. The Schenectady Community Near Completl •on· Chest distribUites its funds to worthwhile local and national \The Union College Field House agencies. is proceeding according to schedule To date, over one thousand dol- and should ·be complet-ed by De- lai.\e have already :Jleen collected cem'ber of this year-,'' stated Theo- by the Campus Chest, and there is dore Mcilwaine, Union's Business still four hundre<l dollars in QUt- Manager. The- n!l'W' $472,000 field standing pledge11 that will 'be col- house will represent two firsts in lected -by Novem:ber 15. The com- engineering. Its laminated arches mitt:ee is planning to supplement have the longest arc ever bUilt the contributions by sponsoring from timber, meas:uring 254 feet ·either an auction or: a faculty show froni tip to tip and having an ac· someti:me dmring the spring sem- tua.l span of 190 feet. It also will. ester. ]lave the first commercial 400 cycle lighting system, Faculty Members Receive Promotion The three contra.tcors for .the construction of the 'building which was begun last April, are Union !!!.lurimi, Class of 1942. They are Donald Brocklwehl; John McManus, Eight faculty members received and Fred Longe. promotions during the summer The sports arena. :will have a 50 month, . five of them earning the yard straightaway track; and a rank of •Full Professor. Harold G. tenth of a mile track. It will pro- Avery, Departi:nent of Mathe- v!de facilities for most sports wtith matics; .Alfred T. Goble, Depart- the ·exception of swimming. Bleach- ment of :Physics; Wilford H. Ketz, ers will be installeei for the benefit Director of .Athletics; Oar! Nie-, of the spectators -at the events t~ meyer; DeJ)artment of English, and b~ held there, ·but at the present Frederick, J, H. Burkett, Depart- time, the seating capacity Is un~ :it\ent of Mathematics, were those known. so awarded. ' • In .. ATHLETIC CHANGES READ PAGE 3 PRICE' 10 CENTS Qpener ~Dutchmen Eleven :z;;:aJ%~ To Feature Strong Passing Attack By Bob Hammerling Tomorrow afterrwon the Union College football squad renews their old rivalry with a powerful University of Ver~ mont team in the season's opener. This series goes back , to 1900 with Union winning 11, losing seven and tying . two. The last game between ·the two teams was in 1949 :when an undefeated Union squad ti·ounced the Cata~ mounts 26-7.

2 <ttnurnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press a.nd distrib- utor of the Collegiate Digest. National Ad ver- tlalng Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publlshers Representative, 42() Madi- son Ave,~ N. Y. C. Pub- l!ah:ed every Friday of the school year. Editorial Otl'lce, Washbum Hall, Union ·College, Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State· St. Entered In ~he Schenec- tlidy Post Office as Sec- ond Class M.all Matter, sul;lsarlption lOa a copy; $3 a year delivered any- where In the United States. SENIOR. BOARD GARY R. KATZ '55 .............. 2-3611 ................. Editor-In-Chief ARTHUR F.E:LDMAN '65 ......• .'6-9959 •• ,, .•••••.•.• Buskless Man~ger JERR.OLD I. HillSCHEN '67 .... 6-9344 ................... News Ed 1 fgr ROGER J. MERRILL '66 ......• ,.6-9540.. . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . Sports Ed r JOSEPH HOLLINGER '56 ....• ,6-9814 •••........ Circulation Manager JUNIOR. BOARD C.ALV1N KNICKERBOCKER '67 ••••• , •••• , ••• Assistant Sports Editor EDWARD LA.NGHOI.JZ '67 ...................... Assistant News Ed! tor EDWARD CLOOS, JR.. '67 ••........•.....•.• Assistant Feature Editor MARTIN ZIMMERMAN '56 ................................ Copy Editor ALFRED NADEL '66 ......... ~ ....... , , • , Assistant Business Manager l'l.ALPH M.ANIES '57 .•.••• , .•..•••••.•..••..•• , , •••. Photography E~!tor· ROBERT SCHARF 'oS ............. , . . . . • . . . . .. .. . . . .. . . .. . . Art E !tor ARTHUR F~RICANT '56 •. , .•. , •..•..•.. Associate Exchange Edt tor REPORTERS Albert Barsamian, Not-man Hartner, Bernard Berkowitz, :'\oah Berley, Charles Ca.r.J, Robert Chesanow, llan·y Fet·tik, Thot?as G;rusky, Jack· son Goddard, Philip Goodman, Robert Ha,mmerh'?g, I eter Jatl~w. Steven Knafel, Ronald Le1•ine. Robert '-IIIahner, Dtrk :llenard,_ Mtke Miller Joel Plattner Howard Hosencrant>~, Robert Roth, AI bet t Sah vato 'Philip Schaeffe;. Alan ::>chiffman, John Sherwood, Alan Shucard, Martin Stein, Simon Ste1·tzer, Iloward Voss, Bart·y \Volfensohn. BUSINESS STAFF .Arthur Brenner .Stanley Forwand, Alan Greene, Frederic Grosse, Robert Lewis, James i:/pero, Joseph :llartorano. CffiC'UL.A.TION STAFF Alan .Chesler, Bernard Cohen, Fred Roberts, Martin Stein, Charles Walkoff, Norman B. York. FRESH:UA:N REPORTERS Martin Bender Joseph Esty, ll'a Fielding, Charles Haekenyos, Albert Katz, Dan Pa.pernik, Paul Hasen, Norman Str!cklantl. Where's West College I 1' I '58 I Cl 41 FiR.IDAY, SEPTEMBER 24. 1954 ::.::-:::- .::: ... ,.·.·;;,:: ...... • .. :· ... ~- **- ................. \\ •• . .... ...,.. .......... ~ .. ~·\\\\' Tulips and. Chimneys :By Edward Cloos, Jr. :;::::..·~.-=· ...... ~. ·'::-~---~· -. .... ... Now is the time for all good to come and join the Pll.rty. Now unen to come and join the party. is the .time to ·knoW' people-lots So goes the chant of the 19 year of people, all kinds, all types (eve11 . old boys who run a'bout exuding the T. and C. type)-yo.u•n not only an extraorclinary amount of that ,get to meet the Dean' (and prob- peculiar ·brand of psuedo-sophisti~ .ably even Prexy) you m-ay some cation found only in the so'[lho- day get to be one. Sous les lois de more. All sophomores are sopho- M!nerve nons devenons tons i'·reres. marie. This, spa,ce,. a. sophomo1·e, o is probably not less so· (but let's not get h~to personalities.) \The 1 ' party is, of course, the fra;terllity. Who but a boy in a beany would join one of these happy little horr~es of gregarious egghead-ism?, No one-but it really doesn't matter because all of the boys are wearing beanies. Campus Cullin.gs The mother was adm'onishing her child. \Do you know wha~ J;lappens to little bo.ys Who tell lies?\ \Yes they ri·de on the bus for half-fare.\ :;. :;. V{o' 'Culled from t'he Vet-mont Cynic: Son: Felll:). told me today that I 'looked like you. Father:·Isn't that nice. And what die]: YOl1 say? Son-: Nothing. He was a lot big- ger'n me. :;. :;. :;. Tlle Holy Cros.s \Tomahawk\: An aPPlicant for a ,position said his fathC~r was alive. \O<;:cupation ?\ \He paints.'' \Oh he's an artist?\ \Well not eXa.ctly • . • he paints inside buildings.\ \O'h he's a mural decorator.\ \·NO; no, he paints ·men and Now is also .the tirp.e for ,r,enew- ing. The faoulty g!llsts off the olU jokes, renew:s them a bit, tells them to the bright iiew: faces, and die- mayed finds them all \too -su'btle.\ So it goes. There are all sorts of other renewals. Duli courses, have new dead dull books Cfn fresh new covers), The Idol, gloriously gro- tesque, has a new coat of paint (Fresh paint the Idol until they get to be bigger boys and begin to play 'With matches-then they burn it). Now is the time to re- new the call f.or More School S.pirit. Not a quiet and genuine pride in the intellectual of Union, but a juvenile sort of screami'ng, cheer- Ing, stannping, shouting blind \love\ of dear old Union. This is forgot- O<;.~t.. .... C ten at the end of Football season; -.~ How nice. WOinen.\ - \Tllen he's a portrait painter?\ \No he paints men on one door and women on tbe other.'' The Road Ahead ============================= Now is the time for all good men Last year about this time President Davidson outlined a series of objectives which the administration would atten:1pt to pursue during the coming year. At the end of the year we reviewed these goals in the light of our progress. We believe that it is a sound idea to once again present our administrati<m's aims for this coming year. Certainly every university has its pr~blem,s. I~ is. good for ~he stu- dents to realize that the Presidents office IS also cognizant of this, and is at the same time working towards eventual solutions. Further, a university is not a stagnant .society: it is g-rowing with its times. Many of u~ !I-re apt to hold our administrators unawares of such conditions and such needs. It is the purpose of such a policy as we al'e now adopting to show the students that the President and the Trustees have a program and realize the needs of the college community. President Davidson once again presented an eig'ht point program some of which are the same as those of last year; however these are objectives which are reached neither by the wa..Je of a hand nor other simple means. They have tenure and a1·e not problems. which we should avoid. We must work on them, for only by diligent labor and attention can we report any progress over the years. 1. We should attempt to integrate the Fiel<). House into our college life. The \Var Memorial Field House is nearing completion. We are now hoping that the building will be ready for our use by this Christmas. This will mean that the second half of the basketball season will find our home court in the new building; the Field House will then be put to use by the base- ball and track teams for theb spr1ng training programs. The Field House was created for a purpose and only by applying its o1iginal intent will it assume its tremendous value to the college. 2. We must bring m~re students into our athletic pro- gram. There is the hope that we may extend our winter athletic program which now includes only three sports. We are thinking of b1inging rifle and wrestling teams into the col- lege's winter program. The administration Js als? wor~ng on the idea of instituting winter track, or remstatmg skung if the demand arises from the students. • 3. Secure f\lnds for a new Library building. Little progress has been made over last year and we are still a long way off fl·om the sum necessary to begin thinking seriously in this direction. 4. To expand the integration of Engineeling and the Li beraJ Arts. At present, sixteen students are em·olled in the newly initiated five year course. We are hoping to increase that number in the coming years. 5. To bring Faculty, Students, and Administration in· to closer Personal Relationships. Union as a small school has always provided the oppor- tunity for closer ties amongst these groups. The Tippe- canoe Conference which will pl'Obably be held this fall has also done much to better these relationships. 6. To mal{e Fine Arts a permanent program. • By Alan Shucard Dear Freshman, You learn a few things in a year -things, I mean, aside from reasons for the decline of the Ro- man Empire, or the mysteries in- volved in the proficient use of a slide rule, or the secret of butcher- ing an unborn pig. I'm no· wise guy, no great-shakes, no B.T.O. _or make-out man-no, not even one of the hundreds of big-'Irlen,on- campus. I've not found out much, and what I have discovered I don't pretend to understand.. But if you have finished snickering over the cartoon and don't mind hearing ad- vice for the thousandth time since you got here, then listen to some of these erudite observations and talte them for what they',re worth. Just don't expect to get much for them in a hock shop. Don't be fooled ·by any impres- sion you get O.uring rushing that one fraternity outclasses all the others you've seen. One house may need a coat of paint more than another, but they are all about the same. The important thing is to join one-any one. If one house has a few more lice than the rest, and you figure you're a pretty lousy guy yourself, pledge that one. But for God's saki\ pledge some- where, becausE> I'll tell you what happens to little men who don't. They are snub-bed in a hudred little ways. They are pegged as intro- verts and looked upon as outcasts. The guy who used to talk to them at Freshman Camp or in the dorm nods pleasantly to them noow as he walks by. The upper classmen who were the long-lost brothers during rusliing just look through them, because no\\\ they're jerk- ball, non-conforming squirts. They're socially up the creek, too -with no way to get back down. Without a fraternity party there isn't much they ban do with a date around here. Prom weekends are for the fraternity men and the blz:ds, not for them. There is nothing to do before or after the formal, and they can't even sit d•Qiwn during t!le dance because the fraternities have everything sewn up on their hip pocket-right be- side the flask. Yes, ,freshman, this above all: join a fraternity-any goddam one at all, but join one. Why? Hell, I told you I didn't have the answers. It's just the thing that Joe College does, isn't that enough? It's like war and death and dis- ease. It's in the nature of things, Take a good look at the Dean when you see him in chapel or walking on ca.mpUB. You see, fresh- man, you won't get much ·Chance to see him otherwise. You can talk to him because, like Prexy, he's accessi·ble, but chances are you won't have occasion to speak to him unless you face expulsion or, even worse, get yourself reported boy Mildred Doyle fat• not wearing a tie to d!inner in West College. Perhaps you think he ought to get to know more men in this pretty small school - maybe :prevent !'ather than handle discipline cases. Well, listen here, fl'eshman, our dean is one of the best, and that's no apple polis•h. It's just that most deans just don't do things like that, that's all. It isn't done. Why? Look, little man, w•hy is a cow! Christ had to face a cross, fresi1- man, Adam the serpent, Moses the Pharoh, and you a year of gym. It isn't really so terrible though, all kidding aside, and, if you be- come an obedient mental midget for three hours a week and SIW'eat in silence, the good professors won't 'bother yo·u any more t:han the next gu\Y. Just :pray hard that they aren't riding the hell out of him. If you've adopted the movie or F. Scott Fitzgerald picture of col- lege life, you're in for a rude, If somew·hat gradual, awakening. For- give my party-pooping, but school is something less than reading the .books you want to read and thrash- ing out views of Ufe in tile class- room with a professor who glosses the text in his own brilliant yet mundane manner. You find little of that, I'm afraid, and not many classmates with whom you C® carry on such discussions. You mustn't be too shocked when you find out how many of them never heard of those books and don't give more of a da.mn about life than how they can commit a crocJr of mossy facts to memory by the next exam. They don't care abo'llt the facts either except that they are a means to an end-an M.D. degree or a B.S. In engineering. All right, freshman, it's your turn to go through it now. Just don't ever let yourself question whether the end justifies the means; beca1J1Se w·hen you start doubting that, you're in trouble. And never W'Onder about systems or methods or pow>ers that be or what spark has 'been extinguished that ma,kes a man dead one mo- ment who was alive the instant 'before. It just is, that's all . It's in the nature of things. It is hoped that the course in creative drawing and ricular activities and maintain a high interest in campus life. painting might Temain a permanent course at Union after The Mountebanks under Professor Wingate will attempt this year's visit by Dr. Burlin. to present a series of shorter one or two act plays in order to 7. To help the fratemities clarify and obtain their give more men a chance to partake in the activity. social and educational objectives. . . . . These. are the goals of the administration for the coming The administration voiced a strong VIew agamst mtoler- year. The Concordiensis will at various times throughout ance within many national fratemities today. We must not the year comment on them, assess the work bei:tig done on destroy those fraternities frorn without by outlawingbigotted them, or })ropose other aims for the administration to con- ones, but we must seek to correct them from within. side!·. We will in addition welcome any comments from There are now two fraternities in the dorms; we will members of the student body on any issue throughout the try to move them into houses. year. The mailbox in our door is always open; 8. ·We must try to get 1n<1re freshmen into extra-cur· -G. It. K. ' L. G. BALFOUR 0'0~ I Now Available I Fraternity Jewelers UNION COLLEGE BADGES- RINGS -1-l'AVORS JEWELRY LEATHER.GhFTS JACKETS STATIONERY- PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS C.ontact MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call BOB CHARTOFF \CARL SORENSEN Phi Sigma Delta 2-3611 30 Murray Ave., ·waterford, N. Y, . PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-2523 Give yourself this Start-of-the- Term Quiz It will help you get better grades on your end-of-the-term • qu1zzes Sharpen your pencil and scratch your head for a few moments. This \quicki.e\ quiz will save you a lot of head- scratching, hair-pUilling and sleepless nights when those all- important finals come up at the end of the term. 1. The New York Times brings you more news than any other newspaper. 2. The New York Times has the biggest staff of reporters and eorrespondents of any newspaper. 3. The New York Times has 100 corre- spondents overseas in all important world capitals. \ ' .oil. The New York Times has the biggest Washington bureau of any newspaper. 5. The New York Times has the biggest sta·ff of sports. writers of any news- paper. 6. The New York Times prints more of the news you need to help you in your courses. 7. Faculty members in colleges all over the U. S, read The New York Times and recommend it to their students. 8. Reading The New York Times every day can help you get better grades, and keep you interestingly informed. True False 0 0 0 0 0 D 0 0 0 0 0 D 0 D 0 0 Answers: 11 you answered\true\ to au the questions, you get 100%. And you'll get a. lot closer to 100% on the exams that zeally cotuit, if you read The New Yorlc Times every day to keep up with the news that will help you in your class work. You'll' enjoy reading. The Times, too ... its colorful sports pages, the movie, stage and bQok reviews, the . food and fashion' page; the daily ,crossword puzzle. To get The Times cleliveted right to your room every day, get in touch with t.Oiir. 'Thriea campus representative: · ···~ FRIDAY;~ Fac Be:fJ .Athl ·startling as the :vc of Athiet ialize. II gram we: '_( . ·· \ Alexande work on the leveU parking 1 Achilles J :Alumni 1 ;,' :~ fice constr, futther im: '' and ·reHni: ··· floor with ; ,' ,,. wax. A 1a1 in the ba.:: and is un• Fitz. .A,lexande the sc~;Jne A new I scoreboard cost of $~ construGtec its use foz ·a sepatate .. ,' ed in the ball. The ·• installed. a lacrosse ·az The sta; have been make mor• on the fift on the we. been at-rar formation ing fron:i · The stude side of tl press box. Mr. Ke1 Vermont by station Burlington wilt br()ad Ketz also letie: dep~ with the l Commerce to all chi: fourteen 3' To fadl all student gates. A 1 building v coupoiJ.s o Bailey Ea ~ - ... ·dents witJ:: ' ~ .. ,. i J•• J· i l I ,. L~~:'\'-; I ·; (. ~ \' r t I, Verm (Coni and shou1 defense. 'Georg-e· post oat fLi fU:! run.Ii.i?IJ hoUlSe th~ foot, 180 ·:P At fullb start his f petition. a foot, 174 I a hard r player. COiaiCh I t'hese met in tomorr Schappert end; Die cen:te~: l Jim. Feld mott In fr The ou1 seaosn is ln the lit men very if ~om.e linemen il have a g 'I1in:ni Mi: Chandier a little m The ba wit'h sucll meir, Mel .Athletic has is!me UiT.M aiu s~ctlon Iii: served fo all Uhior: rootiiig <Y. a.sked th: tJhe rul~ liquor in.1 This t'Ule Annll 'l'he se >-·- Cup tenor on the 'li : 1 I ~Week of · . .,, nounced -:::: Prof. Jol: All stt '· eligible f te11nis le are espe< entry sh• 'bUlletin 1 the gym\ in to Co Chapel.

1954 ....... ..,... I ... Now pie-lots es (even not only ·prob- some lois de i'·reres. her happens bus for that I what lot big- said paints en and ne door 8-2523 es 3 Faceliftfng _Operation Be:gins Ketz' P olfcies Fieldhouse Nears Completion Booters Begin Drills For Tough Schedule .Athletic facilitie~ on the Union campus underwent a ·startling facelifting dtrring the course of this past summer as the :policies of Wilford Ketz, rec~ntly appointed Director of Athietics, began to mater-'• As the 1954 Union Colleg-e soccer team reported for its first formal practice on Sept. 2'1, Coach Franz Gleich faced a . rebuilding job of tremendous proportions. 1\Iissing from last ialize. Included in this pro- ~I,IIIIUIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllts'. gram were. t!tE! renovation. of ~ p. u· 'l·s·e· b· : eat §. Alexander Fteld, construction = · 5. work on the fieldhouse, . !;lnd § 'PY § Fall Practice :For Stiekers the leveling of the. old .ALCO .5 Roger Merrill § - Last Wednesday Coach Ray Mul- parkin,g lot that Will result ih illllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUII~ lane met with returning lettermen A h '11 F' ld · · ·and .prospective -candidates for .the · C 1 . es l8 • .Just abOut a. year ag~ .today this: Union. Lacrosse team. He an- Alumni gymnasium, scene of of- paper cft,me· out. At that time, we. .nounced plans to hold fall prac- ', ;~ fice construction. in the spring, was .bjad a. different editor, a different . tice for the sole purpose of irnprov- further improved with the cleaning sporf;s. editor, and a decidedly. dif~: ing- the tea:ms stick handling •year's team which compiled a 3-5-1 record were goalie Carl Paulson, fullbacks Joel Gitlin and Don Zenger, halfback Carl Reinitz, and linemen Graham McNaughton, George Pasqua!, and Hallvard Osberg who was last year's leading scorer. The lettermen returning from '' and reHnishing of the basketball. ferent football team. Arormd then P.ictured above is the inside of the yet rmcomplete4 war mem- abl.lity. Coach Mullane said that · .. - · floor ·with a new type of non-skid 'We were making sarcas~c co111- orial fieldhouse. The ground breaking took place last May and it is even though t):le team won the ,, wax. A laundry has been installed 'IIII8nts about the then ·doUibt£ul ap- now hoped that constructwn will be completed by Christmas. Class c championship last spring, . ·last year's team include only Dick Carpenter, Jerry Jameson, Barry Wolfensohn, John Wurster, Dudly W0odbury, and James Clark. How- ever, with only these six lettermen returning, the team's outlook is still bright. Foreign stadents have greatly helped the team with Dave Strachen, the exchange student from St. Andrews, who, it appears from these first early practices, will be of great benefit to the team. Also of great help should be Win- ston Seiersen from Denmark, and Harry Collin from Finland who will protect our nets from the goalie position. in the basement of the building, 'pearance of a. :fi~ldhouse or any- · be was not at all pleased with the and is under the direction of Ed' thing tha,t even resembled same. h E sticl,handling. Mullane is hoping Fitz. Tb,ere were als& C()mplaints about . Fros: ·. . 'a: g, ~r ·,· Vet\ et .. ans .. ~v:z·z that fall practice will correct this Alexander Field has also been the condition of the gym floor and \., · ·· ·· · f · ._; ·: weakness. the. scene of many improvements. the ,~ost embal.Tassing ineffi-· 0 A new remote control electric cienc}y of the seoreboa.rd on Alex- 34 .. T: ry ·u· .t • H.· e·lp Ha.rr·z·,·ers Missing from last year's cham- scoreboard has-' been installed at a ander field. pionship squad are All-American b d · · . rr.ddfielder Bill Hall, AI DeSantis, cost of $2500. The score oar IS Well things have changed. A Ross Saddlemire, Joe Wilkinson, constructed in sections to facilitate good s'tart has peen .made on the This past tTuh escday; thfir~ 5 Y 8 ·four The Union College cross-country its use for other sports. There is members. of e lass o re- :Don Matteson, and Jerry Ryan. \a sepatate face that Will be install- field house, and work is continu- ported for ·:Freshman football. As· team began training last week,, Coach Mullane is hoping that the , ed in the gymnasium for basket- ing. The gym floor has 'been re• yet there has been no Qppoortunity with bright prospects of bettering fall practice· 'VIill bring forlh able ''· ball. The old scoreboard will be finished, and we have a new score-· to get ·a line on the individual last year's record of three wins replacements for these departed ' installed. at Daley Field for use at board, o.ne with which even the players. Not only is the team big d I Th h d 1 veterans. lacrosse ·and soccer games. most cr-itical of ~s -couJd. not find ·as flU' as size is concerned, but an one oss. e sc e u e opens: Hall undoubtedly will be tbe The stands at Alexander Field fault, they are eager, enthusiastic, and on October 9, against Vermont,: hardest to replace. Bill, whil~ cap- i d t - But perhJaps the biggest changes have .Jots of spirit. ·winner of last year's dual meet, tain of last year's Garnet squad, have been rearranged n or er o ..... _,.e taken· ·plaB~ on. th~ football T. he fl·~.st g·•me of the season· \\· 1\11 a! th . h\ h - \1 bl .....,, ~ ~ ,. ~ \ and runs the traditional gaWltlet 'VIas so e · 1g · scorer, and in make more seating space ava1 a. e be ·here o·n o· ctober 23, against J t t I · th 1\' on the fifty yard line. T·he .stanqs team. ·Coach Sam. Hammerstrom of Hamilton, Middlebury, and une wen on iO Pay m e <>th d f th f . ld h now bas a more eXperienced team, New York Military Academy. The . . . annual North-South game at Free- on the west si e o e _1e · ave cad·ets had an undefeated season R.P.I., wtth the add1hon of Colgate. port, Long Island, been arranged in a slight umbrella one which bas a.Ire~y played in formation to facilitate better view-· a split T formation for a year. T,he Iast year. Their student body The squad is shaping up quite· Mullane has a host of returni·ng ing fron:i the corners of the field. backfield, despite the loss of Len plans to attend th!l game in full well, with Don Stack, John Parillo, lettel\IX\en to form the. nucleus of The student block is on the east· Klingberg is stronger than it was. force this fall. The away games and Al MacKennon composing a the defending champions. Ba.ck side of the field 'Under the ·new a yea 1 • ~go. There is backfield .are with the, Morrisville Aggies on strong nucleus of veterans. Stack, this year will be Dave Gregory a.nd P . ress box. : depth, mostly due to graduates October 30, and the R.P.I. fresh- who captained last year's harriers, Dick Havill, attack; Bill Rudolph, Mr. Ketz announced that the from Ia.st year's fres~ team, men Novem.lber 7. · is now in his junior year, and bar- Dom Carbone, Harry stevens, Lou · and two sophs who didn t go out Last year's freshmen had a two ring the misha;ps that plagued him Martucci, and Bob Kim in the mid- Vermont ooame will be broadcast . and one record. According to by station~ WJOY and WCAX in for the team a year. ago. There throughout the· past season, might fielcf; John McMahon and Bing Others that played last year ahd who may be counted on will be Henry Thornton, Warren Mitofsky, J'Ohn DeGoeyen, and Harry Fertik. Up from last year's freshman team • will be Steve Gluck, Howard Rosen- erantz, Mike Masin, Howard Jaffe, and John Davis. Burlington; it is hoped that WSNY has ~n a year to work oUJt the Coach Richard Ciccolella, \if t:hey well develop into one of Union's Hantington on defense; and Jerry !·.·. . . wili broadcast all our games. Mr. flwws m the system, and generally continue to show the same spirit outstanding runners. Jameson and Dan Klein in the Ketz also announced that the ath- the ·team appears better prepared as in contact work, they <lan looJt John Parillo, last year's leading goal. Coach Gleich has voiced approval of the freshman turnout. The freshmen, by continuing to practice along with the varsity, should bene- fit grpatly next year's team. How- ever, des,Pite this fine turnout .there is still room for- many more; and, therefore, any freshman inter- ested in soccer is urged to. come to • .the practice session. letie: department, in cooperation to meet another tough schedule. !~7S:~~:~ .. ~oing at least as well freshman, and a tformer Nott Ter-· Any new comers •who are inter. with the Schenectady Chamber of . Some things; however, are t~e race star, is expetced to battle Al ested In ·trying out· for ·the team Commerce, will issue free passes same. The team will' still !be the MacKennon, the past season's third can meet Coach Mullane any week- to all children in the area under. underdog almost every time it Notices man, for second position. In addi- day at 1:00 p.m: on Alexander fourteen years of age. takes the field. This is\ 'because we · tion to these veterans,. John Burr, Field. Coach Ray Mullane wlishes to This year's schedule consists of eight games of which three will be played at home. To fa.Cilitate immediate seating, are still undermanne!l on the line annolllllce that aU freshmen in• · top freshman in 1951, and now a all student must use the Bailey Hall and are a very light team. The terested in trying out for the senior, Les Sobin, last year's fifth g ates. A booth near the Chem.istry former of. these figures to be Coach man, and Don Smullins, second freshmen swimming- squad building will be for single student Hammerstrom's big pro b 1 em should report to pra.ctice at 4,:SO man on 1953's freshman squad, are --~------------------~-----------------~ CO'\IPOns only. Another booth near throughout the year. We wdll simt- pJDJ~ every afternoon ... Previol!S expected to compete for the fourth Bailey Eall will accommodate ~tu- ply not have enough linemen if we and fifth positions. · · experience in competitive swim- ' 'dents with dates. suffer more than one or two in- ming or diving is not necessa,ry, The present squad has· acquired l- · · · 0 ·juries at a tiuie. This too is an . the depth that was lacking during GAZETTE PRESS i ~ i I\ J· >- .. experienced group and can be ex- the past campaign, and in Coach V -ermont Fo·otball pected to do a good jolb. All freshmen interested iu the Bill Ketz's opinion, the top three' (Continued from Page i) and should also be a standout defense. . In. general, the team seems al· position of Candidate Ma.:nager men have improved. The only most cei'tam to better last season's o:f t~e varsity cross collntry doubtful item in the picture at the .2-5 record. team swultJ report to Gary present moment, is the freshman 01n · Katz on the gymnasium steps, team, but Dr. Raleigh has informed I started this -by commenting on Monday at 4:30. Anyone wi.!llble Coach Ketz that at least ten men 'George Wodarzak returns to his post oat rtgb.t half, He is a power- :fui rulllier and should be a work- bolllSe this yea.r. George is a six foot, 180 .pound junior. such thin,gs as the fieldhouse, the · to attend may call :Katz at have completed the physical ex- gym floor, and the S<loreboard. I'll · 2-3&11. amination for the te!l!Ill. At fullback, Dick Lounsbury will start his first game in varsity com- petition. at Union. A powerful siX foot, 114 pound sophomore, Dick is a hard runner and an alert ball player. · close the same way.-In the f&w months that he has been Director of Athletics, Bill Ketz has done an almost incredible jO>b, In addition, Mr. Ketz has com.e upo with a new and better way of distri'buting ticket!'), has gotten better lo~king tickets, an{l has arranged for dates of Union men to get into the games at half price. He has also rear- ranged the stands so that the game can be seen from a.nyowhere in them. · ·' COiaiCh Ha:m.m.erstr~m also slated t'hese men to see plenty of action in tomorrow's gatne: Rex Sa~Wyer, Schappert, guard; Joe Kimmel, What comes next? .. I don't kn~, end; Dick Allen, tackle; Dick but i:f it's ha.1f as good as what center: Ed Crotty, quarterback; bas been done, it's still terrlfie. Jim. Feldrmeir and Dave MeDer- .My hat's off to you, Bill. mott in the backfield. The outiook for the rest of the seaosn is still hazy. A few injuries 1 t l F'' tball ln the !hie coUld hurt the Dutch- n rti.mura 00 men vary .badly. On the other hand, Season T 0 Bemn if ~Qm.e of the less experienced l!'~ linemen improve t'he Garnet should Having defeated Sigma Chi last have a good year, Linemen like year in the finals, Pelta Upsilon 'I1in:ni McDonough and Charles wdll attempt to defend its cham- Chancliet• could be a real help with pionship in. intramural football as a little more experienc$. this year's season gets under way. The ba-ckfield is in good -shape The double elimination .tournament· wit'h rue'h reserves as: Crotty, Feld- ·Will !begin just as soon as sponsor meir, McDermott, and D' Aiello. Art Lawrence .. can ~;Lrrange the Athletic Director Wilford Ketz schedule. Mr. LaJwrence would I1ke has isSued an invitation to all the to have all footbali entries in his UiT.M aiu:m:ni in the area, and a possession :by Monday noon, the s~ctlon. lih the stands has been re- .27th, so that' the schedule may 'be served for them. It is ho}led that completed by the folloWing Wed• all Uhim men will be out there nesday. He also requests that in- rooting ·lln \the teanu Mr. Ketz a.iso dependent team& entering Jhe com- asked that :all students abide by petition present rosters of their tJhe rul~ and bring no beer or players. Rules for the tournament · liquor in.to the stands with them. may .be obtained from Mr. Law~ This i'Ule will be enforced, renee's office in Alumni Gym. Annual Tennis Tournament To Begin 'the second anntla.l Presidenes · . · . - Cup ten.nis tournannent will open . . Wheels who get around - wear a!' ARROW ••• Butto\·Down -®1§!. . ·It's the one shirt that says-\You're teallr Witk it.'' And. that campus·classic • • • the Arrow hntton;down sh1rt • • • is ready in a o • on the varsity coUirts dill'lng the Entries should be. ac:compamed : 11 fWieek of october 4, it was an- by :~Jhone numbers. and addr~sses, , , nounced today by ten:iJ,is coacll, as well as by a list o~ avrula.ble Prof. John Bradbury. . ~ays and hours for :plaYing. Dra.IW'- l!Olid ':.ariety of styles like the traditional ,DOVER Gordon Pover. With all these perfect·fitting ~ Arrow shirts, you'll' get \butto12-down cor· rectness\ •.• PLUS . a lift that gives a man -:::: . All students at Union will ibe . mg wm be :r:osted a.t the courts '· eligible for the tournament except and results \'?Jll be e~tered on the ) tennis letter 'Winners. Freshmen df:J:':d!.slieet as matches are com,- are especially urged to enter. An P · entry sheet ;will •be posted! on the A trophy, d-onated ·by Ji>resident · 'bulletin board in the basem.ent of Davidson, . Will be aw~r4ed Ill. the gym\ or entrfe!l may be turned Chapel to th& 'wdnner. Last year's in to Coaeh 'l~radbury in the . Old winner 1\Va.S. Mortoli ~il\reJ:i, co-~ap- Chapel. tain of the Var.sity Tennis Team. his indiViduality. $4<50 in white broadcloth; w~te oxford,. $5.00.:-oame ptice in color·! · ;llltr A.RllOWsatRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR. • HANI»KERCWEFS • CASUAL WEAR P R I N T E.R S I ---------~------~-------~~-~~~~~~~._~.-~J Arrow's -' ALL-AMERICAN College Classic on everybody's wardrobe tettill. Just rigl1t for a real crowd pleaser- wear it for any occasion~ off campus or on. It's casual, and dressy when it has to be. Drop in and let us drop one ove~ your manly fraine. Smooth styles above: Left, the Gordon DelVer BD, available in white or colors. Right, the Arrow Sussex BD (medit.m S}lread collar), regular or french cuffs. Broadcloth button downs from $4.50, oxford $5.0(). JO·S. NUS;BAUM, lN·C. \The Nation's Leading Brands for- Men and: Boys\ 447-451 STATE STREET

i.'- t i' 4 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1954 Mounteban.ks Audition Help St~dents · · ·~--·-~~- Rushin.g Rules Reviewed· ~Continued from Page 1) 1. There shall be a formal- rushing~ . F 'M l A 0 l' c t h 't l't f D It all Korean Collegiate Elnglish Ora- . p· eriod of 14 days beginning at contact, all discussion m11st be Or ' ' a. e nlma. as· . tall~ of t ~ hasp! a 1 y 0 - e a, tox·ical contest, under the sponsor-· 19 · , · , . · Upsilon, Se1crson, who hruls from. li H noon Sunday, September · , limited to the particular fra- . · · · 1 Hjarring, Denmark, ·emphasized ship of the Korean Repub c. e 1954 'and ending. at noon Sun- ternity represented. l 't t 1 A · h' t · was a class representative, and a day, October 3, 1954. There .will 9. Rushing outside tb.€ dormitory Wednesday evening, September 22, the Mountebanks, 1 era ure an< merrcan Is 01 'Y · member of the debating team iii.. be no f.ormal rushing until Sep- ends at 8:00 p.m. and in the d th d , t' f d - D G'ff d ur· t and was very active in leading boy· Yon:g San high scho~>l, Un er e 1rec lOll 0 a new a VISOr, r. 1 or vv Inga e, scout groups, He has travelled i!J. • He!'mlll.n So:rensen, from Den- tember 19, 1954. dormitory at 9 ;00 p.m. opened their '54-'55 season with the first of three schedl:lled Norway, Sweden, Ger~any, Luxe=: mark, who was supposed tg live at Fofmal rushing shall be defined 10 . A rushing gro:u:p from one fra- auditions, the remaining two • bso~rtg, ·lHodll~Ilt~~l Belg:~duAm, ti?\anHcles Kappa Nu this year, mifortunatelyl as including: 't ternity cannot <iela,y :a. rushing f l · h t f W d w1 zer an a y an us r1a t (a) Written or verbal inv1 a-· g·roup from another fraternity o wuc are se or e nes- E • w • t . . t • t 1 .' . th th ·. t: , resigned and because of the la e- t' d rl es maln ln eres S le In . e ea l e tions for meals, .par les, an for •·~.'*ore than 1'0· mi'nutes. d d Th d S t b Wlllg · . . . . '.ness of .this resignation, It was im-. \\ . ay an. . urs ay, ~p em er ' .· . pa_ ln. tlng, soccer, . gymnastics, and. ·, OSSl'ble f\r Kappa Nu to contact dates. 11 N t -\· t hall' n.. • d 29 and 30, at 8 P. M. m Hanna _ . · h1l~mg tours, Se1ersen expects to P th t~ d n:t (b) Entrance of a new student · e·w s uucen ·S s · '\e Issue an f · N T tb k d h h' f l't t ano er s u e · into any f:mternity house appointment calendar on 'Which Hall. T?is year's irst lllaJ~l' . ew ex - oo·l . SI~Utb tuc. 1 s~fry fo c ·l e~ ure: Union students who are. heading except as on an orientation: they shall list their invitations production, \The lVfale An1- ,a · · 9 . mversl Y ~ open agen: up the participation of the various· committee authorized tour. in advance. 'l'hese calendars mal \ by James Thurber, I t 1 M th .., f 'Cl after his year at Umon. houses are Richard J. Rubin, Alpha (c) Any social contact bet VI een shaH be posted in a conspicuous nstrumcn a e o\s o ·!em· Phi Delta Theta will take on·. Delta Ph 1 · ·, Arthur E. Corwith, Jr., t ·a t • · t b · terest1'ng · · t t a ne.w· stud· ent and a frater- place in the new s u en s room. proilllses 0 e an 111 · ical Analysts, an tmpor an nEw Robin J. Gundry who is from Eng-· Chi Psi·, John .Wurster and How- d 1· 't d t d tl ' t t tb k · th f' ld f chem1'st1·y n 1 'ty man. 12. New stu ents are II'lll e o an curren y appropna e ve- ·ex 00 1 11 e 18 0 la>nd and bol'n in London. Gund1oy ard Hobson, Delta Phi; WH!iam D. .three meals· per w·eek at any hicle for the new talent which by Professor Calm W. Ewing of was an engineering student at. Dudolph aided by John Sherwood:. 2. A n81\V• student is a student en- one fraternity house. Ne•w stu- these castimr sessions should Ul ntionth<?olle.ge,thw~~l bteh p~blGished ,Brighton Technical College. He, and William Benjamin, I>elta Upsi- taring Union College for the dents are not permitted to at- ~ a er · · ts man • uy e c raw Wa.\i a Lieutenant in the Royal Sig- !on; Leslie H. Sobin, Kappa Nu; · first time (inCluding transfer tend brealdasts at fraternities. produce. Hill Book Company, Inc., on N€W nals of the British Territorial Thomas M. Gerusky, P'hi Delta! students, and legacies) Vlho are 13 . No new student shall' accept an \The Male Animal\ deals with York City. Army. Gundry is interested in Theta; John M. Burr, Phi Gamma not a:lready members of a fra- invitation for a meal· rr.ore than the plight of a college professor. Intended for college courses nt small arms and plan:s to make a Delta; and Richa.rd A. Slutsker, ternity. three days in advance with the who, having proposed to usc the the senior or first y<>ar gra.duale career in ballistics. He has travel-. Phi Sigma Delta. 3. 'There shall be a period of exception of Saturday evening letters of a convicted anarchist in level, Dr. Ewing's volume i-s one of led in France and likes fencing,. ___ 0 ,___ sHence from noon, October 3, meals. hl ·s Engi 1 'sh course, is accused of the first fe.w texts to be published· squash, cricket, rubgy, photograph'-- 19~4 t'l 6·00 p m on Tuesday ' o , u.n 1· · · · · • .14. The. H.P:C. is to sit as a Com- questionable political beliefs. The in the relatively new field of in- and drama. At Union Gundry will Freshman Camp • October 5, 1954, during which mittee of the \Vhole to judge ml 'ss 1 ·ves, however, turn out to be a strumental analysis. It has been study engmeenng. t' th h 11 b com · 1me ere s a e no ' ·- any infraction with a 2/3 vote very innocent nature and the pro- used at the Colleg-e on an experi~. Jose Espindola-Cavalcantc, who <Continued from Page 1) munication of any kind between (omitting the accusecr and the fessor is exonerate-d. This plot is mental basis in mimeographed will stay at Phi Grunn1a Delta, Held each year, this part of the new· st'lfdents and the frat~tni- accuser) of members present ably supported by an amusing sec- form for sev<.'ral years·. comes from Forta1eza, BrazU. He is camp program serves a dual pur- ties. The bids shall be issued by and set the penalties. ondary theme and Thul.'ber's plerc- A member of the Union College interested in the study of the Eng- pose; it affords an o-pportunity for the H.P.C, AH bids shall be. Penalties ing wit. In addition to this play. faculty for the past eight ye!Ll·s, !ish Language so that he will be the new freshmen to meet •the men .provided by the H.P.C. and' 1. The national fraternity shall be the Mountebanks plans to produee Professor E·wing gr·aduated from able to teach it VI hen he returns to who will guide their classroom shall be of uniform appearance. notified. at least one other major work. William and Mary College in 1936 Brazil. Espindola shows interest work; it a)so serves as a good 4 _ All rushees shall appear at thr 2 . The. rushee cannot r.lcdgc the P robably by ShakeRpNU'<', and rec~j.ved his Ph.D. from the in foot-bull, s\\ Imming, and <.lancing.· sound alibi fo·r these same faculty house of their choice at 6:00 offending fraternity until the Among the innovations Dr. Win· University of Chicar;o three ;y<·n.rs He al:;o has had experience as a to get away from their ·desks and. T d 0 t b 5 p.m. on ues ay, c o er , 2nd semester. If he has already g ate has scheduled for this rear is lat~r. ptima1·y tt•achc·r be.ides worl' -i'n take ·part in the fun. The response' d · h h · 1954. pledged the house, the pledge Arena theater. a typn of pres en ta- He fir·st entc•r<>d t'h<> field of edu- a 'ban!{ and Pan An erican World this year prove h1g ly ent uslas-· ..._ \' · b 'd 5. 'These rushing rules shall ter- is void. tion in which the audience sur- cation at that time and SN'VN.l un- ' u·v.ays. tlc on oth s1 es. rounds the player\ directly on the til 19-±2\ a;;. Professot uf Ch .. mistry Phi Sigma Delta wH! room Kim Contributing: to the success of the minate at 6:00 p.m. Tuesday. floor of thf> theater. This trpe of at Blacl,burn Coll<>ge in Carlinville, Hung Wha. from Koren. Kim will 1954 encampment were Bill Ketz,' October 5, 1954. ----0------ production has provl'd quite popu- !Hinois. Turning next to industrial study civil enginpermg and has al- Cam.p Director; .Jim Brown, Stu- 6. Any student other than a new . Cop; \You were speeding. I'll lar not only with amateurs but also employment, he held the po·sition ready taught differential calculus dent Dil'ector; and their staffs of student may be contacted and have· to give you a ticket.\ From the Bona Venture: in professional companies. The im- of Chemist with the Sterling-Win- at the Y . .M.C.A. mg-ht school in twE'nty-sev£>n. faculty members and pledged without regard to th~ Speeder; \I'll g-ive you $10, offi- pending acquisition by the Moun.te- throp ResPa:rch Institute of Rens- Pusan. He has travelled in China thirty-one. upper classmen. Those above restrictions. cer, if you'll let me off.\ banks of a unit for area lighting selaer until joining- the faculty at and experienced the handicaps of who ran the camp considered it a 7. There shall be no discussion per- Cop: \You can't bribe me. I'm is making this experiment possible. Union as an A'ssistant Profc~sot\ of the Korean war. Living near Seoul complete success. In the words of taining to a particular .frater- honP.st as the day is· long.\ A second addition to the Mounte- Chemistry in 1946. and Pusan most Qf his life, he was Camp Director Wilford H. Ketz, it nity before the forrra.l rushing Speeder: \I'll make it fifty.\ banks' repetoire will be a Work- Granted sabbaticnl leave during brilliant in .>lathematics and Eng- was \one of the finest freshman period begins. Cop; \That was a lovely sunset shop Program which will produce the 1953-54 acadc,mic year, Dr. !ish. Kim won first prize in the I encampments ever held.\ 8. During the period of personal wasn't it!\ m~or ~aysand bring about c~scr'~ing dev~~ his time equal~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cooperation bet\\•een lhe major stu- I industrial and Pduc.ational rr- dent activities lJy in,tttuting a, sPai'ch. Dr. Ewmg ts a memhPl' of series of Radio Workshop prod uc- the American Chemical SociEty tions to be performed over WRUC. and of Sigma Xi sdence honor The officers of the !\fountehanks society. In addition to his ne1v text, for this year are ·Calvin Knicker- he has authored numerous articles bocker, Presidmt; Richard Meyer. for the professional journals of his Vice-President; Harold Vin!{, Srcre- field. He is listed in the American tary, and Martin Poppo, Treasur-er. Men of SciencP. \Represents education that continues,\ says GEORGE GALLUP Fo!Jnd er of the Ameru:on lnstilute of Public Opin1on, formerlt Professor, Pulitzer School of Journalis.m, Co!umb.a U. \A serious weakness of the American educational system is the missing link between what we are taught in school and what we learn after leaving school. The Reader's Digest represents education that continues. It arouses and satisfies keen interest in the vital issues of the day and in varied fields of lasting knowledge. 11 Look at the wide range of subjects in any issue-The Reader's Digest is designed for the well-rounded individual who cultivates interests far wider than the confines of any particular field. From the wealth of rna terial that is published each month, the editors select those outstanding articles no thoughtful person would want to rniss. Each article is condensed to present the essentials clearly, yet preserve the full content and flavor of the original. The Reader's Digest offers a continuing liberal education for millions of men and women with alert, open minds. * * * In October Reader's Digest, you'll be interested in Cobalt 60- bow an offshoot of A-bomb research is being used to fight cancer; Watch Out for the Weatlze.--how its changes affect your physical and rnental behavior; 29-page book condensation: Windows {ol' the C~:oum Prince-an American woman's precedent-shatt€ring experience as tutor to Japan's future Emperor. I ' COMO AND HOGAN Perry G:omo, top TV and recording star, and Ben Hogan-only active golfer to win 4 national championships, enjoy a Chesterfield during a friendly round of golf. / WHAT A BUY- CHESTERFIELD King Size (at the New Low Price) and Regular Lik_e Be~ and Perry you smoke for relaxation, comfort and s_atisfactwn. In the whole wide world no cigarette satisfies hke a Chesterfield. , . You smoke with the greatest possible pleasure when your c~garette is. Ch~sterfield- because only Chesterfield has the nght combmatwn of the world's best tobaccos-high.est in quality-low in nicotine .... In short, Chesterfields are best to smoke and best for you, lARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES I\ t I. L I .·,. I i I .. ·,··~ ' !. I ..... Vol. 84, ,.,__ __ _ Ne Ou At the 8-tt.: plans tc and s~( vist, th ics rane to char:: 'Most I' campus needed of the c~ nouncem out. The CCC program noon cl:: varsity~ tra prac• In linE proposalJ haps tt changes chapel. two ruim. grams a cultura:ll . ing boar sus was the mos1 people · Also,' sir schedule. lunch P• hour ch~ feasible. F1•os 'l'he cc big nam, at the f:; ever, sir on ·such :Bail, tllii self. Anoth• that of ing and ing abot. present other sy be mad• man soc ing syst• ing is u.: Delphic hopes t< ing pro .. that grc Other a reviE squad t petuatin ation of mittee. '1 Th€ E .,1' Mino1' v an all-B Tid mar~ Sund.!ty day's c marsh's th irti~tl' the Coil The three a positioo Thee is. ly Gra:z; thew p, the per: dition t poser's G M.ajo Dr. 'I a grou colorfuJ off wit· dalena': in the wife, • mainin, from d Go(l;\ E Flat\ co mom. String; inDM Dr .. ' more h ing fal day, r:- music Wid or Sunda-s annual: gram. His ot: will be four y•

