.. ' { -. -· Tulips and · Chimneys. Read Page 2 'I • • Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 85. No. 1 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., SEPT.EMBER 23, 1955 Freshman Pajama Drive Precede.s Home Open~r 11955 Un·ion College Football Team· The Pajama Parade, long a tradition a.t Union on the night before the first home football game, is . undergoing .major revisions this year under the guidanG.e ()f the Fresl1-, man Orientation Committee. · In an attempt to divert the ex- M M. k. T cess exuberance exhibited by the ' . c . •a· . ,· ·O:n·. I . .·• ~ . Freshman Class into useful instead U' of destructive channels, the Cqrx:.- L d ROTC mittee has made several ·changes. . e· a. . .· . . . . .. · . the first of which is switching the · name to Pajama Drive. . In command of the 1955-56 ALr The parade will be conducted: Force Reserve Officers' Training '\' ith the cooperation of the City wing at Union will be Cadet LielZ· of Schenectady and the Chamber· tenant Colonel John P. McMahon. of Commer-ce. The route will be. Lieutenant Colonel McMahon \Will the usual one, N ott Terrace to : be :assisted in his ·command by a. state Street,. then across on Erie: staff M senior officers appointed· · Boulevard and back up Union· upon his own recommendation :b:y · Street, but the streets will have the regula;r .Aii: Force. His OWD been previously closed to traffic appointment as wing commande:r · by the police department. was concurred upon by bot'h Air ·Force and college officials. The parade owill be enlarged with the addition of two bands and .a; Appointn: ents, stated Colonel Sh~l- . n:.otorcade. Riding in the motor- don, Pl\.8 were .based upon the de- cade will be top city officials, in- monstrated leadership ability and Pictured above is the 1955 edition of the Union ·College football team which will inf:'et Vt•rmout tmnor- cluding Mayor Wemple, along »ith general' academic standing of the row at Burlington. First row (left to rig.lt): Richard Ciooolella, freshman coach; Hammel, manager; representatives from the college, senior cadets In both college and' Wodarza,k, Allen, Chandler, McMahon, Cr{)tty, Ma1•t ucci Huntington, Coach Samul\l C. H:ammerstr~m. There will also be \Beat Amherst\ ROTC prl)grams. The officers re- Second row, Do:mrella, Delaney, Mola, Lounsbury, Sawyer, McDe1mott, McGregor, Rl\ynolds. Third t•ow: floats constructed by the fraterfii- ceived their commissions after con- · Janulionis, Cavoli, Riggi, Larmour, Cocozzo, Ingamells, Za.n~rra.ndo, L'ummings. Back ro1v: LPahy, 01- ties. These will be judged b:y- a · pleting three years of ROTC stud:y · so11, Gilmore, Faeth, Root, Cole. committee of top city ·and college together with a summer training -----------~--~------------------;--~------------­ officials, with a cup, donated :tJ.y period following the third year. the HPC, to go to the winner. McMahon is a veteran of th.e It is hoped that :the Nott Terrace Korean War, having served in th.e. High School band •will complement Air Force in the Far Eflst. A..t the Union band in the music mak- Union he has played . varsity fo<fi:- ing department. ball, served as president of tl:Le Mountebanks to Present Dean Replies With the possible presence of · Mechimical Engineering Society, the rival candidates for- mayor in and is now Secretary of the senie>r · ll{liller's \All My Sons'' To Questions the motorcade as an added draw- class. ing card, it is expected :that a large .Assisting him and second in COin· crowd of spectators will gather. A mand of the Union wing will l>e grou.p of freshmen 'WHl ·be sent Cadet Major Paul' F. Whitman. r:n into the crowd with cans to collect command of the two wing groups money for a yet unannounced char- will be Cadet Majors Earl S. Dod- ity. erer and Robert B. Penny. Other The Mountebanks has· selected Arthur Miller's Pulitzer Prize winning play, Ail My Sons, for its fali production. Tryouts for the drama will be held at Hanna Hall on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings,~·'-· ~----------- In a short statement this week Dean C. William H:untley revealed the answers to two very important fraternity problems. The Dean an- The parade v.ill be more orderly, .senior ranking officers include Ca- with orientation counsellors and det Captains Roy H. Nordstrand, Delphic men .. bers acting as mar-. Louis M. Martucci, Rogel' L. Like'· shals. The cheevleaders will lead wise, and Robert 0, Boardman. cheers a:3 usual aJong tile route. This year Mol\fahon expects to Upperclassmen are asked to leave initiate a winter driii progra01 frosh .beanies on their owners' during which squadrons will dt•Ell heads until the freshmen get hack in the field house. It is believed on campus· again. On. returning that by allocating additional time to college grounds, tradition will for drill through the winter ])re- take over ag.ain, 'With the usual gram cadets will not only achje17e bonfire on Daley Field. greater drill~ perfection but will Freshmen ~ill .be required to also have greater o~portu.~ity t.o bring wood for the fire and a 24 <l.emonstrate leadership .abtllty. hour guard wm 'be placed by the 'the wing will make its first a:p- woodpile to prevent a premature pearance in formation between tho· blaze. Once the blaze gets going halves of the October 8 footbatll a fire department trucl\ will 'be game with Rochester. .Another a:p- on hand tq keep things· under con- pearance. is .now bei!lg schednled trol. Albert Barsamian, Orienta- for the Nl)vember 12 game with tion Committee Chairman, will Hamilton and will be in honor of present Mayor Wemple with the the queen of t'h.e military ball sta.g- proceeds of the collecUon. ed the previous night. .September 26 and 27 at 7 :30 P. M. All those interested are urged to read the :play before they appear. In u. aking the announcement, Dr. Gitiord Wingate, the theatre group·s taculty adviser, set the ten- tative production date for Decerr..~ ber 2. He stated that the play 'VIas chosen largely for its tense dra- maUc impact and intimate nature. These factors are expected to con- tribute to the excellence of All My S()ns as a vehicle for Hanna Hall's newly installed arena lighting sys- tem. Arena theater, an arrange- ment under Vlhich the audience surrounds the players directly on the floor of the theater, has been notably successful in several of New York City's off-Broad'Way playhouses. Mountebanks President Calvin Knickerbocker, at the Monday or- ganizational meeting, outlined the thespians' program for the com- ing year. Expansion will be the B F t d S k watchword and the theme is \not rown ea ure . pea. er more hUt better productions.\ The · . . · . feeling is that the initiative stimu\ At c t • c · Ia ted by the success of last year's · . OllVOCa lOll eremony ::~~o~~tb~l~~r.ak4~!·lab~!!:~ri \Memory declared Dr. Alan W. Brown, newly appointed program will be continued with college Provost, \is the most importa,nt skill of life as well. :~~e~~~:~ng~o~f t~:·o cS:~~~ a~~~r~ as learning, giving meaning to time and a .pattern to incli- These plays-in-miniature will be vidual experience.\ directed· by yo1l.Ilg, heretofore in- Speaking on the subject, The •e:&perienced ·students who exhibit Skills of Man, Dr. Brovtn pre- interest and talent in the forth- sel).ted tl)e fea,tured address at the coming n:<>nths. convocation cereznony which mark-'. Plan Spring Offering ed the official start of Union's 161st Plans are also going forv.ard academic year, The aw arding of the Alumni -on the spring offering. It is pos- sible that the performance will be Council Fraternity Scholarship a restoration comedy. Another Plaque, given annually to the fra~ likelihood is a training program ternity .sho >'~irtg the greatest schol- for young actors and stage assist- astic irr•provement in the previous ants. M<Hmtebanks' crass, with an school year, a.hd the announce- eye to the future, envision this inent of the actual fraternity ·program as the ·source of the lead- rankings, shared honors V\ ith Dr. . Brown in the convocadon pro- ing men and skilled set designers gran:. 'l'heta Delta Chi won the of tomorrow. Plaque for the second~ time in Not confining its activities to three years, gaining more than v.isuai media, the group has pushed half of a point over their 1953-1954 preparations for an hour long standing. Kappa Nu again too·it dramatic presentation to be bl'oadc lop honors in the actual rankihgs, ca.st over WRUC .once every four with a 3.195 combinM index and weeks. It is believed that this with 17 men over 4.0. Dr. Alan Brown addressed !;:be sidelight will pay the Mountebanks Dr. Bro.,.n corres to Union from <;onvocation cei'eJuonies .opening•the big dividends in student interest. Car Pool Sough:t nounced that the whole question of new on-carn.pus homes for the By Froslt Council off-campus fraternities is still un- decided for many reasons, the most Under the chairmanship of Wil- important of which is finance. He liam Allen '59, the neVI1y formed also said that 'rheta Delta Chi will Freshman Council, is planning a not occupy its new bouse on Lenox driving pool for commuting Union Road until legally feasible. students. Anyone ·interested in the pool should contact Allen Affects Six Houses either on the carr..pus or at his The idea of college homes for home on Hoover Road, Schenec- the off-campus fraternities is not tady. new at Union, but at the present Council members are planning time it is one e>f the most important ari all freshman party to be held questimis at the .college since it on campus after one of the school's directly affects six houses. How- home fo()tball games. Exact time ever, the financial situation makes and location of the party will be any definite settlement this year announced at a later date. impossible. The p!a;n requires both The Freshman Coumlil ;;as or- federal and state aid funds and ganized during the orientation ~specially the support of all houses week program. One npresenta- concerned before it can begin, tive vvas elected from each section Nevertheless, the pictu.re is not en- of the Freshman dorrrs. The tirely bleak for Dr. Garter David- representatives then held a rneet- son reported last y-ear that Union ing to e:le:ct offi-cers. They- are: has a request before the State William Allen, chairman; Robert Dormitory Authority for fund.s for Larkin, secretary; Thorr as Camps, constructing the six new houses. treasurer. Therefore, while no answer is yet The Council's objective is to keep. available, it is quite possible that the class of '59 united until a per- next year may bring lhe long manent slate of Freshman offkers awaited program into being. is elected in November. · (Continued on Page 3) Mrs~ Rotundo Serves As First Woman Instructor Those students who have been suxprised to find an attractive woman wandering through Bailey Hall recently, can rest assured that is wrong with their eyes. Rather; they are a :phenomenon last seen at Union during World War II- a female instructor. The lady in question is the \'ife of the late Dr. Joseph Rotundo. Class of '29, one of the finest and most popular instructors in the history of Union. Mrs. Barbara Rotundo, therefore, is not a new~ comer to Union. \It's fun teach- ing here, and fun to be back at Bailey Hall, with all my old friends,\ your reporter 1'\'as told. \They are all such nice people, 1\ ith wonderful senses .of humor.\ ·Comments overheard from soine of the students .gives the impres- sion that it is nice having Mrs. Rotundo at Union. Hobart and William Smith Col· 161st year of Unio-n College. Dt·. Concluding the rundoVIn was an leges ih Geneva, N. Y., where he Brown is ·the former President of invitation of freshmen and sopho- had served as president si)lce 1948. Hobart a:nd Willia.ffi Smith (}(II- mores Vvith a .background in de- Teaches Freshman English Previoll.ll to that, he taught for leges and· is presently sel\Ving as T To assume her post as Instruc- A Haircut In the Night Read Page 4 PRICE TEN CENTS 'Gridders To :OpposeUVM AtBurlington One of the most promising Union College football squads ·in recent years will open its HJ55 season tomorrow after- n()on against the University of Vermont at Centennial Field, Burlington. The game, beginning at 1:30 (EDST), will be broadcast direct from 'Burlington by WRUC. Verm.out, despite the Joss of six starters from its 1954 eleven which co·mpiled the Catamount's best re,cord since 1897, expects to field another powerful team ·built around All-New England left halfback Eddie Beck. Last year the Garnet held Vermont to a 14-14 tie, after w·hlch the Green Mountain Boys went on to register a five and one record. Both clubs wiii be operating with new quarterbacks, after gradua- tion losses :which carried off UVM's Mike Semans and Union's D<:Jn Reed. Ed Janulionis will open for the Garnet at quarter- back, with Ed Crotty also slated tl) see considerable action. .Janu- Iionis, a sophomore, called signals f<n the last season's frosh team. H:e is known to be a deadly tackler on defense, and has impressed iil. fall .practice with shifty broken- field running. Dick Wbite. also a sophmpore, will be in the quarter- back slot for Vermont. In addition to Janulionls, the Garnet backfield will see Dick Lounsbury at fullba-ck, and Dave 1f.cDermott and Don Root in the halfba(}k positions. Lounsbury, as a S()phomore last year, was Union's second ground-gainer with 304 yards in 67 tries. He also scored three touehdowns. ·' McDermott is a; junior letterman while Root is a s<>}lhomore. Beck H!;~lds Records Eddie Beck is one of the out- standing all-around athletes to come out of the . University of Vermont. He is already well es- ta-blished in the Catamount's all- tin:e football records; he holds the single game rushing record, 149 yards gained and net, and the all season ru.shing record of 668 gained and 621 net, established in 1954. Last season he tied for the New England scoring title 'With 72 points In seven games. Beck also completed three out , of five forward passes for 68 yards, and was on the receiving end <lf 17 passes for 248 yards. i:n high school, he was an All-Massa- chu.setts selection for two years and was nominated to the high school All-America. He has also been named -to the All-Yankee <Jonference first team and All- :Vermont State college team while at UVM. The left side of the Garnet for- ward waJl will see Lou Martucci, Sing Huntington and Gary Gil- more at end, tackle and gliard, respectively. A senim·, Martucci has seen three years of var- sity competition Huntington, an- other senior. reached his peak against Williams last year after a. slow start. Gilmore 'Was the outstanding guard on the 1954 frosh team, and particularly im- pressed observers of spring prac- tice. (Continued on Page 3) . . Students Give $1121 To Campus Chest During the past two weeks $J.,121.75 has been collected for the Campus Chest, most of it at regis- tration. Donations l:)y freshmen a.mo1l.Ilted to $632,50 while the Un- ion upperclassmen contributed $498.25. The total amount marks a.n increase of $125 over last year's c-ontributions. This increase will 'be further augmented by $300.00 .'in pledges which will be collected .in November. 14 \e.ars in the English d.epart- Provost of Union College. ,signing to tryout for posi lOns on tor of English, Mrs. Rotundo gave ' the Mountebanks' staff. These ment at Columbia, where he was openings offer -\· chance to re- u.p one of .the two positions she also assistant dean. port for ·accreditation by the M.id- \\ held as a Girl Scout leader. Her In his capacity· as Provost, Dr. die States Association. place the present chief ·designer, present duties entail the teaching 'Lin ·swearingert, when he gr!!-du-. Bro•wn will ser¥e as lilirector of · \What w;e call tradition,.\ Dt·. of Freshman English. Mrs. Ro-- The function of the Campus Chest is to collect donations in Mrs. Barbra R.otundo is the· one single effort, for various stud- fir~>t peacetime woman professor in ent charities. The major benefac- the history of Uiliun College. .tors are the follOIWing.: National the Evening Session and. Graduate Brown ·pointed o-ut. \is not neces- a.tes this year. · tundo said that she •wants to per- in Bailey Hall, and post-war ro-ut- Program, Editor of colle.ge publi- · sarily oid. hat, and although. tha In addition to President Knie>k- suade the \scientists\ in her classes ine is being repeated. Novelty cations, secretary of the eV.alua- traditionalist ·rray otten lose him- erboclr.ez:, Mountebanks' officers for that a year of English is worth- is always more interesting than tion committee on i:. D. courses, self in the shadows of ·a. self- the year are Richard Meyer, Vice- while; a task that many others routine, and this year's no:velty artd chairman of the Long-Range imagined past, the true life of 'President; Fred Hall, Secretary; have tried before. > has proven that there is a place Study Con:mlttee to prepare a re• (Continued on Page 3) al).d Thomas Trabasso, Treasurer. Post-war history is being m~tde 'for instructresses at Union. ,Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students, the World Uni- ve'rsity Service, the United Negro ;College Fund, the Union College ~ternational Reconstruction Fund ,ancl the Schenectady Community Chest.

2 Qtouror !1'1em ber- Associ a ted Colle- giate Press and dlstrlb· utor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver· tising H.epresentatl vo: :-;a- tiona! Ad\'ertlsing Service, Inc., College :Publishers Hepresentati ve, 420 llla<li· :.;on Av(;l .• ~. Y. C. l'utJ- lished every Friday of th<: school year. e:d!torinl Offlce,Washburu Hall, Union College, Pub· lrcatlon Office, The Oa- ~elle Press. 334 State St. E:ntereu in the Schenec- tady l'ost Office as Sec- ond Class :liail Matter, • ulJ•crlption lOc a coP¥' ; $:! a >ear~ uelivet,ed any- where in the United States. SE:-1 lUlt !lOA RlJ JJ.;HJtULlJ l. lllHSCHJ:;.c-; '57 ..... ~-);JoJ ......•. E<litor-in-l'hhd MAHTIN ?.DI~ll·:t::.\1.\:\ •;• ....... ~-3,;11 .............. A~sol'iate Editor ALFRED NADEL '56 ••••.•••..••. 6-:•H59 .•... , ..... Business 1lanager BL>W 1l J{D CUJVS, J-1:{, \57 •.. ,, ... a->G5U . • . . . . . . . . . . • Features Editor I~lJW.\IiU ::; LA:'-:f;-HOl..Z '57 ..... ~·ltiH... . ......... News Editor lll~H:--:.xnn \l'OIII·::-> •:;G :!-:ltill . . . L'ir~ulation ~lanager Jt::<i!Ult llOAltD ROHJ,;RT SCHAHF '56 .... , , ................................ Art Editor ROBEltT .MALI.:-;ER 'G6 ..................................... Copy Editor PETE: it JATLOW '57 ........................................ Copy Editor NOHTON REAMER '57 ... , ... , .............. _ ... Assistant News Editor CHAH.I...BS CA!tL '57 .................................... ActlVitieo Edito1 ~l'A:--1 LBY ·1-'Ult WAND '56 , • , ••• , • , , ..• -\atiunal A<lvel !Ising ~lana;;er STEI'HEN' K:->AFE:L '57 .............•................ Ex<\hange Editor BERNAHD· BERKO\VITZ '57 ....................... : .... Headline Editor UONALD CLIS 1•: '57 .... , Lm·al Auverti>Hng ~lanage1 REPORTERS Joel Buxuaum, l.lruce lloklan, Peter Cassileth, lioi.Jert Cohen, Jai'!<SOII Goddard, :'.Iarl< Greenspa11. Charles Hackenyos, 1\khard I..ewis, Daniel Papernik, :O.Ikhael !'incus, l'aul Hasen. l'ltESH3LAN S'l'AF},' Mordecai Braunstein, Hobert Deming, :\l!chael Enzer, Jen:o\d F'le~sher, Leo F1·1tschler Peter Goldfine, Arnold Goldschlager, Wtlham txross. Anthony Guidarelli, Kenneth Hasson, Bruce Hau[Jman, Kenn.,th Hoyt, RoiJert Kessler Hobert !{line, Jolu1 Kovacik, Irwin Lunianskl, Hobert Salilclt, lie raid' Selkowitz, l:'tefan Steil!, James Swan, Hie hard Russa\k. ll USIN EIOS STA.l'l'' Joseph .Mattorano, Rober.t Steinberg, Julian Chassman, HerlJert Gilder, Martin Stein. ClRVULATIOX STAFF r \But fellows, I only wanted to see my son.\ I FRIDAY; SEitTEM8ER 23; 1955 Tulips and Chimneys :BY Etlward Cloos; Jr. Customarily, one might almost talk should be of contracting a11d say traditionally, the _year _has be· not ex:.pa:Qding our ll.igher educa- ·gun with freshman onentatlo?· We tion system. The General felt that dropped in on one of these m~ug- ther·e Vvere far too many .unquall- urfrl sessions ·and found thmgs fied students in college and that , 1 nuch the same as they were when these students V\ere a gr·eater .w·e· were a frosh· knowledge-seeker. caUBe of overcro-v.ding and lack of ·several things were missing---\the opportunity for gifted but indigent famous jaunts up towering Lake· students than were insufficient. ·G-eorge rr.ountains led by our x:e- physica:l· materials and facilities cord-breaking D!rect01· of Adm1s- and the teacher shortage. We sions will Uve in history and' be h~ve al\'\ays held this view, but .n.ever ~epeated. Sad yet bearable frankly must shutter to think 'it is this, but ;less easy to take ape n dg·ht puevail. It •would be a - the additions, the new things. ~ur dreadful blow at our American g-roup talked of the old practice System-1-irst paid, first served. ·of hazing and, despite the a~noy- We are sure that the present p(Jl- ·ing. persistence of an u_nreasonmgly icy of anyone-with-money-enough- enthusiastic student d1rector, most can-attend•any-college is by far the <>f the camp noted its passing. We .safest course of action·. heard of the defunct SDC and Another neVI's item caught -our -l:J.ow·, though far behind the older eye; it vo. as in this ,past Tuesday's institutions such as Harvard, the '.rtmoes. It V\'as headed: \Narcotics !\elentless process of maturation supply ask.ed for users.\ The sug~ had touched Union and obliterated gestlo:n was made at a Senate ruo.St of the sophomoric system of subcommittee hearing in New underclass rivalries leaving onlY\ a York -City boy several respolisi-l>le -few ill-supported athletic events groups. The idea was that illegal and a pajarr.a parade of which we traffic in narcotics could best he disapproved in principle and for com.batted by removing those de- that reason took no part iii.. In pen·dent on ·narcotics· from the grip p 1 •actice it worked out well. of the narcotic trade. Clinic-only It appears that times have administration woUld be· the major changed and both the rivalry !J.us- feature of the plan. While our iness and the SDC have been re- governor was rather .skeptical of vived-or at least exhumed. There the -idea-he said the plan's pro- is little .we can do. There is noth- ponents :were all but insane and ing we want to do. But the latest dted .previous disastrous attempts 0 ~ the ever-maturing high school at similal' plans-'We are not so Last fall on the eve of the minual football game with. graduating cla~ses, t~e c~ass of certain. This column sees many Let's Travel to Williams Alau Chesler, Bernard Cohen, Robert \Vasserman, Mic~ael Masin, ~lit­ chell Rudnick, Philip Freedman, Davlll 1-'inkel, Hobert Uordon. ' . . · t f · d ~ • 55 can by patiently 1gnormg the fascinating applications of . the Hamilton, the Concord_Iensis recetved a. no e rom an um e - un:::onegi.ate and un-Union-like plan; free liquor for alcoholics to. tified \frosh\ suggestmg that Saturday classes be cancelled behavior of those members of the halt the sale of cheap, unsafe, in order that Union students might make the long trek to sophomore class seeking a prep and not tax paid liquor; n:aybe Cl . ton To this day it is stili felt in many quarters on school atmosphere of \goo? fun\ even free cigarettes for chain In · ' . . . h at Union, put a stop to this non- smokers. We are a chronic finger campus that the anonymous author ~\·as a professor Wit -an sense and quickly. May we re- nail b-iter-what can be done ~bout Dro George Dwight Kellogg The Concordiensis notes v;..ith deep regret the passing of Dr. George Dwight Kellogg, Emedtus Professor of Latin, earlier this week. D1·. Kellogg served Union College from 1911 until his retirement in the spring· of 1943, at which time he was Chairman of the Department of Ancient Classics. His influence spread beyond the bounds of the campus as a leader in the Schenedady Boy Scout movement and 3;n instructor in Public Speaking for the General Electnc Company. . . . . On the occasion of Ius retirement, the Concordtensis said: \Dr. Kellogg is perhaps best remembered by his students for his boundless enthusiasm, his wide range of interests, his willingness to converse interestedly on any subject at all, and the interest he tal\es in his students.\ Along '.vith the college and the community, we extend our sympathy to his family and friends. Prexy's Five Points As has been our custom in past years, the Concordiensis asked President Carter Davidson to contribute to our first issue an outline of the colleg-e'::; program for the conling year along fields that most directly concerned the students of Union. In the five part statement that follows, Dr. Davidson exp1·esses these aims: \The beginning of a college year is a good time at which to describe our hopes for the future, and 'our plans for bringing· them to realization. \ ( 1) Our greatest hope is that during the year we may receive a gift or gifts with which to build a new library building. We have slightly over $100,000 toward our goal, and must cultivate this field energetically during the year. \(2) We are waiting eagerly to hear from both the New York State Dormitory Authority and from the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency concerning our applica- tion for loans to build six new fraternity houses on campus, so that every fraternity will occupy a campus home. This will eliminate the i::.sue of fmtemities violating the zoning ordinance in the Really Plot. \(3) The faculty, through its committees, is engaged in a complete study of the College looking forward to the accreditation visit of the l\Iiddle States Association next year. These analyses should stimulate many ideas for im- proving our program. \ ( 4) This is the fifth and final year of the Carnegie Corporation grant for the Inter-Departmental courses. This is the year when we must decide whether they become a permanent feature i:s Union, what courses they replace, and how they should be built into the curriculum. \(5) We shall be following carefully the developments in physical education and athletics in the new Field House, the expanded offering in Art, and student participation in activities, to see whether last year's gains are capitalized or fritte1·ed away. We hope to move on to new highs.\ CARTER DAVIDSON, President Definite Approval Freshman orientation ended last Saturday and with it went the last echoes of those diehards who preached a return to Pilot I\nob and the camps of past years. No one who shared in the fjve day program which for the first time brought together an entire incoming class could fail to recognize the many advantages of orientating the frosh to the vagaries of their new campus on the spot. Not in recent years has a class shown the interest and potential to· partici- pate in all phases of college life as displayed by '59. We congratulate P~ofessor Sven Peterson and Albert Barsamian for a job well aone. exceedingly heavy load of Saturday classes m search -of a fe:w quest that the class of '59 .ta}te r-th....:a_t....:?~----.,.----~--. hours awa'' from his charO'eS, and more particularly, desiring sensible a~tion _rega.rd_ing the.se so- · J: J f d · \'1 t . d k d D ph om ore JUVemle delmquents and An org,tizational meeting of ·: that t•arest o aca. em1c P easures,. U \\0 ay wee en · e- borrow the words of T. s. Eliot students intert?sted in support- ' spite the uncertam parentage oi the lett~r, the Student to say, \Hurry up please, it's ing the candidacy of Professor · Council and other interested parties were qU'lck to cooperate. time.\ Karl M. Schmidt, Department As a result several hundred &tudents took advantage of the We noted this week that retired .of Government, for City Council: ' · ' , 1 S • . I . d t 1 d t General Royall, keynote· speaker will 'be held Monday evening. ; . cancellation Of 11 0 cloc \ atUlday C asses an rave e . o, at the White House Conference on September 26, ·at 7 P.M. In Room' the Continental's campus by bus and car. Our hypothehca.l Education, shocked the assemblage 202 Bailey Hall. Schmidt Is the ' professor may not have achieved his original aim, but he ~f politicians and. profession':~-! candidate on both the Democra- · did plant the seeds for one of the healthiest displays o:f .educators by suggestmg that then tic and Liberal tickets. school spiiit seen in many years. Serving Union's Men For Years ............. ...,....,~ ••sTUDENTS .. Such a precedent should not be overlooked in our plans. for the coming semester. l\Iany of us will undoubtedly gCJ to Troy for the RPI contest as the distance to be traveled is negligible. However, it is on October 29, when the Dutch.- man gridders journey to Williamstown to meet Williams in See your agent on Campur. the 47th l'enewal of a rivalry dating back to 1903, that w~ . will once again have the opportunity to visit an alien campu~ some miles removed from Schenectady and provide our team with the same enthusiastic support they received at Clinto11 in 1954. We urge the Student Council to draft a proposal at its next meeting suggesting that provisions be made t() allow students to attend the Williams game this year, and that this plan be extended to include Hamilton and William.s UNITED Looking for a Good Haircut Then try the SUPERIOR BARBER SHOP Located a half block from the Nott Street Gate toward The Field House in alternate years. J.I.H. A Word of Advice The start of another academic year at Union also marke<l: the beginning of the annual two week fraterl\ity fight f()r freshman pledges. It is a period of free meals, mucJJ. handshaking, and little schoolwork, but it is a necessary part of oux present fraternity sy;stem. Upperclassmen have been through it all before, and, at least as far as meets the eye, know what they are· doing, so we'll give some unasked for advice to members of th.e Class of '59, many of whom will he reading this on their way to or from fraternity houses. Your first decision will have to be, fraternity or inde- pendent? Factors entering into this decision include your own personality, your financial status, and a little soul searching to determine exactly what you want to get from college. Most of the advantages and disadvantages to fraternity as well as independent life are fairly obvious, and we won't mention them here except to advise you .to weig-h them canfully. , The chances are that approximately 70 percent of you will join fraternities. Many will get more than one bi<l. Consider carefully which house you join. Since a fraternity is, after all. a brotherhood. about 95 percent of your decision should be based upon your friendship with fellows in the house. Don't be snowed by seniors; they won't be around very long. Your fellow pledges and sophomores will be much more important in the long run. By all means join the house your friends join. On the whole though, pick car-e• fully; yoUl' decision will to a large extent detennine wh~t your life will be like during the next four years. E.S.L. GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS l------·---·-·----~-·-'IJ·----···· ~ .. -~~~ ...... ., .......... .. CLEANERS Phone 4-5676 114 State St. near Ferry FOR CAR TROUBLES SEE A UNION MAN · William H. Plath Auto Service 1372 Union St. • Schenectady Ph. 6-4895 FOR YOUR PAINT AND HARDWARE NEEDS CAPITOL PAINT STORES 726 State St. 1259 State St. Fh. 4-~123 Ph. 2-8374 Schenectady, N. Y. At M. B. Graubart & ·Sons The Perfect Place for the Perfect Diamond You are also invited to u~e our repair service. Utmost care is taken by our skillecl workel'$ to 9ive you every reason to be pleased. ~!£~~ 166 JAY ST. 520 UNION ST. PH. 4-1288 WGY LAUNDRY Free Pickup For Union College SHIRTS OUR SPECIPeLTY COMPLETE LAUNDRY and DRY~ ~LEANING SERVICE .. ' (Ct Tony fer frox He was ing spr fill the of Ted Rex: will op• Sa VI yer, player touchdc wHl al and ki &!len a the Un was o-t fensive biocltin, mour -~ frosh i· The I compos mo-wicz Leroy · ends J Dennis !lob G< Union J per rra Fillin field 'Vi Ja:b.non Joh:b.sOJ .senior JohnsOJ Coacl had t1 \They'r last ye proof c eran I' They s us.\ In a Union times, Union lingi;on chase Avenue 12:30 1 sion ti• for $1. Dr. On (C learn in health~ a rigo1 ing th• knowle past si present \Coil went c foundii days_o always what \ ing co: sequen· aLways their 1 lations: new w human of hun the ho A lis follows KapJ Thet Phi A! ph Phi In de] Deltl All ] Delt1 Frat• Beta :P:hi Phi KapJ Psi Sigrr Si:gn Kap] Chi Delt: Thet Alpll Phi Psi Kap Chi Phi Phi Kap Bet~ Sign Delt K'ap Delt Phi Sjgr: Deli ( The ~'-.ley's ....; medi~ -..J Leno::li ~ chase to t'h· tady 1 tiple frater cupy legal '- Until ~ Theta ... ~ house ' ~lJ 't, ,,::. ~ \Q

19&5 a11d educa- that that g1·eater lack of ndigent We but 'it be a - served. pol- enough- far the ·OUr sug~ Senate New polisi])le illegal best he de- the grip major our of pro- and not so many of . the to. unsafe, n:aybe chain finger ~bout of Council:. ; , Room' is the ' · the NEEDS St. Y. c:are 1288 . ~ ~ Gridiron Season Opens at Burlington Intras Begin As Garnet Faces Strong UVM Team ·With Net And (Continued from Pa:ge 1) :Grid Clashes Tony Cocozza, a .sophomove -trans.:. fer from .Alfred, •will be at ·center. He was switched from tackle dur- ,,.,,_,\'. 111 •,• • Both intram~ra;l. football and Jng sprin,g practice in an effort to ... ,,,,_,_,,,,,,,,_ .... ,• mtramural tenmB 'hlll be und~r\\ay. fill the .gap left by the graduation <- .. : .. :.:: ... , · next week. Entries for these of Ted Mattie. x.· .. ''': '· sports close tomorrow at noon. Rex Sa'hyer, a junior letterman, ,All fraternities or independen.t will open at right end for Uni·on. groups interested in football shou-ld Sav. yer, an exceUent defensive see Art Lawrence in his office, player and blocker, caught t\vo while tenn-is enthusiasts will find touchdown passes last year. :a:e :a list on the gyn·• bulletin board wHl also handle the extra-point to \'hich they should affix their and kickoff ·assignments. Dick namP, address, phone nurr ber, and A!llen and Gerry Larmour complete · hours when they '\\ill be available the Union line. Allen, a senior, for play. was our best offensive and de- Art La VI renee announced that fensive tackle last season. A the touch football league will be- bioclting back in high school, Lar- 'gin this Wednesday, and empha- mom' .was shifted to gu:Hd for the sized that independent team:s must. frosh in 1954. l submit their rosters early. He·. The re-built Vermont line will be· ··further advised all participants to composed of tackles Paul Harasi• ,_, b-ecome familiar VI ith the touch mD'wicz and Ken Kurjiaka, guards :~;:. · football rules. The main differ- Leroy Williams and- Bing Gilbert ences between touch and tackle ends John Galascione and Dick . football are as follows: Dennis or Arl: Soloinon, and center \'· !lob Gorman. They outweigh the Ed Janulionis (24) and Dick Lounsbury (59) will both see hea-vy 1. The field is o!ilY 50 yards Union forward wall by ten pounds duty tomolTow .when the Union football tea.m meets the Uitiversity long. per rran, 196 to 186. of Vermont at Burlington. Lmmsbw·y was the Garnefs ~c<md 2. There are nine men on a side.' Filling out the Catamount's back- leading ground gained last year while Janulionis called signals for 3. No regular football equipment field w111 be AI McLam or Dick the 1954 frosh eleven. may be used. Ja:hnoni at right half, and Marty 4, A team must score within Johnson at fullback Jannoni is a four downs. ~~~~~·onle;;e:m~~phao~oi:e. McLam . .. Student Counci~ Sug.gests 5. A man is \tackled\ only Coach Ed Donnelly of Vermont when touched by an opponent had this to say about Union: C-ampus· B• ·U l·let· in n•· ·Oards ':.. with both hands sirnultane- \They're tough and you can check 11 ously. last year's tie game if you W'ant 6. Blocldng is permitted only proof o'f that. They've got a vet-. The Student Council's first meeting of the academic on the line of scrimmage. eran line and a good bMkfiPl<;L ·year was held in Hale House lounge on Tuesday ev:ening, 7. Punts must be announced. J~,«;Y sho'!lld really be a test for .September 19. Steven Holbrook, President, called the hour Professor John BrMbury, v.ho l · t d t 7 30 • is in charge of intramural tennis, In a series dating ·back to 1900 .. · ong sessiOn 0 or er a . .: sa.id that there will ·be two tourna- Union has downed Vermont 11 P. M. The Council, with. 14 was appointed to arrange for ments this year, the President's times, lost seven and tied thr.ee. members present, worked ·buses to the Williams and RPI Cup tournament which is open to Union students traveling to Bur- ff t' l · II gaznes. This committee will con- upper classmen only, and a fresh- ling-ton for the game inay pur- very e eC .lVe y, passlng a . tinue to function during the bas- man tournament. Matches will chase tickets at the Colchester motions by unanimous votes. ketball season to provide trans- start Monday and v.ill be fitted Avenue ticket offi<>e b-eginning at A vote of thanks was extended portation for students desiring to into the participants schedules. A 12:30 tomorrow. General admis- to Professor Svcn Petersen, co- attend away games. list of matches will be posted at sion tickets will be on sale there ord 1 'nator of .stu·dent .Activities, and· th t M B db h •1 0 .Since telephone wives east of e cour s. r. ra ury emp a- for \' · 5 · Albert Barsamian, Freshman 'Or- Memorial Chapel are to be buried sized that during the early matches Dr. Brown Speaks On \Skills of Man\ (Continued from Page 1) learning is impossible without a healthy respect for tradition and a rigorous competence in develop- ing the skiils needed to make the knowledge and experience of the past significant and useful for the present and future. \Colleges and universities,\ he went on to say, \ever since their founding in the turbulent and vital days of the twelfth century, have always concerned themselves with what -constitutes the life-support- ing content of tradition. In con- sequence, they have, at their best, aLways attempted to be ahead of their time in foreseeing new re- lationships between old ideas an{l new ways of utilizing established human skills to enlarge the scope of human experience and to widen the horizons of man.\ A list of the fraternity rankings follows: Actual :R.ank Kappa Nu ............. . Theta Delta Chi ...... . Phi Sigma Delta ....... . Alpha Delta Phi ....... . Phi Sigma Kappa .... . Independents ... , ....... . Delta Chi ............. . All Men's Average ..... . Delta Upsilon . , .. , .... . Fraternity average ..... . Beta Theta Pi ........ .. Phi Delta Theta ....... . Phi Gamma Delta ..... . Kappa Sigma ..........• Psi Upsilon ............ . Sigma Phi ............. . Si:gma Chi ........... .. Kappa Alpha ......... .. Chi Psi ............... .. Delta Phi .............. . Improvement Ranlt 3.195 2.977 2.806 2.771 2.752 2:too 2.673 2.67() 2.658 2.646 2.629 2.605 2.591 ~.532 2.438 2.422 2.240 2,333 2.327 2.187 Theta Delta Chi . , ... · ... +.594 Alpha. Delta Phi ........ +.294 Phi Sigma Kappa ...... +.290 Psi Upsilon ........... , . +.288 Kappa Alpha .. , . , .. , . , . +.224 Chi Psi ................. +.139 Phi Delta Theta .... , . , . +.136 Phi Gamrra Delta .. , ... +.088 Kappa Sigma .......... , +.080 Beta Theta Pi .......... +.049 Sigma Phi .............. -.071 Delta Upsiion ........... -.080 Kiappa Nu ........... · ... -.080 Delta Chi ............... -.112 Phi Sigma Delta ....... -.116 S~gma Chi ........... , .. -.149 Delta Phi ............... -.239 ~--o--- -ientation Director, for -the splendid underground in the next three balls must be furnished by the jobs they did in making the orien.- weeks it was approved that the players. He added that there will tation program a success. An eval- coliege should purchase the under-. be no umpires for these early uation of the program will be .ground cable for WRUC. Because rr atches. forthcoming in the next few weeks. the radio station paid for new wir- ----o---- Frosh Grid Starts The first item of business . .con- ing two years ago. it was gener-· cerned the sponsorship of the Fall ally held that the rr oney should Prom. Although the Student not come from the Student Tax Council underwrites all college Corr:mittee. The purpose of bury- dances, it was decided that the ing the wires is to beautify the AFROTC Detachment V>ould again campus. The opening call for fr.eshmen football candidates saw 20 members of the class of '5~ respond to coa<;h Ronald Madsen, a junior, came .Ciccolella's announcement. As yet, sponsor the Fall Prom on Friday night of the ·Fall Weekend. The major item of business dealt with the question of having a bul- letin board situated on the upper part of the campus. In this way it was felt that the students living east of the class building v. ould be better informed of college events and changes in the sched- uling of campus activities. A mo- tion to the effect that a bulletin board be located near the tennis courts between Dewey and Bailey Halls will be submitted to the flresident's and business offices of . the college by council se·cretary Robert Hart.·merling. It was felt that the Campus Blood Drive promotion this year should be sponsored by a grotj.p rather than an individual. The council therefore, decided t'hat the Delphic Society should have the responsibility for the drive since the Delphics were willing to un- dertake the publicity promotion. Although it was a little late for obtaining ·buses to the Vermont game, a .committee of three volun- teers, Theodore Engkvist, Lynn · Hinman, and Robert Hammerling none of the• candidates have a back to the council t)lis year in place of Frank Rocco. Unfortun- chance to s'how their capabilities, ately the latter is no longer in and Ciccolella expects that there will be many changes in line-up college b·ecause of illness in the before a starting team is definitely fa.mily. Madsen \Vas next in line arrived at. The first week will be for the position according to last spent in conditioning and teaching spring's yoting, the fundimentals of the split T Meetings of the Student Council offensive. Ciccolella hopes that af- 11 ill be held every other Tuesday ter today's scrimmage he will have throughout the college year at 7:15 a better idea of the team's poten- p_ M. tial. X STOP $10.00 for $7.00 D~MBROSE CLEAN.ERS 637 NOTT STREET X STOP You get $10.00 worth of cleaning for $7.00 wh.en you buy tickets from our representative on the cctmpus or at our office. GET YOURS TODAY! The big news breezes in ••• Two n-ew campus. styles arrive, via Arrow. This button-down shirt, with soft rpll collar, marks a great advance-a new full-length back pleat for never- before comfort. As a fitting companion, Arrow offers a new chino slack with tapered legs, pleatless front and adjustable back strap . ~' Fraternity Housing \\-.: (COin.tinued from· PaJge 1) Chino slacks in black, tan and grey, $5.95. OxfoM shirt, $5.00, in stripes and solid colors. The second half of Dean Hunt-, ~'- ley's statement concerned t'he im- mediate future of the house on ::J Lenox Road which ha£ been pur- -..; chased by Theta Delta Chi. Due d to t'he restriction of the Schenec- tady zoning law which fol'bids mul- tiple dwellings on that street, the fraternity will not ])e able to oc- cupy the house until some sort of · legal ~>ettlement can be al'ranged. ~ Until that time, custodians from - Theta Delta Chi will maintain the house to insure its goo(J. condition. rlRROW• -first in fashion SHIRrS • UES • SLACKS Leads Vermont Eddie Beck, All-New England halfbaclc, will be th!\ IH·y figure in th!\ Vermont offpnsP. Bed' is a constant threat, both as a runner and as a .pass receiver. Booters Eye Better Year With the largest turnout in re- cent years, this edition of Franz Gleich's boaters shows promise of bettering last year's dismal 1-7 re- cord. T'he schedule for the 1955 season includes the opponents of .last year, with the addition of the tough Army J. V. team. The bright spot of last year's season was the 2-0 defeat of the Hamilton squad, which promises to be a much tough- er opponent this year. The squad, which started prac- tice on Tuesday, -September 20, numbers 41 men with only six returning lettermen. These six men: Dick Carpenter at left fullback, Jim Clark at center forward, Barry Wolfe.nson at outside left, Jon Da- vis as outside right, Steve Gluclt as center half and Howard Rosen- crantz as inside right, will form the nucleus of the squad. .A. position. of great doubt is the goalie slot, which was vacated by Jerry Jameson. Lea:ding in con- tention for this important position is J'oel Plattner, who had some ex- perience last year. Two sopho- mores also show considerable po- tential for this slot; Dan Berman and .John Mach. Other sophomores who are expected to strengthen the squad are Dave Anderson, Dick Steinbrenner, Erich Ziller and Cha.rlie Fraser. · There are five exchange students on the squad, with Alvars de Al- encar of Brazil showing great pro- mise. The other four; Carl Brylid of Denmark, Solon Arellano of Chili, Peter Clark from St. And-. rews in Scotland and Klaus Steiner of Austria are fine boaters and will add considerable strength to the squad. Harriers To Face Vermont On October 8 Union's cross-country season opens October 8, when the Dutch~ men play host to a strong Ver- mont team in the first of six: scheduled meets. John Parillo, an outstanding so- ph0more last year, will ret4rn this season as top man and Captain. During the su·n tmez·, John received a ~ut on his foot which required several stitches, but the injury has not seemed to affect his running. The second slot on the team will be filled by Tom Lawrence, top man on last year's freshmen squad', while two sophomores, Bud Shaw and Bill Wintersteen will be battling for third and fourth posi- tions. It still looks li•ke a wide open race for fifth man, with George Riley, Jim and Ted Caven- der, Joe Urban and Bob Sinullens as competing members. Although he has a good one- two punch, Coach Bill Ketz feels that there is not enough balance for a really ·good year. \The varsity should beat last year's 2-3 record. With a lot of hard work, they can b-reak even,\ said Ketz. The brightest spot in the cross- country picture is the freshman team. After only a few days prac- tice, Coach Ketz was able to say, \This freshmen team is the best w·e've had in many years. There is no question about it.\ Men like Joe D'Innocenzo, Richard Lew:is, Dick Ruquist, Geoffrey Plets,ch, Matt Wagner, Gus Davis, .Tim Sweet and others will make Union a strong cross-country power in the years to come. Vermont appears to be the five-milers' toughest opponent this year. Though the harriers have improved, it seems doubtful that they can beat the powei:\ful Burlington contingent. The Dutchmen meet RPI at Troy, October 15, and Colgate and Hamilton at home, October 28 and November 12, respectively. Other contests scheduled are the New York State Championships at Clinton, November 5 and the I. C. A. A. A. A. meet at New York City, November 14. The freshzr.en run against Delhi, October 12 at horne, and RPI and Cobleskill away, Octol;ler 15 and 26, respee- tively. Copies of this year'sFresbman Record are available for fresn- man advisors and may be pick- ed in the Student Activities Office. * * * Mr. Arthur Lawrence 'has just announced that an intercolleg- iate bowling team is being or- ganized. Everyone interested in this sport should report to the trophy room in the gymnasium at 1 P.M. Monday. JOS. NUSBAUM INC. KHAKI FOR COLLEGE • Made like Expensive Slacks • Tailored with Slim Look • Back Strap and Adjustable Buckle • Low Hip Fit • Best Talon Zippers • Quality Fabrics WAIST SIZES 29-34 Already Cufft;ld Inseams 29-34 Jos. Nusbaum Inc. Young Men's Shop The Nations Leading Brands For Men & Boys 447 - 451 STATE STREET

·, 4 ChemClub Sets Award As part of a long needed reor- ganization and revitalization, the Chemistry Club, Union's Student Affiliate Chapter of the American Chemical Society, passed the fol- lo.wing n:otion at its first meeting: \In. urdt:r L<~ fur\\ard its aims as set forth in the constitution, the Union College Chemistry Club will award a prize in the amount of twenty dollars ($201 to the undergraduate student or students in the college who qualify in the following .-rr.anner: 1\) by prepal'ing and presenting before the club an original demonstration lecture deal- ing vlith any subject in the field of Chemistry (or Chem- istry and allied fie Ids of science), 2) by being judged as havin·g prepared and presented thP best demonstration lecture by a student <or students) during the course of the school year. The prize will be awarded in May. In case> of ties. the prize will he divided equally among the v.inners. A committee of judgL'S repnsenting- the depart· ment and the students will be made up as follows: a) three n-ember.; of the teaching staff <chosen as far as possible. to reprl'- sent Pach of the divisions of chemistry, i.e., Physical, analytical and organl'c). b) one graduate assistant in thl' departrrent, c) the PresidPnt of the Chem- Lstl-y Club.'' The competition is open to anv· student in the College: Liberal Arts, Eng-ineering or Science. · Anvone \'-' ishing to compete is r~qu~sted to leave his name and a brief dPs-cription of his topic in the Chemistry Club mailbox in the department office. A date will then be scheduled for the presenta- tion. FRIDAY; SEPT&;MBER 23,· 1955 \The Night of the Hunter'' Garden ReJJlaces Campus Roundup By Arl:lold. Goldschlag_m· 7U 71/T: ZI: ll 1 •10 00 It · ted th t · 1.. vavy·. 1P'.l.€SS C.l.6 The first art exhibit of the schoo· ., . . ' li; sugges . a every . The dormitory was silent • , . . tice of barbering or hold him- year, fel).turing the worlts of Char- student keep a personal record of not the ominous ·calm preceedin~< self ou.t to the public as being 1 A · Assl><tant Professor his assembly· attendance. A.ttention \ By this time most u.pp.erclassmen es nnan, new ~ a riot, but a .poignant stillness, as able to do. so or conduct a: f A t \11 b g' \'unday oc•o· ber l.s caH.ed to ·stud en. ts. carryin_g the P robably have notic~ the many o · r s, WI e ·Ill \' ., · ~ if a thousand ears were -listening-, barber shop without a license f \' t 3 p ~~ Thereafte~ the ex- design· ation. • \Sp· ecial Student.\ Any - physical improvements, :aside .rom \' a · · J.VL. · •• Suddenly from a dark limousine therefor, or s'hall violate any the new field house, made by the hi bit will remain open for the next . such student ·anticipating :becom4ng six masked figw·es emerged, These provisions o-f this article .... , College. They still remember thvee weeks between the hours of a degree candidate later is re- · villanous creatures proceeded to the shall be guilty of a misde- the. days· and part.ies of the 1 .to 9 P. M. min.ded ·seven terms of assembly •J'oom of one of our prominent: meaner and upon conviction a•re required for graduation. freshmen and carried hiiU off to shall be punishable 'by an im- Navy .ines:> hall whi<:h- \Vas con- . * .* '!t~ . .x, ·X· * . S h t d h t .h structed adJ'acent to- South Col- Mr John Lansmg, ~vLUI>IC Depart- Th·e Law School Aqm-t'ssinn Test, the suburbs of c enec a y w ere prison:n:ent for not more an II t h d t M t pr tHigh the~· pro<'eeded tCl rPiiPVP h'im of six months or by ,a_ fine nf nnt l'onade during World War · ·,. men ea · a oun · e~an t th required of applicants for admis\ the superfluous areount of hair more than $50(} or by .both as part of the Navy V-~ 2 and V-u· School since 1931 • will uec e ston to •a number of leadi-ng Am- happily growing atop his cFanium. such fine and imp-r-tsonment .programs. Last sum~er the build-. Union College Glee Club through- erican Law schools, will be giv~n Being artistic by nature, the finish- and each violation shall be irrg was torn down 10 be replaced out the coming year .. He replaces at more t'han 100 centers t):lrough- ed pattern happened to result some- deemed a separate offense. by a. walled garden and a new: Mr. R.o'i:>ert Campbell, dire.ctor ?f out the United States on the morn- what similar to the 21st letter -of Arise barbers of Schenectady! porch. This is one. ' 0 f the few: t'he organization for tl>e past si.x ings of Novemqer 12, i955, Febru- b t I b l k \U\ t 1 b t steps in improving Hale House years, w'ho plans to contmue. h1.s · amr 18 , April! 21 , and August 11 , the alpha e , name Y a oc • You hav~ nothing o · oee · u your since 19 35 vvhcn it \\\as converted gTaduate studies at HarV3fd U:m- 19 • 56 ' • · the symbol of our alma matter. clippers. Rid our fair campus of h 11 F d F d t The block \U\ was accepte<l in these novices who dare to corrupt from class rooms to a. dining a · versity under a or · oun a IOn Bulletins and applications for the• good spirit, being as much a tra- this fair and pure prafession. Re- In the chemistry labor.alory-, over: Fellowship. . test should be obtai-ned. four t0 .six dition of Union as the grotesque turn the long-lost art of bar.bering $12,000 was spent for. si~ new solid· * * * · weeks in a;dvance of the desired idol on upperC\lassmen's walk. How- to the ZC'nith it •.mce enjoyed dur- oak laboratory tables. Each .table The Rathskeller will begin .its testing date from Law School . .A.d- ever the informGd citizenry of ing the Hellenic age. is equipped with elect!\ical autlets .. sixth year of operation Sunday, mission Test, Educational Testing Schenectady, a body vespeetful of o T''he old tables, howeYtH, ha:ve lasted .. September 25. It Will then ·be open Service, 20 Nassau Street, Prince- law and. or·der, and most of all remarlmbly well since 1918, the year· daily and :Sunday between the ton, N. J. Completed applications J 'ustice, has taken off~nsc to this vo.r vo·ur L.n . .&o in which the laborutaory was bui.Jt. hoUrS of 4;;30 P, M. to midnight. must be received at least -10 days Seeml ·ngly hat·mless college prank. .l 1 1 .1. ~ I~ • • All those interested in working at before the desired testing date in The old arrr.y barracks of Dutch-' the 'Skel.ler .s·hould attend one of ET. co· t··- · t It See m~ that thuse \itinerant- FRIDAY, SEPT. 23 -Da-ily assem- h d 78 ord'er to allow . .,. 1me o com- ~ man·s Village which once a the re_gular Wednesday nig· ht meet- 1 t th · t - t' · barbers \ havn committed -an un- bly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. · d. d p e e e necessary es. mg arrange: , housing units for ·man·1e men an · 1 ·ngs, beginnine- at. 7:30. t f h d'd t forgivable crime in the eyes of the ML', noon; -Pre.;:ident &nd Mrs. theit· families were aLso co-mpletely i * * men s or -eac can I a e. law, narrely, practicing barbering Da'.'idson's r£>ception to the FaC'ulty, .torn down. After thfr debris is: Professor Alan Roberts will In- * * * \\ •J\thout a l!'cnnsn '· Ha·l~ Housn. 0 \30 P. M. d t f tl 1· d ·• 1 '11 b~· · · The P. hilotnatheans, Union's de- ' ' ,- ' \ r<\JnoVL· . par o 1c · u.n \ · ~ ·traduce this year's }lELP students · The following <'Xcerpts IHJ\'•' hC'Pn s.\Tt:iUol.-tY, !'<\F. PT. 21 \'ar~ity , 1. • 1 r,•d for anoth 0 r .fothnll field to the student body at Tuesday bating society, held their first meet- taken from th<' statutes of GPneral foothall. Union vs. \'Nmnnt at Bur· This ·,;ill hrlp prrserve Library chapel, September 26 . They areAl· ing of the year Mond,ay night, Business Law of New Yor··k State: lmgton, 1 30 P. M. F'ield. The eastc>rn pa.rt of ti\le plot varo Alencar (Bta.ZH>, Solon Are!- September 12. Jqhn Baltay, club Article 28-Practicing of Bar bering SlJNDAY, SEPT. 2:1 -Sunda·y ser· :w. 11 LL•nox nuad will he .converted:. lano (-chi Psi), Carl Bryld (Delta president, disclosed this .Y.ear's na- 43(}-PurposP of Article -The need vice. prmclwr. Dr. l'iornran V. Hope into a much needed ]larlting area. Phi), Jens Skov <Delta Chi), Klaus tiona! topic; Resolved: That the fol. tec·h·n 1 1 ·cA.l <ki'Il. trA.ining ex- of the p 1 • 1 ·nceton Th••olo.,.iral Semi- n It ) H . t' non-agricultural industries should· · '\' Fresidt•nt Davidso11'ti :home, the' Steiner \.(Phi Ganur.a ;....e a , ors · 1 P eriPnce, \\. ood health. £!ood mo- nar'·· i\IC, 11 A. M. T'wo points Ph' s· T-'\ ) d guarantee their ernp oyees an an- \ <J ' -homes of several profess-()Fs, as wen Malbrich ( 1. 1grna nappa . an 1 ral character and other fund- credit>; Student acti\'itir·s commit as the Administration J:Ju.ilding were. Rene Polissier <Kappa Nu\l.. nua wage. amental qualities .and qualifi· tee, Hale housP lounge. 3 P. M. repainted. You may •have noticed. * * * ' r----\\\\--~-------, cations in p£>I'sons Pngrrgrd in MONDAY, St:PT. 26-Bihl£> Sturly also that the waiting wom. in Silli- A seat in the Chapel has been Anyone interesting in working the praPtiC'P of harhPri ng, have group, Hair house loungP 7-8 P. i\I. man Hall was made J:JJUa!ler. This assigned• each student for Tuesday on the Garnet staff should at •. unquestionably (stab!ished and Tl:I':SDAY, SEPT. 27-Daily as· is because mGre ·space was needed and Friday assemblies. If anyone . tend a general meeting in the· demonstrated .... bee a use of sem'bly, Prof. Alan Roberts and the ·to be used for additional equip- cannot locate his place, he should Publications Office, Thursday, · the C'vils of itinerant baJ-bE>rs .new foreign vi~itors, MC noon. nlent. Then too. a new asphalt report to Dr. IDgbert K. Bacon. September 29, at 4:30 P. M. · und barber shops .... it is th•• vrt:nx i~SDA \', SKPT. 2N -LAST floor ('overing has J:\ec entlr been Each student must have an assign- Those unable to attend should · pur.pose of the legi~lature in DAY FOR SCHEDULE CHA:'-:GI:GS; insta.Jied in the -infirmary. ed ·seat or he will be marked get in touch with J.oseph Mar- enacting this article . . . . to I ;,·an pus \Rosary\ OC, noon con,• \Failed\ and req-uired to make up torano at Kappa Nu. \ protect the lives, htalth and' [JOint L'IeditJ; Chricitian A:;sn .. :1-lC. ;>;ew pipe lines have ·been .put into 20 points and pay a failure fee of well being of those pc>rsons who noon: Jewish Fellowship, SH!iman service to replace the old distribut· patronize the barber shops of hall, noon; Alliance Franc!ase, OC, ing system between the Biology our state. B P. M. huilding and the Ha:ppa Alpha 444-Any person who shall directly THURSDAY, SEPT. 29-Fraternity house, and between £il.lirnan Hall or indirectly engage in the prac- 1 Night. a.nd the Adn:in·istratian .building. • • Know these Smoke TomorrowS better cigarette*...-~~ Today- campus characters? THE GRIND. Sometimes they call him the Professor. But most classmates call him a bore; He knows his texts from cover to cover. But ask him w~o Bulganin is and you get a blank stare, Naturaliy. He Enjoy a Cool Mildness never possible before! SMO,KING! Chest-erfield BEST FOR YOU! never sees a newspaper. If you can get his nose out of a book, give him this suggestion: Read The New York ~-·It makes you a well-rounded person l THE RAH·RAH, HEY ·HEY BOY. This is the fellow who knows Aristides only as the horse who won the first Kentucky Derl;ly. Talk books or politics to him and all you get is a senseless grunt. He pulls down an \A\ in Phys Ed, but falls on his face in economics and government. Pull him away from the scrimmage session and give him this tip.: Read The New York Times. It helps you raise your grades! · THE NOT•SO•ALL·AMERIC:AN CO·ED. Other girls may be the sweetheart of Sigma Chi, but not this drooping wallflower. She sews and cooks and hits the books. But for conversa- tion with the men- well, she hasn't found one yet who cares about her latest recipe for veal ragout. Give her this helpful advice: Read The New Yollk Times. It helps make you more interesting! MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED. Stop by his dorin room and you'll always find him the center of a bull session. He has all the facts, all the argumehts. No wonder. He keeps well in• formed by reading The New York Times, the newspaper that keeps you up on the facts in bull sessions and in the classroom. Take this tip: Read The New York Times. It pays I Read The New York Times every day. Order it now. See your campus representative. DANIEL CLAPP i '. \ ,' Vol. 85, ~ Slit~ c Willi Council, l day, .Sept Sutka, w special el \I'm ver~ to the Cou the Rathsk noitments 1 me to devc position. ] my appreci -done to m: So that executive • it \!1 as ag-rc ident imm• dent of K and Juhn F Delta Thet posed. .Su1 tion rcceiv votes cast ident. DisCI Rushing composites, best float tonight c topics of d Some fra houses abi of the rush \No new f invitation three days stances •wih mort) than were cited . . body prop fraternity invitation more than he should r fraternity .. cancel the Clarificai t\!l.a seemi Rule Ia in invitations dates\ in 1 rushing. I that \ ... ten invita1 Council. to unanimous· cedence ov Coffee h• VI also cr most of t attended. coffee hom day of the and Tuesd will be bel• during rus allow all not being selves to t Seek Suggestic uation inc publicity, ~ >an open h• Friday nig of rushing mitting fr men whon: Last spri fraternity th:e HPC to in vestig committee' ing taken wHh a r Fraternal Because will receiv receipts, ~ addition, be a·ble t. stead of t· .be guara delivery. · of a holisE posite, th be include will be c The las cerhed thE for a tro the frater Amherst\ ac;te tonig!: a commitc chase the ALL porters freshmaJ .attend a cations - October • ilnip~rati new sta at the t' eral ba tl!e pat: . featru:es

every of the Any is re- Test, admis\ Am- giV!'l\ll morn- Febru- 11, for the: tG .six desired Ad- Prinoe- days date In oom- de- meet- night, club na- the should an an- at •. the · M.· Mar- • i Tulips and I Cbimneys Read Pa9e 2 Vol. 85, No. 2 Founded at llnion College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y •• SEPTEMBER 30, 1955 Football :Review Read 'Page 3 PRICE TEN CENTS Sutka New HPC Prexy; Council Reviews Rushing :Sy Daniel ,Papel\nik Class of '59 Parades in Pajamas Tonight; Fraternities S·ubmit ''Beat Amherst'' Floats William Matthews, President of the House Presidents Council unexpectedly resigned before the body at the Tues- day, S~ptember 25 meeting. He was succeeded by Joseph Sutka, who was chosen in a • --~~------~--~--~~~-----------------------------------i> By Edwa1•d. Langholz special election that eveJJ.ing. An·n. ·a·n· Sho-w· \I'm very sorry,\ said Matthews, to the Council, \but my work in the Rathskeller and my other con.- o s d noitments mal{e it impossi·ole for p· ens. un .. ay me to devote my full time to this position. I ·V<.ould like to express .An invitational opening to be my appreciation for all that you've hel'd at Old Chapel .Sunday. Oo- done to make this job easier.\' tober 2, will begin a three- So that the continuity of the VI eek exhibit of drawings and executive •'-'OUid not be broken, ·paintings -by Charles. M. Annan, it VI as ag-reed to elect a new pres- Assistant Professor of Art at Un~ ident immediately. Sutlm, P1·esi- ion .and instructor of painting at dent of Kappa Sigma Fraternity the schenectady Museum. Sun- and John Rooney, President of Phi day's ·opening will be held from 3 Delta Theta Fraternity, were pro- to\5 p.M., while exh-ibit hours there- posed. .Sutka, after a closed eleo- after are set .for 1 to 9 P. M. Uon. received a majority of the daily. votes cast and VIas declal·ed Pres- Mr. Annan is teaching a -course ident. in Basic Design at Union similar Discuss Float Trophy to one he organized at the Uni- Rushing complaints, fraternity versity of Colorado. where he in-. composites, and the trophy for the structed graduate and beginning best float at the pajan a .parade. art classes since 1948; It VI as tonight constituted the other during that year that he ·won the topics of discussion. · first prize for painting in the Some fraternities felt that other .National Students Asso-ciation houses abiding were by Rule V Sho•w, and since then his work has of the rushing laws. Rule V states, been included in such major na- \No new sfudent shall accept an tional exhibitions as the Corcoran invitation for a meal more than .Biennial and the annual exhibi- This se.ene will be repeated a.ga.ht tonight as another freshman class ushers in the home football op~er with the tJ;aditionail pajama paradt'. ThP (]lass of '58 is approching .the site of their bonfire in the above pictw·e. three days in advance\ · · · In- tions of the Whitney Museum and J ff stances owhen rusheeS' were inv-ited the Pennsylvania Acaden:&. Ga· ·r· n·et F.a·ces Lord e. s mort} than .six days in ad:vance Purchase prizes awarded Annan were cited. After discussion, the include those presented b-y- the p· b ll 0 , .body proposed a solution; if a Bnooklyn Museum and the Dallas In. H· ome oot· a . . . pe.ner fraternity 1nerr:•ber sees a meal Museum. He has earned fln envi- invitation for another fr.a.ternity able record of honors fol'\ his Tomorrow afternoon, the Garnet football team will play more than three days in advance, painting, drawing and intaglio he should report it to the offending work. Paintings selected for Un- host t'o Amherst in a game that will begin at 2 P. M. on fraternity •\l.'l'hich is then obliged to ion's exhibit will include composi- Alexander Field. Union lost to Vermont 33-6 last Saturday cancel the date. tions of an abstract nature in oil while the Lord Jeffs' homei> Clarification 1\'\as -called for on and water color, as w•ell as non- two seemingly conflicting rules. abstract drruwings in varied me- opener against Colby w~s Tax Group Names ~~i~al~~~~ci~~e~;:~~t::~~~~ ~na~ dia. coauntbcer 1 e 1 ael~ beocnaustehe 0 f ~~~;~~ Meyer ·Secreta-ry dates\ in the definition of formal Included in Shows '\ rushing. Rule XI, however, states Annan has exhibited In two of campus. that \ ... There shall be no writ- his own showings and has been a Sam Hammerstrom has put the ten invitations for meals.\ The participant in several group shows va.rsity through a hard \l';eek cor- Council, to end the conflict, voted -of younger American artists. He recting mistakes that were evi- unanimously to give rule XI pre- has earned the recognition of such dent in the Vermont garr.e. Against cedence over Rule Ia. notab-les in the art field as Paul Vermont missed assignments, both Coffee hours mentioned in Rule :Burlin, artist-in-residence at Union on offense and defense, were costly. VI also came under attack since last year who began the first Hammerstrom has also been work- most of them were ·very poorly studio credit -course in the Col- ing closely with centers and punt- attended. The rule states, \A lege's history and Andrew Richie, ers this ·week in an effort to elim- coffee hour on Thursday and Fri- Director of the Museum of Modern !nate careless snap-backs in punt day of the first week and Monday Art in New York. formation. and Tuesday of the second week Expressing his views before his One of the factors which rr.ay will bE' held from 4:30 to 5:30 P. M. newly acquired classes, Annan re- hurt Union's chances is a.n injury during rushing. Its purpose is to marked that in today's world in- to halfback Dave McDermott. Me- allow all new students who are · dividuality is threatened as ex- Dermott has pulled, a groin muscle, not being rushed to sho<w them- perience becomes atomized; in his and at this time It is uncertain selves to the fraternities. \>'ork the artist attempts contin- w·hether he will see action. With Seek Greater PubliO!ity ually to assert the worth of in- . the exception of McDermott and .Suggestions to remedy the sit- dividual expression. He states, guard Bob Delaney, who is suf- uation included more and better however, that although the artist's fering from a cold, the team is in publicity, and as a substitute plan, major responsibility is toward his good physical shape. >an open house to be held the first art, he must \supplement his con- .Starting for Union on the line Friday night or Sunday afternoon tri:bution to society •by use of the will be Lou Martucci and Rex of rushing for the purpose of per- spoken or written word,\. aiming Sawyer at the ends, John McMahon mitting fraternities to see fresh- to integrate· the fine arts with oth- and Dick. Allen at tackle, Gary men whom they are not rushing. er aspects of his time. (Continued on Page 3) Last spring, oornplaints about fhe The Student Tax Committee has chosen Randolph Meyer, former HPC President, as its secretary. Frank~ Rocco, who was selec'.:ed for this post last year, was unable to return to college because of ill- ness in his family According to Jerome Cohan, chairman of the committee-\Roc- co's departure was quite a loss to both the Tax Committee and the Student Council. He Was a very capable person and a person gen- erally interested in student activ- ities.'' Randolph Meyer, a junior, was J;>resident of the HPC during the second semester of his sophomore year. He is a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity and a veteran. The Class. of '59 knows him as a member of the Freshman Orient- ation Committee. The office of Sec:retary of the Student Tax Committee is always held by a junior. A Short, Short Fable Ease Amherst Polio Control Students at Amh12rst College breathed a ~gh of relief today as they emerged from a ten day quarantine period imposed by Presi- dent Charles W. Cole Monday even- ing, September 19. The quarantine, which followed on the heels of two reported polio cases on the Arr.- herst campus, spread to include both Smith and Mount Holyoke within 48 hours. Exhibiting characteristic aplomb, the Amherst Student succeeded both in impressing the student body with the necessity of adher- ence to the restrictions and in lessening the blow with some tastt.- fui good humor. An editorial stressed the seriousness of 'the sit- uation while the r-enaming of a customary ·frosh-soph fracass as \Quarantine-Inspired Riot\ plus some \Quarantine Quotes\ served to relax the tmdt>rgraduates. With the arrival of the weekend, Arr.lherst men began to feel the· pinch. Women were banned from the fraternity houses. This, ad- ded to the confinement, clamped a strangle hold on !hn school's social life. The first foothaU game of the season with Colby ·College was cancelled and for a time the Union game seemed doubtful. One of the two students stricken, a junior, was reported to he \on the road to· recovery\ from a non- paralytic case. Information was not available on the other student, who is a member of the class of 1958. Once upon a time there was a • Throughout the crisis, the em- The Class of '59 will follow many of its predecessors to- night, as it parades through the streets of Schenectady dressed in the traditional pa- james and beanies. This year, howeve!\ the Freshman Orientation Committee has attempted to inject a note of order int0 the proceedings while still following a p_elicy of \fun for aiL\ Freshmen v.ill assemble at 7 P. :M. at the flagpole, and the parade VI-ill get under way from there. with the Union., band and memucrs of the cheering squad !t:ading the songs and cheers. Houses Enter Floats This yPar, for the first time, n any of the fraternities will have \Beat Amherst\ f.loats at the parade. The best float v.-ill be awarded a cup by the HPC. Also riding alo!lg VI ith the fresh in a string of -open cars ·will be many college offi·cials and members ·Of the football team. The frosh .will move toMJ.rd Payne gate, 'VIhere they will <be joined by the floats and cars. The whole g:roup will then head toward State Street via Nott Terrace. From there they will march down the hill to Erie Boulevard, then over to Union Street and back up to the campus. The motivation behind the at- tempt to tone down the parade has been the extensive damage caused .by previous marchers. Money collected for damages comes from the Student Activities Fund which means less money for 'campus activities 'for the year. Last year, the bill was $100 and in former years passers- by have been hurt. There is al- ways the possibility of an expens- ive law suit. There \11 ill be no rough-housing or beanie snatching while on Sche- nectady streets, but as soon as a freshman steps back on campus, he is fa~r game. It is hoped that the parade will improve eollege- comrr•unity relations. The night's events will be tape recorded by radio station WS~Y and broadcast on Monday mormng on it's program Here. The Gazette and Union-Star will also cover ~he parade. .Bonfire on Daley Field Once bac:k on campus, the fresh- men will proceed to Daley Field for the huge bonfire and pep rally. Each fresh was required to bring two crates or the equivalent amount of wood to Daley Field to feed the tremendous blaze. The pre- sentation of the HPC cup for the best float will take place at the fire. The freshmen will be put through their paces by the cheer- leaders, after which members of the .fooball team will give their outlooks on the Amherst game, fraternity composites prompted the HPC to set ·up a committee to investigate. As a result of the committee's findings, a:ction is •be- ing taken, and a contract made with a new representative, the Fraternal Composite Service. scheduled for 2 P. M. tomorrow f th phasis on the ca'T..pus was place-d college. This college was one o e They arrived in short cars and long In any event, the little man walk- on the lost social .Jifc. The Am- afternoon. small balanced variety. It was well cars, dark cars and light oars. They. ed slowly and. resolutely into t.hP hei'st Student qUote& \'a rio us cam- The pajama parade originated as endowed, but not so wealthy that came by train and bus; some even ·meeting of the higher echelons. HI\ pus figures on the quaran\ine: a device to help win the first home it might be spendthrift. It_ was by plane. They held rallies and walked almost as if he> had been An Am1lel'st man-When they say football game. It was known that Because of the change, the HPC will receive 10 percent of the gross receipts, approximately $200. In addition, individual students will be a·ble to choose from four in- stead of two .photographs and will -be guaranteed pre-Thanksgiving delivery. If 80 percent of members of a hotise decide to buy the com- posite; the men'bers' na.llles will be included and the fraternity seal will be colored. The last item of business con-· cerhed the appropriation of money for a trophy to be presented to the fraternity with the best ''Beat Amherst\ float in the Pajama Par- ade tonight. By a. unatlimous vote a' committee was selected to pur- chase the cup. ALL OON·CORDIENSIS re- porters a.nd members of the fresh:ma.n sta.ft' are requested to attend a ·meetin~; in the Publi- cations ()ffice, Monday evening, Oorober 3 at 7:30 P. M. It is • imperative that al.l attend a.s new staff heads will be named at the time who will effect sev- . eral basie t•eorganizations in the paper's news, · sp01ts and . featu:res department!!. respected, but not so mucl:i: de- torch light parades, they made slo- to a meeting of the higher echelons . you can't ieave, it makes you the visiting football team was stay- sired that it could be cocky.. gans and signed petitions. They before. He opened his briefcase really want to get out. I've been ing pvernight at the Hotel Van Most of the students at th1s col- marched into the meeting of the and liftl\d out his case. The higher here two days and 1 hate thP place Curler, so a group of students lege were happy students. They higher echelons and presented their echelons gasped. It was monstrous! already marched down to the hotel in an worked hard, but not too hard. case. It was not a long case; it Why, it was immense! It was a A sophomort'\ What's !l'ft to do attempt to keep the visiting team They played hard, but not too harO:. was simple and to the point. \The whole big pile of papers! But but riot? J awake all night. The route has Most of the faculty at this col- baseball team needs where to prac- the little man, as if accustomed, A t•ushing chairman--Here I'w I since been changed, but, ever since lege were happy faculty too. They tioe. The lacrosse team needs ·began to read. He read on and on been telling •the fresh about t-he then, each freshman class has were .paid a comfortable wage, but where to practice. The soccer team -page after page. The higher ec- great social life. They'll nP\'E'!\ he- taken a nocturnal sojourn through not too comfortable, and they were needs where to practice. The foot- helons composed themselves and lieve me again. the streets of Schenectady, looked up to. ball team needs where to practice. went to sleep. But still the little As you can see, this was as fine The ROTC needs where to march.\ man read on. a small, balanced college as one The higher echelons were m,uch He told some vague story about \Paisan\ Opens Film Series Tonight at Museum; could desire. Until, ·one day, the impressed. They listened and they the outmoded library. He said that Union Students May Purchase Tickets at Dool' college discovered that it had an . thought. \Hinm. . Logical,\ they is was completely filled to the brim outmoded gymnasium and ·an equal- thought, \Logical and clear,\ they with books. He said that it was Based on the Allied campaign • ly outmoded library. That day, thought. \Logical clear, and spoken usually completely filled to tho in. Italy during World vVar II, the program will also include a short, the small, balanced college with authority,\ they thought. brim with students. He even Italian film Paisan, lhill open this Be Gone, DUill Care, -in which jazz trembled (at the administrative \Hmm! Very convincing,\ they brought in some silly thing called season's international film feslival music is interpreted through lines level, of course)~ What was to be· thought. an \Annex\ and said that, that too, at the Sche'nectady Museum to- and colors. done.? Those in the highe1· echelons Second and last tQo arrive was the was completely filled to the brim. night, September 30. There li\ ill be Ale_c ·Guiness takes eight roles of the college met to consider the expert for the new improved li- He said that very soon he must show-ings at 6:30 and 8:30 P. M. in 1\.md Hearts and Coronets, De- problem. It was a very complex brary. He was a little man, and .begin tQo throw out books. He said Four short films made by Charlie cember 2. The final program, De- problem and a very difficult one not vety young. ·And, while he. engineers had told him that very Chaplin in 1916 and 1917 \'ill mal'e cember 16. will include two Russian to solve because, you see, the col-· still smiled, he was a bit dis- -soon he ml:ght have to throw out up. the October 14 program. They pictures: l'otemkin, famous silent lege had only enough money to re- couraged and tired. I have for-· the second floor of the library. HI) are The Rink, The Vag·abond, Easy movie, and The Fish and the Fish- place one of these outmoded build- gotten this little man's name, but even sa.ld· tha:t very soon he might Street, and The Adventurer. erman, an animated cartoon with ings. it rhymed with \Rebb.\ The little have to- throw out students. He Scenes from the •world of the narration in English. The higher echelons met long and man arrived on foot. It seems reminded the higher echelons that 19th Century French theater cotre Tickets may be purchased at ·hard. They considered, Inspected, that he lived only a short distance books tended to promote learning. to life iri Les Enfants d.u Paradis, the door tonight for the entire discussed, and~called for experts. ·away in a very quaint dome-like He remarked that he thought October 28. The Blue Angel, to be series. The series is sponsored First to arrive were the experts house which was dreary and small, this was what small balanced col- seen November 11, established the by the Friends of the Schenectady .for the new improved. gymnasium. but had a nice basement. (Continu.ed on Page 4) · career of Marlene Dietrich. This Museum.

2 Olnutnr Member Associated Colle- giate Press and d !str!b- lltor of the Colle~;:!ate Digest. National Adver- tising 'Representative: .!'~a­ tiona! Advertising Servk<', Inc., College l'ublishers Hepresentatlve, 420 .:llaui- gon Ave., N. Y. C. PuiJ- li&hed every Friday of th\ school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College, Pub- lication ·offil!e, The Ga· z\tle .Pre•s, 33'4 State St. Entered in the Scheneo- ttt<ly l'ost Office as Sec- ond Class :\!ail Matter, subscription lOc a copy ; $3 a renr deli\'erec.l a·nY- where In the United ::itates. SE:O.liJH lHIAltD .IEHH<l!.l• I I!IHSCIIE;>; '67 ..... ~·~71·•.' ....... Editur-in-L'hief MARTIN ZI:\D1EIC\TA!'< '56 ..... :-3ti·ll ........... \,so<\i:tte ~:dltor A.Llf'RE.D NA.LlEL '&6 .• , , •........ \i-~u~u . . . . . . . . . . . Bu~tne~\ .\tanager E'L' 1 \V~HLJ CLuu~. JH. ·fi7 ........ .J-~tJ:•u ....... l·~atuH!::i l!:t.iitur Blt>\'\HI\ S 1 .. \:'-:•:fi<>T.Z ·;;; ...... 1•11. ... . :'-:ews E<litor BElU\AHD CU!lB:--: '56 ..... ~·-:loll t'ln·ulat-ion :'llanagt•r Jl':O.l\IU HOAHIJ ROBEHT !:>l'H.\HF '5C ...................................... Art Editor ROBERT JllALIXEH 'GG................... .. . . . . . .... Copy Ec.litor PETER JATLOW '67 ..•..................................... <'opy F.<1itor N0RTUN REA.Mli:H '57 ..••.................•••.. Assistant News Editor CHAHLES t.:AitL '57 •................... , ......... , ..... Activilieti hditot STAXLEY !-'<II( IV.\:--; ll ·:.G ............. :'\>tt :uual .\d\ l'lllstng ~laua~et STE!PHEN K!I1AI<'EL '57 . . . . . . . ...............•....... Exr·hnnge F.rlitor BERNARD B8RKOW!T'L. '57 ....•...........•........•.. Headllne Editor· HUXAL!J CL!X E '\7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l.ucal Ach ci tl>tng ~lunage1 HFPOHTEHS Joel Buxbaum. Bruee Ho\<.lau, l 1 etl·1· Cns .... i:ettl, HohPrt t 'ola·n. Jat·ksull Goddard, !\.lark t }reen~pnn. t 'hnrles H:1ckenyos, Hkh:t rtl Lewis, 1 laniel J:->ap6mll<. :'llkl!ael l'lltcu•. l'aul Huoen. l·'IIFS!DI.\:'1' ST.\FF Morde~ai llraun,teill, Hobert !1eminf;', ~li<'hael Enzer, Jeno!Ll }'leislwr, Leo Fritsf'hler, Peter <toldfine. Arnold Uoldschlage1, \\'illiam tirus~. Anthony UuiLiarelh, l~enucth Ha::;;=,un, Druce Hauruuau, l\.enn~.:th Hu.}t, H.ol.Je1 t K~:::;:;let', Hull~ It Kli11e, .Juhn h.u\at·tk, Lndu Lurilall:;kt, ltulJet t Sallicl{, tlcrald SeH\o\vitz. ~kfau Stetn, Jatnt:::; Swan, Hichanl HL!::;:ial k llUSI!Ii ESS 8TA IF Joseph· Martorano, Hobert Steln!Jerg, Julian Cjmssma.n, H\rl.>. Uilder, Martin Stein, ClltlTLA'l'IUN STAFF Alan Chesler, Ho!Jert \Vassermall, !Ja vi<l Fin ltd, no bert Liut doLL Now Hea:rr This, '59 The night before the fil~t home football game of the season is one stcep.ed in college tradition. The pajama parade, followed by the pep rdl~· on Daley Field, never fails to be an annual high point in regard to school spirit and morale. All too frequently, ltowe\'er, this tmdition-inspired spirit is nowhere to be found on .-\lexander Field the next afternoon. Another tradi.tion which seems to Le rapidly fading away is the formation of a double line by the freshman cla::;s as an aisle for the football players as they head toward the bench preceding each half. A football game loses something· when it becomes nothing; more than a convenient and acceptable way to spend an uftemoun with a date. The players aren't out there to put on a football exhibition; they're out there to \\in a ball game. A playf'r trirs harder to win when he knows that someone wants him to win. As each player trots between the <!ouule row formecl by his school mates, he knows that they're Lacking· him all the way. Perhaps the best example of this in recent years occurred at last year's liamilton game at Clinton, New York. The Garnet was well represented at Hamilton that Saturday and the entire l'ni0n section poured out on to the field before the game tq form a double line. As the players trotted along the human wall, they realized that the school was solidly behind them. Perhaps we would have won by the same score (39-1-1) if the line hadn't formed, but we're inclined to think that the game would have been closer. The Class of ·~ has already demonstrated its class spirit. Tomorrow it will get its hig chance to show its school spirit. As any coach knows, a slight psychological edge can mean the difference between winning or losing a game. We've suggested a method for helping tb g·ive the team that needed edge. The rest is up to you, '59. How about it? See No Evil The HPC is proving to he a many-armed jelly fish when the time comes to enforce the rushing rules it has set up. No house wants to push for strict enforcement for fear that it might be the next one caught violating the rules. Why should any fraternity hesitate in asking any freshman up for a meal no matter how far in advance when the only punishment possible is cancellation of that meal? What respect can the HPC expect from students, faculty, a11d othel' cati1pus organizations if it cannot govern itself with some authority? The prevalent attitud\e seems to be, \let's all cheat a little so that no house will be hurt.\ The violations this year weren't very l:!erious, but if present disciplinary stand\ ards are adhered to~ the rushing rules won't be worth the paper they are printed on by 1957. E. S. L. For Your Information .. 8 Friday, September 30. Daily as- sembly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tid- marsh, MC, noon; Pajama Parade, 7:30 P. M., followed by bonfire on -Daley Field; Freshman par- ty, Hanna Hall, 11 P. M. Saturday, October 1. Varsity l~ootball, Union vs Amher·st, .Alexander Field, 2 P. M. SWiday, October 2. S.unday ser- vice, preacher, Dr. Norman B. Johnson, Dept. of Religion, Un- ion College, MC, 11 A. M. <2 pts. credit>; Organ recital, Bach program, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. MC, 4 P. M. <2 pts. credit>. Monday, October 3. Bible study group, Hale House lounge. 7-8 P. M.; Sophomore claRs meeting, OC, 8 P. M.; Outing Club, .Jl:E 22, 8 P. M. Tupslla.y, October 4. Daily assem- hly; gpeakl'r, Prof \Vm. Bristol, rccPntly returned from South An.- ericn, MC, noon}. Student Council, Hale House lounge, 7:30 P. M. Coffee hour, sponsored by the Faculty Women's Club. West Coi- IE>ge library, immediately follov.:- ing dinner in West College. All students dining In West College invited. Wt>dnPsday, October 5. Jewish Fella'l>ship, Silliman Hall, noon; Campus Rosary, OC, noon; Chris-. tian Assn. MC. noon; American Institute of Electi'icai Ehgineers <Union d\ollege student chapter, EE-22, 7:30 P. M.; Newman Club meeting, OC, 7:30 P. M, feeling for it.\ Tulips and Chimneys By Edward- Cloos, Jr. ThP Thret•pt>mty Opera When The Threepenny Op.era hr~t Of,.ened in New York on March 10, Hlu4, < titics and audience as one \\ere almost ::;ensationally en- thu:oiastic. There probably has ·been !1Uthing in modern musical theater so unanirr.ously accepted- 1\e've neither heard nor seen in print a dissent. Over a year has passed since Its production and we daresay that no one has for- gotten it. It's been discussed again and again, the recorded ver- sion has ·bt·en played and replayed, and it has exerted considcra·ble influence on nel.\ er productions; it has. in fact, become a part of the life of thousands of people 1\ ho lo>·e music and theater. less people have spent lifetimes a ttentptmg. Not only the opera itself is l'lu.s;;ic th:m,;h. The .perforn ance ur' Lotte Lenya singing the song of Jenny's bitter dreams, Pirate .Jenn~, is almost as great as the Pnti 1 e \ork. When she fi!lished her song at the performance we sa~'>-, the vlildly applauding ·audi- en2e came as close to standing and eheering this remark<tble v.ork of art as any New York audience ·ever bus. \Ve'll admit we VI ere u n:· shamedly overw he lrr ed. Perhaps not classic, but very fine, are thp performanees of the Jeal- ousy DuPt by Lucy and PoHy < Bea- trice Arthur and Jo Sullivan> and the Ba:rhara Song by Lucy. The audience enjoyed considerably When it reopened in the ideally Jane Conn.:oll as Mrs Peachum. mtimate de Lys, its Ol'lgmal New '1 h;,ugh not the ·original Mrs. York address, the ,J,euple 1.\ho had re<Ichum, Miss ·Connell leaves noth- talked of the \\orR for a year and ing to be desirPd-we wonder if a half returned, somewhat unbe· the part has ever been filled better. hevingly to see if it \\ere really When she si·ngs the&allad of De- there and to relive a loved ex- pcndt•ncy, describing what will be perience. Unlike ordinary produc- Machcnth's downfall, women, the tions, .this was fan•iliar to most audh•nce sees a very funny woman. of the audience before it cum.; to Sht> gave a gr\at a.nd charming the theater. There was an air reading of her part. of intense excitement from the Scott Merrill was Macheath in mon.ent people began to congre- Ia.st year's production a.nd returns gate in front of the theater. in his own part. For Americans. it is patterned after the 18th he has created the person of century ballad-operas, and 1.\hile \Mack the Knife,'• and a dashing someY~hat less bawdy, it captures scoundrel he is. Merrill, a dancer, the spirit. The plot line of John moves gracefully about t.he stage Gay's Beggers Opera is followed like a legendary bandit of re .. fairly closely, Bert Brecht, one of inarkable capacity. He makes Mac- the great men of modern theater, heath something on the order of adapted some of Gay's lyrics, Shakespeare's Prince Hal only VI-rotc a good deal of original poe- Muck does not reform. Macheath's try and included poetry by the Death Mes~>a.gc, a call from the Vl'onderful 15th <:entury rogue, grave of the death cell, at New- Francais Villon. Kurt Weill, but gate Prison, is done to perfection for one song, •wrote original mu.sic by Merrill. !Saving Lotte Lenya's for the entire \~>Ork. The farrous peerless Jermy, we think it is the overture is one of the best things finest song in the opera. Weill oi· anyone has do~e during Wiiliam Duell !l;S a begger, Filch, the 35 years of our modern period. who is certainly p-itiful, submits -The Threepenny Opm·a is now· a a very funny performance. He also classic. It is a classic becavse it p·lays the part of the Mounted is real. In its almost reci\I·ess Messenger. When he rides in imaginativenes it manages to make carryi,ng the .happy news of ](Jac- its characters not like real people heaths repneve ton a wooden as so many productions try to do; . h.obby ho:se .and lead by the .street• it makes its characters living indi- Singer) It Is !l truly delightful viduals-more than it makes them moment. pillars of living individuality. This Tige Andrews, new to the part, is the greatest artistic success a offers a Chaplinesque characteriza- 1\ riter can aclrieve. Yet these tion of the streetsinger, lt is a characters, Brecht's artistic sue- good one. cess, are just a part of the Opera's Every song is exciting, original, wondE>r. Everything else is the and cannot be forgotten;, that is music of Kurt Weill. It properly \\by the Threepenny Opera is a captures every streetsinger, every .classic. Every performance \~>as bawdy balladeer. the natural mu- both accurate and inspired. That sic of every artist, actor. and is \'hy we love the Tlweepeuny bandit since Villon. It is the kind Opera; that is why 'Wie shaH nevei• of artisfic ac·comp.Jishment count- forget the performance 1.\e saw. 520 UNION ST. PH .. 4-1288 WGY LAUNDRY Free Pickup For Union College' SHIRTS OUR SPECIALTY COMPLETE LAUNDRY and DRY CLEANING SERVICE Letter to the Editor To the Editor of the Concordiensls: tenc;l to be a :bit off the de~p Whlle you schol&rlY gentlerr.en end, this sc:bool has a long still sparkle in ·a daisy f.resh fash- way to come from its ·doldrums ion at the achrent of this new of d.ungj:l.reedo:m and despair .. term, allow a venerable ·Chap who's Perhajl's, in addition to a moulted a half dozen pair o~ bucks stronger athletic ,program·,. wider around this place to .cast out a geographical representation, and few seeds of thought which have increased schl!lol spirit (this collected in his cobwebbed: cran- undou·btedly wo~Jcl have to come ium. ·fr:om decreased over-an fratern- The foll'ov. ilig. six \seeds of sug- ity spirit). a ·change -in the non- ge.suu.l' are n-,.mlJty .submitted m euphonistic yet elsewhere used smcer.e ho.pe that some day they .s-chool name itself~e:ven so snail gern;unate and aid in tne bet• ·mild a one as \Ol'd: Union\ terruetJ.t·--of a col1ege ·VI hkh tooK \m'ight be the tickei_:zr.ight. 'bE; a .tumble, along ·v. 1th the South, the p:Jace to start. at An>od 1 attox Cour~ House. Summarily then, t do not prof- l. LeL ::; call a spade a spade.. and fer these suggestions as a panacea, remove the absurd aoyss be- but rat)1er as stepping stones tY.ecn \A''s and •·B\s in Ollr which might help olde Union keep top-heavy marking systerr.. .pace w'ith a jetting- ag~. Are you 2. Let's strive to improve the qu·a:l- listening, thou ·Goddess of \isdom? ity of our ·chapel pvograms and \I do not .pro.pose .to ·'V\rite ·an at the sarr.e tjme t:ender this ode to dejection, .but to ·brag as grand old institution option.il lustily . .af> a chanticleer in .the to a.il' seniors; ··tr orning-, standoihg on his most. 3. Let's ma.ke a serious effort to if only to wa·ke my neighbors up!\ recall that our dt\ess and actions Ken R. Briggs '.q6 reflect on the college at a!l Umes. Let's have Union a men's college r-ather than a boys' school. 4. Let's have unlimited cuts for all juniors and seniors <w·ho cer- taJn~y should have developed a sufficient set Gf values in th,eir first tv..o years. This move I'm ·sure would replace much divis- ional embalming flui!i yith ·ad- reiJ.a,Iin. 5. Let's remove blinders long ·enough to realize that the bal- anced college is the product of an unbalanced mind. If we can't draw enough liberal arts ·students to our school, let's abandon a sinking ship a11d change over con::pietely to that ;pint-sized RPI dormitory that we are now approaching. Al- though co-existence is possible, I ,do not deem it a plausible qual-ity. Keen :liberal a.rts stud- ents are naturally shying wway from our G.E. trade school. 6. Let's start a subtle yet steady campaign to build ·Up socially unkno'Wn Union's narr c, an all important consideration in our ·increasingly social conscious ·ag'e. While gvey flannel texts and button-down black boards . ..-. .......... ------------~--- ...... -, FOR CAR TROUBLES SEE A UNION MAN William Ho Plath Auto Service f 1372 Union St. i Schenectady Ph. 6-4895 1 ________ __. ____ • _______ ! Beginning Monday, October 3, the Student Employment Bu- . reau will be open bet.ween the hours of 1 and :3 :P. M. daily, except Saturday., Students may veport during t·he·se hours for assignments, s.tud.ents will be called per- . sonally when the· b.ureau feels it is necessary to· ·complete spe- , cia! assigilments. Bulletins will · be .posted every two .or three · d'ays, concerning jobs available, on the official college bulletin board COld ·Chapel), In West College, Hale House; and wm be. .sen,t to fraternities and dor. · mitories for posting. Studehts · · may call the office (4'2636) con- cerning any posted job in which : they are interested. The reason for IJmiting ·work in this field to two hours daily is that student employment is a · part time service. ll:fforts are being made to find empioyment for every stt!dent who h!ls re- gistered. This cannot be done if a student reports daily to .in- quire about progress. UNION BOYS ARE WELCOME Phil Englebardt's · LIQUOR STORE \The' Be sf in Bottles\ 511 UNION ST. Schenectady, N; Y. Friends of the Schenectady Museum presents INTERNATIONAL FILM SERIES at Schenectady Museum \Paisan- \Chaplain Festival\ \Les Enfants du Paradis\ 11 8lue Angel\ - ''Potemk.in'' \Kind Hearts and Coronets\ 6:30 AND 8:30 P.M. STARTING TONIGHT, ALTERNATE FRIDAYS , SEPTEMBER 30TH SERIES $3.00 Make Checks Payable to Friends of the Schenectady Museum At M. B. Graubart & Sons The Perfect Place for the Perfect Diamohd '! ou are also invited to use our repair service. Utmost tate IS t~ken by OUr. skilled WorkerS to giVe you every r&t~Son to be pleased. . ~, .• $)'1 \JPII~MvA-'ftl · 1.66 JAY ST. ·FRIDA, B; S'aturd ·wm ma1 ion ·can: success f., ball his· of ·1947, teams ( Laughry ord of 1' tie, clim feated c when Scheneci footbali low ebb. most ob ball ceni ed the· • .since 19• .Dons of ence as •Rein's 1 reg.istere and, a 3-: net fielt years of MeL a'\ est rest the sing formatio son, aft< Hal Ens ne:xt 'VI.·e• on to dE ning a s1 and one in MeL! Union. • mont in theh G1 .straight Am0n1 introduc conversi qua.rterli which h• great. \ Unwnan ed firs1r the Coil Herald game ag When head co: in 1950, : a \fine 11 of that the Uni• previous setts to\ fathE\r I .ry, later ected. th Amhe:J four los ion in 1894. Tl schools game '\ ·'23-0, an 1952 wl Laughr~ then, ru perfect chargeS; scores • and 195~ At Rl he fairll edition prove 01 1954 sq losses , seored I afternoc on '86 J that wil ard Lye lHyon w: ing his ing the !ina Pr1 minarli.e1 •rspea.'' l brenner. In re and We -· Finger schoolb( COitChinJ record , IQsses. · ing ass front. l how he with so in~JlUdin The I resulted Lord J, against day, Se1 of the Preside! by adm eel .the at Oolb in the , betweer. ] (C. Gilmore guard, ter. in Ed J:;u:i be at res'pecti Wodarz Di·Cl{ L In th Bing H: Crotty,, gi·ando action.

the de~p a long ·doldrums despair .. to a wider and (this to come i'ratern- the non- used so Union\ ·be not prof- panacea, g stones keep Are you \ isdm;n? ·~\'\rite an ·brag as in the t•oost. up!\ iggs '.q6 October Bu-. the P, M. hours per- . au feels Jete spe- wm .' three · bulletin West will dor- · con- which: ·work daily is a · orts are h!ls re- be done to .in- ARE · E .... u.seum ·FRIDAY, ·sEPTEMBER 30, 1955 ·r:=====:::::::::====~~ ·.Amherst Eleven Shows Autumn Madness By Jerrold Hirsch.!)n s·aturday's clash With Amherst Vdll mark. the return to the Un~ · ion ·campus of one ·of the most successful mentors in Garnet foot-. ball history. During the seasons.· of 1947, 1948 and 1949, Dutchman teams coached by John if. Mc- Laughry compiled an overall rec- ord of 17 wins, six defeatE; and one. tie .climaxed by a :brilliant unde- fe~ted campaign !n 1949. • When M(Jl,aughry !ll'riVed . m' Schenectady in the spring of 1947, · footbali fortunes were at ·Po· new·· low ebb. Mel :Uein, coi1sidered .by ' most observers the .greatest foot-: ; ball centei' of- all time, had resign- · ed the· co~hing post. he oceupied • • since 1943 to join the Los Angeles . •. Dons of the All-Amei'ican Confer• (;nee as assistant coa,cb. Undei' . · 'Hem's ~telage, the Gamet had · registered an 0-5 record in. 1944 and a 3-5 record in 194'6. Union. did . net· field teams during the wa1· years of 1943 and 194:5. .. • • • ..... JY.tcLaughr:y achieved his great- . est results after switching from the single wing to a winged \T\ · formation midway in the :1.947 •sea- son after an injury to star back Hai Enstice in the R'PI game. The ne:xt ~eekend,. t):le Dutchman ~ent on to defeat Williams, 14-0; b~gin• ning a, stretch of 16 wins, tw~ los~es and one tie that included v10tor1es · in McLaughry's last' 13 gaines at Union. Only a 7-6 victory by :Ver• mont In the 1948 opener prevented. theh Garnet from enjoying two .strai'ght unbeaten seasons. Among the many player changes introduced by McLaugluy was the conversion of Ken Whalen from quru:terback to center, a position at · which he became an all-tili:Le Un.ion great. Whalen's development as a. Unrunan was so rapid that he play •. ed fi'rs1rsti'ing defensive gl,i,a1•d :for the College All-Stars· in the 1949. Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund game agailli!t the New York GiantS. Rex Sa\VYer (39) aild Gary Gil\ more (48) '\Vill' sta1t in the Garnet line tomorrow against .lllnherst at ·end and gti:ard, respectively. Both players shQ,ne on defense for Union last Satu.rday at Vermont. Sawyer made H tacldes to lead the Garnet in that department. When McLaughry ;3,ccepted the · head coaching position at Amherst in 1950, he received what he termed a \fine\ offer, a salary in· excess of that earned by any professor on the Union College faculty. He had previously lived in the Massachu- setts town for four years when his. fathE\r DeOrman (Tuss) McLaugh- ry, later coach of Dartmouth, dir- ected. the Lord Jeffs. Amherst holds an edge of 16 wins, four losses and two ties over Un- ion in a rivalry dat~g back to Disclose Plan For Ticket Distribution 1894. The series between the two With the 1955 home football schools was dropped aftei• the 1935 · opener scheduled to take place· game which the Lord Jeffs won against .Amherst tomorrow, Wil- ··zs-0, and was not. resliDled until ford Ketz, Director of Athletics, · 1952 when Amherst · under Me- has issued the followdng statement Laughry triumphed 28-21. • Since concerning the tick!lt situation: then, McLaughry has recorded a ·students wanting game. tickets will pei\fect slate against b,is old find two booths for this purpose chargeS; dow~g the Garnet by w:ithin the Bailey Hall gates, One· scores of 21-0 and 50-14 ·in 1958 will sell student tiCJkets and the and 1954, respectively. · other will aocomii:J.odate the rllilh At RPI they note that \it will for date tickets, still priced at he fairly safe to say that the 1955 $1.00. edition of the EI).gineers vvill im- Th.is year, coupons will be is-· prove on the rec9rd posted by the sued not only for the football game, 1954 squad. No wins and eight but also for basketball games. losses , 85 points scored, 257 points These coupons are to be hapded seored by opponents-\ Tomorrow·· in at the gate in exchange for a afternoon, RPI will meet Hamilton ticket which entitles the holder to on '86 field in Troy in a contest' admittance. FraterniHes may pur- that will mark the debut of Rich- chll$e date tick.ets in a bloc either ard Lyon as Engineer grid coach. Friday afternoon or Saturday· IHyon was an outstanding end dur- morning in order that the usual ing his own .playing career, shar- last minute rush may l)e avoided. ing the spotlight at· North Caro-· The date tickets must Q.e accom- lina Pre-Flight with such grid lu\ panied by student ti<~kets in or- minaries as Otto Graham, Orban der to 'be valid for admission. \SpeG\ Sanders and Fl'ank Ashen~ All plans· for a freslunen· ·blue brenner. have been set asitle since fhe Stud- ~ .recent years, Clyde ·Cen1;ral ent Council has ta:ken no a,ction and Wellsville High, both in the in this matter. In order to· ibe Finger Lakes region, became top fair to all concerned·, \a f'irst come, schoolboy powe1·s under Lyon's first ser:ved\ attitude has been taken by Mr. :Ketz and his stafl' .. Sections E and D have been set aside .to accotnmo.(lli:te the large· turnout which is expected. As in the past, the Student Ta:x Corhmittee !Will run the concession stand on t):le roadway in fro~t of the Alumni Gym. Game tin:e. is slated for 2 P. M. All fraternities are requested to submit type'W'ritteii lists of ·, their ne'w pledges to the · UOn.iiOrilieHkis office by 9 P. M •. Tuesday, October 4. These lists should 'be double spaced. with speqial care given to. the spelling of namj!S. coaching. His high sChool coaching record i,ncludes 35 wins and nine losses. RPI Will be his first coach-· ing assignment on the collegiate front. It will be interesting to see how he utilizes a squad toP:,..heavy !\ith ~ophomQre§l and jtuiio;s, ·and m~Jluding only 10 lettermen. ,~-------~-~~--·---~--~-------------------~ I Drop in for your . ~~ The polio outbreak at Amherst resujted in the cancellation of the Lord Jeffs home football opener against Colby College last Satur~ · day, Septemper 24. W'hen informed of the polio situation by Amherst President >Cl::\arles W. Cole, the Col- by admin:istration depided to can- cel .the contest. A. ~;;imilar outbreak at Colby three years ago resulted in the cancellation of the meeting between the two S!lhools, Football Opene1· ! Union College Courtesy Card ·I· 1 which entiHes you to~ special College prices at ' I 1. 1 DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1 637 Nott Street 1 1 •'Just around the corner fronf Green Gate'' Union College courtesy car.ds are available to I all students, faculty members, and their f~milies. I ~----------------~---------------~-·-----------~~. --~· -----~-~-···--g-·----------~---,~· ~---·--\---~--~~ r·· .. ····· -- .. --.-. (Continued from Page 1) Gilmore and Gerry Larmo1ll' a;t · guard, and Tony Cocozzo at ()en- ter. in the 'backfield, sophomoves Ed Janulion:is and Don Root wdll GAZETTE be at .quarterba:ck and· !halfback respectively, McDermott or George Wodarzak at the other half, and Di·Cl{ Lounsbucy at fullback. Crotty,, Roger Olson, and Tex Zan- . gi·ando will be seeing !)Onslderable · · PRINTERS In the :face of A:t:r.rherst\s depth,l Bing Huntington, Gerry Faeth, Ed · · action. \. ..... --. \''\\\·-·-·-•-·-·-···--·-· ..... - ..... ,.. .. -.... _...._ __ • • • • • • • • • • • • • in their first home game. The boosters are planning to have buses chartered for the RPI game o·n October 15, arid plans are also ·being made for the transpor~ tation of ·students to the Williams game. Campus favori.tes - •• from every angle. No guesswork here, Arrow's new button-down shirt cops the style lead on campus with its soft roll collar, full- length back pleat, back-collar button~details you'd expect from custom shirtmakers! Now available in authentic plaids and tattersall checks, $6.95 up• Combine it with Ai'row's tapered slacks in chino, $5.9 5 -for the new casual look. CASUAL WEAR -first in fashion ...... Ciccolella Preps Freshman Team 3 The freshmen football squad, ..,. ith the football season already in full swin,g. is trying to make up for late start by energetic prac- tice. To further this end, frosh .football coach, Dick Ciccolella, has been holding intensive practice for the past two weeks with a squad corr.posed of about 32 men. At the present time, Ciccolella has just started to hold scrim- mages. He said that, for the time being, he V\ould emphasize funda- mentals such as blocking, tackling, stance, ball handling, and general conditioning. He added that muoh time would be spent .on basic split- T plays. The ne>w coach explained that this grounding in the basic essen- tials was necessary as several• of the boys did not play football in high school and quite a few others played under different systems and are, tl)erefore, unfamiliar with the split-T foriDation as played at Un- ion. The first game is not scheduled until October 22, when the frosh travel to Morrisville. Ciccolella probably will not have a first team picked until about a week beforE! game time. .. ,

4 FfUDAY, SEPTEMB!:R 30, 1955 Tidmarsh\ Opens · Fulbright Grants Announced Recital Se:ries November 1, 1~55, is the. closing •and the Department of State to Campus Roundup WRUC Releases I I · · 'date of the competitions for United :screen ap.pllcations for study The student bral!:lcb of the Am- The Independent Council has an- WRUC, the campus radio sta- Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Director States Government educational abroad. Under the Buenos Aires Program Listing erican Institute ·of I:i!ledrical En- nounced Saturday, October 8, as tion, has announced a new pro- of Music a.t Union College since: exchange grants for graduate Convention, the Institute makes gineers v.ill hold its first n.eeting ·the date of its first party of the ·granming schedule, Featuring pop- 1925, ·wm open his 31st series study abroad. One month remains the preliminary recommendations of the year in R.o~m 22 of the semester. It will •be held in Hanna ular shows like the \spotlight\ of public recitals thi.s Sunday after- in which to app(y for awards un- 'of candidates, w'ith the cooperat- .!Glectrical Engineerjng building Hall from 8 to 12 P. M. with free • series, the station is starting a noon at 4 P. M. w:th an all-:!:Jach :der the Fulbright and Buenos ';ing countries rbakirig the fina:l se- Wednesday, Oc:tober ~. at 7:30 beer and dancing. drive to attain 100 percent listen- :program in Memorial C'hapel. .:Aires Convention Programs fat• the :·lection of candidates for study P. M. New memlJer-s are invited Any independent at Union is: ership on. the ca:mpus. Also to be • Dr. Tidmarsh's rendition of :1956-57 academic year. ·'within their borders. to jom at this tim\' all pi·t'lsent. \elcome to come, and It is hoped. inaugurated this year is a new Bach's worl{s have <>arned wide- S . h' . r . bl 1 · Awards under the Fulbright Act members are urged \1> attend as that a large number will attend. series of FM programs, Symphony spr.ead acclaim, and his aU-Bach · chola;t's !p app wabon. an {S :are made entirely in the currencies there are several important items Freshmen who do not pledge a Hall. hea!·d every evening from 9 program, repeated again this faJl ·?'re ava:lable at .the ~nsbtu~e, Q.t; of partici·pating countries a:broad. of business. fraternity are especially urged to to 10 P. M. The schedule is as on public demand, has become one Its Regional Offlces m ChiCago,· This Act authorizes .the use of get to know their fellow independ-· follows: of the annua;l highlights for area. Denve;l', Houston, Los. Angeles, San ·:foreign currencies and ·credits ac- T'he featured' speak.er at the ents. music lovets. , :Franci~co and W3;shmgton: or In :quired through the sale of surplus meeting will be 1'r.r. Richard Fair- For those ·who desire dates for 12:30 P. M.-(Sundays> Sign-on Featured as the rr·ajor work on :the offtces ·of Fu~br1g~t Adv1s~rs on :property a;broad for educational ley, who is Depart~nent M·anager the party, there are sign-up lists 12:30 P. M. to 12:00 Midnight Sun- Sunday's recital will be the brill- :college and um~e~s1ty campuses. e:x:changes. The aJWards cover , of Genera.! E.Iectric's General En- posted in all dormitories as well as days, Recorded Music · !ant Passacaglia and Fugue in ? :~ bJochure. ~escnbmg ~he o~r~ea~ 'transportation, e~penses of a lan- gineering Laboratury in Schenec- in the library. Saturday, October 1,· 4:50 P. M.-<Monday-Saturday)~. Minor, one of the. ?'.reat masters s u y 8.1War ~ may e o ame .. guage refresher or orientation tady. Mr. Faii'ley, formerly a is the deadline for signatures. A:ny-. Sign on t>est-known. composlliOns. The Pas- .from the Institute. ,course abroad tui:tion books and r:nernber of the .Al.EE District One o lia d' to D Tid ' ' ' · one VI ho .fails to sign up in time, 4:50 P. M.-College Songs sa ag ' accor mg · . r. . -,. Opp~rtuni1;ies to Study , :maintenance for one academic Committee on Student Activities, n· rsh as a;n old dance m triple · but wishes a date. should -call 5 00 M w h a • \ · · · , Th o rams under the F·ul~ yeal'. is p!'esently scrvirig as Chairman : P. .- hat, W ere and rythm v.hich Bach worked in· with· . e .Pl' g . . . · of the Schenectady Section AlEE. ~obert Stute at 6-9814 as soon as When-Variety his own theme to produce a double bright \?-ct and the Buenos Atres:. Awards Include Tuition His topic will be ,Opportunities Un- possible. Dance rr.usic will be pro- 5:3() P. M.-News in Brief- f · :ConventiOn for the PromotiOn .of •' Av.ard·s under the Buenos Aires limi~d, an outlook on future con- vided by tape recorded tunes. <M.W.F.S.S.l ugue. -·--- ':Inter-American Cultural Relations. Convention Include transportation dl .ti·ons 1·n electJ·t· cal en2ineering. · T * * * 5 p M T d d Th · are part of the international edl\- · provided by the United States Gov- .. ·he Freshman Councii is span,- :3() . .-( ues ay art urs- t' · f th an ·d the Jmport·ant position held by , G · F'l · cationaJ exchange· ac IVitJes o· e .:ernment, and tuition and mainte- soring a party tonight, September day> Garnet leanmgs A S'l. t b[ f st t Th 'll · the engineerin~ societies in effect- 30. in Hanna Hall after the football 6 0 D ft0T- · a · . e Depal·tmeht 0 a e. ey v-.· 1 · nance allovvances provided by the . th' f t : 5 P. M.- inner ' give ,ahr•ost 1000 American citi- host governrrents. 1ng IS u UTe. rally. The Freshman Band, which 6:30 P. M.-Garnet Gleanings-· \Continued from Page 1) zens the chance to study abroad. Preliminary selection for other At the mef'ting regula1· dues for was enthusiastically r.eceived at (Tuesday and Thursday) · d i the 1956 57 ac d m· year · · th hI t . '11 h 11 t Talent N1'o-ht 1'n or1'entat 1 'on week, leges Vlere for. The higher eche- ~~.r ng .\.. a e IC ·,:Fu. !bright .aV\ard·s, those for teach- e sc o as 1c year v:1 . e co er -. ,., T d' p ~1:10 the establishment of these d R f h d will provide the musical entertain- 7:00 P. M.-- ra JOg · ost 'Ions slept on. The day faded and , ~ · e . · . · · mg, lecturmg or advanced research e. e res ment.s '\\'ill b· servE> . ment. 7:05 P.M.-Union's Choice the stars came out. The little man,'Pr.ograms 111 1941, over 4,600 ~m-· abroad, are made by the United folio~ ing the me•~t.ing. Tickets have been sold this week 8:00 P. M.-Starlight Concert read on. Soon Mter the dawn ;en~ an students have received .States Office of Education and * ·X· '* by the floor rep1·esentatives of each 'brolre, the little old man stopped .. gran_ts. r.o.r study.. . . :·the Conference Board of .,A.ssoci- 9 :00 P. M.-Symphony Hall El b 1 t t f tt t d R h C llormitory. and a large turnout is lO:OO P. M.-Spotlight-Pops reading. He neatly piled his pa< _Igi I I Y reqmreme~ s .or ~ese a e esearc . ouncils. •'xpected. Admission is just one l0: 35 P. M.--Spotlight-Variety pers. He, carefully placed them irr foreign study fell~'l'lship~ are: <1> dollar. which entitles you to all you 1l:OO :i?. M.-Spotlight-Dream his briefcase. And he ~lowly and LJIUted .States Cit~zep.shi~; (~) A c1m eat and drink. DatPs will be 12 :00 P. M.-Yesterday-News resolutely left. college degree or tts. equivalent at admitted for an extra fifty cents. 12 1 M s· ff The higher echelons breathed a •the t11re the a\\ard IS to ·be taken ~~STUDENTS'' The Mountebanlis \\·ill 'hold th<• first in its series of Theat<'r Artti' Lectures at Hanna. H:aH \Vednesde~.y evening-, Octuher 5, at 7.30. Stu- dents and facultY' members inter- ested in learning nLout theater op- erations are invited io attend. The program will include coffee and doughnuts followed by a staff meet- ing. * * * ~~e!· will 1 ;: ~ • five minute sigh of relief. They resumed their up; (3) Knowledge ~f .the Ianguag·e Joel Plattner. the r.hesterfif'ld seats and reconvened the meeting ... .of the country suffiCient to carry 1. k\ f G d 11..1 • .. representative at Uni'on. has an- news round-up every hour on the They carefully considered the two :on the proposed study; (.4) Age 35 00 mg .or a 00 · nCillrC:UT Dr. Gifford Wingate, faculty ad- visor to the thespiar>~. v.·il! deliver the first lecture entitled Problems In Direction. In a:nnouncing the lectures, Dr. Wil'l!.ga.te ernp.hasized that while all a1·e welcome. the principle purpose of the Theater Al\ts Program is t<J provide not only lectures but alse> discussions an-d demonstrations for the benefit of lower classme:n who aspire to key positions on the Mountebanks staff. nounced plans for a contest to be half-hour except during Symphony cases. They examined the evidence .. years or under; (.5) Gooc! health. Hall. held in conjunction with Home- They discussed what snia:H bal-, Final selection of Fulbright gran- coming Weekend, October 8. All . lanced colleges were for. And, they tees is made :by the Board .of students wishing to enter must The Outing Club will hold its reached a decision. ,Foreign Scholarships appointed by place their guess as to the final first· meeting of the semester They decided to compromise. The: the President of the United States. score of the Rochester-Union foot- Monday evening, October 3 at experts for the new improved The Institute of International Edu- baJl game on a used Chesterfield 7:30 in EEl 22. The aims and gymnasium would get .a field house.' :cation, a private agency which ad- or L&M wrapper, along with their purposes of the club will be And the expert for the new im- · ministers the program for the ex- name and address. These entries discussed and slides of past proved library would get an at- .-change of students, teachers, and must be brought to Plattner, at trips shown. tractive, built to scale, model. •SPe·tialists has been designated by , 7 N. S. S. C., by 6 P. M. Friday. N. H.R., the Board of Foreign Scholarships October 7. The winners will re- ceive five packs of king sized Chesterfield cigarettes. YOUR BIG RED LETTER DAY Then try the SUPERIOR BARBER SHOP Located a half block from the Nott Street Gate toward The Field House At the bi-mon thi.y session in- struction will be- given. in such useful theater crafts as stage light- ing, make-up, acting nnd set con- stl\uction. All letters to the editor of the c~ucordiensis mul't be submitted by 9 P. M. Wednesday night if publication is desired in thE' issue of the same week. fMt:Vuttt~ ~to L. G. BAlFOUR DO. Frcrternit.y Jewelers BADGES- RIN:'GB- FAVORS JEWELBY LEATH.EE (}IFJ:'S STATIONERY - FlWOR.AMS CLUB PIN~- KEYS MEDALS • 'TR.O:PHIES Write or Ca.ll CARL S()RENSEN W Murray Ave., \il'~t.tcrfurd. N.Y. PHONE TROY-A.DAMS 8-2523 Serving Union's Men For Years See your agent on Campus UNITED CLEANERS Phone 4-5676 114 State St. near Ferry ''Mc·ry Lou, next time tell you.r you11g rncn to use the telephone!'' you can use all sorts of gimmicks to keep in touch -wi'th your dolly- carrier pigeons, smoke signals, guided skyrockets, two tin cans with a long string between them. However, if you want to mal<e sure she gets your message, do your cooing on the telephone! And Long Distance doPsn't wallop your wallPt, Pither. You get Bar- gain R.ates nights after 6 and any time Sundays. So bef-ore she starts longing for some close-by clown, mil her Long Distance and bring her near ... hear? New York Telephone Co. 1. SUPERIOR FILTER Only L&M gives you the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the P.Urest tip that ever touched your lips. It's white •.. !!! white ... P.ure white! KING SIZE + ., JDM FILTERS 2. SUPERIOR TASTE L&M's superior taste comes from superior tobaccos - especially selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are richer, tastier ... and !!g!u and m.ili!· A Vol. 85; to 500~ For MoTe the festi, Sunday, ( Saturday con test .ag~ ;Rochester I p:vogram. l and tied fc 50th meeti1 back to 18E Cheerlead will supply ment by pa i1y hinchec Meto.orial :E There will uled speak! but only Ma,ny alum oppo'rtunity pleted field Semet·a.. The Alu: ·Committee, Council, wi elected pre Mr. Semera in 1935, all fessor at Tonight tee, meetir son's office ion of thE addition, chosen to trustee to I The full ing of a d• a.nd memb vene in morning a Saturday' climaxed b parties in rep'lace the Ill er ly h el!i The Rev comer, Dir cation at ,C speak at t: vice in ME end Newc 1951, is thE to preside chapel pro Freed Tich Professo1 chairman lecture se1 nounced tl: 50 season .Schenectad 56, to be ' students b the 1i'brar) serve basi< There a: year's ser' be -distribl rat'llY'. Stu tures and will recei:v Mrs The firs :program \i Douglas, fc lal.'ge from the IWife Paul Doug Douglas s gress, 1941 woman niE e!gn Relat A gradu ·Chicago, C served as negie End1 Mrs. Dou~ pear at t: SChool au' day, Octo1 Other s; this year•: Tsuchiya, in New 'Y ator Willi1 ofornia, Ja Richard 1' 'SO'metime Al~stair 0 of Omnih spondent c ian, Marcl The U Sigma X meeting Thursda: in Roor Building port of . ology Wi ·Water t to GI'Ow1 All inb vited to

