30 is be to tY Hell Week: A Sober View Page 2 VOL. 87, 1 No. 13 • Fouruled at Union CoUege in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY 14, 1958 • Comment On Mullane Resignation !tage 3 PRICE TEN CENTS Trustees Announce $100 Tuition Rise; Effective Fall By Robert Kent I no further incre~ses in tuition rtempt to catch up on the dsirig Ceiling scales have also been herst. Our sc:cale is still below A $100 rise in tuition beginning • fo_r students now in Union, bar-· cost of living. It is questionable inc~eased, with a $4,0QO boost for colleges such as Harvard, which in the fall of 19'58 has been passed 1 ririg a nati<mal financial catas- whether the actual raises which full professors. The new scales pays up to $20,000 to full profes· by the Board of Trustees during trophe.\ No simUa:r •pledge has many of the members of the Un- in effect are: $4,500-$5,500 for In- sors. Individual increases result- its annual winter meeting in New: been made to anyone affected by ion faculty will receive during structors; $5,000-$6,500 for Assist- ing from the ii'ew scale have not Yor).t. City. The increase will af- 'the latest increase. Also approv- the following months will amount ant Professors; $6,000-$7,500 for yet been determined. tuition increases recently, Dr. Davidson )}Ointed out that only one planned to increase .its tui- tion less than Union. Tuition In- creases by other colleges ran as high as $300 and a.veraged about $225. With increases, the tuitions at these colleges 'vill be as high as $1,25() and average $1,160. feet this year's freshman and so- 'ed by the Trustees is a $50 rise to more than a hare cost of liv- Associate Prefessors; .and $7,000-~ Tuition Kept; Low phomore classes as wen as the in dormitory rents which will -i:ng adjustment.'• $14;00{) for Full Professors. Dr. Davidson ex:plained that the incoming freshman. Tuition Will bring the total to $300 annually. Minilmum Pay Raised \The new ceilings demonstrate. tuition increase ·has been kept to be '$1,000 for liberal arts studtmts This incre<tse will pertain to- all The new scale raises the mini- Union's desire to provide a salary 1 a minimum due to the record in- and $1,100 for engineers. ' classes at Union next fall. mum .for all faculty positions ·incentive which -will attract and come expected from the college's It should also be pointed out that only about half the stud-ents pay full tui tio.n. The remaining 50 percent receive financial as- sistance through scholarships, g'l'ants and jobs. Such assistance ranges from nominal amounts to full tuition payments. The members of the class of . fneome 1b Go f~tr .Salaries $1;000 above the 1953 scale. How- hold able teachers in the field $21;000,000 endowment, plus gUts '59 were not included in thiS· in- The added income will be used ever, since no faculty members of higlier education,\ Dr. David· ant-icipated from the Alumni Fund crease becau,se of a letter sent by ·the college :to increase faculty 1 ate currently receiving the mini- son explained. The new salary and the Empi-re State Founda- to them lly President Davidson salaries. Dr. Davidson termed mum sa:laries of .the old scale, the scale also brings Union in line tion. at the time of their admission· the first major adjustment in sal- 1 1 average increases will be less than I with those of other similar t:ol- Citing fifteen non-tax supported which stated that, \there shall be aries in five years \a belated at- $1,000, the President emphasized.· leges such as Williams and Am· I colleges which. had announced -- . - . - - . ~ ~ Murphy Will Play At Six Juniors Cut Program AnnualFouriders Day Mardi Gras V Dan.ce·AssumeNew Now in Use Exercises Scheduled Boa -rd Posts Proposal No. 441, advocating Union's fifth Mardi Gras Will be ushered in·on Friday: . . : unlimited cuts for Juniors and F.ardinand Rudolph Hassler, a member of Union's evening, February 21, by a Masquerade Ball in Alumni Seniors in good academic stand- Gy· mnasium. The Ba:ll lastin!!' from 9 P. M. to 1 A. M. will Six juniors will assume new edi- ing\ h.as gone into eff~t for this .. faculty from 1809 to 1811 and first Superintendent of the - . torial positions on the Conc~trdi- semester. The bill was passed by • d C S '11 b h d t th t d\ feature the band of Francis,• ensis next week. The students the Faculty >Council on January Umte States· oast urvey, Wl e ono:re a e ra l- Murphy. The twelve piece. u· • St ff ··promoted are Robert Kent, Mar- 14; at its regular afternoon meet- • tional Founders Day exer- group has entertained at. : lliOn.. . a . ,decai Braunstein, Stefan Stein, ing. eises on Tuesday, February such functions as Albany's · M ~~~~r:w;~~;!~~~eth Hasson and T4e proposal, initiated on De- 25. Dr. Laurence McKinley f d T r B 11 G . ov· es Noted· cember 3, was amended from its. Gould, President of Carleton arne • U lp a ' a ' re~n . . . · · · ' . Kent and Braunstein, the new original wording in only one way. Mountam Prom and a W1l- managing editOTs, will fill a posi- Instead of reading \Juniors and College and Directo1· of the Iiam's weekend. The band, Eleven promotions, the ap-_ tion which has been vacant for Seniors will be allowed unlimited .. United States Antarctic Pro- point~ent of a new Bailey Pro- -. d h t \J · d led by Murnhy's bla.zing . . • some time. Both Social Stud1es cuts\ it state t a .umors an QTam for the International trumpet' als . 0 p~lays d.l.X·l'eland ~~ssor otf fMathPehma~lcs, thfe re-: majors have been associated with Seniors ma,y be allowed unlimited. ~ u~remen ° a yslcs .pro essor,, the newspaper since their fresh- cuts\. Thus each Department is Geographical Year, will be jazz. a?d the appointment of an As-· man year. given more freedom in deciding principal speaker. Selection . 1 - Slstant Professor are among the his own policy. of Hassle1· as th1's year's At the Masquerade, prizes Wll faculty changes which are taking Pveviously, Kent was assistant be awarded for the best costumed place this semester. news editor and is now news edi- The b.ill was worded in such a honoree is of special signifi- couple and the top fraternity Two faculty members have been tor. President of the Lambda way that it will automatically ex- cance because of the role be- ,booth. Also, a. snow • sculpture appointed to the position of As· Iota Social Club, he also has par- pire in one year. To make it - 1 d b th U S contest will be held, weather per-. sistant Professor, five to Associ- ticilpated in the International Re- again effective the Council will Ing P aye Y e • • mitting. ate Professor, and four to Pro- lations Club and written for the. have to pass a new bill. Coast and Geodetic Survey Play ltPI fessor. Wayne K. Nowack and Idol. in the current International The Faculty seems wiiJing to Satut'day afternoon will be HenryFergu.son,became Assistant Braunstein was formerly assist- 1 t p f Geophysical Year. highlighted by a basketball game Professors; Dr. Henry M. Butzel, ant spOT.ts editor and is now try the proposa ou · roi essor ·+ Niemeyer, Chairman of D vision against Union's traditional rival, Dr. Raymond Eisenstadt, Dr. Jos-· sports editor. A member of Kap- I, said that at a meeting of the RPI. Moreover, there will be a eph ·Finkelstein, Dr. William B. pa Nu F-raternity, he belongs to. men in his department, it was de- swimming meet in Alumni Gym, Martin, Jr., and Dr. Sven R. Pet- the recorder group and the ex- cided to let each Professor deter- the same afternoon. erson attained the position of · ecutive board of the concert en- mine his policy. For his own Educated in Europe, Hassler came to this country in 1805. Through his compatriot Albert Gallatin, -then Se-cretary of the 'Trea.sury, Hassler was granted an interview with President Jeffer- son in which be set forth his pro- posal for a coastai survey. The :failure of the government to act upon his plans was the first in a long sl\,des of frustrating epi- sodes. In the gymnasium from 8-11 Associate Professor, Dr. Hans semble. classes; Dr. NeiQleyer is following P. M. a jazz concert will be given, Hainebach, Dr. Filadelfo Panli- New associate editor, Stein, will the ruling, except that he will not featuring the Fabulous Five. The lio, Dr. Jermain D. Porter, and be responsiQle for most of the pet'n;lit cutting examinations and music will range from modern to Clinton E. Williams have peen news~gathering. Originally a reserves the right to decide when dixieland ja.Zz. appointed Professors of' German headlines writel', he was appoint- a student is overcut. · Thll Mardi Gras is sponsored by· and French, Mechanical Engi- ed rp.ake-up editor last year. He Division II also is allowing each the Sophomore class. All profits neering, !Chemistry, and Engi- is also vice president of the Pre- Professor to determine his ac- .11 . t th 8 h Cl neering Drawing, respectively. medical -society. WI go m o e op omore ass Dr. Orin J. Farrell, Professor' tions. Nearly all of them a.re go- Treasury in anticipation of their of Mathematics at Union College, Swan, contributing editor, has ing along with the bill as passed. Junior Prom. Combination tickets has ibeen named to succeed Dr. been active as features editor. He Professor Harold E. Way, ;;Lre now on sale at $2.50 per David S. Morse as Marie Louise is associate editor of the Ido0l. Chairman of Division III, stated couple. They may be purchased Bailey ProfesSDr of Mathematics Copy edito.r Hasson will be 1pro· that each Department will issue a from representatives in the fra- at tile College upon the latter's rooted to the ·Senior Board. A printed set of regulations on ternities and the donnatorles; The retirement . this June. Dr. Au- geology major, he is a member Tuesday. The Physics Depart- members of the Prom Committee gustus Fox replaces Dr. Morse of Sigma Chi Fraternity~ ment, his own, has already done are Steve Al-bert, Anthony Cesta, as head of the Mathematics De- this; It will allow unlimited cuts .Paul Cohen, Bix 'MciMillian, .Ohlp partment. New t'Circulation Manager except for .tests. Nassor, Art O'Loughlln, Lew ·Professor Cec1'1 W. By-s, As- R k th · · t' - v• ussac , · e new campus c1r- Division IV will have a mee mg Roht, and Jlld Ruth. sociate Professor Emeritus of culation manager will be res·pon- to decide on their policy this AlumnusAccepts FacultyPosition Physics at Union College, has ac- sible for the local distributio-n of afternoon, according to a state- cepted an aJppointment as head Concordiensis. A member of Phi ment by Professor Lowen, Chair- of the Physics Department at Sigma Delta, he is in the third. man. They will also issue a .print- Hillsdale College, in Hillsdale, year of a five year electrical en- ed statement next week. · Michigan. Robert D. Slantz has gineering program. ·been named an Assistant Pro· A. small number of r6porting fessor of Physics at T,Tnion Col~ positions are still open. Appli- lege. He was formerly an engle cants should appear at the Con- p,e~;Jr ~t the General ?lectrie Co-rn- cordiensis office in Washburn pany. Hall-on Monday night at 8 P.M. ------ Dr. Lewis Writes Engineering Text A.lumnus Douglas A. Budden- hagen, currently an engineer with the Hughes ~iroraft Company of Culver >City, California, will re· tt1rn to U!lion in September as an A~sistant Professor of Electrical Engineering. \Mr. Budde!lhagen, a native of Kingston, N. Y., was one ()f the Bronner to Scotland A new text-book, Basic Electric f-ircuit Theory, by Dr. Walter _ W. Lewis, was pu,blished in Janu- . ary by The Rol::\ald P1:'ess Co., top honor men in the Class of '56, Frederick Bronner, Professor of •.St. Andrews, will spend the year New York. The author is Pro- fessor Emeritus of Electrical En- gin~ering; Clarence F. Goodheart, Professor and Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engi- neering, assisted Dr. Lewis in his work. graduating from the College with History and Secretary of Union at Union in exchange. a oachelor's degree in Electrical . College, bas been n~ed Ex- Bronner, who. graduated from Engineering. An 3;lumnus of change Professo.r of. H1~tory at Union in 1~23, completed his stud- Kingston :High School, he bel~ St. ·Andrews Umv.ers1ty, m Sco_t- ies at Harvard University. He College scholarships for three land, for the ~958-1959 schoo~ ye~r. has been on the Union faculty years and was the winner of a Mr. Geoffrey Seed, lecturer m h!S- since 1923. He will most or<>bably General Electric ·com p a_n y tory at St. S.alvator's College, in teach American History at St. An- achievement award as an out- drews. · stand.ing junior. He ·served as a Though born in Canada, Seed laboratory instructor during his was .trained in 1Jlnglartd at Dune~ senior Y.ear at Union and in the lin College. He was awarded a spring of 1956 wa.S elected to asso- • ·Commonwealth Fellowship and an ciate membership in Sigma Xi, English government grant similar national scienee honor society. to the Rhodes Scholarship off'ered :Has. Continued Studies in America. He studied at the The book gives a complete one- year course in electric circuits at the junior level. Special care has been taken in presenting the sub- jects of instantaneous :power, ser- ies and parallel .resonance, loci, coupling and mutual inductance, and the solution of polyphase cir- cuits. ' Since his graduation :from . University <>f ·Michigan for two Union, :Mr. Buddenhagen has been · years under this- gr!lont. Seed, who· Networks of all kinds are thor- Ferdinand R. Hassler will be honored .a1; the Founders Day program, February 25. Hassler taught at 'union in the early years of the 19th. centwy. He later becaille supe1intendent of -the United States Coast Survey. Lilly Awards CRP $110,000 Two new fi·nancial grants total- ling $110,000 have just been re- ceived from the Lilly Endowment of Indianapolis and will be used to continue the work of the na- tionally-known Character Re- search Project throug,ll the 1958-59 academic year. Receipt of the g:ifts was announced today by pr. Ernest .M. Ligon, C,R.P. director. The sec0ond disappointment was not long in coming. Appointed as ·Professor of Mathematics and Natural .PhilosGphy at the United States Military A.cademy in 1807, he was relieved from his position two years la.ter when the Secre- tary of War ruled that a civilian could not se!\Ve on .the West Point faculty. Hassler then accepted a similar appo-intment at Union. When the government decided to implement Hassler's plans for a coast survey in 1811, he was sent to England to obtain the necessary instruments. Fate again intervened, for just as he arrived in that country the War of 1812 broke out a.nd he was unable to return until 18-15. The U. S_ Coast Survey, with Hassler lUI its first Superintend- (Continued on Page 4) ---o--- Professor Allen Edits New Book The laFgest of the new grants, $100,000, w:ill be used to carry on the Project's basic research in re- ligious and .character education,· while a supplemental grant of $10,000 will finance the establish- ment of a new field service pro- gram. \The. latter,\ Dr. Ligon said, \may very well prove to be one of the rnost slgnficant gifts Dr. Neal W. Allen, Jr., Asso- ·ever received by the Project. The ciate Professor of History, has new field service, through the edited a new volume of Maine media of area workshops and in- Province and Court . Reeords, tensive short-term training pro- which is currently being publish- grams in researeh me.thods, will · ed by tbe Anthoensen Press of enable us to make the findings -Portland f~tr the Maine Historical and Jllethods of C.R.P. available Society. on .a much wider basis. In short. F th · h 1 1 1 our _ 1n a c rono og ca ser- it will he a. major step forward ies, the 427-page volume deals in the application of theory to with the court records of York actual pra,ctice.\· county, Maine, .from November .of 1692 to January of 1711, during working part-time at the Hughes specializes in the colonial period, oughly covered, Q.Ild sym~etrical Aircraft plant in Culver and ' will teach American History. Seed components are treated in con- simultaneuosly . continuing his and his American born wife will. nection with short-circuits. There Glee Ouh Concert which peri.od the County was. a province of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. The collection in· cludes background material as well as court records on hundreds of civil and criminal cases rang- ing from a squabble over a lost pair of rnittens to the more seri- ous felonies and misdemeanors. education at ·the University of. live in the Bronnertl' home. is a unique chapter on the solu- The Unl()n College Glee Club Southern ·California UI1der a The Union,St. Andrew's Ex- tion of transients -by Laplace in conjunction :with the Women's Highes fellowship. :He Wal> award• · cnange program was initiated in transforms, and another on hy· Glee ClUb of New Paltz State ed his M.S. degree in ·lillectrical 1951 when Mr. John B. Henderson perbolic· and exponential func· Teacner's College will present a Engineering earlier this month. of the Department of Economics tions. non-religio\I:s concert in Memorial at St. Andrew's visited Union. In ,---------=~-----.·1 'Chapel on Sunday, February 23, 1953, •Carl Neim€!yer, Pro-fessor of Two freshmen are needed at 4 P.M. The two glee Clubs will English, spent a year in Scotland. · to manage the varsity swiin- perforrn again that eveni-ng in This year, Union's Leonard B. ming team. All interested can- place of a .speaker at the Vesper Clark is Visiting Professor of Bi- dida.tet: are requested to cGn- • services at 7:30 P.M: One point ology- in St. Andrew's while David tact swimming coach Gerry chapel credit will be given for the Fraternities aa;e kimUy re- quested w bave their date Us~ for tlle Winter Prom into the tCONCORDIENSIS . ofti~e by • Monday, February 1!1, at 7:30 :F;:M. R. R. Burt holds the same posi- ·Waldman. -afternoon performance and two tion at Union, for the evening Vesper service. Many of the cases, Professor Allen poil1ted out, reflect elearly the soclal, economic and political atmosphere of the era concerned, a period of vicious Indian war- fare with York County the north- eastern frontier of the fighting. I I ) • I I \ I I I \ l I' \: I I '

2 OJnurnr .Pul>llalled Fridays dul'l.ng the school year by the Student Body or Unlop College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Rep- resentative: National Ad- vertising Service, Inc., ·college Publishers Repre- sentatt.ve, 420 Madison Ave., N. Y, C. Editorial Oftlce,Wa.ehburn Hall, Union College, Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette J:'ress, 334, State St. Entered m the S<lhenec- tady Pol:lt Of!lce as Sec- ond Class Mail .!.latter, subscriptiOn lOc a cop:r; $2 a year delivered any- where in the U nlted States. S.ENIOlt BOARD DA::--;IEI, S. PAPF.R);!K '5S ........ DI 6-99;•9 ........... I<.:ditor-in~,0\lief IWBEHT J. KE:--:T '5:1 ............. Ill 6-t;~s:> .............. ls'!ue ~d~tor ::\IOI\lli·i~Al 1:. Bl\Al':\'STI·:I:..; ·;:•.FH 4-03'3 ......... :\lmmgmg r.ditor .!.\1ICHAEL J. E:>:.zER '5~ .......... l•'H 7-4713 ........ Busmes:; Mana.ger S'l'El•'A:..; I' STEI':X '5~ ............. I·: X 3·U:>83 .......... Associate Editor JA:\IES E inVAJ\' '59 ............... Dl 6.68~9 ....... Contributing Etl!tor KI::::--;NETH 0. HA:S::;o::--; '50 ........ r'H 4-1855 .............. Copy Editor JlJNIOit BOARD Lynn Ratner '60 ..••.....•.........••......... Assistant :J:eatur~s :Nfg!~or Paul Wollman '60 .......................... · .... · .. ·.. searc Edltor Joel Kupersmlt,h ·so .............•. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Assiat~;u~m~: Edltg~ Richard Sobol 58 . - .. · · · · · · • · · • · · • · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · • · • A t Edit r Peter Goldtlne '59 · · · • · · • · · • · · • ·• • • · • • · · · • • • · · · · • • • · '' • • ·' • • ~ Editgr Mark Krugman '60 ............................... • • ~hot015~ap ~ 1 r . Michael Rapaport '59 . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • • . Local A vertiBing ·t a£S·1e Peter Steinglas.s '60 . · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · ·~; · ·. · · · '} ·A~~~e~~~~~~I tr~na'g~~ Lance Barash 60 ........................ .-a tiona .. . : Hie hard Hussack '5:.! . . .....•....•......... Campus lir<'ula !Ion Manager A Moral Obligation That college and university profe~sors as a class !e- ceive salaries incommen'Surate with their amount of tram- ing is well known to those who profess any knowledge of the higher educationa:l scene. We. feel, therefore, ~hat the increases in faculty .salaries takm?\ place .at Un.IOn ~nd other schools are definitely steps m the n~I:t t drrecti?n. Only through increased monetary remu?~rat]()ns ca~ 1?- structors of high caliber be induced to JOin or rema:.m m the college family. A goodly portion of the money needed to augment the present salary scale, moreover, will be obtaine? from the tuition increase effective next September, which af- fects the present freshman and sophomore c l~s.ses, p~us all incoming students. Ex:cluded from the .tmtion rmse are the members of the p1~esent junior class, who received a written guarantee f:l'.'om the college stating that their tuition would remain at the 1955-56 level. We feel however, that Union has a moral obligation with her st~dents not to subject them to yearly tuition raises, whether or not a written guarantee actually ex- ists. A one hundred dollar rise in cost to the student may be expected in the four year span at Union, but a year!Y rise is something else again. One of the prime factors m choosing a college is the total cost involved; most students entering a college expect this cost to remain fairly con- stant. It may be argued that if the sophomore class were excluded from the tuition mise, a severe blow would be dealt to the program of higher professional salaries. Yet the class of 1960 will contl\ibute less than one third of the additional money derived from tuition for the coming academic year, while the salary increments will be derived only in part from the tuition raise. At worst, only a small portion of the proposed increase per professor need be lost, or more correctly, delayed. We hope that Union will adopt, as a general principle, that the tuition of no class be raised more than once during the four college years. There is a moral obligation to the student and his parents that should be considered. MBB Letters to the Editor .John Glass, President e>f the Student Coundl, wrote the fol- lowing Jetter to Dr. Norman Je>hnson, College 'Chaplin, as a result of the actions of cerf.ain members of the student be>dy at the January 12 Chapel service. Mr. Glass felt that an apology was due both Dr. Johnson and Dr. Sackman, main speaker, from the entire student body as fol- lows: Dear Dr. Johnson: .As the formal representative of the student body, the Student Ce>uncil extends 'its sincere apolo- gies for the discourtesies exhibit- ed in the Chapel service of Janu- ary 12th by several membe·rs of that body. Such discourtesies, we feel, in no way reflect the uni- versal sentiments of the persons we represent, but rath~r the thoughtlessness of those very few. We feel deeply about any wrong Impressions such unrepresentative acts may have left upon our Chapel guests, both speaker and visitors. To express our concern in this matter, a letter of apology has been extended to Dr. Sock- man by this same body, apologiz- Ing and urging that .these dis- courtesies not be construed as l\ep- resentative of the attitudes of the student body as a whole. . ,As representatives of the stu- dent body, and accountab-le as such, the Student !Council d.esires it to be known that it does in no way condone acts which discredit the general name of the student tions were being made continu- ally more unbearable for him. Ray was a supel\'b swimming coach. He very .competently led and coached us, capitalizing on our limited talents. His excellent record is conclusive evidence of his abilities. Union has lost its \winningest\ coach, mentor of o11r sole suc- cessful team this year. We of the swimming team have lost an integral part of a great tradition. However we are ce-rtainly going to try to extend that winning tra- dition, for Ray Mullane, for our enthusiastic new coach, Jerry Waldman, and for all those to whom Union is more than a mere pedestal on which to exercise am- bition. The members ()f the Union College Swimming Team. * * * To the Editor of Conc,ordieusls: During the past vacation, Un- ion's most successful post-war coach, and :perhaps the greatest, left his position as swimming mentor. There was no fanfare when Raymond Anthony Mullane left-but none was needed. Ray's undisputable talent is left in his record, something far more .per- manent than any hol1ow speeches of \sorrow\ at his departure, Over the past decade the Mul- lane-coached swimming team ran up the truly amazing percentage of .719. Many have forgotten that before he came to Union the swimming teams were the tra- ditional \patsies\ to any and all body. John Glass, President opponents. The pa5t six and a half years saw the unconquerable * * * and controversial coach lead ihis To the Editot· of ,concordiensls: team to a fifty-nine and thirteen We of the swimming team were record! very distressed to learn of Ray Ray Mullane's talent lay not Mullane's \resignation.\ To most only -in hi13 ·record. He had .the of us it was the suddenness .that innate ability to pick a boy out was hard to understand. We were of gym class, and turn him 'into a:U aware that Ray would be leav- a champion. His teams could lng- In the neaT future, as condi- (Continued on Page 4) / \Well I'xn glad that the administra.tion :flnally realized that we're mature enough for Wllimited cuts.~· -- Abstract-Expressionism American A;rt on Display By Ronald Weinstein American artists, In the last two decades, have produced ·new revolutio11ary concepts of painting which have been demonstrated in a style r-eferr~d to as \Abstract- Expressionism.\ Twenty - four representative works or this style will be displayed in Old Chapel, February- 16 through March 15. Abstract- Expressionism repre- sents the fusion of the basic con- cepts of abstract art and the Ex- pressioni.<St movement. In -ab- stract aJ;t, an attempt is made to create inherent picto'ral meaning. To accomplish this objective, full or partial destruction ·of the im- age results. The Expressionist movement empha.sized the trans- fer of emotion to the spectator through visual means. This is not abstract; the image is re- tained in true Expressionism al- though it may be distorted. Con- temporary art is directed by a combination or the basic abstract and expressionist ideas. Coming of Age .Americ-an artists have developed Abstract-Expressionism, and have, in doing so, placed the United States In a position or import- ance in the world art scene. They have succeeded in eliminating vis- ible influence of European art. Paris can no longer be -consid- ered the wo·rld art center, an un- contested position which it held to .. the c:entury preceding W:orld War II. Although still of vital importance, France now shares the spotlight with the United States on the world art stage. This style was born and gained l\ecognition during and directly after World War II. The work or Jackson Pol- lock and Willem de Kooning were of partie ular importance in the founding of the new school of artists, k:nown as the New York School. lt is noted that one of de Kooning's works will be on display ill the Old Chapel ex- hibit. With the recognition of these men, Abstract-Expression- ism gained momentum. Y oUllg artists gathered in New York and sha:red concepts and attitudes to- ward art. A sense of closeness prevailed among the Greenwich Village artists enhancing collab- oration an-d producing self-confi- dence within the .group. Through exhibition, other artists such as Rothko, Kline, Motherwell and Gottlieb spread the ideas of the mooement, demonstrating its im- portance and extending its influ- ence. Cultnra.J. Prestige Internationally leading artists and intellectuaJs now look to Americans for guidance, realizing the profound significance of the movement. .Culturally, Abstract- Expressionism is important be- <Jause it offers new concepts which have resulted in a rebirth of motivation In the art world. For the first time, American painters are being admired and respected by foreigners. Through this recognition, American cul- tural prestige is increased. Ac- cording te> Wayne Nowack, As- sistant Professor in Art, \The State Department doesn't realize fully the importance of the move- ment.\ Today culture is known to be an important agent in the de- velopment of American prestige abroad. Tbis might well be indi- cated in the future by further governmental recognition of art. Besides Willem de Kooning, American artists Adolph Gottlieb, Franz Kline and David Smith will be among the important paintel's represen-ted in the Old Chapel ex- hibit. The exhibit will afford students and area residents an unusual opportm::!ity to view ex- amples of America's recent con- tributions to warld art. The paintings, fumished by the ¥ar- tha Jackson Gallery in New York, will go on display this Sunday afterno,&n at 3.30. The Musical Box By Paul 'Frewullich After Benno and SylVia Rabinof finished t.he first piece of their Tuesday .llight concert (Tartini's Sonata in G Minor) the aUdience gave them a well merited round of applause. Mr. Rabinof had given a spil\ited and skillful per- formance that boded well for the remaindel\ of the program. This promise was not fulfilled. The- Beethoven Sonata. was played in workmanlike fashion, which hardly justified the long pauses, applause and bows after each of the first two movements. The last selection before intermis- sion, Wladigeroff's Vardar and Mr. Rah!nof's first piece of the second ha.lf, Glazounov's Grand Adagio, ,were treated in a florid· and overly emotional manner. It was difficult to believe that this was the same violinist who gave such a clean performance of the Tartini. Alms tor Brahms Mrs. Rabinof's four solo efl'orts were ren<lered competently. It the Brahms Rhapsody was a tri- fle heavy, the 'Chopin Scherzo atoned for it. A minor criticism might be :made as to the'pianist's selec·tion. It was showy and shal· low and lacked the subtley that would have made her portion of the program truly rewa.rdio~r. The presentation o:t Robert Ru.ssell Bennett's Five Turte t0a.r- toons would have been more ap- propriate to the stage of the Ed Sullivan Show than for a serious concert. Thel\e is a difference be- tween \light\ music and \trivial\ music. These sketches were triv- ial. The duo concluded the eve- ning with Paganini's Heartbeats, This brilliant virtuoso piece was ,Pandled excellently (despite a few technical flaws). Leaves Memorial Chapel I left Memorial Chapel with the feeling of having been cheated. If Mr. Rabinoff is as fine a vio- linist as he showed himself to be in the Tartini piece, why the triviality, the showiness, the sen- timentality? Why the cute little stories before,. each number (the sugE!.l\ coating on a supposedly un- pleasant pill?), when the :tnusic and its interpretation should have spoken for themselves. In sb.ort, the playing was disappointing, and the contents of the program unfortunate. I look forward hope- fully to the .next concert, the Tri- City Symphony playing Beetho· ven's Ninth, to regain the high standard of musical excellence that we have become accustomed to durin!i the tenure of Professor Curtia. Friday, February 14, 1958 Hell.W eek: A Sober View By Paul Wollm~n Upon 011-r own campus, 'because· of the necessity of the fraternity to act as a. dormitory and student union, an apparent faculty and· administration laxity in regard' .to certain fraternity 'Practices prevails. Lest one forget that Union Is the cradle of fraternities; there is an even greater stress to the administration's laissez faire attitude. I speak now of the \important\ period, the '\cru- cial'' period in the existence of the fraternity on the Union cam- pus, Hell' Week. One now asks himself: what is this sudden, or not so sudden, attack against fra- ternity policies .being waged at Williams, :B:amilton, Colgate, La- fayette and many more colleges? Last semeste,. it was deferred rushing, 100 per cent ·bidding and now i·t is an all out attack on so:tne campuses to end :the real joy, the long awaited yearly Hell Week. * * * From >Colgate comes the !:told headline in the Colgate Maroon: \FACULTY ACTION BRINGS END TO HELL. WEEK.\ From Hamilton this statement in ·the Hamilton Specta.tor: \As that mystical time of fraternity initia- tion draws near, we shudder at the nonsence we shaH have to endure in the name of \brother- hood\ and \shaping up\ the fresh- men: skulls and general witch- craft, mattress-carrying freshmen waking up the campus a.t night and dozing in classes, .that makes Hell Week a. waste o! 1pro!esaors' time and our money;\ May I call your attention to the last few words or .the a:bove Ham- ilton statement. They do not need elaborating for they are ·ever so true. \Pozing in class, waste of time and money.\ Notice the headline on the front page of t:Q.i.s paper. What does it say? Tui- tion raised ? Not again? We ju.st had a raise last year! That's right! Last year, this year, ancl in all probability in the next few years. This might be as .good a time as any for the HPC and the Student Council here at Union, \the Mother of Fraternities,'• to take the initiative in revising Hel! Week, which we .admit is not as bad as it u.sed to be, and in some fraternities 0'.!1 this campu.s vir- tually forsaken, to a more ma- ture .degree before the adminis- tration decides to. As far as anyone on the HPC, Student Council or in the Student Activities Of~ ice Jm:ows, there a'!le no wr:itten rules gaveming Hell Week on this campus with the exception of the \no ricies\ rule. Therefore, I should like to re- print part ·of an editoria;I from the Ha,~.Uton Spectator of this ·past January· 20. Please bear in mind that we have no rules and that the following might serve as a good, intelligent, mature start for some regulation. \The Student Senate next Mon- day will reconsider the Initiation Week rules. ·Part of Hell Week is harmless~the horseplay and misdirected 19th-century ritual. But ·part of Hell Week is plO'ten- tially dangerous and harmless -to .studies. TherefGre, any Hell Week rules should guard against: * * * 1. Physically harmfUl or . po- tentially .~ngerous acts. The death' of an MIT pledge last year gave the whole 'fraternity system a -black eye. But even the re- stricted pledge trips here do not completely insure that .a similar tragedy could' not happen at Ham- ilton. The ultimate solution, we !'eel, is to ce>n!ine all initiation activity to the fraternity's o;wn grounds. 2. Pel'sonal Humiliation ()f the pledge. Hamilton fraternities have ·generally co-operated in .this matter- and rightly deserve praise. 3. D()p:riving a pledge of time for study and sleep. Hamilton fraternities have ·either forgotten about this. rule or have maintain- ed with tongue in cheek that four hours 'is \sufficient\ ·time for sleep. Hell Week has reduced the first week of the ·new term to an acade)nic vacuum, !partly because the )}resent rules requir- ing \sufficient\ time for sleep and study are vague and unenforce- able. * '* * To a.ssure all freshmen pledges of at leMt a minimum time for sleep, ·we suggest that the Stu- dent Senate initiate a rule re- q.,tiring all freshmen to be i:q. their rooms by 1 A.M .. each night of Hell Week, South Dorm's upper- class advisors could enforce such a rule by checking every room in the dprmitory and reporting all absentees and their fraterni- ties to ,the Senate. For their own sake, it is time that the fraternities realized that, even in the traumatic time of Hell Week, they have more responsi- bility to their pledges than they n~ e::~rhibit.\ [=:· .......................... ;~~-~:~-~~~~;~:~~·~~~;:~~··:~·=~~~: ....................... .. the Fim fi'uoelry Stor~ Exbibitio11 ! of GENERAL ELECTRIC MAN MADE DIAMONDS Monday through Saturday 9:30A.M. to 5:30 P. M. Maurice B. Grau.bart & Sons ··:::::~:. 166 Jay Street Gem Soc:r'bt~ • Registered Jewelers, AmeriC'{m • , Serving Schenectady for Three Generattions :,.1111 I II II II II 11~111 I 1111111 I 111111111111111111.1111111 Ill IIIWIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllllllll: PROCTOR!S James Garn•r \DARBY'S RAINBOW\ - 2 HITS- \THE LAND UNKNOWN\ PLAZA Rock Hudson - Jennifer Jones \FAREWELL TO ARMS\ STATE \ Glenn Ford - Gia Scala • \ \DON'T GO NEAR THE WATER;' - 2 Hits- \DECISION AGAINST TIME\ RELIABLE RADIO SERVICE 736 State St. EX 3-8668 · • Sal•• 6 Service On All Mate• of RA D I 0 S • Cioooks - Port.ble - Car (Next to Mohawk ChewoJM;) :~~-·--··----~--~~--~~----~-----------------. Good Food Wltllolif Frills ~ NIOHOLAUS RESTAURANT f TrtE OLD RELIABLE I FOR OVER 60 YEARS ' .. ' Friday, By: Raoy ~ most co1 the lJni~ times. l n-ot com his Ieavi mlniShes on the while at a.n atm< seoretne1 tion. Well-li sbiped t his swin to recei' fron;J. ot: lege fan iors. 1 cannot l lane is c-oach, tl ion in t ~he~ tlhe que1 i:n the 11 ful seas• has bee was fir• be the< Teclmic: mained age. Anoth resignat ~resent a .mem should c It is a ' last s~ Mullane The Ad Departn that Mt anywa~ It suppt sul\prise rest of Then been UJ ion. W the pos ial and doUbtfu in addi1 pus ma ments. was at dictablE Yet E three -c• tlon of now az season Depart: and M1 quiet a son mi ite mu the sul We be bef, this o< ' Helen ding Sons. rely • ( Ther' de lie land JoCfg dail) mou hug< gam fo.oc Tel.

ell re- ast a fOI' ion en- to po- em re- we his e. me rm tu- re- of ~ .. .; I l I Friday, February 1_4, 1958 The· Spectator Gar!Iet Cag~rs To Face Swim Mentor Mullane Resigns; Kings Point On.Saturday· W· ld . . c·· . h· M'· . . \T Playing on their home court for the first time since a · man . oac ,es ' ermen eam has been 69 victories against only 27 defeats. During the past six years, his too.ms have racked up a total of 69 victorles while losing only i3 times. The past four years• record is even more im- pressive-SO victories, 8 losses. Over this ·period Union mermen have shattered a grand total of 102 college and pool records. opponents' pool reCOrds in the five meets so far .this season. :By Mordecai Braunstein the Christmas Holiday Tourney, the Garnet Five will be By Pete 1• steinglass seeking their seventh victory of the season when they' Ray Mullane, Garnet swimming • meet Kings Point in the coach for th~ .past 12 years; hand~ U • E t Memoria:l Fieldhouse ed. in his resignation in a sur~ Ray Mulla.ne was one of the U\~O·n : n ·ers d . h . PI'!Se move ·on Tuesday, Feb. 4. most contro\rersial fig'lll'es to ·Jti.t ··It · · ·· · · ay mg t. It Will The mentorship o~ the team has the Union sports scene in recent B ff l M' : t. second encounter been :taken over by Jerry Wald, =~on!ptl!~ryer:~~p~=g,, :!.~. U . · a .o ' ee . the two schools in @Ver a man, in what is probably only a · dozen ye p b bl t rt-' temporary pqsitlon. Waldman his leaving Union in no wa.y di- Garnet runners will enter in- · ars. ro a· e S a , wHl take on his new coaching mlni.Sh.es this controverSial aspect; door track competition tomorrow ers for the Dutchmen wrU duties along with his present on the eontmry lt ·increases it,· afternoon when they travel to be AI Duncker Billy Mather duties as trainer. while at the :sal1ie time throwing Buffalo State Invitational Meet at Max Steele 'Frank Crum' . With the •loss _.of Mullane, Un, a.n at:mospheFe of mystery and the 114th Street armory. . ' ' 10n has lost 1ts \winningest\ secretness ewer the whole situa- Dick Cole,. captain of the track and Larry P,obertsen. tion. team, will solo for Union in the Coach Tom Cartmill's cagers' Well-liked, ·if not actually war- sprints, the rest of .ib.e traveling gained their sixth victory over shiped by the :great majority of 'squad being composed of distance Trinity College Wednesday night, his swimmers, Ray did not seem men. Cole, who won both the· 72-68, but suffered a heartbreak- to receive this same idolization 100 yard ·and 22() yard Small Col- ing loss to Wesleyan University from other members of the col- lege championships last spring,· Tuesday, qy the slim score of lege. family, including his su.per- will compete in the 75 yard dash. 75-74. iors. The only statement that. According to· coach Bill Ketz, cannot be denied about Ray Mul- · Dick Lewis will 'be entered· in the Paced by Billy Mather and Al lane is that he was a very good · mile ·run VI hile Diclr Ruquist and· Duncker, the Garnet quintet en- B 'll w· t t 'II t' gaged in a see-saw duel with coach, the most successful ·a:t Un- · 1 m ·ers een WI · .see ac 10n ion in· the past few years. in the two. mile run. Ted and Jim Trinity that saw Union hit «% Cavender '11 b l't b t of their shots from the field, and T. he controver. s.y rages now over WI e sp I·. · e ween· the hal'f mi\le ·nd 11 ts gain control of the boards, taking tilie question: why does a. c. oa.c· h, · · a m e even . T om Hoffman h 38 rebounds to eq· ual the home in the midst of his m:ost ~m~ce:Ss-· 1 . • sop omore cross- a ·country sensation, will not travel team's 38. The decisive scoring ful season, leave his position? It With the squad due to recent ill- was done by Mathe-r, who made has been rumored that Mullane ness. good 21 points, and :Dun<:ker who was fired, yet this could hardly K t 1 'd d was not far behind with 18 points. be the case, since he had .tenure. e z ai so sal yester ay .that. he 1'ntends to send a t t th High scorer for Trinity was Ken Teehnic- 11 ·:, .:he could have re-· · ·earn ° e ~. IC4A meet \'arch 1 · N · y k Lyons, with 19 points. Dlinclrer' mained a.t Union until retirement ' \''- · . • m . ew or · He disclosed that he has entered. led Union in rebounds, taking 12. age. ICole in the ·so yard sprint, Lewis • · At Wesleyan, Cartmill's cagers Among these performances have been five record shattering Urnes by the 400 yard relay team of Kirke Bent, Olof Meinander, Pete Herman and Jim :McDonald. In- ·dividual records were set by Her- Ulan, Meinder and ·E<l Ruth. Mullane's 11 year ·reign as swim- ·ming coach bas been one in which he can take great pride. He took over a team in Hl47 which had .seen only two swimming seasons Another .possibllity is that Ray's in the 1,000 yard run, Ruquist in raced ahead of the Cardinals in resignation was· a forced one. The the two mile run and Hoffman the first half, to lead 37-32 at half ~resent athletic policy states that in the one ai)d .two mile affairs .. time. The Dutchmen held their a .member of the department On March 8, Union will play lead until the last minutes of the should coach more thaon one sport. host to Buffalo U .. , Buffalo State, h w Ray Mullane, who recently resigned his ooacJJlng· is seen giving advice .to one of his cra.ck relay teams. Mullane's ability to shape raw material into a fine swimmer came from his own swimming experi- ence. In 18 years of competitive swimming for the FlUBhing YMCA and the New York Athletic Club, Ray won trophies for 14 district championships, two junior na- tional and national champion- ships. The present Garnet team is po- tentially: the finest Mullane has ever put together. Although the team is lacking in individual stars, it is rich in talent, a quality that lends itself .to greater power and depth. \There is no telling bow far these kids can go,\ Mullane .predicted before he left. \They could develop into Union's great- est team.\ Resignati1m SUdden It game, w en esleyan tied the is a well known fact that since Robert Wesleyan, RPI, Vermont,. score at· 62-62. In those last last spring's lacrosse incident Hamilton and .Alfred for its only th M 11 utes e lead .changed ·hands eight u · ane mentored only swimming. home indoor meet to conclude the times. Union was ahead 74-73 The Administration and Athletic winter track schedule. T'hi's an- D t with ·three seconds to go, when epar ment flatJy deny, however, nual invita;tional meet will be th , Don Skinner tapped in the basket at Mullane s resignation was in staged on .the cinder oval in Me· h that won the ganie for WesleY .. an. any way, s ape or manner forced. memorial Field House. Frank Crum and Larry Robert- son sparked the Dutchmen, Crum scoring 25 points for a Garnet in- dividual high for the season, while Robertson crashed through in the opening ten minutes of the game to score ten points, tallying 16 for the night. Skinner led the Card- inals with 25 points. It supposedly came as much of a o, __ _ surprise to them as it did to the M•··nor ln·tra Status rest of the college. Then again, Mullane might have A new sport has been added been unhaPIPY wiifh his lot at Un- to the intramural scene. [t is ion. Whether he could rise above badminton which first made its the position he occupied, financ- debut in the Sophomore gym pro- ial and hierarchical, is extremely gram and p·rovea popular enough doUbtful. And personality clasheS, to be extended to intra status. in addition to :factors off the cam- The sport is · being tried on an pus may have added to his senti- experimental basis. Three leagues ments. Ray Mullane, moreover, have been organized by Art Law- was at best not tihe most pre- renee for competition and badmin- dictable character. ton has been given a \minor\ sta- The suddenness of Mu.Ilane's resignation came as a shock to many students, especially the members of .the swimming team. Although it was ·believed that Ray 'might leave Union at the end of the current season, his leaving earlier than .that was completely unexpected. What seems to ·be ·even more surtprising is the !act that Mu.llane left right in the mid- dle of a swimming season which had the prospects of being his coach. In a year marked by dis- in its 28 years of competitive .finest as a coach. Ray did not appointing athletic records, the swimming. Although his first publicly express the reasons for mermen under Mullane nave com- season was a mediocre 1-4, in the his sudden resignation. nr. Dav- piled a long string of victories and. following three years he com- idson, however, sa.ld that Mullane record - breaking performances_ piled records of 4-5, 5-4, and 5-4. left .so that he could be consid- Thus far their record is 4-1 w!tn. In the 1950-51 season Mullane ered for another engagement . the only loss coming at the hands caine into his own and the team. Mullane left the college leaving of Union~s perennial nemesis, Wil- compiled an impressive 9-1 mark. bellind him a fine team which will liams. Even more impressive,. Since that time no Mullane-coach- be a terrific challenge to new however, are the times that Gar-' ed team has lost more than three coach Waldman. We wish both net has smashed 16 Union Col-: meets in any one season. men the best of luck in their new lege and Union pool records and' Ray's overall record at Union endeavors. All Freshmen interested in managing· freshman track are · requested to contact track Yet even if any or all of these tus as an intramural event. three conjectures is true, the ques- 'l;'he po~sibility of the badminton tion of why Ray Mullane resigned intra was first suggested to Law- now and not at .the end of the renee by a J{X>ncordy member. . .coach Bill Ketz during prac- tice at the Fieldhouse, Mon- day through Friday at 4:30 P.M. season remains. The Athletic Department, the Administration and Mullane have been strangely quiet al;>Out this. A specific rea,. son must exist, something defin- ite must have taken place, yet the .subject seems to be taboo. We wonder how long it need be before some light is 'shed on this (}Ccult situation. MARRY ME Helen ••. and I'll buy the Wed- ding Ring at Maurice B. Graubarf & Sons, Jewelers, 161. Jay St. We can· roll( on their 3 generation reputation. Harry DAMBROS.E Cleaners Discounts +o all UNION Students Cor. Van Vra.nlren Ave. & Nott St. FR 4-5193 • STOWE'S POPULAR SKI DORM THE ROUND HEARTH There's n6thing like it! Join in the delightfully casual fun of Ski· land's most unique, popular JoCfge. Live dorm style ••• $5.75 daily, $35 weekly; 2 meals. Fa- mous circ1,1lar fireplace sparkles huge dine-dance area. Lounge, game room, Fun galore! Fine food·, good beds.Write: Fdder or Tel. SlOWS, Vt., Al.pio1t l-7223. Save on Phil's own Brands PHIL ENGLEHARDT'S Liquor Store 511 Union Street · EX 3-31 10 Have You.lnvestigated fi'RE • Factory Hartford ENGINEERIN·G ~ • For a future with a challenge, • investigate the opportunities that can be yours with the nation's largest i·nsurance ·organization· serving American industty, the Factory Insurance ~ssociation. See our brochure at your Place- ment Office and arrange to see our represex~.tative when he visits· the oompus on February 19 Insurance Association San Fnnclsa• • \*· the rl.- S Jenny's gClt it ••• the bri~ht taste in beer! Begin this evening with Genesee. Pour it, fresh and cold ... brilliantly clear.a:ndfull of life. Taste its light, lively flav<>r. That's the bright taste in beer-anditst(Lys bright, glass after glass! Relax at home or at your friendly taverh, have a Jenny- the bright taste in beer! IHI QINIISIEE .RI.WINQ CO., Rocheater, N.Y. ~----------------------------------------· I . A : JAY JEWELRY -·CO. : 1 315 STATE STREET I 1 11 Q Diamond Importers :: 1 Member Piamcnd Bureau I Antwerp, Belgu!l' 1 : I 1 ARNOLD FISHER '50 • ·-----------------------~----------------~

4 Friday, February 14, 1958 Mountebanks To Produce Ancient Greek Tragedy lsraeliD·iplomat Wi:llGive Address at IRC Meeting Letters to the Edito·r (Continued from Page 2) realizes. Unhe!\a:l<;led and lacking: the scholastic .stigma of deg.rees, never be judged by their':Perform- tt t:r · d ance ag-ainst the mediocre clubs. Ray Mtil'lane was be . er . . al~e . When it rame to the really tough ~:::n ~o:~y s:~c::~[~ C~l:x~~ f~~~ Estate Donates Gift of $100,000 Receipt of a $100,000 l:)equest from the estate of the late MrS. Marjor~e Nott Morawetz of Guild- erland, ~ew York, and New York City, ha.s· just .been announced. The gift, according to Dr. Cat·ter Davidson,. -will be added tG Union!s $21,000;000 endowment, and its in- come wil'l be used for mai:(ltenance of the College's campus and gar- dens. The Mountebanks production of OedipUs >Rex will run from Thurs- evening, March 20, through Tues- day evening, March 25. The fiaal casting bas taken place this week. Y ohanan l\Ie11oz, Counsellor of the Embassy of Israel, will speak before the International Relations Club, Wed- nesday, February 1:9, at 7:30 P. M. in Bailey Hall 201. meets, where tliey were often un-' was his suceess mere self-agradiz- derdogs, the ~ullanemen could ment, for his constant a:bility to constantly be counted upon to build and train winning Albert Katz will play the part of Oedipus; Helen Slayton will ap- pear in the role,,ef Jocasta; Creon Creon will be played by RGbert Messard and Fred Hall will play Teiresias. Others in the cast are Bill Herman, Gary Gilmore and Merle Galusha. Professor Gifford Wingate of the Dramatics Department will do the directing, assisted by Michael Berkman. His topic will be Israel and •I the Middle East. Well qualified to speak in this area, Mr. Meroz has been asso- ciated with the Israel Foreign J Ministry since 1950. He was suc- cessively Assistant Director of the · United Nations Division and Prin- cipal Assistant Director of the British Commonwea:lth Division. Assigned to the Israel Legation in Ankara in March 1952, he served as First Secretary and Charge d'Affail'es until July 1954, when he was appointed First See- Founders D retary at the Israel Embassy in . ay Washington. In February 1957, he (Continued from Page 1) Was promoted to the rank of Counsellor. ent, was finally launched in 1&16. Mr. Mel'OZ was born in Ger- This did not mark the end of the many in 1920. He came to Israel scientist's own difficulties, be- in 1933, and completed his second- cause in 1818 Congress passed a ary education in Tel Aviv. •Con- law placing the Coast Survey un- tinuing his studies at the Hebrew der the Army and Navy Depart- University of Jerusalem and at ments and prohibiting the em- the London School of Economics, ployrnent of civilians in that he specialized in Semitic phil- work. ology, history and international Congress retracted its :wt and affairs. in 1832 Hassler was reappointed During World War II Mr. Superintendent by President 'Meroz served in the Royal Air Jackson. He remained in the ser- Force. In 1948 he joined the Israel vice of the government until his Defense Forces and was later death in 1843. second to the Military Governor· Dr. Could, who will deliver the of Jerusalem. principal address honoring Hass- In addition to his diplomatic ler, has entitled his talk IGY and work, Mr. Meroz has been active the Future of Geophysical Re- · in the field of literature, having search a.nd Development. As Di- been awarded recognition for rector of the U. S. Antarctic pro- achievement both in English and gram an.d as U. S. representative Hebrew. on the Special Committee on 0 __ _ Antar-ctic Research, Dr. Gould Blood D·onati.Oll has played a prominent role in America's IGY efforts. Recognized as one of the great- Record Sought est living authorities on polar re- search and exploration, Dr. Gould The College will attempt to made two trips to the Antarctic shatter its record of 386 pints during 1957. Earlier last year, he in the blood drive which will directed the establishment of six take place on March ·5 and 6. scientific bases for the U. S. IGY Pledges for blood will ·be ac- operations, and in November he cepted from February 17 to 27. returned for an inspection tour Students who donate blood will with members of the House of be entitled to receive blood free Representatives Committee on of charge. Cups will also be Interstate and Foreign Commerce. awarded to fraternities having Highlights of his earlier career 100 per cent participation. were the first University of Post cards ·requesting permis- Michigan Greenland Expedition sian for a blood donation have of 1926, the Putnam Baffin Island been sent to parents of students Expedition of 1927, and the first who are under 21. On the Blood Byrd Antarctic Expedition of Drive Committee are Karl Mey- 1928-30. ers, Gerald DePass, William MARRY ME Tammy • • . and I'll buy the Wed- ding Ring at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay St. We can rely on their 3 generation reputation. Tom RIZZIO'S ii , RESTAURANT • I Oor. Erie Blvd. & Jefferson St. Specializing in . : Italian-American Food ! • I A Good Place for Sunday Meals i Special Rates on Parties 1 -~~--~~~~~~~---~' Union's Leader in Cleaning & Shirt Laundering BALL'S INC. 224 Nott Terrace Dl 6-3456 Special 1 Hr. Cleaning Service 7 ID. Service on Shirts Gute and Thomas McCarthy. JAM E-5 Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford Booth and Fountain Service 426 State St. Gazette Press • 332 State St. IV .... ,., \'\ ...... L. CL BALFOUR CO. Fraternity Jevvelers BADGES- RINGS -FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIF.l'S STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDAI.S - TROPBDlS Write or Call CARL SORENSEN 171 Marshall St.,Syraouse,N. Y. Phone Granite 5-'788'7 FERRO'S RESTAURANT 'Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar Free Parking PIZZA 016~9554 I 115 Barrett St. win. has done much to add e-dlor to a This ye<ar'.s sWimming team, normally drab athletic record'. while young, has shown the prom- ise and enthusiasm of former Ih my persona.! contacts with great teams. During one weekend Mt. Mullane, I found him a pleas- in January the team broke thir- ant, stimulating coach, dedicated teen records in two meets. The to his sport. He was always· able treated with the · great lack of team hopes to continue this pat- to win the obedience, coopexation, · 1;espect oand understanding that I tern under jts new and enthusias- and most of all, the admiration am sure prompted his l'el3igna- tic: coach. Yet Ray Mullane •vili of his swimmet,s. It is ip.qeed Uon. be missed. With five meets and unfortunate th'll.t such a 'leader · the state {lhampionships coming in his field should ha'Ve been Paul B. Ho~fer•· •60 up in three weeks .Ray's quarter- century of swimming experience will 'be needed. JOB AVAILABLE It is a final tribute to Ray that just before \tesi'gning\ he was 'busily e~gaged in sc0uting other clubs and ~cyfng to get swimmers for future teams. All of us on the swimming team wish Ray the best of luck in getting a new job and hope that before we grad- uate we don't nave to swim against a Mullane-coached team. The growing Toms River ,(N, J•,) School .is employing for Sep-tember '1958, sever a I K-6, a few 7-8 .and· several high school lea<;hers. If you like the ; seashore resort a rea along with a be- : · ginning bas<> salary of $4 1 000, contact . : . Clyde W. Slocum, SuperintendenT soon. .Financial credit is given for men or women who 'have completed miliiary :or previous leaching service. Ju.hn Lubetkin * * * To the Editor of Concordiensis: MR. CLYDE W. SLOCUivt Su~erintendent of Schools Yoha.na.n Meroz will speak With the resignation of Ray the IRC next Wednesday on · Mullane, Union has suffered a Is~ and tile Middle East. more considerable loss thart it Toms ·River School, Toms River, N. u·. I at WESTERN ELECTRIC ,\s THE world's largest manufacturer ~ of communications equipment our continued progress depends greatly on our engineers. They have a key role in the production of some 50,000 types of apparatus and component parts that Western Elech·ic makes in a given year. • To our engineers falls the monu- mental task of developing manufactur- ing operations and of planning the installation of telephone cenh·al office equipment across the nation. They de- vise the new mac1ines, tools and meth- ods needed to do our job. They also shoulder the major l'esponsibilities .in carrying out the defense contracts the government has asked us to take over- major projects like the Nike guided mis- sile system and the Distant Early Warn- ing (DEW) Line. e In the course of their technical work, engineers participate in such broad managerial functions as production, merchandising, installation, and r;nany others. What's more, we have a record of promotions from within. It's not sul'- prising, therefore, that fifty-five percent of the college graduates in our upper levels of management have engineel'ing degrees. e Naturally we do everything possible to encourage and speed the professional deve1opment of our engineel's. Just re- cently, for example, we inaugurated a full-time off-the-job Graduate Engineer- ing Training Program at special train- ing centers, a program with few paral- lels in American industry. • The new engineer moves into the first phase of this program,· Introduc- tion to Western Elecb·ic Engineering, four to six months after he joins us and devotes nine weeks of study to such technical subjects as communications systems, militaty elecaonic systems, product design principles. He takes part in the second phase, General Develop- ment, after the first year on the job. In this phase he devotes nine weeks to courses in human relations, semantics, engineering statistics, electronics, meas• urements and instrumentation, systems circuit analysis. The third phase, Ad· vanced Development ( 4 weeks per year), is available to selected engineers and is geared to the indiVidual to help develop his creative engineering abili- ties; goes deeply into such subjects as magnetics, computer applications, elec- tronic switching, radar fundamentals, feedback conh·ol systems and technical paper writing. • Besides this company-wide program,, a number of our divisions offer indivi- • Western Electric has major manufacturing plants located at ()hicago and Dec~tur, Ill.; Kearny, N.J.; Baltimore, Md.; lndianapoli~. Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale; Pa.; Burlington, Greensboro and Winston-Salem, N.C.; Buffalo, N.Y.; North Andover, Mass.; lincoln and Omaha, Neb.; St. Paul and Duluth, Minn. Distribution Centers ·in 32 cities. Installation head· quarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New'.Yorl<, N. Y. Also Teletype Corporation, Chicago 14, Illinois. dual engineering courses in their own specialties. We also spQnsor a Tuition Refund Pian for out-of~hours study at nearby colleges. Open to all employees, this plan helps our engineers study for advanced degrees at Company expense. 8 Truly there's an engineer's world h.ere at Western Electric . . . one in which engineers in every field of spe- cialization can expeet to grow. For further information write: Engineering Personnel, Room 1029, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N, Y. OPPORTUNITES FOR - ENGINEERING GRADUATES (Supervisory and odrninistrative,opp<Jrtunities exist in each field) Analysis for manufacturing operations: Machine and tool requirements-M.E., E.E.; Space requirements-M.E., LEu Test facility requirements-E.E.; Personnel require- ments-I.E.; Electric power, light arrd heat reqvirements-E.E.; Raw material require- ments-Chem. ·E., Met. E., P.hy. Sc.; Procedures and processes-M.E., I.E.; Time and Motion Studies--I.E.; Investigation of manufacturing difficulties-M.E.;_Quality control -M.E., E;E. . Planning telephone central' offices: Eqpiprnent requirements-E.E.; Power and cable requi rements-E.E. • DeVelopment and design: New machines ond tools-M.E., ·E.E.; Material handling methods-M.E., I.E.; New equipment and processes-M.E., E.E.; Repair shop methods -M.E.; Testing facilities-E.E.; Testing methods-E.E.; Job evaluation studies-I.E.; Wage incentive studies~I.E,; Production control studies-I.E.; lmprGved chemical proc- esses-Chem. E., Met. E., PhY. Sc.; New application for metals and alloys-Chem. E., Met. E., Phy. ,Sc.; Raw material test procedures'-Chem. E., Met. E.; Phy. Sc.; Service to military on electronic devices-E;E. UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM



· · ~ - · · Page Two Friday, February 21., 1958 l FrillC.y. i ·-----:-----------.----1 • For All Your Pamt : GO · INGS ON ABO : UT TOWN· fand Hardware Needs i , I s u · • 1 ee ' S 1 I I : CAPITOL PAINT & r . HARDWARE CO. I . ' 1 731) STATE ST. I ' ' ' Phone FR 4-4123 t · t---·--·----..-----------' MARRY ME Hazel . , • . and I ' ll buy ihe Wedding Ring at Maurice o, Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, I 66 Jay St. We can rely on their 3 genoratio11 repuation . Hersh THE THEATRE (You forget that this is Schenectady.) NIGHT LIFE (Some places where you will .find music or other entertain- ment . ) STAGS, BEER, and SMOKE niamilalte's, Nott St., across · from the back gate . Always crowded of a Friday night, Butch .and his genial bartenders some- how manage to keep up with the demand. The · beer is usually wann with lots of head. A juke box, Mary Jo and Joan provide t:he entertainment. • Ponzies, on Van 'Vranken Ave . , form e rly the Field House Inn of notorious fame, still catering to the juvenile crowd. Recently re- opened, it lacks the boisterous, frantic after-game atmosphere of its former days. Dancing to juke- box < R&R only). . THE CASUAL CALENDAR Hillview, way out of town to- wards Duanesburg, is about the same as the above . Usually a ·-------•-·------------, few stag girls around smne ·~of (lourse Shi!'s yoWtg but she makes out like cr-azy!\ l L lJ I /'!!!.. J 1 S l nights quite a few. Two dollar religious music in the Chapel Ves- t · · \:iiJ · t night once a month. pers Service. 1 RESTAURANT ! Green ~!~~!!~ St, off l Specializing in t 1 · Erie Blvd. Open under new man - 1 agement since former owner fail- 1 Italian-American Food 1 1 ed to meet hi · s protection pay- 1 t t t 1125 · BARREn ST. 11 ments. Formerly jumping, now dead. No place to take a date, : Schenectady Dl 6-9744 1 1 hut one can come in contact with ' a more mature type of companion . • Enioy Our : Back-Stage Bar. 172 Erie Blvd. ! Perhaps one of the most scenic l Sizzling Steaks and Chops 1 spots in town. A place where f 1 one meets all kinds . If you like i-~!!,_~~- · ~~::~.?~~,!~_B-~J to watch a fight with your beer , RELIABLE RADI · O SE ' RVICE 736 State St. EX 3·8668 · • Sales 6 Service On All ~al<es of RAil lOS • Clocks - Portable - Ca;r Hl-Fi Sets Tape Recorders (Next to Moluwlt Chevrolet) p R 0 c. TO · R Is WALT DISNEY'S \OLD 'YELLER\ e~nd \PORTUGAL II In Color PLA:Z/1. - 2 Action liits - \MOTORCYCLE &ANG\ \'SORORITY GIRL\ STATE Rock Hud$on · - Jennifer Jones Vitlorio De Sica \FAREWELL TO ARMS\ this · is the place to go, but not . alone . Entertainment for t:he evening is also available . QUIET and RESERVED Union Inn, lower Union St. The ultimate in collegiate atmosphere in this town. Important figures in campus life gather here, for- merly including Ray Mullane. A nice place to take a date . No · band, but a jukebox with some- thing besides rock and roll. The Van Curler Taproom, lower State St., at the bridge. Not ex- actly the place to take an ordi- nary date, but if you're willing to pay for the big snow job , this is the place to do it . Bill Barron, the head barkeep, can mix any- thing your heart des i res. ART (Unless ()therwise noted, gal- leries are open seven days a we e k from around 9 in the morn- ing to the early evening). GALLERY Old Oha.pel-Abstract Expres- sionist . paintings by members of the contemporary American school, including WU!em de Kooning, Adolph Gottlieb, Franz Kline and David Smith . MUSIC Alumni Gymnasium- Francis Murphy and his 12 piece orches- tra at Union College's fifth Mardi Gras , a masquerade ball, from 9 Friday night, Sept. 21 to :1,. • , , The Fabulous Five, a local jazz group with a !program varying from Dixieland to modern, from 8 to 11 .P.M., \Saturday Night, Sept. 22. Men'torial ·Chapel-Union Col- lege's Glee ! Club and the New Paltz State Teachers College will present a joint concert Sunday, Feb. 23 at 4 :00 ; ..• At 7:30 these groups will present a concert of SPORTS Basketball-Saturday, Feb . 22 at Union. Union vs. RPI. Fresh- m a n at 2 : 00, Varsity at 4 : 00 ... Feb . 26 at Union, Union vs. Roch- ester. Va r sity at 8:30 . . . Feb. 28 at Union . Union vs. Norwich. Varsity at 8:00. Swimming~Feb . 22 at Union . Union vs, Rutgers. Varsity at 4:30. OTHER EVENTS Bridge-The National Intercol- legiate Bri<lge Tournament will be held next Tuesday Evening, February 25 . For enrollment, con- tact Gene 'Cas s idy, at the Delta Upsilon Fraternity House. (FR 4-8198) Chess-The .Chess Club of Un- ion College will meet on Tues- day, Febr11ary 25, at 7:30 P.M. at the Washburn Hall studios of Radio Statio nWRUC. The Chess ' Club cordially invites all inter- ested persons to attend. Photography-The Union Col- lege Ph()tographic Society will hold a Color Clinic on enlarging froon colol' transparencies. This special meeting will be held in the darkrooms of the Society, located in Silliman Hall on Mon- day, February 24, at 7:30 P . M. Specia,l prgblems of enlarging color transpal'encies to color en- largements, as well as enlarging THE AIR BOOKS FABLES FOR OUR TIMES MUSICAL EVEI'{TS PROFILES SPORTS THE NJEUW YAWKER WASHBURN BUILDING TELEPHONE Page 10 13 II 10 9 12 Advertising & Edilorial Off i ces EXP. 3-7778 LEAGAL NOTICE Any similarity between this publication and any other publication . Is purely unlnten· tional and coincidental. So please don't sue. transparencies to blacl:t and white prints by projection 'W'Iill be dis- cussed. Football-A meeting · Of all stu- dents desiring to pai\'ticipate in Varsity football next fall will be held on Monday, Fellruary 24, at 7:30, in the Alumn:i Gymnas- ium. Lacrosse- All students inter- ested in managing or :playing la- crosse are invited to meet with coach Bruce Allison in the Alum- ni Gymnasium . Coac:h Allison stresses that experien~e is not necessary for either playing or managing . Note-All Seniors-'['he <lead- line date for measurement and rental payrne . nt of cap and gowns is March 15 , at the Bo~k.store in Washburn Hall. Rental fee of cap and gown is $4.00 per matri- culant. WRUC -continuous broadcast- · ing the entire Prom Weekend. 640 on you!' campus radio dial. FOR CHILDREN Lectures-By now, it':s as tra- ditional as the Christr:nas tree. Dr. Winne delivers his famous treatises every Monday and Wednesday morning at 9 : 00 in the Biology i Jmilding. His dis- cussions range from tb e sexual habits M the AustraliiE.h AbOri - gine to the transit fac:ilities of France. It ' s a well - rou:nded leC - ture and provides an exc:ellent at- mosphere for the young- child to develop his naturr.tl curiosity . Free of charge . Discussion Groups - Experi- ments in modern ed:ucational methods are held in the Psychol- ogy building at varied hours . Parents are encourag-ed · ' to send their children to padlc:lpate in these disctulsions. New trends in progressive education are ex- amined by skilled psycllologists who gain much necessary infor- mation from these experimenta- tions. Poetry Rea.dings-Dr . Car-l Nie- meyer's lectures · are marked . by poetry readings · and lessons In penmans~i:p . , tllat long-f.()rgotten art. M1ke Wallace ty~e · inter- views are held with th~ young- - sters, who profit greatly from this chance to lose their' inhibi- tions. Every Tuesday, T!:utrsday, and Saturday at 8:00 ; N . o · charge. I I I , . I M. Johr Sp)lte . Kirke. Jack . . • J)uda:. · Ed . . . . . Ned' ... Mac ... Les ... Ol.d ' TO] Bre:wst• Nick . Chuek Ernie Ronnie Ashr:nO l Gid ... Dick. Paul. Pete . Marty Walru~ Mya.:th N:ag-as~ Crudm Pinhea Gab ear Jollyle. An teat Thirst: Wint Kur-t Bill A Ror:nrr: Slim Maste Bo . . PhilliJ \·D . A Sc!U'f~ Etern: Nunzi Pseu~ Gn-at Eir-di( sw·an Tb.e' Lothr Franl Wilt c. Sc Fa.lC( Mino Sinlt• Th.OX: Ca.rp Stan• van Sh.ax: Peck Ad at 1<Utc w-oo Schr NeW Die~ :Msa. Escy Lain IOaJ Hug c:an · Mill Otto Roe La! Spi : Da1 q.< J. : Ovi Dlx 'Nu: Cal De j FiE StE LIE 'R. <}o Pa

1958 ....... \ - v-hite dis- stu- ~ in I be 24, nas- tter- · la- ;vith um- is on not or lad- and vns ' in of tri- 1St- ' nd . I. ra- · ee . >us nd in .is- Ial ri- of ~­ :Lt- to ty. ri- . al )} . ~s . ld in is X· ts r- a- n i- '· ~ · · I , . I Page 1'hre·e MISCELL - ANY ALPHA DELTA PHI M. John . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . Georgia :Ballantine .... Glasgow, .Scotland Spilte ................... . , Sue Wallace .............. Schenectady Kirke .... . .... . ... ' . . . . . Andrea Brown . . • . Geo. Washington U. Jack . . . . . .. . .......... . ..... Penny Block . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Duda. .. . • . . •. ........... Liz DeGosztonyi ...... . ... U. of Toronto Ed . . ... . . .................... Joa:.n Allen •....•........... . Skidmore Ned ' .... . ............. . ... . . Adel1Murray ..... . .......... Schenectady Mac ... . ..... .. .......... , . . Pat Gravner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Buffalo Les • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hun Epstein . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore OLd ' Top ..... . .... . . . ... .. Peggy Graessle .... . . . ... . ....... Vassar Bre,vster . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Nick ............. .\. . . . . Peggy Silverman ..... ~ . . . . . . . . Skidmore Chuc:k .. • .. .. . . . .. . . . . . . .. . A Friend . . ... ... Skidmore or Elmira Ernie . . .... . ... . ......... Carol O'DI>nnell . . .. . ... .. . New R<Ochelle Ronnie P. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joanne P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Ashmore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . U. Conn Gid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Dick .................. . ... Sandy · Giles .. . ... . .• .. . . .. Wayne, Pa. Paul ...•................. Ellen Bleeker ... .. ... .. .. . . Wayne, Pa. Pete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marjory Sapperstein . . . . Centenary College Marty ................... Laura Zamarin . •.. Spring Valley, N.Y . CHI PSI Walrus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lynners . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Snowtown Mya:th . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Duke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . R. P. I. Nagasaki .... .. . . .. . . . . . . . . .. Marie . . ... . ......... . .... California Crudman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cucumber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Pinhead •........ , ..... The Jr. Psychiologist ...... . ... Al · bany State c · abear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . El . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Al:bany State J ollyle.ss Bill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lynn B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Anteater ..... . . . ... .... ...... . Ant . . .. .. . ..... . ... Ant Hill, N.Y. Th i rsty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 'Sandy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cornball Wint .................. . ... . .. Ja c kie . . . . . . . . . . Pepinster, Belg'ique Kurt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phyllis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cemetery Bill A.. . . . • . . . . • . . • . . • . • . • . . . Georgi e ... ... . . . .... . .. Albany State Romrnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . F-oxie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Desert Slim . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Knocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hunger Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Bates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Bo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jane D . . .... . .. . ....... ... .. Kitchen Phillip Spencer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mabel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mabel's Motel \ · D. A.. \ Dixon . . . . . . . . . . Ann Purgatory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . da Sticks Sca;r f ace . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emanon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Burnt Hills Etern-al · Pledge . ... . ....... No Sweat .............. .. . . .. .. ..... ? Nunziado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Protrusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skid Row Psell(J'O . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carol S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mad. Magazine Gnat Xing .. . .... . .......... The Mrs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Bir-die . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. B i rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady S\vanny . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Th.e 7 - footer ............ .. The 4-footer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Lothrop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Smythe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . Mass. Frank Ward . . ... . .... .. .. . Pat Ward ......... . ..... Leavenworth Wilt the Stilt Pfeiffer . . . . . . Unknown . . . . . . . . . . . Green Mountain SIGMA PHI C. Schwan . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . Maxine Meier . . . . . . . . . Green Mountain Falcone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hillary Randolph . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vassar Minor .. .................... Toni Ro.bb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidm<Jre Sinker . .. . ....... . .... Vivica ICabot..J:Jo.dge . ...... . ..... Wellesley Thompson ... . ..... . ....... Bebty Blue . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . Syracuse Carpenter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara TwiC'hell • . . . . . . . . . Buffalo State Stand wood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Martha Gidley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Potsdam Van Dyck . .. . . . ......... Nancy Roberts ........... . .... . Syracuse Shanley . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . Johanna Pope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Smith Peck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Donna Case ......... . .. . , . . . Skidmore Adams .... . .. ...... . . . .. Barbara Travers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Manhasett Mitchell ..... . ..... . . . . Mary Ann McNeal .... . ..... Northwestern W<Jod ... .. . . ... . .. . . . . Lenore Clemenshaw .. . .......... Skidmore Schr-oder .. . . .. .. . . ... . .. Betty Schwartz ................ U. V. M . N e \ vnllam . .. .. .. . . . • . • .. • Celia Hiley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Skidmore Dickinson . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . Agnes Y ooho . . . . . . . . . . . . Georgia Tech :eisa. . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara Henry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Esty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hurricane Hartlnan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hood Laing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Churchmound . . . . . . . . . . St. Andrews IOa.ppas .................. Roberta Shaw .................... Wells Hllghes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dierdre Grimes . . . . . . . Randolph M~con c:antw-elr . .. .. . . . . . . ... Vivian Ransey-Stuart . . . ...... . .... Wheaton Miller .... . ....... . . . .. . . Carolyn Bennet . ........ New York City DELTA PHI Otto Qrabner . .. . . . . . . . . . . Sally Pew . • .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . Skidmore Ross Foster • .. . .. .. .. .. . Phillis Prescot .. . . .. .. . .. . . .. . Skidmore I...aRoeque . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . Carol Hand · ....•.....• , . . • • . Skidmore Splrawk . • .. .. • .. . . • .. . .. . Sue :Adisas . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. . . Skidmore Dan Grenning . .. . • • . • .. . .. Peggy Orr . .. . • . .. . .. .. . . .. . Skidmore q. Gregory Meaker • . . . . . Marian ~enken ..•....••... , . .• Skidmore J . Howard Murray ...... Nancy Stenick .................. Douglas Ovi · Wappenstein .. . .. .. . . .. . . . . X .. . .. .. . . . .. .. . .. . . .. • Ski~ore Dixie ..... , . • ........... Ruth Butterfield •.....•.• Newton, Mass. N11yers . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sandy I...ewis . • • . • • . . . • . • . . . . . Skidmore Camp-ani ....... . ........... :aohbi Ernst ..•.•.•.............. Ul).ion Deming . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lee Owens • • . . • . • Bernardsville, N. J. Fisher • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • Pera Killer .•..••...•........... House Stewart . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . Betty .Anderson . • . . • • • . • . . Peyton Place L!siek . . . • . • . . • . . . . • . . • Margretta Beishline . . . . . • . . . . • . . Skidmore :R. Byrne . .. .. • .. .. .. . .. . Julie Cavanagh .. • . • .. . • . .. • Bennington -Goldsmith • • . . . . . . • • • • . . Judy Francisco •.... , Garden City, N. Y. Pandick ..... . •.... • .• . ..... !M:ary Joe ..•.•.....•..... Diamante's KAPPA NU Dan W. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Paula S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore · Morty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . Carole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . NYC Tom ......... . ..... . ..... . .. Winnie ... . ...... . . . .... . . . . . .• PS 24 Silk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Satan . . • . . • . . . . . . . . Cape Canaveral IF . . ....... . ................... JJ ....• •. ..... . . . ... . ... Skidmore :b· Dare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . Madeline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Columbia D D · Diana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jill .... . .... . .......... Mlcl:t. State Little Gator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Linda . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn Abe .......................... Judy ....... .. .................. NY Straight Arrow . . . . . . . . . . . Little · suzy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Hoch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · LN . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BU Ya .. ·:... . .... . .... . ... . . . . . . . . M~ .................. . ....... Sage Heznz1e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bra1n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · skidmore Daddy Don . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Naive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidm-ore Napoleon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wit . ..................... Skidmore !\'fike . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Mel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Judy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Mount Larry ..... , . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Liz .. • .. • . • .. . .. .. . .. . .. • .. • UCLA Dan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · Fran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Syracuse The Bern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce ......... . ........... Skidmore Coznowski- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Suzy Q • . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . Highland U. Bob . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shrimp .... . ................• . Hades Art . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Linda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · Mt. Ida Steve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Judy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schene<:tady Oedipus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jocesta .. ... . ........ . ...... Barnard Joel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Thea . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Chet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Judy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Syracuse Steve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .. . Nancy .. .... . . . ........ . .. Syracuse Monkey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Pongo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Great Neck Dick , .................... . .. Barbara . . ... . .. . . . . ........ . V/ellsley Freddy ................... . ... Jeanie . . .... . .......... . .. . .. Albany Paul . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sue . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn Bob . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sandy . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Chico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Merle . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn Bernie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ruthie . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn College Stu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Arlene . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CCNY Eric . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PPK •.••.•....... . ...... . ... CCNY Bob . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Buffalo He . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Her ......•............ . . .•. Heaven Bruce . .. . ..... .. ... . .......... Jean ................. .. . . Skidmore Stu ... ......... .. .... . ....... Joyce ....... . ........... · U. Buffalo Ger. . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Les . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . NYU Lance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bobbie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . Bronx Joel .... .. ........ .. ... . ...... Beth . . ....•............. . ... Bronx Steve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sue . .... • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wingate Bob . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn Izzie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Judy . . .............. ,. New Haven Car.! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shirley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Syracuse AI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . Betty . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Syracuse The Kingfish . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . Jessie ......... , ....... !Mamaroneck Ronnie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sam . . . . . • • •. . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . State Lover . . . . . . . . • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . Myrna . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BU MS • .•. . ..• . .• • ...•... . .• . •. . •. SP .. . ...••..................... BU Brud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Annette .. . ......... - .. . . . . . Skidmore Pete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kitten . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . Smith Eli . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sue . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . Cizy Arnie . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . Karin . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Kahhp .................... .. . Carol . . .. . •........ New Yol'k City Marbles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Usual . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . Way Out Steve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joan ....•• • .. . . . . . ......• Wantagh Gary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Doris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore BETA THETA PI Lee K. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . Betty . . . . . • • . . . . . . • . . Albany State Budka . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . iiDvie • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. Rose Wilson , .. .. .. .. .. . . . .. . .. .. . . Betty .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . Cortland State Kenney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . Carol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scotia. Casey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gay . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • Skidmore C. R. . . . . . . . .. . . . . •. • . . .. .. • • Joey , ....••........... Alfred Tech Dinno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . Rita . . • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scotia Dentz ............. • . . . . . . . . • . iianne . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . Trenton State Ansel . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . Joan .....•...........•... Skidmore Seeley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Suz . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • Green 'Mt. Koke . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . .. Mary Lee . • .. . .. . . . . . • .. . Schenectady Sanimler • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . Marian • , • • ••.. , . , , ...••.•... Albany Reynolds . .. . . . . . . . . • . . .. . . . . . Jane •. . ................ Green fMt . Meager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gail . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . Round Lake Sczupak . ..... . ......... . . . . . .• Judy . . . . . . • • . . . . • . . . . . . . Green Mt. Brown . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . • . . . Sue . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . Scotia Patton . . . . . . • . • . . . • • . • . . . . . . . Cathy • • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . R. I. T. Carocari. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sandy . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady' Kaz . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . Deloria . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Semo . .. . • . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . Mary Jane .. . . . . . . . . . . Oneonta State Kirchgasser . . . . • . . . .. .. . .. . . Joyce • • • • . • . . . . . . . . . . .. • Green Mt . . Ferry . . . . . • . . . • • . . . • . • . . . . • . . . . ? ..••• • . • . . . . . . . . . Oneonta State Torpie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Patti . . • . • • . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Meszar .... . ...• • ... ·. . . . . . • . . DoJ:?-na • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . Sehenectady Randolph .. . .........•..... . .. Wzfe . . . . . . • • • . . . . • . . . . . . Schenectady Marty ..•....••...... · . • . . . . . Marty . . . . . • .. . . . . . • . . . . Schenectady Hotaling ............ , • .. .. .. . . Ardi . • . • • .. ... . .. . .. .. .. .. .. . Scotia Lawton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . Barb • . • •• • • . . . • . . . • . . Schenectady Hulbie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . Bicycles •..•..........•... Las Vegas Lonergan ..... . . ........ . ..... Nancy ..................... Hartford Whitson . . • . . • . . . • . . . . .. . . . . . • Carol • • . • . • • . . . . . . . . • . . • Green IM:t. Kos . . . . . . • . • • • . • . . . . • . . . . . . . A Deer .......••.....•... B~kwoods Boots ......••. ••• .••••.. , . Horny Dog • • • . . . . . . . . . . . • . Jay Street

. Page Four friday. February 21, 1~958 f.HI <DELTA THETA f-----~-~-----------------------~----~-------1. . . : : Good Food Without Frills j Carlson ............ .. ...... The Phoney ....... Everywhere, N.Y. • t ·SUlly ......................... Teaoh ...... • ..... Bill Smith School • t Walter-Call-Me-Jim ........... Marta ............... Wemple, N.Y. ' :, NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT 1 1 : Foobar · · · · · · · · · · · · ·' ·' • · · · '· · · Gail · · · · · · '· · · · · · · · · • Albany Sta:te Kano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . Sully . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 'Swegy . State t t Cocozzo .. .. . .. . .. . . .. . . .. .. .. The Nun .................... Vatican t THE OLD RELIABLE : Crumb .............. -. Charlotte McGovern ........ Sesonal; N. Y. l · t Gramps ............. ~ . . . . ·Granny Moses . . . . . . . . Sunnyview Home j FOR OVER 60 YEARS j Sweets .. · ........... - ...... · Renata · .... . ............ Oops, N. Y. , 1 t Pap ish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . The Whipper . . . . . . . . . . . Goober, N. Y. '12LS STATE STREET CAFE • OJ 6-9527 I, Hazz II ............. - ..... Mary Barrff .... · · · · · .. . Smoothy, N. Y. 11 Nick Navy . ...... . ... - ... · . ·. · . B. S. • • · · • • • ........ Buffalo, N. Y. : 1 SCHENECTADY,N~ Y. REST.- FR 4-8917' 1 , . Heim ...................... Helen K ................ Spastic, N.Y. Soph Huber ............. Barb Faulisi ............... . . , N. Y. C. , t Gimp .............. , • , . .. .. . Crutch . .. . .. .. .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. Ellis --------~---------------------~--------- : Clod .. _ ..................... . Eva Braun .... · ....... Yattkee Tavern Cocktail Lounge! formerly known as the Phi Delt Cage --------------------------- AT UNION . IT'S THE KAPPA SIGMA I. FRATERNITY I · Marshall ......... , _ , . . . . Mrs; Marshall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . City Hose · Nose ......... . . . ......... N · ozzle ................. Palsy, N. Y. Dune Dweller ..... - ........... Arab .. . . · · · · . . . . . . . . . . Little Egypt Cavoli ............. _ ..... .Anna Mangany · • ... Bochagaloupe, Italy Nell'ch ............ _ ... What-Me-Worry-Girl ........... Mad, N. Y. Mack .. . .. .. . .. . .. • .. . .... . .. Janet .............. Numbsie, Mass. Meyers ........... , • , . . . . . . . Wretched . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Mic .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. • .. . . . . .. .. Jeanne .................... N. Y. C. De Pass ................ - ...... S. G. . ... · . · · .. , . . , . . . . . . . Skidmore Fergy . ; ... , .....• , _ ,., • . • . . • Linda Usher . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Townie Mr. Bank ................. Petunia Pig ............. 'Phartt, N. Y. Fatty F. . ..............•...... Harb . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany Walmsley ..... , , ..•. . ... - ...... S. H ... · . · · · · ......... , .... Sin ICity Abernombie .. . ........ . .. Mira Kalikack ........ No Values, ;N. Y. Peter .................. - . . . . Allison ........ , . . . . . . Peyton Place Harlow ................ -.. .. . Mikie . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. · Ellis Island David .................. -.. .. . IrJSh ............... Necktie, N. Y. E. G. D. III .......... _.. . Linda Lovely .. . .. .. . No Sm.ear, N. Y. Gleason ........... . .. _ . . Esther Costello ........... Braille, N. Y. Hourcourt ......... . . _ . - ... Daisy Mae ...•. , ......... Hood College Sven Edlund ......... _ Miss Sweden, 1940 .. , . . . . . Pomona Beach Sangster ............. _.. .. .. Mrs. S. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . Shhh, N . Y. S. Tucker ........ , ... _ .•. Fondly Carole . . . . . . . . . . . . . Quaker City Kopec ................ _ . . . . . . . . Stella ..••.••...•... Streetcar, N. Y. Swede ....... . ....... - ... . . The Wife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . US.AF, N. Y. E. Ziller ............ -·- .. ..... Zorch ............... Medusa, N. Y. Zate ............... ··- ...... Mrs. M ............. .. ...... B. D. T. Diamond Lou . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . Sally . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scotia PHI SIGMA KAPPA Walt ...............•.•........ Cris .................... Hyde Park John B. . . . . . . . . . . .. ... .. . . . .. . . ? ....... . ..•.........•....•..•.. ? Hal L. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wifie ....... , .......... Long Beach Gus ...................... . . Anne Marie .. . ............. Guilderland Terry .............. -.. .. .. .. Natalie ............... Albany State Mark .. . .. . .. .. .. .. • .. .. .. . .. Diane .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. Russell Sage Roland ..... . ............... Roberta ................. Glens Falls Don ................ - .. . .. . ... Joan , ................. Russell Sage John P ...... . .. . ... - ........ . . Harge ....... . ....... Ithaca College Pete ............... - .......... Barb .................. Albany State Howie ............. - . . . . . . . . 'Christa .... . ..•..• , . . . . . . . Skidmore Tony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . Ginn,y ....... , •..•....... , Skidmore . Dick M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . Ellen . , . ....... , ...... Albany State Bob J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lefty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ithaca · College Bob M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New· Rochelle Jon Me ......•.•.•.•........ Evelina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elizabethtown Bob B ......................... Joan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Schenectady Jim . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Lothar ....................... . . Jake .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. Schenectady Len ..............•..•. - . ..... Ginny ................. , . New Paltz George . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . Ba1'b's Friend ........ , . . . . Albany State Keith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . _ . . . . . . . . ? ... , ................ . •.. , . . . . . ? Dick K. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . ? ........ , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • ? Tom A. . ............ • . - . . . . . . Vera . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cook U. PHI GAMMA DELTA Papas ................ - . . . . . Lenore • . • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Geneseo 1 · Web ................•.•...... Linda ...•.....•............ Geneseo I Chip .................. -.. . . . . Zilch . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Geneseo Bake ...................... . .. Nancy .......... , .. , . . . . . . . ·Geneseo I Mauser . ............•. -. . . . . . . Joyce ........................ Lesley I Stosh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethel ................. Albany State 1 Wiesner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . Karen . . . . . . . . . Mt. Holyoke College I Herman .............•. - . . . . . . . Sue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Liberty ............. -. • . . . . Jeanni B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . D~lmar U. I Wag ............. . .. - .. Long Underwear .............. Skidmore I H-Boo ........• . ...... \ - . . . . . . . . Gail . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore 1 McLane .............•. - . . . Mary Jane .. . •.............• , .. Cornell · I Schlesier ............•. - . . . . . . 'Grace . . • . . . . . . . . • . East Rockaway Robinson . . . . . . . . • • . . • . • . . • . Margaret . . . . . . Col. of New Rochelle I Eck ..........•........ - . . . . • . Wifie . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . • Schenectady 1 Teich ............... - . . . . . . • Shelby . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mildred Elley 1 Fischer ....•........•. - . . • . . . Sussie . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . • Sage I · Miles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Skip . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . Pris . . . . . . • . • . . • . . . . . . Albany State I Bobbo .. , ............ -.. . . • . . S . .S. S. . ..••........... Albany State 1 Fred ... , ............ - . • . . • . . . Babs ................. , . . Skidmore 1 IMaekask . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • . . . Joan ....•............ Schenectady I Dave F. . ........... . - .. ,, • . . . . Pat . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hawthorne I I , !~DEPENDENTS ~-----------------·----·--~ James A. Cole •...•..... Cindy Sugermen • . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany St . • Friday, .Jones~ Gene ,. Dave . .. Brow:ne Mac . .. Arab .• Picker Smitty Franlt: Na}ls . . Tex •.• Carhel' . Pine .. Harrell McD10n: Egg .. Brownr Stork. Brenna Aml>as Zac~ar : Eddy1 Big F1 Little : Red:for Koshel The D vance Phil. Ike .. . Dan cit CuiDm. .John · Max:: Denny Art . Dan. Pau.ll: Hugh Ge~~g Bea.st Gel\J.Y Ste:rU• Kraut Ohucl Oogie Long Gene · John Terry .JIID Pet:e LeVI Jim Hagb Moos Do.n Hags Sli~e: Ch.ip Hune So::x Ron Kenr Step ) Mag• Rich M.l';. Col() Con~ Old B'liz: Soli: Idor E'lvi R;on S.'IIP Slia.: F'~n · :S:ar · ear: a:ar J...ivi Hur Pan Pot :S:ei ,Tim · Csa Lev Gal Lot Sol

1~958 N.Y. School N.Y. Sta:te · . State atican N.Y. Home N.Y. N.Y. N.Y. N.Y. N.Y. Y. C . Ellis · a vern . City N.Y. mgypt Italy N.Y. Mass. !more Y. C. !more )Wnie N.Y. lbany ICity N.Y. Place sland ~- Y. ~. Y. ~ - Y. 11lege :each 'I. Y . City ~. Y. f. Y. 'I. Y. ). T. cotia Park . .. ? each · land >tate Sage fulls Sage llege ~tate nore nore . I tate .lege 1elle own : ady :.ady :ady altz tate ? ? :U. :'lseo eseo :'lseo :'lseo sley tate lege 10re ·u. 10re 1ore nell way . elle ady 1ley ·age :ate tate : ate 1ore ady • rne St. Friday,. , february 2.1. 1958 SIGMA CHI Jones::y •.•..•............. .,, 'Mary Jane ...................... Townie Gene . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . Prls . • . • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Dave : . .. . .. .. • .. . . . .. . . .. .. Miss Shoe • •• . • • . . .. . . . Elmira College Bro~e . -· ... . ........ . .... Vallie lilll . , .. . ............... Skidmore Mac .. - . . .'. . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat ••.•••••. . •.... , Chatham, N: J·. Arab .•....•. . .•................ Ann .. . ................ . ... Skidmore Picker . . . •.........••.......•• Plumb •.•.•••.•..•....... The Grove Smitty . . • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tess ••.•. ; .. , , ••••.•.•• , • . Skidmore Franlt :X ..• . .•.•. . ...••......•. Gail .•.•.••............... Skidmore Naps . . •. . ..•................ . Gina Lola • . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Italy Tex • . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . • . . Sally • . • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . Ozarks Camel' .Driver ............. His Camel ' • . ••..•. . ....•........ Sahara Pine . _ . . . . • . . • . . . . • . . . . . • Nancy Nntts • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Woods Harrell . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · Gladys . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn McDcnald . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . Gladys ....•.... • ...... , . . Brooklyn Egg ..• , . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . • Scrambled • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hunger Brownrnan ............... . .. Mary Jo ... . ............... Diamante's Stork _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mildred Midget .............. , . . . Circus Brennan . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . Cam Bigue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Keene Aml>assador .. .. . .. .. . .. Barbara Leaky ............ , . .. .. . . Sink Zacearia; ............ . ...... Arizona Ann ................. Newburgk Eddy Bear ..• . ...... . .... His Basketball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gym Big Freebs , ............. Little Norma .............. Plattsburgh Little Freebs . . . . . . . . . . . . . Big Norma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Plattsburgh Redford · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Strongbox . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 'The Safe Kosher . .. • . . • .. .. . .. • .. . .. .. . . Didi • .. .. . .. . .. . Hotel Schenectady The Dancer ......•.....• .Tudy Wentworth ............ Green Room Van()e ......... . . . ........... Wet Feet ................ Poker Flats Phil .. . ...........•.•. . . . ..•.. Barb ..•.•............. Plattsburgh Ike ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . MaiDi .. , • . . .. • . . • . . . . . 'White House Dancing. Bear . • . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . Sne ..•.••••.......... Russell Sage Cutnm.ings . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . IModrey • . . . . • . . . . . . . C. E. Building .John- •... , • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . • . . Gladys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn DELTA UPSILON Max:: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cathy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Denny- . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . Spring Street ' s Best . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Art . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . .JoAnne .......... . . . . Manha:ttenville Dan ... ....... . .... . ......•... Naomi . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Paal IC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • Paul's Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany Hugh- II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Susie • • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . U-Conn. Ge()~ge ....................... Nancy •..................... U-Conn. Beast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beauty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . G. M. Ger-ry . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rita ......... . .... . .. . Albany State Sterile • . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . Zwartje ................. ·Green State Kraut .......... ••o:t:•••...... Joanne .................... The Spa Chuck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 'Val . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • Skidmore Oogie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . Dianne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. ' Rose Long ...... .. .................. Date ............... 'N. Y . State (?) Gene . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . Chief ................. Albany State .John ......................... Gail . •... . ...• .. ...... . ... Skidmore Terty . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . Sharon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . Skidmore Jitn • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . Lucy . . .... .• ...•. Huntington, L. I. Pet:e S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . Lo-Anne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn! ! ? Lew . • . . • . . . . • . . . . . • . . • . • . . . . . . Di . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . Home .Jirn . . ........ . ..... . .....•. Paul's Date ....•............ See above Hu.gh I. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marianne ............... Albany State Moose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Do-n • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marylin . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . Albany Hags . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . Sharon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany Sli<les ................. \Miss Matter of Fact\ .. The \Frigid\ North Clllp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Huntington Hungry . . . . . . . . • • . • . • • . . . . . . . Candy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ward 8 So:x ..•....•....•••• , . • . . • . . . . . Judy . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . Buffalo Ron . . . . . • . . . . . • • • • • • • . . . . . . . . Sheila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Kenn ..................... A Blind One ............. U. (never) C. KAPPA ALPHA StEphanois • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . Suzie .. , •. ..•.....•..•.. . . .. . , Vtiqa Mag<>o . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Harrison • . . . . . Greenwich, Conn. Ricl:t . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . THE Blonde . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Setauket Kr, :Moto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tokyo Rose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • Dia.Illante's Col!>-radan ..............•. . . D. 0. A ......••.... . .... T. B. Ward Conaway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kim . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • Hollywood Old · Jumbo . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jan ........•..•. Mosher Memorial B'lizz - .......... . ........•.... Way Out . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Texas Solly . .. . .. .. . . . .. . . .. .. • . . . . . Claire . . .. . . . . Colonie Grade School Idongo , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . A. D. A. . ........•... . . Tennis Courts E'lvis • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Old Y e!ler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady R:on . • ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Blackie . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . Ask George S.'Up erman . . . . • . . . . . . .. .. . . Lois Lallie . . . . . . . . . . . . . Havana, Cuba Slla.rky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carol ........ , . . . . . . . . Schenectady F'En - elli ............ , ..... , Amee Franee • • . . . . • . . • . . . . . . Beazyville 3arney Oldfield . . ....... Mary Forgoo.sen . . . Sarah Lawrence Col. C;at•l I. ....................... Lucille .......•..•...... Vatican City IIal\dwick • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . ? . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ? I..ivingston . . . . • . . . . . . . . . Miss Rhinegold . . . . . . . . . . • The Brewery Hand-Rubber . . . . . . . . . . . . Six-Foot-Two ...•. , . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Pancho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . Kate Smith ••••....... Pleasant Valley Potter ................... Prom Trotter ......•........ Cittadino's Heineman .............. .Johnny Walker ..•..•.•..•..... Scotland .TinibD • •• , ••••••. • •..•. . .• Beazy Schmitz ...•..... Nazareth College .Csa.ba .. .. . .. .. . . . • .. • .. .. Four-Fingers · • .. • ... .. . .. .. • .. Wyliev:ille Levesque ................... Neon Sign ......... , .. .. Nott. Terrace Galusha .... , .....•.• , •...... 'Spook ............•. , •.•.. TJp Above Lott .................... The Continental ..•...... Cape Canaveral Bob! . . .• . ........ . ......•. Kai Weimaraner ..•..•... ; ..•... Germany Page . five POETRY THANKS A cliicken in . every pot; a bottle for every sot, a . rattle for every tot, vote for me. Thanks a lot. I'll build new roads. Vote for me. Thanks loads . I'll build new schools. Vote for me. Thanks fools. You want your slice, I've got my price. I'm new but I'll get the hang; Vote for me. Thanks gang. -Paul Freundlich A SWAN A swan, swimming in the water then pausing, stopping to feed from a charteuse plant. Thou art not beautiful swan ; You're graceful movements are inborn, not conscious why are you worshipped? A . swan swimming iil the water to oblivion. ......:Mordecai Braunstein 0 Letters We Never Finished February 11, 1958 Dear .Sir, We feel that Ray 'Mullane DELTA CHI Hemlock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lili Marlene . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . Amsterdam Ape . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stick . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 'Toga Vic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • Malicious •••••. . .............. Vassar Klutz . . .................... . Nebbish ... .. ....•......... De Bronx Hank the Terrible . . . . . . . . . . . Ginger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Amsterdam Skip . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . Kenmore Dee Vee . . .. . ... .. ... . . .. ..... Ela:ine . . ........•......•. Amsterda.Ill Clomp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Donna Abbey . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sage Caesar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ellen I. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Flower . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . Barbara Ann . . . • . . . . . . . Oneonta State Casca ..... -.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ruth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oneonta Brutus . . .. • .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Clem ............. . New York City Ho-do-ro-no ......... . . .. ...... ~illy ....... . ....... New York City Pecunia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lulu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rochester Pontius Pilate . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ellen II . . . . . . . Farmingdale Grange Pinocchio . • .. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . Pinucchio ........... , ... Albany State Leader ... . •................... Beth . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . Skidmore Plebis Parvus . . . . . . . . . . . . Gaudemanda . . . • . . . . • . . . Cooper Union Cassius .... . ................ No date ..... . •. Strictly from hunger Swede . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vera Ekberg . . . • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . Obio Sad . . ......................... Sack . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . Setauket Sleuth .................... . .. Carolyn ................... Wellesley Fortissimo . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . Fire Island . . . . • . • . . • . . . . Farmingdale ................... ················································································~ THE LAUNDRY will be ready WEDNESDAY . ~-································································································ i••••·········································~ • • • • • • • • • • • • a Employment Desired i • • • • a a, : • • • • : Young Man 5 • • • • • • E Preferably Ne . ar Wcrter : • • • • : (References · from small balanced, : : eastern men • s coll-ege) : • • • • • • • • : -For further information : : call MU 3-7778 = • • • • • • • • • • • • ··············································=-

Page Si~ T HE · Notes and Comments ONE of the most famous land- marks in the nation is to undergo a radical change on the first of May, when Rockefeller Center becomes, strangely enough, Union Center. What the name will 'lose in fame, we're sure-it will make up for in euphony. Our man Fri- day brought us this word after a chat or rather, as he put it, a \listen with Carter Davidson, President of Union College, the purchasing agent of the plot which has already passed through that esteemed institution's hands. We met Dr. Davidson in Hale House Lounge one morning last week. Tall, distinguished and a grad- uate of Harvard, Davidson greet- ed us with what we took to be a friendly \harumph''. He offered us a cup of coffee, and noted that Union College, founded in 1795, would be pleased to care for all our needs while we were in Sche- nectady. We learned, in between mustache-filtered harumphs, that Union has planned on the pur- chase for a long time. \With the acquisition of this real estate we will complete our long range ex- pansion program,'' Davidson, known to his friends as Harry, added. The rather Important move was made possible by a grant from the Kresge Foundation. \We were as surprised to hear about the · award as you were,\ he continued. The institution boasts of being a well-balanced college, we learned, and will now be able to provide many new and different sorts of entertainment for its students. The educational facilities of Union Center will be exploited to the fullest. The school intends to maintain Radio Corporation of America's offices there. \Think of the value of a guided tour of the National Broadcasting Com- pany's studios. We will probably use the facilities there to create a new integrating course,'' the good President remarked. Our immediate reaction was, what will happen to dear old Miss Uhllnger and P. S. 35 when she plans a trip to what she thinks is Rocke- feller Center only to find that Union College men are hogging all the tours_ Davidson informed us that our audience was at an end. Wll saw Friday, ; february 21, 1958 \-THE NfEUW ~ · SQUAWK OF THE TOWN him leave, degrees trailing out be- hind him, and we sat back enjoy- ing our 163 year old coffee, con- fident that higher education has no bounds, at least not in Sche- nectady. • INCIDENTAL INTELLIGENCE . (LITERARY DIVISION): One of the leading fa-culty wives is re- ported to be working on a new · novel. Neither its subject nor its title have · been released, · but sources which have proved relia- . ])le in the past, have informed us that both animals, feline and bev- · erages, alc()holic will be discuss- ed by the author. Our well-sup- plied informant also told us that a certain former faculty member, musically inclined, after hearing of the proposed literary endeavor embarked on a tour of the South of France. Auditing? We followed his finger and saw two young gentlemen pour- ing over a translation of the Beowulf. \They're auditing the course,\ our friend · informed us. \This used to be a course in !Chaucer . We had close to sixteen people in it. Nobody was auditing t · hen . But everybody dropped the course. I mean, I'm still here, and so are they.\ We followed the finger again. But no one else is here any more. I guess the room looks sort of empty. It's a horrible feeling to attend a class in so large a room. I mean, it's good to have the advantages of so small a faculty-student ratio and all that stuff, ·but they really should hold the class in a small seminar room. It looks so empty, doesn't it?\ We assured \OUr friend that the room did look em1pty, as we sol- emnly nodded affirmatively. \I suppose you want to know why everybody dropped the WElLE wandering through course. Here, take a look at _Bailey Hall the other day, we am- this.\ He thrust a mimeograph- bled past the open door of room ed copy of an assignment sheet 201 and spied five people scat- in front of us. \See an exam tered a,bout a portentious trian- every other week. I mean, that's gular table that had the capacity a lot of work if you stop to con- for seating at least thirty more sider that most of us have at students. Wondering w'hy the least four other courses. And administration of a small bal- what exams! I mean, the ques- anced college had provided so tions he asks! I guess you have large a triangular table for so to understand Professor Murphy srnall a gathering, we entered . though. He believes that nobody A young man occupied with has any intellectual curio!!ity any- the lighting of his cigarette look- more. Maybe he's right . Of ed up in our direction as we made course, there are exceptions. I our way toward the apex of the mean, I must have some intel- table. lectual curiosity, or else why \Auditing?'• he questioned. \I would 1 take this course for mean, no one takes Professor credit? He's a hard marker, too. Murphy's course fol.\ credit .. That He doesnt like to give out many is, almost no <Jne.\ high marks. NO\body gets an A Assuring the student that we · hardly. Almost nobody gets a B weren't taking Professor Mur- either. But then I guess you have •phy's course for credit, and that to understand Professor Mur- we weren't even here to audit it,· p-hy.\ we asked the young scholar why A hearty, vigorous gentleman so few people were seated around strode boldly into the room. the table. \That's Professor Murphy,\ \Well as I was saying, nobody whispered our friend, as he open- takes ProfessOJ' Murphy's course ed his notebook to an em:pty page for credit. Well, I do, and so do and poised his pen in anticipa- they,\ , he said, extending his tion. Professor Murphy laid his adolescent finger in the direction oxblood briefcase at the base of of a middle-aged woman and an- the triangular table and searched other young man of his own age, hastily for something in his coat \.but no one else does. I guess pocket. We discerned the some- you don't know Professor Mur- thing to be a box of Vick's Cough ]ihy. He's a fine lecturer. No Drops, and he popped one into better man to teach a course in his mouth. the English Renaissance any- \He always does that,\ said our wheJ:>e. See those two people friend. \He must have been a over there?\ heavy smoker once. Substitu- 1 lion of ha:bits. I never took any psychology but I guess that's what you call it. He eats about five or six each period. Watch.\ We did. We tallied eight. Cloak and Dagger WE braved the sub-freezing temperature and-near gale wind · s the other day to have a chat with Bill Ketz. We had become very interested in the Ray Mullane scandal and wanted to learn more about it. The Knower of Many Fathers g:r;:~:~tEld us condescend- ingly but warmly. \Have a seat, boy,\ he started, \what can I do for you.\ We asked him about •Mullane, but it seemed that his knowledge wa.s limited to fathers. \You'd better speak to Mullane himself,\ he whispered. We pro- tested that we hadn't the slight- est idea of where to find Mr. Mul- lane. Ketz beckoned us closer. \He was still down at the Union Inn when I left,\ he said, hinting that we leave by picking up the phone to order his wife's grocery list. Relighting our Little Jiffy hand-warmer, we wended our way out of the gym, pausing only to pass the time of day with Mrs. Crabb. The Union Inn gleamed a bea- con through the blinding snow. When our eyes became accus- tomed to the gloom we spotted Mullane at the far .corner of the bar, glass in hand, casually enter- taining two young ladies of the type usually perceived in the Union Inn. We dreaded the thought of interferring with such a beautiful triangle, but since satisfaction a:llegedly brought back the curiosity-killed feline we approached the balding lothario. Seeing us, Ray said adieu to the young lovelies, patting them on their well-shaped bottoms. Signalling the bartender for two more, Ray motioned us to a near- by stool. Mullane proved an interesting man to talk to. Extremely well versed, he told us of his plans to build a moat around Union, why the basketball team lost to Ver- mont, and his views on the Red China situation. After a few more drinks had wetted our gullets, we prompted Ray to tell us about his early days at the Flushing A. C. We finally approached the topic at hand. \Ray we began, \What prompted your resignation? No- I , , i. I ' , . I 1 . Friday, . body se < sons.\ :wound ling thl MullanE casting recti on lowed: fired.\ A d · l'l OVE: v\lcdnei doesn't Short ~ Dol1 KAR the DE the otl: plan~ drive. con vic · for u~ cantril blood bodies all th~ that a give :J ing- tl attitUI compl one, \ ' I wer • blood why t ~ivc t t~nequ phic pints in or figur1 day , \wall ~ I me Cl'£'<1 well. Cul WJ the f Unio noon prisE rush cent • Men: ' Ct: this gett i ing' v. all mar in it ::it giar. of hap ; Sf gre1 one of of 1 wal to to ::he ger. as iOl'i chr so !'Pa se~ Cl'E eVI att he of In( t01 go se • wi sti th

958 . ny Lt's mt h.\ ng tds ith !ry .ne 1re ny ld- at, do • Ut lis rs. ne .'0- lt- ll- 3r. on a.g he ry fy 3-y to rs. · a- w. IS- 3d b.e lr- b.e he h.e Jh ce ht ve io. to m IS. 1'0 . r- lg ~11 to 1y •r- ~d re ve .is c. ic a.f o- i . I ' I · I i i J . I i ' Friday, February 21, 1958 body seems to know the real rea- sons.\ Pla.cing his right arm nrouncl aur shoulder, and signal- ling the bartender with his 'left , Mullane drew us close to him , casting -a furtive glance in the di- - rection of Union College, he bel- lowed': \Resigned hell. I was fired.\ • A d · rall character, Mr . Mullane . OVERHEARD in Bailey Hall VVcdnesday: ' What Blodgett doesn't seem t~ realize is that th~ Short Story is Davidson's course.\ Do It Yoursel.f Dept. KARL MEYERS, president of the Delphic Society in:ormed us the other clay of his arganizations plan!.: for the Impending blood drive. \We realize,'' he said with conviction, \That it's not propel ' for us to ask an individual to contribute his blood . I mea·t. blood is something sacred. Anti · bodies, enzymes, leucocytcs, and all that stuff are personal. things that an individual doesn't want to give away. We're not condemn- in)!,' the student body for their attitude . ln fact. we understand completely how they feel. I, for one , would feel the same way if I were in their position. But the P.loocl drive must go on. That's why the Delphics have decided to give their own blood in a gesture t;nequaled altruism. Each Del- phic has pledged to give four pints of their own blood. Not in ane sitting , mind you. We figure that a pint every other day won't be detrimC'ntal to our health and the cause is the thing. I mean , blood is something sa- ct · ed Dncl · r we can do our parl, \\'ell , we'll do it. Our pal't.\ Culture Haven WANDERING aimlessly through the frozen grounds of picturesque Union College the other after- noon, we were pleasantly sur- prised to see the student . body rushing en masse to the cultural center of the campus ·- majestic M e morial Chapel. ' Curious to learn the cause of this intellectual awakening, and getting colder with each succeed· ing- step on the snow covered VI alks, we happily entered the marblE' columned ediface. With- in its ivied walls might very well :;;it America's future intellectual giants. We were anxious to learn of today's stimulating and per- haps esoteric discussion. Sadly enough, the scene which greeted OUI' wondering eyes, was one of great confusion. Clusters of people were grouped in front of sheets of paper posted on the wall. Finding ourselves unable to push our way close enough to purvey t,he contents of thC' Rheets. we inquired of a young gentleman standing next to us as to their valuable messa!l'e. \It's the new seating plan. Sen - iors don't have to go to no more chapels in the second semester so everybody else gets a better ~Pat. If you don't sit in the right seat, you don ' t get no chapel credits and then you gotta go even more times next semester.\ \What -if a senior wishes to attend in his final term? Isn't he permitted to gain the benefits of a chapel program?\ An incredulous look of amaze- ment spread across the :;;harp con- tours of his face . \Nohoctv ever goes if he don't have to.\· That seemed to settle thP matter . Not wishing to be critical of our in- stitutions of highe1 · learning in t - his age of com , petition with Rus- sia, it would nevertheless seem to us tha:t mare of · the \knowledge for knowledge sake\ might be instilled in aur yeu.th. Seating ourse'lves in a . raN re- cently vacated by seniors, we no - ticed a crew-cut, bayish leaking man weave his way to the plat- form. Dressed in a gray tweed jacket and charcoal slacks, h e seemed the epitome of the ivy- • league approach to Ji.fe. After working his way through , with no small amount of diffi· culty, we might add, a series of announcements, the eminent gen- tleman turned ta the main body of his a:ddress. J ona:than B. Pearson, III, Director of Admis sion.s, spoke convincingly of th e college's .admission policy. To our way of thinking, th ~ highlight of his sp i rited talk came when he announced that the · col- le g e, despite rumors to the con- trary, stiH desires people from the Bronx High School of Sci- ence. We returned to th e icy · wal:,, much elated. Colleges, at least 'Cnion College, arc prepa:recl to meet th e e ducational crisis of the clay. No longer are they solely interested in the captain of the football team or the co-chairman of the high school junior p · rom . They are now willing to admit ~tuclents desiring to l e arn. We made a note in our diary to re- turn to the 163 year old balanced college in three or four years to find out if any senior, of this new breed, is attending chapel cyen though he is not required to. Narcotics Anonymous PROFESSOR we know was telling us the other day, that Eli- phalet Nott, our early temper- ance-leader prexy preferred nar- cotics to alcohol. \Nott stated his reasons for these preferences\ · our friendly prof told us, \in a series of not unfiery temperance lectures about the middle of the last century . \ Waving an old not unyellowed, but huge <and, we suspected heavy) volume at us menacingly, Prof continued \Nott preferred narcotics to alcohol because when he took them, he suffered no ill effects. There is, as my .colleagues in the Bio department will tell you , no damage to the organs of the body that are ordinarily harmed by over-concentration of narcotics.\ \Nott ever the scientist, con- cluded that narcotics were harm- less, a.nd actually . did him good, until he went off them. As my colleagues in the English depru , t- ment · can tell you, narcotics are only harmful when you take them away. For this reason, Nott made sure to maintain a large supply of the drugs in his home , a nd was not infrequently known to have shared them generously with some of his favorite stu- dents.\ After pondering this for a while, . we left our Prof to wave his book, menacingly, in his of- fice at the east end of the cam- pus of the 163 year old Liberal Arts and Engineering 'College. • WHILE rummaging through the papers on 'C:ai'ter Davidson\s desk, we came across an item, which to us , seemed of special in- terest. Halfway down the second pile was a seemingly top secret plan designed !;pecifically to appeal ; to thE' ~pirited trustees of the 163 year old liberal arts and engi- neering college. The yellowed Page Seven KAPPA SlG : MA Dal · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . · . · . . . Linda · . · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Mac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jane . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Caz' Ted · · · · · · · · · · · · · · - · · · · ...... · . Gail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Tut · · · · · · · · · · · · · · - · · · · ...... · Doris · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Syracuse Pike . . .. . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... Joyee ......... . ... . .......... Mass. ladd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nan ..................... _ . . Lowell Nye . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Barb ......... . .. _ .... _ . . ..... Ellis Gz:an . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... Diane Payst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Wmdy · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . · · Mer · · · · · · · · .... . ......... Skidmore Brown . .. .. . . . .. . .... .. . Harr.iet W.heeler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Syracuse Larry · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . .. · . · B. H. · · · · · · · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Jeckei ..... ......... . . .. Betty Anderson ... ..... .. . Peyton Place Ed Ruth . . ... .......... .. . Selina Cross .. . . . . . ....... . Glens Falls .Skeeter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sh~ron . ... . . . .. . White Plains Hasp. Harry Hart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cilia .... ...... ... .. ..... . U. Conn. Oley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jody ...... . ... . .. . _ .. .... Yates u. Fuller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Coxie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wheelock Seward . . ..... . . . .... .. . Barbara Sutcliff .. ... ... .... . ... Skidmore Riekard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ga:il W. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Dick Squillace . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elaine ..... . .... .. ... ... Lynn, Mass. \Vatson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sharon ...... ... . . .. _ .. .... Skidmore The Squire ......... .. .. . The Squiress ..... ......... ... Skidmore Mather . . ................ Marni Reddig . ........ . . .... . . Skidmore Jim Wahl . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Sue Jacobs .. .. ...... . ... .. .. Skidmore Al Hotz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gina Lollobrigida . . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Al's Roomie . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sophia Loren ..... . ....... Albany State Ozzie Wilmot ........... Brenda Young . ............ , . . . . Cornell Bill Reama:n . . . . . . . . . . Libby Van Arnam ........ ... , . Northville Sam .. .. . ... . · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . . . . Pat ...... · · . . . ... . ... Albany State Tram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gert Daley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hyde Park C~ · ist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tiz ' Snyder . ............. Albany State BIB Marx . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 'Carolyn Morreale . . . . . .. . . . Cortland State Ted Detmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diane Ackert . . . . . . . . . . . . Poughkeepsie John Welch ... ... ... .. . . Rose Stingone ... . ........ Poughkeepsie Houli . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Big Sue ...... , .... N. T. Elementary Muench . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat Healey . . . . . . . . . . • . Cortland State Myndy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diane . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Auburn Dick Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann · Guam .................. Skidmore Steve Kutz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Syracuse Bill Tolf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Les Evans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cornell Skip Pott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marty ......... . . , .... , Schenectady PSI UPSilON Bria:n .. ... . ... ... . ... ... Diane Johnson ........... . ........ .Toya Roger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . \Suzy\ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sage Jack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dizzy-Izzy . . ..... . .... , . . . . . . . . . . Sage Hush Pu.:J • PY . . . . . . . . . . . . Chick Wicked . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Euphoria Nevin ... ...... .. . ... .... . Vulva Shmidt ......... . ........ N. Y. C. Baldwin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann Schuyler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore ~atthews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Daulphine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Herkimer Warner ... . .. ..... . ... . ... Jean Bean ....... . . . ... . . ·Oneonta St. Dirk ...... .... .. . . . .. ... .. .. Aleda . . ..... . .. , . . . . . ....... Yezzi's Yannes ... ... .... .. ... . .. Ham-an-\D\ .......... .. .. Oswego State Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. And Chain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . N. Y. C. Cigar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lana-Lynne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vitalis Propherio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Molly ....... ... ......... . ..... ·Sage Elwin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mike's Sister . . ..... . ... . .. , . , . . Elmira Lazer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat Pulpud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Angelo . . . ....... .. .. . .... . '\'Vee Shawn . . . . . . . . . . . . Southern Tier P. G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. Elaine . . . . ... ..... ........... Albany Hall . . . . . . . . . . . ....... .. Nancy Frigate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Boston Viets ...... . ..... . . ... - . . . . . . . Viets . ... . . ... ... . . .. . West College Heideman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lilly Marlene . .. ...... . . . . . . . . . .. Berlin Jacobitti .................... B. Rest . . .. . ........... . . Steamroom Campbell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann Davis .. . . ....... . .... . Green Mt. Jet French .................. Conrad .......... . . . . ... ... . Sagenik Cameron . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . He1·b H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fudgy U. Dadio ..... . . .. ........ . ...... Momio . . . . . . . . . . . Blackboard Jungle Zaccaro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Paisano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Luigi's Schuman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Helen Porfnan . . . . . . . . . . . Ho-ho-ho-kus PHI SIGMA DELTA .I: van . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Lubitz .. . ... .... . .. ... . .. ... Deanna ............... Albany State Roger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ruth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Maybrook Eppie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Squirt . . . . . . . . . . . Some Snow Drift Arty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Dave ..................... .. . Nancy . .. ... ......... , .... Skidmore Wollms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jackie . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Simmons Pete ............. ; . . . . Julie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Doc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Sid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ft·an . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Syracuse Finkus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Judus ..... ... . . . .... ..... .... Sagus Goldy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elaine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mt. Holyoke Dave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fudge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sna.ck Bar Joel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Dick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mickey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Troy Baum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sylvia . . ........... Schenectady, Ga. Bones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gremlin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Meistersinger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . P. D. . .. . . . .......... . .. , . . . . . Sage · Ct·usher ..... ... . . ........ Judy <Mrs. C.) ... . ......... . ... .. WHSN Roden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Someone . . ............... Somewhere Sponge brain .. .... .. . .. Lady Sponge brain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Alan-a-dale . . . . . . . . . . . Juvenile Delinquent .. . . Petei ' Pan School Roth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bunnie .......... ; . . . . . . . Boston U. Berks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Etta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rye Liebs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elaine .........•............ Newark Arnie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rena ................... ; Skidmore

Page Eight visit P . icturesque SCHENECTADY -Schenectady Chamber ()J Commerce ·---------------------------------------------~ t I I I : You owe it to yourself to eat at I I I : FLEISCHMAN•s I t I I Union College I I I I I ~---------------------------------------------~ FERRO'S RESTAU : RANT Special.izing in ltalian·American · Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar Free Parking PIZZA Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Save on Phil's own Brands PHIL ENGLEHARDT'S L · iquor Store 51 I Union Street Q.tnurnr Published Frida:ys during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Scheneatady, N.Y. National Advertising Rep- resentative: · National Ad- vertising Service, Inc., College Publlshers Repre- sentative, 420 Madison Ave., N.Y. C. EX 3-3110 Editorial Offlce,Washburn Hall, Union College, Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette .Press, 334 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class · Mall Matter; subscription lOc a copy; $2 a year delivered any- where in the United States. SENIOR BOARD DA:-.:11!:1, :,.;, l'API!;H:\'IK '5~ ........ Ill 6-995!• ........... E<litor-in-l'hief HOBERT J. KE:\'T '5fl ... .... . ..... Ill ti-M89 .. .. ... .. :llanaglng Editor :IIORDECAI B. BRAl\:\'~Tr;I:-.; ·;;~ . FH l-03 x : ! .... ... .. 1Ianaglng EditOI' :\l!CHAI-:r, J . :~o;:-.;zr;H '5~ .......... FH 7-4713 .... .. .. Rusines~ l\lanager HTgFA:-: 1'. f;TEI:-.: ';;!• ......... . .. J,:x :1-11!1~:! . . . Asso<'iate Editor JAMI~H 1<:. 8\\'A:\' '5~... .. . . . . . . . . Ill ll-6RS!• . t'nlltrihutlng ' Edit())' KE:-.::-<ETH 0: HA~SO:\' '59 ........ Fit l-1855 . . . . . . !\op;~o· J•:<litor JUNIOR BOARD Lynn Ratner '60 ...... .. ..........• • •......... Assistant I•\eatures Editor Paul Wollman '60 . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .. Research Editor Joel Kupersmith '60 •. . .... .. ..... . ............•• Assistant News Editor Richard Sobol '58 ••..........•...................•..•.. ; Activities Editor Peter Goldfine '59 ........•...•......•..••.••.••.••.•. . ••..• , Art Editor Mark Krugman '60 ... . ..... .. ... . . .. ... . .... .. ..... Photography Editor :ltirhael Rapaport '59 .. . ... . ........... . .. , . LnPal Aol·ertif'in!r :l.lanager Peter Steinglass 'HO .... · . .. • . . . • .. •• .....•... . • ,.... !Ro-UP Hports r:rl1tor t,an~e Barash '60 .. .. .. ... .. .... .. Xntinnal A<jl·et · ti,ing :vtanag<:>r Hic'haril Huss 1 wk '5!• . . . . . . . .... 1 ~nmpu\ < 'ir<'ulatinn ;\1anag<:>r ('0:\Tilnll TOHl'O ;\lytoll Ilud;hnltz. Hnht'Il • · :al, · in. Honaltl \YPII>~teill, StetJheu ;t.lnunPI'lllan : Friday, February 2 : 1. 1958 \ He!!) w'net\e \'a ~a:~ dqmn S{'C\C.ECI\\ot\ ? \ paper outlined a plan for tearing down the . grotesque round build- ing smack dab in the middle of America's first planned campus, and replacing it with a $100,000 hockey rink. Davidson returned before we could peruse ali the details, but we couldn~t help thinking this attempted deemphasis of schol- astlci·sm pt•(}mised to be the big- gest venture on the Union cam- r;us since Ellie Nott ran his now famous lottery. Fame ana Fortune? HO·W important to a college is its name? Consider. Some days ago, while attempting to make our way up Union Street during a mildly ferocious snow storm, w;> stumbled upon the meek fig- ure of a man hiding behind one of the stone posts of Payne Gate and carrying several suitcases. We recogni~ed hi'm at once. His name was Cecil Byers, and for many years he taught physics at Union. As we wondered for the reasons behind his apparent de- parture from the college scene, he addressed' us. \Is · it still snowing?\ We as- sured him that is was still snow- ing, as · he nervously brushed a white flake from his nose. \Teacher is leaving,\ he said . ' ' Teacher may not know too much, hut he knows when to leave . \ Cecil Byers . or teacher, as he is called affectionately by many, was a lean, meek little man, who appeared to be some- what petri fled by the snow. His shoulders were stooped by the weight of his burden, as he spoke to us in a mild . squeeky little voice. \Yes I know when it's time to leave. See · this?\ he ordered, as he thrust a shiny gold piece of jewelry befot·e our eyes. \This is a Phi Beta Kappa key. Teacher is Phi Beta · Kappa. you know. Teacher teaches physics. but he won his P:hl · Beta Kappa key in French. Teacher speaks · French. But teacher is leaving. Yes. he is leaving.\ We calmly received this last bit of information as best we knew how. and allowed him to continue. \Do you know why teacher is leaving? Teacher is leaving bec . ause he is fed up with being at a school that nobody ever heard of. Who knows of Union College? Nobody but an intelligent Jlorson has ever heard of it. And nobody is an intelli- gent person . So teacher is going away to a school that everybody has heard of. Teacher is going to tea.ch at Hillsdale · College.\ · We stood solemnly at attention as we watched Cecil Byers slowly rr.ake his way down Union Street towa · rd the railroad station, bent under the weight of his suitcases. \Yes teacher is leaving,\ we heard him mumble as he stum - bled down the thoroughfare, his lean fingers lovingly cat·essing his Phi Beta Kappa key. - - -0---- Twenty inches of snow is ex- pected to fall on Schenectady to- morrow and Sunday. The addi- tional accumulation will prevent al! forms of transportation from leavin~ the city . \Vt''ll wait. - The Union Star Feb. 2l. 1958 * * * Take advantage of W2GSB's message handling service. Deliv- ery anywhere in the United States. For delivery within 12 hours, drop messages in the slot of the door to W2GSB. -Union Colleg~ Chapel Announcement \V f' '11 stick to pigeons. * * * WORLD ILLITERACY HIGH M:ore than two-fifths of the world's adults cannot read and write any language. -The Times Strikes dose to home. Friday , Jonatl a butto with a tie that loose nee us In h for an our sea son rel and vi ters oil light i' sa.Jne : Union'~ We hal on.t:he '(he rei type M \The J there 'V noneth alert, shaven see in : added too, of the cr 1 cigare1 MAR1 If 2 no do1 face c motto becau: indeec son f: Pears• memb ba.ck himse the c: One who · refurl home : and\ tion their posit! Libra prese the I ton,' ture. Pear: ed o prob1 sa:lar some Fr · child tune : necb way~ to S ter : land and fam i whe : $cot time his wee : \I foot \bu1 not guil pen . pon line ThE eve : the nev a~ er,' adr ed ,. en! sor an• asl

58 ......... - [ li- ng dy to on · Iy : et nt :s. ve n- tis lg x- o- li- :1( m !'s v- ~d 12 ol lt IE' td :s Friday, February 2:1, 1958 PROFILES The Casual Collegian Ill Jonathan Pearson III, wearing a button-down blue oxford shirt with a ·black and red speckled tie that was almost too casually loosened at the neck, greeted us in his office not too long ago for an interview, After taking our seat, we watched Mr. Pear- son relaxedly reach for the red and white flip-top box of fil- ters on his desk, take one out, light it, and lean :t>ack in the same swivel chair from which Union's applicants are surveyed. We half expected to see a tattoo on · the bac~ of Mr. Pearson's hand · (he reminded us so .much of the type Madison Avenue has dll!bbed \The Marlboro Man\) but, alas, there was no tattoo. There w&-e, nonetheless, the same handsome, alert, heavy-'bearded yet close shaven features of the men we see in magazines and on TV. And added to the illusion (minus tat- too, of course,) was the fact that the crush-proof container for the cigarettes themselves read- MARLBORO. If a ·tattoo had obeen visible, no doubt it would have been the face of Minerva along with the motto of the Schenectady school, because the Union tradition is indeed deeply etched on the Pear- son family tr€e. Not only was Pearson's great-grandfather a member of the Union faculty way ba.ck in 1932, but Jonathan III himself was born not too far from the campus in 1920. One year later Pearson's father, who was a physician, decided to refurbish the barn of the old homestead (now on Seward Place and 'Visible from the Administra- tion Building) and move from their •J}revious house which is op- posite the Schenectady Public Library. Jonathan's brother, presently a purchasing agent for the Lone Star Steel · Co. in Hous- ton, was born in the newer struc- ture. Remembering his brother, Pearson notes, \My brother bust- ed out of Texas A&M and he probably earns three times the salary I do. That might give some people satisfaction.'• From the time of his early childhood, Jonathan III's for- tunes led him away from Sche- nectady several Urnes but he al- ways seemed to gravitate back to Schenectady-and Union. Af- ter a stay in Baldwin, Long Is- land, where · l;!is sister was born and his fathet· died in 1931, the family journeyed ba<!k to Sci;>tia where Jonathan went through the $cotia school system , At thlll time the depression had set in; his mother's job paid only $18 a week. \I was an end on the Scotia football tea.m,\ Pearson reflects, \but my greatest triumph was not a triumph for Scotia. I was guilty of h<>lding for two 15-yard penalties in one game. Our op- ponents advanced to the one yard line and pushed over for a TD. They won 6-0,\ be laments. But even more vivid in his mind is the time he edited his high school newspaper. \I had always had a yen to · be a newspaper report- er,'• confessed Pears\}n, who even admitted that he once had print- ed a paper for his block. With tbe polished grace of one engaged in '}lersonnel work, Pear- son paused, lit another Marlboro, and asked if we would like to ask any questi<>ns. We did. \Who's t'hat dog curled under the table behind you ?'• we ven~ tured. \That is TLp,\ we were told, a dog who is supposed to be a pedi- greed 'Beagle. \But as any dog critic will tell you,\ -cautioned Pearson, \he isnt even a Beagle.\ Tip 1 who is the greatest of bud- dies with Art Lawrence's Eppy, has the unusual distinction of be- ing the only dog Helen Jenkins (of Bookstore fame) has ever liked. \She brings him a bone every two or three days,\ we are told. Pearson .picked up the thread of his story again and revealed that he almost hadn't . gone to Union !College. \Both my grand- fathers and dozens of uncles and cousins were Union graduates, but I considered going to the schoOl of journalism at Syracuse University.\ Two factors swung the prospective journalist to choosing Union. One was fra- ternity rushing (Sigma Phi, his father's fraternity, pledged young Pearson)_ \In those days you coU:ld pledge a fellow three year's in advance,\ Pearson commented. The other factor was Professor Burgess Johnson, now an Emeri- tus Professor of English, who quoted a number of successful newspaJp . er men in a paper em- phasizing the benefits of a lib- eral arts school such as Union. \I wasn't too nice to Professor Johnson in my undergraduate days,\ Pearson noted. The Eng- lish professor, it seems, housed a wooden Indian in what is now WRUC's AP ticker room. \We stole it one night on our way back from the Union Inn and put it in a bed in the Kappa Alpha Lodge.'' The Indian eventually found its way into the college pool. Pearson's comment: \It warped the Indian.\ The greatest influence while attending Union for Pearson was Milton Enzer, then head of the college's public relations staff. \I and the others on the Concordien- sls staff had fun at Milt's ex- pense, but we learned much from him. I remember my writing ex- periences .......... - .. . \ In the midst of his reminiscing Pearson broke off. We were not to know just how roue}). fun had been had at Enzer's expense un- til about 20 minutes later, be- cause the tphone rang, interrupt- ing the interview. The call · brought news of a minor catas- trophe. Pearson remained on the phone for about a minute and then broke the startling news: \My young son is marooned in Diamante's.\ Young Jonathan Pearson \the IV\ (or Junior, if you prefer) is only six years old. He had been · skiing home to Nott Street across -campus with his older sister Judy, and had been somehow misdirected into \Eddy's.'' Jonathan Pearson \the III\ and your faithful reporter bundled off into the family's blue and white Chevrolet station wagon and made the prolonged journey to N ott Street to retrieve the young- ster. \He'll know his share of the local <!ha:racters before he . goes to Union,'' · said the elder Pearson who ·hopes his son will attend the alma mater of virtu- ally all tbe Pearsons (females ex- cluded). Several agonizing minutes later \the IV\ exited from the bar, followed by \the III,'' followed 'by the hulking figure of Butch, the barkeeper. \The III\ tossed the , miniature skiis, poles and \the l'V\ in the · back of the sta- tion wagon, which was already strewn with folding crib, and powder blue baby blankets. \He was drinking tea in there,\ we learned from the elder Pearson. \The IV,'' whO is a bright, cap- tivating child, gave a detailed account of l:low he had become separated from his sister. When his father's station wagon ceased running while turning into the Pearson home at 628 Nott, the youngster said, wryly, \This car always stalls.'' In a short while we were inside the Pearson home, a mod- est gray three storey structure, one of the campus faculty abodes. Mrs. · Pearson, a •pleasant woman was introduced to us as we in- terrupted her mealtime chores. Two more of the four Pearson <!hildren, the two girls, were watching Freddy Freihofer on the family TV set. The fourth child was sleeping peacefully on the couch, undisturbed by the col- lective Happy Birthdays being sung by the Freihofettes on the screen. We trudged up to the Pearson study on the third floor, a comfortable room with a brown throw rug in the center, a desk with a dictaphone on top and a row of bookshelves piled to the <Jeiling. A wicker rocking chair was brought in and we set our- selves down. Milton Enzer, we learned, was a demanding person to work for. Besides, Pearson wrote for the Gazette as a campus correspon~­ ent. Paid 10 cep.ts a column inch, Pearson averaged $21 per week as a contributor. The best days were when the Dean's List and Graduation List were :published. At 10 cents an inch, a sizeable sum could be amassed on su<Jh occasions. Leaning over copy one night, Enzer received a hotfoot through the deviltry of Pearson's cohorts in the Concordiensis Office. En- zer was enraged, much to the delight of the staff. On another occasion The Concordy held a \carouse a party held once a year in an empty rented room. To prevent the newspaper mem- bers from getting too rowdy, En- zer took an unfinished keg of beer and placed it in his car. Much to the public relations di- rectoz~s -consternation, the keg of beer was retaken from the car when the floorboards were push- ed up. Enzer was rather angry and mystified. But it was un- der Enzer's leadership that Pear- son ultimately became the assist- ant sports editor · of The Sche· nectady Gazette in his senior year of college. Two days after graduating , Jonathan Pearson III, ciass of :1942, was drafted into the army. ''You know,'• Pearson says in retrospect,'' I think that people who graduated in a time of stress, as I did, developed a . greater feel - ing for the college. Memories of college helped to sustain me through the war.\ After a seven month jaunt in the field artillery, Pearson switched over to the Aviation •Cadets. Trained as a navigator, he finally joined his brother in a European tour of duty. ·On his third mission Pearson, as well as his crew, were shot down over Luxembourg. They walked to a village near Paris where they spent three months. The whole period spent in France was gruelling for Pear- son w'ho secretly has been work - ing for quite some time now on Page · Nine a \fairly lengthy treatise oil my experiences In the Fren-ch Under- ground.\ Finally, on D-Day, June 6, 1944, Pearson, after · spending time in various parts of France, was moved to a camp near Cha- teau-Dun where . he remained hidden until mid-August. · The camp was near a German am- munition dump. \The French people used to say,\ mused 'Pear- son, \that the Germans were too stupid to .Jook under their noses . \ Once · back in the states, Pear- son flew in the Air Transport Service, and them went to Phila- delphia, when out of the service, where · he worked for a w'hile for the Associated Press and the now defunct Philadelphia Rec- ord. Albany Law School occupied the \III's\ time for a time now, but the \IIJ\ didn't make it through. Simultaneously Pearson received offers from GE in personnel work a.nd from Union College, his beloved alma mater. After much consideration Pear- son chose the job with General ~lectric. Later, on August 1, 1950, Jonathan Pearson III became the a . dmissions director of Union College, a post he has held ever since. -Lynn Ratner DARK dark dark dark dark dark and gloomy is the swamp, the swampy swamp dark gloomy stifling. six spotlights split the swampy swamp and there is light. -Mor~ecai Braunstein L. G. BALF01JR CO. Fraterni~ JelVelers BADGES -:RINGS -FAVORS JEWELRY LEATEER - GIFTS STATIONERY - PEOGRAMS CLUE FINS - KEYS MEDALS - 'rBOPJID!S- Write or Call CARL SORENSEN 171 Ma.rshall St., Syracuse,N, Y. Phone Granite 5-788'7 Union's Leader in Cleaning & Shirt Laundering BALL•s INC • 224 Not+ Terrac:e 016-3456 Special 1 Hr. Cleaning Service 7 Hr. Service on Shirts

P~ge Ten MUSICAl EVENTS Versatile Virtuoso The other day we droppect in to visit that most versatile of men, Leonard Bernstein. When we arrived , we found Mr. Bern- stein conducting the orchestra in one of his compositions while playing the piano. The moment he perceived our presence, he waved us to his side. We were afraid that we would distract him from his musical labors · but we reckoned without Mr. Bernstein's great versatility. He continued conducting the orchestra and playing the piano , while carrying on a conversation with us in his slow measured cultured voice. We asked Mr . Bernstein what his plans were for the coming year . He told · us that the Phil- harmonic would present a varied program. The major portion of their work, however, w<mld center on the . compositions of a well known American composer. \And who is that?\ He turned from the piano, a surprised look in his ;--------------o-------, I I I I : The l I I I I : End Pad I I I I I I I I I I We Serve 1 I I I Chocolate Covered l I Ants I I I I I : I ~---------------------~ · \·----------- .. I I I I I I I • 0 u = .... Ill ~ ..,~ ,., ~ 1.., I I I I I I I I I I I I ., II: 0 E a ·- a 0 !:0 ~ w :I: V) u: c _. 0 z 0:: < I I I I I I I I I I I I r.----------~- .. · eyes. \Why myself,\ he answered. Our tete a tete was interrupted ' by a florid individual who rushed up, handed Bernstien a pencil and paper, telling him he needed a little ditty about our new satellite. Leonard looked up from the piano. \Glad to oblige you any- time, Sherman.\ That is the kind of man Leonard Bernstien is . He continued conducting the orches- tra, playing the piano, and carry- ing on our conversation in his slow , measured cultured voice , while writing the ditty. We asked Len if he ever took any time off. \No he sighed, \I'm do i ng so many things, .there is just no time.\ For instance this summer I'm traveling to Pat- agonia to act as guest conductor of the Patagonian Symphony Orchsetra.\ That is the kind of man Leonard Bernstein is. Our tete a tete was a:gain in- terrupted, this time by an ema- ciated individual who rushed up and handed Len a bag of peanuts. To our astonishment, this versa- tile man . did a graceful head- stand on the piano stool, and · commenced · popping the whole peanuts in his mouth, masticating the nuts, then spitting out the shells. \I'm working up this little act for the Ed Sullivan Show,\ he in- formed us. As we left, we felt that we bad gotten to know Lenny, that most versatile of men, real well. He said goodbye to us in his slow, measured, cultured voice, still conducting the orchestra, playing the piano, writing the little ditty, while standing on his head spit- ting peanuts. A shell or two spat- tered us, but that was a small price to pay for genius. -Paul Freundlich • Keith Doyle, Varsity Football line coach for the past three years, has been appointed head football coach at Union 'College in Troy , N . Y. -The Wesleyan Argus, Jan. 17, 1958 Well The state is right. • Members of a British television panel dined well, and then learned that the menu included garden snails, sparrow pie, and fried dahlia bulbs. -The Gazette What? No chocolate covered ants? • ORIGIN OF BANANAS Bananas, now a prime product in ICentr:i.l America and the West Indies, are believed to have come originally frotn Asia. -The Herald Tribune • So did the flu. TEQUILA A FAVORITE DRINK Favorite drink of Benito Juarez, a national hero of Mexico, was tequila, a drink made from a desert century plant. He added to this a dash of orange juice, then a liberal portion of hot red chile pepper. -The Times We prefer Scotch on the rocks. FridQy, . February . 21. 1958: \He's a B. :M. (). C.\ THE A I R Radio Revisited Having watched the last west- ern type hero of the evening fade off into the setting TV sun , and since nothing else but a choice of movies of rather ancient vintage remained on this town's video channels, we decided to try that neolithic means of mass com- munication, radio. We had thought that radio had gone out with dresses that-left- something-to-the-imagination, but to our surprise the first thing we heard upon tuning In was, \Radio is bigger than ever!\ Now this surprised us to no end, as we had not · heard of any FCC scandals lately in the granting of radio licenses. This called for further investigation, so we turned the dial another notch. The next sound to greet our ears seemed, although we're not sure, to consist of a piano on which only two chords could be played, and those with monoton- ous regularity; a drum or drums beating out some fantastic rhy- thm; a guitar, which is not a posi- tive identification, and a voi.ce shouting a series of uninteligible sounds in time, more or less, to the background. Our first thought was that we had managed to tune in on a broadcast of llJl !lJl,Cient African tribal ceremony; but this idea was soon dispelled by a somewhat mellifuous voice inter- jecting itself as the noise faded out. The voice informed us that this recording, as it turned out to be, was now number six in the area and IClimbing rapidly in popularity. Ah, yes, another great American contribution to world cultu r e. But before we could follow these thoughts further, another voice interrupted with a boom- ing, \Bulletin! Bulletin! Bulletin! A **** news bulletin!\ This seem- ed interesting, so we quickened our attention; we were sadly dis- appointed. The expected shatter- ing news consisted of the fact that we had quite ali. accumula- tion of snow, which anyone could observe by looking out the win- dow. But we would be posted on further accumulations as they happened. Apparently this was the best that could be gleaned from the reports of over oue mil- lion correspondents reporting by radio, telephone, short wave radio, carrier pigeon and pony express. Such editorial acuity. Then some \singing\ group oeame on serenading the weather- man, begging him to give his guess as to the weather outlook, and putting In a plug for the sta- tion at the same time. Immedi- ately thereafter, there was an- other ditty ext<llling the fame and talents of some group called the Fabulous Five. We never did get to hear one of their records, even though we listened for quite a while . The same mellifluous voice re- turned. We now would have the pleasure of hearing one of the top ranking records, as chosen by the audience of the most listened to station in the Tri-City area and the Great North East; some- thing about a flop. But first a lucky social security number, fol- lowed by a lucky house number, both preceded by the appropriate sound effects, followed by a com- mercial. Then the big hit dis- chorded over the s~fering air waves. Cultural development was set back another hundred years. This was a little bit too much for us to take, so - w~ . tu~ned the dial some more. Would you be- lieve it, but soon we ' ll be having color radio. This should prove to be a rather exciting experience. For the life of us, we just can't see how they're going to do it. Color TV is still a drug on the market, but what about radio now? Will it be compatible color, or will we have to buy a con- verter. At any rate, it's coming soon folks, so hold on. In the meantime you can train your par- akeet to speak those magic let- ters - - - and win a fantabulous prize! Back to the music again. This time we get two for the price of one commercial and one station plug. First is The Walk, followed by The Stroll. If they keep nam- ing them like this, pretty soon we'll have 'Due Stumble, then 'l.'he Stagger and finally The Orawi. Following the completion of these two gems, broadcast in plain old (Continued on Page 13) friday, ON ill WolfE in lOVE Wolf F. were r usually pleasan moved suburb politica . prospei gzmda . nances . returnE greetec gave 1 and s< puttin~ their · • return • by La1 'jHU I someti coyly a pa ! bootie \Y-1 Ivan, b-b-ba \Ye : tasha. Life Ivan His f rema.J Fritz , a pol and learn his c celeb and l that drin~ She and ' Ivan prorr. way take sian J:iave was seve succ Frit : gim• the Iv spol shif' be ill noU wor bus · to f and his to l to i pas mo : tiOT Fri par cus Iva his ha< to lea fOI we of Wl sp 1 a ag Cs in• tii w: dt sll di ul I\i .. ....

•Y :>, s. p .s t, L- i- l- d e t n a , _ e e 'I :l 1 . - ·, e r g ) Friday, February 21, 1958 Page Eleven FABLES : FOR OUR TIMES ONCE upon a time, a Sjberian Wolf Hound named Latasha fell in love with another Siberian Wolf Hound named Ivan. They were married, as roost lovers usually are, and after a brief but pleasant honeymoon in Insk, they moved to their new home in a suburb of Moscow. Ivan was a political writer, and enjoyed a . prosperous career writing propa- gemda for the 'Ministry of Fi- . nances. Every evening when he returned from work, Latasha greeted him with a moist kiss, gave him his pipe and slippers, and scurried about the kitchen, putting the finishing touches on their · dinner. One evening, Ivan returned home and was greeted by Latasha with his usual kiss. \Husband dear,\ she said, \I've something for you.\ .And she coyly took from behind her back a pair of baby blue knitted booties. \Y-Y-You mean,\ stammered Ivan, \that we're going to have a b-b-baby?\ \Yes husband dear,\ said La- tasha. Life took on a new meaning for Ivan after he learned the news. His fellow-workers at the offitCe remarked at his unusual gaiety. Fritz, a Saint Bernard, who was a political refugee from Austria and Ivan's closest friend , upon learning of the good fortune of his companion, insisted that they celebrate. Ivan called his wife, and like a true husband told her that he intended to stay out late drinking Vodka with his friend. She cautioned him to be careful, and told l:).im to enjoy himself. So Ivan and Fritz left the office promptly at five and made their way to the nearest tavern to par- take in an evening of true Rus- sian debauchery. As fate would I:iave it, the Inn that they chose was one whi.ch was frequented by several young Bolshevicks. They succeeded in showing Ivan and Fritz the evils of the :Czarist re- gime, and in time swayed them to the side of their cause. Ivan, upon returning home, spoke to his wife of the recent shift in his political ideology. She, being a true home-maker, knew nothing of the affairs of the world, but only cautioned her husband to take care. Ivan began to frequent the tavern quite often, and soon was inviting several of his new Bolshevick acquaintances to his home. Latasha found them to be pleasing individuals. Months passed. Ivan became more and more absorbed with the revolu- tionary talk of his companions. Fritz had long since ceased to partake in these dangerous dis- cussions, and often cautioned Ivan to be on his guard and cease his subversive activities. But Ivan had for'med his ideals and refused to change them. The 1Czar had learned from his Secret Police force that revolutionary ideas were being entertained by several of the brilliant minds in Moscow. While the Bo'lshevick movement spread, the Czar wa.s organizing a Special Secret Counter Espion- age Service, under the head of Csatuka, a merci}ess and shrewd individual. Time passed. Latasha felt her time drawn near, and soon a child was born. It was a boy, and was duly christened Cartuka Davidin- sky. The son grew. He read pro- digiously and developed a partic- ular liking for the shert story . Ivan and Latasha aged too . Many (With due respect to J. Thuiber) of Ivan's friends were caught and executed by Csatuka, the ruthless head of the Counter Espionage Service. But Ivan still remained unsuspected. During the day, he wrote for the Ministry of Fi- nances, and long into the night he dashed off pamphlet upon pamphlet of revolutionary mate- rial. Finally, Csatuka fell on his trail. Ivan learned of this through the underground. His first con- cern was for his son, the young Russian Wolf Hound, Cartuka Davidinsky, and his wife Latasha. He decided to send them to the young democrllicy across the sea, America. But Latasha refused to leave her husband. However, pas- sage was secured for their boy on a transatlantic steamer. The boy tearfully bid his unhappy parents goodbye, and with fifteen rubbles in his . pocket, . set out for the new world. That very night, a knock was heard at the door of Ivan and Latasha and they were car- ried off by Csatuka . Nothing more was ever heard of them. Cartuka spent his voyage lean- ing over the rail of the ship. It was his first time at sea, and the North Atlantic in winter is no time for a young Wolf Hound to make his maiden voyage. In time, the boat docked in the great eit:V of New York. Cartuka walked a.cros.S the gangplank, an<t was met by an !migration official who suggested that he Americani2e his name to Carter Davidson. ' 'J.'he young Wolf Hound followed his suggestion, whereupon, he deci'<!eci to take a train to a small indus- trial city with a climate like :tba.t of his homeland. A travel agell.t recommended: Schenectady as an ideal spot, and . there Carter- w-ent. Not wishing to be recognlzedl. !).y any of his countrymen who · mffgbt have emigrated to America, b.e grew a mustache as a dl:sguisoe. Carter immediately began , to .edu- cate himself in the language aBd customs of America, and read avidly . He still possessed a Jll!..l'· ticular liking for the short stm·y, and read all he could lay . · lkis hands on. In time, men lea:rned of the amazing intellectual abil· ities of the young Wolf !fl()UII.d, and he was offered a job- as an instructor in Union 'Colleg-e, a small balanced school in ~e heart of industrial Schenectady . Darter taught the short story. ·Rapid.ly, he was promoted to the iJOSitton of Assistant Professor, then .Asso- ciate Professor, and finaUy, F'u.J[ Professor. Carter was taken :al()ng' as an aide on several fund-raising campaigns, and presently, his fund-raising abilities were real- ized by the administration of the college. An administrative post wa.s given him. He became the Director of Publicity for the school. His ways with finances were miraculous. Obviously, he had inherited some of his father's financial genius. From time to time, Carter's thoughts strayed to his native land, especially when he sat in his study with a V()lume of Tolstoi in his hand. He .Jo~ged for news of his mother and father, but in time, his moods of nostalgia disappeared and he · devoted his full attention to his work at Union. One night, at a . faculty square dance,. he met a young secretary named Capitola, who came from a long line of pedigree cockerspaniels. It was l()Ve at first sight. Carter's career at Union proved to be a tremendous suooess. Fin- ally, some years ago, he was ap- pointed president of Union Col- lege, and he moved to the presi- d.ent's dwelling on Terrace Lane South, where he live'd With his wife . and child. Moral: Education in America is going to the dogs. TASTE IN BEER! Jenny's got it • .. the bright taste in beer! Quickest way to cool a thirst is a cold glass of Genesee. Its brightness comes clear through to your taste-refreshing, satis- fying. Je:qny is brewed for today's taste$,_with · a lively flavor that stays bti,gnt:' ~11. evening long. So next · tima you rt!l4l-:l4 < • at borne or friendly tavern, treat your thirst to the bright taste in beer-that's Genesee! :3

t I \ i Jt~9~ Twelve SPORTS Barefoot Boy While romping across the col- lege campus recently, we hap- pened to notice a strange .specta- cle, or at least an occurrence slightly out of the ordinary. A short, youngish fellow, with a sort of he-roan build was wan- dering down the steps near to where we stood. His w'hi te trousers indicated that ·by pro- JOB AVAILABLE The growing Toms River (N. J.) School is employing for September , 1958, several K-6, a few 7·8 and several high school teachers. If you like the seashore resort area along with a · be- , ginning base salary of $4,000, contact Clyde W. Slocum, Superintendent soon. ' Financial credit is given for men or : women who have completed military or : previous teaching service. MR. CLYDE W. SLOCUM Superint<>ndent of Schools Toms · Rivor School, Toms River, N. J. STOWE'S POPULAR SKI DORM THE ROUND HEARTH There's nothing like it! Join In the delightfully casual fun of Ski- land's most unique, popular lodge. Live dorm style ••• $5.75 daily, $35 weekly, 2 meals. Fa- mous circular fireplace sparkles huge dine-dance area. Lounge, game room, Fun galore! Fine food, good beds.Write: Folder or Tel. STOWE, Vt., Alpine 2-7223. fession, if on~!- may .. be~g;ener.QU.S enough to lapel it )·P.a , 1he was a life. guard or possibl 'a cook, although either would have cor- responded to his physkal appear- ance. He wandered aiip.lessly intQ the sp.ow dri:llts mings any sort of jacket and his facial e]!:pression seemed to indica;te, ;:tt least in our opinion, that he was d~ed. Now, we are not expe1ts on hu- man behavior, however, some- thing about this fellow struck us as. being to some extent ab- normal. It was not one of those things that just strikes you right in the . eye. Possibly, how-ever, it was because he was almost barefooted with only flimsy can- vas shoes on his peds that led us to our conclusion. Then a .tall man with gray hair and dressed in a charcoal suit came limping down the stairs to enter the scene of this non-his- tory making story. He stopped at the edge of the road, shaking his fist and yelling, \Hold on Mullane\ repeatedly. Now it is our guess, although we could not hear exactly what transopired, that the big livid man wanted to help our poor misled soul. You know, the J. F. Dulles type; gray, large, bespectacled and pompous, who could serve as Kiwanis Santa Claus for the homeless orphans. We would render . the opinion that he gave the barefoot boy some encour- agement because he turned around, although for some strange reason, the younger man showed no signs of appreciating the ' big humanitarian. The man reached into his pocket and gave the barefooter a hand- ful of change. We must admit that we almost shed a sentimental tear. How philanthropic can a man be-and out of his own pocket. The barefoot boy, al- though we really hate to mention . this, looked at the coins and then laughed in his benefactor's face. He turned in his tracks, without any sign of gratitude, and walked crisply away! Mighty handyl that 1 s the ARROW wash / · n' wear Glen Save time-anytime-with this Dacron* and cotton Wash 'n' Wear. Just wash, hang up to dry and wear. You'll look smart all the time in the Glen's Mitoga®- tailored lines. They give you that trim, tapered look, collar to waist to cuff. Just $6.95. Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. *Dupont's polyester fibr• ARROW,., -first in fashion ~.J'idayi- February 21. · l-958 Person,all~ we take a dim view ,glon}eration, but that this f · ine of that )<ind of he4avior. ,mel- ; . t~ had sailed through an en- lows like th~t don•t~deserve sytn- tire schedule without sacrificing . pathy, b;:trefoot or not. All facts a single · contest. considered, it seems to us that This fact has been interpreted the lad P';'Qba.bly .. didn't belong by us 1 at least to a certain extent, at college m the fll'st place an«;l. as a very distur.bing paradox. We his tJ~~pe. will disappear When the are unable to decide in our minds: .Anlerica.n frame looses its i:rn- whether or not the success of the P?rta~ce on the . campus. . Win- faculty in this venture is a sign mng IS an archa1c value · ln ath- of the encouraging preservation letics, .to say the least. of muscular endurance on the We cannot begin to sum up part of the American middle-aged our feelings for that · big kind educator,. or the distressing physi- granddaddy. We are almost cal deterioration of American tempted to say that a person college youth. . whose heart is big nevez: gets We prefer, although . this is ahead. However, we are 1n no merely personal opinion, to ra- position to philosophize, not that tionalize .the situation and ap- we would anyway. We · can only proach the matter from the side hope that the kindly gentleman's of the faculty. We see their ac- good deeds do not . go unrecog- coinJplishment as a fine tribute nized. to alcohol, nicotine and sex. We do hate people who are un- These tables of the Ameri<lan cul- aop . preciative, although we do feel, ture seem to have produced a possibly out of sympathy, sorry superior breed of man who im- f~r the barefooted boy. Beneath proves as he ages. This of course his anger we saw a deep ·hurt would be in accord with the and a dedicated heart. He had products which cause these ef~ that si-mple look w'hich so often fects. accompanies deception although we are probably only searching for the good. Being, most likely, not smart enough to care, he ob- viously didn't realize that not everyone can stay in college. ----0---- Faculty Folly Volleybal! is a sport played by 12 men trying furiously to thrust a medium\sized orb across a rela- tively altitudinous net. Six men are placed opposing the remain- ing six and the object of the sport is to so 1place the orb · as to make it impossible for the other side to return it. Due to the exces- sively large amount of territory which has to be patrolled by each team, the game becomes one of great sltill and endurance. Because of this fact, we were very surprised to discover from Art Lawrence, mastermind of the intramural advancement associa- tion, that the volleyball intra- murals at the college had not only been won by a faculty con- Although interrupted by fits of nicotine coughing, they continued their victorious path in contest after contest. Although slack- ened by alcoholic muscle fatigue off the court, it seemed only to stimulate their coordination while on the field of friendly strife. As for sex, any attempt to calculate its importance would be merely a presumption on our part and it is only a personal opinion any- way, if we may be so bold as to suggest it. Thus we should like to salute a fine breed of men, their con- tribution to the college athletic scene, and the American way of life which made it all possible. A LOVE STO!RY Harold loved his hippopotamus, And he said that even though it was big and fat and ugly it was better than a lot of us. And when people aslted him if having a dog or a cat or a para- keet wouldn't be cheaper. Harold said he couldn't help be- ing his hippo's keeper. So be went to a psychiatrist to see if he could get rid of his unusual infatuation, But the psychiatrist said loving a hilp.pqpotamus was perfectly normal as long as he didn't carry it out to procreation. But nonetheless. even if Harold's passion was somewhat ineffect- ual, At least his hippo was a female and that proved beyond a shadow of a doubt, with posi- tive certainty, in fact. that Har- old was heterosexual. Poor Harold would always, he said, love hippopotami, never thinking for a moment that this was SodO!DY, Anon. Union \College was the only col- lege in the tri-cities area to re- main open yesterday following the worst snow storm in the past 53 years. Carter Davidson, presi- dent, after emphasizing the im- 'POrtance of non-conformity said, \Rules are meant to be kept. You give the little beggars one day off and the next thing they'll be crying for unlimited cuts.\~h.e Gazette. Please, Carter, just a little com- passion. Department of Understatement \I certainly wasn't a big man on campus, by any means.\- Jonathan Pearson m. Frid By selle ; view foi'tt unco In re othe : The a fe it i: the it. pOp-1 of ' non: our St nar: Pos dirt vat! cha the in sev , cha pro ins ' · yea nee is COl: me a' In< ] wo thl ex: Hi se: ve U}: sk re D• of ge til fa tl: in e< eJ fc B a : E y jl f, VI t ·

fine en- l clng ·eted tent, We dndS: ' the sign ttion the ;tged :lysi- ican > is ra- . ap- side · ac- bute se:x:. cul- d a lm- urse the ef~ s of lUed ttest ack- igue r to ·hUe As .late rely and l.Ily- 3 to lute ~on­ etic r of . e. nus, Q it r it l if ua- be- : to his ring ctly dn't old's ect- 1ale a osi- Iar- he lver : hat 1on. col- re- ring Jast · esi- im- aid, You day be The om- 3nt nan , II . . - Friday, Februar.y : 21, 1958 By Love Ptossessed is a best seller but we have decided to re- view it anyway. It i:s indeed un- fortunate that so many g1·oss and uncouth people hav-~ succeeded in reading this book, which might otherwise have ibecc>me esoterie. The novel does, how:ever, exhibit a few signs of sopllistication and it is somewhat suryrising that the low masses ·have seized upon it. Actually, the answer to the popular appeal of t:he book lies of course in a \W()nderful phe- nomenon which exists only in our society: dirty bCJoks. Strangely enough, t<> the ordi- nary unlettered mind, By Love Possessed might se~m a rather dirty . book. But to us. t · he culti- vated, the ·book assumes its true character: it is a delineation of the far-reaching effects of coitus in the character develo:pment of several superb and libidinous characters. The fact the chief protagonist, Arthur Winner, Jr., insists upon raping l!is eighty- ·year-old grandmother does not necessarily indicate that .the book is \dirty.\ This action is of course necessary to t:he develop- ment of Arthur's character. And a wonderful character he is, too! Indeed! In fact, By Love Possessed is worthy of comparison to some <lf the great books of all time. For example, to quote th:e words of Hippocrates, vita brevis, ars longa. But to return to By wve Pos- sessed, which is, as we said, a very dirty book, we · must insist upon a comparison of Dostoev- sky and Cozze:ps. · To those of you readers who are n()t familiar with Dostoevsky (perha.]JS the greatest of contemparary poets), we sug- gest you cancel your subscrip- tion. But all of y-ou may not be familiar with D()stoevsky and therefore we will condescend to impart a bit of worthwhile knowl- edge concerning t-his great writ- er. We first met l>ostoevsky at a folk-music festivaJ in the Cafe Bohemia (to those of you who are not familiar with the Cafe Bohemia, we suggest you cancel your . subscription) . Carmen had just lost his job a,s an olive-slicer for Scandinavian. Imports and was very nearly a.t · t:he end of his tether. It was then that we sug- BOOKS Smut in Hard Covers gested he write his great epic Tropic <lf Capricorn, which has since achieved critical acclaim. This was, of · course, an extremely dirty book. But to return (after our brief lapse into the · realm of the in- telligensia) to By Love Possessed, we might attempt an analysis of the character of Arthur Winner, Jr., . the leading figure of Cozzen's pleasant little book. Winner is a loser. But what he loses is not so important as what · he wins, which though a loss on the sur- face is a win in the long run. The tragic clima:x: is ·brought about by the fact that Winner is so nearly a winner and yet a loser; in fact, the only real los- ers are the Winners, which might seem paradoxical if it were not for the fact that the word \win- ner\ is capitali2ed. Thus, we have a wonderful example of symbolism . {Those of you who do not understand what symbol - ism is, please eancel your sub- scrip-tion). Of course what Winner loses is what makes the novel what it is: a very dirty . book. But to take another tack, we might note the obvious comparison between Winner and Houynhmn (or is it H'Ouyhnhmn. Or Holuhnnunn. Hmmmmm .... ) Swift's Huo'hymnnh is a horse, in effect. This is satire. Win- ner, too, is a horse, though Coz - zens, unlike Swift, has taken pains to show that horses are at least as Ubidinous as Winners . Of course, not all horses are win- ners, even if the horse is of a dif - ferent color. Dostoevsky •points out the same phenomenon in the famous trial scene of his Caine Mutiny Court Martial. Here, Captain Queeg refuses to eat the strawberries which caused the wreck of his ship, the Pequod . At the same time he also refuses to eat the albatross. What is obvious in all three writers is the ·basic perversity of human nature: all three have written 'Very dirty books. But even more obvious is the comparison between Winner and the chief character in Grace Me- dalion's A Man Called Peter. Peter is so like Winner that we might even say that Winner is a Peter of sorts. In fact, if we \Get mu.~h ?\ had not taken the trouble to eap- italize \Peter\ we would have not · only a dirty book, but also a very dirty review. In any case, By l.,l)ve Possessed is a very believable book. At least we believed it, which is the important criterion. If you do not find the book • believable, ple . ase cancel your subscription. To refer to William Babington Macaulay's review of this book, ' Cozzens has \cozened the world by fine phrases.\ It might obe said that Winner is perhaps more of a cozener than Cozzens, who is more of a winner than Winner. If this statement is not wholly . correct, .it is at least deucedly · clever; In any case, Cozzens is hardly a Houyhnhmn. He is not even a Winne. Now, to wind up this saucy re- view, we should mention one as- ·Pect of By Love Possessed which has hitherto escaped other crit- ics. This aspect is Gertrude Stein. Her famous deathbed statement \a rose is a r-ose is a rose is a rose is a rose, etc.\ illus- trates one thing clearly: she was a babbling idiot. Cozzens, too, is a babbling idiot, · but should not be confused with the brook which 'bounds as well as babbles. This is a very dirty brook. -The Idol • On the Air (Continued from Page 10) black and white AM to a com- pletely awed audience, that group returned to beg someone, in vaguely musical fashion, to give them the time, which someone obligingly did. And so it went. We did man- age to hear part of the list of top tunes in the area, to wit: G<lod Golly 1W.ss Molly; Bad Motorcycle, Voom, VOQOJ, VoO!m; Get a. .Job, Yo1mg Dog's <Jallin' but I Oan't Fly and Short Shorts. On this we'l! reserve comment. We dislike making hasty conclusions on such a short trial, but with such obvi- ously fine music going out 24 hours a day, we think we'll go back to Classic Comics . -Ken Hasson Page Thirteen TWEED is back in fashion at the Union Bookstore from $75 Gen. 2: And he rested on the sev.enth day from all his work. And then the eighth day? Alpha Delta :JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllll 1!: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . • = = Police Chief Miller (Of Utica) § you T 00 Can § stated, \I don't know of any un- 5 S lawful conditions in the City of = = Utica, to my knowledge! \ § Get Along §_- As a final example of great _ _ crime detection, Miller testified S E that a .certain disorderly house §_ w·lth == has · been \under observation as a house of prostitution . \ Asked a !!! how long the observation 'had - : gone on, Miller answered \20 §_ Wine I w 0 men E years.\ _ - -Utica Observer Dispatch E a It's good work ~f you can get it. 5 and Song s IN A TEST OF HOW MUCH , S = history .college students know a = a professor at · Indiana University, S af = Bloomington, asked 10 questions S : of 90 of them. Only eight could E: :: identify the Bill of Rights; only E: D E LT A :: four could define a \right to work : :: law; ansl\i · ers on the size of the S E: national debt ranged fi·om $1 bil- E : lion to $500 billion; only 15 came E: c H I E within a few miliions of the pop- = . · 5 ulation of the United States. E E: Eighteen could define a rprogres- E E sive income ta:x:, but, said the : fR.oman Holt.dayJ = pro!, \I'm s . ure the knowledge E: E was gained at home, and not at E S school.\ 5 : - - -The Union Star You don't need history to launch a satellite. - - - - - - - - - - ;Ill IIIII IIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ~



. l 5poflight · ' The Middle · l;ei$t # • 't. .. • I . Fo4lMied at lJ-.itJn . Collve in 1811 SCHENECTA:I)Y, t.l. Y~. FEQR:UARY 2$:. 1:958 Student. Teachett$ Switch .Page 4 · PRICE TEN CENTS. ' I' I j i ~ ! I l . f ' l ,. ! I

2 <trnurnr Published FridaYs during the school year by the Student Body of Union College Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Rep- resentative: National Ad- vertising Service, Inc., College Publl~hers Repre- sentative, 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Offlce,Washburn Hall 1 Union College, Pub- licatlon Office, 'fhe Ga- zette .Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, subscription lOCl a copy; $3 a yea!\ delivered aiJy- where in the United States. SENIOR BOARD llA:-:II-:L S. PAI'EH:-:IK '5~ ......... DI 6·995~ ........... Edltor-ln,CJ:tief MURDECAI H. BltAL':-;s·n~IX '5~.FH 4·0383 .............. ls.sue Editor HOBEHT J. KE!'IT '59 ............. DI 6-6889 ......... ManagmgMEdltor ~llCHAEL J. !o~NZ!o~H '59 .......... l•'H 7-4ol3 ........ Buslnes:;; anager :OTBJ;'A!' P. ::;Ti;I:-; '5!1 ........ , .... i·:X 3-ilV83 .......... A~soci.ate ~~n~~ JA~lES E!. SWA:> '59 ............... DI 6-68~9 ....... Contnbutmg Ed't , ·J·a;;:-.:;-a;TH o. HASSON '59 ........ FH 4-1855 .............. Copy • '01 JUNIOR BOARD Lynn Ratner ·so ................................. Acting Features ~gftg: . Paul Wollman '60 .......................... • ..... • .... ;:R~search Ed't Joel Kupersmith 'GO ................................ Actmg .News Editor · Richard Soboi '58 ................... · · · · .. · · • .. • • • • .. - • Actlvltles Edit or Peter Goldfine '59 ............................. • .. • .. • .. · .. • Art Editor Mark Krugman '60 .................... , ........... • Photo!l'raphyM or Michael Rapaport '59 ...•....•••.•••.. , . . . • . Local Adv.ertu~ng ~~1er Peter Steinglass 'GO ................................ Actmg yortMs ' or Lance Barash '60 .... , .........•......... National A.dvertisJ.ng Manager Richard 11ussaclt '59 .............•......... Campus Clr<'ulatwn a£:·lfer Myron Bueholtz '60 ............................... Assistant Copy ' or Myron Bucholtz has been pro~oted to the position ~f Assistant Copy Editor on the Jumor BoaJ!d of Co~cordi­ ensis. A pre-medical student, Bucholtz ha~ been 'Y1th the newspaper since September. He was a vice-president of ' \Unacoustomed as I run to ptLblic speaking .- • \ The Middle East Lambda Iota social clab. -----Spotlight Long Range Planning This is the first articl:yi;:·~· ~1:~~ this time can mean only Every othel' Thursday afternoon at. 4:30, the Long series which will deal with cur- one thing, that the next step to- . B \I H 11 C rent international problems. wards Arab revolution-a revolu- Range Planning Committee meets rn al ey a · om- Peace in the Middle East, it can tion appc;aling to an idea-must posed of faculty members, the committee discusses topics be safely asserted, is essential for come now. which have an important bearing on the development Of world peru:e. The federation of Nasser is appealing to people, the Colle2'e. Eventually, Chairman Benjamin Whitaker Syria and Egypt and the political not to gwernments, and this is ~ d f union of Jordan and Iraq. may where peace in the Middle East would like the committee to state its standar s or an have a stabilizing affect on the becomes endangered. ''The masses ideal college, the chances of achieving the ideal and the area but, more Ukely than not, ... are moved by Ideas,\ L'Orient chances of resisting pressures contrary to the standard. the Impact of federation will pro- has astutely noted, and Nasser is Q uestions which have been brought up include the ·duce more unrest and tension: telling all Arabs that the grand- The union of Jordan and Iraq eur aJ)d omnipotence of Arabism eventual size of the College and the distribution of under- makes practical sense, for the two can not be attained until the petty graduates by year and by curriculum. In addition, the kings are cousins, both countries feudal dynasties and presidential Friday. February 28, 1958 Letter to tlie Editor To the Editor of CQncordie.miis: Jl.\St recently I succeeded -in wading through .the la.St issue of the college \Idiot known to some as the Idol. [n my judgment, the literary achievements can be thrown Into .six classifications; sexual per- version, sadism, sweet and stim- ulating sketches of heterose:x;uar activity, pathetically obvious and trite allegorical treatments of social evils, and pseudo Intellectu- alism. Had the names of the different writers not ap.peared with each work, the reader would be ·more than justified in assuming that the whole magazine was the crea- tion of t>ne individual. What is the reason for this depressing and sterotyped attitude of the student writer? To achieve literary success, the student feels that he must (!.dopt a certain attit'ude toward life. This attitude combines an abstract form ·of depression with a rather sentimental and .exhila;rating con- sciousness· of the futility and in- justice. of life. It is often carried so far Ulat the young writer sees himself a victim. of uncontrollable forces and succeeds in achieving the desired state of depression. (Continued on Page 4) Sauna in the Snow By Melvin S. Einhorn A. pioneer few, in the temporal, misty week befol.'e finals, urged sau.na, Finland's national institu- tion, to a modestly toned: renais- sance in the yard at. the rear of South College. The event found a ·straggler e>r two, as it occurred with the advent of day; a;nd .these observers found little modesey past the . subdued vocal ejacula- tions of the participants, for only bare flesh showed against. the drifted sn<>w; or sP,ould it be said wlithed .•. ? Sauna is a health bath in two parts, extreme heat .followed by extreme cold. In true Finnish fashion stones are heated, then deposited in a vessel of water which is enclosed with the bather in a stall. Clouds of steam rise to bake him as he lightly palpi- tates the skin with l;>irch e>r cedar boughs, Wl:\en this becomes be- yond endurance,. (according to personal taste), the enthusiast Immerses himself in intensely ce>ld water or snow if it is at hand. The physical value of sauna is der-ived from the hastened and thorough circulation stemming from the twin-temperature shock. After repeated encounters, the body acquires a resistance to ex:- posure. Ultimates of heat and cold are seemingly less .pro- nounced. The conditioned depelid'- ence on excesses of clothing Is noticeal?ly lessened. The typically over-accoutred American, ·)low- ever, if desirous e>f attempting this pastime, should accustom himself through a system of pro- gress! vely larger doses. The sauna cult on campus has modified the original style to suit its needs; Hot showers replace steam. Frictional contact with fresh • snow substitutes 1;or the manual stimulation.· Even the name is changed to apply as a visual description, the Snow- Rollers, Tidy briefs replace the traditional costume of nothing. There is a divergent school of thought concerning ·the motives behind snow-rolling. Dr. Pearce's class in Abnormal Psychology heard of the South College clan and considered It in accordance with his non-directive theme. \This phenomenon (snow-rolling) is an indication and expression of sex:ual frustration!\ was the join1; conclusion of the .group. This reporter regrets !his in~ ability to have audited that ses- sion; '(the result of over-indul- gent sno-w-rollln,g). P ossibility of utilizing faculty and buildings more effec- are contiguous, and land-rich Iraq orders, now ruling other Arab .can well utilize the labor force of states, are <>verthrown. The peo- tively has been discussed. poor, overpopulated Jordan. The ple will listen eagerly, for cer- Suggestions to run the College 12 months a year have chances for a successful perpetu- tainly the we>rds of that great 1~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~1 been advanced. One such proposal would divide the year ation of the union, therefore, ap- \libertarian\ King Saud and those into four quarters. Most students would attend classes pear much brighter than do those of the \enlightened\ Faisa1 can- of the Syrian-Egyptian federation. not match Nasser's orations. three out of four quarters, though some could enter ~n The 'basic question is what Nasser's dream is that of all accelerated program and go to school all year. Since a dif- brought about the marriage of Aral>s-a unified, revitalized, and ferent group of students would vacation each quarter, the Syria and Egypt, which are di- great Arab State (with Nasser as College could increas.e its enrollment without having to in- vided from each other by the sea its leader, naturally). This idea and by Israel, and which have no is a powerful weapon and it will crease its facilities. economLc or material reasons for rapidly begin to gnaw at those Other suggestions would make better use of class- integration. The separation <>f the Arab states which try to suppress room space. Perhaps more afternoon classes would solve two territories and the absence it or discredit its acknowledged · h · f 1 of sound economic grounds for (self-acknowledged) leader. With some of the problems, while departmental S armg 0 C ass- integration would, at first glance, Nasser as its Fuhrer, the idea of rooms may solve others. While the bulk of chemistry seem to herald a -short life for the Arab unity will be nurtured and students are in the laboratory, for instance, English stu- Republic and may tempt one to may well kindle a great flam.e dents could utilize the class rooms in the Chemistry minimize its importance; but this that -wm throw the whole l\liddle is not so. Ea.st int:e> a state of turmoil. Building. The United Arab Republic Tlie great steam engine of revo- In order to make more efficient use of the faculty, it (Syria and Egypt) has one great Iution has started rolling: first has been suggested that the faculty-student ratio be raised advantage over the Arab Federa- goal-\Unity 00: the Nile Valley\; from the present 10:1 to 20:1. The change in ratio would tion (Je>rdan and Iraq)-t!he ap- first objective-Sudan. Nasser's peal of an idea. Arab unity is the speech of Tuesday, February 25, have to be COUpled With more Self study and WOUld involve idea, an idea that draws all Arabs that \Never will an Arab carry less \planning and guiding\ for the faculty, leaving them to it. Until a few months ago, arms against a brother Arab\ is free for other pursuits. Egypt's Nasser was opposed to sure to offer little consolation to No conclusions have been reached, but we are living union and his conversion to the the Sudanese! in an age of educational change and there can be little doubt that Union College will not elect to \stand pat\ but will grow and change as the times demand. DSP Campus Culljngs Nine years ago, Princeton in- Club extended bids to only those stituted the 100 per cent Bicker so_phomoves w:ho wished to join system. Under this system every of their own free will, and that it sophomore receives a bid to one would be impossible for any stu- or -another of Princeton's eating dent to be forced into Prospect ·by ~lul>s. MY sophomore who hM members -of any other group, at not been chosen by any dub is l!'last in a direct fashion. then assigned to one of the clubs The final selection of Prosp.ect by the Inter-Club Committee. Club numbered only Z9 boys, as The Musical Box By Paul FreonCilich There are two divergent cur- Whether they are doing a moody rents in the mainstream of mod- version of Funny Valentlne or the ern jazz today. One is based on exciting mue Sands (Pacific i2~9) the assimilation of classical ideas, -it swings. Those listeners who and l)as produced a subdued find atonality distressing Will ap- sound, with much written impro- preclate the strong melodic lines visatlon, and the use of varied In- 'tliat ·weave through the group's strumentation. The other empha- arr-angements. sizes free swinging derived from ,For experimentation and versa- more traditional jazz roots-e.g,: tility it is hard t<> beat Jimmy · a strong sense of r'hythm, a blues Guiffre. The. artist himself plays feeling, and a take-off point for alto, tenor, and baritone sax, be- improvisation in pe>pular melodies. sides the finest progressive clar- Of course, the majority of the inet around. The music he plays · music played is neither com- range,s from solid swinging to pletely one nor the other. At the completely- esoterlc flights (on opposite ends of the poles are the one number he uses three flutes, Modern Jazz Quartet playing on a11ofuer an oboe, EngUs,h horn what is hardly ]'azz at all, but and bassoon). Guiffre's later al- just fascinating musi.c, and Dizzy bums have been ;preoccupied with Gillespie with his neo-bop, In be- the use of folk tunes as a founda- tween are a legion of excellent tioi:l for improvisation. He is n<>t ENGINEE'RS wanted! We want the Engineers of the area to know that we appreciate their making Maurice B. Graubort & Sons their selected store when they want fine Diamonds, ·Silverware cmd better jew~lry. Wa appreciate their demand that the merchant \know\ the goods he offers for sale and that he· assumes responsibility for the accuracy ond complete honesty of his statements. For three generation• the <iraubarts have made Diamonds and Jewelry o study . , . offering the best at no extra cost. The name Maurice B. Groubart & Sons is your assurance of pleasant dealings with a reliable Jeweler ... at the same address for nearly forty years on Jay Street. ~- ~18S\\~ ~t\~~~A~ST.JIWlL(RS Registered Jewelers, American Gem Soclety \Serving Schenectady jrw Three Gene1'ations' 1 <)< 166 JAY ST., opp. Mohican This year, however, the Inter- opposed .to the usual 45 of most Club Committee has refu.sed all clubs. Hence, the ICC stated, al- responsibillty for the plaaing of inost ,all of the Unaffiliated stu- 23 un·bid students. The decision dents coul·d have ,been accommo- on the part of the ICC came as dated at that club, but instead a result of the action of Prospect chose not to join, relying upon Cooperative Club, taken ·before the ICC to <place them in some the bicker period, in which any club which they considered more sophomore who wished to avoid desirable. It is this condition the rigors of bicker was extended which led to the ICC's refusal of a bid to join the club. At that responsibility to them. point five men chose to join the \' groups, each having their own always successful but when he is, llli===========================!!l distinctive conception of how pro- some of, the most intriguing and gressive jazz should be pl-ayed. imaginative sounds ever heard club, therefore withdrawing from Hurt and Outraged bicker. The club also elected to In spite of this, one could not withdraw from bicker until Open overlook a letter to the editor o! House Night, during which most the Daily Prlncetonian, written other clubs extend bids, and at by Paul G. Rochmis, of the Class that time remain open to any of 1960. sophomore who wished to join \Little did I know .on the night Prospect.' Hence, any member of of Architectural Tour that I the class was extended a bid ,t 0 would find mys·elf a \one hundred join the club, and could not .be percenter\ on the m<lrning after categorized as a \1(]0 percenter\ Open House NLght. or one who was not invited to \I do not feel it necessary to join any of the seventen clubs rehash the alternates to the Club on campus, according to the _ICC. system: Woodrow W:ilson ·Lodge and Prospective 'Cooperative Club. Discrimination ,1::harged There is on campUs today- no such Yet, some of the 23 men who thing as an equivalent alternate remain unaffiliated said that they to joining a club. If a person were not allowed a free choice decides to bicker, and wants to in the bickering procedure, due to join a club, then the offer of religious or racial discdmination. somewhat equivalent facilities There are 13 Jewish boys and a cannot change the fact that he Negro among the 23. But ln a was uot accepted by a club, nor letter to the editor of the IJaily does It change the feeling that he Princetonlan, the campus daily, was not good enough for the signed by fifty upperclassmen, it clubs.\ was pointed out that Pr<Jspect -The Amherst Student The various ensembles led by are produced. For those afficion- Chico Hamilton have achieved a adoo well acquainted with the popular acceptance second only to genre, Jimmy Guiffre Will pose that of Dave Brubeck (the quln- no pr-oblems. For others a few tet was recently featured in the listenings may be necess~i·y- be- movje \The Sweet Smell of Sue- fore some of his music becomes ces's\). The deletion of piano and enjoyable. The effort is well the use of cello (played with bow worth while, however-It wears or plucked) adds a special touch. very well. Cast for Sophocles' Oedipus Rex Directed by Professor Gifford Wingate; assisted by Michael Berkman Oedipus, king of Thebes • .. . .. . . . .. . .. • .. .. • .. .. . . .. Albert Katz Jooasta, wife of Oedipus , , ..........•....•......... Helen Slay.ton Ct•eon, brother of Jocasta ...........•.....•...... Robert Messard Teiresias, a blind prophet ............ , • . . . . . . . . . • Frederi>ek Hall A Priest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Herman A !Messenger .......................... - . . . . . . . . . . . Gary Gilmore A Shepherd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . Joseph Napolitano Chorus and attendants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frederick Galloway, Elaine Rac'lilin, Judith Strong, Marjory Feiner, David Ather- ton, Davida Hackbarth PROCT·OR'S WALT DISNEY'S 11 0LD YELLER\ and \PORTUGAL .. .In Color PLAZA \'I WASA TEENAGE FRAN KERSTEIN\ - 2 Hits- '\BLOOD OF DRACULA\ STATE Rock Hudson - Jennifer Jones VIttorio De Ska \FAREWELL TO ARMS\' I RELIABLE RADIO SERVIGE 736 State Sf. EX 3·8668 • Sales &t Service On All Makes of RADI.OS • CloCks -. Pm·table - Car .. Hl-Fi Sets Tap& Reoo1•ders · (Next to Molu\,wk <Jhevrolet) Friday~' M~ ( B: Ant will be Merme1 s~turd: meet 1 most e in whi, has ·cc seven losses. tions a times this y Union Then being il two thr persons Yahn:,, man, i~ 2:20 fo while I tile ma the 200 the 44C andl.s: times those c men d· In .sJ Dutchn edge ir their g it appe the 50 yard fi factors AltlH eight : bered' · ier .sc: roughe m.et tl by Me ion de The 35th ~ Union Union 'last y this ~ cates, <pTOVe< The A1 hold legi~ All noun, each to th feels ing c ing t inclu man leybl tracl .All Whi mer be t to a ter Hun alun Tl the oft Iti will up proi ·u bl .. C( Vl 4.-:

FridCiyj' Febru<try 28; 1958 ,___.---------~~-----------~···-------------. ' Good Food ·Without Frills i MARRY ME \\''' ..... , ,., \\' •• w~'· NICH~.!:'!o R:~!':NTj i Athletes T\ 0 Get Trop.hz·es Ring at Maurice B. Grllub .. rt & Sons, FOR OVER 60 YEARS Jewelero, 166 Jay St. We can rely on For Sp· . orts 'participation . All candidates for battery Melvin 268 STATE STREET CAFE •. 01 6-«152~7 . posts on the baseball tea!m are Union's Department of Intercollegiate Athletics will to repart to tihe :fleldhouse at SCHENECTADY, N.Y. REST. • FR 4-8'1 17 hold a dinner for all participants of the indoor intercol- ,nfr 4 ~= 45 ~·~o~n~M~on~da~y~, M.a~r~c~h~ll~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~ legiate program on Tuesday night, at 6:15 in Hale Roues. All varsity awards ·will be an-'$•>---------------1 nounced at this time. In addition, each coach will 'Present a trophy ·Intra Standings to the player on his team who he feels has made the most outstand- Final Volleyball Standings ing contribution to the sport dur- National League W ing the past semester. The sports Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . 8 includecb are varsity and fresh- Chi Psi ............... , 7 man :basketball, swimming, vol- Indepe11dents . , . . . . . . . . . 7 leyball, wrestling, and indoor Psi Upsilon . . . • . . . . . . . . 7 track. Delta Chi . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . 5 .Ambrose Gilligan, tp.rincipal of. Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . 4 Wllitehall High Sohool and a for- ·Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 mer athletic great at Union, will Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 be the guest· speaker. ·Expected Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . 1 to •attend the dinner are Dr. Car- Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . 1 ter Davidson, Dean C. William American League W Huntley and many interested Faculty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 alumni. Delta Upsilon , . . . . . . . . . . 6 The function of the dinner is Beta T.heta Pi . . . . . . . . . . 5 the rec<>gnition of the contribution Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . 5 of Union's athletes to college life. Delta Phi , ...... , . , . . . . 3 It is also hoped that the dinner Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . 3 will be one step towards buil:ding SigiiDa Chi ..... , ..... , . . 3 up participation in the athletic :Phi Sigma Delta .•... , . 2 program on campus. .... Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . 1 L 1 2 2 2 4 5 5 7 8 8 L 0 2 3 3 5 5 5 6 7 There Will be an exhibition basketball game between· the college's varsity and junior vai'sity teams in the gym at 4:30 .On Monday, March S. JAMES Restaurant STOWE'S POPULAR SKI DORM • &OOD FOOD at !)rices you ~n afford_ Booth and Fountain Service THE ROUND HEARTH There's nothing like it! Join in the delightfully casual fun of Ski- land's most unique, popular lodge. Live dorm style ••. $5.75 daily, $35 weekly,. 2 meals. Fa- mous circular fireplace sparkles huge dine-dance area. Lounge, game room, Fun galore! Fine 426 State St. food, good beds.Write: Folder or _.. ••• ~ ••• ...___ ............ ~.Tel. STOWE, Vt., Alpin« l-7223. Save ~n Phil's own Brands PHIL ENGLEHARDT'S Liquor Store 511 Union Street EX 3-3110 1\--------------------------------------------------------\---------.~ j CLARK BROS. CO. ~· 1 OLEAN, NEW YORK i ! I A Division of Dresser lndustriesJ 1 I Representatives will be at Union College 1· •• : l 1 March 14, 1958 f • to interview candidales for positions in 1 J Sales Application- Field Service- Project- Design 1 l aiJ-d Development - Test l •• ' ' t : • MECHANICAL. CHEMICAL, AND PETROLEUM ENGINEERS (One Year Training and Development Program) Manufacturer of engines, engine driven compressors, Industrial gas turbines and centrifugal comp~essors PLEASE. SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND TO APPLY FOR AN INTERVIEW ~---- .............. _______ .... __ ...:, ____________ .. ______ ~ .. ----------J

4 Student, Teachers Switch; '57 Valedictorian Returns By Melvin S. Einhorn In an ironic reversal, 16 of Union's Science and Engi- neering pvofessors have turned into students of an ex-stu- dent. Ca:I'vin Henry Knickerbocker, valedictorian of the Class of 1'957, is pulling the~ strings, in a well-accoutred F d D· . classroom at the local IBM OU.ll ers . ay • • • Letter can only be visualized by those with sincere motives. The editor's comment that, \the (Continued from Page 2) Idol is supposed to rep.resent stu- dent thought,\ might wen have This is the time that the typical been written, \sterotyped student, Idol stories and poems appear. thought,\ or still ·better, \unjus- ·. 0f eourse the student feels that tified sterotyped student thou,gbt.'• · he bas just cause to be depressed. Perhaps, if answers to problems· He has acquired, through our ul- were sought with some degree of. tra-mat.erialistic culture, the idea sincerity and the definition of,. that he should ,be the deserving the intellectual was freed from, recipient of all sorts of good its stifling encrustments, the ar-, things that the world has to of- ticles •in the \Idle\ would show· fer, never considering what he· some individuality and variety. Friday, February 28, 1958 For Your Information Saturday, 'March 1. Alpha .Ph·i . tholic Rosary, OC, Noon; Hillel Omega Meeting, 'Silliman Hall, Counselorship, Silliman; Noon; 6 :3() to 9:30 P.M.; Varsity Ea.$- . !Christian Assn., Silliman Hall; ltetball, Union vs. Hamilton at 4:30 :f;,M.; Glee ·Club. Rehearsal, !Clinton, 4 P.M.; Fxeshman Bas- OC, 6:45 P .. M.; Newman Club ketbrull, Union vs. Hamilton ·at Meeting, Student Loun~, 7:30 Clinton, 2 P.M.; Yarl;lty Swim- P.M.; American Society .Of Me- ruing, Union vs. RPI at Troy, chanica! Engineers ~Stud,ent 2:3() P.M.; Varsity Wrestling, Chapter), CE}106, 7:30 P.M. Union vs. Albany State a~ Selle- Thursday, Marclh 6. The }3lood nectady,. 8 P.M.; High School· ;Drive, Gymnasium; Frate):'llity Basketball, Nott Ter.r.ace vs. Night. Vestal, Gym, 7 and 8 P,M. is going to contribute to Man- Amos E;aderlscher, Jr., '59, Last spt-ing, upon hearing of· Hassler was described aq \a leat•n- !rind. : Sunda.y, :Marcb. 2. Organ Recital, Rnickerboclcer's graduation plans ed Swiss confessedly the ablest But this recognition of life's Rushing RuleS • Miss Helen Henshaw, MC, 4, to engage in computer-work at. mathematician and astronomer hurdles is only a low rung on · P.M., Two points ·credit; ·Com- branch. (Continued from Page 1) Friday, Ma.l'ch 7. Last Day for Dropping ICou:rse Without Pen- aity: Daily Assembly, \Tl'le Dutch Pipers,'' MC, Noon.; Fac- ulty Lounge, 8 P .. M.; First Show- ing by Arnold Air Force Society and Airforce of a Series of Jli!ovie Travelogs, EE-22 at 7:30 P.M. (One showing only). One point credit. IBM, Professors Hal'old W. Bib- that was ever in America ... \ the ladder of social and .literacy The work of the joint HPIC- , inunity Vespers, ]\{C, 7:30 P.J\i]:., ber and Frederick J. H. Burkett, Because of his inability to handle adjustment. Everybody recog- Student Gouncil eomtp.ittee on the: Interfaith Service, sponsored by of the Eleckical Engineering and students, his eccentricity and !lib- nizes them soo):ler or later. The. college rushing rules will come to· the, IIJhristian .A:ssn. of Union' MathemaUc.3 Departments respec- sent-mindedness, however, Hassler process cannot stop here, how- a head witl1in the next two weeks.' College, spea:ket, Rabbi Alvin tively, impressed on him the de-, was not a silccessful teacher. ever; there must be a progression The final report will he .presented s. Roth, Temple Beth E)meth of . sire of the ·combined science and of thought. Unfortunately •the to the Student Council on Tues-: Albany, Two points credit. engineering facilities to become In 1811, Hassler was allowed to plan to achieve the next higher d iM 00 4 h'l th HPIQ w'll familiar with the beneficial short- resume his surve:ying, and in Au- rung, ie< possessed by ~;mly a very ?-Y• · ar. ' w: : e e.· ·. 1 , Mrtmday, March 3. Inter'Varsity cuts of computer use. gust, 1816, he was notified of his few individuals. Most just con- t~!c~~=v~~th~ommtttee fmdmgs on, C)lristian Fellow,ship, .student . p ---·~o~-~- With the coming of the current appointment as \Superintendent tinue kicking at life, like spoiled In all probability ther.e will be· ~ounge, 7 ~.M.; Wresth.ng, 'U~- rom • e • achievements in the diverse fields of the Survey of the Coast.\ children, as if they had nothing . h · th h\ · . IOn v~. Intmilton, a P.M., ASME · t\ t · 1 \Again forced to resign his post, better to do. no maJOr c ange m . e rus mg (Ex. Committee) CJE Library, (Continued from Page 1) mtersec mg a omtc or nuc ear f\ procedures of. the prevtol,ls year~. 7 : 30 P.M. ' power, the impetus to facilitate Hassler was appointed the nst 4 much smaller group retreats 0nly one maJor -chal).ge w:as ser.r- between one and two hundred the solution 1by computer) of the' director of the newly formed U.S. behind 1he shadows of bohemian- ously considered, that of expand-· Tuesday, Marc4 4. Daily Assem- dollars. complex mathematical problems Standards of Wei'ghts and Meas- ism, a perverted form of conform- ing the rushing period from two, bly, speakers; The St. Andrew;· Committee chairmen for t'he invGlved was strongly felt among ures in 1830, and two years latel' ity. to three weeks, with a ,generally:. Stude~ts, MC, Noon; Student, prom were: Arrangements, Paul' Cnion's technical faculty. So tne he resumed his costal survey, For those who continue in their less intensive program than we., Councrl, Hale Hcuse Lounge, Cohen, Naseeb· Nassor and Lewis t 't ff d b the which he continued to head until d 7·''5 PM· Photography Club · elM gra Ul ou.s 0 er ma e Y development, there .is little time have had. This plan receive a · .~ · ·• · · · • Roht· Tickets Harlow M illen·· f th \'-h ect d IBM his death in 1843.'' · · SI'll''\\\an Hall 7•30 PM ' · ' · ' manager o e = en a Y left t<> ·dWell upon life's futility. death blow from administratlve· \'\'' · • · · · · PUbHcity, Steven Albert; Clean\ office, as 11. result o.f entreaties by Following Professor Smith's. They must go on and search and unwillingness to have r.ushing in- Wednesday, Marcl!. 5. ·The .Blood up, Edward Ruth; Prizes, An,- Knickerboclcer, was u.- draught to address, Rear Admiral H. Arnold revise, continually, eventually terfere with acadilmic pur.suits for; Drive, Gymnasium; Episcopal: thgny Cesta; and Refreshments, the parchQd palates ·Of intellectual Karo, Director of the U.S. Coast approaching an answe1·, which a!; extended period. Eucharist, MC, 7 A.M.; The Ca- Joseph Andreana. curiosity. Knickerbocker is to in- and Geodetic Survey delivered .an struct his former professors in address on \Fifteen Decades of the operation· of computers, less Scientific and Engineering Prog- than a yea1· after receiving his ress.\ B.~owever the practical applica- \In selecting my illustrious tion of the computer, which Bib- predecessor, Ferdinand R. Has- her has dcscri bed as a \mid- sler, as your Union worthy for 1958, you have conferred a signal twentieth century superlative of honor upon the Coast and Geo-· the sltdP·rulf'\ iR not aosured. as detic Sur·vey and all who have the financial burd,·n of renting had a part in its proud and bon- one is considerable. while pur- arable service to the nation,\ said chase is beyond consideration. It Admiral Raro. The extraordinary is hoped that some area industrial vision which Professor Hassler plant will consider availing time brought to the Coast survey is on one of its devices. c,·ident to this day;· continued the Half-way along the road to com Admiral. puter use, the Science and Engi- neering Faculties are anxiously Admiral Karo outlined the work optimistic that extensive theoret- of the Coast Survey over the past ical difficl.llties will soon be han- 150 years, and concluded, \The died here \Vith added efficiency Coast and Geodetic Survey has and celerity. accepted an important role in the Speed is daily transferring the International Geophysical Year ... theoretical into the practical. and and ... we are now contributing Union's scientists, already in- materially to national security in structing courses in Atomic the rockets and missiles pro- Power, and having already ap- gram.\ plied to the Atomic Energs Com- \The eharacter, integrity and mission concerning acquirement imagination handed down to us of a nuclear reactor, with the from Professor Ferdinand Ru- added boost of computer calcula- dolph Hassler is indeed an envi- tion, can become significant cogs able heritage in which we are in the wheel of atomi.c-age justly proud.\ progress. Admiral Karo has been with the ---o---- Survey for over thirty-four years, B k tb II and has distinguished himself aS' ·e a • • e both afloat and ashore. A grad- <Continued from Page 3) be ready for the weekend. Marty Nachbar has been playing despitP a leg Injury Union brolce a two game'Iosing streak Wednesday, by defeating Rochester 82-68. The Garnet started slowly as the Yellow- jackets led through most of a dull first half. Larry Robertson's chip shot as the gun went off climaxed a Garnet rally and gave the Dutchman a slim 35-34 lead at the half. Coach 'Cartmill finally hit the winning combination after Bill Mather fouled out with the visi- tors leading 46 to 43. The Dutch- men, led by AI Dunclter and Frank Crum. rattled off t,hirteen straight points to acquire a lead they never r~linquished. AI Dun- cker lead the scoring with 24 points. followed by Robertson with 19, Crum. 16, and Arnie Lewis, 10. Duncker and Robert- son completely dominated the backboards the second half. Union finislhed the game with six men, three of whom had four personal fouls. MARRY ME Linda . and I'll buy the Wed- ding Ring at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jowalers, 166 Jay St. We can rei~ on thoir 3 goneration reputation. Jimmy uate of the University of Nebras- ka, Admiral Karo has held a mul- titude of top assignments over the years, including command of the largest vessels of the Survey fleet. During World War II, he was transferred to the Army Air Forces and was given command of the Air Forces Aeronautical Chart Plant with the Rank of Colonel. After the war, 'he re- . turned to the Survey, and was appointed Director in 1955. L. G. BALFOUR 00. Fralernlty Jewelers BADGES- RINGS- FAVORS IJEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS OLUB PINS - KEYS MEDAlS - TROPHDIB Write or Call CARL SORENSEN 171 Marshall St., S;yracnue, N. Y. Phone Granite 5-78S7 Union's leader in Cleaning & Shirt Laundering BALL'S INC. 224 Nott Tel\race Dl 6-3456 Special 1 Hr. Cleaning Service 7 Hr. Service on Sbirfit FERRO'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar Free Parking PIZZA Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. ~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-n r I John Lawlor, B.S. in E.E., Brown, '52, answers some questions about An engineering career with the Bell Telephone Companies John Lawlor is a Transmission Engineer with New England Telephone and Telegraph Company in Boston. His allilwers refle4!t his experiences during five years in the telephone business. Q How did you begin as an engineer in the Bell Telephone Compcm·ies? A My first fifteen months were spent in \on-the- job\ training-changing assignments every three months or so. These assignments gave me a broad, over-all background in telephone engi- neering. And they were accompanied by plenty of responsibility. They progressed in importance w~th my ability to handle them. 0 What is the attitude of older engineers and ~upervisors toward young men? A I've found a strong team spirit in the telephone company. You're encouraged to contribute your ideas, and they're received with an open mind. Young men and new ideas are regarded as vital to the continuing growth of the company. Q How about opportunities for advancement? A I'd say they depend on the man. Opportunities to demonstrate your ability· come with each new BELL TELEPHONE COMPANI,ES job you're given. The size and ilnportance of your assignments grow with your ability to handle them. All promotions are made from within, and the growth of the business is creating new open- ings all the time. One more thing. Most tele- phone engineering locations are convenient to colleges. You can aid your advancement by keep- ing on with your studies. Q How does the telephone company stack: up where pay is concerned? A Starting salaries are competitive with those of- fered by most large companies. Raises are based on merit, with several increases during your first two years with the company. What's more, your perfonnance is reviewed regularly to make sute that your pay keeps up with your progress. All things considered, I think a Bell Telephone career is second to none in rewards and opportunities. .. Find out about career opportunities for you in the Bell Telephone Companies. ,Talk with the Eell interviewer when he visits your cam• pus. And read the Bell Telephone booklet on .file in your Placement Office, or write for \{;hallenge and Opportunity\ to: College Employment Supervisor, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N; Y. I I I I I I I I I I I I ~ L~e-----------------------·--------------------•--•--••~-~--~------~-~---~-----------~-----~ I I I I I I I I I ( VOL. E M11 Int Bl< wir sic as condU< Wed:fiE in the ~ ing to commJ donatE last YE Tll.e 1 .casted the ·dri with , \ailllbiti time. t preciat that it future, ers, ch Pled! proxim technic ers of elimim tious 1:1 en me: Dr. 1 sician, Delphi job.\ by the who b H The meet March Ina tim take ' tions JoshUJ th.lldO) and 11 of 1ec1 Judai! c(j L An writir Prize, Engli: this 'Y in mE be in Yu< ion i After fall ~ dona1 teres I the·~ creat stude been pus shoul Codn An 1s th' Poet ten OI1e from -In emy cbOS for~ senti stitu does 01 may for any of bmu priZ was for T1 pre I the •rl:le of E spe1 este his inf< T ed an;y of !pat ma tiOl le!11 wo: the .llVI gel En

