1959 are of an present once the ery op- their s very are get stand- as the fac- an eth-• than widely I to be ( I' I ' !, I , ) ' Mounteb~atk's \trial.\ Page 2 VOL. 89, No~ 10 L'ook Anywhere He said it startled him \to learn that the actual cost of an educa- tion: here at Union is about $500 to $700 more, per year than the student pays:\ This difference is made up through an endow-, ment fund, currently worth $23 million, and by alumni fund drives, last year's netting $76,000 The big problem, Mr. Millh'am went on to say, Is that there is no \prospect in. the foreseea'ble future that this dependence upon oilr alumni will cease or even lessen. For one thing you can look a:lmost anywhere on this campus ·and find places where we ough,t to improve our physical fa- cilities. For another, as the cost of education continues to go up, we have to find new sources of funds to assist good boys who simply cannot afford our tuition charges.\ Compelled to Contribute Mr. Millham gave three reasons why an alumnus after his gradu- ation should feel compelled to corrtribute toward the Union alum- ni fund. They are: 1. \Every alumnus who enjoyed his college life takes pride in the institution and wants to help build it stronger. 2. \Most people have a sense of responsibility toward those who have helped them. 3. \Giving to one's alma mater is in a sense a form of profit sharing,\ ·because a college ed- ucation affords a man at least $100,000 additional income with- in 'his lifetime.\ Starts Life Habit The present objective, Mr. Mill- ham continued, is \to try to start the student body in the life long habit of giving some amount-how- ever small-for the improvement of the institution.\ Therefore, beginning next· week, under the chairmanship of Gary Gross, there· will be an undergraduate solieita- .tion. for the Alumni Fund. The amounts asked are not large, and participation will be entirely voluntary. As Mr. Mill- ham said, \this is not an attempt to raise the tuition from 1150.00 to $1150.50''; but if the drive is successful it will make the stu- dent ·a 'better alumnus and even more important it will make him a. .better citizen 'because the good citizens a-re those who voluntar-' ily recognize and discharge their responsibilities in life.\ 0,--~~ DONAI:D L. MILLHAM Forbid Cars To Students On Warning No resident student on academ- ic warning may have a car for the duration of the warning per- iod, according to a new regulation passed by the administration, This restriction does not apply to students who commute daily to school, and thus require a ·car. The rule, which recognizes the correlation between having a car and the subsequent lowering of the student's grades, will go into effect next semester. \Anyone disc·overed possessing a car, in violation of the rule, had better hasten to the nearest bomb shel- ter,\ warned Dean Huntley_ Figures Constant \It is interesting that the fig- ures of thi's year in comparison to those of last year at the same time are al:most constant,\ Hunt- ley observed. This year 17.3 per- cent of the school attained Dean's List in comparison to 15.6 percent last year. Those on warning were in almost the same ratio in that there were 1;1..9 per cent on warn- ing this year, in reference to 10.9 percent in 1958. Students who failed one or more courses seem to be in almost lilre ratio with 22.1 percent failing this year in contrast to 22.9 percent of the pre- · ceeding year. Finally, the figures indi•cate that the Freshman index is a:bout equal to that of the rest of~ the school. Last year there was 12.5 percent of the Fresh class on Dean's List, and this year;._ 14 percent. The percent on warning was almost the same; 11.7 in 1959 and 11.8 in 1958, The publication of these figures will correct a misconception w'hkh There are several changes in the interviewing schedule. The is prevalent on campus that the Placement Bureau Reveals Changes index of the school as a whole United State,s Department of Jus- and of the Freshman class was tice, Immigration & Naturaliza- tion Service will interview on Mon- ·abnormally low at the end of the day, December 7, 1959, for all de- ·first marking period, according to Dean ·Huntley. grees. Bell Aircraft Company has Warning Explained cancelled their December 9 date, anyone interested should . contact Special ScholarShip W!!-rning is R. E. Artman, Administrator, Coi- a 'status brought about only lege Relations Bell Aircraft Cor- 'through action of the. Committee· poration, Buffalo 5, N. Y. ·on Standing of Students. If a stu- The American Electric Power· dent fails to achieve his minimum h dd d index (freshmen 1.3, sophomores Service, Pecember 11 • as a e 1.4, juniors and seniors 1.5), this civil engineers to their needs. board, taking into account :past Change the needs of North Am- records, abiiity, and attitude, con-· erican Aviation on February 19, silers whether or not to place the 1960 from civil engineers to me- stude)lt on warning. chanica! engineers. If this move .occurs, the student Add on February 29, 1 9 60 the must not fa1i below the minimum Alb;my Felt Company, their re- index: again, in which case he will quirements w\ll be )isted later. be dropped from school. To be Curtiss Wright Corporation, M;atch 3, 196()<, will need only phy- removed from the list he must get ales majors and electrical engi- at least 2.0 for two· semesters. neers. A clas9 breakdown on the 105 · The application for Bell System students is. as follows: 41 sopho- shotild be turned in at the Place- mores, 34 juniors, 22 seniors, and ment Office !before December 10, six returning freshmen and spe- 1951). cia! !'ltu.deqts. Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1'959 Prexy Prepares :;:~. :. -····\\*-~.· \•'. On Tuesday, December 1, a first anniversary celebration was held at tb.e Sheraton-Atlantic Hotel marlting the ope.ning of the Independe:nt Coll~e Funds of 1\nrerica, representing the 40 State Associtati6ns and their 477 member colleges. Sh()(WD left to right as they blow out the ca.ndle on thllf big cane are: President Nils Wessell of Tuft University, DT. Gerald P. ~urns. Executive Direcfur of ICFA; Dr. Carter Davidson, iPresident of Ulllion College, llilld President Willls M. Tate, of Southem Me1llwdist Universicy. Entirely student operated, un- der the official management of the Union College Student Couu- cil, Inc., the Rathskellar brought vigorous protests· from several quarters during its planning stages over the controversial is- sue of beer sales to students. It was feared by some elements of the College family, as well as by some residents of the local com- munity, that the establishment would be little more than a. \beer parlor\ detrimental to student morals and a breeding place of rowdyism. College authorities and students alike, however, insisted that it would provide a healthy . gathering place f~>r evening study breaks and a mace where stu- dents could entertain their guests. Schmidt's Praise Quoted \The past ten years,\ Mr. Schmidt said, \have proved con- clusively the validity of the !Col- lege reasoning and the error in the· initial objections.\ Beer sales, he pointed out, have accounted at their very most for less than twenty per cent of the sales in any one year and have averaged approximately sixteen per cent. Coffee, soft drinks, hamburgers, and other types of short order snacks have accounted for the ,bulk of the sales. . Honors Program Page 3 PRICE TEN CENTS The Ca,rnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching was founded in 1906 by the late An- drew Carnegie for the primary purpose of providing pensions for retired college teachers and their widows. It also sponsors inquirie,; into various educational problems as the occasion demands. The Foundation currently has a twen- ty-five member Board of Trustees, most of whom are college and university presidents. ---o--- AGLUCon tends Merit Due· Process . The American Civil Liberties Union strongly recommended re- cently that colleges carefully ob- serve due process in all cases in- volving expulsion of students, ex- cept for failure to meet academic standards. The ACLU contended that stu- dents are entitled to the safe- guards of due process, just as are teachers. Its proposal was em- bodied in revisions to the pamph- let, Academic Fl'eedom and Civil Liberties fot• Students, which the Union first prepared and publish- ed in 1956. Student Protection Stressed The revised pamphlet calls for the \utmost procedural protection possible\ in cases involving ex- pulsion of students. Where guilt is acknowledged, it stated, a re- view board rather than a single administrator acting without ad- vice should study the case and recommend penalty . .Students who do not admit guilt should be granted hearings, be permitted to confront witnesses, and be entitled to appeal to a r.eview body. In any cases involving expulsion or other major disciplinary action, except for failure to meet acad- emic standards, the pamphlet em- phasized, students should ·be ad- vised in writing of charges against them. be present at hearings, have counsel if they wish, and· confront and cross-examine witnesses. Furthermore, Mr. Schmidt said, the Eathskellar has .provided an ideal place for students to relax after an evening's study session in the library. It has also proved a convenient place to entertain :Visiting lecturers and musical art- ists after performances in Mem- orial Chapel, or other individuals visiting the campus on business or as guests of the College. The authentic Bavarian styling and relaxed atmosphere tend to make .everyone feel comfortable. Independence Discussed The revised pamphlet also dealt with the need for students to have a larger degree of independ- ence in meeting, choosing speak- ers, discussing controversial is- sues, and in certain cases, harry- ing their college administrations, and with their right to spealt off campus as individuals or as part of student groups, while making clear they are not spokesmen of the institution they attend. \Responsibility for regulations on academic matters naturally rests with the faculty )l-nd admin- istration,\ a new section of the ACLU policy statement declared. \Regulations governing the extra- curricular activities of students shollld be enacted, amended and supplemented by a committee com- posed of faculty members and stu- dents\ chosen respectively by the teachers and students. FinanCially, the 'Dutchmen's :~:tathskellar has proved quite suc- cessful. Though operated on a relativt)ly low profit margin, it 'has gros$ed sales from $12,000 to $18,000 annmuly, showing a deficit on only two occasions. It has also prov:ided excellent business train- ing for the student managerial staff.

2 ':\' PubliHht'd 1•\1 idays during the sc·hool )'<'RI' hy the ~tudent Body of l'nion College, S•·henectadY, ;-..;, Y. ;);ational Adi\HllSlll!; Hep· retientati\'c: ~atiuual Ad.vt•rtis- ing Se1 \'ice. hu·.. Co11Pge Puh- J:shers RcpresPntati\'e, 420 :llad- ison Ave., ~- Y. C. E<lltorial Of·flce, Washburn Hall, Unton College, Publication Uf· fire The Gazette Pres~. 334 State St. Entered in the ~che· nectady Post Office as Second Cla:;s :\!ail ~latter, subsniptlon JOe a copy; $2 a year ddlv.,red anywhe!e In the t::nited State~. SEXWR BOARD l'ETEH J. STEI!':CL.\S~ '60 ..... 111 6-7149 ........... Editor-in-Chief LA:'-:rl-~ :\1 HAHASH. '60 .......... Ill 6-99~9 ........ Busmes_!! .\la~>a.ger I' A l' r, I. w' )j.J.,:I!A\' '60 .......... EX J·O I 91 ......... !11ana;png Ed! tor Jui-:L KUI'Elt:S111TH 'tiO .......... I:X :1-lo<:2 ......... Asso;late Ed!tor HOBERT J. l;AL\'IN '61 .......... 1>1 6-201~ .............. News Ed! tor STEPHE:\'I :\1. ZIM:IIERMAN '60 ... Dl 6-7149 .........• Features Ed1tor JU~IOR BOA Rll Mark Krugman '60 ................... , ............. Photography Edd!tor J h \\ 'ahlt'~ 'GO •••••••••••••.•• Art E ttor o 11 M • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • '· • • ' Local Advertising Manager IJt~';!t ~~~g~ ·~6\ '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.\!-iational Advertising Manll:ger Leslie n. 1iarrus '62 • • • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . • • • • Acting ~P.o:ts ~a! tor .\mandus Hod-c ·~2 ........... , .... , .•.... ActlVltles .. rtor Ronald ~. Drusin '6~ ...•..••. .' •••••........•..• Assistant News Editor Arthur H Friedman '6~ ........ , .. , , ..... , , . Assistant Features Editor Louis Al.Jeluve 'G~ •...•.•••••.•.•..•...••.•.••.••••• Circulation Manager REPOR'I'ER STAI!':t' Douglass Allen, John Bac•r, :\lkhael Borsotelli, Bruce Berwald, Thomas L>amlrew, :iteven Ei\<'n l'aul t iallant, Ito bert lloldenberg, C~arles G~ld­ stein :\lit·hael < ionlon 'Thomas Grange, :\lark Handelman, ~oah }-fersh~ knwttz: l'aul J a<\obs 'Hally Kaplan, :-;ell Kleinman, Kenneth Kess~er, 1 'eter Let 1 :ourt. La\\ 1 t'llt e I~ntduter, ::..Iatthew Loe\\ enstetn. ~~hn Lul et- kw. Lloyd ~untl{, Joe l'aluinbi, Halph. Palas«:k, Fha~·le~ l tne.' St:ve~ 1'olmar Glenn l'riLus, Themlot·e ltothstem, Dame! ~ch\\atz, Alfred Som mer, Pavi<l Thurcoton. Carl \'alentine, :Oteven Zeche. Bl'Sl~iESS R'l'AFF Peter Amb 1 ·ose, Steven Fal'tor, AI Galland, Arthur Gellert, Thomas Hall, \'ietor :l!umtk, l'eter Schwartz, David Shaw, ~dward Skloot. An Appalling Antithe$iS Friday; Dec:ember 4. 1959 NSA: Philosophical Basis By K~filth S. 'ltllyt ·In previous articles some of the p-hilosophy; relations with the in- programs of USNSA have bee~ ternational student community presented and many of the poll- and consideration of their prob- cles of the organization have ·been !ems; restraints on open academic discussed. However, it niight be inquiry, .the student p:ress, and helpful to backtrack somewhat the formation of student organ- and examine the philosophical izations; these are .some of the basis for the existence of NSA. issues which directly affect us in our pursuit of education. NSA provides a framework within which these issues are set forth and discussed. The framework exists to express our opinions and take action on the basis .of our decisfons. 'The philosophy pro- vldes an intangible fr-amework within which these issues take on meaning in terms of the broader issues at stake, issues which re• late these specific conce:rns to our educational experience and the values of a free society. The National Student Associa- tion is -based on .the assumpt-ion that the American student com- ml.lnity, in pursuing a common aim of knowledge can wo-rk to- gether as a group to -share in the tasl\ of giving quality and breadth to our educational ,experience. One r --. 1 ;.__1\--~lJ-J of its primary aims-an aim which in reality can never be fully met.-iS' to give Am~rican students an opportunity to dtscuss ~\'.~ In Schenectady, Everyone Reads the CONCOR.DIENSIS \The Trial\ Judged By Wa.yne Somers The perceptive freshman may who, in the character role. of well receive a mild phys:hic shock Block and Merchant, turned m a if sometime -before December 9, performance neal.\'~profess!onal in h~ crosses Union's intellectually it's naturalness. George DiCenzo, barren campus, enters dingy howeiVer, is miseast in the lead Hanna Hall and discovers that role of Joseph K. H:e conducts anomalously' potent group, The himself and .forces out his linES Mountebanks. With a mono-intensity which an<! evaluate certain problems and responsibilities which face them, or ought to face them, as mem- bers of an academic community an.d a democratic society. The assumption is that their knowl- edge is indeed relevant both .to ed.. ucational aims and to other IS- sues they face as students. NSA further uses the assumption that a total educational exper-ience in a free society necessarily involves a realization of the type of society In which we live, a society which must increasingly look toward a creative and intelligent solution of its problems. NSA ~ Unique Group Foreign Students Important In so far as foreign students share with ·us many of the same goals and .problems, NSA attempts to cooperate with them on a re- gional and internationa;l 'basis. Through the Internationa1 Student Conference, composed of over 60 national student organizations, NSA lends active support in the form of protest and cooperation to pro:blems which affect certain student organizations. These stu- dent g.roups are often in countries which are denied many basic free- doms which we enjoy. Through ISC basic resolutions and policies ave promuigated as an expression of international student opinion. The \Letter to the Editor\ which appears in the space directly below this editorial is the firs~ letter we have received from a Union College student smce our October ~3rd issue. Over the course of this pedod we have thor- oughly aired topics of national interest, such as the Char- les Van Doren episode and the National Defense Educa- tion Act, topics of great interest on a ?omestic plan~, such as the Honor System, and even abolished the ti·adi- tional \Prom Issue\ edition of the newspaper. Surely amono-st this wide variety of fopics there should have been \'one subject that would have excited one student sufficiently to cause him to expend the effort to express his opinions in a letter. In deciding to stage Franz Kafka's surrealistic nightmare, Tlhe Trial, the Mountebanks ac- cepted a formidable challenge, and last night in a sp-ecial per- formance for high school stu- dents, they ,shoWed themselves only partly equal to it. The Trial is a \problem\ play, It is an actor's pro'blem (how to play a character who has no personality), a director's proJt lem (which of the many interpre- tations Kafka deliberately n1ade possible in his novel should :00 stressed in the necessarily re- stricted stage version?), and, when the final curtain :has fallen, a critics problem. What would Malcolm (\symbols must be real\) Cowley say? makes K. seem less Everyman than an irrltal>le moron. Playing the role with the sam.e vellement attitude thvougllout, DiCen:Zo fails to mirror the horror W'hich should slowly come over hinl and the audience a.s he discovers t:he hopelessness (}f his position as \accused\. Since NSA is uniquely a student or-ganization concerned with all aspects of a student and ·his role as a student, NSA thereby has a unique task among student or- ganizations in general. This task includes both study and action, for the American student is also a citizen in a society which de- IUands that decisions be made by Intelligence or by default. In the face o-f a society which increas- .ingly relegates higher education to a separate and innocuous place, w·here one prepares for a specific· VC!cation in that highly special- ized so.ciety, we cannot adequately serve this society or make_decis- ions which will change this soci- ety unless we begjn to assume that responsibility in some measure while we are students. Nationally, NSA, with its coun- trywide staff and regional -struc- ture, attempts to formulate pro- grams on the campus level which will be consistent with its educa- tional and activist function. Through the National Student Congress, delegates from member colleges annually review the poli- cies and practices of their organ- ization, decide methods of action, and consider new problems or new ways of looking at other problems. The ''Letter to the Editor\ has become a time-hon- ored institution of every reputable newspaper in the coun- trv It is a svmbol of recognition on the part of every ne~spaper of the reader's right to be able to express his editorial opinions in print. Thus the \letter\ tradition is a service offered by the newspaper to its readers, and when it is not taken advantage of, .,it indicates a deplor- able lack of initiative on the part of the reading public. This is a community of students, of men who are supposedly of an intellectual level which should induce them to both consider and form opinions about those fac- tors which are significantly influencing their lives. How- ever, it is appalling to realize that the students here at Union, who belong by title and situation to a group noted for its tradition of outspoken vitality, actually by virtue of their omission of action become the antithesis of the image: student. Letter to the Editor To the Editor of Conc.ordie-nsis: The seven million dollar phys- ical plant of Union is presently undergoing a three million dollar expansion, and this seems an ap- propriate time to consider the .f.u- ture of ·some of the buildings on the campus. The library is to be abandoned for a new, and long needed more efficient structure. The 'familiar sixteen sided edifice which was originally meant to be a monument to President Nott will become available; and I think that the best use to w.hich it may be put is as a fine arts building. There. has ·been a definite re- birth of fine arts at Union, thanks initially to Dr. John Mason Brad- bury who was responsible for the bringing of Dr. Curtis in music and Wayne Nowack in Art. The facilities presently used for fine arts at·e grossly inadequate to say the very least. Dr. Curtis is forced to use Old Chapel for a re- hearsal hall, and this causes the head of the geology department, Mr. Smith, endless irritation for it seems that the music disturbs his rocks. The rocks of geology are placed on the balconies of Old Chapel, and their weight is caus- ing serious damage as ha.9 been pointed out to the college business office. But space is needed for geology, and perhaps they should have the entire building, and the Nott Memorial should be given to the fine arts. The gallery space in Old Chapel is difficult to util- ize effectively, for the lighting is bad, and the viewer has to wan- der through small alcoves elimin- ating the possibility of seeing an exhibit as a whole. Painting space is quite limited for those students who are taking part in the creative art courses with Mt•. Nowack, and conflicts arise with the other occupants of Silliman Hall (where the art lab is located) because of the \mess\ the aspiring artists make. All these problems could be ea;.sily, and inexpensively, elimin- ated if the Nott Memorial were given over as a fine arts building. Some professors interested in this project have made a careful study of the building, and some sugges- tions for slight alternations have been made. A ceiling, w.b.lch could be supported by a single, slender central pillar, would be built over the first floor at the balcony level. A wall would be constructed on the first floor en- closing an auditorium with a 300 .person seating capacity, thus pro- viding the music department with a fine concert a.:nd practise hall. The theatre could also be used by the Mountebanks who will be los- ing Hanna Hall, according to pro- jected plans; within the next five yea1·s. A gallery would be made on the back of the concert hall wall and the present marble out- side wall. Lighting for the gal- lery could easily be an adaption of the -present methods used in the new Frank Lloyd Wright de- signed Guggenheim Museum, that is, pictures could be projected from the dark walls, and a wall of artificial light made behind them. The basement, with its al- ready available ·private entrance, could be divided into practice rooms for music and larger areas for the painters. This would in no way disturb anybody. The sec- ond floor could be made into of- fice space accommodating the professors and their staffs, as well as providing storage space for paintings and Union's as yet unstarted permanent art collec- tion. This redesigning of the old li- brary would be a mere utilmi.ng of the basic structure which al- ready exists, and seems that it will be less expensive to make this conversion than to try to make it into an office building for the administration, as some plans suggest. The presence of a small thea- tre, a permanent art gallery and available space for .those students who would lilte to indulge in cre- ative activity seems a basic neces- sity for whi'ch no great pl~a should have to be made at a small well- balanced college, EHB. Enzer Symlbols Not Real The symbols in The Trial are certainly not real, but the value of the play is entirely In them, and the dialogue, unreali-sticly stiff in the novel, and probably inaccurate after being translated from German .to French to Eng- lish, is of little importance. Un- fortunately, in the Mountebanks performance It was often obtru- sively awkward. This failure Is pactially coni- sated for by thE intrinsic strength of Kafka's surrealistic scenes, particularly in the seco-nd act when two and three sets are in use simultaneously, the dialogue falling into counterpoint at timEs. 'This is made p-ossii>le by Co-<!i- rector Wingate's ingeneous arches on a large turntable which creates the illusion tha.t Joseph K. is wan- dering through a lab-yrinth from: which there is no e.seape. Indeed, he ·should not try to escape, f-or, as the priest tells him:, his guilt is proven by the fact that he is •l:Je- ing punished. Problems which affect us di- ·r~ctly, therefore, must be consid- ered in light of our contri.bution to the solution of them. Federal programs for higher education, and loyalty oaths; racial segl'ega- tion and other less overt forms of unequal educational opportun- ity; educational standards and In short, NSA provides a forum for discussion and organization of action, whicoh, in its· inquiring spirit allows all student causes, all student aspirations to be ex- pressed. Through its numerous programs, many of these causes and aspirations are effected. To build a conscious, articulate, and intelligent student community, ready and able to shoulder the responsibilities of the educated <Con·tinued Ol!l Page 6) That it need not be so was shown by freshman Robert Sltloot,. A Cinema Review The Tri:al has been interpreted politically, religbusly, and psycho- analytically, and it is clear as we watch the perfor.mance that th.ese are all valid viewpoints. It, is important When going to se!! The Tr:ail to expect a fecun- dating extended metaphor rat:aJer than ·a pre-digested prl)blem-de- nouem.ent. \Room at the Top\ By Joe Palombi This is the first of a series o-f reviews, which will regularly cov- er the films being shown at the Seotila Art Theatre. The Scotia Art Theatre, just three miles over the Mohawk from Schenectady, is one of the most needed neglected parts of the cul- tural picture in the Schenectady area. First class foreign and American films of major in~port­ ance appear regularly bringing a vital art fo.rm to the full scope of the public eye. Last night another forceful and exciting film added its name to the long' list of successf11l movies to be -offered this season. Rocm At The Top, running thro-ugh Wednesday, is the latest and one of the best contributions to the world of film by England's \.Angry Young Men.\ Adapted from the b.ook by John Braine and tlirected by Jack Clayton, R'()Om A.t The Top is an account of the typ-ical pitfalls of life that are supposedly present in England today for any young man. Joel Lampton is simi- lar to thousands of other middle- class white collar workers seel{:- ing his fortune .in a country with well established social lines. How- ever, Joel is different. He has illUsions about reaching the top and will let nothing stand in his way. The plot revolves about a con- fl.ict impregnated in Joel's per- sonality. This conflict is repre- sented by his relationships with two women, Alice Askill and Su- san Brown. The latter, an Inno- cent daughter of an influential industrialist, stands for material- istic goals, while Alice, an older married w:oman, Is shown as the idealistic and sensual facets of life. The interweaving of these two opposites, bring the movie and the viewer to an agonizing climax. Although a fairly standardized plot is the vehicle i·n this movie, the true dynamics of the story are brought out by the characters and the inciting force of the soc- ial <llass situation. Laurence ·Har- vey as Joel Lampton gives a su- perb performauce of the typ·ical \Angry Young Man\ who has a goal in life bu.t su.dd.eniy finil..s himself coming to the true real- ization of his goals, only too !.ate. AJ.ice, as portrayed by one of France's finest actresses, Sitn;one Signoret is the one person who really finds Joe's true character and in the process finds the love so lacking in her n~arriage. With Alice s,s an inspiration, the prob- lem of his situation is almost re- solved. The fatal circumstances of fate, however, rare up at the last moment, pL\Unging the whole situation into a new realm of un- reality. When Joel finally does realize himself, he Is unable to change his direction and Is swept into the now .unwil.nted' circllm- stances of marriage to Susan, Harvey and \Sign~ret Shlne Lawrence Harvey and SinotJ.e Signoret carry this movie to a level of dyna,mic and forceful act- ing rarely achieved on the scr~en. In IWoiDJ At The Top there are indications of the new, novel, and revolutionary. Here is a movie in the temper of tlle memy ex- citingly different worl\S now com- ing from abroad. It is from this new crop of films that the Aineri- can movie industi•y .should take their cue and again show the pub- lic the art can be truly inherent in a motion picture. ~---·-········~---~··········-~---·-·--~---~-- 11' • • • • • • • • • • • II SUMMER AIRTRIP EUROPE Approximately $250 Roundtrip TOURS AVAILABLE TO • 1 Limited to Faculty, Staff and Students of : Union Colle9e • : Contact: Joel T eisch, Dl 6-9959 i II I ~·-···,·-·-·················-·-··········-· ____ ., ;--------------------1 I CITY HALL I LAUNDERETTE 529 Liberty St. I Do It Yourself l.aundry 1 1 l Washers - 25c a week (Holds up to 10 lbs.) Large DrY.ers- IOc for 10 min. I l (Holds up to 40 !bs.) Open 24 hours a day - 1 -·--~-:~:~_::: ____ _! STERLING DIAMONDS WATCHES GORDON JEWELERS· 1611 Uper Union St. ALL REPAIRS DONE ON CAMPUS &otia Art Theatre NOW Thru.·Wed. Nightly at 7 and 9:10 \ONE OF THE BEST PICTURES YOU WILL SEE THIS YEARI\. ---Archer Winsten, Post ~--------~-------------~--~ I . I I 24 Hour Emergency Service 1 I · I : T. J. MALONEY : I PLUMBING- HEA'fiNG CONTRACTOR 1 :, Electric ·Sewer Cleaning ·. :: 1 81roken Water Pi.pes Repaired I I I 11564 Becker St. Phone FR 7-15571 I · I ~~--·----·-----·--------~·~ ' ' -~ • -~1, 'i ' ·-\' i ·•\ ( ') ., . \ :,,..! ~- ~~ :< -~'\: .ol,·,\_ .J j fr,id F whic degi plaCI Com on il cil IJ it fa quar for min( to e hom the ed who view pro~ Th pqsec ning as f1 have an J denb aper1 Ani:: requi mate -have tiona the part! s~ A< the To a an o 3.0 a: a pei ed. facto drop· his vi have notai .of h: Pr• Divi< of tl prop• has and: gran prop< to tl La parti reQ.u hour degr• felt : still· educ morE the belie dent tuni1 doe: inch; cred: requ reas< Prog to tl Tb worl with prop woul with influ part the nize< worl out quir, coul• an t whil took only all h6nc ~ ' • Me Rin Je~ the

1959 • the in- unity prob- and organ- of the us in NSA within forth work and of our hy pro- work take on broader re• to our the students he same on a re- 'basis. over 60 in the certain stu- free- Through policies opinion. its coun- struc- late pro- which educa.- function. Student member the poll- organ- action, blems or at other a. forum inquiring causes, be ex- se causes To and the educated 6) --lMJIIfiM .. i I ow ly at 9:10 BEST ten, Post ft AI ....... MOflE SlliWORET M!---il I I I I I I I. ·I I I 7-15571 I ; ' ' -~ I l I I I • >-1, 'i . ·-\' ·.t I. i ! I l r· I r I I Fr,ide~y, December 4, 1959 Faculty ,Gives Views On Honors Program By Gei·ald :Boclt Union College is one of the few schools of its calibre which ha~ n~ provisions :for any honors work lead-ing to a degree with honors. Last Apnl, an honors program was placed before the Faculty<» . ·-- CounciL When it was voted was designed to reward the stu- on in June, at the last Coun- . dent in depth, but not in breadth cil meeting of the semester;. while ·both should receive recog- it failed to receive the three- nition. quarter marg·in necessary Professor Lowen commented for acceptance. To deter-. that to the best of his knowledge no collc;;e committee is at pres- mine whether it is feasible ent working on the problem. to establish any so:rt of an Jince he feels that an Honors honors program at Union, · ?rogram is a great asset to an the Concordiensis question- : lcademic institution, he has pro- . ;Josed that the Eng'ineeriag De- ed those faculty members partment bring before the Faculty who had e~pressed strong Jounci! a proposal which he feels views about the proposed ,s a necessary prerequisite for an . donors P.rogram. This is a pro- program. ·.posal to allow the superior stu The Honors Program, as pro- :lent who has not done extra work pqsed by the Long Range Plan- out has distinguished himsel! ning Committee was to operate academically to graduate Cum as follows: Each division would Laude. have had the option of ·creating Larrabee an Honors Program for its stu- Sc.ores frogram dents. The program would ·have Professor Larrabee· was one of operated in one of three ways. tho,se most strongly opposed to An Honors· thesis would have been the program. He favors the es- Professor Bradbury contemplates Wolf Kahn's self portrait. Kahn's worliS will be displayed in tihe Old Ohapel\ until Decl.\m- bm• 111. material .for this thesis would gram but feels that the proposed A Review required from all candidates but tablishment of an Honors Pro- [ have been acquired through addi- program did not come to grips tional work in one or more of w'ith the situation. There are, w the research courses taken in a he said, necessary conditions for· .· . . . o·l·f Kahn Exh;b;t particular field. a true Honors Program. One is I! II the establiShment of a uniform S~dent Requirements Cited standard for honOTs work and By Paul Jaeobs A candidate would have entered the granting of a degree with \We have to get over the idea the room, an unusual feeling of the program in his junior year. hono-rs only to those students of 'understanding' a picture. The presence stirs. The feeling comes To apply, he would ·bave needed meeting that standard. In the pro- moment I happen to understand· strong that mapy things in many an overall index of not less than gram as it was set up, the individ- the picture in which I am work- ways are being said with a fresh- 3.0 and would have had to submit ual departments would have been ing, it is in mortal danger. Why? ness that spins in your view. Care- a petition to the division concern- taking the best majors in the de- Because then it runs the grave fully you trace the order of the ed. If his work were not satis- pa.rtment, giving them a little ex- risk of becoming some common- works and soon note the evolution factory, a student could have been tra work, an.d graduating them place or other.\ These are the which has occurred within the ar- dropped from the program, but if with ho.nors. There would be no a!}tly stated words o.f one Wolf tist. his work were acceptable he would uniform standard for honors work Kahn, a young, vibrant and highly The paintings themselves are have received a degree with the throughout the college and the talented artist whose effor·ts are done with the ease and flair and notation of honors in the field top students in the department presently being shown in Old bravery of a worker whose sole .of his major. would receive honors, even if they Chapel. intent is to create. Yet he does Professor Lowen, Chairman of were not worthy of them. Kahn's Position Varied this not with the cold premedi- Division IV last year, was one tated thought, but with an intui- of those who voted against the Program Called Hasty Regarding the general realm tion which speaks for itself. His proposal. Lowen stated that he Professors Larrabee and Nei- of modern art, Kahn sits in an expressions come out as a later has no objections to the \Ideas meyer both felt that the proposed unusual position. He is bot)1. old growth, of thought. His strokes and principals\ .of an Honors Pro- program was hasty and ill ad vis- and new at the same time. Born and colors literally \dance.\ His gram. However, he felt that as ed. It attempted to create an in Stuttgart, Germany, and edu- paintings seem to breathe. His proposed, the program was unfair H?nors Program inexpensively, cated there, he moved to New paiilt·ings live. to the engineering students. wtthout committing the college York in 1940 at the age of 13, and \Self Portrait\ Interesting Last year the Engineering De- resources which an Honors Pro- later studied under Hans Hoff- partment changed its curric~JlUm, g1•am must have. They felt that man at the Chicago Art Institute. reQ.ucing the number of credit an Honors Program requires an At the age of 32, he has already hours required for an engineering individual tutorial setup and pos- gone through a considerable range degree. The engineering faculty sibly additional courses. If the ,vith regard to style. A sincere felt ~hat by doin-g this they could college did not pay for this, it worker, who appears at all times still insure minimum engineering would be taking the Honors Pro- to be true not only to his cause, education while instilling a gram \out of the hide of the fac- but himself as well, his works are more basic understanding of ulty.\ at times a feast to the eye. Not the fundamental principle. They Professor Bennett and Professor so \moderne\ as to be considered believe that the superior stu- Way were both in favor of an a member of \The Research dent should have the oppor- Honors Program. Each discussed Staff\ in the sense of many of tunity and the responsibility to the program as it could relate to his contempories, Kahn seems to do extra work and therefore they his own department. Every sen- simply love to paint. This is not included in the cirriculum extra ior major in Division II and in meant to infer that all comes eas- credits which the good student is Physics must take a 56 or indi- ily. In his own words, \From a required to take. This is one . vidual research, project. Both welter of brushstrokes you labor- reason why the proposed Honors men felt that honors work could iously let the picture emerge.\ Program would :have been unfair be fitted very well into the 56 This exhibit, which is a collec- tion ·Of works whose net effect is a joy to behold, ha.s the unusual ability of a wide range. That is to say there is much in it for all or any af us. As one walks about to the engineering students. pi\ojects by making the work mare Engineers Stand to Lose intensive for those who desired to take honors work. Both ex- ·pressed the hope that the program was not dead, but only dormant. DIAMANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining_ Room A Place to G.o fo Relax Opp. The Broy.<hell Gate on NoH St. As a point of interest, the ef- fort entitled \A Self Portrait\ comes up for special mention. Blending color and movement in a robust manner. Wolf Kahn s1;1ows an amazing ability to place his contents on razor thin brinks which create a fascinating effect upon the viewer. Threading the fine line between a total abstrac- tion based on formal elements, and the optical reality which is present, Kahn twists and turns w~th the ideas and images he tr~es to. master. Applying color with a lush taste, he fuses in a. 3 Dr. Hemenway Undertakes Research On Meteorites By Robert Goldenberg Among the more signHicant and$>------------~-­ interesting activities of the Union College p11ofessor arc th€> nlUlll?r- -ous extracurricular l'PsPare.h projects that are carried on after teaching .hours. ThE>se projE>cts cover a wide range of topics I\ang- ing from .items od' intert>st to .fht· humanitarian to those of import- ance in the national scil'Iltific pic- ture. The CONCORDIENSIS, therefore, will pres<>nt a st>l'iPs ~f articles in an atu>mpt to bring these varying pr'OjPcts to the. at- tention of th€' coiiPgP c>ommunity. One of the many extra activi- ties of Union's Professors is the undertaking of research pmjects. These are usually in the field of the professor's choice and usually deal with a subject :;tbout which little is known. Dr. Curtis L. Hemenway of the Physics Depart- ment is now engrossed in such a project. Project Concerns Astronomy Dr. Hemenway's project falls in the field of astronomy. He is presently observing and gathering knowledge about micrometeorites, particles that enter our atmos- phere from outer space. During a three year period, Dr. Hemen- way has made some important discover·ies, which has given U.S. scientists valuable information. Now he is photographing, elec- tromieroscopically, the meteor particles. Dr. Hemenway says, \we have gained a good substan· tial knowledge, but is far from complete and we hope to find a good deal n1ore.\ The micrometeors are collected from outer space, the atmosphere, and terra. firm itself. The Air Force has sent up experimental rockets to gather particles and their next scheduled flight' is to be held on April, 1960. Particles total experience, both the mood and the values therein. Areas work together, and yet diffuse \regular\ elements to the verge of total disappearance. Free- dom and a feeling of movement result from the contracts and rhythms, while the prevailing idea, at all times, remains. To miss this showing would be a real mistake. Whether one con- siders himself a critic or even one able to accept the often \wild\ moderns, is really 'of no import- ance at all. Even if one knows nothing at all about the field lit- tle matter. What better ·way to learn, than to see and open your mind and pry and dig into that which is, of itself, so very worth- while? If Old Chapel is not on your daily beat, I can only recom- mend a slight detour. . are also collected by high altitude balloons and fr·om mountain tops. Dr. Hemenway has presented a number o'f papers to the American Astronomical ~ociety and the American Meteorilogical Society, and has had some of his papers published in Russia. The project has about five more years until completion, by which time Dr. Henwnway hopes to have gathered all information that can be learned about the partides. It is inter- esting to note that Union students have hau the opportunity to work on the project with Hemenway during their summers. FPels Teaching is Main Purp'Ose To the que>stion of whether or not Dr. Hemenway felt that the tcaening load he had to carry hampered his research project, lie earnestly replied, \I like to teach and even though I would get more done, I am reluctant to give up my main pui\pose in life, teach- ing. It is a conflict of interests. Most professors teach and partici- pate in a research project at the same time.\ Dr. Hemenway is a graduate of Colby College and received his Ph.D. from Rutgers University. He has received a sabbatical grant from Harvard to further his work and spent this past summer at Yale working on astronomy. Be- fore coming to Union, Dr. Hem- enway was a student associate at Colby and taught for three years at Rutgers. He has been teaching at Union since 1949, while also acting as Resident Director of Dudley Observatory in Albany. o--- Larrabee Elected Library Trustee Professor Harold .A. Larrabee was elected a trustee of the new Mohawk Valley Library Associa- tion, composed of public libraries in the three counties of Schenec- tady, Sch?harie, and Montgomery at a meetmg held at the Schenec- tady County Public Libvary on Monday, November 30th. The board of trustees of the new tri- county system is composed of eleven members, five of whom are from Schenectady, each serving for five years. In order to stag- ger the term, the first trustees will serve for terms of different lengths, with Dr. Larrabee being chosen for the five-year term. The purpose of the tri-county system is to widen and strengthen library service throughout the area by making the services of the large city library available by contract with the smaller li- braries. It has been made possi- ble by the State Library Law of 1958. The engineer who can do extra work would not have done it within the 'bounds defined by the proposed program and thel'efore would not have received a degree with honors. Another factor which influenced the Engineering De- partment to vote negatively was the fact that the program recog- nized only one type of honors work. Professor Lowen pointed out that an engineer who is re- quired to take 146 credit hours could have all A's and not receive an honors notation on his degree while a liberal arts student who took honors work would still have only 126 credits and could receive all B's and still graduate with hdnors. He felt that the program On That Rainy _._.._..Day Open Daily I 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. .SYRACUSE SEMESTER· In Di_d you know that Joseph Priestley's the- ones on oxygen, life-essential of air were formed while observing bubbles rising to the surface of a vat of beer in an English brewery? Dicl you know that John Alden was asked to join the M ayjlower company because he was a cooper by trade and could take care of the barrels in which the ves- sel's beer was carried? Marry Me Melanie ••• and I'll buy the Wedding Rin~ at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay St. We can rely on their 3 generation reputation. Peter A unique foreign study program sponsored by Syracuse University American college students are offered ·an op- portunity' to enrich their education with a for- eign experience and, at the same time, com- plete their ooll61ge course in four y-ears. No language prerequisite. \Home stay\ arrang~d with Itallam family in Florence. Write For Booklet SS-1 UNIVERSITY COLLEGE ()F SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 610 E. Thyette St., Syracuse 3, New York Did you know that. Knickerbocker's the frostiest, smoothest-tastin' beer in town? If you haven't tried it lately, try it now! It's brewed to satisfy your beer thirst better! NEW YORK'S FAMOUS BEER JACOB RUPPBRT 1 N. Vo C.

\!'.; I . I 't i ·q I- , ' ~ Friday, December 4. 1959 4 A Retiring Professor Union Attend~.lJ!C ~aucus Wrestling Dropouts Held Thanksgtvrng tnNYC Dwindle Mat Squad H. C. Coffin: A Profile By La.wr£>nC{' Lenkhn!'r 111 !tee ping with the situation~-­ wlhlch will o.ee three of Union's finest profest>Ol's, Drs. Coffin, Smith and Larrabee, retire at Ott' end of the 1!!59-60 academic 3 Ntr, CON'()OltiJI.t;N81S presents a series of tlu·ee profile<; describing tb.ese men. The fir, t article d~>al\ '1\-ith 1'1·ofesS{fr llai·rison C. Coffin. ----------------- On Friday evening, November 27, 1500 delegates, including a contingent from Union headed by- Dean of Bruce Allison's wrestling team does not have the Sh1dents 0. Edward Pollock, attended the golden anni- glittering .appearance this fall that it had last year at the versary conference of the<®>- end of a fine 7-3 season. Although the team's captain National Inter-fraternity University spoke on the experi- Charlie Bruce {who came in®·---------~--­ Council at the Waldorf As~ ence in self government gained by second in the 123 pound :the 167 lb. Class. Tewksbury will toria in New York City. On fraternity members_ He stressed class at the 41 tournament be trading his .football attire for th d b his opinion that \on a. small scale, . Cl I d) wa·s lost .. sneakers and tights. Harrison C. Coffin is not an especially large man in frame, buL one Joolt at the man as he saun- ters throughout the campu.o re- veals the forcefulness of h1s char- acter. The brushy mustache peer- ing out from under wired specta- cles remind one perhaps of the age-old conception of a stern switch--carrying school teacher. His speech and manner is rathtH' blunt and to the pomt and at all times the individual or group that Coffin is addressmg knows ju.ot where the professor ::;tands. e agen a were a nuro er the fraternity system offers to its m eve all . · •. The biggest personage in Alli- of speeches concerning the members experience in dea:ling through graduation, four of· son's aggregation will be Dean difficulties of fraternities with the most persistent problem Allison's five best men were • Sqldiner. Dean, who tips the and colleges. of federalism: the reconciliation .supposed· to be returning , scales at a whopping 265 pounds, of local autonomy with central th' , will be the only heavyweight on A l:nionite Since 1920 Dr. Coffin has been present on the Union campus since the fall of 1920, arriving in the wake of varied experiences. Between the years 1916, when he received his B.A. with high honor::;, and 1920, he taught, served two years in the Chemical Warfare Division of the Army as a non-com, and achieved his M. A. and Ph.D. degrees. This is just one indication of the amount of energy the man pos- se~ses. HA~RISON C. COFFIN Greek was then going to give hourly lectures in all subjects from Engineering Mechanics, to Gt·eck and Roman History. There iH a strong possibility that the man could manage it. On ::-<ovember 18 the New York Brunch of the Union Alumni Association at a dinner at Colum- bia, presented Dr. Coffin with an a! um ni certificate for \Devoted Sc>rvice to Union College.\ Is Prolific Committt>e>man Coffin has not only been active in academic matters, but has also been a member of so many com- mittees that he himself cannot re- member them all when asked. A trip ovet· to Wells House and a glance at the files, show a long Jist covering a complete page. On the bottom, the phrase, \and others,\ is found. Many of the courses in departments other than Coffins', originated in the latters mind, as he was one of the more prolific members of the commit- tee which set up the ne\v curricu- lum of 1946. The President of Indiana Uni- authority. The initiate, however · IS yeal. Allison~a squad. Big things are versity, Herman B. Wells, spoke 1 d · d'ff B t B · · · th . much inc. ine to m 1 erenee, can u , ruce 1s smgmg a ra · er· expected of hitn. on the importance of intellectual 1 f ld th' · th t \Oh scarce y escape an awareness o o song · 1s year a goes: Mindy Weodruff and Art Good- activity in fraternities. He pointed d t ·t• 1 1 t' f M the boun ary lines which separa e 1 s a ong, ong 1me rom ay man will carry the colors for Un- out that the goals of our present the powers of the local chapters I to December.\ In the intervening ion in the 17'1 pound class. Al- day fraternities find their root in from such controls as the national time, undefeated, Clem Crow has though both men are ine~perienc­ the first greek letter fraternity, organization may constitutionally left school, and Dixie Ber~an ed, tl:ley are strong and agile and Phi Beta Kappa. The object of exercise.\ · and Pete Levasque have dec1ded are improving daily, such a system is that the activ- Johnston Tallu; qn Education to forego wrestling and tackle :u~~e Opener Against ·RPI ities of fraternities should center their studies, leaving Pete Adasel{ n~v ... about an intellectual nature. Wells Eric Johnston, President of the as the only outstanding returning also pointed out that fraternities Motion Picture AssociaUon of grappler. are in an ideal position to become America, emphasized the plight of \centers of intellectual life in American education. He reminded Hatfield Has Returned which students may mutually the conference attendees of .the On the ·lighter side, Al'!ison has stimulate and assist -ea<!h other in shortage o! classrooms and teach- a few new men who will bolster the exciting enterprize of learn- ers. Johnson also expressed dis- his squad. Net Hatfield, who was ing.\ In other words, why should- satisfaction with the indifferent incapacitated last season, will be n't this become part of the fun of attitude of everyone to this crisis. wrestling in the 157 pound dass fraternity life. He said, \Then came Sputnik and and will pro.bably return to the In short, Wells stated; all of the later the Soviet moon strike. regular position that he held two f · f f Surely these should have shaken years ago. act1ons o raternity life: sports, us out of our nat 1 ·onal 1 ·ndl\ffer- . 1 t' -t· d f · dsh' Two newcomers in the light- ~~~~~mp~~~~t~~t ~~e in~~~~ctu~ ence to the national school crisis. weight class who will probably see activity that was the chief aim of Bu.t did they?\ Johnston con- a good deal of action· this year are our first fraternity should at least clu.ded his speech by emphasizing Dave Zelie and Steve Spencer. be brought up on an even par the fact that the teacher-class- Both are fast moving and should with the rest. room shortage still remains and serve to brighten an otherwise the Russians are rapidly overtak- bleak yeat'. Dr. John A~ Krout, vice presi- ing us with their .. forced-draft\ Dave Tewksbury and John Cag- dent and provost of Columbia program of education. giano will see action this year in • Announcing With the home opener on De- cember 9 ·against RPI, Allison may .be hoping for Levasque and Bergman to return .but last year he was a:ble to transform several neophytes into ·seasoned winners and the chances are good that he will do it again this year. An away date at Brooklyn Poly who we shut out last year, and another home meet against powerful Col- gate aggregation will be the only other contests 'before the Christ- mas recess. A 2-1 s·pli t in our favor would give the team a good start toward a winning season; a 1-2 ::>plit, on the other hand, should not be fatal. Unio!l'S mat- men should take two of their first three encounters with the Colgate match up for grabs. • Nor is Professor Coffin an anti- g,uated individual as his titles of Chairman of the Department of Ancient Classics and Frank Bailey Professor of Greek might lead one to assume. One of his most self- satisfying activities at Union has been as an advisor to pre-medical students, who have interests in the humanities. This brings out Coffin's general educational theor- ies. He believes that all learnings should be integrated, so that the student may achieve balanced education. It is easy to see why Coffin has spent these past four decades at this balanced institu- tion. His \Evolution\ is Standout Professor Coffin is leaving Union at the close of this aca- demic year, and one can be sure that his absence will be hard felt a comprehensive Postgraduate Education Program for engineers, scientists and mathematicians The courses that Coffin has taught in the past 40 years are, wide and varied, but there is one which stood out as a tribute to the educator. It was I. D. 36, a course in which he collaborated with Leonard B. Clark, head of the Biology Department, in an effort to picture evolution scien- tifically, historically, and cultur- ally. It is In this manner that Dr. Coffin approaches any and all studies. Rather than look into a vast room through a key hole, he builds four picture windows on all sides and looks in through all of them. It has been a standard rib throughout the campus, that the college, in an effort to save money, was going to let all profes- sors go, and retain only Coffin. The Frank Bailey Professor of When In New York VisitQtl)ipp 14 E. 44th St. • New York 17, N.Y. MUrr~y Hill 7-0850 by students, administration, fac· Ulty and alumni alike. ---0 All students should read carefully the pre-registration notice for the second semester. It has been sent to fraternities and dormitories. It is also posted on Bulletin Boards and in the buildings. All adjust- ments in schedules must be completed before the Christmas recess, December 18. ~------------- FOR CAR TROUBLES SEE A UNION MAN William H. Plath Auto Service 1372 Union St. Schenectady Dl 6-4895 ..------------- FERRO'S REST AU RANT Specializing in ltalion•Ameriean Food Discount for Union Studenis 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. -----~--------------------- 1960 VESPA •400' PRECISION ENGINEERED •60 miles per gal. •Independent Deep Coli 4- Wheel Susp~n­ slon. •Air Cooled *4 mo. - 4,()00 mi. guarantee .------· MOTOR SCOOTERS from $359 130 m.p.g. 3 mo. - 3,000 mi. guarantee Scooter Accessories ··------ $1080 incl. HEATER and DEFRoSTER, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS, ELECTRIC WIPERS, UNDERCOAT JAF MOTORS INC. m1 BROADWAY, SCHENECTADY N Y Near G. E. Subway - Foot of Broadway Hill Phone EX 3·2621 - Week days 9-9 - Saturday 9-6 Accessories, Parts and Service ------------------~--------· • Ever since the founding of the company some forty years ago, IBM has recognized education as an integral and continuing part of a professional person's life. Through formal educational programs within the company, and through affiliations with universities, it has long been possible for IBM employees to earn scholastic credits. N aw a com pre· hensive Postgraduate Education Program, surpassing any previous program, has been initiated at IBM for plant and laboratory personnel. ADVANCED DEGREE UNIVERSITY PLAN A qualified engineer, scientist or mathematician, who h.as been with IBM at least a year, may compete-for a fellowship or a scholarship in se- lected fields at the univer~ity which he believes offers the finest oppor- tunities for advanced study. All bene- fits that would normally accrue if the candidate were on active employ- ment will be retained. • Doctoral Fellowships: Selected can· didates will receive full tuition, fees and regular salaries for full-time study up to three years. • Masters' Scholarships: Selected can- didates will receive full tuition, fees and regular salaries for an academic year of_ full-time study. ADVANCED DEGREE ON-SITE PLAN A qualified engineer, scientist, or mathematician may undertake part- time graduate studies at an IBM plant or laboratory, concurrent with active employment. • Mastp;rs' Degrees: Candidates may complete their studies at company expense under various programs operated in conjunction with uni- versities near IBM facilities. ADVANCED STUDY PLAN (NONDEGREE) These studies offer continued edu- cational opportunity throughout · a career at IBM. They are not generally degree-oriented. Given at or near IBM facilities, they are designed to help retain mastery over basic engi- neering, science, and mathematical subjects and to gain knowledge in advanced fields such as number theory, finite mathematics, magne- tism, solid state physics, and network analyses. For a descriptive folder about the new IBM Postgraduate Education Program, wl'ite to: MANAGER OF ENGINEERING EDUCATION; DEPT. 843, IBM CORPORATION 590 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK 22, N. Y. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION \ : l I • . ·~; 1 i . ·' ···\, '' I. ~.-• Friday Carl Garnet an equ tom orr P. IVI., House. BluestE Pelton tempt win of Witze· game t .some ex The ad< the D'ut backbo~ last yea in the Middleb Bluestei and fol\ usually shoo tin! maintai Pel ·ClassE the peri duo of They co half th Middle!: weak SJ scored t wards~ One < is the game p Sh{}t a.! game . game ii Dutch:r;r: type of fast br Even t times, 1 enough number Altho seemed it must fouled game. ' 38 free statistic defense occurre tried t their tt necessa qff-bal~ ·person~ ture, bt ing mil Cal) 68-l The every1 ball ~ night inaug1 years bury tor's back 1 zel's 1 coachi With Pelton 20 poi Pan thE a .fine made averag backb< enougl edge·~ victore shots ' the G! Br:u< Mike J uted s near-\1 to u~ held a tennis took c a.t the Blue Bob J late ~ this t Middlt boar& ments, VetE ior, p1 points The P tribut. doublE The with throur sill tin, four 1 'Marsl ed IJ>y a disa play it nine 1 sqore1

the the y will for Am- Dean the on are Good- Un- A!- and n De- and year inners he An who Col- e only our good eason; hand, s mat- their the \ : l I • . ·~; 1 i . ·' ,,,,, '' I. I ., r· ,, ::;. I. . I I Friday, Dec:ember 4, lt59 Garnet To Host Statesmen In Second Season Outing Carl Witzel and his eager<$>• ---------------------~­ Garnet quintet are to host an equally eager Hobart five tomorrow night, at 8:00 P. IVI., in Memorial Field House. Led by forward Mike Bluestein and guard Johnny Pelton the. squad wHl at- tempt to garner their first win of the y<mng season. Wit:z;el's men will be favored at game time for several reasons, .some e:x:pected, but yet surprising. The advantage is to be found iil the Dutchmen's ability to rule the backbo!l.rds. Rarely out-rebounded· last year, they continued the habit in the season's opener against Middlebury. Top rebounders are Bluestein, center Chuck MarShall and forward Ken Hoyt. Union has· usually ·been able to hold a shooting eye on the hoop maintain a high scoring pace. Pelton and Walsh Excel ·Classed as a 'happy surprise is the performance of the backcourt duo of Pelton and Bruc~ Walsh. They co.mbined to score more than half the points amassed against Middlebury. Thought to be the weak spot of the team they out- scored the more ·highly touted for- wards :and centers. One change that fans will note is the overall <lifference in the game play. Last year th.e Garnet sb{}t as many as 90 shots per game. 'During the Middlebury game it became obvious that the Dutchmen were playing :a control type of ball with only occasional fast brealt-s . .and: long shooting. Even though they Shot o-nly 58 times, Garnet accuracy was high enough tl;} proquce an adequate number of goals. Although tne team's defense seemed tight-knit at first glance, it must be noted that t:bree men fouled out of the M:iddlebury game. The tea.JU, as a w'hole, gave 38 free throws to the foe. Such statistics are evidence of lax team defense. A great number of fouls occurred when foreco11rt men. tried to cover the mistakes of their teammates. '!1hey were not necessarily glaring errors. The off-balance defense committed · personal fouls of the slightest n:a.- ture, but they were still point-giv- ing mistakes. -----0<--- Cagers Downed 68-65ln Opener The Union cage:rs won everything but the basket- ball game last Wednesday night in dropping their first inaugural contest in four years to a strong Middle- bury club, 68-65 at the vic- tor's home court. The set- back spoiled Coach Carl Wit- zel's college b a s k e t b a II coaching debut. Coach carl Witzel points ont the fme points of b~t.ll handling to Chuck Marshall as Jolm. McGan-y and Peter Ka.rp I!ook on. Mermen Have D:epth For Twelfth Winning Season By Jollil LubetJtin Shooting for their twelfth straight winning season coach Ed Fedosky's swim1ning team seems to have the necessary depth to improve on .last year's mediocre 5-4 record. ' ~------------------ The Mermen will be lead b::y yard breaststroke junior letterman senior record breakers Ed Ruth Howie Adams is baclt and will be and Jim ;MacDonald, five othn- backed by sophomore Steve Dia- returning letterm-en and six: sopb.\ mond. A New York City high omores. The tough ten-meet school champion, Diamond shows sche<lule, which starts January ~ unlimited potential, but has yet to against 'Buffalo State, will ais<J. master recent collegiate rule see the addition of a new eve11t, chang-es. the 200 yard individual medley. The new 200 yard individual ·Besides Buffalo State the Mer- medley will pose a real problem to men will go against Hamilton, .coach Fedosky. Adopted by the University of Buffalo, Univer.sit:y NCAA this past spring it consists of Rochester, RPI, Wesleyan, of one person going fifty yards in King's Point, Trinity, N.Y.U., and the backstroke, breaststroke, but- Williams. Wesleyan and the Uni- terfly and freestyle (crawl). At versity of Buffalo are new addi- tions to the Garnet sciiedule. Will! the moment sophomore Diamond the four clubs back on the schell- seems set for this position. Second ule who the Dutchmen lost to last man might be Ed Ruth, or Hen- year, the possibilities of a super- derson or Buckman. ior year are indefinite. The Mer- Strength is in Distance men will be at home against Again this year Dutchmen King's Point and are alread.:y strength lies in the fre-estyle looking forward to avenging last events. Distance champion Ruth year's heartbreaking four polat has not lost since the middle of loss. Trinity again appears to ~e his sophomore year, and MacDon- a well balanced team and its ag- ald was defeated only once in dual pearance here over the winter ·competition last year. Backing prom weekend should see one .of· these two up will be senior letter- the closest meets in recent years. men Scott Flanagan, a distance NYU and Wi.lliaims Strong man, John Lubetkin, sprints and middle distance, and jun~or letter Chances of taking N.Y. U. all.d winner Glenn Pt'ibus, a sprinter. Williams appear poor at the mo- ment. The Violets from New York The Dutchmen's 400 yard med- have finally managed to hold Ie:V relay team remains indefinite. down enough good swimmers a<>, A possible starting ·team is Hen- despite constant academic trou- derson or Pribus backstroke, bles, they should be one of tbe Adams breaststroke, Meyer but- most powerful teams in the East. -terfly, and Diamond or Pribus A more liberal policy towards freestyle. 5 Union Athletic .Situation Snow Flurries Football Captain Reports By Carl Valentine carl Valentine, in his e;apacity as football CJ{)-captain and Student Council representative, .recently attended a dinner given by Professor Wilford H. Ketz to discuss the athletic situation here at Union Col-· By Leslie Marrus lege, The foUowing rep()l't concerns iR;;elf with Mr. Valentine's lopin· · Following football seas.on it ions on the question of student interest in sports participation. These seems axiomatic that sports edi- views are an amalgamation of thsoe points brought up at the meet.. tors will feel \comvelled to comL ing and MI:. Valentine~s personal experience as a football player. ment on the past season or on some aspect of the game. College sports editurs are not exempt H~w can intet'collegiate ath- letics be improved at Union? This topic was discussed by the team captains, coaches, and .a .Student Council committee recently at a dinner meeting sponsored by the Athletic department in conjunc- tion with the Student Council on Monday, November 30. The meet- ing wa.s an initial step in the re- evaluation of Union's athletic pro- gr~. The most important topic of dis- cussion was on the question of the manner in which the various campus g!'ou-ps could best encour- age more active a.nd enthusiastic student participation iri' athletics. According to Mr. Ketz one quar- ter of the student body partici- pated in intercollegiate athletics last year. Even though there was this degree of student participa- tion the football team ha<l a squad numbering only 23 at the close of the season. The soccer team had a squad of 17 men and the cross country team had just eight men on its roster. The fact re- mains, however, that a football team of 23 is just too small to operate effectively. RPI has con- sidered dropping football from their sj}orts roster and their squad was larger than ours. Union has never seriously entertained this thought, but the question arises- should we? Do we have too many sports activities so that there is a re- sultant thinning of the ranks-an insufficient number of men to support 13 teams? During the Fall season this manpower short- age is not a critical problem be- cause not many cross country or soccer men would play football, even if it was the lone varsity sport in this season. You will find, however, thl!,t overlap does occur in the Spring when you have many sports activities in a shortened season. An important quesUon, for which no valid answer has been found, is why men of good ath- letic ability Cand there are many on campUS) don't go out for the teams. Are training rules too rigorous; would they interfere with one's accustomed social pat- tern? Does fraternity loyalty burt college athletics? These rea- sons, which are frequently cited for the poor student snowing in sports participation, are by no means the causitive agents in this situation. Certain intangibles en- ter into the picture which pre- vent the use of any such general- izations. It is possible to formulate a positive program designed to in- crease student participation in athletics. Fraternities can insist that each of their men, who .maintains the college's required index of . • ta.lr.e part in one or two extra-curricular activities. The HPC could recommend that each house adopt such a policy. In line with th.is p1•oposal the alumni could pressure their re- spective houses into being more active in the area of sports par· ticipation. Secondly, Delayed Rushing from this generalization. would be helpful to fraternity men, who would be freed from The considerable criticism that house obligations in the early part has been heaped upon the should- of the year, and thus would be ers of collegiate football of late able to participate In other col- can be traced to the loose ethics legiate activities and it would pro- of a small group of coaches, alum- vide the incoming freshman with ni and college administrators who the ·opportunity to get off to a ·are giving college athletics a bad good start in some other phase 1·eputation; one of campus sports of campus life i>efore being side- professionalism. This blight of tracked by \fraternity spirit and adverse commentary centers loyalties.'' Furthermore the fresh- around the institution of \athletic men who showed an inclination scholarships.\ toward intercollegiate sport::; The National C'ollegia.te Athletic would be viewed with greater in- Association permits colleges to terest by the fraternities and . offer \athletic scholarships\-a would stand a better chance of system which is fundamentally getting into the house of their sound, for the scholastic I'equire- choice. ln line with the other · ments they specify are strict. This b·enefits of Delayed Rushing the a.id may not exceed room, board, freshmen would see that the time tuition, books and 15 dollars a element is not an insurmountable month. Transpo.I'tati.on for the barrier to sports participation. atallete to and from home is not Thirdly, the effect of :personal permitted; nor is entertainment contact between those men par- for his parents or girl friend. Fin- ticipating in a sport and the fresh- ancial help to the boy or his fain- men cannot be over-estimated. ily from alumni is forbiddeJ:t, as The capta:ins should encourage the are jobs where the work is non- entire team to talk with those existent or the pay excessive. men that they feel would help Probably 90 percent of college the team. The personal contact ·athletes conform completely to would serve to :fire the spark of these standards. The .big tl:'ouble interest in those men who would ·comes among the top ten percent not otherwise try-out for a team. -,the triple-threat baclts, seven- Lastly, greater respect on the foot basketball centers and under- part of the student body for team ten-second sprinters. Demand for members would encourage great- these top-drawer athletes always er sports partieipation. It was greatly exceeds the supply, so col- generally felt t:hat strict adher- leges compete for them and some ence to training rules would aid colleges cheat. in gaining student respect. These When a college decides to buy rules should be enforced by the athletes, probably the most com- team ·itself. A team can bring a · mon method is for alwnni to get great deal of pressure to bear on the boy an overpaid summer job. a fellow who is breaking train- There's nothing illegal abO>ut giv- ing, if the team feels that the ing a vacation job tlo a. fullback, training rules should be adhered as long as ·he receives the g.oing to. The captain should be re- rate. But paying him $3,00() or sponsible for his team-mates con- $4,000 a summer for factory work duct and should keep the coach is obviously out of line. informed as to the participant's Sometimes an alumnus prom- obedience to the rul~s. Yet this ises to deposit an agreed sum of system is rarely put into effect money in a bank for a boy after because an unfavorable report graduation. This gets around the may result in tlle dismissal of a document many conferences re- team member. Here is an ideal quire athletes to sigp., saying that situatioi\ in wil:ich to apply the· they are receiving no compensa- Honor System. tion beyond permissible help. It Reaction to the meeting by. also explains why certain foot'- tho re ent Xt 1 fav ball players turn up with big cars se p s was e reme y - ft orable. Another meeting is slated soon a er graduation. to be held some time in January A growing nm:nlber of c•orpora.- to continue the discussion of the t1Uns subsidize athletes indirectly by promising them good jobs after sports program at Union. (Continued on Page 6) ROTH'S Restaurant and Deli cates sen I 0% Discount for Union Students 504 State St. FR 7-2110 ..................................... ., BesYService in Town Schuhl Esso Service 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the Best Gas in Town --------------------------~ With jump shot artist .Johnny Pelton pacing the Dutchmen with 20 points, Union outscored the Panthers 28-22 from the field with a .fine record of 28 for 58 shots made or a 48.7 percent scoring average. They domln:ated tlle backboards, 40-29, but ii was not enough to overcome the Panthers edge at the foul line vrhere the victors collected 23 of their 38 shots compared to 9 out of 14 for scholarships should give GarnEt The 400 yard freestyle relay fans a fine showing of wllat team looks more powerful than money can do when the Violets ever. The. nucleus of th~ ol~ rec- swim here. Williams traditional ord-breakmg team remams mtact New England smail c;Ilege cham- with seniors :Lube.tldn! M~cDon­ pion would seem to be as stroog aid, and Ruth swllnmmg m the as e~er. 1st, 3rd and 4th starting positions. Despite the loss of four o11t- Wh.o .will J:ill the othef:' sl~t is not standing lettermen, seniors Peie defmxte, but the rapxd xmpr?ve- Herman and Dal Trader, and jun- ~ent of ~ophomore Strong gJ.ve.s iors Buddy Hoffer and Pete Guis- hxm a defmxte chance for the post- tra, the .Mermen have a s1ight.ly (Continued aon Page S) ANGELO'S RESTAURANT I I I $.20 on the Dollar for Anything You Have for Students : Also Dates or Family I the Garnet. Walsh Hits fo.r 15 Bruce Walslt chipping in 15 and Mike Bluestein adding 13, -contrib- uted significantly to th~ Garnet's near-Win, The Dutchmen led 17 to 14 at the ten minute inark, and held a six ·point lead, W-33, at in- termission, before iMiddlebury took over for good, scoring 54-5? at the end of the third Jlerlod. Bluestein, Chuck M!U'shall and Bob Holland fouled o.ut in the late going,. and the absence of this trio of !Six-footers enabled Middlebury to <laminate .the .back- boards in the final crucial mo- larger squad than. last year and ........................... 111 ,., ................ 11 .... apparently more depth, Main Garnet weaknesses lie in HA. N·K'S the back and butterfly events. Al- though ·the line-up is far\\from def- inite at the moment it seems th.at TYDOL STATION letterman Lew Buckman and Jerry Mayer will handle the 2:00 AUTO •R'EPAIR'S yard butterfly event, and sop~o- mores Ralph Collins, Dave Hen- derson and Steve Strong altern~r.te All Union Men Welcome in the backstroke event. Diving, a real weakness last year, will see Eric Teicho!:z; and 135 NOTT TERRACE Don Crist go for the Dutchttlen. Neither has competed before, ~ut FR 7-67.7b both show enough skill to give .IJle Merlll.en a real boost. In the 200 UUIUUIUIUUUIIUIII•••nunauuu'aund': 160 LAFAYETTE ST. \Where Chapel'meets La.!ayette\ FRanklin 2-0501 Jay 1135 BARRETT ST. Dl 6-9261 . FREE PARKING WEEK DAYS Open II A.M. to I A.M. FRI. & SAT. Open II A.M. to 3 A.M. I I I I I I ~----------------~----~---J Jewelry Co. ments. Veteran !Chuck Rand, 6 , 5 , sen-· ~::::~: ......... , .................. , ............... nu•u•••••••••n•••••u•••••••~•••••-•••n•••••un•. ior, weed the host club with 22 Down to Louis', let us go_. points, 12 coining on free tosses. The Panther scoring was vrell dis-. Let the lager freely flow. tributed, with three men hitting double ngur· eOJ. A unique place to dine v.rith old European Atmosphere 315 STATE STREET Diamonds ... w1~~e tb~a:~~ato:s~~:u:J~~~ ~=~· NICHOLAUS RBSTAURANT throughout most of the tilt; re- S \ J d sillting in the cautiow play of ince 1895 -Corner 266 State ana Erie B v • =s:n~a!~;~&~ti}:~f;. ~~:.·~=-=· Large parties accommodated in cJifr ed IJ>y this threat and was h.eld to _ RATHSKELLER. a disappo-int:i.ng six points. ;:;.t:e~w~r- Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Sav~ngs. Eliminate the lmporte~r and Whol·esaler. . Arn(jld Fisher '50 playing senior Ken !HCJyt, . • · nine points, to rounu out the top 5 For reservatil>n~ phone FR 4-8917 • sq:o~eM. ·= ;.., _ .: l!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~l IJIU liiiii81111IIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIII IIIII ~ llll.lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllallllillllll 11111!11111~ .·

1, .)o Friday, D_ecen~~er 4. 1'959 6 Storm-Door Adds Change To Washburn European Work ProJ .ect Explored· Flurries ·.~~~~~~ceo~\!sr;~~t~~~~~~ :~d • • •· · . eventually to pubUc disgust with (Continued from Page- 5) the game-or it can ·accept its is the native. ':fhus, being In the they graduate. Tben there's· the': responsi'bilities a_nd ea~n a worth- same economi~ position as his business of paying a boy's travel wh1!e pla?e for 1tself 1n the field By Martin Benjamin \Lack of proficiency in a foreign language should not deter you from working abroad-it's an experience you can never get 1il any other situation,\ according to Roy Neuer of Glenford, New York, a senior in the combined liberal arts and Roy felt that working with these other students had both ad-. vantages and disadvantages. Con-. tact with ·people from countries other than Germany naturally' widened his scope; but because ali except one of them spoke Eng- lish, they tended te use it as their ·common language and lhu~ did not devr;}op a .great degree of pro- ficiency in the German tongue. Nevertheless, from the stand·point of international understanding and goodwi!l, the advantage of working with these students from otner lands heavily outweighs any German co-wol'l~er, Roy was re- expenses to and from· home sev-· of education. garded with trust and friendship. eral times a year, And, fln,aJly,.. Th': poin~ to b~ made is'not.that Through ·conversation with mem- rumnni slush funds are used to ·nefanous . pr,aotices_ ~e wtdely bers of Germany's industrial class, pay for sucb unde.r-tb.e-table in-:. employed m the recrwtmg of col· h,e was able to gain. va:Iua'ble in- ducements as car rentals cloth-'· lege athletes, but. that the ·purpose sight into the values and the <)Ut- il~g, apartments f(]·r :ma.rri~d play-' o'.f footba.Il in tile Amerlc~ eo.I- look of the people. He found, for ers, Cll1.a;rge accounts .at stores, •: lege sc~e must ~ k~pt t<1 1ts ~e instance, that the German woi:'ker It' t diffi it t t funds IHlJ:spective. Tills ca.Iculaied vtew By Robert Galvin engineering program. s no . cu 0 ge . of collegiate football DQES NOT has little regard for world affairs: for such. purposes~ :Much of the . exclude the emplo,ynmnt of fin- and has a. very materialistic out-. money 1s offered_ ·by men w~o·. anciallnducements in the recruit- look. The German today seeks would be sh?cked .1f asked to VlO- ing ,of top-flight ,athletes. F'mit more and more those things whiCh late. the eth1cs of the!~ own pro- one must asoorta.in tile value of will make his life easier and· more fess10ns, yet see nothmg wrong . •n·~·•ft f tb~'l ·n P leasant, Roy believes. · · 1 t' th NO·• •· d mmp. ... u=~g oo \\ as a oo eg- m v1o a mg e ~ co e. . • iate snort and. then the ·questio111. Arrangements for his particular t tb. a1 .,- \This new entranceway was made necessary becau:Hl n1y office door faces due west, ft•om which diTection come the pr.evailing winds,\ explained Dean of Stu- dents 0. Edward Pollock, refer- rmg to the recent construction of a small cnt:rance hall to his office m Washburn Hall. Ac- cording to Dean Pollock, corn- plaint:; by his oftice staff prompt ed him to commun:icate with l.u• lege Business Manager Theodore Mcllwaine regarding a suitable sto1·m door ty·pe of structure. Roy spent the past summer ..-orking in a silverware and ta- Jleware manufacturing company 10 southern Germany. He felt that the principal value of his ex- job wer~ taken care of by the In~ Not only mus . e . ~· of proper recruitillg methods can Contact Witll Worlrers VaJUJable ternational Association for the Ol)aches, and college admrmstra,. be decided upon. tions give a long secon<l thought · ----o---~ Excha;nge of Techn·ical Students, to tlteir rooruitnient practice~>, but · disadvantage. The latest edition to Unwn's seven nullion dollar physical plant measures 39 inches by 35 inches and is several feet high. The door is 25 inches m width and is fash· ioned of alummum. Although glass is presently m:;talled in tht door, it can be replaced with screening dul'ing the summer months. It i;:; :;inular to the com- bination ;:;torm-screen doors seen on many homes Ill the area. perience was in becoming famil- The summer work program ben· iar with the character of the· efits the student most directly, 'new\ Gem1any and in working Neuer said, by bringing him into clostlly with people f·rom various daily personal contact with the other lands. very heart of the host nation- Working with him in the same the working classes. There is an factory wet·e six other students: unusual attitude on the part of two Egyptians, two English stu- the native towards the woi\king dents, a Swede, and a Finn, none student. Many foreign nationals of whom had taken more than a tend to regard the American stu- year of classroom German. How- dent or tourist as a rather loud ever, all but the Finn had a work- but wealthy breed of pest who is ing knowledge of English, and to be tolerated only for his buying since many of the young people power. They are often reluctant, in Germany spealt English, com- therefore, to converse freely with munication did not pose as great him. The working student, how- a barrier as one would imagine. ever. is earning his bread just as an. ohrganitztationbwthich c~orddinta;~es the spectat()r sport must be Merman • • • sue ma ers e ween m us r1es brought baclt into perspective and students, both ·here and among the poople who. watcil it. (Continued from Page 5) t!on, and also for the butchmen to break· the old record of 3:43. abroad. A lot of alumni who never grew Roy's Ro11.tine Explained up can't envision anything ml}re Despite weaknesses overall :pros- pects are good. T.eam spirit is high, and there is the definite, ~n­ tangi)Jle spirit of being part of a long winning tradition that should push the swimmers ·even further. The record of winn.lng seasons, incidentally, was set between 1924- 1938 when Bill K:etz's cross-coun- try squads avemged less than one loss every two years, Is Fibre-Glass Creation Constructed entirely of fibre glass, the building is orange in color and is framed with metal :;upJ.!ort~. Cpn~u uction requit·ed apptoximatt>ly one full workin,; day. Cust of the new ,;tructure wa~ nut available at pres~ tlnle. NSA. ~. <Continue-d from Page 2) man and informed student, is both the ideal and tangible goal toward 1 which NSA is totally dedicated. 1 Having covered thls description 1 of the basic phllosophy of the Associatl(]n, next week we &hall . turn to the question of just what constitutes the role of a student as a student in order that those who identify themselves with the theoretical position may under- stand their relation to various specific issues. l'nion's campus, the lll'Sl archl- t•·cturally planned cal!lpus in Antt·t·l'<'a, ts cutTt•ntly undl'rgolng: a tlu \\ nullwn dollar <'X'],Janswn program to be completed in 1S70. Fit st plmses Ill the plan are th<' Hictmwnd Dormitory, to be com- ·pletcd next yea!-, and tlw Schaffel Library, now in the planning stage. McKim, Mead and White of New York City, College Archi- tects, must design or avprove all plans for any Cnion Col'lege ·build· mgs_ The dl!;:;lgncr of Dean Pol· lock's entranceway wa.-; not nam· ed. SE.SIORS-ATTE... .... ~IO:S ---0--- OrangeTakes Grid Award Seniors should report to the Col- lege Bookstore to be measured for caps and gowns. The fee is $3.80 payable at the time of measure- ment, and $1.00· will be refunded when the caps and gowns are re· turnPd -- immediately following graduation. Syracuse·'.; power·laden football squad lm~ bcc·n nanwd this year's winn<'r' ·of .the Lambert Trophy. eymholie of the gridiron cham- pionship of thE' East. The unde- fE'atPd Orange t!I-Ul, whlch still - has a gamE' remammf< wtth a tough U.C.L.A. team thls ::;atur- day bPfore their CoHan Bowl en- gagement on New Year's Day, was the unanimous pick of the eight- man committee for the seventh straight wee!' of the ten-week season. Syracuse previously won the massive trophy, donated by Hen- ry and Victor Lambert, New York jewelers, in memory of their fath- er, in 1952 and 1956. Pitt-sburgh <6-4J, Penn State (8-2J, and Navy (5-4-lJ, the sec- ond, thii\d and fourth-place fin- ishers, were also unanimous choice for their positions. Anny <4-l-1) finished a strong fifth, fol- lowed in ordei\ by Boston College <5-4J, Penn, the Ivy League cham- pion <7-1-U, Boston U. (4-5), Holy Cross <6-4), and Dartmouth 15-3-ll. * * * The Deleware Blue Hens, coached by Dave Nelson, to an out-standing 8-1 record this fall, have been unamiously awarded the Lambet·t cup as the outstand- ing small-college team in the East. Delaware, beaten only by un- beaten Bowling Green, a non- Eastern opponent, has been the unanimous selection of the b(]ard for the last eight weeks. Includ- ed in her record is a decisive win over Rutgers, a major college team. Buffalo, I 8-1) last year's win- ner, placed second in the vote. Unbeaten Hofstra (9-0J edged out Lafayette t5-4 for third. Complet- ing the top ten are Connecticut <6-3), Lehigh 14-5J, W<'st Chester <7-1>, Juanita (7-1 >, BueknPll 14-5), and Albright <7-3>. Mike !Jong, a senior end at Brandeis from Marlboro, Mass. the lone rt-peatPr from !a.<Jt year's team. leads th<' o;e!Pctinns for th~ North team of thP Eastern CollPg<' Athletic Conference. The eleven. chosen Wednesday wPre the most frequently nominated as outstand- ing players during the past sea- son. ThP rnmplPIP F.f'Af' Rmall Coll<'g<' ;\'ortll tnm for Hl~9· End\ P··h· C'nva ri. r'olhv. n no Mike Long- TacklPs Rom Rnn<l<'re. Buffalo. and Marv Kuula. R.P.I. Guards-John Guinan, Ithaca. and Tom Chnrvala. Hamilton Cent<>r·--RnQ\f'r J,PC!Pre. Trini-ty. Quarterbacl( -Jo£' Gilbo, Spring- fielrl. Halfbacks--T!'rry Farina, Am- herst, and Henry Luzzi, Southern Connecticut. Fullback-Murdock McDonald, Tufts. ------------ Is there a career for you in the Bell Telephone System? Many Union College graduates have found stimulating, reward- ing careers in the Bell System. Perhaps you will, too. If you are working for an Engineering, Physical Science, Business Ad- min., or Arts & Sciences degree, you are invited to meet with representatives of the com- panies listed below to discuss opportunities in the telephone industry. The dates are Decem- ber 14, 15 and 16, 1959. SE!i YOUR PLACEMENT DIRECTOR ~ FOR AN APPQINTMENT, The following companies will be represented: NEW YCRK TELEPHONE COMPANY NEW JE~SEV BELL - engineering, operatwns, planning and main- tenance of telephones and other communications facilities. Ad- ministrative and other non-tech- nical fields. Initial assignments may lead to more responsible positions in management. BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES• research and development in electrical communications, sys- tems engineering to create fa- cilities for new telephone serv- ices. National defense projects. Administrative and other non- technical fields. WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. -manufac- turing, pmchasing, installation, distribution and field engineer- ing. Development .. and design. National defense projects. Ad- mini<trari• e and other nol!-tech- ltical fields. LONG LINES DEPARTMENT-AMERI· CAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY -Engineering con- struction, operations, planning and maintenance of telephones and other communications fa- cilities. Long distance and over- seas services. Administrative and other 1ton-technical fields. ------------- . . While in Gennany this summer, impottant than beating the ·schJIIol Roy worked a nine-hour day, re- of the guy next door. 'This obses- ceiving periodic transfers to dif- · sion with witming ·has •be~n the ferent departments in order to basic reas()n for tile present un- familiarize him with the com- heajthy state of ~Willege athleti,cs. pany's various manufacturing pro, Winning il) important, but the cesses. He was given ample time most iinportant thlng is for the for learning and was free to leave coaclb to teacJ!, Ws bl)ys to really his own worlt at any time to ask I TRY tn win. questions about other phases of College football stands at an the company's opera:tion. important crossroads. It can Dick Ernsdorff studies a microwave site-layou:t chart atop a moun- tain near Orting, in western Washington state. On assignments like this, he often carries $25,000 worth of equi plilent with him. ........... Here, Dick checks line-of-sight with q distant repeater station by mirror-Bashing and confirms reception by pmtable radio. Using this technique, reflecti(]ns of the sun's rays can be seen as far as.SO miles. He wears two kinds of work togs For engineer Richard A. Emsdorfl, the ''uniform of the day\ changes frequently. A Monday might find him in a checkered wool shirt on a Washington or Idaho mountain top. Wednesd;;ty could be a collar-and-tie day. Dick is a transmission engineer with the Pacific Tele- phone and Telegraph Company in Seattle, Washington. He joined the company in June, 1956, after getting his B.S.E.E. degree from Washington State University. ''I wanted to work in Washington,\ he says, \with an: established, grow: ing company where I could find a variety of engineering op- portunities and could use some imagination in my work.\ . Dick spent 2% years in rotational, on-the-job training, doing power and equipment engineering and \learning the business.\ Since April, 1959, he has worked with micro· wave radio relay systems in the Wash.ington·ldaho area. When Dick breaks out his checkered shirt, he's headed for the mountains. He makes field studies involving micro· Dick stops by the East CentraJ Office building in Seattle tD look at some microwave terminating equipment. It's involved in a 4000 megacycle radio relay system between Seattle and Portland, Oregon. wave systems and SAGE radars and trouble-shoots any problem that arises. He also engineers \radar remoting\ facilities which provide a vital communications link be· tween radar sites and Air Force Operations. A current assignment is a new 1 i,OOO me radio route from central Washington into Canada, utilizing reflectors on mountains and repeaters (amplifiers) in valleys. It's a million-dollar-plus project. - \I don't know where an engineer could fin~ more inter• -esting work,\ says Dick. * * * You might also find an interesting, rewarding career with the Bell Telephone Companies. See the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES In the Engineering Lab in downtown· Seattle, Dick calibrates and aligns trl)nsmitting and receiving equipment prior to making a path· loss test of microwave circUits between Orting and Seattle. .-l; ' •'l ;_·,·, VO'L. l Fu Pa La Mid gradu cipati• appro: studm that t gradu nate d. man c he ex to be last Y.• He a fact th and ut1 wider Gross, that th ah·ead~ years t '59, 54~ of '61, ' The was e:x the 1M The ar was se man ru for ju1 seniors accepte As ( Counci pose 1): pride a dents f they g to cor additlo to mai of edu• The centag• given howth Last Y• the ;l.h to the progra; ities. ' new 1i1 ThE ties o ternit sider~ Trust Trust nounc Fin all Comn world cernil Chi, Delta a sta then Amo thougl tion i1 two bt terniti occup~ equal buildii only t way. Und neithe l:>y Col buildil Colleg paid fraterJ ai>Iy b opera1 omouf would munic Ani city a1 With alumn with campt of Ne tects, specif Tl the •Chrl tion

• 1'959 win· lead with its worth- field that widely of col· ·purpose cO<l· its trUe view NOT of fin- recruit- Ftrst of oolleg- can 5) 3:43. pros- spirit is ~n­ of a should further. seasons, een 1924- one d ,•·<::: .-<; ' •'l Scotia Review Page 2 VO'L. 89, :No. 1'1 Fund Drive· Participa· Lagging'58 -· Midway through l:lnder- graduate alumni week parti- cipation had only reached appro:x:imately 30% of the student body. Last ~year at that time 40% of the under- graduate students had do- nated. Gary Gross, Chair- .· man of the drive stated that he expects the participation to be aJbout 10% less than last year's 75%. He attributes this decline to the fact that \last year it was a new and unique id·ea and gilven much wider publicity.\ According to Gross, one promising factor is that the freshman class of '63 was· already over the 50% mark. Last years total figures were: Class of '59, 54%, Class of '60, 74%, Class of '61, 71%, Class of '62, 93%.~ 'Bi:g Surge Expected The big surge of cOntributions was expected to come in during the l!!JSt two days of tlre drive. The amount of the r.o•nt.r·ib1~ti<om~·f was set at fifty cents for fresh- man and sophomore, seventy-five for juniors and on~ dollar for seniors, but any donation will .be accepted. - As organized by the Student Council last year, the main pur- pose of the drive is to stimulate pride arid responsibility in the stu- dents for their school. Thus, when they graduate they will continue to contrLbute to the necessary additional funds which are needed to maintain our high standards of educational programming. The class with the highest per- centage of participation will be given the privilege of deciding how the money will be distributed. Last year the ~oney Was into the alumni fund and to the support of the athletic program and other student activ- ities. '!'his year support of the new librarY will be considered. This wtil be the last issue of the Concotdiensls before the Christmas vacation. Pllblicar tion Will resume January 8, Fourukd .at Union CoQeg~ in 1877 SC'HENf!CT.A:DY', N. Y.~ 1 FR'IDAY, D:ECEMB'ER 11, 1959· Student Mob D,emands .SC To Plan Doyle's :Reinstatement '1960 ~ar~f lnvest1g·atton -Gazette Ph<ito Shown al)ove is a ·dramatic scene fMm the student de:mo.n- stration of last Wednesday night, December 9. The affair was staged in protest against the removal of Keith Doyle as head football coaclt, B;y Robert Galvin Student reaction to the Keith Doyle controversy ex- plod-ed violently on Wednesday night as a large crowd of disgruntled · academians staged a three phase l\iot ·On campus. Gathering <m I,.ibra.ry Field C d C !!hortly after 11:00 P.M., the OUCOn Y . i teS crowd's· enthusiastic ferver in- creaSed as its leadeni donned D-.. t • ,;1 · White hoods and ignited a large r t\Omo lOns r or cross. \We want Doyle back\ screamed the crazed mo.b, \Down 3 New Editors with Ketz.\ They refe.ITed to the recent action of the College Ad- ministration in trans fer ring Doyle's responsibilities away from the post of Head Football CQach. The fire spread to the clothing of a student who had approached close to the blaze to add fuel and only the quick action of other stu- dents saved him from more seri- ous inj:ury. Fi-.al Exams Page 4 PRICE TEN CENTS D·oyle Removed From Varsity Coaching Post Removal Comes as Surprise News of the projected replace- ment of Keith Do:yle appeared Tuesday in the moMling newspa- pers in this area. The story was a surprise to the college commun- ity and to all those Who know Keith Doyle. The Knickerboclter News, an Albany afternoon paper, -received . the story from some \undisclosed news source,\ and contacted the Schenectady Gazette who released the story in their me>rning edition. The story was released prema- turely; the college llad hoped to keep the information under wraps for about another month and a half. · Coach 001 Hoi; Seat \Father's Dilemma\ Is Shown Tonight

2 ... I ,.,· ... >·: ! .. : PulJiishetl l\'IIliays tlUI nag tht· Hl hool \'l'ar lJV tht.• ~t.udt•nt H11d\' of t!nt'on Cu.llege, ~kht>llt'(·tatlY, ~. Y. ~a.tiiJUal .Atl\'t'lti~illh l~t·JI· reseutativc: ·~ationnl Allvt•rtt~· ing Her\'it'l', hu'., CoHege l'uh- llHhen; J~epre:;entative, 120 ~!ad­ l.!::iOll Ave., ~. Y C. •, I·:.: it<> I ial office, \Ya~hhurn Hall, t·n1n11 l ~Dll~ge. Puhhl'ation l )f- Iwt!, ThL\ l·iazette l'tc~s. ;;:H ~tate St Entt'rt·d in the ~che­ tll'dady }lost Uffil'e as Se1·uuLl l'la:;:; :\!ail ~'latter, subs<·ription lUl' a L'UPY; $~ a year dl·lh t'n:t.i all) whete in tilL' rn1ted ~tH.tt>S SE:'ilOU 110.\RD l'El'Elt J. ::;Tr:I:o;liL.\~:-; \til!. ...•• !•! t; :IE• .. Editot·-in-Chlef 1 ... \~CE ~~ H.\r!A:-irl, 'till .II] li-\~~~~~~~ ....... Hu::Hilt•s:1 llauag~r I'.\ 1 'I, I. \\'Ill ,L\IA :s '60 ........ J·:X 3-U~~~ ......... ~lanagiHg E<.htui JU}-:1., EUPEHS~JlTH 'tiU........ LX 3-1;,..;:..: ...• \.->t-vt·tatt.' I:ditol ltUtH·:ltT J. Ui\'l .. \'1:--.; ·~1...... . tJI G ::11!\1 .•• :'\ews Editor LESLIE 11. :\L\l:l~L-~ 'f.:: ltl ,; ~~~1;,~1 ~pot·ts Editol' JL\Hllt ll\1.\UIJ .Marlt Krugman ·,;o ............................ , .... !'holography ~di<or John \Vahl!g \60 .............................................. Art Edrtur Harry ltubm '61 ......... , , , . , ......... , . . . J,ueal Advertlsmg :\lanager Stuart Cohen '61 , ...•.. , ... , ........... :'\atwnal Advertisiug Manager l~e1·ald Hnd<: 'ti:! ...................................... Aeti\'1ties l~Uttur H.onald E. Druem 'G~ ......................... , , Assistant :o-;ews Editor Arthur 11. J:o'ttcdman ·c: ........................ l'u-l•:eatures l~tlitor La\\'reru·~ H. Lt'lltdtttL•r ·1;:! ......................... t•o-1• eatures h.dttor Louis A belove '6::. ••...•••.. , . , •.•• , ••.••. , . , •••. , •• Circulatrun :\Janage1 ltEl'ORTElt Sl'A}'F lluuglass Allen, Juhu l~a·~·l, :\lu·hd.el Hor~otelli. Bru<'e Berwaltl. Thomas l>andre\v Steve-n Ei~~~~ Paul l~a:Iant. l~ulJert liuhleniJerg, Chailt.:>H- llnld.- stein .M1~·hael Gonion, 'Thomas Grange, ;\larlt Hamlelman, :\:oah Hetsh- kowt'tz Paul JuL\olo~. HatTY I<at,lan. ='eil E.ltdnrnan, Keuneth Kessler, Peter Left·ourt, ,:\'lattlH..>\\ I .. ut.>\\em:Ht:lll, John Lubt.·tkin, Lloyd ~ut·iel< .. Joe IlulumlJt, H.alph l'alasel<, L'harlt•H 1)111e, :-;teven l'uln1ar, l:Ienn PnUus, Theodore HothHtellJ, I l;;Ulit'l ~dn\ ar-z, Alfn:~d Sotnn1er, i>aYid Thurston, Carl Val•mtille, Steven Zeehe. Hl'SI:SESS :STAFI•' Peter Ambrose, Steven Fa•·tor, AI Gallau<l, Arthur Gellert, Thomas Hall, Victor ~lutnik, l'eter ::khwartz, !Javill ::lhaw, I·:dwanl ::lkloot. BUILT IN 1960; BURNED IN 1959 NSA: On Politics By Kenneth Hoyt l=riday, Dec:e\\ber n I 1959 A Cinema Review . \The Magnificent Seven\ By Joe Palombi This revie'w is thll serond of a regular series, made in co-opera.- tion with The Scotia Art Theatre, wlhere this production will run through next Wednesday. for .all rid the poverty-stricken farmers from the fear they con· tinually live in. The development of. the picture in:volves. itself with the mental gro.wth and realization.s of these The ~gniflcent Seven, now men and the: final fate to which being presented at the Scotia Art each one of them fina!ly ~ames. Theatre, ts in all respects one of They all realize th,e conditions un- the most dramatic and excitingly dcr which· they will be obj.jged to l:tnique pictures to be released in live, fight, and possibly die. Yet. this country. Directed ·by one of for reasons varying fr.O!ll self- the great figures in the Japanese reaiization to revenge they all film industry, Akira Kurosawa, agree to leave the honored .clty this movie reveals all the mani- life of a \sa!lluti\ and enter the fest skill and intelligence with poverty-stricken life of the farm- which he has always been assoc- er. iated. Winner of the Lion of St. Mark Venice Festival and ac- claimed throughout the wol'ld as one of the most significant and perfect contributiOns to the cin- ema. by the Japanese, '.11he Mag· nifiCent Seven lives up to its praise in every respect of film technique. Collab'&rated With Logan A Misguided Spirit The demonstration held last Wednesday night, Decem- ber 9, in protest against the removal of Keith Doyle as Head Football Coach, was the most disgusting display of student activity seen on campus this year. The sight of a burning cross adorning the campus flag pole and of stu- dents bearing the cross in a march culminating before the Ketz and Davidson homes could easily have called to mind images one associates with such upstanding Ameri- can displays as the desegreg-ation riots. If a call for increased school \spirit\ means further displays of this type, then we would prefer the status quo. The Dovle demonstration can only be called a highly warped ·outlet for expressing one's affection for one's college. - There is nothing intrinsically wonderful in plain raw spirit. If this were the case, then a lynch mob would be a hio-hlv admirable organization. The worth of \spirit\ is to\'be.found only in what the \sprit\ is being used for and the manner in which it is being used. The phenomenon of student demonstrations can be a highly beneficial and honomble tradition if, and only if, the cause is wisely chosen and the display intelligently executed. As suggested last week, o-ne of the perennial problems of NSA is the interpretation of what constitutes the role of a student as a student. This is no small matter of semantics; rather, it is the key to the part the Associ- ation is able to play as a repre- sentative organization of informed American student opinion and belief. The interpretations are made in the context of Article X of the Constitution of USNSA which states in part: \No body acting on behalf of USNSA shall participate in sectarian religious or partisan political activities; they shall not take part in ac- tivity which does not affect stu- dents in their role as students.\ . . . scienc:e and technology be devoted to the progress of hu- manity and not to its destruction, and expresses its profound desire in the realization of an effective and definite agreement concern- ing suspension of nuclear (weapons-) experiments, and gen- eral disarmament.\ P,ositive Case Presented The affirmative side based their case on the contention that students desire and are able to speak out on the evils of nuclear testing. First, they would point to what they claim is a general scientific agreement on the defin- ite biological and genetic harms to human beings that result from testing. Secondly they would deny any possibility of damage to the security position of the United States on the grounds that the resolution advocates not uni- lateral cessation of tests by the United States, but rather an in- ternational agreement to do so in response to the appeals of sci- entists, politicians, students. and peoples of the world. It is said that no deviation from the stu- dents as students clause is pres- ent ·because the resolution calls only for study and concern and does not promote a particular so- lution. A black and white film of un- usual lepgth, The Scotia presenta- tion was one year in the making aad was cast by Kurosawa him- self after personal interviews with vii·tually every actor in Japanese motion picture and theatrical cir- cles. Shinol>U Hashimoto, author of the screenplay of Rasho-Mon with Kurosawa, co!Iaborated with him again on this latest addition to Kurosawa's long list of cinema greats. The presentation of the film had its origin in the meet· ing of two distinguished artists, Kurosawa and the noted d-irector· producer, JllShua Logan, who was vacationing in Japan. Logan saw a stage presentation of '11he Mag- nificent Seven in Tokyo and brought it to the attention of American film men who acquired the rights for its exhibition in this country. Revolving around the tale of the fight of a small Japanese vil- lage against the menace of local bandits, the underlying theme and controlling influence is the story of seven \samuri or professional warriors, who aid the village in its fight. All of differing .~har­ acter, disposition, and goals, these seven men agree to form the core of a defense which will once and Producing an action picture without the loss of human values is a task which director Kuro- sawa has taken upon himself and has skillfully resolved in this film. A steadily building power culminating in climatic tension ·is never broken by the spectacular and ferocious battle. s~;enes which are the highlight of the physical action. Although coming from an age five centuries, r:emoyed from the .present, and containing many strange and mysterious cus- toms and practices, the plot and character development compli- ment well with the physical ac- tion. Young Lo'Ve Shines One or the most touching and moving sub-plots in the picture portrays the bold and frank yet )Xlotivating love affair between the youngest and still childish sarnuri and a young peasant girl. Played by !sao Kimura a;nd Kieko Tsushima, the two young lovers meet freakishly one day i:p the. woods, and with the development of danger t<! the village a;nd sub- sequent battles, an a:imost for- bidden romance flowers. The starring role, that of the seventh of the would-be-samuri, is played by Tashiro Mifune, the ex- traordinary star of Rasho-Mon. .of the motion picture art. Com- bining truly spectacular and b\'\' lievable action with the essence of human credit, it results in com- pelling drama which will not be forgotten in the history of the Japanese industry nor on the American scene. We sincerely hope we have seen the last of the \cross- burnings\ lighting· up the Union campus. Letters To The Editor To the Editor of Concurdiensis: A footbaJl coach has been re- mQ/Ved from his position as head coach. After two winless seasons, Keith Doyle has lost his jo·b. One of the hai\d facts to accept is that one must pi\oduce or be gone. Stu- dent opinion, what little there is of it, vai\ies from the few who are sorry to see Keith go, to the faction who now look forward to seeing a Winning football team, but in the celebrations, a few facts may be obscured or forgot- ten. I would like those who think of Doyle as an unsuccessful coach to -took at him as a man. Keith Doyle took a job that few men would want to undertake. None of us who play football at Union are really football players. For two years, Doyle has worked with a group Gf men who are fir~t of all ·students, who simply had the desire to play football. No one can deny that the team has made definite progress. The develop- ment has been slow, agonizing work, perhaps t(){) slow. Perhaps some<me else could have done bet- ter. My point is: Who is to pay? How can anyone judge a man's accomplishments in so short a period of time? Two years ago, there weren't any active footbaJl players at Union like the ones in the present Freshma.n class. Keith. Doyle is primarily responsible for them ·be- ing here now. The players of the Class of '63 along with the present experienced varsity are the prod- ucts of Doyle's labor. How good are they? Does anyone really !mow yet? I do not understand how anyone can possibly judge now. Next year was to be Doyle's year. Everything was building to- wards this goal. Next year the results of Doyle's work would have been known. Once people had seen these results, then they could judge Whether or not he was a good coach. I do not know how a man can be cut off only part way to his ·goaL Is there any jll.'ltlce in that? During Sam Hammerstrom's last three years at Union, he bu:ilf a team of green sophomores into a formidable unit. Sam's last year was ·really a gift. He could not sta-y the whole year, but w.as allowed to stay for. the fall sea- son to finish the job he had started. He was going to see his team \through its last season.\ Doyle has also built a team of green sophomores into a unit. Now he will not have a chance to complete his task for the team's last season. Is this justice? Any sentiments cast in Keith Doyle's direction are worthless. From a practicaJ viewpoint; it is the record that counts. As the record stands, Doyle has scored a failure. w:herever he goes from now on, there is a mar on his rec- ord. I say \injustice\ ·because I maintain that he has not failed. Can a student be said to have failed if his pa·per is taken away from him after only forty min- utes of a full hour eXam? No, but if the mark is in the book, no amount of sentiment will help. '!'he purpose of this letter is not to start a \Sawe Doyle\ campaign. There are too many \forces that be\ for students to attempt to in- tervene. The student body is mucll too indifferent to respond to much else than a prom weekend. The only purpose I have in writing this letter is to. make the indiffer- cnts of the student body think about this situation rather than glibly dismiss it with a wave of the hand and a flippant remark about the quality of Doyie's coach- ing. Xhis man Who paced the sidelines every Saturday afternoon is not simply a silhouette labeled \Coach\. George Thompson \* -)(- -t< To the Editor of Concordiensis: This past Wednesday evening a few hundred Union students staged a mass rally, suppoSedly in favor of retaining Keith Doyle as head football coach. Several ques- tions must be raised in the mind of the student concerning this in- cident. Do the students actually want Doyle as football coach? No! But many people will be ready to rise to his defense as an individual if not as a coach. Although a three year coaching tenure w.as not specified in his contract, the col- lege does owe him support and his position until his rebui.lding program has an opportunity to (Continued on Page 6) In practice, virtually all of the disagreement on the real mean- ing of the above provision arises on international problems even though it .is quite possible that at some time a national or re- gional issue might be involved. The reason for this state of af- fairs is that the relations of NSA with foreign national unions of students demand that the Assoc- iation take art interest in their problems, which are often of a political nature. Standards Stated A criterion of ascertaining .the validity of NSA consideration of Jnternational political issues-a consideration undertaken in the belief that it is indeed within the role of a student as a student that he seek to promote inter- national understanding and co- operation among students of dif- ferent nations-might be as fol- lows: 1) The issue must be re- lated to the role of students as students as interpreted by Ameri- can students, not by those of the nations concerned. A possible negative example of this would be the one of supporting students seeking a national health plan on the grounds that poor health of the students' families makes it difficult for them to concen- trate on their academic efforts. 2) The issue must be important enough. An unsupportable issue here would be the question of in- creased student bus fares in Mex- ico City. 3) The solution for which support is sought must be substantiated or verified by rea- soning from the student problem alone and must not have im- portant direct implications ·aut- side the student community. If either one of these last ·criteria are not fulfilled,. NSA may only protest the student problem and condemn only those authorities and/or conditions that are respon• sible for it. Atom Testing is Issne At the 12th National Student Congress there appeared ex- tremely controversial resolutions -one concerning Algeria, the other on nuclear testing-which evoked extensive debate centered around their adherence to the principles outlined above. The re- maind.er of this article will dis- cuss the question of nuclear test- ing while a later article will treat the Algerian issue in some de- tail. Quite simply, the nuclear test- ing resolution passed at the 12th Congress asked American stu- dents to study the problem in the light of an 8th International Stu- dent Conference resolution, which states: \The 8th ISC observes that international tensions create a climate which is adverse to· that necessary for greater student co- operation. This climate does not guarantee conditions which the student body needs for its bet- ter development. The 8th ISO therefore expresses Its hope that SCOTIA ART THEATRE \STIRRING-SENSUOUS!\ -Time Magazine \EXTRAIJRDINARY AND FASCINATING!\ --~-N.Y. Times NOW THRU DEC. 20 NIGHTLY at 7 and 9:10 \WARM FURIOUSLY EXCITINGr' Llf-E Mag **** FOUR STARS \TERRIFICALL'i EXCITING!\ N.Y. Daily N9w1 The opposition to the resolution stemmed from a fear that this problem of nuclear testing is not \peculiar\ to students in that the issue involves no direct educa- tional connection as is the case with academic freedom or fed- eral assistance. If, as is con- tended, the advocation of a ban on testing of nuclear we·apons is clearly envolvment in the politi- cal realm, then NSA is seriously ~~~~;;~~~~;;;;;~~~;--::-:::;:;:;;:7,;::::;::::-;::;::;:;:-;:;::::;:-;:;=: ~:~r~~fl~i~at~~::~~· :t~\: ~ ..... TY ...... D .. H.O .. ····t .... N.S ... T.K.A .. :·~··~~· .. O ... N ...... =~=::=:;: cedent which allows the political- ROTH'S minded of other national unions of students to assume dominance Restaurant over the policy of USNSA. Par- ticularly it gives license to NSA and AUTO 'R'EPAJR·S •• officers to compromise establish- Del\•c:atessen ed policy of the Association when- ever international politics seem • All Union Men Welcome .~=. to so dictate. The possibility of I Oi'o Discount setting an undesirable precedent demands that sight not be lost for Union Students • 135 NOTT TERRACE 5 of the basic pw·pose of NSA which affect students in their 504 State St. FR 7-2J 10 FR 7-6776 • \Peculir. role as students. : • . . . . ................................................ ~ Compromise is Result Because of the extreme doubt •••- • • -- •-• •-------------- •· of the constitutionality of the nu- 1 1 SYLVANIA .sT. EREO and. HI-FI PORTABLES . 1 1 clear testing ban resolution, the slim majority in favor of the orig- I unzon College Student Special I ina! draft was forced, after seven 1 Reg. $99.95 - Our Price $64.50 1 hours of debate, to tone down 1 * I considerably the .series of facts used to support the case. The I 6 Transistor Radios -Reg. $50- Our Price $33 1 result was the rather weak basic I 4 Transistor Radios- Reg. $39.95- Our Price $24.95 1 policy declaration exhorting study 1 * • * · and comment on the part of in- TV RADIO HI Fl d STEREO I dividual student bodies. In the I ' '' * ' ; • an* . . . 1 main though, it seems safe to I Extra Specl d I t · Ill C[)r s and Decora.tions sta e it is quite legitimate to pass I 25% off on records to all Union Oollege Students 1 a resolution &pressing a desire 1 for effective and definite disarm- 1 The Studio Shop. 513 State c:or. Barrett 1 1 ament which does not caU for any specific way of achieving this dis- \' - 11!11 - • - • - • • - • - • - • - - •·- - - - - - • ...;, armament, and thUS, dOeS llOt -in- :.tllllllliiiii .. IIUIIi•tUrlllllllliiiiJIIIIIUJIUIIIIIIJIIIiiiiiiiSIIIIIIIIIII;IIIillltlllllilll~:::==:==< valve military and strategic con- siderations outside the role of Down to Louis', let us go, a student as a student. But, there L h z Is always the imminent danger et t e ager freely flow. that one small departure from the A · 1 basic purpose of NS'A may lead umque P ace to dine with old European Atmosphere to more frequent and serious NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT forays into areas of seemingly ~ . · · · • · partisan politics. Hel).ce, it is the Since 1895 - Co~ner 266 State and Erie Blvd. 5 right and duty of all member stu- : dent bodies to maintain a conun- Larne part•\es a~ com· ·m· oda· te· d • : uous vigilance so that the aims :. \ In 0 U r • of a representative national un- R A·THS'.KE·LLE·R· : ion of students in the United -\\ : States do not 'become subverted : by the aims .of . .the more .politically For reservaiiorlS phone· FR 4-8-917 • oriented foreign unioh.s, • _,, 111111 iiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIII~ 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II Ill 111111111111.1111111.11115 I ,. l ; '. ·1. Friday - - - Dl'.B Biol!ogy spendi.Il ing res• ine Sta fornia. padf pcratul' ing Da tions f palms were b other t Fa:ll. ' accusto grapes, and sq· and ar ways 1' one m~ to fin, bushes: and a;ll we are Winter it, wHI Family is mix1 the sti winds others see an1 they li crisis, Christr of gift race a nasturl 1 Whe: region Penlns unawa. bet wee of the The d' areas i. Geogra trary, much which picture run fr Missou total ' only n : 1 the th the stc nearby so uri, than n fore a: them .· ~ Our ever, ' cilities Statio! along countr study area. usuan, ate aJ sheer initial! the fi son of strong called: ., Stanfc indire• The s • As 1 Da~ • And cien gon' ANU • IN' SE~ twe1 call< • co: am~ dire • Bar AftE • I:Jpe• Go!J The Tr 62( L. BAl STA 171

1959 con- e picture mental of these to which 'y <James. un- to Yet. self- they all clty the farm- picture values Kuro- and in this power tension ·is which physical ing froin removed cus- plot and compll- ysical ac- and picture franlt yet between I childish girl. Kieko lovers in the_ velopment and sub- for- of the is the ex- Com- and b~ .essence Its in com- not be of the on the 20 9:10 ITING!\ Mag R·s ~ 5 . . . \' ____ ,. : I I I I I I I I I 1 I ____ , lliiiiUISIIill' our ............... \ \. ) I• I\ l , .. ; '' i '1. i ' ·I ~ .! Friday, 'December '11 s 1'959 A. Sabbatical Report The Faculty Outlook By Raymond Rappaport Station's endowment allows it an agreeable autonomy although it is a part of Stanford's division of biological sciences. Teaching is done here in the summer when · The Christmas Music Festival 3 \The Unsilent Generation\ Literary Escapades By Peter Lefcourt ];his book review is ano1lh.er future? These queries, as with which the CONCORDIENSJS most questions dealing with value- feels will be valuable tQ the stu- judgments, do not lend t:hemselves ·dent body. to :ohort and well defined answers; Dr. Rappaport, a mem'her o.f the Biofogy Department, is cuiTentiy spending his sabbatical leave do- ing reseat•ch at .the Hopkins Mar- ine Station in Pacific G1•ove, {,'aJi- fornia. Pacific Gn()ve-When the tem- perature reached 82 on Thanksgiv- ing Day and Christmas decora- tions sprouted among the date palms it became clear that we' were being treated to something other than an exceptionally mild' Fall. We have long since become accustomed to truckloads of grapes, trainloads of sugar beets and square miles of strawberries and artichokes, ·but there has al- ways lingered the suspicion that one morning w·e would awaken to find the grass <or fushia bushes) covered with frosty rime and all things black and sear. Now we are resigned to the fact that Winter, as we have come to know it, wiU not descend in these parts. Family re.ception of this situation is mixed. Some profess to miss the stimulating effect of biting winds and slippery roads while. others don't care if they never see another snowflake as long as they live. We are told that the crisis, for Easterners, occurs on Christmas J)ay when distribution of gifts takes place on the ter- race amid blooming geraniums, nasturtiums and sweetpeas. large numbers of undergraduates· take intensive courses iu various areas of marine biology. During the remainder of the year the . place is devoted· to research ·by · .staff, graduate student:; and:. Our present generation of col- lege students has suffered many appelations-irresponsible, grop- ing, cynical, beat, etc.-but the ti- tle of this book, The Unsilent Gen- eration, I think, represents the most positive, and the only en- tirely valid description of young, collegiate .America. The fact that we are unsilent, that we are aware and quick to criticize, has engen- dered an \undeclared war\ be- tween our genera:tion and that of our parents. They tend to feel that we are valueless, selfish and hypercrH.ic:a:l-that we \don't real- ly know what life is,\ (i.e., living during the depression?). We in turn indict them with b&ing nar- row-minded, materialistic and gen- erally unsympathetic to our pt·ob- lems. The existence of this \af- fectionate animosity\-for it is far from being an open struggle- is brought to light by this book. and the essays tended to be rath- er general discussions of life. Psychologists tell us that the independent atmosphere at col- lege tends to encourage the break- ing of all ties with home-a con- scious overeomprn.satlon for our yPars of sheltere>d security. But the quPstion presents itself: is this unique to O•Ur generation- is \cutting the umbilical cord for good\ a natural trait of post- adolescence or is this especially characteristic of our times? The \ Journey When we left the Mt. Desert region of Maine for the Monterely Peninsula of ~California we were unaware that we were shuttling between the two most scenic parts of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts . The distance between these two areas is considerable and, National Geographic Magazine to the con- trary, there are stretches of as much as a thousand miles for which we can evoke no specific picture of scenic grandeur. The run from western Quebec to the Missouri River could be made in total darkness and one would only miss the appalling sight of the thousands of units built for. the storage of surplus grain from nearby fields. Beyond the Mis- souri, however, the scenery more than makes up for what went be- fore and we arrived glutted with the memory of natural wonders. Our purpose in coming, how- ever, was to make use of the fa- cilities of the Hopkins Marine Station. Marine stations exist along the coasts of most civilized countries and enable biologists to study marine organisms of the area. The fact that they are usually located in a pleasant clim- ate amid lovely surroundings is sheer coincidence. This one was initially set up and endowed with the financial aid of the adopted son of Mark Hopkins who was a strong supporter (as they are called) of the parent institution, Stanford University. I am thus, indirectly, a guest of Stanford. The semi-detached nature of the BERMUDA 1 College Week 1960 will be the GRE~JEST! • As always, the \Mixer\ - College Day at the Beach . g ucsts. 'The establi::;hment i;:; pr:ac- · tically ideal and the flora and · fauna lush. The Sordid His'Vory Sho\vn above is the college clioir performing in Memorial Chapel. The ·choh> will be one of the several musical groups to perform this Sunday, Dect\mber 13, in the a,nnual Uniom CollegP Christma.s Music Festival. The Ff.'stival, which will be high- lighted l>y a community carol sing, will include selections rend- ·erl'd hy .the Glee Club, Brass Choir andJ Ancient Instruments Group, in adllition to the Cb.oh•. The town of Pacific Grove where: all thrs is located was founded .by a Methodist minister so that it is surrounded but not occupied by liquor stores. Contrguqus and, to the east is Monterey with its \old California\ area and the fa- bled ·cannery roW. The latter is within several hundred yards ot the station but is enfeebled by lack of fish. Former canneries · and supporting recreational areas. Ph: 'os c· ommence Debat;ng are now occupied by Lea-rooms 111t II and other genteel establishment~>. c H ld 0 R d• rhe herring fishing neet is still . ontest.· ·e ·ver . a · .., 0 active, drmmished in numbers if II not in odor. It is cheerfully ad- By Lawrence Lentclmer mitted t):lat locally canned her\ ring and mackerel taste miser- The Union. College Debating Society, The Philoma- able but apparently people in oth- thians, are now· engrosseq in the height of the oratorical er parts of the world don't care. season, which traditionally lasts from the late fall to early South of us, across the base of ,spring. Included in the • the peninsula lies Carmel and heavy s c he d. U 1 e was a south of it, the Big Sur country. Both of these areas are militantly \first a debate over short devoted to the aesthetie and, as. wave 1·adio, made possible a friend remarked,. \Everybody through co-operation of the paints a little or writes a little.\ college \ham\ radio station, Carmel is, however, a very charm- ing town and its citizens are put- W2GSB. ting up an inspiring battle against On Monday, December 7, the a super highway-minded state Philos experimented with this highway commission with powers new media by conducting a novice that seem to derive from diving debate with RPI <Jn the national sources. topic. The Uniollcites, who took The local residents are proud the affirmative side of the topic of their part of the country and -which reads, \Resolved: That anxious to preserve its ·beauty. Congress should be given power to Postwar population growth of reverse decisions of the Su,preme California has been phenomenal Court\-al\gued fl•om the W2GSB (reputedly 1000 per day> and much station, located behind North Col- farm land bas :been transformed lege, while their negative counter- to housing develQJJments. There . parts from Troy were recei!Ved is, hoWever, a concerted effort to over a speaker. 'The e:Kperiment preserve the coastline and land was a success, and future radio is being purchased by county and debates, with colleges from state as fast as money is avail- greater distances, are planned. able. Long years of private own- The varsity clebaters, whose ership and depredation have, un- contingent includes, Joel D. Tick- fortunately, put the Atlantic nor; President, Arnold Clappas, coast beyond such measures. Br-owne Littel, Paul Balaty, and The, days go by; the sun shines; Lawrence Lentcll.ner, have also sea lions bark and cavort; re- been extremely active. Under the search proceeds apace. We wish leadership of F'aculty Advisor all a Merry Christmas. James Riedel, they have travelled ---10•--- Mr. Ketz requests that all men interested in comling o11t for tllre indoor track team report to the Field House any weekcla,y, at a quarter of four. to the University nf Vermont and Tufts for huge to-urnament&. 'I'he Vermo-nt Tournament is one of the largest of l ts kind in the United States. Over 80 teams of four members apiece .partici- pated in the debate. This barrage of students upo!L the New Eng- There will be a meeting- of all · land town of Burlington literally men interested in playing varsity I take over- the to.wn and college. football for the 1960-61 season on While the Philos did not take top Tuesday, Decelmber 15. in C. E.. honors at either clebate, they have 106 at 7:001 tP. M. I won the majority of their con- --------------~------------ ANGELO'S RESTAURANT $.20 on the Dollar for Anything You Have for Stuelents Also Dates or Family 1135 BARRETT ST. Dl 6-9261 WEEK DAYS Ope11 II A.M. to I A.M. FRI. & SAT. tests, With the seasnri just start- ing, there is a strong possibility tha.t a few cups may be brought back tp the campus. On Tuesday, December 8, the Philomathians traveled to Am- sterdam, N. Y., where traditionally they present the topic ·before the 2nd Presbyterian Church Men's Club. Presentations such as these are extremely helpful to the Philos as they offer a chance to spealt before a larger and less academic audience. In an effort to bring about in- terest in debating at Niskayuna High School, the school auth<Jr- ities asked the Philos to debate before the school assembly. This again was an interesting experi- ence for the debaters, as another, entirely different audience pro b- lem was present. At the moment, the society is aiming at the Regional District Elimination Tournament which W'ill take :place at Providence Col- lege in Rh<Jde Island. This tour- nament is the \world series\ of collegiate debating and will also. be on the national topic. If the Phllos make it through the elim- inations, they will travel to West Point f<Jr the nationals, ;Other de- bates now on the schedule include, McGill Uni-Jersity, Harvard Col- lege, MIT, West Point, University of Pittsburg and NYU downtown. The Unsilent Generati'<m is the> work of eleven seniors at Prince- ton University, instigated and edited by Dr. Dtto Butz, Pro- fessor of Politics at Princeton. Be- cause of the limited number of .contributors, all from the same university, Dr. Butz claims that the ideas and attitudes expressed in the book are not at all repre- sentative. He feels that the book is merely interesting and enlight- ening reading. That it is, but one cannot help being struck by some unifyi,ng overtones, and the temp- tation to draw conclusions is al- most irresistible. Students Write Candidly The contributors .. who remained anonymous to encourage candor. were asked to write about ·their lives, directing their attention to these questions: what do you waut to contribute to life? what do you want to get out of life? how bas your background affected you in your above conclusions? how do you relate yourself to America's Parental Rejection Cited This rejection of our parents- their ideas and counsel-pervades several of the essays. Witness the following statements: \My constant dependence on my par- ents is sapping my strength. Yet I can't break away\; \I am torn between duty to them and duty to my parents\; \! disagree with my parents' main values\. I be- lieve these are indicative of a pre- occupation with this very pro- found problem. What are the aims and ambi- tions of these young men? Again one is tempted to generalize and say that, as a group, they seem to be relatively unambitious- treating success as the inevitable denoument of a college (especi- ally a Princeton) education. This is not to say that because they are not the barefoot boy in the log cabin, dreaming of being Pres- ident, they are excessively smug and overconfident. However, I think we can understand our par- ents' feeling that we are over- sophisticated and divorced from the \cold facts of life.\ Another source of friction be- tween our parents and us, brought forth by these essays, is religion. The fact that orthodoxy in relig- ion is declining may be attributed to the growing secularization of society. Therefore, do our par- ents have a right to expect of us, <Continued on Page 6) ~-------------------------~ 24 Hour Emergency Service T. J. MALONEY PLUMBING - HEATING CONTRACTOR Electric Sewer Cleaning 81roken Water Pipes Repaired I I I I I I I I I I 1564 Becker St. Phone FR 7-15571 I --------------------------~ FR_EE PARKING Open I I A.M. to 3 A.M . • And the All-Day Cruise to an an- · cient fort with calypso, luncheon, I gombey dancers and native bands. L · I Did you know that Joseph-Ptiestley's the- ories on oxygen, life-essential of air, were formed while observing bubbles rising to the surface of a vat of beer in an English brewery? Did you know that John Alden was asked to join the Mayflower company because he was a cooper by trade and could take care of the barrels in which the ves- sel's beer was carried? AND FOR THE FIRST TIME --------------------------- • INTERCOLI,.EGIATE JAZZ SESSIONS, with competition be- tweenjazz combos ofleading men's colleges. • COLLEGE WEEK REVUE- amateur college talent (YOU?), directed by a· professional. • Barbecue Luncheon and Games Afternoon. • I:Jpecial TROPHillS for Fishing Golf, Tennis. ' The ALL WITHOUT CHARGE. BERMUDA Trade Development Board 620 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N.Y. L. G. BALFOUR 00~ CA'R·L SO'REN'SEN BADGES- RINGS. FAVORS JEWELRY. LEATlJER, GIFI'S STATIONERY - PRQGRAMS CLUB PINS • :KEYS MEDAIS - TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Je.wefers 171 M'.arsbaU St., SyracUSe, N.Y. Phone Gr~te 5-7837 SYRACUSE SEMESTER In A unique foreign study program sponsored by Syracuse U·niversity American college stlldents are-o-ffered lUI. op- portunity t() enrich their educa.tion with a for- eign experience and, at the same thnc, com- plete th1}ir <lOll~ge course iii. four years. No language prerequisite. \Home stay\ arrltng~d with Italian family in Florence. Write For Booklet SS-1 UNIVERSITY COLLEGE ()F SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 611J E. F~yette St., Syracuse 3, New Yorlc Did you know that Knickerbocker's the frostiest, smoothest-tastin' beer in town 'l If you haven't tried it lately, try it now! It's brewed to satisfy your beer thirst better! NEW YORK'S FAMOUS BEER JA.co• RUPP~RT • N. Y • ~~

I • i i i .l ., ., ::· .. ' •I '' l. ' . ·. ... l=rielay~ December 11, 1959 Abandon All Hope Ye Who EnterAneurn.gProfe••or. . .. :J M Biology 14a (Invertebrate Zoo- Chemistry la (General) (Sees. Ed ward Sml th: A Profile I. F . I E • tio n 11 :30 A. M.-1 :30 P.. • & p r itology) 3, 6, 10 to c. L. 201) Ina XOmlftG German. 25 (German for P~~~s 3 : ~Advanced Me- Chemistry lla (Quantitative By ~ar!lt HandelmiMl Schedule Che!lll~ts) · Fi- chanics) Analysis) 1n keeping with tile situatiCJn All professors ;have their own Econom)lcs 45a (Public C.E. 42 (Soil Mechanics & . Saturday, January 23 which will see tihree of Union's theory of teaching, and the Geol- First ·Semester-1959·60 nance ) Foundations) M , finest professo1·s, Drs, Coffin, ogy PJ;ofessor from Bidd_ifor~, Examinations will be held Psychology la (General 8:00·10:00 A. ' Smitih and Larrabee, retire a;t tfhe. Maine is no exception. Sm1th Is l ·n the Gymnasium unless Psychology lla (Psychology Qf 3:00-5:00 'P.M. English 50a {Arilerican Civlli-. end of the academic year, CON- of th~ opinion that the .student Personality) O>mparative Literature 25a zat 1 ·on) '\ORDT\\\'\'\SIS· p-res~~'-- a sert'es of b d f d h · d\ cted c v ~· ~·\\ should be given a · roa un a- ot erw1se ll'e • 3 00 5·0·0 p ·M Untrod. to Study of omp. Histor\ 19a (Introduction to · d ib' these b Due to the brief two hour : Fr;n~h 20~ (introduction to Lit.) · Engllsh History) . !!:::. .f~fl!:ondes:; th~g articles mJ·e~f.t~o b:!~ia~fzeh~~o ~~~~ f~ ~ examination period, Proc- French Literature) French 30a (.French Civiliza- . History 24a ·(History of Latin deals with Professor Edward S. C. mistake. The many geology grad- tors have been instructed German lOa (Second Year) tion of the l!}th & ZOth Cen- America) Smith. .uates who have been successful n \'t to allow smokin~r and German 20a (Contemporary turies) Economics .Wa (Accounting) owe it to the knowledge of diver- v - German) Government 12a (Introduction Cheml=try 21a (Physica.l') -5, 1 f o 1 · · t t 1 e place ~ Perhaps it is unusua or a pr.- sified material rather than a 01termg 0 a~ . ·. E Spanish lOa (Second Year) to Gove=ent) . 1 hrR. ' fessor to be Interviewed at h1s · deep learning in a. limited, r>pe- Final Exuminat!On m. '\· Geology 23a (Structural Geol- Sociology 63 (The Fanu y) • Mathematics 4a (Calculus I) home ·I\a·ther than behlnd his <lesk. th d d G l · 21 (D\ff ntial · ~· ·.\ia!ized field on e un ergra • lOa (ELementary rap llCS) ogyl-in G.L. ZS Mathematics a ·. 1 ere (Sees. 1, 4, 7, 8 to C. L, 2<11) Professor Edward Smith took this ~ate level. and E. 20a (Advanced E. 30 (Strength of Materials) Equations) . Physics 21 (Electricity & intrusion into his private li-fe in \ll 1. • d r E. 32 (Physical Metallurgy) Mathematics 26 (Differential Magnetism) stride. He delighted his .inter.- Graphics) WI ue glv~n u • d d · 20 Equations) for EE & ME Education 3a (History of E'd- f h l ·ng tl1e last class pe_nod.s. We nes ay, .ranuary E.E. 21 (Dir·ect Current Cir- ucau·on) viewers )).y opening facets 0 :w t S 00 1 0 00 A 'M lt'fe whl\ n'-. could only be revealed Professor Smith sets a perfec Confll .cts 1·11 ExammatiOn'i : • : • ' cults & Machines) = th D Is Highly Flexible E !. h 19 (The Drama) 1 11·3\ A ·M 1·30 P M 1 ·n the home environment. For ex.- example of h. is ·O·Wll · eory. ur- shotlld be rel)ol ·ted to l\li \S ng Is a E.ID, 23 (Direct CUrrent C r- ' >J '. •• • . • • I h all d \' G ent 28a <American s s 50 (Soc\ta'l & Poli't!\hal ample, Professor Smith's hobby lS 1\ng World War I e was c · e overnm cults & Machinery) . . a · w Bouck in the Dean's Office Constitutional Development) E.ID. 40 (Iron-Cored Devices) Philosophy) music. Along with his stereo- upon to teach chemistry arid phys- before Friday, January 8. Biology 12a !Botany) Biology la (G~neral) phonic phonograph and tape re- ics as well as geology. Not only 1960. Physics 4a <Classical & Mod- Friday, January 22 Biology 6a (Human Biology) conlet·, the Professor collects ~- could he make the transition, but ern Physics) (Sees. 1, 3, 4, 7 · Biology lla (Zoology & Com· tique music boxes, one of. wh1ch Smith handled the job so well Saturday, January 16 to 0. L. 201) (Sees. 6, 9 to 8:00-10:00 A. 'M. parative Anatomy) . was manufactured in Switzerland that not one student 'faiied, After 1 :30·3:30 P.M. E.E. 22) Economics lla (Elementary) Geology 21a (Mineralogy & more than 100 years ago. Im- ·the war, he was again .free to con- Air Science la <First Year Physics lla (Atomic & Nu- · (Sees. 1, 4 to C. L. 201) Crystallography) -in G. L. mensely proud of his collecti<Jn he tinue to build his depart.rnent Basic) clear Physics) (Sees. 1, 2 to (Sec. 3 to E.E. 22) 23 is more than happy to demon- from \scratch and build it he Ai 1 • Science 2a !Second Year C. L. 201) Economics 39a (:Money and Education 4a (Adolescent Psy- strata these _rare instruments to did. Fr<Jm the second rate de· Basic) Physics 25a (Principles of Banking) chology) any and all !Visitors. partment ·he in.ne~ited in . 1.923, Ai 1 · Science 3a <First Year Electronics) Government 42a (Seminar in M.E. 30a (Applied Thermody- Protessor Smith graduated fl'Om Professor Smith bmlt an ·effiCient Advanced) 11 :30 A. M.-1 :30 ·P.M. Comparative Government) namics & Heat Transfer) Bowdoin College, Maine, and con- department that now can boast Air Science 4a lSecond Year Logic lOa <Logic & Scientific Religion 6la (An Introd. to M.E. 31a (Thermodynamics) tinued his education at Harvard of being the second largest majo·r Adlvanced) Method) the Bible-Old Testament) for :M.E.-in G.E. 303 University and MIT before c~m- field in Union College. Today the Monday, January 18 Philosophy 17a <Introduction Religion 62a (Religions of the 3:00·5:00 'P, M. ing to Union in 1923. At that trme Geology department offers nine 8 :00·1 0:00 A.M. to Philosophy) Far East) 0 Latin 1a (Elements of Latin) he lived in the old gy.m which at courses rather than the original Ph \! ·h 29a (History of Chemistry 26 (Advanced r- k 1 (Ell t of •Greek) the tt\me was a dormitory. He be- three and hn~ tw 1 \ce the num·ber Humanities 1a <Study of Ma· 1 asap Y Gree a emen s = & Ideas in Western Civiliza- ganic) Greek lla (Intermediate came a proct.or i~ South Coll~ng•e of pr~.fessors as it had when Pro· jor Wks. of Lit., Arch. PhySI·cs 33 <Atomic Physics) h t t m before bet g in 0 C tion) Course) for a s or m en · t , fessor Smith took orver in 1923. Artl- ' · Mathemat 1 'cs 31a <Advanced for Seniors y ) · th post of head proc or d History 21a <Modern & Con- . 1 El t French lOa (Second ear g1ven · e_ · . C 11 · In the Professors own war s, E ) Calculus) E.E. 44 <Industna ec ron- French lOb (Second Year and a res1dence m North 0 ehg~. \it's the eating that- proves the temporary UJ•ope C.E. 31a <Route Location) ics) 2nd Sem.) A bachelor when he be~an IS udding\ and Professor Smith Mathematics 3a t·Fundamen- ·C.E. \'a (.Structural TheOJ\') t R 1 h re Professor Smlt:h lost p , f t b tal Mathematics) ..., J 11:30 A. M.·l :30' P.M. S.S, 41a (Governmen e.gu a- career e • H 1 has certainly proved hirnsel o e Mathematics lla (Integral 3:00-5:00 P • M. Latin lla (Reading of Selec· tion of Buslness) his freedom when ~f~fessor h\r:d a dynamic influence, both intellec- Calculus) (Sees. 1, 2 to E.E. History 1a lHistory of West- ted Prose) Biology 22a (General Physi- mar Webb, of the . racy, 1 as- tual and scientifical, in h:is 36 Cl .vl\l!\zationl (Sees 1 2 ology) the future Mrs. Smith, now years of the Un\!on· campus. 22) ern ' • ' ' En·gl\sh 1 22a (The 17th Cen· (8 7 8 t E 40 (E · · Economy) sistant librarian. M~hematicsHaiD~fu~nti~ 3~G LIOO) ~. • o --~-~~~n~g~m~e~e~r~m~g~~~~~~~~~~==~--------------------- tury) Calculus) E.E. Z 2 > Russian lOa (Second Year) C.E. 4la !Structural Design) History 26a (Constitutional History 16a (History of the -in G. E. 305 History of England) E.E. 30 <Transmission Net- Philosophy 51a <Contemporary Hi~to~~ 33a (U. s. in the 2<lth works) British Phil. Problems) Century) E.E. 47 (Principles of Digital Sociology 70a <Human Rela- Chemistry 12a (Organic) Computers) tions in Industry) Geology 1a (General) 30 A •• 1 '30 p M Gl'ology Ha I Paleontology> \\-themati.'cs Z5a. (Theory of 11: • m.• : • • Chemistry 22a !Physicall-3 ••u. English lOa <Introduction to hrs. Equations & Abstract Alge- Englisl! Literature) 21 bra) English 21a !Chaucer) Thursday, January E. 34 (Fluid Mechanics) Art z:>a tHistory of Artl-ln 8:00-10:00 A.M. 0. C. English la <Freshman) (Sees. Government 47a <The U. S. 1, 5, 7 to E.E. 22) (Sees. 6, and World Politics) 8, 14 to G.E, 106) (Sees, 3, 4, 1 Local Government> English lla <Shakespeare) 3:00-5:00 'P.M. English 26a (Modern English Literature) Economics 43a (Principles of Marketing) Government 48a tState & 9, 12 to C. L. 201) I Geology 2a (Engineering) History 20a tMcdieval Eu· ,..._-------:------~ .11.E. 33 <Kinematics> -in G.E. 1 rope) 3()3 1 Chemistry 30a (Ad 'V an c e d 3:00·5:00 P.M. Physical) Spanish 20a \ Spanish-Ameri- 1 Geology 12a <Geology & Physi- can Literature) ography of the U. S.)-in I History 'Zia !Modern & Con- 1 G. L. 23 1 The ANNEX STEAK HOUSE. temporary Britain) 1 Psychology 24a (Applied Psy·l Histol-y 32a <So{!ial & Intel-1 chology) Steak Dinner, $2.75 I~ctual History of the U. S.) 1 M. E. 41 <Nuclear Engineer- ('!J,·mL;try z;ia •A•h·tiH'etl An- inh') in G. E. 301 alytical> 11:30 A. M.·l :30 P. M. i PsycholO.b'Y 12a I Statislical 1 Sociology 18a <Introductory I Methods) . i Sociology) Psychology 25 ISoc1al Psy- Economics 30a (Economic An- Here's a Wonderful Dinnar Designed for Everyone OPEN EVERY DAY FR 2-9740 ehology) I alysis) I 901 McClellan St. E. 21a <Analytical Mechanics> Sociology 5!)a (Social Prob- M.E. 43 (Machine Design I !ems) L-------------' TheOry) IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUilllllllllllllllllllllll•liiiiiiiiUIIIII~ Tuesday, January 19 8:00-10:00 A.M. • English 12a (American Litera- ture) French 1a (Elementary) -in E.E. 22 German la !Eh,mentaryl <Sees. 1, 3 to G.E. 106) Spanish la !Elementary! Music 24!). <Music Literature: from Classical to }'Iodern Times) . 1 Mathematics 22a <In t e:g r a 1 Calculus) E. E. 42 <Electronics Control and Servomechanism) Maurice B. Graubart & Sons 1 1 6 JAY STREET • • Union Night - December 14th Special Prizes for Students THIS NIGHT ONLY ::~·:: ::::: :-.;.; ••••••••••••••m•••••-•••• COMPUTERS; CAREERS and YOU .•. after you join Western Electric I I I I • I I I I I I I Junior Year • m New York An 11nusual one-year college program Write for brocll ure fo: • Prof. J. W. Egerer Washington Square College New York University New York 3, N.Y. • • • • DON'T MISS THE INSTITUTIONAL NIGHT FOR UNION MEN REFRESHMENTS SERVED • • • DOOR PRIZES FOR CUSTOMERS a . . . lfiiiiiU 1111111'!1111111 IJIIIIIIUIIII I IIIII Ia t 111111111111111 II II U 111111111111111111111111111111:· FERRO'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Jtalia11-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Interested in computers, computer technol- ogy and applications?·Then you should inves- tigate Western Electric as a place to build your career. Telephony today is built around computers. The telephone cross-bar switch is basically a computer. Electronic switching gear uses computer principles. At its new engineedng research center and at most of its 25 manufacturing locations, Western is relying more and more on com- puters in doing its tnain job as manufacturing and supply unit for the Bell Telephone System . In its other major field- Defense Communi· cations and Missile systems - the use of com- puters and computer technology is widespread . You'll discover quickly that opportunities with Western Electric are promising indeed, Here company groWth stands on a solid base, and your own growth, too. We estimate that engineers will find 8,000 supervisory jobs open to them in the next ten years. There will be corresponding opportunities for career build- ing within research and engineering. Progress is as rapid as your .own individual skills permit. And Western Electric maintains both full-time all-expenses-paid graduate engineering train· ing and tuition refund plans to help you move ahead in your chosen field. Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, indus- trial, civil and chemical engineers, as well as In the physical sciences. For mora information get your copy of Conside1 a Career at Western Electric from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Raom 200E, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. Be sure to arrange for a Western Elecirlc Interview when the llell System team visits your campus. .UNII OF 1111 BEL& SYS~ Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago; Ill.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa., Burlington, Greensboro and Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Lincoln and Omaha, Neb.; Kansas Clt)f, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla.; Teletype Corporation, Chicago 14, Ill. and Little Reick, Ark. Aiso Western ·Eiectrlo Olstribution Centers In 32 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters• 195 Broadway, New\vork 7, N. Y. I I I l L f \ i I.·. I I I \ .. \ Frida - Tlds the to] it a.ppl to dis rercoll pi'eseJJ the gE Athl Ameri very i higher sports the fa at Ha in the The partmo and i! era. sc the C' the ell was b JI,881WJ someti Grat systen ~ :. ,i ~mana! taken the fa opeJ collegt i I I . I I l I I i i ! - j ·:! ~ ·I .~ ·.-·(. ,, f ( ' fl ,-.~·f ~ ! ··t MtE letio li bodies bega.JJ fiOrtiOi bega.DI the Ia sica! I were contr11 to de' sports devel11 'letics abllSel' by th• of tb esxieci develo underi progn The ape ti bitiou: necesE and f many propel trol a port t fin an< The Lea.gti has t merci The c tercol found sport, accru• sport. found mans! O'f COl Thi: specb placet positi rely < athlet claim givip.l flight no lo nil\g cerne who the o woulc justif athlel ·-- i I I I t I i 11 I ! • i Siz 1'0' -._. 16 1

1959 ir- own e Geol- is student funda- sub- is a grad- diver- a r>pe- perfect Dur- called phys- only but well After to con- it he de- 1923, boast majo·r the rs nine original number Pro- in 1923. words, the Smith to be intellec- h:is 36 ::: ~ :::: ~~:~:: ·:~ Pa., Moo~ ·Eiectrlo 7, N.Y. I I I l L f \ i .. I.·. I I I \ . \ ~ : • . 1 ! i I I _} . I ·:! I ~ l ·I .~ I ·.-1. I ,, f i ' fl I .-.~·f ~ ! ··t friday. !December n, '1'59 5 S,now Flurries Hoopsters Drop Third Gager~ To· Meet Httf!tilton Doyle ... G . arne Of P.oo·r SeaSO·ll And Rochester Thts week (Continued from Page 1) By Leslie Mar'rus Tlds week, rather than pursue the topl:o Of sj)orts schOilarships -as it applies to Union, we have ehos_en t(} discuss the institution of m- . rercollegiate athletics and their present status a.s they aJPply to the general C{)llege scene. Athletics was in evidence in American collegiate life from the very inception of institutiops for · higher learning. Of the moder:n sports fo9tball probably gee~ b~ck the farthest; having its begmnmg . at Harvard, Princeton and Yale in the 1830's. \Lack of size and experience have been the main freshman team and the contacts P roblems in. ()IUr' first three games this year,\ commented he has made with talented high ' f ·school players. \The team has Coach Carl Witzel on the Garnet cagers per ormance shown progress ·in the .past year- this season. Jie added that 0 and there was a definite indica- \too many mistakes and a s b F• d >lion that Union football was shortage of practice time . e · 0 ~ Ire headed for better things ne:xt I h us.\ :rear. Now it will be difficult for have . o.efinitey urt B .. _. u···. - f. p-.. the players to make the adjust- The Dutch111en, who have .y· 0 ment to a new coach after they dropped theil' first three \ • have learned to play my brand of contests this sear to Middle- By \Sports Illustrated\ ball.\ bury, Hobart, and R.PI, meet Football fans .may C?ncede Pedagogism Evaluated Hamilton tomorrow night a degr~e of privacy m the and Rochester Wednesday, domestic arrang~ments of in an effort to improve their colleges and their ~oaches, record before the Christmas but . whe_n a _coach IS_ sum- break mar1ly fJ:red In the midst of · festivities celebrating his Hamilton ha.s always been tough on their home court and greatest victory, the fans- advance SC01Lti11og reports praise and quite rightly___:_feeJ they their good heigh-t and depth. They have a right to know why. The ~rganimtion of formal ~a­ partments of Pb.ysical Education . and Athletics dates baek to an era somewlulit before the turn of the century. Their funC!tion in the early days of their existence was to conduct compulsory gym;- JJ,88iwn drills for freshmen and sometimes fru upperclassmen. have two wins -without a loss to · their credit, a..ga.inst Brooklyn Note Doyle Pa.rallel Steve Seb<>, a first-class back- field coach at Michigan State, was brought to the University of Penn- sylovania as head football coach six years ago at the darkest mo- ment of Quaker gridiron history. Penn at that point was in a state of transition from football power- house to Ivy League de-emphasis. AB a result, Sebo foWld himself facing a left-over schedule of some of the toughest teams in the country with a pitifully de-empha- sized squad of nonsubsidized scholars. In two years he lost 19 straight games. The Q.ecision to replace Doyle as Head Football Coach came about as a result of an evaluation report sent to President Davidson by Wilford Ketz. Evaluation repoct.s a.re submitted annually by the de- ·l>artment heads, in which each faculty member is rated as to the effect~veness of his teaching per- formance in the past year. It is .then the president's job to decide ·on any faculty c.hanges, promo- Hons or salary increases. As a re- sult of Ketz's report., and after a .g-ood deal of con.sultation with .competent authorities on the sub- ject of football, President David- son decided to replace Doyle in his capacity as Varsity Football Goach. Poly and Utica, >:ATho· they trounced · by more than 20 points. The Gradually thel,\e grew up a whole system of intercollegiate sports, . ~ management of which was und,er- taken by various bodies other the faculty and there was devel- opeJ an institution within the college. Mter years of strug~le by ailbr letio boiards Bnd other c.ontrolling bodies to make ends meet f(){)tball bega.JJ to a.ssllDle gargantuan fiOrtio.ns. Profits from :f()l[)t~lallll bega.Ill to support other sports. In the larger b:J.stitutlons huge phy- sical p~perties were set up. Stuns were a.ppr()p~ted by th(}se in control of intercollegiate athletics to develop ol'ganized intra.mluraJ sports Again properties were deveioPe41 and the talk Oil \ath- ·Jetics for a.ll\ began. Now the abuses of football were jliStified by the use of profits. In a. few of the larger institutions, and esxieciaJly in the middle-west, ilhe development of departme11ts to undertake the management of this program began. The small colleges, wishing to ape the la!'ge ones, attempted am- bitious programs without the necessary profits from football and financial troubles arose. ·In many small colleges the college proper was forced to assume con- trol and give more financial sup- port to athletics in order to avoid financial disgrace. Chnck Marshall, star center, attempts a against a Hobart defender in last Saturday's 62-53 loss Statesmen, at Meml.orial Field House. By Leslie Marrus Last Wednesday night the Garnet hoopsters dropped their third straight game 58-52 to an RPI .quintet. Sloppy play and mistakes in the basi~ fundamentals of the game cha1·acterized the Dutc!f- j _ men's play in both thlS: 1 score six straight pomts to put week's O'ame at th'e Troy some new life into the gan:e, b~t o ' ·d ' John Brack scored s1x pomts m courts, and last Satm ay s the closing minutes to clinch the 62-53 home loss to the Ho- game for the Trojans. bart Statesmen. The game was characterized by The Union cagers opened fast, the walking and palming penal- compiling a score of 15-7, but were ties that have plagued the team unable to tally for the next five this season. Less fouling was in and a half minutes of play. RPI evidence in Wednesday's game managed to even up the score than in the Hobart and Middle- and pass the Garnet 20-19. With bury games. There still was a five minutes left to play in the problem, however, with the play- half the Engineers forged ahead ers throwing away the ball. The to close out the first half 28-26. shooting in this gan1e was way Marshall Sets Paee below standard with a 20 for 68 record, or a 29 percent average. The trend today in mlm.y Ivy Ohuck Marshall led the. Dutch- Saturday's home game against League and small men's schools m~n's ~coring ~fforts w1th ~en Hobart, before a capacity crqwd, has tu.rned ;a.'Wiay from tale OOIDr pomts m the first half. Mflke saw the Garnet quintet Jose to an mercialistic a.ttitude o1>f the past. Bluestein was al>le to ~-c~re our inferior Hobart squad. In the The current justification for in- points b_efore a!l ·ankle InJUry_ pr-e- point of all-around talent the fav- tercollegiate a.tbleti~s is not to be ventedh1s playmg_ the remamder ored Dutchmen should have walk- found in its llU)rits as a specta.tor o.f the game. It IS not known at ed away with it hut mi~takPs at sport, but in the benefits to be this time. if Bluestein wtll. be able i cr-itical· times i~ the game cost a.oorued fr01111 participation in the to play m th1s Saturdays game 1 the team points and the ga·me. sport. These benefits are to be against Hamilton. 1 found In sueh ideals as sports- The play in the first half came Game Play Moves Spccta·tors m.anshlp, teamwork, a clea11 spirit ·in spurts, ranging in quality from The Witzel-mentored squad o1' competiti'lln, etc. fair to miserable. The team failed played well enough to lead at to adequately capitalize on th.e op- half time, 33-29. The second half, This claim of disinterest in the portunities that were av:'-1lable however, was enough to move spectator aspects of athleti-cs has and was unable to contam the part of the home crowd to leave placed those eolleges in a delicate RPI offense, which was able to the game before the half was out. position. They no longer can run rampant over the Garnet de- The team completelyfell to pieces rely on their old explanation for fense. in this half, making many basic athletic scholarships; they cannot RPI's Jackman opened up the mistakes \which you wouldn't claim that they are justified in second half by scoring six straight find on a good high school team.\ giving financial aid to get top- points for the Troy Engineers. At The home quintet found them- flight athletes because they ar-e one po.int in the garr:e the RPI selves unable to maintain posses- no longer out to produce a win- contingent succeeded 1n ~roaden- sion of the ball and literally threw nil\g team, but are mo.l'e con- ~ng the lead to 44-32. W1tzel, a~ the game away. In the end the cerned wit~ providing those men, m past games; resorted to rep!a~ Dutchmen went down by a nine who enjoy sports activity, with ing men on a _wholesale s?ale. m point margin. Pelton with 12 the opportunity to participate. It an effort to f_ md a combmat10n pol·nts and Bluestein with 11 would now seem that there is no h ld 1 k f t at. wou · c 1 ': • points were far ahead of their justification for the awarding o w 1 th two mmutes left to the teammates in the scoring cn'umn. athletic -scholarships-or is there? game John Pelton was able to . ·-------~-~~------~ ~·--~~~------~----, I L u I G I I s I l CITY HALL I i RESTAURANT I I LAUNDERETTE l 1 S i 1 • • • 1 t •,, 529 Liberty St. l 1 t pee a IZIDg In J Italian-American .Food t ! Do It Yourself Laundry 1 t 1125 BARRETT ST. 1 I Washers- 25c a week I • ~ Schenectady Dl 6-9744 t t (Holds up to to lbs.) t' I Large Dryers • I Oc for I 0 min. i Enioy Our I (Holds up to 40 lbs.) I Sizzling ~teaks and Chops • 1 Open 24 hours a day - 'I 1 1c D U · M 7 days a week For All Your Paint and Hardware Needs See Us CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 730 STATE ST. Phone FR 4-4123 I I 0 0 iscount to mon en t L ________________ _J ~--.·--·----~--- .. -----------------------------------------------------, 160 LAFA ETTE ST. nWitere Cllapal meets Lafayette• FRanklin 2-0501 DIAMANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A Prace to G.o to Refax Opp.\The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. Continentals wU·T be led by a 6-5 freshman center who tallied 22 points against BTooldyn Poly, and two, high--scor-ing guar&, Palmer and Adolph. They definitely have tP,e advantage b1. :height, but ac- cording to Witzel, \Who hasn't? We are giving inches away to each team on ol!lr schedule.\ Roehes:tm- Powerful The Y ellowj~c}{ets fr<>m Roches- ter are one o:f t:he best teams on the Garnet sc:bedule, and the toughest Unio!l has faced yet. They are pa.ced by last year's high scorer, BiJJ Yantz, who needs but 69 points t(} break the school scoring record, and all indica- tions are that he will have earned them before be hits Schenectady. Rochester is ·Ul!:ldefeated, hruving pasted Allegheny and squeeZild past Alfred. [n ;addition to Yantz, they boast tw-o other high scoring lettermen in Tooo Flynn and Doug Pies. The Yellotvjackets also have last year's three: top scorers from the Fresh team ready for action, topped by Mike :Berger, who made the All-New York City team as a high schooler at Erasmoo Ra.ll. Rochester borut..s excellent height as well as ac\ur:acy and should be a formidable fos. ' Witzel, who c~hed at Brighton High in Roches-ter, prior to com- ing to Union., said, \I have had experience with these boys, since many come i'r()om the Rochester area, and .th-ey will be hard to stop.\ ---o--~ The RPI wrestling team suc- cee-ded in their attempt to spoil the Union mat <lebut by defeat- ing the Garn~t 21-11 on Wednes- day at Alumml GYm.na.simn. Union's n<'d sta.rt is on Ratur- day at BrooWy-n Poly. •• ,IJe.cause onJy 6eoesee t.rews exq!usively To its credit, while portions of the alumni howled fw his head, the university re-signed Sebo when his contract expired. The sorely tired coach repaid the ges- ture during the next three years by lifting Qu.aker football virtual~ ly by its boostraps from a dismal place in the cellar of the Ivy League to its undisputed 1959 championship. Then last week he was fired. Why? No ExplanatWn Given The nearest thing t<> an explan- ation that Penn Athletic Director Jercy Ford chose to give the pttb- lic was an invitation to newsmen to \Asswne anyti1i.ng you like.\ One assumption most of them made Is that the real reason for Sebo's firing Jay deep in the rift that formed among Penn alumni and athletic circles during his losing years. Sebo himself had been informed even before his championship sea,. son began that his contract would probably not be renewed. One as- swn.ption made by the newsmen is that the lessons of sportsman- ship and fair play which under de- emphasis become the only excuses for football in the Ivy League are not considered very important in Penn's hallowed halls. The college in a statement to ,the press stressed the pC>int that coach Doyle was not being drop- I>ed from his present position for iLis won-loss record, but for the betterment of football coaching at Union, since D<>yle's teaching was not deemed to be at the desired Doyle Refuses Allison Job The college decided to app<>int Keith Doyle to the position of Freshman Football Coach, pres- ently held by Bruce Allison. Doyle, in discussing his new posi- tion asserted, \I was hir-ed as a Vat·sity Football Coach. My plans .for the future don't include frosh coaching at any time.\· After aJll official meeting with Ketz, at which he was offered the fresh- men coaching position, Doyle re- fused the offer. - \I have not decided what I will be doing, as yet. I will remain at Union for the rest of the year, un- less I receive an offer that de- mands my participation tn spring training,\ Doyle revealed. \I will not turn down any job of Varsity ·Football Coach that is offered to me.\ Doyle came to Union as Sam Hammerstrom's replacement j.n 1957, on a three year contract. Doyle has been at the helm of the Garnet team during the past two winless seasons. In 16 games, over- this period, Union suffered l5 losses and produced one· score- lells tie. ONLY GENESEE HAS THE bright TASTf IN BEER 1~,:;:;:~111~1111~!:~1!11111 With the water of spiling-fed Hemlock Lake!

I ' ,, 6 attitude.\ There was evidence of this,. bl4t there was· also evidence here of a shor.tco.ming of the di- rectors to remedy this situation. Letters To The Editor stead of \criminal negligence.\ At I tt~nately Mr. Somers overlooked Mr. Somers men:tioned that there least we can hope that the aroused the human element in his h~te is a problem of direction in pro\ spirits of the sincere •participants to condemn the production. His ducing the p.Jay, but failed to will be extended in the future, in .attack upon Mr. DiCenzo was apply the .problem (certain prob- a manner befitting the nature of\ particularly distasteful. He blam- lema,) to the .actual production. student grievances. If this does ed Mr. DiCenzo for forcing out Thus, the full blame for not meas- not happen, and the demonstra- his lines with a \mono-intensity\ uring up to· Mr. Skioot while in- (Continued from Page 2) prove or disprove itself, We must remember that Sam Hammer\ strom did not lea'Ve much of a legacy to Doyle in terms of ath- letic material. Union had already begun its downfall in the last days of Hammerstrom. Thus it seems impossible to judge Doyle's ability as a coach .before his ef- forts materialized. tion was purposeless . . . and with a constant \veh.e!Illlnt terpreting a character with \no Walter H. Clasey . }iersonality,\ fell to Mr. DiCenzo. * * To the Editor of Concordiensis: In the December 4, edition of Concordiensis, I was particularly shocked to read the article \ 'The Trial' Judged\ by Mr. Wayne · Somers, in which he attaclted the Mountebanks production with an .Jnfair and at times merciless volley of accusations. He cor- rectly stated that \The Trial,\ is a problem play; an actor:.'s prob· !em, a dit·ector's problem, and when the curtain falls, a critic's problem. He unfortunately deals with but one of these, the actor's. Why did so many students at- tend the rally? There is an at- mosphere of unrest at Union re- lating to the athletic program al!d the rally was an expression of this situation. At this point vre are anticipating a series of losing teams throughout the '59-'60 sea• son and we want to know why. In these dark times we feel that the college must do something to al- leviate the dreary prospect, whether it be through scholar- ships, or more appropriately, a better admissions process. The majority in attendance Wednes- day night were not there for the sake of hearing their own shouts resound acr·oss the cam·pus. Tbey were there to unleash sentiments which have l>een dormant thPse past two yPars. Although lhe campus \doubters\ may dismis~ the incident as \childish\, they must remrmhPr that th<' grnl·rnl· ly apathetic Umon studt•nt muf)t haV<\ some real ·grievanc(' in order to stag~ a nla!:i.:S dl'lllun:\tratiun Was Rally Valid? He claimed that the dialogue was \often obstrusively awkward,\ but that tt needn't have been so if all the actors had performed with the ''near-pi·ofessional natur· alness\ of .Mr. Skloot. If all the !JCI'ful'lllteiS po,;s~SSCU the acting pt uwt·,;,; of ~IL Skluot then• would have bc•c•n no problem. Unfor· Literary .. • .. ,.Cuntinu,·d fl'Om P~gc 3l a it.:llgtuuti f~1th and •lt·votior: ~ouaucn.:>Ul alt.: \\' ;th thL·ir:; ·~ Sunh mtde~ting I<Jlll:uks on this p!'Oh· leta \1 figut, l can bt• indif'ft·r· ~Ill tu an l!ldlff clt:Ilt God\; \Ju- J.ablll h.1s 111,t ;..;atisfil•,l n1y _..;pir·it uo1l hullbt·•·. mthJ ,b :t loa-< h····n\; \l hun: ll<\..:1 felt the Ill'<'<! for· .Jiviu< ,;uit.!:lllC~,.,, \\\'hat turns mo.: away fro111 ali kinds of organ· !zed religion is, abow nil. the cere- mony and ritual they invoive''- were stated by the eleven. (Advertisement) NOT FORTHEYAHOOS ·o The critics of such miles- apart weeklies as Time and the New Yorker concur in the judgment that \AT THE·. DROP 0:&' A HAT\ two-man revue by and with Michael Flanders ar.d Donald Swann, resid.ent at the Golden Theatre since October 8th, is the best musical of the new theatrical season. In a rare burst of en- thusiasm, Time's Louis Kron- enberger salutea the invaders thus: \The two of them are · notably British but notably themselves-·casual and infor- mal, yet with the timing of the solar system and the teamwork of thr Lunts. Altogether they arP a~ engagingly funny a pair as any nation need ask for or ctny theatr<' season expect, and h:tV<' given Broad'way its gay· <'4 \\''ning ~inr<' 'La Plum<> de ma Tnte' ... Tht• :-;, . ..-. Yorl<er's cidulous and omniscient Kenneth Tynan _,h,•athed his ._dirk on seeing \AT THE DROP OF A HAT\ and calit'd it \two hours of wlt, charm. h<'art<'ase and immacu- The i;hird problem. in .the ~\prob- lem\ play is that of the critic. Perhaps this is the area of :Mr. late timing M1·. ::lwann is · innorenc<', l\lr Fland!'rs experi- ence, an<l th!'it' coalition is irre- sistible. There is nothing on Broadway I wo1.1ld ratlwr see twice.\ ·Somers' greatest failul'e. 'It i$ the job ·of the critic of an amateur production such as the o:ne re- viewed to judge the final produc- tion as an aesthetic experience . while tal~:ing into account any pertinent dif:ficmlties in producing the play, In other wotlds, the re- viewer must be both anaLyticallY critipal and aware of the ~echnical ·an(!: human obstacles of producing the play at the same time. \The Tvial\ is a. difficult novel to read, and the production .of it •ent:;t.1ls many add'ed and often seemingly impossible problems. It is truly i unfortunate that Mr. Somers fail- . ed to explain and aiiow for the.Se problems. If, in the future, Mr. Somers. again endeavors •to give his opin• ions on any collepe pt!oduction, I hope th~y will be of a fairer and more tasteful nabi.re. · ~lin J;. •Ginsberg ' \\' *· * * To the Editor of <Joncordien!Ois: I am sorry that t shocked .Mr. Ginsberg. Wayne Somers Was the rally valid as an ex- pression of student sympathies'? Yes and no. A t·ally I» Ju.>tified if tho:>re IH a caw;e and if there art· no partlCI(Jants whu are .pres· Pnt to cause damage to property and persons. We must admit that whether we can pinpoint a cause or not, the spirit of the rally leaves some hope for student in- terest in campus affairs, athletic or otherwise. However, there were some pe(}ple present who prefer- red to give vent to their enthus- iasm by burning crosses and throwing stones at doors. This was unfortunate and ·stripped demonstration of much of its pur- pose. Moreover, the unforeseen presence of firecrackers and gas- oline resulted in a near disaster- ens climax to the event. We must regret that some of the students had to resort to such expressions. Nevertheless, we should also bear in mind that if the rally was col- lege sponsored, rather than spon- taneous, any accidents would have been attributed to fate in- On the whole, I think t:he book re.presents an intelligent and laud- able effort to bring forward the problems that face college stu- dents-and to some extent all young adults. The essays are honest, well-written, perceptive and demand the respect of the reader. I think the fact that we .. as a generation, are unsilent- that we possess this quality of self-conscious criticism-is in it- self a commendable, though much overlooked, attribute. The reviewers on New York's daily newspapers echoed the hosannas of Kronenberger and Tynan, showering Flanders and Swann with such exquisite ad- jectives as \faultless\, \im- peccable\ \satirical\, \witty\, \sophisticated\. One adjective· was common to all the reviews, an adjective rarely employed to describe Broadway musicals; \civilized\. The Saturday Re- view's HenrY Hewes voiced the consensus of his peers when he closed his tribute to Flan- ders and Swann and their \AT THE DROP OF .A HAT\ with WHAT D'YA HEAR The Unsilent Generation. By Otto Bntz, 189 PP. New York: Rinehart & Company, Inc., $2.95. these words: \The ultimate In civilized entertainment\. do your Christmas shopping no·1v •.• for Gifts of Ar1·o·w Shi1·ts ~:;::ff Get a smart start on the Christmas rush and shop ':':? now for the gift men love to receive ... ~~ Arrow oxfords. See our smart collar styles that fit perfectly, stay fresh longer. In traditional stripes, solids, white. $5.00, JOS. NUSBAUM. INC. Phone FRanklin 4-9157 447-451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. wherever you go ... YOU LOOK BETTER IN AN ARROW SHIRT For holiday festivities-or anytime you want to look your best-treat yourself to a lion's share of flattery-the kind you'll find in an Arrow. In 100% cotton oxford . that stays neat, Arrows are a pleasure to wear ••• And, a most acceptable gift for rhe man who prizes fine tailoring. In favorite collar styJeg. $5.00. ..-ARROW_._ E11ch Saturday see the NCA.A football \Game of the Week\-NBC TV-sj)onsor&d by ARROW. I N THE B EST 0 F C I R C L E S ? If a I - If great taste is your target, aim ~traight for Schaefer. Here's beer with a smooth round taste .•• never sharp, never flat. Man, that's beer ... REAL BEER! THE F. & M, SCHAEFER BREWING 00,. NEW YO~K and mANY, 8. t :,[1 i . ) I '.l '· .. \ I· . ;1 i . ':! .:; ·.it :}1 . yl . ·; l · .... ~ .. 'I >I 1 ·;i ·, y .1 ·l' .I 1 :~ ,. ' ' j l. ! .! ·~ ... i i I 1.· ·' .. ~ ~ VOL. 8 s. I A Tl voted Co unci presen After O'Lougl tive to 1 confirm by the vetoed • the Col Preside gPsted tion to that WE in prf'~< faculty ever. tl \hP pre CJUPSted. .port as fc>rrPd Stcph TIPp!\PS( lh·· pro wuy thi the Stu u. defe: year, tl put up Studen1 who he mit tee, result c by the of the could 1: as pres They r• ing/' O'Loug s.ee m~ turn m ., Fuel O'Lou.g of whc matter: authori Union. should listing say on the St1 it ups< body Ruth, HPC, i ing th• cil rep: body, , 60-70% a frat · i should ; only fr studen under . I former '· referri stated, ,.: posses: itely ' The · 1 direct! will a by Ge' ial Cl! \ This c twent~ group, since i The about compo erick 1742, ately ing cu Mes!>U Jenne: the p• UnlikE tions, very , an au orator AIU a\-e a solois1 Ba'bib Davis or, ar amon1 ists VI with· The ganiz• tlon (I and i rangi dents

6 BPgan at Four A native of New Orleans, Miss Coci began her musical studies on the piano at the age of four and when she was only eight years old gave her first public recital in het' native city. Although consid- ered a promising pianist of t·he highest ·caliber, she was attracted to the organ and began her les- sons on that instrument at the age of Lhirteen. Three yeat·s later she was engaged as chief organist at her family church in New Or- leans. Through her brilliant work at the church, Miss Coci attracted the attention of the late Bernard R. LaBerge, prominent manager· of organ virtuosi in this country and abl'oad. LaBerge, who subse- quently became both her husband and business manager, arranged for ful'ther studies under Palmer C'hristian at the University of Michigan and later, after thE>ir marriag<' introduced her to th1· great F r en e h organist and teacher, !11arcel Dupre, in Paris. Cod :t:minent Withm recent years, .:),1Jss Coci has nsen to a position of emin- ence runong the world's organists. She has performed with major symphony orchestras, has given solo r\cttals from coast to coast, and claims the di~tinction of be- ing t:he ftrst organist of her sex to perform at ~he U. S. Military Academy. The mother of twin sons she was widowed in 1951. U~ion·s Chr·istmas Festival is presented each year as a special community service. All portions of the program are open to the pu!Jhc without charge. Chap<'l CrPdits Giv<'n Two chapel credits will be given for the afternoon organ recital, and two for the evening service. The next of the Sunday vespers will come on January 11, when the Reverend Duncan Howlett of the First Church in Boston <Uni- tarian) will be the speaker. Auction., .. ('Continued from Page 1 > by ~Irs. Art Lawrence was bought by William Vanneck. Sigmi Chi purchased Jonathan Pear~on'9 sl'rvices a.c; a wall paint- er for four dollars. Two fra- ternities purchased evE>nings of ltve, stc>reo.phonic music. Richie Balsam, complete w1th his piano stylings, was bought by Psi Up- silon for 28 dollars and the Dutch Pipers went to Delta Chi for 2:> dollars. Phi Delta Theta paid li dollars fol' the waiting services of four secretaries. A .corsage, ava'ilable in any color and do- nated by Professor· Harlow, was sold to Blaize Cooke for five dol- lars. Miss Travis' typing st'r- vices were bought by Joel Ticl;- nor for six dollars. Two slightly used snow tires brought 20 dol- lars and the two latest Dave Bru- beck albums, donated .by WRUC. sold fo1· ten and one-half dollars. The Ca:mpus Chest was 185 dol- lars wealthiet· after the auction. The Delphics are considering holding anoth·ct· such event in the spring. ---0·--- Winne ••• (Continued from Page 3) shop squatting on the gt·ound, playing a curious game. Two players participatP, one w'ith 10 red pe-bbles and his opponent with 10 black ones. The ea1·th betwet'n them is marked out with tht·ee concentl'ic squares of symmetri- cally decreasing size. The peb· bles are arranged on these squares which are bisected by other lines and the pebbles are m<>ved sidewise. It looked a little like checkers, but I don't talk Tm·key and had to leave unen- lightened. DR. ELMER TIDMARSH HELP Plan Reviewed. • • <Continut'd from Page 3> big citi.:s and in the rural dis- Lrict,; of the South. They lilte the efficiency of the two .party ~ystem, but ·qu-estion whether it adequately reflects the differ- ences of political opinion found in the European system. In Mscuss- mg foreign ·policy, they find it difficult to explain why the U.S. forced GreRt Britain and France to withdraw from the Suez and yet went into Lehanon w'ithout hesitation. Hom!' Ufe 'Cl\itieizPd In g~ner.r.l, attitud.:,; toward ou.r honw hfe wHe Vf'I'Y critical in cond,·mnation of our disin- tegrating family unit, under the intlucncc of television and ·other <I ist t·action~, a:1d th,, incn'ase of juv<'nilt• dl'linquency. Major con- cern was expres3ed over the H·eat- mcnt of the! :-.1rgro, and the for- ~ll'r· ~ ll'dl'nt,; i ndicatPd difficulty in explaining the Little Rock :'to1·y Their only explanation ·was that Little Rock V>ouldn't 'be in the news if the American people, throu;; h the Supr<>me C()urt, wvrt'n't trying to do somethmg constructiYe ahout racial s!'grega- tion. Edueation Inf~>rior As to education, it was felt that Amc·rican ~e·condary school grad- uates know far les,; than tbeir European counlct·parts, parlicu- laly in the an•a of languages, lit- ' tatun:', lvistory, science, and ·ma- thcma tics. but they also .realized •hat American schools educate a much hight'r percen:tage of that age group than do European schools. \Vonder was ex.pressed at the movies W•' send to Europe, suc,h as Blarkboa.rd Jungle, as a pic- tun~ of American schools. 'The awrage European thin,ks of Am- erica as the home of the western movie or gangster picture and of rock and roll. \In summary,\ Pt·esid<>nt David- >:on :vi 1tP<l. \w<' felt that altho ug-h we have given these <oreign stu- dents a ct'ifficult tasi{ to interpret America to EurC>pe, they are do- ing so in a friendly and un<ier- standing fashion. The inv-estment in internationAl cooperation is paying off in a vct-y unusual way.'' ~a•a••••=•m=••••••••••~ a a ~ a : FOR CAR TROUBLES : : SEE A UNION MAN : • • • • 5 William H .. Plat!! 5 • • : Auto Service : • • • • • • • 1372 Union St. :: • • :schenectady Dl 6-48~5• • =~••••am•mm•9•••••••••~ l ____ i_u_i_G_i;_s ____ l RESTAURANT f Specializing in : Italian-American foocf : 1125 BARRETT ST. ~ Schenectady 016-9744 Enjoy Our I Sizzling Steaks and Chops · ~~!~~i::_o~~~~~-~~~~-~~~~ Friday, ,December '12, 1958 WALKER•s PHARMACY • A Hillel bt·uneh wiH be ·he1d on Sunday, December 15, at 11 A. M. in the Hale House. A faculty member will be the guest speaker. The brunch will be free for members of Hillel 3-nd will cost non-members 25c. Two members of the swimming terurn are loolting for rides to Ft. LauderdaJe, Florida in order to attend the East-West Swinuning , Meet. Would anyone driving to . the vicinity of Ft. Lauderdale during the Christmas recess please contact coach Ed Fedoslky. Ex- penses will be shared. 509-51 I STATE STREET FR 4-7709 SENIORS! Be job where there to • lS get sure a • • • Famed New Jersey sea· shore resorts • • • trout streams and lakes • • • wooded hills, parks and forests • • • all add up to making New Jersey a wonderful place to live, work and play. You'll find NEW JERSEY is a great place for good work ••• and GOOD LIVING! You,ll find NEW JERSEY • ts a great place for good work . and GOOD LIVING! • • One of the most important phases of your future job is the place where you live ... and New Jersey is famous for good living. The Gar- den State abounds with recreational facilities to suit everyone, and it is close enough to metropolitan cen- ters so you can enjoy every kind of sport and cultural pursuit. Public Service Electric and Gas Company is a rapidly growing util- ity serving the vast majority of resi- dents of New Jersey. You would be wise to consider working for this progressive company, one of the largest operating in a dynamic industry today. • • • • • • • • Send For This Today Write now for your copy of the brand new brochure, \Training Courses for College Graduates\. Write Public Service, 80 Pa~k Place, Room 2152A, Newark, New Jersey, for your free copy. PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS co., NEWARK 1, N. J. A-331·58 ByMo1 A new the culm years of ning, wiH the near Henry S< i l'ocal busi tee of Un Announcc gift, in exc ·dollars, wa: ::·: dent ~Cartel it as \. · · come and 1 ·.i Lii:I Pa VOl. 88, Act By Henry new libra and activ' lege. AT is also a of Trustc School at1 ernors oJ addition, scholarsh' up in rr Morris S other sch \Mr. Sc erosity,\ Carter I \reflects portance he has o We are he has ll ment of war goal justify : dence.\ Sc;l A pror. Schaifer known for his prises a thropic his cent: also col! ical Scb hospitali Gates o: instituti< In o.tl is a dire pedie E Hospita: ber and tionai .P. and a 1 Yorks: the St Comme1 Hen~ inent fc in the and as of Em! New 1i owned cent a Union I: A Sc ed his Grocer: proved 163-uni which Mohav lowing super-! 1932, the sr the la1 which tire e! 41 stc Grand annou of Sol of Dil w dien the will

