1960 ·between of inte- between races. first ln- ould be, 'I.LS first North- ·will St. I West Europe's Economy Page 4 Page 3 F oJJ;nded at llnion College in 1877 V'O'L. '8!, 'No. 24 SCHE'NECIT~DY, 'N. Y., 'Fit.i'D'AY, MAY 6, '1960 PRICE TEN CENTS Stan Rubin· Plays Tonite Hi~Lo'sSat. Kirchgasser Elected D~rmCouncil Ruth Wins Bailey Cup, To IFC Presidency Ctte,sCollege Prom Weekend festivities will officially begin this eve- ning with ~he formal Prom at the Van Curler Hotel. The music wrll be provided by the Tiger Town Five, for the first time by a well known band. The Class of '61, in an all out effort to make this . weekend a huge S\\].CCeSS has·. unprecedently hired two known celebrities to perform,. the second being the cele- brated Hi-Lo's. Preceding t)le pre>m, will be an interfraternity sing ih Memorial Chapel at 7:30. It may pl'ove to be an entertaining prelude to Sat- urday's festivities. Athletes to Com.pete William Kirel1gasse:r, lieJW~Y elected President of te:rnity Council . is pictured above N)Ceiving the symbolic 'gavel frOim outgoing President ·Leo Dunn. :Kirchgasser was elected at last Tuesday evening's meeting. Tomorrow will constitute a full schedule. In the early afternoon there will be a Union-Rochester baseball game on Alexander Field. Following the game, many houses will be sponsoring cocktail parties. After ·dinner our campus will bqast the voices of the High-Lo's, wJlo ·have ibeen characterized by Steve Allen, as being able to \float a chord like a bubble through the By Lloyd Nurick happy air.\ Their \bubbly\ voices William Kirchgasser, was elected President of the In- wm entertain at 8;30 in Memorial f C Chapel. The weekend will <be ter raternity ouncil o·n Tuesday evening, May 3, at the climaxed Saturday evening with IF'C's bi-weekly meeting. Elected to the positions of 'Secre- the individual House Parties. tary and Treasurer were • It is a breach of tradition ip. Robert Hurlbutt and Hay- sponsoring a singing group on a d B A h PI'om Weeltend, ·however the class war . rt ur, respec- of '61 feels that they have \broad- tively. ened this concept in bringing ... the first vocal group to appear on campus-a group whose style cannot fail to appeal to ... all no matter how familiar ... with the esoterics of modern jazz.\ Will Exceed Mminmm Kirchgasser, who will take over the duties of President at the ne:x:t meeting on May 17th, is President of Beta Theta Pi, is on the Student Council, and was re• cently nominated for the presi- dency •of that body. Hurlbutt, who will assume his positie>n C>f secretary at the next meeting of the IFC, is also a member 6f the Student Council and is now working on the Juniot• Prom. He is the President of Kappa Sigma. Served as Steward \We expect to sell over the three hundred minimum tickets for Saturday night's perform- ance,\ said Gary Gross, chairman of the whole affair, yeste.rday. He went on to add optimistically that ·•the sales mig]Jt even ap- p!'Oach the twelve hundred mark, for the respe>nse so far has been t>xcellent.\ In contrast to the last Arthur, President of Psi Upsi- party weekend, individual tickets Ion, has been Steward of that to the concert will be sold at the house, which includes the treas- door. _ . urer, has been in many sports at The Hi-La's, who constitute the ·Union, and was on several fina.n- lal'!gest expense of the two days, cia! committees in high school. have maintained during the past The President will hold his posi- few years, their position as the tion for one full year; previously number one spot, on most sing- it has ·been one semester. It is ing group popuiarity polls not necessary .for him to be the throughout the country. president of his fraternity while holding office. · AFROTC Presents 1960 Cadet Awards In his parting speech Leo Dunn, incumbert president of the IFC, said he hoped the new officers have as much cooperation as· he has had, especially in the pas- avet·age 'in his fraternity would have his. name engraved on a plaque to be placed on. the wall of the ft•aternity. None of these ideas were presented in the form of motions. Soctal Rules The Air Force R.O.T.C. has sage of deferred rushing, which presented eight cadets from Un- he felt wou:d be of benefit to the i()n College with awards fur out- whole college community. Dunn standing performance in both stated that the fraternities, in Tuesday twenty Union College students protested the military and academic fields. The order to accomplish something Civil Defense -exeroises. They stressed the futility of defense presentation ceremony took place must cooperate. and the \psychologioal expectation\ created by war preparedness. at 4 ;30 P.M., May 2, on Library At th d · f h'' h D n e en o IS speec , u n :By Melvin Epstein Field. and Walter Casey, President of D. · • th • '1 d f · t t t 2 15 W d Receiving the highest honor the IFC during t)le firs£ SE!mester; Urlng e ClVl e ense es a : p. m. on e - conferred upon any R.O.T.C. were presented with. engraved nesday, May 4, twenty Union College students marched on cadet at Union was Cadet Cap- V t ' M · I k · Sch t d · b tain John J. Nagle. This silver gavels from Dean Pollock in the e eran s emorm par In enee a y carrymg anners medal award is given to the name of the IFC. reading, ''Civil Defense is · outstanding oadet in both mili- In other business, it was re- Futile\ \Remember there members of the National Commit- tary and academic fields. ported that only two people ap- will b~ no Survivord\ The tee for a Sane Nuclear Policy The S·ons of the American Revo- pErared at a meeting of the com- f. t d ·t t' t• (commonly known as SANE). lution med!ll was conferred upon mittee to investigate discrimina- groUp 0 S U en'S oge her SANE reveals the conflict of in- Cadet Major Donald T. carlson. tory clauses in fraternity constitu- with Professor James A. terest affecting the Atomic En- This awat'ci. is given to the most tions. This group had ·been Moss of the seciology de- ergy Coi_Dmission o.n testing and outstanding senior cadet planning formed at the request of the Stu- partment declined to obey fS;ll?ut 1ssues whtle also pro- to. enter flight training. Cadet dent Council. · 1· d. t 1 th VIdmg support for governmental Th t h f th · f po ICe or. ers 0 eave . e efforts to secure agreement on Captain A. Shad received a. gold e l'OP Y or e winner 0 ] d th d f MedalHonorAward,.by the Armed the Fraternity Singing Contest part Ul'lllg e e ense ex- nuclear testing and arms control Forces Communications and Elec- , was presented and the members · ercise. Although there &re measures. ti·onics ASsociation for military · were told that this two foot high laws providing penalties for Urged Disarmlalilent and academic excellence. award would be presented an-, n<»t following orders during The demo~str~tor~ stoo~ in The Reserve Officers Associa- ~ually, the house wil:~n.i~g it ta;~,. a civil defense test the police the park dtstrtb~tmg mm;eo- tion Awal'd to the outstanding so- mg complete responsibility for 1t. d. 'd · t t t graphed sheets urg1ng lmmedmte phomore cadet was given to Cadet Charles Evans of the Scholar-. 1 no at ei)lp enforcement. disarmament and a firm peace A/1C Bruce w. Schmildlin. This ship Committee !'ecommended sev- P!·ofessor :Moss stated that the effort. Police Captain Frank award is given by the Schenectady era1 reforms, among ·them; a campaign was based on 2 major Barret, informed the group that Cha:Pter ROA. mi~imun:i ple?ginl? index of 1.8, points. 1) \State wide civil de- they must \take cover\ while the C&det T/Sgt. Jerry L. Thurston se>ctal probation for any house fense air-raid drllls create the n- civH defe!lse exercise was in pro- received the Professor of Air Sci- with an average below 2.0, and a lusion of safety·when in actuality gress. Later Barrett te>ld that he ence Award for being the compi!t~:tion. of fraternity indexes one medium sized H-bomb would decided to \tolerate the demon- standing junior cadet. The at ad~mterm~s. Other sugges-. annihilate tl~e entire trl.-city pop- stration because he didn~t wish to ert Patterson Squadron of the tions made were that the house· ul.ation. 2) The s.tatewide de• create student martyrs. Arnold Air Society (UNION Col- presidents, big brothers, aQ.d :tense air-raid creates a psycho- The idea of a demonstration lege Sq,uadton) !!.warded to Cadet rulumni, should push schO'Iastic logical expectation for atomic was first conceived l;>y John Bar- Arthur F. Grand the honor c.f out\ achievement, especially among war, and preparation for· it mack, Eli' Enzer, Dick Fisher, standing freshman cadet. · the freshmen; possibly a mane- · destroys the movement for peace. and Edward Lewis. Enzer is the The Ohicago Tt-i:bune Gold tary Teward would be ,given for Remember, there will be no sur- Elditqr of the Garnet and Fisher Medal Award was given to Cadet the highest average in the house; vi.vors.\ ProfE)ssor Moss and sev-is president of the Campus Reli,. T./Sgt. John D~ Wolfe, Jr. al'ld the senior with the highest era! other demonstrators are gious Council, Other Awards Named Luncheon Honors Henry Schaffer

2 ~ow, 01 C!Lnutnr 6 1-: birunta 0 (j ~,f- L ~,. IV£CT;..01 Published Fridays dut·ing the Eliltoria('Office, Washburn Hall, school year by the Stude.nt Body Union College, Publlcatlon Of· of Union College; S•·henectadY, fice The Gazette Preas, 334 !\f. Y. National Adn,rtislllg Tiel'- Staie St. Entered in the _.Sche- resentntiva: :-:ntiouui· Advmtis· neetaJy Post Offi~e as· Second ing Service, In<\. C•lllege l'ub- L'ia>s ~!ail ~latter, sul>scrlpuon lis hers Heprt•srntati ve, 4::!0 Mad- lOc a roi'Y ; $3 a year dell·vered !son Ave., N. Y. c. a·nywhare in the United States. It is the polic·y of l 'nion Coll'ege, as Dr. Carter David- son stated at noon assembly last Tuesday, to treat under- \ raduates in the ,;ame manner a::> adults. As laudable as this aim is certain areas ling;er on where the Union stu- dent is tre~{ted as if he '';e1·e still a high school junior. One slll:h area is off-ca.mpus housing. In order to prese_r~e the \residential character of L'nion College\ the administra- tion has Hlways m~lintained a policy of n~aking; it difficult to live off campus. l\ ext year, the :policy Will be. much stricter l.Jecause students' parents ~nil have to Sign .an affidavit of finam ial need in order. for th_e s~uden~ to live off campus. It is presumed tha~ thts i:l;PPl~catwn Will be of the same form as the scilolarslup applicatiOn. The off-eatn)'JUS regulations which are already strict, ~how promi~e of he-coming progressively more v.indictive as is ciearlv seen in the al'tion which the college took two weeks ago to enfo1·ce the present rules. That the college -----~--------------~----- saw fit to hire an outside agency. to investigate the signed s· . ·t· u· .d.ent Art· Exh;b.;t affidavits of off-campus student residents, is evidence of 11 ., a trend tnward evl\n stricter enforcement. illain taining· the \residential character of Union Col- lege\ ma:v have been n valuable aim in 179.1, hut in the modern world, in,.titutions of l 1 nion's calibre are often validly criticised as ueing \i\·ory towers\ of abstract thought. .-\ striet policy with regard to off-campus living, nnh· increases the- colleg·e's tenctenq toward such ivory tm\·er muclctle-head edness. \\'e thus mge the arlministration to dmft a new, and more liberal policy toward off-campus living, which would both fulfill the college's policy or treating students as arlults and emplwdze l 'nion's role f<.;r 1960 which is aimed at placing the col1egP in a less narrow, t1·adition-bound \\·orld. The Annual Student .Art Ex- truly developed both his courses hibit now to be seen in the Old and his students. Nowack, as Chapel gallery has a profound evidenced by the quality, quan- signiflcance beyond its aesthetic t!l:y and selection of the Student accomplishments. In 1957 Mr. Show, ha,s not insisted upon his Wayne Nowack took over the art own personal mark in h.is stu- teaching post left vacant 'by dent's work. Bruce Gregory. At that time S(}me individual works in the there \Yere only _six; students en- exhibit deserve especial mention. rol~ed m the pamtmg course at Roger Semerad's group of paint- Umon College. ings display an unusual control Some of the members of that of different and varied te~hniques original group of six are still in in many medium. Friday. May 6. 1960 A Cinema Review I van the Terrible By Peter Lefeourt With operatic splendor, the Russian director, Sergei Eisen- stein, has filmed the epic o.f the greatest of all czars, Ivan the Terrible. Medieval Russia, with all it& ornate beauty and t•ituali's- tic magnificence, comes vividly to life in the Russian fHm,. Ivan the Terrible, currently playing at The Scotia Art Theater. Nikolai Cherassov stars in the role of IvaH IV-the great six- teenth century Russian ·inonarch. Faced with the Herculean task of unifying the .disordered and the faction-ridden Russian land against a host of foreign enemies and a group of disloyal Russian ·lords, Ivan searches desperately for a group of loyal comrades. At every turn he confronts treas- on and sedition. At the end of this opposition is the Boyarina, EJ;ronisia, a sinister and wicked woman who wants the crown for her effeminate son Vladimir. Efronjsia i!UCceeds in turning the once-faithful Kurbsky against the. czar; then, as the f.itlal blow, she poisons the beautiful and be~ loved czarina, the legendary An- astasia. Ivan Makes Comeback As Part I ends (the picture is in two parts, filmed ·separately), Ivan is \eyeless in Alexandr.ov,\ self-exiled and disgusted ·by his people's infidelity. Part II tells the story of his return to power and his great conquests as the leader of the Russians. He seeks the friendship of Ph,ilip, Metro- politan of Moscow, out of a sense of overbearing loneliness, but is brutally repulsed. However, he receives the gratHude and vows of loyalty from Malyuta, leader of the Optichinks, the new feudal aristocracy whose lanc\s Ivan had confiscated from the recalcitrant boyars. Then begins the plot to murder Ivan, instigated by his aunt, Efron.isia. Ivan moves qutckly to ovErcome this .treachery: tile assa,ssin is apprehended and· Efron.isi.a put to death. .As the list o:f victims is tolled off, the triumphant Ivan is left m()re sol- itary than ever. The .pathos of Ivan's p\lg-ht, en- gendered by a. sense uf fnspired purpose and' tz:agic loneliness, is acted in 'briU~ant (and quite Ham- let-like) style by Ch,erkassl)ov, He rluxua.tes between moods ()f hig-h enthtisill;sm and broodin.g melan- cho.Jy - frequentiy bringing to mind the image of Shakespeare's immortal Prince. With his ghast- ly pallor, troubled eye!S and strang-e detachment, Ivan is truly a .great character. Dullness. M.a,tches Movement However brilliant and enter- taining the film Is in some mo- ments. It is equally dull and slow- moving in others. Much of the pomp of the Russian Orthodox Church ceremony is shown in long and boring film sequences which ·c<tnfuse and exhaust tbe viewer. However, the solemn chantirtg and skillful orchestra- tion C thE music is suppll«;!d ~Y the n()oi:ed Russian composer, Ser- gei Pr-oll:.ofiev) is quite 'beautiful in parts- and gives the production an epical and gradlose quality. As p.art of the cultural exe:hange between the U.'S. and Russia- though it is doubtful that Ivan The Terrible will receive the same respo!U3e from Americans that My F~lr Lady is getting. froin Russian· audiences-Mr. Krush- chev can point to the legaey of Ivan with a facetious snicker and announce the virtue of the prvle- tarian humility. The subtlety of the message is astounding and I am sure that Mr. K. is cognizant of the tremendous value of the film. Now that's what I call progress! Segregation Analyzed Mr. Nowack's pai.nting co~rses, Daniel Grenning has proven namely John Wahhg and Ell En- himself to be an excellent drafts- zer,. both of whom are graduating man and his color shows mueh on May 29. Under the guidance pro~ise. However he does have of Nowack, these two, as a repre- some technical difficulties to over- sentative example, have been en- come. His attributes certainly coura~ed to develop al~ng what- outweigh any drawbacks. ever hnes seemed most Important Dixie Bergtnan'.s landscapes are· q ............................. , ......... a ....................... ~,, ................... , ......... ~ to them as individuals. excellent \examples of special us- A New Perspective? The present student show evi- age. Louis Brown's \Trees\ also dences the fact each has gone his contain this special perspective. own way-Wahlig towards repre- The series of paintings by Eli aentationalism, Enzer towards to- Enzer intrigue the viewer through tal non-objectivj,ty. And the over the development o.f new media, forty students now participating such as powdered colors, enamel, in Norwak's three painting courses oils and large forms; His titles show no less of a diversification. are also interesting, containing The exhibit has works which fall such as, Legend of Danae, and into the categories of cubism, ex- Apartheid. (From the Harvard Crims(m) To the Editors of the Crimson: I have just returned from a con- ference on the Southern sit-in movement sponsored by NSA in \\'ashingion and attended by many sturlents who arP parlicipating in the sit-ins. It is my feeling that we have greatly misunderstood this mov<'ment in the North and that a s~rious reel'aluntion is nfl'cflss:;ary. The thing that imprl'sseu me most about the movement \\\as the lack of ·bitterness among the Negro participants. Most of the students have an optimistic and cheerful spirit; th~re is relatively little resentment towat·d the South and certainly nooe toward the country as a whole. The move- mPnt is composed not simply of the radical fringe of the student body but rather the overwhelm- ing majority of the Southern Negro students. These students are not interested in radically overthrowing the social .structure of the South. They ar-e not plan- ning to isolate themselves in a life-long radical movement They have no illusions about the South and they have no intention of creating a structure in which nc>ither the white or the Negro can live in peace. They- '''ant to be nhlP to fit badt into the society once the changes are :made_ The tenor of the 117'hole move- ment is set by an emphasis on non-violence. This &'lpect of the mov<>ment was not once question- ed by any of the deleg-ates at the conference. For a fe-w, non-vio- lence was a matter of strategy, hut for the vast majDrity of the Southern Negro degelatcs, it was a relig-ious principle. Y!ore impor- tant, the emphasis upon religi(m was especially noticea.ble among the non-professional leadership- those who hold office.s in the stu- d,·nt organizations on· the South- ern ca:mpuses and wit o lead the student bodies from which the movement gets its ma.ss support. The religious principles of these IPaders emphasiz<'s Hte doctrine of ·Christian love find urges the participants not to hate the South- <'rn Whites, not even those who threaten violence. These prin- ciples are re-empha.qized every Sunday in the chapel~ on South- Prn campuses by preachers who at·e themselves part of the move- ment. These characteristics of the sit- ins distinguish them in every way from a radical movement. If there is going to be civil rights agitation among Southern Negroes-and, after attending this conference, I can assure you that t·here IS'-I cannot imagine a healthier or more rational kind. It is true that these .people are strong and in- sistent; they are not playing gamPs. But those who think that this movement is radical ought to ask the Algerian colon or the Ti- betan Communist to characterize it. There Is only one reason to advocate more moderation, and that is the desire to see segrega- tion continue; this is not what the so-called moderates p~·ofess to believe. While the non-radical character of the sit-in movement is main- tained to ~ large extent by the religious affiliation, I think that it is also partially due to the re- sponse in the Not-th. The sympa- thetic piCketing of Northern stores, whatever its economic value, has prevented the Southern Negro from feeling that he is cut off from the society as a whole. At the same time. the provision of funds by Northern students has provided a kind of security for pressionism, surrealism, realism, Notable for sheet volume of American Regionalism, Dadaism wall space consumed alone, En- and abstract-expressionism. In zer's art shows great promise. fact, the painting by Lewis Brown Enzer has consistently denied entitled \Trees\ is a representa- claims that he uses paint rollers tion of the avant garde move- to produce his unusual art. ment in young American art, viz.. Robert Galvin's dadaistic pic- it is an abstract return to a kind tures are relieving in their un- of naturalism. preteJ:!tious and amusing sense. That such an impressive variety It is encouraging to see works of expression in art could be ac- such as his because of this ap- complished at Union is important proach. itself, but it is particularly heart- Eric Teicholz's works are ex- ening to realize that all this crea- cellent in their simplicity and tivity has occurred under the honesty, reminiscent of Mattisse. careful eye of one professor who Rounding out the exhibit are has, in his three years at Union the sculptures of Arlin Ginsberg. the southern participants; so 1ong Do UTe nTan t UTomen On Campus.? as the participants know that they ,, ' rr ~ rr • ;viii be able to pay their fines if \Should Union go Co-Ed?\ course they might have forgotten they are arrested <and are free to Th\ t\ th • how to do this, ·but a good coach make the C hoice as to whether to IS ques IOn WaS e mam f l should be able to straighten this serve or not>, that they will have topic 0 discussion at ast out ... \with the new cheerlead- funds for theil· defense if they are Tuesday's Chapel presented ers and a radical change in the at·rested, and that they will be this year's H.E.L.P. ex- shape of the team; new ways ahle to attain Northern scholar- change students. The an- could be opened for the Dutch- ships if they are expelled from men.\ college, the movement will not de- nual takeoff on their impres- . f U · t k th f A N orweglan, Lans Sund, wlop the sense of desperation SlOTIS o n10n oo e orm that has characterized some of of a radio broadcast of a Stu- pointed out that \A new man will appear on campus-the smooth the African a~ti-c?ionial move- dent Council meeting. student-no longer the half- ments. The sttuabon has pro- .. . ., . 1 1 · th grcssed far enough and the Negro The mot10n suggested that m shaven faces, the soppy evrs, e students have developed such a order to create a more balanced dirty sneakers, and the blood-shot detei·mination, however, that they college; we ,sho_uld. became 3; ~o- eyes behind dark glasses.\ . w'II not sto even if these funds educational mstitutwn. In addtbon it was noted that there would a:e cut ofl. It is therefore not to .academic benefits ~eriv.ed fr~m be no problem with admissions really the movemnet itself which th1s, they n~ted th?-t. rt J?Ight 1m- since the pre~ent student body N th . tion S\\POrts but prove athletic parbcrpabon. Sulco would surely participate whole- or ei n ac .....,. ' Schalm from Holland commented heartediy in recruiting well-hal- rather the character of that move- that a well-proportioned quarter- anced, qualified Union Co-eds. m£>nt back might be a·ble to attract the They ended their skit with the Thus the North does have an essential role to play in the sit-in movement. It must continue to attention of the opposing squad question \Union College, mother long enough for a member of our of Fraternities or father of Sor- team to score. He added, \Of oritles?\ encourage the Southern Negroes ...... -- ... ~ ............. .ID. .......... ~ ............... A .... ~ ...................... .-. ... oa ... .-. ..... ..., through sympathetic picketing : t and through fund drives. More t H • L I I important, however, these actions = I• 0 5 ~ must have broader support within • · J Northern student bodies. The ma- C b 1 ~ jority of the sit-in participants are : num er one voca group • not especially sympathetic to the ~ t very liberal groups from which ~ in the country t most of the Harvard support has c t come from up to now; they do • at UNION COLLEGE. ~ not value this encouragement so : · t much as. the encouragement of the t MEMORIAL CHAPEl • more moderate elements of the • · . ~ campus, especially that of rell- : t gious groups. These moderate a M 7 1 960 8 30 p 'M : groups are making a great mis- i ay · 1 - : · • , 1 take in avoiding participation in J the Northern symJ}athy movement .t because they think it is \too rad- Don't miss the BIGGEST Event • ical,\ and if they do not change U C ·1·1 t their policy they are a,pt to find at . nion 0 ege since • themselves with a movement that t really does meet their expecta- Eliphalet Nott's lnaugura.tion t tions. 1 - TICKETS MAY BE PURCHASED AT THE DOOR - t M.ichael· J. Plor.e '62 ~--•••••••lll!••••••••••••••w••••••••••w•••••••••..,,..' DEMONSTRATIONS ARRANGED For All W orthwhi~ Causes • POLITICAL • SOOAL • RELIGIOUS Eli Enson Bail Bond Furn-ished 20o/o Discount for Un;i~n Students •. . - - . - - - - - - - - - - - - ;n IIIII I I 11.1111111111 I IIIII ~II II 1111111111111111111111 I •n .Ill alii 1111111n1111111111 Blll .. lllrlll~ S C 0 T I A THEATRE NOW thru WED. ART 2 RUSSIAN FILMS THREE EXCITING HOURS OF BRILLIANT FILM ART Shown together for the first time P.IIR'I' I and PJIIH' D SERGEI EISENSTEIN'S ImFAllliil \be WlRl'llmlBlU<e \A CINEMATIC EVENT\ -Herald Tl'lbune ~----i:iJil~-~~~----1 i RESTAURANT I La1 BOUNTY'S LAUNDERETTE I I 1 Specializing in 1 ':• t l.fallan-American Food t I I 25 BARRETI ST. : Schenectady Dl 6-9744 1 • I I 0% Discount to Union Men I linioy Our I Sizzling Steaks and Chops I ·----------------------t Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. Wasllers-25c for 10 lb. Dryers- I Oc for 40 lb~ ONE 'B.LO'CK WEST O'F CA'MPU'S Cor. Park Pl. and South Ave. 0 pen 24 hours a day 7 days a week A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLA US 'RESTAURANT . Since 1895 - Corner 266 State .and Erie Blvd. ~ Large parties occommC)dated in our · RATHSKELLER § a For reservafions phone FR 4-8917 ~ llf llllllllllli Ill I I illllllllllllll I Ill I •1111 I I U II U 1111111. iiiUiaiSIJ8IIB 11111111111111111111.11:: TheG E~ W:estei·n is on the· T.oc(ay; nc are tryinl economic differeht uni'On 1H: ·we~tern : two camp, Sip.ce V Eu;rope :h buiither pus sjleed. tioned t)le industrieso shortages misery we By.1951171 ,passed hE .duction lb was aga;ir Far Iii~ Henri Sp man saw economic pean coo: sup,plemer Euro:peaJ+ new orga , In the ea Coal and begun. :E of \integ: tries, Fvil.: many, B.el ember.g. deci\easei Ol'ganizati Comn The mb Euratom, Economic the princ pean l.ntE ago, the i union wa: 14 inner sb mon Mar this orga1 ers (exc member< for the \·: Though nies the · bershj.p is the~ last 1 port her that it v for Brita Britain h~ with her tions. Vii not think Market u pies held are chan.§ Britain i: that rejec Austria 1: tions that and, Swi1 of comp much th~ proposes. European desira'bili· tion,, ·but are divid It is oJ to realize has alwa:;j foreign p is almost the three Mar The 'Ot~ tries hav economic Common of ·SWitZE the \!nne dinavian 52% of A fot• Co.mn is no WUl are irate icy_ But wl: ket polio: is a oust• .are .not arnong ' adjusting to ·pre.Ser: no.ri-mem 'is the b< man go• prel:eren< in Rome out to tb in Paris. themselv different economic Two y to .the C in the \1 tlie forn: Trade Britain, tries, A:. Pol,'tugal sociation '- teri:ng E and plec goal. T not crea tier t<o ' Common .tax imp< left to dividual The 1 the fori!:: tMt of· en\ wer

6. 1960 qutckly th.e and· .As th.e off, th.e sol- \lg-ht, en- !D.spired lin ess,. is ite Ham- He of b,ig-h melan- to espeare's gha:st- and Is truly enter- mo- slow- of the in tbe solemn ~y Ser- eduction Ivan same that froln Krush- of and prole- of g and I of the I call ........ 1 - - - - - - - - - •. - - - - - - - - - . - - .. - - ........... r; lb. lb~ Ave. § ~ The Great Schism EuYvpean Split Develops Fearless Freshmen Fight Fleischman Food Fiasco • By Edw~<l Skloot W:estei·n Etq:·ope, economically,. selves against this form of selec- is o;n the verge of ·li. great schism. tion •by the \inner six;'' Who can T,oda,y; not oti.e, ·but two groups . Jeny too, the bargaining force of are trying to forge methods of . seven united countries, when it economic -Integration. Each has : cqmes to ·a, showdown? different sta:ildards o.f how this upi'Qn Shopld be a,pproached.\ . The showaown may have ar- ·western Euro:pe is dhrid'ing into rived. On July 1, o.f this year, the Common Market countries two carnps: . ·plan to lower their .internal ta.riffs. Sip.ce World War II ·Western for a second time, ·by 10%. · In Eu;rope has re•vitalized and re- accordance, the me1nbers of the buiit her •ecollo:iny with miracuh E.F.T . .A. des.ignated the same date pus sjleed. It need hardly be men-. for their firE;t tariff cut of ·20%. tioned t)le ·effect wal' had on her This equilibrium was ,-;;cheduled i~dustrieso and people; rubble, to give the E.F.T.A. more time sh~>rtages o:t; all goods, disease and to request and bargain. for, a dif- .. misery were ram,pant through~>ut .. ferent kind of European unificaw By. 1951 Western Europe •had sur- tion. Just last month, the ·\inner ,passed her record pre-war pro~ si)!:\ expressed plans to accelerate · .duction lh ~lm:ost every field·. She· their tariff reduction program. was again on !Ier feet. Instead of a 10% cut on July 1, Far sighted men like Paul they decided on a 2~% r.eduction; Henri Spaa:l!. and Robert Schu- essentially speeding up tl).eir pro- man saw the dear advantage to. gram by at least 18 months. · economic ·g-rowth through :muro- pean coo:peration. In order to E.F.T .A. ~lernbers Enraged supplement tlie ·Organi;!:ation for The members -of the E.F.T ..A. Europea~ Econ,omic Cooperation were enraged upon' learning of new orgaiJizations were created. this acceleration. Britain By St<eve Dicl;;erlman . In the eai.·ly 1950's the European that if this plan is affected, an \The11e has-been enoug-h criticism of the food at West Coal and Steel Community was even g1·eater split will occur, She College cafeteria to warrant investigation,\ stated Dean 0. begun. Here· was the beginning makes it clear that if this wider Edward Pollack Wednesday afternoon a few hours before of ·\integ-regation\· for six co.un- split materializes, it is ·bound to e h d d F ·h b ~ ------------ tries, Fvani.l'e, Italy, Western Ger- lead to a politicaLand even mili- on - un re res men e- ~ many, BelgiUIU, Holland and \Lux- tary decision of Western Europe. g•an a calm and orderly pro-: In true Union fashion, they didn't ember-g. 'The O.;¢.E.C. began to Observe too, the plight of coun- cession to Hale House where Sl\pport a different view, Some decrease in importance a,s the new tries not members of either President Davidson was din- were plain hungry, others didn't organization asserted itself. ganization. Greece and Turkey, ing and then to Memorial know about the protest, still oth- geographically and economically · ers didn't care, and quite a few Common Ma-rket Created vulnerruble, will find the greatest Chapel in protest of the poor were plain confused. (\No com- The mi·dc1950's saw the rise of, difficulty in. keeping their econo- food and service received ment!\) Euratom, and the European mies stable. . these past months. One innocuoUs member stated Economic Community; created on What then can we look forward. Dean Pollock encouraged the \I don't like the food. And who the principal of fostering Euro- to in Western Europe? This ob- students to demonstrate according the -- do you think you are.\ pean integration. A few years server can visualize the possibili- h A few professors who were ques- to their rights so lohg as t e ago, the idea of greater economic ties of a greater economic split. demonstration was well organized tioned seemed 1·ather happy that union was put forth by the above The eleven non-member countr.les and non-destructive. He further the students were really alive. \inner six\ countries. The Com- of Western Europe will under- stated that at an administration Some felt, though, that the pro- man Marlret was created. But standably, sell less to the \inner meeting Tuesday morning the test, in the march form, didn't this organization, and all the oth- six.\ But note also, the obvious problem of dissatisfaction with really serve any purpose outside ers (excluding the seventeen retaliatory move that may show of. defying the laws of Minerva. West College food and service was member O.E.E:C.) have ·been only itself. To keep a balance of trade discussed and that he and Vice The workers in the cafe itself for the \inner- si:x.\ it is conceivable that the coun- President Milham were appointed had no comment. It was some- Though. the -<Jonomon Mar]tet de· tries of t:he E.F.T.A. will elevate to investigate the matter. It was what evident, however, that they nies the chaz:-ge that her mem- their own . external -tariffs indi- also decided that in the future weren't particlilarly happy with · ber~hj.p is closed, her record over vidually, so as to make the en- members of the faculty and ad- the circumstances of the even- the last ten y-ears does not sup- trance of \inner six\ prod ministration would occasionally ing. . port her clenicaJ. It is obvious into their countries more diffi- dine at West College with the Although the true value of the that it would be most difficult cult. This is an ever increasing students so that they might be demonstration was repeatedly for Britain to ask membership. spiral · · · l!-Ild a spiral that can familiar with the conditions of· questioned by faculty, adminis- Britain has st~:ong economic bond-s. and will only lead to trouble. the meals and service. , tration, and students alike, and with hel' Commonwealth of Na- Mter more than two years of the protest's accomplishments tions. What is more, she would discussion, on all different levels ;Morris.1>n is Organizer may never be available for print, not think of joining the Common and phases, talks on the !'evolving Freshman Class President, Law- it should be realized that the Market until many of the princi- of this impending problem were ton Morrison, who organized and march broke n() campus dictums, ples held by the Common Market abandoned; principally because of lead the protest and demonstr-a- provided a pleasant diversion, if are changed, or at least modified. lack of good will and mutual tion, stated that he hop.ed the fur- only minor, from the conserva- Britain is not the only country trust. It appears that these tallts mal complaint sent to each mem- tism on CI!.IllPUS, anc;l gave a good that rejects the Common Marltet; were about to reach some agree- ber of the administration and the demonstration of the leadership Austria has international obliga- ment, at least in principle. It is demonstration, conducted intelli- available in the class of '63. This tions that force her to be excluded imperative that these talks be gently and orderly, wo-uld result last may be measured by the de- and, Switzerland with her policy resumed. It is imperative that in the alleviation of the often gree of annoyance of several so- of complete neutrality, rejects an organization empracing all the unpleasant and inefficient condi- phomores. much that the Common Market seventeen eountries be created; tions of service and often poor In case anyone has, wondered proposes. T()day, all Western to manage, control, supervise and quality and presentation of the they were serving chicken a' la European countz:-ies recognize tb.e aid in the true economic union food. king in West 06llege. desirability of economic unifica- of Western Europe. Marching in ·the staid, stodgy, tion,, 'but instead of uniting, -they serene manner of Union tradition, are dividing. \I wish he would have seen the the freshmen under questioning It is of the utmost importance letter I received from Effie Stone revealed different reasons for to realize that the flow of trade, of Roclt S Creelr: who wrote 'from thejr being on the excursion. \The has always influenced defense and here on out,. I donrt know what class voted to d'O this. It's my foreign poli-cy in the long run. It to do.' He should watch Curtis duty to upholq their decision,\ is almost impossible to separate Rick:;; who wr.ote 'I've just come said President Morrison. \They the three. to the point where I just can't don't give us enough food. No help anybody.' seconds for athletes, even if we Marlret Loosens Tariff \There is no substitute for such try to pay for it,\ said another. The 'Other eleven O.E.E.C. coun- experience-for walking into a \It's a nice day out.''- said a third. tries have always had a strong ·house where !rids are sitting \We want better food. 'l;'hree economic association with the around, pole, dirty, and huugry, cheers for President Davidson. Common .Mar-ket. In 1958, 57% jmable t.o go to. school as they Hip, hip, hooray (twice more),\ of -Switzerland's exports went to· ·don't have soap with which to said the class. the \innei· six:.,\ .35% of the Sean- ·wash, unable to .eat because there, One freshman mounted the dinavian countries' exports and. is nothing in the kitchen ibut two steps of Memorial Chapel and 52% of Austria's were C(esignated p'Ounds of potatoes and that has proudly proclaimed that he had fot• Co.mmon Market countries. It been saved for the next dt>¥. eaten no .meals in the Cafeteria is no wunder that these coUI1tries \Material assistance? Imma- for this quarter. Thereupon, he are irate a.t Common Market pol- terial assistance might be a bet- tried to btirn his extra meal icy. ter description.\ tickets.. ·(Unsaid: He;s his fra- But what .Js the Common Mar- \But in Washington. \'Tis the ternities steward.) ket policy? 'I'he Common Market best of all possible worlds.\ There were several frooh who is a cust<>ms union. That is, they did eat in the dining room. .are not only loosening tariffs A'Pplicatio..ms for the 1961-62 Ful- arnong members, but are also· bright Awards are now available adjusting their external tariffs, in the office of :Professor Rob- to present one s·olid tariff wall to erls in the Language bWldJng.· non-mem.bel' countries. This then The schol.w-ship cover travel, tui- 1s the bone of contention. Ger- tion, rbooks and maintenance for man goods are .bound to talte the aoodeinic year, Over 30 dif- prel:erence over Austrian goods ferent countries are participatilig in Rome; British autos will lose \in the program. When l11 New York VisiJ(!lq4Jp 14 E. 44th St. _. New York 17, N.Y. MUrray Hill 7-0850 Prof. Johnson To Conduct Vesper At the vespe:r service Sunday at seven, Professor Norman John- son of the DeJ)artment of Relig- ion ~ll speak on the topic \Inte- gration in 60 ll. D.\ He intends to develop the theme that . in1:egregation antedated the ti()n of slavery in the early ch.urch, and that the formula of this ea.rly integration can be use- ful in our handling of segrega,- tion today. L. G. BALFOUR 00. C~R·L SO'R'ENSEN BADGES. Jl.INGS- FAVORS .JEWlllL:R.Y LEA.T.IIER GIFl'S STATIONERY - PROGRAMS OLUB riNs - KEYS MEDAI.B - TBJOPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 171 MarShaJISt., Syra.ouae,N;Y. · Fhone G:ranHe IP-1887 ADVERTISEMENT PETE STEIN GLASS LOOKS AT :\!ay we call your atten- tion momentarily to the pic- ture that appears at the bot- tom of this column. For those of you who don't rec- ognize it at a glance, it is the cover of the May 8 issue of LIFE magazine, a publica- tion which on the basis of its 6,700,000 circulation, is per- haps the most successful venture of its kind in this country. Adorning the cover of this week's LIFE is a \lifesized\ picture of a young starlet, American- born Yvette l\limieux, who possesses an elusive claim to the fabulous French heri- tage that has made so many a young starlet into a main- liner. · Blonde Beauty French and Mexican parentage have combined to cre- ate this c1·eature and they have done a masterful job. It is more than worth your trouble to have the below picture turned into a marvelous example of color photography merely by insuring yourself the opportunity of seeing the cover of LIFE. For those who have trouble translating the stark black and white sample shown below into the glorious abundance of beauty that is the LIFE cover in reality, Miss l\limieux' \warmly wistful\ look that she is 'lpplying to the viewer is surrounded by a wealth. of soft, flowing blonde hair which encloses a perfectly smooth tan- ned face. Her eyes are hazel with a distinct tint of green and her lips are gently covered with a light pastel shade of lipstick, which might have been described by motiva- tional resea1·ch as \Passion Coral-light.\ Miss Mimieux' face stands out against a flash of bril- liant light that is broken up by her lovely blondeness and turned into a shimmering combination of gold and white. The effect is that of an angel.guarding the gates of heaven but the response this girl musters in one's breast is hardly religions. LIFE has achieved a peak of magnificence im- possible to be matched by its competitors; a p<>sie to the genius who is responsible. On the Inside For those who can tear themselves away from the cover, the interior of this week's LIFE is typical of e the quality this magazine has achieved throughout the years. We have, for example, another exciting episode in the training of our famous Astronauts, one uf whom, according to the famed \American\ rocket expert, Dr. Wehrner von Braun, may well be traveling aloft in a missile before tlJe year is out. Also included in the cur1·ent issue is another install- ment of the LIFE series on democracy in foreign states, concerning the numerous problems Greece is encountering while attempting to m:;lintain his democratic form of gov- ernment. Particularly notable in this article is a photo- graph of the Acropolis with lights shining on the Parthe- non, taken over the glow of neon lights lighting up the modern Athens, an interesting artistic juxtaposition of the modern world on its classical foundation. out t'O their Ger\'ilan counterparts in Paris. The .. cases will repeat r------CIII·-•III!••·-·--~·-·---------·-1!11••·•···-----·-·-·--·~···--·-·-------···' - ~~~~re~;:,n~g!i:;!u~~e\~i~ i' M M ! The Sollltion The LIFE solution to the school dropout p i• o b l e m, promised in last week's issue, has turned out to be highly visual, with very few words and numerous pic- tures of happy, rehabilitated souls who have been helped under a Detroit plan to solve this pressing problem in American education. Per- haps more of the facts will be forthcoming in future articles. economic sore-sj>ot. : . . . . e e t . e a t : Two y-ea:vs agQ, the challenger 1 I to the Common Market appeared I 1 in the \ring ()f Europe.\ It took : t h M t z· ng h 0 use : tlie form of the European :J:i'ree I e e e . , I Tra:de Association (E.F.T.A.). .1- · . . .. · I · I I Britain, the Scandinavia:n coun- ·I · tries, A.usblla, Switzerland and : COCktails Portugal agreed to form this as- sociation; on theprinciple of fof!• :1 charcoal broiled steaks '- tering European Economic unity,. and pledging themselves to this ·:.. roast beef goal. The E.F.T.A. however, did not create a common tariff ·bar- 1 h• k tier t'O non-rnernl;Jers, as did the : C lC e-n Common ]Mtl.rket. The r~ght to .. :. f•l s.'h ,tax imports of non-mell;lberl? was left to the judgment of the in- 1 divid'Ual aolin try. · 1 I I I I I I I I th!~~~~~!o~n~~r~~tE~;~~ ~:! Hotel Van Curler thll.t of de:filn$e. . The \o.uter sev- 1 1 en·, wer-e· for-c~d. to ··protect them- :I••••••••••III!••I!R•••••••••••••~·· .. •••••••••••••••\\•·•••••••••~•••••~••••••~ Glose with a good taste in your mouth-flip it back to the cover and contemplate. Here's LIFE, May 9, 1960.

4 Fr!day, May 6, 1'960· Letters To The Editor ; Chronic Unemployment Earn While y o~u Learn To the Editor of Concordiensis: <$>--------~------ Fc;>r outstanding high school:!>·-------~-~----~ numerous oversights committed p •t M t· h E· d graduates qualified for college . . . The coming of warmer weather by its organizers. Even i·f the rosp. ert y. . . y.·· : . xp· . ose . . but having to face taking a job of Ed~catlOnal <?oun~ehng, Ge~rge appears to have loosened up the covera!!e of the event was inac-. this coming yeat· on account of Washmgton Umverstty, WasJ.ung~ stolid muscles of several members - 1 1 f ton D C cu·rate, such shortcomings :in By Donald C, MaelJonald act of unc1s, an interesting pro- ' . ' . · In the Union student body and the news coverage should be expected gram combining empl<;>ymen.t a,nd: T~1s l:S r:o ,snap progra:m. ~t college has suddenly found itself and anticipated for by not allow- At a recent press conference, sistance diet for the unemployed college has just been announced offers genume challenges. But 1t immersed in a wave of protests, ing any ·gross mistakes in judg- President Eisenhower was asked Many factors contribute .to the in Washington, D. C. . can prove int~7esting and inay against. and demonsttations for, ment to occur. to enumerate what steps ·the ad- chronic poverty in West Vit•ginia. Qeorge Washin:gton University make all ~h~ difference to sozn;e causes ranging from civil defense ·ministration would take to aid T.he state has become a \distress- and four departments of the of the ~uall~l~d· young people. who to cafeterias. The most notabie Thus what might well: ·have the starving children of West Vir-. ed labor area.\ The coal industry United States Government have·· othe:w'lse might not see tl1eir way demonstratio·r1 was. of course,· been. with some serious pl'anning, ginia. He replied that he wa.s not can no longer compete. with na. t- worked out a c;!Ooperative \earn- · t? lqghel\ educatio.n. ~9 ~atter last Tue:;day's refusal to comply a most influential demonstration familiar with the situation but while-you•lea:tn\ scheme, Those ·\'.hat government JOb the student w-ith the civil defE>nsP ddU held· for an admirable cause, became . would look into it as soon as he ural' gas, many railroad jobs have : accept13d attend the University ·hold~, .any university Program of h instead a shoddy affair that prov~ been rendere<;l unnecessary by the \'h!'le hold!'ng a part·-.t!'me· pos· 1 ·.·- , stud1es .m .. ay be .follow.ed. for a de- in Schenectady and various ot er got a chance. diesel; tel!:tiies have suffered by \ H h h 1 communities throughout the coun- t!U -nothing. the lQtrodt!-ction of synthetics tion (typist, stenographer, student gr?e· . lg sc 00 • stud;nts ready try. If the organizel's. of t:his demon- Unfortunately, the :situation In hi h h 1 d d trainee) in one of these four ag- thiS June c~n g~ ngh~ In. Others· strati on are still interested in the West Virginia is already critical w c ave rep ace. cotton an encies: National Bureau of .Stand-: can get their oUwe skills and th~n .and ·has been so for many months. wool. These and other countless F · · apply while young pl · th That 30 students and one pro- fessoi· were willing to risk arrest, their action being illegal, to de- feat a civil practice they felt ·wt·ong, is representativ.e of the great tradition of civH disobedi- ence and hence certainly com- mendable. It is encouraging to: note that material presented to PVPry freshman at Union College (the mandatory Thoreau essay that is one of the essential works of Freshman English) has actu- ally had an effect, other than the purely academic one, on a signi· ficant number of students. !deals that prompted them to act, industrial changes have cohtribut- ards, ederal Communic:;J,tiori.s. . . • . peo e m e namely a cessation of nuclear ·A hundred thousand workers are ed to the situation, Oommission, Department of the e~rller yea~s of h11?h sc.hool .have testing, an urgent and active at- unemployed already and the situ- Navy, or Department of state. .lime to. ·ga11:1 their sklll$ before tempt to bring about nuclear dis- ation shows no signs of improv- No Simple Solntion By attending the University the graduatwn If they wish· to plan armament, and the encouragement ing. Many of these men have year areund (summer term in- ahead on this way of getting a of a peace-philosophy motivating absolutely no· income, their un- There is no simple solution to eluded) these workers can earn: college education. . this countr-y's future policies,. and employment insurance having ex- . the West Virginia tragedy, but. their degrees In fou; years plus o if these people are willing. to .pired 'long ago. These Ameri- there are some steps that couid one additional slimmer. · John D. Ha,rgreaves, Lecturer · cans, and their families are li¥ing. be of ·considera;ble help to the · Hi t t spend considerably more time state.. Unfo. rtunately the Blll'eau Two Hold tb.e Same .Job m s ory at he University of than the few hours that went on a skimpy diet of dried beans, · Aberdeen Scotland will next year . . th 1 d t lard,, and some other federal sur- of the B~dget l;las neglected to As with some other cooperative· t ch th ' f.. t ' . · Af mto arrangmg · e r emons ra-. talre any of \hem. In 1959, the programs two individuals hold t·h·e ea e Irs course. m rican t . th · ht th' k er'ou Iy plus commodities. It is indeed \ · h!'sto ff d t u · c 1 mn, ey mig m s 1 5 President vetoe.d a co· al resea·rch same job a.nd divide the t·I·m· e be- ry ever 0 ere a mon °- f h \b'l't f rganizing odd, that the Pr.esident of the 1 · •t d b n· o t e possi 1 1 Y o o . bill. The P\'eVI\ous year, he v· etoed tween them a·lte . t• b t . ege, 1 was announce . y r. a local chapter of SANE (Na-·, United States, who gl!,ve us tragic • · ·· ' rna mg · e :ween ·Carter D v··d •. T • , n.. · ' an area. redevelopment bl .ll whi'.ch four and two days per· we· Jr • · a 1 son, :c.n1on s \'LeSI- tl ·onal Committee for a Sane Nu-· accounts of the poverty in Asia, · · e L m d·ent Th B •t• h d · t \11 W . auld have helped West v·I.rE:l'ni·a consecut1've te~s One full al · e 11 ' IS e uca or Wl clear Pollcv) on this campus. Here'. confesses ignorance of the same - · · · \\ ' · · s - com h. · v· \t' As · tant J i consi-derably. This year, a 16- ary covers each job,· and is. di- . e ere as a · IS! mg siS i~ a positive way of influencing. condition in our own nat on. Profes·s r f H' t · · However, although the ·purpose or the demonstration was a wor- thy onP and has had considerable support in other sections of the country, including 700 people who Pol .nt p1·ogram, deal1'ng WI'th a!\d vided accord1'ngl\ o o 1s ory m a one-year their f('llow students, but it would · J • fa· culty exch · b t· th t · The Secretary of Agriculture, to areas of chronic unemployment, · For acceptance in the Public · ange e ween e wo· involve work and perhaps their c schools w· h1'ch also· · 1 D Ezra, Taft Benson, (not a man has been passed in the Senate · · areers Program, as it is called, mvo ves r. ideals are not quite that strong.· given to humanitarian excesses) and as of Wednesday night ap- candidates must have maintained Neal W, Allen, Jr., of the local Peter Steinglass !6() stated callously \it isn't the Gov- proved. by .tl;l.e House. Supporters at least a B-average the last two faculty. refused to comply with civil de- fense orders and remained !n City To the Editors of Cllneordiensis: Hall Parkl in New York City, the It was with mixed emotions Union demonstration 'l'>as far from that I followed Tuesday's down~ successful. town demonstration .by Union If the purpose of the Union Collcc;c ::;tudcnt.s against the state· Clemonstrators was to create con- wide Civil Defense air raid dr\ll. troversy or obtain personal pub- Protest,. and the right to it which lieity, then they were more than at times must be created by the successful. But if they acted, as malc'Ontents, surely is one of the we certainly hope they did, to fur- foundations of American democ- ther the cause of nuclear disann- racy. Protest at Union, ·by how- ament and a positive approach to ever small a group, is a happy peace, then they fell far ~hort of sign that apathy is not really the Paine Gate password. However, their goal. A demonstration with all due respect to the lead- should be a serious attempt to in- ers of the effort (whose friend- fluence public opinion, not a lark ship 1 hope I shall I\etain if this ~~~o~~~;~~i~~ts~·asifto thheav~n;~~ is published) I would take excep- tion to their choice of point of meaning, it should have been attaclc geared toward convincing the moderates in the audience that That agitation for peace at this civil defense was a deterrent to time is necessary and desirable peace and that nuclear warfare I agree. That the Civil Defense must be prcyented at all costs. organization is a fitting take-off point fo1· such agitation seems A demonstration is not a picnic dubious at ,best. outing; it is supposed to influence public opinion and to do so it Tuesday's demonstrators claim- must be organized and well co- · ed that CD drills create a \phy- ordinated. The Union demonstra- chological expectation for atomic lion. however, was a terribly slip- (Continued on Page 6) shod affair, which could not have been the result of more .than a few hours inadequate planning. Certainly someone should have t\ealized before the event that they would be covered by the local newspapers and television and that these media would be the ones to court if they expected to influence more than a handful of sidewalk observers standing in the doorways of stores along State Street. Instead the leaders of the demonstration failed to ap- point a spokesman, forget even to wear jackets and ties to add a touch of re;;pectability. and al· lowed themseh·es to become in- volved in petty arguments with a heckle!\ <which comprised the mAjority of thP TV COVHA~P of thP Pventl ·and in a ridiPulous controversy with President Da- · vidson who. they claimed. had been \grossly unfair\ to their cause. The la.ttcr incident, of· course, was picked up by a watchful r•'porter and included, in detail, in the local press's ac- ceunt of the demonstration. No reasonable citizen reading the account of the demonstration in the Gazette or watching it on \\'RGB-TV would give it any seri- ous consideration because of the Punkin - You'll make the scene with a gift from Mau• rice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay Street. Like they've been swingin' for 3 generations. Har Friday Nite Till Nine WORN IN THE BEST CIRCLES BASS . wee}uns $oo.oo • On city streets, along coun- try lanes - wear Bass Wee- juns. Famous Bass \true moe- casin\ construction makes Weejuns the most popular shoe a-foot! •.• gives you true slipper comfort. Try a pair •.• you'll never be without them. $15.95 :llalt~ 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-6 P.M. Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M. ernment's job to- supply food to of this bill are hoping that recent years of high school 'be recom- !Mr. Hargreaves, who will ·be anyone.\ Mr. Benson advocates publicity about West Virginia. and· mend·ed as being of scholarship acco:m,panied to Schenectady by reliance on private charities to the chance of it damaging Ric'h- caliber, and must attain a mini- his wife and three children is a aid the 177 disaster areas in the ard Nixon's \image\ in an elec- mum score of 600 on each part nativE) of Cc>lne, Lancashire,' Eng- nation. This proposal has been tion year will make it difficult of the Scholastic Aptitude Test. land, and a graduate of 'Man- proven grossly inadequate, The for President Eisenhower to veto 'Df the College Entrance Ex:arnin-. chester Univ(Olrsity, He served as Federal Government was forced the .bill. Another plan, proposed ation Board tests. They must an Infantry officer during World to augment the charities In West by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey also pass the civil se1·vice require• War II and ;r(lturned to Manches- Virginia in order to assure a sub- <Continued on Page 6 ) ments for the government jobs.· ter after the War to earn his Applications are sent to the Office M . .A. degree. DREAMING OF VACATION 'I It's all right to dream of vacations, but it's wise for all juniors to start planning ahead to what you are going to do after graduation. We suggest you consider working for .Public Service Electric and Gas Company in New Jersey. With more than one billion dollars invested in plant, :It is one of the leading utilities in the country. Public Service ranks fourth among the investor-owned operating utility companies providing both electric and gas service in the United States. So start thinking n()w about next year . . . you would be wise to give Public Service serious consideration. SEND FOR THIS TODAY. Write for the informative brochure \Training Ceurses for College Gradu· ates\. Write Public Service, 80 Park Place, Room 2152A, Newark 1, New Jersey for your free copy. \ ..... .,;._,1 PUBliC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS CO., NEWARK 1, N.J. A·i45.·.59 . I Friday, 'I Jur In~ Mid the fiiili in the IJ stand at~ As· mildly e field te3 WedneE .21st mee1 The win against ' season rE A· trlpl Barry wa the Cata both hur vault. H ond plac tile in th T The G winners Marshall shall too with a t< with Chl second p cus Ma1 sweep w: inches, f ning thr and Kirl1 Bob H hlghjum] .feet, ele' up with leaping l ing out fields eve place ti' Hanle's weight s formanc than ha: in the n ( The 01 ance ()f in by mi Jurejevi· Elmars 4:23.5, t inches a I-Ioffmru the mile The o by DavE yard da: onds. C take a start pb of the fi up on quickly, prevent• first pb Withe in the · had to .Tewksb Wayne third. l from hi usual p place s Howard first in The were c ery, wh hurdles took tll the lOW 'rom standm an unu first ti points leading mile r1 his stt was P

4 Letters To The Editor To the Editor of ConeordiPnsis: ·~·· -- - -· ------ Friday, May 6, 1960 Earn While You Learn For ·outstanding high school<;> gr·aduutes qualified fat· college but having to face ta·king- a job of Ed~cationa-1 Counseling, George this coming yea!:' on account of Waslungton University, Washing- lack 0f funds, an interesting .pro- ton, D. C. 'The eon1.in~y of warmet· weather nun:erous o\:ersights comJ?itted appN 3 ,rs ta have loosened up the by 1ts orgamzers. Even 1f. the stolid mus<.'lt!'s of severa'l members coverage of the event w_as ma~­ in the Union student body and the currrte, such shortcommgs m colll' y\ h:t!l ::;uddenlv found itBl'lf news coverage should be expected . g . · and untlc1pat~d for by not allow- muncrs ('d ·111. a wave of prot<'Rts . . . . . lll\ any gross nustakes m JUdg· against .. a.u~ cicmenstr:a~tons for, m~nt to occur. cnus<.\ ran~1.n~ from CIVIl defense to cnfL't<·r·ias. The· must notable clemono<tHUion wa~. of course, last Tueoday's refu,.;al to comply \\'ith the ri'Vil dl'f<'llS<' drill held in Sch<'th·<:tad~· and various other eonHnu n:t ies throughout the coun- Thus what 1uig.ht well have bt'l'll. with some s<·riuus planning, a most inrluential demonstration for an admirable' cnu::>e, becanre instead a \hoddy affair that prov- c'd nothing. gram combining empl'oymcnt and This is no snap program. It At a recent press conference, 1· sistance diet for the unemployed college ha.~ just been announced offers genuine chaHenges. But it President E. Isenhower was asked Many factors contribute to the in Washington, D. c. can prove interesting and may to. e.nume.rate what steps the a~- chronic poverty in West Virginia. George Washmgton University mal{e all the difference to s·ome numstt·at!on w.ould take to S;td The state has become a \distress- and four depal:'tments of the of the qualified young people who the starvmg chtldren of West v~r- ed labor area, The coal industry United States Government have otherwise might not see their way · · H 1· d th t h ··• t · k I t · to higher education. No matter gtma. · e rep 1e a · e was no . can no longer compete with nat- \\:o~· el nu a .~ooperatlve \earn- . familiar with the situation but ural gas, many railroad J'obs have \\ hile-you-learn scheme •. Tho.se what government job the student ld I k · t •t h ac t d tt d th u holds, any univer::>ity program of wou oo m o 1 as soon as e been rendered unnecessary by '·he .. c·e. P e a. en· e .. mversitY. try. That 3() ,; tud<'n t\ and onP pro- ft .... ;:-;ut \\t•lt willin~ to risk arrest, their H.ction being illegal, to do- fl'at a ci·l'il pradkt· they felt wrong, 1:5 Trprp,.;entative of the gn·a.t tla dit wn of eiYil disobedi- l'liCP <U:<l hrnr<' l't'I'tninly eom- llll'n da.hl<>. It is Pncout·aging to n\te that ntatl'l·ial prcs<'ntcd to ,.,.,.t·y flo';hm:tn at l'nion College (the nmntl~rtory ThorC'nU pssay that is onr of the essPntial work~ of Frosh :rna.n Eng-lish l ha\ actu- all~· lmd ~n L'ffect. otht•r than th<· pure!~· acndrmie onP. on a ~igni· fien.nt nu:mbrt• of studPnts. Ho\VL'I'<c'l'. nl thou~h tho• purpose of t hC> dem onstrnt ion was a wot·· thY on<' nnrl hn~ hrul eonsidet'able support in other spctions of the country. including 700 pPople who refusf'd to comply with civil de- fense Ol'l'iers and rc>mained in City Hnll Pm'l\ in New York C'ity, the 'Lni<Jn de• monstra tion '\\'ns far from .,.;uccessful. Tf thr purpoi\f' of thP Union drmonstrat ors was to crente con- trover·sy or nhtain pPrsonal pub- licity, then they were more than succc•,.;sful. But if they acted. as we certainly hope they did, to fur- ther the cause of nuc!Par disarm- ament and a positivP approach to peace, then th~y fell far short of their g;-o!l.l. A demonstration should be a serious attempt to in- fluencP public opinion. not a lark for discontent~. If th£> Union dcmonstTntion was to have any m~:ming-, it should have been geared toward convincing the moderat-es in the audience that civil defense wa~ a deterrent to peace and that nuclear warfare must be prc\·cntrci at all eost~. If the organrz,•r·s of this denron- ,;tratJon are still interested in the Hkals that prompted thenl to act, nanwly a ce::>sation of nuclear tc'Stmg, an urgent and active at- tt•mpt ·to brtng about nuclcat· diB- armanH·nt, and the encouragement uf a J><'ace·philosophy motivating thi,.; country's future policies, and if thPse people are willing to spend con,.idera.bly more time than tht• fl'\\' hoUI'::l that went uno a.rntnglllg their demonstra- tion. they might think seriously of tht• po;;sibility of organizing a local chapter of SANE \Na- tional Committee fur a Sane Nu- cle:u· Poltc~·) on this campus. Here i\ a po,;iti\'t• way of influencing th,.ir f,•Jlow :-'tudents, but it would •n\'nl\'<' wnrk and perhaps their Idt'!ll~ are not quite that strong. l'ekr Ste-lnglass '60 To the Eclitor::> of Concordiensis: It was with mixed emotions that I followed Tuesday's down- town demonstration by Union Cullc,.;c ,;tuJent..; against the state- ·.dclo• CiYil DL·fense air raid drlil. Protest .. and the right to it which \t times must be created by the male on tents, surely is one of the foundations of American democ- racy. Protest at Union, ·by how- e\'l'l' small a group, is a happy \ign that apathy is not really the Paine Gate pa....;sword. However, with all due respect to the lead- <'I'S of the effort l whose friend- ship I hope I shall retain if this is publi~hedl I would talte excep- tion to their choice of point of attack. A denonstr·ation i,; not a picnic outing: it is supposc·d to influence public op1mon and to do so it must be organized and well co· ordinate~. The Cnion dc•monstra- tion, ho,I'C'\'er, was a terribly slip· shod affair·, \vhich could not ha\\e been ti1.e re«ult of more than a fc\'\' hour,; inadequate plannin,;. Cel'ta.inly som~one ;;hould have re8.llZ<'ol l><·fure the e\'l'llt that they \VUl.lld lJe con•rl'd by the local nc-..l'spaper,; and television and th3.t these n1e<lia would be the ones to court if th<'Y expected to influcnl' c more' than a handful of sidcl\.\alk obscrvl'rs >'tanding in the doorways of stores along St.'1te Stro·ct. In . .;tpad tht' IPadt>l'it of the d .:monsti·ation failed to ap· point a spoke~man. furgl'l even to wear jackets and tics to add a touch of re.\P<'ctahility. and al- low<'u t.hems<'iv·c~ to bPcoml' in- volv('d in petty arguments with a heck! el' <which compri:-'ed the mr!jrnitv of thf' TV C'O\'C'l'O.l!o' nf thP .,,·C.nt > and in a ridic·ulous I contt'll\'er,;y with Pn•><IdPnt Da- I vic!son ll'hn. tht·y cla imP<!, had been \grossly unfcur\ to their 1 cau.\e. The latt~r incident. of' COUrf3e, \Vas ptCkl'd Up j,y a: \\'atchlul r··portc·r· and included, in detail, in the local press's ac- I C\oun t (} f the df'monstrntion. I ?\o rea..\'onable citizen n•ading the account of the demonstration in the Cn;zette or watching it on WRGB-TV \Vould give it any seri- ous co11.<ideration because of the That agitation fol' peace at this time' is necessarv and desirable I ag-rPP. 'That the Civil Defense orgnnization is a fitting take-off point fm· such agitation seems <I ubious at ·best. Tuesday's demonstrators claim- ed that CD drills create a \phy- cholo~ical expectation for atomic <Continued on Page 6) Friday Nite Till Nine WORN IN THE BEST CIRCLES Punkin - You'll make the scene W'ith a gift from Mau- rice B, 6ra ubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay Street. like they've been swin .gin' for 3 generations. Har .BASS . weejuns $oo.oo • On city streets, along coun- try lanes- wear Bass Wee- juns. Famous Bass \true moc- casin\ construction makes Weejuns the most popular shoe a-footr ... gives you true slipper comfort. Try a pair .•• you'll never be without them. $15.95 3alt.$' 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-6 P.M. Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M. h ' 1 h 1 h 1 I t t . studies may be followed for a de- got a c ance. diesel; textiles have suffered by \: 1 e ~ ( tng a pa.r · true post- . . the introduction of synthetics 1 hon ( typtst, stenogn1pher, student grce. High school students ready Unfortunately, the sttuat!On in hi h ·h , 1 d tt d trainee l in one of these four ag- this June can go right in. Others West Virginia is already critical w 0 1 Tahve tep.~ceth co ··On taln encies: National Bureau of Stand can get their office skills and then I woo . ese anu o er coun ess - 1 h'i and has been so for many months. . d t 1 1 h . h 'b ards Fedenl Communications. app y, w 1 e young people in the A hundred thousand workers :'lre ~ ~~ ~:e ~it~~1~~n. ave contn ut- c-om 'mission, Department ocf the earlier years of high school have unemployed already and the sttu- Navy, or Department of State. ·time to gain their skills before ation shows no signs of improv- No Simple Solution By attending the University the graduation if they wish to plan ing. Many of these men have yea1· around (summer term in- ahead on this way of getting a absolutely no income, their un- There is no simple solution to eluded) these workers can earn college education. e~1ployment insurance having e~- the West Virginia tragedy, but their degrees in four years plus ---~o•---- ptred long ago. These Amen- there are some steps that could one additional summer. John D. Hargreaves, Lecturer cans, an_d their_families _are living be of considerable help t:o the T. 1 •• 0 Hold tb.~ Sn~e .\ob I\n H'st t th U · ·t tat • v ,~.. .., 1 ory a e · ntversi y of on a stumpy dtet of dried beans, s e. Unfortunately the Bureau Ab d S tl d f h A · h er een, co an· , will next year lard, and some other federal sur- o t e Budget has neglected to s wn some other cooperative t h eac the first course in African P lus commodities. It Is indeed take any of them. In 1959, the Pl'ograms two individuals hold the h' t • b d ts ory ever offered at Union Col- odd, that the President of the President vetoed a ·coal research sume JO an divide the time be- b .ll Th t tl 1• ·· 0 lege, it was announced by Dr. United States, who gave us tragic I . e previous year, he vetoed ween 1em, a cernatmg- etween d f d t d Carter Davidson, Union's P:resi- accounts of the poverty in A:;ia, an a1·ea re evelopment bill which our an W'O ays per week in d ld t . t 0 ent. The British educator will confesses ignorance of the same wou · have helped West Virginia consecu tve erms. ne full sal- 'd bl Th' 16 arv cov h j b d · d' come here as a Visiting Assistant condition in our own nation. cons1 era y, IS year, a - o et'S eac o , an IS !- point program, dealing with aid I vided accordingly. Professor of History in a one-year The Secretary of Agdculture, to areas of chronic unemployment, For acceptance in the Public faculty exchange between the two Ezra Taft Benson, <not a man has been passed in the Senate Caree1·s P1•ogram, as it is Cll!lled, schools which also involves Dr. given to humanitarian excesses) and as ·of Wednesday night ap- I randidafes must ha\'e ma·intained Neal W. Allen, Jr., of the local stated callously \it isn't the Gov- proved >by the House. Supporters at least a B-ave1·age the last two faculty. ernll'lent's job to supply food to of this bill are hoping that recent years of high school be recom- :Mr. Hargreaves, who will be anyone.\ Mr. Benson advocates publicity about West Virginia and mended as 'being of scholarship accompanied to Schenectady by reliance on private charities to the chance of it damaging Rich- caliber, and must attain a mini- his wife and three children is a aid the 177 disaster areas in the ard Nixon's \image\ in an elec- mum score of 6()0 on each part native of Colne, Lancashire,' Eng- nation. This proposal has 'been tion year will make it difficult of the Scholastic Aptitude Test land, and a graduate of Man- proven grossly inadeq_uate. The for President Eisenhower to veto nf the College Entrance Examin- chester University. He served as Federal Government was forced the ·bill. Another plan, proposed ation Board tests. Tbey must an Infantry officer during World to augment the charities in West by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey 1 also pass the civil service req_uire- War II and returned to Manches- Virginia ln order to assure a .sub- . ments :for the government jobs. ter after the War to earn his (Contmued on Page 6) Applications are sent to the Office M A d .. ·egree. DREAMING OF VACATION It's all right to dream of vacations, but it's wise for all juniors to start planning ahead to what you are going to do after graduation. We suggest you consider working for Public Service Electric and Gas Company in New Jersey. With more than one billion dollars invested in plant, it is one of the leading utilities in the country. Public Service ranks fourth among the investor-owned operating utility companies providing both electric and gas service in the United States. So start thinking now about next year ... you would be wise to give Public Service serious consideration. , . ,' ·'. ... ·'. SEND FOR THIS TODAY. Write for the informative brochure \Training Courses for College Gradu· ates\. Write Public Service, 80 Park Place, Room 2152A, Newark 1, New Jerse_y for your free copy. PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS CO~, NEWARK 1, N. J. A-145-59 Friday, h Midll fue finis] in the 'll standard As 1 mildly e1 field teal Wednes< 21st meet' The win against o season re( A triple Barry waf the Catan both hurc vault. He ond place tile in thE Tv The G: winners i Marshall shall tool< with a to: with Chu· second pi cus Mar! sweep wi1 inches, fc ning thr< and Kirk Bob He highjump feet, elev up with 1 leaping 1! ing out 1 fields evex place tie Hanle's t weight s< formance than hall In them 0 The ou anc.e oft in by mic Jurejevic Iiilmat·s < 4:23.5, tc inches a1 Hoffman the mile The 011 by Dave yard das onds. C< take a s start pia of the fiE up on quickly, prevente first pia• Witho1 in the 4 had to c ,Tewksbl: Wayne third. II from hif usual p~ place sE Howard first in The were co cry, whc hurdles, took thi the low Tom standou an unus first tir points leading mile ru his strE was pa

1'960· George rt But it inay ,some plewj:i.o way I):l!ltter student of a de- ready Others· in the ol .have before to plan a of year African Coi- by Dr. Presi- will the two· Dr. Iocal will ·be by is a Eng- 'M'an- as World his '.:1, . I . Friday, 'May 6, 1960 Jurejevics R~uns Mile Diamond Conting~nt Beat· Netmen Leave Green ln 4:23.5: T~ies Record ·Continentals and Norwich Mt. State U,ndefeated · By Harvey Hayden · On a cold and raining afternoon last Saturday, the baseball club downed a hapless Hamilton nine by the score ()f 11-8. Dave Mitchell was on the mound for the Locals and went all the way to get~-__:_ __ - --- ---···-- --·-- the Lawrencemen past the three hits in six times at bat, and . D a v e w a s Hayden chipped in four singles f 13 :h.\t b ··t ·h .In five trips to the plate to aid , Or I S, U e the Garnet attac·k. '.scattered them enough to Wide Open Slugfesi; lceep the losers from putting The contest was a slugfest, as t~gether a big inning.. the totall:1 indicate, and was a Tony Tiska carried the big bat wide o1Jen affair. Union played · as the Garnet swept the season's wen in the field and they were series from Hamilton. Tiska sin- even better at the ·plate with in the first inning with the everyone getting at least «>ne hit. bases loaded to produce 2 runs On the other :hand, Norwii'ch had 'and put Union into the lead. The numer(}us mental lapses, coth on junior o)ltfielder drove in four the field and basepaths which . runs altogether with a single, prevented them from keeping in ,.,,,p,.m,.,. fly and infield out. ·Ron • the ball game with the Du:tchmen. Wotherspoon had a pair of base Line score: hits and ,John Pelton had a sin-· Union ...... 230 133 301-:15 19 2 gle, double and two walks to score Norwich ... 010 130 001- 6 11 l two runs for the Dutchmen. Box score: The Big Inning Union ab r b rbi bb po a. e Semo, cf 5 2 2 1 1. 1 0 0 The !>ig inning for the Garnet Mitchell, ss 5 2 1 1 t 0 5 0 was the fifth in which they scored Pelton, 3b 4 3 3 4 1. 1 1 1 l'ive big runs to put them into Wothersp'n, 1b 5 2 3 1 t 12 1 0 the lead for good. Pelton started aDelaney, 1b 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 things off with a walk. Semo Tiska, p 4 o 1 3 1l 1 4 0 singled and Mitchell followed Kranzm'n, lf 1 3 2 2 0 2 0 0 with another single to load the, Thurston, Zb 4 1 1 0 ll. 1 0 0 bases. Wotherspoon walked to bEvans, 2b 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .force in a run. Tiska hit into a Kopec, c 2 1 o o 0 6 0 1. . force play but Kranzmann fol- . lowed with a single to left to Totals 44 151913 6 '1:113 2 Jbbn Honey, high-flying Garnet netman, exhibits exubera.nt form that has made him one of t11e most interesting Union tennis stylists in. recent 'Years. drive in another run. Thurston a-Replaced Wotherspoom in 9th· then lofted a fly ball to left that' b-Flied out for Thurston in 9th the Hamilton left fielder allowed WP-Tiska (3- 1 ). LP-Ru«>ff (1_ 2 ) By Ronald Weinstein to pop out of hi:s glove, scoring * * -)E- The Union College Tennis Team invaded the Gr-een two more runs. Evans struck With the decision hinging on Mountain State on Tuesday and Wednesday and conquered <lut, but Kopec singled to center, six Union errors, the Gar-net nine d M'ddl b t · t 1 Middle distance star, Jurejevlcs, is pictured crossing the finish line, fuches before his \Vermont opponent, to pJa,ce. first in the mlle event. His tlni<e 'Of 4:23:5 tied TCim Hof:fm~m's :mile sta.uda1-d for dual-meet competiti~JJ. . :;!,Coring Kranzmann with the fifth dropped a 5-3 decision to Middle- highly -1'ated Vermont an I e ury earns m wo c ose run of the inning. Pelton ended bm:y Wednesday afternoon at the matches. • . the inning by grounding out to Middies' home field. The loss The Coach Carl Witzel-inspired Final score for the Vermont the second baseman. dropped Union below the netters thereby ex:tended their rnatch was 5 to 4, while Union py Leslie Marrus This game was the same type of mark, as their record noiV stands, season mark to five straight vic- raped Middlebury 6 to 3. Tom or- game that was played before by 4-5. tories. row, Union will shoot at Its ten.th As balmy breezes blew acr-oss Alexander Field, and mildly enthusiastic crowd looked on, the Union track and field team succumbed to VerrnolJ,.t.;depth,-71-55~ these two clubs. Both teams had· Dave Mitchell, who pfttched Demonstrate Depth consecutive victory in two years mental lapses in the field and' beautiful game, giving up only Demonstrating except i 0 n a 1 when it hOSts Hartwick at 3:00 the pitching was not superb by eight hits and two earned runs, depth, the team put together win- P.M. either team. Union collected 10 a_t)sorbed the loss as hill fielding ning ~ombinations in both Singles-Jay Vanneck (Ul ·beat hits while Hamilton had 13. .C'Qmpatriots collapsed bei:aind him. matches, yet saw only Jay Van- Ed Sommers lM) 2-6, 6-4, &:2. Art Wednesday's meet marked tlle~•?---__:=------------ 21st meeting of the two schbi>ls. >) • • • • i · The win was Vermont's third out of scoring pos1t1on, _ftms ung Line score: His opposite, on the Mi:ddlebury neck and Sophomore Jay Ehlen Wilks <Ml beat Bruce Lawton Union ...... 200 053 01()-1110 5 nine,, was an impressiv-e fresh- win both of their sfh-gles matches <Ul 6-1, 6-2. John Honey lU> •beat Hamilton .. 012 000 302- 8 13 5 man, who allowed the Goarnet an in the lwCl c<mtests. Corky Allen (M) 6-1, 6-3. Lou 'ATF-Mitchell. LP-Blessing. equal number of hits. b . d Euckman <Ul beat Shube M:er- . . . . , , In a half-hearted fash1.on that agamst one Joss, whlle Untons t t · 1 f th G t d\ season record now stands at 1.-3. was no yplca o e arne . Is- A· triple win by Vermont's Bill ta.nce star. V!!-Dneck dramatically une rill (Ml· 6-2, 6-3. Mike Krasts (:M} ·* -l<· * Ex~els a'\ Pia'\- v t t P t S 6-4 6 1 Barry was the big point getter for } --.--o the Catamounts. Barry captul:\ed :0 ympic Mentor both hurdle events and the pole Th th h t d th v ·• \\' · ermon s ar e e now • • • beat Er1\c Greenbush (U). 6-\' \''. · e wea er was 0 an · e Mitchell ·also exceHed. at the \' ~-. Union bats were even hotter as as a warm up for his encounter Jay Ehlen <Ul beat Pete Askin vault. He also figured in a SEC- Is Main Speaker ond place with Uni()n's Ed Gen- the Dutchmen downed Norwich .plate, producing half of the Law- with Middlebury's standout, Ed <Ml B-4, 6_3_ T d b th \d d · rencemen's hits. It was .a perfect Sommers. Sommers pressed Van- Doubles-Sommers and Askin on ues ay ' Y e one-sl e score day for• t·he alternatl·n.g sho,tstop h fi t t 6 2 b t Of 15 6 To T . k ·t h d f r •· neck taking t e rs se - u ('Ml beat Vanneck and Lawton - · ny IS a Pl c 9 0 as he went four for fo'\r Join- 6 4 6 2 t th G t d 11 h ·ts ~ lost the next two sets . - , - a 17 -15, 6-1. Greenbush and Honey tile in the high-jump. At Sports Fete Two StaJ:s Double e arne an gave up · 1 ing Mitchell for ·batting honors · ' h hi and 6 runs as Union pounded out the bands of Umon s lg Y com- (U) beat Wilkes and Allen (M) 19 hits and 15 runs off four Nor- ww:; John Pelton who chipped in petent court-master. '6-4, 6-4. Buckman and Bender wich hurlers. 2 singles. :Fight Up!J:ill Battle tU> beat Harvey Gray and Mer- Union gained its onJF margin Bruce Lawton fought an uphill rill (Ml 6-3, 6-3. The Garnet had two doul:Jle Hockey Coach John (Jack) Ch k 'Riley, who led the American sex- winners in the persons of ac tet to its first Olympic and World WOitherspoon Leads Attack of the contest in the thlrd frame battle agal.rn;t · Vermont's Ray as they rung lip two :runs. Mike Kelsey, surmounting several Kel- Marshall and Bob Holland. Mar- shall took a first in the shotput Championship at Squaw Valley · with a toss of 45 feet, 3'6 incl1es, this year, will be the main speaker with Chuck Hanle coming in :for .a.t the Union College AU-Sports second place honors. In the dis- Ditmer May 9th at 6:15 P.M. in cus Marshall led a Dutchman West College. · . The 38-yea!'-old native of Med- Big Rem Wotherspoon led the Union attack with a single, a double that missed going over the fence by a foot or so, and a tre- mendous home run that sailed over the left fielder's head and rolled for eternity allowing \The Spoon\ to gallop around the sacks for his first round tripper of the year. Semo had two hits, driv- ing in a run, and Pelton belted a triple and two singles to drive in four runs. KPanzmann had Evans walked and to()k third on one of Mitchell's singles. Mitchell sey set points to finally triumph, 1-6, 7-5~ 6-4. The big blond Sche- stole second and Peltolll walked, nectadian, while playing some of· setting the scene for Wotherspoon the best tennis of his three year to drive ho-me two w-ith! a bases career as second man, dropped his loaded single. singles match against Middle- Friday Nite Till Nine sweep with a heave of 138 feet.,. 2 f<>rd, Massachusetts, will speak ~:>n inches, followed in turn by win- :his experiences .as Olym}iic coach ning throws from Chuck Ha.nle .b-efore the 18 5 Union College stu- and Kirk Mellen. dent athletes, theiT coa.ches, and Bob Holland placed first in the a representative group from the highjump with a height of five . h d f !I d .area press. feet, eleven me es, an o ovve . Trophies Awarded up with a win in the broadjump, Another high point of the din- leaping 19 feet, .5¥..1 inches. Rou.nd- .ner will be the awarding of the !ng out the places taken in the .. outstanding player\ tr<lphies to fields events, were Gentile's second a member of each of the College!s place tie in the highjump and :thirteen varsity teams. In addi- Hanle's third in the javelin. The .tion, all 1Qther major athletic weight squad's 55;5 per cent per- awards for the year will be made formance accounted for I!lore at the dinner, it has been an- than half of Union's total points. nounced by Wilford H. Ketz, Di· In the meet. ·rector of Athletics, Tbis is the Outsta.uding Show third successive year the College The outstanding track perform- .bas had an AJJcSports Dinp.er. ance <>f the afternoon was turned One of the youngest '!llen ever in by middle distance star Elmars to dire.ct the fortunes o.:f. the U.S. Jurejevics, In a surprising upset, Olympic squad, Jack R1ley C()m- Elmars crossed the finish line in peted in the 1948 Olympics at St. 4:23.5, to take a first by mere' ,Moritz, Switzerland, and was inches and in doing so tied 'I'om player-coach of the 1949 team th~t Hoffman's old school standard ·for represented bhe Unit~d States 1n the mile run. . the championships 17t Stockholm. The only other first was ta.ken, s:ved~n, lrefore. takm!f over the by Dave Connery in tl:!e hundred d1recbon of th1s years teall?-. yard dash with a time of 10.4 sec- As Head <;Joach at the ~illtary­ onds. Connery also managed tc' Academy, R1ley ha~ been SlgJ?-aiW take a second in the 220. A bac'. .successful. He hb!rally hfted start placed him way in the back Army's h~cltey for~u~es to tmpar- of the field, and although he came ell~led he1ghts. Jommg .the West up on Vermont's Roy Green Pom~ staff for the ~950-51 season; quickly, a fraction of an 1 inch ~e c!Imax:ed a consistently su~er-. prevented his taking . a second: 10r coachmg performance by :}}e- . 1 ing named . NCAA. \Coach 'Of the first Pace. Year\ in 1957. · He was renamed Concede a First \Coach of the Year\ in 1960 in an Without Jurejevics competing, unprecedented action by his in the 440 the Garnet thin cclads. coaching colleague!;!. . had to concede a first, but Dave· J8.(1k Rides ffiglt .Tewksbury took second and An outstanding athlete ln his Wayne Laverty followed with a own right, he was an Ali~Seholas­ third, !n the 880 Jurejevics, tired tic at Medford High School from his mile effort, was off hi'S: (Mas·s.), captained the Clark usual pace and wa.s only able t() School, Hanover, N. H., and place second in the field, 'With . starred in hockey, soccer and Howard Cutts of Ver-mont taldng. bas~ball at Dartmoutll College, first in 2:05.3. In the 1949 World <:lhampionship Lawrence's crew ,..,.ill play Rochester today, at Alexander bury's .Art Wilke. · _ Field. Jo!m Honey and Captain Lew Line score: Buckman both suffered singles 6 setbacl~s against Vermont and Union · · · · · · 0° 2 000 1 Q0-- 3 8 then countered with decisive vic- Middlebury 012 010 10&---5 8 2 tories .against Middlebury. Fifth -------------------------~---- man E:ric Greenbush reversed the St • k v • L d process, defeating Bob Katz of .. c_ men anqutSite Vermont 11-9, 6-2, and then losing It · to Kra.sts of Middlebury, 6-3, 6-4. By Steve Dickerman Surging back in the second half, Union's s.tickmen couldn't quite overcome Colgate's lead, this past Tuesday, as they bowed 6-3 to the Hamilton, New York te:.m. Still handicapped by injuries, • the Garnet visitors none-the-less ! back because of sidelined Ed La- gave a .fine performance. Out- zar, Johnny Welch, Ed Euchwald, standing was the defense work of and Bill Reaman, tlle stickmen Bob Fuller and John Campani. soon suffered the loss of two more The Garnet goalie turned away men. 31 shots, while Fuller stopped at Midfielder Larry Matteson sus- least 15 more. Union, however, tained a fractured heg, while was outshot 69-20. goalie John Camp ani w;oas hit on ·Ed Reichert, AI August, and Ed the knee and removed after ·the ·Lazar all hit the nets unassisted. fir§t half of the game. Reichert tallied in the third per- iod, with the others hitting home Campani, who was CJre-dited with in the last quarter. nine saves, was repla~d by Ed Tomorrow's home game against Krause. The sophmnore was Oortland should bring most of the credited with seven m(llre stops- sidelined stickmen :back to the in the last two quarters of play. lineup. Rated as an ·even match, Larry Adkinson, regarded as Hobart's main threat, was held the Big Ten should pull it off. scoreless during the first half .by Tuesday's tally: defenseinan Bob Fuller's man-to- UNION · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 1 2-'3 man playing. The Class of '62 is COLG'ATE · · · · · · · • 3 0 1 2-S Ed Reichert gave Union its only * * * - d The injury-stricken Garnet goal in tohe third pel'llO . bowed 14-1 to a strong Hobart UNION . . . . . . . . . . . 0 () 1 o- 1 squad this past Saturday. Held HOBART . . . . . . . . 3 i5 3 3-14 ALL . ATHLETES Interested in Obtaining SPORTS PHOTOS Elilen Seores Big Soph<lmore .Jay Ehlen rounded out the Union singles scoring, tak· ing a close match from Phil Schreibet· of Vermont in three sets and then trouncing Pete As· kin <lf Middlebury, 6-4, 6-3. In doubleS, Union took two out of three in each of the matches with <Only Lew Buckman and Gary Binder scoring victories on both days. Coach Witzel labeled \outstanding\ tile match won by Greenbush aiJd Honey over Wilkes and Allen of Middlebury. Tom Cartmill, who left Union to take o.ver as athletic director at st. La.WI.'ence \University. can be proud of his first winter at the helm of the Larried intercollegi- ate ap<lrts eff01'ts. Under Cartmill's direction. the Canton school has posted an en- viable record to date. All squads. football b-asketball and hockey have c~mp!ied' winning records, for a combined won and lost total of 45-:28-3. Hockey led the parade with a 14-8-2 mark a.n<l ap, NCAA tourney berth. Other figures were var- sity f()otball 4-3; frosh football ~1; varsity 'bask.etball 10.8; ~rosh bas- ketbaLl 7~5; fros;b hockey 6-3-1. , • Last year at tbls tline, the total · recorill read 34-40-1. Those students who will be attending home te11nia matches are :requested not to call to (}1' tallt t<> Garnet players, as this The remaining Union places at Stockholm, the United :States ,vere contributed by Norm Lav- was the only team to contri-ve a ery, who took a second. in the lo'W win over the ultimate champion hurdles, and John Gerken, who Czechoslovakia by a score of 2 t<l took thirds in both the high an~ o. Jack scored both .goals and the low hUrdles. along with Bruce Mather, fo:rmer 'rom :S:off!llan, the Garnet's Dartmouth star, was hlg'~ scorer, standout ·di'stance performer, had' The AHA team compiled an im- an unusually bad day and for the pressive over-all record of 4Z vic- first time this seruion scored no · tories and three defeats under . points for . the Ketzmen. .After · Riley's tutelage. For the May Pick Them Up In Publications Office Wednesday or Thursday After8:00 P.M. is considered 'Unsports.manilke , . conduet. We are duty-bound to treat visiting te~s. as our g-uests. Furthermore, Coach Wit2el has asked that no spec· t~to:rs enter the stands during the (lOUrt play. The stands ma.y be entered w'hen the play:ers a.re switching sldes. leading in both the mUe ancl 'two three year.s Jack has been mile rtms, he seemed to lose ail ated wibh Macintyre~ Fay ·an.d. his strength and desire onc:e be Thayer Insurance Agen.ay in Need~ was passed and slowly dropped ham. Mass. Descended from Mr. TATTERSAl Mr. Tattersal of London il1 the days of long ago hss ile- queathed his favorite checked pattern to this smart fashion. The hacking pockets of the jacket carry on the tr11ditioll of the British horsey set, $29.95 :ltalt.$' 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-4 P.M. Thurs. & ·Fri. till 9 P. M.

1960 George It But it may s·ome who way matter of r a de- ready Others then in the have before o plan a ecturer sity of year on Col- by Dr. P:resi- or will two Dr. e local be by is a Eng- Man- as World his Friday, May 6, 1960 s Jurejevics Runs Mile Diamond Contingent Beat· Netmen Leave Green In 4:23.5: Ties Record Continent~!.~,.~!!~ Norwich Mto State Undefeated On a cold and raining afternoon last Saturday, the · basebaH club downed a hapless HamHton nine by the score of 11-8. D.ave Mitchell was on the n1o1:1nd for the Locals 1 and went aU the way to get •- - · - • -- - 1 the Lawrencemen past the three hit,; in .six limes at hat .. a.nd I Continentals. D a v e w as : Hayd~n chippFd In four smgl~.s t 'h d f 13 h't b t h m five trips tu the plate to aid ouc e or ! s, U ·e.· .the Garnet a uack. scattered them enough .to Wid<> Open stugf<>st keep the lGsers from putting The cuntetit was a Blugf<'st, as 1 together a big inning. the tota•ls indicate, and was a Tony Tiska carried the big bat wide open affair Union played: as the Ganlet swept the \eaoun's. wcl'l in the field and th••v WP!'P' seri~s from Hamilton. Titika sin- <'V,-n ·bettPr at the plat~ with I gled in the fir:;t inning with the ·everyone getting at least one hit II base,; loaded to .produce 2 rUII~ On the other .hand. Nor·wich had and put Union into the lead. The numerous mental lap_,;es, both on! junior outfielder d.rove in four lhe field and basepath\ which' runs altogether with a single, prevented them fl'om keeping in I sacrifice fly and infield out. Ron the ball game with the Dutchmen.\ Wotherspoon had a pair of bast· Line score: hits and John PPlton had a .sin-· Union ...... 230 133 301- -15 19 2 gle, double and two walks to score Norwir'h 010 130 001 6 11 1 Box score: two runs for· the Dutchmen. T'he Big Iwling The big inning for the Garnet was the fifth in which they scored fiv<• big runs to put them into the lead for good. Pelton started things off with a walk. SE.'mo singled and Mitchell followed with another single to load the bases. \\'()therspoon walked to force in a run. Tiska hit into a force play but Kranzmann fol- Union ub r h rbi bu po a e 5 2 2 1 1 1 0 0 .5 2 1 1 1 0 5 0 -1 3 3 4 1 1 1 1 Semo, cf Mitchell, ss Pelton, 3h Wothersp'n, lb aDelaney, lb Tiska, p Kranzm'n. If Thurstun, Zb bEvans, 2b Kopec. c 5 2 3 1 1 12 1 o I 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 ·10131140 13220200 -!1 01100 1 0 u 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 6 0 1 John Honey, high-flying Garnet netman, exhibits exub<>rant fcrm that has ma-de him one of the most interesting Union tennis stylists in recent years. By Ronald Weinstein :Middle distance star, Elmars Jurejevics, is pictured crossing the finish line, inches lref()-re his Vermont opp()-nent, t()- place first in the 'Dille eve~~~.t, His ti'mc of 4:23.5 tied '}1()1m Hoffman's mile standard for dual-meet c~mpetition. lowed with a single to left to Totals 44 15 19 13 6 27 13 2 drive in another run. Thurston a-Replaced w otherspoon in 9th then lofted a fly ball to left that b-Fiied out for Thurston in 9th the Hamilton left fielder allowed WP-Tiska l 3-1 ). LP-Ruoff <1-2> to pop out of his glove, scoring -x- * * two more t·uns. Evan,; struck \\'ith the decision hinging on out, but Kopec singled to center. ,;ix Union er-ror-s, the Garnet nine scoring Kranzmann with the fifth dropped a 5-3 decision to Middle- run of the inning. Pelton en<led bury Wednesday afternoon at the the inning by grounding out to Middies' home field. The loss the second baseman. dropped Union below the .500 The Union College Tennis Team invaded the Green Mountain State on Tuesday and Wednesday and conquered highly rated Vermont and Middlebury teams in two close matches. i ·- - - py Leslie Marrus As balmy breezes blew across Alexander Field, and a mildly enthusiastic cr0wd looked on, the Union track and field team succumbed to VermonLrlepth, 71-55. Wednesday's meet marked the • 21st meeting of the two schools. The win was Vermont's third against one loss, while Union's season record now stands at 1-3. A triple win by Vermont's Bi11 Bar-ry was the big point getter for the Catamounts. Barry captured both hurdle events and the pole vault. He also figured in a sec- ond place with Union's Ed Gen- tile in the high-jump. Two Stars DoubLe The Garnet had two double winners in the persons of Chuck Marshall and Bob Holland. Mar- shall took a first in the shotput with a toss of 45 feet, 3% inches, with Chuck Hanle coming in for second place honors. In the dis- cus Marshall led a Dutchman sweep with a heave of 138 feet, 2 inches, followed in turn by win- ning throws from Chuck Hanle and Kirk Mellen. Bob Holland placed first in the highjump with a height of five feet, eleven inches, and followed up with a win in the ·broa.djump, leaping 19 feet, 5 1 /.o inches. Round- ing out the places taken in the fields events, were Gentile's second place tie in the highjump and Hanle's third in the javelin. The weight squad's 55.5 per cent per- formance accounted for more than half of Union's total points in the meet. Outstanding Show The outstanding track perform- anc.e of the afternoon was turned in by middle distance star Elmars Jurejevics. In a surprising upset ~lmat·s crossed the finish line in 4:23.5, to take a first by mere inches and in doing so tied Tom Hoffman's old school stanciard for the mile run. out of scoring position, finishing in a half-i1earted fashion that was not typical of the Garnet dis- tance star. ---0---- 0lympic Mentor Is Main Speaker At Sports Fete Hockey Coach John (Jack) Riley, who led the Am-erican sex- tet to its first Olympic and World Championship at Squaw Valley this year, will be the main speaker at the Union College All-Sports Dinner May 9th at 5:15 P.M. in West Colleg-e. The 38-year-old native of Med- ford, Massaehusett~. will speak ()n his experiences as Olympic coach before the 185 Union College stu- dent atbletes, their coaches, and a representative group from the area press. Tro()-hies Awarded Anobher h.igh point of the din- ner will be the awarding of the \outstanding player\ trophies to a member of each of the College's thirteen val\sity teams. In addi- tion, all other major athletic awards for the year will be made at the dinner, it has been an- nounced by Wilford H. Ketz, Di- rector of A.thletics. This is the third successive year the College has had an All-Sports Dinner. One of the youngest men ever to direct the fortunes of the U.S. Olympic squad, Jaclr Riley com- peted in the 1948 Olympics at St. Moritz, Switzerland. and was player-coach of the 1949 team that represented the United States in the championships at Stoclrh()lm, Sweden, before taking over the direction of this year's team. This game was the same type of .mark, as their rccOt·d now stands, game that was played before by 4-5. these two clubs. Both teams had Dave Mitchell, who pitched a mental lapses in the field and beautiful game, giving up only the pitching was not superb by. eight hits and two earned runs, either team. Union collected 10 apsorbed the loss as his fielding hits while Hamilton had 13. compatriots collapsed behind him. Line score: His opposite, on the Middlebury Union ...... 2{}() 053 010--11 10 5 nine, was an impressive fresh- Hamilton .. 012 000 302-- 8 1<l 5 man, who allowed the Garnet an WP-Mitchell. LP-Biessing. equal number of hits. -l!- * * Excrls a.t Pia~ The weather was hot and the Mitchell also excelled at the Union bats were even hotter as the Dutchmen downed Nor-wich plate, producing half of the Law- rencemen's hits. It was a perfect on Tuesday by the one-sided score day fOt' the alternating shortstop of 15-6. Tony Tiska pitched for as he went four for four. Join- the Garnet and gave up 11 hits ing Mitchell for batting honors and 5 runs as Union pounded out 19 hits and 15 runs off four Nor- was John Pelton who chipped in wich hurlers. 2 singles. Union gained its only margin Wothers.poon Leads Attack of the contest in the third frame Big RGn Wotherspoon led the as they rung up two runs. Mike Union attack with a single, a Evans walked and took third on double that missed going over the one of Mitchell's .singles. Mitchell fence by a foot or so, and a tre- stole second and Pelton walked, mendous horne run that sailed setting the scene for Wotherspoon over the left fielder's head and to drive ho·me two with a bases rolled fo.r eternity allowing \The loaded single. Spoon\ to gallop around the sacks Lawrence's crew will play for his first round tripper of the Rochester today, at Alexander year. S.emo had two hits, driv- Field. ing in a r1.1n, and Pelton belted a Line score: triple and two singles to drive Union . . . . . . 002 000 lQ0-3 8 6 in four runs. Kranzmann had Middlebury 012 010 lOx-5 8 2 Stickmen Vanquished By Steve DiC!kerman Surging back in the second half, Union's stickmen couldn't quite overcome Colgate's lead, this past Tuesday, as they bowed 6-3 to tile Hamilton, New York team. Still handicapped by injuries, • -----·-- -- the Gat·net visitors none-the-less · back because of sidelined Ed La- gave a fine perfor'lllance. Out- I zar, Johnny Welch, Ed Buchwald, standing was the defense work of and Bill Reaman, the sticirrnen Bob Fuller and John Campani. soon suffered the loss of two more The Garnet goalie turned away men. 31 shots, while Fuller stopped at Midfielder Larry Matteson sus- least 1~ more. Union, however, tained a fractured leg, while was outshot 69-20. goalie John Campani was hit on · Ed Reichert, AI August, and Ed the knee and removed after the Lazar all hit the nets unassisted. first half of the game. Reichert tallied irt the thii•d per- iod, with the others hitting ·home Campani, who was credited with nine saves, was replaced by Ed in the last quarter. Tomorrow's home game against Krause. The sophomore was Cortland should bring most of the credited with seven more stops- sidelined stickmen back to the in the last two quarters of play. lineup, Rated as an even match, Larry Adkinson, regarded as Hobart's main threat, was held the Big Ten should pull it off. scoreless dm'ing the first half by The Coach Carl Witzel-inspired Final score for· the Vermont netters thereby extended their match was 5 to 4, ·while Union season mark to five straight vic- raped Middlebury 6 to 3. Tomar- tories. row, Union will shoot at its tenth Dentonstrate Depth consecutive victory in two years Demonstrating ex c e p t ion a I depth, the team put together win- ning combinations in both matches, yet saw only Jay Van- neck and Sophomore Jay Ehlen win both of their sin'gles matches in the two contests. when it hosts Hartwick at 3:00 P.M. Vanncck dramatically buried Vermont star Pete Snow 6-4, 6-1, as a warm up for his encounter with Middlebury's standout, Ed Sommers. Sommers pressed Van- neck taking the first set 5-2 but lost the next two sets 6-4, 6-2 at the hands of Union's highly com- petent court-master. Singles-Jay Vanneck ( U> beat Ed Sommers < M > 2-6, 6-4, 6-2. Art Wilks !Ml beat Bruce Lawton ( U> 6-1, 6-2. John Honey ( U > beat Corky Allen lM> 6-1, 6-3. Lou Buckman lU> beat Shube Mer- rill < M > 5--2, 6-3. Mike Krasts ( M) beat Eric Greenbush (U) 6-3, 6-4. Jay Ehlen ( Ul beat Pete Askin < M > 6-4, 6-3. Doubles-Sommers and Askin <M> beat Vanneck and Lawton 17 ·15, 6-1. Greenbush and Honey <Ul beat Wilkes and Allen <Ml 6-4, S--4. Buckman and Bender <U J beat Harvey Gray and Mer- rill (M) 6-3, 5-.3. Figltt Upblll Battle Bruce Lawton fought an uphill battle against· Vermont's Ray Kelsey, surmounting several Kel-~ sey set points to finally triumph, 1-6, 7-5, 6-4. The big blond Sche- : nectadian, while playing some of the best tennis of his three year career as second man, dropped his singles match against Middle- bury's Art Wilke. John Honey and Captain Lew Buckman both suffered singles setbacks against Vermont and I then countered with decisive vic- . tories against Middlebury. Fifth man Eric Greenbush reversed the process, defeating Bob Katz of Vermont 11-9, 6-2, and then losing to Krasts {)f Middlebury, 6-3, 6-4. ~en Scores Big Sophomore Jay Eh-len rounded I out the Cnion singles scoring, ta~-~ ing a close match from Phil Schreiber of Vermont in three sets and then trouncing Pete As- kin of Middlebury, 6-4, 6-3. In doubles, Union took two out of three in each of the matches with only Lew Buckman and Gary Bindel' scoring victories on both days. Coach \Vitzel labeled \outstanding\ the match won by. Greenbush and Honey over Wilkes and Allen of Middlebury. Tom Cartmill, who left Union to take over as athletic director at St. Lawrence University. can be pi•oud of his first winter at the helm of the LaiTies' intercollegi- ate sports efforts. Friday Nite Till Nine Descended from Mr. TATTERSAL The only other first was taken by Dave Connery in the hundred yard dash with a time of 10.4 sec- onds. Connery also managed tt take a second in the 220. A bac start placed him way in the back of the field, and although he came up on Vermont's Roy Green quickly, a fraction of an'!· inch prevented his taking a second first place. As Head Coach at the Military Academy, Riley has been sigi_J-ally successful. He 1i terally lifted Army's hockey fortunes to unpar- elleled heig-hts. J1>ining the West Point staff for the 1950-51 season, he climaxed a consistently super- ior coaching performance by be- ing named NCAA \Coach of the Year\ in 1957. He was renamed \Coach of the Year\ in 1960 in an unprecedented action by his coaching colleagues. Tuesday's tally: . • t UNION 0 0 1 2-'3 ·defenseman Bob FuiiE>r s man- f!- COLQIA TE. '.' .' .' .' .' .' .' .' 3 o 1 2-6 • man p~aying. The CI:o:ss ~f '62 ts Under Cartmill's direction. the Canton school has posted an en- viable record to date. All squads. football basketball and ho-ckey have c~mplied winning records, for a combined won and lost total of 4li-28-3. Mr. Tattersal of London in the days of long ago has be- queathed his favorite checked pattern to this smart fashion. The hacking pockets of the jacket carry on the tradition cf the British horsey set. Concede a First Without Jurejevics competing in the 440 the Garnet thin clads had to concede a first, but Dave Tewksbury took second and \wayne Laverty followed with a third. In the 880 Jurejevics, tired from his mile effort, was off his usual pace and was only able to place second in the field, with Howard Cutts of Vermont taking first in 2:05.3, The 1·emaining Unicn places were contributed by Norm Lav- ery, who took a second in the low hurdles, and John Gerken, who tool• thirds in both the high and the low hurdles, Tom I!offman, the Garnet's standout distance performer, had an unusually bad day and for the first time this season scored no points for the Ketzooen. After leading in both the mile and two mile runs, he seemed to lose all his strength and desire once he was passed and slowly dropped Jacl• Rides High An outstanding athlete in his own right, he was an All-Scholas- tic at M:edford High School (Mass.), captained the Clark School, Hanover, N. H., and starred in hockey, soccer and bas~ball a.t Dartmouth College.· In the 1949 World Championship at Stockholm, the United States was the only team to contrive a win over the ultimate champion Czechoslovakia by a score of 2 to o. Jack scored both goals and along with. Bruce Mather, former Dartmouth. star, was high scorer. The AHA team compiled an im- pressive over-all record of 42 vic- tories and three defeats under Riley's tt1telage. For the p~t three year's Jack has ·been affih- ated with. Macintyre, Fay and Thayer Insurance Agency in Need- ham, Mass. ~- * * I Ed Reichert ga ~e Um~n 1ts only The Lnjury-strielren Garnet goal in the thud pertod. bowed 14-1 to a strong Hobart UNION .... - .. - .. - 0 0 1 D- 1 squad this past Saturday. Held I HOBART , . . . . . . . 3 5 3 3--1: ALL ATHLETES Interested in Obtaining SPORTS PHOTOS May Pick Them Up In Publications Office Wednesday OI' Thursday After 8:00P.M. Hockey led the parade with a 14-8-2 mark and an NCAA tourney berth. Other figures were var- sity football 4-3; frosh football 4-1; varsity bas'koetball 10-8; frosh bas- l!etball 7-5; frosh hockey 6-3-1. Last year at this time, the total 1·ecord read 34-40-1. Those students who will be attending home tennis matches are requested not to call to or tallt. to Garnet players, as this is considered unsportsmanlike conduct. We are duty-b1>und to treat visiting teams as our guests. Furthermore, Coach Witzel has asked that no spec- tatorS' enter the stands during the court play. The stands may . be entered When the players are switching sides. $29.95 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-6 P.M. Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M.

\ 6 Friday, May 6. 1960 Prize Day Accolades ... Letter • • • Prosperity • • 0 by-the Administration to alleviate ·Scene in- West Virginia;'' ''Yes, the suffering in West Virginia. 240,000 destHute peo:ple d~d receive This ,statement was challenged by federal surplus food last Febru- ~ ·------------------- or Rimkus; M. Raymond Buyce received the Akerblom Summer Field Course Scholarship; and the. Chemistry Achievement Award from the Chemical Rubber Com- pany went to Carl B. Tannen- baum. <Continued from Page 1) $400. Presented to him on the occasion were: the $100 Donald Coulter Prize for the best debater at the College; the $100' .Joseph Oaggett Prize for exemplary conduct and character; the $50 James Goodrich-Alexander Duane deb;:lting prize; the $100 Oswald- Heck-Irwin Steingut Prize for the Seven Student Council Meritor- best work in t:he field of govern-. ious Service Awards, recognition ment; and the $50 Milton Hymes .. for outstanding sen·ice to the Sternfeld Prize for the best orig- college comhtunity, were present- ina! e:;say in philosophy. ed. Those honored were Stephen <Continued from Page 4) war,\ that suoh expectation \de- stroys the movement for .peace,\ and that in atomic war there will be no survivors.\ Passing over. the definite pea{le- time value of .CD as an emergency organization, it seems to be the worst sort of ostracism not tC> consider war a possibility when both major powers are engaged in a race to build ICBMs which, whatever the \defensive\ inten- tions of the builders, are the most aggressive weapons. the world has ever known. Fm• years Ameri- cans have been criticized for xwt feeling the imrnenCity of world war fostered by the space age. ·Their let's-than-adequate participa- <09-nlintled f.rom Page 4) New Yooi\k Post staff writer Fern ary. B'\lt the White House failed of Wisconsin, allows for ·ihe un- Mar;ja, whose reports on West to point out that the allocation limited dissemi_nation of ~e~erall Virginia p.r.inted \n the Po$t, h-ave· for each famHy was so small, that surp~us crops m West vu~gm!a. resulted m two van loads of food it often ran out before the month Humphrey contends that the fed- being sent to t)le area by the pea- did. Nor did it note that it is not era! .government would not be pte of New York City. :Reporter· unusual for the ohildren in ,the.Se injuring the .retail fo~;~d btisin.ess Marja. responded in reference· to. families to live• Qil one ·meal· a because the desolate West Vir- . the st&ten:ient, \Perhaps the only' day-'-aiJ.d .that meaL consists ginians are unable to buy food · 1·eply to the statement by the· chiefly of potatoes.'; · · anyway. Still another attractive President on West Virginia is,. feature of the measure is that it ·Have you b!le'h the)'e, Jll(r. Presi- · \I w'ish that President Eisen- would decrease our astronomical dent? - • hower coilld taik to Mrs. Bill food storage costs. Hug)lart apd hear het say 'one J. Albert, Walter H. Casey, Pa1,1l Stephen JI.I. Zimmerman., senior G. Cohen, John M. Ferguson, Ken- Division I major, was awarded neth s. Hoyt, Edward c. Ruth,. 'I1le William F. Allen Essay Prize, Jr., and Joel D. Ticknor. This week, the Whit(l House is- \The very material assistance week we lived~ on leftovers the sued ·a belated statement main-~ citecl in the sta;tement diminishes 900k seiit from the .Appalachian· ta1ning that much was being done. considerably wheh you're on the Bible Sc•hoC>!'.\ while The And1•ew W. Archibald Prize for the Seni01· in the divi- sion of Humanities \vith the higlt- est scholastic standing went to Peter J . .Steinglas~. Three inter- collegiate debating awards, The George Allison prizes, wet·e awarded as foliows: Arnold R. Klappas, $50; Paul M:. Baltay, $35; and J. Lawton MotTison, Jr., $25. ::;enior James E. Anderson, and Sophomore Theodore F. Reta- jczyl{, Jr., received Robert M. Fuller Prizes for excellence in Chemistry. The Mr. - and Mrs. Marks Frankel Pnze fur excel· lence in the college Religion courses went to sophomore :.Jut- thew S. Loewen~tein, while Law- rence I. Bt·ll,;on rec·eiH·d tlw $1<1( HoLed M. Brady award. M. John Lu betkm ::;hared the• hono1· of the Janle~ GooJneh Alexander Duane Debatlllg uwarJ wtth TtcknDl. J ub n H. Adarns t·ecetvcd the Charles .B. Hurd Prize. Art Pri!zP Awarde-d Two prizes, one awarded for ex- cellence in the Fine Arts, thc· other for excellence m the Apprc· ciation of Music, were present<!d to Roger Semerad and Browne M. Littel, re><pecti vely. as the Charles Alexandel' Rtchmond Prizes. Peter Y. Su3sman re· ceived honol'frble mention in the t'ield of music. The $100 Robert G. O'Neil Prize fo.r the highest standing in the cla~sic::; was given to Charles Y. Small. Lewis T. Buckman received the Warner King Prize, awarded to the Senior in engineering who ha., contributed most to the tradition and ideals C>f the College. The Elias Peissner Prize. German books, was presented to George E. Bryant. David Meager re- ceived the Daniel F. Pullman along with Donald Larson. This prize is given to t\I.:O seniors, one with the highest scholastic stand- ing in Humanities, the other to a similar student in Engineering. Senior Stephen M. Zimmerman was awarded the Eugene I. Yudis Prize, awarded to the student wl\o has produced the best piece of creative writing. .Melvin S. Ein- horn recetved honot·able mention. Joel A. Teisch was recognized for outstanding work in the field of Botany by the $75 Edith Emilee i4acCoy Prize. A new $350 Modetn Language Summer Travel Fellowship was awarded to .. ophC>rnore Paul V. Turner. Turner is majoring in Humanities. The James Henry Turnbull Pl'ize for sophomore ex- cellence in Physics was shared this year by J·ames F. De{'ker and Darryl D. Coon. George D. Thompson and Rob- et't E. Jourdain each received the $450 Ralph W. Stearns Prize for the design and con~tructlon of a new piece of teaching eq_uip- ment. Character Honored The Horatio Warner Cup, awat·ded to the Senior B.A. stu- dent with the highest standing while sustaining a high personal character, was presented to Paul E. O'Neil, Jr. Ronald E. GinsbUI'g received the Lee '\Vrubel PriZ<' for the most outstanding senior preparing for the fields of medi- cine and dentistry. Scholarships awarded were as follows; James P. Carroll receivt>d the RCA scholarship, sustained by gifts from the Radio Corpora- tion of America; the Western Electnc schC>lan.;hip went to Vic· Jay Albe-rt Cited Albet·t, a mecha!1ical engineer- . tion in·Ci;vil Defense activities has ing- major. has served as a mem- ·testified, not to any burgeoning bet· of the St-udent Council, the \peace movement,\ but to national lnterftatez·mty Council, and the apathy toward the whole ques- College's student chapter of the tion of war. How ~an agitation American Soc.ety of Mechanical fat• peace begin 'before the threat Engine<'F:S. Recently he was of war is recognized. Further- chairman of the Student Council more, if the possibility of war is -- -IFC Joint Committee on Defer- acknowledged, should the passive red Rushing. Casey, an English act C>f sheltering 'self be the. first major, has served as a member item to be done away With in the of the Student Council, Student crusade for peace? Bom·bs, not Tax CommitteE'. th£> Interfratpr·- bomb shelters, are the tools with nity Council. thL• DPlphic Society, which war is waged. Radiation, the At·nC>ld :\ir Sncipty and thr our demonstrators claim, will de- Glee Cluh. stroy all humanity. No one is \ Cohen has :;,•nnl a:; Statton sure of this, though it may well I ~lanag<'r ot WRUC, a m<'mber of be true. But, if this is the case, . IFC and Student Council. He wa, should not such defense against I radiation as we can make still I be the last defense done away with instead of the first. As long a·s radiation ! or bacteria) pro- ducing weapons exist anywhere in the world should we not re- serve the right to protect our- selves. \\\t\tan· of the Jutnt Cummtttee un Husi1.ng. Fl'l ~usun ha< l.eld the j.w::;zttun ul :::.LL'l ctary of the $tudent Cuunell fuz tlte pu:>l year, and Hoyt has been the council's repres<!ntattve m charge of the NattonaJ Student Association. Cornn1encemPnt \Stage\ ap- pointments. r<'cognition 'fm· out- standing >cholaf'tic accomplish- ment. were conferred upC>n the eighteen top men in the senior class. Th<' academic leaders have all compiled numerical averages of better than 4.000 out of a pos- sible 5.000 du!'ing their four years at the cC>llege. Those honored W<'re as follows: Barry J. Hoffer, Donald M. Lar- son, Robert B. Whitson, John E. Edinger, JC>el D. Ticlmor, Paul E. O'Neil. Jr .. Lewis T. Buckman, II, Peter J. Steinglass, Joseph R. Buckley. Gary F. Stein, Benjamin Falcigno, Stephen M. Zimmerman, Melvm J. KC>rdon, Bruce D. Walsh, Bernard S. Strauss, Lynn H. Ratner, Jorge Leon. and Lewis :.1. Drusin. \Stage\ appointees is a term carried over from the past when the academic leaders of the grad- uating class actually occupied places on the commencement plat- form. Also awarded during the prize day ceremonies were student activity keys, presented to juniors and seniors whC> have actively participated in extracurl'icular ac- tivities. A nwck GE Colleg-e Bowl pro- gram will be held next Thursday, May 12, at 4:30P.M. in Old Chapel. The ten finalist candidates for the team; will oppose each (J.ther. All t!J.ose interested are invited to attend. .. Professor Edgar Curtis will de- lh·er a Iectu.reJ on the topic \()<m- temporary 1\lusic-Was It Ever Necessary?\ at the faculty collo- quim on Wednesday, May 11, 1960, at 4 P.M. in Room 202 of Bailey Hall. If we wish to attack war at its foundations, must we not sum- mon the courage to .deal with the problem C>f the presently existing large quantities of weapons of aggression; and with the very real problem of an economy · which, at this time, would su:ffer dangerous collapse if defense needs ceased to take it's produce? And, most important, must we not solve the problem of the basic cause of all war, human nature? Critics of our generation have said the problems of our time are too big for us to handle. If they are correct, all the protests we can organize will do us no good. If they are wrong, and I believe they are, we had best not take the bull by the tail but look for the ring in his nose. George E. Ward, Jr. '60 Presidential Advisor on U. S. Latin American relations·, Profes- sor Dana G. Munro, will speak in Old Cha.pel at 7:30 P.M. Wednes- ~ay, May 11. The program will be presented by the International Relations Club. One point chapel cretlit. ACME Barber Shop 509 'UN'ION ST. \Where fhe Service is a pleasure\ Near the Campus DIAMANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A Place to G.o fo Relax Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily I 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREEt Diamonds . ., • Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 WHAT D'YA HEAR IN THE BEST OF CIRCLES? r a aroun One good round deserves another. So enjoy a round of Schaefer after your game. This beer has a smooth .round taste......- never sharp, neverflat. It's REAl BEER •.• America's Oldest Lager Beerl THE F. & M. SCHAEFER BR.EWIN (( 00., NEW V0.8K and ALBANY, N. V, { II • Set FarE Pa~ VOL. 89, Uni( Six( Thi~ \At th able num dergtadu lesser nu dents the to sched1 semester mer,\ st: Director Div-ision History .. The cot tively plar the six we to July 2! tory 32a, · French la Allen note delete an· subscribe~ sons. Tu credit hot be given evening f those whc the daytir In. add and Socii any quali there w courses c Science past. ThE sections llb give1 program. Thus fE have air• the sumn 1 and 2 Director be teach' the Univ• land, as program John Ha lege to t: \If the successf1l ously co: a more E future,\ Spr Cit« \I fe, this pE can be thusias of the this w HoulihE Junior added i very fa the au( In SUI Hmilihai Joyce 1 Beta Tl Union c1 his '1'ig metnora:l night in said tha livered . audiencE favorabl The i at $3,70• than prt lihan co port wa: the clas put deei that sir success£ of futu; entertai .ful calc has lost end. The : Records be the coming appeat• May 22 biiee M Origil on the 19, Un: JWie 5 eitlter : l)~e ~

1960 ''Yes, Febru- failed that month is not .the,Se a Eisen- Bill 'one the I Senior Sports Farewell Reviewed Page 2 Page 5 Founded at Union College in 1877 VOL. 89, No. 2 1 5 'SCH'EN'EC:T~D.Y, ·N. Y., 'FR~iDJlY, MAY 13, 1960 PRICE TEN CENTS Union Offers Six Courses This Summer Oratorical 'Contest Chapel Plan Student Council Views . ApprovedB-, Discriminatory Action College Staff By Howard si·egel \At the Tequest of a size- able number of evening un- dergl•aduate students and lesser number of other stu- dents the college has decided to schedule a series of one semester courses this sum- mer,\ stated Neal W. Allert, Director of the Evening Div-ision and Professor of History.. By Alfred sonuner Faced with the question of racial discrimination the The new Chapel Program Student Council passed a motion to send telegrams e~tab­ that was announced tenta- lishing its position opposing seg-regration to New York · tively by the Concordy ear- --- ~state Congressmen. and lier this year, has b-een A • tabled a motion to take ac- . passed. A formal plan has mertcan tion against discriminatory been drafted by the \Lee- clauses in fraternity consti- tures and Concerts Commit- RelationS tutions at their meeting last tee\ and approved by :Pr€si- Tuesday evening at 7:30. dent Davidson. Under the Discussed Telegrams were sent to New new plan there will be ap- IV York Senators, Jacob Javitz and P roximut~l'' ten formal pro- Kenneth Keating, and Congress- The courses which are tenta- tively planned to be given during the six week period: from June 21) to July 29 are English 16a. His- tory 32a, Mathematics 3a and 4a, J man Sam Stratton. These tele- gTams per ~emester, at least grams officially stated Union SlX of Which must be .at· College's position in favor of anti tended. s~gregation civil rights legisla· French la, and Ger-man la or lOa·. Of the ten scheduled events, six Allen,noted that ~he colleg: would I~- ........... ..,.,_ .... ~ .. ,...... will be college convocations, while delete. any course that \\as no.t Joel D. Ticlmor (H.-ht) and B<'rnard S. Strauss ·(Jnft) ar<' the remaining four will be dl\~ided Ubsc b d t b t lea t t Pel \' ,- equall'' between lectur<'s and con- I s . l'l e .. o Y ~ s en - shown during the BlatchfOI·d speaking contes-t in Tupsday's J j sons: TUltlon Will be $ 35 P?r chapel. Ticknor was the .winner of the oratorical award while certs. cred~t ho~r and th~J c~mrses Will Strauss was the rwmer-up. The convocations will be fifty 1 be g1ven m the late afternoon or minutes long at the max!rn1.llll evening for the convenience of·· ancP-a.ll students will be expected i~~s~a~~~:.m be working during Ticknor w· 'l·ns Blatllfl.h ford: ~~ut::rsc~~~u~g 1:~i~~sthe ;~~I IlL , of ·one of the hour classes for I In. addition to the Hwnanity s N that day. Although they 1vill and Social Study courses which ·trau· ss . amed R·unner up normally be held at 11:0() .A.M., any qualified student may take, . . .· · · · · ~ , · • · . the days will be so alternated. and 1 , there will be those science B M 1 E te• ·the class hours rearranged, so tb.at Courses 0 - ffered by the NatJ·o·nal · Y e ps m , J ' ff d no one clas·s will chronically suf- Science Foundation as in the \ Ust as e ective lea ership is needed Oil the national . fer by it. Even though tlle con-! past. The~'e may also be makeup level, it is also needed on the campus,\ said Joel D. Tick- vocations will be in the morning-, sections of Mathematics 4b and nor, winner of this years Blatchford oratorical award, in the conce1ts and lectures wi11 re- 11b given during the six week Tuesday chapel. ~ main as evening events, and. will program. not be campus centered, but ai:m- competl .tl·on for the Blatchfoi·d worst possible taste.\ Strauss ed to attrant the '\\wnspeople as Thus far thirty or forty persons v · w have already shown interest in av:ard is presently o_pen to the cited \a cer-tai:n car-bonated bev- well. f I · twenty hig·hest ranking Sen 1 ·ors. erage which no:J longer quenches the summer program o Div s1on th· t b t Twelve Convocations Sehed.uled b t . These men are J'nv-I'ted to speak your Jrs • u makes you 'Young 1 and 2 courses y contac mg d f · d h · 1 t f 11 on any topic ·and to pt•esent 1·t 1·n an · air and e bonalr,' and a pop- During the year, then, therE will be twelve College Convoca.tlons. These would include, <Jp-.ening Convocation, Founders Day-, the Blatchford Oratorical .Contest, and the Prize Day Programs. In addition, there would be several annual convocational events. NeKt semester these will be cD'Illprised of the following; Director Allen, w o Wli nex a · 1 d h C 11 f any manner.- The Blatchford u ar etergent w ich appeals to pe teaching at Kings o ege o h · lt.h th b S t competi.tion was previously he·ld ousewJves w e o vious sex- the University of Aberdeen, co - 1 b 1· f h at commencement but no-w has ua sym 0 lsm 0 a :big strong land, as part of the exc ange · - t 1 b · M been instituted as part of the reg- man commg :.n ° 'c ean your P rogram which will ~ rmg r. h · · t · t \ H C 1 Ular Chapel Program. The medals ouse m JUS a. mmu e. e con- John Hargreaves pf Kings o- t' d b 1 t• wer.e converted to a $75 first prize mue Y P 0 r:J. mg out that not lebo-e to the Union campus. a h '- 'th t \b and a $50 second prize. This n our goes ·.,y Wl ou our e- year's judges were Messrs. Gilbert ing exposed to gra.,phic illustra- HarloW, Samson o. A. unman tions of duty wrinkled girdles, and Eugene Wine. 'drip dry und-erpants and even \If the summer program proves successful the college will seri- ously consider the possibility of· a more extensive program in the future,\ concluded Allen. phantom bosoms floating in the air, able to ,roove freely thanks to the wondedul efficiency of a three-way action brassiere that 1) a Trustee ·Convocation o:n <Jc- tober 2~. 2) a Convocation at which the Congressional opponents •. Bam Stratton and Clyde Wright, will debate; in early OdO'lJer. Spring Prom Cited Success Mr. Ticknor discusssed the pres- ent fight for-racial equality. He stated that \it is by the interven- tion of a new force that the old status quo is altered and a new one- created. Only a. force can change the conviction of the seg- regationists and the purveyors of hateful prejudice. And only peo- ple can exercise force in this con- flict.\ He emphasized .that al- though \non-violent resistance is a powerful movement,\ some- thing else is needed which will \pull by persuasion rather than push by compulsion.\ Ticknor ex- plained that \the President of the United States is the one key fig- ure who can use the tremendous moral power of the presidency to pull forward by persuasion, to praise and spur onward people of good will on both sides, and to c.on<;lep:m hate peddlers.\ lets you breath.\ Increased Intlignaticm Necessary Sl a Convocation at whicl {)scar Handlin, professor of h.istory \I feel that the success of this past Spring Weekend can be attributed-to the en- thusiasm and participation of the student body during this weekend,\ said Peter Houlihan, chairman of the Junior Prom committee. He added that the Hi-Lo's were very favorably impressed by the audience's reaction. In summing up tl:)e weekend, Houlihan announced that Miss Joyce Underwood, representing Beta Theta Pi won the Miss Union contest. Stan Rubin and his Tiger Town _ {ive gav~ a· metnora:ble performance Fnday night in Meinori.al Chapel. Th.ey said that they couldn't have de- livered such a fine show if the audience reaction hadn't been so favorable. Must Enadicate Cancer \Unfortunately however,\ said Ticknor, \the present occupant of 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue be- lieves in local solutions to so-call· ed Io·cal problems and we can ex· r-ect little or no moral support from this genial man on a little issue like eradicating the cancer- ous sore of racial discrimination from the American scene.\ The prom's budget, estimated at $3,700, was somewhat higher than previous prom budget. Hou- Ticknor then extrapolated the lihan commented that if the sup- national problem to the Union port was not as strong as it was, College campus. \We have fra- the class of '61 could have been ternities on this campus with re- put deeply into the red. He noted sttktive racial and religious that since this venture was so clauses. Censure this .prnctice! successful, there is the possibility Expunge the clauses! Racial big- of future high budget, top-rate- otry shonld not and can not be entertainment proms. After care- condoned at Union College.\ He .ful calcuiations, the J.unior ,Class closed by urging the Stud'ent has lost $350 on the Prom Week- Council to act.. end. Strauss Discusses Taste The Brothers Four, Coiumbia Records, top recording group, will The other speaker of the day Strauss conc:luded. by stJ,essing that an increase of official in- dignation coupled_ with the real- ization by the sponsors that the buying public will not respond favorably toward products which jar their senslt.ivLties, might bring us to the point where common sense and go~ taste will govern the selection of television com- mercials. at Harval'd will speak- Supplementing the ' ~onvoca­ tions, will be two major lectu.res, and two relatively min<Jr ones, spaced tl:n'o.nghout the year. The remaining fou1· vacancies, will be filled by the Concert series. The religious ·programs, a:3 -well as the Frida.y night Cla.ssies Ser- ies, will no longer award chapel credits under the new pla.n. Finn Receives Degree The Right Reverend Monsignor Jolm J._Finn, P.2stor of St. John the Evangelist Church in Schenectady, will be awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws d1.1dng Union's 161).th annual com-• mencementexercises on Sun- d~ mbrning, May 29th. Monsignor Fiii:ri is a prominent civic leader in Schenectady. On preYious occasions he has served as Chairman of the Community Ohest Campa.ign and Chairman of the initia! campaign for St. Charles Hos]lital. Recently, he worked witt. the Schenectady youth by se1;virig a.s Chairman of the Junior Achievement l'li~arlCilll Program .. Mb nsignor is a member of several Ch.am,ber of Commerce committees and is supporting the GUTS organization which is at- tempting to bring financial pros- perity to SC!t·ehectady. REV. JOHN J. FINN tion. The Committee on Racial Equality presented the following 1 m?lio.n censuring fraternity con· slJtutwns containing discrimina- tory clauses; DANA G. MUNRO By Leonard Blwnin Dr. Dana G. Munro, a member of the Advisory Committee on Inter-Ameri- can Affsirs, delivered a lec- ture on \The United States and Latin America\ in a program sponsored by the International Relations Club. His extemporaneous talk was given in Old Chapel on Wednesday evening, May 11. Dr. Munro, a professor of Latin American History at Princeton University, ha.S had a career that has brought him into intimate contact with Latin American Countries. In 1914 he observed conditions in Central American Countries under the sponsorship of the Carnegie Peace Endow- ment. Munro's remarks were centered around the relations between the United States and the Latin Amer- ican countries during the last thirty years. He began by dis- -cussing the amity that existed during the Thirties and the Sec- ond World War, and its subse- quent decline after the war. He explained how many internal crises and dissatisfactions in Latin American countries \offered the Communists a chance to in- tensify their propaganda\ in those areas. Relations Ameliorated \We the member:; of this com- mittee believe that fraternities having restrictive clauses in either their local or national con- stitution, are not operating in sympathy with the principles of racial equality supported by the Stl•.dent Council of Union College. And we therefore move that these fraternities retaining such restrictive clauses not be allowed to maintain local chapters at Union College, and that inquiries be made by the Student Council to determine what measures must be taken to implement the above motion.\ Aimed at Natlcmals Speaking for his motion, Peter Steinglass, chairman of the com- mittee, stressed that the motion was not aimed specifically at in- dividual local fraternities on cam- pus. Rather, the proposal was meant to oppose practices pres- ent in the national ·constitutions of several fraternities. This mo- tion, if passed, would allow local fraternities, forced to abide 'by their national's regulations al- though not necessarily in accord with these rules, to take a posi- tive move to have these clauses abrogated. .Sceptically, Bix MacMillan quesfloned the right of the Stu- dent Council to support such a severe motion when the discrim- (Continued on Page 6) Linguist P ei Will Lecture Munro mentioned the many things that were done and are being done to alleviate the gov- ernmental problems of our South- ern neighbors and to ameliorate our relations w-ith them, such as the Inter-American Bank, com- modity price control, loans, in- vestment of private capital, and the establishment of a six-man Advisory -Committee on :):nter- American Affairs, of which he is a member. Dr. Mario A. Pei, a profes- sor of Romanee Philology at Columbia University, will speak in Old Chapel Friday evenin.~t at 8 :30 P. M. His talk on \Languages in the Modem World\ is being sponsored by the language department. It 't\s 'been said that, with the possi.ble exception of one mem- ber of the United· Nations Secre- tariat; Mario Pel reads, speaks and understands more languages than any living man. Among the rr-ore important languages which he speaks are EnglU.h, French, Italian, German, Dutch, Czech. Romanian, Spanish, Portuguese and Russian. Born in Rome, Italy, he was educated in the United States, re- ceiving his A.B. degree from City C'ollege and a Ph. D. from Colum- bi\·· Professor Pei first taught at City College from 1923 to 1937 and since has been on the faculty of Columbia University. Munro, as a member of the Ad- visory Committee, accompanied P1·esident Eisenhower on his re- cent trip to several Latin Ameri- can 'Countries. \No one,\ he said, \who saw the ct·owds that turned out could miss feeling that we still have ft•iends in Latin Amer- i-ca.\ Contrasting Eisenhower's trip with Nixon's less fortunate visit last year, he attributed the lack of hostile demonstration to the Communists' fear of creating abject public opinion. \The little Incidents that did occur during Eisenhower's visit were utterly in- Among the best ·lmown of his more than 2() books are The Story of Language, The World's Chief Languages and Getting Along in . • . in six. different languages). ---o--- be the feature attraction for the and' winner of the second prize coming Fall Prom. They will of $5() was Bernard S. Strauss. appeat' on .the Ed Sullivan Show ]l,[r. Stra.uss discussed the bad May 22 and the Ford AU-Star Ju- taste used in the selection of cer- bilee May 24. ta!n· T. V. commercials. He stated ___ 0 that by the \limitation of time and funds, the advertiser has been .Originally scheduled. to wppear . forced to make the most of every on the GE' (1()Uege B<~wl on. Jwte·· available moment of air time 19, Union '\V:Ilt now appear on both to discuss and to ·dramatize his product. The result has been JWie 5. Our op:ponents will he a constant barrage of irritating eitlter Rntge:rs, Douglas, Antioch. commercials presented at the Dlilte or Michigan. best possible hours and in the A Glens Fa:i!s native, Monsignor Finn was gr-aduated from Holy Cross College in 1907. He pre- pared for tl1e prlesthcod at pun- woodie Sem ina.ry in YonkeJ'S. After- he was ordained at the Cathedral in Albany, 1!}10, he tered Catllolic University Washington for two years graduate study. Father Firm has been associ- -ated with Churches in this area since 1912. rn that year he was appointed Assistant Pastor of St. Peters Cln::~rch in Sar.a.toga Springs. Sltice that time, signor bas served as \~;ct. Pastor of Sacr-ed Heart Church in Albany, ~nd as Pastor of St. significant. There was no evi- Patriel!:'s Chureh in St. Johns- dence of the widespread Anti- ville, St. Peter's Church i.n Still· Americanism that does exist.\ water, St. Mary's ·Clm:rch in Munro concluded with, \I don't 'Gloversville, St. James Church in t-hink that any program of mas- Chatham, and St. Helen's Church sive aid is the answer. I'd like in Schenectady. In 1946 he was to see the amount of aid increase appointed Monsignor and became somewhat, 'but more important is PastQcr of St. John the Evangelist the way in which the aid is han· Church in Schenectady_ ·died.\ The Women's Staff Association and The Faculty Ladies' Ciu'b of Union College are sponsoring the raising of a fund to be used as an endowed cash pTize, awarded annually, in memory of Miss Francis Travis. It will be known as \The Francis Travis\ prize. Contributions may be made to Miss Sarah Fleming in the Busi- ness Office of the Administra- tion Building.

z Published Fridays during the school year by tile Student Body or Union College, SchenectadY, N. Y. National Advertising Rep- resentative: National Advevtis- tng Service, lno., College Pub- lishers Repxesentative, 420 :Mad- Ison Ave., N. Y. C. .l:lldltOl'iai Office, Washbui·n Hall, I.;nion College, Publication Of- fice,. The Gazette ·Press, 334 State St. Entered In the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Cla.~s Mail Matter, subscription lOc a copy; $2 a year delivered anywhere In the Uni-ted States. Don't Do Tomorrow • • • '· -{- '. In its 'final meeting, the Student Council climaxed a year of concerted action against racial and religious dis- crimination by not taking a firm or positive stand against discrimination as it exists at Union. The same Council that censured ·the action of Tennessee municiple officials .\ ... ,_,.,,,:,,, 1 ::.,, •• lllU~@1 1 ~ against the anti-segregation sit down strikes and sanction- ed a student demonstration in Tt·oy opposing segregation, voted last Tuesday evening· to table a motion calling for the deletion of discriminatory clauses in fraternity consti- tutions. In this same column last year, it was stressed that a fraternity must contribute to the maturity and growth of the student by exposing him to a wide variety of ideas and pet·sonalities. A fraternity which retains a discriminatory clause inhibits this growth and in effect stunts it. !?=======::::::::::::========-· · Th~atre Review Heroes and Sinners ,, !' By Lp.wrence Lente:hner The French film,. Heru18fi. and Shm.ers, which can now be seen at the :::J,cotia Art Theatre, can be most aptly described as self- confused. It has .the beauty of an almost amateur directional approach, i. e., simplicity as con- trasted to spectacular, ·blit simul- taneously attempts to bring to the viewer a sociologic~;~;!- study of modern: Africa. The plot is com- posed 'Of. a series of inter-relating basic situa~ions, eaoh a :tnoying st;mdar<l. However, the ,same -ef~ feet 4s reached in both plot and direction. A .group -of simplici, ties, no matter how well done, cannot add up- to a complete cov- erage in a 92 minute -produ.ction. Tb,e one c:ohslstently {)onvincin . portt.ayal Is done by Gert F'roeb .. A supporting role, .(a fat, .!deali.• lie slOib,) ·becomes the one p.q1: erful character and it :js :M . Froebe'11 mOvements which pr .. d'uce his success. There are many and mot! problems ·preS:ented .by thi.s c:' ema prod-uction. On a sociologil, basis tlre racia;l question js .pa• . mount. Intermarriage and int extra.marita,l relations are ~X.poaed to the viewer almost iminediateJy, most likely in an :;tttempt to shock. As the film develops, the qu.eBti:on pr<>ceeds, also, 'but then suddenly ha!ts. A solution is 11ever• reach- ed1 one wonders lf ·it is of any value to present a problem, de- velop it and then reveal no an~ swer. The clauses which pl'esently bind six Union fratern- ities to racial and religious intolerance were put into their national (not local) constitutions over one )lundred years ago. In time, ideas change; prejudices present a century ago seem unimportant in a world bent toward interna- tional cooperation and peace. and so should seem insigni- ficant at I;nion. Ideas such as these are antiquated and should be eliminated in the most lasting and expedient A/Farewell Letter Yves Montand, who portrays the role of an eK-World War II pilot, Is convincing in his acting if noth- ing else. He appears as a Spartan Individual; raised on a diet Of war, unable to exist witllout a rna,tial narcotic,. yet .of Athenian principles. While .he carries his basic personality well, h:e does not succeed in his relations with his love, Marif!. Felix. Exeept for a sing!~ beach scene which is well done, he seems too rigid and una.ffecti.onate for what is ~bestow­ ed upon hi!in. Miss Felix's ad- vances seem un'beHeving as she has been given no antagon·izatlo-n, and she is not. the prototype of a love\hungi:'y woman. Tlre native Africans. are por- trayed in three stages of civiliza- tion, a:ll ·apparently l)nsatlsfac:- tory. The first is the cornmon.'ly believed p!\ototype of a happy, ignorant and f.un•loving people who are content in fhei!\ aninial~ -like life. Their opposite are What might 'be termed pseudo-white\ negroes, attempting to fof}ow .a false •'C0!1Ception of wl)at Euro- pean culture has to offer. The third stage falls somewhere •be- tween the other two. Examples are repeatedly gi:ven to negroes unable to escll;pe from tl):ejr P!-'iin- 'itive emotions. In. one of the most flagrant renditions of this t:heory, Henry, the negro husband of Nina, loses all sophistication and cannot help himself from joining a ritual-like dance. The only im- p1ication that can be dra:w:n. is manner. In the past year, the Student Council has become aware uf national student problems and has taken an ac- tive pal't in making- ib opinion::; known. It is unfortunate that the Council has not followed that lead to completion by pressuring the national fraternities to remove ideas of prejudice ft·om their codes. The problem of discriminatory fraternity clauses is nut unique al l'nio11. Student g-overnment groups on other campuses have taken positive action against such clauses as far back as 19;}-1 when the Undergraduate Council-In- tet·-Fraternity Counl'il of Dartmouth declared that all na- tional fraternities must either d1·op discriminatory clauses or become local by April 1, 1960. Since that time, student groups on .campuses all over the country have taken sim- ilar action. Wesleyan and Williams, for example, have made the same stipulation as Dartmouth. Action such as this must ~ome from the student bodv. As successive col- leges act in this manner, the p1·essure which will even- tually cause the nationais to drop these clauses will in- crease. Cnion too must join this nationwide opposition through its student body. The Student Council and Inter- fraternity Council must adopt a plan parallel to Dart- mouth's. Critics of the motion which was presented at Tuesday's meeting have stated that it was harshly worded. Had the Stuclent C'ounril anticipated a pr&blem of wording, the mo- tion would have been introduced before the last meeting. It seems unfortunate that a problem as serious as this one was not brought before the Council several weeks ago, thus allowing adequate time to replu·ase the proposal into an acceptable form. However, time was not allowed; the mo- tion appears to have been presented in a hurried, not well thoughtout form and therefore was tabled. It is important now that the Council is aware of the problem, that the motion not be dropped completely from the Council's agenda during the summer recess but be re- intt·oduced and reconsidered at the earliest possible meet- ing next September. With rushing deferred until second semester, the Council will have an opportunity whiGh Con- cordy hopes will not be neglected. A positive stand must be taken in time to g·ive the incoming freshmen an equal op- portunity to join any one of Union's seventeen fraternities. . To the Class of '60 The Concordiensis would like to take this opportunity to offer its congratulations to the graduating class of 1960. \1\' e are confident your future accomplishments will be a credit to Union. Letters To The Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: ~ The Student Council is very tunity to thank you once a~ain much concerned that in some in- for the superlative pel\formance stances this year full and ade- that you staged at Union College. quate coverage of the Council I'm sure that you must have been meetings has 'be(>n lacking. a ware of the tremendous hit you Areas which were of special made. I have never olbserved concern to the Concordiensis were such unbounded {l.Udience reaction repo1·ted very well, but many at any other Union College con- items which should have been pre- cert. sented to the student body were I also want to personally thank omittC'd. you for being so cooperative and Realizing that the Concordiensis unselfish in your dealings with is probably the main channel of us. Your extension of the per- communicatio.n between Student formance helped to preserve the Government and the student body, integrity of the prom ·committee we hope that in the future this and the college. Our agent, :!3ud coverage will be more complete. Torrini, had grossly mislead us Edward 0. Ruth '60 into believing that your group * -x- -~ was the single, twa-hour attrac- To the Editor of Coneordiensis: tion. We advertised the program Enclosed Is a letter which I am as such. There were a few anx\ sending Gene Puerling, the leader ious moments at the beginning of the Hi-Los. of the program as the audience Dear Mr. Puel'ling, grew impatient in their wait for I would like to take .this oppor- (Continued on Page 6). Union College has shown gen- uine signs of working towards a positive and creative tomorrow in the fou1· very short years since I entered. And these achivements such as Deferred Ru~hing, free cuts for upprclassmen, a super- ior college newspaper, a very praise-worthy art and music rcn- assiance, and a more ambitious academic program which includes ma.jor field Clmills and project courses have been accom-plished b~· more than a few enlightened, industrious and courageous mem- bet'S of tl'te college community. This last year has been one of especially significant growth, and, now that I am -leaving, it becomes important to me to make a final statement of encouragement to those who still have undergrad- uate years available to them to build Union College into what many of us feel she can be. This is not to exclude the faculty, ac;I- ministration and trustees from their r<>le, but theirs is a differ- ent media than the students. One of the first tasks ·to· be undertaken at Union-in my esti- mation-is a more aware ;public relations job. Rowan Wakefield has done much with such projects as the View-book and special events at the college. But 'public relations should also be carried on in and amongst .the college community so that all of us be- come cognizant and understand- ing of what the c-ollege is doing. In this manner we may all have the opportunity to contribute to the growth of Union-so that we may all have the opportunity to contribute to the growth of Union-so that we may have a share in making Union College what we wish it to be. If South College is to be a new kind of dorm complete with recreation facilities, then the students should know about it, offer their ideas and prejUdices so that those in a position of authority will be that much better prepared to do the most effective planning. We should be made more aware of the historacity of Union, and this awareness will give us a bet- ter indication of where we are going and why. It is this writer's hope that the Public Relations Office will a:vail itself of future opportunities to constantly kee·p the students informed of the col- lege's continued evolution. With the Deferred Rushing fi'n- ally coming into reality after the diligent work of Bob Pfeiffer and Leo Dunn (and many others who agitated for such a plan for years previous) the faculty and admin- istration are presented with a marvelous opportunity to develop through the Class of '64 a college community spirit of active in- tellectualism and social responsi- bility. The divisionisin fostered by the fraternities and an ind-e- pendent group will he delayed~ not long enough for fraternities, vl'hich C!lill be positive in attitude, to be damaged, but long enough so that fratern1ties will have their role translated into one which will allow for community wel- fare. The faculty will have a full semester in which to further emphasize the role of academics in the college experience. This is something whi'ch should be taught, especially to freshmen. The familiar insct!ption in He• brew around the Li.brary dome points to this necessity too. The administration cart provide for college sponsored social events which Will attract students, sup- plem£lntin.g the social life which has been provided by the ftatern• ities during the f-ir.st ·semester <nnd perl).aps the .administration, with a ·student committee, ceuld continue the programming for the whole year)·. The administration, located in that tight gap bet'lv,een students and the Trustees, has a difficult task which more than frequently goes unrewarded. The appoint- ment of a dean .of students was a IC>gical and right step to bridge this gap. Unfortunately, Dean Pollack ha.S not been able to gain the confidence of many who should offer thls trust to him. With the graduation of the Cl~~-Ss of '60 per)1aps this situation will be remedied, and a firmer liason between administration, students and Trustees wiU be accom- plished. The Trustees are ultimately 're- sponsible for what happens at Union College-and this is no mean burden. However, I feel that conBervatism is not the best possible philosoJ}hy of leadership, and this apparently has been the policy of the Trustees. While an attitude of conservatism can be justified on many points, it does not provide for dynamic growth, and it is dynamic gr-owth which Union needs in order to take its rightful place among the leading institutions of higher education in the United States. Positive steps have been taken on many occ.a.sions by the Trus- tees; for instance, they recently have submitted to committee the concept of a Flne Arts center and an expanded .fine arts pro- gram -at Union. Good things are being done, and many more need to be done. We can not realist- ically expect to become a Har- vard, and we should not try to l,>ecome a little Harvard. We are not equipped for the \big league\ but there are many areas in which we can exert our- selves with the inspired guidance and aid of a forceful, crea,tive body of Trustees .. Perhaps the Trustees would find it profitable to meet with a group .o-f students once in a while in order to give themselves a closer contact with certain problelll!l which the dis- tance of trusteeship leaves them ignorant. The Student Council has, in recent months, tried to come to grips with some real problems; eg., deferred rushing, integration. However, I think the structure of the Council should l>e radically changed so that more effective action may be ta,ken in the fu- ture. The first step in this direction would be to have direct democ- racy via the use of chapel pro- grams once a month. By insisting upon active student participation in the process of student govern- ment a greater spirit and motiva~ -tion will result with positive ends, especially if the elected leader- ship (which might be a board with a chairman instead of just a president) reacts to its respon- s~bility to the college and to stu- dent needs and per.rogati~ in Curt Jurgens, the headline at- traction, is sterotyped as the sym- pathetic German. It is disappoint- ing that an actor of obvious tal- ent has chosen to continuously recreate a role in which he has already proven· himself. that the negro cannot eseape Which Dsferred Rushing will from his inbreeding, an!l this is present. Freshman will look for totally unacceptable. Concerning guiclance as to their role at war, Hel\·oes and Sinners consid- Union, and without fraternities to ers lbuccolic action as an opiate. provide this guidance, ·,the Coun- However, it is shown -that com- ell has an increased responsibil- radship ls possible, even :;unong lty io gi:ve these new mem.bers of enemies. The one encouraging the Union College community the theme that this film- presents aid and dil:ection they seek. states that mankin4 can conquer Most important of all, the stu-. his warring habits. dent at Union must undergo a Although He1•oes and Sinners is' growth process which will enable not an especially o:vet,powering him to be an intelligent :partLci- production, it is a challen-ge as pant in the immensely complex It presents problems to the view- world in which we all find our, er. Tho.u·gh it does not offer any selves. The problems of the solutions, it is worthwhile view- world; atomic warfare, peace, in' ing. tegration, lalbor relations, democ- racy, leisure time, world heltlth, are not great abstractions, but very real problems and it is · a clear fact that it Is our genera- tion which will need to find the solutions to. these problems. The college experience should provide us with the opportunity of e:~tplor­ ing these dilemnas as well as al- lowing for seif-development. The college experience is not so much to find the answers as l't is to di-scover what are the real ques- tions to ask. If the students at Union consciously seek growth, they should discover that this is a world of opulEmt opportlUllty. Eli B. Enzer, '60 NOW! Thr~ WED. at 7 and S:50 A .Fascinating and Different Adult Film • • • Filmed In Equatorial Africa! \HEROfS.S . Starring S ~ERS\ Curl Jurgens ... Yves Montand and Marla FoliK DIAMANTE Restauran+ and Bor Visit Our New Dining Room A Place to Go to ReJax Opp. The Brownell Gat~ on Nott St. Open. Daily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 to 3 AM. For All Your Paint and Hardware Needs' See Us CAPITO·L PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 730 'STATE ST. Phone FR 4-4123 ~ .......... _ ........ ' ... , L. G. BALFOUR CO. C~R:L SO'RENSEN _ BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEW',Jl:i.BY . J;EA'l~ GIFI'S STATlOl'tlliB.Y - PRoG&AMS <JLUB ENs • KEYS Ml!lDAIS - TOOi>H1ES Write or Call Fraternity Je.wele,..s 171 :Manhall St., ~N.Y. Phone Granite &-7837 :'lll.llllllll111111iiiiUII~II11DIIIiWIIIIi li itllllllllitllllll Ill •1111 1•11111111 11111111! 111.111111111~' ge~;ai~hould at least work to s=.·=: Down to Louis', let us go, __ .. ===_:_\. eliminate ths popularity cotitest · , elections (with unop]ioseci candi- Let the lager freely flow. dates)., an(\ encotire,ges the devel- · opment of political parties. We E:::::·· A unique plate to dine with old European- Atmosphere __ s= .. · should insist that the Council N' IC' H' OLA·us REST' AUR . . work mu~h more clr~ely with the ... · · . .. · · · · ·. . · ·• · . ANT' National! Student AssoCiation and Since 1895 -c.· orner 266 State and- -Er'•e' B'lvd', other students throughout the nation, for the students of today : 1 · will be responsible for tomorrow, ·:s====. ... arge porfi•s crceomm.o·da,ted in our : and we shoult;l place ourselves in · RA. THS·KELL .. ·E R a position to knQW more about the world in which we live~ More specifically, the Council For reser.vations phone FR 4..8917 : should prepare Itself for the t3.13k .111111111111111111111111111111 11111·1··111~ llllliiUIIJIII J I IIIBIIa: lllllllllitlllll 11111•11D111allll~ Friday, The fc print -of Ticknor, win th! Contest. closer in when li word. E ted as i circumst \May These Vi men, wi the 1eg8 as coun< the ba-t through On an of stude significa long ar. Ame-rica of seCO·I chologic -sit-ins : tha.n the ancipati legally ity. ' 1 SE The s pants, Luther pation litigatio is not ( lhe ·par movem1 educate ous sho -who their 1, same· t tra.cting from 01 Negroe~ The< in dem Of tlre ! a .grot though1 pro bien gation ·the So coercioj ial diso 'Wh The 1 emphl;l.f gun to of chaz the w'l live· wi edge t1 to rec< South· terms c This issuer to the '1\he au Sou the left to slowly goal of But course inate t ation? are ce: 'but tr theym Indeed events of IDE and a< la.w st: of eve the st remai1 tion k tomed -

•: I' · F'roeb .. .!de!i.li.• one p.,;n: t :js :M. pr\ mot! thi.s c:· js pa• . int ~x:poaed to shock. qu.eBtion suddenly reach- is of any de- al no an~ are por- civlliza- a happy, people animal~ are What follow .a Euro- fer. ·The •be- Examples negroes P!! iin- the most t:heory, sband of atilm anQ. joining only im- dra:w:n is eseape this is consid- opiate. com- ~ong couraging presents conquer is as the view- offer any view- WED. 8:50 In Jurgens Montand and Marla Folix \'\:\\\1 : ·~ our 111 ............. .. Friday, May 13, 1960 3 ADVERTISEMENT Curtis Holds Colloquium Professor Edgar Curtis1• .•P.:ET.E ; tlte Union College Music De- to attempt to understand one of ·' pa;rtment, addressed a fac• Bartok's · less radical concet\to . . May It Plecrse the Court ·,•-Discriminatio~n Must Go 1 t • movements. This inspiring move- .Joel s. Tlclmor : ulty colloquium on t 1e OPlC ment is; Professor Curtis said, ' '\Contemporary Music-Was much less revolutionary today The following a,rtiGle· is a re·· tion, In the same speed-unless a' It Ever Necessary?\ on than Beethoven's Fifth Symphony print .of the speech that Joel :0, new force, outside the status quo, W d d M 11 Th was in its time. Ticknor, '60 gave in ohapel to , intervenes and puts into motion e nes ay, ay • e The session was brought to a win the Blatchford Oratorical the opject previously a:t rest, or many faculty members and close with a question-and-answer Contest. Its contents deserves changes the direction and force. three interested students in period, in which the question was closer inspection than is possible of the objects already in Diotion, attendance heard Professor raised of how one can tell when when listening to the spoken ·Thus, it is by the intervention of · f 1· • f audulent CU J'.tiS StreSS the reSpOnSi• a pieCe 0 ffiUS C IS r ' STEIN GLASS LOOKS AT word. Footnotes have been emit- a new force that the old status· merely a hoax taking advantage ted as is customary under E;Uch. quo is altered and a new one ere- bility- of the listener in the of modern orchestral techniques, . circumstances. ated:. process of musical communi- which often forego ·what we call -. ___ Only a force can change th.e . cation. a \tune.\ It was generally agreed \May it ·Pl'e·ase the .nourt , .. \ conviction of the segregationists Hi t hl h that the piece in question would ~ d f h t f 1 ·. s commen s, w c were ex· These W . ords, ladl'es a· nd gentle• an the purveyors o ' a e u t d . th f' ld f t . reveal itself as fr·aud by its laclt · d 1 en ed mto e 1e 9 ar , were men, will be echoed throughout preJu ice. And only peop etcan not at all complimentary to the of poetic quality, which would be the lega . 1 n'h. am·be-rs- of. our·: land: exercise force in this conflic· · t . d felt after repeated listening if an v mass .of -con emporary mustc an as counsel for tha defense carries Non-Violent Resistance is Needed art \lovers who so often reflect honest attempt we1:e made to the battle for racial equality Non-violent r~fstance is a pow- modern society's fast pace, snap understand the piece. through the courts. erful movement and organize-d judgment;;, and \animal hostility o--- 0 th f t th 'd · student demonstrations must not to t\\_ ·e unfa· m.r'llar.' 'Professor · n ano · er ,!\on , e epi Bm1c u of student sit-in strikes marks a be allowed to die out when school· Curtis noted, however, that mod- . 'f'. t d 1 t . th recesses for the summer. But ern soci'·ety was not alone l·n I'ts s1gn1 tean eve opmen 1n ; e d b t \I f th more than non-violent resistance f• 'l-ure to seek an undet•stanq1 'ng long .an · itter rou:u e o · e ~ Ame-rican Negro to shed the cloak is needed to change the prevalent of the changing nature, of society, of secOiid-cla.Ss ,citizenship. Psy- social pattern in the South. as revealed in the arts. chologically and politically, the' Force is needed to change the He punctuated his introductory . sit-ins may be mo,re important status quo, but as a practical mat- remarks by use of a phonograph. than the fate of litigation in em- ter, it will need to be a force He attempted,. ·by playing works ancipating the Negro from the which will pull 'bY pet\suasion rath· of :Haydn, Beethoven, and Bartok legally imposed yoke of i'hferjor· er than push by compulsion, (in that order), to instill in his ity, The Southern libel'als them- audience a feeling for the living, selves hold the key to turn the changing form of the Western \Sense of Involv€11t1ent\ t d 1 ft t th course of even s an e o · em- orchestral movement. He tDolt his A fine documentary on Albert Schweitzer, a rarely filmed· man, will be pr·esented by the Film Classics this evening at 7 and 9 P.M. in EE 22. Another documen- tary, The Battle of San Pietro, wUI also be shown . As a film, Albert SchweiilL<er, is unusually thorough. We see Gumsl>ach, his ·birthplace, his jungle hospital at Lamber~ne and his triumphant return to his hometown .. We learn more than just what Dr. Schweitzer does, hut how he thinks and feels. \Reverence for life\ is Schweit- zer's ·main theme. His actions are outgrowths of what he be- .Jieves. He does what he does be- cause he has tu. Schweitzer still lives in the nineteenth centu,ry. Two very widely varying traditions .in govemment are both significantly repre- sm ted in the pages of this \\'eek's issue of LIFE. Eng- ian<'! and Germany, na·tions that for -15 years of the pre-sent century represented antitheses of political philos- ophies me once again chal- lenging each other, but this time only for the innocuous prize 0f the reader's atten- tion. The Battle Yet daspite the innocence of thi:s battle Letween lines two old rivals, each wuntry i~ depending upon the very The sit-ins give to the ·pa.rtici· selves they might succeed .in 50 listeners ·with him through the pants, in the words of Iviartin or 100 years. The tragic factor very condemn.ed history of music Luther Ki-ng, a \sense of partie!- is that they are a .persecuted .min- and showed them forcefully why pation and involvement\ that ority within their own ranks. It sacb· a violently hostile reaction litigation can never· supply. 'J;'his ls the lack of creative white lead· was produced ·by the first :playing is not only morally satisfying to ership in the South that tragi· of Beethoven's Fifth .symphony, the ·participants, but the sit-in cally bars the way to basic re- today one of the most popular of movement is creating youthflJ.l, form. The politicians, even the all classical symphonies. The or- educated -leaders-the most serl- best of them in other areas of iginal reaction was shown to be ous shortage in the Negro South political decision, rant and rave a pt·oduct of the change of ap- -who are in turn waking up like lunatics when it comes to proach of this work from the their lethargic elders. At the legislating in the area of civil Haydn and early Beethoven tradi- same· time, direct action is at- rights. These r:epresentattv.es of tion. tracting attention and support the South in the United States Professor Curtis demonstrated from outsiders such as Southern Senate, have the effrontery to the basic similarities between Negroes have known before. characterize the report of the Haydn's and Beethoven's pieces The deeper meaning of the sit- Civil Rights Commission docu- and said that the same concern ih demonstrations, in the words menting discriminatory prac- for evidences of underlying com· of the Southern Regional Council, tices and, outright physical irn- mon orchestral tradition and dif- a· ,group distinguished for its pediments preventing the Negro ferences of interpretation and ap- thoughtful researches on race from voting, as, in the V\\ords of proach, when exercised by ·con- . problems, \is to show that segre- Sen. Eastland, \mutterings from temporary listeners, would lead gation cannot be maintained in Moscow.\ Sen. Strom Thurmond to the discovery and understand- . the South, short of continuous of South ·Carolina branded the ing of •music which reflects the coercion and the' intolerable soc- repprt as \Marxist philosophy,\ modern temperament. The audi- ial disorder that would result.\ and Sen. Herman Talmadge of· ence was then asked to listen and The reason that Dr, Schweitzer has been so rarely photographed is that he is literally \camera shy.\ Movie making, he feels, would be too much of an imposi- tion on himself, his work, and the hospital. ,; feature of its history that has given it fame and for- tune. In Eng-land, we are being treated to the marriage of Princess :\Iargaret complete with all the pomp and splen- dor that has characterized British royalty and has become, in fact, a symbol and binding force for the whole British empire. And while England vies for the reader's eye with h€'r stately processionals .and rituals, Germany is right l.Jack to using the feature of its history that has attracte'd attention and horror throughout tlw centurie:s, German militarism • Georgia cried out that the C()m- Wha.t Is Course .~J>f Events mission's findings were \the an· The white leadership, the report tithesis of everything for whi<:h emph~ized, \has hardly yet be- we Amerieans claim to stand.\ gun to conceive the dimensions Leaders CondWJt is Emula.ted of change, or to say publicly that The conduct of these \leaders\ the w'hite people must learn to, is emulated throughout the South live· with change and to acknowl- by the army of little pol'iticians UNION PHARMACY edge that the present problem is (Continued on Page 6} to reconcile the Negroes of the South ,to their communities on '\Drugs and Fountain Service·~ FREE DELIVERY R. Allm. Bleser terms of dignity.\ This goes to the heart of the issue raised in two recent Letters to the Editor of Concordiensis. 'l;he authors of these letters. both . Southerners, suggest that events, left to their natural c\Ourse will slowly evolve toward the external goal of desegregation in the South. But what is this \natural course of events\ which will elim- inate the evils in the present situ- ation? Qhange and improvement: are eertainly natural phenoonena; 'but they are not spontaneous- they cannot occur without a cause. Indeed, the natural course of events is to follow Newton's Law of Inertia. Freely paraphrased and adopted to this situation, the law states that the natural course of events is the perpetuation of the status quo-an object at rest remains at rest, an ubject in mo- tion keeps on moving in its accus- tomed manner, in the same direc- a a&s ~fti!N· ........ JP\Ixn In New York VisitGlqiplt 14 E. 44th St •.• N&w York 17, N.'Y. 0.00 Union St. FR 4.3605 MUrray Hill 7-0850 FERRO'S RESTAURANT Specializing in JtaliCJn-Atnerican Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking [)16-9554 I 115 Barrett St. -p· .. ct' .• PR C!lnllrgr Mrquir.rmeut This Classic Knit Sport Shirt by Arr~J.VIllas long been favored by the university man. Year 'round comfort, smart styling .in I 00% cotton. Comp~etely washable. $4.00. Also shown, University Fashion walk shorts, slim, pleatless front. $5.95 up. • These are the silver wings of a U. S. Air Force Navigator. As a flying officer on the Aerospace team, he has chosen a career of leadership, a career that has meaning, rewards and executive opportunity. _ q.'he Aviation Cadet Program is the gateway to this career. TQ qualify for this rigorous and pro- fessional training, a high school diploma is required; however, nvo or more years of college are highly desirable. Upon completion of the program the Air Force encourages the new officer to earn his degree so he can better handle the respon- sibilities of his position. This in- cludes full pay and allowances while taking off-duty courses un- der the Bootstrap education pro· gram. The Air Force will pay a substantial part of all tuition costs. After having attained enough credits so that he can complete course. work and residence require· ments for a college degree in 6 months or less, he is eligible to appiy for temporary duty at the school of his choice. If you think you have what it takes to earn the silver wings of an Air Force Navigator, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Aslc him about Aviation Cadet Navi- gator training and the benefits which are available to a flying officer in the Air Force. Or :fill in and mail this coupon. There's a place for tomorrow's leaders on the u s AerosPace Team. · Air ForCe , _ _,. _________ _, It was with a great deal of skepticism that we read one of the featured articles in the l\Iay 16 issue of LlF'E, \Germans in Arms Again-On Our Side.\ The process of rearmament of 'West Germany, which LIFE neatly calls, \one of the miracles of Emope,\ fails somehow to bring the warm glowing feelings of joy that the magazine is obviously trying to instill in our b1·ea'sts. LIFE proudly announces that \German officers are once again drinking traditional toasts in bran<ly to the military virtues of courage and strength,'' and writes in glowing details of the fine German army that ''will soon be ready for battle, but only if the Russians pick the fight.\ We realize full well that if you are a red-blooded, patriotic American and have listened carefully to the preaching of the late John Foster Duiles, you are supposed to have completely forgotten the past by this time and feel only the greatest of prides that the Germans are now doing thei:\ best to help us defend our beloved domecracy, but for some reason the only feel- ing that comes up in this reader's chest is a cold chill. A Banner Issue When taken as a whole, however, this week's issue of LIFE is the finest we have seen since beginning our asso- ciation with the organization. The articles cover a wide ?elec~ion of to.pics and t~en~ is \something for everyone\' m tl}1s grabbag of surprises. For the intellectuals in the crowd we have a fascinating account of the 1912 Democra- tice National Convention which picked Woodrow Wilson as their man after a mere 46 ballots. Walter Lord is the au- thor and continues in his tradition of making history pal- atable to the masses. · Even the world of a1·t is covered, if somewhat indi- rectly, by the old LIFE standby, the photographer_ The article concerns a Pittsburg millionaire who has sticky fin- gers and loose pockets whenever he finds himself near a modern work of art. The result is a lengthy series of pic- tures showing the patron in front of some of his most fam- ous f~ncies. Although the photos resemble the family travelogue where mother is seen posing before all the great wonders of the vvorld, \\'e can at least see some very fine paintings in the background. Coming Soon In the \\·ay of coming attractions, a \Message from the se1·ies on the geneml topic of the American National Pur- pose\ which William Faulkner claims we have lost. LIFE apparently plans to show us how we are to find ', ~\:i~ri~~s c~~~~orNm~~TION II ' DEPT. SCOt . . it again with the aid of such prominent American minds as Stevenson, lVIacLeish, Sarnoff, Lippman and Billy Graham(?). To show that they are serious LII<\'E points out that this series will be run in conjunction with the New Ymk Times, so we would definitely sug- gest that you kee:p your eye oh. this series in future weeks when this observer will no longer be around to help channel your reading habits. --ARROW~ Wherever you go •• , )loll look .befter In qn Arrow shirt .. ..• ,- .... I BOX 7G08, WASHINGTON 4, D• C. 1 1 am between 19 and 26¥2, a cltl;zen 'I of the .u. S. and a high school.graduate I · 'I with---Years of college. Please · 1 . send me· detailed information on the . I Air Fore~ Aviation Cadet program. 1 I NAME I I STREET I I CITY I ' I COUNTY . STATE,___ I ~.;..;._ .... _ .... -.aM ......... ____ ......... Here's LIFE - May 16, 1960.

4 Sportsmen Hear WittnerTo Be Feted Jack Riley. C'',.a.t At.Sports Testimonial It Some 250 friends and admirers • will :gather in the Ash Grove Inn, I Absence Of Home Co,urse, Luck,· Mar Golfing Seas&it . , I·h reviewing the present situation at Union,. link coa.ch ·Clare Graves was forced to admlt tha.t the :seaso!l thus .f:w \has ·not been .too successfuL\ The faCt of the m!J.tter is that the links- men have ·been able t'O. mustier .only one wih in s.even outings. KI\J'1lott> Spt•akt•r Ja<'!> RiiPy, with Fnion's coaching staff .flanldng him, looks at ont• of t ht• a wan!\ matlt• at lht• Gnrnt•t :\11- Sport.~ Dinrll'r la..sl \\'t•d:wsda~·. The fru·,·s from. t.•ft to right bP- lon[;\ to Bruce Allbo11, Keilh Doyle>, Rih·y, Carl Witzt>l, F.d I'e- dosky and Art La;wrence. , Saratoga Spl\ings Satul'day night · · to honor Hal Wittner, \Mr. Union College,\ at a testimonial ginner which l:s being held as a sign of , gr·aUtud..e for his contributions to ·. Union College, basketball efficlal- ing, football officiating. sports ln g~neral. .Nat Holman Sp.,.aks Nat Holman, former CCNY bas· ketball coach, will ·be the.principal speaker·. Othez· speakers will in- clude J. Emmett Dowling, direc- tor of the bureau of health and ~_duration for the Alhuny puhlic schools; Ed Donald, RPI dirl'c- tor· of nthleties; Ral-ph R<>nwrad .. who \\'ill rPpr~~Pnt thP Pnion Cnl\ l~ge A·lumni; Larry O'Neill, presi- dc•nt of ·the Capitiil Distr.ic~ Foot-· ball 0 f(·rcials Association; Her-· man Stracher, prc.;;lc.lent of the' Adirondack district board of ap- pmved basketball officials, et at Hal Wiftner.S' fraternity, Phi DP!ta Theta, dedicated a plaque to him last year. Hung on the fraternity .house wall, the plaque tells a. lot about the man: \John Harold Wittner. A humorous insight into the United States quest for Olympic and World hockey championships was related to. Union College athletes by At·my hockey coach Jack Riley at the annual Gamet All-·<s•>------------- Hal, gentleman, born in New York City August 25, 1:&96 . • • Gr-adua..ted Bachelor of Science Union College 1920. The so.le victory ca.m,e against Vermont (4~3), with loses to.Hairt- wick, Hobart, ;:>yracuse, Roches- ter, Clarkson, and Middlebury. \At Roqhester and Hartwic.k;'' ·noted the bespectacled menton, \one .putt made the difference and that's just a flip of a coin. AU that's been g-Oing ~our way , this year ha:; 'been iniserj .'' ',['be · :· ...... , · 5-4 loss to Roche~ter was decided ' .. · ... ,., ' by . one point on the· 18tJl hole, · · while at Hartwick three points : on the 18th prov .. ed· decisive in : i•Unioti's 5'12-3'12 defea.t. Actually . !':the only big, loss carne ag:J,lnst . :Clil.r'kson \8 'r, -2 'r~ J, and thi:m prom · ; weekeuc.l tool< it::; toil. The main problem f-or the tealn · : ihas been the fact that the team' •;has consistently lac:kea a \OP~ . :flight number-one man. This has . I{e served hrs ~o)lege as _coach, , forced ·~he other men on the team :tnied the team has been tbe fact drrector of athl~t1cs, and ·director 'to pia 0 e 1 t . f th , t there )las been no home gQlf and professor. of !lhysicar educa-::prope/ po~iti~n~;· u!n ~~~ossi~:~ course. 'I'his has made it almost uon commencmg m 1922. ::situation \That' th b. 1 st : itnpos,.;ible fo·r the ·ieain to prac~ Mocl.cst in victory, gracious in i:of golf a't Union,~ G:a:esol~me~[ tice adequately. The Mohawk defeat, tolerant and understa.nd-, '-~ \Wh. etl we ha ·h a·. d Golf Clu~ bas opened t!J.eir greens · · d · · · · c:\\-'· ve • a a goo to the team f · th' ' tw· mg, ~p1smg hypqcnsy. Hal w1th: :roan we have lost him Th 1 · . · Qr .rs seasons · o zeal strove ever for th.e:: f B G\ • . e oss home matches, but as for next welfare of Union College and Phi:; 0 en. ldley has severely llul,'t there se-ems to be no course Delta Theta, Presented :by th.e us. With him here our record within a 30 mile radius. me111bei's of New York Beta March 1 wo~ld have probably been about. All considered then, the team 14. 1959\ · · · : 5-,Z. · as done remarkably well .under • • Another problem that has sty- the circumstances. Sports dinner last Wednes- day night at West College dining hall. Coaches decide on the \Achieve- ment Awards.\ They include Keith Doyle, football; Carl Wit- :zel, basketball, soccer, tennis; Art Lawrence, baseball; Bill Ketz, cross-country. track; Ed Fedosky, swimming; Bill Aubrey. volleyball; Bruce Allison, wrest· ling, lacrosse. Baseball coach Art Lawrence served as master of ceremonie~ in the absence ·of Athletic Director Bill Ketz who was confined to hi5 campus home with pneumonia. pi~na?·le.. regaled_ his audience With 1ns1de stories of the Squaw Valley games, including the famous oxygen incident. ~he glib-tonguec.l Irishman ex:- plamed that he allowed his squad to use the oxygen between periods of the final game against Czecho- slovakia mainly not to embarass the Russian team captain Soiogu- !Jov who had come into the dress- mg room to help his newly-found Amet·ican \friends\ win the gold. medal. \I have no way to telling whether It helped us or not, but 1t sur~ was a p,;ychoiogical- lift,\ the Cadet ice boss said. He re- vealed that one of the players who played best in tlre fmal rally, Boll Cleary, didn't even get a smn of the oxygen. TO THE CLASS OF Blankets A wa.rdt>d Lawrence a w a r d e d Garnet blankets. properly inscribed, to the following senior athletes: El- mPrs Jurjevics, Jay Vanneck, Chuck Marshall, Tom Hoffman, Ned Hatfield, Dave Mitchell, Lew Buckman, Chip Nas~or, Warren Bagatelle, John Lubetkin, Dick Kmnzmann, Ed Ruth, Pete Schmidt, Carl Valentine, Jerry Krause, Bruce Lawton, Gabe Cillie, Joe Andreana. Paul Wies- ner and Don Carlson. Odstand·ing player awards. given by respective squad coaches, were as follows: Dave Mitchell, baseball; Tom Hoffman, cross- country; Elmars Jurjevics, track; Jim MacDonald, swimming; Joe Andreana, volleyball; Georg<' Thompson, football; Pete Adasek wrestling; John Pelton, basket- ball, and Jerry Krause, soccer. Awards for tennis. golf and la- crosse will be made after the schedules are completed. Pike Scholarship Awardt>d The Bill Pike award, for the> member of the junior class who most typifies best attitude, abil- ity, participation and achi~ve­ ment, all qualities of the la•te three-IPttPr athlete .in whose name it is awarded, ·went to George Thompson. All-East foothal! tac- klt>, who haR played three years of football, three years of lacrosse !defense) and has never been of-f the Dean's List. The Ed Fitz award for frater- nity participation in athletics and harned for the former Vnion trainer, went to Chi Psi with Jim Erceg accepting for his brothers. The ECAC medallion for ath- letic and scholarship achieve- ment was awarded to Jerry Krause. Members of the swimming team voted the Ray Mullane Award as the \most improved .swimmer\ to Dave Henderson of Yonkers. As the keynote speaker Jack Riley. who guided the destines of the U. S. hockey brigade which drew international acclaim for its dramatic climb to the Olympio He credited Goalie Jack M.CC:ar- ten, who captured the fancy of Anwrican sports fans for his .ex, ploits Ill the U. ::;. nets, the Ciear·y lJrolhers, Bill and Bob, late of Ha1vard, and .llmnesota's J·ohn . .\laya:;ich with playing the most vrominent 't·o!es· in the victory. Fours(>IIIO Start Late None of the fam·some was a member of the original Olympic squad whid1 started out on a barnstorming tour across the country on 1ts way to Squaw Valley. After the first few games Riley knew he needed help and the Clearys, McCarten and Maya- sich were called into action. He called Bill Cleary the best ali around player of the group, but quiclily added the gold medal would have been Impossible with- out McCarten. He felt the best triumph was the 2-1 victory over the Canadian team and the most satisfying was the win over the Russians, with untold millions of television view- en; Looking on. Ha listed f.our reasons why his tPam came out on top--good· con- tltioning. playing at home, de- sire and Jots of luck, and the fact that the players didn't want to let the U. S. people down. La BOUNTY•s LAUNDERETTE W ashers-25c for I 0 lb. Dryers-JOe for 40 lb. ONE 'BLOCK WEST O'F CAMPUS Cor. Park Pl. and South Ave. Open 24 hours a day 7 d~ys a week L&M MOTEL 5 Minutes from the Campus on Rice Road Call FR 7·9859 for Reservations '61 . .. THINK NOW OF NEXT YEAR It's not too early for all juniors, to start plamiing-·abead to what you are going to do ·after your gt:adua:tion. June-, 1961, isn't very ~ar cr.way~ Consider working for Public Service Electric and Gas Company in New Tersey. O:ne of the leading utUities in the nation, it has more than $'1.000,000;000 invested in plant. The company ran\ks .fourth among the inver:;tor- owned operating :utility companies providing both qc;a; and electric service in 1b.e United State~. You would be wise to:give Public Service serious con- sideration • , , and start thinking :now of neJCt year. SEND fOR THIS TODAY. Write for the lnic;~rmaliva brochure \'l'r\:llninq Cburses. for College Graduates\. Write Public Sii!J::Vice, 80 Park Place, Room 2l52A, Newark l, Ne;w: Jersey- f~r your free copy. PUBLIC SERVlC:E ElECTRIC AN 0 GAS C'O., N.EWARK 1,- N. t t I .I ,' Friday, L~ Fi Te go alee lndivirl ga1nle; \B coach, l I:n a se. and b~ Garnet their 1 years, team eJ against and th the fou guys n son. Fight! has tw< (and a< coach's the Ga1 scored b Zimmeri first pet followed own. Union with an tell, ag: visitors, The I Union t [.alid t'l'l scored quarter. Behin Ten fai period < pointles. mermar of the followec furious seconds L:pmr f perfect \Bruc the tJni is a tri' deter!lli was rec umnist,. pea ted. coach's ~an sel' haps e~ his a1 ments. H Hold! wins s squad champ!; has sl).< ca.nber .!!hip, a1 mark team tl TheE record iiaving Hamilt' land St games the sti selv.es t remain. \:It w \We. It al'ld' WE tMy c topnotc we car we're ~ Tlie-4 co-capt ler,. ali< the too of thee othet' 1

4 Friday, May 13. 1960 Sportsmen Hear Wittner To Be Feted !Absence Of Ho~e Course, Jack Riley Chat ,~!~~~~!~.Testimonia(~~~:z.~~~::~,,~?~fmg_Season I Clar,. Grave·>< wu.~ .forc0tl to acl.mit 1 f wtll ga th<\l' in th\ Ash Cit'O\'l' Inn. that lh<> ,.;t•,t,.;un thu,; fat· \has not :'.1.l.ltuga ~Jllltl.;:o;. ~aturd,ty ni;.,d1t l•t·t._·H t~,o \thTt· .... stul.\ ThP tact' ~ hl hulltll H.ll \\'ittE, L .. ~11 l'tHtJU 1 d t!i'' JH·ttt••l i~ th.tt tht· hnl\:-;-', ~~, t\,Jlv~t·,\ at a tt•:-.ttn1uni.tl dtllllt'l'' IH<'ll ha I'<' b,·,·n ablt• to m ust<'l' ~ only one wm m seven uutmg;:;. , The sulL' \·ietuty catne against : whieh i:-: bring ht·hl :1~ a :-;ign of ;:latitude• tor his conttibul!on:.: tu I '\ ·n.tllt Culk;-:r·. lu.,l;..tb.tll ufi'Jc.iat-, , \'t·rmunt \~·31, \\'ttlt loses to Hat·t-: 11 iek, Hobart, ;:;yraeu . .;e, Hol\lll's- · \<'!', Cl:trkson, and :>.1-idcl·lebury. I III.:. l1111t h. til :\a~ lh!J!nan. fu:!JJt t ('('.:\'Y h;t:'- kl't·b:~ll t'tl.ll' h.'\\ 111 t·\· lilt· tlJ lllt'lll,ll I :-.}lo''l/\1'1 () t ht· :· ·\'!'t':llu•!..; \\'i\J 111- ,·it!t.l• J E:r1!11t :~ Iltt\\ :1:1-~ d1t ,.· I •. I): ~ t :· • I. ~' :II ' ' 'I I ,f ! ; ' t 1. l: .. ' 1 I . '1 • . • \'I '. \' I •'llf ,' !•. I -.., !,,. F·l T',·: . .:.! ! :!•! ·!:'· I • I \.\t l!ot·h··~t~·r and ll:!ll\Vi't•k,'' llott·d riH• ht•·'JH•l't:t·Clt•d llll'llttHI, I ullt' }•lltt Ill<tLlt.• tht• dlfft'll'lh't' i :till! th.tt',; j\!Sl a flip llf a l'Oill. I 1 .\ll that's lJt't'll g·utn~ tnlr \\ay 1 ~tin.-. ~t·ar ha ... -; lwt·n 1111:-iet·v.\ T·iw 1 :~- t lu-,:--. to Hol'ilt.·:.tt·t\ \\'.l.'\i. dc.·etdl'd , j,~· Uflt· pul!lt un lllt.· l.'tth holt·, t 1\fllh' .tl !Ltrl\\'H.·h. lhlt'l' -po.at.-.. i un tilt..' l'\l11 1'111\td dot hl\(' t·!, l , f till;, ..., • l ' _ -~J _ 'o\' , I ,I 1 ~ \ \ ~ \l I 1..). '',• 1•! . .1:• :·r!~ ltl ..., o t!l:o .1;...: \J[,-..1 I, 111•-''1·1 \. , 'I!·.: • ~ l \ ( l ~ I;, J\f't·--1 , dt•nt ot the C:qHtal Dl:-\tl'il't I•~ont- \\ Ll t\.lllu. tuuh tl.\l tu~~- ' ba.ll Ofttctal,.; A:;.-;uciation; H1•r- I The m:lin problt·m for the tcan1 li<'~'llot .. :-;Jll·ak•·.r ,Jad< Hi!l·y, wit.h {'niou', •·oachin~: ,ta.ff flankin~ him, lnol,.., :lt ollt' of 1·h•· :t'l\:tl'tl.., 111:1<1•· at lhc• <iarllt•t .\11- \l\'~'h llinnt·r la-.t \\' .. tl·t,...,<(a~. Tht• l:t<'.\ tr·<>rn ldt to right !J,.. lun~ to BI'IH't' .\lli-.un, hdl,·h Uo~ It•, l'·ilt-), ( '•trl Wilt.t·l, hi Ft•- tlo ... k~ anti \r·t La\\'l't'llt'<'. .-\ ltumurun.~ in:-:i:.!llt into tlll' l'nited St<tte,.; tjlle:it for Olympil' and \\' .. tit! !.neLl'.\' cilampion,.;]Jip:; \\'a:i rel:tted to l'nion Collt>J..'I' atldt>tl•,.: I,,, .. \t·my hul'kl'.\' co<tdt .Jaek: l~ilc~· at tIlL' allllll:tl l ;a met All-~· ~port:; dinm•J· la,.;t \\'vdm·:<- <l<tY nig-ltt at \\'e,.;t (',)Jl\·gL· t lining hall. L~(J.tl h· ;-\ tl>-l'!dt· t.;Il ~Ill ... \1 LI'·V· l1\·nt A\V.tl d-..·· Thcv l~H .tldt K~·ith l)o~·l··. f,lo~·lull: ·<~,ttl \\'tt ~t·l. },:t:-'kt-•tlJ~ili. ~IH'~ t'l. t't·!~l.lL•, . .-\! t L:t\1. I ~·Ll'l. l ,~;..;•- !>.,::. H!!~ Kt•tl, t'l o..;-..t·r,lJJ.tl ~· •t ·tck 1::~~ Ft·do .... ky. ~\\ :!.:!ll!!: }::ll .\ u!.t \) \Lili· yL:tll. I~: \lt .\1!'-···!l ',\: . .: };.,_....dt.d} Ctl.l\ll .\1~ J_t'.\! :._ •. ,...,,1\t·d :1 ... lli t:--1·-~ ,,f <t'l It.<>IJ.• :-. ,;, tl.' ab:-\ttll:t ur .\~L!t·t.,t· fJ.:,~··~t };ili 1-:, ;·1. \\L\1 \\,t.-.: t·unl.ll• d L• l~l- .1 lltJ 1 ll-: LUlllt· \\ l~ L l•llt tlflpll.lt Blanlit•h .\\\ ;trdPtl L,;,\\\}t'l:l't' .l 1.1.' :tl'ol • d (i:tlJl• • f,]'ll.kt,.t'.:-'. lllO}H'lly ln.:-ll!·ht•d l1 1Lt fiJiiU\\ lilt..! .~1 11101 .tlttlt·tt· .. El- l!. L' Jllljl\'ll·:<, J.ty \',tlJ:1t'<k. C'itl'l'k ~!Hrsh:tll Tum llnl'f:llall. :·,.d l!at'lh·ltl. IJ:tv, :'>lt'l'!:dl L<\\ lhH l-ill::t11. ClliJ' ':\:t~ ... qr·. \\':tt r··t~ ]:· .. :tt..J< ... .T<~Itn !.~th..tktn P:dc !'1 Jt::21Jl·\\ Ed J(utli I'd•· :O:('lltnidt C·u! \'tl•llt!%11', .J, 11~· l..:t.:.tl:-:•. 1~1 \leo·' L:t\\'ur:. li·tL• ( tlJ~,. J[}\' And1 t··t.n:.~ P:1u! \\.'t, ,; llt'J :ttul Ilon C':u·l.-'t>ll. Ot·t.;::u .. !ing J<l:ty .. : :.w.: r·l, :....\ 1 n h~· 1 t t'Jh't't!Vt' :-:qu 1d i'() .~·h· :-:. \\t·I, ;~,~ !'tdlo\\·~ I>:t\' ~Irtch~!J. ~'I ...:t·b;ilJ; Tutn 1 In! ra;:liL t'fO . ...;. l nun tty; 1-~llnar..:; .Jur]t•\·ic:'. t.Ltck .l·u1 :\~-,.,,f>ona,ld :'\\'tnl~tln-.~: .lo· . Aildr~-··,na. \oil~·~l··,Jl (~, •Jl ~· Thorup..:;nn fnot·h:lll; Pdt· .\d.t'-'• k \\! • ..;tltn:..:. John }l, !ton. ~,·J,k··t t.:1Jl. :1.nd .h·tty Kt'lll~t·. '-'••t•tl'l ,\\Y:ifd'-' fot tt·f:lll~ !~(Jlf .tnd l, c ,,, .... ..,,. \\\;II lw tn:ldt• ~!ftt·r t'h· !--l'ht•dUlt·S :tlt· l'OII!Jiklt>tl l'ilH• Sdwlar ... hi [J .\ware !Pel ·r lit· Hill Ptli•' ,,w:n1l tflr t:1, lll·'!l.b• ~ ut t f.,.· Jltllll'] tIt~:-- \\.'h1• ftlP:--t l~J•iftt•-. }lt'~t ttt.lt\lti.• :1bl,] It~· pa!!HI}•.i'tinn .t.11d ~,,·h:~ ,., lllf'tlt. all q11.1l~tl•·-.: of tht· ]at•· u,• t•t·-:,·t •, 1 :1nlld1· i!~ \' ho.-:,. t.:l.!ll•· 11 1~ :t'x:ntltd. \\•·nt to CJeCJl:..!•-· Th11!1lJ•~\n :\11 E:t. .. t filtlf\l tl\ t.1 · 1\lt. \•;h(} h:t-.: pJ:tVt•d t!JI••t• \'t··::...; (If [tlOH··tll. tlltt•r- \·t··tt ~ uf l:u-'t tJ.-...:,-· •tlt·f, n\'t' 1 ·tt.d ha:: };1'\'•'l l't't n olt th•· lk::1.11'~ Li\t. Th·· E<l Fitz ·tw:n.] for fr •t\l· n1ty particqLt•lH•n 111 at-hi• ttc~. 'ltt·l r.:t.nl•·d fol' tl:·· ffll'lut·J l'rd••ll tr:tint·r. \\ t·nt tu Chi P.-I \\'tth J:!n Ern·g :H't•t•ptllt~ fo1 hi~ J,rntllt r:-:: Th<· t:CAC lllt·d:dlttttl fur alll- kttc ant! :.:t•linl:H·-ht]> a.<'l!lt•\'•· :.!t·llt \\-:t~ :1\\arl•·d tn JPJIY Kt ;lU:\itl ~j,·rnh,·r~ of tht· .,,\-itull111l~ tt';Hn \\o)1t·.d tlH· H.a~; !\.fuilant· .A\'·:ard ;1:; t.ht· \tlltJ:-!t irnpl't1\'1·1l ~'\ inlllll't\ t t) !1<1\'l' llt·nd{'r~un of Ynnl<erf;. A'i>. ~lH• kt•y!lot t' !-:[li·'il\C'I\ J a,·k Hil.•y. who gUitlt·d th•· cl•·-tir.e:; nf the> l' S. hor'kt•V br i:.:,ldr• wl1it'h <ll't•W tntt·l·nntinn~l nrc;hilil frw tH drnmatie climb to th.· Olyrn]•ic Jdtdl.t.clt•, lt·,t.: tlt•d hi~ :tUlliPI1L't' \\.~lth ln ..... ult• stuz·tt·~ uf tht• Rqua\V \ nlky ~.:auH·s. lllt'llllllng tht• no\\'- '.tlltUtj:-i uX_\O..:t·n tLlll'h·nt. . Tht· :,:llh·tun.:unl ltt~htnun L''\.· ~~Ll-lll•·d .~ft·tt f:t· :t:lu\\t'd hi~ squa.d ·'.\. l\t 1 ilt' tiXJ _:.:t•Jl }<,•t'Wt'l'fi }IL'l\iUdS \: th,· Lt..t~ ~:ntu_ ag-.llnst Cztlc1Ju~ :.'\' .,_l\.;.~ :cau:l\ nu: to l'lllhara~~ J,,. l~u.,~l<~;: 1t<t.fu l.tj't.t.tll ~ulogu­ ·u\ \\ h~~ L.:d t't'!llt' ll.to tilt· dt'L':iS· .t:_ r.,•_llu ~~~ f •• lJ• h:::-: llL·wlv-found .\::.•·· .• 1.:1 · 111, tld;-, \\ .tt tilt· gold !l.t d. si . ·r, L.t\.t.· . Il<J v . .~~ to tclltu-9 '' t,l_. ~hL·t .t nL.l_..~ ~..i U:-, u1 uut, but It ·\Ult \'..1~ cl J.~~~Jiulu!\'h.'al lilt,' r i1·· t ·.td• t h.~..- Lt) . ..;~ :-- tll.t. !lt.· 1 , .. \t l;t·d ,L tl •d:1-· vt iht· }H...t.)',_·l.- \\ :a_~ p.a .• • tl t,l·~t .r. t!lt.. tln~d 1 ad\.' t .u!'J t_·.l ,~:). dld:.·t . \ t·:. gt,·t .1 :·ani; ! ll t l.t tl~~ ~l·'li liv cl t dit.L-d l_iu~d.iL' J .. uk ~lc<...\.ll-­ :.l ,;, \\ J1u .. ·.q''-Utt-·d tilt.: L.tney ut .\!{1'. ;l.tll _...;ptll ~:\ I.l.lj .... lUi hlS L'X- 1J_.Utt.~ lil U.t· L ~. Ll t::--, till' ClL.il y i.•!tJ:J,t 1:\> I;lU .1l.d Ltd•. L.i.te ul ! t.tl \.tid .• u.J :.llidtL;-;uiJ'::-. Julllt .\~.1:•<.-t:'h Ji \\ Ith }Ji.d,\·dt~ tilt.~ UlU;.,t .t~J•,i!dUt·l•t rult•:--. ill ttlt: \lctuiy. Fuur-,cnnt· :-.tart Lat.e ~~-Hi.'-' ot t hv fllUI !\Dl1\L' wa~ a Ol• ruJ,L·l' ut tht> ungJIJa: OlyHl}.JlC' \\'ltl<ui Wt~tch ,;;t;t.l'lt d uut un a h~u .a:)tl.JI flllli...,.: tout :.H:rus:-. the . .-uuutty u11 Jt~ \\.t.Y to :S{!Ua'v \.<~IIi~ .-\ltvl tllo· liL-..;t !l'\V ganit·~, 1 ~.dt·y kLt·W ·ttt· n~ ···c.kd ht.ll-J and ~li•· L'lt.·d_J y . ..-:, ~.~,.t.:L':u t ,.n and .\la\'!.1- _...:ll h \\'l'lt· L:dh·tl tnt~J ~h·tion. He ,. til• d Bill L'l•··\Y thL' best all ti•Jltllll }•!:1yt r uf .tht· g1·uup, bul ,tuclc ly :nltl•·tl t ht· guld medal ~w·. ouid ha \'1• ht·t•lt ltllj•us . ..;lble \\'llh- •ll t :llt ·(.:I Itt. :J. li• lt··lt' tl.J. lw:\t Ulltlll}Jh wa.:; . L1 ~·1 \'h'toty o\'t 1 tltt_~ L'auadtan I• 1111 .u.d ~t1. nuJ_ .... t :--t~I:-;Iyntg \\'as tJw \\Ill 11\•-·1 tht· Uusstan:-:. With ~.tJ.:ojtf !ll,illUf<_..; lll t~·Jt \'l:'lUll \'it•\\'- 1..., idtd\.111~ Ull, ll· lt~~,.-,f f .. lu t•·.t:-..•ns \\lly his t1 ,ltll r ''•·•·· tJ!I~ (Jl' t\1}• ;.:.noel l'lltl- tt1i1•llllL.:,. I•Ltytn~ ;lt lluHH'. tit·- ~~~·· Ifill l<>l> of ]Hl'k. ant! tilL' r-_J.·t t! .. q tilt ,,: .• yt 1 .... dttln'·t \Va~1t u lt- t 1 rt• l •. :-;,_ JH'tJ}dP tlu\\ n. ~·====------- La BOUNTY'S LAUNDERETTE Washers-25c for 10 lb. Dryers-! Oc for 40 lb. ONE BLOCK WEST OF CAMPUS Cor. Park Pl. and South Ave. Open 24 hou•• • d•r 7 ddy~ a week ~c.....,..,._.o.-~o.u.~o_,.~O......oiC.o-o~a-o.-r,_oJ_•,_,.,_,,«*><J_u_o_ L&M MOTEL 5 Minutes from the Campus on Rice Road Call FR 7D9859 for Reservations man :;;tr:rdwr. pn•:.:it!Pnt uf tlw J. HAROLD WITTNER 1 has been the fact that the team Adinmdal'lc distnet board of ap- :has con:;i.<tL•ntly lacked a top- p!u\'<'cl ba,.;kcthall official,., eta!. · flig·ht number-one man. This has He ,.;eJ'V<•cl his coll<·g~ U 8 coach, f fut'Cl'd the other ·mPn on the team Hal \\'itttll'l'.'<' fl'!ltr•rnitv. Phi dll't•ctor of athlt•tic~. and dir~ctor I 1 'I'l 1 1 · to play one ><lot UJ> from their l. ta ~<·l:t, < Cl Jcated a plaque and proft•s:.:or uf phy,;ical educa- l 0 hint la,.;t year. Hung on the tiun commt·ndn;;- in 1922 . pro pet· po,.;itions; an illl]los,;i·blt> tta!l'nllt,\' llouse wall, the pla«ue :\l 1 t . situation. \That's the whul,• story -. • U'l es Ill \'ICtory, gtacwu::; in uf golf at Unicn,\ Graves lument- tvlls a lot about the man: defeat, tolerant and unc.ler·stand- ecl. \When we have had a good \Juhn Harold \Vittner. ing, cle;:;pi;:;ing hypocrisy. Hal ·with man we have lost him. The los;:; unselfish zeal strove ever for the Hal, gentleman, born In New welfat·e of L'nion College ami Phi ~~ Be~i~~dl~~~ 1 h:::' severely. hu;dt York City August 25, 1896 . . . Delta Theta. Presented by the · 1 ere our 1 ecor Gmduat .. d Bachelor of Science membc•r·,; of New York Beta March I ~~~~.ld have probably been about L'nion College 1920. H 1959\ -· _________________ • ___ ·__________ Another· pruble~_th_a_t_h_a_s_s_ty_-_ TO THE CLASS OF '61 .. II THI NO EXT CLARE GRAVES miccl tlw tc>am •ha,; .been the fact that thCI'L' ha~ bL·en no honw golf cour:<e. Thi,; ha,.: macle it almo~t impo~.-<1hlc fot· t'H' t<'am to prac- tkP acl<'qualt'ly. The ::.Iohawk Golf Club has opened their greens to the t,•am for this season's two home nwtclll's, ·but as for next year th<'re se0ms to be no course available within a 30 mile radius. All consid,·:cd then, the team has ·donP rernarka·bly well under the circumstances. -- --------- It's not too early for all juniors to start planning ahead to what you are going to do after your graduation. rune, 1961, isn't very far away. Consider working for Public Service Electric and Gas Company in New Jersey. One o£ the leading utilities in the nation, it has more than $1,000,000,000 invested in plant. The company ranks fourth among the investor- owned operating utility companies providing both gas and electric service in the United States. You would be wise to give Public Service serious con- sideration • • • and start thinking now of next year. SEND FOR THIS TODAY. Write for the informative brochure \Training Courses for College Graduates\. Write Public Service, BO Park Place, Room 2152A, Newark J, New Jersey for your free copy. PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS CO., NEWARK 1, N. J. ' ~ i l I ~ I l Friday, La Fi~ I Tell go alee lndivid1 ga:me; \Bt coach, !1 In a sea and by Garnet their h years. team ef against and thE the foUJ guys nE son. Fightir has two t and a C• conch's I the Gar scor·ed bJ Zimmern first peri followed own. Union·, with an tt>ll, aga v!s1turs, The t: Union b1 land tw1 scored t quarter . Behind Ten fuii period o pointle~s merman of the ! followed furious ! seconds Lazar fi perfect ! \BrUCE the Unic is a. trib determir was recc ur ... 1nist, ; pea ted coach's can ser\ haps eve his ab' ments. He Holdir wins si squad s cha.mpio has sho caliber ship, an mark a team th TheBi record i Having Hamil to land St! games t the stic selves tc remaini1 \It we \We kr and we' they co top note! we can we're g• The C co-capt! Jer, and the tear of these other b

ff&O fact gQlf a:Imost prac· gveens tWO next COUr',Se :radius. team· 1 .under in t j .I ,• Friday, Nay t3, 19~0 Lacross~: A Long ·Three Games Decide · Fig··.· ht ·T·o V·· .. 1 ·c·t· ·o·r·y· 1960 Bas.eball~Record By Ha.rvey Ha.yden Aided. by a costly error in the seventh inning o£ the game ag~ms~ ~ochester, the Garnet managed to push across the wmnmg run and even up tlw season serie.s tween the two ball clubs at~- one apiece. Wald.man To Leave Tony Tiska aga-in was superb. on the mound for the locals as; he scattered f.ive hit,; among the opposition batter:;, The only ex-' li'a base hit for the visitors was 1 a home run in the fin;t inning, · . As this i>;sll<'- was going t,q w'i-th the base:> clt·wr., by the right : 1 1 f-ieldPr, Schum. GuchP w<'nt all . pri·ss, it wa.~ l<>arrwd that Gerry · t-}1e way on ·the mound for ·Roches-,. \\'a:ldma.n wo-.rld bl\ lt•a\'ittg to takt> a similar ·jiositi on as train-· · ter and yielded nine hits and four · r.tins during the ball game. . 1 , .,..r at Hofst~t: \\'ahlman, wiao came -to Uniou iu 1957 after Cont.l'.'lt Tied att€'nding Springfield ha.~ l.\arD· 'The Yell ow jackets Ueu the· con- I· \\ the high I'€'Spi'>Ct of both tc:;t in the seVL'nth inning at 3-3 •·oach•·\ and athl••tl's during his when the f-irst halter walked, the I ~tay hf>rl'. ncKt ba.ttcr singled, and th~ r·un-1·---~~ ner·s advanced on a fielder's I Netmen Down RPI Foes To Continue Perfect Slate cho!CC. T1ska forced the n•·Xt bat , \'I'- ll:.· <•ff<·rilll-:, ·of :\lil<'h<•JI for· tcr, Forte, to ·h-it the ball on -tilt> la<.Jl'e ·than ~ill~!<· liilli<·s in the ground to Thur;;tun. uut the tying SP('Oild. oixth and S!'\'l'llth fntlllcS. .., .... run scon:d o.n th~; vlay. Tony ~.d Fmnk, HPJ's kading mounds- downed the next two batter.::~ to man, suffered the loss. face him in --order. Johnny Pelton and Jer.ry Thurs- -:..~_ ,, :~~ sPnding it hlll\ling across tb.e nets for another Union victory. Da71Zliug p~r­ .formances all around ha\1\8 led tl) the netmen's undefea~d season. ·' . Ted ·Detmer skinnishes beforE;~ tl!.e nets iWith th-a Cortland goatee in an attempt to send ()De h()ine for the Garnet. Str()ng individual _ .performances marlted the Dutcbim.ents hard-fought ga1me; tlh.e best l)f tlte season, h was the bottom half of the ton pac!.!d L'nwn's :,e\'cn\hit attack seventh inning that told -the story W-ith two saf•·ti•·s <'a<'·h. Thurston of H\e ball game. The first batter got tht• only •·xtra-haser, a double.· f<;>r the Garnet, Wotherspoon, sin- In the big third·, Mitchell gled to left. Big Ron lumbered led off by drawing :a pass and, around. to third as Dick KranZ- moved ar·ound on Pelton's single. mann singled sbal'ply into center. Both runners scored when a bali Then Thurston hit a ground ball hit by Ron Wotherspoon skidded · By Bob Sherwin down to the shortstop, Fode,. and through the infield for an errOl', the ball went through his legs, Thurston then belted a double A partisan crowd broke out in a rash of spontaneous alknV'ing Wotherspoon to ·cross the to score Wotherspoon and Mike applause as th'e Union College netmen vanquished a de- plate, with What later proved to Evans came through with a sin- termined Rensselaer team in the most thrilling tennis be the winning tally. gle to score Thurston with the matcn of this highly suc-~•o------~------ B;y St'llve Dleltei:man \Rruce you've come a long way!\ said the Cortland coach, last Satu_rday, as his team bowed 7~6 to the Big Ten. In a season which has been highlig·hted by norne v-ictories and by away defeats, the~·~----------~ Garnet stickmen produced • their best season in many Thznclads Romp years. !We had our 'best · teal!l effort in three seasons ·over Middlebury agamst Cortland Satu:rday · and the three-goal rally in· By Leslie Marrus the fourth period ShOWS my Union College's track team guys never quit,\ said Alii- swept all .of the runiliilg events son. a:nd took ten of 14: first places to score a 74~-50~ .triumph over Middlebury College at home on Wednesday. The victory was the second for the Dutchmen thin clads in five duaJ meet starts. Wotherspoon, 'l'iska, and Kopec fourth run. B · f each had two hits apiece to. aid L' · t.:essful season. Y VIrtue o me score: R. -H. ·E. the RPI '·l\ctory on Wednes- the Garnet cause, and Tiska turn- • ed in an excellent pitching per- Union · · · · · · 00 4 OOD 000..,...-4 7 2 d d S t d · for:nlance as well, to help Union RPWPI _· .M. ·l:t·n·h-e!Oll.O 001 100-3 5 4 Ha:r~ic: C~ll~~eafh:Du~~~~- g ain their .fifth win against five ~ LP Franlt setbacks. x- * *- · men emerged from the duels Line score: R. H. E. With only three games left on with a perfect 7-0. Rochester . . 100 010 100-3 5 5 the schedule for this seaso.n, the Amid Spring Prom festivities, Union .. · : ·. 210 000 lOx.--4 9 0 Garnet nine go into the ball game a group of Hartwick racketmen WP-Tiska. LP-Gu<:he. Saturday, against RPI, with a trotted onto Unio.n's· tennis courts * * * win-loss record of 6-6. The Dutch- ·with the hope of toppling the Gar- Tony Tiska turned in a beauti- men need to w:in the game Satur- net from the ranks of the un- ful game on the moun·d for the day, as well as the two next week beaten. But, the \Witzelkids\ Dutchmen against Williams last with Pratt and Stevens, in order proved t-oo strong for the boys Tuesday, but his teammates gave to come up with a 9-6 record and from the Oneonta schooL Once him very little support in the field a very successful season. the netmen had completed the six as the Ephn'len, from across the singles matches, the game was mountains, handed Union their A the beginning of the season actually \in the bag.\ The 6-3 six:th loss of the season. The game thipgs looked extremely bright for win was the sixth straight for wru:; 'Only tl;le second win for Wil- the baseball team. With zn,any Union's charges. Then the Gar- liams against 11 setbacks. Art promising new faces and with net awaited arch-rival Rensselaer, Moss went all the w-ay on the most of last year's team 'back, a team they bad not beaten since mound . for the visitors and· gave Coach Lawrence looked l!l39. high through both squads. This was the 89th meeting between. the two -teams in a series which be- gan in 1916 (Union won 13, RPI 25). The Garnet combataztts !!\. the 1960 edition of this net classic were out to avenge last season!s 6-3 loss. As the first serve rocketed over the net there began a set of well- fought and hard-played singles events. When the smoke had cleared from the fray the picture was quite black for the Union stalwarts, Rensselaer was leading 4-2. The only bright spO>ts• be- ing the victories produced by Jay Vanneck and Eric Greenbush; If the Garnet were to remain unbeat- en, they would have to perform the miraculous task of winning: all three doubles matches. Coach Witzel's boys had their \baclrs t() the wall.\ · Doubles Decide Match Fighting against a team which has two All-American nominees (and a college which is the Union coach's home stamping grounds)., the Garnet had its first goals scored by Ted Detmer and Gerry Zimmerman. By the end of lilie first period, though, Cortland had followed up with three of their own. August Scor~ Elmars Jurje:vics was the big p·olnt man f.or the Garnet. He scored a double victory by wUn- . 11ing the mile and' the 880, and · }>laced !third in the t\v-o-mile run. Ell1nars~ mile victory was his sec- Union's Al' August netted a go.al ()nd best time in this event, show- with an assist by Warren Baga- lng the poss~bility of his breaking tell, again being joined by the fhe school record at the State visitors, to end the first half. · ·Champs, where he will have the co~npetiti!On to spur him on to up one run on 5 hits as be silenced to a strong season. However, be- the !big bats of the Garnet. fore the season had barely start- The lone Union tally was scored ed, Lawrence lost two J>itchers in the second inning. Ron Woth· and was forced to rely solely on !'!'Spoon started it off with a walk. • Tony Tiska for mound duty. The Tiska laced a -ball to right field discovery of Captain Dave Mit- which the right fielder managed chell and his uncanny \windrnill to get his glove on, but he could motion\ was a lifesaver for the not hold on to it and Wotherspqon Garnet. Mitch has turned in m-any advanced to second. Kr.anzmann superb pitching performances hit into a fielder's choice, advanc- this year, when not playing his ing the runners to second and strong game at shortstop. Drama was· the keynote of Wed- nesday's encounter with the \en- gineers.\ Union needed a victory After a .breather, to regain theil\ over the highly regarded Troy strength, the tennis players al- \racketeers\ to continue their un- ligned themselves for the tb:ree defeated string and the RPI men crucial game-s. Carrying the 'hoJ)es wanted nothing better than a of the Dutchmen were Vanneck spoiler's role. An engineer was and Bruce Lawton in the first overheard saying: \this is the duo, .Tohn Honey and Eric Green- game I'd really like.\ Spirit ran (Continued on Page 6) The third period ended wHh ll.is best effor.t. Union being outpointed by Cort• Dave Connery, Garnet sopho- Q-alid two to one. B<tb Baldwin , more sprinter, also scored a d:ou- scored the Garnet's solo in this . ble victory by sweeping the 100 quarter. . '. a:.nd. the 220 for his initial twin Behind six to four, Union's Big t:ritunph <>f his. career. Although Tep. fairly exploded in the last ll.is times wete not espe<iially good, period of play. Holding Cortland his was the plight of all of the pointless, Union first had Zlni· trackmen in that he just didn't merman drop in his second goal have the competition to push him. of the game. Ed Reichert then Other Garnet winners were followed suit .to tie it all up. In a ·Dave Tewksbury, 440; Bud Ger- furious struggle, with only thirty ken, hig>b hurdles; Bob Holland, seconds left in the game, Ed high jump; Tom Hoffman, twc;> LI}Zat' finaHy tallied to win in a. mlles; Norm 4very, low hurdles; perfect attack sequence. and Ohu'Ck Hanle, jav-elin. II- * * Marshall and Hanle gave their . · best perf()rmances of the season \Bruce Allison's success w1th VV:ednesday, showing -great prom- the Union College lacrosse team lse for the States. Marshail's sea- is a tr~but: to the yqunp c,?ach's son high. in the shot just go.t him deterp1mahon and tenamty. Tbis .a. second, as Middlebury's Atkin- was recently said by a loca;l col- son heaved the golden ball 48 feet, umnist,. and coul4 very well be_ re- 1.0%. inches. Hanle made his peated- -by Union itself. The longest throw in the discus and coach's popularity with his team eq11alled his best shotput, to take can serve as an. added, and per- two thirds. haps even higher, testimonia:!_ to Other bests weM marked up lby his abilities and accomplish- Tewksbury in the quarter-mile, ments. Lave:rty in the quarter, and Neil third, and Wotherspoon scored as the first baseman, Briggs, at- tempted to pick \Spoon\ off third, !but instead threw the ball into left field, movi.b.g Tiska to third. Thurston struck out and Hayden hit into a force play at the plate.· Kopec ended the inning .by grounding out to the first base\ man. Ephm.en Clinch Win Holds Highest Rooo~d Singer in the 880. The Epl)men. scored their two. runs in the fifth inning. The first batter to fa-ce Tiska, Haeff- ner, hit a ground ball which scooted through the legs of Woth- erspoon. The next hitter, Adams, hi:t a lQP.g triple over Hayden's head in right field, and only a good relay by Thursto-n prevented him from getting a round trip- per. Stegman then singled to right to score Adams with the second and the wi11ning run of the ball game for Williams. The next -batter, M'Oss, sacrificed t'he runner to second, but Briggs grounded · out. With two outs S.ummat'ies: Newton singled behind second, 'but :Holding the highest record of b t'f 1 1 by shortstop M1't !lfile ·run - 1. Jurjev!cs (U) : 2 _ a : eau 1 u P ay - Wii1S sin:oe Ra;y Mull:¢e's '54 Green {M); 3. Hoffman (U}, T- cbell prevented the balf from go- squad shared the then-Class C 4::28.5. ing into center field and kept the champi:onship, this year's Garnet ·(40cyard run-1. Tew:ksbm:x (U): runner on third. T'iska forc;:ed has s:Q.own the consis:tantly high, 2 · Laverty (U) : 3 · Bro,vn (M). T- the next batter to pop up, to end :5~.8. ca~i:ber performance, sportsiJ:i.an- ltlO-yard dash~L Connery <Ul : 2. the inning. This C'(}mpleted the ,!lhip, and fine team work which Noyes (M) : 3. Hansen (M). T- :10.2. scoring fer both teams in t'he mar ·'· a p ssible ~,.,amp· io~~-...·p Hig):l hurdles -1. Gerken (U) ;. 2. -\- 0 \\ ·=~' 1 ·. ·Eailey (M); 3. Lavery (U). T- :17.5~ gaJne. team this year. S81l-yard• run-1. Jurjevics (U): 2~ Line score: R. H. E. '\I'!he Spoon's\ Rig iB~t Ron Wotherspoon -has led the. club in hitting with better than a .400 averag~ since the middle. o-f the season. Tiska has also had his share of hits, in addition to. his fine pitching performim.ces. . Johnny Pelton has been strong at third base, and has improved con· siderably at the plate since the beginning of the year. Dick Kranzmann and Mike Semo have patrolled the outfield well, and both men have cbme up with some timely hits in some tight' spots. Jerry Thurston has hit the ball well, and he has taken over the second base chores in fine fashion. Mike Kopec, hampered by a sore arm for half the sea- son, has performed very well be- hind the plate and caught a good, stea,4y game every time ollt. (Editor's note: Harv H:ayden, exhibiting unusual modesty; neg- looted to mention his pe.rf()rm- $ce this season. Tl) rectify tliis oversgiht let it be said that tb.e little scooter exhibited good around ability, both in true and at the plate. He has great potential, both on tlle 'base- ball diamond and on the spot•ts pages of CONCORDV.) The Big Ten as of now holds a 4-2 Eoffman ,(U) ; a. SirtgEir (U) and Williams . . . . 000 020 ooo-2 6 4 Pl'ing'le (M) tiec1 .. T-2:06. n · 010 000 OQ-1 5 5 record in the Class B conference. 220-Y!\rd run-1. Connery CU) ; 2. unwn · · · · · · · · · I-!aving wen against.Steven~ Tech, Hansen (M); 3. Gel'lten (U). T-:23.2. WP--'Moss. LP-Tisl;:a. (4.2). A couple of breaks in some of the close ball games and the sea- son would have turned from a medicare one to !J. great one. However, f<>r all of the players on the team it has. been a great season: one in which everyone played and learned a lot of base- ball. As Coach Lawrence said after the Williil..ms game, ''Last year We won all the one-run .ball games; this year we just can't seem to pull 'em out.\ That is the story· of the past baseball season. Hamilton, _:Middlebury, ahd Col't- i'wo-mile run-+1. Hoffmart (U.) ; 2. · ·X> * -lt laiid State, -and having lost olose ·ro·~~~ 6 - (M) ; a. Jurjevics (U). T..-..: Dave Mitcheil, UnioJ'l College's games. to· M.J:T and Towson Sta.t!l, Low ·hurdles- 1. Lavery (U) ; 2. , regular shortstop and Coach Art the stickmen can carry them~ Gerken (U); ::1. Bailey ~M). T- :27.2. Lawrence's stopgap .pitcher, hur!- s~lv.es to the top· Lf they sweep the. High jump -1. Hplland CUl ; 2. ed a neat five-bitter and his Gar- - Cramptol), (M); 3. Rubottom (M). net te!Ullmates <:arne through with remaining gam-es.- . I'Ieight-5 feet, 8 inches. \It won't be elii,Sy,•• says Allison. Shotptrt-L Atkinson (M) :. 2, Mar- a 4-3 trillD!Ph over Rensselaer \We ltnow BlP'I wili be tou:gh, shall (U); 3. J;Ianle (U). Dlstanoe-,-.. Poly on Wednesday. -and' we'll take the other two as 48 ~eet, lo%, inches. - Mitchell fanned five without _ . , · Dtscus~1. Atkinson (M) ; 2~ Mar- wa.l'\·ing a.: ;~-atter·. He went ·the. th~y come.· Our teamwork was shall <U)·r 3. B:a.nle (U). Distance- -\' · 'JJ tqpnotch .againl>t dorHand a,nd if. 138 feet, 11%. inches. nine-inning ~·oute to rack up his · we can repeat that performance,: Nt;~~is ro}~ts-:- J~ira!tne&). \We{iht_: second vi<:tory of the sea.son as we're goin·g to hurt some'Qody.\ 10 feet, 6 Inches. Union squared its ov<;!rall cam- Tlie-C'oach gives m-ajor· credit to Bro~ti· jmi:J.P\----1. Noyes {M).: g, :Kos• paign chart at 6-6. RPI lost its co-ca.ptain defensemen B,ob Ful- ~f 0 1 ~e~\~> 6 : !~c~~~as (M). Distance sixth in ten outings. · ler,. ood goalie .John Campaill for Javeun~l. Hanle (U) ; 2. Conn Third Frame Rl!liy the tootn~s resu~gence •. \The worlr on l ~. Patterson (111:), Distance-- Union scored all ~ts runs in the 169 reet, 2~ inches, · . · {)f these two seems to inspire the. Final. score~ Union 14 %, Middle· ·third frame, whi1e the E~1gineers' othe:r boys •. '' bury llO!h. us_ually-potent hit~ers failed to ------------------·-·~ FOJt SALE: 12 Bass Accordion in excellent co11di.tion, .prae- · tically new. Prioo $25.60. can · Lance Barash DI 6-9959. :--------·----------- .................•... . - as odverfised in THE . . . . . . NEW UKEI\ • & • PLAYBOY : .. DEANSGATE authentic natural shoulder clothing Finest of authentic natural shoulder styling ••• In the newest and most practical of wash •n• wear fabrics. SPORT JACKETS ......... from $29.95 SUITS .................. -from $~9.95, ME'rt'S SHGP 1599 UPPE.R UNION STREET O~EN- THURSDAY and FRIDAY TILL 9 P.M. HOURS 9:30 to 6:00

1960 fact g-olf almost prac- greens two next course radius. team under in in Friday, May 13, 1960 5 Lacrosse: A Long Three Games Decide !Netmen Down RPI Foes Fight To Victory 1960 B~~~.~Cf:.~.~. Record/ ToContinuePerfectSiate Aided IJy a L'<J:--tl.\· L'lTur i11 t!Jt> '<'l'<•ntll irl!ling- of the gamt• ag;tin;;t l~< .. ·!w-l•·t. t!Jr' I ::1rtwl t:J:tli:t'. ··.1 ;,, J•lhl: acru.···' th.,• \lillltilr.'\ !•Ill :•llr! • 1•·11 lll' ::·,, .. ' :t·•·li ·\ 1'1<'' ,,, .. l\l'l.'l'll tf,p [1\0 l.;d]L·Iul::; ;t[ . c 111e apiecP. Tony Ti:-'ka a;...:ain \\',!,...: ..;up .. !h on thl' ·rnound for tltt· I~~c:d-: a.:. hl· . ...;eat tl·r I'd t 1\'t• h 1L~ :t<fltong ,. !1· · uppo~itlldl ,lJ:tl tt·l\ Til• u!d\ 1 \- Waldman To Leave By St'l've Diclre-rman \Bruce you've come a long way!\ said the Cortlanct coach, ln.st Satu.rday, as his team bowed 7-6 to the Big- Ten. In a sea.son whtch has been highlighted by home victol'ie,:; and by away defeats, the~·----~ --· -·.~~-~~--- Garnet stickmen produced I .. their best season in many Thznclads Romp years. \We had our best team effort in three seasons Over Middlebury against Cortland Saturday and the three-goal rally in the fourth period shows my guys never quit,\ said Alli- son. Fighting against a t~am which has two All-American nominees <uml a college which is the Union conch's home stamping grounds l, the Garnet had its first goals scot·ed by Ted Detmer and Gerry Zimmerman. By tl1P end of the first period. though, Cortland had followed up with three of their own. August Scores Union's AI AugLSL netted a s-oal with an assist by Warren Baga- tt'll, again being joined by the vl:nturs, to end the first half. The third period ended with Union being outpointed by Cort- land two to one. Bob Baldwin scored the Garnet's solo in this quarter. Behind six to four, Union's Big Ten fairly exploded in the last period of play. Holding Cortland pointle~s. Union first had Zim- merman drop in his second goal of the game. Ed Reichert then followed suit to tie it all up. In a furious struggle, with only thirty seconds left in the game, Ed Lazar finally tallied to win in a perfect attack sequence. )(- * * \Bruce Allison·s success with the Union College lacrosse team is a tribute to the young coach's determination and tenacity.\ This was recently said by a local eol- nr.mist, and could very well be re- peated by Union itself. The coach's popularity with his team cah serve as an added, and per- haps even higher, testimonial to his abilities and accomplish- ments. Holds Highest Record Holding the highest record of wins since Ray Mullane's '54 squad shared the then-Class C championship, this year's Garnet has shown the consistantly high caliber performance, sportsman- ship, and fine team work which mark a possible championship team this year. The Big Ten as of now holds a 4-2 record in the Class B conference. Having won against Stevens Tech, Hamilton, Middlebury, and Cort- land State, and having lost close games to MIT and Towson State, the stickmen can carry them- selves to the top if they sweep the remaining games. \It won't be easy,\ says Allison. \We know RPI will be tough, and we'll take the other two as they come. Our teamwork was topnDtch against Cortland and if we can repeat that performance, we're going to hurt somebody.\ The Coach gives major credit to co-captain defensemen Bob Ful- ler, and goalie John Camp ani for the team's resurgence. \The work of these two seems to inspire the other boys.\ By Leslie Ma!TUs Union College's track leam swept all of the running events and took ten of 14 first places to scor·e a 74'·\·50 1 ·2 tl'iumph over Middlebury College at home on \'l'ednesday. The victory ·was ! he second far the Dutchmen thin clads in five dual meet starts. Elmars Jurjevics was the Lig point man for the Garnet. He scored a double victory by win- ning the mile and the 880, ancl placed third in the two-mile run. E!mars' mile victmy was his sec- ond best time' in this event. show- ing the possibility of his breaking the school record at the State Champ~. where he will have the competition to spur him on to his best effort. Dave Connery, Garnet sopho· more sprinter, also scored a dou- ble victory by sweeping the 100 and the 220 for his initial twin tr-iumph of his career. Although his times were not especially good, his was the plight of all of the trackmen in that he just dictn•t have the competition to push him. Other Garnet winners wet·e Dave Tewksbury, 440; Bud Ger- 1\en, high hurdles; Bob Holland. high jump; Tom Hoffman, two miles; Norm Lavery, low hurdles; nnd Chuck HanlP, javelin. Marshall and Hanle gave their best performances of the season Wedne~day, showing great ·Pl'Oill- ise for the States. Marshall's sea- son high in the shot just b\Qt him a second, as Middlebury's Atl\in- son heaved the golden ball48 feet, 10\'• inches. Hanle made his longest throw in the discus and equalled his best shotput, to take two thirds. Other bests wei'€ marked up by Tewksbury in the quarter-mile, Laverty in the quarter. and Neil Singer in the 880. &ummar.ies: :\Tile run -- 1 JuJjevics (t'): 2 •;n·~n c~l); 3. Hoffman (U). T- 1 :28.5. HO-yanl run-1. T~wl<sbmy n·>, ~- Laverty I{\): 3. Brown ll\1). T- :::i::!.)\. 100-yard clnsh---1 l 'mlll~ry <l · l : 2. ~nyes (~1): 3. Hansen <M). T~:!0.2 High hurdles-- 1. f;erhn (l'); ~ Bailey (;\!): 3. La\'l't\Y I Vl. T-- :17 5. l>l<O-yard run-1. Jurjevi<'S Cl'): 2. Hoffman (l.): 3. Singer 1l'1 and !'ringle (!\!) tietl. T-2:on. ~20-yarrl run-1 ronnery ( !') ; 2. Hansen(~!): 3. Clerl<en (VI. T- :2:!.2. Two-mile run-!. Hoffman (['); 2. nreen (~I): 3. Jorjevil's (U). T- 10 :18.6. Low hurdleR -1. Lavery (l'): 2. Clerken (Ul; 3. Bailey Ol). T- :~7.2 High jump-1 Hollantl (l'J; 2 l'rampton (:\! l : 3. Hubottorn 01 ). I feight-fl feE>t. R inrhes. Shotput-1. Atl<inson 0'1\: 2. 1\lar- shall (l'): 3. Hanle (!\). fllstame- 18 feet, 10'11, in~hes. flis<•us~l. Atlrinson C:\ll: 2. :\lar· shall ll'): 3. Hanlo (l'l. Dl.,tanre-- 138 feet, II 'Y., lnrhes. Pole vault ~ 1. Jones ( 1\[) ; 2. :\\it·lwls <U,l: 3. Sr·haaf (\cl. Helght- IU feet, 6 mehes. Bro!'<l jump-1. :s'oyes IM); 2. Kos- low sin <~'ll_: 3. Lm·as 0!). Dlstnnee -::0 f<'et, o inches. Ja1·elin-l. Hanle Ill): 2. Cotlll 01); 3. f'attel'flOll 01). Dlstame- 159 feet. 2'.; lnrlles. Final score- Union 74 1.2. ~lidtlle· bury ~0~. tl ;t •tJ,t~l' t!lt fIll l !it ·, 1,1:\1 , l ll ,., Ill! I \111 Ill 1 tIt' I II ~- t Ill l' I I l : l•:J-.t .-,cit tJ !·.y tlw J,ght :--!t tIll Ill I ; \II' i;' \\ • 11' : rJJ t!ro· 1\':1'; ''ll tL, 11111\lli·l fcol ]~lhl.•'-· tl'l 'tlld ~·l•·ld··d tltl:•· hrt-.. 1~1d Iolii I \lll'- d111 Ill).! tIll' lo dl _' l '!It ('olltt·-.t Ti•·•l ': .... J '' '\ ' \J \.,. Hu ... j..,..,llt· \\,t..., ~;oing tn 1\'•· ....... i,t \\.a~ lt•:u·u .. ,t t:ha-t ( ~··rrv \\\aill'rnar1 n' •.tltl hi' h·a\ in~ t:, t•.th.t· a ... iruil:t.l pu,jt.iflrt a-.. tratll· ·f' a·t lloJ·..,t.a \\ ~!ld,u~trl. \,aid C'.ttllt· t·u lllinll iu l~J-Jj allt•f .tl.t•·.r~,l:l!~ ~priu:.;lidd h.a...,; •.. t,rn- ••1 :.h,- hi~~· l\t ..,JH I 1· t,f lu1fh • ·•.:• :), ... rnd .1t'-!• f• .... durin:.: hi ... 1 ! . ' . f.t\ 'h• ,, I' I; l'hoH.'t•, 'Ti;-;ka fon:ed tL• Jl•·Xt b;d ·''· ,. 11. ,,!f• 1 111,..._ c1! .\Itt• !wll l\UI ~ tt'I\ F'o1t\. to hit UH· ball un tlw Illlllt tfl;tn ~ltt;...,l• t' tlli··~ 111 tht· j ground tu Thurston. I•Ut tlw t)'lllt! ...,, .. , ond '''.L :,'ld :-<, . ._ t 1 t!I tr <~llr•·:-; ' t·un :-'C'dl't>d Oil tht• pl:t\' T!ll1\' Ed Ft:u.k UI )J'._, i· -Pilll'' IuutUld~~ I do\\·n,·tl th•· Il\'Xt t·,,-., batt•·L, t~ 1 ''\'''· n!ll•·l···l •[,,. l11 ; ~ • fact· hiln in onh·t\. ! J,Jirn:l\ P~ !ton ·tl•d .It'll\' 'Chur .. - It V\'aS tht• botton1 h:df (Jf' thP ,.( 111 1' 1 ' •·d [\: ~t\•lltllt ;tt·ta<..\k' :'t'Vl'l1tli inning that tul<.l tht· ~tuty \\ :1.1 1 t \\\ ·• :. ·'J·~· ... -:,( i1 Thur...:toll uf thP hall gallll', Tht• f1r;-;t h:tttt 1 ,.::ot 1t.•· O!l \ •- \tt ·' L t ... t·l. 1 du~ddt· for thv Gmnd. \\•otherspoon, ~in- In tho· J,j~ thll·•l. :IIJtchell ;.;let! to left. Big Hun lumht·J·t··l lo d off J,, dz.twi:J;.: ,, I·\~' anu aruunU to thitd as Dick Kr.ttll- rtliJ\\t·~l :11 fJIJ!.1I on f 1 ,·lt\flll';o-; .sir!glt· mann Bingled sharply into center. BDth 1 lL.rH·r> >l\Orl'd wh.:n a ball Then Thurston hit a ground ball hit by !tun \\'ut lwr,;poun ,;ktddl'd down to the shortstop, Fort<•, and thtuu;.:h lht• intklc! for an e-rror. thE' ball went through his legs, Tltut'~'<ton th•·n h<\!t< tl a double allowing Wotherspoon to cross the lo s•or•· \\'uth•·rspoon ant! :\like plate, with what later proved to .E:van,; calli•· thruuglr with a ~in­ be the winning tully. ;:lc to seore Thur~t on with the ~k·f0:t~W~S·',. .---...-·-~ .. :::-, Lew Btu·lcman gri:Itm<·•·-. a\ lw !<•au\ into tht· IHtll, \''IHiin~o; it' lmrlin~ a.c·ru\-; tht• nd.., fur anoi'IH·r l'nion vil'lory. llttZ'/Iill~o; pc·r- fornuuH·o·, all around luw.· lt·d to Hu· llPtnli'It'-. umlo·f<':tlo•d .,,.:t..,Bn. By Bob Slwrwin A partisan l'l'UWd IJI·oke out in a l'a:\ll uf ~potJtam•,JU~ applau~e a~ the l't1iun College netlnL'll \'all<llli:-d!t'd a .!e- te rmined l~en~::;ehll'l' team in the mo~t t hl'illi n~· tenni~ nwtcn of this highly sut-•-~ Wotherspoon, Ti:;ka, and Kopec fourth 1 u n. lessful ;-;ea~on. Dy virtue of high through luth -'•Ju:ul~. Thl,; the IU'l \ irtory on \\'edne::;- was tl~<· ~>[Jth rw<·LnJ.; lwtw•·\n the l'ach ha<l two hits apiecC' to aid Liiw sco• ,. H. H. E. the Garne-t cause, and Tiska tul'n- ed in an excellent pitching- per- fonnance a,; well, to help Cnion gain theit· fifth win against fiw setbacks. Line score: H. H. E. Rochestet· . . 100 010 100 -3 5 5 Union ..... , 210 000 lOx- 4 9 0 \'\'P --Tiska. LP Guche. *' 71· .;\· Tony Tisl<a lunwtl in a beauti- ful game on the mound for tlH' Dutchmen against V\'illiam,; lust Tuesday, ·but •his tt·amnwt<'s gm·p him very little suppo1·t in the field a.< the Ephmen, from across the mountains, handed Union their sixth loss of the season. The game was onlv the second win fo.r \'1/il- lia.ms a·gainst 11 setbacks. Art Moss went all the wav on the mound fot· the visitors 'and guve up one run on 5 hits as he silenced the big bats of the Garnet. The lone Union tally was scored in the second inning. Ron Woth- erspoon startl'J it off with a walk. Tiska laced a ball to right field which the right fielder managed to get hi~'< glove on, hut he could not hold on to it and \Votherspoon advanced to second. Krnnzmann hit into a fielder's choice, advanc- ing the runners to second and third. and Wotherspoon scot·ed as the first baseman, Bl'isgs, at- tempted to pick \Spoon\ off third. but instead threw the ball into left field, moving Th;lm to third . Thurston struck out and Hayden hit into a force play nt the plat<'. Kopec ended the inning by grounding out to the first hase- man. EphnlPll Clill<'h l\'in The Ephmen scored their two runs in the fifth inning. The first battPr to faPc' Ttska. Haeff- ner. hit u ground ball ·which .scooted through thP Jpgs of \\'oth- et·spoon. The next hitter, Adams, hit a long tl'iplC' o1:c•r HaydPn's head in right field, and only a good rei a~· by Thurston pt·even ted him from getting a round trip- per. StL'g-man then singled to right to score Adams with the second and the winning run of the ball gam~ for V\'illiam:'<. The- next batter, Moss. sacrificPd the runner to second, but Briggs grounded out. With two outs Newton singled behind second, but a ·beautiful play by shortstop Mit- chell prevented the hall from go- ing into center field and lwpt the runner on third. Tiska forced the next batter to pop up, to end the inning. This completed the scoring for both teams in the game. Line score: R. H. E. Williams .... 000 020 000--2 6 4 Union . . . . . . . 010 000 oo-1 5 5 WP-Moss. LP-Tisl<a (4.2). .y. ·X· ¥- Dave Mitchell, Union College's regular shortstop and Coach Art Lawrence's stopgap pitcher, ·hurl- ed a neat five-hitter and his Gar- net teammates came through with a 4-3 triumph over Rensselaer Poly on Wednesday. Mitchell fanne-d five without walking a batter. He went the nine-inning route to rack up his second victorv of the season as Union squared its overall cam- paign chart at 6-6. RPI l·ost its sixth in ten outing-s. Third Frame Rally Union scored all its runs In the third frame, while the Engineers' usually-potent hitters failed to 2 da\· and a Saturdav \\'in over t\vo tt·aul:- 111 :t ···t~nt·:-< \·hich ln·- lb;rtiYick C'ullette the Dutch- ..:an in 19 !f; 'l'nion won l3. HPI T.:nio:t . . liU! UCJO 000 -·! 7 It l' I Ul U fi(J1 lUU 3 [i \\'P--:IIitdt<>ll. LP F1:mk. .. :151. The Ga I'll<'! <'ombata.r.t~ 1!. v\'~it}) OD}y tii!-L't' galllt•:-; lt•ft (JI\ the \'<'hniuJ 1ur tln:-. :-ot'i.l~un. thl· U;Jt nt·t nint' gu into tht· ball h<-Hllt· :-':rttu,l:ty, ag;un't RPI, with \ w:n-lu>'> l'ecor·t! of 6-•;. The Dut<\h· J'!:lt·n n••.•d to w11:1 thL\ ga.nlt· Satut tlar. i.l:::i Wl'H H:-1 t l.t-> t\\-o !lt>Xt \\\t···k \\'lt h 1'1 :t tt a.ntl :\!t•l'• \\· in 01 del to cunH· up \\'Jth ;t ~l~G !'l ennl and t \'vt y ~ UlTl·;-;~ful :-;t·a~un. men eme1·ged from the dueb the 1900 etlit1on of thi,- n, t c!a,;,;il' wiLl! a pe1·fect 7-0. \ . ..,, . .., out to :t\'t'n,:,• la>t \\a,;on',; ti-3 loss. Amid Spt·ing Prom fe,;tivities. ·r \-'t·uup of Hartwick racl{l'\men tz uttl'tl onto L'nion',; tennis court~ with the hope of toppling the Gar- cwt frum tlw nml'~ of the un- beatt•n. But. the \Witzell\ids\ ]'l'oVP<l tun Btl ung for the bovs from the Oneont'' 'chool. OncP th•• n .. tmc·n had C'nmpll'!ed thr six single~ n1atche.s. the gatne v..·a$ actually \in the ba~.\ The 6-3 wi11 wa,; thl' sixth straight for l'nion',; eharge-;. Th(·n thl' Gat·- net awaitcc.l arch·rtval Rensselaer. a It-am tl.tt·V had not beaten since lfl39. ' A thL' lll'~I nni.n.: of tht· -..t·a~on • hillgs Juokt tl t•Xtl<'ln<'ly bright for tht• J,;.,chnll team. \\'!th mall\' f I !JlrliSillg ll£'1\\.• faet•S and ·with 'iiOSt of la:-;t yPnr':; tt~arn haC'k. Coach L·nvn·nce looked fonvanl to a st1 ong s.t·a~on. Ho\\'(l\\t·l'. h!·- fore th 1 • sPa.<un had bal't·ly staz·t· Drama was the k~vnote of \Ved- 1 nP>da,·s encounter ~,·ith the \en- \' Lni\'J't·nre lo<t two pit<'ltl'l>' . ' .. • . . a.th! \\':t< forc· .. d to t·..Jv \nlf'!v on ,.;1 neer,;. L mon Iwedt•J a vzctory Tony Ti~lw for moun,! dutv. ·The 1 ~ver tlw .~zghly l'l'grrrded . Troy di«'!l\'<>1\' of c•., 1 ,, it D· ; . ::\.I't-1 rat·kett'el'~'< to contmue theu· un- ' ' .a 1 ·~'•' • I d f t l t 'n d th RPI eh<'ll ant! his UnC'nnny \windmill' \ ea f'l s 1'1 g an e tnen motion' \\'as a Jif,•s:I\'t'l' fur tlH· wantc,~ nothmg !Jf•tte~ than a G:Jl·nl'l :\litl'h has turn•·d in man\ ,.;potlet·s role .. An engt_nee_r was _ . . , . ' uvPrlHcaz·d sann;:: \tht5 ts the ~utH': l> p!!.t' '>in:.: J••·r·fortrWill\\\ ... . .• -. . .. · .· • thi>' year. wh\n not playing his ~-ltlll' I d I call~ llke. Spult ran A,; tht• f11 ,ot ,., • n '-' ' odi ..t '·d uvt 'I the net thPre h\gan n. '<:t of wdl· foug-ht and hanl-play<'d ,;ingle:-J events. \\.hen the ~mokP had cleared from the fray the picture t\'a..~ quite bhek fut· tht• l'nion stalwat t~. HL•ns~eb t·r· wa.!'\ It ading 1-2. Tht• onl)' bt·i)!llt ,;pot,; h••· ing- tht• vtctoril·,; pnnllH'ttl by Jay \'annecl' and Enc Gt·t·••nbu;;h. If the Garnd \H'H' tv remain unbeat- en, they woulu ha , ... to Jll't·form the tniraeulr>U~ ta.!-ik of \\\inning all thl'<'•' double\' ruatch••; Co·•ch \\'itzel'l\ bo1·~ had thc•Ir \tJHPk< to the wall.\ - nouhlc>s Deridt> :\Iatdt Aft•·r a brt•atllr·r. to l'f\~.dn th•·ir <treng-th. th,· tt·nni~ playl'J'~ al· li~nt•d tbem~l'J\~{'-. fot· til,. thrt·t• C'l'UCial ganlt'~. C'at'l ring- th~· hopt'~ of the Dutchm<'l1 '.\'<'''-' \'a.nnt·cl{ :tnd Brttc<: LO\'I.'ton in tlH' flrst duo . .'ohn Hon,•y'lnd Eti<: Gr,'Pll· (Continued on Pag<· 61 ..;;tron~ ;!a.nle at :--hortst.np. .,-------------------·-~----------- \T'he Spoon's\ Big Bat Ron \Yotlwr;;poon has ll'd the l'luh in hittmc: with hdtt>r than a . ·!nO nvct·agt' sinct' th .. middlt- of tht• ~· ason. Ti,.;ka ha:< also had his Rhn I'<' of hi 1H, ir. acid it ion to hi~ fin\ pitching po•rformanet·\· Johnny PPlton has h•'••n strong- :.t third l•:t>'<'. an<! ha.~ intp! O\'t'd <'un- \idl'ta.bly a.t 1lw pl:ttr• ~inc.~· tltt·. hP;~inninc: <>f 1 ht• \'t•a.r Di('k 1 Krnnzm:1 nn a.n<l :\! il«: 8 .. mo ha vc patrolkcl the ontflt'ltl w,·H. azhl both lllt'll hn.\·~ como· up wit.h snrnr- tinlPl~; hit~ in ~onlP ti~ht \pot~. J<'I'I'Y 'Thur-tnn h~~ hit the hall \\ dl. nne\ lw h:1s takPn o\'0'1' the second ln,.:;p chon·~ in f1H1 1 • fashion :\likr• EopPP. hamp .. r••<l by a sore arm for half t h<' sr·n· son, has JH'rfoJ m•·tl vc-I-v W<'ll b•·· ' hind tht> plat<' and 'caught a ' good. steady gamP c\'t·ry tinw out i (Ediior\s not<': Harv Ha,rd<'n,j <>xhibiting unusual mo·dP't~·. nt•g- I il'd.•d to nwntion hi'< pPrfnrm- I all<'!' thio.; st>a•on. Tn rPI'tify this : o\'Pr'lg-iht IPt It bP said Umt tlw I littiP scoott>r PXhihitPd !('nod all 1 arnund ability, hnth in th·· fif'ld \ and at tlH• plate. HP has shDwn I grPat potf'nt.ial, bnth on tlw hnsP- ha.II diamond and on tht• sport• Jllt~c·-; of CO:-if'ORDY. l A couplt' of brl':1k~ in ~onlP of t-llP clos0 l1nll ganH~ nnd thfl ~ea­ Bon \\'Otlld havf' tunwd from a ml'dioC!'P onr to a g-n·at on•·· HowPVL'I\ for all of tllf' play<·•·s 1 on th~ tram It hns hl'L'n a grPat II season; onc> in which £•\'Pt·vonP played and lrarn<'d a lot of baM-1 hnll. As C'onC'h LnwrenP<' Rnitl after the WillinmR ;:nmc. \Lnst y(~at· \Ve \Von a-ll thP onr>-run hnll gnme>'; this year \\'P jn><l ell n't , RPPm to pnll 'pm out\ That Is. the story of the pn~t basPballj sPnson. I ~---------------------, I 1 FOR SALE: 12 Bass A<'<'Or\llon t . I in <\XCell<>nt condition, prac- t : 1 ti<'ally new, Price $25.00. caul I t 1 Lance Barash DI 6-9959. I I I ~---------------------J ..................... os advertised in THE NEW IOIU\EI\. & PLAYBOY ..................... DEANSGATE authentic natural shoulder clothing Finest of authentic natural shoulder styling •.• in the newest and most practical of wash 'n' wear fabrics. SPORT JACKETS from $29.95 SUITS from $39.95 MEW'S SHOP 1599 UPPER UNION STREET OPEN THURSDAY and FRIDAY TILL 9 P.M. HOURS 9:30 to 6:00

Friday, May 13, 1960 Student Council (Continued from Pagel) 0--------------- inatory clauses are often imposed most successful spring weekends upon the locals by the nationals. at Union. Bob Hollaud, sopho-. Ticknor ... (Continued from Page 3) pus with restrictive ra;cial and claim, be afraid to act. They T:he Union College Choi·r wHl religious clauses. Censure this may be afraid to \rock the boat.\ . present its final concert of the practice! Expunge the clauses! They too may believe in .. the so- year Sunday evening .from seven Racia:l bigotry should not and called \uatural course of events.\ until eight in Men::1.0rial Oha:pel. can not be condoned at Union Our leaders may prove t<l be The Choir will sing the Requiem College! timid, weak and va;cillating-un- by Ga;briel F<J.ure and the M:ass Although viewing this motion more class president, expressed as harshly worded, Ken Hoyt the hope that Union could con- c,ountered this objection by de- tinue to have bigger and better claring that the discriminatory proms with the fine entertain- clause is something which every- ment that was offered during one recognizes as an evil and last weekend. should be eliminated. Stressing The Council adjourned for the the antiquity of these practices, year with congratulations to Ed be pointed out that these clauses Ruth for his fine job as president were set u.p fifty to a hundred of the student body. years ago. Boyt concluded, there- o--- who inha'bit city and county selilts of power. This citadel of resist- ance to reform is not the kind of force to change ·~he status quo by persuasion. Where can. art effective force of persuasion come from? On the national .political scene, the President of the United States is the one key figure who can use the tremendous moral po:wer of the presidency to pull forward by persuasion,. to praise and spur on ward people of good will on both sides, and to condemn hate peddlers. Unfortunately, however, the .present occupant of 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue believes in local solutions to so-called local problems, The President believes in fighting for the \big issues,\ lilte \peace\ and \prosperity an:d' we can expect little or no ·moral support from this genial man on a little issue like eradicating the cancerous sore of racial discrim- ination from the American scene. Students. take Initiative · willing t'O hnplement principles in G .by Franz Schubert. This with action. Do they repl'esent · concert wHl take the place of the This is one area where the Ad- the majority point of view? , This usual Community Vesper Service. ministration and Trustees, hope- ·is the sad and crucial question. Dr, Robert Campbell will dtrect fully at the initiative of the stu-. Deny it. Tell them to act!· For the Choir, and Mi•, Duncan Trot- dent •body, could, if they cared it takes people to change the sta- ·ter Gillespie will be at the organ enough, follow Dartmouth's exam- tus quo. console, The sopt'ano soloi::,t is ple, and use their coel'cive powe1'S But if the students should be Mrs. Sally &Jars Mack, the tenor to eliminate what amounts to blind, then Jet the enrightened soloist Mr. Schuyler Todd, and; sanctioned discrimination at Un- take steps to enlighten. \Nous the ,baritone, Mr. Lyle Jewell. Th~· i'On College. devenons tous freres sous le loi choir and soloists will be .. ~gc9ni•l The Student Council will con- de Minerve,\ only when Minerve parried not only i):>y the organ, 'but sider this problem tonight, They . corrects erring members of her also by a small O!'Ch~stra of pro- fore, that ft,aternity men should not be forced to accept these conditions in a world where atti- tudes and ideas have changed. Tennis. o • may, as some 'Of our classmates own brood. fessiona1 musicians. Also feeling that the motion was severely worded, Lawton Morrison, freshman class presi- dent, feared that the motion had many dangerous implications as welt as being vague in not ac- tually outlining a definite course of action. On this basis, it was moved that the motion be tabled indefinitely. The Council voted in favor of tabling. (Continued from Page 5) bush in the second doubles, and captain Lou Buckman and Gary B'inde·r comprised the third team. Hoyt, member of the Honors Committee, outlined two plans fot· achieving greater student honesty in the academic area. Cne, the more optimistic ap- proach, was centered around greater individual responsibilities. including unproctored exam rooms, outside examinations, and research works. The other, its antithesis, porposes a tightening up of the existing policies with more l'i·gid proctoring and closer examination of the originality of student papers. Advocates of the latter system favor it in the be- lief that the resulting reaction will cause an immediate accept- ance of the honors system. As the games progl'essed, all eyes turned to the f1rst match which pitted Vanneck and Law- ton against two of RPI's finest. The contest was one of the most dramatic seen on the college cam- pus in recent years. Fighting an uphill battle all the way, the Un- ion team was able to defeat their fine opponents in three sets. A star in his own right, Vanneck praised the RPI duo: \they played a whale of a game, I guess we were just lucky.\ When Green- bush and Honey won in straight sets only the outcome of the num- ber three game was in doubt. The remaining spectatol's rushed to view the deciding contest. Then suddenly Buc!{man smashed the ball past one of the RPI players and the match was Union's. The battle for racial equality will continue to be fought in the courts as counsel ·for the plaintiff seeks legal remedies for segrega- tion and race prejudice, And de- spite the President's repeated statements to the contrary, law does make a difference in race re- lations. Law helps prejudice to disappear by making people con- form at least overtly to a non- discriminatory pattern of conduct. Law pulls by persuasion, at the same time it necessarily pushes The Prom Committee, repre- sented by Peter Houlihan, report- ed on the success of Spring Week- end. Boulihan pointed out some of the financial problems which arose in connection with the Hi· Lo Concert. Nevertheless, the weekend was hailed as one of the Now only Rochester, Hamilton, and Trinity stand before Union and their first undefeated season in years. The Trinity encounter appears to be a difficult one, but the players look to the future with confidence. At the beginning of the season Witzel asserted: \If the potential that is pl'esent is reached Union men can look for- ward to victory on the tennis com·ts.\ His expectations have now been fulfilled, Letters To The Editor (Continued from Page 2) as soon as your group began to perform, The pe·ople in attend- ance were delighted and more than satisfied with the evening. Thank you again for your un- derstanding and your extra ser- vice. Sincerely, Peter Houlihan * ·X· ;<- At the student council meeting of May 10, I incorporated -into my final report on the Spring Prom a11 explanation for the de- Jay of the Hi-Lo's initial appear- ance. I would like to also com- municate the circumstances to the student body. Our committee was the victim of some unethical dealings, car- ried out by one,. Bud Torrini, who acted as our agent. Torrini lead us to believe that during the course of the preliminary or ver- bal contract that he was obtain- ing the services of the Hi-Lo's as the single attraction for the per- formance. It was not until two hours before the concert, at the practice session, that we learned from the Hi-La's that Torrini had contracted them for only 45 min- utes, and had planned to fill in the remainder of the show with a local band. Upon a most intense re-reading of our separate ·contract, we real- ized that what appeared to be strictly an accompanyment band could be stretched legally to mean a separately performing band. Yet Torrini had always verbally promised us a pm·formance for the duration of the program by the H;i-Lo's. He had then delib- erately contracted them for just 45 minutes at a cost of $1,400. We paid our agent $2,100 for the con- cert. The Hi-Lo's, through their kind- ness and consideration, ex:tended their performance t·o satisfy the expectations of the audience. I an1. extremely gra:teful to this group for their gesture. I feel that they have established them- selves as not only excellent en- tertainers, but also as men of the highest calibre. Peter Houlihan '61 ~--------------------~- ; LUIGI•s i I I I RESTAURANT I I I 1 Specialblng in 1 I Italian-American food I I 1125 BARRETT ST. I l Schenectady Dl 6-9744 't ~ 10'1 0 Discount to Union Men ! Enioy Our I I Sizzling Steaks end Chops I ~---------------------! by cornp·ulsion. Law is not the whole answer to the problem of eliminating rac- ial discrimination, but it certainly is an essential part of it, especi- ally when given effective moral and political support. One can only hope that the next President of the United States will care enough about civil rights to use his great powers and do some- thing. Just as effective leadership is needed on the national level, it is als·o needed on the campus. We have no Negroes demonstrating to 'be served at Fleishman's cafe- terias-although there is an oc- casional food riot or two- but we do have fraternities on this cam- AT GRADUATION Amandus-You'll make the scene with a gift from M au- rice B. Gr.aubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay Street. Like they've been swingin' for 3 generations. Wires EARN OVER $1000 THIS SUM'ME'R Students and Teachers Needed as Dealers Locally and In Your Own Home Town. Use of Car Required. Bob Dice in Youngstown, Ohio made $500 one week, as much as many students earn all year. Gary Gwilliam of the University of California won a $500 scholar- ship for sales last summer ·of over $6,000. Beverly Coleman of Mhicigan sold over $4,000, and Ed M.JIIigan had a $1 ,000 week this fall to top off a fine summer of sales and profits. Ed is a student at the Robert Mor- ris College in Pittsburgh. There are opportunities for more College Dealers in 1960 and we are looking for interested young men and women. As the world leader in its fie'ld, our Company ·has a backgro.und of $1 00,000,000 annual sales by dealers and a reputation of top quality merchandise. For Details, Write, Wire,.or Phone Mr. Don DeLand \\\ College Divisio,na Stanley Home Products Westfi~ld~ Mass. • WHAT D'YA HEAR IN THE BEST OF CIRCLES? r a aroun Leads the league for flavor! That's Schaefer, the beer with the smooth round taste, .. never sharp, never flat. It's REAL BEER! It's America's Oldest Lager Beer. TilE F. & M. SCHAEFER BREWlNG 00, NEW YORK and ALBANY, N.Y. •

