1962 • • ) the , on : prob- ' of St. dders are se of he of- per- upset fa- RUSSIAN IMPRESSIONS Page 2 Vol. 92 - No. 3 Founded at Union College ln 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1962 1 Eleven To Host Alfred In First Home Clash OUT OF THE PAST Page 2 PRICE 15 CENTS Weeks Cites Role Of Dogtna In Art t College Council Meets The position of tlhe student and . his responsibility toward the col- i lege were discussed at the first l1i meeting of the \All College ''Forces'' Submit Studies By Ed Smolar Union College's long range A comparison between Russian and American writing styles was made by Edward Weeks, Honorary Chancellor of Union University at Wednesday's convocation. He con- ' ' trasted the greater stylistic 0 Council\ on Octobe1· 1. Participating in the discussion were Pl:esident Carter Davidson, Dean 0. Edward Pollack, Pro- fessors Carl Anthony Niemeyer, i Norman A. Mercer, David Ken- neth Baker, and Henry Gilbert Harlow. President of the Student Body Edward Skloot, Class Presi- dents Jeff Fulmer, Victor Fazio, and Ray Gilmartin, Chairman of the Student Council \Student Life Committee\ Al Schwartz, and President of the I.F.C. Ken Pay- ' ment also attended. litcreasing Role planning program, has produced · iiln0vations that will affect every ·member of the college commun- ity. They will involve immediate academic improvements, moderni- zation of the college physical plan, and long range plans for the futu1·e. It was decided that neither the faculty nor the student body is bound by any suggestion of the All College Council. Basic rules Pictured above are Union stalwarts Dave Eales and Pete Burgwald. for future meetings were estab- lished. Smarting from a disappointing 34-0 loss to St. Law- The major academic improve- ment is the new Honors Program under which students having a 3.0 index may elect honors courses in ~he English, Economics, History, Government, Philosophy, Biology, and Mechanical and Electrical Engineering departments. This triggered off other innovations, such as the bolstering of the Eng- lish, Economics, History, and Bio- logy departments by the contract- ing of new staff members. Other 'lcademic improvements include the opportunity for senior under- graduates to take advantage of the graduate level courses in mathematics offered by the eve- ning division, the increase of the scholarship fund by $QO,OOO and the Cultural and Academic Fund by $2,000. Edward Skloot, Student Body renee last weekend, the Garnet will be making their first President, feels that \this group home appearance of the current season against Alfred of faculty and student represen- U · •t t 2 00 PM t • tatives will serve an increasingly mvers1 Y a : • o-, important function in future mdeorrrFioyvelda.fternoon on Alexan- Skt• dmore Joins years. It is the first student- faculty organization designed to In seeking their initial success Campus Modernization Campus modernization is an- other recommendation of the enocurage open discussion of rna- the Dutchmen will be working to Union In Class jor issues facing the college co~- ·avoid becoming the vietims of munity. Chances are that we Will grid history as Alex Yunevich, accomplish much. Chances are the Saxon head coach, in his better that if we don't we'll at twenty-fifth season} will be seek- least know why we didn't. Most ing the one-hundredth victory of assuredly, this is merely the first his career. Since 1937, he has step in faculty-student coopera- compiled an admirable 99-46-8 tion.\ record, and so far this year Al- \I like girls in a class,\ said Aims Program which will be rea- Professor Alfred E. Ym:1man, of lized this year. It will be high- the Classical Language Depart- lighted by the demolition of ment, \for three reasons: they Washburn Hall in January, and provide friendly competition which its ultimate replacement by two adds to progress, the boys are wings on the Schaffer library. not as sloppy as usual, and there These will house facilities for the is a different class atmosphere.\ modern language, classics, art, Beanies are required of all AI • A • d freshmen in attendance. umnt l fred has a one and one slate, in- . eluding a loss to Cortland and a Youman is referring to Kath- and speech departments. The erine Rose, a freshman at Skid- bookstore will be moved to the more, who is presently enrolled Nott Memorial and the student in his Reading of Selected Pl'Ose activities to Old Gym . ·Fund Drt· ve 12-8 victory over Brockport last Saturday. Tomorrow's meeting of the in Latin. Katherine is the first The most radical plan for the girl to ever take a course at Un- future is the modification of the ion in the day session. From the school calendar and creation of school's standpoint, greater econ- three \trimesters which is cur- amy is effec.ted. Skidmore does rently under the special study of not offer classical languages, so Professor Baker and his commit- Miss Rose was obliged to come to tee. Other proposals include the Union where she is paying the doubling of faculty salaries over A meeting· of the Union Col- lege Society of Class Agents has been scheduled for Friday eve- ning and Saturday 'on the college campus. A;pproxim.ately fift¥ Un- ioa alumm who w1ll assist m the 51st annual fund campaign are expected to attend. Dutchmen and Saxons will be the third since the series .began in 1960, and both teams boast one victory. Last year's contest saw the Saxons emerge 12-6 victors, on the basis of two fourth period touchdowns resulting from a pair of blocked punts. regular fee for the course. the next ten years, to place the Heading the meeting is Ral- ston B. Reid, a 1930 graduate of Union who is general manager of advertising and sa.les promotio;n at General Electric Co. and presi- dent and general manager of Maqua Co., a wholly-ov:ned Gen- eral Electric printing company. He was elected national chair- man of the 51st annual fund last The Marasmen will as usual work out of their wing-T offense while Alfred will utilize their si~ler tight .r. Both Maras and Y unevich will be relying on cer- tain key lettermen, but the fate of both teams lies in the perform- ance of their sophomores. Last week the Garnet had as many as eight sophs in the game at one time while Alfred's second year halb~ck Bob Baker gain e d Bending Backwards I Union College faculty into a fl- u . . t t nancial position comparable to mon, m a ges ure o encour- C . d p 6) age more such commuters, is ( entmue on age bending over backwards to cater I . .· spring. Hemenway To Speak The meeting will begin with a dinner in Hale House Friday eve- ning. President Carter Davidson will welcome the cl!;lSS agents an.d Albert R. Smith II, assistant dt- re<:tor of development and execu- tive director of the annual fund, will announce the winning classes in percentage of participation of last year;s annual fund and ~l~ns to further increase competitiOn 1 during the coming campaign. Principal speaker of the eve- ning will be Curtis L. Hemenway, Union College professor of phys- , ics and director of the Dudlr:Y Observatory in Al~any. H.e w1ll talk on his expenments m the collecting and analyzing of micro- ' meteorite particles from outer space. Alumni Give $200,000 Sessions covering the various , aspects of fund raising amoJ:!g alumni have been scheduled. m Hanna Hall on Saturday mormn$· In the afternoon the group wtll attend the Union-Alfred football ···game. During the fiftieth annual fund campaign, the first year that t~e society of class ag~nts w.as m i full operation, alumm contributed over $211,000 to the college . - more than 20 percent of all I,Pfts to the college during the fiscal year ending June 30. Sigma Xi will present Dr. Jack Luin Hough, Professor of Geo- iogy at the University of Illino.is, who will speak on \The Prehts· toric Great Lakes of North Amer· ica\ at Union College on Octobl'r 11, 1962 at 8:00 PM. The talk will be held at The Physics Lec- ture Room, 2nd floor, Physics Building. It is open to the pub- lie. to Cathy. Youman hopes to re- Students m attendance dunng schedule the class so that it will th~ fall 196~ seroest.er .are re- meet only twice, instead of the qmred ~o fll!'l appl~catwn for normal three times a week. If scholar mcentlve assistance n?t this is accomplished, Miss Rose's latm: th~n De~ember 1, 1962. T~e fiery red Corvair will be seen apphcatw~ will serve. as tht; basis less often. Professor Youman had f?r awardmg scholar mcentlve as- previously felt a little guilty sis~nce for both the fall and (Continued on Page 5) Abstract Art Is Featured \New Configuration\ is the title of Sunday afternoon's art exhibit to be held in Old Chapel from four to six PM. This is. tpe first of a series of art exhibits portraying the current American art scene to be presented by the college Art Department under the direction of Professor Wayne No- wack. . This Sunday's show will fea- ture twenty-four works of art on loan from a number of well- known New York City art galler- ies. Many of them were ~·ecently shown in two presentatwns of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, \New Image of Man\ and \Figure U.S.A.\ Post Abstract Art The rep1·esented painters be- long to the Post-Abstract school of painting which contains members who have returned to the image and concentrate on the figure and representative elements. Most of these young, American painters, nineteen in all, possess national or international reputations. They include: Balcomb Greene, Roy Lichtenstein, Robert A n drew Parker, Fairfield Porter, Larry Rivers and Jane Wilson; all ex- cellent representatives of this new Post-Abstract school of painting. A program no interested follow- ers of modern American al't will want to miss, the \New Configur- ation\ exhibit will be on public display this Sunday from four to six in Old Chapel and will run through to Sunday, Novem- ber 4th. about having taught a class of sprmg semesters. . only th1•ee men before her ar- Students who do not rece1ve rivaL ' scholar incentive assistance for the fall 1962 semester may never- Separated Distance theless apply for assistance f~r Youman is enthusiastic about 1 the spring 1963 semester. Apph- this new look and has hopes that cations must be filed not later the Union-Skidmore connection than April _1, ~963. . will become as close as Harvard- For apphcatwns and mf?rma- Radcliffe and Columbia-Barn- tion concerning the scholar mcen- ard. However, these hopes, he tive program, write. to: pointed out, might ea~ily be ~x- Regents Ex~mmat10n and tinguished since there ts the diSt- Scholarship Center ance of 20 miles between the State Education Department two campuses. Albany 1, New York ''Things Shore K'n Change in a Hundred Years\ EDWARD WEEKS Politics Stressed freedom and use of broadly national idiom characteristic ·Of American writing, to the more rigid style and use of local dialect in Russian liter- ature. Any class defining characteris- tics between the American and Communist writers are not def- initely clear, despite the rival ideologies. Certain Russian au- thors, including Pasternak, Sholo- khov, and Leonov, have written brilliantly despite the problems of censorship, he said. Exodus To Europe When Weeks, editor of the At- lantic Monthly, first entered the publishing career in the late 1920's, most American authors passed through a \going out\ pe- riod. Once freed of financial re- sponsibilities, they assumed resi- dence on the left bank of the Seine. A second chapter, and the more .productive and enduring, was the \homecoming.\ They re- turned with an unsuspected mas- tery to their natice locale, which they had long taken for granted. Thomas Wolfe, Sinclair Lewis and William Faullmer all entered this stage during their writing careers. Taught Marxist Dogma Dr. Walter Lowen spoke on Weeks, who visited the Gorky \Nationalism and Technology\ at Institute in Moscow, feels that in a meeting of the Christian Asso- the Soviet Union, writers are ciation last Wednesday. ground so that \they are impec- Lowen gave a history of the cable in the Marxian dialectic.\ rising importance of technology They are taught to excel in the and the position of scientists and Socialist realism which cuts engineers in international politics .across the Russian literary tra- since World War II. The Marshall ditions. There must be a suitable Plan, he said, was a large-scale positive hero, who strikes out at humanitarian effort which was not the dark forces and black ignor- a result of political rivalry. The ance of his immediate superiors. idealistic aspects of the program Any initial violence is tempered were corrupted when it was dis- by the happy ending. covered that such financial and · The resentful authors find technical aid could be used as a their opposition neither easy nor political tool. When the Commu- comfortable. But the financial re- nists also realized this they em- wards offered to the men of let- barked on a similar program, so ters are great. The more timor- that the relative merits of demo- ous can write animal stories, cracy and communism are now \love stories in fur, or take ad- measured according to the effec- vantage of the wealth of fan- tiveness of their technical aid pro- tasy and superwealth of folk- grams by the underdeveloped tales.\ countries. Live In Awe of Us Dictates Values An outgrowth of this, Lowen said, is that the poor nations have learned how to play both ends against the middle for the best possible gain. The communists, particularly the Russians, have excelled the United States in this competition pa1tly bec~use they better understand the needs of the underdeveloped countries through having to deal with similar prob- lems of their own. One mistake of the United States in the past, according to Lowen, is that it dic- tated the needs of impoverished On our part, we need to become more acquainted with these cre- ative works, Mr. Weeks conclud- ed, in order to inspire a more courageous attitude on the part of the authors, who according to the Russian novelist Leonov, live very much in \awe\ of us. Fellowship Cutoff Set countries, determining those needs by its own standards rath,er than than by the customs and cultures The New York State Educa- of the peoples involved. tion Department has set Decem- Diplomatic Scientists ber 1, 1962 as the closing date The diplomatic importance of for the submission of applica- the scientist was shown at the tions :(or Regents Teaching Fel- first Atomic Energy Conference, lowships. held at Geneva, at which Russian The State offers these each year and American scientists were to students who are planning to able to exchange valuable in- teach at a college or university formation without the pressure of in this state at the conclusion of politics. From that point on, their graduate studies. Two types Lowen said, the American scien- of fellowships are being offered tist has played an increasingly for 1963-64; 250 awards for col- significant role in his govern- lege seniors beginning graduate ment's decisions. The problem studies for a period of two years, with this is that men trained well and 50 advanced graduate study in technology but not in politics awards for a one year period. have been given considerable in- New Yorkers Only fluence in determining foreign policy. Lowen feels that a present According to Dean C. William challenge of education is to train Huntley, \to be eligible for a people to have extensive know!- Teaching Fellowship an applicant edge of politics and foreia-n cul- muat be a citizen of the United tures as well as technology. States, a resident of the State of Waste of Talent New York since September, 1962 Another effect of the important and in full-time attendance during role of technology in politlcs is a both semesters of the 1962-63 large waste of scientific talent academic year. In addition, those and resources. The politics of the applying for the beginning grad- two major powers do not allow uate study fellowship must com- for a mutually advantageous ex- plete an approved baccalaureate I change of scientific information degree /rogram by September 1 so that a large amount of dupli- 1963 an must not have previous- , cation in research programs ly applied for a Fellowship. Those exists. .applying for the advanced study I Because of the small attend- fellowship must haVi:i completed ance, the lecture was handled as a 24 hours of graduate study prior discussion. (Continued on Page 6)

Uni.on Then and Now Publlshell Fridays during the school Editorial Office Washburn Hall, 1 l'nion College, 'publication Office, year by the Student Body of Un on Schenectady Printing Company, 502 College, Schenectady, N. Y. :Na- Broadway. Entered In the Sche: tiona! Advertising Representative: nectauy Post Office as Second Class National Adverllslng Service, Inc.. Mail Matter. Subscription 15c a College Put>llshers Representative. l'OPY: $3 a year delivered anywhere 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. c. In the United States. SI~NIOR BOARD 9 < 9 E<lltor-in-Chief ALFRED SOMMER '63 ............. DI 6-9 \ .............. ..... .. ..... ....... M STEVEN FACTOR '63 ................. EX 3-9232 ................................ Business • ;;':l~er MICHAEL J. GORDON '63 .... , ..... l•'R 2-1447 ................................... !.lanag!ng ' or • • .. Dl 6 98\!1 .. Sports Editor DAVE THUHs;ro;s ij3................... . \ . .. ..................... News Editor · SIMON SOBO 64............................... . .. F'ature :Editor ~~~t~A~E~.E~g;;.~s;a:i:::.:: .. : ............................ :.:::::::::::::::·::::::··--:: .. ~ ......... Advisor We are pleased to announce that a new feature will be added to the pages of Concordy with this issue. The memories of the past glories and follies of our college will be presented in col· umns of a similar nature as the one below in coming weelrs. The pattern of history repeating it- self is evident throughout this selection as evidenced by St. Law- rence's victory in 1952. Only the margin of victory has changed. By Jacob Lieb 50 years ago A silver cup of the value of $50 has been offered by Mr. Frank Bailey, to be awarded annually to that member of the senior class who has rende~:ed the gr·eatest service to the college in any field. J\U:SIOR BO.\IW Alan Kaufman 'ti-l . . ..Hnedal I~vt\nts Editor Evidently, Old Union appeared 1\Iartin Jay '65 ........ Assistant .t~eatures Editor exceptionally attractive this year Kal Schneider '63 .. ..... ........ ..... · · .............................. Art EE\d~tor to pr·epa1·ator·y men. The enter- ----~ationul Advertising d1tor L()nnie l\assiVPra 'G·l ..... !.ocal AdvertisinS\ Editor ing class enrollment, which is the Steve Raymond '6:1 .............. Subscr!pti()n Editor d B()b Bulson '64 .... Assistant Featur•s Editor secon largest in the history of illart:; ~\\wman '64 ................. covY EdltQr the college, has soared consider- Hobart Kl·amer 'G;; Assistant :->ew Editor ably above the century mark and LaiTY Horowitz '65 ... Assi::;tant Sports. Editor • d l . k . Richard Erdoes '6& ......... 1ts gra ua mcrease rna es 1t un- t..:=:.:::.::_ __________________________ , certain whether the zenith has been reached. Question of Importance Two years ago it was decided that Union ~lleg~ w~uld embark upon a program of codifying and defmmg 1ts a.uns and needs of the future. Work began in earnest last year with the formation of the various \task forces\ staffed by both the faculty and the trustees. The work facing these gentlemen was formidable, and the finished products, re- cently released, clearly show the long hours and hard work gone into them. For this we are grateful. The final reports are at the same time however, a con- demnation of the past. One is astonished by the urgency and necessity of all the recommendations : blunt proof of the lack of action and foresight in the past. The trustees realize that to remain a small college of any repute we must immediately embark upon a major fund-raising campaign, or they wouldn't have devoted so much of their time to the reports. But what then? All the necessary funds won't appear at once, yet the majority of recommendations are contingent upon financial backing. Clearly some form of priority list must be established. In compiling a priority list, the guiding principle should be the immedate improvement of the intellectual atmos- phere and climate, and then the less imperative in;tP~?v~­ ment of th physical plant. We present below a basic pn- ority list\ grounded on this principle. 1) Continuation of the \Honors Program.\ The suc- cess displayed so far this year indicates that the honors program has done more than anything else to improve the intellectual atmosphere on Union's campus. The funds necessary for its continuation should take precedence over any other improvements. 2) The addition of one wing to the library. This would be as much an improvement to the physical plant as it would be to the intellectual climate, for only a decent home for the language and art departments can inspire the seriously creative mood necessary for their functioning. 3) An expanded lectures and concerts program. This need not reach the full $16,000 requested all at once, but an annual increase comparable to the $2000 of last year would enable the committee to draw on individuals of greater talent and fame, thus boosting both campus inter- est and pride. 4) Increase in Faculty salaries. A sizable annual in- crease should only be inaugurated at this point, after the afore-mentioned items have been initiated. We are sorry to place our friends on the facu1ty so low on the list, but the school in general can best benefit from the above rec- ommendations, while still permitting enactment of this \aim\ in ample time to protect them from the avaricious grasps of the new \State University.\ A Progressive-Bull Moose Club has been organized in college with an enrollment of some thirty members so far. The Alpha chapter of Delta Phi, formerly residing at 605 Un- ion Street, has removed to 244 Union Street to secure a more commodious chapter home. The plan of having a lunch room in Silliman Hall has been suggested and is now under con- sideration by a committee ap- pointed for that purpose. So far no definite action has been tak- en but a report of the committee will probably be given before long. Notice-The Concordiensis will gladly pay a liberal reward for information leading to the recov- ery of valuables stolen from a certain sophomore who was show- ing his fair friend the beauties of Jackson's garden. 25 years ago The Mountebanks Theatre to- night chose Ernest Toller's new satirical comedy, \No More Peace\ with which to open its 26th subscription season. In a speech to the student body at Memorial Chapel this morning, Oswald D. Heck '24, Speaker of the State Assembly, urged that college men take an interest in state and national politics. Reaction to Senator Hugo Black's speech over the air last Friday night and his ascension to the Sup1·eme Court Bench yester- day was sampled yesterday aft- ernoon. The general consensus of opinion was that the speech was mainly a political utterance of no special significance which he was forced into by virtue of his per- sistent silence on the Klan issue. Nude students riding up and down Main Street of Golden, Col- orado, on an automobile running board shocked the entire com- BRIDGE CLUB The first faculty-student bridge tournament was held on October 2, 1962 in the Hale House Lounge. A capacity turnout of sixteen teams participated. The winning team, a repeat of last year's champion team from the faculty was Professors Bacon and Good- heart. Second place was taken by another faculty team, Professors Henry and Baker. The top stu- dent team of the Bridge Club President Brazell and Bluestein finished third, a a final faculty team of Schaefer and Ketchum placed fourth. The next regular tournament will take place on Oc- tober 23. munity. They were taking part in freshman hazing activities of the Colorado School of Mines. \Tennis \vas only a girl's game when I first remember it back in the '70's\ commented Dr. John L. Marsh, senior professor of the Union faculty, as he pensively watched the tournament matches on the college courts yesterday afternoon. \It was played with the same degree of informality as croquet.\ Campus Scene . . . Pres. Reed trying desperately to catch a group of street urchins who had made off with some of his Coca- Cola. Julie Bundgus lost his hat at Skidmore Satmday night ... Can You Imagine? His Hat!! 10 years ago College officials this week ex- pressed the hope that work on the proposed $354,000 field house will start in the spring. Although not having any hair- breadth esc a pes from onrushing beasts, Professor William Winne of the Biology Department feels that his stay in Africa from Sep- tember to November, 195'1, was of great interest. Professor Winne reported that he had uncovered at least six flowering species never before classified and an eq1:ml number of new mosses. Highly favored St. Lawrence, after trailing 13-0 in the first quarter, eked out a 20·19 victory over a game Union eleven at Alexander field last Saturday. Bill South's College has a new dietician and hostess this fall in the person of Miss Angelica Birdie. Students are urged to air their complaints regarding food and housekeeping to her. She is available for consultations every afternoon. The Gamma Zeta Chapter of Sigma Chi fraternity is now lo- cated in its new home at 1173 Wendell Avenue. The acquisition of the new residence marks the climax of eleven years of house leasing. A possible law suit may be in- itiated against the Campus Pub- lishing Co. according to a state- ment made by Mr. Wilfred Ketz, coordinator of student activities. The suit may develop as a result of a breach of contract on the part of the Campus Publishers because of the late delivery of the Garnet yearbook. 5 years ago Despite many rumors to the contrary, the Freshman class will have a Pajama Parade. The catch is that the parade will be on campus this year. There will be a meeting of the Flying Club, Monday 7:30 P.M. in Bailey Hall. Union College needs approxi- mately $400,000 to start construc- tion of the Robert Porter Patter- son Memorial Library. Union College was declared off- limits by Skidmore authorities for the coming weekend. The recent outbreaks of Asian flu in area colleges is responsible for the ac- tion the Concordiensis was told by the Office of the Dean late last night. Uniojl will offer students and facultY members the opportunity to immunize themselves against the epidemic of Asian flu ex- pected this year. Silliman Hall will serve as the vaccination clinic on October 16 and 30. Those students who have not been vaccinated for flu within the past 12 or 15 months should report to Silliman Hall on one of these two days to receive the flu injections. A booster dose, which is recommended two months after the first injection will be offered in December. 5) The construction of a new \Science Center.\ For a school dedicated to the finest in education, our present science facilities are wholly inadequate. The Biology Build- ing for example (no new name has yet been offered, \Pas- teur\ and \Pavlovian\ institutes already existing) contains only one .classroom, while chemistry too has outgrown its present facilities. The best solution seems to lie in the ere~ ation of a joint \Science Center.\ examination room for an hour, and then proceeds to his three hour lab. A solution was promised once the new class hours went into operation, yet, as the days wear on and hour exams approach none is in sight. 6) Addition of a second wing to the library. We re- alize that our list leaves our traditionally balanced campus tottering for a spell, but for the benefit of the college as a . whole, the construction of the second wing is rather secondary. Whatever the merits of the 8:30 system it can not continue on this basis. It is true that 1 Yz hours for lunch was longer than necessary, but that fifteen minute lull in the day was not very costly, while being greatly apprec- iated. It was certainly less costly than forcing a large segment of the campus to go to classes on empty stomachs, a most unthought-provoking condition. In addition, the present system forces those students waiting for their meals to lose additional poundage scurrying back and forth fast enough to be able to clean up and get to class on time. Friday, October 5, Russian Impressions Daniel Schwarz was one of Un- ior<'s representatives abroad dur- ing the 1961-62 academic year. Besides studying at the Univer- sity of Edinburgh, Mr. Schwarz found time for extensive travel- ling throughout the Europe!!_n continent. Below are his imnrrs- sions of tbe Individual - State relationship in one of the nations on his itinerary, the Soviet Union. By Daniel R. Schwarz I was one of a group of fiftee11 American and British st11rl::mts who went to Russia and Fo 1 and on a tour sponsored by t 1 'e Scot- tish Union of Students. The trip lasted eightt>en days with six days in Moscow, five in Leninr-rad, -four in Warsaw, and one in West Ber- lin. The remaining three '~lays were completely devoted to rail- road travel. I spent most of my time and energy in Russia speaking to Russian students. I found them willing and anxious to discuss any subject, including all facets of politics. My principal contacts were with Russian University students, most of whom spoke English with astonishing fluen''Y. Moreover, three of our group spoke Russian with some facility, and an interpreter was put at our disposal upon our arrival at the Russian border in Brest. Unrestricted Movement Student visitors to the Soviet Union are provided with accom- modations by \Sputnik a corol- lary of Intourist, the Russian Na- tional Tourist Service. Our group was provided upon our arrival at our student hotels in Moscow and Leningrad, with a suggested pro- gram of activities, participation in which was optional. Our move- ment within the cities was not re- stricted. We could, and did, me- ander through Moscow and Len- ingrad unescorted. I will limit my comments today to basic impressions of the rela- tionship between the government and the governed in the Soviet Union. The majority of Russian stu- dents are inculcated with a sense of \Communism's Destiny.\ They are educated in the belief that Capitalism will crumple and com- munism will triumph. Their thinking is all too often remin- iscent of a reverse John Birchism; Capitalism is evil and Commun- ism is good. Capitalism Decadent? The cogitating University stu- dent, however, tends mm·e to the belief that Capitalism is not com- pletely decadent. Amongst the highly educated is the belief that Communism and Capitalism will move closer together in their 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N.Y. -7< -;< -1< SHOW TIME 7:00- 9:00 NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 50-65 Van Vranken Avenue idealogical positions and coexist. , Most Russian intellectuals would admit, I think, that the complete disappearance of state institu- tions is not in the foreseeable future. Support for the government is · overwhelmingly enthusiastic. A group consensus of the students on our tour agreed that upwards ' of 90% of the population favor I the present regime. Complaints ' are heard about government pol- icy, but basic concepts are vir- ison Avent back, but i those of th , of course, i vent and tr jacket ret: ·the more v ton model i that will d For tually unchallenged. For exam- ple, we heard grumblings about the rise of meat and butter pric- · es, an event which preceded our visit by only a few weeks. But few attributed this rise to a basic failure of Communism to control agricultural production. Rather, such malfunctionings are ascribed to remediable local and individual ' chalk strip ; lighter gr; · dressier d:~ · after-dark BROWN I ••. replaci coloronca category- parel-bl Througho1 bon broWl relaxed gt big news. items in ~ wear and errors. Conscious of Holocaust The Russians are even more conscious than we of the threat of nuclear holocaust. The students with whom we spoke believe that the American people do not want war any more than do the Rus- sians. Yet they fear the Ameri- can government which, they are convinced, is influenced by the \remnants of Nazi-Germany\ and \Fascist Super- Nationalistic French Dictator.\ While we were there, their newspapers dwelt up- on the menace of an independent nuclear deterrent in French hands and of a \Paris-Bonn Axis.\ The most universal Russian belief is that the Russian nuclear arsenal is superior to ours.. But few deny that a nuclear war will all but terminate civilized human exist.-' ence. Russia is ruled by a totalitarian regime of the subtlest form. Two generations of Marxism have cre- ated a broad base of support for the Communist system. One rea- son the students believe in their (Continued from Page 3) I LIKE MONEY with PETER SEllERS In Color and Cinemascope SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTI ST. ( Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts . with the b NEWTWI but somet lighter an :fasll fort throt twills in: while it's 'contende:a: STONE¥ a convict' scene-i The plah somewha1 pace try • point. TO THE · pastand Brogue. They bo1 laced) st day'sBr, be assoc: both bra· dressed This POI The ne\l supple b comfort SPORT~ of the to ·chance t ing the; ttttffffii¥YVfffttYffffSff¥ffi'tftffTYTT9TTTTfT Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE-- FR 4-5294 Two Doors From Mohawk National Bank New Student Rates CHINO SHIRTS 20c PANTS 39c This is only the beginning. We now look to the next meeting of the Board of Trustees for the inauguration of the second phase of the \aims program,\ the phase of active improvement. The Forgotten Lunch When the administration announced the new class timetable, they left unresolved the plight of the student who, after spending all morning in class, walks into an The only workable alternative to the present system would be the advancement of afternoon classes half an hour, so that they'd begin at 2:00 .and end at 5:00. The only conflict then would be with sports, but we'd rather see this much smaller minority do a little running, since it's part of practice anyway, then see the rest of the cam- pus develop ulcers. WASH SUITS -------98c SPORT JKTS. - -49c PANTS ----- -49c · Plain Sweaters 39c Sibs. LAUNDRY $1 .. 20-- .. ----ISc per lb. iA.A.~ 4 4A44'++A4+44A.i.i4•444'44444\\+++444A4+++444_

Friday, October 5, 1962 3 ~ . . ......._qu.ane-a. By David Berenson tion on \how you can take the S ~~ l S;p t l C L U B & Filling space in the Concordien- . Dodgers out of Brooklyn, but you · ca . e . ec acu a r · · · · · sis is not always an easy task can't take Brooklyn out of the . · The writer must produce a mean~ Dodgers.\ How about an essay on By J. C. Clemens ingful column, sticking reason- the statistical .probabilities of Last weekend, I spoke with Ben or Doctor Kildare. But you Serendipity ·Six-Gun to Stethoscope: 1ent is · tic. A ;udents ; · [!Wards , C 1 ably closely to the rules of good walking Willie Mays to get to Or- some friends who had just re- · never really saw any of the new AMP Us grammar. With one's inteUectual ·lando Cepeda, taking into account turned from a short vacation in medicos cut anybody open or split · . capacities on the line before both the standard deviation of the California. Social critics have· a fee. They were strictly bedside · . the students a~d p~ofe~s01:s of this Dodger pitchers? Better yet, how pointed out that California is an manner and that was as far as it · I great academic mstitutwn, the about a doctoral thesis concerning excellent example of what the en- went. F.:A S H I 0 .N s pemptation. to reach the ultimate . the evolutionary significance of favor I plaints ' nt pol- re vir- ject cannot be resisted. Thus, we of Sandy Koufax's pitching hand? ~he next few years. The vulg~r- But now out of the Golden · · . · m profundity on almost any sub- the blood clot in the index finger tire United States will be like in l A New View . find analysis of politics, of jazz, And, if one has a social con- ·Ity. ?,f the H_ollwood \memo~I~l . West comes a new idea in stetho- of art, of movies, of television, of science, the stability of the Amer- park cemeter.Ies, the new. rel1~1- scope soap operas. My vacation- exam- about !l' pric- led our s. But a basic contml Rather, .scribed lividual .st L more threat tudents ve that >t want te Rus- Ameri- Ley are by the ny\ and nalistic re were relt up- oendent i. hands '·\ The elief is arsenal ~w deny all but L exist-• Iitarian n. Two we cre- >ort for 1 ne rea- in their 3) . BY o; E. SCHOEFFLER, ESQUIRE'S Fashion Director · [n Fall a young man's fancy turns to femmes, football and fashions. Space and discretion rule QUt a rundown on femmes or football, but let's take a look at the latest Fall Fashions for tailored apparel. They should capture the fancy of every .young man. RETURN OF THE MAN IN THE GRAY FLANNEL SUIT- From campus to Mad 4 ison Avenue, the practical gray flannel is back, but in new. lighter gray tones than those of the deep, dark past. This styling, of course, is natural shoulder, with center vent and trim trousers. While the 3-button retains its perennial popularity, more vigorous appearing JF'K 2~but­ ton model is an exciting new dev~lopment that will definitely be big on campus this For the adventuresome there are chalk stripes and pin stripes in these new lighter gray flannels,. as well as in the dressier dark blue unfinished worsteds for after-dark wear. BROWN IS BUSTING OUT All OVER , •• replacing olive as the most popular color on campus this Fall. In every fashion category--and especially in tailored ap .. parel-brown is setting the tone. Throughout the spectrum, from deep car 4 bon brown unfinished worsteds to more relaxed grayish brown flannels, brown is big news. You'll find most of the newer items in accessories-belts, shirts, neck~ wear and knitwear-keyed to coordinate with the big boom in brown. NEW TWIST IN TWill- The gabardine type twill suit is back- but something new has been added. This season gabardine twill is lighter and more comfortable than ever before, giving you smooth, fashion in light color tones- weighted .and woven for com 4 fort throughout most of the year. Take a look at one of these new twills in popular natural tan- it's a natural fashion first. And, while it's no longer news, the Glen Urquhart plaid is definitely a 'contender on the fashion scene- in muted gray and olive plaids, STONE WALLS DO NOT A PRISON MAKE ... nor striped shirts a convict's garb. More and more striped oxford shirts are on the scene- in blue and white, olive and ·white and gray and white. The plain-point button-down collar remains the favorite, with somewhat longer, 3\ point lengths now the rule. For a change of pace try a snap-tab collar in either solid or pattern, with a plain point. IT'S NECK AND NECK .... in the race for neckwear popularity ••• with Regimental stripes and soft madder prints and figures headed for a photo finish. Regimentals, in bolder and brighter colors, still lead the field. :But madders jn wool challis and foulards are coming up fast. A safe bet is to have several lengths of both in your wardrobe. TO THE REAR, MARCH ••. is the command as shoes turn to the past and come up with another welcome return- the brown leather ~~~ H'RrnvnP. But there's nothing backward about t}lese new Brogues. = They borrow the hefty, masculine look of Blucher (open throat 1te} v ItS f f ¥ T y - - 9c 49c 39c r lb. 4 4 .. 4 ·~ laced) styling, grained leather tops and leather soles from yester• day's Broguea, but have trimmed off the hefty weight.that used to be associated with th~se high-stepping styles. You'll see them in both brown and black. Cordovan remains a staple color in any well• dressed man's wardrobe. in either calfskin or cordovan leather. This popular, a1I-occaslon shoe is .usually molded with a plain toe. The new Fall slip-ons indicate a return to moccasin design, but supple brown and. black leathers and leather soles promise more . comfort than ever in this popular style. SPORTSWEAR, OUTERWEAR AND FORMAL DRESS ..• are some of the topics coming up in the next few months. I'm glad to have the ·chance to talk with you again this year, and hope you'll be follow• ing the fashion news -right here- each. month. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers ~ Catering to Union College Students foreign affairs, of deodorants, ad ican society due to the sublima- ous cults whi~~ h!tve ar1sen m ing friends reported that the Los infinitum. The conclusion arises tion of agressive tendencies in ~o1;1thern Cal,;forma,, and the Angeles networks now carry live that if all these columns are ever baseball roooting would make an Dial~a- Prayer blessmgs for all flesh and blood operations. The compiled in one book, man's excellent topic. o~caswns at the touch. o~ a phone television camera is mounted in search for absolute knowledge Unenticed di~l are aU pr~tty VIVId proph- the turret of lights above the op- will have finally been ended. However, I think I shall restrain ecJes of new mghtmares yet to erating table, and an emcee stands Continuing in the great tradi- curoe. But perhaps the greatest off to one side and narrates the tion of Concordy columns, we myself from such enticing sub- 7xample of California bad taste action. He is respectably dressed must look for a suitable subject jects. Rather, I will limit myself IS a.new type of TV ~how. in a dark suit and speaks in a thl 's week to analyze I'n the ma- to a mere affirmation of my love R'~'h\r~ Rnone With th ld f th G . t d h d f \ ' e o soft reverent tone reminiscent of ture, educated point of view. Im- thor y e k tan s(Nan t tmy adtre 0 · , ·\Medic\ program that' golf announcer on \Wide medl 'ately sp!'I'ngi'ng to· mi'nd are e an ees. ex o car -carry-. w s th 't · C · t · k t 1 . a .e unWI - World of Sports\ when Arnold the grave issues of federal-state mg ommums s, seasqn tic e - tmg ,PIOneer of Palmer 18 · about to s'nk 1 a tllree- 1 t . h' · M' · · Th h' carrying Yankee fans are the f d re a Ions ·IP m lSSissppi. e IS- . chief object of my pique.) Going a senes o oc- footer. I did not inquire as to torical, legal, and moral aspects out on a limb this Thursday aft- tor. d r a m ~· s whether or not the operations of the problem easily lend them- ernoon before the first game of whiCh now m- were interrupted for short roes- selves to at least two columns of h W ld S . h cl!ld.e ,,\Doctor sages from the sponsor. In fact, S earchi'ng di'scuss1'on. Then there t e or · eries, I pick t e K ld d G . t t · · · If ,, 1 are an,,· I never had the opportun1'ty. I is Walter Schirra, who is imm. e- Ian s 0 wm m SIX games. B n C d' 1 d f 1 1 d bl they succmb to the Yankee aura e as e Y • · was completely entranced with Iate Y goo . or a mow e gea e. of invincibility, I will be more Boone went the my friend's description of the article in which the writer can th . 1 d' . d I he was mov- gory detai'l m· whi'ch the opera- give convincing reasons why we an gnevous y Isappomte . t are either ahead of, behind, or will be out two dollars. th ddl suhrglery room 0 tion was coYered. The sight of e sa e, a w 0 e new crop three or four pounds of small in- even with the Russians in space. A tightened academic calendar of TV docto.r shows over- testine pulsating and throbbing Closer to the campus, a column whelmed the ttend to westerns for the University of Buffalo, r m h · · on the operating table while some can be produced evaluating the· h' h . ff t 'd f The plots are p etty uch t e sawbones 1 ·s tryi'ng to estyl a psychological reasons for J'azzman w lC m e ec provi es or a same· only the names have been r e third semester of study, will be- ' . . spleen must be truly awesome. Roland Kirk playing three saxo- changed. Scnptwl'lters changed . 1 phones simultaneously at one of come effective with the present \varmits\ to \vitamins\ and Really Big. Schenectady's more popular night- academic year, according to an \sidewinders\ to \stethoscopes.\ Horizons for this type of TV spots last Saturday night. announcement by Dr. Arthur L. Real villians were put out of work show are unlimited. Can't you Uninterested Kaiser, Director of Admissions and non-unionized bacteria took visualize Ed Sullivan coming on and Records. For some reason, these subjects over. From all over the country, with something like this: do not particularly interest this While retaining the traditional small news items reported in- \Thank you, Julia Mead, I writer this week. What I really pattern of two semesters, the new stances of little old ladies sassing hope you've all had a wonderful feel is necessary to remain in the calendar provides for an addi- back their physicians on the basis time tonight. Next week on our great tradition of Concordiensis tiona!, overlapping summer ses- 1f new knowledge picked up from (Continued on Page 4) is a politico-socio-economic sion which will allow studentf of the Giants' recent ·with an academic average of B play-off victory over the Dodgers. or better to take work \about I could write a learned disserta- equal to a full semester's load,\ Russian ... Dr. Kaiser said. By carrying a few additional hours of credit during the regular semesters, such students will be able to (Continued from Page 2) complete their degree require- system is that it is all they are ments within three years. permitte,d to know. Impressions By starting a full two weeks of the West are incomplete and earlier than previously, all in- often distorted. For example, struction in the first semester they are taught that 50% of ~ill be completed before the Americans live in a condition of Christmas holidays, eliminating deprivation. the \lame duck\ session. Now The relationship of the average after the holidays the students Soviet citizen to his government will return to their semester ex- is similar to that of an obedient ams, and begin instruction in the child to a protective and didactive second semester January 18. father. He fully supports the de- Midway in the second semester cisions of his government in for- the traditional spring recess will eign policy, and, although he may be held, but it will no longer be complain, he ultimately accepts an Easter vacation. Spring re- all domestic decisions. He accepts cess will begin March 9 in 1963, the distilled history, economics, lasting through March 18. Easter and political science that he. is Sunday falls on pril 14. The taught in the Rusian schools. He tightened schedule Will bring in- believes what the government- struction to ·a close on May 10, controlled public communication and commencement will be held tells him. Impressive and dy- on Sunday, June 2. namic economic improvement con- Dr. Kaiser sees many !>enefits firm what he has learned. For in the new calendar. \One of its Russia, indeed, has emerged from most important aspects,\ he feels, semi-feudalism within forty-four \is the option which it provides years despite two debilitating the student. If he elects SUllllller wars and the strain of a pro- study, he can earn as much as 14 longed arms race. credit hours.\ • • • That's ~~ ~ 164 Jay St. Suggestions: BUT NOT EXPENSIVE SWEATERS POLISHEO COTTONS IVY SLACKS CAMPUS OUTER WEAR ADLER SOCKS Show Union Identification Card and Get ElCclusive 1 0% on All Merchandise Upper Union Street-Presents RAY BRYANT and HIS TRIO Fri. & Sat. Nights 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. -also- Sunday Night 8 P.M. to 2 A.M. GEORGE MONTERO JAZZ TRIO Nightly 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. at 1-617 Union Street DINNERS $1.75 and up FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail Fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Union Pharmacy 600 Union Street Where Union College boys have gathered for over 50 years. Dl 6-1763 FR 4-3605 llfU'lUP c c c - r 'W'ttL MAMA BIANCHI'S Restaurant 1135 Barrett Street Open Till 1 :00 A.M. on Weekdays and 3:00 A.M. on Friday and Saturday Nights - Free.Parking- BRING YOUR DATES Sherman's Liquor Store DISCOUNTS ON CASE LOTS -Free Delivery Hours: 720 Albcny St. FR2-3465 9 A.M. to 11 :00 P.M. For three Generations .... Those Who Know .. Have been recommending ....... HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Granbart & Sons ,u Jay Street Jewelers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY

4 Friday, October 5, 1962 Friday, Oct Friday 5 Saturday 6 Sunday College Calendar Film Series, E.E. 22, 7:00 and 9:00 PM. \Magnificent Ambersons\ and \Entr'Acte\ Faculty Bridge, Hale House Faculty Lounge, 8:00 PM. Football, Union vs. Alfred, Alexander Field, 2:00 PM. Freshman Rocce1', Union vs. R.P.I., at Union, 2:00 PM. Opening Art Exhibit, Old Chapel, 4 :00-6:00 PM. Recent American Painting: The New Figuration Student Council Meeting, Hale House Student Lounge, 7:30PM. Cinema Review: I Like Money There comes a point in any dra- the humor of inventive situation. matic production when clever And, it must be added, even chaz~acterizations and sturdy per-. though the characters are laugh- formances can no longer sustain able types, they tend to become a weak plot. It is to the credit of more like caricatures than multi- Harriers Develop As the opening meet against· Vermont on October 12 draws near, the Union frosh cross coun- try team is developing into ol'le o · Injuries Decitnate Freshnten 7 Tuesday 9 Thursday 11 Friday Sigma Xi National Lecture, Physics Lecture Room, 8:00 Peter Sellers, Herbert Lorn, Nadia faceted personalities. PM. Speaker. Dr. Jack L. Hough. Gray, and John McKern that this A Diversion .the best in recent years. Fifteer. Injuries have hit the freshman men are still out for the team, football team in force. Quarter- and this is amazing when one backs Mike Lubchenco and Pete Jacobsen are each out for several realizes that the sport is one of weeks. Lubchenco injured his S C 1 U · M point does not arrive sooner in Freshman occer, Union vs. 0 gate, at niOn, 3: 30 p. · the film currently playing at the One cannot say, however, that the most demanding physically. ankle while watching a football At this time, the team appea1:s to game last Saturday, and Pete be loose, confident, and sp'rited. suffered a slight concussion while Coach Ketz feels that, \wP are CONVOCATION, Memorial Chapel, 8:30 PM. Union Col- Scotia Art Theater, I Like Money. the film becomes dull or plodding. lege-Schenectady Museum Concert Series- Albany 12 Symphony Orchestra. A 1\Ietamorphsis The principles are too talented a 1' group to allow this to happen and ~better off than ever before.\ scrimmaging against the varsity last week. This throws the quar- Saturday 13 Fr<eshman Football, U\nion vs. Wesleyan, at Union, 2:00 Adapted from Harcel Pagno s one always has the colorful splen- PM. Topaz, I Like Money concerns it- palace to gape at in either revul- One reason for this optomistic terbacking responsibility squarely outlook has been the sparkling at Tom Hitchcock, of Syracuse. showing of Dave Ring, from Watch out for Tom, for here may Bishop Gibbons High here in be another Dave Eales. Tom's S.chenectady. The heral?ed har- passing sparkled Wednesday when r1er has p1:oven to be Unwn's best the freshmen took on the varsity. prospect m many years. \It's 1 Several times he hit receivers g?nna take a helluva lot . to beat 1 with tacklers hanging on him or him/' says Ketz. Joel Kmg has while in the air to avoid them. imJ?ress~d in recent workouts, 1 1 The big problem is that he will wh1le B1U Hunt a!ld J?ob Wana- have to do it alone for at least maker are developmg mto steady another week until Jacobsen re- performers. Add Dave Bruce, turns. Socce1·, Union vs. Hobart, at Union, 3:30 PM. self with the metamorphsis of a 1 Faculty Square Dance, Old Chapel, 8:30 PM. mild, subservient, scrupulously dour of the . politician's opu ent honest French school-teacher who sion or awe. Divertisement rather NOTICE abandons his principles to attain than true entertainment seems to · · b · ff d b h c 11 H 1 h · h be the keynote of I Like Money. Influenza vaccmation 1s emg o ere y t e o ege ea t the material fruits of d1s onesty. it seems more Ji.ke a warm-up to· Service to members of the faculty and non-academic college em- As Albert Topaz, the film's tar- h ployees with clinics to be held in Silliman Hall between 12:00 Noon nished hero, Sellers makes the a comic mainbout rather than t e and 2:00 Pl\1. on the following dates: October 16, and 30. Follow· viewer overlook the absurdity of hearliner itself. The difference up clinics for the second injection will be held in Dec!'mber and an a total change from a Walter between leaving the people gasp- announcement will appear in the Calendar. M'tt t Rh tt B tl · · ing for more and leaving them . 1 Y o a e u er m SIX waiting for you to begin is some- ---------------------------~ short months. He also manages b 11 to maintain a reasonably amusing how overlooked in this asica · y (Author of\ I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,\ \The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,\ etc.) WHAT TO WEAR TILL THE DOCTOR COMES Now that you have enrolled and paid your fees and bought your books and found your way around campus and learned to hate your roommate, it is time tu tum to the most important aspect of college life. I refer, of eourHe, tu clothe,;. What does Dame Fashion decrre for the coming school year? (Incidentally, Dame Fashion i:-; not, a~ many people believe, a fictitious character. ~he waH a real Englit>hwom~n who lived in Elizabethan tinws and, indeed, England is forever in her debt. During the inYn~ion nf the ~pani\h ArnmdH, Dame Fm>hion- not yet a Dame but a lllPre, tttlll'ttPred country Ius~ named l\loll Flanders-lluring the im·asion, I say, of tiH' Rpanish Armada, this dauntlPsH girl Htood on tlw whitP diffs of Do\·er und turned thP tide of hattie by rallying the drooping morale of the British fleet with this stirring poe111 of her own eompo:;ition: Don't be gutless, Men of Britain. Swing uow· Cilllass, We ain't quittin'. Smash the Spanish, Sink their boats, !J1ake 'em !'anish, Like a h(JI'se makes oats. For Good Queen Bess, Dear sirs, you gotta ;~[ ake a mess Of that Armada. You won't fail! Knock 'em flat! Then ll'e' ll drink ale And slttff like that. As a reward for these inspirational verses Queen Elizabeth dubbed her a Dame, made her Poet Laureate, and gave her the Western Hemisphere except Duluth. But this WltR not the extent of Dame Fashion's service to Queen and country. In 1580 she il1\'ented the laying hen, and she wa-H awarded a life- time pasR to Chavez Ravine. But she was not to end her days in glory. In 1501, alas, she .~vas arrested for overtime jousting and imprif'oned for thirty years in a butt of rnalm!<Py. This later became known as Guy Fawkes Day.) But I digress. Let us get bn:ck to campus fm~hions. Certain to be the rage again this year is the cardigan (which, curiously enough, was named after LOl'cL Cardigan, who commanded the English fleet against the Spanish Armada. The sweater is only one product of this rcmarkahle Briton's imagination. He also invented the glottal stop, the gerund, and the eyelid, \vi.thout which winking, as we know it today, would not be poRsible). But I digress. The cardigan, I say, will be back, which is, I believe, cause for rejoicing. Why? Because the cardigan has nice big pockets in which to carry your Marlboro Cigarettes- and that, good friends, is ample re~>.;!:'n for celebration as all of you will agree who have enjoyed Marlboro's fine, comfortable, mellow flavor and Marlboro's filter. So why don't you slip into your cardigan and hie yourself to your tobacconist for some good Marlboros? They come in soft pack or flip-top box. Cardi- gans come in pink for girls and blue for boys. © 1962 Maxshut~IU~A * * * Cardigans or putlovers-it's a matter of taste ••• And so is Marlboro a matter of taste-the best taste that can possibly be achieved by experienced growers and blenders-by sci· ence, diligence, and tender loving care. Try a pack. P ace in his capacity as the film's uninspired little production. Sell- ers may be turning out films at a director. rate that is too fast and furious Dave Volkman, Jan Werner, and Bill Stoner, and the Dutchmen have the nucleus for a fine team. Two Platoon Coach Allison's plan for a two Herbert Lorn as the corrupt for the maintainence of the comic Parisian politician who starts quality that is generaHy associ- Teamwork Essential Topaz on his way to illicit success ated with his name. You don't The key to the team's success · team squad has finally materi- alized. One team is better on ,of- fense than the other, while the second unit shines on defense. The two units are rated equally, the difference only in the special- ty.\ Actually, the units can not really specialize like the pros, be- cause the collegiate rules won't allow the necessary substitution. The idea is that if the opponent makes a first down on the Dutch- men 10 yard line, immediately the \defensive unit\ goes in. That unit would then have to stay in the game and run offense if it holds the opponents. gives what weU may be the most make a reputation with movies of is undoubtably the development of laugh-provoking performance in the ilk of I Like Money. the men behind Ring. Although the picture. John McKern's broad Dave should place high in most of interpretation of the pompous h u · school headmaster draws laughs S } 1 t e meets, mon must put enough at the picture's onset but tends to ca pe • • • men among the top finishers ot become tiresome in its sameness add the valuable points awarded as the picture progresses. Nadia (Continued from Page 3) to the top five men. One man Gray as the politician's wife (or really bi~ show, we'll have those cannot do the job in cross-country b -teamwork is essential. is it mistress?) stays adequately fabulous bell-ringing polar ears succulent throughout the film. from Ontario, Canada, along with Finally, whatever, the men on Sells Herself the Flying Wallendas, Senor the team lack in ability and ex- w d h . nderful pup perience, must be compensated W hether the film does or does ences an 1 S wo - pets, Jack Paar and his wonder- for with that extra effort that not ridicule the cynical philosophy ful puppets, and as a special at- Union's athletic teams have lack- by the wife that \life is an auc- · p 1 D dl Wh't '11 ed in recent years. The frosh Sparking the offensive unit's backfield is, of course, Hitchcock at quarterback. At right half is Terry Dutton, from Fairport, New York. The fullback as of now is Dick Miller, of Binghamton, New York. Rounding out the \of- fensive\ backfield, as advertised in a previous Concordiensis, is AI Herdlicka. Naturally, these posi- tions are not set, but at this writ- ing this was the way things looked. tion and we all sell ourselves in tractiOn, au u ey 1 e Wl runners must give everything One Way Or another \ wht'ch forms perform a hysterectomy on our h h . . . 11 b . t \ t ey ave to wmrung, not JUSt the bases foi . Topaz' act1'ons 1's rea Y 1 g s age. h h ill b finishing. Ring must prove his somewhat debatable. In the brief Or perhaps t ese s ows w e worth, and every man on the hour and a quarter that I Like exploited in the pious manner team must develop into the best Money runs, this and other pos- known as \Specibal Evebnts\: ~Thts possible form. Then, and only sible points are left tantalizingly operation has een roug t 0 then, can the team experience a undeveloped. Even the film's com- you through the fdacilities otf thef winning season-a rarity in Un- edy merely whets the appetite special events epartmen ° ion's recent athletic endeavors. without satiating it. Flashes of NBC news. We'd like to thank cleverness appear in the scenes the Brillo soap pad people for between the headmaster and To- relinquishing their commercial paz and the politician and Topaz, time so that our star, Willard but they rarely produce more Snarf, wouldn't bleed to death, than an appreciative chuckle and we'd also like to thank Mr. which should be, but never really Snarf for relinquishing his ap- is, followed by the roll-in-the- pendix. This is Chet Huntley at aisles haymaker that character- the stomach valve sending it back izes much of Sellers' other work to David Brinkley, our anchor The simplicity of the plot allows man at the duodenum, and saying only for the comedy of character- 'good night'.\ ization while almost prohibiting Is there a doctor in the house? Student Council To Meet Business to be handled by the Student Council at its meet- ing October 9, 1962, Hale House Lounge, 7:15 PM. 1. Motion to fill the vacant slot on the traffic court. 2. Petition to end classes the Saturday morning of the Hamil- ton football game (away). 3. Motion to approve the principal ideas of Prexy's calendar. 4. Discussion of the lack of available time for lunch, due to shortened lunch hours. 5. Discussion of the re-organization of the Cheerleaders. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. Pre Game Predictions: By Time Center Jewelers UNION ALFRED o--o-o-7 6-0-G-0 Post Game Predicti(lns: A charming charm, For a charming chick, Will make your weekend click. -MEL. 428 State Street WRUC Features As part of WRUC's new pro- Frisky Tacklers graming policy, the station has On the defensive side of the instituted a special Sunday for- picture, the scenery is indeed for- mat of feature programs. The midable. John Morrison, from station signs on the air at 1:00 Yonkers, New York, romps at P.M. with Hal Horwitz's Hooten- left tackle. Frisking beside him anny show, a cross-section of in- at guard is Tom Morgan, from ' ternational authentic folk music. Oceanside, New York. A bulwark The hours between two and four in the middle is Bob DiMichele are devoted solely to music from from Utica, who also has had ad- the sound tracks of various vance billing. Further down the Broadway shows. Bill Melgard line, at right guard, is Dick Male, will host a three hour program of from Schenectady. Finally, round• classical music from four o'clock ing out a 200 pound line is Pete to seven. Lichtenstein at right tackle. He The next two hours will feature hales from White Plains, New a survey of the top forty of pop- York. ular music with the dynamic rock This is some of what you'll see and roll disc jockey Paul Neu- if you attend the game against hoof. For the final three hours of Wesleyan on the 13th. This group WRUC's Sunday program sched- has given the varsity a hard time, ule, WRUC invades the confines and Wesleyan won't find it any of the purpleness of Tom Kreh- easier. biel's grotto for the pure sounds -------------- of jazz music. Tom will feature takes pleasure in presenting to interviews with famous jazz mu- the listening public the station's sicians from one of Schenectady's two favorite schizophrenics, Andy prominent nightspots. Fogelson and Bang,Bang Braff, In addition to the various disc whose daily group therapy can be jockeys heard on Sunday, WRUC heard at 1:30. ARE YOU AN ENVELOPE LICKER? A stamp sticker? A letter writer? Most of trS aren't. That's why the telephone was invented. A long Distance call home is so much quicker than writing. PI easanter, too . . . because you're \home\ for a little while .. Try it, tonight. Rates are low- est, remember, every evening after 6 and all day Sunday. New York Telephone ~ Part of the nationwidE' ~ Bell Telephone System Di~tributed from BOSTON LOS ANGELES LONDON CHIC:AGO • Objective News Reports • Conslruc:live Background Material • literary and Entertainment Hews • Penetrating Editorials Clip this advertisement ond rt- turn it with your cheek or monoy order to: The Chrl$tlan Sclen~• Moniter One Norway St., Boston 15, Mon. 0 1 Year $11 0 6 mos. $5.50 OThls spe~lal offer available to college students. Faculty· member~ and college llbrorie1 also ellglblt 1 when subscribing themselves •. P.·CN -- Chick Swa backfield 1 opet·ate fr wingback, against St. will perfo' (Conth \Sophomol from the 1 letic Confe ing perfol port. He c yards and OtherS: back Johr three seru Joe Rem~ 1 eighty-eigl ception la completed eighty Yf claims ho doesn't cor that their tion he st: best p,ass' years.' He to use a seven rna and hem~ ln1 Against Eales toss completin~ averaged five carri ceptions, ,Dutchmen ized on sc As St. L~ stated af' not pleasE fensive pl that the vantage c miscues. ' chance tc running openedth dash in t quarter. :E the Dutcll he collect carries. InjUJ.'ieE Garnet fl strength the scene 1 . suffered : i second pE for there is doubtf1 be able i at least t John Wi have bee sured tha: for AlfrE either Bil switched the vaca11 of this, : will pro1 John Hm ates quiu net forw: field wil some re Marshall, impressiv Pete Bw to wingb both wa~ will be 1 and, witl Stevens f see actiOJ a trouble well settl Hopkins ·Hutchins see a lot dl 141 E. 44

1962 Friday, October 5, 1962 ---------------------------------.----------------------------------.--------------------------------- Union Faces Alfred BootersEdgeOneonta2-l ~e After Larrie Defeat· Play at Hamilton Today Tinte Out By Dave Thurston Cries of \Hoax\ have been circulating around the quad this past week as a .resut of Union's disappointing performance last week- end against a potent St. Lawrence eleven. Every pseudo cynic on campus has duly appointed himself football critic of the week to the tune of such perceptive comments as \Knowing Union, . . ./' \Naturally they lost\ or simply and precisely 'What Hoppen ?\ ~n 1hman arter- Pete everal l his •otbail Pete while arsity 1 quar- · mrely acuse. ~may 1 Tom's when Lrsity. . ' e!Vers im or them. e will least :n re- a two ateri- m of- e the fense. ually, lecial- n not •s, be. won't ution. 1onent >utch- ly the That :ay in If it Chick Swain (left) and Art Marshall should form half the starting backfield tomorrow against Alfred in the home opener. Swain will operate from. the fullback slot, while Marshall is slated to start at wingback, Swain, a senior, paced the Garnet in rushing yardage against St. Lawrence while Marshall leads a host of .sophomores who will perform for Coach Joe Maras. Last Tuesday the Union Colleg·e soccer team took the field against a strong Oneonta State team. The Oneonta squad was a def~te favori~e prior to game, time, mainly on the strength of Its 8-1 v1c-<b - ~- tory over the Garnet squad X Oou.n tr'\' last year. However, the .. J sophomore studded Union • team simply out-hustled and Outlook Dzm· out-played its opponent to come out on top, 2-1. By Larry McCray Coarh Carl Witzel opened With The Union cross-country team a predomi,nantly veteran lineup will swing into action tomorrow except at ri~t wing and goa1ie with a quadrangular meet against where sophomores John Garey Harpur, Oneonta, and Utica at and Brian Barefoot started. Jack Harpur College. The seven-man Rowell opened at left-wing, Larry squad launches its 1962 campaign McCray at left inside, Bill Bern- in hopes of impr0ving its ¥;inless hard at right inside, and Eddie season last fall. Lipton at center forward. The de- Ketz Encouraged fensive lineup found co\captain Coach Bill Ketz is encouraged Herm Helber and John Nelson at but not optimistic with the out- fullbacks, Pat Dugan and Pete look for this season. \Both Larry Bishko at left and right halfbacks, Newton and Gary Morris are run- and co-captain \Able\ Abe Terp- ning as well as or better than our ening at the key center halfback top man, Wayne Laverty, did last slot. year,\ Ketz observed, \and Andy Action Started Quickly Warde is running the best he ever Action started fast and at 5:16 has.\ Sophomore John Hann, who of the first period, Oneonta scored gained experience at Mount Her- on a head from its center forward mon Preparatory School, is the who slight!¥ deflected a cross. squad's newest member and is from his inside. Union immediate-· making the adjustment to the 5 (Continued from Page 1 ) L•b F• }d ly roared back With a brilliant mile grind. Ketz notes that Hann \Sophomore of the Week'' honors 1 rary te . display of ball control and pass- might run as well as third posi- from the Eastern Collegiate Ath- ing to bombard the Oneonta goal tion later in the season. The big- letic Conference for his 01,ltstand- s· f R II consistently for five minutes. gest question mark at present is ing performance against Brock- tte 0 a Y Many shots hit the side posts of in the only senior har-rier, Doug port. He carried 12 times for 44 the goal and the Oneonta goalie Allen. Doug is suffiering from yards and one TD. Library Field will be the site made a fine save on a shot by what Ketz terms \a case of bad Other Saxons to watch are ful!- of the year's first football Pep inside Rolf Kasper. During a feet\ which may determine his back John Shea, a veteran of Rally, sponsored by the recently goalmouth seramble, an Oneonta performance. If he can coax them three seasons, and quarterback formed Block \U\ Society, sched- ylayer was detected pushing and into top running condition he will Joe Renwick. .Tohn scampered uled to get underway at 7:30P.M. Union was given a penalty kick. be a man to watch, as evidenced eighty-eight yards with an int!!r- The Rally is the first of a series This should have tied the game, by his fine showing at the 1961 ception last week, and Renwtck of services that the Society but Kasper, taking the kick for t t t h h fi · h d completed 66% of his aerials for plans to undertake during the the Garnet, booted the ball with s a e mee ' w ere e rus e eighty yards. Coach YuneVIch current school year. a little too much spin and it ahead of Laverty. claims however, that the t earn . rolled past the lower left hand Good Frosh Turnout Such pessimism, in our own opinion, is far too premature to be valid. Coach Joe Maras at the present time resembles a prospector sitting on a bonanza with no capital with which to mine his claim. Maras' capital is time, something which he lacks in quantity as last Saturday's defeat will attest. Maras needs this precious commodity to develop the fine sophomore talent he has on hand, but time can be costly when it is measured on the Alexander Field scoreboard clock Saturday afternoons. Maras finds himself up against the age old football dilemma of playing inexperienced men who will make mi&- takes that cost ball games, or utilizing them wi,th the idea of gain~ ing experience to play winning football as the team progresses. The (>ersonable Garnet mentor expressed the latter outlook at a press confet·ence earlier this week. Maras feels it is more to the point to play his rookies right away in order to gain practical ex .. perience rather than learning from observation alone. A predomi- nantly sophomore squad played a major share in Union's opener and according to 1\laras, made the inevitable mistakes, but performed well on the whole. In addition, he remarked that some of the varsity veterans also committed their share of errors in contributing to tl~ defeat. It is evident there is plenty of talent over all and a proper blending of the new and old should produce results fairly soon. The Larrie defeat can be explained without rationalizin~. A~:; mentioned in our pre-game analysis last week, Union immediately started at a disadvantage, owning to the Scarlet Saints' previous game experience against C. W. Post in which they had the opportu:- nity to test their plays against a pretty stiff opponent. Union, who displays an offense more complex than most of the foes the Garnet will face this year, failed to iron out the bugs which always pre~ sent themselves in any season opener. Dave Eales, showing signs of summer rust, repeated his personal football history as a slow starter. The co-captain from Sayville, L. I., took two games IasJ; season before he shifted into high gear, and last week's relatively mediocre display indicated similar tendencies in '62. · In addition, Pat Fantauz7.i, the mainstay of the Garnet front line, suffered a leg injury midway through the first half and was unable to donate his services for the remainder of the .wntest. In fact, published reports list Fantauzzi as a non-combattant for at least two weeks, an optimistic medical chart at best, Further adding to the Garnet woes was the semi-duty of Pete Burgwald, who has been nursing an ailing ankle since the beginning of fall practice. Burgie's lack of practice time showed visably Saturday when he did play, as the senior eo-captain miss!ld more than his usual quota ot holes. unit's ~hcock .alf is rport, ,fnow .mton, e \of- rtised is AI posi- writ- doesn't compare to last year's and Boost Spirit corner of the goal. Seemingly un- Rounding out the Union travel- 1 that their speed is poor. In addi- According to Bill Cohen, Pres- concerned, the Union offense con- ling squad are juniors John Sep- tion he stated that, \Eales is the ident of the Society, \we hope tinued to keep pressure on the ples and LeRoy Michaud, both Even with these above difficulties, the Garnet grid forces did not disgrace themselves despite the final .score, the worst Union fooi;:- ball loss in three years. Most campus fans attending the game at Canton felt the final tally was a poor indication of the Garnet abilities, The fact the first half ended in a scoreless tie, showed a great deal relating to the Garnet's staying power against a strong, fired up team. If the home forces can duphcate their first half effort of last week and, of course double it, Union rooters will definitely have something to cheer about at their Saturday night parties. Optimism must be guarded, but with a game under their collective belts, the Garnet should be tough to beat tomorrow. ' :hings ,f the d for- from ps at e him from ' tlwark :ichele ad ad- 'll the Male, ~ound- ; Pete e. He New . 'II see gainst group l time, .t any ng to 1tion's Andy Braff, !an be :erial ~ :J .so •• her~ lble, .Ctf best p,asser I've seen in three that the student body will react Oneonta defense. With Coach returnees from 1961. years. • He also said he is tempted favorably toward the Rally as it Witzel interchanging his men and A hint of enthusiasm is evident to use a four man line and a is designed to bolster school spir- making excellent use of his depth, as Coach Ketz contemplates fu- seven man defensive backfield, it and reaffirm confidence in Gar- Union appeared to have a definite ture harrier prospects. The most and he may well need it. net football hopes that may have advantage. promising factor is the freshman ~~l!!lli!ll!il~l!il[l!]~l!ilml!!l~li!l~ Interceptions Hurt been lost after last week's loss at McCray Tallies turnout of well over 20 runners, \\ Against the Larries, co-captain St. Lawrence.\ He added, \one With less than five minutes re- most of them with high school ONE DAY SERVICE I Shaver Serv·lce Eales tossed the pigskin 17 times of the prime functions of the maining in the first half, Kasper experience. This, coupled with [I completing 8 for 32 yards and Block \U\ Society is to insure took the ball down the wing, the youth of the present varsity, cAM pUS averaged seven-plus yards. for the athletes of Union College that maneuvered around two Oneonta promises improvement in the iJ five carried. A couple of mter- their practice time on the ath- players with amazing dribbling state of cross country at Union. 1!!1 ceptions, however, did hurt the letic fields does not go unnoticed, ability and crossed the ball in As for the season at hand, Ketz C L E A N £ R S iJ , Dutchmen as the Larries capital- and I feel that a Pep Rally for front of the goal where McCray is more reserved. \I wouldn't 1!!1 ized on some fine defensive play. the football team is a step in the registered the first Union score guarantee anything in the victory All Work Done on Premises (gJ As St. Lawrence coach Hoffman right direction.\ of the young season. The first half column,\ he says, \but we will 1!!1 stated after the game, he was On Library Field ended soon thereafter with the show a stronger squad this fall.\ PICKUP AND DELIVERY ! not pleased with his squad's of- score tied 1-1. The first home meet is slated for ~ fensive play at all, and was glad For the first time in many The second half found Junior Homecoming weekend, October 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. 1!!1 that the defense could take ad- years the Rally will be held on T b L t'g · th U · 1 20 t 2 30 p M · t R p I ~ l G t o y us I m e nion goa , a : . . agams • . . Opp. Union College = 724 11. STATE STREET vantage of a few cost y arne Library Field instead of behind replacing Barefoot. This move ~~ n all makes of Repairs & Sales on Electric Shavers Phone FR 4-9741 miscues. Wally Brown did get a Richmond Dorm. In previous made by Witzel without any hesi- began to look awfully big when Phone EX 3-5472 l<lJ chance to show off his classy years the parking lot behind tation, since he feels both boys Jack Rowell was given a corner H~mml!!ll!ilml!il~_ running style, though, as he Richmond provided the only re- are equally adept at keeping the kick. His kick was perfect as left ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ opened the scoring with a 69 yard fuge for a bonfire, but unfortun- ball out of the go~I. Ron Tebbett inside Seville Simonds lashed the dash in the middle of the third ately its position, was not central- and George Posner among others ball into the goal with his head . quarter. Fullback Chick Swain led ized, a factor that robbed the also saw action upfield after the A<:cording to observe1·s, it was the Dutchmen;s ground attack as Rallies of good attendance. The break. one of the most perfectly executed he collected forty yards on nine Society plans to facilitate the use Terpening Shines soccer plays seen here in quite a carries. of spotlights on Library Field in Meantime the Union defense few years . Fantauzzi Out hopes that the centralized posi- completely throttled the Oneonta Runout Clock Injuries, which have kept the tion will make the Rally success- offense. Co-captain Terpening Union was now content to run Garnet from reaching their full ful. consistently headed balls out of out the clock and play defense, strength all year, again entered Cohen concluded by stating, \I danger and his pin point passing which it did excellently. During the scene as guard Pat Fantauzzi only hope that the Rally is a sue- started several offensive charges. the final seven minutes Pete \ . suffer-ed a leg injw·y during the cess as the success of the Block John Nelson's talented left toe Bishko displayed his hustle as he i second period, and was sidelined \U\ Society and a good indica- continualy connected as did those continually boomed the ball back for the remainder of the game. It tion of school spirit is riding on of Herm Helber and Ben Blair. into State territory. is doubtful, in fact, that he will its outcome.\ . Blair did a very commendable job It was a good victory for Un- be able to return to action for replacing co-captain Helber when ion, which well could be on its at least two weeks. Both centers, There will be a meeting of all he was shaken up. Once again way to an excellent season. As John Wilson and Pete Wenger, students interested in doing vol- Union's great depth was shown, Coach Witzel said before the have been ailing, but it is as- unteer work at Lower Community the depth they are enjoying for game, \This squad is as ready to sured that they Will both be ready Center on Tuesday in G.E. 107 at the first time since Witzel became play soccer as any one I've had for Alfred. It will probably be 7:45 PM. The nature of this vol- coach. while at Union.\ The team will either Bill Graves or Jim Kelley, unteer work will be explained at Play evened up in the fourth try to· add victory number two switched from tackle, whp will fill this time. period with much of the play this afternoon, when they travel the vacant guard slot. As a l'esult taking place at midfield. The pen- to Clinton, New York to face a of this, fullback Jeff Sch~ltheis The St. Lawrence rout was alty shot missed in the first half strong Hamilton squad. will probably move ·irt\. oohind surely not indicative of the Gar- .:...:.:.!.....:.;_:.:__.:...:..::~------------'=------=------ John Harvey at tackle. This ere- net potential as attested by coach ates quite a variation of the Gar- Hoffman of St. Lawrence, coach net forward wall, and the back- Yunevich of Alfred, and his field will most likely undergo scouts! coach Maras and above some revamping as well. Art all the squad. They now have a Marshall, who has filled in quite game, under their belt, (both the impressively for ailing co-captain Larries and the Saxons are now Pete Burgwald, has been moved t · th · th · d t t) d to wingback, and will be going en ermg eJr Ir con es an the costly blunders of their open• both ways this week. Fred Dill er should be deleted. Coach Maras Will be moved in behind Burgie has promised more passing, which and, with the return of QB Joe should open up Umon's offensive · i' Stevens from the disabled list, will attack considerably giving Burgie see action at quarterback only as and the 'Swan' more running a trouble shooter .. Swain is pretty room. 'l.'he Garnet mentor feels well settled at ft1llback,. but Steve that our defense wiU solidify by Hopkins (on offense) and Bren virtue of last weeks 'experience/ 'Hutchinson (on defense) should and both coaches reveal their re- see a lot of action. speetive chances as even. for the finest in custom clothing and furnishings 14 E. 44th St. • New Y'ozL 17, N.Y. -- Best Service in fown SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN ~ Attention SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students 0 it WHO NEED SOME FINANCIAL HELP IN ORDER TO COMPLETE THEIR ~ a > ~ EDUCATION DURING THIS ACADEMIC YEAR AND WILL THEN COMMENCE z \' WORK. ~ ij A Non~~~~~d!?ati~!~~~~.S ~~~~~Drc~~~~~.~~~.N.:AJ[\~·MINN. ~ 'Convention Hall-Saratoga SAT., OCT. 6 at 8:30 Tickets $2.50 • $3 - $3.50 On Sale: Van Curler Music @t:s 430 State St. CANNON BATH TOWELS 36x66 inches Imprinted with Union College Seal $3.98 RECORDS OF COMEDY -JAZZ- CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 ! Mother Ferro's Restaurant ! l Specializing in Italian • American food t Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA i ' ' Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. I •f Midtown Barber Shop 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care

6 Pollution Curtis Problem Per/or~ns Beginning with a symbolic urn and a war-party of five canoes at Utica, and ending with a pillar of smoke at Schenectady, the sev- eral Junior Chambers of Com- meres in New York State's Mo- hawk Valley this week signaled the formal launching of a com- bined offensive to rid thir pictur- esque river of offensive pollution. The anti-pollution \war\ by the Jaycees started early in the morn- ing of September 29 with the launching of five canoes at Utica. In the lead canoe, an urn filled with pure water was carried and passed along, like a marathon race torch, to several relay teams of the Junior Chambers of Com- merce of communities along the river arriving finally yesterday afternoon at the new Schenectady Marina. In this way, the Jaycees all along the river symbolically promised clean water to their neighbors downstream. The purpose of the unusual tag race was to draw local public at- tention to the polluted conditions all along the Mohawk River, and to make area residents aware of the financial assistance available through both Federal and New York State pollution abatement aid programs. Today virtually the entire course of the river is pol- luted, with but one small beach meeting minimum health stand- ards for bathing. Population Growth \With the increase in popula- tion growth and industrial activ- ity over many years, we have seen the most beautiful waterway in the East converted into an open sewer,\ said Roland F. Smith, Jaycee River Restroation Project Chairman. \By helping stimulate our communities to avail them- selves of Federal and State finan- cial assistance for the construc- tion of proper sewage treatment facilities, the Jaycees will speed the day when carefree swimming, fishing, and boating in the Mo- hawk will be the rule rather than the exception.\ In their \declaration of war,\ the Jaycees also cited the oppor- tunities to boost the economy of the region by attracting the at- tention of industries seeking ex- pansion or relocation sites to the river clean-up project. Another objective is to attract pleasure boats and vacationers to the wat- ers and shores of the \forgotten vacation-land of the East.\ The first leg of the marathon canoe trip saw the urn of pure water carried from Utica to Ilion, New York, by the Utica and Whitestown Jaycee crews and thence to Little Falls,. New York by the Ilion Jaycees, on Saturday, September 29. Early the next morning the Ilion Jaycees put the boats back in the water, and journeyed to the town of Cana- joharie, stopping for a brief noon ceremony at St. Johnsville. On Saturday, October 6, the Herki- mer Jaycees will receive the urn and move it down the River to Fonda, where it will be passed The Albany Symphony Or- chestra will appear for a convo- cation-concert on October 12 at 7:00 PM. Acting Director of Mu- sic, Hugh Allan Wilson has an- nounced that the program wi:ll include works by Bach, Vivaldi and Beethoven. Professor of Music Edgar Cur- tis will conduct the Albany Sym- phony before leaving for a tour of Europe. Curtis, on sabbatical leave for the fall semester, plans to tour Great Britain, Norway and other European countries. He is \going as a composer and con- ductor and will meet with leading European composers\ while in Europe. While on this European tour, he hopes to work on original scores and to keep \abreast of the new scores being written in Eu- rope.\ Curtis, a native of Scotland, joined the Union Faculty in 1956 and was promoted to full profes- sor in 1960. In 1941, he was chos- en by Serge Koussevitsky to at- tend conducting classes at the Berkshire Music Center. Follow- ing the war, he succeeded Arthur Fiedler as director of the orches- tra of Boston University's College of Music. The American Sym- phony Orchestra has three times chm;en him to attend conductor's conferences of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and of the Cleveland Orchestra. In 1953, he founded the Tri-City Symphony Orchestra and was its manager and director until it merged with the Alhany Symphony earlier in 1962. Aims • • • (Continued from Page 1) that of faculties of other schools of the same character and cali- ber; the institution of a scholar- ship program based upon attain- ment rather than need; and the placing of a faculty advisor with- in each fratemity, who would re- port directly to the Dean of Stu- dents on the academic progress of the fraternity. to the Amsterdam Jaycees. At Am s t e r dam on Sunday morning, the urn will be given to a Schenectady Jaycee canoe team, which will carry it to the Sche- nectady Marina, arriving in mdi- afternoon. There the canoers and urn will be lifted from the water and lead a parade through the citv. At the conclusion a boat, dis.played in the parade to show the damage polluted water can do to a boat hull, will be towed to an island in the River and burned to signal the beginning of the end of Mohawk River pollution. \We want clean waters. It won't happen overnight, but it will happen,\ said the Project Chairman. \It is unfortunatE> that, in this day of astronauts and elec- tronic marvels, we still are plagued with one of man's oldest unnecessary problems. It's an ideal project for the Jaycees to tackle.\ Field's Liquor Store 38 ERIE BOULEVARD [Across from Train Station) '9' T Y \f' 'f Y iff 't i' 'T f 'T i' + T T f 'f f T Y f T f 'f.., f f f f f t f f f t f if Y 'i' f T SAVE ON OUR OWN Olde Village PRIVATE LABEL SPIRITS , ................................................................. ... -WE DELIVER FREE- FR4-6846 Friday, October 5, 1962 F II h . Trim. est·LJ~'S school. This has led to a gradual A Glens Falls man will be hon- ' e 0 ws . lp t;..l ' loss of enthusiasm with its ac- ored tonight for his work in the companiment of intellectual stag- 50th annual fund of Union Col- (Continued from Page 1) At Hanover nation. ' lege. to September, 1962 and must not \To counteract this effect the J. Robert La Pann, a 1944 grnd- , have received benefits for a total Under the sub-title \Structured revised program stipulates that nate of Union, served as chair- ' of two years by September, 1963.''. Sequence of Required Courses,\ a all freshmen shall be 1•equired to· man of his class during the fund WII FRA1 p A formal application must be recent report 1•eleased by Han- take among others an introduc-, dr·ive, which resulted in more than submitted by all applicants for over Colle~e, highlightink its tory cours& in philosophy, which' $211,000 in gifts from Union the desired fellowship on or be- newly-adopted 14-14-5 calendar, will provide an excellent intro- · alumni. LaPann's class led all fo~·e December 1, 1962. All ap-. points out that an important as- duction to the liberal arts concept others which were graduated be- phcants are next required to sub- pect of the Plan is the logical se- while at the same time confront- tween 1942 and 1950 in partici- mit to the Education Department quence of the required courses, ing the freshman with some un- pation. a report of his score on the Grad-. which will be distdbuted over the accustomed modes of thought and ·------------~ uate Record Examination Aptitude first three years. In the freshman evaluation. Tests which are to be taken not year every student will take a .Sequential Sequence later than January 19, 1963. course in philosophy,, an 1'nnova- F ' ll t f 1 t \In either the freshman or · ma · y, a se o supp em en ary tion that requires some explan- documents must be ·submitted by ation. sophomore year a student must February 1, 1963 which includes· take a sequence of two courses in transcripts of all college marks Freshman Weakness the social sciences, a course in and either a recommendation by \The traditional college fresh- fine arts, a sequence of two co1;1rs- · the academic dean for beginning es in the same language, a sa- candidates or the recommenda- man program often exhibits a quence of two courses in the same· tions of at least two faculty mem- weakness which can at times natural science, and one course in hers for advanced candidates. prove very serious. A student en- mathematics. In the junior year· ters college in a mood of eager the student will take one· course ~otification in April anticipation. He hopes to en- in world literature and one in Scholarships are awarded on counter a new kind of intellectual non-Western studies. the basis of the test scores and the challenge, a fresh, exciting, and \The Plan eliminates the pes- submitted recommendations. The unfamiliar approach to learning sibiJi,ty of heterogeneous class en- amount of the awarded .scholarship which will stretch his capacities rollments and allows for a sys- which may range in value from and provide new perspectives. tematic exploitation of back- $500-$2500 depends on the finan- \Unfortunately this has some- ground material. Thus, for exam- cia! need of the recipient. Those times been followed by a period pie, an instructor in world liter- who are successful in their appli- of growing disillusionment as the ature may count on al'l, not mere-· cation will be notified early in student is confronted with cours- ly separate portions, of his class April. fur~ her information .and. e~, text books, and teaching tech- having had a foundation in phi- o~· apphcatwns may be obtamed i mques, many of which bear a losophy, social sciences, religion, e~ther fro~ Dean Huntley or Cal- striking resemblance to those he and history of Western civiliza- vm Schm1dt. has been accustomed to in high tion.\ VA.H CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street RECORDS JAZZ MUSIC POPS ClASSICS Student Discounts AT PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT .•• YOUR EYES CAN BE ON THE STARS BUT YOUR FEET MUST BE ON THE GROUND The glamour and excitement of space age programs often obscure a fundamental fact. It is simply that farsightedness must be coupled with sound, practical, down-to-earth engineering if goals are to be attained. This is the philosophy upon which Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's position as a world leader in flight propulsion systems has been built. Almost four decades of solid engineering achievement at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft can be credited to management's conviction that basic and applied research is essential to healthy progress. In addition to concentrated research and development efforts on advanced gas turbine and rocket engines, new and exciting effects are being explored in every field of aerospace, marine and industrial power application. The challenge of the future is indicated by current programs. Presently Pratt & Whitney Aircraft is exploring the areas of technical knowledge in magnetohydrodynamics ..• thermionic and thermo- electric conversions . .. hypersonic propulsion . . . fuel cells and nuclear power. If you have interests in common with us, if you look to the future but desire to take a down-to-earth approach to get there, investigate career opportunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. To help move tomorrow aioser to today, we continually seek ambitious young engineers and scientists. Your de· gree? It can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL and NUCLEAR ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • ENGI· NEERING SCIENCE or APPLIED MECHANICS. The field still broadens. The challenge grows greater. And a future of recognition and advancement may be here for you. For further information regarding an engineering career at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement officer or write to Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford 8, Connecticut. Pratt & Whitney Rircraft CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORJ?, CONNECTICUT FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA u DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORflo R An Eqvol Opporluntly Employer SPECIALISTS IN fOWER ••• POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS .• Vol. 92 · Kill To. McJ. The cont Webster's 1 between Ul E. Kilburn 1 Magazine's · has reached uling of a: forensic del The two< 1 defense,. M; ; . cution-wil · versial die gram \Cot cast by w· tional tele· York City. The pro~ tober 24, s The tele mark the f participant ing verbal prints for Def Their de burn, asstH lish at Un' of the nev College S:y published article in issue Kill critics oft ably revie' New York Macdom and Kilbm other exch sue of the The deb ried into and that for public: Foresman book, an about the , , tionaries i the basic burn-Macd Wod T{ ] Mr. Da' of the Un partment ternationa City, will ion Colle Committe< luncheon formal so dents. and be held a noon at t All those aged to function~ er any q Fulbright have. The In Education represent: essor of ship app college st qualify f available GovernmE zenship 1 have ean or its c1 speaking guage of will stud For st1 interestec plication Professm guage D must be however, teenth. ' Com mitt< will go < and make clearing· the Instit cation. I the SUCCI notified. not rece since 19E Dr. W influenza en in Si October to be 1 against ,

1962 e hon- · in the i Col- grad- 1 chair- · fund Union all be- I h WILLIAMS' 'FRATERN IllES Page 2 Vol. 92- No.4 Wodlinger To Discuss Fellowships Mr. David Wodlinger, Director of the United States Student De- partment at the Institute of In- ternational Education, New York City, will be the guest of the Un- ion College Faculty Fulbright Committee, on October 18th, at a luncheon at Hale House. An in- formal social gathering for stu- dents and faculty members will be held at one-thirty that after- noon at the Hale House Lounge. All those interested are encour- aged to attend the afternoon function and to ask Mr. W odling- er any questions concerning the Fulbright Program that they may have. B.A. Required The Institute of International Education, which Mr. Wodlinger represents, functions as the proc- essor of the Fulbright Scholar- ship applications submitted by college students. For a student to qualify for these grants, made available by the United States Government, he must possess citi- zenship papers of this country, have earned a Bachelor's Degree or its comparable, and have a speaking knowledge of the lan- guage of the country to which he will study in. For students of Union College interested in this program, an ap- plication can be obtained from Professor Oldenbrook of the Lan- guage Department. These forms must be filled out and returned, however, to him by October fif- teenth. The Faculty Fulbright Committee here at Union then will go over all the applications and make them ready for the final clearing house in New York City, the Institute of International Edu- cation. By March or April 1963 the successful candidates will be notified. A Union student has not received such a full grant since 1955. Students in a 20th Century Literature class at the University of Missouri were taken aback when they reported to their as• signed room, 11 in the Arts and Science Building. Dr. Weaver has announced that Room 11 is a women's rest influenza shots will again be giv- • room. en in Silliman Hall on Tuesday, Donald F. Drulnmond, the in- structor, moved the class to an- October 16. He urges all students other room, commenting. \It's a to be sure and be vaccinated very small ladies room and there against a possibie epidemic. · are 15 students in the course.\ Founded at Union College ln 1877 FREEDOM RIDE Page 3 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1962 PRICE 15 CENTS By Richard Aron Casting has been completed for the Mountebanks' fall produc- tion of Pantagleize, an avante- garde play by Michel de Ghelde- :rode. The play, which \Vill be performed November 16-20, has a cast of 16 men and one woman. The play, typical of the \Thea- ter of the Absurd,\ deals with people who are parodies of them- selves and who therefore lead a life filled with absurdity. Quoting Ghelderode, it is a \farce to make you sad.\ \Pantagleize\ has a m~re realistic base than some of 1ts recent counterparts and should therefore prove easier to under- stand than most avante-garde drama. An amateur philosopher in search of his destiny suddenly finds himself in the midst of a revolution. His rise to importance and his subsequent discovery of his place in the universe compose the plot. A vante-garde Play Written in the 1920's, \Panta- gleize\ is considered one of tpe first avante-garde plays, and Its playwright the \grand-daddy\ of the French Theater of the Ab- surd. Such great contemporary playwrights as Bertolt Brecht, Edward Ablee, Jean Genet, Eu- gene Ionesco, and S~muel Beck- ett owe much of their own style to the dramatic form which Ghelderode developed. Professors Gifford Wingate and John Girdner are jointly directing the production. Pantagleize will be played by Robert S k 1 o o t, Mountebank's president. His Negro servant, Bamboola, will be played by Charles Pankenier. Other students in the cast include John Green- wood, Daniel Caye, Theodore Far- rell, David Kohn, Richard Berg, and Rodney Ruloss. Mary Ann Matthes of Scotia will play the one female role. Albany Symphony Play Tonight By Robert Hoffman The Albany Symphony Orc~estra. will initiate this year's Union College Concert Series tomght. at 8:30. Pr?- essor Curtis, who is now on sabbatical leave ~ill conduct the program consist- ing of Vivaldi's Concerto in G minor \for the Dresden Orchestra,\ Mozart's Sym- phony #40, William's \Fan- tasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis,\ and Elgar's \Enigma ' 1 Variations.\ Three Centuries Spanned EDGAR CURTIS The works to be performed span three centuries and are rep- resentative of several of the great periods in music h~story. The earliest of the four IS one of over 500 concerti for orchestra composed by the great baroque composer-Antonio Vivaldi (1675- 17 41). It, like Vivaldi's well known \The Seasons,\ contains significant solos for the violin, as well as extensive solos for bas- soon and oboe. The origin of the dedication to the Dresden Or- chestra is p1·obably connected with Vivaldi's popularity at the Polish royal court in that city. -------------. Several of Vivaldi's manuscripts Pep Pills Ternted Harnt/ul The following article appeared in the Daily Tar Heel, the under- graduate newspaper of the Uni- versity of North Carolina. The use of so called \pep pills\ as an aid to study drew a sharp warning yesterday from a Uni- versity physician. Dr. E. M. Hedgepeth, direc- tor of the student infirmary, said that the use of such simulants as dexedrine and escretol is very dangerous, and can seriously im- pair the health of the person who takes them. Same As Heroin · He said that if common sense were not enough to prevent stu- dents from the use of such drugs, that the non-prescribed use of them is a federal offense punish- able by the same penalty as for (Continued on Page 6) were discovered in the Dresden Library. Powerful Symphony The second work is Mozart's \great\ G minor symphony. It is the 40th of 41 symphonies written by the prolific genius who com- posed his first symphonies at the age of eight. G minor, which Mo- zart also used in his 25th Sym- phony, his piano quartet K478, and his string quartet K516, is a key to which Mozart turned in order to express some of his most powerful ideas; the 40th symphony is definitely amongst his most powerful, as well as, his best loved works. It is an excellent example of the classical style though it offers unexpected de- partures from it. While the first two works are examples of \Barococo\ music the other two are much more modern eompositions. \Fantasia on a Theme by Thom- as Tallis\ is based on a hymn by Tallis, (1505-1585) the teacher of (Continued on Page . 6) Bradbury to Address Faculty Colloquium Convocations Are Handled By Delphics The Delphic Society, Union's honorary service organization, has taken over the job of distributing and collecting chllpel slips at con- vocations. Professor John M. Bradbury will speak on \The Case for Mississippi or the Southern Renaissance\ at the Fac- ulty Colloquium. to be held Monday, October 15th, in the Faculty lounge at Hale House • . . . at 4 o'clock. It is the first of ~~eU~i~~}f bemg earned on here a series of six scheduled col- F F lk 1 . avors au ner oqma. Bradbury has been concerned \The purpose of this series,\ with the literature of the South JOHN BRADBURY according to Bradbury, \is to pro- vide a sounding board for the re- search of the various professors of Divisions I & II.\ He added that \it is hoped that this will make the other professors and interested members of the student body aware of the work that has .. '!,, since 1920. He has noted a great revival in writing, due largely to the works of such writers as the deceased William Faulkner. Per- haps even more important is the new, liberal attitude concerning the Negro. In the spring, Bradbury's Renaissance of the South, will be published dealing with this change. The Fugitive, his book describing the Southern group of influential writers, has already been published. Students Welcomed The program of Monday's meet- ing will consist of an explanation of the work that he has been doing. He will then open the floor for questioning. Bradbury stressed that any interested person, wheth- er he be a faculty member or student, is invited to come to par- ticipate in the Colloquium. The schedule for the rest of the Colloquia is: November 12- Prof. Lawrence Abbott-\Impressions of Oxford.\ January 1- Prof. Frederick Klemm-\ A Hundred Years of Gerhart Hauptmann.\ February 18-Prof. S. Walter Poulshock-\The Anatomy of an (Continued on Page 3) The savings from this change, a sum of $300.00 will be used to sponsor an extra convocation to be called \The Delphic Society Convocation.\ This year's Delphic Society Convocation will probably feature W. H. Auden. The Delphic Society exists in order \to cooperate with the Ad- ministration of Union College in a manner serving to maintain and further the good name of Union and to be of service to the Col- lege community. Furthermore, it bestows honors upon those mem- bers of the undergraduate body who have contributed valuable service to the college community over a period of time.\ Officers of the Society are Steve Shaph·o, President, Kim Prescott, Vice President, and Jeff F u 11m e r, Secretary-Treasurer. Professor William Cady Stone is advisor. Debt Limited The society is still several hun- dred dollars in debt. It lost money last year as a result of the Grid- Iron Program. Although the or- ganization does not strive for profit, it would like financial aid from the Student Council to cov- er its debt. The Society was nearly defunct last year, and this year Steve Shapiro, President, is making an effort to get it back on its feet. He stated, \We are hampered by the fact that the members of the Delphics, according to its quali- fications as stated in the consti- tution, are the student leaders on campus. Therefore, it is difficult for them to find the time to de- vote to the Society.\

2 l'uulisheJ l!'r!Jays during the school Editorial Office, Washburn Hall. year bY the Student Boc.ly of Union Union College, Publlcation Office, Schenectady Printing Company, 602 College, Schenectady. N. Y. Na- Broadway. Entered In the Sche~ tiona! Advertising Representative: nectadY Post Office as Second Class National Advertising Service. Inc., Jl!all Matter. Subscription l5c a Co!loge Publishers Representative. <·opy; $3 a year dellvered anywhere 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. In the United States. S.K:SIOit BOARD ALFRED 801\!M~)R '63 ................ Dl 6-9969 ...................................... Editor-In-Chief SThlVEN FACTOlt '\63 .................. EX 3-9232... ... . . ......... Business l\Ianager ~liCHAEl. J. Oll'HilON '63 .......... FR 2-1447 .................................. Managing Editor !JA VE THUHSTO:'-; '63 .................... 01 6-9829 .............................. SPOI\ts Editor SI~10:<1 SOBO '64 ........................................................................................... News Editor DAVID BlcR~;:-;suN • 64 ............................................................................ Feature Editor WILLIAM T. WINNE '34 .................................................................................... Advisor JUNIOR BOARD Alan Kaufman '64 ...................................................................... SpPclal Events Editor Marty Newman '64 .................................... . ............. Assistant Features Editor ~lartin Jay '65 ...... .. ........... ............... .. . ................ Assistant Features Editor · Kal Schneider '63 ...................................................................... Art Editor Ht~ve Raymond '63 ............................ . ......................... Local Advertising Editor Bob ilul~on • 64 ............................... . . ...................................... Subscription Editor . Hobert Kram<>r '65 .. ....... . ............................................................... Copy Editor i.an>· Horowitz '65 . . ............................ Assistant News Editor Jti<'hard F.rtlo<>s '65 .. .. ........................................................ Assistant Sports Editor , Ivens Lai•'Iore • 64 .......................................................................... Circulation Manager .llarty Cuh~n • Gj ......... ...... . ...................... Associate Editor ),liLhael H ... rsun • 6;j .. ..... .... . ..... .. ···------·····Associate Editor H.ic'harc.l Aron 'G5 ............................................................. Associate Editor Stanley Brand '65 ...................................................................... Exchange Editor REPORTER STAFf<' Andrew A<\kar Brian Barefoot, Bill Cohen. Arnold Berlwwltz, J. C. Clemens, ~·red !Jill. Larry 1\lcCray, Lawtuu 1\!urrisun. Hick Scharf, Robert Sherwin. Bob Bkluut, Peti.!I\ Bul:::lnJan, Ellsv\o·urth Tracey, :\lark Strom. A World Unnoticed \Exciting\ news is hard to find to fill the front page of Union's newspaper, yet perhaps the reason is that \ex- citing\ events are often superficial, while really meritor- ious events go by unnoticed. The editors of Concordy originally felt this was the worst week for news they had ever encountered, yet was it really? This week's front page is a program of exciting events taking place on campus, created and staffed by the fac- ulty and students. Home-grown culture, it points to the opportunities and talent existing on the campus. Heading the list this week is Professor Kurtz, with his appointment as American Director of the Center of Docu- mentation of Philosophy, a United Nations sponsored or- ganization. It is gratifying to see that one of the posts already held by Kurtz, the directorship of Editorial Cen- ter, USA was formally held by Professor Emeritus, Harold Larrabee. The intellectual pursuits of the faculty, which are gen- erally unknown to the student body, are exemplified by Professors Kilburn and Bradbury. Kilburn, who has twice graced the pages of the Symposium with his defense of the new version of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary will be fighting it out on New York's VHF educational station against its arch opponent Dwight Macdonald. Bradbury on the other hand, in the less rough and tumble school of gentle scholasticism will present what probably will amount to a preview of his new book on Southern writers, at the Faculty Colloquium. Though we reserve judgment as to their importance, watching Bradbury work away in his cubbyhole on the second floor of the library should con- vince any dubious student that some faculty members, (and a large percentage at that) have time and energy for scholarly activity. Professor Curtis is perhaps the best to conclude this group with, for we will all have the opportunity of witness- ing his work this evening. Chairman of our embryonic music department, he has worked unceasingly towards the creation of a really fine orchestra in the Tri-City area. Having recently combined the Albany and Tri-City Sym~ phonies into The Albany Symphony, he will conduct them this evening in Memorial Chapel. For those who feel that the faculty alone is capable of creative and interesting work, another perusal of this weeks paper should change their minds. Our \ever-progres- sive\ radio station, WRUC, is about to make the long talked of merger with Skidmore. For the campus as a whole, the widened feminine audience offered the members of the WRUC staff is of little consequence, but the promise of sweet young voices on the air is most favorably received. The Mountebanks, ever-ready with fine theatrical pro- ductions, are preparing to give the last of their perform- ances in Washburn Hall, before its destruction. For those who witnessed any of their renditions last year, we need not mention the excellence with which they were delivered. The inside pages of the Concordy reveal that the Idol, Union's literary magazine, is again searching the campus for local talent, while the Delphic Society is helping to grace the campus with the foreign variety. One can't begin to go into the myriad of sports activi- ties taking place, all the results, whether good or bad, of Union citizens. What then is News? It is a conglomeration of events taking place on the campus, involving members of the fac- ulty, administration, and student body. It is important that the campus as a whole take greater cognizance of these activities, for they are in essence an extension of classroom activity, and a mirror of our intellectual life. Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: Under us u a 1 circumstances, time does not permit me to write to correct errors published in newspapers, However, in the in- terest of justice, accuracy and for the sake of history, I must inform you that the article regarding the admission of Skidmore women to day session classes at Union is completely in err o r. History makes much of the \first\ individ- ual to break barriers. Let it be ]mown for the record that Miss Rose is not the first Skidmore· wo~an to enroll in Union's day session. Miss Rose's registration took place on October 1, 1962. The first Skidmore woman to register in a day session course at Union is Marlene Topper, a senior at Skidmore majoring in Bio-Chem- istry. Her registration took place before classes began at Union, and therefore her place in history is assured. She is currently en- rolled in Geology 1. The registra- tion data is factual and easily verified. More importantly it must be pointed out that neither of these individuals is the \first\ woman to enjoy Union's day session courses. Many women have been enrolled in day session courses in the past and some have completed degree studies in this way. The only \first\ involved is the matter of the first Skidmore wom- an to be enrolled. This honor be- longs to Marlene Topper. Let his- tory record this fact. The only statements with which I find any agreement are those in- dicating Prof. Youman's pleasure at the arrival of this new era for Union. We in the Geology De- partment welcome both Skidmore women and hope that more will follow their pioneering efforts. Having set the record straight, I close with one comment. Please, for the sake of .accuracy, see the proper authorities before publish- ing unverified information. A call to the registrar's office could have prevented all of the errors. P. C. Hewitt Chairman, :Department of Geology. (Continued on Page 3) Union Then and Now By Jacob Lieb 50 years ago At practically all the football games held on .campus this season there was a noticeable weakness in the cheering. When the cheer leader made his demands unus- ually forceful, a creditable volume of sound was sent out from the bleachers, but at other moments it was evident that strenuous coaching was necessary to put the student body in such cheering form as to do justice to the Union football effort. October 11, 1929 Professor George D. Kellogg spoke before the Schenectady Ro- tary Club yesterday at a lunch- eon. Dr. Kelloff's subject was \Prosperity Stock Market Spec- ulation. and Federal Reserve Bank Control.\ He stated, \The Fed- eral Reserve officials can give adequate warnings of future eco- nomic dangers such as inflation of credit, slackening of business, gold exports, low reserves, and the like.\ 25 years ago Charles D. Coburn, directing head of the Mohawk Drama Fes- tival which takes place annually on the Union College campus, is en route to Hollywood where he is contracted with the Metro- Goldwyn Mayer studios to make two pictures this year. Dean Charles F. F. Garis pre- sented the Berg Scholarship Cup to Kappa Nu Fraternity which will become its permanent owner, for this is the third time this group has led twenty Union Col- lege fraternity chapters in Schol- arship. \All Firearms belonging to Dormitory residents should be turned over to the proctor by Tuesday night, Oct. 12.\ This no- tice was placed under the doors of a~l dormitory residents yester- day as a result of an unfortunate accident last Friday night. A boy from town was passing across campus and, as he walked by South College, was struck by a bullet fired from the direction of the dorm, injuring him slightly. The next morning a bullet hole was found in one of the windows of Silliman Hall. Wednesday night, Old Chapel, Oct. 20, the movie \George Goes to Union,\ will be shown to all students and general public! Stu- dents <~ore asked to invite friends to see this rollicking comedy. What ever happened to that movie? 10 years ago Radio station WRUC will cele- brate its 32nd anniversary Tues- day, and at that time will try to gain nation wide recognition .as the oldest regularly scheduled radio station in the country. 5 years ago It is estimated that the new Robert Porter Patterson Library will cost $750,000 though the fig- ure may be considerably higher by the time of construction. The fund raising committee has done a good job and $350,000 has been collected. Union needs $400,000 more. Where will the additional funds come from? It was a fine Tuesday night when some 75 pajama-clad fresh- men assembled in front of West College dorm with the purpose of carrying on Union's fine, old tra- dition of pajama parade. The freshmen began by storming into Psi U and immediately heading downstairs to the bar. Suffici- ently refreshed, the freshmen pro- ceeded to march off campus and down the middle of N ott Terrace in a single, massed group. Nota- ble among the cars they stopped was a small black Volkswagon containing two smiling girls. Only the restraining influence of Jerry Fincke, who came along for that purpose, kept the paraders from picking up the Volks with its pas- sengers and bringing it back to West College dorm. So far no damage claims have come into the college. The freshman class has broken a tradition. ·~ole Miss'' Editorials Abhor Racial Violence (From the 'Mississippian,' stu- dent newspaper of the University of Mississippi, editorials by Sidna Brower, Editor:) The Jackson (Miss.) Daily News printed an editorial on the front page of the Wednesday aft- ernoon edition giving \a notice of special importance to the people of Mississippi at this time.\ The editorial reminded the cit- izens of the state that although some newspapermen are extreme- ly fair in reporting facts, there are some out of state correspond- ents who deal in presenting slan- derous stories to the public. Reign of Terror \Unfortunately some of them have never read the truth of Mis- sissippi but have taken those rad- ical 'reign of terror' propaganda releases issued by questionable organizations to embarrass the nation in the eyes of the world and to use Mississippi as the gui- nea pig symbol of racism for pro. paganda purposes.\ The editorial went on to say, \If they are here to report factual information, they are entitled to do so.\ . We, a~ this time, would inquire if the editors of the Jackson Daily News have been reading their own paper this week. And if so where did they acquire their \fac~ ual'' information? It seems that the majority of newspapers in the area, many of these out of state, have been somewhat more conservative in reporting the facts and views on the campus situation than some of the state's own newspapers. The Daily News has truly fol- lowed the final words of the edi- torial-\let the verbs and adjec- tives :fl.ow\-in their screaming headlines and sensationalized stories. Unregistered Although approximately 50 re- porters from various newspapers and magazines over the nation have registered at the press room set up in the Lyceum, the Daily News has no registered represen- tative on campus nor do its stor- ies carry by-lines. Again we ask, where are they getting their facts? Perhaps the Jackson Daily News should reread their editorial and stories and \practice what they preach.\ (From the Thursday, Sept. 29 Mississippian) (Another editorial, from the Mississippian of September 21, read:) We want to commend the stu- dents of the University of Missis- sippi for the mature behavior dis- played during the past few weeks. The state and the University were at a point of crisis, and with the (Continued on Page 6) j Friday, October 12, l9d2 ., .. Williams College Adopt~\' Plan to End Fraternitie~ By Martin Jay One again a prominent mem- ber of the national academic com- munity has voiced deep opposition to the fraternity system preval- ent on many of the college cam- puses today. A Williams College trustee - alumni - undergraduate committee report on fraternities, of June, 1962, has disclosed dElep dissatisfaction with existing con- ditions at Williams, and, what is' more important, has suggested a feasible corrective alternative to the present situation. In that Un- ian and Williams are schools of similar cast, both with consider- able fraternity activity, this re- port has much relevance to the situation at our school and thus bears serious consideration in light of our· own problems. Open-minded Attitude Friday, Oc F()otb; Many of place on Saturday < been plam1 game itsE and the er the conte~ craftsmam matist. It for me to 1 the actual qualified t benefit of ed the g~ fill you in tones. Schenectac What most strongly strikes the observer in the report is the thor- oughness and open-mindedness with which the study was com- pleted. No emotional anti-fra- ternity diatribe is the review, nor are the committee's suggestions in the realm of impractical pipe- dreams. The beneficial aspects of fraternity life are frequently ac- knowledged by the committee, all but one of whom is affiliated with a house, and the proposed solu- tions attempt to incorporate these attribute:;. system at present in successful use at Harvard and Yale is not siutable for a school of Williams' 1 type, the committee recommended the consolidation of present units into larger, college owned and op~ erated dormitories. and dining halls. One former fraternity house would . serve as a dining hall and .social center and the other as the sleeping quarters. With new funds, dormitories {)f limited size, complete with their own dining halls and libraries, wo11~d. be constructed. The fr~­ te!,'f'J,ltxe.s, the report asserts, would r.elmquish many of their func- tions which would then be ~s­ sumed by the College. Once this has be~n implemented, \The C<;>i- l~g:e Will be in a far stronger po- Sltlon to extend the educational process outside of the classroom and make it more effective.'' As each of the new units would be in- distinguishable f:vom. tl].e othei;13, ~he jealousy, disappo:lntme}lt, an,d Ill-will generated by concentrat~.d selective admission would be elim- inated. Each unit would, how- ever, retain the ability to provide a healthy feeling of idenity for the individual which is manifest- ed in such activities as intramural athletics. i might be the new brother hoc The committee justifies its ex- istence by stating that fraterni- ties have outgrown their original function and \now play a role which is so all-encompassing that their influence tends to interfere with the broader, more inclusive ends of the College itself.'' The committee specifically repudiates such innovations as deferred rush- ing as being merely temporizers which circumvent the basic prob- lem. They offer a rather drastic reinterpretation of the social structure of the college as the only practical solution to the problem. Realizing that the Students Riot Students' reaction to these pro- posals at Williams has been mix~ ed. The original impetus for the creation of the committee was provided by student petitions and the Williams Record has declared itself on the side of adoption of the proposals. There has been, however, strong anti-committee sentiment among the undergradu- ates with a small-scale protest riot occurring in front of the president's home in September. Returning to the report's rele- vence to the situation at our school, it can be justifiably main- tained that the disadvantages of ' fraternities at Williams are equal- ly evident at Union. The primary (Continued on Page 4) That's SWEATERS POliSHED COTTONS IVY SLACKS nectady is tic curse 1 sunshine 1 out of fo naivete, a hasn't be, wait two· my calcul half-exha1 sunny dai for Prose escalator. A crow into the the conte~ the charm albeit as the actim the field. or six str megaphor force son even diss inert mob word thr Everyone Added ballet of elusion oJ served a ~ 164 Jay St. Suggestion: CAMPUS OUTER WEAR ADLER SOCKS Show Union Identification Card and Get 10% OFF on All Merchandise Exclusive · ·Uni Jai] Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N. Y. -)( i< -1:: Jules and Jim SHOW TIME 7:00- 9:00 A FRENCH COMEDY Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE - FR 4a5294 Two Doors From Mohawk National Bank New Student Rates CHINO SHIRTS 20c PANTS WASH 39c SUITS -------98c SPORT JKTS. --49c PANTS ----- -49c Plain Sweaters 39c Sibs. LAUNDRY $1.20-------lSc per lb .. B Alan I Class of freedom. ninety ot The ric New Ym gress of in New ceded by behavior ticipants The g cars ea June 9. cars wot to Balti meet ar Along tl separate to stage Bunin' side din ty miles the ride sat doWJ prietresf Dov Lel A\ Nl

·i .19d2 ., 'il es ~cessful is not illiams' mended 1t units and 9P~ dinilig tternity dining nd the 1arters. ries of h thei:r llrar1es, 1e fr~­ :,would · func- be as- tee this b:e Col- ger po- :ation,al 1Ssroom e/' As d be iA- otherl), mt, a:O:d ntrated 1e elim- ., how- ' provide ity for anifest- ·amural :se pl'o- m mix~ for the ~e was ms and leclared 1tion of s been, nmittee rgradu- protest of the amber. ;'s rele- at our r main- ages of ~equal­ lrimary ,) iiV£ Friday, October 12, 1962 Fc:totball .Frolics: Art Exhibit Opens 1 the question of what is new in I the \New Figuration?\ Certainly these few do not have the tenta- tive, almost-is air which most of the other paintings seem to have. Richard Mayhew's To Genoa is very poorly lit, thus contributing to the overall impression of the exhibit. Is the New Figuration Sideline Side Show By J. C. Clemens Many of the events which tool< place on Alexander Field last Saturday could not have possibly been planned. But aside from the game itself, th~ circumstances and the environment surrounding the contest seemed the plotted craftsmanship of a master dra- matist. It would @e presumptuous for me to criticize the progress of the actual game as I am- hardly qualified to do this. But for the benefit of those of you who miss- ed the game, I can attempt to fill you in on its dramatic over- men on the field and the sophisti- cates in the crowd. This character appeared in a period costume and succeeded in aimlessly rooting scratching around throughout the contest to no apparent end. His name was the \Dutchman\ and his characterization came as close to the ideal approximation of the Perfect Fool as anyone since Ed Wynn was top banana. We pre- dict great things of this young- ster who is suppasedly a new- comer to our stage. · the beginning of a new trend in tones. Band Plays On Because of the quasi-religious raw, chilly over- overtones of Saturday's contest, · cast and steely some musical link was needed to gray. The wea- · gain the necessary note of festiv- ther was abso- ity customary in this type of con- lutely misera- test. A few years ago, a new in- b 1 e, h a vi n g novation appeared at Union's neither the in- games. It was the Union College teg-rity to rain football band. We must again di- · nor the kind- . gress to explain that Union's ness to shine. It band differs from the traditional was typically football band in that it does not The painting above is part of the art exhibit now on display in the Old Chapel gallery. By Richard Wendover You are probably wondering what this reviewer thinks of the current exhibit at Old Chapel. I. will tell you,. and that will ease your mind. The exhibit, grandly titled \Current American Art: The Ne:w Figuration\ is disap- pointing and puzzling. Disap- pointing because the number of paintings is few, and puzzling be- cause there is no unity to the ex- hibit. The only unity which can be conjured is the speculation that the \figurative style\ is a reaction to a problem which has troubled artist and layman for some time. Factitious Art Schenectady. As an aside here, it march; it is, in fact, sedentary. might be only fair to explain to Only in its music could it be con- the newcomers to Minerva's sidered pedestrian. If Saturday's brotherhood that the city of Sche- drama had to be summed up in nectady is under a perpetual mys- one phrase, I think the phrase tic curse which limits the days of would probably be \And the Band sunshine to a ratio of about one Played On.\ They played and out of four. You may, in your played, through thick and thin. naivete, argue that the weather While at times their limited re- hasn't been so bad so far, but pertoir tended to also limit their wait two weeks· . . . Whe-eee. By powers of lyric expression, they my calculations, we have about were consistent. I heard more half-exhausted our reservoir of good show tunes during this ath- sunny days and it is about time letic contest than I could have for Proserpine to take the down hoped for in any Broadway musi- escalator. In any case, we digress. cal. The selection from the \Mu- Soggy People sic Man,\ played immediately aft- Abstract, non-objective im- er an Alfred stalwart was injured, pressionism, etc., have been the A crowd of 2,100 people milled was perhaps ill-advised, but one 1 v'' 00 \'\ in recent years. Paintings into the soggy stands to watch cannot deny that what was lack- such representative schools are the contest. They must represent ing in sound musical choice was usually sold with a high price tag the chorus since they participated, more than made up for in quan- and a glib intellectual rationale albeit as passively as possible, in tity. Saturday's game was per- to make the buyer and the ar.tist the action which took place on haps the most thoroughly orches- comfortable. The great American the field. From time to time, five trated defeat in the annals of interest in ART as a lei&ure ac- or six struggling young men with sports. The music, the clowns, tivity has spread abroad. An ac- megaphones would attempt to and the chorus were only a small quaintance,. who owns a large gal- force some cry of allegiance, or part of Saturday's drama. In lery and makes yearly buying even dissatisfaction, out of this themselves, each was inconse- trips to both Europe and Amer- inert mob. But ''no dice\ was the quential. But together, these ele- ica, claims that European dealers word throughout the afternoon. ments rose to a crashing crescen- \buy American,\ only because Everyone kept their composure. do. Above it all, eternal man they know that such paintings Added to this already dismal struggling with the eternal ab- will command high prices. They ballet of misfortune was the in- surdities paced the sidelines of are frankly skeptical of their own elusion of another character who Alexander Field last Saturday ability to understand such paint- served as liaison between the dressed as a clown. ing. Artist, dealer and buyer all seem nervous, and with good rea- American Art? It is difficult to tell, for there is little art on dis- play in Old Chapel. A more tangible trend in Amer- ican art is our preoccupation with traditional and modern Oriental art. Those who are interested should watch for the opening of an exhibit of Japanese painting and pottery at th,e Schenectady Museum in the near future. Letters to The Editor (Continued from Page 2) To The Editor of Concordiensis: The pamphlet \The Necessity, Value and Safety of Pesticides,\ is designed to provide authorita- tive refutations to the false claims of food faddists, science- fictionists, and others, who over- emphasize the slight possibilities of misuse of pesticides and over- look the very substantial contribu- tions pesticides make to our good health and abundant, pure supply of food. You may not have time to read all of the pamphlet at the mo- . ment. If not, we hope you will take time to read it later. How- ever, to illustrate that our views are also the views of the coun- try's most eminent medical au- thorities, we think you will be interested in the following open- ing paragraph e>f the statement of the American Medical Associa- tion Council on Foods and Nutri- tion, issued November 18, 1961. :AR · 'Uni~n College Student Jailed as Freedom Rider son, for the field has recently been invaded by Chimpanzees. These clever animals are also able to command respectable prices for their paintings. This is perhaps difficult to understand, for most American have barely had enough leisure time to make the social jump from N ot·man Rockwell. Thus, we almost expect to be greeted by such an explanation as Professor Nowack's which tells us little about the artists, or spon- soring organization, but instead becomes an apology for what the exhibit or the individual .artist is trying to communicate. \The Council on Foods and N u- trition recognizes the contribu- tions that chemical substances in food production, processing, and preservation have made to the quality and quantity of the Amer- ican food supply. While many chemical additives are essential to efficient agricultural produc- tion, others are vital to the manu- facture of food products. There is no reason to believe that the present use of chemicals in foods is endangering the health of people. Responsible manufactur- ers have made careful safety tests before the introduction of new chemicals, and the Food and Drug Administration is diligently and effectively protecting con- sumers from presence of hazard- ous chemicals under. existing fed- eral laws.\ wl -· \' ' , 9c I 49c <i 39c •Ibm By Richard Siftou prepared speech as to why they Alan Bunin, a member of the could not eat there, and when Class of 1964, participated in a they did not leave, she phoned the freedom ride last June with about Sheriff. Bunin and his companions ninety other students. stayed in Elkton County jail Sat- The 1·ide was sponsored by the urday evening but were soon New York chapter of the Con- bailed out. The group then re- gress of Racial Equality, located turned to New York. in New York City. It was pre- Case Pending ceded by meetings in which the behavior and methods of the par- On Monday, June 11, they went ticipants were discussed. back to Elkton for a trial, plead- ing not guilty in the Probate Sat In Court. The case was assigned to The group left New York in . a higher court and still remains cars early Saturday morning, unresolved. There is a maximum June 9. It was planned that the fine of $100 which Bunin might cars would go south on Route 40 have to pay. After the trial, the to Baltimore where they would group again returned to New meet another group of riders. York. Along the way, the cars stopped Bunin said that his reason for separately at diners and stores joining the freedom ride was that to stage non-violent sit-ins. he felt a responsibility to do his . Bunjn's car .stopped at a road- part in achieving equal opportun- S!de diner Elkton County, thir- ities for Negroes. Although the ty miles north of Baltimore and jail record which he unintention- the riders, including one Negro, ally incurred might have adverse sa~ down at the counter. The pro- affects in the future, he feels that pnetress gave them a seemingly the ride was worthwhile. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the Jage~ freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. large parties accomodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREET Louis A. McLean, Secretary Velsicol Chemical Corporation Once we have been told what to Bradbury ... think and how to react, we are (Continued from Page 1) able to relax a little and not Issue: The Politics of the Tariff worry ourselves about what the in Post Civil War United States.\ artist is trying to say. George Tooker's charming grotesque, March 18~Prof. Bruce Clem- Acrobats, and Balcomb Green's ents-\The Modern Hero.\ Interior,,both speak and need no Aplil 15 -Prof. Joseph Monane apologists. Wilson's Yellow Iris, Kahn's Emily in Green and Lich- -\Language and Art as Areas tenstein's Standing Rib prompt of Social Research!' Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian - American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking 01 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. ACME Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Catering to Union College Students 3 Cinema Review: Jules and Jint Jules (Oskar Werner), and Jim After the war, the three are re- (Henri Serre) meet and are im- united at Catherine's and Jules' mediately drawn to each other. chalet. This meeting reveals that Jim, a native Parisien, sets a:botlt the years of the war have chang- acquainting the Austrian Jules ed Jules and Jim. Jules admits to with life in Paris. Together, Jim that he is unable to keep they \paint\ Paris, each delighted Catherine. with the other's company and Yo-Yo Action both experiencing a rebirth ill From here on, it's anybody's interests. Together, they box, go guess what exactly happens. It on excursions in the country, seems that Catherine, Jules' and share women, and discover the Jim's picture of the perfect worn- essential similarity in their tastes.· an has been in bed with practical- Their's is the perfect friendship. ly every man they know, includ- At their friend Alberte's house, ing Alberte, whe keeps hopping they are shown a picture of a in and out of the set. Eventually, smiling statue; so beautiful is in fact, she gets pregnant by Jim, the smile that they swear never who has fallen in and out of love to rest until they meet the face with her several times. The con- associated with it. Catherine, elusion, fitting the confusion be- played by Jeanne, Moreau, is the fore it, consists simply of Cath- face, which they soon meet. No erine driving off a bridge with one could be happier than the trio Jim, ki-lling them both. of Jules, Jim and Catherine. Once, It's not difficult to see what Catherine dresses like a bum and director Francois Truffant is try- smokes a cigar, and they all go ing to show us here, although his traipsing through the streets of photography and script make art Paris. Another time, Catherine, admirable attempt at trying to in a fit of anger jumps into the disguise it. In fact, he literally Seine in her evening dress. states his theme several times: All this intrigues Jules and \Woman and love are feminine, Jim, and so the three rent a cot- man and death are masculine, life tage outside of Paris. Here, Jules is neuter.\ What makes the movie now deeply in love, proposes to difficult, and nearly unintelligible Catherine. They are married just in spots, then, is Truffant's great before the war begins. Jules must conviction that metaphors make fight for the Germans, and thus the movie. An hour and three- is separated from both his friend quarters of metaphors is cer- and Catherine. tainly a lot for anyone to take. ~.Attention SENiOR and GRADUATE MEN Students 0 ~ WHO NEED SOME FINANCIAL HELP IN ORDER TO COMPLETE THEIR ;; ~ EDUCATION DURING THIS ACADEMIC YEAR AND WILL THEI'I COMMENCE ~ ~w~ o d Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION, INC. F! A Non-Profit E~ucationa! Corp. 610 ENDICOTT BLDG,, ST. PAUL 1, MINN. m 8 8 VV Lan~s 1723 Van Vranken Avenue STUDENT RATES 35c per game up till6 PaM. on Weekdays 45c per game after 6 P.M. and Weekends BAR ON PREMISES 8 FREE SHOES (Save 25c) to College StJ.~~nts tt For three Generations ••• ihose Who Know .. Have been recommending - 8 HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Manriue B. Granbart & _Sons .;: ':- - .. \Jay Street Jeweleii!r·_ , 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Upper Union Street-Presents KENNY BURALL Guitarist and Group & Sat. Nights 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. Sunday Night 8 P.M. to 2 A.M. Just Completed Engagement at Basin Street East -·also- GEORGE MONTERO JAZZ TRIO Nightly 9 P .M~ to 3 A.M. ~~·-- at 1·617 Union Street

4 friday, October 12, 1962 New Faces at WRUC Williams • • • Bridge Column (Continued from Page 2) objection, that of interference with the educational process, has been adamantly supported by our faculty in the past. It is some- what obvious that the fraternity often replaces the classroom as the center of campus activity dur- ing the four years a considerable segment of Union's students l=lpend in Schenectady. The executive board at WRUC takes pride this week in introduc- ing some of the ta:Iented fresh- · men who are now full fledged members of the programming de- partment of the Station. This year, as opposed to previeus years, WRUC is featuring an ususually large number of freshmen on the air; this fact is due primarily to the hard work of the upper class members of the programming staff, especially WRUC's chief announcer Bob Gil:lespie. By Bill Brazell Frosh Footballers To Meet Wesleyan North 4> A K 6 By Charles Sinclair gain, and only half of the passes • K 6 •AJ1094 oft 7 3 2 The .first game of the season. .vere ever thrown, the varsity for the freshman football squad iE · quarterback being underneath a rapidly drawing nigh, and the ;>ile of tacklers the rest of the players are eager to take or jme. West East Wesleyan tomorrow at two o'clock... Allison Optimistic • 10 3 • 9 8 7 4 2 ., Q 9 5 3 \ 10 7 4 2 • 7 6 • K 5 A Stagnant Union ole A 10 8 6 5 \' Q 4 It is unfortunate that Unien, a great innovator in the early 1800's has become a stodgy traditional- ist in the middle 1900's. If we seek to emulate schools of Wil- liams' caliber, as has been inti- mated by members of the admin- istration, might it not be most valuable to mimic the progres- sivent>s::> of the proposals outlined above? The William::> we strive to copy should not be the streo- typcd tweedy-playboy school that the name \\Vi!liams\ so often in the pa::>t evoked, but the exciting, dynamic center of academics that the Williams Committee on Fra- ternity Review is attempting to make of their school in the pres- ent. Mike Franklin, the sleepless wonder, wakes up the campus throughotlt the week at 7:30 AM, Monday through Friday. Our bearded page, Tim Miller, makes his presence more than known Monday, Wednesday, and Friday mornings at 9:30 as does Dave Braff, Bang-Bang's prodigious brother, at 6 PM Monday through Wednesday evenings. South The game is at :home, so bring · Coach Allison said Wednesday your portable to the fJ,eshma'rl that he thinks the squad is hit- game and listen to the varsity jng and executing \pretty well,\ game at the same time. The boys .vhich is a more optimistic state- are in high spirits for this game, ment than most coaches usually • \ • \\ Bidding: N 1D 3N.T. Q A Q K E Pass Pass J .J 8 J 5 8 3 2 9 s 2N.T. Pass w Pass Pass but they need your support. · .make. The team is generally in LaPorte Scores · shape physica!Iy, while the men- Three big drills marked the.· tal attitude is good. Several more past week's activity. Last Friday, mjuries have played havoc with the offensive unit was beaten 6-0 the team, but, en the whole, they by the defensive unit. The only are seund. Mike O'Connor, the Tomorrow afternoon the stu- dent .body of Union will be treat- ed to professional broadcasting as Frosh Bob Rice wiH do the play- by-play of the Rochester game. Our newest DJ is Steve Duban- sky who will make his radio debut next Friday at 10:30 AM for two hours of excellent recorded mu- sic. Opening lead: West 6 Clubs ·score came when half-back George Irish Texan, was hit in the knee 'LaPorte ran 50 yards off tackle. a week ago yesterday, and has From this one may deduce that. not dressed this week. He was the two squads are fairly evenly one of the first four ends. George UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT UNION JNN-517 Union St. This is the first bridge column for this academic year. In fu- ture weeks, selections will be pre- sented by various members of our bridge-playing faculty. Bridge hands wiU be chosen from our own tournaments which are held in Hale House at regular inter- vals. This particular hand, how- ever, was taken from the 1960 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament. In this week's hand, the old cliche \Haste makes waste\ proves to be a wise one. The normal con- tract is three no-trumps. With South being the declarer, West's accepted lead is the Club 6. East will play the Queen as it is a gen- eral rule to play high in the third position when partner leads a small card. The moment of de- cision is at hand for South. If South covers the Q with his K, East will eventually win a dia- mond trick, return his last club Our future is in the hands of men not yet hired At Western Electric we play a vital role in helping meet the complex needs of America's vast communications networks. And a career at Western Electric, the manufacturing arm of the nation-wide Bell Telephone System, offers young men the exciting opportunity to help us meet these important needs. Today, \Vestern Electric equipment reduces thousands of miles to fractions of seconds. Even so, we know that our present communications systems will be inadequate tomorrow; and we are seeking ways to keep up with-and antici- pate- the future. For instance, right now vVestern Electric <'ngineers arc working on various phases of solar cell manufacture, miniaturization, data transmission, futuristic telephones, electronic central offices, and computer-controlled production lines-to name just a few. To perfect the work now in progress and launch many new communications products, projects, procedures, and processes not yet in the mind of man - we need quality-minded engineers. If you feel that you can meet our standards, consider the opportunities offered by working with our company. In a few short years, you will be Western Electric. Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industricll, and chemi- cal engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will re- ceive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College .Rela- tions, Western Electric Company, Room 62-06, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when our college representatives visit your campus. Western Electric MANUFACTURING AND SUPPlY @ UNJT OF THE SELL SYSTEM Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, Ill.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale Pa.· Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, 'okta: Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N •. J, Teletype Corporation, Skokie, 111., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric dlstri• butlon centers In 33 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, Nev1 York 7, N. v. thru South's J-9 combination into . matched. On Tuesday and Wed- Master, another end, has a rib in- West's A-10-8-5 holding and set nesday, the frosh scrimmaged the jury, but he is still in action. Tom the contract. South must, there- varsity,, and showed exti'emely Jacobson, formerly the number fore, duck West's Q. He will then well against them. Offensively, two quarterback, is working out, lose another Club trick on East's they ran Rochester plays, which but is not wearing pads. Fortun- return, but his contract is secure. meant that the players would get ately, the Dutchboys are blessed When eventually East wins a dia- ·their assignments by looking at with a plethora of ends, and mond, he will be unable to return a diagram in the huddle before O'Connor's loss is not drastic. a club for he has akeady used running the play. Naturally, you The two units are in good shape, aU of them. The holdup on trick can't play effective football in this and will be ready to play rock'em one :by South was an investment manner. However, many times and sock'm;n football Saturday. which assured the contract. The the offensive unit ripped off five Tomorrow is the test of the declarer will claim 1 Club, 4 Dia- and ten yard gains. Using this team. Highly vaunted thus far, monds, 2 Hearts, and 3 Spades method of learning plays, if you there is at the moment no excuse for a total of 10 tricks when he can g~in at all, you have accom- for a poor showing, so a loss can was required only to obtain 9 plished s 0 met hi n g, especially be attributed solely to the squad. tricks. There is quite a difference when playing the varsity. The offense has proven solid, as in making a contract and in being it has been tested many times by set one trick. In duplicate scor- Stop Varsity other teams and has not been ing the difference would have Defensively, the scrimmages found lacking. The defensive line been 680 points. went almost as well. The defen- averages 200 pounds and should The next Faculty-Stud en t sive unit, captained by Bob Di- stop anything. Even without hav- Bridge Tournament will take. Michele, held the varsity almost ing seen Wesleyan, we'll call the place on Tuesday, October 23. All stationary for most of the prac- Dutchboys 14 point favorites, be- those interested in playing should tice, with the varsity finally run- cause they have proven them- contact Professor Bacon or Bill ning for twenty yards several selves against the varsity, and Brazell. Winners in this week's times near the end. Most of the they have no reason to lose, and student tournament were: 1st-- varsity plays were stopped for no know it. BrazeU-Gilbert, 2nd-Bader-Dia-l-----'--'-__.::. ____ ..:...:, ____ '-------~------- mond, and 3rd-Lehmann-Holz- houep. --------------- Profesor Sven Peterson of Philosophy will speak on The School Prayer Issue on W ednes- nesday, October 17, in the music room of the library, from 8 :00 to 9:00 PM. The meeting is co- · sponsored by the Christian Asso- ciation and Hillel. Discussion will follow the talk. THERE IS A BIG DIFFERENCE ROBIN Ring .$ 225.00 Also $200 to 1800 Wedding Ring $39.75 The real difference in dia- monds is 11 quality.\ Every Keepsake engagement center diamond is guaranteed perfect (or replacement assured), Rinp enlarged lo tlaow detaEI. Prh:a Include Federal Tu. Buy With Confidence Ti10~ C~nte; .. Jt;w~l~;rs 428 State St. FR 4-0183 Ti01~ CEnt~ .. Jewel«;rs \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY TODAY- LAY IT AWAY! Union's Football Statistics Here is the official statistical rundown on the Union College football team after two games: Record: Won 0, Lost 2 St. Lawrence 34, Union 0 Alfred 26, Union 11 Rushing: Carries 16 14 2 13 2 4 14 Marshall, hb Swain, fb Hutchinson, fb Eales, qb Hopkins, hb Gilmartin, hb Burgwald, hb Dill, qb Union totals - Opp. totals - Passing: 5 70 98 Net Yal'ds 89 75 10 57 6 9 24 1 271 506 Ave. 5.5 5.3 5.0 3.0 3.0 2.2 1.7 0.2 3.8 5.1 Att. Comp. Yds. Int. Eales, qb Dill, qb L'nion totals Opp. totals 32 15 64 4 5 1 10 1 37 16 74 5 31 11 156 1 Receiving: Caught Umscheid, e 3 Gilmartin, hb 2 Yds. Gained 16 4 Willcox, hb 1 10 Sawyer, hb 1 7 Bowman, e 3 22 Burgwald, hb 3 16 Marshall, hb 2 0 Swain, fb 1 -1 Conv. Conv. TDs R-P K FG .. Pts. Burgwald, hb 1 0 0 0 6 Marshall, hb 0 0 0 1 3 Union totals 1 0 0 1 11* Opp. totals 8 3 3 1 60 *Includes \team\ safety against Alfred. Punting: Kicked Kicked hb 7 180 Burgwald, Dill, qb Bowman, e Union totals Opp. totais 1 30 5 148 13 358 8 290 Ave. 25.7 30.0 29.6 27.5 36.2 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTI ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 15 - 65 Van Vranken Avenue SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts RICCI TELLO'S Erie Boulevard at Jay Street -}~­ Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks-Chops • SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS Pat Fant~ Union Col : linemen a week agai considered The attempt season.~ last Satt tims of Alfred s lOOth vi( of head c . The Gar i but fait' · cial porn fatal sec lopsided The ga1 ons recei off and i Dutch tel was just~ ever, as put on a captain I a pass or some sho were fore ons agaiJ Quarterb1 off tackle to the G fifteen y: ·vount, a1 by Fullb tally. ThE was no € The D1 ing early they rece on the fiJ opened a Art Ma· twenty Swain cc two more and anot short gai and hit wald on i the folic ried the net's fir• the seas the one neatly b score wa The S their ov kickoff, wall helc Pete W• charge.: and ex~ the Saxc With the Dut Marshali through to Burl! two com With th carried j .Saxons 1 booted ~ yards 01 Alfrec lead bef, sion, bu fensive batted d pass by period e ahead 9· The (

'S rn ~ passes ' varsity I 1eath a '·,' of the ! dnesday ; is hit- ' 'f well,\ ' c state- usually t•ally in 1e men- a! more oc with le, they 10r, the be knee md has Ele was George L rib in- Seeks. First Win • nton omorrow At Rochester 5 Rooters Lose, 4-0 and J;.l The Union College soccer team· Harriers Cop ECA·C Na~nes Wenger Second Place ,.,., All E t El By AI Starr ~ 0 • • as even · traveled this past week to Clin- ton, N. Y. to play Hamilton and The drought has ended for the to Middlebury with something less Union cross-country team. After than successful results. Both op- two winless seasons, the Garnet ponents fielded strong teams, and, finally were victorious as they de- as a result, the Garnet was de- feated Oneonta last Saturday. feated by 4cO and 3-1 scores. Un- Unfortunately, the meet was a ion will attempt to even its record triangular one, and the Dutchmen tomorrow when they meet Hobart were soundly thrashed by host at 3:30 P.M. on Garis Field. Harpur College on the host team's The Hamilton game was played slippery, rain-soaked course. The in a steady rain and on a very team may have been saved from muddy field. Coach Carl Wit~el another defeat when Utica Col- started the same team which lege chose not to participate in brought him ,a victory over One- the meet. onta in the opener. Hamilton The 4.4 mile course proved too pressed Union throughout the difficult a jaunt for the Garnet first quarter and its efforts paid harriers as Harpur placed two off when their center forward runners ahead of Union's top fin- scored when a Union defenseman ishers, Larry Newton and Gary slipped in the mud, leaving. his Morris. Senior Doug Allen, still opponent all alone for the shot. hampered by blisters on his feet, His boot sailed past the diving and soph John Hann failed to Dutchman goalie, Brian Barefoot, impress, and the entire team and put Hamilton ahead 1-0. The \didn't run as well as expected.\ Garnet offense was completely · stopped by a very strong half- Frosh Pace Varsity back line and the fine Continental This fact was obvious at prac- Saturday's hard fought foot- 19-yard field goal that put Union ball game between Alfred and ahead in the game 9-6. Union resulted in a player from During an Alfred punting situ- each team being named to the ation in the fourth quarter, Wen- Eastern College Athletic Confer~ ger again broke through and ence weekly All-East team. tackled punter Dave Lutsic in the Union's Pete Wenger was nam- ·end zone for a two-point safety. An outstanding offensive per- formance by Baker helped win the game for the Saxons. He net- ted 118 yards on 16 carries and scored three touchdowns. It was the second week in a row that he was honored by the ECAC. He was picked sophomore of the week following Alfred's 12-8 win over Brockport. m. Tom number tng out, Fortun- blessed ls, and drastic. : L shape, rock'em trday. Pat Fantauzzi (left), and John Willcox are two members, of the fullbacks. Union's passes were tice on Monday when Newton ran Union College football team who will not see action tomorrow. Both continually intercepted by the a 15:55 three mile-the best he linemen are hampered by leg injuries. Their loss felt heavily last alert defenders and turned into has ever done. Heralded frosh week against Alfred, is one more reason that the Garnet will he plays which put heavy pressure runner Dave Ring was second in considered underdogs tomorrow. on the Garnet goal. this time trial with a time of Two other players on the field Saturday were ·nominated for ECAC honors. They were Alfred tackle Tom Quinn, who tied Wen- ger in the press box poll for the outstanding lineman of the game, and Union halfback Art Marshall who was nominated outstanding sophomore. Marshall led Union's offense with 66 yards on eight carries. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT of the tus far, ' excuse loss can l squad. :olid, as imes by Jt been dve line should outhav- call the ites, be- them- ty, and >se, and • ~ICS Gained 16 4 10 7 22 16 0 -1 lV. FG .. Pts. 0 6 1 3 1 11* 1 60 against A.M. tP ate) ry ltlS By Richard Erdoes . The Garnet will travel to Rochester tomorrow in an attempt to capture their first victory of the still young '62 season. The Dutchmen dropped their second game in a row last Saturday becoming vicm • . . tims of grid history as the stalled m the thud quarter as the Alf · . Saxons led by last week's ECAC red squad gathered the1r \Sophomore of the Week\ Bill 100th victory under the reign Baker picked up two touc~downs of head coach Alex Yunevich. ~o g~ B;head 19-9. Halfback Baker The Garnet showed promise m pic~mg up ~oth scores plus an- . b f l . ' other m the fmal stanza, and 118 i :ut a .tered at s_everaf cru- yards rushing, while playing only cml pornts, especially m the half a game, showed quite con- fatal second half, causing the vincingly why he was so honored. lopsided 26-11 outcome As the fourth quarter opened Th . · Alfred was again in a punting e ga_m.e opened With. the ~ax- situation on the Garnet 22 yard ons rece~vmg ~he open_n::g k!ck- line. Center Phil Wirtz came up off and Implediately dl'lvmg I~to with the most fantastic play of the Dutc~ territo~y. The penetratiOn day, however, as he lofted the hike was. JUst as, q~ckly reJ?ulsed, how- nine feet over the outstretched evei, as 6 ~ end B1ll B_owman hands of punter Dave Lutsic, and put o.n a stiff rush ena~lmg co- clear into the end zone whe 1 ·e captam Dav~ Eales . to mtercept Lutsic fell on the ball followed a pass on h1s !>Wn fifteen. After by Wenger, who thus rang up a some short gams the Marasmen safety and two more Garnet were for~ed to pu~t, and. the Sax- points. ons agam went mto high gear. Quarterback Joe Renwick carried End of Scoring off tackle for twenty-seven yards Unfortunately this rather un- to the Garnet 23, setting up a 1 1 d d th U · • fifteen yard run by halfback Joe usua pay en e e . mon scor- ing for the day and a rather dis- y ount, and a three yard plunge appointing loss became history. by Fullback Joe Shea for the tally. The kick for the conversion Several outstanding perform- , was no good. Alfred 6, Union 0. ances were noted, however. Prob- ably the most promising came On The Move from Art Marshall, who has The Dutchmen finally got roll- worked his way into the Garnet ing early in the second quarter as backfield as a Burgwald replace- they received an Alfred punt and ment and now as top man at the on the first play from scrimmage wingback slot. ·Besides his boot- opened a big hole for wingback ing on kickoffs, extra points, and Art Marshall, who drove for field goals, he has been a de- twenty yards. Fullback Chick pendable runner for short yard- Swain continued the drive with age for first downs, and a con- two more carries netting 16 yards stant threat to the opposition on and another first down. After a the breakaway. On several long short gain, Eales took to the air gains one key block would have and hit co-captain Pete Burg- 'enabled him to go all the way. wald on the one yard line. On An injury suffered last week, , the following play Burgie car- however, may limit his action to- , ried the hide across for the Gar- morrow. net's first score of the game and Pete Wenger with his rough the season. Marshall's kick for and tumble, aggressive football the one point conversion was has done a fine job on both of- neatly blocked, however, and the fense and defense and against Al- ~:~core was evened up at six all. fred set up the field goal and The Saxons moved the ball to also scored two points. Bowman their own twenty-eight on the and Umscheid have likewise been kickoff, but the Garnet forward very reliable, and of course Eales wall held fast and forced a punt. can never be overlooked. The Pete Wenger \)Ut on a vicious key man at this point is, how- charge from h1s linebacker slot ever, Butgwald who still has not and executed a perfec~ block on reached peak condition due to his the Saxon kick. early season injuries. When he With this golden opportunity gets his timing back and starts the Dutchmen headed goalward. grinding out the yardage the ef- Marshall began with a short run fective way ):),e did last year, the through the line, and Eales fired Garnet attack will be tough ot to Burgwald and Bowman for stop. two completions and a first down. Rochester will be a tough test, · With the ball on the ten, Swain and the Garnet won't be entering carried for short yardage and the the contest as favorites. But last Saxons held until Art Marshall year's squad pulled a strong 15-0 1 booted a field goal from fifteen upset and there is no reason why yards out. another such victory isn't poss- ible. Barefoot Stubbed 16:15. After Ring came Morris Late in the first quarter, Bare- followed by four members of the foot was injured stopping a fast-developing frosh squad-all breakaway and sure goal by Ham- finishing under 17:08. Thus the ilton. Toby Lustig then assumed frosh put in a full team ahead of goalie chores, but found the same the third varsity finisher. The harrassment his counterpart had varsity's lack of depth was obvi- been encountering. Hamilton tal- ous as they sorely missed the lied three goals in rapid succes- hobbled Andy Warde. sion during the big second quar- The varsity outlook is optimis- ter against a rather leaky Garnet tic and yet not too promising. defense. One shot, for instance, \We are better than last year rebounded off Lustig and a Ham- and I hope we develop,\ says ilton player was right there to Coach Ketz. With a small squad, push in the rebound. the Garnet certainly can not af- With Barefoot returning to the ford \spotty\ performances from Union nets for the second half, any of the members of the team. Union was hopeful of regaining Both varsity and frosh runners its composure, which they did to swing into action tomorrow at a certain extent. The Garnet Vermont against a strong host hooters, however, were not given team. \Everybody is in there many shots at the Hamilton goal rarin' to go,\ says Ketz. Let's and the boots the Dutchmen did hope they go farther against Ver- get were stopped. Union did come mont than they did against on strong the remainder of the Harpur. game and dominated play but 1---'::__-~--------- were unable to really threaten with his outstanding play. After seriously and the game wound up another Middlebury tally stem- in Hamilton's favor, 4-0. ming from a scramble in front of Middlebury Visit the Union goal, Van Winkle rna- The Union kickers traveled to· neuvered through three Union Middlebury, Wednesday, to fa<;e backs to a score on a clean shot a traditionally strong soccer team. at the Ga:rnet net . Although there was no rain, field The final score wound up 3-1, conditions were 'poor with both hardly a shameful defeat for a goals surrounded by a half foot scrappy Union team. Nelson, Ter- of mud, making goaltending next pening, Helber and Dusenbury to impossible. Witzel started John displayed excellent soccer abili- Garey and Jack Powell at wings, ties throughout the encounter, Bill Bernhard and Rolf Kasper at showing that Union will be tough insides, and Lar.ry McCray at to beat throughout the campaign. center foreward. ['he Garnet de- Special praise should be left for fense started with Chris Dusen- Barefoot, however, who registered bury, Pete Bishko ·and Co-captain 24 saves, at least a dozen of which Age Terpening at: halfbacks and bordered from good to unbeliev- John Nelson and Co-captain Herm able considering the field condi- Helber at fullbacks. Barefoot once tions. The rangy sophomore ex- again opened in the Union nets. hiibted the talent that made him PETE WENGER ed first team center and Alfred's Bill Baker took top honors at one of the halfback positions. Wenger, an ex-Bethlehem Cen- tral gridder, played an outstand- ing defensive game at linebacker, despite Union's 11-26 loss to the Saxons. The 6-1, 189-pound junior broke through the Saxon line in the second quarter and blocked a punt which set up a successful ~ ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises ~ICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 Specializing in Italian-American food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 tO% Discount to Union Men Enjoy Our Sizzling Steaks and Chops ~~llllllll~llll~~~llll~l!!llllll!!l~~l!!l~ i Shaver Service I ~ Ropal\ & Sale• on ~ \\ all makes of lfi1 llll 1!!1 11'!1 Electric Shavers ~ I - 1fi1 Phone FR 4-97 41 l!ll llll 1!!1 ~ 724% STATE STREET ~ ·~ 11'!1 .~!j!lillli]jg][ijl~i!!<li-!!li!!~il!!~il!!lllliEI~ RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC KORNER Middlebury, paced by All- Witzel's choice to start in the American wing, Keith an Winkle Union nets after a tough battle State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 and hi!! all-New England brother all fall with Lustig. Union may ~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;~::5i~~~~~~~~~;;;;~~;;;;~~~ at halfback, so dominated play in have found itself a real goalie in • the first half that Union failed to :_:th~i~s~~~~~~~~----. get off one clear shot at the op- r posing goal. The hosts continued topepper the Garnet goal, forcing Barefoot to make several desper- ation diving saves. The Union forward line tried desperately to get a drive underway, but were thwarted time and time again by the Middlebury defense, the pud- dles and the mud. 430 State St. CANNON BATH TOWELS 36x66 inches Imprinted with Union College Seal $3.98 IN THE COLLEGE BRAND ROUN,D ·UP PRIZE: Beautiful 19 in. Admiral Television (Portable Model) Baker Havoc Alfred attempted to regain the ~ead before the halftime intermis- sion, but Eales with a fine de- fensive effort leaped high and batted down an end zone-destined pass by QB John Thorne, as the period ended with the Dutchmen ahead 9-6. The outstanding play of Bare- foot, Terpening, Helber and Nel- son, however, saw the first half end in a scoreless tie. Midway through the third quarter, the Garnet luck ran out as center for- ward Steve Brown tallied with a boot eminating from a goal-mouth scramble. The Garnet offense then rose ti> the occasion and started pressing their favored op- ponents. Larry McCray knocked in a shot after the ball deflected off a Middlebury fullback ani the score was knotted, but not for long. Van Winkle showed why he is considered All-America timber Applications for New York~===========================- Prize will be awarded to any Group, Fraternity, Sorority WHO WINS: or Individual who qualifies and has the highest number of points. The Garnet attack completely Scholar Incentive Awards for the spring semester are available in the Student Aid Office. All elig- ibles who did not receive a grant in the fall should fill out an ap- plication. MAMA BIANCHI'S Restaurant 1135 Barrett Street Open Till 1 :00 A.M. on Weekdays and 3:00 A.M. on Friday and Saturday Nights - Free Parking - BRING YOUR DATES MIDTOWN Barber Shop 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care RULES: 1. Contest open to all students of Union College. 2. Each empty ·package submitted on Marlboro, Parlia· ment or Alpine will have a value of 5 points. Each empty package submitted on Philip Morris Regular or Commander will have a value of 1 0 points. 3. hi . order to qualify each entrant must have 15,000 pomts. 4. Closing date, time and location will be announced in your campus newspaper. 5. No entries will l:!e accepted after closing time. Empty packages. must be submitted in bundles of 100 packs separating 5 and 1 0 point packages. Get on the BRANDWAGON ••• it's lots of fun! I ' I o. f • J. II.

6 Ole Miss Stays Calm The following article appeared in the Daily Tar Heel, the under· graduate newspaper of the Uni- versity of North Carolina. Friday, October 12, 1962 Music .. . Pornography? 'Pep Pills ... · the welfare of the user.\ He said . they could, and in some cases do, · lead to addiction. · (Continued from. Page 1) (Continued from Page 1) one of England's great early • The following letter appeared ·body's postare could be deter- · . . . , composers, William Byrd. The·· in the Letter To The Editor Col- mined in one minute-why do · takn~g dp~g;S' such as m_orphme or modern composer, Ralph Vaughn ; um.n of the Tufts Weekly news· they produce the picture of us? 'l herom, Illicitly. He said the use Williams, who adapted old forms •pa·per. Further, obviously during a pos- of these drugs not only does not ; and .techniqu~s, as w.en as t~e old. \What would you think of a ture test a person is going to help the students preparefor an · Tal.hs,h¥mn, IS ereatiU.? the Fan- society that forced young ladies . stand up straight--if they can. exam, but frequently wakes up ' tasm, ~~ known as .. The gra!ld . to \strip\ off their clothes, and Hence, if they can stand up !'nd tenses a person so much that . old man of t~e 1:3ntisJ:l RenalS· walk into the spot light of a dark- , straig.ht they pass the posture. It freezes what knowledge he may : SE~ECA FR7-2155 1585 VanVranken Ave. sa~c~. He, BenJamm B:r:Itten, and ened room, to be looked at by God test. However, I don't believe it have had already. . Student leadership in the Uni- Wilham W~ltron are mnovators only knows who? Further, the is necessary to have a girl \strip\ Dean E. A. Brecht of the Uni- • L d versity of Mississippi appeared wh_o. have al!fed the re:;urgence of girl is then instructed by \deep\ just to \see\ for sure that a versity's Pha!macy school was ~n , aun ry calm and undisturbed after the Bntlsh musiC. by turr;mg ba~k to. voices from the darkness to turn girl's backbone is warped. agreement With Dr. Hedgpeth m . riot Sunday in interviews with old so~rces, hke Tallis, for Ideas. \right\ and \left\ while she is You must realize that this is his stand a~ainst the. pep drugs. . Dry Cleaning DTH reporters in Oxford. on \Vhtch to base new works. standing completely in the NUDE. • not an easy subject for girls to He also cal}tlOned aga~r;st the use, • Most of the offices in the stu- Enigma Variations Further, the girls flowing lines discuss. We spend most of our of these .stimulants, c1tmg a case : Chinos dent unian were closed Monday The last of the works to be are recorded for all time--again . moments· trying to forget the or-. from his undergraduate days, • morning, and the President was performed \The Enigma Varia- for God only knows who--for deal. I personally would never when the. drugs first .cal?e out, . Shirts tl 'ons,\ 1 ·s also the pr·oduct of a someone to examine in the form want my daughter to have to go At that time, a prescnpbon was · holding a meeting with the Asso- t d d t th d u s cia ted Student Body Dance Com- modern Englishman's efforts. Its • of a pict:zre. . . . through the \STRIP TEST\ 0f no nee e · 0 procure e r ~ ' • mittee to discuss plans for the composer Sir Edward Elgar, You might thmk that this was Jackson University. · and students ~oak them quite · H · B 11 worked a't com·pos1'ng w~1'le e1n- • a. perver.se society. If a fratern- • Name Withheld freely. Soon It was observed,· upcommg omemg a · d · however,. that the drugs caused a President Dick Wilson was played as church orgamst and tty reqmre a bpy to do such, the severe intlammation of the optic asked. conductor of an amateur arches- fraternity would be considered nerve, amd permanent blindness · tra in Worcester, England. It is :immoral. Nevertheless, such a Ol 7111':• ,~ Q.-Mr. Wilson, has the Asso- interesting to note that his mu- thing as described above is car- e .lJ'.I..'lS., • • • resulted in many cases. ciated Student Body taken any sician father encouraged him to go ried on in a \considered\ atmo- Strict l,aws stand on the ''resent Meredith sit- 'd h ld f · d h f · t ll' Th b \ k outsJ. e t e wor o music, an sp ere o m e 1gence. e a ove (Continued fram Page 2) Brecht sal'd that the d·rugs had· uation, or do you anticipate ta - h t h tt t d t b t f 'l d d 'b d · t' · f ? t a c a emp e o, . u at e as . escn e examma JOn lS per .orm- except!' on ·of a- few \rabble rous• lost none of their potency and ing any action now· a solicitor's clerk before gaining ed each year at Jackson Univer- A.-Yes, I issued a statement public recognition, honorary de- sity for all Freshmen and Soph- ing\ students, there were no dem- that the same effects might result . last week 1'n regard to our posi- d h · 1 f K · 1 t f · 1 I · k onstrations or loud outbursts of now. He noted that \the U. S. · \ grees, an t e t1t e o mg 1 or emore g1r s. t 1s nown as a · tion on this matter. (He gave us his work in music. posture test. The administration adverse· opinions. has the strictest drug laws of any·· a C opy to read. One section was th' k th t 11 J k · 1 Thursday afternoon when a few country in the world, and that Pol·trai'ts of Fr1'ends m s a a ac son gir 8 th' · f t t' \ · a quotation from the injunctions MUST have excellent posture be- students attempted to take the IS lS so or own own pro ec wn. against Gov. Ross Barnett. An- Elgar's piece, as its title sug- cause they represent the school. American Flag down and replace \Forced study habits,\ he con- other part was a list of proposals gests, is a puzzle. The composer· However, when our posture is it with a Confederate flag, the tinued, \are not conducive to bet-· of ASB activities for the coming indicated that the variations were judged by other people it is not alertness and leadership of Old ter study, but retard progress .. year, mostly dances and queens portraits of relatives and friends, with us standing in the NUDE. Miss students immediately be- rather than advance it.\ to be crowned.) but only told a few chosen friends Further, how long does it take to came evident. Charles Henderson, Dean of Q.-This state1:1e,!lt do~sn't the names of the people involved. determine if we have good pos- The students of Ole Miss show- Student Affairs, said that not only FAST & DEPENDABLE SERVICE 0 NEW 0 Coin Operated WASHERS - and DRYERS - I AT p Vol. 92 • .lri O'Faola and critic, , i900. He c from the li Ireland and He is also · Irish A< all of . that tJ ucation has · ly by good In 1929 h lectured in lege. Folio ton he wen tured in se' mention student opnuon, ratwnal Througho1:1t Elgar's lifetime the ture in the NUDE? One minute? ed intelligent logic and reasoning is the distribution of these drugs student debate, or any leadership puzzle remained unsolved, but Two hours? If the answer is one in most of their actions. We are' a serious federal offense, b1:1t that on the part of the students. in after his death one of the friends minute--a doctor once said any- proud to be a part of this group. · they are \seriously deleterious to · connection with the present sttu- revealed the names to the public. --~-- ·-- ----- ~~':.:_':~::::__~...2::==============' ation. Could you give us any in- Another intriguing enigma, which \A Nest of his earl best novel tion. In it ! \excellent p vague evoc els were nc in recent formation about that? remains unsolved, concerns El- N I h t ga·r's statements that the music A.- o, ave no commen on contains a familiar tune which that at this time. makes itself felt, but is never ac- Q.-This statment is _about o_n~- tually stated. There is a pass- third devoted to upcommg actiVl- ibility that Elgar made the state- ties. Do you feel that the primary ment in order to send musical de- purpose of your student govep:~- tectives off on an endless search ment is to carry out such actlv1- for a nonexistent theme as a prac- ties? tical joke. In any case, the piece A.-No, actually this is just a is fine musically and warrants minor thing. The primary pur- performance regardless of ex- pose of the ASB is to represent traneous interesting aspects. student opinion to the adminis- Tickets wiH be available at the tration and the state, and to rep- door for those who have not ob- resent the university and the state tained a season membership. to the students. Q.-Well then isn't the ASB specifically designed to express student opinion on issues such as this Meredith problem? A.-No, we feel that this mat- ter is solely in the hands of state authorities, and that it is strictly a political question, and I think that's all I have to say. After this interview reporters talked .. to Mississippian Editor Miss Sidna Brewer. Q.-Miss Brewer, what has the Mississippian said about the pres- ent Meredith situation? A.-Have you seen the last few issues? It's all in there. Q.-Yes, we saw the issues, but we didn't see much editorial com- ment, advice, or criticism. A.-Well, did you read this morning's? Q.-Yes, there was an edit by you on the riot bringing shame to the university. But, have you editorialized before about Barn- ett's action or the integration topic? A.-No. Q.-Is there any censorship of the newspaper? A.-No, I can say anything I want to. (The head of the Jour- nalism school told us that pres- sure sometimes was \unsuccess- fully,\ brought to bear to keep the paper in line.) Q.-Why haven't the student leaders offered leadership to the students? A.-Well, we all discussed it and decided that it was best that we not say anything. for the finest m custom clothing and furnishings 14 E. 44th St. • New York 17, N.Y. Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN Idol Features This year, under the leadership of editor Julian Olf, the Idol, the campus literary magazine, is planning to institute many new features that have never before appeared. In the Fall Prom issue, there will be an article by a na- tionally renowned historian and author. In addition, there will ap- pear articles by the prizes win- ning authors on this campus. The Idol would like to enlarge its staff to insure the continued publication and maintenance of this high literary standard. If any person is interested in writ- ing for the Idol, he should con- tact Julian Olf at FR 4-4681 • The publication deadline for the next Idol is Monday, October 22, 1962. Union freshmen will get a chance to meet some young freshmen ladies from Russell Sage, when a mixer will be held on Saturday, October 20. The cost of the mixer is $1.90, which will include entertainment during and after dinner by a band. SHARE YOUR CHARM AND WIT No kidding •.. mom and dad think you're the greatest! Most everything involving you inter- ests them. Tell them what's hap- pening in person, by phone ... it's ttie best way. Why not call home long Distance tonight? Rates are lowest every evening after 6 and all day Sunday. New York Telephone · rfA~ Part of the natlo~~ide ~ Bell TelephoneS:ystem Pall Mall Presents- GIRL WATCHERS GUIDE BATON-TWIRLING HIGH-STEPPER The High-Stepper is an ideal choice for Campus Type #1 for two reasons. First, she is a fairly common spe- cies-and second, she is easy to identify. Just as the bird-watching beginner should concentrate on the Robin, Sparrow and Cardinal before moving on to more exotic species, the girl watching beginner should master the observation and identification of types such as the High-Stepper before progressing to rarer (and usu- any more difficult to identify) types. As in all fine arts, the mastery of fundamentals is the key to girl watching succ.ess. This mastery of fundamen- tals is just as important in the art of cigarette making. Taste Pall Mall and see what we mean! Pall Mall's natural mildness is so good to your taste! So smooth, so satisfYing, so downright smokeable! @A. T. Co. Proauttof~~5'~ II dJ'# ,, v~ is our miadle name away from ed himself .essays and known wox the Irish nell. He f lated \ThE anthology 1 Althougl: ed some fa biographer a critic, a: known inte ern Irelan( to write al lived there has been ~ Irish affair an active 1 Revolution. • . the Irish \ 1 less has b · pathetic in isamanv · tion who recreation Our g;U$l ars partie' Phi Beta This progi 1956 to e: , have leadiJ in campus O'Faolai three days nesday mo . day. In a• tion addre formal tall p.m. in Hs ulty and students\ tations to different fi ! to attend. eral classr wli.fcli -Will ' class in ad this class 1 \So You \'\ Story.\ A address a1 . will lectut ure\ on F1 · at 8:00 p.1 I Filn Tol Thu The Rul ed by Je~ · in the ser be shown shown at night in 1 Jean R controvere RuleE 1 sidered h: of the Ga disastrous cut his fil atable to since the' ing told' I:luring W destroyed Frencli fil tact, 200 ands of p · reconstru• one minu The pic party m . where thE one viole makes a comment! on the b1

1962 said ses do, g RIOT AT UNION Page 2 Vol. 92 - No. 5 Founded at Union College ln 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1962 POLICE STATE Page 2 PRICE 15 CENTS .Irish Critic To Lecture ·Homecoming Weekend Infraction In Rushing Uncovered Features Gridiron Clash Film Classic To Be Shown This Evening The IFC Rushing Rules En- forcement Committee reminds the Fraternities and Freshman Class that the rules prohibit con- tact in the houses of Fraternities and Freshmen after the football game tomorrow. The next contact period in the houses will be an• nounced in the Concordiensis. Folk Singer Featured At LAWRENCE OLDER and ballads Monday, October 22, in Old Chapel, starting at 7:30. By Robert· Hoffman Homecoming game this Satarday will be the center of activity for undergradu- ates and alumni alike as Un- ion's old grads return for the traditional clash between the Garn.et and the Engineers of R.P.I. Alumni return to campus once again. Festivities for the alumni will begin Friday evening with a re- ception at the home of Professor Ketz to honor all former Union varsity basketball players. Fifty years ago the Union Alumni Monthly reported on basketball as follows: \Of twelve games played this year, Union lost the first and won the other eleven.\ Union College was ranged at vari- ous spots from first to fourth in the nation. One reporter said \The Union five is fit to meet any team in the East.\ The following year Union won the Northeastern Bas- ketball conference championship and the comment \Union no doubt could have made herself felt in any basketball league.\ Over the years Union has had many out- standing basketball teams. It is as a tribute to them that the Alumni Council has extended this invitation to all living varsity players to meet at the Ketz resi- dence. All alumni and guests are Geologist Collegians Addresses Still Uphold Signta Xi Isolationism invited to attend. , Buffet Lunch. On Saturday morning the alum- ni will be welcome to visit classes, and at 12:00 noon a buffet lunch for all alumni and guests will be prepared at Hale House. The Dr. Jack Hough opened this year's series of lectures, sponsor- ed by the Union College chapter of Sigma Xi, with his talk \The Prehistoric Great Lakes of North America\ on October 11. He discussed, in general, the effects of glacial flows on the present physical characteristics of the Great Lakes. One of the more interesting points he mentioned was that all previous theories about the date of the last glacial flow were discarded recently, when the carbon-14 method of dating came into use. Prior to that period, geologists thought that the flow had occured within the last 27,000 years. Now they believe it to be half that time. Hough received his bachelor's, master's, and doctor's degrees at the University of Chicago. His work for his Ph.D. was concerned with the bottom sedimentsof Lake Michigan and Cape Cod. He worked for the Navy as an ocean- ographer and submarine geologist on the antartic expedition of 1946 and 1947. After that he served with the conservation department on food control and reservoir sedimenta- tion. He joined the staff of the University of Illinois in 1947 and is presently a professor of geo- logy there. The audience, about one hundred in number, consisted of students, professors, and the general public. During the talk, which was giv- en in the Physics lecture room, Hough presented a number of his original slides, illustrating the sedimentation of the Great Lakes. Hough is slated to give twenty- one such lectures between October 1, and October 26. He will talk next at Hamilton. Organ Recital To Feature French Music Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, profes- sor emeritus of music at Union College, will present his first or- gan recital of the season at Union College Memorial Chapel 4 p.m. Sunday. A recent survey of college cur- R th k 11 h\ h t 11 30 riculums has concluded that iso- a s e er, w lC opens a : 1 t . . . t tomorrow morning, should be the a tomsm remams a s ronger · ht f d · d force in American education than stg 0 many gran reuruons an in United States foreign policy. will surely echo with the songs of Union men of years gone by until The three-year study of the col- game time. leges' teaching of an understand- Celebrations after the game will ing of international affairs charg- take place at the fraternities ed that \higher education in the where each group will hold its United States is more provincial own homecoming for its alumni than in any comparable country.\ from about four in the afternoon. The study which was financed These homecoming parties will be b¥ the Carnegie Corporation of open to alumni, students, and New York, found that American guests until six in the evening. history was generally taught Mter six p.m. the fraternity \from an extremely parochial houses are closed to all but mem- point of view, as if the United bers, alumni, and guests. States alone had inhabited the It doesn't take a prophet to pre- planet from the time of indepen- diet that Saturday's battle for the dence until its entry into the First Dutchman's Shoes Trophy will be World War.\ the highlight of the season for both Union and R. P. I. football Course Lacking teams. Both teams, winless this season, Furthermore, the report stated figure this is their best chance to that a mixture of inadequate win this year. It's ~ \must\ courses and student apathy were game, according to R.P.I. Coach responsible fot' lettW.g seniors Ed Hoffman and Union Coach Joe graduate from college with little Maras. more knowledge about foreign af- fairs than they had as freshmen. The 76-year-old grid series is the oldest for both schools and Courses in economics, political past games have been so hard science and government were of- fought and some of them so close ten found lacking in the treatment that the two schools don't even of the world scene. The report agree on the series standing. declared that \almost nobody takes geography, even in the relative- Dutchmen on Top ly few places where it is offered.\ Union, for instance, claims this The study called for a complete is the 62nd game in the series and reorganization of the introductory that the Dutchmen have won 43, courses in American history and lost 14, and tied four. R.P.I. rec- the social sciences in most col- ords show this to be the 61st leges and universities. Dr. Percy game. The series, it argues, stands W. Bidwell, former director of at 41 wins for Union, 15 wins for studies of the Council on Foreign R.P.I. and four ties. Relations and the man who con- The differences creep in over a ducted the research for the re- disputed game in 1888 and over a port, urged all college presidents second game in 1901. The Engi- to assign a senior professor or a neers' records show a 5-4 score- senior member of the administra- in R.P.I.'s favor-for the 1888 tion to the coordination of currie- game. Union's show a 4-0 score ular and extra-eurricular activi- in its favor. It has been tradi- ties relating to foreign affairs. tional at Union to claim that R.P.I.'s score came after the whis- Men Top Women tie had blown and that game of- Dr. Bidwell's findings were sup- ficials were bribed into counting ported by tests given as part of it. the study to 2,000 seniors in 36 In 1901 Union records indicate colleges and universities. These that two games wel'e played and tests showed that the students that Union won both of them by averaged only 55 per cent of cor- scores of 18-0 and 17-0 R.P.I. ac- rect answers in foreign affairs. cepts responsibility for only one Men were found better inform- game-and one loss-that season. ed than women. Teachers colleges The Dutchman's Shoes Trophy produced the lowest percentage of is an innovat~on in the series, be- co rrect answers. ing first introduced in 1949 in an attempt to lessen the vandalism to both campuses by substituting A familiar figure in the Capital District, Tidmarsh is beginning his thirty-sixth season of Sunday Older, born and raised in the afternoon organ recitals at the Adh·ondack Mountains, is a de- college. scendent of the original settlers Dr. Tidma1'sh was a member of of this area. Since his youth, he the Union College faculty and has had a great interest in folk. head of the department of music music and now possesses a rep- from 1925 until his retirement in The Concordiensis is proud to announce th!l engagement of its Managing Editor, Michael J. Gordon to Miss Judith Ann Davis on October 6, 1962. Miss Davis is a Senior at Boston University and is majoring in education. an appropriate symbol to which both schools could aspire. Union holds a 10-3 edge in the Dutchman's Shoes Trophy series but neither this lopsided ma1•gin nor that of the entire series is in- dicative of the many close con- tests between the schools. ertoire of hundreds of songs which 1956. (Continued on Page 6) (Continued on Page 4)

2 Published l\ridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Ad\·ert ising- Repr:esentative: National Advertising Service, Inc .. Colloge Publishers Hept·esentat.ive. 420 Madison Ave .. :-1. Y. C. Editorial ·Office, Washburn Hall, l:nion Colleg~. Publicallon Of!'lce, Schenectady Printing Company, 502 Ilroarlway. Entered in the Sche~ n<'ctady Post Offke as SPcond Class ~!ail :\latter. Subscription 15c a l~opy; $3 a ye-ar deliverPd anywhere m tt1e CnitE><.l Stutes. SE:-o;IOR HOARD ALFHED SO:.\l:.\IF.I1 '63 ....... DI 6-9959 ... Bdi tor-in-Cluef .... Bu8mess ~\'tanager . .J.lanag:Hib Editor RpoFI'::J l~ditor News Editor ... FL·ature g(.)itor Advisor STEVE:-< FACTUH 'G3 .............. EX 3-n32. l.\IICliAEL J. GU!tl>U:--: 'G3 ........ l\lt 2-1447 lJ.\.\'E 'llll'HS'J'U); 'tiJ. . VI 6-98~9 sDin:--: sono '64 PAVIP HEHI·::'>iSO:>: '64 WILLIAM T. WINNE '34.. Misplaced Nostalgia Homecoming weekend is an important one to the col- lege as well as the alumni. Though we welcome all the Union graduates who will be on campus this weekend, we wonder if they realize what they owe Union in exchange for the four good years they've come back to remember. Undoubtedly the most important event to the alumni this weekend will be the football game against R.P.I. Un- fortunately, this preoccupation with merely the \extra- curricular\ activities of the school is carried by some throughout the year to the detriment of our primary goal, education. Should the team lose on the ball field, the typi- cal remark will be \the school's just not as good as it was when I was here.\ Let us inform you of somethi11g. The school is a lot better than when you were here, unless of course you frequented Union during the early reign of N ott, and we doubt many of you did. Alumni lose sight of the fact (as do many \students\) that the college is an institution of higher education, not a training ground for future Packer stars. In this respect there is no comparison between \then\ and \now.\ It is certain that many will take exception to this accusation, but the fact remains that we long needed a library and only incidentally a field house. Yet the first to be built, with generous alumni funds, was the field house, while the library had to await the generosity of one man, who char- acteristically was not. an alumnus. This is indeed a poor commentary on a \progressive\ school. We are not especially critical of the few alumni who have sincerely devoted both time and money to their alma mater. Instead, we are indignant with the vast majority of alumni, who after graduating refuse to acknowledge their debt to Union, and in effect demand still more in the form of a winning football team. We on the Concordy are not yet alumni and can easily criticize it is true, but we can also objectively examine the products of Union's instruction. We urge the present stu- dent body not to fall into the snares of \alumniism where the vicarious thrill experienced when the alma mater wins a football game, (a reliving of either a real or imag- ined past), eclipses Union's basis for existence, the dis- semination of enlightenment. Too Much Is Too Little Union's public image of a balanced college has long lingered nebulously out of reach of the college community. Balance is an attribute of a university with its diversified schools, but can it be a reality at a small college? Surely \\'ith unlimited funds to work with, such a con- dition could exist. However, never has Union had an abun- dance of wealth even remotely comparable to the flourish- ing Ivy League universities. As a result, our leaders have to spread our resources over the gamut of \collegiate\ pur- suits, spreading them thinly at that! Wouldn't it serve our purposes better if we recognized our specific potential strengths and worked on them more vigorously, weeding out undesirable elements of the college, leaving little doubt as to what we are aiming for? Shouldn't classes average less than twenty students per section at any cost? Should fraternities divide us into isolated seg- ments defeating the assets of a small communicating com- munity? Shouldn't there be a more concerted effort on the part of the faculty and students to establish a more closely knit soricty? These questions seem vague and dreamy. but their solutions could be the distinguishing characlerislics ·of a small college. We must create an image contrary to the spreading balanced acres of university life. A more specific flaw at Union is our committal to be- ing both an engineering and liberal arts college, while hav- ing limited funds. Williams College has a larger budget than we do, using everything for the maintenance of a liberal arts school par excellence. Yet we attempt to com- pete, sharing our inferior budget between two not neces- sarily complimentary curriculums, doing the best with what we have, but at an initial disadvantage. Which is more desirable, excellence or balance? Riot on Union Campus To The Editor of Concordiensis: Mrs. Carolyn Wright of the Onondaga Historical Association in Syracuse sends me clippings from old newspapers in regard to Union College. I enclose a copy of one of them, which shows-either that town- gown relationships in this city were pretty lively in 1848, or that a New York Tribune correspond- Pnt was rather imaginative. Things have quieted down in 114 years. Sincerely yours, Harold A. Larrabee, Professor of Philosophy Emeritus Shameful Riot at Schenectady (Correspondence of the Tribune) Schenectady, February 24, 1848 Mr. Editor: · I have barely time to inform yuu, before the departure of the mai 1, of a disgraceful riot of which this citv was the scene last night. · It appears that a few students, thro1:1gh some mischievous de- sign, between the hours of 9 and 10, commenced ringing the bell at West College, situated in the city. The citizens, mistaking this for an alarm of fi.re, flocked in great numbers, accompanied by several of the Engine Companies, to the College ground. The students, as if determined to excite them to violence, set up a shout of ridicule and defiance from their windows, whereupon the fii'emen anrl a few of the cit- izens, exasperated at this, entered the College yard, armed with bricks and other missiles which they had procured. The alarm at this time becom- !ng. general, the students poured m 111 great numbers from North and South Colleges, situated upon Ticket Dept.: the hiH. Those in the building seeing themselves reinforced by their fellow students, descended from their rooms, carrying with them arms of every descriptions (sic). Then, as if by common con- sent, the citizens, .firemen, and students entered into a general contest, most disgraceful to 0ur city. Faculty To Rescue Bricks and billets of wood were hurled in every direction, inter- mingled ·by the occasional dis- charge of firearms. At this stage of the proceedings, Dr. Nott, ac- companied by most of the Faculty, arrived upon the ground. Many and s~renuous were his and their exe1'tions to quell the riot, which they finally succeeded in doing by the aid of the City au- thorities. The students, though inferior in numbers, were the last to lea,,e the ground. This is a short and, in many respects, imperfect description of the outrage. Truly yours, A CITIZEN P.S. Since writing the above, I have been informed that none of the students were dangerously wounded. Tutor Vedder received a severe contusion in the head, supposed to have been inflicted by a sling-shot. He was taken this morning to his residence in Washington Co. Several of the firemen were also wounded, but it is believed none dangerously so. The ring-leaders of this outrage have been arrested, and held to bail in the sum of $1,000, being unable to obtain which, they were thrown into prison. (The above is sent to us anonymously, and we hope to hear it is either wholly false or grossly exaggerated.-Ed.) 'Police State'' By J. C. Clemens Complaining about traffic tickets is generally about a,; rewarding as hollering at a _co'::'. ;\to matter how expert one 1s m dramatizing his plight before his peers, the listener always s~ems to stand there with a complaisant smirk on his face, mutely com- menting on your guilt. Until you are unjustly ticketed by a state trooper yourself, you can have no sympathy for another's claims of innocence. Two weeks ago, I was return- ing my car to my home as per Mr. Schmidt's automotive edict of financial aiel recipients. It was a Thursday afternoon on the Thruway and the road was de- serted. Along one particular stretch the joints are so poorly match- ed that one gets the feeling he is driving on logs at s i x ty-five miles an hour. I switched over to the fast lane which I found to be consider- ably and continued to cruise along in that lane for ten or fifteen miles. Along one }Xlrtic- Uiarly long straightaway, I glanced into my rear view mirror and noticed a mere speck zoom- ing out of the horizon coming towards me. Anticipating the minions of the law, I braked down to within the legal limit (which is almost impossible to maintain on as dreary and mo- notonous a road as the Thruway) and pulled over into the slow lane so that this land-based guided missile might pass me without incident. l\lissi Dominici A few minutes passed, and I noticed that the patrol car had not passed me despite his pre- vious rate of speed. I looked over my shoulder and saw him hover- ing behind me in the fast lane. He remained there for a short time and then pulled alongside. I looked into the patrol car and saw this creature who looked vaguely like Jonathan Winters playing the part of Elwood Sug- gms, the country bumpkin, re- plete with one of those idiotic Sergeant !'reston sombreros atop his cranium. The other trooper kept his eyes on the road as he was the driver. This one was just the opposite from Elwood. He was cleaned eut, handsome in a Nazi-youth-group kind of way, and equipped with a chin which looked like it had been carved out of diamond. Elwood waved me over. What was the gag? What did I ,do? My only hope was that I m1ght be on \Candid Camera.\ I pulled over. Elwood dismounted first and wadd!Pd to the front of my car as if he were expecting me to attempt to escape. Then the other guy got out. He was the com- plete state trooper: about nine feet tall, jackboots so big I could skindive in them, steel blue eyes . beneath amber sunglasses, a gnm mouth, and a pad under his arm which looked like he was taking orders for Christmas tur- k_eys. One of the rules of traffic ticket gamesmanship which one lem•ns at an early age is to get out of your car and go to them. I. found this quite impossible .smce the length of stride that this goon took was uncanny; I would have felt uncomfortable to run. He requested my license and registration and then proceeded with the traditional cakewalk :;tround. the ~ar, checking stickers, mspectmg license plates, looking suspiciously underneath the car for God knows what, and gener- ally getting the air. In his ab- s~nce, Elwood _decided to pass the time of day With me in a pattern which was to continue through- out the arrest. While the intel- ligent trooper was writing, El- ;vood would make cracks. But I JUmp the gun; the writing hadn't yet begun. Then the granite-faced one took out his pad and balanced it on his rear fender while ex- tracting his pencil. Nonchalantly he looked at me and in the best tradition of Actor's Studio asked ''Jon . . . do you know how t~ read ? \ underplaying it for all he was worth. I remarked that reading was one of my few tal- ent.s, tryi!Jg my. b~st to be polite wh1le g1vmg a nd1eulous question somewhat of a thougl1tful answer. All of a sudden I received an un- canny insight. These two clowns were, really running the show. I hadn t a prayer in hell of talking th~m out ?f whatever they were gomg to ticket me for. I had the fee)ing of complete helplessness which one only encounters when faced with senseless and unrea- so_ning authority. I realized that with all the laws stashed in their endless memories, they could al- ways find one that I violated. Then he told me that he was going to give me a summons for failure to ke.ep to the right. I 1 bought . to mrself that it was rather silly to keep to the right on a rlE>sc>rted highway; I had moved over when he was still a quarter of a mile away· and he was moving along smartly. I was tempted to ai'gue, but then I realized ~hat such arguments were futile. These men were machines; I could turn blue but I'd still drive away with a ticket. Granite-face began writing and Elwood took up the attack: \You got seat belts on that thing, Kid?\ \Yes.\ (Continued on Page 4) Friday, October 19, 19 , Och Sean O'Faolain and The Irish Re'Volution Alba The com Chapel last the opening By l\Iartin Jay The proposition that great lit- erature most often emanates from a dynamic and turbulent social environment has received widespread critical attention in recent years. One proponent of this ·concept is Prof. John Brad- bury whose forthcoming study, Renaissance of the Soutlt, pro- poses that southern social' strife has stimulated the southern liter- ary blossoming of recent decades exemplified in the work of Faulk- ner and Williams. Another promi- nent example of this hypothesis is demonstrated, it is often con- tested, in the Irish literary ex- plosion resulting from the social un~ertainty of the years during whiCh Ireland fought for its in- dependence. Union will be visited next week by an Irish man of lette1·s who superbly demonstrates this concept, Sean O'Faolain this year's Phi Beta Kappa lecturer. O'Faolain joined the Republican army in his twenty-second year dur_ing the early 1920's. He saw actlve combat in guerrilla war- f~~e and i~ 1923 rose to the po- Sltwn of d1rector of pub 1 icity and p~opaganda for the I.R.A. As Wlth the works of Sean O'Casey and James Joyce, to mention tw:.. o~h;r sa.li~nt examples, O'Faol am s Writmg reflects a cons;d- era~le portion of his military ~x­ penences. As John Kelleher in the sponsored j 1957 ed·ition of the tady Museu maintains, he is \a with an OJ romantic ami a cold-eyed the Albany always Inqutring after facts direction a causes.\ In his role as glance at t revolutionary, O'Faolain in this YE opportunity L<i give gre::~:ter promise of stance to his romanticism ent with tl to find a greater need for his real'-; ferings, al istic bent. His abi'lity to reconcih,: and sensiti these two somewhat which is n tendencies may he seen in success of his endeavors in almost: Un all faeets of the Iiteral'y medium. The cone As essayist, p aywright, noveli evenly with critic, and biographer, 0' -~·-···~ the Dresd has received consistent acclaim were some from his pee1·s in the world of semble pro letters. Rapid and somewhat partly attr sketchy readings in the two music stan lections by this remarkable not locate1 in our library, :'lrewman's Way concert. ] ( 1952) and An II' ish Journey preparatior ( 1940), have provided this col- semble bee umnist with a tantalizing ficulties mi of the fluid technique and The solo p style of next week's convocation speaker. One immediately feels: that O'Faolain is writing ' a subject of which he has an in- timate and thorough knowledge.! The droll humor and subtle irony:· of the man shine through, even in' a cursory reading. Kelleher mentions that one of his favorite epigrams is from' the pen of Cardinal Newman-\ \It is the whole man that move~.\· Sean O'Faolain is such a man. Cinem The dist tic of Bel entry at tl from its ~ the existe: . The fo!lowing topics will be discussed by the Student Council at Its meetmg on Tuesday, October 23 at 7:15 p.m. in Hale House Lounge. home link~ timonious · ing landow · vaultings. by Marcel Dolce Vita to Sicily a existence ' 1. .Repo,rt and discussion on fund raising and its pertinence to the Individual student. 2. Report on t~e program for Fall Weekend and the assign- ment of date for Wmter Weekend. . 3. ~epor! .concerning the new calendar and the problems raised (msufficient lunch hours, etc.) 4. Evaluation of student-faculty conference on the previous Sunday. Unfortm has preced is advised a good fi pure and 1 doctor w< tonio agre ._..,.======~=~~----------------.~~ the mirror I with his ii 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N. Y. SHOW TIME 7:00 ~ 9:00 NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue bell-Antonio an Italian Drama with Marcello Mastroianni D & J AUTO SERVICE 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6-9644 RlCCITELLO'S Erie Boulevard at Jay Street -}~- Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks-Chops SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS 8 8 VV Lan~~ 1723 Van Vranken Avenue STUDENT RATES 35c per game up till6 PaM. on Weekda.ys 45c per game after 6 P.M. and Weekends BAR ON PREMISES 8 FREE SHOES (Save 25c) to College Students 8' But the rocks. Af wife Barb Cardinale, fully aloo is still lir guilt cann Wh asks a wo one has thinks tha . there is tr of which . master. But the Antonio. meaningle < e Mil Me Fr

AlbanySymphonyConcert Concert Ense~nble Faces Di1n Future By Brian Fennelly The convocation a_t Memorial unpolished, but the :performance Chapel last Friday night marked was marked with a spirit one the opening of the concert series. does not ordinarily encounter in sponsored jointly by the Schenec- musicians who are forced to tady Museum and Union College squint to, read their music. with an orchestral program by · Mozart's 40th Symphony faired the Albany Symphony under the much better than the Vivaldi. Be- direction of Edgar Curtis. A ginning in a rather pedestrian pu1.nt<.:<:tJ:.t glance at the concerts scheduled manner, the orchestra glowed in in this year's series shows a the slow movement and really promise of high quality consist- came alive in the .finale. The ent with that of last year's of- minuet seemed a bit heavy, per- ferings, along with a variety haps a deliberate move by Curtis and . sensitivity in programming to emphasize the character of which is noteworthy. the movement and to provide an even greater contrast with the Uneven Opening fiery concluding movement. The concert opened rather un- After intermission, the strings 1 evenly with Vivaldi's Concerto for assembled in special groups for au'\\\\' the Dresden Orchestra. There an immaculate rendering of were some intonation and en- Ralph Vaugh Williams' Fantasia semble problems, which could be on a Theme by Thomas Tallis. partly attributed to the lack of Here there was no question of music stand lights, which were· -ability-sumptuous sound filled not located until later in the the chapel as the solos and or- concert. Had the proper stage chestra played in delicate hal- preparation due any guest en- ance. The subtle aspects of the semble been provided, the~e dif- score were captured perfectly and ~-···\'v\' ficulties might have been averted. revealed lovingly and precisely. · The solo passages were at times (Continued on Page 6) 1 moves.\ man. House evious By L~slie' Davis Cinema Review: In recent years, the Union sense of satisfaction .. College Concert Ensemble, largely During the fall term of the bell--Antonio · through the efforts of Professor present academic year, Professor Edgar Curtis, Chairman of the Curtis is on sabbatical leave. Music Department, has entered Substituting ·as director of the , the ranks of the major extra- Ensemble is a· Union alumnus, The distinguishing characteris- unlike other men who ignore the cl!rricular activities o~ c~pus. Brian Fenne1ty. The schedule for tic of Bell'Antonio, this week's. sex, which he cannot enjoy with Smc~ 1959, membership m the the coming year again includes entry at the S~otia Art Theate!, the woman he loves. The mar- musical group has been from visits to area high schools and from its genenc counterparts 1s riage is annulled by the Church, thirt;y to . thirty-!3-ve st_udents to several of the Eastern women's the existence of the traditional which claims that the material playmg a _wide vanety .of ms~ru- colleges mentioned above. In ad- home links. These include sane- act is as important as the spirit- ments. Th1s has made It poss1ble dition, a trip to New York City timonious family priests, grasp- ual act. However, this guilt is for the Ensemble .to perf?rm on· is planned where the group will ing landowners, and quadripartite o 11 Iy in the eyes of the village, a number of ?ccasi?ns durmg_ ~he perform for two city high schools. vaultings. Thus, Antonio, played which is the moral viewpoint of year, often di~play!ng the ab1~1ty Despite the encouraging events by Marcello Mastroianni, of La the film. to handle. a diversified repetmre .. of recent semesters and the h It's offermgs have ranged from growing attractiveness of the Dolce Vita vintage, returns orne The confessions me necessarily such classical pieces as Brahms 1 concert schedule, the Ensemble to Sicily after leading a dissolute painful. It is only Barbara who \Academic Festival\ to the works has found itself in much difficulty existence in Rome. feels that her humiliation is suf- of the modern concert oai'J.d com- at the outset this term. Unlike in Unfortunately, his reputation ficient. Contrasting is Antonio posers Piston and Holst.. · past years where a core of re- has preceded his homecoming. He who maintains his good looks h · h turning upperclassmen existed d . d b h' f th t despite the storm outs!\ de, and T e rapid growth of t e. En- is a VJSe y IS a er o marry t th d. 'd semble may be traced ba~k · to around which a group could be a good figure, a beautiful girl ge s e owncast ma1 pregnant. the arrival of Dr. Curtis at. Union built, the Ensemble has found pure and clean, or just what the His parents are more concerned itself with fewer than ten re- dactor would recommend. An- with saving face i:rt the village, CMoll~geAint th 1956 t. as pthrofesslor .of turning players. Hence, the need · ft l 1 k · rather than delt\cacy and an- uslc. e Ime, e on Y m- f tomo agrees a er a ong oo m t t 1 · t d f or new members is great. Rec- . h · t nounce the 1'ntended event from s rumen a g1·oup consis e o d --Ill·~ the mi:l;ror, companng er p1c ure b t t 1 1 d or s indieate that the musical . h h' . the balcony. Evei\''one l·s gen- a ou . en p ayers even Y spt•ea t I t f h w1t 1s 1mage. ·\ - th h t th b d d a en o t e present freshman U inely happy. Everyone, that t\s roug ou e rasses an woo - I . f 8 8 But the marriage goes on the 'nds B · tu f h d k c ass 1s ar superior to that of exc ept the g1\r•l next door who has WI • Y VIr e 0 ar wor . rocl 's. After twelve months, his d fide p f s c t\ any entermg class at Union in ~ a high passion for the hero. She an con nee, ro e sor ur IS wife Barbara, played by Claudia . h . d molded this tiny group into an many a year. Cardinale, who is somewhat skill- IS s own m be with him, but organization which could tackle However, the response of the fully aloof from the goings on, naturally not making love, in a the major pieces written and ar- freshmen so far has been below is still untouched. At first, the disconnected sequence in the be- ranged fot concert band. The re- par. Because of this failure to guilt cannot be positively associ- ginning of the film. sult was a concert .schedule which respond adequately, the Concert When the anguished wife There is a strong irony in all include<:! area high schools and Ensemble may be unable to meet asks a woman servant about how the proceedings ,although the several Eastern women's colleges, its schedule commitments. It is one l:tas children, the viewer English dubbing detracts from notably Russell Sage, Skidmore, rapidly becoming evident that thinks that she is frigid. Besides, this sense by its forthrightness. Bennington, Green Mountain and without sufficient freshmen sup- there is the question of technique, There is also a travelogue, en- Simmons (Boston). Despite the port a severe setback will be sui- of which Antonio is apparently a titled \The Hills of Assisi,\ fact that the Ensemble lacked fered by the growing musical master. which conducts a tour of the tor- what may be . termed \musical gi•oup. It is hoped that the But the guilt is finalized with tuous, but well populated streets, refinement,\ it found itself class of '66 will be able to both F 1 · d h · t meet the burden of studies and Antonio. Life does not become in the town where Saint rancis I warm Y rece1ve w erever It wen . h . · I t h\ · h · was box·n and d1'ed. This gave the members a great ~ ow Its spirit by participating meanmg ess · o 1m, smce e 1s m the Ensemble. Jay Jewelry Co. 3 15 STATE STREET 2)iamonds .. VAN CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street RECORDS MUSIC Purchased in Belgium and Imported JAZZ for Your Savings. Eliminate Importer and Wholesaler. MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn I Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. the Arnold Fisher '50 __ I POPS CLASSICS Student Discounts Upper Union Street-Presents JACK McDUFF Organist with Guitar: and Saxaphone accornpanyment F~i. & Sat. Nights 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. I -lalso- Sunday Night 8 P.M. to 2 A.M. GEORGE MONTERO JAZZ TRIO Nightly :9 P.M. to 3 A.M. 3 Neutral Nations: Atomic WeaponQuandry The following article is written on the question \Do you wish to by Nicholas Peyrot, a H • .E:.L.P. have atomic arms available to student from Switzerland. In it, vou in case of a world war?\ he gives his prediction of the Never before had the newspapers future of Switzerland's neutrality. and people themselves been so aroused by O'Tle issue. By Nicolas Peyrot Neutral countries are supposed to be very tranquil and to have no problems. This is wrong and their governments will be the first to agree with me. Rapidly the two factions took positions and began their cam- paigns. It seems to me preferable to outline the arguments against the previously mentioned .propo- sition before discussing the case in favor of iL The churches, the Wl:t~t a.{e the European .. neutral facu_Jty, _and the commun!st party c~untrws . Sw~den, Austna, Bel- ( wh1ch 1s weak and relatively un- glllm! and Sw1tzerland .. The l~st I important) waged a ,·ery strong one mterests me especmlly lor rampaign against the proposition, I know 1t well. They argued in a way which Switzerland gained its status made everybodv think. of neutrality in 1815 as a result Switzerland, the \cradle\ of the of the T1•eaty of Vienna which Red Cross, a peaceful organiza- was held after the definitive de- tion. must not now repudiate its feat of Napoleon at Waterloo. first state a11d its tradition of All of Europe had to be organized pea<'e. Furtlwrmore the Swiss and Switzerland received on this I people. ha. \'e an example to give Dccasion its borderlines which re- to the world; \Who are they to main unchanged to this day. blame any other nation for arm- The great powers left Switzer-, ing! if their countt·y, the most land alone during the last two typiCally neutral, , accepted to world wars because of their own follow the way of mtens1ve arm- interests a~d because the \Con-: ament ?\ federation Helvetique\ had a rei- I Then, they asked, what will atively strong army. At 2 ?e th~ part ~f the Sw!ss Army years of age, Swiss soldiers hav• 1n an mternatwnal confl1ct, _where a four month period of military great power.s themselves Will not service, then three weeks a year 0 ontrol the1r armaments. (you until the age of forty years and kno':\· t,~1e story of the. \Zanber- finally they have to be ready for llehrwg by Goethe wh1ch .shows an eventual mobilization until us the dangers for humaity to sixty. be overpassed by their own in- Yentions. \Science without con- science is nothing but ruin of Fear Atomic War For some years, everybody has' Pountry, will never play an im- been fearing a new war, quite the sound.\) Switzerland, a neu- different and which can destroy tral country, will never play an humanity; an atomic war. important role in a conflict, so we Great powers have to move must ston. to look at ourselves with progress, for they cannot (Contmu~d on Page 4) afford to let some foe surpass them (everybody knows that only equilibrium of strength can pre- ONE DAY SERVICE vent war); neutral countries are not in the same predicament and they would not play an import- ant role in a world conflict. It seems nevertheless unreasonable for them to stay behind their neighbors and not to maintain an advanced armament. Swedish people called to vote on the problem \to acquire CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY nuclear arms or not\ answered 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. that, as a neutral country, they Opp. Union College refused to take such a respon- sibility. Several months later, Phone EX 3-5472 Swiss people were asked to vote ~~ RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ- CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices AP-EX MUSIC KORNER . State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE - FR 4-5294 Two Doors From Mohawk National Bank COMPARE OUR PRICES CHINO SHIRTS 20c PANTS 39c WASH SUITS -------98c SPORT JKTS. --49c PANTS __ .;. ___ 49c Plain Sweaters 39c · Sibs. LAUNDRY $1.20-------lSc per Ibm * Shirts Not Included in Laundry Weig'l'1t

4 Friday, October 19, 1962 Police • • • Q dr · proposition which can be very . uan . y • • •. useful .. \ In view of the fact that many \Nobody fo:rgot,\ as they went WRUC Features Booters Win 1-0, 2-0 Play Colgate Today~. (Continued from Page 2) Union College alumni will be (Continued from Page 3) on, \that Hitler didn't attack reading this week's issue of Con- as he1·oes who can eventually save. Switzerland because he knew it· \Well the way you drive you cordy, WRUC w<mld like to honor the world. The time is gone when. was difficult to defeat Swiss· better have em!\ those announcers who the station Swiss mercenaries were famous soldiers and to cross the countTy. Elwood continued prodding feels ar·e the most accomplished all over Europe. to reach France; for this t•eason long after I had become numb. in radio broadcasting. Our newest Then they come to their fav- · he preferred Belgium, a much I felt transported to a logic-less full time announcer is Stuyvesant orite point of view: \let us give weaker resistance (plans found nightmare which made truth out Van Curler, one of the more eel- up the army, use the capital after the war show that Hitler of Kafka. Elwood kept butting ebrated D. J .s in the annals of needed for it in a more intelligent, thought he would need three into my serenity from time to WRUC. S.V.C. can be heard daily way and let the other ones play weeks and very stl'ong armed time with more of his snappy at 6. the war; they wH! be always forces to invade Switzerland, repartee. GranHe-face kept writ- In a recent survey conducted by numerable enough.\ The occasion· when some few days were enough ing_ ~ndlessly. Th~ cars kept WRUC's chief announcer, Bob of this vote was an ideal first to defeat Belgium.\ \The army whH\rmg by. I hadn t a chance to Gillespie, Dick J. was rated as step to the disparition of any saved Switzerland three times in venture down to court to defend the station's best radio announcer. armed strength. ' less than a century and you are myself . but w~uld be f~n·ced to I Dick also can be heard five days Let us speak now for the other not convinced of its utility; come plead srlent gmlt by mall. a week at 11 : 30 A.M. Among faction; for indignation suffocated on, look at the problem again, As they returned to their car,, WRUC's other leading an- them when hearing such \incon- you foolish fellows.\ I wondered who had been cheap 1 nouncers are Bob Gillespie ( 4 :00), sis tent\ fellows. Government and \Finally atomic bombs and su- enough to deprive them of arm- I Johnny Pongo (fi:OO) and Mal army then organized the resist- · perior armament are not incom- bands. Potter. ance for the above arguments as patible with neutrality, since they MAMA BIANCHI'S Restaurant 1135 Barrett Street Open Till 1 :00 A.M. on Weekdays and 3:00 A.M. on Friday and Saturday Nights - Free Parking - BRING YOUR DATES fol·lows: will be used only in a defensive \Switzerland possesses a system way. \Thus we will keep our of armed neutrality; that is, it precious impartial position in the will never attack a country, but world, but leave us the possibi:lity it will always be ready to defend to de:liend ourselves victoriously . its territory until its last drop' in .an . international conflict . . . of blood. Thus, the army is neces- It IS time now fo:r you to formu- sary and it must be modern, for late your opinion about this prob- what would be the use of a badly- lem which has divided Switzer- equipped soldier? We cannot let land for a month. our citizens go to a collective The proposition has. been ac- suicide in the ease of a war.: cepted by about sixty-five per Neutral or not, we wiU defend cent of the voters (don't forget our country always and in spite that women cannote vote in of everything. If a conflict oc- Switzerland: American women curs, we need to get atomic bombs don't marry Swiss husbands!) in a defensive way only. Swiss The countl·y has twenty-four people, don't let yourselves be states and twenty of them ac- ~~~~=~~==~==~===~~====~~==~c:!:h~a~in::e~d~u:.!:p~b~y~r~ef~u~s~in:.!g~s~u~c~h~a cepted the project, whereas the - four .Swiss-French states re- jected it (it is interesting to notice they are the four same which accepted last year to let women vote). . ., . •'• / Brian Barefoot (left) and Rolf Kasper have been outstanding per- ~ formers for the Garnet hooters this season. Goalie Barefoot has two I shutouts and ~ver fifty haves to his credit, while Kasper's offensive 1 play has provided a constant threat to the opposition. ' Following Wednesday's victory over Rochester 2·0 the Union College soccer team found itself undefeated on its 'hom~ field. The · preceding Sa~urday, they were victorious over Hobart by a 1-0 score. ! The consecutive shutouts mark the first time for the feat in quite a 1 few years. 1 Last Saturday, the Garnet0•~-----~------ booters completely checked the . Hobart offense and pounded .their a perem:;tllY strong Rochester way to the 1-0 victory. The scol'e t~am. pmon ha~ not defeated_ the might lead one to believe that the 1: ellow]ackets smce C~rl Wrtzel : game was close, but such was becan:e coach and the v~ctory was ' not the case. The Dutchmen so espe,crally sweet to hrm as he (Continued from Page 1) dominated play that Hoba 1 ·t had ongmally came from Rochester In 1933 the college conferred an no shots at the goal through the where he had coached high school honorary doctor of music degree first half and only three for the teams. Organ Engineers! Will you have one of these jobs 2 to 4 years after you graduate? a Project Engineer- Designing closed-circuit educational TV systems for schools, colleges and universities. a Project Engineer-Helping to design a building to house an electronic central office. • Systems Engineer-Spending a year and a half at Bell Labora- tories to study communication concepts of the future. • Marketing Engineer-Planning a total system to meet com- plete data and voice communication needs of a large business. • Supervising Engineer- Directing a group of engineers who specialize in complex circuit design. • Development Engineer- Increasing the potential bit rate ca- pacity of teletype channels. • Eng{taeer-Data Services-Integrating a microwave system with computer installations to transmit millions of data bits per second. • Planning Engineer- Programming plant growth to meet communication requirements five years ahead. These and other challenging assignments are open to qualified men with Bachelor and Master degrees in all engineering disciplines. We have excellent opportunities for hard-driving, creative engineers. For more information, write E. B. Dooley, College Employment Coordinator, New York Telephone Company, Room 1770, 140 West Street, New York 7, N.Y. And be sure to arrange for an interview when our college representatives visit your campus. on him and three years later he entire contest. The Garnet de- Midway through the first quar- was awarded the Officer of the fense enjoyed a quiet afternoon ter, center forward Rolf Kasper Palms by the French Academy. while the offensive line put tre~ maneuvered the ball down the This Sunday's recital will be his mendous pressure on the Hobart Rochester wing and sent a beau- 689th at the college. defense. The offensive line led tiful cross to Ed Lipton who The program: by Bill Bernhard, Larry McCray smoothly beat the Yellowjacket All Glory, Laud and Honor, J. Ed Lipton, and Rolf Kasper had goalie with a fine shot from the S. Bach; Passacaglia and Fugue many_ shots at the goal through penalty line. in C-Minor, J. S. Bach; Plainte, the first half, but thanks to seY- Rochester roared back only to Jean Langlais; Dialogue for Mix- era! ?reaks for the ~obart goalie, be stopped continually by the tures, Jean Langlair; Toccata t~e first half ended m a scoreless Garnet defensive line of Chris from Suite in F-Sharp Minor, tie. . Dusenbury, Abe Terpening and Mauz·ice Durufte; Caprice, Alex- Openmg ~he second half, the Helber always seemed to be in andre Guilmant; Pastorale, Alex- qarne~ contmued to pressure ~n- the right place to break up po- andre Guilmant; Marche Relig- til mrdway through the th1rd tential scoring opportunities. ieuse, Alexandre Guilmant. quarter, Kasper drilled home a Union goalie, Brian Barefoot who ~~iiifiiijiiji~~~~iiiiiiiiiiif · shot after. taking a corner kick was outstanding against Middle- \Guess I can't hold out any longer! Might as well get it cut at one 1 of the three smartest barber shops in the ' Capital District 1\ IN SCHENECTADY 6 Barbers 1 SRI 1 E B'A:ItB·ElR SHOP 158 ERIE BOULEVA.BD Between GE •nd State St. IN NISKAYUNA 3 Barbers NI 1 SI(IAYU'NA B'A:R'JEIR SH0P 1 AT THE lJPl>ER END OF NOT.r ST. Just Below Halltown Rd. IN ALBANY 4 Barbers LO'lJIDO'N CIE!N 1 T'SR BAIRBSR SH!()tp 360 NOB'I'IIEB.<N · BOULEVARD Opposlto Memorial Hospital Under the Personal Supervision of Joseph !Mastroianni HOURS: 8 A.M •• lJ P.M~ CL0 1 S'fJD. MONII)AY$ Plenty of Free Parking- from . outsrde, J.ohn Garey. The bury in the. saves department, had boote1s ~~re given many more no trouble m executing the opportumtres to score but were shutout performance because unable ~o capitalize. Seville Sim- the defenses fine work. onds .mrssed a goal by ~c~es in Each team played good, consist- the fma_l stan~a, when h1s fifteen ent soccer throughout the re- footer JUSt mcked the end post mainder of the first half and the and bounded away. score remained 1-0. On Wednesday aft.ernoon, .the The second half found Roches- Dutchmen took the freld . agamst ter putting extreme pressure on Union Pharmacy 600 Union Street the Union defense, but the con- tinuous fine play of Helber and Dusenbury kept them from any good shots on the goal. In the final period, the Union offense picked up its tempo and began putting a strong attack on th~ Rochester goal once again. Wrth about ten minutes left, John Where Union College boys Nelson boomed a goal kick far L over the heads of the Yellow.iacket 11ave gathered for over 50 fullbacks to Seville SimoilllS:who outran the entire Rochestei-:::back line to score on a breakaway .. Nel- ' son's kick was estimated to have traveled sixty to seventy yards to the speedy Simonds who clean- ly beat the Rochester goalie. years. FR 4-3605 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST·. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. Shermal1' s Liquor Store DISCOUNTS ON CASE LOTS -Free Delivery 720 Albany St. FR 2-3465 9 A.M. Hours: to 11 :00 P.M. Friday, 1 Ga: In The paces a1 RPI ton battle o of the s Gri< 2:00 p.n crowd. Shoes T year in out on t Since neighbOJ Union l: and 4 h year bo· game 'i that wi morale · The C game to opener wen~ ph erful R' Dutchm half sti juries ' squad tl of play. wald, 1: gainer,: practice and co shouldei two Wf who ha game i forced t loy-jack shouldei Pat Fa1 have be weeks I! other D of actio gressive Among and co- ends Bil scheid. that the against The : merous opportu men in ening w Yellowj ••• • • • • • • • • 1 :T • • • • • • • • • Th of Tu • .--- • • • • • • • • • • My is • 421 • 'I • I

~I 1962 ing per- has two 1ffensive e Union ~ld. The ·0 score. . quite a ochester ated the Witzel ' :ory was 1 as he ochester h school ·st quar- Kasper ,wn the a beau- on who )Wjacket 'rom the only to by the ,f Chris ing and o be in up po- :tunities. oot, who Middle- tent, had .e ~~--~·-- consist- the re- and the Roches- lsure on the con- lber and ·om any e Union npo and ttack on l again. lft, John :dck far )w.j;lcket fl4Jfwho tffi'-'back 'ay .. Nel- to have y yards 10 clean- llie. A.M. TS lO P.M. Friday, October 19, 1962 Garnet Grid Favorites In Homecoming Clash 1 Frosh Lose Vermont Trips Tinte Out To Wesleyan Thinclads,17 -46 ;'I;EWS ITEM: The Engineers of RPI dt'OJ)ped their 22nd consecu- B,y Charles Sinclair . tive football game last weekend in a 32-12 loss to Norwich. \I' · 1 I' d' · t d , By AI Starr - . . m SIC c. m 1sappom e · The weather was overcast and A twenty-two game losmg streak is an awfully long drought 1 W.1~h these wor<~s,. Coach. Bruce 1 cool un the University of Vermtmt, and no one realizes that more than Coach Ed Hoffman of RPI and 1 ;\,ll~son sho~v~d h.Is ~~;n~~~a~e. r;- ·~ l'ampus la;;t WPek, and the result 1 his. hapl2ss. r~arges. Another group_ th~t is weii uwure of this actwn to lao;t SatUJday s dtsmai ,. of the Cnion-Ve.l'lnont l'ros. S\ dubwus skem 1s Joe :\1aras and the still wmless l;nwn eleven. Three performance by t~e frosh f'!ot- country meet was just as gloon~v I weeks ago the general sentiment saw this wet'kend's Homecoming baH team. In ac(;Jmescent f~s~I?n, , fur the Garnet as they wer~ . game ;vi_th ,the .\Iide~rule1 s as a breather an,d a certainty f~n· per- theyt' stood 1 by andf took 1 a 36-6 t erushed 17-4!i by the Green, haps Cnwn s th1rd wm of. the 1'962 sea:-;on. ::'\ow the complexton has pas mg. ' n one o t 1e poorest ' M · , • c\'ang d qu'1t a b1't T' • h ' t t ·· • b 11 1 t l I' 1 f' II' 1 ountam <Joys. The score was, u e · e • ulllon as ~ e o \\ lll a n game, romp e e y ~ tsp ays 0 taeb{ tngth' and .block- 1 an imr 11 ·m·ernPnt however since 1 throttlf'd in two of the three defeuts and hard!:~<_' giving indication mg ever seen · Y ·Is reporter h · ' ' f · b II I b · th th' d Th I b h h • tlw Dutchhu, .. II , 1 W ... 1 , .. '. t P Dutchmr•n \\'E'I'l' held ~eot·e-; o u. supenor a· c u m. e 1r . · e c u- · as yet to approac 3 '·4 \at·ds > 8 1 . ah9w~r cds e~ 1 a 2 ~~ less in this meet last vear gettmg off the ground, a iact that has .puzzled many ob,;ervers, not The Union College football team is shown going through their · paces at a practice session earlier this week. The Dutchmen meet: RPI tomorrow at 2 p.m. before a Homecoming Weekend crowd in a' battle of \the winless.\ Union is favored to cop their first victory of the season. By Richard Erdoes Grid action returns to Alexander Field tomorrow afternoon at 2;00 p.m. _a~ the Garnet host an R.P.I. eleven before a Homecoming crowd. R1dmg on the outcome of the contest is the Dutchmen's Shoes. Trophy, which the Maras men will be defending for the second. year m a row. Last season the Garnet were successful as they came out on top, 10-8, by virtue of a Tom Pike field goal. Since the series between the~>------_::: _________ · neighboring rivals began in 1886, Union has won 43, lost only 12, Garnet penalties in the -first half and 4 have ended in a tie. This and led 28-0 at that point. Sev- year both clubs are entering the eral times the Garnet drove only game with winless slates, and to be thwarted by their own care- that will me a big factor as a lessness. Center John Wilson re- morale booster. covered a Rochester fumble in the The Garnet dropped their first second quarter only to have it game to St. Lawrence, their home nullified by an offside penalty. It opener to Alfred, and last week occurred on the Union twenty were physically beaten by a pow- yard line and the Y ellowjackets erful Rochester team, 40-6. The quickly cashed in on their break. Dutchmen entered the game at The Garnet's only score came half strength, the result of in- after 4:42 of the final stanza. juries which have plagued the Sophomore Joe Stevens, substi- squad throughout the first month tuting for Eales who left the of play. Co-captain Pete Bmg- game early in the third quarter wald, last season's top ground with a head injury, threw passes gainer, has been ailing since early to halfbacks Joe Sawyer, Fred practice sessions with a bad ankle Dill and end Al Panoff to move and compounded that with a the ball from the Dutchmen's 42 shoulder ailment sustained about to the Rochester 34. Fullback two weeks ago. Art Marshall, Steve Hopkins then banged his who has led the Garnet ground way to the 21 and a personal foul game in Burgie's absence, was against Rochester put the ball on forced to sit out most of the Yel- the 10 yard line. Hopkins carried loy-jacket game due to a near to the six and Stevens passed to shoulder separation, and of course, halfback Jack Sbrega for the Pat Fantauzzi and John Willcox touchdown. have been out of action for two The rout was a solid avenging weeks now. During the game six of the 15-0 upset the Garnet other Dutchmen were forced out pulled last year on a rain-soaked of action due to Rochester's ag- Homecoming W e e k e n d, a n d gressive tackling and blocking. brought the series with the Yel- A mong them were quarterback low jackets to a 22 wins, 31 losses, and co-captain Dave Eales, and and 4 ties position. It also set ends Bill Bowman and Rudy Urn- the Dutchmen back to a nothing scheid. It is expected, however, and three slate for the current that they will all return to action campaign. against the Engineers. Tomorrow the Garnet will be The rash of injuries and nu- striving for their first victory. merous penalties at some very in- Under their present condition the opportune times placed the Maras- Dutchmen will have no easy time men in second place from the op- with the Engineers. The rivalry ening whistle to the final gun. The has been keen and the victory will Yellowjackets capitalized on six be important to both teams. •••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • The Most Outstanding Player in this week's game will be presented with an award by • • • • • • • • : Time Center Jewelers : • • • \\Your Jeweler Away from Home\ • • • ' ' ., us mg an ., T · · · th l t f h. h · th G l h' t ff I · · h f more via the . irw· , . 1 - 1 .. - · om S1mpsor.t rJf Vermont won e eas o \\' ·tC ts . · e ante ~oar mg s a . nJunes, a\·e. o . . a. a;,:;, w 11 e gam- _ . . course, played havoc \nth the startmg team, a factor that compnses mg n 1~1 total themselves. . Vermont Tal>.es Fmst , the ~ssence o.f the Dtltchmen's woes. The disa'bled or partially The picture was not all bad the race; he cow red the 4 mile handicapped ltst reads Hke the pre-season depth chart. The line thudg~, for the team hml_,ed very course in 27 :5G.9 min. and was in partkular has Luken on a Swiss-t·hee~e avpearanct• as the front- 500 TD 1 ::Tub. T 6 ake, for m~tanee, followed by teamamte~ AI Bill·· liners have been ridJleJ f1:um end-to-end. The backfield has also f·~rr H P a~, .a ~ f'hnl aet·~al ~f- .ings and DeaH Myrick. In fourth had more than it:; share of hardships with both slatting halfbacks t~k :. ~'.)\• 1 \\~I 0 . • e wors mts- place wm; Cnion's Lany Newton operating- with tape and bandages, if at all. In addition, the hearty day •\ 11 llc 1 le ttedamF~natde ah· ll with a time of 28:37 min. The members left to hear the load have been di::;tinct in failing to measure were correc e . 1rs t e t u · fi · h t h f h h blockinn- was sup b T Ff't h nex . 17-10n . ms er was Gary up o w t past per ormanccs ave s own they can do. , k h \' II er · om 1 c - Morris tn nmth place, followed • <or . · au a · day to throw. Secund, 1 by Doug A Hen ( 12) J. h 1-I. the pattern was run well by Mark ( 13 ) an 1 A d W 0 d 11 ann ~~~~~~i~~ ~ 's~l~~~~;pattern was 1 Deppite' h·is o~e 1 ~l! f~~rtt M:1~ · fimsh, Newton showed power and Problems Evident drive in runni·ng a fine race. His Several more problems became ~ontinued development and the sadly evident on Saturday. First Improvement of Hann and Warde not enough time has been spellt should give the Garnet something working the Union offense. Too· to look forward to next year. RPI i~ Wt'll a\\'are of the Garnet difficulties, and, trite as it may read, is ~efinitcly up foi· this one. The_ Engineers are realistic enough h> petTelVC that the game trmHJtTow ts the only one all season long that they have the remote chance of winning. This is a team that has given up an average of 5:3 points a game compared to their own puny average of seven, a record that must rival any other in the country for ineptitude, However, after witnessing their 32-12 loss to Norwich last Saturday, we could not believe that this was a team that could be butchered to the tune of 82-6, unless they were facing a team mentored by the likes of Bear Bryant. ~uch .time has been spent work- Garnet Frosh Win mg With the varsity by running The nutehmen were not white- Although they hardly displayed what could be called \class the plays of the varsity's various washed completely,. however, as 1 . ~hey did ~isplay a cer:tain desire in their incompetence, a tra~t that opponents. The frosh backs made the touted frosh runners lived ts not eas1ly detect~d m the Garnet performers. As bad as th1s may too many mistakes because they up to pre-season expectations and sound, we can hard1ly blame any of the team me~bers, because they had not run the offense enough .. defeated the Vermont yearlings could not match the lethargy of the home crowd 1f they slept every Second, the defense did not adjust 27-30. Union's Dave Ring wo~ afternoon instead of running .pass patterns and power plays. We to. the Wesleyan unbalanced Hne the ft·osh race with a time of appreciated the remarks of our colleague, Mr. Clemens, in his column quickly. This was directly re- 15:29.6 min. for the 2 . 8 mile last week concerning th sepec~tcle of pure insipidness of the home sponsible for their first TD, a 25 course. Three Vermont runners fans. at the Alf~ed 9ame. The1r apathy w~s only matched by their yard end run. Too many mistakes were next followed by Jan Wer- b_oonshness, wh1ch IS probably the most mfamou.s one-two punch \:ere made on the defensive as- ner, Bill Hunt, Dave Bruce, Bill smce the two Adolphs teamed up two decades ago m Germany. slgnments. The big factor in both Wanamaker and Andy Carlson- cases is time. The frosh are Il allowed only Mondays and Thurs- a members of the Garnet frosh days to themselves, and the Mon- squad. These men turned in day prac~ice is always short. A \creditable\ races but \probably good . could have done better.\ Ring ran sc~lmmage, m which they an excellent race. Tied for the run t~elr own plays and work I d on their own defense, lasts about ea with only 390 yards to go, hal:f an ho_ur. To cure things like the fro~h flash Slmply ran away poor tacklmg and blocking more ;~~:d~~s challenger to win by 25 emphasis is being placed ~n the fundamentals this week. For in- stance, on Wednesday, 20 minutes were. devoted to a man-on-man tacklmg and blocking drill. Occasionally there were flashes ?f good football Saturday. For mstance, Hitchcock hit on 36% of his passes behind a leaky for- ward wall. The running backs showed the extra drive necessary as the team as a whole averaged 5 · 15 yards per carry. This is more (Continued on Page 6) TiDJt= CEnl~l' Jc;wEI«;rs \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ LAY IT AWAY! RPI Tomonow 'Union's next meet is against RPI tomonow as part of the big Homecoming we e k e n d The Engineers were crushed 15~ 42 last week by Colgate-a future Garnet opponent-and the Dutch- men may give them some trouble as Union strives for its initial win of the season. The meet will begin at 2:80 p.m. am! wiil be preceded by a frosh encounter at 2:00 p.m. Both races will start from Alexander Field. SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircl!lts Field's Liquor Store 38 ERIE BOULEVARD (Across from Train Station) The sheer absurdity of clowns and dummy animals was as ludic- rous as some of Bill Veeck's efforts to hypo interest for his cellar- dwelling St. Louis Browns of some years back. However, we can hardly compare sending a midget to bat as Mr. Veeck was once prompted to do, with the inane spectacle of the mustachioed gentle- men with the pipe seen sulking along the sidelines at the Alfred encounter. Union should win tomorrow, if for no other reason than the returning alumni should inspire them to the heights they are capable of reaching, injuries or no injuries. The ominous words of one RPI student, following their game last week, remains with us; however: These guys are like starved animals right now. They haven't eaten in three years, and boy, they are mighty hungry.\ EXCLUSIVE That's UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT UNION INN-517 Union St. • • • BUT NOT EXPENSIVE ~ SWEATERS POLISHED COTTONS IVY SLACKS CAMPUS OUTER WEAR ADLER SOCKS 164 Jay St. Suggestion: Show Union Identification Card and Get Exclusive 10% OFF on All Merchandise Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES • • TTTTTftftiTTTTTTtfffTTYfY'fT9fTTfttfttfttfft'tT • The winner will be determined by the submission • - Open . 24 Hours Daily- - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES • • • • of this ballot by mail or in .person no later than Tuesday, Ocotber 23. • • • • • • ~----------------------. • • • Of.ficial Ballot • • • • My Selection for the Most Outstanding Player • • • • is • ----~- -- ------~ • • • • • TIME CENTER JEWELERS • • • • 428 State St. FR 4-0183 • • • •••••••••••••••••••••••I SAVE ON OUR OWN Olde Village PRIVATE LABEL SPIRITS 4 4 A4444'44 4 44444h444444AJ.4#44'!'dr4.44.4 4 ..L .. .t4.14444 -WE DELIVER FREE- FR4-6846 For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Mauriue B. Graubart & Sens .u lay Street Jewelers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY

6 Alumni Council \Homecoming is not supposed to be a tremendous extravaganza; it is just one game where old alumni can gather,\ said Mr. Henry J. Swanker in a recent interview. \In addition it gives all the alumni committees a chance to meet rather than making a separate trip in the fall to dis- cuss various matters.\ Originally homecoming was merely a fraternity function but the Alumni Council recognized the need to include all non- fraternity alumni, so they estab- lished the present type of home- coming program. Mr. Swanker re- called that this was even before his time. According to all avail- able reports this year's Alumni Council Meeting will not be too different from previous years. Starting at 3:30 p.m. on Friday. President Davidson will address all council members. At 8:00 p.m. an Alumni recetpion to honor basketball players will be held at the Ketz residence. Saturday will bring the tradi- tional Alumni Council Meeting to Old Chapel at 8:30. Here mem- bers and alumni will hear reports of the various standing commit- tees such as: Funds, Athletics, Student Life, Finance, Admis- sions, Publications, etc. Swanker said that this year a study of the place of the Alumni Council ill the college has been conducted and will be reported on Satur- day. He continued that sine~ t~e establishment of the CounCll m 1910 many functions of the coun- cil have been taken over by pro- fessional offices, citing the admis- sions office, which had been handled completely by the Alumni before the late 40's, and the pro- fessional fund raiser who ha!=l been hired to replace the Alumni's job of fund raising. Swanker claimed that many alumni have indicated that fra- ternity parties are not very well alumni orientated and as such, the Council will also discuss the possibility of an all college home- coming party for next year. Frosh ... (Continued from Page 5) than most All-America backs do alone. There was nothing wrong with the Dutchboy spirit last Satur- day, and there should be nothing wrong with it today, when Ver- mont invades Schenek at 3:00. Hopefully, the bad plays will be weeded out, and only the good will remain for the game. In practice, things have been going well and the injuries sustained last week are generally in good shape. A tough set of calis- thentics, introduced last Monday, have begun to show its effect. Vermont is reputed to be tough, so we are not going to stick our neck out this time, the last chop with the axe hurt too much. But watch the game. When the bad spots are ironed out, this team has the potential to be a good one. for the finest in custom clothing and furnil[;hings 14 E. 44t1. St. • New York 17, N.Y. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Catering to Union College Students Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. Colloquim ••• ably most interesting and si~nifie cant. Since the Twenties South- ern authors such as: Roark Brad- ford, Dubose Heywal'd, Julia Pet- erkin, Howard Odum, and Robert (Continued from Page 1) Emmett Kennedy, have produced \The challenge of change, then, significantly sympathetic Negro- reinforced by the challenges of centered works. By the later For- Mencken and later critics armed ties and Fifties the better Negro- w1th Army statistics on literacy, oriented novels, Jefferson Young's made for a rare self-conscious- A Good Man, Peter Feibleman's ness\ which produced a swarm of A Place Without Twilight, and critics, editors and teachers who Hubert ·Creekmore's The Chain in jetted the literary stream with the Heart, to name a few,. exhibit new self-perpetuating vigor. \The true literary achievement and ·em- results of this process have been phatic identifications. not only autofecundation but the . Fools E¥en Negros establishment of a new Southern literary mode or style, a new lit- So convincing are the efforts erary traditionism, almost a new that invariably, when tested on. literary establishment.\ competent Negro readers, a Ne- gro author is assumed. \Even Most of the trained young Southern white girls in their Southern writers use a variation Twenties, like Lucy Daniels, Shir- of the techniques called \symbolic ley Ann Grau, and Charlotte John- irony and symbolic naturalism\ or son,\ added Bradbury, \produce the poetic practice derived from effective stories of intimate Negro· the French post-symbolists, Pound family life. It must g-ive segrega- and Eliot; the fictional practice tionists, dedicated to protecting derived from Flaubert, James and. Southern white womanhood, quite Conrad. There is a tendency for a turn to discover Lucy Daniels at young writers who employ other 21 writing convincing scenes set techniques to be ignored. This in a Negro couple's bedroom. But, criterion Bradbury feels is a \ser- as I have said, Southerners-and ious distortion of the total pic- particularly Southem politicians- ture. Most striking has been the . do not find time for reading.\ variety of the writing,\ he said. It 1•anges from existential novels, Dr. Bradbury concluded by ob- surrealist poetry, satirical alle- serving that in the light of ac- gory through more conventional complishment by young fi·rst nov- hard-boiled fiction, historical real- elists, Harper Lee, Walker Percy, ism, sensitive youth stories, and and Reynolds Price, and by such problem novels to the new liberal established older Southern writers literature, more important from a as Katherine Anne Porter, Wil- sociological or political point of liam Faulkner, Robett Penn War- view,\ which challenges the tra- ren, and Carson McCullet'S, \it ditional mores and scores the sac- appears quite evident that the red prejudices of Southern soci- Southern Renaissance is no longer ety.\ This form of ediction had simply a cultural phenomenon. It a consistent development from the is a chapter of literary history, Twenties to the Fifties, from a perhaps the largest chapter in the sociological approach, through a American book.\ militant partisanship of the poor- white and Negro, to \simple cos- Election Schedule Concert ••• (Continued from Page 3) Friday, October 19, 1962 Older ••• (Continued from Page 1) Monday, Oct. 22, 7:00 P.M. Meeting of all class members who wish to run for a class office or Student Council representative, in West College Library. The election procedure will be ex- plained, questions answered, and Apparently the distribution of sound in the chapel was not so well achieved as in the center,· were learned in the oral tl'adition. for there we1•e reports much less Usually accompanying himself on praising than this from listeners. the guitar, Older often plays the in other parts of the audience, fiddle at his concerts, in addition. i yet by meFely observing the. bowing of the string players one Today, Clarence Older lives in ld · · Middle Grove, New York. He cou see the preciSion of their commutes each day to Schenec• attacks! tady'.s Alco Products, Inc., where official petititon forms issued. E · v · · Petition forms will also be avail- mgma armt10n able at the Dean of Students' The \large\ work of the eve- Office on Tuesday, October 23. ning was Elgar's Enigma Varia- tions. Elgar's music is not the Monday, Oct. 29, 4:30 P.M. fad it was early in this century, Petition forms due, with the but there are many poetic signatures of at least forty (40) moments in this piece which will members ·Of the Class of 1966. ensure its continued popularity. he has been employed as a ma- chinist for the last 21 years. As a result, he only gives concerts at night and on the weekends. His last appearance before appearing here at Union wiU be as one of the feature singers at Comell's Folk Festival, October 20th. T d 0 30 12 00 4 The performance was well paced. While on campus, he and his ues ay, ct. ' : noon- . = 30 and finely balanced, with many son will be the guests of Phi Ep- P.M. or 5 :00- 7 :00 P.M. of the difficult passages heroic-. silon Pi Fraternity, where they Primary Elections: Primary ally projected. The orchestra will have dinner. After the con- elections will be held, if necessary, seemed really at home with this vocation, Older is scheduled to reduce the numbers of candi- music, programmed by Curtis to appear at the Rathskellar, dates to those required on the. along with the Fantasia as a· where it is hoped everybody will final ballot. Resident students tribute to his countryme.n. . 1 join in on the s .. inging. will vote between 5:00 and 7:00 P.M. in the West College Lounge·, One might describe the total result as less than what one non-resident students will vote at should expect, for anyone who I the Dean of Students' Office be- I tween 12 :00 noon and 4 : 30 P.M. heard Curtis direct Beethoven's T AJJ B •td\ Eroica Symphony last spring 0 · ·. Ul . lOgS Thursday, Nov. 1, 7:00 P.M. knows that the Albany Symphony. Class Meeting: The Class of can present an outstanding and 1966 will meet in Memorial memorable performance. But what Alpha Phi Omega is going to Chapel. The candidates for all was lacking in polish they cer-1 cooperate with the administration i offices will be introduced and the tainly accounted for in spirit, a in the handling of lost and found. candidates for President will spirit which many organizations A mem9er of Alpha Phi Omega address the class. · of comparable size and activity will make regular visits to your lack. building office to pick; up lost arti- Monday, Nov. 5, 9:00 A.M.-4:30 cles. All items will then be taken P.M. or 5:00-7:00 P.M. 1 to the Regist1·ar's Office where Elections: Final elections will in the West College LoungP;. they may be claimed by student.<~. be held in the West College non-resident students will vote 1 Ft·equent postings of valuable Lounge. Resident students will between 9:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. II items will be made in the Concor- vote between 5:00 and 7:00 P.M. at the Dean of Students' Offic~. dy and on student bulletin boards. mopolitan understanding.\ As a result of this development, the white-authored fiction dealing intimately with the Negro is prob- 1.. __ _ Best Service in Town Pall Mall Presents~ GIRL WATCHERS GUIDE SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN SAVE ON PHIL'S OWN BRANDS! Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 WHITE-COATED LAB·LOON Don't let this girl's costume fool you. She's not really a mad scientist. She's a girl-a real, live girl. It's just that she has to prove something-to herself and to her family. She has to prove that she has a brain and that, if she ever has to compete with men on their own terms, she can do it-and win. But she really doesn't want to com- pete with men. In her heart she wants to attract men and eventually, marry one. The girl vhtcher should not let this situation disturb him, however. If the girl is watchable, she should be watched, no matter what her motives or ambitions may be. The same thing is true of a cigarette. If it's smokeable, it should be smoked -and Pall Mall is the most smokeable of all! A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere Pall Mall's natural mildness is so good to your taste! NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties ac:c:omodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 So smooth, so satisfYing, so downright smokeable! Prviluctof ~~J'~ ., ef'A? 7, d~ is our middle name IMP ·I Vol. 9~ R Sea11 similari1 Thursd~ Science, as the a pa Lect O'Faol: writer an cussion ' C. P. Sn Snow e:x there is chasm b humaniti• lecture 1 of Snow out that far mot' made it Accord concept itive; in too comi as either Their mt concerns, advertise outer sp and inad as Snow Havin1 of the f: ing, O'F: ideas on the \twc gards a~ Althougl there is two, he all men, tellectua tests, a1 search stressed scientist: and an a duct the iize that O'Faol \vas, at made a the scie1 done du the sam be a w such ac Masters' b'Faolai \Vas pre ·· \two cul involven his view might h: own divi Con Attc i It wa! 'I· Student Lecture~: that thE concert Fresh mE by 50% rise in t two con· Thee this ye: been gr an extra General Force VI in Marc· Counc nounced Tuesda~ Lounge tees we these, a tee was of ali s discount a card' hers of listing 1 and the A pia formed. the maJ ed for 1 top pri pans10n The cuss tl dorm c man ad· counsel- Uncle Winter Febi.•uaJ end wa: March

1962 1) edition. ;elf on ys the ldition. UNION IMPRESSIONS Page 2 Vol. 92 - No. 6 Founded at Union College 1n 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1962 RPI CONQUEST Pa,ge 5 PRJ CE 15 CENTS iVes in k. He :henec• where a ma- rs. As mcerts :Is. His 1earing one of ll'nell's l. ~Huntley Resigns Post As Dean nd his 'hi Ep- e they te con- teduled ;kellar, ly will ngs •ing to tration i found. Omega o your st arti- ~ taken where udents. aluable :::oncor- boards. O'F aolain Describes Calendar Oxford Our Cultural lJnity Sean O'Faolain called for a realization of the basic similarity of aims in both the humanist and scientist at Thursday morning's Convocation. He spoke on \:Art and Science, the Single Culture\ <b- as the annual Phi Beta Kap- pa Lecturer. O'Faolain, well-known Irish writer and critic, centered his dis- cussion on \Two Cultures,\ by C. P. Snow. In \Two Cultures,\ Snow expressed his belief that there is a great, impassable chasm between science and the humanities; O'Faolain aimed his lecture at denying the vemcity of Snow's assumptions, pointing out that the actual situation is far more complex than Snow made it seem. According to O'Faolain, Snow's concept of culture is too defin- itive; individuals in society are too complicated to be segregated as either scientists or humanists. Their multiplicity of interests and concerns, ranging from subway advertisements to journeys in outer space, make it unrealistic and inadequate to classify them as Snow did in \Two Cultures.\ Having developed the subject of the fallacies in Snow's think- ing, O'Faolain expressed his own ideas on the relationship between the \two cultures,\ which he re- gards as being a single culture. Although he did not deny that there is a distinction between the two, he preferred to think that all men, regardless of their in- tellectual inclinations and inter- tests, are involved in the same search fo,r perfect truth. He stressed tbat both humanists and scientists need a guiding vision and an active imagination to con- duct the search, even if they rea- iize that the search is endless. O'Faolain mentioned that Snow was, at first, a scientist; he was made a Knight of the Realm for the scientific work which he had done during World War II. At the same time, Snow desired to be a writer and thus produced such acclaimed boolts as \The Masters\ and \The Affair.\ b'Faolain concluded that Snow \Vas probably torn between the \two cultures\ because of his deep involvement with each and that his view of the impassable chasm might have been the result of his own division. Convocation Attendance Up It was announced at this week's Student Council meeting by the Lecture.-; and Concerts Committee that the attendance at the first concert increased by 20% with Freshmen attendance increasing by 50%. There was also a 4% rise in the attendance at the first two convot:'ations. The committee mentioned that this year's iecture budget has been greatly increased and that an extra convocation featuring Lt. General Burchenol of the Air Force will be presented sometime in March. SEAN O'FAOLAIN Peace Talks Open Nov. 16 Small Discussion Groups Saturday morning at 10:00 the meeting will resume at the Eman- uel Baptist Church .• Small discus- sion groups, will carry on through the afternoon. A registration fee of $.25 will be required for the Saturday meeting. Bristol feels that the conference will be quite worthwhile since all of the speak- ers will be experts in their respec- tive fields. All Union students are Challenged To Debate Council president Ed Skloot an- nounced at the meeting held Tuesday evening in Hale House Lounge that three new commit- tees would be formed. One of these, a student discount commit- tee was formed to compile a list of aU stores in town which give discounts to students. Ultimately a card will be distributed to mem- bers of the college community listing all of these establishments and the amount of their discounts. urged to attend and participate. . Affidavit Repealed A planning committee was also formed. It will decide which of the many improvements suggest- ed for the college should be given top priority in Union's new ex- panslOn program. The third committee will dis- cuss the possibility of having dorm counselors serve as Fresh- man adv-isors until regular faculty counselors are chosen. Under new business the date for Winter Weekend was set at Febt•uary 22-23, and A Jazz Week- end was temporarily scheduled for March 23. N ott Memorial Library and the General Engineering Building will serve as the best shelters in the event of nuclear attack, according to Dean 0. Edward Pollack in a recent interview. Also acceptable are the Rathskellar, and the base~ ment of West College and Rich- mond House, with West College slightly more preferable because of its sheltered location. Stating that he did not expect matters to get much more seri- ous, he felt that if the situation did worsen, the college would take in a supply of food and water. The following article is repl·int- ed from the Wesleyan Argus: Elimination of the controversial communist disclaimer affidavit from applications for federal stu- dent loans was voted by the House of Representatives last Tuesday. Senate Acted Earlier Earlier, the U. S. Senate had voted to discontinue the compul- sory affidavit for applicants de- Those students wishing to write siring federal aid under the N a- humerous or satirical articles for tional Science Foundation Act of a special Prom Issue of Concordy, 1950 with the stipulation that it please report to the Publication be also held from the. National Offices Wednesday evening, at Defense Education Act of 1958.8:00 P.M. By Edward Prostic The first Vesper Service, mark- ing the annual Reformation Day rally, will honor the Rev. Dean M. Kelly in Memorial Chapel at 7:30 P.M. Sunday. The Rev. Kelley, executive di- l'ector of the department of religi• ous liberty of the National Coun- cil of Churches, will deliver his sermon on \What Faith Can Do!' Summer Work To Continue Union College and the General Electric Foundation will co-spon- sor a summer research program in chemistry and physics for gift- ed high school students, Dr. John R. Haines, Assistant to the Presi- dent of Union College, has an- nounced. Haines states that \The pro- gram is devoted entirely to stu- dent research, with no teaching of formal courses.\ The students will spend the majority of their day in the laboratory, doing in- dependent laboratory work. Students will be selected from New York, New England, the Middle Atlantic States, District of Columbia, Virginia, and North Carolina. All eleventh grade pub- He and private school students are eligible. Twenty students will be se- lected for the six week program, all expenses being paid by the two foundations. W'hile at Union they will work on selected research projects in teams of two. Four members of the Union faculty will oversee their work in addi- tion to a consultant from the General Electric Research Labor- ( Continued on Page 6)

•. I 2 Friday, October 26, 1962 friday, Ocl Fraternal Improvement By Willard Grant Union College- Stl First Itnpressions I , By Raymond Akafor I Published l\r iuays during the school year by the Student Body of Union Collcgt:, S~..:hene,·tady. N. Y. Na .. tional Advertising Representative: Editorial Office, Washburn Hall. Union College, Publication Office, Schenectady Printing Company, 502 llroadway. Entered In the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscription 15c a copy; $3 a yef<r delivered anywhere in the United States. Mr. Grant is initiating a new column, in which mem:bers of the college community may air their feelings on the fraternity prob- lem. At the student-faculty dinner last Sunday, the most significant aspect of the discussion about fn1.ternities was the reluctance of the faculty to discuss the situ- tion intelligently and openmind- edly with the students after mak- ing one or two valid criticisms of the system. The faculty mem- bers who .spoke, with one notable exception, appeared convinced that fraternities at Union are outdated and that they are des- tined to disappear. These views are probably based to some extent on the fraternity system as it existed some five or six years ago. The faculty, for the most part, has not noticed or taken into account the many improve- ments that have taken place re- cently. tion of study rules, the intl·oduc- tion of dLnners and discussions with the faculty, the elimination of some of the absurdities of hell week, the scheduling of hell week before classes start, and more recently the I. F. C. propesal to institute a centraLized food buying plan. Raymond Okafor, a citizen of Ni.geria, has recently enrolled in Union College as a freshman. In the following article, he gives his impressions ·of Union. walls, but I had to wait for the commencement of the academic year. It was all bustle and confusion in the fi,rst week of the school year so that I hardly had time .t0r a close appraisal of all that was going on around me. Oes·- pite all the appa1•ent chaos, I could not help but notice the persenal touch, which I am told IS most often lacking in institu- tions of higher learning. Both the faculty and the old students seemed to be anxious to establish a close personal relationship with each of the new students. Unfor- tunately, as time went on, this trait in the character of the col- lege seemed to diminish rather than increase. The interest in 'the foreign students, however, lasted Ienger and reached its climax on the opening Convoca- tion of the college when they were introduced to the whole faculty and the student body. Nationacl Advertising Service, Inc .• College Publishers Representative. 420 ~ladison Ave., N. Y. C. A Vestige of Tradition It would be impossible to say that the faculty-student conference held in Scotia was a failure, for wisely its ob- jectives were never outlined. Yet it was a bit of nonsense from start to finish. President Davidson's opening address spelled out Union's latest developments. This could better have been done at a convocation, so that every student would have been let in on the news, not just the chosen few. From there on the conference was no more than a three-ring faculty circus, from which almost nothing constructive emerged. The first half of the conference was wasted deba:ting the desirability and practicality of parking lots, inter- rupted only by the faculties' needling, and in one case of poor manners, belittling one another. Perhaps in this we find the one accomplishment of the conference: the stu- dents were able to see why nothing ever gets accomplished here, and why those things fortunate enough to be imple- mented, take twenty years to do so. What readily became apparent, was that the students and faculty had little in common. What the faculty de- bated might better have been said at a faculty conference, while the student comments could have accomplished more at an IFC meeting. What was worse, the faculty generally paid little attention to what was being said anyway. A few important facts did emerge however. For one thing it was decided that the present fraternities were in poor shape because of a lack of maturity among their members. In one of the few examples of reasoning dis- played, this lack of maturity was somehow traced to the students' inexperience in killing people. The few recommen- dations made to rectify the situation were fortunately de- feated. The only other accomplishment was the creation of the phrase \high level.\ After one faculty member screamed in anguish that more \high-level thinking\ was necessary, the keynote for the rest of the discussion was set. We had appeals for \high-level thinking,\ \high-level understand- ing,\ \high-level reasoning,\ and even \high-level com- mittees.\ Definitions were not offered for any of these terms. All in all, the conference accomplished nothing. All in all it probably accomplished nothing last year, and prob- ably will accomplish nothing in the future. But the meal was good, the drinks delectable, the sophistication superb, and the performances given by some of the participants, unparalleled. The Moral Issue The Cuban crisis has electrified most of the United States with wild displays of chauvenism, flag-waving, and general herd tactics. It seems important therefore, that on a college campus, where things are supposed to be look- ed upon rationally and critically, we wouldn't succomb to mass hysteria. It is ·therefore discouraging to see the rashness that has affected the rest of the country so prevalent here. It is true that we've been letting ourselves be stepped upon, and that \creeping communism\ is fast replacing \creep- ing socialism\ as the number one menace, but do the ends justify the means? President Kennedy explained that to avert a showdown in Berlin his action was necessary. Granted. But how many people, especially on our campus, have questioned the moral implications we've raised? Any text of Ameri- can History usually attempts to apologize for rough-riding Roosevelts \big stick\ and Latin American invasions, yet we'r~\:pr~paring for another. In the name of freedom of chol:c~·'we are telling a country what they can and can't do in their own territory and who their leaders can or can't be. How can we in the name of independence order Fidel to stop playing with Nicki because Nicki lives on the wrong side of the tracks? Can we honestly call Cuba's missles \offensive weapons, increasing the possibility of war,\ and yet j11stify our missle bases ringing the Soviet Union? , Self-Improvements Noted In spite of many glaring de- fects, the fraternity system at Union has improved significantly in the last four years. All the fraternities are now running in the black, and their financial status is very closely watched by the administration. The college has set up new social rules which specify the times when and the places where women may be en- tertained and which limit the length and number of house par- ties. The kitchen and dining facil- ities have to be clean and well run since they are periodically checked by state health officials. The fraternities, individually and through the I. F. C., have made many self-improvements. A partial list includes the deferred rushing system to ease the pres- sure on the freshmen, the crea- Of course there is still room for improvement. The faculty's asser- tion that fraternities are anti-in- tellectuaJ is valid although the study environment in the dormi- tories is not any better. Also, the tradition of heH week must be radically changed or even abol- ished if any faculty support for fraternities is to be gained. An- other criticism is that the exist- ence of fraternities tends to weaken school spirit by diverting a great measure of the students' loyalty from the college to the fraternities. Possibly the greatest weakness of the fraternities is the rushing system. To much time and money is devoted to rushing because there is so much competition amopg the houses for the freshmen. There aren't enough freshmen to go around to keep seventeen fraternities in good shape, so the houses must engage in cut-throat competition. Problems Soluble These problems are not insolu- ble by any means. There is a very strong sentiment among the un- dergraduates and the alumni for fraternities which is often neglected by the faculty. Al- though these fraternity men firmly believe in the system, they are anxious to improve it. If valid criticisms are properly pre- sented and if both sides take in- terest in their outcome, Union College will have a fraternity system in which both the faculty and the students can take pride. Union Then and Now By Jacob Lieb 50 years ago The Union College new Alumni Gymnasium has for some time past seemed, though sure, some- what in the distance. The deam of the students who first started the gymnasium fund in 1909, and the dream of all students since that time as well as many of the alumni and friends has at last taken on a definite shape, and before many months, will become a reality. * The Union College faculty favors Woodrow Wilson in the upcoming election. * * Annette Kellerman, who re- cently appeared at the Van Curler Opera House, gave an exhibition of swimming and diving at the swimming pool of Syracuse Uni- versity. 0 Union! Why didst thou not have a swimming pool. 25 years ago Through the preserving effort of the national chapters of the Phi Sigma Delta fraternity thirteen German Jewish students, who with other believers in a form of living contrary to Nazi philosophy have been curbed in almost all their activities, will be studying in the U.S. this year. The Union College chapter of Phi Sigma Delta, one of the most aetive groups in the national or- ganization is bringing to Union one of those thirteen students. With the commendable generosity of the administration, the Phi Sigs have made it possible for Hans Munzer to enjoy an aca- demic liberty which has not been felt or seen in Frankfurt for several years. * You tell a Smith girl about a man and she asks, \What kind of family has he?\ You tell a Vassar girl about a man and she asks, \How much money has he?\ But when you tell a Skidmore girl about a man, she says, '·Where?\ 10 years ago The Concordiensis endorses Adlai Stevenson for President of the United States in the upcom- ing' November elections. What- ever happened to Alf Landon? * * They don't inspect the dorms any more. A century ago it was one of Prexy's jobs. Good Doctor Nott is supposed to have caught a student with a keg of beer in his room. The student, flushed with embarrassment, muttered that he'd been ill and his physi- cian had prescribed beer to build him up. \And has it done you any good?\ asked Nott. \Oh yes sire!\ was the reply. Yesterday I could hardly carry the keg upstairs. Now I can carry it all around the room.\ 5 years ago A new freshman dorm will be built in the pasture north of the present West College. The new building, which is expected to hold 120 students, will permit the school to increase the size of the freshman class to between 325- 35'0 students. * Mr. Robert LeBaron, Chair- man of the Robert Porter Patter- son Library Committee, an- nounced to the Board of Trustees of Union College that he is \opti- mistic about getting funds for the new library and that he has three or four people who are interested in making large dona- tions.\ * * A group of Rochester students stole on campus last Thursday night and painted the Idol. How- ever, it was the wrong Idol. Chester A. Arthur received his first coat of blazing yellow, while our oft-painted Idol remained a drab mixture of faded red and green. Letter to the Edito~ To the Editor of Concordiensis: It is my .opinion that the pur- pose of the Concordiensis is to convey the news of importance to the college community. T:Qe first page of the Concordiensis should be used expressly for this purpose. If the Concordiensis intends to devote part of its valuable news space to society news, it is only proper to inform the administra- tion, faculty, and students of this so that all appropriate announce- ments may be entered · in the \Society Column.\ Extraneous News It should be obvious to the editors that this type of report- ing does not interest the majority of the campus community. There- fore, the Concordiensis might serve the campus and itself in a more appropriate manner if it would redirect its emphasis towards newsworthy news. Tradition Imperative In the burning heat of the trop- ical sun, l frantically tore o,pen the letter: \it is with the great\ est pleasure,\ it read, \that we are offering you a place as a student ef Union College.\ I was taken aback. Union ·College? What's that? Never heard of it before. That was my first intro- duction to Union College, situated in the city of Schenectady in the state of New York and founded in the year of our Lord, 1795. It is not surprising that I knew nothing about the school since, like very many of the other Amer- ican colleges, nothing is known about Union College. in Nigeria. I had no alternative other than to rely on my imagination, which soon proved inadequate, since it only served to whet my desire to know more. It was, therefore, with the greatest curiosity that I set out for the United States It was a most colorful and in- and Union College. spiring ceremony, and for the first ttme in my life, I realized Age Equals Wisdom that tradition, pomp and page- The first time I saw the an try have an essential part to campus, was, fortunately for me, play in the life of an institution before the beginning of the of higher learning. First there academic year. lt was a cold and was a procession of the men of windy day and the bleak appear- letters in richly colored academic ance of the city of Schenectady gowns, whose academic qualifica- E did not help to put a bright pic- tions I had long admired and ture on things. Coming from the envied; then an inspiring speech noise of the city, one is startled by Presid!'nt Carter Davidson, by the sepulchural silence of the and finally the presentation of The soo college campus. I was greatly prizes and a closing speech by a vations of impressed by the grey academic member of the faculty. The aca- a flood c ~ppearance of the ivy-covered demic prizes awarded to various from a 11 l:mildings; the ivy indicating an- individuals impressed me a great istration : tiquity, and since wisdom is con- deal for I felt that this was a goal hers who nected with old age, I reasoned, that each student should aspire new facil therefore, this school must be to achieve. Fortunately or un- cated nex wise in the ways of scholarship. fortnuately for me, I developed been aim I felt for the first time that a very low opinion of the frater- ;md impr this school was really going to nities from the academic reports satisfy my academic ambitions. that were read out during the Now lo By the time I had completed a convocation. Although I felt very , are the S tour of the campus, I realized uncomfortable when, with the and the that the architect who had drawn rest of the foreign students, I Students. up the plans of the grounds had was exposed to the full gaze of stated th done a good job indeed. Now the audience, I did not, however tied with that I had seen all that I could of mind very much since I realized ftce whicl the external appearance of this that all the fuss only went to degree· of institution of higher learning I show that the authorities were vious lc was all afire to know what it really proud and glad to have us. pointed o was really like inside those grey (Continued on Page 3) still to h -;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;~~;;~~~~~~;;~ dent Act ~ · :I · the StudE 8 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N.Y. i< i< ~ SHOW TIME 7:00 - 9:00 A Coming Out Party James Robertson Justice British Comedy 8 V V LANES D&J AUTO StRVICE 1723 Van Vronken Ave. 1372 UNION ST. STUDENT RATES 35c per game up till 6 P.M. Weekdays 45e per game after 6 P.M. and Weekends Brakes, Tune lJp, Wheel Alignment and Balance 8 Bar On Premises FREE SHOES (save 25c) to College Students NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue 8 Dl 6-4895 016-9644. D&J AUTO SERVICE 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6·9644 RICCITELLO'S Erie Boulevard at Jay Street -}~­ Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks-Chops SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS ' '· were now their fee also state office wil redone bE from a v which bUJ of occup: Also lc are as YE the Stude ents, Stu ternity c< mittee an Al Somn t:ordy, st: in Old ( indeed. ities ori Conco1·dy not been also mov sometime new stud floor, wil than pasl use of equipmer for joint tee and The SE contains flees of ment an ONE t c CL All W PICI . 527 Nc DoM Let At Nl For those still unable to grasp the moral issue, keep yelling and raving; lose sight of your moral commitments, and always \remember the Main.\ In the October 19, 196<2 issue of the Concordiensis there ap- peared on the first page an article announcing the engagement of Michael J. Gordon Managing Editor of the paper, to Miss Judith Ann Davis. I am very happy for Mr. Gordon, and wish him all the success in his future connubial plans, and I imagine most of his friends and acquaint- ances do the same. David I. Scheichet, '62

1962 ns the school time that Des- I .the told the with this col- rather est in wever, its nvoca- in- the page- art to there of 1 alifica- and speech of by a aca- great goal aspire or un- £rater- the lt very the I of to were ave us. y ,/ I eel nee ops (' 1 I ·I Friday, October 26, 1962 Student Activities To Change Locations ' Nott Memorial By Richard Sifton There has been much tal'k re- cently about the plans for the college book store and the Mountebanks when Washburn Hall is demolished to make way for two new buildings. These plans, at the present time, are extremely vague. It is currently expected that the college store will be moved into the basement of Nott Memorial. Business Managet• Theodore G. Mcllwaine has said that the move will probably be made in the spring; it was orig- inally planned that it would he made this winter. If and when the move is made, it wHl pl•ob- ably be done on a ·permanent basis. Mr·s. Hilda Hill, who man- ages. the store, feels that the :pro- posed location would be \sec- ond best\ because of its overall dimensions and construction. Pictured above is the Jonathan Pearson, III, Director of . The plans for the Mounte- banks are even less hopeful fr.om Admissions, in Old Gym. Also recently located in Old Gym are the the points of view of Professors Dean of Students Office, as well as various student activities. Gifford W. Wingate and John B. Old Gym Girdner, the faculty advisors of Th fi f J th P the drama group. The Mounte- e of ces o ona an earson, banks will be moved to the main William T. Allen, John Parker floor of the Nott Memorial and and Calvin Schmidt, all of the Admissions Department, are now will therefore be restricted to blessed with an abundani:!e of presenting theatre- in -the-round, much-needed space and are dec- such as \Our Town.\ Wingate orated in soft pastel colors with said, in commenting on the move, contrasting walnut paneling. The that \as a temporary expedient, entire floor is covered with wall- we could get by·\ Girdner regards to-wall carpeting and is shined the Mountebanks as an activity down upon by fluorescent light- which fulfills academic as well as · h · h extracurricular functions; the mg whic glves t e appearance presentation of arena productions By Jack Seifert The soon-to-be completed reno- vations of Old Gym have yielded a flood of approving comments from a majority of the admin- istration and student body mem- bers who will .benefit from the new facilities. The building, lo- cated next to the infirmary, has been almost entirely modernized of a skylight. for· an indefinite period of time, When completed, the renovat- perhaps two or three years, would ing operations will have cost the . all but remove the educational college $50,000. aspects which are derived from presenting several types of plays. ;md improved. Now located on the first floor are the Student Acitivities Office WRUCFeatures and the .office of the Dean of Students. The Dean of Students stated that he was quite satis- At 2 P.M. tomorrow, the WRUC fied with his larger, modern of- Sports Crew will broadcast the fice which affords him a greater football game with Hobart from h' Geneva, New York. There will degree· of privacy than lS pre- •be a pre-game show at 1:30, and vious location. However, he fl at kickoff, 2 P.M., Bob Rice and pointed out that the oors were Sid Schnoll will begin a play-by- still to be completed in the Stu- play description. dent Activities Office although ·the Student Activities personnel * * * were now well situated and have WRUC is presently extending their feet on the ground. He an oppol,'tunity for a Union Col- also stated that the ceiling in his lege student to take an executive office will have to be completely position in the largest activity redone because of water damage ·on carp. pus, while reaping sub- from a valve on the second floor · stantial financial benefits. which burst during the first week WRUC is looking for a quali- of occupation. fied student to fill the position Also located on the first floor of Advertising Sales Manager. f The Advertising Sales Manager are as yet unoccupied rooms or is placed in complete control of the Student Government compon- d b ents, Studen~ Council, 1nter-fra- all advertising solicite Y ternity council and the Tax Com- WRUC. mittee and also the Concordiensis. A large commisison and an Al Sommer, Editor of the Con- executive position could be open Gordy, stated that \The facilities for the qualified and ambitious in Old Gym are very handsome student by calling Paul Neuhoff indeed. Unfortunately, the facil- at DI 6-9776 or Dick Judelsohn ities originally alloted to the at FR 2-9772, and asking about Concordy by Dean Pollock have the position of Advertising Sales not been provided.\ WRUC will Manager. also move jnto their new stwiios ------~-- sometime later this year. The new studios, located on the first floor, will be a great deal larger than past facilities and will make use of modern, more compact equipment which will be paid for jointly by the Tax Commit- tee and Union College. The second floor of Old Gym contains the handsome new of- fices of the Admissions Depart- ment and the Idol and Garnet. ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 Down to Louis', let us go, Let the . .Jager. freely flow. Union College will soon be the recipient of a 1620 IBM computer. President DaYidson announced its purchase in his· opening address to t h e student-faculty conference held in Scotia last Sunday after- noon. He said that the contract for its purchase had been signed last week. The computor has been pur- chased because of the inadequa- ~ies of rental, and trips to the General Electric plant. for the finest in custom clothing ancl furnishings 14 E. 44tk St. • New Yor1l7, N. Y, A uniq~e place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Wingate and Girdner submit- ted a report last year in which they stated their ideas concern- ing the needs of the Mounte- banks. They feel that a theater (Continund on Page 4) TIRit:: C~nl~l' Jew~lf;I\S \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ LAY IT AWAY! BUY ·~ WITH All Keepsake Diamonds are protected against loss from the setting for one full year •.• by the famous Keepsake gt,mran- tee certificate. OHLSEN BOYD $225.00 $175.00 1\lQp enlo111ed to •hOw dotal!. l'da:slndudo Fedora! Tar. Buy With Confidence 3 ·------~1 I Impressions Political Ideology: • • • The Losers (Continued from Page 2) Another thing that stl'Uck me most forcibly was the immatur- ity of the incoming freshmen. By Steve Dickerman This state of affairs, I soon found This is a story of a loser-a (and rightly so) and then out, was taken for granted by special type of student who plays laments bittery against \out- members of' the faculty, who con- a very special game. His cousin siders\-students n o t to his ducted their classes in the high came into public view h1 the late choosing who wish to run fo: school fashion and not in the 1940's. This \~cholar\ came to student government offiees. 'Thi~ · spirit of the old European Uni- be known to his fellows and con- is the loser, the student who versitie~. This, I soon realized, servative critics as a \tota:litar- mouths liberal sounding ends, all was due to the comparative ian liberal,\ one who ostensibly the while practicing authoritarian youthfulness of the freshmen, believed in liberal ends, though means in his daily life. These most uf whom were still in their using somewhat totalitarian are the losers who rally round: teens. There were quite a few means to achieve them. This the flags of honest liberals, pro- characters among them. Fo1· ex- title was sometimes applied to faning them, and discoloring them ample, there i::; my roommate those who were stil'l \fellow- in turn in the eyes of the student· who swears like a trooper and traveling\ with the Communists, body and the general public; per- who is incapable of making a full those who were still asleep to 1 verting the true meanings of lib- sentence without using a curse the dangers totalitarian Russia eralism and substituting instead word. presented to the Western world., a blatant hypocrisy. There is nothing much that I Two often, though, the truer I s· 'l G can say against the school. The issue involved became buried in I 1m1 ar roups professors are good, learned, and h 1 d h M d dedicated men and will go out of t e genera smears an c arges I ost stu ents are political their way to help anyone. The that seemed to almost overwhelm moderates, as are most liberals library is modern and up-to-date. honest Iihcrals. Thus, the right-~ and conservatives. One suspects The various social services are ful foe of the loser, an honest that the similarities between the liberal, stood too silent between· groups are far greater than their up to most people's expectations. the waging warfare af the ex- differences. And most students The general atmosphere of the · I 11' h 1 campus is conducive to academic tremtsts. ca mg t emse ves, to no matter, work, and the introspective stu- Today though, in spite of, or ·1 conservatives or liberals realize dent has Jackson's Garden at his perhaps because of a rising vol- th.e urgent need for the open- disposal. The students may not ume of noise from ultra-conserva- mmded search for truth. The know much about what is going tives, liberals are starting to re- right-w!ng e~trem.ist rev~lts mC!st on outside their country but that evaluate themselves and their fel- men Wlth hts artstocrattc demal is no fault of good old Union lows. Is the loser still present of those riJ\hts and duties of man which within these few weeks I on campus? Yes, as he shall al- that Amertca has fo;· s~ lo!lg h 11 ways be, because it is human And the loser, the tot~hta~wn ltb- of,vesoreth:t g~~-=n I toca~e !:3!~ nature and weakness to speak in eral, caus~s a revu)sJOn ~n most stand the Bentiment which moved good generalities, but act in very !llen by . hls gross mcons~stency; one of the alumni of this school poor specifics. mdeed hts blatant hypocrlsy. to write Union's Alma Mater. And how does the campus loser Both of .these latter groups act today? He is the \liberal\ have .much. m common, both are who attacks absurdities of the a~azmgly mse~ure and .they both extreme conservatives, chuckles m1ght well be JUdged s1ck. over Goldwater, and conveniently Considering the dangers man- cut-throats his classmates to kind faces, considering too man's make sure his own attacks and self-ignorance and his powers of chuckles are more appreciated. self-destruction, considering the This is the \scholar\ who rises in madness of the age, can any man student government meetings to stand so confident as to allow his Patronize Our Advertisers cry tears over denial of free- heritage to be profaned, no less I speech in down-state universities (Continued on Page 4) I --------·------ Our future is in the hands of men not yet hired At Western Electric we play a vital role in helping meet the complex needs of America's vast communications networks. And a career at Westem Electric, the manufacturing arm of the nation-wide Bell Telephone System, offers young men the exciting opportunity to help us meet these important needs. Today, Western Electric equipment reduces thousands of miles to fractions of seconds. Even so, we know that our present communications systems will be inadequate tomonow; and we are seeking ways to keep up with-and antici- pate- the future. For instance, right now Western Electric engineers are working on various phases of solar cell manufacture, miniaturization, data transmission, futuristic telephones, electronic central offices, and computer-controlled production lines-to name just a few. engineers. If you feel that you can meet our standards, consider the opportunities offered by working with our company. In a few short years, you will be Western Electric. Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemi- cal engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will re· celve careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Rela- tions, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when cur college representatives visit your campus. Western EJ~ctric Large parties accomodated in our RATHSKELLER Ti01~ Cenlt:w Jewelers To perfect the work now in progress and launch many new communications products, projects, procedures, and processes not yet in the mind of tnan - we need quality-minded MANUfACTURING AND SUPPlY @UNIT OF tilE lUI SYITIM Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, Ill.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore; Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. 'f.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio: Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center., Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, Ill., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distrl· uutlon centers In 33 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 BroadWay; New York 7, N. v. For reservations phone FR 4-8917 FR 4-0183

4 Losers (Continued from Page 3) the student to whom the future belongs! This is a dynamic age and solu- tions must be sought in knowl- edge, both of the old and the new. A liberal mind is man's ticket to snlvation, a liberal loser his helping hand to infamy, SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in All of us are losers in our own right, but never have we lost so much, as when we have so little faith in ourselves and our beliefs, as to allow without protest sick individuals to mouth the ideals of man's highest hopes, while wal- lowing in the mire of their own hypocrisy, naming themselves \liberals\ all the time. Liberalism Is Answer Bridge Column By F. L. Lambert Nm·th • J xxxx ., 9 xxxx + A ofo J X FtidQy, October· 2·6, 1962 ·B,ooters Falter 4-1,2-1 To Raiders, Trojans During the past week, the bed a ball headed for a Garnet union soccer team dropped two score, giving them a penalty kick decisions, one to Colgate 4-1 1 and instaed of the goaL Rolf Kasper suffered an upset at the hands of missed the kick and the efforts Wt>st East RPI 2-1. They will attempt to of the fullback paid off. Colgate Y A K ~ x x even their recOl'd at 4-4 when immediately went down the field Are the»e losers to be con- • Q Y A K J x they travel to Oneonta to face a and scored on a head by its cen- dPmnl'd'! lt matters really not, + K Q x + 10 x x powerful Hartwick squad this ter forward following a corner for they are sick. But if any con- .r. A 10 x x x x x .P. K Q x x afternoon. kick. The Garnet now fou)1d them- <lemnation a't all is deserved, it The Dutchmen traveled to selves down 4-0 with time run- must go most strongly to those South · Hamilton, N.Y. to meet the pow- ning out. who give them aid and comfo1't • 10 x x erful Red Raiders of Colgate. With about five minutes left in IJy n•maining silent to their. • 10 x x Colgate entered th~ game with a the game, co-captain. Abe Ter.pen- shame. The means of rendering • J x x x x x perfect 5-0 record and immedi- ing scoi·ed on a direct kick from · the loser innocent, is not by \\' utely showed the Union hooters thirty yards out. It was a fine :;ilencing him (although therapy N E S W why they were undefeated. Tak- shot and spoiled Colgate's bid for might be a blessing), hut by lH :3C ing the advantage early in the a shutout. Union had mahy scar~ presenting to the public and to Pass Pass 4 no T first quarter, Colgate scored two ing chances but failed .to shoot ont•self through word and deed Pass f,g j,~~~ HC goals in rapid succession by their enough as was evidenced in the artin• liheralisrn. This rna}' in- \ass left inside and center forward. sa,·es department. The Colgate flat Top & Ivy \·ulw mting for· a Goldwater or I . 1 ass Pass Pass union could hot see·m to get its goalie made only five saves com- • . a l'\orman Thomas, but let it attack moving at all in the first pared to seventeen for t:lle~\J;T.Jlion league Haarcuts . ),,. •hn·· h\' _an honc>st will and by In place of the n·gular Faculty 'admit thut, 'llll'n Professor St<•r1e l:al.f, and, after another Colgate goal·i~,. Bl'ian Barefoot.. \ : :1n honL•.-;t JU<lgenl(>nt. II Column, the Concordiensis is rull- and I I,laycd this board, I held the ;-;core midway thl'Ough the second This JH\st Tuesday,_ the Garnet ~=============:::_::-:J _______ c. _____________ ,, ning the following articlt•, sub- Wt•\t hand with the bidding shown quarter re,ulting from a goal- br.10tet~ md RPI on'\:!/l:a.rts -:li;~ld. mit ted as a Bridge Column, by aboH'. I did t·onsidt•r bidding six mouth scramble, found itself . Taking advantage ofa leaky En~ Professor F. L. Lambert of the no trump but was afraid of a dub down 3-0 at the half. gineer defense, the pooters com- Biology Department. lnsH; this fear was, however, . It was a different Union team pletely dominated play th:rough- (Author of \I Was a Teen-age Du•arj\ \The .Many Loves of Dobie Gillis\ etc.) HIGH TEST, LOW TEST, NO TEST Just the other night I was saying to the little woman, \Do you think the importance of tests in American colleges is being overemphasized?\ (The little woman, incidentally, is not, as you might think, my wife. My wife is far from a little woman. She is, in fact, almost seven feet high and heavily muscled. She is a full-blooded Chiricah.ua Apache and holds the world's hammer-throw record. The little woman I referred to is some- one we found crouching under the sofa when we moved into our apartment several years ~go, and there she has remained ever since. She never speaks, except to make a kind of guttural clicking sound when she is hungry. Actually, she is not too much fun to have around, hu:t with my wife away at track meets most of the time, at least it gives me somebody to talk to.) But I digress. \Do you think the importance of tests in American colleges is being overemphasized?\ I said the other night to the little woman, and then I said, \Yes Max, I do think the importance of tests in American colleges is being overemphasized.\ (As I have explained, the little woman does not speak, so when we have conversations, I arn forced to do both parts.) To get back to tests-sure, they're important, but let's not allow them to get too in1portant. There are, after all, many qualities and talents that simply can't be measured by quizzes- Is it right to penalize a gifted student whose giftR don't happen to be of the academic •·ariety? Like, for instunce, Gregor Sigafoos? Gregor, a freshman at the K ew Hampshire College of Tanning and Belles Lettres, has never passed a single te..\>t; yet all who know him agree that he is studded \\ith talent like a ham \\ith cloves. He can, for example, sleep standing up. He can do a perfect imitation of a sc111'let tanager. (I don't mean just do the bird calls; I mean he can fly South in the winter.) He can pick up B-B's with his toes. He can say \Toy boat\ three times fast. He can build a rude telephone out of two empty Marlboro packs and 100 yards of butcher's t\\ine. (Of all his impressive accomplishments, this last is the one Gregor likes to do best -not building the telephone, but emptying the Marlboro packs. Gregor doesn't just dump the Marlboros out of the pack. He smokes them one at a time-settling back, getting comfortable, savoring each tasty puff. As Gregor often says with a winsome smile, \By George, the makers of Marlboro took their time finding this fine flavor, this great filter, and by George, I'm going to take my time enjoying 'em!\) Well, sir, there you have Gregor Sigafoos-artist, humanist, philosopher, Marlboro :;;moker, and freshman since 1939. Will the world-so desperately in need of talent-ever benefit from Gregor's great gift:;;? AlaR, no. He is in college to stay. But even more tragic fm; mankind is the case of Anna Livia Plurabellc. Anna Livia, n classmate of Gregor's, had no talent, no gifts, no brain:>, no personality. All she had was a knack for taking tests. She would c1·n.m like crazy before a tost, always get a perfect score, and then promptly forget everything she had learned. Xaturally, she graduated with highest honors and degrees by the dozen, but t11e sad fact is that she left college no more educated, no more prepared to cope vl'ith the world, than when she entered. Today, a broken woman, she crouches Under my SOfa. © 1~02 Maxi3hulman * * * And speaking oJ' tests, we makers of Marlboro put our cigarette through an impressive number before we send it to tl1e marlcet. But ultimately, there is only one test that counts: Do IQ.!: like it? We think you will. meaningless because if there were that took the field in the third out the first half. They managed a dub loser, six clubs also could .quarter. They began to put some many shots on goal, but the in- not be made. pressure on the Raider defense · accuracy of the shots prevented a The hand above was played at the first faculty-student duplicate bridge tournament this semester. All eight pairs holding the E - W hands bid six clubs, and all made it except for one pair who made seven when the opponents failed to open diamonds. At one table where East did not and just missed scoring on sev- score. Union was given a penalty open the bidding, six no trump era! occasions. The fine Garnet kick because of pushing on the must have stood out like the pro- defense, Jed by John Nelson and part of an RPI defender,. but verbial aching .digit after West's Herm Helber, stopped any further again they failed to capitalize on opening bid of one club and East's Colgate scoring opportunities and the \sure goal\ situation as Abe jump raise to three clubs. But it the quartel' ended with the score Terpening's shot sailed over the is normally losing play not to still 3-0. Early in the fourth goal. This time the missed j:J~nal­ open on fourteen points, and any- quarter, a Colgate fullback grab- ty kick cost the Garnet a vi.etory. way six no trump was not reached. At rubber bridge the six club contract would be entirely proper, but inspection of the hands shows that six no trump ought to have .been bid at duplicate. At match point play, where a pair receives one point for each other pair with a lower score on a given hand, the Incidentally, it is improper to bid five no trump after a four no trump Blackwood bid unless the partnership holds all four aces. At least the eight E - W pairs did not violate this bidding convention. Harriers Divide Meets With Bl I additional 70 points scored for six A t• •t• By AI Starr no trump assume overwhelming C lVl lCS • • • . importance if it can be deter- 1 The Garnet cross-country team 1 mg Bob Wanamaker copped sec- mined fro~ the bidding that no (Continued from Page 3) ~ertainly tried to make Homecom- · o~d place with a time o~ 16:30 trump has nearly as good a about twice the size of the pres- mg weekend a complete success, mm. After RPI runners S1d Huff chance of making as clubs. ent one, which holds about 175 but a strong RPI squad proved and Lamar Lahr came a trio of 1 ld b 'd 1 p 'd t too much for the Dutchmen as young Dutchmen-Bill Hunt, Why then did no faculty or stu- peol? e, wou e 1 ea' · resl en they scored a 17-44 victory over Andy Carlson, and Dave Bruce. dent pair bid six no trump? I Davidso~ !lnd. ~ther members of h h U . ' d d' d am afl 'ai'd that the answer· 1 .s the adn11mstra.t10n have re~d the t e osts. mon s recor 1ppe In general, the frosh turned in I t b t w t d G d to 0-2, with a second place finish fine performances and are devel- ·pusillanimity instead of prudence repor ' u mga e an lr ner in a triangular meet, while the oping nicely under the tutelage on the part of West. And I must (Continued on Page 6) winners upped their log to 5-l. of Coach Bill Ketz. MAMA BIANCHI'S Restaurant 1135 Barrett Street Open Till 1 :00 A.M. on Weekdays end 3:00 A.M. on Friday and Saturday Nights - Free Parking - BRING YOUR DATES The outcome was never in doubt as the Engineers used their depth to good advantage, RPI First The tough 4.5 mile Union course was covered in 27:26 min. by Bill Gazda of RPI. He was followed by teammates To m Hoover, Dean Cross, and John · Stepy. Union's Gary Morris fin- ished fifth in 28:30 min. and Larry Newton, the Garnet's top runner, was sixth in 29:03 min. John Hann and Andy Warde fin- ished in a tie for tenth while ~=======================~John Sepples (12), Doug Allen · (14), and LeRoy Michaud (16) ANEW INTEREST More than academic interest for the well-rounded . .. Arrow's \Gordon Dover Club\ shirt. Com- fortable medium-point, button-down collar is softly rolled for a new but natural look. Trim placket front and plait in back make this shirt the all-round favorite. Trimly tailored specifically to fit the well- dressed active young man. 100% cotton Oxford is \Sanforized\ labeled for long-lasting fit. $5.00. were Union's other finishers. Newton laclted the drive he dis- played against Vermont and is a far better runner than his sixth place finish indicates, but he must turn in steadier pe1formances if the Dutchmen are to be in con- tention in their remaining meets. On the brighter side, the strong Garnet frosh squad continued in its \\inning ways by whipping the RPI yearlings 21-36. Union's talented Dave Ring again led all finishers as he covered the frosh course in 15:41 min. Ring, who belittled his chances before the race, was never pushed and won by 49 seconds. Tl1e fast develop- SE~ECA FR7-2155 1 585 Van Vranken Ave. Laundry Dry Cleaning Chinos Shirts FAST & DEPENDABLE SERVICE 0 NEW 0 Coin Operated WASHERS - and DRYERS - Frosh Beat Lenox The frosh were back in aetion Wednesday as they hosted the Lenox School. The all-victorious frosh upped their record to 3-0 as they scored a 26-33 victory on the windswept Union cow·se. Union's Dave Ring was the in- · dividual winner of the race as he also scored his third victory of the season. Ring covered the 3 mile course in 15:21 min. as he again w0n handily. Tom Graesser of Lenox was second in 16:12 mirt. followed by teammate George Janstram in 16:21 min. Bob Wan- amaker of Union was fourth and ' · other Garnet finishers included Dave Bruce (6) 1 Jan Warner (7),. Dave Volkman (8), Tom Sala- mone (9), Andy Carlson (10), Bill Stoner (11), Bill Hunt (12), and Joel King (13). Both varsity and frosh har• riers are in action tomorrow when they meet a strong Colgate squad. The Red Raiders have one of the best cross-country teams in the East, and the Garnet should be in for a long afternoon. The unblemished frosh record may also be in danger as the Colgate team should prer;ent a strong challenge to the young Dutch- men. Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Train Station) ....,.:..---~--~--~' Save On Our Own Olde Village Private Label Spii'its: We Deliver Free FR 4-6846 Dut4 Ver: B Remer ton. Yot the next in them Bob De Morgan, Hurlbut, a matte the who football upset la: they be in doin~ 1962 wi: In gc between Wesleya said th~ football. you car played to the c ing the Dutchm The de tackling sharp.' weaknel pass d kilter, l last wet On o: the mar 163 yai lar 87 a kicko a brilli: not COUl he didr himself. of his : end-zon points, in the l led the holes. I- pass fr whole, The l Dutchbt took th nine pl kick w8 ter end early iJ ing the play. J was fo and 1 Hrdlick handed up a l: all the score 1 ~ M

kick olgate field s cen- them- run- in from a fine for scor~ shoot the com- :fi,~;ld. com- in- nted a the but on Abe er the p~nal­ sec- 16:30 Huff trio of Hunt, Bruce. in devel~ action ed the to 3-0 on course. in- as he of the 3 mile again of min. George b Wan- and (7),. Sala- 0), Bill ., and har• 1 one teams should The 1 may strong Dutch- OR.~ tion) Friday, October 26, 1962 Garnet Gridders Smash ··:!;-.,· .•.. ',. Y-:.·· Coach Joe Maras watches intently from the sidelines as Union rolls up the score against R.P.I. Sophs Pave Garnet Success By Richard Erdoes The Garnet finally garnered its firot grid victory of the '62 sea- son as they clobbered the Engi- neers form Troy, 44-6. Led by ECAC quarterback Dave Eales and a host of sophomores, the . Marasmen were off and running from the opening whistle ao they completed scoring drives in every period before the jubilant Home- coming crowd. · The Dutchmen began their scor- ing early in the first stanza, as oophumure fullback Steve Hop- kins blasted off tackle, got key ulocks f. rum SO!Jhumures Juhn I. Super and Jue Sawyer, ami gal- 1 loped seventy yards into paydirt. Art Marshall, whe has led the Garnet rushing attack until his recent shoulder injury, then boot- ed the first of four conversions · making the score 7-0. Defense Solid ECAC Names Eales At QB D . utchboys Top TJ.oblnrt Seeks RPI received the kickoff, but IJ.4 .,._ the Garnet forward wall stood DAVE EALES fast, as they did throughout the. ------~------ ver. mont • 2·8-20·· p,;___.'St \IT.;CtOr'\\' afternoon,and the Engineers were , \I • l' \ J forced to punt. With Eales at the· Union College quarterback Dave helm the Dutchmen quickly went Eales repeated his 1961 distinc- By Charles Sinclair Hobart College will seek its into high gear. On second down tion ·of being named the week's Remember the name Terry Dut- first football victory in two sea- the Sayville Slinger fiTed to end, outstanding .eastern small college ton. You'll be hearing it often in sons tomorrow against the Dutch- Soper for a first down. Then, aft-· signal-caller, as determined by the next few years. While you're men from Union. er Hopkins picked up five yards Eastern Collegiate Athletic Con- in the mood for remembering, try Battling a team that looked· on a drive through the lines, Eales: ference. Eales won the honor for Bob DeMichele, Ray List, Tom strong last week against R.P.I., sent Soper to the RPI thirty-two. his outstanding performance in Morgan, Mike O'Connor, Mark the Statesmen still find themselves yard line with another aerial. The the Garnet's 44-6 victory over Hurlbut, and Tom Hitchcock. As hopeful on the basis of statistics. senior quarterback promptly cap- RPI last Saturday. a matter of fact, just memorize Hobart has averaged 171 yards ped the drive romping into the· Soper Also Honored the whole roster of the freshman gained per game to 163 for its end zone for the second Union The award was never in doubt football team. They pulled off an opponents, even though the tally. The two point passing con- in the minds of Union College upset last Friday afternoon, when Statesmen have been thrice de- version, Eales to end Rudy Um- fans., as Eales was good even for they beat Vermont 28-20, and, feated. Two of Hobart's losses scheid, on a faked kick, was good. Eales. The senior co-captain, off in doing so, picked up the first w~re at the hand~ . of teams that As the second quarter began, to a slow start this season, bounc- 1962 win on Alexander field. this week are still undefea~eed. the Engineers were in possession ed back to a performance that was In going over the differences Both Roche~ter and Hamilton on their own twenty-three yard. nothing short of brilliant. He between last week's game and the have unblemished records. Y~t line, and the Dutchmen held them completed 12 of 17 passes for 220 Wesleyan game Coach Allison I only a two touchdown margm right there, forcing a punt. Saw- yards, including touchdown tosses said that last ~eek \We played in each of those games defeated yer received it and drove to the of 14 and 49 yards. At least two football.\ When a coach says that, the Statesmen. Hobart's other Union forty-eight before he was of Eales' aerials were on their you can be sure that his team loss was an 8-3 squeaker to brought down. Hopkins picked up mark but were dropped by the played a good game. According Upsala. three and from there Eales engi- Garnet receiver, one of these oc- to the coach, Union stopped mak- Second Half Fadeout neered another pass studded score, curred in the end zone, depriving ing the mistakes which cost the completing lofts to Dennis Riva,. the 6'1\ field general of a third Dutchmen the Wesleyan game. The big question about the Brendan Hutchinson, and finally six-point pass. In addition, he ran The defense, led by the hard Hobart team is not whether it to Soper for the score. Marshall for a score, lugging the leather tackling DeMichele, was extremely can win, but whether it can du- followed with the one point con- 33 yards after seeing his receiv- sharp. With O'Connor at end, that plicate the football it plays in version making the scare 22-0. ers covered downfield. The Say- weakness was plugged. Only the the first half. Hobart held a su- Union dominated the play for ville Slinger threw. for a pair. of pass defense was still out of perior Rochester squad scoreless the remainder of the half, put two point convers10ns, roundmg kilter, but it looked better than for three periods and half of the could not muster another tally. out his spectacular after noon. last week. final quarter before two quick Fred Dill made a brilliant punt Soper Also Honored On offense, Terry Dutton was Yellow Jacket touchdowns broke return of seventy-eight yards, Eales' prime target 1 JohnSope~, the man. He personally picked up open the game. carrying the hide into the end won honorable mention recogm- 163 yards, including a spectacu- The Statesmen led 13-12 at the zone. A clipping penalty, how- tion on the ECAC team on the lar 87 yard touchdown jaunt on midpoint against Hamilton. Up- ever nullified the play. basis of his fine offensive and de- a kickoff return. Terry averaged sala gained only 20 yards on the The Garnet received the kick- fensive play. The. sure-fingered a brilliant 8.15 yards per carry, ground and one yard in the air off opening the second half and s 0 ph o more was also elected not counting the return. However, against the Statesmen in the .first began a fifty-eight yard touch- \Dutchman of the Week\ by the he didn't have the spotlight to half of their game. down drive, Eales and sophomore coaching staff for his work \above himself. Al Hrdlicka boomed one If Hobart can conquer the hex fullback Hutchinson each drove and beyond the call of duty.\ of his kickoffs into the Vermont of the second-half doldrums, the for short gains and a pass to Eales who attained ECAC team end-zone, and kicked four extra Statesmen should eliminate them- Soper netter a first down. After membe;ship last season, joins points, while doing a good job selves from contention for \most a short loss Hutch was again call- center Pete Wenger as Union Col- in the backfield. List and Morgan consecutive losses in New York ed on and slashed through the lege representatives on the week- led the line, opening up huge State\ trophy. R. P. I. with 2 3 line for ten. Chick Swain plung- ly all-star sqUads. holes. Hurlbut caught an 82 yard straight losses, is current cham- (Continued on Page 6) -Dave Thurston. pass from Tom Hitchcock. As a pion in this league. whole, the team fimilly clicked. The game looked good for the Dutchboys from the start. They took the opening kickoff and used nine plays to score. Hrdlicka's kick was good, ~nd the first quar- ter ended 7-0. Vermont struck early in the second quarter, ply- ing the airways for a 55 yard TD play. An attempt for two points was foiled. Vermont kicked off, and Dutton went to work. Hrdlicka took the kick, and handed off to Terry, who picked up a block at the 35 and went all the way. Hrdlicka made the score 14-6. ~ r -*¥ sa Although they had some trouble moving the ball in the third per- iod, the Dutchboy defense proved to be great, holding Vermont at the goal line or near it several times. The only question mark seems to be the pass defense, which yielded 160 yards. Much work is being done to tighten it up, and all should be well when the team goes to Rochester to- morrow. Rochester is rated on a par with Vermont, so the game will be a good one. In view of that, there's no prediction from this quarter, but hopes are high. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNEll GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A;M. MIDTOW:N BARBER SHOP 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care Volunteer Group Leaders for Carver Community Center 2 afternoons a week Phone FR 7-1145 WRUC Seeks an advertising manager for exclusive Schenectady coverage on 15% commission basis. Contact: PAUL NEUHOFF Dl 6-9776 Upper Union Street-Presents Lambert Hendricks and Fri. & Sat. Nights 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. Bavone -also- Sunday Night 8 P.M. to 2 A.M. GEORGE MONTERO JAZZ TRIO Nightly, 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. at 1·61 7 Union Street 5 RPI, 44-6 Fred Dill rolls out for a gain in last Saturday's football game. Football Statistics Carries NetYd. Ave. Hopkins, hb ........ 14 111 7.9 Stevens, qb .......... 10 65 6.5 Hannan, qb .......... 2 12 6.0 Marshall, hb ........ 16 89 5.5 Hutchinson, fb. ... 14 74 5.3 Swain, fb .............. 25 111 4.4 Eales, qb .............. 24 81 3.4 Burgwald, hb ...... 18 42 3.3 Gilmartin, hb........ 6 17 2.8 Dill, qb .................. 9 11 1.2 Shaw, hb .............. 1 1 1.0 Sbrega, hb ............ 3 0 0.0 McCarthy, hb ...... 1 0 0.0 Sawyer, hb .......... 3 -2 -0.7 Union totals ........ 146 612 4.2 Opp. totals .......... 174 704 4.0 Passing: Sbrega, hb ........... .4 37 Swain, fb ............ 2 3 Hutchinson, hb .... l 28 Bowman, e .......... 3 22 Burgwald, hb ...... 3 16 Panoff, hb ........... :2 15 McCarthy, hb ...... 1 13 Riva, e .................. 2 11 Wilcox, bb .......... l 10 Gilmartin, hb ...... 2 4 Marshall, hb ........ 2 0 Dill, lib .................. 2 -3 Scoring: T C.RP C.K FG P Umscheid, e ...... O 2 0 0 4 Stevens, qb ...... 1 0 0 0 6 Sawyer, hb ........ 1 0 0 0 6 Hutchinson, fb 1 0 0 0 6 Burgwald, hb .... 1 0 0 0 6 Hopkins, hb ...... 1 0 0 0 6 Sbrega, hb ........ 1 0 0 0 6 Eales, qb .......... l 0 0 0 6 Soper, e ............ 1 0 0 0 6 Marshall, hb .... O 0 4 1 7 Union totals .... 8 2 4 161* Opp. totals .... 15 4 IJ 1'106 Times K. Y ds. K. Ave. Rushing: Att. Comp. Y ds. Int. Eales, qb .......... 56 28 292 5 Stevens, qb ...... 16 8 41 0 Hannan, qb ...... 3 2 20 0 Dill, hb ............ 7 2 19 1 Union totals .... 82 40 3.72 6 Opp. totals ...... 68 28 379 2 Bowman, e...... 5 148 29.6 Burgwald, hb .. 16 475 29.1 Dill, qb ............ 5 124 24.8 Union totals .... 26 747 28.6 Opp. totals ...... 16 589 36.8 Receiving: Caught Yds. Gained Sawyer, hb .......... 3 65 Umscheid, e ........ 6 62 Soper, e ................ 6 61 EXCLUSIVE • • • BUT NOT That's ~ 164 Jay St. Suggestion: ' SWEATERS POLISHED COTTONS IVY SLACKS CAMPUS OUTER WEAR ADLER SOCKS Show Union Identification Card and Get Exclusive 10% OFF on All Merchandise Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours D~ily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES For three Generations ••• Those Who Know .•• Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Manriue B. Granbart & Sons ''Jay Street Jewelers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE .AND GOOD JEWELRY

6 Council • • • Williams College before it had de- cided to give up ~!together on the system. These changes were no discriminatiory clauses and 100% New Election Schedule (Continued from Page 1) bidding. Mr. Carz;nen pointed out, defend the extra time, pointed out. however,that Williams had not' . . that the democratic process was a done away with fraternities com-. A cha~ge m the proc~dUl'e for slow one but was, he believed, a pletely and had had a different, the electwn of .Class Officers flDd g ood one. reason for exteNding a blanket' Student Council Representatives bid. · ha_s. been announced. pnder the Dr. Haines, assistant to the ol'lgmal schedule ff d President, deplored the lack of The creation of a strong inde- · . . ' 0 ICers an careful study shown so far. Es- pendfent gt:o~p to comd pete Wld •bth • ~if~~~sJ~\a~h~e~a~e:·~i~e~The b;:; peciaHy criticized was the fact the ratermtles, was a vocate Y · schedule calls f · th · · I t' · · f that no first hand observers have Professor Henry Butzel. He: th . 01 e f elwn ° been Sent to School ·s wht'ch al1·eady thought it was the college's re- • 1 e ~epres.entahve~ to ol o_w tl_le \ · · · 'd . 1 . f . · e ectwn of the off1cers. Thts w1ll have the plan in operation, such ~ponstbthty to provi e a P aee or! allow unsuccessful candidates for as Smith or Colby Colleges. He mdependents to go. Butzel re- class offi t . f asked for more time off for the caUefd his !3Xperfienhce hrelating .to tativ~. T~! ;ch:~leorf!~p~ffl~~; faculty, contrasting the fifteen th.e ormahon °. t e onors pto- • elections matches the schedule h t Chl .ng load on many Un gr.am. At that time, every super- preVI'ousl t d· th . 1 . ·t· f our · ea · · · - ior student interviewed believed: Y pos e '· e e ec ~on ° ion professors with the six hours his fraternity to be anti-intellec-. representatn:es wtll occ\!-11' m the of many professors at Bowdoin t 1 · . week followmg the offtcer elec- College. Haines also called for ua · tions. The new schedule is as more high level committees . in- Unlimited C(mtact , follows: stead of the abundance of tlme consuming small groups studying Will. G~ant suggested that there. MONDAY, Oct. 29, 4:30 PM: .Fr.lday, October 26, 1962 I be held shortly:, enqin_g with a meeting of the Board of Trustees I on N ovemb.er 3, After these meet• By Dave Liden ings, the ·;financial. a~pec~s o;f the Union's freshman hooters push- (Conti~ued from Page 4 l . proposed projects will have been ed their reco1•d to three wins and · . . . discussed, arid perhaps definite two losses Saturday as they out- have not yet heard from them· plans and aims wHl 'have been played Northwood P1•ep School, about it. ·adopted. 4-1. This was a victory Coach It is possible, acco1·ding to Me- · Turner was· after· since it was Ilwaine, that the cost of reno- Northwood's game last year. The vating Nott Memorial would be S team showed lots of hustle which t . f t' t th d t . ummer seems ind1'cat1've of al·l· • the fres.h- ou 0 propor Ion ° · e a van - · . · .. ages of utilizing its space, par- Work roan squads this year. The game ticularly in cannection with the was in the hands of the Garnet ·Mountebanks. A professional col- (Continued from Page 1) · team almost exclusively, except ·lege store designer has been con- atory. They will also hear i~c­ for Northwood's one goal in the suited as has a heating expert; tures by outstanding scientists last quarter. Union's forward no estimates of the cost of their· and engineers in the Capitol Dis- line was very strong and was jobs have yet been made. Once trict and will take field trips supported by some very good . the renovation is undertaken, if to the }lei;iearch Laboratory, the kicking from the backfield. it is, the initial problems involved, !{,nollE; Atomic Bower Laboratory, Revercomh Scores will create other Pl 1 0bl~ms, form- and other scentific installations in ing a sort of chain reaction and the area. • Bl I Vol. Ll The would h to subm relatively small problems. be unltm1ted contact so as to re- . . . Released time is a nice dream lieve the pressure of the two week. Pettttons. of c~nd1dates. for according- to Baker, hut he felt rushing period. It was made dear; class offJCers, wtth the signa- ~ ld b k d that if fraternities were opened tures -of at least forty ( 40) that the problem cou . e wor. e each aftemoon for visits, a \snow: members of the Class of 1966, out within the present teachmg J'ob\ would· be close to impossible. •. due at the Dean of Students schedules. According to him, some Offi faculty members were quite will- Thus rushees would have the op-. ce. ing to work on their own time for portunity to make a judicious TUESDAY 0 t 30 neff:~~k gS~ud t~': ?~ t~~ ~~~t demanding further expenditures, The selected s.tlldents ~will live quarter, the Dutchmen got hot,. There will be a great deal more· in the college dormitories; and ·eat rallied, and scored off the foot of information to give on these and in the c()Uege dini:ng ·room. wing John Fuller. Union again related plans inside of the next Planned 1·ecreation in(!ludes. trip!! pressured the Northwood goal but month. Several important meet- to the Berkshire Music FestiVal failed to hit the mark. In the sec- ings of the various committees at Tanglewood, and to leading ond quarter Henry Revercomb responsible for campus construe- local summer stock theatres. · came through with Union's sec- tion and maintenance Policies wiil This. will be the program's, third ond goal. The Dutchmen charged year. Also planned for thi$ sum~ again led by Dan Caye who, after ion 0-Colga,te 3, Union 3 Roches- mer is an Economics Fe}lowship missing the first time, shot one ter 2, Union 4-Northwood 1. Their. program, to be attended .by high home for number three. The next game is Tuesday against school economics and·· soCial Northwood g·oalie was kept busy Hudson VaHey at Union. studies teachers. · in the third quarter. A kick by , ters an< or somE ment w whether any wr Chol ·ce, contrai'Y to the guessing ' c • : love of the school. 12 4 30 PM game now used. noon • : or 5-7 PM President Davidson later stated his approval of Haines sugges- A modern spokesman for com- tions, mentioning that there was radeship stated his firm belief in 1 a possibility that some faculty the system. He also mentioned members would be relieved of that sixteen out of the seventeen their duties this summer so as to houses are held together by broth- work on the new calendar more erhood. He attacked the I.F.C. of the past but mentioned that the • Will Grant, mentioned that the present one was different and Dave Holdridge started a mass scramble and when the dust Mother Ferro's Restaurant , faculty was unbalanced - that foresaw a great potential in this they were too unaware of prob- organ of fraternity unanimity. Primary Election of Class Officers: Primary elections will be held, if necessary, to reduce the numbers of candidates to those permitted on the final bal- lot, i.e., two for each office .. Resident students will vote be- tween 5:00 and 7:00 P.M. in the West College Lounge; non-res- ·ident students will vote at the Dean of Students' Office be- tween 12:00 noon and 4:30 P.M. cleared the Dutchmen found themselves with their fourth goal, thanks to Caye. Northwood's only goal came in the last quarter on their third attempt at the Un- ion goal. Specializing in Italian • American .food !ems outside of their divisions, 1 1 • t d As a measure to improve the whereupon Fin {e stem sugges ·e fraternities academic standings, that we send the students home Coach Turner felt that Caye, right wing Fuller, Tom Hutton, Dave Holdridge, and Ray Teed all played an excellent game, and he thinks that Coach Witzel will be very happy to get these fellows next year. · Disr:ount for Union Students 20c on .the dollar for the winter semester and have Professor Nelson suggested stiffer the faculty take the seminars. minimum academic requirements. THURSDAY, Nov. 1: PIZZA Edward Skloot stated that the Daryl Coons added that fraterni- discussion was becoming inappro- ties with financial insolvencies priate to the purposes of the ~on- should not be helped by the col- ference and that most of the news lege. Thus, the unfit fraternities aired, should have been saved for would not continue to propagate Class Meeting. The Class of. 1966 will meet in Memorial Chapel. The final candidates, for the class officers will be in- troduced and the candidates for President will address the class. The results of the freshman team so far this year are: Union 0-R.P.I. 6, Union 7-Darrow 1, Un- Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1 J l5 Barrett St. elsewhere. The topic was then more incompentence. changed to fraternities. President of the Interfraternity Council, Ken Payment, asked for specific criticism fro~ the facu~ty and not for a categor1cal \abohsh them\ attitude. He wanted st:~g­ gestions as to how fraternities could be better integrated into the Pollack Favors Frats MONDAY, Nc;~v. 5, 9:00 AM Dean 0. Edward Pollack de- 4:30 PM or 5:00-7:00 PM fended fraternities pointing to the Election of Class Officers: basic drive for identification as Resident students will vote be- their reason for existence. He tween 5 :00 and 7:00 P.M. in questioned whether Harvard or the West College Lounge; non- Princeton who abolished fraterni- resident students will vote be- ties had not an equivalent prob- t 9 00 A M d Lf. 30 p ·M aims of the college. Barry Kaplan, who was an in- dependent for a year, blamed the fraternities, and, therefore the <'ollege for rejecting 3:l'1c of its freshman class. According to him, these 33':'<- are the people who lem .. ~th clubs. ween : · · an _; · ·· · w • at the Dean of Students' Office. Finkelstein asked Pollack if he had been in any of Harvard's TUESDAY, Nov. 6, 9 ,AM-4:30PM · clubR. The dean said that he hadn't but that he had been on the cam- Petition forms for candidates need fraternity life moRt. for Student Council Represent- puPollack stated that the increas- ative available at Dean of Stu- ing solvency of the fraternities dents Office. Bob Skloot call('d for lJnion to use the solutions advocated by was proof of their improvement. WEDXESDA Y, Xov. 7, 4:30 PM: Varsity Football Sentinar (Continued from Page 5) Is Held ed for two and another first down, and then picked up five on the next· play. The RPI line bore down temporarily and th1·ew \People fight not for a symbol, Eales for a big twenty yard loss, but to preserve their way of life,\ but a screen pass to Swain on the asserted Sean O'Faolain. next play recovered the lost At an informal meeting with ground and placed the pigskin on Professors Carl Niemeyer, John the Engineers eleven yard line, Bradbury, Samson Ullman, and setting up a TD jaunt by Hutch- Godman Hislop, also attended by inson. Again the extra point was fifteen students, O'Faolain added booted by Marshall. that people often do not under- For the remainder of the third stand the issue at hand in their period the ball was moved by t' · h h · 1 both teams, but neither could sus- preoccupa wn Wit t etr persona · problems. The students differed tain a TD march. In the fit·st few in their interpretations of the plays of the final stanza, however, present popular attitude towards the Garnd ag<lin heggn to mon~ the eritical international situation. goalwanl. Starting 011 their ov.-n Some maintained inward directed fifteen, rum; Ly Eales and Swain preoccupation was dominant, rapidly brought the ball into Tro- others felt that national social jan territory· A thirty yard conscience was all important. heave from Eales to Sa\\·yer ac· counted for another six-pointer. Original Sin A pass to Umscheid was good for the two-point convet•sion. Other topics discussed at the The Garnet's Lid for a shutout meeting ranged from original sin was crushed, however, on the en- to the Theater of the Absurb to suing kickoff, as Bill Edwards, the problems of nuclear warfare. RPI's star hack, took Marshall's · According to O'Faolain, the boot on his own fifteen and raced Theater of the Absurd as exem- eight-five yards for the Engineers plified in the writings of Genet, lone tally. Fred Dill intercepted Albee, and Becket is based upon Ken Hoffman's pass attempt for a chaotic view of society. These the converRion. authOrs totally neglect reality and The Dutchmen lwunced right thus the playgoer gains no sense back again though, as they took of identification with the char- the RPI kickoff and, this time un- acters portrayed. As a result, der the guidance of sophomore their points are not related to quarterback Joe Stevens, drove anything that is true. for their final score of the day. S Stevens did a fine job in running Questions alinger's Popularity the offense and rushed for over Certain authors who are popu- thirty yards himself, including lar in America, such as Salinger the one-yard plunge for the TD, and Golding, greatly interested which was followed by Marshall's O'Faolain because of the great extra point kick. esteem which many young people The game was the highest scor- accord them. This admiration ing effort the Garnet has pro- somewhat bewildered him, and he duced in at least six years, as questioned the audience. The gen- . well as one of the finest offensive eral response was that these and defensive efforts in a long authors reflected the uncertainty time. The Dutchmen gained a to- of the times and that the char- tal of 517 yards and only yielded acters in their novels experienced 139. :J.56 of the Garnet gains a similar feeling of \groping\ to came via their air attack, with that experienced by the students. Eales hitting on 12 of 17 for 220 Following a heated segment of of those yards. The Garnet de- the disctission, O'Faolain ex- fense deserves a pat on the back pressed admiration for the Union also as they held Rl'l to only five students' ability to discuss and first downs for the afternoon. The diSG1lSS intelligently, ideas at a contest effectively ~ispelled any high: level. doubts as to the advisability of ·Martin Jay served as moderator using such a great number of for the meeting which was the sophs in games also,. especially first of several meetings between with thirty-four points credited the student body and this year's directly to them. Phi Beta Kappa Lecturer. Petitions of candidates for Rep- resentative, with the signatureR of a least forty ( 40) members of the Class of 1966, due at the Dean of Students' Office. THURSDAY, Nov. 8, 12-Noon- 4:30 PM or 5:00-7:00 PM: Primary Election. of Student Council Representatives: The permissible number of candi- dates on the final ballot is eight (8). Voting procedure is the same as for the primary elec- · tion of Class Officers. MONDAY, Nov. 12, 9:00AM. 4 :30 PM or 5:00-7:00 PM. Election of Student Council :Representatives: Voting proce- ·due is the same as for the elec- tion of Class Officers. Mermen Begin Practice· Tomorrow marks the first of- ficial practice for the Union swim- ming team. Coach Tony Turner will greet what is e:irpected to he a large turnout of candidates at 4:00 p.m. The Garnet wiil be at a slight disadvantage since most of Union's opponents have been practicing since October 1\5. How- ever, pre-season forecasts indi- cate a good season as the mermen seek to improve on last year's 7-4 record. The main reason for this optim- ism is the return of lettermen John Boles, Kal Schneider, and Will Grant, each of whom set in- dividual records for the Garnet last year. Although the squad lost Captain Dave Henderson, Eric Teicholtz, Jerry Bock, and Steve Zuckerman through gradu- ation, the team will be bolstered by the addition of several mermen who were members of last year's frosh team. Outstanding among these are Fletcher Espenscheid, former All American high school swimmer, Phil Evans., Jim Gar- ~ison, Bill Schauer, and John Heckler. · Union's schedule includes such perennial powers as Williams, NYU, and Hamilton and chal• lenging squads from Wesleyan, I Buffalo, and Trinity. The Dutch- men, however, have the abiilty to. pr~sent stiff competition for all of these teams and should emerge victorious in a good number of· their meets. ~··_ :-:-. -:- ... :··:··.·,·. ·.--:.;· .-.-:-. . -::- :..- ···--:··-- •.• fol' a life of pride and pul'pose Among the young people being graduated from college in these times, there are some who think and feel-perhaps a little more deeply than the others-about the world we live in, the future we face. They ask, \How can I make my career really meaningful? More than just personally rewarding?\ And many of today's most successful young people are finding a fulfilling !lllswer to these questions as officers on the Aerospace Team ... the United States Air Force. They can tell you that no career could better combine the oppor- tunity for achievement-and the deep inner .-·-·. ··=···· ~- ., . . ·5 ,, ~-:.::-:; ... · . l:} . ~~- : ~ ! -~ satisfaction of knowfug that they are helpihg 1 preserve the very future of America. ·~ How can you become an Air Force Officer? ,',. I ,, I If you are a college senior and not currently , enrollecl in ROTC, Air Force Officer Training; School provides an opportunity to quaijfy fon. a wide variety of career fields. The graduate of!! this three-month course receives a commission:~' as a second lieutenant. As the Air Force·;. •J continues its technological advance, officers/ with college training will move into positions r of increasing importance. · For full information-including the opportunity .. to earn graduate degrees at Air Force expense•J -see the Air Force Selection Team when it·n visits your college, visit your local Air For~¥~ Recruiting Office, or write: Air Force Offic~r.~ Career Information, Dept. SC2l0, Box 80S,.r New York 1, New York. · i U.S.AiP FOI'Cfi%, FOR AMERICA'S FUTURE AND YOUR OWN ••• JOIN THE AEROSPACE TEAM. clauses. The m David Scl lution pa' years age in oppos and reque to attemJ the next was stat« two hou~ have thes Fr Opposi1 Brian :M that the bond WRE tion. An the IFC, unwarrar sides, it least one tion had to abolisr at the r that it w Howar• issue wa yond sirr: . This viev chet whc could not in light o South. The II !\etters 1 Keating rights pi su Siege\, · arship C · a poll oj wards a the frate prove th . motion 1 cup to 1: class th proveme: from th• mester. at the c be retire the Bro' Leona: Constitu give the resentat' voting l tabled f• A sta held at houses t 9:30 to Jap: ] 'Jihe J be feat show th' ber 2, 1 room 2: nee ring Ugets from J~ cept ant eral fe2 Because tic forn used to tions, tl Am eric~ fting. ( Then peasant period • are cor greed; ( while t mighty to be t The pe; comes ' an entic to be a a brief a fraw wife is is mad« The: uing ar Thougr \T.ea H the fil meanin

