,, 1962 with a ;rustees e meet• o;f the ve been 1 definite re been i' )lk 1) . !ar iec- dentists tol Dis- d. trips •ry, the )ratory, tions in vill live a:p.d ·ea,t ·room. ~s. trips Pestival leading :es. t' s· tliii-d is sum~ l:Owship , by hi~h SOCla~ ··: CUBAN BLOCKADE Page 2 Founded at Un'ion College 1n 1877 Vol. 92 ....... No. 7 · SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 19611-. LF.C. Defeats Clause CheCk ..... Freshmen To Elect Library ·Receives The Interfraternity Council defeated a motion which. Officers Donation would have requjred the seventeen fraternities at .Union Freshman elections will come By Peter Milsky to submit for inclusion in the IFC log their national char- to a climax: this Monday· evening d 1 1 t 't t\ • A gift of <1!38,000 has been giv- ters an. oca cons I u lOllS with the final voting :for class 'I' · en to the lJmon College Library or some other legal state- F' • officers. Primaries held this past l:SOOK lrund. 'l'he gut, oequeatneu ment which would state · rate·rntty Monday·cut thefieldofcandidates to the cortege ny lJr. James 'Wm- whether the fraternity had · · · · · from a total of eighteen for the g;ate, w1H oe auded to the Class . four offices to eight. There were oi ''d7 endowment !und. any written discri.trunatory [ p six freshmen running for the pres- clauses. rese·fl. . ts idential position, and four each ' Wingate, who was a member of f th th 't' b f th the class oJ: l!llol7, was heau of the The. motl .on was pr· oposed by o e o er pos11ons e <Jte e n· 1. • • . lY.lotion .Plcture .l:'roducers ana • Is- Davl .d Sche1'c.het, who c1'ted a reso- pnmanes. H • tributors Bureau of l:;e1t-Censor- lution passed by the council three · onorof'llr. tum . Still running for office are ship <luring t.he l9:1U's. He was a years ago which placed that body a. Jack Seifert and Charles Gamba- y ::it t l ·n oppos1.t1'on to d1'scrimination, curtta for ·.the presidency, Carl · menrber OJ. t.he l'4ew ork a e 1 .!:Soard of Hegents and was ::>cne- and requested the houses involved By Da·vid Volkman Axlerod and Joel King for the neetady County ~uperintendent ot to attempt to eliminate them in vice presidency, Steve Dubansky :::ichool~ !rom l~OU-llJ1 7 . He re- the next two or three years. It An attempt is being made to and George Ludwig II for treas- eetved an M.A. degree from Union was stated at the meeting that bridge the claimed chasm which urer, and Jeffrey Ratner and Bob m 11127 and. an L . .ti.lJ. d:gree 111 two housef) on the c!J,mpus still finds fraternities on one side and· Lisk for secretary. 1 ~ 47 . have these restrictive clauses. the majority of the~ faculty on Yesterday evening Memorial thtl other. Phi Sigma Delta is Chapel was the scene of addresses . General Purpose Fund Free Choice Desired embarking on the sec.;ond year of given by the presidential candi- . Following his retirement from i Opposition W:;J.S expressed by a pr?gra;p which it calls its \Hon- dates to the members of the the motion picture industry he be- Brian McDol,lald, who claimed oraTrhmm. . t f . \t freshman class. Both Seifert and came the rtrst president of the that the basis of the fraternal is program consis .s o mvl - Gambacurtta presented their ,plat- :::Jchenectady ()ounty Library, and bond was free chqice or associa- ing monthly, various professors to forms. The remaining candidates served from 1948-1954. He was . A t' th t f give a half hour talk on a topic for office were .present but did· . 11 -v 1 ·ng 1 ·n Schenectady when he dl'ed tlon. ny ac Ion on . e .par o f h' h · Thi \nf 1 1 the IFC, he claimed, would be an. 0 1 ~ c olCe. d ·d· bs 1 orma ecd- not speak. The speeches by the on November 3, 1961. I U nwarranted interference.. Be- ture IS precee e y supper, an . presidential hopefuls were limited 'f followed by a discussion about the to seven minutes apiece. The addition of Wingate's g1 t sides, it was pointed out that at. talk between the ;fraternity mem- This past week Gambaeurtta oto the Class of '97 endowment l east one of the houses in ~'~ues- f F h f d \ll ·k 't th largest of \' hers and the pro essor. or eac sent to each freshman a news- un · wr · · m?. ·e 1 e · tion had made a serious attempt k Ph' ,. d t h u · ' · ately 43 endow spea :er 1 l:hg ona es to t e letter containing relevent news n1on s approx1m . - to abolish its discriminatory ~lause library fifteen dollars worth of and an editorial section. Gam- ed book f1mds. Of these funds at the national convention, and k 1 • h · · 1 f d t 'buted boo s of the ecturer s c mce. bacurtta hopes to modify the pres- seven are c ass un s con r1 that it was under considerati0n. · · · · ·d· f t th ll b \er f a Accordmg to the 'pres1 ent o ent Rushing Rules so as to allow o · e co · ege ·. Y memv s 0 Howard Siegel stated that the Phi Sig, Dave Schiechet, Pro- more freshmen-fraternity contact gl'a:duating class. Most of the issue was a moral one, and be- fessor Finkelstein suggested to during the first semester. He others were contributed by indi- yond simple pragmatic sanctions. one of his pupils 'last year that also plans to organize a Fresh- vidua.ls. This view was seconded by Schei- some measures be taken to better man Council to advance freshman The class of '97 fund is a gen- chet who declared that the lFC the feelings of teachers towards interest in various fields. eral purpose endowment fund. The could not continue this hyprocrisy, fraternities and inCl'ease the in- Seifert plans to start a fresh- interest e::n·ned on this money may in light of the developments in the . tellectual connotations of fratern- man communications committee to be used by the library to pur- South. ities in the minds of the faculty. clear all material to be posted chase books in any field or to pur- The IFC has in the past sent At a Phi Sigma Delta meeting on a special glass encased bulletin chase improvements such as addi- l'etters t;o Senators Javits and this suggestion was brought up,· board; the committee will weed tional library equipment. Man.y Keating supporting their civil and the idea of an \Honorarium\ out the pertinent from the inele- of the endowment funds are spe- rights platform. evolved. vant. He also hopes to arxange cific. The money earned on these This concept was not at all two dances with Skidmore and must be used to purchase boo~s Stag Parties Tonight anomalous since many fn,tterni- hire buses for the transportation only in one specifield field of h S h 1 . ties already entertain pl!Ofessors of the girls to and from Sara- study. Siegel, Chairman of t e · c 0 - for supper and hold ~fter dinner toga. Correction of the inJ·ustices Last year the library's endow- arship Committee,. has conducted d' · A d' t s h\ · · 1scuss1ons. ccor mg Q · · c 1e- created by noon hour exams are ment funds earned $18,000 in m- . a poll of the factllty attitude to- chet, this might account for its also on his program. terest. wards academic achievement in 1 k bl' · Th · if' t . the fraterru. \ties a .. nd .. ways to hn- ac of pu · lClty. e Sign lean difference in this program is that prove their standiirg; .. He made a it is more than a social gather- ..• ~ l ,1, ,·~. .elpfug 1 . ~(;er? ., trently .· ·aining; ify fon 1ate ofD 1ission: !.J Force·,·. •J fficersi\ sitionsf; rtunity,.i ~pense-q ·hen i1·1l Force'l1 ' .. I' Officer.n I( 805,,, . ·r 9 .v:. r:e:~ . .. . motion that the IFC sponsor a ing; it is an intellectual con- cup to be awarded to the ple?ge clave. class that shows the most 1m- In the past Phi Sig has had provement in its average index such speakers from the faculty from the first to the second se- as Professor Doty who discussed mester. The cup, to be awarded Leon Trotsky, and Professor at the opening convocation, will be retired after one year, unlike (Continued on Page 6) the Brown Cup. Leonard Korn moved that the Constitution be amended so as to give the junior or sophomore rep- resentative f\lll status, including; voting rights. 'I'he motion was tabled for two meetings. A stag party is going to be held at the seventeen fraternlty houses tonight from the hours of 9:30 to 1 :00. Japanese Film Is Featured Union Rents IBM-1620: Computer V egh String Quartet To Give Concer't Weekend Clancy IRISH INVASION Page 3 PRICE. 15 CENTS To Host Brothers By Bill Nauftus The Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem will high- light this year'·s Fall Prom weekend. The weekend will be held November ninth to eleventh. · --~----------~ The ballroom of the Hotel Van CLANCY BROTHERS Gifted To Share Facilities Curler will be the scene of a dance J!'naay mght 1rom nine to one o'clocK. lVJ:us1c wlll be provided by lJmo Cimmo and his orchestra. lJurmg the mtermiss10n, the queen of the prom wiU be selected rrom among girls nominated by the fraternities. Saturday's schedule will start off with the Umon vs. Susque- hanna 1ootball game at 2:00 l'.M . At eight o'clock the Clancy .Broth- ers and 'l'ommy Makem will give a concert in Memopal Chapel. . ComecHan Lenny .Maxwell will also be featurea; and during the concert intermission the prom- queen will awar.d a trophy to the 1raternity with the best aisplay.

1. 2 Publlshed Fridays during the school year bY the Student BodY of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc .. CoUege Pul>lishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave •• N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall. l'nion College, Publication Office. Schenectady Printing Company. 502 Broadway. Entered ln the Sche· nectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscription 15c a copy; $3 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. SENIOR BOAIRD ALFRED SOMMER '63 ................ DI 6-9959 ................................ Euitor-in·Chief STEVEN FACTOR '63 .................. EX 3-9232 ............................ llusmess ~!anager MICHAEL J. UOHU0:'-1 '63 .......... FR ~-1447 . .. ~!anaging Editor DAVE THURSTO~ '63 ................. Dl 6-9829 .. . .................. Sports Editor SIMON SOBO '64 ...................................................................................... News Editor DAVID BERE!'iSO~ '64....... .......... .......... ....... . ................. Feature Editor WILLIAM T. WINNE '34................................ . .. ......... ... .. ............. A<ivisor JU:SIOR BOARD :&!artY Newman \6-1 .. .... .... .. .. . .......... ... . ..\~uJi8tant l\'t.•aturPS F.dllor Martin Jay '63 ..... .. . .... .... . Assistant Features Editor Kal Schneider '63 ...................................... A,t·t Editor Steve Raymond '63 .. ..................... ...... . . ...... Lol'al Advertising Editor Bob Bulson '64 ......................... ..... . ......................... Subscription Editor Robert Kramer '65 .................. . .. ................ .... ... .... .... . .. Copy Editor Larry Horowitz '6 5 . . .......... . ............. Assistant News Edicor Richard Erdoes '66 ................................................................. Assistant Sports Edttor Ivens LaFlore '64 .................. ................ . ........ Circulation Manager Marty Cohen • 65 .. ... .. . ... . ............... Associate Editor Michael Berson '65 ......................... .. . ............. Associate Editor Richard A ron • 6 5 ....... ...... . ..... Associate Editor Stanley Brand '65 .... ........ ................... . ........... Exchange Editor A Rotten Apple A serious moral and ethical paradox exists on campus which can no longer be ignored. There is a fraternity op- erating at Union which contains a discriminatory clause in its constitution, in direct contradiction to our interests and ideals. The Interfraternity Council voted at its last meeting to ignore just this problem. Under the leadership of Ken Payment, the IFC seemed at the beginning of this year to have emerged from the decadence of the past, and was praised in Concordy for having reasserted control over ~ts domain. It now appears that our praise was both ill-founded and overly optimistic. When a motion to have all fraternities submit copies of their constitutions so that the IFC might investigate the existance of restrictive clauses was defeated, it was done so against a background of ignorance. Not one member of the IFC knew how many houses contained such clauses. That the house in question should oppose the motion is understandable, but that a;· majority of houses should also do so, is not. Three years ago this same point was raised by the IFC. At that time three, houses on campus contained clauses, and each professed' a desire to remove them. They asked the IFC to give them time to do so, a request that was wisely granted. Two of the houses have justified that trust, while one appears no closer to fulfilling its promise than it did then. Whether this is their fault or the nation- al's is no matter. They are staining what might be a per- fect record. The basic issue is that one fraternity among seventeen is challenging the ideals and commitments of Union Col- lege, and is in fact over-ruling them. Our motto, \we all become brothers under the laws of Minerva\ is being made a mockery of by a national fraternity that in effect pre- vents brotherhood and expounds division and segregation. The rules and ideals of Union were designed for the college as a whole, not for the entire college with the exception of this fraternity. If it can not operate under our standards it does not belong here. These ideals, let us remind you, are not nebulous statements forced upon us by college officials, but the direct result of student creation and support. The Student Council passed a resolution three years ago stating that: \'fhe Student Council as the duly constituted student governing body of Union College cQn· demns and deplores all manifestations of discrimination ••.• \ It is also evident that this contradiction of ideals is not the result of any simple misunderstanding between this fra- ternity and Union, for it has always been adament in its policy of bigotry and prejudice, for which it has already been kicked off several college campuses, including Dart- mouth's. Passage of a motion demanding that all fraternities remove restrictive clauses in two years, or leave campus, would have several advantages for this fraternity's local chapter, should they truly believe in what they profess. It would allow them to present an ultimatum, not merely a request, to their national, in support of their desire for the discriminatory clause's removal, and would have pro- vided them with a total of five years to get it changed. If they fail, then the national rightfully would not be allowed further initiations. This would permit present members to retain their national fraternity membership, while even- tually eliminating the national from campus. It is time th~t we in the North, so adament in our support of integration, catch up with the South. Bigotry and prejudice are not compatible with our motto, ideals, or interests. We therefore urge the IFC to review the issue, and in reCd$fiition of their responsibility to the College and the student body, support the bill's passage. Buildings and Gro1;1nds Recently, there has been a large amount of discussion on Campus concerning the buildings to be constructed at Union under the Development P1·ogram. The Stud- ent Council has formed a commit- tee consisting· ()f Stephen Shapiro Mark Dopkin, and Robert Fran: cello to present the point of view of the students on the priority of these buildings. In order to better inform the Student Body on. tl~is mattet·, the Concordy is prmtmg excet·pts from the Task Force Report on Buildings and Grounds. It must be noted that these recommendations are only tentative, while some changes have already been implemented. In spite of the amount of new building and improvements to ex- isting buildings during the past few years, a great deal needs to be done to bring our plant and grounds . to acceptable standard. To do this takes money, and since all the necessai'Y funds are not immediately av.ailable, the Task Force has set up a Schedule of Priorities. In the effort to estab- lish a priority schedule we found many differences of opinion. We have tried to evaluate these dif- ferences of opinion, keeping in mind that requirements must at times, he superceded by the stark necessity of making re- pairs and improvements to keep present facilities operative. We have also had in mind that gen- erous donors might wish to con- stl:uc~ specific buildings of low priority, and we are certain that no one would wish to decline their contribution on that account. Your Committee hns theTefore indicated the needs, leaving to a later date, in some instances, the particular buildings which might house those needs. We have also avoided establishing a building time table, since these decisions are interlocked with thnse of other Task Forces, pTimarily Finance Resources. In general, we may say that this program should be completed in not more than ten years, but preferably as rapidly as possible. The continual rise in construction costs means that the longer these projects are de- layed. the more they will cost and the higher must be our goai if we are to meet them. Areas of General Consideration Consideration Landscaping. A great step for- ward was made this year with the decision to begin a ten-year program of landscaping the en- tire campus, with professional landscape arehitects cooperating with our campus committees to beautify our grounds and Jack- son's Garden, with a view to mak- ing this a unioue, outstanding showplace . . . the \most beauti- ful college campus in America.\ We believe that in a few years we will find this of practical as- sistnnce in attracting desirable a)tplicants for admission as well as a public relations f~ature of importance ..• Fraternity Housing. Since a substantial part of the College's student housing load is carried by the fl'\aternities we are deeply concerhed with the physical con- dition of their houses. Naturally they are all subject to more wear and tear than private. homes. Some of the houses have been main- tained fairly well, although only one has spent any great amount of money for this purpose since World War II. Several houses are in poor condition. If build- .ng costs were lower, it would be well to demolish them and build entirely new houses, but this does not seem reasonable at this time. The Committee on Fraternities has recommended that the Trus- tees look into the feasibility of offering financial assistance to fraternities willing to undertake extensive modernization of their buildings. It suggests that we make loans on somewhat the same basis as was done with the fra- ternities in the auxiliary dormi- tories, offering to match dollar for dollar whatever funds might be raised by the fraternities themselves to a pTe-determined maximum; the plans for such modernization to be approved by the College architects befoTe any commitments are made. It would be considerably less expensive to do this than to build new build- ings, and this Task Force seconds the proposal to study it further. The Acquisition of Additional Land a. This Task Force recom- mends the continuance of the pres- ent policy of acquiring land in the \G. E. Plot,\ from Lenox Rord to Wendell Avenue and from Union Avenue to the back lot lines on N ott Street. We should obtain these properties as they oecome available, utilizing them for purposes in accord with the City Zoning Laws, or demolish- ing them if they are unsuitable. In any event, whether they be buildings or grounds, we should maintain them as well or better than the surrounding properties. b. At tr~ same time we should trv to obtain the one house on Nott Street, near Van VTanken A venue which is on the campus but which is not owned by the College. c. We should also keep in con- tact with the County officials with a view to obtaining the Coun- ty Library building and land, should the new library be built elsewhere. We recommend that the College architects examine the building as to its :future use for College purposes. d. We add to this point, by way of comment, that we must ever be on guard to prevent en- croachments to the existing campus for any reason whatever, in view of construction planned for the future. . . New Buildings. The proposed new buildings and renovations of present buildings have been listed in priority groupings. Estimated costs are included for preliminary discussion only. The priority groupings are as follows A. 1st Priority Group 1. Administration Facilities: {$775,000) The need for more space and bringing together the Adminis- trative officers is obvious to everyone connected with the College, or having business with the College. Substantial savings can be made thl'ough better use of equipment, pooling of stenographic seTVices, group buying, closer inventory con- trols, etc. It will also permit proper housing of a central (Continued on Page 4) Friday, November 2, 1962 Letter to the Editor: Morality and Cuba lly Edward Skloot Morality and power, at first glance, seem to clash head-on in the sphere of world politics. If, in fact, politics is the struggle for power and international poli- tics is that same struggle on a supra-national plane, then mor- ality, here, must be out of p'ace. A nation which seeks te define a policy of right rather than wrong naturally is hesitant to act against an immoral intTansigent who is sure that his policy is al- ways right. The latter bases his policy on power; the former ques- tions its necessity. This was one phase of the international posi- tions of the Seviet Union and the United States until two weeks ago. American Fallguy whole or in part. MoTeover, it answered them in the affirmative and suggested that Americans should feel the twinge of remorse when they contemplate their country's actions. This point of view usually is taken by part- time international politicians and deserved to be raised because i-t is not an uncommon argument. The mora-l justification foT in- action is an example of the cate- gory-squeezing mentioned earlier. A 'l exhibitions of power and its subsequent use are declared im~ moral. Power and morality are said to be ineconcilable. This, however, is a specious argument. Carried to a log-ical end it is an' ·excuse for inaction and cowardice. Power politics is a fact of inter- !\la~ion:;tl life in the ~old war 1 .and· 1t 1s Silly to entertam the notion that a nation can play power poli- tics with words. America seemed unwilling to practice a hard•line policy. She appeared the faU guy who would succumb to strong pressuTe by inaction, for Americans forever Kennedy Meets Challenge seem to suffer through a soul ' searching process inimical to President Kennedy was aware: power politics. They att~tnpt to of this when he acted to meet the separate out the moral from the Soviet challenge. He did not take immoral to the point of squeezing the moralist's stand. His action everything into either category. was exemplarv of a way to meet They hesitate for fear of being the real problem: how immd'ra1• charged immoral and split hairs must be one now in order to maxi~\ when the guilt is obvious. They miz\e moTality in the·\future. His' post-mortem everything. answer was immoral enough to· A change well may have or.- pay 1 the p~·emium on American currcd when President Kennedy fore gn policy. announced a quarantine of Cuba. Far froll!,. .a quality to be dis- It was a well planned a~t swiftly .paraged, mGrality i~· a praisewor- executed. Apparently the move thy concept, The .. distinction was successful, the Latin Ameri- which must be made, \howe:ver is can Nations united as never be- one which :was made b;y ~he Pr~si-· for~ am~ missile bases were on dent. He chose to use power as.: t~e1r way out in Cuba. The ac- .a means and.not.as an end. ·Here tion was so successful that many .is. the significance of the act,. •To. problems will have to be faced in base one's policy on power is im, the near future. moral., and worse, i1J is downright A New Posture? dangerous.; .. t~ employ it upon ut:.., ter necessity rs nothing more thann Have the events of the last· good -sense. few week~ herald~d a new era in . U~ foreign policy formation? Nop.chara~t'eristic Will the· posture of American One must hope th;at the action fore\gn policy change perman- taken' by the President doesn't: ently in the diTection of the hard- become· the characteTistic Ameri- line? Will power be the only can tes'pbnse. .Power, so success- criterion of right and wrong? fully'· displayed in this instance, An editorial in this newspaper must not become the cqrneTstone last week was in error on almost of American foreign policy. The every fact presented. It did, how- • dangeT is a complete reaction ever, raise the above questions in ' (ContinU(!d on fagff 4) 1 17 Mohawk Ave. THE GIRL WITH THE GOLDEN EYES A French Drama ·\ ,. I SCOTIA, N. Y. . ~ . \' . ,. -1< SHOW TIME 7:00- 9:00 with MARIA laFOLRET DIAMANTE'S ·- Enjoy our Fine Horne Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinin·g Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. . ~ ·' OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. Suggestion: SWEATERS PO~ISHED COTTONS IVY SLACK$ CAMPUS OUTER WEAR.w ADLER SOCKS Show Union Identification Card and Get 1 0% OFF on All Merchandise Exclusive . RICCITELLO'S Erie Boulevard at Jay_ Street -Jil£li.uJUJuj- f . Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks-Chops SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS F~lday, N Folk. ( A As Fall Union CoL puHing of Because I ple know i this colun: coming ap Brothers Only rece oft-repeatt has been, Brothers This lack rooted in people km because tl sincerely 1;ion will The Clanc amazing a are genuiJ One of and laugl current cu the most cultuTe f1 results i bellyache This l'efc eign thin manifests ing\ worl the KingE country C( fed, little selves ofJ fectively they brea life in tl on the ba certain E.h. ing·meatl They can status of electrical Mac In the Kingston ed on the While th millions < ing them This is s~ ment. 'I has been ill the ptl because t decided t· ity rnstea Next ' ZINE wil i\ssue of material prize wi campus. . ens'\ .artie 1m w,on t tive liter ~ additi Handlin, ian and Jon 0 through 1 Concordi« known tc 1965 for which w for thes freshmar The year appeared in a com B~ (Acr Fl Le; ONE [ c 'CL · All W PIC 527 Nt

1962 ~er, it :native !ricans !morse their •int of part- ticians ecause 11ment. :or in- l cate- !arlier. md its< :d im~ trY are This, 11ment. is an' ardice. ' intet'~· lr, .and· notion !r poli- 1ge awaret ~et the Jt tl').ke action ~ meet 11mdra1• , :rriaxi~ • ~. His' tgh to· 1erican be dis- lsewor- .inetion ~:ver, iS; , Presi-. wer as., . ·Here ct •. ir(). is im-1 <nright Jon ut:., re than., action doesn;t: Ameri~ uccess-· :stance, erstone r. The eaction 4) ..-..ilr.: IE •.: - • .i. ~ ''·.· \.M. :AR.11· ( . Friday, November 2, 1962 3 Folk· Concert: Cine1na Review The Clancys Are Coming Authenticity at Last By Richard Sifton · mistress X, a strange, unnatural,· By Tltomas Krehbiel all who have had the opportunity and not very obvious relationship \Who are you having for your ·to come under the spell of their It is quite reasonable to say between the two women is hinted next big weekend?'' asked Jim roistering impudence and wit. that \The Girl With the Golden Th · · l th By J. C. Clemens · at. ccordl\ng to Balzac's story, Hendricks, ·personal manager of etr songs concern mam y · e Eyes,\ this weel''s movt'e at the 1 f t' d · k\ ' Lambert, Hendricks, and Bavan. P easures o cour mg, rm mg, As Fall Weeekend approaches, ness. Sincere people appeared Scotia, is more confusing and. mistress X is a love~slave of EI- \The Clancy Brothers and Tom- and rebellion. In other words, Union College is on the verge of from alL quarters. Most .of them disjointed than the notorious eonore. From Marsay's confes- my Makem,\ came the reply. they have something to appeal pulling off a considerable coup. were ugly or homely, but at least \Last Year at Ma·rienbad~\ Re- sion on, Eleonore keeJ.>S mistress \They'll put on a good show,'' to almost everyone who hears B ecause· I feel that very few peo~ gardless of its confusion, it is an. Th tl1em Those of you who felt when Joan Baez sings about X from seeing him.' Henri's cat- ,was Jim's opinion. \ ey were · · · ple know it, I'm devoting part of interesting story which is filmed held over for six weeks at the cheated by the .relatively tame this column to plugging the up- courtin' in East Virginia, you excei!ently, making an impressive cult comes to the rescue and dis- ViUage Vanguard, y'know.\ performance put on by Oscar coming appearance of The Clancy have the feeling that she might and effective use of lights and covers where :Eleonore has been Nat Hentoff wrote recently: Brand two years ago should take Brothers and Tommy . Makem., have done some. I can't see the filters. Perhaps unfortunately, hiding the girl and, in the final \The Clancys are at their best advantag-e of the presence of the :Onl.·y recently, one of th,e most K . . d f · in this case, a movie should con- El d ,_ ... before a lt\\·e audt'ence because Clancy Brothers co.me Fall.Week- T ratsmg one rop o genume . scene, ·< eonore mur ers uer, oft-repeated questions on campus s1st of more than elaborately theirs is a decidedly gregarious I end. Tameness 1s not m the has been, \Who are the Clancy, sweat hoisting a mainsail simply composed settings. thus den~Ving to Marsay the vic- approach to music-making.\ Clancys vocabulary. Brothers and TomtnY :Makem 7\ because I know that the KT tories of love. This lack of information is not doesn't sweat; they have conquer-· The story is based on one by : Rear, Live People .,' I;ooted in ignorance. Very few. Honore de Balzac. It jg about a Throughout practically the en- The Clancy Brothers and Tom- n D peo.:ple knaw of this group simply. ed this problem with a man's de- Parisian photographer, played by. tit·e film, the viewer searcl\.es for , my Makem,, for those of Y~>l;l who c-aymen ts ue l:Jecause they are fairly new. I odorant. But they are dead and Paul Guers, who IS the le~der ?f a plot or for some form of con- haven't been exposed to then· tal- !iincerely doubt that this condi-: gone. We may not lament their a group of male cat-cultists; m J · · · A h d f h ents, form what will be probably tion will continue much longer .. passing, but one can't help feel the opening scenes, the photogra- · tmUity. . t t e en ° eac the most authentic folk singing Room rent of .$7 5 · 0 ~ for double T ... he ci·ancy Brothers are a quite pher, Henri Marsay, is shown scene, he thmks that he has found group Union College has been ro()ms, $100.00 for smgle rooms a bit sad about aU the great folk · d 1 h\l · th th b · · f f F h d U I amazing and unique group. They woomg a young mo e w 1 e wear- • e answet·; at e egmnmg o treated to in quite a while. They 1 or . res men an pperc assmen are genuine. songs they have corrupted for- ing a eat's mask. . He quickly the next one he realizes that he are not folkologists like The and the Board Fee of $122.00 for ever with their unclean hands. loses interest in the model be- h 't Th.' h t d t Weavers, formally presenting I Freshmen for the seeo~d half of ·,cause he finds another attractive asn · e c arac e~s · 0 no . their versions of the folk singers. the current seme~ter wtll ~e pay- Folk Myth No Taste Revolution girl, played by Marie Laforet, , appear as human bemgs; they art, nor are they folk-pop singers able at the Busmess OffiCe be- One of the most interesting whose real name is never reveal- are made to suit Balzac's story. Like The Brother·s Four beating tween the dates, 1\~onday, Novem- and laughable fallacies of our And so the old order passed. ed. and therefore need no personal- every tune available into cute lit- her 5 thro~gh Friday, November current cultl'lral taste is the myth There has been no real revolution · ity, at least so Jean-Gabl't\el. AI-· tie money-makers with regard for 9, 1962 durmg the hours of 8:30- Marsa,y is s.een with the uniden- f 1 t 4 of the folk sing- in public taste but a gradual tran- tified mademoiselle in several bicocco, the film's director, must nothing but their bank accounts. noon rom · p.m. 0 p.m. er. America at- sition. The record buyer is will- strange, disconnected scenes (in , have felt. The Clancys are real, live people Freshmen will receive their tempts. to en- ing to accept just a bit more that one, Marsay pretends he is Na- who enjoy singing songs which second quarter meal ticket upon compass a I l he can't fully understand than poleon while pigeons fly around Nevertheless, the s1,1perh pho- have origins in the same back- payment of their bills. things, to cap\ he was two years ago. In addition the girl's boudok) which tell the i tographic effects are worth the :ground from which the boys them- Late payment fee of $5.00 due sulize, to Am- to the record market, the folk v 1 ·ewer nothi\ng concrete about the . i selves came. · ft N b 9 · d · · exper1'ence of see1\ng• th.' e mov1\e a er ovem er er1eanize, an to singing world has been enriched personalities of the two. Sud- In spite of this adherence tc · • • hastily digest by more and more concerts. While denly, when Marsay tells his boss, . even if the v!ewer does feel as if ·their own tradition, or perhaps Beginning :.\Ionda,y, November the most delicate nuances of people might have bought tickets Eleonore, played by Francoise he were passmg th:rough a subtle because of it, the Clancys and 12, Freshmen will be required to culture· from all countries. The expecting to see a version of the Prevost, that he has slept with ;funhouse filled with wierd people. their compatriot Tommy Makem present their new meal ticket for results is one great vulgar Kingston Trio syndrome, they have become very popular with meals at West College. bellyache of pre-digested taste.· were not unhappy to discover one This refusal to deal with for- of the newer, more genuine There will be stag parties at all eign things on theil· own terms groups. New artists started out manifests itself in the \folksing- with a small cult of dedicated . houses except Kappa Alpha on ing\ world with such groups as fans and these cults grew. One Friday, November 2, 1962 from the Kingston Trio. In no other of these new cults has been boost- '9 :30 P.M.-1 :00 A.M. country could four crew-cut, over- ing the merits o;f the Clancy fed, little barbarians pass them- Brothers and Tommy Makem. In selves off as folksingers as ef- the past year, they have had a fectively as the KT has. When hearing ... at New York's Blue they break out in a strum about Angel, Village Vanguard, and life in the holds of 'Slave ships Town Hall; at the Playboy Club on the banks of the Erie Canal, a in Chicago and also the Hungry certain E.h.iver of impending creep- i and the Gate of Horn. Columbia ing· meat ballism raises my hackles. Records has recorded the!r per- They can never rise a:bove the formances. Generally this is the status of rock and rollers whose kiss of death, but the Columbia eiectrical supply has been cut off. album has a true ring if you dig below the snappy \sincerity\ copy Madison Avenue Shift and listen to the record. These four Irishmen sing about what Also, open house at all fraterni- ties will be held on Saturday af- . ter the Williams game until 6 P.M. Coffee hours at all fraternities are Tuesday, November 6, from · 7:00-9.:00 P.M. and Thursday, No- vember 8, from 1:30-4.:00 P.M. Best Service in Town SCHU.HL In the past yeai• or so, the they know best and sing it with Kingston Trio has been discredit- more exuberance than anything ed on the elevator of public favor. since Sonny Terry first recorded While they may still be selling \The Fox Chase.\ They sing · millions of records; they are sell- about killing Orangemen, run- · ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and.Fill Up ~ifh the BEST GAS IN TOWN . ing them to' :fourteen-year olds. ning from the rent collector, and This is somewhat of an improve- most of all ... drinking. The ment. The folk music market class of 1965 should be comrn.end- has been uplifted not by a change ed for hl:rjng so apropos a group in the public's musical taste, but for our first. prom weekend of because the Madison Avenue boys the school year. Just follow the decided to sell folk music sincer- bouncing shillelagh down to your ity instead of :folk music smooth- nearest ticket representative or ~th~e~D~e~a~n~o~f~S~tu~d~e~n~t~s~o~f~f~ic~e~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Idol To Publish .. Next week the IDOL :MAGA- ZINE will come out with its first issue of the year. Much of the material has been written by the prize winning authors on this campU?. For example, Jon Clem- ens•· .article \Requiem for which h:e won the Yudis Prize for crea- ~ive literature will be presented. ~ addition, an article by Oscar Handlin, world renowned histor- ian and scholar, will appear. Jon Clemens is well known through his weekly column in the Concordiensis. Dr. Handlin is known to the classes of 1964 and 1965 for his book, The Uprooted, which was requited for reading for these classes during their. . freshman orientation programs.· The year l:Jefore last Dr. Handlin . ~Ppeared bef~re the student body 1n a convocatiOn. SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS :CLEANERS . All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY · 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phohe EX 3-5472 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and legal Beverages I 18 - 120 JAY STREET UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT UNION' INN-5-17 Uiti.on St; For three Generations .... Those Who Know •• Have been recommending -- HERSHEL MAURI.CE B. WALTER Maurice B. Grau,b·art & Suns 11 lay Street le.welers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AN.D GOOD JEWELRY Engineers! Will you have one of these jobs 2 to ·4 years after you graduate? • Project Engineer...- Designing closed-circuit educational TV systems for schools, colleges and universities. • Project Engineer~ Helping to design a building to house an electronic central' office. • Systems Engineer-Spending a year and a half at Bell Labora- tories to study communication concepts of the 'future. . . • Marketing Engineer·-. •· Planning a total system to meet com- plete data and voice communication needs of a large business. • Supervising Engilaeer-D~recting a group of engineers who· specialize in complex circuit design. • 'Development Engineer- ll}creasing the potential bit rate ca- - pacity of teletype cl}annelS. • Engineer-Data Services-Integrating a microwave system with computer· installatio1ls to transmit millions of data bits per second. • Planrtlng. Engineer-· Programming plant growth to meet communication requirements five years ahead. These and other challenging assignments are open to qualified men with . Bachelor ancl Master degrees in all engineering disciplines. We have excellent opport11nities for har4-driving, creative engineers. For more information, write .E. B. Dooley, College Employment Coordinator, New York Telephone Company, Room 1770, 140 West Street, New York 7, N.Y. And be sure to arrange for an interview when our college repr'esentatives ·v_isit your campus.

4 Friday, November 2, 1962 I e I I Frid~y, N -----------------------,--------------------------~------------------------~----------~~----------~~--~------------------------------------------------1 ~----~- be required in the evening. We B t E d s J T fluba ·• .. It is now a fact, stated by actions (Continued from Page 2) . alone, that the United States can- not tolerate a communist menace so near its borders. This is an inevocable conclusion and an ex- plicit statement that the Cuban government, in its present form, must fall. from the ideals of moralism and fall into the opposite camp. It must be recalled that in John L. Sullivan's day they fought with- out gloves and continued untH · one fighter couldn't come up for more. .Bridge Not Crossed Yet, President Kennedy based his speech on the status quo, the fact that it was the bridge which neither power crossed until the. missile ti·ansfer. The -logical con- dusion to be dra:wn is this: will a Cuban goverRment, Communist in form, remain in existence be- cause of a United States guaran- tee? If this is indeed the next step, then a Communist Cuba · must remain ... and must then become a part of the status quo. , In this sense, the Kennedy ac- tion may have been unsuccessful. Although it will rid Cuban terri- tory of Soviet missiles, neverthe- less, it may have sanctioned the existence of a Communist govern- ment. This may be immoral. It Beware of Extremes President Kennedy now must be wary of the other extreme: those who would use power in- discriminately (to achieve almost a·ny end). The advantages of us- ing power were readily exhibited in the last two weeks. The diffi- cult decision is now how to employ it prudently and effectively in the future, to effect a moral con- viction. Unfortunately, the President's speech may have referred to an immoval standard. He talked of the status quo and how he has attempted -to uphold it, with the cooperation of the Soviet Union. certainly is paradoxical. (Author of \1 U'i:zs a Teen-age Dwarf,\ \The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,\ etc.) EAT, SLEEP, AND MATRICULATE The trouble with early rnoming dasRes is that you're too sleepy. At late mornin11, clasRes you're too hungry. At early afternoon elasnes you're too logy. At late afternoon cla:::;se.c; you're too lJUngry again. The fact is-and we mi11:ht as well face it-there i~ no good time of day to tuke a class. What Hhall we do then'? Abandon our collegeR to the ivy? I say no! I ,;ay America did not become the hope of mankind and the \Vorld's largest producer of butterfats and tallow by running away from a fight! If you're always too hungry or too sleepy for class, then let's hold clu,;scH when you're not too hungry or sleepy: namely, when you're eating or sleeping. Classes while eating are a simple matter. Just have a lecturer lecture while the eu.ten; eat. But watch out for noisy food. I mean who can hear a lecturer lecture when everybody is crunch ing celery or matzo or like that'? Serve quiet stuff -like anchovy paste on a doughnut, or steaming bowls of lamb fat. And kindly observe silence while lighting yoUl' post-prandial Marlboro Cigarette. Don't be striking kitchen matches on your jeans. Instead carry an ember from the dormitory fireplace in your purse or pocket. Place the Marlboro against the ember. Light it quietly. Smoke it quietly. Oh, I know I ask a great deal! I know that one's natural instinct upon encountering Marlboro's fine fla vQr and filter iH to throw back one's head and bellow great, rousing cries of joy. But you must not. You muRt contain your ecstacy, lest you disturb the lecturing lecturer. You can, if you like, permit yourself a few small shudders of pleasure as you smoke, but take care not to wear garments which will set up a clatter when you Rhudder-rike taffeta, for example, or knee cymbals. · Let us tum now to the problem of learning while sleeping. First, can it be done? Yes, it can. Psychologists have proved that the brain is definitely able to assimilate iaformation during sleep. Take, for instance, a recent experiment conducted by a leading Eastern university (Stanford). A small tape recorder was placed under the pillow of the subject, a freRhman named Glebe Sigafoos. \\11en Glebe W!k\ faRt aRleep, the recorder was turned on. Softly, all through the night, it repeated three statements in Glebe's slumbering ear: L Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109 and is called \The Founder of English Eclectic Philosophy.\ 2. The banana plant is not a tree but a large perennial herb. 3. The Archduke Ferdinand was assassinated in 1914 at Sarajevo by a young nationalist named Mjilas Cvetnic, who has been called \The Trigger of World War I.\ \Vben Glebe awoke in the morning, the psychologists said to him, \Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109. What is he called?\ Glebe promptly replied, \Perennial Herb.\ Next they asked him, \What has Mjilas Cvetnic been called?\ Replied Glebe, \Pel'cnnial Serb.\ Finally they said, \Is the banana plant a tree?\ But Glebe, exhausted from the long interrogation, had fallen back asleep, where he is to this day. © toa2 Maxshulm\\ * * * Glebe sleeps, but you, we trust, are up and about. Why not improve each waking hour with our fine product-Marlboro Cigarettes? You get a lot to like-filter, flar•or, pack or box, Grounds ••• recommeRd. that our architects 00. ers . . n . eason ' . Ol look at the County Library at the corner of Union and Se- . • (Continued from Page 2) ward to see if it couid be adapt- W:•th 3 6 R o~~ I thing but justice to the fine ed for such use. The County . t . . . . - . ' eo . ' I u ' I . n v~ qua:lity of work done by .this expects, in the foreseeable fu- Departrnent. ture, to construct a new library The Union College· soccer team • I il B. 2nd Priority Group building. , closed out a 3-6 season last Wed- stemmed from a corner kick which 1. Genetal Engineering Building• 2. St~de.nt Cen~~r: ($~50;000) nesday ,a:;; they dropped a ~l~se bounced wildly right to- a s;q~.•,.. Rehabilitation and Office Ad- This IS a facJhty bemg request- 2-1 decision .to powerful Trmity prised Trinity playe~, a$ter hit- dition: ($400,000) · ed by ~he ~tudents, and could College 0f Hartfo!d, Conn. T~e ting a pucldle and skipj,Jing p::J,st This .structrurally sound build\. ,be provid:d 1 .n Old Chapel when ga~e was played m a steady :r.am the Garnet defense. The Trinity ing needs extensive repairs al).d a place IS found for Art and which greatly .hampered b0th ·I center forwal'Q. cahply booted in alterations. The floors need Geology. teams, but especially the Garnet the tie breaker to give. Trinity to be replaced, the heating sys- 3. Art and Music Facilities: wh~ rel:y- g!eatly- on speed for the lead 2-1. Trinity threateJ1ed tem -is antiquated a·nd a con- ( $350,000) . their .ofr.ensive att~ck. . . . 'ag~n as th.eir cenW:z: forward stant source of trouble the: A new home will have to be Much. of th .. e ?penmgactiOn took again hroke thxotigl')\ '.Whe Garrtet lighting is poor (this bultding t:ound for the~e activities. if place a:. midfield. Both .teams . defeNse but failed to~\I.SQP!'(;) a!) the is the one receiving the great- the Old Chapel IS converted Into had sconng chance~ early m the Union goalie, Bria,>n , :aarefo.ot, est use by the evening division) a Student Cente~- Also, the !1>'ame but wer.e _unable to punch .smothered both the ~aU. and the and space suitable for class- present spa~e .aval:lable to these m a goal. _:rnmty took the_ lead, mart in front of the ~al'on a fine rooms is presently utilized as two areas IS madequate. howe':er, v. Ith . about ~ mmutes . play. The game ended· with~n.it offices by .faculty mem!Jers. 4. North Colle~~: -($40_0;000) lef~ m the f1rst perwd when any furtheer scoring b.ut wj.th Professor Lowen's suggestion. To be rehab1htated m the same their center forward maneuvered UniGn coming close se~eral tim:es that a three-story addition be manner as South College. through the Garnet defense and . . . · · , . . \'. . . . • placed at the rear and made When this is completed a11 of scored on a 15 footer. On Fnday, Octob~r 2~, ·~he Gar- architecturally attractive, for our dor.mitories wil! have b~en The Garnet tied the score at net bootei•s traveled to Op.eonta, use_ ~s offices, and to provide modermzed and ~vrll be f!re- •1-1 early in the second period. N. Y., to face Hartwick, Colle~e, additional space for Mechani- proof. An extensive refurbish- when left halfback Chris Dusen- the most powerful ~()e. ih!3Y w~re cal Engineering, has merit and ing of W e~t C_ollege wj]~ be in . bury sent a cross into tile Trinity to play aU season. Th~ Hartw~ck we 1•ecommend an architect's order at this time., also, mclud- goahnouth where Rolf Kasper team had s_uffered on~· .. ··<;me. ~oss study. ing exterior painting. . , pounded in his fourth. goat of the to metropohtan league c. h .. aJll,];ll. ons Space utilization studies show 5. Science Cen!er: ($1,500,000). • season. The remainder of the NYU: ana. had defeat .d. Co~gflte that the building is not being To house ~wlog¥. ::~;nd Chemis-. first half found play fairly even. 6-0 m a pre~sea~on !Scrl.mma:g7• used efficiently because of try.. Certam faclhties could be. The opening of the second half . The Garnet easily Pl~yed t~~IT classroom deficiencies. shared and would meet the found Union controlling play and bes,t game ()f the sea~on desu;te 2. The Geology Department: needs ?f_ both d~partm':nt.s in- consistently out-hustling their l0smg 2-0. The g~!ll'e was t1ed Geology needs additional space moclermzmg; then· . ~mldmgs. opponents. Soon, however, Trin- 0-0 a:t the hal! and 1t took aU the and a floor strong enough to The Chemistry ~mldmg w_as ity's defense began to click with. power ~artw~ck could mustel-' to house its collection of minerals. ?onstructed wit~ pipes and Wir- their offense, and they managed punch m their two :goals. 'fhe • • • • mg- embedded m the concrete , to push in another goal. The goal (Continued on Page 6) 3. ~resent. Admtmstrabon Budd- walls and flClors and both need :-...:...-~ ___ ___::: ___ __::::_ ___ _:__~~~~-...,__.:::__,....: __ mg: ($100,00q) . replacing-. The lecture hall is To be used, mste!ld of Wells used only to a limited extent. T'he· vr:•/Wtern.-it· .... ,sl\'~t··e House, for Alumru and. Place- at present, and this space could :.1:! , L+ \' ..., JeJ 11 lfl,t ment. W el'!s ~ouse m~ght be he better utilized if renovated. used for fratern~ty.housmg, for. Biology needs additional space' W: .... ·aer '(T-ie.~~, A. T ·.e·e·. ·-.A ·e.· .. d· ·, example, for Phi Sigma. Kappa, because of the changes in teach- ., t' -,_ -......., .L.. U! now the only fratermty not ing methods and the trend to- housed on the campus. ward honors com•ses, with in- By Willard Grant C. 3rd Priority Group dividual students conducting In deciding what factors would , tertaining women and the dorm . ' 1. Theater-Auditorium: ($500,000) relatively long-term experi- create a strong fraternity system r.ules prohibited any private .en- The Theater is the only activ- ments. at Union, the tendency is to take : tertainment. Now independents ity left homeless by ~he de- D. 4th Priority Group ·too narrow a view of the purposes . have top priority for tll,e finest molition of Washburn Hall. It 1. Renovation of Butterfield Hall :and functions of . a _fraternit¥· rooms on the campus. This ye!ll' !s proposed th~t plays be staged (Chemistry): ($150,000) ~ach person is pr~JUdiced by his . a smaH concessi0n was made by m the Memorial Chapel, which A decision is needed on the fu- . I(ieal of a fratermty. A strong allowing bet~r parties in S()me of will !~mit the choice of pre- ture use of this bui'lding if a 'house doesn't have to be compos- the lounges. The situation is stili sentatwn, but no place has yet Science Center is built. ed of athletes, throw extrav:agant far from good, but it is inwroving been found for the workshop. 2. Renovation of Old Gym Dorm: parties, or have an excellent phy- steadi~y. For ii)stance, concrett;J It is the hope of the Task Force ($100,000) sica! plant. These fact~rs, and plans. for a student union have that the needs of the Theater A decision is needed on the fu- many others, may contribute to been formulated and t~ere is al- and of an Auditorium seating ture use of this building. the stren~th of . one h~use, but ways the very remote possibility a~JOut 100 people _co~J.ld be com- E. 5 th Priority Group . they aren t basiC requn·ements. that the dorm regulations will be bmed m one bulldmg, located . . · . One of the reasons there are sev- eased. Obviously the fraternities preferably on the edge of the 1. Relocation _ of Heatmg Plant, enteen fraternities is so that each are going to have to ~ffet more campus so that campus roads and . Machme. Sh-?ps for Me- student may join a group that than an adequate social life to and parking areas would not chamcal E1.1gmeermg: reflects his own values. A the freshmen. ($5-00,000) strong fraternity, therefore, is· \Guess I can't hold .out any longer! Might as weD get it cut at one· of the three smartest barber shops in the Capital District!\ IN SCHENECTADY 6 Barbers . 1 1;RI 1 E BA.RBSR SHOP 158 EBlE BOULEVARD htwe<in GE •nd State St •. IN NISKAYUNA 3 Barbers N1tSIIfAY'UNIA BA:R'BfJR SM0 1 P AT THE UP.PEB END OF N<>'r:r ST. Just hfow l•lltown Rd •. IN ALBANY 4 Barbers LOlJIDON CSNT'ElR BA!RBER SH 1 0P 161) N<>BTHEBN BOULEVA:IID Cppodte Memorfal Hospital Under the Personal S11pervision of Joseph Mastroianni HOURS: 8 A.M •• ' P.M. CLOSeD MONDAY'S Plenty of Free Patldnl' (Continqed on Page 6) one in which all the members have Union will probably lose som~ some kind of bond that, in addi- of her fraternities as students tion .to creating a desire to live find it less necessary to ]oin :ITa- together, inspil'es actions that ternities. Hopefully, these houses are in accord with the· tundamen- which are not able ·to Offer tal purposes of the college, enough advantages tp ~ttract for the finf,lst T.he .necessity· for these bonds freshmen will disappear qUietly. The loss of a few houses would . J.n custom clothing and furnishings to crystalize is becoming increas- strengthen the fra~ernity system ingly apparent in light of the ris- since· the competition for fresh- ing stature of the independents. ·men would be reduced and the It is becoming less· necessary to fraternity men could devote their join a fraternity for an adequate ·energies to other endeavors. Fin-. social liftl and decent living ·COn- ally, if any people are complacent dltions. Three years ago the only about the situation of fl!aternities,' dorm available to upperclassmen , consider what would happen u was an unrenovated .South Col- the college sttddenly allowed any.' lege which was far worse than one to live off calnpus. Howi West College. There were abso- many houses could keep going,· 14 E; 44th St. • New Y orl. 17, N.Y. Ju·t.ely no public lounges fo.r en- Down to LoLJis', let us go, Let the la~er freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere N·ICHOLA·US RESTAURANT . . Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accomorlqted in our RATHSKEU.~R For reservations phone FR 4-8917 MI·DTOWN 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) -- Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care Mother Ferro's Specializing in lfcdian • American food 'Oisr:o!Jnl for Union Students 2'Ck on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett. S.t. . under this circumstance? · YOUR DOWNTOWN FLORIST /~ GALLOYfr Special Rates 20% OFF-~ on all cor:asages~ _,-··;~ -::- .... r:· 96 Jay Street '._ ... _, SKI INSTRUCT~;· .. Week.end positions avciiltib~~Jor : . w .~ ... · skiers to instruct high si:hbaV p;:lys ' and gi·rls. Prior instructions experl- · ence n.;t required, Good cir·mperl~a­ tion. Excellent ski facilitie~. ' Write or Call: SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP. Shaker Road, Uebanon, ·N. Y, Leb. Springs 7-1255 '\ ··~ ChOE Bre~dan Tom Lambert an atten Ill The E 4-1 marl ' tion unt loss com .11 top-rank Williatru touchd·o, has allo •· ~ending m theE fensive of th:e v; offense •· seven pc be the J men ·wil test. •· The C is smar mental!: loss to t , Jered 1 brought position Hobart 19, 19E '·John C: Slash back Ke of an ' ·~ Statesm out the impress ries as ~~ v.ia!l ke run thr< ti'appinl il!a mer 1 loss of of the 1 qqate p: s~t the Art Ma tdan HU duo acc1 ing bet' The J : ,.contest scoring italized the bal (8 shall's it up where t ing ma by hal •Terry C pass to the sec good a• • The as the~ own 42 Marsha t and wi· SU! PA 1 Jll

1962 \ Frid~y, November 2, 1962 ~----------~----------------------------------~----------------------~---------------------,----------------------------------------~----- 5 ·/ Tough · Williams Eleven· .Frosh Booters Gridlings Face ·• ••• ,j . Colgate Romps Over Cross Coun.try Squad s;ur .. Iiit- Past in as the the a fine wl.th ·times. Gar- p.eonta, were loss tb,eir desn!te t1ed an the ster to 'fhe dorm en- :finest ye;1r by of stili proving· have is al, will be more life to some oin f:ra- houses Offer attract qUietly. would system fresh- the te their Fin- ppen u any.\ Howt going, .. _ ~~-:. · , . experl~ y, Invades Union TomorroW Finish Season_ · By Dave Liden ~Y Al Starr teammate Bruce Balgooyan at By Charles Sinclair RPI Today '\ -·~ Coach ·Tony 'Turner's freshman Despite strong individual per- 15:14 min. Union's Dave Ri:n,g soccer team ended their season Last Saturday, the frosh foot-· formances from Larry Newton,· was third in 15:42-a time welf . Tuesday with their game at Hud- ball team journeyed to Rochester Gary lVIorris, and John Hann, the :below his best effort this yem~. · son Valley Community College. to take on the U. of R. After Union cross-country team was The next Union finishers were . Thee Union hooters lost this one playing good football in the first crushed 15-4'4 last Saturday by Bob Wanamaker (7), Andy Carl- 4-3 bringing their season record half, the team let down;··escaping Colgate on the loser's course. The son (8), and Dave Volkman (10). . to a 3-3 split. with a 13 to -6 victory. This put powerful Red Raiders continued The final score might have been Hudson Valley got three of their the Dutchboy record at 2 wins and 'on their march towards an un- . closet if the fresh had run to the · four goals in the first half off 1 Ioss, making it the best ath- defeated season as they complete· best. of their ability, and Coach goalie Stu Dym. Thek last one • letic record on campus. There 'ly dominated the meet by captur- BiH Ketz was justly disappointed came in the second half past goalie, were several i-nteresting aspects ing the first five places. wi:th their performance. Bob Dickman. Walt Standhart -of Saturday's game. · Phil Wilder of Colgate won the On Wedqesday the team trev- scored one for the :Dutchmen and First, the Dutchboy offense race with a time of 25:24 min. eled to Clinton, New York, to Woody Bowman came through for sported a new fuH back, Charlie' for the 4.5 mile Union course. He take on Hamilton. The Garnet two more. Johnson. He replaced Al Miller, was followed by teammates Jim .turned in their best performance Coach Turner felt the team and did a creditable job. Johnson Earnshaw, ·Gordon Williamson of the year only to lose a heart- . would have done much better if was injured against Rochester, KitSmith, ;;tnd Brian Small. Th~ :breaker 29-30. John Cardona of they hadn't been down threee key but should be ready to take on Garnet's Larry . Newton finished H1;1milton was the winner in 25:41 men because of injuries. John RPI today. sixth in 27.06 min.-the best time mm., foUowed by teammate B 0 b · Fuller, the number one outside Second, the Dutchboy passing. he has ever ·done for the distance. Morgan. Union was again paced right and Ray Teed, center half attack finally got moving, at This time w~mld have been. good by Larry Newton who was third were injured last week in a scrim- least during the first half. The enough to win the RPI meet last in ~6:26 min. Union was again mage with the varsity, and Tom two Union scores came in the week, for the Engineer's BiH paced .by Larry Newton who was Hutton was injured in the first second period on twenty-five yard Gazda could do only 27:26 min. third in 26:26 min. Gary Morris quarter 0f Tuesday's game. Coach· passes from quarterback Tom over . the same distance. Gary was fifth in 27:05 followed by Turner said they just couldn't put Hitchcock to AI Hrdlicka. AI . Morris also turned in his best John Sepples,. John Harm, and 'lnything together as they had in also kicked the :PAT after the effort as he finished eighth in Andy Warde ('9). For the Dutch- the Rochester game. second score, meani.ng that he ac- 28:22. Hann's 28:43 min. was .men it was their fifth loss, but \This year's. team was the best counted for aU the Dutchboy also a personal record; he finish- they certainly deserved a better soccer team I have coached in my points against Rochester. fe? ninth overall. Other Union fate as they continued to improve career .at Union. The boys show- mishers included Andy Warde over their earlier showings. Chosen \Dutchman of the Week\ by the Union coaching staff, Brendan Hutchinson (above), a sophomore fullback, ed confidence, experience and The second half of the ball game (10), John Sepples (11), LeRoy The Union frosh runners were lots of hustle.\ These were the was rather disappointing from the Michaud (13), and Art Campbell handed their second consecutive coach's words summing up the Union standpoint. In the first • (14), The Dutchmen showed im- · loss by the Hamilton frosh who !;Ieason. He had words of praise half, the Dutch boys nearly scored provement over their previous • were paced by Bill Cunningham's for Dave Holdridge who showed twice in the first period, losing meets, but were hopelessly out- :record breaking performance. By Richard Erdoes great promise for Coach Carl . the ball on fumbles both times. classed against a team which is :Cunningham's 18:33 min. for the Witzel's varsity next year. \He In the second quarter, Union rack- one of the fin·est small college 3.5 mile course broke the oid rec- has exceptional hustle and team ed up 13 points. So, in the first squads anywhere. ord by 11 seconds. Union's Dave spirit which played a big part in half the Garnet controlled the . Colgate's frosh runners made :Ring was second in 19:06, and Tomorrow a. fternoon a:t 1 :30 p.m. the Dutchmen wi'll meet a h H er \n th eco d It 1 th · t e role of the team as a whoe. game. owev • 1 · e s n a c ean sweep as ey upended other top finishers for the Garnet Lambert Trophy contending Williams eleven on Alexander Field in John Fuler was also outstanding, half, things bogged down. Roch- the previously unbeaten Garnet .wel'e Jan Werner (6), Bob Wana- an attempt to capture their second victory of the season. displaying excellent skills and ester scored once, and the de- froshl8-39. The Dutchmen were ·maker (7), and Dave Volkman 01 The Ephmen have compiled ai•>----------------- soccer sense. Tom Hutton and fense was forced to hold on two· hurt by injuries to Bill Hunt and (9)', The Dutchmen again missed 4-1 mark against rugged competi- Danny Caye played very good stands inside the Union 20-yard Dave Bruce, and the able bodied the services of injured Dave Bruce~ tion until now,. with their ouly Soper pass the ball was soon on soccer. Both goalies Bob Dick- line. ·members of the team turned in ancl Bill Hunt, who is out for the loss coming last wef:\kend against the Hobart 24. Eales then gave man and Stu Dym played excep- This week is the end of the sub-par performances. Gale Lund- sea;~;on with a leg injury. They .w, top-ranked Tufts. The 8 points the ball to \Hutch and the tough tionally well and wiH help the var- freshman season, and the oppon- quist of Colgate was first in with also lacked the drive displayed Williams yielded included the first fullback powered through the line, sity considerably next · year.\ ent is traditional rival RPI. The a time of 15:12 min., followed in their earlier meets. touchd·own their mighty defense avoided several tacklers,· and Coach Turner also felt that Ray game should be a tough one for has allowed all season; In de- drove into the endzone for the Teed had shown the most im- all con-cerned; as RPI also beat •· ~ending their .sixth place ra!lking . TD. The conversion attempt was provement throughout the season Rochester, by a score of 18-14. m ,the East, 1 t has been this de- no good as the placement for the along with John Becker and The RPI team will be up for the fensive wall that has done most kick was bobbled and a despera- Woody Bowman. game, and their coach has been 0 ~ the work, especially since their tion pass to Soper was caught The following students have using some slightly under the ta- offense has collected only thirty- out of the endzone. been awarded freshman numerals ble tactics to \psyche\ the Dutch- •· seven points to date, and this will Neither team was able to mus• by Coach Turner for their par- boys. However, Coach Allison be the main obstacle the Dutch- ter a score Until 8:03 in the third ticipation in freshman soccer: has also been working hard to put men -:will face in tomorrow's ·con- period, when the Statesmen pick- Herb Allen, John Beckerman, the Union squad into top mental test. ed ~P their deciding tally. Again W:oody Bowman, Dan Caye, Bob and .physical shape. He feels that Th G h th h d Nye, with the help of back Larry Dickman, Bob Drapkin, Vincent this· could he Union's toughest •· e ar:ilet, on t e 0 er · an • Sl·attery·, pi'cl'ed up large chunks D . t B b D . 1 \'- V t S' · · b h h ' 11 d , acqms o, o · ·owner, Stu game, me uu.urg ermon • 1t1ce IS smartmg ot P · y:s~~~. Y an. of Un1'·on terri'·tory, a·nd f1'nal'ly Dym L F t J h R F will b d' th' ft th 11 f h 14 . 6 · · · • arry . en on, o n. • U:l- you . · · e 1~ea · ;~ng IS a er e menta: Y rom t e · • upset Nve crashed over and collect·ed 1 B'll G 1 D. · · · · '11.. t 1 h H b er, 1 · ree ey, ave Holdridge game Is m progress, we WI no oss tot e o art Statesmen suf-' the w·I·n. J H d T ·' k th d' t' · f d l S . d · Th.. 1 erome owar , om Hutton Bob ma e ano er :pre IC 1on, so a tnp • ···ere ast atur ay. · e oss The Garnet made several moves· L' k A M ' t AI d f' ld 'II l h brought the Garnet slate to a 1-4 . IS , rt arsh, Mike MvGau• o exan er 1e · wr revea t e position, and signaled the first durmg the remainder of the con- ghey, Henry Revercomb, Arnie score along with a: good football H b . N test, but were unable to sustain Shapiro, Leonard Smith, Walter game. 0 art success smce ovember their attack without several fatal Standhart, Ray Teed, and Steve 19.,. 1960, when they defeated losses due to the crashing Hobart Thomson. '·John Carrol 7-6. defense. The holes 1'n the Un1'on Th f\ I t 11 The Block \U\ Society is spon- soring a Pep Rally on Friday eve· ning, November 2, at 9:00 p.m., previous to the fraternity stag parties. Your attendance is re· quested. e ma: a · y for the season Sla:;;hing drive~, by left half- forward wall will have to close stands: Union 0--R.P.I. 6, Un- back Ken Nye, of;f ~he short side against. Williams or Eales will ion 7-Darrow 1, Union 0-Col- of an unbalanced line kept the· be eating dirt for the entire game. gate 3, Unionw 3-Rochester 2 .... Statesman attack rolling through- The Ephmen are a hard driVing Union 4-Northwood 1, Union 3____: out the. contest. He compiled an bunch who rely primarily on their Hudson Valley 4. impressive 141 yards on 25 car- defense. ries as Well. Hobart's forward As a result of numerous in- ~~ Wall kept QB Dave Eales on the juries on the Garnet squad, to- run throughout most of the game, morrow's Hneup should se~ some ti'apping the two-time AU-Amer- interesting variations. John Will- ica mention six times for a net cox will be returning after a five 1 loss of 70 ya,rds. The inability we~k sidelining due to a leg in- of the Union line to provide ade- jurv, and should help to fill the qq:ate pass protection greatly off- end slot vacated by ai'ling Rudy s~t the fine running of tailback ·Umscheid. Co-captain Pete Burg~ Art Margha11 and fullback Bren- waid hopes to see a little more • dan Hutchinson. The sophomore action than he has been able to duo accounted for 115 yards rush- so far also. ing between them:. The game .nresents an excellent The first few moments of the opportunity for the Dutchmen to , , contest seemed to sign<J-1 a h!gh nut together 11. respectable seasbn, scoring battle as both teams cap- A win would just about cancel italized the first time they got · out the losses they have incurred the ball. ·Hobart received Mar- 30 far. They have everything to ~ shall's opening kick and brought P:ain by: putting in a good ner. it up to their own . thirty-one, formance and a hard fought close w:jiere they began a 14-·:Play scor- · decision would draw nothing but ing march, After sevexa:l ga,ins praise. by halfbac.k _ N<ye, q:a~rterbacl< · ~---~-~ • Terry Cullen tossed a seven :Yard The Cheerleaders Club is put· pass to end.-.;):ohn· ~ha!!d~for 'ting a csug.ge~'tiofi ·buok itr Dean the score. The conversion wa:s Pollack's office. The club is an good and the score was 7-0. instrument ·of the student body · • The Garnet quickly retaliated and therefore needs its positive as they began a drive . on their criticism in order to survive. Any own 42 yard line. Hutchinson ·and comments or suggestions on Un- Marshall both drove for big gains, ion's Cheerleaders will be greatly t and with the aid of an Eales to appreciated. Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5294 Two Doors From Mohawk National Bank CHINO SHIRTS PANTS WASH SUI·TS .... _ ............ _98c SPORT JKTS. --49c PArt,t,~,\'::-----49c Plain Sweaters 39e .. ~' .. . . Jibs. LAUNDRY $1.20-------ISc per lb. * Shirts N6t Included in Laundry Weight JULIEr $575.0() Also $500 to 2475 We~cl!ng Ring 17.5.0() ROSS $250.00 Wedding Ring 39.75 SUMNER. $450.00 Also $~00 to750 Wedding Ring 62.50 KeeEpS'ake PROTECTED AGAINST LOSS •••. without charge, for one full year, in writing. Stunning des1gns .... perfect craftsmanship •.. center diamond guar- anteed perfect (or ·replacement assured). That's Keepsake! Rlil&• enla.r£Cd to •how dt:l'IIII. Prlcealncludt Fcdetal TD.L .· \Your Jeweler Away f,rom Home'' 428 St~te St. FR 4-0183 ~l~:ha~l Rothf s · Upper Union Street-Presents Kal Winding ,,The Trombo~e Sound\ ' Jazz Quintet Fri. & Sat. Nights 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. Sunday 3:30 to 9:30: GEORGE MONT>£R() JAZZ TRIO Nightly 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. at 1-617 Union Street Field's Liquor Store ' 38 J;RlE BOULEVARB. \ : (Across from Train Station) ~YYYYYtftt)tVtftttfffffftt)tttfffffYfffffffff SAVE ON OUR OWN Olde Village PRIVATE LABEL SPIRITS ....... 4 4 •• 4 ' •• ,!, + ' •••••••••• 4 4 1' 4 ..... 4 • 4 .... 4 4 4 4 4 4 +· ... 4 -WE DELIVER FREE- FR4\'6846

. i 6 LB.M. • • • ·NSF Grants Volunteer Opportunities in Schenectady The following is a list of vol- ually one afternoon or evening to visit. These jobs may be Off d unteer opportunities open now for . per week. . either regular or spot jobs. · ere Union men. For many of them, Occasional spot clerical jobs for SCHENECTADY MUSEUM weeks.'' The computer will solve • . . · the days and hours may be ad- groups or individuals. A guide for the Halls of Ad- any problem involving an equa- ~ justed to suit the schedule of the· CANCER SOCIETY venture on Sunday afternoons (Continued from Page 1) tion Ol' a logical decision, but the National Science Foundation volunteer. Some are regular and A man is needed to run the · 2:30-5:00. · reasoning must be fed into the Graduate and Postdoctoral Fel-. :permanent, while 0thers are spot movie projector in the even- GLENDALE HOME machine. • lowship appHcations for 1963- jobs. Information on any of the · ings or occasional afternoons. Leader for a group of men in In the I.B.M. course, the in- 1964 wiH b? accepted until J·anu- following may be obtained This would not be a regular leathercraft. Other talents structor showed how the computer ary 4, 1963. These Fellowships through Barry Kaplan at Phi thing. The volunteer would be. needed :for other recreation can play black)ack, legally or il- will be awarded for study in the Epsilon Pi Fraternity or Dr. Nor- on call when needed. groups. legally. By usmg one of vari<>US' mathematical, physical, medical, man B. Johnson at Silliman Hall. 'ALBANY ASSOCIATION Volunteers to run the book pro- prbgrammings, the. machine, which biological and engineering sci- SCHENECTADY COUNTY FOR THE BLIND . jectors late afternoons or even- acts. as the dealer 1 , will either look ences; also in anthropolgy, psy- CHILD GUIDANCE CENTER There is a great need for people ings. This may be a Spot job. at 1ts opponents downcard to •chology aeography economics Hi« brothers are needed for to read to the blind, to lead JEWISH COMMUNlTY CENTER ~,u 15e ,w e . er . .- o 1 or .. o so~iology, and ~he history an.d boys. This is considered a per- groups in recreation, music or Arts and crafts leaders. Music · d h th t \h't\ t ' ' e ' ' \ s.bck, or 1t ;w1ll play honestli, phrlosophy of se1ence. AU appb- manent job although no speci- arts and crafts, to drive and teachers for small children. w1thout knowm~ 1ts opponen,t s. cants wiU be judged solely on fie hours or days are set. c1:1;rds .. Meanw~nle,. the mach;me the has is of ability and will be Groups are needed ta help wlll total the wmners as the game 1 ·equired to take the Graduate pa,.int and decorate. progresses. .Record Examination designed to BOYS CLUB Limiting Fador test scientific. aptitude and Permanent group leaders. Us- There is one · :(Uajor limiting f1;1ctor in this machine, its lack oi o:ff-line . equipment. While its typewriter or punches are worl>:· ing no other part of the machine WJ.l function. Although the lim- ited use scheduled ior the ma- achievement. Those interested in ually one after.noon or evening applications should see D'ean .per week. Huntley or apply directly to the Craft instructors National Academy of Sciences, Tutors National Research Council, 2101 SCHENECTADY COUNTY Gonstitution Avenue, Washington COUNCIL OF CHURCHES '2·5, D. C. Grou:ps or individuals are need- chine now will not cause any Applications Accepted proplem, additional equipment Wifk. Scholarship applications for l.m- rie needed once the use of the computer is opened to the student der.grad\late study in Europe dur- body. Goodheart predicts that ing the academic year 1963-64 wi~hin a decade or so the ~om put- ·wilt be accepted by the Institute ers will .be used more extensive1y of European Studies beginning than the college library. Thursday, Nov. l. Those inter- ed for assembling mailings,· stuffing envelopes, etc. This is a spot job. CARVER COMMUNITY CENTER Group leaders and tutors are needed on a regular basis. Us- The computer, because it can ested should see Dean Huntley · make logical decisions, is to he . or apply to The Institute of Eur- G d available to al:l departments at opean Studies,. 35 East Wacker • rOUfl S • • • U.nion. · , Drive, Chicago 1, Illinois. Hoffman in Charge The machine, to. be placed in . Boo ters . . . room 47 of the Electrical Engi- neering buitding, ~s about the :;uze . of one desk. Wii;h attachments · (Continued from Page 4~ its a~11e is. ::J;lmost·. doubled. :Pro~ · G14rne~ . defense :was outstanding fes~:~or Boffman will be m chat·ge as fullbacks J-ohn Nelson and of the 55 stu(j.ents slatecj. to make Hel:m--HE!lber continua,lly stopped use of the machine this year; scoring chances. Dave Whitaker Courses in programming are now · and Abe Terpening were also out- being . planned and will prol:>ably standi-ng at their halfback posi- be scheduled to begin in eitheJ: • ·ti<ms. Goalie Brian Barefoot February or next Septembet.* turned in a tremendous effort in ApproXIimately 150 students . nlaying his best game of the year .. were able to watch the same »1od- He made 37 saves, two of which el :machine in action when a simi- • came on the stopping of break- la,l' i~2o. was on display in the aways, and directed the Garnet ElE)ctrical Engi'neeJ.~ing building defense superbly. last sp;dng. Some of t~ students Few Scoring Chances played blackjack with it. Union ];lad few scoring chances in the first half. Center forward H · • Seville Simonds had two fine op- , . ' onoratums • • • portunities but was stopped on fine plays by the Hartwick goalie. During the second half, much Hainebach who spoke on Goe.the. · of the play took place in Garnet In the most recent lecture Pro-· territory as the offense was un- fessor Finkelstein talke(i about· a,ble to mount their attack against the Common Market. The next this powerful team. (Continued from Page 1) speaker is tentatively Professor It was far from a discouraged L!l,rrabee who has not yet de-· soccer team which left Oneonta Cided on his topic. and each member of the team was Guests Pielted by Speaker proud to be a member. Hn;rt- wick's coach made the followmg (Continued from Page 4) telephone switchboard, which is badly needed. 2. Modern Languages: ( 350,000) Of equal urgency is the need for modern classroom space and a Language Laboratory in or- der to get this Department out of the World War II one-story frame building where it is now located. This is the only really sub-standard academic building on the Campus and does any- By the time this project is reached, we wiH need entirely new heating plant, as boilers, burners, etc. ~ll have outlasted their usefulness. 2. Infirmary: ($250,000) Dr. Weaver has suggested that it be made a wing on the Alum- ni Gymnasium, for two princi- pal reasons: (a) the pool, baths and other devices for the tre~t­ ment .of injuries would be avail- able; (b) in case of epidemics eots might be placed on the gymnasium floor, where pa- tients could receive p1·oper care and be protected from cross- infection. At present only six beds are available in the In- firma,.ry and at least four addi- tional beds are needed. 3. Additional Athletic Facilities: ($400,000) Originally these monthly talks· com 1 nent to Coach Witzel follow~ were open to all faculty .and fra- ing· the gmne: \It was thetough- ,Wrnity :members, but because of .est defense we've seen. all year. the limited space of its livW,g~. :a'i:!d that includes NYU.\ room Phi Sigma Delta has left · · guests to the discretion of the . Even if it was a losing season, J;peakel'. it must he Tendered a successful one. The hooters were withl.D 1 In summing up his program . · s Scheichet neither knew what im- or 2 goals in every game. · .. en- pressions the faculty had of this ims Pat Dugan, John Nelson, Ed action nor if any other fraterni- Lipton, Pete Ntlddemeyer, Pete ties followed by Phi Sig's lead Bishko, and Dave Davidson were ,and .adopted a simi·la·r plan. He QUtstanding in both play and lead- felt that the fact that the mem~ ership. Co-captains Abe Terpen- bets Jiad gotten to know some ing and Herro Helber played out- prtiJies<Jors better was justifica~ standing soccer and will be sorely tiQn .:enough for the fraternity's misBed next year. Mr, Ketz, who has just return- ed from a year of travel in North America, studying- ath- letic facilities of various col- leges, has indicated some of the needs of his department, but until they are in more con-. crete form they will not be enumerated here. we should say that some of them may be placed in higher priority group- ings. ~'Honoi<atium.\ The Garnet will have 10 '!.'~- , . turning lettermen next year, along : Dr. Milton· C.·· Froyd, dean of with some outstanding freshmen. the Colgate-R®heste:t Divinity ':rhey l.ose only ~wo of ~he for- f;chool, will prel;);eh at a commun- ward lu?-e and h1gh scormg Rolf '.ity vesper servii:¢ in Union Col- Kasper IS only a sophomore. The ·lege's Memorial Chapel 7 p.m. defense loses 4 of 6 members, but $unday. a sttong nucleus returns in goalie The service will be co-sponsored Barefoot, and bac1{S Dusenbury, by the Baptist churches of the I Blair, Whitaker and Tehbut. Schenectady area and the Union Coach Witzel will be looking for- College Christian Association. ward to a fine fail in 1968. Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE .BOULEVARD 32 AMF. BQ,WLlMG .LANES -. Open. 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR C:l>N PREMISES MAMA BIANCHI'S Restaurant 1135 Barrett Street Open Till 1 :00 A.M. on Weekdays and 3:00 A.M. on fri~ay and Saturday Nights -· .Free Parking - SAVE ON PHIL'S OWN BRANDS! (jJhil [J1.tj.&haJUil 4 liquor Store 511 UNION ST. ;ex a;.31n .... ex·a .. 3H,o. - ., haskell the Schaefer bear / / I f ' Next time you're out, enjoy Schaefer. It's the one beer to have when you're having more than one. Friday, November 2, 1962 Sunday afternoons 2:00-4.00. Also need evening group lead- ers. 'SALVATION ARMY Crafts instructor for men. Tuesday evenings 7:00-8:00. • ST. CLARE'S HOSPITAL Male help in wards evenings fa or week ends. SUNNYVIEW HOSPITAL Tutoring p!ltients. Evenings. Time and day ;:~.t convenience '' of volunteer imd patient. SCHENECTADY YMCA Councilors for the YMCA's Grey Y program for boys of •· the 4th, 5th and 6th grade level. . ,, ·:r·. 1 ~ I :I J • •·It • . ' • 13RING YOUR DA'rES SCHAEfER BREWERIES, NEW YORK ANO ALBANY, N.Y., CLEVELAND, •OHIO ·~~--------------~~~~~----------~----------~--~----~

62 ··:··! I \ . •· . \ I • I I ,, ·' t· \ ' ,, ~· : ~ - ....... -. \:... ~ .... AJ&:'\y~ -I r ) IJ:unrur: 1 , . -~ll'mi t •i ~./ I \ -· • 1J ll igtttm t N111t -:'· ·.- _gJ_§trbnruu~um - -~~- 6 6 1Rarum;~

AT PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT .•• YOUR EYES CAN BE ON THE STARS BUT YO · UR FE : ET MUST BE ON THE GROUND The glamou'r and excitement of space age programs often obscure a fundamental fact. It is simply that farsightedness must be coupled with sound, practical, down-to-earth engineering if goals are to be attained. This is the philosophy upon which Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's position as a world leader in flight propulsion systems has been built. Almost four decades of solid engineering achievement at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft can be credited to management's conviction that basic and applied research is essential to healthy progress. In addition to concentrated research and development efforts on advanced gas turbine and rocket engines, new and exciting effects are being explored in every field of aerospace, marine and industrial power application. The challenge of the future is indicated by current programs. Presently Pratt & Whitney Aircraft is exploring the areas of technical knowledge in magnetohydrodynamics ... thermionic and thermo- electric conversions .. . hypersonic propulsion .. . fuel cells and nuclear power. If you have interests in common with us, if you look to the future but desire to take a down-to-earth approach to get there, investigate career opportunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. To help move tomorrow closer to today, we continually seek ambitious young engineers and scientists. Your de· gree? It can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL and NUCL.EAR ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • ENGI· NEERING SCIENCE or APPLIED MECHANICS. The field still broadens. The challenge grows greater. And a future of recosnition and advancement may be here for you. For further information regarding an engineering career at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement officer or write to Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford 8, Connecticut. Pratt & Whitney Rircraft CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS. EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA u DIVISION OF ~NIT'RRCRAI'T CCiftR he lqval OpPGfiUnllr fMpro,.r SPECIALISTS IN POWER ••• POWER FOR PROPULSION ....... POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. - ~ t ~ , i · • l ,a.: , - .. .. .. . . .... • · .f' ~ . ..,, . ~ · CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHIC · LES, MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS. ~ 1 1 .. . . ,

ONS. ~ . i ,,.. . ' .a.:- ,,, : ~· . .... •·.f' ... ~I I 8 8 VV LANES 1723 VanVranken Ave. STUDENT RATES 35e per game up till 6 P;M. Weekdays 45e per game after 6 P.M. and Weekends Bar On Premises FREE SF(OES (save 25c) to College Students 8 8 VAN CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street ~ RECORDS JAZZ MUSIC POPS CLASSICS Student Discounts THURSDAY November 29 YOU CAN TAKE A BIG STEP CLOSER TO YOUR FUTURE That's when the Linde Company rep- resentative will be on campus. He will be interviewing qualified engi. neering students who feel their fu- ture lies in research or applied engi- neering. The LINDE Laboratories, for ex- ample-atTonawanda (Buffalo), N.Y., · Speedway (Indianapolis), Ind., and Newark, N.J.-provide an unusually stimulating environment for the sci- entific-minded to grow and develop. The many achievements of LINDE people in research and applied engi- neering have borne a rich harvest of progress: Over- half of LINDE's cur- rent sales volume comes from prod- ucts and facilities that did not even exist 15 years ago. Plan now to save this date for the LINDE representative ... and get one step closer to your future. Contact your engineering placement office for an appointment. LINDE • COMPANY I • :' • Linde Company, Division of Union Carbide Corporation In This Issue Volume 235, Number 35 ARTICLES My Alter Ego, Walter Cronkite ________________ Carter Davidson 3 Castro and What He Has Done to the Cuban Tobacco Crop _______________________ ________ Art Cigar Bob Ridings, The Power Behind the Throne ________ Willford Ketz The Kangaroo and I _________________________ Professor Duress I was Taken for A Cuban Spy ______________ Walter Allan M.ozely The Medical Use of the Incense Burner ________ Myron B. Weaver 18 How I Made My Fortune Selling Laxatives ________ Bill Van Dyke 22 The Value of a Public School Education ___________ _ f,ohn Parker hike DEPARTMENTS Letters _________ .- ___________________________ .... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ none Blast Strips _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 78 Editorials ______ ... _________________________________ Don't bother Funnies _____________ .... _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ - - - - .... - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 3 5 Speaking Out ___________________________________________ _ The Fall Weekend swings into full blast tonight with the semi-formal dance to be held at the Van Curler Hotel. Dance Chair- man Rubber Flower announced that a program of music will be held during the dance intermission at 11:00 PM. Appear- ing will be the Football Band, Dutchpipers, and a new vocal group composed of mem- bers of the physics and chemistry depart- ments-· the Puffy Profs. with Professors Hoffman and Schick, tenors, Bacon and Martin, baritons, and Prof. Howard Schef- fer, base. Also, in addition to the crowning of a prom queen from the fraternities, there will be a special \senior queen\ crown to be presented to the wife of a faculty member. Doctors Alan Mozely, William T. Winne, and Carl Niemeyer, will be judges. A series of dance contests will be held at various times during the evening, in- cluding competition in the twist, limbo, cha, cha, and .hora. Prizes of record al- bums will be awarded by WRUC. After the dance, the action will turn from the Van Curler to the Fraternity Houses. Dean Pollack announced that a troop of Burns Detectives will be on cam- pus to prevent acts of vandalism on the part of students from Skidmore and Rus- sell Sage. At 2 :00 PM Saturday afternoon, the fi- nal home football game of the year will take place against Susquehanna on Alex- ander Field. Coach Maras feels things will go against Susquehanna. For one thing, he said, Venus is opposed to Mars, which spells doom for all teams beginning with the letter \S.\ Not to take any additional chances, 4 black cats will be released in front of the Susquehanna bus when it ar- rives. During the course of the game, the Cheerleaders are sponsoring a cheering contest, with a portable 16\ television to be awarded to the fraternity with the largest vocal cords. After the game, there will be co-ed swimming in the Foote Memorial Pool. Male students are requested to use the north dressing rooms and their dates, the north dressing rooms. Incidentally, the Dean of Women at Rus- sell Sage College in Troy, announced that all Russel Sage girls will be permitted to spend the night in Union College Fratern- ity Houses. It should be noted that the girls are not allowed to stay at RPI Houses during the weekends. This is a regretful disparagment of the moral conduct of Un- ion College Fraternity members. There will be an alteration in the Prom Plans for Saturday night. The Clancy Brothers, due to a mixup in scheduling, will not be able to appear in the Chapel. The sophomore committee has stated, however, that an all out attempt is being made to get back Dicki Do and the Don'ts. During the entire weekend WRUC will sponsor a gigantic record givaway contest. A 33 1/3 long playing record will be awarded every fifteen minutes, to the cou- ples. having nothing better to do but listen to their disc jockies. On Sunday morning there will be a pan- cake luncheon in the Field House, catered by Joseph Fleishman, former Union Col- lege Entrepenuer. Followihg the luncheon, there will be a series of talks by former members of the Union College Faculty. Keith Doyle on \Joe is no Better;\ Carlos Esteves, \Democracy at Union;\ Bill Din- inny, \They didn't give me a chance,\ and Henry Ferguson, \What a surprise.\ On Sunday afternoon the President will publish the list of students being expelled from Union as a result of this Prom Issue.

NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue Shaver Service Repairs & Sales on all makes of Electric Shavers Phone FR 4-97 41 724 Y2 STATE STREET DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118. 120 JAY STREET Ti01E CEnlEI' JEw~;lt;I'S \Yollf Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts For Quality For Prestige For Value 11MPAWE $450.00 Also $350 to 975 w-.....iing 25.0t ~P-~a.k~ DIA-OND RINGS CULHANE $150.00 Wedcliag R~ 42.50 Every Keepsake Dia- mond Ring is a treasure of exquisite desiS!I and lovely detail. Quality is ap- parent • • • on the hand that wears a Keepsake. You can pay more but you can't buy ·a finer Diamond Ring thari Keepsake. llap enlArged to show detoJi. J'rlces lll<:lude Federal Tu. Time Center Jewelers ''Your Jeweler Away from Home\ 428 State St. FR <4-0183 College Campus Kits by Makim Mad & Green : BuHd your own campus from these prefab- : ricated p ; laster bo · ard kits, now in use in over : . lOO colleges and universities throughout ;· the country. · Full line of 187 4 model T's that never sold. Dormitories ___ $200,000 without doors · for stalls ___ $190;000 without stalls $180,000 Special sale on Genuine Train Station Libraries in contemporary styling. Only 100 left, so act Immediately. In genuine Grand Rapids Chippendale Veneer- Only $1,000,000. .,\ ~ .. .. . ' . ···:' ~~ SUPER 1c SALE . ~ .- . · . ' : . ·· . · · ' ' (._~· .. '. Buy Library immediately and get with it 2 matching \satellite type\ buildings-at lc extra. SPECIAL KIT OFFER With the purchase of an entire 1874 model T campus kit we will include free landscaping, and sufficient Stucco to cover up all the old ugly brick buildings you might still have ar9und. We will also remove any strange semiround buildings that might obscure the view of our fortresses. ( l , .. 1' tq. I I .. · . . ... .. \' ' .• 'lt[l i • l ' f . ~ ' .. I; . . : I

p ( I ,. . t(l I I , .. ·~ ' .. . ~ ' . . \ •' .. ' 1 \ ' ' ~ I : l November 9, 1962 EDITORIAL by me, Alf Sum-it-up Unless of · eourse you don't like it, thin1< its dribble, stupid, or in poor taste, in which case it was written by Micky Groden who we're blaming this whole issue on anyway. Now just what is news. I mean real news. Oo you will devote all his free time next year to correcting Concordy k;now (I don't) what news really is? I bet you don't, so in · errors; Hal E. Sway has left Union to become the new this editorial, I'll attempt to tell you just what news is, for \Magic Clown,\ on the one-half hour ~hildreri's T.V. pro- it isn't happening on this campus, but I'll tell you that it is, gram; Prof. Doress will not return to campus, he left in so if you believe me you'll think there really is news here, haste during the Cuban crisis for Australia (hopefully not which of course there isn't, but rnost people won't realize in a submarine) ; Prof: Fox just finished his mamouth book, there isn't any news. Will you? Sexual Life of the Eastern Aborgines in Samoa after Mar· Just look at all these wonderful things that are hap- garet Mead's Visit; and Mr. Pearson convinced one student pening here. Just look at them all. All over, careful you to go to Williams over Union with this recorded conversa- might step on one. Just look at all the wonderful things tion: \Of course we're better than Williams. Yes we are, our marvelous (mainly because .fhey read this rot) intel- we're better than they are all right. Sure we are, ask any- lectual, studious, hard working, and underpaid faculty is one. Yup, about Williams, we're much better. Uhuh. Ask doing; They're marking papers alld screwing guys all over Fumblebean. the place. That's because they're grumpy and underpaid. Now don't you see how much news there is. The faculty But besides that look what's happening. Joe Fumblebea:n is just full of news, you just have to find it (and have the for instance wrote a new book, \Deutchland Under Alles,\ nerve to print it). They're just chock-full of news. But or \Why Germans are Basically Good.\ This was no easy don't think the students don't have plenty of news too, boy task to do, the objectivity behind it requiring careful thought do they. They really have news. Why the Student Council and research, cutting deeply into Joe's work on the \Anti- and the IFC are just full of news, but its usually all de~ Volkswagen League.\ Now isn't that just great. I mean feated. Then it becomes editorial. We can always fill the really gr:eat. It even tops Forgotsums book on \Scholar · ly newspaper, one way or the other. Just look at what they Endeavor, the Key to Insurance .Salesmanship,\ which we did this week. all know was really great. Not far behind was Sideburns all The IFC, for example, took attendance. You might night marathon with Dean Polecat on the intelligence of think that that would be enough for one week, but no. They Concm'dy editorials. Polecat, many of you know, has gained passed two motions. One to accept the minutes and the world-wide acclaim (throughout Schenectady and Troy) in other to adjourn. All at one meeting. Now there's news for tracing down his long gone teleph.one to a recent alumnus, you. But that's not all. Chi Pi and Kappa Dappa had a now working in the chemical industry. He himself said \now snowball fight. How about that? wasn't that just super.\ Wasn't it? Don't you think Dean The Student Council of course gave us real news. Ed Polecat is super too? Not to be overlooked of course will Skoot spoke for three hours on the importance of the Stu- be the upcoming lecture by Deadenbury on the rejuvenation dent Council. Unfortunately he didn't have time to elabor- of Southern Brooklyn literature. And if you don't think ate. That's easily understandable though. What with the Deadenbury works hard on these resurgences, you ought to appointing of another three committees for the sixth week see him stir one up. Just watch. him burn the midnight in a row, by the end of committee reports it's 1 AM. Skoot alcohol in his private salon in t:he basement of Schaffer now also heads the committee on committees, besides the Supermarket. committee on rugs, desks, and chandaliers for the new S. C. Tl1e hero of our dreams of course is Prof. Cutlass, who office. singlehandedly, and against the advise of his councilor, Chris This isn't to say some of the news isn't of a constructive Fritz, assembled the first \chaleel\ or \recorder\ orchestra character. Bob Skoot (the resemblance is striking) head in Albany. I mean he really worked hard on this stuff. To of the Mountebanks, says they're put$p.g on seventeen pro- make a. full piece chaleel orchestra out of opJy three chaleels, ductions this year. He'll star in all of them. In fact, in three, two players, and seven faculty members is something. Cut- he's going to play all the parts. He's probably capable too. lass is next planning to make a full orchestra out of the This would be accomplishment enough, but they're all going Football Band. This should prove more difficult. to be given on the steps of Nott Memorial. They need a Just to name a few of the more important faculty ac- theatre and feel inside Nott is not adequate, not that they complishments of the past week, Prof. Alby Mousely dis- have something against Nott, but Nott just is not the right covered a new genus of snail in a bowl of West College S(J\!JP; sort of setting. Is that right or not, Nott? The plays will Dr. Wilhelm T. (for tough) Whinny identified the ~#sh- of course be broadcast live by WRUC, the only organization room growing in the bathroom of the language buildmg as on campus that can talk freshman into getting up before Muscugus Trusteeis; the administration assured Whinny their 8:30 class in order to do a show (that no-one lif;ltens he'd have time to collect many more (they grow at the rate to anyway because they're all sleeping), They've therefore of one a year); Prof. Meddle predicted a Nixon landslide petitioned Dean Polecat to begin classes at 8:00 to get stu- in '64; Prof. Burpy refused t9 talk to Prof. Meddle; every- dents up early enough to hear their early announcers. Pole- one refused to talk to Burpy; H,r.ex:y will appear on the \Dot\ cat said he's changing the schedule the other way, with label this month singing \Watcha Doin to my LLD. Degree classes begjnning at 9:00. There are principally two reasons Baby;\ Dean Buntley is lost in Central Park; he was last for this change: 1) Prof. Nomorer can sleep later, and 2) seen chasing a dead-ringer mud-slinger when he disap- It would end the lunch problem. He feels that Union's policy peared; Prof. Mayne Nocat has drawn a picture of a . horse; against discrimination (you first saw it here) is being vio- Deadenbury thinks it looks more like the insides of a horse; lated in that those taking exams don't get an opportunity Nocat, who no longer talks to Deadenbury, says they 1 re his to eat lunch. Now no one will. insides when looking at a horse; the horse refuses to pose The last group to be mentioned of course is the trus- ,for any more pictures; Ramsy Bangaport was last seen tees. But experience, and a true desire to remain at Union gastrulation through his navel; {jumping) Jerry Read will deters us from this pleasure. lead the American pogo~strick tea.m at the upcoming Olym- What then is news? News is whatever appears on the pies; Prof. Auburn will spend next summer teaching \;rna- front page of Concordy (or the Daily News). This news is turity and ballistics,\ an integrating course; Prof. Who-it a mirror of our intellectual life at Union. Take a peek. 5

6 The Saturday Evening Blast SPEAKING OUT Let's Stop Coddling Collegiate Myths A T EVERY orientation period at the be- ginning of every Union CoHege year, the forces of the college are massed to in- still into the waiting ears of frosh the boat- load of tradition that Elphalet Nott towed down the Mohawk behind him. In the tra- dition of Bob Newhart and Lenny Bruce, I would like to give an impression of what life at Union College was really like at the time and also to furnish some more imagi- native explanations for Union College tra- dition than those which have been repeated for centuries. The scene is Ferro's restaurant in 1795 ... Ferro's is ageless. Sitting at a large table in one of the big reception rooms is a gathering of canal boat travelers. As our camera dollies in for a closeup, we see a crusty old reprobate named Elphalet Nott holding court over six of his henchmen. The theme music dies down and the dia- logue begins : EUPHALET: What a draggy place to run out of greens! I never saw such a no- where town. What's the name of this jerk- water anyway? TOBIAS: (right-hand man) Schenectady or somethin'. I don't know; all these Indian names sound the same to me ... What do we have to come here for anyway, Lip? ELIPHALET: You know as well as I do, Toby. Franklin's on us at the Patent Of- fice about that iron stove boost we pulled off last month ... infringement of patent rights or something like that. It's a bum rap, I know it and you know it, but he pulls a lot of weight in Philly. We gotta lay out for a while and this looks like the best place. Nobody's ever come here. ISAAC: But, Boss, what do we do for bread while we wait for things to cool. I mean, we gotta eat. We can't live on this cheap dago garbage for too long. ELIPHALET: Cool it, Ike. That's what we're here for. We've gotta think. The stoves are out, the steamboats are out too By C.]. MENCLES after that accident up. in Buffalo. We need a new dodge . . . something respectable, something that's got good old Calvinistic morality behind it. ELIHU: How about those brass eagles for over the mantelpiece . . . they moved ok last year. ELIPHALET: No good ... no good. We've got no money for brass. It's gotta be some- thing with no initial outlay, something cheap that we can sell dear ... something intangible . . . TOBIAS: You mean religion? ELIPHALET: No good ... Can't sell any - thing new in that line around here. Re- formers got it sewed up. The population is a bunch of masochists . . . they eat up that \no dancing, no drinking, no dicing\ bit. But you're on the right track. ELmU: This is tough on me . . . I ain't got your kind of education, Lip. ELIPHALET: Wait a minute ... wait a minute. Toby, you're a genius. Now you guys are thinking. The rubes will buy that. They're for education like crazy. But you can't just put a school up here. I mean you gotta sell more than education . . . you gotta sell patriotism, God, mother, . the whole bit. But keep storming, guys, we got a tiger here! What about the French Rev- olution ... '*e' · oughta be able to tie that in too. ELIHU: Yeah, it's a good idea for a boost, but what about greens ... we need money. TOBIAS: That's no sweat. With an idea like education, we can always raise the greens. The important thing is that we're boosting a respectable dodge. They'll love it! ELIPHALET: How about this: we set up a big ad campaign ... \Give a dollar to the college of your choice.\ Now we're the only college around here ... we'll be made. ELIHU: You mean charity ... hey, that's tremendous. Like Franklin did in Philly with his \Help Prevent Gout\ Telethon. Pretty soon we'll be famous enough to en- · dorse things like Franklin's doing with that magazine, and Hamilton's wristwatch boost isn't bad either. ELIPHALET: I'm beginning to think that charity isn't our line, guys. But I just had a better idea. How about feeding 'em the do-good bit and the make-money bit at the same time . . . how about a lottery? We could promo a lottery with no sweat in this neck of the woods. TOBIAS: Okay, we got the financial end under control ... but what about the name for this college? We gotta have some• thing snappy. ELIPIIALET: Well God is out. We alien- ate too many people that way. How about a pitch aimed at the Stars and Stripes idea? ·· · · : €

6 The Saturday Evening Blast Let's Stop Coddling Collegiate Myths , ~ T E\ ' Eln· ., nwntati ~ ,n {lL't'l~d at tiw bl'- A~~llltllng PI ~· \ · t · ry l 111 u n l :: ,lJe gt· y t · ar. \h t· :·~·r t ·t·~ ,,f thv volkge are mas~ ~.· J tt• in - ; ~l :i ! 111l1 • tiw \\·aiting ears uf fru s h :ht · boat- :. , ad \f ~ ra J itilln ~h a t Elphald ;\;ott t u \wd . ; , .w !; ~:;,. \IPh:t\\ ' k b<>hind him. In tht ' tra- ' i l l ill!l , . : · B(lb ,:\: v whart and L t' nny B l'lll ' ( ' . l \ '·' • : Ild i ikt· t . , gin' an i mpres~i,,n ,,f what Lf t· : tt l'niun t \1lkgE:' was l' t> ally likt• at the \ :m e an d alsu tt' fu r nish :-;om~. · mul'l.' Imagi- n a t1 \'l' t · xplana tlons for C niun Cullege t ra- ... htion than t hose which haw been n·peated f o r c t•nturi C'S . '1'he :>cent · is Ft•n · o·s restaurant in 1795 F < 'ITlJ ' s i::-: agek , ss. Sitting a t a larg e t abl e in t>lll' of thP big ret'eption rooms is a :.; ath(•ring of canal boat travelers. As our , a nll · ra Jollit:·s i n for a closeup . \\'l' see a t .'l'U~t~· • J ld r• : prubate named Elphalet ~ott hulding colll'l over six of his henchmen. The th P mP music dies down and the dia- i u gue begins: EIJPH.-\LET: What a draggy place to run out of g reens: I n e ver saw such a n0- whPre town. What's the name of this jerk- water anyway'? TOBIAS: 1 right-hand man) Schenectady ur somethin'. I don ' t know: all thE:>se Indian name~ sound the same to me ... What do \\.L' have to come here for anyway. Lip? i'~LIPHALET: You know as well as I do, Tobv. Franklin's on us at the Patent Of- tin• · about that iron stove boost we pulled off last month . .. infringement of patent rights or something like that . It ' s a bum rap. I know it and you know it, but he pulls a lot of weight in Philly. We gotta lay out for a while and this looks like the best place. 1\:obody's ever come here. ISAAC: But, Boss, what do we do for bread V·:hile we wait for things to cool. I mean. \Ve gotta eat. We can't live on this cheap dago garbage for too long. EL.IPHALJ<:T: Cool it, Ike. That's what we're here for. We ' ve gotta think. The stoves are out , the steamboats are out too By C. }. .\I E.\'CLES after that accident up in Buffalo. We need a new dodge . . . something respectable, something that's got good old Calvinistic morality behind it. I<:LIHr: How about those brass eagles for over the mantelpiece ... they moved ok last year. I<:LIPHALET: No good ... no good. We've got no money for brass. It's gotta be some- thing with no initial outlay, something cheap that we can sell dear ... something intangible . . . TOBIAS: You mean religion? ELIPHALET: No good ... Can't sell any- thing new in that line around here. Re- formers got it sewed up. The population is a bunch of masochists ... they eat up that \ no dancing, no drinking, no dicing\ bit. But you're on the right track. ELHH ' : This is tough on me . got your k i nd of education, Lip. I ain't ~LIPHAI.ET: Wait a minute . wait a minute. Toby. you ' re a genius. 1\:ow you guys are thinking . The rub e s will buy that . They'r e fnr education likE:' crazy. But you c an ' t just put a school up here. I mean you gotta sell more than education . . . you gotta sell patriotism, God, mother. the whole bit. But ke e p storming, guys , we got a tiger here! What about the ' F'rench Rev- olution .. we oughta be able to tie that in too . J<:lLIHU: Yeah, it's a good idea for a boost, but what about greens ... we need money. TOBIAS: That's no sweat. With an idea like education, we can always raise the greens. The important thing is that we're boosting a respectable dodge. They'll love it! I<:LlPHALET: How about this: we set up a big ad campaign ... \Give a dollar to the college of your choice.\ Now we're the only college around here ... we'll be made. ELIHU: You mean charity ... hey, that's tremendous. Like Franklin did in Philly with his \Help Prevent Gout\ Telethon. Pretty soon we'll be famous enough to en- dorse things like Franklin's doing with that magazine, and Hamilton's wristwatch boost isn't bad either. EUPHALET: I'm beginning to think that charity isn't our line, guys . But I just had a better idea. How about feeding 'em the do-good bit and the make-money bit at the same time .. . how about a lottery? We could promo a lottery with no sweat in this neck of the woods. TOBIAS: Okay , we got the financial end under control ... but what about the name for this college? We gotta have some- thing snappy. ELIPHALET: Well God is out. We alien- ate too many people that way. How about a pitch aimed at the Stars and Stripes idea? I { . : . I · . . ~ . \ ' ( . ' \ • . ' Q Nc L IS IO wi EI thi \\'( To ho Ft · Ih IU trr EI a Fr l'a IL th yo Jut E\ ll1l l\il \\ ' 1 go pi: m: i s . wi th: de ab in Fr Iz: it ta : EI he ab de R ; yo ab go th (R lik EI Si( in It' th . R 1 yo on he str to Nr it' : EI in1 In tis se t in yo He R i it

t l't . a ou Stt. ou ou ou he ~ot ~v­ tat st, ~y. Lea :he 're >ve up the the .de. tt'S illy on. en· · 'ith tch hat had the the We : in end ::tme • me• .ien- Jout ipes ~ r ·· l ' ... ' . l ~ , ; l. I I \ i , I I · I· . J ·· ~ · . . November 9, 1962 Let's Stop Coddling ISAAC: I got it, I got it! \UN ION.\ That's perfect. Adams will love it! ELIPHALET: Now you guys are thinkin,'. Do you think we can work in the French Revolution, Toby? All the farme:rs are pretty hot for the · French Revolution . .. Hey, wait a minute, . wake up Frog ... Hey, Ramee, chrissake, Hey, wait a minute, make up Frog ELIPHALET: Well, that's about it. Let's check in at the \Y\ and start WOl ' k tomorrow. I got an idea about fixing a boat race ove1· in Boston, but I gotta think. And don't forget to call up that crazy little . squarehead in New York . . . what's his name? . . . Hey, Ramee, chrissake, J a ques, if you can't drink that CAREER cianti without falling asleep, RAMEE : Steinmetz, Boss. ELIPHALET: Yeah, .Steinmetz ... that's it. Get him over here, he'll be good for color . . . we need a . couple of nuts. He's got some ideas aboat eccentricity ... TOBIAS: Electricity, Boss , elec- tricity. leave it alone! I ~!!~~:an~~:~·? boss. Whatza op · po · · RT · u · N· · ITIES ELIPHALET: We're go~n~ start · ·. . . • . • • .· • a college. We gotta be m the I ~~:;;;,~0::::::. ~~~h =~\ :::: FOR . . . that s w1ld, Lip . . . but I 1 ~~~~~~~ !o~ief~~ :~h t!;u~e~~ · · EN · · GINEE :·· ·: · RI . · NG lutwn? How about a motto~ · • , · Everybody else has got Latin 1 · • · • . mottos ... \Veritas\ and that · Kind of chutzpah. We'll kill ·em GRADUATES with a F':ench motto. bl think \ . . . · . . . . . • . . . . . got one m my carpet ag some- place. Lemme look ... (rum- mages in carpetbag) , . . Here it . is. It's left over from that deal • with Minnie Talbot's Orphanage . I n that we tried · to promote last year ... \We All Become Brother Un- e d~r the Law.s of Minerva,\ how about that? I comes out like this in French: \Nous Devonons ' Tous · • a growing a dynamic company industry Twelve and 18-month com- 7 ELIPHALET: Yeah, that's it ... electricity. Sounds wild, but the rubes will love it. Well, let's get going, tomorrow is another day. The small party walks to Fer- ro's bar and . pays their tab while Nott makes a deal to get his stud- ents a discount of 20%. Freres Sous Les Lois de Minerve.\ Izzat OK? I know it's long and it hasn't got the class that \Veri- tas\ has, but it's French. ELIPHALET: That's got class . . . it's OK. And don't let me hear any of you talking us down about \Veritas.\ I don't want any defeatists on this team. prehensive training courses • Good starting salary with SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE WHEN HE VISITS YOUR CAMPUS. RAMEE: Hey, Boss, as long as you're building a college, how . about those plans I drew up that got rejected for Monticello. I think they could do the trick . . . (Rummages in carpetbag again) . . . here they are. How do you like that building in the center . . . isn't that a grabber? ELIPHALET: The ones on the side are great . . . but this one in the center . . . it's too far out. It's pornographic . . . I don't think: so. RAMEE: Whatza matter. All you do last week is lecture me on how to sell those stoves. And believe me, it's tough to sell stoves. And believe me-, it's tough to sell stoves with a sex pitch. Now I do good and you tell me it's too far out . . . :ELIPHALET: OK, Stop blubber- . ing. You can have the building in the center. But that adver- tisement for your architectm·al services can't go on the roof in English. The only way I'll let increases every 6 months during training program • Career development plan • Promotion from within • Employee benefits among best in country PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY you put that plug in would be in Newark, New Jersey Hebrew. RAMEE: OK, Boss · · · Hebrew ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST SUPPLIERS OF ENERGY it is . Look for our booklet in your placement office • ._.._._,_,_ ___ _ _________________________ ~--- · - ---

a ou at. ou ou ou he ;ot ~v­ lat st. =Y· lea ;he 're >Ve up the the . de. tt's illy on. en- ·ith tch hat 1ad the the We ; in end 1me me- ien- )QUt ipes I ( .: ' f. ' .. 1 (. ' \ \ · .Q November 9, 1962 Lcf's Stop Coddling ISAAC: I got it, I got .it! \C.:-\ ION.\ That's J>Prfl'l't. Adam~ will lo\'e it! ELIPHALET: Now you guys a!'l' thinkin'. Do you think \\'t' !':til work in the Freneh R<•Yoiution, Toby? All the farmers arr ]'ll'l'tty hut for tlw Frl'lll'h Re\·oiution ... Hry, wait a minutL•, wakP up Frog· ... H P y, Ranwe, chrissakl', HL·y, wait a minutP, make up Frog ELI.PHALET: Wt>ll, that'~ about it. Lt>t'~ ehl'ek in at tlw \Y\ and ~tat·t work toHJOrrow. I got an idt>a ahuut fixing a boat t'a<'l' over in Boston, hut I gutta think. And don't forgt't to eall up that l't'aZy littlt> squan·lwa.d in ~ew York ... what's his nunw'? J{A~IEE: StPinml'lz, Bo~s. ELIPHALET: Y t•ah, Stt>innwtz ... that's it. (;et him · over ht•rt • , lw'll bt· good for color . . . \\'l' lll'ecl a couple of nuts. liP's got ~onw idt·a~ about <'<'<'Pilt'l'icity ... TOBI.\S: Eltt<·tri<:ity, Bo,;:-;, l'lec- tri<\ity. ... Hey, Ranwe, l'hri~~akt•, Ja(]ues, if you ean't drink that ·:C . . A · · RE ·· . E · .R danti \\'ithout falling asleep, leave it :donr! HA:\IEE: Sorry, ho~~. Whatza t1·ouhle, anyway'? ELIPHALET: We'n• gunna start a college. We gotta til· in tlw French RPvolution with it. What ean yol:l do? IL\:\IEE: A collrgt' ... mon dieu! . . . that's wild, Lip ... hut I think it's too far out. You say you want a til• in with the >·evo- lution'? How about a motto? E\'erybod~· else ha~ got Latin mottos ... \Vl•ritas'' and that l{ind uf ehutzpah. W(:'ll kill erH \\'ith a French motto. I think I got one in my earpPthag ;-;on1l·· place. Lemme look . . . ( l'Ulll- mages in carpetbag) ... Hen• it H;. It's left over from that deal with .:\1 inllil• Tal but·~ 0 rphanagt· that we tried to promote last yL·ar ... \We All Become Brother l..:'n- der the Laws of Minerva,\ how about that? I comes out like this ' in French: \Nous Devonons Tous OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERING GRADUATES • • 1n a grow1ng • a dynamic company industry 7 ELIPH.\LET: Y<'ah, that's it ... t · h•<·tricity. Sound s wild, l.1ut thl' rulws will lovt• it. Wt•ll, !d's get going, tomon .. w i;-; another day. Tlw small party walks to Fer- l ' o's bar and pay~ tlwir tab while :\ott makt·s a ch·al to gl't his stud- t.'llls u discount of 20 . Freres Sous Les Lois de Minerve.\ Izzat OK? I know it's long and it hasn't got the class that \Veri- tas\ has, but it's French. ELIPHALET: That's got class ... it's OK. And don't let me hear any of you talking us down about \Veritas.\ I don't want any defeatists on this team. RA:\lEE: Hey, Boss, as long as you're building a college, how about those plans I drew up that got rejected for Monticello . I think they could do the trick ... (Rummages in carpetbag again) . .. here they are. How do you like that building in the center ... isn't that a grabber? ELIPHALET: The ones on the Twelve and 18-month com- prehensive training courses • Good starting salary with SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE WHEN HE VISITS YOUR CAMPUS. side are great ... but this one in the center ... it's too far out. It's pornographic . . . I don't think so. RA:\lEE: Whatza mattPr. All you do last week is lecture me on how to sell those stoves. And bel irve me, it's tough to sell stoves. And believe me, it's tough to sell stoves with a sex pitch. Now I do good and you tell me it's too far out ... ELIPHALET: OK, Stop blubber- ing. You can have the building- in the center. But that adver- tisement for your architectural services can't go on the roof in English. The only way I'll let every 6 months . Increases during training program • Career development plan • Promotion from within • Employee benefits among best in country PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY you put that plug in would be in Newark, New Jersey Hebrew. RA:\IEE: OK, Boss · · · Hebrew j ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST SUPPLIERS OF ENERGY it is. ... ··· .:········· look for our booklet in your placement office. . .. ·········

8 Subversity -Have Normally reliable sources today disclosed that Intelligence reports had uncovered the presence of seventeen subversive devices on a remote island. Intelligence re- ported that the devices, foreign in nature to the island, were be- ing secured rapidly and camou- flaged in a last-ditch effort to avoid detection by the outside world. The builders of these devices first secured influence in the island many years ago but have gained in strength during recent years through infiltration of higher echelons, constant pro- paganda, and a successful attempt to mask their true designs from the ignorant native population of the under-developed area. Tour- ists were being warned by Intel- ligence reports to stay away from the island and not to be deceived by the intoxicating propaganda said to have overcome the na- tives. While the island continues to . put a bold face to the world, re- ports indicate that its economy is declining rapidly. All the is- land's natural resources are being channeled into the offensive de- vices, and, despite repeated warn- ings by most of the country's leading economists, higher auth- orities are paying little attention The Saturday Evening . Blast You Contributed? to the misuse of theil· natural resources. This, in turn, is forc- ing some economists to flee the country, and replacements are not easily attracted. In addition, foreign trade · is falling appreci- ably, and the foreign powers di- recting the build-up are reported unable to make up the difference. These powers have offered the people little besides propaganda. The standard of living remains primitive, but the people, though starving, continue to succumb to the propaganda assault. Rebel bands have gained only slight support, and the population at large is unwilling to revolt. Historians have traced the in- filtration of the island to the revolutionary movement which transformed the homeland of the Island's subjectors. Benevolent in origin, the revolutionary move- ment offered high ideals of social advancement to the people of its own nation. These social ideals were later hardened pseudo-moral tools of oppression by a dictator- ial ruling class. A notable feature of the new government was a caste system presided over by the privileged \party members.\ Their country was subsequently isolated, other nations refusing (Continued on Page 14) j) (! '4t Best Service in Town ONE DAY SERVICE · Rock Y . our · R · o · l_l_al-ike-is-e-as-ily-a-ns-w-er-ed-: -Is-th-e 1 : 1 SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 I O% Discount to Union Men Enioy Our Sizzling Steaks and Chops Union Pharmacy 600 Union Street Where Union College boys have gathered for over 50 years. FR 4-3605 SKI INSTRUCTORS Week-end positions available for skiers to instruct .high school boys and girls. Prior instructions experi- ence not required. Good compensa- tion. Excellent ski facilities . Write or Call: SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP Shaker Road, Uebanon, N. Y. Leb. Springs 7-1255 430 State St. CANNON BATH TOWELS 36x66 inches Imprinted with Union College Seal $3.98 ._ _______________________ __ SE~E£4 FR7-2155 1 585 Van Vranken Ave. Laundry Dry Cleaning Chinos Shirts FAST & DEPENDABLE SERVICE 0 NEW 0 Coin Operated WASHERS - and DRYERS = CAMPU ' S CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 In these times which so unfair- . ly establish higher education as · the prerequisite for success in life, •. it is refreshing to see that there is justice for the ignorant. Let '· us 1ook at Tin Pan Alley, the aorta of this great nation's music industry, the place where any- ' · body has a chance. -\\\\\'\\\'\\\\\\'\\'\\\\\\\' Rarely seen are the writers of SAVE ON PHIL'S OWN BRANDS! @Jti/ £.11.1j.Lw.aMIJ ~ liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 American popular music. These men never let anything like the study of English grammar or mu- sic theory interfere with their · I aeative genius. It matters not ! that their collective vocabulary totals little more than one h·un- dred English words. That lyri- cists frequently expire their knowledge of our language in a single musical venture is of little consequence. They invent their own words. Certainly it takes no extensive scholastic achievement to create such phrases as \Did- dle-De-Dum\ or \Papa-Oom- Mow-Mow.\ One is tempted to ask what significance a simple subject and predicate have when compared to the euphonious ly- rics of today's music. The an- swer is simple: \None.\ Let us not overlook the fact that these humble men, uncor- rupted by learning, are leaders in the fight against that most obnoxious practice of the liter- ary: syntax. They work long hard hours in their drive to bring the essential simplicity of early American culture back into the contemporary scene. As classical composers have consistently used the fugue of Bach as their in- spiration in writing, the genius of Tin Pan Alley bases much of its music on one of the greatest early developments in American culture: the Apache wardance. However, I do not mean to im- ply that American song writers are plagirists. The charge that most \rock n' roll\ songs sound youth of this country so stupid 1! · <\ that he would spend his parents' : 1 hard-earned money on two or i more songs which sound identi-J · cal? Ridiculous. Only the edu- ~. cated, exposed to different styles, i are capable of plagirism. I · Th~n there is the. p~:son ch~rg-• .. · ed w1th the respons1b1hty of smg- 1 ing what the composer writes. ' : This individual is known to any 1 t . 11 year old girl as the artist. In- ~ teresting name. The only criteria ~ for work as a singer are talent, ! · . voice quality, a sense of rhythmi/ and a sense of pitch, all totally absent. One need never have had any singing lessons in order to, perform as a vocalist on a re- : cording. All it takes is sex ap - peal, an interesting human qual- , ity, which today, for some reason, 1 ! j seems to be genetically linked with musical ability. Lastly, there is the American, youth, the target o:f Tin Pan Al-~ ley's labors. It is this fellow who . goes · to the TV studio after a full day of vandalism at school. He 1 appears on a \teen bandstand\ j . show. On local, and sometimes : national, television, he and his. ,l ( • partner go through the grind of something like a slow dance. \ Thus the young people of this na- tion are shown how much fun ' they are missing by doing their · homework. The emcee of this · sort of show is frequently a disct jockey: a congenial, outgoing, and · unflinchingly honest individual. His complete lack of grammatical · integrity makes him a naturai · for communicating with the · youngsters. So what we have in Tin Pan Alley today is a glorious circus, a circus of non-academic fellows and gals, lacking both talent and brains, but making great money. And though the recording indus- . try may be a cultural sahara, it is by no means unjust to the per- · . son without a B.A.; the clod reigns f · supreme. ' • · '

. .. , ' t , J . . r _, J __ , I ,, :t J -~e-d :-Is-th-e l l r so stupid 11 · 1!' 1is parents' : l on two or I -und identi-) ly the edu- ~ ­ ! rent styles, 1 1 . sm. . lrson charg-• . · lity of sing- ! · >ser writes.) · • own to any 't . l artist. In- 1 only criteria ~ - . are talent, ! ·. ~ of rhythmij , .all totally · er have had · in order to 1 3t on a re- · s is sex ap- mman qual- 1 l · • ;;orne reason, I cally linked 1e American, Tin Pan Al-l s fellow who > after a full school. He 1 bandstand\ i - · d sometimes [ he and hiS· • r < t the grind . slow dance. ! le of this na- v much fun · · doing their . ncee of this · uently a disct mtgoing, and t individual. grammatical · n a naturai · with the · in Tin Pan orious · circus, lemic fellows th talent and great money. ording indus- ral sahara, it st to the per- . ;he clod reigns ! I ' o ·' November 9, 1962 What College Students Really Believe by Soppy Alsoup Following its policy of constantly keeping its collective finger on the pulse of campus opinion, the Saturday Evening Blast presents the following scientific survey for the purpose of discerning college opinions concerning most of the vital issues con- fronting us today. Following are a series of thought-provoking questions with sev- eral possible responses. We request all answers to be folded in the shape of a boat and dropped into the \brook that bounds\ in the hope that they will float upstream, in salmon fashion, to Phi Epsilon Pi where the new Blast office will be located, con- trary to previous announcements. 1. In tomorrow's game, Susquehanna will: 7. The Idol was at one time: a. reach three figures b. lose from excessive laughter c. · play Bates instead d. spring Tommy Makem as their secret weapon 2. Dean Huntley retired because: a. his is the only office not being renovated b. he's sick of seeing his same picture in the last seventeen catalogues c. Prof. Fried, after a thorough examination, recommended a complete rest 3. The funniest laugh on campus is owned by: a. Prof. Finkelstein b. Joseph Finkelstein c. Nadia Finkelstein's husband d. Bill Allen 4. Prof. Doress left for Australia because: a. He couldn't get a date for Fall Week-end b. He was interested in what happened to Ava Gardner after the last camera faded in On The Beach c. He felt himself woefully Ullable to cope with the intellectual challenge of Union students 5. Knot is actually written by: a. Dean Pollack who is schizophrenic b. the campus cops c. Bob Ridings d. \Mama Frog\ 6. Washburn is being torn down because: a. Prexy discovered that the building's crescent shape had inspired the women in the book store to conduct nocturnal moon-worshipping rites in direct competition to Vesper Services b. Dean Pollack felt ostracized in his old office c. it destroyed the grey-stuccoed monotony of the rest of the campus a. a losing football coach who was cemented alive b. what Chester Arthur really looked like c. a repository for those hidden copies of \Beer for the Kitty\ (Ask a professor to explain) 8. Fill in the following blanks - 9. 10. a. My choice for the most absurd professor is b. The book store's prices are above list price c. Name ONE play that can be produced in the- ater-in-the-round: ________ _ d. The inventor of the cure-all green and pink pill is the resident physician of _____ _ college Perliminary news from the Admissions office fore- shadows: a. the admittance of 150 more prep school stu- dents and a drop of 300 points on the S.A.T. scores b. the admission of four times the number of students from New York City and the subse- quent secession of fifteen fraternities c. a drastic reapportionment of geographic loca- tions with sixteen Eskimo junior high school applicants admitted The most startling news of the next semester will be: a. Prof. Art Lawrence Will be chosen to replace Dean Huntley b. The Mountebanks will produce a play known to more than .5% of the campus c. twelve cheer-leaders will mysteriously be found dead in their rooms with their mega- phones jammed down their throats d. Dean Huntley and Dean Pollack will switch :first initials and Prof. Ullman will reverse his middle two. 9

: .: ~ ·.' : ·- ' ~ ' . 1 ' \·

~ - -­ _.,

... tt ··.· . . . i \·.·, • . · . ' ~-.~ .. ~0 ' •· · · ~·\\\ - .. ·, .· · ·- ·· . ~ · . .. ... :. . ... ,_ _,....,. f .. .. ... ·• -- - - ---:___ I didn~t invite Pollack:; did you? .... ' , .. ·• ,

II - ·.; ~ I , •· ' I I Now we ' v e got · you , Superman I didn't · . . . ~ · .· ··:· ···· · \ · . : · P InVIte ollack d.d - ' 1 you? - . --- - - .' .' ...... fiJ. · :-i~­ (l':.' .. ;'t.JA . ,. ... ~··!\\'·· · ·· ,; '· l;• ~ 'c . . -- . : . ,~~;r~: ~ .,

---- --- - - - --- -·- ··- -- · -- - - -- - - - - - - - - · -- -- - - · - - --- -- - - - 12 The Saturday Evening Blast My Life As A Small Town By Richard R. Rosford as told to Lucrezia Mott MY PARENTS were honest but poor, all of them in fact. The early years of my life were spent in the small town of Mo- hawk, New York, directly across from the cheese capital of New York State, the thriving town of Herkimer. The town was named after that great Revolutionary War hero, General Nicholas Herkimer, who gal- lantly led his entire company of men into ambush, was wounded, and had his leg amputated under a large tree, at the same time bleeding to death and directing the remainder of the ambush. For this he had an hotel and a town named after him. Naturally, my formative years spent in the shadow so to speak, of this great hero caused me to look favorably on various forms of amputation and to feel, being sound of limb, that something was not missing in my life. Actually, growing up in such an historic area as Herkimer county greatly influenced my life. Some of my earilest memories were of Mother and Father taking me about the county in a hansom to look at various histoncal mark- ers listing the places where George Wash- ington had slept while visiting the cheese industries. As · a mother once said - if Washington had slept in all the places they said he did; he really must have been the father of this country. When not thinking about Washington, I often thought about . Victory Gardens. Dur- ing WWII all the citizenry grew Victory Gardens to assist the war effort on account of the duration. My family also had a Vic- tory Garden in which we mainly grew to- matoes. At the age of five years I was an uncertain shot and thus worried at times about repelling any Germans foolish enough to invade either Herkimer or Mo- hawk - for I , fully understood that the tomatoes We grew were strictly for de- fense. Even today,- after the passage . of many years, when confronted with a real tomato I am slightly on the defensive. But, I digress - you are interested in hearing about my early life. .. , . . ~ · Part One of 24 Part Serialization Every evening at about six o'clock we had beer at an open-air restaurant just by the water. We liked watching the steamer come puffing across the lake and then stop at the pier and land the passengers. One evening when Wheeler (The Methodist Minister) had paid for the beer and we were about to walk back to the pension, he suddenly stood stock still, clutched my Aunt Rosner's arm and said, \Jumping Jesus, that's my wife!\ My mother merely looked cooly at his and said: \I don't un- derstand you Alan, and so far it has al- ways paid off.\ Later that evening I was asleep and bus- ily dreaming about Nickolas Herkimer when my Aunt Mederise came moodily into my room, I awoke and watched her walk slowly to the white marble fireplace where she threw two. green vases on the floor. She bounced me gaily on her knee until I was sick and recounted a long story about General Washington and my Great-Grand- mother, Prudence. After his last visit to Herkimer County Prudence retired from active life and spent her time making cheese. When asked about the GeneraFs visit, she would mumble and roll her eyes. Today, a State Historical Marker indicates the spot where the first cheese was made. I remember the beautiful public library in Mohawk and the drinking fountain do- nated by the Daughter's of the American Revolution. The fountain was inscribed with the motto \Come Pure In Heart Be- fore This Hallowed Fane Your Hands Fresh Sprinkled With The Fountain Spray: Few Drops the Good Need; But a Democratic Stain All Ocean's Water Shall Not Wash Away. I recall that we children liked the fountain best because several large Republican Box- er dogs were able to drink from it, thus satisfying a variety of biological needs. Both the fountain and the library were shaped like a large cheese and the foun- tain, did, at times, give off the character- istic odor of ripe Iimburger. All, however, was not sweetness and light in Mohawk, New York, population 3,220. Nobody laughed when my Uncle Ezra, with a strong assist from conserva- tive Republicans, sponsored a bill in the town council to spay women school-teach- - ers-thus creating a last minute flurry of activity among ladies of the teaching pr.o- ~. fession. Mrs. Ezra Bickford, Uncle Ezra's :. wife, will long be remembered for her heroic resistance. As Mrs. Bickford will · - say if anyone brings up the subject of the late Mr. Bickford's proposal - \Nobody laughed then, and nobody's laughing now.\ (To be continued) ~ . (It : - - - \' . ' ~\ :l ;::. . ~\~; !:~ ~f o ~ ~ ~~ r I ,, , .. . , ~ :· :/·-;_. , . \/ •. ·· , . , ·'- ... (li > . ~ ' ! i I I ' 0 ' I ' 1 '

st led Be- ['he . a in ox- n us ~ds. ·ere un- t er- and :ion 1cle :-va- the tch- - ' of ?J:O-~, ra:'s: . her will · the ody IW.\ ' \ . -~ - - - -~. '. ·.' \ : :y· .• . , . •'/•. • jt{~·~< : ~ ,, ,:· . · . \:: · I ~ · ? :: ?}'~ ·~~: :~:;: -~ . : : •,·-~~ ~· : - ,: ~ :~~~ .·~:-~~~~-~~ · __ ; , ~:~~:;::~ ~:·~ ~:: --:~ : ~:'~= :=,:~ :~~~~~~:~-~ =~-~':_-~:.:··~;:i :: .. ... ' \:'';\\~~:~?::.~--- .. ::·: · : =-~~ - - ~~ - ~:-:r-·:;-c ~·~--. - ~~ - - . · -c~ , . --c ··- - · · . -. \,·-;· -- · . \'\ . '~-- :c ....... ·- .. ·.--·--·. -- · --c- \'\.' ,' ............... . . t. . . .. ------------- · ___ ..:..., ___ _________ __ , _______ ' 1 ' i ~ ~ - - l l ' 1 ! ~\ 1 . I 1) ; ' } . \ 1:55 .' . ; . 1:56 ... 1:57 ... \ · . , · ·.:\ ~ T . ___r: .....J_ 7 ~ LL I ....., 1- H I I I - ''So this -is Carnegie Hall\ · .. . ' l ' I l ~ --· . I- I ! j ll '. I .l ' l t. 1 t . I . l ' I. I I · I ~ · I· L .· t . . l ' ' I I ' J l I I .i l l . . I i i ~ : I : i > I ~ . ~ ' i I ' 'I I I I I I . j i l i ' ·· \Want to embarrass everyone?\ \Boy these upp~rclassmen are wild\ \T~ose aren't upperclassmen\ l · . ~ . i .. · ·· ~: .' ! . ~ . . ,· ( i ' . . .. I '. ' t . . ' l . I i I . ! !

- - - ~-.- -- -· Viri Diana 117 Mohawk Ave. Spanish Drama SCOTIA, N.Y. Grand Prize Winner 1< i< -1< SHOW TIME 7:00- 9:00 Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. Cannes Festival A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT . Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and · Erie Blvd. Large parties accomodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 For three Generations ••• 'fhose Who Know ... Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Granbart & Sons \lay Street Jewelers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY A Blast Forecast 10 years from now The Union College football team was beaten by P.S. 63 47 - 0. ~ . The Union College intramural football team beat Ohio State . 83-0. A certain Union professor af- ter ten years exile in Australia has decided to come back to dear old Schenectady. It is believed that \On the Beach\ has ended. Union College has decided to build a Robert Porter Patterson Memorial Library after all. The Union College Flying Club will hold a meeting next Thurs- day over Bailey Hall. 20 years from now Skidmore authorities have re- ceived a complaint from the Dean of Students of Union College, it was learned today. It seems that certain innocent Garnet freshmen in recent weeks have been molest- ed by Skidmore coeds. Unless these vile actions cease, retalia- tory moves will be taken, it is believed. The Union College Admissions Office has publicly admitted that 1 it has been seeking . boys profic- ient in Curling. One official stat- ed privately that the Admissions Department felt that if it \couldn't do it in football, after twenty years, Curling was the next b e st bet .\ 30 years from now Melvin Ludwig '73 accomplish- ed last week the greatest feat man has ever seen when he be- came the first man to land on Venus after a 64 four day rocket journey. Unfortunately, though, his destination was the moon. Good luck Melvin! The Idol has finally wasted away-. Ever since freshmen or- ientation was abolished last year the poor thing has never been the same . Pili Epsilon has been awarded the Brown Cup as the outstand- ing fraternity on campus for the first time in 100 yea1·s. Ever since stereo sets, sports cars, and leaving Union Colleg·e on weekday Hi U's president, Sanford Guild- nights were prohibited last year, HiU's academic average has l'isen fantastically. Hi U's presi - dent, Sanford Guildersleeve , stat- ed that he thought compulsory library attendance was another factor in his fraternity's rise to the top . 40 years from now The person who writes the knot has been disrovered, His name could not be a scertained, though . There was no identi f ication on his person when he was found, hang - ing from the flagpole. A card was attached to the . noose. It read \This was the guy who dared to criticize the Trustees.\ There were no signatures on the card. Th e weekly Schenectady-Sara- toga rocket r a ce on Saturday af- ternoon has replaced football as the main fall sport at Union Col- lege. Also intramural athletic points will be awarded to the fraternity who gets the most phone calls through to Skidmore on Thursday night between the hours of 10:30 to 11:30 P.M. Russell Sage finally has a cam- pus. A three by four foot plot has been dug in front of one of · the dorms and grass has been planted. The coeds are all excited about the thought of lying out in the sun during the spring, but it could get a little crowded. 1,000,000 years from now Joe Ugh, 1,001,962 recently married Josephine Agh by deftly knocking her over the head with a club. They are now residing in South Cave 413. ~ ----~ f Subversity- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. · , fRANK FERRARO ' 1 (Continued from Page 8) the island s t ill believe these in- stallations to be innocent and de- fensive. In the absence of a volte-face by the island's ruling clique (which doesn't appear imminent), the island's i solation and contin- ued foreign domination are vir- tually assured. The p v imitive population is blissfully unaware of the island's continued diverg- ence from the increasingly civil- ized path of neighboring under- developed nations. Field's Liquor Store 38 ERIE BOULEVARD (Across from Train Station) ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• SAVE ON OUR OWN Olde Village PRIVATE LABEL SPIRITS ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• -WE DELIVER FREE~ FR4-6846 Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus to accept their socio-moral ty- ranny. However, this island and others were beguiled by their corrupt rulers into accepting the totalitarian regin1e. The new form of subtle intellectual colon- 1231 CRANE STREET ialism provided a cover for the Schenectady, N. Y. , .-::i ,~ frection of \offensive\ devices. 01 6. 1763 All reports l ' eaching the outside world indicate that the people of for the finest in custom clotLing and :furnishings 14 S. 44tL St. • New Yor~ 17, N.Y. D&J AUTO StRVICE 1372 UNION ST. Brakes, Tune Up, Wheel Alignment and Bah:mce Dl 6-4895 01 6-9644 UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT UNION INN-517 Union St. RICCITELLO'S Erie Boulevqrd c;at Jay Street -}~­ Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks-Chops SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS • f • (! , . ' . (.• •c. ' a ; r ' t • (tl 'f t ('> i ~, ., :ri l i f' t < I i ' .' :J ·l l .. . ) .. r ,. I ' , . ·, ' . ·. I ' ] Cc C1 As of bo 1 organ ' merit - to thE menti• mark~ The dergr ~ the m with , balan< fresh 11 senior fers ~ the I equiv~ tion- to the \Hit I therE of car langtl : tard 1 the b : eleme which healtl ent C unsuc . fact 1 inatio tus tc emy). Th e betwe leade1 extent memb ilarit~ true prom< field, facilit ing l both progr ThE iency of th< an in in thE is cent forcef thwat trodu Unior atten• (most up) l the trade and licity other quite ulty- ence · ferou: frigh1 ters t co ere< aU, in bu clit i on permi

the knot name though. on his nd, hang- A card It read dared to There (' • (!. . ' . (' the card. ' t ady-Sara- af- as Col- • (!.1 athletic to the he most Skidmore the P.M. a .cam- foot plot of one of has been excited out in ng, but it w recently by deftly head with esiding in these in- and de- volte-face clique mminent), contin- are vir- pvimitive unaware diverg- civil- ng under- i' .' J ·tl ···1. I I' .. I •/ hops '!J I' ] College Follows Cheer leaders Lead Ranked Again The Association of American College Professors recently an- nounced that Union College had the highest faculty rating of 154 men's liberal arts colleges in the United States. The rating was compiled by the Concordy sys- tem: As a result of critical analysis of both the cheerleaders and an organization of equally dubious merit-the college, I have come to the conclusion that the afore- mentioned institutions are re- markably similar. The .cheerleaders, lilt~ the un- dergraduate student body (one of the many facets of the \college\ with which I will deal) is a well balanced group. It consists of freshmen, sophomores,juniors and seniors. Like the college, it ofw fers a well balanced menu with the cheel'S ranging from the equivalent of Advanced Composi- tion-\Fight and \Go team go,\ to the counterpart of Sociology- \Hit 'em again harder\ and \Kill the ref.\ The intellectual aspect of campus life is mirrored in the language of \Retard them, re- tard them, make them relinquish the ba11,\ while the humanitarian element can be seen in a cheer which expresses concern for the health and welfare of the oppon- ent (This cheer has been deemed unsuccessful in the light of the fact that it advocates the elim- ination of the crowd's only impe- tus to cheer, the injury of an en- emy). The parallels that can be drawn between the school and the cheer- leaders are numerous and can be extended beyond similarities in membership and program to sim- ilarity of intent. Although it is true that cheerleaders want to promote improvement on the field, while the school wants to facilitate advances in l;:md-scap- ing and perhaps in ~d.ucation, both have a common desire for progress. The extent, effort, and ineffic- iency of the attempts on' the part of the cheerleaders to instil even an infinitesmal amou:nt of spirit in the silent multitudes-, is remin- iscent of the much publicized task forces, which have thus far been thwarted in their efforts to in- troduc(il the word change into the Union vocabulary. The scanty attendance at football pep rallies (most of the cheerleaders show up) leads me to conjecture that the cheerleaders would gladly trade their booster sweaters and megaphones for the pub- licity the task forces get. On the other hand, if the oft quoted, but quite unheeded, eleme:p.t-the fac- I do concede that some steps have been taken by the cheerlead- ers, and scheduled by the school. I vividly recall being distracted from my studies by a horrendous racket emanating from a smaH band of cheerleaders (who were equipped with a bugle, drum and extremely powerful vocal appara- tus) marching around Richmond yelling \Turkeys\ and \Gobble Gobble,\ in an effort to evoke a response. I also recollect a statement issued by the school noting provision for the eventual destruction of one of the most attractive structures on campus (I am not referring to Dewey H~ll or the Language Building). Even negative improvement can be considered a step in the right direction since a step in any di- rection is an improvement over the existing aura of expectance which has been unmarred by ac- tion. Perhaps when the trustees expose Shaffer Library where they can see it, they will decide it should be torn down also. I suppose I would be going too far to suggest that in a destructive mood, they might level the fra- ternities and thereby accidentally aid progress. I have heard it said that when we get a good football squad, the crowd will respond to the pleas of the campus cheerleaders. I take it then that when we get a good college, the campus community will act upon the recommenda- tions of the task forces. In any event, the almost total failure of the cheerleaders and the school to combat lack of spirit and regeneration when added to resemblances in membership cur- ricular and goals attests the val- idity of my contention that the school and the cheerleaders are remarkably similar. Points 123 doctorates x 6 points each 738 184 masters x 4 points each 736 149 bachelors x 1 point each 149 1123 The basic total is 1123 points. Added to this is the faculty at-. tendance at colloquims-28 bonus points plus the attendance when an English Professor is speaking 14 extra bonus points. The faculty is penalized 4 points for each vote against fraternities and 3 points for each honorary degree held by· the president. Extra special bonus points are given as follows: Bicycle riders 8 points Foreign accents 13 points Beards 23 points Foreign accent and beards penalized 69 points . (It should be pointed out that the Concordy system ended here, but Profs. Fumblebean, Nomorer, and Fox petitioned the Council to in- clude the following correction ratio factor). Number of Harvard Degrees 5 points each Number of Other Degrees 2 points each Number of Union Degrees penalized 3 points each There was some quibbing, how- ever, Fix arguing Harvard · should get 7 points, Fumblebean and Nomorer demanding a mod- est 5. This final total, added to the combined age of all the professors emeriti, divided by the Deans IQ gives a grand final summary quo- tient of 10,068 points. In second place was Harvard with 10,066 points. M:·AMA BIANCHI'S Restaurant 1135 Barrett Street Open Till 1 :00 A.M. on Weekdays and 3:00 A.M. on Friday and Saturday Nights - Free Parking - BRING YOUR DATES ulty-could acquire the persist- 1\\>v\\_'\\'_\\'_....... ence of a certain extremely voci- ( EXCLUSIVE BUT NOT EXPENSIVE ferous freshman who sometimes (~ · That's • • • ' frightens (his booming voice shat- SWEATERS ( coerces (\come on guys, give me > I D I A M A~ N T E ' S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON- NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M. - SUNDAYS S P .M.-3 A.M. RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadwe~y Phone FR 7-1112 ACME Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Catering to Union College Students Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5294 Two Doors From Mohawk National Bank COMPARE OUR ·----------------~----------------·· CHINO SHIRTS 20c PANTS 39c WASH ters the stillness) and sometimes ( ~ POLISHED COTTONS ( a U, will ya ?\) it might succeed ~ \L:tf IVY SLACKS ( in budging our intransigent tra- ~~SJ:Jtp,.;,. CAMPUS OUTER WEAR () SUITS -------98c SPORT JKTS .. --49c clition-permeated trustees i:ri.to ( 164 J s permitting much needed action. ( • ay t. ADLER SOCKS ~ PANTS ----- -49c Plain Sweaters 39c ( Suggestion: ~ ? Show Union Identification Card and Get Exclusive } a lbs. LAUNDRY $1.20-------lSc per lb. ? 10% OFF on All Merchandise ~ *Shirts Not Included in Laundry Weight 0~- - ~~- ~- - - - ~ ..................................................... ..



. ~ · . MO : UNTEBANKS : · REVIEW ·P - age · 2 · ' Vo . l. 92 - No . 8 . .~ .. LaJ!p Discusses Sciliuific World '· Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N . Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, · 1'962 STU · DENT COU j NCIL Page : : 4 PRICE 15 CENTS I . d 1Weeken Postponed ·, Ten Days Ban on Discrimination To Go Before Trustees IFC ' Passes Phi Delt Motion · , . · I , i i' : I: I· · , . i, ' ' t \ ' I ! ; i

Friday, Novelt'lber 16, 1962 Montebanks Review- Pan tag leize Political Prognosticator Pounces On Pundits By Carl Niemeyer by David Berenson Published Fridays during the school year by the Student BodY of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· tiona! Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc .. Colloge Pupllshers Representative. 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial 'Office, Washburn Hall. Union College, Publication Office, S~henectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway, Entered in the Sche- nectady Post Of!ice as Second Class MaH Matter. Subscription l5c a eot•Y: $3 a year dellvered anywhere in· the United States. Depending. upon which news- defeat for B~}.'ry'\Goldwater paper you read, you have been his philosop}\y. He and his fol- informed that the elections of last lowers have been clamoring that week were a great victory for the American people have been either Republicans, Democrats, li- turning to the conserva1;ive po- berals or conservatives or that sition, but the fact is that the the results are so strange that country is not ready to n:l.ake a they cannot be interpreted at aU. radical change to any position. Various commentators say that President Kennedy will have eith- er an easier time, a more diffi- Clilt time, or that there will be no change in his relations with Congress. Normally a writer for a .small college newspaper would fear to venture forth into the pre- car>ious field of political analysis which is so well staked out by the pundits. However, after read- ing some of the analyses by ,these men of high perception, the un- itiated writer can only feel that his analysis cannot significantly lower the art of political writing SENIOR BOAR() .ALFRED SOMMER '63 ........... , .... DI 6-9959 ................................. ·Editor-in-Chief STEVEN FACTOR '63 .................. EX 3-9232 .............................. Business Manager MICHAEL J. GOHDON '63 .......... FR 2-1447. .. ............ Managing Editor ' DAVE THURSTO~ '63 .................... 01 6-982.9.. .. .......................... Sports ·Editor DAVID BERENSON '64-. ........................................................................ Feature J!lditor WILLIAM T. WINNEl '34 ..................................................................................... Aiivisor JUNIOR BOARU Marty Newman· '64 .................................... .Assistant Features Editor :Martin Jay '6ii ..................................... .Assistant Ft>atures Editor Kai Schneider '63 . .. .............................. Art Editor StPve Raymond '63 ... ...... . ............. Loca.l A.dvertlsi·ng Editor Bob Bulson '64 .................................. . ................................... Subscription Editor Robert Kramer '65 ............................ .................. ...... ..... ..... ... . . .. ....... Copy Editor Larry Horowitz · 65 ........ ... . ..... ...Assistant News Editor Richard Erdoes '65 ...................... , .................................. Aesistant Sports Editor Ivens LaFlore '·64 ............................................................................ Circulation Manager Michael Berson '65 .................. .................. ......... .Associate Editor Richard Ar-un ··;~, .. Associate Ed~tOT Stanley Brau·l ·s:. . . ............. Exchange FJditor . Stuart )1nr!-w • 65 ....................... ...... . .............. ~lake.:. t:p ~dJtor REl'OR'fER STAFF Andrew Ackar, Brian Barefoot, Bill Cohen, Arnold Berkowitz. J .. C. Clemens. Fred Dill, Larry ~lcl::ray, Lawton Morrison. Riel< Scharf. Robert Sherwin. Boi:J Skloot, Peter Susman, Ellsworth •rracey, Mark Strom. In Praise Rarely does one witness the redemption of a rotten apple, but those present at the IFC meeting this week were given this privilege. Phi Delta Theta, the only fraternity on campus with a written discriminatory clause in their national constitution, proposed that any national which still maintained a discriminatory clause by Dec. 1964, be re- fused further initiations on this campus. This was a very brave and praiseworthy action, supported by the entire chapter of Phi Delta Theta, and finally passed by a unani- mous vote of the IFC. For this they've earned a new re- spect on campus. Pictur~d a~ve are Robert Skloot and· Charles Pankenier, currently appearmg m the MotJntebanks' production of \Pantagleize.\ As a part of tbe usual_Faculty j has pointed out in a preface to Column, Professor Carl Niemeyer, ithe play 'written in 1957 the Union's. popular drama critic, 1 alow1f. endures foxever by b~com­ has rev1ewed the current Mounte- · ing . a· myth. . . ban~s' pr~duction, Pantagleibe; I : ~bviously t4e fii,'s1; requirement Havmg. re.v1ew.ed the Montebauks . in .a production of thE! .play is a produch~ns fo~ more than two good clown. Bob Skloot is such a. years, hts r.evie~~ have become ~ati~factory. one. that the evening as ~uch a traditton as the pro- ts hts from beginning to end. The ductwns themselves. rest of the cast have been well Those who go to the Mounte- directed and produce a unified banks' .production of Michele de performance· but some subleties Ghelderad~'s \Pantagleize\ this have b~en ~verlooked. MacBoon, wek~nd, wtll see, as the program played by David Kohn should ap- promises, an American premiere. pear as a venerable ' and bone- The~e is ~om~thing· a litle sad and head€d general, not as a boyish a ht~e n:omc perhaps about a lieutenant-colonel. :fnnocenti, the premtere m a doomed theatre, for devoted and serious idealist the word is that this the Mount$- among the revolutionaries should banks' last production on their be a scholar in waiter's 'uiform, ~an~a Hall stage. The consola- whose last speech is moving in ~Ion 1s that\Hanna H~ll.~t;ds glor- its human.sincerity. Dennis Caye's wusly, for Pantaglexze 1s one of interpretation needs to be deep- the Mountebanks b~tter produ~- ened. Charles Pankenier success- tions. . . . . . ' . · . :r~ny- brings out the \Uncle Tom\ as practiced this year. The greatest mistake that has been made in evaluating this el- ection has been to ascribe all sortf:\ qf ideological motivations to the American electorate. We hear that the voters have comuletely repudiated the John Birch So- ciety by throwing out two Birch- ite Congressmen in California. (Actually, the California Legls- latur·e gerrymandered them out of existence,) The fact that Sena- tor Lister Hill was narrowly re- elected in Alabama supposedly in- dicates that the South .has seen its close ideological ties with Re- publican conservatism. (Actually, the voters in Alabama were pro- testing against Kennedy's Mis- sissippi policy.) The American public has prob- ably made no iqeological shift at all, but has remained where it has always been, safely in the middle of the road. It may vote for a liberal here and a conse- ative the11e, but genera1ly the el- ectorate will stand by the safe moderate. In this respect, the election ca~ be regarde!l a!'! a 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, ·N. Y. --)<: \1' --)<: SHOW TIME 7:00 .:.. 9:00 In a sense, the real victor in this campaign' has been the Ken- nedy style .of .politics, hut not necessarily the Kennedy program. Youth and pe:tsonality have ach- ieved an even greater import- ance in Unit('!c;l States .politics. The question in the 1960 presi- dential campaign was whether a forty-three year president could be elected. The election result:> two years ag,o proved that he could be, and the resul·ts this year prove that youth in government has come to be regarded as an as- set. not a q;rawback. Take a look at the closi!lY contested contests thr1mghout the country this year, and you will find that in most ifi- st!l-n~es the .rounge~ and .more dy- n~mlc of th;e can(:l.tdates won. IIi . Wisconsin Eind Indiana, yo-ung li- berals Nelson and Bayh defeated the aging incumbents, S~nators Wiley and Gapeheart. In Color- ado, Love arid Dominick, both fairly young conservatives, de- feated Governor. McNichols and Senator Carroll who proje<Jted a much less dyna,mic image. Even in Michigan, where George Rom- ney triumpl}ed over young Gov- ernor John .Swainson, the voters preferred tl}e more energetic of the two. Seeing into the future, the trend tow.ard more youthful po- liticians should continue. In fact, only by turni:~g toward the yol.ing- er· Rockefe~lers, Scrantons, Rom• ney.s, and Hatfields of their party can the Republicans hope to di- n)inish the J{ennedy lustre. In a real sense, v,:e are entering a new age in American politics,. an age of the yoti:n,g man. Viri Diana Spanish Drama Grand Prize Winner Cannes Festival Union can now boast that she will soon have a perfect record, and that theoretically the way is open for brother- hood \under the laws of Minerva.\ Two things need clari- fication however, that some members of the IFC seem to have overlooked. It must be assurned that the action taken by Phi Delt, is an expresE!ion of their moral belief that either their national conform to t:he ideals of Union, or leave campus. Some fraternities questioned a rider at- tached to the motion calling for a. policy statement by the Trustees, as to whether they would support the motion or not. They did so on the grounds that the trustees said they would follow the niotion now., and in two years through no fault of the local the clause was not removed, the na- tional might be k~cked off' campus. That is just what is supposed to happen. We believe that the origination ~f this motion by Phi Delta themselves is ample proof that they wiU try to have the clause removed, but if they can't the national must be challenged, for they will not abide by our ideals or their chapter's wishes. To beg1n at the begmmng, the !qualities of Bamboola but the play itself .is worth . doing. It is pathos of the characte~ .(certain- the old story of ~he ~terna,l clown, Jy di;fficult to catch} does not come named Pan~agleJ.ze m this play, thT(>~gh. Since Ghelderode in his but recogmzable, ·to Ame!'Jcans text makes so much of Rachel's at least, und~r such names as Jewishness, Mary Ann Matthes Charles ~haplm or Bus_ter Ke;i- 'and the dirertors might have ton. He IS the man .of mnocence made more of it on the stage and good will, cra_vi?g ~he love he .• without offending anybody. Con- never gets, precitntatmg events trasts in her character could have he never understan~s. He is part been shown more effectively too,. tramp and part phiio::;opher, for- as in the second act, when she ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~~~~~~~~~~~~ ever_ pursueg by hurly and in- al,m.1ptly stops being Pantagle- [ sens1t1ve police. In the movies of :ize's lover and become the busi~ the ~we!lties (and \Pantagleize i)ess-like re\•olutionary. These ~esptte tts touch of the \absurd ,are, however, small criticisms of m the modern sern!.e of, the term,' a production that always makes A New Frontier was writte!l in the' twenties) .. the its z:najor points effeceive'ly. . cl_own survrves at the end of .each ·I. The sets emphasize the strong picture to pursue his destiny ilL. coloring and straigl)t lines ,&ug- · th~ !\ext. one. It !Vas 9helderede'~•· 1estive of the rigid J,'eality in which b~IH!ant_Ide:;. to grye l\1s 'fFJ.rce twl-- ~he clown must ha:ve his being,; ~lC !mphcations; for unhke Ch~Jil,~ .they are- also flexible and easily jm ~antagleiz~ does not· .~ucceed 1 handled, so that rapid movement m his revolutwn:· the, pnhceman, ·jis ('!asy. aptly named . Cree~, survives', not.r · Union is lucky in having direc- th~. clo~m. Br~ta·hty and hypo· ·· ~ors like Gifford Wing~te and cnsy .tr.mt?ph m the pe_rsons of ohn Girdner, who can pr.iHg such Generalissimo and the lawyer; th,e ·play to life; I1.1cky in having muddle -headc.d re.vo_lutio_naries ctors. to appe!lr in i~; :md (l.et'.s rlnngle from the wall, ltke lrf'eless ope) lucky m havmg .an au- puppe~s; and P:a.nta.gleize joiri,s : ience that will appreCiate it. It them m death. But as Ghelde:rqde 1s worth seeing. . · . . . . The Student Council passed a. resolution two years ago raising the student tax in order to :finance a Focus Pro- gram. Because of that motion; money that presen~y is flowing into the coffers of the Student Tax Committee is not being spent. What is worse, we .still don't have a Focus Program. Uniotf ·Then and. Now By Jacob Li~b 5o Years Aio:- ............. -· - -1-J:'iief~~ is stiil 'liope,'' men .. o( M:fn-- Rather than worry about how to spend this extra Union 15, Hamilton 12-Th.e erva. mom;ly, the Student Council would be wise to worry about football season is over. To Union's initiating a new program on the foundations of the old. It. credit there are five victories, two tie games, and one defeat. In was less than two years ago that the program was founded. the winning game against Hamil- W 11 · d d · th S · f 1961 \t t tort on Saturday, Union h[)f:!Jped e receive· on campus urmg , e prmg o • 1 a - up the. biggest score it has made tracted wide support from the Student Body, and the faun- in any single game this year- dations were poured. Last year it disintegrated, before fifteen tallies. The whole story of Union's success can be briefly ever having gotten off the ground. This was indeed unfor- summed up by an expression from tunate, for the program offered means of combining the the Hamilton weekly newspaper. \Union has completed one of the various curricula on campus, while engendering a student most brilliant football seasons in intellectual interest. her history.\ * * * L t 1 h A meeting in ~iHiman Hall' qn as year a so saw t e inspiration of an all-India week Monday afternoon resulted in the come from the faculty, which also went the way of Focus. formation of a local branch of It is now time that these two efforts were combm\ ed· under the Intercollegiate Prohibition Association which is a non-par- joint faculty-student leadership, and made realities. If the ~isan organization whose purpose focus program could concern and integrate itself into the xs to study the liquor traffic. * * * same area as the general week of culture and lectures on 1 o Years Ago one country, Union would have a program worth boasting Only 15 per cent of Bennington about. It would provide an exciting new period in the pres- Cabo. lletgeW'lgl.~rls acl'ell enthusiastic . . . . . ~ • , . · o~ 1 mms o ege men; ac- ently dull calendar, spur mtellectuahsm, umte the varmus cordmg to a recent s1.1rvey con- discipJines (both in the facu1ty and students) and o-ive a 'ducted by the \Record Williams ' o~ student newspaper. As for the group of students and faculty members working together other 85 p_er cent in this dati:p.g something worth striving for. pattern. · s:urvE)y, the \:ftecord\ shrugs them off with a \Well ..• \ * * * The \Concordiensis which celebrated its 75th anniversary last February, officially l'eached that milestone with this issue. The first issue ·of the \Concor- diensis\ was printed in N.o\·ember {)f 1877. . * * * The award ·for \Most Interest- ing Headline of the Week\ goes to the \Massachusetts ·Collegian\ for ·this. one: Students Fill Up 400 Bottles as Prexy Leads Pint Parade. * * * 5 Years Ago: 1. ~'There has never, in my mem- ory, been as much damage and overt aggression to the campui:J on acy weekend as there was last weekend;'' Dean Wiifiam C. Huntley told the \Concordiensis\ this week and added, \such dam- age :is nbt in the Union ·bradition.\ 2. Faculty salaries at 'Union still remain lower than tliose .at Am- herst, Haverford, Williams and ot~'er ~omparable institutions ac- cording to statistics released by (Continued on Page 3) RIC.CITELLO'S Erie Boulevard at Jay S.treet -JJJ.al:uJJnq-- foods-Roast Beef-Steaks·Chops · .. SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS SWEATERS POLISHED COTTONS IVY .SLACKS \ ..... CAMPOS OUTER. WElR ADLER SOCKS Suggestion: Show Union Identification Card and Get Excl~sive 1 0% OFF on All, Merc:handife For three Generations ••• Those Who Know .• Have been recommending HERSHEL MAURI(:E B. WALTER Maurice B. Granhart & Sons \Jay Street Jewelers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONESi SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Fiiiday, Nove• Pre: A Earlier tl ccalendar pres The calendar wipter tei·m .b ·below are by 1 E.·M, T.racy, By i The new pt enG.ar has rna could help to tiona! system put into effect ically will rev endar :by intro ester system. wil:l consist of terms, one f ~hristmas, th February to , week semester ing thE! six w students will • year's course four during th The crux of · added six-weel provide oppor for intensive s subject area, c isting under tl ·six \ The possible semester are ] the liberal arb co:ul.d be used and seminar c a period of i ~nalysis in sp Reduced class vi.d.tl time for 1 ass.igned or vc botl:;t. In scien it <;!Otlld be US' search projec with an indiv gxoup of prof from the preE in five coursef more of an c centrate in G ma;ke possible in scheduling, necessary for 1 the entire tim4 There is no, :many difficui program, espec six-week seme the surface t juniors and chosen a majo: fit from the i tion provided study in their der the presen man and soph extreme diffict course into si: calendar chan ence science m since the regu as freshman · chemistry, etc j;red in six we Professor E Calendar com1 fact that the 1 actually serve overdue currie menting upol). work of requir liation, he note restrictions pi ~tate, \There the curricula have imposed.' of these testri <late those wt located by · t1 might actua1Iy first two yea1 less routine b~ pie of more{ de subject, in COil eral trend of i that merely sc !Uan:y topics, · mtroductory c sary, but a mot for six weeks able and ·sthn quirements art might be feas prove helpful undecided' on l' terested in a g work in a part ~esemble. , Other aspec calendar also l ually,. not too 1 ed during the Christmas. Er ester at Chri< tainly makes j holiday season would not stif then apprecia: dents would o courses. The \vould provide l'elieving the ~chool year, a as a spur to in lY lags arout: .b~he six-week p Y some stud course · the fit inay be prerc (Continuc

1962 po- the a in Ken- not ach- import- .politics. presi- a could results he year san as- a look contests year, iil- dy· Iri. li- tors ·Color- both de- ols and jected a Even Rom- Gov- voters of the po.- In fact, yoU:ng- Rom .. party to di- In a a new an age SIV£· ODS ELRY F~iday, November 16, 1962 3 Concert Review: Prexy's Calendar: _ ........ ______ _ An Evaluation: Vegh String Quartet By J. C. Cleptens By Brian Fennelly As Thanksgiving draws near, of Santa's helpers\ and not the Earlier this year, the CONCORDY printed the sugg·ested new: The Union College-Schenectady The closing Mozart G Major. we are already beginning to see Big Man himself. ccalendar presented to the college last spring by President Davidson. Musetlm Concert Series. presented Quartet K387 wa. s astonishingly the first signs of the coming In addition to pool'ly-portrayed 1 d 1 d 1 · t Christmas season. At this very Santa Clauses, another evil which The calendar has stimulated discussions on campus; the six-week the Vegh Qua·rtet for the second c ean an • P aye a most o per- h . th It' concert of the season in Memorial fection. The delicacy of phrasing moment, in employment agencies plagues t · e season IS · e mu · l- winter tei·m being of special interest and concern. The two articles. Chapel Wednesday evening. This, an.d attention to the s.lightes~ d~- all over the country, .chubby old tude of imitators who pepper the ·below are by two junio1·s, Eric Toder, who ta·kes the affirmative, and . Hungarian group was formed in tat,! were all accomphshed withm men are being cast in the role business districts of. dven d the E.· M. .Tracy, who takes the negative. , Budapest in 1940 and still con- !'- perfo,rm!'-nce that also suceeded of Santa Claus. The men who smaller towns. On an 1 m tepden. ehnt . sists of the original members who m proJectmg the Iarger aspects hire these symbols of Christmas· survey last winter, coun e e1g ·now live in Switzerland. The of the work. This same sensitivity hold the dreams of thousands of versions of Kris Kringle an State Quartet was received enthusiastic- pervaded the encore, a movement children in their hands. We would Street alone. These varied from • Pro Con By Eric Toder By E. M. Tracy, III · aHy at its first concert at Union from Mozart K575 Quartet. like to direct an editorial plea to the well. l_llade-up depart~ent ·.two years ago, and this season's ferh!'lps the only lfncomfortable personnel men to use their utmost store varrebes to the mul~1tude eng· agement waes agai'n marked pomt m the evenmg. was. t.he discretion. of seedy kettle tenders who mfest f h . the ai'ea. These latter are covered by a warm welcome from an ap- pla~ement o t e mtermisswn h I A . bl k The new preposed college cal\ Introspection and re-examina- · preda:tive audience. . \:hlCh would have been welcom~d Looking back and rating by t e popu ar meriCan an et en-.'ar has many advantages and tion of ·OUr purpose seem to be the. d tly afte the Be thoven This \famOt16 Santa Clauses that I .rationale: Charity. I am almost \' .. essence of t·he var·I·ous Ta·sk Force, Beethoven · 1 :ec . r ·~ . · · · have ·known\ Js a.· convinced that if dog chops were could help to improve the educa- . . • mtght have been w1se especially I tiona! system at Union, if it is r!'lports ma?-e pubhc from time to The well chos~n program because of the arrangement of difficult -task. found to be a high-selling item, put into effect. The program bas- ~1me at Umon. It wou}d seem log- opened with Beethoven's Op 131 the works, with the most difficult Perhaps the most some charity would peddle them ically will revise the present cal- real to a;ssun;e that hght as well Quartet, a most difficult work pieces first ... (This is a good realistic was a from door to door. endar by introducing a three-sem- as ~eat rs bemg gen~rate? by the fo·r performers and listener alike. idea; it catches the audience while fellow employed The Chamber of Commerce in ester system. The three semesters \!lrious . groups delvmg mto the The piece un;folded in a most sen- they are stiil fresh from the in my childhood large cities would be wise to wii:l consist of two fourteen-week v1tals of U:m~n College. One of I sitive manner, perhaps a bit re- evening air). . by Abraham and organize a program to -limit the terms, one from September to ;he most stgmficant _of these ~e- strained, but wholly satisfying. . It is not eneugh to say the S t r a us depart- number of department store Christmas, the other from mid- ports was from Presrd~n~ Davtd- There were no particularly dis- Vegh Quartet plays well, for they .. · ment store in l'a·ntas and investigate the possi- February to June, an<l, one six- son last Decem.ber outhnmg pro- tinctive features about their ap- are able to probe deeply into the downtown Brooklyn. I still half bilities of ousting the kettle week semester in mid-wintei' .. Dur- posed changes m. the coJlege cal- proach, but any group that can music and combine this rare sixth suspect that he was the real ar- tepders from the local streets. A ing the six weeks in the winter, endar. At that time, the plan for. make this work into a compre- sense wtih their technical mas- ticle. At the other end of the great American dream lies in students Will carry one coQrse (a two ~ourteen.week.semesters and hensible unity anq play it wtih tery. Most important, they pla·y spectrum is the degenerate who the balance. year's course) as compared to one mter:vemng SIX week ~erm such affection and poetry deserve as one. The eveness and brilliance tended his kettle on State Street --~~----- four during the regular semesters. w~s unveiled for faculty consider- high prajse. of their playing coupled with in Schenectady last winter. Ht1 E· · . . lect;OnS The crux of the program is the at10!1. The ,P110posal has ~any . their intifllate approach to the was dressed in the traditional I' added six-week session which will !llerits, yet It appears tha~ little · Bar.tok music gives them a high· rank red uniform, but he had a curious (Continued from Page 1) ••• provide ()pportunities to students has be~n d?ne to warrant Its in-·· The second work on t)le pro- among present - day chamber dowdy difference. The white trim several agents have been contact- for intensive study in a particular troductwn m the fall of 1 9 63. ·gram waes the Quartet No .. 2 of groups. on his outfit was made of cotton ed for the hiring of name talent subject area, opportunities not ex- If reports concerning the Stu- . Bartok, which was given an in- --------- and the cotton was falling off. His for the Weekend, but as of now isting under the present system. dent-Faculty Conference this fall tense and thoroughly brilliant Union Then jacket was threadbare. He looked none has been chosen. In addition, ·six Week ProJ'ect are to be taken at face value, very 'reading. Perhaps there are n~o- • • • like the least likely person to five or six volunteer committees little· concrete has emerged thus ments in the first movement (Continued from Page 2) be giving gifts to others. His will be formed to handle specia·l The possible uses of this middle far.· From reports, curriculum re- which one might dub \poor man's the National Educational Asso- beard sat plastered to his face jobs in preparing for the week- semester are I\'lany and varied. In visions essential to the success of Berg,\ but in the rest of the piece ciation. like fragments of an old fuzzy end and for other tasks during the the liberal arts field, the six weeks the plan have yet to be made in, Bartok has assimilated his inner 3. Famous Last Words (by a toilet seat cover. The most tragic year. . co:ul.d be used fer honors classes most fields. No wave of student self. The Vegh must have known Concordy columnist) aspect of the whole situation was · In closing Seifert added, \We and seminar courses. It could be enthusiasm is in evidence, and this \inner seW' through their \In view of the tepid response the look of disenchantment on will appreciate the help of all a period of intensive study and certain of the faculty who are contacts with the composer for to last week's announcement of the faces of the children who Freshmen who are willing to work apalysis in specific subject areas. known to often advocate change the performance was searching, a Roc 'n' Roll Club, I think 1 can walked by. Their parents were for their class by volunteerin,g- to Reduced class hours would pro- now are advocating a go slow , deeply moving, and at times e1ec- safely say that that art form hard pressed to e:,cplain that tl:)..e serve on one or more of the class vi.d.~ time for mor~ reading, either policy. The Student Co11nci1 recog- . trical i·n its impact. is dead . 0 n the Union Campus.\ phony before them was \only one committees. assigned or voluntary, or ·some of nized a need for ch?-figes that ______ _:_ _______ .:..__ ____ ~---=--.!:..:: __ _:__ ____ ~-------~--~--~----------;- bot!:).. In science and' engineering, would furth19r academic achievtl-. it could be used for advanced re- · ment on the campus, but wisely ,' search projects in COnjunction .reservea endorsing specifiCS Until I with an individual professor, or the proposals could ·be investigat~. jp:oup af professors. The release ed on their merits. Under such fl'om the pressure of obligations circumstances, it would seem that in fiv:e courses wiH give students . a hasty ch,ange could. do more · more of an opportunity to con- ha.rm than good to the President's ! centrate in one area, and will bold program. ma;ke possible increased flexibility in scheduling, since it may not be Six Week Conflict necessary for the student to. spend the entire time on the campus. Calendar changes are net un• · known to Union students. The There is no doubt that there are problems posed hy th~ modest i;e.- :many difficuities blocking this· visions made this year have yet program, especially as regards the to be resolved, for it s_eems that · six-week semester. It appears on in the shift to the 8:30 schedule the surface to be valuable for lunch time for those with noon juniors and seniors who have hour exams got lost in the shuffle. · chosen a major and who can bene- It might be well to resolve this fit from the intellectual stimula- conflict before plunging into wid-·· iion provided by really intensive er-ranging revisions with its rash study .in their field. However~ un- of new problems. 1 der the present curricul~m, fresh- What problems does the Presi~ man and sophomores m1ght have extreme difficulty forcing a yea;r's dent~s proposed calendar create? course into six weeks. Also, the The major conflicts revolve around calendar change may inconveni- the six week term between New · · · d · Years and mid-February. At this ence science maJo~·s an engmeers, time students take one complete sincfe the regulahr lab .courses suc.h six credit course or two three as reshman P Y s 1 c s, orgamc credit courses with classes meet- chemistry, etc. could not be cov- ing five days a week. Each daily . ¢red in six weeks. session would ·be from an hour . Professor Baker, head of the and a half to two hours, with lab Calendar committee, stresses the or librai·y work assigned as deem- fact that the new calend!.lr. !llight ed necessary. Not all would be actually serve to bring about long tied to such a rigid schedule. Hen- overdue curricula changes. Com- ·or courses and lab projects are menting upoi:I the present frame- proposed, as well as such truly ex- work of required credits for grad- citing prospects as moving to the . liation, he notes thatfi aside from political' -environs of Washington restrictions placed on us by the for a six week study uf practical state, \There are restrictions on politics artd government in action. the curricula that w.e ours.elves Those unfortunate enough to fail have imposed.\ An easing of some a course could make it up at this of these restrictions to accommo- time. At first glance, it seems <late those \\·ho are slightly dis- ·that unbounded horizons for in tel- . located by the third semester, lectual pursuit are opened. might actually serve to make the first two years of college much The Glamour Olf less routine, by introducing a sam- ple of more detailed analysis of a Upon subjecting such wonders subject, in comparison to the gen- to practical analysis, however, eral trend of introductory courses some of the glamour wears off. that merely scratch th'e su'rface of. Can one Write a 56 paper in six . !'J1an:y topics,· ·l)'JildOtibtedly, these weeks? Can one pass a course in mtroductory courses are neces- six weeks that he has failed the , sary, but a more specialized course first semester in fourteen weeks? . for six w:eeks might prove valu- Is it really all that intellec- able and ·stimulating, and if re- ually stimula,ting to .concentrate quirements are ~lightly eased this on one subject day in and· might be feasible. It also might· dllY out for s1x. weeks; especially· prove helpful to a student who is if it e11tails labs and papers?. . )mdecided' on his major, and is in- What of the eight credit cuuTSe.s terested in a go6d sample of what in math and. engineering, can they · work in a particular course might· .adapt ta this new intensified · resemble. schedule? And, finally, has the . 1 Other aspects. of the proposed necessary .ground work been done · calendar also seem desirable. Us~ in terms of curriculum changes to uaHy, not too much is accomplish- give th1s new bold .program half. ed during the £all semester after a chance of success · Christmas. Ending the first sem\ The answers to these questions · · ester at Christmas vacation cer- are in some cases a matter of tainly makes for a more pleasant. personal judgment, but others re- ho1iday season, and in addition it quire much thought and basic :Would not stiffen the pace before change in the way courses are · then appreciably, since the stu- given at Union. Somebody might · dents would only be taking four have the answers to these ques~ The second semester tions next fall, :flor if they don't a change of pace, and the Presidel).t;s Calendar pro- the monotony of the posal is accepted it will be noth\ year, and perhaps. serving ing but a :farce on a grand scale, a spur to interest, which usual- lags around mid-year. Also, six-week period might be used some students who failed a course· the first semester which inay be prerequisite to courses (Continued on Page 4) d'd:Jw.nip t1JJ.Il ti.do~ gro· wirl.g, • 1n • a .(1.ompany Twelve-month and 18-month training cou:rses now being offered • Good starting salary with increases every 6 months during training program • Career develop- ment plan • Employee benefits among best in country. a dynamic_ indus(ry SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE WHEN HE V,SITS YOUR CAMPUS ON DECEMBER 10 PUBLJC' SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY Newark, New Jersey ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST SUPPLIERS OF t:NER8Y

4 Friday, November 16, 1962 · Adv<;!rtisement Student Body to Vote on C·onstitutional Revisions Proposed A~nendrnent•. VOTING AT CONVOCATION Monday, November 19, at 11:30 An Explanatiqn Amendent #1 A) Title IV, part III, which reads: III. Membership A. All undergraduates who who. have .paid the Student Activities for that year shall be members of the corporation. Shall be changed to read: 1U. Membership A. The Membership of the Union College Student Council Inc. shall be the active elected and ex-of- ficio members of the Stu- dent Council. until new Directors are W.·~-------------- elected the· next falL . Question and Discussion Meeting Last year, the Council ap- a. Replacements of Direc- proved the proposed amendments called at any time· by the Presi- tors need not be made un- 7:30' P.M., Sunday, Nov. 18, in Hale Bouse · and they were submitted to the dent or by petition of the stu- less the number of Direc- Student Body at its meeting in dents. tors shall fall below three. April. At that meeting, a quorum.· The third amendment takes the A. The Student Council shall students to the following was not present and the vote was National Student Association rep- V. Annual Meeting · t f f t · groups .. · invalid. The amendments are be-' resentative off of the Counci:l. This A. The annual meeting of consls o our ca egories . of members. l) One Student to the Ad- ing resubmitted to the Student is done becauE;e that individual the Corporation shall be, 1. The four categories are as missions Committee , Body at the Convocation on No-, is not representing any class or held in conjunction with follows: 2) Two Students to the vember 19, at 11:30. , other constituency, and because the December meeting of· A. The elected pres'1'dents of C 11 D' · l' C the Counc1'ls· me· mber· sh1'p m· NSA the student body, 0 ege · lSCl'P me · om- The foHowing will attempt to, . ·.· · . · · · · · . ShaH no longer be valid. the four classes of under- 11\ittee. explain why the Student Council: IS uncertam from. year to year, graduates. 3) One Student to the Col- proposed and passed the four some ye~rs there IS no NSA rep- Amendment #2 B. Twenty class representa- lege Library Committee amendments. The first one, deals- resentatlVe. . . Title V. Part 1 , which reads: _t~v:~, five elected: from Shall no longer be valid with the membership of the group The last ame.ndme~t 1s desire- 1. The Student Body shal·l meet ·~~b-cof the four classes of known as the Union College Stu- able ,beca;use th1s ant1qu~ted sys- 1 1 d · h · Ul)d.~rgraduates. p· dent Council Inc. This or~an 1 ·za- tem 1s bemg replace.d by mcr~ased t reer~mu.ar y once urmg eac C. Th.e chairman of the Stu- reXy · \' St d t . t t . F lt B) Parts IV and V, which reads: d t T C 'tt • • • tion is the corporation in the: · u e~. represen a Ion on acu Y IV. Board of Directors A. The meeting during the· en.· ax · omml ee as an (Continued from Page 3) name of the students which was· Committees. . As an example, fall term shall take place ex-officio member who, if needed in the spring, to catch up incorporated as the body which there are. f?u~ student~ on the A. The Corporation shall during the week following dropped, shall he replaced quickly. would .operate the Rathskeller, ;College D1s.c1plme c~mm1tt~e, .and be governed by a Board of the first full school week, by the selected Senior The calendar chang,es proposed. so that this business enterprise, repres~ntatl?n on the. AdmiSSIOns Directors. of December. member. would no doubt radically alter the. could be chartered as a corpor-' Commltte.e HI \Qnfeaslble because 1. At the second meeting B. The meeting during the D. The chairman of the Na- educational system at Union with- .ation. 'The amendment proposes to. of. the trme and knowledge re- each fall of the Student Spring term shaH take ' · tional: Sturlent Association .jn a few yeaTs after its beginning. change the membership of that, qwred. Council, the Council shall plaGe ·during the week fol- • · \ (N.S~A.).•. as . an ex-officio Although many obstacles and in- .corporation from all the under-' ----~~-~-- elect five of its membet·s lowing the second Sund·ay , · · · m-ember ... · conveniences will be •mcountered, graduates to the elected mem- Pen·ce· who meet the legal require- in March. · 2·.;N:o student may be a mem- these do not detract from the hers of the Student Council. This · U: . • • • ments to be directors of the Shall be changed to read: . d.'lel' in .more · than one cate- overall value of the plan. The is done so that the group which Corporataion. If there shall 1 The Student Body will meet · .gory. ,. ' problems can be ironed out in is the corporation can meet (Continued from Page l) not be as many as five . each scho.ol year. . ·ShaH\ b~' lO\mended to invalidate time, and perhaps the result will (which the Co.uncil does every twc Quaker view of the pro.blem of members of the Council A. The meeting shall take part, ·.D..: be a better curriculum. Accord· weeks) and carry out the routine peace. who are eligible, the Coun- place during the thi:r;d' Amendment # 4 ing to Professor Eaker, \Our main business of the Qorporation. The Small group discus51ions will cil shall elect from the school week followhig . · . . problem here is that on four years entire Stqdent Body as a corpor- be held on Saturday from 10 A.M. Student Body as many di- · Spring Vacation. '· ·Title VI, Part IV, 1tem B. Section we have to turn out ail educated ation wa~ unwieldy and it was to 3 P.).Y.I. at the Emmanuel Rap- rectors as are required to :. . l,d., which reads: man. A calendar change might often by-passed when policy or tist Church on Nott Terrace. Mo- make the Board complete. ~mend~.aent #3 d. To appoint with the con- force us into thinking about what members of its Board of Direc- tion picttrtes will be shown, and 2. The Directors of the Cor- Title VI, Part III, which reads: sent of two thirds of the we should be doing in this four tors w~re decided. Now, the cor- lunch will be served. Dr. Whitney poration shall hold office Ill. Membership members of the Council, year period.\ poration ~;an be closely watched ·and others will lead the disc-q~ ---,.-:_-:_-:_-:_-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,-:,:_-:,-:,-::.:.:.:.-:-:,-:,:.:.-:.:.-=.-:.:.:.\:.-:.:.:.-: and effectively managed. sions. A registration fee of fifty cents will be charged for the Sat- . , •. I ' Pall Malf PresentS- GIRL WATCHERS GUIDE HIGH-FLYING GYM·DANDY Few sights In all the world of girl watching are as breathtak- ing as the unexpected observation of a Gym-Dandy in midair maneuver. Plato mighi~well have had the Gym-Dandy in mind when he wrote, \When a beautiful soul harmonizes with a beautiful form, and the two are cast in one mould, that will be the fairest of sights to him who has the eye to contemplate the vision.\ Although the Gym-Dandy is a joy to behold even while tightening the laces of her sneakers, she must be seen in action to be fully appreciated. The same thing is true of a Pall Mall. It's a long, firm cigarette in a handsome package, but it must be tasted to be fully appreciated. Try Pall Mall and see. Pall Mall's natural mildness is so good to your taste! So smooth, so satisfying, so downright smokeable! @II T. Co. Productof ~-~/!'~ \C)\.& , </~ is our middle name Amendment #2 was enacted by urday progr:;tm, and the lunch the Council because there is no will cost one dollar extra. Reser- need for two compulsory student vations m,ay be made by calling body meetings. Poor attendance Fa 4-2~~3. and a(!equate Concordy coverage T.he Peace Institute is being of Co\:lncil business makes it de- ~;~pQ:p.sored by . such. local groUps · sirable to have only one meeting as the Schenectady County Coun- per year, that being in the Spring cil of Church~s, the Schenectady and coverning the Student Coun- So~iety of Friends, th~ Schenec-. . cil elections and any business of ta~y chapter of SANE, and the the Council which must be World Federalists. All Union stu- brought to the student body at .dents are inVited and urged to large. M;eetings may, however, be attend. 8 DIAMANTE'S · · Enfoy our Fine Home Cooked Holian Food in Our . ··: ., r, . J: , J I: . Comfortable Dining Room ,. ·~tl' r. OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOIT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3. A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 ·P.M.-3 A.M. VV LANES 1723 VanVranken Ave. STUDENT RATES 35c per game up till 6 P.M. Weekdays · j lf'k .. t n#i.. .. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street 45c per game after 6 P.M. antl Weekends Experienced Barbers Bar On Premises FREE SHOES (save 25c) to College Stuc).ents 8 · a . Union Pharmacy·. 600 Union· Str~et . ' Catering to Union Co!l~ge Students NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES ' Where Union ~~~~~~~: ::j;i~s·. ·, ~\. -~· ... ·~- ·:Ideal have oathered for over so ··. Shoe··Repair years. 1565 Van Vranken Avenue FR 4-360~ I ·Sherman's Liquor Store· DISCOUNTS ON CASE LOTS -Free Deli'Dery 720 Albany St. FR2-3465 Hours: 9 A.M. to 11:00 P.M. ~riday, Nove Eco1 Lect Dr. Colsten this Sunday a P. Steinmetz sponsored by Society of Sc will be \The of Advertisi scheduled fOJ Great Hall of Church a-t 12 Warne, bor York, got his was granted ] nomics at Chicago. He Economics a1 Warne is nm Panel 0f A American Arf and is a me dent's AclvisOJ tion, he is a to the maga: tory.\ The guest · nua:l lecture I~ Taylor. Revel pastor of the forward toW pects it to be perience for b gation and community a Ste.inmetz wa, .· Unitarian Cht and the Schei Gold feels tha · hold somethin This lectuve The Young will hold a rr . evening Nove P.M. The plac• HalL Harrison S£ Times columr · Russia, will b High Scho 8:00P.M. I at the \Your J, Fror BUY co ... ~ THER B DIFFE Rh Also$2 Hedding Ri Buy Witt ,. IDlE Jt;..-, 28 State St.

1962. e Presi- stu- the rep- This class or because in NSA year; SA rep- desire- ted sys• Faculty on the and because re- 1) blem of will lOA.M. Bap- Mo- wn, and discus.. of fifty the Sat- lunch Reser- calling being groups Coun- and ·the stu- to r A.M. nue P.M. Friday, November 16, 1962 · s Econontist NucleicAcid Wyman Discusses Letter to the Editor Barton W. Kaplan African Project ~. Campus Religious Lectures .Discussed · · · · ' · To the Editor of the the possibilities for understand- John Wyman, :in one of a series Concordiensis: ing and mutual respect among · Preseident Council. · Gf lectures in the Schenectady t d · k · area, discussed \Operation Cross- As president of the ·Campus . s u ents m eepmg with the . Dr. Colsteh E. Warne is to speak \Problems in Nucleic Acid roads Afrjca,\ a project he par- Religious CGuncii, I would like moral standards of the .Judeo- this Sunday at the annual Charles Metabolism of Paramecium Aure- ticipated in for nine weeks last to express ·our support of the Ch;istian Faith. Although greater' P. Steinmetz Memol'iai Lecture, lia\ was presented last night at summer. motion passed by the I.F.C. in strtdes must be taken towards VAN CURLER MUSIC SHOP sponsored by the First Unitarian the Sigma XI l'ecture by Dr. As one of the three-hundred regards to discriminatory clauses .. this goal, it is heartening to see Society of Schenectady. His topic Henry M. Butzel, Jr; A . ll t d t . h An action such as this furthers an action such as this taken by will be \The Ethical Implications By .studies using radioactive · mertcan co · ege s u en s m t e the I.F.C. of Advertising.\ The talk is ,carbon or tritium, Butzel has program, Wyman appointed to . fiiii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-o:;;;;;;..,.~ 501 State Street ·~ scheduled for 8 o'clock in the:. been a'bl·e to sho\' tha·t P. Aurel·l·a aid in the development of Upper · s E. ~ E c A G t H n f th F' t U •t · \ · Volta, a former French col<:my · . · · . ·. rea · a o e. 1rs m ar1an is unable to synthesize one .of and new United Natioms member, Church a:t 1221 Wendell Avenue. the basic com!}onents essential Warne, born in R0mulus, New for .the formation ·of nucleic acids. F0r the first seven weeks he . FR7-21SS 1585 Van Vranken Ave. York, got his B.A. at CGrneU and .Additional work done by other in- helped plan and build a number was granted his doctorate in eco- vestigators shows that the entire of schools, and post offices and. nomics at the University of. metabolic picture for the DNA other institutions. He was helped Chicago. lie is a professor of precursor is abberant, and that in this by local authorities and· Economics at Amherst College. an. abnohr~al exbcrel~qry prlod:uct htwelpful lnativfesh .. Dutr.ing. thAef ~ast . , Laundry Warne is nGW a member of the reJects t · 1s meta o 1c pecu: artty. o wee {S o ts s ay m rtca, Panel 0f Arbitrators for the Similar inability to synthesize he was able to travel rather ex- American Arbitration Assoct1:1-tion, nucleic acid precursors has been tensively throughout a number of Dry·: «?leaning and is a member of the P.resi- ··found by others for three addi- new nations. During the talk he ' dent's AdYisory Council. In addi-. tional protGzoa. Such a similar presented a number of slides, · tion, he is a contributing editor', finding in all four of the protozoa illustrating the accomplishments Chinos to the magaz1ne, \Current His-. so far investigated might suggest of the operation. tory.\ · that this metabolic deficiency is With regard to racial tension, The guest speaker at this an- . typical of the Phylum Protozoa. Wyman believes that not enough ·. nua:l lecture last year was Telford Hutzel received his A.B. at Americans understand how Afri- Taylor. Reverend William Gold,· WiUiams in 1943 and his PhD at cans felt toward the discrimin-. Shirts pastor of the church, is looking· Indiana in 1953. . tion problem in the United States, forward to Warne's talk, and ex- • By participating in this operation, FAST & DEPENDABLE SERVICE 1 pects it to be an interesting ex- and by working with Negroes, . perience for both his own cbngre- Lahn . seme· of whom were freedom gation and the Schenectady · '.1::' .I:' • • • riders, he feels that his views community as a whole. Since (Continued from Page l) on the subject were broadened. 0 N.EW 0 . Steinmetz was a member of the Wyman, a senior at Union, and Unitarian Church, Union College,. weapons. The acquisition of nu- a member of Sigma Chi fratern- the Schenectady Community, clear armaments by smll.ll covn- ity, intends to enter Harvard Bus- Gold feels that th.e lecture. should tries fro:tn the United States or iness School upon graduation. Coin Operated Russia could be the error that in- ho-ld something of value for all. This lecture ·will mark the sec- itiates a nuclear holocaust. in a series inaugurated in Fears of China and other na- .· honor of the society's former tions entering the \nuclear club\ member. lt is open to the public were quenched by the fact that and free of ~harge. Reverend ·Gold the technical experience and finan- Patronize ces ne€ded to construqt a func-. extended a sP¢cial invit~tion tional nuclear system (i.!liminated the members 6f Union College. China and other possib1e nuclear WASHERS and DRYERS powers of the future. This does not exclude the possibility of the · development of a nuclear weapon by China in the near future. Our Advertisers - The Young Republica:q's Club wiU hold a meeting on Tu~:~sday evening November l3 at 7:30 P.M. The place will bt;J 305 Bailey Hall. ' Harrison Sailsbury, New York · Times columnist and expert on · Russia, will be speaking ·at Lin- High School on November 26, 8:00 P.M. Tickets may be ob- at the library. Tllne Ct1nter · JeweleFs \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE BIG DJf.fERENCE .., .. ~~.nN Ring .$ 225.00 Also $200 to 1800 YVedding Ring $39.75 real difference in dia• nds is ''quality, 11 Every !J'\IeeJJSclke engagement. center ond is guaranteed perfect or replacement assured). Rlt~(ft 11nb.racd •• J.bi'Jw·dri•l. Pri,tlllacludc Federal T~L Buy With Ccmfidence irntj Ct:nl~_. Jt;wt;lt; .. ~ 28 State St. FR 4-0183 Learning never stops for engineers at Western Electric There's no place at Western Electric for engi- neers who feel that college diplomas signify the end of their education. However, if a man can meet our quality standards and feels that he is really just beginning to learn ... and if he is l'eady to launch his career where learning is an important part of the job and where gradu- ate-level training on and oH the job is encour- aged - we want and need him. At Western Electric, in addition to the nor~ mal learning-while-doing, engineet~s· are en- couraged to move ahead in their fields. by sever~ al types of educational programs. Western maintains its own full-time graduate engineer- ing training program, seven formal manage- ment courses, and a tuition refund plan for out-of-hours college study. This learning atmosphere is just one reason why a career at Western Electric is so stimu- lating. Of equal importance, however, is the nature of the work we do. Our new engineers are taking part in projects that implement the whole art of modern telephony, from high- speed sound transmission and solar cells to electronic telephone offices and computer-con- trolled production techniques. Should you join us now, you will be coming to W estem Electric at one of the best times in the company's history. In the management area alone, ·several thousand supervisory jobs are expected to open up to W.E. people within the next 10 years .. And our work of building communications equipment and systems be- comes increasingly cha:llenging and important as the communications needs of our nation and the world continue to increase. Challenging opporttmltles exisi now at Western Electric for electrical, mechonical, industriai, and chemi- cal engineers, as well as physical .science, 'liberal arts, and busine~s majors. All qualified applicants will re• ceive caref11l consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin •. For more information about Western Electric, write .College Rela- tions, Western Electric Compan.y, Room 6206, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange fpr a Western Electric ihterview when our college representatives visit your campus. (!Yiit~ !J1.£1~¢tric} MANUJACTU.,NG AND SUPPLY @ UNIT OF THE DILl SYSTIM Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, Ill.; Kearny, N. J.: Baltimore, Md.; lndla~apolls, Ind.; Allentown and l,.aureldal·e, Pa., Wmston·Salem, N. C.; Buffalo; N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.;. Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City,, Okla. Englneer.lng Research Center, Princeton, ·N. J, Teletype Corporation, Skokie, Ill., and little Rock, Ark, Also Western Electric dlstrl· but ion centers hi 33 cities end installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York · 7, N. v. I I . . • D&J AUTO S~RVICE RECORDS MUSIC 1372 UNION ST. Brakes, Tune Op, Wheel Alignment and Balance 016-9644 JAZZ POPS · CLASSICS Student Discounts (Author of\ llVas a Teen-(Jge Dwarf,\ \The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis.\ etc.) EAT, SLEEP, AND MATRICULATE ~ . Tht;! tremble with early morning classes is that you're too sleepy. ·At late morning classes you're too hungry. At early afternoon classes you're too logy. At late afternoon classes you're too hungry again. The fact is-and we might as well face it-there is no good time of day to take a class. What shall we do then? Aba,ndon our colleges to the ivy? I say no! I say America did not becoine the hope of mankind and the world's largest producer of butterfats and tallow by running away from a fight! If you're always too hungry or too sleepy for class, then let's hold classes when you're not too hungry or sleepy: namely, when you're eating or sleeping. ,Glasses while eating are a simple matter. Just have a lecturer lecture while the eaters eat. But watch out for noisy food. I mean who can hear a lecturer lecture when everybody is crunch ing celery or matzo or like that? Serve quiet stuff-like anchovy paste on a doughnut, or steaming bowls of Iamb fat. And kindly observe silence while lighting your post-prandial Marlboro Cigarette. Don't be striking kitchen matches on your jeans. Illlitead carry an ember from the dormitory fireplace in your pUrse or pocket. Place the Marlboro against the' ember. Light it quietly. Smoke it quietly. Oh, I know I ask a great deal.! I know that one's natural instinct upon encountering Marlboro's fine fill. vox· and filter is to throw back one's head and bellow great, rousing cries of joy. But you must not. You must contain your ecstacy, lest you disturb the lecturing lecturer. You can, if you like, permit yourself a few small shudders of pleasure as you smoke, but take ca.te not to wear garments which will set up a clatter when you shudder-like taffeta, for example, or knee cymbals. Let us turn now. to the problem of learning while sleeping. First, can it be done? Yes, it can. Psychologists have proved that the brain is definitely able to assimilate, information during sleep. Take, for instance, a recent experiment conducted by a leading Eastern university (Stanford). A small tape recorder Wl).S placed under the pillow of the subject, a freshman named Glebe Sigafoos. \When Glebe was fa~t asleep, the recorder was turned on. Softly, all through the night, it repeated three statements in Glebe's slumbering ear: 1. Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109 and is called \The Founder of English: Eclectic Philosophy.\ 2. The banana plant is not a tree but a large perennial herb. 3. The Archduke Ferdinand was assassinated in 1914 at Sarajevo by a young nationalist named Mjilas Cvetnic, who has been called \The Triggpr of World War I.'' When Glebe awoke in the morning, the psychologists said to him, \Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109. What is he called?\ Glebe promptly replied, \Perennial Herb.\ Next they asked him, \What has Mjilas Cvetnic been called?\ Replied Glebe, 11 Perennial Serb.\ Finally they said, 11 Is the banana plant a tree?\ But Glebe, exhausted from the long ~nterrogation, had fallen back asleep, where he is to this day. ® t962 MaxSbulm~n * * * Glebe sleeps, but you, we trust, are up and about. Why noi improve each waking .hour with our fine product-Marlboro Cirarettes? You get.{$ ,iot to like-filter., ffuvor, pack or box.

6 Fraternity- F acuity Conflict· Considered can benefit a person? True,. association of students. Does any- scholarship is the one an,d only body 'really think that a boy in reason for the existence of a his late teens automatically be- liberal arts ·College, but a college comes a ddnking,. swearing, gam, can also offer other cultural and bling hoodlum the moment he social opportunities. · puts on his pledge pin. As a matter of fact, fraternities Suppose there weren't fraterni- By James Stroshl•rg <!'--'----'- do contribute to the campus intel- tic:;. Then we could be like Har- Thc 'C11iun Culh:g\' Faculty re- ·this i::; nut the ca::;e, at least lectual life. If anyone doubts this, 1 · vard and our professors from ..:eutl~· voted 59-~9 in favor of a . in the admission::; policy. if t,he I suggest he plant his bedroom I Harvard. Then there wouldn't be re;;ulutiuu to abolbh fratcrnitie:; faculty is concerned with aca- in West College for the night 1 any more snobishness becayse we al Union. The uven1hdming demics, let them pester the and try to read one page of • wouldn't ha\'e· Hasty Puddmg and l'ute was taken at the· annual ~trustees fur not admitting egg- physics before 3:00 AM. Then 1 Lampoon and the social selective\ faculty retreat, held ju~t before heads into Union, and stop both- go to almost any fraternitr house,: ness at Vnion. Or would we? the upcning of wllegc in Septem-. ering the fraternitie::; to produce . preferably the ones w1th the 1 1 am not saying that fraterni- ber. eggheads, when the potential is l~wer aver.ages, between 6 and ties are perfect. But so far they The faculty maintain that the not there in the first place. Even L AM dUI'mg t~e enforced ~tudy are the Lest solution to the social fraternities contribute nothing if it were, it is the faculty who hours and let hun see the dtfl'er- ! problems at Union. . . to the intellectual life un eampus. h ld b · 't th f ence. I \ · ·· s ou . rmg I out, not e ra- A.nd· wh,, tht's ·hol·t''er than thou I .I can find o. nly .one major fault . Would some member of the fac- · · ..1 ully kindly tell me what he ex- tenHttes. attitude ahout discrimination? With ;the fratermty system, and pccts the fratemities to con- And so what if Gn'eks don't The Interfraternity Council is I that IS that there are, alway~ a tribute? Should they by some contribute; docs the football team, .cunently engaged in a struggle .. f~w freshl!len who don t get btds. my::;teriou, for~:e make every the idol painting and headshav- to end discrimination in the one I If ~he Umon Gree~s can swa;llow pledge htto a genius upon his ing, the band, and the radio sta- remaining house where it exists! their. P~tde and acc~pt umv~r\ initiation'? The faculty nut the tiun? Why put money into Jack- on campus. Where is the faculty I s~l lnddmg, t~en soctal selectwn Greeb are respon::;iblc for intel• sons Gardens and landscaping the in this .fight? :Are they attempt- I v.tll becom~ a . remnan~ of the lectual life. campus when trees don't teach? irtg to end discrimination in the 1 past,. along . wt~h . ha~mg, hell Is the intellectual life the sole Maybe it can he seen that there a4lm)ssion policy? I week, and dl~C:lmm~tion. focal point on campus? Anyone are other valuable assets of a col- . i I; And why this question ahout I The fratermttes smcerely ap- with an open mind can see that 'lege besides scholarships, which mol'es? A fraternity _i_s_o_n_l_y_a_n L (Continued on Page 8) Mother Ferro's Restaurant I Midtown Barber Shop Specializing in Italian ,. American Food 51 5 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Diso:::ount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Fr;ee Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. .. ,; WHE~-=: lN THE Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care WORLD ... will you go after graduation? ... will you find challenging opportunity? ... will you be in 10 years? These important questions you must answer within the next y.ear. Real opportunity is a two-way street, a 50-50 proposition. Your professional ap.vancement is based on two interdepend- ent factors: First, the growth potential of the firm you join-secondly, your own competence and initiative.' · · The following figures show our ability to provide the first requirement. You must furnish the second. Xerox Corporation has doubled its sales in the past three years-from $27 million annually to $50 million, with less than 1% in military billing • tripled its profits~from $1.6 million to $5.3 million • increased employment from 1,650 to 4,300, branch offices from 17 to 35 ... And plans for the future are even more astounding (see Fortune, July, 1962). Opportunities exi~t in the following areas: Research and enginee~g • manu(acturing • control • finance • sales. Contadt~ybur plac~ment office to arrange an .interview with a Xerox representative, who will be '.on your campus .•. , NOVEMBER 28 XE·ROX CORPORATION Friday, NQvember 16, 1962 Graduating Se·niors CHICK SWAIN BILL BOWMAN ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on. Premises PICKUP .AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. ·union College Phone EX 3-5472 RAY GILMARTIN RUDY UMSCHEIB A SHIRT WITH AN OXFORD ACCENT British inspired, all-American admired .•. Arrow's \Gordon Dover Club.\ Medium-point, button-down collar is softly rolled for unstilted shaping and fit. Tailored with traditional placket front, plaited back in cool. cotton Oxford. All- American trimly tailored to look clean-cut, to feel really comfortable. \Sanforized.\.labeled keeps it that way. $5.00. .. ·Friday; :r Seve '· Nt.l Senior co-cap out two .of tl Both have re, play. Gradu' Umscheid, R~ page). The Garn Hamilton in t began in 18! schools, of wl the annual ch of a blocked was rapidly ( Thi::~ year t working to h~ ning streak tl compiled. Tb, was a 14-13 s the 1956 cam] enter tomorrc 2-1 record, • support a dis so the Maras· to thwart Co: a winning se: halt their own Garnet I In their la Dutchmen f: Susquehana ranked with schOols in th surprise of n contests. The were outstam f ensive attac1 the weathet·m pletely dissol• attack, whicl: understandabl Irt practice, 1 worked on U game and pa: have both w• ited by the s: With the inch Williams line but eleven p< including 8 .. t proved too p~ net forward ~ UI\ion runninl total of 0 y[ and only 85 y~ One .of the f• the Marasmer co-captain Pe lineup. Burgie returned to form, put in f both games, awaiting tome ially after mi game last yeac Although tl: quehrma game very pretty .pi effort, it was r performance · this season. defensive rusl numerous bac injuries to E: ens, and the \ SKI IN! Week-end p skiers to lnstr< and girls. Pric ence not ·requh , lion. Excellent Write or Call: SHAKE SKI L . Shaker Roac _ Leb. SF £ tl £ custoil and. ft

6, 1962 · · · Friday; ·:November-·16, \1962 7 Seven Close Careers ~thlete' Vote~ Harriers Lose Out .~~t .H·. lllf':lm·t•lto·n Tomorrow Next Monday In State Meet The last few stragg~i:-sD!h~ ~~~~~~~~d Union College athletic ft' . . a . · . · By Bill Cohen By .A.l Starr officials for bo?king the. high-~y!ng Susquehazma f?otbaH te~~ Titne · . ·. d.\d f · Athl t f ' · . . . . . :. should now be firmly conYlnccd tHJon went umwcc~sanly_ out of lb '\··'·\''''\'''''''.'''~''''l'' Fne can 1 ates or . e e o The Um~n crm;s-countty ,team elemrnt for reasons that appear nun-existent. Umon'::; lme turned ~he Month honors have been norp.j dosed.. out 1t~ S(:)as~m _la::;t Sat_ur- · in its ·finest performa-nce of this twuliled' sea::;on last Saturday, only mated by. team chac\esd a~d b wdl ?ay Wlth a dl:>,appomtmg showwg :·to give up close to four hundred yards ru::;hing in the mo::;t outstand- .~:x;oi£!J~.b~~e eBlo~k ~~u•• So: Itlt~~: ~~lleg~~r\h~ta6~r~:tetfi~: i~g d!splay of mas~chism since t~c. ~nighty ~i~ hund~e~ ~~de into t~e ciet , s onsor of the a\\:ard, a pol-. ished 'last in their section as most \a·lle;) of death: '\\hen a. tea~ pl.t;~o\ u~ to 1b full capaclly and s~Ill ogi!es ~or the delay in voting, of the· team ran p(mrly over the loses by 37 pomt;5, one IS qu1~kly rcnHndt;d of :some ~f the pats~es b. ut d. ue to la. st week's Concord-. di.ffi.cu.lt and mu_ ddy home cuurse.. 1 / our current !op-fl!ght heavyweight boxc rs h~,w h~nd- p1cked t.o bulld · I·ensx·s prom 1\ssue they were un- J h . 8 1 d . fi . up a reputatiOn as sturdy as Floyd Patterson s chm. · . · · · ' .. · o n epp es turne m a ne s h · h J' G tt f th m th st con men able to present the cand1dates usque anna coac zm arre , one o e s oo e h St d t B d performance as he and Doug AI- this side of Cus D'Amato brought with him the finest small college . t coacix ~arl wft~el or the soccer len were _the Tn~y g,u~ch;,neg ~ho f~otban tea!ll you maY. ev~r have_ the_ pleasure of seeing ~t ~lexander team has neminated his two sen- cLan:ze toN,r u~t· Ge. _mnMe s . e~ d Fwld. Anx1ous to please the \b1g city_ folks\ as heput 1t !n syrupy · · t · Ab T · · any ev. rm, a!Y o_rns an ·tones touched with sarcasm, Garrett fielded a team that 1s hungry ~o;d ~o~~~f ~~~~~r fo~ th!r~!~~~ JtohnC. Ha·nhn- 8 y. 11 · erK d~sapiThntnrnth for football recognition. ExceHently truined and_ coached, the Cru- . Tet·.peni··ng w_ a·s' no_ min a ted f01: · 0 .doach. I· de.dz. · · e . 1 1 1 ·os · saders were as hard-nosed as Bear Bryant's tough Southern Con- squa 0wever 1 -run we as 1 h fb l ff d 1 - · 1 · h h_ is outstandina- _plRy throughout th. '_ 1 d b' \' R\ . h ference teams. One al · ac' su ere · a · eg mJur_y ·ate II! t e gam~~J · ·I\' · · ey were e Y .uave mg w 0 I d f d b th ·t t f G t t \ · · lk \t ff\ l · h h the season whrch saw the hooters. fi · h d l\th ·. . 11 R\ ·n an was orce y e aun s o arre. o wa 1 o , w uc e finish with a a-6 r~c~>rd. At his · 0 i~ ,?ar.sit ru~vnC::S ·Ne~ro~ :~d vainly tried to. do. If this _is small college f?otbaH, tim.~::; have eit~er center halfback position, Terpen- \ivrorris in ihe IC 4 A meet on No- ~hang.ed drastically or Umon has been leadmg too cloistered a grtd- irtg played equally well on-defense vember 19 in New York City. non hfe. . . . . . . and on otf.ense, and could be count- . . . ' . . . Susqueham1a Umvers1ty does not compare wrth Umon m any ed on to go 88 minutes every ball Desplte this poor showmg, the way, shape or form. Their coach boasted there was not ·one man on game. The hardest hooter on the Garnet were a much better team his team with an IQ under 110 or college boards below 450. We con- team Terpening combined hard than last ye!lr. The team had an gratulate him, since Susquehanna can give academic scholarships play ~nd determination to lead the 0-4 rdec~rd 1 mUdl!al 0 meetst anHd . a with a clear c0nscience to excellent athletes and build up the football hooters t@ their best season in secon . m t Je mon- neon a- ar- powerhouse they seek. We have no fault to find with Mr. Garret Senior co-captains Dave Eales (left) and Pete Burgwald will elose. years, a season that should -reflect pur-trJandgut~ar Dete~ LarrydNew- or his team. They conducted themselves well both on and off the out two -of the most illustrious football careers in Garnet history. credit upon coach Carl Witzel. ton pace . · e u ? men an cap-. field, but we sincerely hope we have seen the last of them. There is Both have rewritten tl.te recol.'d books in their three sesons of varsity Helber, likewise nominated for ped a ~ood year wtth .an outstand- no point in rehashing scheduling mistakes, since the unforgetable play. Graduating with them will be seniors Bill Bowman, Rudy his play throughout the season, mg perform8:nce agamst Colgate. \incident\ is over, and we are sure even the gentleman who felt Umscheid, Ray Gilmartin, Jack Sbrega, and Chick Swain (opposite was clearly the d~fensiv~ star for ~a~ Mo~nh' dsuallyJ ~oli1wed Union needed _to play a \school from Pennsylvania\ has recognized page). the hooters. Playmg -agamst some e on, al} zF man. 0 n ann Susquehanna 1s not Swarthmore, Haverford, Allegheney. of the strongest teams in the develope4 mto. a steady perform,; Our only hope now is we find a way to back out gracefully from East, Helber consistently kept the ~h wfo ~ fomg to ~ht \ett;r: our contract and kiss Susquehanna good-bye for good. It is almost By Richard Etdoes The Garnet el~ven travels to Clinton, New York tomorr()w to fac~ hal~ away from the. Union n_ets thee la:tssix ~~~rswa~d sl~~ulds fu':: ludj.crous for a school with. the football talez;tt of Union to be facing Hamilton in the traditional finale of the grid season. The se.ries which · wh1le at the same time backmg · h th •t \th 1 d a team With a slogan readmg \Penn State m '68.\ Let's back down began in 1890, h~s seen sixty-seven meetings between the two u:p the offensive with booming ~~mer:. vi)r;~/Rf~g l~dv~h~ f~~~h f'lro_und the conference table now rather than on the football field in schools, of which Union ha~ won 28, lost 2~, and tied U. Last _year krcks. to a ?-2 record and Bill Hunt, Selmsgrove,Pa. next November. the annual classic was caPtUred by the Contmentals, 26-:,u, by vu:~ue Gridders Nominaated Dave Bruce, Bob Wanamaker, and ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;a;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-------~ of a blocked kick in the waning moments of the final stan:?:a, which Jan Werner all developed nicely was rapidly capitalized upon. Football coach Joe Maras and this year. Thil:l year the Dutchmen will ;be • his coaching staff have nominated Although hampered by \spotty\ w_:orking to halt t~e ~ve year wm- repea·tedly capitalized upon by the three men for Athlete of the showings at times, both varsity mng )>treak the Cpntm~nt~J~ls. have Crusders. Six passes were inter- Month honors: John Soper, Bren- and frosh teams showed potential compiled. The last Gamet VH;tory cepted by the victors ~nd all were don Hutchinson, and .co-captain and the v·atsity should be much was a 14-13 s~~eake;r to ~lose o~t important in scoring drives, or in Dave Eales. For their outstand- better next year. \Cross-country the 1956 campal,gn. Hamxl_ton will killing Garnet surges into Crusad- ing play throughout the season, at U:nlon is definitely on the up- enter tomorrow.~ game w1th a 3- er territory. these men have each won approv- swing,\ said Coach Ketz. Mter 2-1 record, wh1le the Dutchmen . . al by being awarded \Dutchman several winless seasons, victory support a disappointing 1-6 slate, The, Garnet. game~ lts first of the Week'; honors by their Will be welcomed by all. so the Marasmen will be fighting, score m the th1rd per1od. through coaching staff. to thwart Continental effm:ts for the ed?cated toe of Art MaTshall, Soper was nominated for his a winning season, and hoping to who krc~ed a_26-yard field goal to performance in the R.P.I. game. halt their own string of setbacks. cap a fifty-siX yard march. The Starting his first game at end, · Dutchmen stepped off l:j.noth.er fif- and his first college .;;tart on the Ga rnet Set Back Twice t d d ·· h rtl ft b t · y:..yar nve s o · Y a· er, u gridiron, Soper showed flo signs In. their last two outings, the were stalled on the Susquehanna of his being a rookie to college Dutchmen faced Williams and 29. The Crusaders then drove for football. Filling in for the injured Susquehana both of which and a score, and quickly regained the Bill Bowman, he was a stalwart ranked with the top ·ten small ball on an interception after lPck- on defense and offense, knocking schOols in the East, and to the ing off. MarshaJl. MansoliUo just down several R.PJ. passes and surprise of no one dropped both af; quickly retaliated, however, as receiving a Dave Eales aerial that · contests. Their efforts however he snared a Crusader aeriaJ and he lit~?ila11y took away from two were outstanding. The Garnet of- raced 62 yards down the sideline defenders. for a touchdown. Al- fensive attack got no q~.ercy from to the Susquehanna three before tnough out for the r~st of the sea- the weathe1·man, who almost com-· tripping up in the mud. A carry son due to a knee ailment, Soper pletely dissolved the Eales aerial by Marshall netted two. yards, and will be heavily counted upon by attack, which coach Maras \vas set up the one yard p~Ur1ge into Coach Maras next year. understandably depending upon. the end zone by Chick Swain, • Hutchinson, like Soper a sopho- Irt practice, the squad diligently The Dutchmen, who have been more, was nominated for his play worked on their outside running plagued by injuries all Sea~on in the Hobart game. Having pl~y­ game and passiP.g attack only_ to long, suffered two more casualties ed previously only as a defensive have both weapons sharply hm- . in the Crusader game that will linebacker, \Hutch\ shoyv-ed that · ited by the snow, rain, and mud. probably. force players to the- he was capaQle of gom~ .both With the inclement conditions, the bench. Bill Bowman and Joe Stev- ways filling in for the mJured Williams line, which had yielded ens, who did a great job at quart- Art Marshall and co captain Pete but eleven points iu five games, erback while Eales was ntirsing Burgwald at left halfback, De- including 8 .. ~o top-ranked Tufts, his ailing' wrist, are the unfortu~- scribed as a bright prospect for proved too p~werful for the Gar- ate victims of ankle injuries. To- the Dutchmen, Hutchinson explod- · net forward wall, and ~rushed the morrow, should see the Gatnet in ed in the Hobar.t game f()r a 24 UI\ion running attack, allowing a the typical injury ridden physi- , yard touchdown jaunt, literaUy total of 0 yards o~ the ground cal shape they have been in all .bowling over tacklers on his way. and only 85 yard$. vill the airways. year. John Soper, Steve Hopkins, Jiampered by leg injuries during One -of the few br,ght spots for (Continued o_n Page 8) (Cont_inued on Page 8) . the Marasmen was the return of co-captain Pete Burkwald to the lineup. Burgie,. who h,as gradually returned to his old top notch form, put in fine per~orman~es in both games, .and 1s amnously awaiting tom?rr,ow's dash, e~pec­ ially after m1ssmg the H3;m~lton . game last year due to neck lnJury. Although the score of th~ ~us­ quehJina game does not present a very pretty .pictillje o-1; the Garnet effort, it was nevettheelss the )Jest performance the . Une _ ha;> g1ven . this season. The1r· blockmg and defensive rush were strong, but numerous bad brea!,.s, including injuries to Eales and Joe Stev- ens, and the weather again, were SKI INSTRUCTORS Week-end positions available for skiers to Instruct high school boys anc:i girls. Prior instructions eJ<peri- ence not required. Good compensao. lion. Excellent ski facilities. Write or Call: ONDER NEW MANAGEMENT UNION INN-517 Union St. l::iown to Louis', let us go) Let the lager freely .flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmo:;phere N1CHOLAUS R'ESTAU:,RANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Winter Track Coach Bill Ketz has announced that the fi.rst practice session of the indoor track team will be held Monday, November 26th at 3:3(} p.m. in the . Field House.. AU freshman and varsity candidates should report at this time. The tentati:ve !;qbedule includes .the Unjon Invitational, the Vermont · Invitational, and · dual meets · against Rochester, Hamilton, and . RPI. SUPERIOR BARBER S1!9P 601 NOU ST. (Across from Nott Gate l Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Train Station) Save On Our Own Olde Village · ~rivate Label Spirits ---:---7------ We Deliver Free FR 4-6846 MAMA BIANCHI'S Restaurant 1135 Barrett Street Open Till 1 :00 A.M. on Weekdays and 3:00 A.M. on Friday and Saturday Nights - Free Parking - BRING YOUR DATES Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF ~BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Upper Union Street - Presents Friday Night: Direct from the Ed Sullivan Show. Bright New Comedian CHARLIE MANNA Saturday Night: The Young Sammy Davis, Jr. CHUCK fLY Sunday Night: Steve Allen's Choice OSCAR BRAND, JR. America's Roast. Prime ~ibs of Beef-full course Dinner 2.95 -also- GEORGE MONTERO JAZZ TRIO Nightly 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. at 1617 Union Street SHAKER. VILLAGE SKI.(;ROUP Shaker Road, ~ebanon, N. Y. Large partie-s aecom.odated in our RATfiSKEI.LER La,rge New Stock of Well Known Books Leb. Springs 7-1255 for the fine~t in CUcStom. clothing and fu:rriishings 14 E. 44t1 St. • N<!w Yor~ 17; N.Y. For reservations phone FR 4-8917 RECORDS OF COMEDY -JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Profelisional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at.Corner of Broadway ·Phone FR 74112: Brought: to you at reduced prices by your Union College Bookstore ~~Don't be apathetic, read\

Friday, November Integration C · cussed at Geneva because of a 1:1pcom,ing ta}ks, Moulton felt that I ln the upcoming conference, IR Meetin o lack of research. As a l'esult they if t,Ve Communists truly wanted people should not expect . many (Continued from Page 1) · e mal{e almost impossible demands disarmament it wouldn't. How- significant advances because tht are all exclusive of Negro mem- (Continued from Page 1) Gn the free world. The United ever, the crisis will probably be areas of differences between thl (Continued fl!Om Page 6) bership, Meyers predicted that if States' program for disarmament 1:1sed only for propaganda on their U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. are to< preciate the interest shown by training in the high school level ation,\ subversion and limited en- . provides :for three clearly l,iefined part at the Conference. . diverge)lt for immediate com pro- many members of the faculty in was adequate, the number of un- gagements as long as they feel stages, a balance of power at aH . mise. However, he feels that ad· student affairs. All fl·aternities employed Negroes could be forced that they can get away with them; times and mandatory compliance. U.N. Must Be Strengthened vancement might be macle in the have a faculty adviser and many down as the unions are forced to trying to manipulate the United The Communists wiH not agl.'ee to . If a disarmament agreement is fields of non-transfer of weapon~ regularly invite faculty members l 'fi d N ft States into a position of constant- the inspection on the grounds tl).at reached, the United Nations in ·nuclear free zones and agreemem to dinner. Some houses hold open accept qua 1 e egro era smen. ly being on the defensive. There- it would be a definite violation of . Moulton's opinion win have to be to establish a. communicatiom house cocktail parties for the en- She also explained the course f th · l' t G · t · ' f l d h 1 IFC Conflict ... IN Gl Pi A C P , fi ht ore, e1r po Icy a · eneva lS o their ·rights and security. If the strengthened tremendoasly. It system between the military lead- tn·e acu ty an· at t e ast of the N.A. · · · s g on a delay and to propagandize their n · d St t h ld d t '11 b t d 1 f th t t' t' 'tt f d second front: housing. Describing c..mte · a es s ou · a op Wl e necessary o eve op an e1·s o e wo na 10ns. mee mg a comm1 ee was . orme , the PI'ablems of the Negroes who position, Moulton pointed out. the Soviet proposal or vice versa, International Police Force under to investigate President David,. · were forred out of the predom- The United States' main objec- it would find itself at a serious ·its auspices which is capable of son's suggestion that each house . 1 H · ht tive at Geneva is to provide a disadvantage since this plan is maintaining the peace. However ~nvite four .professors to become inently Negro Lmco n eJg s peaceful world of free and inde- designed for the contin.uance of this does not seem likely at the .An Grganizational meeting of honora-ry members. district in order to make way for pendent states that are aHow.ed to Communism and not Capitalism. present, for the Communists are. the Northern Student Movement The s~udents in classes.~re,t}le a state housing project fm• the choose their own system of gov- Therefore, a new plan wi'll have to insisting that this force come un- wiH be held this Monday after-. o;ame ·students wha are 'i~\\\the aged, Meyers cited cases of ernment. . be d1·awn up and adGpted if dis· der the authority of the Security fraternities. When this pr¢.mi13e Negroes being refused the !'ental The Soviet Union, according to armament is to be obtained. Council where it can use its veto noon at 4 = 30 in l'Gom 305 Bailey is accepted the faculty and the ~J 101 ~P 0 arili:~~sslS~.cas\~: 0 ~~li~~d Moulton, lacks true understanding When asked whether or not the f power. The West could not ac- HaUl. AH interested students are students can work for a common the housing leg·islation the ~f the issues that are being dis-: Cuban ·crisis wo1:1ld threaten the .cept this. invited to attend. goal; and improve Union. N.A.A.C.P. wants adopted; noting that if it is passed Schenectady will have one of the mGst liberal housing laws in the countl•y:. The Northern Students' Move- ment is an organization cGncerned with the problems of minority groups in the north. In addition to hearing speakers, like Meyers, the Union College branch is plan- ning programs aimed at prob- lems here in Schenectady. Early in December it plans a meeting with local Negro teen-agers to• discuss problems common to all teen-agers and perhaps advance some solutions to the problems, particular to these youths. The group also plans to collect money to help finance programs of cit- izenship education aimed at civil rights promulgation in the south. Candidates • • • I (Continued from Page 7) the seasGn, Hutch should be at full strength for the closing game with Hamilton. Winding up the nominations were senior quarterback and co- captain Dave Eales. Again the· workhorse for the Dutchmen, Dave was nominated for his in- !;piring play in a 48-0 drubbing to Williams. Played under miser~ble i.veather conditions, Dave handled the brunt of the defensive work with 15 tackles, and also com- pleted 6 of 11 passes for 83 yards. Earlier this year Dave was awarded E.C.A.C. weekly honors. 'rhe Block \U\ Society urges all students to vote on Monday. Bal- lot boxes· will be placed in Bailey Hall, Andrew Carnegie Hall and West College, and will be open -until 4:30 p.m. Careers ••• (Continued from Page 7) Brendan Hutchinson and Joe Saw- yer are all doubtful starters for tomorrow's meeting. All have been important in Coach Mara's youth movement and have nailed down starting births. The absence will be sorely felt.< If they show the spirit and ddve they showed against Susquehanna, and combine that with a solid offensive attack, the Garnet should produce a win- ning combination. · Influenza Vaccine Clinic~Fac­ ulty, Staff, and Employees will be held in Sil-lima·n Hall, Tues- day, NovemhPr 20, 12 noon to 2 P. M. This is one of the only two remaining clinics for followup on gecond fl.u injections. Final eli nic will be held Derem her 11. IS WRITIN HOME A PROJECT? Sure is ... sometimes! Exams. Par.ties. Games. Dates. Too few hours a day to work everything rn. Busy times call for calling home. Takes only a few minutes ... yet means so much. Why don't you phone your famiiy Long Distance tonight? Rates are lowest every evening after 5 and all day Sunday. New York Telephone. ~f~-l\ Pa.rt of U1~ ndl!Q.(,'\'J'11qe ~\.~)! APII Te.l~phor,'le ~y~te-m I .America's hottest new .sports convertible! A • =-~t~~c•~~? Sweepstakes ~(colleges only Your chances of winning are 50 times better than if open to the general public .. .,· - You can win! 50 flashing new '63 Pontiac Tempest Le Mans con- vertibles are up for grabs! They're easy to win and it's lots of fun! The big sweepstakes is starting now . . . keeps going and growing through the school year. There'll be drawings for 5, 10, then 15 and finally 20 new Tempest convertibles- four exciting laps~ 50 cars in all! Enter often . . . no limit on the number of entries per person~ Enter nowl Here's all you do: 1. Pick up afreeofficialL&M GRAND Pnrx 50 entry blank. Look for them where cigarettes are sold-on and ayout campus. Fill it in. 2. Detach your serialized L&M GRAND Pnrx 50 LICENSE PLATE from your entry blank. Save it! Tear off the bottom panels from 5 packs of L&M KJNG, L&·M Box, CHESTERFIELD KING or CHESTERFiELD -REGULAR. Men- thol smokers can enter with OASIS. 5 pane~; !ifr>acceptable substitutes (see · entry blank), must accompany each entry. Each entry must be mailed separately, 3. Mail us the panels and your serialized entry blank ... it matches your license plate. Your serial number may be one of the 50 that wi!lB .a. '63 Tempest convertible! EXCLUSIVE FOR THE GIRLS I If you win, you may choose instead of the Tempest a thrilling expense- paid 2-week Holiday in Europe -for Two! Plus $500 in cash! l Winners' Tempests will include: 3-speed floor .shift, bucket seats, deluxe trim and special decor, radio and heat.er, delu)C.e wheel discs, windshield washers and white sidewall tires; with delivery, sales·tax and registration all pre-paid! And, choice of body, trim and top ~olors as W(;}ll as choice of differential gear ratios! Important: As your entries are received Lhey become eligible .for all subsequent drawings. So enter often a:nd enter early -..,.before the drawing for the first five Tempests (right after ThanlQ3giving). En- tries received by Thanksgiving WE*:lkend wHl be eligible in drawings for all 50 Tempests! Remember: The more entries you submit, the more chances you have t-o winl FILTERs liGGETT & • . • . MYERS TC>DACCO CO, Get w1th the w1nners ••• far ahead in smoking satisfaction I See the Pontiac Tempest at your nearby Pontiac Dealer I I • Vol. 92-- Wee The StudE regularmee night, passe ter to Presic questing inf lege promot ment proce< ulty. Alter: Winter We1 discussed. The letter considerable members of the overwhel those .present . dent Council l · terest in rna t college as a , arose over th< the letter, whi vote of 14-12. John Seifer Freshman Cla1 ferent dates f, He stated that March 2 had i cause of ~ co weekend at Sl fered either tli ruary 22 or l\ ., ..... nv·., dates. A possible < ary 22 lies in will have t If M: by O::O::A'<;HU will there is only a tween the tv . . t ( Pian( By Hanli Mrs. Madeli •rofessional pil featured a atMemc selections ,·ere the \Pr< The Submer~ >ebussy and 1'' by KabalE Before herr 'nited States 1ad studied p in Lm the IM~XCILChllCt!LdY w children aJ nnly give occat (Continu

• e 6) own by in many open the en- ast IFC formed David~ house ·become are the ··.f!1~'the pr¢mii!El and the common INS:ID'E GHANA Page 3 Vol. 92 - No. 1-0 Policy, Weekend Discussed Offers Piano Recital Founded at Union College ln 1877 SCHENECTADY,. N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1962 ·Mo'ltane Discusses Culture GIANT R;EVIEW P.age 3 PRICE 15 CENtS Thefts Library Tertned Serious Poncirus In First Tlfees .Blbbm Union College's two \Ponc!rus trifoliata\ trees have become heav- ily fruited for the first time this year. These two hardy orange trees, believed by some ta be the only specimens north of Washington, D. C., were planted next to the Melius Greenhouse approximately seven years ago by the Biology ·Department as part of its experi- mental program. Currently, the trees are about eight feet tall and bear fruit that is two inches in diameter. However, the fruit from these trees can never be sold be- cause it is extremely seedy and bitter. · According to Professor William WILSON Winne, the protection furnished . the trees by the greenhouse and Hugh Allen Wilson, Pro·· University in 1946, Wilson has North College from the wind and fessor of Music at Union and given over 600 organ recitals in the mildness of recent area win- Organ Master at the. Glens this eountry and abroad. A little ters have been rsponsible for the · . more than a year ago, he \branch- survival of these trees. Falls Church, was. heard· ed out\ to the h!\rpsichord a fore- Tqis type of tree is a native of Wednesday night in 'lli$· new runner to the piano. ' . Northern China where it was orig- role as a :harpsichord reeital- The harpsichord, owned by Wil- 1 inally cultivated. It passed on to ist. son, was made of Cape Cod cherry I Japan from which the United Wood and w3:s completed last year. States received it in 1S50. Today, Since his graduation f1•om \¥ale (Contmued on Page 6) (Continued on Page 6)

2 Publlshed FTidays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: Nationa-l Ad\•ert Ising Service, lnc., College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Vnlon College, Publlcation Ofrtce, Seheneetady Printing Company, 5·02 Broadway. Entered in the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second ·Class ·Mail ll!atter. Subscription 15c a l'OPY: $3 a year delivered anywhere in the Unit~d States. !H·:NIOR BOARD ALFRED RO~I~H:R '63 ......... 01 6-9959. ... . g,Jit·or-tn-Chief STEVEN FACTOR '63 .................. EX 3-9'232 ... ............... ..Business :lla·nager MICHAEL J. GORDON '63 .......... FR 2-1447 ................................... Managing Editor ElAVEl THUHSTO:<I '63 .................... 01' 6-9829 ........................................ Sports Editor DAVID BERE:'>S0:-.1 '64.. ................................................................... Feature Editor WI·LLIAM T. WINNE '34.. ......................................................................... Arlvlsov ~Iarty N~wnutn '04 . Martin Jay '·65 Kal Hchneider '63 ...... . Steve Ra:nnand '6 3 Bob Bulson '64 ..... Holwrt K·runwt· '1i:-1. Lart·y Horuwltz ·u:~. Hichard Erdoes '65 ... .. Ivens La Flore '64 ....... . ~lichael Berson '65 Hit-hH rd A· ron • G:J Stanley Brand \65 .. . Stuurt :\lorse '65 .... . Jt.:NIOR BOARH Assistant Featurf\s Editor Assistant Ff\at-ures Editor . ................................ Art Editor Lot·al Adveortis1ng Editor . SuhsC'ription Editor · .\~~tll·latt~ ~t>w~ Editor . .As!:-!ul'ia tt:> :\'t>\Vs Editur A!'lsietant Sports Editor .. ............ Circulation Manager .... Associate Editor ...... CollY Editor . ............ Exchange F.dltor . ............................................ ll!ake-L'v Editor REPORTER STAFF Andrew Acltur, Brian Barefoot, Bill Cohen, Arnold Berkowitz. J. C. Clemens, J:'n>ll Dill, Larry lllcCrttY, Lawtuu :llurrison, Rick Scharr, l~obert Sherwin, Bob Sltloot, PPtcar Hum-nan. gnsworth Tra(•Py, :\Iarlt Rtrom. <1Lt>n Holzhau~r. :\Jarlc Katmwi'tz. Hi<'hard ~ifton, Buh Klt>in, l-Iank Hu~ehml:'yt>r. INTJ<;RNATIOXAL STAI•'F HuLH•rt ~ganga, H.a.ymond Okafnr. Hnns-Joarhin Kohler. ~- Snmp)';On I.;::Ji~ha, Lt:'nnart C'hd!'ltiansson, Bf>ngt Honesson. Karsten Bentsen. Nicholas Peyrot, L(llonanlus Van tlen Horn. Rhinkhi ~it ta, Bmilios .Skepers. Fools Rush In • • • The Concordiensis deplores the recent action of the Student Council and its leadership in pushing through a motion based primarily upon rumors, conjectures, and ill- founded \facts.\ We further criticize those few faculty members who capitalizing on the ease of incitation of stu- dents produced a campus hysteria over an issue that may well prove not to be an issue at all, and goaded on Edward Skloot, President of the Student Council, to force an issue that clearly he, nor any other member of the Council really understood. We feel that time will clearly demonstrate that their action was both hasty and ill-conceived, and that the very \facts\ presented in support of the motion were themselves fallacious. Had a little more objective scrutiny been shown by the Council and those few faculty members, they might have spared themselves the embarrassment and altercation of policy they now must suffer. Talking of Michaelangelo • • • Last Wednesday evening, Hugh Allen Wilson, cur- rently a professor in the Union College Music Department, gave a harpsichord recital in Memorial Chapel. The con- sensus of those present was that the performance was an exciting one well worth attending. We of the Concordiensis wish to further applaud Prof. Wilson's decision to devote his free time to preparing this recital and the one he will perform next Wednesday. One cannot dwell long on the Union College campus without becoming aware of the frequent lamentations on the lack of cultural and intellectual opportunities at Union and in Schenectady. The Concordiensis feels that Union and Schenectady do offer sufficient opportunities for any- one willing to find them with a minimum degree of effort. The recital of Prof. Wilson is but one example. In addition, there are the events arranged by the Lectures and Con- certs Committee here on campus, the talks delivered by respected speakers at the Freedom Forum, the Faculty Colloquiums, are exhibits both on campus and at the Sche- nectady Museum, plays by the Mountebanks and the Sche- nectady Players, etc. Perhaps those who see this area as a vast intellectual wasteland in truth do not have the aesthetic and intellectual interests hey vociferously assert. A Forgt?tten Lunch Although the loss ·of a lunch hour by those taking noon hour examinations-was decried by the Concordiensis earlier this year, no action has been taken to alleviate the situation, half a semester already being gone. We there- fore again suggest that either of the two following solu- tions be inaugurated immediately, until a more acceptable system is found. Either classes begin at their former time, 8:00 instead of 8:30 in the morning, which to our reasoning was a sense- less change in the first place, or the afternoon schedule be altered, with .classes beginning at 2:00 and the afternoon ending at 5:00. We fail to .see how these conditions can impose hardships on anyone comparable to the present one where a good number of students must go without lunch Letter to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: Take a look at the history of Union College in your catalogue, since you probably never .have. It's full of past greatness and g-lamour that seems to envelope the campus today. This grey- walled, sometime ivy-cQvered school hallows many traditions that are trite and true. It also has others that are disillusioning. The major one is what I call the \Union Myth.\ Way back when, in its aura of greatness, the col- lege was considered one of the big feur along witP: Harvard, Yale and Princeton. Between then and now something happened. There's no need to g-o into the subject of why. It is important to remember that Union wanted to remain a \sinal!\ .college. So here we stand today,. just awakening to .the fact that we were asleep. Yet all through this sleep we were dreaming of Har- vard and here ries the root of the Union Myth. During Freshman orientation I was surprised to hear Mr. Pearson speak about the geographical dis- tribution of the Class of '65. His big point, besides the fact that 13 boys came from Niskayuna High School, was that we out did Har• vard. It seems that Harvard had taken in boys from 49 of the 50 States, leaving out Idaho. So Un- ion's one-ups-manship got a boy from this state. It's surprising how much this impressed me. Imagine a school the size and type as Union that actually could compare itself to Harvard and come out ahead. Unfortunately this feeling of security and satis- faction did not last long. You find after a while that you can't com- pare the two as much as you would like to. To say it bluntly there is no real basis for compari- son. The schools are completely different. To the Editor of Concordiensis: It is evident from the mildly hysterical tone of Mr. Strosberg's article in the November 16 issue that he is not seriously looking for answers to the my:l,\iads of questions he poses. I shaH oblige him by not giving him any at this time. However, in the interests of ac- curacy I should like to point out that at the 1962 Faculty Retreat the Faculty did not vote on the question of whether fraternities should be abolished. A question on which there was an informal show of hands was, as nearly as I ·Can recall, \Would Union be a better college with<:llit fraterni- ties?\ The difference in wording is not altogether negligible; I know of at least one faculty mem- ber who voted in the affirmative at the Retreat but would have op- posed a question about abolishing what we now have unless it was clear how they were to be abolish- ed and what would take .their place. As the Concordiensis re- ported in its earlier story on this matter, the \vote\ was entirely informal ami unofficial-it carried no legislative force and was cer- tainly not a \resolution\ adopted by the Faculty. In fact some of us argued at the time that an in- quiry into opinion that. carried as little weight as this orie should better not be made at all. It seems to be very fashionable lately to drag Harvard into de- bates about Union's fraternities. The reasons for this are not at all clear to me but, again in the in- terests of .accuracy, I suggest that it would be a refreshing change if the people doing the dragging found out what they were talkil,1g about first. For example, the Lampoon is a humor magazine, though not everyone at Harvard is in agreement as to the adjective. I shall resist the temptation to comment further on the resem- Who's Crimson Now blances between the Lampoon and Union, however, seems to glory Union fraternities. Ha.sty :Pudding in the fact that it once was com- is hardly any more like a fratern- parable to Harvard and thus tries ity - its major claim to fame to draw similarities. We take comes from its annual musical pride in the fact that Union raced stage shows. Perhaps Mr. Stros- Harvard for its colors (and won berg means to refer to the Final Garnet) and that today many of Clubs. To the people who belong the college professors are Har- to them these are indeed snobbish, vard graduates. We tend to use but about 80% of the Harvard this Union Myth of past glory to student body couldn't care less if help hide our present day incapa- they continued to exist or not. Ih- bilities. The Myth only helps re- cidentally, nobody lives at any of assure us o_f our past greatness. ; these places.. Maybe Mr. Stros- It does nothmg to expand our hor-' ·b'ei•g' a-hd Dean Pollack could or- izons. How long this Myth con- ganize · a fact-findi-ng expedition tinues is not so important, indeed to Cambridge during Reading it is part of our tradition, I sup- Week. pose. What must be stopped is Richard A. Hoffman, Department of Physics the added complacency that this \once being great\ involves. When trying to make any com- To the Editor of Concordiensis:. parison we must remember that We, the undersigned faculty we are a small school and there- members and wives, take this fore and not capable of being means to express our gratitude to \Harvard-like.\ Instead of this the Mountebanks and their direc- we must try to expand all the tors for what we regard as the advantages that a small school finest performance of a decade in can offer. Now is not the time to their recent performance of de look up large universities like Ghelderode's \Pantagleize.\ The Harvard and Yale, for compari- play itself; the direction, the sen- sons. Instead we must look to sitive acting of Robert Skloot and small colleg-es like Williams and his competent supporting cast in Wesleyan that have used initiative this American premiere combined and have become innovators and to give us a truly memorable eve- have expanded the horizons of the ning in the theatre. This perform- small men's liberal arts school. · ance was a most fitting farewell We must look to them first, then to Hanna Hall and served to in- go on our own way. It is not only crease our regret at its imminent the idea of catching up with the destruction. Our .deepest thanks. times but also putting this idea Mr. and. Mrs. Lawrence Abbott in the proper perspective. Mr. and Mr!l. John Bradbury Mrs. Philip Stanley Stuart Morse. '65 Mr. and Mrs. William Stone Fraternity Ban Opposed Foi'ces in opposition to the con- troversial Angevine Report at Wil- liams College have organized for united effort to combat the recom- mendations of the study. Newspaper On campus, The Undergraduate Committee for the Best Interests of Williams College, has ,publish- ed a newspaper, Williams Affairs, self-defined as \a student forum of news and opinions relating to the Williams College social sys- tem.\ The first issue, dated November 9, printed articles emphasizing un- dergraduate support favoring the continuation of the fraternity sys- tem. The lead article noted the student disapproval (81%) of the report. An editorial replied to the re- jection of this petition by the col- lege board of trustees, maintain- ing tbat \we must, in order to re- tain a cleat conscience, continue to represent the overwheming ma- jority of students which respect- fully opposes the implementation of ;the (Angevine) Report. We are :firf11. in our conviction that oppo- sition is for the collegels best in- terests.\ The Williams Alumni Action Committee has likewise joined battle. In a letter circulated to college alumni, the committee at- tacked the haste with which the trustees had endorsed the report favoring its implementation be- fore the alumni had been given a fair amount of time in which to \Alumni are urged to contribute their cash to the college, but at least in this instance, not their opinions, even though this involves one of the most radical changes ever proposed in the social Hfe of Williams College in its history.\ The letter further cha~:ged that opposition to the report had been stifled \in high places,\ citing editorial and spatial prejudices in the Record, the student newspap- er, and the Williams Review~ Fin- ally, the letter denounced the \to- talitarianism, dictatorship, and paternalism\ implicit in the ac- tions of the trustees and the rec- ommendations in the report. Alternatives Alumni representatives of Psi Upsilon and Theta Delta Chi fra~ ternities published an October 30 pamphlet suggesting alternative recommendations to those of the report. The authors of this pub- lication proposed two basic sug- gestions: (1) that houses which are \ir- relevant and mea.ningle:;;s\ . and wish to leave the Williams scene be allowed to do so, and C2) that the past and present performances of fraternity graduates illustrates \that fraternities along the lines as presently constituted ilre stiU \relevant and meanipg;ful.\ The pamphlet fu:dher suggests that the college and responsible fraterpity men coo;perate in at- tempting new e<lucational tech- niques and social arrangements throughout the day. , . make .their o p i n i o n s known: (Continued on Page 4) Friday, November 30, 1962 Friday, Nov:J The A Intellectual- Union Misfit By Martin Jay A Giant A One of the more insistent of the in the world ·Of the creative arts. Each Sund myriad criticisms which are aimed Although not all .intellectuals are hour exams, at Union is the lack of intellec- endowed with the creatice nn.n ........ standing, Ur tualism ,_prevalent on campus. of the fortunate few among . troep into th Since the term \intellectual\ is the true intellectual possesses their fraterl bantered about with great fre- what may be caUed \aesthetic em- National Fe quency and .often in great heat, pathy.\ The arts a1•e not seen by team which an evaluation of what intellectual- him as an incomprehensible, some- ism eNtails might be .useful. This what superfluous area . 0 f human Schenectady expression, fike most other ab- ·endeavor better restricted to the Giants. The stract terms, has many facets and museum or to the humanities text- can .be divic is open to many interpretations. book, but as an opportunity to those that l Perahps the simplest approach perience instances of insight and the hard COl to the problem is to look at the beauty in what is basically a pro- popular conception of the intellec- saic and ugly world. tuaj. Seen as bookish, impractical, Another characteristic of the snobbishly highbrow in his tastes, aware individual is a soCial con- oftenphysically inept and socially science. Dismayed by the failings maladJusted, the stereotyped in- Of the creature Swift sneered at as tellectual is a sorry .figure indeed. being merely \ca.pable 0f reason,\ It has, of course, been conclusive- the intellectual seeks to discover ly proved that this description is new ;:lnd superior avenues of poli- grossly in error, yet I think it tical:, econemic, and social endeav- provides a starting point for un- or. The impracticality of the ster- covering a better cha·racterization. eotyped intellectual can, I Certainly books are a vital part be attributed to the sad fact of the aware individual's life· he is often ahead of h1s times they're viewed not with the vague: his perceptions and solutions. reflexive uneasiness of the aver- Perhaps the most important cri- ' age student, but more with a sense terion for distinguishing the en- of anticipation and relish. It is, of lightened from the unenlightened . course, primarily threugh books is. the s-imple fact that the former that t!'te awakened mind receiYes questions while the latter accepts. the st1mu_lus and the ha~kg;round, The former, if I may become pre- e s s en t 1 a l to any s1gmficant: sumptuously philosophic, searches thought. . · for existence~s meaning, the lat- A~ for the ~1g:hbrow snobbery ter merely_ wonders a•bout it and ?f h1s tastes, 1t IS true that the then inevitably returns to the mtel~ectual oft~n is intolerant of · meaningless pettiness of his rou- the hkes and dislikes of the broad tine activity. · · base .of humanity, This intoler- Returning to the local issue at ance ~s, however, not. due ;to me1·e Union, it is obvious that the stu- sno~b!shness,, ~ut prm~ari~Y .to a dent body is by and large an cultivated ab1hty to d1scnmmate cepting one. Rarely is the class- between the valid and the invalid (Continued on Page 4) j Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian a American food D1srount for 'Union Students ~Oc on the dollar PIZZA free Parking 01 6-9554 1115 Barrett. St. Del Shofner. goed as a,n~ Beyond these formers, the ed a potp01 may·· not b; their own riJ gether like This cor.inati have camp~ rough theN to a large e cesses. They their quota capitalize or play in the ference. Bi The Ghm battle each : Chris Schen1 cer and prot biased in t] iness. What have accom izing t[n;oug ed eyebroVI plishes throt voice. Comil the. middle ; can easily te ly by listen patters inc Giants are:: into a fune the New Ym When the G ahead, Sche: believe that ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~. and punt is ii dard for the opposition i1 cult to tell alive. His cl a terse dec] situation, th Stadium cro· are injured valiant go ( not you can week's gam fortunes mi~ RICCITELLO'S Erie Boulevard at Jay Street -}~­ Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks-Chops SERVING S·CHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS 117 Mohawk- Ave. SCOTIA, N.Y. ¥ -t( 1<: SHOW TIME 7:00 - 9:00 SKI INSTRUCTORS Wee~·end positions available for skiers to instruct high school boys and girls. Prior instructions experi- ence not required. Good ·compensa- tion. Exc~llenl ski facilities. Write or Call: SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP Shaker Road, Uebanon, N. Y. Leb. Springs 7 ·1255 Down to Louis', let us go, Let thf:J lc;J.ger frceel;y flow. 1 ' I KAMAL\ Polish Drama Warsaw in Spring .. ·>,-, ,/,. ''J' ______ ;·~ SUPERIOR BARBER SHOP • 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott G~te I. :· t Specializing- in Flat Top & Ivy ..• :: League ·Haircuts A unique place to dine with, old European Atmosph~re ' NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accomodafed in our RATHSKELLER for reservations phone FR 4-8917 Schenkel's . similar to fanatics. Th voucly with same gods. l i>Your Fr BU' c cusb and a i 14 E. 44th f J Bar 50~ Expel Catering

30, 1962 Friday, Nov:ember.30, 1962 l- A Giant ·fan: A Special Anato·nty Dispelled Misconceptions-· Ghana from the Inside Among the several Union Stu- is a lack o.f the Ghana Govern- a·rts. dents spending their Junior year ment's being secretive about her Each Sunday afternoon, papers middle linebacker is their chief abroad last year was Roland mistakes. In major public reports, are hour exams, and quizzes notwith- deity and has been for some years Pugsley, who speut his time at as well as in less well-known capac standing, Union College students although his .status is endangered the University of Ghana. In the inter-departmental Government them, troop into the television rooms of by the newcomer, Del Shofner, following a1·ticle, Mr. Pugsley at- reports, which are a'lso available possesses their fraternities to Watch the who is gaining Schenkel's favor temps to correct some of the mis- to the public for the asking, the esthetic em- National Football LE!ague. The more and more with successive conceptions now prevalent in the Government discusses her policy· not seen by team which is covered in the Sundays. Despite Huff's· auto- United States a·bout Ghana. A errors at length and in quanita-. Schenectady area is the New York biography about his \Violent colorful character, Roland is wil- tive detail for instance, the Econ- to the Giants. The fraternity house fans World\ a few years ago, the ling to answer questions students mic Survey if 1961, recently pub-; anities text- can .be divided into two g:roups, sig.ht .of Sam being pasted around· may have concerning this article lished, contains page after page to ex- those that hate the Giants and by Green Bay's wrecking crew or his experiences last year. : where the Government's economic· insight and the hard core of Giant fanatics. last year has cooled Schenkel's · mistakes (and successes) are a prQ- The New York ·opinion somewhat. It would be speHed out in detail. After eight Giants are a cur- ·interesting ti;J comtrast the tapes By Akoanye-no Roland .Pugsley months of wading through hund-. stic of the ious professional of Schenkel's Green Bay cham- My experiences during a junior • reds of Government reports and· social con- football team. ionship game coverage with those year in Ghana compel me to re- · for interviewing people in every. the failings Their quaterback of the Cardinal game two or three port some of my findings to the Ministery in Accra, I can testify at as Y. A. Title, is ·weeks ago. At the Green Bay college community. The basic that Ghana is not receptive to the of prooably the best debacle, Chris was hard put to message of this report is that the secretiveness characteristic of a to in the league.· transform the mess into how val- American press gives to its public Communist society. of poli- Thei·r big end, iantly God Old Sam picked him- a grossly inaccurate and incom~. Finally, Ghana's economy is endeav- · Dei Shofner, is also probably as self l:lp from the turf after each plete picture of what is happen- too much tied with the West for of the ster- good as anyone at his .position. Packer onslaught. In the Card ing in Ghana. her to do anything rash to jeopar- I cJw:u\.•• Beyond these two tremendous per- game, he reached new heights of The following false impressions dize her trade with the West. The · fact formers, the Giants have gather- ecstacy, culminating in the shrill about Ghana. were very much in money which Ghana uses to fin- times ed a potpourri of players who .pronouncement that one of the reading public upon my return to. ance her imports of capital and may·· not he stellar players in . Card players had been \really America: consumer goods is derived from cri- their own right, but who play to- faked out of his aock on that the export of such commodities as ing the en- g·ether like a single organism. play.\ Nedless .to say, the Giants 1. That \Ghana is going Com- cocoa, timber, gold, and man- This cor.ination between men who won that one. munist.\ The truth is that Ghana • ganese. In 1961 a total of 89.4% the former have campaigned together th- A Shaw? is a neutralist country in inter- of Ghana's exports went to the 3 Pictured above is one of the works now on display at the Art Exhibit in Old Chapel. The title of the exhibit is \Junk Art.\ Patro;nize Our Advertisers t · t h th N F L t national polics: she takes sides· (C t' d p 4 ) er accep s. roug e : . . . wars accoun s Shenkel treats each game with on mue · on . age become Pr ·e t 1 t t f G' t with neither giant power block, -~_;_ _____ ~.:::_~ __ _:_ __________________________ _ · - o a arge ex en or 1an sue- the dramatic mastery of a better searches Th ' t t she is against nuclear testing by ' · cesses. ey a.so manage o ge . than avera.ge p· JayWtight. He pre- 'th E W d h · the lat th · t f 1 k b 1 d e1 er ast or . ·est, an · s e will , · - e1r quo a o uc Y rea •s an \ares his audience. Should the it and 't 1· th F' 11 th 1.' accept ee(}nomic and technical cap1 a 1ze on em. ma 'y, ey game begin to get close, his tone to the 1 · th k E te c assistance from any country· p ay m · e wea er as rn on- starts to drop into a gutteral sol- h' h t · · 1 of his rou- f w IC · cares o giVe 1t, so ong as erence. iloquy of impending doom. This there are no political strings at- issue at the stu- an ac- the class- 4) rant St. , f -~\' ->,~, ./.• ·--;'· --:.. .... _,... T. m Ivy _, ere Biased Priest t ·th f th t 'bl se s up e1 er o . e wo poss1 e tached. If 50,000 tons of cocoa The Giant fans are led into results. Should the Giants pull are left over from a season's crop battle each Sunday by High Priest ahead again, he pulls out the after the Western co1:1ntries have Chris Schenkel, the Giant announ- .Festasy Stop; should the game go purchased all that they desire, cer and probably one of the most the other way, all have been pre- neither the Ghana ·Government biased in the broadcasting bus- . pared. To give the reader the fla- · nor the public at large can see iness. What David Brinkley may vor of his histrionics, I have ere- any valid reason why Ghana have accomplished in editorial- ated a hypothetical \impending should not exchange this left- izing through the use of the rais- Giant disaster\ situation. over cocoa with Eastern coun- · ed eyebrow, Schenkel accom- It is late in the game (it always tries for badly-needed industrial plishes through his blatant tone of is) and the Giants are clinging to and agricultural machinery. voice. Coming into .the room at a slim six-point lead. And here's Futhermore,. Ghanians do not see the. middle of the broadcast, one Chris Schenkel: why Western countries should get can easily tell who is ahead mere- \The Giants have the ball first so excited about such .tranactions. ly by: listening to Schenkel who and ten on their own thirty yard Nor can Ghanaians see why peo- · patters incessantly when the line. There's four minutes left in pie in the West should get so ex- Giants are ahead but drops dow.n the ball game ..• Here they come cited when a score or two of East- into a funereal monotone out of the huddle ... Tittle takes ern technical assistants arrive in the New York cause is in the ball ... look at that faking!! the country; there are several When the Giants are he's back to pass and has good thousand Western advisors and ahead, Schenkel would have you protection .•. he's being rushed... tec):mical assistants in G}1~na 1 op- believe that every block, tackle, ·but he gets it off ••• it's complete f)J,\atin.g at .. !l'll levl'll&• .o~,.(1ov.e;rn.­ and punt is a new quality stan- to Gifford on the 1;hirty-five ment and in the :schools. There is dard for the league. But when the where he's tackled by Vince Cos- no evidence of any sort that· opposition is winning, it is diffi- tello ... let's se where the refer- Ghana and other African count- cult to tell th,at Schenkel is still ree spots the ball , . . it's on the ries are not sincere)n tb.eiJ: state- alive. His chatter limits itself to thirty-five, second and five to go ments. that as part of their policy a terse declaration of the down for the first down .. It looks like of positive neutralism, they will. situation, the size of the Yankee Joe Morrison is getting off the not allow military bases of either. Stadium crowd, how many Giants bench • . . he's talking to Coach power block to be established on are injured and yet making a Allie Sherman • . . it looks like their soil. · valiant go of it, and whether or Morrison is getting into· the ball. A further indication that not you can get tickets for next (Continued on ~ge 4) Ghana is not \going Communist\ week's game when New York· · fortunes might be better. Schenkel's attitude is quite similar to that of the Giants fanatics. They brood, cheer ner- voucly with him, and worship the same gods. Sam Huff, the Giants' Tinn; Ct;nlt;F Jt;we;lt;I\S \Your J~W!;!Ier Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE 428 State St. FR 4-0183 for the finest in custom clothing and furnishings 14. E. 44tl. St, • Ne,.. York 17, N.Y. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Catering to Union College Students INTERLOCKING RING .SETS STAY TOGETHER ••• beautifully Always in place,, •• thanks to a clever hidden lock! The famous, Keepsake Cer\ tificate- signed by this store and Keepsake- guarantees a perfect dia- mond (or replacement as• sured). IUn&• enlarc:d 1o t!iow del an, P<i•colndudc Fcdctol Tax. ALWAYS .. LIKE THIS • NEVER LIKE THIS Time Center Jewelers \Your Jeweler Away from Home\ ,>' 428 State St. FR 4-0183 ENGINEERS! Which career pathway will you take? _·,,;...!..ill '\' .. G z 0::: w w z - (.!l ADMINISTRATION . (f) )> r rn (f) I s: )> :::0 ;s::: IT1 z-~ -l u...l· z G) AT N.EW YORK TELEPHONE YOU CAN START IN ON:E FIELD ... LATER SWITCH TO ANOTHER ..• ·wiTHOUT WASTING ANY PRECIOUS EXP·ERIENCE! At New York Telephone we take a strong interest in building your career. We begin by relating your interest, experience and education to three broad fields of opyration- Administration, Engineering, and Sales-Marketing. We help you find out where you show your greatest promise. Perhaps it won't be in the field where you started. No matter. At New York Telephone the comprehensive training you receive will help you to grow into any number of key positions. Look at these exciting opportunities for young men: Administration- Due to continued growth in the next ten years, qualified men must be found to fill more middle- and top-management positions than exist in the company today; Engineering- Here, too, it's a young man's world at New York Telephone! We need competent, creative young engineers to help us move ahead fast in systems engineering, construction, planning, transmission, special-facilities design. Sales-Marketing- An exciting new side to the communications industry. New Johs are opening up for industrial specialists, sales managers, account managers- as well as in market analysis and product devel0pment. No matter which career path you choose at New York Telephone, you get these advantages: good pay, a chance for rapid advancement. For full information about New York Telephone- and your future here- write to Ed Dooley, College Employment Coordinator, Room 1770, 140 West Street, New York 7, N.Y. Or inquire at your College Placement Office. ~New York Telephone ~ Part of the nationwide Bell Telephone System

4 Frida.y, November 30, 1962 •fridoy, No· Ghana • • • Primary and junior high school constantly falling world prices Ban education in many areas of Ghana of the raw materiiilswhich Ghana · · . • • • Final Football Statistics is free and compulsory. exports, have been' and are being.· (C t' d f p 2) · on mue rom · age . {Continued from Page 3) b. Health and other kinds of tackled ~Y, Ghthe . Governmbent.' w'J'.·thou·t d. estroyi'ng the entl're Here is the statistical rundown Caught · Everyone 1n ana griped a out h u · 0 11 f tb 1·1 U h 'd 14· United States, Britan, and the social services have been greatly the high import .taxes and high t t on t. e mon o · ege oo a ms e1 , e ....... . Common Marl ,et Only 3 2m. of d d There re now s1\xty · presen sys em. . team for the season: Sawyer, hb ----·--- 6 · ' • • 70 expan e · ' a . purchase taxes imposed by the House Action 1 hb 11 Yd. Gain 122 113 112 Ghana's exports went to Russia, hospitals in Ghana, and the b h Marshal',· · ...... Eastern Europe, and the People's Americans are setting up a med- Government a year ago, ut t · e In other house action, the Board · Record: Won 1, Lost 7. Soper, e.............. 8 Republic of China combined. It· ical 15 chool to be attached to the first seven months of this year, of Governors of Chi Psi pledged St. Lawrence 34-Union 0 Sbrega, hb ........ 6 . d btf I th t Gh h' h . U . •t f Gh Gh h there has been a trade surplus its cooperation \in the implemen- Al•fl·ed 26-Union 11 WiHcox, e .......... 4 15 ou u a ana, w lC IS · mverst Y 0 ana. · ana as rather than a deficit, and in the tation of the Trustees' decision for ' B ld hb 5 78 52 48 45 40 39 30 28 20 13 making great progress in econo- · a s~·stem of two-lane asphalt: past year Ghana's reserves of the best interests of Williams Col- Rochester 40-Union 6 : S~~lf~~ fb ...... :::: 4 mic development, would do any- roads connecting the major towns money 1 ·n the U·ni'ted 1·r 1 ·ngdom 1 , Ob b 1' th t th' R p 1 6 U 111 'on· 44 ·s 5 h · h · · \- ege; servers e 1eve · a 1s · . . . - owman, e ...... .. t thmgtras to cut Its own economic and ci 1 ties adnd a systt~m of decenft have increased by $28,000;000. indicates a willingness of Chi Psi. Hobart 14-Union 6 Riva, e ................ 3 roa · grave roa !3 connec mgd mfl 11 l1 · Y 0 ·Thus, two situations about which. to sign over its property if other WH!iams 48-Union o :Hutchinson, hb.. 1 2. That \Kwame Nkrumah is ttllie !5maller towns an VI· ages. many people were worried and fraternities adopt similar action. • s·usqueha.nna 46 ~UtJ.ion 9 · Panoff, hb-s ...... 3 an incompetent, egotistical nut J.em. about which many people critic-. Phi Gamma Delta in a recent' · McCarthy, hb .... 1 who is ruining Ghana socially, c. Tema Harbor, the Volta i.zed Ghana are ·being ameliorated. meeting of house trustees, agreed' HamUton 22-Vnion 0 1 Gilmartin, hh .... 2 economically, and politically.\ 1 River Project (which wiH supply e. Substantial steps toward \to support all movements oppos• : R h' ! niH, hb .............. 2 The truth is that in the eleven I electricity, irrigation, and fish,' industrialization have been made. ing implementation of the (Ange- us mg: Car- Net Cv. Cv. 4 -3 years that Kwame Nkrumah and a valuable sourse o.f protein), and· The Western press takes deiight vine) proposals.\ r 1 ie, 5 s Yds. Ave.. Td 2 R. 0 -P K.O FG 0 Pt 1 2 • his Convention People's Party other major projPcts are laying, t'n poi'ntJ'.ng ou·t tile fi'nailct'al Deke and Phi Delt have not . .pre- H .. apki'ns,. h·h-fb 1 2 1 8 1 Hutchinson, fb have been in power, .the folliwing 1 the foundations for industriaJ.iz-: troubles of the State_ owned. pared and published any de.fini,te. Marshall, hh 39 184 4 : 7 ·Marshall, hb 0 0 4 2 10 things have happened: at ion, without which econemic. Ghana Airways, but somehow or opinions of the report. A memo H'ut.chinson, fb 30 139 4.6 Stevens, q)J 1 1 0 0·. 0 o•. o 0 .· 6 6 Wh Gh · d I ch·1nge Ghana can not ho 10 e to '\1.'11 ·be ct'rcu•lated I··n the near fu- s hb a. · en ana1ans assume , c · · · • \' othet· the Western press has ne- \ Burgwald, hb 35 115 3.3 · awyer, · 1 0 0 0 6 internal control of Ghana in 1951, I increase her standat·d of living . glected t0 mention the financial ture by Deke, while Phi Delt has Swain, fb 44 144 3;3 Burgwald, hb 1 0 0· 0 6. twenty percent of primary-school/ Ly very much. success of the State-owned Ghana adopted a \wait and see\ attitude. Stevens, qb 16 47 2.9 Hopkins, hbb 1 0 o·.. .Q ·6 aged children were in school. At d. Ghana's major economic Railways or the State-owned Gilmartin, hb 6 17 2.8 .Sbrega, h 1 ·O 0 0 6 . present, sixty percent of that age troubles, which stem not from· Black Star (shipping) Line. l•nte·· lie· Ct-u· a·t 1 •.S- ffi. . . Dill, qb-hb 9 11 1.2. Eales, qb O group are now attending school. I Kwame Nkrumah but from the· In addition to .the facts of econ- Shaw, hb 1 1 1.0 Sopet~, e 1 0 · · 0 4 6 (Author of \I Was a Teen-age Dwarf\ \The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis\ etc.) HAPPY TALK AP. we all know, romwRation is terribly important on a date. Wh£>n lullR in the conYerRation run longer than an hour or two, one's partner is inclined to grow logy-even ,-ullen. But oc- eaF-ionally one finds it difficult to keep the talk going, especially when one is having a first date with one. Wlmt, then, dues one do? If one i:-; wise, one folloW;; the Lrilliaut example of IIurlow Thurlow. Harlow Thurlow prepares. That is his Rimple secret. When Harlow i>: going to take out u new girl, he makes sure in advance that the converRation will not laHguiRh. Before the date, he goes to the library and reads all 24 volumes of the encyclopedia and tranRcribeR their contents on his cuffs. Tlms he makeR sure that no matter what his date's interests are, he will have u.mple material to keep the conversation alive. Take, for example, Harlow's first date with Priscilla de Gasser, a fine, strapping, blue-eyed broth of a girl, lavishly constructed and rosy as the dawn. Harlow was, as alwayR, prepared when he called for Priscilla, and, as always, he did not Rtart to converse immediately. First he took her to dinner because, as everyone knows, it is useless to try to make conversation with an unfed coed. Her attention Rpan is negligible. Al!3o, her stomach rumbles HO loud it is diffi- cult to make yourself heard. .,· .•. ·~ l~ .· ,.,,{ ' ,. Ro he took her to a fine steak house where he Htoked her v.ith gobbets of Black Ani!:UR and mounds of French fries and thick- ets of escarole and battalions of petit fours. Then, at !aRt, dinner was over and the wniter brought two finger bowls. \I hope you enjoyed your dinner, my dear,\ said Harlow, dipping into his finger howl. \Oh it was grandy-dandy!\ said Priscilla. \Now let's go Romeplace for ribs.\ \Later perhaps,\ said Tiarlow. \But right now, I thought we might have a conversation.\ \Oh jl;oody, goody, two-shoes I\ cried Priscilla. \I been looking everywhere for a boy who can carry on a intelligent conversation.\ \Your search iP. ended, madam,\ Raid Harlow, and pulled hack his sleeves and looked at his cuffs to pick a likely topic to start the conversation. Oh, woe! Oh, Iackaday! Those cuffs on which Harlow had painstakingly transcribed seJ many facts-thoRe cuffs on which he hud noted :-;uch divcrsr and fascinating information-those cuffR, I say, were nothing now but a big, blue blur! For Harlow -poor Harlow !-splashing around in the finger bowl, had gotten his cuffs wet and the ink had run and not one word was legible! And Harlow- poor Harlow!· -looked upon his cuffs and broke out in a night sweat and fell dumb. \I must say,\ said Priscilla after several silent hours, \that you are a very dull fellow. I'm leaving.\ With that she flounced away and poor Harlow was too crushed to protest. Sadly he Rat and sadly lit a cigarette. All of a sudden Priscilla came rushing back. \Was that,\ she aRked, \a Marlboro you just lit?\ \Yes said Harlow. \Then you are not a dull fellow,\ she cried, and sprang into his lap, \You are bright! Anyl>ody is bright to smoke such tt perfect joy of a cigarette as Marlboro which is just chock full of yummy flavor, which has a Sclcrtrate filter which comes in a soft pack that is really soft, and a Flip-To,pJ3ox that really flips, and which can be bought wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states and Duluth ... Harlow, tiger, waf'h your cuffs and be my love.\ \Okay said Harlow, and did, and was. <t. 1u6~ :.'!,, Bhuhnau * * * The makers of Marlboro cigarettes, who print this column at hideous expense throughout the school year, are very happy for Ha~·low-and for all the rest of you who have dis- covered the pleasures of Marlboro. . Harman, qb 3 3 1.0 Ums.cheiP,, e 0 2 0 0 · mic progress which refute that (Continued from Page 2) Eales, qb 51 5 0.- Sw!\m fb 1 0 0 0 6 President Nkrumah is ruining the room stirred by significant query Sbrega hb 3 0 0 0 Umon country economically, charges . and rarely is a professor inspired McCarthy hb 1 0 o:o Union totals lQ 2 4 2 *76 which allude to this or that per- to hanscend the pre-decided cur- Saw er; hb 5 _ 7 -1.4 Opp. total~, 21, 1:0 7 1 23.6** sonality trait of· Osagyefo Dr. riculum. One gets the uneasy feel- uniin totals 258 *744 *2.91 *Includes team safety agaJ.D~~ Kwame Nkrumah are inherently ing that we are merely going Opp .. t.otals 410 1942 4.7. Alfr~d. ~-*Includ. es sa:fety. :: ·.~, unfounded as it is . doubtful through the motions of what can. *Includes \Team\ loss of 36 yds. Puntmg: . . . : ···' whether anyone really knows, be the exciting experience of edu- Ttmes Y ds. except his wife, what the :man is ·cation. Passing: Kick. Kick. Ave. like. Western reporters·will Write , . This is not to say, however, A Cp. Yd Int. Td Cv. Bowman, e 5 148 29'6 1 an articLe __ o;r perhaps a P.ortion of that every wakened minute should Eales, qb 107 47 521 8 2 2 Burgwald, hb 37 10'14 ·.29.0 a book on his personality, goals be spent with our coUective noses .Stevens, qb 40 23 175 2 1 0 Dill, qb 5 124 24.8 in life, and his true deep feelings buried in a much thumbed copy of Hannan, qb 8 3 26 2 0 0 Union totals *49 *1346 27.5 . on any given topic. Or a reporter Finnegan's Wake. Li;fe, if lived Dill, hb-qb 7 2 19 1 0 0 Opp. 'totals 29 . 953 32.8 will report as fast any old rumor with opened eyes, .can be the most. Union to. 162 75 741 13 3 2 .. *Indudes two blocked punts not he hears, or what a \reliable enriching educational experience• Opp. to 103 40 552 6 4 5 charged to an indiVidual, sourse\ (often, apparently, a of all. What this .article is trying ~~_::.:::-~-~------,---=------~~-~-- person who desires President to say, however, can be reduced: a· l. gB· e'dz·ns Nkrumah's job) tells him. to a simple plea for a greater Anatomy .· Ur 'lH . . ·8 I hope that the above discuss- awareness of the deep satisfac- · · . • • 8 ion wiU induce the reader to be tion that open-eyed living can pr<'l- (Continued from .Page 3 ) The Union College curling very cautious about believing what vide. It is perhaps directed as ' • team wiH open its. bid for another he reads in the press about much to its author as it ·is to its game for A.lex Webster ..• it undefeated season early in Dec- Ghana. ·readers. certainly is interesting to note, ember. The curlers, who play on -:----------~~ __ ......:._::..;:.:.:..::.::.:_ __________ ; ·how many plays Morrison has the artifical ice rink of t11e Sche- brought in during crucial sit- nectady Curfing Chlh o~ Balltown uations which have gained good Road, will be entering their fifth y~J,rdage • . . they're coming out ·season and have yet to find an of the huddle again ... There's a interco}J~gi~!e 9pponent, • . shot of Sam Huff and Roosevelt An .pr,glill;nzatwnal meetmg Will Grier on the sidelines ... look at ibe h~ld:fov all sophomores, jun- UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT UNION INN-?17 Union St. ithe size of those twoJ! Tittle 1ors and seniors interested in curl- takes the ball, fakes to King and ing next Tuesday, Nove:mber 20th, . gives it to Morrison ... There's a ,at 4:30 p.m. in tM Admissions Lose Ball ! . . . let's see who Office in Oldgyni Hall, Freshmen LUIGI'S RESTAURANT . comes up with it ..• I believe will be welcC'Ime at the meeting, · that Cleveland has come up with but will not l;le permitted to cud • the ball (mther obvious at this 1~ntill after Christmas v:acation. · ··point since a Cleveland player is • seen cuddliu.g the pigskin like a Turkeys before Curling greedy clam. From here, Chris. 1 Uppercl'as$· membe~·s., of the shifts down to his \doom tone\.) purling team will commence prac- ''The Giant defensive unit is on tices right after Tha'!'I~sg1ving on 1 ~ 1 ~ 1 ,Qils~·~m.·h~. iiil·a~~:lm·v~e~tiiilr~ .. )(s~iiil.~~:e~·r·~~:,· im···i.f!!!··(·li!ml.e·)t.liw. the field ... (he runs through a once-a-week basis. Mr. :Pearson, ::!: ~ the lineup .for the fifteenth time the team coach, is. encouraging in the afternoon; the names team entries from campuS. groups, ~treng:then him.) •. , t4e)lrowns but states that any in~ividuals I!!J k:om!l out of their huddle ~ •. Ren- who show an interest wil1' be wel- li!J Repairs & Sales on · 1· ~ro is flanked out to th. e near side· come. He is hopefu~ of ~t·inging Specializing in llll \\ bf your screen . . Ninowski takes the team along suft'iciell:~ly ~is Italian-American food ~ all makes of I the snap :from center •.. fades year so that he can a.na~e mat- 1m I back , . • lie sees Clarke at the ches with s9me Harv:ard gtaduate 1125 BARRETT ST. ~ Electric Shavers I twenty ••• it's a. long one ••• f;ltudents, with the University if S h d 016 97 44 llll 1m Patton is covering fo~· the Giants.. Toronto and others, bp.t such c enecta Y · · - 1m 1m . he bats .it down INCOMPLETE ... meetings have been impossible I 0% Discount to Union Men ' Phone FR 4-9741 IJ what a BEAUTI'FUL JOB Jimmy to schedule in tb,e past ;:ind this I 1m Patton did on that play . • .And may .prove to be another dis- Enjoy Our 1m 724% STATE STREET 1m so it continues Sunday after Sun- appointing year for thtlse who Sizzling Steaks and. Chops iJ I day . . • WRUC was never· Hke want intercollegiate conl'petition. r.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~\'~illl~l1:ll~~~l!i!~IIDl!J~n~!m~~~I!!J~im~~~·~~~~~~~· ~11:ll~lill~l1:ll~!g]~jifj~~th~·J~·s~. ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; \We'll ha:ve some good intra- r · mut~al competition anyway/' Mr. · Pearson predicts. COLLEGE BRAND ROUND UP CONTEST CLOSES WEDNESDAY, DEC. 5th, 1962 Empty Packages Must Be Submitted in Bundles of 100 Packs (Separating 5 and 10 Point Packdges) at CAMPUS BOOK STORE .from 12:00 Noon to 2:00 P.M. on Wednesday 1 December 5, 1962 No Entries Will Be Accepted After Closing Time MARLBORO PARLIMENT PHILLIP MORRIS Jay Jewelry 315 STATE STREET :l:JiamonJo . . . Purchased in Belg:ium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. ALPINE Co, Arnold Fisher '50 A Maras Hand Football Coach Joseph Maras · will join Mr. Pearson at the curl- ing rink after the fh•st of the · year and .practices may go on a · twice-aweek schedule. Oompeti- tion will be open to indud~ fresh- men who have met the p-hysical education test requirmenls and -are on personal maintalhance. Coach Maras comes :fro\fi Hib- bing, Minnesota, home of v}le pre- sent N~tional· Curling Ch!l'rt.lPions. Brakes, Tune Up, W:heel Alignment and Balance 016~96~4 ./ 8 8 VV LANES 1723 Van Vranken Ave. ~~UDENT RATES 35c pl'lr· game lJ.P till 6 P.~. · · Weekdi]-fS· . 1 45c per game aftel' .. ~ ·P.M. m.td Weekends Bgr On Premises F~EE SHOES. (save 2oe) to · College Students 8 8 Firs· Ton The aboVE). form the i team in se .by Coach 1 at New Y(l The U .as the vat against sti N.Y. U. ~ and the co1 · Coacl}, well comp: holder in .t: school Al year's statE style, Bill ing sophorr Kal Schrtei year's rec< relay team this event. the potenti couple of l befol'e the) best. On Nov swimmers practice N although tl expeetatior ion lost oh the diving and Schaw formances, ltul Your fit year's tear cember 8; dual meet Williams. up agains1 every even depth the ( Grant, co-c ord holder stroke wit] onds, is g( full with , has tmne( 2:29; and will be fac petitor, Co medley. C pects to l Iiams' stro1 but wiil h: of WiUiari meet Arm~ have a bet tribute his The tea• year as th varsity s\ Henderson. mores Jir Evans whc varsity sq1 Morrison ' Europe .. J strong, it, on last ye1 ton didn't • team is sb Rochester· --- FIELI 3 (Across Save On (

30, 1962 ,f:ridoy, November ~0, 1962 • Yd. Gain 122 113 112 78 52 48 45 40 39 30 28 20 13 4 -3 FGPt. 0 0 12 4 2 10 Q 0 6 0 0 6 0 0 6 0 0 6 () 0 6 0 0 6. 0 0 6 0 0 4 0 0 6 4 2 *76 1 236** aga~m~ . :'. :~' Ave. 48 29.6 '14 ·29.0 24 24.8 46 27.5 53 32.8 punts not curling or another y in Dec- play on the Sche- Balltown their fifth find an will jun- in curl- mber20th, Freshmen meeting, to curl rling , of the prac- on g~·oups, be wel- ~l'inging this mat- graduate vet'sity if but such ;nd this dis- who mpetition. od intra- Mr. ph· Maras curl- of the go on a Oompeti- fresh- p;hysical and Rib- @.e pre- st. 8 Ave. 6·P.M;. I a•td to 8 First Test For Mermen Tomorrow In New York .. : '•'. ·.· -:- FIELD.:S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie. &Ivd. (Across from Trahi Station) --------·~-- Sa v:e On O~t Own Olde Village Pdvate Label Spirits ----.-:.....---~--- We Delive.r Free FR 4-6846 • Informal welcoming dance to start the fun. · • College Day at the Beach ... the biggest beach .party of the year. • All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon. Calypso music. Goml:ley Dancers. • Round Robin Tennis Tournament. • College Talent Revue. · • ;Fun Festival with jazz concerts, ,choral groups, dance contests. 01 Barbecue Luncheon. • Sightseeing. • Special Tennis Trophies. ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE The BERMU:DA Trade Development Board 620 Fifth .Ave., New York 20, N, Y. Union Cagers 'Athlete' Award Open Season To Terpening Vs. Middies By Fred Dill Midtown Barber Shop 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn I Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care Upper Union Street .- Presents ART FARMER TRUMPET and JIM liALL on GUITAR NEXT WEEK·: HO£ACE SILVER -.-also-·- GEORGE MONTERO JAZZ TRIO Nightly 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. at. 1-617 Union Street /_'>' ,1:, i;r,·. Titne Out By Dave Thurston HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Manriue B:. Granbart & Sons CORRECTLY CASUAL The shirt that makes the scene is the Arrow \Gordon Dover Club\ shirt. It is a cotton Oxford classic with the comfortable mediwn-point, softly rolling button-down Arrow collar. Placket front, plait in back - and back collar button. Master craftsmanship gives sharp appearance and comfortable trim fit. $5.00. --71RROW~ FOUNDED 1851 ~:IM~t _fo§l)~Qi/1e,G 5

6 Friday, Novemb.l;!r :30, 1962 Statistics Release·d Goodntan Trees ••• H • h d Telerp.ann, the G'.Major, G :Minor, 71 4: · . . arpSlC · Or · . • e • and D Maj0r, . two Preludes and 1.P'.I.Onane. • • . (Continued from Page 1.) Fugues inc Major an,d c Minor, (Continued from Page 1) (Continued from Page 1) . . . . It is higher pitched than a piano, from Book il. of the ''Well Tem- pi·ide in their work, he feels, than the tree grows indigenously as far . (Contmued from ;p~ge 1) . Wednesday night's conceit was pered Clavichord,\ and the \toe- do the majority of American north as Virginia. v.eh1ele of success for lts :pract1• the first of a series of three l'e- · cata in D Major\ by Bach. The Ad-lnterum Scholarship ~vorkers, He did not hlanketly rec- . The Poncirus trifoliata is a • tionel•s. . . . . . . . citals to be given· by Wilson in Report, released two weeks, ago, ommend this system for the Uni- member of the Rue· family of· Dr. Monane ha~ been Ass1st~nt conjunction with the material that Roh J indicates that the academic per- ted States; he merely intended to plants whose outstanding charac- Professo~ of Sociology at Umon his Music 23 class· is now study- · • • • formance of the Class of 1966 to make the audience realize that . teristic is its strong scent .. Fra- College. smc~ 1961. A graduat~ of ing. The two l'emaining c<mcertf (Continued fr.om Page 1) date has been slightly less .prom- there are other possible systems. grant flowers with waxy petals the Umv.erstty 0 .f Nor~h Carolma, wiH be given at 7:00 on Wednes- for various clubs and societies in ising than that of the p1·eceeding · Because of his dose profession- develop on the trees during May. he got h~s PI:D 1 !1 Socwlogy from day, December 5, and Sunday, De- the area. Thursday's corlVocation freshma.n class. Thit·ty freshman al connection with the develop- Bcause of thetree's hardiness, the Yale UmversLty m 1948. cember 9 at 4:00 P.M . .Sunda\'f \~as the first major public func.- attained Dean's List, 10.1% of the 1nent of youth, Goodman is parti- foliage usually i·emains until late concert will feature Wilson at the hon that Mrsl Pohl performed at Class, as compared with 41 fresh- cularly concerned with the work in the fall. According to Winne, L • b organ. since she left England. In the men, or 13.6%, from last year's of colleges. His views on the struc- it is because of the tree's hardi- • l . rary • • • Weilnesdav evening's ·prng-raw near future she is hopefully antic- class. On warning so far are 20 lure of American universities are ness that the fruit is of such poor (Continued from Page 1 ) included: fifteen two part .inven- ip·ating a return 'to full time .pro- students, or 6.73% of the .class; similar to those on society as a quality; the hardier the orange tions by Bach; three fantas'a·s b,· fessional work. last year at this time there were whole: he feels that there is too .is the poorer is the quality of the of the whole college community, r;;;;;;;~ ..... ~~~;;;o;;;;;;;;·;;;-;;;;·OOi·;;;;;.;;;;;;;o;;;;;:;;;..;;o;;;;;;;&:;;o;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; .. 19 freshmen on warning or, mcuh '~direction from above\ in the . fruit. Union's trees are expected however, is needed,\ he said\ 6 .. 29% of that class. 14 are on form of overorganized administra-: to grow to a he}ght of twenty feet Tolan pointed ·out further that academic warning. Regardless of :tions. The result is a 1oss of stu- • and have. a hfe expectancy of ·On this campus the students en- . the smaller number of students dent initiative and of a view of around th1rty years. ·Joy the privi1ege of an open stack on the Dean's List this year, the the true purpose of education. At. the pres~nt 1 no furthe,r ex- library, a .P~i_vilege which entails. average index for the freshmem ['hese views are the subject of his panswn of Unwn s Orchard IS ex\ a respons1brhty on the part of is 2.5; no average figure is avail- latest book \The Community of pected; but the results of the e:x:- .every person who uses the library able for last year's freshmen. · Scholars.\ 'In his closing words, periment. have :pleased the mem-. a respon.sibili.ty to sign out all Goodman appealed to the students hers of the. department to the ex- books a}ld other materials when .not to allow themselves to be so ~ent ~hat experiments alop.g sirn- taking them from the premises. A ·thoroughly indoctrinated with ex- . Il,ar hnes are currently be1hg car- loan of library materia'ls is rec- Greely To Speak At Vespers isting conditions that they will ned out. ognized only whel). contacted for . close theil' minds to other ideas in this way. \Each person using and methods. Patron· ,·ze Our the library can help us, and him-·. self, by insu1·ing that aU books 13'5 ERIE BOULEVARD 32. AMF BOWL.ING. LAN'ES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Rev. Dr. Da~na McLean Greely, the first president of the Uni- tarian Universalist Association, wHI be the guest speaker at Sun- clay's Vesper Service, at 7:30P.M. in Memorial Chapel. His to.pic is \How Far is M t. 0 lym pus ? \ As a result of student demand, Adve t• ,and other materials taken are . · r I Sets ·proparly signed out,';·he concluded. Erlward K. Tolan,. College Librar- ?~-~iilji~-~~~~~;iii~~~\'~~~~~~~~~~i ~~~~~~~~;;;~~~~~;;:;~~~~~$;5~~~~5~ ian, has announced that beginning : .' this coming Saturday, the all- night study room will be open fr()m 5 P.l\1. until 2 P.M. on Sun- day when the Library will reopen. A Graduate of Harvard College in 1901 and of Harvard Divinity School in 1933, Dr. Greely holds several honorary degrees, among which are one from Emerson College and Tufts University. Before the merger between ~the Universalist and Unitarian move- ments, Dr. Greely held the posi- tion of president of the American Unitarian Association. He is a•lso past president of the Massachu~· setts Coun.cil of Churches, the Boston Area Council of Churches, and several others. In 1958 Dr.Greely served as general chairman of the planning committee for the congress of the International Association for Lib-' eral Christianity and Religious Freedom. Among his non-relig• ious activities were the New Eng-1 land Citizens' Crime Commission. and the Massachusetts Governors Commission for the Study of Capital Punishment. He is a member of the Han~ard C'luL alai ~ .. , ltotary CluiJ of. Boston ;,: .! .. thL\ author of \To· wani L.rgcr Living\ and \.\. :\l,·.·::.::_.<• __ t .. Atlwi:;h;\ Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS-IN TOWN , I i ARE YOU AN ENVELOPE LICKER? A stamp strcker' A letter l'mter' Most of us aren '! That's why the telephone was .nvented. A Long O,;(d,J~e cail home rs so ITlUCh QU>Cker than WJI!Ing. Pleasanter. too because you're \home\ 'or a !rttle whrle Try rt. ton1ght Rates. are low· est. remember. every evenrng after 6 and all dav Sunday. New York Telephone DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages Suggestion: 118- 120 JAY STREET T .-- .' BUT NOT EXPENSIVE SWEATERS POLISHED COTIONS IVY SLACKS CAMPUS OUTER WEAR ADLER SOCKS Show Union Identification Cord and Get 1 0% OFF on All Merchandise Exclusive MAMA BIANCH.I'S Restaurant 1 135 Barrett Street Open Till l :00 A.M. on Weekdays and 3:00 A.M. ori Friday and Saturday Nights - Free Parking - BRING YOUR DATES ---~-----------------------------------------------! DIAMAN'·TE'S RECORDS OF COMEDY- JAZZ- CLASSICAL-- FOLK. Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked >Italian Food .in Our Comfortable Dining Room AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS OPP. THE. BROWNELL GATE ON NOTI ST. Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality arid Wholesale Prices OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. APEX MUSI·C KOR'NER Stote St. ot Corner of :Broadway Phone FR. 7-1112 · . ' ··. . . '. ' . ·- . .. . . . : '. - CAREER OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERING GRADUATE in a growing company • a dynamic .. ;:_. •,_:; :'·. :-:-·· .··-·:: ' RAPID GROWTH Du·ring the past ten years, kilowatthour sales of electricity have more than doubled and therrn sales of gas have more than tripled. Our studies show that this rapid growth will continue. Diversity of industry-· 10% of the nation's research-room to expand -are the keys to New Jersey's future. CAREER DEVELOPMENT Management personnel are prepared for ad- vancement through career development activities which include a planned training progtam, challenging assignments, performance ap\ praisals, and a variety of personal development activities. PROMOTIONS FROM WITHIN Public Service follows a definite policy of promotion from \vithin. Advancement is made on the basis of ability and accomplishments. RETIREMENT OF EXECUTIVES Daring the next ten years a high pro\ portion of om· management group will reach retirement age. POSITIONS AVAILABLE AFTER TRAINING COURSES Engineering, administrative and managerial positions in applied research, develop\ ment, planning, design, field engineering, operations and maintenance in the Electric and Gas Departments. Sales promotion, administrath·e af1d managerial positions in Commrrcial Operations Department. . SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE WHEN HE VISITS YOUR CAMPUS ON DECEMBER 10 Look f.or our booklet e PUBLI G SERVICE ELECTRIC~AN D GAS COMPANY New'ark, New Jersey C>f\/E or THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST SUPPLIERS OF ENERGY S .. :19 :PAP Pi Vol. 92 ..... Sino Skir Ana By The cont nese borde subject of Delta Chi 1 Several vi were re:pre lcharya, a and a prof1 dies at S1 the Indian] Henry Fer Asian stuc eu~sed the American' Mrs. leila \the problen the light of that India ] the Himala:y always look' good neighoc been lnvadec sions have lands. As r• Nehru and C fidence that : retain g()od ' ·, Quarrel O'v The quarr east border c is an uninhal Mahon line, der between ratified by ( according to feels that sir under the in the West, ii: of time. Anothe1· rn out by !char nism is. not it is in the ~re Cornmul1 ment along and it \'~as n China beca:rr India's pol was· also .me technology a living, y~t J ·be realized. summarized ophy by sayi ly with botr there?\ Ferguson: point in the Chinese nati• centered. Tht considered a barians. H pride has Ji1: atin areas l longed t~ ( areas is· the Peking cl: governm~nt M-cMahon Hz The Chinese they built a {Conti New Are The Gatesn omore o:t~ Admissiol\~,ii freshmen ar ing new me1 omore clas!?. by Jack Ili has recently 'lf the Stude Since S~I mately 350 have been ir and, of thes• been led by 1 of the colleg . fice has recei pective appl ilies comme1 group. The Gates1 of twelve their charte1 of between There will b to fiJi the s Membership present timE effort to ex in the cumi will be consi in the Gate~? Interested contact Ja Brooks, or may also le. Student Act

