childhood to come fields come unpremedi- write rap- on the Gre- at last Ave. FR 7-1112 and be- )'OU '\ Sup~tiY ·Men'$ Eye!: Dallc.!l Jewelers In In· bany, New. ch. ~. \. I (I l ~I' CALENDAR CONFLICT Page 3 Vol. 93 - No. 4 [I· ~ Clark Modifi.es Trimester Plan By Mark I\asowitz ~ .. •• Professor Leonard B. Clark, Chairman of the Depart- ment of Biological Sciences and the Division of Science, has proposed an aJ.ternativ:e to the \Davidson Calendar.\ The suggestion is, in essence, a modification of President David- son's plan, making the six week \tween term\ vohmtary for all students. ·• The college calendar would con-® sist of two terms, each of at least I fourteen weeks, and a \tween · term\ of not less than seven weeks. Each student and faculty c ~ member would carry the present load during the two longer terms, (instead of the four subject load in the Davidson plan), with the t 1 • \tween-tm·m\ being reserved for ' independent study, special courses, \ or as a period for work, relaxa- 1 1 ti{)n, or travel. The faculty could also use the period for scholarly tt work of its own, or for develop- '! , ing and offering experimental • courses, on or away from campus. ! . ~·· ' \''( Winter Summer Session Students taking courses during the \tween term\ period would pay extra tuition as in summer school, and faculty giving courses would r«ceive remuneration on the same basis as for summer school. Under Clark's plan the first term would begin .at the regular time for a fourteen week semes- ter (a week earlier for a fifteen Bust of Washington now in library week semester and would end be- • • • fore Christmas. The tween-term period would begin immediately and would run for eight calendar weeks, or until approximately the second week of February. The second semester would then run from the third week of February until about May 30, with a one week spring vacation. Program's Advantages Dr. Clark points out that the advantages of such a plan would far outweigh the drawbacks. The so-called \lame-duck\ session aft- 11 I. · er Christmas would be eliminated, while that period could become \educationally more meaningful.\ The suggested calendar could also f serve as a stage in the orderly ' ' • transition from the present cal- l endar to the full implementation . of the Davidson Plan. If it should develop that the Davidson Plan • · has undesirable features, the re- duction of the terms with a ··I lengthening of the tween period with required courses could lead • l.t to the three ten-Week term calen- i dar. , ' An important innovation made ~ possible by t~i~ plan is that s~u­ dehts so des1rmg could combme \ ·' (Continued on Pag-e 6) il, i~ t i I f • ft!' ' ! i J il 1 ·~ ,, I 1 I~' Commandant Reviews ROTC Religious Progmm Started. The Campus Religious Council announces its sponsorship of a new program, whereby fraterni- ties could invite Schenectady re- ligious leaders to be guests for an evening meal. Bulletins will be issued next week to the fra- ternities, _giving details of this program. Bust Given To Library Founded at Union College ln 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY,OCTOBER 4, 1963 JAZZ HISTO:RY Page 2 PRICE ,15 CENTS Alumni Trustees iHook To Discuss 1 1ni tia te. Elect New I Power And Religion Fund Drtve Me~nbers By Jeff Lander Sidney Hook, world renowned philosopher and a critic of international politics, will speak at the October lOth convocation. Professor of Philosophy and Chairman of the Department at Washington Square College, Hook -----------0 is presently teacher of over one Convocation Sileaker Sidney Hook Banquet hundred thousand students. Be- : sides teaching at New York Uni- \ versity, he also conducts a Sl.Jn- i l'ise semester course in ethics on 1 CBS television. Hook is also the 1 Head of the Department of Phil· 'I osophy at NYU G1·aduute School 1 and Chairman of the Division of Philosophy and Psychology. Outside of his academic career, Hook is organizer and co-chair- man of Americans for Intellec- tual Frreclom, and a former pras- ident of the Eastn·n Divistun of the American Philosophic .A-ssoc- iation. Hook's most recent pllb- lications are: \Political Power and Personal Freedom\ ( 1959), and \The Quest for Being\ (1961). Is Leading Pragmatist A student of John Dewey, Hook is considered by many to be .the !earling pragmatist in American Philosophy today. Dealing niainTy in within the spheres of .mpral, social, and political philosophy, Hook staunchly believes. that philosophic ideas can and do in- fluence social action. Defending the experimental scientific method, Hook consid- ers it to be the only logical ap- proach to knowledge and moral decisions. Considering himself a \skeptical God-seeker,\ he has attempted to emphasize the in- ability of religion to withstand this scientific testing. In his book \The Quest for Being,\ Hook states that God ha.s been created to explain the unlmown. Though not considei'ing this question un- important, he argues that Man can live morally without attempt- (Continued on Page G) RPI Starts Six Year Med Plan By Albert Y. Nahmias

2 <nnnrnr Publlehell !\rldays du,lng the school IJ Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union h St d t BodY of Union College, Publication Office, Sche- :vear by t e u en nectady Printing Company, 602 Colleg-e, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- Broadway. Entered In the Sche· tiona! Advertising Representative: nectady Post Office as Second Class National Advertising Sewlce. Inc.. Mall Matter. Subscription 15c a Colletre Publishers Representative. copy; $3 a year delivered anywlwre 4 20 Madloon Ave., N. Y. c. In the United States. SENIOR nOARD DAVID BERE:-:Stl~ · 64. FR 2-6583 ................................... Editor in Chief IVENS LEFLORI-: • G ~ .. !JI 6-9895 ............................... Business Manager ' SDIO:-l SOBO • tlL. . . . DI 6·9848 ................................. Managing Editor ~~=D ~D~~~ :::··:::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::: :: · .: .. :: ::::::::. ::::.::::::~~=~: :::~:; LARRY HOROWITZ 'G&....... .. ................................................ Feature Editor 3 ............... Advisor WILLIAM T. WINNE ' 4 ................................ .. · · · JUNIOR !lOARD 1!ai<E>·l'P F.ditor Michael Berson '64 · ·· ·· · ··· --· ··· ····· c y Edit()l' !\lark Stron1 •65 : ... ·-A~~i~t~~t- 'Fearire Edi-tor Rkhard ~ifton ~ R~ .o .................. Aaaistant ~ews Editor RobPrt Hoffman 'llG ······ · ...... ................... . Exchangt> Editor W!lllam ;\laufHus '66 ..... · .............. ...... .. A\•ociate Editor Glen Holzhacuer '66 ..... . . Associate Editor Jeffrey Lander \GG ..• •.. . Assor.::iate Edito-r Peter :ltllsky '66 · · ...... -- ..... ...... ....... ... .. ........... · Associate Editor ~~~~r R~~~~~:;:~n -~~ 6 .. ::::::::::::::::::::::::: : ... :::::::::~~i:;~~~.;:·:~dv;~~~s';~i:t~!~~~~ Mark Obenzlnger '65 ............................... · ............ Local Advertising Manager Richard Resch \66 · ........................... ..... Subscription Manager Robert Klein '66 ......................................... ............................... Circulation Manager Robert Bonchak '66 ................................................................. .. A Serious Deficiency Most students and professors have become aware that there are serious deficiencies in the Union College library. The many years of using the Nott Memorial for a library have taken their tolL Due to the lack of space in the Me- morial the acquisitions program had to be cut back with the result that many of the books now at the Schaffer Library are hopelessly out of date, and sources from the last ten years are virtually non-existent in some fie~ds: The college does not subscribe to many important penodtcals, and those periodicals which it does receive are often found lying about with only glue and string loosely holding them together. Mr. Tolan and the library staff have attempted to solve some of the problems besetting the library. There- arrangement of the periodical and bibliographical sections this year has made it easier for students to find informa- tion. In addition, more emphasis has been placed upon inter-library loans to obtain needed materials missing from the Union library. Yet, no matter how much the staff works to improve the library they will not be very success- ful unless they receive more money, and the present college plans call for a cut in the percentage of the budget allo- cated to the library. If the present budget projection is followed, the li- brary will receive a 30% increase in available money be- cause of an increase in the total size of the budget. We feel this is not enough. The college should be preparing to make a massive expansion of the library, not sitting back and letting it grow slower than the college as a whole. Of course we- realize that at most institutions, and especially at Union College, budgets mean little, departments often spending sums greatly exceeding the budgeted allotment. We had naively expected that since Union has just drawn up an extensive long-range plan, priorities had been as- signed to future projects and reasonable budgets had been drawn up for each. Evidently, this is not the case, and the library and other departments will have to continue grab- bing as much money as they can, regardless of any long- range plans. An institution of our size can never expect to have a completely stocked library. However, we can expect a library in which an undergraduate ca:p. make a reasonable start in any research project he undertakes. The trustees, faculty, and administration ought to sit down together and draw up a meaningful plan of library improvement. Strengthening The Bonds To an observer, the I.F.C. Workshop this past week was very impressive. We still have our doubts whether fraternities will continue to exist at Union or anywhere else in this country, but Mike Miller and the I.F.C. must be complimented upon starting on the one path that gives fraternity men any chance of remaining in the bonds of brotherhood twenty years from now. PoetKennethPatchen Featured This Week When We Were Here 'fogether , From \When We Were Here To- gether\ Copyright @ 1957 by Kenneth Patchen. Reprinted with .permis- sion of New Directions. Wnen we were here together in a place we did not know, nor one another. A bit of grass held .between the teeth for a moment, bright hair on the wind. What we wet•e we did not know, not ever the grass of the flame of hair turning to ash on the wind. But they lied a:bout that. From the beginning they lied~ To the child, telling hiin that there was somewhere anger against him, and a hatred against h.im, and only for the reason of his being in the world. But never did they tell him that the only evil and danger was in themselves; that th~y alone were the prisoners and the .be- trayers; that they-they alone- were responsible for what was be- ing done in the world. And they told the child to stm'Ve and to kill the child that was within him; for only by do- ing this could he safely enter their world; only by doing this could he become a useful and ad- justed member of the community which they had prepared for him. And thi::; time, alas, they did not lie. And with the death of the child was born a thing that had neither the character of a man nor the character of a child, but was a horrible and monstrous parody of the two; and it is in his world now that the flesh of man's spirit lies twisted and despoiled under the indifferent stars. When we were here together in a place we did not know, nor one another. 0 green the bit of warm grass between our teeth, 0 beauti- ful the hair of our mortal goddess 011 the indifferent wind. The Origin of Baseball From \The Selected Poems of Kenneth Patchen.\ Copyl!ight 1952, © 1957. Reprinted by permission of New Directions. Someone had been walking in and out Of the world withoQt coming To much decision about anything. The sun seemed too hot most of the time. There weren't enough birds around And the hills had a silly look When he got on top of one. The girls in heaven, however, thought Nothing of asking to see his. watch Like you would want someone to tell A Joke-\Time they'd say, \what's That mean-time?\ laughing with the edges Of their white mouths, like a flutter of paper In a madhouse. And he'd stumble over General Sherman or Elizabeth B. Browning, muttering, \Can't you keep Yom· big wings out of the aisle?\ But down Again, there'd be millions of people without -Enough to eat and men with guns just Standing there shooting· each other. So he wanted to throw something And he picked up a baseball. Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: To the Editor of Concordiensis: In each of my four yea1·s at A senior year often ends more Union College I have been told quickly than believed possible. So that the incoming freshman class this letter becomes a belated but is the best in the school's history. still sincere note of appreciation Despite this fact the \All Men's for services rendered by at least Index\ has consistently fallen. I one part of Union's staff. feel that one of the reasons for Erstwhile described as inhabi- this fall has been the lack of in- tants of the nipple, perhaps still texest incentives and demands thought of as railroad station made upon the Union student. agents, the college library staff One of the best incentives is l'epresents to me a somewhat outside study and research. The rarely found university phenom- assignment of this research is ena-a student oriented service. seriously inhibited by the condi- The staff's specific aids to my- tion of our library. How can we self and several other members do research when the necessary of my class need no public enu- material is unavailable? I recog- meration, but I believe their will- nize that theft is a problem but ingness to so act does. Their as- even more important are the sistance in obtaining and retain- books which are never purchased ing needed materials, their man- for lack of ~unds. It is all -yell ner in doing· so, and their open- and good to ~mpr?ve the physi~al mindedness toward improving plant but th1s Wlll not mold m- their services, eliminated for me a terested students nea~ly ~s much · good part of the normal d! udg- ~s a well stocked hbraiY: The ery associated with papers andre- hbrary staff has been t1·ymg to search fill the gap but is unable to ful- · . . fill the requests by professors for P~rhap~ the days of JUmor year new books much less fill in the e~gmeers _boasts. of never step- voids caused by neglect in years pmg foot m a hbrary are past, past. alt~ough some professors have The answer is to spend more ~:la1med a mo1·e perfect record, money. What is the good of a perhaps they ar~:m't, but Profe~­ scholarship for a superior student sm·. Tolan an~ hts st~ff and th~1r if you do not supply the most im- des~1·e to ass1st remam a defimte portant tool for his education? Umon asset. Mark D. Dopkin '64. Stephen G. Dickerman, '63. -Catnpus Briefs October 4-'The Union program of films will begin this season with the presentation of 400 Blows at 7 and 9 P.M. in E.E. 22. This French film, produced by Les Films du Carosse and directed by Francois Tru1faut, is a narrative of a French adolescent and his growth' into adulthood It has won several international film awards. October 5 - This Saturday's football game at Alfred will be transmitted by WRUC. The warm up show will begin at 1:45 P.M., and the game will be in at 2:00 P.M. Dave Braff and Bob R1ce will broadcast the game play-by- play. October 6-The annual Hillel sponsored Tri-Cities area mixer- picnic is being held in Saratoga Springs. Vassar, Skidmore, Russel Sage, R.P.I., Hudson V:J.lley Commun- ity College, and the Junior Col- lege of Albany have been invited. Tickets are available at the Stu- dent Activities Office, and the cars are leaving from Silliman Hall Sunday morning at 11 :15 A.M. October 8-A Student Council meeting is scheduled Tuesday night at 7:30 P.M. in the Hale House Student Lounge. All stu• dents are invited to attend. October 8-An important meet- ing fo1' all station members has been announced by WRUC at 4:30 P.M. Tuesday in Old Chapel. The purpose of the meeting is to elect a station president. October 9-Anyone interested in debating is welcome to attend any meeting of the Philomath- eans. Meetings will be held Wed- nesdays at 7:00 P.M. in Bailey Hall October 10-Professor Sidney Hook, Chairman of the Depart- ment of Philosophy at New York University, will speak at the sea- son•s second Convocation Thurs- day in Memorial Chapel at 11:30 A.M. A leading social and politi- cal philosophe1·, Professor Hook will speak on \Religion in a Free Society.\ October 10-Dr. Raymond Rap- paport of the Department of Bio- logical Sciences will speak Thui·s- day night at 8:30 P.M. in the Pl1y-sics Lecture Room. The sub- ject of the Sigma Xi Seminar is the \Division of Animal Cells.\ October 11-Friday is the last day for dropping a course with- out penalty. Friday, October 4, 1963 , Friday, ( '·'.: History of l~;zz The Distaff Side ,, ·scl Ov By Tom Kt·ehbiel One of the highest compliments one can pay a musician is to say that he makes his instrument sing. This is no less tl'ue in jazz than in the classical idiom. Even jazz terminology attests to this. Such phrases as \wailing \shout choruses,\ \the jazz cry,\ and others are good examples. In spite of all this emphasis on the weal aspects of jazz playing, there have been only a few vocalists who could be classified as jazz singers. This scarcity is at least in part due to the lack of a SJlit- able definition of p1·ecisely what a jazz It is generally agreed that im- provisation is an important basis of the jazz style, but a sing- er, being for the most part tied to a set of ly- rics, is very lim- ited in the rhythmic varia- tions he can in- ject into a per- of course, also limits his melodic freedom. Per- haps someday, as Jon Hendricks feels, someone will come along who will be able to improvise both a coherent lyric and melody sim- ultaneously, but for now singers must follow the words which some other person has given them and do the best that they can with them. And some do very well, Females Enter Ja-zz Following the convention of \ladies first,\ we shall d~vote this column to a discussion of the fe- male jazz vocalist. The first ma- jor lady vocalist in jazz was Bessie Smith. Bessie was born in Chattanooga in 1894 and was raised in the terrible poverty known to many Negroes living in the south at this time. While she 'vvas in her teens she joined Ma Rainey's Rabbit Foot Minstrels as they passed through. For some time after that she worked in tent shows, carnivals, and honky-tonks. In 1923, however, her luck chang- ed. Frank Walker of Columbia Recol'ds heard her and sent for her to come to New York where she made her first records in Feb- ruary <lf that year. By the end of 1923 she had sold over two mil- lion 1·ecords and was on her way toward becoming the most pppu- EXClUS.IVE EUR9PEA:N: FILlr,tS! I YOIJ HAVE tiEVER SEEN All• \''riG Iff THE WORLD LII<E ... JOSEl'll E I TECHNICOLOR@ i:llllo!od !y i!Dll'ffiR~ JACOPfTlJ A• ~twed 1>J PETER USnNOVI.,- \\',..- Jar Negro entertainer in this country. Bessie was very fo1•tun- · ate in having Frank Walker man- ·; aging her financial affairs. At a i time whe_ n Negro performers wei'e , 1 . being mishandled and often cheat- ed by their manage1·s, the honesty .. of' Frank Walker was very un- I. us?al. Details of the~r relation- ! shrp and a broader v1ew of her ' life are available in an ~u'ticle ) published in 'I'·he Jazz Makers \Qy I Bvergreen. B<loks. This article also clears UJ:> much of the mys- . tery which surrounds her death in ' an auto accident. A popular story ·~· is that she bled to death because 1 she was refused admission to a i hospital because of her colol'. 'J While this makes interesting.,, folklore and _points out the hm- f rors of racial discrimination, i.t is apparently ill founded. 1 Besiilie Smith was certainly one of the great jazz artists of all ~ time. John Hammond wrote, shortly after he1· death, \To my 1 way of thinking, Bessie Smith ~ was the greatest artist American 1 .. jazz ever produced .... She was . one of those Tare beings capable of projecting her whole person- ality into music.\ Her records are now available on four Colum- ·. bia LPs which may be purchased together or sepa1·ately. Any one of these is a fine introduction to both Bessie Smith and the art of ' singing with a jazz feeling. (CL 855,6, 7,8 ). Billie Holiday Appears l The next great female jazz i.• . singer was Billie Holiday. She 'j was discovered by John Ham- ~ mond while she 'l'ras still in' her teens. (John Hammond wal'! and~-,. is jazz's greatest talent 'scout. He was instrumental in the discove1y , of not only Billie Holiday, but also Benny Goodman, Count Bas,ie, Lester Young, Teddy Wilson, • Charlie Christian, and others.) In ; 1933 she made her record deb1.1t 1 with Goodman, but her real fame came 'from a series of all-stal' re- ~·~ cordings m~de with Teddy Wilssn ,~ in the years of 1935-39, and a number of her own name begin- , ning in 1936. During those yea1·s ) she was also -vocalist with the o1·- •r chestras of Count Basie and Anie · Shaw. Throughout the forties and fifties she tou1·ed as a solo at- traction. She died in 1959 in .a , '. hospital in Manhattan, where, be- (Continu.ed on Page 3) Now Thru Wed! \WOMEN OF THE WORLD\ Shown at 6:30 and 9:50 \THE BEAR'' Shown at 8:25 117 Mohawk Ave., Scotia RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ -CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway For three Generations ••• Those Who Know ••• Have been recommending - HERSHEL Phone FR 7-1112 MAURICE 8, Maurice B. Granbart & Sons '\3 Union Graduates in Graubarf: Family''· 166 JAY ST. FOR. HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWE,LRY Recent.] deal of sion con< posa-ls fo As :it no1 plan11 ha each co: amount IJ professor change i: sil·able, l to be th: mitted it and no l down is Foremc dars is Plan wh presently the scho• two twel' fall and ing these earry fot be a six New Yea would ca copsistin1 course c courses. the prop• COUl'SeS d week ter: on each ble. Th fusion oJ more, th offer the depth, all oply of < cational sor Gh'dr SlOn Plan flaws, sll pervising a means students term. Tn A seco monly re system. years ag the dire< nett and over the headed l authori~E plement committE gestion they cat: 10-10 idl the scho into thr• the stud• three s1 of a I would b This pl:a ceived b: II, but l in the o 8 ~ l723 s 35c p• 45e pel 8 B FREI1 H~ Bll 1 OV• -II -1 open M.l - Won at I OHer

Friday, October 4, 1963 3 , ·scho~ol Faculty Differs Over New Calendar Campus President: Morrison Airs Views I Jazz Female Singers Sul!cumb Many female singers in the jazz idiom have succumbed to the call (Continued from Page 2) of the dollar and have turned out cause of laws which consider nar- little musical candy bars to satis- cotics addiction a crime and not a fy the public taste. Two of these sickness, she was arrested while are Sarah Vaughan and Dinah ner in this very fol•tun- Walker man-·; At a i formers wei·e • often cheat- I , the honesty .. very un- I. relation- j view of her , an article I Make1•s by . 1 This article of the mys- her death in · popular story ·~· because 1 to a · her color. '! interesting . 1 , out the hm- r it is I certainly one of all ~ wrote, . ath, \To my Smith J American 1 .. .. She was capable · person- Her records four Colum- · be purchased Any one to the art of feeling-. (CL l female jazz i• , She j' John Ham- ~ still in· her wa11 and . ·scout. He ~ '· the discove1y , Holiday, but Count Bas,ie, Wilson, • others.) In ; record deb~1t I real fame all-star re- ~·~ Wils~:m ,~ and a name begin- , those yea1·s \ with the Ol'- •(· and Anie forties and a solo at- 1959 in .a , ~ where, be- · 3) (By Eric Levy Recently there has been a _great · A third plan has been suggest- d!\al of con~roversy an~ discus- ed by Professor Clark who terms Sion concermng the various pro- it \A Modified Davidso:n Plan.\ pos~ls for a new school c~lendar. The college year would consist of A~ ,It now stands, three different two terms, each of not less than plans.· have . been sugges.ted, a!ld .!.fourteen we_ eks, and a between- each commands a substantial term period of not less than seven amo.unt of facul!Y s~pport. Some I weeks. The length of terms a:nd professo!-\s mamtam that no the hetween-terr:n period would c~ange IS necessary or even -de- be determined. .Students and fac- strable, but the concensus seems ulty would carry the normal pres- to. be t~at the college has ~om-. ent lead during the two terms, m1tted Itself to effect a switch, and the six week between-term and n? resp~ctable way to back period would be a time when the down lS available. students would be free to engage Foremost in the list of calen- in undirected independent study, dars is the so-called Davidson· to participate in comses which Plan which several colleges are may be offered by the faculty, or presently following. It moves that even to use the period for work, · Pictured above ave Mike Miller, Pres. of the I.C.C., and student h()dy President Lawton Morrison. Morrison's views on matters of interest to the camus are presented below Miller's will be presented next week. By Richard Sifton the school year be divided into relaxation, or travel. During the two twelve week term&, one in the between-te1·m period, the faculty fall and one in the .spring. Dur- would be free to use the time to ing these terms the student would .pUl'sue scholarly work, to develop carry four coursas. There would· and offer experimental courses be a six week term right after on or away from the campus, or New Year's, and here the student just to travel and relax. Stud- would carry six hours of clasl!les, ents taking courses during the consisting of either one full year between-term period would pay course or two single semester uxtra tuition as in summer school, courses. The rationale behind and faculty giving courses would the proposal was that with four receive remuneration on the same coul'ses during each of the twelve basis as for summer school week terms greater concentration com·ses. The President of the Student 1 been motivated enough to antici- on each subject would be possi- Body does not dil·ectly influence 1 pate important problems, thus ble. There would be less dif- Compromise suggested or initiate legislation put forward forcing the faculty and adminis- lying on her death bed. Washington. In spite of many of It is very difficult to describe their recent recordings they are . the beauty of a BiHie Holiday still fine jazz vocalists when they performance. She acknowledged a want to be. From a jazz point of · g1·eat admiration for the work of view Miss Vaughan is heard in Bessie Smith and of Louia Arm- good form on No Count Sarah . strong, but her style was almost (Mercury 20441) on which she is : entirely her own. The .similarity accompanied by the Count Basie · of her singing to the .playing of band. Dinah Washington's jazz tenor saxophonist Lester Young moods may be heard on Best in has been noted, but this does not Bhtes (Mercury 20247). : tell the whole story. Billie could McRae in Fold : take the most banal set of lyrics Carmen McRae is also !!ecurely ' and breathe life into them. Every in the jazz fold on a number of · word carried a punch it never had her recordings, the best being • before. And the jazz feeling was ·Lover Man, a tribute w Billie • there, ioo. The only way to know Holiday (Columbia CL 1730). : what her singing was like is to Nancy Wilsol! seems to be the ; listen to her recordings. The best most promi$ing young singer to- ; introduction is Lady Day ( Colum- day 1 and she nearly outshines bia GL 6:37). It contains most of Cannonball Adderly's group Oil · her very best work from the late the LP they made togethe1· (Capi- thirties. If this recorEI. \gets to to! T-1657). Last and certainly you,\ you should then consider not least is Anita O'Day whose Commodore #30008, titled simply singing gave birth to all the Chris \Billie Holiday,\ Columbia's three Connor's, June Christy•s, etc. so record set The Golden Years (C3L in abundance today. She has re- 21), and any other record by her corded heavily on the Verve label you can name. Even her later and is a great deal more to be recording-s, When her voic~ was admired than those who have tried supposedly failing, carry an emo- to ape her style. Rear her Trav- tional impact seldom found in jazz lin' Light LP and you will under- or any other music. • stand (Verve 2157). ftffTTTT9'f'+T'TTT¥tTTTiYTtf'f¥it''tf'f¥T¥t¥ff'ftiff¥i fusion of study time. Further-· Professor Clai·k stater:s that the by the Student Council. How- tration to intervene. more, the six week term would suggested calendm• would remove ever, it is :perhaps fitting that, as Four Committees Organized · offer the opportunity to study in the so-called \lame duck\ session the highest student officer in the 1 In orde1· to achieve greater co- depth, and would stimulate a pan- after Christmas and consolidate college, his views on campus mat- ordination in the Council, Morri- oply of experiments in new edu- the Christmas vacation, the week ters be presented, particularly for son has organized all fot·mer com- cational techniques. As Profes- between present semesters, and the benefit of the freshmen. Fori mittees under four main ones: sor Gil'dner points out, The David- the spring vacation into a period this purpose, Concordiensis has Student Life, Council Operations SlOn Plan shows a few impol'tant that may be educationally more interviewed Lawton Morrison, Campus and Plant, and Faculty~ flaws, such as a method for su- meaningful. Moreover, it could: elected to office last spring. Next Alumni-Trustee Relations. Hav- pervising disti·ibution credits and serve as a stage in the ordei·ly. week, a similar interview with ing done so, he feels that a means of handling all of the' transition from the present cal-. Michael Miller, President of the more experienced councilmen will students during the six week endar to the full implementation Interfraternity Council, will be more effectively be able to use term. of the Davidson plan. (The dif- present7d. . their .talents. To insure greater DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 126 JAY STREIT Trustees Re-examined A second calenda1· plan is com- monly refel'l'ed to as the 10-10-10 system. It was examined a few years ago by a committee under the direction of Professor Ben- nett and was rejected; however over the summer a committee headed by Professor Allen was authol'i~ed to seek ways to im- plement the Davidson Plan. The committee decided that the sug- gestion was not practical, and they came out with the old 10- 10-10 idea. Under this proposal, the school year would be divided into three ten week terms, and ference lies in that students would MolTtson, a 5-year combmed Council-student communication hs ~bf~~u~~~~-d~fumEl~~~~~~-ri~~dE~-~~r~C~o~n~ti~n~u~e~d~o~n~P~a~g~e~4~)~~~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~-·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~~~ nomics major and member of, and courses during the six week Ka,ppa Sigma Fraternity, studied I between-term pe1•iod would be two years ago at the Swiss Fed- voluntary instead of mandatory.) eral Institute of Technology in If it develops that the stated cal- Zuri-ch. He was President of his endar has undesirable features, Class in his freshman and soph- the reduction of the terms with I h . f omore years. a engt enmg o the between- Last year, following his elec- You have room for growth in data processing-at IBM IBM offers graduates with bachelor's or advanced degrees in Engineer- ing, the Sciences, Business Administration, Economics, or Liberal Arts; challenging assignments in the marketing of information systems and equipment. • Ned! WORLD\ 9:50 n at 8:25 Scotia the student would probably carry ·t..· three subjects. The equivalent of a present one year course would be taught in two terms. This plan has been warmly re- ceived by most of Divisions I and II, but has met much opposition in the others. term period with required cour!,les tion, Morrison stated that he could lead to the 10-10-10 calen- would \strive always to see that d!lr ... Perhaps one of the most the student body is well informed sigmflCant advantag~s of P~ofm1- through the Student Council sor Clark's scheme 1s that It al- which, I am sure, will make it- low:s all ~epart~ents fr?edom . of 1 self sensitive to the currents of action without mterfermg w1th ·change and controversy which in- ot:her segments of the colle&'e a~d volve our college growth.\ His w1thout all departments bemg m ideal is to see the complete con- a loc!{step. The P.rop?sal would trol of student life assumed by perm~t students so mclmed to ~se the student community through the six week between-term period its representatives. In the past, for course~ and two summer ses- students have not demonstrated (Continued on Page 6) a strong enough desire to do this i nor have their l'epresentatives • 9 f i' 'f # 'i' f W f ¥ f f f + Y Y f f T T Y ¥ f t f T i t t t f ·f f i Y t f 'T T f f f f ¥ f Rewarding opportunities exist in more than 190 IBM Sales and Service Offices located in major cities throughout the United States. • Thes eopportunities increase with each new system that is designed to meet. the growing needs of business, industry, gov~rnment, resarch, education, or space. • Sons · I I 8 8 V V LANES l723 Van Vranken Ave. STUDENT RATES 35c per game up till 6 P.M. Weekdays 45c per game after 6 P.M. and Weekends Bar On Premises FREE SHOES (save 25c) to College Students 8 8 HOLIDAY BILLIARDS 1625 Curry Rd. 10 Min. From Campus over Cross Town Spur - In RoHerdam Shopping • Special Rates 10:30 AM -5:00 P M lADlES PLAY F R E E open 1 0:30 AM ~ 12:0Q,,< . ...... •. MIDNIGHT -: DAILY- --COUPON- Worth· SOc While Playing at HOLIDAY BILLIARDS Offer Expires Nov. 15, 1963 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked ltctlian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. 1 •• ' • I I. • ' • ' .... J. A 4 .... 4 ... 4 ••• 4 ... + ••• 4 J. 4 .. !, ••••• A 4 .......... nave·s %quire ~hop Now featuring the ~§ (i. WOOL HERRINGBONE I SPORT WI COAT I ,, at ~ 19·' 5 In four rich fell colors. Sises 34 to 46 Regulars, Shorts, Longs. 326 STATE ST Daily to 5:30 • Tue~. & Thur. 'ti19 TEL. 377-3061 wide range of positions Marketing: • The IBM Data Processing Representative is a consultant to his customers. • He demonstrates how customers can achieve better business management and controls through data processing. • Systems Engineering: • IBM Data Processing Systems Engineer; are men and women who study customer requirements in depth, devise an approach, define a preferred machine and operational solution, and assist in implementing this solution. • Customer Engineering: • The IBM Customer Engill.eer is a specia.list in precision data processing ma.chines and systems. • He is responsible for the installation and maintenance of IBM's vast line of electronic and electromechanical equipment. • opportunities for advancement IBM, an Equal Opportunity Employer, offers you extensive training in the area of your special interest. • This training c:ontinues as you ad- vance along a planned career path leading to professional or managerial positions. • We also have comprehensive company-paid benefits plans ... training programs to keep you abreast of developments in your field ..• and a tuition-refund plan to give you financial asiJistance for graduate study. • on-campus interviews See your c:ollege placement director to determine when IBM will inter- view on campus, and make an appointment to see our representative. If the interview date is inconvenient for you, please write ot call: • John A. Fleming, Branch Manager, • IBM Corporation, 19th Street, New City 14, Colorado, GR 7-2661. IBM will interview November 15. • MOV,E AHEAD WITH IBM DATA PROCESSING a

4 Union Students Report March on Washington Lawton Morrison (Continued from Page 3) · nities and the campus as a whole Friday, October 4, 1963 1:---------------.-------..-, Integration Crisis: Heritage ; I l will attempt to draw in greater is that of 1·esidency. Morrison numbers of interested ~?tudents. ·has formed a committee to look By Alan Denker and Leonard Korn~,__________ -- .. -- · · His opinion of the IFC is that into the residence policies of other f I it and the Student Council have· institutions and into every other By Roland Ciaranello l \Just like a tree that's standing walk away. But we'll t!lrn .them b::jsically similar problems. The aspect of the students' living en- This is the fourth in a series of me most was the fact that they I back; they not only Will hsten, IFC · · l' d · vironment. Regardless of h. is co.n- by the water, we shall not be they will understand. For that · IS a more specia Ize orgam-: articles dealing with integration spoke their feelings truthfully. d, 1 . h h zation whose p1.1rposes are to ex- viction that Union's social facili- in Virginia. This week's a•·ticte The alcohol had not heightened I move • 1 \\as a battle to s ow t at \:'e h~ve ert educational, coordinating, and ties are adequate, he feels that attempts ~n analysis of the bot- the intensity of their hatred; it But we were moved. Tl d: th.~ weapons. Now the flghtm.g; disc-iplinary influences on the fra- the college is overextending it- tom stratum of white society. had only fired up their reckles~- \ d d 'd h letyh atn I' Will be held wherever there IS ternities which comprise about 70 self in its future plans for dormi- Next week'.s a·r·tl'cle contt'nttes tht's us poure - 1 you ear a· - d •h , th · . . . • . . · · · Th 11 ness. d . t . W h ·, t t\ I nee. ' \ ene\ er ere IS oppor- per cent of the full-time student tory constrU.ctlOn. e co, eg.e analysis, culminating in a discus- . • we poure Ill 0 · as mg on. · tumty, and by whoever can see b d B d · . th IFC t k would save money by allowing ThE>y continued their vitupera- 1 ,·[· flood of buses and t~O~l' huses 1 that the thesis for mankind is . 0 y. t ydsol 0 f 1 ?g, ·ke ff fathes students to live where they v.·ant sion of the Negro's dream fDr to- tives for the remainder of the were fuH, .packed w1th people,' .freedom .·3; grea · ea 0 ., wor 0 o e morrow. i\ waving singing smiling people. 1 - • •• . • . ~tudent Counc1l s shoulders, but and would, in Morrison's opinion, One of the reasons 1 chot>e to journey. For the most part, they I The concrete linE> from New York fhere 18 an old expressiOn that m no way su.percedes the latter. better satisfy the students at the study at Virg·inia this summei· merely reiterated their previous . City to Wa_shington, D. C., sway- .• says tha.t yo~ can't have ~our The lFC_, as tp the case of t~- e same time. The college's advan- was the proxilnity of my rela- statements, embe1'lishing them ~ ed under those buses one after 1 cake and eat 1 t. The American St.udent. Council, has ~ot yet 1e- ta·ge in its present policy is that tives. Waynesboro is only 25 with new profanities. I was gt'at('- 1 1 another like a mess of ants after ! N egr{:) has neither owned nor bit- ahzed 1ts ful~ potenttal, as t~e fraternities fi·nd it almost impoR- mil ell from Charlottesville, and 1 f'ul when the big red cat•dinal a lump of sugar; the line swayed I ten into his piec~ of cake, whereas. rece~t academ~c tro~~les have Il- sible to build for themselves. have been hitch-hieking in on t'~~~lde~~: ~he~~ynesboro, ami .lj under the shouts both joyous and 1 others .. hl;lve .en.~oyed ~oth. B~t lu~t;ated,, agam f~HCl~~ th.e ad- Academic Side lmestigated week-ends to see them. So far, 1 angered and under the pravers , l'Vell p1eeeful coextstence ts ImmstratJOn. to mten ene, the Monison is also invelllig.ating have encountered no noteworthy This is only one of the count- said and not said. You couiun't: nut a panacea for the Negro. IFC, as an mterest ~roup, should the academic side of college experiences, but today proved' less incidents which have marked l. help but feel the spirit--it was I From the few crumbs of leg. al have h.andled th.e SituatiOn. T~e through the Student Life Commit- quite the opposite. the passage _of this summet'. A there real-you could touch it equity to the meager slice of recent\Y formed IFC .Scholarshtp tee, headed by Vic Fazio. One of Hitch Hiking month ago, I prophesied that it , · Ther~ was a lot of eagerness and 1 economic and social recognition Committee, he feels, IS after the the plans is to discover the ex- . . . 1 would be 'tumultuous'. Even this \ a lot of deep thought but mostly 1 tiH the final breaking of the fact a~d ~opes that the S.t~dent tent of student participation in I was .h1tch-h1kmg on .the Jef- does not do justice to the intense l there wer_e a lot of buses full of I b. read, we shall persevet•e, we. Cothmcll wb 1 1 11 be. abtlhe tfo tan~!Cipate academic life by organizing stu- ferson H1ghway e3;rly Fnday aft- racism which has sWept through 11 , a whole lot of people. have the right. sue pro ems m . e u me. dents departmentally to discuss emoon. As car after car P.assed the South. The violence which 1 • • Professors Not Pnmary Influence academic preparation and evalu- me by, I cursed them accordmgly. has flared so far cannot help but Some Couldn't Hear ' :\larch is V1ctory , Carrying ~the fraternity and ate programs along with faculty But one final~y stopp~d, ~nd I engender further eruptions. Wh~t- The peaceful people have gone campus-wide academic situation members. Later in the year, there The dr1ver was m h1s Ia~e ever lies ahead will not be pleas- And more, a lot more: there home· the March on Washington further, Morrison said that it :has will be a prototype meeting of teens, a frail, . ant. was a past, a .present, and a fu- is hi~tory But Martin Luther long been his opinion that pro- this sort with, probably, members unkempt - look- ture that ~mted these people. K'ng is n~t history He is still• fessors are the primary- academic of the 5-year Engineering Pro- ing boy with The people d1dn't ?aye .far to l?ok allve, still speaking, still fight-, influence, not t~e, fraternities. gram. The outcome of this meet- one arm in a· Bottom Stratum to fmd t~e pa~t, 1t was. ben:g in . And his speech, when it is !3lame f~r l.ow. md1~es can not ing is of particular interest to sling.. Next to These people were members of entombed m. wh1te stone nght 111 re~poken by those people will JUSt be mst1tutionahzed as has Morrison. him sat a man; ~~=~Ul~ ~fveS~~fh!~~ ~hit~ 0 ~ 0 °cf- . front of the1r eyes. But what of not be repeated as Li~coln's' been done with four houses. If As an excellent example of stu- I guessed his ety. Herein lies the stronghold the people who coul~n't see the \Gettysbur Address\ has been' the indi'Vidual student, supposedly dent-faculty cooperation, Morri- age to be 40 or monument or couldn t hear the I by counties~ schoolchildren, rnem-. m~ture enough to meet college re- son cites the Lectul'es and Con- so. In the back of segregationist sympathies. In ~p~ec~es? They too knew of the I oi·izing words without their quuemen~s, .does not perforll? ade- certs Committee. The almost un- seat, next to me, the course of the conversations InJUStices, the hates, deep and, · g . quately, 1t IS then up to h1m to believable improvement in the sat their com- prior to the bottle-incident, they ~· shallow; we all know them, but i meanm · · \cut his own th1•oat.\ Any col- Convocation series since his first panion, another had told me of their vocations. -~ some just turn their heads and \I have a dream.\ · lege action should be taken in the year here indicates to Morrison . boy in his teens .. None had had any education to .I' best interest of individuals rather that there are highly motivated dt•inking quite speak of; all were unemployed. ~----------------------------,.than against groups·, the college students on campus with a desire. h '1 th 'l f b r bot They embodied a heritage of ig- eaVl y, as · e P 1 e 0 ee - norance and preJ'udi'ce whx'ch 1's \'' should \speak softly and carry a to do something concrete. tles attested. One offered me a . . ·,:1 FALL AT ITS FINEST Our new Deansgale Suits embody the newest in fine, pure wool fabrics •.. plus our classic natural shoulder styling. There is l'lo finer combination! $69.50 big stick.\ beer; I refused, preferring to stay both saddemng and revoltmg. As One of the greatest problems sober for whatever lay ahead. I I left them I. thought to myself :urrently facing both the frater- David Berenson, Editor in was quite concerned: the Jefl;er- t~<l:t people hke that ~h'!uld be · Chief of the Concordiensis, has son Highway winds and snakes pitied, but ~owhere Withm my- ·r WALKER'S PHARMACY, INC. N. J. Comanzo-H. L. Walker 509-511 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. FR 4-7709 ···.·· ................... ,. FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Train Station) Save On Our Own Olde Village Private Label Spirits We Deliver Free FR 4-684'6 announced that positions on the into the Blue Ridge at times as self could I fmd any sympathy. paper are still available to any in- high as 4000 feet above the Shen- As long as the society which f terested freshman. Anyone inter- endoah Valley. Driving this road makes the laws permits this ty,~e ested in writing, business, or lay- is difficult even for the best of of event to occur, then we w1ll 'f~l out should report to the Concor- drivers; the thought of a one- hear of even more shattering vio- diensis office Monday and Wed- armed drunk atte~?pting fit i 1 ~ not lence. For it is this stronghold, , I nesday evenings at 8 p.m. the most comfortmg of ee mgs. a bastion o.f reactionism and dis- i We had gone 10 or 15 miles be- crimination, which dictates the tt Zipp's Barber Shop Complete Barber Ser'lfice 1 569 Van Vranken Ave. 3 Doors Up From Sra nch Post Office Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Catering to Union College Students fore we stopped, presumably for ebb fl,nd flow of racial prejudice. '' more beer. The driver returned, With nothing to occupy their hands carrying two quart bottles. These or minds, they have turned on i were passed around, the driver the Negro as a scapegoat for ·¥'- performing some amazing no- their failures and frustrations. 1 handed feats with the wheel. By They scream for blood loudest of 1 this time we had gone another all the segregationists. They ' mile or so, and one bottle was throw the bombs, break the win- empty. The boy next to me op- dows, fire the bullets, carry the ened the window to discard the torches. They have not initiated bottle. He was stopped by the the violence; rather they have be- older man, who had evidently come the pawns of more ingeni- spotted a Negro up ahead. The ous leaders. It is natural that bottle was passed into the front they should become so-not only seat. As we drew closer to the do they hate with unmatched ve- Negro, he flung the bottle out the hemence, but possess the fool- window. It missed its target, but hardiness to transmit their ran- crashed sufficiently near to startle cor. him greatly. \Fuckin' nigger,\ they screamed back at him: \Fuckin' goddam dirty nigger.\ Bred in Ignorance Bred in ignorance, lacking an education or the means to attain one, they have passed their ha- tred from generation to genera tion. To rationalize their pover- ty, they have pounced upon the Negro-the only people below them on the social scale. Quiet Outburst I sat in the back seat, shocked. I had heard of things like this, but had never actually seen such an outburst. I turned and looked back at the Negro, still walking placidly along the road as if noth- ing had happened. No one seemed to be disturbed except me. I loathed them and what they stood for: ignorance ant;l unreasoning hatred. Foolishly I turned to the boy next to me and asked \Why?\ He laughed at the ludicrosity of my questio11, a look of disbelief on his face. This quickly faded to Midtown Barber Shop anger as I repeated the question. \Befause he's fucking black, that's why.\ He pointed to his skin. then grabbed my hand, holding it next to his. \See that? We're white. He's black. He's nothing but a goddam nigger. Not worth the trouble to kill them In their attempt to make order out of chaos, they accuse Negr(] workers of stealing their jobs, of working for lower pay. In short, Negroes are \out to get them.\ As long as the Negro is given work, \decent white folk\ will be out of jobs. What is not men- tioned is that the Negro secures only the most menial of jobs. Negroes do not work, for exam- ., ple, as sales clerks, shopowners, attendants, or a,ny of the othei' Jobs which even an unskilled white may hold. Job opportuni- ties do not abound in the South, but they exist for the whites tn areas closed to Negroes. T}}e Negroes do not steal jobs-they take what they can get. The in- justice of the situation is obvi- ous, but to be discriminated against and then accused of stealing another's job is only the • first of a long chain of insults. 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn l Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care all.\ \Niggers the driver grated harshly-\I'd like to cut off their fucking balls. They're nothing but a goddam bunch of sneaking dirty cocksuckers.'' I was startled by the vehem- \' ence of their replies. What struck Jay Jewelry Co. 3 15 STATE STREET ::biamon~ ... Struclt by Oneness One is tempted, when assess- .r, ing this segment of society, to lump its members into a meld and stereotype their characteristics, While a fault in analysis, it is , nevertheless true to a marked ex- tent. I was struck by the one- Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. I . ness of their thoughts and opin· ions. They exhibit no behavioral differences as one passes from \ · one phase of their liveliiwod to I. anothei'. If one were to ; select one characteristic trait in' their thought, it would be rancor; They envy, and inevitably come to hate those both above and below them. '],'here is no unity amongst them; instead they nibbilize only when their personal security is threat- ened. They have had, for the most part, a common economic upbringing, and this heritage has done nothing to change their way Arnold Fisher • SO __ j of thinking or acting. Friday, C Gat At1 B~ An im appeared. close of Alexande: the Dutc Lawrence point. Bt bined dep cut assu: l-ine in bring tltt halt. Tht of center Ray Lis tackles J !\1oiTison, and John mirably i1 stanzas, stant acti chapter · most par earlier eJ DeMicb Utica, w: individual sists, and Garnet of gained hi this weE team. A slot Bob for diag: even the plays · In Sab Dutchme1 died the less firs could sus anxiety stands a: fell incor D1 The s Dutchme1 ed twice to the E though tl pegged a derdog. The G~ their ow of assort back Ton swingbac their wa Then wit spent in found M with a game's kick for was unsu to the leJ Midwa period F: quarterlr. fumble-o to capit_a· quarterb: series oJ Larrie do EC.1: Bob Bob Dt backer-cE lege foot on the Athletic all-East blocking defensivE It wa~ week fo1 Academy with hal: \Dutchm which if coaching players dinarily game. A pre! 6-0, 180- tackles c Union g: of the g: was in o: virtually Union lo utes, 21- \We l linebacld been her said in ll the we~ nered t~ three ya1 his half Both~ tomorrov Alfred i: its initi~ campaigJ (Acr Fl Lel

4, 1963 that they If truthfully. heightened I hatred; it reckles~- ir vitupera- of the t part, they previous them was gt•at(!- ed cat·dinal ami ~ .. ir i\ I ~ i I I \j the count- I marked l A that it · · . Even this \ the intense l through 1 1 which help but What- be pleas- urn of the bottom white soci- • stronghold pathies. In they ~· vocations. to of ig- which is ~::1' As t to myself should be within my- ·¥. 1 which f this t:v.~e ~ we w11l 'I vio- { 1 stronghold, L sm and dis- 1 the tt prejudice. ' their hands turned on i apegoat for l • ·~· d loudest of They the win- carry the initiated have be- ingeni- that only ve- s the fool- their ran- lacking an to attain their ha- to genera their pover- upon the below make order ccuse NJgr(] jobs, of In short, get them.\ is given will be is not men- secures of jobs. for exam- ·· shopowners, the oth!H unskilled b opportuni- the South, whites 'in The jobs-they The in- is obvi- accused of is only the of insults. assess- society, to o a meld and aracteristics. it is , marked ex- by the one- and opin- behavioral passe.s frorn \ . livelihl)od to to : select in' their rancor; They to hate below· them. them; only when is threat- for the economic heritage has ge their way Friday, October 4, 1963 s :Garnet Gridders Outlasted By Larries; 1_ and 1 Slate At Alfred Tomorrow For Second Effort For ~ooters By Rtek Ct·oolces By Dave Phemister •·-------~-----~-------------- The Garnet soccer squad ear· l'ies a 1 and 1 rec()rd into tomor- row afternoon's heme encounter with a strong Hamilton College team, after coming frcm behind to trim Rochester 6-4 last week- end and then bowing 8•0 Wed- nesday to a powerful Hartwick ; College contingent in their home .i debut. : An imi>ressive Garnet victory appeared sure and ea13y at the close of the third quartet· on· Alexander Field last Saturday as the Dutchmen had shut out St. Lawrence University, 19-0 to that point. But alas, the Larries com- bined depth and determination to cut assunder the weary Union J.ine in the fourth period and bring tlte Dutchmen to a dead halt. The Garnet line, compoRed of center Bob DeMichele, g:um·ds Ray List and Pat Fantauzzi, tackles John Harvey and John :\1oi-rison, and ends Pete Wenger and John Soper, all pet'fQrmed ad-1 mirably in the contest's first threP stanzas, in which all saw con-I stant action. By the game's final chapter they had lost, for the most part, nearly all of their earlier I'Xplmlivent'ss. DeMichele, a sophomot·e fl'om Utica, was credited with twenty individual tackles and seven as- sists, and also performed in every Garnet offenfiive play. His efforts gained him the center position on this week's E.C.A.C. All-East team. At his center line-backer slot Bob has an uncanny knack for diagnosing and reacting to even the most rapidly .developing plays · In Saturday's contest both the Dutchmen and the Larries han- dled the ball twice in the score· less fi1·st quarter, yet neither could sustain a drive. Tension and anxiety permeated the Union stands as several Garnet passes fell incomplete. Dutchmen's Delight The second period was the Dutchmen's delight, as they scor- ed twice, and appeared superior to the St. Lawrence eleven, al- though the odds-make1·s had them pegged as a three-touchdown un- derdog. The Garnet initiated a drive on their own 34, and with a series of assorted passes from quarter- back Tom Hitchcock to Soper and swingback Art Marshall, worked their way into Larrie territory. Then with scarcely four minutes spent in the period Hitchcock found Marshall on the goal line with a soaring aerial for the game's first score. Marshall's kick for the extra point however, was unsuccessful as it veered wide to the left of the upl'ights. Midway through the second period Fantauzzi recovered Larrie quarterback Barry Feldman's fumble- on the enemy 27. Trying to capi.t_l;i.lize on the break, veteran quarterback Joe Stevens ran a series of power plays over the Larrie defense and four of them ECAC Chooses Bob DiMichele Bob DeMichele, sophomore line- backer-center on the Union Col- lege football team, earned a spot on the weekly Eastern College Athletic Conference small college all-East team for his hardnosed blocking and especially his superb defensive play. It was the second honor this week for the former Utica Free Academy athletE!. Be /l,lso sh~tred, with halfback Terry Dutton, the \Dutchman of the Week\ award, which is given by the Union coaching staff to the player or players who performed extraor- dinarily well in the most recent game. A press box chart credited the 6-0, 180-pound lit;~.ebacker with 20 tackles during the St. Lawrence- Union game. A careful analysis of the game film showed that he was in on seven more. He played virtually the entire game, which Union lost in the final two min- utes, 21-19. \We haven't seen his kind of linebacldng at Union since I've been he1·e,\ Goach Joseph Maras said in mal{ing the ' 1 Dutchman of the Week\ award. Dutton gal'- nered two touchdowns and fifty- three yards on ten cat·ries to earn his half of the award. Both will be ready to perform tomorrow when the team faces Alfred in an attempt to capture its initial- victory of the current campaign. SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate l Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts Saturday':; victory was a Cin·: derella story for the Union boot-' en; who found themselves unable ! to get ~turted in the first two i periods of play. TraHing 3-0' through nwst of the half, Ron- ' nie Prins broke the scoring ice 1 for the Dult:hmen with a penalty' kick in the last minute of play. 1 The comp exion of the game was: . . changed completely in the second I · · .:·.· · · half however, as the Beaudrymen! John Fulle1' (18) tries to elude a Hartwick \tackle\ during the Gar- c~me su~·ging. back. Junior ol!t-j net's unsuccessful bid to up~;et the top 10mall college soccer team in >'Hie Sthevtlle 1 Sllhnondh~ dscoreq dmtd- 1 the East. The 8-0 loss brought the hooters season mark to one and way roug 1 t e t tr per10 on , an assist from fullback Gary one, as they enter tomorrow s game. Brown, and then proceeded to ---·- -- - -- ·- --- ---------- ----- ----~--­ knot the contest 3-3 by firing AI Hrdlicka (34 with ball), led by quarterback Joe Stevens (13), home another tally late in thE sweeps around right end during last Saturday's losing effort against same quarter. The pressurQ St. Lawrence. Hrdlicka averaged two yards per carry on only three mounted as the final periQ<I be- carries,. but broke into the scoring column when he added the Garnet's .gan, but the inspired Garnet uineteenth point on a conversion. Stevens, showing his versatility by squad remained cool. Talented throwing a block, also picked up twenty-one yards rushing and com- Ronnie Prins, a Netherlands pleted six of eleven passes fol,' 105 yards and one touchdown. ·61 in preduct, broke the deadlock short- background is guard Pat Fantauzzi. ly thereafter, heading one by the I Rochester goalie on a nifty pass were just enough to send shifty . F h Harrt·ers from wing John Fuller. halfback Terry Dutton into pay rOS Sudd-en Shadows dirt with the leather. Stevens at- tempted a. two-point conversion Begt·n , 63 Season with a pass, but the ball was hat- ted down in flight by an alert Uni()n's hopes brightened, but were suddenly shadowed as in- 3ide Rolf Kasper and Fuller defender. Union added seven points to its margin in the third quarter as the Dutchmen drove 82 yards in nine plays. The march was capped by a screen pass from Stevens to Dutton who then scamp- ered fifty-five yards behind some strong Garnet blocking, thus making the score an impressive (though short-lived) 19-0, the one point conversion being made by AI Hrdlicka. The game's final chapter was dismal indeed. Fresh Larrie troops surged onto the field and crashed the weary Garnet line, scoring thrice in rapid succession. With 11:44 remaining, Jeff Johns plunged one yard to score, fol- lowed by Munn, who sprinted to the end zone as the clock showed 7:22 left in the game. Both touch- downs were garnished with one- pointers off the toe of Michael- son, yielding a Larrie score of 14 points. St. Lawrence quarterback Munn lost no time in engineering a 53 yard drive to the Garnet end zone with 1:44 on the clock. Again Michaelson added the extra point, to render a final and fatal tally of 21 for St. Lawrence and 19 for Union. It was a fine effort by the Garnet in their first of- ficial meeting of the season, and certainly a rough way to suc- sumb. If the sq}lad can play the brand of ball they displayed in the first three periodiS they should be a formidable challenge to any opponent. Tomorrow the Dutchmen ven- ture to Alfred University in quest of theit· season's first victory. The game is scheduled for 1:30 on Mert•Hl Field. Last year the Gar- net eleven were overcome by Al- fred on Alexander Field, 25-11. Alfred has faced Cortland and Brockport already this year, win- ning both contests handily. Other Scores Susquehanna 12 - Youngstown 7 Trinity 27 - Williams 0 Hamilton 34 - Rochester 28 Upsala 22 - Hobart 7 \This is the best freshman banged heads during the spirited group I've had for cross\country play around the Rochester goal. in the last five years. We should Both were rushed to the hospi- have a fine season.\ tal, and required thirteen and six This is the enthusiasm with stitches respectively to close theit· which Coach Ketz describes the wounds. The Dutchme11 rallied freshman harriers as they run without their two frontliners how- into shape for their opening meet, €Ver, as Larry McCray put the tomorrow against Lenox. game on ice with a pair of goals. Running three to six miles The versatile co-captain display- every night, the freshmen have ed the value of experience, be- built a good team. The first four ing· in the right place at the right spots have been nailed down by time to pop in b(]th of his scores. Ron Cherinko, John Moran, Neil Rochester came up with a goal Campman, and Charles Fenimore, in the game's waning minutes, while the vital fifth man may be but it was too little, too late for either Ed Manfred, Spencer, Hunt, the Yellowjackets, whose loss or Ed Strohsal. paralleled that of the Union foot- The team has run $0 well that, ball squad last week. in addition to their seheduled four meet season, Coach Ketz is enter- Garnet Outclassed ing them in the New York State Wednesday's game pitted Un- tournament, to be held later this ion against ~;>ne of the top ranked month in Buffalo. squads in the East. Hartwick, After Lenox the Frosh will en- who won the New York State tertain Vermont on the 12th, then title last year, and who has been visit R. P. I. on the l!tth and scored upon only once in its thre~ Colgate on the 25th. outings this year, posted an 8-0 whitewash over the outclassed Applications for the position of Garnet hooters. The team from Assistant Chairman of Freshman Oneonta, which .boasts several Orientation may be obtained fl·om standout athletes fr(]m abroad, the Office of the Dean of Stu- showed the Union spectators a dents in Old Gym. A successful fine brand of soccer during th~ Assistant Chairman is the likely ~oursa of their triumph. · The candidate for the Chairmanship first period was evenly played, the following .year. with both teams threatening from I Candidates should be present time to time, and Hartwick scar- sophomores, or juniors in the five ing once; howaver this situation year program. ·was soon to be changed. The Previous experience as an Ori- visitors took command early in entation Counselor is not neces- sary. Applications should be returned to the Dean of Students' Office before noon on Friday, October 11th, 1963. For further information con- tact: Phil Evans, Chi Psi - DI 6-9829. Wally's Diner • ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 the second quarter, exploding fori The game tomorrow against four goals \yithin ten m!nutes. Hamilton \\:ill mean something T~ere was little change m ~he more than JUSt a victory or de- thu·d quarter, as the Hartwick feat for the Dutchmen. Coach ~ooter~ contin?a.lly kept t?o b:~~;ll Bob Beaudry, who comes to us m Umon terl'ltory, and f1red m from Hamilton where he was the three more marker~. The Union assistant soccer and head swim- dllfense tightenoo in ~he fourth ming mentor, will have his boys;; quarter,_ and some scormg threats up for this big one again01t his were fmally put together, but former associates. The Contin- the Hartwick. nets war~ .not !o be 1 entals will be tough, sporting dented. . Whtle the vtsttors de-, two All-America candidates, but fense baffled the Garnet front both Garnet co-captains and this line t~trough_ou_t the contest! All-~ columnist feel that the Garnet Amencan wmgman Walt P1epke, bootet·s are set to reestablish who scored four times, and in- their winning ways. side Nick Papadakis, who tallied three, dazzled the Union back- field. Several fine saves, seven- teen in all, by Garnet goalie Jan Barkman kept the contest from being even more one sided, as the quick stepping H:artwick front line feinted past the Dutchmen defense time and again. Lone Bright Spot Ronnie Prins, who was voted the outstanding playflr in last SaturG.ay's game at Rochester, loomed as the lone bright spot in the Garnet attack Wednesday; but the help necessary to put to\ gether a scoring drive was not to be offered from his mates. Patronize Our Advertisers CADET-NECK ZIPPER FRONT SWEATERS Stripes & Solid Colors 6.95 6.95 Ak 334 State St. We gladly Cash your checks NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue Jack's Corner· We Special_ize in --P.IZZA- • STEAK AND SAUSAGE SANDWICHES -Orders To Tak~ Out- FR 7-9898 1555 Van Vranken D&J AUTO StRVICE Home Made Pies Boulevard Bowl 1 372 Union St. Good Coffee BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE 01 6-9644 • 325 £rie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 ·P.M. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian .. American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES •TYfTTtfitff'f''fT't'TTfffffYTTTVTTWt'fTtYT'fft'fTYftt+ UNION INN 517 UNION STREET 11 1 5 Barrett St. I ~~~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EXCITING NEW WAY TO PROCRASTINATE Running out of pencils to sharp· en and roommates to talk to? Try this exciting way to put off study· ing! Call home! Tell your mom and dad all you're doing (or not doing). They'll love hearing your voice! Long Distance rates are lower .every evening after 6:00 and all day Sunday. Extra low for many calls within New York State after 9:00 p.m. • . <®New York Telephone ·.

6 Rappaport Gives N~=!nue~,~~e::~~ S X: ,. s h the six week tween-term with two l ·g m· a ,., ~eec summer sessions and graduate in · ., June of their third year. Econom- ically this idea is not only advis- Dr. Raymond Rappaport, Jr., will be the speaker at able, but almost imperative for those students who are suffering the opening lecture sponsored by the Union College chapter economic hardship, for they would of the Sigma Xi Society at 8:30 P.M., October 10 in the be entering a productive program Physics Lecture Room. ~ a year earlier~ The talk, \The Division of Ani- c· I d Program Avoids Winter mal Celis,\ will be concerned . a Cll ar • • • Other advantages pointed out mainly with the physical mechan- (Continued from Page 3) are: a considerable saving in heat, isms operating when an animal t · f 'l't' 'ght b s~ons, thus making possible grad- e c., as some aci I Ies mi · · e cell divides. Because the cell is 1 d d · th ld · t uation m June of their thlrd year. c ose · · unng e co er wm er relatively so small and fragile, the th f 1 t D b J nu 1Jean Huntley has devisea an- mon s o · a e ecem e1·, ·a - approach to understanding it has other modificatiOn of the David- ary, and early Febl'Uary; the eve- involved unique patterns of ex- · d' ·s· · ht f 11· w th son plan. He !eels that auring mng . IVl Ion mig o · o e P erimentation. He will illustrate t ·t t d I'th n~ the two twelve week terms eaCh · wo erms sugges e w \ his speech with two or three ex- es d ri'ng the tween ter·m smdent will take four or five cours · u · · - · periments on the intricate cells. courses Wlth the same class sched- period, thus eliminating travel! Dr. Rappaport entered Bethany d · g th st ha ardous peri'od u1e now in operation. The six urm e mo z I College in West Virginia, from f th y r per 't elect' a t Wee] ' ter·m wou·!d ofter all ki·n\s 0 e ea ; 11! 1 · wn s o which he forfeited his scolastic .~ u 1 d f t d t I of electives. so tila·t .ther·e wou·lct course oa , or.· as more s u en s deferment to enter the army after - t k d · th t never be. a case where a student a e courses urmg e ween- three years of undergradua~e d b f d t b term period, faculty may choose 1 study. The fourth year of credit wou! e orce 0 carry su to have their loads reduced dur•l necessary for his Bachelor of Sci- Jects sucn as l<'resnman .t.ngllsh . th t th th . ence degree was completed at Col- durmg tne concentratiOn period. mg e erms ra er an receive • 1 ut· course, a great dea·l oi r·ev1·s- extra compensation. , umbia University after his re ease from military service. He receiv- ion alld preparatwn must be done Plan for 64-65 Feasible • 1 . ed his Master of Science degree to set up a list of electives avail- Also, the pian would make pos- · from the University of Michigan. able durmg the .six week term. sible an integration of the sum• After he received his Ph.D in vnginally, the lJean aavocated mer school into the over all col-~ 1952 in the field of Growth and tnat the college contmue wlth the lege program, and the use of the Development in Embryology from present system, but llke many tween-term as a period for trail- Yale University, Dr. Rappaport others, he feels tnat there can er sections. It is pointed out that I Joined the faculty in September now be no retractwn. this plan could be put into effect !I of that year. A member of the .l:'roressor Jrox argues that the by September, 1964, and could Pre-Medical Committee, he is a 1\'Iathemat!CS Department can operate on a five da·y week. Professor of Developmental Bi- scheduLe 1ts courses to meet the The disadvantages noted' by ology in addition to his research requuements ot e1the1· the Dav1e1- Professor Clark are few. Firstly, activities. son or 10-10-10 plan. He pre- the student load would not be re• Sigma Xi ters the latter, because it spreads duced. Also,. it lengthens the time. The purpose of Sigma Xi is to out the pos;nble course of1ermgs from beginning of classes in the i encourage scientific research. auring tne year; a .professor can fall until classes close in the Founded in 1887, the local branch, do someth111g duferent w1th hls spring, although, Professor Clark one of the oldest in the United class each term. He pre1ers it remarks, many faculty and stud\ States, meets once a month to· over the present system, and reels ents are read·y to begin work im- read lectures and papers from t11at it is defuute!y worth a trial. mediately after Labor Day. The scientists. The new trimester calendar plan reduces the terms slightly would allow the math major to and otherwise substitutes one va\ complete his reqUITements ear- cation ,period for another. Convocatl • on Her, thus perm1ttmg hrm more • • e electives durmg hls Junior and (Continued from Page 1) ;:,emor years. Supports Clark , ing to explain t!:tis u!Lknown.. Professor Rappaport thinks qo!lcerned w1th mternab.onal that Protessor Clark's idea rep- political movemen~s, Hook IS a resents the simplest and most defender of Amencan democracy painless way of slipping outt of and ~ vehement opponent of Com- 'I tne present system. lrurthermore, . mumsm. . In . 1961, at\ a rou~d he maintains that the Clark plan table d1scusswn of ~estetn would provide more time for in- Values and Tota~ War, H?ok novation and experiment than is reduced the questwns concer_nmg presently enjoyed. Professor n~clear war to a ~oral cons1~er- .t<appaport states that to im- abon. He stated, If we sunen- plement either the Davidson or ~er our value~, w~ open the flood the 10 _ 10 _ 10 plans a profound gate for totahtanamsm to sweep amount of reconsideratiOn and through the ~orld • · • We 111:ust re-evaluation of the present cur- !lever .lose Sight of the ethical riculum would be necessary. How- Issue. In the end, each one makes 1 h · · b f' · 1 his own decision on those mat- ever, he fee s t at It 1 ~. ene ICJa ters. Supporting the use of nu- to shak.e up the. cui :Iculum at clear weanons as a defensive ~ollege, because . l.t gives g;r~at agent against Communist aggres- 1~petus to creatiVIty and origm- sion, he concludes that \The free ahty. man is one who in certain situa- . Of a!l the plans now under con- tions refuses to accept life if it s!deratwn, Pr?fessor ~appaport means spiritual degradation.\ fm<is th~. tnmes~er 1~ea the Born on December 20, 1902, least ~xc1tl?g· F_1rst, 1t would Hook received his Bachelor of ~esult m a Jam-up m courses that Science degree in 1923 from the ~nvolve la~orator:v: work. Second, College of the City of New York. lit woul? hit certam f!lculty m~m­ Furthering his study at Colum- bers wit_h a staggermg teachmg bia University Graduate School, load durmg par~ of the year. We he received his M.A. in 1926 and would have to fm~ seven and one- his Ph.D in 1927. half more teachmg h?urs per week (a fifty per cent mcrease). Timt; Cenlt;r Jt;wt;lt;I\S RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE Six Year. • • (Continued from Page 1) a student who, at the end of two undergraduate years at Union, went to medical school at the University of Rochester, return- ed to Union to complete his studies for an undergraduate de• gree. Expansion Expected At present the R.P.I. plan is under limited operation. It will be expanded next year, and the ultimate goal is to have one third of R.P.I.'s pre-meds enrolled in this program. This is not the first plan of its kind. Johns Hopkins has a simi- lar plan. However, this is the first plan joining units of two separate universities into a co- operative medical education pro- gram. The _olan arose out of the mark- ed decrease in the number of medical school students. The eight years required for medical study discourages many capable individuals. By decreasing the total time to six years, it is hop- ed that qualified individuals wil! be attracted, once more, to the medical profession. DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: SILVERWARE GLASSWARE DISHES \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ J. NOGEE & SONS Inc. BUY WITH CONFIDENCE GOOD ANSEL Successor to S. MORRIS & SON Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phono FR 4-4429 - 28·34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. .l. TIME . CENTER JEWELERS ~ :J/w .J.Jou6e o/ Chartn6 428 State Street JHIMBLE STATE$ CIF U. S, ERASER • .1 Friday, October 4, 1963 IFC • • • l An alternate rushing plan, how- size the importance of scholar- ever, was drawn up at the meet- ship. Eventually, they added, the . ing. Included hi the new plan are IF'C should assume the responsi- . an \open rushing\ period and a bility of setting scholarship regu- , shortened formal rushing period .. lations and enforcing them. The Alumni Workshop recommended g'l'oup should eventually be re- The Social Committee Work-· that Homecoming should be plan- sponsible for making and enforc- ·shop. is p1•esently forming a list ned around the alumni, and alum- ing rules for social conduct. of good bands that might be used. ni drives should be kept to a (Continued from Page 1) The Rushing Chairmen Work-: by fraternities on party weekends. minimum. shop praised the ·· IFC for the Other suggestions were a cooper- rushing book distributed to fresh- ative liquor buying agency and an The Stewards Workshop pr?;is- b t · dd d h t \t all-col'ege-weekend, I'n w·h1'ch the ed the success of the IFC Pur- men, . u 1t a. · e t a a comm1 - · A · t' d. t h ld · t' t th ·.'college wou·ld sponsor the enter- chasmg ssocm ron, an men- ee s ou mves Iga e e con- FC ld b tents of the book to assure its tainment for one evening. tioned that the I P A wou uy validity. Concerning deferred and . The Scholarship Workshop sug- more types of food in the future. immediate rushing, and the effect gested that there should be no Lawton Morrison, President of of a possible caJendar change on minimum index for pledging. In the Student Council, ended the rushing, the Workshop decided addition, they recommended that meeting with a S\.lggestioii that that the present system should the IFC should support the Col- the IFC should try to do more by be maintained, and when change lege's putting four fraternities on assuming some of the function's is necessary it should be mad~- nrobation in an effort to empha- now carried out by the Coi:le:t.e.~ BRA I F Vol. 93 (Hoc J Bal1 Phil< ·~~preme Cc let each ; problem. • ('!· ·~.io:-~f~d:~ he attack· · \illogical : ' ions. Its 1 ling will l1 J the parocl · cause it h . ,,Americans ,1· \Anythi: strengthen system of : : 11 ,to introdw · ness amon habits an( set for lif1 Hook ac . 'ial school : but regar< and demo' was the p1 ' \helped to ' f he said. 1 1 , Decisio Hook ! Court's vi1 l stitutions. on the exi: ing and a were true J in the wh ing on sta ically inc< of the firs 1 system in •izenship a to honor! Describi Iar·ist and •·'there are tions of t tion of c the \uncoe .1reading\ i has not y ment pay chaplains t exemption from taxa I \ ••• I . the case dangerouE <>between c ing imme< process o: persuasi01 11 ,nity (and tion of th .religion h to seek r€ a democr ' · .. l.'be keeper ence beca1 people is . court.\ ;tt - Progress Is Ovr 111osf lmpor1<1nf l?oduct . GENERAL. ELECTRic I Tbes ·1 ~'Ansi I The i\1 their debt ·I ~Nott Mer tion The ' vember 2: \ will run r . 1~ 'NovembeJ i The pl: !1 on Jewisl: l duced in , _.the w01:I4 · superst1t1 is concer , the dead . 1 the bodie: '*write po.r commum1 i tween re~ 1 al world. 1 ·:. Cast i · Alread~ .l ments f01 Beckel'lm Clinton, · '~Dubansk~ Chaim G Katz,Ma1 Joel Loe tGeorge P William Michael Iiams. :t. Rabbi In con Rabbi L York Cit \· convocati ber 12 1 playWritE written J \'mud and also did The Dyb (Co

4, 1963 of scholar- ey added, the the responsi- regu- them. The recommended be plan- and alum- kept to a pr;;tis- he IFC Pur- and men- would buy the future. President of I, ended the that da more by function·s Col:lete.~ 1 •. !l._:.r i: BRADBURY'S BOOK Page 3 Vol. 93 -. No. 4 I(' Founded at Union College zn 1877 SCHENECTADYP N. Y., F.RIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1963 MILLER INTERVIEW Page 4 PRICE 15 CENTS iHomecoming Festivities Feature Football Game!l Fraternity Parties GarnetOpposei U. of R.Eleven\. Alumni Visit Hallowed Sod By Paul Sherwin The return of alumni to the campus on October 11, 12 and 13 marks the arrival of Homecoming Weekend. All alumni are invited to par- ticipate in the activities I scheduled, which include the I traditional football game, I . fraternity homecomings and numerous other events. The aim of the Homecoming An incident at the Homecoming football game last year. Fans are urged to hold their thirst in check until post game cocktail parties. Fred Maute Elected; Odetta To Sing Here To Evaluate At a recent discussion of the carrent calendm· controversy, the Student Council decided that the debate would provide an excellent ;opportunity for a useful cur- riculum evaluation. A subcommit- tee for Curriculum Evaluation of the Student Life Committee was established at the council's first meeting, October 1, to consider the matter. John Beckerman, chairman of the committee, stated that his group has three major obj~ctives; to allow the students to criticize the val:'ious curricula, to provide the students with an opportunity to express honestly and anony- mously their criticisms of the faculty, with a provision that the faculty have an opportunity to receive student criticism con- fidentially, and finally to study general topics in the field of edu- cation which are currently of in- terest to the college community. Tentative topics for study in- clude present goals which Union uses in education, current educa· tional trends among other col· leges, and the mandatory retire- ment rule. Committee, headed by Ber- tram Napear '50, is to pro- vide a varied program that will appeal to both the alumni and their families. Festivities for the alumni will begin Friday with meetings of the Admission School for Area Rep- resentatives, several committees of the Alumni Council, and the Civil Engineering Alumni Confer- ence, followed by a dinner for these groups at Hale House. The evening will be capped by a re- ception at the home of Professor Ketz in honor of the Area Ad- missions Representatives and the C. E. Conference. Alumni to Visit Classes On Saturday morning, the alumni will be welcomed to attend classes and at 12:00 noon a buffet luncheon will be served at Hale House. The Rathskeller will be open at 11:3() and afford alumni with a place to reminisce with former classmates over a friendly glass of beer. Tours of the cam- pus will originate at Hale House everY: half-hour dul'ing Saturday mormng. Union Hosts to Rochester in Grid Clash Perhaps the highlight of home- ( Continued on Page 6) Phi Ep Earns Scholastic Prize The. Nationa} Interfraternity Council has des1gnated the Union College chapter of Phi Epsilon Pi as a Summa Cum Laude fra- te1'nity. Summa Cum Laude titles are awarded once a year to those chapters of national fraternities in any college that have achieved average grades of 30% or more apove the undergraduate men's average for their particular schools. This is the second time that Phi Epsilon Pi has been awarded this honor. It was first won for the 1960-1961 school year. According to the National Interfraternity Council ·Scholar- ship Report. \Few chapters at- tain this superior mark. In 1960- 61 out of 2,908 chapters tabu- lated, there were only five, and in 1961-62, out of 3,008 chapters, only eight.\ Phi Epsilon Pi had an index of 2.906 which was 31.41% over the all men's aver- Lowen Suggests Change age for Union of 2.405. Concerning a proposal that Phi Eps Highly Motivated the student criticism be expressed The president of Phi Epsilon in debate, Professor Walter Pi, Mark Dopkin, said that the Lowen of the engineering de- fraternity was \very pleased\ partment pointed out that joint with their success. He attributed debate might defeat the whole the level of achievement of the purpose of the committee, as the members to \high motivation.\ presence of faculty members He stated that undergraduate ed- might inhibit the students f 1 ·om ucatioi::t is important to the stu- expressing their true feelings. dents at the fraterniy largely be- According to Beckerman, the plan cause it forms a basis for their now calls for a committee of graduate study. Most brothers of seniors majoring in each depart- the fraternity go on to gvaduate ment to devise their own cur- school. Last year one hund1·ed riculum, including course material per cent of the seniors planned and requirements for a major to continued school at more ad· for their department. This cur- vanced levels. Concerning those l'icul.um will then be submitted· who do not continue their educa- to the department for evaluation. tjon after college, Dopkin stated Sul·vey forms to be d·rafted co- • that \interest must be stimulated by the undergraduate courses\ if operatively by the faculty and there is no real need for higher the students will supplement this grades. plan. After each professor has The National Interfraternity evaluated the forms that he has . Council Report also said that \a collected the whole faculty will suitable trophy and wide national meet and discuss their findings. publicity will be given to this (Continued on Page 6) outstanding chapter.\

2 (!lournr Published ·Fridays during the school year by the Student Body ot Union Colle&e, Schenectady, N. Y. No.· ttonaJ Adver:tlslng Representative: National Ad verttslng Service, Inc .. College Publishers Representative, 4~0 ~ladison Ave .. N. Y. c.' Elditorlal Otflce. Old Gym, Union College, Publloat!on Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered In the Sche· nectady Post Office as SecoT]d Class Mall Matter. Subscription l$c a copy; $3 a y~ar delivered anywhPre in the United States. SENIOR BOARD Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: In the September 27th issue of the Concordiensis the campus was informed of the college's recent decision to build an additional housing unit in the area of Achi!Ies Field. The questions of who shall occupy this building and _what will be the layout and arch1tecture of the structure seem to he extremely important in re· g-ard to Union's relations with her seventeen national fraternities. sary social functions with women to take place. Though \Inion com· petes in admissions with schools that have dormi·tories with suite systems and social rules pro- grams that allow women in the buildings at certain hours, we are still asking for what has become standard equipment at least in all the Ivy League Schools. Practical Consideration Friday, October l1, 1963 Friday, C History of Jazz: The Chicago School By Tom Krehbiel Wettling·, Jess Stacy, Muggsy Spanier, Eddie Condon and others. They played,. and' many 'I of them still play music in a style I have v~r:y cl. osely related to the early 1 tering of Dixiel!;nd forms from the south, office of 1 but With a greater emphasis on' n Union C solo work by individual members fo1· this und a more controlled group ! under thE sound in the ensemble passages. · Hug-h A. •r1 Mike Bal DAYID BERENSON '64 .................. I<'R 2-6583 ...................................... Editot• in Chief • lYlOSL dlSCUSSlOll of the fratern- ity quesuon on campus through- out the nation seems to revolve around the black and white argu- IVB;Ns LEI!'LOIUJ '64 ...................... DI 6-989f>.. ............................... Business Manager · lnents totally m 1avor or tota1ly HIM UN so so '64 ................................ vi 6-9848 ................................... :r.lanaging Edt tor o_pposeu to these mstitutions. 1 Certain practical considerations are necessary in our unique sit- uation .. If Union were to provide a senior dormitory, the fraternity system would be seriously weak- ened through lack of income and occupants. I personally feel that if Union were to support ten to twelve houses and construct con- fortable residence halls in place of some of the antiquated fra- ternity building-s now on campus Union would be stronger as ~ coHege. The frater.nities would be mo1'e selective (hopefully on an objective basis) and thus able to exist as a strong unified group, tmd the independent personality would find Union a satisfactory en-vironment which offered him a more equal share of the college social life. The college might also increase the enrollment to insme the solvency of the present num- ber of fraternities, allowing the seniors to live a more stimulating and \independent\ existence in \Yhich the student life commit- tee of the board of trustees would be hard pressed to find just ,cause to turn down requests· such liberalized social regula: tions would be stimulating and exciting experience for many of us. Meals and some social func• ~ions ~~uld be still handled by fratermtles, but the happy bur- den of the decision as to how he would best spend his time would be up to the individual student to make. \Jazz started in New Orleans and went up the river to Chi- cago.\ The foregoing sentence is perhaps one of the most comomn statements made whenever a his- tory . of jazz is attempted. It is greatly oversimplified, and be- cause of this it is also somewhat misleacling. But it also contains a fair amount of truth. It is doubt- ful that jazz had any one birth· place and also very doubtful that it \\'as transported up the Missis- sippi likt> a hale of cotton. There is no question, however, of the fact that New Orleans was one of the important early jazz cen- Another Form of appro: Many of these men went on to who will ROBERT KRAMER '65 ................................................................................ .News Editor RICHARD ERDOES '65 ............................................................................. Sports E<!itor LARRY HOROWITZ '65 ........................................................................... Feature Editor WILLIAM T. WINNE '34 .................................................................................... Advisor suonut that here at Union .ll'a- temnws <10 11ave a place 1 but not necessanly a dommant place. We accepL at least WU freshmen each ;year wno are totaUy capable of uemg happy, self-assured inde- penoents. 1¥1any ot these boys ''As You So~ • • • JOlll _uatermtJes as a practical '!Jt solut10n to tne soCial proo1ems of lite at Union. 'lhey aren't afra1ct or bear1ng cne name '\J.'urKey\ but they are unwilling to hve in It is nearly a year since Union College and the rest of the world stopped whatever they were doing to worry over the Cuban missile crisis. Although, in retrospect, the only damage we can remember is a Union professor fleeing to Australia, the situation was indeed dangerous, the world probably closer to nuclear war than at any time in _hist?ry. For this reason, it is heartening to note the puttmg mto effect of the nuclear test ban and the announcement of a wheat deal between the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. this week. Although relations between the two countries will undoubt- edly get notably cooler in the near future, we do not be- lieve that they will ever deteriorate to the state they were last year. One positive feature about the two recent deals is that even if the Cold War returns to the intensity of a few years ago we have not lost much by either deal. Accord- ing to many eminent scientists, it is extremely doubtful whether the United States can make any more break- throughs by continuing nuclear testing. We do not jeop- ardize our safety by agreeing to a treaty as limited as the one we signed. The same is true of the wheat transaction. The American grain surplus is lessened, and the balance of payments problem is improved. We need not even con- sider the fact that West German mills are presently buy- ing wheat in the United States and are milling it to sell as flour to the Communist bloc. The recent events make more disappointing the be- havior of Senator Goldwater and particularly of Mr. Nixon. Their criticisms are becoming less those of constructive conservatives and more those o:f negative obstructionists. We realize that Russia has not shown any behavior that allows us to trust her to any degree. However, the two gentlemen should realize that it is possible to negotiate with Russia to obtain enforceable agreements acceptable by both sides. The Knot Mentorial the spartan sm·rounctwgs of the presem aorm1tories. 1·nese men ure orten very valuable to the college uecause they continue to put more errort into college ac- LlVlties t11an rraternity affairs. Interest Lost Even as the other two thirds of a. given class progresses through Umon, a large proportion of tuese men begm to lose interest m the house. J:::ly the senior year, tor all mtents and purposes, fra- termtles get very little assistance from their last class. These men are more concerned with their tuture, their thesis, and a group of fr1encts which they have made throughout theil: years at Union regaraless of fraternity differ- ences. Activities, athletics and s~llar academic friendships are often the common factor in 1riendships among seniors. They live on the fringes of their fra- ternities m many cases. Bowdoin College, a school simi- lar in many ways to Union, has recently evolved a pl'ogram which will satisfy to a great degree the more mature demands of older students. Their proposal for a senior center, an idea judged creative enough to earn a ~2,500,000 grant !rom the Ford Foundation, would allow all members of the senior c,ass to live and dine in a mod- etn dormitory complete with study rooms c,ustered around a l!vinj.; l'oom for social and edu- cational functions. Equally im- portant in the Bowdoin plan is a system of senior seminars. There men will take a course in divisions other than their major division. The seminar will not be an honors program but a study cutting across the lines of tradi~ tiona! disciplines. An already es- tablished honors program will be reemphasized also. Even at Amherst College, famed for its large and stately fraternity houses, new modern (not of stucco but of glass and steel) dorms have been con- structed for juniors and seniors l'egardless of their present sit- uations. These dorms at Bowdoin and Amherst have exceptionally comfortable private social rooms. Inherent in the architectural planning of these buildings was a philosophy of student life that would allow healthy and neces- Victor Fazio, '65 To the Editor of Co1tcordiensis: May I humbly recommend that the name of your fine paper be changed to the 'Weekly Journal.' Those of you who are scholars of history are aware that such was named the tabloid edited by John Peter Zenger. I'm sure you are cognizant of the fact that Mr. Zenger was tried and event- ual-ly acquitted by the British for publishing articles which were offensive to contemporary society. The only doubt which lurks in my mind is whether you will be acquitted. Absolutely Offensive The article \Virginia's Herit- age\ by Roland Ciaranello which appeared under your mastnead last week is not only offensive to contemporary society; it is offansive to the principles of virtually every society which has preceded oms. I can <>nly hope that it will be offensive to those of the future also, Language such as was used in the article i:;; not only unnecessary as a means of expression, but is unnecessary in any context. The fact that language of this nature is heard on a College campus is something which shouJct be hidden, not advertised. I don't think that words of this type \:\ould appear in a literary 11wgazme wherein poetic license is t11e excuse given fo1· total lack of censorship. Gentlemen: you do NOT have poetic license; your (Continued on Page 3) Ca1npus Briefs OCTOBER 11 and no ion of the fact '.=' ,., t h a t Chicago also became a center of jazz activity soon af- terwards, King Oliver's Band with Louis Armstrong was one of the first jazz bands to play in Chicago and was soon i' o ll o w e d by work in New York, thus starting I concerts I an~ther ch~pter of jazz history j'.;. <:oncerts which contmues on to the pres- 1 clubs of ent. But Chicago carries on too. Vassm:. : Today there is another group of and S1mr young and not so young music- There ians making music in Chicago f 1 ,. the numl with a feeling and a sound which : be given is in many ways peculiar to that 11 city. Good examples of these men ~~ g are the MJT+3, whose members' ., are playing in various other groups now, Ira Sullivan, Paul 1 Serrano, Eddie Higgins, and · others. There is in most instances J v 1723 ' d fi bl f I' ''··~! an m e .-na e ee mg, an intangi- 1· S'l ble something which gives their 35c pe 1 many playing a different face from that i Eventually a musi<'al tradition of New. York musicians. It may ,I 45c per grew up in Chicago itself· a tra- be due. m part to their emphasis •1;1''~ clition which in some w~ys has on solo work aided by a well con- · ~ontinued to the present day. Jazz structed group sound which was m Chicago was strictly a night so evident in the old days. In any 1 Be FREE ( different type of audience and and has been in the past, a very '---- life music. The parades and fu- case, Chicago musicians have a 1 :., n~rals were things of the past. A sound and a feeling which is now j 8 most iJ?portant a different type fresh breath of air in jazz, ---- of .musicians were attracted. The Special Reeords ' .( Chwago era became a period for / the solo virtuoso. Louis Arm- On~ of the very best examples strong set the example and he of old Chicago Style Jazz may was soon followed by Earl Hines. be found on a Harmony record, Jimmy Noone and others. This is Columbia's $1.98 label. It is titled \ : 11 • n<:t the image which comes to Bud Freeman's All Star Jazz, and ~ mmd when one mentions \Chi- it is just that. In my opinion it cago Style\ however. The contri- is one of the great jazz records of butions of Armstrong, et al, were all times, and at its going price • ·'!: too general to be identified with it ~s more than a bargain. Verve's ~ one city or with one specific style. Chicago aud All That Jazz Lp is Today Chicago is firmly associ- a more recent recording by mem- , ated with the Austin High Gang hers of the Austin High Gang .. and their associates. and others. It was recorded from ' · a recent television show by the Chicago Style Developed same name. New Chicago Style The boys from Austin High is well represented on reaords, School-Jimmy McPartland, Bud too. The MJT+3 and Eddie Rig- ·, · ~ Freeman, Dave Tough, and Frank gins have good LPs on Vee lay; Teschemacher among them-were the Higgins date also features very attracted to jazz and more Paul Serrano's best recorded or less spontaneously formed a trumpet work. The Art Farmer- band, and we could probably say Benny Golson Jazztet also had, Chicago Style Jazz started then to these ears at least, a decidedly and there. Certainly the Austin Chicago sound; and they have a High Gang didn't do everything number of recordings on Argo .. by themselves; they met and and Mercury LPs all of which are · \ mingled with other youngsters quite good. Bill Henderson, a fine from the area such as Pee Wee vocalist in his own l'ight, is given Russell, Gene Krupa, George (Continued on Page 3) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· ~ EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN FILMS! HELD OVER! 2nd Big Week! Shown At 6:30-8:30-1 0:30 Every ,;ln,credible Scene Is Real! \Women of the World\ IN TECH NICOLOR -· RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS ' t ] This year Union students a1·e missing one of the vital parts of their education: the Bailey Hall Bulletin Board. For aesthetic reasons it was removed last spring. The front of Bailey Hall may now look a little better, but stu- dents and faculty have to go through the day without a chuckle from our colleague the Knot and without finding out who wants a ride where this weekend. It would be a great service to the entire campus if the college would erect a new bulletin board facing Bailey Hall from across the road next to the tennis courts. There could be no seri- ous aesthetic objections then. Perhaps the college could even stucco it. Union College will welcome re- turning alumni with a variety of activities scheduled for Friday and Saturday. discussion by Sandra Taylor a local high school student ~ho visited Colombia, South America this summer on a fellowship. The meeting will be conducted in Spanish. . l (t TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN • OCTOBER 17 APE~ MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 ''To Err Is H '' There will be an Alumni Ad- missions School on Friday after- noon and Saturday morning. At the same time the Department of Civil Engineering has scheduled a conference at which seven alumni of the college will speak on variou~ topics of professional interest. _Marine Capt.ain G. W. Ry- h~l!-ych, SelectiOn Officer, will V)sit the campus on Thursday be- tween the hours of 10:00 A.M. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ and 2:00 P.M. He will discuss the. f uman ••• . and the Concordy editorial staff is surely human. Our readers found that out when they read a certain article in last week's issue that is causing a large amotmt of dis- cussion on campus. The article was originally written dur- ing the summer when the author had no thought of how it would appear in a newspaper. It was neither his inten- tion nor the intention of the Editor-in-Chief for the article to appear in the form it did, but due to a proofreading mis- take the unexpurgated form was published. We apologize to any readers we may have offended and are confident a similar mistake will not appear again. While there is a definite literary place for such language, there is no con- ceivable journalistic reason for publishing the article as printed. The Union College Alumni Council has its fall Executive Committee meeting Friday eve- ning and a general meeting Sat- urday morning, Two athletic events have been scheduled on Saturday: a fresh- man soccer game against Bard College at noon and a varsity football game against the Uni- ·versity of Rochester at 1:30 P.M. Following the football game there will be a get-together for Union and Rochester alumni in Hale House. OCTOBER 16 The Hispanic Society will meet at 8:15 P.M. Wednesday in Silli· man Hall. The Society, organized primarily for town people, has extended an invitation to any in- terested College students. Fea- tured at the meeting will be a Marine Trah1ing Program avail- able_ to college students, and in- terview those students interested, OCTOBER 18 .A C?~st Guard representative will VISit the campus between 2:po ~nd 4:00 P.M. Friday. He will discuss the opportunities for a college student in the Coast Guard. OCTOBER 18 \Summerskin directed by Leopolda Terro Nilsson, will be shown at 7:00 and 9:00P.M. Fri- ~lay in E~ 22. The director creates !nterest m an Argentine girl who IS urg·ed by her grandmother to e~ter a clandestine relationship With a wealthy young man doomed to die of a lung disease. The young beauty is stirred to sympathy when the young man woos and wins her. For three· ~1 Generations ••• - \~ Those Who Know .. ·~ Have been recommending - Maurice B. GfitubiiFt' & SOiis · 11 8 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY

ber 11 , 1963 Friday, October 1 1, 1963 3 Glee Club Presents 1 Letters. • • Bradbury's Book Is Reviewed acy, Muggsy and d, and many in a style to the early the south, emphasis on members group passages. went on to thus starting jazz history to the pres- (Continued from Page 2) J . • t p g s • function is to report the I).ews . _OlD .. ro . ram erteS and to express the policies of the editorial board and the campus in general. If the aforementioned By Arnold Berkowitz \I have a song to sing 0! Sing me your song· 0 !\ news and opinions- must be de- scribed in such a manner, you had best limit your circulation severely. It might be prudent to I have for my chorus the clat- Wilson called for the support or' bear in mind that the 'Concordy' tering of typewriter keys in the the college community at these is sent to Trustees, Alumni, sub- office of the \Concordiensis.\ The e\'ents. The first scheduled con- frosh, and parents, as well as the Union College commum.ity has cert is for December 15 at Union regular student body. Don't you 1'o1· this purl!ose the glee club, I with Russell Sage. think ·we might be over-stressing under the g.ll;1dance of Professor The type of program to be fea- our image as a \well-balanced\ Hugh A. Wilson, and manager tured at these concerts are more co liege 1 Mike Baker. The group consists In the men's chorus tradition than I trust that you will alter your · of app!-'oximately fifty me~bers, in the straight glee club tradition. publication policies in the near who w1U p_erform about th1rteen These wGrks are expected to pre-. future, for sholild you not, I fear conceits tlu~ ye.ar. Most of these sent a g· 1 ,eater challenge to the that there l).re not many who wish <:encerts Wlll mclude the glee glee club hut should not be dif- to be considered :vour \brothers clubs of such gkls' colleges as ficu!t for' the listening audience. under the laws of Minerva.\ Vassar, Skidmore, Russell Sage Included in the programs are Michael Gero '64 and Simll!-ons. . , Brahms' \Song of Destiny,\ on· too. group of music- in Chicago sound which to that of these men members ' other Paul and instances an intangi- There IS a g:e.at mc:t:ease m Faure's \Requiem Bruckner's · the number of JOlllt concerts to \Mass in E Minor \ Purcell's · To the Editor of Concordiensis: be given at Union College, and. \D 1 \do and Aeneas,\ a~d the mod- gives their from that It may . eir emphasis •l;~·~ a well con- · which was ~ays. In any 1 1ans have a ' .. , is now, j past, a very jazz, 1 ! examples / e Jazz may record, 1. It is titled , :~ Jazz, and ' opinion it records of going price • a Verve's Jazz Lp is ng by mem- High Gang .. from ' how by the Style In newspaper reporting there .==============. ern \Love? Nay. Nay.\ by Piket. is, I suppose, a certain yirtue in g Wilson pointed out that a good calling a spade a spade. There DR. JOHN M. BRADBURY 8 V V LANES · chorus need not be made up of is no doubt, however, that the great singers. Rather the group· writer of the article Virginia's rnust be intelligent and willing Heritage (Oct. 4, 1963) and the 1723 Van Vranken Ave. . to follow the directions of the editor of the Concordiensis have conductor. The glee club has two trumped their own ace of spades. two-hour rehearsals a week, with It should be obvious to anyone extras if they become necessary. ever alive that constant and rep- STUDENT RATES 35c per game up till 6 P.l\1. Weekdays . While the glee club is filled This article was written by Julian Olf, who is presently Edi- tor of the Idol. A senior English major, Mr. Olf is a Nott Scholar and a member of the Delphic Society. 45c per game after 6 P.M. and Weekends for this semster there should be etitious use of such vulgarisms a few positions open the next. by soldiers, sailors, fraternity Above desire, an individual must men, factory workers and other Krehbiel Bar On Premises demonstrate an ability to carry segments of the male popula- a tune, with a possibility of de- tion has completely emptied these FREE SHOES (save 25c) to 1 veloping a sense of pitch. Wilson phrases of substantive mea11ing. (Continued from Page 2) College Students 8 ··I· emphasizes t.hes.e qualitie.s, rather Consequently the direct quotation 8 of such common expressions (pun '---------------'· than past smgmg expenence. intended), far from documenting the vehemence of racial intoler- a great deal of sympathetic sup- port from various Chicago style groups on his Vee Jay LP #1015. In fact this recording has some of the best Chicago sounds to be recorded recently. ance or the degradation of \poor white trash,\ comments solely and most adversely upon the lack of refinement, dignity, good taste and, indeed, intelligence of the author of the article and his su- perior, the editor of this news- paper. In summation, the Windy City has had a long and eventful his- tory of contributions to jazz. To- day New York is the number one jazz town, but Chicago continues to turn out more than its share of fine musicians. Dig them, you will. This example of irresponsibil- ity can only impair the efforts of mature campus leaders toward winning for the student body a i By Jommg CARE's Food Cru- larger voice in college affairs. 1 sade to send 7.500,000 packages I think you owe us readers an I across the world, at $1 per pack- apology. : age, Americans will help f~ed William H. Oldenbrook 1 2,6,000,000 hungry people durmg 1 f1cal 1962-63. Doctor of Profane Letters · ,, ,, * RJlJNAISSANCE IN THE SOUTH: A CRITICAL IDSTORY OF THE LITERATURE, 1920-1960 :By John M. B1·adbm·y The University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill. $5.00 by Julian Olf The term South cenjures up a variety of vital associations to his- torians, economists, sociologists, and contemporary newspapet· read- en;. In view of the current racial crisis, a kind -of renaissance appears most imminent to the observing wodd. The flurry of historic, eco- nomic, and mcial interest that has continued to focus itself on the South has also had its toll on the \lettered world.\ Bradbur;y Writes History John M. Bradbury has undertaken to .explain the prolonged cre- ative activity that has come from the South in the past forty years. His treatise could only be a history; a discussion seeking to integrate such dive1·se wrJters as Katherine Ann Porter, William Faulkner, Carson McCullers, and Thomas Wolfe with a geographic locale, must ·necessarily dig deeply beneath the techniques and peculiarities of the individual authors; it must examine the soil and cJ.imate from which .they grew. Assuming the task of a literary historian, Bradbury was con- . fronted by an enormous mass of material. Realizing that one mu::;t, as a historian, establish certain arbitl'ary categories, Bradbury chose to examine the traditionalistic and realistic aspects of Southern literature. War Was Significant The period of Bradbury's study extends from the First World War to -1960. The advent of the War was an \awakening\ for the American. For the southerner, characteristic provincial prejudices were challeng·ed. \Personal values had been shaken and their home towns, farms, and jobs had been largely transformed.\ New indust1·y (stepped up by the demands of the ·war) played its part in the re- orientation that was to befall the southerner. It was out of this t()pical flux that the new traditionalist and the social realist grew. Writers such as Tate, Gordon, Warren, and Cleanth Brooks display the \new tradition\; in their analysis \aesthetically conceived and executed fiction involves certain basic structural and textural ele- ments in some proportion: a carefully detailed or 'naturalistic' sur- face, irony, symbolism\ and a consistent handling of the like. For this new tradition of the Southern novel and short story, Bradbury adopts the term \symbolic naturalism\ (originated by Allen Tate and his wife, Caroline Gordon), Although this mode has its roots in the \typically Southern heritage,\ we begin, with the writings of Katherine Anne Porter, to see a rejection of this heritage. Liberals Were Sympathetic A less influential group-though considerably larger in number- was found among the liberal, or self-critical writers. It was here that the clearest historical development occurred. The sharecropper, the Negro field hand, the laborer, and the social patterns of small-town life, were more closely and sympathetically examined by these writ- ers. The writers that appear in this group include Kelley, Glasgow, Robet'ts, Scarborough, Faulkner, and Caldwell. Focus On Novel on reaords, Eddie Hig- ·. . ~ Vee .!ay; features (h.c. w. h. o.) ] Every contributor to GARB's The Department of Modern Vul- 1 Food Crusade gets a t·eceipt that gar Tongues . shows the countries whose people From this \awakening Bradbury carries us through the mush- room-development of the many elements which comprise the Southern Literary Renaissance. In his discussions and analyses, Bradbu1·y de- votes most of his critical skills to the novel, although the short story, poetry and drama are also followed through the forty year period. Brief but careful critical analyses are given to the principle works of the many authors who played a significant role in the new develop- ments. He pays little attention to \the popular entertainers, the light humorists, and the slick purveyors of romance, though (during this period) all of these abound.\ He restores many authors (such as Isa Glenn, Frances Newman, Anne Winslow, and Edwin Granberry) whom he feels that critics have unjustly neglected. recorded Farmer- also had, a decidedly have a on Argo .. / which are ' \ a fine is given 3) , I ~ I! '~ J ' t -· .1, ~ • 7-1112 ·r- i t) ~~ Q. ' ( ' AUTHORITY! Our Deansgate Suits for Fall speak with a most authoritative fashion voice ... in their patterns, colors, and natural shoulder model! $6 9.50 P.S.-Cancel my subscription I will he helped. Midtown Barber Shop 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 Wally's Diner • Home Mode Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd • Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. VAH CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street RECORDS JAZZ POPS MUSIC Student Discounts ClASSICS Studies Effects Bradbury, a native of Kentucky, makes interesting observations about the southern personality and its peculiarities. His thesis in- cludes the effect that the economic depression had on the South; the effect of non-southerners (such as Hemingway) on Southern writers; the advent of the Negro writer and the \Negro-view\ novel; the traditional preoccupation with themes of innocence and guilt and the individual's relation to his heritag~; a proposed explanation for the lack of existential concem among the southern. writers. Among his many observations Bradbury takes a welcome swipe at the Amer- .ican theatre which, \concentrated as it is in a single city and so largely subject to the critical judgment of seven men, has long offered the most precarious of careers to our c1·eative talents.\ Disagrees With Critics In concluding, Bradbury takes e:xception with those critics whose explanation for the South's literary vitality only emphasizes \the South's continuing sense of the past, its agrarian tradition, and its lingering heritage of family solidarity ... A Wolfe burgeoned sub- stantially without these fertilizing clements, and a considerable num- ber of the modern genl'ration ignore or repudiate them.\ \Every area has sufficient talent latent within it to produce a renaissance in almost any field of human endeavor. It requires only a special concentration of stimuli to focus it in a given direction.\ Bradbury looks to the reassessment of values brought about by the historic, economic, and social realities of the past forty years as the foremost consideration in endeavoi'ing to explain the literary renais- sance in the South • f\~~;r.~.i!~~~t~:~&~\:f~~~iW;lm~m~~Mm::~~~;?.~:M~~~:r,{~U~?f:~:::£~:~~=~i§$~~~~~:~~~:f:t.~t~W~~@~~~i~~~:;:;:f.:: 'I~ . < ' . ~~ Dave's $quire $hop Now featuring the WOOL HERRINGBONE SPORT COAT at in four rich fall colors. Sizes a4 to 46 Regulari, Shorts, Longs, 326 STATE ST Daily to 5:30 . · · I Tues. & Thur. 'til 9 TEL. 377·3061

4 Integration Crisis: View To The Future Mike Miller Discusses New LF. C. Progrant Friday, October· 11, 1963 An Evaluation: Honors In Retrospect By Richard Sifton By Roland Ciaranello By Robert S. Hoffman This article concludes the series I sufficient, a continuation of this Last week, Concordiensis P 1 'e I nounced which would allow · · h s th 1 · · t T d G sented an. interview. with Law- . seniors to live off c. ampus if they Last year several departments tists, such as the Union Honor on integratiOn m t e ou . JOurne_y m o. ennessee, an · eor-' · •t t d h · t l t h th h gia will probably convince the ton Morrison, Prestdent of the. could not find housmg on campus .. 'mstJ u e onm·s programs m s uc en ·s ave e necessary tee - . Now that the summer has ~un ardent crusader. By the time he Student C0uncil. This week, Mi- Miller sees no reason to extend order to provide an opportunity nical skHls, or foreisight to con- tts gamut, and we a_re entering has arrived in Alabama and Mis- chael Miller, President of the this policy to sophomores and for superior students to go be- duct major research; but they aut!lmn, perhaps a httle proph- sippi, where the hatred is both Interfraternity Com1cil has given juniors, although he 1 •ealizes yond the limitations of the are capable, however, of pursuing e~Y:mg, b~sed on. thes~ events to overt and intensified, one begins his views on issues of importance that financial pressures may play courses regularly offered by those a program which would .give yo.h1ch I \\US a witness, v.:ould _be to sense the enormity of the fGrc- for presentation to the student a large nart in many students' departments. In retrospect, these them some insight into the na- m order .. The~e pr?p~es1es. Will, es against change and feels the body. desires to Jiye away from the programs were successful, and ture of pure research, the tech~ no ?oubt, mcu1 the md1gnatwn of full impact of futility. Miller, a Division II major, roHege. He sees no necessity for . wa!'l·ant both maintenance and niques involved, and the perspec- varJous \crusaders\ and \cause- is President of Chi Psi Lodge and the constmction of new dormi- expansion. Both the faculty ami tive of the research scientist. An followers,\ but I remind these Hope and Futility Treasurer of the Class of 1964. tories on the campus, particularly the students concerned indicated acquaintance with &pplication of idealists that the time for nebul- Even the Negro will admit this He is also head of the Dutch because there .are other needs satisfaction with the resttlts of the \scientific method\ is essen- ous and undefined causes is long truth, but to him any change, Pipers. His other activities in- which are of more immediate im- the experimental first year. tial to the future scientist, and past. It is time \·e looked at con- however small, so .tong as it is elude being Chairman of Parents' portance to the college. . Therefore, J.ittle modification of the biology department will con- ditions as they are, and not as progressive, makes today a bit Weekend and a member of the What Is Needed existing programs will be made. tinue to provide the opportunity we might, in our idle moments, more endurable than yesterday. Delphic Society. Biology Increases Efficiency for such an acquaintance through \\!. sh them to be. When he says \I ha\e a dream \ One good exam-nle of these its hono1·s progra.ms. ' ' ' He considers the Tnterfratern- · .... The Biology Department, which· Future Is Bleak he says it knowing full well that ity Council to be· the g· overning· needs is the condition of the li- offered programs to sonhomores, Dept. Is Pleased D · h b · d ·this dream may never be realized brary MI\IIer 1\s appreci\ati\ve of f' Th H\ esp1te t e progress emg rna e body of the fraternity system. · · juniors, and seniors, intendR ac- e I story Department is also in integration in the South the in his lifetime. Many of us share Ideally, he would like to see the the quality of the library staff cording to Prof. Rappaport to pleased with the results of i~ · k H d the same dream-whatever the and of its willingness to a1\d future remams blea . et·e an IFC as both a legislative and an · continue \to encourage the par- first program. Honors has been there the bas- motives for our joining this move- executive body, establishing and students, but finds research ma- ticipating students t0 work on expanded to include sophomores, tion of segre- . ment. We profess a belief in the enforcing rules of conduct. One terial and periodicals quite in- some problems of their own but will sti:ll remain highly selec• gation is crum- essential right of 'freedom for all.' of the results of the recent Work- adequate in many areas. choosing, with as little super- tive. It now has seven partici- bling, but fresh But to tell the segregationist shop meetings was a pro.posai As to the recently proposed Yision as possible.\ The only im- pants. The only change in format f t about the Negro who shed his calendar changes Miller feels rein orceme n s blood on the beaches of Europe for a judicial body which, operat- · ' portant change will invo:ve the ·involves replacement of study of are being added and in the Pacific and who died ing separately from the JFC, that the Davidson plan is still requisitioning- of equipment. In 'problems of American History daily. Atlanta defendJ'ng hi's coun.tl'Y as di'd· many would review infractions brought fthe 1 btehst. Likfe Morrison, hMill~r the past confusion has resulted with reading of classical histori- . t rates b f . d k d ee s at pro essors are t e pr1- f' th 1 k f · 1 ]' · th · · In e g of ou.r fatheJ·s or to tell hi·m that e ore 1t an ma e recommen a- d . . fl rom e ac o orgamzation in ca 1terature u'l e JUnior year. f 11 h'l · h 1 mary aca emtc m uence and that· d\ \b · f Th bl · · peace u · y, w I e he, himself, is unAmerican' is to twns to t e co lege as to proper 1 t 1 d h tstri· utwn o equipment, and e pro ems m American His- in Birmingham challenge h·J·s rJ'gh·t to lt've 1 ·n a action. Miller thinks that the a molds a!1Y 1 . ca en dar . c. ange this is being rectified. tory will be covered in the senior I b 'ld d h wou revtta 1ze aca emiC mter- h b h' peop e are m - manner conduc·,.e 1 to .the better'- IFC shoul have andled the re- b h f h T e iology honors program ·course. In t JS way honors stu- f · bombs ' t h 1 h\ bl est at or t e faculty and for o.. d k b .J t \II h b d b 1 mg more· · ment of hi\msei.f and ·hi's followi·ng cen sc o ars 1p pro em. 1 d Th D d \as come un er attac ecause uen s WI · a-ve a roa er ac {- . H d there t1e stu ents. e avi son plan, f h f h d b h t' th d . •· ' ere an ' generations. To tell him this is Union Has Unique Shops although it was the first to be 0 t e nature 0 many of t. e groun Y t e Jme ey un er- as the ·forces of integration gath- to learn the inexorable emotions research projects undertaken. take the study of American his- er momentum, a school is inte- The Workshops, which held proposed officially, seems to be These often dealt with ostensibly tory. 1 which are bound up in his stand, th · fi t t' 1 · a comprom1's b t e th g rated or a lunch-counter no ong- en· rs mee mgs two weem e e wen e ~rivial aspects of the broad fie'ds In a similar attempt to estab- 1 , B t and to realize that he v.'ill not, be- · d 1 M b str 1· ht trt\mest d th Cl k er \restricts its cliente e. · u ago, were conceive ast ay Y a g er an e ar in which the students were work- !ish a foundation for study in the . d cause psychologically he cannot, M\Il Alth h tl 1 n ·t ff d d ed counter-forces are massmg, an change. 1 er. oug o 1er campuses P a s, as 1 a or s a re uc ing, and apparently provided lit- senior year, the English Depart- they possess most of the P<?Wer. have adopted workshop plans, study load during most of the tie useful information. Although ment has decided to continue its The Negro has only occaswnal The Opposition Union's are unique in their gen- year combined with an interim scientists often contend that such policy of \filling in the gaps\ and seldom staunch supporters, If we must crusade, then let us era! format. Miller sees two main period of intensive study. basic research is justifiable on in English and American Liter- even though the press and radio first know our opponents. Let us purposes for the Workshops: to I.F.C. and S.C. to Work Closely the basis of possible future relev- ature in the Junior Honor pro- have united to attack vehemently first reaUze that our aspirations unif;v the fraternity system in a ance, the biology staff need not gram. The participants in this any violation of the 'individual's may end in failure; that we shall cooperative manner and to de- The IFC and the Student Coun- turn to this argument in defense vear's junior honors, under Pro- rights.' Needless to. say, the 'in- fight battles which we cannot fine, discuss, and solve a wide cit, although they are completely of their program. It is unlikely fessor Blodgett, will do intensive dividual' concerned IS not black. win; that progress comes slowly, range of problems. As an ex- separate organizations with dif- that relatively untrained scien- (Continued on Page 6) In Birmingham, as in mo~t of and that defeat is costly; and, ample of the cooperative nature ferent functions, should and must Alabama, Gov. Wallace remams a finally, that we may never see our for the program, Miller cites that work closely together. Miller hero a defender of the cherished dream realized. We cannot deny each of the Workshops operates closed the interview by stating 1 1 rights. Despite any ill1:1sions the Negro his rights; nor can we its own \school\ for the training that, although neither body has which idealists may entertam, he stop the segregationist from de- of newly appointed house officers. lived up to its full potential, will not be deposed; no heaven fending his cause against destruc- If the Workshop program is not definite steps are being taken, sent defender of freedom will tion. That the cause of integra- the ultimate way to solve the af. witnessed by the Workshops stead to his bedside and topple tion is just, does not mean that fraternities' problems, it is, in and by Morrison's 4-divisional him from his pedestal. His exist- it is invincible. At this time in Miller's opinion, an excellent system for the Student Council, ence as a major factor in the our history the forces of prejudice start toward improving the entire to assure better coordination and Southern political scene is a gro- are as strong if not stronger than system. more effective student govern- tesque reality; his presence and the 'forces of the right.' Preju- Miller also gave his opinions ment in the future. viewpoints are an integral compo- dice will not stand aside merely on matters of more general con- ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ nent of his society. He preaches because we have decided to con- cern to the student body, such segregation because segregation quer it; rather it will fight a as the residency situation- Last is a popular cause; it gets him tenacious battle to protect itself. vear a residency policy was an- votes. His followers do not mere- Its cause may not be 'just,' but Iy dislike the Negro; they. ha~e justice does not insure invinci- ~~[gj[gl[gj[gj~[glll.ffii!@~~~~ll!ljg]~lllJig]i him with a vehemence wh1ch 1s bility. Its weapons are strong, its [gJ Sh s • ~ both immutable and lasting. The cause appears equally just to its [gJ aver ervtce I majority of whites in the south followers. If it is to be elimin- I JilJ remain segregationist to the core. ated, it must be done so by a ~ ~ No amount of legislation will al- force which knows its opponents ~ Repairs & Sales on ~ ter their feelings; no amount of as thoroughly, and feels their \\ ii!l persuasion, however severe, will emotions as strongly as they ~ all makes of I have any lasting effect on their themselves do. It remains a bat- ~[gj ; emotions. tie of psychology; no amount of Electric Shavers ii!l Powerful Emotions Involved speech making; no number of ~ What we 1 .n the North too oft- functionless groups, however no- [gj~~ ble their intentions, no quantity ~ Phone FR 4-9741 it~ en fail to realize is til at in dealing of glib-tongued crusaders who are ~~~ ~I with segregation we are dealing t 1 th f ~ h b swep a ong on e current o .., 72411. 2 STATE STREET ~ with an emotion which as e- popularism, can alter or trans- \\ '' ~ come a deeply inculcated way of figure the strength of this reality. I I life. A psychologist, an author-· --------------..l.~\'l:f)ll:;:iiti~~::l- :~:'iiti;:::lffi~lffi:lffi:.::,;;flll~'il~11RF-1:;:· :-:.::~:lffi~llll=lffi:.::~:lffi;::fll1:;·~~::::Jjil:;;:l~~~ ity on prejudice, made a state- • ment which, though extremely harsh, is quite valid. To para- phrase it, he maintained that the only way to get rid of segrega- tion is to destroy the segrega- tionists, or wait until they die. On the surface, it would seem as though he had left himself open to attack on many fronts. But attack is difficult, if not alto- gether impossible; for there nt:;ed be no reason for hatred; no sm- gle plausible exp~anation for !ts existence. But thts does not dis- count its reality, nor does it sim- plify the task of eliminating it. We must realize that we are deal- Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily --· SNACK BAR ON PREMISES ing with a hatred which, to the die- , v T + ,.. , ,.. ., , , , \ , v ,. , 'T , , , \ ., , \ , , ,.. , .. ,.. , • \ v , \ , , , , , ,.. , v \ ,.. .. hard segregationist, is very real and inexorably intense. To those who doubt the truth in these words, I suggest a trip through the backwoods of central Virginia. Even here, where violence seldom flares, evidence of this unswerv- ing hatred abounds. If this is not KNAPP SERVICE LTD. Erie Blvd. & Liberty St. Phone Dl 6a5900 COMPLETE VOLKSWAGON & IMPORTS PARTS AND SERVICE • Moving Oct. 1st, To 1000 State St. UNION INN 517 UNION STREET RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES DRUG SUNDRIES NOTJONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHElENE CELLOPHANE SILVERWARE GLASSWARE DISHES J. NOGEE & SONS Inc. Successor to S •. MO~RIS & SON Established 1888 WHOlESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPE{! BAGS STATIONERY - SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 - 28·34 N. Broadway Scheneclady 5, N. Y. CORDUROY CONTINENTAL PANTS - Tapered legs - Waists 29 - 38 3.98 & 4.98 • 334 State St. We gladly Cash your checks GUARANTEED :BLUES CHASER A call home, Long Distance, is a real picker-upper. For you. For your folks, too. A phone call Is so much warmer than writing. It tells them you care. Rates are lower every evening after 6:00 and all day Sunday, Extra low lor many calls within New York State after 9:00 p.m. ®New York Telephone For Style Quality and Value True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en- gagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, re- flecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ••. a perfect gem of flawless clarity, flne color and meticu. lous modern cut. Authorized Keepsake Jew~ elers may be listed in the Yellow~ Pages. Visit one in your area, and choose from many beauti-; ful styles, each with the name! \Keepsake\ i~ the ring and on· the tag. HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING Please send two new booklets, \How to Plan Your Engagement and Wedding\ and \Choosing Your Diamond Rings,\ both for only 25¢. Also send special offer of beautiful 44 page Bride's Book. Name--------------------------------------------- Address ________ ~-------------------- City Co. State ___ _ KEEPSAKE DIAMOND R.l NG S, SYRACUSE 2, NEW YORK, 13202 l. Friday, 0 1 I; Mic Ho The~ when itt; enter the 4-2 last l in a hai·d The B1 like a 1 HamHtoll after thei t ._. of Ha:t'tv ') teamwot·.H ::;hots ac , I ] i squad ·•e) the Hamt ·.~··,.·. 1 -,, signs of ' fl'ont lin game's E field, and ward R01 ! into the l pass fron the game 3 t ilton aui' 1 at the- fc appeared ~ j fl'ee· SCOl' 1 again toe «, 6 ute later of Gianc fleeted ir i by Simor \ ·c ly jelled : ! man bac' et·al driv1 ~ ' fullbacks Brown, ' 11 ,. goalie J2 ' halftime f ', their lea John Ful ~~·\' a perfec wing Ja, had seen ute befo· • ·:. always e a Hamilt smash, 1 and sent Hamiltor '. ·' • not reco1 a rule w occurran' Rhowed 1 if' _in~th_e __ s_e : .,. Rec Rushing:- J>Iayer Dutton. '\ Hrdlicka, n Hutchins< !l Stevens, I Marshall, I Baker. 11 1 Hitch cocl~ ft Union t1 !1 ~!~ingt:ol · Hitchcocl f Player ll. r Stevens. <McDonalc Onion '\ Opp. I l'layeJ' · : Marshall, Dutton. Hurlbut, Soper, e , !l , \KeRsler ~ Hrdlicka, Hutchins< Scoring: I i Player Marshall, c IJutton. Hutchins' Hrdlicka. Kessler, Union Opp. t1 Punting: Player Hurlbut, Union <J Opp. t *Block e 1<. • \ iii Cl l ~' ' ... I II I

11, 1963 Friday, October 11, 1963 5 IGridders Clash With U. of R. At Homecoming Honor tech- to con- ; but they of pursuing .give the na- the tech~ he perspec- . ..An plication of \ is essen- and will con- through is also of its has been ophomores, selec\ partici- in format study of History histori- year. His- the senior stu- back- under- his- to estab- in the h Depart- its gaps\ Liter- pro- in this nder Pro- intensive 6) g of en- is re- anc;l ticu. II ow~ '. on l ng\ cia! MiddiesDownBooters; Football Statistics Record: 1-1-Unlon 19, St. Lawrence 21; Union 33, Alfred 20. Rushing:-- Player Dutton. hb ......................... . Hrdlicka, hb ........................ . Hutchinson, hb ..................... . Stevens, qb .....•.................... Marshall, hb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... . Baker, ll.b ................. , ......... . Hitchcocl{, qb ....... · · · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · Union totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......... . Opp. totals ......................... . ('antes 25 7 21 11 1 3 2 70 107 l'asslng: Player Att. Hitchcock, qb ........•... 22 Comp. 11 Yds. 182 HO Stevens, qt. .............. 19 •McDonald, qb ............ 1 Union totals . . . . . ...... 42 Opp. totals . , ........... 38 11 1 23 20 4 326 210 I•layPI' caught Marshall, sb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 7 Dutton, hb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 2 Hurlbut, e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 5 Soper, e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . • . 4 'Kensler, hb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 1 l; Hrdlicka. hb ....... , . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 1 Hutchinson. hb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 2 :Set Yards 157 25 54 27 -1 -4 -24 234 356 mwint. 1 (} (} 1 4 'l~Ds 3 1 (} 4 1 Yds. Gained 129 59 44 41 32 9 2 Rcm·!ng: Player •rns Marshall, sb . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 3 Conv. R-P 0 Couv.K z~o FG 0 ( Dutton, hb . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 2 Hutchinson, hb . . . . . .. . . . . 1 Hrdlicka, hb . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Kessler. hb . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 1 Union totals (pts) ....... 48 Opp. totals (pts) .. , ...... 36 0 1 0 0 2 2 0 0 4-2 0 2 3 0 0 1-0 0 0 0 Punting: Player Time Kicked Hurlbut, e . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Yds. lUcked 272 Union totals ......................... 1~ 272 255 G Opp. totals . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 *Blocked kick TimE Cc;nlEI\ Je;wc;IEI\S \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. ( Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian .Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room ·' . OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTI ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P~M.-3 A.M. 02 I ~ ............... ~. ................. ,. ...... +++:666+++++++4+• initiative: If you had the time-you could do the compu- tations which the biggest data processing sys- tems do. I But they do them at electronic speed and without tiring. I It calls for constant initiative to make them work better for us. I You needn't know anything about them to start with. I IBM has an education program for continued training. I Ask your college placement officer for our bro- chures......,and for an appointment when the IBM representative is interviewing on campus. I IBM is an Equal. Opportunity Employer. 1 If you cannot attend the interview, write: I Manager of College Relations, I IBM Corp .. , 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.l MOVE AHEAD: SEE IBM® NOV.l5, 1963 Ti1ne Out The Union College Block U Society, composed of all varsity let- termen, elected officers at an organizational meeting held on October 3. Those elected were Larry McCt·ay, President; Gary Morris, Vice President; Steve Hopkins, Secretary, and Brendan Hutchinson, Treas- urer. McCray stated that the Society will immediately undertake the distribution of .programs at home football games and the re-institu- tion of the Athlete-of-the-Month program. This is one organization which has received much abuse and little consideration in the past few years. This is probably the last oppor- tunity the Block-U will have to renew its worthwhile goals and with ~hei~· new,. capable, and willing_ leadership, it is certainly hoped that t.t wt.ll enJOY the support, especially by its members, that it deserves. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue FeaturinQ: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week LEARN TO BOX!! BE A MASTER OF SELF-DEFENSE. EXPERT I TRAINERS' SECRETS CAN BE YOURS! NO I EQUIPMENT NEEDED. FORM A. CAMPUS BOXING CLUB AMONG YOUR FRIENDS FOR FUN, SELF-CONFIDENCE AND REAL PH¥SI-j CAL FITNESS. COMPLETE BROCHURE AND , USSONS ONE DOLLAR. SEND TO: . PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, l'lempstead, Long Island, New York. FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across ft•om Train Station) Save On Our Own Olde Village Private Label Spirits We Deliver Free FR 4-6846 . NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue ~ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. O.pp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 r ........................................................ . I DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Lega.l Beverages 118 • 120 JAY STREET ~-'-\ ......... \'-'- ............... , •••• ~··.+.•f••·•••*-········••'!\

t r c t t t t t a g b g e c p v il h a \ w tl E ft h 6 Mountebanks (Continued from Page 1) country. The exact topic of his lecture will be given at a future . date. The Mountebanks fall produc- tion will be under the direction of \But how was I to know? I'm only a Freshman.\ Zipp's Barber Shop Complete Barber Service 1 569 Van Vranken Ave. 3 Doors Up From Branch Post Office 20 WASHER'S WASH 25c- DRY 10c NORGE LAUNDROMAT 25 PARK PLACE 1 Bloek West of West College Professor Gifford W. Wingate and ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Professor John B. Girdner. John 1 Mazzota is president of the Mountebanks, in formal existence since 1920. Curriculum (Continued from Page 1) Pilot Project Planned During this semester, a pilot evaluation will be conducted in one department of each division. Based upon the results, the pro- gram will either be expanded to include all of the departments or modified to meet any faculty sug- gestions that might arise. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar Free Parking PIZZA 01 6-9554 1 115 Barrett St. Greet the shirt with an Oxford education by~RROW~ Any scholar will appreciate this new Decton oxford shirt ... the latest graduate to the world of wash-and- wear by ARROW. A blend of 65% Dacron* polyester and 35% cotton ... it outlasts all cotton shirts. From that famous button-down collar to the back button and back pleat, it's University Fashion at its best. Tapered to trim you down, \Sanforized-Plus\ labeled to ensure a lasting fit, Decton oxford comes In white, colors and British stripes. Short sleeves as illustrated only$5.95 •DuPont T.M.. tor its polveater fiber Friday, October 11, 1963 HOLIDAY BILLIARDS 1625 Curry Rd. 1 0 Min. From Campus over Cross Town Spur In Rotterdam Shopping Center • Special Rates 10:30 AM -5:00PM - LADIES PLAY F R E E Acme Barber Shop open 1 0:30 A M - 1 2:00 MIDNIGHT - DAILY 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers -COUPON- Worth SOc While Playing at HOLIDAY BILLIARDS Catering to Union College Students Offer Expires Nov. 15, 1963 Tom Thomsen wanted challenging work He found it at Western Electric T. R. Thomsen, B.S.M.E., University of Nebraska, '58, came to Western Electric for several reasons. Important to him was the fact that our young engi- neers play vital roles right from the start, working on exciting engineering projects in communica- tions including: electronic switching, thin film cir- cuitry, microwave systems and optical masers. Western Electric's wide variety of challenging assignments appealed to Tom, as did the idea of advanced study through full-time graduate engi- neering training, numerous management courses and a company-paid 1'uition Refund Plan. Tom kn.ows, too, that we'll need thousands of experienced engineers for supervisory positions within the next few years. And he's getting the solid experience necessary to qualify. Right now, Tom ls developing new and improved inspection and process control techniques to reduce manu- facturing costs of telephone switching equipment. Tom is sure that Western Electric is the right place for, him. What about you? If you set the highest standards for yourself, enjoy a challenge, and have the qualifications. we're looking for- we want to talk to you! Oppor- tunities for fast-moving careers exist now for elec- trical, mechanical and industrial engineers, and also for physical science, libe~al arts and business majors. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write: Western Electric Company, Room 6405, 222 Broad- way, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a personal interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. Wesf(!rn Electric MANUFACTURING A No suPPL,Y UNIT oF TI-lE BELL sYsT£M * AN E\Q UAL. OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYE~ 'e) Prin.cipal manufacturing location> in 13 cities· Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U.S. EnQmeerlng Research Center, Princeton, N.J. • Teletype Corp., Skokie, Ill., Little Rock, Ark, • Gen. Ho .. 195 elroadwav. New Yor\ ORI \.t CON 0) \ --V--ol- ....... 9: ·1 U1 l r, 1.!,~' The 11 has recE .,. the quru .. ~ the asp ~(> foreigll 'I. Aie~~y u ~ for theil· • L through01 bureaus, 'j tion centE mittee 01 f?t promotin1 ' of this 1 asked f01 magazine 1 . enty-five addition, to variou G1·adua1 All con ' tion are of Union 'iated wi J way. On ' •, Foundati• ance,\ w~ J Hall '30. 1 printed i ~ ! R. e.prints. Ease the written b 1 Pl'of~sso1 nom1cs ; •l' 19~~e rr lished in issue is '~' over 15, ! ctclt:~!~· posium\ 1 ,. of the I ment. • ( ReCJ Ear ':~t.Ru t Requm next ye~ are rum r- year. T · to all'ow 1 at their they ha> m •c cations t Last <lates re< these, f< 1 ,. under tl ~ cember. ' ~~~1~~d men acc1 eventual] This yea l . already , month I •t , All of tl 1: of the d• ;; Committ . cember. , 11 the fear ·'students 1 decision j . The onl~ the pro~ • IJ exceutiOJ • t Union. ' is the dE l'eally w Alban Holds I \'- An op Albany ulty of ested .iu • ~day, Oc· uled eve building, ; or secon : at the : · 'cussion. a quest on law rourt, . topics. Anyon ing the' Professo ~ McGove1 j fore 0~ i David ~Chief o· announc' paper a~ teres ted ; ested in )\ QUt shol 1 diensis I<., ... , .

e. t t t a g h g I' l' p \' ll h a \I \\ tl E fl ir 6 Admissions Co1t{erence Sports • • • Honors. • .. 1-Iomecoming Scheduled 1 (Continued from Pag·e . .!) ( t'oHtirmPd frorn !'age 1) S h l M t ( Cnntilllll'd from !'age fi) C . 00 ee . study in 0lle Or tWO narruW fields, l'Utllillg· will bl' [OlllOlTO\\\'S gt'id T!J,. amrual confl'l'l'tH'<' of Tlw of tlw items that fa-ll in the \ex- in addition to their work in those dash hd W<'Pll tht> tt>am:-; of L'nion d fifty-two. l\:.Y. State Ft•d,•ratiun of Fureign tra t>ll'ort\ category. The award areas of English literature which: and Hodwst•·r· on AlexandL•t' Fidel, This WPeken Lallg\U<t!\l' TPa('hPt's will be held is made after the coaches make they will not have CO\'ered in reg- I bt>g-inning- at 1 :ao. Coach :.\laras alumni will be on campus for un (ktol 1 l'r 1~-UI at L'niun l'ul- a eat·,•ful analy:-;is of the game ular course work. In this way I pretlirts that this game :-;houltl bt Admission School for IL·gL' and Li nto11 11 igh ;;dwol. Tht' film. they will be able to do inclepend-: a dost•, hanl-fDught n•ll\t>~t. llt• thE:' . . . 1 :h,·mp 111' tlw IH<'l'ting- i,.; \Moving llutton sutl'Prl'd a eoneussion in t•nt investigation, and prepare' puintl·d out that thl' karn still Alumni. Thls school lS run 1 Forward \\'ith Foreign Languages last week's dash with Alfred for the comprehensives. Senior lll'<'tls a lot \f work in onh-r lt• by the Admissions Depart-~ in :-\l'\\' York ~tate.\ ~~nd will miss thl' Dutchmen's Honors, conducted by Professor [ furwtion lltO:cil eti'et•tivl'iy, but wm 1 I' t 1 1 · hnnH•eomirw g·ame against the Bradbury, wiil allow participants 1 eliL'lJUragt•d by la:;t \\'<•t•k',; vil'lt•r·y t t t h these rnen how' ·<'a \ll\<'t ' 111 1 ll' program Is a ,.., to concentrate their efforts on in-' {1\·er .-\.lfn·d. Tht• L\uion-Ho<\lll':-;- men 0 eac lun,·lwon ,;,·ltt•dulL'd at Halt• House l'niH·r·sity of EtH'hestcr tumor- to be m ore effective in inter- un ;;:.tttll\da \\'ith g·u,•:-;t SJJeakt•r row. deper,Jdent study. Both courses, tl>t' rivalr·y i:-; an t'Xll\L'nll'ly old 1 will include seminars in which: ull(', dating l>at•k to 1~8!1. ( >1' lht · · . rospective Union· Llr .• JanH·~ I·: .. -\.l!Pn, Jr·., Commis- Without tlw 5 'Jleedy . soph students will }Jresent tl1er'r·' fi8 ('ottll•sts between the two v1ew1ng P ~i<>lll'l' of Edul'ation am! l'n•sident l' · ' tt t t t nton ~ a emp a moun Ing a papers. Althol:lg-h evaluation of teams, l\nion has \\·on ~~ ganw> applicants. \! the .l'nin·r:-;ity _of thl' State of' ground attaek will sutfPr. 1 the honors program cannot he' and \nts til'd 4 time:-;. It j,; 0 j' in- Till'l'e II'L'l'l' :.:1)~1 imitation,; \''llt 1 :'>:t•l\. 't \r·k .. -\.!,;\ llwludl'd 111 the \His lo::;s is a serious one.\ I made ur.Jtil after the graduation tL'l\l'St tu nott• that l'nion ha,.; lwen to alumni, all uf whe11n han• rep- 1 lllL'<'t 111 g at··· do•t~tonstr:atwn lang- t'oal'l1 Joe Maras :-;aid in making I of the first group which will have. vietorious fol' the past thl't•e ypars t\t•:>eittt•d L\ninn in tlwit· lol'al an·a. i llag'l' da:-;st·~. dtSl'_liSSiol_l gToups, the anttolllll'\'111ent. \;-.;ut only is had two years of honors there in hompeoming games, defeating Tl · · \roup .. r me.11 intt·rviewt.'d and workshops whteh wrll ht• held !w an outstanding runner, but he 1 i:s evidence that the prog'ratn i,.; Rllchc•stPt· 1!i-U in 'lil and_ILI'.l. \'\~~~ h~tlf of last year's applkants. 1 at Linton High Sehoul. IS an exeelll'nt blocker· and has 1 worth\·hile. Those students who 44-li last y<'ar aHd 1-±-7 tn 'Ho. Thl'ir l'!i't•cti\-\.'lle,_;:; vva,; hampert.'d, St>n•ral Hundred Teacht•rs ~lotH' wdl _on defeB~e also. Rep~ae- i were in senior honors last year~ Full<l\dng- tht' g-am.l', an all-eul- bv a laL'k of up-to-datl' inforrna- l'rot\•ssor FrPd<'l'i<'k Klemm, Ill!-\' htm t:s uut. ot the qlfe::;twn.l compiled an admidable record of 1 ll'g·,, ,·otfPL' hour will hl' ill'ld at ti'on. Thi,; program willlwlp n·m·. l'hairlllan uf tiH• lJL•partment of Hts t~\ at•• tew and far be-l aeceptanee to graduate schools .. Hall' l!ousL'. eu\\ this pn•blvm. Lang-uagt•s and Tr·t•a,ur·er of tlw t \\'l'ell. I Encourag·e Independence I Alumni to Ht>turn to Fraternities A~pects of Admis,;ion Di,.;cussed' ;;tatt• Fl'dl'rati\Il .. r Lang-uagl' :\lara,; is :-dtifting- :;wingback The only department which, Aftt•r the game, honll't'.oming Tlw pn•g:ta.lll will <'<>nsi\l main- Teachel's, PXJ!Pcts ~<'\\eral hundred Art :\I at shalJ tn Dutton's position I will institute a major change i,.; · bt•co>mPs a fratemity alTair, a,; the Jv of IL•<'ltll'L'S on till' srtuatlons <>\'l'l'llig·ht g·upst~ from all oYer and will start Ed Kessler, a the political science department.· day's aetivities art• rlimaxed by a ,;·hkh fare the interviL'\\\l'l'. Dean thl' statl' in addition to tt•achers speedy baek from Albany !'harm- Prof. Keene stated that \although round of parties at tht· various l!untll'_Y will sp~·ak _\n in:t·rpr~·t<~~ II £r~··n.:._~_:::elwrweta<~Y area'-------~~Y· in the swing-back position. the c!epartme~rt was satisfied wit_h houses. Cuektail hours, dunces, tiun uf lJilanl >'<\Ut\l'\· :\1 t. l ,n ktl . · -- the rdea behmd the program, It tea,; and dintwr:; will be available will di:-;<\U\s t h~· l'<~nll•nlp<>l':t·l··y 1 f>!f felt .~hat additional l'xperimenal tu fratL\mity lll\'mber,;, alumni and hiFh ::<L\h\ol. :\lr. ::--l'!nntdt \\ r_ll <h ,d i work sh?uld be done: Th~ pru-1 then· gue:;ts_. . . . \\tth ,tudvnt a:<l :tnd th\ Illt]l•,'~-. gram, whiCh was u senes of sem-, ll~>llWromtng ungrnut<·d ut l.n- tan~·e ,,f 11<>11-intl'll<·~·tt~a: qu:th!t·.: 1 inars last year and which a!lowed, ion at ubuut t!w tun_t .\!' tl~e c:l'n- l'.att<>ll:i ,uch a~ ,-xtt.I< \II Ill ul<~t litttle tnt!l'pendent study, wtll ex-, tun· wht•u ! ratt•t·mtt,•,; mvrted acli\·iti,-,.; or unu,;ual tran•l l'X]w~·- j periment with two new ap- • .--------------- i<·ncvs. 1-:adt uf tlw fou_r ac;u!t•tnH' proaches. One group of students, divi\ium; awl tlw ph~·,-1cal Pdm·a- will dwo independent analysis of tion pn•gram ,,-ill ht· dioe'll\;'\_d by one aspect of political science .. proft'.\'·\'\'' ft· .. :n •·adt Itl<li\'ldtwl Another will ctmcentrate on read- divi~ion. . . ings suggested by tht' depart-· Otw pr.,bil'lll \Yh1ch w_rll bl' o\\t'l'- ment. com•· :~ thl' lt•ndl'li<'Y n! till' alum- I Aceurate evaluation of the ni t<> lw 11\ l'Ily L'llthu~iastic about 1 honors programs is not possible Cni<>n. It i> abo hope·~! that <>ll<' I on the basis of one year's per- l'l'sult of t lw ~'.\h\\l .wrll b~·, that I ~ormance. The c?ncensus of opin-1 thl':'c :tlumm \\ :ll bt. mdu~ td t\ ron among the faculty and these i s<•e·k ,-t ud•·nt,; at ht~h sl'hnols students involded is that the which hav<' .n~'t pn•vJnusly s .. nt honor8 programs are an import-: ,.;tueh·nt,; to L lll\111. , ant addition to the school's cur- Dinner Plannt·d at 1\.l'IJ: Ht•,.;idl'llCl' 1 ricula, and should be maintained. All al ulllni rc-pll•:<t•ntatin·~ and' Thus far, 1_111 av~i.lable evidence thPir \\ivv,.; an· inYilt·d tu a dmrwr 1 supports th1s posttiOn. Friday lliJ2.ht at tl~e hon;l; of l'r?-~ fp,;,;or atJd Hr,;. h.l'lz. I hey wdl, abo r·•·r•·ivt• ,·omplimPntary passes 1 tu Satunlay',.; f u o t b a II g-anw 1 against HnL\hestl'l'. \\\'p art' \\t'I'Y. \But how was I to know? I'm only a Ft·eshman.\ pleas .. d,\ s:tid :\1 r. _!'Parson, \at _ . _____ _ the till<' ll':'!JllltSI' of the aJUllltll '--------------- l't:pl'l':-'\'ll tatiH·:' in this yrog~·am. ' Tht'\'' mt•n han· takl'n t11ne from ' tlwir bu,-irwss\.':-; \\ that they could he• ll!nl\l' di\•l'li\\l' in help-' ing- us ;:·d thL' ht·~t qu:tlitit·d frt•,..h- man ela,.;s pos,;iblL•. Tlwir lnyal t~· i,; \\Pl'Y t'<>llllll('lldablt>.\ Mountebanks ( l\on t.inm•d from PagE' 1) enuntry. Th•· t>xact tnpit· of his il'ctun· ''ill b,• givrn at a futurP dat<'. Zipp' s Barber Shop Complete Barber Service 1569 Von Vronken Ave. ------ ------- 20 WASHERS WASH 25c- DRY 10c NORGE LAUNDROMAT 25 PARK PLACE Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Catering to Union College Students Fddoy, October 11 , 1963 alutmri bm·k fur a. home ftwtball g:nlll', Since that tiH-W, homecom- ng h:ls bepn expanded to inc'lude til alurntti and has t•onH' teo mean .t grc•a t dt•al to the l'olil'ge. It is l time fnr alwnni to t·evisit the hallmvpd instihltitm where they \\'l'l'l' l'dueated atHl be reunited \\'ith thnsP lifelong· friends whom tlw~· Jill''. while at l'ollt•g-e. Honw- ·oming- W L'l'kl•nd !'<•presents the bringing together of the alumni, ;tudPHts, faculty and adrninistra- ion in an effort lo benefit l'Hion. ~---~~~-~~~~~* HOLIDAYl Bll.LIARDS 1625 Curry Rd. 10 Min. From Campus over Cross Town Spur In Rotterdam Shopping Center • Special Rates 10:30 AM-5:00PM LADIES PLAY F R E E open 1 0:30 A M - 12:00 MIDNIGHT - DAILY -COUPON- Worth SOc While Playing at HOLIDAY BILLIARDS Offer Expires Nov. 1 5, 1963 Tlw :\lountdJanks fall produe- tion \\'ill ht> li!Hi<•r tlw din·L\tion of I 'ro fl'\'\ r l; itfonl W. \\ling at<• and 3 Doors Up From Branch Post Office Block West of West College Tom Thomsen wanted challenging work I' ro f esso r J \h n B . ( ; i rd n e r. J o h n - \-\'\\'><><-::>-<><>-<>-<><><-::>-<><>-<-<>-<><>-<>-<><>-<-><><-<>-<>-<>-<>-<><>-<>-<>-<>- :\lazwta i~ pn·sid<·nt of the. l :\1ountt·b~mk;, in formal l'X i~tence X ,_inc .. 1!1:20. f Mother Curriculum Ferro's Restaurant (l'ontinul•d f1·om Page 1) Pilot Project Planned Specializing in Italian - American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. During thi,.; ~l'll!P.ster, a pilot· ,.,·aluatioii will hl' •·ondul'trrl in 1 orw d<•partniPnt of pach divi,.;ion. BasPrl upon thl' !'P~ults, the pro- I gram will l'ithPr lu• l'Xpaudt>d to! ineludl' all nf tlw dPpart llll'nt,.; or i modith·d to JnPl't an;-.· fa~ulty :-;ug-1 gl'st ions that might arist>. __ i Greet the shirt ~\\ Oxford ed:~:~i~~ '~· ~·· I by ...ARROW_;_ ~ (~~:· i ., ~·j Any scholar will appreciate -v:..-.., ~--~~ ' · this new Decton oxford shirt ... the latest graduate to the world of wash-and- wear by ARROW. A blend of 65% Dacron* polyester and 35% cotton ... it outlasts all cotton shirts. From that famous button-down collar to the back button and back pleat, it's University Fashion at its best. Tapered to trim you down, \Sanforized-Plus\ labeled to ensure a lasting fit, Decton oxford comes in white, colors and British stripes. Short sleeves as illustrated only$5.95 ''DuPont T .• ll. for its polvest.er fiber I He found it at Western Electric T. R. Thomsen, B.S.M.E., University of Nebraska, '58, came to Western Electric for several reasons. Important to him was the fact that our young engi- neers play vital roles right from the start, working on exciting engineering projects in communica- tions including: electronic switching, thin film cir· cuitry, microwave systems and optical masers. Western Electric's wide variety of challenging assignments appealed to Tom, as did the idea of advanced study through full-time graduate engi- neering training, numerous management courses and a company-paid Tuition Refund Plan. Tom knows, too, that we'll need lhousands of experienced engineers for supervisory positions within the next few years. And t1e's getting the solid experience necessary to qualify. Right now, Tom is developing new and improved rnspection and process control techniques to reduce manu- facturing costs of telephone switching equipment. Tom is sure that Western Electric is the right place for him. What about you? If you set the highest standards for yourself, enjoy a challenge, and have the qualifications we're looking for- we want to talk to you! Oppor- tunities for fast-moving careers exist now for elec- trical, mechanical and industrial engineers, and also for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write: Western Electric Company, Room 6405, 222 Broad- way, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for J personal interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. r:i\ A,\'\O SUPPLY UNIT OJ- THE BLLL .:_,y~lL ,'.,;! \!!!!!!!:) Prir.c1pal manuiact .• Hir.g lorat~on· 1n 1 ~ •d•e<. · r·rf'rr~t.r•£ ~\'Pntt~r~ ·n n'\id'·l of the~.P !.Jn.f' r 1t·P·~ nlus 36 others throughC1ut the U.S Fn~ ~PE\r ,...g Re~earch Cer•pr, h· .. ,-e~::-· \ _; • ... f-,1-'~,::..· C'cr:, c-.kok t•.' , L ~:'r Ro _k, Ark, • Gt'n 1-!G, :95 !9•cJdwa-,, Nflw Y.:r~ ORI 'coN 'f· Vol. 9 :J. ,, ThE has rec the qua: the asp ·foreign Th(• L' Ag-ency for theit· c · througho bureaus, l i o 11 cent m i ttl·e \ jJI'OJllO[itl of this a~kt·d fo magaz in< l'lllV-fi\'L' <ul<fition, t\ \·ariot Gradua . .l.ll Col tion Ul'P of l'nion ia tl·d w i \·ar. Or F\;mdati 'l Jl L'l',\ \\' Hall ·:w. print,•d i 0. ltt>prints l·:a~P th• written I l'rofps,;o noruic:; ' I !Jri:L Tht• r li:;hed ir issuv i:-; IJ\\\•l' li\i ~t udents ( 'nlll'g-l'. po:-;iun1\ 11f the llll'll t. Ret Eat Ru RPque llPXt Yl' :1n• r·un \Pat:. l to allow at theil· tht•y ha· c·ations Last datP:-~ J'P thl':-i(', f . und••r t <\L·tnher. I< l'CE' pted mission llll'l! arr ' \ P\\entual This ve: alrea~ly month ·All of t of the <i <:ommit· ePmber. the feu: 0 • student~ decision The onl the pro' o • exce!)tio C\ nion. is the d t·eally \1 0 AI bar Hold! o An OJ Albany ulty of Psted j1 ., , day, 0< uled ev< building or sec01 at the cuss ion. a ques on law ! l'OU!\t topics. An yo ing the Profess• MeGove . fore Oc Davie Chief c an noun< paper a teres tee ested ir *out sho diensis nesday l

11, 1963 football e, homecomQ to include to mean It is 1·evisit the where they be reunited whom Home- the the alumni, administra- Union. Rd. Campus n Spur tes F R E E - 12:00 Playing 15, 1963. manu- place Oppor- elec- and your r write: Broad- arrange System t the U.S. New Yor~ O.RIENTATION ~ CONTROVERSY · Page 3 ALBANY LAW SCHOOL Page 4

11, 1963 ft·wlball e, hon1ecom- to include teo mean ollege. It ili revisit the where they be reunited ·il'nds whom H onw- tl;te the alumni, admlinistra- l'nion. AY 1 Rd. Campus n Spur F R E E - 12:00 N- Playing 15, 1963 manu- place yourself, cations Opper- for elec- ers, and business get your write: 2 Broad- arrange System M~ the U.S , N~w Y,:r~ ,, ., \' 0 0 \ ORIENTATION CONTROVERSY Page 3 Founded at [Jnion College Ill 1877 ALBANY LAW SCHOOL Page 4 ----------------------------------------------------·-------------------------------------------------------------- PRICE 15 CENTS Vol. 93 - No. 5 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTO.BER 18, 1963 Index Ebb·Andre-vvs Lectures On Modern Faith l'pDll ll'al'in~-; c•dl<·g't', ll1 .. \J:- drL·ws did a g·rl'at dl'al of J.,.,t•;u..J( on the C'fft•cb of l'Xtn·Jm•l\· [,\ tl'lllpPraturl's nn ditft·n·nt J;l:tl•·t- iab. During· World \\'a1 11. Jt,. ust>d his km>ldetlge Df lo11· tt·n~­ pt·ra t Ul'l'S t\ dt•vdop a bo[.,md .. r. Plt>etrkal rl'oisl<'ll<'t• m;(tl'rial u~t·d t•• mt·asur<· I'Pi'Y small aln.,unt,.; .. r radiation, for infra-n·d radiation, which could l'llablt• <HlP tn \ ir, the dark\ bv llll'an~ of infra- red rays. · Dr. Andrews organizt•d an atomic research gl'DU!J, in 1 ~.J;;,;, that later became associated with the l\lanhattan l'rojc·!·t. Since th<· perfection of the atom it• bomb. ])J. Andre\\'s has bl•t·ome partieulaJ]\· intrrrsted in th<' l'lfl'd of at.,mi·,. energy on social and political lifL·. Hl' has lPt'tUrl'd a grl'at dl'al \n the n•ligious implit-ation;; of m\d- em scientific disroYerit•s. Co-Author ·<>f Chemistry Tt•xt Dr. Andn•ws has n•cPntlv t'\JIJJ- pleted some re:-;l'arch in tlit• fi,.], I of ThL·rmod;ynamks which ha,. lead lD a IH'\V theory of the kin•·- tics of the liquid littitt•. Ht• j,; als\ co-author of FundamPntal l'lwm- istry, an introdudnr~· !Pxt!Jook usPd in Freshman clll'mistrv at Union and many otlwr or' thP nation's colle gl'\· Danfot·th Grant Sponsors The Danforth \'i:.;iting Ll•t•tur- PI'\ project that brings Dr, An- ~lrPws tD out· campus was organ- IZed by the Danforth FDundation and thl' Assodutiun of AnH·rican Colleges, and is pre:;ently in it:-; seventh Yl'ar. The aim of thili group i::; \to strengtht•IJ the intt·l- lectual, the religious and tlw cul- tural aspects of liberal Pdumtiun in the 1..: .S.\ Kroll Quartet & Glazer Perform Monday Night Tidmarsh Plans 'Concert Series . BesidP:1 thr Tw·sday Convoea- lton, Dr. AndrPW:1 will attend a luncheon with the Chemistry fa<·- ulty on :\londay, and ha\'l' a pn'\'\ conferPnce on Tuesday at 1 :·lG at Hale House. He will also deliVl'l' a lecture in the Chemistry builtl- ing on Tuesday at 2 ::HJ and hold personal discussions with facultv and students on Tuesdav at 4:11tl at Hale House. ' Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh, Professor Eme1·itus uf Music, will p1·esent Albany Law School Holds Open House Accelerator Installed GatesmenAdd New Members I the first of a series of recitals this Sunday in :\-1cmorial Chapel. Tlw com·l•rt will hl').dn at 4 P.M., I and the public is invited free of ! charge. A small group of sophomores , A \'an clP (:raaff nuclPat· Jlai'- An open hom;e will he held at ti<'IP tH'rPIPrator will ill' installed Albany ~a';\· Sehoul for the_ fac- in tlw Ph~·si('!'l building in mid- ulty of_ U_nwn College _and mter- ~ovpmlH·r. ('onerete walls have estecl JUnwrs and semors Tues-jlu•en built in room 111. and a • day, Octobe~ 2ind. The sched-~ water tank was al:-;o put intf'l L 1 ll~d _events mclude a tout· of _the plaee. Both t lwse additions are lu!ldmg, attendance at a first designed to pren'nt radiation or second year class, a lunche~m from sprrading outsidP the room at t~e scho?l, ~nd a panel dis- wht>n• the apparatus will he t'USsion .. Th1s w1ll be followed by hous<•<l. a questiOn and answer ]Jt>riod, Tlw at'<'Pil'nttDr was m•quired at on law school techniques, moot a cost of ;::~o.ooo. Its main body ! <'ourt, law review and other is romp(,:-;ed of' a ('yliindPr five topics. . . feet long- and two fed in diamc- . Anyone mteresll•d 111 attend- \.t•r and is capable of producing mg ~he open l_wuse sl~ould e;~n~act I <'lll'J'g~· of up to fourlel'll million Professor Flllkelste1n, Vv Illmm 1 electmn volts. Tlw target of the . ~IcGovern or ~~usty Markey lw- 1 at•<·elt>rated partil'ies is plated in I ore October 19th. · the water tank, and eonnected I to the marhinP by a three foot David Berenson, Editor in long· vacuum tube through \vhich Chief of the Concordiensis, has 1 tlw particlcH travel. announced that positions on the 1 Al'eunling to Professor CharleS The Kroll Quartet (lt•ft to right), \'\'illiam Kroll, William Stonl', paper are still available to any in- I D. Swartz, of the Physics Depart- Harry Zaratzian and A YI'OU Twerdowsky will presl•nt a program of teresterl freshman. Anyone inter-; ment, the machine will be used chamber music in :\lemorial Cha)>el on :.\londay, Octobt>r 21 at H::lO ested in writing, business, or lay- to ohsen·p nuciPaJ' l'Pactions. It P.~I. Featured with them is the noted pianilit Frank Glnzt•r. This *out should report to the Con cor- i will be utilized in faculty ami will be the first in a series of concerts HJlonsort•d annually by l'nion diensis office Monday and Wed-~ studeJ:Jt research as well as in the College and the Schenectady :\luseum. Cn•dit will be giH>n for nesday evening5 at 8 p.m. SeNior Atomic Physics course. ·convocation a.ttendance. (Story on Page 3) l ; D1·. Tid mar:-;h was fDI'llH'rly 1 fouwl<'d The Gatesmen in the fall Din·,·t•ll of :\lu\ic at Union and I of 1Dfi2, to aid the admission\ I: as gill'll ol·er noo recitals on I office in its relations with ::;uh- t';llll]lll>'. ..\t tlw dose of this i freshmen. The Gatcmen's main V.l'<'k',; l'!'<'ital Ia· ;l'ill have his I rl!~etion is tD aet as guide~ for l'<'('\rd hv Columhm, on sal(' at. I'Isttors to the E'ampus. Last rost. · I spl'ing the mem!JPrship of tlw 1 ~d~ .!_Jet•petuating, honor organi- After a complPte re,iew of the: zatwn was expanded from lS to facts cmwt•rning the J>Uh!ication: ~0 members. of :\lr. ('iarant•llo's article in thl' · .Jac·k Ilin;chmann st~·pJll'd tlo\\·J( Octnhl·r lth issup of tlw C0:'\1-. frnm th<' pn·sid<•nc~· last Ttll'><da~· CORHIE:\St-\, it is thl• judg-ment I aftPt' a <HlP ~·E.'ar tP(ItJJ't', ant! of tlw Publications Board that! Tntt'e l!m·tman was l'il'~tl'd as tht· . tlw Editnr-in-Chi<'f be censured m•w prPsident, and Larry llitth.·- for failing to l':\.l'l'ci~e necessary; man \Yas eiPdt·d St•tTl'tary- Tn•as- l journalistic l'l'SJHllll'ibility. . UIPL Eil'Vt'll :-;opholi\L>I'<':' \1'1'1<' 1 It i>< our conclusion that thE' 1 al~n PIPcted to tlw lll<'llJht•r><hip. JHihlication of t.ht• offensh't' por- filling· the placl's of J'E'tiring nwm- tion of the artie!!' was occasioned. hpr:-; an(l PXfJ:UHling t[J(' organi- h~ t.lw inadH·i·t l'nl incluHion of zation to ~fi nll'mhPrs. Thl' Ill'\' matt•rial \\ hich neither the author, llll'lllbl'l's an Carl AxP!rnd, Chip nor till' Pdit.or intended to be· Bacon, John Burnham, Rob Cud- printl'd. The full we.ight of the 1 t!c•hark. John Fuller, Hob Li,:k, ct·nsure falls entirely upon the GPorgl' Mas!Pr~, AI l\!illPr. ,fpff Editor-in-Chief of the ('0~('0R- ·Ratner, Jaf'k Sl'ifE'l'l, and .John IHE:\SIS. SpPnt·er. -Printed by direction of the On Homecoming Weekl'IHI tlw Publications Board. (Continued on Png-e G)

2 Qrnurnr Publlohed Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· tiona! Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Pul>llshers Representat lv\. 420 Madison Ave., :-<. Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered in the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class ;).!all Matter. Subscription 15c a copy: $3 a year delivered anywhe1·e in Lhe t\nited ~tates. SENIOR BOARD DAVID BERENSON '64 ................. FR 2-6583 ...................................... Editor in Chief IVEX8 LEt'LOHB '64.. ................... DI 6-989& ............................ Business Manager SI!>IO:-: SOBO '64..... ........ .. ......... lH 6-9348 ............................... Managing Editor ~1!rx:~~~~~~~ ;-~~:-~~~·::·:~~-:~:~~~~~~~~·:·:~~~-:~~::~~ ::::::~:: .. _~:::·;;;:::;~;-::::;::;:::::~~~~~~j!~m · JUNIOR llOARD Michael Berson '6 4 .. . . ..................... ................. .... .. ............ · .lllal<e· Up Editor Mark Strom '65 .. .. ......... .. ............... . ............................... Copy Editor Richard Slrton '66 .. .. . .............................. Assistant Feature Editor Robert Hoffman • 6 6 ......... . ..... ........................ .. ......... Assistant News Editor David Volkman • 66 ....... .. . .... . -······· Assistant :Sews Etlitor r;i:~:~~i;:::··;.••••• ::: :•_• :•••·••••••••••••••••••••••••••~•·••••• ~~~El ~~!~ ~~~r;' 0 ~~~~~~~:;:•; 6~ 6 ~ ... ::: ::::: :::::::::::.:::::: .:............... :-i;,:t·i;;~;,:i ... Adv~~i 8 s~~:~~an;g~~ . Rl h d It . 1 · 66 ...... ............................. .. ... Local Advertising Manager R ~.~~ Kle~~c ~66 ..... : .. :: ........................................................ Subscription Manager R~bert Ho·.lchak • 66 . ........................ ............ .................. Circulation Manager Splendor On The Sidewalk Tomorrow the Garnet football team travels to Troy to battle our arch-foes R.P.l. This game fifteen years ago would have been the occasion for great physical damage to both schools by a number of raiding parties. Happily, this practice was stopped with the institution of the Dutch- men's Shoes Trophy. Unhappily, Union students are now doing to the Union campus what used to be done so capably by our engineer friends from Troy. It has long been a Union tradition to cover the Idol every few days with a fresh coat of paint. This has allowed the Union student to express himself artistically and emo- tionally and has caused no damage to anyone or anything. Recently, some students have decided that the Idol is ~ot adequate for them to vent their full class or fraterruty spirit, and they have taken to painting the walks around the Idol. This not only is unsightly, but a student was re- cently hurt when he slipped and fell on a freshly painted sidewalk. The fraternities have been receiving a majority of the criticism for our multi-colored campus. For once they have been unjustly accused. The most recent example of side- walk-painting around the Idol was perpetrated by a floor of a dormitory, and the members of all seventeen fraterni- ties woke up last Saturday morning to find themselves con- fronted with bright, indelible '67's painted in front of their houses. An artistic renaissance has been predicted at Union for many years. We would hate to think it has finally arrived in the form of sidewalk painting. H. R. Ekins We were saddened this past Monday to learn of the death of H. R. Ekins, the editor and publisher of the Sche- nectady Union-Star. To many Union students he was sim- ply the man whose column appeared on the front page of the Union-Star every day. To those of us who have been on the Concordiensis staff for the past few years he was someone greater, a man who kindly helped a college news- paper fighting for its existence. Three years ago the Concordiensis was suspended by the Student Council. Upon hearing the news, Mr. Ekins immediately offered us two full pages in the Union-Star and also arranged to have the newspaper distributed free on campus. The Concordiensis was reinstated after a one week suspension, but, thanks to Mr. Ekins, we were able to meet our deadline for that one week. We will surely miss him in the future. The Flickering Lights The remodeled South College will be two years old this spring. One of the great improvements over the old South College has been the insertion of lounges on each floor of the building. These lounges can be of great benefit to stu- dents, particularly those who wish to study late without disturbing their roommates. Only one trouble confronts those who wish to use them; there are no desk lamps in them. Students must either bring lights from their rooms THE fr<ESf-4MA ''/-low GOVLO /•Ute GIVE ME AN F- I I-lAO 573 ON MY 80AROS 11 Letter to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: Sorrow, I suppose, is the proper word for my feelings concerning the letters to the editor in last week's Concordiensis. Little, harm- less smudges of ink on paper have become more important to us than the exposing of truth. What creatmes are we to throw up our hands in horror at com- mon words and coldly discuss, on the other hand, the violent hatred which causes the murder of chil- dren. The corl'espondents ignored the stomach turning reality of the stupid hatred of the poor white Southerners in question and chose to correct their language. I am not advocating the wide- spread use of \obscenity\; I am advocating the broadcast, without limit, of the truth of a filthy mat- ter. And filthiness is inherent in the nature of this subject of prej- udice. The article was not con- cerned with spades, but with ma- nure; and the only thing to call manure is manure. I would further like to point out to one of the correspondents that justification of profanity in the press has not one infinitesimal thing to do with whether people around the campus use these words. The people under analysis used them! They used them to be vile! These people reflected their violent intentions in their pro- fane language in the most open and obvious manner. Is not this the thing which is obscene '! Do you want to hide this? You will have a difficult time of it with the clergy, presidential adminis- tration and a goodly portion of the citizenry working in the op- posite direction. Rodham E. Tulloss '66 Ca~npus Briefs October 18 expert in Thermodynamics and \Summerskin directed by Leo- Professor of Chemistry, will be poldo Terro Nilsson, will be shown on the campus on Tuesday and at 7:00 and 9:00 P.M. Friday in Wednesday as a Danforth Visit- EE 22. The director creates in- ing Lecturer. At a convocation on terest in an Argentine girl who is Tuesday at 11:30 P.M. in Memor- urged by her grandmother to en- ial Chapel he will discuss \Faith ter a clandestine relationship with for the Atomic Age.\ During his a wealthy young man doomed to stay at Union he will attend sev- die of a lung disease. The young eral meetings as well as speak beauty is stirred to sympathy about various scientific topics with when the yound man woos and members of the faculty and stu- wins her. dents. October 19 A Student Council Meeting is A New York State Federation being held in the Hale House of Foreign Language Teache 1 ·s Student Lounge at 7:30 P.M. Convention is being held on cam- Tuesday. All students are invited pus Saturday. A luncheon will be to attend. held in Hale House at 12:00 noon, October 23 and the annual meeting will fol- A Naval Aviation Information low in Memorial Chapel at 1:30. Team will be in Hale House from 10:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M. Wednes- October 20 day. They will discuss the oppor- The IFC will hold a coffee hour tunities for a college student in from 2:0() t(} 5:00P.M. on Sunday Naval Aviation. at the following houses: Kappa A Peace Corps Representative Alpha, Phi Gamma Delta, Beta will be in Psychology Lab 113 at Theta Pi, Delta Upsilon, Psi Up- 7:30 P.M. Wednesday. An in- silon, Chi Psi, Sigma Phi, Alpha formal discussion will be follow- Delta Phi, and Phi Sigma Kappa. ed by a movie. All freshmen are invited to at- October 24 tend. The Naval Aviation Informa- An Organ Recital is scheduled tion Team will be on eampus. Sunday afternoon at 4:00 in Me- They can again be found in Hale morial Chapel. Performing will House from 10 till 2. be Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Professor October 25 Emeritus of Music. We are gifted with another The Community Vesper Service chance at Rochester on Friday is being held at 7:30 P.M. in Me- when the freshman football team morial Chapel Sunday. The speak- plays them at 2:30 P.M. er will be Dr. Lawrence Reddick, The Campus Religious Council Coppin State Teachers College. is offering to make arrangements October 21 for the visit of a rabbi, priest, or The repeated course fee is due ministl:)r to any fraternity that Monday, would like to invite him to dinner Frank Glazer, pianist, and the and an informal discussion after- Kroll Quartet will entertain at a wards. The student in charge of convocation Monday at 8:30 P.M. the arrangements is Jacob Lieb, in Memorial Chapel. It is the Phi Epsilon Pi. The president of first of the Schenectady Museum a fraternity may initiate the ar- Concert Series. rangements by submitting his re- October 22 q'!est in wr.iting and sending it to L1eb at least ten days before the Dr. Donald AnQ.rews a noted date of the dinner. Now T.hru Wed! At 7.00 and 9.00 117 Mohawk Aile., Scotia \**** A brilliant comedy:' -N.Y. Now• or risk losing their eyesight by trying to study with only ~. . 1\ _,:lroN.·S the dim overhead lights on. Lamps have been promised Ufd1. V .D for two years. We know transportation in the United States is not as good as it should be, but we feel the lamps ABo~m .f should have been here by now. 1-2~!:~!!!~!._!:=====:...~~~'~J D!;!!_...J Friday, October l 8, 1963 Friday, Octol History of Jazz: ., Orie: The Great Vocalists Vie!J u. The orien been a topic c By Tom Krehbiel In a recent column we noted the fact that there are relatively few female singm•s in the realm of jazz. This is not the case with male singers, however. The num- ber of men singing in a relatively pure jazz vein is very high. For this reason we will concern our- selves only with the more im- portant and more interesting of these men in this article. Armstrong Sets Style The first of the important ones is Louis Armstrong (yes, him again). Singing in a style very closely related to his trumpet playing, Armstrong more or less set the rules for singing jazz, as fat as that can be done. His lib- erties with ly- rics, phrasing, and melody have all come ta be the basis of singing a tune with a jazz feel- ing. Besides this, wordless scatting, which became a neces- sity for anyone who wished to sing in a manner related to later forms of jazz. Waller Was Influential Many singers in the jazz field are men who have turned to vo- calizing after much instrumental jazz work, much as Armstrong· did. Among these were and are l<'~ts Waller, Nat Cole, Billy Eck- stme, and Jacl} Teagarden. Wal- ler's greatest gifts were as a pi- a~st and composer of songs, but h1s most successful recordings were those on which his voice was featured, usually in a comic role. As a result of this he was thought of more as a clown than as a mus1cian, but many of Wal- ler's 1deas can be found in the work of the better jazz pianists !rom Art Tatum through Teddy W1.son and Bud Powell to The- lomous 1Vlonk. Waller's work may be heard on a number of KCA Victor and RCA Camden L.l:''s which contain works f1·om his most fertile period. Nat Cole led an instrumental group, \The King Cole Trio,'' for some time before he took up singing. When he did he slowly turned from jazz to more popu- lar music reaching some sort of low point in his musical career with the recent \Lazy Hazy, Crazy Days of Summer\ hit. On his way, though, he turned out some remarkable vocal perform- ances which sold well and did n:ot compromise his art. Among t!Iese were \Route \Lush Life,\ and even \Nature Boy.\ Eckstine Was Leader Billy Eckstine was, besides a vocalist, a good player of trum- pet and valve trombone. In the early years of bop he led an amazing orchestra featuring at one time or another, Dizzy Gil- lespie, Miles Davis, Fats Navarro, Kenny Dorham on trumpets; Gene Ammons, Lucky Thompson, Dexter Gordon on tenor sruces; Charlie Parker on alto; Art Blakey on <h-ums; and vocals by Sarah Vaughan and himself. You may not be familiar with all of the above names, but it is a veri- criticism has t table Who's Who of important and a numbe1 movers in the ea!,\ly days of mod- \'i} ju·n.io .. r classes, ern jazz forms. It is unfortunate Week, below ~ that at the time of this bandls existence the musician's union : Pro had put a ban on all recording '' •'· and we have no recordings of the f By J group to hear today. Recently What is th~ ~ckstine's vocal efforts have man hazing ? been confined to syrupy ballads , 1 c guments have and an occasional blues of la Joe Tradition. Tf Williams. His best work from a always hazed jazz point of view is his earlier its sacreligi01 1 1 ·ecordings including \Jelly Jel- I·· tion. Unity. y,\ ''l Want a Little Girl,\ and ' 1 t\ a common en \A Cottage For· Sale,'' which are t t. he freshmen d1fficult to find now. 1 t Cl t 1 e. ass sp Eckstine is one of a group of :t men unite l ~hat o~e could call \blg Hand ,, J o. night-time rE smgers.' Others are Joe Wil- ; against the s< liams, Al Hibbler, and perhaps tain a high dE Jimmy Rushing. These men all although it rr sboun~ hbest bemg .booted along , 1 , ary. Evolu y e1g t to ten brass and a num- · The need fot· 1 ber of .saxes. Although they the sophomor• have made good recordings with . tial class lead smaller groups, the extra push V and rise to 1 a band gives seems to do them \'-\ 1 • All of thesE a great service. Rus}jing, Hib- '\ varying degr~ bler, Williams, and lilclcstine ever, the mai have each turned out some of what are the their best performances with the •» \l results of frE Count Hasie band, as have Tony I~ rather, accep !iennett, Frank Sinatra, .Ella '· there is som< l'·ltzgerald and other good but ' derived from bas1caUy non-jaz:.\. singers. Rush- ., 1 actually what mg ana Hibbler have also work- l eff'ects of fr ed to good effect with Duke El- , Benef1 lington's band. Why a good band Because of berund a singer _makes a differ- , the sophomor• ence IS not certa.m, but we know o P feel inclined t on auxal evidence that it does. r important sc Words In Jazz ' school cheers In the early forties one Eddie ; and motto. Jefferson started putting wor·ds ., f· •. able t~at the to improvised jazz solos. This on then· own started the ball rolling toward learn all the ,Lambert, Hendricks, and Ross der the press (now and Bavan). Between , c fact that ~he ~hese two were a series of re- ~~~se basics cordmgs by K.mg Pleasure whose hcud. \'J'arker's 1V1oou\ stands high . A_lthough 1 aoove anything he or anyone e1se ctp~me Cot?m put out. lt is available on Pres- ·' >.·5latlsfactortly t~ge LP. freshma!l m1 '!'oday as we noted the field is lea~t this sa fuH o! men sj.n.gmg m a jazz zatwn and u• style. 'l'he tinest 01 these is, in 0 ., ~1ble. to challE my opimon, Blli Henderson. .His mev1t~bly tal ba1lau style 1s as good as his on~ mght of swmgers wnich are excellent. H.e tamly canno nas out out two Ll's on the Vee D ' harmful effe< Jay \; the first with ailcom- There has paniment by a few different' Chi- ~hat the frel cago groups, the second lvvith mtramurals : strmgs except tor one tra·c~ by the re!fuiar r a band whicn sounds suspiMous- ) \h Hunts m o~ 1y Hke l:sas1e's and a couple with I steam. an~ ta. r,lytnm accompaniment. On the , QuestiOn. W second L.t' listen especially to ! rals be play \'Tne More 1 ::>ee You\ on which • l' There have Henderson manages to get the , crete sugges1 beautiful feeling that Charlie ' fo~· these r Parker got on his recordings with Wlth~ut ~her a strmg orchestra. This second to plctuie Ll:' is available at one of the t• ' '~ould let ofJ local discount or \factory outlet\ 1 he dorms a stores for about a dollar. It is probably en~ a worthwhile investment. An LP . En]~ on the Verve label will soon be \1 -' • My fmal :r: coming out by Bill Henderson ~ Ily. an argu w1th the Oscar Peterson Trio._ I ~- pelsonal beL have heard a few cuts of this al- though to s bum and it may even top the v apparent c other two Week, ~~tual · and spirited Insufficient As a Liv.ing so than even Other good singers are M.ose ! ·pecially the Allison, who sounds like a com- , I rdency). Ver (Continued on Page 4) [ tact takes pl classes and, 1 no harmful a RECORDS OF , \some lost ha in a few we the majorit; look back up as one of COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway For three Generations ••• ·Those Who Know •. Have been recommending - HERSHEL Phone FR 7-1112 MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons 11 3 Union Graduates in G.raubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ' ·•memories of (Contin YOUR Sl WE I Sho Van V: . ·, Mot '- [ ' \ · Free

1963 Friday, October 18, 1963 3 ·~ Orientation Tradition Viewed Pro And Con Freedom Forum: The Current Program Pianist And Quartet To Present Concert a veri- of mod- ortunate bandls union of the have ballads la Joe a earlier Jel- and are of Hand oe Wil- perhaps men all along anum- they with push them Hib- of the ve Tony Ella but Rush- work- El- band differ- know it does. Eddie wor·ds This toward Ross Between u. The orientation program for the freshman class has recently been a topic of much discussion on the Union campus. Increasing criticism has been heard of the program from many faculty members and a number of students. The presidents of the sophomore and \'l} junior classes, both of who have had experience running Orientation Week, below state their conflicting views on this issue. , Pro ICon II •'· I f By Jack Seifert By Vic Fazio What is the p1:1rpose of Fresh- Each fall a new class comes to man hazing? A number of ar- Union .expecting to encounter a , 1 c guments have been brought forth. new way of life which will, if Tradition. The Sophomores have nothing else, be a more mature always hazed the freshmen and one. Instead of being treated as its sacreligious to break tradi- adults, they encounter a situation. 1 .. tion. Unity. Hazing presents which apparently tries to prove ' 1 t\ a common enemy against which that coliege life demands only f the freshmen inevitably wiU un- obedience to the august Sopho- t ite. Class spirit. As the fresh- more Discipline Committee and a il men unite and participate in number of their ridiculous rules. '' J o. night-time retaliatory measures Orientation. Is Contradictory ; against the sophomores, they ob- The desire to promote Fresh-· tain a high degree of class spirit, man class unity is the basic jus- although it may be just tempor- tification given by all those who , 1 , al'y. Evolution of leadership. defend the present orientation By Eric Levy) ·The need fot· united action against policy. The effect on the class is. the sophomores will cause poten- often just the opposite. Many P.ictured above from left to right are Larry Horowitz, student repre- By Robert A. E. Howe Each year, in cooperation with troness, the late Elizabeth the Schenectady Museum, Union Sprague Coolidge), it has borne Colleg·e has presented to its stud- the name of its famous leader, ents, faculty and the genet•al pub- William Kroll, since 1945. The lie interested in music, a series Kroll, since its inception, has en- of concertl:l. These concerts, al- joyed many successful seasons. though indirectly aimed at filling For some years it had appeared an educational void, are presented under the auspices of the Ameri- primarily for the enjoyment of can Music Guild in New York the College Community. Appear- where now it gives its own an- ance::> suggest that this year's nual subscription series. The series will more than satisfy Quartet is widely traveled, hav- both. I ing appeared regularly at the Season Opens Soon Berkshire Festival, Tanglewood, The new season opens Monday,l Mass., and ~m sever~l ,occa~ions I October 21. Presenting a pro- abroad. Of 1ts four d1stmgmshed . gram of chamber music pianist members, perhaps the best known 1 Frank Glazer and th~ Kroll i~ its leader, Wil!ia.m Kroll. A I . Quat:tet will be guests for that VIrtuoso of the vwh~, Mr: Kroll 1 evemng at 8:30 P.M. in Memorial has played on occasiOn w1th the 1 Chapel. Mr. Glazer and tne Kroll Boston Symphony Orchestra as I. will perform Quintet for Piano well as other. no~ed organiz.ations. and Strings by Schumann and How~ver, he LS hke Glazer m that Quintet for Piano and Strings by he ~m?s the lure of chamber Brahms; the Kroll will a:lso ex- mus1c mescapable. ecute String Quartet, Op. 54 No. Three Selections 6, by Haydn. . tial class leaders to blossom forth members of the class rebel at sentative to the Freedom Forum, Professor Henry Ferguson, Profes- V and rise to the occasion. childish regulations and begin to sor William Murphy, and Professor Neil Allan (seated), members Glazer an Accomplished Artist «., 1 \ All of these arguments possess wondet· just what kind of school of the board of directors of the Forum. The fact that Frank Glazer or The three selections that will be presented Monday evening represent a unique program. It is unique in that Schumann forces his romantic style into the classi- cal mode which he borrowed from Bach and Beethoven. There is the \Papa\ Haydn of classicism in a romantic, sensitive piece. Brahms combines both styles in his work. The program and the performers should provide an en- tertaining evening. ' varying degrees of truth. How- they have entered. Others unable I the Kroll Quartet is perhaps vir- ever, the main argument is not, to stay away from what turns I tually unknown to the average . what are the definite, beneficial out to be the main theme of ori- In Schenectady, though not capacity, and the organization now college community does not di- •t \• results of freshman hazing; but entation week run around campus many of us are aware of it, there boasts a following of approxi- minish the fact they have estab- l~rather, accepting the fact that in the wake of a few extroverts is a thriving non-profit organiza- matly 1100 people. It is continu- lished themselves as accomplish- '· there is some truth and benefit who find the confusion a perfect tion known as the Freedom For- ing to flourish and is a successful ed artists in the music world. Mr. \ derived from the above reasons, opportunity to practice their um. It traces its origin back to going concern. Glazer has appeared widely both ., i actually what are the definite ill- \leadership\ talent. All these World War Two when the Amer- Outstanding Programs in the United States and abroad. 'l effects of freshman hazing? typical freshmen are essentially ican .population was developing an He has performed as guest solo- , Beneficial Results trying to assert their own per- increasing interest in public af- Freedom Forum always endeav-1 ist with such orchestras as the Because of pressure applied by sonalities. Their thoughts are on- fairs. A group called the Citizens' ors to provide the public with the New York Philharmonic the Chi- ' the sophomores, freshmen usually ly superficially of their class. I Council soon emerged as a centre highest caliber of speakers. In cago Symphony, and Iforchestre 0 P feel inclined to learn two or three fear their first contact with Union for lectures on pertinent topics. the past, it has attracted such de la Suisse Romande. f important school songs, a few College is not one that produces Eventually, one of the churches in outstanding figures as the late His association, up to a ' school cheers, the school colors respect for our students. Schenectady sponsored various ad- Senator Robert Taft, the late year ago, with the Fine Arts ; and motto. It is very question- Class hats can be worn, and dresses before the Council, invit- Ele~nor Roosevelt, Theodo.re H. Quartet had met with great sue- ., 1: •• able that they would learn these will be for once, if they're not ing competent speakers. The White (a~thor of The Making of cess and praise from leading on their own, when they seldom made a special obligation of the church did this on a wholly non- the President), ~enator Wa'?lle critics. A fine pianist, Mr. Glaz- learn all the material even un- elass but an opportunity to ex- sectarian basis. Out of this ven- Morse, and Martin Luther Kmg. er's repertoire encompasses all der the pressure of hazing. The press class spirit at the time the ture grew the Freedom Forum. Though not all the lec~urers com- phases of piano music from Bach's fact that they do learn most of individual feels so inclined. Learn- Provides Controversy mand as m':'ch prestige as the Brandenburg Concerti to the of re- whose high e1se . 1 on Pres- · ' c these basics is certainly bene- · h 1 h uld b above each IS thoroughly versed t Th F T mg sc oo songs s o e a The object of the organization . . , . con emporary e our empera- ficial. pleasant experience done through is to bring to Schenectady speak- I~ hts fi_eld, and usually captivates ments of Paul Hindemith. Al- Although the Sophomore Dis- methods which encourage volun- h . h1s audxence. though he has played with great cipline Committee is usually not tary participation, not one which ers w 0 are experts m their par- Unfortunately, Th.e Freedom orchestras and given many re- >·5latisfactorily organized, the . drud d th ticular fields to discuss matters F M d ht t makes 1t gery an ano er on which there are two or more orum on on ay mg was no citals Frank Glazer considers freshman must still rise to at symbol of their inferiority. Fresh- points of view. Hence, the Free- too impressive a spectacle (ac- hims~lf \at home\ with chamber least this same level of organi- man will respond to this type of dom Forum is a body pledged as cording to this onlooker, at least), music. The remainder of the Concert series consists of five programs. There will be two appearances by the Albany Symphony Orches- tra under the direction of Edgar Curtis, one this fall, the other in the spring. Two string quar- tets will be heard this year: in November, the New Danish Quar- tet, and in April, the Pacific String Quartet. Finally, in Feb- ruary, the New York Pro Musica, a group consisting of voices and medieval instruments, will pre- sent a program of medieval mu- sic. field is a jazz is, in .His as his lie th~ Vee accom- Chi- twith by with On the to which get the Charlie with second of the outlet\ r. It is An LP soon be enderson Trio. I this al- top the lv.Lose a com- 4) zation and unity before they are treatment much more readily than an arena. for controversial opin- but that is certainly no indication Oldest String Quartet D ,, able to challenge the SDC. This they will respond to coercion. ions; its primary function is to of what is to follow. The organi- Wally's Diner inevitably takes place by the sec- Sophs Lack Interest t th bl' . h 1 zation stands as a tribute to the ond night of Orientation and cer- The various sophomore classes presen e pu xc Wit t le oppor- improving state of American pub- tainly cannot be considered a h h tt t d t t tunity to listen to reknowned men lie awareness and as a sign1'ficant w o ave a emp e 0 carry ou who expound their attitudes and harmful effect. a satisfactory orientation have beliefs on provocative issues. Aft- cultural achievement in Schenec- 9 ' There has been a suggestion generally not succeeded. Despite er the lecturer has ended his de- tady. Not every city can offer its that the freshmen participate in attempts to organize each class livery, the floor is open to any- citizens such an opportunity to intramurals as a replacement for for orientation work, a small one who wishes to ask a question hear the opinions of intelligent, the regular midnight \Sophomore group of people tend to carry out or introduce an idea. highly educated, and well inform- ) \h Hunts\ in order to let off some all the duties of the Discipline ed individuals. The Freedom For- I steam and take up this slack time. Committee. The President, a few Growth C<lntinues urn is leading the way toward a · Question: Where could intramu- friends whom he has begged to The Freedom Forum of Sche- more open-minded and alert citi- · I rals be played at 12 midnight? help him, and a group of sopho- nectady is one of the most sue- zenry. • ~·, There have been no oth!'lr con- more football players make up the cessful organizations of its kind · 'crete suggestions for a substitute entire soph!;lrttore strength. Oc- in the country, according to Pro- LEARN TO BOX!! i for these night-time activities. casionally ·a fraternity pledge fessor William Murphy of the BE A MASTER OF SELF-DeFENSE. EXPERT Without them, it is not difficult class in Hell Week will let out English Department. However, it TRAINERS' SECRETS CAN BE YOURS! NO to picture how the freshmen for a few hours. Their exuber- suffered a severe decrease in EQUIPMENT NEEDED. FORM A CAMPUS b h . h G l El BOXING CLUB AMONG YOUR FRIENDS FOR t• ' would let off this excess energy, ance and lack of communication mem ers 1 P w en enera ec- FUN, SELF-CONFIDENCE AND REAL PHYSI· The dorms and Diamante's would with their classmates will often tric first commenced its program CAL FITNESS. COMPLETE BROCHURE AND probably end up in a shambles. cause them to act on their own of decentralization. However, LESSONS ONE DOLLAR. SEND TO: EnJ·oyable Time and destroy any pattern the class thanks to the concerted and ac- PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, t . ff t f th F ' ff' 363 Clinton Street, u· , My final .Point is not necessar- has decided upon. The ideal soph- lVe e or s 0 e orum s o I- Hempstead, Lon 11 l•land, ~ ily an argument but mther, a omore Discipline Committee has cers, membership has soared to New York . ! .. uersonal belief. Freshmen, al· never been organized because of ~;:;;:;:;:;;:;;::;:;:;::;::;~:;:;:;::;::;::;:;:;::;::;:;;:;;:;;:n::Y:,;::;:;:;:;;:;;::;::;:;:;::;:;::;:;;:;::;::;::::;:; though to some it may not be the lack of interest and time on . apparent during Orientation the part of its members. \Week actually have an enjoyable Competition Is Weak and spirited time, probably more Even the class rivalry week, so than even the Sophomores (es- which is still a good way of ex- u N I 0 N I N N ! ·pecially the Sophomore Presi- pressing class spirit, is struggling . . . · . 'I rdency), Very little physical con- (Continued on Page 4) l tact takes place between the two ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;; classes and, as a result there are 1 no harmful after-effects, save for s p Q R T , ,. some lost hair which grows back .. in a few weeks time. Moreaver, the majority of uppe1•classmen C Q A T S look back upon Orientation Week as one of the more enjoyable ' ·•memories of their freshman year. (Continued on Page 4) -WOOL & ORLON -ALL WOOL • I J ... l1r l' ' ·~ . ·, NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Sizes 35-46 Regulars • Short - Long 19.84 • ,.~ 334 State St. Van Vranken Avenue We gladly Cash your checks Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. 517 UNION STREET ., + 6 t + 4 + f A + f A 6 4 A ,4 + 6 ! + + 6 4 A 4 4 6 6 6 f f t 6 * f f 6 6 A 6 t + 6 6 f 6 ·fAMILY BILLIARDS SPECIAL RA YES For Union Students (with ID Cards) 1 - 5 P. M. 7 Days Per Week 1615 UNION STREET (Over KAY'S) DRUGS OPEN 11 :30 A. M. - 12:00 MIDNIGHT Phone 346·9632 ... ....... ., .... ., .. ..;.. .. , ................... , ........ . The Kroll Quartet is perhaps the oldest all-American string quartet in this country. First known as the Coolidge String Quartet (after its founder-pa- Zipp' s Barber Shop Complete Barber Service 1569 Van Vrcmken Ave. 3 Doors Up From Branch Post Office • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvda Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. f f f f f f f f iff t f f T f Y f t T t f T t f f f tTT\\'f\f T f Y 9' t 'T T 'f t T T 'T' T T DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118. 120 JAY STREET ···············•+••••·················· 'fTfff't'ffTTt'tfottff.Yttffttt•ttttfttfff'tfftfTfft Dave·s :eq_uit\e ~hop WHITE LEVI'S 326 ST A'J£ ST Daily to 5:30 K ·I Tues. & Thur. 'ti19

4 Friday, Octobe·r 18, 1943 Orientation ... Grain Of International Significa.nce Fridayr Oct1 PRO By Richard Sipton This figure is almost negligi·ble eral and :politically based than are in the face of a $7 billion farm the favorable ones. Former Vice- , budget. The deal will also bene- President Nix:on, when he l'eturn- fit farmers, as the present price ed from a I'ecent tour of eastern support of wheat is about 55 cents Europe, denollnced the adminis- First Of A Series: (Continued from Page 3) Finally, when all is said and done, there has developed a strong bond of friendship and understanding between the Freshmen and So- phomores as a resul't of Orien- tation Week which, after all, is in l'eality just a game. For several months it has seemed that the Cold War is thawing, The recent nuclear test ban treaty, according to some groups, attests almost conclusive- ly to this trend. More recent is President Kennedy's approval of the sale of a staggering amount of wheat to the Soviet Union; it will be the second largest wheat t1·ansaction in history. The cost to the Soviet Union, for 150 mil- l ion bushels, is expected to be $250 million. The deal also in- cludes a ;sale of $60 million in \•.'heat and flour to some eastern European satellites. , ., Albany Law School a bushel. tration's polic\'' of compromise as h · 1 · h · · 't f \' . \Th1's article is the first of a. sc ool IS a so ln t e VlCllll y o Another important argument in a sell out of the United States h d d t d\ · · f th favor of the sale is that it will be political stan<!- . with regard to series on the professional schools tU e. un ~trgrafutahe S.ItVItsion fo N e a propaganda victory for the U.S such areas as Hungary and Gel'· comprising Union University, mvers1 Y o e a e o ew By Arn()ld Berkowitz CON Kennedy stated that the Russians, many. He note_d the enthusiasm wllich received its charter in 1873 York in Albany. (Continued from Page 3) along. The last three sophomore classes have been unable to gather enough class members to hold the tt·aclitional tug of war. and W hl' ch is one of the oldest Students are trained for either V ia Rad1\o Free Europe and other of the peoples 1'n those areas fo1· · bl' · · · u·ni'versi'ti'es in the United States. private practice or pu 1c serv1ce. media, will he well informed of the United St8tes and stated his h h d f · t t' · · d · T· he un-l\vel'SI'ty 1's established in T e met o o ms rue ron lS pnn- the source of their badly neede fears that the nuclear test ban, 1 · · 1 d' · f 1 bl ·ead. The sale w'il 1 show t\he 1 h t t' d · the Ox:ford-Cambridge pattern of cipa Iy a cntlca Iscus::;1on o se • t 1e w eat ransac wn, an posSI- d t t t d t a d ·emocrati'c associ·a,tion of inde- ecte cases, s a u es an ma er- world that the U.S. is making ble future deals Will serve to 1 d h 'd f th every effort to reduce Cold War crush their hopes for gaining free- pendent colleges. The Board of ia s, un er t e g.-~;u, a-nee o . e tensions and help the needy peo- dom from the communist oppres- Governors of the University mere- prefessor: I~ add1t1on, the l~w­ ple of the world. Kennedy added sion. How can the U.S. govern- ly exercises an advisory function, yer's .obhgatlo~ bC!th to so~1ety that a refusal to allow the sale ment sympathize with the Hun- encouraging cooperation among· and his professwn 1s emphasized. Certainly the physical outlet that Freshman have known in their midnight rambles around campus must be maintained. Why can't intramural athletics within the class be a substitute for the useless sophomore hunt? Class spirit would be promoted and ex- cess energy would be expended. Possibly this particular solution will not be accepted, but I do be- lieve that a more worthwhile pro- gram can be organized. Patronize Our Advertisers Ti01~ £t;nt~ .. J~wt;lc;l's \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE Govt. Surpius As a sale of government-owned surplus property to the Commun- ist world has never before been made, there ~ cause for a great deal of controversy over Ken- nedy's decision. That the sa:le is economically advantageous in no way proves the wisdom of the move. It would be diffkult to evaluate the deal from a political point of view, as any judgment would represent only one of many schools of thought. The ec0nomic argument centers on the balance of payments issue. The United States is currently running a $3 billion annual deficit in its gold transactions, although the balance of trade is nearly $5 billion in its favor. Every oppor- tunity to reduce the payments deficit should be seized, according to many economists and business- men. would have resulted in a propa- garians while it feeds their ene- ~he v:;trious branch~s. Tohe ~dmin-1 Open Relationship ganda victory for the communists mies f01· financial convenience .lstratr~n of the umversity ls ce~-, Professor Finkelstein, who Those in favor also point out that, and for a meaningless propa- tered ~n .the Chance,Uor, who IS .. serves as advisor to the pre-law by purchasing U.S. wheat, the ganda victory? also President of Umon College. J students; stated that it wasn't any Russians will not be able to in- .A.lbany Law Sc.hool w_a.s found- I easier for a Union graduate _to . . Method~S Denounced d 1851 1 h h t f vest the money for m1htary and e 1n , ear_y m t e. ~s ory o i gain admission into Albany Law industrial purposes and that U.S. Republicans Dirksen and Halleck formal professwnal tramn~g. The 1 School than any other equally allies have been selling wheat to· denounced Kennedy's action for Law. School, together w1th th~: qualified candidate. He stated, communist countries all over the its methods. In May, Kennedy ~ed1cal College, the College. of ·1 however, that there is a more world for some time. sent $2 million to Yugoslavia in Pharmacy and the ~udley 0~- open type of relationship between Many Precedents the form of rnilitary aid and serv-. serv~tory, .are locat~d m the Um- the college and law school for in- As far as trading· with Russia ices; the transaction was declared versity Heights sectwn of Albany. · terested faculty and students. The in general is concerned, there are \secret.\ ln th.e 1963 foreign aid Law School Enlarging • performance record of. U?ion many precedents. Since World bill, Congress had written a stip- The size of the law school is gi•.ad·uates has, he feels, JUStified War II, the U.S. has exported as ulation which flatly prohibited limited; there are approximately this. confide~Ice. . much as $43 million in goods in such action. Democratic Repre- 230 students currently in attend- Fmkelstem also pon~ted out one year. The largest single deal sentative CareY has accused the ance at the institution. Due to the that there are two specmlly en- involved the Soviet purchase of President of withholding from pressures of an increased num dowed scholar~hips which are an entire $17 million textile mill Congress information to which it ber of applicants the freshman awarded to Umon College gradu- While approving the wheat deal, was legally entitled by law while class was expand~d to 120 rnem- ate~ . attending Alba~y Law, in Kennedy made it clear that no the Yugoslav deal was being pre-· hers. The student is offered a additiOn .to cash pnzes. Other futw·e trade policy with the So- pared. The situation with the . th 1 ·~e year program of stud\ scholarships are awarded by the wheat deal is much the same: in \ J T h f It viets' was being set or implied; the 1961 farm bill, Congress de- l.eading to the bachelor of laws Boa1'd of rustees and t e acu Y as a result, the stock market, dared a poli(!y against the sale of degree. There are required cours- of Albany Law School. which had been advancing strong- subsidized fu·m Pl'Oducts to com- cas throughout the three years, and The student activities include Domestic Aspect · ly, showed little reaction to his munist n!ltions. In his decision on elective courses a.re available aft- the Law Review Board, which Economists in Washington also move and has since declined the wheat deal, Kennedy acted er the first year. publishes the Albany Law Review Garnet quar1 classy spira:l! '-' cock; has cor including 4 ! Week\ bono JG•· .d ~~ n ,, To( mention the domestic aspect of slightly. This may be considered without the appl·oval of Congress. The sch~ol is located _in a three twi~e .a year, ~he ~tudent Bar As- the sale. The government spent as an indication that investors As a result, Dirksen has ques- f'itory gr~mte structure m t~e Tu- sociatJon, whiCh IS the student $290 million last year to store Y!light. have ~een hoping for a tioned the relations between the dor-Goth1c style, or so one 1s told h,ody of the school, and 1;he, ~a­ and handle 1.2 billion bushels of !Iberahzed policy for many other Exceutive and the Legislative sec- from the law school catalogue, twnal , Moot Court Competition. price-supported wheat; the sale Jtems. . . . tors of the government. He de- E:owever,_ Albany Law Sc.hool, to- T~ere 1s !llso an hono.rary scholar- will save the Department of Agri-~ Unfavorable CntJc1sms nounced the Fresident for having gether With .Albany Me~lCal Col- ship society, to which members ' ~ • Losl culture an estimated $200 million Unfavorable criticisms of Ken- ignored and disobeyed both writ- lege,. has ,PUI~hased an e1gh~ acre are elected by the faculty at the spread over the next five years. nedy's decision are far more gen- ten and unwritten laws on mat-. tract, whiC~ 1s to be the site of end of the three years. The Univ 'l'omo tie With I game foc scheduled 1:30 on '84 since 1886 ing of 44: introd11cec courtcils a: dalism on edge i.n. tb -- ·-- ters of great signifigance to the a. ne~ res1dence hall. Construe-/ sembled an country. t1~n Is scheduled to start early 1 running at You have room for achievement in data processing-at IBM There are challenging assignments open in more than 190 IBM Sales and Service Offices, coast to coast, with room for achievement in the marketing of information systems and equipment. I To qualify, you should have a bachelor's or advanced degree in Engi- neering, the Sciences, Business Administration, Economics, or the Lib- eral Arts. I You'll find that your opportunities increase with each new system that is designed to meet the growing needs of business, industry, govern- ment, research, education, or space. I wide range of positions Marketing: I The IBM Data Processing Representative is a consultant to his customers. I He demonstrates how customers can achieve bet- ter business management and control through data processing. I Systems Engineering: I IBM Data Processing Systems Engineers are men and women who study customer requirements in depth, devise an approach, define a preferred machine and operational solution, and assist in implementing this solution. I Customer Engineering: I The IBM Customer Engineer is a specialist in precision data processing machines and systems. I He is respon- sible for the installation and maintenance of IBM's vast line of elec- tronic and electromechC!nical equipment. 1 opportunities for advance:ment '-.. IBM, an Equal Opportunity Employer, offers you extensive training in the area of your special interest. I This training continues as you advance along a planned career path leading to professional or man- agerial positions. I We also have comprehensive company-paid benefits plans ... training programs to keep you abreast of developments in your field ... and a tuition-refund plan to give you financial assistance for graduate study. I on-campus interviews See your college placement director to determine when IBM will inter- view on campus, and make an appointment to see our representative. If the interview date is inconvenient for you, please write or call: I A. J. Davies, Branch Manager, I IBM Corporation, 426 Franklin Street, Schenectady 5, New York, FR 7-8521. I IBM will interview November 15. I MOVE AHEAD WITH IBM DATA PROCESSING ® I~ . th1s summer. In past, students 1 M • midable se• Stipulated ~pproval_ . nave had to find apartments in I USlC • • • post a 20 1 Kennedy has stipulated ln h1s tlte Albany area, aided by the Union Coil approval of the deal that the s~hool which released information (Continued from Page 1) day, on Ale whe.at mus~ be sold for use in the on available housing. bmation of Lightnin' Hopkins and .. ~ .1\\ • Homecomin Sov1_et Umon amd the Emopean L t' 1 F bl Hoagy Carmichael if you. can I people. t ll't 1 • th · t oca IOn s avora e . . , , sa e l.es ony\ o er commu~Is m1agme 1t, Oscar Brown, Jr., Joe Mara countnes, particularly Red Chma Dean Andrew V. Clements stat- who introduces a great deal of the Yellow; an~ Cuba, _are ()n a \bla-ck-list\ ~d that the la_vv school has much I contemporary folk feeling into ·• ·; exclusively whtch f~rb1ds all trade of any In c.ommon With ot~er fully ac- his songs, and Kenny. Burrell, the ann sort. This doe~ no.t mean, ho~- creclited s~ho?ls offermg .the same I\ong accepted as one of the top Wormuth, , ever, that Russ1a Will not send Its type of progiam. H.e pomted out, jazz guitarists and now singing· ter than 2! (Continued on Page 6) however, that cer~am advantages in a· very relaxing manner remiri- Rochester's were to be denved from the . · . . '' FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across frorn 'Train Station) ----------- Save On Our Own Olde Village Private Label Spirits ------------ We Deliver Free F~ 4-6846 HOLIDAY BILLIARDS \Corner of Curry Road and Altcnnont Avenue\ - 1 0 M.in from Campus over Cross Town Spur In Rotterdam Shopping Plaza • Special Rates - 10:30 AM -5:00 PM - LADIES PLAY F R E E Rates: .75 per hour for 1 player 1.00 per hour for 2 players 1 :50 per hourfor 3 players 2.00 per h<lur for 4 players open 10:30 A M - 12:00 MIDNIGHT - DAILY --------·--- -C 0 UPON- Worth SOc While Playing at HOLIDAY BILLIARDS Offer Expires Nov. 15, 1963 scho()l's location in the capital Iscent of BI!IY Eckstme.. Add to tests. W• djstrict, including the large num- t!1ese the ms~rumentahsts who leather o bel' of courts, from the highest smg .on· occas101!- such. as Chet against 1Jr jurisdiction to the lowest. The ~ake1, Buddy R1ch, Ch!co Ham- , 1 {., on seven oc Jack's Corner We Specialize in -PIZZA- • STEAK AND SAUSAGE SANDWICHES -Orders To Take Out- FR 7-9898 1555 Van Vranken . ~ ~ Ilton, Les McCann, Mdk Jack- 1 ~ The Gar1 son, Oscar Peterson, Don Elliot, to organizt and Dizzy Gillespie, and you can attack, irnn see how someone could easily get b th bsE lost in the shuffle, or be forced ' \ • b!ck T!.ry to turn to musical pursuits out- 1 ously injur side of jazz to keep bread on the I 1 In the fir! table. It is unfortunate, but it's ,, gained on· done. , t·_ round, anli 1 mere 9~ I Rocheste SUPERIOR I on the Gar BARBER SHOP ~ 1 .. quarter to · itial score. gun sounde 601 NOTT ST. first chaJltE (Across from Nott Gate l Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts ets had h~ the Union the action posite en~ second peri through th yards to ~ drive into next play. •. the uprigh 7-0 lead. Patronize Our Advertisers 1. Aided b:y , Dutchmen · eling 72 y: Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES ~EWEST I • ·.) _, Hutchinsor. ground an• , combinatio- j was climaJ ing strike Art Marsh two point 1 ·' Late in ~-~· bach: Bren ! off a Worr 49. With , ~ it to-ok tl: · plays t[) a • The soph( found Ma: end zone : 'lead with . half. Rite ~ ,· 715 Albany Street Mi Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE·OUT ORDERS - Uni.on Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since .1921) \ '•. Sp I \\- If Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. ·-------------------------------------- ..

1 S, 19~3 Coach Maras announce(~ re- By Rick Loeffler cent~y that Terry Dutton, ca:lled Few, if any_. present students vicinity of of the of New 0 by many the best hack on a Un- can remember that dismal, rainy ion College football team in many afternoon of Oct. 17 • 1959, the years, will miss the remainder last time a Union cross-country of the season. team found themselves ahead of Maras flew out to visit the one- . their opposition at the finish Hne. time Fah·port Central athlete at Led by sophomore standout Dave Genessee Hospital in Rochester Ring, the harriers startled on-· o;t. Monday. The attending phy- lookers by, upsetting the Cata- Slclans have recorrim€nded that mounts of the University of Ver- 'I'erry stay out of school for the mont, last Friday on the home rest of the semester. course. Ring finished first in for either service. is prin- of sel- mater- of the the law• to society ' Dutton suffered a concussion 27:12, a full 1:27 ahead of the during Union's second game of nearest contender, Vermont's the season, against Alfred Oct. Walt Stovall. Junior Captain 5, and has been hospitalized since Gary Morris, sophomore Jan Wer- who pre-law any to bany Law equally stated, a more p between for in- The Union , justified out cially en- are gradu- Gamet quarterback Tommy Hitchcock fades back to loft one of his classy sph-a:ls, as Ray List (69) blocks S()me would-be tacklers. Hitch- f.• cock has completed 14 of 34 aei'ials for 225 yards so far this year . including 4 TD tos15;es. List incidentally shared \Dutchmen of the < Week\ honot's. .~ G•· .dd F E . , ·· rt · · ers -1 ace . ngtneers; then. ner, and sophomore Dave Volk- \Terry had a gol)d day Sunday man finished third, fourth, and and Monday. He seems to be sixth respeCtively . for the Gar- coming along,\ Maras said. net. Another sophomore, Andy \We at the college are relieved Carlson, insured the victory by to learn of his satisfactory finishing tenth. The 24-31 Union prog:ress. Terry is a tremendous victory reversed last season's athlete but, more im:portant an 17-46 loss at the hands of U.V.M. .-<\\\.I.- outstanding individual who ' can. Enthusiastic Sophs Y make a significant contribution Coach Bill Ketz cites an en- l \ to thecollege.inmanyways. We thusiastic group of sophomores, • R~ALL'f DON'T fHINI'-.' HUt\l &Ri ''I~ \\1Ul.r I.IQ{)Q wish him a speedy recovery so strong team leadership on the fl 'L IJJ ~ · that he can retum to his studies.'' part of Gary Morris, and seniors . Dutton, a five year liberal arts- Leroy Michaud and John Sep- B o engineering student, had a B av- ples as the main factors in this ·ooters ver Colnat 3 2 erage during his fir$t two sem- year's revival. An interesting ~ e • ; esters in college. A mathematics sidenote is that Ring had only By Dave Phemister professor once termed him as \an been out for practice a week prior T IT o T d ~· To Compete For ''Shoes'' Law, in 1 s. Other 'l'omorrow Union's Dutchmen travel to Troy to do bat- ideal student, whose willingness t:o the meet due to an infected rave 0 DeOflta ·Q ay to learn was refreshing.'' toe. tle With Rensselaer Polytechnic r.nstitute, in the annual Dutt · t'll d · o 1 t\ th · · · on Is s 1 un er:gomg ex- omp emen mg e varsity W!n, The Union College soccer team· added strength to the game fo.r the Datchmen's Shoes Trophy. The Garnet are amination and treatment, accord- tl)e eager frosh outclassed their scheduled to meet the Engineers, their oldest rivals, at ing to Maras. Blood was found· Verment opponents, winning de- old prov~rb tha~ \the. best offense is a good defense\ Wed- by the faculty include which Review Bar As- student the Na- scholar- members at the 1 :30 on '86 field. The two schools have vied on the gridiron in his spinal column and the doc- .cisively 37-22. Tied for first ~esday, lll down:ng hlghly touted Colgate for the first time . 1886 'th th G t h ldin d . . d · t tors want to make several more were Union's John Moran and m.the 12 year h1story of their meeting by a 3-2 cormt. 'rhe s1n.ce , wr e arne o g a eclSlVe e ge conslS - tests. Neil Chapman, who finished in wm ga e th Be dr 3 d ing of 44 victories, 14 losses, and one tie. The trophy was In the .first two games this 1'5:58 over their shorter three v e au ymen a an· 2 record on the season , introduced by a joint committee of the school's student season, he supplied more than mile course. Rounding out the thus equ~ing last season's total wins, and leaving roo~ courtcils after the 1948 game, which was preceded by van- half of Union's running attack, first five were Ron Cherinko, only for rmprovement on last year's 3 and 6 log dalism on both campuses. Union holds an eleven to three netting 157 yards and 25 carries. Ed Manfred, and Chuck Fenni- Hustle and desire made the,• · The 6-1, 180-pound sophomore mre. The victry evened the difference for the Garnet boot- edge in. the trophy competition. also scored two .touchdowns and freshman record at 1 and 1. ers who did all their scoring ear- to years of soccer experience. caught two passes for a total of Pleased with the victory, Coach ly, and then I'elied on an excep- Prins put Union in command only a host of Yellowjackets as once 59 yards. He was considered an Ketz stated that this is his best tionally strong defense to carry Lwo minutes after the game start- The University of Rochester as- again the Garnet attempted a two outstanding blocking back. freshman team in eight years. them the rest of the way. AI- ed, by faking the opposing de- sembled an unexpectedly potent point conversion. Run Against RPI though Colgate controlled the ball fenseman out of position and running attack and played for- RPI, who Union runs against during the greater part of the then driving the ball into the midable second half defense to Costly Penalty rfroshGridderS tomonow during half time of the last three periods, the frugal cords. The hustling Garnet at- ! f. Lost to Rochester post a 20 to 12 victory over the The Yellowjackets took full ad- · · . football game at Troy, not too U~ion backfield was dented only tack stayed in control through Union College Dutchmen Satur- vantage of a Union penalty on surprisingly enough was the last twice out of the many attempts. most of the opening period and 1) • day, on Alexander Field, before a the ensuing kickoff, and moved. SU~'CUmb J2 6 team which Union beat, prior to Special credit must be given to managed to up the count t~ 2-0 and ··· .\ ·Homecoming Cl'OWd of 4000 from the Garnet 4 to pay-dirt in .._, 1 . • J • ·the D.V.M. win. A factor that fullbacks Ben Blair and Gary at the ten minute mark when you can 1 people. seven _Play:;:. Wormuth passed to Coach Allison's froE!h gridmen should influence tomorrow's meet Br~wn, whose long boots bailed Kasper took a pass off the foot • Jr., Joe Maras' Garnetmen expected end _Dick Rice and h~lfback.Terry travel to Hamilton College today· is RPI's hilly course, the type Um~m out of trouble time and of senior co 7 captain Larry Me- deal. of the y ellowjackets to take almost Bollmg for respective gams . of in search of their first win of which the Garnet harriers are not agam, and to halfbacks Ray Teed, Cray and dr11led it home. The mto ., ·; exclusively to the air lanes via 10 and 1 2 >'ards. From the U~ton the season. Stopped 13·6 last used to. The meet will begin at Derry Kaye, and Bill Bernhard, Dutchmen scored again only 57 Burrell, the arm of quarterback Dave 27 Fred Kirk of Schenectadyp1ck- week by an impressive Wesleyan approximately 2:45. who never stopped hustling from seconds after the start of the t~e ~op Wormuth, who had averaged bet- ed up seve!l yards, followed by sq)lad, the Garnet is hoping to the opening whistle to the final second period when Prins com.- smgi!lg· ter than 25 passes per game in fullback. DICk Cavenaugh, who even its :record at 1-1. The Block-U Society, compos- gun. Teed, a sophomore, has pletely surprised the charging r rerum- ,, Rochester's four previous con- dr~>Ve his way to .the Du~chmen Losing by only one touchdown, ed of all varsity lettermen, has done such a fine job filling in at Colgate goalie by lofting the ball Add to tests. Wormuth heaved the 4 m three consecutive carnes. In team mentor R. Bruce Allison announced the first \Athlete of center halfback foi' the early in- softly over his head and into the who leather only thirteen times the final seconds of the half, Wor- was pleased with the determina- . the Month\ poll of the year will jured Dave Holdridge, that the cage. Kasper suffered a badly Chet against Union, finding the mark muth .sneaked ov~r the Garnet tion displayed by the squad in be undertaken during the next returning Holdridge now finds sprained ankle immediately be- Ham- { on seven occasions, for 71 yards. goal hne to add SIX more yards the clash against Wesleyan, and five days. himself switched to the front- fore this play, and was lost to Jack- ' 1 ,;• to .t.he ~ochester tS;lly. Rathb~ne feels that the score might have There will be only one ballot line. The scrappy Kaye, also a the Garnet for the rest of the Elliot 1~ The G~rnet offense .was una_ble ag~m k1cked the _Pomt, ;an~ Umon been reversed had they had a and that in the library. All are sophomore, appeared to be all contest. Colgate seemed to dom- you ca~ to oi·gamze an effectlVe 1 :unmng trailed 14:12 at mtenm~ston. previous scrimmage. urged to cast their ballot. over the field Wednesday, first inate play from this point to the get / attack, immeasurably handicapped . The Umon Eleven agam proved \We made a lot of mistakes· breaking up Colgate scoring at- final, eun; the Union hooters find- forced , \ • by the absence of star sophomOl:e to. be & weak sec?nd ~alf .tean.1, as individual mistakes that a scrim~ of downs that led tu the eventual tempts deep in Dutchmen terri- ing trouble in retaining the ball out I back Terry Dutton, who was sen- th_ey had t~e. plgskm. SIX times mage would have shown up; miS\ winning score. tory, ap.d then seconds later lead- for any extended length of time. on th- • ously injured in the Alfred game. Without gammg ~ smgle first takes we won't make today.\ Although generally pleased ing Garnet drives toward the op- However , the Garnet defense b ut 't'e 11 In the first half the Dutchmen down. On two occaswns the Dutch- . h d h · 1 · h h' d f d I s .• gained only 51 yards on the men lost the ball on fumbled IndiVIdual Standouts :;~leased with t e squa , Coac posmg goa w1t IS e t passes prove equal to the challenge, • · round, anc m t e secon a a punts after holding the Yellow- Individual standout perform· \The team sti'll needs a lot of d · f h C l t k t l · h d h lf Allison noted, 'to the wings and forwards. turning hack all but two of the mere 9~ jackets within inches of the Gar- ances by tacle Jerry Felton, half Talented Duo many rives 0 t e 0 ga e attac · . Rochester recovered a fumble net goal line. back Rich Clemens, and safety work. Our defensive ends and All Union's scoring was done I Duty in the goal was shared by l J N'l hi hl' ht d h line backers definitely need help, by the hard to stop duo of Ron- Jon Barkman and Bo Dickman, I • .) _, 1 on the Garnet 20 late in the first Scored Again erry 1 es, g lg e t e con- and our offense doesn't seem to nie Prins and Rolf Kasper both both of whom tumed in several , · itial score. After four plays the the contest, Rochester put an- tJes give Wesleyan the extra set our only remedy.\ work and ball control that point a busy afternoon. ?)· quarter to set up the game's in- With five minutes remaining in t~st f?r Union, which saw penal- be jelling. Constant practice is of whom sport the talented foot- II fine saves during the course of j gun sounded the conclusion of the other six points on their half of • • • • • • , , , , , , , , , • • , • , , , , , , , , , , , • , , , , , • , , • , , , , , , • 1 first cha:pter and the Yellowjack- the scoreboard, as Richardson Unitarian Church ets had hammel':ed their way to hauled in a Wormuth pass to cap 1221 Wendell Avenue D&J AUTO s·· .. RVICE DIAMANTE'S the Union four ya1·d line. After a 63 yard Yellowjacket. march. Minister: Wil.liam. Gold . . I. the action was shifted to the op- Dutchmen DeMichele and Soper posite end of the field for the stormed into the Rochester back- second peliod; Richardsc:m crashed field to block Rathbone's conver- through the Ga:rnet line for two sion kick. yards to set up John Denison's 1 th ' 1 · d drive into the end zone on the n . e game s c osmg secon s next play. Chuck Rathbone split Hitchcock tried hard but futilely to find and hit open 1·eceivers. • · the uprights to give Rochester a And thus the battle ended. 7-0 lead. Union sophomore Marc Hurl-· Roared Back but of Belmont, Mass., proved his Aided by a 15 yard penaity, the punting prowess in the game, and . , Dutchmen roared right back, trav- undoubtedly kept the Rochester eling 72 yards i.n 12 plays, using team from increasing their point Hutchinson and Baker on the • margin. The 6-1t 180 pound end ground and the Stevens-Hrdlicka came through w1th boots of 53 • combination in the air. The drive and 70 yards late in the game, J was climaxed by a 15 yard scor- and averaged 46 yards on his five ing strike from Joe Stevens to punts of the day. Art Marshall. The attempt fl)r a Named Dutchmen two point conversion failed. Pat Fantauzzi and Ray List, I •' Late in the second period half- starting guards, have been named ~ b 1 B d H t h' · k d Dutchmen of the Week by the ac' ren an u c mson pic e. Union College Association for off a Wormuth pass on the Union 49. With Hitchcock at the helm their aggressive performances ,-; it took the Dutchmen only five against the University of Roches- . plays to add to their point total. ter in last Saturday's Homecom-. r The sophomores from Syracuse ing football game. ). \ ,, . found Marshall all alone in the OTHER SCORES end zone and Union took a 12-7 Norwich 42 - R.P.I. 7 'lead with 3:20 remaining in the Hamilton 26- Hobart 20 . half. Hitchcock was overcome by Susquehanna H ~ Juanita 6 Midtown Barber Shop 515 UNION STREET .(Next to Union Inn) I i' Specializing in Restyling o' Hairdos Each head is given personal care t -SERMON- HOW TO Blf UNHAPPY WITHOUT REALLY TRYING \Three be the things I shall nover attain: Envy, content, and soHicient champagne. · Three be tke things I ;hell have till I die: laughter and hopa and a sock in the eye'' - Dorothy ·Parker Sunday Service 1 0:30 a.m. our church • We invite you to. visit IJ!i. RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANI< 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6-9644 DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS• SILVERWARE G~ASSWARE DISHES. J. NOGEE & SONS Inc. Successor to 5. MORRIS & SON Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- S<ca-::>OL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4·4429 - 28·34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Fee~turinq: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS - Ce1haring To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 1 Days A Week -- E;njoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNEll GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M .. -3 A.M. ,, .............................. 4 .................... , ... OUR PRICES HAVE NOT CHANGED THEY ARE STILL TC-iE BEST YET! New Student Rates- (2 OR MOREl SHIRTS 20c SUITS -------98c PANTS ------49c Dambrose CHINO PANTS 39c lAUNDERED JACKETS .. --- _49c SWEATERS ___ 49c Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5294 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Natio.nal Bank

>i 6 Friday, October 18, 19.63 Washburn Anticipates Fall L F, C the practical problems involved. • • • • • • Also, a motion was passed to es- ( Continued from Page 1) tablish a committee to recom- to allow Phi Sigma Kappa to mend changes in the college res- have coffee hours during the idence in conjunction with a com- week of December ninth. It was mittee from the Student Council. Fa At theil Washburn Hall, long a fo- cal point of the Union Col- lege campus, is slated to be torn down by the middle of December. The building was doomed three years ago with the construction of Schaffer Library, which replaced N ott Memorial as the college library. Washburn presently stands directly in front of Schaffer Library. Two satellite buildings, con- nected by a colonnade to Schaffer Library, will be erected on the ground where Washburn Hall now stands. Work on these buildings is expected to commence in the sumrr:er of 1964. The road run- ning north and south in front of Schaffer will also be torn up to make way for the new satellite buildings. Site of Activities Formerly housed in Washburn were the office of the Dean of Students; the college radio sta- tion, WRUC; the college news- paper, Concordiensis; the dra- matic group, :vlountl•banks, and their the::Jtre; the offices of stu- dent government; and the book- store. All of these organizations have now been placed in the Old Gym, with the exception of the Mountebanks, which have a new, 200 seat theatre located in Nott Memorial, and the bookstore, which is situated in the basement of Nott Memorial. Bowdoin Dormitories Wheat Sale ••• (Continued from Page 4) own wheat to the black-list coun· tries. By helping Russia, the U.S. will most likely be helping its worst enemies as well; the fact that the first shipment of Canad- . ian wheat purchased by the So- viets was earmarked for direct shipment to Cuba makes this The three-building complex to rather obvious. house Bowdoin College's $3.1 Canada Content million Senior Center, now under construetion, will make possible That Canada is content to feed an enrollnll'nt increase of about Red China and Cuba is no reason 20 per cent, to a new total of for the C .S. to do the same. Can- 925. ada recently dosed a secret wheat The main building, the tower, deal with Japan for 30 million will include living and study bushels for which the Japanese quarters, seminar and conference will pay less than the present rooms, lounges, a small library, world price ($1.79 per bushel). accommodations for lecturers and Because Japan is one of the stead- other visitors, and the Director's iest and largest wheat customers office. A typical residential of the United States, the govern- floor will accommodate sixteen ment might find itself forced to students in four separate four- lower its prices in order to meet man suites. Individual study- the competition; this could result bedrooms, offering privacy for in a $60 million loss in the near uninterrupted reading and study, future. Also, Canada's move shat- will flank living rooms on the tered hopes for increasing U.S. corners, where experiences can farm income by a possible $10() be shared in common. million, as there were extensive A two-story building adjacent crop failures in many parts of the to the sixteen-story tower will world this fall. contain the main dining room, The test ban and the wheat deaL seminar rooms, main lounge, may or may not compose a seri- reading rooms and other facili- ous threat to U.S. security or to ties. The third building will be its position in international af- a Faculty Residence, with apart- fairs. However, it is going to be- ments for the Director and other come increasingly harder to work participants in the program and out compromises and trade agree- a private dining room for use ments with the Soviet Union, and on special occasions by the small at the same time make clear that groups of students, faculty and the U.S. sympathizes with those guests of the College. people under despotic communist Major Innovation domination. If East-West rela- A major innovation of the Sen- tions deteriorate in the next few ior Center Program, which will months, Kennedy will be in a provide seniors with a more mean- worse position, both at home and ingful and rewarding educational ab1·oad, than ever before. It is the experience as the climax of their opinion of many people that the1•e college careers, will be Senior are problems both in and for this Seminars, courses new to the country which have at least as College. Each senior will select much significance as trade issues. one seminar each semester a1;1 one of the four required courses in his program. The seminars, each limited to 15 students, will confront the senior with ideas that are not packaged in the usual academic forms. The seminars will sup· plcment the student's major studies in a way calculated to reinforce his chosen branch of learning with knowledge from the broader world of ideas. Discusses Background Discussing the background of this new program of integrated study and living, President James S. Coles noted that when the Governing Boards of the College decided several years ago to en· large Bowdoin, it was decided that the growth \should be ac- companied by an enhancement of educational opportunity for each student as an individual.\ \As we studied Bowdoin, and as many other psychologists, soc- ial scientists and educators stud- ied many other colleges, it be- came obvious that our greatest gains could be made as we im- proved the total intellectual and social environment of the College· We have long been aware of the interaction of the student with He sits in the classroom no more than 15-odd hours each week. He jg awake and reacting and learn- ·ing-not necessarily what the professor has assigned - more than 100 hours a week. It is unrealistic, President Coles said, \to expect that the influ- ence of what a man might absorb in 15 per cent of his time could carry through the other 85 per cent of his time, if the second atmosphere were alien to the pur- poses of the first.\ DO WHAT CAESAR AND NAPOLEON COULDN'T DO •.. Call home! Hall the fun of doing something great is telling people about it. Moms and dads get a kick out of hearing what's up •.. even when it's nothing im· portant. You'lllike hearing their voices, too. Why not call tonight? Long Distance rates are lower, re· member, every evening after 6:00 and all day Sunday. Extra low for many calls within New York State after 9:00p.m. \®New York Telephone noted that because of its location· Treasurer's Report . Phi Sigma Kappa was ~nlmown • The treasurer reported that t~ many freshmen, and this woul_d two-hundred eighty-seven fresh- ~lve the class . of '67 a.n. add1-' men rushing tickets had been sold twnal opportumty to VISit the at five dollars apiece. The house. . . money realized by their sale will M~. Mrlle: then ,d}scussed the be used to pay the expenses in• rushmg tactics exh1b1ted ?11 cam- curred by the fraternity booklet P:US a~d s~ated that the t1me was published by the IFC and dis- . !Ipe, m view of a closer hate~- ~ributed to all freshmen. The · Ity system~ for h?uses to begm booktet contained the rushing to emphasize then· own strong rules and a short article by each points instead ~f \tearing down\ of the houses on campus. The another house m hopes of look- feasibility of r-eimbursement to· ing more favorable themselves in the houses for expenses of the the eyes of t~e rushees. He asked freshmen meals was also dis- the .coopera~10n from .t~e ho~~e cussed. presidents m emphas1zmg th1s to their brotherhoods. Also, a motion was passed to poll the Gatesmen ••• freshmen on the effectiveness of this year's informal rush. (Continued from Page 1) announc coming TheDa Further Motions Gatesmen, in coordination with \\\ Our world-recognized trademark-\the P&WA eagle\ -has been identified with progress in flight propul· sion for almost four decades, spanning the evolution of power from yesterday's reciprocating engines to today's rockets. Tomorrow will find that same Pratt & Whitney Aircraft eagle carrying men and equipment to the moon and to even more distant reaches of outer space. Engineering achievement of this magnitude is directly traceable to our conviction that basic and applied research is essential to healthy progress. Today's engineers at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft accept no limit- ing criteria. They are moving ahead in many direc- tions to advance our programs in energy conversion for every environment. Our progress on current programs is exciting, for it anticipates the challenges of tomorrow. We are work- ing, for example, in such areas as advanced gas turbines ..• rocket engines •.. fuel cells ... nuclear power-all opening up new avenues of exploration in every field of aerospace, marine and industrial power application. A motion to investigate the the Alumni Council, held an open 'Deasibility of a sub-frosh weekend house in Hale House and gave was defeated after it was brought. tours of the campus every half uut that the same idea had been hour to interested Alumni and investigated last year and they friends of the college. The num.- then found out that Mr. Pearson her of tours led by the Gatemen was against the plan in view of. is approaching the 500 mark. PATRONIZE YOUR ADVERTISERS The breadth of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft programs requires virtually every technical talent .•. requires ambitious young engineers and scientists who can contribute to our advances of the state of the art. Your degree? It can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEM· ICAL and NUCLEAR ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEM- ISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • ENGINEERING SCIENCE or APPLIED MECHANICS. Career boundaries with us can be further extended through a corporation·financed Graduate Education Program. For further information regarding oppor· tunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement officer-or-write to Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford 8, Connecticut. SPECIALISTS IN POWER ••• POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND IN· DUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS. • Pratt & Whitney Aircraft u DIVISION OF UNITRRCRAFT COAP, CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA An E'qual Opporfunlty Employer committee to i in the currie · fects of estal 1 1 dar, i.e. a cb ! duce prof esse j dynamic app1 !.~ ~s, m~~ sti~l ll a rev1s1on m : Huntley ~ about other o .. changes, tha1 ·. tell yet. As : at present, 1 o~ out; the pr ,j continue. into lKRay' ,~Is F1 il [I ·'\ we~k f !! Senes will .P QJ J)evi, a slG •1 story Of th1 : Indian arist1 ,: Ray is Inc ·r·l rec~or. and. 1!. · · ne 1s cons1dE director in 1 acclaimed s· li trilogy. D1 \'\\as somew lshadow. Devi comE Tagore. T 1 around a \that his da1 , [ tion of the ! picture goe1 ,~theme by s \~.this belief the father· ' Westernized 1 Has· Fr1 0 1 The pictt Freudian u ·.worship of r similal' l. mal J to be ,the 11 man's ·sensu ther love. In essen c~weakness a ~ f'dian upper • century, bu there is b~ matter hoVI 'rJGati · s~Centt \ Charles ( y of Political 'v;:. faculty c , \Oct. 29 in I 1 is \Contai\ American .·If Central Eu This fie] Mr. Gati i1 • He fled to 1957 as a 1 . ist-controll' left Hunga strife cam j 1 revolution. i~·r\':li.ana Un. iv 1 ed a Rus: , At the prE : ing towarc ' 'lrhis is his .) Room R :1 rooms, $1U Fii',Freshmen 'I the Board men and 1 , current se 111 ,' ,at the Busi • dates, MO THROUGJ · BER 8, H 8:30A.M.· ~ ~o 4 P.M. Freshm1 second qu payment 4 LATE $5.00 DUl 8, 1963. Beginni 11, Fresh1 present tl meals at

s s 1 s j 1 ·. r y R 1[ ~· involved:, sed toes- , :o recom- lllege res- th a com- t Council• [)rt rted that en fresh- been sold lee. The · sale will ~enses i:n-. ;y bookll}t and dis- .en. The rushing e by each Jus. The iement to es of the also dis- I e e ~ge 1) .tion with dan open and gave lvery half l,lmni and The num.- l Gatemen mark. tS Faculty Rescinds Prexy's Calendar Founded at Union College zn 1877 PRICE 15 CENTS ----~~-----~~--------~--------------~---------------------------~· Two hundred Uruon stu- ! dents looked on as seven fire 1 engines arrived on campus last Wednesday to extin- guish a fi·re in a storage closet of the Psychology De- partment. College officials estimated damage at less than one hundred dollars. Musical Molecules Mark Andrew's Talk The fire evidently started in a sweater hanging on the door of the closet. Passing students no- ticed smoke pouring from under the door and alerted a secretary who called the fire department. An excess of fire equipment soon descended upon the campus due to the faet that any fire at L'nion College is automatically a three- alarm fire to the Schenectady Fire Department. The fire was put out within a few minutes. Door, Ceiling Damaged The conflagration caused dam- age to the door and ceiling of the closet which is used to store equipment for p~ychology experi- ments. In addition, the windows of the closet were broken as fire- men used their axes to get to the blaze. Fire Department officials hypo- thesized that the fire started as a result of heat that had been building up in the closet. Evi- dently, the .fire had been smould- ering for a number of hours be- fore the smoke was noticed at 3:30. The Fire Chief took the charred remains of the sweater to the laboratory for analysis. Buildings in Danger The presence of a number of older buildings on the Union cam- pus was the 1·eason given why three alarms were automatically turned in. Officials fear that a serious blaze starting in one of these , buildings would quickly gut it. The Psychology Building is connected on one side to the Phy- sics Building and on the other to Dean Huntley's residence. Fire walls separate the Psychology De- partment from the other two buildings. ConferenceHeld At Canterbury

Olnnrnr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· tiona! Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc .. College Publishers Representa11vo. 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 6 0 2 Broadway. l<~ntered in the Seht>· nectady Post Office as Se<'Ond Class Mail Matter. Subscription 15c a ropy; $3 a year delivered anywhere in -the Unl ted States. SENIO& BOARD DAVID BERENSON '64 ................. FR 2-6583 ................................... Editor In Chief IVENS LEFLORE '64.. ................... 01 6-9895 ............................. Business Manager SD10N SOBO • 64 ......................... .01 6-9848 ................................ ~1anagmg Editor ~~i!~foo!~~~;:~::~~~~:::::~:~~:~~~::::::::::::::-~.::~:- . .-: .. :·:-::~:-:::_\:~:_::::.-::;::.-;:.~--~-·.:_~:~~~f~}.~jjJ!l~ • JUNJO& l.lOARD Michael Beroon '64 ....... .... .............. ..... ....... .. .................... I\lake- L'p Editor Mark l:ltrom '65 ......................................................................................... Copy Editor Richard Sl .fton '66 ......................................... Assistant Feature Editor ....... ~· Editor Robert Hoffman \66 ...... .. .. ................ . . .. Assistant .-ews E--dl\tor David Volkman • so A:-;si::;tunt NPws ~ William Naufftus '66 . .. ........................................................ li:xchange b~ditor Glen Holzhauer '66 ............................................................. u •••••••••••• Associate Editor Jeffrey Lander '66 .................................... ... Al:lsoriateo Editor Associate Editor ~~~~~r~~~i~~!!:(:<~f6_.:::::: .. ::::::::::.:::::: ... :. ::::.::.::: ::::::::::::::::::: ~=:~~:::: ~~::~~ Mark Obenz\nger \65 ................................................ ~atlonal Advertising MManager · • · · Local AdverHsing anager Richard Resch ljij .................................... ..... · · Manager Robert Klein • 56 .......... ............... .... ................. ....... SubscriPtiOn Robert Bo.!chalt '66 .......................... ..... .. .... Circulation Manager '' • • • Near But Don't Go The Water'' The decision to rescind the Davidson Calendar did not come as a surpise to anyone who has followed the re- cent deliberations of the faculty. It has been evi~ent for the past month that, contrary to the statement in the Union catalogue, the academic year of 1964-1965 will fol- low a calendar exactly the same as this year's. Neither the Davidson Plan, Clark Plan, or 10-10-10 plan ever had a real chance for next year. We wonder if any calendar change will ever have a chance at Union. In the light of the alternatives facing them, the de- cision yesterday by the Fa-culty Council is probably cor- rect. At this time it is too late to make any radical changes for next year. Scheduling classes, athletic contests, and college functions to fit a radically new plan could not be done on such short notice. Of course, the faculty could have made a final decision last spring and work on the scheduling problems could have gone on through the sum- mer and early fall. At the risk of being repetitious,we must once again mention the history of calendar change at Union. After various committees had rejected the 10-10-10 and other plans, President Davidson made his proposal in February 1962. It was originally to go into effect this fall. It has since been postponed to next fall and then deserted alto- gether. Now the 10-10-10 has made its reappearance. We suspect that it will be scheduled for implementation in 1965-1966, then postponed a year and then deserted just like the Davidson Calendar. A poll taken by the Concordiensis this week indicated that a sizable majority of faculty members who answered felt a need for a calendar change. At no time in the past discussion, has a strong argument been made for retaining the status quo. Rather, the usual response of those op- posed to prompt implementation of the Davidson Plan has been that there must be more \high-level thinking\ on the problem, that faculty members must have more t~e ~o revise their courses. The professors who argued 1n this manner are probably now priding themselves on having prevented a hasty, ill-considered measure from being adopted for next year. We think, however, that two years should have been enough time to have explored all possible eventualities that could have arisen under the Davidson Plan. More time was spent talking about the need for high-level thinking than in actually thinking on this high plane. There is only one step for the faculty and administra- tion to take. They must once again start from the begin- ning and evaluate all possible approaches to the calendar. A committee must be established with instructions to re- port a specific program within a set period of time. All faculty members should then be given the opportunity to express themselves on the intellectual desirability of the program, and an analyst should be hired to determine the practical feasibility. of the proposal. The Faculty Council, with all the information before it, should then make a decision which will be binding. We see no reason why this task cannot be completed by the year after next. Numer- ous colleges have made similar shifts; why can't Union? Union University- The Medical School By Robel't S. Hoffman Albany Medical College, located in residential University Heights, Albany, was founded in 1839. At the time 57 students were admit- ted to the first class. Now, 124 years later, the school still limits its acceptance, but has expanded and altered in many ways. Al- though it is part of Union Uni- versity (since 1873), it has not followed Union's policy of main- taining its original architecture and, as a result, is housed in modern buildings. Research facil- ities, and health services have been constantly revised and ex- panded to keep. pace with the mpid evolution of modern medi- cine. It has, however, abided by Union's tradition of presenting a balanced program in the hope of producing men trained to advance into any of the many fields of medicine. It \deplores a system which presumes to prepare a stu- dent for a specific niche in the field of graduate medicine.\ In ac- cordance with this, the school en- com·ages a liberal background; and supports intensive study in the Humanities, as well as trai.n- ing in the sciences. Independent Research In order to allow gifted and eager students to pursue inde- pendent research, the college of- fers opportunities for such work, and even supplies fellowships to- wards their support. A special :program permits students to take a year for basic scientific research after completion of their first 2 years. This can lead to an M.S. The school is prepared to meet the needs of research since it also conducts graduate programs to- wards the Ph.D. in basic medical science. Although research is not dis- couraged, the administration feels that a medical school should em- phasize the need for awareness of human and environmental factors as well as science, and the fact that medicine is an art. In accordance with its attempt to give students a broad back- ground, and thereby prepare them fo1· further study in narrower areas, the college presents an in- tegrated program of basic science and clinical study. After a first year of basic science the .students enter a trimester the third week of which is devoted to clinical training. In the third year stu- dents continue their clinical ex- perience, but also correlate their basic science education to their clinical experience in special aft- ernoon sessions. Third year stu- dents are also offered the oppor- tunity to participate in a program devoted to care for the indigent in which the students assume full responsibility as family doctors, and at the same time are super- vised by trained men. In the fourth year, candidates for the medical degree are given clerk- ships devoted to clinical educa- tion. They are allowed to par- ticipate in a program in which they would live with a general practitioner. Small School Albany is a small school with an entering class of 60. This pro- motes informality and close stu- dent-professor relatienships. The faculty-student ratio is 1/15, and this is lower than most medical schools can maintain. Most of the professors are full time, and this too is an advantage. In addition ot the advantages of a small medical school, Albany provides facilities for clinical training on a large university scale, because it is affiliated with the 700 bed Albany Medical Hos- pital, and the 1000 bed Veterans Hospital, as well as several small- er health institutions, including the New York State Department of Health research labs. Students at Albany also have access to both the Albany Medical College and the New York State Medical libraries. First Psychiatric Ward Albany, which instituted the first psychiatric ward as part of a teaching hospital, has also in- cluded closed circuit T.V. for lab (Continued on Page 3) Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: our more musically inclined young \You can lead a horse to wat- collegians, and finally, very clev- er, but you can't make him er jokes about the \funny suits drink,\ is a trite but unfortun- dem guys\ were wearing. One ately apropos moral to the sto1·y professor and his wife were fore- of Union's convocations. This ed to move to the other side of past Monday evening featured the balcony by the cute panto- the college's first musical per- mines performed by a couple of formance of the year-The Kroll skilled violinists sitting behind Quartet, with pianist Frank Glaz- them. The Brahm's piece saw er _ A highly skilled and sensi- the herd considerably thinned out, tive group, veterans of many since it was preceded by the in- musical years, presented a super- termission, during which our lative performance of Schumann, \quota slips\ were carefully Haydn and Brahms. passed out, on the reasoning that Musicians, especially good ones, \they've been here an hour.\ or anyone asked to appear before A large portion of the concert an audience, rightfully assume ·was ruined for a number of pea- that they will be treated in ac- ple. ,c01·dance with accepted, public · Speculation about the funda- etiquette. mentals of chemistry was inter- ! was appalled at the manner rupted for a couple of hours. in which our guests were l'eceiv- The musicians were rudely in- ed in Memorial Chapel. Most suited. people remained reasonably at- The time of several people and tentive during the first move- the money involved in printing ments of the Schumann, however two or three hundred convoca- a most discordant burst of ap- tion slips were wasted. plause emitted from the balcony The point is that if Union is after the first and third move- to have intellectual and sensitive ments (strangely, not after the convocations, do not force those second). But the animals grew who do not appreaiate such per- restless as the second selection formances to attend, simply be- commenced, and one could hear cause it \may do them some several of the size-thirteen shoes good,\ or it \will spur them on thumping in rhythm, isolated to greater cultural achievement.\ groups of two's and three's dis- I wonder how many graduates of cussing the valence of oxygen, past generations have learned to the rasping snores of a few of (Continued on Page 4) Ca~npus Briefs October 27 is \Devi directed by Satyajit The Community Vesper Service Ray, who in the past has been will be held in Memorial Chapel responsible for the Apu Trilogy. at 7:30 P.M., Sunday. Norman Mr. Ray once again depictn the B. Baxter, Dean of the Biblical decay of Indian aristocracy in a Seminary, New York City, will haunting, dramatic fashion. speak. November 3 October 29 · Charles Gati, member of the A Hillel Supper has been sched- uled for Sunday night at 6:00 Department of Political Science, I>.M, in Hale House. B'nai B'rith will speak at the faculty collo- Girls from Schenectady will be quium on Tuesday in Hale House. present. Please sign up in the His topic is \Containment or Lib- Student Activities Office before eration: American Policy Toward Wednesday, October 30. East Central Europe.\ October 31 November 4 Registration for make up tests Room and Board payments are Friday, October 25, 1963 Friday, Octt History of Jazz: Pianis1 Pres and Bean By Torn Krehbiel Of all the instruments which are used in jazz, the tener saxo- phone is the one which is most closely identified with the idiom. The great number of tenor play- ers is due to the influence of Lester Young and Goleman Hawk- ins, two of the finest musicians to devote themselves to jazz, both of whom played tenor sax. There are other factors which contribute to the popularity of the tenor, but there can be no question of the fact that Young and Hawkins are the main reasons for that horn's popularity. Nicknamed Bean Coleman Hawkins, nicknamed Bean, was born in St. Joseph, Mis- souri in 1904. At the age of 18 . .\ ~he joined l\'1amie '\l::Smlth~s Jazz {L o u n d s, and ulter a year he jpined .Hetche1· r~ en d e r son·::; Band. .tia w kmi:l ::;pent aouut Ltrl J .Y ~:a1·::; w ltn .rieu- Cierson arHl uUl'- rng trus ume ne JJecame tne ru·::;t Jazzman 1..0 at- as a tenor puqer·. ne left Henderson in 11:134 anu wem to England and t;urope lor a 1ew years. !n 193!J, back m the lJmted ~tates, he !'ecorded \.l:lody and ~oul\ .tor .J:(,GA V1ctor. 'l.hls record became his biggest hit and solidly established lum as a maJor jazz name. The \bop revolution\ start- ed soon after that and Hawkins, unlike many of the established jazzmen of the time, supported the new music both in word and aeed. J:ie played with i;nnovators such as J. J. Johnson, Benny Har- ris, and Thelonious Monk. And at one time, LPs of Hawkins played at 40. rpm rather than ~0 J./::! bore many similarities to the work of Charlie Parker. Hawkins has not stopped growing musically and has remained one of the most respected men play- ing the music we commonly call jazz. Hawkins Recognized Hawkins is most easily recog- nized by his f\).11 tone with a rich vibrato. This sound was the only sound for a tenor player to ef- fect, until the emergence of Les- ter Young as an important im- proviser. After Young came Stan Getz and a host of other \cool\ tenormen, and the unself-consci- ously emotional playing of a man like Hawkins went temporarily EXCLUSIVE EURO.PEAN FlLMS! out of vogue. Happily, today ~he big, full tone is no longer consid- ered out, and Hawkins is appre- ciated even more now than he · was in the past. Hawkins Request Respecting Hawkin:'s request that nothing he played over twenty-five years ago be consid- . ered good examples of his work, · we will only mention his more recent recordings. Some of his best LPs have been made in the company of Kenny Burrell, for the two are very much of one mind musically. Two LPs on Prestige's Moodsville series at- test to this: Bluesy Burrell, #29 · and The Hawk Relaxes, #1l;). Crown has put out two Hawkins · L.r'S wmc11 al'e unusual va1ues. • VJl Lnem nawKms lS ~eatureu Wlth .tuau \one:> ana .l:!luc:lle vosta, anu l' c.t tHe pnce \~.L.l:I1S ust, onen on-' camaol~ ~or a::; uttle as <:li$C) the. y .! can nal\ULY be passeu up. .l:ie 1s ;u;:;O J.eac•u·eu on records witn ·. .. ~:.; vv ee n. u:::;::;eu lvan<Uu 1SU-'::: J, \ Pictured al <.LHU lull• JacKson (At!antlc l;:>ltiJ. in Memoril .. tu! u.t tue~e- are qu1te good re- . .... ~:w,uuu::s r., .. ouK tR. 1versu1e 2.4-l:lJ,J. · <-UL'Uulgs anu anyone wno linds · On Man nawruus appeaung wul enJOY~ Quartet, aE crleSe gooa e.11.am:p1eS OI hiS la. ter ~·- er, pianist, worK. ' of chamber Born Later • ion Colleg~ Lester ): uung was born about scribers of !lve yee~rs 1awr than J:iawkms, ~- seum Cone uut .t.taw.Kms was a!l\eady estaP- i fOl'tunate l!Sneu when :r. oung was JUSt start- ,i not acceptE mg to be noticeu by listeners m-: I ' munity in teL·estmg m Jazz. necause o:t 1 which it w~ .naw.K.!n~' promrnence, x oung had ' Quartei; is a uur1cult ume becommg accept- est and m ed. xoung's sound was the ama- 1- sional ch tnesis ot .naw1nns' •. Young play- '!f Monday's eu w1th a ngnt, airy tone )Vltn l fine exam armost no Vll.)l'ato at all; ms was 1 the other ] :umost an euemmate souna. . 1t 1 ion CollegE was thl.s sound wh1cn gave bll'th 1 , little perf w tne ;:,tan IJetz schoOl of ''cocH\ l fine exam \,enunnen mencwned above. Young ~ ance. v.as a me!Odlsc, Hoatmg over tne } Conversr c_ noras, ana 1t was this very ±ree ·(r· plause be1 acutuue that helped Pop _to be. , of a wo;rk l.Oung\s 1mest nour was w1th the ' to the enj• L;ounc .rlas1e .~:Sand of the late 1 It is espe< tmrt1es. During this time he de- ) those who veloped to tne pomt where he ., to want tc was r1ght1y 1•anked with .l:iawkins · had paid as a tenor player. l would cho?se . to suffer f tne records :x.oung made durmg ion's com! thl.s per10d as hiS best work. They r~· ing public. are avallab1e on J!;pic Ll:'s · for the fu1 (.8N oUi:Sl) and on Commodore of this s< t30014). Good examples of r. from the Young may also be heard on the (·~: drome.\ swes he made with Billie Holi- The pro ((.;ontinued on Page ti) Schumann major, Or: quartet o: Now Thru Wed! Complete Shows At 1 a.nd 9 117 Mohawk Ave., ScotiQj Brahms Pi Op. 34. \A WORLD MASTERPIECE\ The Kro but a smo, the occasi biting Sot they impa ually exce ing a mu for all its to be sof1 Brahms Q hear the f which a 1 to achieve ternately first nmvl tifully an dante me rousing r and finalE revealed ~ ed brillian eration t· subject. - N.Y. POST J. M. SYNGE'S \THE PlAYBOY OF THE WESTERN WOR:LD\ Starrilli SIOBHAH McKEilNA EASlMAN COLOR RECORDS OF COMEDY- JAZZ - CLASSICAL AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 For three Generations .... fhose Who l(now. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Mauriue B. Granbart & Sons A comn tation of lack of 1 YOUR w Sl Var E to be given on Tuesday and Wed- due between the dates of Novem- nesday, November & and 6, must her 4 and November 8. Room be completed at the Office of the 1·ent of $80 for double rooms, Registrar before Thursday, Oc- $105 for single rooms for Fresh- tober 31. Students are required men and Upperclassmen and. the to pay a registration fee of $1 Board Fee of $122 for Freshmen unless they present an excuse for for the second half of the current illness from the infirmary or 1emester will be payable at the were absent due to an authorized Business Office during the hours u3 Union Graduates in Graubarf Family'' activity. of 8:30 A.M.-Noon and from 1:00 OJ November 1 P.M. to 4:00 P.M. Freshmen will 166 JAY ST. The third in the current film receive their second quarter meal series wilt be shown in EE 22 at ticket upon payment of their FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY 1 and 9 P.M. Friday. The film bills. !..----------------------- •• c, •• ,

3 1963 Friday, October 25, 1963 Pianist and Quartet: Albany Med. College Concert Reviewed Pearson Discusses Goals Of Admissions Policy (Continued from Page 2) try. As the Albany bulletin con- tends, \Wherever a medical stu- surgery instruction, and a 6 year dent is enrolled his development program with R.P.I. which allows and over-all gain from his medical By Paul Livingston By Paul Sherwin medical students to go through education will be in direct pro- Like a great wave, a tremend~' tive. Otherwise, it is forced to college and medical school in two portion to the amount of effort, ous number of applications for be either semi-selective or not years less time. This is in concentration and interest he dis- today ~he consid- :tY admission are flooding into the selective at all. keeping with modern teaching plays. The story of the success- colleges and universities of the Participation Important methods. ful practitioner reveals that his s 1s appre-l•. than he· , nation during these fall months. Prominent Contributions success is generally unrelated to It is expected that more students The admissions staff of a small. Contrary to popular opinion, the fact that he graduated from ' ! :. request·' over, be consid- f his work, i his more · of his in the for i of one, LPs on · · will seek admittance to under- liberal arts college like Union Albany does not take its fresh- any particular college of medicine. graduate schools in 1967 than desires to select a student body man class from Union and other · Patients revere the .physician be- in any previous year. Represent- that will participate in aU the· less known colleges. Several cause of his abilities and personal . ed in such a vast multitude of' programs offered by the school. prominent small colleges, includ- attributes and seldom know or applicants a 1 •e students with var- Mr. Pearson pointed out that it ing Weslyan, Williams, and Ham- care where he obtained his M.D. d . d b'l' . l . wouldn't be fair to the footbaH. I'!·ton, and three Ivy League. d·egree.\ · ie mterests an a 1 ttles. t 1s · d · 1 f 11 f · I the task of the admissions offi- nlayer to a mit a c ass u 0 · Schools, Columbia, Cornell, and ~~~::::::::::::::::::::=; cer to select from the writers football players because he might Harvard, are well represented. il' I b . . d not be able to make the team. By Whi·'e th1's 1's relat1'vely uru'mpor- and footba 1 heroes, wlog1sts an h k 't ld b · 1 fl l f · d' 'd t e same to en, 1 wou e un- tant, si'nce quali'ty depends on the EASTERN AVE .. mr to e geruus o a mi a 1'ndi'v!'dual student, and not his I ute p ayers, a group o m !VI - f · th · t d 't I uals that reflect the spirit of the 1 f · b h . h' . c ass o genmses ecause e a·lma mater, qual1'ty of the 1'nst1'- series at- #29 · axes, #15. I Hawkins \1 1 va1ues. 'l Wltn institution with w 1ch he IS con- · d' d · f would get a 1storte VIew o soc-. t·ut1'ons to wh1'ch Al'bany students I nected-a class that will flourish Quick Clean Cleaner in its atmosphere and contribute iety. are assigned for internship is significantly to its academic and worthy of note. Significant num- extracurricular life. Dr. Paul W. kurtz of the Un- bers of graduates receive appoint- ion College department of phil- ments to university medical school WASH DRY Questionnaire Sent h h d · 't t' nosp1'tals and leadi'ng muni'c1'pal osop y as accepte an mv1 a 1on Mr Johnathan Pearson, Direc- to become an honorary research and private hospitals. In addition, ·tor of Admissions, related that a adviser to the Institute of Philos- Albany has achieved fame for questionnaire was recently sent ophy, Psychology and Physical outstanding work in several fields, to admissions officers throughout Research in Dehradun, India. and it has been given wide- 25c lOc vos La, anu ' t, onen oo- -~ ~~$c) they ~ up. .tie 1s witn · er sw.e 24l:l), · · ~SU.<:::), l;:>.l.o). 823 EASTERN Ave. the country, .asking whether they The institute is a new venture. spread recognition in medical cir- 1 , . . . consider that their principal I'e- It plans to offer courses le'ading cles, and ranks as one of many Pictured above are Frank Glazer and The Kroll Quartet performing., sponsibility is to t~e college, the to a master's and doctoral de- fine schools throughout the coun- 1------------~ in Memorial Chapel last Monday night. faculty, ~he. al1!ffim, or the stud- ree. --::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::~:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:-:;;:;; good re- ent. This IS mdeed a nebulous lZ-.:::.::::~----------, \ wno :tinus wul enJOY~ nis later i . problem which is quite difficult . On Mond~y mght the Kroll the string group and the piano. to answer one way or the other Quar!et,, assisted by Frank Glaz- The Kroll players exhibited no because there are so many over- er, pJ.amst, pres~nted a program such problems, however, as Mr. lapping questions involved. In ?f chamber music be~ot·e the Un· Glazer showed a tasteful app1•e- t·eplying to the questionnaire, Mr. born about wn. College commumty and sub- ciation of his position with re- Pearson stated that in selecting :a scnbers of the Sc.henectadr Mu- spect to the other four music- student for admission to Union ! seum Concert Ser1es. ~t IS un- ians. Never was this more clear he feels that his first concern s JUSt start- ,\ f01'tunate that the recital was than in the opening work, the' should be for the applicant. Sec- m- !J, not ~ccel?ted by the colleg;e .eon;- Schumann Quintet, a mature ro- ondly, the faculty should be con- of ~ 1 , mu:utY: m the same spmt m mantic work which blended per- sidered. He suggested that if x oung had , w.hich 1t ~as offered, for)h~ Krol_l fectly and flowed poetically. Here both the student and the fa.culty accept- Quartet 1s one of Ameuca s old the pigno is used to double the are satisfied, the college will be s h _ e~t and most thoroughly profes- 'cello and violin parts. This com- as well and possibly the alumni. t e anu ,1- s 1 onal chamber groups, and positional technique imparts the ' . p!ay- !f Monday's recital represented a smooth, flowing sound which, on Persuaswn Important tone )Vltn l fine example of its work. On the other hand, was so noticeably Perhaps the most important ms was i the other hand many of the Un- lacking in the Brahms, a piece function of an admissions officer, souna. . lt 1J icm College students, in their own where, in effect, the piano part is at this time of the year, is to gav:.e .. but~ ,, little performance, pr~sen~ed a set against the strings as a sep- persuade the greate~t number of 01 of cool ·1 fine example of boor1sh 1gnor- arate group. secondary school semors to apply bove. Young ~ ance. For want of further adjectives to his college. For only if the over tne } Conversation, reading, and ap- to describe the virtues of each Admissions Board has a s.uffic- very iree ·~r·· plause between the movements work individually we might mere- iE::ntly large amount of apphcants oop _w be. , of a wo;rk are seldom conducive ly say that the Kroll Quartet to consider, can it be truly selec- w1th the ' to the enjoyment of good music. played surely and, at most times, the late , It is especially unfortun:;~.te that beautifully. We were amused trme he de- ,.t those who were interested enough and somewhat embarrassed by where .he :1 to want to listen, and those who the bewildered expressions on the Hawkins . had paid to listen, were forced players' faces after the intermis- cho~se . to suffer for the rudeness of Un- sion when they noticed that due durmg • ion's compulsory convocation-go- to the expeditious distribution of work. They r,· ing public. We would hope that the convocation credits half of l;pic Ll:'s · for the future, at least, programs their audience had left them. Commodore of this sort will be exempted Their sound interpretation of the amples of f, r from the \convocation-slip sym- Schumann and the consistently eard on the {~: drome.\ sensitive and at times brilliant VAH CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street Billie Holi- ~ The program consisted of the playing of the Haydn hardly ti) Schumann Piano Quintet in E-flat merited such a performance from major, Op. 44, a Haydn string the audience. · quartet of Opus 54, and the Craig Smith turned the pages RECORDS MUSIC 7 and 9 ScotiQj · WALTER NELRY l Brahms Piano Quintet in F .. minor of Mr. Glazer's music gracefully Op. 34. and with a certain flair which The Kroll Quartet has anything bordered upon the virtuosic. but a smooth, mellow soun\}. Yet The program notes which ac- t:he occasionally harsh and often companied the programs, at best JAZZ POPS Student Discounts CLASSICS biting sound, the \edg~:· which a questionable device, were not they impart to the music; is us- up to their usual quality, though, ually exceedingly effective, form- to be sure, they did inform all ing a musical conception which those who were interested that for all its strength still manages the Schumann, which is in E-flat to be soft while lyrical. In the has a second theme which re- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Brahms Quintet we were able to turns in F, which is the dominant hear the full range of expression of B-flat, which is in turn the which a group like this is able dominant of E-flat, which is to achieve. Moving from an al- where it all started. ternately stormy and peaceful This sort of instruction, on first movement, through a beau- this level, can hardly implement tifully and tenderly played an- sound listening; it can only de- dante movement, and into the tract from the enjoyment of mu- rousing rhythms of the scherzo sic by inducing a false sense of and finale, the Quintet's playing confidence thl·ough the substitu- revealed at once both the tortur- tion of a randomly selected ed brilliance and the romantic lib- smattering of half-understood eration to which Brahms was musical and extra-musical truths subject. il!. the place of the hard work A common fault in the presen- and concentration which are tation of a piano quintet is the necessary for real comprehen- lack of p1·oper balance between sion. NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Vah Vranken Avenue I ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTI ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. +4&+•••····+••·····••++++++'+4'++•············ SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! liquor Sto~e 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 Zipp' s Barber Shop Complete Barber Service 1569 Van Vranken Ave. 3 Doors Up From Branch Post Office Hillel Announces: s u p p E R Sunday - 3 November, 1963 6:00 P.M. HALE HOUSE You must sign up and pay $1.00 by Wednesday, 30 Oct. in Student Activities Office AerocJyna mics Combustion Compressible Flow Control Dynamics Digital Computation Analog Computation EDP Systems/Procedures Electronics Electron Optics Fluid Dynamics Heat Transfer 'lydraulics ln?lrumentation Internal Aerodynamics Kinematics Magnetic Circuitry Mechanical Metallurgy Mechanics Metallurgy Physical Chemistry , Physics QualitfGontrol Reliability Servomechanisms Statistical Analysis Structures Systems Analysis Thermodynamics Thermoelectricity Tool Engineering Transistor Circuitry Vehicular Dynamics Vibration Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR .4-8917 RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POL YETHELENE CELLOPHANE DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: SILVERWARE GLASSWARE DISHES J. NOGEE & SONS Inc. Successor to S. MO~RIS & SON Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4·4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. Hamilton United DIVISION OF Standard ·~ircraft On Campus for Interviews Monday, November 11 OPENINGS FOR BS, MS ENGINEERS and SCIENTISTS • Mechanical • Aeronautical • Engineering Physics • Applied Mechanics • Industrial Engineering • Electrical • Metallurgical • Engineering Mechanics • Physics AREAS OF APPLICATION Space and Life Support Systems Engine and Afterburner Controls Air Induction Control Systems Advanced Lightweight Propellers Electron Beam Industrial Machines Ground Support Equipment Electronic Control Systems Overhaul and Repair Programs Bio Science Studies Industrial Valves For interview see your placement officer, or write: SUPERVISOR COLLEGE RELATIONS/ PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT Hamilton United DIVISION OF Standard Rircraft WINDSOR LOCKS, CONNECTICUT An Equal Opportunity Employer

4 Friday, October 25, 1963 . Search Begins: Scholar In Residence By Robert Hoffman The possibility is strong. that by drama critics. The suggestion has April some noted scholar will take been made that a round table dis- up residence for a time on Old cussion might be held among the Union's Grounds. Who this man scholar and several leading critics will be is still .uncertain; the pro- under the auspices of the college. . visions for his residence here are The Purposes even more so, but the wheels of There is much that l'ema.ins , innovation have come this far to be done, however. Be- withol:lt grinding to a hall and fore we becorne committed to this . this bodes well for the .future. The program something of its aims funds necessary for this project should be declared. Though Prof. are alr~ady available. Significant- Wingate 1 s suggestions go some · ly, it will be a joint venture spon- distance towards answering the sored by the Student Council and question of j1,1st what a scho·lar the Board of Trustees. Co-opera- in residence does, much that is tion of this sort, while not unpre- involved in the program re- cedented, is certainly unusual, a·nd mains vague. The basic idea the optimist can gleen from this i:; a eommendable one. The a strong sign of general support fact that it is student orig- for the program. , inated is very important. Origin in Student Council Here, at least, we have one in- The prospect of a Scholar in stance of the Student Council, act- Residence first arose out <if a ing as official representative of Student Council debate over the the student body, initiating action use of its surplus funds. At one· to improve the intellectual envir- . point destined to support the ill- onment of the school. But it is Firemen examine the damages done after the blaze was extinguished. The firemen prepare to leave the campus after extinguishing the blaze. fated Focus program, this surplus just this significance, it is the . resulted from the rise in Student very concept of student initiative, Rugged corrosion-praaf stainless steel. ONLY $4.95 (NO TAX) Men's Nylon Reversable Ski Parkas S • M • L - XL Newest Colors Reg. & Tall Sizes 15.95 - 24.95 I taxes and clearly had to go to- that sbould make us stop and .an- • • • Letters Tu the Editor of Concordiensis: wards some other device for im- alyze the step we are about to For three years I have listened proving the intellectual environ- take. If the program is a good (Continued from Page 2) to poor excuses for required at- ment of the campus. The Scholar one it can open the door to great- tendance at concerts and at in Residence .program was the er student participation in other appreciate classical music through lectures. Each year several hun- most practical of the suggestions areas of academic planning. But forced attendance. I am sure that dred dollars are wasted keeping made for the use of the surplus. if the Scholar in Residence pro- Frank Glazer and the Kroll Quar- attendance records (mostly in Dan Prigmore was made chair- gram is a failure it will be a long tet would be infinitely more will- staff salaries.) This money is man of the committee appointed time before student initiative will ing to perform for an interested wasted because those students by the council to investigate the again gain respect in the eyes of and enthusiastic audience of who are forced to attend do not possibilities of initiating such a of the administration. twenty, then for a rude and dis- benefit the lecturers or the rest program. The job of finding the Potential Granted interested multitude, for whom of the audience. The attendance scholar, arranging the details of If the program can be con- the noise of instruments and the system breeds a petty form of. his residence here, and setting up structed so that the scholar has lack of lights mean only a dis- cheating which very effectively the program is his. He is now in contact with the students and fac- traction from their homework. beats the system. But more im- the process of contacting likely ulty, it can be a valuable addition If our policy of required at- portant is the obligation we, as a candidates for the program. to college life. If the scbolar re- tendance at convocations must re- host, have for the lecturer. I Playwrights Considered sides here for the explicit purpose main, then perhaps, for the bene~ really cannot see anything more The names pre-eminent in dis- of stimulating the students and fit of the more intelligently or- disrespectful than an audience of cussions thus far on the Scholar faculty through direct, informal, TIME CENTER iented performers and audiences, which one-half the students are in Residence program have been contact the program will be a dy- we could run a special convoca- sleeping or readin,g. It is time Harold Pinter and Shelagh De- namic one. The prospect of occa- JEWELERS tion series of Mickey Mouse mov- to face facts: stop this ridiculous laney. Pinter is known as the au- sional meals at fraternity houses, - ies, designed to cope with the con- system and provide an audience thor of several avant-grade plays. followed by informal bull sessions 428 STATE STREET duct of its viewers. for the speakers, not a study hall Miss Delaney is probably best between the scholar and the fra- 334 State St. 1 for the guy who went to Skid- known for her quasi-autobiog- ternity men, while probably strik- SCHENECTADY, N.Y. We gladly Cash your checks Forrest Bowman '66 more the night before. raphical play\A Taste of Honey.\ ing fear into the hearts of much ~ ~~;:;:;:;~;:;:=~~~~;:=;~~~~~~~~~~;;~~~~~ Edward B. Clark '66 John Mazzotta '64 Both are representatives of the of the faculty, makes this pro- ;.:;,.:;,.;:;,;:,;:;,.:;,:;,.:;,;:;,.;:;,~,:;,.:;,.::;,.::;,~,;:,;::;,:;,:;,::;,.;:;,;::,;::;,:;,:;,::;,::;,;:;,;::,.;::;,.:;,.:;,.::;.;:;.,;=;,;:;:,:;,.:;,.::;,;:;,;::,.;::,;::;,:;,:;:, dramatic arts. It was suggested garm all the more vital. • , , , , , ,. ., , , + , , , , , , , , , , , , • , ,. ,. , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,. , ,. , ,. • + by Professor Wingate that schol- · There is, unfortunately, the ares of this nature would be most possibility that the scholar will FAMILY BILLIARDS SPECIAL RATES For Union Students (with ID Cards) 1 - 5 P.M. 7 Days Per Week 1615 UNION STREET (Over KAY'S) DRUGS OPEN 11 :30 A.M. - 12:00 MIDNIGHT Phone 346-9632 -rlRROW~ buttons-down a student of Oxford From prof to frosh knowledge gets around ... and the latest is the new Decton oxford by ARROW. Take Decton, ARROW's name for a shirt blended of 65% Dacron* polyester and 35% cotton, give it an educated new oxford weave and you have the equa- tion for America's most popular wash-and-wear shirt. Authentic University Fashion from the famous button-down collar to the button and pleat in the back, it's tapered to trim body lines. White, colors and stripes to choose from. In long sleeves as illustl'ated $6.95 *DuPont T.M. tor ita po!veater ftber valuable since the Mountebanks use the offer of room, board, and UNION INN probably could present the schol- some amount of cash, as a sort of ar's plays. The scholar, himself, paid vacation during which time could then be approached for in- his chief occupation would be the terpretations and criticisms. Dis- writing of his next play, The only cussions of the production could contact with the college commun- could include well known ity co1tld be at formal convoca- 517 UNIO·N STREET Wally's Diner • Midtown Barber Shop Home Made Pies Good Coffee 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) • Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinca: HOME STYLE IT ALlAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week tions, and the only benefit to the school would be tbe occasional publicity Union might receive, and perhaps a casual reference in some future work to Union Col- lege, Schenectady, or the Ameri- can College .Student. This ty:p~· of program is worth neither the time; nor the effort involved. · We will probably get a Scholar in Residence. If we cannot get one this year then we will surely have one next year. The .results of the program may stand as either another feather in our Gar- net caps or one more mistake for Minerva to turn away f:rom with lost faith in her sons . Fl Eto·s LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Tt•ain Station) Save On Our Own Olde Village Private La.liel Spirits We Deliver Free Fit 4-6846 Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ;/)iamonc/6 ... , Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fi~her •so __ l ·~ il :I Friday, Octc Gri~ On By D Tomorrc will encoL football te to avenge] feat, and\' irrg their 2 mediocrity slated for Field. .,;, :1 Last wed went to Tro· man's ShoeE ing R.P.I. 2£ that statemE ed-ly Union': amassed 21 Trojans ma~ team netted gineer's 18. Dut \j Union's I ij; .,;_· game aggr , their first o plays quartE rected a 6~ 1 ' Engineer e came on a1 Art Marsh:o point via th '\· After re I kick -off, th ~ l tiley to m , u 1 nion hterr 1 :-,· pays t e yards, and· With the yard line, 'J ;.', into the q j !. fu~~~~~feoj ered the fi tingEd Ke: J ·., The succes< seven plays the upright point marg: 1~ 1 R.P.I. so· 1 brought ho: feet on the vantage of \r Dement sea II lines for 9 ;ll Dutt( ! Athie 'r!· tw~e~In?e~ ' total offens ' of-the Mon ~~ ciety. In Ol · I ful p. olls ~ Dutton defe \ back on t ' Dave Ring, '~· omore on tl ( Each star· , coaches fm '· tributions weeks. Dutton, 1 severe con< Fairport,w Maras to I fense this his way to jury in th• student hoc Dutton's w to his even The ste:o Brown has of Coach : fall. Time the key de up enemy ion goal. C of soccer · athlete bas his third s: Dave Ri being one< net distan< cade. Plac first few country n: lad has giv reason to cross-count excellen place in 1 breal>: a lm KN~ Sl Erie I Ph COMPL &I Mo To

1963 stion has dis- the critics college. remains Be- to this its aims Prof. go some the scho·Jar that is re- idea ne. The orig- one in- act- of ng action envir- But it is is the illitiative, and .an- about to s a good to great- in other But :pr<J- be a long ative will eyes <Jf be con- has and fac- addition re- purpose and informal, be a dy- of occa- houses, sessions the fra- strfk- of much this pro- the will and a sort of hich time be the The only commun- convoca- to the and in Col- Ameri- typ(}'of the ~itne;, a Scholar get surely .results stand as our Gar- for with UOR Spirits Friday, October 25, 1963 -Gridders Face Hobart Statesnten Varsity, Frosh ~ Harriers Beaten On Alexander Field By Dave Phemister Tomorrow the Dutchmen· will encounter the Hobart football team in an attempt to avenge last year's 14-6 de- ' feat, and with hopes of push- ing their 2-2 record up from · mediocrity. The contest is slated for 1 :30 on Alexander Field. Last week the Union gridders went to Troy to retain the Dutch- m:;m's Shoes Trophy by smother- ... ~~~ ing R.P.I. 29-6. Statistics support il that statement that it was decid- '.·\ ediy Union'R game. The Garnet . amassed 21 first downs, while the · Trojans made but 3. The Union ·~ team netted 386 yards to the En- · ,, ,, 11 gineer's 18. Dutchmen Score Union's Dutchmen started the ~otnorrow . Last Saturday the Umon College cross-country team · ,, suffered its second loss of the season against a strong RPI squad. RPI, whose rec- ord is now 6 and 2, got four men over their 4.4 miles course before Union's first man finished. The Ketzmen's were saved from a humiliating shutout by the strong .performance of their cap- . tain, Gary Morris, who finished fifth in the meet. Union's lead- ing runner this year, Dave Ring, , pulled up lame after leading the · race for two miles. The final score was 16-47. Rounding out the Union finishers were Dave Volkman, Bill Stoner, and Le~ lViichaud, who finished third and ·fourth respectively. In the freshman meet Union's failure to bring in a high fourth · and fifth man cost them the meet. : Neil Campman set the :pace by 5 Rolf Kasper (left) and another unidentified Garnet boot~:>r (second from right) in action .during a recent contest on Garis Fi~:>ld. ThP squad travels to Hobart tomorrow in an attempt to up tht>ir 4 and 3 slate. ~ game aggressively, scoring on ' their first opportunity. In twelve · plays quarterback Joe Stevens di- . rected a 63 y.al'd march to the 1 ' Engineer end zone. The· score came on an eight yard pass to Art Marshall, who also added a point via the conversion. finishing first with a strong kiek · that overtook the leading RPI Marc Hurlbut (86) showing the fine form with which he has main- runner. Campman's time was the tained ·a 35 yard per try punting average. Hurlbut has several times fastest ever recorded on the RPI this season turned the defensive punting situation into an offensive, freshman course. Although Moran weapon, as he has sent the opposition deep into their own territory finished third and Choranko fin- BeaudrJrnneninGeneva After Defeat At RPI The Union soccer squad will~- ~- --~ - .~.. After receiving the ensuing kick-off, the Engineers tried fu- ished fifth, Union suffered a de- setting up Garnet scores. He is also second for the Dutchmen in re- · feat.. . ceptions, and has .been outstanding at defensive end. The harriers round out their carry a, 4 and 3 ;record into to- the tie and gain the Dutchmen m?rrow s ga;me Wit~ Hobart a_nd their fourth win. dual meets by visiting Colgate to- tiley to move the pigskin into Union territol'Y· But in three \'' plays the R.P.I. team lost three second Engineer touchdown of the Midway in the game's final yards, and were forced to punt. season. · frame, Kessler darted off right day and hosting Hamilton Wed- nesday. \:Ill be lookm&\ to m:;:ure a wm- The RPI game was more close- mug season With a VICtory. ~he ly played than the final score Beaudrymen broke eve:r;. durmg would mdicate. With goalie Jon the past week squeakmg . :past Barkman :picking off 17 saves the Oneonta 3-2 and then ·droppm~ a Union squad held its own for With the ball on the Garnet 32 With spirits high, the Trojans tackle, dodged some would-be. yard line, Tob Hitchcock stepped tightened their defensive unit and tacklers and sprinted 66 yards to Kessler Runs Wild hard fought battle . to arch riVal I three periods, and entered the ;.', into the quarterback slot The forced Union to :punt. The R.P.I. score, putting the contest well out sophomore signal-caller completed eleven then moved into scoring of the Trojan's reach. Another three out of four passes, and co,v- range only to lose the leather. conversion was added again oft' ered the final 38 yards by hit- Bob De Michele slammed into the toe of Marshall. Kessler was Union's outstand- RPI by a 5-2 margin. 1 final chapter deadlocked at 2-2. ing offensive player of the game The contest a we~k ago at Oneh However, the late surge by the as the fleet 5-10, 150-pound half- onta was charactenzed by roug \Engineers proved too great for back netted 116 yards on 11 car- P!ay and several ~cores on pen~lty the harried Garnet defense, who ries for 10.5 yards-a-carry aver- k1cks, s~n;.e commg on que~twn- yielded three times in the quarter age, and scored three touchdowns .. ab!e declswns by the game s of- to see the score run out of reach That performance made the Al- fimals. T~e first half was evenly at 5-2. Prins scored on an assist bany Pharmacy st1,1d,_ent the top played -yn.th the Garnet ~nally from John Fuller, and Giancarlo Garnet rusher going into tomor- penetratmg. the downstateis .~e- Chivallard on a steal from the row's contest. He is allowed to fense late. m t~e second penod RPI goalie to account for the Un- play football at Union because when Senhwr wmg Jack. fj,well ion total. ting Ed Kessler on a screen :pass. Mike Grass and :recovered the re- 1 The successful drive consisted of suiting fun:ible seven plays. Marshall again split Wenger Scores the uprights to give Union a 14 Mter an exchange of punts in ' point margin. . the third quarter, Union end Pete t'l R.P.I. sophomore Rolf Deme~t Wenger added two points to the ! brought home team fans to their Garnet score by- catching R.P.I. feet on the kick-off. Taking ad• quarterback Ken Hoffman in the vantage of some fine blocking, end zone. ~~ Dement scampered along the side- Ed Kessler returned the Tro- , lines for 96 yards to score the jan's free kick to the Engineer's I 31 and four plays later scored on I a five yard off-tackle play. A conversion failed. _. 1 Dutton Named pass attempt for the two-point ; AthleteofMonth • . Terry Dutton, who in less th:;:n r! two games gained 216 yards m : total off en~ ·s.e,. :wa. s named Athlete- ' of-the Month by the Block U So- ~ . ciety. In &ne of the most success- : 1 ful polls 'Qle'ld in recent years, · ·I Dutto. n defeated Gary Brown, full- \ back on the soccer squad and • Dave Ring, ~he outstanding soph- '~ omore on the Cross-Country team. l ! Each star was nominated by the coaches fo1· nis outstanding con- '· tributions to his team in recent . weeks. Dutton now recovering from a severe c~ncussion at his home in Fairport, was counted on by Coach Maras to lead the Dutchman .of- . fense this fa11, He was wep .on his way- to st!lrdom b~fore h1s m- jury in the A'lft:_ed v1ctory. :r\he student body obv10usly recogmzes Dutton's wortli and looks forwa1·d to his eventual return to college. The steady excelence of Gary Brown has impressed ::!-11 follow~rs of Coach Beaudry's hooters this fall. Time after time he makes the key defei1sive play tG break up enemy drives toward the Un- ion goal. Only in his second year of soccer the Wappinger's Falls athlete has gained star stature in his third sport. Dave Ring shows promise of being one of the outstanding Gar- net distance men of the last de- cade. Placing consistently in the first :few places of each cross- country meet~ this long-winded lad has given Coach Wilford Ketz reason to believe that Union cross-country is on its way back Time; £t;ntc; .. ]t;wEie.-s \Your Jeweler Away From 1-lome\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE to excellence. Ring took a first place in the Vermont meet to breal>; a long- Union losing streak. LiARN TO BOXII ~~;;;;;;;;;o;;;;Oiiiiiiii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;, I BE A MASTER OF SELF-DEFENSE. EXPERT . TRAINERS' SECRETS CAN BE VOUI~SI .NO EQUIPMENT NEED~D. FORM A CAMPUS BOXING CLUB AMOIIIG YOUR FRIENDS FOR FUN, SELF·CONFIDEI'ICE AND REAL PHYSI· CAL FITNESS. COMPLETE BROCHURE AND LESSONS ON!< DOLLAR. SEND TO: KNAPP S~RVICE LTD. Erie Blvd. & Liberty St. Phone Dl 6-5900 COMPLETE VOLKSWAGON & IMPORTS PARTS AND SERVICE • Moving Oct. 1st, To 1000 State St. PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, Hempstead, Long Island, New York. SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gale) Spedali~ing in Flat Top Be Ivy League Maircuts Defense Strong Bob DeMichele played his usual inspired defensive game at center line backer, assisted by guards Pat Fantauzzi and Ray List, who solidly plugged the interior line. Ends Wenger and John Soper played superior defensive football, and several times broke into the Trojan backfield to upset plays before they could materialize. For his outstanding efforts De- Michele of Utica became the first Union College football player to win the \Dutchman of the week\ award for the second time this DiMichele Excels The award, given by the Union coaching staff after a careful an- alysis of the game film, is con- sidered the highest that a Union footballer can win. According to coach Joe Maras, it is based strict- ly on \extra effort.\ The 6-0, 190-pound sophomore linebacker was credited with eight tackles during RPI;s 36 plays from the line of scrimmage Sat- urday. Twice he hit an Engineer runner hard enough to cause a fumble, which he recovered both times. Also in the first four games of the season, DeMichele has been credited by the coaching staff with 68 tackles. Union College and Albany Phar- fired .one .orne on an assis rom Junior inside Rolf Kasper, who macy are members of Union Uni- Ronme. Prms. Oneonta came . on had combined with Prins to form versity and Pharmacy does ~ot str.ong m the secol!d half, scormg a double trouble scoring tandam support a football team of 1ts tWlce on pe~altY: klCks, and led .bY will be lost to the squad for the own. a .2-1 margm with only five mm- remainder of the season because Before last week, Kessler had utes left to be :played. The qar- of a pulled ankle ligament suf- been l 'nvolved in only one offen- net )looters rose to the occaswhn, fered in the Colgate game. d placmg constant pressure on t e . sive play. That was in the Alfre opposing defense and forcing Outstandmg .defensem~n Gary game when he caught a 32-yard them into penalties. The rifle Brown was paid fine tribute _by pass from quarterback Tom Hitch- footed Prins lace two direct kicks Garnet coach Bo~ Be.audry, bemg cock for the final touchdown in into the nets one coming within the latter's nommatlon for Tin- Union's 34-20 win over the Sax- the last min~te of play to break ion's Athlete of the Month award. ons. His four TD's rank him sec- ond among Garnet scorers. Other Scores Hobart 3 - Alfred 0 Bowdoin 20 - Williams 0 Susquehanna 40 - Washington and Lee 0 Hamilton 40 - Swarthmore 14 Tonight at 7:00 on the steps of Memorial Chapel there will be a pre-game pep rally preceded by a parade on Lenox and Nott · Streets at 6 :411. All are urged to attend and support the gridders in the manner they deserve. Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULE,VARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES T T T t T t t T t t f T t t Tit t Y T f ¥ f f i' T Y TT'TT f t f f t f f f f f f \t' ¥¥ f DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET •••• + ••• 6 • t a 4 A I t 6 t 6 & 4 A, 4 • + 4 A A 4 4 ,+ + • + • 4 + 4 A 6 6 f A ,I ~ W elt::orne 13at:k Friends! Att~nlion Stud~nts! -- SEND A COPY OF THE ''CONCORDIENSIS'' Home To Your Parents .... OUR PRICES HAVE NOT CHANGED THEY ARE STILL THE BEST YET! The Rate Is Three Dollars Per Year. Fill out the order blank below and Bring or Mail To: -New Student Rates- (2 OR MORE) SHIRTS 20c SUITS -------98c PANTS ------49c Dambrose CHINO PANTS 39c LAUNDERED JACKETS SW·EATERS _- _.:a~•c• Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE-- FR 4-5294 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank Union College Student Activities Office Old Gym Schenectady, N. Y. ----------------- Please Send the Concordiensis for 1 year to: Name ______________________________ ~---------- Addres s ________________________________ _ Check Enclosed ____ _ Cash _____ _ (Check one)

6 Block U Society Completes Plan For Ye·ar~s Activities By Glenn Holzhauer The Block U Society completed plans for this year's activities at a meeting of the society last night. Larry McCrae, president of the Block U, stated that \the basic problem with the group in the past was that it had no . definite direction. It's hoped that the plans drawn up here· tonight will strengthen the Block U by giving it that direc- tion.\ These plans included some former ideas and several new proposals for new programs. The society is now in the midst~·-------------- of raising funds to enable it to award is given to the Union ath- carry through to its objectives. Iete who has contributed the out- The Block U has taken over the distribution of programs at the standing perfo1·mance in a varsity football games. In addition, it is sport during the month. Nomi- almost certain that it will assume nations are made by the various the operation of the concession coaches and then voted on by the stand at the basketball games, student body. and possibly the selling of pro- According to McCrae, heading grams there. the list of new ideas is the at- · Athletic Award Reinstituted tempt to coordinate some type of ~ i I Friday, October 25, 1963 Student Council. Hootenanny (Continued from Page 1) taken because there will be a home lacrosse game with RPI and a State Track Meet at Union on the latter date. Dan Prigmom )Ilade a motio1:1 . . which asked that the Campus and · Plant Committee of the Student Council be permitted to look into any damages to college property · by any members · of the student body. According to Prigmore, the Committee would be empowered, · upon sufficient proof of guilt, to recommend to the Dean of . Students due penalties for such actions. The motion was auto- matically tabled until the next meeting. (Continued from Pag!l 1) form in Memorial Chapel. At the concert, the winners of the Queen Contest and the display contest will be announced. Open parties, from ten until two, will follow the concert • Tickets for the weekend will go on sale November 4. The co$t wiH be $5.50 per couple for b(}th the hootenanny and the concert. Since chairs wiH not be provided at the hootenanny, those who are planning to attend are advised to bring blankets. Schedules related to the elec- tion of Freshman officers are to be posted. The \athlete of the month· program for prospective students Who h ave athletic ability. It is .Dr. Donald H. Andrews, shown here speaking at the Convocation on award\ will be reinstituted. The hoped that they possibly stay over. Tuesday, was ·this year's Danforth Visiting Lecturer. His topic was night at one of the fraternities the correspondence of various apparently diverse events. One exam· and be given a tour of the cam-· }lle of this was the 'Methane Dance,' a musical variation based on the • • • pus before leaving. · :.vibrations of the methane molecule. Dr. Andrews is a professor (Continued from Page 1) Programs foi' Lacrosse Pipers .emeritus at, Johns Hopkins University, of Chemistry and is co-author · The repertoire will feature a Next year, the Block U is hop- great deal of variety. Popular, ing to be able to expand the pro- of the basic chemistry text used at Union. Barber-Shop, semi-popular, and gram for all lacrosse and basket- folk music is scheduled. More ball games to include information on-campus appearances ar·e also on both Union's team and its op- planned. position as well as any informa- Sing at Green Mountain tion that might prove of interest The first off campus engage- to the spectator. ment will be at Green Mountain The Block U was formed in during the middle of November. 1961 to provide a ;means of bring- Traveling to Green Mountain will ing all of the athletic factions. of be all eighteen members: Mike the college into closer uruty. Miller, John Hann, John Kemp, Membership to the society is open John Gourlie, Steve Thompson,· to all letter winners in Union var- Charlie Short, Kevin Acton, Dave sity sports. Anderson, Tom Hitchcock, Bob· The Block u is sponsoring a Riggen, Ken McArthur, Dave 01- · bus to the Union-Williams foot- son, Crosby Swartz, AI Stimmson, ball on November 2nd. Price per Jeff Hedquist, Bob Williamson,· seat will be $1.75. All those in- A! Howard, and Dennis Gordon. terested in taking the bus are Other shows scheduled so far in- · h L M Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing In Italian - American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking 1115 aarrett St. WOOLRICH Nylon Ski Parkas Black and Olive 17-95 326 STITE ST Daily to .5:SG · . · • Tues. & Thur. 'tn• 110 , e lude Skidmore College, Russell asked to contact e1t er arry c- Crae or Steve Hopkins. Sage College, and Trinity Col- lege. They helped make a major advance in medical technology Jazz History (Continued from Page 2) day, who gave him his nickname of Pres (short for The President). Columbia has a numhE'r of these. collected on an LP titled Lady Day (CL 637). Followers Classifit>d Today all tPnor players are classified as followers of either Hawkins or Young, or a combin- ation of both; and usua11y flat- tered to be so.' considered. THE SMART CONTINENTAL LOOK IN GOLD FILLED ONLY $7.95 F.T.l.; TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. EXCITING NEW WAY TO PROCRASTINATE Running out of pencils to sharp- en and roommates to talk to? Try this exciting way to put off study- ing! Gall home! Tell your mom and dad all you're doing (or not doing). They'll love hearing your voice f Long Distance rates are lower every evening after 6:00 and all day Sunday. Extra low for many calls within New York State after 9:00p.m. @New York Telephone a,chievement: A long time ago, it seems now, a plain impera- tive became the best-known motto of IBM: \Think.\ I You may assess the achievement of our company, and of any individual in it, by the same word: \Think.\ I If you are interested in achievement with IBM, ask your college placement officer for our brochures-and for an appointment when the IBM representative is interviewing on campus. I IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer. I If you cannot attend the intervieW, write: I Manager of College Relations, I IBM Corp., 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N.Y. 1 MOVE AHEAD:. SEE IBM®NOV.15, 1963 ... yet there's not an \M. D.\ in the house These six men were members of a team that developed an x-ray system so advanced thac even with exposure to x;radiation reduced by 80%, images come out much sharper on the diagnostician's viewing screen. By bring- ing to the task the unique talents, experience, and educational background of each member, this team of experts has made it possible for radiologists and phy- sicians to do a better job of medical diagnosis. Of these six men from General Electric's X-Ray Department, Milwaukee, four have degrees in engi- neering, one majored in physics and math, and the sixth in economics. Not one was trained primarily in medical science-although, of course, their Depart- ment works closely with the medical profession. Nor did any of them anticipate, when in college, that their major subjects would be put to use in providing improved tools for diagnostic medicine. But they did recognize-as their record shows-that better-than- average performance could qualify them for challeng- ing jobs with a forward-looking company like General Electric. There are hundreds of such teams at General Elec- tric today. Their make-up varies, and almost every field of specialization, technical and non-technical, is rep- resented somewhere in the Company. lhe projects are Just as varied: nose cones for missiles, desaliniza- tion of sea water,computers,or power plants to squeeze more electricity from a pound of coal or a gram of atomic fuel. The more than 36,000 college graduates at General Electric comprise one of the largest and mo·st varied pools of talent in the nation. But the Company's future is, in many ways, wrapped up in people stili' in school and college. As projects increase in size and com- plexity, so will the need for able yoar:1g people. People who demonstrate, through their college record, the best use of their educational opportunities, who know the meaning of excellence, who unders,fand the dif- ferences between specialization and narrowness, breadth and shallowness. Such people, working to- gether, will make up the teams of the future, and be the architects of what we call progress. The team (left to right): jerry E. Rich, Georgetown Col- lege, Ky.,'53; Robert). Mueller, Marquette, '44; William A. Mayer, Univ. of Calif., '47; John P. Kelley, R.P.I., ;47; William C. Waggoner, West Va. Univ., '33, Pratt lnst., '37; Arthur Pruneau, Univ. of Vermont, '52. \!togren Is Our Mosf lmporknf Ptotlvd GENERAL f/j ELECTRIC AF PO p The I and passe( a 1.5 inde ~ ill was ir ommittee Most .. of greed tb.at ! pledging sl Problems a m~nimum : 1 pointed out !proximately :\:freshman· cl i 2.0 index rl \Iter. Dean I 'a 1.3 whicl fhave elimiTI i men. lt wa: :one who a.c : this is usua ,1 a fra terni tl i quently dr< l semestei', tioned that :.jpledge frat' flwill serve 1 them. l\1a: I that the mi .U !!S possible. ~ fact that th i truly inter~ : nities woul' [ at least me dard. Cran · mark be s has includ1 ~ of past f:r1 j is good sta for gmdua Social P Crandall the I.F.C. 1 ~ social prol 1 He propos1 ' on probati' percentag-e irather tha 1\the house ! Pollack sa was not w: tl the I.F.C. rl,· pass a reel this matte l that if a. 1 members b J~· it should b.· i 50% of tl ; 2.0 on a · warning, t bation. If ·lceive a WI • 11em .. ester, : brothers r , following : ~ ·will not more thai · hers fall will g-o · ,~Jess of 'W been issu vision wa! ·' mentioned . scholarsh1J have no VI (Con Out Pla1 B: The Ot -z.ation de1 in outdom pansion p year. Pr! bershi!,l cc twenty 111 forward t ber. The clu ! Schoharie ploys as operatiom dances 'W been helc though n occurred expected be run ii s~ One of of the Ou ski trips. skis and 1 with l'eJl defective. which t:h will put in attern skis fit ' order th: it possibl~ port its 1 it desire~ } terested I'anks. _ (Co

