•1) (( remaining ~ against s not at all . for this : ex- ~ an abun- , indi- Back from ¢Bayh Shares Ideas ~On Peace Struggle StudentBody Set To Hold· Spring Vote By Eric Cohen the Walker,' number The are Chris one man • team, and Sophomore school Birch Bayh, Junior Senator from Indiana, discussed eat Thursday's convocation, \Th.e Quest for Peace in the World Today.\ Because of President Johnson's speech Wednesday night, the Senator decided not to give a talk n \The Problem of Presidential Succession.\ Student elections for class of-·. fleers are now beginning. The pe- titions for class officer.s were due at the Student Activities Office last year, ~ as last • matches Besides are Stev- ~· ilton, Mid- and feels and Ro- foes. ' have been weather. could for!,\ a young of pre- Senator Bayh pointed out that i · the United States and the forces of Communism were locked in a ' <&ostruggle for the minds of men. It is this conflict that, for the present, renders world peace un- attainable. America cannot sub- _,mit to the Communist World, however, solely to attain inter- national harmony, for the \ty- ranny of men wearing t•ed shirts is as intolerable as that of those '\rearing black shirts.\ What is needed, declared Bayh, is peace and liberty. • Vigorous Thought Needed The problems facing America today, being neither simple nor easily solved, requit·e fresh, vig- •orous thought. Quoting Abra- ham Lincoln, Bayh stated that \the dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to t]].e stormy pres- that this , &l'nt.\ The achievement of Amer- be strong- ica's aims for peace and liberty men Man- demands the complete, whole- both of hearted commitment ·of the Am- have rrican people. ~· 6 Bayh asserted that, while great es. military arsenals are still requir- ed to maintain America's ha- tional integrity, it is no longer \ ~on the battlefield that ideologi- cal issues will be settled. In es- sence, to establish her point of P.M. Yiew, America must \sell\ her 2:30 ~~ 11 way of life. To this end, she 3:00 . must vanquish the all-powerful I, :J!lies of Communism: hunger; 2:30 disease, poverty, poor or non- 2:30 existing housing, corrupt and 3:00 11 41 inept governments. 2 :30 Help for the Undeveloped 2:30 The United States is currently 2:30 Iii \('mploying means botp to better 2:30 2:30 fJl 2:30 4:00 2:00 2:30., 2:30 the lot of the undeveloped na- tions and to win them to free- dom. The best of these programs, · ~taccording· to Bayh, is the Peace Corps which helps others help them;elves, and gives a true pic- ture of America to other peo- 2:00 3:00 2:00 It 3:00 1ple. The Food for Peace Pro- gram under which poorly devel- opecl 'countries receive technical assistance and ::>urplus food and grain, is anothe1· of these . plans. \ filln addition, carefully dtrected monetary aid, in conjunction with technical assistance, can serve to strengthen week econ- ~omies and can act as a method of forcing the reformation of 2:00 3:00 2:30 2:00 2:00 t.. 3:00 2:00 (, u corrupt governments. • Samuels Speaks G'At WRUC Fete By AI Nahmias WR.UC N.adio held its annual ~station banquet on Tues., March 23. Guests included Dean Pollock, Herbert Cole of WGY Radio, who was instrumental in the design ·• and construction of the station, and the guest speaker, Mr. Perry Samuels. Mr. .Samuels is the Vice President and General Man- ~------- -~--- U ··N· Pro~rt....... '/1/m, by 2:00P.M. today. Primary elec- e I u- tions will be held Monday. On Tuesday at 11:30 A.M., the Class Will Honor of '66 will meet in EE 22, the Class of '67 in Old Chapel and Anniversary the Class of '68 in Memorial Chapel. A class will not meet if By Henry Ruschmeyer the presidential candidate is un- A commemorative program· opposed. Final elections will be marking the twentieth anniver- held on Monday, April 19. sary of the founding of the United Nations will be held on the Union College campus on Thursday, April 15. The theme of the program is \The United Nations in !:'respective: Prospects After Twenty Years.\ The oc- casion will feature a panel dis- cussion, a sherry party and a dinner followed by a talk. Highlighting the day a panel of six: distinguished men will dis- cuss the program's subject, the future prospects of the United Nations. The panel discussion will take place in the Nott Memorial Theater from 3:00-5:30 P.M. Renowned Panel Petitions Due The petitions for Student Coun- cil Representatives are due IJy 2:00 P.M. on Wednesday, April 21 at the Student Activities Of- fice. Primary elections will be held the next day and final elec- tions on Monday, April 26. On Monday, April 26, at 10:00 P.M., a Student Council caucus will be held for the nominations of Student Body officers. Plat- forms will be presented at the Student Body meeting at 11:30 A.M. on Thursday the 29th. Stu- dent Body elections will be held on Monday, May 3. Eighty Signatures Needed Eighty signatures are required on a petition in order to .place a candidates name on the official primary ballot. Each candidate must present a brief platform which indicates his future goals on his petition. All fraternity men vote be- tween 6:30 and 7:30 P.M. on elec- tion days in their houses. All upper class dormitory residents will vote at the same time in either the fourth-floor lounge of South College or the second•floor lounge of Richmond House. All members of the Class of '68 will WAYNE THOMPSON W. Thompson Selected For St. Andrews Wayne Thompson, a history major and president of Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity, has been se- lected to narticipate in the St. Andrews exchange program. Par- ticipation in the program is one of the highest academic honors that a student may receive at Union. To Study British Views Thompson was chosen on the basis of his academic record, his extracurricular activities, and an interview with ten members of the faculty, administration, and former exchange students. He has outlined a course of study for his year in Scotland which includes courses in modern Euro- pean history and American his- tory from a British standpoint. In addition, he plans to take a course in geography which is not offered at Union and which will enable him to travel throughout the British Isles. He hopes also to tour the Continent. Begun in 1937 Heading the list of the panel mernhers is Professor Frederick Schuman, a Wilson Professor of Political Science at Williams Col- lege, Williamstown, Massachu- setts. Schuman has written two books em fo1•eign affairs: Inter- national Polities and Russia Since 1917. Mr. J. N. deBoullane de Lacoste is Secretary of the French Embassy, Washington, D.C. A member of the United States Mission to the United Na- tions, Mr. A. E. Elemdorf is Ad- visor to Ambassador Stevenson. Anarchel Mohan is an Indian newspaper correspondent and a former member of the Indian Mission to the United Nations. Lawrence Abbott, Profesosr of Economics at Union College, is the author of Quality and Com- petion and Economics in the Mod- ern World. George Holt is the (Continued on Page 5) vote in West College lounge be- The exchange program with tween 5:30 and 7:30 P.M. Non- St. Andrews University owes its residents may vote in the Student success to the similarity of the Activities Office between 1:00 and two institutions in their emphasis 4:30 P.M. on eletcion days. i (Continued on Page 5) Union Hosts Varied Progra~ns Andrew Hacker To Investigate U.S .. Conservatism By William Lasnik Andrew Hacker, associate professor of government at Cornell University, will speak on \Whatever Happened to American Conservatism\ in a convocation Thursday, April 15, at 8:30 P.M. in Memorial Chapel. An informal question and answer session will be con- ducted in Hale House following the speech. Also planned is an informal discussion with stu- dents Friday, April 16, at 9:30 A.M. in E.E. 22. PRICE 15 CENTS Curriculum Committee Recommends Institution Of Three Term Program Nine Ccurse Curriculum Plan Would Replace Semester .System By Mark Kasowitz The Committee on Curricular Affairs submitted its final report on proposed ch.anges in the cun-iculum and academic year of Union College to the F1aculty Co1,1ncil on Tuesday, April 6. This report, which wa·s made public on March 26, is the 1·esuit of nine months of intensive study by the Committee and it sub-committees. The Faculty Council will now study the document and prepa1•e its recommellidations between now and May, after which the Board of Trustees of the college will decide whether to accept the proposed changes or not. The suggested timetable calls for adoption of a new calendar and ·curriculum by September, 1966. Three-Term Year The report contains six basic proposals and four supplementaJ.'Y' resolutions, which are explained in a seventy-four page booklet. The first proposal calls for the institution of a three-term academic cal- endar to replace the current two semester calendar. Each term would be approximately ten weeks long, exclusive of examinations, and would be followed by a vacation. The number of courses required for gmduation would also change, a three-course load per term replacing the current semeste1· credit hour system. Under the new curriculum, a student would have to com])lete a minimum of thirty-six courses, fulfill the require- ments In Comprehensive Education, and satisfy his major field re- quirements, in addition to any other obligations such as physi~l education, con<rocation attendance, and ROTC requirements where applicable, in order to graduate. These requirements would apply to all students entering Union in September, 1966. For students al- ready enrolled, the college would permit them to fulfill graduation requirements under present regulations or to elect the new program. Requirements Altered A new series of courses, listed under the title of Comprehensive Education, would replace the present required courses of English I and History 10 and the other general education requirements as stated in the current catalogue. Each student would be required to take eight term courses in Comprehensive Education, including two terms talten in the freshman year, four Comprehensive Education Options in the sophomore and junior years, and a two term course in the senior year. An area of concentration or a major would consist of a mini- o f 1966 mum of twelve courses and a · maximum of twenty-three courses Class Plans Weekend within the thirty-six course pat- tern, at least eight of which would be beyond the sophomore E t t • t level. The foreign language re- D er atnmen quirement may be dropped at the discretion of the department in which the student is majoring. The Departments of Humanities and Social Studies have indicated that they will include a modern language as a requirement. The class officers of the Class of '66 have announced plans for the 1965 Spring Weekend. The Weekend will extend from April 30 to May 2. The Juniors have obtained an all-star rock 'n roll cast for a Friday night concert in the field- house. The Shhelles who have sold more records then any other female group, head the list of stars. Little Richard, who will also appear, is J.'eturning from a successful Euro}lean tour. U.S. (Gary) Bonds rounds out the fa- mous cast. Worked Since October The Junio1· Class Officers and Class Executive Council have been at work on the Weekend since October. Working on the festivities are: Jack Seifert, President of the Class of '66 and General Chairman of the Week-· end, Skip Eames, publicity and public relations, Bob DiMichele, financial com·dinator and Arnie Katz, advertising and printing organizer. Other Aspects Considered Four supplmentary resolutions are also included in the commit- tee statement. They contain sug- gestions for improving faculty load and honors programs under the new schedule. An appeal is made to the Board of Trustees for greater relleased time allow- ances to those faculty who are Continued from Page 5) Miller Film Sh·own Here By Ted Kreinik This week's movie for Friday evening is \Death of a Sales- man,\ one of Arthur Miller's most renowned plays. Unlike many movies which have been adapted from Broadway shows, \Death of a Salesman\ appears without alteration. March Plays Loman • ager of WPTR Radio and the President of the New York State Broadcasters Association. Relates Own Experience <r. Samuel's talk, which was en- joyed by the guests as well .as the station members; dealt Wlth problems of the radio industry today requirements placed on A specialist in political theory, political sociology, and American government and poli- tks, Hacker received bachelor's degrees from Amherst College, and Oxford University. He received a doctor of philosophy degree from Princeton Univer- sity. Seifert had this to say: \The Class of 1966 officers felt that it was time that Union had a weekend with big names. Con- trary to past thinking on the sub- ject, it is financially feasible. However, not only must we have the support of the entire stu- dent body to make this experi- . ment successful, but the area residents must respond with their support as well!' The theme of the story is uni- versal, taking place, symbolically-, in a drab middle class section of Brooklyn. Willie Loman (Frederic March), the main character, is a salesman who aims for the posi- tion of the \big man\ although throughout his life he is a fail- ure. His petty and selfish disposi- tion is emphasized by his lack of any outgoing love. Occasion- ally, he has tender moments, but otherwise he is the cheap, dis- honest, big talker of the play. Adding to the agony that his wife Linda (Mildred Dunnock) in- curs at seeing his failure are the failures of his two sons, Biff (Kevin McCarthy) and Happy (Cameron Mitchell). ~ candidates looking for jobs in commereial radio. M:r. Samuels interlaced his talk with anecdotes from his own climb to success in • the radio industry. He emphasized the importance of obtaining a job in a small radio station rather than a large t one. A job in a small. station, no matter what the capac1ty, enables a man to see many diversified as- pects of operating a radio sta- t tion. Someone in the employ of ' a large station will not be able to grasp fundamentals as quickly because he will be lost in the shuffle. 41 Samuels also discussed what he (Continued on Page 5) Two of the four members of the New York Chamber S()loists shown as they will appear at a Convocation Tuesday night. I The New York Chamber Solo- concert, which is the last of the ists will present selections from current season. ~liay are Gerald Mozart, Bartok, Beethoven, Sc~u- Tarack, violin; Ynez Lynch, bert, and Brahms at Memonal viola· Alexander Kouguell eel- Chapel Tuesday, A~ril ,13~ at lo; a~d Harriet Wingreen, piano. 8:30. The concert, wh!Ch 1s spon- Non-season subscribers may sored by the Schenectady Mu- obtain tickets at the door. seum-Union College Concert Se- ries, will feature Charles Russo, clarinet soloist. The schedule for the evening: Four to Appear Trio in E fiat Major, K. 498 Mozart Sonata in F Major, Op. 5, No. 1 Formed in 1956, the New York Beethoven ~~~:~erwi~d!~is~eybc~~:J::s a~~ Contrasts .............................. Bartok strings. Four of the eleven mem- Trio in E fiat Major ...... Schubert hers will appear in Tuesday's 1 Trio in A minor, Op. 114 Brahms Leading Figure According to Professor Un- derwood of the Political Science Department, Hacker is one of the leading young political scientists in the country. Professor Hacker has earned research fellowships from the Ford Foundation and the Social Science Research CounciL Listed in \Who's Who in the East/' he is a member of the American Association of Uni- vei·sity Professors and Phi Beta. Kappa. Professor Hacker has writ- ten several books in the field of politics, and has contributed to several periodicals. The gold discs recorded by the Shirelles include, \Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow?\ \Tonite's the Night,' and \Mama Said!' Little Richard is famous for \Good Golly Miss Molly,\ and · \Lucille and currently has a · record on the hit parade. Bonds was skyrocketed to stardom with his tremendous hit, \Quarter to Three.\ The Student Tax Committee is Film Moves accepting applications for the The film contains many emo- positions of Senior Member and tiona] scenes which have excite<! Secretary. Those interested may audiences throughout the coun- sign up with Mrs. Marra in the try. The Saturday Review of Lit- . Student Activities Office. erature remarked that it has an All Sophomores who intend to \undeniable power to move\ and run for a Junior Class Office or the New York Times thought it a Student Council must hand in a \dismally depressing\ picture of Hst of activities and an election life which touches at the very platform to the Student Activi- · heart of reality. It is a truly ties Office by Monday, April 12. modern tragedy; one that is high-

2 Friday April 9, 1965 The Mind's Eye: Dugan: Poe,tic Gantbler At 4:00 P.l\I. 1\h·. Dugan is reading his poems in Hale House lounge. His visit is sponsored by the Student Council and the IDOL. A LAN Dugan is a gad-fly, a free <>nd many- sided poE'tic gambler, a poet whose work arises uut of a bluntly personal point of vew. ln recent years there has been a major shift among younger poets towards a new sub- jectivity - sometimes modest, sometimes in- tensely confessiOnal. The subject-matter of this new school mvariably comes from the expenences of dmly life. Poets like Yeats, Eliot, Stevens and SitweH took such events in order to transmute them into a larger obJective scheme of symbolic and poetic values - the imaginative universe of their work. Shunn.ing the conventional masks that poets had ·set between themselves and their world, Nlr. Dugan, while assuming a less grand role, has made his art one with h1mself, and has accom- plished this without inflating vocabulary or atti- tudes. He capitalizes on a keen instinct for the rhetorical within the commonplace. There is an everpresent sense of the rhythms of natural speech and modern metropolitan life, a balance and antithesis, an impalpable subtlety of form and structural ordering in Mr. Dugan's work. Al- though the corpus of his poetry is weakened by alleg0rie:::; which often lapse into empty and forced rhetoric, the sharp wit that springs nim- bly out of the heat of his Celtic temperment in- fuses the greater part of his poetic output with a highly original vitality. Wit and Irony Mr. Dugan\; ::strongest effects are achieved through n;uckery, invective, :mdden revei'sal and exposm·e. H is a poetry marked by variations in tone, in-an-uut relationships in his imagery, rhe- torical effects that double back on the structure uf what he has written, bald profanity and dudi- cruus il'ony. The ironic movement in one of Mr. Dugan's puems, \On Trading Time and Life for Work\ ( a poem which deals with the making of Christmas and New Year cards), from the idea that the color of une of the cards seems like \Laby-:::; - - -\ to the final romantic image of the company wo1·kiug \like a ferry boa:t on the river\ is witty in its sru:casm and boldness. But if Alan Dugan is a humorist, his is not the reforming humor of the satirist. He is attempting to see things as they are, and understand them in their relation to his own individual consciousness. The naturalness of common speech, the voice of the reporter of everyday events, the wit and sense of irony of the poet are all at Mr. Dugan's se1'Vice in the :::;imple poem, \Cop-Shooting - On a News Photograph\: She just ::shot him, in the News, and who can blame her- He a sitting cop, and she a good, big-hearted wife with a noble flaw: fury. Cops who take their guns home should see this: it can be murder: if the service of the gun had not been home as a persuador, in its blue, effective beauty, she would still be private in her rages, not as public as the bully Achilles, who, when shown the metals of good arms, \at once was moved to use them.\ Plainness and Concreteness In the final lines of \Actual Vision of Morn- ing's Extrusion\ the plainness of Mt:. Dugan's themes his neady clinical imagery, his nuances of phr~sing, run and rhythm are illustr!lt~d. The cast of the mind is hard, yet the deta1l 1s won- derfully ingenious and tender. \Done·!\ said the clocks and gave alarm. Eyes popped into heads as tears amazed. All hair stood out. All moved and rose and took a breath: two gasping voids turned blue with it around the heart. By Paul Sherwin Shocked into teeth and nails and wrapped in winding sheets of skin, all souls walked t() test their creatures in their joints, Chunks and armors as the walking dead, <C~urious as to what the water, partial sun -light, ground and mobile ai-r, combined I'eactively, could leave in the mind. The peprvasive irony of Mr. Dugan'S poems can also slip into self-characterization and self- RCI'l.ltiny. r, an aging, phoney, stale, whoozy, corrupt fl·om unattempted dreams and bad health habits, am confronted: the skunk cabbage generates its fl·ost-thawing fart-gas in New Jersey and the first c1·ocuse·s appear in Rockefeller Center's Channel Gardens: F'nH, it is not so bad at Dugan's adge. Longer Poems· 'The longer more complex poems run to long lines interspersed wi.th shorter S'tructures, and are ·flooded with images, associations, ·scraps .of quotations and conversations (reminiscent of Pound) and suppressed connections. The ba.ck- bone of Mr. Dugan's poetry, ·simple colloquial language, is reinforced by vivid imagery, the ap- pea1•a:nce of a rich and wide-ranging vocabulary and references to Greek mythology. He often takes classic subjeets and infuses them with his Ol\\'n peculiar vitality. :Pe1•haps it is his role as a businessman that ena.llles Dugan to penetrate with su~h ~itter ;:c- t-macy into the urban landscaps. H1·s 1s an Ill- tensely personal verse which captures the vast panorama of modern life, with its great floods o.f p~ople, its varied sights and sounds, its neg- lectEd winos and beggars. It is a strong, secular, honESt b1·and of writing, not fot· the squeamish of syrupy-minded, but for all serious admirers .of poetry. Aid Requested For H. E. L. P. By Ngugi R. E. Ng'ang'a T HERE is a great deal that can be said about the counties's adv-antages provided by the H.E.L.P. pl'ogram at Union College both to the participating foreign students . and to the members of the College commun1t~. Among others the student has the opportumty to ob- serve ~md learn how Amedcans live while i~ one uf theit· institutions, and will go back w1th a better dew of Americans. On the other hand, the A.mel\icans have a chance to learn about othe1· cultures. This, if succe·ssful, is surely one way to bring understanding among men and t~e Iastin~ peace that should follow. Howev:r, certam aspeets of the program, I feel, need a httle more attention in order that the program can be even more successful. The first few weeks of the school year are .the mo&t difficult to handle. The foreign student pas a gr-eat deal to leam, in the least amo~n~ ?f bme available so that his day to day ::;ctivitles c~n begin to take the shape he would hke. That Js, to get rid of the uncertainty .that ~verwhelms him due to the new way of domg thmgs. How well a.nd how qui·ckly the student acquires the basi·c working tools of the American cultural and social system depends mainly upon two factors. First it depends on him, and secondly, on the help h.e gets from ~he member~ of . the college comrnUllity. There 1s ample ev1dence that the first one is well met, but not so for the second 1 I 8- 12 Sweaters or Down to Louis', let us ,go, Let the lager freely flow. Political Scene: Which Way To Turn? By Alon Jeffrey THE REVOLUTIONS OF RISING EXPECTATIONS IN THE NEWLY INDE- pendent nations of the wo.rld can hardly .b~ met by W~stern democracY: as it .exists. Only a true social revolution can cope w1~11 tn~ mate~ral and nonmaten~l desires ~f these nations. During the early days of hiS regime, Fidel <;astrc: often said that c3:p1~ talism killed a man through his stomach b..tt t11at comn:-um~m _k1lle~ a man by taking away his freedom. Yet as we know, the Castro revolutiOn, m Its dnve to achreve real social changes, turned to communism. .t:'M INVESTIGATING- A SOCIETY )F' HOODED ~I G-015\ ~..,.lAst.\ While there do appear to be serious defi- ciencies in the method of a-llocating goods under the pure capitalist system, the modified forms of the Western democracies appeat' to have me·t the desires of the peeple, In the newly free nations, however, the no,tion is current that while a capi- tallst-type system may be alright for the de- veloped states, it won't work .there. Regardless of the validity of this view, the emerging nations have tumed to socialism.. The big question re- mains, democrati-c socialism or communist social- ism? Does Western democracy, as practiced to- day, hold anything better for the individual? Re- cent government actions in the United States and Canada almost force one to answer, \No.\ Free Expression Curtailed That one great value of Western democracy, free expression, i.:; being cm·tailed as much as ever. 'lhe blight of the political system in the 'Cnited States taside from voting prohibitions in certain .of tne more advanced states) has em- balked on anothe1 attempt to restrict exppression of opinion. With l'resident Johnson's blessing, the House Committee on Gn-American Activities is beginning an investigation of the Ku Klux Klan. The right-wing, through its silly little re- act,onaries, the YAF, have screamed bloody mur- der. Don't waste time on the Klan when the reds are hiding under e\\ery bush. The liberals, on the uther hand, whHe not exactly clapping, merely urge restraint. Yet the very society which bo.th of these groups claims it is saving from the other is worthles·s when a man must express only views which are American-whatever in God's name that is. There e.xist sufficient laws against inciting riots and conspiracy to protect the society without giving some governmental body the pow- er to determine what is or is not \American.\ i.\'Iuffled Criticism The situation regal'ding Viet-nam is indeed another example of the constriction of freedom factor. Why? It is because the student does not of expression. The President has recently hinted ask for help? that criticism of current D. S. policy in Viet-nam On the whole, the :Coreign student begins should be muffled by those wishing to speak out, classes with a very vague idea of what i·s going mind you. The very essence of democratic gov- on. He needs S()me kind of guidance. It should crnment is the freedom of expression, the con- be .pointed out that Freshman Orientation, in flict of difl'erinfi, sometimes opposite, views. Yet, which the foreign student participates, means this expression i::s lacking in the Gnited States very li!Jtle to him, The program is designed for today. There is no commitment to freedom, the American students who only need to polish their very commitment which could provide a bright knowledge 0'f life in American College Campuses, light for the new emergeing nations. with Union as a specific case. Thus, for the for- eign student, everything starts right in the mid- There examples serve to indicate that West- dle and is hard to understand. ern democracy really has nothing to offer the Once school begins, the extracurricular and developing nations. The economic systems social activities become the other problems that they have chosen do not preclude a democratic need more attention. As it often happens, the political system. Yet Western democracy does foreign student gets familiar with names like not hold out any great advantages to these na- Skidmore, Russel Sage and the like before the tions. Neither the communist system nor the weekend comes, but when it does arrive he finds Western democratic system appear to hold sig- himself alone in the dormitory or fra-ternity. nificant henefits for the individual. The problems Many students live on campus for a couple of facing Western democracy can, however, be a·l- months or so before they find out where Proc- leviated with a renewed commitment to the prin- tor's Theatre is, or that at Peter Pause one can ciples upon which Western society was founded. get some breakfa·st on Sunday morning. Despite its age, Mills On Liberty is still the These beginning problems are finally solved soundest argument for a democratic system of by the student, but wouldn't it be better if he free expression. A revitalized commitment to got some help during orientation and the first the philosophical arguments presented therein few weeks of classes so that fewer hardships will holds the only hope for the Western world itself be encountered during his adjustments? as well as the developing nations. ~~~--- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~~~------~~--~~~ Coin-op Cleaning 2.00 for 8 I bs. I j 1 2 Sport S flirts or A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere Boulevard Bowl 10 pr. Slacks, etc. D & S at Sheridan Plaza Up Rosa Rd. from Ellis OUR ATTENDANTS DO All THE WORK DAILY 8:30 A.M. - 9 P.M. Saturday Til 6 Dl 6·9866 Clean Clothes Last Longer! (2 OR MORE) pANTs 4 9 c ... s_H_I R_T_S_2_o __ c 1 ------•l SUITS -------98c PANTS ------49c Dambrose JACKETS -----49c SWEATERS -- -49c Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Natio.nal Banlc NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR A.-8917 BUDGET TRAVEL TO and FROM EUROPE BY SHIP (Soulhamplon-LeHavre-Ams!erdam) VIA THE POPULAR s. s. CASTEL FELICE 4 SAILINGS TO EUROPE FROM NEW YORK June 16 and July 8/$175 up August 1P anc/ Sept, 8/$72P up 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES 4 SAILINGS FROM EUROPE June 4 ancl June 27/$12P up August 8 anti August 2P/$175 up S.S. CASTEL FELICE features \big ship\ attractions. Air· conditioned. Delectable Ccm· tinental cuisine. Outdoor swim• ming pool. Comforhble cabins, Deck 1pace galore. Entertain• ment .tnd orientation programs DRIVE - IN For lnfolmr;tlon end ttscrvations see you/ T1ave/ Agent 01 w1ittt to SCHENECTADY TRAVEL BUREAU, INC. 424 Stole St. Phone 377-8506 Agents for all leading Airlines, Steamship, Railroads end cor rental companies. CHOW UP SNACKS TO DINNERS DAILY TO MIDNIGHT AT SCOTIA BRI·DGE ~I Friday, Facuj M1 the \ele· Unions things : this is i1 also fun trains b else can ware wi My came sol sistor th fields ar vast nur and the of both . ing day. all of m these tw. P my unde But E ideas sh thought. possibly \ who do 1 e1·s as ei derlined quently nf Union this grou is apt to get ever students • Principle rection i more rea The s , bedded ii portant t On the 1 tling at able void an answ everyone One i I· ' e just rais1 let alone others. ' not to bo ,. • morrow men of ~ restrial 1: span that time seal '' 9 and man~ the doctri Ill 1 The b I refer w by ·an itil of the fa stand he ties, but then, p1·o· \ i! ceptive in The p brief min: has top:pe The part moment, l plicity. \Love \What \' our enemi j • ~ Dl Enjoy 01 !tali Comfo1 Opp .. Open I Sunda~ RESTAURANl FOUNTAIN ! BAR SUPPLI PDLYETifELE CELLOPifANI DAC~ J. I WHO PJ STATION Ph 28-:

9, 1965 Jeffrey INDE- exists. of capi'\ y taking real ious defi- ods under forms of met the nation'S, a capi- the de- nations re- social- to- Re- and \ o. much as m in the bitions in has em- blessing, Ku Klux little re- ody mur- the reds on the merely both the other only in God's against society the pow- indeed freedom hinted out, gov- the con- ws. Yet, d States the a bright West- the systems does hese na- nor the sig- problems be a·l- prin- founded. still the of to therein itself Friday, April 9, 1965 Faculty Column: t· Prof. Hoffman ~ C·onsiders Our Lack of Love By Prof. T. R. Hoffman M y. FIRST reaction, when asked to write th1s column, was to talk about computers -perh.aps e!llphasizing the way in which the. \electromc bram\ is thrusting itself upon the U':lwn s~ene. .Everyon~ li.kes to talk about tho·se th~n&\s . HI which he rs Interested-and JJesides, this Is Important, as I see it. It's my job, and it's als? fun! As one stu~ent put it, \It's got electric trams beat by a mile!\ Another said \Where else ca~ you play, with $100,000 worth' of hard- ware without gettmg your wrist slapped?\ Like Red Queen My initi~?-I plunge into the compute1· field came some SIX years ago. In an attempt to avoid ,. r· · ·· the mental atrophy a:bout which Prof. Winne expressed concern recently, I became a student again and foUild the subject fascinating. That's the way an engineer's life goes. He can never stand .pat but rather, like the Red Queen, mus.t run to stand still. Ten year's earlier it was the ti·an- sistor that excit.ed my it\\lagination. Today these fields are happily married. Computers contain vast number of transistors and related devices ,_ and the ~xploitatipn of the potential implication~ of both 1s ga.thermg momentum with each pass- ing day. It is interesting to note that almo·st all of my teaching in recent years has been in these two areas; areas that did not even exist in t> my undergraduate days. . But even as I warm to this topic, and the Ideas shapes up, I am slowed by a sobering thou~ht. There !'m: sur:ely some, yerhaps many po-ss1bly the maJonty, m the Umon community \ \\'ho do not regard either transi'Stors ot' comput- el'S as either important or fun. Both of the un- derlined terms are highly subjective. I am fre- rruently reminded that the engineering segment of l!nion is a minority group, and that outside this group the interest in topics dear to my heart is apt to be 'slight. So, even though we seem to get ever-increasing numbers of non-engineering students in the \Programming\ an{f \Computer • Principles\ courses these days, a change of di- rection is indicated in the hope of persuading more readers to finish this article. The seed for a general intere'st topic lies em- ' bedded in the foregoing, however. Wbat is im- portant to everyone? Really important, I mean. On the larg~st scale that micmscopic man, hur- tling at breakneck speek through an unfathom- able void to an unknown destiny, can imagine. If ' an answer to that were forthcoming, maybe everyone would l:)e interested. Bother Not? One is hard-pressed to answer the question e just raised i:n a manner 'satisfactory to oneself, let alone reach any meeting of the minds with others. The easiest way out of the dilemma is not to bother. \Eat drink and be merry, for to- ,. • morrow we die,\ says the bard. But thinking men of all eras, confined to travel on this ter- restrial ball for reasons unknown, living a life ::;pan that is a mere wink of an eye on the eternal time scale, have wondered and philosophized - '' G and many have been brought to a firm belief in the doctrine that I'd like to share with you now. The best statement of the doctrine to which I refer was given some two thr:msand years ago •· , tt by -an itinerant preacher in an outlying province of the far-flung Roman empire. Because of his .stand he was put to death by the civil authori- ties, but amazingly, his ideas live today as then, p1·oviding a way of life for countless re- \ \ eeptive individuals in all corners of the gl(}he. The preacher said many things during his brief ministry, and the book that recounts them has topped the best seller list for a long time. fi The part of his message that concerns u·s at the moment, however, can be stated with stark sim- plicity. \Love one anqthe1·,\ he said. \What'??\ cried the listeners. \How about our enemies, our oppressors, the ta:x collectors, Christ dying for his doctrine of love. the Dean of Students etc., etc. ? How about them? ' \Love them, too\ he said. Small wonder they crucified him for promul- gating such a radical doctrine! The execution should have put an end to the nonsense, hut somehow it persisted. One of the leading standard-bearers was a tentmaker from T.arsus-Baul, by name (in hono1· of Israel's first kmg). Saul was a flamboyant extrovert, impetu- ou·s and stubborn. Whatever he did, he did with all stops pulled out. . We first encounter Saul endeavoring to elim- mate th_ose. follo.wers af ~he dead preacher who were stlll m .evrdence. Like everything he did, he pursued thts ta·sk fervently. He even went to the trouble. of securing official permission to cap- ture and bmd any such followers that he might encounter en route to Damascus. But se>mething h.appened on that trip Saul did a complete emo- tional about-fac~ and became a most a.rdent sup- porter of the slam preacher. He even changed his na:me, so that history knows him as Paul. The thmg that makes this brief sketch of his back- ground pertinent to our discussion is that he was the one who spelled out the attributes of \lo'Ve\ -the love of which the preacher had ·spoken-so that all posterity could understand. Sexual Connotations A semantics problem is inevitable here be- cause, of current misuse of the word \love.\ The rombm.ed efforts of Hollywood, sensation-seeking ma~azmes, James Bond, and a \sophisticated\ society that feels the need for superlatives at all times (e.g. \I'd love to come over for a cup of coffee,\ or \I love that dress!\) have produced a monumental confusion. One has .a feeling that a sexual connotation is often involved like with the birds, the bees and (in Boston)' the beans, ~ut beyond that primitive instinct the situation IS hazy. Said Paul: \Love is patient and kind, not jealous or boastful not arrogant or l'Ude: Love does not insist on its own way; it is not irrit- able t~ ;rese~tful. It. does not rejoice at wrong, but reJOices m the nght. Love bears all things be~ieves all things, hopes all things, endures ali thmgs. Love never ends.\ He concluded his l'e- marks wit~ the observa:tion that \faith hope and love ab1de, but the greatest of these is love.\ ~ot a Pretty Pictu1·e What has been the reaction of the world to this dictrine of love? It often seems that we seek in vain for evidence that the world as a whole, or in fact any segment thereof, is follow- ing this path to even the slightest degree. On today's slate. hot and cold wars and rumor's of wars are everywhere. Sukarno prep-ares to sand- bag Malaysia. Syria and Israel (the preacher's own home territory) stand poised, each with a dagger at the other's throat. Viet Nam appears to present an untenable situation from any view- point. The mastermind:s of the Kremlin play their deadly chess game with Peking, the stakes being nothing less than the world itself. Closer to home, racial tension erupts into violence in Alabama. A white minister is clubbed to death by white men because he speaks out for equal rights for Negroes. :Malcolm X and John F. Ken- nedy succumb to assassins' bullets. It's not a pretty picture, and it seem to get worse as time goes on. An ominous cloud of a different nature also begins to loom above the horizon. It may just be possible that an old-timer named Malthus had a good point after all. Statisticians, now able to shuffle more numbers faster than ever ·before with the aid of computers (you knew I'd bring them up again, didn't you?), inform us that if t~e birthrate continues unchecked, and if we con- ~mue .to stretch t~e natural life span by conquer- mg disease, and If we somehow avoid a nuclear holocaust, it won't be long before there won't be enough room for the children of men on this speck of cosmic dust that we inhabit. Hurry up Apollo! If we aren't ready to follow the trail~ blazed by countless science fiction writers and ~olonize remote planets, there'll be a bigger log Jam than 1965's 200 odd computer users cause in Union's too-small computer room! Possibilities for Peace But there i's a silver lining and we don't have to look too hard to find it either. The doctrine of love is ~!ways on display in certain quarters. Names like Mahatma Gandhi, Albert Schweitzer and Helen Keller come to mind. The widows of Lee Harvey Oswald and the policeman he killed are cared for by people who never heard of them before ~hat fat~ful day in Dallas. In fact, in every disaster, . hke th_e Alaskan earthquake, man comes to the aid of his fellow man with alacrity. John F. Kennedy's Peace Corps makes friend·s on a person-to-p~rson level where politicians fear to tread. American students and faculty mem- bers work to help Nasser's unfriendly Arab world develop, and they aJ:e a-ccepted, respected (maybe even loved?) the1·e. Union sponsors the HELP pla1,1 for the 17th year. Mi'ss America 1965 ~·ad1ant at her coronation, proclaims he~ belief m the preacher's message as the most important thing in her life. So it ~eems tl~a;t we do love one another un- der certam cond1tions. Why not broaden the base? And what better focal point than our own Small Balanced College? It may be later than we think, but Ws never too late-we hruve that o~ the same god authority. Each individual makes Jus ovn; decisions in this matter-the preacher wants 1t that way-but the f-ormula is simple and clear. And as ~or the second problem-4;he one about the populatwn explosion-just have faith in the capab~lities o~ those twin forces available to man for hrs own Improvement, Science and Technol- ogy. Whfltever has to be done will be done if we are given the chance. If the doctrine of love can enable mankind to live in harmony the world of te>mon·ow will be a thing of beauty just like the New York World'S Fair predicts! ' Man, this is really important!! When do we start? 3 Talented Mayor Hosts Fly-Boys By J. B. Loewenstein 0 ~ MONDAY, March 29, 1965, a day which m no way deserves to live (either in in- famy or otherwise), the City of New York imposed its hospitality on the two recently suc- cessful astronauts, Grissom and Young. Grissom who ?nee remarked that he would prefer to jour- ney 1-11 outer-s·pace to a July Fourth Week-end dearly placed a visit to New York in a poor third place. He stated this to Mayor Robert Wagner who was unable to recall whether July Fourth is celebrated on May sixth or seventh. The day's festivitie·s began with what every astronaut looks forward to-speeches. Everyone from the stt·eet-cleaners to the Mayor (in de- scending order of lQ) had something to say. Wagner once again proved to the City he loves what an incorrigtbly eloquent ma.n he would be if he were not tongue-tied and semi-literate. After the rain-soaked ceremony, the digni- taries escorted the astronauts up-town on a tra- ditional ticker-tape parade (which many claim is directly descended from the old Indian custom Grissom and Young: What were they doing up there all alone? • ... of running the gauntlet). Another story has it that the parade dates back to Aaron Bun's dar- ing Alexander Hamilton to ride through the stree~s while being bombarded by the populace. Hamilton prefered dueling but, after the results of this, the next man Burr c·hallenged took his dare and now lies in a grave beside Hamilton the first victim of New York hospitality. ' The ticker-tape p-arade 1·eached its greatest glory under the direction of New York's most renO'Wned welc()mer, Grover Whalen. Whalen in the course of his career, welcomed such notables as Charles Lindbergh and Jesse Owen with highly emotional displays, The Grissom- Young parade was, however, like everything else in the Wagner administration, a collossal \bomb.\ ~ ,witnessed the ceremony from the awkward P?Sition of, on the one hand, keeping my eyes on Sixth Avenue and, on the other, trying to push my way under the awning of Radio City. The first shock I had was in not seeing a single piece of ticker-tape. Actually I wasn't able to tell what kin~ of paper was being used until a sopping strip of nerw'spaper splashed across my face just in time to keep me from seeing what I had waited half an ~our to see. However, despite the fact th~t I ~ssed the astronauts, I was not disap- pomted m that I got an excellent view of Robert Wagner picking his nose. That made it all worth while. I hOO: also hoped to give my thoughts to Gabe Pressman but he was further down-town. Thi's did not have me so disgruntled as did a heavy-set (oh, let's be honest, he was fat) gentle- man who was wearing a Goldwater button. He demanded to know \what those two were really doing up there all alone.\ .----------,1 The GALLEY At this I found myself unable to rationalize my inactivity and returned to the public library from which I never should have wandered . FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE 1735 Van Vranken Avenue Phone 346-1 251 LARGEST IN TOWN 15c HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15c <with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS --- ___ - - ______________ 20c French Fries _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 12c Thick Shakes ___________________ 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET :J.)iamonc£ ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 ll EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE Amazing new liquid plastic coating used on all types of sur- faces interior or extel'ior. Eliminates waxing when applied on Asphalt Tile, Vinyl, Linoleum, Vinyl Asbestos, Hard Wood, and Furniture. Completely eliminates painting when applied to Wood, Metal, or Concrete surfaces. This finish is also recom- mended for boats and automobiles. NO COMPETITION As these are exclusive formulas in demand by all businesses, industry and homes. No franchise fee. Minimum investment-- $300. Maximum investment--$7,000. Investment is secured by inventory. Factot·y trained personnel will help set up your business. For complete details and descriptive literature write: CHEM-PLASTICS & PAINT CORP. 18'28 Locust St. Louis 3, Mo.

4 u>\l>llD IN ~Id'·~ ~'.;.~···~ Olnurnr 17 1( ~~; 95 !ltrnBta a~ ... ~ .. t':-~ O\'\·:., ... !'·<:j '0,~L~t~ •:v<cwJ>'~· . Publlshed Fridays during the scllool Eldltoria:l Office, Old Gym, Union year by the Student Body of Union College. Publication Office. Sclle- College, Schenectady, N, Y, Na- nectady Printing Company, 502 tiona! Adve~tising Representative: Broadway, Entered in the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class National Advertising Service, Inc., Mall Matter. Subscription 16c a College Publishers Representative, copy: U a year delivered anywhere 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. In the United States. SE!'(IOR BOARD BARRY NI-:\V~IAX 'tl7 .. 377-9R84 . .. .. .... ... .. Editor-in-Chief JEFFHEY SPECTOR '66 . 3 77-9884 . .. ................. Business Manager RICHARD SIFTON '66.... . .... 3 46-!1730 ............. .Managing Editor MARK KASOWITZ '67.. . .. ... . .. ......................... News Editor ROBERT STOLZ!li~HU 'r.i...... . . ........... Feature Editor ANDY COLR '67........... . . . .. .......................... Sports Editor PAUL SHERWIN '67...... .......... ............ ........ .. ...................... Literary Editor ARNOLD KATZ '66...... .... ....... . ............................. Consulting Editor MATTHEW KATZ '67....... . ....................... Page Editor HENHY FERGlci\ON '50 ... .. ........ l•'arulty Advisor Govern111ent Helps ... No legislation granting broad aid for the nation's ele- mentary and secondary schools has ever passed the Con- gress. In 1960 President Kennedy's sweeping program was smothered in the House Rules Committee after win- ning support in both houses. Again, in 1961, a similar bill was extinguished by the House. In both instances the crucial issue was the Church-State conflict. Today, another education bill is before the Senate. Its failure there will cast a forboding shadow upon the future of education in America, for state governments have demonstrated in countless instances that they are in- capable of providing the funds necessary for quality edu- cation in a growing society. The present proposal would distribute $1.3 billion to the states as aid to children. from poverty stricken areas. It would provide supplemental education centers for adults, free text books, counseling services and mobile units, with private schools sharing in the benefits. The purpose of the proposed measure is not to favor the private interest over the public, or to give support to a particular, favored religion. On the contrary, its sole purpose is to help educate the people of this country by striking out toward equal schooling for all children, re- gardless of their economic background, place of residence, or religious demands. The Church-State issue is not strong enough in this case to warrant the bill's defeat. The needs of the na- tion's schools arE' strong enough to necessitate its passage. • • • and Hinders There is hardly a better example of legislative mis- direction than §3002 of New York's Education Law. This is the Loyalty Oath, perpetrated in 194 7 with the noble purpose of safeguarding the \American Way\ in all tax exempt state schools. The State Legislature, which on occasion has done fine things for education, put a blight on academic freedom by prescribing in this statute that all teachers swear to \support the Constitution of the United States of America and of the State of New York ... \ It is a sad comment on the \:progressiveness\ of our state that this benighted law has not even been modified during nearly two decades since its enactment. In recent weeks the issue again came to fore when a Professor at Brooklyn College abjured his oath upon re- alizing that it conflicted with his \moral and professional obligations as a teacher.\ In his letter of recission to President Harry Gideonse who spoke so inspiringly about freedom only a few weeks ago at Union, Dr. Robert Sitton, late of the Brooklyn Philosophy Department, made the following points: ~ \Loyalty oaths are ineffective since a communist 'oent on overthrowing the gc)Vernment would not hesitate to lie. •· \The oaths are unconstitutional since they restrict right of free speech. . . _ ~ \They are an invasion of privacy since they restrict the free exercioe of thought by limiting what a man may say in public.\ Most important, however is that education is ham- pered by these oaths \since professors are forced to sign them when they know it is not right to do so.\ :Etvery professor teaching at Union has signed this oath, and though it may seem a trivial matter, it stands as a solid precedent for blunt and arbitrary governmental suppres- sion of thought and study. The danger of this statute is more clear than the threat of communism on campus, and it is most assuredly more present. Crossing the Line Hamilton College has finally crossed the line. It is officially engaged to be married. But here in the Mohawk Vale, Union still stands alone and unwed - neither co- ordinate nor co-ed. Back in 1795 when women's rights were as unheard of as civil rights, it was only natural to start a small men's school. As always, however, it seems that around 1860 Union slipped off the bandwagon and missed the boat on the burgeoning agitation to give the vote to the girls. Thus, in 1965 we have made as little progress in integrating sexually as we have racially, which is hardly a prideful accomplishment. The cause is not only lost, it is nonexistent. Storms of agitation will not stir o_ur sleepy tradition, and any movement toward co-education at Union would be as ef- fective as a movement to demolish that monstrous round building. n., .• , ..•. ,,,, .••...••... ,,,,._.~ ... --,. ,,,,,,,,., .»r:- ,..,... E. ...._ L,..;oV THE F'Ac::uLT'Y -5fvOENT RA'Tio :ru~\l 6£FaRE Vf1C..A1iol'fS\ ,4tNLtif.; tli Letters to the Editor Critic Criticized To the Editor of Coneordiensis: ~y q!!alifications for writing this artlcle-13 years of string bass, 6 _years of piano, 2 years of percussion, 2 years of guitar and experience in full orche~tras bands, ja.zz and folk groups. ' . I was very shocked upon read- mg Mr. Howe's review of the Alban~ Symphony Or~hestra con- cert given Tuesday night, March 16. I do not believe that the article was fair, nor did it report the truth; indeed, I think that there was :much omitted First of all, the A:lb~ny Sym- phony is the Albany Symphony. If one had gone with the inten- tion of hearing the Union-Skid- more 01·chestra, the \songs of praise\ would have been rather ~oolish; the group that ]Ierformed t:; ~n ensemble of ]>rofesisonal mus1cmns. And hud this been the Boston Symphony, the seats would have been $5 to $10 cer- tainly not open to the g~neral public (I am also curious to know since he does make the compari- son, if Mr. Howe has ever heard the Boston Symphony in con- cert.) Secondly, I don't believe that it's within the power of a college student, such as Mr. Howe, to adjudicate such a performance. Not only, to me, is Mr. Howe's experience in the musical world rather questionable, but I think that his opinions were rather false, bigoted, and slanderous. Perhaps there were mistakes, perhaps; I'm sure that even the Boston Symphony makes them. Yet, even so, music is an art. It not only expresses the thoughts emotions, and talent of the com~ .poser, but also those of the per- former. The music and it's per- fol·mance may be judged on a re- lative basis, but the meaning of Catnpus Calendar Friday, April g;_ 4:00-Alan Duga.n, Poetry Reading· Hale House 7 & 9-Film Se1-i.es; \Death of a S~lesman\· EE 2\ Saturday, April 10- ' u 2 :00-Lacrosse Scrimage; Varsity vs. Alumni 4:30-Int.er-Varsity Christian Fellowship· H.H. Monday, Aprrl 12- ' 2 :30-Lecture; Professor Alfred de Grazia \Interdisciplin- ary Character of the Sciences\· Bailey Hall 7 :00-C~ristian Association Panel Disc~ssion · Old Chapel 7:00-Dis.cussion-\Marriage in the Modern Society\· O.C. Tuesday, Apnl 13- ' 11 :30-Clas's Meetings: Class of '68-Memorial Chapel Class of '67-0ld Chapel Class of '66-EE22 7 :00-IFC Meeting; Hale House Student Lounge 8 :00-Sigma Xi Meeting; EE22 8:30-Museum Concert Series; NY Chamber Soloists· M C Wednesday, April 14- ' · · 3:00-Baseball; Union vs. Drew; Alexander Field 2:30-Tennis; Union vs. Drew 8:00-Steinmetz M~morial Lecture; Memorial Ohapel 8 .00-Addres's; Mo1she Auman; NY Consul General from Israel; EE22 Thursday, April 15 3:00-5 :30-Panel Discussion; Intel'll~tional Relations Club and United World Federalists 7:00-Addre'ss; Mr. A. Parker; World Federalists; H.H. 8 :30-Address; Profe·ssor Andrew Hacker of Cornell Uni- Versity; \What Happened to American Conserva- tism••; Mem(}rial Chapel 9:30-R.eception; Prof. Hacker; Hale House Student Lounge ADVERTISEMENT Scandinavian Seminar 1965-66 Scandinavian Seminar, (62 West 58th St., New York N.Y. 10019) is now accepting applications from student~ and other adults for admission to its unique overseas study program i.n De~mark, Finland, Norway or Sweden. ~h.ose who quahfy will SJ?~nd the 1965-66 academic year hvmg as members of families, using the language of their chosen country, and studying in one of the peculiarly Scandinavian residential Folk High Schools of adult education. Now in it~ 15th year, Scandinavian Seminar puts the student on h1s own among Scandinavians to give him first-hand know1edge of their culture. It is also designed to stimul~te. t~e student's initia~ive, stretch his caP,acity for self-disc1plme, and deepen his sence of responsibility. ¥any American colleges and universities give aca- demiC credit for the Seminar. A limited number of schol- arship loans are available. Tuition room and board language materials, and one-way tra~sportation to Scan~ dinavia is $1,800. .u.S. college student~ ar,td teachers, who can trace their ancestors to ~he d1stnct of Sogn, Norway, and a member of the N atlonal Sognalag of America, are eligi- ble to _apply for a scholarship to the Oslo University In- ternatlOnal Summed School 1965, offered by the Sog- nalag, e/o J. P. Vigdahl, Viroqua, Wis. Letters • • • th~ music, and the courage and pride and wor1c behind its per- formance must be respected. Thus, I do not believe that one can take an orchestra apart sec- tion by section, man by man. True, some sections may be stronger than others, but to talk of ~he yerformance section by sectmn mstead of as a whole is definitely wrong. Thirdly, I thought that the co;ncert was exceHent. The repe- tOire must have involved consid- erable work, and it was per- formed rather well. I do not pre- tend to know where any particu- lar ff or pp is in a given piece but I did enjoy the concert very much. Fourthly, I regret that Mr. Howe's article was published in the Coucordiensis. Schenectady is a small town, with, unfortunately a rather limited expression in th~ arts. The Albany Symphony is one of the few forms of artistic expression which has come to our campus. Such an article as Mr. Howe's certainly does not repre- sent a welcome invitation back to the Symphony. Therefore I wish to apologize to Profes~or Explanation To the Editor: It would be nice if I could en- joy bein·g the center of contro- versy; but since I cannot bear the pain involved, I must write this letter. In last Friday's Concordiensis appeared the review, which I wrote, of the concert given by the Albany Symphony the pre- ceding Tuesday evening. This was my first attempt in this form. I most certainly did not intend to offend anyone by the tone or con- tent of what I said. If I have I must apologize. Nor was it my purpose to dispense with the Symphony as a collection of sec- ond-rate musicians-which it most assu1·edly is not. Union Col- lege is indeed fortunate to have such an organization perform on <.'Ulll]Hts each yeur. However, I mus,t hold to my critique of the performance. But for some fla- grant traces of hvperbole it has been in general· supported by others who attended the concet·t. The1:e w!l-s a general !ack of dy- namtcs, mstruments drd at times squeak in and out of tune and in places the musicians were' sloppy Yet, though ragged, the concert was interesting. In fact, Curtis's energetic, but well-paced render- ing of the Schubert Ninth did provide an invigorating uplift to the second half of the program and, perhaps, the entire concert. Sincerely, Robert A. B. Howe Friday April 9, 1965 ·, Curtis and the Albany .Symphony fol' what I felt is a gross misrep- resentation of the attitude toward th.e Albany Symphony here at Union. Lastly, I wish to insert a piece of information which was curi- ously omftted from Mr. Howe's article. I am sure that Mr. Howe, as well as everyone else, realizes the significance of what is known as a standing ovation; cer-tainly it is reserved for no less than an exceptional performance. At the concert, I noticed that Mr. Howe stood as he clapped. Wl1ether this was a standing ova- tion, on his part, Ol' he just de- cided to leave a li·ttle early, only Mr. Howe knows; the implica- tions, though, were rather con- vincing-it was an ovation. 1 believe that my qualifications for disagreement with Mr. Howe are valid enough to state my opinions. In conclusion, my opin- ion is that the article was incor- rect in many places where it wasn',t merely too critical. I say thls not for the sake of Mr. Howe, but for the sake of any possible repercussions due to his insolent article and opinion. Michael A. Penna, '67 Fo.r Honor To the Editor: It is unfortunate that Doctor Russo has such a pessimistic view .'i o.f the possible success of an , honor s·ystem at Union College. 1' union does mean something to· J ' us, Dr. Russo. We have given 1 ~ · considerable thought to the mat- , 1 ier and can cite specific examples \ of the honor system's suc-cess at other institutions, for instance Williams and Trinity, schools comparable to Union and there- fore, with similar problems of \moral degeneracy.\ We are dis- turbed at your outlook on the calibre of Union students. How- eYer, there is an important as- pect which you have overlooked. Toda:v's student looks upon the honor code not only as a \watch dog system,\ but as a means for development of maturity and re- 8ponsibility. Because the honor system failect in 1924..,25 is no rl'mon to drop the idea; rather it i,; time to think pnsitively with <:X Jli'Pssed hope for the future. While it is tru~ that Union men dD not lead a monastic ex- istence, it is true also that every eru has harl its minority of sexual athlett•,; and nymphomaniacs. Those of us who do support the honor system are making an at- tempt to !HOYe that our moral tone ran bt> better than that of a gl'Ilet·ati,,n ago. This is what mo- tivates these advocates as anger has motivated this letter. Jeff Hedquist '67 Don Abood '67 Laund .. o01al 1585 Van Vranken Ave. (2 blcu:ks from Nott St.) SELF SERVICE 25c WASH - 10c DRY PROFESSIONAL SERVICES LAUNDRY - SHIRTS - CHINO'S DRY CLEAM lNG uone Call Will Do It All\ Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in ltalia11 - American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the d.ollor Free Parking For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - PIZZA Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Mauriue B. Grau,bart & Sons 16 3 Union Graduates in Graubart FamilY'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE Af!JD GOOD JEWELRY fri~ay, Ap Sp~ Ca-r. By Union Co \\ eek to th1 the electricl studies, anc though the~ at schedul1 entire stude opportunity on April 12 Alfi·ed c!E Political Sc t:niversity, terdisciplina cnce\ on l\ 2:30, i.n roo: is visit, s ter Fund, cc parts: mee l Bailey I and the sch afternoon. ~ deGrazia a New York { he is also. lisher of Tl oral ScientiE Consul \The Role r:ommunity ':lmily of 1 ' a talk Ioshe Aum :J New ~ , 11rough th, ,hip of the tions Club, : ulty and Stt Schenectady and many ot in the Ca Aumann's ' possible. T: visit to Scht a great dem Israeli cons1 dressing the es of the R< wanis clubs ing at sevE ouch as RP more. Mr. Auma many and c< a boy beforE g-raduating f :'\ew York i Israel. He ' for news m the Foreign . was eventw ~ew York i members am Rion are in· meeting on the exe1 That kno1 blend of 6 that's cool ... with th

1965 ·. misrep- toward here at DAMAGED PAGE(S) friday, April 9, 1965 Sp.eakers To Visit Society Installs ··wRUC. • • c. M rn k New Associates a~ \\us . e'\\\t ee . described as the long agonizing . II\' ..1::' . \\\\· · . On Tuesday, April 13, the procedme involved with buidling (Contiimed from Page 1) Critic-Novelist· Presents ~eM · of th·e ~2·0s~~ \'\ emo1rs 5 a piece curi- Howe's Mr. else, of what ovation; no less that Mr. <t>-------·----- ___ Union College chapter of Sigma a satisfactory radio style. He By Morty Kamzan 1 Xi science and engineering honor suggested the use of a tape re- Glenway Wescott, an American nique as being comparable to Union College wiH be host next 1 . \·M:, in ~oom 2~ of the Electrical society will initiate the newly corde1· and explained that when . novelist whose fame dates back Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises. 11 eek to three speakers who will I<,ngmeenng Bmldmg. elected associates from the .Junior he started with radio, h·is wife· to the 1920's, will visit the Union present their views in the fields Steinmetz Lecture•· and Senior class. After the cere- used to tape his programs and, campus on May 11 and 12 and Depicts American Life of electrical engineering social Also appearing on the Union mony, Ernest C. Poland, the so- by listening to them, he was able wiH address a special convoca- Throughout his works, Wescott clapped. studies, and political science. AI- campus on Aprii 14 wiU be Mr. ciety's national lecturer, will dis- to perfect his style. tion on May 11. Wesc0tt's visit reveals the frustrations of Amer- though they will not be lecturing Walter Sisler w~o is to give t!1e cuss \The Fine Structure of the has been made possible through ican life and the playing out of at scheduled convocations, the 36th annual Stemmetz Memortal Bacterial Cell and the Possrbility I Start Is Difficult the combined efforts of the Stu- Anglo-Saxon Puritan tradition in ova- just de- only ntire student body wiU have the Lecture in Memorial Chapel at of its A,rt_i~ci~I Syn~hesis.\. Finding an initial job involves· d,ent CouncH, . t~e Lectures and America. The best example of opportunity to hear the speakers 8:00 P.M. His lecture win he con- The InitiatiOn will begm at an extensive search. Samuels Concerts Committee,, and Prof. the latter theme is seen in The on April 12 and 14. ceened with \Expanding Horizons 6:30 P.M. in the Hale House Fac- mentioned that very few people· F_rank Gado, 'Yho will. serv~ ~s Grandmotlters, which was re- implica- con- Howe my opin- incor- it al. I say Alfi·ed deGrazia Professor of . in Electrical Power\ and all are ulty Lounge, and will last for in the industry have hact formal ~Is hos.t. The title of his. tor,JC IS qui red reading for senior majers Political Science ;t New York invited to attend. Mr Cisler is ab_out fifteen mi~upt.es. Aft~r education in mass media. The 1 MemOirs ?f. the. Twenties. As by the English Department two t:niv.ersity, wiU discuss \The In- Chairman of the Board and Chief this procedure, the Imttates, therr. knowledge which they have • yet, no defimte plans have been years ago. The book, one of the terdisciplinary Character of Sci- Executive Officer of the Detroit gl!-ests, and the .chapt~r's officers gained is purely through experi-: form_ulat.e~ for tht:> second day few American ethnographic nov- cnce\ on Monday, April 12, at ·Edison Company. Through a joint wrll be s~r.ved dmner m thT Hale ence gained :by working in radio.: of hts VISit. els, attempts an epic depiction of 2:30, in room 305 of Bailey Ha.JI. effort of the Schenectady sec- ~?use Dm!n.g Hall. ~oland s ta!k At the banquet, Richard Fer-:, American life. However, it has His visit, sponsored by the Les- tion of the In~titute o.f Electrical v. 111 be given a~ 8.00 P.M. m on was given the nixon Ryan Contributed to Poetry never received the recognition ter Fund, consists actually of two and Electronrc Engmeers and E.E. 22 and wtll be open at gus h d · · 1 • • • which many of Wescott's follow- l)al ·ts·. meeti··ng· wt't11 J'.ndt'vi'dual Union College, Mr. Cisler's visit no admi~sion to all those i~ter- Fox Award. T e awar IS gl\~en. Begmmng his ~are~r as a st~- ers be!J\eve 1 ·t deserves. (Jf Mr. of any to his t67 :,;: ' to the member of the statiOn dent at the Umversity of Cht- , · and attending classes _h~a..:.s_b.:..e:..:e_n_m...:a_d_e~p_o_s_si_b __ le_. ____ ..:_e_s_te~d_. ____________ maintaing the highest standar~s 1 cago, Mr. Wescott left the insti- l ,i~ Bailey Hall in the morning· of radio broadcasting and who IS 1 tution in his second year of stud- and the scheduled lecture in tl1e cu· rr;cu lum E,·n~ lua tJon most conscientious in improving, ies to become one of the later r~fternoon. Not only is Profeso(S,e i \ . ....,.,._ ill s • relations between the station, its' members of a movement known deGrazia a noted member of the 1 • listeners and the public. ; as the Chicago Renaissance w York University faculty but· (Continued from Page 1) The banquet also included a: which was later largely trans- is also the Editor and Pub- T T 7\ T f WRUC' t bl . 1 G · h V'll d oral Scientist. addition, increased grants for: • • • • • and progress in the past, the; then to Paris. At this time, he lisher of The American Behavi- developing the new courses. In V 1 .1. l\ • I summary · 0 · s rou es 1 P anted to reenwJC 1 age an summer s•tudy are sought. (Continued from Page 1) s~ation's statu~ at ~he ~resent: was a frequent contributor to Consul Discusses Role . . trme, and a glimpse mto rts fu-. Poetry, the foremost avant garde Doctor \The Role of Israel's Academic The ·report notes that there is a Ne~ England Dtrect?r of the 1 ture. poetry magazine of the first half Since World War II, Wescott has been active primarily as a critic. His most recent book, Images of Truth, published three years ago, tries to get away from the cold academic tradition of criticism in its championing of the literary merits of Somerset Maugham, Colette, and Katherine Anne Porter. . . r:ommunity in the Changing r:sk in change, for none of us Umted World Federalists. of this century. At the culmina- Vlew ·'l ':<mily of Nations\ is the topic can prove conclusively that a Following the panel discussion, to attend this commemorative· tion of the early period, Wescott of an 1 · a talk to be presented by new curricular pattern or a new a sherry party is scheduled at program on the United Nations. 1 formerly a poet, had be_come 1St AndreWS • • • College. ~~ Ioshe Aumann, consul of Israel academic calendar will produce Hal~ House. from 5:30-6:30 P.M. The panel discussion and sherry' Glenway Wescott, the novehst. • to·:. :J New York, on April 14. the goals we seek. Yet, there is A dinn~r wll~ be served at Hale party will be open to the coll.ege I . . . (Continued from Page 1) given [l , llrough the combined sponsor- an equal risk in standing still.\ House 1mmed1ately thereafter. At community free of charge. TICk- 1 Wtth the pubhca~IOn of The the mft- ';; ,hip of the International Rela- Dean Theodore Lockwood added 7:15 .guest speaker A. H. Parker, ets for the dinner can be pur-· AJ>ple of the Eye m 1926, fol- on combined science and humani- es • tions Club, Hillel, the Area Fac- that it would be difficult to meas- Presrdent of the Old Colony chased for $3.00 from .. M.rs. Marra 1 1owed h.Y T_ he Grandmothers and ties programs. The program was at ulty and Student Col·loqui'utn, the th f 1 pro T t C B t d n ffi Tl P I H I ll 1 f instance Schenectady B'nai B'rith Lodge, gTam, except in a general spirit O-yerseer of Harvard l!niversity, first door on the right side in Old! WesC'_ott jumped into the literary I close friendship between Presi- ure e surcess o sue 1 a - rus ompany, os on, a11 a at the student activ1ties o ce, • 1e I grun aw r, a nove a, started in 1937 as a resu t o a schools and many other interested groups among students and faculty. He Will address the gathermg. Park- Gym Hall · spotlight. The Grandmother was dent Dixon Ryan Fox of Union theref in the Capitol District, Mr. stated that the increase in com- er .is one of the nation'~ leading The pr~gram is being spon-; awarded the Ijarl?er Prize ~or the,· and Sir\ James Colquhoun, prin- 0 Aumann's visit has been made nrehensive education cannot be Unrted Wol'ld Fede_rahsts; he sored by the International Rela- novel. The Pilgnm Hawk IS con- cipa! and Vice-Chancellor of St. are dis- pos· si'ble. Th1's w1'll be hi's :first ·, I 1 b 11 th f t I t t d o f U · Sk'd I 'd I b t b f th · dsit to Schenectady and, due to ulty must be forced to realign the United Nations. 1 and Russell Sage C~lleges, and finest novels written by an Amer- vo!ves the exchange of faculty c.one sow y, ecause a e ac- a (es a very provoca rve s an n. tions Clubs o mon I more, si erec y many o e one o e I Andr.ews. The program also m- demand to hear him, the themselves at once in o1·der tore- The Union College faculty and J the United World Federalists,' ican: Mark Schorer, a WE!ll known members. as- consul will also be ad- kindle enthusiasm. student body are cordially invited Schenectady chapter. t critic, has spoken of Its tech- erlooked. t!re~;~sing the Schenectady branch- the es of the Rotary, Lions, and Ki- \watch wanis clubs in addition to speak- for ing at several nearby colleges and re- :;uch as RPI, Siena, and Skid- honor more. is no Mr. Aumann was born in Ger- rather it many and came to this nation as ely with a boy before World War II. On gTaduating from City College of Union :-.lew York in 1950, he went to astic ex- Israel. He worked as an editor every for news magazines, shifted to sexual the Foreign Ministry in 1956, and was eventually transferred to the ~ew York in 1961. All faculty g an at- ll!emhers and students in the re- moral ~ion are invited to attend the of a meeting on April 14, at 8:30 mo- anger .. quist '67 '67 I. ALVORD'S SHELL STATION 187 Nott Terrace BRAKES TUNE UP MUFFLERS WHEEL BALANCE 01 6-9847 the executive world of the Deansgate man That knowing look begins with this wash and wear suit ... 2 ply blend of 65% Dacron* polyester/35% cotton with a softer hand, that's cool and porous, light and luxurious. Masterfully tailored ... with the greatest natural shoulder in America. 48.!50 :llall~ 1599 Union Street Get blessed relief with a Value-Rated Used Car at your Oldsmobile Dealer's! • Best buys of all are under the Value-Rated Used Car sign • Many late-model, like-new trades • Many still under new-car guarantee • All sizes, all makes, all body styles • All at easy-to-take prices • So what are you waiting for? A streetcar? See your local Oldsmobile Quality Dealer now! ............ ·-. . .. ; :·. :~-/;;..: .•.. !964 Cutlass Converlible

' DUGAN Page2 Concordy Sports LOVE PAGE 3 Stickers Face Alu1nni Track, Softball In Contest Tontorrow Intramurals Set. For Next Week Garnet Nine To PlayBalJ Tomorrow lime Out: Coaches' Syndrome By Howie Goldberg Tomorrow the lacrosse buffs on campus will get · their first look at the 1965 edition of the Union lacrosse team when some former Union lacrosse players re- tunil to face the varsity. This will be the first actual game experience for the varsity, and it is coming none too soon, with the op- ener against Wesleyan on the Dutchmen's home field just a week off. Although the weather has been atrocious and opponents have stood the Garnet up, progress has been made, according to Coach Bruce Allison. The team was sup- posed to play the University of Massachusetts Wednesday, but someone happened to remember that they had a game with Wes- mean much because of the in- The most advanced part of the team's game, and this is good news, is the attack. More goals from everybody will be needed to improve on last year's 4-5-1 record. Field House Practice During the spring recess the varsity worked hard, but the weather kept the team in the field house much of the time. This is probably the reason for the at- tack's progress. The small, screened in area of the field house is not the best place to practice team defense, and it is much too small for full field play. The team did get down to Lehigh University on Sunday, where it had a scrimmage. The Garnet came out on top by a score of 13-5, with Randy West by and Jeff Schultheis looking especially good. Another scrimmage witn the same team was scheduled for Monday, but the rain said no and forced the team back to Schenec- tarlJ· a day eal'ly to find all that white stuff on the ground. Friday the team scrimmaged Siena in the field house, but this didn't lt-yan on the same day. Larry Dittleman, returning let- terman, swings stick in recent I>ractice session. door conditions and the weak op- position. Saturday Colgate was here to practice with the Garnet. Again the offense, with John Hann, Jeff Schultheis, and Randy Westby at attack, looked good. Marc Hurlbut and Brendan Hutchinson have done fine work at midfield for Coach Allison, and they will probably open the season there along with Howie Wiedman. The defense, with a little more teamwork, will be one of the team's strong points. Heading this unit will be Bob DeMichele, Intramural Swimming Kappa Alpha ........................... .26 Psi l!psilon .................................. 24 Independents ................................ 20 Phi Epsilon Pi ............................ 19 Chi Psi .......................................... 14 Phi Delta Theta --·-------·-------------14 Theta Delta Chi .......................... 7 Delta Phi ...................................... 2 Phi Gamma Delta ...................... 2 Beta Theta Pi ............................ 2 f T' 'f' t f f f '# f + + 'f T T i' T T 'f' f f T T f f f 9 f t.,......,-r DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET 4 ••• 4 + •• 6 + • 4 .... 4 •• 4 ............ 4 • + • + • _ ••••••• 4 4 .... ~ Authentic 2 ply imported Shetland Wool Sweaters by lord Jeff in the classic crew neck NAVY DARK GREEN HEATHER TAN HEATHER BRICK HEATHER 15.9 5 DAVE'S ~quire ~IJnp Ph. 377-3061 ~ 326 STATE STREET Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 Gary Brown, baseball captain, throws a couple of warm-up tosses. By Andy Colb Possible Solution There are two possible alternatives to combat the dread malady, which leaves ·students aimlessly walking around the gym looking for somewhere to play or for something to play with. The obvious so- lution is to build a private, soundproof, out-of~the-way, six-sided c~bby hole, complete with air purifiers, band-aids, and shower room, as a panacea for the cooches' pains. The other possibilities are either regulating a schedule for faculty (this includes c!laches) hand- ball playing, such as currently governs the use of the swimming 1 hole, or prohibiting everyone from playing at all. The extra space is desperately needed by both the stockroom and the trainer. Could there be some ulterior motive in Trainer Bob's needing an extra room, just the size of a handball COUl't? The best solution, however, would be to erect a wall partition- ing the gym into two halves, approximately square, then roofing over that area to provide two more courts. Since other maintenance activities don't seem to interest the coaches, if the degree to which they participate in them at school is any indi,cation, let ba·sketball • and weight lifting move somewhere else. Let handball regn supreme in both the mind and body of the athletic department, but let stu- dents practice also-they may be potential coaches. schools open their seEu~ons earlier Hrdlicka, Nick Renchkovsky, and than Union. Bill Toth. Another returning let- Coach Lawrence figures to field te1·man, Frank D'Allard, a pitch- a very strong defensive team, er, is also a powerful man on the with good, solid pitching. The big squad. question will be the hitting. If Coach Lawrence admits the Delta Phi ·····················--······-···--·--10 the Garnet can come through with team's big weakness is in the Alpha Delta Phi .......................... 7 the base his, the team will be a hitting department. But he is tween Union and Kings Point. In all probability, the future sailors will be well prepared, since most of the New York City Phi Gamma Delta ...................... 6 strong contender. quick to add that the squad can Sigma Phi .................................... 2 Taking the mound tomorrow break out with a spray of base Independents ·························-··- 2 will be Rick Crookes, one of hits on any given day, at any Phi Sigma Kappa ········----·---·---·· 2 Union's three top pitchers. An- time. He views each game sep- South other, Gary Brown, will open at arately, regardless of previous \ Phi Epsilon Pi ............................ 10 shortstop. Rounding out the in- contests. and admits he puts lit- Chi Psi ----·------------- ........................ 7 field will be Larry McDonald at tle faitt in earlier results. It is Delta_Chi ----------------- ..................... 5 Lhird, Bruce Fike at second, Art his belief that the Dutchmen will Phi Delta Theta .......................... 4 Marshall at first, and John Kuhl, be in ever·y game, up 'till the Psi Upsilon ..................... - ........... 0 doing the catching. Greg Olson las; out, no m<Jtter who the op- Kappa .Sigma .............................. 0 figures to be tomorrow's center pont:!lt is, and no matter what East fielder with Rick Erdoes in right the score i~. Theta Delta Chi ............................ 7 field; and probably Bob McAdams ---=G=--o 7 1f::--- Phi Sigma Delta -----·--·--·------------ .... 5 -;b~l G~~n:~~aming left field fot· A meeting wHl be held Tues- ~:~;a ~~l;~n .. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J The team is well exl?erienc.ed, 0 dfafiycea,t c~~ 1 ~!~nt;gM.t~: TcA.~egt!i£ Beta Theta Pi ................................ 3 and among the startmg nme Sigma Chi ................................... 3 alone there are s~ven lettermen championships .to be held at Cau- \ BOWLING: returning. These nme are backed ton, N.Y .•. Apnl 24 •• All stude~1ts National I up by several reliable substitutes, who are mterest~d 111 c?mpetmg Kappa Alpha ............................. 291 among them Bob Barnett, Al should attend this meetmg. Phi Gamma Delta ...................... 16 r;.~.,..,..,..~.,..,..,.,..,.,.,_.,.,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,.,..,..,..,..........,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,._.,..,..,..,..,..,._.,, ,. Phi Sigma Kappa ................ 16 Sigma Phi .................................. 12 Theta Delta Chi .. .. .... .. . ..... 12 Psi Upsilon .................................. 11 Delta Phi ...................................... 10 Alpha Delta Phi .......................... 4 Independents .............................. 2 American Sigma Chi .................................... 26 Delta Upsilon .............................. 22 Phi Sigma Delta ........................ 20 Delta Chi ...................................... 19 Chi Psi -----------------·-----·---·········-- .. 15 Phi Epsilon Pi ............................ 12 Kappa Sigma .............................. 4 Phi Delta Theta .......................... 4 Beta Theta Pi .............................. 2 HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL - CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL • CHARTER BUS RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 AM, to 9 P.M. - Sat. 11 A.M .. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE SENIORS! Please order your Cap and Gown immediately at the CAMPUS BOOKSTORE DEADLINE: MAY 1st L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 YOUR JEWELER A WAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 Vol. 94 Ju Brt The ofJ IIOU11Ced th April 30-M greatest ja Saturday « aJ:l-star ex1 Shirelles, ( and his ba Brubec1 mond on tl and Joe M nearly eve one time OJ en best sa Magazine, in the sam of the qual Count Bas The Qu albums inc! and \Coun of his mos cently, Bru and the NE The Sta beck Quar world in th other coun1 By havit for the we Junior Claf dent for fu· fully atten« Other e ball game . afternoon : Fac1 Rep Disct at the en proposals senting f: fault witt ll:'he ma, rl11:11, expre; Kurtz of tl ment, deals of the il which may posals are Kurtz, in the fear t risk becom Comprehem particularly the Freshrr Fac1 Accordinl Freshman \designed 1 the studei Those teac confined to as is now English or cut across partments \ faculty \ve While th that this p: to the vita ' opposition prevent an cited profe ing on his ,, Professot is not aga a three-te other cour: Education 1 from inclm ments that is a \thin valuable e< The seve is present!: by the six Council. It one form o within the on to the scrutiny. The act courses inv pared, and outlines wl rol!ow in cc Ell It is expc the three t« into effect At that tin year cour: Education Students p1 man and would prob (('ont

Colb members that known as that have a hard- s forever, age ap- 1:eason The , paradox want. gym 1 says to a puff of malady, oking for so- six-sided roO'Jil,, are hand- 1 space Could an extra partition- roofing to which • supreme let stu- and let- a pitch- on the the in the he is can of base at any sep- previous puts lit- It is men will 'till the the op- what Tues· Ketz's golf at Cau- \ students co. VORS ve. Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 94- No. 21 PRICE 15 CENTS SCHENECTADY, N. Y. THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1'965 Juni·ors Sign Brubeck Co~nbo Candidates Kurtz Will Leave By Ted Kreinik Slated For For Buffalo Post The officers of the Class of 1966 have an- nounced the completed plan:; for Spriug Weeken.d April 30-May 1. Dave Brubeck, one of the world'~ greatest jazz figures has been contracted for the Satu1•day evening concert . .b'or F·riday night an aJ:l:star extravaganza has been set, featuring the Shtrelles, Gary C. S. Bonds, and Little Richard and his band. Brubeck's quartet is composed of Paul Des- mond on the alt0 sax, Gene Wright on the bass, and Joe Morello on the drums. Brubeck has won nearly every jazz poll in the United States at one time or another. Desmond wa\s recently chos- en best sax played by the readers of D0wnbea.t Magazine, while Morello was voted best drummer in the same poll. Wright is the newest member of the quartet, joining in 1958, after playing with Count Basie's Band. Popular Albums The Quartet has put out many very popular albums including \Time Out,\ \Time Further Out \ and .\Countdown Time, and Outer Space.\ O~e of h1s most popular singles is \Take Five.\ Re- cently, Brubeck recorded with Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic. The State Department has sent the Dave Bru- beck 9uart~t on several toms throughout the world m the1r program O'f cultural exchanges with other countries. Dave Bmbeck, Weekend star By having both these types of entertainment for the weekend, Jack Seifert, President of the Junior Class, believes that \it could set a prece- dent for future weekend's at Union if it is success- fully attended.\ sored by WRUC on Saturday morning. There will be a lacrosse game against Clarkson, a track meet versus M}ddlebury and a tennis match with Bard in the afternoon. W eek-eud Events Other events of the Weekend include a base- ball game against Norwich University on Friday afternoon at 2:30, and a soap-box derby spon- Tickets for the weekend will go on ·sale on Monday, April 19th in all dorms and fraternity houses as well as in the Student Activities Office. The class is also publicizing the events in all Tri- City newspapers and radio· stations as it is hoped the public will attend in force. F acuity Group Opposes Report On Curriculum Discussion of the Report on the Curriculum, released at the end of March, has evinced some opposition to the proposals of the Curricular Affairs Committee. The dis- senting faculty, based largely in Divisions I and II, find fault with the plan for Comprehensive Education. :fhe major objection to the • rlil'n, expressed by Professor Paul u . T H Kurtz of the Philosophy Depart- 0100 0 ear ment, deals with the vague nature of the interdivisional courses A h 0 £ which may be offered if the pro- u t 0 r posals are accepted. P1·ofessor Kurtz, in an interview, voiced ii w 1 •1 d traCk !I !II '69 Chosen; I Has Variety And Ability Seven hundred twenty-two high school seniors have been accepted to fill three hundred fifty places in the Class of 1969. This figure represents an increase over last year's six hundred seventy-nine acceptances, which brought three hundred forty-four freshmen to Union last fall. According to Jonathan Pearson, III, Director of Admissions, the number of prospective freshmen chosen this year represents the largest number since he assumed the fear that a teacher would risk becoming a \dilettante\ in Comprehensive Education courses, particularly the one offered fo1· In a Convocation on April 22, his position. Moreover, it may rank second only to the Class of ;he noted B1·itish poet John Wain 1950 as the most prospective Class Poll Election of class officen; will 1 be held next Monday, April 19. Primaries to limit the number of candidates to two for each .po- sition were held April 12 and class meetings to present these candidates wet·e held Tuesday morning. All U!Jper-class fraternity men, including those not presently liv- ing in their respective houses will vote in the fraternities between 6::30 and 7:30 p.m. on election days, Non-fraternity, upper-class dormitory residents will vote •be- tween 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. The polling place in South College will be the fourth floor lounge, and in Richmond House will be the second floor lounge. Freshmen \\'ill vote in the West Co1lege lounge between 5:30 and 7:30 p.m. Non-residents may vote in the Student Activities Office between 1:00 and 4:30 p.m. on the day of election. Candidates Clash The Class of 1966 will choose between incumbent Jack Seifert and Tom Morgan for president; Skip Eames is unopposed for vice-president; incumbent Arnold Katz and Tom 8pencer vie for the position of secretary; and BO'b DeMichele is unopposed for treasurer. In the Class of 1967, Martin Pinson challenges Lindley Park- er's presidency, while Robert Benjamin is unchallenged for vice-president. For secretary, the candidates are Donald Abood and Jack Stokvis. Richard Clemens and George Kates are candidates Ior treasurer. Freshmen will select either Richard Corrigan or Stephen Walker for president, and either Stephen Ritterbush or Gary Johnson for the position of vice- president. John Holmes opposes Sandy Alexander for secretary, while Bernard Cohen and Don DeMichele are seeking the posi- tion of treasu1·er. By Larry Briskman Prof. Paul Winter Kurtz of the Department of Philos- ophy has announced his resignation from the faculty effec- tive at the termination of the current academic year. Kurtz, who has been a member of Union's faculty for four years, has accepted an offer from the State University of New York at Buffalo. He will join the faculty at Buffalo in the academic year 1966-1967 and will spend most of next year in Europe. -----<S> Kurtz is the author of five SC Reviews Publications, Elections The Student Council at its meeting Tuesday considered whether Union's administration should control student publica- books including Decision and the Condition of Man and A Current Appraisal of the Behavioral Sciences. The second was co- authored by Rollo Handy, a for- mer member of Union's philoso- phy department and presently on the faculty of S.U.N.Y. at Buf- falo. Kurtz received his doctorate from Columbia University in 1952 and has previously taught at Vas- sar College and at Trinity Col- lege. Peterson Comments Prof. Sven Peterson, chah·- tions. man of the Department of Philo- The Council moved toward sophy, was sorry to hear <Jf freeing publications from admin- Kurtz;'s resig)llation. \Prof. · · Kurtz,\ he said, \has been a tstrat1ve vetoes by passing reso- brilliant member of the depart- lution #201. This motion sug- ment; very popular with his stu- gests that the Trustees of the College withdraw the power of dentsj has an impressive record the Dean of Students to veto of publications and progress in selections of editors and business his profession; and has worked managers made by the Student hard in faculty committees and Publications Board. It further in the divisional structure from states that should the Trustees the standpoint of high academic refuse to make the suggested ideals. The department, the di- withdrawal, the Student Council vision, and the college will be sorry to see Prof. Kurtz go.\ might \consider appropriate ac- tion.\ Prof. Neal W. Allen, chairman Activity Center Needed of the Department of History a;nd chairman of the Division of So- Ideas about a Student and ·cia! Studies, expressed similar Alumni Center were discussed at ·sentiments. He felt that Prof. the meeting. The activities evalu- Kurtz had brought much prestige ation committee noted that a cen- to Union through the impressive ter would benefit many organiza- quality of his publications and tions on campus. President Victor in addition has been an extremely Fazio voiced the opinion that a effective teacher. Allen warned Student Union might be built that the attractiveness of the large within six to ten years. university and especially of the A new activities rating system expanding state university sys- for the Brown Cup was passed. tern in New York is something The system, originally presented which the College must be very several meetings ago, will be sent concerned about. He argued that to fraternity presidents, the in- if our policy of faculty salaries Continued from Page 5) (Continued on Page 5) the Freshman year. will read, and comment upon, part freshmen ever accepted. of his long poem \Wildtrack.\ In addition to the size of the J..'aculty Versatility t 1· t th · d fi 't During his talk he will discuss accep ance 1s , · ere 1s a e m e According to the report, the h international flavor. Students Mountebanks To Stage Tragedy~ F h . 11 ,_ t e present stage, past problems ha··e been accepted from Japan, '1·es man year course Wl ue ' \designed to afford a focus for and probable future, of the poem. Switzerland, France, England, the student's entire program.\ Wain has long been in the lit- and Mexico. As far as the qual- Those teaching it would not he erary public eye. He has written ity of those applying for admis- confined to a single department, !'eviews for the London Observer sion is concerned, Pearson com- as is now the case in Freshman and articles for the New Republic mented, \This class has every- English or History 10, but would and the New Yorker. Of his re- thing: variety, all ldnds of abil- cut across a wide range of de- cent poems, \A Word Carved on ity; and, more importantly, a real partments in order to emphasize a Sill,\ and \Weep Before God,\ intellectual power can be seen in faculty \versatility.\ ::.re judged masterpieces, and his the group.\ While the administration feels critical work, The Living Word Letters to be Written that this program will contl•ibute of Shakespeare, has attracted d d l d · much praise. The poem \Wild- Pearson ad e that facu ty an to the vitality of the faculy, the track,\ on which he has been students, whom those accepted •· opposition believes that it will t• d 'n the1' pl1· at· ns working for two years, is con- men 1one 1 r ap c to , prevent an imaginative and ex- ceived on a grand scale and is have been asked to write to them cited professor from concentrat- an experiment in styles and pro- to inform them of their impres- ing on his field of study. cedures. Parts of it have been sions of life at Union. Also, to \Thin Soup\ published both in Arabic and En- those who expressed interest in glish in several magazines, and a specific department, Pearson Professor Kurtz stated that he an \L.P.\ i.s due to be released has asked these departments to is not against the institution of soon. Wain's new novel,Strike the 1 write letters of introduction and a three-term program or the Father Dead i:s another of hi's explanation of their programs. other courses in Comprehensive experiments in style. Those who have been accepted Education as long as they refrain University Lecturer must let Union know of their de- from including so many depart- Wain was born in 1925 in Stoke 1 cision to matriculate by Monday, The Mountebanks of Union College will open their Spring season on Wednesday, April 21, when the curtain goes up on their production of the classic Greek tragedy \Hippolytus.\ Euripides' drama is generally considered to be one of the most provocative of all Greek trage- dies, in that it is a dramatic treatment of the conflict between physical and spiritual love, re- volving around the thwarted pas- sion of a married woman for her step-son. I Uncontrolled Passion 1 Phaerlra is Theseus' wife and Hippolytus' step-mother. Aphl'O- dite makes her fall in love with Hippolytus. But Phaedra too is virtuous. Adultery is an unthink- able act for her; but adultery with her husband's son was es- pecially heinous, involving, as it would, the son wronging his own ments that the resulting course on Trent. He was educated at St., May 3. Last year fifty-one per is a \thin soup\ instead of a John's College, Oxford, where he I cent answered affirmatively, valuable educational experience. received a First Class Honors: which, if projected to this year, The seventy-four page booklet Degree. After this, he acted as I would leave the Class of 19o9 is presently under consideration University Lecturer for eight 1 with three hundred sixty-eight by the sixteen member Faculty years before beginning his liter- members, or eighteen more than father. Phaedra finds that she I n· . . . . cannot control her passion and Ippolytus cast mclud~s, left to r~ght: Doug Hall, therefore, rather than submit to Kraft, Charley Pankemer. Fred Fico. Roy Clark, Kent Council. It must be approved in ary career. · expected. one form or another, Ol' rejected, within the month, and then sent on to the Trustees for their scrutiny. it, she decides to kill herself by starvation. Discovers Secret Phaedra's nurse discovers the secret of Phaedra's illness and, in The actual content of the courses involved is not yet pre- pared, and the report only offers outlines which the faculty may follow in constructing a syllabus. Effective in 1966 It is expected that, if accepted, the three term schedule would go into effect in September 1966. At that time only the Freshman \Forbidden Games'' M an attempt to save her life, but On Friday night, the Union College ovie Series presents the without Phaedra's knowledge or last film in this semester's program. The film is Forbidden Games consent, reveals Phaedra's pas- (Jeux Interdits). Sho·wings will be at 7 and 9 P.M. in EE 22. · 1 H' 1 · Two French children, Brigitte Fossey and Georges Poujouly, co- sion to Hlppo ytus. 1 PP 0 ytus lS star in this film, which has been acclaimed wherever it has been outraged and reviles Phaedra in shown. The children giv-e performances that have won for the film a long tirade. But since the nurse such awards as: Grand Prize in the Venice Film Festival, an Acad- has made him swear an oath of emy Award and the New York Film Critics Award. The story by secrecy, he is powerles to act Francois Boyer was adapted for the screen by Pierre Bost and Rene against Phaedra by tening Clement. The dialogue by Jean Aurenche and Pierre Bost is in Theseus. Phaedra doubts he will French with English subtitles. Forbidden Games was produced by. keep his oath. In order to protect Cast in the lead role of the pro- I supervision of Professor William duction, which will be presented i Meriwether. Mr. Samuel B. Mor- on the new arena stage of the rell directed the production. N ott Memorial Theatre, are Kent Kraft, as Hippolytus, and vet- eran actress Pamela Morrell as his step-mother, Phaedra. Werner Liepolt plays the part of Theseus, the deluded father who comes to his senses too late to prevent the catastrophic consequences of this one-sided love affair. Meriwether-Morrell Production Tickets are now available at the theatre box office for the April 21-25 dates and the special Parents' Weekend May 8 per- formance. Following the usual policy, students are allowed one free ticket; additional tickets may be purchased for $1.00. Faculty and staff members will be allowed two free tickets each. Patrons may call DI 6-4098 between one and five p.m. to reserve tickets. • \ year course in Comprehensive Education wou'd be instituted. Students presently in the Fresh- man and .Sophomore classes Robert Dorfman and directed by Rene Clement. the honor of her children and her Quiet War Story . own honor, she decides to commit The story concerns the aftermath of a raid by Gern1an planes suicide; and in order to punish on a road. crowded with refugees. A delicately beautiful 5-year-old Hippolytus for so wrongly revil- girl rises beside the bodies of her parents, clutching a dead puppy ing her, she leaves a note accus- in her arms. She goes to live with a peasant family, and makes ing him of rape. And then Others in the cast include Re- becca Siegel, Susan Schreiber, Margaret Me1·iwether, and Ba1·- Editor's Note: We regret that bara Fertig; while Charles Pan- there was an inaccurate indirect kenier, Fred Fico, Roy Clark, quotation ()f Dean Lockwood's Dave Hall, and Michael Halpe1·- statements concerning the Curri- son are in supporting male roles. culum Report in last week's The entire production is under the l Concordiensis. would probably take the bulk of (('ontinued on Paj!e 5) (Continued on Page 5) Phaedra hangs herself.

2 Bookstore Offers Recent Titles By Rodham E. Tulloss Following are some short-takes on new titles available in the Campus Bool\store. E DWARD Lewis Wallant, Children at the Gate, Popular Library, 144r>p., 50c. Edward Lewis Wallant died in Decem- ber, 1962 after having published only two novels. His wife published his two other works in the next two years. Children was the last, published in 1964; in it Wallant best succeeds in .stating his me·ssage: Only those who love, though they may seem foolish or mad, have any hope of inner peace or chance to salvage beauty from the crush of this society. The major character ·Of the novel is Angelo, a nineteen year-old Italo-American who thinks he has seen through Catholicism and can love only his idiot sister, Theresa. His joh require·s a person of his well-developed cynicism-he hawks a drug- store's ·wares through the depressing wards of a Catholic hospital. Then one day, he meets Sammy. Sammy is a new intern. Sammy is a damn' pest. Sammy is a .smart-alec. Sammy is a little out of place in the hospital because he is a Jew. People start wondering about Sammy. He taunts them into loving. He puts smiles <m the faces of people in. constant pain. Angelo thinks Sammy is giving them stolen dope. Horror has a-lways follo-wed Sammy. Even now an old immi- grant is moved to love beauty. He has always crushed the butterflies he tried to hold, he says. He tt·ies to hold another butterfly-a beauti.ful Puerto Rican girl who has had her larynx re- moved. It's attempted rape to everybody else. Angelo Becomes a Judas Angelo becomes a Judus for the first time. Sammy begins a petition to fm·give the old man. Fo1·give? This is too much love. Angelo find:> gammy in the gutter; he has tt·ied to get two drunks to forgive. Sammy is finally hounderl down for the stnlen drugs. Ang-elo has become a double Judas. In the labyrinthine basement of the hospital Sammy makes a last stand for love. They know he is there because when the Puerto Rican girl dies of pneumonia, he breaks onto the loudspeaker and tries tu say Kaddish. Finall~· he must give hio life fur his teaching; but even his death is a bizarre jol<e. Sammy the joker, the taunter, is smartet• than other little Christs; he leaves une last trick 'till after his death. The effect upon Angelo rounds out the novel and the last message of one of th<' gTeat roung writers of recent years. ::: * * Yves Berger, The Garden, Xew American Library (Signet), 142pp., 60c. \ ... in Virginia about 1842 . , .\ Again and again this phrase appears in Berger's The Garden. Virginia about 1842 was the perfect time and place, according to the narmtor's father-It had just the proper mixture of the savage and the civilized. The father has tried to create this per- fect time anew on his estate in the south o1' France in the decades following the Second World War. Two Attempts at Seduction The introverted novel tells the tale of two opposing attempts at seduction. The father who is both a mental and physical giant attempts to t•avish the narrator-son's mind, win him to the ways of words and Virginia about 1842. The nar- t·ator's sister, appropriately named Vh·ginia, at- tempts to save her brother for reality through sex. But eYen incest may not prevail against a fantasy so simple and yet so terrifyingly de- structive to life. Mr. Berger, who with his first novel won the Prix Femina, displays near-Faulknerian depth and romplexity in this tig-htly constructed, strange book. * * Lawrence I>urrt>ll & Henry Miller: A Privati:' C'orrt>spondence, Dutton, 39Rpp., $1.85. The letters in this volume are not quite like any that the average reader has seen. They cover Thursday, April 15, 1965 Concert's Style Is Straightforward Vibrant Theater Gi'Ven At 'Lena' By George Constantinople T HE NEW York Chamber Soloists appeared in concert at the Memorial Chapel on the past Tuesday evening. The groelp consi'sted of Gerald T.arack,. violin; Alexander Kouguell, cello; Ynez Lynch, viola; an~ Harriet Wingreen, piano. The program included less well known works of Beethoven, Brahms, Schubert, Bariok, and Mozart. The style of performance was straight-forward and forceful, these qualities con- stituting both the strength and the weakness uf the performance. Constant Awareness Chamber music can be likened to an avid con- versation between several .people. At times the members of the group speak simultaneously, at others they respond to what other members of the group are saying. The difference lies with the fact that chambe1· music calls upon the musician, whether playing 'simultaneously with, or in re- sponse to, others, to be constantly aware of what the others are saying. In this lies the great beau- ty, as well as difficulty, of this art form. In the works petformed one finds both the beauty and the difficulty set forth. In the Mozart Trio for Viola, Clarinet, and Piano, one felt that there was a lack of communi- cation between the viola and clarinet on .the one hand, and the piano on the other, yet the non- fus·sy style of delivery was appreciated. The Brahms is scored, like the Mozart, for piano, cla,rinet, and low-pitched string instrument, the cello replacing the viola. The soloists approached the Brahms in the same manner as they had the Mozart. Again, the unusual view of the piece was refreshing, but the problem of communication per- si·sted. The Beethoven Sonata for piano and cello seemed, in many respects, the most difficult piece musically, for the piano-cello sound can make contrast between the two instruments difficult. The frequent doubling of the cello by the piano makes the role of the cello ambiguous. Alexander the whole span of years of the acquaintance of Miller and Durrell: From the first letter of Dur- rell's-a fan letter praising Tropic of Cancer-to a letter of Miller's \'rritten juust a few years be- for·e the book was compile-d. Appropriately this la!\t letter ends \to be continued.\ The subject matter of the letters ranges wide- ly. Wives, mistresses, colorful friends, Hamlet, the publishing business, wisecracking, and criti- cism are a few of the top-ics which presented themselves for discussion over the years. Here are a few quotation::~: Dear Miller: Two questions: ( 1) What do you do with the garbage? AND (TWO) (2) When you ·say \to be with God\ do you identify yourself with God? Or do you regard the God-stuff reality as some- thing extraneous towards which we yearn? or -Durrell. ... in our age we have reached a point in writing when it i's possible for the writer to be himself ()II paper. It's more than possi- ble. It's inevitable and necessary. But for the Elizabethans writing wa:s separated entirely ft•om living. The self you put on paper was recognizable by a few mannerisms, a style of moral thought, etc. But it no more cor- t•esponded to the author than Hamlet corre- sponds to you. The vh-ture IYf the Elizabeth- ans was this: Their exuberance was so enor- mous, so volatile, ·so pe-st-ridden, so aching and vile and repentant and spew-struck, that here and there, by gl~rious mistakes, they transcended the canon. But their critical ap- paratus was interested only in the narration. Was it good Seneca or wasn't it? -Miller There are a million m01·e quotable quotations; all of them spiced with the special wit and in- cisive intelligence of these two great figures of twentieth century writing. Kouguell, :playing with subtlety and reserve, main- tained the role of the cello as an independent force in the work. Enthusiasm for Bartok The Bartok was the most enthusiastically re- c!'ived work of the performance. For the first t1me one felt that the instrumentalists we1•e in comJ?lete musical 1~apport. The Bartok Contrasts cons1sts of three movements utilizing folk music ele~~nts. In the first movement, Verlukos (Re- crmtmg Dance), the -clarinet is often used in a jazz-like manner, the piano and violin continuing in their own dialogue, At other times the violin plays dance-like tunes, to which the clarinet re- sponds. The second movement, Piheno (Relaxa- t~on), the clarinet and violin play simple, &cale- hke melodies in seemingly separate tonalities, with occasional commen•ts from the piano. One felt ~hat there were three different \voices\ all speak- mg at the same time, yet communicating with each other effectively. The last movement pl'O- vided a release from the intensity of the Second Movement, conversation being replaced by fren- etical monologue. . Varied Representation . T~e remaining works on the program was the Trw. m B flat by Schubert. The Trio, a product of h1s youth, presents few difficulties for the lis- tener, although it is the work of a matu:ve com- poser .. P:rhaps the !!lost interesting feature of the Trw ts the dou:b!tng of melody by the violin and cello which somehow adds a poignant quality to the work. The space between the violin (so- prano) and cello (ba'ss) is filled by the viola (alto) which repeats fragments of the m('lody creating a vibrant force within the piece. The program gave a varied representation of the chamber music art form. Each piece demanded from an instmmentalist the complete awareness of his fellow players, which was achieved morP successfully in some pieces than in others. CPllist Alexander K.ouguell By Stuart Sweet U NION students know the Cafe Lena pri- mat·.!y through its presentations of folk- music on Friday and Saturday evenings. Tue Ga!Iery Theater,. housed in the same building as -the Cafe, is relatively unfamiliar, however, perhaps because of its recent founding. During the p,ast month I have had the privilege of work- ing with the members of the Gallery Players; I hope to be able to communicate an idea of the quaHfications of these persons and acquaint yol.1 >vith our plans for the future. The Capitol Dis·h·ict area (in which I include Saratoga) suppoTts a number of little theater gmups. The quality of their performances varies --the players are not pl'ofes·sionals and have other interests demanding a share of their time. The GaHe1·y Players, however, are largely profession- als and have demonstrated this fact to the delight of aU the newspaper critics of the Albany-Sche- nectady-Saratoga area. These people have come to this area seeking to bui1d a theater of the off- Bl'oadway g·enre. Wynne-Evans Directs Resident actor and director for the Gallery Theater is John Wynne-Evans, a native of Wales who is now an American citizen.. His credits in- clude appearances (with Alec Guiness) in Coro- nets and in several other British films. He has played both on- and off-Broadway and has worked two seasons as a leading actor at Hopkins Center, Vu.rtruouth College. Miroslav-Romko turns incon- sistyently fine performances as a leading actor rot· the lial'lery Theater. Mr. Romko received his llramut;c training at the American Academy Olf lJt amatic Arts and a.ppeared in numerous produc- tion; ~xteudmg from the classics (Agamemnon and .Julius Caesar) to contemporary (A Hatful of Rain and Sweet Bird of Youth) .. Josef Sti:lgiano pro- vtdes strong support. Mr. Stigliano is stationed at the Air Force Station in Saratoga; prior to this he studied at He1·bert Berghof Studio in New York and played summer stock in the Northeast. ... KetTy Michaels and Lena Spencer are the Gallery Theater's leading ladies. Miss Michaels also received her training at the American Acad- emy, Her credits include su~ popular contem- porary works as Strange Bedfellows and Philadel- phia Story, the classic Julius Caesar, and School for Scaudal, a popular play of the Restoration period. Lena .Spencer did theater work in Massa- chusetts before coming to Saxatoga to establish the G-afe five year ago. These five persons form the nucleus of the Gallery Players. Supporting playe1'S and technical assistance are provided by members of the community, the Saratoga Air and Naval Stations, Union, and Skidmore. Caligula Opens Season Th.e Galle1·y Theater opened the present season with Caligulo. Other productions have included Krapp's Last Tape, Zo.o Story, The Hostage, The Caretaker, and The Brownian Version. All these performan.ces have been exceptionally well re- ceived both by the critics and the theater-going public. The season ends with Chekov's The :Sea- gull, opening the Sunday after Baster. The second season opens May 9 wit-h the return, by popular demand, of Caligula. Other plays in this series in- clude: Sartre's ::'l'o Exit, May 16-20 Farquhar's The Beaux Stratagem May 30-June 3 Kurnitz's A Shot in the Dark June 13-17, 20-24 Osborne's Look Back in Anger June 27-July 1 Evening performances are at 8:00 pm and the pl'ice of admission is only $1.00. I urge you to support this venture. In this brief and dull sum- mary I have been unable to communicate the vitality and devotion of this group. But I couldn't do it as well as the Players themselves; come and see for yourself. ------- - =-------------- --~~--~~~~~~~~--~~~~n Mother Ferro's Restaurant Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager free! y ilvw. Specializing in Italian ·American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Ope11 11 A,M. to 9 P.M. -Sat. ll A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our llATHSKELLER For reservations pnone FR 4.-8917 -------:) DRIVE - IN CHOW UP SNACKS TO DINNERS DAILY TO MIDNIGHT AT SCOTIA BRIDGE ·' I) I) II Thursday Re· j L Ed. Not' I'ectly fr Committ eral facu .as repre1 report. · whole, aJ Union program c graduate I a dual obli and appro] tha beyond an: The C structure 1 that the l'E an effectiv mittee pro lege may gram of c . tion\ dedic him, integ sues a fie! mature an' These pro]: ods used education vated men and manm The a quirement~ tern of ge rlividual cc a bold nev po·se repla1 tion ... .In lacks excit PROP acader effecti imatel therm' to thiE There a winter t elusive of lends itsel tegrity of different t modificatio rests on tl involves tc formance . PRO PI credit- comph and th tembe1 shall I PRO PI isfacto fill th~ satisfa of his depart proved tions s gram, requir£ I .~----- L. G. I CARJ BADG_.ES ll STATiOi CLlJ MEt! Frate1 729 g, 8yrae1 SEI Please and Go' CAMPU DEJ M

15, 1965 Lena pri- of folk- evenings. building however, During of work- I of the YO'l1 I include theater ces varies other The delight come the off- e Gallery of Wales in- in Coro- . He has worked Center, in con- ing actor his ademy of produc- of Rain pro- stationed prior to in New are the Michaels Acad- contem- Philadel- School Massa- establish form upporting by Air and season included The All these well re- The :Sea- second y popular series in- and the you to sum- icate the But I here ------:) . Thursday, April 15, 1965 Excerpts From Report Wo.uld Institute A Three Term Year Ed. Note: The following excerpts have been taken di- , I'ectly from the official report of the Curricular Affairs Committee. This report is now being studied by the gen- eral faculty. We have attempted to make these excerpts as representative as possible of the outlook of the entire 'report. lt is, however, only about ten per cent. of the whole, and this must be kept in mind while evaluating it. ... Unless a faculty undertakes . , . a self-examination and tt'ies out new approaches, the College will most likE>Iy fail in its educational mission ... A Study of Puri>oses Union College has always sought to provide an exemplary program of undergraduate education for young men and selective graduate programs. In fulfilling this objective, the College as'sumes a dual obligation: to prepare its students to enter graduate schools and appropriate jobs, and to educate them more broadly as human beings that they may know those aspects of life which reach far beyond any career. . .. The Committee believes that there are aspects of the present stl'Ucture which preclude satisfaction of the College's purposes, and that the recommended calendar and curricular changes \Viii provide 'an effective mechanism to achieve these aims. Therefore, the Com- mittee proposes a new academic calendar through which the Col- lege may more effectively achieve its purpose·s, a four-year pro- gram of carefully constructed studies in \Comprehensive Educa- •· tion\ dedicated to a student's search for meaning in the Ufe about him, integrated with a major program in which each student pur- sues a field of interest in considerable depth while avoiding \pre- mature and preclush·e\ specialization in that area of concentration. These proposals .assume u rareful' examination of the teaehing- meth- ods used to implement these goals. With this new program an education at Union can become an invi·tation to the party of culti- vated men, not a wrap:Ped and sealed gift: it can become a means and manner of thought, not an end (or an ending) in itself .... Prl'sent Cunicular Patterns The absence of a rationale for the present [distribution] re- quirements led the Committee to criticize the College's present pat- tern of general education, not the strengths or weaknesses of in- ' ,\ rlividual courses. For the~E> reasons, quite asid~ from the need for a bold new program, the Committee has had the temerity to pro- po·se replacement of all the present requirements in general educa- tion ... .In conclusion, the Committee feels that the present pattern lacks excitement and is too modest in its limited educational goals. PROPOSAL A. Union College shall adopt a tltree-tet·m academic calendar to replace the two-semester calendar, effective September, 1966. Each term shall cover approx- imately ten weeks, exclusive of final examiuations. Fur- thermore, the Evening Division shall adjust its calendar to this new schedule. The recommended calendar consists of a fall term of ten weeks, a winter term of ten weeks, and a spring term of ten weeks, ex- ' elusive of examination periods and holidays ...• Yet, the \3-3\ lends itself to year-round acceleration without destroying the in- tegl·ity of the ten-months' academic approach. If admission at different times of the year becomes desirable, \3-3\ allows for modification easily .... 'The main a1·gument for the \3-3\ calendar rests on the conviction that the standard five-course student load involves too many separate preparations for good academic per- formance ... PROPOSAL B. Union College shall replace the semester credit-hour system with a plan under which the student completes a prescribed number of courses f<Jr graduation and the major under the three-term calendar, effective Sep- tember, 1966. The normal course load under this plan shall be three courses each term. PROPOSAL C. To graduate, a student shall complete sat- isfactorily a minimum of thirty-six (36) courses, shall ful- fill the requirements in Comprehensive Education, shall satisfactorily complete the requirements for a majo~ field of his choosing (including two-degree programs or Inter- departmental study pwgrams wltere applicable and as. ap- proved by the faculty), and shall meet any other obliga- tions such as participating in the physical education pro- gram, attending convocations, . and completing 4FROTC requirements when and as applicable. These reqUirements L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BAOG.EiS - RINGS • FAVORS - JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEOAI.S - TROPHII'!S The Goodrich-Duane Prize SpeiJ.k· ing Contest will he held on Wed- nesday evening, April 28, 1965 at 7:30 PM in N<>tt Memorial. All undergraduates are eligible. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room ·' Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syraeuse, N. Y. 13210 Opp. The Brownell Gate o.n Nott St. SENIORS! I) I) Please order your Cap i) and Gown immediately at the CAMPUS BOOKSTORE d DEADLINE: MAY 1st Open Daily 1 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. Have Your Watch Repaired Right! •.. Right Here! Bring it in and let our specialists look it over. Reliable service is our watchword. And for new beauty, re-style your watch with a smart- Krels!er WATCHBAND Time Center Jewelers 428 State St. FR 4~0183 3 ''A Report On The Curriculum''!) shall apply to students entering Union College in Septem- ber, 1966, and thereafter. For students already in course, the College will .permit them to fulfill graduation require- ments under pt•esent regulations or to elect the new .pro- gram, whichever they prefer. Where course changes in- fluence their program, the College will under no circum- stances institute new, additional requirements but will in~ dicate equivalent courses. After registrati<>n in the spring of 1968, this choice of an optional route will expire; and, as iu the case of transfer students, the College will indi- cate equivalencies for all courses successfully completed in accordance with the new requirements then in force. Faculty Load and Course Enrollments The design of the weekly schedule may raise questions. Basic- any, if we assume that most courses will meet fom· times a week, there are numerous way's in which to combine these meetin,gs. . . . The Committee recommends that. the College regards as an absolute maximum load per man eight courses (or their equivalents) during a three-term year. It hopes that the College may consider a seven- course load as a measure of relief from present heavy loads, but this depends upon other factors which will be discussed below .... Graduate courses now taught in the evening division are to be con- sidered as part ·Of the total teaching load. A seven-course load can be achieved with five additional faculty by inct·easing average class size to approximately 25. The Com- mittee l'ecommends [this as] the College's immediate goal. ... ' ··.·---:·:·. Would Eliminate Present Distribution Requirements Through a program of Comprehensive Education, Union College may fulfill its obligation to encourage the student to inquire, to appreciate, and to judge ·sagely, irrespective of the majo1' specialty upon which he concentrates. Fundamental to this concept is the relation of teacher and student as partners in an experience in discovery. Thus the plan is con·structed as a tutorial program: a few students meeting in con- tinuing and intimate contact with a scholar. Part. ()f the excite- ment would come from the adventure of a man, mature in his pro- fes::;ion, intu new but .z·elated fieJ.ds of knowledge, demonstrating to the students that education is truly a lifetime engag~ment. The College should give every encouragement to informality and ease in the preceptorial meetings. . . . The Committee hopes that this tutorial program will thus remedy .the di'sjointedness, if nut also the irrelevance, of the introductory courses now used to meet the distribution requirement. The continuation of Compre· hensive Education through the four year:s of study will also en- cuui~age the student to concei.ve of education ~s a continuing en- deavor and not as something to abandon as so<m as the authorities are satisfied that a mild attempt has been made to become gen- . . . .. . ., era·Jly educated. The Cuniculum of Comprehen• sive Educ!Ltion The freshman year of Com- prehensive Education should be a dramatic departure from the form and content ilf senior high school courses and should open a new range of questions for the entering student. It should be exciting; it s.hould probe; it should disturb. The second and third years ·should seek more ex- plicitly than at any other point in the four years the breadth which the contemporary scene demands .... With the senior course, the conversation about key problems continues in com- mon, for the Committee feels that far too often the senior year becomes so highly special- ized in content that students ..... , ,,, .. ,.,.. . , ....... ,.,···. have no opportunity to share TEARING DOWN THE OLD CURRICULUM: Will it produce new structures or just mud and crabgrass? their concerns in literate fash- ion beyond the reach <Jf the in- tellectual discipline of their O'Wl1 The Committee m·ges adoption of the resolutions which appem· below, to be conveyed as part of this document to the Board of Trustees: RESOLUTION NO.1. BE IT RESOLVED, that the nor- mal faculty load under the proposed three-course three· term calendar will consist initially of no more than eight courses or sections or their equivalent a year and that the College will make efforts to adjust the faculty load to the equivalent of seven or six courses or sections per year within a reasonable length of time. RESOLUTION NO.4. BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees be asked to seek assistance in the construction of the new courses through summer study grants, released time for the faculty directors of the th1·ee segments of Comprehensive Education, and such faculty additions as this program and a growth in enrollment suggest as ap- propriate. Comprehensive Education Fully mindful of the problems in any program of general edu- cation, the Committee nonetheless concluded that all students should share some common intellectual experiences, preferably throughout the four yea1·s normally spent in undergrad'!ate. studies. The rapid advance of kn<>w~edge :prevents any panoram1c v1.ew:, ~nd the need for intense and rtgorous exposure to· some one dtsctplme remains unquestioned. Yet, a liberal education must somehow reach beyond these limiting factors and cultivate among students • a deeper understanding of the breadth, as well as the depth, of human knowledge and human values than our present curriculum provides. Therefore, the Committee recommends a program of Compre- hensive Education. Under the present proposal, in the course of four years of Comprehensive Education, a student will have acquired a more substantial body of knowledge, become more familiar with the ~ev­ eral techniques of inquiry and analysis, a~d learned mor~ o~ him- self and his values than he can now learn e1ther through d1str1buted electives or in the typical required general education courses. HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL - CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL e CHARTER BUS Coin-op Cleaning 2.00 for 8 I bs. l J 8-12 Sweaters or 1 2 Sport Shirts or 10 pr. Slacks, etc. D & Sat Sheridan Plaza Up Rosa Rd. from Ellis OUR ATTENDANTS DO ALL THE WORK DAILY 8:30 A.M. - 9 P.M. Saturday Til 6 Dl 6-9866 . areas of concentration. To bring these concerns mto .focus and then to use them to b1idge the gap between the ac.ademtc. canypus and the world of public affai:J.;s: this appears as a Vltal obhgatwn of any program of gen~l'al education. ~ROPOSAL D. All students shall complete satisfactorily eight (8) term courses in Comprehensive Educati<?n as de· scribed in the Catalogue under whiclt the student enters Union College, The Major of Area of Concentration The Committee restates its recommendation that a major not exceed 60% of a student's total program as follows: PROPOSAL F. An area of concentration or a major at Union College shall consist of a minimum of twelve (12) ~ourses a~?-d a r:taximum of twenty-three (23) courses with- m the thuty-s1x course pattern, at least eight of whlch shall. be beyond t~e sophomor~ level, including all those requirements relatmg to the maJor and all required cognate coursc;s. At the department's discretion, foreigtt language proficiency may or may not be included in the requirements for the major. We ru;e all aware ?f th.e critical period through which the smaller p,nvate !!olleg~s m th1s country are now passing. Thus, it b.ecomes. mcreasmgly Important that the College delineate its cur- l'lculum m a manner that leaves no room for doubt ahout its com- mitme.nt t~ an. educational.pattern that places a premium on wi's- dom, 1magmat10n, a capacity for sympathy and C<l'mpassion and a value on r~fle~tive and di;:!Ci:pline.d thinking. Only then can Union 9ollege retam 1ts leadership m higher education. There is a risk m change, for none of us can prove conclusively that a new curric- ular pattern or a ?ew academic calendar will produce the goals we seek. Yet, there. 1s .an. equ~l risk in s~nding still. Union College has reached a PC?mt !n 1ts h1~tory when 1t must experiment, when it must re-emp~asize 1ts part1cular strengths and re~tify its weak- nesses, when It must demon:strate the vitality which a senior :private college can rally - when it must make the pursuit of excellence significant to the individual. .If this re:port brings f~·esh. vigor and new meaning to the liberal studies at Umon College, 1t Wlll have achieved its pUl'POSe. Henry Ferguson Winfred M. Schwa1•z Gardner M. Ketchum Theodore D. Lockwood H. Alan Nelson EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE Amazing new liquid plastic coating used on all types of sur- faces interior or exterior. Eliminates waxing when applied on Asphalt Tile, Vinyl, Linoleum, Vinyl Asbestos, HaTd Wood, and Furniture. Completely e~iminates painting when applied to Wood, Metal, or Concrete surfaces. This finish is also recom- mended for boats and automobiles. NO COMPETITION As these are exclusive formulas in demand by all businesses, industry and homes. No franchise fee. Minimum investment- $300. Maximum investment-$7,000. Investment is secured by inventory. Factory trained personnel will help set up your business. For complete details and descriptive literature write: CHEM-PLASTICS & PAINT CORP. 18'28 Locust St. Louis 3, Mo.

4 Qlournr Published Fridays during the school yeo.r by the Student Body ot Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional A<lll'ert!alng Representative: National ll.dvertlsing Service, Inc .. College Ptibllahers Representative. 420 Madis~n Ave .. N. Y. C. Ed I torlai Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Sche· nectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered in the Sche· nectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscription 15c a <·opy: $II a year delivered anywhere in the United States. l-H::'>IOR BOAIUl DARRY ~EWoL\::-\ •r,7 JEFFREY SPECTOR '6o. RICHARD Sll'T0.:-1 '66 ... ~lARK KASOWITZ '67.. .. ROBli:ltT S'I'OLZBI~RG ',; 7 ANDY Cli>LR '67 .............. .. PAl:JL SHERWIN '67 .... . ARNOLD KATZ '66 ...... .. ~[ATTFIEW KATZ '67 .. HENRY ·F'ERG\'SON '50 Alon J\flr-ey '65 .............. .. Lawrence Briskrna-n 'B7. Donald SC'hwa-rtz 'G7 ..... . Robert Ro:><..nlhRl '67 ... . .Jost>ph ~ha.c·t·Pr '1i 7 Stevt~tl ATkuff '67 ... \Villiam Lit .. bowitz 'G7 .. X at Stevms' • 68 .............. .. ~ i'7 -!H~ ~ i Edltor-in-Chief . :li'';'-~1884 --···· ......... ~uslness J\.lanager :;4G~~Ii:lll ......... l1anaglng Editor ................. NPws Editor ................ Fe-ature Editor ................................ Sports Editor .................... Literary Editor ...... Consulting Editor ................... Page Editot' ....... F'aeulty Advisor ,Jl :'>IIIH IJIJ.\IW . . .. ........ Cont rlbutlng Editor Assistant Features Editor .. ... Assistant Literary Editor ........................ .:5ubseriptiun ~In..nager ~a-tiona! .\d\'t>rtisit\l.!!. ::\lanaget• ... Cin·ulatiun :\Ianager .. . ...... Photographer ................ Sports Photographer Valley Of Fatigue There is no reliable way to evaluate an experiment in education. Checking on alumni twenty years after gradu- ation to see if they are fulfilling themselves as human be- ings is hardly feasible, and the possibilities for accurate prediction of future achievement are dim. The only vague- ly valid measure of a program's effect is the excitement which it generates on campus. The proposals of the Cur- riculum Committee have potential for creating such new vitality, lmt must still face many stumbling-blocks. Union's present vitality is at low ebb. Not only are students falling asleep at lectures, but professors fall asleep at their colleagues lectures, and quite often they seem to fall asleep during their own lectures. What is the cause of this lethargy? The Curriculum Report blames the absence of innovation over the years, bred largely by the two term, five course college structure. The first part of the report's two pronged attack aims at the institution of a three term, three course cal- endar. The immediate shock of this change will be a forced reQrganization of all courses to fit the new package. Hope- fully, such a review will result in an extensive re-evalua- tion of course value, with possible intergration of various courses, or revision and updating of content. However, the three term calendar can solve no prob- lems by itself. It is all too likely that we will merely be reshuffling· the same deck and repackaging the old product to fit the new calendar's demands, unless a sincere effort is made to avoid this catastrophe by the faculty. It is essential that the faculty recognize the present deficiencies in course content as well as organization and attempt to correct them. During the coming year, if the report is passed, there will be no substitute for very hard work and very open minds in reconstituting not only the structure, but the substance of our present system. T~1e second prong of the attack formulates totally new studies, and can be claimed as unique by Union College. These are the courses in Comprehensive Education. The distinguishing factor here will be the so-called \Middle Years\ group which would include four courses designed to relate the major concentration of a student to other fields of study. Here again, however, the course content is very cloudy. The report is written in such nebulous language that the guidelines offered are only of the most general form. Thus, the responsibility will fall upon the faculty to innovate programs which meet the idealistic frame of the report. The effectiveness of Comprehensive Education will de- termine the entire program's great success or colossal fail- ure. The danger exists that these courses, particularly in the Freshman year, will be so diverse and superficial that they will teach nothing. Ephemeral courses will destroy Comprehensive Educa- tion. Courses that are not revised will render a three-term calendar essentially useless. As it stands, the report es- tablishes a laudable plan for the future. But unless the plan is followed with insight and creativity, the attempt to inject life into this campus will be abortive. Lump • lD the Throat Two events of the past week should put an unwanted and unnecessary lump in the administration's throat. First, the most recent A.A.U.P. ratings of teacher salaries showed that another State University - Stoney- brook - has leapt into the AA category. Its average pay is $17,840, and its minimum is $13,790. Union's rating is CC. Next, Professor Paul Kurtz of the Philosophy Depart- ment, a man. who is considered by students one of the most stimulating teachers at Union, informed the administra- tion that he was leaving for the State University at Buf- fa1o. His salary will increase 50 o/o and his teaching time will decrease 50%. The offer was based on his record of scholarly publication which Union virtually disregards. The problem is obvious- it is money. The answer, too, is obvious. We should stop spending on educational trimmings, like dormitories, and start spending on educa- tion in the form of a larger faculty with more pay. .John 0/A .Wain Writes Dreary World NOVELIST JOHN WAIN By Donald Schwartz It is not without reason that the \Angry Young Man\ label has been firmly affixed to the name of ~ohn Wain, for the cot·pus of h1s work bears the un- mistakably bitter taste of deeply instilled cynicism; a dark com- mentary on a d1•eary world. Like J olm Braine, whose Room at the Top reflects a grey-tinged out- look on life, Wain's first novel Bm·u in Captivity, similar!; stands as a fictionalized state- ment of its author's bleak con- ception of reality. This can per- haps be best se>en through Wain's delineation of Charles Lumley the novel's principle character· ~ man with \no illusions about the diyision of human beings into crrck.et teams called classes.\ He desp1ses \the chaos of the Wel- fare State, the rise of upstarts and the decline of healthy tradi~ ti_on.\ In a.r;t attempt to place hrmself outside of society, Lum- ley deliberately undergoes humili- at!ons in a checkered career as wmdow washer, smuggler. or- derly, chauffeur, bouncer and finally, well-paid gag man'. Yet one wonders if alienation is in: deed a solution; if cutting the Gordian-Knot is ever a perman- ent expediency. Nonetheless, Born Campus Thursday, April 15- iu Captivity certainly is a sub- stantial contribution to those books written in the pessimis- tically-picaresque mode. Aggressively Plain Man As might be expected, John Wain's critical works ring with the same overtones of pessimism. His manner is agg1·esively plain- man, rathet· self-consciously blowing the gaff on academic and sc~ial humbug. Thus, he writes of Dy:an Thomas: \The third subject, religion, seems to me Thomas's worst pitch; he never succeeds in making me feel that he is doing more than thumbing a life from it.\ This is not to say, though, that the old doctrine :•ar~ is difficul~, criticism is easy\ n.; JUstly app!Jcable in this case . For if his criticism is not as se~rching as some of that being wr1tten by contemporary schol- al·s, it bears the merit of an ex- ceedingly wide range, slicing through the usual trammels of highly specific \lit. crit.\ More imp.ortant, Wain can exhibit very trpr~al. strength in critical ap- preciatiOn; a generous, high sen- sibility which is not afraid of :bol~ comprehensive statement. Hence. he writes in an essay on Arnold Bennett: \His melancholy was not the reaction of the ;man who is 'undisturbed' by life hut of one who is, if anything, f;ozen into it by a semi-paralytic suf- fering, of which the obverse is his frequently jarring jauntiness. But the irritating cocksure note is never permitted to enter . . . his major novels.\ Above all Wain is concerned with the gen~ eral health of literature in his eral time, with the situation of writers today. Iconoclasm The general perspective of ~ain's poetry can perhaps be 11lustrated most clearly through the citing of some of his titles: \Gentleman Aged Five Before the Mirror,\ \On Reading Love Poetry in the Dentist's Waiting Room,\ \Poem Feigned to Have Been Written by an Electronic Brain.\ Again, the deliberate iconoclasm and the faint shad-ow of assumed ordinariness some- times weaken his works. This especially manifests it self in the \Electronic Brain\ poem. Calendar 7:00-Address: Mr. A. Parker; United World Federalists· H.H.S.L. ' 8:30-Con'\ocation: Profe'ssor Andrew Hacker of Cornell Uni- VPl'sTty; \What Happened to American Conservatism?\; Memonal Chapel; sponsored by the Political Forum 9:30-Reception for Professor Hacker; H.H. Friday, April 16- 7 & 9-Film Series: \Forbidden Games\; E.E. 22 Saturday, April 17- 2:00-Lacrosse Game; union Varsity vs. Wesleyan; Daley Field 2:30-Baseball Game; Union Varsity vs. Pratt; Alexander Field Sunday, Apri118- 6:30 A.M.-Easter Dawn Service Tuesday, April 20- 2:30-Baseba,ll Game; Union Varsity vs. RPI· Alexander Field 7:00-IFC Meeting; H.H. ' . 8:00-IEE Meeting; E.E. 22 8:00-Newman Club Meeting Wednesday, April 21- 3:00-Track Meet; Union Varsity vs. Trinity 3:00--Lacrosse Game; Union Varsity vs. St. Lawrence 4:30-0uting Club Meeting; H.H.S.L. Thursday, April 22- _11:30-C~nvocation: John Wain; Poetry Reading; M.C. Fr1day, April 23- 2:30-Tennis Match; Union Varsity vs. Vermont Saturday, April_ 24-: .. . . . 1:00-Tau Beta Pi Meeting; Old Chapel ALVORD'S SHELL STATION 187 Nott Terrace BRAKES TUNE UP MUFFLERS WHEEL BALANCE Dl 6-9847 FERRO PHARMACY 575 N~ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE BUDGET TRAVEL TO and FROM EUROPE BY SHIP (Soulhamplon-leHavre-Amslerdam) VIA THE POPULAR S. S. CASTEL FELICE. 4 SAILINGS TO EUROPI FROM NEW YORK June 16 and July 8/$175 up August 19 1nJ Sepr. 8/Si!P up 4 SAILINGS FfiOM EUROPE June 4 anr/ June ~7/$129 up August 8 anJ August 2P/$17S up S.S. CASTEL FELICE feature• \big ship\ attractions, Air• conditioned. Delectable Con· tinental cuisine. Outdoor swim- ming pool. Comfortable cabins. Deck space galore. Entertain- ment and orientation programs For lnform~tlo11 rmd renrvations see your TrGnl Agent or write to SCHENECTADY TRAVEL BUREAU, INC. 424 StQie St. Phone 377-8506 Agents for all leading Airlines, Steamship, Railroads end car rental companies. Man made me, no·,\· I speak to man. He fears Whole truth. The brain d~fies it. . . Yes, switch me off for fear I should explode: Yes, switch me o:ff for fear ~·es switch me off for fear yes switch me off fur fear yes switch (finis) On the other hand, the cumula- tive effect of Wain's poetry is one of conside1·able strength. As Poetry Magazine has stated, \his real strength reveals itself in inciclentt?-ls, in the way, for ex- ample, he repeats and varies a line, teasing it into new shape.\ It is a lie that time can heal a wouncl. Thursday, April 1.5, 1965 Scar tissue hardens, but the nerve is there, Like some grim Crusoe ever- more marooned. However cauterized your .fl.esh has been, However long your holidays from pain, It is a Iie to say time heals it clean, And when you lie, you wound yourself again. John Wain seems almost ~ lat- ter-day Robinson Jeffers; a rna11 whose vision is singularly dark. Yet, whether or not we agree with thnt vision, we must agree that the darkness has often moulded words into writing· of insight and beauty, LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American f'ood 1125 BARRETTT ST. SchenectQdy Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks ond Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bor Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES The GALLEY 1735 VanVranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOW.N lSc HAMBURGER HOT DOGS l5c (with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS - - - ___________________ 20c French Fries _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 12c Thick Shakes ___________________ 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! For three Generations. Those Who Know. Have been · recommending - HERSHEL MAlJRICE B. WALTER Manriue B. Graubart & Soag \'3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY By The app1 regular pr Chrnese at fesscr Wi li ,, by •I Klemm, ch[ ment of Me ft'ssol· Woe ·1ext sernest ing load wi Union Colle . \ e1·sity of J In descril ution, Pr plainecl that · Jar instruct 11eighboring f they WOL in t~1·s ~ro.i• t' e nro<rran ies.\ Of tl his op·port .I., Rus and Union; l.'n:o:1 took Chines Union Cc Chinese as graduate c year when : istant Min' form Churcl it. Both da~ were formec lment of spite of th course wa~ year under \Mrs. Judy : Next yem in the Elem is expected and an ad< ~ram the r he taking ir elementary he taught c a;mphasis ot instruction. will be opel eluding inco tsemester wl g'I'OUnds in] Professor his deep s~ F( 64 A Gree Ful •• After 6 nev DR For love's engage mer heart, she compel th< ArtCarved ning thee~ they deligr tured, they Keep this • Art Carved free illustrE 45th Street

1965 but the ever- .fl.esb bolidays heals ou wound ~ lat- a ma11 dark we agree agree often of Bar s ).If ,, 'I ThursdCiy, April 15, 1965 5 .. ,----------------------~-------------,.-----------.,------------------------ Movie Asian Progratn Gains 1 • (Continued from Page 1) s. c. • • • • • • (Continued from Page 1) A chinese P~o~ ~e' ~'Sor friends with their young son. As ' ' 'J I ~~ · they have never learned the nor- ter-fraternity council, Dean of Students. and -Todd, Dies; the Trustee Emeritus Had Long Career By Marty Karnzan 4>-·~-------- __ ____ __ _ mal games of youth, the children 'II The appointment of the first de·velop their own form of play. regular professional teacher of the opportunity to expand the They build a cemetery for dead Chwese at Union College, Pro- language program to include pets and insects, and decorate it Primaries, Petitions Down Hiram C. Todd, a Union Trustee Emeritus, died Tues- Dean Pollock expressed concern d A ·1 6 t th f 88 H b · 1876 d over future student leadership. ay, pn • a e age o · · e was orn lll · · an The election committee pointed studied at Union before the turn of the century. · 1 w Chinese. \W. e are one of the few with relics from a church and a fesscr W1 iam oo, has been an- '11 ~ 10 unced by Professor Frederick undergraduate schools in the Vl · age graveyard. out that this year election pri- - ----- A participant in both the Span- maries dropped by 85%, peti- · 1 ish-American and First World Klemm, chairman of the Depart- country teaching it,\ he declared, Forbidden Games has been ' ment of Moder11 Languages. Pro- just as we were one of the called an unfair portrait of the ft•ssor Woo will join the staff pioneers to introduce Russian into peasantry of France. It has been · 1 ext semester although his teach- the college curriculum in 1947.\ described a:s morbid and depres- ing load will be divided between Japanese and Arabic were also· sing. However, it has also been Union College a,nd the State Uni- considered for this program but, called \one of that small body of \ e 1 ·sity of New York at Albany. at the present, no plans for these film experiences that does not tions for office by 35%, and that i Wars, Todd gained a national class meetings with candidates 1 reputation for his role in the im- failed due to snarse attendance. : peachment proceedings against William Mc-Govern, tax com- ' Governor Sulzer in 1913 as well mittee chairman, announced that as for his role as a special in- interviews for next year's mem- vestigator into government cor- In describing this unusual sit- other languages have been made. leave you quite the same.\ hers are being held now. ruption for th.ree New York State . tion, Professor Klemm ex- By preparing students in Chinese I plained that before hiring a regu- on the undergraduate level, op- lar .instrurtor in Chinese, several portunities are advanced for sum- 11eighboring colleges were asked mer institutes and upper gradu- Prof. Mozley Incurs Stroke f they would like to participate ate study. in t~1·s ~roje~~. designed to enrich ----~-- La:e last week Professor Wal- t' e nrogram of Far Eastern stud- Kurtz ter Mozley, associate professol' . ies.\ Of the five colleges given a • • . of biology, sustained a serious ;his op·portunity' Albany State, cerebral hemorrhage. He is cur- R.P.I., Russell Sage, Skidmore,. (Continued from Page 1) rently under care at Ellis Hos- Pre-Registration All students, other than pres- ent term II industrial adminis- tration majors, term II chemistry majors, term II five year men, and four year civil, electrical, and mechanical engineers, should re- port to their advisers for prepar- ution of schedules as follows: and Union; only Albany State and and teaching toads did not ap- pita! in Schenectady. l'n:o:1 took advantage of it. pre :iab:y change in the next few Present Sophomores and Juniors Chinese Turnout Small years our competitive position in Be::ause of his hypertensive -Between Monday, Union College began offering acquiring and keeping excellent condition, it is not expected that Chinese as part of its under- \·acuity members will be in great Professor Mozley will return to Apr.il 19, and Friday, April 30 graduate curriculum only last jeopardy. \Union's policy must teaching at the college. Instead,. Present freshmen - Between year when Rev. Stanley Yin, As- ·hange,\ he maintained, \if we he will probably dev.o!e his ti~e f Monday, May 3, and Fri., May 7. istant Minister of the First Re- are to keep serious profes'sional to !'~;Search. ~nd Y'. r1bng on h1s I. Students. who do not complete form Church, volunteered to teach scholars who are interested in favoute top1c. sna1ls. pre-registration on schedule are it. Both day and evening classes writing and research.\ Mozley is considered one of the subject to a late registration fee were formed with a combined en- Kurtz Not First world's authorities on snails. He of $10.00. \ollment of seven students. In Prof. Kurtz is not the first has studied their life cycles and spite of this small turnout, the :1ember of Union's faculty to be physiology in all the continents Applications for orientation course was again offered this snatched away by the state uni- of the world, and has contributed counsellors are now available in year under a differE>nt instructor, versities in New York. Rollo much to the knowledge of snails the Dean of Students Office in Mrs. Judy Lee. dandy, who was at Union for as disease carriers. As a result Old Gym Hall. These positions \' Next year, however, enrollment the academic year 1960-61, is of his work, the professor has are open to all members of the in the Elementary Chinese course presently the chairman of the developed new methods of snail- student body except participants · is expected to be about one dozen, Philosophy Department at Buf- bone disease control, and new in varsity soccer and football. and an additional two students falo. In addition, Profs. Bell and techniques of nutrition and shel- Applications must be returned by tOfrom the present seq)lence will Denise of the Mathematics De- tering to enable men to live com- Friday, April 23, 1965. For fur- oe taking independent work The · partment accepted offers at state fortably in high arctic environ-. ther information contact Ed elementary course will initially university centers two years ago, ments. Clark, DI 6-9973. be taught on an oral level with and Profs. Hemenway of Physics d'mphasis on tapes and personal and Riedel of Political Science ' instruction. Elementary Chinese accepted offers at Albany State will be open to all students, in- last year. Thus in the last three eluding incoming Freshmen, next :1cademic years Union has lost a ester who have strong back- .o:al of five faculty members to ds in language. Lhe state university system. This Professor Klemm expressed repre'sents over 5% of the entire his deep satisfaction at having ;;,.a;::::~;:u;:,.l::;:Y~;:::;,;::,;::;:,::;,:::;,;::::,;::.:;::;:,.::;,:::;,;::.,;::;:, ::;,::;,::::;.,;::,;::;:, ~ FOR SALE 64 AUSTIN HEALY MARK Ill Green Convertible, Fully Equipped EX 3-3327 FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus THE NEW MODERN IMPERIAL 400 MOTEL HOMER AND MARY SAMPSON Your Co-owner Hosts 927-933 STATE STREET I SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK HIRAM C. TODD Applications for membership in the Gatesmen are available in the Admissions or .Student Activ- ities office. Completed forms will be due on Monday, April 26. Membership will be open to a limited number of present Sopho- mores and Juniors, while there is room for ten Freshmen. For in- formation contact Jeff Ratner 372-9759. I governors, Franklin Roasevelt, Lehman, and Dewey. His most important case was the investiga- tion of why a New York Grand ·Jury exonerated the murderers of Samuel Drukman. His prying disclosed vast police corruption. Although he attempted to have the Kings County district attor- ney F. X. GeGghan removed, the system proved too great for him and his efforts failed. The New 'fork Times said of him in the aftermath of the case, \He is not a man to let any clue escape him.\ Todd's last investigation was <luring the .governorship of Dewey in which he, in 1944, examined payroll padding by members of the New York State Legislature. Todd is surv.ived by two daughters, a son, and a grandson. The burial took place in Saratoga Springs, his residence for many years. Report. • • (Continued from Page 1) their courses from those now available. Freshman entering in September 1965, however, would be able to choose which curricu- lum to follow after the 1965-Hl66 school year. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranl<en Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week ' G • 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y . 15181 372-4701 After 6 P.M. April 19 on Dl 6-1763 For 20th Century Individualists! new ..f.\r!Carved® D~AM Dli\_1\10ND ~J'TGS For love's sake any girl would accept even an ordinary engagement ring- squat-lo-oking, uninspiring. But, in her heart, she hopes for an extraordinary ring which will compel the admiration of all. ArtCarved Dream Diamond Rings are extraordinary, Shun- ning the excessive metal and gingerbread ·of ordinary rings they delight the modern eye. Pure in form, elegantly sculp- tured; they express the taste of our time. Keep this ad for comparison! See 0ur new styles at your ArtCarved jeweler before you decide. ::=~eh from $150. For free illustrated folder write to ArtCarved, uept C, 216 East 45th Street, New York, N. Y. 10017. See Dream Diamond Rings only at these Authorized ArtGarv~o Jewelers NEW YORK Schenectady - Maurice B. Grabort Sherburne - Turner Jewelry Store Southampton -Corwin's Main Street Jewelers Springville- Robert H. Engel Syracuse- Albert's Jewelry, Inc. Syracuse - E. W. Edwards & Son Wellsville- Fred A. Drew, Jeweler White Plains - Bramley & Co., Inc. NEW YORK CITY Brooklyn - Nilsen's Jewelers Brooklyn - B. Senter Inc. Freeport- lloyd's Jewelers, Inc. Manhattan - Clive Jewelers Inc. Manhattan - Dial Jewelers Manhattan - Dyckman Time Shop Manhattan -Maurice l. Kester Jewelers, Inc. Manhattan - Schwartz Bros. Manhattan - Morris Weigler Manhattan- Wexler, M. & Sons Ridgewood -. Isaacs Jewelers Staten Island (Great Kills) - Paul's Jewelers Staten Island (Port Richmond )-Russell-Reed, Inc. Queens Village - Jaeger Jewelers the resort world of the Deansgate man Opens the week-end season with a great sport coat that malres its mark, in a lightweight but sturdy oxford weave of fine calibre in 75% Arnel * triacetate/25% rayon ... with patch and flap poclcets ... the greatest natural shoulder in America. New colors too. 35.00 1599 Union Street

Concordy Sports CURRICULUM PAGE 3 .J, : II· BOOKS Page 2 Varsity Stickers To Battle Wesleyan Dutchnten Netmen Blast Drew 7-2 In Opener On Daley Field Saturday De~nolish The Union College netmen successfully ope]:)ed their season here , Wednesday, early defeating Drew 7-2. Winning five of the six singles matches, the Dutchmen had the contest in the bag by the time the doubles rolled around. Nevertheless, they failed to let up, winning· two of the three double's matches, for the 7-2 fi.nal. By Howard A. Goldberg Saturday at 2 P.M. Union College's lacrosse team opens its season against a power ladened Wesleyan University team which has five games already under its belt. Drew, 9-2 By Eric Singer Number one man Ric Apter won handily in his singles match, Following last Sa·turday's ·open- :6-3, 6~1. Number two, Mark Unterberg, tl'iumphed by the saiii.'e ing-day victory over tile future count. Pete Walker, number three, won, 6-3, 7-5, as did Chris Kom- . sailors of King's Point, the isat·jevsky, number four, 6-0, 6-2. Sandy Levine, five, lost the only Dutchmen nine retm·ned to Union .singles match for Union, 6-3, 0-6, 1-6. Aaron Rutherf{)rd, six, how- to open their home basebaH sea- ever, returned the home forces to their winning ways, 6~4, 3-6, 6-3. son yesterday against Drew. The Apter, Unterberg Star Garnet won the game, ·by a score of 9-2. The game :was not impress·ive~ In fact, it was really over after about twenty minutes, the time it took for the first inning to end. By that time Union had managed to put across eight runs, with a minimum amount of llits In the doubles, Apter and t:ntet·berg teamed for a hard fought victory over their Drew opponents, 4-6, 8~6, 6-2. Bill Danchuk and John Farnum al'so won, 6-2, 6-1. Komisarjevsky and Levine, how- ever, fell to Drew in a closely contested match, 6-4, 4-6, ·5-7. Next the Gal'llet plays Syracuse, there next Tuesday. The Orangemen defeated Union last year, 7-2, and should provide solid opposition again this season. and a maximum amount of Drew .• ------------------------------; errors. Although the issue had · long been decided, the teams stHl . managed to struggle •through two : · more hours of uneventful base- 1ik~e Out: ball. Even though Wesleyan is load- ed this year and has much more game experience than our own sticket·s. these are no reasons to believe Lhat an upset could not occur. A vktory Saturday would have to be terh1ed an upset be- t'ause Wesleyan took a trip to the ''big time\ (Baltimore area) where lacrosse makes its ·home, wn! didn't get obliterated as most uorthern schools do. They lost to the University of Maryland 11-4 ~md to Washington College 12-7, but beat Loyola College 12-4. ~one uf these games counted on their record, but Wesleyan has alread:y had two winning league <>ncounters with the University of 1\Iassachusttts and Middlebury College. Varsity lacrossemen pt•actiee offensi:ve tactics on Daley Field. To Err Is Human Alumni Action Constant Improvement On the other hand, our own ;:,tickmen have not been resting on what laurels they have. Im- provement in every phase of the game will he needed to improve upon last years 4-5-1 record, and this reporter endsions that im- provement and hopes to see it displayed to its full ach·antage against Wesleyan. The C niun team is far from being inexperienced and this should be the year for them to jell. The probable starting line- up consists of all lettermen from last year, and there are only two ;;ophomores, Gary Raden on the second midfield and Ware Fuller on the third midfield, who are expected to see more than spot duty. Bob Dickman will be in the goal, backed up by Lyn Parker, who recently took up goal tend- ing along with his goal scoring iob on attack. Bob DeMichele. de- fenseman, Ray List, and Tom Morgan will have the job of stop- ping Wesleyan close attackmen. 'The first midfiPld will include the e\·er improving Marc Hurlbut, co-captain Brenden Hutchinson; and Howard Wiedman, who will do the facing off. On the attack will be the last :year's high scorer, John Hann (13 goals, 8 assists), Jeff Schultheis, who is the other co-captain, and Randy West by on the crease. Second midfield will be Larry Dittleman, Vic Fazio, and Gary Raden. Cliff Henrickson, Ware Fuller, and Tom Spencer make up the third midfield. Whether Coach Allison plays a fourth midfield will de- pend upon the weather, the num- ber of midfields Wesleyan uses and how the other midfields shape up in practice. Blood on Field Don't be surprised if you see blood in the eyes of the varsity as they take Daley Field Satur- day, before a big crowd because a bit of revenge should be in the offing after the drubbing Wes- leyan gave us last year (15-1). Certain basic fundamentals wi.ll have to be adhered to by two of the three participants of the game for the Garnet to come out on top. The three groups that partici- pate in every sporting event for athletic teams are the audience, more commonly known as the crowd; the home team, here rec- ognizable as the Garnet; and the visiting team, Wesleyan. The crowd will have to have two basic qualities for it to contribute to thet victory. First, it will have to CAMP COUNSELORS • • • • CAMP SCHODACK NASSAU, NEW YORK Boys and Girls Overnight Camp, Positions Available: TENNIS COUNSELOR GOLF COUNSELOR WATERFRONT DIRECTOR (Must have Instructors) GENERAL COUNSELORS HORSEBACK RIDING INSTRUCTOR Contact PAUL KROUNER, 27 Van Schoick Ave., Albany 438-3210 CHINO PANTS CONTINENTAL and IVY MODELS PERMANENTLY CREASED Guaranteed Wrinkle free ... No Ironing • This garment will give you the best wash and wear results you have ever enjoyed or your money back. • Smortly styled, tailored for comfort. TAN OLIVE BLACK Sizes 29 to 42 4.98 & 5.95 WE GlADLY CASH YOUR CHECKS • 334 State Street By Audy Colb be big. Second, it will have to . While the Garnet put on a • be noisy in rooting for the Gar.-~ fairly impressive exhibition, , net. about the most that can be saidi'-----------------------------J The second participant, the of Drew is that they tried, and With the many innovations in Starzenski, 78, coached lacrosse home team or the Gamet, will even this was questionable at sporting events which the athletic at Union from 1924 to 1927 and have to be mentally and physic- times. Of Union's original .eight department has offered the Union then from 1949 to 1950. He is ally up for the game. They will runs, not many were earned; and student, this could well be termed a member of the lacrosse Hall of have to rip into a well drilled, the men of Drew CoUege com- the \year of the first-annual.\ Fame. Hal Van deCar, who expedenced, high-scoring visit- mitted a host of errors in the one In the winter the swimming team played for Starzenski and coached ing team, Wesleyan, from the inning alone, not to mention any- met both Oneonta College and the Dutchmen in 1957 also at- very start. The Garnet will have thing of numerous unofficial mis- University of Vermont for the tended the event. to control the game by controlling cues. The only really solid hit first time, the wrestling team This article couldn't be com- the ball. There is no better way the Dutchmen got in this inning held its first home ICAC meet, plete without mention of the var- to control the ball than by con- was a line shot single to left by and last Saturday Union alumni sity squad. Co-Captain Jeff tinually coming up with the loose Greg Olson, which the left fielder lacrosse players met the '65 edi- Schultheis and John Hann each 'J bails. managed to bobble, all<>\''ing Greg tion of Coach Allison's squad for! contributed three goals each, If this technique is so import- to take second. a first-annual grad-student la- i Randy Westby popped for two ant, one would think that Wes- Gary Brown, Coach Lawrence's crosse contest. The varsity goals and Vic Fazio, Larry Dit- leyan must do a pretty good job choice to start the game, went romped 13-1, but if the enthus- t eman, Stu Dym, scored one 9 of picking up loose balls if they an impressive eight innings, pick- iasm of the crowds was any indi- each. The lone Alumni goal was were 10-1 last year and off to ing up his first win of the young cation, next year should offer a scored by Freshman Lee Schnei- a good start this year. No doubt second-annual stick game. der. Wesleyan must do a good job of season. Garry pitched. no-hit ball * ,, ~' contro ling the ball by scooping through four innings, until he More interesting than the play Th d . . t' 'il fl . · yielded a Texas League single in of the varsity men, was the ac- 1 e secon spring mnova 10 _TI through, by rppmg, by faking the fifth. Frank d'Alloird finish- tion and even appearance of the c oes ~ot come fro~ the Ath.l~trc and by playing together-all eel un the ninth innin.,., commend- alumni. The top alumni perform-: plannmg board. It lS the decrs.wn techniques used in grabbing the \' ., of WRUC to rebr()adcast from I h I ably picking up three quick outs. ance was registered by Dr. Gerry: . . 1 t ,,arsi!t Ja- bal · But even t ough Wes eyan Also worthy of praise w-as the Jameson '55 of Schenectady who, tape, se\ eta! se.ec Y u may rlo a g·ood job on loose balls, Garnet defense, although they,! was. credited with 28 saves as crosse and baseball :ol?d con:ests. there is no rule which says that too, were guilty of miscues. goalie. Bill Bowman returned Ken ~ ~erbach, who ISm charge of a team of equal or lesser ability While the Union batte1·s didn't from White Plains to attack the the pwJ~ct, hc_>pes th.at. the broa?- can not come un with more loose break down any fences, they did goal with the same fervor that c~s~s wtll s.hmulate mterest m o balls than a -supposed power- C'ome through with enough hits won him All-American honors in Umon athletics so that more stu- housE'. There is only one rule con- so that they would probably have 1964. The captain of the 1961 ' dents wtll a.ttend not only home cerning loose balls in lacrosse, won even without so much co- squad, which had a 4-8 record,, p-ame~ but Ioad cont~sts as well. and I hope that the Garnet can operation from the Drew defense. Bob Fuller, returned from Flint,' r.he tttle of ~he show IS no~ yet ~e- be hospitable enough Saturday to So the Dutchmen nine is thus Michigan, to play defense. ~tded but Will l;Je someth;pg hke teach it to Wesleyan. To para- far undefeated, their record now . ~he Game of the \Yeek. There phrase the rule somewhat: That standing at 2 _ 0 , following last Surpnse App.e~rance 1 wrll be t?-O commercials, .and ~hee team that wants the loose ball, week's 5-4 victory over King's The mo~t surpnsmg appear-' game Wlll be taped with hv gves out and gets it. By taking Point, in which Rich Crooks pick- ance, . whrch transformed the 1 . spor~s~asters under actual game • control of the game by control- erl up the win. How Ion.,. Union game mto .a New York Yankee- cond1t10n~. Best of ,luck, Ke.n, a_nd 1 ing the loose balls, victory will b t Jd t d WRUC ot ng sp01ts m will be able to maintain such an ype o - rmers- ay-game, was , m prom 1 - be just around the goal for the impressive slate will depend that of Vic Starzenski of Galway. I terest at Union. Garnet. lurgely upon the Union batters' ability to hit. They cannot rely RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT on as much help from their fu- DRUG SUNDRIES ture opponents as they t·eceived FOUr-.JTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS Wednesday. BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CEllOPHANE NOVELTIES RENTALS, GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER CO~ Successor to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Establl•hed 1 888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenoctady 5, N. Y. Patronize Our Convocations TiiD.-; Ct;nl.-;r J.-;w.-;IE .. ~ YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR4-0183 STORAGE AVAILABLE WINTER GARMENTS STORED FOR FULL SEASON ONLY $2.95 + Reg Cleaning Price Fully Insured Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE - FR 4-519~ Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank r···· ............................. ,,.,....,. ................ i t DEWITT'S ~ Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118. 120 JAY STREET , ....................... ·~·· ........... ...._.. ............... ·' Genuine India Bleeding Madras SPORTCOATS Traditional Natural Shoulder Toiloring 29.95 & 32.50 oAve·s §quir:e ljlJnp ~ 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 Tues. &. Thurs. 'til 9 Vol.94 On~ and Riel: classes o for presi ing Thon i·· 124 victc • tin S. Ph The man clal :. · juniors 1~ The res~,; other offic Class of running ur ident, rece: office of Spencer n< ·, old L. Ka1 incumbent' Michele, \ treasurer, De c:ass of vice;.,presid trelf~urer ' ert .. W. B votes in a1 dential ele received J Abood's 7< and Georg Richard A the office Class of presidentia decided by tor officer: 'were dec;il bush recei votes cast feating GE t candidate number of ander, wh Holmes 16 secretary. cei~ing 151 ald L. De: of treasun Primarie Representa Thursday, . dection wi April 26. Stude On Thur will be a in Memori~ ~ the candid: offices wit forms. The will .. be hel Ca@..idates retii.:t.y of t be announ< be> held on ~ All upp€ including tl respective their frate and 7:30 P All upp dormitory : tween 6:30 polling pla the fourth Richmond l lounuge. . Class of '61 College L01 7:30 P.M.

.), 1: il'· Ill 2 here , the six by the to let up, al. match, the sanw Kom- the only six, how- 6-3. fought and how- The solid Colb lacrosse 1927 and He is Hall of who coached also at- be com- the var- Jeff each '·' each, for two Dit- one 9 goal was Schnei- 'il Athletic decision from la- u contests. charge of broad- in more stu- home as well. yetde- like There and the with live game, Ken, and sports in- + • ......,. ·' Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 94- Nil. 22 SCHENECTADY, N. Y.FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1965 PRICE 1 S CENTS One Vote Margin Brubeck And Rock 'n Roll Stars D~~!~~~9.-!£!':~!.!~~~er. To Revolutionize Spring Weekend and Richard M. Corrigan were elected presidents of the classes of '66, '67, '68 respectively~ Two of the elections for president were divided by one vote, with Seifert beat- . ing Thomas L. Morgan 69-68, and Corrigan scoring a 125- 124 victory overStephenC. Walker. Parker defeated Mar- • tin S. Pinson by a 143..:51 vote margin. The turn-out of voters was the greatest for the fresh- man class (249), with sophomores second (194), and · juniors last (137). The results of the elections for other officers were as follows: S M Class of '66-Morgan Eames, .• · Cfle orse running unopposed for vice pres- ident, received 110 votes. For the To An. alyze office of secretary, Thomas F. Spencer narrowly defeated Arn- old L. Katz, receiving 70 to the As •. an War incumbent's 65. Robm't M. De- Michele, who ran unopposed for treasurer, received 107 votes. Decisive Victories c:ass of '67-The election of vice;._president, secretary, and trel'i~urer were all decisive, Rob- ert·· W. Benjamin received 154 votes in an unopposed vice-presi- dential election, Jack R. Stokvis received 122 votes to Donald Abood's 74 votes for secretary, and George A. Kates defeated Richard A. Clemens, 110-86, for the office of treasureF. Class of '68-Aside :from the presidential election, which was decided by one vote, the elections tor officers for the class of '68 \<:ere dec;iJsive. Stephen Ritter- bush received 162 of the 244 votes cast for vice president, de- feating Gary D. Johnson. The candidate receiving the most number of votes was Sandy Alex- ander, who defeated John C. Holmes 168-77 for the office of secretary. Bernard C. Cohen, re- ceiYing 151 votes, defeated Don- ald L. DeMichele for the office of treasurer. Primaries for Student Council Representatives were held on Thursday, April 22, and the final dection will be held on Monday, April 26. Student Body l\leeting By Robert Paul Hoffman Wayne Morse, Democratic sen-· utor from Oregon, will address members of the college and the community Tuesday night, May 4, at 8:00 P.M. in Memorial Chapel. Senator Morse's talk, sponsored by the Student Coun- cil, will deal wjth American for- 'The Dave Brubeck Quartet will set the tempo in eign policy in Vietnam. 11ight's Spring Weekend concert. Senator Morse has been deeply involved with the present situa- International Jazz Favorite tion in Vietnam. On numerous occasions he has expressed his To Highlight Weekend Events dissatisfaction with America's By Morty Kamzan actions there. s d · h Morse was one of the only two A jaz~ concert by the Dave Bl'\1beck Quartet on atm ay rug t, May 1, in the Field House will mark the apex of a day of gala fes- senators to vote against the bill tivities which will include athletic events, fraternity parties, and a to give the President more power genuine soap box derby through the Union campus. As an added over affairs in Vietnam. The bill attraction to Spring Weekend-1965, all Saturday clas·ses have been was introduced after North Viet- cancelfed. nam's action in the Gulf of Ton-. The Dave Brubeck Quartet will be a~pearing at the Field House kin. at 8:00 P.M. for a two-hour concert on Saturday. Admis·sion will be Well Rounded · $3.50 per person and dress is semi-formal. This well-known quartet Bor11 in Wisconsin in 1900, features Paul Desmo11d on alto sax, Joe Morello on the drums, Morse received his degrees from Eugene Wright on ba:ss, and Dave Brubeck on piano. The Quartet the University of Wisconsin. He has played at numerous engagements both in the United Sta~es all;d has taught politi~al sc~ence at t~e abroad in addition to making many record albums. Included m the1r Univers1ty of W1sconsm, the Um- collection of albums are: \Time Out,\ \Time Fw-ther Out,\ \Bossa versity of Minnesota and the Uni- No-va, U.S.A.\ and \Dave Brubeck Quartet at Carnegie Hall.\ versity of Oregon, where he also Brubeck Pioneers held a deanship. In 1945 Morse Back in the 1950's there emerged on American campuses a new was e!ected to the Senate and has kind of audience interested in jazz. Concurrent with the rising colleg- served there since. Before and iate concern for this branch of music and instrumental in opening during his position in the Senate, up the field was the Dave ~rubec~ Qu,artet. _With a personali~ed ~!?­ Morse served on many state and proach and a great deal of lmprovizatwn wh1ch appealed to his audi- federal committees dealing with ences, Brubeck, within three years,. enjoyed his own personal college subjects as varied as war, labor (Continued on Page 7) (Continued on Page 7) Little Richa:a-d and his Royal Guards promise to brealt things up when they hit the Field House stage on Friday night. Shirelles, Bonds, And Richard T«> Perform In Friday Concert llreakin.:g with Union tradition, the Class of 1196(3 will launch an all star ro·dc and roll concert to highlight Friday night of this year'·s S).}ring Weekend. A cro-wd of over 2000 is expected to tw·n out to see the Shirelles, Gary (U.S.) Bonds, and Little Richard, who will lead <lff' the biggest weekend of entertainment, ever attempted at Un10n. The concext, which will be held in the Field House at 8:30 P.M. on April 30, n<Jt only features this big-name entertainment, but also as master of ceremonies, a WPTR \good guy.\ Just which disc jockey is t()< be :Present, however, is not known at this time. The price of admission for the non-College Community is $2.50 per person. Shirelles Star Among the evening's entertainment is a group whose songs have topped nationwide record surveys time and time again, the Shil'elles. Dis~overed by \Murray the K\ of New York City's WINS eight years ago this group of four talented young ladies came into fame with t:heir recording of \Dedicated to the Un~ I Love.\ This record soon beca.me number one all over the country and eventually sold between two and three million copies, earning the group their first of many gold records. The Shirelles went on to record many more hits a.zui among their songs which reached the top of record surveys a.re: \'Soldier Boy,\ \Foolish Little Girl,\ \Mamma Said,\ \Tomorroow and \Boys.\ They have sold more single records than any othet> fem..ale recording group. (Continued on :Page 7) On Thursday, April -29. th~re will be a student bodY: meeti_ng in Memorial Chapel durmg whtch the candidates for stude~t body offices will present their pl!lt· forms. The student body electiOn will .be held on Monday, May 3. cauaidates for president an? se_c- retii.:t.y of the student coune1l Will be announced after a ca~cus to be> held on Monday. April 26. Performance Rescheduled The Lectures and Concerts Committee has announced that the concert originally scheduled for Wednesday, April 28 at 8:30 IFC Elects Randy Kuhl New Prexy Viereck Will Discuss Imagination In U.S.S.R. Ci'Vil Rights Project Calls For Helpers All upperclass fr~~rni~y me:~ including those not hv:mg m the:_u respective houses Wlll vote m their fraternities between 6:30 and 7:30 P.M. on election days. ~ All upperclass UOI]·fraternity dormitory residents will vote be- tween 6:30 and 7:30 P.l\'[. 'l'~e polling place in South Collegt .Is ~ the fourth floor lounge, and m Richmond House, the second floor lounuge. All members of the Class of '68 will vote in th~ West lit College Lounge between 6:30 and 7:30P.M. Non-residents may vote in the Student Activities Office between 1:00 and 4:30 P.M. P.M. in MemOl'i.al Chapel has Randy Kuhl, President of Delta been postponed until May 5 at the Upsilon Fraternity, defeated same time .and place. Dave Casper, President of Sigma Featured in the concert will be Chi, for the position of I.F.C. Edgar Curtis's \Concerto for Or- President on Tuesday evening. gan and String Orchestra.'' Hugh Kulll, who will enter his fifth Allen Wilson will be the organ v:ear at Union in September, ra)J soloist. A concerto for French ;igainst Dan PTigmore in last horn by Mozatt will also be per- year's election and was defeated. formed. Next year will be his second year As is the custom at perform- as president of D.U. ances of modern music which may 1 · Ra be difficult to undel·stand or to. Also in I.F.C. e eehons, y enJ 'oy on first hearing, the arches- 'Teed, President of Delta Chi, won c rt the post of Secretary, the second too will repeat the Horn once 0 highest position in the council. for those who wish to stay. Next year will also be Teed's second year as President of his fraternity. He was opposed by Werner Liepolt and Bob Ebert. Board Picked In the contest for senior mem- . bers of the l.F.C. Judicial Board Liepolt, Casper, Stone, Lewis, Shoenfelt and Levine were nom- inated and Casper, .Shoenfelt and Levine obtained the three avail- able positions. In the election for Judicial Board Junior Members, Sanderspree and Benjamin em- erged the victors. Hunter Lewis defeated Nick Thines for the post of Treasurer. The I.F.C. rushing rules for 11ext year, which were tabled at the last meeting, were. accepted as amended. Jared Wolfe of Theta Delta Chi headed the coun- cil's Rushing Rules Committee. ·The committee proposed a sys- . tern almost identical to this . year's set of rules. Recepient Chosen :-.~'ext year's class presidents include; left to right, '67; Jack Seifert, '66; and Richard Corrigan, '68. The council chose the recipient of the Frederick B. Hawley Award. This is awarded annually to the senior fraternity man who (Continued on Page 6) By Henry Ruschmeyer Professor Bruce Clements of the English Department has an- nounced that a meeting will be held for students interested in worldng for the Summer Com- munity Organization and Political Education Project (SCOPE) dur- ing the coming summer. The meeting will take place Tuesday April 27 at 8 P.M. in room 110 of :Bailey Hall.

2 Facul.ty Review: Not Greek, But Good By Prof. David W. Reece THE STAGING OF A GREEK TRAGEDY PRESENTS MANY PROBLEMS to the modern theatrical producer, not least that of balancing the conflicting claims of intelligibility and :fidelity t<;> the original. In th~ Mounte\~?anks' ,productio.r;t of Eurip- ides' Hippolytus, to be giv~n m the Nott. Memorial on Apnl21 - 25 and aga~n on May 8, the producer William Me:Iwether, and director, Samuel Mot:r~ll, have a.ch1eved a suc- cessful blend of clarity with a reasonable degree of authentiCity. Certamly they have made little attempt b reproduce the musical side of the play, which as :first produced must have been something like a modern serious opera with spoken dialogue (e.g. 'Fi~ delio' or 'Magic Flute'), but in this they were undoubtedly wise. On the other hand the lay-out of the Nott Memorial has imposed a production which in many respects, such as the absence of scenery, is much closer to the original tha11 a performance in a com- mercial theatre would be. The one respect in which the setting most differs from the Theatre of Dionysus at Athens, that of size, has in fact had its advantages, ~ince it has necessitated the employment of h small chorus of only four speakers wh1ch to- gether with the limited size of the auditorium has muc~ reduced the problem of ~h?ral speaking. This problem has also been lessened by havmg some of the cb.oruses d1v1ded into solo sections spoken by individual members of the chorus, who are to be congrat- ulated on the clarity with which they deliver their lines. ------~------------------------------------------ The problem of representing the two goddesses who open and close the drama has been effec- tively solved by making. them dis- embodied voices commg from somewhere up in the roof, but it is a pity that th~ t':'-'9 statues \vhich serve as their visible pres- ences throughout the play have been based on examples of post- classical Greek sculpture; pre- sumably it was thought that a modern audience would more readily recognize a semi-nude female figure as the goddess Aphrodite than the stiff .draped figure which would have been more correct historically. The costumes are generally simple and appropriate, and the make-up i:; excellent except that Theseus might have been made to lool~ a little olil<:>r. One prohiPm, how- 1''\'E'r, that of finding a really arle- quate translation, has not been solved since it is insoluble. The transl~tion used, is a new one by Phaedra, Pamela Morrell, and :l'lurse, Rebecca Siegel, appearing in Kenneth Cavender, is reason ably HIPPOLYTUS, reviewed above. accurate but in many places it---------=------------------------- lacks t~ut11ess of the original, Social Dilemma: and it is in the modern style which takes care to disguise the fact that it is in verse and avoids The New the obviously poetic phr~se, I_n this like all recent versions, 1t Conservatism doe~ scant justice to the original, By Richard Sifton 1 mous implications for the Civil which like all Greek tragedies is The recent Presidential elec-1 Rights movement. He stated that written in an elaborate and poetic tion brought the subject of Amer-1 t~ere is an ide~logical conserva- style which in language, in feel-. ican c~mservatism to h~adl.ine 1 hsm, b.ut th~t. It was advocate,d ing and in metre is far removed status m an eloquently ed1tor1al- 1 by m~l~. 6 m1lhon of Goldwater s from the Greek of ordinary con- ized fashion. What many of the 1 27 million supporter~. He also versation or even from that of editorials failed to take into ac-1 stated that c~:>nserva~Ives are not literary prose. In this respect at count, however, is that conserva- even Repu?liCans; m fac.t, t~e least the neo-Swinburnian vers- tism has changed recently; con-J ne~ AmeriCan conservative IS ion of Gilbert Murray, f?r all that servaties are no longer the le- qUite .freq~ently a Democrat. it is right out of fashwn today, gendary robber barons of the late I Cahforma, last fall, voted was more faithtful to the orig- nineteenth century, nor are they for President Johnson by a ma- inal In the present version there even Very Important People. It jority of two to one. At the 'll\e ·some good phrases, but also !S a simple, easily discernible fact same time, Californians voted to ~orne examples of unintentional that conservative strength is repeal, by the same majority, a bathos and on the whole this is now located in the grass roots, .clause in their state-wide housing only 'penny plain' Euripides. not in the major cosmopolitan l~ws which ou~lawed ~iscrimi~a- N ·theless Messrs Meri- areas. tion. Hacker cited th1s seemmg ·the vet d M' rell have. Ia id on The analysis of conservatism contradiction, along with several we er an or . k t d h l . '1 . t h'ch a clear and at times exciting per- which Hac er presen e as enor- 1 ot 1e1· sum ar ms ances w 1 formance, in which they ~re I :-''\\\\\\\'\'\\''\\\\',...,..,._.......,,.......,...._, greatly assisted by a cast wluch has no really weak link. The Phaedra of Pamela Morrell and the Nurse of Rebecca Siegel are both excellent, while Kent Kraft makes a good attempt at t~e ~if­ ficult part of that rather priggish young man Hippolytus. The Theseus of Werner Liepolt needs only a little more variety in ~is forceful delivery to make him ml).tch up well with the other p1;incipals. Mention should also he made of the Messenge1' of Frederic Fico who after a dull and wooden start delivered vivid- ly and with feeli_ng th~ long and difficult spt>e<:>h m whiCh h~ re- ports Hippolytus' fatal acc1den.t. The cast, the producers and their numerous helpers og-stage can all congratulate themselves o_n the success which has met their attempt to put new life into this play, first produced n~arly. 2,4~0 years ago without distortmg 1t beyond re;ognition. VAH CURLER MUSIC SHOP 50 1 State Street RECORDS JAZZ POPS MUSIC Student Discounts CLASSICS Time £Enter Jt;wEiel's YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 DIAMANTE'S Enioy Our Fine Horne Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate o,n Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL -- CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL • CHARTER BUS Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Fdday, April 23, 1965 Mind's Eye: G. Starbuck: Classy Innovator By Paul Sherwin· · By now It must be ap·parent to everyone that . poetry in English is waiting for something to . happen. It seems as though it is n0t enough that there are plenty of good poems being written by perceptiw~ and highly styHzed craftsmen. What we feel we need now i's a poetry good in a way that we could not have foreseen: a kind of percep- tivity and writing that \v.ill transcend ·our pres- that is compo'sed passionately and learnedly from the ground up, a verse that grows and moves as it is created, a verse whose subjects do not merely serve to foster the writer's original mood: it draws him out of himself into new moods. Star- burk''s poetry is refreshing, largely because he is =1 man who makes his own forms. The principle failure of his forms, it seems, is that there is often t{)o much elaborate trickery which lapses into what may be regarded as a performance. By and large, however, the seeming-spontaneity re- mains . ~- r Ri~ A . ent criteria. The great break with the formal ··and el'egiac traditions of verse writing was, of course, fostered by the innovations of Pound and • Hume and Eliot. Today, there seem to be three ; major schools of poetry: the academic poets who Scabrous Wit lean towards the type of verse written in the Mo'st often his w:it is the serious wit that is forties and fiftie's; the Beats with their search for the energizing ally of tragic poetry. In \Elegy · the New and Something Else; and, \finally those the lost poem of the volume, there is a sharply poets who lodge in the curious halfway house be- C\nical wit operating m. ost effectively. The poem tween the two. George Starbuck, a. young man ' horn in Columbus, Ohio, in 193l, and now living opens and closes with the lines: in Boston, typifies that strange marl'iage between I lovers cold on mountain drives · · 0 lovers warm in valleys the more traditional academic poetry and the 0 bold laves where the sand flea Jives o·stensibly \free\ verse of the Beats.. It appears 0 furtive loves in alleys, that in this ·school stirs the seeds of a. fresh and featherbeds are dear but sex vibrant new kind of poetry that is capable of re- is cheap: moving the limbo that exists in too much verse pull your dashboards tight about your necks in our era. Themes and Techniques and .sleep. This refrain ser-ves as a frame for\ the middle War, exacerbated love and what Starbuck calls stanzas which eye the rest of the world in bitter the \threat of modern religiosity\ are the main and caustic terms. Although the synicism is some- themes of his fii'st book of poems, Eo11e Thoughts, times more literary than that of the authentic volume 56 in the Yale Series of Younger Poets. tough, it usually comes off strongly and alarm- Any nr'st book of poems is a conscious overture, ingly. A brutally specific example of this wit and Starbuck's volume is just that: a song of the S , modern world carefully and intelligently worked occurs in the jukebox rancor of \War tory : out and built up from an untrod starting ground. The 4th of July he s.tormed a nest What is most exciting about Starbuck 7 s work is He won a ri-bbon but lost his chest. his free and easy stylistic flourish, an instance of We threw his arms acros's the rest technical bravura. In \Outbreak of Spring,\ one And kneed him in the chin. of Starbuck's many Bo'ston poems, there is an ar- (You knee them in the chin resting, evxtraordinarily handsome C(}rnplication To drive the dog-tag in.) of sights and sounds: Despite the humor and wit of Starbuck's poetry, Full-feaster i't can hardly be characterized as \light\ verse. Spring, like an ill bird, settles to the masthead The joking is scabrous, like the occasions that of here and there an elm. The streets are misted. crive rise to it. There is l1ttle easy playing for A Boston rain, archaic and monastic, ;'hock. cobbles the blacktop waters, brings mosaic I to dusty windshields; to the waking, music. The best introduction to a first book of poems There is a truly charming sound hl're; the first is, naturally, the 'book itself. Mr. Starbuck has triad of assonances moving from .bl'ight to dull, succeeded in expanding his Boston into a mechan- the second from dull to bright. It is a passage istic metropolitan Everywhere. His poems of that chalenges the ear (there is a melody impo·sed Creatures (highlighted by \Bone Thoughts on a on the already counterpointed meter) as '''ell as Dry Day\) Structures (describing modern urban the· mind. It fills the imagination. scenes) and Higher Creatures (Men) expo'se an Spontaneity individual and unblushing talent. Starbuck is a There is a certain spontaneity in Starbuck's poet whom we should know and learn from. His writing that arises from the poet's lack of reli- book may be found in the Book Store in the ance upon traditional structure; for his is a verse poetry section. ~--------------~--~------------------------------- have taken place throughout the jority of Americans are striving cuuntry recently. for greater status. In order to Hacker informed his audience achieve this status, conventions that the majority of Americans must be followed; there is little are now, since only about 1955, l'OO!n for change or individualism owners of their homes, not rent- when one seeks the recognition e1·s. As property owners, they of his superiors. And the super- are subiect to the middle class iors have property values to pro- fear of loss of money. The quick- teet, also. Hacker feels that the est way to lose money if one ow:ns people who support the Civil a home is to allow a Negro to Rights movement are the people live on the same block. This is who have nothing to lose by so not to say that the average Am- doing, as in the case of a hood- erican homeowner is against the lum from a slum who is not Civil Rights movement; but un- bothered by the thought of going fortunately, he cannot afford to I tr jail for purse-snatching. The he too much in favor of it. The majority of these latter people new popular conservatism is not 1 are not homeowners; they are lo- political; it is social. ·rated in urban rental projects. Status Seekh1g . Although there has been some According to Hacker, the rna-' imp1·m·ement in the housing sit- uation, there has been an even larger increase in the Negro pop- ulation, concomitant with a mi- gration from the south to the north. Hacker was doubtful that the American middle class, as devoted as it is to material achievement, yould be able in the next generation to adjust itself adequately to these massive dem- ographic changes. Failure to adjust imnlies that the Negro wiJ continue to be excluded from the mainstream of American life. Yet a liberal spirit has been un- leashed; the Negro will not ac- cept what he has been offered so far. And the Negro, unlike his ,. white middle-class counterpart, has nothing to lose except his life. Y T + f ¥9 ¥ + W t + f + V ¥¥ 'f' f '¥ Y f ¥¥ Y T T' f ,..,.......,... 9 f f f 'f T ¥ '¥ '¥ ¥¥¥¥¥ L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 118. 120 JAY STREET • A 6 • 4 4 •• A • $ t 4 6 6 £ + .4. A 6 6 6 + 4 6 *_6 ,4, + 4 4 +-& 6·4 4 4 4 6 f +.I + ........ DRIVE - IN CHOW UP SNACKS TO DINNERS DAILY TO MIDNIGHT AT SCOTIA BRIDGE Storie velopmen successes further d committe< portion o: Yet f those mar id rights, hu subservier out the ~ model for I I [:! jJ. !/TI felt the l United St oorry fort time it rE prove the At the did not r torch for crusade w: in which able trus1 chosen to tion's. Mo pand, to s action thE man, quic . States ha> all know totalitaria know wha It is in rights mo' and equal cally valu real signif not be fot tunities fa prived of · in the ps~ upon then the people something· Can Ed. Not ber of 4 iated ~ Carver 1 By Schenec critical ci explosion, of crisis, Schenecta !ems. Ho' has lived, ed to be : ity and c Schenecta !ems. S1 saved frm of dynam and a apathy tl majority munity. ~ lucky it other citiE unemploy• discrimin: have ha< their com groups in been in tl totally · i11 the bulk tion. Lea Qualifie sought, e oped. Thi: be ready guard of so impor1 smoulderi rights. Ci taken alo of humar tion, em:r

23, 1965 Friday, April 23, 1965 Rights t65 The Struggle Continues Sherwin· ' from moves as me1·ely mood: it Star- he is principle there is ch lapses By re- it that is \Elegy sharply poem es necks middle in bitte1· is some-- authentic alarm- this wit poetry, verse. that for of poems buck has mechan- of on a urban an is a His e in the an even pop- a mi- th to the that class, as material in the just itself dem- to Negro uded from life. been un- not ac- offered so his his + • • • Y + . •· ........... Rights Movement And Democracy By Alon Jefl\rey Stories about the plight of the Negro, the de- vetopment of the civ1.J rights movement, and its successes and fai.Iures abound. I can do little to further document the hopes and feal!'s of those committed to improving the lot of a significant portion of the American poputation. Yet the dreams, fulfilled and destroyed, of those citizens pale beside the greater mean- ing of the civil rights move- ment. It may well be that fu- ture historians will be better able to assess the impact of the movement on not just those intimately concerned, but on the whole American .nation. The Vnited State·s was once a nation committed to a revolu- ' one which proclaimed individual rights, human sanctity, and, most impo1•tant, the subservience of the state to the citizens. Through- out the yeat·s the United States served as the model for these peoples and nations which also Van Winkle Makes Good Ed. Note: Mr. Lipman is the Feature Editor for the Long Island Uni\·ersity newspaper, the Seawanhalm. By David Lipman One of the most amusing facets of mid-20th century life that will be studied by historians in the next 100 years is this Negro thing that we are all so powerfully engros·sed in. Thousands of \progressive\ and \liberal\ types have immersed themselves in large muddy tubs of guilt, in a masochistic rush to atone for evils that were committed by their fathers .before they were born. They take ihe stand and teHtify in churches, in colleges, in TV discussion groups; and to show that they really mean it, they berate themselves in small groups over cocktail glasses and musty canapes. The humor of this situation, irony by the way is humor, lies in that fact that amid all of the publicity and crocodile tears of public guilt, no one ha:s bothered to ask the Negro why he has waited 100 years to establish himself in the middle class Valhalla of the white man. No one has asked him 1 J f:~ Iii J/The Civil Rights Movement is based on the concepts symbolized by the ftag they carry. felt the human worth. From time to time the United States even entered the world arena to oorry forth the banner of Its beliefs. But every- time it retreated into its continental self to im- proYe the material well-being of its citizens. Change and Affimation At the e11d of W:orld War II the United States did not retreat. It stepped forth to carry the tort!h for a new world order. All too rapidly the nusade was brought to a stop. The Soviet Union, in which the United States had placed consider- able trust, turned its back on the instrument chosen to achieve that new order, the United Na- tion's. Moreover, the Soviet Union began to ex- pand, to seek control over other nations. To this aetion the United States, under President Tru- man, quickly responded. Since then, the United . States has been fighting against communism. We all know what this fight is against--aggressive totalitariani·sm- __ but, more importantly, do we know what we are fighting for 7 It is in this historical perspective that the civil tights movement becomes important. Civil rights and equal opportunities for all men are intrinsi- cally valuable and must be fought for. But the real significance of the civil rights movement will not be found in winning these rights and oppor- tunities for a minority that has so long been de- prived of them. On the contrary, it is to be found in the psychological impact that movement has upon the nation. For the first time in many years, the people of the United States are fighting for something-not simply against. (Continued on Page 5) Cancerous Ed. Note: Allen is a mem- ber of CORE and is affil- iated with Schenectady's Carver Community Center. By Joseph W. Allen Apathy Schenectady has never had a why he has remained poor, unueducated, undigni- fied and uncivilized for such an outrageou'sly long time. The white liberal will be outraged at this ques- tion. The answer is so obvious: \The Negro has been suppressed by us white fiends. We have bound him in chains and made of him a slave. We are at fault.\ To be honest, I agree in part with the liberal view. No one has made it easy for the Negro. Any N cgro above the status of a factory worker can tell you how he had to sweat to prove himself not merely the equal, but the overall superior to any white man that he has ever had to compete with. The animals that walk our streets (and read our newspapers) have rebuked him, kicked him, spit on him, and perhaps most painful of all laughed at his every effort to drag himself out of the mud. But in ·spite of the laughter and hate of the monkeys, Negroes have educated themselves and found places for themselves in the system. The best of them have risen above the ridiculous value scales of the pretty pretty world of the whitecollar worker and have joined that evclusive little club that sits above the boobs and lives like civilized human beings. But the majority of Negroes have, for the last 100 years, acted as if they have been waiting for some bearded Messiah to lead them out of the white wilderness. They have found themselves living in a toilet and have refused to make any effort to stop the white man from pulling the chain. (Continued on Page 5) Prevents Riots A civil rights demonstration in Birmingham, Alabama Faculty Column: •-- \'.- \~··'''·- . \i~~ Me-~~~K ·~ .. ~ -Photo by Bob Adelman What's Now; What,s Next By Prof. Malcolm R. Willison \BLISS WAS IT IN THAT DAWN TO BE ALIVE ... \ BUT OF THE French Revolution, Wordsworth added that\. . . the soil of common life was, at that time, too hot to tread upon.\ Do we now sense something of the same excitement born of danger and hopeful choice in the reordering of American society? Applying American rights to Negroes has not been easy. But President Johnson himself has proclaimed that \We Shall Overcome.\ All the civil rights groups, and many others besides, have fought for years of equal access by Negroes to voting, jobs, education, and public accommodations, on an unsegregated basis. These rights are far from being universally honored. And there are vast areas of private employ- ment, organizational membership and residential choice that are still effectively seg- regated from Negroes. These struggles have increasingly polarized Americans into those who feel that Negroes' rights are stili threate11ed and those who fear that Negroes are about to storm the last ba·stions of privilege. But in fact there is a very different difficulty facing AmericaJ:IJS. There seems to be a general assumption that Negroes freed from Southern caste barriers and Northern discrimina- tion \ill emerge as dark-skinned middle clas·s ASPs (Anglo-Saxon Protestants). But a great many Negroes may not respond to all the pres- sures to participate more fully in those parts of American life from which they have been ex- cluded. Why Vote? For example, Negroes often do not vote even if there are no legal or social obstacles in the way, Like other American poor (and Negroes have a far lower average family income than whites), they do not see the relevance of voting to their own pressing problems. White and Negro politic- ians ordinarily have not had much reason to help them to do so, €ither. Negroes, when job opportunities do open up, may not take advantage of them. Like everyone else, Negroes are anxious to improve their stand- ard of living. But because theY' are poor, they must try to start work early in life in jobs that do not ha•\e a cumulative effect on their earning power. Yet as the automation of the American economy continues, the amount of necessary train- ing increases constantly, and so does the length of time before one can earn a steady, secUl'e in- come. Furthermore, before work, Negroes may not take training that pays off. Much that is offered prepares Negroes for disappearing semi-skilled jobs. Even good technical training may not be pursued. This may be due to inadequate l.!arly discipline or the lack of a stable, rewarding par- ental image to identify with. Whatever its eause, this does not create inadequate aspirations, how- ever, American Negroes, class by class, have been found to have higher occupational goals than non- Negroes. But this means that what training is available falls woefully short of their dreams. As for social integration into American so- In a Mississippi church CORE national direetor James Farmer leads 250 Negroes in freedom songs. their aspirations and their achievement, there are a number of alternative responses they may take up, and several alternative policies that can be pursued by those who want to affect these re- sponses. - critical civil rights incident or explosion. Because of this lack of crisis, many people think Schenectady hasn't any prob- lems. However, any Negro who has lived, worked and attempt- ed to be aware of his commun- ity and city can tell you that Schenectady does have prob- lems. Schenectady has been saved from this crisis by a lack of dynamic, militant leadership and a spineless cancerous apathy that has infected the majority of the Negro com- munity. Schenetcady has been lucky it hasn't had riots, like other cities, because frustrated, unemployed, povetry -stricken, discriminated- against-Negroes have had no place to lodge riety, these very aspirations for highly prestigious jobs indicate a deep insecurity about self-worth. Even if the goals are achieved at last, there may be severe unease in social contacts with whites , at that new social level. So a Negro may have to hrazen it out, or retire to the more congenial company of Negroes often further down the nc- cupational scale . · One possibility is for the disappointed to be- come resigned to their position in life; they then accommodate themselves to whatever is expected of them. In the South, this has been the easiest ~ourse 1 except psychological~y, for mos.t Negroes, mcludmg Booker T. Wa:shm:gton. Even in the North, the ordinary Negro has minded his own business, asking only to be left alone to make the best of a bad situation. The higher status Ne- groes belong to the usually integmted NAACP or to the National Urban League. But these have often become no more than social club for the elite. their complaints. Civil rights groups in this community have been in the past, and are now, totally· ineffective in reaching the bulk of the Negro popula- tion. Leadership Sought Qualified Negroes should be sought, encouraged and devel- oped. Tllis leadership will then be ready to step into the van- guard of the teamwork effort so important in resolving the smouldering problems of civil rights. Civil rights has to be , taken along with every phase · of human life; social, educa- tion, employment, having the Suppose, then, that a large percentage of American Negroes finds it too diffict1lt to take advantage of the opportunities for political par- ticipation, occupational mobility, more education, and social integration. What would be the conse- quences for the United States 7 We already have faced them for the last hundred years. There is an economic drain, a kind of \under- developed area\ within the American economy, of Carver Center's Allen calls for quali6ed Negro leadership to resolve those not producing as much per capita as ethel'S. the smouldering problems in Schenectady. -Photo by Nick LawrencP Nor do they consume as much as the economy requires. Furthermore, they form an ;.massim- ilated category in American society. Unless Ne- groes move off toward a \Happy Fellow\ counter- culture to American success demand'S, they will remain in some of the more dissatisfied suucul- tures in America. For this very reason i·hey will continue for ·a time to be broken into disorganhed groups and disoriented individuals. While reas- suring to those concerned with the shori-run sta- tus . quo, it should give pause to think of who right to vote. Schenectady's big problems are housing and employment. Many Negroes in Schenec- tady are still being denied the eqmil opportunity to earn a living. Many companies prac- tice tokenism or just refuse to hire Negroes. For example, Schenectady has one Negro fireman, one Negro policeman and Negroes working in stores are almost non-existent. Real estate companies in Schenectady have been and are still attempting to make cer- tain areas in the city a Negro ghetto. Some banks refuse to make loans available to Ne- groes unless they buy homes in certain areas. Since 1954, there has only been token integration. The Su- preme Court has made their school desegration decision. However, Negroes discovered that the Courts were too slow. The NAACP led the fight in the courts and then SNCC, CORE and the Southern Leadership Conference took the struggle into the streets. Schenectady, as a city without a social crisis, has just been lucky. might seize the opportunity to rouse and organ- ize the disordered. When people are faced with a gap between their aspirations and their achievement, there are a number of ·alternative responses they may take up, and several alternative policies that can be pursued by those who want to affect these re- sponses. When people are faced with a gap between Thi's accommodation has bred a kind of ritual- ism: a,cting as much as possible like the respeeta- ble middle class whites, without being a.ble to achieve the middle class goal of acceptance. Many Negro ghetto churches and organizations f()llow the no~al American pre~ccupation .with (Negro) co!Y!n:umty status and m-group Jockeying for POSitlOn. The Urban Disaffiliate Another possible response has been a more compl~te re.treat from. all participation in ordiruary American life. The rise of drug addiclion among Negroes as among other urban 'disaffiliates' is a ~ocia:l be~avior often brought .on by a. strong but me:l>.tJressible sen:se of frustratiOn. So IS the prev- alence of simple apathy and passive-dependt-ncy. This l')'lay shi~t to aimless aggres·siveness and de- structivenes·s. The well-organized fighting gnngs of the 1950's have disappeared, becoming social clubs or splitting into small disorganized, group.s or individuals, often addicts. On the other hand, other responses attempt tu find novel means for linking Negroes and other Americans to the \standard\ American .success goals. !n New York, the City is devei()ping nurs- ery schools for children of families too poor to have books and other mental stimulants. The tutorial programs of the Northern Student MovP- ment, SNCC (Student Non-Violent Coordmating (Continued on Page 4) 3

4 OJnurnr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office. Sche- nectady Printing Company, 60 2 Broadway. ·Entered in the Sche· nectady Post Office as Second Class- Mail Matter. Subscription 1'5c a copy: U a year delivered anywhere in the United States. SEXIOR BOARD BAIU1Y :XEW~I.-1.::-; '1;~ JEFVREY f:Pl'X'Tfll1 '6G RICHARD RIFTOX 'Gn MARK KASOWITZ '67.. .. ROBb:R'l' S'I'OLZBEHU 'ti;. A.\'DY COLll '67 .. PAL'L SHERWI:X '67 .. ARNOLD KATZ '66 li1ATTHEW KATZ '67.. .... . UE:s'HY .1-'J::HU t:::;u::-; · ;,u ....... . 377-9RH . Editor-in-Chief 177-9SS4 Business Manager :!l6-!l730 Managing Edit<>r ........................................ News Editor . ............................. Feature Editor , . ... SPorts Editor .. ......... Literary Editor · ........... Consulting Editor . ................................. Page Editor ..................... F ... culty Advisor · Rights On Cantpus College students have, for years, been lying in, march- ing in, or sitting in- in lunch counters, lobbies, corridors, hot-els, mud, slush, rain, and just about everything else. They clap their hands, they sway their hips, they raise their voices, and they will overcome, all for the cause of civil rights and freedom now. Like migrant farmers they follow the crises through the deep South and urban North, but very rarely do they create their own crises, as might well be done on some of their own campuses. Many a well meaning man from Union, for example, has made the journey to Nashville or Neshoba - where the Negroes are, and where they demand recognition of their existence in society. But rarely is the attempt made, back on that calm campus in Schenectady, to break the sepechral silence on the race issue. Here, the Negroes do not decry the establishment in defiant protest, because Negroes in any recognizable number do not exist at Union. No one says a word. The fraternities keep their clauses, written or not, the admissions department guards its quo- tas, certainly not written, and the years drift by, untouched by any of those nasty \outsiders.\ But do not be deceived by serenity. Union is riding high in the eye of a hurricane, and eventually the wind must blow and upset our \well-balanced\ apple cart. Union cannot survive in carefully sifted sameness. The races and the geographies must be more thoroughly mixed if we ever hope to truly educate. Reveille! An energetic student government is the student body's only hope for making its opinion felt and respected. A concerned and active student body, however, is the first requisite of any effectual government organization. The Student Council and class governments here try in vain, meeting after meeting, to do more than puff pipes, look distinguished. and say nothing, through two hours of dry debate. The students, however, rarely aid the council or the classes in their attempt to overcome the traditional stigma of figurehead government. The elections of class officers last week, and the slates for upcoming elections illustrate this dour fact all to graphically. ' In the balloting for Senior class president, an im- portant and distinguished post, only one hundred twenty present Juniors bothered to cast votes. They were not forced to trudge to some far off polling place. They were not unnerved by a bedsheet ballot. They were only asked to circle a few names. The apathy is pathetic. Among those running for office, too, there is a severe disinterest which is also created by student body detach- ment. Student council elections next week will see numer- ous seats unchallenged, and for the office of student body president there is yet to be any sure candidate. The student lethargy on this campus has created a cyclic effect of disinterest and do-nothing government which is running the Student Council into the ground. We urge you to disengage your radio earplugs, get out of bed, and do something constructive for your school before this lazy inaction becomes eternal sleep. Close Quaters In September the class of 1969 is likely to discover a distinct difference between acceptance and admission to Union College. Admission implies a physical entrance, and the new class, which promises to be excessively large, may have trouble jamming themselves through the main gate, much less trying to squeeze into cramped dormitory rooms. Seven hundred twen·~y-two people, the largest number ever picked by Union under normal peace-time circum- stances, have been asked to come here next year. Ostensi· bly, these will find three hundred-fifty places in the fresh- man class, but this figure is hardly substantiated by last year's results. Of six hundred seventy-nine acceptances for the Class of '68, three hunudred forty-four elected to study here. Has Union's prestige dwindled so in just one year that an increase of forty-three in acceptances will yield but six more freshmen? Even if the admissions department has hit the nail on the head, however, and three hundred fifty men arrive, the dormitory facilities cannot comfortably accomodate them. The Class of '68 has been forced to live three in a room within the withering walls of North College. Will South College be packed beyond livibility next? The solution to this dilemna is not the building of new dormitories after the school becomes overcrowded, but the reduction of class size until we can accomodate more stu- dents -- in both our housing and teaching facilities. ''ALABAJ.':..A UBER ALLES'' Letters to the Editor Outlandish Crime To The Editor: Last Saturday I was witness to theft openly committed by 1.'11ion students. Two six-foot lan- terns were taken from the eating hall at the Lantern Lodge, Sara- toga Springs. In the eagerness to possess the treasures, one of the lanterns was partly wrecked and left outside. The other one was carried away. If it were not for the fact that I don't believe in generalisations I could easily disclose the nam~ of the fraternity to which the thieves belonged - thew wore labelled jackets. Furthermore- the students were recognized by my companions at the table. ln other words, it was an openly committed crime. And I ask my- self the question: Is there no social pressure that discourages these elements? I have reason to believe that this incident does not stand alone. In any case-if you recently discovered a lantern in one of the fraternity-houses on -campus it quite possibly was taken from' the Lantern Lodge and belongs there. Stale Eskeland. Raps Concordy To the Editor, I h.a ve become very disapJJQin t- ed with the Coucordiensi~ of the last few weeks. As many people I read the Concordy with a \grain of s:llt\ and yet looked to it to provide some communication on campus. On Wednesday, 17 March 1965, I realeased some news con- cerning my class (Class Day Orators, etc.) which pertains to at least 260 students to OUR campus news media and to the College News Bureau. I have been waiting to see it in pdnt. The q~estit?n that is t·aised in my mind ts: Does the Concordiensis· owe to its \publishers\ a channel of information dissemination? I note in your masthead that the Concordi~:>nsis is \Pu-blished Fridays during- the school year hy the Stuc!ent Body of Union Co :lege, Schenectady, N.Y.\ and knowing that in Title II Member- ship, section I of the Constitution of the Student Body of Union College it clearly states that ''The Student Body shall consist of all undergraduates in Union College who have paid the Stu- dent Activit!es fee for that year,\ I fet;l that 1t should provide this sernce. And that as a \publisher\ I have the right to question your policies. I believe in freedom of the press and editorial independence but since the Newspaper is OURS and not an independently run business, I think one of its main jobs should be to correctly spread OUR information. If perhaps the reason for this (\mission is lack of \space\ I \\\OUld suggest adding two p~ges or taking another Concordy Poll to see what is xead by the Stu- ([ent Body and what is merely filler. Sincerely yours, Gary Morris President '65 EDITOR'S NOTE: 1\'lr. Morris is a Senior, and despite his learn- ed advice to CONCORDIENSIS, it becomes evident in his letter that he has not been reading this 11aper at all carefully during the past years. If he had, he surely would have seen the announce- ments of class day officers-al- ways in the final issue before graduation. Spring Weekend To The Editor: We would like to take this op- portunity to point out a few im- portant facts about Union's up- coming Spring Weekend. It should be realized that Mr. Sei- ft:rt's weekend has the largest budget in Union history. The sue- tess of such an expensive produc- tion depends largely on you, the students. The possibility of fu- ture weekends offering such out- standing talent is dil'ectly pro- portional to this year's Spring· Weekend success. Next year's Student Tax Committee cannot be expected to approve our bud- get if Mr. Seifert's goes into the red. The next step is yours. We urge everyone to support this Weekend and at the same time ~ee some outstanding entertain- ment. It should be noted that the Dave Brubeck Quartet was I'e- ccntly chosen the number one in- strumental jazz group according b a poll of some 93 co1leges which appeared in \Billboard- ;}1usic On Campus.\ Also, one should realize that a $7.50 Week- end couple ticket is $4.50 less than nonstudents will have to pay. Again we urge everyone's sup- J>ort and wish the clas·s of 1966 the best of luck on their Spring Weekend. The Of:ficel\S of the Class (}f '67. Campus Calendar Friday. April 23 2:30-Tennis: Union vs. Vermont Saturday, April 24 1:30-Tennis: Unio-n vs. Harpur 2:00-Freshrnan Track: Union vs. Rochester 2:45-Track: Union vs. Rochester Tuesday, April 27 11:30-Convocation: Address-Peter Viereck; Memorial Chapel 11:30-Talk on Japanese Art. Dr. G. B. Washburn. O.C. Wednesday, April 28 3:00-Lacros'se: U!l!ion vs. Hobart 3:30-Tennis: Union vs. Trinity Thursday, April 29 2:30-BMaseball: Union vs. Hamilton 8:00-Conv(}Catio-n: Charnber Music Concert; Memorial Chapel Friday, April 30 2:30-Baseball; Union vs. Norwich Saturday, May 1 Classes Suspended 2:00-Lacrosse: Union vs. Clarkson 2:00-Track: Uruion v's. Middlebury 2:30-Freshrnan Tennis: Union vs. Bard Friday, April 23, 1965 Willison • • • (Continued from Page 3) Committee) and others, North and South, reach into \culturally de- prived\ but aspiring Negro homes to show the young that learning is both enjoyable and rewarding. The Federal government is paying Negro and other dropouts to get more training. CORE (Congres·s of .ll. Racial Equality) and Whitney Young of the National Urban League · have pl'Oposed that Negroes be given not only special training, but also special privileges in trying out new jobs. Some colleges admit Negro students with inadequate academic preparation but outstand- ing potential. • There has been increasing encouragement of Negro business. All-Negro banks and an in'surance company have recently been formed in New York City, able to make loans to Negro businessmen who have been marginal only because of great difficulties in getting •· credit and bank loans. The new Federal loan program to very small bllsinesses has been an espedal boon to Negro enterpreneurs. As for other sources of capital, however, there has been a signal lack of innovative Negro economic crime. Nothing like Prohibition has come 11 along to offer a steady and profitable way for Negroes to amass potential investment capital. Even the making of book, once a Negro monopoly is now dominated by outsiders. Instead, the arts provide a fast new route of mobility and a platform for new proposals. The writers-James Baldwin, Saunders 41 · Redding, LeRoi Jane's, and the rest-are consolidating a .prestigeful and even financially rewarding position for Negroes. Many still cry out for that change of heart in America that they so long have waited for in vain. Some have gone on to blast out new social and u. i poli-tical positions in the current controversy. And they are joined by more and more successful Negro professional people, including Friday, '\ rights Ameri1 Every strikes stu den The vide, tb. sire to 1 The civ Congres Student (SNCC) ers on tl from tl:i to Mr. I who ac< Raleigh, groups sponse i the proj the educated ministers. Political Solutions Sought • 1 rnarily haven't to plan Most have turned to politics for solutions, joining the whole civil rights movement in its determination to rechannel. A;merican politics through the power of the Negro vote. But s1gn1ficantly enough, the new Negro politician has not yet emerged very clearly, , • except for Adam Clayton Powell. Hated by all other Negro leaders, he nevertheless may represent a coming unconventional popular s~yle in Negro politics. In the North, only CORE has also ventured mto taking a stand against local candidates like Mayor Wagner. In Mississippi, COFO (Council of Federated Organizations) has helped ,•' ti launch the Freedom Democratic Party, which appeared at the Demo- cratic Convention last year and which is contesting the right of the regular white Mississippi Democrats to be seated in the Congress. Here we may see signs brewing of another major. response to ~ the frustration:;; of being a Negro in America. Among the Northern white and Negro SNCC workers in the South, and among the North- ern Negro intellectuals there has been a revival. of support for radi- cal political solutions. Many begin to see the whole structure of , , 1 American life as militating against the gradual improvement of Negroes' position. Instead, ~he~ see Negroes and the ot\J-er P.<~or.f~II- ing further and further behmd m the race to keep UJ? w1th t smg technical demands of automated industrialization, With le l~ss power to demand a cut of the cake. They propose an imme , shift in the distribution of power in the United States, before If IS too late to do so. . 1 One of these viewpoints believes in m;ing t~e temp_orary. di·slo- cation of American society, through the non-v10lent dtSl't\ptiOn of ordinary life, in order to. b11ng co?ces~ions from .\the. white power ·structures,\ as they perstst m call!ng It. For a t1m~ m 1·963, af~~r the Birmingham riots Bayard Rustm of the Fellowship of Reconcih- ation arg·ued for this view: The local CORE \stall-in\ ~n th«:; high- ways leading to the opemng (}f the New York World s Fan· last spring was an extension of this. But Rustin and James Farmer of National CORE refused to endorse them, because of the lack of spe- cific grievances and objectives.. The rt;cent. \plot\ to. blo~ up the Statue of Liberty seems to have been pr1mar1ly the bram-ch1ld of one man. Yet even James Foreman of SNCC at the great Washingto.n March in August 1963 was so disillusioned and !l~gative that hts speech there had to be censored by the other participants. _ . But these nihilistic tendencies have led to demands for still greater changes. One proposal, feare~. by white and N~g.ro leaders alike is to openly arm Negro commumtles. Robert F. Williams (now in H~vana) has called for \Negroe~ with Gun.s\ af~er his experi~nce in Monroe, North Carolina; the mformal stphomng of guns mto Southern Negro communities is occasionally rumored. Total Witltdrawal and Malcolm X This response, in turn, is in some ways similar to the ·se~rega­ tionist and sece::;essiunist polich!s called for. by t~e Rl~ck M.ushms of Elijah Muhammed and by the Black Nabona!Is,ts. mcludmg those led by Malcolm X until ht wa~ .assassinated. The{' d~mand !lo·t only civic self-defense but total pohtJcal, as well as soctal, Ideological, and p-sychological withdrawal from America~'! white society .. This has been proposed before, as in the Communrst Party's repud1a:ted pro- posal of the 1930's for a NefVO Republic in the Sou~h. I:n fact, how- ever neither the Black Muslims nor the Black Nabonahsts seem to be pursuing politieal secession. The Black _Muslims, like ~arcus Garvey's back-to-Africa movement of the 1920 s, have become stmply another militant and static movement linking poor Negroes and some businessmen in an authoritatrian organization for Negro ideological and economic self-sufficiency. The Black Nationalists, on th~ oth~r hand, seem to be calling for a political upheaval by Ne~roes m. :;lh- ance with other radicals to replace the pre'Sent AmeriCan politiCal sy·stem. . t Yet with all these various programs, ordmary Negroes seem o have been little roused. Southern rural NegToes who have responded to voter registration drives are often poor, but their leaders are gen- erally the mo-re active and properoUR in their communities. In the 1 Southern and Northern city slums there is apathy and resentment that has not yet focussed on the radical solutions being preached to them. Only the educated ministers who call for integration, now that they are mobilized for political and soc.ial action North and South, can appeal both to the Negro and white church-goers and to the poo-r fundamentalist Negroe-s. (Continued on Page 6) LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open i 1 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1 115 Barrett St. ·, In tr civil rig stereoty Howe:veJ last yea1 quite no quite cr1 Newf lege stu< were h·~ student of the rr about a 1 rant?, 1 jail?, vi, they ha1 idealism high per Seers coati ester, natm

4 (!lournr Publtshed Fridays during the school year by the Student Body or Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advert!sl·ng RepreserHatlve· National Advertising Service, Inc .. College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. l~dltorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Con1oany, 502 Broad way. Ent·ered in the Sche~ nect ady Post Office as Second Class ~tall ~lii.tter. Subscription 15c a L·upy: $Ri a yPar delh'er.e-d anywhere in the United States \E:'\IOR UO.\RI> R.\HitY :-.:E\\':1·1.\:-.: .,, ; JI·>F'F\H J·;Y ~PI'~ I \I'( rr:, 't:'; RWllAHil >'lFT<l:'i ·,;,; MA!tK KA>'OWITZ 'ti~ IUJIJ.I·:HT t'TLJLZI!Eit!i to; -~-;:-'I ...... I ·~;: 'I'>: .... I :~ t 1:. '17 ~~~ EdHot ~i n·Chief Hllf;in~sR l\Ianager :l•!unnging Editor · ...... ;>;ews t.;dilor . A;>;LJY ('Ol.!l ·,;; . Ft.~ at u h' l:;Ultor Spor-t-s 'Editor Literary Editor PA1'L f'IJF:HWI:-.: 'G7 AHX<lLl> KATZ 'fi<i MATTHEW KXl'Z '6; IU::XHY FEHlii'S<>:\ ,,o .. ('onsultt.ng Editor . Page Edt-tor Fu~. ult.y .Atl\'tsor Rights On Catnpus College students have, for years, been lying in, march- ing in, or sitting in --- in lunch counters, lobbies, corridors, hotels, mud, slush, rain, and just about everything else. They clap their hands, they sway their hips, they raise their voices, and they will overcome, all for the cause of civil rights and freedom now. Like migrant farmers they follow the crises through the deep South and urban North, but very rarely do they create their own crises, as might well be done on some of their own campuses. Many a well meaning man from Union, for example, has made the journey to Nashville or Neshoba - where the Negroes are, and where they demand recognition of their existence in society. But rarely is the attempt made, back on that calm campus in Schenectady, to break the sepechral silence on the race issue. Here, the Negroes do not decry the establishment in defiant protest, because Negroes in any recognizable number do not exist at Union. No one says a word. The fraternities keep their clauses, written or not, the admissions department guards its quo- tas, certainly not written, and the years drift by, untouched by any of those nasty \outsiders.\ But do not be deceived by serenity. Union is riding high in the eye of a hurricane, and eventually the wind must blow and upset our \well-balanced\ apple cart. Union cannot survive in carefully sifted sameness. The races and the geographies must be more thoroughly mixed if we ever hope to truly educate. Reveille! An energetic student government is the student body's only hope for making its o.pinion felt and respected. A concerned and active student body, however, is the first requisite of any effectual government organization. The Student Council and class governments here try in vain, meeting after meeting, to do more than puff pipes, look distinguished. and say nothing, through two hours of dry debate. The students, however, rarely aid the council or the classes in their attempt to overcome the traditional stigma of figurehead government. The elections of class officers last week, and the slates for upcoming elections, illustrate this dour fact all to graphically. In the balloting for Senior class president, an im- portant and distinguished post, only one hundred twenty present Juniors bothered to cast votes. They were not forced to trudge to some far off polling place. They were not unnerved by a bedsheet ballot. They were only asked to circle a few names. The apathy is pathetic. Among those running for office, too, there is a severe disinterest which is also created by student body d-etach- ment. Student council elections next week will see numer- ous seats unchallenged, and for the office of student body president there is yet to be any sure candidate. The student lethargy on this campus has created a cyclic effect of disinterest and do-nothing government which is running the Student Council into the ground. We urge you to disengage your radio earplugs, get out of bed, and do something constructive for your school before this lazy inaction becomes eternal sleep. Close Quaters In September the class of 1969 is likely to discover a distinct difference between acceptance and admission to Union College. Admission implies a physical entrance, and the new class, which promises to be excessively large, may have trouble jamming themselves through the main gate, much less trying to squeeze into cramped do,rmitory rooms. Seven hundred twen·~y-two people, the largest number ever picked by Union under normal peace-time chcum- stances, have been asked to come here next year. Ostensi- bly, these will find three hundred-fifty places in the fresh- man class, but this figure is hardly substantiated by last year's results. Of six hundred seventy-nine acceptances for the Class of '68, three hunudred forty-four elected to study here. Has Union's prestige dwindled so in just one year that an increase of forty-three in acceptances will yield but six more freshmen? Even if the admissions department has hit the nail on the head, however, and three hundred fifty men arrive, the dormitory facilities cannot comfortably accomodate them. Tlae Class of '68 has been forced to live three in a room within the withering walls of North College. Will South College be packed beyond livibility next? The solution to this dilemna is not the building of new dormitories after the school becomes overcrowded, but the reduction of class size until we can accomodate more stu- dents -- in both our housing and teaching facilities. II ALA BA!.·:.A UBER ALLES!! --·--- --- --------- -- ---·------- ------------- Letters to the Editor Outlandish Crime To ThE' Editor: Lust Saturday I was witness tu theft openly eonunitted hy Cniun students. Two six-foot lan- tlTns were take11 from the eating hall at the Lantern Lodge, Sara- toga Springs. In the eagerness tu possess the treasures, one of the lanterns wa.s partly wrecked and left outside. The other one was canied away. 1f it were not for the faet that I don't believe in generalisations, I coulrl easily disclose the name of the fraternity to which the thieves belonged - thew wore labelled jackets. Furthermore- the students were recognized hv my companions at the table. Ji1 other . words,. it was an openly eom1mtted cnme. And I ask mv- self the question: Is there ;10 social pressure that discourages these elements? I have reason to belie\'e that this incirlent does not stand alone. In any case-if you recently discovered a lante1·n in one of th~ frate1·nity-houses on eampus it quite JlOssihly was taken from' the LantPrn Lorlgl' am! belongs there. .Stall' Eskelano. Raps Concordy To thl' Editor, I h.a1·e become very disapiJoint- ed WIth the Concordiensis of tht:! last fe\1· weeks. As many Jleople I n.•ad the Concurrly w.ith a \grain of s:dt\ and yet looked to it to provide some communication on eampus. On Werlnesday, 17 Marrh 19fi5, I realeased some news con- cerning my class (Class Day Orators, etc.) which pertains to at least 2f30 students to O'CR campus news media and to the College News BU!eau. I have been waiting to see it in print. The q~esti~n that is raised in my m111d 1s: Does the ConcordiensiH owe to its \publishers\ a channel of information dissemination? I note in your masthead that the Concordiensis is \Puhlic:hed Fridays durin!?; the sehool year h~· thP Sturlent Body of l:nion Co:Iege, .Schenectady,\ N.Y.\ and knowing that in Title II Member- sh:p, section I of thl• Constitution of the Student Body of L'nion College it clearly states that ''ThP Student Body shall consist of all undergraduates in Union College who have paid the Stu- rlent AC\tivities fee for that year,\ I feel that it should prodde this sen·ice, And that as a \publisher\ I have the right to question your policies. I believe in freedom of the press and eclitorial independence but since the Newspa;per is OURS <'!HI Hot an independently run business, I think one of its main jobs should be to correctly spread OUR information. If perhaps the reason for this nmission is lack of \space I \\'uuld suggest adding two pages o1· taking another Concordy Poll to see what is read by the Stu- dent Body and what is merely filler. Sincerely yours, Gary Morris President 'fifi EDITOR'S :-.!OTE: Mr. MoiTis is a Senior, and despite his learn- ed advice to CONCORDIENSIS, it becomes evident in his letter that he has not been reading this paper at ail carefully during the past yea1·s. If he had, he surely '' ould have seen the announce- ments of class day officers-al- ways in the final issue before Rraduation. Spring Weekend To The Editor: We would like to take this op- portunity to point out a few im- portant farts about Union's up- coming Spring Weekend. It should he realized that Mr. Sei- fert's weekend has the largest budget in Union history. The suc- l ess of ~uch an expensive produc- tion depends largely on you, the students. The possibility of fu- ture weekends offering su~h out- standing talent is directly pro- portional to this year's Spring Weekend success. Next year's Student Tax Committee cannot be expected to approve our bud- get if Mr. Seifert's goes into the red. The next step is yours. We ut·ge everyone to support this Weekend and at the same time ~ee some outstanding entel·tain- ment. It should be noted that the Dave Bruheck Quartet was re- cently chosen the number one in- strunwntal jazz group according t.> a poll of some 93 colleges which appeared in \Billboard- :IIusic On Campus.\ Also, one should realize that a $7.50 Week- end couple ticket is $4.50 less thai! nonstudents \\·ill have to pay. Again we urge everyone's sup- pol·t anrl wish the class <Jf 1966 the best of luck on their Spring Weekend. The Officers of the Class of '67. Campus Calendar Friday, April 23 2:30-Tennis: Union vs. Vermont Saturday, April 24 1 :30-Tennis: Union vs. Harpur 2:00-Freshman Track: Union vs. RochestPr 2:45-Track: Union vs. Rocheste1· Tuesday, April 27 11 :30-Convocation: Address-Peter Viereck; Memorial Chapel 11 :30-Talk on Japanese Art. D1·. G. B. Washburn. O.C. Wednesday, April 28 3:00-Lacros·se: Union vs. Hobart 3 :30-Tennis: Union vs. Trinity Thut·sday, April 29 2 :30-BMaseball: Union vs. Hamilton 8:00-Convncation: Chambe1· Music Concert; Memorial Chapel Friday, April 30 2:30-Baseball; Union vs, Norwich Saturday, May 1 Cla-sses Suspended 2:00-Lacrosse: Union vs. Clarkson 2:00-Track: Union V'S. Middlebury 2:30-Freshman Tennis: Union vs. Bard Friday, April 23, 1965 Willison • • • (Continuer! ft•om Page 3) Committee) and others, ~mth and South, reach into \culturalily de- priYed\ but aspiring Negro homes to show the young tha>t learning Friday, is both enjoyable and rewarding. The Federal government is paying Negro and other dropot~ts to get more training. CORE (Congress of' .. Racial Equality) and Whitney Young of the National Urha.H League have proposed that Negroes be given not cmly special training, but also special privileges in trying oat new jobs. Some colleges admit Negro students with inadequate acad!:'mic preparati0H but outstand- ing potential. \T rights 1 r Americ: There has been increasing encourage1nent of Negro business. Every All-Negro banks anrl an in·sunmce compaHy haYe recently been formed tn New Yerk City, abll' to make loans to Negro businessmen who have been marginal only because of great di•fficulties in getting credit and bank loans. The new Fedel'al loan program to \'ery small businesses has been an especial boon to Negro enterpreneurs. As for other sources of <·ap,ital, howl'ver, there has been a ·si,gnal lack of innovative Negro ec0nomic crit.nP. Nr1thing like Prohi,bition ha,s come , ,f along to offer a steady and profitable way for N egToes to a:masg potential iHvestment capital. Even the making of hook, once a N egrfl monopoly is now dominatl:d by outsiders. I ~ strikes , student Instead, the arts provide a fast new roule of mobHity and a • 1 : I,·.' pratform for new proposals. The writers-J am~s B!lldwin, Sau_nders . The; vide, the ;;ire to ell The civil Congt\ess Student (SNCC), ers on th, from the Redding LeRoi Jones, and the rest-are consohdatmg a prest1geful and eve;! financially re·warding position fot· NegToes. Many stirll cry out fo1· that chan<re of ht•at·t in Arnerica that they so long have waited for in vain~ Some have gone on to blast out new social and ;. political positions in the cunent controversy. And they are joined by more and more successful Negro professimtal people, including the educated ministers. I, to :vir. BJ who accc ~~ Raleigh, groups il sponse is the proje Political Solutions Sought ·' ma6ly iJ haven't t to plan a Most have turned to politics for solutions, j0ining the whole ch·il rights movement in its determina,tion to t·echa·nnel. A_merican politics through the power of the Negro vote. But s1gmficantly enough, the new Negro politic ian has not yet emerged very clearly, ... except for Adam Clayton Powell. Hated by all ot?er Negro leaders, he nevertheless may represent a coming unconventwnal popular s!yle In. try rid! righ stereotyp However, last year quite no11 in Negro poHtics. If! the 1\' orth, onl.Y COR~ has also ventured mto taking a stand agamst local candidates hke ~a~or Wa-gner. In Mis'sissippi COFO (Council of Federated Orgamzat10ns) has helped launch the 'Freedom Democt·atic Party, which appeared at the Demo- cratic Convention last year and which is contesting the right of the regular white Mississippi Democmts to be seated in the Congress. • quite ere: Here we may see signs bt·ewing of anothel' major response to • \ the fru·strations of being a Negro in America. Among the Northern white and Negro SNCC workers in the SoutJ:., and among the NortJ:- ern Negro intellectuals there has ~een a rev1val of support for radi- :-lews\ lege studt were tryi student i> of the mE about a C'l rant?, p: jail?, vio: cal political solutions. Many begm to see the wh?le structure of Amel'ican life as militating against the gradual Improvement of Negroes' position. Instead, they see Negroes and the ot~er pqor.f?-ll- ing further and further behind in. the ra:~e ~o ~eep u~ wtth thJ?,,,psmg technical demands of automated mdustrwhzatwn, w1th less· ·,and less pov.~er to detnand a cut of the cake. They propose an immedi~tt; shift · .. in the distribution of power in the United States, before ~t IS too '• they had idealism high perc late to do so. · . One of these viewpoints believes in using t~e temp,orary, dJ-slo- cation of AmE'J'ican society, through tJ:.e non-viOlent dJsr?ptron of 11 ordinary life in order to bring concesswns from \the white power ·structures,\ ~s they persist in calling it. For a tim~ in 1963, af~~r the Birmingham riots Bayard Rustin of the Fellowship of Recon~Jh­ ation argued for this view. The local CORE \stall-in\ on the high- ways l!:'ading to the .opening ,of the New. York World's Fair ~ast spring was an extensiOn of th1s. But Rustm and James Farmer of National CORE refused to endorse them, because of the lack of spe- cific grievances and objectives. The r~cent, \plot\ to_ blo:v up tht• Statue of Liberty seems to have been pi'Jmar!ly the bra111-child ?f one man. Yet even James Foreman of SNCC at the great Washmgto_n March in August 1963 was :;o disillusioned and !l~gativc that ht~ speech there had to be censored by the other pa.rt1c1pants. . But these nihilistic tendencies have led to demands for still greater changes. One proposal, feare?. by white and N~gyo leaders l alike, is to openly arm Negro commum~1es. Ro?,ert F. W.tlllams ~n0\1' in Havana) has caliE'd for \Negroe~ '.'·Ith Gun.s af~er h1s expen~ncP ;j in Monroe, North Carolina; tlw mformal :;1phonmg of guns mt•> Southern Negro enmmunitics is occa~ionally rumored. Total Withdrawal and 'lalcolm X This responst>, in turn, is in some way~ similar to the Sl'~reg-a­ tionist and sece~essionist polil'iL'\ <'ailed for. by t~<' Bl!tck M_uslun>< of Elijah Muhamnwd and by the Black ~atJOnahst~. mclud111g those l('d by Malcolm X until ht wac: assascinated. They demand !'lot only civic self-defens(', but total political, as. well as .social, )deologJc~l, and psychological withdrawal from Amenca~ white society. , Th1s has been proposed before, as in the Commumst Party's repudtated pro- posal of the 1930's for a Negro Republic in the Sou~h. I;n fact, how- ev!:'r, neither the Black Muslims nor the Black Na~ronah~ts seem to he pursuing politil'al secession. The Black Mushms, hke M.arcus Garvey's back-to-Africa movement of the 1920's, have become stmply anoth~r militant and static movement linking poor Negroes. and s~me businessmen in an authoritatrian organization for Negro tdeologtcal and economic self-sufficiency. The Black Nationalists, on th~ oth~r hand, seem to be calling for a political upheaval by Ne~roes m. ~lh­ ance with other radicals to replace the present Amencan politiCal system. . t Yet with all these various programs, ordmary Negroes seem o have been little roused. Southern rural Negroes who have responded to voter registration rlrives are often p~or, bu,t their lea~e,rs are gen- erally the more art ive and properous Ill then· C\ommumtJes. In thr Southern and Northern city slums t)lere is a,Pathy ~nd resentment that has not yet focussed on the rathcal :;olutw!ls bcm~-1 preached t< 1 them. Only the educated ministers who call for.mtegrat!On, now that they are mobilized for political and sol'_ial action North and South, can appeal both to the Negro a!1Cl whit~ church-goers and to the poor fundamentalist Negroes. (Continued on Pag·e 6) LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOl DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies- Jewelry- Gifts- Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE ~############,##############~####################~#~ -~~o-><~~<-~~-><-~><-o<>~~~->~~~~~~ Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian - American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6·9554 1115 Barrett St. i I r. I - t l : l I (i I I I ' I f I I I I \' l ! the c Seersu coat ir ester/: natura

il 23, 1965 Friday; April 23, 1965 ·===============-------------~------~------~------------~--------------------------~5 ulturally de- learning is paying Civil Rights on Campus By Matthew Katz ( Congres·s of .f. · ' rban League but admit outstand- . \THINK YOUNG\ SEEMS TO BE THE PASS WORD FOR THE CIVIL 1:' right~ movement today. Indeed, all action groups, from Progressive Labor to Young Americans for Freedom, seem to be imbued with the spirit a:nd agile bodies of youth. Ev~ry day y~ung people are making headlines as members of marches sit-down strikes and ptcket lines. The overwhelming majority of these youths a~e college students. · business. been businessmen in getting •· very small As for lack of has come 11 r to amass a Negro bility and a in, Saunders 41 prestigeful still cry long have social and u. i y are joined including the whole American significantly clearly, , • leaders, style entured into In has helped ,' ti the Demo- right of the Congress. response to ~ • Northern the North- for radi- of of ' ' 1 er po,ot fall- · \sing es less e shl.ft ·f · 1s too .·, di-slo- isrqption of , power 1·963, after Reconcili- the high- 's Fair last Farmer of lack of spe- up the of one Washington that his ts. foi· still leaders (now experience guns into 'Segrega- Muslimfl of uding those no·t only and This has pro- n fact, how- seem to Marcus simply es and some ideological. the other in alii- political seem to responded ers are gen- ties. In the resentment preached to now that and South, and to the DISTRICT P.M. rant St. ·, Colleges Do Not Initiate . The Am.erican. college provides, or should pro- v~de, the stimulat~ng atmosphere in which the de- sire t~ ~o s~methmg for a cause ea:sily flourishes. The c1v1l r1ghts organizations, mo·st notably the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and the Student Non-Violent Co-ordinating Committee (SNCC), finds a large number of their field work- e~·s on the ca~PUJ?· . Ho·;wever, the idell;s ru·e usually fwm the pmd CIVil rights leadership, according to Mr. Bruce Clements of the English Department who . accompanied a voter l'egistration group to Ralergh,, l':l'·. C. last ye~r. He said tha.t the college groups .m1tlate v~ry htt!e. The main college re- sponse ~s to specific pro;ects, not the planning of the proJ~ts. Of course, college stud .. nts are pri- marily mterested in getting an education and haven't the time or the organizational kno~-how to plan action. . ,In ~rying to characterize the typical collegiate ctvi! nghts worker, one may bring to mind the stereotype we usually reserve for the best set. However, a psy•chiatrist who also went to Raleigh last year found the majority of the students to be quite normal. He said many were high caliber and quite creative. Newsweek 1\'Iag·azine conducted a poll of col- lege students for their March 22, 1965 issue. They were h·yihg to give a picture of what the college student is like today. Among the ql,lestion'S asked of the men and women were: If you felt strong-ly about a cause would you boycott a store or restau- rant?, participate in a demonstration?, go to jail?, violate the law? They were then asked if they had t>ver engaged in these activities. The idealism of the students was evident from the high percentages for these extreme actions. The College students show energy in demonstrating against inequalities: Why is there only apathy at Union? (Continued on Pag-e 6) ~~~~~~~~~~~====~========--~ The GALLEY 1735 Van Yranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOWN 1Sc HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15c (with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS _____________________ .20c French Fries ____________________ l2c Thick Shakes ___________________ 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~ the casual world of the Deans gate man Seersucker stripes for a lightweight, comfortably tailored sport coat in a strictly wash and wear blend of 65% Dacron* poly- ester/35% cotton, that's so porous it breathes with you. Boasts natural ease ... the greatest natural shoulder in America. · 29.95 1599 Union Street Precise, durable, all-weather stainless steel. ..... ONLY $6.95. Unique custom crafted to make any stainless waterproof watch look like it cost hundreds of dollars. TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Scllenectady, N.Y. Van Winkle. • • Jeffrey • • • (Continued from Page 3) (Continued from Page 3) H ha::~ .l;>een documented by the Jews and Irish Movement Bound With Kennedy and Italians who came over here during terrible The civil rights movement is bound u·p in and, times in their histories, poor, ignorant and hated, perhaps perhaps even the impetus of a new feel- and proved that is is possible and inevitible for ing. Beginning with the last years of the Eisen- a man to do something to improve himself. hower administration, people began to notice that I Again I can heae the voice of the liberal whin- there were indeed grave problems facing this na- ' ing in my ear. \But the Negro came here as a tion. At that time .the· nation was blessed with slave. He has never been given a chance.\ Well, a young vigorous leader who was committed to this is true. And it makes it all the more difficult solving those problems. Although he no longer for a man to help himself if he doesn't know what leads us, the phrases which President Kennedy 1 to do. But still, the Negro ju~:>t sat there. Any used to describe and to inculcate renewed vitality ; fool knows that when he's in bad shape he's got in the nation linger on. President Johnson has · to find a way out for himself. The Negro should carried on, in his own way, the legacy of the I have learned early that no one was going to do Kennedy years. · anything for him-and still he just sat there. I say that the civil rights movement was the ; It is the responsibility of every man to take precurser of such achievements as medicare and i care of himself. If every man had to tuke out federal aid to education because the movement i time to keep an eye on eve·ry other man, he would brought to the attention of the nation the intoler- i have no time to ta:ke care of himself-and it is able conditions to which the Negro was subjected, I . quite conceivable that we might still be living in <'onditions which are tolerable not only because caves if the man who invented the wheel had not they were detrimental to 0ne group, but also be- l . taken his eye off his neighbor long enough to cause they were symptems of the faifure of Amer- build one. ican governments to cope with the problems of We live in a society that stresses .independent, modern living. Negro agitation, then, pinpointed 1 ! competitive action. The core of every endeavor several of the conditions plaguing not only a mi- has always been the individual man. He strives nority group but also the ·whole nation. Conse- 1 by himsel.f to reach the highest peak his natural quently, these problems have been brought to the talents can carry him to, and live's with his fellow public a:ttention and steps have been taken to inhabitants of that peak as an equal-but only solve them. after he has wo1·ked to educate himself and prove Invigorates Democratic Ideals his capability. The Negro has not eduoated or Dwarfing its achievements for the Negroes, the proven himself. He has been waiting for someone civil rights movement's supreme contribution to to accomplish these things for him. America has been to invigorate America'·s com- ! believe that the South treats the Negro like a mitment to the liberal democratic ideology, While child because the Negro has indicated over the this achievement has been by no means small, it years, by mead aeceptance and docile obedience to too, in turn, is dwarfted by the problems remain- the white maq\s dictates, that he wants to be ing. If thi::; revitalized commitment continues to treated that way. thrive, its impact will not be limited to the United The situation reminds me of the boy who, after States but will indeed show the world that the clinging to the paternal apron strings until he United States is not a staid, stuffy nation opposed feels mature enough to leave home, has to fight to change, but a nation concerned with the wei- parental pressures to keep him a child. The par- fare of human beings. ent doesn't want him to go; if he leaves home after all tht>se years the place just won't be the Finally, the Negro is on his way. With a solid, same. It is a traumatic experience for both and long overdue leadership, he will lop out of parties - and is made more difficult if the silly the toilet and wriggle around on the bathroom child delays his departure out of fear or family floor with the rest of us. obligation. The Negro has matured late; and now But he will become equal as a result of the his parents are howling. If he had left home 80 white man's guilt feelings, manufactured cunning years ago or even 50 pears ago the pain wouldn't minds oriented to the workings of mass psy- have been nearly so acute and the noise would chology-not throug·h an effort of his own with no ;;h;;;;a~v~e~-b~e~e~n;__ m~u~c~h~m~o~d~ifi~e~d=a~n~d~n~o~t=n~ea=I~·l=y=a~s===u~g=l=y~. ==~o~n~e~d~e~ig~n~l~·n~g~m~a~j~e~st~ic to offer a lily white hand. By solving problems in astronautics, Air Force scientists expand man's knowledge of the universe. Lt. Howard McKinley, M.A., tells about research careers on the Aerospace Team. (Lt. McKinley holds degrees in electronics and electri- cal engineering from the Georgia Institute of Tech- nology and the Armed Forceslnstitute of Technology. He received the 1963 Air Force Research & Devel- opment A ward for his work with inertial guidance components. Here he answers some frequently-asked questions about the place of college-trained men and women in the U.S. Air Force.) Is Air Force research really advanced, compared to what others are doing? It certainly is. As a matter of fact, much of the work being done right now in uni- versities and industry had its beginnings in Air Force research and development projects. After all, when you're involved in the development of guidance sys- tems for space vehicles-a current Air Force project in America's space ·program-you're working on the frontiers of knowledge. What areas do Air Force scientists get involved in? Practically any you can name. Of course the principal aim of Air Force research is to expand our aerospace capability. But in carrying out this general purpose, individual projects explore an extremely wide range of topics. \Side effects\ of Air Force research are often as important, scientifically, as the main thrust. How important is the work a recent graduate can expect to do? It's just as important and exciting as his own knowledge and skill can make it. From my own experience, I can. say that right from the start I was doing vital, absorbing research. That's one of the things that's so good about an Air Force career-it gives young people the chance to do meaningful work in the areas that really interest them. What non-scientific jobs does the Air Force oll'er? Of course the Air Force has a continuing need for rated officers-pilots and navigators. There are also many varied and challenging administrative-manage- rial positions. Remember, the Air Force is a vast and compleK organization. It takes a great many different kinds of people to keep it running. But there are two uniform criteria: you've got to be intelligent, and you've got to be willing to work hard. What sort of future do I have in the Air Force? Just as big as you want to make it. In the Air Force, talent has a way of.coming to the top. It has to be that way, if we're going to have the best people in the right places, keeping America strong and free. What's the best way to start an Air Force career? An excellent way-the way I started-is through Air Force Officer Training School. OTS is a three-month course, given at Lackland Air Force Base, near San Antonio, Texas, that's open to both men and women. You can apply when you're within 210 days of graduation, or after you've received your degree. How long will I be committed to serve? Four years from the time you graduate from OTS and receive your commission. If you go on to pilot or navigator training, the four years starts when you're awarded your wings. Are there other ways to become an Air Force officer? There's Air Force ROTC, active at many colleges and universities, and the Air Force Academy, where admission is by examination and Congressional ap- pointment. If you'd like more information on any Air Force program, you can get it from the Professor of Aerospace Studies (if there's one on yQur campus) or from an Air Force recruiter. United States Air Force

23, 1965 Friday, April 23, 1965 .================----------------------------~--------------------------~----------------~5 de- learning Civil Rights on Campus By :\latthew I\atz is paying of ., ban League but admi.t outstand- business. been. in getting . \THINK YOUNG\ SEEMS TO BE THE PASS WORD FOR THE CIVIL r nght~ movement today. Indeed, all a;ction groups, from Progressive Labor to Young Amencans for Freedom, seem to b~ Imbued ~ith the spirit and agile bodies of youth. Ev~ry day y~ung p_eople are makmg headlines as members of marches, sit-down I ~ strikes and prcket lmes. The overwhelming majority of these youths are college very small As for lack of' , students. Colleges Do Xot Initiate n has come \ to amass a Negro . The Am.erican. cullege Pl'Ovides, ot• should pro- v.Jde, the stunulatmg atmosphel'e in which the de- 'r s1re t~ ~o s?mething for a eause ea·sily floul'ishPs. The c1nl nghts organizations, most notably the Congt·ess . of R~cial Equality (CORE) and the Student Non-V1slent Co-ordil1ating Committee ility and a Saunders p:restigeful stir11 cry long have social and are joined including whole American ignificantly clearly, p·o leaders, style into In has helped the Demo- ight of the \I i .. · (SNCC), finds a la,rge number of their field work- ' ~rs on the ca~npu~ .. Ho:'A'eYer, the ideas are usually i from the pa1d C'JV il ngh ts leadersl1ip, according 1! to Mr. Bruce qements o.f the English Department I , w?o . accoJ~1P<l;llled a vote·r regi.stration group to >- • Raleigh,,~·. C. last year. He sa1d that the colleg-e groups _uutwte v~1·y htt.le. The main college re- spol1Se ~s t0 spec1fie fH'OJeets, not the planning of the proJ~cts. Of coyrse, college students are pri~ ,, mtll'l•ly mter~sted m getting an education, and haven't the trme oJ· the oJ·ganiza,tional know-how to plan action. . _Ill ~rying to characterize the typieal collegiate l'lnl t'lghts worker, one may bring· to mind the stereotyp<• we usually reserve fo1· the best set. However, a psychiatl'ist who al·so went to Raleigh las.t year found the majority of the students to be quite normal. He sairl man\' were- high caliber and • quite cl'eative. · .:-lewsweek Mag·azine c,mducted a poll of col- lege students for their March 22, 1965 h;sue. They were tl'J:in~ to gh·e a pietJ:!l'l• of what the college • ., student Js hke today. Among the questions asked of the men and women were: If you felt strongly about a eause would y0u boycott a store or restau- :·a:lt?, participate in a demonstration?, go to .Jal'l ?, v10late the law? They were then asked if to e Northern the North- for radi- of of r poor fall- t~$~, rising ss·.·and less shi.ft ~t is too '' they had ever engagerl in these activities. The idealism of the students was evident from the high pel'<'E'ntages for these extreme actions. The (Continued on Page G) C~llege students show energy in demonstrating ag-ainst inequalities: Why is thPJ'e o11ly aJ>athy at Cnion? ' . di-slo- of hite power 1963, after Reconcili- the hig-h- Fair last Farmer of of spe- ow up tht• of one Nashington that hi~ • • for still leaders ( TIO\\' experiencr j!;Uns into> segrega- nf those not only and This has pro- , fact, how- seem to ke Marcus simply some ideological the other oes in alli- political es seem to responded are gen- In thr ' (. resentment to now that and South. - to the : DISTRICT uipment .M. St. f fJ I I r f I i I \' i ,, The GALLEY 1735 Van Vranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOWN 1Sc HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15 c (with meat sauce 19c j FISH FRYS ______________________ 20c I French Fries ________ - ___ - __ -- -- - 12c I Thick Shakes ___________________ 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! ------ -·----· ---- ·-·--! the casual world of the Deansgate man Seersucker stripes for a lightweight, comfortably tailored sport coat in a strictly wash and wear blend of 65% Dacron* poly- ester/35% cotton, that's so porous it breathes with you. Boasts natural ease ... the greatest natural shoulder in America. · 29.95 1599 Union Street Precise, durable, all-weather stainless steel ..... ONLY $6.95. Unique custom crafted to make any stainless waterproof watch look like it cost hundreds of dollars. TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. I Van Winkle . • • (Continued from Page 3) 1 It has been documented by the Jews and Irish and Italians who came over here duriag tenible times in their histories, pool', ignorant and hated, and proved that is is ]JOtisible and inevitible for a nuu1 tc.J do :;omethi11g- to im·prove himself. Again I eun ht•ar the voiee of the liberal whin- ing in my ear. \But the Negro eame here as a slave. He has ne,·er bel·n given a chanee.\ Well, · lhis is true. And it makes it .all the more difficult .J'o1· a man to help himself if he doesn't know what to do. But :;till, the Negro just sat there. Any loc:>l knows that w·hen he's in bad shape he's got lo find a way otlt for himself. The Negro should havl' learned early that no one was going to do anything fo.r him-and sHI:l he just sat tlwre_ It i,; the n•sponsi•bility of every man to take care of himsl'lf. If every man had to take out time to kel')J an eye on e\'ery other man, he would haH• 1111 liml' to take eare ,.,f hinisl'lf-and it b; quiL• l'onceh·able that \\'L' mig-ht still be living in eavps if' the man who im'L'Ilted the wheel had not ' takron his eyp off his neighboJ• long enough to hui.ld one. We live in a sock•ty that stre~ses independent, competitive adion. The core of every endeavor ' has always been thP individual man. He stl'ives by himself to l'l'ach the highPst Pl':tk his natural talents can eany him to, and live·s with hi:; fellow ' inhabitants of that peak as :m equal-but only ' afte1· he has w01·ked to edurate himself and prove his capability. The Negl'O has not educated or i pmven himself. He has been waiting for someone : t@ accomplish these things for him. I I bclie1·e that the South treats the Negro like a 1 chile! because the Negro has indkated over the ' year,, by mead aeceptanee and docile obedience to j the white man''s dietates, that he wants to bl' t1·eated that way. 1 The sitLmtion remind\ me of the boy who, after clinging to the paternal apron strings until he feels ma.t1:1re enough to leave home, has to fight parental pressures to keep him a child. The par- ent doesn't want him to go; if he leaves home Jeffrey • • • (Continued from Page 3) :\lovement Bound With Kennedy The civH rights movement is bound up in and, perhaps perhaps even the impetus of a new feel- ing. Beginning with the last years of the Eisen- hower administration, people Legan to notice that there were indeed gmve problems facing this na- tion. At that time the nation was blessed with a young vigor0us leader who was cemmitted to solving those problems. Altho11gh he no longer leads us, the phrases which President Kennedy used to descl'ibe and to inculcate renewed vitality in the nation linger on. President J0hnson has <\UlTied on, in his own way, the legacy of the Kennedy years. I say that the civil rights movement was the precu1·ser of such aehievemeHts as J1tedicare and federal aid to education because the movement b!'ought to the attenti0n of the nation the intoler- able conditions to which the ]\' egro was su·bjected, c·otHlitiutls which are tolerable not only because they we1·e det!'imental to one group, but also be- <·ause they were symptoms of the failure of Amer- ican governments to cope with the problems of modern living. Negro agitation, then, pin•pointed several of the conditions plaguing not only a mi- nority group but also the whole nati0n. Conse- quently, these p1·oblems have been brought to the public attention and steps have been taken to ,;oh·e them. Invigorates Democratic Ideals Dwarfing its achievements for the Neg1·oes, the eivil rights movement'·s supreme contribution to America ha;s been to invigorate America'·s com- mitment to the liberal democratic ideology. While this achievement has been by no means small, it too, in turn, is dwarfted by the problems remain- ing. If this revitalized commitment continues to thrive, its impact will not be limited to the United States but will indeed show the world that the Cnited States is not a staid, stuffy nation opposed to change, but a nation concerned with the wel- fare of human beings. a.fter all th('se year~ the place ju:;t won't be the Finally, the ~eg-ro is on his \\'ay. With a solid, Rame. It is n traumatir expe!'ience for both and long overd1;1e leadership, he will lop out of partie,; - ancl i's made more difficult if the silly the toilet and wriggle around on the Lathrooru child delays his departure out of fear or family floor with the rest of us. oblig-ation, The Negro has matUl'ed late; and now But he will become equal as a result of the his parents are howling. If he had left home 80 white man's guilt feelings, manufactured cunning yeaJ·s ago or even 50 pem·s ago the pain wouldn't minds oriented to the workings of mass psy- have been nearly so acute and the noise would rhology-not thl'ough an effort of his own with no ;.;h;.;a~v~e_b~e~e~n~m~u~r_h.....,.m=od.;.;;.;;ifi~e...;d..-a_n..;.d;...;;;;n~o~t~n~e=a=r=l)='~a=s::=:u=:g::b::'·==~o~n=e~d::::=el=:.g:=n==:i==:n='!g~m=a=j~e=s~tic to offer a lily white hand. ·-:-:\ ·~ ... ·~. By solving probl.ems in astronautics, Air Force scientists expand man's knowledge of the universe. Lt. Howard McKinley, M.A., tells about research careers on the Aerospace Team. (Lt. McKinley holds de~:rees in electronics and electri- cal engineering from the Geor~:ia Institute of Tech- noloRY and the Armed Forces Institllfe of Technology. He received the 1963 Air Force Research & Devel- opment A ward for his work with inertial guidance components. Here he anstvers some frequently-asked questions about the place of college-trained men and women in the U.S. Air Force.) Is Air Force research really advanced, compared to what others are doing? It certainly is. As a matter of fact, much of the work being done right now in uni- versities and industry had its beginnings in Air Force research and development projects. After all, when you're involved in the development of guidance sys- tems for space vehicles-a current Air Force project in America's space program-you're working on the frontiers of knowledge. What areas do Air Force scientists get involved in? Practically any you can name. Of course the principal aim of Air Force research is to expand our aerospace capability. But in carrying out this general purpose, individual projects explore an extremely wide range of topics. \Side effects\ of Air Force research are often as important, scientifically, as the main thrust. How important is the work a recent graduate can expect to do? It's just as important and exciting as his own knowledge and skill can make it. From my own experience, I can say that right from the start I was doing vital, absorbing research. That's one of the things that's so good about an Air Force career-it gives young people the chance to do meaningful work in the areas that really interest them. What non-scientific jobs does the Air Force offer? Of course the Air Force has a continuing need for rated officers-pilots and navigators. There are also many varied and challenging administrative-manage- rial positions. Remember, the Air Force i~ a vast and complex organization. It takes a great many different kinds of people to keep it running. But there are two uniform criteria: you've got to be intelligent, and you've got to be willing to work hard. What sort of future do I have in the Air Force? Just as big as you want to make it. In the Air Force, talent has a way of coming to the top. It has to be that way, if we're going to have the best people in the right places, keeping America strong and free. What's the best way to start an Air Force career? An excellent way-the way I started-is through Air Force Officer Training School. OTS is a three-month course, given at Lackland Air Force Base, near San Antonio, Texas, that's open to both men and women, You can apply when you're within 210 days of graduation, or after you've received your degree. How long will I be committed to serve? Four years from the time you graduate from OTS and receive your commission. If you go on to pilot or navigator training, the four years starts when you're awarded your wings. Are there other ways to become an Air Force officer? There's Air Force ROTC, active at many colleges and universities, and the Air Force Academy, where admission is by examination and Congressional ap- pointment. If you'd like more information on any Air Force program, you can get it from the Professor of Aerospace Studies (if there's one on your campus) or from an Air Force recruiter. United States Air Force

6 Collegiate Civil Rights ••• Bo.rn Leaves Edward Born, associate direc- (Continued from Page 5) admissions staff v-isit deprived number actually participating to recruit for Union. This has. r~~r J~l~!~~libe~~~~o~~lt:lloie~h: was much smaller. Newsweelr Negro high schools in the South Bowdoin Alumnus. Born has been vlso asked how much confidence been done at other schools such at Union since June 1961. In Sep- as Swarthmore and Bow din. • the students had in various insti- tember 1963 he was promoted tutions. The civil rights move- Dean Lockwood has suggested· from assistant director to asso- ment rated Jess support than or- an e~<lhange program with a ciate direcotr of public rel'ations. · d l\ · t nd southern Negro school. He was a 1957 gt·adua.te ·of Bow- gamze 1·e lgion, goveTnmen a · There are problems that must science in ascending order, and doin Co lege. mol ·e support than the Democra- be faced. The JiberaJ college p t F h 19 4 U . tl ·c Party, tl1e commun!'cati\on~ I·n- into an eJ·a of awareness and . e er · 11 rer, a · 6 mon ~ d · t t h · · graduate, will take over the post . dustries, labor, and the Republi- ~: es'.\~ · 0 · correc t e mJust- of assistant director 0f public . can Party in descending order. 1 1 ces of hls times. relations on Monday. His primary duty will be the preparation of Rece11t Attempt Failed news releases. This brings us te the civil \l T,;e....-nck While at Union, Fuhrer rna- rights effort here at Union. Vic t' a, I &:.- • • • jored in English, played lacrosse Fazio, oresident of the Student . . for two years, and was chairman Council,\ helperl start an or~ani- .1 (~oJ~tm\'ed f:om p.age. 1) llf the undergraduate fund drive zation here but there was not Born m )I ew. York C1ty m 1916, in 1960. As a senior he was a Friday, April 23, 1965 Willison ... (Continued from Page 4) Yet these ministers do not a£- . feet the very large number of Negroes who are either poor and dispirited or educated and disaf- fected. These two group·s are be- ginning to work with one another in the rent strikes and other self- help slum Beighborhood action. programs that individuats, wet- fare m:ganizations, and even the New York City Mobilization :f<>r Youth (MFY} are . organizing. · Should these get off the ground, they may bec()me the sou1•ce of political leverage for political ac- tivists. There is one final point -of view. Friday, AF At Th1 tJ.ohn Wain and author on, his Ion, \Wildtra II poem, fille; the gloom gone wron and critici~ tnnite peo1 alike. \Wi of homog01 cussion of r ciety. enough inte;·est to keep the m0ve- Professor V1ereck gl'ad.uated reporter for the Schenectady I ment alive. Union's Civil Rights summa ~um l~ude from Harvard Gazette. Last August J1e was Standing around Idol editor, Rodham Tullos, are left to right: Franlc Committee died soon after spon- CGllege m 1931 · As an undergrad- . aypohited director of public rela-1 Mauro and Mike Kaufman, Handboolc Co-editors eleet; and Frank soring a concert staning Dizzie uate h~ was one of _the few stu- twn~ for C~annel 17 • W.M.~.T. Khedoul'i Garnet editor elect. Mike Spodak next year's Garnet busi- Gillespie last year. Fazio said de!lts m Harvard ~1story .to ~·e- He IS a nat1ve of San Francisco, ' . ' . James Baldwin ha~ :said that ' \whatever white people do no-t know about Negroes reveals . . . what they do not know about themselves.\ American Negroes should be proud of their own dignity in adversity and of their joy in life itself, at which he thinks whites have failed. In fact, JiOhn Wt the forces for in his inuustrial crushed n1: routine of the farm, Ford's ArnE that the!'€ is now enough interest ce1ve both the Ga·rr1son pnze for a Marine Corps ·veteran, and a ness manager was absent when the picture was taken. on campus but a leader must be ve~se, an4 the Bowdoin medal for member of Psi Upsilon. he tens American Negroes that \• \there is no reason for you to try •Russia, ha: ity into ar entiated, 1 The Pt'odu .great mat~ found who' would be willing to phllosophtc~l prose. make such an activity his major A_fter domg graduate work at extra-curricular activity. He sta- Chnst College,, Oxfo1•d, on a ted that fragmentation of interest Henry Fellowship, he ret~uned ~o IFC • • is what doomed his group. Harvard, where he I'ecetved his (Co:p.tinued from Pag·e 1) Master of Arts degt•ee in 1939 Civil rig)lts is still a contro- versial issue at Union. Some members of the Student Council believe that such an issue should not be allocated funds. Also, there is a matter of discrim- ination at Union. I am not re- ferring to any admissions policy, but to the fraternity system. One fraternity Phi Delta Theta, oper- ates und~r a written restricted membership clause; this sit~a tion will ceTtainb be changed !11 the near future, ·and is being worked on now. Other houses, ho·wever, have unwritten clauses that can· not be attacked through legisla- tion. College Not Idle The faculty and administra- tion ha\\e not been idle. Dr. Johnson has suggested th:at the Have Y' our Watch Repaired Right! ••. Rigllt Here! Bring it. in and let our specialists look it over. Reliable service is our watchword. And for new beauty, re-style you:r watch w1th a smart- JV-e/s!er WATCHBAND Time Center Jewelers 428 State St. FR 4-018:3 RESTAURANT EQUlP.MEfolT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE ·NOVELTIES RENTALSt GLASSWARE DISHES SlL'IIERWARE DACY PAPER CO. Succenar to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc .. E•tabll•h•d usa WHOLESALE I>ISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-442CJ 28-34 N. BroadwGy Schenectady 5, N. Y. Jay and his Doctor of Philosophy in. has made the most significant History in 1942. Viereck went contributions in activities and abroad in 1949 to study poetry school participation. The seniors under a Guggenheim Fellowship. nominated were: Pankenier, Mor- ris, Evans, Wolfe, Dittleman, Taught at Harvard, Smith Fazio, Hannock, and McCray. The Prior to his appointment at winner will be announced on Mount Holyoke in lMS, Viereck Prize Day. had been a member of the history Help Day departments at both Harvard It was announced that Satur- University and Smith College. He day, April 24 will be the annual held the Elliston chair in poetry Pledge Help Day. In the past, at the University of Cincinnati the pledge classes have worked in 1955. with girls' and boys' clubs in the This series of lectures is being area. This year they will work sponsored by the International with t11e Schenectady Park and Relations Club of Union College, Recreation Department, in an ef- under the chairmanship of Oscar fort to cliean up Central Park as Rosenbl<Jom. a I'esult of the ice storm damage FERRO PHARMACY 575 N·ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE this nast winter. ALVORD'S SHELL STATION 187 Nott Terrace BRAKES TUNE UP MUFFLERS WHEEL BALANCE Dl 6-9847 EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE Amazing new I iquid plastic coating used on all types of sur- faces interior or exterior. Eliminates waxing when applied on Asphalt Ti!P, Vinyl, Linoleum, Vinyl Asbestos, Hard Wood, and Furniture. Completely eliminates painting when applied to Wood, Metal, or Concrete surfaces. This finish is also recom- mended. for boats and automobiles. NO COMPETITION As these are exclusive formulas in demand by all businesses, industry and homes. No franchise fee. Minimum investment-- $300. Maximum investment--$7,000. Investment is secured by inventory. Factory trained personnel will help set up your business. For complete details and descriptive literature write: CHEM-PLASTICS & PAINT CORP. 1828 Locust St. Louis 3, Mo. Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 __ 11 Board Choses Editors The Publication Board recently Rodham Tulloss stated that the announced the 1965-66 editors of Idol will remain the same in for- the Idol, Garnet, and the Union· mat and size. A future issue will College Student Handbook. Rod- be devoted to music. Tulloss em- ham Tulloss will again be in phasized the need for more stu- charge of the Idol while Frank dent participation. Mauro and Mike Kaufman will co-edit the Union College Student Handbook. Frank Khedouri will be editor .of the Garnet and Mike Spodak business manager. Next year will see the begin- ning of a new publication, the Union College Student Handbook. This publication will replace the F'reshman Record and the Fresh- man Handbook and will provide extra pertinent informaion for ihe student. • Clemens. • • (Continued from Page 1) workers will attempt to unify the Negro communities with which they will work. They will trv to draw out the local Negro leadership that can work with the white leaders or organize action, such as marches, when necessary. to become like white people and there is no basis whatever for their impertinent assumption that they must accept you.\ Instead, Negroes must help whites accept themselves and their own un- known drive's and dark history. So the problem is not to let ~r drive as many Negroes as possi- ble to become exactly like all other ordinary Americans, but all other Americans to rec-ognize that \ unreconstructed Negroes now are part of the American character. Baldwin says we must all learn to live with that and to di'stribute our rights and rewards accord- ingly, or else we all will be de- stroying something in ourselves. American culture is not mono- lithic and it is changing in o-ther I respects; pe11haps Baldwin's hope will come to pass in this life, as Wordsworth concluded, \the place where, in the end, we find our happiness, Ol' not at all!\ ' • .. ~J Tom Huck sought scientific excitement ·- : g creased tho in philosor Ford, and \The com1 The Model is dead.\ like the mi whipped, a of uniform \Sel: \Wildtra ture •of th1 evaluation maining in Through t and varie Wain show for ft·eedoJ \instinctua dreams, wl in re\'olts 1 the reason' ion. The p day's soci: tempts to ,·iduality, <lorn, indiv ran regain life. Hon At j Harold J fessor Em spoke on '\ Age\ at a Apl\il 20, ii ner, w·hich Delphic So Tax Comrn !ton of the partici pate1 gram at l: Elfe Larrabee of the con the schola impact of ' plaining ho mate exce s ln·aries by infortnatioi ject. A.ltho1 ~ain parts ' erased by simula..ting 1eplace tn Larry M' Delphic So 11ing 's acti1 the next ,;eniors anc the honors then addre honor stud sors. tJ Wash Set J He's finding it at Western Electric Ohio University conferred a B.S.E.E. degree on C. T. Huck in 1956. Tom knew of Western Elec- tric's history of manufacturing development. He realized, too, that our personnel development pro· gram was expanding to meet tomorrow's demands. After graduation, Tom immediately began to work on the development of electronic switching systems. Then, in 1958, Tom went to the Bell Tele· phone Laboratories on a temporary assignment to help in the advancement of our national military capabilities. At their Whippany, New Jersey, labs, Tom worked with the W.E. development team on computer circuitry for the Nike Zeus guidance sys- tem. Tom then moved on to a new assignment at W.E.'s Columbus, Ohio; Works. There, Tom is work- ing on the development of testing circuitry for the memory phase of electronic switching systems. This constant challenge of the totally new, combined with advanced training and education opportunities, make a Western Electric career enjoyable, stimulating and fruitful. Thousands of young men will realize this in the next few years. How about you? If responsibility and the challenge of the future appeal to you, and you have the qualifications we are looking for, talk with us. Opportunities for fast- moving careers exist now for electrical, mechani- cal and industrial engineers, and also for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. And be sure to arrange for an intervtew when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. Westfi!rlt Elflcfric MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY UNIT OF TH£. a£.LL SYSTE'Mtj' .N EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ~ ~rmcipal manufacturing locations in 13 cittes 0 Operating center; •n many of these same cities plus 36 otliers throughout the U.S. ~ngineering Research Center, Pnnceton. N.J.OTeletvoe Coro .. Skokie. Ill .. Little Rock, Ark. 0 General Headauarter~. New York City .ll The Waf 1oluntary program < will be hel f) in Washinl dents with Pst in pub lected to IJ gram. Thel bv Profe chairman Deparbneni l'articipant 'lf govermr duct a. ser! Public figu likely to i ample, to 1 the Suprer The New Congress, t CIO, A.M State and Students VI Jlflrtunity t both Natit let·s, and v ~·enators ~ All studE ther detail fessot Bo~ hefore Ma:

6 Collegiate Civil Rights ••• Born Leaves Edward Born, associate direc- tor of public relations, will leave in June to become editor of the Bowdoin Alumnus. Born has been at Union since June 1961. In Sep- tember 1963 he was promoted from assistant director to asso- ciate direcotr of public relations. He was a 1957 graduate of Bow- (Continued from Page 5) number actually participating was much smaller. Newsweek :Jlso asked how much confidence the students had in various insti- tutions. The civil rights move- ment rated less support than or- ganized religion, government and science in ascending order, and more support than the Democra- tic Party, the communications in- dustries, labor, and the Republi- can Party in descending order. admissions staff visit deprived to recruit for Union. This has 1\ egro high schools in the South been done at other schools such as Swarthmore and Bowdin. · Dean Lockwood has suggested an exchange program with a southern Negro school. There are problems that must 'be faced. The Hberal college into an era of awareness and· a desir~ to correct the injust- ices of his times. Recent Attempt Failed I ~ This brings us to 't~e civ,il .. T;e~Dck rights effort here at t:mon. VIC 1 t' .,_ II et:... · • • • Fazio, president of the Stude~t j • Council, helped start an orgam-1 (~o~tmued from ~age. 1) zation here, but there wall not BOJ n m New. York C1ty m 1916, doin Co lege. Peter Fuhrer, a 1964 Union graduate, will take over the post of assistant director of public relations on Monday. His primary duty will be the preparation of news releases. enough interest to keep the move- Professor VIereck graduated ment alive. Union's Civil Rights summa ~urn laude from Harvard Committee died soon after spon- College m 1937. As an undergrad- soring a concert starring. Dizz~e uate h~ was one of .the few stu- Gillespie last year. Fazto said de!lts m Harvard htstory to re- that there is now enough interest ceive both the GaHison prize for on campus, but a leader must be vet:se, an~ the Bowdoin medal for found who would be willing to ph!losoph!Cl_ll prose. While at Union, Fuhrer ma- jored in English, played lacrosse for two years, and was chairman of the undergraduate fund drive In 1960. As a senior he was a I reporter for the Schenectady I Gazette. Last August he was Standing around I appointed director of public rela- Mauro and l\iike tions for Channel 17, W.M.H.T. He is a native of San Francisco, Khedouri, Garnet · a Marine Corps v~teran, and a ness manager was member of Psi Upsilon. make such an activity his major Atter domg graduate work at extra-curricular activity. He sta- Christ College,, Oxford, on a ted that fragmentation of interest Henry Fellowship, he ret;uned ~o is what doomed his group. Harvard, where he received h1s Master of Arts degree in 1939 and his Doctor of Philosophy in History in 1942. Viereck went abroad in 1949 to study poetry under a Guggenheim Fellowship. Civil rig}1ts is still. a contro- versial issue at Umon. Some members of the Student Council believe that such an issue should not be allocated funds. Also, there is a matter of discrim- Taught at Harvard, Smith · t\ t Union I am not re- ma lOTI a . . . r Prior to his appointment at fening to any ad!UlSSIOI1S po ocy, Mount Holyoke in 1948 Viereck tut to ~he fra~ermty system. ne had been a member of the history fratermty, Ph1 De~ta Theta, <?perd departments at both Harvard ates unde_r a wntten. re.stnc!e University and Smith College. He membersh~p clause; thls Sit~atJohn I held the Elliston chair in poetry will certamly be . chan~ed 111 t e at the University of Cincinnati near future, and IS bemg worked 1 in 1955 . on now. Other houses, however, , . . . have unwritten clauses that can- Th1s series of lectures 1s ~emg not he attacked through legisla- spons_?red oy the I~ternatwnal . Relat10ns Club of Umon College, t10n. under the chairmanship of Oscar College Not Idle Rosenbloom. The faculty and administra- tion have not been idle. Dr. Johnson has suggested that the Have Your Watch Repaired Right! ••. Right Here! FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE IFC • • • (Continued from Page 1) has made the most significant contributions in activities and school participation. The seniors nominated were: Pankenier, Mor- ris, Evans, Wolfe, Dittleman, Fazio, Bannock, and McCray. The winner will be announced on Prize Day. Heh) Day It was announced that Satur- day, April 24 will be tile annual Pledge Help Day. In the pa·st, the pledge classes have worked with girls' and boys' clubs in the area. This year they will work with the Schenectady Park and Hecreation Department, in an ef- fort to cliean up Central Park as a result of the ice storm damage this nast winter. ALVORD'S SHELL STATION 187 Nott Terrace BRAKES TUNE UP MUFFLERS WHEEL BALANCE Dl 6-9847 Bring it in and let our specialists look it over. Reliable service EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE is our watchword. And for new beauty, re-style your watch w1th a smart- ./(rpf.y/er WATCHBAND Time Center Jewelers I I 428 State St. FR 4-0183 ------------------~1 __ I IIESTAUIIANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES IAR SUPPLIES POL YETHELENE CELLOPHANE DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS• GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER CO. Succe11or to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. EstabHshtd 1111 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAP!R-PAPEI !lAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectad)' 5, N. Y, Jay Amazing new liquid plastic coating used on all ty()eS of sur- fac(·s interior or exterior. Eliminates waxing when applied on Asphalt Tile, Vinyl, Linoleum, Vinyl Asbestos, Hard Wood, and Furniture. Completely eliminates painting when applied to Wood, Metal, or Concrete surfaces. This finish is also recom- mended for boats and automobiles. NO COMPETITION As these are exclusive formulas in demand by all businesses, industry and homes. No franchise fee. Minimum investment-- $300. Maximum investment-$7,000. Investment is secured by inventory. Factory trained personnel will help set up your business. For complete details and descriptive literature write: CHEM-PLASTICS & PAINT CORP. 1828 Locust St. Louis 3, Mo. Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET 2Jiamon~ ... Board The Publication announced the 19 the Idol, Garnet, College Student I ham Tulloss wil charge of the Id Mauro and Mike co-edit the Union Handbook. Fran be editor of the ( Spodak business 1 Next year will ning of a new Union College Str This publication Freshman Record man Handbook ~ extra pertinent the student. • Tc Ohio Unive C. T. Huck tric's histor realized, to' gram was e After gn work on th systems. n phone Labc help in the capabilities Tom worke computer c tern. Tom· W.E.'s Colu ing on the memory p Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 __ II .N EQUA\ OPPOI ~nncipal man C::ngineerins R

I I af- of be- 1 self- wel- n the n :for of al ac- view. that ' o no·t s ... about their o:f he fact, that v to tr·y and for that accept un- let or possi- all but all that \ ow are to be de- mono- other ·I hope life, as place our • new, ucation career of years. future we for fast- physical more Western your for an team U.S. York City It) Friday, April ~3, 1965 Honor3 Cited At Dinner Harold Atkins Larrabee, Ft·o- fessor Eme1•itus of Philoso-phy, spoke on \The Scholar and Space Age\ at a Sen.io:t· Honors Dinner, April 20, in Hale House. The din- ner, w·hich was sponsored by the Delphic Society and the Student Tax Committee, was in recc>gni- twn of the forty seniors who have participated in the honors pro-~ gram at Union College. Effects on Scholars LmTabee dealt with the effects 1 of the computer on the role of I the scholar. He illustrated the impact of ~ucll automation by- ;x- plaining hmv computers can ellm- mate excess reference work in li- ln·aries by immediately produ.cing infor1nation on the desired sub- ject. Although, he concluded, cer- tain parts of the scholar's jol> are erased by computers, the mind- simulating machines can neYer wplace true hurnan judgment. Larry McCray, President of the Delphic Society, opened the eve- Hing's activities. Dean Lock1vood, the next speak.er, praised the ,;eniors and noted the success ~f the honors p1·ogram. Dr. ~anabee then addressed the audience of hono1· stude11ts and ten profes- sors. W ashingtonTalk Set For June The Washington Seminar is a 1oluntary 11on-credit educational program of Union College and will be held this year June S-16 in Washington, D. C. Ten. stu- dents with a demonstrated mter- Pst in public affairs will be se- lected to pa1ticipate in the :pro- gram. They will be accompan1ed bv Professor Joseph Board, chainnan of the Union Col1ege Department of. Fol!t~cal Science. Participants \Vlll vlSlt a number of government ag~ncies. and c~n­ duct a series of mterVIews With public figures. The program is likely to include visits, for ex- ample, to the House and Senate, tile Supreme Court, the F.C.C., The New Repulllic, Library- of Congress, tile \White House, A.FL- CIO, A.M.A., Department of State and a fOl'eign Embassy. Students -will also have the op- portunity to talk with persons at both Natitonal party headquar- ters, and witl1 several prominent ~·<>nators and R-epresentatives. All students interested in :f1lr- tber details should contact Pro- fessot• Board, Bailey Hall 204, before May 3. 2 4 5 6 17 0 0 0 0 1 7 Baseball • • • The box score for Tuesday's game: H.P,I, (2-2) All H H RBI E Derrick 2B 4 1 1 0 0 Renna ss 4 1 2 1 1 Mar•shall LF 4 0 2 0 0 Llshch'nsk' j RF 4 0 0 0 1 Allen 3P. 3 0 0 0 2 d-Grabuwslci p 0 0 0 0 0 f·Curry PH 1 0 0 0 0 Vlilcox p 2 0 0 0 0 a-Cable [> 0 0 0 0 0 b-Denn!s c ~ 0 1 0 0 1\[oorman CF 4 0 1 0 0 Meyerchak c .. 0 0 0 1 c-Snow 3B 1 0 0 0 1 Spillane IB 3 0 0 0 0 Totals 34 2 7 1 6 l\nlon q.oJ AB R H RBI E Brown HS 5 3 2 0 0 Fike 2B 4 0 l 2 0 Olson CP 3 0 0 0 0 D' Alliard I' 0 0 0 0 0 e-D' All lard p 0 0 0 0 0 Marshall lB 5 1 2 3 0 Crookes P-1B 4 1 0 0 0 1\!e !Jonald 3B 2 1 0 0 0 Toth LF 4 1 1 2 l McAdams RF 4 1 1 2 0 Kuhl c 2 2 0 0 0 Totals 33 10 7 9 1 a. bottom of 5th. b. PH in 7th, then caught c. PH in 7th, then at 3B d, replaced Cable, bottom of 7th e. D' Al- liard replaced OIOson, top of 9th f. PH for Grabowski in 9th. R.P.I. l:nion Pitcher• 1 2 8 4 6 6 7 8 9 000002000 0 0 2 0 7 0 0 1 X 11' HR ERBB SO THE SHIRELLES 'Tennis • • • (LP, 0-ll 4 2-3 6 9 2 4 3 Wilcox Cable Grabowski 1 1-3 0 0 0 2 3 2 11003 (Continued from P.age 1) circuit. As his fame spread, his audience inereased in size, finally becoming intemational in scope. The Dave Brubeck Quartet has toured throughout Europe and Japan, in addition to many trips across the United States. One re- sult of the EUl·opean tour was the recording (}f the album \In 'Europe\ shortly after the trip. Regular appearances at the Ne\~ort Jazz Festivals and concerts at Carnegie Hall before full houses are just two examples of his p(}pularity. Quartet Awarded As a tribute to the quality of the gt•oup, Paul Desmond and Joe Morello as individual jazz instrumentalists, were rated first in a recent :•nowl}beat\ poll. The. Quartet has received many other honors mcludmg Number One Jazz group by Playboy magazine and (Continued from Page 8) ford was downed by Terry Kahan, 7-5, 6-1. Rutherford led at one point 5-2 in the first set. Crookes (WP, 3-0) D'Alllard PB Meyerchak (3) HP Olson 8 52106 1 20001 Going into the doubles match, The National .Science Founda- Syracuse had already won the tion has awarded Union College 11atch; however, Union gave the a $12,890 grant for the support Orangemen a run for their of an in-service institute for sec- noney. In the first doubles, Un- ondary science and mathematics terberg and Apter. wet•e soundly teachers during the 1965-66 trounced by Barne and Rubell school year 6-1, 6-1. Walker and Komisajev- · 1 a citation by Columbia Records in their jazz poll. In addition, the Quart~t -was recently chosen the number one instl'Umental group accordmg tu a poll of some 93 colleges which appeared in \Billboai·d , -Music on Campus.\ · Derby Planned sky, a hard playing doubles team I Under terms of the grant, the were defeated by Kapal and college will offer instruction in Kassman 8-6, 6-3. The last match! geol~gy, biology, and mathe- closed with Danchuk and Farn- 1 mat1cs to 50 secondary school ham ·Of Union .b:ing defeated hy I t<>arh~rs at ~igh schools within a Kahan and Sp1mcelli. 50 m1le radius of Schenectady. This weekend the netmen face Each recipient of a grant will GARY (U.S.) BOXDS Rounding out the entertainment for the evening will be Little Richard whose hits include \Tutti Frutti,\ \Rip It Up, 01 and \Lu- d11e.\ He recently petformed with Soupy Sales at the Paramount Theater in New York and in spite of the fact that it was Good Friday, which is supposed to be the worst box office day of the year, lines started forming at 1:00 A.M. the night before the show. He has also made appear- ances recently on many evening television shows, following his extremely successful European tour this winter. The Friday rock and roll con- cert will be an informal affair open to the general public for $2.50 per person. However, spec- ial discount weekend tickets are available only to Union students. At the set price, two tickets for each concert of Spring Weekend would cost a total of $12.00 if bought separately but a weekend ticket, which covers both concerts for a couple, will be sold for $7.50. These may be purchased only by Union students, one weekend ticket to a person, in dormitories Ol' fraternities up un- til Wednesday, April 28. Single tickets may only be purchased at the Student Activities Office and no weekend tickets will be avail- able after April ~8. After the concerts on both Fri- day and Saturday nights, many fraternities have nlanned to hold parties. In line with this, 8eife1·t, President of the Junior Class, sincerely urges \all fraternities to have a guard for each night of the weekend.\ I . On Saturday morning, in place oi classes, the AIUlUal Union College Grand Prix will be held, beginning at 11:00 A.M. in front of Schaffer Library. Th~:> course ill' this soap box derby will run along the roa~ in front of the library, up the road past the Delta Upsilon fratem1ty house, along the drive between the Alumni Gymnasium and 1.t 2:30 and Saturday at ~ :30, receive free tuition and book and Vermo~t and Harper, on Friday travel allowances. respectively. Last year, Vermont tromped the Gamet 8-1, and Har- Dr. Theodore D. Lockwood, per barely edged the Gamet 5-4. 1 provost. and dean of the faculty That was the first match Union at Umon, has announced that lost to Harpur since the series 1 Dr. John Girdner. associate pro- began in 1955. J fessor of psychology, will admin- ister the program. the football field, down past the biology building and Kappa Alpha and back to the steps of the library. Each car will actually have tw~ teams of two members each: two girls who will be driving and two boys who will do the pushing. The first team, consisting of a driver .and a pusher, will ·start the race at the library steps and continue to the Alumni Gymnasium at which point the second pair will take C over and finish the race. WRUC, who is sponsoring the derby will ( award a trophy to the winning team. Entries should be filed ;t the Student Activities Office. RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring Any group on campus-fraternity, dormitory, or other,•;ise- mar enter a car in the race at a cost of $2.50 fo1· the entry fee. The yehicle must have four wheels, be steered )ly th~Pel·son who is driv- mg, and be homemade. There are \'ery few other rules for this unique event. DUl·ing the afternoon, following the races, the Union College Department of Athletics has scheduled a variety of athletic contests. At 2:00P.M., the varsity lacrosse team will match sticks with Clark- ·son while, at the same time, Freshmen and varsity l'unners race against Middlebury. While these events are taking place, the Frosb netmen will face Bard College iu a tennis match at 2:00 P.M. All those desiring weekend tickets should plan to obtain them as soon as possible. Now Open! NEW DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY For The Best Rest East or West ~Av~fooce 765 STATE STREET Dial Phones - In Room - Coffee HEATED SWIMMING POOL TELEVISION FOR RESERVATIONS CALL: CODE 51 8 393-6692 - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week STORAGE AVAILABLE WINTER GARMENTS STORED FOR FULL SEASON ONLY $2.95 + Reg Cleaning Price Fully Insured Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank

direc- leave of the been Sep- asso- Bow- Union post public rimary of rna- sse airman drive was a I :::.\ Friday, April 23, 1965 Willison ... (Continued from Page 4) Yet these ministers do not af- fect the very large number of Negroes who a·re either poor and dispirited or educate<! ~d disaf- . fected. These two groups are be- .. ginning to work with one another m the 1·ent strikes and other self- help slum neighboo·hood action programs that individuars, wel- fare organizations, and even the New York City Mobilization for Youth (MFY) are organizing. Should these get off the ground, they m&y become the source of political leverage for political ac- tivists. There is one final point of view. 1 . was . 1 Standing around Idol editor, Rodham Tullos, are left to right: Franlt James Baldwin has said that ' \whatever white people do not know about Negroes reveals • • . what they do not know about themselves.\ American Negroes should be proud of their own dignity in adversity and of their joy in life itself, at which he thinks whites have failed. In fact, Mauro a.nd l\like K~ufman, Ha~dboolc Co-editors elect; and Fran~ 1 Khedourt, Garnet edttor elect. Mike Spodak, next year's Garnet bust- and ~ 1 ness manager was absent when the picture was taken. he tell:s American Negroes that ·· \there is no reason for you to try l 1) and seniors Mor- The ced on Satur- annual past, worked in the work and an ef- Park as damage UP sur- on ied to ecured your I I I I Board Choses Editors ·to become like white pe1>ple and the1·e is no basis whatever fQr their impertinent assumption that they must accept you.\ Instead, Negroes must help whites acce<pt themselves and their own un- known drive's and clark history. The Publication Board recently announced the 1965-66 editors of the Idol, Gamet, and the Union College Student Handbook. Rod- ham Tulloss will again be in charge of the Idol while Frank Mauro and Mike Kaufman will co-edit the Union College Student Handbook. Frank Khedouri will be editor of the Garnet and Mike Spodak business manager. Rotlham Tulloss stated that the Idol will remain the same in for- mat and size. A future issue will be devoted to music. Tulloss em- phasized the need for more stu- dent participation. So the problem is not to let or drive as many Negroes as possi- ble to become exactly like all other ordinary Americans, but all other Americans to recognize that unreconstructed Negroes now are part of the American character. Baldwin says we must all learn to live with that and to distribute our rights and rewards accord- ingly, or else we all will be de- stroying something in ourselves. American culture is not mono- lithic and it is changing in o·ther respects; perhaps Baldwin's hope will come to pass in this life, as W ords:worth concluded, \the place where. in the end, we find our happines•s, or nort at all!\ Clemens. • .. Next year will see the begin- ning of a new publication, the Union College Student Handbilok. This publication will replace the Freshman Record and the Fresh- man Handbook and will provide extra pertinent informaion for the student. (Continued from Page 1) workers will attempt to unify the Negro communities with which they will work. They will trv to draw out the local Negro leadership that can work with the white leaders or organize action, such as marches, when necessary. • • Tom Huck sought scientific excitement He's finding it at Western Electric Ohio University conferred a B.S.E.E. degree on C. T. Huck in 1956. Tom knew of Western Elec- tric's history of manufacturing development. He realized, too, that our personnel development pro- gram was expanding to meet tomorrow's demands. After graduation, Tom immediately began to work on the development of electronic switching systems. Then, in 1958, Tom went to the Bell Tele- phone Laboratories on a temporary assignment to help in the advancement of our national military capabilities. At their Whippany, New Jersey, labs, Tom worked with the W.E. development team on computer circuitry for the Nike Zeus guidance sys- tem. Tom then moved on to a new assignment at W.E.'s Columbus, Ohio, Works. There, Tom is work- ing on the development .of testing circuitry for the memory phase of electronic switching systems. This constant challenge of the totally new, combined with advanced training and education opportunities, make a Western Electric career enjoyable, stimulating and fruitful. Thousands of young men will realize this in the next few years. How about you? If responstbility and the challenge of the future appeal to you, and you have the qualifications we are looking for, talk with us. Opportunities for fast- moving careers exist now for electrical, mechani- cal and industrial engineers, and also for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. And be sure to arrange for an interv1ew when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. We.stern Electric MANUFACTURING AND suPPLY UNIT oF rHtz snL sYsrFM tj\ .H EQUA\ OPPORTUNITY EMP\OYER ~ ~nncipal manufacturing loc·ations in 13 cities 0 Operating centers >n many of these same cittes plus 36 others throughout the U.S. C::ngineering Research Center, Princeton. N.J. OTeletvae Care •• Skokie. Ill .. Little Rock, Ark. 0 General Headauarters. New York Cib J t' Friday, April 23, 1965 ~~~--~~~--~-------­ [ ''Wildtrack~~ The Subject' Art E.xpert Ca: ; i ~Of Poet Wain's Talk To Speak: ! . At Thursday's Convocation<® ?n. A~ril ~7, Gordon Bailey The To •J ohn Wain, the noted British poet - J' ash bum will lecture on the ence o und author, read, and commented M . Contemporary Art of Japan\ Sunda tm, his long poem \Wildtrack.\ OrSe . tn Old Chapel at 11:30. the ( \W'ldt 1\ · • • • Washbu.rn is a 11 oted exper.t on Scotia. 1 . rae ( 1·s a somber sad J ·~ 41poem, filled with symbolis~ and (Continued from Page 1) • .apanese art, ha.ving recently Invi· the gloom of a vision of things t · · ~pent three year~ m Japan mak-, ence a It . . o cr1mmal sentencing and pa- ~n.g a st.udy of Its contemporary ulty 1 and. criticism,, of \the things that' . . es. · ai t. He IS a graduate of WitHams the m gone wrong. Is a discussion 1 ol · · t 1 A Real \Rebel\ College and the Fog~g Art Mu- such a ·~u~!. P.Wfld~r,ack~dis m:·k~la~~:~~ At the start of his political ?eum of Harvard University. He public~ of homogonized man,\ and a dis- care~r, Senator Morse was a Re- IS also a member of Phi Beta ties. ' russian of a \steam roUed\ 80 _ pubh~an but has since changed. ~appa and a Chevalier of the be moo \ ,.ciety. to athbTeral and finally, to aDem- h rlednch Lhegion of Honor. He . and Vi .. ,. J · h w · ecra · oday, he 1's known as one • 0 · s an onorary Master of F1'ne· I diseusE o n . am sees much evil in f h A t D the forces of indusbiaHzation ? t · e most \rebeHious\ senators . r s egree from Williams and jor pre for in his view of life it is th~ 111 Congress. honorary doctorates in fine al'ls I' industrial movement 'that has In 1960, Senator Morse served' f~o!ll A!legheny College and the Fits1 t'crushed man's individuality. The as a representative to the U.N. Vmverstty of Buffalo. 'discuss t•outine of the factory, or that of General. Assembly, and he has· Department Director ' curricu the farm, whether in Henry als~ .wntten several books. In Dr,. Washburn has directed the ion cor Ford's America or Joseph Stalin's a~~hti•;m, he has made many con- Albright. Art GaJ.Iery in Buffalo, w.iH be ·1·· tRuss.ja, has transformed human- trll:mhons to various law journals .. the Museum of Art at the Rhode gram · ity into an unthinkin\' u 11 d'fl'er- 1 Senator Mo 'II b Island School of Design, ami the 1 studen1 .,., . · · · rse WI · e able to Dep.artmen.t of Fine Arts at Ca·l'- at hn, rr entiated, mass of automatons. address t~e coHege because of n I J ~ The product of man's state of f~nds ~rev 1 ously used for the now . egte nsbtute in Pittsburgh. He Victc Qgreat material wealth is not in- d1scontmued \Symposium.\ It is IS currently director of the Asia dent ( · creased thought, or a renaissance hoped ~hat . he will be able to House Gallery in New York City is a gr in philosophy, but the Model T meet 1th t d t · He has published several vol': going , w ~ u en s m the after- umes of his works, the best t! 1 at t Ford, and millions of corpses noo!l and discuss on an informal k \The common man can move: .basts the p 1 ·oblems with which nown are \Isms in Art Since wiU off ~The Model T is. here and history we are cur·rently involved. t~ 00 ~.and \American Classics of. for cia ·is dead.\ Men have been made e meteenth Century.\ . 1 present lik~ the milk they drink: shaken, s • whipped, and pressured they are .~'hr--ng TXTeekend Ent·Art·/ f of uniform consistancy: '...1:' .., J' J' • -.:... lA \Self-ness\ Remains ''Wildtrack\ is not just a pic- ture of the world; it is also an evaluation of the self-ness re- !naining in man, and its power. fhrough the use of symbolism and. varied poetic techniques; ~ Wam shows man as still striving for freedom. He talks of man's \instinctual world,\ and his dreams, which reveal themselves in revolts against oppression and the reason's battle against ~bliv­ ion. The poet sees many of to- day's social phenomena as at- tempts to reassert human indi- ,·iduality, and hopes, that free- tlom, in~ividua.lity, and thought can regam an Important place in life. Honors Cited At Dinner Harold Atkins Larrabee, Pro- fessor Emeritus of Philosophy, spoke on \The Scholar and Space Age:• at 3: Senior Honors Dinner, April 20, 111 Hale House. The din- ner, which was sponsored by the Delphic Society and the Student Tax Committee, was in recogni- tion of the forty seniors who have participated in the honors pro- gram at Union College. Effects on Scholars Larrabee dealt with the effects' of the computer on the role of j the scholar. He illustrated the impact of such automation by ex- plaining how computet'S can elim- mate excess reference work in li- ln·aries by immediately producing information on the desired sub- ject. Although, he concluded, cer- tain parts 1>f the scholar's job are erased by eomputers, the mind- simulating machines can never replace true human judgment. Larry McCray, President of the Delphic Society, opened the eve- uing's activities. Dean Lockwood, the next speaker, praised the seniors and noted the success of the honors program. Dr. Larrabee then aduressed the audience of honor students and ten profes- sors. Washington Talk Set For June The Washington Seminar is a voluntary non-ct'edit educational program of Union College and will be held this year June 8-16 in Washington, D. C. Ten stu- dents with a demonstrated inter- est in public affairs will be se- lected to participate in the pro- gram. They will be accompanied hy Professor Joseph Board, Chairman of the Union College of Political Science. will visit a number agencies and con- series of interviews with figures. The program is to include vis·its, for ex- to the House and Senate, Court, the F.C.C., The ew Republic, Library of Congress, the White House, AFL- C[O, A.M.A., Department of State and a foreign Embassy. Students will also have the op- P()rtunity to talk with persons at both Natitonal party headquar- ters, and with several prominent ~enators and Representatives. (Continued from Page 1) Also featured in the concm't will be Garry U.S. Bonds whose . best known song, \Quarter to Three,\ came out in the summer of ~961. Mr. Bonds began his smgmg as a choir hoy at the age of nine. He then went on to work regularly in nightclubs of Nor- folk, Virginia; but it was not until he picked \New Orleans\ for his fir~t reco~ding. that he finally gamed natwnw1de popularity. His name may seen a little unusual Eut, as. Dick Clark explains it: There IS something behind that name after all-he talks to groups everywhere on the im- portance of investing in our country's future by buying- you've guessed it-U.S. Bonds the savings kind!\ Among u.s: Bonds other hits are \Twist Sen- bra,\ \Minnie the Moocher,\ and \That's All Right.\ THE SHIRELLE . . . . (Continue~ from Pag cucwt,. A~ hrs fame spread, hrs audience becommg mternational in scQope. Th~ Dav~ ~rubeck Quartet has tourE Japan, m addrtwn to many trips across tl sult of the European tour was the recc Europe\ sf1ortly after the trip. Regular a 1 ~azz Festivals and concerts a:t Carnegie E JUSt two examples of his popularity. . Qua1·tet Awardee . As a trt~mt.e .to the. quality of the gr 01 Mo1 ello as mdiVIdual Jazz instrumentalis recen~ :•Dow~beat\ poll. The Quartet l hon!Jts.mcludmg Number One jazz group Q a c1tatwn by Columbia Records in theh· j urut~t was recently chosen the numbe 1 accord!ng to a poll of some 93 colleges wh .. -Mus1c on Campus.\ Derby Planned GARY (U. 8.) Bmms On Saturday morning in place of c College Gr~nd Prix will be'held, beginning Schaffer Library. The course in this soap the roa? in front of the library, up thero fraternity house, along the drive between tl the football field, down past the biology b Rounding out the entertainment and back to the steps of the library. Each for the evening will be Little teams of t~o members each: two girls wh Richard whose hits include \Tutti boys who Will do. the pushing. The first te Frutti,\ \Rip It Up,\ and \Lu- .and a pusher,, Will stat:t the race at the 1 cille.\ He recently performed with to the Alum!ll Gymnasmm at which point Soupy Sales at the Paramount over and fimsh the race. WRUC who is · Theater in New York and in spite award a trophy to the winning t~am Ent of the fact that it was Good Student Activities Office. . Friday, which is supposed to be Any group on campus-fraternity c th t b fft d rna¥ enter a car in the race at a cost of '$2 . e wars ox o ce ay of the . yehlcle ~ust have four wheels, be steered yem·, lines started forming at Ill&\ and be homemade. There are ve 1 ..,r 1:00 A.M. the night before the uruque event. ., show. He has also made appear- During the afternoon, following the ances recently on many evening Department of Athletics has scheduled a v. teJevision shows, following his At 2:00. P.M., the varsity lacrosse team \Yil extremely successful European son. wh1le,, at the same time, Freshmen tour this winter. agamst Iv.J;1ddlebury. While these events a 1 The Friday rock and roll con- netmen w1ll face ~~rd College in a tennis cert will be an informal affair All those ~esmng weekend tickets sh open to the general public for as soon as possrble. $2.5() per person. However, spec- ~~-~~,_--.,~f>:ll~,_~_,~lfi;;JI~ ial discount weekend tickets are available only to Union students. At the set price, two tickets for each concert of Spring Weekend would cost a total of $12.00 if bou[ht separately but a weekend ticket, which covers both concerts for a couple, will be sold fm $7.51). These may be purchased only by Union students, one week~nd. ticket to a person, in dprnutor1es or fraternities up un- t!l Wednesday, April 28. Single tickets may only be purchased at the Student Activities Office and no w·eekend tickets will be avail- able after April -28. Now Op NEW DOWNTOWN SC For The Best Rest East or West 765 STA1 Dial Phones - 1 HEATED SWi TELE' FOR RESERVATIONS CALL: coc • All students interested in fur- ther details should contact Pro- fessor Board, Bailey Hall 204, before May 3. After the concerts on both Fri- day and Saturday nights, many fraternities have planned to hold parties. In line with this Seifert President of the Junidr Class' since1•ely urges \all fraternitie~ to have a guard for each night of the weekend.\

HIPPOLYTUS Page2 Concordy Sports RIGHTS PAGE3 I Glo'Vetnen Maul R PI, Westby Scores 7 as Up Record to 4-0; Stickmen Romp TraclunenFall To Trinity;~ Host RochesterTotnorrow . . By Eric Singer Following their . devastating tt'i- inning, and that \Yas it fot• the . umpl1 over Pratt last Saturday, · day. the Dutchmen baseballers played · Statistics host to arch-rival R.P.I. on Tues- With a record of 4-0, Union day. The Garnet success over ha-s tiaturatly compiled an im- the Engineer 'vas res<mnding, , pressive coHection of team and thoroughly thrashing the slide- indiYidual statistics. Leading the rule men, 10-2. This victory list are Union's runs scored, 37, brought Union's · recol'd 1o 4·0 for compared with 9 for Garnet op- the young season. position, se\ · en stden bases for · Saturday's game against Pratt \Cnion compared with one fo1· op- · was entirely lop~ded, as the ponents, . and twenty-six Dutch- · d men walks against only one that score, 13-1:>, in icates. Eight of opposing· teams have been a:l>le to those runs were · earned, while Pratt neYer seriously threatened. manage off Union pitching. That Rick Crookes, who looks excep- one came in the first game this tionally strong this season, went year, against Kings Point, and the distance fot · Union, giving up was given up by Rick Crookes. · cnly two hits, while picking up In addition, the Garnet has a eleven strikeouts and his second fielding percentage of .937' com- win. The game was not quite as . p a red to a poor .727 for Union farcical as the scored would in- oppesition. Leading all Union batters is dicate, for the Dutchmen scored Uill Toth, with an impressive .400 six of their runs in the eighth 1 inning. What was surprising , average. Toth has hit safe y four however, was that the Pratt t;mes in ten trips to the plate. starting pitcher, Cumberland, Following him are Art Mat·shall pitched the entire game. This was at .~13, Greg Olson at .286. and a little unusual, since the Dutch- Gary Brown at .277. Brown's av- men got to him early in the game. erage is especially good news, for Gary opened the season in a Leading the attaclr for the Gar- siump, going zero foi· nine in the net were Greg Olson, who went two for three, Art Marshall and Gary Brown, each getting two hits in four times to the plate. R.P.I. Bombed Tue<uiay's R.P.I. game was of a different nature than the Pratt contest. Although the score was just as overwhelming as Satur· day's, only two of Union's runs were earned this time. Still, the Dutchmen looked st1·ong, especi- aLy Pitcher Rick Crookes, who . lengthened his string of consecu- tive innings pitched to 17. Crookes, who was replaced by Frank D'Alliard in the ninth, pick· ed up his third \\'in this year, while striking out six. D'Alliard did his job well, too, finishing off the Engineers in the ninth with rela- tively little trouble. Again im- pressive yere Brown and Marl shall, each with two hits. Mar- shall probably hit tl1e most im- Jiressive ball all afternoon, a line shot triple that carried well over the head of the left fielder onto the left field bank. Bob McAdams closely rivalied Marshall for this honor, however, with a booming fly to deep left-center, that also carried onto the outfield bank and was good for a triple. The Garnet opened the scoring in the bottom of the third when they got to Wilcox, the starting and losing pitcher for the En- gineers, for two runs. Then in the fifth, the Dutchmen scored 11even runs. Randy Kuhl opened the inning with a walk, and four base hits coupled with a few walks and R.P.I. errors were good for six runs. This finished Wilcox and brought in Bill Cahle who finally put out the fire, but not before a passed ball hy Mey- erchak, the catcher, had allowed a seventh run to cross the plate. R.P.I. came back with two runs, one of them earned, in the top of the sixth. A double and two singles, along with a Dutch · man error on one of the singles, accounted for these tallies. Union came hack with one more tun in their half of the eighth For Better Community Service WALKERS PHARMACY, INC. 509-511 STATE ST. Phone FR 4-7709 WALKERS PHARMACY NISKAYUNA BRANCH, INC. Balltown at Van Antwerp Phone FR 4·7730 Bill Toth slides under expected tag, while Pratt pitcher, Cumber- land covers home. first two games. Since then, Brown has gotten . five hits in nine chances, a .456 clip. Bruce Fike, the invaluable Gar- net second-sacker, leads the squad in both stolen bases and walks. Fike h · as stolen three t ; mes, and has \\raited enemy pitchers out for five walks. Art Marshall has knocked in six runs 11nd leads the team in this depart- ment, while Capta i n Gary :Brown has scored the most number of runs, a total of seven. But the most impressive sta- tistics belong to the team's two top pitchers, BrO\vn and Crookes. Ct·ookes, who has started three games, has completed two of them and won all three. He has a shutout to his credit, and in twenty-six innings Crookes has given up six eal'ned runs, one haRe-on-balls, and . he has struck (Continued on Page 7) ••••• , •••••••• , ••••• '¥, STUDENT TRAVEL It is too late now to book for Europe. But don't miss next Christmas Vocotion. CONSULT US FOR All YOUR TRAVEL NEEDS. Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 A~ents For All Leading Airlmes • Steam Ship - Rail- roads and Car Rental Cos • ......... ,, .. ······· ... ~~n~ca Laund~onnat 1585 VanVranken Ave. 12 blocks from Nott St.) SELF SERVICE l5c WASH - 10c DRY PROFESSIONAL SERVICES LAUNDRY - SHIRTS - CHINO'S DRY CLEANING ~~one Call Will Do It All'* Garnet Defense~en Tom Morgan (27) and Bob DeMichele (center, 33) are caught ~n onslaught of Wesleyan attackmen and middies. Front L. toR. Bill Lesmy (30), Chance (43), John Burt (32), Peter Olney (21). By Gary VanGraafeiland ~ ' ---------------------- The Union College tl ' ackmen . dropped their first two outdoor · meets · Of the season, 95-50 to , Hamilton and '70-69 to Trinity. Last Satm•day the Dutchmen trave'ed to Clinton, N.Y., and wel,'e trounced in a snowstorm by • the Continentals, who took firsts . in every running event. On Wed- nesday the precipitation changed · t(l Schenectady rain showers, but the meet's outcome changed not at all as the Garnet lost a heart- breaker to Trinity. · . Against Hamilton, the varsity held its own in the veld events, ' but fell hy the wayside on the . track. ln the 100, the Dutchmen failed to score an:v points as Hamil ton swept the first three places. AI Panhoff took a second · in the 220, as did Joe Schoenfeld in the 440 and Neil Camman ir the 880, but each was sandwiche<- . between Hamilton men. DavE Ring placed third in the mile, as did Bii'l Hunt in the two mile but Hamilton picked up eight points to :Union's one in each he had done five days before, in the triple jump. • Trackmen Needed Coach Ketz was presf;led for pet-formers, and in the Trinity o meet added depth mjght possibly have altered the outcome in Union's favor. If any stl:tdent has any interest or ability in track, , he should by all means come · out for the team. · Next outing for the team is tomorrow, here, against Roch- ester. The freshmen will also t compete. And then, next Wed- nesday, both varsity and fresh- men will travel to Vermont for the fourth dual meet of the 1 spring season. Trinity . 100:.....1~ Panhoff(U). 2, S11yder t (T). 3, Bradburv (T). :lU). ' 220-1, Panhoff (U). 2, Brad- bury (T). 3, Prillman (T). :24.6. · 440-1, Brewer (T). 2, Schoen- Stickers Stomp St. Lawrence By Howard A. Goldberg Tomorl'Ow the Dutchmen take tu the road for the first time for their fi1·st away game of this young lacrosse season. The Union stickers go west on the thru-way to meet the Hamilton Continen- als, who have been having the same problem the Garnet has had in tr:ying to get outdoors for game competition. Last season the Continentals were 1-7 and event. The Continentals swept an extra man and could only the high hurdles and would have muster one goal. Even against a done the same in the intermediatt bette1· team which dreserves to hhUI·dles · had it not been for win, Garnet had plenty of oppor- Steve Roehm's third place imish. tunities to stay close especially The home forces also captured in the first quarter when Wes- both relays, the 440 in :44.0 and leyan chaulked up 6 minutes of the mile by forfeit. . feldt (U). 3, Bradbury (T). :51.7. • 880-1, Campman (U). 2, Evarts (T). 3, Bornemann (T). !:28.8. 2 mil~-1, Ring (U). 2, Borne- \ mann (T). 3, Hunt (U). 10:29.7. HH-1, Talbot (T).. 2, Roehm (U). 3, Darmiento (U). :16.9. Int. HM.-1, Bremer (T) . 2, f B1·ewer (T) 3, Morris (U). 1:01.3. penaly time. On the other side of the slate, Union committed too Morris Triumphs many penalies, fifteen in all and In the field, the Dutchmen Mile relay-Union 3:33.7. Pole vault-1, Doerge (T). 2, Newbegin (U). 3, McGinnis (T). , 12'; (Continued on Page 7) more than held their own. Bob · N ewbegin tied for second in the improvement is inevitable. The Garnet opened their season last Saturday on the wrong end of a 14-5 score at the hands of Netmen Nailed; Oppose Harpur Here Tomorrow a strong Wesleyan team. After By Mark Unterberg opening against, probably their Union College's varsity tennis strongest opponent of the year, team ti·aveled to Syracuse Tues- the Garnet took on their weakest day, and received its first set ;foe Wednesday and walloped St. back of the young season at the Lawrence 17-1. hands of the Orangemen. 8-1. Having been stopped by Wes- The netmen's record now stands leyan. Randy Westby and John at 1-1. Hann came to life against the The score, however, was not Larries and pumped in seven and indicative of the closeness of the :four goals respectively. In the match, for the Beaudrymen were space of nine minutes in the not at any time outclassed by :fourth quarter, Westby had five their opponents. Syracuse, with a ~traight goals. The other member southern tour and five matches of the triumverate, Jeff \The olready under their belt, had the Bear\ Schultheiss, . who looked upper hand both in experience good against Wesleyan, with 2 ond in familarity with clay goals, chipped in with 3 goals and courts. 3 assists . Two of the \Bear's\ At first singles, Rick Apter, goals were of spectacular nature. playing a hard hitting game, was On one he came around the goal clefeated by Syracuse's Steve and backhandled the ball and on Rubell, 6 - 2, 6-3. Second singles another he shot over his head was also lost to Syracuse as Mark and caught the goalies completely Unterberg was edged out by unaware. Dave Bal'l'ie 6-3, 6-4, while Pete Marked improvement was seen Walker lost to Tayal Kapil 6-2, in at least one respect, even 7-5. At fourth singles, Chris though the calibre of opponents Komisarjevsky saved Union from was so vastly different-Union's a shutout by defeating Fred ability to score on extra man sit- Kassman 7-5, 6-1. Levine lost uations. Against Wesleyan the to Comfort, and Aaron Ruther- ,Garnet had 16 opportunities with 1 (Continued on Page 7) Down to Louis', let us ~o. Let the la&er freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-891 7 c, ..... .- ........ ...- _,..-.._ __ ., __ ............... ..------- ............. - - -~---- ............ - - _ .... ...._ __ ., ________ ~- ....- ~~- --- THE NEW MODERN IMPERIAL 400 MOTEL HOMER AND MARY SAMPSON Your Co-owner Hosts MAKE YOUR RESERVATION 927-933 STATE STREET I SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK ( 518) 372;.470 1 pole vault, and Gary Morris and Joe Schoenfeld placed 1-2 in the high jump. Roehm, Phil Catapano and J e:tr Ratner effected a Union sweep in the broad jump. Paul Woodell and John Morrison fin- ished where they usually do-at the top-in the shot put, and Woodell and John Wilcox placed 2-3 in the discus. Wilcox also took ::econd place in the javelin. Cata- pano and Ratner finished second and third, 1·espectively, in the triple jump. HJ-1, Morris (U). 2, Bremer (T). 3, Campman (U). 20'3'12\· Shot-1, Morrison (U). 2, Woodell (U) . a, Kolewe (T). I 46'81J.i \. Discus-1, Frivken (T). 2, Woodell (U). 3, Gerber (T). 144'10% \. • Javelin-!, Pogue (T). 2. Wil- cox (U). 3, Spence (T). 169'9\. Triple J.-1, Fairfield (T). Q, Brewer (T). 2, Ratner (U). 39'. e Intramural Softball Against Trinity, lack of per- Games This Week: sonnel, as much as anything, must be blamed for the Garnet's FRIDAY one point loss. AI Panhoff won Phi Sigma Delta vs. Inds. the 100, and did a repeat per- Sigma Phi vs. Alpha Delta Phi. formance in the 220. Joe Schoen- Kappa Alpha vs. Psi Upsilon. felt took a second in the 440, TUESDAY and Neil Campman and Pete De:ta Phi vs. Phi Delta Theta. Smith finished 1-2. respectively, Alpha Delta Phi. vs. Delta Chi. in the 880. Dave Ring took first Theta Delta Chi vs. Sigma Chi. C place in the mile, and then over- . WEDNESDAY hauled Bornemann of Trinity in Kappa Alpha vs. Phi Sigma the closing yards of the two mile Kappa. to win the race by inches. Bill Psi Upsilon vs. Sigma Phi. c Hunt finished third. Steve Roehm Inds. vs. Beta Theta Pi. and Frank Darmiento took sec- THURSDAy ond and third in the high hurdles, Delta Chi vs. Sigma Chi. and Gary Morris finished third in Delta Phi vs. Delta Chi. 1 the inte1mediate hurdles, a new Phi Delta Theta vs. Alpha event for him. Union took the Delta Phi. mile relay. Bob Newbegin vaulted to second place in the pole vault; both he and Doerge · Of Trinity hit the height of twelve feet, GATESMEN but Bob had more misses. Morris Applications for membership won the high jump, and Roehm in the Gatesmen are available the bl'oad jump, both for the sec- in the Admissions or Student Ac· t and title in as many meets. tivities office. . . Completed forms Campman finished third in the will be due on Wednesday, April broad jump. Morrison took first, 28. Membership will be open to Woodell second in the shotput, I a iimited number of present ~ and Woodell repeated his second Sophomores and Juniors, · while place performance in the discus. 1 there is room for ten Freshmen. Wilcox finished second in the For information contact Jeff javelin. Ratner took a third, as i Ratner 372-9759. . Authentic 2 ply imported Shetland Wool Sweaters by lord Jeff in the classic crew neck NAVY DARK GREEN HEATHER TAN HEATHER BRICK HEATHER 15.9 5 DAVI!'S ~quire ~lfop 'Iii 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 ·~-- __ ,,_, __ ,_,_,__ ______ ,,,,,,_,_~



' Page Two THE SKIDMORE NEWS .April 29, 1965 SHOCK LETTERS TO THE EDITOR/ G d Ed. Note: W~ hpJJe that tQ· Being a conscientious member 00 . . day's jssue will pro:ve m.ore to . of our atudent bocj.y, I must prp- We are shocked and dismayed at the campus reac- · Miss Munslcy's taste. • test such a move! The rumour~ · f 1m · It t b To the Editor: ed chaRge of locale would sub- tion to the appomtment o Dr. Pa ountam. mus . e Congratulations on review· Bad ject the student body to '\.Uldue remembered that he had absolutely nothing to do with policies _ stop _ Glad see you &tresses and unfair pressures. the way the news was released. To condemn a man be- support American free enter- Our new location could not f h · · t · t prise preserved academic free. T tl Edit . fail to open the campus to in- ore e even arrives on campus 1s mos · unJUS . dom by brave stand _ ,stop _ o te or. . . vas ion by doltisH~ Union :males. Skidmore College will sink or swim with its new Will send details - stop. I feel that your art1cle on last This influx of students would it'- D. D. Eisenhower III week's lecture was t{)tally un\ re:vocably destroy the social at- president. As such he deserves the thorough suppmrt: Editm·'s note: An editorial on called for. Not only was it in\ mosphere of the school. While of the entire campus community until he proves him-: this subject appears, we sincere- accura~e, sofu~thing all regular .:mr work would possibly be lit- self unworthy of it. We have a feeling that that time ly .believe, on this page. . su,bS'Cnbers of .the news have tle affected, Ol\r weekends would will never come. was quite offensive. Do not the pected that the shift of demesne __ I become accustomed to, but it be grossly so. It is to be ex- B . d editors realize tha~ I,. and m;:my would place us far beyond Dart- a . I' others,. bring the News home to mouth's reach, and would place our family to l'ead? lilo not they us squarely in Union's. To a INSULT To the Editor: realize that this type sf :pernici- campus familiar with the re- After re[!.ding the Skidmore ous literature can ruin the moral. fined touch of Dartmouth's men, News fo 1 • nearly a full year I structure not only of the inno- ·. the grO'ss, un;couth groping of have come to the .conclusion that cent youth that might :accident- • Union's inmates would be utter- it will nevet• amount to much •ally come across, b11t surely ly repulsive. Where a girl could vVe would like to take this opportunity to con- of anything. This conclusion is cannot aid in the continued pur-' once expect a date to take hel'.to demn the members of the staff of the New Yot•k Herald based on the faets, just the ity of the present Skidmore girl. some swank Sa1·atoga restau- facts, for, after all, that is all I feel it is beyond the bounds rant, and then to the Cafe Lena Tribune. Although it is not normally deemed proper for that we should judge on. Right? that Wf?: can expect, al!d accept, for a talk and an enjoyable eve- one newspaper to criticize the policies of another in Right! O.K. Now, when we to have an article of this sort ning of music; she would n<>w P ublic, we feel that in this instance, THE SKIDMORE investigate the facts what do published. · be resigned to eating in some we find: n<>thing. Has the News • Disa.pprovingly yo-11rs, · swank Scheneetady . ref?~aur?J!t, NEWS must take a staunch stand in defense of this ever published anything of any M:iss WHhelnlina Yol.Ulgbrook , and to seeing a moving in s~me college. We hope that the editors of the Herald Tribune; worth or interest? No. Has it Professor of Mooern local art theatre - how trite! upon reading this note, will sit up and take. notice of ever published anything that Language·s . ·The Dartrnouth XK-E would be . might .get the papel' thrown off . replaced with the outmoded u:n~ theirthoughtless and insulting policies.·~ · ~- · campus 1 No. Has it ever d<me P.S. Cancel my subscri!)tion · !on Triumph. anything to make for the basis immediately. Yes, I protest the mQvel I We are referring to the article in that newspaper of a good protest or riot? No. · for one wish to date men similar which announced the coming of our new president, Thus, after an intelligent and w to myself. While Union's stu- Rather than treating th~ story in a proper and dignified impartial: investigation of the .. 0f5e dents are fine engineers, they facts, we come to the conclusio11 ·are lousy dressers and lousier manner, as fine journals incorruptably do, the Tribune that the Skidmore News is to- For the past few weeks the dates. masticated the item to a pulp by referring that all the tally worthless. rumour that our ne-w campus If we must move anywhere, Skidmore girls were interested in was the coming of Sinaerely, will be located near Union's has let us move to Dartmouth! Dr. Palmountain's two sons, who are yet in the flower _____ J_oa:_n_M_un:_:us_·_k.:..y.:.., _' 68 _ _· __ b_ee_n_WI_._d_e...::sp:....r_e_ad~·-i_n_e_ur __ d_;_o_rm_s. __ _._.S.:..t~a:.:::.cy:_K=im=ba::.:l:.:::.l_T:.o:.w::.:ns::::.:h::e=nd of childhood. This allusion is not only· wholly irresponsible, but a gross misrepresentation of the actual attitudes of the Skidmore woman. We at Skidmore do not become amused when our good name and high moral and ethical standards are made slight of. We would never think of approaching our president's sons, or any other boys, for that matter. We only hope that this lewd article has not so damaged the long standing reputation of the Skidmore woman that extra campus police will have to be contracted to rid the campus of any und~sirable male pests! CREDO THE MINORITY THREAT By Aileen Krockof 1 down in/Westchesten--you lmow Trowell, the guy who has WASPs of the world unite! I the one whose mother is chair~ sworn time and again to bury You have nothing to lose but man of the DAR. But then, us. your wings! That hideous without the slightest warning, worldwide conspiracy has once the conspiracy went to work. More importantly,. where again triumphed-on our very The army and maTines revolted else does Tl'{)Well reside ? liar- doorstep, and indeed promises throwing Reid out of office. And lem, Spanish and otherwise. to carry its banner to our very who do you thin\k they asked And what did they do there last h Th t' · to t summer? The pattern becomes· s ores. e tme ts now-we come o power? N{), no, they Clearer. and clearer. The inter- must stand up and fight. ·don't want Barry down there Under cover of darkness and either. It was J!lan :Borsch. national conspiracy is utilizing too late to make the .Sunday Yes, the infamous head of the Harlem as a training ground papers, the revolutionists struck International Yiddis]1 Conspir- for th.e revolutionaries who will again. This time their <target acy. take over the U.S. What's was the pleasant little island Harlem Honor more, there is a movement afoot of Hispaniola. You know, it This Juan Borsch had been today to allow Puerto Ricans to really is a. darling little place, living in nearby Puerto Rico. use Spanish. You know as well why when I was down there Quite obviously he had been as I do that they're doing this last Spring Vacation-but that's plotting to take ovel.\' the Repub- so that they can discuss their another story. At any rate, as lie with such nasty people as revolutionary plans right in The letter on this page from Mr. Eisenhower is an I was saying, onee again ·the fidel Castro since the Castro front of us without worrying admirable defense of the position which was stated in international conspiracy struck. radio immediately hailed tbe about our finding out about Everyone says that at last re:volt as progressive. (That's them. There <can be no ques- our answer by us to a letter on this page last week from democratic government might, what they always d{)-anything tion that this too is linked to Miss Mayberry. We are pla:rining a number of reviews retul'n to the Dominican Re- 1 that helps the conspiracy is the conspiracy since it's being of events of interest to the student body of Skidmore. public, but this is untrue. . \progressive.\) If we follow pushed by none other an Em- Up until this past weekend, I the trail closely, we can see ex- manuel. Cellar and Leonard ~t us, however, re-e~phasiz~ the poli~y which we out- the Dominican Republic had been actly how .it leads right to our Farbste1n among others. lined last week. If Skidmore lS to remam a great college ruled by President Donald Reid . own shores. Who spends most 1 The time is right! Cast off those who have made it so, the professors and associate (C,abral). By the way,, I think: of his time _in P11erto Rico? I your bonds and cast Israel. to professors and assistant professors and instructors, he s related to that mce man You guessed tt-Adam Clayton the Arabs and damn Bourgmba! must be free of any prejudices in their teaching. So to · preserve their academic freedom the Skidmore News cannot review events connected with the several depart- ments or the college itself. Furthermore to review local theater or to discuss off campus affairs would violate the principle of Alnerican free enterprise. These busi~ nesses (our policy forbids mention of them by name) would gain free advertising by such action. Clearly, as Mr. Eisenhower so eloquently says, this would be con- trary to the American way. Thus, in summary, we can say that although we plan reviews in the future we ex- clude from consideration events occuring off or on campus. Skidmore News CoNCORDIENSis is published during the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Representative: Natlcmal Advertising Service Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 425 Madison Ave., N.Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. PUbllca- tlon Office, Schenectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered In the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscription l5c a copy: $3 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Editor in Chief- Bal'l'y iiewman '67, Business Manager-Jeffrey Spector '66, Faculty Advisor -Henry Ferguson '50. ALVORD'S SHELL STATION 187 Nott Terrace BRAKES - TUNE UP MUFFLERS WHEEL BALANCE Dl 6-9847 RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring .......,. HO.ME STYLE IT AUAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SE.AFOODS - Catering To Small; & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On lap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ::biamon~ ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate .the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold. Fisher '50 II in W<J pre stt th( in§ im: tiv onJ ity sa~ me ca1 A11 pol thi Vic qu ha: We W:;l Re er- ye: licJ Vic old Nc At~ no· by 111E au taf wr raJ Co ba· tr~: the va: Ca in~ wi tat ist no- the ho th; filt .th: is of thj IDE im Vic str me pir er~ Na

. AprU 29, 1965 THE SKlDMOR.E Nl!JWS Page Three PO,INT •• • COUNTERPOINT Ref:lections Editor's Note: D fl t• By :&oberta Horn This weelc POINT . . . . e ec 1·ons M 1 . th U S ( d t din 't' COUNTERPOINT presents two By Marilyn Hoffman . any peop ~ 11!- ' e · · . ., goo ~ps an · g Cl 1zens articles contrastinv the various In so:rne cases, I nnght add parenthetically) around the positions an the A?nerican pos- VietNam is a problem. Why? Because the Ameli- world are behaving as though the war in Viet Nam is a ture in the war in Viet Nam. In can people are being fooled, absolutely misled. The Con- problem. It has even come to the point Where brazen addition to the two articles ad- gressional records, Wayne Morse, and Life Magazine students have forsaken their books in order to spend vacating one po~tion or the offer the evidence. America is wrong on VietNam. Not their parents' hard earned money on bus fare to Wash-. ather, there is a Background ar- because we are finally making our stand in the rice ington where they carry on in the mud and shamelessly ticle which puts the issue into paddy, not because we are spending millions in aid and imitate the Civil Rights mobs in the South. Sex is posi- historical perspectivP. more in weaponry, but because we are supporting the tively rampant.. That i$ the problem. In fact, that is the · wrong side! Since the French left Viet Nam in order only moral problem. There can be no question of moral~ Background to conquer Europe the_ Americans have supported the ity in the war on Viet N am; neither side is superior. To • . · wrong men. The easiest way to tell, the most obvious say the Co:nimunists are morally superior is tanta- · index, is the treatment of the students - the men of the mount to Communism. As Joseph Alsop recently indi- A ~han.tom, b.loody and. de- future. How did Diem and all the petty despots who cated in his subtle denunciations of what's left of the structtve, Is stalking the delicate supported him treat students. American Left, Ho Chi Minh ruthlessly murdered his· and lovely land of Vie~ Nam.. Why have the students rebelled? Surely not be- - These phant(}mS ha.ve their back- of - 1 - · dd' · h h h political adversaries accordin,g to reliable sources and ground in the long and lucid ~ause parenta restra.mt. In a 1bon, t ey ave. n?t - the Hearst press. Morality indeed! The leader of North history of this ancient land. mg to fear fro~ the V1~t Cong- they have w!hmi~ed Viet Nam is positively immoral So, we see, there is no The hi!story was long unknown access to supenor Arnencan weaponry. A case m :pomt question of morality in the VietNam War. to Western man until a brave should suffice. In point of fact, there is no problem at all. America courageous, and foresightful Since the French left, pro-American governments has borne the assault-of Communist propaganda too long. Englishman by the name of Sir have severely curtailed student activities. A look at the We are n.ot a paper tiger. We are a multi-billion dollar Ira G. K. McCurd-y, D.L., J.T., daily paper of the leading University in Saigon, Minh w;;tr machine that can make a sloe-eyed monkey of the K.G., e~tered. the land d~sg~sed Dong Chi, tells the story. The paper, the Con Cor Diem Red Chinese. Our American supersonic jet fighter-bomb- as a geJsha gn-l on vacation.· has featured repeated pleas for the liberation of social . er-interceptors could, with time, wipe out a Chinese 5 The ante-Me Curd~ hi~tory. of rules. Students, when not old enough to be treated as year plan. Now that the Red Chinese have openly, pub- ;he ~ountry beg~ With mvasicm adults will not .support or fight for their re~e. In fact, licly s_ upported the Vi-et-Cong, have taken sides in the NY d rty red Ohinamen ~rom the the slogans unfortunately became: \No cmtus, no con- orth-country. These mvaders t\ · d \If ' ld h t fi ht t ld \ VietNam Civil War, have in fact supported their own were quickly repelled by the ques an _YOU reo enoug o ~ · , your. oo ? . old enemies - the murdering Ho Chi Minh and his brave aM independent people of Students at VIet Cong controlled Bru Lee Ha1 Umver- North Vietnamese-- who in turn support the Vietcong, this l9vely land. They then. ap- sity are not restricted in any way, students in Ameri- Am.erica is forced to retaliate. plied for aid to a large and can supported schools must conform to Puritanical reg- If the Red Chinese want to insult us publicly, to de- generous ally. (There are some ulations and live in concrete cell blocks, like the hated 'l'ta kl' . ungererous individuals who say Rich Mon Hau College, where the buildings are made nounce us as mll ry wea mgs, to comnut aggression that the large and generous al;IY of cinder blocks, to protect students against a sneak at- by developing an · H-bomb, we can reply with the latest really wants to take control It- tack from the guerillas. In addition the nearest univer- methods of war in Viet Nam. Every bridge, train, ferry, self, but we all lm<~w that that 't f h' ' · automotive vehicle and forest in North Viet Nam will is nothing but malicious trou- s~ Y - 01 : women, w 1Ch ha;s recently relocated 1t~lf out- taste the sting of American rocketry. _ ble-malrin.g.) .s1de saigon ot;t an Amenc3:n .general's estate, IS more The Americans who are giving Up their lives in .Asia, Mter becoming a one-man than fifteen miles away. ThiS lS a long walk. who fly J'ets over-laden with bombs into VietCong radar military dictatorship in 70 AD., •. While sex is not the ostensible p~oblem in VietNam, things continued in their normal It IS, as Freud would say, an underlymg one. Therefore, _range and are overtaken and destroyed by inferior Viet and inert way until the Coming certainly, when the Viet Cong is on the side of sex, it Cong aircraft, those Americans are fighting an historic of the West in 1812 in the per- must succeed. Therefore, the U. S. should reconsider battle. They will be remembered, for America, in the son, ~known at the t!me to the its awkward position in Viet Nam - instead of ordering tradition of the Open Door Policy, the Monroe Do.ctrine, not~qu1et-so-happ-y V1etpamese, students to stand up and fight, the orothodox Americans the Eisenhower Doctrine, the Goldberg Doctrine, and its of McCurdy. Under his tut~- ought to permit them to lie down and free themselves variations, the Spanish-American War, the Panama lage, .after he had come out m f th 1 t t · · · · Canal Crises, the missile crisis in Cuba, America is show- his real self, the country de- rom e a en a~gressmn that ultrmately redirects It- cided to become a protectorate self towards Amerma. ing her teeth. South Viet Nam will pay, North Viet Nam of France. In such a state it ~_,._,._,_.._,_,._,,_..,.,.~~-..._....,._..,._~~_,-~ will pay, Red China will pay for their aggression. To remained until the Japanese in- tamper with American National security, the Commun- vaders, reminding them of their ist World must learn, is to play with fire. And Water can- first l~ok at McCurdy, were not put out phosphorous incendiary bombs; they supply _warmly recei'Ved. When it was their own oxygen. . · • discovered that the reid Japan- HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET • It has been said, probably by students on the White- ese were not like McCurd'Y, the people become perturbed and house lavvn, that the Viet Nam war is a Civil war, and he1ped throw them out of the that our indiscriminate destruction of villages of in- lovely land. Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL -- CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL e CHARTER BUS filtration is unwarranted. It has also been suggested After ·the war, the dirty red . that the bombing of schools and the dj:ath of children . intriguers began causing the is an unnecessary operation. The fact is that over 80% trouble which they still are of VietNam is now Communist, or Communist sym.pa- causing for these happy and thizing. The other 20% are in the Vietnamese govern\' contented people who inhabit ment in Saigon. Therefore, any raid outside the per- · ~th~is~h~ap~p~y~a~nd~l~o~ve~ly~la~n.~d~. ;;:;;~~~~~~~~;E;;;~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ imeter of our Air Force bases is likely to be a raid on Viet-Cong. The children in Commie schools have carried struggling to free the Vietnamese people, to secure de- mocracy and happiness for the war torn nation. Stop- ping the children now helps prepare for the future; lib- erated North VietNam will not need a House Un-Viet- N am Activities Committee. Down to Louis', lee us &o, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment . Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE Titne Centel' Jt;wc;lt;rs YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME NI~~~~-A~~r!~~~l·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~ Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 ,-..--.-------------_____....~~--. STORAGE AVAilABLE WINTER GARMENTS $TO~ED FOR FULL SEASON ONLY $2.95 + Reg Cleaning Price Fully Insured Dam:brose Clea:ners 1511· VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Juat Around the Corner front Mohawk National Bank DRIVE - IN CHOW UP - SNACKS TO DINNERS - ·nAILY TO MIDNIGHT AT SCOTIA BRIDGE

Page Four . AIJril 29, .1965 THE· LITERARY CORNER ''Th P f N d ,, \Z thll Goes'' Wlth and consequentially at- e eace 0 ovgoro . eny lng . . . tempt at my dispbsale to dis- Ey Roda Tellus Ey Cunegonde Krankheit cover d'nth degree of compre- hension of a sma' spitanditty We asked Prof. McGill for a rendering of judgment Georgia S. Wake, the only liv.ing descendent of that onceatime 1 had penned on the new Sc.>Viet novel \The Peace of Novgorod.\ His James J. Wake, has come out with a roundabout and when a slip of a wisping boyo: one word reply was \Wow!\ whispy version (a satire upon satire, if you Will) oi YAO, SHUN, YU Kung McGill's long standing repu- Terry Southern and Mason Hoffenberg's little sugarplum TCHUN, TCH;IN, OUAN:G, tation as a critic must be taken .the shawls; the merchants that of a farcical tale, Candy, or the girl who would never OUEN, Gheng-iz Khan as standing behind this pro- buy the cloth are very n~ce say NO! The most interesting aspect of this new and And Mengko went into Bagdad, nouncement. We all lil<;e Prof. people; the. seam.stl·esses hve already acknowledged (by The Realist and Boy's Life) went into Kukano and died McGill. I mean, he's all right. I hard, but edible, hves and p~o- novel, Zenything Goes (subtitled \finnegans rump\) for by the wall at Ho-tcheou And so is this fine book. duce the lovely, exqmsJte Skidmore women (as it were) is that the tangled plot Ogatai reigned for nine years \Th P f Novgorod\ a shawls which make the t!tle and rev·-,ves about the adventures of p· ore lil Mary Finnegan, Kublai ascended Mt Hi.anglou e . eace 0 . ' • body of the story so mce. Ull The Kiang full ·of war junks new book. by .;\nton Sh!apptn~ We really liked the story. Es- a girl nurtured and graduated from a small debutante- That SUNG through se- Sm~sky.t 1 ~tt~:e.~~fet~~~ 0 i 1 ~ pecially we liked th~ p~ttern oriented .college in a little spa town in upper New York curity ..... . wor ou . h for praye1· shawls whrch IS re- State, America. Ah! Mesees youfad too m1,1ch ~rezhnev! himself, wr~.te t ·= produced on page 27 of the book, Beseiged, from back and already, so lettuce take another mtroductJOn to the Enghsh .edi h' h · · d 1' h. tf 1 We do 1' t' h bel' f th t G . . d h t' all nice w 1c 1s so e 1g u · front, by thrusting gentlemen c ma wns, er · Ie a ar~ dive?\ tion, an t a s re y 1 hope that prayer shawls can from Bigmouth College (N.H.)· age is good and true, and the This passage is indeed the since we all just love Brezhnev. b k . t , · . . come ac m o vogue; were and Heelium's (play on the in- door-to-door •salesman, Guppy, characteristic ' 1 atmosphere\ It's really a rather. nice. m- just dying to try our hand at ert gas) College (Mass.), Mary who is fond of giving her a throughout Wake's work. The traduction. He says mce thmgs those nonchalant, delightful becomes thoroughly exhausted, taste of his samples. But per- comparison with painting of about Mr. (Oops! _we ':llean naive patterns! and, upon graduation, retires to haps the seemingly chaotic whatever sort remains. The \comrade\ l) Shlapp~n-S~nsky The shawls are typified by a . Senecure, home of Generalized world ean be kept at a distance link between two forms of art and his wife and hls ehlldren row of red roses on the borders Electronics and Chiekspear and its details studied carefully is usually made via abstract and his fine book, which we all and a sheaf of wheat in the cen- College). (The scabrous and for the meaning they reveal. concepts which apply in differ- got such a kick out of. It was ter of the two latteral halves. scathing satire cuts the reader The spectator can, it may be, ent ways to each. · But Wake's really s~ell of B;ezhnev . to To quote the author: \The to the qt~.ick straightaway.) achieve a kind of detachment, descriptive art is much more ac- have wr1tten the mtroduct!On shawls were the pride of the Here, believing herself to be put the world in brackets, and curately described as inipres- for this swell hook. It was a town's faithful and the joy of freed from the Ul'\blushing at- study it as pure phenomenon. sionist painting in prose . than very nice one--both the book their owners and the sustenance tacks of forward and one-track Let us exi:mune a ct·ucial pass- as analogous to genre painting. and the introduction, we mean. of the seamstresses.\ Isn't minded young bon vivantes, age in which the unthw:arted He substitutes for the impres- We at the Skidmot·e News hShlappin-Smirsky~s style just Mary finds that she has ever Guppy, a polished, finely-edu- sionist's use of a single color have never had the pleasure of marvelous? We thought so, so lightly skipped from the fry- cated young Pole with a great the recurrence of symbolic roo- reading a more sincere, moving, too! ing pan into the fire. Revolting, appetite for pool and the young tifs, but in both there is the joyful, sympathetic, pathetic, But the shawls are the cen- Mary decides to marry a miner, ladies' charms, alternately tries sense of a pervasive space which bathetic, lovely book than Mr. ter of interest of the story; so Joe Garage, who wooed her hon- to become better acquainted destroys the self-enclosed sol- (We keep making that mistake! let us return to them: Roses estly, though clumsily. Garage with Mary and lectures our pert idity ()f all things. What ever will we do?) Shlap- and wheat we mentioned; now drank rather heavily, though miss: Wake's work is •a :masterpiece pin-Smirsky's book \The Peace the shavvls are accompanied by not more than mo&t miners, Wee talk then we will for of satire and incongruity. Zeny~ of Novgorod.\ silk envelopes into which they and always beer, so that whilst some time (still sez he).. But thing Goes is the most unuified Let's spend a few words on may he placed after being his health was affected, it was before proceeding to conclusive- and ·concentrated expression of this swell, nice book! \The flooded in case of rain. (Just never injured. The weekend ly confute this begging question ·wake's abid:ing sense of the Peace of Novgorod\ (the title ·like those delightful plastic rain was his chief carouse •. He prac- d'a1~t, it would be far fitter :for world. This little modern elas- is in English in the original) is coats.) And what about the. tically never had to miss work you to hear here and consult 'six is MUST READING. a collection of stories that have thieves? They aren't so very owing to his drinking, but the appeared in Novy Mir over the interesting, but they are nasty. toll on Mary bec{)mes too much past five years. (For those of For they steal those nice shawls to withstand. Mary is beset our readers who don't know, in order to force something-or- on all sides: by her girlish in- Novy Mir is a delightful, Rus- other on the townsfolk. sian litemry magazine.) Well, you can see how this The title story is truly won- story impressed us. We thought derful-the best in the collec-~ it was lovel~! W? reall~ t~ink tion It concerns the prayer that Shlappm-Smn·sky IS JUSt sha,;,l thieves of Tversk, a about the best writer ~e h~ve small village in the East {)f the ever read. He really lS mce. Soviet Union. It describes in You'll like his book, dear read- beautiful, haunting detail the er. What more can we say, but weavers preparing the cloth for \Wow!\ Phenomenological Bathing Suit FERR.O PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • Wins.!!~! .. ~!r Originality ~===FO=U=NT=AIN=S=ER=VI=ce=a Ollie Cassineg, an art major in the Class of 1967, . with a minor in philosophy because \I dig the stuff,\ has been awarded a first prize by the New York League of Design and the Phil~sophy of. Aestheti_cs for. her de- sign of a phenomenologlCitl one-piece bathmg smt .. A. E. Neuman, Preident of the League, in an exclusive ~n­ terview with the News, descnb- ed Miss Cassineg's design as a \Berkeleyan attempt at fusing time and s.pace in the. sense,con- tents of a Logical Positivist.\ partment and the art depart- ment were overjoyed at the news of her success. The two departments have agreed to hon- or Miss Cassineg at her earliest possible convenience but she is presently missing due to an in- valid argument in the logical construction of her own sense- contents. The American Associ- ation of Philosophers is attempt- ing to clarify the situation but it is unwilling to entertain a possible answer to the mystery. Ollie's mother, Olive has accus- ed the Association of being a RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPliES NOTIONS BAR SUPPLIES POL YETHELENE CELLOPHANE NOVELTIES RENTALS& GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER CO. SucceslOr tc. J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTIIBUTORS PAPER-PAPEit lAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway SchGnectady 5, N. Y. The bathill!g suit was awarded the first plize on the basis of its attempt, albeit a misdirected one, at originality. The suit iS made neither o-f material n()r of a substratum but is rather a logical construction out of sense- contents and as such exists in neither time nor space but sim- ply in the \mind\ of the per- ceiver. In such a case the wear- er is faced with the ethical di- lemma (}f deciding whether the suit's utility justifies wearing it since the fact of whether she is wearing it depends solely on the eyesight of her beach compan- ion. The wearer is therefore warned that the suit should not be worn in the company of a \skeptic tank!' The Standard \-------------: myopic college man. Miss Cassi'neg was ovelwhelm- ed when she was informed of the League's decision. When asked to comment on the one- piece, two-piece, and topless bathing s-uits she answered: \Comment! .•. No comment! .•• When asked why she had an- swered in such ail ambiguous fashion, she replied, \No com- ment!\ She told this reporter later that the lack of concrete- ness in her answers were the sign of a tl'Ue philosopher. The Skidmore philosophy de- Toilet Company of Chicago has. now joined the fray in order to protect its own interests. A Standard higher-up told this re- porter that when \Philosophers become plumbers and plumbers philosophers we shall all be bet- ter off.\ The Association has re- jected this proposition as \meta- physical in . character ~nd there- fore meaningless.\ During the course of this de- bate all attempts to find Ollie have been stymied and the col- • lege' commnnity deeply mourns her loss. As a high college of- ficial lamented, \Its really dif- ficult to find a good, old-fash- ioned L.P. these days.\ PATRONIZE OUR MOTELS Have Your Watch Repaired Right! ••• Right Here! Bring it In and let our specialists look it over. Reliable service is our watchword. Arid for new beauty, re·style your watch with a smart- l(i'e/s!er WATCHBAND Time Center Jewelers 428 State St. FR 4-0183 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American Food 1125 BARREM .ST. Schenectady Dl 6-97 44 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Bou,levard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE Amazing new liquid plastic coating used on all types of sur. faces interior or exterior. Eliminates waxing when applied on Asphalt Tile, Vinyl, Linoleum, Vinyl Asbestos, Hard Wood, and Furniture. Completely eliminates painting when applied to Wood, Metal, or Concrete surfaces. This finish is also recom- mended for b()ats and automobiles. NO COMPETITION As these are exclusive formulas in demand by all businesses, industry and homes. No franchise fee. Minimum investment-- . · $300. Maximum investment-$7,000. Investment is secur11d by inventory. Factory trained personnel will help set up your business. For complete details and descriptive literature write: CHEM-PLASTICS & PAINT CORP .. 1828 Locust St. louis 3, Mo. A:r; - - s· T v 'I ey one tl/.~4 to stre girl shit und roll of L ten Coil Nor mor fror cori1 S.mi s1on 0 was mac ley had wer due imp SCQ;t side walil alty by tion abil: loos T hanc witr thre scor yea1 E say~ ing stiel has defe mar play Enj c ( Aft pr<l set the tea . ,

1965 at- dis- boyo: died u years junks se- m1,1ch the The g of The art ac- .than color mo- the sol- of the elas- 44 Bar on to om- our Stickers Hope Spring Wt~ekencJ T P . I • • A Major Success . 0 . . U V e r I Z e .skidmore students were V ·. a, s s. a r T ·e am greatly sthn-qlated last weekend by the annual \ ·Tomorrow, Skidmore's hook- Spring. Festival. The weekend ey team Pl:tts all its eggs in was sponsored by the Student one basket in an effort to do Committee On Restoring Ethics. th h · Head of the Committee Sue . ree t :~;ngs: to go undefea~ed, Anthony d-eclared the e t to break a three year losmg · . \ . h · · ven streak, and to ~in the EOAC a. hug.e succe~s. T .ese great g! 'rl•s· fi ld h k t..- • n· · Jng W!ld parties really turn me . e . . oc ey cu~lllplO • , M'· G 1 . •h 'd ship. tt will be -a battle of the on,, · ~ss royn Ic er. sa1 · undefeated as arch rival Vassar on, ~lSS Al!thony :said. rolls in with a similar record· car fiUed Wlth Un~~? stu~ents of 7,0. had a head-on colbswn With a . , . car from Dartmouth on Union Last week Skidmore s fem~le, A venue. Many girls came to ten wreake~ havoc ·at Smith watch the figh·t but two of College as tt. ~verwhelmed t;he them, who rooted for the Dart- Nort~amp~on girls, .13-3. Skid~ mouth side, were attacked by a mone s guls _dommated play group from the lo -al o O$i- fro~ the opemng face off and tion. Y pp con~mua.lly out-maneuvered the. The campus was entertained S;m1th College ten for posses- Friday night by a sort of hoot- ston of th~ Io~se balls. . n'anny type of thing that fea- • € e•v .ell.,.,.,,., \yst~ \'\'\\'\'\1:\y o.:l ,_.;>ork cJ.o.y \'\'\'~'''>\ o ... r '3; r \ s o.r e. \e \<''/\ '\'') -'r.., o.d) \'d<; n s-<><->e.~y 'l\'\k\y · 'This mG'Y sae.,.. '.t\\-1\>\o, \o\t I!.. .,. .... r< <t's .,_\\ t:.>.r 'o<!-:s-\. tf)<2 jl~ o.re o. <>:,«A ~ Y.el'(> -\:., \'r.ese ~l.r\.:~., .. Pag-e. Five· :r: l<eer 're\\;\') ,.,y<><~!; tk~ ~·t.ryk\'• c>'G- ,J; ;he\' \,z_c;\leS a.. .,...,._;~e \'o\.e (ol\c\e1'1\' \Y\ ') me.· Outstandmg m the nets agam tured groups from local col-· w<~.s Bertha Hosk~wsky who leges. The \$he1woods\ from ---~----------------------------------- made 13 saves. Agamst Welles- Cornell threw their usual show has pioneered in the field of I nah, 'sjust some sorta some- tion was surprised that the ley two weeks ago, Skidmore but s~veral girls complained popular modern folk music. The thin or other,. so whoodayagon- weekend went so smoothly and had trouble scoring when they that they couldn't understand Sonnete(lrs were a bit flat as nado. S'nunna their business quietly. The Dean stated, that were in an extra girl situation some of the words. The ad- usual, but should be congratu .. anyhow, the nosy little noth- her campaign to drive sex off due to penalties. Against Smith ministration attempted; to have lated for trying hard; they have. ings.\ of the campus appears to be improvement was seen as they the \Dissipated 8,\ from Mid- matured considerably in recent Although the band was gen- successful. Her only regret is scorE~d 3 out of 6. On the other dlebury arrested following their years. eral!y dull, several people went that she has not yet purchased side of the field when Skidmore version' of \Hi-Ho Silver , but On Saturday night, a large out of theh· heads when they any stock in Holiday Inns. wa-e down ~· girl due to a pen- they fled through the 'men's cvowd turned out for the formal did the jerk; the dance was The Student Committee On alty, the g1rl down defense, led room window. Several police- dance. 2Miss Anthony was sup- frowned upon by the adminis- Restoring Ethics wishes to by Bobby Purger, was excep- men who were taldng a cigar- posed to be present to wei- tration as being too liberal, 1 thank all those who helped tiona! in their zone defense and ette 'break next .door, were seen come the couples, but was un- however, and was stopped in make the affair a deeply satis- ability to. slid~ and pick up the running the other way. The avoidably detained when her es- midstream. fling one for all. Miss Anth- loose Smith g1rl. \E-Flats from Williams, were cort became suddenly ill. When Sunday was generally quiet, ony feels that \If all Qf our The Vassarettes have been given a standing ovation for a asked on the telephone if it as there had been a number of weel~:ends cou1d be like this one, handling the Skidmore teams· series of songs made famous by was anything serious, she re- private parties following the we'd straighten this place out with relative ease for the last the \Hotnuts a group whiqh plied, \Sure wish it was, but formal dance. The administra- in no time.\ three years. Last year the ---;=============~======================================;: score was 12-4 and the two years before that 15-6 and 13-3.~ Even though Coach Aves says that her attackers a~e d~­ ing a real fine job with their stickhandling and scoring, she has special praise for her young defense whi·ch has done a re- markable job in learning team play. ~- - ' DIAMANTE'S : Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooke( Italian Food in Our Comfortdble Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. ·:p.p•n Dally 1 0 to 3 A.M. ·.'' ,~unday$ 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. BUY WITH CONFIDENCE ; i Aft Keepsake Diamonds ire protected eplnst foss from the setting for one fuJI year • , • by the famous Keepsake &IJaran· tee certificate. OHLSEN $225.00 lOYD $175.00 69 TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. Don't make me laugh. You mean to say, I could Dodge Polara, and I would foam seats. and all have bought that big, beautiful, luxurious have gotten a 383 cu. in. VB, carpeting, padded dash, those other things at no extra cost? Who's laughing? At Polara's prices, why clown around with smaller cars? See your Dodge Dealer. Step right up and see Polara-with a 121.inch wheelbase, weighing almost 4,000 road-hugging pounds. Powered by a 383 cu. in. VB that runs riot on regular. Paddefdash, full carpeting. All at popular prices. '& ·s Dodrn:.II!!IJ. n o•a ... a·· DODGEDIVISION~~CHRYSLER . . '::1... r-j I 4 • I ~· MOTORS CORPORATION

Page Six THE SKIDMORE NEWS April 29, 1966 Lecture Sched·uled 1 Seven Foot Barbed To Add .Rigidity To Wire Fence Social Rules Admissions·. • • (Continued from page one) ver Kehrt •• 0 (Continued from Page l) , H cr brother has \vritten the The trustees of Skidmore Col~ 1 semi-virgin, whose situation we!l-known hi~tory of the lege ha\·e announced that the ly discontinued when 70% of isn't relevant to the class of • 69 .1 \s1an theatre m World War 'fhe local area will be hon- ;;ocial rules of the college could 1 the male faculty were found On the lighter side of the 1 H, entitled The Himalayas: Tlte ored by the visit of one of the be sh:u·ply revised in the future.·; gassed on the main quad (near class there are [ 23 bleached R1M~ and Fall of the Hump • .A nation's foremost theoretical e~<:- It appears that the a.dminis- :the pool.) blonds 12 natural blonds 45 well-knowri. Harvard critic ha,s perts next week. The talk and 1 tration is com inced of the need 1 Obviously the impetus for the redhe;ds 275 brunettes. The 13 said of this book, in an e:xclu- discussion, sponsored by the j fur u more rigid• social code tore- 1 sudden tightening up of the so- ·girls fr~m Gamma Iota are sive interview with the News, Saratoga Men's Club, has been, pl:.t,·c the out-dated system irqw 1 cia] rode comes primarily from platinum blonds. The average that \Stern has manipulated planned for several months. ~in existence. There is specula- 1 \Frosh Incident\ of last Sep- height of the class is 5'4'', which his materia·! with a practiced . 1 t:on that this move will combine 1 tember in which the Admisisons should .please the boys from hand. He ~eserves to ~orne. to _In .accordance to b th~ geneJa~: with the transfer to the new ·Department. admitted to ha\:ing Williams College~ The average 1 gTeat prommence for h1s slnll. PJ.actlces of the Clu 't 1 e speec 1 campus to achieve what has ·I accepted thirty four boys mto weight is 10!) wh-ich is 13 more I ful labour.\ Wll.I be opened to the students of 1 been called \the highest degree ! the class of '68. Unfortunately than the su~ of the average l 1 --------~ Slndmore .as well as to the gen-~ of 'l'hysieal i. solation\ by some, · 1 this was not discovered until bust, waist and_ hip size .. The! Aw-a· ~' .. ·d· .. ·. era] pub~1c. Refreshment~ and. and \A fresh start!\ by others. the end of November because 17 8' I' sherry Wlll be se.rved, as m. the L Among the changes to be in- none of the thirty four girls average age IS . years, . I . 0 • • past. No one wlll ?e admttted I stituted in the new campus will with male roommates reported ~fn~~~ ~; o~a~~~nl~oS~;.rsTh~~ j (Continued from page one.) after ~he pre~entatwn h~s be- be a ::;even foot barbed wire the novelty to the dean. The . is exactly two months, 11 sec- I spirits fol\ several years.\ She gun, 81 ~ce, smd the Clubs sec- fence charged with ~7,000 volts, ruse howe\•er, was uncovered onds younger t:han the nationaL! was sitting in her elbow chair, re.tary 11 ~ a release to the News, which w i II s u r round the when one of the boys stupidly average. ! while her waiting maid went sh~es \: 1 11 be show~ and undue grounds. l\Ir. Whemple, Public decided to attend a swimming The interests of the 435 are out of the room for a few mo- nolse wtll tend to dtsrupt. * * * * Director (llir. Whemple class. varied and difi'e.rent. Four hun- men ts. On her return, s·he :found This year's speaker is of par- prefers that the word \rela- The reaction about campus dred thirty-four students are her mistress on fire. Despite ticular interest to the college tions\ not 'be used in describ- was difficult to determine but confirmed enthusiasts of Rock the fervent efforts of some ·de- community since he has trav-. ing his position with the col- seemed to be unfavorable as 'n roll while onE is deaf. Three· voted citizens, the flames could elled extensively in the East as ' le?'e) declared \Them prev~rts 1 was evidenced by the fact that hundred sixty-seven read the not he quenched until the body well as in the rest of the world, w1ll have a hard, er, ro\lgh t1me, j only l% of the present student Sunday New York Times, Sec- had been entirely consumed. so that he may present a gen- time bus tin er, I mean breakin 1 body registered for classes pext tion 2 only. Three girls, foreign· Mr. Kitteredge stated that such era! overview of the situation as into these er I mean' fall causing a serious problem students, don't read English at cases \of death of inebriates by it stands today. In addition, he grounds after I get my - er for the administration. S. L. all. One hundred forty-four internal flames\ are so numer- has been instrumental ~n the I mean this fence !n _,plac:.\ An- 'Fre~b~s, a ~rustee, was the. onlyj sh?wed an. avid . in~erest in ous and incon~overtib~e th~t formulation of a wide val'lety of 1 ot!:er of the stnlong wnova- adtmmstratlon member available br1dge playmg, which ts exactly \no person of mformat10u Will governmental and private plans 1 . Lon.:; provides that each student for comment and when asked enough for 36· tables of dupli-. question\ them. He then pro- and policies for the coming be equipped with a gas pellet if he thought there was a short- cate ih a nornal rotation. All ceeded to describe the last years. He is the author of one gun to ward otf any possible age of sexual freedom on cam- the girls have dated in high agonies of a man who was \lit- book and numerous articles. The molesters. This idea was first I pus he replied with a grin \I school, but a. small percentage erally roasted from the croW1l Philosophy Department urges instituted at Santa Monica Col- have had enough!\ The inter- prefers boys. One of the girls is of his head to the soles of his yvu all to attend. lege for Starlets but was quick- .view had to be ended at that of a modern age, and with the feet,\ and bathed in a flame The GALLEY 1735 VanVranken Avenue Phone 346-12 51 LARGEST IN TOWN 15c HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15c (with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS ___ - - - ____ . - - _ - - - - - - - - 20c French Fries ________________ - - - - 12c Thick Shakes _________ - ___ - - - - - - 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! + ¥ 0' ¥ + + f • v • W T 0 9 9 f f t f v f 0 f f ¥ 0 f 'f \'\TT'V\¥' ............... ...-.-~\V\\r.-~ DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Bevera<jes 118- 120 JAY STREET h.,.,t...t...L. ............. AA4,4.4.*66A·········*············· .. THE NEW MODERN IMPERIAL 400 MOTEL HOMER AND MARY SAMPSON Your Co-owner Hosts MAKE YOUR RESERVATION 927-933 STATE STREET I SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK For three Generations. Those Who Know ... Have been recommending - (51St 372-4701 HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER - Mauriue B. Graubart & Sons \\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY time as this reporter was fore- . growing concern over sexual that made him appear like the ed to leave the room. : freedom. wick of a candle. • • Graduation was only the begin,ning of Jim Brown's education Because he joined Western Electric Jim Brown, Northwestern University, '62, came with Western Electric because he had heard about the Company's concern for the continued develop· merit of its engineers after college graduation. Jim .has his degree in industrial engineering and is continuing to learn and grow In professional stature through Western Electric's Graduate Engi· nearing Training Program. The objectives and edu· cational philosophy of this Program are in the best of academic traditions, designed for both experi· enced and new engineers. Like other Western Electric engineers, Jirn started out in this Program with a six-week course to help in the transiti-on from the classroom to industry. Since then, Jim Brown has continued' to take courses that will help him keep up with the newest engineering techniques in communications. This training, together with fortnal college engineering studies, has given Jim the ability to develop his talents to the fullest extent .. His present responsibilities include the solution of engineer- big problems in the manufacture of moly-permal- loy core rings, a component used to improve the quality of voice transmission. If you set the highest standards for yourself, enjoy a challenge, and have the qualifications we're looking for- we want to talk to you! Oppor- tunities exist now for electrical .• mechanical arid industrial engineers, and for physical .science, lib- eral arts and business majors. For mc>re informa- tion, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. And oe sure to arrange for an interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. We1.1tern El~ctricMANUFAcTuR/Na ANo suPPI.Y uN1r oFrHe aeu svsTeM IJ' All EQU~L OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ~ Princ1pal manufacturing locations In 13 cities 0 Operating ce·nters in many of these same cities plus 36 oihers throughout the U.S. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N.J.OTeletvpe Corp., Skokie, Ill., Little Rock. Ark. '\'General Headquarters. New York C'tV J ·S j 3, 1 an€ one anc () '67 Co-u the baH and ple tim• CUlU den1 tion lt ' peoj Qffit not side inte clas T wer· ead lar sent Rob Jeff and of 1 Gee Mat Mar of 'j Am Ma~: Rob - L. - - s It fc 54

Page .Six THE SKIDMORE NEWS April 29, 1965 Lecture Scheduled 1 Seven Foot Barbed To Add .Rigidity To Wire Fence Social Rules Admissions~ ... (ContinHed from page one) ver Ke·hrt ••• (Continued fwtn Page 1) Her bl·othet· has written the The trustees <Jf Skidmore Col· I semi-virgin, whose situation we!l-known hi~tol:'y of the lege han! :wnounced that the. ly discontinued when 70% of isn't relevant to the class of 'Gg, : \sum theatre In World War The lora! area will be hon-~ social rules of the college co<1ld I the male facuHy were found On the lighter side of the 1 II, entitled The Himalayas•: The ored hy the visit of one of the be sharply revised in the future. 1 gassed on the main quad (near class thei·e are 123 bleacher! I~JM! and Fall CJf the Hump. A tmtion's foremost theoretical ex-j It appears that the adminis-: the pool.) ·blonds 12 natural blonds 45 well-known Harvard critic has p~rts ~ext week. The talk and i t.rulion is t'~n~·i we~ of the need I Ohviou.sly th~ impetus for the redhe~ds 275 brunettes. The 1a said of this book, in an exclu- discusswn, sponsored by the, lor a more rt~HI.'socral code tore-, sudden tightemng up of the so-· girls fr~m Gamma Iota are :>h·e interview with the News, Saratoga Men's Club, has been I pJa,·e the 0ut-clated system no\\ i cial code comes pr-imarily from·. platinum blonds. The averagt' that \Stern has manipulated planned for several months. . in existenre. There is specula- i \Frosh Incident\ of last Sep- height of the class is 5'4\ whic1 1 his material with a practiced : t:on that this move will combine • tember in which the Admisisons should please the boys from hand. He deserves to ~orne .to In .accordance to the general with the transfer to the new! Department admitted to having Williams College. The average .gTeat prominence fm· his skr1l- p!:actices of the Club, the speech 1 c:cmpus to aehieve what has 1 accepted thirty four boys into weight is 109, which is 13 more ful lahour.\ wrl.l be opened to the students of: hl•en ealled \the highest degree· the dass 0f '68. Unfortunately than the sum of the averap.;E' --------- Slodmore .as well as to the gen- 1 of physil·al isolation\ by sume,' this was not disc0vered until bust,. waist an~! hip size. The 1 Awa·r·d eral pub~rc. Refreshment~ and I and \A fresh start!\ by others. the eacl of NoYember because. average age Is 17 years, 8 : o o o sherry wJll be se.rved, as a~ the · Among the changes to be in- none of the thirty four girls months, 12 days, 18 hours, 37 : (Continued from past. No one will ?e admrtted! slitu•ted in the new campus wiH with male roommates repor1ied minutes as of noon today. This 1 page one) after ~he pre~entatwn h~s be-' be a seven foot barbed wire the novelty to the dean. 'The is exactly two months, 11 sec- ; spirits for several years.\ She gun, St?ce, satd the Club 3 , sec-j fence charged with 27,000 volts, ruse howe\'er, was uncovered ortds younger than the nationa1 i was :>itting· in he I' elbow chair, t·e.tary 11 ~ a release to the ~ ews, 1 which w iII s u r r o u n d the , when one of the boys stupidly average. , while her wa·i ting maid went slr?es \':rll be show~ arHl unllue 1 gnmnds. i\Ir. Whemple, Public! decided to attend a swimming Tbe interests of the 435 are out of the room for a few mo- norse Wll! tend to drsrupt. * * * * Director (l\lr. Whemple i dass. varied and different. Four hun- menls. On her return, she found This year's speaker is of par- prefers that the word \rela- i The reaction about campus rlred thirty-four students . are :her mistress on fbe. Despite ticular interest to the college ~ions\. not ~e. used. in describ-J was difficult to determine but conf·irmed enthusiasts of Rock 1 the fervent efforts of some de- community since he has trav- mg hts postt;on w1th the col- , seemed to be unfavorable as 'n l'oll while one is deaf. Three voted citizens, th.e flames could elled extensively in the East as 1 lege) declared \Them preYerts 1 was eviclenred by the fact that hundred sixty-seven read the not be quenched until the body well as in the rest of the world, will have a hard, er, rough time, I only 1% of the present student Sunday New York Times, Sec- had been entirel;v consumed. so that he may present a gen- time hustin er, I mean breakin 1 body registered for classes next tion 2 only. Three girls, foreign 1 Mr. Kitteredge stated that such eral overview of the situation as into these - er I mean fall causing a serious problem students, don't read Engrish at cases \of death of inebriates by it stands today. In addition, he 1 grounds .after I get my - er, for the administration. S. L .. all. One hundred forty-four internal flames\ .are so nurner- has been instrumental in the I mean this fence in place.\ An-1 Freehus, a t1-ustee, was the onlyi sh()wed an avid interest in 1 l ous ami incontrovertible that formulation of a wide variety of 1 utl:..,t· llf the :>trildng innova- administration n1ember available bridge playing, which is exactly ''no person of ir1formation will gevernmental and private plans i tlon;-; p~ovides ~hat each student ~or comment and w. hen as.ked enou~h for 36 tables o_f dupli-~' question\ them .. ~e. then pro- and policies for the coming 1 be equipped w1th a gas pellet If he thought there was a short-: cate m a normal rotatton. All ceeded to descr1be the last years. He is the author of one i gun to \Nard o1f any possible age of sexual freedom on cam- the girls have dated in high agonies of a matt who was \lit- book and numerous articles. The j molestl\rs. This idea was first I pus he replied with a grin \l school, but a small pereentage erally roasted frorn the croWll Philosophy Department urges I instituted at Santa Monica Col- have had enough!\ The inter- prefers boys. One of the girls is of his head to the soles of his you all to attend. lege for Starlets but was quick- v.iew had ~o be ended at that of a .modern age, and with the feet,\ and ~athed in a. flame trme as this reporter was fore- growmg concern over sexual that made h1m appear hke the The GALLEY 1735 VanVranken Aver:~ue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOWN 1Sc HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15c (with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS _____ - ___ - - - - _ • - - - - - -- 20c French Fries _________ - - ___ - -- -- - 12c Thick Shakes _____________ ---.-- 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! Tt t'f'T.f'f''f'f¥TVV9Yi TYYV+YV'f9T¥T\\T\\\t\ DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Roon1 Fine Food and Legal Beverages II B - 120 JAY STREET •••••••••• t ••• + .. 6 ........... ......._ ...... + •• + .............. . THE NEW MODERN IMPERIAL 400 MOTEL HOMER AND MARY SAMPSON Your Co-owner Hosts MAKE YOUR RESERVATION 927-933 STATE STREET I SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK For three Generations .. fhose Who Know •.. Have been recommending - (518) 372-4701 HERSHEL MAURICE B. WAlTER - Maurice B. Graubart & Sons ''3 Union Graduates in Graubarf Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ed to leave the\ room. freedom. wick of a candle. • • Graduation was only the beginning of Jim Brown's education Because he joined Weste,rn Electric Jim Brown, Northwestern University, '62, came with Western Electric because he had heard about the Company's concern for the continued develop· ment of its engineers after college graduation. Jim has his degree in industrial engineering and is continuing to learn and grow in professional stature through Western Electric's Graduate Engi- neering Training Program. The objectives and edu· cational philosophy of this Program are in the best of academic traditions, designed for both experi- enced and new engineers. like other Western Electric engineers, Jim started out in this Program with a Si)(-Week course to help in the transition from the classroom to industry. Since then, Jim Brown has continued to take courses tmat will help him keep up with the newest engineering techniques in communications. This training, together with formal college engineering studies, has given Jim the ability to develop his talents to the fullest extent. His present responsibilities include the solution of engineer- ing problems in the manufacture of moly·permal· loy core rings, a component used to improve the quality of voice transmission. If you set the highest standards for yourself, enjoy a challenge, and have the qualifications we're looking for- we want to talk to you! Oppor- tunities exist now for electrical, mechanical and industrial engineers, and for physical science, lib- eral arts and business majors. For more informa· tion, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. And be sure to arrange for an interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. Wt!.sf\l'lf EleetriCMANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY UNJr DF rHtr BIZLL :SYSTErM 'I' AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPL!lYEn ~ Principal manufacturing locations In 13 cities D Operating centers In many of these same cities plus 36 others; throughout the U.S. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N.J.OTeletYoe Corp., Skokie, Ill., Little Rock, Ark. n General Headquarters. New York City s F 3, tl and one and 01 ~67 ~ Cour the l balk and ple time cuml dent tion It VI peop of fie, not sider inter class Tl: were each la.r a sentj RobE Jeffr and of '« Geer Marl Mar1 of '6 A me Mae] RobE - L. ·- - c De s· It fo ne Sc ll Air ro ...........

966 the the War Tlte • .A ha,s ews, ted e to e) She mo- body d. such s by that will pro- last \lit- his tbe • ge to rid us. Faculty·. ,Passes . Three Term Calendar · · • • Comp~ Education Still Debated - Decision Soon Vol. 94,....... No. 22 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 196.5 PRICE 15 CENTS The Faculty Council has· ap- proved a threti term calen<l.:ar · for Uni{)n College. The plan for Comprehensive Education, how- , ever, is still under con-sidera- tion and the entire .curriculum revision is not expected t{) S .· ~.;,t a· p· . ·k· \( 7.• Editor's Note: This is really OONCORDIENSIS. The emevge from the council until , .. lJ 1 · on an , , . .· · J . · .. e .fl te six pages whicb surround this insert were di$tributed at next week. None of the pro- , that venerable institution in Saratoga yesterday, some posals will go into effect 1.mless V 1T1 s c D •t • .hours before the real SKIDMORE NEWS hit the stands. the whole plants acted upon. J! or ~ ()h ' . . . . . r'OS'I ton ' We trust that for a wWie, at least, the girls were a, bit Some alterations have been '.1::' • confused~ . made in Proposals A, B and C In an election to be held on May 10, instead o'f May which are concerned with the 3, the ... student body .will choose betwee.:n Raymond Pike · calendar plan. One a):Ilendment a a l d calls for a five-day week, elim• and Richard Sifton for its President. At' the same time, . . . a·...... . t .. h. . u·s· Q. e.n. · a· r. •. inatin~ all Saturday <}lasses. The one of the two candidates for secretary, Larry Ludwig.'· # # \'..1:' • effect1ve inclusion of t.h is and Jeff Ratner, will be chosen for the position, change, however; is contingent . . - ..._ T. h w· k d .. upon further switches m. the On, April 26 the classes o.f '66, -t~ · . · . . e . e.e · . e B . . tentative schedules outlined in '67 and '68 chose their Student 1 M H . the report of the Curricular Af. ~~i!vRyef~::~f;}v10:t~~s~~~: ·. .. • orse.• . . ere •.. Friday, April 30, 1965 .. fairs Comrnitt~e. 2:3~1Jaseball; Union vs. NorWich;. Alexander Jrield 1 f · 1a balloting procedure was smooth 8 : 3 0-0oncert; The Shirelles, Gary U, S. Bonds, and Little The genera ore1gn nguage and rapid~ Althoug'h :fewer peo-. N· ' ex· t·· ·w· · ... · e· e··k· •.. Richard; Memorial Field House requirerpent has been reinsti- ple ran fo~· thi~ office than i:ti • Fraternity Parties · tuted. Rather than leave Ian- times past, Vil::tor Fazi 0 , the in- . gauge requisites to department curnbent . President of the Stu- · k b Saturday, Mar 1, 1965 discretion, the stu4ents who are demt · Bod,y, expressed satisfac- Curti:S Wor · To De ut 11 :oo~Soap Bax Derby; Schaffer Library . aiming at the A. B. degree will tion with this year's campagin,s. W~yne Morse, Dem'{Jcratic ·. 2:00-Lacrosse.; Vnion v:s. Clarkson; Daly Field be asked to complete on~ term lt was his opj.flion that those Senator frqm, Oregon will ad- . 2:00~'frack; Union vs. Middlebury; Alexander Field in ~he literatl.rre of a foreign· people who h11d fo1•merly sought ·dress members of the c'ollege'.. 2 :3()-Freshman Tennis; Union vs. Bard; TelUlis Courts . or classic;1l language beyond the Qffice as ego gratification did and the comtnuni·ty Tuesday 8:00-Concert; Dave Brube'Ck Quartet; Memorial :J:i'ielcl House intermediate level. For students not enter their namf)s for con.- · · ht M 4 t. 8 00 p M 1 ·n Fratern. ity Parties · in the B.S. program, the re• · · 1 mg ' ay ' a · ; · ' ·. ' t t ' d · th · sideration, while those smc¢re y Memorial Chapel. Wednesday qun;oemen s are re ame lh . eJX interested in representiug their night, :May 5, 1;he sixteen mem- ; present form, under which all classes did. her Albany String Orchestra • must pass a language at the '.\ .il.l perf.o.rm th .. e premiere of. Th W k . ~ntermediate level. The ·student council elections '' .· e e C Pr 1 B hi h 1·· · ted Edgar Curti!:i' Concert(') for Or- , · · · · · · · · oposa , w c e 1mma w~re often extremely close, as · gan and String Orchestra. the semester credit hour SY'Stem each positin har several pop:u- Tuesday, May 4, 1!}65 d. h t't t d · ed l -\ bl R Senat· or M' ·orse's tal·k, \.pon-.· . : .an su s 1 u e · a reqmr num- , ar anu. capa · .e persuers. epreR \' 11:30-Student Body Meeting; Memodal Ohapel · lx)r of courses for graduation, senting the Class of '66 are sored by the Student Council, ; 2:~Ch-)3asel;lall; Union vs. Qlarkson; Alexander Field · was passed intact. · Rol)e-rt Dickman, l;~rry Lud\Yig · wili deal with American foreign ·. 7 :00f-'IFG Tvleeting; Hale House Student Lounge , Jeffrey Ratner, R1chard Siel'IS policy in VietNam. The Senator .• S:oo ...... student Council Speaker; Senator Wayne Morse,. (D) Transition Simplified and Richard Sifton. The Clas:s has been deeply involved in our · Oregon; Memorial Chapel . The portion of the original re- o$ 1 67 · is . rept'e~ented by John. affairs in South,East Asia, and, port which discussed the means Geer, Andrew Kadak, Robert lis a kllown critic of administra- · • Wednesday, May 5, 19.65 of transition to the new system Marshall, Raytnond Pike and t!on :policy in Viet Nam. 2:30-:Baseball; Union vs. Stevens; Daley Field was simplified to say that all Martin Pinesoh, w:Wle the Class The orchestra's. performance 2:30-'Tennis; Union vs. Stevens; Tennis Courts students n-ow here, or entering in of 1 68· is rep;resented by Rich;nd . Will mark the first time that the 3:00-li'resb,inan Lacrosae; Union vs •. Lenox September, Will graduate under Amesbury, Petet Dawl!on, James· Curtis piece has been publicly . 8:30'-C.hamber Music Concert; Memoriwl Chapel, Convocation the old plan with equivalent re- MaeDonald, Stephen Walker and played. In addition, al?other ~on- Thursday, May 6 , 1965 quirements worked out individ- Robert Winner. temporary· work, a sUlte e .. nt.ltle.d . oolly with the several .depart- 10 am-2 pm-Marine Corps Information Team; Hale House t John F. Kennedy: A Tribute, Student Lounge mens. · and a traditional work, Mozart's H :qO-,..S!:mior Class Meeting; Chemistry Lectqre .Room The amendments to the Com- ·L· G BALFOUR co· Concerto #1 in D for Horn .and 2.:3(}-Freshrnan Tennis; Uliion vs. Albany State; Tennis prehensive Education proposals ' • · \' · . • Orchestl'a will be offered. At Courts . center around the desire to re- . CARL SORENSEN the end of the concert the two 4:30-Pre-Law Society Speaker; Edward J, Ennis; National duce the number and content of BADGES • 'RINGS • ,fAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS ~ KEYS MEDALS , - TROPHIES Write or Coli fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouee Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 Coin- op Cleaning $2.00 For 8 Lb. Leave it - We Do It D & S at SHERIDAN PLAZA l!P Rosa Rd. from Ellis Daily-8:30 A.M.- 9 P.M. Sat. tll 6:00 o1 6-9a66 \f t'· ,, - •• --1 • ''. ' 'W .- f :; • ' -, ' ,- ' f STUDENT TRAVEL It is too late now to book for Europe. i)ut. don't miss next Christmas Vacation. CON 1 SU1T us FOR ALL YOUR TRAVEL NEEDS', S.chenectady Travel - 8ureau,~·lnc .. Est, 19~0 424 STATE ST. scHe'ii.n:c:rADY., N. v. PHO.NE FR 1•8506 A,gents For All Leading Airlines - $t,eam Ship - ~ail­ roads and Cat Rental Cos. · modern pieces will be replayed Counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union; · the prq.po~ed courses .• The coun~ for all those Wishing a second ; \Obscenity and. the Law'';. Bailey Hall 304 cil Will meet nearly every day opportunity to hear them. ! until these planS are acted upon. For 20th Century Individualists! ------~·~·~ . new .f\!!Carved® D~AM DIA.._l\'fOND ~_!'JGS For love's sake any girl would accept even an ordinary engagement ring- squat-looking, uninspiring. B.ut, in her heart, she hopes ior an extraordinary ring which will compel the admiration of all. ArtCarved Dream Diamond Rings are extraordinary. Shun- ning the excessive metal and gingerbread of ordinary rings they delight the modern eye. Pure in form, elegantly sculp- tured, they exp'ress the taste of om time. Keep this ad for comparison! See 0ur new styles at your ArtCarved jeweler before you decide. :::'lch from $150. For free illustrated folder write to Art.Carved, Dept. C; 216 East 45th Street, New York, N. Y. 10017. See Dream Diamond Rings onlyatthese Authorized ArtCarved Jewelers NEW YORK Schenectddy -.- Maurice B. Grabart Sherburne - Turner Jewelry Store Southampton- Corwin's Main Street Jewelers Springville-.- Robert H. Engel Syracuse- Albert•s Jewelry, Inc. Syracuse -. E. W. Edwards & SQn Wellsville - Fred A. Drew, Jeweler White Plains - Bramley & Co., Inc. NEW YORK CITY Brooklyn -. -. Nilsen's Jewelers Brooklyn -· -. B. Senter Inc. Freeport-.. Lloyd'!; Jewelers, Inc. Manhattan -·- Clive Jewelers Inc. Manhattan -· D·ial Jewelers Manhattan -· Dyckman Time Shop Manhattan -Maurice L. Kester Jewelers; ~nc. Manhattan -·- Schwartz Bros. Manhatton - Morris Weigler Manhattan - Wexler, M. & Sons. Ridgewood - Isaacs Jewelers Staten Island ('Greelt Kills) -. Paul's Jewe.lers Staten Island (Port Ricnmondl-RusseU-Reed, Inc. Queens Village - Jaeger Jewelers

the the The has iced to She mo- pite de- by will pro- last his the :;.·····. to nt he .s. F acuity ,Passes Three Term Calendar Vol. 94 - No. 22 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. FRIDAY, APRIL 30, :1965 PRICE 1 5 CENTS Si/ton and Pike Vie For Top SC Position ·Editor's Note: 'Jbis is :really CON<lORDIENSIS. The ·six .pages which surround this .insert were distributed at . that venerable Institution in Saratoga yesterday, some · hours before tb.e :real SKIDMORE NEWS hit the stands. We trust that for a while, at least, the girls were a bit confused. Comp. Education Still Debated - O:ecision Soon The Faculty Council has a;p- pmved a three term calendar for Union College. The plan for Coll:lprehensive Education, how- ever, is still under con-sidera- tion and the entire curriculum revision is not expected to emerge from the council until next week. None of the pro- posals will go into effect unless the whole plan is acted upon. In an election to be held on May 10, instead of May .~-------------------------.j 3, the stud-ent body will choose between Raymond Pike • and Richard Sifton for its President. At the same time, · one of the two candidates for secretary, Larry Ludwig~ So-me alterations have been made in Proposals A, B and C which are concerned with the calendar plan. One amendment calls for a five-day week, elim- inatin~ all Saturday classes. The effective inclusion of this ·change, however, is contingent upon further switches i:n the tentative schedules outlined in the report of th€ Cun'icular Af- fairs Committee. and Jeff Ratner, will be chosen for the position. Canapus Calendar The Weekeud On April 26 the classes of '66, ~-------------­ '67 and '68 chose their Student 1 Council Representatives. Despite ' M·orse Her. e the heavy turnout of voters, the balloting procedure was smooth Friday, April 31), 1965 2:30-Baseball; Union vs. Norwich; Alexander Field 8:30-Concert; 'The Shirelles, Gary U. S. Bonds, and Little Richard; :Memorial Field House and rapid. Although fewer peo- N. ext W· eek'. • . ple ran for this office than in times past, Victor Fazio, the in- cumbent President of the Stu- dent Body, expressed satisfac- tion with this year's campagins. It was his opinion that those pe0ple who had formerly sought Qffice as ego gratification did not enter their names for con- sideration, while those sincerely interested in representing their Fratemity Parties Th€ general foreign language requirement has been reinsti- tuted. Rather than leave Ian- gauge requisites to departm€nt discretion, the students who are aiming at the A. B. degree will be asked to complete one term in the literature of .a foreign· or classical language beyond the intermediate level. For students in the B.S. program, the re- quirements are retained in their :present form, under which all must pass a language at th€ intermediate level. classes did. The student council elections were often extremely close, as each positin har several popu- la.r and capable persuers. Repre- senting the Class of '66 are Robert Dickman, Larry Ludwig, Jeffrey Ratner, Richard Siei\S and Richard Sifton. The Class of '67 is re·pt·esented by John Geer, Andrew Kadak, Robert Marshall, Raymond Pike and Martin Pineson, while the Class of '68 is represented by Richard Amesbury, Peter Dawson, JameR MacDonald, Stephen W·alker and Robert Winner. L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave •. Syracuse, N. Y. 132\10 Coin • op Cleaning $2.00 For 8 ~b. Leave it -We Do It D & S at SHERIDAN PLAZA up Rosa Rd. from Ellis Daily-8:30A.M. - 9 P.M. Sat. til 6:00 Dl 6-9866 -'f '¥ T f ¥ f V 'T t f Y V f 't' i' + f V 9 f f STUDENT TRAVEL It is too late now to book for Europe. But don't miss next Christmas Vacation. CON 1 SULT us FOR ALL YOUR TRAVEL NEEDS. Schenectady Travel Bureau,·· Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 · Agents For Ail Leading Airlines - st~am Ship - Rail- roads and Car Rental Cos• Curtis Work To Debut W a:yne Morse, Democratic I Senator from Oregon will ad- dress members of the college and the community Tuesday night, May 4, at 8:00 P.M. in Memorial Chapel. Wednesday night, May 5, the sixteen mem- ber Albany String Orchestra · wm perform the premiere of Edgar Curtis' Concerto for Or- gan and String Orchestra. Senator Morse's talk, spon- sored by the Student Council, will deal with American foreign policy 1n Viet Nam. The Senator has been deeply involved in our affairs in South-East Asia, and is a known critic of administra- tion policy ·in Viet N am. The orchestra's performance I will mark the first time that the Curtis piece has been publicly , played. In addition, another con- I temporary work, a suite entitled John F. Kennedy: A Tribute, and a traditional work, Mozart's Concerto # 1 in D for Horn and ~ Orchestm will be offered. At I the end of the concert the two · modern pieces will be replayed for all those wishing a second opportunity to hear them. · Saturday, May l, 1965 11 :00-Soap Box: Derby; Schaffer Li•brary 2 :00-Lacrosse; Union vs. Clarkson; Daly Field 2:00-Track; 1Jnion vs. Middlebury; Alexander Field 2:30-Freshman Tennis; Union vs. BaJ'd: Tennis Courts 8:00-Conce1t; Dave Brubeck Quartet; Memorial Field House Fraternity Parties The Week Tuesday, May 4,, 1965 11:30-Student B-ody Meeting; Memol'i-al Chapel 2:30-BasebaU; Union vs. Clarkson; Alexander Field 7:DO~IFC Meeting; Hale House Student Lounge 8:00-Student Council Speaker; Senator Wayne Morse, Ore·gon; Memol'ial Chapel Wednesday, M:ay 5, 1965 2 :30-Baseball; Union vs. Stevens.; Daley Field 2:30-Tennis; Union vs. Stevens; Tennis Courts 3:00-Freshman Lacrosse; Union vs. Lenox • (D) 8:30-Cham·ber Music Concert; Memori·atl Chapel, Convocation Thursday, Ma.y 6, 1965 10 am-2 pm-Marine Corps Information Team; Hale House Student Ixmnge 11 :30-Senior Class Meeting; Chemistry Lecture Room 2:30-Freshman Tennis; Union vs. Albany State; Tennis Comts 4:30-Pre-Law Society Speaker; Edward J. Ennis; National Counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union; \Obscenity and the Law\; Bailey Ball 304 Proposal B, which eliminated the semester credit hour sy~tem and substituted a required num- ber of courses for graduation, was passed intact. Transition Simplified The portion of the original re- port which discussed the means of transition to the new system was simplified to say that all students now here, or entering in September, will graduate under the old plan with equivalent re- quirements worked out individ- ually with the several depart- ments. The amendments to the Com- pl•ehensive Education proposals center around the desire to re- duce the number and content of the proposed courses .. The coun- cil will meet neal'!y every day until these plans are acted upon. See Dream Diamond Rings only at these~uthorized ~rtGarved Jewelers RINQS E:lilAAGEO NEW YORK Schenectady - Maurice .S. Grabert SnerbiJrne - Turner Jewelry Store Southampton -Corwin's Main Street Jewelers Springville-.- Robert H. Engel Syracuse- Albert's Jewelry, Inc. Syracuse- E. W. Edwards & Son Wellsville - Fred A. Drew, Jeweler White Plains -Bramley & Co., Inc. NEW YORK CITY For 20th Century Individualists! Brooklyn - Nilsen's Jewelers Brooklyn - B. Senter Inc. Freeport- Lloyd's Jewelers, Inc. Manhattan -·- Clive Jewelers Inc. Manhattan - Dial Jewelers Manhattan - Dyckman Time Shop new .A!! Carved® D~AM Dli\_~OND R..._If'1GS For love's sake any girl would accept even an ordinary engagement ring- squat-looking, uninspiring. Eut, in her heart, she hopes tor an extraordinary ring which will compel the admiration of all. ArtCarved Dream Diamond Rings are extraordinary. Shun- ning the excessive metal and gingerbread of ordinaryrings they delight the modern eye. Pure in form, elegantly sculp- tured, they exp·ress the taste of our time. keep this ad for comparison! See 0ur new styles at your Art Carved jeweler before you decide. ::Kh from $150. for free illustrated folder write to ArtCarved, Dept. C, 216 East 45th Street, New York, N. Y. 10017. Manhattan -Maurice L. Kester Jewelers, Inc. Man hatton - Schwartz Bros. Monhattan- Morris Weigler Manhattan -Wexler, M. & Sons Ridgewood - Isaacs Jewelers Stoten Island (Great Kills) - Paul's Jewelers Stoten Island (Port Richmond )-Russell-Reed, Inc. Queens Village -·-Jaeger Jewelers

