'Vot. 95 - · No. 1 v UM C71 - \j ·-i J) tCih·i/0' Presidency •. . Is Assun~ed . l'r · ~, By Ratner · The student body will have a new p1·?sident this fall. Ray- : . ~· mond Prke, who was elected dur- 1 ing the Spring· term, was forced to leave as a result of academic . difficulties. Presently, the acting president .:l is Jeffrey Ratner, the former sec- retary. The constitution calls for an election by the Student Coun- cil of permanent officers. · • Voting will take place October . 5. J ·o hn Hausman '66 has been nominated for the position of sec- . retary, and Ratner is the sole contender for the presidency. The · general student body cannot vote, but anyone desirous may attend the meeting and be recognized to speak. · \ The Junior class a·lso lost its president, due to the rigors of academics at the close of 1ast 1term. Robert Benjamin, class vice-president, will take the place of Lindley Parker. Both were elected last year. Founded ·at Union College 18 ' 77 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1965 President Martin addressing t}Je CQnvocation. Martin Stresses Gr · owth, Change r7 / .... -· / PRICE 15 CENTS Building Program Regains Momentum Last Ju.ne , Union College embarked on the most ex - . . · :ensive building progratn in its history, with four -build- ings under simultaneous constructio!1. ~-~~--------~ AU of the buil din gs were orig- ina lly sched lued for complet i on b y Co lle·a.e . P-icks S ept~mber, 1966, but a construe- ~ \ t ion strike, which lasted mos t of New Deans By Barry Rudnick . t he summer, ha lte d the progra m shortly after grou ndb reaking . Librar y Joined Two satellites , wh\ch will be connected to Sch a ffer Libr ary by c urved co llonades, will be kn ow n Neal w. Alle n, Jr., has been j o intly as the Cente r for Human- i ties ~nd So cial Sciences. The · appointed to the post of Dean of floor J?lans pro vid e for two-stor y Humanities and Social Sciences. buildi ngs with full basemen - ts . His counterpart a s Dean of .Sc i - The s~cond floor in each will con - t ain offic e s and seminar rooms. · ence and Engineering is H~rold The first floor in each · Will con- .· E. Way. Bo t h posts were estab- tain lecture rooms. , Ushed during t h e last few months , Meade Brunet , C hairm an of the Inauguration Next Week · t he new appo int ees beginni ng P oard of Trus t ees, announc ed t he pl a n f or th e center at , the Addresses Convocation Dr. Harold C. Martin will: be formally in- · work in Sept emb el'. Commencement Exercises las t New members of the Student By Marty Strosberg j Council are David Liden '66 and Dr. Harold C. Martin, in a ddressing the op e n- , William Nealon '67. The Council ing com·ocation of Union College, called for stu- . , also lost Dwight w oolf i67 due to dents as well as faculty to unite in a spirit of ' grade troubles. oneness for the advancement of the College. Dr. rat d P \d t f U • C lJ · d June. A ground br ealcing ceremony au g u · e as r e~I en ~ :nion ° ege a n Professor Allen first came to f ollowed. He state d that the satel- Chance~Ior. of U~10n U~ · 1vers1ty _on Satui'day, . Union in 1951, eventually be- li tes would cost $ 2 . 3 million a nd Octobet 2 m a cerimony m Memorial Chapel. coming Chairman of the Depart- a dded that \an anonym ous frie nd De egates Attend . ment of History . He continues has been most generous w i th a Martin said that responsible student inquiry was ~ 1 Council Meets essential for this advancement. d One hundr~d seventy-thre7 d e legates Will !lt- to teach an intro ductory Englis h gift of $500,000 \ T h1'ch has been a • .. ' The Student Council held its H t t d \I th l'b 1 · 't .,. 1 openin\' meeting Tue · sday nt'ght e s a: e , n e 1 era sp1r1 , every course F.. of study, every intern a l institution~ every rule 1 in the Hal e House lounge. Act- mu ·s t const ant ly be open to question ... . but every ten , along wrth representatives of the Umon H' t . \ College faculty, the Board of Tt\UStees, the Alum- IS ory cours e . . Professor W~ ~ c rucial elemen t in o ur plant.\ The ni Council, and the Student Council. teaches and re tam s post as Charr- : g ift together with contribu tions Some Tickets Available · man of the Department of Phy- from truste e s still prov-ides \lit tle l \ ' ing pt•esident, J eff rey Ratner, question, . in that same spirit, must evok e in the present e d the issues with which questioner a responsibility to speculate, to c on- the Student Council will be con- ·fer, to propose.\ eerned this year. · In discussing plans for the progress of the Th e1 · e are a limit e d s upply o f tickets a v a il- sks. m ore tha n half of th e to tal cost.\ able for st uden ts . Th ey will b e dist ri buted be - · B runet is confiden t tha t \~ther s ginning Monday , S e ptember 27 , at 4:00 p.m. at Aids Administration w ill respond to th is d emonstra - the Public Rela t ions Office in Wells House. t ion of faith i n the great future Ratner report e d that a com- College, Dr. Martin emphasized that students mitt ee has been appointed to mu·st take the initiative to create an atmosphere work with President Martin and in which growth and c hange ca n take . place. Al- the Deans on reconstructing the though th e di ffic ulties would be great, Dr. M ar- s tud ent g overnment. tin said h e hoped to see a strengt h ening in arts, Far mer to Speak foreign s tudents program, an d gra duat e schoo l Allan Starr, chairman of the st udy. tax committee, announced that College Center Need Stressed the Student Councit is sponsor- The President said that he also wished to see The pro gra m will begin Frid a y evening, Oc~ The tw in posts were established of Union College. \ tober 1 with a dinner at Hale Ho · use for Dr. in an effort to streamline the Gray and W hite Kept Martin, his friends, and personal as so ciates. At college administ rat ion system and Plans for the two dot-mi tory th e sam e t ime, M. rs . Mar t in w ill en t erta in the to facilitate a more rapid means structures, each o f w hieh will d e l egates ' ·wiv es at the P1·esident's home. of communicatio n between the e ventually house two fraternities, ing convocations With James increased co-operation l>etween Union College anq it Farmer, natiopal executive sec- the facilities of Union Univetsity and Gener a l ret ar y of C.O.R.E., William 6. Electric. h · D e l eg ates will assemb le ih aca d emic ro bes fac ult y a nd th e administ ratio n. were rev ealed in th e Fall of 1964 . a t M e morial F i e ld Hou se Saturd a y at 9:30 a.m. The n ew plan w ill a l so e nab le T h e buildings whic h represe n t a for the academic procession. The order of ma.rch President Martin and D ea n Lock- ma rked dep . artur e from pre vious will be: Air Force ROTC Color Guard; the: Sc he• wood to deal at greater length li ving arrangements a t U nion, nect a dy Pip e Band; the facul W o f Un i on Colle ge; with the more g eneral problems will be locat ed in the pasture, dele ga tes from colleges and un ive rsiti es in order facing Union, a grea t deal of the so uth of We st Co llege. Tota l ca- o f founding : dele gates from le u ·ned s ocieti es in specialized d epar t mental work be- pacity of the str ucture will be orcler o f f ounding; d ea ns of \((nion Coll ege and in g the responsibility of th e new 5 16 with dini ng fa ciliti e 's for . 160 Douglas, associate Supreme Court In noting t e construction on campus, Dr. justice, an d Clinton Ros · siter , not- · Martin exp r esse d th e need for a college center, e d politi ca l scientis t from Cor- larger dining fac ilities, proper space in whi c h to nell University. develop prog . rams in mu s ic, theat er , a nd art, for Univ ers i ty; trustees; th e P resid en t's party; a lu m~ deans. me mber s of the fo u r fraterniti€s . ni r epr-esentatives; and m em ber s of the Student T h e re will be .119 three-room Council. The n e w sy stem , which was suites each of which will house He also mentioned that the improved athletic facilities, new housing for the sciences and engineering, expa nsi on of the in- possibility of a new Stud en t firmary, administrative, anq alumnae facHities. !. Center is vy-ing with the pro- Future of Fra-ternities Questioned Field House to Chapel somewhat artificially impose d f our student&' and 34 single room s . The rout e will be: from the Field Hou se upon the pre v ious fo ur-division Also included will be six loung es, south ' to Bailey Hall, west al ong North Lan e t o plan of the college , is planned a s te levi sion and recreation sp ace , Andrew Carnegie HaU, where the President's the initial step in the coalesc ing res id e nt facu lty ap ar t men ts, and party will j~in the march between the ac a demic of the fo ur aca d emic di vis ions , park ing a r eas adjacen t to S ewar d d e l egates and th e alumni 1·eprese ntativ es. Th e into two centers . The du tie s of P l ace. Th e d es i gn wiil be modern , proc essi on will continu e across . L ibr ary Field , the h ew deans are to aet as in- havi,ng only the g ray and . white a roun d th e w e-st sid e of N ott lY!e~Q ri a l '\ to M e- te rm e diaries b et ween th e various motif in common with tr aditional posals for a science center In turning to other mattets of campus con- for top priority in building cern, Dr. Martin sai d th a t the fut ur e of fraterni- pl a n s. Th e campus and plant ti es throughout the country is uncertain in vi ew 1 committee i's working actively on of th e qui c ken e d p a ce o f collegiate study an d the ' plans for such a student cent e r. soc iolo gi c a l chan ge whi c h h as a lt e red students ' moria! Chap e l. d epartmen ts and t h e admi nistra - c amp u s structur es . Continued on Page 4, Col. 1 Continued on Page 4, Col. 6 Continued on Page . 4, Col. 4 · tion, to deal' with th e neecls of Completion U ncertain the depar tments of which they The con s truction of the d ormi- Garnet-Larrie Contest · ·To Open Grid Season · Activities Reconvene; Union College Clubs are in ch arge, to h e lp formulat e tories is being finan ced by a $3 t he curricula of the various d e - m illion F ederal loan . Th e cost of partments, and ·t o bring the twin t h e b uil dings, furni shed, was or ig - disciplines of scie nce and the hu- ina lly estimated at $3.5 million; maniti es at Unio n in closer con- revised estimates in di cate that the tact tha n they ha ve previously co st will reach 4 . 5 milli .on . Th e · I increase i n cost confli cts with Continued on Page 5 Col. 1 (Continued on Pa g e 4, Column 3) ... , \W e 'll probably be throwing the b a ll,\ said hea d va rs i t y fo o t- b a ll coach G e orge Flood, r e f e r- rin g to tomo rr ow's football op e ll· e r a ga in s t S t. Lawrence at 1: 3 0 on Alexand er F i e ld. The Dutchm en will use a pass- ing attack by seni or qua rterback {1, Tom Hitchcock, ho ld er of e i g ht a ll - tim e co ll eg e record s . Hitch- cock will he firing- to s plit e nd . M arc Hurlbut , ti g ht e Qd Sam ., . · P ill, a nd win g back Jim Willi ~s . • Th ere won't be an y t e am h i gh- sc oring reco rds this year as the Garnet op e n th e ir 79th f ootb a ll SE>ason; In 188 4, t h e Dutchm en s e t th a t mark by trouncing Ham- · ilto n, 96- 0, a nd in 1889, Union · suffere d a s imil a r lo ss t o Wil - n 1 \' li ams, 1 3 0 - 0. Tie d for Sec ond Union tied for second in th e l eag u e b e hind A l f r e d l ast season with a 2-3-1 r ec ord in the In de- pendent Co ll eg e Athletic Con - f e rence fo otb a ll title . Oth er I. C .A .C . sch ool s a r e Hob ar t, RPI, a nd St. L a wrence. Ro c h es ter , 1 Hamil to n, Bowdoin , a nd Willi ams a l s o com pl e t e the e i ght-gaP'!e sc h e dul e . Th e Dutchm e n h ave the chan ce , to eve n th e scor e tomo.Tow in · their 27th game agai nslt St Law - r e nce. Union h as won 1 0, l ost n , a nd tie d five jn th e series . La s t year our g ridd e r s trounced St . La w rance , 19 - 7 . Unio n l ost th e game in 1963, 21-19 . MARC HURLBUT Plan Future Events In sta rtin g off our n e w year , Concordiensi s off e rs her e a s ur vey of a numb er of s tudent ac tiviti es on c a mpu s . Th e artic l e di s cu sses the plan s of eac h or ga ni zat ion, and gives a s hort d escripti on. This s ur- vey is the product of our n e w freshman report ers . Mountebanks The Mounteb a nks, und er the l ea d ers hi p o f Ben Wech s l e r a nd a dvi se d b y Prof e·ss or M e riwether, is th e on .ly dr ama ti cs society on camp u s , . but enco urag es an d sponsors other 'p l aye r s and production s . Th i s year , th e y hope to s t i mul ate mor e o f a n int e r es t in the theatr i- cal arts by b r oadening their activi ti es , which will in clud e so m e co- op erat i ve work with WR UC. . T h e p l ay sc h e du l e for t hi s year h as b e e n compl e t e d an d will draw m a inly from th e It a li an Th ea t e r . On Decemb e r 8th-12th, The Mistre s s of th e Inn (La Locartdi e ra), a f a mous comedy writt en b y - Ca rlo Goldoni, will mak e its d eb u t on camp u s . The Empe ro r (Enrico IV), Lui g i P i ran d e llo' s drama of an in sane twe nti e th - ce ntu ry ar i sto- . crat who be li eves he i s Henr y I V, will b e give n · On Apr il 13th t hrou g h t h e l7th . A l s o of int eres t will he a se ri es o f one act plays · to b e gi v en during Pa r e nt s W ee k e nd (M ay 4-7) . IR C P lan s Ac tivitie s Th e Int e rn at ion a l Re l ati ons Club, h eade d b y Mark Levine , at pr ese nt nur~b ers between thh >t y -five and fo rt y m embers . Its fu1;1~t i o n · on camp u s is: to provide a f o rum in which students tnay express or h ea r vi e ws on int e rnati o n a l a ff a ir s) to pro v id e for eig n a nd Americ an s t~:~d e nts w i th t h e oppor t unit y of ex changin g id e as j a nd to bring oil . cam pu s , s peake r s who a1·e promin e n t in int e rn ationa l affairs. Coac h F l oo d, pilotin g the Pla n s f or th i s y ea r are st ill mostly tentatiV e . How e ver, thel)e Dut c h men for t h e sec ond year , . will b e a reception for fo11eign an d in terested American st ud e nts in expects a n o vera ll im prove m ent Ha l e House October 3rd. Futur e p l ans in vo l ve a seminar on Kas hmir ove r l as t y ear's t ea m. Her e's : an d o n e on Afri ca n Aff a ir s . In a dditi o n , the club hop es t() e n gage how the 1965 va rsity football : two· e~ cell e nt s p ea k ers on ~h !'l So vi e t Forei g n Po li _cy: . Professor t e am s i ze s u p: : F er d enc k L. Sch uman o f Wtlliams , and Profssor Z b1 g m ewk Br ze- ' z in s k i of Co l omb ia. Off e n s ive Li n e - Basica lly in ex- · Th e r e will a l s o b e a me et in g of th e c lu b a n<) a ll int e r este d stu- per.i e nc e d; s tron gest spot i s prob - ' d e nt s at 4 : 3 0 , Sep te mb e r 28, in 3 0 5 Ba il e y Ha ll. · \- \ % Piles i Q the p roce ss o f bein g dri ve n for on e of t h e iibr ary sate llit e buildin g s. Th e new co n s t-ruction is plann e d to be co mplet e d and oc~ cupie d · by 196 7 . The c o st of t h e n e w buildin gs and th e n e w do:rmi'- ab l y Doug Hor a n a t ou tside Pre-Law Society tackl e. Condition : w eaker t h an Th e primary purpo se of the Pre - L a w Society, l as t y ea r. · ance of Steve Yohay , is to a dvi se prospective l a w und ~l ' the gu id- tori es will tota l 6 .8 million dollars with 3 million dollars b e in g lo aned st ud e nt ~ o n ad - to the co ll ege by t h e gover nm ent. T h e 2 .3 mill i on doll ar s at e llite (Continu e d on Page 6, Columrt 1 ) · Continued on Page 5 , C ol. 1 ' · buidin gs were m a d e po ss ible b y g i f ts fro m t h e alumni.

2 Ointtrnr Publinhed Friday• during the sobool year by the Student Body of Unlon College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional AdvertiBiM' Bepresentatlve: National Advertising Senlce. Inc .. College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Ottlce, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company. 5 02 Broadway. Entered In the Sche- nectady Post Office aa Second Claso Mail Matter. Subscription 1•5c a copy: U a year dellvered anyWhere In the United States. SENIOR BOARD BARRY NEWMAN '67.. .. . _ .... 346-99:.9 .... .. ...... I•:ultor-ln-Ch!ef • JEFFREY S'PECTOH. ?66 ................... 377-9884 ...... -Business Manager I RICHARD SIFTON '66.. . . ... 346-9730 .......................... , J;ianag!ng Editor MABK KASOW!TZ '61 ................................................................................. New:s Editor ROBERT STOLZBERG '67 .................................................................. Feature Editor ANDY COLR '67.. ................................................................................. .Sports· Editor PAUL SHERWIN '67 ........................................................................ Uterary Editor . ARNOLD KATZ '66..... .. ................................................ Consulting Editor MATTHEW KATZ '67 ................................................................................... Page E<litor HENRY l•'ERUUSQN '50..................................... .... . Faculty AdVIsor ,J\\~IOR BOARD .:\Iorty Knmzan '6·S ....... Assi~tant !\t\WS E<litor :\Iart~· ~trn~bt>rg '6S... . . ..... ·······--··· ..................... Assol'iat~ ~t'W:,j EOitor Donald Schwartz '67.. ...................................................... A!'s!stant L!tera1-y Editor. Robert Rosenthal '67....... . .................................. Subscription Manager Joseph ~hat•t~;~r • 67 .. .. . . . . ................... National Advertising Man~tger Steven AI,koff • 67.. ................................................................. C!rcu!Mion Manager . 'Villiam Lasnik '68 ........... ····-·······-···· ·····--·······- .................... Assodate News Editor Kenneth Eousquet '68 ................................................................ Photography Editor High Cost Of U. C. Seals Two years ago the editor of Concordiensis opened the year by becoming outraged at inordinately high bookstore prices. This year students were pleasantly surprised by a change for the better, actuated by President Martin. Costs of all texts have been redu.ced, and needless profits elim- inated. Such an advance should be followed by still more progress in an attempt to transform the bookstore from a dealer in anything fr:om Mars Bars and Right Guard to arrays of coats, sweatshirts and ash trays, all mono- grammed with the official Union College seal in brilliant, washable Garnet and dirty white. A bookstore ought to sell books and school supplies. The shelves now occupied by sundries available at any drugstore are no concern of an establishment designed to facilitate the intellectual demands of a college community. Present space could accommodate nearly double the num- ber of books, and with some degree of economy, even more material would find a place. The store, in addition, could deal in second hand texts and paperbacks, used sparingly by students here, and then A Savage Study Of Modern Malaise By Pail! Sherwin After the publication of only three novels, John Barth is being considered one of the most exciting and promising writer's of our generation. In End Of The Road he tells a \V·itty, SaVagely clinical tale whose principal character Jacob Ho1·ner, much like Donleavy's Sebastian Dangerfield in The Ginger .Man, re.presents one of the most grotesque extremes of the anti-hero to be encountered in modern fiction. It is a pbo1osophieal novel - its theme is that of the total inhibi- tion that comes to men when no one course of action seems, in a world without absolutes, more meaning- ful than another - but this is presented in high comir style. Nullity and Immobility Jacob Homer is not real: that is to say that although he had a body just as everyone else does, he has no \genuineness\ as an in- dividual simply because there are so many mutually exclusive Jacob Horners lodging within his physical person that is impossible to determine exactly who he is. The structural axis, then, of End Of The Road, is the age-old motif of the quest :for a sui'table identity. It becomes apparent that any attempt to be a$ oneself in the social milieu th11t Mr. Barth has seen fit. to damn 'unequivocably throughout the novel i:s indeed difficult, or even absurd. if Jacob Horner, as a character, is illusive to the reader. ihe is illusive to himself as well. What does one do when encountered with one's own non- entity? - Jaco-b, one day, didn't wind himself up, and, hence, his individual energy was transformed into matter, by clumce (because this transmogrification was never plan- ned by Jacob), in the waiting room of Baltimore's Penn Sta- tion. He was suffering from a disease (which was more like a dull, persistent malaise) which we shall call immobility, a kind of mental and physical paralysis acquired when one can see no 1·eason to perform any action at all (whether it be ea.ting, urinating, or committing suicide). It didn't help to sing, \Pepsi-Cola hits the spot, it's got twelve ounces, tha.t's a lot.\ As the sun struck through the grimy station windows the next morning, Jacob is startled out of his trance by a bald, Nego quack who brings him to his se- clu.de<l \rest farm\ in the country. The doctor (who pre- ferred to remain anonymous) instructs Jacob to invent him- self, a lesson in Mytho-therapy. He does this as a teache1• of prescriptive grammar (syntax is supposed to give him precision in life) at Wicomico State Teachers' College. Here, he meets Joe and Rennie Morgan, a young pair also seek- ing :i<lentity. Unlike Horner, Joe knows exactly who he is: he has made it his life's pu1-pose to become coherent in all his thoughts and actions. He is a Rational Man and his wife is a doubtful Rational Woman and their marriage is a more doubtful Rational Marriage. Rennie's doubts are manured, -out o1' pure idleness, by the ineffable Horner, who, at length, goes to bed with he1· without knowing why or even particu- larly- wanting to. (Continued on Page 3) Campus Calendar Friday. September 24, 1965- '7 & 9 p.m., Film Series, Jules & Jim, EE22 Saturday. September 25, 1965- 1:30 p.m., Football, Union vs. St. Lawrence, Alexander Field Tuesday, Septembel' 28, 1965- '7 :00 p.m., IFC Meeting, Hale House Student Lounge 7:30 p.m., Philomathean Debating Society Meeting Satu.rday, October 2, 1965- 10:00 a.m., Inauguration of Dr. Harold Martin, Mem<lrial Chapel 2:30 a.m., Conference: Educators and Public Service, Me- morial Chapel 4 :30-6:00-Reception, Hale House 2 ::lO p.m., Soccer; Union vs. Hamilton, Daley Field returned for resale at variously reduced rates depending on .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ condition. This practice is common at other schools, but for no apparent reason it has been confined to the black market at Union. These proposals require discussion and cooperation from all elements of the college in order to reach fruition. The reactions of students and faculty are welcomed in order to determine the degree of acceptance and the extent of need for a potentially rich source of academic materials. Show Business The mere mention of \Lectures and Concerts\ to an average student here can set him off to fidgeting with his shoe-laces, squirming in his seat, pulling at his collar and softly whimpering at the memory of many a mortifying speech he has somehow survived in Memorial Chapel. Even while frantically searching for that convocation card he knows he must have gotten, or tenderly pasting his cache on a sheet of note paper, it seems unlikely that he may, for an instant, reflect on some lasting benefit all the effort of tieing five ties has afforded him. A probable explanation for this eternally disgruntled attitude toward big rooms with hard wooden benches is that students go to convocations to be entertained. They want to see a show and the intellectuals who come here to take advantage of a purportedly intellectual audience often do not meet Union's high professorial standards for win- ning wit and charm. The purpose of these speeches, however, is not to steal business from the local movies. The Lectures and Con- certs Committee, in cooperation with the Student Council, prepares a program that will supplement the student's academic education. As such, those who attend the lec- tures should go prepared to learn rather than to be amused. The schedule for this year is uniquely enticing, but the time and money spent is likely to be wasted if stu· dents refuse to take more than a grudging interest in their personal edification outside the classroom. 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PRIEMISES CAMPUS CLEANERS Opposite Union College NOTT STREET LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food ,. 1125 BARREnT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizxling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar T, Friday, September 24, 1965 Letters to ,the Editor S C Prexy Outli~nes Future Plans To the Editor: I would like to take this opportunity to outline three of the major projects tha-t will come before the Student Coun- cil thi'S year. The size and status of the foreign students programs have been declining in recent years. Neither Union nor foreign students have benefitted fully from the tremendous educational opportunities offered by a good program. Im- mediate and long range plans to improve this situation are now under considera:tion. Working in conjunction with the IRC and Past Union exchange students we hope to offer for- eign students a tnore integ-rated position in campus affairs. This will be accomplished through a buddy system under which a Union student vn]l act as personal advisor to a for- eign student. We hope to increase foreign student-faculty- Uni-on student interaction through a . series of Sunday brunches and receptions in Hale House. We will investigate the possibility of a COH'Imunity club for interested towns- people which can provide an enjoyable and educational ex- perience for the non-American student. An improvement in the housing situation is appropriate and one suggestion has been the establishment of an inte!'llational House in a wing ef one of the college dormitories. Other ideas are welcome at thts time. A student union has been a pet project for past Coun- cils and now the realization of this is imminent. The student body has been given the oppor·tunity to partici:gate in the planning of such a building and we will do this tbrough the Campus and Plant Committee. Several Council members and other representatives of the student body will be meet- ing with . President Martin, Dean Lockwood and architects to formulate concrete ideas on what should be included in such a structure, which is now high on the priority list. This is no<t merely a hope, it is on the drawing boards and will be complete<;! in the not-too-far-distant future. In order to increase the effectiveness of student govern- ment at Union, we are undertaking a study of the present structure in relation to other forms of student government across the country. If it should appear in the be'st interest of the college, we will consider complete revamping of the system as it now stands. If we students are to assume greater responsibility in college affairs and in managemenrt; of student affairs we must stt·ive for as efficient a govern- ing body as possible. As the year goes on, I hope that an increasing number of students will assume an active role in stl.Ident govern- ment. President Martin has offered us greater responsi- bility and authority in the workings of the college and it is up to each of U>', personally, to assume this responsibility. If we fail now, we can blame only ourselves. Sincerely, Jeff Ratner S. C. President Mastermind world all airs Read The New York Times \'f i. '· 1.' ' ,..., • r • • r ,C) Frida~ Wi that betw and j elimi dras1 speci and J ed to terni meilt fuse activ must -;o Di ularl fOl'tt of tli natic clam The 1946 dere< elimi therr. othe1 lead. zine f.ratE diser thes< \gen ·el' Thre nam' Delt have M spriJ .; penc shor stud that the· red elim inat< tuti< unti BJ ousl~ ley 1 ' been been ony's of Y< \' calle buzz the cam1 sun feel abou an u clehy .t. to d Phy'-' agaii you'-1 asleE • is. I once and and thin! they day, ' • spri1 strill with .\I all p we 1 (Thl on, · feSSI n COUl' vie\V be r and ~\ stud - Have The Times delivered every morning at low college rates. II 111- For service, get in touch with: ROBERT A. SEEFRIED BETA THETA PI ,~ '\ 21 Union Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Phone: FR 4-1771 ~ 14 .. ? '.1'

1965 ree of Coun- n nor . Im- are the for- under a for- unday ex- in has wing Coun- tudent in the the meet- ded in This be of the it is es li Friday, September 2~ 1965 3 ~ ' :J ,{'j COLLEGE URGED TO ACT ON DISCRIMINATION I} /, • 1:, .... Jlo :~ !( ll I !'~: !• ii ,. t\ .\ .. ,..; • • • By Robert Stolzberg Williams College has proved ' that there is no intrinsic link between a small men's college and fraternitie·s. Its decision to elimi:nate fraternities was a drastic one, one tailored to 'i·ts specific requirements and needs and not to be merely trans·port- ed to ether schools. Yet, if fJ•a- ternities at Union become detri- mental to the coHege, and re- fuse to change their offending activities, disciplinary action must be taken. '?' Discrimination is one partic- ularly offensive practice. It has, fortunately, been declining. As of the late thirties, most majm· nationals had discriminatory dauses ·of some kind or other. The major blow came to this in 1946 when Amherst Colleg-e or- dered its thirteen chapters to eliminate either thei.r bias or themselves. By 1964, over ]25 other schools had followed its lead. According to Time Maga- zine of June 25, 1965 only four fraternities have stHl retained discriminatory clauses, although these are usually in the form of \gentleman's :agreements\ rath~ er than overt .prohibitions. Three of the four fratemities named, Sigma Chi, Phi Gamma Delta, and Phi Delta Theta, have chapters at Union. .; ~1 Bias at Stanf()rd Matters came t() a head last spring when Sigma Chi :slls- pended its Stanford chapt&' shortly after it pledged aN egl'O student. The national claimed that it had nothing to do with the pledging; the chapter aver- red that it did. Sigma Chi had eliminated aU overtly discrim- inatory clauses from its consti- tution in 1961, but it was not until June of this year, after Questions: Stanford had been suspended, that it removed pledge fol\ms which included picturefl and other information which could be used to determine the r2ce of the ind,ividual. With the re- moval of these forms it ap:pear·.s that the national has no way- o-f enforcing any sort of racial re- strictions on the chapters; if, indeed, it wanted to. Dave Kas- per, president of the Union chapter, stated that he feltt:hat \any chapter should have the right to pledge anyone they want. This ap,pears to be the case here. Acceptability Phi Gamma Delta is a highl:y secretive fraternity, and its president, Bob Ebert, refused to divulge the constitu:tionai l'e- quirements for membership. There is a strong evidence t:ha t it requires \personal comp:ati- bility to all.\ It specifically pro- hibits discrimination due to race, coior, or religion. So far as this reporter has been a:ble to determine, the Union ch.ap· ter h.as not been disci·iminator·:y in any way. Phi Delta Theta is well- known to have a \social accepta- bility\ dause in its eonstitution. It has in the past suspended chapters on the basis ·Of pl'edg- ing socially undesirable men, although when the last instance of this occurred is not known to me. All indications lead me to believe that the frater:nity administration is trying to elim- inate the'se relics of its past. The Union cha,pter has been one of the leaders in this drivE. Nevertheless, if recent trends in the fraternity continue, it will not rid itself of these claus- es for several years. Thus, the problem at Union centem on .-1- the Phi Delt house. Consider- ing the effort its members h!j;f.(e taken, it i's unfortunate that., it must bear any administrative action necessary to rectify the situation. Nevertheless, in join- ing an o1·ganization with thesr; clauses, they accepted them and must bear the consequences. The radical solution would be to immediately withd1·aw the fra- ternity's charter. And it would solve the problem. Yet I feel that thi's would be a drastic so- lution, much stronger than the situation w:arrants. As Richard Sifton, Phi Delt president,. stat- ed in an interview, \One should 'be awa1·c of the significant cen- tribution which the fraternity system has made at all levels of American life. It would be a mistake to judge fratei'nities solely on these relics of the past which are now alien to the mainstream of modern intel- lectmvl attitudes.\ Rut while this is so, these relics must be e'limina ted, preferably without force. But if coercion is neces- sary, then the college must ap- ply it. Union College should go on record now, officially, that unless the national amends Its constitution and eliminates the discrimi-natory clauses as per· tains to the Union chapter, then disciplinary action will be tak- en. This action could be refus· ing to allow the chapter to rush in the fall, forcing the chapter to withdraw from the national, or force the national to with- draw its charter. An action of this kind will act as an impetu.s to the national to take final ac- tion quickly, rather than letting the matter drift slowly to its eventual conclusion. \Religious\ Fraternities Before concluding, there is anothe1· fo1·m of fraternity practice which must also be looked into. This is the case of the two fraternities, Phi Sigma Delta and Phi Epsilon Pi which draw their membership almost exclusively from the members of one faith. Administratively, this i's an extremely difficult matter to deal with, as it is not the product of institutionalized practice. Rather, this situation has \just happened.\ Obvious- ly, simple administrative decree is not the proper solution for .this situation. Nevertheless, the college community as well as these two chapte1·s should ques- timl themselves as to why this problem arose and look for its solution. Jazz: Draft Note All students over 18 years of age who wish a student defer- ment should report to Room #1 in the Administration Building to request that a #109 form be sent to their local board. A sludent deferment is for a school year and must be renewed each falL In order to qualify for this 2•S deferment, a student must be a degree candidate, in good stand- ing, and carrying at least 12 credit hours of work. Sherwin. • • (Continued from Page 2) End of the Road is a state- lent of classical pessimism: Na- ure is the enemy of Reason. rake just wanders about like a oltergeist, incapable of choice, ut sporting mischief: he is a •::~tura:l force for disorder and isaster. Mr. Barth suggests ~at reality is unknowable and hat any attempt to impose an •rder en the cosmos (or on daily 'fe) is doomed. In a world with- ut hope man is reduced to an •ating, secreting, excreting and ·opula>ting automotion. It seems, nfortunately, that the author's .ense of futility comes more 'rom literature than from life. Bawdy and Ironic End of -the Road is bawdy in :J.anner, cleverly ironic in detail; nd herein lies Hs value as a .piece of literature. His prose is supple, swift and fluent, an endless cascade of witicisms, jibes and paradoxes, all contrib- uting to an amaz.ingly detached view of the C()medie humaine. The rather flat secondary char- acters are saved only by the out- side influence of the author's in- telligence revealed in extremely entertaining debate. The metaphysical limitations ·of this novel make it a disap- pointing follow up to Mr. Barth's The Sot-Weed Factory, an elab- orate pastiche of an early eigh- teenth-century picaresque. How- ever, its exurberant prose recom- mends it highly. End of the Road and other books by Mr. Barth may be found in the book store. :On The Future The Other Music (t\ • By Rteve Granget• By now, if you have not glori- ously welcomed the Mohawk Val- • ley mornings - that is, haven't ' been pile-driven out or bed, or been clanged awake by St. Anth- ony's churchbells, been blasted out of your sleep by what's so aptly \OJ called an alarm clock (electric buzzzz type) - you're deaf. If the glow that settles all over campus about an hour after the sun comes up doesn't make you feel warm and m.oist - sloshing about in a tie and jacket or only an undershht - you're probably dehydrated. And if the Prof. has .1-. to decide between an inaudible Physics recitation (the pile-drivel' again) or a stuffy, hot room - you're most likely going to fall asleep no matter what the clloice • is. But, as an elderly philos<lpher once said, \Time the Weather and the Builder's Union are deep 1 and mysterious things, sacred things left untampered with lest they halt in their na;tural cycle: day, night, day, night •• , winter, ' , spring, summer, autumn ••. 1vork, strike, work, strike . . .\ Tamper with the unknown and we shall all perish; but leave things be and There comes a point in every jazz buff'El pur- suit of the music he loves that throws a cold, wet blanket over his enthusiasm. It is when he real- izes that a majority of the people in this coun- try know or care little about what is perhaps one of the most creative examples of Americana - the music known as \jazz.\ After a brief period of lamentation he is resigned to remain a member of that small group of people he likes to refer to as the \elite.\ The people who dig jazz. It still remain's for him, nonetheless, a puz- zling point why Americans as a nationality do not like jazz. It is a music which, like the Amer- ican people themselves, is a result of a blend- ing and mixing process of varying cultures and backgrounds. Moreover, jazz, at its best, is a highly creative and improvisory music, and these qualities of creativity and improvisation are fre- (]uently ascribed to Americans. Why then has the audience for this type of music diminished to the point \vhere jazz critics fear its eventual de.nbe? Too :\luch Music A sound answer would certainly have to in- clude a p-sychological, sociological and economic analysis of Americans from the Civil War to the present, but one briefer suggestion might be offered. We Americans have too much music. At the flick of a wrist, on any three dollar crystal radio, some type of music may be had. Through- out the country, night and day, hundreds of·radio ' stations are mass feeding Americans music which I m most cases should caus<! the listener to suffer .\1 we shall have .... PROGRESS! (Thank you, G.E.) I from some type of auditory indigestion. What enables this so-called \popular\ music to survive . are the masses of gullible people who feel that . ~~~~~~§~~~E~~~~:~~~-~~~~~~--J anything a disc jockey deems worthy of playing ~ _ '\ is worthy of listening to. Change for the Better? see what happens, but one can only guess about It is unfortunately true that many students Seriously though, progress is obviously going on, things are being built, and at least one pro- fessor who had been growing more and more dis- to couraged in recent years is now taking brigrtl.ter view. To him the proposed new curriculum could be more than simply reshuffling of the calendar and i's, in any case, a boost out of a rut, both for students and teachers . ..; .. It will be interesting, perhaps gratifying, to the situa.tion. Although the general plans have fall into thls group. While at college we le~J,rn been outlined not many details have been released how to write and speak more clearly and to think ... what dep.at·tments will occcupy the new class more intelligently, but we rarely put ourselves in buildings, vvhat plans _ if any _ for anything a position to learn how to listen. This series of like a StudEni Union . • . articles on jazz is intended then for the student Eut maybe these questions are being asked who hasn't bl'en listening. It will function largely too ~oon. maybe it is too early now to have set ail an informal guide to the world of jazz and up any \.priority Jist,\ though with change so roncern itself primarily with the music-its evolu- near surely somebody has an inkling of what is t:on, history and structure and with the men who going 011 _ played it. Product of the Negro THE STAFF OF CONCORDIENSIS EXTENDS ITS :BEST WISHES '1'0 FRANK CHESKY ON ms RE'l'IREME:NT AFTER TffiRTY-FIVE Although jazz is one sense defies definition, it can be described as the music of the American Negro. He created it, he wa·s the first to play it, and his own history in this country reflects its growth. When he was brought to these shores from Africa, he brought with him the stimulating YEARS' WORK PRINTING TillS PAPER FOR THE STUDENTS OF UNION. I I By Anth()ny Bucca rhythms of his native songs and chants. When he began to sing in English, he tried to ada;pt t~e words of hi's new language to conform Wlth hls traditional rhythms. This resulted. in a tendency on his pa1•t to slur the .words ~f hu~ song. ~ore­ over he continued to vtbrate hrs vmce as hts an- cest~rs had done and the result of these two tech- niques produced' a sound which was peculiar to the American Negro. Techniques Not Classical When he finally gained access to musical in- struments he trie.d to play as he had always sung. Therefore' he tended to slide or \slur\ from, one note to another, and he caused his instrument to vibrate. These techniques differed sharply with the methods used by classical musicians. In Ell;- ropean music the idea is to play each note cleanly and fully rather than to slide one note into an- other. Moreover, in classical music the phenom- enon of vibrato, ie. the sound from a _vibTati?-g instrument, is limited to only the strmged m- struments. The'se two qualities are so important to jazz that one description of. t~is music ~ay be that it is the result of the mus1CJan attemptmg to play the same way the Americ~n Negro sang. The sounds of the instruments were actually con- ceived to be extensions of the sounds of the hu- man voice. For an illustration of this technique just to listen to the raspy vocal stylings of Louis Armstrong and then compare them to the sounds he makes with his trumpet. These are but two qualities of jazz which causes it to sound so radi<;ally different from tra- ditional European music. In future columns these and other characteristics of jaz.z will be examined more closely and an attempt will be made to ex- plain exactly how the jazz musician uses them in his performance. WRUC to Rise It is very encouraging to the Union College jazz fan that 'OUr radio station, WRUC, will make an attempt to rise above the mediocre rock and roll progTamming which union students seem to like,, Last year an attempt was made to intro- duce jazz to the students, but somewhere along the line the program whimpered and died. Every- one seems to agree that the problem was that the audience was not receptive enough to this pr{)- gram to encourage its continuance. This year WRUC is planning to hold a series of jazz forums in which students interested in jazz will have the opportunity to discuss and expla,in the mu'Sic and to play records illustrating their discussions. A program of this nature will certainly be an indi- cation of the good intentions of the WRUC man- agers who, unfortunately, must too often con- cede to \popular\ taste EASTERN AVE. PIZZERIA I FERRO HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER BASSWEJUNS I I PHARMACY For Men 8·60 EASTERN AVE. 1632 UNION STREET 57.5 N,ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 WE DELIVER All Sizes Schenectady, N. Y. 346-4238 JR. BOOTERY FR 7-0510 Phone 393-0870 for the Finest PIZZA TRAVEL - CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND 147 Jay St. FR 4-7717 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE 10% off for Unoin Students! AIR e SEA e RAIL • CHARTER BUS ...,. .............................. ~~

4 Maj. Robert Robinson Killed In Air Crash lA Cou~se Moves Downstate Friday, September 24, 1965 P ,._.,S T.naug · Dr. Norman B. Johnson will ti·onal Association, and the .&m- , lT ·t;;. • .1 ~ · .· . • • • • deliver the benediction, and the erican Li):n,ary Association. recessional will follow. Fmity-rt:hre·e member:;; of the Continued from Page 1 There will be a luncheon for Alumni Council will attend the The Brass Choir will play the delegates in the Field House im- ceremonies. Their dates of grad- processional' into the chapel. Prof. meqiately following the program nation l'ange from 1901 to 1964. William c . .Stone, Marshall of the in Memorial Chapel. Members of the Delphic Saci- CoBege, wiltl deliver the opening . Ambassador Moderator , ?ty, a student service orga:niza- . remai'ks. The Rev. J. Dean Dyk- tion, will act as ushers during Union CoUege will inaugurate stra, minister o.f the First Re- At 2:30 P.M., there will be a the Chapel program. They will d t · I d t · 1 fo:>-med C\\ul'Ch of Sc'-enectady panel discussion tn Memorial also attend the luncheon in the a gra ua e p1·ogran1 m n us r1a · ' 11 u Ch , ' Ed · · · · · · th p h wiH give the invecatrl:on. ape\ on ' ucators and Public Fie'd House. Members of the Admimstration m e oug - · Service.\ The moderator will bP A.mold Air Society will direct ~ keepsie-Kingston area. The pro- M MCbaJd-rmaBn Spetaksh . The Hon. John S. Badeau, Class traffic during the day, and the gram, which will s·ta:rt in Febru- r. · •ea e rune. ' c mrman of 1924, farmer United States Glee C1ub will sing during the ary of 1966, will use the facili- of the Board of Trustees, wm Ambassador to the United Arab Shapel program. Mernori~1 se1·vices have been conducted for Major Robert W. Robinson, former assistant pro- fessol.\' of Air Science, who was killed in a plane crash on June 24 near Hurlburt Air Force B~se, ·Florida. Major Robinson received full military burial hono1·s, and cel'emonies were· held in @klahoma City, Schenec- tady and Muskogee, Oklahoma.· Killed. in a routine training mtsslon. Major Robinson had volunteere-d fer combat duty and was sc:heduled to pi!ot Al-E fighter- bombers with the 1st Comroando Squadr-on of the Pa- cific Ah Command. He was as- signe<l to the 4420th Combat Support Group at Hurlburt Air Fo1·ee Base, for tra,ining. ties of Dutchess Community welcome the participants. For- Republic, alld Director of the Stone Carries Wand · College. Dr. Harold C. Martin, mal greetings wil'l be delivered ·Middle East Institute at Col urn-· Prof. Stone, Marshall of the ' President of Union 'College, an- by: Mt. Jeffrey Ratnel·, Presi- •hia University. The other mem- College, wiH carry a wand dull- nounced the plans last August rlent of the Student Council, hers of the panel wt''l be Chl'ef · · th · d :f f th d t M PhT E \ mg e process10n ma e rom 25. rom e stu en s; r. · 1 lp · Adebo and Drs. Barnett and the w:alking stick of the Rev. f t:h D. uc~scherer-, Class of 1 ~ 3 9 ami Goldm~n. D1'r•cl{ Romey.n. Rev. R·om· eyiJ .., The purpose o · e course is p e d t f the Alumm Coun ' to prepare college graduates for .r S'i en () · · · · ' . . -. There will be a reception for was the minis.tet• of the First Re. . .. ell, f.rom the alum.m of .the Col- delegates and the1'r spouses at formed Church of Schenectady ad:rninistrat1v.e pos.1mons and 1 p of Charles W Hunrtley higher managerial responsibility. Seeretary of the CounCJ! from ege, v · · · . · '14:30 P.M. in Hale House. This and was 1'nstrumental ·J·n found- Thus, the curriculum focuses on· . ' . · . · ' · will be the last official part of ing the CeHege in 1795. · ,' the ·the·oret'ca·l, 1 ~a•l..~r t·han vo- the faculty, The Hon. Spencer~· the inaugural ceremonies. Conference Open to Public ,. vn.... Ed~y, Class of 1918 and chair- ·r. h cational, aspects of industrial ad-· man of the Board of Governors Many Represented Both the luncheon. and t e re- A native of Oklahoma Cicty, Robinson received a bachelor of music d'eg-ree at the Eastman School <Jf Music. He has served as an Air Force officer since 1952. and achieved the rank of majol' last February. In addi- tion to serving in Jap~n and Eng·land, Robinson flew 48 c.om- bat nissions during the Korean miuistration. The cu.niculum is of Union University; Mr. J. N.( One hundred forty-six ~ele• ception are open only to holder.g • divided up iHto three majQr com- Wright, master of St. Salva tor's . 1 g.a!es from colle~es and umver- of tickets. The afternoon con- .. · ponents. The first concer.ns the College at the University of St. srt1es +n .the Umted S~ates and ference is open to the public. · mathematical arid quantitative Andrews, from Union's sister il:t- . abroad W'ill attend the maugura- conflict. MAJOR ROBINSON '69 Arrives; Adapts Easily :Major Robinson joined the staff of the A.ir Force Reserve Offi- With a total enrol'ment of 358 cers' Training Corps detachment Freshmen, the Class of 1969 at Union C{)Hege in 1962. Aside stands as one of the largest en- from. sening_ as assistant air tering classes at Union College professor, he managed the Dutch in many years. Out of approx- ·Pipers fo1· three years, and act~d imately 1,650 high school sen- as adViser to Kappa Alpha m iors who applied to Union, 762 1964-1965. were accepted. 1\{ajol' Robinson received a GeogJ'aphical!y, the freshmen mastet· oi science degree in the hail from twenty-one states, the UIJion College Graduate Evening District of Columbia and three Divisi()n. His graduate work in- foreign countries. F·orty per eluded a thesis, Strategic Decis· ~ent of the class resides outside iOllS., vthich deals with military of New York Sta·te. Represent- applications of game theory. ed are 269 schools, three-quarters Major Robinson is survived by of them public. his wife, the former Joreen Liberal Arts Gains Swift of Phoenix, Arizona, and One hundred sixty-six fresh- two c:llildren, Roberta, eleven, men have chosen to major in. lib- am! II awld, ten. eral arts fields. A breal{down Council. • • Comtinued from Page 1 John Becket·man, former St. Andre~·s exchange student, l~ais­ ed the problem of foreign stud- ents becoming integral parts of the college community. He fur- ther noted the declining number of H.E.L.P. students. The Stud- ent Council will work extensively on these problems this year. Conmittee Chairmen Announced P1·esident Ratner announced the f {)!lowing committee chair- manship·s: Student Life and Operations, Bob Dic'kman; Foreign Students, John Beckerman; Constitutional Revision, Ed Clark; Elections, :Sob Marshall; Campus and Plant, Ricltard Siers and Peter Dawson; Freshmen Advisory, Larry Lud- wi~ and .John Siefert; Activities, Stephen Walker; Public Rela- tions, Ri('hanl Sifton; Delegates to th,e Capital District Student Council, Bob Winner and John .Seifert. Ratner encouraged stud- ents to contact these chairmen in mder- to work in student govern- me.nt_. Following discussion on the formation of a book exchange, the development director for the col.lege, Stephen Holbrook show- ed slides which will be used in pull!i~ 1·elations film strips. of the other majors includes 18 in math, 9 in industrial admin- istration, 42 in pre-medical, 21 in both chemistry and mechani- cal engineering, 17 in chemical engineering and the 5-year pro- gram. Also, 22 have entered electrical engineering and 24 physics. Due to calendar changes this year, the freshman or-ientation period was shortened one day. Although this placed an increas- ed burden upon the bculty and administration involved, b(}th agreed that the freshmen adapt- ed readily. Orientation ended with the Green Mountain Col- lege mixer this past Saturday night. North College Crowded As a result of the present schedule of the building progranJ for the new dm'l1litories the freshmen are occupying all of the rooms in West, South (with the exception of the top floor) and North where they arE' tripled up in most of the rooms. This situation is expected to be al- leviated in the Fall of 1966, upon completion of the new dormitor- ies in the pasture. Freshmen are reminded of their class meeting on Tuesday September 28, at 11:30 in Mem- orial Chapel during which facul- ty advisors will be chosen, At- tendance at this meeting is re- quired of all freshmen. Down to Louis', let LIS go, Let the lager freely Yo:>w. ~oncepts and meth{)dS of busi- · stitutions. . tion. .The! will march in the . s:heech ness operations, including ac- After the formal greetings,· processlOn. m. or~er ?f the found- '.1::' , · • • • •· cGuntiiJg, statistics, and mana- Mr. Brunet will proceed with th:e mg of their mshtutw?s· ~t tl1e Continued from Page 1 gerial economics. The second installation and robing of Dr. head of the processJOn Will ~e concepts of loyalty toward ira- consists of a study of behavioral M·artin. The new president will the .delegates from .Oxford Um:- ternities as well as toward most sciences, among which are soc- then deliver his inaugural ad- vers1ty, founded durmg the 12th institutions. In relation to thes:e 1 iology, p.sychology and econom- dress. Century, and the University <:'f changes, the Prexy stated, \lf ics. The third component is a Honorary Degrees Awarded · St. An~reWs; founded in 1411. any organiZ'ation in a college study of realistic business prob- Trustee Samuel B. Forten- · Nel{t Wlll b~ the. delegates from does not steadily adopt it- lems, requiring both a knGwl- baugh, Class of 1923, will pre- Harvard U:myersJty and the Co- self to the expeotwt,iorts, talents, edge of the above subjects and sent the candidates for honorary lege of W1lham and ~ary.. At and interests of students, it rep- • original research. degrees. They are: His Excel- the end of .the process JOn .w1ll ;be idly loses its power of appeal and Ieney Chief Sim{)n 0. Adebo, Ni- repre.sen~atlves of th~ Umver&lty influence in their lives.\ He fur- Dr. Thimm Lists Functions gerian Ambassador to the Unit- .cf N1ger.w, founded m 1960, a_nd .ther stated, \I would say then, The Industrial Administration ed Nations; Dr. Vincent M. Bar- Fulton-Montgomery Commumty that if fraternities wish to ensure , program, the first graduate nett, .Jr., :President of Colgate College, f~p.nded m 1964. their future - here of elsewhere courses that Union offers off University; and Dr. Eric F. Gold- There w1ll also be 27 delegates -they must turn the unquestion- campus, has three functions ac- · m.an Jr. Rollins Professor of from such learned and profes- able virture latent in them where· cording to Dr. Alfred L. Thimm, Hist~ry ~t Princeton University sional. soci~~ies as the Phi ~eta they have already done 'so, to the program director and pro- and Special Consultant to Presi- Kappa Soe1ety, the American compensating the central life of fessor of Economics at Un- dent Johns<Jn. Dr. Martin will Association for the AdV'ancement the college with activities and ion. First is the servicA award the .degree-s. of Science, the National Educa- conduet that reinforce its aims.\ that it will give to the in- dustrial development of the Poughkeepsie area. In addition, the .program will strengthen the image of Union among industrial circles. Finally, the pr-ogram will allow Uni<Jn to employ more highly specialized professors at the undergraduate level, who will also be part-time instruc- tors in the Industrial Adminis- tration program. The program joins a similar program already fu'ilctinning in Schenectady. B()th take three years to complete on a part-<bime basis. The program in Schenec- tady may be completed in one year as a full time endeavor. The graduate program in Pough- keepsie has no full-time pro- gram. Buildings. • • Continued from Page 1 the intended schedule of repay- 1 ment of the loan with the rental ; income. Because of the construe- : tion strike, college officials feel · that only one of the dormitory 1 buildings will be ready for occu- i pancy by the Fall of 1966; the complex is scheduled to be com- pleted by January 1967. , Future building plans call for a I Student Union, a Science and j Engineering Centet•, a Fine Arts I Center, new administrative and athletic facilities and renovation of North College. Capable of speeds better than 2,000 mph, the YF -12A is the hottest aircraft around. Now Maj. Walter F. Dani~l, test pilot for the YF-12A, answers your questions about the world's fastest manned airplane and America's Aerospace Team. (Maj. Donie!, a test pilot since 1954, is a member of tlze Society of Experimental Test Pilots. He receiv~d a B.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering from tlre University of Oklahoma. In February 1962, l1e set world class time-to·cli\lb recortls in a T-38 jet trainer.) ... D'AMICO'S iiXACO SERVICE A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere Is the VF-UA the world's fastest m~ned aircraft? It certainly is. On May I of this year the Y'F-12A (formerly known as the A-ll) reclaimed the world absolute speed record from the USSR. It. was clocked at 2,062 mph over Edwards Air Force Base. Air Force officer. The new two-year Air Force · · ROTC program makes this method available tD men who have already completed a year or two of their college education. For college graduates, if you did not take advantage of ROTC, you can still get started through Air Force Officer Training School (OTS), a three-month course open to both men and women. • '¥ ' ROAD SERVICE NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. 1757 Van Vranken Ave. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER Phone FR 2-9767 For reservations phone FR .4-8917 f'P t '¥ ¥ i 'T t t T T t 't' t T T +TV f f f t f f f f f f f t t t Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ~iamonJ6 .•• Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 & 4 #,,!,. +.4 L 4 .L ,l ,l, ,L .l, ,L 4. At A f 'A 6 & 6 t j f 4 LA, 4 A 4 4 How big is the YF·12A? The exact dimensions of the YF-12A have not been released yet. But it's approximately 100 feet long, with about a 50-foot wingspan. That's half again as big as our present interceptors! Is the Air Force training many men as pilots these days? Yes, very definitely. In spite of all you hear about unmanned vehicles, the human pilot· is ~till very much in the picture. As a matter of fact, the Air Force pilot quota is on the ir1crease: What other kinds of jobs does the Air :Force offer? Since it's one of the world's foremost tej;iuiological organizations, the Air Force has plenty of openings for s~ientists and engineers. Ther~ are also many challenging and varied administrative-managerial positions. What do I have to do to become an Air Force officer? Air Force ROTC is the best way to get started as an Can I keep up my stpdies while I'm in the Air Force'! The Air Force encourages its men and women to continue their educations. For instance, you may qualify to study for a graduate degree during off- duty hours, with tqe Air Force paying a substantial part of the tuition. What kind of future do I have in the Air Force? A bright one. As we move further into the Aero- space Age, the Air Force is going to grow even more important. And you can grow with it! United States Air Force. ,, ------~----------l Hq USAF, 1 n Dept. SCP-59 I Box A, Randolph AFB, Texas 78148 Please send me more info~mation on 1 1 0 Air Force ROTC 0 Air Force OTS. Name __ .. _. Address; ______ _ I I I I. ~) City __ , I L!t~-------~.:_~-----1 ·~~ i H \ (f (•• •' '} Frida) been. dle· p1 the b quirer De2 on th while in Ro, ing - 81 A ( ( missic Ln·ing ~ enced be ab studer The ~weak lack o ever t of $1. terest, The enlisti ernme a pro 1 law st with 1 that 1 and t 4 school i;istinl from countJ est tc be el almos ThE Societ con, ~ meml terest itself tinct Ill liame name take ed: l Shoul the I1 of C1 ditior lege, < Johns and I first Iiams \' 30th. grOU] will I Siena v bany 16th. the I Willi. I ~ . Th form D -

1965 Friday., September 24, t 965 -~ .5 the Am- H I Nevv Deans Appointed ment which is not yet definite. posttii>ns of its membet•s. Last 'L9 Soi'f'.•d. r But more importantly, the Club year the club numbe1•ed about {I t..-'-'t;- of the the ~ of grad~ to 1964. Soci- organiza- during will in the s of the direct q and the the of the dun- from the Rev. Romeyn 1 First Re~ in found- 5. Public the re- bo holders con- .. public. • 1 fra- most to these , \lf a college it- talents, ts, it rap- ' and \ He fur- say then, to ensure , elsewhere where· so, to• life of and aims.\ I' ... Air Force '· to or two of raduates, if you can Training pen to both women to you may during off- substantial Air Force? the Aero· grow even it! I \ I I I I I I J ·0 I _____ )' ·~~ Continued from Page 1 I been. The Deans will also han- ' ,t• dle preliminary steps in devising the budgetary and pers()nnel re- .j quirements of the centers. Dean Allen's office is located ' on the first floor of Bailey Hall, while Dean Way can be reached· in Room 203 of the Physics Build- · ~g . Student ~ Acti'Vities (Continued from Page 1) • • • intends to instill in the members thh•ty-five active members. 'This an interest in politics and a ·de- year, President Phil French K • k O'll sire to pa1•ticipate in the politi- ho~es to raise interest by spon- ' JC S · cal process. This, we hope, will sormg at least one formal tam·- be accomplished through the N a- nament. A membership meeting · tiona! Young Democrats Con- wiH be announced soon far all This Saturday the Frosh SQc- ventian in New York and the those interested·. cer team will travel to Rochester. · Intercol1egiate Mock Senate in Coach Benson foresees this game · Albany. Tn Addition, the Un- Rad 10 • Cl.ubs as the toughest of the seas<Jn, ion Young Democrats al'e co- since the Union team has ·hosting a mock Gubernatorial w 2 uc is an informal organi- been working toget?ei.' for oiJ,ly Convention in March with the zation of students -interested in. a week. L~st years squad h.ad . will also co-host, throUgh the Po- amateur radio or electron. ics. an . . . . . . . -R, h- Siena Young Dems. The Y.D.'s I outstandmg record of 8 1 m The dub maintains a complete cludmg a .1-0 vr~tory over oc - litical Forum, various lectures station and workshop in Has- ester. Thts years freshl!lan soc- presented by experts in the po- . kins Laboratory- which is open cer team has the makmgs for litical field. to members at aJl times. Among another .successful season. . its activities this ye.ar, the club Al'l of . the freshmen playr!lg ,plans to transmit free messages: soccer. this faJ.l. have had priOr i'or. Union students on a regular experience,_ whrch, qoa~h Ben- Photography The Photographic Club aims bas 1 s starting this Monday, and son feel~, .rs a good mdicato.r of to stimulate interest in photog- also to install auxiliary equip- the quality of the team. Thirty- . raphy and to help in the devel-. ment to enable the sta.tion to one frosh regularly attend prnc- . opment of those who are inter-. serve as an emergency commun- tice, which is more than enough ., ested. ieations center. Interested stud- to give the team depth. The av- mission to ·law school, and to! · /~ h ents are invited to visit the sta- erage startel' has had at least bring on campus people experi-: ·\'~.:: Members of t e chlb are re- h f . b t th ' '''· ....... / \bl ~ th 'ct d tion or contact President Art · t ree years o experience, u · · e • enced 1'n legal ft'elds wh-o woul'd .· · sponsl e .cor e pr ures use d t h\ h \11 b t\ • · th c d' · d 1 Bauer. secon ·earn·, w IC wr su s r- be able to confer with th~se · · DEAN NEAL W. ALLEN DEAN liAR OLD E WAY m e oncor Iensis an a so 1 · th -~--------------· ='=.:..·-=· :.:':::.\':.:·:.:· ==--=·::_·_:_:_.::_:_·:__.sponsor campus photo contests. tute regulary, IS not new to e students. . . , . . The club maintains a completely WRUC sport either. One disadvantage The organization has been:·clubs of various women's schaols. mee.t~ngs wit~ guest speakers! m equipped darkroom which is al- : the team faces is the lack of prac- i weak in the past, because of a Of particula·r interest is the addrt~on to Its scheduled Brble. ways open for members. Those WRUC is one of the best known tice. The frosh puddle-jumpers lack of \sta.ble\ members. How-' joint-concert that the Glee Club !lleetmgs. On. Oct. 8-~0 .the Un- ·interested in photography should ·campus activities, as weH as one have worked together for only ever this year, a membership fee :is doing with Simmons at Christ- wn I~te1·· yarsl ty Chrr~tlan Fel-, contact President Ken Bousquet of the most active. a week, but have had a scrim- of $1.00 will be required of in- mas. This concert will be video- lowsh1p WI!I• take part m the In-. at 21-5 Richmond House. mage with the varsity team, terested students. taped and televised in Boston ter ~ Vars1ty area conference. With 120 members, the cam~ whioh was helpful in coordinat- The plans ~his year include the and locally. Meetings of the I.V.C.F. are on' I pus station aims to serve the ing the moves of the individuals enlisting of state and local gov- Led by Professor Wilson ·of the Tuesday nig-ht at 7:00 in Silli- Outing Club interest of Uniop students. This as a team. The schedule is rug- ernment of~icials. for spea:ke.rs, Music Department, the Glee Club man HaH, and are open to stud- year the station has planned ged, but confidence is running a progxam m whrch prospective. consists of about ten seniors . ents of all faiths. The Outing Club, under the completely revised programing, high. l la_w, s.tudents m_. ay visit. an. d spe_ ak fifteen J'uniors, fifteen sopho~. The Newman Club, under the. direction of Ted Malone,. finds physical plant. The cost of re- --------- th I 1 d f ld its pleasure in exploring and be- ·modelr\ng was t\'O thous d d l Wl • awyers m a sp~cia 1ze 1~ · mores, and twenty-five freshmen. dil•ection of Richard Hogan, \ · ' an ° - s that they may, be mterested m,; The music they perform ranges tries to pr<Jvide the Catholic coming acquainted with the out-. Iars paid by the Sltudent activity occer a d th t bl h t f 1 d doors. The main purpose of the tax, and five thousand earned by · · • • • n . e es. a . 1s m,?I? o .~ aw. from Union's college songs to stu ems with a religious and club is to introduce its members th \ t' · lf Th · p 6) 4 s~h~ol admlSSio~s . hbra!'y con-, extensive religious masses. cultural program. In the near e s\a wn 1tse • e statron (Continued from age . si.stmg . of admissiOns ht~r.atui•e · Last year's budget came to future, the Newman Club hopes ~ha:h~nt~~!~~~rs, and to sustain holds general meetings on one Kaye and Fuller are the co-cap- fiom .most_ l~w scho?ls 1~ the: about twenty-six hundred dol- to get together with the New- Monday each month and offers tains. cou.ntry. It rs of fUlther mter- lars, and the Glee Club hopes to man Clubs ·Of other schools, and With a hopeful $1,900 budget, oppoi'tunities for everyone inter- The freshman play a 1 PM est t~ ~ote ,that a student m.ay receive a larger mount this possibly have a mixer with Rus- the club has several worthwhile . ested. Students are invited to contest before the varsity game. bEl ehg1ble fo1· law school wrth year·. a sell Sage, Skidmore and Albany trips planned fot· the future. On v1sit the studios in Old Gym Ironically, Union's varsity captain I t 11 d b Hall. · last year, Gary BroW11, will coach a mos any co ege egree. The Dutch J?ipers, a small, se- State. Octo er 1-3, 700 students from the Rochester frosh. Philomatheans The Philomatheans Debating Soriety, led by H. Newell Ba- con, now have ten upper class , lect group of voices, h·as. always The Campus Religious Coun- 40 different Colleges, Union in- : been a favorite part of Union's cil, aside from being the coor- eluded, are having an outing at music program. Though not in dinator of the three religious Lake George. It is expected that existence right now, it is fore- gl'Dups, ·helps in several chari- the trip will be one of the high- seen that the \'Pipers\ will be tab!e activities. Under the ad- lights of the camping season. assembled by Professor Wilson visorship of Dr. N<Jrman John- Any students interested may €I membe1•s and about twenty in- terested freshmen. The debating itself is divided into two dis- this fall. !:!On, this g1·oup helps in such still sign up, activities as sending used books Also forecasted is an expand- tinct areas-tournament and par- Religious Clubs ovei·seas, and helping paint toys etl program with the Outing · for the local Fire Dept. Christ- Club of Skidm01~e. Hiking, ski- · mas drive. ing, and square-dancing are : Ill liamentary. The Varsity tour- The Hillel, Newman Club and nament debating this year will take up the the questi-on, R~solv- Inter-Varsity Christian Fellow- ed: Law Enforcement Agencies ships are the three religious or- Literary Idol Should Have Greater Freedom in ganizations of Union. Under the the Investigation and Prosecuti()n coordination of the Cam:pus Re- The Idol is the college liter- of Crime. It will meet its tl'a- ligious Council, these three ary quarterly. This magazine ditional opponents, Queens Col- groups provide the religious ac- also. sponsors a program of lee- lege, Georgetown University, tivities on campus. tures by the authors who speak , Johns Hopkins, Columbia, Siena, Hillel, undel' the leadership of at Union in conjunction with the and Dartmouth, in addition to its President Dennis Gordon, tries Student Council. fil·st match with Sir George Wil- to maintain the religious, social, Anyone interested in staff r c 11 and cultural activities of the work OI' in suomitting literary mms 0 ege on October 29 th and Jewish students. Friday night or artistic work should eontact h 3 oth. The Novice, or freshman services are held in Silliman Rod Tulloss in care of the Stud~ group (parliamen'iial'Y debating) Hall, and Sunday brunche·S will ent Activoities Office. Subscrip- will have its first match against be scheduled- 1 ·n the future. The t 1 'on t t fi s· s R . ra es are seven y- ve cents Iena, t. ose, R.P J., and Al- Hillel of Slddmore, R.P,I., and per issue or three dollars a year. . bMny State, here on October V 16th. Traditional opponents for Albany State will join Union in the Novice g 1 ·oup are Wesley!lln, a picnic, scheduled for Oct. 3. Williams and Hamilton. The Inter-Varsity Christian I y I · .. Singing Groups The Glee Club plans to per- form joint concerts with Glee Fellowship, with John Werely as president, tries b help Christian students to seek to learn more aoout their faith and promote it among other students on the campus. The club holds weekly ....-y 'i' f' '¥ T f 9 f t f f t f f f ,f i f f Y 9 f Y i '¥ 1 f I 1 T Y T 'T i\ f 'f' T i '¥ f Y ¥ f ¥ f • DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages II 8. 120 JAY STREET ...................... 4 ••••••••••••••••••• ,, •• 4 •• LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Young Dems The Ro-bert P. Patterson Young Democrat Club has two general aims for the college year 1965-1966. First, it will assist, as best it can, official Dem-ocratic Party ot·ganizations in the No- veomher elections, in informing the public on political matters and in g-eneral projects benefic~ ial to the college and commun- ity. These p1·ojects will include a Book Dl'ive, an attempt to set up Young Democrats Clubs at other area c()lleges, and an en- deavor in the Civil Rights move- SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOn ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts amon.e: the activities to be sched- uled. Membership to the club is granted to anyone that wishes to join an outing. Presiderut Ma- lone urges all students, especi- ally freshmen, to participate in the forthcoming events. Bridge Club The Bridge Club meetings, held every other Tuesday, afford members a chance iJo meet soci- ally with their professors while enjoying informal competition. The club plays duplicate bridge, and uses the duplicate system of ·scoring to indicate Have Your Watch Repaired Right! ••. Right Here! Bring it In and let our specialists look it over. Reliable service is our watchword. And for new beauty, re-style :your watch with a smart- .l(re/sler WATCHBAND Time Center Jewelers 428 State St. FR 4-0183 Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE WELCOME AGA:IN ~-.fEWEST LU,..CH 71;5 Albany Street Specializing: HOT DOGS WITH fAMOUS SAUCE DINNERS AND SANDWICHES TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921) Open 7 Days Per Week · 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. 2 or more SHIRTS • • • • • PANTS • • 49c SUITS • • 98c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE - FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Notional Bank For three Generations • I hose Who Know •. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAUitiCE B. WALTER Maurice B. Granbart & Sons '\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Deansgate's imported Scottish Shetland Jacket There has never been a fall when the sport coat was more in evidence .• , when natural shoulder tailoring was so important · •• , when. colorful plaids, stripes and herringbones were so popular ... for the Deansgate man. · 48.5o. :l1alt_,

·FRATERNITIES INVESTIGATED Page 3 Concordy Spor~s Dutchmen Use Air Attack; Soccer ''11'' Hitchcock, Hurlbut Return Kicks Off · ~ Tomonow Continued fro11t Page 1 Defensive Line- This line is much more experienced with a strong pair of tackle·s, Jimmy De- Nitta and Bob Marshall. Other standouts are ends Chris Cassels and Karl Schi·rm and guard F1·ank Fusick. Condition: improved ov- er last yea1·. Running - Leading g_rou~d gaine1' in 1964, Jimmy Ram1ch, IS hack, and Paul Woodell has been mon!d from tackle to fullback for backfield blocking. Al Hrdlicka adds depth to the running attack at fullback. Condition: Hopefu:Jly better depending on the line. Secondard defense-About the same as last year in experience, but faster. Condition: improved. Passing-All-time record pass- E-r Tom Hitchcock is hack with another year's experience. One of his leading pass receivers, Marc Hurlbut, caught 26 passes last year for four touchdowns. Sophomore receiYers are Jim. -yvn- liams and Sam DilL Cond1tron: Vastly improved. Kicking-Returnee Hurlbut, the sixth leading punter in the na- tion last season, avet•aged 42 yards per punt. Either Al Hrd- licka or Tony Maneen will do the place-kicking. Condition: im- proved over last year. Union will use a 5-3 defense and an unbalanced winged-T and 1 formation. The line is unbal- anced to the left with a split end. The backfield sets in a T fol·ma- tion and shifts to the winged-T. ~-;,s},._;;.,.?~i(o ·.?'1: ;\·3~~ -?. ~ .~f ~~tcr: ... ~ ... - t:- [j~lli:~:·. Garnet head coach Flood will direct the vat·sity against St. Lawrence tomorrow while quarterback Tom Hitchcick (12) calls the pl~ys. Bob Di:\'lichaele (54) is the offensiYe center and linebacker on defense. touchdown against the first string and one against the second. Union's assistant coaches are line cc.ach Art Lawrence and backfield coach Chris Schmid. Numerical Roster 11 McDonald 54 DeMichele, R. 12 Hitchcock 62 Maneen 13 Pizzica 65 Tinker 22 Roehm 66 Morgan 23 Sawyer 67 O'Han 25 Chizzonitti 68 Fusick Rally Tonight TIME: 7 P.M; Sharp, Friday PLACE: In front of Memorial Chapel Be there to meet and cheer the 1965 version of the Dutchmen Football Squad. St. Lawrence which dropped its first contest to Bates, 20-6, 26 Grady 31 D'Trapano 32 LaPorte 33 Clemons 34Walsh 35 Williams 69 Hay 70Male 71 Smith 72 Horan 73 DeNitto 74 Marshall Ring Will Highlight Cross Country Teatn 36 Utecht 76 Lovele\ 43 Hrdlicka 77 Cohen 44 Woodell 80 Cassels 45 Ramich 84 Dill Steve Roehm will play halfback for the Dutchmen here tomorrow. is an experienced team with five seniors and 20 juniors. The Lar- ries use a 5-2 Oklahoma defense and a winged-T (balanced line) offense. The offensive standouts for St. Lawrence are quarterback Jim Michaelson and fullback Jim Monaco. Michaelson also plays riefensiYe cornerback. The Dutchmen have been prac- ticing since Sep.t. 1, including tt·iple sessions until classes be- gan. They have been working out from 5 to 6 P.M. every night on the library field. \You always learn a lot\ from mistakes in scrimmages. The Union Dutchmen have had two chances; the first was Sept. 11 against Wesleyan University. The team then practiced both passing and control strategy. Laet Saturday the Garnet trav- eled to West Point where they made a good showing against the Army B team, losing by a 14-7 margin. The Dutchmen lost a 7-0 lead in the fourth quarter when the West Pointers scored one 51 Brennan 86 Hurlbut 52 Moore 88 Schirm 53 DeMichele, D. All-America Union went on to win the tour- nament with a 3-1 victory over Old Dominion, the defending champion and pre-tourney favor- ite. Crookes, playing first base in the game, collected one hit in four at bat, a second inning dou- ble. NEW WI'DE WALE CORDUROYS TAPERED IVY MODEL WHEAT LODEN Sizes 27 to 36 A 334 State Street BLACK DIAMANTE'S :njoy Our fine Home Cookec Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate o.n Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. TimE c~nt~ .. JEwelc;.-s YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME ' .:. \ : . . :,; .{. DROWN ST. LAWRENCE! 'fume Out: .. J j ;. , .' L- GetOffYour ... By Andy Colb • (· ··Trop: to tb mura ,.,lead~ PhU Sigl rating .,Follo> were Beta Delta Sigm~ <!Phi G Alpha Psi l Fra \a nee age J Depat ties ,,and t ricula ship, systet and n '\tmt C Wil were Pi, 1! ''1960. Cup year. the , •1years ent p ThE ents t•.the : port. Epsil< an ar lt w~ Sumn by tl: feren• ing. 'honor that Als astic fl.'Kapp Theta ter s mum six teE Index ester. also J <1.~0 2.4 ThE ship deere: dices; 'h.app. Delta Pi, I Delta Chi pha Upsil ~ It pas: and '·row Alf: T seaf ...,,,Ath ..r: at~ 196

