• Base- fo{)t- basket- Some- storm o take, sts and and 0. The tourna- lost. Law- 1907. to can- s relay fifth in com- their N.Y. last de- by the strong be the .. to gineer- the Oppor- ar1d lib- Career Officer. hen the pus. t the J'. '· C•ty I f1 Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 94- No. 12 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, .1965 PRICE 15 CENTS Davidson To Assume AAC Position; i ·.If ·r His Tenure Saw Extensive Growth l Union Grows In Population And ,~ ! Resources Since Post-War Era t By Barry Newman ' · The year 1946 is a point of departure for any consideration of ; l recent eve!lits. In that year the world began wriiing a new chapter II in its history - that of the postwar era. The depression had passed, k the war was over, and people were busy picking up the pieces left _, ' by these critical years and setting their sights on a more tranquil and progressive future. Union College, i.ts waBs, and the heads of its administrators, just a 'little less gray than they are today, was very much a .part of those changing times. Ol· ~· The World War cau·sed extensive upset in the operations of colleges throughout the United States. Men of draft age, who in this day would enjoy four uninterrupted years at a university were swept off to military service, leaving colleges very sparsely popu- 0 ~ lated. Union had. a few regular students, and .provided the base of ' operations for a large Naval training unit. 'The no1·mal academic I .program was confined tO' two years of elementary training. Nearly f ' all extracurricular activity had ceased, and almost none of the char- \ ~teri;std ics ofTUhnion 1 as _it fhathd tapp~redd betfodre .tdhle :valt'hw_ere stlii!l ... m ev1 ence. e a umm o a per10 no e sa. y m e1r pub - cation that Union was totally devoid of the many traditions and , l ancient practices that characterized it in their memories. L ~ '• Begin Again oi.' 0 Thus, in 1946, the aim of the college was to begin again - to repair the damages of war and reorient the college to peacetime activity. This job was. placed on the shoulders of the college's newly installed president, Carter Davidson. The task was not a simple one. Not only did the immediate damage of the war on the college require repair, but the many re- percussions of the postwar period created new emergency conditions. In contrast to the Freshman class of only 64 in 1945, the number of students em:·olling in 1946 was unprecedented in size. There were 306 students - 290 of whom were veterans. All the boys who had been unable to begin or finish their higher educations because of the war were now flocking back to colleges that were understaffed and without the needed facilities for coping with the large numbers. Nev- ertheless, Union, along with the other institutions, made efforts to admit as many as possible. As enrollment leaped to as many as 1500, temporary housing was constructed over the campus. Such buildings, of which some rickety remnants still decorate the campus, were built on the Nott Street field, and in the .pasture near North College. Seventy-eight students were living here with their wives and families. Temporary Units In 1947, the campus still covered by tempOl'ary units, the ad- ministration began to forsee a change in education that would take place in the next decade. Plans were already being ·offered for new campus construction in order to accommodate !ising numbers of people who would desire a college education. Steps were then taken to amend many of the curricular requirements of the college in order to improve the quality of general education on the campus. For the I first time, the entrance standards for all students were equalized. The college set yp the now familiar distribution requirements which I ask each student to take courses outside his major field. 1 1 The effect of the war eventually began to wear off, and the college began to concentrate in earnest on the problems of the futme. Freshmen ceased to be accepted in mid-year and. admis'sions were held down to classes below 300. The \ideal\ student body of the time was 1000. Competition for college admission had already heightened in I 1947 when there were 1,100 appliC'ations for a class of 288. During I the 1930's Union was capable of admitting any student graduating I in the upper half of his high school class with a·n average not below I 75 percent. By postwar times mogt of these would have been I eliminated in the first heat. Library Impl'oved I In 1948, the first efforts were made to improve the services of the library which had been housed in the Nott Memorial. In the library annex, a huilding since demolished, books were put within the reach of student study desks. This luxmy was. acclaimed by the student body, but even then plans were envisioned for construction of a modern library building to replace the cramped and ineffi- 1 (Continued on Page 5) ____ I I StudentBodyToEvaluate I I Courses In Concordy Poll 1 DR. CARTER DAVIDSON Davidson Envisions Bright Union Future The following is written by President Carter Davidson When a president of a small I The College on its side must college is about to retire from do all it can to help in this pro- his post after nineteen years, cess. While Achilles Minerva he tries to achieve historical is an undergraduate, he should perspective on the changes that enjoy a continuing dialogue with have taken place since 1946 and 1 faculty and administl·ation on the present status of the Col- 1 ways in which college life can lege. In this frame of reference 1 be improved. Although a pure I present my evaluation of L'n- democracy may be impossibl~;, ion College to the undergradu- we certainly can strive for a ate stockholders in this 170- republican form of government, year-old corporation. with the allocation of responsi- No student should choose his bilities to trustees, administra- college carelessly, for his choice 1 tion, and faculty for the execu- commits him to an investment tive and judicial branches, and of $6,000 cash for tuition, $6,000 1 1 to the students for the legisla- for room and board and books, tive matters dealing with stud- and the foregoing of s.alary from ent life. Although faculty and a job for approximately four trustees must have the final say years--another $20,000-for a on admission, instruction, and grand total of $32,000. With requirements for a degree, the this large sum he is purchasing, students should express their let us say, 320 shares of stock opinions on all ·these matters, at a par value of $100 a. share since it it their education which in Union College. He knQws is being produced. The Student that the immediate cash divi- Council and student goverrument dends may be small, but he constitute one channel for this hopes that, like I.B.M. or Gen- expression of opinion, but not era! Motors or Texaco, this is the only one; the Concordiensis, going to be excellent growtlt Idol, Garnet, the Interfratern- stock, that will be worth $1,000 ity and Dormitory Councils, the a share by the year 2000. athletic teams, the dramatic and The value of his stock will musical and debating and special depend upon several variables- interest clubs all should be ( 1) the effort he puts into get- heard. And minority opinions ting the most out of the class- should not be neglected or the room instruction, the independ- spirit of democracy will be lost. ent study, the extra-curricubr Upon graduati{)n, the student On Monday night Union stud- Students will 'be asked to note activities, the relations with becomes a salesman for his col- ents will .bake part in a poll to their name, cla.ss and major plus other students, and the total lege education, and Union: should evaluate their courses. The poll their courses for the semesrter, atmosphere during his four or help him secure the employment was developed by Larry Horo- and the days and hours the course five years on campus; (2) the he desires, and follow his career witz, Edit~r-in-Chief of the Con· is offered. They will then rate use he makes of this education to help at every opportunity- cordiensis, and will be distributed the faculty member on his prep- in further graduate or profes- the College must be a lifetime by a ·Student Council committee aration for lecture and lecturing sional study, securing employ- service bureau to its alumni. headed by Steve Yohay, a repre- ability and the course on its gen- ment, and steady advance in his As the alumnus grows in years sentative of the Class of '67. The era! value. They will be rated on professJ.on or business-the rep- and ability, he will perhaps be t·esults will appear in the first a one to five scale. Published utation of Union College is recognized by election as an issue of the Concordiensis next results will dnclud·e an overall made by its alumni in· graduate alumni officer, perha.ps as a semeste~·· , mark resulting from the addition schools and in the business and member of the faculty (21 of . Foun~ Effective .;>f the three mtegories. This professional world, and this our faculty today ai·e alumni, Horowitz sa1d that _the purpose I method will allow not only eval- reputation helps set the market and 6 of our administrators), of the,course. evaluatiOn poll was uation of the courses, burt also value of Union stock; (3) the and eventually as a trustee (21 to help .students choose elective I will. a. llow. a course to be broken part he plays in the life of the of Union's -25 trustees are grad- courses. He state.d tha,t .studen~s down and evaluated by parts. College after graduation, as a uates of the College). In these could more .effectively p1ck thmr member of his class, of the local capacities he becomes a director peer's opinions than from the in- 1 Follow Instructions 1 alumni club, of the national of the corporation, and can do adequate catalogue descriptions. 1 alumni council, of the class ag- great things. A devoted trustee He emphasized that the intent of Horowi~z asked that the in- ents working for the annual can increase the marl;:et value University, where .similar poHs in the Coueordieusis unless the mencement. proud to recognize the ac-hieve- ·Davidson's Career At Union Accompanied National Prestige By Richard P. Sifton On February 1, President Davidson will assume his new position as President and full-time chief executive of the Association of American Colleges, an organization which represents 850 institu- tions of higher learning. During his nineteen year's of service to Vnion College, the .physical plant has been greatly expanded by the construct.ion of four new dormitories, with two more in the final stages of planning, the Alumni Memorial Field House, and Shaffer Library. Many other buildings, including South College, Nott Me- morial, and Old Gym Hall, have been extensively remodelled. Fac- ulty salaries, including benefits, have nearly tripled and the college endowment has increased sixfold. The curriculum has been enriched by the addition of A'sian studies, major field exams, honor pt·ogmms, and opportunities to study abroad. His personal achievements in the field of education, including the positions of .prestige which he ha~ occupied at the national, state, and local levels, have enhanced UnioJ?'S reputation in the worlds of business, government, and learn mg. :VIany ::-.rational Affiliations Dr. Davidson is currently Chairman of the BoaPd of Directors of the Association of American Colleges and has also served as Chairman of its CO'lilmission on College Finance. He has held the post of Chair- man of the Board of the Carnegie Foundation. For sixteen years he h3;s been a ~ember of the Committee on Relationships between Higher Education and the Federal Government, a part of the Ameri- cn Council of Education. He served from 1950 to 1953 a:s a member of the National Commission on Financing Higher Education, a l'e- search organization which has published nearly twelve books on the subject. As Vice President of the National Commission on Accredit- ing and as a member of the Commisl'lion on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, he has been active in the pursuit of high ::;tandards fur colleges throug!i•Jt the country. President Davidson founded and was the first Chairman of the · Independent College Funds of America. He has also been President I of the Association of Urban Universities and Chairman of the Board of the National Humanities Center. In New York State, he has held the positions of Chairman of the Empire State Foundation of Liberal Arts Colleges, a fund raising organization, and of President of the Association of Colleges and Universities of the State of New York. After World War II, he was Secretary to the Board of Trustees of the Association of Colleges of Upper New York, an organization which cared for veterans. He participated in a three-year survey of New York University in New York City and has been a member of the advisory council to the Commissioner of Higher Education for the state. Member of Local Boards In 1950, President Davidson was General Chairman for the 150th anniversary celebration of the City of Schenectady. Severa! years later he was chairman of a highly succes\sful Community Chest annual fund drive. He convened and served as the opening Chairman of the nominating convention for the S(;henectady City school board· 1 he was also the in.corporator and first treasurer of the Mohawk~ 1 Hudson Council on Educational Televisivn, which broadcasts on Ghan- I nel 17. He has been a member of the Board~ of Tnrstee::; of the Schenectady Savings Bank, the Hotel Van Curler, and the Industdal Development Gouncil. Toured Asia, Europe, and America In 1957, through a program sponsored by the Ford Foundation, 1 President Davidson travelled to Turkey and to the Near East on a I survey tour of colleges and universities. In the following year he went to Europe on a grant from the Rockefellet· Foundation in order to visit students who had previously studied at Union under the Higher Education for Lasting Peace program; upon his return, he submitted a report on the results of the tour to the Foundation. Representing the International Mass Education Movement of which he is a tru&tee, he visited Taiwan and the Philippines i'n 1960 in order to study the progress being made in farm villages. On his (Continued on Page 5) Union and Wesleyan Will Debate Sex Legislation Tonight at eight o'clock in Nottpart of the g-overnment. At the Memorial, the Union College 1 conclusion of the debate a count Philomathean Society will debate 1 will be made as to how the audi- members of the Wesleyan Uni- i ence is sitting, and the side with versity Debate Council on the the greatest number of members resolution, \That sexual reiati{)n>S will be the winner. between consenting adults should not be legislated against.\ Thi·s Union Opposing d~bate will not use the national Alon Jeffrey and Robert Stolz- intercollegiate debating forma.t, berg vdll represent Union as the but will be a parliamentary-style members of the loyal opposi.tion. debate. Speaking for the government will Audience Vital be Wesleyan debaters Larry In contrast to American Inter- Bagg and Carl Calendar. S.tolz- collegiate debate, which is rarely berg and Jeffrey have compiled held in front of an audience, par-: a!l undefeated se~son so f~n, win- liamentary-style debate depends nmg four. and l?smg n~ne ~n ).VIan- I a great deal on the presence, and I treal em· her th1s year m s1mllarly active participation, .of the audi- styled debate.s . 1 ence. The audience will be given The Philos plan an expanded 'I a chance to cross-examine and J schedule of parliamentary debates question the debaters on any issue in the coming months. At pres- raised in the debate. Heckling ent, these plans .include tourna- and booing by the audience will ments at Ithaca College and Me- be permitted, as long as it does Gill University. There is also . not completely obliterate the de-~ the. possibility of dual meets at haters' speeches. As the audi- Queens University and the Royal ence enters the house, they will Military Academy of Canada be instructed to .sit on the side both in Kingston, Ontario, and <Jf the government or the loyal Cornell University. opposition. The. government will The entire college community be in favor of the resolution, and and the general public is invited the poll is not to embarrass fac- structions be followed implicity. fund, of the admissions repre- of Union College stock more u1ty member.s. Horowitz cited Results will n'{)t be accepted if sentatives interviewing appli- than any other person~witness as precedents Trinity College, all categories are not completed. cants, of the reunions on cam- Frank Bailey, Walter Baker, Bennington College and Harvard The results will not be printed 1 1 pus in the fall and at com- Henry Schaffer. The College is were conducted and found to be returns exce€d 80% of the stud- (Continued on Page 5) useful and effective. ent body. \'----------------------------! the opposition will be against it. to attend tonight's debate. There Wesleyan University will take is no admission char~e.

'J • 2 Friday, January 8, 1965 .,, • Faculty Discusses Merits Of Honor System There has been continuing dis-! fore, soliciting individual student I ·cussion on campus about the eth- 1 opinion:s as to the merits of in-! ical standai·ds by which the stud- i stituting an honor pr()gram at · ents behave. Athough the Stud-~ Union. There will be a poll taken ent Council does not feel that at registration 011 January 31./ there is flagr. ant di~.·honesty dur-~·. Please. consider seriously the fol- 1 . htg examinations, there are cer- lowing articles and prior infor- f.ain standards that h11ve become mation on this subject. accepted, whi~h if unch~cked: We wish to express our debt could evolve .mto scholashca~ly I of gratitude to Messrs. Lock-\ harmful practice~,. such as dis-! wood, Johnson, Niemeyer, and honesty . m obt~mmg gym and Ru~s fm· having written these ar- com·ocahon credits and abuse of I t' 1 - h k . 'I . th ·: IC e~. t e open stac privl eges m e The Honor Committee of the Student Council library. The Student Council is, there-! Extending Student Honor ThP ,•xistC'nrP of an honor sy::;tem on a collegiate campus is a mm·k of both maturitv and c-ooperation. No matter what ai'guments may appear in a debate> about the prartkality. or even possibility of an l10nor sy:<oic>m, in tlw c>nd the 'success of this appl'Oach to se,lf- goH·rnnwnt dPpl'nds upon tlw willi1:g~~ss of students to e'.'er:c1~e sell -restraint and tn assume> rl'sponsJbihty. I am a,Iwa~s optlmJs.tk emmg-h to bPliPYe that stude>nts can develop and m.amta1n the stand- ards of honesty, tlw integrity and sensitivity necessary for an ho~or system. Would it not be absurd to think that a .campus commumty can only opC'ratP ::;o long as the lengthy regulatiOns an·d unpopular 1 proctoring C'nforce what good taste and voluntary agreement should prescribe? . . . That there may be pToblems m 1mplementmg an honor system, no one denies. Yet, those who worry about enforcement forget that Jaw itself rests ultimately upon raising the \hue and cry\ .v-:J:en violations occur. Moreever, students and faculty share responsiblhty for assul'ing equity in all .campus matters-if we are to enjoy a mode of living which permits an unfettered search for knowledge and self- exprE'ssion. . .. The College has an obligation to work with stude~ts m arnvmg at acceptable values and, concurrently, rules for behavwr. An ho~or system initiated in the academic area, may well encourage extendmg thP ~a~w sem~P of honor into other affairs where the community PXpC'rt';; each pl'r;;on to consider the sensibilities of others. Good huma·n relation::; ;;hould hP as applicable to the campus as they are elsewhere: an honor system represents a recog-nition by the students of theii' concem frw effPrtivP, matm·e and responsible self -govern- nu'nt. Theodore D. Lockwood Dean of the College Experimentally Proved Feasible Rows and rows of students and students and proctors and proctors. A familiar scene. There was no policing require- For a few years I consistently re- ment or reporting out on your ceived one dissenting vote in my fellowman contained in the make- Sophomore sections which pre- up of the system. Among my. vented the system from function- many as·sociates the system was ing with these groups. With all totally acceptable, eYeryone tak- my uppet· class groups, however, ing it pretty much for granted I the system has been a complete that exams were strictly an in- success. For the last two yem·s dividual responsibility, a self even the Sophomore sections have evaluation exercise, as it were, in indorsed the system. Not once which every man's integrity was have I ever sen'sed any indication expected and assumed. that cheating· has transpired on This is not to say that cheat- unproctored exams under this ing of some kind did not take system. No one among all the place. Only God and the indulg- sections having tried the system ers know. As I look back at thi's has ever g-iven me the indication Since Cnion College studenb are showing considerable interest experience I am aware that the that he was unhappy with the in the feasibility of an honor system, they should know about a system greatly enhanced the gen- system. More positively, all stu- current experiment within the college. . . . eral excellence in scholarly atti- dents who have tried the system Appmximately eight years ago the mter-fmth faculty. commit- tude. I am proud to have had seem enthusiastic and many have tee which guides the policies of the Campus Religious Councll recom- .·the privilege of living and school- I indicated. that it would be a fine mended to the entire faculty an experimental honor system. Several ing as one of a fraternity of \hon- thing to encourage a \\cider prac- members Df the faculty are still u'Sing this system in their classes. m·able\ men. tice Qf an \Honor System\ on a Th.e system operates as follows: at the beginning of a semester I understand l:nion practiced college wide basis. the instruetor conducts a secret ballot in each of his classes to de- an \Honor System\ some years I strongly favor having an termine whether all members of the class will vote yes on both of ago. This system differed in one \Honor System\ on ~ampus. I two propositions - ( 1) that the student will be on his honor. in all important respect from the Yale also believe if we move carefully tPsts for that course and (2) that if he suspects that .anyone m ~he system in that every student was with sufficient dispatch so as not class is violating the honor system, he will promptly mfmm the m- expected and obliged to report to offend the skeptical instructor structor of such suspicion without mentioning any. name. If the I out any evidences of cheating he or the insecure student who is not vote is unanimous in a class, the honor system goes mto effect. may have been witness to. This sure he can trust himself, some In the past eight yPars about half of my elasses have accepted essentially passed down the proc- form of working Honor System the system. In twP in~<tanl'l':< a student ha·s advised me that proctor- toring responsibilities to the stu- can be effected on our campus ing was necessary, but in other classes that ~ave chos.en to be dents themselves. I am willing to with the resulting increase in trusted, I haYe never had reason to suspect cheatmg. Poss1bly 'Some recog-nize that being concerned stature and rapport of our stu- such restrict,?d expPI'iment in an h0nor system, if widely adopted about the morality of one's fel- dent body. in the college, would prepare the student body for the eventual low man should be a part of R. B. Russ adoption of a thoroughgoing honor system. everyone's responsibility. Prac- Professor of Norman P. Johnson ticaliy speaking, however, this ob- Electrical Engineering Professor of Religion ligation became overbearing to many of the students to the point A Success at Yale J.t is heartening to sense interest growing on the part of the ~tudent body for a system of unproctored examinations, called \Honor System.\ Beyond the basic moral question implied ~n the words \honor\ and \trust\ I believe such a system can establish an improved seholastic attitude, as well as establishing a greater rapp·ort between the student and his school. I b~lieve also such ,a system would improve the ~tature of the student m the eyes of h1s furuli~ . I g-rew up in my four years of undergraduate studies at Y!lle l;niversity in the late thirties under an. Honor System. I can .testify that never once in thl'se four years did I ever sense the slightest indir\ation of abuse of the system. We were required only to write the worcl \pledge\ at the end of every quiz and on hour test~ or final examinatinns (which wE're four hours + long) we wet·e requned to write out the stateml'nt, \I have neither given or received aid on this examination\ then signed our name. In certain instances where 11·P wet·e Pxpecte~l to u::;e text hooks for our mathematical tables or other reference material, we were asked to include the words \except as indicated\ on our pledged statement. We then were as~ed to indi- cate the book page etc. to which reference was made. Th1s was done by footnoting the examinatin~ge where such information was used. Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING .LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barret.t St. where this system was voted out L G BAlfOUR CO by action of the Student Council • • • requesting the formal faculty proctoring of exams be rein- stated. For these past some six years I have attempted to implement this program in my class sections. RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS BAR SUPPLIES POL YETHELENE CELLOPHANE NOVELTIES R E .N T A L 5 : GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER CO. Successor to J. NOGEE 8. SONS, Inc. Established I 888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY - SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N, Y. For three Generations ••• Those Who Know Have been recommending +. HERSHEL CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Symcuse, N.Y. 13210 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Granbart & Sons ' 4 3 Union Graduates in. Graubarf Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ~----------------------------------~ Faculty Honor-Student System Professors are genera:Hy skeptical of student honGr systems. 1 11 \The faculty has the honor, the students have the system\-so went . their old wheeze, which expressed a wry and sour disiHusion. The disillusion may be explainable by cultural history. Is· the pt•ofessor perhaps a lineal inteU.echlal descendant of the Puritan minister, :looking with glum misgiving on the code of the cavalier? Did the round-head drive the ·spirit of honor from the world, with this mean Calvinistic belief that none of us is any better than he should be? Such speculation is amusing, but idle. The mistrust, whatever .its origin, is here and has been here for a long time. Honor is adherence to a pattern of conduct in which everyone helieves and which no one questions, but the honorable man is really \inner·directed to use a modern term. What the world tells him. is nothing; what hi's conscience tells him is all. For this reason L am not sure an honor system is possible anywhere in our \other- directed\ society. We are too unsure of our own conduct; we are too easily swayed by what others think; we know ()Urselves too little. Chivalry and honor depend upon passionate belief. The hard , demonstt·able facts we· believe in today evoke no pa'ssicm; the things that evoke our passions are not matters of belief. We suffer from the cleft psyche, and with the cleft psyche honor is impossihle. All mistrust is ug-ly. The prowling proctor, his eyes sweeping the room for the prey on which he feed's; the oblique-eyed ·instructor 1 playing detective instead Gf divinity, a Sherlock Holmes instead of a Socrates - these are unpleasant phenomena. But greed is ugly too, and these creatures are paralleled or called forth by those who regard learning as a swindle, or (which is not really much better) as an extendible credit card with payments indefinitely postponed. Which <>arne first, the spy or the suspect\? I'm not sure but by a kind of parasitism unknown to biologists, or even to !He scientists, these two organisms feed on one another and are both perpetually sustained. Abolish that .self-consuming, self\nouri'shing cyde and an • ,,., honor system will maybe grow up spontaneously. But honor will I come fr()m the conscience only when learning comes from the soul. ; Carl Niemeyer I Students Must Be Protected ,,.~ Rules Pertaining to Tests and Examinations. Honesty in a:II matters is a requisite for Union College students. The College assumes and expects that all tests, examinations, themes, term papers, and exer- cises will be original products of a student's own knowledge and effort. In order to protect the great majority of hone·st students from improper actions by a small minority who would otherwise be tempt- ed to dishonesty, all examinations and tests are proctored. Instt·uc- tor'S are expected to see that students do not have access to books, papers, or other material which could be improperly used during a test or examination. Any such help found in the possession of a student during a test or examination is presumptive evidence of dis- honesty and may res11lt in disciplinary action. Any case of dishone'sty is reported to the Dean of Students for possible referral to the Committee on Discipline. Every a~cusation or request for investigation is presented by the instructor or stu- dent immediately concerned in the charge. If the suspected student is found guilty by the Committee on Discipline, the minimum }lenalty is failure in the ·subject and exclu- sion from all extra·curricular activities, and the maximum penalty is expulsion from the College. NOTT SET RECORD Eliphalet Nott holds the record for longevity of American col- lege presidents. F~urth presi- dent of Union College. Nott serv- ed from 1804-1866. His tenure of sixty-two years is longer by more than six years than the next long- est tenure among American col- lege presidents. the privilege of living and school- stated. Patronize Our Advertisers I - General Regulations. FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail Fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-1763 Wanna rock the boat? Here's your chance. Pru's looking for people for important administrative, sales, accounting and actuarial careers. We want graduates who like to win. Those who can hang in. there till the job is finished. You'll get training, benefits and a good starting salary. More important, there's room at the top for top-notchers ... a II the responsibility you can handle ..• and more interesting problems than you ever thought existed. We expect you to make waves-and you can make some pretty big ones in one of the nation's best-known corporations. Still wanna rock the boat? See the Prudential Recruiter. He'll be at the Placement Office on MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15 II' THE PRUDENTIAL ·INSURANCE ·COMPANY OF AMERICA - .an equal opportunity employer :I ' : Friday., Jan Tl The deve: of liberal ec States has sometimes l ing fast, bu ness in its . founded be before the the buildin1 provides an growth of · The men -w advance. of presidents moulders a stitutions f from the I the present tag.e and g• John ~~ The firsl College, Jol 1799), teac clergyman, Irish teach< resents a b as a mode: Although •1 Smith vigc entire and from every raJ domina of severanc heartily en ders of the ing that t had establ they adopt the laws o come brotho instead of The name< derived fr< of the thir course of American ment. PrE enthusiasti1 the militia tionary W porter of stitution. impact of through hi administrat of liberty 1 to guide throughout man was president. Jonathc 1' Union's athan Ed, his famou: and-brims er, was a J ing theolo, on the pr< and stric making hi

'J • 1965 \I • o went The ofessor inister, the mean be'! ver its is tells reason \other- we are too hard things from of is ugly who better) by a ientists, petually and an wiH soul. matters and exer- and from tempt- Instruc- books, a of a of dis- ents for cusation or stu- ittee on d exclu- is ons. pus . . . . portant We in salary. otchers J He'll be ERICA til tl J • '~ I ! ! I ' , '.~ • I ' : ' I • ~ I I t )' )1 n I •\:~ r ,: ) I I I i .:t .: I i I I ··( i .: i ! Friday, January 8, 19'b5 3 The Presidency 1795-1947 Search Continues For New Prexy . The development and progress I the duality of mind that weaved of liberal education in the United among the fabric of his nature. States has been a movement, H~s doctrines of keen and uncom- ~ometimes backward, of~en hold- 1 pr?mising logic reflect the kin- mg fast, but ever unfoldmg n:ew- 1 sh1p bet'!l'een father and son. ness in its wake. Union College, During Edwards' brief term as . founded before ,the automobile, president of the College, the before the train, before any of bonds that bound men for long the buildings which now stand, to dogmatism still tightly held provides an illustration ·of that Union'.s development. growth of the Americ.an college. ' Jonathan Maxcy The men who have dwected the ' advance of Minerva's dream, the 1801-1804 presidents of the College, the moulders and inventors of in- stitutions and systems, emerge from the past and rise amidst the present to tell us of our heri- tage and goals. John Blair Smith~· 1795-1797 \All men: have full liberty of opinion,\ wrote Jonathan Maxcy, third president of the college (1801 ... 1804), \and ought to enjoy it without subjecting themselves to the imputation of heresy.\ President Maxcy, a graduate of Rhode Island College, was an or- dained pastor of the First Bap- tist Church of Providence before returning to his alma mater as president. After serving as tu- tor, professor and presidenrt of Rhode Island College for fifteen years, he left that post to accept the presidency of the rapidly ex- panding Union College. In 1803, the College substituted French as a language acceptable in place of Greek, another step away from classical education. · Poor health forced President Maxcy to leave Union for the milder climate of South Carolina whe1·e he became the first presi- dent of the University of South Carolina, a position he held until his death ln 1820. Eliphalet Nott, 1804-1866 The first president of Union College, John Blair Smith ( 1795- 1799), teacher and Presbyterian clergyman, son of an immigrant Irish teacher and clergyman, rep- resents a bit of the past as well as a model for future progress. Although ,a man of the cloth, Smith vigorously advocated \an entire and everlasting freedom from every species of ecclesiasti- cal domination.\ The principal of severance with the past was heartily embraced by the foun- ders of the College. Remember- ing that the French Revolution had establLshed this principal, they adopted the motto, \Under the laws of Minerva we all be- come brothers,\ written in French instead of the traditional Latin. The name of the new college was derived from the recent Union In 1804, Eliphalet Nott joined of the thirteen colonies into one his fellow trustees of Union Col- course of study offered was in lege to elect a new head of the American history and govern- institution; he left that meeting ment. President Smith was an as the College's fourth presi- enthusiastic patriot, a captain of dE'nt. Nott, a pastor, Connecti- the militia during the Revolu- cut Yankee, inventor, social re- tionary War and an avid sup- former, pragmatist, bent the iron porter of the new Federal Con- of the American educational in- stitution. Smith died before the stitution into a startling and more impact of the 18th century, but workable shape. Under the ad- through his deeds and ideas, his ministration of Dr. Nott, who administration embodied the spirit served the longest term of any of liberty and courage that were American college president, the to guide the union of states adyan~e.s of the _Industrial and throughout its history. Such a Sctent1f1~ Revolutions. were ab- man was Union College•s fh·st ~orbed mto . the curriculum an~ president. , tdeals of Umon. Coll~ge. The s71- l ences and engmeermg were m- J th Ed d J 1 traduced in the form of new ona an war S, r., 1 courses which Nott brought to 1799-1801 ! Union, making it the mo!jt desir- 1 able senior college in the United States. The studenrt body tripled, drmving young men from all parts of the nation and the world; Union was, for several years, the largest college in America. Until his death in 1866, Eliphalet Nott's dream was the growth of Union College. During his presi- dency the teaching of American History was first included, in- struction in modern languages was developed and the college fratemity came into being. In 1813, a Frenchman, Jacques Ra- . mee, was hired to direct the ar- chitectural design of the bound- ingly advancing new college at Schenectady. The invention of coal-burning grates by Dr. Nott i11troduced a new era in Ameri- can industrial expansion. His .. fathering of Union, his ever- watchful and keen practical wis- dom guided the College's policies for some sixty-two years and had given American education new patterns. For more than half a century Eliphalet Nott fed his life's blood into the fire of a new dynamic age, creating a great educational institution f:rom which were spawned some of our na- tion's first names in political and social life. Laurens Hickok, 1866-1868 logian, writer and philosopher, graduated from Union in 1820. Called back to his alma mater in 1852 by the aging and ailing Eli- phalet Nott, he bore many of the burdens of the College's Ad- ministration until he assumed the presidency in 1866, ·Upon Nott's death. Confident in the powe1· of reason to advance to the con- quest of absolute knowledge, this able dialectician steered Union College through the .perilous seas of a Civi:J War-tom country. Charles Aiken, 1868-1871 Union:'s sixth president was also one of its most distinguished scholars. A graduate of Dart- mouth College at the age of nine- teen, Charles August1:1s Aiken, linguistic expert, served as presi- dent of the coi:lege until 1871. Following his graduation, Dr. Aiken became pastor of the Con- gregational Church of Yarmouth, Maine, professor of Latin at Dart- mouth and, in 1866, profe·ssor of Latin at Princeton. As president of Union, his fame as a scholar and administrative abilities help- ed to raise the College from the disastrous effects of the Civil War. Eliphalet Nott Potter, 1871-1884 Having begun his career as a mate on a round-the-world voy- age on a sailing · ship, Eliphalet Nott Potte1•, Union's next presi- dent (1871-1884), settled down, attending Union College and sub- sequently becoming a theologian. After the War, in which Dr. Pot- ter served the United States as a chaplain and missionary, he as- sumed the post of first professor of ethics at the newly founded Lehigh College. After a brief period of pastoral work in Troy, Potter, a grandson of Eliphalet Nott, was chosen to head the col- lege that his grandfather had guided for so many years. His exceptional abilities as an organ- izer and administrator were soon put to full use. New buildings were erected, the faculty was strengthened by new appoint- ments and Union University, an association of the College at Schenectady with the Albany Law School, the Albany Medical Col- lege and the Dudley Observatory, came into being. This bold ad- vance breathed new life into the College's system; bl'Oadening its outook, expanding new horizons for its graduates. After thirt_een years at Union, Dr. Potter left to assume the presidency of Ho- bart College at Geneva, New York, where he completed his active service to education . Harrison Webster, 1873-1888 Harrison Edwin Webster, Un- ion's eighth president, began his career as a professor of geogra- phy and natural history in 1873. In 1888, he became the head of the institution and his \genius for friendship and his active and versatile mind\ enabled him to strengthen Union at a time when, the services he could perform were most needed. · Andrew Raymond, faculty, and made friends for the . college Who donated money for co!Iege growth. Silliman Hall and the present Biology building were erected during his term of. office. !11 1907, due to failing health, he resigned his post to become an outstanding ecclesias- tic and civil leader in Buffalo. Charles A. Richmond, 1909-1029 By Robert Stolzberg Union Will be without a President for the first time since 1945 when President Carter Davidson re'signs at the stat't of second semester. He leaves to become president of thl' A~soriation of American Colleges . Administrative Re-organization . Since Davidson announced his resignation during· the summer, Union has been searching for someone to replare him. The new president's job will be somewhat different than it is at present, tll)e t(} the re-organization of the administration to include two n~:w academic deans. At present there .are two committees engaged in the sem·ch, one . composed of members of the Board of Trustees artd the other of members of the faculty. The final decision will rest, as determined by the college charter, by the full Board of Trustees body, the two committees acting as advtsory boards. Dr. Charles A. Richmond was born and educated in New York City. Upon graduation from City College, he attended Princeton University Theological Seminary with the hope of dedicating his life to the ministry. After ovet· twenty years as a cleric, he was persuaded to accept the presi- dency of Union in 1909. Under him, the faculty and student body quadrupled, the endowment was increased, and new buildings rose to mark the college's pros·perity. Yet, his gift to the college of the things of the spirit were perhaps even more important: a belief, always brilliantly articulated, of the dignity and worth of the in- dividual, in the great need for achieving world democracy, \a league of human hearts.\ Of education, he once remarked \we have enough men now who know all about education, except what it is for.\ Dr. Richmond retired in 1929, pointing out that it was time for a younger man to take his place. In the true spirit of giving, his years of retirement were shared generously with the college, speaking and writing for i': until his death in 1940. Calm and storm are sharply marked on the career of Frank Parker Day, president of Union College from 1929-1933. The economic influence of the Depres- sion which broke on the country in 1929 Dr. Day met with cour- age. College administration was reorgani:.;ed; the academic de- partments were integrated into four divisions, and the athletic department was reconstituted. After much fruitful accomplish- ment, Union's first lay president retired to his native Nova Scotia. Dixon Ryan Fox, 1934-1946 Hundred Suggestions As ·of now, over a hundred names have been suggested te the committees for consideration. Most of the pa·pe1work concerning these men's backgrounds has already been dune, and two men have visi·ted the campus. Nevertheless, there is no information available on how many other men are under serious eom;ideration nor any estimate of when the search will be completed. Dean Lockwood stated that the Trustees are convinced that the importance of the post precludes the appointment of anyone who is not fully qualifiP1l'. The selection of President Davidson took sixteen months to complete. The new president will take office at a crucial period in the college's history. The next few derades wiH be difficult ones fot· Union, caught as it is between the large universities on the one hand and the rise of the community colleges on the other. This state of affairs makes it critical that the new pt·esident he a man of .fot'P- sight and vi·gor. · Thus, while certain bt·oad guidelines can be enume1·ated, the intangibles of the man himself are far more important. Most im- portant of these is that he have a phloisophy of distinctive educa- tton and the personal qualities of leadership and administrat've talent which will allow Union to ·sharpen and clarify its position. This is necessary if Union is to keep its place in the vanguard of American educational institutions. Desirable Qualities Certain qualities in the prospective candidate::;' baekgi'Ound haVl' been considered desirable. :v.Iost important of these is that he ha\'e experience in the field of education. The committees are not looking for a defeated politician or a retired business executive. The new president will not be just an educational caretaker. Preferably he will have shown evidence of high scholarly attainments in his fiehl. Taking into account that at Union there is a unique blend of em- phasis on science and technology in a liberal arts setting, it will help if he has some knowledge of both aspects of education, not ju;;t his own field. Publication, stated Mr. Bernard Carman of Public Relations, is useful as evidence of scholarly standing. Other qualities which are considered include the man's family, his personal appear- ance, preferably one of dignity and poise, and a sensitivity to the needs of the faculty. He will also be expected to aid in the financial campaigns which will be undertaken during his administration. Money And Education Carman continued, that the common conception of a rollege president's main function as that of a fund-raiser put the emphasis in the wrong place. He stated that fund-raising is best served by a president that will make the college a better academic institution, by making it an exciting place that the alumni, foundations, and the general public will want to support. As chief executive, the Presi- dent will play a major role in gaining that sort of a reputation. Thus, while money is an important ingredient in making the sC'hool a better one, it must serve the educational needs. These qualities are used as working guidelines for the comm't- tees. They are not, and should not be considered, absolute necessities. The decision cannot be made by simply producing a list of qualifira- ti:ons and then compadng each candidate, selecting the one with thP most checks next to his name. The process canno·t be rushed, and the trustees and faculty members involved are making an assiduou::; search. Personal Contacts One of the main advantages to having a faculty committee in addition to the trustee committee i:s that they have some sources of information o:pen to them that the trustees do not. Among thE'se are personal contact's with members of the faculties where candidates have previously worked. This information can often prove very valuable in providing fresh insight. Due to the close liaison between the two committees, the search has been made utilizing the particular qualifications of both. On the one hand, the faculty make available to the trustees information they could uot otherwi·se gather. On the other, the trustees have been careful to take into account the desires and needs of the faculty. Professor Way, chairman of the faculty committee, stated that \Co- operation between the trustee and faculty committees has been excellent.\ Co-ordinated Activity The search began with a joint meeting of the two committees, at which the trustees set down the general guidelines which would be used in the search. Since then there has been one other joint meeting, but Way and Rudolph Schatzel, chairman of the trustee committee, have met frequently. After careful ·study, the trustees will all, personally interview the candidate and, if they feel he is qualified, will invite him to visit the campus, where he will meet faculty members. These will then write summaries of their opinions and sUJbmi:t them to the faculty committee. They will write a formal report and pass it on to the trustees through the Dean's office. Members of the trustee committee are Rudolph A. Schatzel, chairman; Samuel B. Fortinbaugh; William A. Waldron, vire-chair- man; Ralph D. Bennett; and Meade Brunet, ex officio. On the faculty committee are Harold E. Way, chairman; Wilford Ketz, Secretary; Neal Allen; William Murphy; and Edward Craig. Dean Theodore Lockwood often i's invited to participate in meetings, but is not a member. ernment work apprenticeships. II will be a great institution long, Shortly before his death he wrote, long after you and I have laid \Union College was a great in- down our labors.\ It was within stitution long, long before you 1 the framework of this faith that and I were ever th<Jught of. It he worked and died. 1888-1894 It has been said of Dixon Ryan /rom fhe Union's second president, Jon- athan Edwards (1799-1801).~ like his famous mystic-reli·gious, fire- and-brimstone - philosoph~r fath- er, was a free-speaking and think- ing theologian. His liberal views on the problem of Negro slavery and strict religious orthodoxy, making him many enemies, reveal Laurens· Perseu!l Hickok, fifth president of the College, ( 1866- 1868 ), vigorous and liberal theo- Dr. Andrew Van Vranken Ray- Fox, .that \he had a gift for mond modestly insisted that he teaching, not merely imparting had no special preparation for knowledge, but by stimulation of college leadership when the tl'Us- a desire to use it in creative ef- tees urged him to give up his fort.\ He used this gift brilli·ant- pastorate of Albany's Fourth ly during the 22 years he served Presbyterian Church to assume as a member of the his-tory fac- the presidency of Union in 1894. ulty of Columbia University. In The Dutch tradition of the \cal- 1934, Dr. Fox became the twelfth culated risk\ was deeply imbued president of Union. During his in Dr. Raymond. Under his guid- ten years in office he brought the ance, the college prepared itself theatre and the campus together for the large role it was to play in the Mohawk Drama Festivals ih the new century. He insti- which made Union a cultural cen- tuted a helpful new financial pol- ter for the whole community. He icy, enlarged and strengthened the also instituted a system of gov- ScheneclaJ'i Printing Co., JJnc.

4 Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N, Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Set·vice, Inc .. College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered In the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class Mail :Matter. Subscription 15o a copy: $a a yea-r delivered anYWhere in the United States. :o;I•;XUJ!t BOAIUl · · LARRY HOROWITZ '65 ................ 346-9895 .......................................... Editor-in-Chief MARK OBE:-:ZINGER '65 ............ Dl6-9959 ................................... Business Manager RICHARD ARO~ '65 ...................... Dl6·9848 ................................. Managing Editor . Fe.aturt's Editm IWBl·;HT !'. H< >'1\~\;1.\.:o; 't;ti Bll\HA!tll ~1FT<>:-: 'l;t; Hll'I!Ait!J HE;-;t'H '6li WILLIA~l T. WINNE '3L .......................... . JUNIOR BOARD . Nt>WS Editor ... ~norts Editor ' ......................... Faculty Advisor · Alan Jeffrey • 65. ...... ................ . ................................................... Contributing Editoi :\lurk Kasowitz '67.......... ...... . ............................................. Assistant News Editor Bnrn· Xt'Wlltan '6\;.......... . ........ Assistant News Editor l\latthew ::\1. Kat& '67.. .. .. ............................ Associate 'News Editor Hobert Stolzberg '67.. . ......................................... Associate News Editor , Arnold Katz '66.......... .. ......................................................... Copy Editor Andrew Colb '6;.. ...... . ... . . .. Assistant Copy Editor Lart·y Driskman '67 ............................... Assistant Copy Editor Peter l\liehl '67.. ... ...... ... ................................. . ................... Assistant Copy Editor . Paul Sherwin '67.................................................. ..Assistant Features Editor Michael Spodak '66. .... .. ....................................................... Assistant Sports Editor Howard A. Goldberg '67 ........................................................... Assistant Sports Editor Rill I.iebowitz '67 .................................................................................. Photographer , !\:at Htevens 'GX ..................................... Photographer Hobt:-rt A. RosE-nthal 'tl7 ........................................................... Subscrlption Manager End Of An Era We think that Dr. Carter Davidson, who has devoted himself heart and soul to Union Col1ege for 19 years, would be the first to admit that although there have been many significant improvements over that period, (see page 1) they fall short of the goals he set for himself back in 1946. This is due in part to the fact that his goals, as set down in his inaugural address, were admiraoly high. In the suc- ceeding paragraphs we would like to review the key parts of his first address and point out how close he came to transforming them into fact. \But though we see occasional bold colle~es seeking to climb out of tht> rut, wt> find tht> vast majority content to drift with the crowd, to conform tn tht• t'rlncational ID!loft'S bt'caust> conformity spells comfo1·t.\ 1>1·. Davidson's Inaugural Address With this statement Dr. Davidson showed himself to be keenly aware of one of the major problems of our time - the fear that individuals have to break away from the '·acceptable\ but static way of doing things. He seemed to be saying that the leaders in education would be those who dared to flaunt tradition and follow their academic instincts. Said Dr. Davidson .... \One force that prevents our facing this task is fear - fear of difficulties of accreditation by the various standardizing agencies if we break away from the old pattl'rns of a 36 week-yea1· and 120 crpdit hours. . .. :-.; l'W inst itu lions likt> Bennington College or older ones likP thP l\nivet·sity of Chicago or the l;niversity of Minnesota havt> been frowned upon by the crowd as dangerously experimental, tainted with the pinldsh color of P1·ogressive education. Colleges too fet'l the ridicule of polite l'ducat ion a I society. There is no real need fm· uniformity in American higher educa- tion any more than there is in its churches, its businesses, its maga- zines, its towns and cities. The glory of democracy lies in its diversity.\ How disappointing it is to read these words now, many years later, with Union still being very much the balanced college, searching for a direction, striving to build up a solid central core from which it would then proceed to expand and grow in its own distinctive manner. ·wl: are firmly convinced that Dr. David!'lon would not have resigtwd frum Union College had the Davidson Cal- endar bel:ll put into cffcrt. We do not wish to discuss the merits of that LJru!Josal again -- that's not the point. The voint is th:1t n:wirlson stnkf'il all his prE>stige on the pro- posal. i-1e made last ditch efforts in the form of personal leeers to all faculty members in the hope of getting it through. He gambled and lost. This was to be his hope for Caion Ccl!c;;c. This w:-~s to hE' thE> RyRtE>m that would take Union uul uf its rut, and set it apart from all other colleges. When the faculty saw fit to reverse- not defeat initially - but reverse au earlier decision and rescind his calendar, many predicted that hi8 tenure as president would soon draw to a clcsc. As any man in his position would do, l:e jumped at the chance to exit gracefully and let someone else try his luck at getting Union out of its rut. Tributes To A Departing Leader The departure of President Davidson. from the campus is cause for serious regret for all of us, particularly those who have had the privilege of working closely with him. Over the last seventeen years first as a stlld- ent and then. as a college admin- isti·ator, I have met and known many presidents. No one that I have known has displayed the strong personal interest in the welfare of the individual that is so characteristic as Carter David- son. Students and faculty alike know that he has done many things for them, but they will never fully appreciate just how much he has done. The College bears his imprint and will al- ways look to his presidency as ohe of the most important in its history. The reasons for this are many: new buildings, improved conditions for· the faculty in sal- ary and benefits, expanded stud- ent services, etc. Regardless of the position anyone occupies in the College community, everyon~ has been affected by and bene- fited from his association with the President. I am happy to join with aU students, faculty and trustees in the hope that the years ahead will be satisfying and happy for the President and Mrs. Davidson. 0. Edward Pollack Dean of Students The changes that have occurred on the Union campus in the eigh- ~een years of Dr. Davidson's pres- Idency are often thought of in terms of salary increases and ?uilding construction. Equally Important to students who have attended the college during these years, has been Dr. Davidson's concern for their interests. The All-College Council has been cre- ated to allow students, faculty and Administration an oppO!·tun- itr to inform earh other about various matters of importance to the srhool. This supplements the Annual Student-Faculty Confer- ence, another example of student par~icipation in college planning. Student membership on faculty committees is an inno\·ation which Dr. Davidson helped bring to Un- ion. ::'>Taturally, all the student opinions are not acreptPd hut during the last eighteen ye~n; it can he .said that students have been heard on matters important to them. Let us hope that this demo::ratic tradition will be con- tinued in the spirit that has been established during the tenure of our thirteenth president. President, Student Council \\ ictory Fazio, '6:1 It has been a real privilE\ge and plea~ure to have been assocateid with President David~on over the past nineteen years. ThosE' of us who have a deep conrel\ll for the deals and progress of union Col- llge have been greatly gratified during this time by the outstand- ing contributions and advanrP- Excerpts From Inaugural The following is an excerpt fmm President Carter Davidson's Inaugural Address-\The Four Revolutions\: ment of t11:e physical plant and the academic programs of Union u?der the presidency of Dr. Da- vidson. Tremendously important too, has been his continuous effort on ~ehalf of the faculty and staff to mcrease both theh· financial ~d professional status. Dr. Da- Vldson not only ha:s had a deep and abiding concern but has ac- complished much for the advance- ment and quality of higher educa- tiot; .and f~r making its oppor- tumtJes available to qualified stu- dents. Union's loss is certainly the Association of Amercan Col- lege's gain, but in his ne·w post t!he Presdent, I know, will con~ tmue and expand hi·s effort's to enrcih the academic benefits of Union and the other 850 member colleges of the Association. He and Mrs. Davidson leave here with the sincere affection, best wishes, and gratitude of all of us. Lillian Applegarth, Executive Assistant to the President. The old quip that a college president is best remembered for the buildings erected during his tenure has a certain relevance for Carter Davidson's presidency, but for those of us who worked with him over the years, the more real memory is that of his building in terms of people. Blessed with a rare intuitive ·sense Gf who will make a strong addition to the Faculty and Staff, he is, almost alone, responsible for the high lE:vel of personnel that obtains at the College today. Thsi adivity he has buttressed with an unfail- ing concern for the continued well-being of the individual in ways too numerous to mention. I know that all of us share a real feeling of sadness at the David- son's departure and a warm store of memories for the years of as- sociation with them both. C. William Huntley Professor of Psychology February 4th (Thursday) G1·aduating Ele-ctrical Engineers and Physicists are invited to discuss current openings in re-~earch. de- sign, de\'Pinpment and mnnufndur. ing in arE'a-. :-ouch n~: Fire Control Systems Radar Systems Data Processing Equipment Inertial Guidance Systems Television Systems Aircraft Instrumentation Navigation Systems Precision Components Solid State Devices U. S. Citizenship Required. Nor• d~n's location in Norwalk, C~n­ nel\ticut i~ f?asily acre~sib1e tu the entire New York metropolitan area. For convenient appointment. please make arrangements in advance through yuur l'lacement Office. Norden u DIVISiON OF UNR AIRCRAFT CORP. An Equal Opportunity Employer TTTTTT~~TTTTTTTTTTTTTT- STIJDENT TRAVEL • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICI:S Nineteen years is a long time. It is perhaps too long for one man to remain at the helm of any institution. And yet the irony of his presidency is that Dr. Davidson came closest to what he wanted at the end. It was almost as if the first 16 years of admittedly steady progress, had only been the ground work for his real goal. \ ... nut how ··an tlw ,. ·llq;(' escapP from thr ~cvlla of mPn• conformity, !'~capt> a\lso from thP Charybui~ uf mt·aning!.:s:; twnt·on· fot·mity and find it0o1 \\'!W into a significant pattern? Colleges, un- happy \'·pr tlw n••cli-t-hnu1· s\·~­ tem, have tried variou,; devices, among them that the student be required to pass a series of ex- aminations fitted to the various levels of general education and Ue!Jartmeulal l:i!Jct:ializaliun. Thl: <Iegree will be grantect whE>n th\ student gives evidence that he ha:; acquired :;ufficient knowledge. It is argued that thii:i device makes the instructor and the stu- dent partner5 in the game to out- wit the examination board. The student will realize that the teach- er is there to help him and not to inflict punishment upon him O'l\ even to decide whether he passes or fails. Therefore, there will be bon rapport among all concerned. It is conceivable, however, that if the student thinks of the college a:s an examination .bureau accom- panied by several cramming schools, he will receive very little true education from the college during the period of time he is there. If he is anxrous to pass the examinations and secme the degree, he may concentrate upon the devices for accomplishing this and miss all the enrichment of living and development of person- ality which should result from Books Now open for Christmas and Recess Vacations Schenectady Travel · Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. It is a great credit to the man that he tried to turn words into deeds and came so very, very close. · We wish him the very best of luck in his new positio~. attending college.\ . PHONE FR 7·8506 Agents For All leading Airlines~ 5.5. Companies ~ Railroads and Car RentaL Cos. :. • ' 4 • A 4 A -4 + + + 4 ;4 4 +. • J. + 4 J.. ~· ·J. Friday, January 8, 1965 Ca~npus Calendar Friday, January 8-Union-Wesleyan Debate; \Resolved: That sexual relations ·between consenting adults not be legislated against/~1.<8 ~ P Jl-· in Nott Memorial. Publi~ invited: · ~ -Faculty Bridge, 8:00 P.M., Hale House. Saturday, January 9~Frosh Basketball, Trinity.; 6:15 P.M., Field ·: fum~ , -Varsity Basketball, Trinity; 8:00 P.M., Field House. -Faculty Square Dance; 8:30 P .. M., Old Chapel. Sunday, January 10-Union-Marymount Concert; 8:15 P.JYI., Me- morial Chapel. Tuesday, January 12-Class of '66. Executive Council Meeting; 11 :30 A.M., Hale House Student Lounge. All weekdays-Skiing available to Union students at $1.50; 'Tues- day through Friday from 9:30A.M. to 10.:30 P.M., Willard Mountain, North Easton, N.Y., 28 miles on Rt. 40. Schedule REGISTRATION FOR SECOND SEMESTER, 1964-1965 will be held Sunday, January 31, Alumni Gymnasium All undergraduate studuents (includuing \Specials\); thos~ whose last names begin with: A thru Bo at 1:00 P.M. Br thru Co at 1:15 P.M. Cr thru E at 1:30 P.M. F thru G at 1:45 P.M. H at 2:00P.M. I thru La at 2:15P.M. Le thru Me at 2:30P.M. Me thru 0 at 2:45P.M. p thru Ri at 3:00P.M. Ro thrnu Sn at 3:l~J.'.M. So thru u at 3:30P.M. v thru z at 3:45P.M. Tuition will be payable at that tme. All checks shDuld be made payabte to Union College. Doors will be closed at 4:00 P.l\1. No Transcripts Issued Because of the posting of the grades, the Registrar's Office will not issue transcripts durin•g the examiniJ.tion period.. Orders may be left in the Office, but the transcripts will not be mailed be- fore February 1st. Durham, N. C.-(I.P.)-A new course on the seas pf philanthropy -the award of major and sus- tained grants within the arts and humanities-is being chartered by the Ford Foundation and a high· ly regarded Duke University pro- fessor has been tapped to head the rapidly expanding program. Dr. Sigmund Koch, professo1• of psychology and a veteran of more than 20 years on the faculty at Duke, has been appointed director of the Humanities and the Arts program. He succeeds Dr. W. Lowry who was promoted to vice of the Foundation. Dr. Lowry, in his new capacity, will remain in , ndministrative supervision of the program. RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN fOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAfOODS Friday, Jan1 (Contint cient round year planni field house structure w veterans of Its seventy- in the contli To aid their way tl: ministration arship prog: sand dollar freshman ai ship progra grow extem the late fo1 students we from the col An innov; ties which h ion ever sir of Higher E Peace. Star· college, HR penses and approximate dents each :li pays tuition gram with was later c the college creased expa Const During th immersed il keep up witl ing world. started on tl mitory in tb lege. At a c placed the Also in 195C most loved tutions was Rathskeller. ing in the years from Geology buil Another n 1950 was in Union. Tu going to stantly on ing from $750 per te of operating increased. T c1·ea·ses was ulty salaries a~e :;;alary 1 $3,600. Toda En do· The colle' he<'n growin' h<> yem·s in neet rising ;~ailey, who ·reasm·er fo ··ame to t:ni Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week ~dowment wa: · left in 1952 l not includin! :;;~;;;~~;-~-~-~--~-;-~..,..._~;·;-~·~-~-;·;-~-~~~-;-;-;-~-~-~-;-~-~-~~;~;-~-~-~·;-~ ... ~-~-;-;-~-~-.\~ . half million l ! ............ ·~ -~ ~ ·.·~· ~·; ~- ............ - ,r::~;~~~; t hampered b: t changed thei1 ~ Cafeteria and Tap Room ~a systPm of t adopted here. ~ low Freshme Fine Food and Legal Beve.rages selves to col ing barraged 118-120 JAY STREET .................................................. Down to Louis', let us llo, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1395 - Corner 266 State and .Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER The plan wa'E In the san · Chapel requi alleviated. P1 body met ear: vocation. Th dr:opped and the present o Fresl Latet·, in turned once l ·onn•nling lh. familiar histn Pd then ov~ t ~iunal 11-;d}u:.l. I ~Pneral h1st\ attempt was I 'llt'll lll~>l'l' th: ··1 high ,;ehool e year at colleJ For reservat·ions phone FR .4-8917 .~·~~~~~~--~--~~·~---~- ~~~ u Kell{ i Harold Krl ! hP Union ('n structor of , mrstP!'. II GO HO~E (2 OR MOREl SHIRTS PANTS SUITS -------98c JACKETS ---- PANTS ------49c SWEATERS _,__4!Jef£·1 1 S 17 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE -· FR 4~.5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk ·NQiion~l Bank Wayne last month whc

DAMAGED PAGE(S) Friday, January 8, 1965 5 Recent College History Recounted President Cites Quality Science Editor To Discuss Life In Outer Space That g adults . in Nott Field. Field . • M., Me- 'Tues- to 10.:30 o' on, N.Y.,· (Continued from Page 1) cient round building. In the same year planning for the memorial field house was initiated. This structure was to honor Union's veterans of the World War and its seventy-six alumni who died in the conflict. To aid students in paying their way through college, the ad- ministration revitalized its schol- arship program. Seventeen thou- sand dollars was allotted for freshman aid alone. The scholar- ship program has continued to g-row extensively at Union since the late forties so that in 1960 students were receiving $451,000 from the college. Of Educational Program (Continued from Page 1) ments and service of its -alumni · through alumni medals and honorary degrees (nine of our present trustees were awarded honorary doctorates before they were elected to the board). 4'>>------- ready at the strategic moment. I Walter Sullivan, Science Edi- do not want to imply that we tor of the New Yorlt Times, will have neglected the humanities lecture on the possibility of in- and social sciences dudng these telligent life on other planets. years-the additions in art, mu- sic, Russian, Chinese, Far Eastern The talk, first convocation of the History, 'Economics 0f Underde- second semester, will be held on What is the current market vel oped Nations, International February 2, at 11:30 A.M. in Me- value of a Union College de·gree 1 Relations, and sociology have moria! Chapel. Sullivan, whose It has never been higher, even .given real strength to these areas. science articles appear regularly in the 1840's when Union under But let us be frank. The un- on the New York Times front Eliphalet Nott was America's · t d f h' iqueness of Union College-not page, IS no e or · 1s coverage largest and most influential col- a freakishness, but a positive, ad- of the International Geophysical lege. The reasons for this pres- vantageous uniqueness-lies in Year, for which he received the · ent high value was partly his- its fu]i]y developed modern sci en- George K. Polk Memorial A wanl. torical. partly contemporary. Al- tific curriculum, faculty, and Suilivan's book, Assault on the though the college founded in · t d t Unknown, deals with the IGY. 1795 was intended to be a typical eqm~men , secon .. o none among , . liberal arts institution, the new 1 !he liberal arts colleges of Amer- Sullivan recently. rece1ved .the ng of the will the may , but the be- An innovation of the late for-· ties which has been hailed at Un- . ion ever since was the program of Higher Education for Lasting Peace. Started by students of the college, HELP has provided ex- penses and aecommodations for approximately ten foreign stu- dents each year, while the coHege pays tuition. The exchange pro- gram with ETH in Switzerland was later developed, and today the college looks forward to in- creased expansion of exchanges. Shaffer Library, completed in 1961, was a major addition to the physical plant of Union College during the presidency of Carter Davidson. sciences soon emerged in the cur- Ica ... Stud.ents who enroll s.hould 1 Advancement of Sc!ence-Westmg- riculum and in 1846 engineer· I rea:ltze thts fe!l'ture, should tal~e house Sciem:-e Writing Award for was est'ablished as part of a ![b: adyantage of It\ (they do, as Js his series of articles in the Times eral education. From 1900 to ev!dence.d by 98 7c of .the fresh- on research into the Earth's in- 1930, two-thirds of the students men. bemg enrolled .m math~- terior.. Participating. in the ex- were engineers studying under matlcs~, should be p!Oud of It. ploratwn of An,tarctlcs, he has Charles Proteus Steinmetz nd Alumm .should tell the story of taken part in four expeditions Ernest Berg and the result !as how Umon was ready ~vhen the since World War II. His book, that the departments of mathe- cha}lenge came to Am~riCan edu- ~!'est For a Continent,. is a de.fin- matics (under Garis and Morse), c~t:on, re.spo~~ed to tt. by pro- ttlve work on Antarctic explora- new and sus- e arts and b:v a high· pro- to head of of more faculty at director the Arts s Dr. W. to vice Lowry, in remain in of the •'wwv+tt ' ....... ... ere vd. Construction Begins During the fifties, Union was immersed in more attempts to keep up with a rapidly progress- ' ing world. In 1950, construction · started on the new fre'shman dor- freshman advisory system was begun. Along this line John Girdner was appoin-ted in the newly formed post of Counselor to Students in 1953. mitory in the pasture, West Col- Throughout the fifties the rna- lege. At a cost of $400,000, it re- jor building projects of the col- placed the wartime structures. lege were completed. The Field Also in 1950, one of the college's i House, finished in 1955 was the most loved and respected insti- I largest and most costly college tutions was established - the I structure built up to that time. Rathskeller. It has been operat-. In 1958, plans were begun for the ing in the black most of these construction of Richmond House years from the basement of the 1 with the procurement of a federal Geology building. I loan for $900,000. With a gift Another major advancement of from Henry Schaffer of more than 1950 was in the cost of attending half the total cost, the new Shaf- Union. Tuition expenses for I fer Library was built for $1,00,0,- going to college were con- 000. lt doubled the book capac:ty stantly on the rise increas- and tripled the student rapacJty 1 ing from $500 in ' 1950 to! of the old library. Sine~: 19fl0, $750 per term today. Expenses I nearly $4,000,000 has. been sp~nt ·1 of operating the college have also/ on ~ampus constJ:'!ctlon, not .m- in creased. The bulk of these in- rludmg the ~xt.ensJve rPno\·atJon creases was directed toward fac-1 of campus bmldmgs. I ulty salaries. In 1946 thl' aver- In the academil' field, man~· I agt' salary for. f::eulty her<' was changes have been made over the $3,600. Today Jt IS $11,000. I Y.ears in various courses ~nd c.ur-, E d t G ncula. The five year engmeenng n owmen rows I b d pro\'ram was egun, an many The college endowment has new\' courses, such as Asian stud- 1 been gro\\'ing considerably over I ies, have been added. There has 1 ·hP years in fmther attemots to been continuing controversy over 1 1 neet rising costs. When Frank I plans and proposals for revision 1 ihiley, who sened as college :of the calendar. I 'reasm·er fo1· fifty years, first: . . , .. ··arne to t:nion in 1901. the en- I • J?urmg the past mneteen_ }Cal s I lj, dowment was $400,000. When he l: n:o!l has made many ad' anc·es, · left in 1952 it \\'US $11 000 000 I and 1t has not stopped. Th.e de-; l not including a bequest' of' on~' bat~ ,over ~alenda: and curncular I : half mi!Hon dollars which he him- ! revisiOn still contmues: and more ' self left the c[)llPge. Today, the· pl~n~ have been ad• a~c~ for' I d . t h 1· b d t $ 26 · bUJldmg p1·ograms of dol m1tones en 0'\1\;men as c un e o ,-~ d th l'b. • tellites For I 000 000 an e I 1 ary s sa . ' · . . • . . th<' futun•, nothing ran be cer- I . Fraterm;ties at ln10n, wh1ch: tain, but onE' thing is nearly so-; had flourJshed for deca~es un- ! during the next yearg, as in the I hampered ~~· colle~e dJrectJOn, · past, Union College will offer! changed then· wats m 1952 when 1 higher education to many thou-, a system of defPr~erl rush was :mnds of nwn who dt>~ii'P to ](•arn. adopted here_ Its aim was to al-1 . i low Freshmen to accustom them-1 ·-- ---- · - - selves to college life before be- 1 ing banaged by fraternity men. D;nC\f I The plan wa's proved a success. ._. ·6.1\' • • • I . In the sal!le year, the college (Continued from Page 1) · Chapel requirement was greatly . . I alleviated. Previously the student I fourth and most recent tnp, m body met each morning for a con- 1962, he toured South America. , vocation. This requirement \':'as He is thP author of one major' i dwpped and a ~yslem nwn• hke 1 book, \Colleges for Frt'edom,\ the present one mstalled. 1 published by H a~pur Bros., an.d I Freshmen Helped I Gf numerous art1cles t~at haH' l · - · 'lppearPcl throug·hout h1s carPE>r · Later, m 19<~:l,. attentiOn was I ! 1 d' .,. periodicals. 1 turned once agam to freshmen, 111 ea 111 \ 1 ·oncen1ing lhei1· cuniculum. The l'n:,idc~:l David:>ull gJ·aJua.tyJ, ! familiar histnr~· rour~c wa~ stal'!- 1 fron.1 Harvard in 1!125 ~!nd r~·r. PJ\'- fl'd then, ov~:rturning the tradi-, ed hi~ Ph.D. at the t:mvers1tr ~f, year at college. In addition, the ' Williams in 1961. : . -·- . .. -- -- - . i I ~iunal Illdhucls foi' iri3trudiuJi i11 1 Chicago in 1!>30. He \\'<l:il P!'cin- , ::;\Pnernl history, antl ::m rwcrall dent of Knox C'nllcgc> bdot<' rom- attempt wal) made to 15ive _fresh- ! ing to Union,. . Since 1944, he has, 'llt'll m~>n' than a ,·,•ntilluaLuii of OLTI! the rc~lplclll ,.f dt·\t'll hnn-, ·~high ,;rhnol ('OUI'St'~ in th~:ir fin;t orary deg.rrees, nwsl. n·rl'nlly from, 1 Keller Replaces Nowack I I Harold Krllt•t· will hr added to :<tan·~· of Art; and Art :!lb, a<l- 1 !h<' Union ('o)]pg-p faC\u!tr a~ In· 1 \':tllC'<'d paintin).'; and rlt·a\\'ing. structor of Art _for the spring 1 Keller will not lw a Jll'rmanent ' ____ .. , t<•r. ll<' \nil re}Jlarc l'ry- mr>mher of Lhe staff. l<'ot· the. I' Wayna Nowark who J'etJr I ' - present ho\W\'CJ' lw will remain last month. as the' sole me~ber of the De- Keller, who instructed at Un- partment of Art. The othet· last year during Profe·ssor member, Professor John Brad- k's sabbatical, received his hury, Professor of At·t and Eng- from Arkansas and his M.A. !ish, is presently on sabbatical ,...., .. ,.,. .... __ New York Univel'sity. Be- leave on a Fulbright Scholarship A'!'lr.;,•· coming to Union he had sen·- in Istanbul for the 1961-GG school I Instructor in Art at the year. University at Oneonta. 3 Bank the past year he has a free-lance artist in area, and has taught the Schenectady ~u- Schenectady, X. Y.-(I.P.)- Laboratory work in the typical undergraduate engineering course is a \waste of time,\ according to the chairman of the mechanical . engineering department at Union College. Dr. Gardner M. Ketchum said the latest study plan calls for only three laboratory courses in the 17 courses o:ffered to majors. physics (under Wold and Rojan- v1dmg . SCientific educ~t10n at .a tion. . ski), chemistry (under Ellery and very high level, and IS today m Upand, Ind.-(I.P.)-A report Hurd), biology (under Mavor and ~he forefront of the colleges meet- World Traveler released by Vice President and 1 1 Clark), and .psychology (under mg the needs for the ~ge of Out- As a teenager, Sullivan traveled Academic Dean Milo A. Rediger March and Ligon) became excep- er Shpace anldl lnnetrh Sctentcle. 1 F~r to Alaska for the American Mu- t . 11 t . f It . sue a co ege e ou oo t Is f N t 1 H' t . s· of Taylor University points out wna Y s rong m acu y, eqmp- th ·n· seum a. a ur.a 1s o1y. . mce h . . ment, and graduates. When World rt mg. then, hts exp2r1ences have mclud- t ~t the purpose of the d1stm- War II arrived, with its after- Of course I can take satisfac-, ed crossing the Gobi Desert, be- guished guest professor program· math of atomic science, Sputnik I tion in the new buildings, the ris- ing marooned on a Pacific Island, at this institution is to stimulate' technol?gy, and sophisticated n:ta- i i~g academ.ic standard.s of admis- c?mmanding a. destroyer, wit!les.; self-study in all departments of themabcs for computers, Umon I swn, the htgher salaries for fac-1 smg the Chmese Commumsts the · , 't . College was exceptionally prepar- ulty, the growth in endowment capture of Shangri, and providing unnersi y,. to provide expert ed to meet the challenge. The during these nineteen years. But news coverage of the Korean consultant serviCe, and to conduct remarkable record of our gradu- more important even than these War and launchings at Cape Ken- significant in-service training pro-~ ates in medicine, .physics, mathe- is the quality of the educational nedy. He has also taught gee- grams for the faculty matics, chemistry, and psycho!-, program, the scientific excellence 1 physics and space research at the · ogy during the past twenty years which is the hallmark of Union American Museum-Hayden Plane- has been clear proof that we were College today. , tarium in New York. ----------------- .Olds·.•·· Whoosh! What you almost saw above was the wooliest number in years: Oldsmobile's 4-4-2. Sporting (and standard) equipment includes a 400-cu.-in. 345-hp V-8 mill backed with 4-barrel carb and acoustically tuned, chambered twin pipes. And \sticky\ red-line tires. And front and rear stabilizers, heavy-duty frame, springs and shocks that make lean and sway mere memories. Three transmission availabilities, too, including 3-speed synchromesh, 4-on-the-floor and Jetaway automatic. Better hurry over to your Olds Dealer's. The 4-4-2 is a restless beast! (And it's the lowest priced high-performance car in America!) 0 B~~OLDSMO~·HIL~ Tty a Rocket inAction ••• Look to Olas for the Newl -- -

THE PRESIDENCY Page 3 C·oncordy Sports HO:NOR CODE Page 2 Potted Ivy League, lJnbeaten Gridders Cagers, S-2, Fa,ce Trinity To1norrow Vol. 94 Last T\\Vo Highlight Decades By Eric Singer In Sport· Potted Ivy league With the turn of th:e year, the Union College cagers •182 By Ricky Resch Sports Editor League Takes Root.\ At this point seven schools had expressed an interest in the league. Ivy League Dies The building of Memorial Field At a meeting of college presi- House the reorganization of the dents (President Davidson was Block ' .. U\ Society, a consistently one of the eight Little Ivy League outstanding s·wimming team, and Presidents to attend) on January a bid to tlw Tulip Bowl at the 13, 1954, the proposed league was elld of the 195:3 football tieason I discussed. Three opinions seemed are among Cnion's ath1etk ac- to enl'ompass the attitudes of the complishments during President schoo1s. Some ~vere against any Carter Davidson'~ teym, b!lt by I type of league; some were in far the mo:ot fascmatmg episodes I faw>r of the proposed football in ·sports were the unsuccessful league, and a third group felt attempts by the College to form · that a conference should be form- the \l'ott~d hY League.\ ~d with more emphasis placed on The idea of this league was competition i~ academic fie~ds t d l y New York Times such as debatmg. It was reahz• su 1 gges .et J 1 • 11 n KI.eJ·nan in an ar- ed that many problems faced the co umms o h I . 1 d ti ticle about Union's undefeated s? oo s rnvodvfe ' sto da tmleed ng 1 939 football team. He wrote; v. a~ !l~rang~ or. s u en ea ers . 1 •t d 't eJtter mto t.o 1mtlate dtscuss10ns of the ques- \Whi e I oesn . t\ f ·h t t h ld b · , 1 1 1· tionfl u mon 10n o v. a spor s s ou e m- Rose Bow ca cu a ·' eluded what to call the league C 11 . . t through the season ' ' o ege wen t and whether non-league contests without a defeat. Th~ an~wer 0 should be considered. The meet- l . · •. r· 11 e rttn of v1ctones was . . ·mons I 1 , mg was postponed because of 1ts that they had one great p arri inconvenient date and was never S~m Hammerstrom~ I 1 ,!~he wl~~- res~heduled. might he called loos Y' k' Nothing else was done that · c !leue League \ one cor mg • . 10n o ,., h t'd f the year and no mentiOn of the league player can swing t e 1 .e orh was made on Concordy's Sport HeaHon. Such fellows JU~ bad- Page until November 22, 1954, pt>n along n'!w a~d ~~~nth; ;Tn~o~ I when, in an attempt to revive hauls them m .. · oit ht et better interest in the Little Iv:f ~eague, League. And It 1 !' g ~ 11 t I Concordy presented Tr~mty and for the colleg~s If .foot a ~en I Hobart with joint possession of like that in Wider Circles · - · the potted ivy plant symbolizing· p tted Ivy League Planned football supremacy in the confer- 0 ence. Both teams had completed The idea lay dormant until the undefeated, untied seasons. The spring following Union's last un- trophy was rather unceremon- defeated season, 1949. A Wil- iously awarded to Tufts the fol- liams College a1umnus proposed lowing season as enthusiasm for the formation of an ath'etic con- an official Litt1e Ivy League ference of several :::mall, North- seemed to have died almost com- eastern colleges. The propo~al pletely. included Williams, Amherst, M:d- Lambert Cup Established die bury, Union, Tufts\ B~wdom, The idea of forming a confer- and possibly Trinity. T ~ . ea'ftJ ence of small Northeastern col- referred to by colummst y e 1 leges received its death blow in Smith, the!'~ with the hNe~;p l~rd the fall of 1957 with the estab- Herald Tnbune, as t e 0 ef lishment of the Lambert Cup pre- IYy League,\ W!l 8 to be 1 ~n ° - sented to the best Eastern ~mall fkial 1oop awarchng am1Ua eag_ude coJlege football team A commit- championships. Pres~dent Davth- tee. of tweh·e coaches football snn had been wo~kmg f?r t e writers and broadcast~rs select formation of a simJla~· conferen·c~ the tea~ from a field of 100 col- . h arne to U mon m U:J4b. smcE> e <' • . d leges. The purpose of the Lam- Rochester. Tufts, Tnmth, /n t bert Cup is essentially the same Middlebury were amon.g t e 1 ~':\ as Professor Winne's ivy plant schoo1s to show an mterest 1 n to grant recognition to the foot~ such a league. . ball team that has shown prowess The following spnn~ (1951)' on the playing field, the main Concordiensis co1ummst, J?on difference being the larger num- Schwartz announc_ed that Umo~, ber of schools eligible. in favor of formmg an athletic The formation of a formal Lit- conference, would promote . a tie Ivy League has been men- counter proposal the followmg I tioned only once since the estab- fall. His plan was to .start the lishment of the Lambert Cup and l~:ague with whatpn•r mterested it seems that such a conference schools could l.J~ found, probahly will never materialize. Cnion, Hamilton, Middlehury, Tufts Rochester, and Hobart, and t~ arouse the interest of the other schools once the league was started. In the fall of 1951 Concordien- sis Sports Editor J ~1m Kennedy continued the promotwn of a co_n- ference refening to it as the Lit- tle Ivy League. Wi1ila!f1S was noted to he very much m fayor of the idea, but Wesleyan was strong in its objection. On 0~­ tober 2() 19a1, Kennl'd~· and h1s :,laff, al~ng with Admi~,;ion~ Di- rector Pearsun, formrrl the hypo- thetical Little Ivy Leagl.le :md listed standings of the teams. The schools involved were (in or- der of the standings) Roeheste1·, Williams, Bowdoin, :\iiddlehury, L'nion, Wesleyan, BatE's, RPI, Hamilton, Amherst, Vermont, Hobart, Tufts, Colhy, Haverford, and Swarthmore, but nothing happened. Winne Donates Ivy A major campaign to estab1ish the conference wa~ begun again in 1953 when Professor Winne, Tulip Bowl Bid At the end of the 1953 football season, in which Union compiled a 2-5 record, Union was reported in Concordiensis to have received a bid to face East Tennessee Tech. in the Tulip Bowl. Am- herst, as champions of the Little Ivy Leaglle, was offered the op- portunity to play, but declined because it was against school policy to play in a post season g-ame. Union was asked next be- cause of its efforts to form an official Little Ivy League. Con- cordy reported that Pre·sident Davidson and Dean Huntley were in favor of ac~ep·ting the bid and the team was to vote the next day. Sports Editor Martin Hauser stated his objections to Union's participation in a post season game and your editor quickly turned the pages of Concordy's annals to find that Union's Tulip Bowl bid was just a hoax cre- ated by Concordy's Senior Board. Thanks To ••• Chairman of the Biology Depart- Franz Gleich, g.occer coach, for m •nt, gave the project impetus establishing soccer at Union Col- by donating a rare ivy plant, the lege. Hedera-Helix Africans, that he John Mulligan for introducing brought with him from Liberia wrestling to Union in 1956. the summer before, as a trophy Bob Ridings for his work be- for the champion of the Potted hind the cage since 1955. Ivy League. After the foGtball Tom Cartmill for his service season, Amherst, with a 6-0-1 to the College and for his b&s- record, was chosen as the best ketb.all teams from 1956 to 1959. team in the Little Ivy League. Art Lawrence for many years Editor-inChief Herbert Spira and of devoted service to Union ath- Sports Editor Martin Hauser took letics. the ivy plant from Prufessor Wilford Ketz for his organi- Winne and traveled to Amherst zation of the athletic department where they presented the trophy and for his excellent track teams to James Barnes, President of the in the fifties. Amherst Student Council at an J. Harold Wittner for his for- open session of that body. Con- ty-five years of service to Union cordy's front page banner head-~ College as player, coach, and Di- }me that day read \Union's Ivy rector of Athletics. Football Team 7-0-1 SAM HAMMERSTROM In June, 1947 the announcement wa·s made that John Mc!Jaughry would be replacing Mel Rein, ex- N. Y. Giant center, as Union's football coach. McLaughry was to lead Union's gridders to two of its greatest seasons in his two years as coach. In 1948 ·the Dutchmen posted a 7-1 record de- feating St. Lawrence, Rochester, RPI, Hobart, Williams, Hamilton and previously undefeated Mid- dlebury. The defeat was suffered at the hands of the University of Vermont. In 1949 McLaughry coached the gridders to their third, and latest, unedefeated sea- son. The Garnet record was kept from being perfect when they were tied in <the season's next to last game by a Middlebury team out for revenge of the 1948 upset. McLaughry ended his short career at Union by accepting a post at Amherst College. Sam Hammerstrom, one of Union's greatest backs was appointed to succeed McLaughry. Hammer- strom led Union's 1939 team to a 7-0-1 season from his backfield position. In his eight years as coach Hammerstrom's teams continually improved from the 3-4-1 record pdsted in 1950 until they reached a highpoint of 6-2 in 1956. When asked what would stand out among his memories as a coach at Union Hammerstrom said, \Breaking even with Williams four times out of eight will cer- tainly be a pleasant memory. I'm sure I'll also remember losing to Amherst eight years running.\ Swimming RAY .MULLANE Without a doubt the most con- si'stent of Union's teams in the past eighteen years has been the varsity swimming squad. Since 1947 the swimmers have had only one losing season, fourteen win- ning campaigns and one year at .500. Coach Ray Mullane coached the natators through eleven suc- cessful schedules until he retired in 1958. He compiled a 73-29 l'ec- ord in his years as coach. Union's top mark recently was 9-1 in the 1962-3 season coached by Tony Turner. Records have been falling rather frequently in recent years. A highpoint was reached when the team finished fifth in a field of eleven in the ECSA relay car- nival held at Rutgers University in December, 1963. In October, 1952 President Da- vidson's son, Christopher, was in- strumental in Union's debeat by a strong Amherst football team. The Little Three team took the J)utchmen by a ~8-21 score. Chris Davidson was a 218 pound tac:kle for the New Englanders. Field House Built find themselves with an excellent record, team members As we entered the decade of • with E.C.A.C. honors, and prospects for a truly fine season .. , the fifties, serious thought was Coming into the new year, the@•>---------------- given to tl}e _ building of a Field Garnet has an overall record of M S 1• Hous:., Ongmal pla~s called for 5-2, being 4-0 in regular s~ason . · erffiCfl . P 1 t a str~cture compruable. to the play, &nd 1-2 in the holiday tour- RPI Field House_. In ~arch, 19~4, , nament. Up to this time, the ·0 b M however, the .Fmanc1al Comm1t- . Dut h e h ve successfully bat- CCClTI . er eetS tee ·Of the Board of Trustees • . c m n a M'ddlebu found that they had overstepped tied an~ d~feated , 1 . ry, By Gary VanGrafeiland their bounds and the bui:lding R.~.I., Norwich,, and H_arpur, ~Ill . . . . which was to have begun immed- pr10~ to t~e Chr1strnas 1ecess, d1s- The Umon College sw1mme1s iately would have tn be post- , ~laymg fme teal!lwork, ba~l-hand- defeated Harpur, 56-39 on Dec. poned . hng, and shootmg. Wh1le sue- 12, and three days later lost to · .· cumbing to Alfred and Kenyon in Oneonta State, 51-43. • 1 l On. T_uesday, Apnl 20, after tournament play the Garnet did Two pool records were set by ~~ ~tht~h~o;:ns~:~ct~~~nfi;~m~\:::i~ manage to defe~t a stro!l'g S_t. the Dutchmen at Harpur 1 thl'ee 1: dent Carter Davidson ' broke Lfafwrtence tteham. tNto~~:gldnel~~s at t Onde~ntf:::. as serfvermala~;;\;~mp:~sl ~ \ ground for the half million dollar e. or was e ou s a · · . - u~ne 1 ~, me. pe . or . ·, , 1 , • building. One and one half years. s1ve play of J?ave ~asper a_nd Sh1e~ds, gettmg m1:o sh~pe ac- I later Memorial Field House was . )3re!'ldan Hutchmson, m ~onta1~- cordmg to coach Beaudry, won , opened mg Al .Johnson, the Larr1es' b1g three races, the 50 yd. freestyle . I · . . . gun. On the offensive side De~y against Harpur, and the 200 yd. I . The two maJOI func~J?ns of ~h.e . Peskin hit double figures, scermg individual medley and 100 yd .. ,, ~ ~1eld ~<!use ~re provld,mg ~ac1I;- . ~6 poil!ts. In. the two games in freestyle against Oneonta. Dick ties fo1 _mdoor. tra.ck and for ea1-. m whtch Umon was defeated, Siers, \coming slowly,\ won the ly pr!!-ctlce of SPI'l!lg spor_ts. B~- . the Dutchmen were never out of 200 yd. backstroke at Harpur, I fore Its con~truc~wn Umon d1d . the game until the final few min- d h f th · _ ! 1 not compete m wmter track and . d an was a mem er o e VIC \'ij :!1 the tennis baseball and laeros·se utes, when the team JUSt seeme torious 400 yd. medley relay t7am. \ teams wer:e forced to practice in · to run out of gas. The Garnet Beaud~y commended both SJ:ields ~:.I· the gym was hurt by the absenee of Tom and Siers records and mentwned · Urbellis, due to injury and a sub- that both should be improved. par Ron Giancola who played They, along with Beaudry, \t hampered by illness. spent the vacation in Florida, l Field House under construction. Block \U\ Society Brown, Giancola-ECAC Coupled l.Jy its fine recor,d, the team finds two of its members with high honors, and the entire squad with some very commend- able statistics. Gary Brown, this year's captain, has been elected to the December ECA.C team, while Ron Giancola, who in one game pumped in 26 points, receiv- ed honorable mention from the same organization. In addition, the entire Garnet squad, accord- ing to national statistics, had a shooting percentage of 51 o/o, good enough for a ranking of tenth in th.e nation up until the time of the tournament. Their own coach has high In December, 1947, Bill Grant praise for the squad's perform- and Dick Roberts started a drive ance thus far- He cites their to reestab1ish the Block \U\ teamwork, desire, and hustle as Society that had not been func- exceptional, and notes that bench tioning since hefore World War morale is good. Coach E\·ans II. The Society was organized stated \I have nothing but praise to promote cooperation and to act . for this team.\ as a mediary between the Student Body and the Administration in Tomorrow the Garnet will face reference to all sports, intercol- Trinity here at Union. Coach legiate or intramural. That spring Evans admits that this will be a the annual Block \U\ Society difficult team to beat. The big Banquet was inaugurated. problem facing the Dutchmen wil1 be to contain Jim Belfiore and The Society was shortlived and Dan Overbeck, the two big men fell into oblivion again until an for Trinity. But with the kind effort was made in May, 1961 to of performanres the team has place the old organization back thus far turned in, this is entirely on its feet. Instrumental in the within the realm of possibility. new drive to firmly establish the With the continued success in the Block \U\ was football coach Joe new year that the Garnet found Maras. in 1964, a really fine season wil1 An announcement was made in be reali~ed. . March, 1962 to the effect that the Bock \U\ was to become an of- ficially recognized organiZiation. The following week its constitu- tion was approved by the Student Council. The aims of the Society were recognized to be the· pro- motion of interest in all Union College athletics. TOM URBELIS, who has been sidelined for most of the season with a shoulder injury, has been given medical clearance and will probably see action in Saturday night's game against .. Trinity. Urbelis, at 6'1\ will add strength and ability to Union's game. He was instrumental. in the the Gar-~ net victory over RPI in December. and got in plenty of swimming. i \ Also cited were Jim Mogal, Dave ! Rowe-\well conditioned; best , ~· since he's heen here\-and Dick Heyman. Seniors Bill Schauer, Phil Evans, George Papanicolaou and Jim Garrison were als·o in- cluded. \Senior stalwa'l.'ts, ex- perienced point getters\ :aeaudry called them. •. Record at 1-1 With its record now at 1-1, the varsity is preparing for a meet at Rochester tomorrow.' Al- •though, according to Beaudry, Rochester is \not as strong as Oneonta,\ this, in his words, \could be a fairly even meet.\ W es1eyan comes next, a home meet Wednesday at 3:00 .P.M. The Cardina1s are a tough, rea11y strong opponent. \They beat us last year,\ said Beaudry \and are strong again this year.\ \Both the varsity and the freshmen are getting into shape\ said the coach. \The varsity lacks depth, which the freshmen should provide.\ Just a note. Perhaps it would not be a bad idea if Union dropped State schools from its list of 4\ swimming opponents. Their prac- tice, legal though it may be, of swimming freshmen in varsity com-retition puts them in a slight- ly different class from Union. TiDit; Ct;nlt;l' Jt;w~;l~.-s YOUR JEWELISR AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 In addition to its annual awards banquet, concession at home foot- ball and basketball games, and hos'.;ing of visiting teams, the Block \U\ has sponsored bus trips to away grid contests and has shown movies of them. The organization also conducts an athlete of the month poll. It looks as if the Block \U\ is here to stay. Entire Stock Winter Outerwear Ann Arbor, Mich.-(I.P.)- There is \very good mutual un- derstanding\ between the Office of Student Affairs and the Wo- men's Conference Committee, commented Vice President for Student Affairs James A. Lewis of the University of Michigan as ne specified new regulations in women's hours. In its report to the OSA, the WCC noted that \it is knocwn that back door exits are being made after closing hours.\ . Changes: Junior women will have the same privileges as sen- ior women on Friday and Satur- day nights; previously, eight au- tomatic late permissions per semester of two hours each were allowed to the junior women. 20~o OFF White & Corduroy \LEVI'S DAV.E'S ~quir:e ~(Jnp E ~ 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 E ~~ Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 t ............................................... ,. InJ Tl:e Wednesda ternity ho freshmen, Cards The secor through ne. rush, which ing first ser past week be allowed day from 7 the fir:st bid' the second 1 !Ju rtan t tha 1}ast. Then more, Presi· ternity Cow not get mat should not I i:> .presen tl~ fraternity n Those eligil are named: in a list se Freshmen,, ered in the mit their 1 l·ven if it is fraternity r Many Two hun• bought rust <!red twent:y lists, ten of Twenty-eigl with any o Epsilon Pi number, 26. rna 1\appa, smallest nm large pledge at Delta Cl silon, 20. 'I Alpha Deltr Pi, 8; Delta 10; Phi Delt rna Delta, 7 Sigma Chi, L' psi! on, 10; The averag• ent is 11.4 Tidn Hea~ By l\ Dr. Elme founder of l Music and highest ranl died on Jam 73. Tidman Department thirty years in 1956. During h Tidmarsh ta music appre ored by the of Music D1 clition to te 700 free c• Chapel an• throughout where he w1 ron:ributiom Ac Dr. Tidnu Thursday M nectady sine the former and was org tor of the Church. He Musical Clu active in H Club. He also er prestige on ; one of the VI crganists, h leading cath ing his sur years he g American C: in recent- su play at the dral, an hoh• t\ a very se fessionally noted music! Liebert, and Receives Dr. Tidm Guilmant 0 York City, f ~:~.h Associat Organists d

