Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 94 - No. 24 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., SATURDAY, MAY 8, 1965 PRICE 15 CENTS McCray Awarded Bailey Cup; Council Principle Comprehensive Education; Approves ,Catlin Prize Goes To Berko~itz Of By :Matthew Katz Lawtence McCray, a 5-year en- gineer, was presented with the coveted Bailey · Cup during the Pdze Day ceremonies this morn- ing. This award honors Frank Uai ey ('85), and is given to the senior who has rendered the greatest service to the College in any field. Delphics Entertain Parents With Full Program C · ontent Still U ndet · ermined Comprehensive Education was approved in theory by the Faculty Council Monday. The actual content of these new courses was left almost entirely undetermined. A host of other prizes and scholarships were announced. Among them was the George H. Catlin Prize, awarded to Arnold · Berkowitz. The $1,500 prize goes to that graduating senior in lib- eral arts with highest scholastic record and deemed most promis- ing for graduate study and for _ eventual service in the field of · college teaching. Carl G. See- fried, Jr., won the RCA Scholar- ship for science students, which amounts to $800. The Ralph W. Steams Prize, which is awarded to junior electrical engineering students for designing a new JHece of teaching equipment, was won by Richard T. Bobilin and Clark A. Hamilton. Both will re- ceive $500. Robi.Jin also won an $800 scholarship from Western Electric. The scholarship is open to electrical engin-eering students. The Council action reserves eight term courses in the new curriculum to be de- voted to general education. The greatest opposition to the overall plan of the Curricular Affairs Committee centered around these requirements for general education. ~on-Divisional Awards There were many non-division- al awards. The Albany Chapter .:\ational Accounting Association certificate was given to David Murray, Jr.; Albany Chapter of Financial Executives Institute plaque, David E. Cohen; Alan Lake Chidsey Citizenship A ward, \'ictor M. Fazio, Jr.; Joseph Daggett Prize, Victor M. Fazio, Jr.; Delphic Society Faculty Award, Mr. Frank Gado; Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference Award, .Brendan P. Hutchinson, Thomas Judson Memorial Book l'rize, Charles E. Treat; Paul J. h .. ruesi Prize, Alexander J. Karr; William A. Pike Memorial Tro- phy, Robert l\1. DeMichele; Leon- ard Suskind Award, Professor Clifford Pearce; Horatio G. War- ner Cup, Martin E. Jay; Lee Wrubel Memorial Prize, Richard L. Frioli; Eugene I. Yudis Prize, Rodham E. 'l'ulloss. In the Humanities Department, awards were given to the follow- ing: Raymond N. Okafor, Alli- ance Francaise Prize; Arnold Herkow1tz, Andrew W. Archibald Prize; Garrett Hitchcock, The Hispanic Society of Schenectady Prize; Carl G. Seefried, Jr., Charles B. Hurd Prize; Dale A. Schneider, Robert G. O'Neale Prize; Helmut J. Altnador, Elias Peissner Prize; Lawrence E. Mc- Cray, Daniel F. Pullman Prize; Daniel V. Scully, Charles Alex- ander Richmond Prize; Robert S. Hoffman, Douglas W. LaBier, and Lawrence A. Baldassaro, William F. Allen Essay Pr1zes; and Rodham Tulloss, Ameriean Academy of Poets Prize. Division II Prizes In the Social Studies Division, :he following awards were pre- sented: Mr. and Mrs. Marks Frankel Prize, George M. Ulrich; Oswald Heck-Irwin Steingut Prizes, A Ion Jeffrey and Oscar Rosenbloom; Harold A. Larrabee i'rize, R. Waldron Williams; Mil- ( Continued on Page 5) Rosen Exhibits In Old Chapel ------- - --- - -- -- - -- -- - -- 1' The Divisions of Science and Social Studies mustered narrow majorities in approving the new SC Prexy Candidates Cite CanJpus Issues · ceurses and the preceptorial pro- . gram in their meetings last week. The other aspects of the pro- posal, on the other hand, includ- ing a three term calendar and By Ted Kreinik other curriculum revisions met Running for the office of Student Council President with almost unanimous accep- for the academic year 1965-66 are Richard Sifton, '66 and tance. The calendar was approved last week, and the curriculum Raymond Pike, '67. Jeff Ratner and Larry Ludwig both was accepted along with Compre- of the junior class are vying for the office of Secretary of hensive Education. ' Thirty-six the Council. ' The elections will be held on Monday, May 10. courses, including a foreign This past Tuesday morning at • · language, \\'ill he required for 11 :30 in Memorial Chapel the · · graduation for all students enter- candidates were introduced to PBK s I · ing the college in September the student body. Speeches were e ects 1966 ' and thereafter. Of the P -k · . thirty-six courses, a maximum of · given by Sifton and 1 e m- dicating their positions on many 2 2 s • twenty-three and a minimum of issues of concern to the college. en l 0 r s tweh·e will he needed for a ma- Sifton Speaks jor. The remaining courses will include eight term courses in the Emphasizing his experience in Twenty-two seniors were elect- field of General Education. 'worki,ng with both the administra- ed to Phi Beta Kappa on Friday, tion and the student body, Sifton April 30. These men were chosen htressed his concern over the from the top ten percent of their questions of faculty salaries, stu- class 011 the basis of their out- dent participation in Student standing character and scholar- Council acti\'it:es and Council ship. participation in the college's development program. Sifton has Students Elected Concert with Union orchestra and glee club will take place tonight. held numerous positions which he belie\'ed would qualify him for the post including Student Coun- By Bill Lasnil1: cil representative, member of The Delphic Society is hosting an estimated 700 parents at the several All-College Councils, and 15th Annual Union College Parent's Weekend May 8 and · 9, on the managing editor of the Concordi- college campus. . . . . ensis. In these posts he stated Prize Dar exerc1ses, JUSt completed, marked the h1gh pomt of that he has been able to come the weekend program. At the ceremonies, which took place today to grips with the problems he at 11:30 A.M. in Memorial Chapel, more than 40 undergraduates would have to face as President. received 55 prizes, totalling nearly $10,000 in cash value. Pil{e's Contentions At 10:00 this morning, three faculty members · spoke as part of Pike's main contention in his the Delphic Lectures ser)es. William T. Winne, Profes'~_or. of Botany speech was with the Jack of stu- and Chairman of the B10logy Department, spoke on Vignettes of Old Union.\ \Planned Obsolesc-ence: A Way of Life,\ was the sub- dt-nt participation in campus af- ject about which Edward J. Craig, Professor of Electrical Engineer- fairs and the resulting growth ing, talked. Joseph Finkel»tein, Professor ~f History and Economics·, of apathy at Union. He cited his discus-sed \The Common Market: An Intenm Report.\ qualifying experiences as Presi- Fourteen senior candidates for Second Lieutenant commissions dent of his freshman class, fresh- received awards at the AFROTC Parade earlier today. The 26th man dorm counselor, and member · · ' A' F B d J d t th · of the All College Council. He Air Div1 s 10 n s Ir orce an . pei·1orme a e ceremomes. I h 1 d - Th C . 1 D' e pe orgamze e ap1ta IS- Sports Planned 1 trict Intercollegiate Council, and Athletics for the .,,·eekend include a varsity tennis contest be- j sponsored its first meeting here tween Union and Rochester at 2:00 P.M., a 2:30 baseball game with I at. Hale House. He has been ac- Rochester at Alexander Field, and a varsity lacrosse game against 1 . tive in the Student Council in Trinity, 2:30, at Daley Field. (Continued on Page 5) (Continued on Page 5) - ---- Those elected are: Martin Jay, History; Arnold Berkowitz, Eng- lish; Thomas Boright, Mathe- matics; Oscar Rosenbloom, Gov- errunent; Richard Aron, Mathe- matics; Stuart Morse, History; Lawrence Dittleman, economics; Robert Hoffman, Pre-Med; Wil- liam . Dunning, Mathematics; James Upton, History; Helmut Altneder, Modern Languages; Larry Horowitz, Pre-Med; Mar- tin Cohen, economics; Alon Jef- frey, Government; Michael Gold- berg, Division III; David Ander- son, English; Herbert Holder, Physics; Stephen lsser, Chemis- try; Thomas DiCerbo, Mathe- matics; John Wright, Physics; Lawrence McCray, Electrical En- gineering and English (5-year); Charles Pankenier, English; and Michael Berson. Pre-Med. Union's chapter, the Alpha of ~ew York, was founded in 1817. (Continued on Page 5) G. Wescott M,OrSe Deplores Vietnatn Policy Reminisces About H20's\ lly Mike Rothman (i enway Wescott, an expatri- ate writer of the twenties, will ddiver a lecture on Tuesday morning, May 11, in Memorial Chapel, entitled, \The Memories of the Twenties.\ The topic of the lecture will concern the Ex- patriate Years in Paris. Wescott will discuss some other importnat figures of this most vital literary movement - Hemingway, Fitz-~ gerald and Anderson. Contents Unresoh:ed The nature, objectives, and cvntent of leve's of competence to be achieved by Comprehensive Education courses have been left unresolved at this time. Com- mittees of th-e faculty will be responsible for finding answers to these problems by January, 1966, at which time the Faculty Council will enact the necessary legislation for these courses. Most of the objections to the new curriculum plans cen-tered around the Comprehensive Edu- cation courses and the precep- torial program of instructi<m. The feeling that teaching outside of one's own field threatened in- dividual professionalism was l1eard extensively from members of Di\'isions II and III. In the Division of Sciences, where the curriculum proposals were passed by just over a majority, there were .nisgivings about \learning together/' in which the student and the instructor would explore unfamiliar \\·orks together for the first time. Time Wasted In having to read or re-read material with which he was not familiar, the preceptor would be using a considerable amount of his time, time which he could not afford, several of the professors in Division III argued. Moreover in teaching outside of his field of competence, the preceptor would not be giving his students ~he fu II extent of his skill and knowledge. These same ojections were also brought up in a petition of some of the newly elected members of Phi Beta Kappa. The petition, which was submitted to Dean (Continued on Page 5) Inauguration To Be Held October 1-2 On Tuesday afternoon, at 2:30, V.escott will address Professor Gado's creath·e writing class. All students wishing to direct - questions to Mr. Wescott should I A one-man exhibition of paint- nquest permission from Profes- Union College has set Octobe 1 · ng and sculpture will be on dis- sur Gado so that all might have, I anrl 2 as the dates for formal play in Old Chapel between May a seat during this period. At ' inauguration of Dr. Harold C . .!-May 15. 4:00, on Wednesday afternoon, he: \ Martin as the 14th President of The work was done by Steven ·will read from a prose-poem, I t the College. !{osen, a five-year electrical en- \Valley Submerged.\ In addition, I ' The inaugural weekend will ~ineering and art major, as a there will be an exhibit at the Union students picket befDre Wayne Morse's talk Tuesday. open with an informal dinner on 11art of his major field require- li~rary of alJ h.is w~rks. All of 1 By Marty Rtrosbet·g Friday night, October 1, followed ments. Most of the works on h1s .noYels still m prmt are now i Outspoken and controversial critic of American this military policy in Asia is not strengthening hy ceremonies of im·estiture, a ~xhibition, including oils, water- available at the Book Store. ' policy ih South Vietnam. Senator Wayne Morse freedom in Vietnam or gaining friends of allies lunC\heon and reception for in- ··olors, charcoal and wash, a cer- Harper Prize Winner 1 1 addressed the U~ion College Communit~ at a in Asia. augm·al guests, and other events amic piece; and two stone sculp- . May 4 ConvocatiOn. The Se?J-ator's topic was Why Fight? on Saturday. ·.ures, were executed under Union \Yescott acluev~d great success i \To What Purpose War In As1a.\ . \The whole object of the war effort is to con- In becoming President of .upervisiot;~ at t~e Schenectady dunng the twent1es when .he was 1 The Senator, !i member of the Senate Foreign tain China and to keep the other nations of Asia Cnion Colloge, Dr . Martin will :\luseum hfe-drawmg class. ~warded the Harper Pnze for 1 Relations Comm1ttee and former Senate reprc- from falling into her sphere,\ the Senator stated. also assumP the Chancellorship New Exhibit his novel, The Grandmothers.\ sentative to the United Nations, expressed vehe- HowevN, he went on to say that the use of mili- of Union Fniversity, of which Opening at three o'clock, May Like Hemingway and Fitzgerald, mently his opposition to the Johnson Administra- tary means to reach that end is destroying the the College is the senior com- lG, will be a Student-Faculty ex- his reputation declined during tion's handling of the Vietnam :probl~m. , verr Pnd itself by driving the countries we are · ponent. hibit, featuring work by Union · ~he D~J?r~ssion era_, when _ Marx-! Morse stat~d that the 'Yar m V1etnal? .1s a trying to save into opposition. Planning for the inauguration art students in Old Chapel and 1st cr1tlc1sm was m vogue. A~- much the making of the Umted Sta~es,as 1~ ~s of Power Struggle · is in the hands of a special com- faculty work in the Nott Me- cording to Professor Gado, his 1 any other country and that ~menca s mthtary Of the six major powers in Asia (Soviet Union, mittee headed by Prof. Sven R. morial building. Refreshments _ l ' edi~covery has not yet become 1 leaders ~re furthermo~·e planmng to step up the China, India, Pakistan, Japan, and Indonesia), the · Peterson, Chairman of lhe De- will be served in Old Chapel. l'eahty. war '<lgam'st North VIetnam. He contends that (f'on.tinued on Page 5) · partment of Philosophy. .. : ' •I \

2 Union's Dialogue: Liberalize Phi Beta Kappa! Dr. Davidso.n Takes {'Junk'' To Capital A: I have always maintained that the criterion for selection to Phi Beta Kappa at Union College is much too •strict. B. I am not quite sure I know what you mean when you say that the criterion is too strict. A: What I mean is that in this area, as in most othet·s, Union College tenqs to be overly consen·- ative. What are we trying to do? Make a Union Phi Bete the equal to a Harvard Phi Bete ? Even if he is, he will not be considered his equal. B. What evidence do you have which could pos- sibly convince me of your abs~:trd argument? Are you going to tell me that Union's standards for admission to Phi Beta Kappa are that much tougher than the standards at schools of com- parable quality? By Larry Briskman By Carter Davidson Now it certainly seems absurd for a .school like You nsked me to serve as your Union to ask so much more of its Phi Bets than Washington correspondent and a school like Yale asks. As it is now, I would write you occasionally about a.f- venture to say that the Union Phi Bete is as good, fairs here, so that this is my first if not better, than the average Phi Bete at Yale. letter from the Capital. But how many people in our achievement-moti- vated society realize this fact'! To the greater Settling In communiuty outside of the cloistered college cam- Although we have been he1·e · pus, the Yale Phi Bete wiU always be \\'orth more two months, we are not yet really than the Unic;m Phi Bete. settled. I think you will under- Saturday, May 8, 1 965 \'&o wEsT , 'YOUNG MAN·· A: That is exactly w:hat I base my entire argu- ment on. Take the case at Williams College for instance. The Phi Bete chapter there elects mem- be!'S at the end of either their fifth, 'sixth, sev- enth or eighth semesters. At Union we elect only during the eighth semester. At Williams a Junior needs only the equivalent of a 3.2 index to be elected to the chapter and the chapter can take up to 7~'c of the Junior class. At Union we us- ually average about 8 or 9% of the Senior class in the cha.pter and the criterion is about a 3.5 overall index. The Williams chapter also elect'S seniors who have a 3.2 with or without their freshman grades. CPI'tainly you cannot deny that these rriterion for election to Phi Bete are much more liberal than our standards. stand why, when I tell you how· B: Aren't you then advocating that w.:! lower we moved. In moving from a standards to suit th<:> society''s ~onception of the sixteen-room house, where we En ion Phi Bete? had spread out for nineteen A: To a certain extent, yes. But we must remem- vears, into a two bedroom and ber that Union functions as a pa1•t of the greater living room apartment, required society and must, at least to a certain degree, be a g1·eat deal of elimination, se- receptive to the social situation in which the Col- lection, and donation. Despite lege is functi011>ing. But putting this is'sue aside, our best efforts, the moving van. don't you feel that the Phi Beta Kappa chapter was solidly packed when it ar- ---------------------------- should play an integral role in the life of the rived ~n Washington. I had gone campus? ahead to direct the unloading, B. I cannot dispute the fact that these standards are lower than ours, but what can be the justifi- cation for such low ·standards in the selection to the highest honor that a co1lege can bestow on its students? according to a chart which my B: Certainly. wife had prepared. When the van A: Well, the way we now elect the membership to arrived, I helped the movers get our chapter there are never any ·student members in position, and then stood at the of the chapter on campus fm; any extended period door of the apartment ready to of time. We have only the basically lethargic fac- tell them where all the pieces ulty members who certainly do not have. the time were to go. Their .first load con- to devote to chapter activities. I would advocate sisted of three large cartons. that the only way we can have an influential Phi When they got to the door of Bete on campus is by electing Some members in the apartment, I said, \You read their junior year. In thi's way we not only get the labels and I will tell you an active chapter, but also one with some degree. where they go.\ The mover stag- of continuity. · gered in under the first carton, put it down, and looked at the B: I hate to admit it ,but I have to agree with label. He scratched his head in you on this essential point. It is the only feasible puzzlement, and then said, \This way to get an influential chapter on our campus. , b 1 Certainly the voice of the intelligent and intel- one says 'clutter. \ 0 vious y, lectual students on this campus has long been this wasn't on the chart, so we ignored. The only alternative would be to organ- placed it in the hall closet. The ize an active Mensa chapter on campus. second carlton gave him even more difficulty, when he reported A. The justification? Why the justification should be self evident to all but the thickest heads. The justification is that it is simply unfair to expect more of our Phi Bete than Williams expects of hers. In fact, at Yale the top 25% of the grad- uating class is elected to membershi·p each year. A: A bit impractical, \'l\ouldn't you say? that it was labeled \junk so it was placed on top of the first. B: Certainly. But when he looked at the third, he burst out into hysterical Letters to the Editor laughter and said, \I don't be- 'ieve it. This one says 'Easter Eggs.'\ Well, that's how the Da vidsons moved to Washington. Mosley Alive! To the Editor of Concordiensis: Sir: I have become aware of diverse stories that appear to be circulat- ing on the Campus and in the Town regarding the state of my health and my intentions as for the future. I wt·ite to deny the truth of each and every one of those stories. In case the process continues, nnd my death is reported later this week, I take this opportunity to cteny that story also. Yoms Truly, Alan Mozley Prof. of Biology i tion as president of the Class of '67 last year because the time drained away from his studies by the position left his scholar- ship in, at best, a perilous posi- tion. Sifton, on the other hand, is an Honors student this year and will be in that position again in his senior year. While maintaining a high standard of scholarship, he has also held positions of im- portance on Concordy and Stu- dent Council, is now president of his fraternity, and, on top of all of these responsibilities, carried a 10-hom· grant for two years. It seems to me that Mr. Pike lacks the ability to simultane- ously meet his responsibilities as I a student and an office holder. Criticizes Candidate If, while student body president . . . . • next year, he should decide to To the Ed1tor of Concordiensis. alot the time and energy so ob- that he can maintain a (if the word may be ex:cused) balance Experiences between the curricular and the One of the most interesting ex- extra-curricular and other obli- neriences on. my new job has gations. been visi,ting the campuses of a While the qualifications and dozen or more colleges and ideals of both candidates may be speaking to faculty and student sufficient to warrant election, I bodies. On every campus I found cannot help but feel that prefer- interesting concern O\'et· the ence must be given to the candi- Berkeley developments and a date who will not place himself, feeling that the inclusion of the his position, and the student body voice of the student body· in mat- in jeopardy. ters of college policy is a must; David L. Kohn, '66 not that each new freshman class should be allowed to change all the rules and reconstruct the col- MR. PIKE REPLIES: It has lege according to its pattern, but come to pass that one of the is- that the changes which must in- sues of this campaign seems to evitably occur will be brought be my grades. True, I did with- about as a result of discussions draw from the candidacy for re- between faculy, students, admin- election of my class. My grades istration, and trustees, with par- suffered during that administra- ents and alumni certainly also I tion because I didn't study, not contributing. In this conne~tion, I because I couldn't handle the job you will be interested to know 1 · Skidmore Editor Reflects On Greasy ''News'' Image The following is an editorial which appeared in the 'May 6th issue of the SKJ.D:MORE NEWS. The glass of a grease-stained mirror reveals a kaleidoscope of varied impres·sions. Like the witch in Snow White, the editors of the Skidmore News look, and reflect with glory upon their efforts. Perhaps not the fabest of them all, we muse, but pretty darned close. Last Thursday, April 29, we were graciously invited to ev- perience a lesson of \see yourself a;s others see you.'' So that's how !I we look! Punctured Balloon , The mirror we have used for our sessions in self-criticism amaz- :.& ingly reflects only the finest journalistic 'style, the most decorative 1 of layouts, the most pulsing and provocative headlines. The Skid- more News, we exclaim, is alive, vital, dynamic; and now, alas, some- one has punctured our balloon. We are asked, as we rub our wounds, if it hurt. Hurt? Wlh.y no,, of course not. Well, perhaps. But, we maintain, there is, there must' be, a cause behind all of this. There is a major fallacy in theii' criticism: their mirror is di·S<torted-they see our faults! Our writ- ing style becomes imperfect, occasionally mundane, often redundant. In their eyes. Out· carefully cihosen words are made a mockery of. In their eyes. We are puzzled, but are we defeated? We refuse to go down with a whimper. Perhap·s the gentlemen from Union College do not t'ealize that Skidmore girls have been known to kick bacld Please, D{)n't Tell Us We do not see these f,aults which they see. We do not acknowl- edge any of them; except the ones whi·ch are true. In short, and in conclusion, you look in your mh'l'Or and we will look in ours. But, don't tell us, please don't tell us, that they are both the same. Ah well, our balloon is inflated again. Our mirror, slightly cracked, is back on the wall. Odd though, how different we look writing paragraphs with tongue slightly inserted in cheek. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager fl·ee!y Yow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLA US RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. As we are about to change ad- viously necessary for him to pull ministrations within the college himself up to a scholastically re- hierarchy, so are we about to spectable position, then his ef- elect a new head of the student fectiveness in his elected position body. Since the sturlents are per- cannot help hut be proportion- mitte~ a \\O.ice in the. selection ately reduced, if he should decide of thtr prestdent, I \nll confine to devote himself to the enorm- myself to this issue. ous responsibilities of his elected What I would like to specific- position, it is questionable as to ally focus upon is the possibility whether he would be pres.ent sec- of eaeh candidate not only ful- vml semester t~ fulfill h1s. role. tilling his obligations while he What his logJC may .be m ~e­ is president of the student body, lieving that he would Jeopardi.ze but his remaining in the position his position as a student wh1le for the duration of his term. being presiqent of th~ sop~omore of a student and an office holder. that I found the Union College My present index is completely All-College Council a device I unknown to Mr. Kohn, unfortu- which appealed to many as a way nately; and, I can assure him in which this conYPrsation ran that I wouldn't think of jeopar- h~ encouraged. The student!'!, · dizing the highest elected office faculty, and administration at, \-' on the campus. I've been in Stu- Union may be devising a pattern · dent Government for two years which wi11 be an influential model/ hel·e at Union and I have too on other campuses. I much respect for the new council Cordially yours, Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 Mother Ferro's Restaurant It is my understanding that class 1 but will not be unper1led b;v ;ltlr. Pike has, to this date, strug- his becoming student body presl- gled through his academic career dent (a position which, as Mr. at t:nion with a cumulative index Pike must be aware, demands beLow 2.0. I also understand, if vast amounts of. time? maturity, the words of his classmates may\ and energy. ) 1s d1fficult to he tt·usterl, that Pike wi·thdrew fathom. from the candidacy for re-elec- Sifton, however, has proven Campus Calendar Friday, May 7, 1965 8:00-Debate: Union vs. Hamilton; Topic: Resolved t~at Woman was the second mistake of God; Memorial Chapel Saturday, May 8, 1965 11:30-Prize Day Convocation; Memorial Chapel 2:00-Tennis: Union vs. Rochester; Tennis C<lurts 2:30-Lacrosse; Union vs. Trinity; Daley Field 2:30-Baseball; Union vs. Roche·ster; Alexander Field 8:00-Concert; Glee Club & Band; Memorial Chapel 8:30-Mountebanks Play; \Hippolytus\; Nott Memorial Rnnday, .:.\lay 9, 1965 11 :00-Worship Service; Memorial Chapel 7:30-Knowledge Bowl; WRUC; Phi Epsilon Pi vs. South College Monday, May 10, 1965 Student Body Elections: President: Ray Pike vs. Richard Sifton; Secretary, Larry Ludwig vs. Jeff Ratner Tuesday, May 11, 1965 11 :30-Convocation; Speaker: Glenway Wescott, author; Me- morial Chapel . 7:30-Student Council Meeting; Hale House Student Lounge 8:0U-Concert; Union-Skidmore Orchestra; Memorial Chapel Wednesday. May 12, 1965 3:00-Fr~shman Track; Union vs. RPI; Alexander Field 8:00-Blatchford Omtorical Contest; Nott Memorial 8:15-Hispanic Society Meeting; Silliman Hall members, and their eonstitutents, as well as my own, to jeopardize this position, and the faith they have expressed in me by nomin- ating me for Student Body Presi- dent. My present activities include Dorm Counseling, CDICC repre- sentative, Student Council Oper- · ations Committee, Gatesmen, Arnold Air Society, and a 10 hour grant, as well as a respec- table index. In short, I wouldn't be here if I didn't think I belong here. Have Your Watch Repaired Right! •.. Right Here! Bring it in and let our specialists look it over. Reliable service is our watchword. And for new beauty, re·style your watch with a smart- I(je/s!el' WATCHBAND Time Center Jewelers 428 State St. FR 4-0183 Carter Davidson Specializing in Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PATRONIZE PIZZA YOUR FINALS! Free Parking Dl 6·9554 1 I 15 Barrett St. DRIVE - IN CHOW UP SNACKS TO DINNERS DAILY TO MIDNIGHT AT SCOTIA BRIDGE ,,1urday, May P)lbhshed Frtd year by thP St College. S<·hen tional Adverti N a. tiona! Adve· Coll•ge Puhlle 420 Mndison· A BARRY NEW~!. JEFFftl>lY Sl'l!ll RICHARD SIF'f MARK KASOW ROBI~RT STOL: ANDY COLB 'U PA'UL SHERWI ARNOLD KAT?. ~!ATTHEW KA HENRY l•'ElllG l Alon Jeffrey •u, Lau1·. IH'l' H. 1:-olo Donald Sch,.-varl Robert Rosent hl Jost.>l'h Rha<·t'~t· StPv~n Arl(off \\rillian1 Lit\UO\\' Xat Ste\'ens 'G8 Compre boo;ks in a p nothing. Lit )f courses i :eptorial ide n more tha md we can vther year. The prE rough grom vwn fields t fore an agre content mm school is no so much th: crity. Mor~ The co to do with and the U rights of o who would make deatll States has ' those who~ The va recent yea1 America wl For the m.o crises\ and burgeoning from natior whileengag Our a< are case in there- w1 ernment. \ OAS we u establish o half of Hi: knowledgea nize these f to die in tl principles v The St can now re Probably, 1 that the fig religious st ·surely bed is a valid e Spring firmary, w who are s1 process er1 outangs an heads it m line sometl In thi: the studen behavior. are desigiJ campus WE Weekend 1 cadence bl1 elsewhere. Any I blocked to a relaxati< tions agair long run, occur on · stem the t

1965 •''\ ..... \ ' .. of ditors {)f r efforts. y darned to ev- how !I [I amaz-:Jl 1 Skid- as, some- Why no,, must\ in their writ- of. In to go College back! acknowl- and in urs. But, , slightly \Ye look '?\ • \\ ph ere St. ,(turday, May 8, 1965 3 Curriculum Revisions: Pros-Cons Letters. illnnrnr P)lbilshed Fridays during the school year by t·he Student Body .of Union Col!ege, Sc•henectady, N. Y. Na· tiona! Advertising Representative: J:'ntional Advertising Service, Inc .. Col!•g• Publishers Representative. 4~0 l\!Rdiaon Ave .. N. Y. C~ '\ditorlal Office, Old Qym, Union College, Publlcation Office, Sche· nectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered. In the Sche· nectady Post ·Office as Second Class Mall Matter. Subsc:r.lptlon 1·5c a l'Opy: $2, a year delivered anywhere in the· United States. i'mMOR BOARD BARRY NEW.:II.\:-1 'u7 ... 3 77-9884 ............................... Editor-in-Chief JEFF'H!JJY SPECTUH 'uu ..................... ;; 77-U884 .......................... Uusiness Manager RiCHARD SIF'rON 'Gil. ...................... ;; 46-9730 ............................ :\Janaglng Editor 31ARK KASOWITZ '67. . .. ........................... News Editor ROBgRT STOLZB!~RG 'll7 ....... ... .. . .... F~ature Editor ANDY COLB '67.......... ... .. .. ................................... Sports Editor . PA'IJL SHERWIN 'G7 ................................................................................ Lltcrary Editor · ARNULD KATZ '66.. .. ........... .. ........................................ Consulting Editor ~IATTHEW KATZ '67.. .. ...... .............. .. ...... Page Edito~ RE~RY J•'ElHG l •so:-; · 611 .. .......... ...... . Faculty Advisor ;Jl l'OIOR BOARD Alon Jeffrey • Go..................... .. .. ............................................. Contributing Editor · Laur. nc~· H.t~l<lllU.tl .ti~ ... . . .................... AHsistant I·\'~utun-'s I~clitor Donald Schwartz '67.......... .. . . . ...................................... Assistant Literary Editor Robert Rosenthal '67...... ...... .. ..................................... Subscription ::.rana.ger JuSt.'l>h ~ha<·t'~r 'ti 7 .............. Nationa:l Adve1·tising Manager Stf'Vt.>n Arl<ofl '67........ . .. . ....... CirL\ulatlon Manager \\rilliant Lit>Lowitz · G~ .. . ............................... Photographer :-.:at SleYens 'GS ............ . ......................... Sports Photographer , Another Year Comprehensive Education ~1as been. pla~ed ?n . the boo,ks in a piecemeal manner wh1ch, at this pomt, s1gmfies nothing. Little has been decided upon beyond the number )f courses in the program. Neither the fate of the pre- ·eptorial idea nor specific course content was determined ~ more than an ephemeral form by the Faculty Council, md we can expect no concrete information for still an- c~ther year. The precept is a fine ideal, hut it will encounter such rouo-h ground among faculty who wish to remain in their vwt. fields that major qualifications must be attached be- fore an agreement is reached. Similarly, the issue of course content must also seek a happy medium. As a result 1 ~he school is now confronted by the danger of comprollllSmg so much that the plan will become a concensus on medio- crity. Morality or Expe·diency The college student, !Dore than ever, .wan~s nothing to do with war. When Hitler was rarnpagmg m Europe, and the United States was indisputably defending the rights of oppressed millions, the senses of those youths who would challenge tyranny w:ere sufficiently incense~ to make death in battle worthwhile. But today the Umted States has ceased to uphold such high ideals for many of those who are subject to the conscript. The various ventures of this country's government in recent years have done much to pervert the vision of America which seemed so heroic in our fifth grade texts. For the most part students have had their fill of \major crises\ and the threats to the \free world.\ There is a buro-eoning movement on campuses to become disass?ci.ated fro~ national policies which mo';lthe the democrati~ ~deal while engaging in the most deteshble form of real poiitique. Our activities in the Dominican Republic this week are case in point. This country is not defending freedom there - we are not even supporting any detectable gov- ernment. With utmost disregard for the charter of the OAS we unilaterally intervened to vertiably create and establish our own form of government on t!w . eastern half of Hispaniola. There are not a few thmkmg and knowledgeable college students in America w~o recog- . nize these facts and shudder at the thought of bemg forced to die in the name of mangled forms of the democratic principles which this nation reveres. Curricular Revision. Advocates Radical By Dean Theodore Lockwood T HE Faculty Council has approved a three-term, three-course academic ~al­ endar, a new approach to general educatron, and a limitation on the major. These rec- ommendations will now go before the Board of Trustees. What do they seek to accom- plish? These eurricula.r proposals will, we hope, permit the student sustained attention to three courses only, during each t~n-week term, will provide him a challf!ngmg ~e­ quence of courses in general studres outsrde his area of concentration, and wilt leave him time for electives in even the most ex- acting programs of specializ:;t.tion .. Quite properly, recent discussrons have centered primarily on the program of Com- prehensive Education outfi:ned in the report fl'Om the Curricular Af- fail's Committee. The Faculty Council held a prolonged discussion of the questions and criti- cisms raised by many faculty, particula1·ly with respect to the kind of courses illust1·ate<l.· in the report. On the one hand, faculty have expressed disappointment in the present i'equirement's; on the other hand, there is never an easy or obvious way to assure a liberal educatiC>n. In reviewing the purposes which a program of. general edu- cation should fulfill, set forth m a preamble to the proposal adopted, the Coun~il ~on­ eluded that it should express an mstitu- tional commitment to work out a new pat- tern of course·s in general education, com- bining the elective principle with perhaps some common courses. Failure to accept such a commitment would have been a de- nial of the premises upon which the faculty rejected the Da:ridson calendar in 1963 :1;nd according to which they agreed to estabhsh a Curricular Affairs Committee as an ad- visory body. Objections to Comp. Ed. However, the kind of objection raised about the particular format of general edu- cation de'scribed in the Committee's report of March, 1965, seemed serious enough to prompt a different approach. For example, the Council coneluded that the desire to in- clude expository writing and the theory .of rhetoric in the freshman year and the In- terest in a disciplined analysis of major topics in Western . civilization sprang _from a genuine reservabon about t?o sweepmg. a departure from the prC>fesswnal oomnut- ments of the faculty and merited further discussion before any final outline for the freshman courses come to the Council for approval. Similarly, faculty cC>ncern about the sen- ior courses in Comprehensive Education prompted the 9ouncil to reque~t car~ful study of the kmd of cC>urse which might best complete the 'sequence designed to achieve the goals of general education. Yet, the Council was reluctant to declare in ad- vance that no course in Comprehensive Ed- ucation should be required after comple- tion of the four optional courses in the sophomo1·e and junior years, especially in view of the fact that eight terms of Com- prehensive Education stm comprise only 22% of a student's total program, as op- posed to the present 25 'Ia + in basic courses and distributional requirements (excluding foreign languages). For example, the Coun- cil wants the faculty to consider whether guid-ed independent study in specific areas leading to a special examination, or addi- tional option's, might more effectively meet the goals of Comprehensive Education dur- ing the upperclass years than the kind of course originally suggested. \Middle Years\ Only on the four options required during the \middle years\ did the Council sense an immediate acceptance of the attempt to introduce new courses explicitly de'Signed to acquaint students not majoring in a field with the principles and methods of inquiry in that field or in l'elated fields. Obviously, the implementation of these esse_ntially elec- tive courses rests w1th the vartous depart- ments of the college. The Supreme Court has indicated tha~ ~n individual can now resist the draft for other than rehgwus reason~. -Probably, the best justification for de~l.ining to fight lS that the fighting is needless and hypocntiCal. Such a :non- religious stand on the part of thoughtful students woul? surely be deemed \un-American\ b_y m8:_ny p3;rents, but It is a valid expression of our deepemng disillusionment. These considerations led the Council to conclude that the faculty should study fur- ther the precise nature, objective and con- tent C>f the courses created for the program of geneml education outlined in Compre- hensive Education. No curricular change can proceed with- out acceptance of the need for extensive faculty di'scussion of the content of the courses used to meet the College's goal o:f a liberal education. Nor can the faculty construct a sequence of courses in general Vice Control Spring Weekend's casualty list, according to the in- firmary, was the longest in many a yea~. When people who are supposed to ~e. fairly far along 1~ t~e maturmg process erupt into actiVIty more characteristic of ora~g­ outangs and end up afflicted with broken bones and aching heads it can only be assumed that somewhere along the line something has gone awry. In this case the social rules of our institution, not the students, ar~ to blame for the weekend's disgraceful behavior. All through the dreary winter the rules whic_h are designed to ban unrestrained decadence from t!us campus were clamped firmly in place. But when Sprmg Weekend broke, the rules collapsed and unrestrained de- cadence bloomed with the tulips in Jackson's Gardens and elsewhere. Any psychologist will agr-ee that when the drives are blocked too long they become increasingly intense. Thus, a relaxation of dormitory restrictions and other precau- tions against fearful vice, sin and corruption would, in the long run, reduce the number of ~ppalling atavisms that occur on weekends when the soctal rules can no longer stem the tide. education without a spirit of compromise . That is why, when the Council realized that the faculty had not yet reached a clear con- census as to the S1Jecific C()ntent of Compre- hen·sive Education, it sought a modus vivendi through which this discussion may continue in a frank and open manner. Yet, I think it i-s proper to add, the Faculty Council could not endorse a position which would have ignored the strong sentiment for construc- tive experimentation in the curricular pat- terns of Union College. It has aehieved what it hopes to be reasonable compromise which acknowledge's the need to explore further the content of general educathm at the Col- lege, the professional interests of the fac- ulty, and the resources available. Breadth and Quality I can assure the faculty and students that the College will undertake this study in a manner that recognizes the need for breadth and quality in a pr{)gram of Com- prehensive Education, that leaves open for debate the mean's chosen to achieve the ends of a liberal education, and that accounts for the needs of both faculty and -students. In this sense, we have just begun the task of designing a program of general educa- tion that will prevent preclusive and pre- Raps ~ysticism Of Comp. Ed. By Prof. Frank Gado 1 think I am against Comprehensive Education. If my statement seems unchar- acteristically lacking in assertiv~ness, this is due,. not to a banking of my phlogistic temperament, but to the mystic nature of that title. Exactly what those two words mean is as elusive as a pea in a carnival shell game. So far as I have been able to determine, the title may be read either as a convenient shorthand for the educational philosophy and policy implicit in the Curricular Affairs Committee Report, or as the mere title in search of a definition which the Faeulty Coun- cil passed last Monday. The two versions have only a title, the magic nu!Uber of eight re- quired courses, and the th!'ee term calendar in conunon; otherwise, they are furlongs apart. I find it significant that the Council chose not to endorse the machinery of the Report. While it may be going too far to state baldly that this action indicates a tacit re- pudiation of the Report, there should be no such hesikancy in describing it as a call for a full open discussion of the educational design which Union hopes to accomplish by means of the eight blank slots now consti- tuting Comprehensive Education. Opposition to Preceptors The \preceptor\ concept, in view of the great wail of opposition it has raised, should by now be evther dead or fading. As some, though certainly not all, of the nu- merous obJections are listed elsewhere in this issue of the paper, I shall try to avoid redundancy and, after yielding to the tem- tation of one parting sally, pass on to other matters. It is both baffling and disturbing that a faculty of a (listinguished college could so long advocate. or tolerate the .adop- tion of a device which makes diffuseness a creed and elevates professional ignorance as a virtue. The preceptor approach, if in- stalled,. would cripple the morale of both faculty and students. The \gut\ course re- sulting from such intellectual dishonesty would be a flimflam of monstrous propor- tions. At .the same time, I am less than ecsta- tic over the Council position. It endorses a ciper and means that we have agreed to disagree a while longer. The network of e1gnt empty boxes vrhich is provides is a bed of Procrustes. Whatever our investiga- tiOns and battles decide next year is a sound core for a Union education which can justifiably be required of all our students w1U have to be fitted to the eighth course pattern; this is akain to building the house before the foundation. It would have been preferable to decide the nature {)f this sound foundation first and then to devise the slots to accommodate it. Nevertheless, tne Council action offers hope. A still green apple is better than a wormy one. Weird Smorgasbord My major bias against the work of the Committee should be apparent. It had a mandate to re-examine our curriculum in the light of the changing intellectual de- mands of post war life and the new context of American higher education. Also, in- herent in this 1·e-examination was the need to define Union's role as a college. Unfortu- nately, it did neither. Under its recom- mendaions, not one !Uore student would be forced to recognize tnat the universe our astronauts have taken first steps into is not built on a Euclidean model, and a good many less would acquire even the most cur- sory introduction to the Greek and Hebraic roots of the \values\ which the proposers of Comprehensive Education so earnestly desire the students to \judge sagely.\ What is the rationale behind a requirement of courses taken in common by the whole stu- Lent body ? Is it that the full session (which I always thought was a function of the dormitory) has so failed to mate'l'ialize that it must be formally incorporated into the curriculum'? How else can the sample read- ing lists of the Report ,be interpreted? For, after expressing the hope that Comprehen• s. Vtl Education intends \to suggest that coherence of knowledge ..• which will mo- tivate a student to continue to learn throughout his life,\ the kind of thinking expressed in the sample reading lists re- veals an equation ()f \breadth of knowl- edge\ with a weird Slll{)rgasbord. If Com- prehensive Education is meant to incuclate attitudes towards learning, it must rec- ognize that attitudes do not grow in vacuo. Without a meaningful context, the reading of any single book runs considerable risk of going the way of Great Books discus- sions by home economics majors. To me, a core of college-wide required courses im- plies conveyance of a body of material deemed essential in order for a liber-ally educated ma,n to enter into a meaningful discourse with his fellows. A knowledge of Oedipus Rex or Einsteinian physics is not \specialized\; it involves knowing a cultural \language\ with which men think. To my old fashioned way of thinking, \com- prehensive education\ begins with basic mature specialization during the under- gl'aduate years yet wi.ll encourage a wide range of departmental and interdepartment- al majors. In this regard, the other decision of the Faculty Council - to limit the major - is consistent with the present trend in higher education am<Jng liberal arts colleges. 0 • Real Problems To the Editor: Several days ago I listened to three fac- ulty membet's d~scuss their ideas of ?ompre- 'hensive educatwn. The conversatiOn re- volved about the notion of values, and how they could he imparted to Unien students. These men held that most students began their college years in a apathetic state. They had no problems, no dilemnas and t~ere­ for:e no desire for any answers or solutiOns. Thus, did these students proceed through four years of formal and technical tra~n­ ing into an incomprehensible world - m- comprehensible because they had not ac- quired any values. And what did these learned men recom- men•d? Hrst, they suggested a program of a wakening and infusing problems during the student's first college years. Then they sug- gested answeri-ng these problems through a formal and planned eurriculum of value in- culcation; courses that infiueneed the \whole\ person, and courses that demonstrated the inter-relationship's of course, student and society. Naive This is a1·tificial and naive. First, lThOst freshmen have a plethora of their own prob- lems, whether they know it or not. There is little need for infusing additional problems, for \shaking them up.\ In subsequent years the fr.eshman infuses enoug-h additional pr0blems. But making students -aware is ~ndeed a noble and necessary aim of an educational institution. Can a formal type of course influence the \whole\ person or grant him this magical perspedive? I doubt it. This can only be achieved by osmosis - from the teacher~s personality to the student's personality. It is an in- tangible and cannot be written into the course syllabus. A good college education results from good professors working with good students. No artificial program, rules syllabus or type oJ education can substitute. Union can se- cure, and hold better teachers by having better incentives, higher pay, course free- dom, etc. It ean have better students by improving the departments of public rela- tion's and admissions. To focus on a program C>f comprehen- sive education is to ignore the real prob- lems: admissions, public relations, and fac- ulty recruiting. Sincerely, Frank Penna, Jr., '65. Unlearned Lesson! To the Editor: When I heard the Serendipity Singers perform in the Memorial Fieldhouse, I rea- lized that the loudspeaker system was com- pletely inadequate. The speakers cracked continuously, probably because the output capacity of these speakers was too low. At that time, 1 was sure that we learned a lesson. Yet, last Saturday the same thing hap- pened. The music of Dave Brubeck was ruined by the poor amplification system. I was surprised that B1·ubeck played under these conditions, and I understand fully, why he refused to play an encore; it i's a crime to ruin good music this way. I am sure that there ru·e people here at Union who appreciate good music. Let's try to avoid a similar disgrace in spring '66. If Union is not capable of erecting a decent speaker system for ma:ss entertainment it is useless to bring good entertainers to the campus. Sincerely yours, Wolfgang C. Mayer, '67. courses in the humanities and philosophy and history of science and aims towards reasonable mastery of a discipline. Unprepared Graduates . My second major point of contention With the Committee rests with its ignoring the demands which the developing pattern of education in highly selective liberal arts colleges is imposing. An ever decreasing number of students in these schools look upon their college education as terminal as the possibility, if not necessity, of grad- uate educatiOn grows. Yet the Committee seems more alarmed by the spectre of \pro- fessionalism\ than by the prospect of our graduates going on to further study unpre- pared. My judgment here may seem un- duly harsh or exaggerated, but the fact remains that pressures on the staffs of a number of departments pl'Ohibit offering genuine seminars, even to its senior majors. The Reports emphasis on small preceptorial sections for Comprehensive Educaion, while fine in itself, must, given a relatively fixed number of faculty, throw an even more bur- denso!Ue number of students into already crowded departmental courses. The limited format of this column pre- vents a full discussion of :all the issues in- volved, or even of the ones raised here. If I have seemed overly vitriolic, it is only because, at this point, it is more important to designate differences than concurrences. The debate which faces us in the next year is of extreme importance; it will affect the shape of Union's future. let us all hope that, under sound new leadership, we will building on our strengths and not attenuate them. To conclude: the Faculty Council has committed itself to, and asked the raculty to assist in, the construction of a coherent series of courses in general education through which students may develop the the capacity to understand, to appreciate, and to judge critically the cultural reality within which they live - through which they may gain a devotion to rational an- alysis by contact with many areas of schol- arly investigati<Jn and fecund discussion. I join the Council in hoping that we may ar- rive at the most effective set of course·s to achieve this goal. There is a risk in any fundamental re-examination of the curric- ulum; there is an equal risk in closing the door to change. The Faculty Council has opened the door for the faculty to proceed with the kind of curricular revision it will decide is best.

4 Saturday, May 8, 1965 Saturday, M (Continue' United State long into Ch are competin1 aid J:l;orth V 11 uWhat Now If The Sky Were To Fa![;,?· 2:00 - 4:00 P.M. MONDAY, MAY 31 India a1:e ot SECO~D SEMESTER - 1964-65 Examination will he held in the FIELD HOUSE unless other- ll'ise rlirectecl. Final Examination in French 22 (French Conversation) German 22 (German Conversation) will be given during the last' week of das!:les. Final E:xuminatioR in Psychology 12b (Statistical Methods) and E. lOb (Graphics) will be given during the last class period. Conflicts in Examinations should be reported to Mrs. De Groff in the Gffire of the Registrar before Friday, May 14, 1965. SATURDAY, :VIA Y 22 Hoadley House ~l:OO - 11 :00 A.M. Air ScieHre lb (First Year Basic) Academic and Leadership Lab. Air Science 2b (Second Year Basic) Leadership Lab. 2:00 • 4:00 P.M. Air Science 3h (First Year Advanced) Academic :\10~DA Y, MAY 24 9:00 - 11 :00 A.M. Music lOb (Elements of Music Theory and Composition in Memorial Chapel S.S. 35 (Social and Political Philosophy) Sociology 21b (Introductory Sociology) Sociology 37 (The Urban Community) E.E. 22 (Alternating-Current Circuits) E.E. 23b (Electrical Engineering) E.E. 31 (Advanced Circuits) E.E. 48 (Computer Circuits and Components) 2:00 - 4:00 P.M. Latin llb (Reading of Selected Prose) English 23b (The 18th Century) Russian lOb (Second Year) Economics 40 (Economics of Transportation) History 20b (History of the U.S.) History 39b (The L'.S. in the 20th Century) Chemistry 12b (Organic) in C.L. 201 Mathematics 16b (Algebra) E.E. 25b (Electeiral Engineering) TUESDAY, MA. Y 25 9:00 • 11 :00 A.M. English 24b (The Romantic Period) Economics 38 (Quantitath·e Methods in Economics) History lOb (Topics in the History of Western Institutions and Ideas )-(Sees. 1, 3, 5 to EE 22) (Sees. 6, 9, 10, 12 to CL 201) Political Science 44 (Latin American Governments) Biology 17 (Biological Concepts and Theories) Chemistry 32 (Radiochemistry) Physics 34 (Elertromagnetic Waves) C. E. 30 (Structures) 2:00 - 4:00 P.M. Economics 34 (Comparative Religion) Religion 25b (Comparative Religion) Physics 4 b (Classical and Modern Physics) Sees. ~. 6, 8 to CL 201) (Sees. 7, 9, to P.L. 202) Physics llb (Atomic anc1 Nuclear Physics) \VEDNESD.\ Y, :\lAY 26 9:00 - 11:00 A.M. English lb (Freshman English) (Sees. 2, 3, 4, 7 to CL 201) (Sees. 8, 9, 13, 15 to EE 22) (Recs. 1, 16, 17 to P.L. 202) English llb (Shakespeare) History 35b (The History of Latin America) Chemistry :n (Advanced Inorganic) Psychology 24b (Management and Leadership) l\I.E. 21 (Materials and Processes)-in G.E. 303 RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE IT AllAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl . \ 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES STORAGE AVAILABLE WINTER GARMENTS STORED FOR FULL SEASON ONLY $2.95 + Reg Cleaning Price Fully Insured Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank French 25 (Readings in Contemporary French Literature) U. S. policy French 30b (French Civilization of the 19th and 20th Cen- 9:00 • 11;00 A.M. pays lip-serv~ tury) English 12b (American Literature) icy. Sukarno German 30b (German Classicism and Romanticism) French lb (Elementary) that \thousa Music 23b (Music Literature) German lb (Elementary) would go to 1 Eco,n;:>mics ~2 (Labor Economic.s and Industrial Relations) Spanish lb (Elementary) VieMtnoi~snel. feel Political Science 21 (Introduuction to Government) Russian lh (Elementary) Political Science 22 (American Government) E.E. 42 (Electronic Control and Servomechanisms) beneficia:! to Sociology 36 (Comparative Social Systems) M.E. 47 (Automatic Control of Mechanical Systems)-in Furthermore Geology 26b (Regional Geology of the US.)-in GL 25 GE 301 ists where I Mathematics 22 (Numerical Analysis) 2:00 • 4:00 P.M. and produce·s E.E. 41 (Energy Conversion in Alternating-Current Sys- Chemistry 21b {Physical) ciety which terns) Geology llb (Mineralogy and Crystallography)-in GL 25 •· ·easily exploit Mathematics 18 (Topology) de feat the V THURSDAY, MAY 27 Psychology la (Introductory Psychology) tor. \It is go Psychology lb (Introductory Psychology) result than 9:00 • 11:00 A.M. p h 1 llb (P h 1 f p 1. ) Russia, as w English 25b (The Victorian Period) · syc 0 ogy '. syc 0 ogy 0 · ersona Ity the wa·r.\ P<?litical Science ?9 (International Relations) C.E. 40 b (Structural Theory) United H~story 38b (Socmi and Intellectual History of the U.S.) TUESDAY, JUNE 1 The senior Biology 1-2b (Botany) gon stated th PsychQlogy 27 (Theory and Practice of Mental Testing) 9:00 • 11:00 A.M. is guilty \of E. 21a (Analytical Mechanics) Chinese lOb (.Second Year) gle law of m E. 2lb (Analytical Mechanics) Humanities lb (Study of Major Works of Literature, A:~:chi- often pi•ofe·ss M.E. 45 (Stress Analysis)-in GE 301 tecture and Art)-in Old Chapel of law thJ 2:00 - 4:00 P.M. History 33b (Modern and Contemporary Europe) agreement in Ph~losophy 20b (ln~roduction to Philosophy) Mathematics 3b {Fundamental Mathematics) the peace o Philosophy 30b (History of Ideas in Western Civilization) Mathematics 14 (Calculus II) United State: Political Science 48 (Legislative Process and Decision Mak- Mathematics 15 (Ordinary Differential Equations)-(Secs. duty of bri ing) 2, 3, to EE 22) question ·bef Geology 14b (Paleontology)-in GL 24 Mathematics 33 (Real Variables) raids on N• Mathematics 21 (Partial Differential Equations) 2:00 - 4:00 P.M. been iHegal u Physics 25b (Principles of Electronics) I.D. 40b (The Foundations of Mathematics) and have on! Physics 32 (Thermodynamics and Kinetic Theory) English lOb (Introduction to English Literature) the major co1 C.E. 32 (Route Design) Political Science 32 (Public Administration) 1 In no w~ M.E. 33 (Reactor Engineering) Sociology 43 (Social •Stratification) North Vietna Psychology 28b (Experimental Psychology) guilty of ille FRIDAY, MAY 28 M.E. 41 (Mechanism Dynamics)-in GE 303 ternational l: violation's .by 2:00 - 4:00 P.M. WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2 cuse violatior English 506 (American Civilization) Pe: Economics 25 (Principles of Accounting) 2:00 • 4:00 P.M. Morse askl Ec;onomics 36 (Corporate Accounting) French lOb (Second Year) pating natio History 21b (Introduction to English History) French 20b (Introduction to French Literature) v a live up to thE Mathemat~cs 4a (Calculus I -lstsem.) German lOb (Second Year) national law Mathematics 4b (Calculus I-2nd sem.)-Secs. 2, 8, to PL German 20b (Introduction to German Literature) ternational p 202) (Sees. 4, 6 to EE 22) Spanish lOb (Second Year) only alte1·nat Physics 22 (Physical Optics) Humanities 14b (History of Rome) Morse cone Psychology 26b (Developmental) 1 Physics 26 (Introduction to Electromagnetic Waves) quoting Pre! 9 00 11 00 AM 1 9:00 • 11:00 A.M. monition-' : - : . • gether.\ Art 23b (History of Art-Modern Art 1600 to Present)- Latin 2lb (Survey of Roman Literature) Domh in Old Chapel Greek lb (Elements of Greek) In a presE Political Science 38 (Soviet Foreign Policy) English 18b (The Novel) IJ ing the conv Religion 23b (Religions of the U.S.) Logic 20b (Logic and Scientific Method) expressed hi: Biology lb (General) Economics 42 (Economic Fluctuations, Forecasting and Gov- tion in the Biology 6b (Human Biology) ernment Policy) He said tha Biology llb (Zoology and Comparative Anatomy) Philosophy 36 (Hellenistic, Medieval, and Renaissance Phil-~ acted cOJ·reci Biology 21b (Embryology) osophy) and armed f< Mathematics 24 (Probability) Religion 3lb (An Introduction to the Bible-Apocrypha and of evacuatin M.E. 40 (Heat Transfer)-in GE 301 and GE 303 the New Testament) als. Howeve Biology 22b (Cellular Physiology) United State SATURDAY, MAY 29 E. 41 (Engineering Law) giving stron~ 9 :OO _ 11 :OO A.M. M.E. 20 (Elementary Kinematics and Machine Design- en eonstituti in GE 301 th D · · Art 21 (History of American Art-in Old Chapel e omm!Ca H' t b M.E. 43 (Fluid Mechanics) ed \When th• IS ~~Y E4:J, 2 ~Asia Since the Coming of Western Influence- r;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;....;a;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~-f------:;F;:;;-O~R:;;:------ ~' l:nited State Political Science 46 (International Politics)-in EE 22 ALVORD'S on to suppor Chemistry lb (General) Senio1·s n Chemistry 14b (Quantitative <::hemistry) SHELL STATION M th ' D fi tion Geology lb (General)-in PL 202 0 er S ay nvl'tati'ons f C.E. 43 (Sanitary Engineering)-in EE 22 the Student 2:00 _ 4:00P.M. 187 Nott Terrace MAY 12 Old Gym Ha Greek llb (Intermediate Greek) •l Economics 21 (Elementary: The Price System; The National BRAKES - TUNE UP Economy) Economics 22 (Elementary: Markets, Income Distribution, MUFFLERS World Economy) Economic's 44 (International Trade and Finance) WHEEL BALANCE History 31b (Medieval Europe) Mathematics 32 (Analysis) Dl 6-9847 E.E. 23 (Engineering Electronics) E.E. 44 (Industrial E;ectronics) STUDENT TRAVEL It is too late now to book for Europe. But don't miss next Christmas Vacation. CONSULT US FOR ALL YOUR TRAVEL NEEDS. Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 A~ents For All Leading Airlmes - Steam Ship - Rail- roads and Car Rental Cos. ............... , ........... . Coin· op Cleaning $2.00 For 8 Lb. Leave it - We Do It D&S at SHERIDAN PLAZA up Rbsa Rd. from Ellis Daily-8:30 A.M. - 9 P.M. Sat. til 6:00 Dl 6-9866 HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL - CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR e SEA • RAIL • CHARTER BUS Reale'~ LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE The GALLEY 1735 VanVranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOWN 1Sc HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15c (with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS ----------------------20c French Fries ___ • ___________ • _ _ _ _ 12c Thick Shakes ______ ~ _____ ~ ______ 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Outl ~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,~ ,d~ the finest &1ft you can &lVI ~ MDY TW\~1-0·FLEf WATCH BRACELET (as featured on \The Jack Paar Show\ NBC·TV Network Friday night) DIAMOND LIL Gold Filled <tg.95 FTI FIESTA Gold Filled $J.95 AI * Many Others For Your Personal Selection DAVE'S ·I)> c ~ote: The s A's 'Senio and mo1'e dh illusioned by · \'0 torial compr has been pre to make edu community, · aim of the p curl~ doe-s not at a I. The r tion of teach' We have eor perts in the people outsi< !agist is a s J('(!XpleCtE~d to } II. The re the adventw lated fields < tion i's trul~ \m•ature in 1 ing that edu the vie·w tha worki out that a r he embarks edge. III. The t•J faculty v• participate i thing, aru un 1esponsible sirable. IV. The faculty into but there \li will welcom noted schoh l'etool the j cGmpetence. Precept our concept feel it wou: program. I1 hesitated to ~quir~ ~qnp L. Horov S. Morse A. Je:ffrE R. Warn 0. Rosel J. Upton L. Dittle ~

4 Saturday, May 8, 19·65 ' : Saturday, Me uWhat Now If The Sky Were To Fa!f~?, ( COI·l ti nue< l'nit<\d Stat<· : .. ng into <'hi .11·•· t'lliHJll'tin\ ,j.d :\orth y,, l11dia a1 l' ~>U !!IIi 1-li.-, 1·. '\.,dL i !.~t' 11·' il'ioi tl t'J,· Fl ELI> HOl'SE unit·~-; other- '~· I\ _ l't• ~' t I\' I , FilL.' 1·-\.:~ru r1:1~ :•-!! .! Flt·''ll'il ~~ ( 1-'rt-'lll'~t ( ·tlll\'t•r:.:.atlutJI, GPrrnan ~:! (!tt'll!l:tli <. \'''''t: .. nl \\!;! J,,. gil<'ll dtttillg tlw la,;t \I'Pl'k ,.,f · bt,;:--c·~. l::,·d 1., .t<. \<' i\\ 1'. [',,,·],.,j.,.,;y I:!h ( ~tati~tkal :\ll'lhudsl :L' 1<. ]11·. ~,,,,_,,l: ~··1 \\11 i\~· ·~ \'t''l .l\il-it:J! tf-lt> :a:--t l'la::-:.:-; Jll'l'iod. < •• •,•1.-t~ 11 l>.; '' 1 i•;l:i•·ll~ ~;,,.,1·.1 '><· ll'I\'rtvd to :\lr,;. lll' Cirotr\ , .. ,.r • · · , .. I:.,._, · · ''' :,.J .. :. Fr:tl:t:\. \lay It. l~lti~ •. ~\Tl'Hll\Y,\·1\) ·>·> lluadlt•;. Jlou,.,l' 'I : 1111 II :1111 \.\I. \ : 1 ,...: 1-: I f ~ I ' L.•. ,. ~~II 11 t' 'I . •I y, ·\ I:.,,- .. l l.··:t.ll'I,;hip 1.:11>. :.! :no - I :ll11 I' .. 'l. \ .1· ~l· t•J\•'t•' • 'I \W'\ll.\. Y, ;\lAY 21 !1;1111. 11:1111 \.''!. :'.Ju,;',· ]Ill• :l·::,\·lt.t·<.t~ \-ll'llH>rial l 'ha pel ,.;,~. :;:, I,;, :.1 ;,!''' l'\il.tl:·:~] !']dt•;.;\phy) . ...:l,,.;,.}l'}.!Y :..:1:, !{II'! ,,du,·tpty ~~~·.·in t•J-!YI ~~·(·l,,:~~t:y :.7 ITtH· l'ri•;tl. ( '(•JlliHUttity) 1:.1·:. :_:~ 1 .\l'.t 11 at ·,:._:.t 't:t rt•! • ( 'in·uit .... , l·:.J<:. :..::.>, 1 i':l··t'lri.·:d I·>:g.ra·t·l;l,g I J:.J·:. ::1 (.\tl\'~tl;t·,··i {.! t'll!: ..... t J-:.1-:. 1\' ((·P.J11•lt't·' {. l'oll', a•ld <'otllfh•l1t~!Jt~) ~:till - 1 :II() \-'\!. ' I.:1t:n II'• t I:.t·:t•:. !IC: ,.f .;,.I,·,·tc·d l'rn,;<• \ l·:ngl':-:il ~:~:, l T:_t' l-\'t:: (\·ntttl'\\ 1 I~· l·· <; tt ~ • '·. 1 :--: t·•· ·: d Y 1 : u· 1 • t-:~·nl t~:I-:• ... to ! 1-:t·t·'l ••ni.·:--; ,,f Trar.;-;.p•IJ ';t~ in111 i\:,;(,•!'. :_:p:. d! ,;: .. :\· .. : ti:.~· l'.:'.l !!!<· 1.\ :.~1'· tTl:<·!··.~. Ill till' ~lith <'<'ill\l!\'l I . h l' Ill;~: J'', 1 :_:.' II li !.!: ; II I i !') i 11 ('. L. 20] . :\L,~l:t•nt;t: ·,-..: \f::~ t.\~~l';''a) I:.I·:. :..::.·, ( l.:,.,·tr ·;,[ Fn~!ill<·••riiiJ.: 1 IT E~ll.\ Y. \1.\ Y :!i •1 :1\11 - 11 :1111 .\.VI. l·q~l':<il :..: I'• tT:•t• J: .. :<l:tlll;,. l\·r od) ~~\·,,n.~n\:('~ :~....: t(~u:tnt'~· ~:\-{' ~I('t 1 1od;o; in I·:conunlicsJ 11:-: .. ry l!•i• (J· .. ,,i .. ~ ;,, the· 11:--t.>l·y nf \\'p,;ll'm Institutions '\\i !tit·;,,;\- (:-;n•-... 1. :1. ~. to EE 22) (Sees. 6, 9, 10, 12 to l'L 21:1) I'.,:lti.·al :-:,.;,.,,,.,. 11 tl.:~t.:: :\nwri,·an tiol'l'lllllll.'lll>'\ Btol\g·y 1-: t ll:olo;.:Tal I'olll't·p: s and Tht•nrit•sl ( -h,·n·: <! ~- ·:~ \ !~ad~, .,-fH-nt ... ~ t·y l 1'::~·=-- I:\ ::'I tF:t-·i':lt•J' .-t~!;t· 1 ·1. ,,\':~Yt\- .. ) t'.i-:. :,u l:''!'llt~•-i!'(• .... l 2:1\1)- 1:110 !'.\l. i-·,., ''·••lull ..... :. 1 I ( • •l:1 Jl.t !' .. t t \ t' l~ei :glt 1 1,} l~t·id . .:-.·~~t ~--~, 1(-\:t.p:_~!a'i\t' I~t:lil!\i~~II) Pn~· ... _, .. -1~. ~~ ::t------~t 1 ~-1· d \It~-1\·r·r: l'i;~.:.it·_,.,J t'L :.!Ill) t:-'l't·~. 7, !1, to l'.L. 21J2) J': y::;:t':-> 11:1 ~ .\tclJ1:;4' ;t 1 'i ,11,.;,•;.tr ll\1y.;it·~ l \' Ell\E:-;IJ\Y . .\1 \Y 21i '1:110. ll:tlll .\.,!. I ·•::! ,:, 1 h l hv.• .. \1\n Ellgl i~ltl I -.;(•{'-.. 2. :1, t. 7 !fl CL 2111) 1 :-'t•t•..,, ~. !1, J:l. J~, to EE 22) r:--' .. t·-.1. lti. 17 t.o I'.L 211~1 !<~~~: ..... ,, 11 :I t ~i::tke~l't';tl't') II ,· .. 1\ ::.- •• , tT 1 .•· II ,•.,1·\· .,f L,t:n ,.\mvri,·al :.t· 1 r:i.,t ,,. ::1 r .\,i\ .tl1t'l'ti lt:tti'C:ltlit·l i'-:-···\\···~;. ~\!• t :\lal,agt·'ltl'lli ·and I. .. adt·r:-;hip) '1.1-:. :.'1 I ~l:tt,.!·i;,l- ;n.d J•, ...... ~,<·~l- in (;.E. 30:1 ,,, li, H to RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featunng HOME STYLE lTAtiAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Lorge Parties Try Our lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week 135 ERIE BOUlEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES STORAGE AVAILABLE WINTER GARMENTS STORED FOR FULL SEASON ONL V $2.95 Reg Cleaning Price Fully Insured Dambrose Cleaners 1 517 VAN VRANI<EN AVENUE - FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Dank 2:00 · I:UIJ P.:H. :\10:--iiUY, MAY 31 , .. s. p .. Jil'y imy:-; I ip-,wni ll'y. Sukanlil that \thou~a ,\·ouhl go to t \. il'l llUill. F retll'll ~;, ( Rt•adings in l' ontemporary French LitL•ra ture J ' Fn.'lll'h :JOb l French Ch·ilization of the lHth and 20th Cen- I tury) l;c:t'l!Htll :wh (German Clas:oicism and Rumantil'isml :\l u;;ll' 2:~h (l\lusic Literature) L-:,·,nomics :12 (Labor Eeonomics and Industl'ial Relations)· l'uli tiea.J SeietH'P 21 ( lntroduuction to Gon•rntlll'nt) l'uli l ical ~cit• lll'L' 22 ( AnH.'ril·an Government) ~ul'iol\g·y :.lti (ComparatiYe Social Systems) l; .... l.,).Q' ~l;iJ l[{eg-ional Geology of the CS.)-in GL 2:i :\lallll'matics ~2 ( ~umerit·Hl Analysis) E.J.:. -!1 (Eill't'gy l'onvPrsion in AltPt·nating-l'urrent Sys-! tem:-;) 9 :llO - l I :00 ,\.:\l. Englitih 2ab (Thl• \'ictorian Period) l'ulttical Science 2!l (International Helations) History :l!:ib (Social and Intellectual Histor~· of the C.S.J Biolng·J· 1'21! (Botany) l'sycnulogy ~~ (Theory ami Prul'liee of :.\!ental Testing) L :!Ia (Analytical }!e~hanics) r~. 2lb (AnalJ·tit·al :.\lechanics) :\I.E. 45 (Str~ss AnalysisJ-in GE 301 2:00 - t :00 1'.:\l. Philosophy :.:ub (Introduction to Philosophy) l 'lnlusophy :wb (History of Ideas in Western Civilization) p,Jitical Science ·ltl (Legislative Process and Derision Mak- ing) t;eiJlogy 1-lb (Paleontulogy)-in GL 24 :\Ia themnties 21 ll'art ial Differential Equations) l 'hysks 2iib ( l'rinciples uf Electronics) l'hysics 02 (Thermodynamics and Kinetic Theorv) c'.J..:. ;{~ (Houte Design) . :\I.E. :l0 ( }{em:tor Eng-irwering) FRID.\ Y, ~lAY 28 2:00 - -t:OO P.:H. English alJti (American Civilization) E:ronomics :.:::; (Principles of Accounting) E:~unumit·s Jli (Corporate Aecounting) HI story :.: 1lJ (I ntroduc.:tion to English History) :\lathemutil:s 4a (Caleulu~ I -lstsem.) :\la them a tics clb (Calculus l-2nd sem.)-Sees. 2, s, to PL, 202) (Sees .. 1, 6 to EE 22) I 'hysics 22 ( l'h~·siral Optics) l 'sychology 2tib (Developmental) \l :00 - 11 :00 A.:H. .~rt 2~b (History of Art-:\louern Art 1600 to Present)-·· in Old Chapel I'ol~ti~al :Science 3_8. (Soviet Foreign Policy) HdtglDn 2:3b (Re!Igwns of the U.S.) Biology lb (General) Biology lib {II uman Biology J Biology llb (Zoology aml Comparative Anatomy) Biology 21b (Embryology) :\!athematic,; 2-1 (Probability) :\LE. 10 (Heat Transt'er)-in GE 301 and GE 303 SA'ITIW.\ Y, :VlAY 29 !l :UtJ - 11 :00 A.:'.l. .-'l.t·t 21 (History of Amet·ican Art-in Old Chapel His tory 4·1h (Asia Since the Coming of Western Influence- in EE 22 l'ulitiml ::3ciL•nee -Hi (International l'olitirs)-in EE 22 l'hemistr~· 1 b (General) Chemistry llb l ~uantitative Chemistry) <i~.>olug-y lb (General)-in l'L 202 l'.E .. J:l (Sanitary Engineering)-in EE 22 2:00 • 4 :00 p .:\1. <!reek Ill) (Intermediate Greek) l:.<·onomtcs 21 (Elementary: The Priee System; The Xational Economy) Eeonomi~s 22 (Elementar~·: Markets, lnrome Distl'ihution, World Economy) Et•onomic,; 44 (International TradP ancl Finanr•·) History :~tb (Medieval Europe) }!atiH'matics :32 (Analysis) E.E. :1:1 (Engineering Electt·onirs) E.E. 14 ( Indu:-;trial 'E::eclronies) tfifft'f ffff'TttT'T'ffTTTf ~~ :00 - 11:00 A.IH. English 12b (American Litemtun· J French 1 b (J<:Iementary) German 1 b (Elementary) Spanish lb (Elementary) Russian lb (Elementary) l·:.t:. 42 (E:ll•etrouic Control awl :Set vomerhanisms) :\1.1<.:. ·17 ( Automati<\ Control of MPC\hauical Systems)-il: GE 301 2:00 - 1 :Oil P.M. Chemistry 21b (Physical) c;eology 11 b (1\lineralogy aml Crystallography l-in GL 2;, !\lathematics 18 (Topology) l',;yehology 1 a ( Intt·oductory l':-;ycholog·y) l'syc hology 1 b (Introductory l'sychology) l'sychology 1lb (Psyd10logy of !'er,;on~~litv) C.E. 40b (Structural Theory) · fl'ESDAY, JU,\'E 1 H :00 - 11:00 A.!\l. Chinese lOb (Second Year) Humanities lb (Study of l\lajor Works of Literature, Archi- tectme a11<l Al't)-in Old Chapel History :3:3b (Modern and Contemporary Europe) Mathematics :3b (Fundamental Mathematics) Mathematics 1·1 (Calculus II) :1-lathemali<:~ 15 (Ordinary Differential Equations)-(Secs. 2, 3, to EE 22) Mathematics :53 (.Real Variables) 2 :00 - 4 :00 P.M. I. D. ·!Ob (The Foundations of Mathematics) English lOb (Introduction to English Literature) Political Science 32 (l'ublic Administration) Sue iology 4:5 (Social Stratification) Psychology 28b (Experimental Psychology) :\I.E. ·11 (.L\le~hanism Dynamics)-in GE 303 \VED:\ESDAY, JUNE 2 J{Ol'Sl' ft•t•J: 1 !•••ul'fi('ial t11 '' I·'urtlwrllltJl'P .. 1:-\b \\'hl\l'l' I ;Lllll (JI'I'ldlll'L'>' ,. iet \' \l'hkh '··a\C!y I'Xploit. •lt> t't·a t tht• \' 1\1.'. '\ll is g\D r•·:<ult than 1 I , . Hus:-<ia, a,; \\'( 'I lJ,. war.\ ' !'nilt'd Tht• S<'llio I' t-::<~11 ,;tated th j • i\ guilty \of : , e:l1• Ia w o.f mi ,ften profe:-;,;. 11f law tht , agl'eenwnt in • t.lw pea<·e o· l'nitl'd State; duty of Ill'il qtll':ition bdt '·~raids on ~< beet! ilh.ral u and han• unl tilt' major cot 1 in llll 1\'U ~urth \'iPtna g-uilty of illl• l tPrnational h. • ,. iolat ion,; bv ')t: <'tl\\ 1'i11la ti1;n Pe~ 2:00 - 4:00 P.l\1. :\Ior,;L' a,;k~ French lOb (Second Year) pa·ting natiot French 2Db (Introduction to French Litemture) ~ liw up to the German lOb (Second Year) national law German 20b (Introduction to German Literature) tPrnatiunal p~ Spanish lOb (.Second Year) .. nlv alternat Humanities 14b (History of Rome) \ :.'Iot·se eonc Physics 26 (Introduction to Electromagnetic Waves) ':\quilting l're,; H :00 .. 11 :00 A.M. nlollition - ~' Latin 21b (Sur1·ey of Roman LiteraturP) ~·pthrr.\ (;reek 1 h (Elements of Greek) Domin I . l t in a Jn·ess ·\nglish l8b (The Novel) Logi~ 20h (Logic and Scientific ;\IethodJ ing· the CllllV Economics .J.2 (Economic Fluctuations, Foncastincr and Go\'- L'Xpresst-d hi~ ,.., lion in tlw ernment Policy) l!t• said tha1 l'hilo:-;ophy :3li (Hellenistic, :1-Iedieval, and nenaissance Phil-··' 1-:ll'te<l l'Ol'l'Cct osophy) aml armed fc Heligion :3lb (An Introduction to the Bible-Apocrypha and ,f •·1·aeuatin the New Testament) ak Howevei Biology 22b (Cellular Physiology) , l'nited ::-Jtate E. 41 (Engineering Law) ~i1·ing- strong :M.E. 20 (EIE\mentarv Kinf.'mati\\ :md :\laehitH' Design I'll mn;;tituti in GE 301 . •lw Dominiea :\I.E. 4a (Fluid Mechanics) ··d \When tht ' ' l'nitl•d Stat••: ·•11 to ~uppor1 ALVORD'S SHELL STATION 187 Nott Terrace BRAKES TUNE UP MUFFLERS WHEEL BALANCE Dl 6-9847 FOR Mother's Day MAY 12 :\<'n iors l11 , c: taduation .nl'itati,ns · iw StudL•nt 'lid (;ym !I a c . '\ote: ThE' si A·~ Sl'llio :wd mon• <liv \. illusioned by STUDENT TRAVEL It is too late now to book for Europe. But don't miss next Christmas Vacation. HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER the finest gift you can give ~ , t•,rial eompr1 has been p1·o t•> makP edu< ··,mmunitv, ' \im of th~· p' • • 1 '•nitt••t•';; eurl'i dol's not at a CONSULT US FOR ALL YOUR iRA VEL NEEDS. Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7·8506 Agen~s For All Leading Airlines - Steam Ship - Rail- roads and Car Rental Cos. 4 .LJ..&.•J.A•A.LAA.t.4.1.444'+A.4 Coin- op Cleaning $2.00 For 8 Lb. leave it - We Do It D&S at SHERIDAN PLAZA up Rosa Rd. from Ellis Daily-8:30A.M. - 9 P.M. Sat. til 6:00 Dl 6-9866 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL- CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL • CHARTER BUS LARGEST SElECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies- Jewelry- Gifts- Hi Fi Equipment Open 1 1 A.M. to 9 P.M. - Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE ~~~'#:'~'~';'~\~'~\~'~':'~'~'~\~# .. ~.,.~,~.,.:.,.~,..,.~.,.;,.~ ___ ,_, ......... _ ... _.,.,,: I The GALLEY \ fA.py TWJ~1-~·FLEX- wAtcH BRACELET (as featured on \The Jack Paar Show\ NBC-TV Network Friday night) DIAMOND Lll Gold Filled tt9,95 FTI FIESTA Gold Filled $J.95 fTI 1735 VanVranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 1 * LARGEST IN TOWN I 1 S c H A M B U R G E R 1 Many Others For Your \ Personal Selection ~~J ~R~~s- - ~ ~~ -- (~i~~ -~~~t- ~~~~~- ~~~ I French Fries _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 12c ! Thick Shakes ___________________ 20c 1 Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! ~·~~~~ DAVE'S s;quir~ !Sl]np i!J_ L The r< , tion of tea<'hE We have con · · Perts in thei 1 people outsk • ,.,gist i:-; a ~< 1 I •·xpeded to j: \ l I. The l'P] 1 • 'lP advenlur 1 1ted fields o ' ! ' · nn i's trulr l · ·!latmf' in I- I n~ that PULl J· ·he view tha · ' ali,;t worki· at that a n · \ embat·k,.; ' · ·lge. Ill. Thl' • fa cult v VE : uticipate i ! 1in~, an un• ~ ·sponsihle 1 · rahle. IV. The ·:Leu! ty into ··ut there ,,. . ill welcnm '''Jte<i srhola <!tool the f . >mpetence. l'reeept• , .:tr concept :·.·el it woul irogram. If · ·sitated to L. Horov. S. Morse A. Jeffre R. Warm 0. Roser J. Upton L. Dittle

+ Saturday, May 8, 1965 (Continued from Page 1) United States is driving head- long into China and Russia who are competing wi-th each other to 1 aid :North Vtetnam. Pakistan and I ' 1 ' India are outwardly cri·tical of \ U. S. policy and Japan merely pays lip-service to A. merican pol-~ icy. Sukarno of Indonesia stated •l' that \thousands of volunteers\ would go to the defense ef North Vietnam. Morse feels that war is only beneficia:! to the Communists. Furthermore war makes Commun-: ists where none existed before and produce·s a breakdown in so- ciety which the Communist can GL 25 1· easily exploit. \It is not going to de feat the Viet Cong,\ the Sena- tot·. \It is going to have no other· result than to bring China and Russia, as well as the U. S. into 'l the wa-t·.\ United States Guilty The senior Senator from Ore- gon stated that the United States Presidential Candidates, Richard Sifton, left; and Raymond Pike, right. Archi- •J is guilty \of substituting the jun- gle law of military might for the often pi•ofe·ssed ideal of the rule of law through international · Candidates Offer Views s)-(Sees. ves) ·~ agreement in case of threat for the peace of the world.\ The United States, he sta-ted, has the duty of bringing the Vietnam question before the U.N. Air J• raids on North Vietnam have been Hlegal under the UN charter and have only served to alienate the major countries of Asia. , 1 , 1 In n<J way suggesting that North Vietnam has not also been guilty of illegal action under in- ternational law, Morse says that violations .by <Jne side do not ex- cuse violations by the other. Peace in Law Morse asks all the non-partici- pating nations of the world to .~ 0 live up to the obligations of inter- national law and convene an in- ternational peace conference. The only attet\llative to this is wa1•, n1orse concluded his address by quoting President Johnson's ad- monition - \Come and I'ea·son to- gether.\ Dominican Republic and Gov. In a press conference pl·eced- ing the convocation, the Senator expressed his views on U. S. ac- tion in the Dominican Republic. He said that the United States PhiP acted correctly in, sending ships and armed forces f<Jr the purpose and of evacuating American nation- als. However, he stated that the United States wa:s wrong by not giving strong support to the fall- Design- en constitutional government of the Dominican Republic. He stat- ed \When the chips are down, the ·nited States can not be counted on to support freedom.\ Pike It's absurd to have students take over management of educa- tional enterprises, hut it's equally absurd to say they should be ignored. In essence, so says Kingman Brewster, President of Yale. It is the job of the Student Council through its president, to see that they aren't ignored. The students have a great deal to say on many, many issues; and\ twenty-seven representatives see to it that all of the views are heard. Through this organization, the Student Council, amid its un- defined boundaries and preroga- tives, the issues are taken to the administration. What are the issues this year? Many are the same, which might mean some- thing has been amiss-that they haven't been resolved. At Union they do take some time to re-. solve and debate our interests. Social rules, apathy, faeulty sal- a1·ies, these will take time; and even then students won't have the last say. Unles someday the Student Body becomes involved enough in an issue to shake off the label of apathy which seellls to stick so well. The Intercollegiate Council Sifton In the next few years, Union College will change so radically that it will be in many respects unrecognizable to even the most recent graduates. .Such funda- mental changes as a new calen- dar, a vastly expanded physical plant, an enlarged student body, •and a changed administration, will present problems and chal- lenges which Union has never before had to face. The creation of a student cen- ter has long been of concern to the college community. In the past year, the project has come closer to reality. As president of the Student Council, I would make every attempt to obtain a larger voice for students in the planning of this and other proj- ects. A student center will serve the needs of students best if the students themselves are allowed to determine what recreational and organizational facilities are to be provided. The recently formed ICAC, created without the desires of in- terested students taken into ac- count, has proven unpopular. I would encourage the Student Council, in conjunction with the Block U society, to seek a satis· factory solution to this problem; the present membership of the ICAC, as well as causing discon- tent on campus, is adversely af- fecting alumni relations and con- tributions. which involves Union with the area colleges has a great deal of potential and should receive full support of the Student Body. Your representatives spend a good deal of time on weekend meetings of this group and have put much effort into this organi- may pick up their zation. announcements and Union should not from Mrs. Marra in in any conference In the area of social rules, it get involved is ridiculous to promise specific which can't action. Liberal attitudes, how- ever, are becoming more respec- table in academic circles with the passage of time. We should avail ourselves of every opportun- ity to take advantage of this new approach toward change and ex- perimentation. ~.J~ &lVI ... ET Paar Sllaw\ night) ·Ill 'I'D the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall. I (Continued Bottom Column 3) Curriculum Petition ~ote: The signees were all elected to Phi Beta Kappa this week. A's seniors, we have for four years awaited a more challengi!J-g and mo1·e diversified course of study. We, however, are greatly dis- illusioned by the faculty's and administration's proposal for precep- torial comprehensive education. Although comprehensiv~ education has been proposed as an :attempt to ~trengthen. the curnculum and to make education at Umon a more vital expertence for the college It is painfully obvious that the faculty at Union is not given adequate pay or working condi- tions. I would encourage students to become involved in this issue for their own sakes, even if such involvement could be only for the record. community we feel that the introduction of preceptors negate's the aim of the' plan. We find that the following material from the com- ; ll •• ,..o,.,,,.,, .. ., curriculum report (A Report on the Curriculum, March 1965) does not at all live up to our educational expectations. There are many other prob- lems and issues: I have outlined what I consider to be some of the more important ones which will confront this and future Stu- dent Councils . ~ I. The report states, \Fundamen1l3;l to this c~mcep~ is. the rela,~ tion of teacher and student as partners m an experience m discovery. e have come to Union College to be taught by people who are ex- perts in their respective fields. We do not want to be taught :t>Y people outside their own area'S of competence .. We feel that a bw- log-ist is a ·scholar only within the realm of b~ology. He ~annot be expected to present a scholarly treatment df Crime and Pumshrnent • II. The report states \Part ·Of the excitement would come from the adventure of a rna~ mature in his profe·ssion, into new but re- lated fields of knowledg~, demonstrating to the students that educ-a- tion i's truly a lifetime engagement.\ It seems t? u.s that a man \mature in his own profession\ and excited about It, ts demon.strat- ing that education is a lifetime engagement. We take exceptton to the view that a preceptor will generate more excitement _than a SJ?€· cia!ist working in his own field. In addition, we would h~e. to pomt out that a mediocre professor does not become more exc1tmg when he embarks \on the adventure into\ new and related fields of knowl- edge. III. The report sbate'S \The committee recognizes certain limits t,J faculty versatility and does not intend to sugg~st th~t ~1 ~acuity participate in all parts of the program.\ We thmk this Is, If any- thing, an understatement. The present faculty could not carry out a Jesponsible preceptorial program even if such a program were de- sirable. I am asking for the support of the student body in the belief that I am best qualified to con- front these problems and to serve the needs of the campus. (Continued from Column 2) even please the students most directly affected-the athletes. They have definite views, which at•e very well founded, of course, and they must be heard. The Block U Society can represent the athletes much better than one man, no matter what his at- tribute may, or may not, be. For three IV. The report state·s \Ther~ seem~'! to be no need. to 'retool' _the Generations • · faculty into a gr~mp of Professionals m Comprehe!l~Ive. Education, · but there will ar1se problem areas where the participatmg faculty will welcome, the committee concluded, the advice and com1cil of noted scholars in the fields involved.\ There should be no need to · Those retool the faculty - they should never leave their own areas of Who Know , competence. SUMMARY Have been recommending - Curriculum Passed • • • (Continued from Page 1) 1 Studies, does not see the pro- Theodore Lockwood on Thursday, posed preceptorial program as a disputed the contention that terrible threat to professional- learning together generated an ism, since \most of us are now excitement which would come teaching outside of our speciali- from the adventure o±\.a man, \rna- ties.\ Both he and Professor D. ture in his profession, into new Richard Weeks, Chairman of the but related fields of knowledge, Division of Humanities, spoke demonstrating to the students· favorably of the proposed that education is truly a life-time changes in the school year and experience.\ The petitioners curriculum, recognizing the ex- \take obiection to the view that cit~ment and necessity of change, a preceptor will generate more whde also realizing the difficul- excitement than a special'ist ties which the faculty now faces working in his own field.\ in instituting the new plans. In the summary to the petition, the members of the honor society· p • D expressed their feeling that \it rtze . a y • • • would be a mistake for the college to embark upon such a program.. (Continued from Page 1) If it had been in effect here four· ton Hymes Sternfeld Prize, years ago, we would have hesi-, George C. Papanicolaou. tated to apply to Union.\ The Science Department prizes 5 Parents ••• (Continued from Page 1) The Union-Skidmore Orchestra, the Union Brass Choir, the Union Woodwind Quintet, and the Union College and Elmira College Glee Clubs, along with members of the Albany Symphony Orche'stra, will present musical pieces at a public concert in Memol'ial Chapel, at 8 P.M. Jackson's Gardens is open until 6:00 P.M. today. The Mountebanks will prese-~ Euripedes' Greek tragedy, Bip- polytus, at 8:30 P.M. Saturday in Nott Memorial Theatre. In Interdenominationa·l Chapel Service will be conducted .Sunday, May 9, 1965 at 11:00 A.M. in Me- morial Chapel. Phil Evans has arranged much of the .progt·am a·s Delphic Society Chairman. Phi Bete. • • The text of the Phi Beta were 'bestowed upon the follow- Kappa petition appears on this ing people; Edward J. Kodl and. Stephen W. Forster, Donald R. (Continued from P-age 1) page. Akerblom Summer Field Course The chapter is ·expectional in the Engineers Enthusiastic Scholarship; Richard L. Foland, number of faculty members who However, all comment on the Robert M. Brady Prize; Dominic are members. curricular revisions was not neg- I. Poccia and Stephen J. Isser Since 1776 ative, as the passage of the plan Robert M. Fuller Prizes; Willian{ The society was the first Greek signifies. The Division of En- T. Delaney, Edith Emilee Mac- letter fraternity founded in the gineering was very enthusiastic Coy Prize; Melvin B. King, United States. This took place at on the general set-up of the plan. John Lewis March Prize; Michael the College of William and Mary Moreover, Chairman of the Di- A. Graber, James Henry Turn- in WiJliamsburg, Va., in 1776. vision, H. Gilbert Harlow, felt bull Prize. It was a secret society with that there was a reasonable en- Engineers and Debaters oaths, handshakes and mottos, thusiasm for even the preceptor-. Engineers also received numer- with a purpose of stimulating ial program. Professor Harlow ous prizes as follows: Warner philosophical and political dis- does foresee, however, some King Prize, Lawrence E. Me- · cussion. In 1875, the society .problem in getting down to the Cray; Daniel F. Pullman Prize, opened its doors to women and thirty-six course limit at the be- Jared J. Wolf; Mortimer F. at the same time changed its ginning. Because of the problems Sayre Prize, Michael C. Mes- function from a debating society of compressing the rigorous en- link. to an honor society for upper- gineering program into the new Debating awards were also classmen. format, the division will initially given. George F. Allison Prizes ================ operate on a thirty-eight course to Robert A. Stolzberg, Benjamin plan, which will include four B. Wechsler, II, and Michael W. fractional, or half, courses, such Bloome; Donald Coulter Prize to as graphics. Alon Jeffrey, and the James Professor Neal Allen, Chair- Goodrich-A!lexander Duane Prizes man of the Division of Social to A!On Jeffrey and Joseph Sawyer. s. c. • • • (Continued from Page 1) the Operations Committee. He commended the success of this past weekend as a forerunner of future big-budget weekends . FERRO PHARMACY 575 N,ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS BAR SUPPLIES NOVELTIES POLYETHELENE R E N T A L S 1 CELLOPHANE GLASSWARE DISHES SILVEIIWAIIE DACY PAPER CO. Succea1or to J. NOGEE & SONS, Int. Established 11$1 WHOLESALE DISTRIIIUTOIIS PAPER-PAPEI IIAGS STATIONERY - SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 Exciting New Designs RINGS True artistry is expressed in the briliiant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en~ gagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ... a perfect gem of flaw- less clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. Your very personal Keepsake is awaiting your selection at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. Find him in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ Prices from $100 to $2500. Rings enlarged to show beauty of detail.®Trade• mark registered. ------------------, HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING Preceptorial Comprehensive Education is not commen·surate with our concept of a challenging, saholarly approach to le·arning. We f€€1 it would be a mistake for the college to embark upon such a program. If it had been in effect here four years ago, we would have hesitated to apply to Union. HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engagement and Wedding\ end new 12-page full color folder, both for only 25¢. Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-poge Bride's Book. Your ;I L. Horowitz M. Goldberg S. Isser S. Morse M. Jay T. Boright A. Jeffrey T. Di Cerbo A. Berkowi•tz R. Warner L. McCray R. Hoffman 0. Rosenbloom R. Aron W. Dunning J. Upton D. Anderson C. Pankeniel' L. Dittleman H. Holder H. Altnador Maurice B. Granbart & Sons \•3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY I Hame'----------~------------~-------- 1 Address._ ____________________ _ l ·City . Co. . State'--- '-_ ~EPSAKE_DIA~ND ~~GS, ~Y!:ACUSE, !_l0:· _2320~ J

Saturday, May 8, 1965 5 t? 1 , , ~~~~~ ft~om• l'~~ge 1) l 'nitl'd Statt·~ is driYing- ht•ad- : .. ng- into < 'hina and l{u,;sia wh\ .<l'l' t'IIIH']Jl'\ing with t•at·h o!ht•r to Curriculum Passed • • ( ( 'ont;.nuPd .from l'agP 1) :-'twlit•;;, dot>:< not .-<t'l' tht> J>l'<>· Parents • • ( < 'ontinul·d from Page 1) Th<• l'ninn-Skidnllll'l' Orchestra, tiH· l'ni\n Hra.\'' Chnil', thP l'nion \\''\\h' ind quintl't, and tlw l'nion i'olll'g·,, and Elmira ( 'nllt•gP ({leP ( 'luhs, al\lli.: \\·ith !lll'mht>r=' of thP .\ lh:llly ;;yn1phony < lt·,·lwstra, will prPs•·nt tnu.;il'al pi<'<'I'S at a public t'<>lll't·rt in :\lt•tnorial Clwprl, :1t 8 1'.:11. + ) re, Archi- ) ves) and Go\'- ,id ~orth \'.t•tnam. htkistan and lndi:t alt' IIUtwanlly tTitical of 1·. S. polk~· and .Japan llH'I'Ply pays l ip-,wrvi\''' lo Anwrh·an p<>l· It'\', SnkanH> of IndoiJPSia stutt>d tl{at \thon~and· o!\ \'II[UiltPer,;\ ,\\IIUh:l go to tlw dt•t't•I!Sl' of' :\orth ,. il't num. :\lon;t• ft•t•ls that wa1· is onlv '<l'Jtl'f·i.l'ial t11 tht• ('lltHmunist~. i\urtlwmH>l'l' W:Il' makt•s <'<>llllllun. 1:-lb wlwre lllllll' l'Xistt·<·i lwJ'on• ;llHi prodm·t•,; a bn•akdown in S<>· ,·id\' which tlw ('lllllHJUnist t'<HI ,·a:<ily t·xploit. \It is not )!;oing to 1 : ,[l' fl'at tht• \'itt Cong,\ tht• SL•na-, t.JI'. \ll is goit.Jg' to have no otht•r: · : 1 .. sult than to hrin·g China and I i. [{ussia, as \H•ll as tlw l'. S. int\ i .. th11 \\'ar.,, ThPtll]on• L<ll'kwood llll Thur~dav, JH>Sl•d frl'l'l'l'J>torial pt·ogram a,; :1 . di,..putPd tlw l'Oiltentinn th;tt: t~lTill 1 l' thn•al t\ pnd't·;;;,;ional- lc·arning togl'lht•r gt•twratt·d an. i,..m, \inn• \111\\t .,f us an• !Jil\1' coxl'itl'lllt•nt wlt;,.IJ would l'llllll' t•·al'iring .. ut,;ide .,f uut· Sfll'ciali- fJ·Iltll thl' adH·ntun· uf .. a man, \ma- t't·s.\ Both lH• and l'r<~ft·ssot· IJ. t t:n· in his profL•ssilln, into llt'\1'! Hic·haJ d \\'•·.l'ks. t '!Jai l'l!llln of thl' IJL!t rvlatL•d til'lds of' knowlt•dg'l', l!l\'lstun of Humantlll•s, opokl' dl'ntonstntting tu tht· studpnls tavo1·ahl~· of thl• propu:<Pd that l'dcl!'atiot< is tJ•ulv a lift·-time t·l:angt•s 'in tht· s.'hool ~·,·ar alld <'XJH•rit•nt•t·.\ Tht· · pl'litioJH•rs t'~ll't'it-Uiultl, l'<'<'~>gni:-ing tht• <'X· \t:d:t• ollil'<'tillfl to till' view that t'lll'Hil'flt <Jild l'll't'l'Ss!t~· of l'ltallgt•. a pn•t·t•pt•q· \\'ill gt•nt•ratP mon• whih· aJ:;,, n·alir.ing- tltr diffi,·ul- t·xt··tt•nwnt titan a Sfll't·ialist ~it•s. 1\·l~il'h tlw t'antlty now fa<'<':< wot·king in his o\\'ll fi.eld.\ Jll lHstltUtlng till' Ill'\\' pla.n,;. Prize Day • .. • ({'ontiJ.Jtil'd ftom l'ag·e I) :on ll~·llll's :-'tt•t·nf't·ld l'l'iz<', Gt•nrg·,, ( ·. l'apaniC'ol:iou, Tlw ;;t'il'llt't' [h·pal'tm(•JJ\ Jl'l'iw,; ,J:u·ksnJJ',; c:ardt•Jis i\ opt•n until li :110 1'.:\1. today. Tltt• }],.unt .. banks \viii prt·>'>:\ l·:ur:pt•d<·:<' < :r<·Pk trag-Pdy, Hi.p- pol)·tus, at X::\(1 P.:.\1. ::;attll·day in .'\o~tl :\ll'IIH>I'ial Tlwutl'P. ln lnt<·rd•·ll\lllinati .. nal ChapP! SP!'\·i···· wi II hP l'ond uctt•d Sunday, :\!a,· !J, l!lliii at II :011 :\.:\1. in :\lP- Ill<•i·ial <'Impel. l'hil Evan.; ha,; a n·angPd much ,,f' thl' pr\gran1 as Dt>lphic SoriPty ( 'hai t·nmn. l'nilt•d States Guilt)· Tht• st•niol' St•nator fl'orn Ot.'P- Presidential Candidates, Richard Sifton, Jpft; and Haymond J>ikt>, dght. ~on stated that tht• l'nitPd Sla·teo · -- --- --- In lltt• Sllllllll<IIY to till' ]ll'tition, tIn· llll'llllwrs of tilt· hlllllll' s•wil'tV l'Xjltl'S;;l'd tht•ir fl'Pling that \i't \Yould ht· a nlistakl' J'or tltt• collt•g't' to t•tuhark UJlllfl sUC'h a program. If it had '\'''II in t•ff't•c·t hl'l'l' four :n·ars ago, \l'l' would ha n• lwsi- tatl'd to apply tu l'nion.\ ThP tt·x t of t lw Phi Bl'ta Kappa p..titi~>n apjwars on this \\'(''''' hl·\t\'w,·d urH•n thp follow- Phi Bete ing- fll'<>)Jil'; Edwat·d J. Kndl and • • • !\tl•plwn \\'. Forstl'l', ll\mtld H. ( <'ontinued from Page 1) 1' i\ guilty \nf substituting- tlw jun- ' l!,'[p law of ntilit!u·~· tHi.l';ht for thP >~ftl'll professed ideal of thP ruiL· ,.f law thn>ugh intl'rnatiunal , ag'l'el'llll'llt in cast' of tln·eat for. ' • t.lw (ll'll('l' of tlw \\'ol'id.\ ThP l'nited ::;tate,;, ht• ,;tatL•d, ha,; tht• ,Juty ot' lll\ing-ing tht• ViPtnam qut•stion bdot·e tlw L'.:\'. Air < ~raids on :\urth \'ietn·am have !wen illt>g:tl utHIPr thL• l':\ t·hal'ter and ha\'l• only st•n·ed tu aliL•nate the· major t'IIUlltl'ies of Asia. • In no 1\'ay suggesting that :\orth \'iPtnam has not also hL'l'n g·uilty of illt>gal action undt•t· in- 1 l<'l'll:ttional law, Morse says that \ \'iolatiorrs by one side do not l'X· • · \' <'U:<t· violations bv the other. Peace in Law :\IorsL' asks all the non-partid- ! pu·ting nation,; of the world to , \lin· up to the obligations of inter- national Ia\\' and l'onvene an in- tPrnu ti<l!la! pl•at'l' confen•nl'l'. The .. nlv alternative to this is wat·. '· :\I,ll·se t'l)llelutll·d his addre:>s bv l i flquoting l're,;idPnt Johnson's ad- monition - \l'onw and n~a~on to. ~t. 1 thPl'.\ Dominican Republic 1 t In a p.ress conference preced- ing· the t·onv<H'ation, the Senator· L'XpreS~Pd hi:' views on l'. S. ae- Candidates Offer Views Engilll't'rs Enthusiastic llo\\·en•r, all l'omment on the Pike It's absurd to havp students takt• oH•r mtmagement of edut'a- tional enterprise~, but it's equally ai>sut•tl to say they should be ig'lll>red. ln essence, so says !\ ingman Btt•wstl•I·, P1·esident of Yall'. lt is tlw job of the Student l'ounl'il tlnough its pn·sident, to s<>P that they aren't ignored. 1'he studPnts lm\'t• a great deal to say o11 many, many issues; and \ \\l'llty·S<'Vl'll representati\·es see to it that all of tlw vit•\\'S are ht·ard. Tht·ough this nrg·anization, tht> ~tudPnt Council, amid its un- clelinL•d hount!al'i<'s and }Jreroga- tivrs, tlw issue's are taken to the administration. What are the iss ups this \'Par? Manv are the sanll'. wh icl; might mean some- thin~?: has been amh>s-that they htwn't been reso!Yed. At Cnion they du take some time to re- soln· ant! dt•hate our interests. Social rules, apathy, farult:y sal- aries, tht:st• will take time; and t:wn tlwn students won't have Sifton t urrieulal' revisions was not neg- In the next Jew vear~. l'nion' a~iv~ .. a,; th;·. pass17g~ .of th~ p~an t'ulleg-e will chang·e- so radieallv' sJ.glllfll;'s. llw Dt\'lSIOil of. E~­ that it will be in many respl·<:ts, gtnel'I'Jllg wa:o ve1·y eJ~thusmstH' unrerognizaiJie to evc•n the most 011 the genet:al .set-up uf, the plm.t. n:t·ent graduates. Such funda- · :\~o.reo\'el', C 1,1_a1rman of the Ill- mental ehanges as a new ralen- \'Jswn, ll. (,J.iJert Harlow, felt dar, a ,-astly expanded ]>hysit'al that_.,tlwre. wa~. :' rea.son~l~l; et:- plant an enlarged student bodv , thu:si.\~111 l111 e\l'll tlw pteceptoJ- and 'a changPd administratioi 1 ' tal proi:'ram. l'rofessor Harlow will present JH'ohlems and ehal~ \' d~es ' to!'l'SP.~: . h~weve.r, som~ lenges \\'hich Cnion has never ]Jl~Jh]un Ill gltttng ~!o\\tl to the before hwl to face. , t~Irty-stx eourst• ln.lllt at the be- l gtnntng. Bt•eause of the problems Tlw t'l'Pation of a student t'Pn- ut compressing the rigorous en- ter ha:> long· hl•en of coneern to: gineL•ring program into the new the college comm\lnity. In the llorma t, the di\·is_ion \:ill initially past year, the proJect has come operate on a thirty-etgh t eourse closet· to reality. As wesidPnt of plan, which will include four the Student Council, I would fraetional, or half, courses, such make e\·ery attempt to obtain a as graphie:>. large1· vuiee for students in the !'n>fessor .:\eal Alll'n, Chair- planning of this and other proj- man of the Division of Social eets. A studl•nt ePnter will serve ---- ·- the needs of students best if the students themselves are allowed to detet·m.ine what recreational and organizational farilitirs are to be provided. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Akerhlom SU!Illlll'l' Fil'ld C'<lUl'SP Tht· t'hapt<·r is t·xpt•t·tional in thl• !\l'holar~hip: Hit·hanl L. Fill and, l>Utllill'l' of J'anrlt \' llll'llli>Pl'S who HohPrt :\I. Brad~· !'t·izc•; Domini!' an• llll'lllill'l'S, · I. Po('l'ia and S!PphPn .J. l s,;t• r, Sinct· 1776 J~.,hPrt :'11. FullL•r l'ri;ws; \Villiam' Tit\ scwit'l\· \las tlw fit·st Greek 1. ll(•lant·~·, Edith Emill'l' :\lac- ll'lteJ' ft'ttlt•J:JJit\· t'mntriPrl in thl' Coy l'rizP; :\!Plvin B. King, l'nitl'd ;\tatl'S, i'lli;; took plal'e at .John, LPwis Jlllrl'h l'rizP: :\Ikhat•l till• ('.,l]Pgt• of William and :\1ary A. 1 Gra.ber, J<lllll's Hl'my Turn· :11 \\'illiam~hurg, \'a., in 1771;, hu.l I ~l'lz~·· l: \\'as a Sf'l'l'l't so!'iet~· with . l·\.ngllll'Pl's and D~haters n;:ths. halldslwkt•s and motto:>, . l·.ngll!l'~'l's also. l'l't't•J\'(•d n,Ullll'l'· \\·i:h a f>Urpo,;p oi' stimulating o,t:~s Jll'IZl:s a;; tollows: \\ at'lll'l' philosur>llt<·al and politieal dis- :Ktng- l'nz~·· L~n\Tl'JH·e L ~le- n•s;;iotJ. Itt rx-;-ii, thl' society (ray: Ilalltl'l I•. !'ullman Pnze, npt·nt·d its doors to women and .Jan•d J. Wolf: :\lortinH·r F. at till' ~aJJJt' tinH· r·hangetl its Savn• l'rir.l', :\lic·had C. :\lt·s- fl!lll'tion fr.,m a dPIJating- soril'ty link. tl) an holltlt· :-;cl('ivty fut• uppur- j)p],ating- aw;trds \H•n• also dassna•JJ. gin·n. c;l'>~l'f.\:l' F. Allisutt l'r·izl'~ ...;.~..;.;.;..;,.;..,;,_ __________ _ t11 l{ohvrt .\. ::;tolzht•rg-, Bt•njamin S C H. Wel'ilslt·t·, II. and :\lil'hael \\'. • • Bloome; Donald ('oultL•r Pl'ize to (!'ontinut•d fr•llll l';tg-P 1) Alotl Jptfn·y, and thl' James rht· Opt•rations Conllnittel'. He (;oodt·it'h -A1exandt·r Duam· l'l'iws ''\IIIIIIL'tllkd thl' ~Ul't'l'>'S of this t11 Alun Jptfn•y and Jusl'ph p:tsl \\'l'l'kt•JJd a\ a J'on•runnt•r ol' Sawyl'r. l't:tur,• J.ig-hwlgd \l't•ekends. tion in tht• Dominican Republic. t!lc' last sa;.·. Unles someday the lie said that the l'nited States StUtlL·nt Bndy becomes invohed Phtl-\ t- :t!'ll'd l'onectlr in sending ships I L·noug·h in ';in issue to .shake off ami armed forces for the purpose 1 the lc_~bel of apathy wh1eh seems The rl'cently formed ICAC, created without thL• desires of in- i ten•sted students taken into ac- count, has proven unpopular. I would encourage the Student Council, in conjunction with the Bloek L\ soeiety, to seek a satis- factory solution to this problem; the present membership of the IC..\C, a,; Wl'll as causing discon- tent on ('ampus, is adversely af- fl'cting alumni relations and eon- Schenectady, N. Y. Exciting New and Design 2 liVI Paar Show\ night) Your tion .,f t•\·acuating American nation- I to, ;;tJl'k so well. . . a b. H\wever he statPd that thr ~ht· . I ntert·olle.g-J.al~· .Council , l'nited States was wrong by not. wluch Jllvol ves t: mon w1th the ~i\·ing strong support to the fall-' an•a roli~ges has a great d~al ··n mn;;titutional g·m·et·nnH•nt of j t~f potent 1al ~~nd should receive 'tw Dominit:an I~epublk. Hl• ,;tat- 1 full sUIJJlOtt of tlw Student Body. · ··d \\1\'lwn th<· t'hips are down, tlw \our reprPsL•ntative,; spend a ' l'nitt•d Stat<'s can not ht· ,·ountt·d good dl•al of time on weekend · •II to support freedom.\ meet i11gs of this Rroup and have put mueh l'ffort into this organi- zation. ;-;,.niot·s may pick up tlwi1· , :: raduation annount'Pllll'llts anti .ndtation,; l'rom :\Irs. :\lotrru in · lw Studt•nt .\divitiPs Offil'e in < >ld (iym HaiL l'ni1111 should not get invohed i11 anr confl'll'IH'P whieh c~m't (Continued Bottom Column 3) Curriculum Petition . '\ute: The signpes \ere all elected to !'hi Bt>ta H:ap1>a this week. A's senilll'S, Wl' havP for fout· year,; awaitPd a morP rhailengi!1g :cllll nll>l'l' d.ivL·rsifktl eoursl' of study We, hO\\'l'\'t'l', are greatly (h:s· l illu;;ioned by the !'al'ulty's and admini;;tration's propos~! for prec:·p- ,1 ', t•>rial l'omprehensivt' edueation. Although eomprehensl\'~ Ptluca t1on ha,; been pt·opnsed as an attempt to ~trengthen. the eurrirulum and t•> makP edueation at 'Cnion a ll1:1l'P v1tal (•xpenen<'P fnr the college ''<llllll11.lllitv we fpe[ that tlw introduction of preceptors negates the :tim of th~,' plan. We f1nd thttt the following material from the c-om- •• 1 '•nittt•t•'s cmrieulum report (.-\ l{e[>ort on the Curriculum, March lfl65) dot·s not at ai!Ji\·e up tn our l·dueational expectations. I. The report states, \Fundament~! to this c?nrPP! i:>. the rela,~ , tion of teacher and student as partners man exper1enre m d1scoverr. . r \ We hm·p <:onw to Union College to be taught by people who are ex- : nerts in their n•,;pel'tive field,;. We do not \Yan~ t<! be taught ?Y : people outside their· own are~1s of cDmpetence .. \\ l' feel that a bto- ' ··>gist is a !>eholar onlv withm the rl'alm of btnlog-y. He l'annot bE.' •I \Xpeded to pn•sent a scholady ll't'atment of ('rime and Punishment. \ II. ThP n•po1·t state,;, \!'art of. the. excill'llle!lt \:ould come from • · •w adventm·e of a man, mattH'P tn hts profes:oH>n, mtn new but t·e- ' J , <ted. fields of kn~:l\\·l~dge, demrmstmt[pg to the ,;tuden~s that ed uea~ r · 1)11' !':> trulv a l!.fetlmr engag-enwnt. It seems to u\ that a man l · ·naturP in his own profp;;sion\ and t>Xcited about it, is demon.strat- 1 ng- that l'dura-tion is a life~ime engagement. W~ take excep·tton to J. ·he view that a prc<'l'ptor Will genPrate more exe1tement .than a SJ?e· , ali\t working in his own field. In addition, ·we \\'ould l!~e. to pomt ~tt that a mediocre profes.o;oJ' does not become more excttmg \\;hen · .. em·bark,.; \on tht• ath·rntut'P into\ new nne! relatt>d fields of know!- . ·lge. Ill. The rpport ,;tates \The rommittPe recognizes certain limits . facultv vei·satility and does not intend to suggest that all faculty : tlticipa'te in all parts of the program.\ Wf' think this is, if any- ~ 1ing un unde1·statement. The present faculty could not cany out a ~ ·spo~sihle preceptorial pl'Ogmm evc>n if ~urh a program we1·e de- - rahle. IV. The reporL states \Then; seem~ to .h~ no need. to \<'lool' ,the ':tculty into a group of l'mfesswnals m Comprehensive r~ducatton, <Ut there will arise p1·nblem areas where the participating fa-culty . ill welcome, the committee conrluded, the advice and council of • IJterl scholars in the fields inmlved.\ There should be no need to '!tuol the faculty - ther should nen1· leave their own areas of . Hnpetence. SU:.\DIARY tributions. In the al'Pa \f social rules, it is l'idimlous to JH'omise specifie action. Liht>ral attitudL•s, how- PYN', are bt>t'llllling· more n•sper- tahle in at·at!emic eircles with thP passage of tinw. We should avail ourseln•s of every opportun- Ity to take adnllltage of this new approach towat·d change and ex- pPrimPn tat ion. It is painfully obvinu,; that tlw fal'Ult~· at l'nion is not gi\·en !!<~Pquate pay or working condi- tions. I would encourage students J to heeome inYoh·ed in this issue 1 for theil· own sakes, even if such itlYolvemE•nt could he onlv for the I ]'(~COrti. • i There are many other proh-1 ],•ms and issues: I ha\'e outlined I what I consider to be some of· the more important ones whieh I will confront this and future Stu-1 dent Councils. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAl N SUPPLIES SAR SUPPLIES POL YETHELE NE CELLOPHANf DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVEL TIE$ RENTALS I GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER CO • Succouor to NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Established 1 881 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schonoctady 5, N. Y • I am asking fot· the suppol't: :::====::;::=========~ of th<> student hotly in the belief· 1 that I am best qualif1etl to eon- 1 L. G. BALfOUR CO. 1 1 front these problems and to I serw the needs of the campus. i CARL SORENSEN (Continued from Column 2) even please the students most· directly affected-the athletes. They have definite views, which i are very well founded, of course, and they must be heard. The Block U Society r.an represent the athletes much better than one man, no matter what his at- tribute may, or may not. be . For three Generations • Those Who Know Have been recommending - HERSHEL BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 MAURICE B. WALTER l'receptorial Compn·hensive Education iR not t'ommensurale \\'ith • 11' concept of a challenging, srholarly app1·oarh to learning·. We :·,,e] it would be a mistake for the college to embark upon such a i rogram. If it had be,•n in effert here fnul' yrnrs ago, we \\'oulrt have .,~~~~:~:~:ply In en;<>~: J:;\b\g * ~~~~ht I Mauriue B. Granbart & Sons A. Jeffrey T. Di Cerbo A. Berkowitz 1, R. Warner L. McCt·ay H. Hoffman 0. Rosenbloom R. Aron W. Dunning I J. Upton D, Anderson C. Panken·ier L. Dittleman H. Holder H. Altnador 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Designs RINGS True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en- gagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond.,. a perfect gem of flaw- less clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. Your very personal Keepsake is I awaiting your selection at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. Find him in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ Prices from $100 to $2500. Rings enlarged to show beauty of detail.®Trade· mark registered. ------------------; HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To P·lan Your Engagement and Wedding\ and new 12-page full calor folder, both for only 25('. Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-page Bride's Book. Name ____________________________________ _ I I I I l l I Address I I CitY-- ._Co. Stole : L. _ ~E~~E_D~~~ _!l_!:::,G~ _:v!:A~USE, _!}·.!_· __.: 3~0~ .J

PHI BETA KAPPA Page2 Concordy Sports CURRICULUM PAGEl 0 < Garnet~ 9 & 1, Battles Stevens~ Clarkson; Track~nen Crookes Will Face Rochester Today Run Over Time Out: Don't Bump Tbe Ump Vol. 94 · Panthers· By Eric Singer ~ Already assured of a winning' f tl 1 B 1 ft th \ d 11 ff B · th season the Dutchmen upped or 1e . < ay. rown e e earne · ones, a· o rown m e .. r Dea1 By Andy Colb h · ' 9 1 . mound m the ninth, as Frank bottom of the ninth, however, t e1r _record to - last Wednes- D'Allaird came in to strike out gave both Union and Brown their day • u: a game that turned_ o_ut the side, sealing Union's ninth first setback of the year. The to be a ~' 0 ! 11 P· ~he latest Vlctlm victo1·y of the campaign Brown final score was 6-5, four of Ho- of the Umon nme was Stevens · · . h ' · h' d Institute \Jf Technology wh'cl rece1ved credit for t e wm, iS bart's runs being unearne . ll d - b 1 1 second of the year. Crookes Hitting .369 By Gary VauGraafeiland . After losing its first three ·!----------------------------• S meets, the Union College track The Russians invented baseball, and to the Russians it will :re- t , J( top team sprang to life a week ago turn. Our peace-mongering buddies acl'oss the world won't even have · Wednesday at Burlington, edging to them on a silver :platter adorned with the blue uniform of the · the University of Vermont '73-67. to them on a silver platter ·adorned with the blue unu~form of the 3D· J•S was tot31 y emohshed Y the A 1 y earlier the Garnet had seore of lU-1. c a · 1 . h With such a fine record, the With Gary Brown on the played host to C arkso_n_ m w at Dutchmen obviously sport. many mound seeking his second victory was to be the mo:5t ex~'itmg game honorable and noteworthy sta- And then, on a fine spring week- plate umpire at our Clarkson game. end Saturday, the team posted If the umpiring of baseball contests at Union isn't greatly il.n- \ . h , of the season. W1th Rrck Crookes of t e seus~n, SteYe_!ls t~ok. an pitehing, the teams went into the tistics, both individual and team. early lead m the first mnmg. t f the ninth deadlocked at The three top Garnet batters all A two-base error by Art Mar- op 0 boast averages above .300. shall, starting at shortstop, com- two ai_J. Clarkson had scored. 0 the Crookes leads the team with a l1ined with a stolen base and a eac.h 11 ~ .the second and SlX. ' mark of .369, followed by Toth victory number two, burying proved, there is no ,reason for other colleges to play here. For ~~e The Uni Middlebury 106-32. first time in many years, Art Lawrence ha·s assembled talent,. spmt nearly beca Running- against Vermont, it and energy ,to ·create the winningest ball club at Union since 1957. second stud was Dave Ring who pulled the The boys talk it up on the field and on th~ bench, ~ome through with , years late meet out of the fire for the base hits in the clutch, and come from behmd to wm. They are great However, < •'ld · 1 . • f· wht!e Un!Qn had come up With '' 1 p1tc 1, allo\\ ed the men rom· t . . the second With two out at .364, and then Olson with a Stevens a one run lead. It ap- . '' 0 m h. . h H k .306 average. The team average pea red that this might be all 1 ~. the to~ _of ~ e nmt '.· an is also very respectable, stand- their pitcher Wojcik might need It zybylowskt blasted a duve to ing at .247. Dutchmen. Dave won the 880, competition for any team that comes to Union to play ball. campus pol mile, and two mile runs, all long, Yet if the Clad,:;on coach refuses to play here in the future, P.e ward Polloc exhausting events, and collected is not to blame. When the plate umpire clearly allowed his persolial mobs of F: fifteen points for his efforts. As feelings and personality to influence, and indeed, pa:ss judgment at '' tempted to as he set ;!own tl~E' first nin~, d~ep left, well oyer the head of p h · Bill Toth, and mto the bushes ,utc men m order. . . 011 the left field bank. Toth' In the fourth, hO\IeVel, , t)'le charged up, got the ball, and re- Garnet batters got ~o .WoJCik. layed it in to Brown. Brov;n Bro 1 ;P opened _the mmng by threw to Cherinko at third base. d~::n\ mg a walk. ~<\fterT. B~uce By this time Przybylowski had Fike h!td !fOne do11 n sw mgmg, . d nded third and was successive smgles by Olson, Mar- a.tea_ Y rou . fi d :'!hall and Crookes gave Union on Ius way h?me. Chennko re 1 • ct 1 1 h a perfect stnke to Randy Kuhl t u ee runs, a_n ~ eac t ey were at. the plate to nail the runner n~ver to relmqUish. The <;:arnet and end the inning. The Garnet · b10ke ou! for three more m the went out in order in their half fi~th. ::::mg1es hy Kuh1, Brown, uf the ninth, sending the game F1ke, and Crookes arcounted for . t t · · tl t ]] . Th D t h 1n o ex ra mnmgs. Iese a Ie~. e u c men Cl k b k tl e tt'e t'n the d . . tl . h ar ·sou ro e · 1 :;;~ore. agam m le SlXt ' as t tl With two outs an error < hennko wa~ saf<> on an error bt-n F 1 ·. 1 J t · 1 b,- Paul 1 th 1 t t d B y 1 \e an a np e J )Y, e . ~ 101 ' s op ·an rown Fasulo gave Clarkson a one run tripled h1m home. J.n the seventh 1 ·' A t later· one of TJ • ] 1 d th ~ ' eau. nlolnen , _L niOn. conr \H r P \ay s SC'Ol'- Cr.oukes' pitches drihbled by mg with three mor·e runs, all un- Kuhl. Fasulo made a dash for the e;:rnecl. Marshall Wll;S safe on an plate, Lut Kuhl's relay to e.1 ror hy the p1tcher, Toth Cl·ookes co\'ering the plate beat smgled, Erdor~ di'€\1' a. v.:alk, and F 1 for tl e third out of the McAdams, pmch h1ttmg for asu 0 1 inning. Chcrinko, singled to center, scor- lOth Inning Decisive ing all three men on base. The Dutchmen came back with This en.ded the scoring activity two runs of their own to snatch victory away from Clarkson. With one out, Brown singled. Fike doubled to left-center, send- ing Brown to third, and Olsen was intentionally passed to load the buses and set up a force sit- uation. Marshall then came through with an infield single, scoring Brown with the tying run. At this point, with the bases still loaded, Crookes laid down a perfect bunt single, scoring Fike with the winning tally. Thus, Crookes won his own game, and picked up his sixth victory of the year without a loss. For Spring and Summer'65 ••• NOTHING CAN TOP SLACKS APPEAL®&y ASHER WITH DACRON\ Against Hobart the Dutchmen, behind Frank D'Allaird, were eading 5-0 going into the bottom of the eighth. Two unearned runs forced D'Allaird out of the game, Brown relieveing him, and retir- ing the side on strikes. Union went down in order in their half of the inning, and so took a 5-2 lead into the bottom of the ninth. Two earned runs and two un- DIAMANTE'S :njoy Our Fine Home Cooke( Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gste on Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME the final results testify, each of Tuesday's game, the sport lost all the excitement and interest it S·ide of cam these fifteen points was a must- deserves. ln the late innings with the score tied 2-2, the ump ru:led Inspired · · h that the Clarkson catcher interferrecl with Rod Cherinko's bat, and and g·enera Vermont runners fims ing second w·aved our· thll'. d sacker to first. At this catl, whose validity was .,. . to Dave in each event. (P\Jints · · ternity merr are awarded: 5 for first, 3 for questionable, the catch~r jumped up and gave the ump the full treat- on the ''hill second, 1 for third; relays: 5 for ment in a mask to mask argument. When the umpire shoved the on the othe · the winner, 0 for the loser.) catcher hack,. the Clarks0n coach entered the rhubarb. apparently : C h K t 1 t d 'th Dirt Flies •J ' pident riot oac e z was e a e Wi · Soon after the dust had settled, it was kicked up again. The Ring's performance,. and com- catcher moved backward and, acci<lently on purpose, brushed dirt Failing to mented that \he should get a on the umps blue trousers. The ump responded by kicking a small men, who b: lot of credit\ for his work at tornado of turf into the catcher's fa.ce. That brought the coach off ly back in Vermont. · his bench again. He did not sit do·wn for long, as the next few pitches Q >' :.:~~~~ed\~v Sc:hoenfelt Outstanding went for balls on very close calls. noise-makin Joe Schoenfeld, who picked up The Clarkson coach then obsequiously wiped off the dirt covered several war 12Y4 points in each of these two plate as the umpire looked on, with hands in pockets feeling thi! was return~ meets, won both the 220 and 440, · game balls. Perhaps the umpire was worried by the hoots or by the . ' the hottest placed third in the high jump, taunts of the crowd or by the taunts of the Clarkson bench; per- Stud and anchored the winning mile haps the heat of the day had made him irritable. He was indeed for- As a res relay at Vermont. Coach Ketz tunate that no scoring sit11ation developed in the eighth or ninth tlur·ing the was very pleased with the per- inning of the close contest, or he might have been pummeled by the three stud~ formance of his co-captain, and visitor's bench; or worse the visitors might have left the field in ., uy the coli cited him for a tremendous job. protest. man, who Bill Manfred was also men- Better Officials wamed aft tioned by the coach in his an- It is difficult for a small school like Union to attract the better of miscon< ulysis of the meet. Bill, who officials, since they are likely to receive either more money or man •: · h f placed second in the intermediate 1 recognition elsewhere. The situation is the same in the lacrosse ~t~::e! ~a~ Battery-mates Rick Crookes and Randy Kuhl afte1• Rick earned his 6th victm·y of the season against Clarkson. hurdles and third in the high matcht:s. Yet one would think that there are enough good, or at least refusing to hurdles, was stated to be \com- stable, umpires in the area so that a team can claim its deserved campus poli ing along exceptionally well\ in I victory or can admit a heartbreaking defeat without blaming our , t sive langua: the former. officials. Everyone likes a winn\r but nobody likes to win by bias 1 ed from th Roehm Sets Record 1 or by_ caprice. That Union wo1r _th~ Clarkson game wit!). a .tw.o-r?n Two other!: Union's pitching has been es- Garry Morris, another versa- ra!lY m the bot~om o1 the tenth mnmg to come f;'om behmd 1s mdrc- tempting tc pecially strong, with Crookes tile performer, gained third place !1-tJve of the sohd t~am, a tea~ that wants to wm, and .a. team t~at been placed again leading the squad's pitch- in the intermediate hurdles, took i~ no~ dependent upon the whims of bush tleague ump!l'lng for tts ,. , until June, ers. He has started six games, second in the high jump, and VIctones. Other cor completed five of them, won all earned a share of the victory in rising were of them, and has struck out the mile relay. Neil Campman Sf • k \1\1 B tfl T • •t over the \l forty-five men in fifty-four in- took a third in the 440, and also I ~c ers ~ 0 a e rlnl y; :House, and nings. Crookes boasts a fine 1.67 figured in the mile relay victory. Hale Hous~ E.R.A. Bob Newbegin, as usual, turned Ed!1ed B\-' MiddieS 11-J 0 also referre Frank D'Allaird has been in a steady pole vault showing, c:l' J to the In equally impressive in his appear- finishing second. Steve Roehm By Howard A. Goldberg '~ ,, o Judicial Bo ances. Frank has a record of set a new Union record in the works and 1-0 has struck out sixteen bat- triple jump, leaping 42'11%\ dToday dbefU~r~ ~ plare-nts' week- score was 11-0 at the half and noise.\ • d and finished second in the broad en crow mons acrosse team Coach Allison had alreadu been The Sch t<;rs in seventeen and two-thir s 'll t t b · ·t <I J h · .1'ump. Steve, a tough man to beat WI ry 0 rmg 1 s recor subst1'tuting' freely. No one is llaJ.'tment I innings, and as an amazmg t 3 3 · t 11 t T · E.R.A. of 0.98. Brown, while his in both events, has been a val- 'to -C 1 agamst 1 an e 11 x.ce 1 en drm- exactly sure pf the score because '' approximat4 E.R.A. stands at 3.94, has been uable asset to the team. ~ Y do feget den, w iCJ, to ate, counting that high is especially from area d P aul Woodell won the shotnut IS un e ea e · difficult on Snr1'ng Weel'elld. the noise c better than his record in icates. \ w d d M'ddl b \ ~ h d h and came in second in the discus. e nes ay, 1 · e ury, a Reports have i't that the Ga1•net IlllS. How4 He is 2-1 on t e season an as 1 • l t f · h John Willcox won both the discus oser 111 on Y wo 0 nme contests, scored seventeen t1'mes ancl • taken. Dea: been the victim of some toug · 'th f 't 1 • d f t and javelin, with AI Baskous tak- Wi one 0 i s osses com111g; at Clarkson made goalie Bob Dick- it \would l: luck, especially in his one e ~a · · 111 g thi'rd 1 ·n the J'aveli'n. John the hands of tomol'l'ow's oppon- h b 11 h · dents to ge· Fielding has held up fairlY t d t tl G t 11 10 man save t e a t ree tlmes. well also. Union has turned in Morrison finished third in the en ' nose ou 1e al'ne - . Hobart, led by Stock Buclc, yond our c< seven double plays, to their op- shotput. Bi11 Cassidy was the Union bolted from the ~tarting scored five goals in the fourth .. , call in local fi !d' fourth member of the mile relay I gate and took a comrnandmg lead quarter to put the game out ()f have the po ponen:ts two, and has a e mg team. at half time, 8-2. Middlebur¥, ~e reach of the Garnet ten. Even percentage of .906. While this Middlebury was not quite the good, strong team that lt Is, thou!!h Union was running three is not the best, it compares fa- team that Vermont was, as the came back strong in the third and sometimes a fourth midfield vorably with their opponents' score might sugge·st. Dave Ring period; b~!-t it wouldn't have been to Hobart's two, the Dutchmen • · 79 ~he Dutchmen will he going turned in two fine wins, in the enough If the Gar~e~ ha<l!l't just could not handle tl1e over- . f th ~80 and the mile as did Joe helped them Ly commJttmg thir- all :::;uneriurit\ uf the Statesmen's after their tenth wm 0 e year, Schoenfeld 1 ·n the '220 and 440. teen penalties. Mid<llebmy took r- \ · h · t d ·nst stickwork. Buck, playing almost and s1xt m a ro'.v, 0 ay agai loe also captui·ed thi'rd place 1'n advantage of these· miscues in 1 Y II · k t f R I ter the entire game either at attac> the e O\\']ar e s o oc les . the high jump, and .again an- the third. quarter by scoring four or mitlfield, due to the lack of whom the~· have already defeated •bored the winning mile relay goals while the Garnet was lack- reserves because of illness, w~s Un~ once thi~ year. Game time is set ;ualli. Bi'll Monfred won thn l'n· in_ g a man,· two of th.es.~ e. s.itu.a .. - 1 \ 30 p M Alexander •~ \' · ~un:sistentl\ coming up with oosc for _:. · · on termedt'ate hurdles and finished t10ns found the Garnet two men \ I F' 1d b<.clls. His ability to come up wit 1 . 'i Ie · second in the high hurdles: Gary down. . . the loose balls and to control tbe 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 R H E Morris captured sec@ds In the Schulthets Outstandmg ball to give his team a breather Stevens high jump and the intermediate Jeff Schultheis was outstaud- was the difference in the ball 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 3 hurdles, and again took part in ing offensively for the Garnet as game. He also had a goal and Union the relay victOl'y. Neil Campman he SGored four goals. _Defensema;n an assist which didn't help mat- 1 \ 0 0 0 3 3 1 3 0 x 10 11 1 ::tlso gained two second place fin· Tom Morgan was 111, and his ters for the Garnet. FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-1763 ishes in the 880 and the broad loss was severely felt by the Marc Hurlbut continued his jump: And he, too, figured. in the Dutchmen. Eyen t!JO'Ugh L~e Gar- fi.ne lacrosse playing as he scored relay victory. Bob Newbegm won net suffered 1ts th1rd loss mstead two goals and an assist aJJd the pole vault with Clint Brown of its fourth victory, encourage- again proved that he can sco1·e finishing seco~d. ment for the stiekmen's fans and against the tough opposition as Hunt Runs Well C\Jnfidence for themselves was well as the rinky dinks. John Peters copped the 100 and gained at the Vermont school. Leading scorers against Clilr~· . placed third in the 220, gaining Union had not been able. to prove son were Randy Westby with SIX his first six points of the seaso-n. it can play on par with more g-oals, Howie Wiedman and .Jeff Bill Cassidy finished second in disciplined and better trained Schultheis each with three goals the 440, and took part, also, in teams on its _sci:edule before it and Hurlbut with two goals and the relay victory. Bill Hunt won took on the Middles. five assists. Westby continues to ' t. the two mile run, and finished Tough Defense improve on the c1•ease and is an second to Ring in the mile. Steve Defensively, the team has been ideal target for anyone wishin~ Roehm won both the broad jump good enough. A determined con- to pick up a few assits. and the triple jump, with Jeff scientiousness about . penalties Ratner placing third in the for- will have to be initiated; and mer and second in the Jntter. continued leadership from Scbui- J ohn Morrison won the shot the is and Hurlbut in the scoTing put, Woodell taking second, and with help from Westby, Wied- Freshn1an Lacrosse Gary Brow \ When Olso advanced a B Indispensable to the well-dressed man ... Classic plain front slacks with Asher's tailoring know- how. Every jacket and shirt you own will look better with these slacks. Choose from our wide selection in stay-fresh fabrics with \Dacron\. From $00.00. DEWITT'S Willcox third. Willcox won the man and Hann should help tlle discus Woodell again copping Garnet defeat the tougher OJlpO· the s~cond spot, and Baskous sition on . its schedule. . finishing third. AI then scored a The second week of action saw second in the javelin. Coach Ketz the Dutchmen lose to an under had words of praise for this manned Hoba;rt team 11-6. S:'lt- ouartet which can be counted urday of sprmg weekend Umon The freshman Lacrosse Tearn takes a 2-1 record into a game with Siena's frosh Friday, May 7. Wednesday, May 5, they met defeat for the first time against one of the best teams in Leno:x's history, 7-1. Scoring the onlY. goal was Mike Walsh. Earlier victims of the '68 stickers wel'e Darrow, 7-5, and Hobart 3-1, :for the first victory over the States- men frosh in 5 years. Top scor-ers FollowiJ at the ex jackets o ents' Wee lege basel of one c traveled Wednesda record. I1 which nil mitted, down U() of the ye Cafeteria and Tap Room on for 'points in any meet. took apart a Clarkson ten that RPI Tuesday should have stayed home. The field an exceptionally tough are Ken Milne with 5 goals, 1 team. assist, and Lee Schneider with Z Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118. 120 JAY STREET L ~ TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Schenectady; N. Y. The coach was well pleased with the team's performances, especially the one at Vermont. Next for the trackmen comes RPI, at Troy next Tuesday. Union will be the underdog in • + 4 ,. ... ,. • • 4 _., •• • , ••• , , , j, ., \ , • • , • + , ,. • • • , , + ... • + • • • , • • this one, as the Engineers will Dave Ring, to date, leads in goals, 3 assists. Ken Auerbach total points with 44. Joe Schoen- has done a tremendous job in the felt ies second with 42%, and net with numerous saves to his Steve Roehm thhd with 37. credit . After in their I Iiams imn

Founded at .Union College 1877 Vol. 94 - No. 24 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MAY 14, 196/) PRICE 15 CENTS Colb Dean,Police Graduation Approaches For ,6SIPike And Ratner .. r will :re- ven have of the of the StopRioters; ~;:::so~::!'~:!'..s ~:~:;:;~~:;:~ Gain SC Victories 3 D . •. SCI.plt. ned By Marty Strosberg Meade Brunet, acting President of Union Col- lege, announced that Paul Mille1· ·will be the hon- Ol'ary chancellor Gf Union CO<llege and University for 1965-66. --------------~· By :Morty Kamzan I On Monday May 10, the Union College student .body elected Ray- mond Pike as its President and Jeffrey Ratner as Secretary. Al- il,n- \ For the sphit 1957. ugh with ' great · . . The graduation exercises for the Cla'ss of 1965 will begin with Class Day, held in Jackson's Gat·- The Union Co!Iege campus dens on Ftiday afternoon, June 4, sta'l:iing at nearly became the scene of the 3:00 .p.m. The Senior Dance will be held at the second student riot in as many Edison Club in Rexford on Friday . night from • years late last Sunday night. 9:00 to 1:00 with music provided by Dino Cimino. However, quick action by tl1e There is a possibility that former President Carter campus police and Dean 0. Ed- Davidson will attend both Class Day and the uture, fl.e ward Pollock quelled the building Senior Dance, although thi·s depends on Dr. bavid- persoiial · .l' mobs of Freshmen as they at- son's Washington schedule. rnent at '' it tempted to organize on the west Instead of the traditional gift of ivy, Gary S·ide of campus. Morris announced that the Class of J.965 will pre- mp ru:led I · d nspire by bugles, fireworks sent the College with an elm tree to replace the bat, and . and. general noise-making, fra~ Nott Elm which was damaged in last winter's was \ . termty membees from the houses ice storm. treat- on the ''hill\ followed the clamor Class Day Officers the h on t e other side of campus, but The Class Day officers for this year are: Gary apparently arrived after the inci- G. Brown and John J. Soper, whose duty is to The dirt ,, pid_e!lt riot had been broken up. lead the Seniors in all -academic processions; Fa1lmg to re-incite the Fresh- Thomas A. Di Cerbo, Ivy Orator, and Charles E. men, who by this time were safe- Pankenier, Jr., Pipe Orator, who will deliver hu- ly back in their dormitories, the morous addresses on the benefits which Union has a small coach off pitches Q covered thi! or by tlHJ nch; per. for- ,, second wave of hopeful rioters afforded them; Martin E. Jay, Class Hi'storian, returned to their houses for some who will speak on the events of the past four noise-making of their own. After years; Brenden P. Hutchinson, Class Prophet, who ::;ei;eral warnings by the dean, aU will express his feelings concerning the graduate's was returned to near no 1 ·nw1 on futures; John H. Hann, III, Song Leader; Daniel · ' the hottest night of the year. A. Wells, Class Poet, who will write for the oc- Student Suspended casion; and Keeper of the Jug, Joseph P. Stevens. As a result of their activities The officers were selected in a poll of the sen- during the veriod. of disorder ior rlass n t the beginning of thi:; seme>ster. Mr. Miller will deliver the ma-in address at the college's commencement exercises on June 6 and will reC'eive an honorary Dodor of Civil La'A\S 1 degree. Held Many Posts Miller is President of the Associated Press and President of the Gannett Company of Ro- che\Ster. He is the editor and publisher of the Rochester Times-Union and publisher of the Dem- ocrat and Chronicle. He is also a member of the I Pulitzer Prize Advisory B(}ard and past presi- dent of the New York State Puj)Jishers Associa- 1 tion and a trustee of both the UniveJ'sity of Ro- chester and the RD<chester Institute of Technology. Other Awards Other honorary degrees will be received by Wallace Girling, Samuel Hesslin, and Stephen W. Brennen. Wallace Girling has been a partner of Ginn and Co. since 1937 and vice-president and director I since 1957. He is a 1917 graduate of Union Col- lege and recently has been elected a life trustee of the college. or ninth ed by the e field in ., 1 three students were disciplined Academic Honors by the college. One upperclass- . Twenty-three Seniors will grad.uate with aca- Samuel He::;sin, 1927 graduate of union Col- lege was recently appointed Dean of Albany Law School. Dean Hessin received his LL.B degree from Albany Law School and his Master of Laws from Columbia. On the faculty {Jf Albany Law Sehoul since 1935, Hessin is considered an author- ity on New York State practice and procedure. Stephen W. Brennen is the retired Chief Judge of the United States District CoUJt, Northern District of New York. He attended Union College and received his LL.B degree from Albany Law School in 1915. He is a past member of the State Judicial Council. better man, who had previously been demic honors this year. warned after ::;everal incidents Graduating Summa Cum Laude are: ;.\lartin E. y or more • lacrosse at least of misconduct, including two Jay and Jared J. Wolf. · chruges of reckless driving, oper- Graduating Magna Cum Laude are: Arnold ating a car on campus illegally, ( Continuerl on Page 5) deserved ~ur ., · { n by b1as two-run is indic- team that for its I· refusing tu obey the orders of a campus policeman, and using abu- sive language, has been suspend- Construction Lockwo·od lnvi·tes IF c ed from the college indennitely. Two others, charged with \at- Sh ld S tempting to incite a riot,\ have o.u tart To Co.nst·der So.ct·al Rules been placed on General Probation until June, 1966. 'T\'h s Other consequences of the up- ~ • tS Umnter By Al Nahmias tion such as Union, discrimination ~~~:~gtheel;~b~~~~g~e~or t~e b~~Yct Construction of the new dormi- The Interfraternity Council has no place. in the fraternity ·•• : House, and a broken window in tory complex in the southwest- held its last meeting of the year SfStem and iS opposed to the Hale House. Dean Pollock has ern corner of the campus will on Tuesday evening. The major news o~ the college. Secret con- also referred several fraternities begin in July, baning unexpected item on the agenda was a talk tracts, 1p~ofar . as they prev~nt to the Interfraternity Council delay. with Dean Lockwood on campus the ~dm1mstrat10~ from knowmg .,. Judicial Board for lighting fire- The college plans .to advertise and fraternity matters. the m~ernal worlo~gs of a house \ works and causing \excessive for contractor's bids in the near Groupings Necessary regarding .such thmgs as finan- noise.\ future once the federal govern- Lockwood explained that he ces, are ~lso frown~d up~n. half and been o one is because •· especially Weekend. Gamet and • Dick- The Schenectady Police De- ment has ·approved an agreement and the administration are aware Review of Social R;u es pa1.-tment reported that it had for a $3 million loan to cover that, on any campus, some form In the ·area o~ soCJal rules, approximately fifty complaints nearly all costs. The preliminary of social grouping is necessary. pean Lockwood said that he real- from area residents concerning application has already been Other campuses have dining izes tha~ m~ny students find .th~t the nol \se comJ'ng from the cam- judged acceptable, and final con- clubs lJOuse systems etc while the social Jules are not w1~hm ·a t' f th 1 · t f · ' · · ' '' · reason. At the present time pus. However, no action was j~~~~ JOn ° e oan IS se or ~mon has fratermtJes. Frater!ll- Union has a s.et Q£ social rules taken. Dean Pollock warned that ties are and. can be :t 11 effectlhve which, by the very nature of it \would be very stupid of stu- The administration still hopes form of soc~al groupmg At t e times. Buc1,, he fourth •• out ()f ten. Even three to complete the new buildings, · h d · ·. t t' their existence, m.ust be enforced. dents to get something going be- present time ! e a mims ra !On However, Lockw·ood mentioned yond our control and force us to which constitute the largest sin- IS conc~r.ned Wit~ hyo. as~ects of' that he would be willing to sit , call in local police, who, of course, gle building project in the fratermtles - dJscrimmat:on !lnd down with the new president and ~h=a~v~e :::t;;h~e~p~o~\;r-r~el~· :=:t:=o~a;!r~r~e:;:st:;.'~' ======(===r==·o=:n::t:=i n:=u=:e::d:::=o=:n:=::P=a=1l'=e=5=)~==secret contracts. At an mstJtu- a group of interested students midiield Dutchmen • tl1e over- tatesmen's almost at attack lack of w~s with loose up with. the breather the ball goal and help mat· 1 his he scored and . can sco1·e as nst Clark· y with sb: and .Jeff goals goals and to and is ~n wishinf! Tearn a game M:ay they met against in LenoJ('S the only ., .\ Earlier were 3-1, :for Union Nine Sports 10-2 Record for a complete review of the social mles. He emphasized that it would be presumptuous to have a review of the rules with- out the pres-en'<!e of Dr. Martin. I Lorkwoocl sug-gested that fra- : ternities anrl interested parties I on campus prepare reports on the ! gocial rules an<l how they effect 1 fraternity and dormitory living. Representative Body II Dean Lork\\·ood discussed the possibility of forming a Com- ! munity Government, representa- 1 . tive of all interests on campus, students, faculty and administra- l tion. This body would provide a forum for a steady exchange of ideas and opinions among mem- \ bers of the college community. The fact that the faculty has less engagement with the non- academic aspects of campus life than most groups, presents a problem. Delphics Elect Sitton, Add N.ew Members Gary Brown caught in a rundown hi Rochester game Saturday. Greg Olson stands off second base. When Olson raced back to first, the Rochester second baseman threw the ball away and both runnel'S The Delpl1ic Society elected Richard P. Sifton, '66, president at its meeting y-esterday. David Kasper, '66, was named as vice- president, and Morgan Eames is the new secretary. Larry McCray retiring as president. advanced a base. By Eric Singer scoring column. Starting pitch- er Rick Crookes, seeking his seventh straight win, walked Williams took a 4-0 lead, two of the runs unearned, which they were never to relinquish. Last week, the Delphic Society added seven new members to its roster. These seven include: David Braff, Ed Cla1.·k, Bob DeMichele, · David Kasper, AI Nahmias, Barry Newman, and R·ay Pike, Other members for next year who were elected earlier are Richard Siers, Jack Seifert, Rodham Tulloss, Richard Sifton, and Morgan Eames. Valuable Functions though the voter turn-out in this year's election was small, the winners were chosen by a decisive majority. In the Presidential contest, Pike received 454 votes as com- pared to 184 cast in fav{)r of his opponent Richard Si:t:ton. Ratner gathered 338 votes \\·hile Larry Ludwig obtained 251. The tO'tal number of votes cast was slightly less than half of the student body. Commenting upon the poor . turn-out, Pike stated that it was very depressing but, also un- a\·oidable. One of the reasons he proposed to account for the fact that only half of Union's students voted was the large number of students who live off campus. This includes both the cvmmuting students and those who have apartments outside of the college. Another reason put forth was the lack of adequate publicity prior to the election. The fact that . Seniors were notified only lately JEFFREY RATNER that the~· would be ·able to vote in this contest also contributed to the resulting small \·ote. Committees Set Three of next year's four com- mittees have already been set up. The Public Relations Committee will be headed by Richarrl Sifton, Student Operations by Larry Ludwig, and Student Life by Bob Dickman. The Campus and Plant Committee is awaiting the ap- proval of a Chairman to be completed. In discussing plans for next year, Pike sairl that the Campus and Plant Committee would be ahle to present their opinions concerning the rennovation of the North College Dormitory and would offer general suggestions when work is begun on a Student Center. IRC To Sponsor Debates On Vietnant By Matthew Katz ®•------------- The International Rela-tions I R&. h Ad Clu:b will sponsor a repla.Y of a tg tS VOCate sertes of debates on V1etnam. This conference will be taped A J N Saturday and replayed Sunday . fla yzeS egro afternoon at 2:00 p.m. on the lawn in front of Nott Memorial. H•gh L • McGeorge Bundy, President I I er earntng Johnson's Special Assistant for I National Security Affairs, wil1 Dr. Jerome Holland President defend t~e Administration's rec- • of the Hampto 1 1 ' t't t · ord agamst Prof. George M.! . . . 1 ns 1 u e m Kahin of Cornell University. The 1 Hampton, Vu·gm1a, anrl a strong 12-hour program will be refereed supporter of the civil rights by Prof. Ernest N.agel, a logician movement, will discuss \Negro and ~eache~ of ph1losophy at Co- Higher Education\ at · f 1 lumbm Umvers1ty. an m orma Following the 3·hour bout be- ta.lk next Tue~day. The discussion tween the principle speakers, Will be held m the Bale House secondary speakers chosen by Student Lounge at 4:00 P.M. Bundy and Kahn wdll inten·o- and is open to all. O'ate the two men. M:r. Bundy chose Profs. Zbygniew Brzezinski J?r. Holland has written many of Columbia, Wesley Fishel of articles on the employment status Michigan State, Robert Scalapino and residency patterns of the of the University of California, Negro, in addition to works on Berkeley, and a fourth person to· rlesegregation of schools and the be named later. In Mr. Kahin's counseling and guidance of Negro corner will be Profs. Hans J. youth. Morgenthau of Chicago, Stanley Millet of Briarcliff, Mary Wright of Yale, and William A. Williams of Wisconsin. There will also be a preliminary debate between Profs. Morganthau, Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., Harvard histor- ian and former Whi-te House as- sistant, and Isaac Deutscher, a well-known writer on the Soviet Union. Coruell Grad A graduate of Cor11ell Univer- sity, from which he holds both B.S. and M.S. degrees, Dr. Hol- land received a Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Pennsyl- vania in 1950. Before becoming president of the Hampton Insti- tute in 1960, he served as social research consultant for the Pew Memorial Foundation of Phila- delphia. States- scor-ers 5 goals, 1 with 2 Auerbach job in the ,; to his Following their 5-1 victory at the expense of the Yellow- jackets of Rochester on Par- ents' Weekend, the Union Col- lege baseball team, in the midst of one of its finest seasons traveled to Williams College Wednesday, boasting a 10-1 record. In a sloppy game, in which nine errors were com- mitted, the Dutchmen went down to their second defeat of the year, 7-5. After Union had gone <>Ut in their half of the first, Wil- liams immediately -broke inrto the Williams' lead_,off batter, Jim Kramer. Dick Mo•sher was safe on an error by first baseman A1·t Marshall, and immediately stole second. This '\ViaS unneces- sary, however, for Andy Cadot followed with a home run to deep left-center, making the score 3-0. Sheehan, the Ephmen right-fielder was safe on an error by shortstop Brown. He was tripled horne by William- son. The next two men went down with no trouble, but the damage had already been done. The Dutchmen rallied slight- ly, getting a single tally in both the second and third. Mar- shall opened the second with a double to right-center, and was singled home by Crool\es. Things looked promising when Bill Toth drew a walk, his first of four. But Crookes was pick- ed o:ff second, and Cherinko and Erdoes were 1·etired to end this threat. In the next inning, Randy Kuhl opened with a walk (Continued on Page 6) · As members of this honorary . service organization, the Delphics perform such valua-ble functions as handling out convocation cards ru1d sponsoring Parents' Week- end. After the main event, eight seminars will also be conducted on the making of foreign policy. Representing ·the Administration will be Walt W. Ro1stow, Ohail•- man of the Policy Planning Council; William J. Jorden, Dep- uty of Research and Analysis for thes Far East, and Paul M. Kat- tenburg of Mr. Rostow's staff. An ad-hoc organization, the Inter-University Committee for Public Hearing on Vietnam, will (Continued on Page 3} Dr. Holland is also on the Board of Directors and the Exe- cutive Committee of the Experi- ment in Intetnational Living, the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, the World Popula- tion Council, the National Urban League, the United Negro Col· lege Fund, and the National Scholarship Service for Negro Students.

2 Faculty Abroad: Fried Will Teach Clinical Psychology By C·hristopher Fried F OH the first time this fttll, l'nion College is offering a course in Clinical l'::;yclwluMr - a !Jwf~.s,;iun that cuulu hardly have been oaid tu exi:st befure Wurltl War II, that has geown tn'men- dously in importance Lludng t.he pu:.:;t decade, and in which the demand for trained pJ'{)fe·s\ionals is greater by far than the an- ticipated supply. The Clil1k·al I'syehulogist has a unique oppor- tunity to engage in p::;y<.:holherap~·, testing, teaching, or research, to practice in ho::;pilal, dink, university, or priYate office, and even to combine all these acti\'itie>. Ordinarily, the student is not offered a course in Clinical Psychology until he has reached graduate school - often the second yeat· of gt·aduate school - which means both that non-specblists have little opportunity to leariJ about the field, and that potential clinic- ians may never have their interest aroused. Report Union'·s new cou1·se will enable the upper- dassman to learn, hoth as a student and as an From active participant, what the clinical psycho- logist does and how he does it. Finland Two Areas Emphasized The first half of the course will empha- size psychodiagnosis with the aid of projective te·chniques; the second, psychotherttpy. But the two areas are interrelated. Questions of prognosis (the outlook for recovery) and of choice of treatment will in.troduce therapy into the flrst semester, while diagnosis ·will continue into the Eecond. Diagnosis will receive the heavier emphasis, aB told, both because it is more uniquely the clinical psychologist's specialty and because it is something the student CaJI engage in. Any student taking the course will first himself take the TAT, Rorschach, and any other personality tests that may come up for study. This is essential both to meaningful study of what ha·s been written about these tests, and to a symp·athetic under- standing of the subjects to whom one gives them. The student may administer the tests to himself if he so wishes and need not show the results to anyone - what is important is that he have them to refer back tu later, when he has learned more about the tests and is trying to .interpret someone else's results. Theoretical and Practical I shall try closely to integt·ate the theoretical and practical aspects of the cuurtie. 'Tt·uining in test administration and inter- pretation will be accornpanied by study of the controversial re- search that has been done on the tests; study of psychotherapy will be not only through reading, but with tapes of actual therapy sessions (not, I should emphasize, any that I have con- ducted myself), and vrith client-therapist role-play. Students wiU enact the parts of both therapist and patient, followed by a dis- cussion of their perfonnance. Similarly, diagonistic appraisals wHl be presented to the c.Jass US if to a clinic staff meeting Ol' to a court, with students in the role of chief psychiatrist or district attorney inquiring into a11tl challenging the findings. I hope that, in the ~econd term, we shall have reached a point where ::;tuden.ts \\'ill be able, under supervision, to test children in the public schools and perhaps also to as'sist in the diag·nostic progt·ams or SOllH~ uf our hospitals and clinics. This is something I cannot de·finitely promhe as yet, as arrangements would have to be made with the directors of these agencies. It would presuppose not only aehievetnent of considerable skill on the part of the student, but a}so a thorough understanding of the responsibilities involved, particularly the absolutely confidential nature of findings. But the good >York done by my Psych 1 stu- dents in past years as observers, group le·aders, and tutors makes me think of this as a possibility, and it could be a real contribu- tion. to the community. The course will not qualify anyone to practice psychology. I do expect that it will enable students to evaluate realistically the often extravagant claims that are made in favor of, or in r>ppositinn to, psychothrrapy, psychoanalysis, and p·sychological tests. It might be of value not only to the psychology major but to the pre-med, pr!'-law, o1· future teacher who is like·ly to be in professional contact with p•sy,chologists and to use their reports, and also to the history or literature major, who in his own field makes inferences connerting an individual's actions and imagina- tions with his pet•sonality. Work in Finland Concordiensis has a-sked me, in its long-distance interview, whether the work I haYe been doing here in Finland during my sabbatical leave will have any relationship to the new course. I believe it will. In my work in hospitals, clinics, and at Union, my relation- ship'S with the people I see professio,nally have of necessity been limited. I have come to know them in the privacy of the con·sult- ing room, and have related test results mainly to understanding crisis, or evaluating the gains made in the course of counseling. I haven't seen these people in their homes, with their friends, or at work, and any eonclu'Sions about their total personalities and their relations with othet• people ha1·e had to be based on heresay and inference. Here in Finland, my wife and I have lived in two small villages where \\·e came to know eveey member of the com- munity. We ate and go,ssiped, dug potatoes and harvested rye with them, went to <:burch with the old folks and to all-night dances with the teen-agers, joined them on skis at 20 below zero and in the steambath at 240 above. When they took our projective tests, they were merely helping us with our work as we had been helping them with theit·s. Now I have been able to relate test findings to obsenations of e\'ery f.acet of dai1y life, and to relate what the tests show about a man's inner preoc.cupations \\\'i.th ,;im:ilar data on the f~mtasy li.fe of his parents, grandparents, b1·o<thers, sisters, wife, and children. In addition to what I bave + f '¥ T T T' T \f ¥ f T t 'T Y t f ¥' f 'T t i '¥ f f T T i # f f 'T T T ¥ T 'f f f T '+ T T '¥ '¥ f T • DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages I 18 • I 20 JAY STREET 444A.4+4.4.44AA4-44•++.44\4.L.4.L4 6 4A.&A4*Ar4++A4J.\44*'4.+: l The GALLEY 1735 Van Vranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOWN 15c IIAMBURGER HOT DOGS lSc (with meat sauce 19c: FISH FRYS ----------------------20c French Fries _____ - ___ - _- - _______ 12c Thick Shakes ___________________ 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FridayJ May 14,1965 College Entertained by Orchestra, Choir Albany Symphony Presents Mozart, Poulenc Heard Curtis Concerto Debut On Parents' Weekend By Christopher Bell By Steve Granger O N Wednesday May 5, the Memorial Cha.pel was the scene of 1· , a chamber music eoncel•t given by Lloyd Cast, Hugh Allen HIS year's parent's weekend concert was the usual two hours, Wilson, Richard Della Rat! a, and memher\l of the A Jb:my Svm- but the time spent was not a bad. iHVBsimeut; all of Union's phony under the din:,'ction of Edgar CurtiR. Works pr~sentE'd\ in- musit:ul groups put on a goud jJerformarH:e. The Bras's choir, in dudE.'d ThrC'P 0rgan Sonatas ( K. 68, 68, and G9), thC' H.t:~m C'on- pa::;t j'ear::; the weakest part oi the re\'iew, ·rose tu new heights cp 1 ·t,, in 0 b)· ::vlAznrt, Gr·irf by Richard Day, anrl the C'nnrerto thi::; time-both literally and mu:sicaH;-;. Their playing was doubly for Orr;an and String Orr-hP~h·n by Frlgar C'uti~. etfective coming from the balcony. Th..., Woodwind Ensemble, Rirh:lrr:l Day is a !oral compnf'er liYing in ~nratoga. His t:nioH-Skhlmute On:hL::;tru, and the Glee Club also performed work, Gri('f, is the middle movement of a three movement work better than was expeded. for string orrhe;:tra and, ac-conl,ing to the program was writtE.'n Precarious but Harmonious in mPnwry of PrC'~ident 1\ennNiy. ThC' work roulcl bE.'st be de- ·srribPd as a snl.iJoquy for ~tJ'i.ng~, one which was intPrC'sting and ··Bette!· than eXJ}ected.'' is<.\ stt·ange phrase, and here it means moving as long ns it held one's ntt('n.tion, but tM~ it r'0Hld not that the sound wa,s hat·nwniuul:!. The union-Skidmore Orchestra do mo~t of the timr. Tht' 1nusiral r~ason f'or its lark ·of interest is a precarious affair always, having only one rehearsal a week. lies in the fact that thE\ entire work is on a single mus.ic-al~emo• under two conductors, riddled with ahl:lences, and playing to tiona! plane. Perhaps if the c·omposer had added another tlu•me ·s.parse audiences. But last week eve'l'yone was present (even or counter-theme to the movement this lack of variety could the audience), the orchestra's usually weak stl'ing section was have been overcome; yet, there wE'rP Rpots of sheet· poetry. bolstered by so·me of the Albany Symphony p·layers, and the The second eontemporary wm·k offered in the program should Concerto for Horn, #l in D major, by W. Mozart, represented have been of particular interest to the college Cflmmunity since the best efforts of the Orchestra. Robert Hoffman's perfermance it was written by Edgar Cm·tis, Professor of Music at Union. upon the French Hom was disappointing ovel'aH, especially The Organ Concerto, unlike the Day work, was extremely com- since parts of his playing evidenced briJl.iance that probably plicated, its c·omplexity being born of the use of familiar ideas could be sustained on better days. and materials in unfamiliae ways. The :fkst nwYement set down the ideas which were to dominate the concerto. It started off Monumental Effort wi~h a tune in which constantly shifting meter was employed. The vocal half of the concert was a meeting between the Th1s tune soon faded away and a fugue took over the musical Elmira College Glee Club and the Union College Glee Club. Both scene only to be followed b:y yet a third section written in such units first sang separately and then joined together and with the a remote tonal and rhythmic idiom that it seemed quite out of Albany Symphony Orchestra for the climax of the evening: place. Gloria, a symphony in six movements, by .B'rancis Poulenc. This The second movement >Yas highly imitative in ·style. An al- was the only contemporary work on the program, and was, as lusi?n was ~rst made to the opening theme of the first movement the number of movements and participants involved indicates, • agamst whtch was placed a sync0pated scale motive. This feel- a monumental effort. · ing of syncopation and imitation was picked up by the organ But the symphony was also the unfortunate illustrater of the· which then expanded the ideas into a cadenza written in the form power of l'nion's best musical product, the Glee Club. For .al- · of a caiJon, bringing the pie·ce to the third movement. though E.Jmira gave an ac·curate and adequate rendition of the ' \ The third movement was the summation of aU the ideas songs comprising their sole effort, when brought togeiher with which appeared in the other two movements. With all this famil- the men's Glee Club the female voices did no·t balance with the iar material one ·would think the movement should have been male voices, and the symphony suffered fpom the combination. quite 'easy' to listen to-but it was not. The tonal idiom is so But on the whole, again, what was he·ard was \better than ex- unique, that one never quite gets used to it. Just when one has pected.\ ... the evening proved that at least one part of the ~=========(=C~o~n~tt~·n~u=e~d~on~P:..a~g~e~3~)~===========C~o~l~le~g==e===can~~operate with cacophony. By Larry Briskman Xorth College Social Rooms - Even a Puritan finds it a joke. B EFORE diving headlong in.to an article on social rules ut other colleges and univet·sities I should like to state the in- tent of this pie·ce. I will simply report on conditions at other sch[)ols; I will allow my re-ader to draw any conclus.ion which he feels is warranted. My put-po\Se in writing this a1ticle is to foster discussion on campus about our present sorial rules. The only way that this d.iscussion can be made an intelligent one is if the participants in it are infol\Jlled of the social rules elsewhere. Friends of Union The social rules at Hob.m-t College in Geneva, New York are very similar to those at Union. Women are not permitted in the dormitories outside of the lounges. In addition, the posse·s- sion or use of alcohoJ.ic beverages is not permitted either in the dorms or on college property. These same rules apply to off- campus residents but one wonders how effectively they can be applied in such cases. The situation is similar at Bowdoin Col- thus learned about the specific cultures of a West and an East Finnish community, I have learned S()lnething, more generally, about personality dynamics and their reflections in projective tests. This I look forward to sharing with the students in my new course. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE ITAliAN FOODS, STeAKS, CHOPS, SeAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 [)ays A Week HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 , TRf.VEL- CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL • CHARTER BUS _, lege in .Maine. The main diiTerence between the rules at Union and tho::;e at Bowdoin is that in Bowdoin\s fraternity houses W()men guests are allowJ in appropriate rooms upstairs until 5 p.m. on Fridays and 6 p.m. on Saturdays. Otherwise, Bowdoin's soda! policy is very similar to Union's. Liberalism on Campuses In regard to those colleges which have more liberal social policies than 'C'nion's, we find that there tends to be a high cor- relation between the existence of an honor code and the existence of a lenient social policy. At Havel'ford College, a student may entertain women guests in the dormitorie·s between 9 a.m. and 2 a.m. on Sunda.y through Thursday, and between 9 a.m. and a::30 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. According to the Haverford honor system, only acts of sexual intercourse a1·e to be consid- ered violations of college policy. At Wesleyan University women guests are allowed in the dormitories and in the fraternity houses on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings. Women are allowed to be in the rooms in both fraternity houses and in upperelass dorms until 1 a.m. on Friday nights and 2 a.m. on Saturday nights. In the freshman dorms the visiting privileges end one hom· eal'lier on each eve- ning. Wesleyan, like Haverfo1·d, is govemed by an honor code and system. At Williams College in Williamstown, Mass, women are allowed in the fratemity houses and in the residential houses until 1 a.m. on Friday evenings and 2 a.m. on Saturday evenino-s. In the other col1e~e hou~ing fnrilities, womPn are allowed in the rooms until12 midnight on Saturday evenings and until 6:30p.m. on all other nights. The purpose of this policy, according to the Williams catalo.gue, is to \permit reasonable privacy in the en- tertainment of guests. Similarly, women guests are allowed in the'houses and dorms at Harvard, Princeton, Amhet·st, Trinity, Brandeis, Tufts, Yale, Swarthmore. Oberlin, Bard, Antiorh, Columhia, Brown, and many other excellent ·schools of fine reputation. In fact, at many of the better giels schools, such as Sarah Lawrence, Bennington, Vas- sar, and others, men are allowed in the rooms at specified times. Good News To those students at Union who have been fighting for more libe1·a! social rules in recent years, there was good news from Dean Lockwood recently. At a meeting of the IFC on Tues- day night, the Dean promised that the present :;ocial rules would be discussed with an eye toward liberalization when President Martin arrived on campus. The Dean said that Dr. Martin and himself would sit down with .a group of responsible students to discuss the social situation on campus. This news muust be of tremendous satisf.actjon to all students who have philosophically fought against 'C'nion's present conservatism in regard to social rules. EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE Amazing new liquid plastic coating used on all types of sur- faces interior or exterior. Eliminates waxing when applied on Asphalt Tile, Vinyl, Linoleum, Vinyl Asbestos, Hard Wood, and Furniture. Completely eliminates painting when applied to Wood, Metal, or Concrete surfaces. This finish is also recom- mended for boats and automobiles. NO COMPETITION As these are exclusive formulas in demand by all businesses, industry and homes. No franchise fee. Minimum investment- $300. Maximum investment--$7,000. Investment is secured by inventory. Factory trained personnel will help set up your business. For complete details and descriptive literature write: CHEM .. PLASTICS & PAINT CORP. 1 8'28 Locust St. Louis 3, Mo. Friday, Ma This paE novelist, sh a convocali nar cunducl ·ing class. .1. in the writ in fot·m in l think it v the highligl Mr. We first sectior that his we in his :fietio what litel'a Truth of tel found as rE through thE the politiciD the siiJcere read and· 1 politicians. Flauber1 in tl\ica tely not sh:a1·ed I painting th novelist mt Wescott w: works is tl (consisting portraits) 2 is not p:ron nor non-fict has hi's Re1 his New 'Y trend awa:,; .one. In 1'1 strength ·of the shorter Like ma writing too poetry may ist poetry into action tinuity of < is indebted to turn aw that some not accurat piece and b the prose I demand fo1 dictrine ( \' have infiueJ actel'ized b does not r Sherwood . simplicity comment t' way and J: unnecessar: because of theory, bu ' simply aftE ness of e:q being quite romments hand-in-hal the artist ~ an emphic: not a seer the univen world of se level. Aside fr• russion of Cur1 (Con tin grasp of a pears in guise. As gressed, t and more realized th: 1·eally mm n~elody. Mu: The com ing for it; meter, rnu: just being tury. This has added · ment of c seemed on Perhaps it metm· whic work seem is the fac asked to \1 from new work this which case must ex:ter ways a pai rase, ·the ( full of mall compaet ill musically AU the I by .the 11 praise is Wilson (tc dedicated) impassione certo. ~ PH AI 509- Sd L ... :

hours, Union's in heights doubly t means a week. to (even was the the Both Nith the ThiS was, as • of the For al- · of the' with the ex- of the Union houses rs until social cor- xistence may and and consid- in the in a.m. on eve- code are houses venings. d in the p.m. to the the en- d dorms Yale, man:v of the Vas- times. more from Tues- would and to be of social of sur- plied on Wood, recom- sinesses, secured up your '• Friday, May 14, 1965 Mind's Eye: Wescott,A Modern Novelist By Paul .Sherwin This past Tuesday, Glenway Wescott, renoVI'l1ed 'n-iting, and hi.s ex.periences as a writer, his ub-J novelist, short fiction writer and critic, addressed ::;enutions concerning other writers, particularly 1 u. convocation and wa:s the focal point of a semi- 0!' the expatriate group, were mose enlightening.· nar conducted in Professor Gada's creative writ- He; went on to neg~te aU the critic::; who hl;lYe: ,jug .class. Although the session with Mr. Wescott saul that the expt~tl'Ja.tes were .m~;e,Iy attemptm~ 1 in the writing class was taped and will appear lo ge~ away from the responslbil~;tJes of Amen-, in form In the first Idol of the next !:JChool year, ran life, men who had e:;;caped mto a fantasy 1 think it would be valuable to teuch on some of world. He feels that the main rea:;on for the I the highlights of that discu·ssion. movement was that it was much cheaper to live Mr. Wescott repud-iated his statment in the in Europe at that time because of the exchange firi!t section (or \essay\) of Good-Bye Wisconsin policy. In fact, most C>f the Americans ·of that that his words, his padicular portrayal of reality group were not m;en who had abandoned. their in his :fiction, is of no use. He now envisions that native land, but, rather, who were (even Pound) what lite1·ature can and must do is to offer a actively concerned with the future of America. . Truth of telling and hearing - a ldnd of truth not I found as readily in other means of expression m· Since Mr. Wescott discussed so many writers through the various organs of society. It is not whom he has known and read, I can cite just a the politicians who are the truth-tellers, but rather few of his observation,s. the sincere writers. And once these writers are read and· understood, one can go back to the Wescott has great respect for SaEnger as an politicians. a-rtist, but feels that he is leading up a blind alley. On the Novel Wescott is of the opinion that Salinger has an Haubert's view that the novel should be an idea in the back of his mind o.f combining his l · 1 t t stories about the Glass family into a novel, but intricate Y worked out, mmute· Y woven apes ry, cann•ot see how this wiH be realized •vith much not shared by Mr. Wescott. He can not see Seurat effectiveness. painting the ceiHng o.f the Sistine Chapel. The novelist must operate with broad strokes. What Although Wescott has never greatly enjoyed Wescott was to turn to in the majority of his the works of Faulkner, he does see his particular works is the rather loosely held together novel genius as a novelist. He feels that Faulkner's (consisting of a series of smaller episodes and society, that of the stagnant South, readily lends portraits) and the novelette. The American public itself to the kind of work he has done. is not prone to reading the long works of fiction, nor non-fictjon for that matter. The ordinary man The Iutemational Set has hi's Reader's Digest and the sophisticate has his N e1v Yorker. In recent yeal'S, this general Bernard Mala.mud has said that in the fifties trend away from the novel has been a marked and sixties there has emerged a new school of , 0 ne. In M1•. Wescott's opinion the particular Jewish writers - Bellow, Wallant, Philip Roth, strength .of American writers is and has been in Salinger. But Mr. Wescott does not agree that all the shorter forms. men are \Jews\ in our civilization. He is against Like many other prose fiction writers, his fitst all sorts of \Gennan\ genera-lizations. Perhaps writing took the form of poetry. Wescott's early the grea-test writer writing today, according to poetry may be chm:acterize~ as Imagist)c. Imag- Mr. We~cott, is Gemge Simonet, a French writer ist poetry starts w1th the 1dea of puttmg words who works mostly with mystery stories. His into action while abandoning time and plot con- fondness for Maupassant would seem to indicate tinuity of ordinary verse. Wescott's early poetry a link here. Despite Simonet's lack of intellectual is indebted to \H. 0.\ and Pound. Though he was qualifications, he is ·superb in the narrative forms. to tul'n away from thi's form because he found that some time after w.riting a poem he could Mr. Wescott also discussed Dos Passes, Updike, not accurately recall the impetus that birth'd the Maugham, Gertmde Srtl'in, the Fitzgeralds, Wilder, piece and because the form was so different from Lawrence, MacLe.ish, Algren, the New Yorker and the prose that he was leading to, the Imagist's many other literary subjects. Mr. Weseott is a demand for a precise rendering of \things\ and modest man wh() has never quite felt his talent dictrine (\Go in fear of abstractions\) seem to himself; yet, it i's quite evident in such works as have influenced Wescott. Wescott's prose is char- The Grandmothers ,Good-Bye Wisconsin, The Pil- acterized by precision and simplicity, though he grim Hawk, The Apple of the Eye, and Apartment does not have the ear for local dialects of a in Athens. It is hoped that Mr. Tullo•ss and staff Sherwoou Anderson. Concerning this matter of will do an excellent job in editing this session for simplicity and lack of ornamentat:.:io=n~:~W~es~c;;;o:=tt;';s==t=h=e=n=ex=t=I=d=o=l.=============== comment that men like Heming- - ----- way and himself shaved off the unnecessary in their prC>se not because of some larger aesthetic theory, but because they were College and Schenectady Refuse To Help Students ·, simply after a greater effective- ness of expression, struck me as being quite interesting. Wescott's comments on words as tools go hand-in-hand with his concept of By Steve Granger the artist as a teller of truth's in Until the new living facilities are thrown up, some students are an emnhical sense. The writer is· finding that it is possible to \prepare to live in the world\ by actually .. h t · f living in the world, and not by scurrying back and forth between not a seer into t e mys enes 0 cubicle and classroom, oblivious to the life that com. ·es immediately the Ulliverse, .but a seer of the world of sensation on the physical after graduation. level. Living off campus and living on campUJS can be compared in Aside from Mr; Wescott'·s dis- their variC>us aspects. \Living off\ uswally means a private room russion of his own theories of and bath instead of a half-room and bath down the hall. Financially, the $80 a month two students pay to rent one room in Richmond (or Curtis Debut (Continued from Page 2) grasp of an idea it. suddenly aJ?- pears in a startlmg rhythmic guise. As the movement pro- gressed, themes become more and more disjointed w1til one realized that this movement was really more about meter than n~elody. ··, :Musically Compact The concerto is most interest- ing for its use of rhytlun and meter. musical areas which are just being explored in this cen- tury. This rhythmic exploration has added to the concerto an ele- ment of one-sideness-or so it seemed on the first two hearings. Perhaps it is the subtle use of mete1· which somehow makes the work seem nal'l'ow or perhaps it is the fact that one is always asked to \look\ at familiar ideas from new angles which gave the work this peculiar qu:;lity in which case we, as the hsteners, must extend ourselves more (al- ways a painful prospect). I~ ~ny case ·the Concerto was excitmg, full 'of many wonderfu} ideas, and compact in that nothmg seemed musically extraneous. All the pieces were well play~d by .the musicians but spec1al praise is due Professor Hu~h Wilson (to whom the work IS dedicated) for his sincere aud impassioned playing of the Con- certo. .. ., .. ,,,,,,,,, ......... . WALKER'S PHARMACY, INC. N. J, Comcmzo-H. L. Walker 509-S 11 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. r FR 4-7709 t .................... .. almost anywhere else on campus) is more than enough for a two bedroom apartment close to the college. But the main savings is in food; food cooked at home generally costs one half to one-third the price of the same food anywhere else. Living off campus represents a savings of $300-$500 per year for each 'student. But this savings means work and l'esponsibility. The student cleans, the student cooks, the student washes, or entropy as'sumes urgent meaning - meaning that dirt, grease, and the odor of un- washed socks and stale garbage tends to spread randomly through- out the house. Fighting this disease means tea.mwo1·k, and that means the choice l)f a roommate becomes rnuch more important. Because of the peculioar combinatiC>n of dependence upon another and fledgling independence (inexperienc·e), there i·s fe1-ti!e substance for what could almost be a situation comedy. In other words, anything can h·ap-pen. Print :Shop ... Last September· three students book up in a six room ap·art- ment at a phenomenally low rent, low because they worked to con- vei't it from an industrial printing •shop to a livable residence. The a,greement was that the students would. pay the rent by laying out money for materials, getting rent receir>ts in exchange. In this way, the whole scholastic year's rent was paid, and everyone was settled for the year. And things went, m<H'e or less smoothly, on ..•. .. Until the heat went off, right at the beginning of the second semester. The landlord's furnace broke down utterly, after dying all ALVORD'S SHELL STATION 187 Nott Terrace BRAKES TUNE UP MUFFLERS WHEEL BALANCE Dl 6-9847 Down to Louis', let t.ts go 1 Let the lager freely Ynw. L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS - l'ROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 3 Fe»reign. Policy: D .. omtntcan Policy ~'ails By tAlon .Jeffrey As Thomas Mann, past Under- secretary of State for La~in , ,,,.:),!nt Arnerican Affairs, stated, ''tts (the U.S.) actions arc for the pur.pusc of helping to. preserve for the people of their . nation theil' right to choose then· own government free of outside inter- ference.\ It would seem that there arc so many outright con- tradictions and untruths in this statemen-t that Mann might not even be capable of utilizing the English language correctly. It would also seem that the \right to choose their own government\ means not only which government but by whatever method they choose. It would also appear that \free from outside interference\ means exactly that. It does not mean \except U.S. .interference.\ Somehow this phrase appeared in An American soldier in l.lle l)()minican Republic helps protect their Mann's interview to justify \out- right to life, liiJertr~ and pursuit of happiness. side\ communist intervention:-an United States policy in tbe Dominican Repub- lic is based ·on two foundations: the \right\ of a nation to protect it's natio:nals when a foreign country in which they are re·siding cannot; and the \Johnson Doctrine\ - H.1at the United States will not tole1•ate the establishment of a commun- ist regime in Latin Amerie:a. Principles Justify Actions Both these \principles\ l!ave been utilized to justify American intel'Ven!i(Jn in the Dominican Republic. Neither of these cm1 be used to jus.tify sending Marines into anoth.er nation when they were not invited. International law - wl1a.tever tha:t may be - provides that U. S. action. tu defend its nationals wa:> right. It is my contention that however legi- timate that concept may have been in the past, it is today outmoded. Late last year I defended the action of the British, Belgian and American governments in rescuing wl1ites held hostage in the Congo. This case was completely different from the situation in the >Dominican Republic in that the whites were being attacked per se in the Congo but Americans were not being attacked per se in the Dominican Republic. Most impor- tantly, though, the doctrin.eof protecting nationals in other nations must be considered in the light of the modern-day political clin1ate. That climate with respect to Latin A1nerica involves no.t only a tremendous nationalistic feeling but also a United States pledge ( utl.deor· the Charter of the OAS) never to intervene .• Even if we grant that perhaps the U.S. shouldn't have intervene<] to pmtect American lives, there are those who contend that it -was necessary for us to intervene :because some 50-odd Dominican communists migl:tt have gained control of the revolution. The J.ate President Kennedy often stated that American foreign policy aimed at maki·ng the world safe fo:r diversity-President Johnson has added the qu.alifying phrase, as long as it's not a communist government in Latin America (except for Cuha). intervention which has yet to be pro·ved. E1ther the U.S. government has not released all the information it has regard·ing the extent of out- side c0mmunist control or there was none, for the evidence thus fa-r released does not point to outside c0ntrol. In fact, Mann noted that \avail- able infoTmation\ only \suggested\ that the revo- lution had fallen into the hands of the com- munists, much less communists controlled by some outside force. American Loss of Prestige Even if one grants the necessity ami/or recti- tude of intervening on either of the two bases utilized by .the U. S. Government (which I do not), one must still balance the expenditures made utilizing this policy against the expendi- tmes of another policy with respect to the goals they might hope to .achieve. The expense, in te1·ms of U. S. prestige and (of utmost impor- tance) U. S. ability to influence nations to follow its lead, of the Dominican intervention is utterly out of proportion to the goals it sought to ac- complish. The act of intervention has shown that the U. S. is incapable of standing by its pledge and, in the word:; of Senator Morse, \cannot be counted on when the chip's are down.\ The per- sons who claim that l'. S. withdrawal from Viet- nam would prove that the U. S. pledge to defend a nation would then become worthless are the same ones who are soundly applauding Johnson's actions in the Dominican Republic. Moreover, in- tervention to prevent the possible establishment of a communist government is nothing less than an outright refutation of the U. S. claim that it seeks not to impose any gover·nmental system on others but that it seeks only peace and stability. \Bully bully and up the hill,\ cried Colonel Johnson. through February. H. was a Jll'Ob-' laws regarding heat had no pro- I L R C lem. We had paid for tlt-e \Vh..ole' vision for enforcement, and all • • • year, and, further, we had set- the Board of Environment Health tied into the routine of the ~eeond could do was issue warning to semester, so moving was costly the landlord. But by this time and troublesome. .We settl-ed on the bitterest pa1t of winter was a temporary .solution-sealing up over, and the temperature in the all windows and bringing in_ elec- apantment was almost up to tric space heaters-but as ihe sixty. Things were looldng up. temperature reached do11T11 to Soon it would be spring, the win- touch zero outside the lll~k:eshift dows could be uncorked, tempera- heating system struggled ([) j,eep' ture would become normal', and the inside temperature ab()ve so would we, we hoped. But a • • • forty degrees. week Iate1· the hot water went Our habits were abandor1ed in cold; the landlord had not been an effort to keep warm. We called paying his gas bill for some time, on the College, and Dean ]>.QJI ock md the company finally cut off said he could not help through the supply. Later we found that the college, but suggested try-ing the bank that holds the mortgage I the Health Department. Do-wn to is planning to foreclose on the City Hall, where the Healt:h ])e- house, so it is doubtful whether partment said try the J31lild ing anything will be turned on, or Inspector, and the Buildin.g In- whether considering other factors spector told us to try th€ :Boar<l in the landlord's financial posi\ .of Environmental He·al1;l1,. an<l tion, there is much chance to l'e- the Board of Envirt>nooental cover any money. But there is a Health asked us if we h:ad ·tried bright side to the whole matter: the Building Inspector ... .and its mostly over with. We learned it was almost funny ... F'inally bow things can be. we learned that Schenee-tady's _._ .. (Continued from Page 1) sponsor the national teach-in. They are presenting the teach-ins as an answer to the Administra- tion's effort to \manipulate a consensus on Vietnam without proper public or congressional debate.\ DIAMANTE'S :njoy Our Fine Home Cookec Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate o.n Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. 'DRIVE - IN CHOW ·UP SNACKS TO DINNERS DAILY TO MIDNIGHT AT SCOTIA BRIDGE

4 Qlonrnr Published Fridays dUl'lng the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising ~;~ervice, Inc .. College Publ!shors Representative. •20 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Off!M, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered In the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 15c ·a copy: $3 a :vear dellve•·ed anyWhere in the Vnited States. SE::>;IOR BOARD BARRY :NEWMAN '67. . .... 377·9884 ................................ Editor-in-Chief JEFFREY SPEC'l'OH '66 .. 377-9884 ......................... Business MunaG\er RICHARD SIFTON '66.. . . ...... 346·U730 ......................... Managing Editor MARK KASOWI'l'Z '67.. ......... .. .............................. News Editor ROBERT STOLZBERG '67. .. .... .. .......................... Feature Editm· ANDY COLR '6 7 ......................................................................................... Sports Editor PAUL SHERWIN '67 ............................................................................... Literary Editor ARNOLD KATZ '66 ... . ......... .. ........ .. .............. Consulting Editor MATTHEW l{A'rZ '67. . ........................................ Page Editor HENRY FERGUS0:--1 ':00 ................................... Faculty Advisor JL:\IIlR RO,\RD Alon Jeffrey '65 ................................................................................ Contributing Editor I..aurt>m·~ Bri:donun ,6'; A~Ristant Featurf>s Editor Donald Schwartz '67.. .. ...... Assistant Literary Editor Robert Rosenthal '67................. .... . ......................... Subscription ::Manager Joseph ~bacter '6<. . .... :--:ational Advertising Manager Steven Arkoff '67....... . ......... Cireulation Manager William LieLowit< '~7.. .. ... PbotoG\rapher :Nat Stevens '68..... . ........................ Sports PhotoG\rapher Mother's Day The Second Annual Spring Mother's Day Riot at Union College was an abortive failure for many reasons. First of all, it wasn't big enough to hit the HERALD TRI- BUNE, as last year's better organized outburst did. We lost some sorely needed publicity as a result, and many of us fell left out of the GREAT STUDENT REVOLT of 1965. The misdirected ranting of the students, here, in addi- tion, did not produce the same effect as the Harlem rock throwing of last summer since nobody was moved to feel sorry for the oppresive conditions of packed dorms on a stifling night. The agitation \Vill not spread to other blight- ed campuses, and nobody will even bother to accuse the communists of infiltrating our muggy minds. The biggest mistake of last Sunday was the absence of a cause. There wasn't one placard raised during the entire evening - a la Berkely or otherwise. This was a disappointment. In a highly intellectual community like this we could have advocated the restoration of constitu- tional anarchy in the Dominican Republic, or decried the Albany debacle, or strung up Ho Chi Minh in effigy. But no, the best Union College students could do was march up and d o w n , throw fire-crackers, blow horns, make noise, and get punished in various ways on the fol- lowing day. If this is the only kind of demonstration we know how to have, there is no sense in demonstrating at all. Noise and destruction can never accomplish anything, and can make a few unlucky people very unhappy. Try to remember that Lenox Road runs past this campus, not Lenox Avenue. Scientific Method The momentum of tradition in aged institutions is generally regarded as a strangely conservative force. The image of the eternally ivy covered walls, the studiously dull academicians and stern administration is one frequently related to the nation's most respected and influential uni- versities. But no college could ever retain the respect and leadership it has achieved if it loses the courage to take what may appear to be radical steps in the interest of ad- vancing education. Revolutionizing programs and refreshing attitudes are directing the policy at many of our \venerable\ schools. Princeton University went ahead last week with a modified plan for eliminating grades in certain .courses. They did not haggle over the change for eighteen years - they simply did it. If the program fails, it will be forgotten. If it succeeds it will be hailed throughout the country. The first stirrings of a new and vital outlook were ob- served at Union this year as well. The curriculum reVision will not make or break this school - it is an exciting ex- periment and a welcome alternative to cowaring timidly away from different ideas. The discussion which it pro- voked was extremely healthy and should contribute to a concerted attack on this school's most basic problems. With the coming, next fall, of Harold C. Martin, we hope the experimentation will continue. There is no argu- ment against actively trying new methods, such as elimina- tion of grades, to determine, without question, if they are beneficial. This is better than guessing, bickering, and do- ing absolutely nothing. A Good Word The Idol published this week is an accomplishment. Its size alone is a good indication of the growing number of students who not only want to express themselves, but are capable of expressing themselves well. Such a group, whe- ther they be engineers or students demonstrate that they are willing to utliize their mental machinery both in and out of the classroom, faculty members might be moved to associate with students in and out of the classroom. This is one of the major goals of a school like Unioo., and Rodham Tulloss along with his staff deserves our appreciation for his efforts in drawing us nearer to it. Union~sStrength Lies in Faeult_y By Prof. Joseph Finlo~lstein The substance of a college is its intellec- tual environment; the essence of that en- vironment is its faculty. Neither in cal- endars, curricula nor any other mechanism, though these are all important, can one discover the significance of a collegiate body of teachers. The line is drawn rathet· in the most subtle imprecise involvements which distinguish those institutions in which faculty are important and play im- portant roles as against those colleges and universities where faculty are unimportant and have little impact on the governance, operation, and clima.te of the institution. The wider the perimeters of faculty aeti<m, the more complicated, more volatile, but stronger and more creative the institution. An old college such as Union has auto- ma-tically a deep sense of its historic past. This narmtive is very much a pa1t of the image of the college in all its operations; it is a significant factor in the posture of the faculty. Our past serves both as a powerful thrust towards innovation and as a re- straining force against .superficial change. At Union the faculty share a rich identification with the college's aspirations, a deep involvement in , academic decision mak- . · · · · ing, and overall a per- sonal commitment to the nature of the insti- tution. Many of the faculty spend almost their entire teaching careers at Union. In- dividuals make this choice for varied rea- sons. Although almost all have research in- terests, primarily they are teachers and ptefer an institution where teaching is highly regarded. Most of them are strong persona.iHties., so strongly i'Ildividualistic that they are happier at an institution where as individual faculty members they can play a substantial role. Their choice of Union as their life's work is a deliberate choice and a conscious rejection of other types of educational institutions, in particu- lar the large university. These deep-sPated feelings givE.' the college some of its out- standing and richest characteristics. Years of joint J?at·ticipation among faculty mem- bers sets the tone. Teaching Primary-Not Exclusive If the -teaching of students is the pri- mary function of our faculty, it is by no means the only one. All sectors interlock. The size of enrollment determines faculty- student ratios. The type and quality {)f un- dergraduates detet·mines the richness of in- struction. The intellectual \'igo1' and in- dependence of students molds honors work. The health and posture of the fraternities widens o1· nal'l'O\\\'S the intellectual environ- ment. The condition of the physical plant encourages intellectual contact. The size and quality of the library dictates student inquisitiveness. This faculty, then cannot and does not leave the campus at 5:00 P.M. The trustees and administration are legally responsible for the college, nevertheless, there is a broad over-lapping area where faculty participation is acknowldged and welcomed. Academic freedom, intellectual independence, classroom sovereignty, and unquestioned authority over course stand- ards and grades are assumed as a matter of course. Beyond this, there is at Union Yery little feeling of academic hierarchy. A new instructor is very much made to feel that professionally he is the equal of any othet• man within the faculty. His own pro- fessional competence will be the measure by which he will be judged. Ability and dis- tinction ultimately determine a teacher's career at Union. Creative Future It seemed to me important to repeat some of these generalizations at the end of a long and difficult year in which the effort at self-criticism and self-investiga- tion may well make us lose sight of the many strengths which we already possess. Nor do I say these things out of a sense of pessimism. We are, if I 1·ead the aus- pices col'l'ectly, about to emba-rk on a more vigorous and creative period in our history. We have at hand a great reservoh of abil- ity which can play a leading role in the shaping of this future. Union College is admirably equipped to meet some educa- tional needs far better than other institu- ti{)ns. Moreover we have never lacked for gifted and motivated students. At no time have we had, both professionally and in teaching awareness, •a stronger faculty. Within a decade if we marshalled all our strengths, we could become a great in- stitution. Whe1·e we stand 10 years from now, will depend as much on your individual commitment as on mine. THIS ISSUE MARKS THE END OF CONCORDY'S NINETY- FOURTH FIASCO. WE WILL RETURN TO START THE NINETY -FIFTH IN SEPTEM- BER. YOU'LL HAVE TO READ SOME OTHER PAPER DURING THE NEXT THREE MONTHS, BUT WE HOPE YOU ENJOY THE SUMMER ANYWAY. Friday, May 14,1965 I ==~~~=..l!Q!.::.!!:~~&&~.!RX::t:--.!ni...i!X _I R• T l'.oR . ~OM E.. COM~QN Sf/'I$E? Letters to the Editor lauds Comp-Ed. To the Editor: It is both upsetting and disappointing to see that those students who have achieved the highest academic success at Union abandoned critical, mature, thinking and succumubed to signing a distorted, un- fair Phi Beta :Kappa petition condeming the recently passed preceptorial provision of comprehensive educ·ation. As the lone dissenter among this ostensibly academic- ally-sophisticated group, I am most dis- turbed by the :fact that the petition throughly misintet'Pl'eted what preceptor ed- ucation is all about. In their first cr<itici'sm, the signers state that \we do not ·want to be taught (my em- phasis) by people outside their O\Vll ama of competence!' 1f the prece,ptor system is instrtuted as planned, the new Phi Bets need not worry. Faculty members who vol- unteer for Comp. :Ed. courses a1·e not sup- posted to teach in the m'thdox sense. The biologist who is courageous enough to leave the security of his Phd. and academic train- ing by teaching a Gomp. Ed. coUI'Jse is not expected to give a formal, sterile lecture on Crime and Punishment. Instead, his job as \prece·ptor as distinct from merely in- structor, is tu trr tu ::;~imulate direct stu- lltmt p<.uticipation in the t·ducatiun prr)cc>ss anld encourage l~a.l\llillg l.Jy CX.lJL'I\iL'Ill:dlg\. Freslt and Uniqu~ The new Phi Bets end their letter with the warning tha,t if 1-'reeeptural C<>mprehen- sive Education had been in elfect four years ago they \would have ht;:;tlatet.l t\ apply to Union.\ This st:;tement, Uip;trt f1·-um b~ing dishonest, ignm·es the potential benefit of Comp. Ed. to Union. L'nion des-pparately needs such a fre-sh., unique, exciting program to distinguish itself, and thus avoid being swallowed up on the academic marketplace. The new Phi Bets should not alone be blamed for their impulsive act. It was the result of a long, subtle, brainwashing process. It is Vel'y difficult to conceptualize the meaning of \preceptor\ when one has been attending school::; and classes for ovet· fifteen years in which the primary role of the teacher has been that of omnicient oracle who one merely listens ... and learns from. Since-rely, Martin V. Cohen '65 Phi Bota Kappa '65 Concordy in a Pickle To the Editor: Ever since Lany (:\l:u·shmallow} Horo- witz took over the Concordy, I have been dismayed. by the editorial cowardice an<! general dullness of the paper. When Mr. Newman took over as the retiring editor's choice I expected more of the same. I have been half surpeised. The editol'ial in the April 23rd issue entitled Rights 011 Campus said something that needed to be said for a long time. When a supposedly 'liberal' small men's college taking many stu<lents from New York and New Jersey is about one-half of one percent Negro and when this college's admission policies include a \geographical distribution\ apparently aimed at limiting the number {lf Brooklyn accents, there are certainly indications of prejudice. Campus FRIDAY, l\IAY 14, 1965 The Concordy was returning to its once respected state in mentioning this. How- ever, the other point of newspaper quality is still lacking.. The Prom issue of the Concordy was pretty flat, especially when compared with issues of previous years. As the Herald Tribune might ask: \Does a co. lege newspaper have to be dull?\ Respectfully, Richard Heyman '66 Crass Stupidity To the Editor: Tuesday night the Union College Brass Choir and Woodwind Quintet, and the Union-Skidmore Orchestra presented a two hour concert, under the direction of Profe~>­ sor Curtis of Union and Professor Carver of Skidmore. Eight people were present when the Brass Choir opened the program; by the end of the concert, the audienc had grown to the staggering total of fourteen. At least one was a Union College student. Funny is not the word which appropriately describes the event. Disgraceful is. Apathy has been the subject of many euitoriab in Concord)· over the years. Per- hap\ apathy j,; respunsihlt• for thP dearth ot' cultural event,; at L'nion. However, apathy is nut primarily responsible for the appa-lling turnout at the concert on Tuesday. Thts year's turnout, the poorest in three years, was no surprise. ln the past, the (oncordy oc,·as;onaoly featm·ed articles about the Vnion music:-~! gToups; less fre- quently it E.'Yen carried news releases or calendar notices of forthcoming concerts. This year Concordy has <\ompletely neglect- ed l:nion',; musical groups, and has heen remiss in its nbligation to both the sturlent body and the mu,.;ic dl'Jlartmenl. But Concordy is not the only culprit, al- tbough it bears the res!Jonsi bility for get- ting the news and reporting it. (Concordy statf mem hers would have one believe that messengers should bring the news to Con· cordy). Those involved with scheduling Union concerts haYe blundered every year by ~etting inconvenient concert dates. Last semester there were three concrts during reading week; this semeilter the concert fol- lowed on the heels of the Parents' Weekend Concert during the week before reading week. In addition, those who know about tne con- cert schedule never seem to understand that posters and announcements should be distributed so that some people know that there is a concert. When announcements are distributed, for events like the Parents' Weekend Concert, the Wells House news release, Concordy and the posters rarely agree on the time when the concert is to take place. For the Parents Weekend, con- cel-ts at both 8:00 and 8:30 were listed in of- ficial calendars. This kind of crass stupidity has got to stop. Admittedly, equally stupid things go on all the time at Union, but there are usually people who support them. I doubt if anyone would seriously support not put- ting up posters and not reporting the news in Concordy. At any rate, we should try it to find out. Robert S. Hoffman '65 Calendar 8:30 p.m.-Chamber Music Concert; Hugh Allen Wilson, Harpsichord, and Mary Russo, Flute; Old Chapel SATURDAY, MAY 15, 1965 2.00 p.m.-Lacrosse; Union vs. C.C.N.Y.; Daley Field SUNDAY, MAY 16, 1965 2:00 p.m.-Washington Vietnam Teach-In; Sponsored by IRC; Nott Memorial 8:00 p.m.-Dramatic Presentation: The Builder; Memorial Ohapel MONDAY, MAY 17, 1965 8:30 p.m.-Concert; Union College and Glens Falls Presbyterian Church Choirs; Memorial Chapei TUESDAY, l\'IA y 18, 1965 3:00 p.m.-Freshman Lacrosse; Union vs. Cortland 4:00 :p.m.-Jerome Holland; \Negro Higher Eduootion\; Hale House Student Lounge WEDNESDAY, MAY 19, 1965 2:30 p.m.-Baseball; Union vs. Middlebury; AlexanderField THURSDAY, MAY 20, 1965 3:30 p.m.-Address: Eugene Nickerson; Na;ssau Counuty Executive; Bailey · Hall 304 SATUR.DAY, MAY 22, 1965 Clasrses End 3:00 IJ.m.-Faculty-Student Art Exhibit, N.M. & O.C. 2:00 :p.m.-Tennis; Union vs. Middlebury; Tennis Courts 2:30 :p.:rn.-Freshman Lacrosse; Unio vs. RPI MONDAY, MAY 24, 1965 Final Examinations Begin I i Friday, May · Next Rese1 .~ At the ·} 1969 haver of Admissic the approxi The accept. geveral transf· the majority applicants av cration dep\ grades this s ticipates thai for next ye: will forfei-t th partment''s gc entering fresl 25 ovel' last Enlarg Maras exp leg·e is plann all enrollmen students dm years \in re~ Most of the place followil the prop·osed The Depa1 been able tc analyses on 1 ' tribution, nm and percent£ prep schoolE r lass. Eadier Department ma.ior shifts an,ticipated. More R~ The 365 st plied favoral which, areor• tainly will e1 es that we h year before.' quality of steadily anc high school 1 a more reali~ ing- admissi11 Gradu (Continn• Berkowitz Thomas k Hoscnhluom. Graduatin1 Hicharrl M. :Yiol'Se, Law Hobert S. l Fo, Gener. Those Who Kr Have b recomm Mau \3 Ill FOR ~ '· 1125 E Enjoy Si; D Just ,

Friday, May 14, 1965 Year's Freshmen Reserve Places For 365 Tau Beta Pi Elects Three 5 I Classic Dept. :-Student Polls College 1 To Offer Major: On Vietnant Question I Dean Lockwood has announced ' '~ At the present time, 365 candidates for the Class of En 11 i nee r s ' that for the first time since the A student at Union, Alan Blank, recently conducted 1969 haye .reserved places for next fall, Assistant Director <:7 'retirement of Professor Harrison 1' a survey on the extent to which students an. d professors f Ad J h T M Coffin, the Department of Clas- . d d h ld . · · th · · o mlSSl~ms · ·osep · aras announced yesterday. Of Three Union College students, sics is offering a major. With 1 here. were mforme an · e opmwns concernmg e CriSIS .~the apprmnmately 1650 applicants, 770 were accepted. E. Wesley Gifford '66, William the appointment of Mr. Donald A. in VIetnam. The acceptance figure includes • Nicolay '66, and Joseph Shoen- Ross of Columbia University as/ -----------~ The results, according to Blank, ~ev.eral tran·sfer students, although 1 .T T.nl•On Jlt• ..._. 17 S felt '66, will be initiated on May teacher of Greek and Latin to' B •td• . /indicated that students are more the majority of the 104 transferl l.J j 1 &.- 23 into Tau Beta Pi. replac~ Profes:;;or David Reece,: . Ul . JOgS • • • mil_itant than profess?rs in their applicants await further consid- Tau Beta Pi, established at ·who IS returmng to Aberdeen, 1 attitudes towa-rd UnJted States' } I cration dependent upon their N' e tfl!, Deans Unhm in 1964, annual'ly elects as Professor Norman Joh~son has (Continued from Page 1) I policy in the Asian war. Profes- grades this semester. Maras an- -~ members those who have achieved agreed to serve as chatr!'flan of school's history, by September, sors were less certain that this ticipates that several candidates The . . outstanding records in engineer- the Department of Cl~ss1<;s and 1966. If delays in constructhm ceLm try was justified by its pres- once How- quaiity of the when years. a ' '66 Brass the a two Profes- Carver present had priately f many rs. Per- dearth for the n three the articles ess fre- or neglect- as been student al- for get- that to Con- year Last during fol- ngweek. tne con- derstand be that Parents' news s raJ.'ely is to con- in of- got to go are • • I doubt not put- r the news try it '65 for next yea·r's freshman class d process of selectmg two ing. Student-orientad in its oper- thus to effect a combmatlon of are encountered, however, the ence in the area, and were more will forfeit their deposits; the De-j !led Ceans . to head the .r~organ- ation, The Union College chapter two one-man dep.artments. Pr?-' residences will not be occupied eager to resolve the conflict partment•s goal this year was 350 I se . l est~l s of Humamtles. and devotes its energies to a service fes~o~· Johnson Will assu~e thts . until the end of the first term of through negotiations. entering freshmen, an increase of ~~deJa ~tenc~s apd of ~cle~ce. proJ'ect of benefit to the college. pos1~10n at the end of thts aca-1 that year. Little Difference ., 5 0 ,,e 1 . last September. a Engmeermg 1s reachmg 1ts demlC year · Th '11 b d' It was further determined that \ • final stages. community . · ' ere w1 e no overcrow · mg Enlargement Planned Maras explained that the col- lege is planning to enlarge over- all enrollment from 1250 to 1500 students during the next few years \in response to demands.\ Most of the increase will take place following the completion of the prop·osed dormitories. The Department has not yet been able to prepare statistical analyses on the geopraphical dis- < tribution, number of alumni sons, and percentag·es from high and prep schools for the entering class. Earlier statements fl'Om the Department indicated that no major shifts in these areas were antidpated. More Realistic Apr>roach The 365 students who have re- plied favorably compose a group which, according to Mar;ls, \cer- tainly will equate with the class- es that we had last year and the year before.\ He added that the quality of applicants is rising steadily and that p•arents and high school counselors are taking a more realistic approach in ·seek- ing- admission. Recently the Department of difficulties if the plans do not freshmen and seniors are not Pa-rt of Larger Plan Faculty Elected Classics has been unable to offer 1 proceed smoothly. The present significantly separated in their The revamped administrative Professors Filadelfo Panlilio students an opportunity to major: college facilities will be capable attitudes. It was clearly evident structure was announced last and Richard B. Russ, both rnem- in this field except through an • of accommodating nearly the en- in the survey th·at professors September with the change in the bers of the faculty of Union Col- area of concentration within a tire student body through 11?66. were more knowledgeable of the presidential function, introduction lE>ge, have also been elected to the Division I major. Next year the i When the residences are com- facts surrounding the events . of the position of Provost and· Tau Beta Pi. department will broaden its base I pleted, those occupying North \It is apparently not only four the plans for a curricular revis- to include courses .previously of- , College will be shifted, leaving years of college tha:t engenders 1 · 0 u d tl · · · th Panlilio, professor of mechani- tl h b't f b · 11 · f m d \ n. n er 11s reviSlOH, · e pres- fered in Religion and Ancient · 1 . that dormitary free for renova- le a 1 0 e,,mg we -m or e ' ent breakdown into divisions will cal engineering at Union since Classics separately. Students may I tion. Blunk stated, bu_t also the; added be eliminated, and the college will 1955., is a native of the Philip- . . h 11 ,. rs , nd expertence which the pines, and an alumnus of the now elect to major ~n Class1cs 1 T e new ha · s are ~esigned to I J ~a a .. · , , be divided into two centers with University of .the Philip}Jines in and take courses both m the clas- house 510 men, allowmg an ex- pwfessois possess., The sUivey a Dean at the helm of each. M . 'l H d h' M S d sica! languages and in Eastern pansion. of total enrollment by I noted that only 14';o of t.he fr~sh- For the Dean of the Center of. l\haDm a. the eUar!le \tts £f. M .. ahn. classics including the Old and •)00 and ending the need for off men and '26 S·c of the semors cited Scl 'etlce and Engt'neert'n th at · e ntversx Y 0 IC I- ' · - • · · f s our e of thet'r g e ere- an and has tau ht at the Uni- New Testaments. Mr. Ross will cum pus hvmg. They will be the, pr<;> esso~s a a ~ c dentials of forty individuals with g 't f M' h'g d t th I teach Graeco-Roman classics in I homes of four fraternities as mformatwn on VIetnam. d · d · d t-· 1 b k verst y o tc 1gan an a e . . . ' . Tl 11 k 1 t'ot1S s h aca emic an m us •·113. ac - tT • • f th PhT · translation as well as courses m' well as mdependents The sutte 1e P 0 as et ques 1 uc grounds were considered. Six umverstty o e t tppmes. Latin and Greek. Professor John-~ system will be utili;ed through- as \Which policy do you favo!·?\ people came to the campus re- Russ, a professor of .engineer- son will offer work in Latin and out the structures to reduce the 1 ?r \Do _YOU. feel. tim~ suffictent c:ently from schools like M.I.T., ing since 1948, is chairman of in ancient classics from China, cell block atmosphere that has lmformatiO? ts bem.g dl'l_rulged for Purdue and N.Y.U. Acceptance of the Student Affairs Committee of India, Islam, and Palestine. i been objected to in Richmond 1 one followmg. the ~ttuattOn. c!oselr, the position has not yet been re- New York and New England of _ House. to form an mtelltgent opm10n? ceived. the Institute of Electrical-Elec- N • i No money from Union's endow- One Chosen tronics Engineers. An active Important oflce m~nt is. being u~ed to pay for; ~eginning l~ext Sep~emher, the In the Center of Humanities member of the IEEE and the The times of examinations to he 1 thts proJect. The mcome from the, pnce of rentmg a smgle room and Social Scie~ces about fifty' American Society of Engineering given Friday, May 28 and Wed-, bui~din!,rs will defram the amorti-: on campus will be increased from people were revtewed, all from Education he earned his B.E. and nesday, June 2 are correct as zatron of the lo~m. . . . the preRent cost of $45.0 per year the field of education. The person M.E.E. d~grees at Yale Univer- printed in last week's Concordy. i Th~ c_ollege IS also rev1ewm.g to $465 per year. A smgle room who will fill this post has a~- sity. The exams will be given at the, at ~!:1~ time t)le needs of ~cadem1c: takes up to 2/3 as. much space as ready accepted the offer, but hts time shown· but the order has facilities durmg the commg dec-, a double room, wh1ch earns $700. name will not be disclosed until been revers~d. The P.M. exams: ::J.de, and the possibilities for their 1 There will be no other changes in the Dean of the other center is are listed before the A.M. exams. ! improvement. room rates. engaged. The function of the new deans \\'ill he concentrated on coordimi.- tion of departmental activities and execution of the administra- tive work which is now on the shoulders of the Division Chair- Graduation • • • men. (C'ontinned from PagE' 1) Dunning, James M. 'Cplon, He!-; Berkowitz, Bruce G. Fike, mut J. A.ltncdcr, Larry C. Hot·o- Thomas E. Enright, Oscar .\. witz Martin V. Cohen, Alon Jeff-· H.osenbloom. rey,' Roger B. Stone (Evening 1 Graduating Cum Laude are: I Division), ~ie!Iael I. 9oldberg, WC\hard M. Aron. Stuart A. • Ronald R. Kne1pcr, Dand C. An- 1 Mo1·se, Lawrence R. Dittleman, 1 dcrson, Herbert I. Holder, Step: : !{obert s. Hoffman, William c. hen J. !sser and Thomas A. Dt 1 'Cerbo. i For three Generations Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Manriue B. Granbart & Sons 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY '· LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food 1125 BARRETTT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-97 44 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar STORAGE AVAILABLE WINTER GARMENTS STORED FOR FULL SEASON ONLY $2.95 + Reg Cleaning Price Fully Insured Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Natio.nal Bank Have Your Watch Repaired Right! •.. Right Here! Bring it In and let our specialists look it over. Reliable service is our watchword. And for new beauty, re-style your watch with a smart- .l((etyfer WATCHBAND Time Center Jewelers 428 State St. FR 4-0183 For the bride and groom •• • forever Choose from our large selec- tion of famous Keepsake Wed· ding Rings and you've chosen timeless beauty, classic styling, superb craftsmanship. JIEATHER .Man'• $20.00 Lady'e 12.50 Rlnp .. ~amc~ 10 ol.ow dcuil, 1'-lncfodo Foderil Tox. TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. Air Force ROTC has now been updated to fit into today's busy undergraduate schedule. Here are the facts about the new two-year AFROTC Program. Who is eligible for two-year AFROTC? Any male undergraduate who still has two years re- maining in college. It's an especially good break for junior college students who plan to complete their baccalaureate requirements at a four-year institution. What's the curriculum like? It's been thoroughly revamped. You won't find pat answers and tra- ditional ritualized solutions to problems. New instructional methods teach the student to arrive at his own conclusions. and to test them against those of his classmates and instructors. Symbolic of the change is the new title - Department of Aerospace Studies. How will students for the new program be chosen? First, you must pass the Air Force Offi- cer Qualifying Test and have a medical examina- tion. Then you meet with the interview board of senior Air Force officers, who will decide whether you are to be selected to attend the Field Training Course. This will be held during the summer before your junior year. Its purpose is two-fold; to let the Air Force judge you and to let you judge the Air Force. Only after you are both satisfied will you be enrolled in the program. So you see, you have everything to gain and nothing to lose by applying now. But you must act fast-applica- tions will be closing for next year's juniors. Forms are available from the Professor of Aerospace Studies, or from Headquarters Air Force ROTC, Maxwell AFB, Alabama. As an AFROTC cadet, will I receive pay? Yes, you will be paid for the Field Training Course which will amount to approximately $120. Dur- ing the school year, you will be paid $40 a month, and you will also get free uniforms. Will I have a chance to fly while I am in AFROTC? Senior graduates are eligible for the Flying Instruction Program. This involves 361fz hours of flight training and 35 hours of ground school. Successful completion earns you a civilian private pilafs license. United States Air Force Headquarters, Air Force ROTC Attn: OI Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama Please send more information about the new Air Force ROTC program. Name------------------------------- College now attending Addre5s --------------- Expcci to transfer to _____ ~-------- Address ______ _ Ex peeL---_ .. ___ degree in _____ ( Year) Home Address---------------------

I , CLINICAL PSYCH Page 2 Concordy Sports \LIVING OFF'\ PAGE3 ' ' Stickers Lose To Stevens, 17-14; Ephs Halt Face CCNY at Final Honte Ga~ne Garnet Win .---------------------, . ~· Tome Out: Benson For Beaudry By Howard A. Goldberg Tomorrow on Daley field at 2 P.M., Union College's varsity lacrosse team will make its final home appear- ance of the year. Providing the opposition will be a solid City College of New York team. Coach Allison's . club takes a 3-5-1 record into the game and must win its final three games against CCNY, Cortland and RPI to produce a winning season. Cortland just nosed out a weak RPI ten, 9-7, which provides hope for the Union rooters. Streak at 6 By Andy Colb (Continued from Page 1) : and went to secona as Bl ' Uce Fike · '-----.,.....---------:----------------' doubled. Kuhl .then scored on a . , ~ wild pitch, while Fike was left , This season our athletic department i:s 35-5-1. When Coach ' stranded at third. · Beaudry announced hi·s resignation last winter, 35 . applic · ations were Wil'liams . came back to tally received to fill his pQISition. Five of these men were invited to visit once in the fifth, sixth and sev- . our campus, and o~ these five, Rober~ W. Benson, a t'!\enrty-~ve ~ear by Kramer and a single account- varsiJ.ty tenms, and freshman soccer. ed for one run. Single.s by Me- The problems faced 1?-Y the athl.etic department in . choosing a Ph~arson and Capt. K1dd, sand- new coach are perhaps umque to Umon College. E•ssentially, Coach wh1ched around .t>yo Garnet er- . Ketz was looking for a swimming coach with an extensive swimming l rors, gave W1lhams another background. However, with a limited budgert for faculty salaries scor~, ar:d they completed their (need we bring that up again?), ~t . was. impossible to hil'e a sooo-nd scormg m the next frame on new coach to run the soccer and tenms squads. That Mr. Ben::;op , Mosher's single and Cadot's ha.s extensive experience .in both coaching and comrpeting lin s~m- ,. triple. ming teams as well as in coaching soccer at UCONN and teaching • 1 Burns Singles tennis at private clubs is indeed a godsend to Union. Mr. Ketz also · The Dutchmen still had Some · mentioned that the entire athletic depal'tment was \very happy with life in them, though, and almost their choi-ce.\ pulled the game out of the fire in At lea:st on paper, Mr. Benson seem:s excellently qualified to ·~ ~ the top of the ninth. Pinch-hit- h ting for Frank D' Allaird, who · coach athletics at Union. His own portfolio of records is wort y of h any member of Union's phys. ed. department. In .addition, · Mr. Ben- ad replaced Crookes in the son has already earned his masters and intends to begin work on At times during the season, Bob Dickman and his close de- fense have looked exceptionally good. At other times they have looked bad. The attack suffers the same problem of inconsis- tency-many goals against the weaker opposition and too few against the strong. The whole team collectively must play tighter defensively and back up each other. That was the main problem against Stevens, nobody sliding and backing up. When a team does not do these things, one dodge by an opposing play clears the way for a shot. If the defense, attack and midfields can put together the strong games they have shown at times this year, there is no reason to believe a 6-5 final mark is un- obtainable. Randy Westby leaps high to Attackman .John Hann makes his spear pass in game ag·ainst move towanl goal. eighth, Ed Burns opened ;f;he t't' · · · b ninth for the Garnet with a single his doctorate . His compe 1 1ve sw1mrnmg experience egan at > · to center, and Bob McAdams fol- .age 12. As a member of the New York Athletic Olub he held various lowed by drawing a base-on-balls. group swimming championships. At UCONN, he wa:s captain of the High-Powered Engineers Wednesday the Garnet stick - men were nosed out in overtime 17-14 by a high-powered offen- sively-minded Stevens Institute Lacrosse team. Flashing some of the form he showed last year, John Hann broke out of his slump to lead the Garnet in scoring with three goals and two assists. Randy Westby had foul' goals and Marc Hurlbut three goals and two assists. In any game with 31 goals scored, the defenses of both teams must have been lacking The Wiedman style: hit 'em till they drop. somewhat. Goalie Bob Dickman, however, did make 11 saves. Union's attack really let loose as they peppered 66 shots at the Stevens' goalie, who made 23 saves. By my calculation, 29 shots we1·e unaccounted for, which mean that the Garnet shooting will have to be improved to take advantage of this number of shots. The postponed game with YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME JUST RECEIVED- Trinity. Hamilton was made up on Mon- day . A poor Hamilton team broug-ht the caliber of Lacrosse played by the Garnet down to their own level, but this wasn't enoug-h as the Union sticlanen won, 8-1. Jeff Schultheis with three goals led the Garnet scor- ing. Garnet Loses to Trinity Last Saturday the Garnet and Trinity College put on a tremend- ous show for the Parents' Day crowd that was large enough to surround Daley Field and also pack the stands for the baseball game. Trin i ty showed why they were undefeated coming into the game and proved that they were the superior team on Saturday as they defeated a hustling Union ten, 8-5. The Garnet rose to the occasion in attempting to pull off their first upset of the year. Things started on the · wrong track as Trinity's star defense- man Alex Levy intercepted a Union feed and raced down field to score the Bantams' first goal. Union settled down to play solid lacrosse, and Trinity never played anything but solid lacrosse, so the half-time score was 4-2 in favor of the visitors. Ware Fuller scored at the be- ginning of the second half .to bring the score to 4-3 before Trm- ity came alive to score four straight goals to put the game on ice. It was a well played game C.1'om start to finish and the Dutchmen, probably remember- ing the way they lost to Middle- bury on penal ties, cut down ~n their miscues. Jeff Schultheis scored two goals for the Garnet. Union Stevens Union-Stevens line Score 2 3 4 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 4 2 3 4 Patronize Our Advertisers FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE 0 3 3 17 GENUINE INDIA MADRAS SPORT COAT GUARANTEED TO BLEED Sizes 36 to 46. Regulars and Longs 19 IB 40 A 334 State Street RPIMauls Track~nen 'l'he varsity trackmen closed out their dual meet season Tues- day by losing to RPI 90-53. They thus finished the year with a 2-4 record, and have only the state championships at Cortland <lll the 14th and 15th left before hanging up their spikes for another year. In the RPI meet, it was Paul Woodell who put on the show for Union, setting track records in the shot put and the discus. Paul put the shot 48'1%, \ and then hurled the discuss 157'7\ good for ten points and a place in the record book as well. John Peters finished second in the 100, sandwiched in · between two RPI runners. Joe Schoenfelt gained third places in the 220 and the high jump, and took a third in the 440. Dave Ring ran second in the 880, but won the mile. Bill Cas- sidy finished third in the 440, and Bill Monfred, a much im- proved intermediate hurdler, won this event for the Dutchmen, as did Bill Hunt the two mile. Woode'l; of course, won the sh-ot put, with John Morrison placing second. Al Baskous fin- ished second in · the javelin and third in the discus, Woodell win- ning the latter event. Bob New- begin soared to second place in the pole vault, and .Steve Roehm had to settle for seconds in both the broad and triple jumps. RPI captured both the 440 and mile relays. Coach Ketz considers Rochester the team .to beat at the states this weekend. Alfred and Hamil- ton should battle it out for sec- ond, Uni-on and RPI for fourth. RPI results: 100-1. l'asini <IO. 2, P e ters !t J ). 3, Tarler <R> . :10. 2. 2 2 0-1, l'a s in i <R> . :!. Andt•l ' Son <R). 3, S c hoPnfPlt (l'). : 23. 2. 440-1. Anderson (R). 3, Sd10 e nfelt (U). 3 , Cassidy ('(;). : 52.1. swimming team while setting school records in the 220 yd. and 440 After GalY ' Brown had skyed to yd. freestyle. He is also qualified and ce1·tified to teach SCUBA. At ~ i left, Bruce Fike lined a single to 25, Benson already has three year's of eollege coaching experience in I left, scoring Burns. When the swimmdng under his belt. left-fielder allowed the ball to go through his legs, McAdams also =· Union's · new all-purpose · coach comes hm·e well recommended. He scored, and Fike took third. Olson has shown the Athletic department a willingness to learn by observa- -' then drov.e the ball to center tion and sweat as well as to .teach. , When he becomes · Instructor of where it was caught. Greg got Physical Educ-ation on S-eptember 1, 1965, we can only hope that he credit for a sacrifice fly, however, lives up to the promise shown in his interviews and that he devotes as Fike crossed the plate. making his full energy to betterment of athletics at Union. Perhaps with the score 7-5. Down to their last :Benson's heolp Union's athletic record for the next fall and winter will · 1 out, the Dutchmen refused to be 35-5-1. quit. Art Marshall laced a single =~~~=~~~~=====~============= to center. Rick Crookes struck out, but the Wililams catcher dropped ·the ball, and his throw to first was not in time to catch Crookes, who alertly had taken off for first. Bill Toth drew his fourth walk of the day, and the bases were loaded. But McDonald then fouled out to the first base- man, ending the game and leav- ing three men stranded. The game wa · s almost farcical. In all, a total of nine errors were committed, five . by Union and four by Williams. '.fwo of the Ephmen's runs, which event- ually made the difference, were unearned, while the Garnet of- ficially deserved all the tallies they pushed across. It is surpris- ing they did not get more, for Union left eleven men in all stranded on the basepaths. Wil- liams left six. Kuhl Hurt The Garnet received a real scare in the sixth . Randy Kuhl, the team's starting catcher, was XS0-1. Stepp (R) . 2 , Ring- 11'1 . !l, Ru s eh (Rl. 1:55.5. HH-1. Rubinson (R)l. 2. I>lnkeloo <R >. 3, Srhaefer (R). :16 . 1. lNT H-1, l\lonfi ' ed (t.J). 2, Dink~loo (R). 3, Maso <Rl. :43. 2. :\Iile-1. Ring <U>. 2. Davis OU. 3, D o ris (R). 4:34.6. 2 mile--1. Hunt (U). 2 , Young (R) . 3 . none . 10 : 57.6. l' . V . -1. Decker (R). 2. Newbegin {U). 3. none. 11'6\. Hhot-1. Woodell (U}. 2, Morrison {U). 3. Ka r szes (R}. 4S'l ~ \. Ja . velin-1. Treiber (R} . 2, Bnskous (l:). 3, HOtlpert (R). 160'. Dlscus-1, Woodell (U}. 2, Benowitz <Ill . 3, Bas1mus {U). 153' 7\. IU-1, Ch l' lstensen (R). 2 , Saltzberg <H.l. 3. Schoen felt (U}. 6'4\. BJ-1. Anderson (R). 2, Roehm {U). 3 , Saltzberg (R). 20' 6 Ih\. TJ-1. DeSalu (R). 2, Roehm nn. 3, Saltzberg (R). 42' 91j.,\. 440 relay-RPI :47.4, l\lile r e lay-RPI 3:34.3. hit by one o£ Crooke's pitches, and was forced to leave the game. He w a s ' okay, and will appear in the next game. Gary Brown re- placed Kuhl. while Bob McAdams filled Gary's shortstop position. The loss was the first of the year for Crookes, who also saw his E.R.A . jump to 2.06, the first time all year he has been over 2.00, as a result of the five earned runs he permitted. Frank D'Allaird, who pitched another perfect inning in relief, lowered l1is E.R.A. to 1.93. Brown re- mained at a respectable 1.89 . The overall team fielding per- centage tells the story of Union's second defeat. In one game it dropped from .905 to .848, while the team hitting avearage re- mained at .253. Crookes still leads the team in individual batting, as he upped his average to .383. He is fol- lo\\\Ted by TO'Uh and Marshall, at .342 and .274 respectively. Marsh- all also leads the team in R.B.I.'s with 13, Brown in runs with 13, and Fike in both stolen bases ) . with 7 and walks with 10. Face Hamilton Tomorrow With three games remaining, Union has a chance to close out the season with a fine 13-2 rec- ord, the best in Union's histo1·y. Tomorrow, the Dutchmen travel to Hamilton to oppose the Con- tinentals, whom they previously 1 defeated 9-6. Next Wednesday they will face Middlebury here at Union, and the following Sat- urday will close out the year '1 against arch-rival R.P.I. at Troy. The Garnet has previously beaten the Engineers, 9-2, but since then R.P.I. has not lost, and the sea- ..,_ son finale figures to be a fine ball ! game. The box score for Wednesday's ~~;:: : ,' 0 ', : ' .'o': 'j Crookes (U, 7-1) 1 10 7 5 5 I} D'Allaird 0 0 0 0 0 Watson (W, 1·1) 8 1-3 8 Ashly 2 · 3 5 0 5 0 5 1 Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian - American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrell St. 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWtiNG LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PReMISES LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE BERMUDAS MADRAS - PATCH MADRAS - SEERSUCKER DACRON/COTTON SOLIDS- DENIMS Finest belt selection south of the Mohawk DAVE'S ~quire ~f!op ~ 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 ' l , · -

