further Dtl4th, and night? \ Wit11 shoulders, one. And the a balmy of singing ,. she had her choice of we want. <this mara- o.n. \we.'ve for about think that it until \But could pos- in that. to develop said .cooly, group will It shoul<l and iJ. for all of you? Were we inquir- \but I acci-' ot on a war that takes tonight, did. But pl'e- So there de- waiting drop in that we so wei our way .towards dawn,\ she bring a' pictures a story , iit is one ment.\ we would back into Y. to of .. Founded at Union College 18 77 ·Vol. 95- No. 18 ---Co:mmunity Governm~ent'---· IFC Votes Yes The Inter-Fntternity Council unanimously accepted the charter of the All-College Council during a short meeting, Tuesday. ni~ht. The ch~rter, sub- mitted by Eel Clark, chai'l'man of the H C Cons~1tutwnal Comm1tt~e, w~s basically the same charter theiFC ha.d approved m draft form earher th1s vear. . • The charter of the lFC Con::;titutioual Comnuttee has already been ap- proved by the Student Cuun('H, Faculty Council, and the administration. . The student body must now appro,·e the charter before the new council can go into opet·ation. A vut.: iH expected within the next two weeks. It is hoped that the council will be operating before the end of the school year. Pledges Harried Joe Shoen felt, president of the IFC Judic~ary Committee, said that Presi- dent Martin i::; disple~sed with di~turbances tn West College, cr~;used by the harassment of pledges by their fraternity brothe1·s. IFC president Randy Kuhl emphasized that the IF'C frowns on these disturbances as well as pledge rides. Anti-Inspection Sigma Chi prc:-;idcnl Duve Kasper ~ubmitted a propo~al call_ing for the abolition of the IFC \purity patt·ul,\ wh1ch conduct:; spot. mspectwns of f~a­ ternitie::; u ul'ing partr \\'eekends. Kaspe1· suggr.>sted that ms.t~ad of thes~ In- spections each fraternitv prc·sident submit to the IFC Juc!Ic1ary Con;m1ttee a Jist of ~ll members n1' 'other fratPrnitiPs w~o cause disturb:;nces durmg the party. Discussion of the plan was tabled until the next meetmg to allow the Council to think of alternative resolutions. Fraternity Forum Hunter Lewis, Chi Psi pre·sident, remind.ed .IFC members of the IFC workshop to be held March 14-15. During th1s t1me, frate1111ty representa- tives will discuss problems common to all houses. . . One result of these workshops ha:s been the formatl?n of the IF9. Pul- chasing Agency, which obtains certain food supplies used m all fratermttes: This agency has several openings for officers aJ?-d .mem?ers ex officwl. These positions are open to all sophomores and to Jumors m the five-yeay program. Qualifications include being a fraternity member and some experi- ence in commisary activities. New Three Term Courses Given Faculty Approval Pre-registration for courses under the new three-term curriculum will be conducted during the coming month. A complete list of revamped courses already developed and approved ~y the Faculty will be prepared for d1s- Morton Studies Federal Use Of U.S. History At the Founders' Day .ceremonies held last Friday, Louis Morton, pt•o- fessor of history at Dartmouth Col- lege, discussed the influence of his- tory on Ameriran politics and foreign relations. In his lecture on \History Histor- ians, and Foreign Policy,\ Prof. Mor- ton noted that historians .are not pol- icy makers. He cited an example, however where historians \contribut- ed obje~tive views\ to po.Jitidans. This was during Presid~nlit Kennedy's • administration; the Chief Executive knew that statesmen needed a knowl- edge of history and used intellectuals as advisors. Historical Sense Prof. Mol.'ton stated that all leaders were well aware of hiSitory and .had an acute historical sense .. Amertca!l presidents have been e~pec1ally sensi- tive to history. Prestdent rr:ruman, for example, used Ma~chur:a. a~d F:thiopia as models for his pohc1es m Korea. President Eisen~ower, a~­ though not \steeped\ in htstory, dt<l reading in this field. Jo~~ Ken!ledy, in contrast, was a pract1C'lng ~ISto:­ ian, especially in the area of hJston- cal biography. American Feelings America's sense of history was de- scribed as a \national trait.\ Morton felt that few ather countries were &o conscious of their historical tradi- tions as America. HistOl'J' for the U. S. has a relevance particularly in foreign affairs. Our colonial experi- ence was a different one; our revolu- tion was fought to \preserve some- thing\ rather than to initiate a new idea Americans are now proud of thei; stability and wary of radical change. U. S. Isolationism Professor Morton noted that many of our ideas in this country were shap- ed during the 19th century. Isol~­ tionist atti.tudes, for example, still have a \nostalgic quality\ and re- mind us of less ir()ubled days. Yet Continued on Page 5, Col. 5 tribution ·shortly. The compilation will include a bt·ief description of the pro- grams and any restrictions attached t() them. The administration h; developing a system this year which will anticipate and avoid any conflicts among courses which an individual wishes to take. It will probably involve staggered lunch hours. The faculty has expressed gen- eral optimism abcmt this project. Requirements Clarified The new course descriptions will in- clude more clearly defined statements of major requirements than in the past. Hopefully, this procedure will erase any confusion between require- ments and electives. According to Theodore D. Lockwood, Dean of Fac- ulty, the \you-don't-have-to but-you'd- better-take-the\ courses, should be eliminated 11ext year. Most eoui'Ses offered under the ne\v calendar will be largely revised ver- Rions of present ones. For freshmen, first-year requirements have been to- tally revamped under the Comprehen- sive Education program. The engi- neering- cnrriculum has also been fully redesigned. A detailed statement of the new curriculum ha·s been approved by the faculty as a whole. Next year's programs will be de- veloped by each student this month, with the assistance of the faculty advisers. 2 Seniors Receive Wilson Fellowships Two lJnion College seniors were named recipients of Wood- ·ow Wilson Fellowship's thi~ week. Rodham Tulloss, a mathemat- ics major and Editor of the Idol, and Eric Levy, English major and member of Phi Epsilon Pi Fraternity, will receive a year of graduate education at the gchool of their choice and a $2000 stipend from the Wood~ row Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. Levy and Tulloss are two of 1,408 Wilson Fellows chosen thi's year from over 11,- 000 students nominated last fall by the colleges throughout the nation. Four other Union students ap- plied for Woodrow Wilson Fel- lowships this year. These stu- dents are: John Becl{erman, a history ma.for; Richard Fate- man, concentrating in physics; Charles Fenimore, majoring- in m at h e m a t i c s; and William N aufftus, an English major. FRIDAY, MARCH 1966 D.U.'s Winning Animal Pollock Scores Winter Weekend Chapel Damage 0. Edward Pollock, Dean of Stu- dents, and Paul Costello, president of the Class of 1969, have disagreed about the extent of damage done to Memorial Chapel during Winter Week- end, February 25-26. Dean Pollock stated that the up- st~irs pew's of the chapel were \badly scarred.\ He said there was other damage that had been cleaned up by the time he examined the building Monday morning. \Somebody was surely on the pews with heavy feet,\ the Dean said. \How- ever, it is utterly impossible to de- termine the guilt. No one was re- ported to me.\ Damage Anticipated Last October, when preparations for Fall Weekend were under way, mem- bers of the Campus Religious Activi- ties Committee made public their res- ervations about permitting rot!-k-and- roll performances in the chapel. The-y pointed to a concert several years ago during which extensive damage was done to the building. Asked whether the reports about Wintm· Weekend confirmed the com- mittee's reservations, De!iJll Pollock re- plied, \No comment.\ Costello Disagrees Paul Costello, freshman class pres- ident, disagreed with the dean on the extent of the damage. \As for the damage in the chapel,\ he said. \1 didn't see any.\ Cnntinued on Page 5, Col. 2 PRICE 15 CENTS Dortn Proposals Launch Student Attact On Rules A student formulated proposal for alteration of Union's social regl.lla- tions \'iH he presented to the admin- istration within the next two weeks. The Student Council Committee on Social Rules revision will draft the recommendations. They will be coor- dinated with the suggestions of other student groups and presented to college officials. President Martin and Dean Lock- wood have expressed interest in c4ang· ing the rules which are generally con- sidered to be out-moded. They prefer, however, that students 'take the in- itiative in advancing proposals for revision. The maj()r aim ·of the Council com- mittee is a liberalizati()n of dormitory and frateTnity hours. Ed Clark, a member of the committee and head dormitory counselor in South College &aid that the suggestions \will not shoot for the moon,\ but will attempt a moderate relaxation of <the regula- tions. The Committee, composed of Cl.arl{, Jeff Ratner, Barry Newman and Paul Ccrstello, hopes .to have upstairs lounges opened to women guests on weekends in South and West Colleges and Richmond House. The suggested hours are Friday from 7:00 P.M. to 12:00 P.M., SatUTday from 12:00 nilon until 5:00 P.M. and from 7:00P.M. to 1:00 A.l\1., and Sunday from 2:@0 P.M. until 10:00 P.M. Only first floor lounges are now availa:ble in the major college dormi- tories. The ·same recommendations will be made for identical rules which presently govern fraternities. Hours for the first floor public rooms are also expected to be altered under the proposals. Women are now perm..ittcd in the public rooms Sunday through Friday from 12:00 noon until 8:00 P.M., and Qll Saturday from 11:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M. for fraternities, and from 1-2:00 noon to 1:00 A.M. for dormi·tories. The suggested public rooms hours are Sunday through Thursday fr.om 10:00 A.IVI. until 12:00 midnight and from 11:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M. on Fri- day and Saturday. The Committee will also suggest that dormitory rooms be opened to women on Saturday and Sunday after- noons from 2:00 to G:OO, with doors lefl open and the dorm counselor pres- ent in the building. The suggested revisions will be pre- sented to a meeting of the Dormitory counselors next week for elaborations. The Counselors are developing their own set for complaints about dorm living which they plan to submit to the trustees. Ca.m,pus Action Council Off to Pronzising Start Union's proposed chapter of the Schenectady Community Action Pro- gram moved one step closecr to reality at a meeting last week. Enthusiasm Forty-two students and half a dozen faculty members attended a preliminary meeting in Nott Memor- ial Monday, February 21. Prof. Nor- man B. J·ohnson, ch-airman of the campus organizing committees, said he was \very encouraged\ by the re· sponse. ,phelps Tracy, '68, .spoke to the meeting a.bout the kind of work vol- unteel'S might do if the p-rojeC!t is approved. He included the tutoring of high school students, leading dis- cussion groups, taking field trips, and reading stories and singing songs with younger children. Tracy has worked for .some time at Schenec- tady's Carver Community Center. Prof. Johnson said la:ter that any stud-ent who is interested in this woork, but who was unable to attend Monday'·s meeting, should see him to fill out a questionnaire. This form asks the student ·to indioa.te to wbich activities he feels he could most con- tribute. Second Meeting There will be an informal coffee how· fo1· all students who have filled out questionnaires on Monday, March 7. The meeting will be at 4:30 P.M. in Silliman Hall. Representatives of the Carver Community Center and Mo11tt Pleasant High School wiH speak about the proposed programs: . All other interested students are mVIted to a.ttend. Robbery In EE At 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. this evening, RIFIFI will be shown in EE 22 as part of tlte Union Col- lege Movie Series. The film, based on the novel by Auguste le Breton, has been described as \. • • the keenest crime fihn that ever came from France.\ The high point of the film is the thirty minute rob- bery scene during which not a word of dialogue nor a note of music is heard. ---------------- Stolzberg Named Concordiensis Editor The Publications Selections Com• mittee elected Robert Stobberg edi- tor-in-chief of Concordiensis last week. He will take over for Barry Newman, who has edited the campus newspaper for the past year, after this issue. Th€ Commi.ttee also chose Robert Rosenthal, '67, for the position of Business Manager, replacing Jeffery Spector. Stolzberg, a Political Science ma- jor, served as Feature Editor under Newman. He is a past-president of the campus Young De-mocrats and co- chairman of the Political Forum. He is currently vice-president of the mov- ing finger. Rosenthal has served on the busi- ness staff for two yea;rs, and is a mathematics major. Paul Sherwin, '67, has been nan1ed Feature Editor on the new senior editorial board. He has frequently written for Conc()rdiensis fO'r over two years, .and was LilteT'ary Editor f.or the past yeair. Don . Schwartz was deSignated Manlllging Editor. He is a junior English M.aj'Or. The new senior board of CONCORDIENSIS with its new editor-in-chief, Robert Stolzberg, seated center. From left to right are Morty l{amzan, Don Schwartz, and Paul Sherwin. Missing from the photo are Robert Rosenthal and Andy Colb. Morty Koamzan, '57, will continue as News Editor under the . new leader- ship, a post he 'l\SSUIUed Ia.st month. Andrew Colb will temporarily l'emain as Sports Editor. The other candidates for the edi- torship were Morty Kamzan and Frank Mauro.

2 Friday, March 4, 1966 U.C. Physicists Probe Problems And Properties By 1\Iichael Graber An education in physics is incomplete if one neglects to expose the stude:nt to the methods and torments of ex- perimental research. Our phy- sics department has recogniz- ed this, and the faculty and seniors of the department are currently engaged in four ma- jor research efforts. One of the most unusual is being di- rected in the field of neuro- physics by Professor Henry. Pl'ofessor Henry, with the aid of senior Bob Wentink, is studying the patterns of neu- ral response in crayfish. Con- : .. •.(-·'·· Dave Mann is shown here with U nion•s Van dl\ Graff accelerator tinuing work which he began cluring his sabbatical year at Caltech, Dr. Henry is utiliz- ing a knowledge of the char- acteristic response \'elocities of the different neurons to deter- mine which pattern of input impulses to tht' g:.mglia is as- Overseas Report: sociated with the different out- put patterns which move the muscles. The 11em1al signals are re- corded by two small electrodes touching the particular nerve being considered. A .system of delay circuitry measures the velocities of the impulses, and then feeds the information intG a multichannel analyzer which cGunts the number of impulses sent on each neuron of the nerve cord. Professor Henry's immediate goal is to assoeiate moYements of cer- tain specific muscles in the rrayfish with specific neural stimuli. The larg.er question in the background is whether, knowi.ng all the stimuli to which an organism is subject- ed, one can predict the organ- ism's responses. Backscottering A study of electron back- seattering is heing conducted by one of the new members of the Phys·ics Department, Pro- fessor Titus. He is trying to fit a theoretical explanation to the phenomenon of elec- trons entering a solid and then \hounring\ out. The energy spectrum anci numher nf thes<' harksratterecl !.'lec-trons is seen to OPpPTld upon ang-1<' of inri- denr<' and the initial energy; howe,·er, a pirtUJ\€ of the me- rhanism which leads to this hacks('attering is not known. Professor Titus i;s presenting a paper on this subject at the meeting of the American Phy- sical Society in Washington, D. C., in April. In addition, Professor Titus is reading on the subject of scattering of polarized gam- ma 1·adiation. He hopes to design an experiment utiliz- ing the peculiar properties of polarization to further explain the process of gamma-ray scattering. · However, this ex- periment will require a large amount of instr11mentation and wm depend upon the availabil- ity of a grant to finance it. Continuing work begun at Oxford University last year, Professor Goble, with senors Dave Shaw and G1·aham Hub- ler, is undertaking the con- struction of a combination ift .. :,·.n ~:;'<-· b:f.:·· ~=~~t.:::. measuring these changes, it is possible to deduce the shifts in the nuclear structure resuU- ing from the addition of the neutron. At present, hollow-cathode sources for the tin Slpectra are being constructed and tested. Professor Goble hopes to have John Lee studies a target chamber which is used for tile scattering of charged pat·ticles. Ptalon-spectrometer to study the wavelengths of light emit- ted by different isotopes of tin. In an isotope, when the atomic weight has been changed by the addition of a neutron, the electronic structur·e is also c·hanged slightly. This pro- duces changes in the light r>mitted from the atom. By the instrument in ope1·a.ting condition next year. While at Oxford, using similar equip- ment, Dr. Goble was able to detect changes in wavelength on the order of five nuclear diameters (one wavelength of \·i.sible light is approximateJy :l,OOO,OOO,OOO nuclear diameters long), and was able to makt' Spain Suffers From Stagnation And Uncertainty I found Spain chal'lning and interest- ing, but somewhat ba~kward:s and frus- trating. The country IS full of old cas- tles and churches. It is an experience to visit the palaces of Phillip II and all the other Spani·sh greats. However, I often \\Ot the impression that many ·of the Spaniards are living in the Middle Ages. Outside of Mad·l'id, Barcelona, and sev- eral other modern cities, this living in the past is obvious by the physical condi- tions of the country. There are many isolated pueblos; the farmer still uses the hand ploug-h for tilling, the ox fo1· trans}Jortation, the aqueduct for Irnga- tion. Furthe1·, this living in the past is obvious in their philosophy towards li-fe. To Americans, time is muncy, good or bad, but to many Spaniards it is not this world that is important but the next. Thus, the manana, manana attitude. The Catholic Church is partly responsible for this backwards attitude. The main ele- ment is Gene1·alisimo Franco who has put a damper on £'ducation and any type of self-governnwnt. Spanish students lovE' to }Joint to the fact that the government >~pends only t\vo dollars a year for educa- tion pt'r student, nr le'ss than Ghana. Siesta Outlook The peopll' seem gay and uninhibited by the hm-ry, hmry, work, work, grind, g-rind attitude in Ameriea. Everyone takes time out for tht>ir g-lass of wine and Riesta. but und!.'rneath I think the peoiple art' frustratt'd politically, econom- iPallr, and socially. In part this explains the tremendous enthm;iasm for the bull- fights anrl the crowds of 100,000 at 'soccer gamN;. TheoP events serve as an outlet. What Nexr> Naturally, the question is >vhat hap- pens after Franco. By law Spain reverts back to a monarch-whether absolute or constitutional is undecided. The Span- iards themselves are confused and di- vided on the issue of political succession. I had one Spanish professor tell me Ame1·icans wony more about the problem than Spaniards do. While talking to an- other Spaniard about democracy, I learn- ed that Spain has more of a democracy than the United States does. The con- versation reminded me of Profes'Sor Gati's Political Science 21 red light- gi'een light analogy. The Spaniard told me that in America you can not do any- thing you want-you have to stop for red lights. In Spain you can go through them and there are no arrests-this is freedom-he explained·. :~ Spain's Civil War Memorial: Valley of of the Fallen. In the twentieth century I have my doubts about a monarch, although I realize several exist. I cannot see a peaceful transition from Franco's gov- ernment to another political system be- rause Franco has not prepared the poo- ple. This same lack of political educa- tion was the reason for the failure of the democratic constitution of 1812 and the Second Republic. The older genex- ation still remembers the terror of iihe last civil war, but their sons and grand- sons do ·not. There will be difficulties in any transition-how serious i's another question. However, any period of chaos would be an ideal time for the commun- ists to gain strong political footholds. University Life The University of Madrid is huge- 40,000 students. This is a phenomenon of the last decade; enrollment ha·s quad- l\upled since 1955. Economically Spain lags far behind most other Western Eu- ropeal countries. The cost of food and housing ha..\ been increasing faster than wages. This summe1· I worked in an ad- vertising agency in Madrid for $30 a week; an account executive was making $300 a month. Policemen earn more than university professors, who average no more than $250 a month. The young people look for a better life and hope to find it through the university. How- ever, when this huge group graduates there are fe>v jobs for them. Violent Future? The university is composed of several Poll<'ges. Five hundred American stu- dents and myself were studying in Letras y Filosofia (Liberal Art's College). Po- litical activity on campus centered here ami at the Law and Political Science col- leges. Fo1· years the Spanish students have been seeking a student govemment independent of the Ministry of Educa- tion. For years the government has said nothing about the student demands, and the ·students in their frustration are pro- testing. The protests turn to demonstra- tions and strikes and in the spring could become violent. Occasionally I saw gov- ernment troops on campus \keeping the peace,\ for political strikes are illegal. I think Napoleon was right when he said Europe ends at the PYJ·anees. I did not get the impression that Spain was a real member {)f any so-called \Emopean Community.\ Spain is Spain and not what Time Mazagine says about it. MAMA BIANCHIS FERRO PHARMACY L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY AMERICAN and ITALIAN FOOD COOKED TO ORDER Tuesdays and Thursdays Special HOMEMADE SPAGHETTI and MEATBALLS $1.00 1135 Barrett Street 57.5 Nott Street -r. Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - . KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13~10 correspondingly fine estimates on the shal])es of the nuclei. Pl'ofesaor Pilcher has two student research projects un- der his guidance. One of them, the study of the productio11 of neutrons by the .bomhard- ment of a nucleus with neu- tr011s, is being . conducted by David Mann. Professor Pil- cher explained the targets of materials such as iron aud copper were bombarded with neutrons produced by Union':; Van de Graatf acrellerato!'. The neutrons cause a change in the target nucleus which re- sults in the emission .of an extra neutron and a change in atomic weight of one atomic mass unit. This change can be recognized by the change in the g:amma ray emission of the target. By comparison of the gamma ray emission before and after bombardment, the \receptiyity\ of the nuclei to this reaction can be determin- ed. This data 1s utilized in describing the structure of nuclear states. Pt•ofe·ssor Pi1cher is aJso supervising the construction of a target chamber by John Lee. When added to the accelerator, this apparatus will permit the study -of neutron prod'qction by r1euteron atolThS bombard- ing tritium targets. Mr. Lee is now 'Studying Rutherford sea ttering in order to_ gain experience in the operation of the chamber. Dubious Researchers Seek Upliftables Dr. Herbez:t Otto, noted psychologist and author, recently commended Unwn College's Character Research Project. Otto is an associate .professor at the l'\nivcrsity of Ctah's Graduate School of Social Welfare. This Research projed, founueu in 1tl:J5, i.; based on the hope that each person can, through guiding forces, find his own uniqueness and realize the nature of his \destiny.\ Once the person has discovered this, he :;an work within this framework to live a fuller and more successful life. Health? Dr. Ernest Ligon, the man rel5-poneible for this project, was a. member of the Union College faculty and chairman of the Psychology Department. He was once asked, if a person put to action the teachings he receives in Church, wo11ld he be men- tally healthy or unhealthy? Dr. Ligon's purpose was to answer this question, and in attempting to formulate an answer he cre- ated the nation-wide Character Research Project. When he first formulated the idea to ·set up this research laboratory, Dr. Ligon had the responsibility of conforming to the rules of the school in which he would work. A large univer- sity, he said, require<! the traditional treatment of psychology. Cnion's belief was that every department should do something special, ''making it the best in the country.\ Hence, Dr. Ligon proeeeded with hi\s Character Resem,ch Project here at Union. ''I don't know of many colleges that would make jt possible for mt' to bf.' so ft·t'e to explore,\ Dr. Ligon commented. At first he set up a measurement lab on the campus, but because of the tre- mendous expansion this project has undergone, it has been moved to the third floor of the public school on Nott Terrace. Propaganda Working with ap-proximately 30 employees, Dr. Ligon sends out special forms to churches, dubs and individual families throughout the country. On these forms, the l)articipants an- swer questions concel'ning daily experiences they have had in relation with the U<~e of their religwus teachings. These forms are then returned to the C.R.P. center in Schenectady, whe1•e the various data are compiled. These data a1·e used to formulate possible C(}Urses of study to be used by groups cooperating in the program. Possible answers to problems which arise are then sent out to these people for further refinement. It should be noted, howevet·, that C.R.P. is not merely a data gathering organization, hut a group of skilled personnel forming hypotheses concerning methods of teaching the dimen- sions of character. \Characte1· Dr. Ligon stated, \is defined, here at C.R.P., a·s the strength of the person's conviction and of his purpose, and the level at which he wants to sel'Ve his fellow man.\ Positively It is Dr. Ligon's hope that by participating in the Character Research Project, the person can learn to further increase his attributes or \positive side\ and by accomplishing this he might overcome or subdue his faults. Until recently, the Character Research Project dealt with school children up to the high school grades. Currently, though, a new program has been developed where almost 180 students at Wayland Baptist College in Texas are participating in the C.R.P. These students are periodically tested and interviewed by Dr. L~gon and his as'sociates. It is C.R.P.'s hope that these students wtll eventually become prepared to make better decis- ions and will be aware of their \destiny.\ Although tile project is called the Union College Character Research Project, it is no longer directly affiliated with Union's psychology department. The majority of the funds for this project come from the Lilly Endowment of Indianapolis. Shortly afte1· the C.R.P. was developed, Mr. Eli Lilly of the Lilly Drug Co. too-k an interest in Dr. Ligon's idea, and to this date has donated almost $2 mil- lion. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our F.ine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 1 A.M. Tllnt; Center Jewt;lc;f's YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 f ............................................... . ~ DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118-120 JAY STREET jf.•••••••••·•·•A•+&4'&4A4*++•++•+++••••••••••••••• Friday, Ma1 Uni( Assi~ Union st1 munity Cen ·why they ar start swimr to slum chi \I'm doin kids,\ said Bob has bee week. He is Casey, who School. Bob \His pa,rent sisters.\ The patte ily concern 1 neighborhou Johnny, has phrsics ma.j aru-ted. Hh; a aine-year Carver Cenl mitted to a11 has cerebral had a little Mike said to help a lit the children exceptionall: eating with uow the bo~ hi:; ::;ub~titut He r~cum dl'nb \wh\ ol Ulll life.\ There is r that they w tliabolical fa said Bob T Tracy, supet boys. \Whe \it makes n I got. It's J else.\ The club the Boys' C many of thE their own tl l'nderlyin \·olun teerin,g other part 1 Phelps said, boys' club felt that the There is a and the act ~ able to my;;, Jeff had who ranged He tried to but found t names. Nei: that \them illiterate.'' I ing with a , level \is far Neil S'aid l I had never perience fo1 does.\ One grour ming instrUI seven to fou underway s supervises t dents work at the YMC State come return for tl course in seJ Rick hold: American R two years : arrangemen: into social v ing thing'S a he said. Other Uni Ken Merch • Philip Visci Douglas Ido Several l 1 in volunteer logy co tirse1 • • who started for his psyc he enjoyed 1 fifth-grade 1 a lot\; \no he said. I . Ca Fl'iday, l' and 9:( Saturday. nament Monday, Weiner Stud en· dent L< Wednesd: Arts Q tion, 8: Fl'iday, 1.\ and 9:C a~

h 4, 1966 mission of parlson of before the nuclei to determin- in of is aJso of John Lee. the bomba:rd- Mr. Lee to_ gain of rs Otto is . raduate on the own nee the was o.f the put be men- a:nswer he ere- to univer- thing Ligon for first he the tre- moverl sends an- had in forms the in then a dimen- and of fell<nv araeter his might with in the t these er dccis- the P. was mil- 4 .4. A • A t Friday, March 4, i 966 Union Students Assist Community By Robert A. Fried Union students working at the Carver Com- munity Center are almost unanimously agreed on ·why the~ are. volunteering to help run boys' clubs, start sw1mmmg p:rogram·s, and be \big brothers\ to slum children. \I'm doing it because I like being with the kids,\ said Bob Borofsky, a psychology major. Bob has been working for the Center for just one week. He is a big brothe1· to a fifth-grader r1amed Casey, who attends the Horace Nann E-lementary Sc~ool. Bob described the boy's family situation: \His pa·rent~ m·e sepnratecl. He has two younger sisters.\ The pattern of bruken humes and minimal fam- ily concern can be seen o\'er and over again in the neighborhood. \My little brt~ther, Len-year•eld Johnny, has three :;i:;ters,\ ~J.aid Mike Montesi a phrsics nmjo1·. \His mother and father are s~p­ arD:ted. Hi::; olde·r t5ister i.s mentally slow; he has a aine-year-old si'::;tet· who is mentally ill, but Carver Center does not want to have her ,com- mitted to an institution. His seYen-year-old sistel' has cerebral palsy and is slowly gaing blind. He had a little brother who died three years ago.\ ··wanted to Help\ Mike said he volunteered \because I just wanted to help a little bit. What I wanted to do i's widen the children's hot·izons. Slum residents' aims are exceptionally low.\ He had a pl'oblem communi- cating with his little br~;ther at first, and even 11ow the boy \\'ill ll<·>l talk about his father. \I'm his substitute father,\ :\like said . He n~colllHICuded vulunteer work lo Cnion stu- dent:> \1\'h~> \\'alit l•• hdp and 1~<1111 HIUn.: ;.~bout ol Lllll life.\ There is no feeling a111ong lhe :;tudent workers that they will be able to re:;cue children from a Jiabolical fate. \We're n\t out to cut·e humanity,'' said Bob Thurber. Bob and his .friend Phelps Tracy, supervise a club of eight- a-nd nine-year-old boys. \When I'm with these kids,\ Phelps s:aid, i \it make~ me a lot !11ot·e aware of all the breaks 1 I got. Its fun to g1ve ,;ome breaks to somebods \ else.\ I The club takes trip,;, finger-paints, and goes to the Boys' Club on 'Union Street. Bob noted that many of the childrPn \kne\\' more about being 011 their own than I did.\ Cnderlying· the basic humanitarian motive for l'olunteering is another reason. \This is just an- other part of life that you don't ~wt at Union,\ Phelps said. Jeff Savitsky, who worl•ed with a boys' club last year, put it more strongly: \] felt that the college activities were kind of false. There is a discrepancy between the real wol'ld and the activities. I feit it would be more valu- ~ able to myself and to others if l did this.\ ! Couldn't Write Jeff had a group of fourth and fifth-graders, who ranged in age from eight to ten years old. He tried to take a written poll of the children, but found that many could not even write their names. Neil Barkin, a pre-medical student, found that \the most striking thing is that the kids are illiterate.\ His biggest disappointment after work- ing with a club is that the c•hildren's educational level \is fantastically low.\ Neil said he volunteered for two reasons: \First I had never done anything like it. It was an ex- perience for me. Second, for the social good it does.\ One group of Union students has set up a swim- ming instruction program for boys and girls f'rom seven to fomteen years old. The program has been underway since November. Rick Dudley, who supervises the program, described it: \Union stu- dents work with the boys on Wednesday nights at the YMCA. On Thursday, girls from Albany State come here to tearh the girls swimming. In return for their time I'm giving them a Red Cross course in senior lifesaving.\ Holds Certificate Rick holds an instructor's certificate from the American Red Cross. He worked for the center two years ago, also in a swimming instruction arrangement. A psychology majm·, he plans to go into social work after graduation. \I keep learn- ing thing'S all the time from this volunteer work,'' he said. Other Union students working on swimming are Ken Merchant, Pete Drotman, Frank Knight, Philip Viscidi, Divid Pittinos, Terry Bird, and ' Douglas Ido. Several Union students first became involved in volunteer work through psychology and S(}cio- logy courses. Typical of these i·s Newell Bacon, • who started working at Carver three years ago for his psychology course, then returned because he enjoyed the job. He has a club of fourth- and fifth-grade boys, who meet weekly. They \n1ry a lot\; \no one individual dominates the gr.oup,\ he said. ~~ffi@m~~ffiWffiWt~~~®~&*ffiffiWN~MWill~WWWW~ill I Campus Calendar W~ Fl'iday, March 4: E.E. 22 Film Series, 7:00 ~~ '\~ and 9:00 p.m. \Rififi.\ M '·} Saturday, March 5: I.C.A.C. Wrestling tout·- ~ fJ nament at Hobart. . ~ Monday, March 7: Convocation, Gharles i~ Weiner, Memorial Chapel, 8:00p.m. jil Student Council Meeting, Hale House Stu- '*'~ dent Lounge, 7:30 p.m. M Wednesday, March 9: Museum Series, Fine £ Arts Quartet, Memorial Ghapel, Gonvoca- ffi tion, 8:30 p.m. m Friday, March 11: E.E. ~2 Film Series, 7:00 2 and 9:00 p.m. \Alone m the Streets.\ l,,l'W<~l;1l:HP'f9'iil>.<~'!§i'ff'''ll\i~1W\#\\V''%'~';io;rsw'W;'l<'i¥~WI-*<;;';fl'~'~?<'i\'-4illffu 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 3 Political Scene: Vietnam: U.S. Supports Wrong Fellas By R'obe1·t Stolzberg I would be misleading you if I told yop that I know where, when and how this matter in Vietnam will be resolved. ~Dean Rusk It seems strange that the United States i~ spending 'so much effort Gn an operation that is essentially against both our interests and out· principles. For the Gni.ted States actions are both of these, and the only rationale for continuing them is that we sbrted them-althGugh evt n backers Hf the present policy agree tha:t many of tho:;e initial premises on which \Ye act are faulty. The United State's has 20(),000 troops in South Vietnam. Why? To defend freedom, to redeem our pledges to the South Vietnamese g·overnment. But is a pledge made to a g·ove'l·nment whose prime support is the 'C. S. va:Iid? And is a gov- emment {It do.esn't reaHy matter which) with little or no popular support to be the basis of freedom? These are questhms which the govern· ment of the United States must answer. The first it never has, and the second only by pointing to some far-off never-never land when the Viet Cong w·ill disappear and let the freedom-loving generals of the South (such as General Ky who was born in the North and suggested early in his tenure that what South Vietnam needed was a Hitler) make the sun shine once more. And the United States has also never squarely faced the question of just who the Viet Cong m·e. It has c0ntinually told us of theil· connections with Hanoi and Peking and asserted that they are controlled by them. That there are C01l- nections, ll<) <Jilt' will dt'll\'. But thl'll' Sl'l'lllS 11<1 l'\·idence of total, or near· total control. The only arg-um('nt S<'<'lli'>' to GL' that tht•y are <'l>llllllllnists- ami this is taken as a priori proGf. But the fact>' indicate that actuaHy the VC are the linear de- ~C'endents of the movement which fought and de- fcatPd French rulonialism. The major motive force is one of nationalism much mol'e than com- munism. The American apologists also seem to ignore that the VC have been the only one's with any in- terest in the countt·yside. The French-trained bur- eaucrats stayed strictly in Saigon; no promotions 1\\et·e to be gained slogging around in the mud 11·ith the peasants. Jt .is only now, twel\•p yea1·~ after independencr, under the prodding of the VC, that the ~aig-on government is making any real attack on the pmblems of the countryside. For the farts show grm:>s needs for such basic thing~ as land reform-98% of the peasants own less than 40'.(, of the land; the remaining 2'1~· own more than 60%. If the Saigon governments ha\·e been truly interested in the peasant, why have thev allowed this situation to continue? The reason is that these governments have not cared, and the Viet Cong hav·e. The VC are in control of half the population of South Vietnam because they have convinced the people of their intere·st. (This is not to ignore the use of terror and political assassination, but to recognize that the government used the ·same tactics, thus equal- lizing any discrepancy on that score.) Thus, avow- ed US goals are most effectively pursued by the VC. So why doesn't the US support them? The only an'Swer is that we have been afraid of some vaguely conceived notion of an \intel'lla- tional communist conspiracy.\ (Forget freedom: Four Seasons By Paul Sherwin The breath first taken is our first image Of truth; it comes succubus-like to flesh That darling egg in us before the mind Can hoist a guide rope for reality. The invaded mind eyes that quick advance As particles of sense, undistinguished, Push in perverse supposal through the brain Whose being is with monsters in the dream. The miscast season of youth whose image Of truth is but a parrot for that flesh Which, bone and sinew, denigrates its mind And makes of movement all reality. Through excessive wine-gath'ring lips advance The substances of dream undistinguished and unbeautied against its pillow's brain Where sleeps that dare inherent in the dream Middle-age, like Solomon, weds image With its bowels, marries the darling flesh Of strangers, and h(}pe's to tease the mind With an orange-cup of reality. Dishonored by the faithful advance Of moments that leave life undistinguished, It authors for the evil of its brain The feline leisure of history's dream. The last breath taken claims death all image And makes a nettle's innocence of flesh Though lips throw· kisses at the moon and mind The true illusion of reality. Joshua could command the sun to cease advance But for an hour; and time, undistinguished, Save for its hairs, blasts ever in the brain And claims the grave our daughter in the dream. it has neve1· been an iss·ue: Neither the VC, nor General Ky have shown any desire for it at all.) This fear has blinded us to the true situation in Vietnam, namely that if we are interested on containing Communist China, the Vietnamese nationalists .(led by Ho Chi Minh) are our stJ•ongest potential allie;;. It i.s a well-known fact that they ha\·e no great lo\'e for the Chinese who have been the great imperialists of the area fur a thousand years. Fm thet·nwre, if the 'C'nited S~ates' only interest is in aiding the development of the countrr, we should surely ;;top trying to work through Saigon which has had a fine record of graft and inefficiency. (Our fears of VC take- O\'el' of any coalition H'~lll to indicate a belief that they are more eiTcctive.) with nil the other factions in South Vietnam. Incredible Naivete ~eithe'r holds water. The first, is pure asser- tion with no documentary proof. And even if it wet·e true, it in n0 way indicates why we shouldn't deal with them if such dealings might lead to peace. The second, with its inferrence that there i's no essential difference between the VC and the Hoa Hao, the Cao Dai, the Dai Viet Political Party or any other faction, shows incredible naivete. The \'C control m0re land and as many people as the Saigen government. It can hardly be classed with the other factions. . ~i.th Amel\imn paranoia what it h; today, thl're J,; httle chanc~ that this will be done. We mu:;t, however, do snnwthin~. ::'\~:crotiati<>n i·s the word we hear in Wnshingtnn. J~•hn.;on proudly pro- daims that he will talk with any government any- where. But he refust•s to deal with the :'-rational Libet·ation Front, the political arm of the VC. We are told that thL• rea·son is two-fold. First it is not independent and relies for directions' upon Hanoi and Peking. The ,.;erond is that if we were to deal with the 1'\LF', we would have to deal American policy is based upon neither self-in- terest nor principle. It is based upon fea1·, handed down in ever-growing pruportio·ns frem adminis- tration to administration. The 'C'nited States finds it,elf in an awkward position. But this means that we should change it, not c0ntinue it. Only by making the hard dedsions now, by recogniz- ing the actual situation, can we salvage any- thing in South-east Asia. To change our policy is not to become isolationist or to repeat Munich, as some have suggested. It is to make the most we can of a world which was not designed with American foreign policy in mind. ~\-n attack agaiJ.?-st an \ene_my objective\ is launched by tough Army National Guard mfantry troops m preparatiOn for the \real thing\ in Viet Nam. Beat Poetry: Roots Blast Shallow An.d Deep By Robin Bell The Beat Scene, ed. Elias Wilentz; Corinth Books Inc. Howl: Kaddish: Reality Sand- wiches, Allen Ginsberg; City Lights Press. Love Poems: Poems of Hu- mour and Protest, Kenneth Patchen; City Lights Press. The Dead Lecturer,. Leroi Jones; Grove Press. The Happy Birthday of Death, Gregory Corso; N.D. Paper- back. Beat Poetry, ever since it came into prominence not so very many years ago has caused a flu-rry in the library wm·ld. For the fickle reading public, the beats are now old hat and are more or less for- gotten. Beat poetry suffered from being totally identified with the wild, angry, confused ethics of the writers them- selves and, worse still, of their motley sycophantic followers. Attacks on be<at poetry there- fore have tend€d to be sweep- ing condemnations which do not deal with the poetry as poetry. Much of beat poetry smacks of the plaintive self-conscious- ness of a neurotic clown who has crept backstage to try to restore reality by scrawling unconstructively dirty words on the most public wall he can find. At its best, however, beat poetry can be brisk, fresh and wonderfully sensitive; it is at once brash, noisy and ag- gressive, and yet delicate, poignant and full of pathos. \The Beat Scene\ is a col- lection of photographs and poetry from the beat world. It is more interesting as a book of photograph portraits than as a book of serious poe- try. All the usual beat gang j:tre represented along with several Jesser characters. As an introductory book it might serve well enough, but the poetry has a depressing same- ness to it. Ginsberg The books of individual poets available in The Cam- pus Bookstore form, on the whole, are far more worthwhile reading. Time and space pre- vent me from giving more than a cursory glance at each of these. Allen Ginsberg's 'Howl,' 'Kaddish' and 'Reality Sandwiches' are full of solid prototype self-conscio11S beat material. The highpoints of his work are quite impressive; the poem 'Howl' is charged with power and tension and there is a careful studied structure behind its blunt vigor. 'To Aunt Rose' has sharp, piercing, poignant im- agery and a delicate balance which would come out well in any company of poetry 'Aeth- er,' ho,wever, has all the beat tricks, gimmicks and cliches piled one upon the ·other: the effect is irritating, weak and scrappy. Kenneth Patchen's poetry consists largely of extremely finely-wrought wistful love poems. His writing is intro- verted and almost painfully hypersensitive. He can show a guick turn of humour, how- ever, as he does in 'The Little Cannibal's Bedtime Song.' Economy of language and c'arity of expression are not the attributes of most beat verse. It is exciting, then, to read Leroi Jones' powerful, vivid poems and _:fjnd how dy- namic and vital beat poetry can be. 'The Dead Lecturer' has an enduring quality about it, which is lacking in the work of most o.f Leroi Jones' con- temporaries. Representative Poem If one poem has to be sin- gled out to represent all that is best in this genre of poetry, perhaps it should be Gregory Corso's 'Mardage' from his hook. 'The Happy Birthday of Death.' Corso is an infuriat- ingly uneven poet--he is cap- able of stumbling around on the page as though overcome by the embarrassm€n.t of a typewriter keyboard-here, at hts best, in 'M·arriage,' he cap- tlLI'es his reader entirely, and runs him through a whole whirling range of emotions be- fore setting him down a slight- 1y dazed admirer. Corso, like most of his fellow beats is obsessed with death; un'like them, he is not morbid, but exud€S wit a:nd vitality. The initial shock-wave of beat poetry is long past. It is time for a dispassionate reap- praisal. Much of what has been written can be discarded: there remains, however, some that is a viable artiS>tic crea- tion in style and perennially relevant in content. Reale's LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Boulevard Bowl Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere 32 AMF BOWLfNG LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Dark Room Supplies- Jewelry- Gifts- Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. -Sat. ll A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917

4 Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body ot Union C<>llege, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- ti<>nal Advertising Representative National Advertising Service, Inc .. College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. E:dHonal Office. Uld Gym, Union College. Publkatlon Office, S~he­ neotady Printing Company, 602 Broadway. Entered In the Sche· neotauy Post Office as Second Class Mall !\latter. Subscription 16c a copy: lSi a year delivered anywhere tn the United States. BARHY Nli:Wl\JA!\' ·,:; JEFFREY SPECTOH 'GO. li!ARK KASO\-VITZ 'G7 l\IORTY KA~IZA:S '67. i>ENIOR BOAIID 3l•i-99 :;~ ... .. Bdltut·-iu-Chief . ROBERT STOLZBEI\G 'ti7 ......... .. ANDY COLB '67 ................. .. PAtiL SHERWIN '67 ...... .. HE:-:RY FEHGUSON 'jO. .: 7:. 11 ~~ :· BuslrH'l-1~\< :\•lanagpr ........ :Hanaging Editor ... .... :\'ews Bdi1or ....... Feature Editor ..... Sports Editor .. Literary Editor ....... Faculty Advisor J C'\10){ llO,\IUl Jost>pll -.iiaun \t~---- Donald Schwartz '6\; ........ . Robert H.osenthal '67 .. . Jaek Etkin '6S SteYC?Il A1·koff '•i 7 Kenneth Bousquet '68 ..................... . .\~~~~lant ::'\PW~ Edit'ur ......... Assistant Literary Editor ................... Subscription ~lanager .. ~ational Advt\'rttsmg !\'lnnuger .... Circulation l\'lanager ......................... Photography Editor In Collusion • • • The mechanism for choosing the new editor of Con- cordiensis is atrocious. When the mechanism itself is abused, the newspaper can come close to disaster. Last week, it came close. It is difficult to believe that any student press would submit for so long to a misdirected, blunudering and value- less method of staff transition which is explicitly designed to prevent the newspaper from determining its own future. Concordiensis has submitted because the Publications Se- leetions Committee, or whatever it is called, has always been a rubber stamp for the previous editor's choice. The committee could hardly purport to be any more than a rubber stamp. Its majority is composed of people who have nothing whatsoever to do with the newspaper, or any other campus publication - people who are placed on the committee, not on the basis of any qualification under the sun, but probably because nobody else bothered to apply. Once a year they gather to listen for an hour or two to hear the candidates for the editorship-the most taxing and most influential student office at Union. This is their one and only contact with the newspaper, and yet, as the majority, they hold the power to dictate the paper's course for the next year. If they wanted to, they could make anybody editor. You see, the \code\ of the Publications Selections Com- mittee indicates that no experience is really needed to run a newspaper. Of course. this premise is well founded and absolutely correct-no experience is necessary to run a newspaper into the ground. Most of the time the commit- tee's members realize that they are ignorant, and follow the recommendations of the outgoing editor who, after a year of experience, ought to know at least a little more about the responsibilities and the requirements of the edi- torship. Most of the time the committee's members enter the discussions with open minds which are supposed to be free of personal prejudice, according to the document in the Student Activities files that gives a nebulous outline of the committee's purpose. Most of the time the commit- tee performs as a deliberative body which exists to check any major flaws in the editor's design. It is not expected to make newspaper policy, and it is not expected to confer outside the meeting room. But this year, the Publications Selections Committee was given a mind. The mind had an idea; which seems to have developed well before the candidates were interviewed last Wednesday afternoon. It was a good idea, something which the newspaper had been trying to do for a long time - remove ConcOI·diensis from the full control of Phi Epsi- lon Pi Fraternity. Naturally, the editor-in-chief was not informed of the idea. He would be against it anyway, and surely has never given it a moment's thought. No, it would be much better for the Committee to plan its own attack for breaking Phi Ep's unuwanted hold. ·rhe members probably thought and thought for a long time, and finally came up with a marvelous strategy. Why not get somebody - anybody - who has worked on Con- cordiensis less than most Freshmen members of the staff, and elect him editor? That would be a fine way of break- ing the stranglehold on the newspaper, with one well- placed blow. Shouldn't the editor have some experience? uf course not, all he has to do is give orders. The Publications Selections Committee tried its plan, and save for one dissenter, came shockingly close to rail- roading through its candidate. Conc01·diensis was saved from a catastrophe this year, but if this incident is any indication, the Committee could be more successful next year. The process of transition must be altered now, be- fore another round of mindless conniving forces Concordi- ('DSis to sever its bonds with this campus. Two I~ Search Of The Crowd By Clifford Safane lt is a sorry thing when a musici-an doesn't get the rec- ognition that he deserves. This has happened .quite often in the jazz world. A musician may be taken fQr granted for his ent·ire life, having only a small handful of listener's. Only when he dies, does the musician finally achieve the r<>cognition that he deserves. Up-tempo Pianist Phineas Newborn, Jr., is one such underrated musician. This fine pianist is now living quiet- ly in Southern California, oc- casionally playing in local clubs. Newborn, who has an exceptional piano technique, is a superb improviser on up- tempoed tunes. In fact, I would ss,y that when playing at a fast tempo, he is just about the top jazz pianist in the country. (The only other musician who can even com- pare to Newborn in this field is Oscar Peterson). No other pianist can ad ILb with both hands held two octaves apart. A good example of this is \Oleo found on the album, A World of Piano ( Contem- porary M3600). On the same album, Phineas takes a Charlie Parker blues called \Cheryl\ at a fairly fast tempo. What makes the per- formance so ·special is that Phineas plays much of the piece using block chords. As a jazz pianist, I can confirm that b!ock chording is difficult at any tempo. Playing such chords at an up-tempo, as Phineas does, is something to marvel at. Emotional Value Besides possessing an amaz- ing technique, Phineas is cap- able of projecting emD<tion into his playing. This quality is not always present; Phineas occassionally has the tendency to play mechanically. Hap- pily, this occure very rarely. On the World of Piano al- bum, Phineas plays a moving version of Billy Strayhorn's \Lush Life.'' The tune is play- ed in a delicate and romantic style. One admirable feature of Phineas's performance is his use of Ravel's \Sonatine. in the introducti-on. This creat~s a great emotional effect. Clark Terry is another jazz musician who has been under- rated by the jazz public. Only lately has Terry sta1·ted to gain some ·Of the recognition he deserves. This is due in a large part to Terry's record- ing of \Mumbles found· on the album, The Oscar Peterson Trio Plus One (Mercury 20975). Terry is a very versatile mu- sucian. He plays show music, rock and roll, and commercial jingles, as well '<lS jazz. Yet Terry has a very individualis- tic style. One of his many characteristics is his frequent use of grace notes. This adds a humorous effect to the mu- sic. Two goocl examples of Ter- ry's use of grace notes can be founil on ''Dancing on the Grave,\ from The Power of Positive Swinging: The Clark Terry-Bob Brookmeyer Quin- tet (M-ainstream 560·54), anrl \Blues for Smedley,\ on the Oscar Pett'rson Trio Plus One album. (It should also be mentioned that throughout the gecond a-lbum, Peterson plays some sparkling piano). In fact, this la;st album is a show- case for Terry, Anyone inter- t'Sted in his work should own it. Terry's vocal abilities should also be noted. On \Mumbles which was popularized by Soupy Sales, Terry goes into a wild parody of hlues sing- ers. His incessant mumblings are done so skillfully that one can swear Terry is speaking. It is a most enjoyable piece. Phineas Newborn, Jr., and Clark Terry are only two mu- sicians to whom the public should pay more attention. They are simply two examples. It would be Vf!l'Y beneficial to jazz if we tried to recognize the men who have unselfishly contributed to the a'l\t while receiving so little attention. Communion Bruce Clements will serve Communion in the \Free Church\ tradition on Wednes- days during Lent. It is open to all members of the college community. Friday, Mctrch 4, 1966 Fresh~nen Tours Wild West By Marshall Tl,lurber The three month summer vacation provides endless op- portunities for the college student. For some, it is a time for relaxation; fo1• others it is a time to help pay :fo1: 11art of their college educa- tion; and for a few res.tless in- dividuals, it is a time to wan- der-a time to see the country from the road. Alan Miller, a freshman here at Union, had this rest. less spirit last summer. After considerable effort, both he and a similarly inclined friend were able to persuade their parents to let ·them travel across the country during tl1e summer months. The parents outfitted the two sub-freshmen with a 78,000 miles old Vo.lkswagen, a set of sleeping blankets, a specially equipped baJioon-type tent, and a limited number of traveler's checks . There were many motivat- ing factors .behind our Union student's desire to travel across the country. The most obvious course was his wish to see the country. Pi~tsburgh, Memphis, New Orleans, Mex.,. ico, Texas, Las Vegas, San Francisco, Yellowstone, Ni.a· gara, etc., etc., were all in~ eluded in his tour. Other Advantages Yet, there were Je;ss blatant advantages to his trip. It gave Mill-er his first real chance to be on his own, to act without paxent;a,l guidance. For the first time he had to be conscious of his finances, plan his daily activities, wash his own clothes, and pitch his own tent. No -one was there to tell him nm. to drink too much beer or to get his date home ea1·ly. It was totally 1.1p to Alan Miller to make these decisions. Union'.s student in err-and has many vivid memories. Once, he spent a:ll day in an orchard near .santa Barbara, California, picking lemons. Another time, he rented a surf- board and rode t.he giant l'a- ·Cific waves; he also slept all night on the famous white beach of the Barl>ery Coast; and he became stranded in a ·sma.ll, dust-ridden Texas town Barry Goldwater's boxer dog, Cyclone II, roams around his master's Arizona home. when he had an accident with the Volkswagen. One particular event that stands out in Miller's mind was his trip to Goldwater's home in Arizona. Debbie, a female friend, was a:ble to take him on a guided tour through the conserv·ati ve politician's home. Debbie's fathe~· ·iS< a YeTy close friend of Mr. Gold~ wateT and despite the fact that the Arizona palitician was not at home, they were able ta spend the en-tit·e day there. Galdwater has a boxer dog named Cyclone II. The dog evid- ently had had a~ one time a large hole in one of his front teeth, but Goldw-ater solved the problem. Cyclone 11 now has a gold filled front tooth. On Thursday. August 12th, at 12:30 P.M. our Union Col- lege freshman arrived back at his home in Essex, Connecticut . He had traveled 15,625 miles in forty-eight clays (an aver- <>ge of 325 . miles per day), Moreover, MiH'e1• spent only $250 on the enth•e trip if one does not include the car acci• dent and the lost Nil~en \F\ camera. In Men1oriam Hark, oh hark, for the Aard~ vack's bark And the scanda.l is over the town. Greenland has entered the soe- ial milieu And Dick Whittakers grey cat has drowned. So batten the :hatches then fas- ten the foist For the color of crap i's still brown. Ditfo While busy OIL 'hi·s latest and greatest missi()n, Cas-sanova Sludge, super-duper sleuth, met his death this :wee'k. The en- tire s-taff of Concordy joins with the Colle·ge .and mhe world in their oorro-w. II Have astronauts made pilots old hat? Sure, the boys who go off the \pads\ get the big, bold headlines. But if you want to fly, the big opportunities are still with the aircraft that take off and land on several thousand feet of runway. Who needs pilots? T AC does. And MAC. And SAC. And ADC. There's a real future in Air Force flying. In years to come aircraft may fly higher, faster, and further than we dare dream of. But they'll be flying, with men who've had Air Force flight training at the controls. Of course the Air Force also has plenty of jobs for those who won't be flying. As one of the world's largest and most advanced research and develop- ment organizations, we have a continuing need for scientists and engineers. Young college graduates in these fields will find that they'll have the opportunity to do work that is both interesting and important. The fact is, nowhere will you have greater latitude or responsibility right /rom the start than on the Aerospace Team- the U.S. Air Force! Interested? The place to find out more is at the office of the Professor of Aerospace Studies, if there is an Air Force ROTC unit on your campus. Ask about the new 2-year AFROTC program avail- able at many colleges and universities. If you prefer, mail the coupon below. ~ ' I I ·~5fSitjf-~- r------------------, 1 Otlicer Career Information, Dept. RCN 62, I 1 BoK A, Randolph A,r Force Bose, Tt:xos 78148 1 I I 1 Name I I Please Print J I Cellege Closs ol 19__ I I Address I I I I Coty State Zip__ I ~------------------J UNITED STATES AIR FORCE .. Fr.iday, Ma1 Hu~ Ful Hugh give up h: First PreE: time mem 1 P1•of. V\ will includ, ' tion.al cours ()Tid glee cl g:ul group. part of the effort to il in musical h.o.ped that groups will Was Prof. Wil sic comes f was a conce was a-n ele tlle son's organ was : graduated j an interdep jor. There Beta Kapp1 harpichordis · ltat•psichord sprb1g. M College Gle perfectionis· , ttnder.\ He will Jl c-ert in 1\< Sunday, Ma 11 Gar The Gam remind sen ' proofs if t·i yet. A c< will be on . Wednesday orders for the proof t \ for the Ga: ' tive will be dlJring theE ,. EAST I 860 V\J F ~ 1 CLE o~ 1 Just 1- City EngineE ers, bri tions, r: auditin4 utility c praisin~ cial wo lytical c CA s

4, 1966 is a Gold~ that was not able ta there. dog evid- time a front the w has a st 12th, Col- back at miles aver- day). only if one acci• \F\ e Aard~ the the soe- cat fas- i's still and met The en- joins world the at the dies, if avail- --, I I j I i I I I I Fr.iday, March 4, 1966 Hugh Allen Wilson Is Full- Tinte App-ointee Hugh Allen Wilson, now Professor of Music, will soon giv€ up his position as organist and choir director of the First Presbyterian Church of Glens Falls to become a full- time member of the faculty of the Music Department. New Duties Congressma,n To Address Union · For Anxious 25's: Term 1 Indices Founders •.• Continued from Page 1 Charles Longstreet Weltner, U. S. The cl-ass indices for last semester this :policy is o-bjectional since i-t im- Congressman from Georgia, will ad- were released t;his week by the Office plies that our country needs no help dress a convocation Monday, March 7. of the Registrar. whatsoever. This feeling is stilt fairly He will speak on \The Ku Klux strong in the U. S. b1:1t rnust be Klan and the American Way of Life\ The senior clas~ index was 2.G77; changed to allow for the needs of in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 P.M. the junuiors had a 2.414 record; the . other countries. Even in the 1930's, Congressman We! tner, a Ilemocrat, sophomores were the lowest with the \Fortress America\ the-<lry was and member of the Rouse Committee 2.266; and the freshman index was held. on Un-American Activities, was born 2.297. Further, Professor Mort<>n felt in Atlanta, Ga., on December 17, 1927. · · • ld f PI•of. Wilson's new duties W k d He received an A.B. degree from Ogle- Seniors dominated the Dean's List America's partiCipatiOn m '\\•or a - will include teaching an addi- ee en e • • thorpe University in 1948 and an with 82 candidates. The Janiors, Soph- fairs is not balanced by hel\ knowl- • tiona! course and dh·ecting a sec- LL.B. from the Columbia University omores, and Freshman were very close edge of foreign co1:1ntries. }[e stated ()Tid glee club ~;],nd a new Madri- School of Law hvo years later. to each other for honors ·with 60, 50, that citizens here are sadly lacking g:al group. Hig. appointment is Continued from Page 1, Col. 3 He served on active duty as a first and 58 students respectively on Dean's in their Jmowledge of Old World his- part of the Music Department's \We had fourteen policemen, lieutenant in the U. S. Army for two List. tory, but that the ethnocentric or effort to involve more students which 1 ·s adequate protection,\ years. He is a practicing attorney and \Europocentrk\ view of history is · 1 f It · · th f th f f h'ld The All-Mens indPx for the previous d' · iu mus1ca per ormance. JS Cos'tel·Io contm' ued. \There were IS e · a er o our c 1 ren. ISappearmg. 11 C W lt I te1·m \vas 2.!39(). The All-Fratern·ity p f M t I f 11 · b .. o.ped that sti more performing no 1 ·nc1 'de 11 ts 1 -epoi•ted to me. How- ongressman · e ner was e ected . d h t b 1 1 ro essor or on spo 'e o owmg a t th 88 th C m ex as no as yet een ca cu ated. b' h' 1 R b t p t ~-roups will hP formed. eve 1 ·, the chapel will get some ·o e · , ongress on November 6, 10grap 1ca paper on o 91' or er wear. and tear with 1400 people 1962. He was re-elected to the 89th Patterson, which was delivered by 5 Was Music Major in it' who are having a good Congress in November, 1964. Prof. Manfred Jonas. Prof. Wilson'·s inbere·st in mu- time.\ He did admit, though, that ~~~~~~~============--~-=-=-=--~--~~~=~--~-~-~~~~;:;-~~~~-=-;:-:-:-:··;;-;;-~~~~;@~§ji~§~~=~~~~===:::~ s-ic comes from his mother, who there were scuff marks on some Seminar p~ ocuses on C E was a concert pianist. His father of the back pews. • • was an electrical engineer, and ll1e son's first interest in the organ was a mechanical one. He· graduated from Yale College as an interdepartmental music ma- jor. There he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He is a concert harpichordist and hopes to do a ' lta!•psichord concert here this sprb1g. Members of the Union College Glee Club te1·m his \a perfectionist but pleasant to work · under.\ ' .. He will perform an organ con- c-ert in Memorial Chapel this Sunday, March 6, at 8:15 P.M. Garnet Proofs John Clarkeson, a con·sulting engineer and Union graduate, ad- D.U. Snow's Best dressed the Union College engineering scemina-r on Monday, Feb. 28. He has been in the consulting field since 194~ and possesses a Delta Upsilon Fraternity won broad kowledge of major highway construction. His work in the de- the interfraternity snow sculpture signing of scenic highways has earned him national recognition for contest during Winter Weekend five consecutive years in a competition sponsored by Parade Maga-' with its gorilla holding a sign zine. In his address, Mr. Clarkeson emphasized the challenge of de- · which read ANIMAL SHELTER, cision-making, stre·ssing the importance of exploring all alterna- I and pointed to the house. The tives before making a decision. It is beneficial to understand not 1 dean is said to have suggested only why a project succeeds but also why it may not. the idea. Effects of Society Several fraternities paid the Mr. Clarkson also stressed the necessity of enginee1·s concern- flve-doilar entry fee and built a ing themselves with the effects that society wHI have on a project. sculpture. The judges were Mr. Mr. Clarkeson mentioned the benefits of \inter-disciplinary team, Bruce Clements, Instructor in approach\ which would bl'ing together ideas of personnel in variolis English, Mrs. Clements, his wife, fields who may make significant contributions. I Mr. John Sinton, Instructor in Students React History, and Mrs. Sinton. Professor Des F01~ges stated \My reaction to the seminar was_ most positive; Mr. Clarkeson's disting·uished backgrounud and vast 1 ' For three Generations • Those Who Know Have been recommending - HERSHEl MAURICE 8, WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. The Garnet staff would like to remind seniors to pick up their Phi Delta Theta ran a close experience &'ave authority to hi's views and recommendations. The second with its fratmobile com- questions rmsed throughout the seminar indicated a profound interest ing out of a fraternity cave. on the part of students in. the suubject matter. Mr. Cla1·keson was Other entries included Sigma favorably impressed by the reactions of students to his talk.\ Phi's bar with two drunlt's, Alpha -----------------------------~~~~~=~=~~=~======~===~~~~~~~ Delta Phi's Uncle Sam, Sigma · Chi's Mr. and Mrs. Snowman, and FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ' proofs if t-hey have not done so yet. A company representative Delta Chi's nebbish. will be on campus Tuesday and' ;=============. Wednesday next week to take orders for pictures and to collect the proof that you have selected .. for the Garnet. The representa- ' tive will be in Hale House lounge during these days. Employment in the Rochester, New York area. Many goocl companies in the Rochester area (Central-Western New York) do not interview on col- lege campuses. They offer em- ployment opportunities in all fields including management training in the administrative, technical and engineering dis- ciplines. Most placements are fee paid. If you are interested please write to .. ' ,. .. - EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 Mr. John Cherrington Plaza Personnel 425 Midtown Tower Rochester, N. Y. 14604 CLEAN CLOTHES LAST LONGER 2 or More S H I R T S •••• 22¢ ea. Sport JACKETS & T R 0 U S E R S ••• 49¢ ea. Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-ST93 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Natio.ncal Bank City of Detroit . • • OPPORTUNITIES IN Engineering design and construction of streets, sew- ers, bridges, water treatment plants, pumping sta- tions, pipelines and muncipal buildings; budgeting, auditing, systems analysis, cost analysis and public u.tility accounting; real and personal property ap- praising; purchasing; personnel; public housing; So- cial work; recreation and physical education, Ana- lytical and control chemistry. CAMPUS INTERVIEWS MARCH 10, 1966 See your Placement Office for an appointment Engineers and Scientists: Let's talk about a career at Boeing .... 50-year leader in aerospace technology Campus Interviews Friday, March 11 The most effective way to evaluate a com- pany in terms of its potential for dynamic: career growth is to examine its past rec- cnd, its current status, and its prospects and planning for the future, together with the professicna I climate it offers for the development of your individual capabif.ities. Boeing, which in 1966 completes 50 years of unmatched aircraft innovation and pro- duction, offers you career opportunities as diverse as its extensive and varied back· log. Whether your interests lie in the field of commercial jet airliners of the flllllre or in space-flight technology, you ca11 find at Boeing an opening which combines profes- sional challenge and long-range stability. The men of Boeing are today pioneering evolutionary advances in both civilian and military aircraft, as well as in space pro- gra_ms of such historic importance as America's first moon landing. Missiles, space vehicles, gas turbine engines, trans- port helicopters, marine vehicles and basic research are other areas of Boeing activity. There's a spot where your talents can mature and grow at Boeing, in research, design, test, manufacturing or administra- tion. The company's position as 'World leader in jet transportation provhles a measure of the calibre of people with whom you would work. In addition. BCJeing people work in small groups, where initia- tive and ability get maximum exposure. Boeing encourages participation ill the company-paid Graduate Study Program at leading colleges and universities near company installations. We're looking forward to meeting engi- neering, mathematics and science seniors and graduate students during our vi sit to your campus. Make an appointment now at your placement office. Boeing is an equal opportunity employer. (11 Boeing's new short-range 737 jetliner. (2) Variable-sweep wing design for the nation!s first supersonic commercial jet tra11sport. (3) NASA's Apollo/Saturn V will power orbital and deep-space flights. (4) Model of lunar Orbiter Boeing is building for NASA. (!i)Bcleing- Vertol 107 transport helicopter show11 with Boeing 707 jetliner. BOEING Divisions: Commercial Airplane • Military Airplane • Missile & Information Systems • Space • Turbine • Vertol • Also, Boeing Scientific Research LaboratQries

PHYSICS PROBE Concordy Page 3 Sports VIETNAM BLAST Page 2 Garnet Grapplers Rout Alfred; End Season With 5-2 Record By Walt Baxter Cagers Trip .Hamilton; Fi.nish 8-13 ·swimmers Upset Trinity; Backstroke Mark Set By Don Scholl Dick Siers swam to a new pool record in the 200 y;a'l:d backliltroke an~ coach Bob Benson used his swimmers to perfection to highlight Umon's. 6~-31 apset '-:\ictory over Trinity in a meet held Wednesday. Umon s expectatiOn's, for the meet were at best a narrow victory The Union vars-ity basketb-all but Bensmfs strategic placement of key swimmers was responsible . team ended its season on a hap- for the w1de margin of victory. Trinity's outstanding freestyler · py note with victories over RPI Dave Tyler W?~ two ev~nts as Union swa;n just ·strong enough to ':(73-63) and Rami~tm (77-66) second an_d. thu4 places m. both events. Umon's good swimmers then and compHed an 8-13 ove1·all rec- swept Trmrty r1ght out of the pool events in Which 'Tyler and Ed . ord. Bacon, another star Bantam, did not appear. In the RPI contest, Union lost , Union:s medley relay of Dick Siers, Norm Dovberg, Jay Craw- . fold and J1m Mogal got the Garnet a 7-0 lead that was never headed. The Union varsity wrestling team closed out its regular sea- so.n on a winning note last Sat- urday with a 37-0 rout of Al- fred. The win gave the Garnet '' 5-2 re-cord for the year, with the only defeats coming at the hands of RPI and powerful Col- gate. The Garnet's la-st winn,ing season was in 1961--2 when they c(,mpiled a 5-3 mark. On Satur- day, March !i, the team Jmrtici- pates in the IC'AC Championships at Hobart. the ball ten times in the first B~con and Tyler won ~he ~ext two ev~nts but Dick Amesbury and four minutes, but the Engineers ~Ill Porter, the latter m hts first vars 1 ty appearance, captured the .. did not capitalize on it. With important second places. Union then shut out the Bantams in the Jim Derrick ,hitting four for !lext three.eyents as Dick Coyrigan and Fred Fagal finished one two four and Urbelis thrf'e for four m the In~Ivlcju~l medley, Chps Cassels and Scott Muirhead repeated from the floor, the Garnet fought the feat m d1vmg and Corr1gan teamed with Jay Crawford to take tc a 35-35 tie by halftime. Later the 200 fly, giving Union a commanding 38-.14 lead. Commenting on the squad's performance, Coach Allison stat- erl that he was generally satis- fied. His pre-season goal har heen a u-1 record but a close loss to RPI ended these hopes. Col- gate had been reaJi.stically writ- ten .off before the start of the ~eason. Large Turnout Factor Allison cited the relatively large turnout for the varsity as a major factor in the team's suc- cess. With a large number of men on the squad, competition for regular berths was keen and the sq_uad's attitude wa·s impl·ov- Pd. Lee Frye, (7-0), a sopho- more, was the squad's leading scorer, with 29 points out of a possible 35. The performance of sophomores Ron Iannoti ( 6-1), PAUL BOOR (top picture) attempts a half-nelson against Hobart opponent. DALE SCH~EIDER (bottom picture) pius RPI foe. good team. He will lose Jan I man team: Tom Tripp, Jeff Kur- Werner (4~3), Da;le Schneider zius, Ken Merz, Richard Rose- (5-2), and Gordon Lisker (4-1), ner, and Frank D'Antuono. but there are five excelleutt pros-1 Tripp, Kurzius, and Merz were pects coming up from the fresh-. undefeated. and Paul Boor (2-0-2) assured the Garnet of a successful sea- Bask tb [[ Sta f • t • son, as the squad's other seven e a IS JCS members were proven veterans. Every Garnet regular had a win- ning reconL Player G Greg Olson ---------20 Union has an eX'cellent chance Bill Neidel ----------20 of capturing team honors in Sat- Fitz Turner ---------19 urday's tournament. \Union and Tom Urbelis --------17 AI Hrdlicka ----------19 RPI have to be the favorites Ron Giancola --------17 with Clarkson a dark horse,\ ac- Tad Knight __________ 19 cording to Coach Allison. Alli- Bill Boehm -----------15 son pointed out that predicting Bill Priscott ---------- 19 Jim Derrick -----------14 especially risky because each Dave Kasper _________ 18 squad member may be forced to Dan Gestwick _________ 11 tl th ]] • t h Bob Seefried _________ 1 0 ;n('S e ree. grue .mg ma· c es 1 Jim Williams ________ s ll1 one day, mcreasmg the pos- . Dave Werkhoven _____ 7 M- 110 108 58 60 49 37 39 39 16 15 14 6 3 I 0 Field All 244 241 121 164 110 91 78 82 59 53 49 9 11 J 1 sibility of upsets. ----- Goals Pet 45.1 44.8 47.9 36.6 44.5 40.7 50.0 47.6 27.1 28.3 28.6 66.7 27.3 33.3 33.3 Free Throws Rebounds M- All Pet No Avo No 76 118 64.4 96 4.8 296 63 75 84.0 155 7.8 279 47 68 69.1 138 7.3 163 3 30 10.0 71 4.2 123 23 36 63.9 37 1.9 121 33 59 55.9 91 5.4 107 27 42 64.3 83 4.4 105 23 41 56.1 65 4.3 101 17 30 56.7 21 1.1 49 9 13 69.2 29 2.1 39 6 9 66.7 21 1.2 34 3 4 75.0 8 0.7 15 1 2 50.0 2 0.2 7 0 1 4 0.8 2 1 2 50.0 2 0.3 1 Points Ave 14.8 14.0 8,6 7.2 6.4 6.3 !>.5 6.7 2.6 2.8 1.9 1.4 0.7 0.4 0.1 Team Rebounds 16() B.O Looking ahead to next year,: Union Totals -----------20 555 1316 42.2 332 530 62.6 983 49.2 1442 72.1 Allison ex.pects to have another Oap. Tolals ----·------20 592 1353 43.8 332 530 62.6 983 48.5 1549 77.5 I I I Five ideal dates. Three dollars( 5 3) Join in the most adventurous experiment of our time. Opera- tion Match. Let the IBM 7090 Computer (the world's most perfect matchmaker) stamp out blind dates for you. Two Harvard juniors started it. 100,000 students have done it. Now you and 3,400,000 college students in 1500 colleges in 50 cities can sign up and join in! . Just send us the coupon. We'll send you the Operation Match Quantitative Personality Projection Test pronto! Then return the questionnaire with $3.00. What you're like and what you like will be translated into our 7090's memory file. It will scan the qualifications of every member of the opposite sex from this geographic area. Then it will select the five or more matches best for you. You'll receive your names, addresses and telephone numbers within three weeks. You'll be what your date is looking for. Your date will be what you are looking for. In other words: the matches will be mutual. ---------------- Dear IBM 7090~ I am 17 or over (and 27 or under) and I want to help stamp out blind dates. So mail me my questionnaire. Quick[ Name School Address City State Zip Code Operation Match Compatability Research, Inc. ~I I_ 671 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts ·n the second half, with Union Siers Assures Victory leading, 64-60, RPI was called . Tyler took the hundred freestyle in 51.3 seconds but Siers? effort for a technical foul. Neidel con- m the back.stroke, yvas .03 s_econds better than the previous record, verted the foul shot, ::u,d the ~ssured Umon of VIctory. D1ck Amesbury and Norm Dovberg added Garnet then made a field goal Impetus to the win by winning the 500 yard freestyle and. the 200 to pull ahead by seven, 67-60. yard breastroke respectively. They went on to avenge an ear- Ephmen Triumph lier 73-63 loss to the Engineers.· Last Saturday Williams College's varsity swimmers walloped Greg Olson led the Dutchmen the Dutchmen 65-30 in a meet that produced seven record breaking with eighteeen points. performances by th~ host team. B~ckstroker Bill Williams led' off the medley relay wtth a 56.6 clocking to break the New England Against Hamilte>n, the Dutch- IntercoHegiate Swimming Association record for one hundred yards men broke into an early 18-13 The relay foursome, which also included Ted Sears John Rider and lead after ten 111inutes. How- J!m Ryan! set a new pool an~ school standard of 3:46.4. Bob Rodger, ever, Hamilton rebounded by d1ver Ch:t\ls Gardner, and M1ke Stevens also set school records and scoring eight straight points, and the Willia~s freest~rle relay added a pool record to the Jist as the with seven minutes remaining in Ephmen trmmphed m every event. the first half, Hamilton led, 21- 19. Derrick •swred ten of the Garnet's eighteen points in the final seven minutes to put Un- i'Dn ahead, 39-38, by halftime. \---- The second half was a see~saw affair until 3:39 remaining when, wi·th the Garnet lea.ding, 67-64, the Dutchmen reeled off ten straight points. Ron Giancola scored seven of the ten points. The Garnet held on to the lead in the final minute to win, 77-64. twelve from the line. They out- rebounded Hamilton, 57-42, as Neidel grabbed fifteen and Turner twelve rebounds. Of the twenty- eight offensive rebounds, Union tallied on twelve of them. In the first half of this season, the Garnet did not jell at all. They won only two of their first twelve games, defeating Middle- bury, 71-68, and MIT in the Christmas ~~oliday Tournament, 88-74. In the second semester, Union won six of nine games, in- tluding five of the last six home contests. season the lack of a leader (\We nee~ed a. Gary Brown\) \sopho- monc m1stakes,\ and key injur- ies to Giancola, Urbelis, and Boehm. The Garnet averaged about twenty-five tul'llovers a p 1 1-t~ game which hurt the team's I I.,.. chances immensely. Fitz Turner led the Garnet with fifteen pDints. Neidel chipped in four.teen, Giancola eleven (all in the second half), <:md Derrick ten. Tad Knight piayed an aggressive game and scored eight points. Bill Ern- strom for Hamilton was the top scorer in the game with twenty- four. The Garnet shot 35-83 from the floor and seven for Coach Evans praised sopho- ,.,..,0 and Tad Knight for their fine ..1.. ~ mores Bill Neidel, Fitz Turner, 'I•. work during the s·eason. He also '· · \ E cited juniors Greg Olson and AI Vt Hrdlicka for their aggressive This was a very dis·appointing season for Coach Evans, as he had hoped for a little better than a .500 season. EYans named as contributing factors in the losing p.a.y during the year. Next seas(>n with more experi- ence and less sophomoric mis- takes, Coach Evans is expecting a much better season. He com- mented, \If they believe they can .,; win, we'll have a good season.\ The Fa ad hoc co. uata the education DU!ring the Curri' mitted a the prese ment. This re ed by Wi letics at 1 mittee on to change The iss of the h quiremen1 three-thr€ effect ne:l' The Co recommer refer the ~~ general d: cil formE (Cc Fir . c. Greet. yet another season, if you are a musketeer of undaunted devotion, with vel- ours of the sort seen in sport- ing shirts. Deep, dramatically coloured, this is the royal stuff of adventure! on The A ·need onl 'body ref; to becom munity ! As a~ cognizes rt College intended tions of · cies in i by Presi, Und DAVE'S The Cl animGusl Oouncil, the Stu( Faculty ulrty, an< visions f mula ted §quir~ ~lJnp :t( 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 ,. Ed Cl: tutional Student creation is both \I feel dynamic ion Coli serve a, the coUe th~ All ated to

• back:otroke highlight victory responsible frees tyler enough to then and Ed Jay Craw- headed. and the in the one two repeated to take effort record, b!lrg added nd. the 200 s walloped breaking led' off England yards. Rider, and Rodger, and list as the (\We \sopho- key injur- and averaged a he team's sopho- their fine Turner, He also '· and AI aggressive experi- mis- expecting He com- they can ~ season.\ Bands, Booze, Broads and Girls. Blow by Blow Description of the Grand Debacle on Page 3. II --------------------------------- Physical Ed. To Undergo ~~Evaluation By Michael Klim]JJ The Faculty Councrll has f uz metl Dli ad hoc commHtee to di·scuss and e•,al· uats the College's :present physical education program. DU!ring a councH meeting last week, the Curricula Aff.airs Committee sub· mitted a recomme·ndation to maintain the present three year gym require- ment. This rec()mmendation was support- ed by Wilford Re.tz, Directo1· of Ath- ;tt letics at Union, ·and the F·aculty Com- 1 1. mittee on Athletics who saw no reason to change the :program. The issue was brought up because of the large amount of course re- quirement changes caused by the three-three plan, scheduled to go into effect next fall. ~,· No Vote The Cc>uncil de-clined to vote on the recommen<Latilon, nor did it want to refer the proposal to the fa~ulty for ~~ general discussi()n. Instead, .the Coun- cil formed a committee to consider (Continued on Page 2) Editorial Opinion Page4 Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 95 - No. 19 FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1966 PRICE 15 CENTS S.C. Censures Past Editor The student council ha.s passed a resolution to censure Barry Newman, former editor of the C()ncordiensis, for an editorial which appeared in last week's i-ssuue of the newspaper. The meeting, held Tuesday night, March 8, was devoted entirely to dJs- cuss:ng the mc>tion crilizing Mr. New- man's comments about the Publication Selections Committee and the method by which the editor of Concordiensis was present. Barry Newman was in- vited but declined to attend. The debate in the council center- e{} on the harshne·ss of the proposal is chosen. The resolution was drafted by Mike Berlowitz, who is not a member ef the Council but who was permitted to speak as an \·interested student\. Tom Hitch~ock, chairman of the Committee and the Student Council's jurisdiction in the area. Proponents of the res- olution, printed in it's entirety below, felt that since the Publications Com- mittee is an arm of the Student Council, the council had the right to defend the board and 1t's members. Opponents felt that while the Stu- dent Council <lould defend the con- Newman Questions Council Action To the Students of Uni()ll College: The Student Council has adopted a motion censuring rue for an editorial printed in the last issue of Concordieusis. The governing body of the stud- ents of Union College has requested that I pub.icly acpologize, and :retract certain statements which the members of the Council believe to have been unfitting. The motion further indicates that if I fail to comply, the Council will bring me before the tStudent Discipline Committee for poss~ble punish- ment. The sever1ty of 'thi.s motion implies that my editorial deeply offended some individuals. I regret these unintended and unexpected consequences of my wdtings. My purpose in composing the piece was to point up ce~rtain deficiencies in the system of staff tronsition for publications at Union Col- lege, and to support my stand with the example of a seriously rni,sdirected procedure in the recent case of Concordiensis. The evidence I used was based on personal observation. Although my general point was clear and, I believe, well founded, S()me of my infiormation may have lbeen inaccurate. If this is the case, I am sorry. Uuusual Channel for Criticism When an editor writes something which is wrong, he deserves ilo be criticized. The most obvious channel for criticism is through the letters page of the newspaper involved. Editors of any publication are f1:eque.ntly up- braided in their own columns for statements which readers conszder mcorrect or inappropriate. The channel for criticism used in my case, however, is un- usual. It i.'s difficult for me not to question the authority of the Student Couneil, and to accept their jurisdiction in the matter. Despite the fact that. ~hat I sai.d may have been \Vl'Ong, .as a stud~nt of Union College and a c1t1zen of this country I possess the nght to vo1ce my thoughts and opinions regardles·s of thei.r validity or a:cceptance. The problem before us is no longer one of propl'lety <Jf ex:press1on, but one en- tering on the crucial constitutional prerogative of free speech and free press. If the members of the Student Council investigate the law, they will dis- covr that the editorial concerned is hardly a case of libel, and, even if it were, the Council could not defend its motion on that basis. Dangerous Precedent In its action Tuesday evening the Student Council ·set a dangerous prece- dent. Anyone writing i ay publicatio o this campus may ow be called to ac- col.mt if the Council happens not to agree with his rhetoric. The Student Council should not have the power to restrict the actions of an editor or the content of his publication, regardless of any dubiouus declaration that the Council is the r,>ublisher and there:f.ore in the pO'Sition to decitate editQI'ial policy. The prrvilege to write editorials without outside interference is sacred. Even if we w<Juld go so far as to accept the full control <Jf the Council as \publishers\ of Concordiensis, the moti-on in this particular instance can- not be ·suubstantiated. The publisher of any magazine or newspaper is free to fire his editor if he is not doing a satisfactory job, but jt is certainly a rare publisher who, instead of firing his editor decides to prosecute him in court. The Student Council, if we stretch the analogy to Union Cc>llege, can Continued on Bage 6, Column 2 eept for which it was responsible, the members can best defend their actions theruselveB. Because Qf the controversal nature ?f t.' e proposal and disagrement with- m the Council, it was decided that a roll call vote would <:!take place and the names of those V()ting for and again~t the resolution would be print- ed w1th the resolution. This de- clared an emergency motion. The vote was 15 i~ favor and nine opposed. To~ ~ztchcock, chairman of the Pubhcatzons Selection Committee stated at the beginning of the meet~ Resolution Concordy ing that he did not feel the resolution should get passed because of it's harshnes•s, but he felt that the Coun- cil should reaffirm its faith in the concept of th·e committee. AI Nah- mias, another member of the Com- mittee, was at the meeting as a proxy for Skip Eames. Nahmias was strongly in favor of passing the res- olutwn, and led the discussion in favor of passing it along with sen- ior member of the S.C., Dick Sif- ton. Leaning- the debate to oppose the resolution were Bob Winner, Larry Dickman, and Alan Ziegler. Condemns Editorial STUDENT COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 150 BF. IT RESOLVED that the Concordiensis edito1ial of March 4 1966 made certain .statem~nts which it purported to be factual, but in 'our opinion, were Without Just ca·use or basis. This editorial thus constitutes in the opinion of the Student Couuncil, a misrepresentation of the facts thus thus. maligns 1) the Publications Selection Committee 2) certain appllcants for the position of Editor-in-Chief and 3) the Student Council; and BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT: 1) The former editor of the Coneordiensis responsible for the above named Editorial, is hereby censured by the Student Counucil for not living to, in our opinion, the \reopsnsibilities and requirements o-f the editorship.\ 2) The Student Council would expect the former editor to retract the fl·au?ulent statements and to apologize to the previously mentioned parties .. Since ~he original statement was made to the entire college con:mumty, t ;s expected that the apology will also reach the entire commumty. 3) In the e;ent that the former editor fails to make such a public statement, m our opinion that his case should be referred to the BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT: Student Discipline Committee for its consideration· and The S~tteudent Co~ncil affirms its faith in the Publication' Selections Com- nu e and 1ts members. P_hi Beta Kappa Elects 16 Seniors as Metnbers . Sixt~en members of the Class of stxty-sl.X were elected to Phi Beta Kappa Wednesday. In addition, one man was el-ected as a member of the Class of sixty-five. The new members are: John S. . ~ Final Vote Forthco m'ing on Community Government Beckerman, English; James H. Blake Jr., English; David L. Braff Pre-Med! Michael A. Chapnick, Histo'ry; Frank T. Check, Jx., M<Hiern Languages and EE; Rob- ert P. E-bert, Modern Language-s; Charles P. F-enimore, M31th; and John N. Lee, PhyiSics. . '1:'he ch!lJPt';lr is also considering re- VISJ.on of thell' membership rules. The bas1c change un<ler consideration is the extension of a limited number of Junio.rs ~o the Soci:oty. The present constLtutwn was written in 1938 and v:as amended in 1954. Some addi- tzonal changes will be ne>cessitated by the ealendar changes in the Fall. Phi Beta Kappa is almost exclusively an academic honor. The only strict rule for membe1·ship is tha~ the individual must be ~~ the top ten percent of h1s class and in a pro- gram leading to a B.S. and B.A. deg;ree. Char- acter is a decidedly sec- ondary considerati!On. ,. ' By Lance Polya The All College Council Charter 'lleed only be approved by a student 'body referendum neX't Tuesday night \ to become Union's firm form of com- munity govemment. As. a statement which formally re- cognizes the establishment of the All rt. College Council the ch:arte1· is not intended to determine the exact func- tions of the Couuncil. Any discrepen- cies in its authority will be decided by President Martin. Underwent Minor Revisions The Charter was reviewed and un- anim()usly app[·oved by the Student Oouncil, the Inter-Fraternity Council, the Student Affairs Committee, the Faculty Council and the gene11al fac- ulrty, and unde·rwent only minor re- visions from the plan originally for- mulated by the Student CQuncil. Ed Clark, Chairman oi the Consti- tutional Revision Committee of the Student Council, believes that the creation of the All Oollege Council is both necessary and expedient. \Broader Role\ \I feel that in line with the phase of dynamic change now occurring, Un- ion College students want -and de- serve a -brO'ader role in the affairs of the college commun1ty. To this end, the All College Council was formul- ated to improve the communi-cation of ideas among the students, adniin- istration, and facuLty.\ Voting Next Tue.sday Voting will take place next Tuesday night. Freshmen will Vette in West College between 5:30 and 7:30; uppe·r- classmen in dormitories .and fraterni- ties between 6:0() and 7:30; upper- resident students may cast their bal- lot in the Student Aotivities Office on the day ·Of the refer·endum. Chairman Clark hopes that •the student body will wholeheartedly en- dorse the new Charter. \Many peo- ple are concerned with the so-called apathy that exists among Un.i.on stud- ents. s.tro-ng support in the comi·ng referendum will sho:w th.at the stud- ents are willing 'to assume the re- sponsi:bility of participation in the college commuunity.\ Stephen Spender Stephen Spender, co-editor of EN- COUNTER., will speak at a convoca- tion Tuesday, March 15. His topic will be \What is Modern in Modern Art?\ He will speak in Memorial Chapel at 11:30 A.M. Mr. Spender, a British citizen, will arrive on campus Monday evening. He will dine with faculty and stud- ents and will attend a 7 :30 reception at the President's home. Before his talk Tuesday morning, he will speak informally to one or more classes. ClintonRossiter Plans Analysis of 1964 Electi011 .Clinton Rossiter, Professor of Po- litical Scienlle ·rut CorneU University in Ithaca, N(l!W Y.ork, will SIJleak to a convocation h€re on Thursd~y, March 17, at 11 :30 in Memorial Chapel. His topic will be \The Election cl 1964 in the Perspective o-i History.\ Prof. Rossiter 01bta.ined his A.B. from Cor- nell in 1939. He then did graduate (Continued on P. 2, Col. 2) Also selected were: Edc P. Levy, English; Eric M. Mack, Philosophy; Arthur Morgenstern, Di vision Three; Joseph F. Musser, English; William (F. Naufftus, EnglLsh; Dale A. ·Schneider, Cla.s- si.cs; Allau H. Starr, Po- li.tical Science; William W. Stoner, Pbys1cs; and Rodham Tulloss, Math. Proposal Discussed Union's chapter, the Alpha of New York, was :f.ounded in 1817 and is cele•brating its sesquicenteni.al next year. Dean Neal Allen, Slpeaking for the Special Com- mittee for th€ Permanent Phi Beta Kappa Memorial, discussed the tenta- tive pl'opooals that :the committee expects to soon make. The proposal is that the Society .spons()r a suite of rooms in rthe new Student Cente•r.Th:is suite would include :an apartment for visiting .scho1ars, a dining area, and an area for meetings • May Be Library The committee, compc>sed of Francis Lambert, Theodore Lockwood, and C. D. Schwartz in addition to Dean AI' en, feels that this would be a con- siderable aid to the intellee>tual life on campus. This room might 'be supplied with a library or periodka.l eollection. It also has the benefit of being geared to the needs of the new campus plans. Initiation of the new members, who will join about 400 living members of t~e chapter, will be in Aprzl. L~st year, twenty-two Semors were elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. The decrease in ed . the number of those elect- th th1s Year has been att1%uted to e excellence of last year's cl ~hf~~r than to a decline in schol~~~ Since 1776 The society was the first Greek letter fraternity founded in the United State~ .. This took place a.t the College of. W.ll~ram. and Mary in Williamsburg, V1rg1ma, m 1776. It was a secret society with oaths, handshakes and mottos, with a purpose of stimulating philosophical and political discuussion. In 1875, the society opened its doors to women and at the same time changed its fuunction from a debating society to an honor society for Upper- classmen.

r ! • 2 Friday, !I FINAL VOTE SET ·FOR A~C.:C. CHARTER 7Students Elected To Delphics S.C. President Urges Student R.a ti/ication 'rhe possibilities for the All College Council aTe many and far- reaching. The goal is to provide an efficient means of communica- tion among the three major bodies on campus-faculty, students, and administration. Inherent in such a conC'ept of community government is com- munity participation: thus the All College Council will provide a prescribed mechanism for expre·ssion of opinion by responsible rep- resPntatives of all groups on campus. Several Improyements We have proposed this charter and set up a community govern- ment to penmt a more active student role in college affairs and a more active and informed faculty-administration role in ·student affairs. All College Council provides a direct source of iaformation, a reliable source of opinion and policy. All College Council cun and will serve as the ltlediating legis- lative body when differences of opinion do arise on major issues. Opinion will no longer be hearsay. Our voices wHI be heard and our views aired accurately. Stuudent Body's Choice The faculty and administration, along with the ],J.<\'.G. and Stu- dent Council, have giv~n overwhelming appt'oval to tb~ charter. Now the choice is up to the Student Body. We have two alternatives- either we maintain the ~:~tatLts quo and retain the preoent system in which interest ha::; declined and about which doubts have arisen, or we take a chance and try something new which ~an prove rather exciting. In line with student requests for greater self-determina- tion and increased pet·sonal freedom, community government de- munds a maximum of maturi.ty and responsibility. We cannot stress Inur<.· U1e potential of All Co1lege Council and we hope the s:udPnt::; <11' Un:on Yotc i'aY.>rably and give students government the \shot in the arm\ it ha-s been needing i'or a long time. .Jeff Ratner, President, Student Council Ed Clark, Chairman, Student Council Constituti()nal Revision CommitteE.' Symposium To Discuss Industrial Administration The Union College Industrial Dr. Alfred Thimm, associate Administration Program will professor of emnomics at Union, sponsor its first symposium Fri- and director of the college's In- day and ~aturday, March 1~-19. dustri:al Administration program, The conference is an attempt will speak at the Saturday c<>n- to evaluate the present state <>f ference session. administrative science. It is co- Other Union faculty members sponsored by the Industrial Ad- taking part in the Symposium ministration Advisory Council, will be Dr. Benjamin P. Whit- which consists of advisers to the aker, research profesS>or of eco- nomics; Dr. Gardner M. Ket- college program from industry. churn, chairman of the mechan- The two-day conference, bring- ic-al engineering department; Dr. ing together business leaders Clare W. Graves, professor of from New York, Boston, and psychology; Dt·. Neal W. Allen, Poughkeepsie, and teachers of Jr., Dean of Humanities and ·economiD~, philosophy, psycho!- ~orial Sciences; Dr. Theodore D. ogy, history, and engineering, is Lol'kwood; and President Harold directed entirely toward profes- C' • l\Iartin. sional administrators in industry. ~~~~~=-~==========~ The sessi.ons will he open hy invi· tation only. Rossiter o • • Begins Friday Continued from Page 1, Col. 2 Dr·. A. V. Feigenbaum, chair- work at Princeton, receiving his man of the Advisory Counci·l and A.M. in 1941 and his Ph.D in Manager of Manufacturing Op- 1942. He served in the United eration and Quality Control of States Naval Reserve from 1942- the General Electric Co., will be- 46. After his discharge, he taught g-in at the session at a 1unche<Jn briefly at the University of Mich- Friday. The opening talk will igan and in 1946 returned to Cor- he entitled \The Problem and Its nell as an instructor in politieal Setting.\ science. He became chairman of La.ter in the day a se~ond ses-1 the department !n 1956. sion \The State of Admini.stra- 9uggenlteun Fellow . tive' Sciences\ will include talks Rossiter was u Guggenhenn hv Dr. J. Flnkelstein, Pro[essm· Fell<Jw ~rom 1953 to 1954. He of History and I·~conomics and has rec~tved the Ban~roft, Wood- Chairman Df Union's Department ro;v . Wilson Foundat1on! and I_n- nf History; Dr. Rollo Handy, pr<>- s~.tute .. of Early. Amer1can Hts- fessor of philosophy and chair- L 7 pnzes. He lS a member of man of the Department of Phil- Phi Beta Kappa. . osophy at the State University I!'ll95G: Prof. Rosslter,spoke ~t f Ne York State at Bufl'alo· lJmon College Founders Day m o w . ' .'. : . . ' honor of Tayler Lewis. W. Van Alan Cla!l,, .J1., rh~~rt:nan His works include Coustitu- of . the h~ard of The. S lflPI:~n tiunal Dictatorsbip, Seedtime of Co1p., Marwn, Mas~., a:n,d ('~,ll:- the Republic, Conservatism in man of the General E.ertiomc Ameri·ca Th \ · ·P · l b t · B t . r1 !larry • e ' mencan resi- ,a ora· ori_es, os. 011 • an . deucy, Partie~ and Politics in Runyan, vice-presirlent of l,ihPrty AmNica, and 'l'he Political Bank & Trust Co. Thought of the American Revo- ---- tion. In 1960, he was a writer for Applications for all typt>s of the President's Commission on financial aid in 1966-67 will be Goals and edited The Essential available beginning T~esday, Lippman. Prof. Rossiter is mar- :Ha:rch 1, 1966 at the Student Aid rit>rl and has three chil<lren. Office, first floor, Old Gym Hall, ---·--- · between the hours of 9:00 A.M. ERRATUM till noon and from 1 P.M. to 4:()0 Coucordiensis .regrets an error P.M., Monday through FI·iday. ronc-eming the Woodrow Wilson Completed applications nutst be A ward!'l notice printed in the returned not later than Nay first. l\lfarch 4 issue. Since a Parents' Co.nfidential John Beckerman, Richard Fate- Statement must be fun1ished, it man, William Nau£ftus ··and is advisable to secure the neces- Cl1arles Fenimore received HO'll- sary papers prior t:o leaving for orab1e Mention from the· Wood- spring recess and to tal1e them row Wilson Natio-nal Fellowship TEXT O'F THE CHARTER Purp~tse: It shall be the purpose of The AU-College Council to provide a common focus on the Union College campus for Students, Faculty,. and Ad- min.istration by serving as a channel of culll.mun- ications between these three parts of tlte College Community ·and as a center for the itnpleJnenta- tion of actions determined by them. The All-College Council may review anrl initiate appropriate aDtion on matters that affect the general college community in the area CYf stuclent affairs. chosen by Student Body elections. . The function of The All-College Council w:·th . respect to the following groups shall b€: · Faculty 1. The President of the College shall drter- • academic affairs and in other affah·s in so ·. far as they affect the maintenance of edu- • catio11al standards and the inte!lectnal and . · scholarly atmosphere on the campus. 2. Any moti<m in the area of student affairs · enacted by the Faculty is subject to the • · concmrence of The All-College Council. Seven Union College students, five seniors and two juniors, have heen elected to the Delphic H'()n- orary Ser·•<ice Society. Elected were seniors Ed Clark, president: John E. Hausmann, an ·eC'onomics major; Thomas E. Hitchcock. a history major; Mark A. Levine, a history major; J eft'rey H_ Ratner, a biology ma- jor; and Dale A. Schneider, a classics major. • Union 1 long awa cert. Ho WEEKS snow. n .j versation the great and of l would be. lieve thei • Sno• '. FRIDAY: and this cooperatir . :rhe All-College Council.may recoinmend leg- IslatiOn to other college bodtes and may 011g-anize committees consisting of members ch<:>sen from the three pa;rts of the College Comnn1.nity to invest]gate any major issues and to make recom- mendations to The All-College Coumii r>r othpr college organizations, C'~m,position: I. There shall be 11 members of T'be All- College Council. 2. The Student Body President shall sene as Chairman, voting only in the case of a tie. ~. The administrative and faculty members will he the Dean and Provost of .the C()llege, the Dean of Students, and three members of the Faculty elected by the Fac-ulty. ~. The Council may reql!lest a faculty legis- latlve body to reconsider an action by pro- viding that body with reasons fo-r request- : • ing the reconsideration and any evidence ·. pertinent to the quuestion available to The . All-College Council. Student Government: I. Any motion brought before and passed by · any Student governmerut body is subject to · the con-currence of The All-College Coun-cil. · '2. Student Tax and other committees shall Te- port to .the Student Council and through it to The All-College Council upon request. 3. Operation of ·the I.F.C.P.A. shall remain solely within the Interf.ra.tern1ty Council. Juniors named to the society were: Ro·l>ert W. Benjamin, a his- tory majC)T; and Gregory R. Ol- son, a chemistry major. Limited ;to only twenty members, either juniors 01: . seniors, memlbe11Shi.p ' is, ·as Ed. Clark said, \consider- ed to be tne high~st non-acade- mic hono~ on c-ampus.\ Election is based on th·e individual's ser- vice to .the college and the com- munity. . ,.-F-ac_u_l (., .. v Profess iR now The' many Arr Students: 4. The student members shall be: 'The Presi- dent of tht· IFC, two students of the Stud- rnt Council elected by the Student CC>uncil, and two members elected by general elec- tion from the Student Body. 1. P.roblems of discipline shall remain unde1 the jurisdiction of the Dean of Students the Discipline C()mrnittee ·and Trl:!.ff:c Couft \Working Society\ Clark also noted that the Del- ,phic Society .is a \working hon- orary society,\ its most import- ant task l:Jeing the planning and running QI Parents' Weekend, to be held M.ay 6 and 7. Other Del- phic aotivities inol\lde serving as guides and 11shers at college func- tions and distributing convoca- tion tickets. In addition, the pres- ident sits in on the Lectures and Concerts Committee. Applicants fotr the candidacy for til.e la.tter two positions on The All-College Council shall be reviewed by a Student Board con- sisting of the Student Body Preside11t., Tax Committee Ch-airman, IFC President,. and two Seniors chosen by the Student Body President. The two members sba.ll be ~-Normal student transactions shall be car· ried through the appropriate student or· ganizations; Student Council, IFC and Tax:· Committee. Jurisdiction: The President of the College shall deter- mine areas of juris·diction of the Faculty and Student Government in the event Qf disputes, · NY Theatre Trip Planned The Union College Center for Humanities and Social ~c~ences. invites me~bers of the colleg~ community to par- tlclpate m a \field tnp\ to the New York City Center Thea- tre for performances of the Bavarian State Theatre. The group will perform Woy-<!)•~------------­ zeck by George Buechner and Die Mitschuldigen by Goethe for a Ph • , 1 Ed week in April and Die Ratten by YSICa · Gerhart Haupbnann during .a second week. On April 7 and Ap1·il 17, buses will bring Ger- man students from Uni'()n and any othe.r interested persons to evening and matinee perform- ances of the plays, respectively. Busses Provided Busses will leave Memorial Continued from Page 1 the pro~!'a;rn's future. The fact that the recommen- dation w-as not immediately pass- ed doe.<~ not n:ecessarily imply that a ch~g(l is coming. Since ·the Class of '66 will he the first class to have go:ne <tJ:noough three years of the ]>rogram, the Physical Educathn J)epal'.tment would Like to wait 'Until the end of the year before making final evaluations. Part of tlt:is evaluation will con- i Chapel on Thursday, April 7, at 4:0 P.M. and on Sunday, April l7, at 10:00 A.M. The April 7 bus will retw·n to Schenectady immediately following the per- formance, but the bus leaving on Apl'il 17 wHI Mt reitul'n until }ate in the evening, giving pas- sist o:f st~dent opinion. sengers an opportunity for sight- seeing. Pltys_ Ed. Uncerta.in As an introduction to the plays, Thus; the fut1,1re of the Physi- HallS Freuns, Assistant Professor cal Education pr()gra.m is uncer. in English and German, will give tain. It is too early .to pr-edict a lecture on Buechner and Haupt- ·any changes, but if modifieations mann during each of the bus are nrade, it is possible that gym tlips. These performances will requiremen.ts will be lessened. be given in German, but -some'============== wireless transistors will be avail- able at the theatre, permitting ~f~~:taneous English transla- Class Meetings Reservations for either trip must be made bv Tuesday, March 22, with either Mr. Hans Freund OJ' Mrs. Dora Pugh, Bailey Hall. The cost for one trip and one performance has been se·t at $10.00. This fee includes the cost of seats for the perform- ances. Durin~ ~ class meetipg held in Memorial Chapel last Wedlle'sday, •te:shll1en registered for their uppm·class majors. Freshmen -who did not attend tbe m€ef:ings with Mr. Schmidt, Regisb:a:r, should report this week to the Office of the Regis. trar, Adlllillistrati<>n Building, to secure the forms with which to register :ior their upper-class m:a- Jor. It is imperative that this be done irurnediately if as.sign- Registration for make-up tests ment. to a new Major Advisor is to be given on Tuesday-Wednes- to be a~con1plished. day, March 22-23 must be com- pleted at the Olfice of the Regis- Next week, on March 22, 1966, trar before three o'clock Friday, at 11 :3() A.M., all Senlors aTe Ma:tch 18, 1966. Students are requeS'ted to attend a Senior rEquired to pay a registration fee Class meeting in Memori:al of cme dollar unless they present Chapel. A.t this time, all -class an excuse for illness from the activities. will be reviewed and infirmary or were absent due to the election of ClaJs·s Day Ora- an authorized activity. tors a11d O-fficials will be held. ~ent Room rent of $85 for double rooms, $110 for single rooms for Freshmen and Upperclassmen and the Board Fee of $122 for Fresh- mt>n for the second half of the cntrent semester will be payable at th<> B·Isiness Olfice between the dates. Monday, March 21 through Friday, March 25, 1966 during the hours of 8:30 A.M.-noon and from 1 :00 P.M.-4 :00 P.i\1. Freshmen will receive their second quarter meal ticket upon payment of their bills. ENGINEERS CHEMISTS PHYSit:ISTS The Solid Propellant Field Offers You- A challenging, enlight-ened, and rewarding future with opportunity for future study professional atmosphere, proiect re- sponsibility, and management experience. U. S. Naval Propellant Plant Indian Head, Maryland Interview date: 21 March 1966 Interviews will be held on Campus. Contact your placement office for further information. , 1 4l world. WI cannot no one day ~ Amet·ican What do Let r e problems some of 1 I do not comments its sensei• American ·' \ ) . foliation , peasant h cannot ·al: self-decep from our suffered r c. self -imagE or even p criteria, · strengths even the fighter ca jungle wil ) ;: ( .I I ., '- ,~ American ' . 1 continues i ,, derground thi's our l It see thinking a and in So this geogr whether tl of society United St: · .,, highly st1· of the mil the econor a little U C: I (• and enjoyi it. To oveJ frame to : ligence, bt much alte1 time, but~ and perha] fusion bet· home to parents at that time. Foundation. 1\~~-~~-~~~~~-~-~·~~~~~====~~-------------~--~--------------~----------------.;--------~~iiiiililllllllllllllllllll~~.~.~ \Put scratchy. No dictato criticism a FERRO PHARMACY 575 N,oft Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE i D'AMICO'S TEXACO SERVICE ROAD SERVICE .I 1757 Van Vra11k.im Ave. I Phone FR 2-9767 ;Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old Eur<>pean Abnosphere NICHOLAU'S- RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 St.ate ar~d Erie Blvd. Large parties accommorlaied in our RATHSKELL£R For reservations phone FR 4-~~17 YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail Fruits and Produce - fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-1763 , very wond· the -classrc officets ha ment in tl seems torr Students c ganize dec is as mucl and partie the countr, only learn 'Y.' telligences

To students, have lphic H'Dn- Ed Clark, an E. major; major; ma- a society min, a his- R. 01- Friday, March ll, 1966 3 • Days Of Wi-ne And Roses B1 Eric Colteu :wake up-sne>w, snow and more were deserted for a ch·ange. They 'snow; at least not on the grounds. Union Col.Jege finally got its snow. Oh, yes, and bl:oc\ked high- too served normally. In true There was m·uch refuse; and on 1 long awaited Rock n' Roll .. con-· ways, frustra·~ed dates, and fer- Union fashion, and concerned the grounds-along with cotl'ee cert. How was it? Let's see. j vent thanks for ambitious and with their public figure, man;,r ~omin·atcd breakfasts, at late WEEKS BEFORE: C()ntinual fE-arless drivers. men proceeded to replace stuchy hours.. For the second time West snow. The constant topic of con-i The snow did help the snow meals with several new liquid was jammed,. as were the fra- t/ versation about the campus was' contest, though. Gorill-as,. Hogs . diets; gin, vodka, etc. ad. n·aus- ternities. After the previous the greatness of the Kingsmen I and forbesses predominated: a e:1m. Literally. evening, ·ravenous appetites wer~ and ef how swing the •co,ncert 1 good wa.y of expressing the feel- common. would be, Girls could 'ha:rdly be-; ing·s of the campus. Almost :like Sex Explaned In the afternoon, organized a.c- lieve their ears. 'I a self portrait. tivity broke down. Some res·ted, • Snow-Jobs cmd Hogs . Meals were much as usuaL The dance proved to be a bit FRIDAY: Another real snDwjolJ, West College was crowded. The of sonic nightmare, and perhaps and this time with. the hea~o·ens I Lord knows why; the usual f~od some stereo haven. The Kings- cooperating. Wh:~t a -way to. was served. The fratermtles men were less than Kings (ouch)., • and Jimmy Soul and his boy-s I were in orbit. As if anyone rro- . Faculty ·Colu.,..,. .. •,. ticed. The floorshow that came • .,. .. , with the musisians wa.s more •en- (, grossing for thol:le present than them. Cocktail parties earlier : nettes turned everyone on. Even tha·t afte-rnoon had taken their the police were set to moving. to 1: more gin, vodka, .Scotch,- Unfortunately, the Lovin Spoon- literally. ful proved a disappointment. The Concert was amazing; They sang •too loud, played even nothing 1ess. Indeed, the chapel louder, and were generally in- will nBver be the same. The comprehensible. Besides, as one Lord's auste·re hand lifted for a listener pointed out, they looked moment to let in the loud voice like queers. Too bad. of tempG-rality: the Ronnettes. At the Fraternities .there was ' JimmY. Soul, the Drifters, the not more sonic bliss, on ·a lesser level. More booze, bands and girls, too. Union just couldn't get enough. Back to the Motel Limited ers, either ' \consider- .. What After Vietnam? Professor Finklt>stein, r ha im1an of Union's History department, il'l now on sabbatical leave- at Simmons College, Boston. the musicians themselves. It isn't often that a student .!Jody loses its inhibitions; and less often that I one can s.ee a lifelike pictoral e:x- planation of the sex art non- Pshamiedly presented in public. But that's what happened~ E:x- huberance for Union really t!lok The Motels, pat't Two: The curfew at the Holiday Inn was still in force. This caused much cursing and much doubt as tQ whether Union woulJ even stay there again. No one would quite say why, however. Travelodge and Ir'nperial Four Hundred re- mained their sleepy selves; the revelers found no one to welcome them back, nor any police to , wat~h 'DVe·r them. But none seem--- ed ne~essary. No one had any ene-rgy to keep going; the even- ing ended early. non-acade- Election dual's ser- the com- ty\ Ey J<Jseph Finklestein The war in Vitenam \'ill one day be over. Net soon enough for hold that night. many Americans, a11d fur many othe1·s throughout th:: 1est of the Three B's world. Whether that unha~py war ends wlth a bang ttr a whimper we At th f t 't' th ,l 41 , . . . . d e ra erm 1es, ere were SUNDAY: \God Rested!\ cannot n()W foresee, but t:he prob.em of V,~tnam Is. a fm1te one, an ·hands, booze and girls (no allit- the Del- <me day we must face the dawn o·f a day ·without Vwtnam. For some/ eration he,re). With all the swing- hon- Amet·icans that dawn will be r1 day of intellectual unemployment. 1 ing under their belts, the fraters st import- \ 0 What do we do now? Vr'het·e do we go from here? 1 procewed to loosten up and really and · cut loose. Every.one was in high The day of rest. To a setting. of hlue sky, cool air, and slushy,: strewn paths, Union returned to· its old ways. The girls left, the liquor was stored, the bands re- ceived their checks, and the dam- age done to fraternities and mo •. tels payed for and repaired. Gen< era! quiet descended on the cam- pus for the first time in three; to End of the War spirits. Perhaps, exce•pt for the Other Del- Let me suggest that the world will not be entirely empty of Independents. With their ira- serving as ternity hoaxex nO't yet huilt, they !lege func- •r. e problems aftfi' Vietnam. Almost everyone of any competence, and had no where 1Jo go. convoca- the pres- ctures and rooms for for Fresh- payable at through and from some of no competence, have spoken on the Vietnamese situation; As the hours passed, the party I do not propose to add to this voluminous li1uature in these few. crowds thinned out, and activi- commen.ts. No one is mOl'ely keenly awar-e of the horrors of war, of ties were switched •to the motels. ·' \ its senseless cruelties, and oil' its human costs than the historian. No There were near riots at Holi- American surely can take pleasure in the firing of villages, the de- day Inn, where a curf-ew was en- foliation of fields by chemical pesticides, the destruction of pitiful forced for dates. Travelodge and Imperial Four Hund1·ed proved peasant holdings, the tem:orization of women and children;. We less excited, and troubled; they • • cannot ·also conceal those unpleasant and uncomfortable feelings of knew, as the Inn did nl}t, that self-deception and se.nse of pu:blicity which the war has brought us after such a strenuous evenin,g, from our own official and government spokesmen. We have not only everyone would want a good suffer-ed much abroad but v.~e have sutl'el'ed inour own pride and night's sleep. 41 self~image. We have not fought this war well, however suc,cesful SATURDAY: Pictured above are two typical Union Students at a typical Union Winter Weekend. days descended with a sigh. Too some played, some cleaned up' too loved Lovin Spoonful. De- soon books had to be opened, for the evening. Pledges wearily spite the warning that the audi- s'eep had, quiet enforc-ed. or even pai·tially su•cessfuJ the military orutcome may be. By cer:tain The morning sun saw bleary upon criteria, we must win the war, for our economic and military eyes, hollow stomachs, and hol- \ <'&.. strengths are so enormous that in the long run they must count. Not 'ow heads. There was no more threw out the .garbage, waxed the ence must remain in their seats It was quite a weekend. Short' t1oors, and occasionally threw out and be calm, .as this was the of a few scratched chapel pews,. the brothers, The brothers shin- FIRST R.ock concert in the a few p·ainful heads, and a few· ed sh<>es, shoveled snow, and of- Chapel, the audience really joined deafened ears, the outcome of, ten slept away the af•ternoon. All in the enthusiasm of the perform- the '69 experiment was favorable., this in anticipation of big doings ers. Jimmy Soul was again in True a few hardheads muttered at nigbt. orbit; the Drifters were too, but about monotony, boredom, laek I in a slightly outdated craft. The of originality. Still most every-: Dinner consisted of often gala Ronnettes turned eveTyone in a I one had a good time. So why ail Y. •• + •• it. even the unreasonable a.Jld dogged determination of the guerila ============================~:============================= tighter can hold out indefinitely. At some time in some future, the meals, with few oable to taste slightly outdated craft. The Rem- , worry? jungle will h.ave been swept clean, the villages combed out, the un- ) ( ( ·' . ., '- ~ American Solider aids wotmded companion in recent battle, as war ' • continues in South Vietnuu. derground ~aves and hunirers burnt bare. What will we make of thi's our highly purchased victory? It seems fro-m what evidence we have available that we He thinking along pretty traditional lines for the long run in Vietnam and in .Sootheast Asia. Without doul>t, we shall -bring rto bear on 1 1 , this geogr-apical area massive pressures both political and economic whether the :people, the government, or th~> institutional framework of society are capable of absorbing or utilizing these gifts. The United States,. and the American people for the most part think in t~· highly structured and sequential categories. First, let us take care of the military problem, t:hen we deal with the political, after that the economic, and beyond this we see a small but distinct vision of a little United States living in good-will, peace, and abubndance c: and enjoying the American way of life or something pretty clo·se to it. To overdraw the pictur-e is to distort it, but also to enlarge the frame to see it better. We do think this way-no.t '\with our intel- ' t• ligence, but with ou1· fears, feelings and hopes. Realties have not much altered this American pattern, and pt·obably won't for a long time, but sober experience over the past two decades has shaken us, and perhaps expLains some of the ambivalence, un{!ertainty, and con- fusion between our words and deeds. Right of Protest \Put away the hair-shirts\-they are uncomfortable and scratchy. Your gove1•nment is not evil, nor are it's leaders evil men. No dictatorship, no totalitarian regime would pc;;:nit or tolerate the criticism and protest which we have witnessed and encouraged. Ho:w .,. very wonderful and remarkable the open debates on campuses a.cross l the -classroom on modern liistory of politices. In fa!Ct students may officel'S have been. Let us ask ourselves whether any other .govern- ment in the entire wol'ld ·wo-ld have allowed any of this? Here it seems to me we have shownhoth individual and democratic strengths. Students ought to carry placards, join sit-ins, sponsor marches, or- ganize debates. How else doeB a democratic society survive? There is as much visual and act-ual education in this kind of involvement and participation as thel'e is in listening to a series of lectures in . the country, and on television by students, facuL~nd g'OV'ernment only learn to listen effectively after they have awakened their in- ~ telligences. Cm1tittued Page 6, Col. 4 Modernity Rules Spenders Art By Paul S-herwin On Tuesday, Stephen Spender i.s scheduled to give a convocation lecture on \What is Modern in Modern Art.\ Jt seems appropriate, therefore, at .t:bi..s juncture, to examine just what it is in the art of Spender which makes him so eminently qualified to explore these often-trod realms of aesthetic and cui- tum! criticism-to ascertain in what ways his various \truths\ as an artist and individual are operative as .an organ- izing and vitalizing prin~:ple in his o'W!l poems and critical works; for only in so far a:s the poem, say. bece>mes .truly ex- pressive does the truth have meaning at a~l. Influence of Eliot Spender belongs to that gene~ation that incubated around London ani:! the English universities during- the early thirties, including W. H. Auden, Mac- Neice, Day Lewis and Emps()n. His first bnok, Twenty Poems, published in 1!13() while he was .srtill at Oxford. established hhn as a first-rate p~et; tne J>Ub1icati-on of Poems, in 1933, established him a~; a 1 :terary lion. And yet, sin-ce the late th:rties, Spender has primarily published prose concerned with literary and social criticism. The ;reasons for such a re- versal are, of cour.se manifo-ld (perhaps he had \written himsel:f out?\); but they are harci'ly to the p()int. What is important is the au.th.or's poetic a.chteve- ment, the kind o:f i)Oetry :he wrote, a.nd withou·t this understanding it is impossi- ble to intelligently assess Spender's ex- tensive critical ~mtput. Spender it may be •said, 'Went to school in Eliot. ' One of Eliot',s ~rerut services to English liter,ature was his insiSitence that writers cannot afford .to 'throw over the European cultuz,al tradition. Spender particularly felt the iiJ!pac.t o~ these principal articles oo Ehe>t's fatth; be has many times ~i,s}}J.ay_e~ a pr~occupa­ tion even more mtensifred. With that tradition. This interest, oan obe seen. in Spender's envolvement m the Spantsh Civil Wrur que,stio~ (and_ the wh<;>le problem of Commumsm), hLs •apprecJ..a- tion of the French symb-olists, and in such a poem as \Vienna.. writlten in behalf of the non-Stalinistic S·ocialist working classes. It represents ·a recur- ring pattern in his verse. The Search Inward World War I had knocked the b~ll­ room floor from untler the English middle-cla.s.s; yet, though :people rese~;U­ bled dancers in mid-air, they were mi_r- acuJ.e>usly able ·to pretend the-y were still dancing. Unlike Auden, S.pender ~ought the solution to the porobierns of h1s age not so much in the socilal context as through the realiza-tion Qf an individrual- Hy capable of dispelling W€a:kn~ss, fancy- and illusion. Du-ring the Spamsh War, Spender made the transition into a period of political Romanticism; yet, the poems that aJl'e primarily expressive reveal also intense concern with the integTation of his own P.ersonality into the world. Po- litical de•bate is minimized as less im- portant than the integrity of the artist as a human being. Spender's is an in- tensified lyric made. In \The Human s:,tuation,\ a summary of his feelings about the individual who is shut-in by the routine o.f his daily Hie and beset by the materialism oo the modern world, there is a Whitmanesque catalogue ·of fears and enemies. And yet, the eyes ()f \the human machines\ in the poem can ... Contain the universe they see; Theil· mix·rored multiplicity Is pacl,ed into a hollow body Where I reflect the many, in my one. Here, Spender's belief that life cannot be seen ·as a whole (which is an essential of modern art) except by th€ poet-seer is manifest. There ·still is rcause for hope. As with Blake, the poert becomes the trans' a tor of the world whi:ch ma:n pro- jects around him through the actions of his will, back into language of the inner life of dreams ·~nd :Dancy whkh has pro- jected this materialistic external ae.tual- ity. The real universe which remains cons:s:ts of the distilled ins<!ape of the poet. Reinforced by a pride ·of self, Spender ends his poem wi:lli a logical aoceptance: Here I am forced on to my knees, On t.o my real and own and only being As into the fortress of my final weakness. Profound Optimism This note of aooeptance in ,spender's poetry reflects a profound ovtimism in the values of human life. In \Awak- ing,\ he confronts the problem of greet- in~ each new day: Ever the same, forever new! The gravel party searching the Way; The cobwebs beaded with the dew; The empty waiting of neiW day. The poet's fears of eternal recurrence are sublimated through the realiz.ation (or Epiph-any) that it is essentia;l to be commit~ed to existepce, or, at least, to the illusion of it. It is only by the sin of questioning the -fact of liie itself that man disco·vers his !QnelineSiS: The world'·s a circle where -all moves Before ·after after hef·ore. .Such joy my new~awaking ·proves Each day-until l start to care. The Eliot-like line, \Before afitBT after before,\ a stylistic tour de force, con- tains the entire pl'oblem of the poem within its stru•oture. It is only in the best poems that such worked-upe>n, un- magical passages come close,st, .ion tex- ture and intensity, to those moments of magical accident which form the true expe·rience of a poem. T·he crystalliza- tion of the image enables one to get from the vague sensation to the exact image of the metaphor. From Auden's attempt to write the common language of the pub, the fac- tory, the garden party, and everyd.ay life, emerged a highbrow mu•sic hall jargon or diale~ verse which has been widely imitatB>d. Spendecr 'illippropriate-d totally different aspects of language: the sensi- tive, inward vocabulary of feeling and intuition of such a poem as \Darybreak\: \My dream glides in 1 my dream,\ ·she said, \come true. I waken from you to my dream of you.\ ii 0, then my waking dream dared to assume The audacity of her sleep. Ou.r dreams Flowed into each other's anns, like streams. Yet, he could also masteT such lines as \What my fine fea.therhead, laughing lad Bill/Was your life but a curveting al'C ·Of desire,\ with their a.brupt inver- sions and counterpoint. The texture of Spender's poems is in- tri~a tely interwoven, not ·!i.s cowse as Auden's, full of nuances and refinements llke the early Eliot's, and eminently personal. It is not a method of argu- ment, which Auden sometimes employs, but of search and exploration into the movement of the consciousness of human individuals who are capable of suddenly perceiving a pattern which has the :;ig- nificance ·of our reality as having pomts of consciousness in time and society. ' ' It is a passionate, alway;s wondering type of verse in which one feels the Cont. P. s. Col. 1

4 Publlehed Fridays dur·tng the school year by the Student Body ot Union College, Schenectady, X. Y. Na· tlonal Advertising Representative· National Advertising Service, Inc .. CoUege Publishers Representative. 420 Madieon Ave .. N. Y. C. Edl\t:orlal Otftce, Old Gym, Union <\:oiiege. Pubil<'lltlon Office, Sche· mct:nd:Y Pr·intlng Company, 602 Rr~adwny. Entered In the Sche· ner1:n<I:Y Post Offic-e as Second etas~ ~!nil ~latter. Subscription 15c n coo::y: $1 a year dellverPd anywhere in t heo l'nltPd ~tatf'~ HOBEH'l' R'l'OLZHF.:IW 'Go ROBER1' RORF.:-;'J'IL\L '67 .. DO:>:ALD RC'HWA!tT7. 'Go. l'At:L HHERWII\ 'G7 ~IOHTY KA~I7.A~ 'G7 A:'\DilBW rOLD '67. HE:-.;.H\\\ I•'Ellfll 'Hfl::-l 'r, II . . . 3 4 fi. !1~1 s. ~ .•... 341i-!19:-, ;J ' ....... :~ u:!-0·1 :~ .: Elli tor-in-Chief llusim•:iJs llanager ~lanaglng J.:::ditor .Ft>alure Edlt.or !'o:t•\\~S Edit OL' S(>or'ts Editor l'~w-ulty .\dYlsur Jm.:u\ph ~lann '6S . KE\nneth Bousqut.at · tl\.; Jael( Jo::tldn '6S LUUI'f'n<'P Rilslq.: '6'; Paul u,~,·l\A.'l\ • 6'\ ,Jl\Xl(IR BU.\lt:U . .. . \~HJ~tun't Nt'WH Etlltor IJllut(H;t'aJihy EUitot• ;\.1t iort.al .\dvt•rti~l n~ H'\llt't·~wntutiYE\ Distribution .:\tanager t~i n·u lat ion :\lanagt\r Standards Faith vs. Reason Finally, the Cortcordy's plea for an end to Union's apathy was answered. Nevertheless, we fe€1 that the Stu- dent Council could have found a better answer. The motion of censure that was passed Tuesday night · showed an incredible lack of understanding of the rela- tionship 0f the student body and the campus newspaper. It also showed a deplorable lack of sober thinking. The motion was passed under special rules designed to · allow the Student council the ability to deal rapidly with · matters of an emergency nature. By invoking these pro- cedures, it was enabled to pass the motion without waiting ~for a second meeting, as is th€ normal procedure. Was it believed that the CONCORDIENSIS editorial of March 4 · would so damage the reputations of the members of the Publication Selection Committee that it was absolutely necessary to deal with it immediately? Or was it that the proponents of this measure feared that it could never pass if given any study outside the range of indignant rhetoric? 1 Surely, it seems that the resolution was hastily pre- • pared. Even a cursory study of it shows several serious I problems. It never makes any formal charge against Mr. I Newman. It never cites what law has been transgressed. The editorial in last week's issue indicated the contro- It never cites which passages it finds offensive. It never versy which surrounds the functi<ms of the CONCORD!- even states a date by which satisfaction must be granted ENSIS. There are m.any misconceptions of what a student before the Student Discipline Committe€ would be called newspaper is and what it ought t() lYe, and it is from these in to judicate. misconceptions that this controversy has sprung. But what is most reprehensible is that the Council never seriously considered the substance of the editorial. The Council \affirms its faith\ in the Committee. :But a deliberative legislative body should be moved tby more than blind faith. It should be moved by well-reasoned argument and cogent investigation. Surely the SC missed the forest because of the twigs. In its determination to pun- ish \certain statements\ of asserted inaccuracy, it totally missed the major point of the editorial-the raison d'etre of the Publication Selections Committee. Friday, March 11 , 1 966 Ratner's Response To the Students of Union College: At the last meeting of the Student Counci.l, Mr. Newman was requested to apologize publicly f0r alleged fraudulent and maligning statements appearing in his editorial in the la;st iS'sue of Concordiensis. I was instructed by .the Council to prose- c1:l!te this legislation and present evidence to the Discipline ·Committee if Mr. Newman did not publicly make amends for his statements. Acceptance As Student Council President, I accept M-r. Newman's re- marks appearing in this issue as a suitable apology and would . •li'ke to thank him for maintaining a mature attitude at a · time when so many others haven't. As Chakman of the Student C0uncil I am responsible to enforce its legislation and as Stud- ent Body President, I am obliged to the college communi1ty to voice constructive, intelligent opinion. At this time, the latter outweighs the former and I feet compelled to set aside my sup- posed neutrality and to state my personally cons·idered opinions. Facts Misrepresented I feel that Jlilr. Newman did misrepresent facts, for as a member 0f the Publication Selections Committee I can attest to the lack of a plan and the absence of collusion among its members. Perhaps his specific wording did not satisfy all read- ers; his reaction is indeed understandable, but not condoned . Let us not lose sight of the major question involved. It is a question of genera:] philos0phy, not one of individuaul person- ality. Mr. Newman fears possible censorship-a paper run by the whim of \campus politicians.\ Indeed, this is not the aim, nor should it be the aim of the Student Council, specifically the Publications Selections Committee. This board was sent up to give v.ider campus voice, perhaps greater representation, in the workings of the several publications. I can hardly stress adeqquately the objectivity and sincere interest exhibited by Mr. Hitchcock and Mr. Dittleman, before him, in trying to make this committee workable. However, it has become apparent to me that the committee is not the final answer and that campus publications should more closely approach autonomy. Who Controls Concordy? • • , • Friday, Le; (Con· Gc To the E An ed Concordy state men on facots. · I don't I don't cE brought been ove taken by 1ega1·ds 1 Mr. N poorly v general · libelous. ing, tac1 Student though, 1 cf art aJ If men Board fe ' . ligned, le · persons, heen .att states. tl: was \ma This, cer In fact, the resol 1 • torial. I will Studelllt 1 to my c I had op]: strongly. To th~ E The students of our college, the financial supporters of aH student activities are publishers, as Mr. Newman asserts, how- ever, a college nevvspaper is very much different from a com- mercial one. We are not to sit above the paper and pass judge- ment 11pon its actions, for, potentially, we are all participiants. Concord.iensis is as much a student activity as is the Football Band or the Outing Club. For this reason we have only one means of altering its policies and practices and that is for in- terested people to work on the staff and to contribute per- S0nally to its workings. I have had and wi!I continue to have personal disagreements with Concordy staff members con- cerning content and philosophy of the paper, however, I am not ·on the staff and expect my criticism to be heard as the words of an interested student and by no means expect to im- pose my views on Concordy. For four years I have heard too much empty complaining about the paper and have lost pa- tience. Perhap::~ those people outwardly and verbosely inter- ester! will eacrifice some of their time and offer positive sug- gestions, if not actual work. I ha-ve Council 1 Newman last issur As the e c.ation, I support 1 case. Tt are quitE opinions and purp ~o- . · Committe Proposal The question of the proper selection of the editors of campus publications is not new. It probably dates to 1877 when the CONCORDIENSIS was founded. That it con- tinues is obvious. There is no question that the publisher of a news- paper must have some form of control over it. The CONCORDIENSIS has not d€nied this in the past, n~ shall it in the future. But the matter which has caused all the discussions and ferment is not this admittedly vague principle but the concrete method by which it is imple- mented Rethink Situation Concordiensis will never emerge from the control of a tig·htly knit group, as this is inherent in such an organiza- tion; however there is no substantial rea:son fm• this group not to represent a greater cros·s section of the campus. The -only obstacle to this is a lack of desire within the student body to serve on the staff'. Suggestion In conclusion I propose dis-cussion of this ma'ter at Stu- dent Council and at the first meeting of the new All-College Coun-cil. We must l'ethink the entire publications situation and arrive at a mutually- acceptable conclusuion. I cannot ask mo·re strongly for objective thinking by all parties, not marred by personal prejudice. Jelfrey H. Ratner Student Body President Letters to the Editor correct. why his ( err, -but ~ :.1 the f·aet malfuncti< we had a: born. , That he at! is, I on the St black l'eco be censur unjust an< dom -of t The Sel a mistake fled and a success and lrn·ow: blatant vi ity should of any stt organ. Tl might mer Finally, one can see the newsp.aper as a \vehicle for the expression of stuudent opinion. Tills actually cal Union student . .Alternately, tnis viewpoint means that means that it should become a ho1.1se organ for the Student the newspaper should actually be a newsletter, giving its Council or should reflect the opinion of some mythical typi- total coverage to notices. And the CONCORDIENSIS does not hesitate to state . that it is totally and irrevocably opposed to the present! method. The Publications Selection Committee is con- i R . h I d\ . ? 19 teous n 1g:nat1on. j 1 ., but the 1 Idol, whicl responsibil selves, do cradation trust of ju trolled by individuals appointed on the basis of ignor-1 To the Editor: ance. They are purposely cnosen with no experience on tne . . P ublications involved. No matter how well-meaning and· When on Tuesday mght th~ . . . . members of the Student Council unbiased the member may be, if they are to exercise their let themselves confuse childish ability to over-ride the editor, they do so from a basis of anger with righteous indignation These purposes are valid, but not as the main guiding abysmal ignorance. Even if the decision should be justi- they did the student body of Tin- principle. As an organ of the e:xp:ression of those who are fied, it cannot possibly be made on a satisfactory basis. In ion Gol.lege more harm. than all active the newspaper these always being students does short it would be made in a vacuum. ' the sprrn~ weekend ·org~e~, mot~- ' · · B h th f t 1 ' d th ' er's day r1ots, and vandalism thrs express student op.rmon. ,C?t e ea ure CO: 1l.lilDS an e . school has seen, lumped shame- ~etters. to the Editor secL10n ~re _open to all cogent and · Therefore, the CONCORDIENSIS proposes that the fully tD\g~the.r. While the latter mterestmg comments. If the po1nt lS that Concordy should I present method of selection be altered in such a manner may be d1sm1ssed as youthful.ex- censor the news so as to make the college look better (and as to allow the publication the fullest degree of autonomy uberance, energy, or rebelhon, th . b b · 1 ted) the ans ,.. 1 ·s that t·h 1 ·s, · · · · the attempt to {!ensure Mr New· IS as e~n serw.us Y sugges . ·. we... I possible while ensuring that the publishers, i.e. the student man for his editorial i~ last newspaper 1s convmced that. Up1on 1s. 8;n e:xcellent sch~oll body acting through their representatives on the Student week's Concordy was sheer, small- and the best w.ay .to show this 1S l>y gwmg the fullest pw- i Council, will still be able to exercise the reasonable rights minded irresponsibility. At a tuure of the Sigmfic~nt events that occur each week, re- : of control that they do have. 1tim;e when the ~dminis_tra~ion o-f gardless of whether 1t makes the college look good or bad: • Umon College !s be&'nmng .to the truth will be evident. look for wars m vvhlCh t~ lll- Te best method would be that the senior editorial crease the mfluenc(l and mde- It is within these broad boundaries tha.t the CON-: board of each publication be allowed to select for them- pendence of students in dett>r- CORDIENSIS shall function during the next year. The selves the editor for the coming year. Let the Student mining their roll in the C>ollege C 'I b · th ' ht t h' d · · b th community, the Stu-dent Council paper is always open to reasona]:}le suggestions on how it ounc1 e gwen e rtg o veto t lS ectsion Y a · ree- took it upon itself to en,gage in can be improved. rt is also glad to welcome to its staff quarters vote on two successive meetings. Obviously, there just the sort of intra-mural wrist all those members of the college community who wish to would have to be additional details written into the actual slapping that denies the ability work for it. Criticism is fine in its place, but it should be bill, such as timing and the resolution of stalemates. But of students to confront issues backed up by more than mere verbiage. this proposal settles the major questions of the conflict of that are clearly in their own interest which has so often plagued the relationship be- realm of control with intelligence ACC: Vote Yes Throughout th€ country, students are faced with a choice concerning their educaion. 'The choice is \Jetween re- bellion and responsibility. The pwp<Jsal for the All College Council offers an unparalleled parth for the development of meaningful student government. lt provides for direct student action in conjunction \Vith faculty, administration, and eventually alumni. ACC can provide authority and responsibility to the student body for Union. The vote Tuesday is part of a dual challenge to the student of the college. First, it demands that he be willing to .accept the burdens of self-government. If this is accepted, the student will have the cbligation to make the Council work. The CONCORDIENSIS hopes that the Union CollegE' student can meet these challenges, and it most strongl~ urges a \yes\ vote on Tuesday. tween Union's publications and the Student Counc11. The CONCORDIENSIS hopes that the Student Council will see that it is in the interests of the publications, the student body and the Student Council itself that this pro- posal is accepted. Only in this manner, or a similar manner, can the SC make sure that the recent controversy will not be repeated. In Appreciation and maturity. The issue is not over the cor- rectness of Mr. Nevvman's point of view. As the Student Council was to a degree the object of his derision, it has every right to voice its anger at the implicit indictment Newm•an hurled against its, President. But to ceYIISure him! My God, I can imagine no more ridiculcms re- sponse. And to bring him be- f\ore the Student Discipline Com- mittee] This is nothing less than blacl{mail. The Student Council is, in effect, confronting not only the editor of Concordiansis, but every member of every organiza- tion that is .supported ·by student Co d , funds, with the threat ·that un- Professor Henry Ferguson is retiring as ncor Y s less the. policy of those organi- faculty adviser. During th~ past year he has more than· va:ti•ons impli:ctly satisfy it, they fulfilled the trying duties of his post. His wit, insight and will face serious trou~le. knowledge have been a constant aid to us. We wish him the A co-ntrol over the expendi- best of luck during his sabbatical next year in India. ture of student fund-s is all to the well and ·good until it becomes <a tyranny of the opinions of a few student council members over the . 1 throughts and ideas of the rest of the student body. And when it extends to •the very delicate area of freedom of the press a much more level bunch of heads t must prevail than those present Tuesday night. Defiance Urged 1 urge the editors of Conc1>rd- :r. iensis not to capitulate to the demanrls of those few individuals who wish to use student govern- ment at Uni<>n College as an or- 11 gan with which they might ex- act vengeance agains•t the news- paper, indivi-duals on the news- paper or groups with the news- 9 paper. The freedom to state well thought-out, intelligent opinions in the form of editorial viewpo.int existence 1 mittee im] Students are asking them as t -to treat ings., If t ~will form d cracies an they will 1 up with ~Now, is th away of 1 when the ' , sary bure~ I is demandt 1 •. cratic crea least, plac1 ize immedi is the most previous perogative ~=== of a newspaper editor. It is ~ 1 \ - worth defending. I urge the members of the Student Council to reconsider their course of action. There are l certainly better ways of answer- ing Mr. Newman's attack. Those who feel this is a personal issue woul<l. do well to abandon the use of the Student Council and recite their invective on WRUC, between rock and roll record.s-- where suc:h childishness sho-uld be less conspicuous. Rediness? Let's hope that President Mar- 1 tin and Dean Lockw<>od don't re- member the way it faced this comparatively complicated situa- tion \\ 1 hen the student council asl{s the administration to lib- eralize the eocial rules. The han- dling of this affair hardly shows us to be ready f.or the greater responsilbility that more pro~s­ sive social rules demand. Robert P. Holfman '66 (Continued on Page 5) c To the Edi I find it ,. • 1 last week'E ial wa.s a ent who, \the most fluential s ion.\ The lished und< lusion,\ ha1 , box's \Mot myself!\ It is rlif to begin ir rors and fa •merous in feated cane tions Selec1 IS what i~ like to takE ment that: th-e commit of any qu sun, but pr else bother, Ther-e w f1>r the va. Committee plicant stVbJ interview

1, 1966 Friday, March ·11, 1966 b ~------------------------~-----------------r-------------------------------------------.---------------------.--·------------------- ques tions, aimed at determining< I ~~~-~··••••••••••••••••••••••· preS$~, free us. Believe in our to ~lk. They need a place alone Letters. 5 the applicant's qua Hications, were . fY.ouncJ[ Re·~o[u ... tJon \(J:ot' 'h dignity, .and we will be dignified. besides some ooJd, parked car. asked. I feel that the committee \...(~ ._ .,, ,. Y ~ ~ Give us responsibility for our own O_nly a ~runk talks easily about 1vas extremely conscientious in : lives. Look, we are not evil. We himself m room fuH of people. choosing the best qualified stud- . It was requested: that a roll call vote on the censure lli()- only reaet against something that Any .student, anyone at an, needs • • (Continued from Page 4) and la;st prose- for .. , Going Overboard To the Editor: • An editorial appeared in the Concordy of March 4, 1966. This Btatement may have ·been based on facots. It may not have bee·n. I don't know, nor do I care. I don't care because the issue brought up in the editoria:J has been overshadowed by the action tal<en by ·the Student Council with 1ega1·ds te the editorial. ents to fill the vacancies that ex- tion be taken, and that the results be posted. is unfair.\ a. Pl,ace to go to say, \Look I isted, and I am confident that IN FAVOR: OPPOSED: First, HberaHzing hours fo0r didn t mean what I said. Let me the Committe.e has the a:biHty to Ludwig Hausmann public room use on the finst fl<>or exp1ain,\ or \I'll tell you why I re- w<>uld at a Stud- to latter sup- , • as a attest its cloned. t is a by the nor the up to on, in stress by to pus of aH how- com- judge- piants. one in- per- have con- I am the to im- rd too st pa- inter- sug- of a not -only to Stu- and mO're by dent oa of a few • over the . 1 the rest when delicate press a of heads t present Concord- llo e to the govern- as an or- ex- news- news- news- 9 well opinions viewpo.in1: It is ~ of the are f answer- Those issue the uncil and WRUC, recorcts- should Mar- don't re- this situa- council to lib- The han- shows e greateT '66 5) act in a manneT that is advan- Sifton Liden is something with which I totally don't want to g<> with them to h · er IC man 1 agree. ut t is is nO't a we1g ty · oga. ou nee a p-lace to go tageou.s to bo•th the college and I' Ge n· k B h . h 't ,, y d . t e newspaper. : Kadak Winner proposal. It's pure common sense. and listen to a record and talk Perhaps the Committee was : Marshall Benjamin (Stovkis) Nobody in th-eir righot mind would abGut anything from your mother able to see what those on the Nealon Bauman! . 1 not demand that first floor pub- to sour hour. Y.ou nee{j a place newspaper staff are unable to Pinson Flynn 'lie Tooms be <lpen-open period. where you are on homegvound. Mr. Newman's stat{'lment was poorly worded, tactless, and in general went ove1•board. lt was libelous. Compared to the word- ing, tact, and outlook of the Student Council reso.lutien, though, the editorial was a werk rf art and supreme reason. see. Concordiensis is being run Amesbury Gordon 124 hours a day. You need a place to .go .and l1sten in to the ground. The Friday Dawson Ziegler t d d night comments that I have MacDonald Hours do come· into considera- 0 a l'ecor an talk a·bout any- hea:rd on the quality of ConcordY's Walker J tion for upper floor lounges be- ·hthtingyfrom your mother to sour ·endeavors ·hardly qualifies the Costello (Burrows) r-ause of the faet that the dormi- our. ouhneed a .place where you .pape1• for any awards. One could Rollie tory is a studying place {'for are 1 on hmeground. You need :start a new parlor game with Clark 1 those who can stand it) and •their a P ace w ere it is your place. · ' t th h f' d E-ames (Nahmt'as) 1 r1'ghts to qu1'et mu·st be re- You want this modicum of the pr1zes goomg o e one w o m. s d' •ty h t' all the typograph\ical effors first. spected. lgm t a s yours if they'd let And by the way, what ever be- Now ·the above is the main you sh<>w it. This is the dem•and. came .of the \detaHed. report\ on mittee of the .Student Council basically unsatisfactory, I hope. body of the committee's report; No compromise before we start. If members of the Publications Board feel they have been ma- ligned, let them complain. Their. persons, not their offices, have been .attacked. The Resolution states. that .the Student Coundl was \maligned\ by the editorial. This, certainly, was not the case. In fact, I feel more insulted by the resolution than by any edi- torial. th:e building program that we might result in the disregarding to make plain. and at the end, we find the \sug- This i.s t;he demand. were to find in last week's issue? of suggestions from less prestig- The proposals, as formulated, gestion\ that rooms .be open at The ne~e·ssity of everyone's Were we too busy raving to in- ious sources. . deny that the avera.ge student highly restricted h()urs with cer- recGgnizifrg the real nature of elude some news? Thirdly, if such anno\uncements has any personal dignity. They tain degrading stipula~tions. But the demand is of the 1 1 ighest im- May I remind Mr . .Newman are meant to placate the faculty deny that he will behave with this is the demand! po1:1tance. 1 state once more: If th.at he was chosen as editor last many of whom really do not fuBy a:ny responsibility unless he is Let us put our cards on the the changes do not manifest con- year over at least one candid.ate understand the point and depth . watched. They deny that he is a table for everybody t<> see. Open- fidenee in the dignity and, in fact, who had at leas-t a year more of the changes being demanded), free man with a life that he must ing lounges mean.s opening up humanity of the average student, e1eperience on Concordiensis. As they wii·l in the long run cmly order in his own way. T~he pro- laek of privacy. We've already they will :be uns·atisfactory to Ji[ r. Newman so aptly put it \No serve to bring about confusion posals say, \We do no.t believe, got that! The point of the whole that same student. The demand eJCperience is necessary to run a and resulting breakdown in vital in reality, the humanitari·anism movement for rule changes is to now, at all coHeges, is :for the news·paper into the ground.\ I communications when the real •that we are taught in theory.\ secure the student the privacy freeing .of the students' cramped am sure, however, since virtue needs of students are unfulfiUed · They say, \Watch us, we are for the forming of dignified rela- dignity and the recognition of ov·ercame evil, and Concordy, :at by the implementation of a plan. evU.\ But the pra<psals we need tionsMps. Those words may seem each as an individual man. Any- the last minute, \was saved from such as the Student Council should be prefaced with the very big and empty, but they mean one who can't see this isn't look- I will not apologize for the Stude!lJt CGuncil. I can only say to my constituents that I wish I had opp-osed the resolution more strongly. Robert I. Winner, Student Council Parliamentarian a catastrophe,\ we can exped a Committee's and complaints are opposite of these sta.tements. that people need to get to know ing. gr·eat rebil'th of journalism on raised again. That such a .plan is They should read: \We are op- people. They need to have •time the Union College campus. It would' be a .shame to force Con- cordiensis to sever its bonds with Rodham E. Tulloss '66 Black Mark To th~ Editor: I h:J.-ve learned tl'f a Student Council motion censuring Barry Newman for his editorial in the last issue .of the Concordiensis· As the editor of another publi- cation, I would like to give my support to Barry's side of the case. The facts of his editorial are quite certainly true. . ~is opinions about the orgamza~on and purpose of the ,Selech<>ns Committee are, in my opinion, correct. His speculation as to why bios choice was <>)}posed may err -but this has no bearing on :.~ the' f·aet that he witnessed the malfunctioning of a hody which we had all hoped would be still- th5s campus.\ Not only would the student body ·be at a great ·.oss, but where, or where, eould CBncordy go ? Fred Heitkamp '66 Hit Nerve T(). the Erlitor: It is unfortunate that B·arry Newman vented his frustration as editor as he did, but it is more un.fortunate that the Student Cou1rcil responded as it did. Did Barry Newman hilt a nerve or wh:at do they fear? This sup- pression of one's opinion has wo-rth only when there is some- thing to hide. born. That he should be censured rut '\ all is I believe, a black mark on th~ Student Council's all too black l'ecord. But that he should be censured for •being right, is unjust and a clear denial of free- As a member of that very· Student Publicartions Board, and as one who did not vote as Barry Newman d-id, I say, if there is need for apology, let Barry New- man do so to those members of the Student Pll'hlications Board who request i.t. Jeffrey S. Spector, '66 dom of the press. · R t D d d The Selections Committee was espec eman e a mistake. But it can he recti-· To the Editor: fled and the power of choosing [n your editorial of March 4, a successor put in responsible were you bemoandng: and kn·owledgeable hands. Only a) th.e attempt to remove the blatant violation of responsibil- Concordiensis from the domina- ity should call down the wroth tion of Phi Ep, of any student or administration b) the Publications Board in gen- organ. The Garnet, for example, era1, 1 might meTit a little looking into: c) or the fact that RO'bert Sto z- .• but the Concordiensis and the berg -almost was not chosen? I would further like to remind Idol, which have long held their the Concordy thaJt its threat to responsibilities before them- \se.ver its bonds with tMs cam- selves, do not deserve the de- d cradation oo> char3Jcter and dis- · pus\ sma,cks of idiocy cWJsi er- trust of judgment which rthe very ing that this is -a eollege news- existence of the Selections Com- :paJ>er, not a newspaper <that hap- mittee implies. pellis to have ·offices in a College Students ·all over the country building. are asking their eldel.'S to treat A.ctually, if the Concordy does them as trustworthy individuals want to leave, feel free! Then -to treat them like h.uman be- som.eone else cou1d start sorne- ings., If the students themselves •thing new, and not possessing ~ will form de-personalizing bureau- the Concordy's staff's great ex- cracies and red tape factories, perience, .something f~e.sh and. in they will be tripping themselves touch with student •opmlDn, wh1ch up with their own handiwork. possibly is whaot the Publications Boa..rd was trying to do in the ~Now, is the time When stripping i away of nonsense 1s demanded, first place. when the dissolution ·of unneces- sary bureaucratic entanglements is demanded. Our •own bureau- . •. cratic creations are, at the very least, place, where we can real- ize immedi·ate results. . Rodltam E. Tulloss '66 .:_ Catastrophic To the Editor: 1 I find it difficult to believe that \·last week's Concordiensis editor- 1ial wa.s a creation of that stud- ent who until last we-ek, held \the mo~t taxing and most in- fluential student <>ffice at Un- ion.\ The editorial ravings, purb• lished under the· title \In Col- lusion,., had the ring of the boob box's \Mother I'd rather do it myself!\ It is difficult to know whe-re lo begin in pointing out the er- rors and fa1se imp-lications so nu- ' merous in the article. As a de- feated candidate for the Publica- tions Selections Committee (that IS what it is called), I would like to take issue wiJth the state- ment that students are placed on tne committee \not on the basis of any qualifications under the sun but probably 1becaus-e nobody ' 1 \ else bothered to app y. There were many applicants . for the vacant positions on the Committee last year. Each ap- plieant submitted to a half-hour interview during which many Richard H. Martin Phi Gamma Delta Upset To the Editor: I was extremely disappointed to see that the Student Council Committee on Social Rules was taking such a diluted, weakly worded compvomising position. I hope that their unde·rsta,nding of the importance of compromise in politics does no-t involve com- promising before one's Q_pponent can raise objections. Unfortunately, the committee is doin·g the student body a great disservice. First, the Srtmdent Council itself did us a dis-ser- vice by not appointing a vocal metuber of the \student le:f:it\ to the C<>l11nl.ittee. With one excep- tion, the members named are rather conservative and associ- ated with the Establishment. There is no harm in this, in it- s·elf; however, i.t is in the interest <>f the student body to have a broa:d selection of opinion avail- a:ble to the delibt;\rations of such committees. Secondly, the committee did ·us a disservic.e in s})eaking up be- fore it had any solid proposals. There are other groups on the campus at this :time trying to work up proposals for changing the social regulations; and a weak- stick: announcement from a com- Pass this difficult and challenging 7-part test and win a free GENIUS button! ·----------------~ ~~te ~~;xl~~~:~:r I .. DIFFICULT AND CHALLENGING 7-PART TEST\' I Part 2. Write you~ I ,t,eet address. r ~ l 1 2 3 4 Part 6. What field ~--:=::::::::::::='-----------:5:-------------­ do you plan to be a--1.----==---------------:::-------------- GEnius in aftet· 6 I I I I I I \Room for GENIUSES,\ General Electric Company, I Part 7. Now, cut •-------- P.O. Box 215, Church St. Station, New York, N.Y. 10046 ~~~~~ 7 I graduating? I coupon to General . :~~~~~~,atthis .. ________________ .. General Electric is passing out GENIUS buttons. What's the point? We want to spread the word that there's room at General Electric for talented people who want to take on big challenges. We like to call these people GENIUSES. But what they're called isn't so important as where they're headed. And at the General Electric Company, there's plenty of room for GENIUSES, n<> matter what their particular field of interest. If you want to be recognized for your talents come to General Electric, where the young men are important men. And be among the first on your campus to own a genuine GENIUS button. It will serve as a reminder that G.E .... and GENIUS ... and important challenges ... all go together. 'Progress Is Ovr Mosf lmporft~nf 'R-otlvt:f . GENERAL. ELECTRIC ·.· .. __ _

ALL--COLLEGE - CHARTER. Page 2 SPENDER'S POETRY Page 3 Garnet Takes 2nd Hatnilton Wins Track Meet; In LC.A.C. Meet Sessotns Runs Dash In 5.5 Stu-dents & • F acuity Fite The Union Varsity wrestling team finished second to RPI in Saturday's second annual Independent Col-lege Athletic Conference In i-ts th-ird meet of the season last Saturday, Wrestling Championships at Hobart. RPI ran away with the team the Union track team finished fourth, with .thirty- honors with S2 points while Union barely. nosed out Clarkson for five points, behind the other three competing second 66-64. St. Lawrence and host Hobart rounded out the field .. teams, Hamilton (42), Springfield 34, and R.P.I. The tout'llament went the way Coach Allison had predicted last week, (40). with the only rt>al surprise being the size of the RPI victory. Sessoms Leads Garnet Union had two individual winners, Ron Iannoti and Barry Corn- Al Sessoms 1ed Uni-on, winning the fifty yard wall. Iannoti, 6-1 in the regular season, pinned Pete Rodgers of dash in 5.5 seconds, tying the Field House record. Hobart in 5:13. Cornwall, wrestling- at 1G7 instead o.f his usual 177,. HoweYer, he strained a hamstl'ing mu-scle and scored a close fl-5 decision over AI Hard of RPI. Three other Union will probably not run this Satm-day in the Union men reached the final8. Bill Waite (12:~) lost to George Aronsta1.1m1 Invitational Meet. His loss would also hu·rt the of RPI, 13-4. Jan Wern<>r (152) lost a close 5-3 decision to Sandy relay team. Faden of RPI. Dale Schneide1· (160) lost to Don Fay of Clark-, A good early season jump of twelve feet by son 5-2. Bob Newbegin took a first place in the pole In the regular sea·,::on Cnion hacl beaten Hobart and lost to RPI. vault for the Garnet. Larry McFarlane won the The othPr two teams in the tournament, Clarks0n and St. Lawrence d were not 011 this year's srhPdule., althoug-h both will face the Garnet broad Jump wi-th a leap of twenty feet, four an • next year. \ . one-half inches and also placed f.ourth in the high Sherwin 0 •• (Continued from Page 3) emotional impart before the in- telle-ctual impact. The effect whil'h the poem has upon the reader is in many ways analogous to the manner in which the poem was conceived and writ- ten. They are both processes in \becoming.\ As Spender says, in The Making of a Poem, the work on the first draft may not be re- hurdles, a new event for Larry. John M-orriso.n . took second in the shot put with a toss of 47'31A,\ 1\. T J his best throw of the season. Joe Shoenfelt gained 1 'fewman . . . . fourth place finish in the 600 yard run, running (Continued from Page 1) fairly well, ('1: 19. 7), although .hampered by a cold. Dave Ring was ill and could ~mly compete in the mile relay ill which Uniori finished second depriYe me of my job, but they bc>hind Hamilton. Ring wnl run the 1000 in ad- have no basis for attempting to dition to the relay this Saturday. Neil Campman ddeprive me of my status as a student. According to the Council ,interpretation, a mass student upriRing could decide to lynch· the editor and very nearly be ronsidered justified. Finklestein ... placed second in this event last Saturday. ; Jn B• BaJJ Coach Ketz sbate-s that the six key cindermen ' · · on the Ya.rsity's twenty man squad are SBssoms, · McFarlane, Newbinger, Ring, Shoenfelt, and Mor-: 1 rison, and that the first four are injuries. Thus Ketz does not expect Union to do too weH this Saturday because of the lack of healthy • The great day has finally come manpower .. He heliev~s that t~e Dutch-; when the Union faculty takes on men may ww the broad Jump, may wm the pole . · vault, will struggle for the 600, and should take the members of the student bo<t'1 second in the shot put. The addition of high in a bas]{etball game that will jumper Fitz Turner, who has just finished play- ing baske-uball, shoul'd help the Garnet. Ketz surely sw·prise everyone. The ex peds Rochester to win the meet with Hamilton . faculty members, including Pro- se_ ond, anct R.P.I. third. The other teams in the meet are Roberts We-sleyan, Rocheste1· Institute fessors- HaH, Hart, Weitz, Clem- of Techtlology, Springfield, Cortland, Hardwick, Rockport State, and Le Moyne. The New York State Championships, with a probab 1 e entry of seventeen teams, will take pl.acc the following Saturday. In the freshman meet, Union placed third w'th twenty-seven points, behind R.P.L witl fifty-two, Hamilton with thirty-six, but in front of Springfield with ten points. Bowling ents, M·.a-rtin, Henry, Bo-ard, Leon- ard and Flood are calmly confi- dent. However they h.ave a se- oret weapon which no one hl!.s yet figured out. s:tudent playea·s a1•e Ben Volinski, Doc Be-njamin, Dave Honi-gan, Mike Holzer, Al Miller, Oden Oah, Lal'l'y Ludwig, Greg Hollister, Denny Peskin, Jim MacDonald, Bernie Mulli-gan, Dave Worrel, Dave Kauiman and Continued From Pg. :.l arithemtic h~wever increase geo· George Master. The students Students interested in seem to be rather shaky of their forming a Union College position, not understanding the Bowling Club with league faculty and Jts secret weapon. members should contact Eri-. The garne will ,be refereed by anne at 345-9730. Prerequis- Coach El Evans. All the action ite: an average of 170 or bet- tal,es pl•ace tonight in the gym at seven thirty. There is no ally cons-cious ~t all. Gradually, But the \publishers analogy the .P?et .feels Ius way towa~·d the for all its weakness, is not even da.t·lflca~JOn o~ the see!? p1ct~re, 1 applicable to this case. The Stu- the musw and mner feel mg. Smce 1 dent Council is not personally in- so many of. Spender's J?Oem~ are : terfering wi.th the newspaper as :oncerned w~ th real. or u:na12mary · a publisher would-it is acting as JOUrn~~s, wtth mot10n, 1-t IS not 1 a government body and in this surpr1smg .that the concept of : sense it is exercizing govern- direction was vital for him. \The mental inte1·X:erence in the free- great~st o~ •. all human de!usions,\ 1 dom of the press. The citizens he writes. IS that there IS a ta-n- of the United Sbates have re- gible goal, and aim.\ The intui- fused lo admit such undue in- tive kind of poetry that Spender \'o]\'ement and the students of wrote, a poetry whi~h suggests l'nion Cohege should not stand rather than states, 1s wo_under- fo 1 it either. fu!.ly adapted to such a v1ew of the movement of the human spirit. If the modern world is an age where t!'aditions have been swept away hy revolutions in industry and science. Spender sees fit to just about ignore those revolu- -=~=====! the eyes of the individual spec- I tat.J>l', that is the hurrlen of all! Spender's poetry. . Politics and political arrange-! metricaHy, and, they will be the~e ment's are ever more difficult than after the B-52 s return to t~elr military successes, and they will fields on Guam. Almo~t nothmg remain so. The technology of suggests ~~at we WJll handle carrying on modern war glorifies these poht1cal proble~s ad~ simplicity. Equipment is so so- quately. Whet~er you stand m phisticated, and so. beautifully the Kel!lledy wmg, the JoJ:nson- controiled by electromc and other Rusk ~mg, or somewhere m be- scientific gear that we become tween, 1t seems ~qually clea~ that angry and frustrated when they a bankruptcy of 1d~as rathe1 than do not operate at a 100% eff~- a. general prospenty of alterna- tiveness, and young men still tlves .Pr~va1ls. must die in terrible hand-to-hand This IS the first of a two· combat. The variables of political part series. Patronize Our Advertisers '-er (at least 21 games). A tenb.tive match has been ar- ranged with Siena College, and plans are now being made concerning an intercol- legiate tourney at eother Rochester or New York City. admission, but the game is spon- sored by the campus chest. Do- nations would be appreciated. The campus chest acts as the campus charity center and redis- :tributes the money to the various ~· worthwhile activities. lutions. His poetry, like that of Pound and E:liot, deals with the decay of culture, as does his rritical work, The Destructive Element. What, for Spender, is he significance of a fragmetized civilization within the envisioned memory of the greatness of its cultural past. To achieve these , poignant states of remembering, I g1·eat unifying beli-efs are essen- · tial, whether those beliefs be in progress and technology, or i.n religious dogma. It is just that attempt to express the search for totality, for the wholeness of the unh·ersP as sPen throug-h HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL - CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR e SEA e RAIL • CHARTER BUS LUIGI'S RESTAURANT L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY SPECIAliZING IN Italian 1125 BARRETTT ST. American Food Schenectady Dl 6-97 44 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bcr lEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Cedi Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 1:!210 EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 DB AMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Horne Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. • 1 A.M. For three Generations • Those Who Know Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER ~Iaurice B. Granbart & Sons \'3 Union Graduates iniiGraubart Family'~ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY • • Set By The me Political i the memb derwood's Lcgislativ five meml Senate al Hale Hou: The gill ren M . .A chairman Jeremiah of the Ba Lynch (I of the Cc tions, D. Newburgh tion Conu the Senat, Discussi apportionr City's fim instance, t didate fo1 agreed tJo the legisi self, forcil The reasa ~ tives for : convention districts, ~ to concede to the oth1 The quE districts t chosen, th< ent schem' Vis: To ' ., Indian campus fr< spring as·~ Sage -on M LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. -Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE ~.EWEST LU~CH 71·5 Albany Street Specializing: HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE DINNERS AND SANDWICHES TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot -.- 1 Serving Schenectady Since 1921 ) Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLfNG LANES -· Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACk BAR ON PREMISES I'''''''''''~'YYv¥Yt¥fvYfv¥¥v¥¥tvtttvf¥¥t¥•••••~ ~ . . ' ~ . :~~ DEWITT'S · ~ t! ~ -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1- Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal B-everages 118 - 120 JAY STREET ......... , ................................................... .A..! Infectious, the blazer. So, tbe Establishment offers a cure - a tight tonic of lighter colourings for Spring. lf a double dose is required, may we suggest the double-breasted· version? DAVE'S fron1 39.95 ~quir~ ~l}op 326 STATE ST. PH. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 Rao, a at several the area, ] will visit ': J •• Albany StE While groups dur osophy and • 11 Born i versity. I1 and Plaris. His no• lish to com year, his hi States. Accord: a:t Union ~ Western st1 arhlst of in 1'hios will p would galin Mr. Ra mittee on 1 a.s this will Mr. R~ semester. • and Hi·stor; his competE to creative and is nosw Any ml Mr. Rao or mittee on 1

Fite After Vietnam Pg.S Founded at Union College 1877 Hunger Strike Pg.4 PRICE 15 CENTS come ty t~kes on Student Body Ratifies All College Council body that will The uding Pro- eitz, Clem- o.ard, Leon- confi- have a se- 0 one has players Benjamin, Holzer, .AI Ludwig, Peskin, and students of their the weapon. by the action the gym is no is spon- best. Do- bs as the and red is- various •• • LTER S~athte Sel~t~~tolrs I!· ClintondDominick III, left, and Warren M. Anderson speak informally WI po 1 1ca science stu ents. Senators Speak On Reapportionment By William Blumenthal The members of the Department of Political Science, Neal W. Allen, and the members of Professor James Un- derwood's Political Science 48 Class Legislative Processes, were hosts t~ five members of the New York State Senate at an informal meeting in Hale House Tuesday evening. The guests included Senators War- ren M. Anderson (R., Binghamton), chairman of the Finance Committee, Jeremiah B. BJ.oom (D., Brooklyn), of the Banking Committee, Robert E. Lynch (R., .Schenectady), chairman of the Committee on Penal Institu- tions, D. Clinton Dominick, III ( R., Newburgh), chairman of the Educa- tion Committee, and the Secretary of the Senate, Albert J. Abrams. Reapportionment Discussion centered al'Ound the re- apportionment question, New York City's financial difficulties, and in one instance, the possible Democratic can- didate for governor. The .senators agreed that it was impossible for the legisl,ature to reapportion it- self, forcing the issue into the courts. The reason is that the representa- soon to be released by the courts. Senator Bloom, the ranking minority member of the Banking Committee and one of the mos.t influentiat ~:n~ hers of the Senate, has seen the new plan and feels it is very equitwble and has little gerrymandering. The senators also feel that before New York City Mayor Lindsay's tax bill is voted on by the legislature, it should be approved by the New York Ci~Y: Council. . This in no way dis- crmmates agamst New York but is an extension of AllYany'.s p~licy of home rule. Should the C1ty Council pass the measure, Senator Bloom, a former city councilman, feels that ap- proval from Albany would be auto- matic. Senator Lynch, chairman of the eommittee on penal institutioilJS, fee1s that New York will have .to raise its 15 cent transit fare in order to gain support from some upstate communi- ties. On the whole, the senators seem to agree that Lindsay's request for taxes is a smart political move, since it is his first ye,ar in office. By elec- tion time, the people will have for- gotten the tax hike. One senator ex- pressed doubts about the ne,ces£i'ty of the tax measures and the reported poor financial condition of New York. f~n·ing to Eugene Nickerson, Super- VJ,so~ of N~ssau County, as a \poor man s Harnman.\ He would like to see a member of the legisl-ature run, and feels that what the candidate lacked in st:a:tewide fame he would make up in personal dyna~ic's and a strong campaign. Fraternity Standings Rank Name Average Jan. '66 1. Phi Epsilon Pi ------------- 3.036 2, Phi Sigma Delta ------·---- 2.675 3, Delta Phi ·····-··--------· 2.661 4. Delta Chi ---·------------- 2.613 Ali fraternity -------------· 2.482 5. Alpha Delta Phi ·---------- 2.461 6. Delta Upsilon -------------- 2.452 7. Theta Delta Chi ------------ 2.443 All Men ------------------- 2.429 8, Phi Della Theta ------------ 2.379 9. Phi Sigma Kappa ---------- 2.369 10. Sigma Phi -------------·-·· 2.347 11. Chi Psi -------------------· 2.346 12. Psi Upsilon ---------------- 2.327 13. Beta Theta Pi -·------------ 2.298 14. Phi Gamma Delta ----------· 2.255 15. Kappa Alpha --------------· 2.148 16. Sigma Chi ----------------- -2.130 By Lance Polya Union Col-lege's student body ap- pr-oved the Charter of the All College C_ouncil in a referendum last Tuesday mght. The fina.J vote was 442 in favor and 35 against ratification of the Charter. Generally favorable reactions to the passage were expressed by prominent members of the college community. President Martin had a most enthus- iasti-c outlook: \I welcome it. I'm glad to see this kind of divided re- sponsib!lity. It should make for in- creased autonomy in student matters and also in active student involve- ment in determining the character olf the college. Anything which pl\'· motes dialogue is the right thing for the co :lege.\ Increased Responsibility Dean Lockwood believes that the All-College Council represents a un- ique forward step for Union College that will help elicit continuing com- muni-cations among faculty, students, and administration. He noted that finally there has been created a co- ordinating body on campu.s through which any other group may submit their own ideas, proposals, and re- quests for action. The Dean realizes that the council will entail increased student responsi- bility, but hopes that the students will face up to the challenge of this new experiment. \Many colleges will be watching the succes.s of the All- College Council. If it does succeed, it may very well become a pattern for colleges elsewhere in the country.\ Interim Council Student Council President Jeff Rat- ner wants to put the All-College Council into effective operation as soon as possible. Until the faculty and student representatives are offic- ially elected, Mr. Ratner has propo,sed that an interim council be tempor- arily established. This would be an experimental model, de-signed to an- ticipate problems the permanent All- College Council will encounter. The interim council would organize operational procedures, and orient the members to this new form of college government. Several randomly se- lected members of the Seni.or Class, and Deans Loc-kwood and Pollock • ~ tives for the upcoming eonstitutionl!ll convention are taken from the Senate districts, and neither party is wiiiing to concede control of this convention to the other. The question now is from which districts the representatives will be chosen, those established by the pres- ent scheme, Plan A, or the new plan In answer to a question &bout pos- sible Democratic c-andidates for the govemorship, Senator Bloom said th<> party would need someone with a strong personality. He ruled out the present contenders, in one oea.se re- Clinton Rossiter Sees· Dint Republican Future: I I 11 Visiting Indian Scholar To Appear Here In April Indian novelist Raja Rao will spend two weeks on the Union College campus from April 18-30 during his two month visit to New York State this • ' spring as •a visiting schoiar. His first visit to the area will be made at RusseJ:l Sage .on March 21. Rao, a str-ong advooaJte of Gandi's political theory, wiN give major speeches at several local colleges, including one at Union ·on April 19. While he is in • , the area, Mr. Rao will spend a week at Russell Sage from March 21-30, and will visit Skidmore from April 4-16. His final area appellil'ance wiH be at Albany State from May 2-14. Wluile rut Un1on, Rlao will meet with some classes and informal discussion groups during his Sttay. In particular, he will attend Honors English, Phil- ' •. osophy and History of Oriental Ide.as classes. Early Education Born in Mysore, India, in 1909, Raja Rao was educated at Madras Uni- versity. In addition, he studied in France at the universitie·s of Montpellier and Baris. I-Us novel Kauthapura has been lauded as \perhap the best novel in Eng- lish to come from India\ by E. M. Forster, auth~r -of Passage to India. Last year, hi'S Latest novel, The Cat and Shakes}Jeare, was published in the United ' States. According to Profes-sor Henry Ferguson, Associate PrOfessor of History a:t Union College and Chairman CYf the Area College Committee on Non- Western studies: \This is a new breakthrough in bringing to campus a creaJtive arciiSt of internationwl repute who can stay on campus for an extended period. · Thi'S will provide 'a;n experience for students which will outweigh what they would garin from the -sterile Convocation system.\ Sponsor Mr. Rao's visit to Union i-s being sponsored by the Area eollege Com- mittee -on Non-Western studies. The committee ho}les that more visits such a.s this will take place in the flllture. Mr. Rao Wlas appointed Scholar-in-Residence .at Unrion for ~the Spring semester. While he was a.t Madras University, the author 'Stud,jed English • and History. As his knowledge of the Western World increased, including his competency in Englis·h and French, Mr. Rao moved from reseaa-ch work to creative writing. As a result, Rao began writing in Engli-sh and French and is nQIW one 'Of India's foremost contemporary novelists. Any members of the college community who ·have ideas -as to entertaining Mr. Rao ,or scheduling visilts with him should contact members of the Com- mittee on Non-Western Studies. At Convocation Thursday morning, Clinton Rossiter, a note,d polittical analyst, sadd that the Republican party has \no future\ in American polities. Mr. Rossiter, who is author of. sev~ era] classics on bhe American political climate, stated that the Democrats would be \o-ne up\ in the struggle for the Presidency \for a long time to come.'' Prediction The ProfeStsor of Political Science at Cornell predicted further tha<t the Republicans will not make the Gold- water \gamble\ again in 1968, but will seek a oandidake closer to the \center\ of American palitioal atti- tudes. ThiJS approach, he said, dis- counts the nominwtion of John Lind- ,say \or anyone like him,\ as well 3IS damping th~ hopes o-f \.stalwart\ con- servatives. Rossiter declared that he would \put Ms money\ on Rich·ard Nixon to be the next Republilcan candidate, \if he wants it.\ The American people, Rossiter not- ed, had approved the increasing in- volvement of the F·ederal Government in the country\<~ economy, so<Cial wei- fare, and civil rights, ws well as its growing influence abroad, by the over- whelming viobory afforded Lyndon Johnson in 1964. He called the eleCJtion the \greart; confirmation\ ·()f the sweeping changes in national policy thrut have occurred since the administrouion of Franklin Roosevelt. Rossiter, who describes himself as \an amwsed observer of the paSising scene,\ said that we electiQn of 1964, \ranks as one of the greats in Ameri- can history.\ Most Presidential can- didates in the last qu-arter century, he observed, have \milled about in the middle ground'\ and emphasized the nation's unity. Barry Goldwater, however, represented .the first Re- publican bolt from the \rules\ of acceptabi-lity. By deciding \to ignore, defy, down- grade, and even to change\ the rules,_ the Cornell professor stated, the Re- publieans \came up with an anti- model\ of the perfect candidate in the figure of Goldwater. Expectation According to Rossiter; Goldwater expeded his votes to come from the \stay at home\ rightists who had never been offered a clear vo-ice in the past. He was the first man in anybody's memorry to run for the Presidency as a conservative while showing \con!tempt for the cel1!ter.\ If the rules were followed, Rossiter said, Goldwater was the \worst pos- sible RepubLican candidarl:e.\ Johnson, conversely, was the best candidate conceivable. He was the politician oQf the C'eniter, Rossi<ter said, \poised like an angel on the head of a pin\-a unifier and a compromi•ser. He was a loyal Democrat who looked like a Southerne:r, hut who could \change himse'lf in1m a cowboy,\ Ros- siter observed. Ross~ter declared that Goldwater's drubbing demonstrate-s that the Dem- ocratic image, wiiJ;h its slight leaning to the left, would d(}minate American politics far into the future. Members of the Senior Board of CONCORDIENSIS will have dinner 'lt West College Dining Hall Mon- day, March 21, at 6:00 P.M. They will be in West College Library from 6:30 to 7:30 P.M. and would like to meet with all students in- terested in discussing news1>aper policies and membership. would comprise the temporary com- mission. Ed Clark, Chairman of the Consti- tutional Revision Committee of the Student Council, wa:; quite gratified that the Charter was given almost unanimous approvel, but expressed disappointment that only approxim- ately 40 percent of the campus par- ticipated in the voting. High Caliber Two of the six student members of the All-College Counci1 will be elected from the student body at large. It is imperative fur the suceess of the Council that these positions be filled by highly competent und interested students. Student Council President Ratner voiced these sentiments: \My major concern now is that a high caliber of students partidpate in this organiza- tion and I would hope that anyone interested in student life at Union College would be willing to serve the All-College Council. For a student government to b? a responsible, re- Cont. P. 3, Col. 4 British Poet Appraises Modern Art By Robert Fded . \I think it would be a good idea ~f there were more revoluti{)n in writ- mg and rather less in painting,\ said Stephen Spender at a convocation on Tuesday. Mr. Spender, a British poet, critic and translator, and co-editor of En- ~oun!er, discussed two basic themes m his talk on \What is Modern in Modern .Art'/\ The first was a gen- eral definition of the term \modern art\ and a discussion of its links with the past. We. can talk about the \high recog- ni2lahiHty:' of modern oa.rt, he said, becau.se It has t\V'O basic traits. A work of art is considered model'U \if we feel that it sharply breaks with the past, and if we feel that it in some way confronts the present and fu- ture.\ Rules Changing Mr. Spender noted that being \mod- e~\ was something of a fad among wnters of the early part of this century. \We forget how much writ- ers like Eljot and Pound were con- cerned with being modern . • , Their later works show that they are hardly con~rned about being modern at all. Today we forget how much bemg modern was an aim earlier in the century.\ He maintained that much work that had originally hailed as revolutionary was soon discovered to have very definite roots in the past. Henry Moore, the British sculpture is an example of this type of discov~ry. His work was (}nce thought to be com- (Continued on Page 2) ~I '''

2 Hunger Strike: Bombing of Rice Crops Protested at Amherst AMHERST, MASS.: Seventy stud- ents at Amherst College deci~d to show their OJ>position to the destruc- tion of part of the Vietnamese rice crop by Ameri-can chemical bombings. Fasting was their method of protest. Three men lasted the entire ·week for which the fast was planned. George Chaleff, '68, who hell)ed Ol'- gaRize the fast said in an interview with the Amherst Student: \It dt,ew a larg-e number of student protestors than have ever been excited by any issue of national politics. Because it was specific~because it protested the crop ilombing and not the war-it dt·ew a number of pro-war students who protested just the same.\ The fast was not a haphazard ef- fort. Tht> planning involved mass meetings at meal times. These meet- ings would involve discussion and lectures on the issues involved. Fac- ulty members representing such di~ verse fields as History, Biology and Chemistry backed the protest. The idea came fl'Dm a SDS hunger strike a.t W~sleyan, but the Amherst chap- ter did not participate in the organ- iz.ation of the .pmtest. The effectiveness of the strike, Chaleff said, came from the fac.t that a fast shows the sincerity of the protestor as he is wiHing to endure vh:,.·sical distress to prove the strength ·Of their convictions. It has the fu1·ther -benefit of being leS'S like- ly to produce adverse reactions in those who disag-ree with its pur- poses. \I think it wHl help convince people,\ he said, \that the demo11- strators are not just a bunch ·of effem- inate il1tellectua!ls trying t() drnw at- tention to themselves.\ Fraternity Workshops Held: L FtJ C. Problems Discussed By John Anes On Tuesday night, March 15, eig-ht Union College fraternities held I.F.C. workshops at their chapter houses. The workshops involved fraternity Presidents, Treasurers, Pledge Trainers, Scholarship Chairmen, Itushing Chairmen, Alumni and Public Relations, Social Chairmen and Stewards. Discussions were held concerning- these positions and actions were taken bv the IFCPA, ~orial Chak1nan, Alumni and Public Rela- tions workshops. · The lnterfratemity Council Purchasing Association t:xamined the possi- bilities of increasing their bids to include linen and frozen food, as well as groc- Pries and sundries, bread and dairy products. Tom Mulford, head of the IFGPA, nnnouncPd that questionnaires were ~ent to the individu·al fraternities concern- ing the prices and quality of linen. The IFCPA, buying for all the fraternities, \·ould be able to ·secure better quality linen at lo\ver prices. Also, the possibility of holding rushing meals simultaneously was discus-sed. ln this way, fraternities could be reimbursed by the West College cafeteria. The IFCI'A. will also make up a compo-site of fraternity menus in order to sur- Yey the individual methods of food preparation. In the Alumni and Public Relations workshop, two main points were brought up. First, a suggestion was made that an open house be held at Union for the benefit of Schenectady residents. Also, it was proposen that an i·ssue of Con· cordiensis be distributed in the city. Friday, March 18, 1966 Building Expansion Set /Spender • By Michael l{lintpl Preliminary work has started on a new heating plan for the Union cam- pus. It is anticipated that the plant will be completed at this time next year. The contract for building was awarded to the Hanson Construction Cor- poration. Construction cost is expected to run about $636;000. Additional funds will be required fo1· architectural and administrative services. The heating plant will consist of two boile1·s, each capable of generating 35,00(1 pounds of steam per hour. The .current plant ha's a capacity of 60,000 pounds per hour. There will also he a smaJI boiler to be used in late spring and fall. Nature to he Destroyed The plant will be situated 250 feet west of the Field House. It wiH re- place the old plant l()cated next to the north side of the Library. The new At-ts and Fraternity buildings a:s well as present buildings will be serviced by the plant. The path of the famo-us lTnion College \Brook\ is being altered to make room for the new heating plant. Evidence of the starting consb·uction can be seen when 011e walks near the Field House (pet·haps on the way to a golf maintenace) and sees the pretty trees being ruthlessly sliced from their natural habitat. This is truly a tragedy, as our extant timber supply is rapidly diminishing. Teddy R()ose- wl.t would not be proud of Union today. CAMPUS CALENDAR Friday, March 18: 7:00 and 9:00 P.M., EE 22 film series. \M.\ 7:00, Memorial Chapel, Stage Band Con- cert Industrial Administration Synnposiwn. Saturday, March 19: 12:(}() noon, Field House, Track New York State Champion• ships. Sunday, March 2-0: Lecture, 8:00, Old Chapel, Rabbi Milton Elefant, Director of Hillel, Syracuse University. Tue~day, March 22: 11:30 a.m., Memorial Chapel, Senior Class Meeting, 7:30 p.m., Hale House Student Lounge, Student Counucil Meeting. 8:30 p.m., Old Chapel, Debate on Viet- Nam, Thursday, .March 24: 2:30, Bailey Hall, Mr. Howard Samuels will speak. Friday, March 25: Ad-Interim Scholarship Reports. Saturday, March 26: SPRING RECESS BEGINS, 11:20 a..m. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS C()ntinued from Page 1 pletely new, but critics have discov- el·ed very old ideas, some from Mexi- can primitive sculpture, in Moore's art. Mr. Spender's second major theme was that \the visual art's have made more of a break with the past than the literary arts. This is partly be- cause of the matedal uaed.\ In the dsu::d arts, particularly in painting, .the medium is changing from oil to plastic and other modern materials. The painting surface is also different. As a result, \painting is an art which has got to a stage when it is not strictly correct to call it painting. The rules of the game are constantly changing. Painting is an art which is committed to abolishing its past.\ Mr. Spender felt that painting may kill itself as a result, for the visual ob- jects the painter creates have a short- ·er and shorter lifetime as innovations are introduced. The same sort of revolution is go- ing on in music, he said. \Y ()U've en- til-ely changed the rules by which a work was composed in the past.\ Poster Literature The situation is different in Iitera- .ture~ however, because \literature deals with words\ which have the same meaning in a litera·ry work as they might in a newspaper. \The med- itlffil is unma!Ieable,\ Mr. Spender said. \If you change it radically, if you take E. E. Cumming's one step further, it becomes typography, something to lo·ok at and put up on the wall.\ Men like James Joyce attempted to experiment with language in their work. But literature ceased to be a revo-lutionary art \because language itself is evolutionary, rather than rev- olutionary.\ Literature is now dom- in•ated by what Mr. Spender called \revolutionary traditionalism;\ the tradition is present, but modern liter- ature is no longer completely continu- ous with the pa:st. While the aim of -literature is \more and more to keep open connections between the future and the past,\ painting, Mr. Spender said, \continues to be avant-garde.\ EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA and Nutmeats from all over the world. PHONE 393-0870 406 STATE ST. / 'l\oung ellmeriea m..._ on the (jo·(jo by Patti Poulsen \Miss 40D .Astrojet\ · i0 Flash: The biggest news ever to hit teen travel is tbe new half-price plane fares! Anyone between the ages of 12 and 22 can now travel for 50% less than the regular price of jet coach ticket-and to just ab<mt any place that's anything in the U.S.! '~ 1 ~ * * More young people will be taking to the skies than ever before. Know what that means? The scene will be swinging even before the desti- nation is reached! Some tips for making that next trip the best ever: First, don't wait until the night before to start making plans. Half fare travel is on a staudby basis so ~et your tickets beforehand. * * * Know someone where you're beading? Then drop him (or her) a If communications were good enough you could stay in the sack all day card before to set things up. Don't wait 'til you arrive to call; your friend may already have plans and nothing beats the inside know-how of a native for getting you the right spots. Don't take everything with you that isn't nailed down. ' * * * Porters are always around except when you need them. Just in case you should be one of \the chosen ones\ Moving your body around is highly inefficient. If communications were perfect, you would never have to. Of course, you would still have to get exercise. But that's your problem. We want to make it easier for you to contact people, learn, get information, attend lectures, and hold meetings. We developed Picturephone* service so you can see as well as talk when you call. And be seen, too. We introduced Tele-Lecture service (two.way amplified phone calls) to let you hear lecturers in distant locations. And so you could ask them questions no matter how far away they were. Right now, many students can dial from their dormitories to a language lab. Soon a student will be able to dial into a computer thousands of miles away to get information for his courses. Depending on the nature of the information, he might get his answer back audibly, printed on a teletypewriter, as a video image, or a facsimile print. Some of these services are available now. Others are being tested. For the next week or so, better get a move on. *Service mark of the Bell System ® Bell System American Telephone & Telegraph and Associated Companies however,. be sure to have some quarters in an accessible pocket. * * ·* Now, to get down to important business-where the kids are. The IN spots are: More than ever before New York is where the action is. Twenty years ago young people made pilgrimages to Paris; today they come to NYC-the young people's town .•. Provincetown, America's Bohemia on the Waterfront and one of the liveliest, swingingest stretches of sand on the American Mainland ••• Washington-for a cultural~ political survey course the fun way! .•. Los Angeles where the liveliest season is the summertime when the Hollywood Bowl, Greek Theater, Disneyla!ld and the indomitable beach parties get into full swing. ff Quickies: Don't X:iss.:._N:w York's Washington Square in Greenwich Village, scene of a gigantic art show in the spring and fall and folk singing every Sunday afternoon •.. the Tombs in D.C.-a noisy cellar where beer starts at 35¢ and you can chew on a Polish sausage for all of 17¢ ••• \Pop\ folk music at The Troubadour in L.A. where if you can prove you're 16 you get a 50% discount at the door •.• San Erancisco's Windsor Hotel, the perfect pad for the student shoestring-plushy for the price •.• \Camp\ is IN and so is camping in th\ Grand Canyon area .•• One of the farthest out discotheques is Boston's Bibliotheque which does look like a library! * * *· For more of where the action is-send for a free 64-page b<Joklet \Go-Go American.\ It contains detailed information on student priced accommodations, restaurants, and 200 IN discount coupons for top spots all over the country! Just drop a card to Dept. ML, Youth Plm:~ Headquarters, 633 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 10017. & sac. - WI 'I Friday, #, ' 11 Luigi I performed to 16, it w The pre •sor Willia banks wa~ ducer of Monell, d . ,own rig·ht 'delusions the Fourt the tenth -~ The titl plaY_ed by mattes at Mar gar< tensive tr: ···York City under MH Soprano,\ Pacific.\ l 1 productior u!' the ch1 \Hippolyt1 Dr. D1o1 . the self-in Pre- Pre-regi 67 will be the Regist .. ' Building, b 23rd. Stu. their copy leaving foJ ,dents who lJnion nex ing seniorl Each stt ter of ·Cou: beginn:ng \Course E instruction tration. F; turn their later than mores and their list o April 25th. 'turn their soon as pc posed on tl lines menti Pt·esent see their April 6th 1 mores and their advis · 22nd. Sor nounce spe students a Please be ments. API Applicatio ~ntation G 1970 are n of Student They must i office by F CRI T Fie Ac fu u.

18, 1966 discov- Me.xi- Moore's jor theme ave made past than be- In the painting, oil to different. art which it is not ting. The which is Mr. may kill ob- a short- on is go- en- which a st.\ in Iitera- Jiteratm'e the work as The med- said. take it thing to to in their be a language than rev- dom- er called the liter- continu- aim of to keep future Spender garde.\ new of 12 price ing in Know desti- until audby a your them. ones\ IN on is. they eater, in n the get the amp\ r top PlaQ. Friday, March 18, 1966 Mountebanks To Per/ornt Pirandella ' \ Luigi Pirandello's trag·i-c·omedy, \The Emperor,\ will be Werner Liepolt. Mr. Liepolt, a senior English major, .h~s performed by the Union College Mountebanks from April 13 been in several previous Mountebank productions. In his to 16, it was learned today. · freshman year he was seen in Ghelderode's \Pantaglejze in The production will be under the able dil·ection of Profes- his junjor year as Father Benedict in \Andorra\ and These1.1s ~ •sor William Meriwether, whose l'ast offering with the Mounte- in \Hippolytus.\ banks was l\listress of the Inn, by Carlo Goldoni: The pro- Former Actors Included ducer of the Mountebanks' production will be Samuel B Kent Kraft, Baron Tito Belcredi, is no newcomer to Moun1J.€c Morrell, director of the Galaxy players and an actor in hi~ bank producbion·s. Only a sophomore, Kraft has played the . ,own right. The play, written in 1922, involves the supposed lead role in previous Mountebank performances of \Hippol:y- . delusions of an unfortunate man, convinced that he is Henry tus\ and \Andorra.\ An English major, Kraft was last s~en the Fourth, Holy Ronlan Emperor during the latter half of as the effeminate Mar.r,uis of Forlipopoli in Go]doni's \M:is the tenth century. tress of the Inn.\ ~ .~ , . . Meri~~~l~e.r ~lays Le~d , . Gail Starr Blair, the lovely Dlaneira of the. \Mistres's\ pr~- 1he tttle 1,01.~ of th?. , gteat and tragic. Emperor wtll be duction, will play the Countess Matil'da Spma. Mrs. BJa.u· plaY:ed by \Yt~l!am :u~ll\\ether, lnstr.uc. tor m Speech a.nd Dra-~ has had previous acting experience in. college and i.n high matiCs at Lmon.. , . . . school. ~~rga~e~ :Mer~we-t~et, wh.o >ytll play Fr:da, ha.s ~ad ex-. The four Privy Councillors, pet·sonal ~assai~ to the ~mperor . t~ns1ve,.ttauung m duuna~lc:s. Sh~ has stud1ed actmg locally (who was always accused of' surroundmg h1mself vnth n1en \ark C1ty. She has acted ~n \Bedttme Story,\ Ionesco's \Bald of the lower aristocracy) vo:i!l be played .by John Shephar-<l, under .Mlss Irene ~Iarmeun ~nd Anthony Mamino of New Jim Gallagher John Gerson and David VanDenb1:1rgh. She:p• Sopran?,,'' \The Sohd Gold Cachllac,\ \qur Tow~,': and \South hard has app~a.red in num~rous summer stock productions, 1 1'actfic. . In S~!1enectady sh;, appeared .m the C1v1~ Playhovse Gallagher has had high school experience in acting and was p:·oductwn of !he Women. Last sprmg she was a member stage manag·er for the \Mistress\ production and Gers<>n ~1 .the chor~7 In the Mountebanks .production of Euripid<Cs' played a servant in the Mistress production. Dave VanDen- Hlppolytu:;.. . . . burgh, the reluctant Bertold, has danced in musical comedy Dr. Dl?lll~'<t~ Genon, the psyci:~atnst, who proposes to cure and acted in straight comedy. He has done extensive work the self'-1magmed Emperor o:f h1s madnes'S will be played by in high school dramatics and in community productions. . Pre-Registration Pre-registration materials for 1966- 67 will be available in the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Wednesday, March 23rd. Students are urged to secure their copy of these materials ,prior to leaving for spring recess. Those stu- ,dents who do not plan to return to lJnion next fall, except for graduat- ing seniors, should also report. Each student will receive a \Regis- ter of ·Courses\ to be offered at Union beginning in September, as well as a \Course Election\ sheet and detailed instructions for completing pre-regi·s- tration. Freshmen are requi·red to re- turn their list of 1966-67 courses not later than April 18th, while sopho- mores and juniors are required to have their list of next year's courses in by April 25th. Students are urged to re- , turn their Course Electi0n1s sheet as soon as possible. A fine will be im- posed on those who miss the two dead- lines mentioned above. Present freshmen are scheduled to see their new Major Advisers from April 6th to the 15th. Pre·sent sopho- mores and juniors should meet with their advisers between April 13th and · 22nd. Some departments may an- nounce special meetings for advising students about next year's elections. Please be alez·t for such announce- ., ments. ., APPLICATIONS Applications for the position of Ori- ~ntation Counselor for the Class of 1970 are now available at the Dean of Students' Office, Old Gym Hail. They must be returned to the Dean's i office by Friday, April 8, 1966. Air Force Colonel Briefs ROTC On U. S. Defense Union R.O.T.C. eadets were briefed on the Air Defense Command Tuesda:y evening by an ADC planner. The planner, a colonel and 1946 graduate of West Point, first outlined the f0ur major threats facing the United States from the air: Russian manned bombers carrying a:ir-to-gr<1und missiles; the Russiran rSS6 interc.ontinental bal- listic missile; Russian missile-launuching 'submarines; and the Russian space threat, which is a .threat of the future rather than {)f bhe present. He then oUJt.. lined the ADC defenses for eooh of these pO<ssihle attackers. The Di'sta;nt Early Warning System (DEW Line) detects an attack ,by manned bombers. This system of radar stations stretches from the Aleutia-n Islands, ac1·oss Canada, and into Greenland. Approximately 400 stations are in the international warning line. Off-shore detection is the job {)f DC-121 rada-:r planes, based in California and Florida . Satellite Danger Once the enemy has been detected, interceptor planes are \scrambled.\ These range from the F-102, which reaches altitudes of 60,000 feet ·and speeds up to 800 mph, to the new F-112, .still in the development stage. This interceptor can reach an altitude of 80,000 feet and a cruising speed at 1500 mph. \One of the problems we face with this aircraft,\ the colonel quipped, \is that the AilC decals keep burning off the tail!\ On the subject of defense against attack by ICBMs, the colonel said the best system this country has i·s the Ballistic Missile Early Warning System (BMEWS) with stations in Canada, Alaska, and Greenland. This system .gives a maximum warning of fifteen minutes. There is, however, no way of intercepting or de- str-oying ICBM's. Missiles launched by submarines can be destroyed by neat-seeking mioSsiles fired from aircraft. These same missiles <then seek out and destroy the sub- marines themselves. One satellite, orbiting the earth in 90 minutes, can in six hours cover the entire United States by passing over New York City, Dal!taJS, Phoenix, and Seattle. The colonel dramatized this point by exhibiting a map with black lines representing satellite orbits drawn on it. Almost the entire continental United States was blacked out. The number of enemy vehicles is predicted to increase from the present 3,000 to 10,000 by 1970. No Solutions The ADC operates a ·satellite tracking system which keeps track of .all objects in space at any time. This global network stretches from the United States to Turkey, Australia, the British West Indies, and Greenland. The Baker- Nunn camera, operated by the ADC, can recognize an object six inches in size at a distance of 3000 miles. A great deal of money is being spent on research on a defense system against satellite attack, but no solutions are currently in sight. 3 Professor Klemm Elected To Royal Institution Professor Frederick A. Klemm, Chairman of the Department of Modern Languages, has been elected to membership in the Royal Institution of Great Britain. PROFESSOR FREDERICK KLEMM College Council ••• Continued from Page 1 spected source of opinion, irts member- ship must include responsible, re- spected, and outspol<en students.\ Freshmen Hindered The Chairman of the Student Coun- cil Election Committee, Bob Marshall, is Cf)nvinced that the poor par-ticipa- tion in the referendum was not due entirely to student apathy, although Lt was, unfortunate~y, an imp{)rtant contributing factor. He attributed part of the problem to the scheduling of Freshman activities. During the most desirable voting hours, a large percentage of the freshmen are eating dinner at fraternities. Since previous vot:ng regulations only permitted the freshmen to cast ballots in West Col- lege, many of' them relinquished the privilege of voting in colege elec- tions because of the inconvenience in- volved. Rules Changed To partially alleviate this pt-ohlem, freshman pledges will now be permit- ted to vote at their respective fraterni- ties, if they so desire. The West Col- lege voting procedures wHl also re- main in effect. The Election Chair- man commented: \I can <m:ly urge students to take the spring election seriously and make a conscientious effort to get to the polls. Petitions for All-College Council representatives must be ,submitted to the Student Activities Office by 2:00 P.M., Friday, April 8. Elections will be held on the foll{)wing Thursday, April 14. The Institution, with headquarters in London, was foun<led in 1799 by Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumf0rd, who ten years previously had estab- lished experimentally that heat was another form of motion. Rumford's stated purpose of the Institution is the \pl'Omotion of science\ and '\diffu- sion and extension of useful knowl- edge.\ It :<ponson; lectures and ma- jot• sc:entific research among other activities. On Sabbatical Leave Prl>fe'ssor Klemm, on sabbatical leave this year, was conducting re- search on Count Rumford at the In- stitution when he was elected to mem- bership. Professor Klemm is a graduate of Dickinson Co!leg·e. He received a doc- torate in German from the Univer- sity of Pennsylvania. He has been a member of the Union College faculty since 1947 and department chairman since 1947. I.R.C. To Sponsor Debate On Vietna,m Union's International Relations Club will sponsor a faculty debate on \American AHernatives in Vietnam\ this Tuesday evening, March 22. It will be held at 8:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. Pro and Con Four professors will make state- ments opposing or supporting United States policy in Southeast Asia. Ap- proximately half ilie time will be de- voted to questions from the audience. Supporting government actions ·will be Alfred L. Thimm, associate pt·o- fessor of economics, and Charles G. Gati, assistant professor of political sc:ence. Those opposed to the United States policy in Vietnam will be Mal- colm R. Willison, assistant professor of sociology, and Edward Fox, a pro- fessor <>f mechanical engineering at Rmsselaer Polytechnic Institute. Officers Elected The International Relations Club hopes to sponsor similar meetings and symposia in the future. The club re- cently elected of'ftcers for the 1966-67 academic year. Those elected were: Mark Zauderer, president; Robert Fried, vice-president; and Carl Feigen- baum, secretary. CRITICAL DEFENSE POSITIONS MAMA BIANCHIS TIIU~ c~nlEI' JEWEIEI'$ ENGINEERS CHEMISTS PHYSICISTS The Solid Propellant Field Offers You- A challenging, enlightened, and rewarding future with opportunity for future study professional atmosphere, project re- sponsibility, and management experience. U. S. Naval Propellant Plant Indian Head, Maryland Interview date: 21 March 1 966 Interviews will be held on Campus. Contact your placement office for further information. Is God Dead? Hear •••• Dr. Myron Augsburger GREATER SCHENECTADY CRUSADE 7:30 p.m. every night this week through SUNDAY, MARCH 20 FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 209 Union St. Schenectady Crusade Choir All seats free Free parking Free nursery AMERICAN and ITALIAN FOOD COOKED TO ORDER Tuesdays and Thursdays Special HOMEMADE SPAGHETTI and MEATBALLS $1.00 1135 Barrett Street YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 SENIOR SEAMAN- RISE TO THE CALL! THE CLASS OF 1966 SENIOR SAIL Want More Details ? Then don't miss the Senior Class Meeting TUESDAY, MARCH 22,11:30 A.M. MEMORIAL CHAPEL ' ' J 1

4 Jazz: Union Group: From Bop To Modal Jazz This past M·onday evening, jazz \vas h.ea.rd on the Umon Colleg-e campus. Under the sponsor- ship of The Moving Finger, the Modern .Ja:zz Quin- tet ga\'e its fi.r'st concert since its for·m~ti0n in December. The group consists of Didc Poccia (tenor sax), Frank Darmiento (trombo111~ ), Mike Penna (bass), Neil Tischler (drums)', all(] Cliff Safane (piano). For this cancer·[, thr group's repei·tnj.pe was quite varied. The musical compositions ranged fran; bop to modal jnz;c. Such a \\'!de Sf.'iection ·Of mus1c allowed the qu1ntet to sat1sfy thoe many tast.Ps ·of the awli~nre. nnrl thns the g1:nup w:-~s able to conmnmi(·ate with all who att<>JHil'<l the COllCeJ•t. Tlw plnying- of thP qtJintPt w~s at a f:1il·i)· hig-h lc>vel of proficienry. As far a;; technique goe·~. all for by the third ot· fourth number e\'ervthing .,:eemed to be jelling. · Unsure The quintet also wa·s a little unsure of itself. After the melody of each tune was stated, there was slight uneasy pause with· everyone waiting to see who would start solo. HoweYet·, this is a fairly minor point and with a little more work on the quintet's behalf, such a weakness can easily bE' worked out. There were too many good solos during the concert to mention them all. HoweYN, some ue- serw r0cognition. TromboNist Darmienlo played a Yery good J. J. Johnson influenced solo on \Grovin High.\ But his best solo \\\as on hi::; nwn nrig.ina l ('Ompo·.<ition \l~oller Coaster.\ The excellence of the compos:tion should also be noted. Shown are members of the Union College Stage Baud. From left to right: Neil Tischler, !\like Penna, Cliff Safane, Frank l)anniento, and Dick Poccia. the soloists had a decent command of thei.r in- struments. They seemed to know their li.mita. tions as playet·s, and thus didn't try anything th~t they were sure they couldn't do well. There \\\ere a few things, however, that de- tracted from the f]Uintet's pel'formance. Fir-st, there wa::; a lack of cohesiveness bet-...l'een the membe1·s of the 1·hythm section. At the b~g-in­ ning- of the ronrert, the bnssist and dt-ul'!Uner weren't c.1mpletely together. Probablv th.is \Vas due to the lac-k of warming up before the conePrt, On the H1.1stings: Poccia, too, playe<i very well. His musical dia- logue with pianist Safane on \Blue 1\'[onk\ was humorous and effectively done. The terrorist's solo on Miles Davis' .. So What,\ however, \Vas a ·real g-em. It was a very strong performance which generated much excitment. This heightene-<1. by Poccia's execution of some really wild mHl emo- tion-filled John Coltrane-like runs. Pianist Safane acquitted himself admirably dur- ing the concert. His coming behind the soloists was quite good, but his really big moment came on \Blue Monk\ where he played an e:xcellent s0lo. The many jagg·ed phrase·s, unconventional rhythms, and discordant chords employed by Sa- fane showed a definite Thelonious Monk influence. The rhythm section of Penna and Tischler was solid as a rorlc after they had gotten past the first three or four numbers. Their steadiness en- abled Poccia, Safane, anod Darmiento to build some solid improvisations. The Moderm Jnzz Qu:ntet provided an enjoy- able ereHing- of music. I would suggest that any- one interested in jazz Sl·(' the group the next time that it pt•J·foJ·ms. Theat••rH Schenectady l'r,\-t\t '_,; ''Th\ .Siknc.·1 o\ '' :th D~an :IImbu, ''\' uf KL'ltlu,·ks\ SLth· ''Tlw Sp~ With Jly Fan~\ auJ \Tv Trav a Spy\ with Rohel'l \\aughn •md D<.~.Yid :\IrCullum Culuny '·Irma LaDuuc\ \\ itlt Jac:k Lemmull anLl Shire!,\ :\I<:Laim·, \Tum Ju11e~\ with Al- l.u..:rt Finne\' .'ic\ tia Art 'l!te..l te: \llu\\ :'\ ut tu Rllb a lJe- jJart:menl .stul'L' .. Lht• -T.t<:Z c,n, l'l t at l~<!lilclll Lounge--upper .::ilale ::> treet ( S uuuay, ti !J.Ill.) . J amaiea lmt--Discutheque Rol.'m Albany Tlwat t'l's l':t·!:u•,· -\Th<' Si!t·nct•r.,\ .,,·ith lkaJt :II aFt i:t, ''Wonderful Norway\ \l:u!ison- -\Do :\ ot Pisturbe\ with Doris Day, \l'p From Tlw llt•aeh\ with Cliff Robe1bon ~trnnd-\Thc Spy With 1\ly FacL•,'' \To Trap a !->py\ with Hobert Vaughn aJH! David Mr- C'ullum Theaters Troy Proctor's-\The Silencers\ with Dean Mm·tin Troy-\The Spy With My Face,\ \To Tl\ap a Spy\ with Robert Vaughn and David Mc- Cullum Cinema Art Theater-\Repulsion \ \Love On a Pillow\ with B.B. (Sat. at s:iiiJ Live Troy Armory-Friday, March 18-Shuw and Dance with James Brown, James Cr<.twfonl, The Fabulous Flames, BGbby Byrd, T.Y. Mama, Baby Lloyd Date Recommended Lion's Den-Vito Momone Trio For the Future R.P.I. Fieldhouse-Ice Capades-March 22 thru March 27 Friday, March 18, 1966 There's An Aardvark Wa~iting Jus.t For You,- By Barry Newman ltoughly six hundred Union students picked. up \Operati0n Match\ personality tests during the ~ past two weeks. They snuck them into note books and scurried away into dark corners, or laughed and jo·ked about them in the corridors, being very sure to seem totally uninterested in, or only cas• • ually curious about, computer mating. But a couple of days late1·, when their note- books happened to fall open to the \Match\ ques- tionnaire during their more challenging classes, usuaiiy dubbed \How I Became A Teacher Be- ' fore I Lenrned How To Talk,'' many students be- gan to seriously ponder the questions contained in that little booklet. The quiz itself is not very ex:cJting. Except for two provocatively intertwined male and fem:vle symbols on the covet·, the con- tE'nts appear p~rfectly innocent. Yet the queries, if answered honestly, are enough to classify any- one as a suitable date few some of the fair young , th mg~ whl'l hnve already placed their orders with the computer. A Little Hedging Answering the que~tionnaire honestly, however, d''l::utd< rP~'l \\'illpo\\'el·. Th,·rc :tn't·l't many stu- dt'nt·~ at l'nion, <~ftc'!' all, who can .shamelessly ·ex· ]JPt'l any g-irl in ihP C:n·at Xorthca:;t to go out \\'ith th~m if thf'y fill out the fol'm without hedg- j.ng a little here, and fibbing a little there, any m;1ylw Iring n lot seompwhHr p]se. Consider your- \\'~'· ,Jumping- in the back of the lecture hall at :th•>tlt !)::iO :\.:\1. one :\Ion(by mo-rning, contem- Jr!::t-i:l~· tlw \:\J.atl'h\ f:11·nt instead of reclaiming ~··•Ill' .<tr L n ;;h·L'IJ, or eursing yourself for getting ou: .,f ht·d in tlw first place. F(!lr twenty zilinutes Y\';J· :tarc>, incJ'P(lulou\ at the ljUe':>tions. Then tli<· : ,,tJ:zation hits you you are nothing but a J'''IHJ]sin, hateful, dirty-old-man . Always Wrong! Ttt> b,•ginnin); of thl' form is a dnch. You arc Yit'l 1 .t:t!l~ ,.,.!fain th:tt you :ne a male. You are ::~hdy !.•,,-; ct·rtain, hut ~till confident, that you attmd a four year college. As far as religion and 1 :tee an concerned, WL' all know that Cnion is 1: •n-dutuminatimtal, so ;1uu write in \ethnic\ and feel terrible about it. Then you are asked about your cu'Jleg-e \class.\ This is beginning to get personal. You object strongly to the caste sys- tem, but put down \Lower mkldle class\ to save face. Next, your height. Close your eyes and cir-cle \five feet or under.\ Your age: take a deep breath and mark in \26 or 27.\ lt hurts, but it doesn't cut to the quick yet. Section II is ca:lled \Interests.\ There is a Ji.st of fi:fty-five different activities to be interested in, but you can only manage to mark bowling and t0levision-and you're not really very interested in bowling. Now the going gets rougher. Section IIf, ''Attitudes,\ want~ to know about religion 'Togo Town Girl Challenges The System ·_. ·',:~;'\·'' ' ''···· ·. >; ·:.' ,. ,_,.,_,,..,,,~-,~~>~:~t\''''!c%:''::; ,.,,.,,,., '~'\': .,,.,,~ .. ,.•. '\<' .. ,, '''''':'' - ,,,~-,-,,,,, '\'~~':· o':~''':t\::'S:M:it':\)2'B'~E%':\';:.e'0:lt'''l¥'W?.ifu1&1Jt:; :·:· .::: .... :,. .. ::·.:~ :: .::...:;;;;I,;;;;;;;;;:;tr;~)@jiDj[,;,';;:';.;;::~.:t.lttL;;~tf~G,;,;::,._,.;,... By Jlichae I )' 0 udov in L . ------- . A num?er of u.s have followed to!() by one of the principal's secre- Dalrymple poin!etl out that Saratoga elsewhere as to the kind of clothes 11.: with consalerable !ntert's~ the case tar1e:s that she could not attend High s~hool is located in a series anyone should wear ... Why must THE AARDVARK Qf a Saratoga Sprmgs H1gh School class-es dressed as she was and so of brand new building-s and that Mr. people in the GrPat t.:n:te>d States coed, Sharon Ann Dalrymple, who she was sent home. The next day Orodny had told them that he want- of Ameri 'll be S'> narrow as to limit went to sc~ool0ne cold day last Jan- Sharon again wore slacks to school Pd his school to be a \showcase.\ any individual as to His or Her man- nary wearmg· .slacks and.w~s prompt- b~t with the tempera.ture having Then Sharon let us know just what ner of dress. Let rour daughter b~ 1~ sent home hy h~r prmc1pal. The chrnoe~ a~! the way to e;ght degrees, kind of a showcase her hi·gh school herself. (That's all that matters\). g1rl and hE'r fmmly contested the the prmc1pal was even more ada- really is. It appeared to us as if Shawn pt·incipal's artion _an([ the other day n11tn~ al!out his prohibition again~t It' boasts floor to ceiling olack- Ann was being herself despite the ~ew York. Com!lliSsJonPr of Edura- sla..clu m the classroom. Agam boards the bottom three fe€t of widespread publicity she is getting. t1on ruled 111 their favor. Sharon was sent home. whieh are utterly us~less (excep-t in She seemed singularly unnff~c-ted by ~ow that the matter appeared tu At this puint Mrs. Dalry-mple call- the case of mdget teachers). The the fact that her name and her pic- '>c settled we thought it mig-ht pru\.: <'d :hr State Education Department l>la_dd>Oanls the~ns~lves lwve a pe- ture are turning up in some of the \\'Orthwhile t<> dr:n• up tu Saratuga to Lnd out if 1\Tr. Orodny, Saratoga cullar charaetensltc: they can't he nation's most important papez•s. Ob- and interY.iew Sharon and her family High's pl'incipal, was acting within washed. The 1vaste huskt>ts in many viously a shy girl, she tended to ourseJv,•s. WP cleared the idea with the lc.m· hy keeping her daughter out rooms douhll• as l10stels fur field remain rather quiet throughout the our new ehiE'f, requisition!'d one of of cl4SS. She was -advised that ill- mi.ce. Of the fom· buildings in the whole interview. our st~rr· car.s. ancl went up Rout.• ness was the on!;~-· legal justification r\OmplPx already in use, three of Finally after nearly an hour and iO to tlw Dalrymple hom<'. by \1-hich a student might be burred tlwm some hOI\' nen'I' grow warmer a half of conversation we re.sponded l'pun ~uTi·. iu~; at our destination frt>m the classroom. !1<1i·s. Dalrymple t~an_:;:,' · ~:trntnga Hig-h'~ n:ost rlis- properly to Mrs. Dalrymple's ques- we we1e greeted by :.\lr,;. DalrymJJl~ c,,nyryed this message to :\1r. Or·>dny tmctJVP f.•nturf', hn\WVt>r, IS Jt;; color tion as to whether or not we had and Sharun, \\ltom \·c fuunu tu ue, but ltc still refused to hark Jow11 ~c·hcrnP: nranc;e doors \\hich open gotten enough information for our ,·,mtr·ary t .. Jth>:>L uf her piL·Lut·es in fr()m his pusition. mt 0 PP~ gTI?en rl:t,;sroom::. story; we said that we had and we •>Lher He\\ \''\l>el';,, a lllust atlrad;ve Soon tht' who\10 matter ll'<IUL:etl In tlw course uf our dbcu:;sion thanl•ed Loth her and her family for yuung lad,\. :\It\· Dalrymple led us i ~;eel[ tu a shuwd()\\'ll bdween a ~~~~- :\It·;;. Dalrymph• .sh·o\ved us a large giving us so mucl1 of their time. into a \eQ· hun.ey living room witere gil! f.<ulli'ly anJ the Board uf Edut.:a- J.i·l<' of newspaJ><'T dippings, letters, Then we were on our way. we m.ule •>u: ;:,,·he,; eutufortablc and Lull uf the L'nl.ugeJ Cit~· S~.:hool Db- :ttHl document.-; \\hic\1 she had ac- As we drove hum<) frum the ,unJu,·letl ullt inletvie•w. Although Lrid <Jf Lte City uf Saratoga Spring;;. ,·umulalt>d sin,·e her daughter wore Dalrymple's we found that we all it wa.s prit11at;ly Sharon in whom F:nal.l)· a htarlng- with the Com- slacks tu sdtuul. s·hal'<Jll\s ca,;c was shared the same impressions. We we were inter t.:sl<·d, :\In;. Dalrymple ntissioner of Educatiuu wa.s ~<:hcJ- I e,e:ving nation.tl altl)ntion even Le- c:early saw that neither Sharo11 ret.:ounLL!tl fur u.s the brief historv of ule<l. Both sides rallied thL\ir IL•ga·l fore it reached the Euucation Com- nor her mother was a rabble-rou.ser, itt>t' daughter's case. ' forces and elaborate briefs were pre- missioner's office. O·ne of the let- and that the stir caused by Sharon's 1 1ared. regarding a school board's ters Mrs. Dal!ymple showed us came wearing slacks was, well, simply out 6 Degrees It all began last January 27 when the temperature was six degrees aoove ZE'ro. When Sharon returned to school after an illness, with over a mile to walk between her home and the school, Sharon was advised by her mother to wear slacks. Wben Sharon arrived a·t school she w:a:s +ffYfTtT.....,..,....'TT t•ig ln to pr(}hibi t the wearing of from a wom:.tn in Hamilton, Ohio. of proportion to the situation. But slad:s by recuperating students in Written in purple ink on .a sheet of there was one particularly point on mar zero weather. Last Tuesday, yellow paper tom from a legalized which we agreed most strongly: the t-l1e Commissioner, in a seven-page pad, the letter read in part: \Ful'th- devastating effect on one's senses of deeision, gave Sharon pe-rmission to ermore, if there are men on the passing through orange doors into V\'ear slacks to school. Board of Education they probably pea green classrooms would be con- We asked both Sharon and her wore dresses in the beginning. Wa;s siderably softened by such sights mother why the principal had ruled that improper dress? There were as Sharon Ann Da'lrymple in her out slacl<s in the first place. Mrs. never any laws made in the BibJe or well-tailored slacks. honor, all you can honestly answer is \unimpor- tant\ for ·some and \don't know\ for the rest. Aft- CJ' that comes a bunch of demot·alizing situations, and somehow you know that you always react the wrong way and think the wrong things. Beginning to Sweat You are befuddled, confused, and beginning to ~weat. At fir~t. l'art Two seems like an Oasis-- it is called \9ent'ral Information.\ But when you s~art to put 1.11 your answers, the world caves in. r ou never .drmk, you1· g-rade·s are below C-, you me. _a tacJ~UI'!'l,, non-J'Pading, athletically inept, polrtt.cally md1fl.erent, child hating, conforming, emotiOnal, ung-roomerl creep. Your hair is mousey brown a.nd _not all there, your eyes are mud<iy, yoU!' Oll.l)d IS fat, and members of the Opposite .:oex cons1.der you unattraet1 ,.e to say the least. There. ts onlr one ~·ecourse-lie about absolutely ever~ thJIIg: or faee hfe 1n a monastery. Rush out uf the lecture hall, and over to your dorm. Grab i-'~H~ral \:\Iatci1\ forms, and with insidious preci- ~tun, bcg111 to rencate your being. In one, for lllstance, yuu ar·e the complete lecher. In another you are :.t Lic:t geuius w!th blGnd hair, blue eyes, n. fantas tie outld, and gumg to a presteige school. \\ nu demand uncomprumising perfection in all your d:ttcs. The scheme is cons.ummate! ThP forms :JJ'e mailed out. You nervously await that lu:-C'iou·~ list of ideal femininit3· all of whom are lusting madly fur you. At la;t, it is here, and you I'Ush to the telephone and call the most sensuous sounding Cliffie on your list of two hundted and sixteen names. She accepts and in a flash _you are thumbing your way to' Boston. You a.rnve doggedly at her dorm. In minutes she is descending the stair!'!. Here she is the most exquis.ite girl in the yv01·ld-fat, ugly, ~d utterly repulstve. Once agam, Operation Match is suc- c~ssful-;-a p~rfectly compatible pair of thoroughly dtsgustmg !Jars DEWITT'S R-EDWOOD DRIVE IN Cafeteria and Taj) Room LARGEST SELECTION Of CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Fine Food and legal Beverages Dark.Room Supplies- Jewelry- Gifts- Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 118 · 120 JAY STilEET 19.57 FOSTER AVENUE 2688 HAMBURG STREET- 5 Min from College I-IOTDOGS with Famous Sauce ClfARCOAL HAMBURGERS and CHEESEBURGERS 10 Oz. Charcoal Broiled Steak Dinner-1.35 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK ~ ....................... 4.,4 11 :00 A.M. - 12:30 P.M. Sun. - Thurs. Till 2:00 A.M. Tues 44A4•1 4444*A444A444444+AAAA4 i 'I Friday, l ,) \ 1 111 .J ., .. I , B • The n the ver~ at llniot tember. year v.ri C0Ul'Se d , meeting! and the The atfa propo>:al org::mizh program Mr. C:: comm:tt< for depa: \\ 1:1 th rnu . ..;t he (JJ·oppPd guage re toward t in foreig yond th1 Stude11b take tht· level; th nuw. Th language quiret! to Pwf CU!Ticula has \a n and thin] be very E CouJ'se categoric needed fc mum of sive educ take two tention c discipline cializing es, will l buton eot courses. faction w be plenty non-majo Professor cular aff: we propo scheme tl the old m alleviated Under ing a cer1 Incoming coutses, c ences Cen neering ( students 1 different and third take two posite cen tion com·~ back to a required . courses a1 sive educ courses w: own cente of approa, emphasize do not me tory one. engineerin ities centE students, tioned, thl coutses, tl have quitE them. The con which the next year here now, the progr; pected to \3-3\ pl'O! vide inforn Next year· to gradual two semes: to \conver Advisers v riving at 1 ticipating their courl ation requ The indivi1 course is t two course ates who graduation Students dropping c clear their ing plans t school this \The new out and it because of Schmidt sa or studentf the Facult: register fo of the thre ·will have student's f to the Reg the past l opti<m to 1 be require( same unde1 \There -v two years Nelson p,oiJ with it.'

18, 1966 Friday, March ~18, 1966 ~· ·i You,- picked up the ~ books laughed very only cas• • l ' Three- Three Explained By Registrar By Lawrence R. Spivack note- ques- g classes, • . , acher Be- be- The new changes in the curriculum and in the very structure of the liberal arts concept at llnion College, wiH go into effect next Sep- tember. The change'S, including a three term year 'Nith no Saturday classes and a 3-3-3 course distribution, were fina1'ly reached at two contained not very the con- quel'ic'S, any- young , •ders with however, nany stu- ·ex- go out out hedg- any ider your- hall at , contem- getting Jilin u tes ns. Then but a You are You are that you and Cnion i::; and about to get sys- \ to save eyes and : take a lt hurts, is a list rested in, and Section religion Aft- tuations, the to Oasis- hen you in. you y inept, forming, muddy, opposite least. out Grab preci- one, for another eyes, school. in all ly await whom is here, most of two , and in Bo'ston. utes she most utterly is suc- . meetings. of the curricular affairs committee and the faculty on February 24 and March 1. The affairs committee, which made the original proposal,; on the new progr·am, served as an orgnnizing body and final correlator of the program. Outline Finished Mr. Cnh·in Schmidt, Registrar, said that the comm:ttee has appro¥ed an outline 0f courses for departments and for majors. _.\ 1:1 th, pn·H·n.t cuursv requhem~nt.s which rnu:<t hP fil.kd Ly th~ C uiuu ;;tudeut wi.U b~ <lroppPd with ~hl' t:Xc~ptiun of tlw .foreign lan- ~uage requirement. Students who are working toward their B.A. wiH take a one term course in foreign literature or· adv:wrcd language be- yond the present inte1·mediate rc<:~uirement. Student.:; \\'orking tcmard their B.S. will only take tlwir lang uagc study tu an illlermediatc level; the e<rui·\·alt:nt uf the prugmm we have now. Those :;tudeub who have finished their language t·equit·emt•nt this year .will nut be n~­ quiret! to continue it under the new program. \Challenging Thing\ Professor Henry Fet·guson, member of the curricular affait·s· committee, feels that Union has \a n•ally ,·hallC'nging thing- eoming along\ and thinks that th,. n~w pn•gra111 \i going t•J be very exciting.\ Courses in the IW\\' ~y:;tem will be in three categoric,;. ln the fir~t category at·e the cout·ses needed fol' majors; they will t·omprise a mini- mum of 12 com·ses out of 3G. The comprehen- sive education courses, of which students must take two each year, will be given with the in- tention of exposing the student to academic disciplines differing from the area he is spe- cializing in. The third category, elective cours- es, will be ta·king the place of ,present distri- buton courses, yet they will not be introductory courses. They have been prompted by dissatis- faction with the old system. \There seemed to be plenty of indicati(}n that students looked on non-major courses as a kind of headache,\ said Professor Hugh Nelson, member of the curri- cular affairs committee. \We thought when we proposed the new comprehensive education scheme that one of the major difficulties under the old method, the coercion element, would be alleviated.'' New Requirements Under the ne\v system students will be tak- ing a certain number of courses in each center. Incoming freshmen will take .two commons coutses, one in the Humanities and Social Sci- ences Center and one in the Science and Engi- neering Center. The theory here being that students should be aequ.ainted w1~h a discipline different from their own. During the second and third years, sophomores and juniors must take two term courses in each year in the op- posite center in a comprehensive education op- tion cour'se. Seniors will probab!;y be brought back to a final commons course which will be required. These commons courses and options courses are an integral part of the comprehen- sive education program. Students in these courses will be given an introduction into their own center as well a·s another, from the aspect of approach and philosophy. Mr. Schmidt has emphasized, however, that these introductions do not mean that a course will be an introduc- tory one. On the contrary, the course that an engineering student might take in the Human- ities center would be geared for engineering students, etc. One must 1·emernber, he cau- tioned, that while on paper these may be set coul'ses, the professor teaching the course will have quite a bit of freedom in personalizing them. The comprehensive education system under which the new program will run, will start with next year's freshman, but students who are here now, will, in varying degrees, be put into the program. Present freshmen will be ex~ pected to register fol' the regular sophomore \3-3\ program, and major adviser'S will pro- vide information about the course requirements. Next year's juniors (Glass of 1968) may elect to graduate under present requirements, less two semester courses in the next twv years, or to \convert\ to \3-3\ program requirements. Advisers will be able to assist students in ru·- riving at this decision. Students who are an- ticipating graduation in 1067 ·should schedule their courses so as to meet 1965-1966 gradu- ation requirements, less one semester course. The individual departments will decide which course is to be omitted for seniors and which two courses are to be omitted by 1968 gradu- ates who choose to come under the 1965-66 graduation requirements. Irregular Students Students who are irregular (i.e. students dropping courses or failing) would be >vise to clear their records of these deficiencies. Mak- ing plans to make up these courses in summer school this coming summer would be advisable. \The new program does not afford an easy out and it doesn't wipe anything off the books because of the diminished course load,\ Mr. Schmidt said. Only ·some engineering students or students witl1 perm~ssion from the Dean of the Faculty or Registrar will be permitted to register for more than three courses in any of the three terms. A petition for an overload · will have to receive the endorsement of the student's faculty adviser prio1• to suhmi'Ssion to the Registral'. Dean~s list students, who in the past have automatically been given the option to take an extra course, will probably be required to have a higher index to do the same under the new system. \There will be plenty of problems the first two years with the new system,\ Professor Nelson p,ointed out, \! hope people are patient with it.' 5 F'aculty Column: A New Style For Foreign Policy The following article- is the second ot\ a. L wo part series. Pt·ofessor Finkelstein is chairman of the History Department and is presently on sabbatical at Simmons College, in Boston. By Professor Joseph Fiakelstein Imagination has not been our strong point these many month·s. It has taken us more than a generation in tillle, ·and a legion of crises to understand western Communism, to deal 1vith it, and to live with it. On the o.ther side of the globe, we sometimes admit our lack of understand- ing a,nd almost alway's show it. Against th.e intensity and poverty of the Asiatic we show only a barely concealed dislike. When in doubt sup')lor:t a local General Ol' .strongman-at least in the short-run their manllers seem better, and their language more famHiar to us. Until our State Department recruits its personnel from wider social strata, and respects professional abilities more highly, this bias is built into American policy. But there io; more than this. Where is the State Department? Altho.ugh Secretary Rusk 1·ery ably defended the Ad·ministration ''s policy i11 the hearings be]ore the Senate Foreign Relations Ct>mmittee, one cannot put out of mind the oft-repeated comment related by historian Artlmr Schlesinget• Jr. of John F. Kennedy that he (Kennedy) thought Mr. Rttsk pretty devoid of imagina.tive ideai:l un foreign pol- ic-y. The strictut·e on l\Ir. Ru.sk is so widespread because it sounds some o.f Gut' own suspect thoughts. Where ar·e the doZt!ll George Kenmm's whom we so badly need for direction uf 'long- range problems? At the present time lht!y don't Ul'l'LIPY de:<ks in the I>t!partflleHI. ,,f .State. l1er- haps thE> C.I.A. looms s0 suspiciously con-spictwu·s because there is more of a. vacuum cl:;ewlwre. Perhaps we ought to be lllol'e, nut lcs.s, gn.1teful to ~f'rrPbry of Ddt>nse ::\kX':unara ur Geaer:xl T:1yl»r. Th,·y ha\'t• g'i\'<·11 u.' ·'\we J;rectioa '<l'llefl din <'!ion \f any kind \Ia:< :ut imperative. Medic Pfc. Thomas Cole tends the needs ()f fellow G.I. Harrison Bell, both casualties of the war iu Vietnam. Foreign Student: Fairy Tale Fades Away By .Peter Eberltard Because Americans, by experience, do not es- pecially like to be criticized by foreigners ~nd because I do not want to give S(}me student:s at Union more opportunity to call me \dirty fme1gn- er ,\ I decided not to write a.bout any Amer-i~a.n pl:'oblems from the European :point of view. In- stead, for a change, I would like to be as nation- a:istic as possible and examine the problems <>f a small country \somewhere\ in Europe. At tb.e same time I not only escape the question of ·COin· pete.nce and the dange1· of being ethnocentric, bat I also hope that I ca11 clarify certain misunder- standings commonly held about Switzerland. \How Clean\ Americans h-ave often told me that I live in 2 nice country with beautiful mountains. \How clean everything is,\ they say. \People are S'() friendly.\ He stayed two days in Innshrucl(, no, that was in A US TRIA ... I mean INTERLAK- EN. What is the name of that mountain?\ {-and they start to describe the railway going up to the top). Because you ought to be friendly, you h'avE to answer the question (for the 2081 time·!? ) \TunO'frau\ is the name and it means virgin. Usuaily people are S>atisfiecl with this .kind of answe1·. Be:ieve me or n(}t, I S'tarted to like any- one who was able to spend a whole evening without mentioning wat.,hes and cheese in my presence. S\'·itzerland is not a fairy-talc lane!; it has its problems. Besides the crisis in the polit!cal system, Switzerland's main pr(}blem is caused by the large numbers of foreign laborers in the country. Rince the end of the war, from 1945, to the present, Switzerland has continued to take more and more foreign \VDrkers into its in- rlustries to furthPr its economic and industrial goals. Most of the lal>orers come from Southern Italy, an inr1·easing number from Spain, ann a relntive,ly small numher from Greec-e, Portugal, and Turkey. Wi,th few exceptions, these peo- ple have only a grammar s~hoo' eduration. In their country, they belonged to the lowest social classes and were in many cases unemployed. Lacking training in any skiUed occupation or industry, most of this labor force is to be found in the lowest positions. Switzerland's economy, viewed superficially at least, mirrors wealth and prosperity. In world trade, this small country ranks among the twelve leading nations, and the living standard is tne third highest in the world. Along with the high per capita income and finishing with flourishhlg- touri.sme, one could draw a beautiful picture o<f a. healthy country if ... Foreign Workers ... if there were not 700,000 foreign worker,; doing most of the so-called dirty work This number was the fixed limit set by the goverrunent in 1965. (The year before, in 1964, there 'Were nea.Tly 800,000 foreign workers in Switzerland). Compared to the total S'wiss po.pulations of only- six million, this number is exceedingly high, and without having· exact figures, one can easily- imagine how much they contribute to the t<>ilal production. Under government immigration laVJs, they are allowed to stay only for a restrietecl pe1·iod of the year (up to 10 months), looving their families at home. After five yeavs. Qf \good behavior,\ they are allowed to take re·si- dence with their families. In industry, the for- eign workers are employed under the same condi- tions as the Swiss (salaries, social services, etc.) which would favour their settlement. Problems The prO<blems caused by this unstable variable in·employment and the dependence of our economy on them, are rendered more difficult because of the often conservative and anti-industry policies of the government. Up to now, bhis unfajr system seemed to function well, from t.he government's point of view, but a change has l>egun to occur in the labor force. More and more, the foreign countries are becoming able to employ most {)f theil· own people, so Italians are replaced now by Greeks and Turks. Cynics have suggested ex- panding our \help program to developing coun- tries,\ to Afrioa and filling our factories with an African labor force. On the social level, the most -visible 1lymptom indicating problems is the actual housing situa- tion. The workers suffer most from this problem in that they live under very :poor conditions. In recent year, a prejudice towards these foreign workers has built up; a prejudice suffie- Ll ff ient to consign the group to poor housing. Italian sections in the large cities o,f Switzerland are today <:hara.cteristic of those in the USA. One can see that the problem h;:ts its effects on different levels, very much like the problems caus- ed by minorities in the United States. Oontrury to th1s Cl}untry, any solutions to the problem may endanger the independence of Switzerl•and be- cause of its strong relation to po1it1cal economy. Today 'Switzerland can be easily put under econ- omic pres.sure because of these mentioned weak points. The intervention of the Italilan foreign ministry in social matters a few ye>ars ago indi- cated this C'learly. Forces tending to unify Eur- ope, on an economic basis, are likely to use, among other ways, t:1ese methods. For Switzerland, a S>olution to th.e problem in the near future can be found in ])etter treatment of the foreign workers by the popuJ.ati:on, and in a drastic change of the immigrotion policy by the government. Unf(}rtunately, only a few people are ready for a ch·ange In national policy and even less thin!( of the possibility of becoming a member of an associa.tion of states in Europe. Neglected Peril And ~o \\'P will makf' pnliti('~] drri;;ion,;. We will sti('k thing-~ tflg-rthf'l\ \\'it h \~cnt<·h\ t:qw and hopE' for th<' hf'st. If our Jl~ litiral style i.> so lumpy, thE>re remains the furtlwr bastirm o.f .:\.mer- iran pnliry-Frnnomir A irl. How many h:Jlion.s will it bkl?? How m:1ny billions will it tal-;c in economic aid to correC\t political gerry-building? How many eggs equal one apple? Our wealth will flow into this area in such a flood that even the anl' ient overflow of thP :-J ile must se-Pm n trickle by comparison. If lll'~>lll')/ <'<Ill l't·plal'e ('O('O- nut pa·lms, tlwy will uc reph1ceJ. lf the jungle can be made productive by Aml•l·ican krww-hm\', grow 1t shall. We an' dPtPJ'mined to ch> all this. Only let us use the skills and knowl<>dgP avaibble from the many Americans who have worked .jn under-developed areas, from t:nited Nations .spe- cialists, from those g-ifted individuals who wo1:k fur th~ lntematiunal ilank for Rel!unstt·uction aJJd Development, from the offices of A.I.D.; l~i u.s hope that all these resources will be used, alld let us hope further that the ove1·-concentration ()f economic aid in this single area will not cause irreparable damage in other less ·sensitive, but not less crucial places. Is India less pressing, 8lld less deserving of our help? Have we neglected to our g1·eat peril the world beyond Vietnam? For many months now, Viet- nam ha'S overtaken and theu overwhelmed evel'y other American interest abroad. To the rest of the world we seem incapable of handling not ()llly this one P,roblem 1 but of having- jettisoned evel'y other foretgn pohcy concern. A great power, and we are a great power, has many interests. Some- how its policies and its actions must be flexible and dynamic enough to contain all, or at least, most of them at the same time. Obviously we have not been able to do this. We have abandoned the rest of the world while we have gone olJr way in Vietnam. Congo Policy? In Europe the NATO alliance is coming apa1t at the seams. We do not wish to argue the moot question whether in the event of a direct Soviet attack the NATO system would work-it probably would. WD.at is clear however is that from .a Eu- ropean point of view not only is President De- Gaulle ~ght~ but h~ is prophetic. In the presence of a situatJOn whrch threatens American self- interest, we bhmk out any European awareness. This Gaullist view is going to last now a l()ng long time, lf?ng after Vietnam a.nd even perhaps pe Gaulle himself. Nor is our position improved. m other pm·ts of the world. In our concern with Vietnam, we so boldly and arrogantly handled the Santo Domingo crisis as to re-awaken the sus- p,icion ~nd hostility of much of Latin America. l he All!ll;fice for Progress creaks and creaks, lmt the prom1se of Punta del Este is not much neat•et· fr~:ution. than it was half a dozen year's ago. h this Writer's calculus, one suoh mistake as San,to Domingo is redeemable only by years of new effort. Such costly effort will have to be mad() in those years after Vietnam. What of Africa? Do we have a policy? No one seems to speak to it? Since the Congo, we hav1! been walking on tip-toe hoping and hoping t.hat nothing will happen,. Our luck has been un•usualls good, but seems nght now to be running ollt, 'f'hro!Jghou~ the I;Jear East, the balance of peace Is fr1ghtemmgly msecure. There is little reason to. think there cafi be any permanent stability 1n th1s area. We are ftaiikly worried over the con- cept of a Near Eastern arms balance between Israel and the Arab States. Onlr one trigger- h,appy official can easily upset 'such a balance. F urthe_r alo~g, we have not lost the friendship of !ndia entnely but largely because of her ma- tunty, rather than our diplomatic successes. Oj' ~!Jkarno's Indonesia-all is chaos. The Phillip- llmes .are un~II;PPY with our Asian policy. Japan rs q~uetly critiCal. We have loSit more than a pr~c10us decad.e in coming tO' grips with Red Chma, and until we come to grips 1vith her politi- cally and diplomatically, the eu:rse of nuclear wa1· of the m~st prit;titiye destructiveness hangs o\leJ' the promise of life m this century. After Vietnam Vietnam will one day be over. Who will at•ott'Se us ~owards a ne:v direction in our world-wide affairs? . Who will pr<>mote sit-ins towards a greatly mcreased flow of economic aid to un-der- developed countries? Will students mai·ch i 01 lower Ame1•ican tariffs? Will faculty members be as eager to talk on undramatic themes? Will the~e be anyone at om· colleges and univemitie.s,. o~ m our State Department thinking and plan- umg .maturely fo·r the long, long run? After the fightmg stops, what new cause will fling us about.? Peace is so uninteresting. The touglJ techmcal problems draw no audiences and few editorials. Catching a tiger by the tail is dangel\- ous ~~t exhilarating. What w~ so. desj)erat~l;y need IS a new style to our foreign hfe and less moral indignation. Perhaps here and th~re a few individu~ls will preserve something of that 'awa 1 ·e- ness whtch has been so wonderfully educational' during the past few months. . :

6 Publlslled Fridays du<lng the school year by the Student Body of Union College. Schenectady. ~- 1'. N'a· tiona! Advertising Represent-ative· Natlona I Advert ising Service; Inc .. Collece Publishers RepresenNtllve 420 Ma-dison Ave .. N. Y. C. RUll'f:!t'l' STULZL!Elt<l . ; 7 .. ROHER1' ROSE:-.:TJJAL '11: 00:-.:ALTl S<\HWAHTZ '<;7 l'Al'L SHEin\'!:-; 'G7 ~fORTY KAl\IZA~ 'll7 ,\:\;;DHJ.~W <'<ILH 'll7 .. F.dlturtal Offtc·e, Old LlYfll, llnlon C'o!IE'g~. Publication Offi<'P, Sche· nectady P1·intlng Company, 602 Brnarh.,·ny. EntE\red in· the Sche~ nprtarly Post 0 ffice as Second Clase :-Jail !.latter. SubscriJJtion 15c a l'OPY' $g a year dPliverPd nnywhP.rP in the UnitE-d Stntes -- .\!0-j~l:l~ . :! 4 (':.~I f)·,!) ... nJ:!-043:~ h~t11 ltH-~m-Ciut:'( Bu:..:inPs:-; ~[nn:u~·er ~funaging Editor• Ft>ll 1 Ul\t> Elllt.IJ]\ ~PWS Rditor Sports Etlitor And Still Apathy - ; . . . . . . ·~ ·. ' . ~' . . . . '· RESU:L'l'S OF A.C.C. VOTE IN FAVOR • • • • • • 442 OPPOSED • • • • • • 35 DIDN!IT CARE • • • ••• 776 . ; . . \' . . ' ; . . ' -. ' ' ' . ~ ' . -~ . .. .. . On Tuesday night one-third of the campus decided to ratify the Charter of the All College Council. It was ap- proved. by an overw11elming majority, proof that the stu- dents who voted are willing to assume the burdens of self- government. This is, in itself, a step forward of the great- est magnitude for U Ilion. But it is unfortunate that two-thirds of the student body did not take the eftort to voice their opinion. At a school which is tryil:1g so desperately to escape from the apathy that has plagued it for so long, this is a severe set-back. Here, in the clearest terms, two-thirds of the student body refused to ex.IJress themselves, refused to take a stand. Was this because they did not care? or did not know? or perhaps were jl!st too interested in their ~avorite TV program? There is no clear-cut answer to th1s. But what is .clear is that these men did not live up to the re- sponsibility placed before them. This act of apathy can- n<Dt be interpreted eKcept to mean that they, the very same students who have been complaining about the oppressive hand of administrati-ve rules and regulations, are not wil- ling to make their desire for self-rule known. But this does not totally negate the choice that was made by those who did vote. And the student body must now tum its attention to producing the best possible con- stitution for the Council. This constitution will, hopefully, eliminate some of the loopholes in the present Charter. Primary change will be the elimination of the Student Board of Review which shall pass judgment upon prospective members-at-large. Wbile substantive t€sts, such as limiting it to members of the junior and senior classes and placing a minimum index requirement, will be useful, there should be no op- portunity for any group to have a veto over the candidates. The delineation of authority between the Dean of Stu- dents, the Faculty Council, and the All College Council must also be clarified. In particular, social regulations should be placed under the aegis of the new body. In addition, then should be strenuous activity on the part of those sponsoring this measure to ensure greater student interest. At the very least, th-et·e should be a series of open meetings at which the draft of the new constitu- tion can be discussed by any student. The All College Council has taken its first step, albeit a faltering one. It is now up to the entire student body to ensure that it will gain in vigor. Social Rules During the next few weeks, there is going to be ex- tensive discussion of the social rules. 'l\he Student Council Committee on Soc.ial Rules has already sllggested several very moderate prop()sals. They were essentially the re- quest that women be allowed in the dormitories for several hours a week. There is little question that these proposals should be accepted. 'But they are the very minimum. In the corning neetings of the Student Council, the representatives must make absolutely clear to the adminis- tration what their ultimate demands are. The body should lay its cards on the table. Only in this manner, can it pre- vent a. partial and unsatisfactory liberalization to occur with its apparent blessings. This is not to say that it should expect immediate action on all its proposals, but the pro- posals must be there. The CONCORDIE:NSIS expects that the basis for any responsible alteration of the social rule will take as its first principle that anyo11e admitted to Union is mature enough to decide his GWn morality. We recognize that no action is totally devoid of social implications, but there is a line, however fuzzy, between actions that are primarily personal and those wllich are essentially social. No matter how widespread the general opprobrium of an action may be, if it falls within tl:te first general category, all legal hindrance should be rernO\'ed. If it falls in the second, the regulations are just. The chance to em-erge from the duplicity which the present .social rules have forced upon the student body is now bere. Changes as basic as these will not be granted without effort on the part of the students. They must vigorously seize the op:portunity. Friday,. March 18, 1}~66 Letters To The Editor Comme11t To the Editor: I I I I paper is an independently run or- gulization ·sub.ie-ct to no school In last week's Faculty Colum:n control (e.g., Williams Record), Professor Finkelstein, speaking at Union, Concordy is subsidized of the open debates on the Viet by .stlid~mt tax:es and thus respon- Nam wal' which have been taking sible to ·the college. Three years place on college campuse•s and on ago,. after a <Ju•rse word leaked television, says \Let us aslc <JUI\- into a quote in Concordy, the selves w:hethN any other gov€rn- newStpa.per was forced to operate · ment in the entire world w<Jul\<l under stricter l'egulation and the have allowed any of this?\ Pu.bl·ica.tions Board came into ex- 1 istence. (a similar .attempt at lllo'l Remarks 'ro the Editor: the GONCORDIENSIS is sur- , Beforoe all this furor concerning passed in magnitude only 'by the . the M·~rch 4th ed1torial began, I number of fools who supported had th.e opportunity to personally he amphigoric resolution. confw11t Rod Tulloss concerning · his recent editorial in tho Idol. It .took some prodding to remind 'him of the strong wo·rds he hac' penned only a w·ee'k or so earlier. This -defense was le'ss than out- standing .and I left w:th the im- p:res:sion that the editori·al had been l€ss than weU thoug-ht out, perhaps even created 011 the ;spot before a threatening deadEne. To the nine judicious members ·,, of the Council we can only say, we are heartened that you \kept your heads when all about you we·re losing theirs.\ To Mr. Newman, we can only say, we hope that \you can bear Profe.ssor FiJ~kelstein could an· I· frontal lob<>tomy was thwarted a swer hi-s que~bon better than I decade earlier ·when the Concordy can, but I Wl!1 ventu1·e a gues.s t•ebelled and published once a week tbat the governments of England, as ·the back page of the ,Schenec- most of the Commonwealth; and tady Gazette.) Which bring-s us ·N01v we see the same quali:ties- . a few European countries woul<l, to the present. il'l. ;tbe Concordy editoria~ at issue. to hear the truth you've spoken, twi-sted by knay;es to make a trap ··• for fools.\ (Yes, we know it's 'rom Kipling). have \allowed\ -a•bout as much · now ? I think so and I think the open d8lbate as our government Inafurthertryatweakeninga 1 J.y,les&on to be learned' is clear. Re- has, i-f not on government o\vned p1>wer .the Conc:ordy had left, the spol1!sibl'e peo:ple ought to think T.V., at least on camp. uses. Does Pu:bJ.i•ca~ion Selection Commit-~ twiC!e hr:fore c?nceiving . iHegiti- our St. Andrews student have any tee ·engmeered a .coup where New- mate clnldren m a hurried mo- ~emment on this point\! Probably man's choice of next editor would ment's p-assion .. For indeed, fifteen fools and 1. their sophistically self-righteous sympathizers acted in a manner which unquestionably marks them for the Mausoleum of Irresponsi- ble Leadership. we are \-allowed\ mo·1·e political be bypassed and a person inex-. Charles Beckers, '65 freedom than the citizens of oany perienced in Concordy operation other coun-try (I'm not .sure llovv would be installed. It's reasons such, things can be measured') ; -wel'e that it wanted to end a Phi certamly we haYe not a mona poly, . Ep manopoly on the editorship What prompted this action? .even though the newspaper was But more important, do we need. smoothly run. It is a matter of to be grateful to Pmsident John-· debate whether this is a valid son. for n~t breac-hing 0111' Consti- rea>so-n, howevet·, u.nder the cir- Was it merely Mother protecting 1\fR. TULLOSS REPLIIDS: Mr. her si,ckly child, or was it fear? BEckers' drawi11g of conclusi()ns The fear that the next editorial is. plagued by error. would expose the enfeebling dis- Rodham E. Tulloss '66. ease which has stricken the Mother herself? Allan H. Starr, '66. A. Stephen Dubansky, '66. Solutions tutwnal nghts '! Or \vould it not -curnstances that the Publications be more useful to call attention Selectic>ns Conunittee is set up in to the violations which are occur- such a way as to guarantee self rin!S' a11 over the coun:try, ·attcl perpetu.ati:on (they themselves 'Fo ti 1 e Editor: whJCh will probably increase in. are allo-wed to pick their succes- number and seriousness i:ll the 1 sors, whereas Concordy is not) war intensifies 7 I refel\' to such) and that the most horrendous of things as the reclassification o<f 1 1Jn ion's publications, the Garnet, students who sit-in at draft' is allowed to Qontinue as Delta boards, to the COU1 1 t-martial1ing Upsilon's joke on Union, Ratner's of a soldier who took part in a pro-p~sal is ludicrous. Therefore p€ace march while -off duty and :Mr. Newman's outrage is under- WRUC- Luck May I suggest that the editor To the Editor: of the CONGORDIENSIS select out of unU'orm, to the firin~ (}f stancLahl€. !>rofessors with unpopular opin- . . me Qual\ter~back for next year'·s I took it for g1'anted that f()ootball squad. Or if this is un- WRUC members would not be fa..ir, then perhaps the CON- eligible to pLay Radio Facts. But COR:BY sbaff and the football look who won the Honda - a players could kade places. This WRUC disc Jockey. True, the se»lution seems perfeC'tly equitable questions asked were generally since no one see<lllS to think that easy, but there is -a point of fair either group could become mu-ch play violated here. Obvi-ously, a worse. And if there are still WRUC worker knows more a,bout • s~me skeptics who find fault with the station than a non-worker. ions on the war, and to the ,vith- Unsuccessful m therr .atteilliJ>t drrrwal -of Staughton Ly11d's pass- to make Concordy nathing bc;t a port, to mention S()me that come news sheet, people ?f the .cahbre t 0 minrl. of Al Nahnuas, decrded to !}rove thJs plan, then possibly a Student that the Student Council Ls good Professor Finkelstein thinks it :for things like stifling this spark relevant to tell us \Your govem- ?f lif-e shown by Concordy. 'l:'his ment is not evil nor are its lead- 1s the same S.C. that stood rdly ers evil men.\' I do not know by while Union's social rules fell what ''evil\ me-ans in this con- 2~ years behind the times. This is text, but I would like to supple- the same S.C. which allow~ t~e me:-~t that statement with the :\0% of the .student ~ody whrc.)lrs words of Demosthenes (2nd Phil- ud€pen~en_t to r•emam unprovr~~d ippi~. 25 >: :for. Thrs rs t!1~ same S.C. which allows fratermtres and the IFC to Acti-.;·it 'es Selection Board -could I think this letter is justified sr>me'·ow be formed. Every stu- even if I ha.d won the Honda. dent~s name would be p1ace<l in A former WRUC fan tli e pro\·e1·b:al hat, names are 1\'Ir. Ferguson replies: The fol- :l:l·b'tra.r:ty drawn, and students lowing members of WRUC Radio m·bitra rily assigned :to one or were ineligible to play Radio nore of the ~·arious a.ctivitie-s Facts: Richard Ferguson, Mark availal>le. lt's cheap, efficient, Polansky, Richard Reingold, and a11:d ·would -appear to maintain the Jeff Hedquist. These were tl1e qua'alative status quo. only members of the WRUC stalf \But there is one comn 1 on openly flaunt college regul-at-ion bulwark whirh the instinct of 1 while it prosecutes lesser offenses F. Authony Czwakiel. that had anything to do with the sensible men possesses with- in itself, a good and safe on-e for all, hut inval-u-able fo-r in dormitories. This is the body that had the ga11 to sh<Jw itself in public by censuring the editor-in- planning of the contest. Every Amphigoric rlemocracies against tyrants. And what is that bulwark '! It is mistrust.\ chief of Conco:rody for the capital To the Editor: crirne of protesting, of lifting a fingei\ however weakly, to point to an evil. Tltis is a mockery of 1 student goveTnrnent in partiC!ular and freedom in general. This is The long-'W'inded, short-sight€d de-ba.te of the March 8th StucleJ1t Council mee-ting, should have been reserved for an April 1st sessi{)n. The iusel1!ate action of the Coun- ~ir in -censuring the l>ast editor <Jf student on this campus had an equal chance to have his name entered once a day, the maximum permitted. We do uot feel that a student should be punished for ~articipating in the activity. By the very nature of the contest it · was not possible for any non-sta- tion member to have more knowl- edge of the contest thau any average station member. Wayue Somers folly. Acquisitions Librarian. Stupidity To the Editor: In an impressh·e display of stu- pidity, the Student Coun,cil voted 1 last \\'('~k to censure Bat\'ry N ew- 1 man fo1· his final eel ito rial \In~ C 1! ug!on.\ I say stupid because: emasru'aterl h1>dies usually h·avei pnoug-h presen~P of mind not to run around in public ex:posingl tlwms(''n.•s. My grievance .is twu fold. On the one hand I arn c:lis- gusted at the action of supposed student representatives, and on the other I am deeply resentful of the power whose sto~>ges tbey are. On the face of it the issue seems to read-\Mr. Newma11 in his edi- <.o6al abhored the atternpt on the · pnrt of the Pwblication's Board ,to. ·ns~ate a novice in the posiltion of editor of Concordy, and expres.sed bitterness toward the pel>ple in- volved in this attempt. For im- puning the wisd(}m of the Publi- · c:ation Board he was censured.\ However the i-ssue goes much deeper than this. The background of the issue goes thusly. Whereas at mos.t schools with which Union likes to compare itself the school news- David Volkman '66 Five ideal dates. Three dollars($3) Join in the most adventur.ous experiment of our time. Opera- ti()n Match. Let theiBM7090 Computer (the world's most perfect matchmaker) stamp out blind dates for you. Two Harvard juniors started it. 100,000 students h:we done it. Now you and 3,40(),00[) college students in 1500 colleges in 50 cities can sign up and join in! Just send us the coupon. We'll send you the Operation Match Quantitative Personality Projection Test pronto! Then return the questionnaire with $3.00. What you're like and what you like will be translated into our 7090's memory file. I twill scan the qualifications of every member of the opposite sex from this geographic ar.ea. Then it will select the five or more matches best for you. You'll receive your narnes, addresses and telephone numbers within three weeks. 'You'll be what your date is looking for. Your date will be what you are looking for. In other words: the matches will be mutual. ~--------------·-····-··············-·--------------~ I Dear IBM 7090, I am 17orover (and27 or under) and I want to help stamp out blind dates. So mail me my questionnaire. Quick! Nnm~ School Aclcir!'ss Friday, N Ji '\'W Mu Th~s yea of the cen; mad Ali E · ileen rejec York, Ohil treal, and PatteTson, •me of his Sweden, is the public ton-Ali fiE . Howe despair Clay {the to deal wft the promo !tit upon tr china in t Chuvalo. Chuvalo Canadi chief claim animous d· PI s: Sche FOU Th El' go K And, for g smart styli center dia1 perfect (c sured) .. fine color cut. The 1 your ring c faction. Se sonal Ke Keepsake. him in the \Jewelers r----· 1 HOW TO The Union College Jazz W&rk- shop will present a ~oncett of jazz music this Friday at 7 :0& in . :'llemorial Cha11el. The program will consist of jazz rall.giug fr()tn. near avant-garde to show masic in character. The jazz quin.tet and the eighteen-piece stage band will be the groups performing:. City State :Zip Code t'!l I I Please sen• and Wedd l Also, send I I I I I I I I Operation Match Compatahility Research, Inc. 671 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts '-•••a••••••••~•-•-••-••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ I Name_ I J Address __ I Citvr--- 1 KEEPSAKE L-----

18, 1}~~6 is sur- , 'by the supported members ·'' only say, \kept you can only can bear spoken, a trap .. , it's and 1. manner them action? it fear? editorial bling dis- the ky, '66. that not be But a the generally of fair a OTe a,bout • justified fan The fol- Radio Radio Mark and tl1e stalf with the Every had an name that a shed for By it · • non-sta- knowl- han any fv ® Friday, March TS, 1 966 J 7 uWasherwoman\ George Becomes Fitz Turrier Named Most Improved; 'MuhammadAli,s New Fight Foe Third Higest Scorer For Garnet Ey Patti Grayson cesswely- better ftghters, there · ca.n be no better man for the un- So let the stuffy old World This year'·s versio.n of the fight derdog cult to identify with. No.t Boxing Association refuse to. Fitz Turner, a 6'5\ sophomore center, was of the century, b~tween Muh:am- only is he totally incompetent,' sanction the bout as for the · ' U · mad Ali and Ernie Terrell, has b t th 1 f h' 1 · d named Most Improved Player in th1s years mon •'een reJ'ected t·o dat~ by New ~ e co.or 0 ·s 8 c~n ren ers championship. Let them be in- College basket!Ja!l team, in a secret ballot of the \-' \' lum a boxmg anachrorusm. And York, Chicago, Louisville, Mon- to enhance such ·an endearing fluenced by such petty factors players at the team's banquet. treal, and Ernie Tel'l·elL Floyd background, the Washerwoman, as Chu\•alo's defeats in three out PatteTslo!l, b'bus~ 1 ~mbarbkingl ' ~n a.s Ali has not inracmra_t ely dub- of his last four fights-to_ Pat- Turner was the third highest scored on the •me of us 1enrua ~orne, ac cs 111 bed the ungainly Chuvalo, de- l·l b ~ Garnet team, with a 9.0 points per game a\'erage, Sw eden is not avcail>al>le nor has 1' 1 t . l d' 'th h' 't terson, Terre ' and an _o s,ure b d t 7 5 •. · · ' . . . 1g 1 s In ea mg Wl · IS gram e . d d d C 1 . and the se{'ond highest re oun er a . . per con- the pu.bh·c. clamor iiOl' a third Lls-1 chin and then savoring the frus- ltahan name E uar o or e.ttJ. test. His outstanding game came in a 90-83 over- ton-All f1asco been . overwhe.lm-1 tration welling up in his perspit·· Who can dou·bt that the next tltle. H e the ·e 1s n r ason t' 1 n 1 e loss at Rochester, when he scored twenty- o~ev. r, · 1 0 e . I ing opponent. Mind you, he sel- fight will be a worthy successor despau JUst yet for ,Cassms I dom hits back (I think the Ma;-. to the .pugilistic epics of recent one points and pulled dov.'T! seventeen rebou?ds. his first ·starting assignment during the Holiday Tournament in December and made the most of his chance. He started each of the last thirteen games in the season averaging 12.5 points per game as a regular. Coach Evans is counting on Turner to help lead Vnion next year, when the Garnet seeks to im- prove this season's 8-13 record. The players decided not to choose their 1966:67 captain until next fall. In recent years, the votmg has taken place at the post-season banquet. Clay {th<: pse~donym Al1 adopts, quis of Queensbury rules f.orb1d After opening the season as a reserve, F1tz got to deal w~th h1·s dr 1 a.ft board), for that), and when he dl}es so. en- years? the promoters, unciatlllted, have deaver he is invariably cons1der- -------------l=:============jlij;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~-=~----~:~--~ hit up~n the perfect deus ex rna- ate enough to inform the oth,er ,.. china m the person of George fighter and the closnd circuit tel- Chuvalo. . 1 evision aud·ience well in advance Chuvalo.Is a 'natura!.' A braw- by an ·intricate series of faciaL ... Cam~dJan lumbeJ'Jack who.se and bodily contortlons. But in ch1.ef claim to _fame has been un- an age of phantom anchor pun- ammous decJSH>n losses to sue- hes and the need for chiroprac-· ClEAN CLOTHES LAST LONGER For three Generations .. Notice: Two assistant baseball ~o:s as trainers it's a refresh~n~ gers are needed~ If inter- thmg to see. a man poun ~ .. ested please contact David Wat- around for h!s .full q'.10ta of f1r- R 418 Rielunond or teen masochistic rounds, don t ers, · oom , ' 1 th'nk? Coach A. Lawren-ce. Physica you 1 • Dept. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nrott Street Schenect(ldy, ·1'-!. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE DB AMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to Sundays 5 P.M. - A.M. A.M. The ENGAGE-ABLES go for ~K.Q .. QoJ~~ s a..k~® 2 or More S H I R T S .... 22¢ ea. Sport JACKETS & T R 0 U S E R S ••• 49¢ ea. Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Natio,nal Bank Those Who Know .. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons \\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Hor new weanon forme euoae\. eat\\8 ot '\\ And, for good reasons ..• like ~ !!II smart styling to enhcnce the center diamond ... guaranteed perfect (or rep Ia cement as- sured) ... a brilliant gem of fine color and precise rnodern cut. The name, Keepsake, in your ring assures lifetime satis- faction. Select y<JLrr very per- sonal Keepsake at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. Find him in the yellow pageS Under PRICES FRCM$100, T0$5000, RIK~S EkLARGEDTO SHOW BEAUTY OF OETAIL~ 4!D 1RADE·MARK REC. \JewelerS A, Ho PONO COMPANY, INC., ESTABLISHED 1892 ----------------------------, l HOW TO PLAN 'YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 I Please send new 20-pag~ booklet, \How To Plan Your Enga~ement l I and Wedding\' and new 1 2-pag? full color fold~r, ~oth for on Y 25c. I l Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-page Bnde s Book. I IN~ I ~~~ I I I ,~ ~ I I I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, NEW YORK j L---------------------------- BS Dodge Coronet Shape up. budget-balancers. With Dodge Coronet, you can afford to. Here's an \in\ car with a new out- look for swingers. Coronet has every- thing you need to put fun back in driving. Take Coronet's looks. lots of people have. Take the extras at no extra cost: Outside rearview mirror. Padded dash. Variable-speed wipers and washers. Backup lights. Turn sig- nals. Seat belts, front and rear. They're all standard. And Coronet's See your Dodge Dealer now. price? That's easy to take, too. So, march on down to your nearest Dodge Dealer's. See what the shouting is all about. Hot new Dodge Coronet for 1966. DODGE DIVISION~~ CHRYSLER f'» MOTORS CORPORATION I . ·:-:-. ··~··· l·=··· ~~ '--------WATCH \THE BOB HOPE CHRYSLER THEATRE\ WEDNESDAY NIGHTS ON NBC-TV. CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS.--------' !t I I I l .I I I

AARDlJARK Page4 Concordy Spring Sports Pre'View; Garnet Nine Defends Title Tr~ck: Sp-orts THREE-THREE PageS Time Out: NCAA Compromise By Andy Colb {;' ,. __ _ Vol. 9~ By Stephen Cheuvront While the rest of the c·ampus still battles the snow and the cold of Winter, Union's athlete·s are preparing for the Spring sports season. The baseball, lac~:osse and ~enn~s teams have begun practice In hopes of producing many Union victories when Win- ter has finally disappeared. :Garnet Cops Fourth In Union Meet ._-------~~----------~·' ~, St-1 Union College wHI be eligible for all NCAA sponsored regional I and nationaL tournaments until January 1967. Although the coUege 1Jnion College pla.ced fourth in has not returned or signed the affidavit ·stating that .1.600 is the Sp the tenth Union College Invi.ta- minim1:1m index required for intercoHegiate competition, we have . Honal Track Meet at the Mem- sent a letter to the NCAA stating that our methods of selection for ·orial Field House. The meet was freshmen and transfer student::; and that our methods of scholarship The baseball team, already two weeks into its training program has a difficult job ahea<l .of it if it hopes to match last year's rec- ord. Behind co-captains Gary Bro\vn and Rick Grookes the Gar- net compi·led a 15 and 2 season and a NCAA championship. b s determination are based ent1rely on need. \\\On Y pringfield with 32 points, This letter was, essentially, a form 1etter, composed by the Eas-t- . followed by LeMoyne with 29, ern College Athletic Conference and deemed an acceptable compro- 1 Ifamilton with 25%, and Union nuse by the NCAA. Circulated to all .b.CAC member colleges, the · \Vith 16% · letter states \we have serious reservations about the NCAA's legis- ! Bob Newbeg[n, despite only. Iating in this area ...• \ (the area of 1.6 minimum index), \We are I two days of pvactice because o.f prepared, however, to attest that our instttutional procedures assure Under the able coaching of Art Lawrence, who was named small college coach-of-the-year the Garnet will attem.pt to mi many o.f the holes caused by gradua- tiOn. The most serious problem seem::> to be pitehing where there :tre no returning starters. There IS, however, a good group of so- phomore hurlers including lefty Bob Hallenbeck, and righties Sam Dill, Dan Nygaard, Charles Cress- well, and Bill Ne!del. First base- man-outfielder Art Marsh.:.rH who was the best clutch-hitter on the t0am, must also be replaced but h!s job w~ll probably be take'n by Jim Dernck, also a sophomore. a S()re leg, cleared 12'9\ within an tflat incommg students will predict to do m exce.gs of the 1.600 ..•• \ inch of the s·chool record to win '.Fhus far only mne other school:; have taken Union's position of the pole vault for Union. AI- returning the letter; .Haverford, Ulmois ::itate, 1V1l'r, lY!Uskingum, though he can't run well, he feels .Northeast !Vlissouri ::itate Teachers College (Kirksville), Olivet, Ot- he can go 13' because he is chang- terbem, H.P l and btetson. .1'-l one of the lvy League, Little lvy League ing his jumping .style, and is us- or other Bastern Colleges has complied. ing a new pole. Two weeks ago Union's compllance, then, creates seve·ral problems. The first, he won with a vault of 12'. Dave and most impor.tant, 1s our loss of prestige m re·specj; to the other Ring won the thousand ya-rd run .t..C.:AC: colleges. lt IS a rare Circumstance indeed, when Union can r with a time of 2:20.8. st.and alone with a _power1ul mmonty and show that we are con- c~rned. .Now, at best have we shunned other Eastern Colleges sim- p~ I believe we have a lot of new talent this year. Those players retuming from record of 5 wins and 6 losses, last year's squad include outfield- beeause of talented sophomores ei·s Greg Olson and Bill Toth and the return ~f seve·ra.l key third baseman Larry \Chief\ Me~ performers from Ia.st year's Donald, shortstop Bo,b MrAdams squad. and utility infielder Ron Cherin~ sea·son with a home game against Stevens April 1G at 3:00 P.M. Other home rontests include Ho- bart, Hamilton, Sy-racuse, CCNY, Middlebury and RPI. The team's prospects may he ply because we have a regional cnantpmnsnip ·baseoall team 1 If, in getting better with the improve- January, when the J.'IICA next meets, tne !vy League is granted spe- ment of two key injured men, c1al dispensation or even leaves tne .J:IlCAA, where will we stand? N\ ewbegin and Dave Rin,g. '!'he answer is all too obvious. We w11! become a weak minority of New Field House Record ten small schools, eventually forced to conceue to the NCAA against our w1shes. Our only hope at this poin:t is that the lvy League real- Ripple of LeMoyne won the Izes that the letter of compliance was a mere temporizing affair, .two mi-le run in 9:43.3, a new a1med at immediate appeasement, rather than true support. How Fielu House Record. Another triv1al would the excuse of defending our right to play regwnal base- Field House rnark was tied when ball seem when Yale's swmuners, .1:-'enn·s cagers and Columbia's Carle of Springfield tied the pre- fencers gave up national and perhaps internab:onal prestige and vious record in the 50 yard dash honor! in 5.5 seconds. Al Sessons, who Why, then, did we compromise, at least until Jauary, with the had set the record two weeks NCAA'! Our playing of regwnal baseball is one reason. Professor ago, was unable to run for the Ketz's duties with tne NCAA is another. Ketz is spearheading the Garnet because of a pulled ham- drive in the NCAA for more small college competitwn. How silly it string muscle. would loolt if he arranged small college tournaments only to have tt Com; Alternati ing undeJ nam, \Ve '&war.\ The consist in! terrupted ko. The Garnet will tulle to the Senior goal-keeper Bob Dick- road for their first three games man heads a very tight defensive pl~ying at Pratt April 16 , at unit w~ich includes Tom Morgan, Middlebury April 19 and at Nor- Ray Ltsk and Bob DeMichele. wich April 20. The first home The attack is led by high scor- ~2~-a.me is against Rochester April ing midfielders ru,!uc Huu%ut, . , and includes Ken Milne and Gary Union's relay teams placed Union excluded because they wet·e inehgible. lt is unfortunate that fl>nrth in the Freshman relay and a small coUege cannot afford to divorce the individual responsibilities si:xth in the Varsity mile relay. of memners of the faculty from the college's responsibility to its U nion'.s best in the shot put was students. lf Union hud been sufficiently inaependent to send no let- 41'6 34 \ by AI Baskous, far be- ter, it is possible tha•t the position of certain members of the Phys. hind the winning mark of 59'9\ .t:d. with the NCAA would be jeopardized. by Deyle of Hamilton. L'nf01tunately, the letter has bet:n sent. The instructors' posi- . tions are secure. At least for another year, our baseball team can ::>pon and mode ning th:at made a fl The lacrosse team al.so has Raden at the other positions. Sen- been working out fo:r several ior Randy \\'Vestby and sopho- weeks in antidpation of their mores Steve Ritterbush, Lou Ben- first scrimmage Marrh 2l at nr>tt and Lee Sc>hneidl\r compose 1:enn. Coarh Allison is optimis- the attack positiorlS. tic about bettering Ja~t \ear's Th G 1 1 , e arnet open t 1eir regular Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservotions phone FR 4-8917 I 35 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 31 AMF BOWlfNG LANES First for Union defend its championship in the sprmg. Life will go on. Until Janu- The New York State Track and ary, 1967, Union's position in the NCAA is one of tamished eligibility. Field Championship will start at Next January, where will Union be~ To whose sheltering Side will 10 :DO A.M. this Saturday at the it run 'Z Memorial Field House, the first Yes, L'nion has strong feelings against the ~CAA ruling, just ti'me this event has been held at as other e:.J:stern colleges. Our only ho_pe i·s that the Ivy League will u 1 uon. realize our desire to destroy the 1.6 By-law and to initiate scholastic The final standings were: Springfield .... ..... ............. 32 Springfield ·---·------- ......... 29 LeMoyne ....... _ .................. 29 Hamilton ........................ 25:1h Union .............................. 16% Rochester .. .... .................. 15 Brockpmt ........................ 13 RPI . . . . ............. 13 Trinity . . ... .. . ..... ...... ... 11 ~ Roberts Wesleyan 7 Hartwick . .. ... ...... . .. \ Cortland ......................... 0 Rochester Ins t. Tech..... 0 TENNIS independence. N.Y.C. Theatre . premiere of Brecht's The Caucas· i ian Chalk Circle should make the i two theatre trips to N.Y.C. a In troductory lectUI'es on the I worthwhile experience for ALL bus, simultaneous translation by STUDENTS who are interested in transistor, excellent seats, and the I' the dra~a. opportunity to see the New York reservatiOn must be made by March 2:2. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE IT ALlAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Bob Newhegin pole vaults to within au il!Ch of the school record. Even with snow st:ll on the courts, new ~O<ach Bob Benson :s putting hi.s tennis squad through workouts in the gym Wit? only John. Farnham, Sand; Levme. and Cns Komisarjrv'sky retur~mg fro?Jlast year's squad, expel'lenee will be lacking. The freshman t~m, however, prom- :ses to provide plenty of excite- ment and plenty of victoritls in the new season. The frosh open their season against RPI a.t h(}:ne, April 15, while the varsity gets under way the following day, also against RPI. ''LEVIS'' DARI TREAT 2049 Van Vranken Avenue Just a Few Blocks Frorn I Campus I Cougenial Atmosphere I Charbroiled Steer ks $1.35 i Phone Orders Encouraged I 377-4261 ~~---~~--~~~~i L. G. BALFOUR co. I CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES W rile or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 132W LAFAYETTE RADIO ELECTRONICS Associate Store Owned and Operated by Seiden Sound, Inc. EVERYTHING AT CATALOG PRICES ALBANY 79 Central Ave. Phone 462-424S Store Hours, Mon. & Thurs. 'Til 9 Other J>ays 'Till 5:30 :\ it\ ··./:.: .:;;,: •; : ··.·~··::· . .:.·.~~~···,· .fj··. ··~·~·· 0 ·.· _, .... __ ::::·:·· ·-:::·:···_' SCHENECTADY 141 Erie Blvd. Phone 393-2153 Store Hours: TtJes., & T11urs., 'Till 9. Other Days \Till 5:30 Corduroys, Stretch Regular Slim-Fits All Sizes 4.50 to s.98 Avcilable Now In STA-PREST DAVE'S e;quire ~4np ~ 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 . ., Prof. that \a r defeated. an \ultra will fight Pro-£. \Appease '!'he 1 R.P.I., wl \Twenty: on today.' Prof. gave the . l 1irst, that all Asian find a sov alternativ• Last; who said: from Viet1 The f• 1 ~ the discus at one poi Willison, ' tained tha hogwash.\ 'l'be p. nam after ical fine p< Prof. moderator, and rehutt aggress10n of peace.\ He dr• son's a:ssur. funniest th Prof. 1 \\!did not lik to mellow At one 'llut.\ He 1 ,~we support \13 From 8:. Monday ni dents had i see one o:f on WRUC. he is more lmc}Wn D.J radio stati• from Studi A large WRUC sb jockey and person. A> 11 records at ' cast the ne· HUC. Lewis WI station's fa r11 the show b, engineer's a over many tions, being an enjoyab Year old ra Program, a

• Senior Weekend PageS Text of S.c. Resolution Page3 Founded at Union College 1877 ~· ~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------~~~~==~ PRICE 15 CENTS ntse Vol. 95 - No. 21 .ndy Colb -.red-regio-nal·~ ~,Students Participate In 1 the coJ:lege ~~::~ 1 ~~;~; Spirited Vietnant Debate : scholarship by the Eas.t- · .bie compro- l!0lleges, the :;AA's legis- x), \We are iures assure ~ 1.600 .... \ ; position of }'!uskingum, , Olivet, Ot- lvy League ,, The first, to the other 1 Union can we are con- :olleges sim- eam t If, in ?;ranted spe- c we stand? minority of :AA against :..eague real- izing affair, pport. How gwnal base- Columbia's m~stige and ry, with the t. Professor ·heading the How silly it nly to have rtunate that 1ponsibilities billty to its send no let- >f the Phys. lCtors' posi- v ll team can Until Janu- ~d eligib ill t y. ng side will ruling, just League will ~e scholastic fhe Caucas· ld make the > N.Y.C. a e for ALL .nte!'ested in T Professors Thimm, fat· lt>ft, and Gati listen as Professor Fox addresses the audi- (1 ence in last Tuesday's Vietnam Debate. Not shown in tlte photograph are Pro- fessar Willis()n and Mark Zauderer, moderator. By Robert A. Fried Comments made by participants in Tuesday evening's debate on \American Alternatives in Vietnam\ ranged from the fact that the United States is \labor- ing under the fundamental mlSi!onception\ to, \unless we contain China in Viet- nam, \Ve are committing a monumental Munich that will lead to another world ; war!' & The debate, beginning at 8:30 P.M., was held in Old Chapel. The audience, consisting of about 250 students, professors, and Scheneotady residents, often in- terrupted the speeches with aJ:)piause, laughter, and hissing. ~ponsored by the International Relations Club, the aebate was introduced and moderated by the club's president, Mark Zauderer. He stated at the begin- ning tlrat \this will not _be a debate in a strict 'Sense.\ Each participant then made a five-minute openmg speech. \Ultra-Liberal\ ,, Prof. Alfred Thimm, of the Department of Economics, opened by saying · tb.at \a new aggressor lms al'lsen, lar more dangerous than the one that we de.fl;!ated. in 1946.'' He drew a mixture of laughter and applause when he defined an \ultra-liberal\ as 13omeone who, \althougn he disagrees with what you say, will fight to the death to keep you from saying it.\ P1·o-f. Thimm took a hard-ilne position on American participation in Vietnam. \Appeasement leads to war,\ he said. 'l'he next openmg statement was made by Dr. Edward Fox, a professor at R.P.I., whose bas1c position was that t11e V 1etnamese conrt1ct is a CIVil war. \Twenty years ago a civ1l war broke out in Vietnam,'' he said. ••It is still going vn today.\ Pr0f. Charles Gati, of the Department of Political Science, spoke next. He gave the audience three reasons 10r his support (}f the United States's policy: . first, that the American presence in Vietnam and Asia \makes it po-ssible for l all A'sia'll governments to deal with options in Asian politics;\ second, that \we find a sovereign S'tate struggling agamst aggression;\ third, that \all the other alternatives are unacceptable.\ Phased Withdrawal Last to speak was Prof. Malcolm Willison, of the Department of _Sociology, who said flatly, \1 believe we are wrong.\ He proposed a \phased Withdrawal\ from Vietnam under the auspices of the United Nations. The four speakers often became vitriolic after the opening statements, when ; 'B the discussion was thro-wn open to questions from the audience. P1·of. Thimm at one p-oint criticized what he called \the naivete and other-worldliness of Mr. Willison, who amasses facts and doesn't understand them.\ Dr. l:<'ox then main- tained that Prof. 'l'himm's arguments were \full of generalities and emoti()nal hogwash.\ 'l'he participants disagreed about the number of refugees from North Viet- nam after the ll155 settlement. Although there were other disputes about statist- ical fine points, each speaker maintained hi's initial position throughout. .f'rof. Thimm was perhaps the most vocal of the four. Mr. Zauderer, the moderator, repeatedly refrained the professor from elaborating on his answers and rebuttals. He was consistent in his positwn that \we must show China that aggressiOn d(}es not pay.\ He also maintained that the guerrilla is \the price of peace_\ National Interest '% He dl'ew laughter and l1issing fmm the audience when he said, \Mr. Willi- son's a:ssumptions that if we pull out, the Viet Cong will negotiate, is one of the funniest things l've heard in ten years.\ Prof. Gati said that the Unit-ed States often must deal with countries she \did not like and cited Spain as an example. \By doing so, we have been able to mellow somewhat the cruelties within these countries,\ he \S<J At one point, Prof. Willi'son said that ••it is in our national interest to get 'llut.\ He maintained, in answer to Prof. Gati's remark, that the governments we support, however dictatorial they are, \are still able to support themselves.\ Continued on Page 5 Col. 1 THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1966 S.C. Offers Social Rule Proposal A proposal for liberalized soeial rules, including opening up of dormi- tory rooms at certafin hours, was passed unanimously hy the Student Council at a meeting held in Hale House Student Lounge, Tuesday, March -22. The proposal will now be referred to the Administration for presentaticm to the trustees and it is hoped that the rules will go into effect by Spring Weekend. Hours The reso:ution, which eoncerns the dormitories only, propose.s that the first floor lounges be opened 24 hours a day and lounges on other floors be opened the following h{}urs: Fri- day: 6 P.M. to midnight; Saturday: 12 noon Ito 5 P-M. and 7 P.M. to 1 A.M.; and Sunday: 1 P.M. to 9 P.M. If the proposal is a.ccepted, student ro(}ms will be opened the following hours: Satlll'day: 12 noon to 5 P.M. and 7 P.M. to midnight, and Sunday: 1 P.M. to- 6 P.M. The res-trictions on these proposals have been made to \allow use of shower facilities whose only entrance is through the lO'unge and to fit with existing study mles.\ Also included with the proposals are suggestions that the recommendations for plant changes made by .fue dorm counselors be passed and that \alcoholic bever- ages be allowed to be stored and serv- ed by students over 18 years of age.\ Philosophy Explained Accompanying the proposal for specific rules changes is a lengthy statement which explains the philos,o- phy be~ind the proposals ·and a sta~­ ment <hrected at the \Faculty Admm- istration, and Trustees,\ and one di- rected at \The Student Body.\ The bulk of thes~ statements were written for the Student Council by Rod Tulloss, a senior, who has been in- volved in the controversy regarding the rules. Ed Clark, Chairman of the Constitutional Revision Committee of the Student Council, played an in- tegral role in spearheading the move- ment. !Hartin Interested President Martin had expressed in- terest in a student proposal changing the rules since his arrival on campus and he devoted considerable time to sounding out opinion on the sub- jeot and exploring the posshbili~ies t?f various changes. The resolutiOn IS the student response to this interest, indicating a belief that it would be given a trial period with further sug- gestions coming at any time. The question '()f enforcement is left open in the pr(}p(}sal aLthough the need for strict enforcement and stu- Research Promise Apparent In New Sigma Xi Members By Richard Balagur . . . . The Union College chapter of Sigma Xi, the se1ent~c and engi- neering honor society, elected five men to full membership and twen- ty-six to associate membership this past Thursday, March 17. · · Under the new criteria for election Phi Delt Elitninates Bias Clause Phi Delta Theta Fraternity of Un- ion has petitioned their national for permission t(} waive a national clause which prohibits admission of Negroes and Jews to the fraternity. The local chapter expects approval of the waiv- er by April of this year. Although no exact date was attain- able, it is known that the clause has been in the nattonal charter since about 1900. At a national co-nvention in August 1964, a resolution was brought up to abolish the clause. Be- cause of op.pO'sition from alumni group'S, mostly Southem and West- ern, the resolution: was tabled. In it's place, a proposal was passed that en- abled individual chapters to waive the clause. This proposal was more or less a concession to East~rn cha.p.ters who have been pressured to ab()li&h this clause. Petitiou In order to waive the clause, . a Phi Delt fraternity must send a peti- tion to its province president (Union's chapter is in the province that com- pri'ses all of New 'Yot•k Sta.te). Each chapter in the province must approve the petition, after which, it goes to the general council of the national for final action. Continued on Page 5, Col. 1 established two years ago, a student must show marked aptitude for re- search in pure or applied scient:!~ to be eligible for election to associate member. To be elected or promoted to full membership, one must have shown noteworthy achievement as an original investigator in some field of science. Purpose Edward Craig, Union's Sigma Xi secretary, explained that the purpose of the society, founded at Cornell Uni- versity in 1886, is for the \encourage- ment of original investigation in sci- ence, pure and applied.\ Eligibility for electi(}n to associate membership is now based solely on undergraduate research, whi<;h must appear in the form of a written re- port submitted by Commencement Day. Professor Craig n(}ted that \it must be understood that election to associate membership is no longer de- pendent on marks or grade indices.\ Members Those elected to full membership are: Dr. James L. Barow, faculty, Bio- logy; Robert L. Cormia, '66, Physics; Dr. Christopher Fried, faculty, Psy- chology; Robert Allan Jones (Promo- tion), '59, Physics; and Dr. J. Richard Shanebro(}k, faculty, M.E. Those elected to associate member- ship are: Anthony Baxter, '66, E.E.; Charles Beckers, Jr., '66, Physics; Ger• ald B. Bijwaard, '66G, M.E.; Benjamin Blair, Jr., '66, C.E.; Richard Bobilin, '66, E.E.; Alan Bolten, '67, Biology; Robert Borofsky, '66, Psychology.; Robert Downer, '66, Chemistry: Rich- ard Dybas, '66, Chemistry; and Rich- ard Fateman, '66, Phy'Sics. dent responsibility is dearly sized. Specific enforcement will probably be determined AU-College Council. Copies Distributed empha- p·olicies by the There was little debate in the Coun- cil ()Ver whether the proposal would be passed, as time was more occupied with questions concerning the pro- posal than with arguments for or against passage. Copies of the pro- posal have been distributed to the appropriate administration personnel, The proposal is part of an intensive campaign bJ make conditions at Un- ion more desirable. It is a combina~ tion of the opinions expressed by · the d'()rm counselors and those of a Student Council Committee. The complete text of the proposal is published in this issue on page three. MGM Pays $100,000 To Union Groduate For Western Novel -Lean Arden DAVID MARKSON, '50 David Markson, '50, has recently sold hi'S \western The Ballad of Dingus Magee, to Metro-Goldwyn-Meyer for $100,000. This is quite a change in earnings for the thirty-eight year old author, who, in 1963, earned only $675 and was forced to teach English at Long Island University for $450 a month. Alumnus Markson graduated from Albany High Scb.ool and went t(} work as a reporter for the Albany Times Union before entering Union. His college career was interrupted by the Army, where he ·served as sportswriter in the U. S. Army's new's service for two years. After receiving his degree at Union, Markson went to Cornell for his Masters Degree in literature. \B b I \ o aoo Of ABC Broadcasts On WRUC Also elected to associate member- ship were: E. Wesley Gifford, '66, M.E.; Michael Adam Graber, '67, Phy- sics; Clark Hamilton, '66, E.E.; Wil- liam Hefner, '66, M.E.; Clifford Hen- riGksen, '66, M.E.; Rolf Gunther Kas- per, '66, M.E.; David Kearney, '66G, M.E.; Edgar Knaub, '66G, Chemistry; and John Laniewski, '66, M.E. A member of Phi Sigma Delta and a Dean's List student, Markson was on the varsity cross C(}Untry team, and intramural basketball, football and soft ball teams. Markson also added spice to the Concordiensis, with ar- ticles in his column \The Rest is Sil- ence.\ He gave warnings to Skidmore girls against \those deadly bear-trap arrangements which comprise such a vital part of your various undergar- ments.\ \Why give a poor guy the come hither routine with all that lacey, flimsy camouflage, and then put his very life in danger when he falls for the sucker belt?\ rp '-3061 By Jeffrey Dunn From 8:15 P.M. until 9:00 P.M. on Monday night, March 21, Union stu- dent's had the opportunity to hear and see one of America's top disc jockeys on WRUC. Bob Lewis (or Bobaloo as he is more commonly known), a well !mown D.J. on New York's WABC radio station, played the dirty thirty from Studio B in Old Gym Hall. A lru:ge cr()Wd gathered in the WRUC studios to watch the dise jockey and to hear his rock show in person. A'side from playing the top 11 records at Union, Bobaloo also broad- , <'ast the news and did commercials on HUC. Lewis was quite impressed by the station's facilities, and enjoyed doing li> the show by himself. Since at WABC engineer's and automation have taken over many of the disc jockey's func- tions, being on the air unassisted was an enjoyable change for the thirty Ye-ar old radio personality. After the program, an informal discussion fol- lowed, in which many WRUC mem- bers had an opportunity to participate. Earlier in the evening, Lewis had been guest speaker at WRUC\s annual banquet held at the Holiday Inn, and attended by fortY stati()n members. His remarks concerned the role of the college radio station and other such extra-curricular activities, along with their contribution to a liberal educa· tion. Brown Graduate Lewis had experience in college radio when he worked on the college station at Brown. From there, he went on to Columbia for graduate work in psychology. He then worked at smaller stations on Long Island, in New Haven, Connecticut, and in New York. After only four years, he was able to advance to his present position at WABC. Next month, Lewis will be accom- panying the RUC delegation at a con- ventio-n of college radio and television stations there. -Phil Phelps \BOB'A.LOO~' In addition John Norman Lee, '66, Physics; David Mann, '66, Physics; R. Allan Miller, '66, C.E.; Richard Pikul, '66, C.E.; Jeffrey H. Ratner, '66, Bio- logy, Henry Revercomb, Jr, '66, Phy- sic's; Frederick Schwab, '66G, Chemis- try; Kirk Sessions, '66G, M.E.: Wil- liam Stoner, '66, Physics; and Neil Tischler, '66, M.E. Recent Meeting This past Tuesday, March 22, the chapter held a dinner meeting at Hale House. Dr. Walter Robb, Manager of the Chemical Processes Branch of the General Electric Research and Devel- opment Center, was the guest speaker, his topic being \Leaky Balloons and Artificial Gills.\ He described some of the properties of the thin silicone mem- brane which he developed with which he has kept a hamster alive for four days while completely submerged un- der water. Book Editor In 1950, Mark'son worked for Dell Publishing Company until 1956 when he was made assoriate editor for Lion Books Inc. The Centro Mexicano de Escritores gave him one of their three fellowships for writing in 1960. This stipend covered all living expenses for one year in Mexico and allowed him to work on an important n.ovel which he is still writing. It is this work which he intermpted for three and a half months to write Dingus. Tlte Ballad of Dingus Magee is a Continued on Page 2, Col. 1 ;; I ' II 'I

2 Shortage Of Skille~ Labo~ Personnel Causes Delay In Cot1struction Schedule Theodore R. Mcllwaine, Business Manager, said this Mr. Mcllwaine listed a ho·st of construction jobs that may week that a shortage of skiJ:led construction personnel is 'slow- lure workers away from the Union CoHege job. Road con- ing down construction on the new Liberal Arts Centers and s.truction is especially attractive because it offers profitable dormitories. overtime \l'ork to workmen. Building construction workers Tl\e~e buildings II'C'l'l' orig-inally scheduled for completion do not generally have the chance to work overtime. by th(' hl'ginning of the Hl!lfi-57 ncad<·mic yem·, but a steel- In connection with the two Library Satel:lite buildings, '''ork~ers' strikr> last summer moved the> targt>t date up to M1·. McTlwaine said that the crew for this job is not under- ::--!ovember or Dl•crmbe1·. Mr. Mrllwaine said he hoped this manned, although this often seem's to be the case. The work- new deadline would be met. \I think we'll make it, but one men do not work on both buildings at the same time ·but move ~trike could stop the whole thing again,\ he said. from one to the other in order to con'serve the plastic tenting In addition to the danget· of a strike, the project could be material used to keep the wet mortar and concrete warm. plag-urd by the t(•ndeney o-f \\'orknwn to leave a nearly com- II The rotation from building to building also ·offers the work- pleted j8b to wol\k on one that is just starting in order to er::l longer jobs, thus making it easier to get them to work ensure themselves of a Junger term of employment. 1 here. :\EW DORmTORY BEGI~S TO TAKE SHAPE I:.'-1 ACHILLES FIELD. Visit To Union College Slated For Leading Hungarian Writer One of Hungary's leading men of lettet\'S will be on the Union campus dur- ing the first \reek after spring recess. :Ylr. Ivan Boldizsar will arrive here Munday, April 4, and will leave the fol- lowing Saturday, April !J. He will visit English, political science, and language l'lasses during his stay. The International Relations Club will hear Mr. Boldizsar speak on \The Image of the United States in Hungary.\ His talk will be on Wednesday, April fi. at 8:30 p.m. in Hale House. Four ~1onth Tour ~lr. Boluizsar, who arrived in New York Match 14, will spend. four months in the L'nited Stute:.;. Sponsored by the International Institute of Education and the Ford Foundation, his trip has been arranged as part of the Ford Foun- dation's \.t:a:st .European Cultural Dignitaries\ prog-ram. Hew lnst:ructors Gain Appointments Union College will add eight new men to Hs pre·sent faculty, 'Seven of whom will begin work next September. Mr. Raymond Brindle, Jr., wiH be- gin work this July. Mr. Brindle will serve as instructor and librarian. He is a graduate of State Univer·sity of New York at Albany, where he re- cr>iverl his A.B., M.A., and M.L.S. The Seven Starting in September will be Mr. Herbert Wylen, Mr. Peter Lindsti'Oill, Dr. Theodore Wilson, Mr. Donald Thurston, Dr. John Daniels, Dr. Theo- doJ•e Bick and lV!t·. Donald Holmes. Mr. Mylen received his B.A. from the University of Delaware and his M.A. from Bryn Mawr. He ha'S served as a graduate assistant at both Bryn l\lawr and the University of Pennsyl- vania. He will serve as an assistant professor of physics. Mr. Lindstrom received hi's B.S. at Allegheny College and his M.A. at Kent State \C.nh·ersity. He worked .for the last two years at the University of Buffalo. He will serve here as an instructor of mathematics. Fulbrig·llt Fellow Dr. Wilson received his A.B. :from Johns Hopkins, his M.A. from Yale and his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania. Among the many honors he has received, he is a mem- ber of Phi Beta Kappa and has re- ceived a Fulbright fellowship to France. In France, he studied at the University Gf Paris. He has taught at the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Baltimore, Franklin Col- lege and Goucher College. He will l:'erve as an assistant professot' of economics. Mr. Thurston is a graduate of Syra- cuse and received his M.A. at Colum- bia. He has also studied at Columbia University's East Asian Institute. He taught at Tenafly High School, Tena- fly, New Jersey and Tohoku Univer- sity, Sendai, Japan. He will be an in- structor of hi'story. Dr. Daniels, a graduate of Trinity College, did graduate work at MIT PROF'ESSOR LAMBERT PROFESSOR Tl'TUS and received his Ph.D. from Brandeis. Among the many honors he has re- ceived, he is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and received a Fulbright Grant to study at J. W. Goethe Universitat, in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. He has served as teaching assistant at MIT and Brandeis and will be an As- sistant professor of Chemistry at Union. Union Alumnus Dr. Bick, a graduate of Union (class of '58), received his M.S. and Ph.D. from the University of Rochester. He taught for the last five years at Ho- bart and will be an associate profes- sor of math here. Mr. Holmes has taught at both Al- bany State and Union. He was an ad- junct associate professor and will now be an Associate Professor of Indus- trial Administration and director Qf the Industrial and Social Science Re- search Center. Thursday, March 24, 1966 Lambert, Titus Receive A wards For New Study Francis Lambe! t, As·sociate Profes- ;:,ot of Physiul(:)gy and Biophysics of the l' niun College Biology Depart- ment, will be a .cunsultant in biology to t.te :VIilustry of Education of the Indian Govemment. The progt·am is designed to help 1nJiaH high Sl'huol teachers to improve their teaching te2hniques and exp.and their scientific knowledge in their fblds. The .pl'ogram, known as Sum- mer Science Institute, wi.Jl emulate in muny as.peets the Nationa.l Science Foundation which sponsors many sim- ilar prog·rams in the United State's. Consultant The Summer Science Instj.tute will be run under the direction of an all Indian Staff with the exception of two Americans at each educational site. Professor Lambert will be acting as consultant in this capacity. The Indian Government a.s weU as the Agency of International Develop- ment is supplying funds for the pro- gram. Professor Lambert plans to spend tw0 weeks in Japan before returning to India. He will spend seven weeks working in the summer ·program, May :10 to July 19, and then one addi- tional vveek to·uring India. In spite of the fact that India has 485 languages, Profes-sor Lamberthas no fear of a language barrier. Eng- lis•h is the fourth most common spok- en language and is the language used in must higher education institutes. It is not yet known if any research pa- per will be published with Professor Lambert's return. N .S.F. Grant Professor W. Franklin Titus of the Union College Physics Department, has recently been awarded a National Science Foundation grant, and will conduct his re'search on the Union: Col- lege Campus this summer. His research will concern itself with how a particle behaves when shot into various media. Profess{)r Titus will give a preliminary data re- port this spring and then present a more complete account at the conclu- sion of his summet· research. Profes- sor Titus has received other National Science Foundation grants previous to this one. Meeting There will be a meeting for all Pre-Medical and Pre-Dental students who wish to apply for entrance to professional school in September, 1967. The meeting will take place on Thursday, April 14, at 11 :30 A.M. in the Biology building, room 201. It is of great importance that all those expecting to apply to Medical or Dental College attend. He has published tht·ee novels and several volumes of short stories, dramas, and screenplays. He has also spoken in Latin America about contemporary Hungarian literature and the position of the writer in an East European society. Mr. Boldig'sar speaks several languages fluently. He has translated the works of Franz Kafka, Aldous Huxley, G. lL Chesterton, Richard Hughes, Fran- eois Maut'iax, and Joseph Roth. Graduation Weekend Planned By Seniors Early Activities Hr 11a.; bum in Budape::lt, Hungary's capital, in 1912. HiB early literary <lllU vuliticai .lc<il iL;c~ 1\\Cll: l\lJ!llJCd<.:U llilh the Hungarian vuvuli;:;t muvement of the l!J:JU:;, 11hkh tri\'d tu arouse public uviniun abuuL the very puot· living cunditiur.b ui the pea,anb. Dul\ing VI\ orld \\ ar ll, he wa;; -a:;sociated with the :;mall nnt-i-Gl'l\man n•::i:<tarll'l' rnol'l'llll'nt. l! i:-; book on this group, entitled The Other II ungary, was publisht•c! in English in 1 !J46. .i.fter the war, :'vir. llolu.izsar edited several newspapers, including the official f!aily cof the \\'a tiona! l'easan t Party. He also served as Under :::iecretary of ~tate in till' Hungarim, i'·m.•ig:n :Ministry. Shortly after the 1956 uprising, he wa·s briefly detained by Russian authorities and was then released. Markson • • • Coatinued from Page 1, Col. 5 rollicking satire on the 'vild west. Dingus is an orphan. His fathe1· lost his mother to a whitP slave owner in a game of faro and then got himself shot through the head during a poker game for producing three ares, two of the ·same suit. For the love of Juicy Druey, Dingus becomes an Indian fighter, an outlaw, and a !'espectable banlter. He goes around \'.Titing his name in the dust after a crime has been committed in order to get credit for it. Finally, he decides it's time \to go off and do some honest ·stealing\ and goes to Yerkey's Hole, New Mexico, to hold up the town's biggest industry, a brothel. Editors of eighteen publishing houses read the manuscript but didn't need it. Bobs-Merril, however, took a ch.ance and gave Markson a $1,500 advance. \Unabashed\ Hailed by Life as \the most genu- inely, unabashed, comic novel to come out in many a gloomy season\ with \language that often pops like fire- works,\ Dingus caught the eye of ::M.G.M. Among his other creations are sev- eral articles for the Saturday Evening Post including \White Apache,\ and several mystery novels published by Dell, the latest being Gladys Doll, Go Home. Officers for Class Day were elected, and other plans for Graduation Week- Pnd were nnnounred at a meeting of thP ~Pniot· rla~s on Tue'f'day, :vfarch 22, at 11 :!30 in Memorial Chapel. Plans fnt· thP Senior W('ekend conct'rt were also announced. Class Marshals will be Tom Hitch- cock and Bob DeMichele. The Ivy O!'ator, who will Apeak of the physical plant, anrl with other members of the class will plant the traditional ivy, will be David Kasper. Pipe Orator Bob Hoffman ha.s been elected Pipe Orator. He will discu&s other aspects of the college and dass, and pass the pipe for smoking on Class Day. The Class Historian 'A'ill be Tom Morgan, who will give a history of the Class of 1966. Acting as Class Prophet, with prose philo'sophizing, will be David Braff, Marcus Hurlbut has been chosen to lead the singing as Class Song Lead- er while Rod Tulloss has been elected Class Poet. And finally the time hon- ored title of Keeper of the Jug will be held by Fred Hay, The calendar of events for Gradu- ation Weekend was tentatively an- nounced at Tuesday's meeting. The weekend will begin on Friday after- noon, June 3, with a program in Jack- 135 ERIE BOULEVARD SENIOR WEEKEND COMMITI'EE son's Gardens at which the Class Day officers will .speak and the Keeper of the Jug will begin his reign. A \Sen- ior Sail\ aboard the Ticonderoga on Lake George will highlight Friday night's events. On Saturday morning, an alumni parade vdll take place, and the after- noon will be devoted to parents and a musical concert. Graduation cere- monies will take place on Sunday morning in the Field House Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere B\oulevard Bowl HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSIC£~L.ER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 32 AMF BOWLfNG LANES -Open 24 Hours Daily- SNACK BAR ON PREMISES 346-4238 TRAVEL - CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL • CHARTER BUS Thursday n· If T STUI I) , -II CHAl HEI .. J iiJ 1 ~ i· State1r , Our inten evidence. A. The set out in thought a the propo~ their imp.l heal interests < be best se concern fo B. We of one pa The recent Union des the propo! spective. There h \Union pre~ recent yea far i'nto th '11\stantly p.h ' early sixti• Publication those yeal.'~ general in '\student do. the period I i\'ed for 1 c·asm or in Within t. student at , crease in il lttstudents lh calls to mjJ young men make mea1 Many of u social or p ties. It i~ turn to oui could be cl is proposa-ls ~ in which t and if the he undel1St• it was. C. It is purposes b statement, desire \to speak plain D. Lastl posaLs not and thougr ,talks witl the Counse: these .propo as more in: Friday, ~ Raturday Monday, Tuesday, Musi Wednesd: H.H. Mem Thursday 11:3( Friday, A Colony-' and'' Proctor- Scotia A1 Ursa] State-u1 1125 B Enjoy Siz:

24, 1966 udy Profes- physics. of Depart- in biology on of the to help improve exp.and in their as Sum- in Science sim- State's. will of an all of two onal site. acting as weH as Develop- the pro- to spend returning weeks ·program, one addi- India has Eng- spok- used It pa- Professor us of the partment, National and will Col- rn itself when Professor re- a conclu- Profes- National previous for all students to place :30 A.l\l. m 201. that all Medical alumni after- and a cere- Sunday I' \ Thursday, March 24, 1966 Text Of S.C. Plan For Social Liberalization STUDENT BODY PROPOSALS FOR CHANGE IN SOCIAL REGULATIONS AND HELATED AREAS OF THE STUD· E::\\TS' ENVIRONMENT <!. Statement of Purpose. Histo!:'ical background. t' ,, Our intention. to deal fmukly. Basis in detailed evidence. A. The student council makes the proposa'ls out in part II of this s.tatement after reasoned thought and extensive discussion. They feel that the proposals are practica:ble and reascmable that 1 their implementation will result in a psych~logi- Ucally healthier envirorunent, and that the best interests of l.;nion College as an inst1tution wiU be best serve·d by cha·nges which evidence simila1· concern for the best interest of individuals. B. We see these proposals as the culmination of one part of a continuing process of change. The recent history of student life and thought at Union deserves some attention in 01\<ler to put the proposals listed below in their proper per- spective. 9 There has always been a vocal minority at ·: Pnion pressing fot' social change. But never in 1 recent years, has the question been brought as I far j,nto the open as it has at this moment. Con- !11\stantly plagued by apathy, the late fifties and ! early sixties, saw a real low in student interests. I Publications, for example, were empty during· those yeal's; activities had low membership. The impression one receives from reading student documents and speaking with alumni Df the period is that students focused on themselves, lived for the day, regarded activities with sa1'- <'asm or indifference. Within the last few years a general change in student attitudes has been reflected in an in- crease in interest in the world in which those lf:st.uut>n.o:; live. This is not at all surprising if one calls to mind the large number of fields in which young men and women have learned that they can make meaningful contributions ·to their society. of us have the experience of working for social or political change in our home communi- ties. It is in no way unusual that we should turn to our own garden after we have seen what 9 c~uld b~ done for our neighbors'. ;A.ll of th!s h1story 1s necess);lry prefa.tory mater1al if these proposals are to be viewed in 1:he .sr:.>rious light in which they are viewed by the student body and if the spirit. in which they were written is to he undevstood for the reasoned and mature one it was. C. It is our intent .that all our reasons and purposes be made manifest in the body of this statement, to indicate our good will and our desire \to put our cards on •the table,\ and to speak plainly and frankly. D. Lastly, it should be noted that these pro- posaLs not only arise from student experience and thought, but have also had the benefit of . ,talks with the dormitory counselors and ' the Counselors to Students; and we believe that these .proposals can, for this rea,son, be construed as more in line with general problems than if they had evolved tota:lly from complaints of a few indi- viduals. II. PROPOSALS dealing with entertaining guests in the dormitory lounges and rooms, plant changes, use of alcoholic beverages. A. Lounges: 1. We propose that first floor lounges in all dormitories be open to all guests twenty-four hours a day. 2. We recommend that lounges on aJ;J other floors be open during the following hours: On Friday-6 P.M. to midnight On Saturday Noon 5 .P.l\1, and 7 P.M.-1 A.M. On Sunday-1 P.M. to 9 P.M. 3. Remarks: Use of upper floor lounges is proposed with the above restricti·ons for the fol- lowing reasons: (1) to allow use of shower facilities whose only entrance is through the lom\'ge B. Student Rooms: 1. We propose that student be alLowed to en- tertain guests in their rooms during tbe fol·lowing periods: On Saturday--Noon to :i P.M., 7 P.!\1. to midnight On Sunday-1 P.M. to 6 P.M. (di.nn'E!r) C. Plant Changes: We propose that the suggestions ma·de by the rlormitory counselors with regard te> changes in plant be accepted in their entirety as a start on the changes necessary in the physical environ- ment of Union. D. Alcoholic Be·verages: We propose that alcoholic beverages oe .allowed to be stored and served by students over eighteen years of age. (Abuse <>f this privilege not to be tolerated). III. General remarks addressed to members of the Faculty, the Administration and the Board of Trustees. A. We believe that the above propo.sal are a sta11t at dealing with real problems fsced by the Union student in his present environment. We believe that, with such changes in effec·t, student life, on the level which is most important-the level of person to person dealings, will approxim- ate reali-ty to a much greater degree than it does now. The following example is cited in order to accent the de81ply disturbing nature of the prob- lems in which our proposals hope to deal: Par- ticularly in North College and Richmond the a~­ sence of a place for a guest .to so much as watt, together with the cell-like nature of the rooms, produces an atmosphere which, besides its m~re proJound psychological effects, depresses the m- dividual by its lack of interest in the humane and drains the vital elements of his personality- those elements that give him motivation and the will to establish his identity through significant Wild party at Richmond House's Guest Room. Present social rules exclude .people. actions. Now, with regard to this particular prob- lem, it is clear to us that the proposals listed above will change the atmosl)here under which the student lives, thus giving him the opportunity to make something meaningful of his life, and an ·individual of himself. B. Moreover, we believe that, in the interests of improving our communications with faculty, administration, and trustees, we should record what our expectations are and what shape we expect student opinion to take in the future: 1. The above proposals we regard as moder- ate, reasonable, and necessar,Y. They cover one area of our environment which, at preosent, matches our needs particularly poorly. The fac- utty, administration, and trustees should expect prC>posals on other areas .of college life to be forthcoming whether ·or not the students receive satisfaction in the specific area covered by the proposals here listed. We do not feel that fur- ther proposaLs in any field should be construed as •sore-headed complaints by a student body to whom great wncessions have already been made. We wish •to underline the point that we chose to start with this set of praposals fully intending 1:Jo propose changes in nearly all other parts of our college environment. 2. Will the SJtudents be satisfied in the area of s<>cial regulations even if they get acceptance of their whole package'! This question is diffi- cult to answer now. The students as well as the administ11ators need to see their proposals in aeti•on before they can mold them further to fit their needs. AnalYJs1s ·of success or failure of this proposal is expeeted. Further requests for change will come if appropri:ate. 3. What would the students regard as a fair trial of the..se proposals? or ruther, What would the students feel would be an unfair .trial? We would react to the rejection of these proposals on the basis of the behavior CY.f a sma:ll minority of irresponsible students as unfair. We hope that all students will act as responsible citizens of this community; they will he aware that their future happiness depends on responsible be.havior. At the same time, we can realistically env1s1on abuse of these regulati•ons .by a very few indi- viduals. We believe that if this were the case, these individuals would have laid themselves open to criticism and, disciplinary action. But we believe no further conclusions regarding the feasi- bility of the above proposals could be drawn. 4. We wish to make it completely plain that members .of the student body are entirely willing tG take part in open discussion of the above pro- posals in order to clear up difficulties and to dispense with misunderstanding. IV. General remarks addressed to the Student Body. This series o.f proposals will do much to re- make the environment in which we students are spending four years of our Jives. \Yhen insti- tuted they will deli\'€!' into the students' h:mds some' of the freedoms which they are no\v denied, but 'vhich they believe to have been theirs by right. The changes can thus be construed as a move toward a state which we have long assumed to be the right one-the ·one consistent with the basic value of honesty which we hold in common. An important characteri·stic of this state is that there will be no suppression, no punislunent for honesty and openness. The student will be faced with the difficult, but not insurmountuble, tas·k of forming relationships that are free of the pressures involved in evading foolishly hat·sh regulations, free of the unmerited stigma that comes with the breaking of such rules. A second hard, but manageable, task is the student's mak- ing something out of himself. Like the All Col- lege Council, these proposal-s hold out the pr·om- ise of giving the student more o·f a voice in his own affairs. While the ACC deals with external ways and means, the student will deal with the forming CY.f his individual behavior, beliefs, and goals to a far grea:ter eXJtent than ever before if these proP'osals are put into effect. This boils down to the fact that support of these proposals places a responsibility on the individual student which for many will be wholely new-the responsibility for one's own aots. A simple way to say it is: The student will be recognized as the man he is-responsible to him- self and to his community. V. Provision for educating students ou the sub- ject of responsibility and freedom for growth. La·stly, the Student Council recommends, in line with the convictions just set out, that the Student Handbook contain complementary articles by at least two graduating seni·or:s in order to inform incoming freshmen of the history of the movement for change at Union and of their place as newcomers in a community which offers them new responsibilities and opportunities for grovvth . We recommend that the same topics be cov- ered in Freshman Oriellltation. CAMPUS CALENDAR Weekend Woe: Mums The Word Friday, March 25: Ad-interim Report. Raturday, March 26- Sunday April 3: Spring· \';~cation. Monday, April 4: Classes resume. Tuesday, April 5: I.F.C. Meeting, H.H.S.L., 7:00 p.m. Music Room Library, Robert Dana: Poet from Cornell, 7::JO p.m. Wednesday, April 6: I.R.G., 8:00 p.m., H.H.S.L. H.H.S.L., Union Outing Club, 4:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel, Violin and Piano Recital, 8:00 p.m. Thursday, April 7: Convocation, Robert Corrigan, Memorial Chapel 11:30 a.m. Fiiday, April 8: Christian Science Lecture, Memorial Chapel, 8:.15 p.m. AROUND TOWN By Dee Singer Time: Early Friday afternoon, first rlay of Winter Weekend. Setting: Probably a f1·aterni1ly house, but pl}ssibly anywhere. A group of peo- ple enter the room; a boy and girl spot each other, immediate smiles and much excitement is evident as they approach. He: Oh, hi! Sht>: Hi! Good to see you! He: Good to see you! How are you? She: F'ine, and how are you'! He: Fine, and you? She: Fine ........... (Ad nauseum.) Why? sation, thereby removing the S't1·ain from the individual. Few couples dare ven- ture out to dinner alone. It i~ t.:1e long lapse CYf conversation, which is deadly; the interminable (five minute) silence that so many of our Winter-weel\enders fear. It i.s sad that so many boys and girls cannot sit for any length ·of time rext to each other, in silence, without feeling nervous, u.ncomfortnble and final~ .Jy panicky. I suppose that some of the ·blame lie.s wi:thin the nature of the college. By forcing the student (for the mos;t part) to limit his contact with women to a few hours a week in public places, it also fC>rces the student to make dates that he doesn't really want. The moot blatantly pathetic results, as I have tried to point out, occur on the college WEEK- Colony-\lrma La Douce\ starring Shirley McLaine and Jack Lemmon and \Tom Jones\ starring Albert Finney. Yes, gentlemen, the dialogue of our time. I have no way of knowing how man'Y times or 1n how many ways <this little sickening scene was repeated throughout the weekend but I would guess it W21S plenty. Now, obviously there is nothing nauseating about polite greetings be- tween a man and h1s date, but, gentle- men, this conversation went on for bet- ter than twenty minutes until both par- ties stn1ggling and stammel'ing, reached the oute1• limits of human creativity in their effe>rts to find still another way of saying \hello.\ . Why? Because .th':Y obviously had httle else to say,-1t Js frightening to think that some peo·ple had forty-ei-ght hours to spend together this way. Exciting weeltend date. Say it with END. In s·ome cases gentlemen make flowers, but say something. dates to spend forty-eight hours with young ladies they wouldn't ordinarily Many couples are rescued from each spend ten minutes with. And let me other by the activities ·of the fas.t-paced tell you, by la:te .Saturday .afternoon week-end. There are, (thank God), the things can get pretty ecchy. Proctor-''The Silencers\ starring Dean Martin. Scotia Art-\Tenth Victim\ starring Marcello Masotroianni and Ursala An!lress. State-\To Trap a Spy\ starring Robert Vaughn and David McCullum. LUIGI'S RE.STAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food 1125 BARRETTT ST. Schenectady 01 6-97 44 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRV LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Cc:ill Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 I I I concerts when the ·ban on silence is lifted I would therefore cauti.on the stud- and each can sit and relax, at least for A~t-if you cannot .say \heilo\ to a gh·l an hour, without fmntically searching his in less than twenty minutes and then mind for the next piece of nothing to say move into a more meaningful area 'Of to his date. Meal time, in a -large groU'p convel'lsation, don't invite her to Spring at the fraternity house, ·or with several Weekend. I couldn't bear to hear an- couples at a restaurant, is always a life other one .of those Marx Brother rou- saver-everybod~ chips in with conver- jnes. D'AMICO'S TEXACO SERVICE ROAD SERVICE 1757 Van Vranken Ave. Phone FR 2-97 67 t 9 # f + + f f + f I 9 i ¥ f + 9 + ¥ ¥ t f t f t t t f f f w ¥ + ¥ ¥ ¥' Y ¥¥ Y + f ¥ + + Y 'i DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 • 120 JAY STREET • 4 ............... f. + + • + + + + + & ... 4 •• + •••••••••• + ·~~ 3

4 Olnur.nr Published F'rldaye dUJ'lnll:' tile school year by the StudPnt Body ·or Union Colle~re. Schenectady, N. Y. N a· tiona! Advertising RepreEenta.tlve !'Jatlonal Advertle!ng Ser-vice. Inc .. College Publishers Repr-eEenta.tlve. UO 1\.[adlson Ave .. N. Y. ·C. Edit<>rlai Otfke. Old Gym. L'nlon · ColiPge. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 602 Broadway. Entered in the Sche· nectady Post Office as Second Class ~!all 1\latter. Sul>scrlpticn I5c a copy: U a year dellver•d anywhere in the Pnl !P<I States SE:-HOR llO.\Rll Thursday, March 24, 1966 Book Review: Letters To The Editor • Picasso, Kafka I' p y· . In light of the authoritarian to the clicta:tes of good taste. · 00r 1m10g action taken by the council on Professor Thimm's performance 1 . · March 8, which is indicntiYe of was indeed crude, if not rude. Success and .Failure of Picasso, I To the Editor: certain deep-seated, anti-demo- Professor Thimm has set a poor : Jolin Berger. Penguin 1965. Di- · It seems that Mr. TuUoss was crabic attitudes wh.:ch evidently example in fulfilling his pro·fes- ' aries, Franz Kafka, Schoh•n cuiTect when he spoke a.bout an; pervade that body, I deny th:.o sional ami gentlemanly .responsi- Books, 1965. 1 inm·ease i1~ impersonal bureauc- fallacious anr!. , naive assertion hili Lies. Quite evidently he is S() . 1·acy on th1s campus. An exam- that the councils utterances are emotiona,lly involved in thtJ de- This is the latest of many re- j p!e of this recently affected most representative of anyLhing bu: bat.e issue that he can hardl'Y cent critical and biographicu:l fo~·eign language studeNts. , t~e jauJ_Jdiced vie1V1s of the c:>un- ~on~rol his behavior. This is un- hooks on Picusso. Jahn Berger I fht• Dt'partment ·of Modern ell's offiCers and rnembe~s, mo~t fortmute. It does not, however, deals first of all with the leg·end 1 Lang~ag<;~ h~ld scheduled hour ·Of wh?m no longer re o~n:z.= the:1 :ondone his distasteful perform- of the 1nan who ha•s become the! examimJ:twns. 111 most courses for, commi.tment to resp?nsible rep~e- :m. e. ! most popularly known name in 1 the couvo~atwn houy on Thurs- sentatwn o.f the v!e.ws _of t.Je A Dismayed Student ' the art \Vorld, As the author ida~·, l\:Iaech 17. Th~s, ?f course,. student b~dy, prac.t!cl•';lg, n;stea:?, ============= ROlll•:HT ~TOI.ZB'F:RU' '6.;.. 34 6·q959 ROfll-:HT ROSE~Tl!A l. 'li 7. .. . ...... 34 6-9959 DO:SALL> SL'HWAHTZ ·'6·o ................. :l93·0433 ; observes, however, only one in a 1 \\'as done at the ?egummg of the. !,he coHecti\'e prost!~UtiOn ol the1r • hundred of those who Jc.now the 1 st•mcstL•r, when It was assumed mteHscts for their o.wn .en~ls. t·;oitor-in·Chi<>f · name Picasso know the names of i L~at thet·e, would be no co~voca- I, for one,. a~ deeply dts.sa:trsf.Ied Duslness l'l!anager . j. ot· coul·d recognize any ot· his t.ons schecmlcd for that tun~. . . by the exrsbng state of atf:l!l'.S, Open Rooms · · ... :\Ian~':.!~~ ~~~;~:· ·; paintings. The name of Picasso . 0 Ill' wcel\ before the. exa,nuna- and I call an the member.s of t!te To the Editor: l•'t>ature l<::ditor . • e\·okes drama and mrsticism. The bons, howc:Yer, C:o_ncordrensis .an- student. body to uns~at the 1:- Cogent suggestion: I rationally ~lOH'f'l KA~IZAX 'G ; ......................... .. 1'.\1'!. i<HP.RWIX '67 Spo,,ts Editor . man himself has sueh a dynamic nounced that C!lllton Ro·sSiter responsihle and anti-d~m?cratJC suggest that all human beings be '-----------------------------··. 1't'l'sonal!t~· sueh a 11 uicl· ·il\'t;!' would speak durmg the normal elements on the councrl m the allowed in the dorms at any tlffie. A:>:DR E\V C'OI.B '61.. Dorm R:u]es: Well Done • mind anrt s~ many inconsist':ncies ronvocation .hour, while t•xams next election, ending Union Col-• These humau beings may be lim- , that his leg·end is a eoafused ~me. were to hl• m progr<>ss. These lege's current travesty on stud-. ited to guests of students. · elQams were not rescheduled. ent government. · Rationally yours, He is single-minded; all his Thus many students were !lepriv- Yours sincerely Charles Nunzio • interE\st3 are centered on his art· ed ,>f the opportunity to hear Mr. THE IDLER '66· he is fascinuted by and devoted Rossiter speak. ' ·============= to his own creativity. How much I object to this on two grounds. The Student Council's proposals for amending the he is caught up in his art is First, a requirement for gradua- d shown by the fact that he denies tion is regular convocrubion at- present social rules are an excellent start on the r()a · to that there. is any such thing as tendan~e. There should be no Uncoutb Wins Award individual student responsibility for his actions. Tlley pro- progress m the creation of a other college functions that con- To the EditOl': The John J. Quilan Memorial vide for a limited pilot program which will allow modifica-. painting; each step or change met with a student's oppo!'tun- As an observer of the Faculty Scholarship has been awarded tion and further liberalization as experience with the sys- rne~·ely reflects a change in the ity to attend. Classes and main-. Debate on Tuesday evening, I can- this year to Neil C!'mpman, a tem is gained. artist. What he is, is far more tenance periods, affecting every not help but express my amaze- Junior and a pre-medical student important to him than what he student on this campus, are not ment and dismay regarding th at Union. The most imnortant result of the implementation of the does. Berger says of Picasso's held; why should language exams non-academic, undemocratic, anc .t' • f h lth 'loneliness, concerning a small percentage of 1 th f The scholarship is given every program would be to set the foundat10ns or ea Y per- the coHege c(}mmunity, be impos- ~;n~~!l':r t~~c~~rtici::~t~~mancl year to a deserving Union stud- sonal relationships. At present, the campus has no place 'He is lonely in the same way sible to reschedule? Secondly, As a member of the academic ent 1·esiding in Schenectady Coun-- where a man and his date can enJ'oy any privacy. He is as a lunatic is lonely· because the ·convocati'.on system was, I . f h ld t\. It was first origina·ted by 't t tl 1 · · ' commumty, a pro·essor s ou • b t f th w b allowed to get drunk but not to talk. The opening up of 1 seems 0 le unabc that, since , assume, designed to .give the Un- present his views in a rational, William L. We 8 1 s ere, 0 e Ie c- the dormitories will rectify this condition. he neveJ· meets oppos'iotion, that ion student a chance to broaden scholarly manner. But emotion- ster Motor aJehs JomQpa.nly, , 4 11 0 • he can do anrthing. It is-by a h,1's i11tellectual ou.ll,ook. How can d · in memory of 0 n · UI an, ' The results of this will be important, if not obvious. It will be manifested in many subtle ways, among which might be less of the weekend emphasis to get away !rom campus no matter what the cost, and more empba.slS on what the college <loes offer the stud-ent. l tl I 1. alism, irrationality, an sarcaslffi · l'f · w 1d W para< ox- le one mess of self- he do so I'f the adm·I·n·I·stratr've 'd . p f' who lost hi's I e 111 or ar ff . · were all too evi ent m ro essor · · t · su Icrency. This .is not neces- bureaucracy does not permit him . ' rf II. The scholarship JS mam am- sa.rily a loneliness that is suffered tt 1\ Thimm s pe ormance. ed by annual donations from Mr. l · 1 t0 a. enc · As a member of a democratic < Trect , .. ,. more o.ften it is a lo11e- I l k h · · ~~r bster • < o not now w o IS respons1- community, a profe~sor must be n e · liness that provokes ceaseless ll f th h d 1' -\' 1 · th o of Mr J e ot· e sc e · u Ing IY.t 1our Wl'lling to hear opposing views Campman IS e s n · activity anrt gives no rest.' b t I t th t 1 M D · ht C man of Picasso's is a strange genius. But beyond this, will be the growth of mutual confi- He denies the power of reason exams, u sugge& a 1e re- and be given an opportunity to and rs. Wig · amp examine his policies, One of the challenge the substance, not the 1031 Peter Road, Schenectady. admntages of a small college is spokesman, of the·se vi61Ws. Pro- Before coming to Union, l1e at- its flexibility; those in char.ge fessor Thimm's constant interrup- tended Mohonasen High School, are not concerned with moving tions and numerous personal at- where he distinguis~ed him.self hordes of students from place tacks were appaHing. as a student. At Umon, he IS a to place. !f we lose this advan- 1 As a gentieman, an individual j member of the trac)': and cross- tage, we vall soon lose others, as (whether a professor or not) . country teams a!1d 1s a member our make-,believe game of being must cu!'b his behavior according II of Beta Theta. P1. dence between the administration and the trustees on the and despises argument. He one hand and the student body on the other. All too fre- claims that there is no such thing quently in the past, this relationship has been mutilated as. development. in art. _AU ~hat by distrust and suspicion on both sides. This feeling can m.!tt~~s Is. that the arhst 1s a d b li f b t th t d t . 'bl d cl~.atJ\e bemg. be trace to a e e t a e s u en s are 1rrespons1 e an . . the corollary of this among the students that they won't . There Is a .refreshi.ng absence · · · h t t h th dm\ ·of 'art-book' Jargo.n m Berger's ~et a _fair ~earmg so W Y even ry . O a:pproac · e a n;t- ana!ysis of Pirasso's work. Pi- lstratwn With new :proposals. Happily, It appears that thiS casso's raret!t' is traced through era is over. ea~h of its many )}hases. Berger large ~onht!nueds: ~s 1 Mr. Tullosst .. , , • ., , , , , , , , , , , , , , , .. , , noted m . IS e Itona , we are no that big. The multiversity is by EASTERN AVENUE FRANK FERRARO nature inflexible; the community . It is in this spirit of trust, the student body has pre- sented its proposals to the administration. It has d<me so with hope that President Martin and the trustees will act favorably on these recommendations. It is hard to see how they can do otherwise, for the Student Council recommen- dations are the ultimate in reason and moderation. They are, indeed, the very least that can be done which will have any significance. does not eulogjse the painter and is not afrai·d to criticize. One fault is t!mt too little mention is made of Picasso's scul·pture, and tha.t some of Berger's the- ories are pushed to extremes- f·or examplP h:s insistence on the revolutionary nature of the paint- er. The book must be read with a grain of Ral t, but despite this is worthwhile and constructiYe. of scholars must not be. PIZZERIA Robert A. Fried '69 Wholesale and Retail Spring Thaw To the Editor: It is becoming increasingly ap- parent with the spring thaw, that the large volume <>f snow whkh. has covered the Union College campus for the past four or five months, has also concea'led num- 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 Fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily- Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-1763 The situation resolves itself into a question of whether the students are willing to accept the burdens that re- sponsibility places upon them and whether the admin- Kalka 1 , erous and unattraotive bits of rubbish which do nothing but • • 4 • 4 .... • • • • • • • • • 4 • • • • • • istration and trustees are willing to trust their maturity Like so many of the editions b'emish t.he .grounds. It seems 1 ~,__.,_,.,,..,,..,.,.,_.,.,.,...,_.,.,.,,.\\~.,_.,-.,.,.,~.,.,.,..,.,.,.,., that a logical s~lution to this : and ability to handle this added respolli:libility. of Kafka's works, these two vol- p1·oblem is to place a sufficient number of rubbish recepticals at strategic spots on the campus su as to disl\ourage any further l't~ering. • . . umes of his diaries are edited by The students have affirmed their willingness to accept l\llaJ{ Brocl. we are indebted to their part of this burden. It is now up to the trustees and him and to the Muirs for bring- administration to fulfill theirs. The Concordiensis feels con- ing to the attention of the public fident that this opportunity will not be allowed to pass, for ~he wo:ks of this Cz~choslov~k- t de Y the students in this proposal will be a severe set- lan gemus,.most of ':'hlch 1 :em:::m- o n . . . . ed unpublished dur;ng Jus life- back to the work President Martm has accom:phsbed m time. It was no-t until several It would bt' an unfortunate de- precation of Union's beautiful physical plant if sairl littering continues. Fastidiously, Jeffrey H. Nielson '69 Stewart P. Moss '69 gaining their respect and confidence. We sincerely hope yca.rs after Kafka's death in 1924 that the individuals and college bodies which must now act that his frie._nd, Max . Brad, was upon this proposal will do so, affirmatively and quickly. able to convmce .Pubhshers that here was a wr1ter ·of unusual ============= ability. This edition of the let- Forced Fun The current for1n of the Physical Education program should be replaced by- a non-compulsory system. The new system might make provision for remedial work, but would eliminate the maintainance program. The present program is based on the premise that the college has the responsibility for the physical health of the student. Unfortunately, in practice the program goes far beyond this tenable principle. The college gives tests twice a. year to all students. According to the gym department, these tests determine who is fit and who is not. The latter category of llllfor- tunates goes to flab lab. The former category takes pro- ficiency tests. Those who pass these are assumed to have skills in at least two sports. If this seems basic. it is meant to be, for the obvious conclusion is that those who pass the fitness tests and the proficiency tests should be exempt from the obligation of two hours of forced. fun per week for they have already achieved the program's goals. But beyond this, the physical education department has an obligation to provide more opportunity for learning, All too often, instruction has been carried on lackadaisi- cally with oversized classes and indifferent instructors. And instruction beyond remedial and beginning stages has been nearly totally absent. The college has generally abandoned forced attend- ance at academic classe-s because the worth of these was made obvious to the iluiividual. It is time that the physi- cal education department also eliri:Jinated its relianee on coercion. tet·s was first published in hard Censure Censured covers in 1948, and it is a fair indication of Kafka's slO\Y ri.se To the Edi.tQr: to populari·ty that this paperback I It is truly unfortunate and, as edition appeared only a few one faculty member remarked months ago. last week, \indicative of condi- Kafka's life contains few in- tions prevalent on the Union Col- cidents that are outwardly re- lege campus\ that the controver- markable. He wills born in Prague sy surrounding the PubHcaitions in 1883, graduated in law and Board, Ml', Newman, and the led a life . 0 f office work until his Student Council Resolution :J:I: 150 death. His spare time was spent should become a cause celebre writing, but he had little success when there are so many more with his efforts at fin:ding a pub- important issues with which the Iisher. Some travel in othe·r students might and should be European countries and tw.o love ··concerned. However, the Student affairs which ended in broken en- Council's action of March 8 has gagernents are the only other oh- raised a question which, I be- viously noteworthy events of his lieve deserves public discussion. Life. He contracted tuberculosis The question I refer to is wheth- in 1917 and died after a prolong- er or not the Student Council ed illness in 1924. presently fulfills ·the purposes of What then is it about his life that mal\es these diaries so in- tere:;;ting? Ka.fka's world lms a quality of its own. It is a wm:ld which is intense and crowds h;m with a confusing whirl; it is a world of frustrations and insolu- ble dilemmas; it is a world where the individual is simultaneously everything and nothing. Kafka's l:\emarkable percepticm and his ability to express his most pro- found introspection is reflected here, perhaps even more so ·than in the novels or short stories. Tbe di·aries sh!ow a highly self- eonscious writer, with the cour- age and .conviction 1o examine his awn ·situation, trying to make s·ense of a terrifying world of tenuous mea.ning. responsible, democratic student government. Despite Mr. Rat- ner's intermittent exhortations to give my implicit support to the councH's enunciated p~ositions on such dea1·-to-his-heart issues as ~allege government and the social rnles, I hesitate to support a body which irnagi<nes itself so far re- :no\·ej from the control of its :·onstituents that it no longer tolerates critidsm of the status quo which it maintains; which 'rnagines l.ibel in resp011sible crit- icism; which is more concerned with its self-esteem tha.n with :ts legislative and representa- tional responsibiHuies; and which takes impulsive, irresj}onsilble, and anti-democratic •actions to sil-, ence semi-independe:rut, critical viewpoints. lARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment· Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. -Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE Dampen the ellect of rain, not only the moisture that chills the bone, f!ut the wrinltles that despoil a correct appearance. Thanks to the benefits of polyester and cotton fabrics. SEASON MATES by Best Coat Co. 39.95 DAVI!\S ~quire ~qnp j\{ 326 STATE ST. PH. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 ,'11 ., Thursdal Viet Con A .good tered 01 ~J recomme1 States 1 Vietnam. Viet Cor ~> the recm conferenc rebuttal, would be ~ ence. T· fantastic In the • ticipants their a:ss1 , 13 ed out th' nlistic ant the Viet fessor G: Eastern :E ll ·~ the oppor to retain .Prof e ss·or the situat ' , IJ by the U Thimm cc his belief sents a tl Mr. Za 11 that the 1 mously s that the sponsor si issues on 1 h '· future. Phi ~ (Continuec Most E abolished •» .e has petiti< It is ex will be de charter du ;;:. ing in Au1 . '\ Dl Enjoy Cooked Comfo1 Opp. Open I t \ Sunda1 9 {I LO Junio1 Inc;, En Thes1 JUNI the I Will! Cane must See Y' ;, We

1966 Thursday, March 24, 1966 & ~--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------ 5 Vietnam. Kingston Trio Signs For Seni.or od taste. rude. poor 1' s pro·fes- ·responsi- he is so th€ de- hardl'Y ''' is un- however, perform- Student he time. y be lim- yours, Nunzio awarded pman, a student every on stud- Coull·· by Web- Inc. '40, rld War Mr. of Mr. tl • • Continued from Page 1 A .good deal of controversy cen- · tered on Professor Willison's 111 recommendation that the United States withdraw slowly from Vietnam. He suggested that the Viet Cong would then ask for 1• the reconvening .of the Geneva conference. Professor Thi'mm, in rebuttal, st:J.,ted flatly that \there would be no reason for a confer- ~ ence. The very idea 'is uttel\!y . · fantastic and unreal.\ C\hiua a Threat\? The Kingston Trio will high- light Senior Weedend festivities on Saturday evening, April 23, 196G, at eight o'clock P.M. in a benefit concert for the Union Col- lege Building Fund. Proceeds will go to the establishment of a Stu- dent Union Building which ·shall be erected in the ver'Y near fu- ture. Tickets for the Field House concert are priced at five doJlars per couple a·nd three dol.Ja·rs for a single admission. Tickets may be pu·rchased on or after April 4 at fraternity houses or at the Student Activities Office· in Weekend phen Dubansky, have organized an extensive advertising cam- paign both on and off campu,s with the hopes that the concert \\'ill earn substantial profits for this worthy cause. Extra Night Marijuana By Thomas Chatham The problem of marijuana has cropped up at several New York colleges, and there have been several administrative approaches to 1t. At Alfred University, where a co-ed was found with sixteen seeds. the New York Bureau of Criminal Investigation was called Other eyents h;ghlighting Sen- in. The maximum penalty under ior Weekend will be a freshman state law is fifteen years. lac-rosse game with Hamilton At NYU several students were Cl)llege and a baseball game with discovered smoking reefers in the Rorhester at two-thirty P.M. on dorms. They were expelled from Fr-lday, and a three P.M. baseball the dorms, but no other action enrounter with Williams College· was taken. The college policy as on the afternoon of the concert. that students are not under col- . ~n the formaf rebuttal,. the par- , t1c1pants re!llamed unyielding in their a:ssert:ons. Dr. Fox point- Old Gym Hall. As an additional bonus, Dean Co-chairmen of the event, Ar- Pollock agreed to an additional . nold Katz, Robert Lisk and Ste- 1 ovcmight for L'nion's fraterni- lege discipline when not on cam• pus. 13 ed. o~1t the combina~ion of nation- alistiC and commumst elements in the Viet Cong's ideolog-y. Pro- fessor Gati main:a·Ined that no Eastern Euwpean nation, if given ~ the opportuni.ty, would ever vote to retain a communist regime. Profess-or WiUison believed that the situation should he stabilized IJ by the United States; Professor Thimm concluded by reaffirming his belief that '~today China pre- sents a threat to the world.\ Success Mr. Zauderer said afterward that the debate had been \enor- 11 mously successful.\ He hoped that the IRC would be able to sponsor similar programs on other issues on world affairs in the near '·future. --------------- Phi Delt. • 0 -------- t:e.>, setting a precedent at Un- Hunter College dealt with pot by giving administration-spon- sored seminars and left the act- ual enforcement of a no-drug rule to students. One student The Kingston Trio English Contests Begin Arms Parley Two Union College students, Mark A. Levine and Mark C. Zau- derer, were chosen to attend the third annual International Arms Control Symposium in Philadel- phia. Levine, a senior history major and Zauderer, a junior majoring in political science, were chosen as interested representatives of their respective departments. The symposium, beginning on Thursday, March 31, and lasting The English Depavtment an-~------------- four days, will feature noted noun~ed for its two annual ·awards pra-i.sal. In the event of a tie in speakers on disarmament and for creative wr1ting, the Eugene e1ther competition, the prize arms control. Stl:ldents and fac- I. Yudis and the Academy of money will be divided. If, in the ulty members were chosen to at- American Poets Prizes. · · f h · d \-end from schools thr·oughout the opm10n o t e JU ges, no entries 'L All U T • t d t 1· 'bl are of prize winning quality, an Northeast. mon s u en s are e 1g1 e d The .sympos· 1 wn 1 ·s bern· g· spon- t t th · f h awar will not be made. Honor- ion. Houses which have females residing in them will not be clos- ed to male students until 2:00 A.M. Sunday morning. For three Generations • Those Who Know .. Have been recommending - HERSHEL (Continued on Page 6, Col. 6) MAURICE B. WALTER 0 en er; · e wmner 0 eac 1 sored by Bend·r'x ·Corp., the uru·- . · $100 Th d dl' ab e mention citations will be an- prize receives . . e ea ·llle nounced where aj)propriate. versity of Pennsylvania and St. \3 un,·on Graduates ··n Graubart Family'~ for both contests is April 20. Joseph's College. Mark Zauder- The Yudis prize is awarde·d for Entrants may wish to keep er is the president of the Inter- 166 JAY ST. Maurice B. Graubart & Sons imaginative prorse. This year copies of their work as entries national Rela;tions Club, taking of , he at- '* (Continued hom Pg. 1, Col. 3) marks the tenth anniversary of are not customarily returned. over from Levine who was presi- fOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY the competition. Sketches, short -------------~~d~e~n:_t..:.l~a~s:_t_:s~e=:m~e::s~t_:er~.-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ stories, or sections of longer School, himself he is a cross- member TTYff pus .. ' ... Most Eastern chapters have abolished the clause; none that ,, ~ has petitioned has been refused. works are suitable. Previous publication in the Idol is neither a handicap, nor, in itself, an ad- vantage to the writer. The judges hope, however, that the competition will stimulate new It is expected that the clause will be deleted from the national charter during the national meet- ing in August. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. writing. Entries Entries for both competitions must be typed, double-spaced, on standard typing paper (not on- ionskin). They must be enclosed unf()lded in a 9x12 envelope. The writer's name should appear on the envelope ·but not ·On the man- uscript irtself. Manuscripts should be submitted at the office of Mr. Franl{ Gado, instructor in Eng- lish. t <t Sundays 5 P.M. - 1 A.M. Entries will be screened by se- lected members of the English Department before being sent to a board of judges :for final ap- = j i& b {I ill 'a SUMMER EMPLOYMENT NEW YORK TELEPHONE CO. WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. LONG LINES DEPARTMENT OF THE As T. & T. COMPANY Thursday, Apri/14, 1966 ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS OPEN TO Juniors - Seniors - Graduate Students In Civ-il, Electrical, Management, and Mechanical Enginering. Also Mathematics and Physics. These companies are particularly interested in those _ JUNIORS; SENIORS, and GRADUATE STUDENTS from the Disciplines listed above, who upon graduation, will seriously consider careers with THESE companies. Candidates must have GOOD academic averages and must be citizens of the United States. See your Placement Director, at Wells House for your interview appointment and application form. We will consider all applicants for employment without regard to race, creed, color, or national origin. \Let's unplug the computer, boys! 1®1 L@l A lot of people believe that someday computers will do all their thinking for them. Well, a funny thing is going to happen on the way to the future: You're going to have to think harder and longer than ever. Start thinking!\ Computers can't dream up things like Picturephone service, Telstar® satellite, and some of the other advances in communications we have made. Of course, we depended on computers to solve some of the problems connected with their development. But computers need absolutely clear and thorough instructions, which means a new and tougher discipline on the human intelligence. And it will take more than a computer to create a pocket phone the size of a matchbook, let's say ... or find a practical way to lock a door or turn off an oven by remote telephone control, or to make possible some of the other things we'll have someday. It takes individuals ... perhaps you could be one .•. launching new ideas, proposing innovations and dreaming dreams. And someday, we're going to have to find a way to dial locations in space. Makes you think. @ Bell System American Telephone & Telegrapl\ and Associated Companies ·, ..

•t !f MARIJUANA ABROAD Page 5 Concordy Sports HUNGARIAN WRITER Page2 Baseball~s Predicament: Speed, Pitching, Defense Can the team keep the speed, pitching, defense, and clutch- hitting that won an N.C.A.A. championship for Union's base- hall team last year is the big question facing Coach Lawr{mce this year. Five regulars are re- turning from last yea:r's team, the leading hitter and the entire pitching staff have graduated. Sophomore Pitchers The five top pro'Spects for the Garnet pitehing staff are Bill ~iedel, Dan Nygard, Sam Dill, Charles Cresswell, and southpaw Bob Hallenbeck. Top prospecc at catcher is Bernie Mulligan, w.ho was unable to play last year. Larry McDonald, who hit .308 last year, will remain at third base, while Bob McAdams looks steady at short, after hitting .308. The attack will center around Greg Olsen, and Bill Toth who hit .328 and .321, respective1y, with a combined total of 29 R.B.I. Olsen may switch from center field to first base, while Toth will remain in left field. Also returning are Ron Cherinko and Ed Burns, both used as sub- stitutes last year. The team ha<l a combined batting average of .27G last season, with two hom- ers anrl 97 R.B.l. Twenty Out For Baseball Twenty students went out for Union's basebaH team. Coacl1 Lawrence said that prolJably no one would be cut until he had a chance to see the·m work out- doors. Praetice is currently held in the Field House. Inter-squad games will start three days after the team moves outside. The Garnet will open their sea- son at Pratt Institute, in Man- hattan, on April 16. Coach Lawrence announced th~t the two assistant manager's 1 ])Ositions on the varsity are sti11 I unfilled. St. Lawrence;· TakesiCAC Cage Crown St. La·wrence University of Canton, N. Y., won the 1965-66 Independent College Athletic Con- ference \basketball title with a perfect record in league play. Final basketball standings in the TCAC were released by Wil- ford H. Ketz, president of the :leag-ue and director of athletics at l:nion·College in Schenectady. The six-team conference com- prises small independ·ent colleges ,in a.pstate New York, competing in ::;elected sp01•ts. Alfred Univet·sity, last year's champion, was runner-up this rear with a 3-1 mark. The final standings: ICAA Season Games w L w L Stickman Travel South To Battle U.P.~ Lafayette Tennis: Netmen Seek! To Improve' '65 Record ,, . While most Union Colleg-e ·students wiU be going home for vaca- bOJ;., th~ Garnet lacrosse ,team will be going south to scrimmagE> the Umvers1ty of Pennsylvama, Lafayette, the Washington Lacros·se Club and possibly Johns Hopkins freshmen. The University of Pem1syl: vania's freshman were 8-3 last year, beating Brown, Yale, Cornell, and Harvard. La fayette, was 3-9, while J·ohns Hopkins freshman recently tied their varsity in a scrimmage. 'J1he Union Co-llege tennis team is optimistic about improving on .~ 0 their ·l'€COI'd f)f 2-8 las·t year. Four returning lettermem, and 'ream B~tter Than Last Y.ear 'good depth, shou1d make the \'tea1n good at d()ubles,\ accord- With 13 returning lettermen, nine of wl!ich are seniors, the Gar- ing to Coacili Benson. \With 1 N net varsity lacrosse team is looking for a division tl\ophy. The de- good doubles, we'll have a win- fense, headed by Honorable Mention All-Americans DeMichele and ning season,\ says Co-Captain Morgan, and aided by List and Marshall, is a year older, and has Komisarjev&ky. two ~ne goa1ies in Dickman and sophomore Auerhach. Assisting co- Team's Strongest Opponents 1 \ captam We·stby on attack, will be sophomo11es Steve Ritterbush and The team's .strongest. opponen-ts. Lee Schneider. this yea1• ·are expected to be Trin- Open Against Steve11s ity, University of V-ermont, and Th RPI, the home opener on April 1 . e va_rsity wi.ll open ag-ainst St':lvens, w·ho ~ere 10-1 last year,· 16. The fre-shman team will open . 11 HOW , b~atmg us m overtime 17-14. They w1U have a shght edge since they their season at home on April REALL' will have had more outdoor practice time than the Garnet. 15 at home, also with RPI. Thus fat· Coach Allison has planned a three-pLatoon midfield Thil'ty-seven Union Colleg€ 1 ? team. The first midiield consists of senior co-captain Mare Hurlbut. students went \JUt for tennis this sophomore Ken Milne and junior Gal'y Raden. 'TlHl second platter. year, 21 for the freshman team, features GeGrge Laporte, Wane Fuller, and Dana Jones. Tom Spenc · and 16 for the varsity. The team cer, Larry Fabian and Jim Ramich comprise the tbird midfield team. will ·be reduced to •a traveling team of 8 in both the freshman J and varsity. Mo {'Qff faukrr IJ1 ana 3R orrurr · ! ·St. Lawrence Alfred Clm·1rson Hobart 9 6 8 (} 11 4 12 3 10 2 13 1 0 1 2 3 Gulf Grant The returning lettermen are co- eaptain Ma:rlc U lllterberg, John Farnham, Chris Komisarjevsky, and Sandy Levine. Union College this week re- ceived a $1,000 unrestricted grant from the Gulf Oil Corporation. The grant was one of ~21 such awards that Gulf will present to various colleges and universities th1·ough its Aid-To-Education pro- gram. Only privately-operated institutions which derive most of their financial sappo1•t from non- tax sources are eligible for the.se unrestricted grants. This latest award brings the Marijuana • • • On A total of Gulf grants to $11,160 for Union. Last A.pril, the schooJ. Continued fr01n Page 5, Col. 6 ~h:k;~ 5 ~ By Paul Grayson Listening to a crusading Howard Cosell leaves the impression that our difficulties in Vietnam me but a diversion to take one's mind off the really pressing events of the day, like the World Series or the P.G.A. I would not go that far. Very probably the outcome in Southeast Asia is more crucial than that of the P.G.A., and perhup~ even the World Series. Nevertheless, the momentous controvet·sies which stem from the wonderful world of sports affect the happiness and well-being of hardened participan,ts and innocent by,;tanders alike. These iniquities must be exposed. Overt Prejudice I myself have been victim to a cruel, overt prejudice which has compelled me and others of my kind to conceal l1eartfelt be- liefs behmcl a facade of indifference, or, worse yet, acquiescence. I speak, of comse, o'f the brutal intolet·ance characterizing that ~lu.uderou::;, sudistic, shameless breed known as Yaukee-haters. The \'er·y 1\'0I'lL~ !ill my heart with loathing and disgust, so I will hencl'forth substitute the less approbrious term .Arnericaphobes to n·Jet· to them. These Amer·iraphobes, then, are the same ones who openly espouse the cause of the leftist Cincinnati Reds; they are the ones who stomp and squeal in the stands of Shea Stadium; they are the ones who fondly celebrate the anarchic era when \da bums'' represented the fantasy world of Bz·ooklyn. But I have nu wish to deny them their pleasures. If they choose to be Communists, adole:H!ents, or poverty idolaters, who am I to stop them? All I ask is the constitutional right to support my won team with impunity. \Hoi Polloi\ But why, Y\U indignantly inquire, am I not allowed to attend the ballpark of my choice? Why are Yankee fans, mere guiltless babes, persecuted so ruthlessly? The answer is, quite simply, that the hoi polloi know:> full well that Yankee devotees are the aristoct·ats of the sport. To sedately watch the Mick's towering home run::;, to politely applaud Whitey's command on the mound, to knowledgeably appraise the finer points of stately Elston Howard, is to have an attitude, an approach to the game which is lost to all others. But instead of admiring and earnestly tryin·g to emulate such urbanity, all the Americaphobe has done tradi- tionally is seek to suppress this noble, dignifying element. Mani- festing an unpatriotic a·version to the Yankee image of success, the Americaphobes depreccate the very qualities which made our country great. Deigning to t>xplain to them what it is to be of the l•lite dues not help either. Inevitably the Yankee fan is branded an outwst, and is forced to tune in to Phil Rizzuto and the Old Redlwad on the sly (purists, o f course, do not consider Joe Gara- giola an authentic Yankee yet). And consequently, the erstwhile pin stripe marvel~, playing before but the few hardy individuals who dm·c to bra\'C' all slights anrl de-famations of character, have seen their once magnificant skills atrophy from want of support. I hope, repugnant Yankel'-hntez·s, you are satisfied. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DARI TREET Char 2049 Van Vranken Avenue Broil Steok $1.35 Dinner Pleasant Atmosphere & Congenial Service Soft Ice Cream on Sundays Phone Orders Encouraged FR 7-4261 Time; Center Jew~lers YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME received a $5,000 grant for :fin- said: \The object wa.s not to get ancing the new-ly-oproP'osed sci- rid of the peo-ple but to get rid Theil· 1 3 0 2 10 9 8 13 RPI Union ence and engi11:eering center. of the problem.\ ·1 lit lo's \Th~ -------------....:. _____________ __:_ ____ .....::;:__.....::.=::...:::.:.:.:~.:_-_!.,.:.::..=::..!:=-::.:==------- departur Got brains? Got drive? Got imagination? Got stamina? r--------------, I C Y TO: General Electric Company I areers in Adventure s1o Lexington Ave., Rm. 801-c I New York, N.Y. 10022 at General Electric Gentlemen: I Show me what it's like to be one of I the new generation of idea men at I General Electric. Where I might work. · I What I'd do. What kind of people I'd I work with. Send me my free copy of the 20- 1 page booklet \Careers in Adventure,\ I filled with full-color photographs that show G.E.'s young rnen- and women I - at work in today's most challenging I fields; electronics. mban lighting and I transit design, aerospace and com- I puters, jet propulsion and nuclear . power and all the rest. I Name __________________ _,~PL~E.~s~e~P.~,N~r>r------------------------ I I College or University_________________________ I Address __________________________________________ __ I City ___________________ State ________ Zip____ I L-------------- .. Got a pencil? Frankly, General Electric is after the cream of See for y<lurself what you could be doing the 1966 crop of graduates. next year. Fill out the coupon for a copy of our Not just the top engineers. And not just the booklet '\Careers in Adventure.\ top scientists. But the outstanding graduates in And talk to the man from G.E. during his other fields: economics, business, law, account- next campus 'Visit. Come to General Electric, ing and the liberal arts as well. where the you.ng men are important meh. Pro.gre!:s Is Our A1osllmporlt!1hf l>rorlucf GENERAL. ELECTRIC round OJ The set, (I the thro tenth-cer The rou: to an or one sect:i the acto1 with th1 lowest a most elc which t st1·ucture size por tilda of ' '-' of the t: and the Techni the Mou been res· (I design o. the effo; Hal L: carpentr~ ing; Bill Bloomsh sler's db who has tumes; Dave Va make-up; and Micl ger. On thE peror\ 2 grams; ( box offic (I and h'OtlS II It Servin! Gont The C: performa Saturday of fhe fir Unlike ends, thi: profits w to the fu1 The K records t the I'ecor4 they haVE become c, first gold follo-wed · includi.ng \Where F. \Green bat and \Ras] The Tri as entert hangout They cho because it league, y1 calypso r after thei hooked f4 \hungry i the West Since t recognitio Year\ in 1 \Cash Bo received t

