•• \' I Founded at Union ·College 18.77 that a man all the the critics coaching hardships Union labor st pass from S'POt to an- enough time ·alone much personal life. , scouting are operations out- staff. Rave basket- • to look any rst scores -of troubled are both ath- t the other with th1:1y of- other than the coach.'' Olson Boehm Hrdlicka \ Turner Ill Williams II Vol. 95- No. 14 . ( mgr. mgr. ____ , .. I I I I I I I I VIETNAM: BRIEFING: A new kind of course- for college students that THE Union is offering as a full-time major. ' .. College And Contractors Disagree On Construction .. t ' By Robe.rt A. Fried Officials of the College and em- ployees of the contvactors ga.ve wide- ) ly varying estimates, this week, about the state of the building program and its probable completion date. I ll<. Ako Vainu, job superintendent for the Vappi Cons-truction Corporation at the site of the new dormito1·ies, said construction there was \several weeks behind schedule.\ The original target date of September 1966 was temporarily unattaina>ble, he said, be- cause of two factors: a labor shortage and the weather. He. said the contractor hoped to make up the lost time this summer. Theodore R. Mcilw.aine, Business Manager of the_ College, also said that the originally scheduled comple- tion date was late August, 1966. But it will be \at least October or maybe November\ before the work is com- pleted. He also ~said that since furni- ture and other equipment cannot feas- ibly be moved while classes are in session the buildings might not be occupie'd \until Thanksgiving vaca- tion.\ Furniture to be Stored Mr. Mcllwaine said that the labor strike last summer had seriously af- fected the construction schedule. He said that the furniture for the new buildings, which is now on order, would have to be stored in a ware- house until work was finished. \We may try \ he said, \to have the manu- facturer' hold our order until this is finished.\ Not everyone concerned with the construction program felt that the delays were so serious. Allan Ryysylainen, vice-president of the Hanson Construction Corpora- tion which is building the new Social Scie~ces and Humanities Centers, said that the work there was \right on ·schedule,\ with no delays due to labor problems or the weather. He said that the recent collapse of a temporary shelter for one building would not affect the scheduled com- pleti-on time. \The weather may hold us up a bit,\ Mr. Ryysylainen said, \but we're prepared for it.\ K. B. Watson, Clerk of the Works, who oversees the classroom construc- tion for the College, said the building of the Liberal Arts Center was \three or four days\ behind schedule. He also felt that delays caused by the weather would not seriously hinder progress. Labor Shortage Foreseen Lloyd Conde, superintendent for the Hanson Corporation, said that the constluction of the two classroom buildings was on schedule, and he (Continued on Page 5) All Rock Slate Set For Winter Blast In Three Weeks Rock and roll will be the main attraction of Winter Weekend, with a dance in the gym scheduled for Friday night, February 25, and a concert in Memorial Chapter Satur~ day night, February 26. Tickets for the Weekend will cost $7.50 a couple. Jack Ely and the Kingsmen, whose recording C>f \Louie Louie\ is one of the most requested in the area, will be the featured. entertainment for the dance, which will be open to Weekend ticket holders only. Jimmy .Soul and his band will also perform. The dance will begin at 8:30 P.M. and end at 12:30 A.M. Saturday's concert will bring rock- and-roll into Memorial Chapel follow- ing the controversy that erupted on the campus this fall. The Ron- nettes and the Drifters have been signed to appear according to Freshman Class President Paul Cos- tello. J.immy Soul's band will pro- vide the accompaniment. The concel't will begin at 8:00 P.M. and following the concert the scene will shift to the fraternities where partying wiH go on well into the night. (Continued on Pg. 5, Col. 3) FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1966 PRICE 15 CENTS College Students Face The Draft By Duncan R. Waiiace \Vhf'n Defense Secretary Robert MeNamara returned from his sixth v'sit to Vietnam, he reported that \we arc no longer losing\ and \it will be a long war;\ At the time ·Of his statement, 'U.S. troops m.mbered dose to 250 thousand. He added that this total will have to be ·stepped up to 180 thousand by 1967, and if the Vietcong responds similarly, we would need another 120 thQusand. The problem is simply where wiH they come from? The current answer is the colleges of the nation. The Selective Service ann0unced r·ec2ntly that a college drafting program sim- ilar to the one used during the Korean War will be put into effect for the next academic year. Nation-wide Test This program will provide for the !'cferment of college students by the passing of a nation-wide qualification test aml/or by clas.s stnmling; the option is the student's. The passing grade for the test will be 70% or hetter for undergTaduates and 80% or better for post grsdua>tes. Defer- 182 Frosh Motched In First Round Bids One hundred eighty-two stud- ents were matched to fraterni- ties in the first round of bid- ding Thursday. The statistics of the first round, a:;; released by the Office ·Of the Dean of :Students, are as follows: Students acce:pted on the first round: 182. Number of Rushing cards sold: 323. There will be a dormi·tory rush on Februal'y 7 and 8, from 7:00 to 9:00 P.M:. After the dorm rush, unbid freshmen will submit new preference lists and the matching committee will as- sign them to houses. Only un- bid freshmen may- submit lists. All rushees will pledge at the frateTnity .designated by their bids at 6:0.0 P.M., 'l'hursday, February 10. In 1965, 181 students were matched on the first round, and .Z3 in the second, for a total <>f 204. In 1964, th-e first round total was 193, the second round was 13, making a. total of 206. Three hundred l'Ushing cards were sold in 1965. Two hundred eighty-seven were sold in 1964. A complete report will appear next week, after th-e second rush. ment by class standing will require the freshman to be in the upper half 0f his class 1y the end of the year, the sophomore in the upper two- thirds and the junior in the upper three quarters. Whether this system will be rein- stated exactly as it was during the Korean War is not definite as yet. The Selective Service wiii disclose more details at a later date. Against Student Draft Contrcwersy now lies in the fact that college students would normally be deferred in the natio·nal interest. That is, the responsibility for the well ueing of tomorrow's nation rests upon him and his achievements; a serious depletion in the college ranks might be significant. Also, criticism comes from the lawyers, wagging fingers at the S€lective Service for using the draft as a weapon agailiSt dissenting \peace creeps\ who would now be the first to be dragged out of colleges by their manes. The J ourual of the Armed Forces, a magazine that considers itself the \spokesman of the services,\ turned a deaf ear to all attacks: \Just as the jungles of Vietnam provide sanc- tuary for tbe Viet Cong, the universi- ties of tile nation obviously are pro- viding hiding places fo1· some young- sters who seek and enjoy the best of American life but shy a:way from the resj>onsibility which citizenship en- tails.\ · Student Opinion When students at Union were asked how they felt about the new system, the general feeling was that no one was understandaLly enthusiastic about it, yet must were willing to accept it as inevitable a:nd someth.ing that innate obligation bound them to. Many realized that the United States needed increas-ed manpower, and thus were willing to accept their increased responsibility. A few students echoe{) a Princeton senior who explained to an alumnus his reasoning for appl;ying to graduate school in order to escape the draft: \Yes sir, you might say that patriot- ism has gone out of sty'e.\ Continued on Page 5, Col. 1 Weekly Sessions Tackle Problems Of Dorm Living This year's sixteen dormitory coun- ::;elors are part1ctpatmg in tne ln- :::.en!Ce Trainmg .l:'rogram to help pro- mote beLter de>rmitory atmosphere and co!Hlltlons. Lawrence Weitz, Counselor to Stu- dents and director of the, program, be- ll eves that better inter-personal rela- tionships and communications between stuaems and counselors will help the student aciueve more enthusiasm in tlle world around him; he w~ll he more m~er=tt:U m cai!ipus act1vit;1es and sllow a greater concern for the wel- fare of hts fellow student. Dean Pollock had originally en- c<>tU'aged and initiated the program. He. and the Administration realized that the domlitories w·ere not an ex- citing place to live. They sent Profes- sor Daniel Driscoll, the Faculty Resi- dent in West College and Mr. Weitz to a convention at Indiana University on, \Values and Attitudes of Today\s Students as they Affect Development of Residence Hall Progl'ams.\ There, they met with Deans, d{)rmitory proc- tOl's, and personnel workers from col· leges throughout the country. • From the conference, Mr. Weitz developed a syllabus and approach on how to conduct the seminars. The counsel.ors meet weekly and Mr. Weitz lets them choose their own topics for discussion. The sessions are relaxed and infol\lllal so that personal feeling are more easily elicited. All types of dormitorY' problems are discussed and wlutions are suggested by both the counselors and Prof. Wejtz. Bu.t he feels that the ultimate deeision on any problem should come fl'om the coun- selC>rs themselves, since they are the ones who must live wEth the Fresh- man. Be wants the collllselors to dis- cover tlle.ir O\vn inadeqwacies of super- vision. \'If a counsel1>r understands himself emoti-onally, then it is easier for him to be more effective in inter- personal communicatiolls.\ This semester's meetings will in- clude ta:pes, lectures and films on counseling. Dr. Fried, Dt·. Care>ll and visiting psychologists will also address the grou:p. Phi Epsilon Pi, D. Phi Recei'Ve National A wards The Indiana convention had revealed a most startling statistic. Out of 168 hours in a week, the average student allocates his time in the following manne1·: 15 hours in e:lass, 40 to 50 hours stu~ying, 56 hours sleeping, 15 hom·s eating, and 38 to- 42 hours in wo~k, ac-tivities, or personal ch.ores. Th1s means that he spends appl'oxi- mately 110 hours, or 65 percent of his time in the d-orrnitor;y. (Continued on Page 2) Penn Warren To Visit Union For Two Days Phi Epsilon Pi and Delta Phi Fra- ternities of Union have received Na- tionf\1 awards for (lutstanding aca- demic achievement. Delta Phi was the t•ecipient of the Sigma Chi Foundation Graduation Goal Award; Phi Epsilon Pi 1·eceived the Summa Cum Laude award, given by the National Int~rfraternity Con- ference. The Summa Cum Laude award is given to a fraternity chapter whose index is at least thirty percent above the undergraduate men's averag~ for that particular college or university. For the 1964-65 sch<>ol. Phi Ep's aver- age index was 3.004 or 37.04% above the college average of -2.418. The closest fraternity to this was Phi Sigma Kappa witJ1 an index of 2.564, 9.23rk above the men's average. Phi Ep Undefeated The National IntErfraternity Con- ference has been m.aldng this award for four years. Tile first ye2.r no house at Union received it; since then Phi Ep has won it every year. For the 1962-63 schD'ol year the fratern- ity's average index was 31.45% above th~ school average and in 1963-64 the figure rose to 35.91 o/~. The sig- nificance of the a-ward is apiJuent when one notes that for 1!163~64 school years only twelve fratel'Uities out of 3,127 chapter~s won the awaTd. The Sigma Chi Founda;tion Gradu- ation A ward goes to the fraternity or sorority chapter that has the highest percentage of its original freshman class graduating that year from the institution. Th~ award was established in 1963 ROBERT HOFFMAN, President of Phi Ep, accepting the Summa Cum Laude scholarship award. a~nd was first given in 1964. That year Phi Gama Delta was given the award, with elev,en graduating from a freshman total of fifteen. In 1965 •seven member.s of Phi Gama Delta graduated. This was 100 percent of their original freshman class and thus the hous~ received tile Sigma Chi award. By Roy Fruiterman Robert Penn. Warren a.uthor of All the King's Men, ,vni speak at a convocation in Memoral Chapel Tues- day, Feb. 9 at 11:30 A.M. Mr. Wal'l'en is scheciul-ed to arrive ?n camp::'s about noon M@.day. He ~s tentatively. s?heduled to be involved m some act1v1ty with the English Department in the aiternoon and will be dining ~t Delta 9hi that evening. T1Je follow:mg mormng, he will par- ticipate in an English 1b class at 9:30, in which there will probably be a group discussion open to any stud- ents wishing to sit in on the class. At 11 :30 he will speak on \The Novelist as a Poet\ in the chapel. He will hold a press confe1·ence a;t 1:45, after haviilg lunch in the West Col- lege private dining room. An inform- al discussion with ·students and fac- ulty will be held, tmtatively sched- uled to take place in the music room of the Shaff~r Library, Famous as Novelist Mr. Warren is kno-wn for his work in three main fields of literary ac- tivity: creative writing, literary criti- cism and education. He is most famous today as a novel- ist, being the author of several of the mos-t powerful and significant Am- erican novels of recent years. H1s Continued on Page 5 Col. 2 ' I I :I I' I' I . I II I I ,.

. R .. . ecoctous eJntn.-scences·· Of A Distraught HOmo S~pien By L. 0. Sanneh It seem·s funny-very funny-that I should be engaged in this old busines·s of reminiscence at a time when the nece~~ary hindsight is hardly in clear focus. But I enjoy funny things because I find life so much fun. Anything that i·s tortured out of ::hape so that it loses aU fun escapes me. The point is that life-and everything that goes to make it up-is for me an infin·ite number of folds, stacked up in layer after layer of deep fun. This is the oddest thing in life, that I should cele- brate its birth by laughing out my gills and by sticking my heavy legs in the high ceiling when all around me is death, decay, and dirt. I am told many things by the learned, that my ancestors were monkeys who growled when food was scarce and twitrhed their tails beca-use they were in heat. I am told that reality is what the New York Times staff reporters heave up in mounds of hourly toil. I am told that man is an economic animal •vho will sink ships in the Bos- porus to secure for his country a wann harbor. I am told man is a problem-solving animal and that he went to the United Nations to smelt ore and crack skulls. I am told that the idea of God was a blinding fume that rose by slow degrees from the tail to the head. It will evapo1~at!:l eventually. I am told that the greatest disgra(:e that has happened to the world is the Christian church. I am told everything, from the dim dawn of the pri- mates and the bogus beyond, the faint trail of the dinosam's, to the delusion of Christ. Well, I don't ~pend tuppenre on one of these I-have-been-tolds. Evolutionary Dogs I'rofessors of I're-Historic History can scamper about with one piece of a scapula from Reunion, a thigh bone from Acapulco, and a fingernail from Java. They can piece their bones together and ('onstruet a human being-begging leave from the kimlcrga1 ten who make wholes out of plastercinc. It will be a highly ingenious piece of the imagin- ation, which, until fleshed, should scare the devil out of us by that gl'im smile that never fades. But I am content to ignore them provided these profess-ors do not stick their bones into me. Yet they cannot rest content till they have stuck every paw, nail and sharp end into me, provoking me beyond measure. These learned doctors are really as dangerou·s with their bones as dogs. But the difference between them and dog·s is that dogs do not affect to p1·ove anything from their bones. I am told man is one thing, and then anot])~r,. and thPn a third, a fourth, a fifth, and so on •. There at·e no proprietary rights here. One can· carve out of this many-faceted man and he will rorrert it by going to pot. I am told that the Church is the biggest scandal that has happened to our world, and christians are a nuisance. The' fact is this is historically sound. That the Church i~ a disgral'e to our world is very true. Herod could think of nothing 111o1·e sc:.Hldalous, neither could Pilate nor Caiaphas. It is a disgrace to us no less. The Chureh ha:; not changed at aH in this re:>pl·ct. Morality Judges What is mo1·e disg1·aceful than my parents-in-. law catrhing me red-handed, \in the very act\? What is mMe disgraceful than the High ·Priest finding the rwirst entertaining women to pork and winP in the Holy of Hol.ieil '? What is more shock- ing than a carpenter':.: son-known as such by thP J'ecalcitrant->wolding the traditional guardians of morality because they are not rigid pnough, and defying them herau;;p they ure not lax-large- mough? Wl1at is more staggering .than Christ being born in the rellar and the furious thump- thudding of the Roman military thundering over CASANOVA SLUDGE the Child's sunken head? Swept into that refuse dump the King of Glory took refuge from the apgry world. And that world at His birth pro- VIded both the dang-er and the security. Small wonder then that the Church has not ceased to be reproach to o11r world-our desires our ambitions, our behaviour, in fact our totai nature. And precisely because it is this our un- reasona~le critics denounce us vehemently or scom us so bttterly. It could hardly be otherwise. \Tf I had r:ot come and spoken to them they '1\'ould not luwe sm, but now they have no excuse for theit· ~in .... If I had not done among them the works whtch no one else did they would not have sin; but now they have 'seen and hated both me and my Father.\ .The world has never been at ease with the Gospel. Christ was born in the cave christianity in thE> catacombs. ' Absurdities? Thus, if the critic says, like Tom Paine that this is all so absurd, I .will eye him fro~1. the ground and say, 'Yes, more so than you suspect.' :rhe mother o±: Jes.us thought somebody was play- Ing an expensive Joke on her when she found the sepulchre empty; otherwise it was so absurd. St. Peter !=ilmost wrecked his legs to go and see, be- ca11se It would be so .absurd. But it has happened, and that leaves us so defenseless, indeed. And that is why I have called this article Pre- cocicms Reminiscences, because although \life\ happened so long ago, my own life happened so recently in time and space. I said at the begin- ning I am celebrating its birth, and that is irre- vocably true. Creation may be caught in the throes of death, decay, and dirt, but I \\ill sing- the jubilee anthem. When I see every one so grim and heavy with an iron determination never to cough it up, I will remember the story of the Australian Aborigned. A huge toad, in flaming anger, swallowed up all the waters of the w<n•ld and sat refu'Sing to budge, '''ith his eyes shrouded in his serious vigil. All the animals-including man-passed by him, one time in silent protest and another in solemn procession, pleading for mercy. Not a stir Uncle Toad made. Finally an eel arrived, gathered its strength around the tail. and balanced with a desperate delicacy. Uncle Toad could not resi'st the hilarious sig-ht, and burst out in hearty laughter, spilling his treasuTe. Dor1ns • • • (Continued from Pg. 1, Col. 5) To alter this situation, Professor Weitz sug- gests two ptYssible alternatives., He would like to see the student participate in more activities outside the dormitory. But he also encourages more diverse activities within the donn to give it a more relaxed atmosphere. He feels there is need ·of a professional Student Personnel Worker to work with the Counseling Center, Health De- partment, and administration \to investigate mo1·e unique and additional ideas to make the dorm a more exciting place to lh·e. Exciting stmuli, such as cultural activities, and academic pursuits, plus a more comfoztable and natural environment for healthier co-ed socialization will assist an<i permit t~e student. to grow and ac~ualize his full po.ten- ttal as a umquely human bemg. It is obvious for a school of Union's rharacte1· that a full doxm·i· tory program is a vita:! concern and needs im- mediate attention.\ CAsAtJovA DLUDGE DERR }{!(. SLU[)G£ ;. I ef\JC..Lose ,; l,ooo As A RE.TAtNeR. PoA !YOUR .SCRUtces I WRC'JT You i'o• LOC.AT€ ~(\)D A€TURN A PRIVffTE EYE PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS The UP JOHN COMPANY Feb. 14th on campus will in- terview senior students for positions in pharmaceutical marketing. Science not es- sential. For further informa- tion contact the placement bureau. D I R f\I)OND TI-)Ffr . Wf'IS. .STOLEN fROM n£. IS ~OGI'JTe CA~LO ooo crry To ~EGtN C.OOJ<- ING F'O \ Sail! Yes., Borrold, there is a sqil at the CAMPUS BOOKSTORE Winter Jackets Reduced 20% ALBANY ARMORY MON., FEB. 21 AT 8 P.M. Tickets 4.50 • 4.. - 3.50- 3. Sale Van Curler Music Schenect~dy Fridqy, f.ebr.u.!;lry 4, 1966 . -. . . BaiGuano: ' ' : ;<llll\: •. \ '~·· '!,\ The . ' ..... ~ .. +:;., '::_;,' Batman Comifb·C One thing is certain about ABC's new Batman seri-al: it is not as good as it could or should be' but t.hat i's not to say that it is entirely devoid of merit. Where the makers .of the program have failed is in relying totallr on the co1nincss that we hav€ come to kncrw as \camp.\ The trouble is that th.E nostalgic sod of feeling we dcrh·e from certain comic books, various motion p:ctures of the 30's a.nd 40's, and so on is a complex one; too comple::x a feeling to be affected by the mere use of the bad in any art form for its own sake. Pop culture~ it seems to me, is a sterile thing, an out- look on. life that has failed because it has taken an easy way out. It has not examined its ma- terials with the intelligence sufficient to create any meaningful art. What is it, then, that is so appealirtg in the culture of the depres·sion and post-dellression periods for the individual of to- day? Why has the comic book figure of Batman been re-vived (although, of course, it still exists in a watel:'ed-down form) on the most popular med- ium of television? Era of Faith Despite the hardships of the 30's and 40's, American culture at that time cherished an ob- stinate fa.ith in its own possibilities; it was a; society ·which at le:.t.;t ~eems in reruspel't b have~ been coznmitted to an id~al way uf life, a dream •. It was a time of mass hero-\\'tlt'ship; and although this ma:y not be agn~eable to ~ome, I helie\'e that the event;:; in Nazi Get·many during that same period ·were nothing but a different manifesta- By Stewart and Granger iJE C.AN CA'T'GH 'THE 2. o'CLOC:.K ('(.AN€ FoR M~Ni£ CARGo AND '8€ IH€RE To-Nt~Hr/ CA~L. THe AIR- /.,.Ifvc (\.)OW BUT' i:JUST' RE:5€~VE. CNe $ERr! • .. _,, -. ·a.y Paul Sherwin .... ·!' tion of a similar need that was encountered in an American civilization whose roots forbade ·the growth of Germany's disease. The things that we like to call \camp\ about the American cul- ture of that era are such things as the Bogart- figme (the most invincible American who be- lieves in 'hhnself and his .system) or the comedy of the Marx Brothers which, despite its S:ati:re and absurdity, is wound up with an implidt faith in that nebulous American dream. The Original Anyone who has read Bob Kane's original Bat- man magazines knows that his was a world d'ark- ened by the long shadows of weird and menacing villians of the Dick Tracy type. Whereas there was never any real terror in Superman's adven- tures, there was in Batman's simply because he was not impregnable. When hurt, Batman bled. Though a good deal was made of his extraordin- ary. stamina, much of it, as it turns out, was for pumshment-another innovation for superheroes: there was some reason to believe he has a glass jaw. Today's comic book Batman thrives in a world a lot less scary than his predecessor's, and' a lot les's interesting. The vitality ·Of the myth has gone, and our fantasies are no longer roused. Teen Show The highly publicized ABC Batman is a good deal more funny than today's comic book series but is considerably less engaging than the orig~ ina!. Although it might have been worse program- ming so far as the ratings are concerned I would have liked to have seen the ·producers of the show aim a little higher in the audience they sought to attract. As it is, the series is geared towards a teenage audience. It is sponsored by an acne- preventing product, Robin looks like a frustrated rock 'n roll singer, and Batman has lost his mus- cle's. There are some good gags however. Per- haps the funniest is the labeling of the poles that lead down to the Bat-cave \Bruce\ and \Dick.'' Much like the James Bond movies, the Batman program is conceived in primary colors. We know when we are supposed to laugh, and that can get pretty tiresome after a while. The comedy is just too obvious, the special effects too much like an oYer-laden Christmas tree. The Bat-mobile of the program, with its telephone, parachute and radar may be an admirable vehicle; but, personally, j prefer the Hudson Hornet of the 1943 motion picture serials. Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET 2Jiamon~ • ...... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for· Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaie.r. . .. . : Arnold Fisher '50 .................................... \.''''~ ,. Life with Dear The, Scott's L1 Francoise ( one is temr as the m Her writing 1 of Picass0 hot as a man. Tl , ·.vrit1ng, but Lake has don· , coherent narr: versation, lon of which the t entow Cocteau, Ma•h pear as rea-l li but with a w ·et·sation. Pic and elusive c however, is t . lived with Pic. panion and lc ' nim, stands o note and atter * So much h1 recent years t brother, Theo in with other ever 'Dear 1 ' sour~e. Irvin I gratulated fot , sentihg them ~ From such an diffuse 1 producec narrative. It neither a ·sti ments no1· a book is the m cen's strugglE N.Y. Nol \ ... Th~ raptE kills himsel beheaded; aJ old sex-kitt rleath on the t t father. Rich it in the beg tury, amid l protest, but become one masterpieces f! Mo: When the era House f lome In 19J Yorkers foJ ment to re: repertoire. formed it !a the capacit~ and applauc mrtain-calls lights came of the appla ed: without the most ex this review. at the Met. Birgit Nil entire perf01 cess .Salom step-daughte Let the lc Down to A unique NIC_, Sine Lar~

1966 an the gs that cui- Bogart- be- comedy and in Bat- dark- enacing there adven- he bled. for a glass in a r's, and e myth a good series, orig- W()Uld show to a acne- mus- Per- that know get is just like an the radar, I motion @. en a, ~ I l:~ ' ~\ I Review: Three Nevv Biographies . \ By Robin Bell Life with Picasso, Gilot and Lake. Signet Dear Theo, Vincent van Gogh. Grove Scott's Last Expedition, R. F Scott. Beacon Press LIFE Francoise Gilot's book should be read, not-- as one is tempted to do-as a biography o:f Picasso, ·out as the autobiography ·Of the author her'self. Her writing shows great insight into the moods of Picasso both as a painter and public figure and as a man. This is not Sunday Paper 'revelation' -.vrWng, but thoughtful, studied work. Carlton Lake has done an excellent job of constructing a coherent narrative out of the old snatches of con- versation, longer talks and volumes of notes out of which the book grew. We are introduced to the 'artistic entourage of the volati'le Picasso. Sartre, Cocteau, Ma,kaux and Matisse among ·others ap- pear as real live people, without an aura of myth, but with a wealth of fascinating ideas and con- l .ve1·sation. Picasso himself emerges as a complex and elusive character. Most interesting of all, however, is the fact that Francoise Gi'lot, who . lived with Picasso for ten years as secretary, com- panion and lover, am! who had two children by ' nim, stands out as a personality well worthy of note and attention in her own right. * * * * * THEO • So much has been written about Van ·Gogh in recent years that this edition of his letters to hi's brother, Theo, has tended to have been lumped in with other biographical a.nd critical work. How- evet·, 'Dear Theo' has its value as an original 0 source. Irving and Jean Stone are to be con- gratulated for their editing of the letters and pre- senting them in the form ·of an autobiogra·phy. From such an immense undertaking with complex diffuse material to deal with, the editors ave produced a very coherent and very detailed narrative. It is to their credit that the bcmk is neither a ·stilted coUecion of impet·sonal docu- ments no1· a trite story. The latter part of the book is the most fascinating in that it shows Von- cen's struggle against insanity. Terribly aware N.Y. Notes: of his .predicament,. he fought .to remain in con- trol of his sensibilities, until at last permaaent de- rangement overtook him. These letters to his brother, the only person in whom he felt he could confide and who could sympathize with him, form a most sensitive and remavkable personal chron- icles. * * * EX:PED/TION The journals of Captain R. F. Scott on his last expedition to Antarctica in 1912 are distinguished in their comprehensiveness, their detai·l and their randour. The writing is factual and dignified but never stodgy, and i's punctuated with fine wit and humour. Fot· more than fifty years now ,Scott has been almost the prototype of a hero. His spirit of ad- venture, his determination, faith arid courage command admiration and respect. There are few events which can compare with the heroism, trag- edy and pathos of the last few days of the ex- pedition. Scott kept up his jouma,ls to the very end, until he and his companions died of exhau's- t~on, starvation and exposture in their pathetically tmy tents in the middle of the Antarctic wilder- ness. The last paragraphs which he wrote convey the real character of the man: \We took risks, we knew we took them; things have come out against us. and therefore we have no cause for complaint, but bow to the will of Prov,idence, determined still to do our best to the la'st. But if we have been will to give our lives to this enterprise, which is for the honour of our country, I a.ppeal to our countrymen to see that those who depend on us are properly eared for. \Had we lived, I should have had a tale to tell of the hardihood, endul'ance and courage of my rompan:ons which would have stirred the heart of every Englishman. These rough notes and dead boclies must tell the tale, but surely, surely, a great rich country like ours will see that those who are dependent on us are properly provided for.\ In this age when the heroic ideal has long since been supplanted by the I'm-all-l\ight-Jack sneer, the life of R. F. Scott is exhilarating and refresh- ing. Nilsson Dontinates ~alotne' By Robert Stolzberg 3 Faclllty Column: Negotiate With Viet Gong: Defeat But Not Disaster~ By Prof. Bruce Clemens South Vietnamese soldiers carry wounded comrade. Course, a war's like every real good deal, hard to get started. But when it's on the road, it's a pisser-everybody's scared off peace-like a crapshootet· who keeps fading to cover his loss. - Brecht, \Mother Courage\ The United States has a moral obligation to defend democracy, enhance ind~vidual dignity, and arrange for the self-determimj.tion of peoples. The stabilization of South Vietnam by the com- munists would mean the end of western influence in Southeast Asia, and that would threaten our .survival. We can't back out without losing our dignity, our honor, and our international c'!'ed!- hility. For all these reasons, we; are told, 1t l's necessary to spend a lot ·of money, kill and half kill a lot of people, and wreck what is left of South Vietnam's economy. ports that Pentagon planners believe, we can \pacify\ the country in six to eight years, seem's doubtful. That we can almost depopulate it in that time, and win the lasting hatl·ed of those who survive our help, seems certain. Moral - Religious Tradition Are we willing to bleed and he bled into the middle of the next decade 'I This question gets close to the center of our delemma. Most of us helong in the same moral-religious tradition in which Lyndon Johnson belongs, the tradition which states that an earnest and determined man can win whatever worthy prize he seeks. One-more- good-try, we feel, can win glory for the pure in heart. To keep that attitude we have to assume that the prize we seek is simple and good, while our enemies are complicated and had. In Viet- nam that myth isn't just 'stupid, it is also cruel and dangerous. \ .. Louis Melancon, t-!ew York, N. Y. Offered separately, the reasons persuade. Broad- cast in chorus by expPrts and men of power, and coupled with the implication that dissent i's sabo- tagE', they are overwhelming. We want to trust our government, we want to be optimistic, and we don't 1 ike to look too closely at the bloody accide.nts of history for fear we'll see our own faces there. So we accept the simplifications and hope for the best, whatever the people who know decide the best is. Our Vietnam myth turns the Viet Gong into television villians when in fact they are a mixed group of the kidnapped, the rrcruited, the patiotic, the indoctrinated, and the professional. It turns Southeast Asia into a neatly bounded place in which every enemy gets his orders from Peking and every c<Juntry is the same as every other country. They make the appalling assumption that the only way to save the good guys in Thai- land, Cambodia, and Laos from Peking's bad guys is by pulverizing the countryside, the econ- omy, and the population of Viet Nam, thus demon- strating what friendship with the United States can mean. l \The Dance of the Seven Yeils\ with Birgit Nilsson, center Economic Good Th~ raptain of the guar4s kills himself; the prophet IS beheaded; and the sixteen year old sex-kitten is crushed to rleath on the orders of her step- t father. Richard Strauss wrote it in the beginning of this cen- tury, amid howls of indignant protest, but it has survived to become one of the accepted masterpieces of opera. Most Exciting When the Metropolitan Op- era House first premiered Sa- lome ln 1918, indignant New Yorkers forced th~ manage- ment to remove it from the repertoire. When they per- formed it last Friday evening, the capacity crowd applauded and applauded, requiring two eurtain-calls after the house ' lights came on. And every bit of the applause was well-eant- ed: without a doubt this was the most exciting performance this reviewer has ever seen at the Met. Birgit Nilsson dominated the entire performance as the prin- cess Salome, the seductive step-daughter of Herod. She falls in love with Jochanaan (John the Baptist, sung by Walter Cassel), who denounces her as a \daughter of adult- ery.'' The captain of the guards (George Shirley), in- fatuated by her beauty, but repelled by her, kills himself, and soon after Herod (Karl Liebl) appears and demands that Salome dance. She agrees and performs the famous Dance of the Seven Veils, but. only after extracting a promise of gaining amything she wants from him. Her request: the head of J ochanaan. Even he is disgusted, and as she kisses the severed head, murmuring \I have kissed your mouth, Jo- hanaan. Perhaps it is the taste of love.\ Herod leaves, com- manding his soldiers to \Kill that woman.\ Strauss, following in the tra- dition of Wagner, wrote an (}pera of awe-inspiring dimen- sions. The music, filled (in the composer's own words) with \exotic harmonies, which sparkled like taffeta particu- larly in the strange cadences,\ overpowered the few, insignifi- cant flaws (mainly in the some- what wooden acting) in the performance. Great Performance Mtss Nilsson was magnifi- cent. Her voice had an icy strength which highlighted the opera. Her voice captured the essence of the part, and her entire performance was one of the most glittering of the sea- son. Karl Liebl was a dirty- old-Herod, leering at Salome, grasping at her veils. T110ugh not the Herod Strauss envis- ioned (\he should endeavor ... to preserve his dignity and composure . . . in imitation of the greater Caesar in Rome\) he was effective. George Shir- ley fully gained the sense of the pathetic and love-stricken captain. Let me conclude hy mention- ing that this opera will be re- peated tomorri)>W evening and Tuesday evening at 8:00. Any- one even vaguely interested in opera should attend if possi- ble. None of us likes thi's war, even though it does some of as good. It provides jobs, it justifies capital investment, and it creates profits and dividends. Though the money spent on it could be tumed to more humane uses, it probably would:U:'t he, since no nation can afford as much to impre>ve life a'S it can to fight. But ironically, · and never has a war been richer in ironies than this one~ \Vhat our economy can afford and thrive on South Vietnam's cannot. President Johnson has not been able to control the prices of rice, cooking oil, and other diet staples in Saigon. They have more than doubled in the last year. Ameri- can financed flood control, drainage, and land im- proveme.nt projects along the Mekong river can- not get and keep labor in a market in whi'Ch Amedca.n military projects offer higher wages. The black market, as Dean Rusk sugge'sted at the end of last week, is booming. The social fabric is in an advanced state of rot. Real Estate With those moneys for which we cannot ac- count we al'e renting some highly vulnerable real estate-Da Nang and Saigon, for example-and time. In that rented time a lot of shocking and tragic and messy things are happening to people who only want to be allowed to have theiz· private lives back. In it the land area controlled by the VietCong grow'S steadily larger. The spirit which bold American action was said to have inspired has already faded, if it ever existed anywhere ex- cept in South Vietnamese bureaucracy. Vulnel'able to attack as it is, we can apparent- ly continue to hold what we have as long as we want to. \Whether as The New York Times re- Unbelief President Johnson, who earnestly and regularly repeats these childish myths to us, apparently doesn't believe them. If he took them seriously, we would be locked onto the rails which lead to war with China. Surely there are men around him who feel that war with China will come eventuaily, alld that now is the best time for it. And they are right, of course. If we must fight, our best chance of surviving the contest is to take it on now. But the dilemmas of history are never solved, except in the shortest of short runs, by incinerat- ing them. Our best course, and the most painful to our dignity, is to hold the enclaves we have and negotiate with the National Liberation Front, the political office of the Viet Cong. We're going to have to do it eventually, anyway, because it is too late to create another South Vietnam out of the present chaos. We will also have to provide a safe place, somewhere, for those South Viet- namese official's to whom we have private com- mitments. That is to say, we will have to accept defeat because it is in the long run, in our best interests to do so. This means that informed people 'should now let the President and our Representatives know, through letters, visits, and group resolutions, that we are willing to see beyond myths-to the reali- ties of our present situation, that we prefer de- feat t<r disaster. Let the lager freely flow. I 135 ERIE BOULEVARD ~·::i~:::~:, 1 : ·~~:' wifu old European Atmosphere I Bo u lev a rd Bowl RITZ RESTAURANT NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 32 AMF BOWLING LANES ..,.... Open 24 Hours DCiily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS; STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week

4 <tlnnrnr Publtshed Frldaye durtng tbe school year by the Student Body of Union CollegE>, Schenectady, N. Y. Na.· tiona! Advertising Representative· National Advertising Service, Inc., ColleG\e Publishers Representative. 420 ~fadison Ave .. N. Y. C. E<lllortal UHice. Old Gym. Union Culles::e. .Publicatlon Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company. G02 Broad way. Entered In the Sche· nectacly Post Office as Second Clasl :llall ~laHer. Subscription 15o a ropy: $1 u year dellvet·E'a anywhere in the United States. SENIOit BOARD' BAilHY !-:E\Vl\IA.l\ 'n; ... UG-9969 ................................ Elditor-in·Chief JEI•'FitEY SPECTOR '6G... . . .. ::77-4:1\~ Business .Manag.-r ~1.\ltK K.\ ~~~ \\'l'TZ 'u7 ............ ~Ianal:'ing Editor ~IOHTY K.\~rz.\;x 'H7 ....... :-iews Editor ~~u~~;E~rf:J .,····••••·• :: ? :-::-:~--~~~~~§.~ ~ HE:-;nY FERGl'!:-W::--1 •;,u ................................................. Faculty Advisor ,JnaoR BOAIUJ .J~~~· 1 o11 .\1.tr. 1 n ·1;..;, . ..\s~istant :\f;\WS Editor ~tPplwn u 1 ang-Pr '1i1i .. _ ~·· ............... Contt;ibuting Editor !Jonald ~ehwat·t~ '67 .................................. Assistant Literary Editor Robert Rosonthol '6 7 ................................................................. Subscription Manager Joseph ~hartt•r · t.i ~ . -· . . .•.. . ...... X ational Advertlslng Manager Steven _-\t·koff '67 .................................................................. Circulation Manager Kenneth Bousquet '63 ..................................................................... Photography Editor The Draft A few months ago Vietnam was something to read about in the newspapers, discuss in a political science class or possibly carry a sign and be angr-y a~out .at a ~emon­ stration. Boys being called to the ·front line_:; m ~s1a ;.vere as remote as the war itself, and the select 1ntelllgensia of the universities reclined confidently in their ivory towers, unmindful of military service, and secure in their student status. Then the ivory tower began to sway, tun:1:bling some collegians from their perches. Jokes about bemg sent to Vietnam began to mellow, and now they aren't funny any more. Last week the Selective Service told stlrdents that their muscle power against the Viet Gong will .supersede the importance of their educations, in the \nation~l inter- t.:::il... Th~..: .\::;ian w.u has ceased to be- an absctractm'!l, ar;d by next September col~ege students wi~ be competmg m national tests, not for JObs or scholarships, but for an ex- tension of their lease on life. This is not the first time that young men have been asked to (>'ive up their studies, their jobs, their homes and their famllies so that they may patriotically serve a g~:w·er~­ ment that somehow finds itself overcome by the ep1dem1c insanity <lf war. But this is the first time in at least a century that the cry of \my country right or wrong:\ has not succeeded in smothering debate over the morality of the war or in numbin&' our reactio?s to the fri&'htful cruel~y and suffering to whtch the Umted States 1s a part m Vietnam. Few American students who are informed and aware are capable of saying. that t?ey a~e ~nequivo.cably willing to die in defense of mdefimte prmcrples which even our allies hesitate to condone. It has become painfully evident that their principles will lose whatever influence th.ey do have when the enemy is confronted rn a bloody Jungle somewhere in Asia. Army policy :has consistently de- manded clear and provable religious claims for all consci- entious objectors. A man cannot simply say \I don't want to kill,\ and be exempted from the draft. In the same vein, however the o·o.vemment is saying to its youth \We want you to kill a;d we want you to die,\ and is offering_ the most shallow justification for this greatest human sacrifice. If we are sent, we must go. lf '-'Ve must m~rder ~nd be murdered, we will. But if the war continues to mtens1fy, and we are taken out of school, rationality and humanity will cease to be a factor in our lives. 'There will be nothing ennobling in our deaths. The Bare Wails There is a building on the south side of campus that has the Rathskellar in its cellar and the Geology lab on the top floor. The building also houses something called Old Chapel. It seems that Old Chapel is used for things like art classes and Glee Club rehearsals. Onoe, a long time ago, it was an exhibition hall for paintings and sculp- ture, but not any more. The bulletin board that hangs on the outside wall has hung empty for over a year now, without a sign annormc- ing a single show. The walls of Nott Memorial, Union's other exhibit area, have been bare as well. Stndents and local artists have not stopped producing, and costs are no more prohibitive than two years ago when substantial and exciting shows were frequently installed on campus. Last year, though, the Art Department here ran out of gas. Professor Bradbury was on sabbatical, and the adminis- tration busied itself by alternately dismissing and :hiring the rest of the art staff. Nothing was planned, and living art went into a coma. Last semester Professor Eckert arrived, and he now constitutes the great bulk of Union's department. He is overworked, but has found time to schedule some modest exhibitions for the remainder of this year. There is a glim- mer of hope for an overdue Renaissance, but only a faint glimmer. Mo-re manpower is requit-ed to supervise art shows and better exl:ibit areas are sorely needed. In gen- eral, the administration has failed to demonstrate the needed concern for its biggest problem child, the Art De- partment, and for this reason more than any other, art at Union is devoid of the life and vigor vital to its effective teaching. )i ' Fridoy, Febru~ry 4, 1:966 Friday, Febru · Letters To The Editor I• D·O:U~ Regal Richmond To the Editor: In the 1ast issue of the \Idol Mr. Tulloss criticized Union's dormitory sys- tem with an editorial entitled \Unhappi- ness.\ Mr. Tulloss was not entirely fair and grossly overlooked many strong points of Richmond House; strong points ex- emplified by Richmond's bathrooms. Mr. Tulloss is repulsed by the bulging pipes floating overhead, but it is Picasso- plumbing. Furthermore, the most im- portant assets of Richmond lie in its toilets. This cannot be emphasized enough. Unio.n has kept up its fine old \Standard\ and supplied the independ- ent student with the best of facilities. I could fill pages with similar advan- tages possessed by the independent. Mr. Tulloss, however, dredges complaints up . from the bowels of \Unhappiness.\ If Richmond is as bad as Mr. Tulloss says, then the only solid solution would be to fill the entire building with con- crete from 1,000 redi-mix trucks at 7:00 A.M.. when St. Anthony's beH agoniz- ingly tolls. Thus, the already incarcer- ated independents would be permanently entombed. We would have another mem- orial, a concrete shrine on campus-the tomb of the unknown independent. Independent facilities must be good in order to form a more perfect Union man. Slightly out of prune, Charles N unzio (Union made) Jazz Jargon To the Editor: I was disturbed to read Tony Bucca's interpretation of jazz as it appeared in the last issue. As a jazz-lover and- p('rformrr with gnocl mu~iral hack- ground, I feel qualified to point out that syncopated jazz does not mean, as Mr. Bucca stated \simply .that it is in fourths time.\ Syncopation and time signature are independent variables in jazz. Fur- thermore, jazz is not always in four- fourths time: jazz waltzes are gaining popularity and countless other time sig- natures have been explored by such men as Brubeck and Mingus. Mr. Bucca's conception .of jazz syncopation appears erroneous: never will stressing the first and third beats of a four-four measurs produce syncopation in jazz or any other form. In fact, more often than not, the DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked ltalion Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 1 A.M. YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 COLLEGE RING REPRESENTATIVE will be in the s·tress in jazz occurs off the beat in highly irregular rhythmic patterns which often defy notati011. I strongly suggest that Mr. Bucca listen to more jazz before attempting to make further generalizations about thi~ musical form. Jeff Lob '6H Cramped Creativity To the Editor: Dr. Mat-tin has delivered the coup de grace to the already tradition riddlert image of the \Union Man.\ His cllarac- terization of Union students as uncrea- tive and unimaginative is astounding for tV\:o reasons. One because he freely ad- mits to such a unhappy situation and second, and most important, because it is almost true. The word 'almost' has disturbing imp1ications. I .don't want to incur the wrath of the Board of Trus- tees so I w.ill refrain from mentioning names; but I know of a few individuals Who have somehow slipped through. There are, on this campus, at this very minute, people who may be sitting in a dark corner of the Rathekellet·, or in some other dark corner, or who may be sitting right next to you, who are think- ing. They are the unfortunates, the frus- trated, the underground. Two hundred yeat•s of dealing with these wretched souls has perfected the Union method. They wi11 t•emain hopelessly dispersed throughout the \dutiful\ student body. It is incomprehensible to me that a school, founded so soon after the revo- lutionary birth of this country, could with such consistency, produce such med~ iocrity. It is furthermore incredible that this condition can be so easily accepted. problem. I believe the problem is inher- This must be confronted as a serious enl in the allllutle this all<l ot-il<:l\ col- leges haNe taken concerning their role. The attitude is analogus to the view that college is an American pastime; a sport. It'·s their field and therefore they make the rules. You can play if you want, after a nominal fee and examination, but you must l'emember all the time, it's their ball. A college should not however, make the z·ules so restrictive that only the \dutiful\ can play thereby leaving the creative to -either suppress his cre- ativity or get out. These, to be sure, are no altematives. The imagh1ative player is therefore .sacrificed if the pur- pose of the game is mediocrity, To my chagrin and to that of the Union 'underground' Dr. Martin .presup- poses just such an end. Dr. Martin once represented a change, but if he embarks 1 on a new administration with such an opinion of the student body he puts him- self back into line with his pedantic t•redecessoJ·s. No flame will be lit at ·1 Union. The uncreative, th·e unimagina-tive, the \[lutiful\; literally the dead who walk 1. will prevail. Dr. Martin will l'ema.in the keeper, not of a place of learning, but .of a 1:omb on the North side of Schenec- . BetV\i Supren to dispel s1 Union. He wa generation war arnon~ China, an.d In his spe~ pressions,\ J sumed the po man travel tady. Kenneth Arthur Kobland 1 68 Poll Prevails •\. !J.S.R.R. In the United were similar in the t\\•() '.) To the E<litor: Random, Hell! The Concordy poll on Viet Nam is • beginning to have an absurd long-evity. The poll, j.f it was the one in which I entered my opinion, was ·open to the worst sort of ballot box stuJfing. What • is far worse, ridiculous capital is being made of the results by the FR people. Who do they think they are proudly white washing? It's getting all out of proportion. Local radio stations are now joined by the Alumni Bulletin in broadcasting that Union students endorse President John- ' son's policies five-to-one. As if war were like a cigal'ette .brand. Now, when Mot·se, Fullbright, Hays, and others of our Congressional leaders are taldng a .'1 stand against Johnson's policies, it is time to think of being proud of the ethical stand taken by members of the academic commu.nity, Public Relations ·~ Whitewash often fades and discolors terribly. Rodham E. 'f'ulloss coming very ;1cted that for us to it state as it where go·ve .el].ds into a! Fe~ Justice Do ericans toda ,:deas about homeland. only three p! people are ! ~he Commun to understan tude toward recall theb: . .This may ace fear of be:in: The belief ion lacks sc irom the t1 ···dbutions in The justice \brainwashir <'£\rning Rus .1re now do China. D()es J Mr. Doug ~oviet Unio the world t IH' ('('(1nOlY'Iir that the. u.~ Summer School ~: holocaust as but compa1·e er players\ \chess play4 A number of announcements have been received regarding summer sch01~l op- portunities in Britain and on the con- -» tinettt. Limited scholarshi11 assistance is available for a DUmber of tltese sc.hools. Stude11ts interested should see Dean Allen as soon as possible as <leadline for application is, for the most p11.rt, in March, and scholarship ap}>lieatioas are due by March 1st. international With an ~1,200 a yea sia ranks States in re .. very far ah' oped nation called the : tential pear• • ··'!Jointed out ing in a while Cornrr ing to be as • Kurric UNION COLLEGE SENIORS • Any mem community concerniug which goes may ad<lres! fordiensis. wood will subsequent: tn.zy be left ti viti es Otfic• ARE ,, I:NVITED TO ATTEND EAST I p t': 860 (. ;t WI AN p ~ ~ IBM • 8 I I PH 57~ Scher INFORMATION HOUR FOUl' CAMPUS BOOKSTORE Monday, February 7, 1966, - 8:00 P.M. L. G. m C.ARI all day Friday, February 11 STOP BY AND HAVE A TALK WITH HIM. HALE HOUSE STUDENT LOUNGE ,, BADGES LE STATIOt ClUI MED, y fraf'e1 729 So Syraet

4, 1:966 Friday, February 4,~1966 5 D·onglas Warns Of War Bet\'reen Three Powers ! Temporary Scitellite Sags Students Face Draft o • I• of the presup- once embarks 1 such an him- pedantic he lit at ·1 Supreme Court Justice William. 0. Douglas attempted to dis.pel some American \myths\ concerninO' the Soviet Union. o . He. warned that the greatest problem for the corning generabo:n would be to find legal means of avoiding nuclear war amoNg the three supreme world powers: Russia China, and the United States. ' a..tive, the walk , the but In his speech on \Russian Im- ~ - -- - - - -- pressions,\ Justice Douglas as- sumed the point of view of a lay- TITar~nn man travelling through the f f' • I fO:... • • • Schenec- and '68 ,~ ;J.S.R.R: fn general, he felt that the Umterl States and Russia were similar and that the people in the !\!:() counhies were be- Continued ft·om Page 1, Col. 5 coming very much alike. He •• ; 1 cted that it is quite di-:fficalt Pulitzer prize winning All The for us to imagine the socialist King's Men, a novel used as part t ·t · t · R · of Union's English curriculum sta -e as t· ex Is s m ussia, is the study of the r-t'se ~ncl f'al.l' where g0·wrnm~n t control ex- \' Nam is '» which I .el)ds into all areas. of an Am€rican political dema- Fear Invasion gogue, Willie Stark In addition, he -wrote At Heaven's Gate, a to the What • is being Justice Douglas said that Am- novel of the South, and an his- ericans today have many false t · 1 1 w 1 'deas ahou.t Russians and their ~~C:. nove or d Enough and homeland. He mentioned that people. proudly only three percent of the Russian people are actually members of •ll ~he Comm-unist Party. Further, to understand the Russian atti- tude toward arma~ent, we must recall theiT history of invasions. join€d by that John- ~ if war when of taldng a .11 it is .This may account fol' their strong fear of be:ing attacked today. The belief that the Soviet Un- ion lacks scientific skill is far from the truth since her con- ··I·ibutions in· this field are great. The justice felt that we may be of the of the Relations ·~ discolors \brainwashing\ ourselves con- <'<\rning Russian strength as we .. 1re now doing with respect to China. Ooes Not Want War Mr. Douglas stated that the !!> .Soviet Union seel<s to conquer the world through her ideology rn- pcnnolnir '\\C'nnons. fTC' fPlt that the. U.S.R.R. ·fears a nuclear ~: holocaust 3S much as Americans, but compa1-ed Americans to \pok- er player-s\ and Russians to \chess players\ in the field of been op- the con- ., international diplomacy. With a.n average income of ~1,200 a year for her people, Rus- sia ranks behind the United States in relative prosperity, but sc.hools. Dean deadline pa.rt, in are .. very far ahead of otlter undevel- oped nations. Justice Douglas called the Soviet Union a \po- tential peacemaker\ in Asia and • ··'JiOinted out that she was evolv- ' ing in a conse1·vative manner while Communist China is com- ing to be as a revolutionary force. 9 • ·' 'J Kurricular Kueries Any members of the college community who have questions concerniJ.tg the new curriculum which goes into effect next fall may address their queries to Con• fordiensis. Dean Theodore Lock- wood will provide answers in subsequent issues. Questions tn.zy be left in the Student Ac- tivities Office in Old Gym Hall. EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA :, 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN B-AI>GES - R~NGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS ClUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHI~S Write or Call fraternity .Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse. N. Y. 13210 Eric Bentley, a famous Anglo- American critic and .stage direc- tor, said Warren's works \have to be taken as ·serious moral doc- uments. The constant theme of them, according to Bentley, is ''self-know ledge.\ Criticism We!l-Knowu In addition, Warren's poetry and literary criticism are chu- acterized by a sense of moral ser- iousness anrl depth. Among his g1·eat poetry is the long and dra- m.atic poem \Brothers to Drag- on.\ Also, his critical writings on \The Ancie-nt Mariner\ and \Pure and Impur€ Poetry\ are widely read. Along with the Pulitzer, War- ren has won many literary pTizes ;Lilll r~now:ships. The mutivn pic- ture of \All the King's Men\ was named the best film of 1949 by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Born on April 24, 1905, Robert Penn Warren found hi-s home t:own of Tod-d County, Ky., to be a good backgr()und for his novel, Night Rider. Mr. Warren draws his themes for his novels from historical ineidents in the S.outh. He said that he cannot under- stand why some w1·iters have dif- ficulty in finding new subje~ts; in Ken,tucky .courthouses alone in old records enough material for a whole generation of writers is buried. JIM ANTHONY (J.E.) of the '60 Bethlehem •~Loop\ Cou.rse is engaged in operations research in the Industrial Engineering Department ()f the nation's largest steel plant. He's typical of young men on the move at Bethlehem SteeL Seniors and graduate students in engineering and non-technical curricula will soon be interviewed for the 1966 Bethlehem Loop Course. We offer splendid career opportunities in steel plant operations, research, sales, :rruning, accounting, and other activities. For detailed information, pick up a copy of our booklet, \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course,\ at your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Pl'ogram BETHLEHEM s T E E L pETH,Eii£M ST 1 EL ~- (Continued from Pg. 1, Col. 5) l'or not a student is a co11:scientious _,,, ! undergraduate. Yet this is the ,_. ,,_, . _ I But there are a good many un-1 way it always has h~en, ~nd the - · ,. · ''' --_,~.~-_,,. answered questions a.nd corn- Prl r01s~ecdts dfor changmg tt look ·< ; plaints that many students in im m ee : . ·But in spite of all f ,,_, colleges all over the country the worrytng and controversy, , ·:,~~~\ t,J~ ~~~~· d~~~ret~eesp~~f:~~n °:ch~~~; ':I~~~tes~~~d~~t~:es:;~~~t!:n iti~I'O~~~ \!P ~ ~ is one ?f the foremost. The otherwise seem. During the · __ ,, ,; f:. . lst;mdardiZed tests. s~oule co:t:· Korean War thi:s system was us- ·~.,::5 1 ~ .,.; . trtbute to the alleviatJ01T of th1s ' . difficulty, but then some ask if l'd and few, 1f an:y, students at ., it isn't absurd to base so much Union wel'e dr8fted because of • : 1 011 one test, considering the fact the tests. (The ]{a rean War peak . : that soi?'le people have a 'ckllack\ was 80.000 a m on:th, as opposed 1 fo.r talo~g IBM t~sts and others . · . . . . . . I will be JUSt suffermg frotn. hattie to our p1esent quota of 40,000). nerves. Students who were drafted were Draft Board Responsibility Other students have been con- cern3d over the stipulatiO>n that = the local draft hoard, not the l'O lege, should determine whether i# tal<en after they \l\eJ:e dropped hy the college for academic reasons. A good student at Union should have no tl'ouble with the draft, if he is working for a degree and not making a mara than out of it. BLIZZARD'S WRATH: High wimls eollaJ)Sed the temporary protei!· tion for the north satellite buildi.n~s-dnr-ing last week's storm_ for three Generations . (Continue<! from Page 1) 1 . pointed out that one building, (}ll weekend the south side of the library, ha.d one .story of exterior masoillry completed. • • • Cott ti11.11ed fvorn Page 1, Col. 2 Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE 8. WALTER Maurice ,fl. Graobart & Sons A Union CoUege press release, dated June 1, 1965, said: \The Hanson Corp. is expected to com- plete the buildings by fall of 1966.\ Another release, dated July 21, 1965, said: \Despite the area. construction strike, the col- lege hopes that both sets of buildings will be ready for occu- puncy in the fall of 1966, Pl'esi- clent Martin said.\ '1'icl<ets may be bought in the do Tlll!.S from freslunen who will be a~s:g:-ned to each floor or section. One freshman pledge from each k~temity will be designated as saJes; representative for that fra- terni-ty. Tickets will also be nv-aiLai>le at the Student Activi- 11 3 Union Gra(/11ates in GraubCJri l'amiiy'' 1o6 JAY ST. ttes Office. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOO[) JEWELRY Toronado will get you if you don't watch out! Don't look now. S.ut a keen machine called Toronado has design.s on you. Out to get you with front~-Vh.eel drive that puts the traction where the action is! Ex:tra stretch~out room for six. (Flat floc:>t·s, you know.) Full-view side win.dows. Draft-free v-entilation. Front and rear seat belts, :b.ac 1:-ups and a raft of othe1· standard safety etceteras. Like we say, Tof()na.d<> has designs on Y<Jll.Or is it the other way around! LOOK TO OLDSFOR THE NEW! JiiP Olff' Pfl{)J/F TORDfiADG• NIHETY~EICHT • DELTA 18 • DYNAMIC 8B • JETSToUI&a \ClJTLASS• F-8!: • VI$Tfi·CRUIS£Ft • StAIUllta: • 4-4·2 ~ OLDSMOBILE •.• in a Rocket .Action Ca1'! GREAl nNE TO QO WHERE TltE ACnOH IS ••• SEE YOUR LOC~L AVT'110FUZED OLDS~Q(JILE QUALITY DEALER: TODAVl I

BATMAN Page2 Concordy Sports BASKETBALL--VS. HARPUR 8:00 P .. M·~ FIELD lOUSE Unbeatable Frosh Cagers, Try For Tenth Victory ECAC Honors Baseball Mentor . The Uni?n CoHege freshman basketball team, undefeated in nme games, Is off to the best start of any frosh cage club in the College's history. Only two prcYious ft·osh teams have gqne through a seaso11: with unblemished records. The 193'1-~2 team was 5-0 and the 1949- 50 ·squad finished 8-0. The '31-':32 club, however, played four games against high sehoul varsities (Gloversville, Cohoes, Johnstown and Albany High) and only one with another college freshman tea~ - R.P.I. The 1963-64 team, which included current Union \'arsity players Tom erbt>li,, Greg Olson, Ron Giancola and Bill B.oehm won its fil'st six games before losing, and finished the season with a 10-2 rec-ord. The ten \'irtol'ies are a Union freshman al·l-time high and with six games remaining. this year's team seems certain to top the record. . Coach Chris Schmid, who is assured of his fourth straight -win- nmg season, has seen hi~ fre:;hman force~ win six games by six points or less, Neal'ly every conest has been a heart-stopper, but . i.he young Dutchmen have always come up with \the big 'Clutch play.\ After winning their first two games with relatively little . trouble (71--60 over Norwich and 58-49 oyer Williams). The Garnet squeaked past Hamilton, 56-55 in their firs~ ulcer-maker. Middlebury fell, 77-71 but Union led throughout the game. M.I.T. was tougher, and the 61-58 Union victory came hard. Then came unbeaten and high-scoring Trinity. Union trailed throughout the entire game, by· as much as 13 points, before rallying miraculously for an 80-78 win .. R.P.I. was ne:xt and the Engince1•s lost their first of the year, 63-57. Alfred (84-68) and Rochester (58-55) were victims eight and :nine on a recent weste1·n trip. The Union Frosh is basically nn \Iron mnn\ team, with the five starters 'having accounted for all but 4fi of thP ll08 points 'score-d. All five are averaging double figmes. Lawrence Named Coach Of Year By Walt :Ba::.ter . Art Lawrence, Union C0lle_ge hasebaH coach, has been named District II Coach of the ¥Ear. District II covers the colleges in the Middle Atlantic States t·egions. The American Association of Baseball Coaches awarded Lawrence a commern\ or-ative plaque. Lawrence led the Dutchmen to t:he Atlantic Coast champion. ship laflt season by w-inning the NCAA. Atlantic Regional Base- ball Tournament at Yankee Stadium. The team ended the season with a 15·2 record, best in the 'school's history. Commenting on the award, La-wrence expressed his grati- tude to the coaches who selected :h..im for the ·honor. He a-lso praised the players, \the fellows who s:hould sare in the award.\ Good overall speed, the excellen.t pitching of Bn>wn and Crookes, good defense and timely hitting were cited as major factors in the team's success. Lawrence also noted that the abiHty of the team to take advantage of the opposition's misakes was he de- ciding facot· in a couple of last yea:r's close ball games. A professor of physical educa.til>n at Union since 1962, Law· renee has been var'sity baseball coach. at Union since 1940. He joined. the Union faculty in 19311 a..s football line coach under Elliott Hatfield. Lawrence became director of intramural sports in 1935 and has held that post ever since. ln 1:941, he was named head coach, and guided the team until HJ43, when he entered the Navy as a lieutenant for a three year tour. He also coached varsity hockey from 1939 to 1943 and ag:fai:n in :194'7-48 when the sport was revived for one year. In addition to his other duties, he is now line coach under football coach George Fleod and is a resident faculty dormitory C · R · E\ h' advisor . . aptam em ',rr mger of Herkimer is the leading scorer with Lawrence is married and the father of a son, Paul, a senior ., ' (, •I a 14.8 average. The 5-11% guard plays a tenacious defense, and is very quick, scoring often on one-on-one situations. Eichinger directs 1 __ a_t _T_u_f_\t_s_V_n_h_·e__·s_it_y_ 1 _ _.... _________ ~-----------------------------''' the attar!< and possesses an accurate jump shot from outside. His ·- one-game high of :n points led the rome-back win at Trinitr , . Cliff Feldman of Woodmere, scoring 13.8 points per game, is the tallest starter at 6-4. He has bone chips in his angle, however, and faces probable surp;ery after the season. Cliff has a feather-soft touch from the corners and key, and is vet·y strong off the boards. His best effort was 22 points at Middlebury. Joe James, who led the frt>shman football team in scoring as a 1-unning bark, is hitting at a 1!3.4 pace on the hardwoods. The n-2 jumping-paek from Ea:-:t Orang·e, N. J. consistantly out-reboWJdi! man several inches taller, and tallies most of his points from under- neath, where he is nearly unstoppable. He has been in double-figures in 8 of the 9 games. Warren Mumford, shortest of the \Iron men\ is 5-10, has the best shot from outside, where hP teams with Eichinger to form a fast, good-shooting back court. \Van·en, who is ·averaging 11.0 points a contest, leads in foul line accuracy with 75.8rr conve1·siuns fmm the strip£>. :YI umford hails from Cornwall. Atheletic Scholarships Are Shunned By Union Art Show To Open 1 of Painting and SculJ}ture at Tri- 1 este and in the Exhibtion of Art at Ab Urbe Orbi. Most recently By Mike Epstein I Mr. Vitiello received a gold., . go out on da·te, what to. eat,. a11:d , . .. , medal for a painting at the In- , when to stud~·. At Umon, 1t 1s A gr:Jup of fourteen pamtmgs ternationale exhibition held in ~-\thletic s.choiarships do not' the student's decision to partici- 'by Onofrio Vitiello, rontempor- Kaples in December. ~x 1 .\t at ~mon C~llege, accord-' pate in athletics, and the college ary Itanan painter, will be shown m~ ~ 0 Assistant Director of Ad- doe.s :not make special academic in the Art Gallery in Nott Mem- missio!ls, Dr. Joseph .M~ras, and arrangeme11ts f()r athletes. At a orial on the Union College Cam- the DJrccto;· of AdmiSSions, Mr. \fo<Jtball factory,\ a student may pus frorp February 7 to 25. The Jonathan I earson III. I lose .his athletic scholarship if exhibition is comprised of still and \athletic factories:• In many Union, a ·student who has receiv- Six of the paintings on exhibi- tion are from the collection of Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Eisen- stadt of Schenectady. Mr. Eisen- · stadt is Professor of Mechanical'· Engineering at Union College. Mr. Mar-as pointed out some hP d0-€s not go out for football, life and landscape compositions of the difl'erences between Union 1 11 1\ e1·en if he breaks a leg. _ At done in oil. other co.leges, the athletic de- ed a scholarship, which may be Mr. Vitiello currently lives in Jim Wil~on, a hu·;;;tler \Yho g-ets many tap-in shots, :;tands G-2% partmenl exercises more influ- partl:r due to his athletic prowess, Ch·idale del Friuli where he anrl i~ :wrrag-ing lO.H. He missed one game with a sprained ankle, en~e on ~tudent admissions than may lose his award if he does teaches art at the Instituto Mag- marking th~ only. time the. quintet has been \invaded\ by a different at Union. Although Union ad- not \continue to demonstrate the istrali. The artist, a graduate starter. Wilson IS a Sayville native with a good short-range jump mission officials work closely ~ame }lersC>nal qualities that were of the Instituto Statale d'Arte shot. 1 with the coaches, the first re- a basis fo1· rewarding his orig- at Noples, has had his work in- Th<>se l'nion frosh form an exciting, ne\'er-give-up team which qu.irem~nt fo: entrance rema~ns inal sci:ol:arship.\ according to eluded in numerous exhibitions has raptured the fancy of the Union students. On February 4 , they academ1c achievement.. Athletics the , Un.1on Colle8'e Catalo~ue, throughout Italy. He has re- will host the Siena frosh. That !!,'a me starts at 6:15, and is fol!C>we-d ~sually. pl.ay as TI?u.ch Importance Sun1la:~ly, ~ s~udent who ga1~ed ceived top awards for his pa-int- by the ,·arsity eontest. Ill adnusswns policies as do such a scholarship m the expectation ings at the National Exhibition Also on exhibition during Feb- ruary are a group of figure draw:· ings and collages done by Union College students during the fall semester. ,, Freshman Statistics RPcord: D-0. Stati~tirs for first Sl'VE'n games: l\nion 71, Nondrh 60 Cnion 58, Williams 49 L'nion 5o, Hamilton 55 L'nion 77, :\1idd1Pbury 71 :\\ame G Cliff Feldman 7 Rein Eichinger ...... 7 Joe James ................ 7 Warren Mumford .. 7 Jim Wilson . li Others Union Totals Opp. Totals 7 7 FG 44 178 169 t:nion o1, M.I.T. 58 t·nion 80, Trinity 78 r·nion G~. R.P.I. 57 enion 84, Alfred 68 l\nion 58, Rochester 55 Frf'e Throws :\lade l !l :l!l 19 2;~ 1 !l 9 110 90 Att. 22 50 40 30 28 24 194 166 Pet. 59.7 66.0 47.5 76.7 46.4 56.7 54.2 Total · Pts. 101 101 93 75 59 37 466 428 MAMA BIANCHIS AMERICAN and ITALIAN FOOD COOKED TO ORDER Tuesdays and Thursdays Special HOMEMADE SPAGHETTI and MEATBALLS $1.00 1135 Barrett Street other extracutTicular activities of his n1a.intaining a relatively as music, scientific experimenta- high index:, may also lose his t:un, elcctiv~ office, 01· some of :;chola.I·ship if he cards a 1.1. l the othet· school or community Union coaches do, of course affuirs. . Union usually ~ttempts 1 ecruit by visiting high school to 1:errmt. athletes hy f1~st. con- athletes. They almost invaria-1 tac~mg htgh school pt·mcipals, h'y~ ] 1 owel'er, check first to see \rh!le coaches at other schools whether the studPnt has the ac- de.al direc~ly and ilnmediately 11 demi c qualificl-:1tions to enter wtth the h1gh school coaches. Union- Mr. Pearson said that Mr. Pearson stated that at Union will then try to entice the some state universities and other student with high academic · •·athletic factories\ the athletes standards, not with money. \What : live in athletic dormitories and we are after,\ Mr. Pearson con- ! have much of their lives managed t!nued, ••is a well-rounded stud- Ave. by the athletic depar-tment. The ent bod;}·, not a well-rounded 1<1.4 athletes at·e told when they can student.•• 14.4 13.3 10.7 9.8 66.6 61.1 +if'f'V¥'f'f'f'T¥f't'TY'PiTT'ft'TVf'f'f'fVf ft'fVf'fYf¥Tffffit'iff DEWITT'S Cafeteria and TaJJ Room Fine Food and Legal 13everages 110. 120 JAY srRm ., .................... , .. , .. , ..... ,,.,6,.,, ..•••. CLEAN CLOTHES ·LAST LONG-ER 2 or More S H I R T S ..•• 22¢ ea. Sport JACKETS & LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRIC1 T R 0 U S E -~ S ••• 49¢ ea. Dark Room Supplies -Jewelry- Gifts- Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. -Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVEINLJE- FR 4-5193 1957 FOSTER AVENUE Just Around the Corner from Mc.lt!nYk Natio.nal Bank The Art Gallery is open to the public on weekdays until 5 P.M. and on S:.tturday until noon. DAVE'S SQUIRE SHOP DOLLAR DAYS ALL WINTER Suits Sport Coats Loden Coats Suedes Sheepskin Lined Coats Sweaters Pants Top Coats DAVE'S §quire ~f1op ~ 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. \til 9 •I I) MISS Vol. 95- By a 14- passed a rE noon appr• College C_o1 The F\ac1 tive body, faculty mer sider the , posa1. The cha1 the faculty 17 for fUJ . ' faculty enc thert be V< body. In appro, cil made 1\•ording an that claru \academic m this are.~ ing to ac: 1natters wl :;tundards l:l !!' of the c-oU Ed Cl.arl Student Co stitu tiona! was \pleas _ received\ a chance C>f 1 ch·anges. Clark sa now g:) ba( and IFC changes. H py with th~ and has he · ~ held in Ap1 Clark fel1 is \needed Jlt\ove Unio1 voice in ea1 S.C. Rul~ , The Stu( ·committee · of Union's fery Ratne1 cil announc The Com tc> draft pr> sented to t vi-ew. It i 'will be takE ester to be The adm that it is VI rule change pus does n< m-ent. Thi: true next~ . ., torie'S are now under ca:mpus, wi system. E.~ wit! have i The initi expected to 1'he admini; first step i1 · cstudents w that the r< the lines o:l The Cour Co1ltin

PUR at Tri- of Art recently a gold·1 the In- held in I on exhibi- of nd Eisen- Eisen-, Feb- draw:· by Union the fall pen to the til 5 P.M. noon. p -3061 ,, •I I) Vol. 95 -No. 15 Peace Corps Will Recruit Here Next Week By Robert A. Fried The Peace Corps will be recruiting Union students on campus next week. The Corps represe.ntative will be Miss Nancy Holland, :who will visit classes February 15-18. Miss HGlland will also he available at a special Peace Corps Booth in Schaffer Library, from 3:00-5:00, and 7:30-9:30 P.M. She will visit classes in economics, political science, engi- neering, history, and sociology. Mis~ Holland was born in Quincy, Massachusetts, and received her B.A. from ·wells College in 1963. She was ,assigned by the Peace Corps to M- ·ghanis.tan, where she taught English in the public school system. First Year in Kabul She spent her first year in Kabul, the eapital of Afghanistan, and her second in Kundas, a town near the Russian border. Besides teaching Engl'ish during her second year, she helped establish several girls' clubs. Peace Corps representatives have visited the Union camp]ls every year since 1961, when the Corps began. Dean of Students 0. Edward Pol- lock, the Peaee Corps Hai.son officer, estimated that 20 Union students have joined the Corps since 1961. Miss Holland will also have lunch and dinner at severa1 fraternities in an effort to meet with a<s many stud- ents as possible. Peace Corps Pla(:ement Test The Peace Cot·ps Placement Test will be given tomorrow, February 12, at 9:00 A.M. at the U_S. Post Office in Schenectady. Those interested in taking the test shouild arrive early in order to fill out an application form. Once ridiculed as \Kennedy's Kiddie Corps,\ the Peace Corp.s has become the most widely copied organization of its kind in the world. Thirty Euro- pean, Latin American, Asian, and African nations have created inter- national or national voluntary agen- cies modeled after the Peace Corps. In addition, the VISTA Program, part of P!·esident Johnson's War on Pov- et•ty, has been advertised as \the do- mestic Peace Corps.\ About 10,200 volunteers are now at work in 46 undeveloped nations, and requests from 2() additional countries have been temporarily turned down because the demand for volunteers exceeds the supply. Founcled at Union College 1877 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1966 The impact of the Corps upon the emerging nations of the non1-Western world may be seen by a single fact: in six African nations, more than one-half of all high school teachers with college degrees are Corpsmen. In Nigeria, for example, one out of every three students, o.r more than 50,000, are taught by Peaee Corps volunteers. In Malawi, the work of fewer than 200 Corpsmen has enabled the government to triple secondary school enrollment from 2,500 to 7,600. As of January 1, 1966, more than 18,000 persons had received Peace Corps training and more than 6,0()0 had completed their two-year service requirement. It is estimated that this number will reach 50,000 in 1970 and 200,000 by 198(). PRICE 15 CENTS Faculty Council Clears Charter; Keeps Full Academic Control By Joe Maim By a 14-1 vote, the Faculty Council passed a resolution Wednesday after- noon approving the proposect All- College Council Charter. The F-aculty Council. a representa- tive body, also suggested that the faculty members~who must next con- sider the charter-approve the IH'O- posal. The charter will bt> forwarded to the faculty, who will meet F-ebruary 17 for further discus:siou. If the . faculty endorses the charter, it \'\'ill thert be voted only by the stud~nt body. In approving the ~ha.rler, the cou~­ cil made some mmor changes m \VOrding and included an amendment that clarifies facul.ty control of \academic affairs.\ Faculty control rn this a.re.a was explained as extend- ing to academic aff·airs and oth~r matters which affect .j;h-e academrc :;tandards and educational atmosphere . of the c-ollege. ~ Ed CLark, '66, a member of the Student Council Committee on Con- stitutional Revi.sion, reported that he was \pleased that the charter was received\ and felt there was a good - chance C>f ratification with no major ch·anges. · Clark said that the charter must no1v g':l back to the Stud~nt Council and IFC · for approval of recent changes. He stated that he was hap- PY with the charter's progress so far and has hopes that elections can be ~ held in April. Clark felt that the new government is \needed -on ca~mpus\; it will \im- rt•ove Union by giv,i~g student~ more voice in campus affairs. and w1ll con- S.C. Will Assess Rules Revision , The Student Council ~vill for~. a ·romrnittee to study p()oSSlble rev1s1on of Union's social reg:ulations, Jef- fery Ratner, President of the Coun- cil announced this week. The Committee's purpose will be tC> draft proposals which will be pre- sented to the administration for t·e- vi-ew. It is hoped that SC>me steps 'will be taken during the Spring sem- ester to begin altering the rules. The administration has indieat_ed that it is willing to implement soctal rule changes, conceding that this cam- pus does n(}t ~joy an ideal a~range­ m-ent. This w1ll become particularly true next year when the new dorml· tC>rie·s are completed. The dorms, now under constructio11 on the lC>~er ca:mpus, will operate under a suite system. E.ach group of four students witt have its own living room. ' The initiative for the revision is expected to come from the students. 1'he administration has not taken the first step in the hope that ~nberested · 'Cstudents will offer suggeshons, and tnat the result will b-e more along tile lines of what the students want. The Council Committee will accept Con.tinued on Page li, Col. 1 tribute to student interest and par- ticipation.'' Clark emphasized that the new plan will increase communieations between members of the college community. The All-College Cotmcil will be an eleven-member .body with six student members and five members from the faculty and administration. The C<>uncil will have a veto over the Student C-ouncil, IFC, and Faculty Council in matters \not in the aca- demic sphere.\ The Presi,dent of the C<>llege ca.n, however, veto dedsions (}f the All-College Council. The Council will also have the power to \recommend legislation to other L'ollege bodies\ and will be able to \Teview and initiate appr~priate ac- tion on matters that affect the gen- eral college community in the area of student affairs.\ In addition, the Council discussed d-epartmental honors programs and d.ecided on no major changes. The g-roup postponed dis·cussio•n on the college policy of withdrawals on the the description of the \D\ grade. The Poet Writes Because He 'Likes It,' Warren Says By Robert A. Fried Poetry is \a way of trying to find ()Ut your own insides,\ a,ccording to R<>bert Penn Warren. The poet, novelist, cribic, and es- sayist spoke on \The Novelist as Poet\ at a convocation Tuesday in Memorial Chapel. \I don't knC>w why anybody gets hooked with writing poetry, but that's what happens,\ Warren said. \There's one hig 'why': you like it ... That's the only good reason, you know.\ lie said that \all babies like poe- try\ because they like the \busines.s of making sounds. The next step,\ he said, \is writing a sonnet.\ \Fiddling\ B·ehind all great men, Warren said, there is an \aptitude for the medium\ in which they work. If a man does not like \fiddling with the medium,\ Warren advised, he should stay away from it. He sa.id that this \fiddling\ \V'as part of the pleasure of writing poetry. \We aren't really geared to the wodd we live in,\ he said, because ROEERT PENN WARREN we are not ''perfectly capable\ of re- sponding to an occasion for some time. \It may be a profound event, bat the ernoUons just aren't there.\ The arts, including poetry, give us \a perfect occasion to respond per- fectly.\ Poets and the readers of poetry are really looking for this perfect occasion amid many false ones, he aaid. Search of the Artist This seat'Ch of the artist, W alTen said, provides a \guide to the re- sponse\ of the audience. \There is always a kind of cC>ncealed chorus in any art work,\ he said, which, like the chol'U:s of dassical Greek drama, helps the audience to f~llo;yw tht} ac- ti~n and ideas being &Zt forth. Under Sixty Percent Of Freshman Class Pledge Fraternities Two hundred eight students, from a Freshman class of 366, have been 1n.atched to fraternHies by an I.F.C. committee. This is 58.4 per cent of the class. Last year 204 students, or 60 per cent, were matched after two rounds of bidding. This is the first time in recent years in which rthe percen- tage has dropped below 60 per cent. Increase in Ineligibles Forty-five students, 12.6 p-er cent of the class, were declared ineligible to pledge because of academic diffi- culties. This is in strong contrast to the 1966 rush, in whicr 28 students, 8-2 per cent, were declared ineligible. Of the 356 frosh, 323 brought rush- ing cards, making a total of $1,615. hast year 300 freshmen purchased cards. One hundred eighty-two freshmen \Vere matched to houses during the first round of ·bidding F-ebruary 3. This is one less .than last year; in W64, 193 frosh received bids on the fil•st round. Continued on Page 5 Col. 1 The Lovin' Spoonfuls will highlight Friday evening of winter weekend Lo'Vin, Spoonful Fills Out Winter Weekend Concert The Lovin' Spoonful, a rock and roll group, has been added to the Winter Weekend Concert scheduled for Memorial Chapel Saturday night, February 26. They joi:n the Drifters and the Ronnettes. Friday night, February 25, Union students and their dates \'iii dance t(} the music of Jack Ely and the Kingsmen, .and Jimmy Soul, in Aiumni Gym. The d~nce will begin at 8:30 P.M. and the Concert, 8:00 P.M. Week- end tickets are on sale for $7.50 from freshman representatives in all dorms and fraternities, and from the Student Activities Office. The Lovin' Spoonful is currently running high on the record surveys with \You Didn't Have to be so Nice.\ Their previous recording, \Do You Believe in Magic?\ was also a huge success and catapulted them to national fame. The four members of the Lovin' Spoonful have varied backgrounds rang- ing from a guitar maker's apprentice to one who \lived in a laundromat for seven months,\ J•ohn ~ebasthm, the lead singer, plays guitar, harmonica and autoharp. He has wntten many of the songs that the group performs in- cluding \Do You Believe in Magic?\ The group has been described as part of the \New Sound,\ a combination of city blues, folk music and rock and roll. They aH met in Greenwich Village where they held a rather auspicious start at the Night Owl cafe. There the owner told them, \I heard it all and dese guys don't make it.\ There they retreated to the basement of the Alber Hotel to pvactice for two months. They retumed to thB Night Owl and were immediately hired. Their fame spread and they are now turning out hit records. The Drifters, who will also be performing at Winter Weekend, had a more n-ormal background. Unlike the Lovin' Spoonful, whose instrumentals are extremely important, the Drifters allow the voices to dominate. The Drifters have been recording since 1953 and their music has survived many fads. The current members of the group are Johnny Moore, who was the lead singer for such hits as \Under the Boardwalk,\ and \Saturday Night at the Movies,\ Charles Thomas, Gene Pearson, and Johnny Terry. The Drifters \unique sound\ was first heard in \There Goes My Ba:by '' one of their biggest hits. \Save The Last Dance For Me,\ \On Broadway;\ and \When 1\lly Little Girl Is Smiling\ were other highlights in their career. They are a highly polished, professional group and, the veterans of many 'shows. A further report will appear next week concerning The Ronnettes, Jack Ely and The Kingsmen,. and Jimmy Soul.

2 Gal~xy Players: Two Plays Tuesday By l\Iichael Klimpl The Galaxy Players of Schenectady will pro- duce two one net plays at Union College, Febm- ary 15-19. Sam MorrC'!l wi11 direct the Players in Christo- pher Fry's A Phoenix Too Frequent, and N. F. Simpson's A Hesounding Tinkle. Each play has three actors. Sandi Gruberg, Jinz Lindenauet· and Stuart Wooster will perform in A Phoenix Too Frequent. Those acting in Simp:;un':; pby are Charles LuSacco, Ann Hast· ings, and Louise Heimniller. A Phoenix Too Frequent, is based on The Saty· ricon of Petroniu·s At·bitet·. It concerns a lady in Ephesus \l'ho goes into her husb~·nd's tomb to join him in Hades. A young ~oldwr ent~rs the tomb and eventuallv he falls m love wtth the widow. The play is a comedy IITitten in poetic form. Chl'istophet· Fr~·. ll'hose most famous wm·k is \The Lady's Not For Burning/' is a modern English playwright who features c<nneuies writ- ten in poetry. A Resounding Tingle is a play- of the Theater of the Absurd. It satrizes lo11ret' 1niddle class Ruburbanites. Like all of his plays, it is highly intellectu·al entertainment. His ,pJa.y-s, in general, are spontaneous creations that often rely on free association and a purely verbal Iogie. Simpson, also a contemporary playwright, feels that \the retreat from rea·sun means preciou~ Ii.ttle to any- one who has never caught up with. reason in the· first place. It take·s a trained n1in.d: to relish a non-seq~;ti tur.\ Tickets will go on sale at the N'ot t Memorial box office February 14 at 1 :00. F nion students may obtain tickets free; tickets for <elates will sell for $l.HlJ. AU other tickets wiU co-st $2.00. Mr. :\1orl'ell urge~ early ticke-t purchasi11g _ Martin Announces NSF Summer Grant For Northeast High School Teachers By William Lasnik President Harold C. Martin has announced the awarding of three grants fot· summer programs at the College. . . The General Electric Corporation, Nattonal SCI· ence Foundation, and Department of Health, Ed- ucation, and Welfare will supply funds for three ~ummer institutes for high sehoul teachers. Designed to enrich secondary school educatot·s, the three programs will focus on ec~nomics, Eng- lish, history, science and mathcmut!cs, Teachers from Northeast nnd Middle Atlantic 'states \nil receive the fellowships, which include full tuitinn and freC' room and board. G.E. Sponsors Economics The trustees of the Genet·al Electric Founda- tion have been sponsoring a summer insti.tute at Union Collerre for the past five years. Th1s sum- mer'S instit~te will co?sist of a six .week ec_ono~­ ics program for 40 h1gh school soCial stud1es In- structors. Courses will carry credit toward a Master of Science Degree for teachers. Although the General Electric Fo~nda.tio~ spon- sors similar programs in four other mst1t~tlons of higher learning, the U?ion-G.E. econom1Cs p~o­ -rram is especially enrtched by scheduled VlSlts to the nearby General Electric Company facilities, and lectures and consultations with company per· so nne!. Professor Joseph Finkelstein, Chairm.an of the History Department and Professor o~ H1story and Economics, will direct the ecunomtcs program. Applications are due March 15, and may be ob- tained at the Special Programs Office at Union College. ;\;,S.F. Provides Grant The science and mathematics summer institute will be open to 100 high school and junior hig-h school teachers ·who will study for a Master of Science degree. The program, sponsored by the National Science Foundation, will be eight weeks Qlasaunua ~lubgr in duration. The entire degree program may l.>e completed in three summers, or in a combinatien of summer and winter study. This y-ear, gradu- ate credit courses in biology, che:rnistry, geology, mathematics, and physics will be oif'el\ed. Professor Robert Schaefer, of the ])epartment of Chemi-stry at Union College, w·i!l direct the NSF institute. The deadline for applications is February 15. Further information and applica- tion forms are avaHable at the Office (}f Special Programs. Union College will also conduct a summer in- stitute for advanced study in English and history for secondary school teachers. Funds 'Will be pro- vided by the Office of Education o:f the Depart- ment of Health, and Welfare. A.utborized under Title XI of the National Defense ~dLication Act, the fello\Vships will be extended to 35 soci!ll stud- ies teachers, and 50 English instt·uctot·s from sec- ondary schools in the Northeast an.d' Middle At- lantic areas. Program With 'A:Ibany S~te The NDEA program will be condllcted in co- ordination with the State Univer-sity of New York at Albany, Carl Niemeyer, Ch~ii-man of the Department of English, and Professor of English, will head the English institute. Manfred Jonas, Associate Professor of History ~m<l director of the graduate p!'ogram in American Studies will direct the Histo1·y Institute. Cur ric u I a r Q u e:r i e s Members of the college comnnmity who have any questions relating to the new cturiculum may address them to CONCORDIENSIS, in care of the Student Activities Office. Dean Theodore Lockwood will provide answers in su~sequent is- sues of the newspaper. ~~~~~~?:!Sit~1V.~{~:!£*~t:.tf~*j:.~~·?:W.f;§~:lf::~~f:l:~~~~~~f::f:~~~~::m;~:~~~:~~'$l:~~®~~~:~~?t.i:i:I:~~;:~~::~::~~::~~~tE}.~:;:,:~~) \~ ''1 I Campus Calender :i~ ~i ~~j~ ~\) Friday, February H: Film Series, E.E, 22, ,., :,~ .. '·f.t.i.~.· 7:00 and 9;00 P.M. \The Golden Age of ~~ '' 1 F1~~~~:~.'~wimming-, Union vs. Roches- ,, ~ ter at home, 2:30 P.M. @ i.:,:~.~.·.·.· S\~:ni5iPJ:r.Union vs. Rochester at home, ~ h w ~ 1 r; Satuii~i:· u~i~:;u~~.y R~rr. ~r~n~~~lLoo ~~t ~~.~.: .. Wrestling: Union vs R.P.L, at home, , .. j['; 2 :\pir· U ' K' P. t M i~ :--:· Bas et a : tuon vs. 1ngs 0111 , e- ;.:;:·li '\ Moria! Field House, 8:00 P.M. · i<i :.\londay, February U: The ::.\loving Finger, t~:! ,,: Hale House Student Lounge, 7:30P.M. i\! ' Tuesday, February 15: LF.C., Hale House ·· Student Lounge, 7 :(!)0 P.M. i~i The Galaxy Playe1·s, 8:30 P.M., Nott Me- ;': ~. moria!. 1\ ;;,\ Wednesday, February 16: Outing Club, 4:30 C: ~-~ P.M~, Hale House Student ·Lounge. !~ t'·' Naval Aviation Procurement Team, 10:00- 8 !:J 2 00 P M H I H e ¥:4', 1 , J~ Gal~xy Piay~rs,as~ao P~M.; Nott Memorial. ;$ !i! Thursday, February 17: Galaxy Players, ~ b 8:30 P.M., Nott Memorial. i!l: lii Friday, Febmary 18: Film Series, EE. 22, - I~,~!!~~!~~~~J Curtis For~ns Cha1nberGroup A new chamber orchestra ha:s been formed in conjunction with Union College. Edgar Curtis, Professor of Music at the college, originated the plans for the chamber orchestra, known as the Northeastern New York Philhar- monia. The orchestra, directed by Professor Curtis, will consist only of professional chamber players. Currently, the orchestra includes an orchestra pianist, Edward Hausman, of the Skidmore Col- lege faculty, and thirteen string players from the Northeastern area. The chamber orchestra is patterned after sim- ilar orchestras of the United States and Europe, in which solo wind, brass, or percussion players will appear with the strings when the perform- ance demands. Professor Curtis said that the Philharmonia will maintain the highest standard's of musical ex- cellence. It will give a limited number of concerts throughout the winter and summer seasons. Martin Offers Praise Dr. Harold C. Martin, President of Union, who aided in the establishment of the orchestra, said \the production of g-ood music is important to the cultural life of both college and community. We are especially pleased, therefore, that the Northeastern New York Philharmonia will make its headquarters here on campus. by stewart and granger • IHC:. 7 DIAMOt\\D. ' r . Friday, February 11, 1966 Interfaith Council To Rally Sunday By Roy F'ruiterman 4 The Seventh Annua'l Youth Rally of the Inter- faith Council will take place on the Union Cam- pus Sunday, February 13. Students are needed to help in the raHy by sitting in on group dis- cuss:ons as \resource persons.\ Dr. Norman John- son said that any students aiding the rally in thL; capac:ty will be rewarded with a complimen- tary dinnet· afterwards. The day's activities, which begin at 3 P.M. and continue until G l'.:\1., are bei·ng· coordina:ted ,by high school ~tudent-; fl'Dm nearby areas with Prof. ·N,·lrmnn B. Johnson and Miss Ann Travis as adv;·sers. Ht>giste1· in Afternoon At :~ P.M. registmtion \ViH take place, at which a Kosher snack will be served. A charge of $.50 will coYer the entire day's activities. The Rev. Fay L. Gt>tnlllPll will then address the group with < \What's Cooking- on the Teen Scope?\ at 3:30. At 4:15 high school students will lead small dis- cussion groups in the Chapel, Silliman Hall and Bai'ley Hall in which Union College students wiJ.l act as resource pet·sons. l\lore Activities A Folk Sing is next on the program, led by Marcia Miller of Linton High School and Tony Wolff of Niskayuna High School. The 'Sing' will , take place in the Chapel at 5:00. At 5:30, any ' questions which were brought up at the group discussion will be directed to Rev. Gemmell, after which a K0she1· snack will be ·served in West College. ,. Reverend is Poet Rc\·. Fay GP.mmell is the campus minister of Keene State College, New Hampshire. He is a g-raduate of Nebraska Wesleyan Universi~y. Fo~- , lo\\''ng his undergraduate work, he receiVed hrs snminary degree in Boston University's School of Theology. He received hi's clinical training in Mass. General Hospital, Charlestown State Pris- on and the Boston Committee on Alcoholism. He •. cu~Tently i's teaching courses in religion at the State College and has pul;>lished a poetry bo~~let entitled Penny Candy, Five Cents. In addrtton, Rev. Gemmell has been writing a weekly colut?D, \The Proxy Pulpit\ for The Keene Evenmg Sentinel for nine years. Did you have a 4.0 going into finals and wind up with a 1.2? Did yoll buy all your bool<s and then find Ollf they were for the wrong courses? Did you get turned down by 1 6 fraternities? J Did you feel left out of it becallse they won't let you watch Batman with them? In other words, are you dissatisfied with the way things are going? CHEER UP! You still have a chance to write for Concordy. Positions open in all departments! Think of the following advantages: If you work hard enough yoll might get a by-line, (Your name will be smeared all over campus). You will know the news two days before the rest of the campus (So that by Friday yoJJ will have sufficiently recovered to enioy the weak~d). ~ You have a chance at being placed on the editorial board by next year. (You rllthless status seekerJ. 11 . You will get a break every Wednesday night from the aggravating grind of school- work and instead enioy yourself with the ~ · aggravating grind of newspaper work. Friday, Feb1 I RHODE dependence c land had ai use her mW majority of ment, and B American re action, have a revival of Rarely ha bination of' Bl'itain. He ence 11· ith .aJ ·l>oth law ar democratic morals and coincide. Yet the UJ self with a lion, enragi! Africa, leadi relations wi wealth. .Om plantations ; The RhodE adionary a1 who is pers It has sever rectitude of parallels bet rebellion. Y proclaiming sion to be \ a non-racial we will not l European or To prove nificant adY~ tion, and ec constitution jority rule, But while of Sir Edga ing of this ' in attempts he forgets t ers whom h .. _\ M :· CbV~ ...-- ' .See I NEXT WE'flK ePISODE S0-0000000 STOP IN AT THE CON- ( CORDY OFFICE IN THE STUDENT ACTIV/TfES BUILDING- ANY WfDNESDAY NfGHT AFTER 7:30 AND YOU WILL BE IMMEDIATELY PLACED ON THE STAFF. D'AMICO'S TEXACO SERVICE ROAD SERVICE 1757 Van Vranken Ave. Phone FR 2-9767 Let the lager freely flow, Down to Louis', let us go, :t' T TV T 'T T 'Y T TV t 'f fIt Y if W f t • FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 016-1763 A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodaferl in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 ·~#Y.fft¥f¥f¥f iYfYfiti¥iY¥Yffifffffff tt ffffffi# DEWITT'S Cafe-teria and Tap Room Fine Fcod and Legal Beverages 118. 120 JAY STREET ~,,.,..,.,.., .. .,,,,..,.,,..,,...,.,oll,.,., ... ~\''## . .,.,.~,,. ... ,,,*'\\\ . LARGEST SELECT! ON OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 1 1 AN.. to 9 P.M. - Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL - CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA e RAIL • CHARTER BUS LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian· American Food 1125 BARREm ST. Schenectady Dl 6-97 44 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar (. J:~ au~ ,, ~ -fo \ JE\' F~



4 l'u~ltailed Fridays during the school yea·r by tl1e Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National A.dvertlaing Service. Inc., College Publishers Representati\·e. 420· 1\Iadis<>n Ave .• N. Y. C. l!:dltonal Offlce, Old Gym, L'nlon College. Publication Off.lce, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 602 Broadway. Entered in the· Sche· n<>ctady Post Office as Second Class .Mail ~latter. Subscription 16c a l'upy: $B a year deliverE.\d ·anywhere in the United States. SENIOR HO.AHO UA.Hl\Y ~ E\V11AN ·~~.. .. ............ 346-9~;;9 ................................ Editor-in-Chlef . JEFFREY SPECTOR 'GG .................... :::7 ·1!1 !l:: .......... ...... : ... :::: .... ~~~~~~:~~n:l'k~~7~:: ; :.\IAHK KASOWITZ '6~ ......................... · ~IOR1'Y KA:\IZA~ '67...... .............................. .. ........................... News Euitor . How, To Ma:ke History .. ' '. And Your Congresswontan W1th summer only three months away, Unio.n students must again face the problem of summer em'Ployment. Few if any find an \ideal\ summer position, hut on occasion the ideal summer job does appear. M.arshall Thurber, a senior histol'Y major here at Union, was for- tunate-he obta.ined such a position. At approximately this time last year, Thurber received notice from his Con- gressman that he had been selected to visions of Washington danced in the Un- ion student's head. He would be in a city that provided almost unlimited cul- tui,al, social, and political opporhmities; a city where history is constantly being made; and a city where there are sLx eligible females for every eligible male. . T STOLZU'\l'G .,- .................... Feature ·Editor 1 , HOBBit .u ' \• .......... · ·· . . . S t Editor '''·':::H::::::;,:·::i:'{}';';;';\)''''J:'('····:··. ANDY COLR '67 ........................................................................................ Lit p~: 8 Editor 1 The summer itself was even more re- /warding 1than Thurber's ·expectations. His work for his Congressman consisted of reading all major legislation, summar- izing it and then writing a personal evalufl.tion on it telling how he would vote and why. He did this before con- sulting with either his Congressman or the Administrative Assistant. The in- tern's purpose was to provide his Con- gressman with a fresh outlook upon the legislation. PAt:!. SIIERWIN '67 ... :. .. .. ... ...... .. .......................... :. , elt cy Advisor ' HF:::'\'HY I:<'ERGUSON 'oO ...................................................................... ! acu Y JL'NIOR BOARD Assislant ):'ews Bl1itor . Just'\llh :\hum ·u~ ........... · · ............... :~~~~~~~~::··-~_:·.~:~: ... ~ .. ~::A~~istant Literary Editor ; Donald Sch\vartz • 6 ~ .............................. · ............................... Subscription :Manager Hobert Hosenthal 'G7.................................... . .. :\'ntional Ath'erusing· )lunager .Jud.;. Et-ki n ·liS Circulation ~lanager Sleven Arlwff 'G7 ....... .... .. · .... :·::::::::::::: Photography Editor Kenneth Dousnuet \6S ............................ . Living Death? The rush has passed. The last plodding tour of \the house\ has been conducted; the last dull conversati?n with \some of the brothers\ is over; the last snow Job has been consummated. In the space of about two wee~s t.he sixteen brotherhoods at Union met to discuss the somal, In- tellectual and psychological makeup of the freshman class. They separated the \really nice guys\ from the \turkeys\ and determined that certain young men would be \good for the house\ while others are too conceited, too shy, too neat, too messy, or not enough of anything in particular. In doing so they managed to attract a go?d number of people into fraternity life. At the same time, however, they inducted a considerable s~gment of_ the freshmen into the seventeenth variety of life here-mdependence. For the new pledges, the future is rosy. All they have to face is three months of harassment, in varying degrees, by their brothers. The new independent, on the ~ther_hand, is up against three months of adju~tment to ~ hfe Without schedule. His friends are not provided at a slight fee, and neither is his social life. He must fill in the void that has been handed him, find his own friends, and create his _own diversions-no one will do it for him. If any benefit IS to be reaped from independence, the atmospher~ o~ gloom and alienation fostered by the college and signified by Richmond House must be overcome, and a rich life substi- tuted in spite of the \establishment.\ This is a challenge few fraternity men know. When an independent meets this challenge effectively, he joins the most creative and most thoughtful students on campus. Whether he writes, paints, acts or conducts experiments, he is performing with a seriousnes~ and a direction that fraternity life clouds. He is more mvolved in the college, and gains more from being _here. But. there is a second kind of independent-one who IS less mobvated and finds it far more difficult to overcome the built-in stigma placed upon him when he is not bid. He is isolated, confined, and hardly functions as a member of the college community. Union College, at this stage, does nothing for the non- affiliate. In order to escape the living death of undesired independence, every freshman not in a fraternity will re- quire a drive and a purpose beyond that of the fraternity man. Now that the rush is over, the new born independent must ask himself, \Where do I go from here?\ Old Time!s Sake Congressman Robert T. Stafford (R.-Vt.) and sect·etary. work in the Cong1·essman's office for the upcoming summer. Immediately, \Inside Process\ Moreover, the average intern working day was filled with special intern sem- inars designed to acquaint the student with the \inside process\ of legislation. At these special seminars, which ranged in .size f'r.·om five or six students to three or four hundred, Thurber had the oppor- tunity ·to meet and talk with many of America's top legislators-an experience that no newspaper or textboolc can pro- vide. Socially, interns ftre limited only by the number of nights in the summer. Thurber attended embassy parties, con- certs,, plays, and Congressional and in- tern p!IJrti:es. The latter included .a moonlight ~ruise up the Potomac and a Congressional Intern Ball. Some of the more vivid experiences that our Union i11otern recalls include viewing the Na- tional Ballet of Canada and Peter Nero, and having dinner with Jimmy Hoffa. on top of the Teamsters white-marble edi- fice next to the CapiltaL Each summer there are over 6,000 student intern positions available in Washington. All that it takes to obtain a position is a great deal of effort and a little luck. Thurber did not know his Congressman until he went for his in- terview. Friday, February 11, 1966 R. P. W. By Paul Sherwin WheB you get a man in trouble (Sleep or dream, say, al'e the only ~;ssentiaHy redeemable Kinds), your business, your most lonely Duty, rather (in that solemn Moment when that war of fotces That is your past, srales the column Of your breath, grabs you, and tosses It up to you in a vision; And that instant involves death, love, All of i.t, all in that vision: Twenty-four re•vulutions of The moon mi,ght be, in reality, Twenty-four winters of a life If you could be sufficiently Diseng'\Uged to accept the knife Or whatever affects the sting), As I was saying, is to kill Him for a while, go find that thing, Bast or love Ol' whatever will Kill a man. Then yoa've got to do Christ's old job and get him out too. Borofsky Gets Rich Bob Borofsky, 66, has won the Florence E. Rich Library prize for the best collection of books. According to Carl Niemeyer, one of the judges, Borofsky's collection showed greater focus and organization than any of the other entries. The field wa;s anthropol- ogy. The Rich Prize carries an award of r $75.00 and the winner is eligible to com- pete in the national competition, for the Amy Loveman Prize of about $1,000.00. This contest is supported by the Satur- day Review of Literature. There were twelve entries in the con- test. The finalists weve T·om Spencer, Jack Stokvis, and Rodham Tulloss. In ~ addition to Dr. Niemeyer, James Thrash of the Library and Valter Pilcher of the Physics Department were the judges. Italian Friday, Fe Alit Ear. Prof. N Humanitie at Union search gr: Associatio History tl eolon}al hi England. Dean A ten two \ ords publi: torical So era! pape: lated field With th has recei\'1 study the in Portsm terj', Main1 tee11th am turies. H cifi~ally f( financial taining H tion for hi that this spend his swnmer in try with 1 cerned. 0 Professo scholars in Canada rec that this a: ca is suff the Boston I o ca:l his to io the Bri area, whic \Theatre o in colonia stores, mD lated foreE tion, sever there werE Allen inte1 his study Pledg (Continued Twenty-J matched d1 Italian lessons are being offered by Maurizio Ferrando. Mr. Ferrando is a native Italian, presently studying at Un- ion in the H.E.L.P. program. He is available at 1301 Lenox Rd., 372-9772. · ' ., February ! 1 ln:st year. The bre: alphabetica Delta Phi, 1 Chi Psi, 1C Phi, 18; D pa, Alpha, Also, Pll Gamma D De:.ta, 16; Psi Upsilo Sigma Phi . Chi, 10. Rul~o (Continuej non-council particular!~ student int revise the ~ontact Je Miss Gertl Student Ac L. G. I CAR BADGES STATIC Cll ME! Frate 729 s Syrm PI 51 Sche Union College made the New York Times this week! It was for something we did in 1805. The state legislature, you know, overwhelmingly passed a proposed constitu- tional amendment to permit state-run lotteries for the pur- post of collecting more funds for New York's schools. We're sending some of our representatives back to school In 1805 North and South Colleges were built here with funds from just such a lottery, and this point was actually used in the debate by Assemblyman Stockmeister from Monroe. What Mr. Stockmeister forgot to mention, The Times reports, was that the lottery was abolished in 1833 after a succession of scandals and investigations. Never-theless, when the amendment comes up for a vote, Union Men should rally in favor of it, for old times sake. We :may even make The Times again next November. They won't be matriculating but they'll be studying ways to have some lengthy talks with you. Their assignment is to search out graduates who have the talent and imagination to handle sophisticated assignments and the determination to do a job better than most. ·The vitality of McDonnell is ap- parent by the headline-making strides it has taken in spacecraft, air- craft, electronics and automation. The NASA Gemini has set new re- cords in space, laying the ground- work for exploration of the moon and it is being readied for new assign- ments with the Air Force. If. these projects strike sparks with your imagination you're in good company ... the top scientific and en- gineering talents in the nation. For more information see your College Placement Office or send coupon. MCDONNI!LL A PLANS FOR PROGRESS COMPANY AND ·AN .EQUAL OPPORTUN lTV EMPLOYER r---------------------------1 MCDONNELL, P.O. Box 516, : St. Louis, Missouri 63166 1 Att: W. R. Wardle, Professional Employment Office, Dept. CP I I I ' I I Name'------------ l I I City & State __________ : School, ___________ _ Oegree_, ____ Major ____ _ I I I I I I I ~-~-------------------------J FOU EAST I 860 ~ F

1966 lonely tosses love, do too. the for judges, greater of the \, of to com- for the Satur- the con- Spencer, In ~ s Thrash of e judges. by is a gat Un- He is I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I __ , Friday, February. 11, 1966 5 Allen Wins Grant For Study Of Early American Colonial History Owad Wins Student Aid' Indian Novelist Will Be Scholar In Residence Prof. Ne.al W. Allen, Dean of Humanities and Soda! Sciences ut Union College has won a re- search grant from the American Association !'or State and Luc:al· History t:.> continue his work in. colonial histo·ry in Northern New' Englund. Dean Allen has already wr:t- ten two v·olumes on Court Hec- urds published by the Maine His- torical Society, al·oi·Lg with sev- eral papers and reviews in re- • la ted fields. . With the grant-in-aid which he: has received, Dean Allen hopes to study the structure of authority in Portsmouth, N. II .. anJ Kit- tery, Maine during tile late seven- teenth and early eighteenth cen- turies. He will use the aid spe- cifi~ally for truvel expenses and financial neecls involved in ob- taining the ne,·e:;sary informa- tion for his research. Allen feels that this aid will allow him to spend his spriag vacation and swnmer in the 1Jart of the coun- try with which he is most con- cerned. One of Sixteen Professor Allen, one of 16 scholars in the United States and Canada receiving the grants, feels that this area of Northern Ameri- ca is sufficiently different from the Boston region in terms of its local history and its relationship 1 o the British government. The area, which Dr. Allen terms a \Theatre of War,\ was important in colonial times for its naval stores, massed timber, and re- lated forest products. In addi- tion, seve1·al families that lived there were influential, and Mr. Allen intends to include them in his study of that period. Pledging ... (Continued from Pg. 1, Col. 3) Twenty-four freshmen were matched during the second round , Febl'Uary 9, in comparison to 23 la:st year. The break-down by houses, in alphabetical order, was: Alpha Delta Phi, 19; Beta Theta Pi, 13; 1 Chi Psi, 10; Delta Chi, 12; Delta Phi, 18; Delta Upsilon, 12; Kap- pa, Alpha, 3: Phi Delta Theta, 20 Also, Phi Epsilon Pi, 23; Phi Gamma Delta, 15; Phi Sigma De:ta, 16; Phi Sigma Kappa, 3; Psi Upsilon, 16; Sigma Chi, 11; Sigma Phi, 7; and Theta Delta Chi, 10. Rules. • • (Continued from Pg. 1, Col. 1) non-council members who are particularly conce.rned. . Any student interested 'n workmg to revise the social rules should contact Jeffery Ratner through Miss Gertrude Anteman in the Student Activities Office. L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES W•ile or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 Scholarship George J. Owad, a Union Col- lege freshman, has received the' Wiliis R. Whitney Scholat'ship, John P. Terry, Director of Stud- ent Aiel. has announced. I Dr. Peter S. Sykowski, a 100;) . L'niun alumnus, and resident of I Scottsdale, Arizona, establishecl the scholarship in memory of Or. Willis R. Whitney, a trustee of Union College from 1919 to 1952, and a trustee emPritus until his den.th in 1958. Based on both financial need and academic po- ~ential, the scho:arship is award- ed annually by the Student Aid Committee, in coordination with Dr. Sykowski. A Native of Kiel Raja Rao, one of India's foremost contemporary novelists, has been appointed Sc:holar-in-:Residence for this term. He wiH spend twe months at four area institutions. He wiU be on the Union campus from April 18 through 30. This represents Union's first venture in bringing a distinguished per·sun tu campus for an extended dsit. Although ::Vlr. Rao is the first pt:ominent artist from the non-Western world, the hope of the J.oint Non-West2m Studies Committee is that many such visits will be scheduled. It's hoped that the ·series will enrich and invigorate the College's total academic ex:perience. Available 'F()r Student :\Ieetings Mr. Rao will be available to all classes, fraternities, groups, and individuals \Vho would like to meet him. At the present time, his schedule is relatively open, but the committee hopes to l<cep him busy during his residence. It i's hoped that he will have at least one meal at each fraternity house and seve1~al with the students at West College. The Indian author was horn in an ancient Br·ahman family of Mysol'e in 1909. He studied . .English and history at the Madres Uni- versity. A's he became rno1·e familiar with the Western world and improved his English and F·rench, he turned from research to cre- ative writing. The result was the publication of his first stol'ies in French and English. DEAN NEAL ALLEN Owad, a native of Kiel, Ge>r· many, now lives in Rochester, New Yorl<. . He gr·aduated from Rochester's Technical and Indus- trial High School, where he co- captained the soccer team and also was a member of the swim- ming team. He does not consider .himself a cosmopolitan writer, but is \an Indian, first, last, and all the time.\ Bridge Games Set Tuesday The first round of a series of qualifying duplicate bridge mat- ches will be held at 8:00 Tuesday evening in the Faculty Lounge at Hale House. Student teams must make a creditable showing in at least one of the three qualifying rounds in order to participate in the larger Student-F\aculty Bridge Tournament scheduled for this spring. Trophies will be awarded to the winners. Applicants to Tuesday's quali- fying round are required to sign up in the Student Activities of- fice. Previous experience at du- plicate bridge is not necessary, but partnerships are expected to familiarize themselves with the mechanics of duplicate play. Interested students should reg- ister as pairs. Players without partners should contact Edward Pros tic (372-9554), who will also be available for information. PETE TUCKER (Bus. Admin.) of the '62 Bethlehem \Loop\ Course enjoys selling steel products in our Cleveland District. He's typical of young men on the move at Bethlehem Steel. Seniors and graduate students in engineering and non-technical curricula will soon be interviewed for the 1966 Bethlehem Loop Course. We offer splendid career opportunities in steel plant operations, research, sales, mining, accounting, and other activities. For detailed information, pick up a copy of our booklet, \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course,\ at your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM S T E E L sETH~EHEt,t STfEl Past Present Take a look at the above chart; then a good long look at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft-where technical careers offer exciting growth, continuing challenge, and lasting stability-where engineers and scientists are recog· nized as the major reason for the Company's con· tinued success. Engineers and scientists at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft are today exploring the ever·broadening avenues of energy conversion for every environment ... all opening up new avenues of exploration in every field of aero- space, marine and industrial power application. The technical staff working on these programs, backed by Management's determination to provide the best and most advanced facilities and scientific apparatus, has already given the Company a firm foothold in the cur- rent land, sea, air and space programs so vital to our country's future. The list of achievements amassed by our techrlical staff is ·a veritable list of firsts in the development of compact power plants, dating back to the first Wasp engine which lifted the United States to a position of world leadership in aviation. These engineering and scientific achievements have enabled the Company to obtain its current position of leader- The Company's 'first engine, thf.. Wasp, took to the air on May 5, 1926. Within a year the Wasp set its first world record and went on to smasll existing records and set standards for both land and seaplanes for years to come, carrying airframes and·pilots higher, farther, and faster than they had ever gone before. In i'ecent years, planes powered by Pratt & Whitney Aircraft have gone on to set new standards of performance in much the same way as the Wasp had done in the 1920's. The 727 and DC-9 are indicative of the new family of short-to-medium range jetliners which are powered by the highly successful JT8D turbofan. Examples of current military utilizations are the J58· powered Mach 3 YF-12A which recently established four world aviation records and the advanced TF30-powered F-111 variable• geDmetry fighter aircraft. ship in fields such as gas turbines, liquid hydrogen technology and fuel cells. Should you join us, you'll be assigned early responsi- bility. You'll find the spread of Pratt &Whitney Aircraft's programs requires virtually every technical talent. You'll find opportunities for professional growth further en- hanced by our Corporation-financed Graduate Educa· tion Program. Your degree can be a BS, MS or PhD in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEIVIA.TICS • ENGINEERING SCIENCE OR APPLIED MECHANICS. For further information concerning a career with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, cmsult your college placement officer-or write rvlr _ William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt &. Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. SPECIALISTS IN POWER, ... POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS- CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SFACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUS- TRIAL APPLICATIONS. Pratt & Whitney ~ircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED t:iRAFT CORP, CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA An Equal Opportunity Employer, M & F

DOMINO FALLS Concotdy Page 3 Sports CONGRESS WOMAN Page4 Dutchmen Squads Score On Mid - Season Surge Wrestlers Blank Hartford Will Face R.P .I. Toinorro-w By 'Walt Baxter The l'nion YarsH\• WI'estlincr team extended its \Vi;ming streak to three, Wednesday, crushing an outclassed H.:ntford VniYer- ~ity squad 39-0_ Thi~ i~ lhe ~econd consecutive match in which the matmen have shut out the opposietiun, B1·ouldyn Poly was a simi·lar Yictim on Deeember !'\;'. L\nion \vas aided bv forfeits in the 1~:~. 130, ami If>~ lb. dassps, Bill \V aitc>, Hon I :mnoti, and Lt>t• Frei were the forfeit winner::;. In the first match, the 1:~7 lh. class, Kt>n Bousquet dedsioned :\IeDDll- a!d 8-1. This was Bousquet's tiP- hut as a Ga1·net \\T!'Stle r. !'au! Boor followed with <t fi-~ d<•l'ision ''\'''' Heed. Plethora of Pins Aftet· a Hartfot·d fodeit in the l;j~ !h. cbss ~rave l'nion an in- surmountable lt>ad, Coach Bruer .-\llison mon•d his remaining \\'res tiers up a wt•ig-ht dass in an attempt to equalize matters. This move was to no m·ail as Union· swept the fh·e remaining matches,: l:lcoring four pins. Undefeate<l 1 Jan Werner, wrestling at 160, I pinned Thomson in 5:47. Dale. Sclmeider deci>liuned Quirk in the 1 1H7 lb. class. 5-U- Barry Corn- , wall wrt>stling at hem·yweight in-1 stead. of. h_is .usual l77, pinned I Jut Warner applies a single leg b~ok and waist twist to Tom Tripp o_sowiecki I~ 2 :4~. Dave Reed I in practice SPssion. pmned Ryghsyn 1n the 177 lbs.: class in 4:20. In an unofficial; single out any one wrestler as is certain to provide tougher op- exhibition match Union heaYy- outstanding, merely stating that position than the first three op- weight Gordon Lisker pinned he 1\·as sa:ti·sfied. He expec-ts the ponents on the schedule. The Bloome in 4:00. squad's first real test to come match will be at home at 1:00 Coach Allison was t•eluctant to, ag-ainst RPI on Saturday. RPI I Saturday. ·~ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Swi1n1ners Extend Streak; Siers, Amesbury, Corrigan Star' Ey Don Scholl Union College's undefeated varsity swimming team rolled up an impl\essive 62-33 victory Satur- day to the disappointment of a pat·tisan winter 1-veekend crowd at. Hamilton College 1o complete a highly successful weekend of theh· own. On the previous day the Garnet natators dropped Vermont University from the ranks of the un- beaten, at the same time extending their own un- hC'aten string to three with a 56-~9 tl'iumph. Vermont Challenge In Vermont, Union met its ste1·nest challenge 11f -the year to date. Paced by the {)Utstanding t>tforts of Captain Dick Siers ancl sophomores Dick Amesbury and Dick Corrigan, the Dutchmen :tvenged last year's fh·e-point defeat at the hands <>f the Mountaineers. Siers was a surprise winner in the 50-yard freestyle an e\·ent in which he had never before appeared. 'His time Vl'.as ~ creditable ~-!.6 seconds. He later dominated tl1e field in his specialty, the 200-ya.rd backstroke, and won eas- ily. Amesbm·y was also a double \-ictor, copping both the 200 and 500-y.ard freestyle events. His times were 2.04.2 and 6:07.9, respectively. Cor- rigan won the 200-yard individual medley and placed second t() Amesbury in the 500 freestyle. Chris Cassels c]j.splayed the form that has made him virtually un heatable off the one meter board as he W()n the diving \vith a score of 167.5. An- other key factor- in Union's .success were timely second place finishes by the team's less heralded members. Fred Fagal turned in a fine perform- ance, finishing seC()nd in the 200 IM. Norm Dov- berg dut>licated Fagal's feat twice. His second place in the 200-yard breaststl'oke sealed the win. Dovberg Effort Agains-t Hami.Iton, Am-esbury, the sophomvre 1 sensation, remained undefeated in dual meet com-1 petition winning hath the 200 free (2·02 2) .and the 500 freestyle (5:52.~) for the fourth straight time. Eoth times eclipsed his previous best efforts over those distances. Norm Dovberg's tremend- ous effort in the 200 bTeaststroke earned nim a first place as he upset Hamilton's Bruce Mohl. !r-------------------------------------~ DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 1 A.M. 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF- BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES YYtffTfffT+t•ttfT'+ffTitYTtWfTt'TfYY• Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET '2JiamonJ6 ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 • + + 1 + + • • • + + , • , • .. • a • • • • • .. ' &. .. • \ • • • • • • + • ' • + • a • • • , • + • • • • a ' A • • 4 • .. • • 4 4 ' • ..,.~ I Cagers Tran~ple Atnherst, 77-59; WillFaceKingsPoint To~norrow) By Mike Epstein 1 '' Tomorrow night the Garnet cagers, sporting' a two game win- ning streak, will face the Sailors of King's Point in the Field House. Last year, the Merchant J Marine Academy defeated the Dutchmen. Next \\'eek the Gar- net will face Pratt and Stevens on February 15 and 16 in two road contests. Both games will ht· broadeast O\'er WRUC. Wednesday, the varsity five easily toppled Amherst 77- 59, to raise their season record to 4-10. The Lord Jeffs have only produced three wins in fourteen games. Although snow forced the can- cellation of their first contest of the new semester, the Garnet, still green from their long lay-· off, managed to down Harpur, 69- 62 last Friday. The Hobart con- test will not he rescheduled. Against Amherst, Greg Olson played a tenacious game and tied for scoring honors with Bill Nei- del with twenty-three points. Ol- son tallied on ten field goals and three of four foul shots. Neidel poured in eight field goaLs and hit seven for eight from the stripe. Fitz Turner chipped in ten points. Bob Krause led the losers with fourteen. From the moment Neidel sunk a jumper to put the Garnet ahead, 2-0, Union was never headed. With three and one-half minutes gone in the first half, Olson made his second steal and converted it into .a three-point play to put the Dutchmen in front, 7-1. With Giancola, Hrdlicka, Nei- del, Turner, and Ol-son all hit- ting for Union, the Garnet pulled out to a 36-25 lead by halftime. The Jeffs aided the Dutchmen .at- tack by making several bad passes and baH-handling mistakes. Fib Hugh Turner ~ores on Jay- up in his 10 point effort against Amherst. Strong Second Half Union came on strong in the second half. Olson converted two fouls, and then hit on a jumper. Neidel hit on a foul and then a jumper; Hrdlicka scored with an assist from Olson. The Dutch- men then led, 45-29. Amherst whittled away lilt the lead and cut tt finally to seven, 51-44, on PnESS· WITHOUT REST The end of rumple and wrinkle is here announced. Slacks of perm- anently pressed polyester and cotton are now available at this Establishment, in preferred neu- tral colourings. An examination is invited. 1Martin Hits 635 Series Larry Martin, '67, continued to widen his lead in the Dutch Clas- sic Monday night by firing games of 220, 190, .and 225 for a 635 total. Only two meetings ago on January 10 Martin set two loop standards v.iith a 255 game in a 640 series. He currently holds an average of eight pins in aver- < age over the pacl\ with 182. Despite the awesome score posted by Martin, Junior Bootery dropped Teddy R's twice to re- main in th-ird place. Zach Van Voast and AI De Siena, both Phi Delts, helped Bootery set the sea- son's high team game of 753 with 206 and 220, respectively, in the second warne. De ,Siena finished with a neat 579 trio. Another team record fell in Top's whitewashing of Moffett's featuring a 205-591 effort by Rich Spl\ingstead '68. With the aid of frosh AI Case's 574, Top's cracked the 2,000 total pin mark for the first time this season with 2,043, and increased its lead to 3% points in the team race. a three-point play. Union shot extremely well ft,om the floor, rnaking thirty-one of sixty ... 'l:!ight, w l1ile Amherst was a pathetic 24-71. Both teams had fifty-three rebounds and twenty- four foul a>ttern]>ts, but the Gar- net converted four more fouls. (.,, I .l ' Vol. 95 ... Thi~ n l Union ity to w Suppo tion Pro ernment group w faculty · a: meml group\s field WOJ A me~ at 4:30, ·ested in the carr that WOl once; \tl Tracy,'( Bui Stu A new in exces.s for g-rour of 1967. Entin Comr The l fied the Council : ing yest approved form th: Faculty form inc of \acad• gested b PolJ OnJ In a p1 parents, I Pollock h~ ' in regula1 student. The arti must subs ing much authority, in which 1 ing more 1 Dean Pc son the co in its acti' serve 'in lc the college dent a ba also provi1 cal counse student li We find parentis\ and ninete college stu what your student, tl rigid regu \the corr world!' 1' has gone 1 . rules has Conti

its to etas- games for a 635 ago on \I two loop game in a holds in aver- < 182. score or Bootery to re- Zach Van both Phi et the sea- 753 with in the finished fell in Moffett's effort by With the 574, Top's pin mark season its lead race. well fl'Om of was teams had twenty- the Gar- fouls. • Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 95 -· No. 16 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1966 PRICE 15 CENTS Student Aid Asked In Federal Poverty Fight This l~fonday s Meeting WiJ/ Tackle Plans for Local Youth .. ~ ~ by Ken Bousquet THE KIDS AT CARVER CENTER: Union students will do similar work under the prop()sed :pr()gram. At rig-ht. Robert Thurber, '68 By Robert A. Fried Union Cullege students may have an opportun- ity to work in a community anti-poverty project. Supported by the Schenectady Community Ac- tion Progt·am ( S.C.A.P.), under th~ federal gov- ernment's War on Poverty, the propo-sed campus group would be \an organization of students with faculty backing,\ said Prof. Norman B. Johnson, a member of the organizing committee. The group\s work would be mostly tutoring and other field work. The eommittee urged that all students intel\- ested, out not sure of' what they could do or \Vhat \\\as refjuiJ•ed, should attend the meet- ing. As presently envi::1ioned, the campus action group's activities would be confined mostly to tutoring ::;tudents from one area of South Sche- nectady. Prof. Johnson described the area as fol- lows: \It is an area in which there are more peo- ple who are les's :prosperous than the average het·e. There is a much higher percentage l)f Negroes.\ Prof. Sherwood D. Fox, a member of the com- mittee and of the board 'Df directors of the S.C.A.P. estimated that Negroes constitute 27f! pet· cent of the population of Schenectady, but 70 pel\ cent live in one of four \tracts or districts. He said a \high proportion\ of the families ther-e have an income of less than $3000 a year. Children living in this area attend either Horace Mann Elementary School, the Wa'shington Irving Junior High School, or the Mount Pleasant High School. Prof. Christopher Fried said that \only a very small percentage\ of these children go to college or even have hopes of (joing so. Activities with Mount Pleasant students would be mostly tutoring; Mr. Joseph Collins, principal of the high school, said that the most pressing needs are for tutors in mathematics, Siocial stud- ies, and science. He also said that leaders are needed for discussion grouP's about ()Ut'side read- ings in literature. the youngster to \something beyond the ·s-cope of his limited life.\ Administration officials of the Horace Mann Sch<Xll indicated that Union Golleg-e students un- dt'r the .program would help with arts and crafts, read stories and poetry to the younger children, an<l do similar activities. Tl1e campus project is still in the planning stage. It will soon come before S.C.A.P.'s Proj- ects Committee for app1·oval. S.C.A.P may re- ceive a federal grant of up to $250,000 for all the projects under its direction. The committee noted th.at since the campus project will be competing w1th other proposals fot· funds, it is imperative that a workable plan with demonstrable stu- dent support be presented to the Projects Com- mittee. A meeting will be held next Monday aftemoon, at 4:30, in Nott Memorial, for all students inter- ·ested in wm•king on such a project. Members of the campus organizing committee emphasized that work in the neighborhoods will not begin at once· \this is not a mass movement,\ said Phelps Tracy, '68, a member of the organizing committee. Building Plans Announced; Student Center Included A new building program costing in exces.s of $10 million will be ready for groundbreaking by the summer of 1967. Entire Faculty Approves Community Government The Union College faculty rati- fied the chartet• for the All-College Council at a gener-al faculty meet- ing yesterday. Facul.ty members approved the charter m the same form that it was accepted by the Faculty CounciL T~e san<-;ti?I;~ed form includes the revised defimtton of \academic aff;airs\ that was sug- gested by tfue F acuity Council. Pollock Writes On Regulations In a printed article circulated to parents Dean of Students 0. Edward Pollock 'ha:s treated the college's role in regulating the social life of the student. The article, des-cribed how a college must substitute for the parents, bear- , ing much of their responsibility and authority, and spoke •of the manner in which today's students are assum- ing more of this responsibility. '~In Loco Parentis\ Dean Pollock explains that one rea- son the college is often misunderstood in its actions is that the school must serve 'in loco parentis.' In other words, the college mu·st not only give the stu- dent a basis for a career, but must ., also provide 1·e1igious and psychologi- cal counselling, as well. as rul.ef! for student living and social activities. We find the roots of the \in loco parentis\ doctrine in the eighteenth and nineteenth· centuries. Because the college student at that time wa'S some- what younger than our present day student, the college strictly enforced rigid regulations to protect him from \the corrupting influen~es of the world.\ Now that the average age has gone up, the enfurcement of such rules has slackened. Continued oil Page 5, Col. 1 President Martin announced that plans include a student center and a st\ience complex; as well as additions to the Li!brary, Field Hot~.se and the construction of a fine arts building. The President told a general fac- ulty meeting :yesterday that the pro- gram has been \approved in princi- ple\ by the Eoard of TrusteEl!s. The money will be raised th1•ough a con- siderable fund drive to be launched later this Spring. The construction will be in addition to the work now in progre·ss on the library satillites and lower campus dormit01·ies. The cost of these build- ings total·s $6.5 million. Academic Concentration The plans aim at a concentration of academic facilities in a rough \U\ sh·ape behind Shaffer Library. The new structures would begin at the present •sLte of Kappa Alpha and ex- tend to Phi Ga.mma DeLta and eventu- ally to Delta Upsilon. The specificatiQns involve a number of new buildings. One will be erected in the oarea of the Biology Laborra- tory and one 'behind <the Sonia! Sci- ence' Center, now occupied by tennis courts. These will be coordinated with Electrical Engineering, Chemistry and Eailey Hall to form a science com- plex. The gym will al'Bo undergo .a co!l- version, although future wse l'S st!Il indefinite. A new gym fus expected to be added to the Field House. Stltdent Center The student center will be placed in a completely overhauled Carnegie :Hall with a glass enclosed dining hall' addition overlooking Jackson's Garden. The college hopes to take advantage of a.bout fifty pllJI'cent more space, at a lower cost, un<leT these arrangements. The architect for the project is Steinmann and Cain. '!'he planner is Samuel Zisma:n who has been coun- celling .the administration for several months. A. aetailed report on the program, including p.Jans and drawings, will app&ar in tilie next regulwr issue of Concordiensis. The organizing committee feels that an intangi- ble benefit of a campus project would be, in Prof. Johnson's words, \to identify a Union College man with one of these boys.\ The tutorial rela- tionship would, the committee hopes, introduce Science And Engineering Center Gets New Dean A RONETTE ~-----~-- --- \Fratman\ Molds A Camp Weekend A snow sculpture contest with the suggest~d -theme of \Fratman\ has been schedUled for Winter Ueekend on Satu1·day afternoon, February 26. Any fr.aternity or intere,g.ted group i·s eligible to participate but a registration fee of $5.00, paid to the Student Activities office by F'ebruary 23, is required for entry. On Saturday night, February 26, The Ronettes, along with The Drifters and The Lovin' Spoonful, will appear in Memorial Chapel. J,ack Ely and the Kingsmen, and Jimmy Soul will play Friday night, February 26 in the Alumni Gym- nasium. :By Lance Polya James Daniel Palmer will a:ssum~ the position of Dean of the Center for S-cience and Engineering, begin- ning July 1. He replaces Dean Har- old E. Way who is xetiring at the end 00: this term. Although he is only thirty-five years old, Mr. Palmer comes to Unio:n witli a very impressive backg'J.'ound. He is presently j(}:int Director <lf the School o.f Electrical Engineerin~, Sys- tems Re·seareh Center, and Oklahoma Research Institute at the Univerosity of Oklah<>ma. He also aets as a con- sultant for the McDonnell Aircraft Corporation and Goodman Indu-stries. Palmer Appointment Praised All the department ehairmezt have met Mr. Palmei' 'and are very satisfied with his appointment. Dea:n Lockwood noted that Mr. Palmer has a \contagious en.thusi.asm for <teaeit- ing,\ which he :has preferred to a more lucrative :pooition -in indus:try, His teaching expe.rience, supple- mented by an avid interest, knoWl~ edg-e, and accomplishment in the sci- ences and engineering has made the man aware of the crucial problem'S existing in his field, and of the avail- ability of federal programs and sources of suppol't for science an<l engineering projects. Degrees and Honors The newest member of the Union faculty is a nrutive of Washington, D. C. He received his Bachelors and Masters Degrees in Electrical Engi- nee<ring frl}m the University of Cali- fornia at Berkeley, and earned his Doctor of Phil()sophy in Electr-ical Engineering from the University ()f Oklahoma, with a minm· in !}:hysies and mathematics. He has written extensively for engineering journals, priva.te industry, and the Federal Gov- ernment. SDS AT SKIDMORE The Skidmore Civil Liberties Com· miftee is considering the formation of a chapter of STUDENTS FOR DEMO- CRATIC SOCIETY (SDSJ at Skidmore College. An organization meetins will be held in the near future. Union students are invited to join, and will be notified of the meeting. Among the most professional and hon<>r societies to which Mr. Palmer 1s a member are the New York Acad- emy of Science, Sig1na Xi, and the American Society fol' Engineering Educati'On. He is also listed in Ameri- can Men of Scienee, and in Who's Who in the South and Southwest. Union Will Honor War Secretary Robert Patterson The late Robert Porte1• Patterson class of 1912, who was Secretary of War under Pl·esident Truman will be honored at Founders• Day, ' Friday, February 25, at 11 :30 A.M. in Me- morial Chapel Founders\ Day will occur on February 25 this year. The regu- lar class schedule will continue through the 10 :30 ho11r on Friday February 25, and in the afternoon: Courses that meet at 11 :30 on Friday will meet at the 11:30 hour on Thursday, February 24. Mr. Manfred Jonas, Associart;e Pro- fe.ssor ~f Histot:y at Union College, w11l dehver a biographical paper on Judge Patterson on the 171st anni- versary of the founding of Union. Guest speaker Louis Morton, Pro- fessor of Hist<>ry at DaTtmouth Col- lege, will also give a speech on \His- tory, Historians, and Foreign Pol- icy.\ Patterson, a native of Glens Falls, N. Y., wa.s a member of Phi Beta Kappa at Union before receiving his law degree with honors at Harvard in 1915. Military and Legal Achievements Pattffi·.son first served his country with the American Expeditionary Forces in Fvance, where, as an infan- try officer, he won tne Distinguished Service Cross for heroism in action. After the war, Pa-tterson practiced Continued on Page 5, Col. 2

'. 2 TriYia: Who Shot 01!9 Cock Robin? Healizin•r the cultuml interests of Union Col- lege stude'i';ts, Concordiensis has plannt:d a trivia bowl, to be held in March. The twenty questions printed below shoul_d be an.:;wered and :;ubmittct! to the Comonly mailbox in the Studwt Actidties Office. Answer~ to ten 1•f the twenty que;:;ti~n;:; will appear sca~tered throughout next weeks horre1!duus pron~ 1s_sue. Students ma~· work together (smce there 1s httle way we can ·stop them) but only one name may he affixed to each -answet· list. The Cuncot·dy will publish qLteotiun;:; for ihr~e weeks. At that time the five h1g-hest scorers Will become finalists fu1· the l\IARCH TRIVIA BOWL. During the Bowl, a n_anatur. wiH Pl;lSC <!l~es­ tions to each of the finahst:o. After a given tune limit. the triviPst with the highest score (ob\·i- ousl~;) wins. . . The bowl will be open to the publtc, who Will ,;upply trivia questions. ThP proceedings wi11 be carded live on WRCC. :;: * I. In what television series did 'Batman's' Adam West star in the early sixties? '' Who played the part of Sam in the 'Richard Diamoml' tele\·ision series? ... Who played 'Legs Diamond' in the movie of the same name'! .1, \Vhu did the Borax <'\illlliPITial:< in \Death \'alle~r Days?\ ;;, Who \\'ere the two actresses who played Lois Lane on the Superman T.V. series? 1;. \Vho was th<' ~pnnsnt· of thP \Robin Hnorl\ . ? senes . 7. In what city was Bruno Sammartino born? 8. On what show was Poison Zumac the Yil!ian '? !l. Who were the two actors who played the Lone Ranger on the T.V. series~ 10. Who sponsored Science Fiction theater? 11. How many PGA tournaments have been won so far by Arnold Palmer? What was Flubbadub'.::; favorite food? 1!1. Name two presidents who died on the fourth of July? 14. In the movie \All The King's Men\ who played Adam Stanton, the man who killed Willie Stark'? 1 ii. Who played Clarabelle'! lti. Who played Gillis, Riley's next doot· neigh- bor? 17. What were James Cagney's la,;t words in the movie \White Heat\? !R. Who played Cochise in the seriPs \Broken Arrow\? 19. Who played \The Riflem::m's\ son? :20. Who played \Hamar of the Jungle?\ Friday, February 1 8, 1966 ~eace Corps: A/ga1tistan AndAltruism Considered By Lawrence R. Spivack The fascination of the Peace Corps lies not in its glorification of international goodmll and a two year deferment frorn the army, bu-t rather in its confrontation of life and in the altt·uistic motivations of its remarkable volunteers. Miss Nancy Holland, a recently returned Peace Corp·s Volunteer .from Afghanistan who has been speaking on the Union campus this past week, has her NWll thoughts on the ~ubjects. \! \\\anted to do something which was significant an<l I wanted to be a part of something unstructured in a very complex society.\ Her pre-departure training consisted of three months of rigorous immersion into the culture, C\ustoms politir~. and lnnguage (lf A fghani:;ta'l. Dul'ing their training period the VoluntrPrs were neVE'!' looked upon as political agents. The n0n- involvt>ment of Peace ·Corps member~ in the pnlit- ical affaks of a country is one of the rrasons they are trusted so implieitly. \Political activism,\ Miss Holland said, \doesn't usually get the tntst of the people.\ Acclimation Pfoblems There are always problems in acclimating one- self to a foreign country and Mi;;s Holland, de- spite her previous experience, found herself to be no exception. Yet the difficulties she found to be annoying were ones of initial involvement. J u.st getting up in the morning and going to wurk seemed no mean feat. \Before your tota.J eommitment to the Peace Corps way of life, buy- ing food and organizing ynm· hou~ehold can even herome problems.\ Never having been an English teacher bl?'forE.' h<'r arrival in Afghanistan, Miss Holland's method of presentation wa:s, by necessity, a dramatic one. She had no past training to either bolster or in- hibit her. In the classroom she had free reign to do whatm·er she wished and from the very be- ginning of her stay in Afghanistan the classes she taught were conducted in English by relating words to objects in the classroom. Her pupils were between the ages of 13 and 25 and by her Jraaaunua ~lullgr 5(.,U DGE HAS .Ju.sl' SWAU .. OWW .SoMeTHING IN HIS DR..Il\lK WHAT IS IT? MEANWHILE THINGS START,. 1-l APP€(\) I N6 f Peace Corpsman, Nancy Holland; worlu;d in Afganistan as a teacher of Englisll. own admission this afforded her considerable flex- ibility in he1· teaching. \Since I think I was one of the most educated people in all the sdool I taught in, no one would ever interfere with what I was doing.\ In Afghanistan there is universal public educa- tion on a theorcticaf level only;. ill practice, it is only the children of the well-to-'do and the elite f who attend school. \'I'he literacy rate,\ Misl! H0l- lancl said, \is ·probably in the neighborhood of ·5%. but there are no a.ctual statistics available.'• Wi.h such a low lite1·acy 1:ate the Peace Corps• nwin task is to supply more tNxchers. L1 th ~ pel'fornHmce of her actual teaching du- r~~. :\1i~s Holland felt that the1·e was more of a :·~1pnc>•t h~tween lhe .students and the faculty in !\unciae; than in Kabal :\fiss Holland liked Kun- da:'\, a smaU town ;@f :~fl,OOO people located a short distance f1:om .the R11ssian border, much mo1:e than th~ W<'Stn·nizecl capital of Kabul. In Kundas she enjoyed being, avvay from the city, because people in the ,pl·ovincc\:3 tenJ to be less westernized, have less i:na~·(,s about what a I'eace Corps Vol- unteer should b2, und are politically naive. ln Kunda~. too, .!Jer reception a.:; a Peace Corps Vol- unteer was Vel').' di·fferent from that which she received in 1\abul. In Kundns it was easier fot· her tl'l act like herself ·because the people had few preconceptions about Americans, whereas in Kabul she was expected to ran into a pattern which the natives could eusily recognize as being typically American. Bad Home Miss Ho'lland, upon her return tD the United Stat~s, had no trouble in readjusting to the tem- per of American life. She note<!: that there are alway.:; areas of discomfort whenever someone abrupUy chang-es environments a:nd yet she felt tlw re-entrr cdsi~ wus overemphasized by some of our more pr·est:gious news magazines and not based on the actual :problems of most returned ' v.Jlunteers. She feels that most Americans are interested in the Peace Corps. \Cer-tainly ·she says; \every- one doesn't share my interest in Afghanistan, but generally I thinlt the A.merican public supports the Peace Corps and a]Jp:reciates the work that it's doing.\ by stewar,t and g:ranger WORK CAMPS: GATEWAY TO EUROPE Campus Calendar Any freshman, sophomm·e or junior, who will be twenty by June lit'st, of this year, may apply for this program. There will be a meeting of all those interested at 7:30, Febmary 22, in =-'illiman Hall. By Carl Rosenstock Mike then proceeded to hitch-hike through Lichtenstein and Austl'ia to the C::ech border, wh-ere his papers ·were processed. He then travelled through Czechoslovakia to the village of Brandov, whe1·~ the camp is located. Brandov is in the northlve&t corner of Czechosloval{:a, in vvha·t was formerly Sudetenland. M·ilte stated that \As rar· as C'ommunist countl'ies go, Czechoslovakia is the most pt·osper- nus. But it's not as prosperous as nny of the Western European na- tions.\ FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18: Film Series, E.E. 22, 7,01) and 9:00 P.M., \Night of the Hunter.\ Basketball: Union vs. Drew Memorial Field' tiouse, 8:00 P.M. ' - Galax) Players, N()tt Memorial, 8:30 P.M. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1 '1: Freshman Wresfltng: Union vs. Hobart, Gymnasium, 2:00 P.AI. Friday, Fel Go M If you h neen fulfil \VOU]d lil1e smoking a summer. I Robert 1 1 did exactly . net to the : 1 but to the rJming. Th fifty differE : · fi na]J.y o bta fork Rand <·over's oveJ ThisN~v thing diffe a. lien en vit·• act, and fo bag-, slept \VOrl!ed tel week. Alth ally mende Also he l'e: rifle, and b Meeteets J>;tchfork I away. Wh~ of visiting garages or deal of so« peo.vle but Thu.rber, tally on hi: to faU bacl to attend'- , away. Yet, go skinny< hole, or he the bunklH hands pick guitar. Fo :300 foot cl ened shute went fishin Yet still, hands, ofte to himself ' · monotony. able to d1•if pruotical, ' seen readh h:ad secret}; or sketch. that our st to hide his • ration in a 1·anch hand the one wi five, is the ~ cmvboy. When ot tady this I tofrth that hammet·he~: but he had be1· plans ing as a d· BoC)k R 191 B:l' RUSSIA TURNIN der Kerf: Sloan, & Alexande four. He briefly con· Over the past few swnmers, several l. 'nion Collt'ge students haw spent time working in various European cuuntrie>'~. .\ 111 on g the countries im·o!Yed wet e Switzerland, Czechu- ,.;lovakia, Turkey, East Gl'nuany anJ Yugoslavia. :\like Beilu11itz, <L julllor, ::-[lt'llt ia,;t .::;ummeJ iu buth ::iwttzerlawl anJ \ 'zecltsluvakiu.. The fir.::;t plaee that he worke1l was in ~ sm;,tJI vill;!ge in Switztrland, named Andiu.st. The town is an i~olateJ, mountain vil- lage, which can be reached by '•niy une small road. The work he had to do was construct a road, about five hundred meters long, with only picks, shovels and no modern machinery. Probably the most inter- esting experience that he had, was a mountain climbing incident. He planned to go mountain climbing, one day, but the person who was supposed to bring him clothes and long· pants neglected to ,show up. So, the intrepid mountain climber started np the mountain with shorts and sneakers on. He found that as he got higher, the temperature reached about eighty-five degrees. While they continued up the mountain, it began to rain. As they ·climber higher, the 1·ain fell harded and they were forced At the camp, he worked about eight hours a day, for six days, and ate four meals a dar. At 11ight, he would go to a neighborhood \.Pub\ and speak with the townspeO<ple of the area. His work consisted of st1·ipping bark from trees. W~estling: Union vs. Hobart, Gymna\S• •urn. 2'·45 P.M. 1 ., Russia. In Mike- Berlowitz poses on Central Europe's oldest bridge, in Prague, Czechoslo· vakia, about sixty miles from his Work Camp. With him are Syrian and Czeclt colleagues of the camp. to take shelter under a bridge. When the rain subsided, they continued up the mountain. Upon reaching the snowline, Mike, still in shorts and sneakers, began to notice that it was getting very cold. As the party was descending the mountain, they were caught in another storm and this tirne were fo·rced to take cover in a cr>w shelter after chasing the cows out. When the rain finally stopped, just before dark, they ran back to the village. Mike found the village of Andiast not only isoh1ted, but fairly primitive. Although there was electricity, there was no running wat- er. One Thursday, Mike received no- tice that by the following Monday he would have to be in a camp in Czecho- slovakia 135 ERIE BOULEVARD A fe-w times -during his stay in the country, he traveled to Prague. He found that the city, for the most part, has been rebuilt since the war. But, because they are short of m~mey, there are still places which have not been entirely rebuilt. He stated the most fascinating part of his -summer was tbe ()pportunity to see communism in .ac:ti(}n. He found that it was a better system than American papers would have us be- lieve, and not so good as the com- munists would have u.s believe. He remembered going to a place in Prague, where there was formerly a large statue of Stalin. Now the s·teps led up to a pedestal. but there was no statue there MONDAY, fEBRUARY 21: The Moving Finger, NormCJ Millay, 8:00 P.M., H.H.S.l. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY '22: Student Council Meeting, Hale House Student Lounge, 7:30 P.M. Overseas Work Camp Information Mo&f· ing, 7.30 P.M., Slllimoo Hall. IVEDNESDA. Y, FEBRUARY ~3: Freshm-an Swfmmlngr Union vs. Trinity, Gymnasium, 3:00 P.M. Swimmlngr Union vs. Trinity, Gymnas- ium, 3:45 P.M. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24: Freshman BCJskelball: Union vs. R.P.I., Memorial Field House, ci:IS P.M. Basketball• Union vs. ·R.P.I., Memorial Flold House, 8:00 P.M. FRIDAY, FE:BRUARY 25: film Series, E.E. 22, 7:00 and 9,[)0 P.M., \'Amalchan.\ Founders' Day, Memoricl Chopel, 11:30 P.M. Winler Weekend Dance, Alumni Gym· nasium, 8:30 P.M. Let the Ia ger freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere Boulevard Bowl RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. 32 AMF BOWLTNG LANES Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER -Open 24 Hours Daily- - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS C<1tering To Small &. Lorge Parties .._ _____ F_o_r.re_s_e .. rv_a .. ti .. on•s•p•h•o•n•e•F•R•4··-8·9-17 ______ ... ! l.__ _______ sN .. A--CK_B_A_R_o_N_P_RIE_M_I_s_Es ______ _, - Try Our Lowenbrat~ On Tap - Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A We~ek fnquently the signific ~hevik r-egi fn this boo \ a history, rom.plete e events. The mos1 ) { \vor:k is its the start i pu1·pose to I have onl:y ord of tha· tt J 1ny countr~ or in whicl In the Wl'ii 'ego' occup · , in recountil of others, ' of himself. Pffacing. F , peJ•son, sin larg-ely an Cr It takes : the pressur borne durin LARGES' Dark Ra

18, 1966 f it is Friday, February~ tl, l966 Go West!' Young Man~ Go West 3 Play Review: Galaxys Pro~vide Uneve,n Farces By Paul Sherwin the elite f , Mis~ Hel- If you have a rural, robust urge tha.t has not neen fulfilled here on Union's Campus. if you would lilte to try something more ma~ly than smoking a Marlbom, then head West for the summer_ Two comedies, Christopher Fry's A Phoenix Too Frequent and N. F. !:lim];}son's A Resounding Tinkle, will be presented by the Galaxy Playe1•s at the Nott Memorial through Saturday. The pro- gram informs us that these works, though seem- ingly unrelated by circumstance or manner, are, in a lm·ger sense, birds of a feather. They are ~aid tu ::;hurc an unmistu:kable adherenee to that W!H~t·able tradition uf English satire, which, de- ~pite it.~ many garbs, ha::; endured miraculously th:·ough time and tide. Yet, somehow the plays themselves trouble us. It is true that both of them make us 'laugh. Ft·y's work is a modernized spoof of an old du·ty joke and Tinkle is a non- ~ellse play :;et in cuHtempurary British suburbia. But, although they are \·ery funny and are cer- ta:uly intended to be so, there is something about llw lw() that makes u~ feel a::; though theil' Jif- ft•l'c!lt'l'S cann0t be ensily ignon~d. No matter lww much the plays owe to u common ancestor they are essentially antithe-:ic:al forms, as remote from one another as Shakespeare from an ani- lllated comic str:p. of'5%. Corps• du- of a in iked Kun- a short uch mo1'e Kundas because Vol- naive. ln Vol- she fot· e had few Kabul which the typically United tern- there are someone she felt by some sand not returned interested s; \every- but pports the that it's 9.oo 8:30 Hobart, B:CJO House n Mo&f· Trinity, R.P.I., Aemorlcl ' 11:30 Gy~n- Robert Thurber, a sophomore philosophy major did exactly that last summet·. He headed West- . not to the sunny biniki-covered California beaches, but to the reserved, majestic mountains of Wy- oming. Thurber, aftev wt·iting to approximately fifty different ·ranches from Texas to Washington, . 1 . finally obtained summer employment on the Pitch- fork Ranch in northern Wyoming; a ranch that t•ovets over 200,000 acres. j This N~w York City-br~d student wanted some- thing different-to be thrown into a completely a.lien en vit·onment in order to see how he· would!'{:!- act, and for three months he lived out of a duffel bag-, slept in a weather beaten bunk house, and \Vorl!ed ten to twelve hours a day, si:x days a week. Although Thurber's duties varied, he basic- ally mended barbed wire fences and stacked hay. Also he !'earned ho·w to driYe a tractor, 'shoot a .J rifle, and butcher a cow. Meeteetse Wyoming, the nearest town ft-om the r•;tchfork Ranch, W~lS approximately twenty miles away. When one arrived there, he had the choice of visiting: one general ::;tore, two cafes, two garages or three bars. There was not a great deal of soda1 life in this town of five· hundred peovle but a great deal of new Iife. 1'hurber, for the first time in his life, was to- tally on his O\\'n. He had no parents or relatives to faU back upon, no di~cotheques or wild parties to attend'-New York City was over 2,000 miles ,\ Phot•nix Too Frequent is located on the Shakespearean side of the last metaphor not be- cause it is very great but because it is good drama. It is a weli-cunstntcted and .finely-written -Jerry S. Rice · away. Yet, if he wanted, the Union student could 1 go skinny dipping in a private, ice cold s-wimming , hole, or he could buy a case of beer, head back to the bunkhouse and listen to one of the ranch hands pick on his banjo or strum his out of .tune p;uitar. For other excitement, Thurber climbed a :wo foot cliff in the Grand Teton Mountain's, op- ened shutes at a rodeo in Cody; Wyoming, and went fishing with chicken wire. Communicati.on breaks down utterly in Simpson's absurdist fal'ce. From left. Charles Losaco, Anne Hastings, and Louise Heinmiller are shown. Yet still, the average cowpoke works with his hands, often sleeps under the open sky and sings io himself and the cattle in order to break the monotony. It is a life where the drifter is still able to d1•ift, where the people still emphasize the pru-tical, where the cowboy does not dare to be seen reading or sketching the scenery. Thurber h:ad secretly slipped off on his own in order to read or sketch. In fact, one o:f' the chief difficulties that om· summer cm\·boy experienced was. trying to hide his art supplies and books of poetry. Edu- . • ration in any form is looked upon with scorn by t·anch hands. The honest, hard working individual, the one who goes to bed at nine and is up at five, is the self-imposed standat·d of the modern cmvboy. When our Union student returned to Schenec- tady this past September, he was minus a front tofrtli that had been knocked out by a too-loose hamm.et·head. He had lost a tooth this summer, but he had experienced a new way of life. Thur- bet· plans to spend the upcoming- summer work- ing as a deckhand on a Great Lakes' vessel. BoC)k Review: -Jerry S. Rice Louise Hemmiller puffs away as \Uncle Ted\ in ~.F. Simpson's zany A RESOUNDING TINKLE. farce, a work primarily concerned with humorous incidents and dialogue appr.opriate to those inci- dents. The characters are simple and clearly de- fined, as is fitting for this kind of play. They are types: Do to the good-hearted, lusty peasant girl who rather shabbily apes her mistress, Dyna- mene the beautiful but inconstant lover who is ruled by the promiscuity of her sex (a character- istic common to the farce), and Chromis the in- nocently buff.oonislt lover. The action, though we would wish more of it and more of it and more complications in it, s:prings quite readily out of the be called sometlting like poetic justi~e. Each of the characters is p::res·ented in primary acti()ns, and thei:J: speeches t~eveal their natures right off' the bat. Then the playright lets his parts miugle and, by the end, there is a whole, though the movement towards that consummation is often perhaps too slow. 'What saves the play in its reception is the dialogue, and, of course, the mar- velous wot~k of the player's. A Verse Play Phoenix is a vErse play in wh<>se texture is blended .a refreshiJJg- combination of over-infh:vted rhetoric and terse, jolting, humorous .lllOdernjsms. The male character, clad in full Roman battle dress can say sonuthing like \Now that it's peace time 'we have pot~el\Y classes,\ o;, \\Vh~t s~igma­ tism has gotten r.nt.o my stars? Thts kmd of deflation is all very amusing; but, moreover, along with action it is es.sential to the budesquely comic. This comedy of language is certainly. U()t wi~. Wit is cleverly intellectual and heads m the dt- rection of eleganc-e. This comedy isa comedy of crudeness aimed not at inflation but deflation, designedly inelegant and sometimes downright vulgar. lt's as th.()ugh you wDuld let a. crowd of clowns into a sacred. cere.rnony, Simpson's A R-esvunding Tinkle is also very funny; but it is not comedy simply because it Js poor theater. The absurd world encountered t.n the play is, at first, extremely laughable. Th1s world is-and is not-our world. The ambiguous way in which we are affected by its results from oux awareness that the familiar and apparently harmonious world is alienated under the impact of incongmous (even abysmal) forces which break up and shatter its coherence. However, as a play, Tiilkle fares poorly in its reception a.fte1: a. few mi.nutes. One tremendously outrag·eous mctdent follows an()ther with no apparent interrelatedness; and what we have is something like a string of jokes which might just as well never end. ·when we read or see a play performed merely in ter1ns of a particular application of the .att!- tude involved in it, we almost always consider 1t as a kind of cramped and meehanica] allegory. A play should define an attitude ( o1· even the ab- seme of an attitude), a basic view, which can have many implications. It defines, if it is good drama, a. sort of strategie point fol' the spirit from which experience of all sorts may be freshly viewed. Simpson's play fails to meet these !!rl- terial altogether. There are good plays and pamt- inos which suggest an absurd world. What makes th~m good (and what makes Tinkle weak) is that as works of art they can function as a unit whose irn.plications ar~ revealed by the resol~tion _of a war of contending force·s. A Resoundmg Tmkle d<X!sn't even try to fulfill this end. 1917 Revolution: Kerensky, Lenin,. and the Bolsheviki By Robe1•t .Stolzberg RUSSIA AND HISTORY'S TURNING POINT- By Alexan- der Kerensky. Illustrated. Du£>ll, Sloan, & Jearce. 1965. Ale:x::mder Kerensky is now eighty- four. He was thirty-six when hE' briefly controlled the govemment of Russia. In this half-century h<' h~5 frequently written nnd lPrturecl ahout the significance of 1917 and thE' Rol- ~hevik regime formed in those years. . In this book, a memoir and not truly \ a history, Kerensky gives his most rom,plete evaluation of those fateful events. The most striking thing- about this { \Vot·k is its honesty. He admits from the start that \it ha:s not been my put·pose to write 'objective history' ... I have only tried to set down my rec- ord of that period in the history of ~ ' my country to which I was a witness or in which I was a participant In the Wl'itings of ·an eyewitness the 'ego' occupies a dominant place. For · , in recounting the feelings and actions of others, he cannot avoid di~cussion of himself. He has no right to be self- Pffacing. He must \Vl'ite in the first pe1•son, since willy-nii!y his story is larg-ely an autobiog-raphy.'' Critical Disapproval It takes a strong 'ego' to withstand the .pressures that Mr. Kerensky has ·> ~ borne during his years of exile. From all sides his actions have been criti- cized by the \might-have-been\ scho'()l of history. Naturally enough, the au• thor· defend~ his actions. Though these explanations seem tinged with rationalization, they are valuable to hoth the !:'l'holar ami the layman, for they give insight into the mental procl'sses \\·hich resulted in the de- t'i5ion~ which made the November re\'olution possibll.'. Most interesting is the fart that Kerensky's strongPst obloquy iS reserved for the members of Geneml Kornilov's abortive attempt to o\·ertht·ow the Provisional Govern- ment in August of 1917. Generally dismissed by Western historians as an unfortunate mistake vdth little im- portance, Kerensky sees it as the \main reason for the defeat of Ru'S· silUJ. dernoct·acy.\ He condemns those who castigate him for blindness to the grw.ving Bolshevik danger. Rectitude There is little reason for arguing this point here, for the question of the rectitude of Mr. Kerensky's de· cisions fifty yeal's ago are nothing rnore than idle speculation, interesting but unproductiYe. Further, the rec- titude, or laek thereof, of those judg- ments in no way impairs the impor- tance of this book. For here we can see to the heart of one of the great figures of Russian history. Here we can see the man who made the de- Re;ale'~ LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN lHE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies- Jewelry- Gifts- Hi Fi Equipment cisions which have had so great an effect, not only upon his own country but on the whole wm·Id. If the author's scruples sometimes leave the histol\ian frustrated (as when he refuses to name any of the members of the secret Masonic lodge tu which he belonged before the Rev- olution and which pwbably played a significun t role in it), he neverthe- le'ss satisfies. Here is a clear picture of a true and devoted Rus- sian nationalist, thrust into high office and overwhelmerl by it. In these eloquent pages he has traced both lds personal struggle and the national struggle that brough't him to pt·om- inance. * )~t • * THE BOLSHEVIKS: THE IN- TELLECTUAL AND POLITI- CAL HISTORY OF THE TRI· UMPH OF COMMUNISM IN RUSSIA. By Adam B. Ulam,. Illustrated. MacMillan. 1965. Adam Ulam, Professor of Go:vem- ment and Research Fellow of the Russian Research Center at Harvard, is admirably qualified to investigate the rise of Bolshevism. He does, h:ow· ever, limit his field mainly to Lenin, for the two came very near to C(Jn• gruence. \The histol'y of the Bolshe· viks and of the Russian Revolution has to be focussed around the life of one man: Vladimir 1Jlyanov-Lenin. M A'M A B IAN C MIS AMERICAN and 11AUAN FOOD COOKED TO ORDER From: Russia and H~slory's Turnins Pbi11t. Now 84, Alexander Kentesky has written of his role in R11ss.ia~s 1917 u:pheaval. Himself the heir of the long revolu- ti-onary tradition, Lenin imparted to Bolshevism and communism not only ideology and tactics but also many of his personal characteristics:' Study in Depth The great strength of this investi- gation is the depth of study and thought that it represents. Mr. TJlmn has not been content to accept the glib generalities which have characterized so much of Western scholarship on Marxism and Communism. He shows a firm gra·sp of the thrca.ds which wound their way through Russian so- . ciety, going back at least to the De- eembrist rebellion of 1825, and sets the stage on which the Bolsheviks played their drama. The author has not attempted to docQment all the mauy facets of Bol- shevik thought, and has, indeed, de- cided to end his work with the death of Lenin in 1924. This was a wise de- cision, for it allowed him enough de- tail on individual points t(} make them considerably clearer than he could haYe without this necessary limita- tion. It is, then, a work both interest- ing and informative, one with great value to any interested student of the movement which grew \from twenty-odd people ... in 1[)03 •.• to a party that seized the government of Russia , •. and now t•ules over one third of mankind and aspires to the mastery of the whole world \YfVt'V'Tf'T'tfi¥tWfiftfti'¥fi'ttT'¥ftTf'fTY1Vi''f'f'Tf'¥i'¥t DEW-ITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Open 11 A.M.. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Tuesdays ond Thursdays Special HOMEMADE SPAGHETTI and MEATBALLS - $1.00 Fine Food and legal Beverages 1957 FOSTER AVENUE 1135 Barrett Street I 18 • 120 JAY STREET ~ + .4. • A 4 • • + + I + A+ ' + ' A ' + 4 t 6 6 ' 6 ' + J. + ' .e. + &- • + • A .6 + ' + •

4 .. Published l<'rldaya during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Scheuet'tau.Y, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: :'>ational Advertising Service, Inc .. College Publishers Rf'presentative 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. Edltonal Offlce, Old Gym, Union College. Publlcation Otrice, Sehe· nectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered In the Sche· nectady Post Office us Sec.:und Class ~!ail :llatter. Subscription 15c a copy: $a a yea!\ delivered :ml'Where in the Unitf'd !\tates :OOE:SIOit BOARI> BAltHY ;-.;J.,;W~IA:-;' ·~; ... . ........ 346-9939 ................................ Euitur-in-Chief JEF'FHEY SPI:CTOH \LG '7:.~·~··:.- J;u..;in•·:--~~ ;\lnnngt·r ~1.\HK K.\~01\\1\1\?. ·r;; .............. )lotnllgin..- !editor ~!Ult\rY K.\;\[Z.\:>; ·.;;.... .. ............... Sl'W,; I::ditot· ltUUEltT :;TOLZUI:H<J 'ti; ......... . ..... l·\ea t ure Editor A;>;D¥ COLD 'G;............ .. . .. ..... ~ports Editor PAl\L :;<HP.RW!::-.; 'G;. .. ............................ L.Iterary Editor HE:-.1 J:Y FEHG l':-<0:-: ';t• . . .. ......... ...................... . .. ........... Faculty .Advisor ,J.l':SlOR BOARD Jtl:-.t·pi: •·-Hill ·,;,:.. ....• \.:-:.H!~tant ~P\\'S Editor Donald· Schwartz •c; .............................................................. Assistant L.lterary Editor RolJ ... ~rt Itosenthal '6';.... .. ........................................... Subscription :\lanager .Ja,l .. J-;•J,in ·,:, :\atimml Advt·rtl~:n!! ?\lan;q.~t_·r St'::'\~L·n ..-\rl\.uff ',j 7 ... . . . . . . . ................ Cll\cula t·lun 1\lanager Kenneth 13ousquet '68 ................................................................ Photography Editor Growing Up When you were in junior high, or in prep school, you had a pretty good idea of what your future would be like. You knew that with a little plugging you would manage through high school, go to college and live comfortably ever after, towing a string of letters after your name. The picture was not particularly inviting and not very interest- ing, especially when throwing snowballs at buses was the main business of the day - but the picture was far from dark, aimless or forboding. Mommy and Daddy would always be around to make you do your homework and pay the bills. You did not realize then, and you may not really realize now, that for a lot of kids life is a struggle with no end in sight. For these, the future only means tomor- row, and the words \when I grow up\ are empty and with- out form. Snowballs are still thrown at buses, but some- thing is missing - something which has stifled the hopes and nullified the aspirations for becoming educated and productive members of society. When a boy passes the ninth or tenth grade, certain that he will never go to col- lege, he has passed the last exit, and cannot turn back or change his mind. His problem is economic, cultural and psychological. He is told that college is too good for him, that it is reserved for \better\ people, and that he should be satisfied with his lot. The motivation he may have de- veloped is drained. He is resigned to a complacent misery. The Poverty Program wants to halt this process of submission to environmental pressure. It is giving some of its money to community organizations that will attempt to extend the outlook and spark the ambition of the under- fed, undereducated and underloved children of this coun- try. It is giving Schenectady a quarter of a million dollars. Responsibility for wisely spending the funds rests on the citizens of this county. The Schenectady Community Action Program will study the plans of numerous groups, and will select for support those which display the most potential. Some faculty and administrators at Union have advanced a proposal for the introduction of disadvantaged youth to the coll~ge environment and the college man. The program would rnvolve the development of close, continu- ous relationships between the Union student and children from a few local schools. The goal would be to bring an awareness of the outside world to the confined and re- stricted youngster, and to combat his fear of being barred ~rom the plea~ures which so many of us enjoy. This is JUSt what .President Johnson ordered, but it is meaningless without manpower. If ever the Union student had an opportunity for com- mit~ent, he has one now. A good turnout at Monday's meetmg, of people who are willing to work, who want to learn,_ and w~o are looking for a valua~le and rewarding experience, will transform these hopes mto reality. Go. Needed Training It h~s. beco~e apparent over the past few decades that the admmistratwn and trustees of Union College are most wary concerning the sexual maturity of the student here. ~hey are l.!ndoubtedly correct in their judgment consider- mg that virtually all students are dispicably prepared in elementary and secondary schools for the challenge of re- straint they must face at Union. . The Rev. Ge_orge ?agn:arir, professor of religious edu- cation at Catholic Umvers1ty of America complained this ~eek that. while a ~hole range of other skills are \cop.- ~muously I~pr:oved_ m the classroom,\ sex is completely 1gn?red. This IS evidently true even at heterogenous insti- tutions. The professor called for \higher professional standards,\ and we agree. The answer to Union's social problems is a direct at- tack (figuratively) right in the classroom. Even though the job -of educatin? about sex requires ' 1 multidiscipline talents and training' we feel the Union professor has the potential. Friday, Feb~uary 18, 1966 Letters To ·rh·e Editor Politics Questioned Tu the Edit()r: Hark! Union's s•talwart sons support the w-ar in Viet Nam. 01' course, the administration proudly publicizes this \enlight- ened\ student response. Dare anyone sus-pect that Unien's his- tory of apathy and med·iocrity \\'Wid be contradicted? Wasn't l\Ir. A.pthecker unnecessarily in- sulted by Cnion students :and f:.tcul.ty members? Didn't the Focus prog1•am co1Iapse? Don't Union's intellectua:Js wow the undcrgrou,nd, as Kenneth Kob- land maintains? Why should l' n ion men oppose Pt•esident Johnson'~ \n1andate\ to conduct an undeclared war? That l\I r. Johnson's discourt- eously refers to men, who sup- pol:\t more vig-orous effot·ts for negotiations as \blind\ and \deaf\ is il'l'elevant. That he disrespectfully disregards the senators, like Morse and Ful- bright, who are critical of this policy, is also irrelevant. That Defense Secretary McNamara has repeatedly contJ.'I3.dicted him- self in estimating the necessity for United States troop commit- ment without consulting the sen- l1te is, again, irrelevant. Relevant Issues But there are many relevant issues. The United States, through Dean Rusk, has vigor- ously championed the right of self-determil1ation for South Viet Nam, is blatant contradiction of the 1954 Geneva Conference which provided for the reunifi- eation of Viet N am by means of free £le.ctions in 1956. In 1956 the United S-tates p·reven.ted free electi-ons because, a's Mr. Eisen- hower :said, 80% of the people would have voted for Ho Chi l\linh. Instead of allowing Ho Chi Minh to lead a united Viet Kam, the U.S. supported the mur- derous Diem regime and, subse- quently, a series of undemocratic military despots. Now an Air Forre g·eneral, whos·e only hero is Hitler, and who publicly ad- mits that -the Saigon government does not represent the majority of the South Vietnamese, i& the unelected spoke:sman of the \freedom\ nf the South Vietn-am- ese. The \free-world allies\ are using weapons and tactics that contradict documents like the U.N. Charter to which we are a signatory. We have bombed \.suspect\ yilJages with napalm bombs and have maimed thou- sands of innocent people. We admit to mass crop destruction, tJ supervising prison camps in which to1t.ure of suspects is .ac- cepted, and to burning down vil- lages from which .some hostile fire has been en.countered. De- spite severe suppression of ad- verse publicity- by the govem- ment, magazines like Life have Edna St. Vincent Millay THE l\'IOVING FINGER has announced tltat Norma Millay, si~ter of Edna St. Vincent Millay, will speak about her sister on February 21. l\1iss Millay wiil also read some of her sister's poetry. Roscoe Lee Browne, a friend of !VI iss :\lillay, will also spealr. Edna St. Vincent Millay, a Vassar graduate, was recognized as one of the country's foremost poets. A romantic, she often wrote sonnets and lyrics. The program will be held in Hale House Student Lounge at 8:00 P.l\1. )}[on day. All members of the college community are in- vited to attend. Mountebanks Tryouts The Mountebanks announce tryouts fm• the spring produc- tion, \The Emperor,\ by Luigi Pirandello. Professor William Meriwether, who will direct the play-, will hear interested stud- ents react on Tuesday, February 22, and on Thursday, Februa1·y 24, beginning at 7:30 P.M. in the Kott Memorial Theatre. Casting is not limited to members of the Mountebanks, and all students are encouraged to try for a part. While it is not -necessary to be present on both nights of tryoutE in order to be cast, anyone inter- ested is urged -to read as mueJ- a,s possible. Copies of the play will be on reserve through Thurs· day, February Q4, at .Shaffer LI- brary. published t•eports of the murder gro\\:ing; the need for de·bate is izes the entit·e policy of the school of nonambulato1y wounded sold·- 1amufest. We can no longer al- 1 in such questions. What possible iers, and h.ave admitted that Am- low President J•ohnson to use a!- excuse is there flir these rooms eri<;an soldiers are treated well most dictatorial power in con- to be locked .at any -time? These ·I• b~· the Viet Gong while U.S. ducting the war, nor can we tol- . facili-ties are supposed to be pro- troops have acknowledged t1u·ow-' erate Mr. McNamal:\a'.s insistence vided for the convenience of our ing· Viet Cong suspects ft•om heli- that the affa-irs of the U.S. goY- guests, and not fo1\ the sole pleas- cop.ters. Yet administration ernment must be kept from the ure of the maids who consider spokesmen ·brazenly quote inter- U.S. populations. It is timE' that them theh· private domain, which national law in condemning we imrestigate the wi·sdom of a is to be locked up when they North Vietnamese interference in commitment for '\vhich we are us !t·ave. ihE:' affa·irs of the \free\ Suuth respons·i-ble as the Germans were Vietnam.t>se. Civil war is not for the Third Reich. The evi- I cannot comprehend why the considered. dence condemning our engage- ladies' rooms should be locked at l'\lany Tt·oops ment in Southeast Asia is ahem- a!l. T.he _fact th~·t the school per- . The United States has troops/. ctant; if we ignor-e .it .we w. HI. n.ot / s1sts . HI tts }Joh:y that students Hl Sout l1 Korea, thE:' Dominican. evade the responsibility for hav- ~nay n.o't enterta:n femal~ guests RepubliC': Western Europe, and I ing condoned it, actiYely or by I m thelr rooms ~s. one thmg, _hut South VIet Nam. We }u 1 Ye com- omission. to deny them mmnnum essen,t1als ndt;ted billions ·of dollars and Sincerely needed for comfol't is going too g many liws to the \protection\ Robert s: Hoffman , 65 far. Is it. t?o much to .a:'k that o:· ~0'uth Viet ~am from i.ts in- Albert Einstein College t~c few, mmmmm nece·s~Itt,es pro- d!gmous populatiOn. We w 1 H not of :Medicine , 69 -nde~ he ;-tsable, ~ven if 1t does tolerate \wa of national Iiber- enta1l the1-r cleanmg a:t frequent ations\ 1·egardless of the dcsj}otic i~tervals? . This is not the fir.st r·e1!.\imes against which they a 1 ·e Comfort Station t1me that these rooms have been d:rected- 'We will risk an a•tomic To tlw Editor: found locked when they were holocaust because President John- My girl and I were watching needed, and even if it was a mis- son and Mr. McNamara have television in Richmond House take, I thin]{ it is time to see come to saYe and protect the this past Sunday afternoon when that th-is el\l'or doe,s nort recur. \free world.\ she asked me to point out the Even if it is too much to ask that .. There .are many prominent men ladies' room. B-oth rooms that some faciHty he provided where who seriously question and op- wel'e suppo-sed to be available we might entertain {)lll' guests on pose our pt•esent :policy in South- were locked, and she had to travel a Sund·ay afternoon, I think it east Asia, men like General to South College in orde.r to find mig·ht s-till be possible to remove Ri-dgeway and Gavin who are so- the needed facility. While this once and for all :the locks on the phisticated in miHtary atl'cirs may in itself .seem a minor point, existing facilities that!; are avail- and who cannot be accused of i-t is .indicative of an inconsider- able to provide for <the health \unimportant mo11al abstractions.\ ate attitude on the part of the and comfort of our friends. Others, like ().ur fo.rmel' arnbas- administration that so charact€r- Dick Beck '67 sador to Russta Gemge Kennan, have indic·ated disagreement with --------------------------- our conduct of the Viet Nam war. Pulitzer Priz·e winner Kennan, a distinguished historian, discred- its the domino thenry and be- lieves that a unified Vie-t Nam would ll()t become a pa·wn of the Chinese or any other Commuu- ·.- ~ ;sts, even if it were led by Ho ~ Chi Minh. M1·. Kennan believes:~- ~ we ough.t to \liquidate\ our com- : ~ /. mittment in Viet Nam as soon [ ' ~ as po.ssible; he suspects that ad- ministration talk of \vie'OOry\ is ~ n()t meaningful, and that the ? · United States cannot, from a lf practical standpoint, achieve its ~nds in Viet Nam. He insists the U.S. is not invincible, that the U.S. c~~;nnot order the political realitties Qf the world. The J ohnsc>n administration has not given adequate demonstration that it is seeking negotiations. It has consistently ruptured com- munications when the advent of negotiation:s seemed imminent. It Is not treason, as many have maintained, to dissent from U.S. poliey, or to accuse the Johnson administration of duplicity in its reports to -the citizenry, of hypo- crisy in its pompous moralizing, and of insinc~rity in its efforts to secut·e negotiations. The ranks of dissenters are _,... ,,_,·....._~ .• ~{EVtlit$ NEW .DORMS ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES for Seniors and Graduates in MECHANICAL, AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, ELECTRICAL, CAMPUS and METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING ENGINEERING MECHANICS APPLIED MATHEMATICS PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSICS INTERVIEWS WEDNESDAY, 'MAR. 2 Pratt& Whitney ~ire raft u DIVISION OF UN•T i=iRC\lAFT CORP. I An Equal Opporlunily ElnPioyer. M & F Appointments should be made in advance through your College Placement Office SPECIALISTS IN ~ ••• POWER FOR·PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT LITILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDLISTRIAl. APPLICATIONS. 'W. .• l The ' . ., 'debate i1 ,., . Las· tournam today, : to Phila the Dre:ll in Phila This . , since H good ch with a eratl av , boosted the six weekend At lY. l)ebatinl \berg an the res States 1 as worl- . fend thE teams o: and Be1 ske. Tl ., Joel ME old Ros resolutic The t• ed by s• ited St: year -th: Univers ilton in The t Newell the toUl ' contest '.r rounds debate 1 enforcer. greater gation ~ .Pol Contir Dean p-hilosop • ing \un• It is no· a matur fore is sponsibi his own a given his time to go t• however bo \rna and reg lege car Still 'li defined • tis,' the the fact achieve is a fr· therefor hlJt is choices selor. I that the relatiom it is al student his ide2 achi~ve althougl completE L.G C..! BAD ST~ fr• 72 s, ~ I En Cook Comi Op Ope Sunde s F

1966 school possible rooms These ·1• be pro- of our pleas- consider they the at per- guests but too ~ that pro- it does fir.st ve been were a mis- to see recur. that .. where on it remove on the e avail- health '67 Friday, February 18, 1966 5 PhiJos Seek .500 Record_. I New S.taff At. WR.UC 'With Next Six Debates -·Class Agent's Gathering Aims at Alumni Funds The Philomatheans have begun thel·l.\ most active semester debate in recent years. Las-t week they ente•red two teams at a ·Columbia University tournament. Five teams witl jour11ey north to McGill, in I\lontreal today, and ~me will head south®--------------- to Philadel:ph.ia for a contest at f d· . the Drexel J.nstitute of Technology OUn 'erS . . . in Philadelphia. This year, for the first t:me Continued front Pag·e 1, Col. 5 1 • since 1962, the deb-aters haYe u law in New York City unci<! 19::!0, · good chance to finis·h the season when he became judge for the with a winning record. The ov- Southern District of New York. erall average of the club will be In 1939, he was appointed judge ~ ; boosted above· the .500 mark if for the U.S. Circuit Court of Ap- the six teams in the fie'd this J'leals for the Second Circui-t. weekend gain vidories. App()inted suecessive'y Ass:st- At McGill's Winter Carnival ant Seeretary of War and 'V.nder Debating Conference, Bob Stolz- Se.cretary of War, Patterson sue- I I Tlu~ 1966 annual alumni program will take place Friday, Febru- 1 ary 25 and Saturday, February 26, with a Class Agents meeting at ' L: ni•:m College. 1 The class agent system is designed to raise alumni funds 0y having certain members of each class solicit their classmates. At present, there arc 600 alumni agents throughout the countr~. One hundred flft:y of them, with their wives, will attend the meetmg. : Address to Alumni · The high point of the meeting will be a speech given by Presi- (lent Har<:Jld C. Martin. He will address the alumni during a banquet on Friday night at Hale House. Dr. Martin will discuss the chang~ ing n·ature of CnioR College, specifically in relation to the new curri~ulum. The alumni fund, which is crucial to the College's financial wei- : f:11·e, i's usrtl for increasing faculty salaries and for student assist- anc,•. Last yeat•, the alumni fund amounted to $166,430 with 42 per . c·ent ·of alumni contributing. Thi::; year the college hopes to accrue . $200;000 from alumni funds. Already $78,000 has been received ; through leadership efforts . I .. berg and Robin Bell wiH argue ceeded· Henry L. Stimson as Sec- 1 . the resolution that the United retary -of War in 1945. :. States has yet to fulfill its role Patterson, an advocate of tlle .. as world leader. They will de- total unity of the armed .forces, ,·I~---------------------.._ , I · fend the affirmative, as will the led a debate culminating with teams of Floyd Rose-Mike Bloom, the formation of the Department· New WRUC Board. Standing I. to r. are: John Morey, Mark Puhm· and Ben Wechsler-:Mike Michal- of Defense. In 194 7 , Judge '?at- sky. Seated are: AlbertBangert,RichardFerguson, Jeffrey Hedquist . ske. The temns of Ted Kreinik- terson retumed to his private ., Joel Messing and lVIar.shall-Har- law practice. Richard Ferguson, former Vice- originate from the station's old Ross wil'l speak ag-ainst the During the P()Stwar years, he ·President of WRUC, was elected Schenectady studios. resolution. was one of the first to reco-gnize President of Uni(m's radio sta- Because of poor reception in Th:e tournamen,t will he a!Jtend~ the new enemy and urged tll1s tion last Monday. He succeeds many dormitories, the new tl\&ns- ed by schools from ·both .the Un- country- to remain mi1i1Jal\ily Albert Nahmias to the post. mitter will asure that WRUC ' ited States and Canada. Last strong. He was an early sup- Ferguson, instrumental iu in- will be the strangest station on : year .the cham}lion was Harva.rd porter {)f what later became the creasing the .sta.tion's sales by the Skidmove dial. A toll-free : University which defeated Ham- North Atlantic Treaty Organi- over ZOO%, announ{!ed WRUC's telephone system between Sara- ilton in the final debate. _z~a~ti~o~n~. ==========~ major expansion plarus, which toga and Schenectady will enable The team of Frank Mauro and - include ill.n investment o.f over contests to be run betwen the two Newell Bacon is paTticipating ~n EDITORSHIP APPLICATIONS $10,000 in new equipment and schools, at no charge to the Skid. the tournament at Dl\exel. T~1s Applications for the positions services. more g·irls. contest is compo$ed of f1ve of Editor-in-Chief and Business In addition to WRUC's new rounds on this year's national Manager of Concordiensis are WRUC--Strongest Station hourly news service, the station debate topic, Resolved: that law available to all students in the The addition of the Skidmore will also become an affiliate of enforcement agendes should have Student Activities Office. T·hose campus will be the focal point the Ame1·ican Bro·adcasting Com- greater freedom in. the inv<;sti- interested must return the com- of WRUC's expang,ion program. pany's radio network in Septem- gation and prosecut10n of cnme. pleted forms to the office 110 later Transmitte1·s will be installed on ber, 1966, with rights to carry For three Generations • fhose Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Mauri~e B. Graubart & Sons Al3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY . Pollock. than Wednesday, February 23, both Skidmore's new and old all ABC news and entertainment at 4:30 P.M. Applicants will be ~c~a=:m~p~u~s:., ~a:_:n~d~a~ll2p~l'O:!g~r~a:m:;· ~i~n~g~w~il!.:l_L:~.P~ro~g~r~am:::_:s~·- ________ J.::==~================~~=====~ notified of interview appoint- ' • Continued from Page 1. Col. 1 Dean Pollock now sees the p-hilosophy of thi's doctrine as hav- • ing \undergone radica.l changes:\ It is now felt that the student 1s a maturing individual, and there- fore is able to assume more re- sponsibility. He is aDle to ~a~e his own choice of courses Wlthm a given framework, able to choose his time to study and even when to go to class: ?-\he _Dean notes, however that 1t lS still necessary 00 \maintain certain structures and regulations\ ·so that the col- lege can function Jlroperly. Still working within the loosely defined doctrine of 'in loco paren- tis,' the college must be aware of the fact that the student does not achieve maturity by the time ~e is a freshman. The student 1s therefore allowed to make choices, hut is guided in. making these choices by an adviser. or co\ln- selor. It is therefore 1mperatJve that the ·school maintain a close relationship with its students, so 1 it is always ready to help the student make his choice.' It is his idea that the students will aehieve success in their demands although they will not attain complete self-rule. L. G. BALFOUR CO. ments . EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 CAREERS IN STEEL -~.­ sETH ,EH£t,t ST El Engineers and Scientists: .. Let's talk ·about a ·career at Boeing ... 50-year leader in aerospace technology Campus Interview$ Friday, March 11 The most effective way to evaluate a com- pany in terms of its potential for dynamic career growth is to examine its past rec- ord, its current status, and its prospects and planning for the future, together with the professional climate it offers for the development of your individual capabilities. ~ I CARL SORENSEN Our representatit•e will be on campus Boeing, which in 1966 completes 50 years of unmatched aircraft innovation and pro· duction, offers you career opportunities as diverse as its extensive and varied l>ack· log. Whether your interests lie in the field of commercial jet airliners of the future or in space-flight technology, you can filld at Boeing an opening which combines prates· sional challenge and long-range stability. , BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS ME[)ALS.- TROPHIES Write ur Gall Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays .5 P.M. • 1 A.M. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE I I I I March 16 to interview undergraduate and graduate candidates for Bethlehem's 1966 Loop Course training program. OPPORTUNITIES are avaiLable for men interested in steel plant operations. sales, research, mining. ac- counting, and other activi- ties. DEGREES required are mechanical, metallurgical, electrical, chemical, indus- trial, civil, mining, and other engineering special- ties; also chemistry, phy- sics, mathematics, business administration, and liberal arts. If y()u would like to discuss your career interest with a Beth.lehem representative, see your placement officer to al\l'ange for an interview appointment. An Equal Opportunity Em.ployer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM STEEL The men of Boeing are today pioneering evolutionary advances in both civilian and military aircraft, as well as in space pro· grams of such historic importance as America's first moon landing. Missiles, space vehicles, gas turbine engines, trans- port helicopters, marine vehicles and l>asic research are other areas of Boeing activity. There's a spot where y()ur talents can mature and grow at Boeing, in research, design, test, manufacturing or administra· tion. The company's position as world leader in jet transportation provides a measure of the calibre of people with whom you would work. In addition, Boeing people work in small groups, where initia· tive and ability get maximum elCposure. Boeing encourages participation in the company-paid Graduate Study Program at leading colleges and universities near company installations. We're looking forward t() meeting engi· neering, mathematics and science seniors and graduate students during our visit to your campus. Make an appointment now at your placement office. Boeing is an equal opportunity employer. I1J Boeing's new short-range 737 jetliner. (2) Variable-sweep wing design for the nation's first supersonic commercia I jet transport. (3) NASA's Apollo/Saturn V will power orbital and deep-space fli~hts. (4) Model of Lunar Orbiter Boeing is building for NASA. (5) Boeing· Vertol 107 transport helicopter shown with Boeing 707 jetliner. Divisions: Commercial Airplane • Military Airplane • Missile & Information Systems • Space • Turbine • Vertol • Also, Boeing Scientific Research Laboratories ' ,. \.

Concordy: Sports- TRIVIA BOWL Page 2 GO WEST Page3 Cagers Nip Stevens; Face Drew Tonight The Cnion College lmsketballl t~:am, hadng won thre.e of f~ve g-ames since intersesswn, tries ior irs sixth win uf the seasu11 tonight, as Drew University in- vades the Field House at 8:00. ~ext week, the Dutchmen travel to Wesleyan on Tuesday, a game whirh will be lJI'oadcast on WRl'C .at 8:10, then return home for a l!ig game> \Yioth J{Pl on ThursdaY. The Uan1et split an oYernight' trip, Tuesda:o> and Yf t'dn~sday, los- ll'lg to I't·att lnstttut~ 111 Brook- lyn 86-7!~ and heatmg Stevpns 1\·A in :iioboken, N. J., 67-64. L.:nion 110W stands 5-12 for the vear >vi th :four games to go, three ;,r them at home. At Pratt, Union ran into a ser- ies of problems, not the !east o.f which \\·as its own erratic play, and fell uchind at half-time, -l:l- ~9. The court at the eavernou~ 1 :lth Regiment At·mot•y, Brook- 13'11, was slipper~·, ~li.rty, and po_or- ly lighted; in a!l<htlDn, arconllllg to the Cnion players, the bas- ket!-\ were lmn•t· than tlw l'egu- btion 10 feet. What Officiating:' The bif).·gest ob~t;:wle, hc>wel'er, Greg Olson hits from foul stripe and ont· 11·hich pt·o1·ed insur- in King's Point contest. nmuntahlP, was thP officiating. There wert• a stagg;e1 ·ing- :l•.:! fouls a mte-:.md-one situation. He calm- •·alled ugainsc l..'nion, while the ly swished both free throws to ice honw te:ttll wa:> 1 vhis.tled down the game. A few moments ear- only 15 timt'\s. As a result, Pratt lier, Ron bad blocked a Stevens shot ''rhich eould have tier! the was uw;. . .udl'd 17 fn•e throws, sror- i ng 011 :!8 of theru. Union t•on- score. It was fitting that Union t S h College's only member of the 1·erlPJ ~ of its }lj attemp \· uc h ld an ach·~\lltap;t• at the foul line Green Beret Spec-ial Forces s ou !lWl\l' t!,- 1 !! .,ffo,.t l'nion'~ :t:!-29 come through in the clutch. Ron fit•ld \<>ul edge. \Vhile a team had purchased hi8 beret in New \ 1 d t York City that afternoon ... and l xpeets !<) be at a < isa van age none too soon! p'aying- a way from home, this l\l'i let· ba\ 1 wn•r w 1 tnl•,;,;,•d sueh Captain Olson (of the basket- f i l hall team, that is, not the Army) a tra·ve:sty as was per orn}e< JY th<> b••o offieials Tuesday mght. was again Union's high scorer In th~ s.:c·otHl half, the Garnet with 19 poi11ts. AI Hrdlicka add- ···mw out in a full !'nurt press ed 1~ and ·had some ~ey assists. \~hirh r·attll'tl Pratt. an•l Cnion 1.\lernck led S~evens wtth_l8, ~ost stagPd -an inspinn~ ,·omehaek, uf them eomllli\\ on a fme JUmp lll'thn~ 10 of it!-1 fir~t l'i :-~hots. shot. . I . .-\;; \h,. tPn minutP mark, Fitz Th~ G~rnet unpt·~~·et!, ~ lelt' 'I\ . .•. 1 1 , Jlttt l:nion ahead ,;]wotmg from the pre\lt>U:; mght, UI nel \ \\ . ' k\ ''3 f 50 f 46c\ St . co,- f\ ,. til\ fir,.;t time Hillt'e ma ·mg- o , or ,c. m- ·'\\'\• \ ~ · 11 4r' \' r ~s D Lhe gw 11 c's opt• 1 !-i 10 g minuh•.s. en~ wail . . .'r on -~ or ,) , e- FI}rtv-fhl! seconds later, Tu.rner sp1~e f:>em.g- much sma:llet· than pil\k~·d up hi,; fifth foul, and Pt·att the1r 1\1\'als Stevens ~ut-rcbound­ hegan to pull away,. to the. tune I ed the Dut~1men, 44-36. ~n con: ot' tht• st<>adily-hlo\l.nng- wlllstlPs trast to P~att gam~, thts co~ . 1 tl· . f t·ees . test was fanly even m that tl1ete \ l'-' l e e . '> ' f u1 ll d U . Ols()n 'fop Scorer were _:.. o s c.a e on mon Gt·eJ',' OI,;on 1<· 1 1 the t.:nion sror- and 20 on Stevens; The .Garnet mg with li points, ~nd captain \:·on the . game w1~h then· foul 1~ 011 Ueesc tt>pped f 1 ve double- lm~ accu1acy, makmg 21 of 29, t'!gm·e senrers with 20, f~r Pratt. wh1le Rte-vf\ns <\onverted only 16 Lt•:-<lie Prict• aclded 19 points and of ~-;. !Swimmers Sink U.R.; Siers Stars By Don Scholl The Unio,n College swimming team extended its undefeated record last Friday in a hard- fought encounter with the Uni- \'e-rsity of Roche-ster then saw its stl·eak terminated the fo!low- ing day hy a powerful Wesleyan squad. Smashing Spectacle An electrifying performance by the. Garnet in the 400 yard freestyle relay, the last event of the meet, earned the Dutchmen their fifth straight victory at the expense of Rochester. The fantastic finale had the specta- tors at Foote Pool in a frenzy of excit€ment as anchor man Dick C()rrigan touched out his Rochester opponent in 3:40.8. Dick Amesbury and Corrigan had finished one-two in the gruelling: 500 yard freestyle just one e\·ent prior to the l'elay and Dick Siers won the backstroke only twl} events before it. Roch- estel''s Jerry Ca·rpenter and Bill Wolman swept the 200 yard breaststJ·oke to cut Union's lead to 44-4:l anrl set the stage for the dramatic finish. Jim Mogal got the team off to a fast start and Siers extended the lead slightly. However, Rochester's well-rested third and fourth men whittled the lead to nothb1g in the next 175 yards. Corrigan came off the last turn and turned for the wall with everything he had left. He withstood th.e Rochester chal- lenge and won by a hair's breath, leaving the crowd emotionally drained. Big Break Union g()t a crucial \break\ in t.he :wo yard butterfly when Ro- chester's LU Sadowski was dis- qualified, thus making Jay Craw- ford the winner in 2:38.2, his fastest time of the year. Dick Amesl>ury \\'on his ninth and tenth consecu•tive individual vic- torie8 and Siers won twice. Jim M()gal, Chris Cassels, and Norm Dovberg made valuable contri- lmtions to the victory. Wesleyan, led by All-American co-captain Sandy Van Kennan, completely ouicl·assed the Dutch- men and swept to a crushing vic- torr, in what was one of the worst d-efeats on a Union team in recent destroved t.:nion with his aggrt'S- Box scorPs: Sl\'(' rebounding. ThP Blut> and UNION ( iold homP dub ·shot 4{j,lo;r; from Ot.on the field on ~0-62, while Union Neidel · k' 3'> Hrdlidc was ·suh,pm· at 10':c • ma mg •- Turner fG 6 b 2 FT S-6 o.o 0-2 0-0 o.o 3-5 o.o 1-3 y·ears. In the course of piling up TP their 74 to 21 advantage, the Car- ~~ dina! Na:tators captured all elev- 4 en first places. They showed .,f 80. l'ra.tt ·IH·lrl a :,-;.;;o re- Url>eli• 1 \'unding edge. Knighr Agaimt ~tevens, tlH' Dutchmen ~:~~: .1 umped t\ a quick 9-2 lead a!HI appt>alt>d hL•a<IPc! for an easy w1n. TOTAl> ;-;till, the :<maliN host& battled PRATT !>:tel< each liml• lJni{)ll threatt•ned !~:;:,. to pull wvur. and at th_c half, t~l~ Ane•ehk, Carm~t hPlcl a prPranous 41-.la Price h d 11 McNamara :•d,·antage. Ol·son, ·w o score Ko•rurak points in the fil·st ninP minutes, r:n ishe<l the half with I :l. Aftet' int('l'lll ission, SteYl'llS rapidly ruught up and, at the 1 ~:30 mark. went ahead, 50-48, on captuin \Vade Men·irk's deuc- l'l\ From tlwn on, neither team led hy mon' than five point,;, and it was ~till an~·body's game go- TOTALS UNION Olson Neidel Hrdlicka Turner Knight Giancola urbelir. Boehm ing into the final minutes of play. TOTALS With onE' lilinute to goo, Union STEVENS held the f)all and the lead (65-63) :uHI were contcn t to retain both. Thus, Stevens was forced to foul tu g-et the IJal!, and with 14 set:- Merrick Millard Steuber Steven& Grippordi Doyle •·nds showing un the clock, Ron Giancola went to the foul line in TOTALS a evidence -of their overall strength a and d-epth .as eight different ~ swimm-er·s captured the nine in- 11 di vidual events. ------ Union's finest showing was made 3 ic 9 F~o ~ by Dic:k Amesbury as he finished 6 6· 11 20 a yard behind Callas in 5:38.5, 14 6 o·B 16 seconds hettt>r than his previous ; ~:~ : ~ best. 5 5-10 15 :19 FG 7 4 I 0 3 23 \FG 8 s 2 I 7 I 24 0·1 2 26-47 FT 5·6 1-1 5·6 2-2 4-7 3-4 0-2 i-1 21-29 FT 2-2 6-9 2·3 1-5 3-3 2-S 16-27 YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 42 8 State St. FR 4-0183 ~============~============~ CLEAN CLOTHES LAST LONGER EXCLUSIVELY ON 0 w~rner Brothers Records ALBANY ARMORY M()N., FEB. 21 AT 8 P.M. lidets 4.50 · 4.- 3.50 · 3. Sale Von Curler Music Schenectady 2 or More S H I R T S •••• 22¢ ea. Sport JACKETS & T ROUSE RS ••• 49¢ ea. Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank I 1 NCAA vs. Intelligence Ry Joe Estryn Union College will not submit an atfi<;Iavit in. ~onn7cti~n with the ruling made by the NCAA comermng partlclpatJ(ln 1n extracurricular activities. The NCAA ruling states that any c~llege .which_ uses the 4.00 point system may award a .scholarship to mcommg fresh- man with a predicted index of 1.6 or better and that the colle~e must withdraw any scholarship if a student is unable to attam a 1.6 index in any year a college. The student may ~e granted the scholarship again only if he has achieved the requned 1.6. \!\CAA Requireml'nt Too High l'mf. Wilfred Ketz, head of the Athletic Department, stated that this .requirement is too high fo.r a school ()f Union's aca- demic standards, and that if a student can maintain his class- ::;tanding, which never exceeds 1.5, his academic position is sat- isfactory for intercollegiate participation. The non-acceptance of the ruling, which was to take effect February 15, 1:966, implies that dissenting colleg-es cannot par- ticipate in regional and national intercollegiate athletic con- tests. Obviously non-compliance ruling will have a far stronger impact on larger colleges like Yale, which fields one of the best s\\·imming teams in the nation, or like Duke, whose bas- ketball team is ranked either fit·st or second in the nation. Thus far the Ivy League Schools, Duke, Hamilton, Wesleyan, Haverford Swarthmore and about 40o/o of the members of the !'l\CAA ha~e refused to retum the necessary affidavits. Mr. Ketz fully agrees to the provision's of the first regula- tion, regarding the initial granting of scholarship funds. He realizes, as do members of the Admissions Department, that a student who has been accepted by Union College and offered a scholarship, should have little troub!e in maintaining a 1:6 index. It is the second part of the rulmg that causes the difficulty. The NCAA ruled that a student must maintain a minimum in- dex of 1.6 to be eligible for participation. in extra-curricular ac- tivities. Thi·s applies to all col'leges and universities who are NCAA members. The problem arises from the relative -difficult_y of obtaining the minimum in(l.ex at various me~ber schools. Is 1t possible to ~om pare, academically, the schools m. t~e Ivy League with tho-se m the Southwest Conference, the ortgmators of the ruling 1 Obviously, to set a minimum index of 1.6 for participation in extra-curricula!' activities seems unfair to those students who are attending 'schools with high academic standards. Mr. Ketz stated, \We are in complete conformity with the ideals of the NCAA legislation, but in the area of the eligibility of students fot· participation in extra-curriculur activities, it is my belief that the faculty of Union College should set its own require- ments.\ At the faculty council meeting of Februa.ry 8, 1966, Dean Lockwood proposed the resolution that the \Faculty Council does not recommend participation in the implementation of the 1.6 rule adopted by the NCAA.\ Following a general discussion, no action was taken on the motion. According to Ketz, the ruling could be used as a legalistic tool for revoking scholarships from students who refused to participate in intercollegiate athletics. This method of forced participation would be particularly important in the case of physical education major'S who take the bulk of their courses with the very coaches whose teams they t•efused to join. Stratton Sparks Win So.ph Jim Stratton paced cellar- dwelliug Dari-Treet to a sweep of third-place Junior Bo()tery . witlr 201, and 224 fo,r a 614 triple this we-€k in the Dutch Classic, Keri. Merchant added fuel to the fire by hitting 526. Top's Bar increased its team lead as it took second-ranked · RU C tluee times. Rich Spring- stead lead the attack with 222- • 574 and moved up behind Bob · Erianne, runner-up in the indi- vidual race wi·th a 17 4 average. League pacesetter Larry Mar- tin and soph Dave Radez helped Teddy K's garner thhxl place in · the team standings by shooting · 2·14-573 and 200-544, respectively. . A\·on Market, led by senior Fred · Sdudt, who had 550, managed to · salYage one match point. Martin now holds ·a nine pine advantage over the pack. Moffett's continued its crescent . by dt·opping three points to Mid- Town, spurred by fl'Qsh John UKane, 213-52:3, and Gary Pt'e- vos t, 212-5-20. ·Matmen Win The freshmen wrestlers down- ed Hudson Valley Community College 17-lG Wednesday after- noon for a 2-1 team record. 123 lbs. J elf Kurziu.s (U.) decisioned Romano (H.V.) 17-9; 130 Ibs. Ft•ank D'Antuano ( U .) decisioned Dicesare (H.V.) 5-0; 137 lbs. Heinemann (H.V.) by forfeit; 145 !Ls. Tom Tripp (U.) decisioned Gerr (H.V.) 10-6; 152 lbs. Df'· ciccone ( H.V.) decisioned Bill Hanley (U.) 10-1; 160 1bs. Dick . Rosenet· (U.) pinned Cionek (1!.V.j 4 min. -26 sec.; 167 lbs. Ken Merz . _(U.) decisioned J'lante (H.Y.) fi-!i; 177 lhs. Hig- gins (H.V.) pinned Blumenthnl •· (U.) 2 miu. :10 sec.; Hwt. Pow- us (H.V.) dt·ci,;ioned Pet{! Ken· yon ( U.) 10-7. I --------------------------------------------- ·! PltESS WITHOUT REST 0 The end of rumple and wrinkle is here announced. Slacks of perm- anently pressed polyester and cotton are now available at this Establishment, in preferred neu· tral colourings. An examination is invited. 6.98 DAVE'S 8'quirt ~b11p 326 STATE STREET FR 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. Till 9 ., ' . \ l. i I. Bat1 w, OJTicia:ls o. of Atnerica today about scril)}ng i'l:ti relationship \-Vonder Woi ''Thes~ re been confit Wayne, spoi \Howev:er has the utrrt two super .. ] justice ment erl reports.\ Neith~r I Woman cou1, ment. cyi·il mis·sioner o1 reported to tend-ing a cc :\Iiss Wo \He's pro] for his turn said \Scar\ tough and 1 er. Robiln, 4 re.ports of the super-b heroine. \ super-heroin \but one -t1\ she's super- Robin sak dark, bubble ed outside a apartment -1 night. \It morning,\ Il a& I walke, crazy loon ' cut of the Bat1 Research Wonder Wm identity, Di: fact rent a Lhe JokeJ: .A Robin, wl this before, him as Bat to him to ·S t.im~ fri~nds The polic asked the \How are that Batina s;ublirne s'll thank you.\ his automol: nn unspecifi Penicill Other cri r cters readi ::tol'ies a:bc meetings i spokesmen Dynamic I Continuec Trivia l.S.G. Social Rolatio1 Musa .Parcrdisl Crematlol'l Tee Drippy Faudh Drippy People Phalax Symbo Title Boy Wondara Monkey Flnge Dopanclng Inc Doacripllon ol letters to til Rulli' Razor Caneordy Mlsl Edltpn Eyegl•

Concotdy Sports TRIVIA BOWL Page2 Cagers Nip Stevens; Face Drew Tonight The l'nion CoUege hasketbal'll team, ha~·ing· ':von thre.e of f\ve •rames stnce mtersf.'SSJOn, trtes -~01' 1ts stxth \\\111 ol the season tonight, as Drew University in- Yades tlw Fie lei House at 8:00. Xext week, the Dutchmen travel to \\'esll•yan on Tuesday, a game whi('h i\' ill he broadcast on \\'!{l'C' at S:llt, tlwn rPtum home for a big g-amP with RPI on I T h m·sda , .. The (ianu~t split an un•might' · trip. Tuesda~· and Wedn~sday, los- mg to Pmtt I nstitut~ 111 ,Brook- lyn S!l-7:~. and beatmg Stevens i·ec'h in Ho hoken, X. J ., ll7 -64.1 l' nion now stands 5-12 for the I year with four games to go, three ;,f them at home. 1 .~t Pratt, L'nion ran into a ser- ies of probll'l115, not the !east of which w:•,; it~ own en·at1c play, and fell behind a-t half-time, .1:1· ~!l. The ('.ourt al the eavernou~ J:Hh RegimE'nt A1·mot·y, Brook- l,yn, was sli:ppet·~·. dirty, and po.or- lv lig-hted; in atldiotion, accordmg t'O the Cnion players, the bas- kt't,; \\'elle lo\\'Pt' than tlH' reg·u- btinn 10 feet. What Officiating~ The hi>!'g\l'>'t. ohstaell', h ,,~·l·wr, i ~reg. O~son ~its from foul stripe and on•· \\·h1ch proYed JBsur-)m 1\mg s Pomt contest. nwuntahlt> wa,; tht• nfficiating.l . . ·l'l ,· ·t·tO'\l'l'l· 11 g· .,,; f'ouls 1 a 1llle-and-one sJtuatwn. He calm- lt..are \\'(. 1 't' a S t 'Mh o)_. • ' h ' nlh•d ugainsc l'n.ion, \\'hile thl' 1 ly swtsht>d both free t rows to l<'e l;ome team wa,; whi:>tled down!' .t!1e. game. A few moments eat·- onlv lf) time 5 . As a result, Pratt Iter, Rot; had blol'ked a ~tevens wa~ awanh·J 17 fn•e thn> 11 -,, S<'t>l'· shot whtch coul.d .have tted, ~he · . .,o f tl , 11 T'nion con- I score. It was ftttmg that UniOn !Swimmers Sink U.R.; Siers Stars By Don Scholl The L'nion College swimming team extender! its undefeated record last Friday in a hard- fought encounter with the Uni- \'ersity of Hoches-ter then saw hs streak terminated the fo:low- ing day by a powerful W <>sleyan ·squad. :-lma:ohing Spectacle An electrifying performance by the. Garnet in the 400 yard freestyle relay, the last event ef the meet, earned the Dutchmen th'<'ir fifth straight victory at the ex)}ense of Rochester. The fantastic finale had the specta- tors at Foote Pool in a frenzy of excitement as anchor man Dick Corrigan touched out his Rodtester opponent in 3:40.8. mgon-oo tll. u . 'ell' 1 b f th n•rtl•d !J uf its IIi aill'l\\]>t~. Such I ,o eg£> s on y n?em er o e I t t tl\ \ fnul .line (,reen Beret Spf'<'la! Forces should an ac ,-an UK<' a • h h . th 1 t I R :nun· t!~: 111 ,.ff~··+ t•ninn'~ :{'2-~!l eome t: roug m. e r u c.1. on Dick Amesbury and Corrigan had finished one-two in the gruelling 50() yard freestyle just one event prior to the t·elay and Dick Sier8 won the !J.ackstroke only two events before it. Roch- ester's Jerry Carpenter and Bill Wolman swept the 200 yard brt>aststroke to cut Union's lead to 44-4:! ancl set the stage for the dramatic finish. Jim Mogal got the team off to a fast start and Siers t:>xtended the lead slightly. However, Rocl1ester's well-rested thi·rd and fourth men whittled the lead to n-othing in the next 175 yarcts. Corrigan came off the last tum and turned for the wall with everything he had left. He withstood the Rochester clutl- lenge and won by a hair's breath, leaving the crowd emotionally I drained. 1 .. ld 1 1 \\'Itt\!. . 1 tuam J had purchased h1s beret m ~ew \1l' gua ec gl'. ~ • ~ '-\ k c·t th t aft I t t I t l i ·advanbge 1 Lor 1 Y a . ernoon ... ant t x 1 we s d 1 l' a u <. ::i ~ t , playing a way from home, tlus 1101 ~~ · 0 ? soon. _ _ · 1 , .. ,,.·tlll\·«t'<l 1 Slll\lt C aptmn Olson (of th<> basket 11 nter ta:- 11e t'l ~., 1 · 1 A ) t l - \ .. 1 • i>\t·fot·n 1 n,j bt· hall team, t 1at ts, not t te rmy a . l'a\\l!S \' a~ I • ·~ ' ,- J • U • ' h • } th<> two o'f!icial,; Tu,·sdar night. ,..,-~,.h· agam. moAnlsH_!,gl'lk scodrdr In tlw second half, the tiarnet w.tt 19 pomts. n.1 tc a 1!- - t · • 1 f'ull <'our·t I>t\ess ed 13 and had some key ass1sts. l'<llll(> 0\1 Ill ' • • 1 . l 18 t which ratt l,•d p1 ·att. anti Cnion :.'1-lernck ed S~evens Wtt 1 , !llos ~tngl'd a.n 111 ,;pinng l'V!_IIl'l.'a'·k,J ~f ~1em <\Oilllll~ \ll a fme JUillp l!l'lhlll!' Ill of It>< IllS\ J;, snots. ·· 10 • . . -\; \tw t••ll m 111 utP mark, F1tz The ti~rnet unpro~·ed ~heir :1. . .•. 1 1 1111 -t l'nion ·thead :>ht~otmg !rom the prevJOLlti mght, UllWI \ \\ l . ' • ' • k' ·>•> f 50 f 4 •r· St' ·- -u-- f't• t!H• fi1\t tlllll' sllll'e m.tlllp;-o>O , or (j,. e\ ' 10 \' 11 • 11 \ 414\' •J• f r;o D t . •. !l 'II: I.\ minutt·~ l'llS wa~ . ,, on ~ .. ot· ,ln. e- llc )!.'<tll\L' ·' '' < ' ,,.., • • • 1• • h II th Fort\·-fin• seconds later, Tunter sp1~e ':'emg muc sma er an · 1 ·d . 1 ·. r· 1 rtl 1 foul ·utd l'ntt the1r nvals, Stevens out-rebound- PH' il' tljl 11 \ . . ' '--·· I D tel '4 36 I hegan to !illll away,, to th~.tunel =. t1e u ,_tmen ... ·•- .. n con= of tlw stPatlilv-hlowlng- whtstlPs trast w I ~att gam~, th1s con f . 1 . . , 1 · • 1 .a,-s ' test was fatrly even 111 that there \ \ I< ll ~ ,-c ' ' )) f' uJ [} I U • Olson Top Scorer 1 ,,·e1·e :...:.. o s ca et on mon Greg 01:-:on lt•d the l' ninn scor-~ a~1d :ZO on Steven:: The .~m·net mg with 1i points, and c-aptatn \~on the game >~t~h then foul ]~on Hec,;e topped five double- llll: accuracy, rnalnng 21 of 29, r:gut·e se 11 rrrs with ~0. f~r p 1 ·att.' wlul<> StevPns <'om·erted only 16 l.l·slie Prit·•: atlt!Pd. l!J I~omts :md of ~i. Big Break Union g()t a crucial \break\ in the :wu yard butterfly when Ro- chester's .C:J Sadowski was dis- qualified, thus making Jay Craw- ford the \It-inner in 2 :<Hl.2, his fastest time of the sear. Dick Amesbury won his ninth and tenth consecuth·e individual vic- tories and Siers won twice. Jim M-ogal, Chris Cassels, and Norm Dovberg mad€ valuable contri- hutions to the dctory. WBsleyan, led Ly Ali-AmeriCJJn co-captain Sandy Van Kennan, completely outcl-assed the Dutch- men and swept to a crushing vic- tory, in what was one of the worst defeats on a Union team in recent ,}estrovet! L Ilion \\\tlh h 1,; aggl es- Box scor!'s: ~in• r~bolltHiillg. TJw Rlut• and UNION (:old hom,• dub shot 1G.~r; ft·om 1 Olson the field on ~0-62, while Union ·I Ne:d.\l 4 f , · k. •>•) Hrdltckc w.a,; suh-pat· ·at ) < • n:_~ ~ng :'-I Tumec 1•! 80. l'ratt lwlrl a ,,._,,() H'· Urbell• ! .. ,unding erlge. Knighr fC 6 2 FT 5·6 o.o 0-2 o.o o.o :l-5 0-0 1-3 years. In the course of piling up TP their 74 to 21 advantage, the Car- :; dina! Natators captured all elev- 4 en f.irst places. They shQwed ,Arrainst :C:t~\·t·ns, tlw I Jutchmen I Ko•o« h • k ( ') J I ( , Boehm .lumped t<~ a. flll!C • .1-- eac a!H : ;, ppeared lw:u!Ptl for an Pasy w1n. I TOTAlS ;-;till tlw ~mallcr ho::;ts battled I PRATT ' . , . I . 1 Ree~e '•aek pach ttllll' L 1110n t ll\ea~Pne< Mi .. e•e t- 11 pull away. and at th_c halt, t~1: I A~ere. ,,k, <;arnet hPI<l a precanous ·11-.1·• Prtte I h , d 11 McNama•o .. cJ,·antagl' 0 ·son, w o scot e K 1 , • · . . l os urc11 p•lint.s in tlw first nnw llllllUtP~, r:ni;;lwtl thP h:t!f with l:l. I TOTALS Aftt>r in trt•m i~sion, S ten•ns ~~~~N 1 a.pidly caug-ht up and, at tlw Neidel 1-l :30 rna rk, went ahead, G0-48, I Hrdlicka nn ca-ptain \Vadl• Merri('k's deuc- TKu~nehc . I nog I t•r. From tlwn on, !Witter team 'Giancola led by nH>l'l' than fin' point~. and Urbell• it \\\US :;till anybody's game go- Boehm ing into the final minutes of play. TOTALS With onl' minutP to go, Union STEVENS held the l>all anrl the lead (65-63) Merrick :111<l were eontent to retain both. ~~~':,':, Thus, Stt'Yl'llS was forced to foul Stevens t,; get the hall, and with 1-1 ::;ec·- Grippordi 1·n<ls showing· on the doek, Hon Doyle 4 4 J 2 5 8 evidence of their overall strength 8 and depth as eight different : swimmers captured the nine in- 1 1 dividual events. ------- Union's finest showing was made 3 i 0 9 F~ 6 ~~ by Dick Amesbury as he finished 6 6 4 7 5 1 ~9 FG 7 4 4 3 1 0 3 I 23 FG a 5 2 I 7 8-11 20 a yard behind Callas in 5:38.5, 14 6·B 1 8 second~ hettet· than his previous 4·8 12 5 • 9 19 best. 5-10 15 0-1 2 28-47 FT 5·6 1-1 5·6 2-2 4-7 3-4 0·2 1·1 21-29 FT 2-2 6-9 2-3 1·5 3-3 2-5 Y'OUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 Giancola \\~enl Lu the foul line in TOTALS 24 F=~==========~~~========~ 16·27 CLEAN CLOTHES LAST LONGER 2 or More S H I R T S •••• 22¢ ea. Sport JACKETS & T R 0 U S E R S ••• 49¢ ea. Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4~5193 Tickets 4.50 . 4 .• 3.50 · 3. Just Arnund the Corner from Mohawk National Bank Sale Van Curler Music Schenectady NCAA vs. Intell.igence By Joe Estryn Union College will not submit an a,ffi~avit in. ~onn~cti~n with the ruling made by the !'\CAA concernmg parbc1pahon 111 extracurricular activities. The NCAA ruling states that any c~llege .which. uses the 4.00· point system may award a Echolat·sh!p to 1ncommg fresh- man with a predicted index of 1.6 or better and that the college must withdraw any schola-1·ship if a student is una:ble to attain a 1.6 index in any year a college. The student may ~e granted the scholarship again only if he has achieved the reqmred 1.6. XCAA Hequirement Too High l'rof. Wilfred Ketz, head of the Athletic Department, stated that this requirement is hm high for a .school _ef pnio_n's aca- dt>mic standards, and that if a student can mamtam hts class- ~tanding, which never exceeds 1.5, his academic position is sat- isfactot·y for intereo!legia te participation. The non-acceptance of the ruling, which was to take effect I•'ebt·uary 15, 1966, implies that dissenting colteges cannot par- ticipate in regional and national intercollegiate athletic con- tests. Obviously non-compliance ruling will have a far stronger impact on larger colleges like Yale, which fields ene of the be'st swimming teams in the nation, or like Duke, whose bas- ketball team is ranked either first or- second in the nation. Thus far the 1\'y League Schools, Duke, Hamil-ton, Wesleyan, Haverford Swarthmot·e and about 40% of the members of the ~CAA ha~e refused to return the necessary affidavits. Mr. Ketz fully agrees to the provision's of the first regula~ tion, regarding the initial granting . of. scholarship funds. He realizes as do members of the Admtsswns Department, that a student' who has been accepted by Union College and offered a scholarship, should have little trouble in maintaining a 1.6 index. It i'S the second part of the ruling tha~ ca~ses th~ ?ifficul~y. The NCAA ruled that a student must mamtam a mmtmum m- dex of 1.6 to be eligible for IJ'articipation in extra-curricular ae- tivities. This applies to all colleges and universities who are :\CAA members. The problem arises from the relative difficult.Y of obtaining the minimum index at various member schools. Is 1t possible to compare, academically, the schools in the Ivy League with those in the Southwest Conference, the originators of the ruling? Obviously, to set a minimum index of 1.6 for participation in extra-curricular activities seems unfair to those students who are attending \Schools with high academic standards. Mr. Ketz 8tated, \We are in complete conformity with the ideals of the NCAA legislation, but in the are:.t of the eligibility of students for patticipation in extra-curriculur activities, it is my belief that the faculty of Union College should set it$ uwn require- ments.\ At the faculty eouncil meeting uf Februm·y 8, 1966, Dean Lockwood proposed the resolution that the \Fa-culty Council does not recommend participation in the implementation of the 1.6 rule adopted by the NCAA.\ Following a g·eneral discussion, no action was taken on the motion. According to Ketz, the ruling could be used as a legalistic tool for revoking scholarships from students who refused to participate in intercollegiate athletics. This method of forced participation would be particularly important in the case of physical education major'S who take the bulk of their courses with the very coaches whose teams ther refused to join. PRESS WITHOUT REST 0 The end of rumple and wrinkle is here announced. Slacks of perm~ anently pressed polyester and cotton are now available at this Establishment, in preferred neu~ tral colourings. An examination is invited. 6.98 DAVE'S ~quirt §http 326 STATE STREET FR 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. Till 9 GO WEST Page 3 Stratton Sparks Win Soph .Jim Stratton paced cellar- · dwel.li.ug Dari-Treet cto a sweep I of third-place Junior Bootery , wiLh 2lll, and ~~4 tor a 614 triple ~his week in the Dutch Classic. Ken Mel'chant added fuel to the tire by hitting 526. Top's Bar increased its team lead as it took second-ranked RUC three times. Rich Spring- J:tead lead the attack with 222- I'[ 574 and moved up behind Bob El'ia-nne, l'UHner-up in the indi- vidual r·are with a 174 average. Leag·ue pace::;etter Larry Mar- ' ' tin and soph Dave Thadez helped Teddy l{'s garne-r third place in the team standings by shooting 214-573 and 200-544, respectiveJy. 1 A\·on Market, led by senior Fred Schadl, who had 550_, managed to B t sah·a:ge Olle match point. Martin a I now holds a nine pine advantage ( over the pack. I Mofi'ett,'s continued. its desc~nt w hy droppmg three pomts to M1d- 1 ~ Town, spurrt>d hy frosh John t .t . ~ O'Kane, 213-52:\, and Gary Pre- vost, 212-G-20. c i I Matmen Win 1 I The freshmen wrestlers down- '·t ed Hudson Valley Community College 17-l!l Wednesday after- , I noon for a 2-1 team record. 12:~ lbs. Jeff Kurzius (U.) deeisionerl · r Romano (H.V.) 17-9; 130 lbs. j Frank D'Antuano ( U.) decisioned Dicesare (H.V.) 5-U; r:n lbs. I I~einemann (H.V.) by forfeit; 145 . t !us. Tom Tripp (U.) decisioned I Gen (H.V.) 10-6; 152 lbs. Dr- ciccone (H. V.) decisioned Bill 11 Hanley ( U.) 10-1; 160 lbs. Dick '.< Rosener (U.) pinned Cionek 11 1' .. (H.V.) 4 min. ~6 sec.; 167 lbs. Ken Merz .. (U .) decisioned I'lante (II.\'.) G-G; 177 Ihs. Big- ! gins (H.V.J pinnrd Blumenthol • r (lJ.) ~ min. 10 Sl'l'.; Hwt. Pow- i t·rs (H.V.) tlt·ci~i<>m•tl Pete Kl'll· I yon (U.) 10-7. J ' f I OJticials of of America < wda~' about J scl''ibing \im t·elatioilship l \Vonder Won \These re] heen confirJ Wayne, spok- \However t h:ts the utmc two super-p just:ce menti \eel retports.\ ~~;>ither B Woman could ment. Cyril missioner of reported to tending a co: :lfiss Wor \He's prob for his turn s<Jid \Scar\ tough and k cr. · Robh1, 4' npm·ts of i the super-hE heroine. \I super-heroine \but one th' she's super-( Robin said dark, bubble- ed outside a upmtment b: night. \It morning,\ R< as I walked crazy loon w cut of the 1 Batn Research I Wonder Won identity, Dia fact rent a the Joker A R(}hin, wh1 this before, him as Batn to him to -sa time friend;~, The policE asked the \How are ~ that Batma1 sublime sm thank y.ou.'' l>is automobi P n u nspecifi~ Penicilli· Other crin ,. cters readil ~tories abo· 1neeting!'! in spokesmen Dynamic L Continued Trivio l.S,G. Toe Social Relolion1 Musa Paradislc Cremailoll Tech Drippy Faucits Drippy Poop!e Pha!ax Symbol Title J!.oy Wonders Monkey Finger Oopancing lndl DoiCripllon of lollors to the Rusty Razor I Concordy lt\latc Edlton Eyeglo

cellar- a sweep Bootery 614 triple Classic. to the its team Spring- 222- Bob the indi- Mar- helped place in shooting veJy. Fred anaged to Martin descent to Mid- John ' P1•e- down- ommunity af:ter- 123 130 Ibs. 137 lbs. 145 lbs. Df'- Bill 1bs. Dick Cionek 167 lbs. lhs. Hig- lum<>nthnl •· Pow- Ken- I •• J ( I '· .j i ·' 'VOL. X.CV- NO. XVII ~. -G-....,,.,.., ___ -_) ~{tn'(tJ<; 't• Batman And Wonder Woman F·ound Working Together In Close Contact On and after Monday, February 28th, all students may ex.change soiled towels for clean ones at the Gym- :'lasium stockroom upon payment of a two-cent fee which will cover the expense of laundering. -----~~. ~-----~------~~------~- .,apJnO S.IaA\OltO..[ dW'nJ\ - OJ1'ieia:ls of the Justice League of Atn.erica declined to comment today about reports alleged-ly de- scribing 1 'itnpropi:ieties\ in the relationship between Batman and \Vonder Woinan. ''These repo:rts have not yet heen confi111ned,\ said Bruce Wayne, spokesman for the JLA .. \Howev:er the. Jus.tlee League lras the utmo.st confidence in the two super .. powerful friends of justice mentioned in tl1e rumor- eel reports.'' Neither Batman nor Woman could be rea<!hed :f.cr ment. Cyi·il Gor~an;. Pj)lice missioner of Gotham City, was reported to be out of town at- lend·[ng a conferencl:'. :\Iiss Woman is a Wond('r \He's probably waiting in line for his turn at Wonder Woman,\ said \Scar\ Robin, a waterfront tough and known police mfm·nh er. Robiln, 47, also co.nfirmed the re.ports of impropriety between the super-hero and the super- heroine. \I don't know about super-heroine anything,\ he said, \but one thing I know is that she's super-duper aftet hours.\ Robin said he had seen a long, dark, bubble-top automobile park- ed outside a plush Joker A venue apartment -building late Monday night. \It ·was reaHy Tuesday morning,\ Robin confirmed, 1 'and a& I walked along I saw this crazy loon with a long cape slip cut of the building.\ Batman Satisfied Research later confirmed that Wonder Woman, under her secret identity, Diane Martin, does !n fact rent a duplex <J,partm.ent m the Joker Avenue. building. Robin who says he knew all. this before, said \I rec(}gnized him as Batman, and walked up to him to .gay hello, We're old- time friends, you know.\ • The police informer sa,1d he asked the ca.ped .erimefightel' \How are you, Batman~ •: and that Batman answered w1th a smblim.e smile, \She's snEer, thank y-.ou.\ . He then g(}t lllfO his automobile ~nd drove off 1:n nn unspecified directi011. Penicillin for Batmall? Other crime movie-type ch~r­ Pcters readily came forth Wlth ::tol'ies a:bout similar cha11ce meetings in the . night. JLA spokesmen admitted that . the Dynamic Luo \was a little · Continued on Page 5, Cot. 6 - Today's Index Trivia l.S.G. Social Relations Alusd .Paradislaca Crematlol'l l'echnlqlia~ Drippy l'audts Drippy People Phalax Symbols Tille Boy WondaH Monk&y Fingernails Oopanclng lndlcm• Doacrlplion of Loaf 1 Letters to tile Al.idltar Ruah• Razor Bladea Coneordy llllstalclll · Edltpn Eyeglasses Page 1-6 ~9 ---3 .«! ~5748 ooOb 6969 Page 841 9-18 3758 65-9785 96 4657 S...:...temlly 9485757 'lB~OA\. Slf )ll llUJl{OJd - 1!'1 !t!O ·!t[<IOSOJ;t[cl )U3S3~daj pue .I:;!Pl!llA SOOJt[Op JO 3Jt! SlU3U!U.B.m 9S3t[l lllU , , '.5U]Uill9JJl lS11I fJ.tlttfl~UA\.1, :rs .to ,~qZ:II At.t'Ba 8 1 Uh\'BP aq) .t.:g., o~atma .,uaas., aq Etuo ut!o :n Wl!l PU'U u~A'BM. liM:, 1 10U Saop MOqaWOS J,)tlUUq P9]llUlldSo.It!)B 9t[l lt!tl) 'lUOt[)Ut! ]t!llO!J'llU aq) U! •uo;snm aq) a)ou osr-. .-.~qJ. '.5Ulill: 91.ll JO S'e9Jt! PU'Bq n,lj[J .zacldn PUt! J]t!t[ J9o\\Ol Gl!) U! SGdJ.I)ii l~lUOZJ.!Otj anqA\ PUt! paJ JjU!)'IlUJOl]'e Gti+ UOdn S1!Jh\p dUOJ.B' SJt{J. ·pv t!O \! .'i!t!!ill: uu~paruv aq1 l'Bt!l sproq q.>;q.'l\ UlS!~!l!Ja JO {OOq.os 'e B! 9.19t{J. ''How Cantp It Is'' Quoths Ke~npt Kent Union Founded Again Today One hundred and fifty years after Union Gol1ege was founded, the administration re- alized that no matter how depressing this would be, it was time to acknowledge Un- ion•s existence {)nce a year. Thus, in 1946, Found()r's Day was founded. Before we di'scuss this in any mote detail, it would be well to remember that the Get·~ man Club was founded in 1927. To put this dat.e in better prospective, I m~ght add that dudng the same year Bailey Hall was erected. Also, the College had 70,000 books in its li- hraJ.'Y or approximately one half of what it has today. A Boob Speaks Out If the reader is awed by my knowledge (}I tl1ese {a~ts, I'm afrajd he is sadly mistakeni I am -s1ttmg at one f)f the desks on the secona flool' of flch.afi'er Library with a book on the hist{)ry of Uni!'m College in front of me. Oh~I see you*re si.lrp~·i~ed that anybody took the trouble to write a history of Union College. Well, I was too, and the more 1 read of it, the more surprised I get. Anyway, like any semi-illiterate boc.b, I am copying trivial facts out of the hook. This may sound bor- ing to you, but this is 1ny assignment for this week, so- y<>u see, I have little. choice. Before I eontinue discussing Founders Day, I should like to voice my objection to the statement affixed to each library desk which reads: \Library hooks left on Ca1Tels are re- moved each evening.\ I don't think it partic- ularly fair to do this to .forgetful students. Th~y shoulJ have a f~w days to remove their books, p.ot a single night. Thus I am start- ing a club sirnilru.• in structm·e and substance to such dubs as the 1 \1 haven;t read a damn thing recently about Vietnam put I can't weru· Continued on. Page 5, Col. 1 I Perry White, editor of the I Daily Planet, has annoWlced that star, mild-mannered repQrter Clark Kent will no longer be \\--riting for the newspaper. · iYI 1'. Kent was .arreste<l the oth- er day for <~indecent exposure\ w:hen a policeman caught him. \disrobing in a pub'ic phone booth,\ Friends of Mr. E:,ent were extremely ~hocked when they heard the ne-ws. Said one, \Golly you'd never expect it from him, he's .so mild-mannered.'' \Nostalgic Tear\ In an interview, Kent stated, with a nostalgic tear in his eye, \It's just not like the old daya; I knew these glass tele- plume bDoths would ruin me some d·ay.\ '['hroughout the interview, K.ent l>:ept mUlllJbling something a.liout the \damn cleaners return- ing the wrong suit.\ Lois Lane, girl wonder and close friend of Kent said, \I DON'T believe it. He was never lil<e tha:t with me. He was al- ways so mild-mannered.\ Kent will pro-ba.bly have to spend two years in a maximum · security prison although the judge may have mercy because he is so \mild..mannered.'' When the police captain suggested to Kent that there would be no chance of escape from the prison Sputne Spouts Ex Cathedra; Quaffs Of Potent Yohi~nbine \unless he could fly,., Kent look- ~d at him and gave him a very mild-mannered, knowing wink, Pen-y (\Don't-call-me-C)lief\!) White stated that the loss of Kent would not hurt the paper too much because \He's never around when there's an t.merg- ency.\ Kent will be repl'aced by a mild-mannered pussy cat. Meanwhile in Metropolis there has been a major outbreak of crime. Keat Enboothed Neigel ·~Sonny\ Spume, D.D., eminent sophist, ta,bula rasa, and author >Of the recent polemic in defense of ·banality, Abqrt Now, spoke at Cpnvocatian on Tuesday. light of recent digs (his own are view after Spume•,s departure, deco1•ated in neo-Hyksos), there .said that the speech was not pre- seems to be no clear evidence sented In the beS!t interests of 1---------------. that King Wadjinose of the the sc:hool, \nasty nasty,\ and <Dr. Spume's presentation, a lucid e~per:tise o'n . the \Auto- . Erotic Image in the Egypti-an Cartouche of Itju During the Lat• ter Half of the Twelft,h: Dymas- ty\ had the entire student body (all 23 of them) and ()ne canal batg~ tn a severe tlu:all of en- nui. Astttte Observatio1ts l<'ourth Dynasty matl'ieulated. n<Ot in good .taste, He then fold- . Preferred Yohimbine ed h~ mauve ~dkerchi~f, pat- ted h1s nose, 1Jl'lcked up h1s ea,r.s, and murmured, \Intellectual.\ Instea.d of .the usual tankal'd of water, Dr. Spume preferred to imbibe yohimbine, a particu;.. . . Gone Forever lc.U·ly. :po-tent aphrodilsiac made 'J.'hus 1t appears -thlilt M-r. Spume, from the fingernails of zebus in beeause of }lis unwarranted. words the northeast corner of Natal ·a.t to the Umon populous, will not the foryj; of the DrakenS'buxg be l.'etalled to the campus for fu- Mountains. ture declaratipns. , Accompanied by a local group Speaking ex cathedra, Spurn~. · (·Seym()ur and the Enzymes-w-ho with intense materiality, rein- hroke aWay f·rom the Pamsi~ af- forced J1is conviction that Shu, · ONE INCH Concordy Poll This issu€ of Concordy is valuable for: 0 Wrapping fish 0 Wrapping the editor in the mouth for making an is- <Bue that's only g()od for wrapping fish 0 Sending to Mars to con- vince them that we're not worth conquering Completely f0uling up the Computer. · ter a pillow fig~ht) providimg god of the .atmosphere (stratos .. background music, Spume sh()W· ~here, too), · was practicing im- Tl!ey asked me to wl'ite art ar- · · 0 ered what f¢w pearls of wi.sdo:m piety Wilen he referred to Ahura ~icle tha.t would take up one inch. - he could on an already enraptured . Mazda as a drag queen. Now that's absolutely absurd be- audience. \The mfnd boggles at It was learned that the recent- ca.use it is impossible: to say any- ly 1 \'\ a\d Grov· e Press· D S d ~bing. in J'ust one in. c. h. H. owever,· When complet!Xl, please de- posit in nearest trash can (not North College). It will arrive at Concordy's office with. the other garbage. the thott!!'h-t of r. ... 1y audacious en- · re \\\'\' · · · · e a e ~ · d s ' · · · d' 'in the space alloted to. me I shall t.e:rp· r1se 1 \ Dr. Spume · sa:id con• was un er pwue s spur1ous e 1- t h . try- to cover ntY t()pic as comnlete- fidently. \If I can sew, Y. QU c® • ors 1 P• · l 'bl 'h \' , sew.\ . Deany's Reactions 'S as poss~ e, even'thoug ·I have Neigel Spu,me. addressing Tueiil- such a shortag-e of space, Now ... day's. convocation. He went on to .indicate that ln. .• Dean Lockhart, in an inter- Oops, there ·goes the inch.

cellar- a sweep Bootery triple Classic. to the its team Spring- 222- '·r Bob the indi- Mar-' ' 1 helped place in shooting pectiveJy. • Fred \/OL. ~c:v- No. XVII B . A d w d w F d atman . n ... · on. er oman : oun · Working Together In Close Contact On and after Monday, February 28th, all students may exchange soiled towels for clean ones at the Gym- .J.asium. stockroom upon payment of a two-cent fee which will cover the expense of laundering. . I i ,._. ! tn i I rs down- 1 t ' after- , l 12:~ · r 130 lbs. 1:n lbs. 145 . i I lbs. Dr- Bill 11 Dick ~· 1 Cionek 1 1', 167 lbs. ecisioned I Hig- l • r Pow- i Kl'n- I OJticial.s of the JusUce League of America decli11ed to cmnment wduy about reports alleged·ly de- sct-ibing \improprieties\ in the relatioilship between Batman and Wonder Woman. \These reports ha\'e not yet heen confirmed,\ said Bruce Wayne, spokesman for the JLA. \However the Jus.tiee League h:ts the utmost confidence in the two super-powerful friends of justice mentioned in the rumcr- ecl reports.\ ~either Batman nor Wonder Woman could he reached f:::,r com- ment. Cyril Gordan, Police Com- missioner of Gotham City, was reported to be out of town at- tending a conferen<'e. :IIiss Woman is a \Vondf'r \He's probablv waiting in line for his turn at Wonder Woman,\ s<Jid \Scar\ Robin, a waterfront ; ' tough and lmovm police mform- cr. Robin, 47, also confirmed the npm·ts l}f impropriety between the super-hero and the super- heroine. \I don't know about super-heroine anything,\ he said, \but one thing I know is that she's super-duper after hours.\ ,. ' f I Robin said he ltad seen a long, dark, bubble-top automobile park- ed outside a plush Joker A venue upm'tment building late Monday night. \It was really Tuesday morning,\ Robin confirmed, \and as I walked along I saw this crazy loon with a long eape slip cut of the building.\ Batman Satisfied Research later confirmed that Wonder W-oman, under bel' secret identity, Diane Martin, does ~n fact rent a duplex apartment m the Joker Avenue building. Robin who says he knew all this before, said \I recognized him as Batman, and walked up to him to .gay hello, We're old- time friends, you know!' _ The police informer said he asked the caped crimefighter \How are you, Batman?': and that Batman answered with a ;;ublime smile, ''She's super, thank y.ou.\ He then got m~o }1is automobile and drove off m :<n unspecified direction. Penicillin for Batman? Other crime movie•type ch~r­ rcters readily c:ame forth w1th ~tories about similar chance 1neeting!'! in the night. JLA ;;pokesmen admitted that . the Dynamic Luo \\·as a httle Continued on Page ~. Col. 6 Today's Index Trlvic l.S,G. S oclal Relalions Musa Paradislaca Cremation Technique~ Drippy Fauclll Drippy People Phalax Symbols Tille IJ.oy Wonders Monl<ey Fingernails Oepancing Indians Ooecriptlon of. Leaf lellors to the Auditor Rusty Razor Blade• Concordy Mlatak.n Edltan Eyeglasoes P\!l• 1-6 ? 69 -3 65748 0006 6969 Page 847 948 3758 65·91.85 96 4657 s-tomlly 9485157 , ,ap1n0 SJ8A\Ol!O.i[ dlUll.)., - ')8.10,\ S)J )1! ~UpjOJd - l!U !UO -!t[dosq;tt'l ~uus.J..ItlllJ puu .~;JPHU.\ snotqnp JO aJl! ~)UJUIIUlJl! 9H.Jtj) ln!I , , ':lU!Ul'D8(:J )HS[ S,)tj:l!I!A\)., )1! JO .,)tj:lll A(.IlN B,U,\11P aql a!{,. Jatma .,uavs,. uq a[uo uuJ lf llllf.J puu .. aa'BA\ 1.a .. t,, lOU s.>op h\Ol{atuos ~tdUUllq pa[.5'unas-.xuw ilql ltnn •ruatnuu tuuonuu ott+ UJ 'UO[SUH! ill!) d)OU QS(ll avtjJ. 'liUJ.i[ eq) 10 sneJu puuq ltJ!lJ.t Jeddn pun J:l1ll! JOMO( Olj) Ul S8djJ)S Jl!)liOZ\.IOtj 9lJtj.\\ puu pal ~unnu.tanu <nn uoun ::ZlldA\P uno.l!J sp.t.r. 'lJV dQ SJ .lf1lJ.i[ Ul!JjJOtUy <llj) )'lltj) SP!Ol! t{-lltl·\\ WSj:>!lJ.IJ JO (OOq.)S 1l SJ 8~91{.L I ''How Ca~np It Is,' Quoths Ketnpt Kent I Perry White, editor of the I Daily Planet, has announced that i star, mild-mannered reporter Clark Kent will no longer be J writing for the newspaper. , Mr. Kent was arrested the oth- 1 er day for \indecent exposure\ I when a poli-ceman caught him 1 \disrobing in a pub'ic phone The dy11amic duo in a dynamic situation. booth.\ Friends of Mr. Kent were extremely shocked when they heard the news. Said one, \Golly you'd never expect it from him, he's so mild-mannered.\ Union Founded Again Today \Nostalgic Tear\ In an interview, Kent stated, with a nostalgic tear in his eye, \It's just not like the One hundred and fifty years after Union College was founded, the administration l'e- alized that no matter how depressing this would he, it was time to acknowledge Un- ion's existence -on,ce a year. Titus, in 1946, Founder's Day wa·s founded. Before we di'scllss this in any more detail, it would be well to remember that the Gera man Club was founded in 1927. To put this date in better prospective, I might 11dd that during the same year Bailey Hall was erected. Also, the College had 70,00() books in its li- brary or approximately one half of w·hat it Oh-I see you're sut-prised that anybody old days; I knew these glass tele- took the trouble to write a hist()ry of Union phone booths would ruin me some College. Well, I was too, and the morel read d·ay.\ Throughout the interview, of it, the mQl·e surprised I get. Anyway, like Kent kept mumbling something any semi-illiterate boob, I am copying trivial about the \damn cleaners return- facts out of the book. This may sound bor- ing the wr<mg suit.\ ing to you, but this is my assignment for this Lois Lane, girl wonder and week, so you see, I have little choice. ·a Before I continue discussing Founders Day, close friend of Kent sal ' \I I should like to voice my objection to the DON'T believe it. He was never statement affixed to each library desk which like that with me. He was at- reads: \Lib1•ary books left on Carrels are re- ways so mild-mannered.\ moved each evening.\ I don't think it partie- Kent will pr()ba.bly have to ularly fair to do this t;Q forgetful students. spend two years in a maximum A Boob Speaks Out They should have a few days to remove their security prison although the If the reader is aw·ed by my knowledge of hooks, not a single nigllt. Thus I am start- judge m·ay have mercy because has today. ~hese facts, I'm afraid.he _is ~sadly mistaken; ing a club similar in stL-ucture and substance he is so \mild-mannered.\ When I am sitting at one of the desks on the second to such dubs as the \1 haven't read a damn the police captain suggested to floor of Schaffer Library with a book on the thing recently about Vietnam but I can't wear Kent that there would be no 1 _h~i--~_o_f __ U_n_i_on __ ~ __ ll_e~g_e_m __ f_r_o_n 1 t._o_f_D_J_e_. ___________________ c_o_n_ti_n_u_e_d_o_n_P __ ag=-e_5~·-C~o_l~._I ________ ~c~h~a~ne~e~o~f-e~s~c~a:pe~f=r~o=m~th:e~p=r~is:o~n! Sputne Spouts Ex Cathedra; Quaffs Of Potent Yohitnbine \unless he could fly,\ Kent look- t>cl at him and gave him a very !nild-mannered, knowing wink. Perry (\Don't-call-me-Chief\!) White stated that the loss of Kent would not hurt the paper too much because \He's ne¥er around when there's an emerg- ency.\ Kent will be replaced by a mild-mannet·ed pussy cat. Meanwhile in Metre>polis there has been a major outbreak of crime. l\e11t Enbootlted N eigel \Sonny\ .Spume, D.D., inent :Sophist, tabula rasa, and author of the recent polemic in defense of banality, Abort Now, sp1>ke at Convocation on Tuesday. light of re-cent digs (his own are view after .Spume's departure, decot•ated in neo-Hyksos), there .said that the spBech was not pre- seems to l>c no clear evidence sented in the best interests of 1---------------. Dr. Spume's pt•esentation, a lucid expertise on the \Auto- Erotic Image in the Egyptian Cartouche of Itju During the Lat- ter Half of the Twelfth Dynas- ty\ had the entire student body (all 23 of them) and one canal l>arge .jn a severe thrall of en- . nui. Neigel Spu,me addressing Tues· day's convocation. Astute Observations A.ccompanied by a local group (.Seyrnour and the Enzymes-who hrolce aWay from the Pansies af- tei' a pill()W fight) providim.g background music, Spume show- . ered what few pearls of wisdom he could on an already enraptured attdience. \The mind boggles at the thought of uy audacious en- :terpr1se,\ Dr. Spume said con- fidently. \If I can sew, you can sew.\ He went on to .indicate that in that King Wadjmose of the the sclwol, \nasty nasty,\ and Fourth Dynasty matriculated. not in good taste. He then fold- Preferl'ed Yohimbine ed hi;! mauve ~,andkerchi~f, pat- ted hts nose, pricked up h1s ears, and murmured, \Intellectual.\ Instead of the usua·l tankard of water, Dr. Spume prefe:rred bo imbibe yohimbine, a particu- larly potent aphrodisiac llW!.de fro.m the fingernails of zebus in the northeast corner of Natal at the foot of the Drakensburg Mountains. Speaking ex cathedra, Spume, Gone Forever Thus it appears thaJt Mr. Spume, because of his unwarranted words to the Union popul()US, will not he recal1ed to the c-ampus for fu- ture declarations. ONE INCH with intense materiality, rein- forced J1is conviction that Shu, god of the atmosphere (stratos- phere, too), was practicing im- They asked me to write an ar- piety wheD J1e referred to Ahura ticle that would take up one inch. Mazda as a drag queen. Now that's absolutely absurd be- It was learned that the recent- cause it i's impossible to say any- ly released Grove Pt-e&s De Sade Ghing in just one inch. However, was under Spwne's spurious edi~ in the spaee alloted to me I shall tor ship. . try to cover my topic as complete- Deany's Reactious ly as possi:ble, even though I have such a sh()rtage of space. Now ... Dean Lockhart, in an inter- Oops, there· goes the iDch. Concordy Poll This issue of Coneordy is valuable for: D D D 0 Wrapping fish Wrapping the editor in the mouth fot· making an is- •sue that's only good for wrapping fish Sending to Mars to con- vince them that we're not worth conquering Completely fouling up the Computer. When completed, please de- posit in nearest trash can (not North College). It will arrive at Concordy's office with the other garbage.

2 Friday, February 2Sr 1 966 Video Varieties BATMAN AND ·ROBIN Eating Can Be Grrrrrreat! 7:00 P.:VI.-Selected Readings from the. Dead Sea Scrolls. A color presentatwn taste- fully done for the low-,~row person. Mar'ston Fenley's stuttermg commel}- tary is aided by background mus1c speCially written .and played by Gerry and the Pacemakers. il:OO 9:30 1\.~1.-Friclny Nif\\ht at th(' ~IoviN;. Th_l' Tham' of <.'awdor. A comrdy- mus1• cal adaptation of W. Shapespeare's play, l\11!-cbeth .. Brode1:ick Crawford makes Jus debut as a smger. !•.JI.-The Understanding of Man. Part 23: Death-amazing new facts. Dr. Ly:me Green outlines his theory sho:mng why a man of eighty is more hkely to be bald than a man of, say, seven- teen. 10:00 P.l\1.-The Strange Affair of Miles Pimm and Wynford Robinson-Me~el.. One of tlw many little known 1~c1de~ts in the losing bid for the pres1dentwl nomination by Chester Arthur. I 0:03 p ~~ -The .Man From F . .E:.E.B.L.E., Chari- .. · emagne Mono daringly bri_ngs_ a blind hermaphroditic dwarf to JU'shce. 11 :Hi P.l\'f.-Tlw To-nig-ht Rhow. H~st Jll:snn C~rr­ ,l,,r h:c' hc·•\l ,1..\:t:r't'd 111 !Jll. ••11 af;ll'l t't ;!~~~ :!! r··· tPd i·:, .~• p:~ir n.f :~urg-1r:a~ _,,,.k>t~' :tP.J r:.:Jin.•: Ill h: . ..; pJ,.a ol· -::··,·ivn<>r'~ l':>l~y n\ thf' l'Pn~nn f0r thP :tuthnr<hiP of Hn Pxpli<•it murnl 111 a Htolt.' , . .,lidot t stat lOll. Suh~t:· tulc• \\':titl'l' :\lcFar.~c· \\'ill t•ntt•rtatn l\hu viu l 'eeuu;, whu with Handy (.2i.1<.ltu.o.:, •• uto.:· .\1~ Trou:s~rs _Arc l·ull (JI ~l>self. Til .. B.titz J.llntly, ~~~--\'. I::tilz - :'11:t\L -r Ha.''z · :\h. 11art7, will aLu appt>:tl'. lime rick Competition 111 h-·· .,.,- -.•h'~ ;,_;;u<• nf till' l'latwl t:rl're w:t~ :~n, . •u!:t't d· :: ····:• p t.\~ ·,·:I .. t.'k:J;g (ltl: l'l'~ah:;·.~ t•J \\·ntl· .. _.n ... i::~ l>·1· !<··~{-: :~h.ut t~~\ tr:I::tt·l::-;·.(lt :! ~n~{.a1~ ·~pn'-· ··:•llc·;.;c i\ \~'' !1'•: tlt-r:t<t l n.L•(l Sta,e. who's real name i::; Union but who we shal.l c!lll ·•George,\ til pl•otPrt thE• gonocl namE> or th1s Ill• \tit uti on. Tht• l'l:'~ulb Wf't'e excellent u:s f~1r a~ num~er~ ;tlJtl quality wn_:-; ~onrerned,_ hut al! are unprmt~ able lwre :tB thus Journal Will not smk to ~he lo>> :-;cunoulous depths that our. re.aders t~mk we han· sunk. In fal't the twn wmnmg entries we1·e blatant obscenities that woulrl htWP f'Ur!ect the pag-e,; of this journal. Prizes of $10,000 and $4.98 are awarded to By Line Batman and Robin were the center of at- tention in yesterday's fes.tivities; Batman wore a grey silk clinging sheath that was highlighted with complementary ac~essories: a blue cotton rape, eggshell blue kid gloves. goid novelty belt and pink rubber undergm- ments. Robin wore green pixie booties, a flru.~­ ilig sunburst yellow cape, and monogrammed red vest with its fashionable boll-wet>vil buttons, The two were: voted the best dre:ssed couple at last year's dance - when they both came dressed in a mauve and chartreuse z·eppe1in (knitted by themselves) -but this year they had to share the honors with Tonto's horse, \Kentosabe who came dressed as a gym instructor. A gay time was had by all. :.vrauy new book's have been p\l!blished recently lihout food. );iuety~11ine ways to serve JeUO by P~imcrose Squint, and Coffee-My Way, by l_fat- fPild C:nblin, are alre11dy in the best seller-s Usts. This Wl'l'k I would like to spend my time rev:iew- i;:L; a t:cw cuok-buok by Thomson Na:yles, the w~rlrl famous explorer -and humanitarian. \:Fin- ger\ N<ly lea, as he is better kno·wn to hi's f'J.'i'~11cis, ;,s un a1:dent ex.plm:er and has just return:ed fl'QJ.ll Ai'ga:nisbn. H:s new book, \How to Cook ~:»n a Candle,\ is a plethora of infonnation on OJ.iie:ntal rooking. Mr. Nayles describes vivid1y how boiled ,penrlcan was prepared for him. The pen;ican was str~ed thro.ugh old Naja~b's ·sock (a restdent of the HU1dt1 Kush) and cool;;ed over a fire of camel$ ~Uilg,. the11 was served: into the. out~~tretched liands of the eag-er starv]ng natives. The author lta.s sup- pHed a substitute recipe for those who: <:~nnot {)lbtain eamel dung but this recipe in no w:ay Ioses the g-lamor of the original. \Screw'' Naylel!,. as he is sometimes knewn by his fdends, ilrvited me to his house where we squatted in his foul stnell- ing ethnic dirt floor dining room, (remihiscent of 'the diseased ridden friendly native's a.bo<les, whom hG met <m his last expedition), and ate ·flu !ok ''l'nP\ NayJ·rc:, a'l hP i~ ~c>mctiml'~ refer_:'ed · , in hi.; f'irdr> of frif''Tdo;, h:1d prep a: red QUJlo-l ,,. th hi\ n•::n h:-tnds in a few minutes. Qt<iluk i:-< •·a~:Jy 111ade by 1\tixiug- Alka-Selt;:c.1 iu ., , ·! ,,f ,,,n,·;,] ;.;n:.tt~ milk, S nzs. of oats,. anti ~:n~ :~1t·: n;; , , ·:er a low flame for three min11 tes. l'ive p11ttr:d\ .. r fir.ely g-rated rats liver and' .a iew •' •. [ \a;;ji,:a added suh.'lunce and fl~vor-ing ~., this •k·Hcacy. Thb i:; suflide11t to serv-e :fh- c ;',,pi<'. A]ka~s. ·itz!·I· m:tkPs a good after dinner drink. After a considerable bout of retching l bid adieu to ''Rag\ Nayles, as he is known to his :few friend~. and sLtggcnH.l. ht.~nll! uvcrcume b;y thb c exotic meal. lt wa;:; au unforgett.abl\! expertence, The l>ook contain$ 728 recipes, a)! very easily prepared. The homemaker should have great iutt eating h!'r way through the book and it should be invaluable to the homemaker who W!lflf> l\ cross new frontiers in the culinary mt. I wish \Coffin\ Nayles, a's he is fondly .called by his deceased friends, good luck in his n~xt EJC- pedition to the Gobi desert. His next boolc 1na!'>· be about desserts. Pardon by little joke \ll~:rtt\' Nayles, as you are often known to yout· >l'ierd fdends. Jmar ni J.1f.J@. O.F..P., W _____ Awo., Schenectarty, anrlo W.H.K., Cnion C oliPg-<' C Jeffrey Answers Your Questions Dear Jeffrey: Or the :\la11's Advisor Deal' Jeffrey: I know I should never tell anyone tlli.s, because if my mothe1· found out she would be furious. She would take the strap to me and call daddy and daddy would spank me and take away my al- lowance. I need my allowance to go to the movies with and to buy candy with. Any\\\ay· I found a boyfl'iend. I'm nineteen years old and my friend's tell me that I am pretty and in- telligent (good friends wouldn't lie, would they?) but this is really my first Jon·. Only he sometimes g~ts angry at me and hits 1ne, hard, and then tries to touch 111e and I feel so bad I could cq. We both like Eecthoven, that's some- thing. Anyway, how do I tell mommy about my frienrl? Dear Anxious, Anxious, V. D. Your new-f ottnd-lovc is a wo~derful thing·, but it should be taken in stride. Bring yoilr friend home and let your parents see him. Perhaps they can advise you. ' * * Dear Jeffrey: Rerentlr my friends and I had an altercu.tion over the following eti- qu~tte problems. What \does a red light mean in China 1 How many spoon& are needPd at a semi-formal banquet? How does the quotation \and all left eo11s of .styrian wavrs, to hydras left alone to ... \ end- De-ar Befuddled: Dear Jeffrey : For the past two months, I have been dating two guys. B()th are ~II great and everything, but, like they come from the lower depth's' d' the social scale, and I reside in the ra~cades of Niskayuna. What can 1 Ql} about it? De-ar P.l\I.T.: P.l\tT .• Niskayuna :\love to a middle-class area like Mont Pleasant or Strong Street. near Jeffrey: I am taking this cour.~e at school where we go out and look at the :atars twice a week. This may not seem bad, but there is this curly-headed fellow who drive:s me to night lab and I have just flipped over him. My prl)>.b]em i~ he ooe1;n't pay any attention to me. What can I do? · Ivy, l>em hy: Queens Provided you (lre not the poisonous type, \Vait until Casseori~Ja amd Orion are In conjunction with the Little Dipper. Tl1en, when the teaelul!' turns her back, attack him. If this doesn't work. consult your horoscope. * Dear Jetl:l.\ey: I'm the top-dog offi<:er of a certain under-dog class at a certaiit uni- versity. Every time I plan an affair it bomhs-poofl No body listen's t~ nu. Nobody listens to me. Nobody listens to me. Furthermore, no one loves n~e. I've asked out every girl in the class and have. graciously attempted to , snuggle up to each and every ohe of them, but the results have been le-ss than favorable. I feel like a deiia.ted punch ball. What should I do?' Sadly, IF you can't read the caption on this cartoon, Co, Two, Hell. * • * Dear Deadhead·~ Deadhead. • Either resign or get a bi.eycle pump. Don't bother trying. L G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 So·nth Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 Dear Jeffrey: The boy next door took some movies of me and II1Y boyfriend in some rather incriminating circumstances. I am only 13 and my boyfriend is .15 and I think that something should be done to stop this boy from showing these movies for profit and deSitroying our reputations. Dear Jeffrey: My boyfriend and I recellitly got pinned. We are very much in lwe, h~wever we have a problem. Hi1:1 neighbor, or to use an old cliche' c•T&e girl next door\ hates me. What should be done? - T&Q Worried Sue .. Dear Sue: Valley Stream To hell with your reputation .. You should demand a. 25% share of tlte profits and cail 346·9959 and invite evet·ybody. Dear T & G: It. shouldn't malce any difference to either of you, unless titat \girl 11e:xt door\ :is in the wrong door when you leave with your boyf1·iend. SENIORS! Research Internship opel). to six June graduates who can show ·an over-all undergraduate ave!-\age of B or better, regardless of major field. Start tbls summer at Bucknell University as full-time graduate student, tuition and stipend of $75 weekly paid. continue graduate. work in September while serv:lng as Reselll'ch Intern Exciting and satlsfy.l.ng work !n empirical and ex'Perimental educ~-. tional resear'ch, Freedom to select proJects. T :r a v e I. Unbel!evably bl·ight future :for bright pimple, Write for furtb.er l:Q:Corma.tion,: Dt. Allen B .. Karstetter :Bureau of Ressarlib · Dept. of Public Instruction Room 254 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-~870 FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits rind Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on·, Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. j. ···01 6-1763 '---------------• 4 , , 4 ' 4 a 4 f 6 t A 4 • + A A 4 A 4 4 A a HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STI~EET S~henectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TRAVEL -· · CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL • CHARTER BUS Friday, Febr Have you Stamp's or l Stamps !yin hns comc to PT.nmE>nt Ln! Art Be j This \Veek' in with la'st and enter tb 1. On the o JlJ:lll(:S P _, \\'he) pia 1. \Yho h.,: \· \\'Jt,, 1\':t• n. Who pb '· \\'h, .pla !'how~ H. Wlw h•·•: 9. Who pia, J!l. Who pla 11. w,hn pla 12. Whr) pia in tl1c 1! t:L Who h\~ 1.t. Who .op,1 I 3. '\Vhat ''' 16. Who pla: 17. Who pla show? 18. Who pla. 1!), What w sidekick' :.'0. Who pl! Spring? Pleas Rea~ Do you feE Would you Do you th crowd,\ beca Do you chi from chandel Do you kn• WELL Hl:i Enroll now Academy. Extra feat 1-You cat 2-If you carded, 3-After 1 find job 4-LOW 1 Cola bo Rice Kr (Fill c Heroes Aca 007 Bond A Battle Cree Name __ Address -- Hgt. ___ Wg SeJL~- Sex [\\\\ ~ 4 • f ••••••

Be d recently JeUO.by h:y Eat- Uijts. review- a:y.les, .the \J11in- i's f:ri'~1uis, Ll'olll ~:»n a n \l J.ile:ntal d ·penrlcan s strmerl Hilldli aU!lg, llands of :has sup- c~nnot way 'loses as me Slnell- a.boodes, and- ate referred ' Quiio-l: Sdtzc.r iu oats,. ~ntl min11tes. .a iew tl1,1vor-ing :fh' e dinner l bi<l o his :few by thi:; ~sily fur1 it should W11flto t\ -called n~xt EJC- 1na!'>· e '\ll~21t\' ur '\lderd .. nre ~II ·O:f the 1 Cl} :atars fellow prO>.blem •'. amd teadter a.itl uni~ t~ ·Jt!~. n~e. to , eett le-ss in lQve, c•T&e 11e::xt . Friday, February 25, 1.966 3 HAVE YOU ANY THRIFT STAMPS BURIED? Have you any half forgotten T~rift Stamp's or loose Government Savmgs S:tamps lying around the house? It has come to the attention of the Gov- r>rnmE'nt Loan Org-anization that prob- ably hundreds of dollars worth of Thrift stamps and Savings Stamps, bought largely during the excitement of the war period, have been negli- gently set aside althoug·h they are as good as so much money. Look them up. Complete your T.hrift Stamp card and turn it in towat·d the Purchase of Savings Stamps of the 1920 issue. De sure to buy enough Government Sav- ings Stamps of the present issue to cumplo.:te your 1920 Certificates, and exdwnge it fur a Treasury S-aving Ce.tifieate, a,; Stamps of the 1921 is- sue which will he placed on .sale on January 1, cannot be p.asted on this year's card. Do not pem:1it any of th o;;e valuable (;QvtHL.m~nt Securities to become lost or inact.iv~. Artichokes Can Be Hum,orless This week's trivia questions follow-hand them in with la'st week's to the student activities office and enter the Trivia Bowl. 1. On the old Andy's Gang Show what wPre thr ~::Hnt·s ,,f thP two lntlian buy»; ·• Wh,) play.ed 1\lr. l. Mag·ination t 1. \Yho h.:.~ thr l1n.-t of' Juninr Frolir~ '? ·•· Wit\ ll'a:; the i:ucc •·t We,;lt:t'JI goUllUULl]J·: 1;, Who pl:t~·t'd T::;.{ un tlw Annie Oakly sh•w? , _ \\'l1\ .playP<I L·f':·· f'1·::·i~ Ill\ tlw _\!mi<' .\akJ.j,. !'how? H. \\'lw h•·•:-<ted SUJll'l. Circus·: 9. Wbo pla,yed Frankenstein in the 1932 moYie? 10. Who played Captain Video? 11. \\'.h() play:•rl th\ Vi•l•o Tiangt>r'? 12. Whr) played C!e P<>t~nti:tl Prcsidt>ntial a,;~as- i n the 1954 m • •vie \Suddenly\? I::. Who hu~t\d Big· Top? 1-t. \Vho . 0 }l•lll<OJ'\'<1 tht• G:1bby Hayes slww ~ I 3. \Vhat was the name uf the Ci:;co Kid':; hvr,;e 7 16. Who played the Cisco Kid and Pancho? 17. Who played Thomy on the Ozzie and Harriet show? 18. 'Who played Gramps on Lassie? 19. What was the name of Cmsader Rabbit's sidekick? :.'0. Who played Princess Summer-Fall-Winter- Spring? Please Don't Read This Do you feel left out at parties? Would you like to duel with the best of them? Do you think that yott're not in, with the \in crowd,\ because you don't own a cape'! Do you chicken out when the other guys swing from chandeliers'! Do you know how to buckle a swash? WELL HERE'S YOUR BIG CHANCE!!!!!!!!! Enroll now, in the American Home-study Heroes Academy. Extra :features: 1- You can study at home. 2-If you enroll now, you get a genuine, dis- carded, autographed Batman Cape! 3-After graduation, we help our graduates find jobs. -1-LOW TUITION: 3,000 ten-year-old Pepsi- Cola bottle-caps or an equivalent number of Rice Klispiea box-tops. (Fill out our handy order blank) Heroes Academy ( 50c Handling charge) 007 Bond Ave. Battle Creek, Michigan 12548069.7327 Name _______ Age_Birth-date __ Address _ ----------------- --- Hgt. ___ Wgt. __ Eye Color __ Hair Color __ SeL_ Sex Appeal (?)_Super Powers __ _ ---·-·--·----------- Food For Thought Found Tasty One small meal and you rernem.ber things you'\·e ne\'er done, Fantastic? This c:ould be the mn,;t ordinary form of education in the future. Scienti'sts at several university 1·esearch <'enters in the U. S. have been experimenting with the chemical of memory. They repo11t that a form of RNA (ribonucleic acid) carries a memory code for the brain. \Educated Worms\ Earliest experimt nt:; with tlatwol'rH:> ( l'lanaria) ,huwed that nwnwry cuuld be tl an:;funmd fr•>tn ··educated\ 1\ om1s to \uueJucated\ one:; by griitd• ing up the une.; who had lcamed ~ume :·inljJle nr;rnt•tivr·•· and f\·Pding the mi·rH't·d worm:-; l•• thl•ir unschoolt>d felhn\'s. ThP \untraino:d\ ·wormF thcu a.-ted \trained.\ Th!• eo,;prrinwntC'.-s 11111\'Cd on to> rat;, 1~\'.\ f1·om a 1·at that han .]r>arned to \\:nlk a tight rnpn \\\a:; injeeted int-o the h1·ains of othPr 1·ats that then turned in to balancing expert::i. Whafs next? Chanaes In Moral Code Obduu:<ly, !lien. Particularly ;;tudcnt>. F'ir::it uf all, lt>t us cunsidt>t· whPther sur:h methods :ll't' fPallible. Can thPV be easily instituted? What l'hanges in rno1·al ·codes are neces,;ary? that is, will the (;ha11ges be acceptable to tht<O ::>tUU!!IIL L10dies ant! the pe\lple uf America and the WORLD? One at a time. Let us approach this question w~th scientific candor and open-mindednes'S. Ease of institution: Here, all that is needed is the decision. Any school of higher education in America with a student body c:an e1nploy the means and obtain the results that \Vill be out- lined in a few minutes. The cost of these methods is certainly not prohibitive and is within the bud- get of all but the poorest colleges (the Negro colleges, for example). These latter are su1·ely to he pitied· they will be left behind in the great leap forward in education. 500 Dollars The ct~-st? I estimate that even if the meat grinders employed are chromed and electrically powered, the cost for the project will not exceed five hundred dollus initial cost and from then on, the program can continue on penllies. a year absorbed in the electric bill In fact, colleges who do not -tvish to contii\Ue supporting facu!ties of pres.ent size will J:>e ~ble to make a constderable •savmg upo11 the mshtu- tion of the _plan suggested belo·W- The actual teaching reqmred by the plan would absorb only part of the time of half of a. faculty of .P!ese-nt size. The plan does not requtre the acld1t1on of any fulltime employees to- the college. The butcher provided for, can be hired when needed-purely on a pa1't time basis. The machinery is simple. The cost is low; and the savings could be considerable .. We conclude that the methods can be easily instituted. Educated Speculations Next we must consider a public relations ang-le of the program. Will it be -accepted? N-o testing of acceptance is possible until the plan is put into production somewhere; for, as in all fields, prac- tice lags, unufortunately, far behind theory. But let us make some educated speculations. At first glance, it is hard to imagine where complaints. would come from. The simplifying aspeet of thi's method would cut d()wn the number of resident students to a handfulimald1;1~ a pleas- ing change for the better for a I adJnlmstrators. How could they then oppose it? Class size would be reduced to the minimum and teac:hing loads considerably diminished leaving time for relax- ation and research. This fulfill's faculty needs. The fedeta.l government would have its pick for the draft; schooling becomes a matter of swallows instead of years under the suggested plan. The students are freed from boring classes in useless subjects and can begin working their ways to the top, in industry or sales (thus living up to the American Dream and the desires of their par- ents for them to get ahead). Car sale·s will zoom. All students who have saved on tuition and h.ave free time beyond the wildest dreams -of their present day counterparts will take to the r<>ad for enjoyment. What's good for General Motors is good, etc. There seems to he only one source of complaint, i.e., the so.-called rat-'student or intel- lectu:H; but his complaints will be \short-lived\ (see below). After all this discussion, we've ·seen that there is no obstacle to the institution of the plan. It is time to present it. Let us call it the Memory- Arranged -Reudie's-'T'ransf c ned- by-Imbibing- Nu tri- ents Pl-an .... (The remainder of the article, which has been taken from transcripts of' a speech delivered at a recent pre:;s conference, has Leen misr> laced. It is thought to have dealt wlth the grinJjng up and distribution as \educational food\ of .the countries top college intellecuab. The whole -of tit~ plan is not completely clear.) Colonel .Mustar~ Found Alive·! Colonel Mustard entertains his associates ill the quaint little cage he had called home simce 1960. Colonel Cedric Mustard, United human hair. Their story was at pungent odor became. At the States good will ambassador to the time, of course, considered center of the island \?las a very Ataturk Atatm·k Island, had apocrophal. We all kno\v that <leep pit, a thousand.-fold or more been missing from duty since mar.iners at sea for three years deeper and darl~er f::ha.n the oth- July 19-60, until last week it was or more are 1iable to mistake ers, and, suddenl;y, Lacky found discovered he had been mi•ssing seals or possums or even gobis :himself plunging 'llnwittingly for these :five years and a half for females. Scie.ntisbs and geo- down into the slimy- depths. when Planet reporter, Aramus graphers accounted for the re- Reporter Lacky l~n<led at the La.cky (class of '69), found said ports of Cook's seamen b;y rele- bottom of the great hole, his fall Colonel in a dark, very dank cave gating them to the realm of softened by the spongy tissue on- on said island. Reporter Lacky diurnal em is s ion s. However to which he fell. It ren::lirrded him, reported to thi.s reporter th.at he l-ater mariners and explorers nr, informed thl:s repcnter, of had been judiciously following were struck by the fact that th.e qukksand, but he <ll<i not sink. clues given -by a looal radio sta- i:sland was continua:ll;y changing Lacky was very thaolcf'ul for that. tion, ·and had hoped, when enter- its location. They were also Against one of the \'Valls of the ing the cave, to find five hun- struck by ~J;he pecu-liar curly moss cave he noted what a..ppeared to dred dollars in cash supposedly that abounded on its surface. be a solid tract cd l.an«::; To that planted there by disc-jockey, Slimy Depths area he made his way~ careful Gorgon Morgon. Instead, to his Report-er Lacky c:ame, by ac- to avoid falling ;yet; deeper into chagrin, our ·surprised cub found cident as it were, to the island, the cave. That bottl);m he thought Colonel Mustard hopelessly en- fow: weeks ago during the inter- he had fallen on was actually closed in a quaint little cage con- session period. An oarnateur geo- nCYt so! The cave 1v-.:ts yet. deeper structed by the .inhabitants of the grapher and private eye, Lacky than he had inwgine·d, forking island for the .purpose of impris- calculated that the prize offered snake-like down and deeper into oning the hapless Colonel. It is by the radio station w<luld be two veins. Finally,.. a.fter mucoh only now that my mysteri>Ous found at 30 degrees north by travail, Lacky reac~ed the solid- events related to the ease of the southeast, 73 degrees east by ified tract. It was -there that he disappearance of Colonel Mus- southeast. He fle-w at tha.t time found Colonel Musta.rd in a cage! tard -are able to be revealed to to that spfrt and landed on Ata- The ignorant inh•ab:ita.11ts of the the puhlic at large. turk Abturk. No human souls island, a gay lot OL r.evellei\S as Like Hair were around, so li-e caHed loudly are so many native- p.eoples (0, out al8 he combed the hairy sur- that we were so fonuoate in our Working in conjuncti-On with face of the isla.nd hoping to hear wisdom!), had taken the good the government, the Novelty Toy a friendly voice, but wa.s answered Colonel for an -ill-meaning invad- Company ag1:eed in the early only by the gurgling sound which er. Lacky, .an an~a:teU!' linguist, summer of 1960 to allow their emanated from the center of the quickly mastemd th.-e 11ative dia- pi·ime troublP- shooter, Colonel island. The groun-d here was like lect, and conv-inced tbe inbabit- Mustard, to journey to Ataturk no normal earth, and there were ants of the Colonel's good will. Atatutlc. The island is a singu- deep caverns everywhere from They released their pri&oner im- larly gloomy ·spot of land located which grew limbless brown curli- mediately, seemin.gly- h:appy to be usually in the nether regions of cue-like trees. Lacky a'Voided rid .of him. Lacl<y- a..nd Colonel the South Pacific. 18th-century these deep pits carefully. He Mustard were then ]llace·d on the mariners aboard the ships of jotuneyed further on, towards sponge-like depths of the cave. Captain Cook noted one very the center of the islands. The They knew not wily untH the strange characteristic o:f the is- turf here was of a brick-:red hue, obliging great pit h·egr:an to rum- land-the island was said to very mGi:st, and the more he ble, finally eruptiog so-pasmodi- be covered by a dense brown walked towards the i·~land's ceo- moss that looked uncannily like ter, the gretater its characteristic Continued ou P~ge 4 f t t r t y t y y y y f f T Y t ¥ y'f ¥ Y f T f t ¥ f i I I ,, ••••••• ., ... ,,'ti* t DEWITT'S LUIGI'S RESTAURANT t Cafeteria and Tap Room LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Fine Food and Legal Beverages Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.-·· Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1125 BARREm ST. Schenectady Dl 6·9744 118- 120 JAY STREET 1957 FOSTER AVENUE Enjoy Sizzlins Steaks and Chops Visit Our C:o.cktail Bar ·······························0···············

4 Frldcty, .f;ebruory 2..5, 1966 W4r ilntlg Jlantt IF· ! .Inn Letters To The Editor T ed:miques relegate oneself to the han.! o'· ruling idiots currently in }l\wcr. I AM ALIVE!! Can no one c\'6t1 Orgy Again Woke comprehend the basic rwlimvnt~ Every l'riclay night Uni<m :be- WI-:f::'-IEGAN'S FAKE, by Sea- Tu the Editor: of the English languagr? I Alii comes ·a little less morah It is { 'un:-~urdlt·n:-;i:-; ts puhll~ht>U 1-<\'rltla~·B ~ludn.; rhf> school yea!' by the Stu- d 1·' B11·lY uf l'rwm Collt>~l·. Sdw· r•·· · ,, 1 ~:. ~- Y. ~.,·inn.;t,} .·'\dn•rti~ E\\'\ \'! Uffk•·· O!tl G~·m, l~nrnn mus Seaoyce. · I )I'otest a a!'nst th . , . ALIVE, .my Gael, AI.TVE, I te'l t;m.e .t. n stop this. corr.up,tion of t\dl .. ;..;t•. Publication Offiue, Scht•· I'l'I.T I ,g, e urespon-· 1 t t d t F '1 t.TERPOLATION OF DR\\A·MS · 'bl d · 1 t .· · · 1 . ; .. you· \Vretcadly· dn· 1 'ress·in·'l\ our mno('en \· u en ·s. e>.t ow ut~·l::H!~ Pri11 ling CuJnpany, f,IJ:_! - '£1 c:q· e an Irl,e· evan JOUrna Stl ' ' ~,.- \' .. ..~ ·'' ' 1.. r:, ..... rwa.)·. r·:ntr•·•·•l In tlw fklwne•·- .by Frignumd Send. ' t h ·' f Tl D . 1 . ' 1 c moribundly :,yet profow•dlv a 11 :~ student-, LE'ts band toget .. er to 111;.; i{,•,JI!••;-;•·nt·atJYt·. ~.tl.iona.l AdVf:\l· \' .. · .. r • ...; ;~,·t\ht'. In• .. ('ulh·~e l'ul·· \\I\ Post !lffin• \\ t-<e•·on<l Clas~ Ah 't\ ec. nutn~s. 0 le m_y Pl.a~let. deeply a 1 1d 'tl·U'Iy ALIVE!!!. D.'e>. all'>l:sh th€ obseene movies which. , 1 .,, 1 ~la:t•·r. :-<ui!Hcrlptiun 1:.c u I!> a \\ery mmaliviaplurabell On the f~1st ~age of thts ecl1t10n, 110 one hem·\' Tr\S\'e c; 1 ,. ... ,.,.y· m·e ·~h~wn weekly at an orgy 1ll '\I•} .• c \ )'o•(i( <klh······ ·I anywlu \\ I of a IY>ok. Young Mister Daeda- 'l stOl'Y JS prtnte{\ about my al ' . '.,. •· .• •· ' . . . B .,_, :n 1·· .. l\nir···I !'•at.•·<. Ius n-oes 'l winging t 1 ~ ·d d tl D.· tl 1 r I • be d::mmed to the lowest rlel>th~ 'he Elertri~al Engineermg Ulo· . '\' . '- o sue 1 tege ea t. ea 1 1a. am f h. G !' 1 H 1 · 1 • . St• 1 d ts h e been seen to J.:--h· I.· f!•·l•l\• ··'It', :1' \'•· ~_:I) }J.,,Ji:-;.,·1 \\ ,. \\; y I' I herghts It would melt yom· hem\l · ~iivc· vou may tell ' y . ·. o t e real ,eyonc. e· p, o.1 rr.r;. · · en av b -Sinn Feinn QI\a >r h\ • . :\1 tt' .Tl. fl . ml. enemies . oppressed l~rassC\s! I \::\T sbrf.> lustful'y at :passers- y I ~ d th th, h i o no, ls. ~ Ia n~ ag·ram; c ISI\~gard of 'I A.LIVE'\ \I IVE11 .AVVF\ lli'Jon leavinn- the movie. Even • 11 . ·e. oug. ts ~f :'1'£1sbr· Sea- the true. facts of an:y sJt!lat~on,. · _·_· ·' · · · · · ' • ·· ~;me f:t~ltlt htwe been seen mus Seno:~oce, that IS the author, an:cl partrcula1·ly partJCulai' s1tu-, ALI I 1' · / tl · It · so to speak narrator, indeed he ation is collt:mry to tl1e finest: Aleofrihas Nasicr :opeau~g l!lto' Iel ?l'gles. , lS who is telling- the tale that is to JJrinciptes of American journal-. tJm~ t \1 s W l.t us IO'll~1lra~y Rabble be told, are very solemn. And I i~m If William Randolph Hearst; al0\!7ll1S Je . lgl moDa s . o r \1t sei\\'es 1 1.. .• 1 t \f 11· tl' · 1' ' : ~ ~ . ' . 1 ) mon l'ampus. . . 1m 11g1 J· a 1e gn· I ;.;.nd Ius lecherout;; crew reign tr1-: 18 IS .an a_rlul.tresg. And nl1 thE' • umphant at the Planet office, I' A Pmitau Sph1ster speakmg- Inside. Len~han and can only ofr'er my wretched con- ' · Bloom the~· know a h1t of the I o-ratulations Tn1th is truth in 1 li11go. ~· ~pfte of A. J. Ayre, and Pilat~ is ! 'T'he people of Metropolis jn great numbers have re- · -Lamh. Dronrg-e Abu. . ulwiously a tool uf the Nye Com- cently been dismayed by the marked lack of concern for nibdxm . mittee. I am alive, I tell you! tl 1 · tl t f S 11 \11 Tr • •t • b t up they go all of them ~one' The old saying about not believ- le rea Issues on .1e par o ma. Vl e unJversl y s .ea- with the Liffey to the races in a' ing what you read soars trium- ni1c students. glorious ramificated drama with 11hant over the epicene heads of more people than words .to put the gang of Scrippsian henchmen inside them and the whole who each week p1·oduce an out- In our day,. true enough, a lot of young rabble would. wrapped up in a very wt•othle of· >\tanding example. of the f~nest, parade around throwing brickbats at things like poverty, stage directions. i purest exaggeration and disilor- It is a lovesome thinK to seP I titm in the nation. I AM ALIVE!· \ w<:tr, materialism or hypocricy. But most of us had higher Paris wedded to Dublin and all Does no o.ne head I AM ALIVE! standards, and knew what was really important. There their little bastards made' leg·iti- 'To deny this a priori fact is to wasn't any time for trivial politicking and playing at be- Ti~!e~nan he made the book and ing alienated when you had a radio to listen to- especially the people: Sinbad the Sailor and -~ \Vhen the radio was in a car and the car was fitted out Tmbad the Tailor and Jinllad the Jailer and Wl1inbad the W1mler., ·with a well turned srJecimen of femininity filled with SA. d \J' b 1 th N 'I · a F\ ' BTI l' m ac • e aJ er an . I m- letYs Patronize up to the brim. We sure kn.ew what we wanted, and no- bad the FaHer and Binbad the· . Bailer and Pinbad the Pa.iler and!' · b()dy carried any signs to let the whole world know about l\'Iinbad the mailer and' Hinbad I<'RESHl\iAN- it {lither. the Hailer and Rinbad the Railer and Dinbad the Kailer and Vii1bad I It is your duty to support · the Quailer and Linbad 'blle Yai1er college functions and student and Kinbad the Phthai:ler. · publications. Rxmbt Well he packs them all into a ; tr:ain and off they go! f~:seee~-~ YOU- . f1 onnn~nng, And b;v: thts i1me 1t are therefore obhgated to ends w1th a yes I w1ll yes~but I I . . shan't tell you the whole l'e;;;t of 1 J>atromze the advertisers of the insirleTunabout &tory. Per- this, your cDllege paper. \ \ We were mostly drunlc then. Even t:he anarchosynda- ca.list nihilists (rabble) would tie one on at the big week- eJlds, and jump off of balconies or bust a c0uple of hundred windows. These kids today are too high and mighty, tbough, to have a little clean fun. They go to parties to sp1·awl out on the rug and bluster about Vietnam, and pick gm tars and sing all their gay songs. Hudly one of them gets up to turn on the TV unless Huntley Brinkley's got something to say. haps 110-one will eve.r 1•ead tl1e . . ~ book at all,, it. took him lo11g I ,......,. • Y • • • v • • • T,.\ '+ •,. • rrv-rT\-rv-r<r~ , ,....., .., ~ YY\'r • .. , ; ; , • • , , , , • ,......,......~ enough to wnte 1t, ·aye and longer ·~ still to patch it all together. And I -1 . ~:~:lapS they will yes I said will I J .a y J e W· e I r y c .·o· • But the1·e is still some hope, thank heaven and Dr. Seud Nott. The peacenik egghead conspiracy that has entered When after passing tlrrough a this city's hallov;;ed university, and is festering in the cor- mwrow defi.le one suddenlv re~dH;s a height beyond whi<:h rupt slime of a few crooked minds has not penetrated the the w~p part and a rich pros- thick skin of Olll' most \Vortlnvhile students! 1 pect l\es ontsprearl in different 1 direc·tions, it is well to stop for I 1 a m\ment to consider wjitber one : These boys are erecting a splendid d€fense. They get 1 shall tLtrn next. l aging d:runk on \\:cekends and spend most of the other I . Thus Frigmund Seud int;r:~uces • • , ,..,., T • • 1 hrs theory. After prdumnary Ltme glarmg at the l v m a glazed-eyed stupor wh1ch ap-II·esearch he gets a grill on his 315 STATE STREET :IJiamon~ ... Purchased for Your in Belgium and Imported Savings. Eliminate the l Jroaches the <.'alm of divine f'anctity. When the time for material and finn·lly e1·ects his . • . I own system. Seud has such a JUdgment comes and tney are asked who Shepard Strud- feeling for h's subject tl1at he is 1.\i-ck shot in which movie the pristine answer will be on P.repare:J to immerse himself en- lmpor+er and Wholesaler. l ev.ery lip of t:10se .righteous men who saw the deed done t:rely given the chance. ~ t\ tl 1 t , I Bbmtooo Arnofd fisher '50 Ulilr lffif'S over on le a e snow. Hi:; rise to public prominence t- i has !eel to professional jeal<msy ( ••• ,. • , • , , 4 • ., .... , .......................... ~. , • , •• , _.. , .. , , ,. •• 4 • , ... , • , .... , A. , 4 , ... , , , , • , • .... ....] among the profession; he h•as ;.;ray the time never come when the little things which had his share of cutting remarks. ---- .. r:1en chel'ish most will be trod under the hairy flea-bitten Seud probes and penetrates tbe [ t f . . t ll t r R b t d ' hl 1. murkiest depths; not satisfiEd oo o com:rrn m c ec ua 1sm. . emem er, o ay s sc ocn . with super-ficial, skin-deep trivia, i~ tomorrovv'::; t.reasure. 1 he atte:npts to get under tlle auf- face; he aims to get below and behind. This Isn~t Funny 1 After he has r,one beyond the 1 initial stages of inspeeting and . manipulating his matel\ial. he : comes to the climax of his work , with a flow of rhetoric; What 1 he has done must be taken as a whole; as much as it deserves lool.;!ng into. T:1C tl afiice CtJmmissioner was watching TV one night, This is the odput of a life- • 1 the sparlding tradition of our city, and saw a program· time's work. It is to be hoped . 'bovt t!:c :1cT.'.' '\Barne-s Dance\ ll' 1 New York ..:~urm' e: whi\ch that his practices will be adopted u ~ and that l1is seed will now fall '1inety·Sf''>'t'll million people well up at all four corners of. upon infetile ground. ·:n intrr:::P~!ion and wait for a long time for the light to han_3e, and wben it does, explode across Lhe street in all· M d li!\ections lmocking each other down, getting trampled and· . ustar . . '.1o.ttled by uther people insteacl of cars, trucks and insidious ; axi cab drivers. Continued fmm Page 3 cally, the liquid-like substance spurting f1•om its very core car- rying the Americans up and out Our traftk commissioner was sitti.ug there watching of the pit. Within a few hours [he tube with all these people mashing each other, and they were safely landed in suddenly ;:.:ot the 2'reat idea that we ought to have a thm\ g. Lacky's plane on the island of ~ ~ Hawaii. like that in Metropolis because it would :make us a really Temp;' Nature? big import£~.nt. town. So he set up all the traffic lights so American officials, afcer hav- tha t each one stays red for at least fifteen minutes at a. ing been briefed on the peculiar adventures of Lacky and 1\l:us- . stretch, and seems to stay on for an eternity. The system· tard, sent an expeditionary force ! s actually ingenuous since the lights are only red for traf-. to Ataturk A taturk. The mys- . : ic ~··:hen there is traffic, and red for pedestrians when there terious island, howevet· could not be found. 0, who ca11 .:fathom· !?. some po01' slob standing on a deserted corner trying to the great mysteTies of ()Ul' tru11 t•m::;s the street. Mother-Earth! Lacky is now back at Union, and vows never The upshot of all this is that this week some poor slob r:a.sted away to nothing after waiting so long for the con.: founded light to change. I think we should stop kiddi11g '}Urselves, this isn't funny! again to tempt Nature again. The · horror of his adventure has shaken him utterly, body and mind. Colo11el Mustard 1•eti1'ed to his Conservatory:. Mi~;s Scar- let Js reportedly glad he has come back. ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES for Seniors and Graduales in CA Pratt& Wl1it~1ey Aircraft PUS ~ An (qual Opportun.ty Employer, M & F MECHANICAL, AERONJHJr!CAL, Gi-!E§VII CAt, ELECTRICAL, and METALLURGlCJ11 ENG! N EEP.!NG ENGINEERiNG riif:GHAr,HCS APPliED 1\U\Tl-!Ei'iiAHLS P~2YSICS and ENCINEEl~lNG PHYSICS s Appointments $hould be mnde in C:ldvance through your College Placement Office Sf'ECIALIS1\S IN ~ •• ,.POWER FOR PROPU·LSION-POWER FOn AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT IJ\TILlZA\fiONS II'ICLUPE AIRCRAFT, MISSI!..£5, SPACt VEfllCLtS, 1.1.\rillli': :1ND !,(;.. 0 ~·;;11A' Af?L;c,;oriJNS, ~---------------§_----~--------------~--------------·-------------------~ j Gen InjuJ Gen. ranking .A an injury wrist whU, ~y, tho Fou1 <;on tin sandals and for the W old men v for Ameri• Club. All tho~ indicate sc d.isorg ani whenever 3 to do. Unic Now in Day, th.e re ful·of the f 1946 there Founder's ~ means that founded t· many year College car year if it This impli has to be 1 How migh1 ed 1 Very June 15, \Loser's D The narr years ago Day.\ (I OJ to waste S] erally goe. those who terous cere of a sumtt embarrass~ The ann more debntr night iu tl 8:15. The tl1at the. U ment should coal mines,\ h1 g tlte all'i DIJJ Enjoy Cooked I Com forte Opp. 1 0 Open!:: I. Sundays D', TEXA4 RC 1757 v Pho

2,5, 1966 Union :be- · H is ()f ' Fe<llow to which orgy in Build- seen to :passers-by Even been seen It is 0011spiracy als of our j l .. ' ...... J 1966 General Westmoreland Injured 0 tn Viet Action Gen. William C. Westm<>rland became the first high- ranking American military official in Vietnam t9 sustain an injury in the war. He hroke a small bone in his left wrist while playing tennis yesterday. He returned to action ~..!...thougi:_ assisted to hi~ desk by an aide. Founder:;s ... • <;ontinued from Pag~ 1 ;:~andals and play a guitar if I'm fot• the War\ Club and \Only old men with ugly wives a1·e for American Vietnam policy\ Club. All those interested please indicate so, by staging noisy, disorg an i z e d demonstrations whenever you have nothing else to do. Union Confounded Now in regard to Founder•s Day, the reader should be mind.- ful·of the following f.acts: Since 1946 there have been twenty Foundei:'s days. This, of coUl'se, means that the College has bee11 founded twenty times in as many years. Now obviously 11. College cannot be founded every year if it is already founded .. This implies that the Colleg-e has to be unfounded each year. How might this be accomplish- ed 1 Very simply, eacl1 yeat· on June 15, the College has s \Loser's Day.\ The name was changed two years ago from \Unfounder-s Day.\ (I only inserted thi's faet to waste space). This day geQ.- erally goes unnoticed becaus.e those who attend such prepos- terous ceremonies in the middLe of a summer vacation are too embarrassed to admit it. I The annual freshman-sopho- more debate will take place to· night iu t}le college eltapeJ at 8:15. The. subject is: \Resolved tl1at the United States govern- ment should own and operate tlte coal mines,\ tlte sophomores tak- htg tlte alfimtative .and the • - • DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our, Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The BrQwnell Gate oil Nott St~: Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sunday~ 5 P.M. - 1 A.M. D'AMICO'S TEXACO SERVICE.· . . ROAD SERVICE 1757 Van Vranken Ave. Phone FR '2-9767 thought I'd mention it here for the benefit of anyone who eould poossibly ca1·e. Conclusion Now I must begin a conclu- sion because I'm running out of Tlte Ca]if()rnia Department of Professional a11d Vocational Standards sa3 1 s tltat while popu- lation continues to grow in the state, the membered chiropractors has dipped slightly. r CAREERS IN STEEL eT~ sr EL ..... Our representatiue will be on campus March16 to interview unclergraduate and graduate candidates for Bethlehem's 1966 Loop Court;e training program. OPPORTUNITIES are available for men interested in steel plant operations, sales, research, mining, ac- counting, and other activi- ties. DEGREES required are mechanical, metallurgical, electrical, chemical, indus- tdal, civil, mining, and other engineering special- ties; also chemistry, phy- sics, mathematics, business administration, and liberal arts. If you would like to discuss your career interest with a Bethlehem representative, see your placement officer to arrange for an interview ap· ].>ointment. An Eqltal Oppor•tunity l!Jmployer in tAe Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM STEEL . __ ......, __________ ----·----------' 5 Disaster In Pretoria !Batman ' • • Continued from Page 1 Human tragedy struck Pretoria, South Africa, yesterday. A 42- l otT their pa1·\ in recent weeks. year-o d man was fatally stung when he tried to t•eseue his pet dog- fl'Oln a swarm of bees. Blame has not yet been affixed, Authorities said the man and an African ser\'ant managed to hut the shady waterfront char- dr-ag the dog clear but had to flee when the bees tUl'ned on them. 1 , acters who custo.marily are the Official.s at the sc:ene said they were expecting aid f.r 0 .m Super- best non-official &ources of infor- mal!, but di'seo,·ere<l too bt~ that Soutl1 Ai'rica had been sanctioned ' mation on such disgraceful (lC- by the Great Benefacto1• for not defending truth, justh·e, and the: currences, say that Batman may A1ne1·ican way of. be suffering from Tsursugamuch. Can Supe1·-Chil\a1nan Hy? \Is Batman Dt·ying Up\ South Afriean officials,. informed ·sources reported, have sent a j The prh•ate lives of all the note of pr,Jtest to Washington. The message threatened to dese1t i members of the J.wstice League th~ 1Jn!!cd States ip favo~· of China who, th.e officials said, offered I hmre .become a matter of increas- to admtt South Afr1ca to rts Superman Syndwate. ing public co.ncem in recent Authorities in Washington scoffed at the purported .offer, The weeks. One r-ecent article, for Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff \doubts sedously\ that U1e , example, appeared in The Na- Chinese have a supemwn. Dean Rusk, Secretary o£ State, noted I tiona! Enquirer entitled \Is Bat- l'hat even if .there was such a thing as a Chinese Supcrman, he was 1 man Drying Up'l\ The National n<>t yet in the o:IJerationa:l stage. 1 Review printed a piece called Sn]Jerm.mt in Gel'many 1 W N h Hu;;k went on to say that all the good-deedaton capability in the \Wonder oman: ! ymp or world would be of no usc without deLivery appm·atus. He believes I Pink?\ that China will be a threa,t, but not f<Jl' at least five years. ! A Police Department spokes- . An. another front in the Superman race, West Germany was [ man summarized official opinion glVel~ v1rtuaHy an absolute r~buff, neat:ly, in its bid for· mixed-manned I . \\\hen he said: «Jt's probably just mult 1-!aterai super force, smce Russta believes that Germany has 'I An Albmo Shovelling Snow in a working professional friend- had its fill of Supermen. . ~A;;l;;;as;;k.,·a;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.sh;;;;;ip;;.;;;\;;;;· ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_; Stalled College Moves; ·y oi.let Rules Changed Students a:t Disjointed College, movement to libet•alize the hours a sma.ll men's school on a hill stated tl1at the trustees of th~ o.vcrlook!ng downtown MetrBpo- college are being very unreason- Its, are m the process of ge.ttmg able in the matter. They refu.se a more liberal set of bathoom to recog-nize even the most basic hours. As it stands now, bath- bodily desires. Everyone km>ws t•(}oms are closed a:U hours. tha:t guys sneak into the bath- There has been much talk in room ~ow and then. Going to the past few years about open- the to~let has become accepted ing the ba.throo.ms, but as yet, by soc~~ty. We -~hould not be no action has been taken. The hypoer1txcal abo-ut 1t. rules, broken by many fraterni- tie&, hurt the independents who find the rules .strictly enforced PERSONAL <:OLUMN in the d<ll'rns. This a.llows for Morlan, Ploase eomo hom~. We havo m:any frush·ated .independents found your pogo sticl<. who can always 'be spotted by Love, Mothor the \way they \\al.k\ (Hi, L.G.) Fred Gro.ssface, <a leader of the For three Genel'ations • fhose Who Know Have been recommending HERSHEL .MAURICE 0. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons 14 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOI> JEWELRY Don't sign up until you read the fine printe AIRCRAFi, MISSILES, GEMS VERrtCAl. FllGI-IT SYSTEMS- Excephonaf ha<:k· Cround .n V/STOL jet figtltcr-Jbornber and\ducted propeller transport devi'!-IOiliT'\'\\t GUI0£0 M!SSil E'S - Hrs:t :Oil'::;Jiete W-.?di)011 syst~m contractor respv1•stble for lrtJru~~nwnt des•gn antl.prod•IC110r1 of a:•,gr•JIJ'ld s:>·!>•en•<i. TARGET \MISSILE SYSTEMS- fdte~n v~MS ~\X· perience ~~ dcs1gn. develcpn•-ellt d 1{1 p•·J~u~t·on of t.l'~CI ryt SSIIP S.y-s•Pm~ AIR LAUf'IICf-t SY~llJ.,.lf>- Si'ste'T1 d-es.-:n an·J f,)b\iC'\:itr0/1.. H~Ar PflOTFCT!ON- O~tJhle v-;,'tll :ol1!otn.:-::t,~m. !.uccc-\'islully tested anhver to :e e-c try ~ed~.ng Refrocturv matcnals for re e11t,... 1 CROU.ND SlR'liCING EQIItPl!ENt - D.e~1;;n Jnd rator,cat•O.n of .:un•tJ!~te- G':JE f·Jt .:11r:r~ft. n't'S~ ·e.,; a\ld rock~t er,t:u.es. GHUUNO EffE~f ',IACHiN(S - \'Pnsw.i! :ln tr.1rtor f()t ldr,.::e,~ US f.C'/ ·· N<~•. '> •. ' • '-''· HyJr,:,s!·ummet. AIRCRF.FT OESir',N - fr.Jr:-J 1.·<>-t A'\l~r- 3~ Jt!t a.r 1 1•a.,e through ··x -s.t::r ? .. and prr..\jc;• ~· ':JT.JL c-o•tcepts. 51Rt;CHJRES- l'ght-.ve,ghtt·\\Jt.pr'lteo:t.?--t J d c .... mp.;K.td~~:.. SPACE SYSTEMS R£'.;0'Jl:.PABLE SPACE. YEHICUS- Oc-s1~n. lest .l'ld lah\1cat•C\~' uf .. c>'~r~eJ <JIId ~~~·n..tn~ed ,p.ll..c vt.·h •.!f\•:olor C:l:'\\r~J-'ft'J 'Jn1• .. rs ~n vtrth ?rn·o.>ll. £ ;(TflATtRRfSTRIA.l \'-101\-1V..F.ftS --Dl\1velOpr1ter.t. f }))nccJtlon ..11u:l evatu.1:wn qt l'Q'J'P•Il~Jnl f Jr e•tr :t· vehr~otar n•~-,..,1-;;id ,,;·r-r 1••or::. .f1 J ~DlCC\ J' '•·•'·lf e.,\.~.1',.me:tt SPA<.E ·.t H:.;lE3-- c.._.s:l,t\. ~<lhrt.:;a.1•or: 1\rf 1 {\<; of s.l!e'ilt~s. ,;.,~'\d' ~ ~a~'-\.Y''\·-~n:, m;•,~·uve••\\~t ,1<1rl rt?nCe:wh.'i ·;PPER :;TNJ:S- : .• .,., ~r1- f<~'Jr•.::.l:. .., ar•d 1~:;,~ vf S(l.J·.:c >1.-tt:'='s ,,u,.;,, ~~ •·t,!g•<tt·u,· .. •f ~tru<.t,.•e. t'Pl~.9~P :e.h1·l-'rt)jluh•W! S.y\'::•~11 Sl~,l'Jl.:\TORS-F•x-.'>U'I);j<;rl ~··11111<1!:·~ t1 -~~ l'!·a\'l~'! ~,l.l· ~ '>/':otem., t ,, cva!u . .:t: ~ ;'Jnd tr.·r:••t~l! ROCXET .()PERATiONS '-:QUiD RQ~f.l t PRO~L': ':. 1 J:t ~- ~\'t.v.lcet {'\\'! ~·\\·\\\~ Jntl <'lf'll \l'~ ~ru,u\!'tl•: lJf'i'\'S. '•· ... s:•n• ~llf;uh• 10 (:••~o•.e\>. tt..· J.I1E• Ji\H~ .lr', -·e·.~orll.JL.J\ .• 1 .:otn:1.s.. HIGH EN£RGY SOLID PRDPEI.lAI'IrS - 3p l'u:osi~ of new 1:'CoiT1POUn<ls ior s.,l1d proj)\!l \' ~ ~.topt.·~· , .. --1· l , ,..e -,, P.OV.\Nt..~.t:J 'lO·.I'.:_l i',' 1 f''.-'1.;,10:'• - Res.··•r and d.evelop'lU•••t J/1 rll'l\'l pr.lpe··;trt .COfl\'lM.\ toont;. P'\'-~~J•I: 1'·•)fl · -'•'..t'j.ot~. tf~t.,..,: c.flt~fTlbe• .... :.1gh ~ornbu..,b .. .m t~•J·i•e·..ttur~:; d 1 1: at!l·ta!'i 1'1 clud1n:g ituvdne O~•!Jtcd pr ';:;'J :..vn 5f .;tt' ' techr._~·t..t:)' UEACT:O\\-l CONTP..J~i - t· ... ...,~t,: ,..,~ propu:s.on systt:m$ pr~'l,dlllti llt>•t .er \'~'···-·! JU;u~t~·\J-.'~. propellant settling a~.! ..l't t.J'!t' ';(.\'' ~atl?ll. PRODUCTS & SERVICES OF BElL AEROSYSTEMS Pif1PULSiON S\STEI.l GR:OV~O HANDLIN~ fQUJPMCNt --· Oes•t,l\le-1..1 ,mtJ fabr-:.1ted to prJ v.du check cut, tunctH)Il~l te-st. dn~! serv1c.r.g of prof.ll·~·on svr.·r~~,.,~. CflY'.)·..Jf.NIC f•L,:Mf'S -- f\•'teen Y<!\.J'\!i er;Jerr~nr.:t! ,,, ile~ .• gn .al\'·.l dfl'Jel ·J.'\:'(?flt o' punp~ for Uq.:td r:.••rcge'!. lte• .m. (!.l(.y.;\\n,. hydr-::(.er: ar d f!uorme u:vtRQNr...tENfAL H.STING OF PHOPULSION ~ vSfEI'.'S- 1-J.:;'t•h~~ fol\' S}~tem ar.d .:ornpon~nt ~est·n~ at <;::•rnt~.at~d .:htotu•..:a. pres;ure i!nd t!\m· 1 ~·)r11tun• L'1f'd•ttOns trono St'3 !('te• ~..) lQ--8 Torr ).:· .. ·r)\ ... ! • .- ~-· ::?\ S.Po/1\.tl 1-!(.'f''{~r LiFT [1l~ICC:- A n-ew d•men- SI·Jr. 1n n•..,orilty, t.._~ C.t't.nu:ed ro.-:ket be-lt IS a :<l'\li;JIC'['~ O'lt:' m& '1 ,ltlf*, y•a• P' Jr,u:•,,on '5ystflrn. AOV.\NCE\!l RES£1\RCH f'l-'0~ .JlS'C'~ ANO PO.Jr£R Che'll\\':.tl P•opt.•llar>t~ ~- S~Ltdy ~nd se!~:tfon of ro-t.~ #..,d )I'\~ o;,~f; ~ror.<> ·~nl'S .a~'l fu>!l blefldS for l•,..:h <111\'rV !1q•11J propell.an! roOet eng1Pe'i. f>~,·ftl:-rrau;e O::.ilt.::lJ:.JtiOns. - New (.ornputer totO· ~.~ ~···s t-,~r ~~~ a'ual• rt-~ r~',....Q' ... .Jfltt.· C'•.lfa·.tertst.cs. C't prop(!I'Jflt anc.l \}~ld<.'(•r t·rrbrrldtrun:;, Hu~lraar t'r;,.o, •11-..l·>r\' -- l•l i)\·c?t;•S (\\n ,,,, n•J: 1 ear curT•f•or•lmts IIH'l .,,n~ rtP.W rn.ater al ilrJ.tf c~nlrol t·~· • q '~\!. '•' ·~.·~t-i• , ...... l<l.'\t en, IE''> t l•~<'.lr•c i•ro,~ .. l$o.'\Jr- 6.3:SIC stud·P., of electric 1 \:\•J tl1co'-,- Jnd p-rara.w~• ... m J~vl':t'l ,nvoiOJHtg OIP~Irostat·- fo'\~es Pr lOt~TI..tl'tt i--ta-n~?--Racll attJn stu:l.es to me-asure 1 1e:)•lll! .nr11ott•Jn t~m~er-ttb•~ and he.tt tr.ans• ~\i$~1on IAJ\11-..Pif\LS R~SEARCH· •'•r.h Tflomperature Matcncrs- rtP.so.c>Jrch In h1gh ]~-o.•rr\\'''~I•Jre rntf;fo,:,O,[ f.>r rot'kf!t en~;;mes. Spate l1'VIPJr:r·tel1t Effe.-~-s Jn M.\ltl'rtals- Varuu\Tl <lt-d r~d1<1.t,o\1 f'Hf!:t$ 0\ po 1 ymeric r~C:lcf,at .-..:-~Test~~ of ro.::I<Pt ~nt\'a C)rrponents. Nucll!ar r.1~s.s :·{.,... fJt'\ •• •.' ~ ' ,,easu(e mass 'IO,.I f.Utf'S SPAI ( l)YNA'.liCS· O~b•tul tril/l-<i11'r <Jftd ~e·t·~c-:vout;. to- te•p!~nr>t.ar 1 .,~~~~·0•1 <,.LlJ.,•s I f!'~Urbat.u1 !:tnd ··~ <VION!CS l'll .... t-1 Pt ~FCPMANCE :OII\~V\!GATIO~ SYSTE:M HIPCrtt,~S 1• 1 - Cr.mp'~(P gr,oda.f'ce an1 r.avi· ~f.ltl'lfi !.f.Sief\S +or Strc1te~1C il~d IJC~·C&I fiiiSS•·e\S il••.·at! i!• J ·~ruS(Ic.·.e v-eh.cl-::~. s•;:. a·.d s-.b ,·~a· r-\ 11<~\l'l•<ltll}\ ar:J di\·Jne reco~t~try. ~: . . • i (f?Ll''~H.·l~ .o;r,w [JI~·<AL VELOCiiY .Vt lf rt:l- rt\·~ SA.:: HI 6 L•r\.eJr Acce;e•ometer 11\'.. d f .1·1 1 ;e ,..1 .:.sr' . ..,r ,1 \'' ..:. .,, f (' 7 ll ~- Com· L·•l,..·\! Yo1tt• ttlc- e~~l!troJI D- 1 A-.?t 'cloc•!t ,\feter It y• ,..,cs. 3. r~: .. ·l ,,,, c: ~ ~ .. f .-..y)t ... .., ..,., ... ~eo ~·•lsc rate •:.. flr.tport•v·H~ to ~~h:~, .·..,•·pt,:r Pt:t ~ ar..;eteration. RAO;() fh.Ct n U1S - d···· :. .'1.\J'.t 31'd 550· r. e.,d ,~-;1., · ·• •·vt>\'- 1• ePi t•,.- ~·~<;'•r>~; requ,re- Mcn~s ot rn~o;s :·~> a:HI tlt..:.::' .\ ·.:;y~t'!<'Tl\i. A.\J'!)MATIC Chf.CKC•JT EQUIPMENT- A com· pletc autorratrc ~:1ecKout &ys.tcm do:wc!');>~d for lJS Arr Force mi'is.•lcs. AIR TR4HIC CONTROL BE:AC.ON EQUIPMENT- A<lds ~electiVe ldlllltiflcatiDn feature (~It) to Mark X IFF eqUipiT'ent opNat•ili 10 c:onJunctio,, vnth ground radar sets. RADAR SYSTEMS - Developed for both srol!nd bel sed and a•rborne appllca~ror.s mcl1at.ng S!:l'art •• h, trackmg. and seeker types. BAITtEFIElD SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS - For target location. observat1on of troop movemer'lts and damage assessment ubltz~ng reh.1ble a1'· borne sonsors, positive pos1t1Jn reference equ1p· ment. data links, and precise g10und sensor MISSILE AND DRONE RECOVERY SYSTeMS - Successfully u<;;Cd for Regulus recovery C01t1b1ne-s fe1tures of the automatic landtr~g system w1tt1 B.e!J's S:fJcure command ~ystcm. SECURE TRANSMISSION SYSTE'<'S - DesiBned for control. na'ilgaUon, coded commuru.:atlon. and dab transmission to offset countef\11easurcs m efectrcntc warlar~. AUTOMAfJC FLIGHT CONTROLS -An un1que constcant·altltude-hovering autopilot for Navy .nnti·submilrine hehcopt~rs with speo:aal hydraulic servo vaiV\es. antenra drives and power systems, AUTOMATIC LANDING SYSTEMS - Available ;n cuttt(tr land or c.arrier-based vcrs1ons - the o\ll)' ground danved system available th<lt affords pre· c•se and reliable aircraft control. GYROSCOPES - The Brig II gyroscope is Ll two· desree-·Of·freedom. floated instrument designed for aerospace applications where accuracy. small sl.ze, and light W(!jght are essential. Receiuers. Transmitters, Coders, Beacons. Power Supplaes. Electromagnetic and Electrostat•c Re· sean:h, .Rf C1rcuit and M1crowave Equ,prne;nt Development. Counter measure anti Count~r count~r measure Res.carc.h, Analog and D1gatal Computataon, and Data Processing Techn•ques. ELECTRONICS RESEARCH: Non·hnaar ctrcuit theory; self adaptive filters; in· fonnattori theory and detemuftation of optimum codes. for pulse. cc-nmurucabon: polyphase fre· quoncy rnult•pliers; mt.11t1p1e frequency pumping of pMametrlc amplifiers. etedromc.gnetic pro· pa!Jahon m the atmospher-e of the planets; con· sult.uhon. RADIO fREQUlNCY INTE:RfERcr,CE: RFI analysis of electronic systems, e.g., voice in1erfercnce dctect1on. meast.remcnt and analt sis of t:ommuntcJhOns systems. Detectton, mea· surement and c3na1ys~~ of 1•1terlerenc.e 10 RTI, paise or radar systems. Automatic frequency mMsur•ne: and mamtoring eqUipment. Electromagncttc f.o'OPileat•.on theory development and held e~tpcrlmcntatlon, ante:1na system de· veloprnent. POSITIONS ARE IMMEDJATELY AVAILABLE Zp2ct1um Sl&::nature Data Colllcc!ann and AnaltSa$, Thecret1csl RFI predtcbon t<:thntque-:.. ll\lcl Molf•e-· mat1cal rMtf-ah~,a:. SERVICCS Human fJctO\'i .analysis; stu-:h!!'S .1nd cledrcr.·c S1mUt11tton of man mar;hme ,nterrclat.on~l1•PS E.lectromc Range Oparat,on, Dat<ll Colle-:t:~n~ D.lta Re-c:1 .. c-t~on and Anai)IS•S. SPECIIU. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES HIGH·S?EED 01\TA PROCESSII':G- IBM 7090 comput-er and complete 1401 c<Jm:>uter system. MANUFACTUfUNG RESEARCH - Matenals and processes mod1f•ed and developed to meet spe· c1ftc and unusual requirements. PRECISION MACHI NINo AI'ID FABRICATION - M.Bnulacturc and J<:.'it'mbly of complex atrfram..' and rn~sostle component> TITANIUM F\ABRICATION-~.'a<::\h•\~lng t\lot form· mg c'ld assembly of tllilntum part'i. MANUfACTURING SuBCONTRACTING - A,r. frame anti nliSStle comp.Jnent'i mc!tuhng com· plete 1.1es1gn, test and qu.ahft<;Jhon HYPERSPE.E.D PUMPS - fho de~·en. manufac· ture and test of hi-pressure centnfugal pumps. AIR CUNVl. Y0R - Prav1des frictionless piJtfarm for matenal handling. PERSONALIZED LOAD CARRYING DEVICES - Enables man to carry heav1cr loads wtth less fatigu~ o.,.er e~-:tended t1me pnne>ds . LABORATORY CAPABILITIES PROCESSES: Process Development and Sp~JtJticaUons Vacuum Furnace CHEMISTRY: lnorgamc, Organ1c, Phys1cal and AraJ;vtical Solid and L1qu1d Propellants INSTRUME.NTATION; Standards and Ca~tbration Measurements ln\itrument Development and E'laluation Data AcQuisition and Analysis Human factors EQUIPMEfiT: Shock and V1bratton E.lectromec hanics Hydrauircs Stattc, Acou~tlc Clfld r:nv1ronrnantatTest Eleclron1r. No•se fLIGHT P~RFORMANCl. Flight Test a\d Vehtcle Technologr' MAHRIALS. MEIALLIC AND NONMlTALLJC: Ablative Te~t nnd Development Adhestve·Borldmg Evaluatton and Development Mecl:an•cal and Thermal Propertte~ at -45.1 to sooor. Elec.tron Beam Welding Development Coatmg Eva!uatton H1gh.( ... ~ 5000F .) remp~ratUJe Oxtdation Tests Ceramic Materia! Dcvelopm~nt for gr.1tiuates In AE, .\IE, EE, Engim·L·~in~ ,\\echanics, Materi,1l Science, Mathematics, Physics or Chemistry, includr:1g 1hme wb lun! e,1rned PhD!'. An on-the-job training program \viii put you to work immediately under the direct:nn ••t one ni 1:0:·:!'~ t\<:Jerienced engineers or scientists in an area of Bell activity most suited to your in:L'Inh <1nd t;,tininp;. A.nrl. as your abilities de\·elop, your promotion will be facilitated by Berl's active skills inventory program. • • LOCATION -ideal for further >tudy, n·lax<1tinn or .for jmt plain all-around good living. Bell is situated just 4 miles from f,1mc'd :-\iag,li\.l L1lls on th<> rt·ni:l.;ula between G1·eat Lake~ Erie and Ontario, Jess than 2 hours flying tim~ irom ~cw Ywk, \\'<l>hinglun (If Chic,1go, and a short drive frum Adirondack and Alleghany Moun• tains, or the great Cam chan vJra!1onl,~ nds of Ontario and Quebec. ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Will be held within the next weL!k or ~C>. Make a date through your Placement Office to see our Personnel Represf!ntativc. If you miss us, drop a card indicating your major study to T. C. Fritschi, and we'll se11d you literature describing job opportunitie~ in more detail. BELL AE ROSY STEMS A textron\ coMF>ANV' P.O. Box 1, Buffalo 5, New York An Eq1.1al Opportunity Employer (M&F) •

t THIS ISSUE: omans WOULD YOU BELIEVE 6? SO PAGES TODAY IN F AS HI ON The appearance of Dean Pole- 1 it \bungalow colony\ has struck! glazed appeal'Unce reminds o11e cat at s~cond term l'e¥istratlon,: :.t 11e_w higf! ~1.1 ob~olete i(le~,t~on .. of the sense of rapport present dressed 111 faded blue-Je·ans and 1 W1th th1s m mmd, we v1srted between the bt+gler am.d buglee,, Brooklyn Stampers, has drawn • the Dean at his office the othe1· He was wearing modifie<l :Sea- much comment from fashion-' das. We immediately noted his tle boots with his lapel-less m<J- conscious Uni:on Wm·thies. ! clever identification • with -the- hair suit, .and we n-oted with .a]J- A weJ.l-informed correspondent· F.tudent approach (wbile of course, proval the motorcyde jacket <Hi high·ly placed in the college ad-' Lhe students were identifying his moose-antle1• coat rack. Re- ministration has revealed the pos-\ with him). We had difficulty ferring to it as Ms \car-coat t::he ::.ihility that the Dean makes a recogn-izing the Dean, for to om· :nodest Dean pointed out tlle habit of developing new fashio-n! surprise he had abandoned his hand-embroidered .skull and cross- :deas while on vacation, and has 1 ntodified fly-away flat-top hair- bones on the ·hack, and the me::o!!i- actually been a style setter in I cut, which had firmly planted him can-silver studs, ·.painted to re- the Northeastern college .popula- in the mainstream of the post- semble scarabs, which cO'lltl\flSted tion. While he l1as always been. World-War-II-baby-boom imag. e. 1 8o sharply with the highly buffed a force in student affairs, his Today, sporting neatly combed plack leather, \Mother wQuld refreshing \summer camp\ in- \long\ hair, and modern, \Cllll'k have been proud to own it\ l!e fluPn~\ as others have termed Kent\ glasses, the D~-l!lllid,. smil,;_~ ~ Turnip Meets Pussy Prexy Alfred Turnip (seated, tie by 1 Leo's second hand shop) has just finished demon:;lratillg h;s new invention to Lemuel Probe, pres- 1 ldent of Pussy W'tlssy Industries, Inc., and Kazidiphith Poove, ne- t't'oph'iliac and philanderer. Mr. J llove has financed Turnip's prev- · iuus inventions which have been many and varied. Turnip, a native of Ireland, , \'-·;w slevt through W o1·id \\' ar U, suggesled that wooden bombs be dropped on the Axis powers J.ut his -sug-gestion was not acted Ll]hHl Leeause it was not ,n:a<le until HJ5i. (Worl{! War 1I had t<nded previously). Among other L!1ing::; that he has pioneered were woolen zevpelins, reclaimation of 1 tohacco from cigarette smoke, leather highways, and plastic •t•i1et tissue. \All of these in- \'l'ntions have not came u-p to our expectations,\ :\1r. Poove inform- ell us. Ontinous· 'Coeds Hold Ceremony; Edi/ace 0/!Dance ~till Daybreak -Eroticis~n One misty night, Wfl were wa.lk- ,hlg -down a -street away fl:om the We ?ecided to push her :further college on oul' way downt(}wn for mfo!'mation, C t t . with the intention of ta.king a \Why the Dance of ·naoth, and· • ons rue 1on ()f the librru:y d 1 t d b k h · \\' t ll 't b . d . . eservec s u Y rea • J.t was . w Y on such ·a wretclt·ed· ni'gh\\ ?, \ ~ e. 1 e tul ings and dormitor- '·h 1 · '\ · d . · rau er ·ate, and the e11shrouding we asketl o. lll' flaxen gou•l. w· 1 't] 1 1es es1g·nated ·the Center fOI' • t Jd · Ii JJt' m1s vv:as -co · and eerie. There a casmal shrug ·of her shoulders ··a .tng .aJtd Accelerating Spread was a steady wind blowing a tin we got ()Ut answer. ' oj '1\u•pttude and Eroticism and C<!,n down the sidewalk scHnewhere · m~ 't' • :f ,tile Center for the Restoration 1 d 1 aecause, 1 s In, or one. And- oi Aband-oned Se1rnal Standards, 'a lead. of 11 1 s, alnd 1 au ochc~::riQna · co1,1ld you imaginB :pe1•forming the l\~spectfully has fall behind catr trobvehis dow Y c.own t e main . Danee of Death under a balmy schedule. Expected to be ready 8 ree e 11 us. b!ue 'sky to the magic of singing f<Jr (}ccupancy by students and As we passed the gates of the btrds and 11orteybees ?\' :::..-dministrators in the fall the local cemetery, we gave into the We had to admit that she had n:ew buildings may not be ~·eady natmal desil·e . to. look into ~t ·a !JOint, and we complimented her u,ntil some time after the rutting 0 ~ 1 , such a typrcal hor~·or-movre and ~er friends on the chQice of s>eason. Dean PoUzei described _mght,. perhaps exp~ctmg Bela dancmg grou1;1ds. ;Ne~t we want- Hie development as \ominous ... Lug~s 1 to beckon w 1 th the arm ed to know how long <this mara- (l. • • • setback fo1· clean living ?f hls cape. But what we saw thon was g.oing to go 0 . 11 • a.:nd rig]it thinking.\ . mstead ~~e:re t~'() orang~ glo.ws . ·hardly v1s1ble m the th 1 ckemng \Well she mused, \we.'ve The delay has been attnbuted mist. Decid.Lng on the moment been out here dancing for about t() a shortage of telescreens. and to chance the d\'tngers, we hopped six hom·s now, and I think that master. panels.. Each room 1s to. th€ galte am! made our way to- we'U be .able to make it until ~ equ1pped. w1t)1 one <Yf the ~ww ·wads the lights whlch now turn~· dayb1•ea)c.\ s.creens, w~lle the 1!1aster .pane~s ed Ott<t to be woodiires. \Daybreak!\ we gasped. \But :-x~ to be ;n~tall~d g: .thfe. d9l'J!ll-: It was somewhat startling nne', that's absurd ..• what could pos- r~~de~~:X A: o1 thJs ~ep~~~r::;-~1; ,anti-climatic to f-in-d two large ~bl~ be tte pu_rpose in that. a few of the screens have' been 'circles o-.f college coeds, ]rand in · •otl re ?ill- ,r gomg to develop ]J' ·· d t U · hand, dancing doggedly around pneumoma. s lppe o ruon. h f th I r· . 11 \Th b' t . \ h 'd I In additioQn, a paucity of ex- cue , o c 1011 1res, oc~as1ona y \' . e o jec. ts, s. e sar .coo '1• '].>erie need Navajo construction • slowmg as .some on€ tr:tpped and rs to determine whtch group w1ll ft.lrther behind sc1 1 edule. Seeking then speedmg up. agam as the outdance the .other .. It shou~d tCJ· preserve the College's Navajo- pers?n rlragged h1mself up and. be ~ r~tber mt~restmg and 1}. Gothic architecture made famous contmued. We walked over to a lummatmg experience for all of t'broug-hout the state by Jean tir~d-looldng girl w,ith long blo'nde us.\ J':scquM Ramee, the College feels ha1r \:'ho sat on a ~ra.ve stone, \What happened to you? Were o:nly experienced NaVIajos could .munchmg .an apple tndlif~rently. you not dancing toe?\ we inquir- Continued Page 6, Col. 1 When asked what wa:s gomg on, ed. TAMP AX INCORPORATED DIVIDEND NOTICE 'l'he Board of Directors of this Corporation has declared a res·ulnr •.tuarte•'!lY dlvldsnd of fifty·flvc cents (5 5c) per share on the capital stock of the Col'lJoratlon, payable on March 15, 1966 to stockholders of record at the close of business March 1, 1966. Transfer books will not be closed. she lo.oked startled fer a moment, ' 1 f.t '\Vias,\ she replied, \but I pe1•haps not expectjng company had a rather unfortunate aeci- in the cemetery at this hour of dent ••• cat:~ght my foot on a war the night, and replied that it was memoriaL So I guess that takes a marathon. · care of the d:mcing for tonight, \'What kind of a lll't!rathon?\ we. huh'?\ wan.~e<l to know. Yes, we supposed it did. But \Dance maratho·n,\ she said her loyalty to ;the others pre- rather ,rw.tt1ral!y, and then added vented bel' f1•mn leaving. So there dr.yly, \Pance ·of Death, that is.\ .she sat, .sitting a gra,vestone, de- We could certainly see why the sti'ned to· sit till dawn, wa-iting Dance of Death was being danced for her companions to drop in here, but what conf!lSed us was exhaustion. We decided that we why. Jt seemed to be a .slight, couldn't stay much longer, so we H. A. Riley aberration from the college ac- said gOQdbye and picked our way Treasurer tivitles w·e were used to, but may- • through tile mo-numents .towards be -we just :never lived before. the gate. !'chruary 17, U66. His latest world startling in- vPntion was shown to Lemuel I'oove in the hope that his com- pr.ny would market the product >~oon. Turnip has refused to di- ·:ulge what this latest invention :s or whnt it will do. \I have to '\eep this \·ery quiet. Premature ':1nllging of any information will have adverse affect on the bull- fighting and curling industries.\ .\ t this 11o-h1t Mr. Poove aslced whnt \premD·ture divulg-ing\ ~md ''adverse'' meant. Everyone ig- ::ored him. Turnip was grim- ''lOUthed rlur.ing the entire intor- Light Fails; Naiser Dies In Metropolis Gutter \Do come back at dawn,\ she called after us, \and bring a ' camer~t. You can take pictures qlld ma~•be even write a story about us. You know, iit is one hell of all accomplishment.\ . iew m; he sat down wearing two , rist watches (so I can ti!ll the • ;me in Ireland too) and a belt : 'mt was given t-o him by Anth- •llY Quinn in gratitude for the ].,an of his suit when he had or- ··asion to wear one onre. Continued from Page 6, Col. 4 C'ompete11tly duplicate the early .\merican (Navajo) lines of such 1 1uilclings as the psychology pue- ' -lo. Pithily put by Pol-izei, \only :he Navajo h11ows the beauty and Prlifiration of austerity. Union's : igh !<t:mdards will not be low- <·red to acrept les.s dNlicated .. .-orkers.\ ~~=-~~========== Girl Raped In Fie·ld House; Suspects Flee \Vhoopo;;l Alcofribas Nasier, 4762, a long- time resident of Metropolis, was found prostrate this mol'lung in the gutter in front of the Green Lantern Cafe. His death w.as att1~ibuted t() waiting for seven full months fm· the light to change on the corner of White Aven11e and Olsen Street. Officials of the Department of Traffic admitted tha.t \some com- plaints have been received about that particular signal.\ ere.\ We promised that we would and hopped ,the gate back into sanity, that the ~<Walk signal wll:ed to the traffic light was aH Mown out.\ She said that she missed the lig-ht, especially during the evenings when she works. \I feel kinda boxed in without it,\ she said. Residents of the White Avenue- 0 Jsen Street area say that the nulfunctloning light is enticing hooligans into the neighborhood. \L~t 'em come,\ Miss Slutrow h:.ud, \as long as they-ve got the cash. Andy Foxhole, owner of the Green Beret Bookshop, predicted tlmt the break-do-wn of the tJ:af- fic signal would only lengthen the wat· in Vietnam. \It's proba- ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ bly all part of the well-known, often documented eommunist con- spiracy,\ he said. \Bill B11ckley is a Judas.\ 1\-Ilss Slutrow said she worked in her apartment on a piecemeal basis, Red Light Not all the local population 1.v.as quite so enthusiastic Orville A colorful traveler through the , . III ickenlooper, prea-cher at the urea, known to residents only Ul'l Let em Come Save a :Million SouLs Or Bust! Lucky, ·s<:~id \Given the existence FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7'-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE \Complaints hell,\ retorted Hal Jordan, (}wner and proprietor of the U-See-It Exotic Dancers' Supply Sh(}p, when told the news. \\V e been bitt:hin 'bout that light near on t' forty year o' more.\ N. Q. Shylock, director of the ~]tytlunie Chm:ch, predicted :'un-1 as uttered forth in the public maintenance division ()f the De· n-ersal damnation and suffermg\ works of Puncher an~ Wattmann partment of Traffic, could not be for all tho~e wh() did nothi_ng to of. a dl~ne god quaquaquaqua reache<l. for comment. His as.sist- ~top the mflux aJld hooligans. w1th. wh1te beard 3uaquaqua9ua, ant, Susan Sontag, reported th,at . :May tl;~y a}l rot und7r the Lord· nothmg t.o be done. . He ~e;clme~l \the Traffic Department is mov. ll heat! , satd Rev. H1ekenlooper. to reveal the true 1dentrtJes of ing \Vith all deliberate speed to \lMB;Y they nev~r. enter t~e,garden Puncher .~nd W B;ttma_;nn. \That's correct this situation. In fact, fe~·tlltzed by d1vme dung. 11; ,secr.et, he. s~1d. 'Do you be- one might say that we have de· fhe day was further ~arred heve m magic. .._ ____________ _ clared a War on Imperfectio 11 • by tragedy when Rev. IIICken- Piecemeal W alit We hope in the near future to lo.oper choked and collapsed. ~e. bring all units withi:n. @t' domain· w:as ~aken to near-by Metr()polts Other resittents of the area Yoiced similar complaints. Tes- sie Slutrow, 36, who described her occupation as «the satisfact~on of indigenous human needs,\ said up to the same standard.'' H.osprtal, ?nt was pr~nounced dead on arr1val by attendmg phy- l\'Iiss ,Sontag, who is canp counselor during the summer, de- scribed that standard as \medio· REDWOOD DRIVE IN 2688 HAMBURG STREET - 5 Min from College HOrDOGS with Famous Sauce CHARCOAL HAMBURGERS and CHEESEBURGERS 1 0 Oz:. Charcoal Broiled Steak Din~ner-1.35 - OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK - 1 1 :00 A.M. - 12:30 P.M. Sun. - Thurs. Till 2:00 A.M. Tues sic::ians. \Not even Superman :e»uld help him now,\ Que doctor. ga,id. TilDe Cenl~;r JEweiE.-s YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME HENLEY PHllERfA 1 35 ERIE BOULEVARD Let the lager lreely flow. Down to Louis', let us go~ The parliClllar aliment here cJiagnosed Ia the urae to collect shirts of the Henley breed. It is easily treated• by a vldt to thl1 Establishment~, extensive collection of such garmen!.ll-and the purchase of a wardrobe of aliilie. ConsultatiOu. dally. Boulevard Bowl l2 AMF BOWLfNG LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PR-EMISES A unique plac::e to dine with old Etiropean Atmosphere NICHOLAUS R,ESTAURANT Since 1895 - Comer 266 State and Erie Blvd. ' Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations .pile>ne FR 4-8917 from .C.OO DAVE'S ~quir~ ~lfnp ~ 3/~. s:,~ ~:o1~· 7'ues.· & Tlluri. 8 flt- 'f ·Vol. 95- 1 The l AU-Co !leg mitted by basically year. The ( pl'oved by TheE ('an go in hoped tha Joe S dent Mar harassme1 Kuhl emp rides. Sigm. abolition ternitie£ I spections, a list of ~ party. Di Council tc Hunt, workshop tives will One 1 chasing A This The'se pol program. ence in co Pre-regio the new t be conduc month. A complE already de the Facult: Mor Fedj Of l At the held last I fessor of 1 lege, discu tory on An relations. In his le ians, and I ton noted t icy maken however, \\ ed objectb This was c ndministrat knew that edge of hi> as advisor> Pl'Of. Mo were well an acute b presidents tive to hi! for exam] F:thiopia a: Korea. l though not reading· in in contrast ian, especi: cal biogra: A America' scribed as felt that f• conscious tions as J U. S. has foreign afl' ence was~ tion was · thing\ rat] idea. Am their stab <'hange. Professo of our idea ed during tionist att have a \1 mind us o Conti

