th; Edit.orials: Laws, Levi's & Schedules Skidmore Calendar Page 2 Founded at Union College D. '' ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~------------------------------------------------------------------ of ' in the Lanes was won .• Niagara and of Gaxnet 1 of 223. Erianne, er, 10!8. Garnet 1 year .and their re- National ,j i I i i i Dl of age. II ·I I I i I 'I \ ·\ I I ! I II Vol. 96 - No. 25 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1967 PRICE 15 CENTS Eight '69ers .l Will Spend Year Abroad The St. Andrew's Exchange Com- mittee has chosen Larry Pedowitz '69 to be the Union exchange student to St. Andrew's l.JnlVerslty in i:lCOtland for the 1967-68 academic year. Also to study abroad next year are Alan Klein, who will go to Israel; Don De- Michele (Switzerland), Richard Mar- shall (Great Bntam), Juuan Ce1ke (France), Robert Barandes (Great Britain), John Crawford (Great Britain); and Larry Spivack (Great J:sntam). Although all students are permitted to apply tor the ~t. Andrew's l!.;x- change, the facuUy-student commit- tee headed by Dean Lockwood ex- tended twenty-five invitations to out- standing members of .the sophomore class. Fourteen students replied, and were interviewed by the selection committee. Academic record, extra- curricular activities and. the impres- sion the candidate leaves with the committee are of primary importance to the final selection. Lockwood Comments Dean Lockwood commented on the difficulty of choosing one outstanding student for the honor, and observed that \year after year, I, as weJ.l as others on the committee, can not help but be struck with the quality of the people interviewed.\ ETH, the other Union College for- eign study program, has chosen Don DelVIiChele to go as exchange student to Zurich, Switzerland next year. This program carried an added re- quirement. The student chosen must be fluent in German and be studying in the sciences and engineering. Al- though there is no specific limit on the number who may participate, these qualifications tend to eliminate those students who have not prepared to meet them. Dean Lockwood com- mented that in the future this paxtic- ul!if~~x:change program may be ex- panded to include those students ma- joring in other fields. Friends Program Alan Klein '69, from Dallas, Texas, plans to spend his Junior year at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Klein, associate news editor of Con· cordiensis, will enroll under a one- year program sponsored by the Amer- ican Friends of Hebrew University. Last yeax, 123 students from Amer- ica were chosen to spend a year at that .forty-one year old institution. In 1948 the Unversity moved from LAWRENCE PEDOWITZ, St. Andrew's Scholar ALAN KLEIN, Concordiensis Associate News Editor, Headed for Israel. its original site on Mount Scopus to a group of rented buildings in Israel. Ten years ago, construction was be- gun on a new campus. Ever since he has entered college, Klein has planned to spend his junior year abroad. When asked why he chose Israel, he stated \Like most American Jews, I have sympathies there and I feel this program will give me a more intensive insight into Un·ion 's Phi Beta Kappa H-aitors Fifteen- Seniors Tlie ·union CoUege .chapter of Phi Beta Kappa has elected 15 seniors at the ·· College to membership in the select honor fraternity. The Union chapter, founded in 1817, is the oldest New York st~te chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, which 'I founded ~t th;e ~<?lle.ge of Wil· 1 ·. & Mary m Vngwa 1n 1776. :,':ith-e students elected: -:Wayne W. Thompson, history; tion. The society was the first Greek let- ter fraternity founded in th~ Uni~ed States. It was a secret society w~th qaths handshakes, and mottos, w1th the purpose of stimulating philoso- phical and political discussion. In 1875 the society opened its doors to wom'en and at the same time changed its function from a debating society to an honor society for upperclass- men. Conflict on Social Rules Results In New Request By BILL BltEIMAN The political maneuvering to adjust parietal hours continued this week as t-he liberalization proposals were back in student govternment organi- zations for further hasseling. After much debate it was decided that the disparity in the rules pro- posed between fresh~nen and upper- classmen should be rtemoved. As the proposal now stands, J:eady to be tak- en before the A.C.C, meeting on May 11, all students will be allowed to have female guests in their rooms from noon to 8 P.M. from Monday through Thursday and on Sunday. No gaps axe included. On week-ends, students will be permitted to entertain guests from noon until 2 AM. and to 3 A.M. on party weekends. The IFC met Tuesday to determine what proposal they would offer to the A.C.C. on May 11. It was decided that Sunday parietals should be noon to 8 P.M. for freshmen and noon to eleven for upperclassmen; noon to 1 A.M. for freshmen on weekends, 12 to 2 A.M. for upperclassmen on regu- lar weekends and noon to 3 A.M. on party weekends. A:ll students would be able to entertain women guests from 4 to 8 P.M. on weekdays. The Student Council met last night to discuss the suggested change in the social rules, and finally proposed that social hours for aU students be ex- tended to 2 A.M. on non-party week- ends, 3 A.M. on pavty weekends and from noon to 8 P.M. on weekdays and Sundays. Two weeks ago, the Council had unanimously approved a proposal, which entailed extending the social hours to 3 A.M. on week· ends and creating new parietals from 1 P.M. to 6 P.M. on weekdays and on Sundays. This plan was then sub- mitted to the All College Council for final approval. Last week, the A.C.C,, however, deferred the proposal back to the Student Council and to the Union Inter-Residence Council and Inter-Fraternity Cotli1cil, for further consideration. It was hoped that these institutions both would discuss the effects of amending the social rules with specific regard to fresh- men and those not dating and would attempt to unify the IJroposals among themselves. The Student Council appointed a special committee to .analyze the situ- ation in light of the A.C.C. recom- mendation. The committee staffed by Frank McKim, Don A.bood, Ray Pike, Mike Berlowitz and Bill Boehmke, presented their amended proposals at HAPPENING Nott Memorial will be the scene of a Spring \Weekend 1fappening\ spon- sored by the 1968 Union College Gar· net. The yearbook's editor, Jack Stokvis, is hoping that nearly 1000 Union men and their dates will gather at the Memorial at 1 P.M. Satilrday, May 13, for an informal half hour. of dancing and socializing. The pur- Pose of the \happenhtg\ is to ta~e an aerial photograrh of the weekend crowds. A helicopter for the event is being provided cowtesy of WTRY News. The editors plan to run a four· page color fold-out of the happenihg. last night's. meeting. They decided to extend the parietal hours of upper- classmen to 2 A.M. on week-ends and to 3 A.M. on party week-ends and no later than 1 A.M. for freshmen. They all felt that female visitors should be allowed in students' rooms from 4 P.M. to 8 P.M. on weekdays .and from noon till 8 P.M, on Sundays. The elimination of the \5 to 7 rule\ was also included. At the beginning of the meeting Senior Frank McKim defended the committee's proposals. He said the \inconvenience of roommates in dou- ble rooms\ at the freshman level was the committee's primary motivation in creating a disparity between fresh- men and upperclassmen. He felt that since freshmen do not choose room- mates, as do upperclassmen, problems can be created when one member o:f a double wishes to entertain a female guest. Junior Robert Winner sup- ported McKim's stand on freshman hours. \What is in fact the problem is that we don't know the social en- vironment from which the freshmen came. It might not be wise to extend the hours of the freshmen as far as those of the upperclassmen.\ Win- ner, however, took opposition to the committee's proposal to concerning weekday parietals. He believed that the AC.C. would support a 12 to 8 rule instead of the proposed 4 to 8. Senior Martin Pinson believed there should be no discrimination against freshmen. He held that increasing the double standard of rules con- cerning restrictions placed on fresh- mel) and upperclassmen increases the freslimen's separation and alienation from the college in generaL Another senior, Robert Marshall, countered this argument by claiming that the dichotomy in the social hours would not make a significant difference since freshmen are already denied certain privileges, such as cars, mem- bership in fraternities, etc. Student Council President Benjamin Volinski asked the members of the committee why there were no \gaps\ in the hours, to prov_ide time for showers or a change of clothing_ Sophomore Dick Rosener replied that they were unnecessary since students take show- ers during parietals hours anyway. He expected the members of a living unit to use their discretion and im- agination in this case. The motion concerning extending the hours on weekdays from noon to 8 P.M., replacing the 4 P.M. to 8 P.M, proposal, was passed by a majority vote. In suppoding this motion, which he introduced, Winner stated: \I think it's already been pointed out that the A.C.C. will vote for a 12 to 8.\ He claimed a straw poll taken at an A.C.C. meeting revealed that there was almost unanimous support for the 12 to 8 weekday pareitals. The only dissenting vote came from Dean Pollock. Volinski warned that this could be significant since Pol- lock could very well be representing the administration's viewpoint. He stated: \President Martin has indi- cated that he won't accept anything before 3 P.M.\ He might, therefore, use his power of veto in this case. Win- ner countered by contending that he believed no harm could be done to the A.C.C. if President lVlartin employed his veto. In fact, he believed that this action might make Martin ap- pear a \villian.\ After the motion was passed, McKim asked for justifi- cation of the amendment, since he is to present the Council's finalized decisions before the A.C.C. on May 11. Senior Mike Berl<>witz felt that \we don't have to invent reasons. There might be an opportunity two or three times a year, that you have a date during the afternoon. If you can handle the resp()nsibility, then the possibility should exist.\ Congressman Henry Reuss To Consider Ombudsman Rep. Henry S. Reuss, now serving his seventh term in the House of Rep· resentatives from Wisconsin's fifth congressional district (including the northerll portion of the city of Mil· waukee) will deliver the Edgar T. Brackett Lecture this year on May 8 at 4:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. He will speak on the \The Ombudsman.\ Ombudsman Proponent -- Reuss is the proponent pf an ad- ministrative council or \American Ombudsman\ which would allow for improved handling of citizen's com- plaints of bureaucratic injustice while freeing congressmen to perform their legislative functions. He has also in- troduced legislation that would create an ombudsman board to protect the rights of federal employees. He was the first to propose what later became the Peace Corps. A stu· dent of Central and Eastern Euro· pean affairs, R.euss is also an author· ity on Latin American economy and food production. A conservative in Congress, Reuss has nevertheless been a strong sup- porter of Civil Rights legislation. In this c()nnection, he supported the re- cent Civil Rights Bills and legislation opposing the invasion of personal pri- vacy by the government. Presently, Rep. Reuss is Chairman of the House Banking and Currency Committee's subcommittee on Inter- national Finance, the Government Op- erations subcommittee on Research, and the Senate-House Joint Interna- tional Exchange and Payments sub- committee. Cornell Grad Reuss was born in :Milwaukee, Wise. .on February 22, 1912. He graduated from Cornell University in 1932 and Harvard Law School in 1936. He served as special prosecutor for Mil- waukee County, and won the Bronze Star during three years in the army during World War II. His foreign experience includes \vork as deputy general counsel for the Marshall Plan. He is also the author of the book \The Critical Decade: An Economic Policy for America and the Free World.'' l) & Carl E. Feigenbaum, history; Laurence B. Briskman, Blues Project Sparks Weekend This lecture will be a convocation. is philosophy; Robert W. Milder, English; Ronald A. Powell, physics; Morton A. Kamzan, biology; Paul S. Sherwin, English; John H. Hess, history; William P. Liebowitz, physics; Charles E. Hoag, economics; Edward V. Schwiebert, economics; Dominic L. Poccia, chemistry; Robert A. Rosenthal, mathematics; Glenn D. Gilmore, liberal arts and civil engineering; and James C. Leyhane, science.~­ Phi Beta Kappa is almost exclusive- ly an academic honor. The only strict rule for membership is that the indi- vidual must be in the top ten per cent of his class and in a program leading to a B.S. or a B.A. degree. Character is a decidedly secondary considera- The Blues Project and Otis Redding will be the feature entertainment re- spectively Friday and Saturday n}ght of Spring Weekend. The combmed ticket for the Beachboy's concedt or tickets for both concerts, priced at $7.50 and available at Student Ac- tivities Office or from Dormitory or Fraternity representatives, will admit the bearer to these concerts. The Blues Project, who appeared recently at Albany State, are among the most versatile and dynamic groups around. Their music defies descrip- tion, ranging from folk-rock to soul, from rock-and-roll and blues to jazz, \ all blended together to produce a. tre· lfiendously wide spectrum of music. Otis (with one (T') Redding, sing- ing soul, pop alll! gospel in his own inimitable style Will. star the show . . Saturday night. His ·mo:v.ing styles i~ real. It is also pErso~al ~nq md~­ comes as naturally and normall.y~ to vidual, and at the same time 1t Is um· him as crying to a baby. His souiid·..,_,_~al. Anyone who listens to Otis ~ Redding understands his message. That, perhaps, is the real meaning of soul. It is co-sponsored by the Political Sci- ence department and the Internation- al Relations Club. WEEKEND. At 8 :00 p.m. Friday night, in Memorial Chapel, various campus instrumental groups Vlill present a concert featuring a new composi· tion by Frank T. Darmiento, a Senior in Mechanical Engineering. \Con.certo for Modern Jazz Quin· tet and Orchestra\ will require the joint .efforts of Union's Jazz Work· shop and the New York Student Orchestra under the direction of Edgar Curtis music professor. The Wo()dwind Quintet, the Brass Choir, and two other ensembles from the Workshop will perform other works,

lJl h in the Lan~s was won Niaga:ra and ersity '()f ., I p Gamet ' of 22:3. Erianr.te, lOlB. Garnet year and their r-c· Natioll.al of a~e 1 d s d Editorials: Laws, levi's & Schedules Vol. 96 - No. 25 Eight '69ers Will Spe~nd Year Abroa~d The St. Andrew's Exchange Com- mittee has chosen Larry Pcdowitz '69 to be the Umon exchange student to ::,t. Andrew 'i lmlVCl'SllY Ln :JC(:)Uanc.i ror the 19o7-68 academic year. Also to study abroad next year are Alan Klein, who will g0 to Israel; Don De- :viicheie (Switzerland), Richard l\lar- shull (Great Braum), Junan Ce1ke (France), .Hobert Bar andes (Great Bntam), J0hn Crawford (Great Britain), and Larry Spivack (Great l:$ntam;. Although all students are permitted to apply 1or the ::.t. Andrews hx- change, the faculty-student comlmt- tee headed by Dean Lockwood ex- tended twenty-five imitations to out- standing members of the sophomore class. Fourteen students r-epued, and >vere interviewed by the selection committee. Academic record, extra- curricular activities and the imprcs- :;ion the candidate leaves with the committee are of primary importance to the final selection. Lockwood Comments Dean Lockwood commented em the tlifticulty of choosing one outstanding student for the honor, and observed that .. year atter year, I, as Wl!tl as others on the comnuttce, can nul help but be struck with the quality of the peo pie interviewed.\ ETH, the other Union College for-- eign study program, has chosen Don DetVlichele to go as exchange student to Zurich, Switzerland next year. This program carried an added re- L!Uirement. The student chosen must be fluent in German and be studying in the sciences and engineering. Al- though there is no specific limit on the number who may participate, these qualifications tend to eliminate those students who have not prepared to meet them. Dean Lockwood com- mented that in the future this partic- ular exchange program may be ex- panded to include those students ma- joring in other fields. Friends Program Alan Klein '69, from Dallas, Texas, plans to spend his Junior year at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Klein, associate news editor of Con- cordiensis, will enroll under a one- year program sponsored by the Amel'- ican Friends of Hebrew University. Last yea!', 123 students from Amer- ica were chosen to spend a year at that forty-one year old institution. In 1948 the Unversity moved from Founded at Union College Skidmore Calendar Page 2 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1967 PRICE 15 CENTS LAWRENCE PEDOW!TZ, St. Andrew's Scholar ------------------ --- ALAN KLEIN, Concordiensis Associate News Editor, Headed for Israel. ----------------- its original site on 1\'Iount Scopus to a group of rented buildin~s in Israel. Ten years ago, construction was be- gun on a new campus. Ever since he has entered college, Klein has planned to spend his junior year abroad. When asked why he chose Israel, he stated \Like most American Jews, I have sympathies there and I feel this program will give me a more intensive insight into Conflict on Social Rules Results In New Request By BliLL BREil\'IAN The poEtical maneuverin.g to adjust parietal hours continued this week as the liberalization proposals were back in student government organi- zations for further hasseling. After much debate it was decided that the disparity ill the rules pro- posed between freshmen and upper- classmen should be removed. As the proposal now stands, ready to be tak- en before the A.C.C. meeting on May 11, all students will be allowed to have female guests in their rooms from noon tlJ 8 P.M. from Monday through Thursday and on Sunday. No gaps are included. On week-ends, students will be permitted to entertain guests from noon until 2 A.M. and to 3 A.l\L on party weekends. The IFC met Tuesday to determine what proposal they would offer to thr A.C.C. on May 11. It was decided that Sunday parietals should be noon to 8 P.M. for freshmen and noon to eleven for upperclassmen; noon to l A.M. for freshmen on weekends, 12 to 2 A.!\I. for upperclassmen on rei;u- lar weekends and noon to 3 A.!\1. on party weekends. All students would be able to entertain women guests from 4 to 8 P.l\T. on weekdays. The Student Council met last night to discuss the suggested change in the social rules. and finally proposed that social hours for all students be ex- tended to 2 A.M. on non-party week- ends, 3 A.!\1. on party weekends and from noon to 8 P.M. on weekdays and Sundays. Two weeks ago, the Council had unanimously approved a proposal. which entailed extcndint:: the social hours to 3 A.M. on week- ends and creating new parietals from 1 P.M. to 6 P.M. on weekdays and on Sundays. This plan was then sub- mitted to the All College Council for final approval. Last week, the A.C.C .• however, deferred the proposal back to the Student Council and to the Union Inter-Residence Council and Inter-Fraternity Council, for further consideration. It was hoped that these institutions both would discuss the effects of amending the social rules with specific regard to fresh- men and those not dating and would attempt to unify the proposals among themselves. The Student Council appointed a special committee to analyze the situ- ation in light of the A.C.C. recom- mendation. The committee staffed by Frank McKim, Don Abood, Ray Pike, Mike Berlowitz and Bill Boehmke, presented their amended proposals at last night',; meeting. Thcv decided to extend the parietal hours· nf upper- classmen to 2 A..\1. on week-ends and to 3 A.l\I. on party week-ends and no later than 1 i\..l\l. for freshmen. They all felt that female \'isitors should he allo\\'ed in students' rooms from 4 P.M. to 8 P.:\1. on weekdays and from noon till 8 P.l\1. on Sundays. The elimination of the \5 to 7 rule\ was also included. At the beginning of the meeting Senior Frank McKim defended the committee's proposals. He said the \inconvenience of roommates in dou- ble rooms\ at the freshman leHl was the committee's primary motivation in creating a dis )Oarity between fr-esh- men and upperclassmen. He felt that since freshmen do not choose room- mates, as do uoperclassmen, problems can be created when one member of a double wishes to entertain a female guest. Junior Robert Winner sup- ported l\lcKim•s stand on freshman hours. \What is in fact the problem is that we don't know the social en- vironment from which the freshmen came. It might not be wise to extend the hours of the freshmen as far as those of the upperclassmen.\ Win- ner, however-, took opposition to the committee's proposal to co ru:Nning weekday parietals. He believed that the A.C.C. \vould support a 12 to S rule instead of the proposed 4 t<J 8. Senior :\lartin Pinson believed there should be no discrimination against freshmen. lIe held that increasing the double standard of rules con- cerning restrictions placed on fresh- men and upper-classmen increases the freshmen's separation and alienation from the coli ege in general. Another senior, Rubert .l\Iarshall, countered this argument by claiming that the dichotomy in the social hours would not rr,ake a significant difference since freshmen are already denied certain privileges, such as cars, mem- hership in fratenlltles, etc. Student Council Pre::-idl·nt BPnjarnin Vulinsk1 aslwd the !llt'illbL•rs of thl' commilt<'l' wlw thNl' ,, ere no \~aps\ in tlh• hours, to provide time for showers or a change of clothing. Sophomore Dick l{o~L'lJ('r rcplll'tl uwt tht•y \H'fl' unnPeL\ssarv sinee students takl' slHl\1- crs during paridals hours anyway. He cxpedcd the members of a living unit tu usc their discretion and im- agination in this ease. The motion eonecming exh•ndinb the hours on weekdays from noon to 8 P.l\1., repbeing the 4 1'.:\l. to 8 P.!\1. propu~al, was passed !Jy a majority rote. In supporting this motion. which he introduced, \\'inner stated: \l think Jt'~ already been pointed out that the A.C.C. will vote for a 12 to 3.\ !le claimed a straw poll takl·H at an A.C.C. mct'ting revealed that there was almost unanimous support for the 12 to !3 weekday pareitals. The only diswnting rote eame from Dean Pollock \'olinski warned that this cou.ld be ~ignificunt since Pol- loc-k could very well be representing the administration's viewpoint. He stated: \President Martin has indi- cated that he won't accept anything before 3 P.l\1.\ He might, therefore, use his power of \'toto Ill thJs ease. WIn· ncr countered by contending that he believed no harm could be done to the A.C.C. 1f PresldL•nt Martm l'lllployecl his Yeto. In fact, he lJelie\·ed that this action might make :\lartin up- pear a \villian.\ After the motion was passed, :\lcKim asked for justifi- cation of the amendment, since h'' is to present the Couneil's finalizl'd decisions before the AC.C. on l\Iay 11. ScnirH :\like Berlowitz felt that \\\ e don't haYc to im·ent reasons. There mi~ht be an opportunity two or three times a year, that you hav<' a date during the afternoon. If you can handle the rt•sponsibility, tlwn the possibility should rxist.\ Henry Reuss Congressman To Consider Ombudsman Rep. Henry S. Reuss, now serving his seventh term in the House of Rep- resentatives from Wisconsin's fifth congressional district (including the northern portion of the city of :r.m- waukee) wiLl deliver the Edgar T. Brackett Lecture this year on May 8 at 4:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. He will speak on the \The Ombudsman.\ has nevertheless been a strong sup- porter of Civil Rights legislation. In this con 1ection, he supported the re- cent Civil Rights Bills and legislation opposing the invasion of personal pri- vacy by the government Union's Phi Beta Kappa --~--- --------- HAPPENING Ombvclsman Proponent --- Reuss is the proponent of an ad- Presently, Rep. Reuss is Chairman of the House Banking and Currency Committee's subcommittee on Inter- national Finance, the Government Op- erations subcommittee on Research, and the Senate-House Joint Interna- tional Exchange and Payments sub- committee. ~Honors Fifteen Seniors Nott Memorial will be the scene of a Spring \Weekend Happening\ spon- sored by the 1968 Union College Gar- net. The yearbook's editor, Jack Stokvis. is hoping that nearly 1000 Union men and their dates will gather at the Memorial at 1 P.M. Saturday, May 13, for an infor-mal half hour of dancing and socializing. The pur- pose of the \happening\ is to take an aerial photograrh of the weekend crowds. A helicopter for the event is being provided courtesy of WTR. Y News. The editors plan to run a four- page color fold-out of the happening. ministrative council or \American Ombudsman\ which would allow for improved handling of citizen's com- plaints of bureaucratic injustice wl1ile freeing congressmen to perform their legislative functions. He has also in- troduced legislation that would create an ombudsman board to protect the rights of federal employees. The Union College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa has elected 15 seniors at the College to membership in the select honor fraternity. The Union chapter, founded in 1817 is the oldest New York state chap'ter of Phi Beta Kappa, whi~h was founded at the College of Wil- liam & Mary in Virginia in 1776. ihe students elected: Wayne W. Thompson, history; Carl E. Feigenbaum, history; Laurence B. Briskman, philosophy; Robert W. Milder, English; Ronald A. Powell, physics ; Morton A. Kamzan, biology; Paul S. Sherwin, English; John H. Hess, history; William P. Liebowitz, physics; Charles E. Hoag, economics; Edward V. Schwiebert, economics; Dominic L. Poccia, chemistry; Robert A. Rosenthal, mathematics; Glenn D. Gilmore, liberal arts and civil engineering; and James C. Leyhane, science.\ Phi Beta Kappa is almost exclusive- ly an academic honor. The only strict rule for membership is that the indi- vidual must be in the tt>p ten per cent of his class and in a program leading to a B.S. or a B.A. degree. Character is a decidedly secondary considera- tion. The society was the first Greek let· ter fraternity founded in the United States. It was a secret society w~th oaths handshakes, and mottos, w1th the purpose of stimulating philoso- phical and political discussion. In 1875 the society opened its doors to wom'en and at the same time changed its function from a debating society to an honor society for upperclass- men. He was the first to propose what later became the Peace Corps. A stu- dent of Central and Eastern Euro- pean affairs, Reuss is also an author- ity on Latin American economy and food production. A conservative in Congress, Reuss Blues Project Sparks Weekend The Blues Project and Otis Redding will be the feature entertainment re- spectively Friday and Saturday n_ight of Spring Weekend. The combmed ticket for the Beachboy's concedt or tickets for both concerts, priced at $7.50 and available at Stud~nt Ac- tivities Office or from Dormitory or Fraternity representatives, will admit the bearer to these concerts. The Blues Project, who appeared recently at Albany State, are among the most versatile and dynamic groups around. Their music defies descrip- tion, ranging from folk-rock to s_oul, from rock-and-roll and blues to Jazz, all blended together to produce a tre· mendously wide spectrum of music. Otis (with one (T') Redding, sing- ing soul, pop and gospel in his own inimitable style w)ll star the show . , . . Saturday night. His moving styles IS real. It 1s also personal and mdi- comes as naturally and normally to vidual, and at the same time it is uni· him as crying to a baby. His sound --y.ersal. Anyone who listens to Otis ---- Redding understands his message, That, perhaps, is the real meaning of soul. Cornell Grad Reuss was born in Milwaukee, Wise. on February 22, 1012. He graduated from Cornell University in 1932 and Harvard Law School in 1936. He served as special prosecutor for Mil- waukee County, and won the Bronze Star during three years in the army during World War II. His foreign experience includes work as deputy general counsel for the ~iarshall Plan. He is also the author of the book \The Critical Decade: An Economic Policy for America and the Free World.\ This lecture will be a convocation. It is co-sponsored by the Political Sci- ence department and the Internation- al Relations Club. , ... WE·I!\·.. ·' · ·- .:: ., . ~ ' ·~·\ J;•/ : ' . :~· -~-r-:-. ';~ At 8:00 p.m. Friday night, in Memorial Chapel, various campus instrumental groups will present a conce1-t featuring a new composi· tion by Frank T. Darmiento, a Senior in Mechanical Engineering, \Concerto for l\lodern Jazz Quin· tet and Orchestra\ will require the joint efforts of tTniou's Jazz Work- shop and the New York Student Orchestra umler tlte direction of Edgar Curtis music professor. The Woodwind Quintet, the Brass Choir, and two other ensembles from the Workshop will perform other works.

2 EE $ociety Still Kicking 13y ROBERT BARKAN Eta Kappa Nu, the national \!lectrical engineering honor society, was approved for re- activation at Union by the All College Omncil at its meeting of April 6. However, the fac- ulty has yet to consider the matter at its own meeting, and there is some possibility that its decision will reverse that of the ACC. Such a reversal would leave the Phi Chapter of Eta Kappa Nu, established at Union in 1927, inactive. It has been so since about 1938, when the fac- ultv voted to exclude all hon- oniry societies, with the excep- tion of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi, from the college. New Interest In, 1~60, interest arose in es- tablishing at Union a chapter uf Tau Beta Pi, the national ~nginecring honor society. Its prop()nents argued that engi- neering students who merited recognition were honored by memberships in Sigma Xi, an organization relating to the physical sciences; that an hon- orary society should be estab- lished which would recognize outstanding students in engi- neering only. After consider- able discussion, the New York Mu chapter was established at Union. Last fall James D. Palmer, Dean of Science and Engineer- ing, received a letter from the national headquarters of Eta Rappa Nu requesting that the College consider reactivating its chapter Palmer and the De- partment of Electrical Engi- neering approved. In addition, President Martin and Dean Lockwood each wrote to the na- tional headquarters of Eta Kap- pa Nu expressing their ap- proval. With the sanction of the administration apparently well-established, the department forwarded the names of sixteen electric:al engineering students to the national offices of Eta .Kappa N u, and at the end of December these students receiv- ed letters informing them of their nomination and of the pwposed plans for the reacti- '\'ation of the chapter. The Ranquet That Wasn't During the winter the nom- inated students elected officers and proceeded with plans for the reactivation and initiation ceremony, which was to have been held after a banquet on march 31. Meanwhile, Dean Pol!()ck: informed Lockwood that considerable debate had attend- ed the establishment of Tau J3eta Pi three years earlier. Lockwood then realized that to go ahead with the plans without bringing it to the attention of the faculty might be inadvis- able. Neither he, President Martin, or Dean Palmer, had anticipated any adverse reac- tion from the faculty, not hav- ing been at Union during the previ{)llS co.ntroversies. At a meeting of the ACC, on April 6, Professor T. R. Hoff- man, chairman of the EE dept., presented the arguments for re- activation of Eta Kappa Nu. \V orth while Organization Benjamin Volinski, chairman of the ACC, acknowledged that Eta Kappa Nu was shown to be a worthwhile organization, but he was uncertain whether it was within the province of the ACC to act on the matter. Pro- fessor Goble pointed out that the best way to establish just what the ACC was empowered to do would be to use the \ex- perimental approach\ i.e., to assume they were empowered to act and to approve the peti- tion. The Council concurred, approving of Eta Kappa Nu and passing it on to the faculty for its co11sideration. At the faculty meeting April 13, there were two issues to be resolved by the faculty regard- ing Eta Kappa Nu: whether the ACC was empowered to approve of such an organization, and \vhether Eta Kappa Nu should be reactivated at Union. On the first question a senior fac- ulty member from Center I, who bad been involved in the discussions over Tau Beta Pi, voiced his opinion that the ACC had no jurisdiction in the mat- ter. He stated there was \no doubt iu (his) mind\ that the faculty had sole authority to consider the establishment of an honorary society, referring to the charter of the ACC, which implicitly, he said, reserves the tight to judge on \academic af- fairs\ for the faculty alone. The CJUestion was tabled until the faculty meeting on May 11, Group Rescues Italian Art By LEN KAGAN \The November flood that swept across Italy cut a path of destruction through our own cultural heritage.\ So says CRIA-the Committee to Res- cue Italian Art, an organization that arose spontaneously among a group of art historians, cura- tors, and conservators who share a deep concern for the art and culture of our civiliza- tion. Within a matter of days, this personal cemmitment was transformed into a nationwide volunteer organization . which has taken an active and leading role in helping to save the se- verely damaged paintings and libraries of Italy_ Branch Chapter Shortly before Winter Recess, Prof. W. Dean Eckert, repre- senting the Union Art Depart. ment, v.Tote to CRIA concern- 1ing the possibility of setting up a . branch chapter here at Union. Four weeks ag0 a student-fac- ulty committee was formed. In addition to Pr0f. Eckert, the active members of the commit- tee include Prof. Paul Le Clerc, Fred Schreiber, Len Kagan, Martin Loperena, Frank Burns and George Kates. This group . has already planned two even- ings of films on campus, as part of a fund raising drive for CRIA. On Saturday evening, May 20, a festival of silent films will be presented, including old Key- Council Elects Ritterbush Steve Ritterbush was elected Student Council representative to the All College-Council this Wednesday on the third ballot of a caucus of the new Student Council. In the final ballot Ritterbush defeated Alan Zieg- ler, 12·8. Other candidates were Jay Ira Cohen, Tom Flynn and Gerry Grau. Ritterbush is President of the Class of '68. After the election he expressed his views on the functioning of the ACC. \I feel the ACC is now the focal point of our campus life-the place where the major decisions con- cerning Union are made. In short it is a place of action. The All College Council has a great deal of potential-a potential which exhibits a new feeling which has grown here at Union during the past two years. I ran for the ACC in order to be- come more deeply involved in the activities of Union College.\ Ritterbush has also been ac- tive in varsity sports, as a dorm counselor, and formerly as a fraternity member. Foreign Study • • • Continued from Page 1 Israel than just going as a tour- ist.\ The fact that his parents spent last summer in Israel also influenced his decision. After leaving here on July 31, he will devote his first three months to an intensive language course. The remaining nine months will be devoted to two history courses (needed to receive cred- it from Union) and courses in Israeli Political Science, arch- aeology and Hebrew. He hopes to see some of Eu- rope before coming back in July '68. Concordy will still benefit from Al's assistance as he plans to send articles even if he does have classes on Sunday. when the faculty will decide whether an honorary and ser- vice society is entirely an \aca- demic affair,\ as well as con- sider the reactivation of Eta Kappa Nu in particular. The chances of faculty approval are uncertain. Professor Lowen felt that \people would want to be informed,\ and that a decision would only be reached after considerable discussion. A sen- ior faculty member from Center II guessed that the faculty \would protest the decision of the ACC,\ but declined to spec- ulate further as to what subse- quent action the faculty might take. A statue of the Madonna over-looks the damage of the floods in Italy. stone Cops and Ben Turpin clas- sics, with a live musical accom- paniment. In addition, a CRIA film entitled \Florence Days of Destruction,\ narrated by Rich• ard Burton and directed by Franco Zeffirelli, will be shown. The second evening, a Shock- er, has been planned for Friday, May 26, with a showing of \Hor- ror of Dracula.\ Both films will be shown at 8:30 in Memorial Chapel. Admission is a $1.00 donation to CRIA. 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard 'Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES SENIORS Will you find the right job next year ... the one with the right salary, right company, right op· portun ities for advancement? Why not let an employment specialist help you help yourself? Only a professional employment service can stay abreast of all facets of the business world, including sales, engineering, finance, marketing, and management. Wqritl!Utt.Allrn 1\grnry guarantee 5 a greater probability of finding the most ideal em- ployment position. One resume is used with many firms, so your qualifications are exposed to a broad- er segment of industry. More than one job oppor- tunity will await you upon graduation. As many as a dozen job offers per person have been secured th rougll our services. Your whole livelihood depends on the type of employment you are able to find. S'hou·ldn 't you con- sult us? Convenient appointments can be arranged. Simply call Peter Ryan at 434-5121 ft4att !\Urn PERSONNEL PLACEMENT, INC. AGENCY 100 STATE STREET Suite 900 ALBANY, N.Y. 434-5121 ABSOLUTELY NO RISK OR OBLIGATION! Thursday, May 4, 1967 Thursday Ou ·SKI OMORE · · . .. .. Senior Gains State Stipend I'ri£lay, 7 :On: Movie, \The C~ptain \ ~ from Koepenlck,\ sponsored by the Skidmore Movie Commit- tee, College ·Hall. Carl E. Feigenbaum '67 has become the first Union College winner of a Herbert H. Leh- man Fellowship for graduate study. satUI\day 7:30: •senior Vocal Re- cital, Pamela Scharmann, Class N of 1967, Coliege Hall. Suppos save the heard fia1 us snidel: at Vietna at Hawail have the Californi< Reagan,\ see they\ chev thin1 6:30: *Vesper Service, College Hall. The fellowships, established by the state legislature in ho.nor of the former senator and gov- ernor, go to students in social sciences and public and inter- national affairs. 7:00: \Evolution of the Soul,\ David Humphreys, instructor - .. 4 in English, Slddmore College, speaker; spon.sond by the Re· ligious Discussion Gwup, Rec- reation Center. Lehman Fellows may win up to $5,000 for four years of grad- uate study. Monclay, 7:1<5: :Movie, \Woman in \. the Dunes,\ sponsored by the • I will c: Doom anc that Vietr Class of \6S College Han, ad- 1 mission chavg'ed. Welinestlay, 7:30: Junior Class ·• ) Now, A \opponen· \Commun since I we that does pass off ~ they ther: you're ju sense of r about the derstand acy.\ RFK Intern This year's competition, the second in which the fellowships were awarded, drew 1,560 can- didates. Of the 90 winners, 55 were residents of the state. show, College Hall. l Thursday, 7:30: Concert by Skid- more Madrial Singers, Star- buck Center (New Campus). 8 :30: Senior Drama Seminar Pro- ·)1· .J duction of \The Miracle Work- 1 er.\ presented' by Lee Lockhead Little Theatre. Feigenbaum, who completed his degree requirements in March, was a political science major at Union. He will repre- sent the College this spring as an \intern\ working in the Washington office of Sen. Rob- ert F. Kennedy (D~-N.Y.). He plans to do graduate work in the field .of East Asian studies. I 1 1 rlday, 7:30: FUm Presented by 1 Sl~idmore :Movie Committee, '1 \Point of Order.\ College Hall. . Let the laser freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, Raturclay. 8:00: Joint Concert, Sl~idmore Cl'>llege Freshman and Dartmouth College Fresh· man Glee Club, College Hall. 8:30.: Senior Drama Seminar Pro- duction presented by Yvonne Wltzinger \The Chinese Wall,\ Little Theatre. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 First Choice Of The Engageables REGISTERED ~psake® DIAMOND RINGS They like the smart styling and theguaronteed perfect center '~~~~~~~{~~r~~~~~ diamond ... a brilliant gem of fine color and modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in your ring assures lifetime satisfaction. Select yours at Y<?Ur Keepsake Jeweler's store. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ PRICES FROM $.100a TO $SOOO, RINGS ENLARGED TO SHOW BEAUT'/ (If DETAil.. ® TRADE-•URK REG, ft. H, POND COM?ANV, lltC. 1 ESTABUSIIED f89 2 , 1 --. --------. ----- HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT ANO WEDDING I j Please send ne\:' 2,9-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- 1 ment and Weddmg and new 12-page full color folder both for 1 only 25c. Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-pa!Je Bricte's Book. I 1 Name J Address. ___________________ _ lc~ I I State ip I ~E::s~ ~A~~~~~~~· ~RACUSE. ~~. ~O:.J Since I w:Hl atten speaking of the id1 fought as ist Consp a realistic Let's as that there acy plotti1 revolution ~~~·':.·lJ It's my greatest c that the 1 richest co '1.. · men and stop a sm from goir thirteen ) .! ' fore us, 1 I the same I ''· I. •• I I I ·I Despite accompan Cong defE \on the \ that Comr year. Thi the Depa promised has failed confirmed Our C01 realize th tions that our dome: portions 1 much mm we haves in the his Yet, in , 1 1 ,. we've sue attrition; more yea dollars. J defoliatinJ prowess e plant, re-1 Therefo ,. , reaction t proved to the .worl< would fe€ U.S. certl happenin~ Communi: best time every cou •J .) wouldn't b@on de p~jally v <I~wnr.ight \'~.: ,; The fa< .. pened shE munist 0 would be U.S. in a Dl Enjo· Cooked Comfo Open Sundays D. Sf 151

4, 1967 Captain by Commit- Thursday, May 4, 1_967 On Conspiracies~ Cotnmies and Disneyland By ALAN ZIEGLER 3 Backlash: The Sly Stnile Vocal Re- Class li 11. Supposedly, our PURPOSE in Vietnam is to save the world from Communism. We've all heard flag,draped proponents of the war inform us snidely that if we didn't stop those Commies at Vietnam, then pretty soon they'd be surfing at Hawaii. And then, bless my soul, we'd better have the Minutemen manning the beaches of California because before you could say \Ronald Reagan,\ they'd be infiltrating Disneyland (You see they've always had a grudge since that Khrus- chev thing. . . . ) And if the U.S .. gets really tough and finally wins in Vietnam, what's to stop the Communists from just skipping to t:he next country? Looking rea.Jistically, (ah it feels so good to say that), the U.S. effort is a morale booster to every Com- munist guerilla in every little country, because they know it can't happen again. $60 a week per peasant. Needless to say, this money would come right back into the U.S. econ- omy since the Vietnamese would, of course, start buying all kinds of deodorants and mouthwashes so that they wouldn't \offend\ American tourists. So this would help both of us. By »ON ABOOD College .Soul,\ instructor College, the Re- Rec- Woman in by the BaH, -ad- Class by Skld- Star- Campus). Pro- acle Work- i I will attempt to wade through this morass of Doom and point out the absurdity of the notion that Vietnam will be able to stop. this onslaught. Also, it is estimated that every enemy corpse costs us $300,000. Now, it seems to me that we could buy them off for considerably less. This would also be a very \American\ way of doing things. Then why isn't all this being done? A facetous answer is that the various builders unions in Vietnam are lobbying to keep the War going so they can get work re-building villages and churches, etc. Symbolic Display The cleanest expression is that which finds no sphere worthy of itself and makes one. -Walt Whitman Leaves of Grass by , ! ·! Eal'l. Now, America's Nco-Patriots have sluffed aside \opponents of the war\ either by sayin~ we're \Communist Agents and Dupes\ (which I'm not since I wouldn't work for any government) or, if that doesn't dscredit us, (after all, it's hard to pass off so many people as being Communists), they then look sympatheticaHy and say, \Well you're just a misdirected idealist who has no sense of reality, who doesn't know the hard facts about the world situation, and who doesn't un- derstand the Nature of the Communist Conspir- acy.\ However, there's a much more tragic reason than that. The War is being fought more as a symbolic display to the American people than as an effective deterrance of Communism or altru- istic act to South Vietnam. All these years Wash- ington's P.R. men have been creating the Great Communist Menace, and how can they claim that a menace exists without actively fighting it. So .. in the words of the old philosopher, \If you ain't got no Commies to fight, well then. by God you got to find some.\ Whitman was talking about poetry and writing at a time when grass still meant green lawps. However, vewing last week's CBS News Specral, \The Folk Rock Revolution,\ made Whitman's thought immediate. CBS commentators hesitantly admitted something is happening in this gener- ation. although, like most everyone else, not sure exactly what, and concluded, to the sounds of Dylan's \The Times Are A Changing,\ tl?-at even if youth values have not gone before a JUry, so- cietv has decided the new music is not all bad. Which depending on how you see it, is a possible score for our side, or simply another establish- ment handout of tolerance. .i.\lost of the program .focused on the Sunset Strip clubs, and featured sucJ: notable~ as The Hollies, Herman and the Hermits, and T1m Buck- ley who looks like Bob Dylan, and comes on stronger than the other two groups, simply be- cause he is not as much of a crowd p1easer. The Hollies make some noise and couple it with love lyrics and Herman smi.Ies his simple sixteen y~ar smile and sings about milkbottles and the girls have a first orgasm singing in auditorium seats. Concert, Freshman ege Fresh- Hall. Pro- Y-vonne Wall,\ ph ere I 1 for 1 I I I Since I've often been accused of the latter, I wHI attempt to turn the tables (metaphorically speaking of course) and accuse the proponents of the idea that our action in Vietnam is being fought as an effective deterrant of the Commun- ist Conspiracy of being idealistic and not taking a realic;tic view of the situation. Big Plot c Let's assume, for the purpose of this argument, that there is some kind of World Wide Conspir- acy plotting to take the world by subversion and revolution. How would they feel about Vietnam? ' ,11:,·1) It's my opinion that Vietnam would be their greatest encouragement because it has proved that the United States, the most powerful and 1 richest country in the world cannot, with 450,000 '1., · men and two billion dollars a month, adequately 1 stop a small, geographically insignificant country from going Communist. We've been there for thirteen years and one must remember that be- . i , fore us, the French tried unsuccessfully to do 1 the same thing. I ,, Despite the U.S.'s mammoth efforts, which are accompanied with much ranting raving about Viet Cong defections and statements about us finally \on the way to winning the War,\ it is a fact that Communist forces have increased in the past year. This is a fact and it may be confirmed by the Department of Defense. Also L.B.J.'s un- prornised escalation, bombing North Vietnam, has failed to seriously affect infiltration (this was confirmed by MacNamara). I I •• I Our Communist World Wide Conspirators also realize that the War has reached such propor- tions that it drastically cuts into every one of our domestic programs. It has reached such pro- portions that every three months we spend as much money in the pursuit of war in Vietnam, as we have spent in the pursuit of peace in the U.N. in the history of that organization. Output Yet, in spite of this tremendous output, all ,t , we've succeeded in doing is to create a war of ! · attrition; a war that can only be won with many more years, many more lives, and many more dollars. A war that can only be won when our defoliating, bridge destroying, and baby burning prowess exceeds the rate that the enemy can re- plant, re-built, and re-create. Therefore, I would think that the Conspirators' , reaction to Vietnam would be that the U.S. has · proved to be impotent in its. attempt to police the . world by fighting ideas with guns. They would feel that after the fiasco in Vietnam, the U.S. certainly wouldn't dare run the risk of it ' happening again. Indeed, if I were running the Communist Conspiracy, I would see this as the best time to go all out and start taking over every country in the world. The U.S. certainly ..l wouldn't be able to shoot 450,000 men and two bi1lion dollars a month into every country, es- P~ially when victory is not only uncertain, but <i~ym.rJght dubious. ¥. \rhe fact that this massive assault hasn't hap- pened sheds doubt on the existence of any Com- munist Conspiracy, because e\·en they certainly would be perceptive enough to see they had the U.S. in a rather tenuous position. ·- ----------- - -- President Johnson in his usual position. If our purpose was merely to win the Viet- name~e to our side there would be a much more effe,chve \'-:ay to do it than our \mercy killings.\ We ve decided that the Vietnamese would rather be dead than Red and humanitarians that we are we're doing all we can to help by giving them doses of \napalmis euthanasia.\ Someone figured that if we divided all the money we were spending in Vietnam equally among the peasants, it would come out to about RECORD :.:· ... ,;; Therefore they transformed a basically nation- alistic revolution into a crucial strategic move of the Communists, and then set out to stop it. Un- fortunately it got out of hand; it was not as easy as Washington thought it would be. Perhaps we convinced the Communists of Viet- nam's importance and thereby caused them to go all out in support of the War. Indeed, it was our piecemeal escalation that drew North Viet- nam and China as much into the War effort as they are today. But at least the War accomplishes one thing: It eases the fears of countless Americans who can now relax in their split levels, content in the knowledge that \Our boys are out there clean- ing up the world, and for the time being Disney- land is safe.\ Idealistic, aren't they? REVIEWS Words More serious groups like the Blues Project The Jefferson Airplane, and The Blues Magoo, were either ignored or unavailable. Interviews with the Hollies and Herman pointed out only one thing, the emphasis today is words. And people are listening to the words. Camera and microphone recorded thoughts of the young, love, peace brotherhood, without any mention ·Of the bomb' supposedly hanging overhead, the reason cited in popular periodicals for the past three years as an explanation for youth rebellion. Aside from a sociological press, the last time I the bomb mentioned was oy a guy trying to his girl . three sand dunes over from me on a beach. Telling her there was no time. ~ut ~ow the bomb as a symbol is dead and so 1s tlme. General terms like peace and its opposite have replaced the concrete megaton. As for time, to- day is not soon enough, and now means a second. The thesis of the rock groups, during the pro- gram was music is a way of life and a revolu- tion in itself, and the musicians are leaders of revolt. What they are saying has influence. B~t ·x;::.;.:;,.;,_.:.:u;w.~,u: .. J.::::· .. ·.~ ... \.. By CLIFFORD SAF ANE if CBS had wanted to look more closely at therr subjects, they might have taken a walk through Jazz is the Love's instrumental ability. Unfortunately, Haight-Ashbury, talked with Ken Kesey and this doesn't compensate for the rest of the album some Merry Pranksters, interviewed the Hell's 0Fnette Coleman, 'The Empty Foxhole (Blue (although \Emotions an instrumental, is very Angels, watched the Jefferson Airplane and stud- Note) -Coleman has to be considered on~ of the good). ied the Grateful Dead, a group whose organ play- great~st musicians of our time. He is such a Love, Da Capo, (Elektra)-The Love's second er looks like Peanuts' Pig Pen, and gone on a b~autiful person because he plays what he feels album is much better than their first. However, food hunt with Emmitt Grogan and The Diggers, w1th such strength and dignity, the same problems are present in the vocals. for thls is an outgrowth and integral part of the . And h!s music literally breathes with life. It Elther they are rushed, or are sung in poor voice. folk rock world. Music and LSD. Music and love. Is free m that. bar lines, key signatures, and But the songs are so much more clever and Music and society. Perhaps CBS felt that Ram- chord progressions .are usually avoided Yet originaL parts in the March issue had already done a fine there aren't any wasted sounds or flashy effects' job of describing a new attitude) or possibly they Just pure music. Listen to \Faithful\ one of the The highlight of the album is \Revelation an were relying on being unconvmced that some- most beautiful tunes I've ever heard. One has instrumental which takes up one side of the thing is happening below the surface appearance to be made of stone n~t to be moved by it. record. It is a stunning performance with every- of mod clothes and mustaches. The drummer on tll.e record is Ornette Denardo one turning in good performances. This cut ~oleman, age .ten. Wh~t a musician. One must shows that rock musicians can be creative instru- Compromise simply hear him, for he plays drums like no one mentally, and there is no excuse for them not else. being so. For the CBS report was a compromise. Its An excellent alburn that should be heard by emphasis was on mass appeal and popularity of everyone. Because of \Revelation I recommend the the groups shown, and it was a safe report in Wayne Shorter, T11e All Seeing Eye, (Blue album. that it upset no one's patterns of God and Mother Note)-This, too, is a good record, although The Doors, (Elektra)-The Doors are an ex- and law, by voicing its issues with a sly smile that somewhat less \free\ than the above album. tremely tight group. They are good musicians, in time all will return to normalcy. Shorter style falls s<>mewhere between the ex- and get good sounding instrUmentals as well as !rerl!e avant gayde ~nd po~t .bop. And his play- vocals. Their songs are all in the currently fash- But the patterns are being rearranged. More mg IS fresh, while still retammg the roots of jazz. ionable bag-you know, angry put down songs so, they are being destroyed, in a quiet revolu- But the rhythm section is perhaps the high- touches of Indian music, and weird effects. I'm tion that fights with pacifism and speaks softly light of the album, with drummer Joe Chambers not saying that songs shouldn't be played, hut in through electric amplifiers, warning few people producting one of the crispiest sounds that I've the case of the Doors, I wonder about their to stay out of its way, yet in its extreme push- ever heard (listen t() the title tune). He really sincerity. ing old gods aside. Finding no traditional Ian- pushes the soloists, and. makes them create. Yet However, there are some good performa11ces guage compatible with its ideals it creates its he never gets in their way. on the album. \Break On Through (To the Other own. If the bomb was once a symbol of fear, the Side)\ is a nice sounding hard rock tune. \Ala- jukebox is now a symbol of dissatisfaction and ~ock bama Song\ is an extremely clever and enjoyable courage, strange only to those who can't hear. tune (it is interesting to note that this isn't an As for the fear that remains, it is not fear of Love, (Elektra)-'l'i:J.is is one of the worst original, but was written by Weill-Brecht). And dying, it is a belief that life is more valuable rock albums that I've ever heard. The lyrics of \Light My Fire\ is a great instrumental . than dying for unfelt motives imposed by a the songs arc inane and childish. But what If you don't mind not hearing anything new, system slowly losing its reason and humanity. malres them even worse is that Arthur Lee and this is for you. As for myself, I'll have to say Critics say youth as yet provides no alternatives. Bryan Maclean don't know how to sing a song· that the Doors are a good group and have the Maybe it's that we've lived so long with conven· besides they simply don't have voices. ' potential to be something special when they start tional humanism we don't yet know how to be --~~~~,%~:~~~~.e~r~.~t~o~.~=~:~~~~~:~e;.;:~:~:~.~~~r;!;g;~~?~.~.~.~.;.;.~=======~p~e~o~p~~==~~~============~ RELAX! ~ FERRO THE PEANUT PLAY BILLIARDS AT t D E w I T T , s PHARMACY STORE DIAMANTE'S ') ' 4 Enioy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room JAY BILLIARD ~ 575 N.ott Street LOUNGE ~ Cafeteria and Tap Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street 167 Jay Street ~ Schenectady, N. Y. or ~ Fine Food and Legal Beverages FR 7 _ 0510 Featuring PLANTE!lS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS FAMILY BILLIARDS Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. 1615 Union Street Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. Special student rates D~BROSE CLEANERS SHIRTS 22c - SUITS 98c ...,_ PANTS 49c Student Discount on All Dry Cleaning 1517 Van Vranlcen Avenue FR 4-5193 f ~ 118 - 120 JAY STREET ~4 ...... ..._ L.A..A. ............. A~4 4 A 4 A, A .A. 4 4 A 4 A 4 4 A 4 4 .................................................. • See EUROPE FOR AS UTILE AS $449 including hotels FUGAZY TRAVEL BUREAU 434 State Street 374-4111 or Call JACK ETKIN, Fugazy Campus Rep., Chi Psi 346-9829 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE ~.EWEST and Nutrneats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. LIJ\'--CH 11.5 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES -TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 19 21 ] Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A..M. - 4:00 A.M.

4 Letters To Published Thursdays durin!> the scnooa year by the Student Body of t:n!on Colle..-e, Schenectady, N. Y. Nat!ona·l ' • t. • \\' • • ~ A ··-..:;_ - . I Advertising Representative: National Advertising Sei:'Vice, Inc.. College Publishers Representative. 420 lllndl· sGn Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Ofttce, Old Gym, L' ulon Cui lege, Pul>licatlon Office. St'henectuuy Printing Company. 502 131\Uadway. Entt.'rtod ·In the Schenectady Post 0!- flce as Second Class J.\lull l\lu.ttoa. Subscription l&c a COllY: $8 a ~tt'l11 delivered anywhere in the r nited States. SENIOR BO.\RD I-;unor-in-l ,hit- 1 Business :\lanagf'l '68 .. 372-413i .. ' ' .... 346-98~9 ...... JOSEI'll A. :.u:-;:o-;, Jll. JACK ETKIN '68 ... ROHI•:l1T STULZH'EHG 'GO . . ... ... .. . . . ... Euatnl\ l·:nwni'IIS· RlCHARD BALAGCR '69 ........................ 3~4-<US .............................. NL·ws l~uitor ALA~ zJgGL~H. 'ti!.t..... . .............. \Vuml•n':-; Pagl• Edltw CLIPF' SAI'A;'-;1.:: '6!1 ..... ...3n·9730 .............. Acting Jo'eatua·es Euitol\ UICIIAEL LEVlN-EPSTEI!'< '69 ......................................................... Sports Euitm JUNIOR BOARD Alan Klt'in • tit! .\ssoeiate ?\pws JOj;dltor Richard Jlattt'r~on. tlr. ''70 .. , ................ Ass't Xews Editor Dick Daniel '70 .......................................................................................... PllotographeJ l\larc Reubln~ 'fiS..... . . ............................. rhotographcr Gary Pre-vost '69 ........... .\ssodate StHJrts Editor t-.:eil S . .J{.ratner '70.... .\:-;.s't :\'lnnnging l~UH<n Peter Drotman 'GH. . __ );ational Atlvt>rhsing ~Ianaget George Volanakis '69 ................................................................ SuhscrlPtion :\lanageJ JoPl Ituhenzahl '68 .... Ass't r\'ational ALlvt~rtl~mg .1\.Iuna!-Id' He-nry Rine-s '59 ·····--···--························· ...................................... DistriLution ~lanageJ Paul Gerbt.lr '68 ..... . ............................................................ Circulation :!\-iana:;e-1 STAFF MEnffiERS NEWS: Ba·ian Holley, Len Kagan, Caa·l EngJebart. Hal Russ. Huy Frultei·mun. Neal Gordon, Bill Ba·eiman. Richard Rosenberg, Rich Gilmun. FEATCRES: Steve Fox. Scott Siegler. SPOl~T:S: ~!il<e Klayman. Jt>ff Ku1·zius, flurry Poret, Len Simon. Judicial Plethora At present, there are three judicial bodies on the Union campus: the Committee on Discipline, the UIC Judicial Board and the IFC Judicial Board. The existence of three such groups to judge the activities of one type of person, the Union student, is unnecessary and ridiculous. The activities of these bodies sometimes overlap, since fraternity men may appear before the UIC committee, and since both fraternity men and independent students may be brought before the Committee on Discipline. It would seem that a more reasonable arrangement would result if the activities of the three groups were unified and if mem- bers of this committee were chosen to represent the en- tire college community. Floyd Flatters To the Editor: My recent visit to Union Col· lege renewed my faith in a young, enlightened generation which will have to cope -with age-old problems of race hatred and misunderstanding. I was privileged to be able to address a group of students who, I am sure, will be better able to cope with these prob- lems than any previous gener- ation. Hopefully, there will be further opportunities for me to exchange ideas with the stud- ents and faculty on your ~am­ pus. Very truly yours, Floyd B. McKissick, National Director, C()RE Sigma Fries To the Editor: .... The following letter was to have been the third installment of a once-promising series 011 fraternities. As the Editor-in· Chief of Concordiensis has ask- ed that it not be printed as a regular features article, ~ven under the heading \Opiniol!l: I have no choice other that! to request that it be reproduced verbatim in this section. In the past, this author has attempted to help pave the way toward a new and better Con- cordiensis policy concerning fra- ternities-namely an impaltial, rather than a biased one. Un- fortunately, the new Concordy Editor is little better than his predecessor in this particular area. During this period -..vhen Union's fraternities stand at a crossroads, it is indeed disap- pointing to know that the cam- pus newspaper is still blindly biased against more than 60% of the student body. Speaking as an individu.al, a member of the Concordy staff, and in behalf of my own fra- ternity, Sigma Phi, I feel oblig- ed to register a measure of pro- test against the editor's recent illogical and twisted attack on fraternities. But rather than elaborate upon his er-roneous and biased adjectives, for they have already been refuted in a recent \Letter to the Editor,\ I would choose to make a pre- diction, as is perhaps fitting for the final installment of a series which had little chance of suc- ceeding simply because Con· cordy constantly and consist- ently puts fraternity news at the bottom of the list, when a decision must be made concern- ing what to print and what to emit. Recently the IFC organized its a1mual work project for fra- ternity pledges, who subsequent- ly participated in a spring clean- up at the local YWCA, and also helped the city to improve vari- ous sections of Central Park. Concordy's news department failed to even take note of this important community service. Is someone afraid to let the college community see our fra- ternities functioning in a posi- tive and constructive manner? Or shall we be satisfied to learn only of fraternity \outrages?\ But as the Editor himself re· marked, \A decision had to be made, and I felt that the other articles were all more newswor- thy.\ Could this be so week after week? I doubt it, and would further mention that this arti- cle, and a similar previous one, sat buried in a drawer of the Features desk for over a mcmth before room was found for it on Concordy's pages. I fully realize that within the past few weeks there has been a shortage of space, yet there has been room for book reviews, jazz reviews and photographic essays, but rarely fraternities. The editors, regardless of their own feelings and affiliations, seem to have forgotten that a majority of men on this campus are frater- nity affiliated, and fraternity men like to read about fratern- ity activities. Why then does a Anti-Levi-tisnt? Deansgate® Members of the college community who are in need of mild amusement can usually satisfy this need by visit- ing West College at dinnertime. There, one may find such an unusual combination as suit coat, tie and white dung- arees, or perhaps a purple shirt, (with matching socks) the almost-always present tie and jacket, and red cordu- roy slacks. One can, indeed, predict that most students will be wearing ties and jackets; but to predict what else may appear (barring, of course, shorts, clam diggers, kilts, blue dungarees and tights) is groping blindly in a realm of infinite possibilities. Many may be puzzled as to the reasons for discrimin- ating against blue Levi's. Could it be that the college owns stock in other companies? Or perhaps research has dem- onstrated that this color inhibits the production of gastric juices. We certainly hope that the Levi-Strauss organiza- tion is not the victim of anti-Semitism. Many more may be puzzled by the existence of such a rule in the first place. If it was designed to insure that students are well-dressed during dinner, it has failed. If it was meant to remind students that they are \gentle- men,\ at least once a day, then it has failed here also. En- forced requirements of this sort, which accomplish noth- ing meaningful, are seldom blessed with success. The dress rules at West College dinners are a farce: they are constantly abused and irregularly enforced. Their value in any case is negligible. We urge the administration to abolish them immediately. If the college's goal here is to create a desirable atmosphere for dining, then its goal is not being approached by such rules. A civilized, enjoy- able dining situation does not demand these dress require- ments; and no civilized institution should force individuals to respect such rules. Regression The college has recently made known its desire to ascertain whether students find the present system of course scheduling advantageous. Under these arrange- ments, the registrar's office tries to arrange class schedules which provide the majority of students with their primary course choices. Previously, class schedules were drawn up in advance and choices had to be fitted to the existing plan. If students do not make their feelings on this issue known, the administration plans to return to the older, less adaptable method. Obviously, this routine would allow students less freedom in planning their courses. Students may notify the administration of their feelings by leaving a statement, opposing or sanctioning a return to the old system, in Dean Pollock's office, Old Gym Hall. Luxu:m.\'y On A Hot Su:m.nmer Day This zephyr-weight suit is all quality. You see it. You feel it. And most important, it keeps its quality ex- pression throughout t:he day. Reasons: The fabric is a luxurious 50·50 blend of Fortrelli' polyester and Zan- trel® rayon. The tailoring is D.:ansgate's flawless soft shoulder construction. In a handsome arrnr of colors. $55.00 THURSDAY & FRIDAY TILL NINE Thursday, May 4, 1967 The Editor responsible newspaper restrict the coverage of such activities? I don't mean to imply here that I consider any art,clo of mine to be of a rnomenteus lit- erary nature, and therefore au- tomatically worthy .of publica- tion. This is hardly the case. But I have chosen to censider an important subject whiCh is all toe frequently designated \not newsworthy.\ It would ap- pear to me that fraternities are entitled to some representation on the pages of the campus newspaper-whose expenses are defrayed by a povtion of every- one's Student Activities Fee. Perhaps Concordiensis wouid enjoy greater popularity en campus were it to stop alienat- ing large segments of the stud- ent body. Perhaps then its staff would become truly diverse and representative of all groups on campus. I would point out here that after four years, a true fraternity comes to mean more to the individual than just a restaurant, a hotel or a social club. True fraternalism, con- ceived during the early 1800's and influenced by the spirit of the French Revolution, is a beautiful expression. Were this not so, alumni wouldn't support their college fraternities 40 to EO years after their o-wn gradu- ation. Needless to say,. the fraterni- ties have their faults and ex- cesses, as do all organizations. This is readily admitted, and the IFC recently held its an- nual workshop to help correct some of these faults. Discus- sions were held, ideas exchang- ed, and the result 1s lil{ely to be a somewhat improved system. Next year's rushing plans, for instance, may call for a renova- tion of past methods so as to give freshmen a better chance to ex,1ress a preference, rather than having to wait until they are chosen. (Incidentally, no news of this important campus event ever appeared in Con- cordiensis. • It appears that our fraterni- ties realize that a crossroads lay ahead. A wrong turn could mean the death of Union's daughter-the Greek letter soc- ial fraternity. After over 140 years, \':e must not permit this to happen here at Union. If asked to prove ourselves, we shall do just that. It shouldn't be d:fficu:t. There is an over- whelmingly greater amount of inherent good in the fraternity system than evH, regardless of what some may say. For I am convinced that they speak from ignorance, without knowing an the 111ertinent facts. They see what they choose to see-and nothing more. Without the intention of ap- pearing overly dramatic, I would predict that fraternities will be flourishing at Union when our sons and grandsons attend. Perhaps they will change and evolve over the ensuing years but they will continue to flour: ish and carry on Union's name The Mother of Fraternities. ' Leonard M. Kagan '69 Thursday, May 4: Mountebanks Production : \Mother Courage and Her Children,\ by Bertold Brecht, 8:30 p.m., Nott Mem- orial Theatre. I•'rlday, !\lay 5: Freshman Tennis; Union vs. Bard, a:30 p.m., Courts. Film Series : \Knife in the Wat- er,\ 7 :OD- and 9 :00 P=·· S.S. 16. Student Instrumental Concert, 8 :0(} p.m., Memorial Chapel. Mountebanks Production, 8 :30 p.m., Nott Memorial Theatre. Saturday, May 6: Annual Presi- dent's Review and Awards Ceremony, R.O.T.C., lO:CO a.m., Library Field. Debate; Union vs. Hamilton, 10 :00 a.m., Old Chapel. Prize Day Exercises, 11 :OO a.m .. Memorial Chapel. Lacrosse; Union vs. Clarkson, 2 :oo p.m .. Daley Field. Continued on Page 5 .. ARE YOU SURE YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE DOING? People in love have a crazy way of' getting wrapped up in each other and forgetting about everything else. So, unless you want to make a mistake, forget about love when you're buying a diamond ring. If you'd like some expert help, in fact, go see your ArtCarved jeweler. He has beautiful diamond rings from $150 to over $1000. Every one has a gemologist's evaluation inscribed on the inner band. Every one is guaranteed. So don't get emotional at a time like this. Get careful. If you don't know anything about diamonds, see your ArtCarved jeweler. He does . .k Carved® -See Dream Diamoud Rings only at these Authorized ArtCarved Jewelers- IN NEW YORK Amhurst REED'S JEWELERS Flushing GREENWOLD INC. Ithaca ALTMAN & GREEN JEWELERS New York City B. A. DITTMAN & CO., INC. Niagara Falls ltEED'S JEWELERS ... • ,, • ''! ., I Conj Freshm Cortl Field Freshm dlebl' Field Track; 3:00 Concer· mira p.m., Mount1 p.m., sunday, Servl Skldl Mem :\lomlay, Henr from buds 'l'llf'Sday, fred Mem Baseba p.m. Wl\dllf'Sd ion Alex Tennis p.m. out in~ Hale TIHU'S!la: nis; p.m. 1-'t'iday, l Mid der Fresh I Ster Film dee, and Conce 9:0( Saturda. vs. Dal• Co nee p.m Th tra tee Yo all tio1 bui A

1967 lay could SOC· r 140 this If we over- nt of 0£ I am from all see ap- be our and flour- '69 Mem- p.m., 16. 8:30 Presi- a.m .. a.m .. . .. INC. -· 'T ~ r;. ,. • • I ., J I ! I '1 Thursday, May 4., 1967 .. · CAl.;:E-NDAR · . Continued from Page 4 Freshman Lacrosse; Union vs. Cortland, 2:30 p.m.. Garis Field. Freshman Track; Union vs. Mid- dlebury, 3:00 p.m., Alexander Field. Track; Union vs. Middlebury, 3 :00 p.m., Alexander Field. Concert; Union College and El- mira College Glee Clubs, 8 !30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Mountebanks Production, 8 :30 p.m., Nott Memmtal Theatre. sunday, !\Jay 7: Parents Weekead Service, Dr. Thomas R. Davis, Skidmore· College, 10:00 a.m., Memorial Chapel. :\lon<la~·, May 8: Brackett Lecture : Henry S. :aeuss, Rep1·esentaUve from Wisconsin, \The Om- budsman, 4:30 p.m., S.S. 16. 'l'tu~sday, May 9: Convocation: AI· fred Kazin, Critic, 11:30 a.m., Memorial Chapel. Baseball: Union vs. Norwich. 3 ·oo p.m., Alexander Field. Wl'dnesday, :\lay 10: Baseball; Un- ion vs. Stevens, 3 :00 p.m., Alexander Field. Tennis; Union vs. Stevens, 2 :oo p.m.. Courts. outing Club Meeting. 9:30 p.m .. Hale Rouse. Tiltll'S<lay. 1.\lay 11: Freshman Ten- nis; Union vs. Northwood, 2:30 p.m., Courts. l't'iday, !Hay -12: Baseball; Union vs. Middlepury, 3:00 p.m .. Alexan- der Field. Fre.shman Lacrosse: Union vs . Siena, 3:00 p.m., Garis Field. Film Series: \My Little Chlca- dee,\ with W. 0. Fields, 7.:00 and 9 :OQ p.m., S.S. 16. Concert: \The Blues Project.\ 9 :QO p.m., Memorial Chapel. Saturday, !\lay 13: Lacvosse: Union vs. St. Lawrence, 2 :00 p.m., Daley Field. Concert: \Otis Redding,\ 8 :00 p.m., M•morlal Chapel. Sans Les Lois de Minerve? By NEIL S. KRAJ.OlR Not long ago a heated argument took place in which a .member of one of Union's most esteemed esoteric and fra· ternal societies vociferously defended the uprighteousness of his house and shouted that fraternities did not cheat on the social rules. There is no sure .answer to this controversy, since it is facile for any brother to cheat on the rules at his pleasure as long as in his carelessness, he doesnt wake up the house president, who may fine him for endangering the brother- hood. Independents, on the other hand, get General Proba- tion for- ·the first offense and a one way ticket back to Hemp· stead for the second. The reason that our fraternity defender can hold that the houses are upright while there exists .this discrepancy con- cerning their degree of enforcement is that no adminis· tration official has recently made a definitive statement vis a vis fraternity social rule enforcement as Mr. Laird recently did with respect to the r.esidence halls. 'Mr. Laird clid not clear the air much, since his memorandum to Dean Pollock, which was not released to the college com· munity, said that simply because there have been so few reported violations, there is no reason to believe that a lax enforcement posture did not exist. The double negative is not the only Jogica1l fault with this statement. More than a score of resident advisers, five faculty families, and Mr. Laird himself are dormitory residents. The only analogy in the fraternity h-ame of reference is the campus police, who patrol the college-owned houses to insure that any reruns of \The Demise of Kappa Sigma\ are well documented. · AU these inconsistencies lead to· an interesting conclu- sion: zealous fraternity boosters in high places have done nothing to clear up these discrepancies because they be- lieve that the undocumented legend of impunity leads to a lascivious appeal of fraternities for freshmen, which they belie\1e to be essential to their survivaL Ft-aternity men may squawk about false claims of lewd behavior, but un:til someone is willing to make a definitive statement with regard to fraternity enforcement of social rules and act efficaciously to insure that all Union men live under the same code, unvalidated claims of propriety amid campus-wide 'common knowledge' of consistent violations means only that a cruel hoax is being foisted upon Union College. Serving Union For 33 Years WANTED SilVER DIN'ER of Schenectady Banjo or folk singing group, plus piano player, to play evenings and weekends. ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 1 1 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere Call HE 9-5213 After 5:00 P.M. \'t'¥fttftifY4Jffftf'f'f'i'f'tTYt'Tffftft'¥ff'f'T'f*TTf'¥¥Yff'ffffYWtYTf'i'tfY'f.9fYfY+t. Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ::biamonJo ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported fo.r Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold fisher '50 .... , ......................... . SENIORS The General Services A.drninis~ tration is recruiting for Archi- tects and Engineers in New Y ark City and Philadelphia in all aspects of design, construc- tion and management of Federal buildings. Positions start at ARCHITECTS and ENGINEERS * CONSTRUCTION * ELECTRICAL * MECHANICAL GS,.S ($6387 per annum) or GS-7 ($7729 per annum) with provision for accelerated promotions to GS-11 ($10,481 per annum) $10,481 Additional details and facts abQU.t Gen- eral Services Administration may be obtained at your Placement Office. Send resume to Personnel Officer, General Services Administration, 30 Church St., New York, N. Y. 10007 or call Area Code 212-264-8295 to arrange for per- sonal interview. AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ~· .................... ·~ ........................... ... 5 Admissions Policy: Scales Tip to Balance Bob Dylan once wrote about a small town politician that \he's out there preachin' in front of the steeple-tellin' me he loves all kinds of people- he's eatin' bagels, he's eatin' pizza, he's eatirr' chitlins.\ He might have been singing about the stereotype of any American college's director of admissions. In this epoch of armchair lib· eralism, we have come to expect an admissions officer to look at all applications with the wide- eyed innocence of a Billy Budd. Yet that is impossible, for it has become necessary to bend over backwards in order to at· tract qualified Negroes. Racial bigotry is not only disadvantage- ous from a public image point of view, it is dangerous from a political one. Every high-cali- bre college and university in the nation has decided to run the race of pursuing and cap- turing college-bound Negroes. And panting Union toils after them in vain. 'Elastic Requirements The difficulty arises from the fact that an institution of the stature of Yale University is willing to elasticize its entrance requirements in order to accept Negroes, some of whom would not have been accepted had it not been for their skin color. If Union College did not relax its admissions requirements it L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. ~yracuse, N.Y. 13210 would face the problem of di- rectly competing with schools which are generally considered more desirable, and the results would, no doubt, <be disappoint- ing for this college. Thus the problem· presents itself as a two-pronged question. Should Uniou drastically reduce its en- trance requirements for Negro applicants, in order to enroll a greater percentage of Negroes, or should Union continue to wage an unsuccessful skirmish with schools which are gener- ally m0re highly regarded than ours? The answer is by no means clear-cut, and yet one wonders if another alternative might not be tried. That any college or university should intentionally lower its entrance requirements for . a person sim- ply because his sldn is a differ- ent color seems to be diametri- cally opposed to Dr. Martin L. King's simple request for color- blindness. Black Power To accept a Negro for the u·n· important fact that he is a Ne- gro is to be just as bigoted as to refuse an applicant for the same reason. Instead of being concerned that Union enrolls enough Negroes to avoid sus- picion and making certain that our token Negro is pictured in the Union College bulletin min- gling with his white friends, why not simply forget the en- By SCOTT SIEGLER tire issue? The fact that the admissions committee never sees the applicant's photograph does little to substantiate the fact that our admissions com· rnittee pays little attention to an applicant's color. It hardly takes an imaginahve person to guess the race of an applicant who lives in Harlem, belongs to the Abysinnian Baptist Church, and is an active mem- ber of HARYOU-ACT. And if percentages prove anything, it is apparent that the admissions office keeps an unblinking eye on percentage of Negro stud- ents, since the figure recently hovers between 11% and 14~~. Religious Quota Rumor often drifts around a college campus of certain rig- idly enforced and tightly fixed religious quotas. Mentioning the phrase \religious quota\ in a college admissions office es- tablishes a rapport similar to the rapport which would be es- tablished if the phrase \de facto segregation\ were mentioned at a White Citizens Council meet- ing in Philadelphia, Mississippi. When confronted with one set of reported quotas for Negroes, Jews, and Catholics, Pearson labeled the rumored apportion- ment system \ridiculous This is the second article in a series on Union'S admissions policy. M.ICHAEl ROTH'S RESTAURANT & LOUNGE OF UPPER UNION STREET FULL COI:JRSE DINNERS $1.75 AND UP NEW YORK STYLE JUMBO DELICATESSEN SANDWICHES AT ALL TIMES ENTERTAINMENT NIGHTLY: BeautifuJ Go-Go dancer Suzy from Miami Beach Modern Jazz Friday and Saturday Night. Special to Union Students: No cover or minimum. 10 per cent off on all food and drinks. • • With Mohawk's Weekends Unlimited it;s C aper to go home this weekend than to stay at sch;ool! Go-home costs Eat on Mom and Dad No Charge (They'll be glad to see you) Borrow $5 from Dad +$5.00 Use Dad's car No Charge (There's gas in it) See your best girl (This must be worth something) Weekends Unlimited air fare $25.00 (Fly all you want for $25) YOUR TOTAL COST $20.00 HERE'S HOW TO TAKE OFF! 1. Pick your weekend. Fare applies from 6 a.m. Saturday to 6 p.m. Sunday. 2. Check Mohawk's passenger schedule for weekend flights from your -city·. Then phone Mohawk or your travel agent for specific flight reservations desired. {Ex- cept Canada) 3. Ask for positive space reservations on the flights of your choice. Stay-at-School costs Meals $8.25 Satu rd.ay movie 2.00 Gas for the ~ar 2.00 Beer and pizza 2.10 (With the fellows) Miscellaneous 6.00 loss at gin rummy 6.00 YOUR TOTAL COST $26.35 4. Reservations must be made on the Wed· nesday, Thursday or Friday preceding your departure. The first leg of your jour- ney must begin on Saturday and the last leg of your trip must begin before 6 p.m. Sunday. REMEMBER, WITH WEEKENDS UNLIM· ITED YOU CAN FLY ANYWHERE MOHAWK FLIES AND BACK {except Canada), ALL FOR THE SAME $25, PLUS FEDERAL TAX. ~E~TRICTIOJI!S:. In offering the .tr~mendous savings .involved in the $25 Weekends Un· llm1ted fare, 1t 1s necessary to 11 m1t some of the options normal ty provided for our full fare passengers. The following restrictions apply: (1) The ticket is nonrefundable if any porti9n .has beer us.ed. (2) ~? more than 40°/~ of the total ticket value may be offered for se(VIces dunng 1rreguianbes. (3) The serv1ces of another carrier cannot be used if reroutmg becomes necessary. MOHAWK \WEEKENDS UNLIMITED I\

CONSPIRACIES, COMMIES AND DISNEYLAND Page3 Conc;ordy Sports SKIDMORE CALENDAR Page2 Ad11 F p La-w-rencetnen Trip Pratt, 8-0; Stickmen Defeat Bantams; Douglas, Toth, Olson Shine Face Clarkson Here Sat. By GARY PREVOST The Garnet nine, behind the strong hurl- ing of sophomore Joe Douglas, downed Pratt 8-0 Saturday to up its record to 2-1. Last Friday the Garnet were defeated at Williams, 4-3; a game with RPI scheduled for yesterday was postponed until may 20. Saturday at Alexander Field Douglas pitched eight shutout innings giving up five hits and five bases on balls while striking out eleven. With the Dutchmen leading 8-0 in the ninth, Coach Law- rence inserted sophomore Ed Widness, who pre- served the shutout. The Garnet scored in every odd frame against 0-4 Pratt with two in the first and third, three in the fifth, and one in the seventh. The Garnet scored in the first on singles by Greg Olson and Tom Miller and a triple by Bill Toth. Scoring in the third came on an error, and singles by Olsen, Toth, and Brien Gidlow. In the fifth three runs crossed the plate on four . walks, a double by Toth, and a Single by McAdams. Hourigan Walked In the seventh Dave Hourigan walked, stole second and third, and scored on an attempted pickoff for the Garnet's final tally. Union also loaded the bases in the fourth and eighth against Pratt, a team which beat the Dutchmen 6-5 a year ago. Statistics-3 Games Player G AB R H Pet. RPI Greg Olson .............. 3 14 3 6 .429 9 Brien Gidlow .......... 3 10 1 4 .400 0 Bill Toth ................ 3 9 1 3 .333 3 Bob McAdams -------- 3 10 3 3 .300 0 Tom Miller .............. 3 11 2 3 .273 2 Ptching Player B. Hallenback J, Douglas G 1P W L BB SO R ER ERA 2 11% 1 1 3 15 2 2 1.53 1 8 1 0 5 11 0 0 0.00 The Garnet lost a tough one to Williams last Friday when the Ephmen's Dick Mosher tripled and scored on a sacrifice fly to break a 3-3 dead- lock in the bottom of the ninth inning. Early lead The Dutchmen had opened up an early 3·0 lead with three runs in the third inning on two walks, a single b¥ Mike Soloman, a wjld pitch, and a two run smgle br Greg Olson. Williams came back with a run m the fourth off Union starter Gene Horning and scored two in the sixth to chase the Garnet righthander. Then lefty Bob Hallenback pitched hitless ball until Mosher's triple, but was forced to take the loss evening his record at 1-1. Steve Watson went the distance for Williams, giving up five hits, walking seven and striking out ten. Weather continues to plague the Garnet nine as Tuesday's scheduled game with RPI was first postponed to yesterday, but then wet ~ounds caused further postponement, and it w11l now be played as part of a doubleheader in Troy on May 20. The Garnet travel to St. Lawrence and Clarkson this weekend. Peter Pause Restaurant 535 Nott Street 346-9278 FINE FOOD Reasonable Prices The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Noon Pipe TUES. thru SAT.7 to 9 P.M. THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. Southpaw Bob Hallenbeck displays his style in a six-hit victory over Hamilton last Wednesday. Trackmen Down Larries, 100•44 By MIKE KLAYMAN After droppng last Friday's opener against Trinity, 75-70, the Garnet cindermen presented new head Coach Ron Coleman with his first Union victory Yesterdam, a 100-44 romp over St. Lawrence. This was the Garnet's first win in two seasons. Despite cold weather, the Garnet had little trouble with the Larries track. Junior A1 Ses- soms topped his already outstanding 20 point performance of last week by five. Sessoms cap· tured the 100, 200, and 440-yard dash, and ran anchor on the winning 440 yard and mile relay teams. His best times were 22.3 in the 220 and 52 flat in the 440. Garnet firsts were also taken by Larry Mac· Farlane, high hurdles; George Gardner, shot put; Are McCabe, broad jump, triple jump. and high jump; Ed Monfred, intermediate hurdles; Joe James, discus. other outstandng performances included John Peter's seconds in the 100 and 220, Neal Gordon's second in the 440 and third in the 220, and Chris :Brownell's third in the 880. The Garnet face Middlebury Saturday at 3:00 on the Alexander Field track. SONATA ••• FROM $200.00 ]au riceR, Q'rcmbarf~ons iRif JA'i :St J!WE . I WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393u0870 166 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. V. 12305 Registered Jewelers - American Gem Society l 'i By LEN SIMON The lacrosse team upped its record to 4-1 with an 9-3 victory over Trinity resterday. Last Sat- urday they defeated the Tn-City Lacrosse Club in an unofficial contest. Saturc;lay they host Clarkson at 2:00. Steve Ritterbush, Ken .Auerbach, and Larry Gillette were outstanding for the Garnet in the hard-hitting contest. Ritterbush led the scoring with two goals and three assists. Auerbach played a fine game in the goal, making fine save after fine save, particularly in the first quarter. With Union ahead 8-1, Trinity did manage to score twice in succession against Auerbach, closing the gap somewhat. ' Gillette played a fine hard nosed game on de· fense, CPl,lstantly turning back Bantam offensive threats. He also managed to score in the final quarter on a bt:eakaway. Other stickmen who scored a goal apiece were Sam Dill, Bob Seefried, Ware Fuller, Ken Milne, Tad Knight, and Gary Raden. Lee Schneider assisted on two goals, while Mike Walsh assisted once. through three . games with a 10-5 victory over Siena last Friday. They face the Cortland frosh Saturday at 2:30 in a home contest, possibly the toughest match ()f the season for them. Ron Wall and Pete Gurison scored three goals apiece to lead the frosh in the victory over Siena. Rich Swan and Steve :Bauer scored twice each to round out the scoring. Sports Shorts Bowling Senior Larry Martin, finishing strong with gam~s of 194 a!ld 219, missed. by ten pins of makmg the semi-finals of the National Intercol- legiate Match Game Bowling Championships at the Bowl-Mor Lan.es in New York City Saturday. ' . ' Uni~ To j The Clm its immediat~ senting a 13~ attituqes of t makeup of tl B!<!cause Department Dir:ector of . consider as from that gr the same. Union Tallied Twice Union tallied twice in the first period as Trinity was beld back by many key defensive plays. See- friend opened the scoring with his first tally of the season, and Ware Fuller followed with a well placed score. Martin totaled 1509 for the eight games and finished in eighteEnth place out of a field of the top 250 college bowlers in the Northeast. The , top fifteen madB the semi-finals. Five other ' : Union College bowlers competed. Their scores !. · Pearson the attractivE lng to Union is no prospe The second quarter featured much heated ac- tion, and many blown scoring opportunities as each team scored once. Milne's goal gave 'the Garnet a 3-1 halftime lead. The third quarter saw Union breaking the game. open with .four quick goals, widening the margm to 7·1. R1tterbush scored twice, then as- s~ted on a goal by Tad Knight, who also tallied his first score of the season. Sam Dill ended the scoring for the period with a difficult goal as- sisted by Schneider. ' After G~t!-\Y Raden. scored. early in the final qu~er, Trm1ty ~etaliated w1th two quick goals, closmg the margm to 8-3. The teams then bat- tled back and forth with no one able to score but th~ Garnet several times came within inches of adding to the lead. The final tally came on Gillette's breakaway to leave the final score at 9-3. Ritterbush leads Scorers Rtterb!lsh leads the scoring for five official games w1t~ eleven goals and six assists. Schneider has had s1~ goals and seven assists. Ken Milne and Sam Dill have six and five goals respectively. The freshman team remained undefeated were: Doug Vergith, 1374; Paul Gerber, 1373; Gary Prevost, 1:3'19; Tom Benedict, 1265; and AI Case, 1251. 1enns Union's young tennis team learned the hard way this week by losing to Hobart, Trinity, and Vermont. These three losses followed victories over Drew and R.P .I. Trinity was ver::v powel!ful, as usual, and it was only a fine performance by Marty Berry at sixth singles which prevented a shutout; the matches against Hobart and Vermont were both close, however. In an abbreviated match against l!obart, Union lost four of the six singles, with Sandy Levine and Len Duckworth emerging victorious. After losing first doubl-es, the score was 5,2 in favor of Hobart, and the Garnet left in order to return for the weekend eoncert. The Vermont match was well played, and was much closer thall last year's 8-1 Vermont run- away, as the Catamounts won, 6-3. Winners for the Garnet in the singles were Marty Berry and Chris Komisarejevsky, while Sandy Levine and Len Duckworth w<Jn in the doubles. The netmen travel to Hamilt()n Saturday, and return home Wednesday to face Stevens. For the new season, the Proprietor has prepared shirts from his authentic natural shoulder recipe. The clear, cool colourings here shown and the wide-standing t;tripes are amp..ng the most flavourful. Samples are available now. \' - · /!!-\' /' t4t 5.98 8: 7.98. ~quire j;flnp 326 STATE STREET •• tern's prestig The ave1 647 math as The drh .pay off/' ac< .! · think you'll: I out of state 1 I· I ' There w chose Union Promismg fr i track coach : ,I About 5 \( • rides the cr this phenom had been sit 1 . Pearson '· ' encourage £1 1 men to appl Office in Old will give the t \ education. l I application, the summer. the Admissi< .Spac lProf I' IJ\r. Edw~ Secretary of an ace a ;•_ Steir d~-May 17, _. Chapel. f{e of the Ae'to cation cr~(ii The Nat Snace Coun visory grou1 activities. F agencies as and Space and the At1 Dr. Welsh' ent positioJ Kennedy in -~~con BOt,n m I Welsh· hold: an M.A. frc ~_~ Ohio State. . on universi1 ing policie~ banking, i , finance, an 10 Welsh has ticles on ta trust and 1 vate enterp * ~ aid to bu United Stat program. In ·govet # X4 served on n economic a tion from Arthur for the develo u o<t prise in J1 · Steinr He is an a Fellow o ' _., tical Societ the Americ and ..Astron her of the v ciation, ap.c of the Ir Astronautic The pur) metz Lectu life and wo electrical Union's E: partment. Schenectad: College StL tute of Ele, gineers (1'.

, over frosh the Ron apiece , Rich to with ins of at and of the The other scores 1373; AI hard y, and it was sixth close, Union After favor was run. for and e and etmen home Admissions Policy Page 3 Vol. ·~ - No. 26 Founded at ·Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW 'YORK, THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1967 Parietals Page 4 PRICE 15 CENTS Union Opens The Gates To Huge Gaggle of '71 .Bailey Cup Goes To WRUC. Head Dick Ferguson Go:p Senator s.cott To Add:ress Seniors ' I ': ! l I .I I I· I , ,, i ,I •I By NEIL KRA.MER The Class of 1971 recently enrolled will not be significantly different from its irtmtediate predecessors except that it win be larger, its 434 meml)ers repre- senting a 13% increase over the Class of 1970. Some of the new directions and attitudes of the college are just beginning to make themselves apparent in the makeup of the entering class. Because there were more spaces to be fiiled than last year, the A.dmissions Department was anxious to take more gambles, and Jonathan Pearson HI, Dir.ector of Admissions expressed disappointment \that we were not able to consider as many disadvantaged students as last year,\ 'because applications from that group were lower while the total number of applications remained the same. SUNY Appeal Pearson attributed the failure of the number of applicants to increase to the attractive SUNY system, which, he believes discouraged people from apply- ing to Union and gambling $15 on the likelihood of a large scl1olarship. There is no prospect that this outlook will improve, since the public education sys- tem's. prestige is ever growing in the minds of prospective applicants:- -- - The average Scholastic Aptitude Score of the Class of '71 are 60i verbal - 647 math as opposed to 605 - 651 for the Class of '70~ - The drive for a more wholesome geographic distribution \is beginning to .pay off;\ according to Charles Johnson, Assistant Director of Admissions. \I think you'll see an improvement. We made an effort to get qnalifi~d bOys from out of state to apply.\ Among this group will .be the school's :firs~ Alaska~. Transfers Cite 3-3 There will be about 24 transfers admitted next year.\ The· majority of them chose Union because they found the new curriculum and· 3:3 calendar attractive. Promismg freshman athLetes have been enrolled i:Q;..soccer an\Cl··swimming. The track coach got all but one of the boys in whom hea;'\as interested. About 50 men will enter as political science maj\};rs this fall, as that field rides the crest of a wave of popularity among_fresliinen. Pearson described this phenomenon as temporary and commente(i ·that'~sociology and psychology had been similarly in vogue in recent years --., .. · ' Pearson revealed that he plans to ask·th\ members of the student body- to Richard Ferguson, '67, was awarded the prestigious BaHey Cup at the Prize Day Award ceremonies Satur- day, May 6. 'Ihe Bailey Cup is award- ed' annualiy to a senior for the great- est contribution te> the· college. Ferguson, active in Hale Club and Delphic Sec:iety, was recently suc- ceeded as President of WRUC radio hy Richard Reingold. During his term as president 'Qf the station, he was noted for his \constant concern for the welfare of the station.\ \He made a point of having a continuing knowl- edge of all aspects of running the ·station,\ said Paul Jacobson, a fresh- man disc jockey. Gary Abramson, .WRUG's __ P_rill(ram :mr_e(!t.Qr, r_emarked that Ferguson \made the station in1o a top-flight student 'llctivity-the most enjoyable student activity on cam- pus.\ Other Awards • At the ceremonies on Saturday, the~ George H. Catlin-awards of $1,000 eacli•-:we:nt to Ronald A. Powell, Paul S. Sherwin, . and Robert W. JVIilder. Sherwin als() received the Andrew . W. Archibalrl awarq, the Horatio G. Warner awal'd, the Eugene I. Yudis . award and second place in the Wil- -liam F .. Allen essay competition. First -place in the Allen essay contest _went to Robert W. Milder, and third .place to Mrs. Mary Jack Lloyd. By RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. United States Senator Hugh Scott, Repub'lican from Pennsylvania, will deliver the featured address at Union's 172nd annual commencement exer- cises to be held this year on June 11. Scott is now serving his second term in the Senate. He was first elect- ed in 1958 with an impressive upset 'ictory over then-Governor George Leader. Scott was re-elected in 1964, running against 1\Uss Genevieve Blatt who ran a tight race by attacking Scott for his endorsement, admittedly lukewarm, of his party's presidential candidate, Barry Goldwater. Incognito Seaman Before becoming a senator, Scott served as a Congressman from his Philadelphia district from 1940 to · 1956\. in 1944, while a House member, he enlisted incognito as a merchant seaman on a tanker carrying gasoline to Great Britain and was later able to interview Prime Minister Winston Churchill on a Normandy Beachhead. Scott won national attention as Re- publication National Chairman during the 1948 presidential campaign of Thomas E. Dewey. In 1952, Scott was a leader of the pre-convention cam- paign of General Dwight D. Eisen- hower. Civil RiQhts Supporter His Senate career is sprinkled with outstanding achievempnts. In 1S64, Scott played a prominent role in the Bobby Baker investigation. A long-time supporter of civil rights leg- islation, he has strongly backed the various civil rights bills coming be- fore the Senate since 1957. Scott also voted in favor of the 1963 Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. He is currently a member of four Senate committees: Commerce, Judiciary, Rules and Ad- ministration, and Small Business. Born in 1901, in Fredricksburg, Vir- ginia, Scott, an attorney, holds de- grees from the University of Virginia, Randolph-Macon College and Lasalle College. He served in the Army, Navy and Merchant Marine at different times during both World Wars. A Phi Beta Kappa, Senator Scott is married to the former Marion Huntington Chase. ,J I l encourage friends and acquaintances whom they ·believe. to be likely Unicn men to apply. Preliminary application caro~ •. are available in the AdJ;nissions Office in Old Gym and Pearson said he hopes t4at over the summer, Umon men will give them to those friends and .acquaint~n~es who CO'!J.ld _pl\ofit _from a ,Unicn education. Prospects who return the prelmunary application w1ll rece1ve an application the catalog, and an invitation for an interview in Schenectady over the summe~. Pearson feels that there.is a reservoir of student enthusiasm which the Admissions Department cim tap~:~ increase and diversify its applicant po.ol. The Carter Davidson Graduate Scholarship was awarded to Jay W. Sprong. Howard E. Jackson won the RCA schola~ship and John H. Hines received the Western Electric sti- pend. The ECAC Merit Medal was awarded to Gregory R. Olsen. Account t~rMost Striking'' l . Space Executive To Push The Fuller Medical Scholarships of $700 each were awarded to Dennis Gordan and James C. Leyhane. The 'Ralph W. Stearns awards went to .RQ.bert H. Douglas, Bruce M. Gans, and Frank W. Glenns. Robert Ben- jamin won the Joseph Daggert Award. Duane Awards And the James Goodrich-Alexander Duane Speaking awards were won by Michaf.'l A. Halperson and Michael R. Berlowitz. Donald L. De Michele won the William A. Pike Memorial award. Alfred Kazin, the author and critic, said here Tuesday that William Man- chester's minute account of the Ken- nedy assassination is the \most strik- ing\ example of the new literary form being produced by the \sense of simultaneous happening\ communi- ' cated through modern mass media. 1 , F.u.logies written on the deaths of leaders in the past, Kazin said, have ' conventionally been filled with a tr~­ . gic dignity. But the Manchester boo}{:, \The Death of a President,\ defies .Profits Of Air ITr Edward C. W e!sh, Executive Secr~tary of the National Aeronautics and' :S\_pace. Council, will deliver the aiiQji} Steinmetz Lecture on Wednes- di!Y\-May 17, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chane!. f!e will sneak on \Benefits of the Aerospace Revolution. Convo- cation credit will he given. The National Aeronautics and Soace Cm.tnc}l is the President's ad- \ visory group on aeronautic:s .and space activities. Reporting to 1t are s-qch agencies as the National Aerona'tltics and Space Admini13tration (NASA) and the Atomic Energy Commission. Dr. Welsh was appointed to his pres- ent position by the late Pres1dent Kennedy in 1961. '' · ..l -:~f.cono/T)ic Academician. . rn5rn m Long, Valley, N.J., 1n 1903, Welsh holds at!~J\;B. from Lafayette, an M.A. from '.i;t;ifts, and Ph.D. from 1 1.9 Ohio ~tate .. He.l\.~S ~pent twelye yea_rs on umvers1ty f:i:bultles, teachmg pric- ing policies and theory, money and banking, internation~l ~rade and finance and economic history. Dr. .,.. Welsh 'bas published studies an!i ar- ticles on tariffs, .pr~ce ~igidities, ant;!- trust and monopolies 111 Japan, pri- vate enterprise in Japan, .,government I) \«J aid to business expansmn m the United States, and the national space progranl. In. ·government service Welsh has 1 xt served on many agencies dealing with economic affairs and received a cita- tion from General Douglas Mac- Arthur for \major contributions to the development of private enter- ' <l prise in Japan.\ · Steinmetz Commemorated He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, a Fellow of the American Astronau- ,., tical Society, an Associate Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and ,Astronautics, au Honorary Mem· ber of the Aerospace Medical Asso- \) ciation and a corresponding member of the International Academy of Astronautics. The purpose of the annual Stein- metz Lecture is to commemorate the life and work of Charles P. Steinmetz, electrical genius and founder of Union's Electrical Engineering De- partment. It is presented by the Schenectady Section and the Union College Student Branch of the Insti- tute of Electrical and Electronics En- gineers ( l'.E.E.E.). Revolution tradition and conveys instead \a fan- ALFRED KAZIN, The IEEE will sponsor Dr. Edward C. Welsh at a Convocation next Wednesday. sj>eaking at Convocation last Tuesday. Rep. Reuss Seeks Ombudsman By BAJUtY NEWMAN stood\ in the Ho1,1se. The nonpolitical job, he told the Convocation audience, A Wisconsin congressman who is is \carefully tailored to a congress- .. making a career', of advocating a man's needs.\ national \ombudsman carried his The new \ombudsman Reuss plea for a \humanization of the bus- maintained, will not endanger the iness of government\ here Monday. contact between voter and repre· Republican Rep. Henry S. Reuss is sentative when he relieves the legis- sponsoring a House bill to create an lator of the tedious administrative appointed post for a \prestigeous•· task called «casework.\ figure who will answer citizens' com- Bureaucratic Bumbling plaints against the bureauc:cacy. In .the Over 50 per cent of the mail re- four years since he introduced the ceived .on Capitol Hill are complaints measure with Senator Claiborne Pell about bureaucratic bumbling, objeC· of Rhode Island, it has gotten \ap- tions to mismanag.ement of public proximately nowhere.\ services, or requests for favors of Opposition all sorts. 'l'he congressman and his Reuss' congressional colleagues are staff, Reuss said, are burdened with opposed to an \ombudsman a name the lengthy negotiations often at- derived from the Swedish prototype, tached to resolving these problems. because they fear losing the oppor- The primary concerns facing a con- tunity to perform various favors for gressman-questions of war, peace, constituents - a vital vote·getting de- and domestic well being-force him vice, accordin~ to Reuss. to share his valuable time with the still send angry letters to Washing- ton, but instead of handling the dif- ficulty himself, the representive will, at his. own discretion, refer the mat- ter to the office of the \ombudsman.\ \If the 'ombudsman's' investigation is a success,'' Reuss argued, \the Congressman can take all the credit he wishes, and if no~, he can blame it all on the 'ombudsman.\ The re- sult, in purely pragmatic terms, will be new freedom for the congress- man to give the \required thought and study\ to important issues, with- out, Reuss noted, the loss of con- tact with election-conscious voters. Staff of Experts Reuss contended also that the office of the \ombudsman with a staff of exuerts in special fields, could do a better job than the average con- gressman's aides in dealing with the .highly speci.alized bureaucracy. The \ombudsman w:ho would be But the Milwau.ltee representative p!;!tty peeves of individU;al citizens. insisted his bill is \widely misunder- Under tile Reuss bill, vo-ters Will Continued on Page 2 · T'Ms semi•symmetrioal tront page ts dectteatect to the steactjast 1Jr&pontmt and patrlaralu~t prog· e11itor of the symmetrica~ layout, Barry Joel Newman. tastic aura of excitement.\ Manchester is overcome by \the ex- citement of the journalist,\ Kazin as- serted, a11d the book retains an im- mediacy for the reader \as if he were still sitting at the television on the day Ruby shot Oswald.\ Intriguing Reality The book follows the lead of \In Cold Blood\ whose author, Truman Capote, found reality to be more in- triguing than the creations of his imagination. \Powe:r in literary terms,\ Kazan said, \is the expansion of the indi- vidual consciousness to feel emotions ordinary life can rarely or never pro- vide occasion for exciting.\ \But the modern world as reported Continued on Page 2 GNINEPPAH · Union men and their Spring week- en'd dates are welcome to express their feelings and vent their emotions this Saturday at a Be-In sponsored by the 1967 Garnet staff. The happen- ing is scheduled to begin around 1:00 P.M., and continue until the lacrosse game later in the afternoon . Highlights of the event will be a performance by the Wharf Rats, a lccal rock and roll group, and the op- portunity for everybody to paint wat- er color pictures. All types of cos- tumes are appropriate, and a prize will be awarded to the most original costume on a Union man and his date. .4lso, $25 will be dropped to spec- tators from the 'copter. Flying Photographers Aerial photographs of the event and other Spring Weekend activity will be taken by yearbook photographers, and will appear in the new yearbook. Hel- ium balloons will be provided for all those in attendance. So don't forget, this Saturday at the Nott Memorial, BE-IN!! Jim Rubenstein, Associate Editor of Garnet, stressed that this Be-in \was in no way planned and has nothing to do with peace, love or war.\ He said the yearbook merely wished to pro- vide an opportunity for people to get together and mingle on campus. \This campus heeds something where peo- ple can have a good time together doing things they're not used to do- ing on campus.\ Continued on Page 2

2 Rubenzahl Appoin~ed Concordy Pron1oter oioseph Mann, Jr., editor-in-chief of Concordiensis, has announced the appomtment of Joel Rubenzahl as Business Manager for the coming year Rubenzahl, a junior physics major, served as national advertising manager thi~ past year. As his first official act Rubenzahl appointed Peter Drotman a sophomore P~e-Med,. to fill th~ posi~ion of national advertising manager. p.;_ul Gerber '68 w~ll c!>ntmue as Cuculatw.n Manager and lVlike Ein '69 will take over as Dis- tr~bution !Ylanager Steve L1ttman :70 has been appointed Subscription Manager. R1ch Lew1s, :Mark Bauman and lVhke Swersky round out the new business staff. Londc>n Correspondent Cliff Safane '69, previously the Music Editor and Acting Features Editor h~s assume~ the ro~e of Feature Editor. Larry Spivack, formerly Feature Editor w1ll report mternational news from London. Alan Klein Associate News Editor will report from Israel next year. ' ' Freshmen staffers Rich Patterson and Neil Kramer have been promoted to Assistant News Editor and Assistant Managing Editor respectively. Dick Daniels (photography editor), Bill Breiman (news staff), and Steve Fox (features staff) will continue in their positions. · Prof. Styles to Study Parasites on Fellowship· By LEN KA.GAN Dr. Twitty J. Styles, Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences, has been awarded an Interamerican Fellowship in tropical medicine and parasitology by Louisiana State University. Dr. Styles was one of five chosen from among the many who applied for such grants, which are financed through the Public Health Service. The award provides for research this summer in Mexico and other parts of Central America. A specialist in research on parasi- tology, Prof. :Styles will study the ef- fects of various tropical parasites on man. Included in his field work will be the collection of disease vectors- the transmitters or carriers of tropi- cal disease, and observation of en· demic zones, the parasitologist's term used to identify the area in which the disease is present. Malaria Research Dr. Styles indicated that malaria is once again presenting a threat to the United States, due to infected GJ.'s returning from the jungles of Viet- nam. \Parasitologists and the Public Health Service are alarmed, because the number of reported cases of malaria in the U.S. has doubled over the last 10 years,\ Styles noted. He is presently conducting research at- tempting \to increase the host resist- ance of mice to the lethal effects of Plasmodhtnt burghel (a malaria or- ganism) with the use of bacteria endotoxin.\ In addition, Prof. Styles is conduct- ing .experiments dealing with the pres- ence of parasites in domestic animals. \A young child may ingest the worm-infested feces of a pet dog, and will become ill with a tropical disease unknown to local doctors,\ Styles remarked. Although this hasn't oeen known to' happen often in Schenec- tady, we have found parasites within the bodies of locll,l Aogs.\ Prof. Styles expects his eight weeks in Central America to prove most enlightening, due to the great similar- ities between the conditions he will be observing and his own research .PI'ojects. In addition, during the course of the summer, Dr. Styles will lecture at a number of Central Amer- ican universities on the nature of his current research. Be-In. • • Continued from Page 1 He stressed that the yearbook is try· ing \to picture the college as a chang- ing college with a breakdown in strat· ification.\ He sees the \Be-in\ as the symbol of .. a new breed of people who care aoout each other.\ \We hope this will be the first of a series of events which will draw the campus out to express itself \ Rubenstein added. • Council Seelfs Aid William Lasnik, a junior, recent ly was striclten with a cerebral hemorrhage and now is in critical condition at Ellis Hospital. His parents and doctors have · decided to operate. This will · necessitate a transfer to a New York hospital where special fa- cilities are available. Estimated costs of medical at- tention are expected to run very high and the Student Council has decided to take an active role to help meet the financial need. A motion was passed before the Council allowing the Tax Com- mittee to take one dollar per man out of the reserve fund. The fig- ure will approximate $1300. It is also hoped that voluntary con- tributions will be collected from the UIC and at the IFC dance . next Saturday. Bob Marshall, Secretary of the Student Council, is in charge of the problem. Anyone willing to help the committee handle Un- . · ion's gesture should contact him. Lollipop Donor Assaulted The Saturday festivities were marred by an incident of violence. A Union student was passing out lolli- pops to the crowd watching the ROTC parade. He offered one to a woman in the crowd, whereupon he was struck by her husband who didn't wish his wife to speak to that stu- dent's \kind.\ President Harold C. Martin interevned at the scene in an attempt to reconciie the two. The stu- dent apologized to the man for any interference with anyone's view of the parade. but the man would not return an apology. The incident end- ed there. President Martin declined comment on his role in the incident. Rep. Henry Reuss speaks at Convocation. Reuss • • • Continued from Page 1 appointed by the Speaker of the House and President Pro Tem of the Senate, will consequently be able to compel reforms in the administrative structure. He wou:d be empowered, according to the hill, to conduct investigations of complaints and make recommenda- tions for changes. Ninety per cent of the complaints in .sweden, however, are discovered to be unfounded, Reuss observed, providing a morale booster for bu- reaucrats. Even insupportable com- Dean Predicts Continuation of Geology Dept. The .fate of the geology department, which many have presumed to be sealed, seems to be improving, ac- cording to Dean Lockwood. He claim- ed that prospects for next year in- clude at least one resident geologist with courses .in Geology to be given at Umon eliminating the need for com- mutation to other schools in the Tri- cities area. The future of the Philoso- phy department is also quite prmnis- ing. With the departure of Professors Hewitt and Hall, the college is seek- ing to develop the geology department through a cooperative program with RPI. According to Dean Lockwood, a program in which professors from Union and RPI would teach at both schools would provide for a diversified professional staff, which would benefit the students through a broad range of courses and would benefit the pro- fessors themselves through the ad- nntages of a large department. Few Majors Dean Lockwood pointed out that the limited number of Geology ma- jors imposes a financial limit to the size of the department here at Union. The financial problem may be solved through cooperative program, though, in which the costs would he spread out between two schools. The facili- ties ·of the department will a:so be improved with the opening of the new Science complex. Ground breaking will occur this summer or early next fall The philosophy department wUl have a staff Qf two and one half next year, with Professor Sven Peter- son and someone yet to be appointed teaching full time, and Mr. Foster teaching half time. Dean Lockwood said that the col- lege recognizes the demand for an expanded and stronger Philosophy department as it has been expressed through increasing numbers of phil- osophy majors and the generally ex- panded enrollment in the department. plain~s receive answers in \plain Swedtsh,\ so that befuddled citizens win understand precisely why they are being ch<>rtchanged. In America, the \ombudsman\ conce1 t is creeping toward greater acceptance. Hawaii last week became the first state to adopt the idea and Nassau County in New York estab- lished the first local \ombudsman\ in the country July 1. _Reuss said hi_s Congressional bill will leave committee \as soon as the American people learn to pronounce \ombudsman.\' \I expect,\ he ·said, \that rr.ay ·iak~ several years.\ Kazin. • • Continued from Page 1 ~very day has become exciting enough m the eyes .of certain writers,\ Kazin contended, to serve as a substitute for the power .of imagination. The rush ()f events has made de- tached obser-vation increasingly dif- ficult for the author. Manchester \is overwhe:.med by the contents of his own study,\ according to the critic and finds h.imself inc~uded in the drama. Mis$ion of Detail The journalistic approach of men who write \non-fiction novels\ has engulfed the hooks in a flood of de- tai11 usually disgarded in older works whtch are ill()fe general and less im- mediate. . :)\'f~nchester-, Kazin maintained, is JOimng most modern journalists in th!J \fi?.iss.ion of d~tail\ finding a cer- tam s1gmficance m what was eaten for lunch on November 22 1963 or wh~t became of Mrs. Kennedy's b'bod- stamed dress. \The obsession with the facts of power,\ Kazin said \would have seemed ridiculous 15 'years ago.\ The l\'Ianchester book, he observed is \J;lYJJnotized\ hy power and its trap- pmgs. St1.1pefying Power Th:! cr:tic sa.d, however, that Man- ~hester's con ~ern with the powerful ~m?.act of a presidential assasination IS perfectly understandable\ in light of the stupefymg power of the tJ mted States.\ He said that the growth of national strength sil!ce 1945, coupled with the horrors of . human destruction in Worl~ War g is beyond the grasp of cr~atlve _ wnters who lived through th1s penod. We are a~,ked he said \to describe something beyond the comprehension of mankind.\ \~he sen.se of evil was made banal,\ Kazm noted, \by terro;r on an un- heard-of scale.\ The writer, as a re- sult, ,was. left \paralyzed with out- and could not find adequate Thursday, May 11 , 1967 A CC Delays) Encounter ·~. OnParietals;~~ I CJnsideration of the proposed liber- aLzattOn. of Social Rules was delayed\' aga .. n thJs w(lek when the ACC meet- HI!;{ schedttled for this Wednesday was postponed until ne:x;t Wednesday. The ._Cl! wtU be faced with three similar but not identical proposals presented\JI by the Student Council, UIC and the lFC. Dean Lockwood stated the adminis• tration's on:!y real concern is the as•·tj sumptions and the atmosphere that • g?es along with any new rules. \Spe- · cific hours are far less important than the ~t~osphere, the ~hinking and the, 8 conditions under which .the commun- ity operates. This is why it. it;; so im- portant that the ACC be involved as it reperesents all segments of 'the comrtmnity.\ :~.. ' Rationale of College . \We b.ave made no decision on spe- cific hotu:s but are looking for a clear' statement of the rationale of the col• lege.. We must remind ourselves of the assumption on which we operate.\ Lockwo()d refused to comment on any 1 · proposed hours and stated that he and I President . Martin had. only discussed general pllilosophical problems. Thli~day, 'Un(:l tbil ~t: ple acce.Pt ality in w: IU!d white Just the .s llell and: l. Too Bad I Anyway T They llli 1/ war, witho it, or why mood' is t~ accept we ~ ties are ne t Necessit' ists.\ Wh; anyone wh and that : any meaniJ ( The U •. ~ enormousJ sible to sac { in the narr life. When people are being heap ing for tw~ t asking too of moralit: rathc;Jr d11t He also expressed his concern over < the condition of the lounges after'.· ' weekends, The Concordiensis might, Ad..., he added, make a crusade, after it '' runs out ,of issues, for getting some Q trash cans on campus. 'l I ~ Foul language on campus, while not ~· ·u· fi!.lf:Ch of a problem, stiH is, as one · . . vlsitor termed it, \unimaginitive \ · · Lockwo.()d observed that the compll-,J ~1l.'<'*K~r~*~ ance w1th the closed container agree- I ' '\ It is expc ment has been good, and that he was pleased with students' behavior here. dents will i --------------------~-- Vietnam Debate ,, several yea < sions whicl fifteen year gradually • applied bo could note Prof. Malcolm Willison of Sociology•: · •tr t master in 1 debated Congressman Samuel Strat- · stamp the ton (D. -N.Y.) on the issue of the student is U.S. policy in Vietnam this past Sun- school, ·the day at Fulton-Montgomery Communi-· 1 · . 1 .~. J. the applica ty CQllege. Willison opposed the~ present a l prese{lt government policy and Strat- paratory sc ton d~fended it. sistently d« Stratton stated it was a clear case students ar of aggression from the North and''· ' school. Pre havin~ taught the Russians they ' school cate can't, get away with aggression we · percentags must tnow teaeh the Chinese the same lar and nnf lessoq. He further stressed that we,, < tween the need a military victory before we can quality of tl build up the economy of S. Vietnam. the closely Willison countered with a desire Amherst Vl for some solid facts about the admini- 48% and 1: stration's policy on Vietnam. He also' stated that our basic policy isn't in our best interests. He expressed a fear that the Johnson administration i has almost no support and wili be;, i forced to negotiate or escalate to gain ' political support. r outlet in the \th}'eadbare\ literary forms he had used before. Revel In Might The United States came to revel in the glory of its new might Kazin said, and the view of ourselve~ as· the I Another: frequently c ,. and the qu: marked tba average frE range to tb ampll!. Ho, \' will be \mt that his o: scores 1 but that smce 1 J tionaliy in \on 'y virtuous people became the 1 ; (I moral landscape of the times.\ Ex- ternal p()wer, the critic indicated has th~reby become the object of modern wnters who place the emphasis upon reality. · · · .,. ~ MONA~ and Kazin said the writer of today is challenged to \be out of it\ and re· turn to old fashioned techniques. use of older techniques by ·;;;:;,J..-;·~:v'l~ .l who. a~~ not_ \overimpressed by their med1a, Kazm asserted, \is the most perilous thing that anyone can do todav.\ 11 lb JOH 15 HELP WANTED L. G. BALFOUR CO. DIAMANTE'S 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Counselors for summer camp for children. Good sal· aries for qualified Group Counselors or Specialist. 9 Week , season,· camp located in Centr.al Massachusetts. Also some non-counseling jobs opened at legal rninimum wage hourly rates. Higher for especially qualified people. For Further informatiDn call Troy 272-6562 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine. Food and Legal B-everages 118 - 120 JAY STREET CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Wrile or Call haternify Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M .. to I A.M. Dambrose Cleaners FREE STORAGE ON ORDERS OF $100RMORE For more information phone FR 4·.5193 after 6 P.M. ·~ .......... A • ,4, 4 6 4 ... ,4 • ,A, •• + + • + t .A + • 4 t +. f 6 6 .... ,. ,i A t t • f t •• , , .• _______ ..,..,.. _______________ ..._. _____ .J Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES -· Open 24 H~urs Daily- SNACK BAR ON PREMISES let the lager f:reely flow. Dc,wn to Louis', let us go, A ;unique place to dine with did European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in This Area For reservations .phone FR 4-8917 E R \i;l Feat

l1, 1967 Thii~day, May 11, ~ 967 Stubborn U·S. Iinpedes Peace liber· delayedi- meet- was The similar presented 1 JI and the adminis• the as-tl that ' \Spe- · thim and the;D commun- is so im- as . s of the By ALAN ZIEGLER ·.On~ thing that distresses me is that most peo- •: ple accept the fact that there is little or no mor- ality in. war. ';l'hey, hea~ of people, yellow, bl~ck and whtte, dymg m Vretnam and remark w1th jqst the .sliglJ.test touch or sadism, that \War is ~ Jlell and 1-!obody Ever Said it Wasn't,\ or \It's · Too B!!d But That's the Way It's Got to Be and Anyway They Started It.\ They blindly accept the fact that we are in a f war, without questioning why or how we got into it, or why ·or how we could get out of it. The mood' is to accept. Accept we are in Vietnam, accept we can't get out, and accept that atroci- t; ties are necessary and civilians must be killed. Greatest Weapon t Necessity is the greatest weapon of the \real- ists.\ When they invoke the holy \necessity anyone who questions it is put down as idealistic, and that automatically renders him useless in Communist rule would be a drastic improvement over the destruction that is reigning today. :tor· Recently a survey was taken of Vietnamese· peasants to see what they want. Lest this seem like an extreme thing to do, let us remember that it is their country. The results showed the peasants to be remarkably apolitical. When an- swering questions concerning political .preference they constantly favored peace as their major ()b: jective and not capitaUsm, communism, or any other \ism.\ Dogma to them only means destruc- tion. Self-indulgence ..... ( any meaningful discussion. If the United States were to respect their wish- es and quit its heinous self-indulgence, we might sEt a precedent of morality that would long out- llve any symbolic stoppage we might make of C9mmunism. I am in no way saying that Ho Chi Minh is a great humanist and that the Viet Cong's atro~itie:> are justified. But it is one of the piti- ful 1romes of war that ali are reduced to the lmvest common denominator. The adage \to fight fire with fire'' is a rationalization for all to resmt to the lowness of the enemy in order to defeat the enemy. Thus the heroes and villians, tlle noble and ignoble all become hopelessly and un• recognizably entwined. The VietCong think they are the noble ones and we think we are, but nobility is a word that has no meaning to tile screaming, fleeing peasants of a burning vil1age. spe- a clearl f the col• of operate.\ on any• at he and discussed The U. S. with its plethora of prestige and its enormous resources and influence finds it impos- sible to sacrifice just a portion of this abundance in the name or morality and respect for human life. When so much is being destroyed, so many people are being killed, and so much suffering is being heaped ori a people who have been fight- ing for twenty years and only desire peace, is it '- asking too much to end the War in the name of morality, and perhaps sacrifice what is a rath~;Jr d11bious political gain? Certainly even :sun we demand that the other side fall on their hands and knees before ending the war even though this is a war that is mostly our creation. But when all is considered, why can't the U. S, take the big initiative and lead the world toward over- ·. t: after, Ad . . n 1 . might, ·miSStOnS r'O· 'lC\': i'%mV®i\¥if!MWM\m' after it J' · Quantity- Threat to Quality j .· t t&~f-~7~::::f.'::~~<;::·,::::::l::<:~·::::~:~Y::~~ ~::::;::~::::::::::ag:c:T: ::~~:; he was dents will be gradually increasing over the next is not worth the subsequent percenti!e rise. of here. several years due to the new ecumenical revi- approximately 1% to the 93% percentile natwn· sions which have been occurring. For the past ally. Pearson feels \that admissions committees rL fifteen years. the number of Catholic students has are tending now to negate the importance of ad- t Sociology'. · .·.{u Strat- e of the past Sun· 1 , 1 · .·~·;. J. the gradually declined, and often candidates who mlSsion scores\ in many schools, including Union. applied from parochial high schools in the ,past Asked of the primary problem concerning appli- could not even be considered because the head- cants, Pearson said \Union's main problem is master in their Catholic high school would not not enough applications,\ not CEEB scores. stamp the application \recommended.\ If a Largest Class student is not· recommended by his secondary As Union continues to slowly expand _ the school, the admissions office will not consider freshman class o:f l!:Jrll will be 'J:::l 4 , the largest J.n the application. Catholic high school students Union history, and the projected ideal class will present a problematic aspect to the public pre- contain 450 students, making a total enrollment paratory school figures. It has never been con- Strat- case and' 1 , they ssion we the same that we.J can Vietnam. a desire e admini- sistently decided whether Catholic high school of l,BOO students~the problem will become more t d t t b bli h 1 t acute. Of the 1,522 applicants for next yeaJ:, s u en s are 0 e pu c sc 00 or prepara ory more than half were accepted. However, expel'· .; school. Presently they are included in the prep ience has taught the admissions office that jt school category, helping the preparatory school must accept twice the number of applicants it percentags waver near 25%. However it is popu- wishes to enroll. The problem is that Union has Iar and nnfair to draw a positive correlation be- difiicuity maintaining its high academic stand· < tween the private school percentage and the quality of the institution. Within the Little Tbree, ards when it must accept 850 students from only h 1 I bl h I f W \ll' d 1,500 applicants. The problem is by no means t e c ose Y compara e sc 00 8 0 · 1 tams an limited only to Union, since our percentage of Amherst vary by the respective percentages of applications to acceptances is the same as many 48% and '18% preparatory school students. other fine schools; including Tufts and Wesleyan, Correlation Similady our acceptance-enrollment percentage Another similar erroneaus correlation which is of 50% is not disgraceful in comparison to other frequently drawn is the one between CEEB scores schools, such as R.P.I. with 38%. . He also' isn't in a i will be~ ~ to gain and the quality of the school. Dean Pearson re- It has been the purpose of this three-part series marked tbat it would be no problem to raise the to briefly expose to the student several aspects average freshman scores from the present 625 of the Union College admissions department. AI· literary f revel in Kazin as· the range to th.e 675 range of Wesleyan, for an ex- th<>ugh the articles were written with a certain ample. However, he felt that the class of 1971 amount of personal bias, they have attempted to '~' will be \much more interesting\ due to the fact briefly make public the inner workings of the that his office did not concentrate on board admissions department; they have also tried to scores, but rather on individual talents. It is felt re}Judiate Lord Mansfield's statement, \Give your that since Union ranks in the 92 percentile na- decision, never your reasons; your decisions may J tionaliy in CE:'l!!B averages, the eff'ort needed to be right, your reasons are sure to be wrong.\ the 1 ; ~ MONAilCH CLASS NOTES a more decent way of living? We consider our- selves a leader, yet look what we lead in: arms supply and destructive prowess. Let us lead in S{)mething meaningful for a change. Pacifists have been told time and time again L.hat there will always be war because there has always been war. People point to the thousands .~f years of war and say \Why should it be any d.ilferent today?\ Overt Militarism Jlowever there is one difference. We have pro- g:tessed to a certain degree in that leaders all ·over the world agree about the horrors of war and always claim it is the other guy who started it, md that they are fighting, not because they want •to, but because they have to. Overt militarism went out with Hitler. Now countries have become covert about their Inilitarism. They have f0und higher purposes for war, above the crass desires to improve the na- H<>n.'s economy, Of c<>urse, \crass\ questions of ... ctnd the Wor goes on .•. national power are still a major factor behind ·war; but at least it is recognized that war, for Vlar's sake, is an ignoble thing and that its true 11aiure must be hidden behind a facade of dogma. W.hat we are left with is, in many cases, dis- gusting hypocrtsy. But pernaps th1s is a transi· thn period in the evolution of man. Consider- ing that man has been on this earth for a sur- vruingty short period of time (approximately onE!l:GOO of the eaMh's history), it seems con- ceivable that in the future man will achieve a lligher e;Kistence than he has now. It is also con- .ceJ.Vable that one of the advances he will make '\Vill be in the area of settling his disputes and IJersuading people concerning idealogy. He will !earn that physical force is an extremely illogi- ~al, ineffective, as well as immoral way of debat- ing an intellectual point. Transition Consequently, there has to be a transition pe- ric>d when man wm gradually rule out war as a IJO.Ssible alternative. 'fl!is will not happen magic- ails or suddenly, W()uld it be too conceited for llS to say that destiny is placing a minute portion d its mammoth historical burden on our should- Ers and it is our joll to devote . our energies to e~iding this transition? . Or shall we continue to im_pose on ourselves the idiocy and cruelty of the past and render ourselves inadequate for this ~h.allenge? It is the challenge. of a future when it -will not be ludicrous to say that man has found a n '0' ...... Ex- has modern upon\} \' today is and re· and STUDY GUIDES at JOHN'S NEWS EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern A.ve. WE DELIVER PIZZA Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing by their the most can do !I lb ~· 'l.q ~ 155 ·Clinton St. PHONE 393-0170 UNION BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET Books ••• Paperback Classics ---.:-.--- Party Favors • • • Art Supplies Office Supplies: .. · RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue FeatlJring -HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Jos., Nusbaum, Inc. Coltrane Alive, Godz is Dead By CLIFFORD SAFANE John Coltrane, Kulu Se Mama, (lmpulse)-Col- trane has done it again. Another magnificant al- bum by one of jazz's greatest musicians. Thls album IS infused with life. It is alive. It breathes. It feels. It makes you want to cry, laugh, shout, and think. The title tune features the vocals of Juno Lewis, plus the. band as a whole; \Virgil\ ex- presses Coltrane's inner depths; and \Welcome\ is a beautiful statement of love. But what makes thE)se tunes so superior is that Coltrane holds nothing back. He Isn't afraid to express himself. This is music .of the gh~tto, and the suffering, anguish, and love that is there. For most of us, it IS a difficult music to listen to and comprehend, because we don't want to hear someone tell us how he really feels. All we are interested in is our bland little world of getting ahead. But if you are tired of such an existence, then here is an excellent album for you. The music played is life. l am certain that you won't be disappointed. S11n :na, The Heliocentric Worlds of Sun Ra, Vol- ume 2, (ESP !JISR)-W hat a beautiful record. Sun Ra's music is so changeable. For one instant it is quiet and retiectlVe, a1most to the point of be- ing cocktauish. The next moment 1t is avant garde, w1th screeches, groans, and moans coin- mg from the band. What Sun Ra does is to create textures. Rough. Jagged • .Smooth. Textures of all sorts. One sees cowrs when llstemng to ~::~un .tta. An extremely enlivening experience. The Godz, 2, (ESP Disk)-Psychedelic music, baby. So 1 hope you come prepared. The quality of tile music varies considerably, Some of it is good, but most of it isn't. Maybe I'm old fash- l(>ned. and should stick to John Coltrane, the Beat- les, and Ornette Coleman. I don't know. But the music just d9esn't make it. However, if you know anyone who has the al- bum, ask him to play the oft key r.endition of tbe beatJes' tune \You Won't See lYle.\ It's hilarious. But r wonder, was it meant that way? Sonny .Rollins, East Briladway Run Down, <Im~ pulse)-This Isn't a bad album, but I've heard Rollins and company play better. They simply lack envolvement. And smce Rollins is a major artist, I can only suppose that he was recorded on an off day. l:io let tJ;us one go by. Burt1m Greene, Quartet, (ESP Disk)-Greene's is a very busy and intense music. So intense that the llstener will pro'bably be reprelled by it. But if one is really willing to make an effort to listen, th,e music has much to offer. It seems to try to express everything at once. Joy. Sadness. Anger. But tbere is always energy present. Always the ieeling of being auve ana bemg able to feel and express oneself. A very good album, a better way to conduct himself than to kill him- self. The Great Man theory dictates that certain gifted and foresighted men can significantly affect history. What I am suggesting is that a Great Man now, by a shrewd plan, could effectively move us out of Vietnam, admit to our mistakes, and strilce an historic note for peace that will resound for years. Certainly, this man is not Lyndon . Johnson, since there is presently no \consensus\ for moral\ ity. And it does not seem that Mr. Johnson will be u11seated in 1968 for \Dont change horses in midstream\ is the maxim that prevalls. It would be far better for the country if people decided to not to \Go down with the ship.\ PAFUSIENNE • • FROM $100 ons · ·Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Dally except Mondays 447-451 State Street Down Town .Schenectddy 166 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. 12305 Registered Jewelers - American Gem Society

. Letters To Pui.Jh~hed Thursduys durm:; the scnuot ;year l>Y the Student Body. of<'unlon · Collc!l'e, Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Representative: ~ational ;\d\~rtislng Service, Inc.. College Publishers Representatll't>, 4~0 ~lad!· son Ave •• .N. Y. C. Editorial Offlc~. Olt.l U)'lll, L:-ruuu Col~ lege. Pul>llcatioll Ofrtce, ::lcheneetauy Pl'lnting Company. ii02 Broauwuy. Entered· in the SdlenectaUy Pnsl Of~ flee as ::lecond <.:luss ~lail ~luller. ~uhsl·ril>tiun 1 ~,e a <·u11Y; $:1 a j.•eur delivered anywben~ in lh~ l'nil~;>\..l States. ~.KIS·IOR. 80.\.RH Jt)St,;!'H A. ~!.\:-::-;, J·lt. '68.. . 37~-41:>~ ... JOEL Hl'llE:-;ZABL. 'ti~......... .. ... 37~·Ul30 .. Edlloz-HH . .!hlur .... Busiiit>SI:-l ~tanager \'Philanthropists\ To the Editor: The editorial which appeared in Concordy last week regarding · 'l~he Interfraternity Council ex· emplifies the slander that has · been thrown at the fraternity system. on the few occasions when the paper has bothered to ·print anything pertaining to fratexnity activities. This at- tacit ·is unjustified. The second sentence of this · piece of literary rubbish is not only unsubstantiated but also demonstrates how irresponsible Socl ·a l 7\. r. 0 . n St·n tus some members of this paper are. · · · 1 ,.- ~ . . • . ..., This hegins with the following: \It is beyond our comprehen- The goal of any proposal pertaining; to student life sion ·how this could be written should be· identical for both administration and students: · .n lieu of the fact that Concordy freedom for students to live as human beings and to de- has failed to send .a reporter to velop in a healthy fashion under conditions which provide the majority of the semi-month· ly I.F.C. meetings. Apparently for individual rights. the editor and we have different With such a singleness of purpose lln·iting them, why conceptions of what constitutes do these two bodies find difficulty in concurring? The stu- worthwhile activiti('s and since dents have perhaps seemed too eager to gain more time he has not chosen to point out during which they can entertain female guests in the pri- d~~!. we think the I.F.C. has vacy of their rooms. Their inability to su.pport a common proposal several weeks ago showed a lack of solidarity. Tv.>o weeks ago the l.F.C. However, it would be unreasonable to expect that students sponsored its annual \Help Day\ should accept anything. less. than absolut.e. freedom in this in which the pledges of each · l10use on campus went to Cen- area, providing, of course, that they exhibit the matunty tral Park and the Y.W.C.A. for and respect for others which would warra.nt such freedom. spring cleaning. Through the Behavior under the rules during the last year has, in our LF;C. various individual fratern- opinion, shown that students can respect individual rights ities have sponsored work proj- while engaging in social activities. We_ feel that they de- ects around the campus as well as in the community of Sche- serve another liberalization in policy, a liberalization which nectady. will eveHtually be expanded until social regulations, as they exist now, are abolished. 'The Brothers of Delta Chi The administration, on the other side of the coin. , has ·have cleaned out th\' \brook · d that bounds,\ have painted the been reluctant to allow any chance that nught en· anger Schenectady Family and. Child individual privileges. We fervently hope that this is their Service Center, and serve as most serious consideration. If it is nttt, than we must ,tutors at The Schenectady Boys gravely question any others which they advance. We agree· Club. Phi Sigma Delta is plan- . h t.J 'd M t' ' t t t f 11 1' · ning to clean out the upper Wit rres1 ent · ar m s s a emen ° c~ ege P 0 ley, glven floors of Nott .Memorial and Phi last spring upon the inauguration of the present rules, Delta Theta recently aided The which made it clear that the college would not condone Northeastern New York Associ- fornication. But we agree on a pragmatic basis: because ation for Retarded Children by of the college's traditional and coHservative orientation at· revarnishing their desks, repair- t.bis time, to say otherwise would be \dangerous.\ We feel.· ing picnic tables and installing • playground equipment. Many of however, that it is more dangerous for the college to tam-· the fraternities also sponsor per in the area of personal morality. Obvi()usly, it is neces- · Christmas parties for needy sary for an instiution to protect some of its members from · children and the I.F.C. is pres- tl::\e. thoughtless activities. of others. In the. are~ of drink- O~~han. supporting a Greek ing, for example, we should have rules wh1ch msure that boisterous activities and actions which may lead to damag- • Through the Interfraternity ing private property do not take place. Eut when the col-· Council Purchasing Agency lege attempts to set forth even a vague rule on fornica- ll.F.C.P.A.) the fraternities · Th 11 h · ht t have been able to make sub- tion, it is clearly trespassmg. e co eg-e as no ng 0 stantial savings in their food tell an individual what courses to avoid in this area; it purchases. In November the may point out dangerous and \undesirable\ practices, but LF.C. sponsol'ed the Miriam ~t cannot order him to avoid them. Not only is this type of Makeba Concert for the benefit attitude an infringement on the individual's rights, but it ~on~~ethee~\rc. h!wpau~an~~~i is also a preposterous attempt to protect a person \from and workshop in which approxi· himself.\ mate 'y 150 fraternity rp.en rep- One major implication of the President's statement is resenting every houst> on cam- the idea that curfews of any sort will curtail the \occa- · rus participated. Discussion sions of sin.\ This idea reflects the attitude of Dean PoT- groups were led by various fac- u:ty members and prominent lock, in part. The Dean of Students was fearful that ex- pe<lple outside the campus in cessively liberalized curfews would lead to a perpetual which common problems were \party atmosphere'' within this institution. There are at considpred. least three things wrung here which have been mentioned We feel that an organization before but which bear repetition. Fir-st, early curfews like The Concordy shou~d give more than anything else serve to limit occasions for social adequate coverage of fraternity contact in a normal, healthy atmosphere. Second, the idea activities and also hope that in of a \party atmosphere\ precludes any male-female soci~ the future it would do some in- contacts outside of strict dating situations; this is an ab~ sm·d generalization. Third, the opport11njty to engage in work and recreation with women at an all-men's college is something which cannot be stressed enough. Union College will not become Jess of a fine educational institution if wo- men are allowed in dormitories. and thus on our campus, more often. The college may, however, take on less of a male-dominated, limited point of view if normal human intt'ractions <UP more available. Afl(ltlkr point must be examined wl1en we are propos- ing rules which limit social hours for students. The entire c:oncept of au~horitarian limits on personal behavior (not violating the rights of others) is a pathological approach to stimulating responsible, mature behavior. Such limits are nothing more than methods of frightening or coercing an individual into certain patterns of action. These limits imply a measure of distrust in the individual's ability to guide his own activities. On.e does not instill true feelings of responsibility by coercion. . Hopefully, students at Union will soon have no rules pertaining to their personal social act-vities. Under these conditions, even the youngest freshmen would be able t() develop socially and intellectually in a trusting atmosphere. Here, they would understand and that certain types of be- havior would allow them to live like adult human beings. (Or does one truly become an adult only after the twenty- first year, or after leaving the \protective\ restraints of • college rules?) · In general, then, let us not forget that the \transient'~ undergraduate students do indeed have human rights. Un- ion Colfege does not exist to maintain a staff of adminstra- · · tors; it exists to educate the \transients\. The institution is fulfilling only a part of its duty to education if it en- courages academic growth alone. The college society can· exist and thrive with a student body which enjoys the li- berties of adults in the real society. Tlle existence of such student freedom does not endanger the college's existence. · At the present time, however, th€ college is existill,g at the expense of student freedom. Indeed, \Fair is foal · and foul is fair.\ vestigation before Its articles are printed. We appreciate that putting out a weekly paper is a burdensome job but we are sure the Secretary of the I.F.C. would be glad to submit a copy of the minutes of those meetings which Concordy could not cover. It also baffles. us that a person who refers. to fraternities as \.an overemphasized, unfair, divisive, ,):Jurdensome, superannuated, bigc oted, and diseased system of so- cial societies\ is still a member of one of these terrible places himse:f. Alan J·. Axelrod, President-Phi · Sigma Delta (}len M. Rapoport, Vice-Presi- dent Suggestions .. • • To the Eitor: In a desperate attempt to save Union from once again ap- pearing a hotbed of mediocrity, l)ome students gathered to dem- c nstrate against the ROTC par- ade. Their signs were poorly let- ~ered and abstruse. One student was hit by a pare.nt while at- tempting to distribute candy (the choice of candy-lollipops- was only because they are cheap, not for derogatory rea- sons). While not denying their right to demonstrate. President lVIattin found their methods im- polite and their signs incempre- hensible. But how <does one communicate ideas, reactions, information, or proposa1s to this student body? It's a whale of a problem. Advertising for activities and meetings is poorly and insuffici- ently done. Speakers are not. ex- posed to the students enough; and the acoustics in Memorial Chapel quickly erase any initia, tive to meet visitors. Individual students cannot easily express their opinions. Those who jeer from the sidelines about apathe- tic students do nvt help. The apathy on this ca1npus is defined two ways: lack of interest, or lack of knowled:ge. There is lit- tle benefit in trying to reach those who ar.e sincerely not in- terested; but many more stu- dents are uninterested because they do not kno:w, or make false assumptions based on rumors. Specific problems arise throughout the school· year. Elections are alternately hu- morous or pathetic. Few stu- dents know all the peuple they vote for; more do not care to make the effort. Furthermore, there is no vehicle, except par- ticipation, for telling students what happens at Student Coun- cil meetings. Small activities re- main small because of poorly advertised meetings. The Idol cannot get together enough ma- terial for a good Issue, and th ... y are underst:tffed. C.on cord1cns.s is also understaffed.; they have no professor of Journalism to teach them how to put out a newspaper. The Film Seril'S. does not pay-so few students' watch these historicaly and •· SAVEM£1 SAVEM~! The Editor aestheticaly important films. Their advertising is quite ade- ql.\ate but students do net 1 e- ceive a bacl,ground in G_m:ma. The problem of communica- tion is traceable to the ptesen-c methods we ha:ve; they are m- adequate. Bulletin boards, th..! major medium, are too few, ani in the new buildings are poo~ y lighted. Individual students can- not easily reach the whole stu- dent body w1th their opin1on.:>. Concotdiens,s prints letters, b«·;, their circuiation on ca1n1 us 1s poor; rarely can one find a copy. How many vead this far mto a boring letter anyway? '1 1 h.e radio station, whose business is com- munication and not sup:tising~y therefore is the largest actiV1ty, will run advertisements but does not read long stateml\nts ovet the air for anyone. Whenever anyone at Benning- torr College wishes t<> appreci- ate,. deprecate, or activate, the college provides free mimeo- graph materials. The Galleys, as they are called, are distrlb· uted to all students. Union Col- lege should make this availab_e to any student sufHcient~y mter- ested to type out h1s .thou5h.s, or infol'mation, and dtstrrbme them: The prob:em of Student Ac- tivities IS more con,ptex bec<cu;e ci.r.cumstances vary w .. de!Y w.th the activity. In order to dea1 with individual and corporat: problems of activities, as:vn.- posium, sponsored by the deans and the Student Council, should be held in the early fall. Rep- resentation from all acti'lities should include every officer. This group should discuss adver- tising problems of each activity, submit a report, and make rec- ommendations to the ·colleg(l, This group should originate in a con.m,ttee of the Student Council. The prob:em of bulletin boards is complicated by those who sceal attractive notices be- tore eH:nts .take p.ace. 1here ~hou. ld ,u,n.ed1ate1y be more poards, but the~e should be glass-c9vered. Wh¥ not put four bulletJn boards in the circle in front of the library-it is a very good location? At least one more calendar bulletin board shoul~ be put up pO that events are better publicized; and the bimo11thly camp'us calendar, whicl\. recently expanded its circulation shou:d be distributed to every student. Speakers who come to this college should have their itiner· arys p\lblished in advance. Stu- dents should know v. hich classes a speaker will attend. Professor Martin of Chemistry agrees with this and suggested a prant-in-aid be appointed to handle this as- l- eet. Professor l\laz t~n pres~·ntiy p arts a speaker's campus itiner- ary. The acoustic$ i11 Memorial Chapel may never be completely 11xed. However, on:• real advant- age can be given a speaker by us.ng chest microphones. As was seen last Tuesday, a speak- er whe moves away from and towards a fixed mike changes his transmission radical>ly. These are some of the w~ys and n eans Union can dea~ witl;l t apathy among students. I wel- wn:e any reactions or furth~r proposals. This letter was WJ.'it- ten to seriously propose sonl.e solutions to the problem ()f ·'/1 communication among students, on this campus; if action is taken, a large part of this prob- lem may be removed. ~ Steven Dra:per U.Ca on Tap p •ro the Editor: The recent announcement of the Administration's intentil)n •• , .to release student grades to :Jo- cal draft boards, unless such action is opposed by the indivdc ual student, is an unwarranted Imposition and a blatant indig. nation slapped upon the Union student. Undergraduate reaction to ,~ this matter should be nothing short of an emphatic \NOM to the Administration's stand Dn this issue. Furthermore, a corn· ••. mitment shou!d be forthcoming from the Administration not to release any grades whatsoever unless directed to do so by a student. It may be argued that '\ th1s is essentially what the col- lege is doing, but the truth is that the present policy produces a very serious side-effect. It forces the student to react to a situation that the college has no right to bring about in the first place. The student must never U: be put on the defensive by forc- ing him to request the college to keep his academic record ·con- fidential. As easy as this )liay seem, it is a matter of principle in which it is the responsibility of the college to keep such mat- ters private. It is the studeaVs obligation, not the college's to ,~ release this kind of information if the student so desires. As. the situation now exists, it places the non-assenting student at a disadvantage because his case ,.,_, may be regarded as \suspicious\· if hls local board does· not re- ceive his grades while the co!. lege remains ready to provide ;;p them. His desire to withhold his grades wou!d not necessarily be viewed favorably by the board. On the other hand, if it is col- e, lege policy not to provide such inJormatlon for any board, then all studc;mts may still take this in~tiative on their own, and the d€cision by a student to with- hold this information will not be looked upon as an aberration from college policy. The point be:ng that college policy -must ~ piace the initiative in the hands of th~ student and not take it upon itself. Facu'ty opinion on this mat- ' ter shculd a'so be aired. 'The Con•.-:ordy rr.ieht take it upon it· se 1f to see that their views be open:y expressed, but notwith- 1 standing, an immediate .reply from the Administration is in order. Stephen Glanzrock. '70 --------~----------~----1 LET ME SAVE .THE GENESEE FIRST. f • (< ' \' t tJ the Genesee Moment! T!4t GENESE( BRtWING Co, IN~ •• AOCHBT£R, N Y thursday, Cu The sc floating i ten,\ the Laid out River, ov taurants, world of The d long kno continent utterly f scribe tb the great ture of Ii A quic Helene's miniaturE allowing site. One feel the cubic str of West • Nearby f painted 1 imaginati Spor The U1 operating ers, beg: last weel the Capi1 Saratoga Hamilton ton. Rick one play, McGrego while He and Jen play vic against tl travels t< week p~a; Thursda~ nament The Gan • ond in tb The i meet wi nesday : and 18 ander Fi 440 yu .• jut@ wi dro't and yard das and 880 There 1 archery month. Union record t· 8-1 win an 8-1 1 three rr netmen: for a .5C Again: found tl classed tinental effort, l salvage singles worth. Despi1 er, the themsel' pummel had w< Union v includin singles, and Chr Levine: fourth,! spective doubles withKu Karp, v jevsky, George

',' w~ys with t I wel- s writ- sollie of 'Y' is s prob- Dr a :per of to lo· such indivd, in dig. Unt()n to nothing N@Mto on ,, .. \'~ ,. a com- ,. not to by a that '' the col- is It act to a has no first never u. by fore- college ntay nrat- to '\ Asthe places at a\ case ~' ·not re- the co!- provide /1 his sarily be board. it is col- e. such then this and the to with· will not berration point icy must ~ hands take it this mat- _, 'The upon it- views be notwith- , .reply is in '70 f • ,, thursday, May 11, 1967 Cultures Cong regateat Expo By THEODORE KREINIK The sound of African drums, the feeling of floating in space, the laughter from a \biergar- ten,\ these are but pal't of Expo '67 in Montreal. Laid out on two islands in the St. Lawrence River, over 1000 acres of pavilHons, exhibits, res- taurants, and rides from 62 nations bring a world of excitement to all visitors. The city of Montreal, SY2 hours from Union, long known for its cosmospolitan outlook and continental atmosphere, . is the setting for this utterly fantastic fair. No other words can de· scribe the vast_ variety of sights ranging from the great Amencan bubble to the winglike struc- ture of Russia .. A quick ride on \Le Metro\ brings you to Ste. Helene's Island where your adventure begins. A miniature monorail traverses the length and breadth of the fair while large cruisers and gon- dolas float effortlessly on a canal system, both If you get hungry, then you have a choice of food ranging from delicious Polynesian spiced meat ba:Hs at \The Bobo Hut,\ to sauerkraut and frankfurts at the Biergarten, and Breton crepes at the \Creperie When you've finished eating, enjoy shopping at a myriad of boutiques throughout the grounds, Fine silverwork is sold by Tunisia, caviar by Russia, silk by Thailand, and wood figurines by Gabon. Later on in the evening, you can go to \La Ronde,\ a mixture of Di!)neyland and Tivoli, complete with every imaginable ride and then some. Have the thrill of your life on the excit- ing Gyrotron, a nine-minute ride through vol- canoes and space. 'fhe theme of Expo '67, \Man and His Worlcl\ Pari of Expo '67's grounds are visible here, along with Montreal's skyline in the background across the St. Lawrence. allowing you a leisurely view of the entire Expo needs no explanation as the whole world is rep- site Once on the grounds, though, you can really resented here. The diversity of cultures through feei the spirit of Exvo and enjoy the colorful the national exhibits on one hand, and the blend- cubic structures of Venezuela, the massive tent ing of cultures through the theme pavillions .of West Germany, and the soaring arch of Italy. and the city of Montreal, on the other, result Nearby are temples from Thailand and Burma,_ in a feeling of excitement and wonder, which painted bright red and gold and the extremely this reporter, here at the opening-day ceremonies, imaginative all-aluminum French pavillion. urges you to experience. Sport ~ol~ts (jp{t The Urrion 1 <Cpllege golf team, operating with: only four play- ers, began If· curtailed season last week by finishing sixth in the Capital City Tournament at Saratoga and by defeating the Hamilton jayvees, 3-1, at Clin- ton. Rick Horsman, the number one player, led the team at the McGregor c'ub shooting an 86 while Horsman, Rich Critchlow and Jeff Smith scored match play victories for the Garnet against the Statesmen. Tpe team travels to the north country this week p;aying at St. Lawrence on Thursday and in the ICAC tour- nament at Potsdam on Friday. The Garnet golfers finished sec- • ond in the ICAC last year. Intra murals The inter-fraternity t r a c k meet will take place on Wed- nesday and Thursday, May 17 and 18 at 4:3() p.m. on Alex- ander Field. The 100 yd. dash, 440 y-d. run, shot put, and high jAAID will be run o~ Wedncs- djl.j;: and the broad JUmp, 220 ya'id dash, 120 yard low hurdles, and 880 yard relay on Thursday. \c There will be an all-college archery tournament later this month. Deans gate® ' ... Tennis N 'i Union's tennis team upped its record to 3-4 thi_ s week with an 8-1 win over !)tevens Tech and an 8-1 loss to Hamilton. With three matches remaining, the netmen have an excellent chance for a .500 season. . Against Hamilton, the Garnet found themselves hopelessly out- classed by an undefeated Con- tinental team. Despite a strong effort, Union was only able to salvage one victory, a sixth singles win by Lenny Duck• worth. Despite cold and windy weath- er, the Garnet netmen found themselves 011 Tue~day, ~nd pummeled a Stevens ~earn whiCh had won five o£ six matches. Union won five singles matches. including Jeff Kurzius at first singles, Brad Wheatley at third, and Chris Komisarjevsky, Sandy Levine and Lenny Duckworth at fourth, fifth and sixth singles re· spectively. All three Garnet doubles teams were victorious with Kurzius teaming witn Steve Karp Wheatley with Komisar- jevsky, and Marty Berry with George Miller. Check this Minimal Check Sport Jacket Here's a ha1;1dsome new expression in zephyr-weight sport jackets. Small-bold two-color checks on light grounds. Made by Deansgate which means the styling is authendcally traditional. In wrinkle-resistant For- trel® polyester and cottQn. Very soft hand. Just $37.50 THURSDAY & FRIDAY TILL NINE . c·.C'A'MPU.S CALENDAR\ .. Thursday, l\lay ll: Freshman Ten· nis; Union vs. Northwood, 2 :30 Friday, !\lay 12: Freshman La· c:·osse; Union vs. Siena, 3 :00 p.m., Courts. Baseball: Union vs. Middlebu: y, p.m., Garis Field. a :00 p.m., Alexander Field. Film Series: \My Little Chick- adee,\ with w. C. Fields, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m .. S.S, 16. Mountebanks Production, 8 :30 p.m .. Memorial Chapel. Play Review: Brecht's Object- Plea For Peace In '~pic Fornt '' 5 Concert: \The Blu~s Project,' ll :00 p,m, Memor.al Chapel. satur!lay, !\lay 13: Lacrosse; Union vs. St.. Lawrence, 2 :00 p.m .. Daley Field. Conc:r,: \Otis Redding,\ 8:00 p.m., Memorial ChapeL Mountebanks Production, B:3J p.m .. Nott Memm!a! Thea:re. Sunuay, :\lay 1-l: Lecture for the benEfit of Schenectady Mu- seum. \The Attistlc DilEmma at Mid- Century,\ Prof. W. Dean Eckert, 8:00 p.m., .S.S. 16. The production of Bertold Brecht's Mother Courage and Her Children by the Mountebanks at Nott Memorial Theater is both energetic and successful. Brecht poses some rather unique problems in product1on for the director, actors, techmcal workers, and the audience. 'l'he suc- cess of the present show is an excellent example of the excitement and energy which Professor Meriwether has been able to create in Union's Drama department. Contrary to the well known \slice of life\ cre- ated by such writers as Zola, one of Brecht's major concerns in his works is to keep a dis· tance between the audience and the actors, to keep the audience from feeling great empathy with the characters on the stage. This reduction of emotional involvement is mtended to result in an intellectual approach by the audience, thus combining instructwn with entertainment. Brecht makes use of such elements as songs and the \epic form\ to help him gain this end. Tll{>s!lay, '!\la~· IIi: I.FC. Meeting. 7:00 p.m., H.H.S.L. \\\t>tlues!lay :\laj· 1 i: Freshman La- CiO,se; Umon vs. R.P.I., 2:30 p.m., Courts. Freshman Lacrofse: Union vs. R.P.L. 3:00 p.m .. Garis Field. Scitnce Seminar: Alan B. Bolten. '67 speaker, 7:15 p.m., Hale Bouse, Dining Room. Convocation: Steinmetz Lecture. Dr. Edward c. Welsh, Ex:ecu- tive Se!!retary of the National Administration and Space CounciL 8:30 p.m., Memorial ChapeL Friday, .\lay 19: Convocation: Glee <.;Jub Gala, with Guest Artist Theo.:lor Uppman, Metropoli- tan Opera, 8:30 p.m .. Memorial Chapel. ~atur!lay, :VIay 20: Tennis; Union vs. Middlebury, 2:00 p.m .. Courts. · ··silent Night,\ Classic MoviEs of the '20's, and documentary, \Florence Days of Destruc- tion,\ benefit of C.R.I.A .. 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. sunday, :\lay 14: Religious Discus- sion Group led by Dr. Thomas D. Davis, Chaplain, Sltidmore. rEading from the \Screwtape Letters,\ by C. S. Lewis, Rec- reation Center 7:00 p.m. Chinese Wall: Senior Seminar Production, Little Theatre, 8:30 p.m. ~londay, :VIay 15: \Nobody Waved Good-bye\ movie sponsored JJy Class of 1968, College Hall 7:15 p.m. Slight admission charge . \\Widening Gap of Income, Among Nations and Its Impli- cations,\ by Mr. Kie Bok Lee, Rec. Center, 7:15 p.m. Tuesday, May 16: Opening of art exhibition, senior art students' work displayed, Hathorn Gal- leries, 7 :30 p.m. Purpose Mother Courage is the story of Anna Fierling as she travels across the countryside with her canteen wagon attempting to make money from the thirty years' war, Brecht's object in writing the .play \was to make the spectator see the blindness and stupidity of Mother Courage's de- pendence on war,\ Inherent in the .play, also, is a powerful demand for peace, for pacifism. The technical aspects of the Union production are, for the most part, fairly good, with perhaps an overall dirtiness and filth lacking in the cos- tumes and makeup. The lighting is especially ex- citing. In general the acting is commendable and at times excitingly good; I shall forego a list of characters with comments concerning the success or failure found by each - that decision is yours. The play will be running both Friday and Satur- day nights of this weekend. !).J.C. o/l.Jz.wLJleflf!/z The Concordiensis Editorial Board, after a heated argument and very close decision, de- cided last Tuesday to reverse its militant policy toward the fraternity system. As its first mani- festation of this new trend in promoting good will at Union, the Concordy board has chosen to review the I.F.C. Newsletter. This publica- tion, seen variously as a storehouse for news . of fraternity interest, a threat to the Conwrd- iensis, but most generally as a rival to the emperor's new clothes, is reviewed as follows: Samuel Clemens' pen name was Mark Twain. His stage name is Hal Holbrook. On March 6 1 1967 1 30 million viewers of the CBS Television Network thrilled to Hal Holbrookrs stunning portrayal of the great Mr. Twain in '/Mark Twain Tonight!rr '/The 90-minute program was easily one of the highlights of this or a~y television season./' New York Times Hear the album on COLUMBIA RECORDS~ Q)'\C0LUMB1A..~MARC:AS !lEG PRINli:O 1N US A,

EDITORIAL: Con~otd)!.::~·= .Sports 4 ~~ SK·IDMORE CALEN[.)AR Page 5 SOCIAL INEQUITY Page4 ·, --------------~ · Stipklnen Whip Panthers; Dutchmen Nine Do-w-ns Tech; Face Middlebury Here Fri. Schneider Sparks Attack By GARY PREVOST The Garnet nine ended a three _game losing streak with a decisive 9-2 win over visiting Stev- ens yesterday to even its record at 3-3. South· paw Bob Hallenback ended a personal losing streak of two games with a strong four hit per- formance striking out 15 while walking none. Stevens took a 1·0 lead with a run in the top of the second inning but the Garnet came back with three in the bottom half of the frame, helped by shoddy Stevens fielding. Stevens came back. in the sixth with a run to make the score 3-2 which it remained until the bottom of the eighth when Union exploded for six runs. Bob McAdams start- ed the big inning with a walk which was followed by a run-producing triple by Greg Olson.. Aft~r Tom Miller struck out, Toth walked and J1m Wil- son reached on an error with Olson scoring. Ken Merchant, who entered the game in the sev- enth then hit a triple to r.ight scoring Wilson and Toth, making the score 7·2. The Garnet were not finished yet, however, as Hourigan doubled, scoring Merchant and after Ha:llenback walked, Mike Solomon delivered a double, scoring Houri- gan. . Rich Neefus, the starter for 4-6 Stevens, pitched a fine game for the first seven innings, allowing onlv one hit, Toth's infield single, in the second, hut' the eighth inning proved to be his undoing. Disastrous Trip The Dutchmen made a disastrous northern trip over the weekend. losing 6-0 to an unbeaten St. Lawrence team. and 9-8 to Clarkson, giving them an 0-2 ICAC rerord. At Canton Larrie righthand· er Mike Seider shut out the Garnet on four hits, striking out nine and walking four. The Garnet threatened only once when Olson tripled leading off the fourth, but Seider worked out of the jam. Against 3-3 Clarkson the Garnet gained a 1-0 lead in the ilrst but the hosts rallied with four unearned runs in the second off sophomore start- er Joe Douglas and were never headed after that. The Garnet trailed 9-5 going into the ninth but rallied for three runs, aided by a two-run triple off the bat of Jim Wilson. Coach Lawrence feels that his team is starting to gel as the sophomores gain more experience. prevented the team from becoming really sharp. The weather has hurt the Garnet as rainouts have Tuesday's game with Norwich was called off be· cause of rain and will not be made up. The Gar· net have a very tight schedule as the season nears its end. Beginning Friday they play six games in eight days, facing Middlebury here Friday and traveling to Hamilton on Saturday. See EUROPE FOR AS LITTLE AS $449 Announcement Next week, in our final issue of the : year, the Concordy sports steff will an- . nounce the first annual Concordiensis · Athlete of the Year Award. This honor, • along with an engraved trophy, will be awarded each year to the Union Col- lege athlete whom Concordiensis con- siders to have contributed the most to Union College Intercollegiate athletics i during the year. Cindermen Lose; Al Sessom.s Out By :vi IKE KLAYMAN Last Saturday, the Garnet cindermen won their second straight meet by downing Middlebury B4· 56. Plagued by a recent rash of pulled muscles, Co:e01cn:s teain lost to undefeated RPI by a score of 104-41. The season record now stands at 2-2. Against !\1idlebury, Joe James won the discus event with a shot of 143' 9%, \ just over 10\' short of the school record he .set in the Trinity meet. AI Sessoms placed second to John Peters in the 100, came hack to take the 44(), but injured his leg and was unable to compete in the meet against RPI. In addition to the 100; Peters took first place in the 220 with respective times of 10,8 and 23.3. Other Union firsts went to Art McCabe, broad and triple jumps; Ed Monfred, intermediate hur- dles; Larry MacFarlane, high hurdles; Al Bask- ous, javelin; Fitz Turner, high jump. A tie between Turner and John Baird in the high jump resulted in the only Garnet five pointer against RPI. Charles Sabatelle and Bob Ericson suffered pulled muscles during the meet. The most improvement was credited to Chris Brown- ell for his 2:06 in the 880. The Garnet Frosh also lost to the Engineers, 100-41. Firsts in both the 220 and 440 were taken by Carl Thurn. including hotels The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP FUGAZY TRAVEL BUREAU 434 State Street 374-4111 or Call JACK ETKIN, Fugazy Campus Rep., Chi Psi 346-9829 262 Saratoga Road MAX.FAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neol\ Pipe lUES. thiu ·il\.1.7 to 9 P.M • .... ~ ... ~ '~ :.r THURS: \\-Qnci'Fitl. :. 7 to 9 PM ..... < -~ <;; :· SCOTIA, fli. Y. Phone. 399-1630 . t By LEN SIMON With victories over Clarkson and Middlebury this week, the lacrosse team pushoed its winping streak to five games, and now stands at 6'1. They host St. Lawrence Saturday at 2i00 and next Wednesday take on Cortland State~ .possib~y their toughest opponent of the season. Saturday afternoon, in front of a banner Par- ents' Weekend crowd, the sticlanen broke from a 2·1 halftime lead, to clobber Clal\kson 10-L Lee Schneider and Steve Ritterbush a~ain led the at- tack, but many other Garnet playtJrs .played im· portant parts in the victory. Schn.eider scored 3 goals, and assisted on two others, all of his goals coming in the final period. Rit1:erbush tallied THE. PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS md Nutmeats from all ove. the world. 406 STATE ST. IF C Weekend Serving fJnion f:.or 33 Years May 19-20 Friday, May 19: 8:30 p.m.---Memorial Chapel Convoc,ation GLEE CLUB CONCERT THEODOR UPPMAN of the Metropolitan Opera as guest Saturday, May 20: Memorial Field House-8-12 Free Beer and Band SILVER DINER of Schenectady . , ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 .,. Excellent FotJ. and· Informal Atmosphere RELAX! PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIAR-D LOUNGE 167 Jay Street or FAMILY BILLIARDS 1615 Union Street Spocl ol student rates FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE LUIGI'S RESTAURANT goalie Ken Auerbach was forced to make only t~ n saves, as compared to 27 by the Clarkson goalie. Yesterday they traveled to Middlebury and coasted to a g.5 victory after building up an 8-0 lead midway through the third quarter. Schneider again sparked the attack with 4 goals. DiU had two, and Ken Milne, Tad Knight, and Jones each hit the net once. The freshmel). split two decisions, leaving th!)ir record at 4·1. They face Siena Friday and R.P.I. Wednesday in their final two contests, both at hobe. Saturday they were defeated by a strong Cort- land frosh 4-3. Pete Garrison, Ron Wall and Kim Hull scored the goals as the frosh came from a 4-1 deficit, but fell one tally short. Yesterday they battled back from a 3-1 first period disad- vantage to trounce Middlebury 3-7. Garrison had 4 goals, while Wall and Bob Lap.ge scored 3 each. Steve Ciesinski, Paul Bufi', and Jim Sabella scored once apiece. ' ' G8 GUT' IN A t • Open to Fraternity Men and Pledges Only SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food t ~ t $35.00 TO 50.00 Couples Only - No Stags 1125 BARRETT ST. Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Schenectady 01 6-'9744 326 STATE STREI;T Visit Our Cocktail Bar ~quir:e ~f1np A Adt Sta~ By The All-C1 ly passed a J which put h eralized set Union. Included i a statement phy concern college. Th by. Dean 'I sertts guidel ministration munity in '' fillment,\ th faculty, stud E The new J to entertain !'OOIDS from on Sunday from 12 noc day· and Sa· abte to enj party curfe1 en(ls per t thes¢. activit the Dean of Thi;! Stud proposal, en Union Inter· again from l cil's resoluti 1:00 a.m. w• men, and • hours from day; upperc joyed 2:00 a visiting hou on Sunday, • days. . LFC Presil proxy for f freshmen w college free< more restri< classmen; b classmen \c 1\,StllldEmt me1 point ·on enfm.:ceable, able. In ore to discussior adopt the Sl the final res S.C. propos gested by D Co state .~iJ.dopti!m by de ge since Presi< the student • statement, c tration, preE and pbiloso1 By Rl and The typic wants to m ex:empt stat1 Vietnam an a co~educat the result o lUbited at ~poll, entS\ reflec1 an ·extrernel studimt opi from Social draft to opi pass-fail aw Roughly· favored an use of clas: status is on students po cent of the awarding d (including centages of the Vietnar it was ind the admini: ored the be the MIG a wished to sl to negotiatE favored de withdrawal. Eignty pc favors the 1 weekends c concert aff receiving a student boc liv 'favor studE off-campus Opi~ion • be a bit pr highly inte

only and an 8-0 had each th!lir R.P.I. at Cort- Kim from a disad- had 3 each. o scored here- to ACC APPROVES LIBERALIZATION Adntinistration Presents Staten~ent of Philosophy By JOSEPH MANN The All-College Council unanimous• ly passed a .proposal Wednesday night which put into immediate effect a lib· eralized set of social regulations at Union. Included in the same resolution was a . statement of the college's phHoso- phy concerning residential life at the cot!ege. This statement, introduced by . Dean Theodore Lockwood pre• serits guidelines along which the ad- ministration wishes to create \a com- munity in which each attains self-ful- fillment,\ through the co-operation of faculty, students and administrators. Extended Hours The new regulations allow students to entertain female guests in their rooms from 12 noon until 8:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday, and froiP,. 12 noon until 2:00 p.m. on Fri- day and Saturday. Students will be able to enjoy a 3:00 a.m. weekend party curfew, as before, four week- en(ls per term,; party permits for these activities must be obtained from the Dean of Student's Office. Th~ student Council's suggested proposal, embraced in whole by the Union Inter-resident Council, ditfered again from the Inter-Fraternity Coun- cil's resolution. The IFC called for a 1:00 a.m. weekend curfew for fresh· men, ~nd 4;00 to 8:00 p.m. social hours from Sunday through Thurs- day; upperclassmen would have en· joyed 2:00 a.m. weekend curfews, and visiting hours from noon to 11 p.~. on Sunday, 1:00 to 8:00p.m. on week- days. . lFC President-elect Dick Amesbury, proxy .fQr Hunter Louis, stated that freshmen would be unaccustomed to college freedom and thus should have more restricted curfews than upper- classmen; he felt also that upper- classmen \deserved\ more freedom. members Doc Benjamin and . challenged this view· point on grounds that it was un- enforceable, unhealthy and unfeas- able. In order to open the proposal to discussion, Dean Pollock moved to adopt the Student Council's proposal; the final resolution included both the S. C. proposal and the preface sug- gested by Dean Lockwood. College Philosophy statement proposed for ACC ,il\~ad(>Ptwn by Dean Lockwood is the declaration of the adminis· general community policy since President Martin's address to the student body last spring. Tbe · statement, drawn up by the adminis- tration, presents the goals; guidelines and philosophy of residential life at Union College. Adoption of this phil- osophy by the .A:CC. g!xes. the entire community a set o1 gurdelmes for ac- tion in residential living, The, ~re~a~e to the nE!w rule:;\ sta~es that \comlltwns gevern~ng res1dentlal life at Union College should: 1) J1:n- hance, not interfere with academic objecth:e~; 2) Resp.ect the .right of the ind1v1dual to privacy, qruet, even solitude, and reasonable comfort; 3) Assure each person that what others will choose to do will ill no way dam- age, injure or take away the dignity of himself or any guest;, 4) Recognize the interests of the community as a whole; and 5) Provide for individual self-respect and individual responsi- bility within the community. \When these assumptions permeate a cornpus community-when the man- ner in which .persons conduct them- selves reflects ,both the dignity of the individual and a responsivenel!S to the needs of this community, a liberal col- lege dedicated to preserving those values which permit each of us to pur- sue the good life, then we maY hope to have created a coTl'munity in which each attains self-ftllfillment.\ Guide lines Tile declaration concerns itself di- rect'y with guidelines which \express the intent of these ideals\ and also \provide for the welfare. of the in- dividual and the protectiOn of the community.\ These guidelines include 1) respect for property and posses· sions; 2) Considerate use of alcoholic and other stimulants and :J) a clear understanding on the meaning and implications of the guidelines which govern the entertainment of women in the residential units. Failure to comply with the first point as was evidenced by some liv- iM tlnits after last weekend, will re· sult in the removal of Privileges. Flag- rant drunkenness and disorderliness will be punished by suspension or pro- bation; the college here declares its opposition to the use of illegal drugs . And finally, with re_gard to the th~d point the college w1shes to provide not <lnly privacy for individuals but also feels \the public necessity ... to indicate its position with respect to the mores which appear to be in the best interests of this community and society.\ The college explicitly stares that it will not condone premarital sexual intercourse or deviant sexual behavior within its precincts. Disre- gard of this will result in suspension for an indefinite period. Students Crave Damsels; Favor Draft Exelllptions By RICHARD BALAGUR . and NEAL GORDON ; ·I';~ The typical Union College-stu~ wants to maintain his present dt'it exempt statu~. and contiril.!-e thl! wmo.irt Vietnam and overwhelmmgly favors a co~educational Union according --to the result of a Concordiensis poll cir- t QlJlted at Spring Term registration. favor the 3·3 system over the tradi· tional system. Six: out of ten desired, however, that comp-ed courses should ·be pass-fail. with the same percenta~e -- in favor of the comp-ed program It- self. At least six out of ten students wish to have females on campus, with 60% in favor of establishing a co-ordinate college (as is Barnard or RadcliH) and 80~~ favoring Union going co-ed. The final aspect of college life that Continued on Page 2 New ExtenSions Summarized o Student Rooms o,pen to female guests from 12:00 noon till 2:00 a.m. on all Fridays and Saturdays o Rooms open from 12:00 noon till 8:00 p.m., Su.1day thru Thursday c :Each living unit may request, upon petition, four 3:00 a.m. weekend curfews per term \ o Same rules to apply to all residences; Freshme.1, 'Fraternities, and Residence Halls Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 96 - No. 27 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1967 PRICE 15 CENTS College Creeps Toward Liberal Vi.ewpoint ,. The All-College Council, shown above, yesterday approvad the social rules liberdlizations first proposed by Mike _ Michalski, President of the U I C. Seated, from left to right, are ACC members Ed Downey, Prof. Tolan, Ben Volinski, Prof. Goble, and Bob Benjamin. Standing are Hunter Louis, Dean Lockwood, Frank McKim, and Dean Pollock. Mike Michalski is absent. When the class of '70 applied to Union few knew of and even fewer cared about Social Rules. Other than a few vague rumblings the previous year about social priv:ileges and an ex- pression of President Martin's inter- est in the matter, little progress had been made toward new social rules after the last deadline passed for ap- plications for admission. Early that January several Fresh- men extended an invitation to Presi- dent Martin to discuss the rationale behind the current rules prohibiting room dating privileges. At this meet- ing the President stated that a -seri- ous study and possible revision are \long overdue.\ Encouraged by the interest shown by President Martin and Dean Lockwood a Student Cottn- cil Committee on Social Rules Revi- sion was formed to draft recommen- dations to be presented to the Board of Trustees-. The committee, composed of Ed Clark, a resident adviser, Barry New- man, editor-in-chief of Concordiensis, Jeff Rabler, Student Coun~il Presi- dent. and Paul Costello, Freshman ( '69) Class President, proposed that dormitory rooms and lounges be opened during certain hours, on week- ends. No mention was made of any desire to permit weekday hours. Ac- companying the P.roposal was a lengthy statement explaining the philosophy behind the proposals. The bulk of these statements were written by Rod- ham Tulloss, the editor of the Idol, who had been deeply involved in the controversy regarding the new rules. The resolution, passed unanimously by the Student Council, called for the the following hours: 6 p.m. to mid- night Friday; 12 noon to 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. to midnight Saturday; and 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. Sunday. At an Executive meeting held Mon- day, April 18, l!:l66, the Board of Trustees raised no objections to the set of proposals submitted by the All- College Council and the new social mles went into effect for Spring Weekend, 1966. When the Board of Trustees ap- proved the new social rules they also granted the administration the power to make any other changes in the ru'es, if they deemed them desii:'e- ab:e, in response to student requests. Consequently, the All-College Council ~as th~ power _to institute any rules tt desn:es, sub) ect only to the veto of the President of the College, Three Guidelines iTlie poll, a survey of over 500 stud- entS\ reflects what is believed .to be an ·extremely accurate cross-sectlon of student opinion on issues ranging from Social Rules, Vietnam and the draft to opinion of the ne:w trimester, pass-fail and ciunpus actiVities. Volunteers Roughly three out of ten students favored an all-volunteer army. The use of class rank to determine draft status is only favored by 12% of the students polled, while fifty-seven per- cent of the answers were in favor of awarding deferments to all students (including grad students). The per- centages of those people interested in the Vietnam situation were close, as it was indicated that 45% favored the administration's policy, 41 o/o fav- ored the bombing (this was prio!.\ to the MIG airfield attacks), and 43% wished to stop the bombing and trying to negotiate. Four out of ten students favored de-escalation and gradual withdrawal. Bennett Enters Politics Following the proposal of the new social ruies President Martin ad- dres.sed the student body to urge re- stramt. He offered three guidelines for student · .~onduct. The first in- volved the proper respect for college property, and the second the use of liquor. The third, and most contro- versial, pertained to sexual behavior \The sexual union should be the cul: mit).ation _of ~ntimacy, based on a dee:!? and contmumg personal relationship and not a compensation for failure.\ He further stated, \The College will not condone pre-marital sexual inter- course or deviant sexual behavior within its precincts.\ Big Weekends Eiglity percent of the student body favors the plan of three or four \~ig\ weekends over the smaller one inght concert affairs. The only question receiving a higher support among the student body was that concerning off- living. Ninety-four percent 'favor students being allowed to live off-campus if they so desire. Opinion on the new tri-mester may be a bit premature, nevertheless it is highly interesting. Seven out of ten By NEIL S. KRA,MER The germ of Assistant Professor William Bennett's campaign for the Schenectady County Board of Repre- sentatives was generated last night in an informal get-tQgether in the candidate's home. Leaders and interested members of the Democratic Party in downtown Schenectady as well as Professors Finklestein, William Daniels, Sher- wood Fox, and Mr. Carman, met with Bennett who is running with three other Democrats for four seats at- large on the County Board of Repre· sentatives. T)ley have . to fi!J-d a .way to overcome a 2,1 regtstratron d1sad· vantaae- in order foJ,' the U'nion eco· nomi.;g professor to win a seat. Dynamic Sc11enectadion Bennett has three big advantages. He is a native Schenectadian, a grad· uate of Nott Street High School, and his father was for many years the head of the Economics Department of Union. A young man, he lends an aura of dynamism to the electorate in a Schenectady community that is plagued with a dying downtown shop- ping district, a growing slum problem, and ~¥ficulties with the labor unions at ~~eral Electric. Thirdly, Ben- nett's:. very presence in Schenectady serves to deny the feeling that the community is sffering from a \brain drain,\ since he is a gifted native son who returned to Schenectady to make his home. ·$1.4 MIL~ION.~GR~NT The College has received a grant of $1,433,800 from the office of Health, Education and Welfare Office of Ed· uation under the Title I Higher Edu- cation Facilities Act of 1963. The grant will be used for the construc- tion of the proposed undergraduate Science-Engineering Complex. The grant is part of a renovation involving $5,395,150, for the construction of 2 new buildings and remod~ling of 3 others. It was announced by Sen~tor Robert F. Kennedy (D.-N.Y.) yester· day in Washington. Union will also receive a $50,000 grant for laboratory and other special equipment and materials. The issues iil Bennett's campaign will focus on the newly authorized community college and county library, and the question of local \vest-pocket\ parks. Silk Stockings Vital The key to Bennett winning will be in his ability to capture the silk stock- ing districts in downtown Schenec- tady which are nominally Republican but should find a Union professor an attractive candidate. However, Bennett must gain voter recognition if he is to have any chance of winning a place on the County Board of Representatives. He is plan- ning speaking engagements and ap- pearances at ward committee meet- ings, neighborhood coffees, and house to house calls as well as a letter writ- ing campaign along with radio, news- paper, and television advertising. In addition to his teaching duties at Union, Bennett is adviser to the .undergraduate Industrial Administra- tion program and is playin~h!. prom- inent role in planning tn&·:Opward Bound project which is starting this· summer. In the past year the students have operated under these new rules and in many cases found them unsatis- factory. A proposal made by the Un- lon Inter-Residence Council to in· crease the weekend hours and to al- low weekly hours was unanimously passed by the Student Council and a similiar but much more conservative proposal was made by the Inter-Fra· ternity Council. The ACC considered these proposals and then decided to refer the proposals back to the orig- inatinQ; bodies for further considera- tion. Last night these councils again submitted their p~;oposals for consid- eration by the ACC.

2 Thursday, May Ronald Powell - ... ,.c .. Earns Rank of Top Student Faculty Approves Fine Arts Major Eight College Engineers. I) , 41 Ronald Powell '67 will deliver the valedictory address at commencement exercises to be held Sunday, June 11. This honor was voted him by the faculty at a meeting that awarded other academic and honorary awards. Powell, a physics major, will graduate with an unprecedented 4.00 cumula- tive index, after only three years at Union. He will attend Stanford for graduate study in physics. B Student Paul Sherwin '67 has been selected salutatorian. He will be graduating \vith a cumulative index of over 3.99. His only B was in oral French· in his freshman year. Sherwin plans to do graduate study at Yale. Both won Woodrow Wilson Fellow- ships for graduate study and were elected to Phi Beta Kappa earlier in the year. At the A ward's Day Cere- mony, held last Saturday, both also won George H. Catlin awards of $1,000 each and numerous other prizes. News Briefs ~Iajor public and academic libraries throughout the Capital District are now linked by a daily inter-library courier service to facilitate movement of books and materials from one li- brary to another. The system comprising some 15 academic libraries plus three feder- ated groups of public libraries, draws its financial support from a state program for reference and research libraries. Simultaneously, Dr. Tolan announced the rele.ase of the latest edition of another of the Council's efforts a \union list\ of periodicals held • by seven area libraries-six in the Capi- tal District, plus Hamilton College in Clinton. The 312-page volume, com- piled by Mrs. Kiyo Tomiyasu and Francis Hyll of the Schaffer Library at Union, lists some 3,823 periodicals in the seven libraries, together with the holdings of each library in each title. Further efforts by Union to aid William Lasnik were announced here recently by various campus. organi- zations and individuals. Since Lasnik was stricken with a cerebral hemmorhage, the Student Council has appropriated $1,300. Phi Epsilon Pi has contributed $500 and The I.F.C. has given $350 to the :ever- growing \Friends of William Lasnik\ Fund. Phi Ep is writing a letter which ~vill be s«;nt t? house alumni explain- mg the s1tuat10n confronting and ap- pealing for help. Robert Marshall '67, Secretary of the Student Council, announced that he is preparing a similar letter to be sent to the college community. The Department of the Arts has announced that a major in the arts has . been formally approved by the faculty council. This new major will be officially instituted into the curriculum this fall. A student will be able to major in either music or art, and eventually in drama. The student will be ', requil'ed to take a minimum ·Of 9 courses in .one of the arts. Within these 9 courses, 6 can be in art studio or music composition (depending upon the field in which the student is centering) and 3 in art history or music lite~­ ature. If the student sa desires, he may take 3 courses in art studio or music composition, plus 6 in art, history or music Hterature. To complete the major, 3 courses must .be taken in another art within the department. Beyond this, the usual college requirements, such as Com- • prehensive Education (chosen from options in Center II), must be :tulfilled. Also, 6 cognate coutses are recommended by the department from the .fol~ lowing fields: Anthropology, Classics, English, History, and Philosophy. With · respect to these cognate courses, no more than three m.ay he taken from any one department. · Live Presence of the Arts This preposal is not, according to Arts faculty, a first step to something narrower. The department wants to give Union somethil}g it has never had-a growing and increasingly live presence of the arts on campus. In an interview, Professor Curtis, Chairman of the department, and Mr. Bittleman, artist-in-Residence,. said that the development of a relationship · betw.een the arts and the other disciplines is thought beneficial to the student .. · They gave as an example a Biology major who found himself suddenly able to do research during lab periods after having worked in the art studio. This year Union is graduating a mechanical engineering student who has proven himself to be an exceedingly promising young composer. After hear- ing one of his compositions, the chairman of the music department at Wil- liams College r.emarked, \It's embarrassing to be a professor.\ 'l'he arts department is interested in the value of the art major to the . rest of the student body. It is hoped that this new major will help to at- tract more students of real imagination and application to Union. Its ultimate objective will be to aid a great many of Union's students in finding other patterns beside the verbal. Plans for a dance to be held to benefit Lasnik were cancelled. · Individual contributions by mem- bers of the ce!lege community should be given to Mrs. Mara in Student Ac- tivities. Checks should be payable to Union College. Last Thursday, May 11, 1967, $60 was stolen from a safe in the Treas- urer's office in the Administration Building. An unknown person or persons entered the building through a window in the adjacent office some- time between 2:30 a.m. and 5:15 a.m. The thieves pried open the safe, used for storing petty cash, with the help of a crowbar which was left behind. It is thought that the robbery was the work of more than one per- son since the safe was found lying half open on the floor and is too heavy to be lifted by one person. Schenectady police are investigating the inci~ent. To prevent the recurrence of such an incident, security officials have been alerted and there is a possibility that an alarm system may be installed in the area. Dr. Robert M. Walker, McDonnell Professor of Physics at Washington University in St. Louis, will receive an honorary Doctor of Science degree from Union College at Commence- ment ceremonies concluding the 172nd college year here June 11. All seniors who have ordered grad- uation announcements should pick them up at the Student Activities Office Old Gym Hall, as soon as pos- sible. 'All announcements not claimed soen will be sold to local high school seniors at half-price .. Several students have not yet filed housing applications for the 1967-1968 school year. Applications remain available at the Office of Residence Urograms in Fox House. However 1 it should be noted that students makmg application at this late date will not retain previous prioritiEs. All stu- dents :must tile an application for the 1967-1968 school year for college resi- dence halls, fraternity houses, or ex- .emption for off-campus housing. Poll. • • Continued from Page 1 was questioned concerned opinions on campus organizations. WRUC receiv- ed the most support (80% ), with the major complaint being WRUC's ,pro- gram choice. Fortunately those in- terested in claSsical, jazz and folk music, will be pleased with the pro- rosed WRUC-FM station. Student Council, All-College Council and Concordiensis polled respectiv~ly 51 55 and 60 percent in favor. Objec: tions were concerned with lack of communication, conservative action a~d house-control. Twenty percent d1d not vote on the Garnet, hoping that this year's edition greatly sur- passes last year's. Thirty-seven per- cent favored the last edition of the Garnet. And finally, six out of ten favored the Idol. The Concordiensis greatly appreci- ates the concern and sincerity with which the poll was met. Elected To Tau Beta Pi The Uni<Jn College chapter of Tau Beta Pi, the national engineering honor society, has elected to member- ship the fo llowiug _studeuts: Robert J:\11. :Bar.k:an '68, electrical en- gineering Eugene J. Bazan '67., electrical en- gineel\ing and economics Bruce l\1. Gans ''68, e!ectrical engi. neering Doutas '1~. Hatch '68, mechanical engineering ah d math Andrew ·C. Radak ~67,. mechanical engineering .Tames VV. Male '68, civil engineer- ing John R Peters: '68, mechanica'l en- gineering and history Richard H. ·Rachals '67, mechanical engineering Four~ded in '85 Tau Beta Pi, tl1e engineering equiv- alent of Phi :Beta Kappa, was founded in 1885 at 1ehi,gh. University \to mark in a fittiltg. manner those who have .conferred honol\' 1,1pon their Alma Mater by distinguished scholarship and exemplary cnaracter as under· graduates in engineering ... \ 'Ih·.~ Union ch.apter was estab:ished in 1964. The new rnemllers will be honored at the ann11al T'a11 Beta Pi banquet on Sunda~;. May :Zl, where Clarence H. Linder \vHl bE guest speaker. Lin- der, Research Professor of Engineer- ing at Uni:()n an.d retired vice presi- dent of the General Electric Com- Student 'Crime Rises Sharply The C()n n1:ttee on Disicipline has placed a tilird year student on Dis· ciplinary Probatl<m until graduation for shoplifLijg in a Schenectady de· partment store. ·Eight students have been ap[)rehl\nded for this type of misconduct du.ring the c11rrent school year. The Committee wishes to ex- press its concern to the student body that this sh.ould not continue. Disci· plinary action 'Wi}.l be taken in all cases coming to tJle attention of the College, even if ~ivil action has aJ. ready oceurred. The reputation and integrity of all Union College stud~ ents is placed in question by the few who violate tne basic right of private or corpm.-ate property. All students, therefore~ have a .responsibility to pro· teet therr cvvn interests by doing everytiling possible to discourage and stop theft on and off the campus. A valuaple portrait of Woodrow Wilson. a.utographedt has been stolen from the Oollection m 115 Social Sci- ence Building, and a swivel based chair, red with c:hrome arms has been taken fr()m Dav;idson Hall in the last three days. Cheap Weekend~~ Sponsored By .. WRVCRadioi WRUC Radio will join other organi- n; . zations on campus this weekend in · providing the student body with low cost diversion from the academic pur- smt. 'II Pete Tierney, Promotion Director of WRUC has dubbed the festivities Economy Weekend and WRUC's par- ticipation will be highlighted by a Bad~~ Guys vs. Skidmore Baseball game on I' Saturday afternoon. The game will take place on Library Field in front of Nott Memorial at 2 p.m. Broadcast Live The event will be broadcast live to Union and Skidmore over WRUC with Jeff Hedquist and Pete Tierney doing 11 the play by play. WRUC's air flavor will take on a distinctly feminine soun4 before and after the g;t~e when: Skidmore \good girls\ will han-J dle the announcing chores. I The advent of girl disc-jockeys is I ·. an experiment according to Program · · Director Gary Abrahmson. \The sta-~ tion has received many calls !rom 1 Saratoga requesting air time over the I past few months( stated Abrahmson, prompting Saturday's ·distaff lineup. fJ . Challe, e Abrahmson addecji that meeting ~he ' chall~nge would t ve interesting both ;for the parti ts and the lis· fl teners. WRUC is publi g the Satprday night movie in M¢inorial Chapel as the f~nale of Satqrday's gratis goodies.~ · Admission to the movies is one dollar r:er person, the proceeds being do· nated to the Committee to Rescue , Italian Art. : The free baseball game and the low fll cost Jr.OVies will be s11pplemented by an IFC sponsored free beer bl~t for fraternity men and their dates Satur· day night in the Field House. A glee club concert will highlight Friday evening's entertainment. There is no t barge for the concert. ZELLMER'S NORGE DIAMANTE'S RELAX! RITZ RESTAURANT LAUNDRY AND CUANING VILLAGE AT 1S59 VANVRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ 4 Lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb.------------ DRYERS 30 Lb.------------ 10 Min.----------- .10 .25 .35 .50 OPE!'.' - 8 A.l\1. to 10 P.M. Mon. to Fri. - Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.l\1. 10 .<\..M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAO NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED HELP WANTED Counselors for summer camp for children. Good sal- aries for qualified Group Counselors or Specialist. 9 Week season, camp located in Central Massachusetts. Also some non-counseling jobs opened at legal mi11imllm wage hourly rates. Higher for especially qualified people. For Further information call Troy 272-6562 after 6 P.M. MONARCH CLASS NOTES Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 Jay Street or fAMILY BILLIARDS 1615 Union Street Spo~ial student rates THE PEANUT STORE FEATURING PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS AND NUT MEATS FROM ALL OVER TI-lE WORLD. 406 STATE STREET 1725 \lan Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try 011r Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily except Mondays UNION BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET Books • • • Paperback Classics Party Favors • ·l· Art Supplies l ---:::-+:--- Office Supplies and STUDY GUIDES LUIGI'S RESTAURANT 262 SAitATO GA RfAD AVENUE· PIZZERIA I 8.60 Eastern Ave. at JOHN'S NEWS 155 Clinton St. SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food I 125 BAR.RETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar \ MAYFAIR SHOPPING q':ENfER At the Sign of the Reef Neon Pipe Mon. thru Sat.: 9:30 AM to. 6 PIA. Thurs. and Fri.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. PHOI'IE 399- 1630 W~ DELIVER ~IZZA ·PHONE '393-0870 Spring we h<!-ve fun, of att if this cottcert· to a This year Project and typical 'Un1 .panies any c ... well, th' didn't alway mildly poor: f intermission As for tl quite a few. lent drumrr '·power and drummer n plays music in the prog play many without stic solo with n beautifuL Speaking great. First War (you 1 sonally I st on Poverty be usual cat-ca the audience Mason. Although ed a bit sti played a ni produced al Then that became an l that the gr• play hard n stick to onE Back to H spicing roc: sometimes v playing roc1 they did on of Deeds.\ As I see i they play tc entire grou ~uitarist Da be is more tainly don't. 'bY his sheei handedly m Secondly, I know that denying !h~ ~ f *A. 4 4 6 A A.&.. The Gc tration tects a York C all asp1 tion an1 buildin1 ANE ~· •• -4

2 Thursday, May 18, 1967 Thursday, J Ronald Powell Faculty Approves Fine Arts Major Eight College Engineers' c Earns Rank of rfop Student Ronald Powell '67 will deliver the' valedktory address at commencement t•xercises to be held Sundav. June 11. This honor was \·oted hf111 bv tht> faculty at a meeting tlilat a\\:a.rded other academic and honorary award~. l'o\\'ell, a physics major. will graduate ll'ith an unprecedented 4.00 cumu 1::1- tive index, after onlv three vears at Union. He will att~nd Stanford fot\ graduate stud~ in physics. !3 Student Paul ShNwin '67 has been selected salutatorian. Be will be graduating with a cumulative index of over 3.99. His onlv B was in oral French in his freshman year. Sherwin plans to dn t.:radnatc stud)' at Yak Both \\on Woodrow Wil:-mn Fello\1'· ships for graduate study and were elcetcd to Phi Beta Kappa earlier in tlw ~·ear. At the Award's Day Cere'· mony, held last Saturday, both also won George H. Catlin awards of $1.000 Pach and numerous other prizes. News Briefs :Hajor public and academic libraries throu.~hout the Capital District are now linked b:-· a daily inter-library courier service to facilitate movement of books and mate>rials from one li· hrary to another. The svstem comprising some l5 academic libraries plus three fedet\- atcd groups of public libraries, draws its finaneial support from a state program for reference and research libraries. Simultaneously, Dr. Tolan announced the release of the latest edition ()f another of the Council's efforts, a \union list\ of periodicals held by -;even area libraries-six in the Capi- tal District. plus Hamilton College in Clinton. The 312·page volume, com- piled by ~lrs. Kiyo Tomiyasu and Francis Ityll of the Schaffer Library at linion, lists some 3,823 periodicals Ill the seven libraries, together with the ho 1 dings of each libt\arv in each title. • Further efforts by Union to aid \Villiam Lasnik were announced het\e recently hy various campus organi- zations and individuals. Since Lasnik was stricken with a cerebral hemmorhage, the Student Council has appropriated $1,300. Phi Epsilon Pi has contributed $500 and The I.F.C. has given $350 to the 'ever- growing \Friends of William Lasnik.\ Fund. Phi Ep is \ITiting a letter whit:h ~\'ill he s~nt t? house alumni explain- mg the situatiOn confronting and ap- r:ealing for help. Robert Marshall '!:i7. Secretary of the Student Council. announced that he is preparing a similar letter to be :-oent to the college community. l'he Department of the Arts has announced that a major in the arts has been formally approved by the faculty council. This new major will be oftlcially instituted into the curriculum this fall. A student wH! be able to major in either music or art, and e\'entually in drama. The student witl be required to take a minimum <Jf !l courses in one of the arts. With·in these 9 courses, 6 can be in art studio or music composition (depending upon the field in which the st<Jdent 1s centering J and 3 in art histo·ry or music liter· ature. If the student so desires, he may take' 3 courses in art studio or music coinpos:tion, plus 6 in art, history or music literature. To complete Ute n1ajor, 3 courses must be taken in another art within the department. Beyond this, the usual coHrgc requirements, such as Com- preheHsivc Education (chosen from options in Center II), must be fulfilled. .. Also, 6 cognate coHrsPs are recommcndE:'d by the department from the fol- lo\Ying tields: Anthropology, Cl·assics, English, 1-Iistory, and Philosophy. With :te~pect to these cognate courses. no JHore than tJqree ma~· be taken from an)' one department. Live Presence of the Arts This proposal 1s not, according to Arts faculty, a i'irst step to something nart\O\\·er. The depart1~1ent wants to give Union something it has never :had-a growing and iacreasingly live presenre of the arts on campus. In an iFttervie\\, Professor Curtis, Chairman of the department, and Mr. Bittleman, artist-in-Reside11ce, said that the development of a relationship between the arts and the other disciplines is thought benefi.eial to the student. 'They gave as an example a Biology H~ajor who found himself suddenlv able to do research during Jab periods after having worked in the art studio. This year Union is graduating a mechat:tical engineering student who has pl.'\ oven himself to be an <\Xcredingly promising yot:mg composer. After hear· ing one of his compositions. the chairrnan of the music department at Wil- liams College remarked, \It's embarrassing to be a professor.\ The arts department is interested in the \'alue of the art major to the rest of the student body. It is hoped that this new major will help to at- tract more students of real imagination and application to Union. Its ultimate objective will be to aid a great many of Union's students in finding other patterns beside the verbal. P lam for a dance to be held to benefit Lasnik were cancelled. Individual contributions by mem- bers of the college community should be given to :\Irs. l\lara in Student Ac- tivities. Checks should be payable to L- nicn College. Last Thursday, May 11, 1967, $60 was stolen from a safe in the Treas- LlTcr's office in the Administration Building. An unknown person or p~rsons entered the building through a 1vindow in the adjacent office some- time between 2:30 a.m. and 5:15 a.m. The thieves pried open the safe. used for storing petty cash, with the help of a crowbar which was left benind. It is thought that the robbery was thE' work of more than one per- son since the safe was found lying half open on the floor and is too heavy to be lifted by one person. Scnenectady police are investigating the inciC!ent. To prevent the recurrence of such an incident, security officials have been alerted and there is a possibility that an alarm system may be installed in the area. Dr. Robert lVI. Walker, McDonnell Professor of Physics at Washington University in St. Louis, will receive an honorary Doctor of Science degree fTD m Union College at Commence- ment ceremonies concluding the 172nd co'1ege year here June 11. All seniors who have ordered grad- uation announcements should pick them up at the Student Activities Olfice Old Gym Hall, as soon as pos- sible. 'All announcements not claimed -----, soon will be sold to local high school seniors at half-price. Several students have not yet filed housing applications for the 1967-1968 school year. Applications remain ::~vailable at the Office of Residence Urograms in Fox House. However, it she uld be noted that students making application at this late date will not retain previous priorities. All stu- dents must tile an application for the 19B7-1968 school year for college resi- denc~ halls, fraternity houses, or ex- E>mptwn for off-campus housing. Poll . • • Continued from Page 1 was questioned concerned opinions on campus organizations. WRUC receiv- ed the most support (80%), with the major complaint being WRUC's pro- gram choice. Fortunately those in- tet\ested in classical, jazz and folk music, will be pleased with the pro- rased WRUC-FM station. Student Council, All-College Council and Concordiensis polled respectiv~ly 51 55 and 60 percent in favor. Objec: tions were concerned with lack of communication, conservative action a1,1d house-control. Twenty percent did not vote on the Garnet, hoping that this year's edition greatly sur- passes last year's. Thirty-seven per- cent favored the last edition of the Garnet. And finally, six out of ten favored the Idol. The Concordiensis greatly appreci- ates the concern and sincerity with which the poll was met. Electe·d To Tau Beta Pi Spring W· to have fun ti()ns of at (' And .if thi~ The Union College chapter of Tau Beta Pi, the national engineering honor society, has elected to mcn~ber­ ship the following stude,}ts: Robet\t lVI. Barkan '68, electrical en- gineering Eu:;ene J. Bazan '67, electrical en- gineering and economics Bruce M. Gans '68, e:ectrical engi- neering Doug'as E. Hatch engineering aHd Andrew C. Kadak engineering '68, mechanical math '67, mechanical James W. Male '68, civil engineer- ing John R. Peters '68, mechaNical en- gineering and history Richard H. Rachals '67, mechanical engineering Founded in '85 Tau Beta Pi, the engineering equiv- alent of Phi Beta Kappa, was founded in 1885 at Lehigh U11.iversity \to mark in a fitting manner those who have con£erred honor upon their Alma Mater by distinguished scholarship and exemplary character as under- graduates in engineering . . . \ 'l h • Union chapter was estab :ished in 1964. The new members will be honored at the annual Tau Beta Pi banquet on Sunday, May 21, where Clarence H. Linder will be guest speaker. Lin- der, Research Professor of Engineer- ing at Union and retired vice presi- dent of the General Electric Com· Student Crime Rises Sharply The Con m'ttee en Disicipline has placed a third year student on Dis- ciplinary Probatwn untii graduation for shoplift-ng in a Schenectady de- partment store. Eight students have been apprehended for this type of misconduct during the current school year. The Committee wishes to ex- press its concern to the student body that this should not continue. Disci- plinary action wiH be taken in all cases coming to the attention of the College, even if civil action has al- ready occurred. The reputation and integrity of all Union College stud- ents is placed in question by the few who violate the basic right of private or corporate property. All students, therefore, have a responsibility to pro- tect their own interests by doing everything possib!e to discourage and stop theft on and off the campus. A valuable portrait of Woodrow Wilson, autographed, has been stolen from the Collection in 115 Social Sci- ence Building, and a swivel based chair, red with chrorr.e arms has been taken from Davids:m Hall in the last three days. •• p~ny, will speak on current develop- 1 to~cnts m engineering. He is past tH e3.dent of the Institute of Electrical JnJ Electronics Engineers and of the _ . ational Academy of Engineering, 1 \ and is currently serving as president · of the Engineers' Joint Council. E~igib:e for membership are juniors 11 wh::J rank in the top eighth of their I ' concert to ; 'Tllis yea1 f Proj~ct an• 1 typical 'Ur: panies any ... well, t1: didn't alwa' mildly poor f intermissim c ass and seniors who rank in the I toJ) fifth of their class. IIowever, not .As for t all scholastically eligible students are • 1 quite a fe\\ c\ected. They are further considered 1 ,'\ lent drumr on the basis of personal integrity, 1 power and breadth of interest both inside and 1 Jrummer r outside et:tgineering, adaptability, and l olays musi1 unselfish activity. •• /J ,n the pro~ play many • without sti1 Chean Weekend 1 ! ~oio .~ith r r tl he au tlful. • Speaking I J.:reat. Firs Shonsored B\' war (you './::' J I sonally I s· i \. on P()vert) TITR TTC, R d• ' couldn't be ,..,. J Li I . a to I usual c~t-c; WRUC Radio wHl join other organi- 1 ' J zations on campus this weekend in )!roviding the student body with low cost diversion from the academic pur· smt. ~· Pete Tierney, Pr()motion Director • of WRUC has dubbed the festivities t Economy Weekend and WRUC's par- j t!cipation will be highlighted by a Bad • Guys vs. Skidmore Baseball game on ., Saturday afternoon. The game will take place on Library Field in front of :-.;ott Memorial at 2 p.m. Broadcas1 Live 1 r The event will be broadcast live to 1 Union and Skidmore over WRUC with ; Jeff Hedquist and Pete Tierney doing' 11 the play by play. WRU'C's air flavor ' will take on a distinctly feminine sound before and after the game 1 when Skidmore \good girls\ will han-. 1,. dle the announcing chores. The advent of girl disc-jockeys is an experiment aceoJ.\ding to Program Director Gary Abranms()n. \The sta- 1 tion has received ruany calls from ti Saratoga requesting air time over the I past few months,\ stated Abrahmson, prompting Saturday's distaff lineup. ' I i I Challel'!fle Abrahmson addecj'jthat ~eeting ~he challenge would ,prove mterestmg 1 both 'for the particjl;lants and the lis- I . t teners. ·~ WRUC is publiciring the Saturday night movie in Memorial Chapel as the finale of Sat1.1rda.y's gratis goodies., Admission to the m()vies is one dollar I 1 rer person, the pr<Jceeds being do- nated to the Committee to Rescue Italian Art. the aud1enc :\iason. Although ed a bit st played a n produced a 'Tllen tha became an that the g1 play hard I stick: to on Back tot spicing roc sometimes · playing roc they did 01 of Deeds.\ As I see :hey play t entire grot guitarist D; he is more tainly don'1 by llis shee handedly rr Secondly I know tha denying th ~ ..... , •• ,'Ti ~ t ~ ! ' The free baseball game and the low~ 1 cost n-avies will be supplemented by t an IFC gponsored free beer blast for t fraternity men and their dates Satur- l I ~ day night in the Field House. A glee'' ~ ~ club concert will highlight Friday I ~ evening's entertainment. There is no f t harge for the conc.ert. \ f i ·' t ..... ~' ZELLMER'S NORGE DIAMANTE'S RELAX:! RITZ RESTAURANT LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1 ~59 VANVRANKEN AVE. {e~t Hattie Street! DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs .• - _-- _-- _ _ _ $2.00 12 Lb. ___________ _ 4 Lb. Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1.00 20 Lb. ___________ _ DRYERS 30 Lb. ___________ _ 1 0 Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .1 0 .25 .35 .50 OI'E:'\ - H .\.:\1. to 10 P.:\1. :l-Ion. to Fri.- Sat. 8 A.~I. to 5 1•.:\1. I 0 A,:\ I. to 6 P.~l. Suncla,Ys IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE I ' I Enjoy Our Fine Home II c~::f:r~!~i;nDi~~~n~ i;o~~r Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 Jay Street or FAMILY BILLIARDS 1615 Union Street Special student rates 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Feat1.1ring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Partie~ Try Our lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily except Mondays Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. I I p;::_ ==============:::::::::::::~====~ ~====~~-·-b- --·~~~~~-·-=-:=;::- =·=· =-~~~~[ ' c~'~'~'~\m~~ ~od •al- . THE PEANUT STORE UNI0~ 3 ~~~~TE~~~PAHY t· ~~ ~ WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED aries for qualified Group Counselors or Specialist. 9 Week FEATURING season, camp located in Central Massachusetts. Also some Books· Paperback Class·ICS . . . non-counseling jobs opened at legal minimum wage hourly rates. Higher for especially qualified people. For Further informatio;'l call 1roy 272-6562 after 6 P.M. PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS AND NUTMEATS FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD. 406 STATE STREET Party Favors •• , • Art Supplies ·-. Office Supplies ;===========~:r===~-::::::::.:;;;· -:::;;. ~~~::::====~==:::~~===::~~~:::::::·::::=::- ~~- -=:;-EA~ST~~=IIN=A=VE=NU::::::=:;;E i ,: M::~s::::::.::;Es R ~ 5 ~ ~ ~!: ~ T THE PIP~~~:~G~~~KE SHOP 86 !~~~~~~ve_ j ' at JOHN'S NEWS 155 Clinton St. SPECIALIZING IN MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER I Italian - American Food At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe WE DELIVER 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Mon. thru Sat.: 9:30 AM to 6 PM. Thu.rs. an:l Fri.: 7 to 9 PM ' p I Z Z A ·/ 1 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar SCOTIA, N.Y. PHONE 399-1630 PHONE 3~3-0870 ·------------------~11·------------------------------------~ -------------------------! :__ __________ .. The G tration tects • York c all asp tion an build in AN E

··i ···Concert Review: Blues. Project Warm, But Redding Boils By CLIFFORD SAFANE . Spring we~kend,. An amazing experience. Time t9 b,~ve fun, get. drunk, an? take out your frustra- 1, · . t1ons ;of a~tenqmg_ a ,mens school on your girl. develop- · f\,And 1f this still Isn t ~nough, there's always a is past conc«:;rt to attend on Fnday and Sattuday nights. 1 T~Is year, th~ featun;d artists were the Blues d of the 1 Pro,;~ect anq OtiS Reddmg, not to mention the g, Ill . tYPI,cal 'Union Show\ which invariably accom- l panies any concert here .. As for the Blues Project cil. . : . ~ell, they_ left me with mixed feelings, They them. And a goo(f \nuscian varies his solos. Qh, don't forget ·organist AI Kooper smashii1't his maracas on the · cyrnbols. Such behavior is simply childish and uncalled for. I suppose that Kooper was trying to show us how cool he was. Unfortunately, he failed dismally. GeneraUy, I would say that the Blues Project provided a very enjoyable evening. But some- thing about them bothers me. Except for \Flute Thing,\ their music isn't lasting. You're iin- pressed while watching the ·Project, but once they're gone, you forget their music. I'm not sure if I'd go to see them again. Otis Redding and company are a groovy bunch. I missed most of Jimmy Reed, but what little I did hear of him, I liked. But as for Redding, WOW. Just too much. Although I've heard him in much better voice, he still managed tG swing, swing, swing. And the band behind him was mag- nificent. of their !' in the 1 not are ! · nsidered ~ . d1dn t always Jell (the first half of the concert was 4 !Jlildly _po_or), but when th~y did get going (after mterm1ssion), they were likely to impress you. Drummer Excels As for their strong points the Project has quite a few. For one thing, they have an ex:cel· .lent drummer .. Roy Blumenfeld has plenty of Crossroads for L.A. Colleges ntegrity, and and 1 · .. f)' . ; By Ill l organi· ~; . in · low pur- 'll Director par- by a Bad~l game on 1 arne will in front st live to with doing 11 flavor feminine game will him-J is 1· Program, \The sta- I from 'II · over the lineup. fJ and dr1ve-two qualities which a rock uuu\''\ .. needs. ~ut. unlike most rockers, he plays musrcal:ly. His Jazz background as noted 1n . the prograp1, was quite in evidence. He can pl_ay man~ d1fferent _rhythmic pulses. with and w1thou~ stwks, and still keep the beat. And his solo with ma11ets on \Flute Thing\ was simply beautifuL Speaki!lg of \Flu~e Thing,\ this number was great. First of all, 1t was dedicated .against the War (you know, that \thing\ in Vietnam. Per- sonally I still think that its a part of our War on Poverty), so immediately, I knew that it be all bad. Of course, there were the usual cat-calls, so Danny Kalb eloquently gave the audience a dignified middle finger a la Jackie Mason. Although Andy Kulberg on electric flute start- ed a bit stiffly, he eventually loosened up and played a nice solo. With his electric flute he produced all sorts of effects. Very exciting. ' On the Ball Then that drum solo. And then \Flute Thing\ became an Arabi~n dance. Nice switch. It showed that the group 1s on the ball. They just don't pl~y hard rock. Like jazz, they don;t necessarily sbck to one beat. They keep one's attention. Back to the Project's strong points. I like their spicing rock with jazz. Like having the bass somt;times walk in a steady four instead of always play111g rock figures. And switching tempos like they did on \Flute Thing\ and \Gentle Dreams of Deeds.\ As I see it, the Project's. main weakness is that thef play too loud. This criticism ·applies to the entire group, although the main antagonist is guitarist Danny Kalb. Maybe Mr. Kalb feels that be is more exciting if he pops eardrums. I cer- tainly don't. His solos are robbed of their order -by his sheer lack of sensitivity. He almost single- handedly managed to ruin the concert for me. Secondly, l feel that Kalb is a limited guitarist. I know that he's a wonderful technician· I'm not denying _!hat. But his solos have a sanieness to \College at the Crossroads\ is the title of the latest issue of 'the \Symposium\ and the ornate cop1p~ss ?n the cover immediately sets the mood -md1catmg the complexity of the situation and the many directions that -one may take to confront it. . This \Symposium\ is a special issue presenting an overview of the dilemma of the 'liberal arts college as wel'l as three specific solutions illUs- trated by Hav~rford, Bowdoin, and Wesleyan. The pur.pose; according to the .preface, is not to draw conclusions, but simply to \constrct a frame in which; forthcGming recommendations for the future of Union may be set.\ It is a one man elfoi t by editor Gernard Carmen and he should be c~mgratulat¢d on his handling· oF the depth and difficulty ;Of even this admittedly limited document. 1 · When it co1res down to applying to Union the various innovations discussed, the' major dif- fkultles are concerned, not as much with options, as with resources. To decide the future of an instiution is admirable. but it is only valid when it can be backed up with cold cash, Brilliant ideas and visions disintegrate unless accompanied by both the will and the way. When Hamlet said \Ay there's the rub,\ he might have been think: ing about college finance (of. course. then again, he might not have). . . . ' Fork in Road The first sedtion Qf the Symposium is aptly . titled \The EQd of· the Line or A New Direc- tion?\ On the ¢nd of the line side of the ledger, are the thoghts of respected educators whO' use such epithets. as \no proper place in the scheme of things;\ \disappear ~rom. ~he top quality brackets\ and \obsolete.\ And they're not talking about the cover.ed wagon or the Declaration of Independence, but of old alma ·mater. These peo- ple think that t.he liberal arts college has reached the nadir of its existence. On the other hand, many small co~lege personnel feel that they can t ...... Y ¥ ¥ i 'f f 'f f f v ¥ • 'f 'f ¥ v 'f f ¥ ¥ i i' ¥ 'f ¥ ¥ 'f ¥ ¥ 'f ¥ ¥ v ¥ ~¥ y c T y ¥ y + 9 9 T .; +.+ f ¥ 9 ¥ y y y y f v 'f y .- 1' 'f ; • ~ Jay Jewelry Co. j 'vithstand the changing times and adapt to them, thus heading toward a \new direction.\ That same change is necessary is not the issue; the dLerr,a is the direction of change. To call this a major crisis, as some do, would be an over- statement because colleges have been changing since their inception and will continue to change, as does everything else in the world. A major force of change is the growing obsoles- cence of the self sufficient four year liberal edu- cation. Today, post graduate education is not only advisable but almost downright necesary, So the college must decide if it will become merely a trammg ground for mammoth graduate programs or continue to exist as an ends in itself. Possible Choices Several choices face the liberal arts college. It may abandon its liberal tradition and become a \vest pocket university.'' But since graduate programs are only for the well endowed, another choice is to become a glorified prep school for graduate universities. They also may choose to g1ve up entirely and lose ther identity to a mam- moth state system. On the other hand, the bold may hold fast to their ideals, hoping that there will be enough talented students willing to join them in taking the risk that society w1ll pass them by, These are the choices pre~ented by Carmen, but the sit- uation is not a clear-cut, as he goes on to prove. Abstractly, they seem like the logical options, but a large portion of the Symposium is devoted to showing that three colleges are meeting the challenge with flexible, imaginative soluti~ns. . Union Futvre It seems to me that with the limited resources Union has, emphasis should remain on the un- dergraduate level, and graduate studies should only be institqted in areas such as industrial ad- ministration where all conditions are ripe for it and a specific service is being performed. Union's reputation and heritage is of a small liberal arts college, and any attempt to change 1t, will require such a major change in attitude that it may be beyond our reach. Redding sings of the ghetto - real soul. He really got to me. \Satisfaction\ and the rest of the songs had much drive and excitement And the audience simply thought so too, for they simply went wild. Redding sings from his gut, or should I say about seven inches lower. He really lets you know what's on his mind. He's something, to say the least. A few works about the \Union Show.\ Friday night, I could have sworn that I was in teeny boppersvH!e with aU the mod clothes, long hair. Guitarist Danny Kalb of the Blues Project, kicks off Spring Weekend. -------~~- --- etc Personally, I couldn't give a damn what people wear, but when they try to act hip and ain't, well, that's too much to take. Back to the Village, kids, and practice a bit more. Police Action And Saturday, the Four Tops revisited. People dancing in the aisles and onstage, with the police having to restrain at least two guys a number of times. I know that the concert was moving. I was clapping, swaying, and cheering. But man, if you want to use so much energy or enjoy- be.; ing in the limelight, how about doing soipetlting. useful? You know, there's a WAR going on with people being killed. Well, let's forget that. It's controversial. I know, let's not get involved. But that's the story of Union College as well as 3 the ' the lis-fl 315 STATE STREET ~ ~ ~ . 1he role of the liberal ar.ts college is to pro- vide what the large graduate school can't. An original and. personally oriented undergraduate program, interdisciplinary studies, independant t·esearch, an(i close contact between students and facu:ty. Graduate programs should be left to the giants who can handle them. much of this country. · Satprday as s goodies . ., dollar , being do· o Rescue ' tbe low \'1· ' by , blast for 1 Satur- A gleefl Friday · is no Ave. ER A ::biamoncL ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for You,r Savingi. Elimina~e Importer and Wholesaler. the ~ 1 ~' ~ . . . . , Arnold Fisher ·so ~I •• ~ ............... ·~ ........... ....t.........& ......................... ~..LA..~ .......................... ~ .............. ~~ ... ~·.A.· .............. .£. ..... ..A. ................... .... A. .... # I • ·~ •• ·~ ·~ .................. ~~ .................... < . The General Services Adminis- tration is recruiting for Archi· tects and Engineers in New York City and Philadelphia in all aspects of design; construc- tion and management of Federal buildings. Positions start .at i \ ·ARCHITECTS and 1 . ·ENGINEERS· * .. ·co:'N'STRUCTI OI'f *.·ELECTRICAL * MECHANICAL GS-5 ($6327 per annum) or GS-7 ($7729 per annum) $7 !J 729 with provision for accelerated promotions to GS-11 ($10,4-81 per annum) $10,481 Adclitional details and facts about Gen- eral Services Administration may be obtained at your Placement Offic.e. Send resume to Personnel Officer, General Services Administration, 30 Church St., New York, N. Y. 10007 or call Area Code 212-2.64-8295 to arrange for per- .- sonal interview. AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ., ••••••••• +$ ............................................ -..., • .. ~ ---------------- ~-- --------~~- .. fly all you want on the newest swingingest fare in the air! Mohawk's{'W:e·ekends Unlimited!\ Fly anywhere Mohawk flies. Be a gypsy! Visit a host of Mohawk's seventy cities in 10 states-all in one weekend. Remember, Mohawk's new swingin' fare is good not only roundtrip but on as many flights over the weekend as you canbook. ~ ,.,- 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. pick your cities! pick a weekend! here's how to take off: Pick your weekend.* Fare appliE)s from 6 a.m. Saturday to 6 p.m. Sunday. Phone Mohawk reservations or see your travel agent. Ask for positive space reservations on the scheduled flights of your choice. (Not including Toronto.) All for $25 a person plus federal tax. Reservations rriust be made on the· Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday pre- ceding your departure and the first leg of your journey must begin on Saturday. Check the cities served by Mohawk from your city and TAKE OFF! New York City Boston Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Pittsburgh I Cleveland Detroit Niagara Falls Erie Buffalo Ulica Glens Falls Rutland Burlihglon Plattsburgh Massena Watertown Ogdensburg West-chester Lake Placid Rochester Jamestown Olean Elmira Corning Ithaca Binghamton Poughkeepsie Hartford Worcester Schenecladj Albany \Good any weekend ot the year except Easter: 8fitoHAWK \WEEKENDS UIUMIUD I\ Mohawk's 227 Vaftta prop Jet, Built'by f'auc.htld H,lrer Mohawk's One-Eleven Fan Jet, Built by·Br1t1s.h Airc;rart Corporation ..

1967 Thursday, May 18, 1967 ers Concert Revievv: Blues Project W artn, But ., lc By CLIFF()RD SAFANE them. And a good muscian varies his solos. .\ pressed while watching the Project, hut once they're gone, you £orget their music. I'm not sure if I'd go to see them again. Pi t.' develop- i is past of the •\ president · juniors •1 of their in the not are '' integrity, and and ,, 1 f t Shpringf weeketndd. Akn amdazing experience. Time 1 ? ave un, ge . ··run , an· take out yotu frustra· ~\ ti()TIS pf a~ten~utg. a, men's school on your girl. : . And .,f this still 1sn t !'lnough, there's aiways a I conc~rt to attend on Fnday am! Saturday nights. 'T~1s year, th~ featu.re,d artists were the Blues I Pro,Ject an~ Otis Redclmg, not to mention the J typt.cal 'Umon Show\ which invariabl:y accom- panies any concert here .. As for the Blues Project . . : . ~ell, they_ left me With mixed feeHngs. They dt~n t always Jell (the first half of the concert was f !lltldly .Po.or), but when th~y did get going (after I mternussiOn), they were likely to impress you. I Drummer Exce'ls ~s for the~ strong points, the Pr()ject has h quite a few. l! or one thing, they have an excel- ' , lent drummer.. Roy Blumenfeld has plenty of Oh, don't forget organist AI Kooper smashin·~ his maracas on the cymbols. Sttch behavior is simply childish alild uncalled fer. I suppose that Kooper was trying t0 show us ho'1 cool he was. Unfortu.nately, he faHed dismaHy. Generally, I would say that the Blues Project provided a very enjoyable evening. But some· thing about them bothers me. ExceiJt for \Flute Thing,\ their mu.sic isn't lasting. You're im· Symposium Review: Otis Redding and company are a groovy bunch. I missed most of Jimmy Reed, but what little I did hear of him., I liked. But as for Redding, WOW. Just too much. Although I've heard him iR much better voice, he still managed to swing, swing, swing. And the band behind him was mag. li!ificent. Crossroads for L.A. Colleges By AL\:\' ZIEGLER I power and dnve~two qualities which a Fock 1 Jrummer ,needs. ~ut. unlike most rockers, he \College ::tt the Crossroads\ is the title of the withstand the changing times and adapt to them, 1 plays musically. H1s Jazz background as noted latest issue of the '\Symposium\ and the ornate thus heading towa·rd a \new direction.\ 1 J .n the progra!ll, was quite in evidenc~. He can ~o~~p~ss !Jll the cover immediately sets the mood That san:c change is necessary is not the issue; 1 Pl.ay man~ different _rhythmic pulses with and -·m~IIcatmg the complexity of the situation and the dLcn.a is the direction of change. To call 1 wtthou~ sticks, and stll:l keep the beat. And his ~he many directions that oRe may take to confnmt this a major crisis, as some do, would be an over· j ~olo w1th mallets on \Flute Thing'' was simply tt. staternent heca11se colleges have been changing ., i's heautiful. This \Symposium\ is a special issue, presenting s1ncc their inception and will continue to change, S~eaki!l'g of \Flute Thi111g,\ this number was an overview of the dilemma of the liberal arts u., does ever)thing else in the world. 1 great. Fust of an, it was dedicated against the eollege as well as three specific solutions illus· A major force of change is the growing obsoles- ;'\1 I War (you know, that \thing\ in Vietnam. Per- LI'ated by HaYerford, Bowdoin, and Wesleyan. ccnce of the seH sufficient four vear liberal edu· J I sonally I stitll think that its a part of our War The purpose, according to the preface, is not cation. Today, post graduate education is not only • 1 • on Poverty), so immediately I knew that it · d bl \ t 1 t d · ht s th couldn't be all bad. Of co· urs'e, there were the to draw conclustons, bu.t simply to \constrct a a vtsa .e 11U amos ownng · necesary .. o e 1' fratl'e 1'n w\I'ch forth.com1'ng recommendat· f college must decide if it will become mere!\ a , 11 usual cat-calls, so Danny Kalb eloquently gave · · II · ·' · · · · · · · · wns or t d r tl d t ~ the audience a dignified middle finger a la Jackt'e the future of Union may be set.\ It is a one man rammg groun or mammo 1 gra· ua e programs ' effm t by editor Gernard Carmen and he should or continue to exist as an ends in itself. I ;;,ason. b p 'bl Ch . organi- 1 ' in with low pur· Director festivities par- ,. by a Bad• game on will in front 1; .Although Andy Kulberg on electric flute start- e congratulated on his handling of the depth ossr e 01ces I ed a bit st~ffly, he eve.ntuaqy loosened up and and difficulty of even this admittedly limited Several choices face the liberal arts col.lege. 1 played a mce solo. w 1 th hls electric f:l.ute, he doc:un:ent. lt may abandon its liberal tradition and become I produced all s:>rts of ell'ects. Very exciting. \Vhen it COll'es down to applying to Union the u \vest pocket university.'' But since graduate 1 On the Ball nrious innovations discussed, tlte' major dif- programs are only for the well endowed, another 'Th th t d 1 fitulties are concerned, not as much with options, dto1ce is to become a glorified prep school for l en a ru.m so 0 · Anq then \Flute Thing\ as with resources. To decide the :future of an graduate universities. They also may choose to I became an Arabl~n dance. Ntce switch. It showed instiution is admirable. but it is only valid when g,ve up entirely and lose ther identity to a mam- that the group IS. on .the ball. They just don't it can be backed up with cold cash. Brilliant n:oth state system . ·, Pl.ay hard rock. L1ke Jazz, they don't necessarily · 1 d · · d' · t g t 1 · d On the other hand, the bold nla'' hol·d fast to st1ck: to one beat. They keep one's attention. l( eas an VISions 1s1n e ra e un ess accompame \ !J!lck to the Pt:ojec~'s strong points. r like their by both the will and the way. When Hamlet said, their ideals, hoping that there will be enough spicing rock with .Jazz. Like having the bass \Ay there's the rub,\ he might have been think- talented students willing to join them in taking so.111-;:times walk in a steady four instead of always ing about college finance (of course then again the nsk that society will pass them by. These ', I:J playing rock figures. And switching tempos like he might not have). ' ate the choices presented by Carmen, but the sit- they did on \Flute Thing\ and \Gentle Dreams Fork in Road uatwn is not a clear-cut, as he goes on to prove. live to 1 of Deeds.\ The first seCtion of the Symposium is aptly Abstractly, they seem like the logical options, RUC with ' As I see it, the Project's main weakness is that titled \The End of the Line or A New Direc- but a large portion of the Symposium is devoted ney doing,, /d !her play too loud. This criticism applies to the tion?' · On the end of the line side of the ledger, to showing that three colleges are meeting the air flavor • en tire group, although the main antagonist is are the thoghts of respected educators who use challenge with flexible, imaginative solutions. feminine guitarist Danny Kalb. Maybe Mr. Kalb feels that such epithets as \no proper place in the scheme Union Future game he is more exciting if he pops eardrums. I cer- of things,\ \disappear from th..e top quality It seems to me that with the limited resources will han-. ('l tainly don't. His solos are robbed of their order brackets\ and \obsolete.\ And the:y're not talking t:nion has, emphasis should remain on the un· . by h.is sheer lack of sensitivity. He almost single- about the covered wagon or the Declaration of dergraduate level, and graduate studies should handedly managed to ruin the concert for me. Independence, but of old alma mater. These peo- only be instituted in areas such as industrial ad· Secondly, I feel that Kalb is a limited guitarist. ple think that the liberal arts college has reached ministration where all conditions are ripe for jockeys is Program I lm~w that he's a wonderful technician; I'm not the nadir of its existence. On the other hand it and a specific service is being performed. 1 J denymg that. But his solos have a sameness to many small college personnel feel that they ca~ l!nion's reputation and heritage is of a small I , ..... , ,,,,,.,,,·,.,;·.;~·;,·,-,, .. ,,.,,-.;:,., ... ,,,, ... T'Y~~~.:;; .. ,,;-;-;-;,~-;--,-,;-,,,,,,,.,llber~l arts .college, and a~y attempt_to ch.ange ~ · ~ 1t, will require such a major change In attitude t 1 i that it may be beyond our reach. 1 i• ~ J J I c 0 •' 'lhe role of the liberal arts college is to pro· ~ a y e w e r y ~ vide what the large graduate school can't. An ! • original and personally oriented undergraduate the . • : ptogram, interdisciplinary studies, independant \The sta- 1 from over the brahmson, lineup. 1 1 I\esearch and close contact between students and the lis-! 't ~ 3 15 STATE STREET 1 facuJy. Graduate programs should be left to the Saturday Chapel as goodies. , one dollar being do- Rescue the low' by Purchased in Belgium and Imported the ~ ; giants who can handle them. l: . l; I $ t Redding Boils Redding sings of the ghetto - real soul. He really got to me. ''Satisfaction\ and the rest of the songs had much drive am! excitement And the audience simply thought so too. for they simply went wild. Redding sing~ from his gut, or should I say about seven inches lo\\'el'. He really lets you know what's on his mimi. He's something, !0 say the least. A few works about the \Union Show.\ Friday night, I could have swern that I was in teeny boppersviilP with aH the mod clothes, long ha·ir. Guilarisl Danny Kalb of the Blues Project, kicks ')ff Spring Weekend. etc Personally, I couldn't give a damn what p~ople wear, but when they try to act hip and am't, well, that's too much to take. Bade to the> VillagE.', kids, and practice a hit mor<' . Police Action Atld Saturday, the Four Tops revisited. People dancing in the aisles and onstage, with the police having to restrain at !C<ast two guys a number of times. I know that the C()ncert was moving. I was clapping, swaying, and cheering. But man, if you want to use so 111uch energy or enjoy be- ing in the limelight, how about doing .something useful? You know, there's a WAR going on with people being killed. Well, let's forget that. It's controversial. I know, let's not get involved. But that's the story of Union College as wel1 as much of this country. • blast for Satur- l I A glee~ I ~ ht Friday 1 is no __._.._._..,, ! t' ·' for Your Savings. Eliminate Importer and Wholesaler. SENIORS 1 .j I • • ~ I fly all you want on the newest, swingingest fare in the air! A I. '\ .} II • The General Services Adminis- tration is recruiting for Archi- tects and Engineers in New York City and Philadelphia in all aspects of design, construe· tion and management of Federal buildings. $6,387 Positions start at ARCHITECTS and ENGINEERS CONSTRUCTION * ELECTRICAL * MECHANICAL GS-5 ($63S7 per annum) or GS-7 ($7729 per annum) $7' 729 with provision for accelerated promotions to GS-11 ($10,481 per annum) $10,481 Additional details and facts about Gen- eral Services Administration may be obtained at your Placement Office. Send resume to Personnel Officer, General Services Administration, 30 Church St., New York, N. Y. 10007 or call Area Code 212-264-8295 to arrange for P<!: sonal interview. AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ~• •• •• •o-O+ •o •• ~• 4$• •• •• •(~ •• Cit •• c:-• • • • • <~• ~• ~ <HI>-~, Mohawk's \Week.ends Unlimited!\ Fly anywhere Mohawk flies. Be a gypsy! Visit a host of Mohawk's seventy cities in 10 states-all in one weekend. Remember, Mohawk's new swingin' fare is good not only roundtrip but on as many flights over the weekend as you canbook. ~ 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. pick your cities! pick a weekend! here's how to take off: Pick your weekend.* Fareappliesfrorn 6 a.m. Saturday to 6 p.m. Sunday. Phone Mohawk reservations or see your travel agent. Ask for positive space reservations on the scheduled flights of your choice. (Not including Toronto.) All for $25 a person plus fed era I tax. Reservations must be made on the Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday pre- ceding your departure and the iirst leg of your journey must begin on Saturday. Check the cities served by Mohawk from your city and TAKE OFF! New York City Boston Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Pittsburgh Cleveland Detroit Niagara Falls Erie Buffalo Utica Glens falls Rutland Burlington Plattsburgh Mohawk'~ 227 Vrs1a prop Jet, Bmll bv Farrthrhf Holler Massena Watertown Ogdensburg Westchester Lake Placid Rochester Jamestown Olean Elmtra Corning Ithaca Bmghamton Poughkeepsie Hartford Worcester Schenectady Albany \Good any weekend of the year except Easter Mohawk''i One Eleven fan JPl. Bodt h'l Br·l•sh A•rc.rafl Cnrporat'O'I 3

4 'fhursday, MC.y '1;81~·4-961' . ~ even in its purest, 1967 civil-rights form, is an exclusive ideal. · Promoting friendship a!id real brotherhoo~ cannot be done in groups which atrictly Umit their members and by so doing, limit their inte~actions with the rest of socet:v. · Letters to the Editor ·· Fraternjties will always profess. ideals of brotherhood, and. Philo's Criticized · of academic and community interest; but they will always; be cliques that enjoy noisy parties on odd-weekeads. . To the Editor: We urge the administration to take steps this summer . · One. of the lesser known ac- 1-~uU.li::.h~d 'l'ltut-.~hlu)'S during the scnou1 year by the St·udent Body of t:'nlon Colle~e. Schenectady. :-;. Y. ;-:atlonal A.dvertlsln~ nev1·esentatlve: Xatlonal A.d-v l..'l'tising Set·vlce, Inc.• Colleg~ Pul>liahers Hepresentaun•. 4:!0 lludl· son Ave., N. Y. C. ~dltortal Ol'fh.:~. Old Uym. l'ntut• t ·ui lege. Publication 0 r.fh·e. ~-it:llenL~4JUHIY Printinc; Con111any, UO:! lJt'C.lt!dWH)I. Entered In the SdlClH'l'lULiY 1 1 usl Of· flee as ~econU Clast~ ~l•t 11 :4uh:·wription 1 :ie a l'UPY: $:~ n· yPat· t.leliYet:t:-d anywhet'P tn tlu~ l nltPd s~nlt.·!l. ;;J<;:SIOR DO.\Ril Ed .llll·~ln·t~ll ivl · . n.usinl\s~ Jlanuger JOSF.P!( A. ~1·.\:\:-;', JH. ·Gs ............. 37~-n;;; JOEL ltt:J.IE;.IZAJJL. '6~ ......................... :l77·D43U . toward \phasing out\ fraternities. tiv~ties on the Union CJ!lege campus is the Phi.omatheans, that. honorable debating soctety. More Progress · It ls this group that has b.;en responsible tor represent.ng President Martin's S(lC<>nd year at Union has not. only Union at various debatlng c<:on- been concerned with seeking excellence in academic affairs, tests within the Northeast area. . , . .However, durmg the course of hut has be.en ~pen~ m t;~.nng to cre~te a commumty atmE>- the; last year the radius of the sphere wh1ch lS stnnulabng aJ+d enJoyable to students. Phtlomathean sphere of influ- Tne inauguration of tne coilege's largest and m<>st 'ence. has been mCJ;easmg geo.- ambitious development program last fall was a which metncally, at great cost to the seems to be directe. d at more than <1l·m.ply· . . student tax fund. For ex;ample, .., last April three debators flew Progress · present conditions of the physical plant; the cons'ide~rabl;~~J to New Orleans to represent our ~1gures earmarked for increasing faculty salaries and funcl- school at a contest which was mg more student scholarships will proV:ide the college with formed by the initiative of our Concordiensis lauds the All-College Council for its· t t · - th fi t a1· f u1 own delegates. Of course the action last night. The adoption of more liberal social rules 1 s mos precwus possessions: ·· e nes qu Ity ac ty New Orleans' public transporta- imlicate:o not only that the ACC is beginning to realize its , and students. An encouraging step forward for this Pll()- twn system was not. good enough great ·.·po·tentt\al but aloo that the adm.·inistra!io_n is tru.ly gram was tne recent government grant of nearly $1.5 for our triple threat, so instead .., . millions. they rented a car for the week- willing to grant s~udents the freedom that tne1r rnature, T le co ·1 • · f f b ·ld\ 1 th · ... \... end. I only hope they were stabte and responsible actions have earned. · 1 . · mp e.wn ° our 11 ew ·· Ul mgs, Pus e lUSI.lU.- rested enough to ·debate the bar- ill lation o.f a modern heating plant,. could mark the 196()...6'7 tender over their checks. F1'nal The administration has made it clear that it is w - a d th t d · ca enu~ y~ar a~ ·, e ~os . pro uctlVe year for building ·cost to the student body- ing to trust Union students more than it ever has before; completion m Umon s h~st<>ry. The fact that two fratern· .$466.87. it is presently .showing students more trust than many ity Houses and the old steam plant were rared so far this' other institutions enjoy. We hope this tru&t is not betrayed. year will, if anything, score ttiis year as a time of beauti- Last year the l'hilomatheans C il d spo.psored a h1ghl school mv1ta- We are furthermore pleased that the · ounc vote to tication. · . t\<~naJ. debatmg cpntest and by define the goals and direction of community living at Union A further increase -in the size of the incoming fresh~ chis effort ra1sed; $835. Very by accepting Dean Lockwood's statement. This statement man class is a nece~sary step,. but one which will lead t.Q admirab.e. One ijlight have ex- is a thoughtful and considerate. approach to the problems ove~crowding ~gain ill per.haps two. years. The lack of ~lj. f~c~~r!~iss 0 ~~n~f t:hi~e Y~:;.~ of \resid€ntial life.\ The adoption of such a policy by the eqmtable housmg arrange:ment, which would allow .certam ~J!ip~n~es in an eJfo:rt to lower c-ollege community serves -to clear the air of vague ideas ~tudent~ the p;ivilege of living off-camp.us. is a ne.cessary . che Debatmg Society's drain on about this 1mportant asr:eet of s•tudent life. mnovatlon. Whi~h should be put into permanent effect to student tax tunds: But no. Th1s We feel, however, that students and faculty shoW.d .::a~e the situation. No matter how attractive on·campi.JS year's budget w~s $150 higher give serious thought to the areas within this philosophy livmg may bec?me, there will be students who desire tlte than last year! which deal with personal morality. In this portion of hum off-~a:t:?pus environment. To deny this point is to be 'llil~ Now faced witQ. $835 in their man activities, the mores of society do not necessarily r.::ahs!Ic; and to ~eny these people the right to live as the:y . tr€la$ury (raised ·by use of the P rovide for the individual's welfare. The rights a:n. d wei- WISh lS to be unJust. ~chool name) thE} officers have b t 1 b f d The Comp d t u · · \tin d cJccided to send three delegates fare of each community mem er may no a ways ' e oun -e · program a · · mon 18 an exc1: g epar- (themselves) to : debate for a along pathways leading to the group's welfare. Party ture from traditional education. The mixed attitudes to- week in Californi~, Incidentally weekends, for example, are presented for the \social well- ward _the progr~m are _!1 result, in part, of the problems one of our three dedicated dele: beiRO'\ of the community. But although a major portion ex~enen~ed durmg the nrst year of its existence. Changes gates, Robert ~tolzberg, has of the campus enjoys these festivities, there are usually· wh1ch Will be made next Se:ptember will hopefully remove bragged around '.campus about students and administrators-at least-who do not. some 9f the kinks eucountered this year. It is too soon to his free Californ{a vacation. Blighted Brotherhood The case for the fraternities is not so rosy as our proponents fer \brotherhood\ would have us believe. In pointing out the benefits and advantages of the system, the advocates have, as usual, omitted the very points about fraternities which are most important. No sense of community can exist among sixteen self- interested cliques and a large, dii?organized group. The fraternities do much more than split the campus in half; I'ather, they make such a clear division impossible. Fra- ternities are interested primarily in the welfare of their own group. One is substituting fraternity loyalty for col- lege loyalty. One cannot deny that most fraternity men eonside:r themselves house members first, Union College students perhaps second. How can we expect a sense of community and community co-operation from splinters which have difficulties remaining solvent from year to year? Even more basic than the above consideration is the pass a fair judgment on .ce>mp-eds; we must remember that Perl\aps the reason that the they are a new and desirable breed among the traditional flCtivit~es of the tionorable Phil- subjects. · omateans are. kno\\-n to so few An el?-coura~ing sign from the a;dm_inbjtration this year· ~s that the office:11s, despite Mr: has been Its atbtude toward student life. The sanction of ~J~~b;r~~c~~t~heir best to keep the new social rules will almost equalize tlle level of social freedom between frate~nity and ~ndependents. Also, the Robert A, Rosenthal '67 college has shown a des1re t() obtam student opinion before making some administrative decisions; students now have .... In Defense more of an opportunity than ever before to determine what kind of college they w:ant. But, as we might expect the overwhelming force of inertia insures that the majority of students here maintain their roles as literate vegetables. To the Editor: Showdown Purin~ this past week a letter to t!J.r e(litor of t ·. e Concordien· sis from Mr. Ro ert Rosenthal ha_s .qome to our attention. His OJ:~gtual letter. cqntained many misufidfrstandmgs and misrep- resenta ions of tije actual facts some Of which 'he agreed t~ change after he had been in- foiJlred that he had made wild an.~ falacious assqrtions. Despite th~p .r,ct, the content and tone of )us present letter is still such th~t tf!,e members of the Philo- m4thejm Debating Society feel that an answer is· in order. ' Ph:lomath:cans has bee:il: .. '~geo- ,. n,~::trica~ly increasing\ ti.:i;ing the current year, it ·lias · at no great ·expense to the. nt tax fund. Rather, it i!l ·. ute -.. to the society that ·it ·ha ' ; · een able to enhance its r~pu~~tion while working religiously with- in its budget. · : . M·r. Rosenthal alludes to the Ph,,pn:atheans' trip to New Or- leans an~ its debate at TUlane. His letter implies that We de- ) bated only at Tulane and then ·rented a <;ar for the purpose ·Of drinking and joyriding at the expense of the student- body. 1 Rather, we had two successful audience participation debates, one with Tulane and one with Loyola, A car was rented be- cause .rublic transportation was .. inapplicable to the particular debating schedules, and the cost of cabs, the only other possible means of transportation, wo,uld -. have .proven too great. The figure of $466.87,. so gleefully quoted by Mr. Rosenthal, is a distortion of reality, as a more t careful examination of all the · facts would have shown. ·This ~ump sum was. used to finance not only the New Orleans trip, :but three other activities. . · \ Mr. Rosenthal refers to our h~gh school debate tournament. The money earned })y this ac- -. tivity has been put into a con- tingency f\md which is being 11sed and will be used in the future to defray . Philomath(lan • expenses. It is our hope that these funds in conjunction with our yearly budget from the Student Tax Committee will serve· to continue to increase t the rapg.e of the society's, ac- tivities. By the way, we are. not ll seG:ret so~iety and membership is open to any Union student, , ~ven Mr. Rosenthal. Yes, the Philomathea.ns are sending a team to California next week to carry Union's banner against Stanford, San Diego, Fresno, and Berkeley in aud1ence debates. Contrary to what Mr. ltosen- thal says, the officers are not sending tp.emselves, but are sending the team with the best chance of success which hap- · pen& to include only one of the team's· four officers. We wculd like to take this opportunity to deny the rumor that the Philomathean Society is planning an Ea11tern Euro- pean tour · next fall to debate the Bulgarian and Rumanian • national te!ams. Sincerely, :prank Mauro, for the fhilomathean Debat- tng Society. Pedan~ic Pageantry To the Editor: fact tha.t the fraternity system is unfair to human beings. The system lends itself to an uneven and erratic level of social activity. Although the lot of independents h.as im- proved since last year, the existence of fraternities pre- cludes equality. Furthermore, as exclusive groups, fratern- ities pick and choose their members. \Fratmen if not superior by implication, are certainly \different\ from the \turkeys.'· Inevitably, this exclusive element must cause grief to those who are rejected by the system. .Such a type of social selectivity implies more than a natural need to live and work with friends: it implies pathology- insecurity and false feelings of superiority, among other 'Ihis campus is not big enough for cars, trees, gr~ ~nd peop~e: C~rs and grass have been vieing for the dom.,. ~nant position m the last few years. Concordiensis is r<Jot .. mg for the grass. · . We presently own an a~tra.ctive campus with a par-k~ mg problem. Th~ ~ampns 1s not so large that students~ faculty and ad~stra~o~s could not walk from large; nearby lots to their bmld1ngs. We feel that the campus should be closed to all traffic ex:cept delivery vehicles or, at tl:e very least, that pa.rking lots: wit;l1in the campus grounds be limited to large areas such as the West, R.ie!h., mond and the ne:w dormitory lots. ~ The parking situation is ridiculously tight as thin~ now stand. The ~allege would stand to gain both a betten sense of. community and a more beautiful campus if it bllllS· There w~re people who dem- r irlJt. the Philpmatheans are onstrated ; against the war in no. a llittle-kn()wn group, a fact Vietnam <.Vhile the )lbTC was w:llw~ even the most cursory holding a ceremony ari~f parade. gl~ncq at the size of the audi- Many people were disllw-bed by en{!e that witnessed Union's de- the demonstrators an~ repre- bate last weekend with Hamil- manded th~m for disrupting the ton would h~ve sliown. Not only ceremonies. What kind,oof world l •a S d are the Phllomatheans a well is this, Sally? r can•t1 under- cars and promotes grass. things. Never to buck progress, fraternities have become won- derfully tolerant during the last few years. Certainly, some fraternities do open their doors to an· races and creeds. But many more do not: they maintain even today written or tacit rules which exclude certain minority groups. Further~ more, the entire fraternity system can boast of a history which followed this line of bigoted non-thinking.~ One aspect of fraternity pathology, a prevalent one at that, is the approach to \good fellowship\ and \brother- hood\ which assumes as a matter of course that hazing and harrassing during the pledge period and initiation are d€sirable. Paddling is forbidden, but what of the other \cute\ activities which indicate nothing but disrespect for human beings? A person can either respect other humans or not; one does not respect a human part of the time and ignore his rights at other times. Activities which J>ledges endure indicate that fraternity men feel that human re- spect ean be turned off and on like a faucet. One wonders what motivates such a sick standard for behavior 1 Enjoy- ment gained at the expense of others' suffering smacks of sadism. ncons \' e'I/8/Y t·A tu en t·~ known group on the Union cam- stand it when people b~come · · I> · I &+ · e.:.- · · · ~ pus, but their name is known ~ore aroused over the disrup- 1 and respected in debating cir- twn of pagentry, than over the . C::>ncordiensis hopes that the boorish activities of s.ome cles throughout tne East. While brutual death of a thOusand peo· Umon students last weekend will not be repeated in t]le we are proud to admit that the rle in Vietnam. f~tt~.rc. Screaming dr~la; (the equivalent of oral exliib,i- • · \sphere of influence\ of the Kenneth Kobland '68 boms~s), students dnvmg cars or motorcycles on la.ns .r=t===~~~~~~~=====~~~~~~~~ and Sidewalks, a proliferation of intoxicated students vii>-· lations of the open-container rule, abusive remarks hurled a~ _S_unday churchgqers and several other uncivilized ac .. · bv1bes characterized the last party weekend. Such bla-. tant disrespect for human rights and college rules lends; a fine aspect to the image of mature Union \men.\ . FUGAZY TRAVEL BUREAU extends its congratul<l- tions to the Class of 1 967 and welcomes the incom- ing Senior Class. ~OLLEGE STUDENTS SUMMER WORt< . Albany br~nch of International Corporation has openings· £or ~0-13 week· summer employment. Sale~ promotional work requires neat ~ppearance and ipterest in meeting and talking. to people. Plenty of time for swimming, bpating, and golf. FIFT,EEN $1000 . SCHOLA~$~lPS ';WEEK VACATI . IN HA~~~~\~ ~ast year'~ students $13~.00 w~~~Iy. For personal interview aPJ>Ofitlbrtent 434-71'71 9 ...... , •• ..., The problem of fraternity interests vs. community in,. terests can be solved in one of two ways: 1) de-emphasis of the system through increash'lg the desirability of inde- pendent life, i.e., a student union or 2) abolishing fraterni- ties outright and using the houses for residence units. In both cas€s, the community sense would be enhanced by .. allowing freshmen and upperclassmen to live together.. . Sine€ the student union will not be available for some: time, the second course seems more reasonable. FUGAZY TRAVEl BUREAU, INC. PHILLIPS BLDG. 434 STATE ST. ' ~ .~ ' .. ' ·' .. . ~75 No.tt Street ; Sc~enectady, N~- '(. ,. FR 7~0510 ~ If every fraternity on campus were as publdc-conscious as Delta Chi, the system would be vastly improved. But the good works of one house, or of a· few individuals in many houses, do not exonerate the system. The fraternal ideal, 374~.4111 i :·< I \ ' • FOUNTAIN SERVICE {r • ... • • • \\ •. • •I '· '\. .a· a· \' 111 • ... .: ;·;\ : f- ,' -~ SATURO 2:00-! ( 1 ( F A s c p E E E I f I Let the Down I A uniq I' ' J.· ,( I .. 'I: Sin F

4 Thursday, May U, cl967 \ even in its purest, 1967 civil-rights form, is an exclusive ideal. P1·on.1oting friendship and real brotherhood cannot be done in groups wh.ich strictly limit their members and by so doing, limit their interactions with the rest of socety. F'raternities will always profess ideals of brotherhood, and of academic and community interest; but they will always be diques that enjoy noisy parties on odd-weekelads. Letters to the Editor Phihl~S Criticized To the Editor: }'IJI·I ;-.;b .. d \I\I.Ul~·l .. .)S d,l('.tl..; tht.• SL'I\Iht~ Yt'd.l l•v tht) :-:·u·l•·n'. H11dy nt' rniun l'ti)Jq.;t•, :-;, l1•'1l+'• Li•l). ~ Y ~<l.tllHHll Atl\'t'l'll:-.•1..: H•·pJt·-.l.:ll'.t~:\• ;'\at:pn,tl J.:Jit\l!\lil] lliil~t.·, Uh} l.i)IU I 1111111 l 1d lt~~t\'. Pul,ltL'allll/1 Ul 1 1o t•, :\\>< lu'IH'llad) J·'11r111ll;.;' l't!llll'all~·. :.11..: HllloHIWH~ I :r1: t' 1 ,.,J 111 1 t ~'' z-:~ llt'llt'l 1 ,, .1.' l'~t~:\>l lJ 1 We urge the administration to take steps this summer tovmrd \pl:J.asing out\ fraternities. More Progress lrh.. L'ollfl~t' sun .-\\1•. ~ Y ,. President Martin's second year at Union has not only :.'';',·,- •. ::~;;\·~: .. > 1 ,;·, •. ·:. • .. ,., '' \ .~:.·:'.', been concerned with seeking excellence in academic affairs, but has been spent in trying to create a community atmo- sphere which is stimulati:ng and enjoyable to students. ..... · .... ,l1 ,~1: l 'll \ \I \)...' ,I< •J::I. It I I :l;,,z \JI I. li: .; .. ··:- !I·.: ,;; ',II :n 1 ,,, 1 ,;:,~ ~·,··,,', :~::; 'l'ne iaauguration of t1:e college's largest and most ambitious development program last fall was a step which seems to be directed at more than simply ameliorating present conditions of tne physical plant; the considerable 1tgures earmarked for increasing faculty salaries and fund- ing more student scholarships \-\ill provide the college with 1ts most precious possessions: the finest quality facu1ty and studeHls. An encouraging step forward for this pro- ~:rram was t!.e recent government grant of nearly $1.5 .nillions. Progress Concordiensis lauds the AU-College Council for its action last night. The adoption o~ mor~ li~eral socia~ ru~es indicate3 not onlv that the ACC IS begmnmg to realize 1ts great potential. but alsw that the admi~istra~io_n is truly \':illin:; tc grunt s:udents the freedom t:;at b1e1r mature, stabh' ;md responsible actions have earned. The administration has made it clear that it is will- ing to trust Union students more than it ever has before; it is presently showing students more trust than many other institutions enjoy. We hope this trust is not betrayed. We are furthermore pleased that the Council voted to define the goals and direction of community living at Union bv acl'cpting Dean Lockwood's statement. This statement is a thoughtful and considerate approach to the problems d ··residential life.\ The adoption of such a policy by the colle o-e community serves· to clear the air of vague ideas h • . about this important asrect of student hfe. \\re fet:l, however, that students and faculty should give serious thought to the areas within this philosophy which deal with personal morality. In this portion of hu- man arLvitics, the mores of society do not necessarily p1·ovide tor the individual's welfare. The rights and wel- fare of each community member may not always be found along pathways leading to the group's welfare. Party weekends, fer example, are presented for the \social well- being\ of the community. But although a major portion of tht· campus enjoys these festivities, there are usually students and administrators-at least-who do not. . 'I'!1e compk~ion of f?ur new buildings, plus the instal- latiOn o_f a modern heatmg plant, could mark the 1966-67 academic year as the most productive year for building completion in Union's history. The fact that two fratern- ity 11ouses and tne old steam plant were razed so far this year will, if anything, score t.nis year as a time of beauti- tication. A fllrther increase in the size of the incoming fresh- man class is a necessary step, but one which will lead to overcrowding again in perhaps two years. Th.e lack of an equitable 1tmtsing arrangement, which would allow certain ~tudent.:; the P;rivilege of living off-campus, is a necessary mnovatwn which should be put into pennanent effect to e_a~e the situation. No mat~er how attractive on-campus llvmg may become, there wtll be students who desire the off-~a~pus environment. To deny this point is to be un· reahstlc: and to deny tnese people the right to live as they wisi1 is to be unjust. The Comp-ed program at Union is an exciting depar- ture from traditional education. The mixed attitudes to- ward _the program are a result, in part, of the problems ex12enen~ed during the first year of its existence. Changes which -..ytll be _made next Septem~er wiU hopefully remove some of t11e kmks encountered th1s year. It is too soon to pass a fair judgment on com p-eds; we must remember that Blighted Brotherhood ~~~3e~[; a new and desirable breed among the traditional , _ . . . . An encouraging sign from the administration this year I h: case for thl' fratermttes 1s nol so rosy_ as our nas been 1ts attitude toward student life. The sanction of pr?IJ~lll\nts fer \brotherhood\ \Yould have us beheve. In 1 t_he new social rules will ll;lmost equalize the level of social pomtmg out the benefits and a:Jvantages of the s:Ystem, the freedom between fratermty and independents. Also, the adYocates have. as usual. omitted the very pomts about college has sl:own a desire to obtain student opinion before fr·a~ernities which are ~ost import_ant. . making some administrative decisions; students now have );u sense ?f commumty can e~Ist am?ng sixteen self- more o_f an opportunity than ever before to determine interested diques and a large, dis?rgamzed group. The what kmd of college they want. But, as we might expect fratct·nities do much more than SJ?h~ _the _campu_s m half; the overwhelming fa;rce of inertia insures that the majority m.ther. thev make such a clear dtvis1on Impossible. Fra- of students here mamtain their roles as literate vegetables ternities are interested primarily in the welfare of their . own group. One is substituting fraternity loyalty for col- ShO\'\\ ~Otf\\n lege loyalty. One cannot deny that most frat~rnity men 1 ~6.'ft./U 1 -...,.,... One o.f the lesser known a-:- tivities on the Union CJJoge campus is the Ph1.omathcan~. that honorable debating souct). It is this group that has b, en responsible tor represem.ng Uz:1ion at \l.arious debaLn' l:vn- tests within the Northeast area. Howev~.:r, durmg the course vi the last year the radiu3 of th-.! Phi:lornathean S!Jhere o-f inttu- ence has been mcreas1ng geu- metrically, at great cost to the >tudent tax fund. I•'or example, last Apnl three debators flew to New Orleans to represent our schoo'i at a contest which was formed bv the in.itiative of our own delegates. Of cou·rse the New Orleans' pubLic transporta- twn system was not good enough for our triple threat, so instead they rented a car for the week- end. I only hope they were rested enough to debate the bar- tender over their checks. Final cost to the student body- $466.87. Last year the Philomatheans spoNsored a hrgh school lllv na- twnal debatmg contest and by Lhls effort ra1sed $BJJ. Very admirab.e. One might have eA.- pected this rltoney to lle u.:;ecl w defray some of th1s .) ear ::; expen.ses in an effort to lowe1· Lhe l>eb::~tmg ::;ociety's drarn on studeBt tax 11:mds. But no. Th,s year's budget was !ti150 h:gher than last year! Now faced wit}J. $835 in their treasury (raised .by use of the school name) the officers have decided to send three delegates (themselves) to debate for a week in California. Incidentally one of our three dedicated dele: gates, Robert $tolzberg, has bragged around campus about his tree California vacation. Perhaps the reason that the activ1txes of the honorable Phil- umateans are kno\\ n to so .few, ,s that the offteers, despite Mr. Stolzberg, do their best to keep them a secret. Robert A, Rosenthal '67 ••• In Defense To the Editor: consider tnemselves house members first, Umon College 1 students perhaps second. How can we expect a sense of This campus is not big enough for cars, trees, grass community and community co-operation from splinters ~nd peop~e: C~rs and grass have been vieing for the dam- which ha v<' difficulties remaining solvent from year to mant pos1tion m the last few years. Concordiensis is root- During this past week a letter to the editor of the Concordieu- sis from Mr. Robert Rosenthal has qome to our attention His or!ginal letter. contained ·many mtsund~rstandmgs and misrep- resentations of the actual facts some of which he agreed t~ change after he had been in- :om cd that he had made wild and falacious assertions. Despite this fl!-ct, the content and tone of his present letter is still such that the members of the Philo- ID<lthe~n Debating Society feel that an answer is in order. war-~ ing for the grass. r·h::on.2theans has been \geo- ~ n.drica.ly increasing\ during the cu ~-rent year, it has been at no gr'eat ex_lense tG> the student lax fund. nather, it is a t.ribute • to the society that it has been <>.b'e to enhance its reputation while working religiously with· in its budget. Mr. Rosenthal alludes to the T'h. on.atheans' trip to New Or· 1 eans and its debate at Tulane. His 1 ettcr implies that we d:e- ~ bated enly at Tulane and then rented a car for the purpose of dr;nking and joyriding at the ex;'eNse of the student body. t Rather, we had two successful audience participation debates, one with 'Iul:ane and one with Loyola. A car was rented be- cause ruMic transportation was ~ inapplicable to the particular debating schedules, and the cost o.f cabs, the 0nly ather possible means of transportation, would \' have proven tao great. The figure of $466.87, so gleefully quoted by Mr. Hosenthal, is a distortion of reality, as a more f!j careful examination of all the facts would have shown. This :ump sl:lm was used to finance net only the New Orleans trip, but three other activities. 111 filr. Rosenthal refers to our high school debate tournament. The rr.oney earned by this ac- 'I) tivity has been put into a con- 1 tingency .fi!nd which is being used and will be used in the future to defray Philomathean expenses. It is our hope that ~ these funds in conjuNction with ~·· our yearly budget from the StudeNt Tax Committee will ·_: serve to continue to increase t . the range of the society's ac- J tivities. By the way, we are not a secret society and membership is open to any Union student_ 11 eYen Mr. Rosenthal. Yes, the Philomatheans are sending a team to California next wee~ to carry Union's ~ banner against Stanford, San Diego, Fresno, and Berkeley in aud.cnce debates. ' Contrary to what Mr. Rosen- thal says, the officers are not sending themselves, but are sending the team with the best ~ · chance of success which hap- , pens to inc~ude only one of the ·• team's four officers. We we utd like to take this • opportunity to deny the rumor that the Philomathean Society is planning an Eastern Euro- rean tour next fall to debate the Bulgarian and Rumanian • national teams. Sincerely, Frank Mauro, for the • fhilomatbean Debat- ing Society. Pedan~ic Pageantry To the Editor: q (I <1 ll ll <t · En'n more basil: than the above consideration is the . We presently own an attractive campus with a park,. fact that tbe fraternity system is unfair to human beings. mg problem. Th~ ~ampus is not so large that students, The svstem lends itself to an uneven and erratic level of faculty and admrn1strators could not walk from large sociar\activi~y. Although the lot of independents has im- nearby lots to their buildings. We feel that the campu~ proved since last year, the existence of fraternities pre- should be closed to all traflic except delivery vehicles or, eludes cqualitv. Furthermore, as exclusive groups, fratern- at Ue very least, that parking lots within the campus ities TJick and choose their members. \Fratmen if not grounds be limited to large areas such as the West Rich- supcrlDr by implication, are certainly \different\ from the mond and \!:he new dormitory lots. ' firllt. the Philornatheans are not. a little-known group, a fact wtvc h even the most cursory glancf! at the size of the audi· ence that witnessed Union's de- bate last weekend with Hamil- ton would have shown. Not only are the Philomatheans a well known group on the Union cam- pus, but their name is known and respected in debating cir- cles throughout the East. While we are proud to admit that the \sphere of influence\ of the There were people who deq~­ onstrated against the war in Vietnam while the HOTC was • 0 \turkeys.· Inevitably, this exclusive element must cause The parking situation is ridiculously tight as things grief to those who are rejected by tl:e system. Such a now stand. The college would stand to gain both a better type ci social selec~ivity implies more than a natural sense of community and a more beautiful campus if it bans need to l.ive and work with friends: it implies pathology- cars and promotes grass. insecurity and false feelings of superiority, among other things. 1\'evN to buck progress, fraternities have become won- derfully tolerant during the last few years. Certainly, some fratemities do open their doors to all races and creeds. But many more do not: they maintain even today written or tacit rules which exclude certain minority groups. Further- more, the entire fraternity system can boast of a history \Vhich fcllov;cd this line of bigoted non-thinking. One aspect of fraternity pathology, a prevalent one at thal. is the approach to \good fellowship\ and \brot~er­ hood ·· which assumes as a matter of course that hazmg and harr~ssing dul'ing the pledge period and initiation are desirable. Paddling is forbidden, but what of the other \cute\ activities whic-h indicate nothing but disrespect for human beings? A person can either respect other humans or not; one does not respect a human part of the time and ignore hi8 rights at other times. Activities which pledges endure indicate that fraternity men feel that human re- spect can be turned off and on like a faucet. One wonders what r:nctiYates such a sick standard for behavior? Enjoy- ment gained at the expense of others' suffering smacks of sadism. 'ThP problem of fraternity interests vs. community in- terests can be solved in one of two ways: 1) de-emphasis of the system through increasing the desirability of inde- pendent life i.e., a student union or 2) abolishing fraterni- ties outright and using the houses for residence units. In both cases, the community sense would be enhanced by allowing freshmen and upperclassmen to live together. Since the student union will not be available for some time, the second course seems more reasonable. If e·\'ery fraternity on campus were as public-conscious as Delta Chi. the system would be vastly improved. But the good works of one house, or of a few individuals in many houses. do not exonerate th.e system. The fraternal ideal, lnconsiderateStudents C~ncordiensis hopes that the boorish activities of some Union students _last weekend will not be repeated in the future. Screammg drunks (the equivalent of oral exhibi- tionis~s), students driving cars or motorcycles on lawns. an? Sidewalks, a proliferation of intoxicated students, vio- latwns of the open-container rule, abusive remarks hurled. at Sunday churchgoers and several other uncivilized ac- tivities characterized the last party weekend. Such bla- tant disrespect for human rights and college rules lends a ?ne aspect to the image of mature Union \men.\ FUGAZY TRAVEL BUREAU extends its congratula- tions to the Class of 1967 and welcomes the incom- ing Senior Class. FUGAZY TRAVEL BUREAU, INC. PHILLIPS BLDG. 434 STATE ST. 374-4111 holding a cererr.ony and parade. Many people were disturbed by the demonstrators and repre· manded them for disrupting the ~ \'~ ceremonies. What kind of world is thls, Sa 1 ly? I can't under· stand it when people become \?ore arol!sed over the disrup- f ; e twn of pagentry. than over the i brutual death of a thousand peo· i 1 le in Vietnam. : Kenneth Kob:and '68 1 i e COLLEGE STUDENTS SUMMER WORK Albany branch of International Corporation has openings for ~0-13 week summer employment. Sale~ promotional work reqwres neat appeara~ce and in~eres~ in meeting and talking to people. Plenty of time for swtmmmg, boating, and golf. FIFTEEN $1 000 CASH SCHOLARSHIPS WEEK VACATION IN HAWAII ' . Last year's students avera~~d $133.00 weekly. For personal interview appo,intment phone Mr. Brod at 434-7171 9 A.JVJ:. • 2 P.M. OQly. . fERRO PHARM~CY 67 5 No:t Street Schenectady, N; Y. FR 7-0510 ·• FOUNTAIN SERVICE t '\ L, I II ¢: ~ .. I t 11 I 1 ~ ~ ' 'I c c E E H H A p E A SA TURD, 2:00-4 c( H. Go sr Pc AI So Ct Pt E. E. E.: D Fl Fe Let the J Down tc A uniqu Sine Fe

'~geo- ,. pti,:i;ing llt ·Ment -rl.hu~e • :.•':been , . .. to the ew Or- de- ~ then pose of at the - body. 1 with be- was \ he cost would \ ~ The ! is rae . mo , all the This triP, s. \ to our ac- -. a con- being in the ,. pe that with the will ncrease • ae• are. not , are Union's San in Rosen- are not are best hap- of the this , rumor Society Euro- debate • for the Debat- try deip- war m jTC was by repre- the -of world t1 under- become disrup- over the peo· work talking. d at Thursday, May 1.a, 1967 ''T· .h • • · · , ere 1.s no s1 n except stupidity\ FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Third Term - 1 966~67 'nflicts in Examinations should be r~ported to Mrs. · roff in the Office of the Registrar before Saturday, _27, 1967. I :: ,l : aminations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed . bel;: w is. the code of the buildings to be used. . ( {r (, • . ~~ I ~ ' ' ,, ! ~ . I 1m-Bailey Hall EU-Butter-field· Hall CH-Carilegie Hall EE-Eiectrical Engineering Bldg, GL-Geology J,~boratory HH-Hoadley House HU-Humanities Center PL-Physics Laboratory PY-Psychology Laboratory SS-Social Sciences Center OC-Old Chapel (~ J !: ·sA : RDAY, JUNE 3 ,; :00·11 :00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 26 (The Western Heritage; The M<Jdern World) · -in SS016 Comp. Ed. 34 (Problems and Methods of Economics) · -(Seoe. 1 in SS 012} MONDAY, JUNE 5 9:00-11.00 A;M, Comp. Ed. 36 (The International Economy)-in SS 010 Classics 31 (The Koran)-inHU 016 Economics 25 (Principles of Accounting)-iu SS 113 Economics 44 {International Economics)-in SS 012 English 60 (The Later Romantics)-inHU 014 History 34 (Democracy in Crisis: Civil War and Reconstruction)-in SS 117 . History 50 (Europe in the 20th Century)-inSS 016 German 30 (Readings in Contemporary German Literature) -inHU116 Political Science 44: (Contemporary Japanese Political Institutions)~in SS 110 Sociology :l!B (Human Society)-in SS 112 Chemistry 31 (Organic Chemistry II )-in BU .201 Chemist].'y 48 (Radiochemistry)-in EU 201 Geology 11 {Historical Geology)-in GL24 Mathematics 33 (Abstract Algebra II)-in CH 206 Physics 34 (Physical Optics)-in PL 106 Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psychology)-in PY 213 E. 14 (Particle Mechanics)-in CH 303 E. 4fl (Stress Analysis)-in CH 111 C. E. 31 (Engineering Design)-in CH 306 E. E. 33 fApplied Electronics)-in EE 24 MONDAY, JUNE 5 2:00-4 :00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 61 (Human Ecology)-in BH 30<1 Economics 36 (Corporate Accounting)-in Old Chapel English 56 {Poetry of John Milton)-in HU 016 French 32 (French Literature and Society)-in HU 110 German 12 (Basic German III)-in HU 010 Russian 12 (Basic Russian III)-in HU 013 Russian 31 (Advanced Russian Il-in HU 013 Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish III)-iu HU 115 Spanish 33 (The Spanish Language in Practical Use I) -inHU114 Sociology 43 {Social Stratification)-in SS 110 Chemistry 42 (Advanced Analytical Chemistry)-in BU 201 Mathematics 26 (Numerical Analysis)-in CH 207 E. 17 (Electrical Circuit Analysis}-in EE 16 - Oscar Wilde Chemistry 46 (Advanced Inorganic Chemistry)-inBU 101 Geology 32 (Biostratigraphy)~in GL 21 Physics 12 .(Quantum Effects and Fundamentals of Modern Physics)- (Secs.1, 2,1.1, 7, 8 in BU .. 20i) (Sees. 3, 5, 6, in PL 202) Psychology 35 {Organizational Psychology)~in PY 113 E. 26 (Analytical Mechanics II)-in CH .. 201 C. E. 30 (Structures I)-In CH 306 E.E. 47 (Principles of Digital Computers)-in EE 2:! M.E. 42 (Thermal Energy Conversion)-inCIIlU WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 9:00-11:00 A.M • Music 41 (Music Literature)-in HU 019 Music 42 (Music Literature)-in HU 0'1:9 Economics 39 (Public Finance)-inSS 014 English 63 (Modern English Literature)-in HU 115 History 3@ (Colonial Period of American History) -in SS115 Chinese 34: (The Chinese Language in Practical Use I:i} . -inBU213 Philosophy 43 (Metaphysics and Epistemology}-inBU 116 Political Science 63 (Political Parties and fnterest Groups) -inSSlU Geology 60 (Current Literature in Geology)-in GL 21 Mathematics 12 ,Calculus II)-in BU ~01 Mathematics 14 (Calculus III)-in EU 201 Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) . -inPL 202 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 2:00-4:00 P.M. Art 25 (Art of the Twentieth Century)-in SS 016 Classics 33 (Apocrypha and New Testament)-in HU 016 Latin 12 (The Aeneid: A Critical Approach)-in HU 119 Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I)-ill SS 014 Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II)-in SS 012 French 44 (Emile Zola and His Milieu)-inHU 213 German 11 (Basic German II)-in HU 116 Philosophy 32 {Modern Philosophy)-iu HU 112 Political Science 52 (Studies in Soviet Foreign Policy) • ·( Seoe. 2 in SS 115) English 12 (English Literature from Swift to the Moderns) ~inHU112 English 58 (Sentimentalism and Styles)-in IIU016 History 4:2 (Economic Development of Underdeveloped Countries)-in SS 117 E. 24 (Electric and Magnetic Circuits)-in EE 22 C. E. 44 (Engineering Planning)-in CH 305 -inSS 115 Chemistry 37 (Physical Chemistry Ill-in :EU 104 ... • • • • •1 '· History 47 (Russian Revolution and the Soviet Union) inSS 112 Anthropology 38 (Peoples and Cultures of Sou1h~ast Asia) inSS 010 Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) -(Sec.l in PY 102) {Sec.~ in PY 213) (Sec .. 3 iuPY 113) E. 18 (Elements of Thermodynamics)-in CH 303 Aerospace Studies 25 (World Military Systems)-in HH SATURDAY, JUNE 3 -- 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 80 (Literature and Psychology)-iltPY 113 History 69 (Historiography)-in SS 113 German 32 (Readings from 19th and 20th Century Literature)-in HU 116 Spanish 4:1 (Spanish Drama of the 19th Century) -inHU 016 Political Science 10 (Introduction to Government) -inSS 112 Anthropology 11 (Man and Culture)-in SS 115 Sociology 37 (The Urban Cornmunity)-iu SS 110 Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II)-in BU 201 Physics 42 (Thermodynamics)-in PL 202 E. 2 (Fortran Programming)-inEE 18 E. 50 (Introduction to Computer Programming)-inEE 16 E.E. 3 (Machine Language ProgTamming)-in :EE 22 Dambrose Cleaners FREE STORAGE ON ORDERS OF $.10 O·R MORE For more information phone FR 4·57 93 Let the lager freely #low. Down to Louis', let us go, .A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLA US RESTAURANT · •. ;1· , ••• (! , .. Sini:e 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in. This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 TUESDAY, JUNE 6 9:00-11:00 A.M. Economics 34 (Financial Analysis)-in SS 014 English 22 (The American Short Story)-(Sec. 1 in HU 114) (Sec.2 in HU 115) History 63 (Modern China)-in SS 112 Political Science 11 (The American Political Systems) (Sec. 1 in SS 016) (Sees. 2, 3 in SS 012) Political Science 64 (Legislative Process)-in SS 016 Biology 13 (Origin and Diversity of Plants-Coreiii) -inEH304 :Mathematics 42 (Vector Analysis and Complex Variables) (Sec. 1 inCH 210) (Sec. 2 inCH 207) C.E. 3 (Field Measurernents)-in CH 301 TUESDAY, JUNE 6 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 35 (Classical Literary Forms)-in HU 018 Comp. Ed. 53 (Computer and the Nervous System) -inPL202 English 41 (The Structure of Language)-in HU 117 History 32 (Emergence of a Native American Mind) -inSS213 History 56 (The Catholic Church in Latin America) Chinese 12 (Basic Chinese III)-in HU 119 French 12 (Basic French III)~in HU 110 Serving Union For 33 Years -inSS 110 SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl /· 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - S~ACK BAR-ON PREMISES Geology 13 (Mineralogy Il)-in GL 21 Mathematics 10 (Calculus I)-inCH 206 Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality)-in PY 113 E. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials)-in Cll 111 M.E. 32 (Heat Transfer)-in CH 303 ,. CAMPU.S CALENDAR • Friday, May 19: Convocation: Glee Club Gala; Theodor Uppman, guest artist, Metropolitan Opera, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Saturday, May 20: Tennis; Union vs. Middlebury, 2:00p.m., Courts. An Evening of Films, (Benefit of CRIA): Classic Comedies of the 1920's, and \Florence Days of Destruction,\ 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Tuesday, May 23: Tennis, Union vs. Harpur, 2:00 p.m., Courts. Student Council Meeting, 7:30 p.m., H.H.S.L. Student-Faculty Bridge Tournament, H.H.S.L., 7:4:5 p.m. Thursday, May 25: Dr. Herbert S. MeKeel, Pastor of First Presby- terian Church, Schenectady to meet with .students in H.H.S.L. 7:00p.m. Friday, May 26: An Evening of Films, (Benefit of CRIA): .. Horror of Dracula,\ 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Tttesday, l\lay 30: Interfraternity Council Meeting, 7:00 p.m., H.H.S.L. Wednesday, May 31: All-College Council, 7:30 p.m., li.H.S.L. Thursday, June 1: Violin and Harpsichord Recital; Gary Tishkoff, Cleveland Symphony, and Hugh Allen Wilson, Music Pro- fessor, 8:30 p.m., S.S. 16. Friday, l\fay 2: Classes End . May 3, 5, 6, 7: Final Exams. I F C Weekend May 19-20 Friday, May 19: 8:30 p.m.-Memorial Chapel Convocation GLEE CLUB CONCERT THEODOR UPPMAN of the Metropolitan Opera as guest Saturday, May 20: Memorial Field House-8-12 Free Beer and Band Open to Fraternity Men and Pledges Only Couples Only- No Stags

.. \geo- ~ at • been witll· .. the Or· e. de- l then ose of the Thursday, May 18, 1967 ': 'I \There • • 1s no s1n except stupidity'' ~ ( li r ! ! FINAL EXAMINATION SCHiEDULE Third Term - 1966-67 , onflicts in Examinations should be reported to Mrs. , De~· roff in the Office of the Registrar before Saturday, Md.: 27, 1967. l MONDAY, JUNE 5 9:00·11.00 A.M. Comp. F:d. 36 (Tho Internatio!iwl Et:ortulllY J-in SS 010 Classic-s 31 fThe Koran)-in HU 016 E<'onomics 25 CPrim·iples of Aecounting)-ill SS 113 Economi<'s 44 (International Econornic~1-in SS 012 English 60 ITht> Lclter RomanticsJ-in IllJ(H4 Histor_y 34 !Dcmocrac\· in Crisis: Civil \\'ur and Heconstruc:tion )-:in SS 117 - Oscar Wilde Ch<•mistn· 4fi (Ad>anced Inorganic Chl•mistryJ-inBL' 104 C le<Jiogy ·32 ( Hiostrati~raphy J-in GL 21 f'h·sics 12 ((Juantum EII'eets and Fundanwntals of - :\IodPrn PhvsicsJ-- I Sees. 1, 2, 4, 7, 8 in BL' .. 201) · (Sees. 3, 5, 6, in PL 202) Pwcholot.:.Y :l5 c Or:_:anizational Psychology 1-in PY 113 E. :2!i 1 Analvlical :\lechanics II J-in CII 201 L'. E :m ( Strudures IJ-In CII306 r·:.F::. 47 !Prim·iples of Digital Computl•rs)-inEE 24 ),,.JE. 42 1 ThC'rmal En erg~- Con wrsion J-in CH 111 body. t ·1 aminations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed bel' ,w is the code of the buildir:1gs to be used. J!isto1·y 50 (Europe in the 20th Centm.:;·J-in SS 016 German 30 (Headings in Contc'mporary G<•l'nJan I.iterattJre) -inHU116 Political Science 44 (Contemporary Japanese Political WEDI\IESDAY, JUNE 7 with be- was ' cost would \' The is a more the 'fj This inance trip, lUI-Bailey llaH BU-Butterfield Hall CH-Carnegie Hall EE-Electrical Engineering Bldg. GL-Geology Laboratory HU-IIoadley House HU-Hnmanities Centt>r PL-I'hysics Laboratory PY-.Psychology {.ahoratory SS-Social Sciences Centt>r OC-Old Chapel Institt1tions )-in SS 110 Sociology lO (Human Sodety)--in SS 112 Chrmistry 31 (Organic Chemistry 1[)--in BU 201 Chemistry 48 f Radiochemistry )-in BU 2()1 Geology ll lllistorical GeologyJ-in(;f~2tJ. :\Ialbematies :~3 (Abstract Algebra II )-in Cll 206 Physics 34 (Ph:vsical Optics)--in PL 10fi Psyehnlogy 31 (Abnormal Psychologn-ini•Y 213 E. 14 rParticle :ucehaniesJ-inCH 3()3 E. <lO (Stress Analy.sis)-in CII 111 C. ~- :31 1 Engineering DPsign) -in C'IJ 30£> E. E. 83 (Applied Elel'lronicsJ-in EE24 MONDAY, JUNE 5 2 :00-4 :00 P.l\1. 9:00-1 1:00 i\.:~1. :Uusic· 41 1:\'Iusie Literature J-iniit:' 019 Husic 42 C\Iusic Lilerature1-in Ill: 019 1-: {'() nomics :39 1 Public Finance )-in SS 014 E n~lish m I :\lodern English LitPrature J -in HU 115 II iston 30 1 Colonial l'Priod of American History) · -in SS 115 CJJi.msC' 34 IThe Chim'!'>C Lan~uagc in Praetical l:se II) -in m; 213 Pllil osophy 43 1 :\lctnphy~ies and EpistPmologY)-in IlL\ 116 l'oli tieal ScieneP fi8 I Political Parties and IntPrest Groups) -inSS 112 Geology 60 ( Curn•nt Literature in Geology )-in GL 21 jJ atlwnmtics 12 ,Call'ulus 1I l-in Bl' 201 :ll<t!twmatics 14 <Calculus III 1-in Bt: 201 jf.athenmtics :JO 1 OnJinarv Differential Equations) . -in PL 202 our ament. ac- 'IJ a con- being I\ SAT: RDAY, JUNE 3 Comp. Ed. 61 (Human Ecology 1-in BJ! 30 4 Economics 36 (Corporate Accounting )-irt Old ('hapel English 56 (Poetry of John Milton l-in H'U ()16 French 32 (French Literature and Society )-in HU 110 German 12 (Basic German III 1-in IIU()I() WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 z:oo-4: ~() r.;u. in the athean .., that n with ~·· m the t~ '; y's ac- j not dent. 11 ' · are ~ San eley in ~ Rosen- not are best ~ hap- of the ke this • rumor Society Euro- debate • for the • De bat- ho de~- q ., <1 0 ll <t war in • 0 was parade. by repre· the' ~ of world under- become disrup- f; e the ! and peo· i i '68 1 . o enings work ..1 olf. II'/! 4J at • 1; I t i J I i I Y. II ¢: ~ .. I r t .. _, .. :00-11:00 A.M. I Comp. Eri. 26 1 ThP \\' PstPrn lleritagc: Tht• l\lodc•rn \\'oriel J : -inSS Ol61 I Comp. Ed. 34 <Problems and l\lrthods of Eeonomics) i -(Sec. I in SS 012J, (Sec. 2 in SS 115): English 12 (English Literature from Swift to the 1\IodernsJ i -in HU 112 English 58 (Sentimentalism and Styles l-in HU 016 Historv 42 <Economic Development of Underdel'elopcd Countries 1-in ss 117 Russian 12 Wasic Ru\sian III;-in HU013 Russian 3\ (Advanced Russian Il-in IHJ ()13 Spani'h 12 ( Basie Spanish III )-in HU 1 15 Spanish 3:3 <The Spani-;h Language in Pradical Use I1 -in m; 11-! Soeiologl' 43 f Social StratificationJ-inSS lUJ Chemist!·~· 42 <AdvanC'ed Analytical Chemistr)')-in BL' 201 Mathematies 26 (l\:umcrical Analysis J-ilt CJI 207 E. 17 (Electrical Circuit Analysis l-in E:E J:6 E. 24 !Electric and I\Iagnetic Circuits )-in EE 22 C. E. 44 (Engineering Planning)-in Cll 305 Art 25 (Art of the Twentieth Century J -in SS 016 Octs~ics 33 CApocrypha and :-.:('\\' Testament)-in HU 016 I.atin 12 rThe Aeneid: A Critical ApproachJ-inHU 119 Ec-onomics 10 1 Elementary Economics, Part I )-in SS 014 Ec-onomies 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II I -in SS 012 Fre11eh 44 <Emile Zola and His ~Iilieu1-iniiU 213 Ce-rrnan 1 L c Basic German II J -in IlL\ 116 Philosophy 32 < :\Iodern Philosophy J-in HU 112 J'o lit ical Science 52 c Studies in Soviet Foreign Policy) -in SS 115 Cil emistry 37 (Physical Chemistry II) -in BU 104 Geology 13 !:\lineralogy II)-in GL 21 l\latllematics 10 (Calculus I )-inCH 206 Ps:ycllology 30 <Theory of Personality) -in PY 113 E. 22 (Science of Engineering l\Iaterials J-in CH 111 Historv 47 <Russian Bevolution and the Soviet Union) · in SS 112 1 . Anthropologv 3B <Peoples and Cultures of Southeast Asia) 'TUESDAY, JUNE 6 lVE. 32 (Heat Transfer l-inCH 303 ---·- ---- --- . in SS 010 9:00-11:00 A.M. Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology J -(Sec. 1 in PY 102) 1Sec.2 in PY 213 I (Sec. 3 in PY 113> E. 18 <Elenwnts of ThermcJclynamics J-in Cll 303 Aerospace Studies 25 (World I\lilitary Systems )-ill Hll SATURDAY, JUNE 3 2:00·4 :00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 80 (Literature and Psychology )-in PY 113 History 69 (Historiography )-in SS 113 German 32 (Readings from 19th and 20th Century Literature )-in HU 116 Spanish 41 (Spanish Drama of the 19th Century) -inHU016 Polith:al Science 10 (Introduction to Government) -ill ss ll2' Anthropology 11 (Man and Culture )-in SS 115 Sociology 37 <The Urban Community)-in SS 110 Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry Il}-in BU 2()1 Physics 42 (Thermodynamics )-in PL 202 E. 2 (Fortran Programming)--in EE 18 E. 50 (Introduction to Computer Programming)-inEE 16 i E. E. 3 (Machine Language Programming l-in EE 22 Damhrose Cleaners FREE STORAGE ON ORDERS OF $10 OR MORE For more information phone FR 4-5193 Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 i I I i . ------------- Economics 34 <Financial Analysis J-in S~ CHI Engl·ish 22 <The American Short Story )-(Sec. I in HU 114> C Sec. 2 in HU 115 > Friday, :\'Ia~· 19· Convocation: Glee Club Gala; Theodor Uppman, guest artist. \Ietropolitan Opera, 8:30p.m., Memorial Chapel. History 63 (Modern China )-in SS 112 Political Science 11 (The American Political Systems) (Sec. 1 in SS 016) I Sees. 2, 3 in SS 012> Political Science 64 (Legislative Process) -in SS 016 Biology 13 (Origin and Di,·ersity of Planis-Corel_II) Saturday, }fay 20: Tennis: Union \'S. :\Iiddlebury. 2:00 p.m., Courts. An El'ening of Films, I Benefit of CRIA l: Classic Comedies of the 1920's. and \Florence Days of Destruction,\ 8:30 p.m., l\le111orial Chapel. -m BH304, l\Iathematics 42 1 Vector Analysis and Complex: Variables) : Tuesday, i\la~· 23: Tennis .. Vnion vs. Harpur. 2:00 p.m., Courts, (Sec.l inCH 210) 1 Student Council l\Jeetmg, 7:30 p.m., H.H.S.L. (Sec. 2 inCH ZOi) . Student-F<tculty Bridge Tournament, H.H.S.L., 7:45 p.m. C.E. 3 (Field 1\Ieasurements)-in CH 301 · Thursday, ~ay 25: Dr. Herbert S. :.\IeKeel, Pastor of First Presby. TUESDAy I JUNE 6 2 :00·4:00 P.!VI. Comp. Ed. 35 (Classical Literary Forms )-ht HU 018 Comp. Ed. 53 (Computer and the Nervou.s System) -in PL2()2 English 41 (The Structure of LanguageJ-inHU 117 History :32 (Emergence of a Native Americ<tn Mind) -in SS 213 History 56 <The Catholic Church in Latio. A.nterica) Chinese 12 (Basic Chinese IIIl-in HU 119 French 12 (Basic French III)-in HU 110 Serving Union For 33 Yecrrs -in SS 110 SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 AM. - 11 P.M. 346-9.522 Excellent foocl and Informal Atmosphere 135 ERIE BOULEVARD BouJevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES . terian. Church, Schenectady to meet with students in HH.S.L. 7:00 p.m. I ; Friday, May 26: An Evening of Films. (Benefit of CRIA): \Horror 1 of Uracula,\ 8:30 p.m., :'llemorial Chapel. Tuesday, n!ay 30: Interfraternity Council ;'\leeting, 7:00 p.m., H.II.S.L. WednesdaJ, :II<~r 31: All-College Council, 7:30 p.m., H.H.S.L. Thursday, June 1: Violin and Harpsichord Recital; Gary Tishkoff, Cleveland Symphony, and Hugh Allen Wilson, Music Pro- fessor, 8:30 p.m., S.S. 16. Friday, May 2: Classes End. 1\Iay 3. 5, 6, 7: Final Exams. I F C Weekend May 19-20 Frida:y,. May 19: 8:30 p.m.-Memorial Chapel Convocation GLEE CLUB CONCERT I THEODOR UPPMAN of the Metropolitan Opera as guest Satur«<ay, May 20: Memorial Field House-8-12 Free Beer and Band Open +o Fraternity Men and Pledges Only Couples Only - No Stags

Thursday, . May 18, 1'9o7 ;t~Garnet Bow To Cortland, 14-5; Close Season At RPI Saturday Ruggers Drop Initial Match ' To Albany Med The !acrosse team, after beating St. Lawrence 1 and bemg overwhelmed ' by a powerful Cortland 1 · , squad, will wind up its season with an im- to the goal to give the Garnet victory. Bauer, Hull, and Pete Garrison each had two of the Union goa:s. Also adding to the balanced at· tack were Ron Wall and Paul Waterfield, who each scQred once. The Union C()llege Rugby Club had its first intercollegiate match last Saturday on Library Field against .Albany Medical Schoot A lack of both experietlCe and knowledge of the game marked the Gamet as a heavy underdog, but al- though Albany Med walked · off the field the win- ners, the match was surprisingly close. The score, 8·0, represents two touchdowns or trys and one successful convei1siQn. Top's Bar, Martin Win League Titles In Dutch Classic 1 ! portant battle with RPI Saturday in Troy. Their . : ecord now stands at 7~2. ' I i : Top's Bar won the team title and Larry Martin the individual average crown in the Dutch Classic Bowling League which completed its third sea- son last week, . I . I Last Friday the Garnet · controlled the last three periods and defeated the Larries 9-4. Ware ~~~Her led : the ,Garnet wit~ three goals,' while Sam l >Ill scored tw1ce and assisted on one other. Lee : i ;chneider had a goal and an assist while Steve 1 ; · Jtitterbu<;h a$sisted on three tallies.' Dana Jones, Cindermen . Succumb To . Continentals, 98-47 The Albany tEam scored first through their serum. They Iate1' pounced on the . ball in the end zone for a second try after the Dutchmen had failed to kick 'Wll.en they were deep in their own territory. Top's Bar, manned by captain Al 1 Case, Gary Prevost, Jim Stratton, Tom Benedict, and Andy Leventhal led from wire to wire and finished with an 11-point bulge over second place Bernie's Mid-HiH Tavern. Moffett's Liquor Store won a tight · battle for third place , edging Caruso's Bar :by three points. Top's Bar scored the highest team triple of the year, 2743, while Vito's Boys had the high single of 996~ j Brtlce Westby, and Andy Maslow each scored c nee also £or the winners. Yesterday they were dropped by Cortland, 14-5. Cortland now stands at 11-1 with their only loss : coming at the hands of undefeated Cornell, one · of the nation's best. Cortland led 5-2 at the half, after a 2-2 · first period. ' The third period saw the Garnet drop Qne more goal away, as they trailed, . 8-4. In the fin&l quart~I\ ·Cortland completely out- classed the D\l.tchn1en, ot1tsc:oring thein, 6-1. Harry Blank led the Cortlan~ onslaught with four goals. and three assists. Schneider, Ritter- bush, Jones, Westby and Mike Walsh each tallied once for Union. Pulled muscles, poor weather conditions, and shat~eted hopes were the forces working on the nr&Ity track team, as they suffered their third defeat. of the season, 98-47, to Hamilton. The first event w~~ the last hope as ;John Peters, Larry McFarlane, and Neal Gordon gainqd a lead in the +10 yard relay only to see junior Al Sessoms take three steps and repull the hamstring that has plaglle~ him this . season. The only . first place taken ~n the running events wasJQhn Peters' 10.2 effort in the hundFed. Peters took second in the 220 with the best time of his carec;!r; 22.6. Fro~h Nip RPI The outstanding performance of the day was The ftosh teatn Clos~<) out a fine '6-l season by Art McCabe's first in the broad jump, ; first in the UO::<'ICa~~u;oo both Siena apd RPI. Friday they ran l'ong jump, and third in the hundred. McCabe with Pete Garrison scoring six goals was the high scorer for the season. and Kim Hull fi · ve. Rich Swan, Ron Wall, and The field events also suffered serious setbacks P;.~u1 Buff also scored for the Garnet yearlings. as Joe James was na!1le tc> p~rform at his peak. Yesterday in an exciting m~tch which went Co-captain · Al Baskous too~ ll~cond in the javelin, · down . tl? the la~t minute, the fro~h edged RPI, with Ed Monfred, the other co.;captain, taking 8-:7. Un1on dommated the first half, outscoring secon(l in the 440-yar'd i-nt!'Jrmediate hurdles. the Engineers 3-1 in each period for a 6-2 inter- Sophomore Mark Meisel' was able to make a · m'isS.ion lead. However, in the third period RPI corr.eback fro~ an early season injury to take caught fire and closed the gap to 64 and scored secon~ place ~!1 · .th~ 44() ;yard run. Fib: T~rner's . twice to begjp tlie final period evening the score 5'10\ tn the htgl) Jqmp was enough to wm. at 6,6 .. Kim 'littll then slapped in a loose ball to This was tbe var&iety's best since 1958. Finish- . the -Dutd;1men ah~ad, but this score was ing with two wi:ns ~pa three losses, and Coach · countered by RP~ with less than a min- Coleman is confid~nt of a much improved team ute to play, With only fifteen seconds remaining again next year. The· state meet is this .Saturday in the contest, Steve Bauer scored with his back at Brockport. ; . . · Union newly formed sailing team went tQ Lake Cayuga May 6 Cornell to compete for the Ass()ciate Member Championship . of the Middle Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Assod~ · Th~ Yachtmen overwhelmed the opposition, taking ten firsts ~econd place finishes for . first place honors in the meet, St. Joseph's College and Philadelphia Textile · · DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room . Fine i food and legal Beverages 118 • 120 JAY STREET The Garnet c~rne dose to scoring several times but could not }lower through the heavier Albany team. At one JlOint, Chris Cassels took a penalty kick from about twenty. yards .out, but it fell Iow. Particutar.ly outstanding was the broken· field running <if Jim Jennings and Bob Slocum and the kicking ()f Bill Porter. The match VJas <:onsidered as the best source of experience br the young Garnet squad. In this connection, . each of the twenty-eight club members who appeared for the game played at least for one half. The match was also essential in firmly establishing the club as a permanent institution at Union. In tramurals The intramu11ai softball season is rapidly ap- proaching a finisll, and boiling hot pennant races are taking place in both leagues. l!n the National League, Phi ' Sig and P~i U are both undefeated in five contests, defeating Chi Psi, 12-10, and KA, 9·8, respectively, this past week. In the American Leagu.e, Phi Ep and Sigma · Chi are battling it out for the division title. Phi Ep is 5-0, having smashed Fiji, 13-1, in this week's action, and Sigma is 3-0. Head to head games between the lea<ling contenders are very near. The standings as · of May 15 are: Senior Larry Martin closed fast to edge sopho- more Gary Prevost by 21 points for · the individual average title. Martin ~veraged 182 to win his third Dutch Classic individual title . Following Prevost, who also had 182, were Ken Merchant 178; Paul Gerber, 177; Jim Stratton and Doug Vergith, 176. Prevost roiled the high single and high triple of the year, 258 and 674 respectively, followed closely by Vergith's 662 triple and Jack Trentleman's 247 single and 658 triple. Stratton won the Bowler of the Year Award, increasing his average 15 pins over his 1965-66 effort. The 1966-67 season was very successful for the Dutch Classic League. The league was increased in size from 32 to 40 bowlers and caliber of bowling improved. New high triple and average records were set and in 1966-67 there were 15 \600\ series compared to only six in 1965-66: National League Phi Sig -·--------- · -------- 5:0 Psi U .... .. .. . ........ .. ..... 5:0 Chi Psi .. - ---·----· - ----- - - 4:2 D U ---·--··--·--------- - ·---- 4 : 2 Beta ........ . ........ ·--·----- 2·2 Sig Phi -- · - ·-·----- -- .. ·- ·· 2-3 Independents ... .. ..... 1-2 Phi Sig Kap ---·- -- -·-·- 0·4 K A--- ·- ··-----------·--- - --- 0-3 American League Phi Ep ............ ·· · ---· 5-0 Sig Chi . ... .......... . . .. .. 3-0 D Phi-- - ·- ···--· - .. .. ·-· · -- · · 2-1 Fiji ..... . . .. .......... .. ..... 3·2 D Chi .......... .. ... . ...... 2-3 Phi Delt . .. ... .. -- · .... 1-2 A D Phi . . .. .. . .. .. .... . .. 1-2 Theta Delt ....... . . ·-. .. 0-6 · . ·~ GT+38J=NEW DART GTS. WEEJUNS*by For Gentlemen & Gentlewomen THURSDAY 8c FRIDf'.Y TILL NINE That's what we did. Took a well-tested 383-cubic-inch 4-bbl. VB and slipped it under the hood of Dart GT. The result : Dart GTS. A brand-new optional package of performance goodies featuring : • Dual exhausts. • Heavy-duty suspen- sian. • Red Line wide-oval tires. • Disc. brakes up front. • Either four-speed manual or three-speed automatic trans· mission. • And a low moan from the low- restriction air cleaner that your eldors just won't understand and your girl friend wiJI eventually get used to. The GTS package is available on both Dart GT models. two-door hardtop and convertible. And with either GT, you ' start with such standard features as • All-vinyl upholstery. • Foam-padded seat~~ • Full carpeting. GT + 383. The newest winning formula from Dodge. Check it out right now at your nearby Dodge Dealer's. Dodge 0 CHRYSLER MOTORS CORPORATION 5

·~.~ \ . . ~.t·_ EXAM SCHDULE Insert Concordy~ ·-~~ports ;.. -•'*·\'· ~~ . ·-\'u:t- 11 ·'· ~t~~.~~·-· . . , -~·~ ··- ·~ ..... ·· • .• t~~\'\ ..• , ·t~r ~ . . ~· STUDENT .. , ~:. ... ~ ·;\ '•... ... .•]~.? ····,...,..,.,. CRIM£ \*\.· ,; Page 2· ·' .. -~·t, . .. ,. 1- ·- - ... f, • ,\\)>'<; ' •• ~!!·\!. -------------- Greg Olson Tri-Sport Captain To Coach Next Year t, ..... \<f .;i~:.: tt~~::i~ - ··· ... ll-·1· First Concorcliensis~-:~tijJCte of The Year :_,, ~·,II i~ W, •• ~~ .. ~~;:' By MICHAEL LEVIN-EPSTEIN and GARY PREVOST Gregory Richard Olson is the winner of the first Concordiensis Athlete of the Year Award. The twenty-two year old senior from Mayfield, New York, has been the captain of the soccer basketball, and baseball teams at Union this year. In his three varsity seasons, Olson has started every game for which he was available. Olson played the same three sports at May- field Centrat where he was an all-league .first team basketball selection in his senior year, the year Mayfiel9- co_mpiled a .17-1 regulaF season record. Despite his outstandmg accomplishments, Greg was not recruited by Union. In his sophom~re year in soccer, Gre~ J?laY:ed left half but switched to center half h1s Jumor year, and later that year moved to center full- back where he played this fall. Coach El Evans, O)son's mentor in both soccer and b~s!tet~all, <Uted Greg's virtues as a soccer :player: 'He 1s a fine defensive player, difficult to beat one on oneJ with a good knowledge of the game and plenty 01 hustle.\ Olson played forward in his first varsity basket- ball season where at six feet he was the secand tallest player on the starting team. Olson finished second in scoring with 13.7 points per game, shot 48.4% from the· floor, second on the team, . and was third in re'bounds with a 6.8 averagce. Switch- ing to guard his next two years, Qls.on averaged 14.3 and 10.3 points per game in his junior and senior years respective!~. According to Evans, \Olson may have lacked m natural talent, but he made up for it in desire, working hard on both offense and defense.\ . Greatest· Ihr:ill . As the centerfielder of -the 1965 championship team Olson batted .350 · in the regular season. Moviilg to first base last season Olson dropped to . 289, but recorded an excellent .975 fie~ding I!er- centage. Olson is second on the:~team m battu~g again this year, hitting .364, with five REI's m seven games. Coach Art Lawrence commented on Olson's abilities. \As far as b~seball is concerned, Greg has been very steady as a hitter, very re- liable defensively, and has always attempted to improve himself. He is exceptionall:y reSJ?e~~ed by his teammates. He goes about h1s act1v1bes in a quiet, unassumh:g manner, but produces the necessary results without any fanfare. It has been my privilege to have had this athlete.\ The 1965-66 basketball . season was the most personally satisfying to Olson. Although basket- ball is his favorite sport, his biggest thrill at Varsity Golf Greg Olson holds the first Cqncordiensis Athlete of the Year Trophy, emblematic of excellence in Union College intercollegiate sports. Union occurred in his sophomore season in base- ball. That year Olson got a hit in each of the games which brought Union the NCAA Small College Atlantic Coast Division Baseball Cham- pionship at Yankee Stadium. Olson feels that Coach :Lawrence played a major role in the Gar- net's success that season. He considers Lawrence, \a great help to pitchers,\ and a \personal help\ to his own improved batting. Commenting on the Dutchmen's opposition, Olson cited Hartwick's Pappadackis as the out~ standing soccer player he faced and Trinity's Bel- fiore and Rochester's Deutch as the top basket- hall opponents. Olson, however, scor~tl 1:5 off Deutch, who this year saw rather limited service with the New York Knicks. Greg stated that Williams w~s the toughest opposition, and also \th-e most obnoxious.\ ,However, the R.P.I. basket- ball games were \the most exciting individual contests,\ according to Olson. Sees, Bright Future The Athlete of the Year- sees a bright future for Garnet sports, especially in basketball.. ·He feels that with the rceturn )of Bill N eidel and the elevation of Pete Garrison, the Dutchmen five should show a marked improvement next year. Olson is both an athlete, and a scholar, com- The Union College Golf team finished fifth in the six-team ICAC tournament at Potsdam Country Club last Friday. Rick Horsman led the Garnet with a 42-39-81, eighth on the individual list. Rick Critchlow and Jeff Smith both scored 44• 42-86 to aid the Garnet cause. Alfred scored a one-stroke vic- tory over Clarkson behind med- alist Chip Sherlin's 74. SENIORS CAMPUS CLE~N,ERS 527 NOTT ST. Opposit7 Union College 393-547~ L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Wr.ite or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse A \'e. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 Peter Pause Restaurant 53 5 Nott Street 346-9278 FINE FOOD Reasonable Prices Will you find the right job next year ... the one with the dght salary, r?ght company, right op- portunities for <tdvancement? ·WJ,y not l·et an employme.ot speciaJist help you help -?Ourself? OnJy J3· professional employment service can stay abreast of aU facets of the business world, incluclin:~ sales, engineering, finance, marketing, and mana.gement. .W4r itt~ au Allrn Agrury guarantees a greater probability of fi.nding the most ideal em- ployment position. One resume is used with many firms, so your qua.lifications are exposed to a broad- er segment of indusrry. More than one job oppor- tunity will await you upon graduation. As many as a dozen job offers per person have been secured through our services. Your whole livelihood depends on the type of employment you are able to find. S·hou ldn 't you con- sult us? Convenient Campu.s Appointments can be arranged. Simply call Peter Ryan at 434-5121 i.Etqnu 1\llrn . PERSONNEL PLACEMENT, INC~~GENCY 100 STATE STREET Suite 900 ALBANY, N.Y. 434-5121 ABSOLUTELY NO RISK OR OBLIGATION! - - ~~---- ..... ·. .. ....... -- Senio~ Sparks Dutch1nen Nine;· K~nocks in Four Against Hobart Greg Olsoh has been especially valuable to the Garnet nine as he sparked them to victories over Hamilton and Hobart this week Yesterday at Hobart, Greg went four for six, driving in four runs in p 12-9 victory. Last Sa~U.~day, h'e backed up ~ob Hallenback's four hit 3·2 victory over the Continentals with three .safeties and two runs scored. The Garnet is now 5-3 and finishes the season with a doubleheader at Rl'I Saturday. At Clinton Saturday, Union scored their second 3-2 win of the year over Hamilton as the Garn,et ta.lied .s.~.ngle runs in the first, seventh, and eighth innings. Olson doubled ho:rpe the fi·rst run scor- ing J.\llike Solomon who had singled. Olson single{! cin the seventh, stole second, · and scored when h.e tried to steal third base. In the ninth, Toth smgl~d, stole se<;ond, and scored on Ken Mer- chant's single. Ha!llilton ( 3-5) scored runs in the second and seventh innin~s with the aid of three Union errors. Waibel went. the. distance for the Con- tinentals yielding nine hits and suffering his first defeat of the year after t\vo victories. The Dutchmen unleashed a · 16 hit attack in de- feating Hobart, 12-9, yesterday. Scoring. five :runs in the fourth, the Garnet moved into a 9-3 lead which they never relinquished. Besides Olson's four nit, four RPI performance, Mike Solomon had a round-tripper while Toth and Jim Wilson trJpled. Bob McAdams, . Olson, and Merchant strokea doubles. Bob Hallenback went the route winning his fourth decision against two losses: piling a 2. 7 index in his four years at Union. The versatile chemistry major served one year on the Student Council and is a member of the D(llphic Society and Block U. Olson enjoys water siding and bowling, maintaining a 150 average . While playing baseball at Union and in sum- m~r le~gues, Olson was scouted by the Reds, White Sox, Phillies, and Mets. Next year Olson will teach chemistry and do some coaching at Scotia-Glenville High School. Referring to his career ambitions, Olson stated. \I would definitely like to coach in college if possible.\ .lVI!DSUMMD tiGHT'S EVE· On the eve of the scorching days (and nights) the lights among the Establishment's suits assume importance. Let it be known that they are of distinguished fabrics, colourings, and cut in a wide variety- and that they are now being (deftly)' fitted. Enough said, 50-89;95 tqr ~ob was hit hard allowing eight hits and walking I SlX. · Olson's f( ur for six performance raised lliS. batting average to .410 and left him with a team leading nine REI's. Toth's triple was his third. of the year. Wtlh a road game at Rochester today an,d tlle doubleheader at Rl'I (:)n Saturday, the Garnet have a chance to achieve a very credible fl•3 record. The season was originally scheduled for 15 games, but the weatherman had other ideas which forced can.ce1lation of games with IGng;s Point, Middlebury, NorwicQ., and Drew and se- \·ere!y limited the D1;1tchmen's o~tdoor pradice and game sharpness. Regardless of the finish t() the season, the hitting of Greg Olson and Bill 'l'cth and the hurling ()f Bob HI:\Uenback woald have to mark the highlights of thE! &eason, Hartwick Edges Garnet Netmen, 5-4 Union's tennis record fell to 3-5 on Tuesday after a tense 5-4 loss to Hartwick College. \1bis was a surprisingly poor showing for the Garnet, 'Who had needed this victory for a winning seaS())}, The Dutchmen effort was aided by :Br~d Wheat· ley, Sandy Levine,. and Len Duckworth, who Ea<lh scored singles v.ictodes. The netmen have tvvo matches remaining ~,tnd must win both to ·b:reak even for the season. In the ICAC Tournament at Geneva, · Ulii9n came in fourth oat .of $ix · teams, b~hind St. .Lawren~e, Hobart, and RPI, with Steve Karp pro- '\Jiding \the impetus. Karp reached the quarter fina's by defeating RPI's John Shaw in a tigllt three set match. Karp's victory was unexpected as Shaw had beaten him earlier this year. The frosh netmen ended a season abbrevhited by rain by dropping their final match to :BPI, 'i'-2, and closing the season at 1-2. Denny Me·yers and Ron W endoloski won their singles matches. Other singles players for the frosh were Fe1;e Siegel, Jeff South, Stexe Fox, and Jack Trentle· man. Also seeing action for the frosh this season were Rich Gilman and Bob Burwick. ~quire ~4np 326 STATE STREET l

