v Ll/\\ ..-------. C ~; Lj FOOTBALL PREVIEW Page4 v.c/? )<:}: 1{ , • • WELCOME FRESH , MEN! Founded at Union College 1877 I. 97- No. 1 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, l967 -' PRICE · 1 S CENTS College Honors Faculty Retirees Commencement ceremonies Sunday, June 11, brought to a formal close the teaching careers · of four Union College professors Vl · ith a collective total of 116 ye;:trs of service. .).\iatching in the academic procession for the final time were Harold G. Avery, professor of economics; Leonard B. Clark, professor of biology and retiring chairman of the department of biological sciences; D. Richard Weeks, professpr of English; and William T. Winne, professor of botany . Senior Member . Among the retiring faculty members, Prof. Weeks had the iongest service . Indeed, he was the senior member o.f the faculty, having been appointed in 1928, immediately after his graduation from the college hi. June of that year. He became a full professor of English in 1955. From 1935 to 1937 he studied at Co'lumbia, where he tQok a · master's degree in English in 1937. · · He recently completed a term as chairman of the division of humanities, a post to which he was appointed in 1964. A resident of Galway, he plans to make his retirement home there. Prof. Clark, who holds B.A., B.Sc. and M.A degrees from the University of Manitoba as well as M.A. and Pll.D. degrees from Johns Hopkins, joined the U,nion faculty in 1931. He became chairman of the department of biological ~ciences in 1945 and a full professor of biology in 1946. A specialist in marin¢ biology and in the effects of radiation, he is · the author of numerous scientific papers relating to his specialties. Fulbright 'Lecturer Dr. Clark ~erved as visiting professor of zoology at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland in 1957-58 . In 1964-65 he was Fulbright lecturer to Lebanon and visiting professor of biology at the American University in Beirut. He is a member of the American Society of Zoologists, P.lii Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, the _ ~merican A~sociation for the Advancement of · science, and the corporation of the Marine · Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Mass., among other . org~nizatiQns. Prof. and Mrs . Clark, the artist Averill Clark, plan to make their home on Cape Cod. . Prof. Winne, who joined the Union faculty in 1946, was · graduated from Union in 1934. He took his Master of Science de g ree at Cornell in 1935, and his Ph.D. there in 1947. Before joining the college he was vice president and co-manager of Winne & McKain Co. from 1935 to 1940. During World War II he was an instructor at Rand~lph Field. Tex., with the Army Air Force. t, ') As the college's b(,ntanist Prof. Winne had served as an ac;lvisor on campus t planting, Jackson's - Garden, and related matters. He had participated in biologi- cal and botanical expeditions to So~th America and Canada. Served as Chairman . Named a full professor in 1955, he served as • chairman of the department · of biological sciences during the year 1964-65. Pro(. Avery, a 1924 graduate of the University of Nebraska, took his doctorate · in ecQnomics at Columbia in 1940. He was tattght accounting, market- . , ing, and transpprt~tion at l;Jnion since 1947, wllen he joined tb.e faculty as an associate profefosor. He beclime a full professor in 1954. . COntinued on Page 3 ''Every Mothers~s Son'~ ' Features Union Graduate BY KEITH ~ARLOW~ A Union College g~aduate is riding a wav e of MGlVI: publicity w:Qich h as carried his singing gr oup, Every . Mother's Son, to tl)e top-ten lists of ' radio stations throughout the north- east. Bruce Jay M;jlne(, of th€ Class of '6 5, sing11 the lead part in \Come on Down to lVIy .Boat Baby,\ the gi'O'!lP's Despite his busy ~chedule, Milner plans to contin11e .singing with Every Mother's Son while he completes den- t al school train:ing. While at Union, Milner w as en - rolled in the flve-year Liberal Arts and Electrical Engineering program for four years. In his fifth year, he switched to a Pre-dental course. Mil - ner was a member o f Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity and during his last year sang in the Union Colle g e Glee Club. Union's O.E. Pollock, soon to assume vice-presidency of Monmouth College. R.P.I. Men Will · Staff Geology Dept. Union College will continue to offer a Geology major £or at least three more years . under a \cooperative agreement\ with RPI announced re- cently by Dean of the Faculty Theo- dore Lockwood. Professor Philip R. Whitney of RPI who will head the geology program here this year, said that RPI's staff \will teach some but not all geology courses h ere this term.\ He describ P.d a \somewhat limited program\ of two courses off ered per term with a major still available. Prof. Whitney will teach at Union every day during the first term. Professor Gerald M. Fried - man will teach Ge!)logy 38 this term, and Mr. Peter J. Buttner, a doctoral candidate, will act as laboratory as- sistant and teach night courses. Favorable Arrangement Dean Lockwood said that und er this arrangement, RPI was able to en- lar ge its Geology department as it had desired, and at the same time Union was able to continue to offer a diversified program in Geology. Because of th e necessary commit- ments to facu lt y, l:l three year agr e e- ment wa s reached. Dean Lockwood stressed that the tesults of this . agree - ment will be \studied carefully before the future of geology at Union is decided. No final decision has been made yet.\ Prof. Whitney said he didn't believe Union \has present Continu e d on Page 3 Pollock Leaves Union, Accepts V.P. Position . 0. · edward Pol:lock, who has been D'ean of Students at Union for seven years, wil:l leav e that post s ometime before the start of the Winter term in order to become vice president for student personnel services at Mon- mouth College, West Long Branch, N.J. New Responsibilities Pollock 's appointment to the newly created position was announced by Monmouth's president, Dr. William G. Vail Note. He explained that the Union Dean w ould \have supervisory responsibility for recruiting, admis- sions, registration. schedulin ~. student affairs and activities, off-campus housing, and placement.\ During his stay at Union, Dean Polloc k 'has had an all-pervasi · ve re - sponsibility for every phase . of student life outside .of academ ics and athle- tics. He has been an effect·ive . sup- rorter ef fraternities a t Union and has contributed to a constructive, student -o riented, residence policy that has led to improving on-c a mpus living. Virgin ia Grad No p'lans have been announced with respect to filling Pollock's posi- tion at Union. A native ()f Norfolk , Va .• Pollock received a B . A. from the University of Virfrinia in 1951 and a n MA from Ohio State in 1952. Balanced Attack Puts Sam Dill on Defense The Union Colle ge .foo tball team will have a 52 man roster w hich includes 35 sophomores when it opens its 1968 season at home against St. Lawrence on September 30 . With only nine returnin g letter- men, Union College's hopes f o r the football season \lie in minimizing the mistakes of our sophomores,\ accord- ing to Flood. The k ey to an improve- ment of 1966's 1-6-1 record will be found in better offensive balance . Union is ph ysic ally big, with 11 men listed a t more than 200 pounds, has good speed; a nd the capability to score from an y spot on the field. Known as a threat from the air in 1965 and arunning team in '66, the Dutchm e n will keep opposing d efe n ses guessing in '67 . Leads Offensive Junior Joe James will lead the offensive charge for th e Garnet . J ames, at 200 pounds, g ained 591 yards from th e fullback slot last sea- son to lead all Union runners. Flood shifted h is leading ground-gainer to make room for a 225 pound sopho- more, Kevin Mona han. Monahan has b een lookin g g ood in practice, but he is bein g pushe d by a junior, Denis Moffit . Senior Bob Utechb and soph o · mores Scott Kumpf and Ken Pearrce are v ying for the quart e rback spot. Craig Carlson, a sophomore, will prob - ably start at wingback. Tom Godfrey and Dick .Swan, also sophomores, are runnin g first at ti g ht and split ends 1 respectivel y . The rest of the offensive line will probably be comprised of Ted Jennings an d Ed Blechner at tackle, Doug Mele and a sophomore, John Scan l on at guard, and Russ Cicotti, also a sophomore, at center. End Positions The stalwart on defense is a senior en d, Sam Dill. An chorin g the other end posi tion should be a sophomore , John Burton, with Bill Dwyer or Andy Anderson and Tom Obe rst cpmpleting th e front four. Vito P~tenza, Ron Mc Avo y, and sophomores Fred Schrull, Waldo Lynch, an d John Duffy are competing for the three linebackin g positions, with sophomores Steve Bauer, Dave Gray, an d Steve Ciesinski in the de- fensiv e backfield. P /ace-Kicker L ost The leg injury to Jim Sab e lla not only l eav-es one start i n g spot open in the defensive backfield but also takes a\va y a place-k icker Flood termed \ the best at that specialty in r ece nt Union histor y.\ · Flood and his staff will not make final decisions on th e startin g team until after th e final s crimma ge on Friday against Wesley a n at Sch e nec · tady. The schedille: Sept. 30-St. Lawrence Oct. 7-Kings Point , away Oct. 14: - Rochester Oct. 21 - R.P.I. Letter to the Class of '71 Oct. 2~-Hobart, homecoming No v. 4-Williams, away Nov. 11 - Alft·ed, away Nov. 18 - Hamiltou ( Bruce Jay· Mil'it e r '65 · now si nging for M G M. most popular son, g , and plays the gro u p ' s electric : organ . At on e time during the summer 1 this record reac h - ed as hi g h as numoer six on th e top ten .son g s o f radio station WABC in New York citJ{ . Not long a g o,. th e g roup rel eas ed anoth e r r ec ord e ntitled \Put Yo u r M i nd at Ease.\ Miln er has been . singing with Every Mother's Son since its ~orm~tion early this year . .As a si g n of MGM's confi - dence in th e g roup's ability, EMS' first rel e ase on th e MGM lab e l wa s an e ntir e album, rat h e r than a sin g l e 45 rpm r ec ord. W Th e form e r Unio n s tud e nt ha s b ee n tourin g th e United . States this s um - mer on promotional tours. He i s also a third·y e ar st ud e nt at the New York University Colleg e of Dentistry. BY ALAN zmGLER So you'r e in college now. Some of. you expect to . en:womb yourselves in your tweed suits, adjust your ' silk ties and se t abo ut the task of ge ttin g ac- ~ cepte d by Dad's fia t . Other s have been wo rking furt ively for th e last f e w months growin g fac i al hail • $ !liid bleaching dun \ garees , and will $ e arc h for th e sme ll Of pot . and the sound of ''Countr y Joe and the Fisll .\ But between these two s t e reo . typed extremes lies the vast ma - pority of. yoq whQ are more lost and confused thrut anythin g e lse . What -you : have e nco u ntered thu s f a r at Union is . a confusion of ima g~s , ~ myriad of pleas l:}Jid a plethora of sug g esti ons. The resl)ltin g cacophOny ha~ probably ~ caused you t~ ::: ntiss g ood old B loo mfield Hi g b. ' You have · · fo und out · your roommate is a s l ob, your m~id has a moustache, and th e toil e t do es n't {<l u s h. Th e r e li gi ous gro u ps ha..ve told you that · tbete is a God on · campus, th e Dean of Students b as told you to watch out for mono, the coaches h av e told you that it i s possible to p l ay three ~ sports and still study , and you'v e paint e d th e Idol. You hav e b ee n told that you probab l y won't flunk out, you've learned that Che s t e r Arthur r e a ll y was a Pr e sident o f th e Un it ed Stat e s , you've p~int e d the Idol, and you'v e g aped lon g in g l y at the Nipple . won- dering wh ere the other on e was. Y ou've wondered why your roommate looked at you f unn y when you und ressed, you'v e made the sc e ne at Dio's, you'v e paint e d th e Idol, and you'v e g otten shot down a t Skids . You'v e e njoyed the West Col- lege food, you've en joy e d the West College bathrooms, you've painted t):le Idol, and. you'v e learned that when Umon says th a t they have wide geographi - cal distribution it m e ans that ail areas of Lon ggg g Island are w e ll r e p:r: ese nted. Chanc e s ar e you were a pr e tty impo r tant g u y in hi g h school but nobody know s you h e re and any- way everybody e l s e was pretty impo r tant too. Yo u'v e com e from a place where yon w e r e amon g th e olde s t boys and now you ' re amon g th e youn ges t m e n. In $ _ ec urity p e rvad e s th e f r e sh - man dorms lik e an icy wind; you can't se e it but it is felt e veyrwhere . In many ways you are ent e r · ing Union at a mo s t propitious time. A lot of chan g e s hav e b e en m~d e in th e last two y e ar s . Two y ea r s a g o g irl s w e r e n e v er allow e d in th e dorm s . Now the y ca n be 1 6ck e d in rooms · till 2 a . m. on weekends. New ~lass­ rooms and <lorms hav . e · ' b.e el! built, and last year wa s the first y e ar for a n e w calend e r and a new curriculum. B ut there are many n e w chan g es to take place and hope- fully th e freshman class will b e a conc e rned and vibrant gro u p. The social revolution is still in- choat e . Hop i;! fully, in th e not too di s tant futur e th e r e will be no coll e ge wid e social r ul e s and all housing units will be able to decid e their own hours and handle their · own disciplin e . The Stud e nt Faculty Com - mitt e e to End -the War in Vi e t- nam - will att e mpt to incr e a se the dialogu e : on thi s is s u e . The Movin g F i n g~ r, th e Film Work · s hop , th e Mo.'unt e 6anks, a nd th e Ido l will continue the g rowin g e mphasis of th e Arts at Union. The synth e si s of incr e ased e n - ro llm e o.t and a vocif e rou s stu- d e nt mov e m e nt mi g ht r e s ult in off camJ)us · housin g for n ex t y e ar . Much ha s b ee n d o n e a nd much n ee ds to b e done . Student Pow e r is a n e bulous and to som e nefarious conc e pt which has been tos s ed around chao t ically recentl y and has b ee n r e port e d to c a tt se s ustain e d fit s of p ar - anoia in some admini s t rat ors . Wh e n you c on s id e r th at c ol - l e g es a r e cr e at e d for th ~ b e tt e r - ment of th e stud e nts it s . e e ms inconsi s t e nt and totalitarian to Coutintied on Pa g e 4 ELICIT RE · PLY 1 : P e titions si g ned b y almost half · of th e 1 J n ion facult y a nd ro 11 g hly 1 2 % of th e Union s tud e nts u r g in g \an i m m e diat e , ex t e nd e d c ess ation o f th e bombin g o f North Vietnam as an ess e nti a l prerequisit e to p e ace in Vi e tnam\ hav e b e en s e nt to Presi- dent · Johnson, accord i n g to a stat e - m e nt mad e Wednesda y by a r e pr e- s e ntativ e of the Union Coll ege Viet - nam Committee. Paranoid Fea r \W e w e r e e x tr e m e l y p l ea s ed th a t more than half of th e fa c ulty mem - b e rs w e contacted will in g l y si g n e d this p e tition and g av e tis furth e r e n - c oura g e m e nt. M a n y s tudent s see m e d to hav e a n almo s t p a ranoid f e a r o f s i g nin g an y th i n g opposin g A dmini s - tration poli cy f!>r f ea r tllat it mi g ht endan ge r future job s o r .se c urity.\ Th e p e tition, with a cov e rin g l e tter from t wo committ ee memb e rs, was s i g n e d by 54 facult y mem b e r s repr e - se ntin g 47 '/' r of th e :fa c ulty, a nd rou g hl y 1 6 0 s tud e n ts r e pr e se nt i n g 1 2 % of th e s tud e nt &. A r e pl y f rom Di x on Donn e ll y , A ss i sta nt Sec r e t (ll'y of St at e in r e sponse to this p eti tion and th e Committee ' s an sw e r to th a t l ~ tt e r will . be reprint e d in n e xt w ee k ' s C oncordi e n si s. I<

2 ' I' Thursday, September 21 , 1967 Th'Ursday, Se Profs ~ Bronner House Converted To North College Lives On! perclassmen will be housE)d in North Section, North College. Continue Before joii ulty Dr. Ave ~ley Universi a'•1d at Betha · .!'g, Kan. l Frosh Center., Concordy Office North College h:as again been saved from renovation or re- moval from .the Union campus by the entry of 'Union's largest Freshman class ever - 425. The freshman class h·as helped to create Union's :largest normal enrollment, an expected 144B students. These students have placed the college dormitories under a seveve strain, and in spite of previously announced intentions to renovate North College 19 freshmen and 6 up- Richmond, an upperclass dorm only two years ago, South and West College will house tb.e Published Thursdays during the scnoo• year by the Student ·Body of Union Colle!:e, Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc.. College Publishers Representative. «20 Madi- son Ave.. N. Y. C. .Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union Cul lege. Publication Office, Schenectady Printing Con1pany, 502 Broadway Entered in the S<.:~ene.ctady Post ·Of- fice as Second Class Mail MaHer. Suhsrrlption 15c a copy; $3 a yea1· . delivered anywh\re in the \'nlted The office of the Dean of Students announced today that a Freshman Center, a new Con· cordiensis office and two meet- ing rooms for student .qrganiza- tion will soon be a:vailable in Bronner House. StatC>s. !lENIOR BOAitn .JOSEPH A. ~!AKX, JH. '68 ........... 372-4157 ... Editor-in-Chief JOI~L RUBEXZAHL. '68 ..... . :!77-9430 .. Busine,;s ~lanager .JACK ETKIN '68 ............................. 346-9829. Business 1\lanager ROBERT STOLZni~HG 'G~ .. ...•. l~dltor I·:::nwrit.us RICHARD BALAGUR 'G9 ............................. 3o4-7418 ............................. Sews l~d!tor ALAN ZIEGLEH. '6U.... .. ......... ,Vom~n·s Page Editu1 CLIFF SAFA!'E '6~l .. .. 3~:!-9730 ........... AC'ting F~atures EUitor · MICHAEL LEVIN-EPSTEIN '69 ............................................................ Sports Et!ltor JUNIOR llOARI;J Alan I.;:lein '69 ..... . ....• \::::sociatf' ~ews Ec.litor Richard Pattet·son. Jr. '70 ... Ass't :-:ews Editor Dick Daniel '70 ....................................................................................... Photograr!Ie 11ar.c H.euhins '6S. . .... Photogt·a11her Gary PrE\vost '6fl . . .. AssneiatP SpurtR l·~dllo. Neil S. Kramet· \ill ............ l.ss't :ua.naging- Editor Pete-r Drotman '6tl. --~ational All\'f;'t'tising :\lanager On the first Hoor, there are two billiard tables, two pinball machines, and a student lounge. Soft drink and other vending machines are to be added soon. 'Dean of Students 0. Edward Pollock pointed out that he didn't have an \operating bud- get\ from the college and for this reason additions to the cen- ter had not been made as rapid- ly as desired. lie said that be- cause of his lack of a budget, the machine ga111es in the center would cost each player, and the money would be used to maintain and improve the fa· cilities theFe. A.s soon as fi- nances permit, a television will be added to the lounge. George Volanakis • 69 ...................... ........ .. ................. SubscriPtion :\Ianaget· .Toel Rubenzahl '68. .. . .... Ass' t Nationa.l Advf:'rtising Manager ' Frosh Unlimited Henry Rines '69 ............................................................................ Distribution }tlanager Paul Gerber '68 ........................................................................... Circulation ~lanaget STAFF l\lEMBERS NEWS: Brian Holley, Len Kagan. Carl Englebart, Hal Ross. Roy Fruiterman. Neal Gordon. Bill Br•iman. 1\ichard Rosenberg, Hloh Gilman. FEATURES: Steve Fox. Seott Sieg!H. SPORTS: Mil<e Klayman. Jeff Kurzius. Barry Poret, Len Simon. Welcome '71 Officially known as the Fresh· man Center, its purpose will he to provide the f.reshman, the most limited ·of all Union men with regard to recreational and social facilities, with a place to go and rel'ax and enjoy the company of his fellow frosh. Because residence halls do not have proper faCilities for group parties and dancing, it is ex- pected that tl1e frosh may use the center for these types of Concordiensis is happy to extend its greetings to the newest members of the college community. We hope that you will look upon your status as Freshmen with no less· dignity than other Union men hold for themselves, regard· less of the impressions that ·some misguided \upperclass men\ may try to create. Labels such as \Freshman\ and \Class of '71\ are in reality unimportant. They should serve only to classify a certain group of people on the college's records. They should not be considered terms which will limit the activities and growth of younger Union men. As Union students, you are, very important members of the college-no less important. than the students who came before you. This place we call Union exists to \educate\ you, to assist your intellectual, emotional and physical growth. We hope that you will take advantage of all the factors in the. college environment which can contribute to your growth. We hope furthermore that you will not be selfish during your time here but that you will attempt to share your· skills, ideas and energies with the rest of us. The State of Union Conditions at the college have never been better for students, but there is always room for improvement. Concordiensis urges all Union students, particularly the campus leaders, to take an early start in considering ways to make our college even greater. Some areas which are in need of attention are: 1) the inequitable housing arrangements which waver from year to year at the ex- pense of the students; 2) the creation of an effective stu- dent poll for use in evaluating the teaching qualities of our faculty; 3) the institution of a social system on campus which will eliminate the gap between independent and fra- ternity living; and 4) the problems created by the presence of unnecessary vehicular traffic on the campus. These are but a few topics which students in general, and the representative bodies in particular should begin to discuss this fall. Bravo/ '· Concordiensis wishes to commend the members ~v of the Lectures and Concerts Committee for the outstandning program of speakers and films that they have attracted for the coming year. With a schedule of speakers such as we now have, the ordeal of earning, collecting and pasting the nine precious convocation cards should be considerably less painful. Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. Despite fiendish torture dynamic RiC Duo writes firs1 time, every time! Die's rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against hall-point skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists. nxc still writes £rst time, every time. And no wonder. BIC' s \Dy.amite\ Ball is the hardest metal made, encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not sldp, clog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic src Duo at your campus st<Jre now. WATERMAN-SIC PEN CORP. MILFORD. CONN. ·BIG Fl~e Point 25C activities. The Dean stressed, however, that though this is a freshman center, upperclassmen win not be excluded. The RathskeHer Board and the Freshman Class president will serve as the governing body of the center. They will deter- mine its long-range plans and policy. Two .students, who will live in the building, will serve as Student Manager and As- sistant Manager of .the center and the offices and meeting rooms on the second floor. Critical Need Filled The Dean said he saw \no need for the center to be open in the morning\ and said it might be open daily from 1-12 p.m., except with later hours on party weekends. The second floor will house the Concordiensis Offices and two meeting rooms for student organizations. Dean Pollock said he hoped the new meeting rooms would help fiH a \critical need\ for those on cam,pus. PRESENTING THE MODERN WAY TO SELECT A. DA.TE MEET YOUR MATCH FROM THE TRI-CITIES AREA AND VICINITY SEND FOR QUESTIONNAIRE DATAMA.lA CORPO~ATION BOX 8666 ALBANY, N. 'Y. 12208 AGES 18 TO 75 LU,_.CH 715 Albany Sfreef Specializi.ng: -·HOT DOGS WITH :FAMOUS SAUCE -· DINNERS A~ 'SANDWICHES -TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 19:21 I Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 3:00 A.M. there's: one place that does it! • Watch Repairs . • Rings Sized • Diamonds Reset :..t.. • Engraving • Jewelry Repaired''' • Peml & Bead Stringing WORK DONE ON THE PREMISES -T&V JkWUY Ul1la: COMPANY 315 State Street. SchenectadY' FR 4-8219 L U-tG:.I' S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING LN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Scher~ectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar rest of the Freshman class. •· Few Openings Davidson and Fox halls are almost completely fiUed, with only 3 or 4 openings at the \· most, according to Richard Lu· cas, Director of Residence Fro· grams. The College-owned Fraternity houses on Lenox Road are al~;;o almost ·completely filled, only , . one opening being available there. 'I'he College has placed roughly 20 independents in \~o I these dorms. I Off-campus living has been almost totally abolished with the exception of a small number of . students living with relati:ves or \\ working for their rooms. If enrollment continues to in- crease as it has in the past the college may be ~gain forced to ·0 permit off-campus living. 5-w-ingliae ~ at~ . Test yourself... What do you see in the ink b1ob7 [1] A cockfight?: A moth? '~'~ A moth-eatell\ cockfight? [ 2] Giraffes in high foliage? Scooters in a bead-on. collision? TOT Staplers? (TOT Staplers!? What in ... ) . ...( This is a S\'\ingline . Tot Stapler .: . (including 1000 staples) 4o Larger size CUE Desk Stapler only $1.69 Unconditionally guaranteed, At any stationery, variety, or book store. + ~--~-- _4 __ J' __;;;;;)~·INC. LONG ISLAND CITY 1 N.Y.11101 .. j3U!S!}l<IApu DlUf o!l ptyioqs noll: :sJo]dOlS J.OJ. ·A:HsJahp~< ~!no~ no.\; : llU!P!ll\\ sJa~oo:>s ·saptiuaA.p_u :isl!=!e3s aApls no.l; : sa.DBJ!ll aq,L · z; i · • no/£ aJB •.Aoa: :lqllg>poo \\~ea-q:f' \!s -saJ~a.x W: 1 nolt !\{lOW v •a -· ._\\'~nod: :tqllg>poo a aas no.\; JI 't :s~~NV •• Forget socks. We did, and came up with Bare/ Foot/ Gear sock/ess shoes. ·\\he was a< ·~oast Artilh .Va. He is the; of articles a accounting : tices. and oi ing for Dep sets.\ He is _-American 1 countants • Association ( among othe1 Prof. and ;t. to leave fo month for year, after turn to theil ·dolph Rd. , E .,. ' .. ' 2 or PAN D 1 Just 7511f2 Corr Mo ,, :,,f.,:-..: .• Fre They're leather sneakers- top-grain steerhide-tough, supple, secret-process steerhide that feels great and outwears canvas two to three times. . ..,. ~---~--- Forget socks, and get the feel of a goocl idea: Bare/ Foot{ Gear. We have it for you now. ORIGINAL SOCKLESS GHOES' 'FOOT Soc:l<~makers · hate us. !. BAREl GEAR @1967, WILLIE LOMAN ~ SONS 1 INO, $15 :l1a1I;r THURSOI\'Y & FRIDAY iiLL NINE 'For Gen• rhosE ' . Who :r· ·, Hcive •eco11 '\3' FOR

I ' 1967 Th'Ursday, September 21 ; 1967 Profs .... Continued from Page 1 Brown Returns To Union As Coach Yankee Stadium. in ege. South the •. are , with the \· . Lu- l'ro- also oniy able placed in \\ been the of or \\ · s to in- the to ·ll i ·1'1 ght? J staples) 1o Desk book store. .. ® ' IS rill. • Before joining the Union fac- ulty Dr. Avery taught at Brad- ~Iey University in Peoria, Ill., a•·1d at Bethany College in Lind- .. rg, Kan. During World War , ... he was a captain at the Army ·~oast Artillery in Ft. Monroe, .va . He is the author of a number of articles a:nd monographs on accounting and business prac- tices. and of a boolt, \Account- ing for Depreciable Fixed As- sets.\ He is a member of the _- American Association of Ac- countants and the National Association of Cost Accountants, among other organizations. Prof. and Mrs. Avery plan to leave foJ;\ Switzerland next month for a stay of about a year, after which they will re- turn to their home at 1818 Ran- dolph Rd. Tlte fi.:l.'st athlete in Union College's long history ever to captain tllree teams in one year will retu.m to his alma mater this fall .as .a coach. Gary Brown, who was gradu- ated frorn Union in 1965, will coach varsity soccer. He was ap- pointed to the college faculty as an instructor in physical edu- cation, Dr. Theodore D. Lock- wood, pl\'ovost and dean of the faculty, announced recently. Brown will also coach freshman basketball and lacrosse. During,b.is senior year, Brown was ·captain of the Dutchman soccer, basketball and: baseball teams. Jle earned three varsity letters i:u each of those sports at Union. For the :past two years, Brown attended the University of Ro- chester as a graduate student WELCOME' AGAlN · . ,. ' 2 or more SHI:RTS • • • • • 23¢ ea. PANTS - - SOc SUITS - - $1.00 Dambrose C'leaners 1517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE - FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohcrwlc National Bank KNAPP SERVICE LTD. 1000 State St., Sch'dy 12307 - Dl 6-5900 VOLKSWAGEN & IMPORT PARTS & SERVICE DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap fioom Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY ST~EET NOTICE FRESHMEN I I • .. NONE OF OUR BOTTLES LEAK OL£Y'S LIQUOR STORE 751 1 /2 Eastern Ave. Corner Jackson Place 377-0350 Mother Ferro's Restaurant '·' Specializing In Italian • Americatt Food ;.~., .. ' Discount for Union Students 2()c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Of 6-9554 1 1 1 5 Sarrett St. J I 'For three Generations.' • I rhose ' . Who Know ... ~irive · been ~ecommending - HERSitEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurlce\B. Q'~~~!~ons ' 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'~ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY while teaching at a junior high school. He ·received an l\1. Ed. this year. At Rochester, he coached freshman soccer fortwo . years, with records of 4-3 and · '0-6. This past season, his fresh- man baseball squad ··was 7-2. A native of Poughkeepsie, Brown was voted Dutchess County athlete of the ~ear in 1965 by the Poughkeepsie Jour- nal. While at Wappingers Falls High School, he was an all- county selection in both basket- ball and haseball. At Union, Brown was an ICAC all-star in basketball and won the college'.s Pike award as the best junior athlete in 1964. Brovm, a pitcher, . won -the final gar.~e that gave Union the NCAA Atlantic Regional base- ball championship in 1965. That tourm;unent was conducted in ; .. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP ~62 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red N~on .Pipe TUES. tluu SAT. 10 A.M~ 1o 6 P.M. THlJRS. and FRI.: 7 to ·11 'I'M SCOTIA, N. Y. :phone 399-163D He allowed only three hits for his Stadium victory and scored the winning run in a 3-1 decisien over Old Dominion ·Of Norfolk, Va. Geology • • • Continued from Page 1 plans to hire a geology faculty and knows of \no future plans of this kind.\ James D. Palmer, Deanof the Center for Sciences and Engin- eering commented that he was \very happy\ with the professors who will be teaching geology here this year. \Things are go- ing quite well and I am optim- istic about the sucess of this program,\ he said. CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 Union St. FR 7-1283 Frames and tenses Replaced Prescriptio11s Filled UNION BOOK COMPANY 2~7-241 SlATE STREET Books a • • Paperback Classics Party Favors .... Art Supplies Office Supplies FREE posterior your room! Take your pick of six colorful front-page blow-ups like this available now from your New York Times campus rep. See him to- day. And sign up for delivery of The New York Times·at special low college rates. Contact: Robert Seefried / . .·,../ Beta Thetca Pi f· .. . : j· ,. ,, , I FROSH! All Freshmen who are interested in joining the staff of Concordiensis should meet at Bronner House on Sunday, Sep- tember 24, at 7:30 p.m. At the meeting, students can discuss the requirements for joining any of the newspaJler's departments: News, Business, Photography, Sports, etc. All students are invited to attend, re- gardless of whether they have previously signed 11p at the activities exposition. THE PE·ANUT STORiE : I DARI TRE.ET RESTAURANT 2049 Van Vranken Ave CHAR-BROILED 3 Featurillg PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS STEAK DINNER $ 1.50 and Nutmeats irom e1ll over the world. BEEFBURGER PLA TIER $ 1. Hl . w/Fr. Fries & Vegetable I . I 406 STATE ST. FR 7-4261 ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLfiA·NING VI.LI.AGE AT 1.§59 VA.N VRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) .DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ---------- _ $2.00 12 lb.------------ .25 4lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20lb. ------------ .35 DRYERS 30 lb.------------ .50 10 Min.----------- .10 OPEN- 8 A.M. to 10 P.M. Mon. to Fri.- Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU _WILL BE AMAZED L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SOR.IDNSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - I'ROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEY:S MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 MIDTOWN BARBER. SHOP.., STARTING OCT. 31 All Haircuts to be done b)' Appointment from Tues. thru Fri. Appointments not neces- sary Sat. 515 UNION ST. LEVI'S Sta-prest Corduroy Hopsack White LEVI'S Stretch LEVI'S DAVE'S 453 State Street FR 4·9609 Open Tues. & Thurs. till 9 P.M.

4 Flood Pleased With Scrintntage Victory With one scrimmage under its belt, the Union College football team is looking better than ever. Head coach George Flood says, the best he has seen at this point in the season. Flood made this observation following a successful controlled scrimmage Saturday against Cortland at the mid-state school. In addition to looldng good on both offense and defense at Cortland, the Dutchmen came through the workout with no injuries. Union's chances for its best record in many years rests on the health of its players. Union score@ three times Saturday, while the Garnet defense kept Cortland from crossing the goal line. This is the ·first season Union has worked with a two platoon system, and the results appear favorable. Kicking Weakness The only serious weakness apparent Saturday was a deficiency in the kicking departments. The loss 0£ Jim Sabella has left the place kicking duties wide open. Leading ground-gainer Joe James and reserve end Art Jacobs are swapping boots. Punting duties ate being shared by Ron McAvoy and sophomore Steve Bauer. The two biggest single standouts Saturday, Flood noted, were on the defensive squad: lh1ebacker Waldo Lynch and back Steve Ciesinski. Sam Dill turned in a fine performance at defensive end. Class of '71 .•• Continued from Page 1 say that the students who are being bettered should :have no say in how they are bettered. Perhaps it is because everybody is afraid .of the word \power\ these days, especially when the word preceding it does not sig- nify a group of which he is a member. Perhaps a better phrase would be \Student Par· ticipation.\ People are not afraid of the word \participation\ ... yet. demic areas have remained above the grasp of the students thus far. However it seems that . this is a result of · the failure of students to conduct valid opinion polls and exhibit to the faculty a sincere and knowled~e­ able desire to participate in de- cisions of curriculum and fac- ulty selection. There appears to Thursday, September 21 , 1 967 be a \responsibility gap\ and it i~ uu to the students to take the initiative to fill it. In all areas, academic and non academic, the student must assume that it is his job and set about doin~ it. Conflicts be- t-reen the students and the ad- n~nisttation will be settled as they occur. Great strides have been made as far as student participation in non-academic areas. The All- College Council has the say in all \non academic affairs\ (ex- cept for a Presidential veto) and the majority of members on ~;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;:::::;;::::;~===========:=:j it are students. Aliter a some-· ':1. what inauspicious start last year · ,FERR·O I marked by a dearth of assertive i action, it is hoped that this year' P·HARMACY i wHl be a maturing one for the 1· stiJ:l infant organization. Aca-, 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y THE ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service Is a Pleasure 135 ERIE BOULEVARD FR 7-0510 I i Boulevard Bowl 32 AM,F Bowling Lanes Open 8 A.M. to 3 A~M.. SNACK BAR ON PREMISES FOUNTAiN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate I I; 509 Union Stre~t Near Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. RITZ REST AURA~NT 1725 Van Vranl<en Avenue 'Featuring HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Ciesinski, a sophomore, intercepted four Cortland passes. Lynch, also a sophomore, was a happy surprise at linebacker. James continued his hard running, picking up where he left ' off last season. He is adapting well to his new position at halfback.· The quarterback situation is turning into a contest between two sophomores, with Ken Pearce and Scott Kumpf in the running- and passing. TIME CENTER JEWELER WeUC<!;~nes t~e CDass of '71 arid wishes an Union Students a successful year. Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All 'Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. The Garnet has one more practice test before opening the season Sept. 30 against St. Lawrence. Union will entertain Wesleyan Friday in a controlled scrimmage. RUPSIS TAVERN Delicious Roast Beef Sandwiches Schenectady Printing Co.,. Inc. Corner of Carrie & Hattie Ph«1ne: Dl 6-9771 I 502 Broadway 377-8838 FREE poster for your room! !·;~~ .. -~-~:~ew I!Arx~ ~hne.tt. 1·l~~ J n£voLUTION ~~v-~tvssi\A;· .. c-zA.R ABDic'Ailis:~.: .MlCHAEL MADE REGENT, EMPRESS IN HIDING; _ PJW-(;ER.MAN Jtl/NISTERS REPORTED SLAIN =~~\i ;,.=:::_-~umWi iGu,DI ~;~ - ·. ~ --~· ~ ·~· ... ,,.~ - l{]llffii{!W~Rjl!TI · ...:. ·,;-· t\\'_d .Po a.-. . .. · • Take your pick of six co.Jorful front-page blow-ups like this available now from your New York Times campus rep. See him to- day. And sign up for delivery of The New York Times at special low college rates. Contaet: Robert Seefried Beta Theta Pi 428 State Street TELEPHONE FR 4-1288 Featuring HALLMARK CARDS WGY Card and Gift Shop and Laundercenter UNION AND BARRETT STRl':ETS SCHEJ'IECTADY 5, N. Y. REALE'S For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselblad, leico, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 Serving Union for 34 Years SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. · 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent food and Informal Atmosphere WE'RE GLAD YOU'RE BACK MOFFITTl'S LIQVOR STORE 1505 Van Vranken Ave. Ambrosia for All Occasions Your Closest Friend-Next to Mohawk Bonk Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 1617 Union St. Phone 37 4-5770 RELAX! PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 Jay Street Special Price For College Students Ladies Free · Accompanied by Gentleman DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. Mama Bianchi's Fine Italian & American Food Open Sunday Special Tues.· & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room WANTED BY RECORD CLUB Of AMERICA CAMPUS ·REPRESENTATIVE TO EARN OVER $100 IN SHORT TIME • Write for information to: Mr. Ed Benovy, College Bureau Manager. Record Club of America, CI\Jb Headquarters York, Pennsylvania 17401 . ·.- ~ ~ .'. Be the gentleman however vigorou,s a sporting blood, a subtle approach to jacketry is recommended. Those points shown, in excellent worsted woollens, are typical of a generous array the Proprietor now offers. 39.95-60 _ The 1/J ~quirt ~lJnp OPEN TUESDAY AND THURSDAY TILL 9 P.M. 326 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY t\ <. .. - Vol. 91- ) un~ To Cuituriill: Tri-City hi! last summe is part. of a sponsored l Opportunit: As 'an e: Big_: Brothej bE\WJ- plam Tliese · proi they are tc Program who also lE ence Depal for. wor.ker grelit 1 that avdilable . s plan one~c' to develop with his Y' brother vi minimum, they atten depend on of these ac cultural a1 tionai. Tb,E game.,or o hi,gb schoo ' !'. being rais• psychologio other persc can admirE \ ,, an. interest Prope It is vib volunteer ~ tight attitl self a frie1 bestower c Collet .. ·Hew and J Union 4 appointme ulty meml ments are every dei Robert Political ~ Assistant earned hi: grees fror ceived his by EsquirE Prof. Sha: He previc sity of M In the . Sciences, the staff Bio-Chemi of Michig taught at N eyr;;;.;tQrJ Umo.it 6( housed- in across frc ly, he is identify a in mouse and hast A gradt Michael~ Associate assume tl partment leave, Pr Harvard publish through married~ In the Miss Rut pointed I was grad lege in tJ received: Universit, working 1 interests She taugl sity of Ci of seven of 130 m c

1967 and it take and must ob and be- the ad- as sure ~,-3 Food Is with $1.00 Room 00 Bureau Club subtle in array ·r •'I ·, 11 CALENDAR SKI;DMORE :Pagel Vol. 97 - No. 2 • Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER28, 1967 FALSE PERSPECTIVE Page4 PRICE 15 CENTS ) Union Students Needed Cerem·ony Fetes Draft Act Spurs Failing Students To. ·~~ift Upward Bound Thirty-Nine Nett Scholars CuituiiillY,.;deprived students from Tri-City high schools were instructed last summer by Union students. This is part. of an Upward Bound program sponsored by the Office of Economic Opportunity. i As 'im expansi1m of this progfam, Bit Brother and '1'utor programs have btle;ll plann(ld for this school yea!. Tliese · programs. need vounteers, lf they are to be :successful. !l. ·Big Brother Plans Program director John P. Terry, who also lectures in the Political Sci- ence Department says that the need for: wor,kers iti' the community is so gr:e&V that it. will always ~xceed the avdilable supply. In the Big Brother plan one-college student will attempt to develop a close personal friendship with his younger \brother.\ The big brother visits his young friend a minimum of ·once a week. Together they attend various activities which depend on individual interest. Some of these activities would probably be cultural and some would be recr.ea- tionai. They might go to a football game. or on a double-date. While the high schqol stud~~t·s cultur~l lev~l is being raised, he 1s also bemg aided psychologically by the fact that an· other person, presumably someone he can admire in some matters, is taking an. interest in him as an individual. Proper Attitude Necessary It is vital that each Upward Bound volunteer enter the program with the right attitude: that he consider him- self a friend and not a condescending bestower of knowledge and morality; College A,ppoints ·Hew Pretessors and Administrators Union College has announced the appointment of twenty-two new fac- ulty members this year. The appoint- ments are spread throughout almost every department. Robert S. Sharlet has joined the Political Science Department as an Assistant Professor. Prof. Sharlet earned his Bachelors and Masters de- grees from l3randeis, and. recently re- ceived his Ph.D. from Indiana. Named by Esquire magazine as a \super-prof Prof. Sharlet has studied in Moscow. He previously taught at the Univer- sity of Missouri. In the Department of Biological . Sciences, George Miroff has joined the staff as 4ssociate Professor of Bio-Chemistry. Dr. Miroff, a graduate of Michigan a'lld North Dakota, last taught at Rockefeller University in New;;;.yQrk. He brought with him to Unio.it 6000 mice which are now housed· in the former cat laboratory across from the greenhouse. Present- ly, he is attempting to isolate and identify an anti-tumor factor present in mouse milk. ?rof. Mirolf is married and has two children. A graduate of Oberlin and Harvard, Michael Shinagel has been appoj.nted Associate Professor of English. He will assume the chairmanship of the de- partment in January. Presently on leave, Prof. Shinagel has taught at Harvard and Cornell. He will soon publish a book on Daniel Defoe through the Harvard Press. He is married and has two children. In the Department of Philosophy, Miss Ruth V. Parker has been ap- pointed Instructor in Philosophy. She was graduated from Whlttman Col- lege in the State of Washington, and received her Masters degree from the University of Cincinnati. Presently working on her doctorate; her special interests are logic and epistemology. She taught previously at the Univer- sity of Cincinnati. Miss Parker is one of seven women teaching on a staff of 130 men. Continued on Page 2 that he be willing to learn as well as teach. Past workers have found di- rectness and candor their most valu- able tools in dealing with young men accustomed to deceit and frustration. Tutoring Program Planned The tutoring · program is similar, except that it concentrates on improv- ing a student in a specific area or areas in school. The tutor works through the school system and at- tempts to augment classwork with extra help. In some instances two programs will be combined so that one Union student will be both tutor and big brother to a local high school or junior high school student. As a supplement to these two programs Upward Bound is organizing such ac- tivities as a photography club, which is under the direction of Jeff DeMunn. The program workers are seeking volunteers with almost any specialized interest to help form clubs to travel to area high schools to enrich the educational environment. Clubs are being organized in swim- ming and wrestling. Workers Badly Needed Student volunteers are needed im- mediately to get these programs start- ed. Anyone who feels that he would like to aid the program, but not work directly with a young person, he can help as an office worker. In the past comments have been heard in the Schenectady community that the col- lege isolates itself from the surround- ing areas. The Upward Bound pro- gram provides the Union student with the opportunity to perform a concrete service to the community, in this era when so many important prob- lems seem to be beyond the scope of the individual. If you are interested in any of these programs contact either Mr. Terry in Bailey Hall or Rick Cohen in 254 Fox: House. Thirty-nine Union College students have been named Nott Scholars for the 1967-tlB year, an honor named for Eliphalet Nott, president of the college from 1804-~866. The 11th listing of the scholars was announced by Union's chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi, honorary societies. The award is given to aU students who have an academic year average of 3.6?:. The Nott Scholars were recognized at the college's opening convocation today. Honorees ceremoniously en- tered Memorial Chapel in a line of march behind the faculty. Opening Speaker Speaking at the convocation, which celebrates the sesquicentennial of the Union chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, was Dr. David C. McClelland, chair- mart of the Department of Social Re- lations. at Harvard. His topic was \Developing and Achieving Society.\ The complete list of Nott Scholars follows: Albert Henry Mangold, Timothy Leon Rupinski, Paul Adam Beals, Thomas Philip Bennedum, Kenneth David Auerbach,. Robert Arnold Bar- andes, Wesley Eugene Terry, Law- rence Barry Pedowitz, Edward L. Valentine, William Bradford Wheat- ley, Richard Ethan Marshall, and Eric Howard Singer. Also named were Richard Eugene Patterson, Jr., Robert Wallace Ackley, Joel Rubenzahl, Eric Stuart Strauss, Stanley George Strauss, David War- ren Best, Darrell Lee Coons, Michael Seymour Mullman, Paul Andrew Grayson, Mark Stuart Lichtenstein, Robert Miles Cohen, Charles John Hogan, Laurance Jay Suter, and Frank William Glenn. Con:tinued on Page 2 The New Selective Service Act, hailed by many students because it grants deferments to all undergradu- ates meeting minimum standards, also has its drawbacks for the college man. Rank Rep!aced Mr. Calvin Schmidt, College regis- tar explained that under the new bill, progress reports for each de- ferred student will be sent to local draft boards by every college at the end of each term. This new stipulation wm replace the \rank-in-class\ re- quirement used previously as a basis for deferment. On the surface, this system may seem a lot easier on the student, but there are other stipulations. It is now impossible to postpone sununer school obligations and still retain an undergraduate deferment. Courses failed must be retaken and passed within one year of the date of failure. No longer can a student obtain a graduate deferment, unless he plans to study medicine or a allied pro- fession. Under the new act, a student will not be allowed to leave school for a year and retain his deferment. Responsibility The Government guidelines state that a fuli time student must \ ... earn within one year a sufficient number of credits to represent a di- rect proportion of his total required number of credits.\ This means that ~ candidate for a four-year bacca- laureate degree must earn one-fourth of his total credits by the end of his first year, half by the end of his second year, three-fourtll by the end of his third year. In affect, this puts more responsibility on a student's shoulders and is equally as demanding as the old system. Therefore, Mr. Schmidt conjectures leading ground gainer Joe James finds running room in th ~ highly touted Wesleyan defense during 19-7 pre-season ~ victory. Gridders \Up\ for Larries . ' .· Conservatively optimistic seems to be the best description of head coach George Flood as his football team prepares for their season opener with St. Lawrence Saturday. Although Flood termed this season as, \The best preseason practice since I've been here,\ he would go .no further in predicting the fortunes of his sopho· more dominated squad. Friday's 19-7 scrimmage victory over highly rated Wesleyan seems to put solid backing to the optimistic predictions being made by all con- cerned with the team. Shining· most brightly was the throwing of sopho- more quarterback Scott Kumpf and Ken Pearce. Also the defensive sec- ondary looked good against Wesley- an's aerial attack, as Steve Bauer came up with two ~nterceptions. Sop!J.- omore receivers Rich Swan and Craig Carlson showed good moves, fine hands, ancl excellent speed. :Both the offensive and defensive lines help up By LEN SIMON well against a big and experienced Wesleyan line, made up almost com- pletely of returning lettermen from last season's Little Three champs. ·. Lar~ies Lose. to Bates The encounter with St. Lawrence should provl3 to be interesting, as the Larrie$ romped to a 2tl-O victory last year, ~pt · dfopped this year's opener to a po<V:,rerfiil' Bates team. The visitors also bring in a sophomore dominated squad, with much size, both in the line and the backfield. Their down fall maybe in a lack of team speed, and thtough inexperience at quarter· back and in the secondary. St. Lawrence wa::; soundly whipped by R.P.I. in a preseason scrimmage, the Engineers doing most of their damage through the air. The Garnet will most probably rely heavily on their passing attack also, although Flood expressed the hope that he could put forth a balanced attack. .. His aspirations lie squarely on the shoulders of junior halfback Joe James, who broke loose fer one long ~tainer against Wesleyan, and looked fine in an earlier scrimmage with Cortland State. Fullback Kevin Mon- ahan, a sophomore converted from end, is improving steadily, but it will probably take a few games before he can be counted on for the big· play. Junior Dennis Moffitt is the backup man for both James and Monahan. The backfield is completed with Carl- son at wingback and Kumpf and Pearce both slated to see action at . the helm. ~ . Swan will run :from the split end, 1 'while soph Tom Godfrey is the tight end. Offensive tackles will be Ted Jennings and either John Denefrio or Ed Blechner, all juniors. Junior Doug l\'l~le and soph John Scanlon will be at the guards, with soph Bill Birns over the ball :Russ Ciccotti, anotltel' soph center, is injured. . . ••· .· Con~inued on Page 6 that the new draft law will be felt most heavily by those Union students who are lax in \making up deficien- cies,\ and he urged all to plan their futures so as not to jeopardize their 2-S classifications. The new regulations state that any undergraduate \who is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of in- struction at a college or university shall be deferred until he completes his baccalaurate degree, fails to pur- sue satisfactorily a full-time course of study or attains the age of 24.\ He would be eligible for deferment only if his field of study is deemed essen- tial to the national interest (usually medicine or related fields.) Convo Features Psych Lecture On Achievement Dr. David C. McClelland, professor of psychology and chairman of the Department of Social Relations at Harvard University, spoke at 11:30 a.m. today at the opening convoca- tion of the academic year. This year's convocation celebrated the sesquincentennial of the Union College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the national collegiate honor soctety. Union was the site of the first society chapter founded in New York State. Notf Sch1>lars March The usual opening convocation aca- demic procession into Memorial Chapel was enhanced Thursday with the inclusion of two additional groups. Aiding in the anniversary celebra- tion were Phi Beta Kappa represen- tatives !rom more than a dozen col- leges and universities in New York and New Englapd. Most notable was Dean Robert R. Porter of Yale Uni- versity,_ Yale was the site of the first society chapter outside of the state of Virginia, where Phi Beta Kappa was founded in 1776. It was from Yale's chapter that Union received its Phi Beta Kappa. charter. Continued on Page 2 ACTIVISTS• ·UNIT·Et! All students or faculty members interested in Vietnam, the draft, Student Power, social work in Sche· nectady or ally related. activity should attend a meeting in Hale ll~'!lse Student Lounge tonight at 7:30. What may prove to be the most im- portant meeting in the short history of the co-ed organization, Union- Skid- more lUS), will be held this weekend on the' old Skidmore campus in Sara- toga Springs. Student activity leaders from both colleges will meet to discuss the possible benefits that would result from a merger, or at least a close association of student groups from both colleges. Last year, the Union and Skidmore International Relations Clubs were the first groups to com- bine. US is a student organization that was. founded last spring by two stu- dents, a Skidmore junior and a Union junior. This weekend's meeting will be held on Sunday, Oct. 1, in the Rec. Hall at 4:00 p.m. Any Union men who are members of activities that have not been contacted by US· respresentatives at Unio-n, 'ltre invited to attend.

2 Artist Seeks Lecture-, Funds Artist-in-Residenc~ Arnold Bittleman met with five student organizations -{)ll Tuesday to - raise $2,500 for visiting speak- ers. Citi:ng the fragmentary and unorganized past efforts, Bittle· man described his idea as a com- prehensive design for campus activities. Basic Nature He stated that the basic na- ture of art is comprehensive and can be the focal point for aU media. Speakers would address three or four classes and ac- tivities during several days; they could be paid a fitting honorar- ium by coordinating funds from The Film Workshop, Moving Finger, Photography Club, Gar- net, Concordiensis, and college departments. This way, .fifteen speakers at the top of .tl:ieir fields. could come to Union. _ Examples lem in photography, and .spend the day shooting, developing, and printing with tlte students. He then would meet the Garnet and Concordy staff photograph- ers. The .coHege would .get an exhibition, a lecturer, a class visitor; and students would re- ceive top notch instruction for themselves and their activity. Ravi Shankar '·' Any department of the col- lege could take advantage of the funds by suggesting speak- ers and assisting in payment of a fixed honerarium ($100 plus · expenses, or just $150). For ~rnple the Music Department could invite Ravi Shankar, for a concert, and to address Mu- sic, Philosophy, and Eastern Studies classes, and the Moving ·I<'inger. Jim Rubenstein, head of the Student Tax Committee, . said, \Since the Committee wiJ:l underwrite any cencert that looks like it'll break even, this is a very real possibility.\ Per- haps the Philosophy or Psy- chology Department would have Susanne K. Langer, author of .philosophy in a New Key, and the first book of a trilogy deal- ing with perception. She could also speak to an Art Class. Suggestions of Modern Art can easily be rented and can help art classes, the Garnet and Concordy staffs; John McHale, who is Buckminster's Fuller's right- hand-man; Dr. ·Gibson, expert on depth deception; Anni Albers, weaver and wife of painter- teacher Joseph Albers, whose book, Anni Albers: On Design- ing, was well received by In- dustrial Design magazine, to talk on structure and design; Junius Byrd, anthropologist at the Mu- seum of Natural History, to show his famous films on the development of weaving to The Film Workshop and Anthropol- ogy classes; and any scientists working with lab phenomena, such .as the Land Experiment or lasers and holograms, that have visual effects. Fixed Amount The heads of activities agreed with Bittleman that each of the five should contribute a fixed amount at the beginning of the year, and a fund be organized to pay the speakers. This is the least expensive way of pro- viding students with professional instruction and guidance while enriching class and activity schedules with a minimum of effort. Prof. Allen Catalogs A-tnerican ·Documents Dr. Neal W. Allen, professor of history, has been named di- rector and principal editor of an American Historical Associa- tion project on individual free- doms. Allen is leading a group which is now studying select cases il- lustrating individual freedoms under law in the American colonies .during the 18th cen- tury. The .project, financed by matching $10,000 grants from the AHA committee on the Lit- tleton-Griswold Fund and the National Endowment for the Humanities, will lead to a pub- lication which will become part of a series known as \American Legal Records.\ More Research Cases will be drawn and edit- ed from the recards of both provincial and county courts in five or six celonies. Those al- ready investigated, Prof. Allen reported, are Massachusetts, Connecticut, Maine, New Hamp- shire, Maryland, Virginia and South Carolina. The records of New Jersey, and possibly Pennsylvania:, still must be searched. Prof. Allen has done research into the admini~tration of jus- tice at the local and county level in both old and New England. Prof. Neol W. Allen He has edited two volumes of court records of this period for the Maine Historical Society. One more volume in that series is in the final preparatory stages. Ee was the recipient of a ci- tation from the Arr.erican As- sociation for State and Local History for the fourth vo~ume in the series. Th11rsday, September 28, 1967 Con-vocation •• Continued fro.m Page 1 A second addition to the pro- cessi.on were the N ott Scholars. Thes<e students, marched into the convocation and· were seated just behind the faculty, are chos-en on the . basis of having achieved a 3.67 index for the prec-eding academic year. ··weekly Reader\ Judge PDof. :McClelland, an Ichabod Spencer Lecturer in Psychology at Union, spoke on the topic \Developing an Achieving So- cioety.\ He is a 1938 graduate of Wes' leyan University with an A.B. He took his doctorate at Yale in 1941. Prof. McClelland has received numerous hbnci'ary de, grees since that tipie. · :.•<. Served Friends ln addition to his .duties at Harva1.1d, he has served . many Amoerican Friends Service activ- ities. Ee has also been a lecturer and ll.as 'done research in many nations of the world. · He serves as consulting editor to three scholarly· journals and as a a udge in \My Weekly Read- er\ Children's Book Club. McClelland is a member of The Religious Society of Friends as w eli as a variety of pro- fessi()nal organizations. He is president-elect of the New Eng- land Psychological Association. At the luncheon meeting, I3it- tlert1an gave examples; sinee his Color and Design class studies ph<>tography, the Art Depart- ment would invite a famous photographer to the college. By sending ahead a folio of his work, the photographer cau1d arrive for the opening of an all-college exhibition · at t-he campus gallery. He would then address the Moving Finger, and the next morning see the Art class, give the students a prob- Other suggestions for speak- ers were Norman Ives, a graphic designer, whose exhibit at the Fund Drive Emerging,\ Annual Fund Topped Newr F acuity • • • Nott Scholars Union College's 30 Million Dollar Fund drive appears to be emerging from behind the doors of the Development Office. Puhli~ity of Union sports, con:!' sampling of the grounds, the splendid appearance of the campus, and the vacation of building needing renovations are healthy indications that tan- gible work will begin this school year. Money obtained in the annual fund drive goes directly into the coLlege budget for use in areas the president and board of trustees determine most crit- ical. Funds have been used in the past for faculty salary ini- creases, student assistance and library acquisitions. Dr. Martin TV Smash While in the process of final- izing the ground work, the ad- ministration is. hesitant to state any real plans for fear of up- setting their delicate relation Dr. Harold C. Martin, presi- with prospective friends and dent of Union College and for- benefactors of the college. mer Professor of English at To spur the drive, Herbert Harvard, was praised by Jack Williams, retired president of Gold, television critic of the Mobil Oil Co., and the national New York Times for a recent chairman of the drive for the lecture on the premiere of \The college, announced the forma- University of the Air.;, tion of the Campaign Cabinet to Dr. Martin's address on Na- be headed by Leo H. Bombard, thaniel Hawthorne's The Scarlet a 1922 graduate and financial J~etter was acclaimed by Gould consultant. as an \absorbing essay\ both In step with the drive, was \stimulating and lucid\ which the unexpected $202 1 000 donated made the viewer want to read this year by alumm to the An· or re-read the book.\ Gould nual Fund. This marks the commented that Dr. Martin's first time $200,000 has been con- analysis \illustrat¢d the con- tributed. tinuing value of electronic pre- :;;.;,;;,;;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ servation of good teaching.\ FERRO PHARMACY 575 N-ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 A formal instructional tele- vision program \The University of the Air\ offers courses in the humanities, American his- . tory, calculus, and analytical geometry. The courses rnay be taken for pleasure or, by ar- . rangement of The State Uni- versity of New York, for credit. Continued from Page 1 Other new faculty members include: Charles C. AHen, (Worcester Polytech) 1949-1950. Part-time Assistant Professor in Electrical Engineering. Donald F. Behan, A.B. (Cor- nell) 1963, M.S. (Illinois) 1964, as Assistant Professor of Mathe- matics. Stephen M. Berk, B.A. (Penn- sylvania) 1962, M.A. (Chicago) 1964, as Instructor in History. Paul F. Bryant, B.S. 1964, M.A. (Fordham) 1966, as In- structor in Economics. Thomas M. Cascio, B. Mgt. E. 1960, M. Mgt. E. (R.P.I.), as Assistant Professor of Industrial Administration. Carl J. W. George, B.S. {Mich- igan) 1956, Ph.D. (Harvard) 1960, a~~ Associate Professor of Biological Sciences. Fred G. Haag, M.E. (Stevens) 1953, M.S. 1958, D. Eng. Sci. (R.P.I.) 1964, as Assistant Pro- fessor of Mechanical Engineer- ing. Jocelyn G. Harvey, B.S. (Wis- consin) 1958, M.A. (Ohio State) 1959, Ph.D. (Cornell) 1964, as Assistant Professor of English. Roger H. Hooverman, B.A. (Albion) 1960, M.A. (Wisconsin) 1962, as Assistant Professor of Physics. Christopher C. Jones, B.S. (Hobart) 1957, M.A. (Johns Hopkins) 1960, Ph.D. (Iowa State) 1967, Assistant Professor of Physics. Eugene A. Leary, S.B. (M.I.T.) 1954, Ph.D. (R.P.I.) 1965, as Assistant Professor of Mechan- ical Engineering. Joseph A.- Maciariello, B.S. (Bryant) 1962, M.S. (Union) 1967, as Instructor in Industrial Administration and Administra- j ZELLMER!S NORGE FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate Mama Bianchi's Fine Italian & American Food Open Sunday Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Sbldd and Coffee-$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room · The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MA YFAlR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PNl SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1 §59 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS ~ Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ 4! lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 lb.------------ DRYERS 30 lb. _________ .- _ 10 Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .1 0 .25 .35 .50 OPEN - 8 A.M. to 10 P.M. Mon. to Fri.- Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.l\1. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANlNG DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know .. Have been recommending HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER MaurilcelB. Qi 4 tlubari & ons . E 'A3 Union Graduates in Graubarf Family•• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVI.CE AND GOOD JEWELRY tive Assistant to Prof. Donald S. Holmes. Zafar A. Malik, I.Sc. (Ewing Christian College, Allahabad, In- dia) 1947, Diplomate (Indian Railway School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering) 1953; M.S. (Union) 1967, as In- structor in Economics. Donald J. Meeker, (RPI) '1965 (New Hampshire) 1967, Instruc- tor in Electrical Engineering. Walter Mueller, First Diploma (University of Erlangen) 1959, Second Diploma (Studiensemin- ar Realgymnasium) 1961, as Visiting Instructor in German. David B. Potts, B.A., (.W es- leyan) 1960, MA. 1961,. Ph.D. (Harvard) 1967, as Assistant Professor of History. Stephen A. Riley, B.S. (State University of New York Mari- time College) 1962, M.S. (R.P.I.) 1965, as Instructor in Mathe- matics. Willard D. Roth, B.A. (Swarth- more) 1950, M.A. 1952, Ph.D. (Harvard 1966, Professor and Chairman of Department of Biological Sciences. gers) 1965, M.A. (Syracuse) 19()7, as Assistant to the Dean uf Students and Director of :Residence Program. Charles A. MaGill, B.S. (Un- ion) 1962, as Assistant Director ()f Alumni Relations. Mrs. Delia G. Moore, B. De- sign (Michigan) 1946, as Assist- ant Cataloger (Library) with rank of Instructor. Richard L. Sine, B.A. (Le- high) 1965, as News Director. Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, Continued from Page l In addition Benjamin Volin- ski~ M:artin Alan Strosberg, Douglas Evan Hatch, Howard Mal'k: Crane, Richard Sanders Gordon, ,Michael Stephen Balkin, Walter James Mahoney Pfeil, Jobn Crest Anes, John Richard Berger, Lawrence Richard Spi- vack. Eichard Michael Paley, An.th:ony Richard Suske, and Robert Mitchell Barkan were aw .arded scholarships. A unique place to dine with ol<l European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erle Blvd. Large pa.rties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations pilo-he FR 4-8917 Keith E. Schulbert, B.S. 1963, M.S. (Washington) 1965, as In- structor in Physics. 1.·· Arnold Seiken, B.A. ( Syra- cuse) 1951, M.A. 1954, Ph.D. (Michigan) 1963, as Associate l'rofessor of Mathematics. D E.W ITT'S John R. Sowa, B.S. (Notre Dame) 1956, Ph.D. (Pennsyl- Yania) 1964, as Assistant Pro- fessor of Chemistry. Appointed to the College's Administrative staff: Robert G. Bingham, Jr., B.A . (Middlebury) 1964, M.A. (North- western) 1966, as Director of Student Aid and Lecturer in Economics. Richard W. Lucas, B.A. (Rut- Cafeteria and T .ap Room Fine Food and legal Eeverages 118- 120 JAY STREET Chances are, you like to go without sods, So, we've built sockless shoes for you. They're-classic-looking sneakers made of our own special leather-tough, supple, secret-pr()cess steerhide that feels great and outwears canvas _two to three times. Sock lessnessmansl:lip is here. Soi:ue Bare/ Foot/ Gear sockless leather sneakers. Come in, and put the two together. ~. . . l~IC.INAL ~o.:.KLE.S:I suor.:s · FOOT l':,. 'BAREl l(lessnes·smanshi·P· ,GEAR ®19&7, WILLIE: LOMAN t< SONS, INC. $13 ) ThursdCiy, ~ THURSDAY, SE ial Chapoi FRIDAY, SEPT. Film Serio Social Sci SATURDAY, SE Homtt. SUNDAY, OCT TUESD4Y, OC Church wi Abandon\ stud.mts c FRIDA·¥, OCT, 9.00 P.M SATURDAY, 0 Away. SUNDAY, OC' partment WEDNESDAY, Potentials bers Whc Center. Opening 9:30 P.M THURSDAY, C Mr. Edwc ~·Towcnds P.M., :Re· Fe if Wl IX TI A Cl EXI G.EA 231 I Del me 112 Enio~

28, 1967 •• 1 pro- Scholars. into the seate(! are f having for the · Ichabod topic So- of Wes' an A.B. at Yale has de, . :.n~ .duties at many activ- a lecturer in ~any ing editor rnals and Read- of Friends of pro- He is New Eng- Volin- Strosberg, Howard Sanders Balkin, Pfeil, Richard Spi- Paley, and were '~ .. ThursdCiy, September 28, 1967 3 Giant Steps: Septemb~r 28 - October 8 THURSDAY', SEPT. 28: Inter-fraternity Council, 8:00 P.'M., Memor• ial Chapol, Byrds on iiTrane~\ Track FRIDAY, SEPT. 29: Newman Club ·oance, 8.00 P.M .. , Rutsell Sage. Fll~ Series, \End of Innocence,\ 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 :P.M., Socool Science Building. 01·6. SATUHRDAY, SE!tT. 30: Football, Union vs. St. Lawrence, 1:30 P.M., o:ntt. SUNDAY, OCT. 1: Annual Tri-Ci:y Hillel •Picnic, ·1•2:00 Noon. ~- MONDAY', OCf. 2: 'HHSL Army O.C.S., all day. TUESDAY, OCT. 3:: Rev. Glen Cronin, Pastor of Faith Baptist Church will speak to students en \Th> God .You Are About lo Abandon\ in the Music Room of the Library at 7:00 :P.M. All stud.mts are invited to attend~ WEDNESDAY, ·ocr. 4: Soccer, Union vs. Hartford, 3:30P.M. Home. FRIDA·Y, OCT, 6: F!lm. Series, \The Last Lough,'' '7:00 P.M. and 9.00 P.M., Socral Science ·Building OJ 6. SATUARDAY, OCT. 7: Football, Union vs. King's Point, 1:30 P.M., way. September 28 - October 5 SUNDAY, OCT. 1: Annual Recital by Members of Faculty of ·De· portment of Music, 7.:30 P.M., College Hall. WEDNESD~Y', OCT. 4: Panel Discussion an PEP ·(Program to E··cita Potentralsl Summer Program, Panelisls incluaing Faculty Mem· bers Who Participated in ·the Program, 7:15 P.M., Recreation Center. Opening 'Exhibition of Painlings by Victor Liguori, 7:30 P.M.- 9:30 P.M., :Hathorn Gallery. THURSDAY, OCT. 5: ·Lecture Sponsored by Politics Club, Speaker: Mr. Edward Greer, Instructor in Government, Skidmore; Topic: \Towards a Theory of Justification of ·student Power,\ 7:30 P.M., :Recr.eation Center, Feiffer by CLIFFORD SAFA.NE John Coltrane would have been forty-one a week ago today. Unfortunately we can't celebrate with him, but, instead, for him. All we can do is listen to his music and realize the man's great- ness. Trane's music always was powerful, but it wasn't this quality which made it great. It had something else. The music encompassed every- thing; it breathed with life. All that one can say is that Trane's music was life and that his life was music. Trane was a respected figure not only in the jazz community but also by rock musicians. And right now, there are two current albums which pay respect to the great tenor saxaphonist. They are the Byrds' Greatest Hits (Columbia) and Archie Shepp's Mama Too Tight (Impulse). And both albums are excellent. Jnfluencial The Byrds and Trane crossed musical paths with the hit \Eight Miles High.'' David Crosby, one of the Byrds, has openly stated that Coltrane and his exploration of Indian music had been in mind when \Miles\ was created and was a definite influence. He cited the guitar solos as being partially Coltrane derivative. Then listen to \Do You Want to be a Rock and :Roll Star?'' Then hear any recent Coltrane album. Notice the similarities. Both musics im- merse the listener in so much sound that he is completely drawn in. The music isn't necessarily psychedelic, but when drawn in, you see life made into colors and shades of all sorts. Every- thing is blended together, the effect being that of a collage. What you are experienc- ing, however, is hearing life being played for you from happiness to anger. It is a complete ex- perience. The Byrds go about creating their colors by using prerecorded tapes and a trumpet (referring to \Star\). The barrage of sound which they create reminds me of the \sheets of sound\ which Coltrane produces on the tenor sax. I'm not implying that jazz and rock have finally come together, but rather that musicians with different W~ OPftV WOW,CHI6F' DON'T YOU THUJK IT~ A 1311 CHAJJC61'? tl f1. ·- ~ Of\> tHIS BIGOTED WHITt COP WITH A DANDRUFF PROBtfM- r ro~sr CARt'( ~OM~ ONe~ 60T -ro f3/(1~8 1116 REA£... WORL.ll INTO TV COI-1 K tRC lALS ~ EXPERlENCED PROGRAMMERS Preferred OS/360 COBOL - PL- 1 - FORTRAN Full time - /'art time GEAR ASSOCIATES 231 Delaware Avenue Delmar, New York 439-2411 MAY86. BUT I'f'll AFRAID l(OU 60 100 F John Coltrane has influenced musicians of varied backgrounds. backgrounds are listening to one another. \Star\ and \Miles\ are excellent rock, and they can be appreciated even more when compared with the Byrds earlier hits like \Tambourine Man\ and \Turn Turn, Turn.\ Not that these tunes aren't well done or simply aren't good tunes. On the contrary, they are excellent. But they are all so similar in style, performance, and content that if the listener taped all the songs together, the playback would sound like one super-long song. But the later Byrds show di- versity. Still, the early Byrds are an important group for no other reason that that they started folk rock. Expressive Artist And then there is tenor saxaphcmist Archie Shepp, one of America's finest musicians and one w~o ARR£'S 1--.., IHrs NfGRO WITH A WCTORATE WHO T6L,VS HIH ABOUT ?f,AB. NOT FAR \ 1:!1!0 UGH r l LOOk\ FORWI\RD ... r TO TfiAT DNi OF -~ iRU!: ~ ~QU/I..LlT'I- .., ~ - ;; who has been ignored all too frequently. What makes Shepp such an important artist is that he can express himself extremely well either musically or vocaUy. And maybe this is his preblem. Shepp communicates so forcefully that his naked straightforward music sometimes tends to repel the 1 listener. Shepp is e:xp11essing his self, a Negro ip a racist society (which whether you like it or not is what we are). But more importantly, he is addressing himself to all people of all ghettos. Of course, the major recognized ghetto areas are those of economiC deprivation like Watts and Harlem where the Negro p~edominates. And lately, there has been a growing response to Shepp's music by black people although the audience is smaH when compared to those of such artists .as .James Brown and the Supremes . But now certain whites al!e being drawn into Shepp's sphere. This is the new white from the middle and upper classes. He is beginning to realize that his Scarsdale or Shaker Heights can be just as confining as the ·traditional ghetto, for it shuts him off from part of life. He only sees the better things. Never poverty. And some are tired of this life. They want to experience everything, Thus some have started to listen to Shepp (as well as the late John Coltrane and Eric Dolphy). Latest Album This is the mood of Shepp's latest album, \Mama Too Tight.\ The entirealbum is extremely good with \Portrait of Bob Thompson\ being extraordinary. The piece is a mixture of wild, frenzied solos .and tightly disciplined ensembles. The music is alternately sad, angry, and joyous. But there is always purpose behind it. Shepp is portraying the life of a young man who died all to soon. The music tells the story of his life. Throughout \Portrait\, She].Jp is expressing all of himself. And no matter how wild he plays, love is the most important par-t of him. Through all his frustration (not hate) m'l.d anger, it comes Continued on Page 4 WJU5fJ IT CA~ f£ 1116 Ne6RO {?)·· WHO HAS IH~ · . DA DROFF .·::. ... PROB~6M. )\ RUPSIS TAVERN WELCOME AGAIN Delicious Roast Beef Sandwiches Corner of Carrie & Hattie Phone: Dl 6-9771 2 or more SHIRTS ••••• 23¢ ea. PANTS-- SOc SUITS __ $1.00 Dambrose C\leaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Union Pharmacy Serving· Utrion For 34 Years SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Scheneetady Dl 6-9744 Enioy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar 600 UNION STREET FREE DELIVERY COLOGNES & AFTERSHAVE LOTIOXS FR 4-3605 .lade East - English Leathe1· - Bnti Old Spice - Canoe - That Man Briti8h Sterling ·- II mraiian Surf .Tean: Natr SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE !!OULEVARD 6 A.M.- 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere

4 I>u~h•hed \l'h ursduys during the scnooo year by the Student Body of 'L'nlon •Colle>:\e. Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Representative: National Adv.,rtislng Service, Inc.. College Publishers Representa tl\'e, 420 Madi· son A\\'\ :N. Y. C. Edilo1\1Rl OHicl!. lJld. t.J-.rm. t: 111un Col\ lee; e. lJuUllc:fl.t iun Uft'iet:-. ~dtl'lll'l·tnllJ Pnnling Conwany, UO:! BuJ~t~\vuy. I:ntert._•J' in the !::hhcneL'tall~' 'l''nst· Of· flee as Seconc.l Class ~lall J:\htHet·. SubsC'riPtion 151! a. l'opr: S:! a year t.leliyered anywhe1·e in the l'nlted to;J<::~'IOR BOARD ~dttL)t·i n-Chief .......... 13usiness ~lanage1 ....................... ::-:e\NS l·~<lilOl' JOSE!'!! .~. :.u::-::-1. Jl~. '68.. . ... 37~·41;-,; JOEL RUllE:\ZAHL. '68 ....................... Xi7-~·13U· RlCHAilDBALAG'L'R '6~ .................... 37l-7US . ALA~ Zl·I~<JLI<·:at. '6!.1.. ...................... :lll-':'H ~ ..... .\t-<~uda·lt> ,}.J;dltot CLIP.}•\' ~A:l•\'.A~E '69 .... -· .......................... :r;:!-~-7:~n ... Ft-~at.u-rt~!:l I·~dtto MICHAEL LEVlX-El?STEI::o;: '69 ................................ -· .................... S1•o~ts Ec.litot ,Jt;X.XOit BO,\.RD Itkhanl Pat·tt->:r.son. ,)t', • -;u .. . .. ........... .. ..... .. ... ... .. ... \~~odatP :\·.~\\'S -J.~ditm Dlck Daniel 'iO ............................................................................. Phutogra11he1 ''When by RICHARD BALA:GUR At the end of May, 1967, the Union College student-faculty Vietnam Committee sent a peti- tion to President Johnson .sign- ed by 54 faculty members and roughly 160 students urging an ·'immediate, extended cessation of the bombing of North Viet- . nam as an essential prerequisite to peace in Vietnam.\ The fol- lowing is the essence of the reply received from the State Department: . \For some time, the other . side has conducted a systematic :!ampaign to win an uncondi- . · donal and permanent end to · the bombing of North Vietnam · .¥ithout any corresponding re- duction of their own action. In . exchange, they have offered the Thursday, September 28, 1967 Will They Ever Learn?'' only punitive and designed to eradicate North Vietnam as a nation does not sit well with me, nor should it sit well with the nation. Honorable To say, as the administration insists, . that we are willing to negotiate \without any pre-con- ditions, at any time and place, in any forum\ is only honorable. However, to coincidentally esca• late our 'committment' ·every time peace is discussed could convince the most hopeful OP· tLmist that our words are less sincere than our actions. tions begin to formulate in one's mind unless one feels that the Communists must be <lefeated at any cost, even making a mo<!kery of the cause for which we are fighting such a cost\y battle. The recent arrest of Truong Dihn Dzu on charges of passing bad checks and illegally trans- ferring funds to the '(;J_S. might have been creditable before the election. However, in light of the strong showing made b~ Dzu, an avowed peace candidate recently named to hea.d a new opposition coalition, ()ne ques· tions whether opposition to the government is the real crime for which he was arrested. nam, recognition of the National Liberation Front, turning the (:uestion over to an international bJeace commission and being •J prepared to accept its recom- mendations. If those people who are fighting \the other wa:r\ cannot accept the usefulness of ~he fight we must ·Consider t11e :]ght lost. The United States .government has no obligation,. legal or moral, to defend the life of a regime that fails to meet any standards of legitimacy. We have no obli- ~tatie>n to fight a war involving 500,~!l0 of our men for the de- fense of a right-wing dictator- ship under the guise of a de- mocracy. Our government can- not justify our involvement on the basis of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution calling for all mea· sures necessary to defend Am· erican forces from attack. Gary P're\'t)St • 6!1 .. Neil S. ICranlt'r '7 0 Peter Drotrnan ''!:~ H t·Ht~PlH•n J.i'tnnan • ~ ll. Cat-1 Uolds:c\ntl ''i 0 . .\s:;qt-Hlte Svurls. l·~dito _____ ...... A.s:::s' t ~Innaging Editm __ .:\'atlunal AdVl'l'tising :\.l~!nageJ .. . . .. .. ~ub~t·riJltiun ~ht.nagt< . •• .•.• t ~-1 n·ulu-titm :\Iu.nagt' STAl!'F 1\lE~IBERS NEWS: Brian :Holley, Len l(agan, Carl Eng!ebnrt. :Hal Ross. Hoy Frul torman. N\'enl G-ordon. Bill Er~imnn. H.ic>hnrd Rosenberg, H:.lch Oilrnan. • mere possibility-not even the ~ertainty-of talks of an unde· · fined nature. \We cannot in conscience al· ~ow the North Vietnamese to move more men and arms into South Vietnam and see more American soldiers necessarily Kilfed and wounded. We can- not see the South Vietnamese people subjected to additicmal suffering without ·continuing to take reasonable defensive mea- oures aimed at limiting the of- fensive capabilities of the en- emy. Our obligation to our men and to the Vietnamese people demands that we take all reason- able steps to reduce the enemy's capacity to attack them. Mr. Donnelly seems to totally ignore the fundamental reason we are fighting this war in Viet- nam in his reply, namely, we are fi.ghting to preserve the freedom of the Vietnamese peo- ple to choose their own form of government, whether it be democratic, soCialist or (God forbid) Communist. We are not fighting this war to pre- serve the lives of American soldiers in Vietnam or to pun- ish the North Vietnamese for supporting the revolution pres- ently being led by the Viet- Cong; if we are to fight at all let us at least fight with every weapon available, political, dip- lomatic, economic and moral, to gain for these people a gov- ernment that is representative of the people themselves, not some power clique. E:ven more disturbing: than the political maneuverings for power was the resignation of Don if..uce, director of the In- ternational Voluntary Services. His resignation, as well as the resignations of three of the high. est o:fficials of I.V.S. and nearly 50 (o11t of 150) of its members took the form of a letter to President Johnson. They con~ denmed the war, urged a halt to the bombing of North Viet- A negotiated settlement with ' the Viet Cong and American withdrawal to let tbe Vietnam· ese settle their own affairs is imperative. An immediate, un- .1 conditional halt in the. bombing is an essential pr.erequisite to such a settlement. FEAT-t'Rl~~: ~t·ott ::-1irg1Pr. SPOUTS: Mike l{laym.,_n, Jeff Klli'Zius. Barr)· Port•t. Len Simon. False Perspective There is a sickness which infects many students on this campus, a sickness which shrivels an individual's self- esteem, and in turn, perverts his conception of those around him. The symptoms of this disease are quite simple: gross feelings of inferiority. The fact that such symptoms appear so frequently at Union is indeed distressing. It indicates that Union man are more impressed by the publicity a college receives than by its true worth. The marks of a great coll-ege are several, but rnost significant are these two: a stimulating group of teachers and a proud, vital and concerned student body . .Although Union possesses the former, it d()es not own the latter. The reasons why Union students show such naivete in assessing the institution are not always clear. :Perhaps one rea.son is the lack of coherency among the students. The fact that Union men are split into a number of groups may account f<Jr the lack of identification with the college as a whole. An inability to see one's self as a member of the entire community naturally generates a minimum of esteem and affection for the community. Reciprocity \The North Vietnamese can- not expect us to stop our mili- tary bombing while they con- tinue their military invasion. If they expect us to stop the bomb- ing, we must know what their response would be in the terms of their military effort. Some elementary reciprocity is re- quired. One half of the war cannot be- stopped. \If the other side would indi- cate a willingness to discuss the balanced reduction of military activity or the cessations of hos- tilities, or any other practical arrangements toward these ob- jectives, we are prepared to en- gage in these discussions. \However we do not consider that any action in the military field need be a pre-condition for discussions. In order to bring peace to Vietnam, we are pre- pared to engage in talks with- out any pre-conditions, at any time and place, in any forum.\ The letter was signed Dixon Donnelly, Assistant Secretary of State. The arguments used by Mr. Donnelly for the continuation of the bombing would appear to be negated by the many statements by Secretary McNamara calling the bombing of North Vietnam \of almost no value militarily.\ A continued production of new and conflicting justifications for a bombing policy that can be Not Represenative The government we now sup- port can no more be called rep- resentative of the people than the Mafia could be called repre· sentative of New York City. It is true that President Thieu was elected in what may be called a free election, if one concedes that the generals had the inalienable right to fix the ground rules, disqualify any likely candidate, set limits on what could be spent, threaten purges against those military leaders who did not get out a big vote and remove one prov- ince chief who dared to actively work for the opposition. All this, the generals felt, was necessary in addition to the built-in advantage of the incum- bents in a state where the only organized machinery belonged to the government. \Surely then, the new Senate represents the hope of the fu- ture,\ the Hawks cry. But if one looks at a Senate that is over half Catholic in a country that is only 10% Catholic one might suspect something less than representative. One also might look at the amazing high number of new Senators who held high Diem posts, a govern- ment most now agree was cor. rupt and 'had' to go; and ques- Another cause may lie in the stud~mt's tendency to ignore the college's many fine attrioutes and to stress the disagre€able aspects of his existence here. A wal');led per- spective such as this can do more damag-e to· Union's repu- tation than losing a dozen football games. For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, Tl:le reputation of this college, in fact, is not dissem- inated so much by the public relations- office as it is by the students themselves. It is the students who give the college a good part of its worth and an even greater Jlart of its reputation. Union is now a fine institution; it cannot be- come a great institution until its students decid€ to effect the change. Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Buying Power Professor Bittleman's recent suggestion, calling for a pooling of ideas and resources among several student activities, is one we hope will gain the ,support of the studetlt tax. committee. Activities which in the past found it necessary to finance a guest scholar or speakel' entirely on their own Vv-ill now be able to benefit from an. arrange- ment which will allow them to share the costs and the benefits of such visitors with several other groups. Jt is hoped that students who are interested in such a program will contribute any ideas they have in regard to a pos~ible schedule of visitors. A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 1617 Union St. MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP SiARTING OCT. 31 All Haircuts to be done by Appointment from Tues. thru · Fri. Appointments not neces- , sary Sat. 515 UNION ST. Phone 374-5770 Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 502 Broadway 377-8838 Byrds • • • Continued fx,om Page ~ thro\lgh. Although Anmrica has treated him quite shaDI:lily it is .his cou:ntry and he loves it. · ' T'Wo extremely interesting and artistically excellent albums which show that good musicians of different backgrounds can find c~mmon grounds for inspiration. Albums in 'Brief . Steve. Lac;v, The F~rest and the Zoo (ESP) - Lacy's debut on ESP Is nothmg .extraordmary. The soprano saxaphonist .and his three accompany1sts go thr()ugh the usual ayante grade meclJanics but fail to play convincingly. Pass this one up. ' J)ave :Brubeck, Bravo! :Brubeck (Columbia) - This is one of Bru- b~cJ<'s best albums, rn~inlJ; because the pianist doesn't pound the piano to death. The highlight of the album is a beautiful rendition of the Mexican ballad ''La Paloma Azl.(l.\ llenry Grimes, The Call, (ESP) - .Henry Grir)les is a superb bass player, and Perry Rol>inson on clarinet has to be heard tobe believed Together the two play some wild exciting jazz. Recommended. · FREE posterior your room! Take your pick of six colorful front-page blow-ups like this available now from your New York Times campus rep. See him to- day. And sign up for delivery of The New York Times at special low college rates. Contact: Robert Seefri.ed Beta Theta Pi 111 Thursday, S • \' \ I ~ ' ' :l ) 1 I I I Dr. Kil New lVIe Union i11 East Pakist literature. He wa fessors at .J Mo1 Free ~ ThE If eve Colga gate·~ to a • butto1 pocke sacks Marti 453 Stat F

1967 ational the being ,, recom- who war\ of t11e moral, regime obli- the de- f a de- can- on Tonkin •» mea- nd Am· with ' merican is un· .1 bombing to it is his which common on ESP three but fail Bru- the bass believed. ' · .. ... :·:::;: .4( ~:_.} ~:·-:~~t?::~:.: age to- Thursday, September 21i, 1967 5 Kilburn Aids Academy As Lecturer, Advisor Campus Notices All students interested in Professor Board, •p11e-law ad-- Govern:tn_ent Hear· s joining the Idol staff are invit- visor, is compiling a list of Un- . ed to an introductory meeting ion students who will be apply- Monday, October 2 at Hale ing to law schools. Those in\ G A w • Patric,k E. Kilb~rn. associate professor of English at Union. House at 8 p.m. The Idol, the terested may sign their names . . raves s . Itness -.c:!olle~e. wlll be the fJ.rst professor-in-residence at Williston Academy literary quarterly of Union on posters in the Social Science, Mass, ' College is accepting fiction, poe- · Humanities, or General Engi- • fD \' I try, essays, photographs, art neering buildings, or stop in the nr~·~\''n\\' 11t the school for the 1967-68 academic year is to · werk and plays at the Idol box political science office'( S.S. 21'6) tri·nntt\ to the Intellectual and academic atmosphere. He wm be in Old Gym Hall. Deadline for and leave their names and class- Clare Graves, Professor of Psy- chology, testified Monday and Tuesday before the National In- stitute of Mental Health for the Department of Health, Educa- tion and Welfare in Washington. He was also called .by the De- partment of Agriculture to tes- tify on Research Personnel. tion formed to study human needs and what to do about them. He has a Ph.D. from Western Reserve University and has recently publicized his own theory of personality develop- ment. This theory, which has received write-ups in Newsday ( L.l.) and Fortune magazine, postulates the existence of 7 levels af human behavior based on a combination of internal and external factors. humanities, advisor forthe independent study program t 19 he 67 .first issue is October :;o, es with the secretary. In addi- and will be avai:lable for •discussions with students at tion there are a limited number and at his residence. _ ___ _ : of applications for the Law School Admission Test available. New Mexican Dr. Kilb~rn recei\:ed both his A.:B. and M.A. from the University · Neyv ~exicOI and h1s Ph.D. from New York University. He came . Umon_ m 1954 and Iarer spent a Y.ear at Decca University, Dacca, East Paktstan, as Fulbnght and Smtth-Mundt lecturer m American literature. • He was producer and moderator of a television series, \Pro- fessors at Large,\ aired en WHMT-TV,. Channel 17. UNIO·N BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET Books • • • Paperback ·Classics --- .. --- Party .favors s • • Art Supplies Office Sllpplies Mother Ferro's Restaurant · ·Specializing in Italian - American Food Discount f-or Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6·9554 . ._ -·~- The Most suit a guy could want ... The Colgate by 1 115 Barrett St. i l.f ever a suit rated a c.h.eer from the IVY set, it's the great new Colgate by University Seal. Vests are \in\' for fall, and the Col· gate's got a dandy. It's reversible'~ First it matches ... then it flips to a snazzy new suede look! 1he Colgate is the traditional 3 button coat with deep hook center vent and lap seam~. Pop-up pocket tool It's all yours in 100% wool town and country hop- sacks and classic herringbones, Groo''Y autumn colors include Ma~tini Olive and Rococco Brown to name a few. FROM 5!5.00 University Seal Nationally Advertised in Look • Time • Playboy • Sports Illustrated DAVE'S I 453 State Street FR 4-9609 Open Tues. & Thurs. till 9 P.M. I THE PEAH.UT STOR,E Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmea!s from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Fc>od in Our · Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Not+ Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. ..... , .. .., ... .,. ... '' ',,.,,. FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fr~~h Daily - Twice Daily on ~ampus l.i:J:r CRAN~ $.,TREET The Pre-Law Society will sponsor on-campus interviews · with Albany and Duke Law Schools this term-dates to be announced later. For further information contact Professor Board, 463-8751, ext. 351 or Richard Brown, 393-4406. l. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or CaU fraternity Jewelers i29 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 THE ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service Is a Pleasure 509 Union Street Near Joy Street Schenectady, N. Y. . Schen~cfady, t<J: Y. l 01 6-17o3 .. ; ....................... . CHARLES OPTICIANS Graves said he couldn't com- ment on the nature of his testi- mony as he is not ·sure what phase of his work either HEW or the agriculture department is interested in. Graves is a member of the Board of Directors of a founda- : Cl.:ASSI:i=IED .· Help Wanted-Male Dean of Students, H.S. Grad Pref., No Exp. Nee., 3rd Level Person desired. Roommate '.':-T«iltt\J-1\ware per- son wanted to share apt. Write Concordiensis Box #84, Stu- dent Activities Office, leave name and phone no. Wanted-HOME FOR THREE KITTENS, 6 weeks old, shots, contact Concordiensis Box #1. For Sale-Concord port. tape recorder like new, complete with mike, etc. Conc.ordiensis Box #2. Wanted-20 parking space$,. top prices, see Davidson\ and/ or Fox house car owners. For Sale - Harley - Davidson 1200 XLCH, good mech. cond., needs body work; inq. Ellis Hosp. 1312c. Ferguson Publishes TrialPlan The Indian Institute of Pub- lic Administration in New Del- hi, India, has published a con- stitution for rural India pro- posed by Dr. Henry Ferguson, associate professor of history. Dr. Ferguson is now on leave to serve for a year as Director of the Educational Resources Center in New Delhi, which is co-sponsored by the University of the State of New Yorl;: . His proposals for rural gov- ernment are contained in a pamphlet, \A Constitution for Rural India: A Trial Plan.\ He observes that the central Indian constitution \delegated many responsibilities to the states which have failed to pass them· on to subordinate authorities.\ His draft constitution for I'Ul'al areas is designed to correct that problem, allowing \the local in- stitutions to develop- peacefully while protecting the adminis- tration ftom' the whims and passions of local politicians:\ Dr. Ferguson, a 1950 gradu- s ..,.• gl• 604 Union St. ate of Union, took his doctorate ~ 1ft 1ne For Sale-Large bridge, spans at Harvard in 1958. He also 'D~ FR 7-1283 1 took post-doctoral work in As-. ~~~~ .'--F-ra_m_e_:_re_:_:_:_pt-~e_ 0 :_:_e_sf_i~_~:_:_la_c_e_d......l.: _A.....:~~~w-~-=~-=g-~_~_:n_P __ ;E_id_~_._rt-~-a-:-~-:-t{-~~-~-· 1 _ll_~:::::~: Test yourself ... What do you see in th.e ink blotsZ [I] A Japanese judo expert 1 Just an ink spot 7 Mount Vesuvius 7 [2] Anax? A Gene Autry saddle? TOT Staplers 7 <TOT Staplers!? What in ••• ) This is a S\'\ingline Tot Stapler • (including 1000 staples) Larger size CUB Desk Stapler only $1.6~ Unconditionally guaranteed. At any stationery, variety, or book store. ~What governs you~'' • Chance? Heredity? Statistical probabilities? This doesn't have to be so. James Spencer, C.S., a member of The Christian Science Board of lectureship, says that \Spiritual law properly recognized, applied, and obeyed corrects the uncer- tainties and stresses and strains in our lives.\ How to bring this spiritual law into your experience will . be discussed by Mr. Spencer in his public lecture, \What Governs You?\ Come and bring your family. Admission is free. Christian Science lecture 3:30 P.M., Sunday, October 8 ~ __ ~ ___ ~ -- ~ . Memorial Chapel, Union College ....::::::J~ INC. LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y. 11101 under the aus}Jices of S. C. Studies Pass-Fail The Student Council has announced that ail· ele~tion will be held to fill a vacancy on the All-College CoupciL Petitions for candidates will be available October 2 and due October 9. If there are more than two petitioners a primary will be held October 11. The election will take place, in any case, on October 12. Jim Rubenstein, Tax Committee chairman reported that last year's Spring Weekend made a profit of $2370.64. Half of this went to the Tax Committee and a quarter each to the Classes of '67 and '68. Anyone interested in assisting the Lecture and Concert Com- mittee should contact Mr. John P. Terry in Bailey Hall. Of interest to all students will be the results of the study that Winner, former candidate for President of Student Council, is now undertaking to study the pass-fail system. · New ROTC Head Fitzhugh Lee Turner III, a senior at Union College, has been named Air Force ROTC corps cammander for the 1967- 68 acadameic year. Lt. Col. Charles J. O'Bier, pro- fessor of aerospace studies at the college, said that Cadet Maj. Turner's selection was based upon his \outstanding ! leadership ability and official potential.\ 1 · In addition to his position as 'corps commander,- Turner will take part in the Air Force's flight instruction program. Upon completion of the program, and a Federal Aviation Agency examination, he will receive a private pilot's license. Freshman are reminded that they should consult with their advisors prior to Friday, October 13th, to choose Winter anC. Spring Term Courses. There will be a meeting for all freshmen interested in rush- ing fraternities at 8:00 P. M. Thursday, September 21 in Me- morial Chapel. 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl . •uawsa1as JE>td131S J.O.t a awooaq ptnoqs noa : SJatdiQS J.OJ. •taopw -a-n a.1,no.l: :atppl!S JO:nnv ot.~on v i\\\'l no.\: JadW9l hlSilU 11 lDI{M :Ke UV' '~ IUOJl ·liU!~IlWf uu llllJM. •.&:oq :sn!A.nsaA lunow 'I'B\H\BJd al,no£ qods >JUf aq,t ·spuaq u~o~.o Jno.t U!·SBUJ'll 9'!11l no,t :padxa opnf esaullduf a 999 no.t JI ·1 :s~3A\SNV First Church of Cill'ist, Scientist . 32 AMF Bowling Lanes Schenectady Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M. SNACK ·BAR ON PREMISES

SKIDMORE CALENDAR Page 3 Concord y ,.Sports GOVERNMENT REPLY Page 4 Soph-Studded Attack Clicks; Wesleyan Succumbs, 19-7 Continued from Page 1 Captain Sam Dill leads the defensive charge from left end. He should continue to terronze opposing quarterbacks as he did last year. In the scnmmage w1th Cortland, Dill got to their passer seven times to sp1ll h1m for big losses. John Burt<>n, a sophomore, had been runnmg first at the other defensive end, but sustamed. a leg injury whlCh has not cume around as ex- pected. l1 he is not ready, another soph, Frank Felts, will fill in. Comp1et1ng. the front four are tackles Tom Oberst, a Junwr, and either Bill Dwyer or Andy Andersen, both sophomores. ' ' i: ' Improved Booters ,Optitnistic; Face Hartford Here Wedhesday ~_, Harriers Reb~ild; Frosh Promising By GARY PREVOST \Better than any ,soccer team on which I played at Union'' was the comment: ... of Carnet coach Gary Brown when asked\ to ·~ sLe up :his 1967 team. Brown played var- sity soccer three years at Union, 1962-64, and was captain in his senior year. As is .;, . the case of the 1967 Garnet gridders, sophs play an important role filling three starting roles. ' I) . 1f Large Turnout - 97 - ·,Gra ·Bla4 Sol'l. By A 300-ll woald be Jt a pr' psycho log accepted 1 Junior Ron .lVIcAvoy wiU be lett linebacker, with Vito Potenza, a junior, and Skip Lynch, a soph, at middle linebackers. John .Uufiy, also a soph, had been at right linebacker, but pinched a nerve against Wesleyan. lns1de track in filling Duffy's S];)(Jt goes to sophomore Fran Piscitel:li, formerly working out as a deep back. Others with a shot at the job arc Tony Calandra, Fred Schrull, and Don Duncan. The 1967 Cross Country season looks to be a challenging one for the Garnet varsity squad, while the freshmen may post one of the finest records in many years. Coach 'Milfred Ketz sees the year as one of \rebuilding\ for the varsity harriers. The task will be further complicated by the growing strength of the other teams in the league. Vermont continues to be the power- house, while Alfred, R.P.I., Hamilton have im- proved over past years. Forty candidates reported for the first practice vD session on September 18, and the squad has now been cut to 28. 'fhe large turnout has given the team depth at all positions which Brown said ·• Education l Secondary Key Completing the Garnet 4-4-3 defense will be sophomor~ deep backs tlteve Bauer, Steve Ciesin- skl·, and Dave Gray. The secondary may be the key to Saturday's encounter with St. Lawrence, as the Larries should go to the air often as they did against Bates. Though inexperienced, Gray, Bauer, and Ciesinski looked good against Cortland and Wesleyan, and should have plenty of help from a good pass rush led by Dill. A Garnet victory over St. Lawrence could be the start of the finest season in a decade. A powerful show Saturday would prove that they have the stuff to defeat at least Rochester, RPI, Hobart, and Hamilton, and at least a fighting chance with perenniel toughies Kings Point, Al· fred, and Williams. Bowling League Formed A Capital District collegiate bowling league was formed Monday at a meeting of the repre- sentatives, of four area schools held in the R.P.I. Student Union. Bob Erianne and Gary Prevost represented Mr. Ketz at the meeting. The four schools who will pe defenitely rolling when the league begins action in Monday, October 23 at R.P.I. are Union, R.PJ., Siena, and Hudson Val- ley. Albany State has been invited to enter and will probably do so in the near future. The league will use the new eight lanes of the R.P.I. Student Center. All the schools will be competing on the non- varsity; club level. The five man team at Union will ile cbos.en from the Union College Bowling Club which is. a part of the Dutch Classic League. , The Capital District League was discontinued in ·1962 and bowling at Union was not revived until the Dutch Classic League was formed in 1964, followed by the Union College Bowling Club in 1965. Garnet tries for a big gain. lntramurals The intramural football schedule for this week is as follows: · Sept. 29- D Chi vs. Phi Delta Theta D U vs. K A 1 l : Beta vs. Theta Delta Chi Oct. 3- Sig Chi vs. Phi Sig Delta Sig Phi vs. D Phi Independents vs. Phi Ep Phi Sig Kappa vs. Fiji Oct. 4- Psi U vs. D Chi Chi Psi vs. Phi Delta Theta D U vs. Theta Delta Chi K A vs. Beta Announcements Bowling The. Dutcll Classic Bowling League will hold its first practice session tonight at Boulevard Bowl at 9:00. All new bowlers and those from last year are requested to attend. Starting on October 3, the league will roll on Tuesdays. Swimming The varsity and freshman swimming teams will hold their first meeting Monday, October 2. 'I'he varsity will meet at 7:00, while the frosh will meet at 7:30. All those who want to swim this winter are required to attend. The freshmen, on the other hand, may surprise many this fall. Coach Ketz terms the team \the best freshman club in some time.\ After only four days of practice, the top prospects seem to be Joseph Burgess, John Braham, and William Walker. The first real test will come in the timed speed trials, scheduled for tomorrow after- noon. Coach Ketz hopes all three can break the sixteen-minutes mark for the three-mile course. He feels that any runner doing so is an \out- standing prospect.\ Only once last year did any freshman better seventeen minutes, but there is a distinct possibility the sild:een-minute barrier may fall to all three Friday. Five Good Runners Needed Unlike other sports, the lowest score wins in cross country. The place in which the first five runners finish are totalled, with the sum repre- senting the team score. Thus for any success, a harrier squad must have at least five good runners. The \scorers\ for the varsity look to he Pete Ericson, Carl Thumm, Je£f Lansing, Allan Sessoms, and Myron Fribusb. Coach Ketz also feels Ron Ruhl bas a strong chance of making the top five. Rounding out the team are Tom Grieb, Dave Uguccioni, Charles Evans, and Robert Bruhn. Quite a battle is shaping up .among the frosh for \sco1·er\ honors. Fighting it out for what look to be the two remaining positions are Leo Wisniewski, Steve Basseli Richard Copperwasser, :viario Fischetti, Lee Stee e, and William Dawson. As of this writing, Copperwasser and Bassel have the upper hand. Open with Clarkson ' The harriers open their season on October 10 and 11. The frosh will begin with a meet at the Lenox Academy, while the varsity will open at Clarkson the following afternoon. In the mean· time, Coach Ketz will work his team into shape with a daily schedule of five to ten miles. Soccer CROSS - COUNTRY SCHEDULE RITZ REST AU RANT was :badly lacking in his years at Union Like 1 1 • last year it appears that· defense will be the vJ Garnet's stro_n~ point, but u~like last year, when\ I. th~ te,a!ll' fm1shed 2-8·1 s1mply because they cJu.dn;t: score goals, the offense shows promise. a ·~ I Heads Attack Unit Heading the attack unit is right inside Robert , Okello, who has toured with the Uganda .national team. O~ell~, a sophomore, has been plfi'ticularly 1mpress1ve m pre-season workouts. Completing ~he ,front line. are s.enior left inside Tijan Sallah, JUmor left wmg M1ke Solomon, and senior right ~ wing captain, Ting Pa.u Oei. Backing up these four ar~ D~ve Barton and Dave Pittinos. The second bne IS made up of senior Bob Seefried at left halfback, junior Jim Wilson at right half \ and soph :Brian Gillie at center half. Backing up .I at halfback will be junior Walt Hutton and soph· omores Art Munkenback and Andy Sherman. t' Depth in Defense Veteran Larry McFarlane will play one fullback spot while senior Pat Nelligan and sophomore ~ Pete Palen bold down the other two spots. Re- serve fullbacks are headed by sophomore Bob MacKenzie and junior Don Plenty. Senior Ben Volinski is the starting goalie, but he is hard • pressed by two sophomores, Chris Cartsonas and · Craig Barger. . ~ Vanqu1sh State 4-0 • ~~r The team was impressive Monday in a scrim· '! mage against Albany State as the .starting unit ran up a 4-0 lead. The Garnet opens the regular . season Wednesday when they face Hartford on ' ' Daley Field at 3:00. · · WE'RE GLAD YOU'RE BACK Schedule Oct. 11 at Clarkson 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring MOFFETT'S LIQUOR STORE Oct. 4 Hartford 10 at Trinity 13 at St. Lawrence 14 at Clarkson 17 Hamilton 19 Middlebury 21 at R.P.l. 25 Hobart 27 at Rochester 28 at Alfred ' RELAX! PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE-~ 167 Jay Street Special Price For College Students Ladies Free Accompanied by Gentleman Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. Oct. 17 Vermont Oct. 21 at R.P.I. Oct. 26 Trinity Nov. 1 Hamilton Nov. 4 NYS Champs at Lemoyne Nov. 20 IC4A Van Cortland Park- N.Y.C. ----- DAR I TREET RESTAURANT 2049 Van Vranken Ave CHAR-BROUED STEAK DINNER $1.50 BEEFBURGER PLATTER $1.10 w/Fr. Fries & Vegetable FR 7-4261 PHONE: 393-6692 for RESERVATIONS HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering 1'o Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Servihg Scl1enectad-y Over 30 Years Open Doily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. there's one place that does it ! • Watch Repairs • Rings Sized • Diamonds Reset • Engraving • Jewelry Repaired • Pearl & Bead Stringing ,. W 0 R-K D O·N E 0 N 1 HE PRE M I 5 E 5 ,' . -TAlV nwuv IJl'AI. COMPANY 315 State Street. Schen~ctady FR 4·8219 It's Not Too Soon • • to pian a head for those BIG Weekends! We're conveniently located - \Just around the corner\ Scihenectady Ja~vEfooGF 7.59 State Street Schenectady, N. Y, _,.: 1505 Van Vranken Ave. Ambrosia for All Occasions Your Closest Friend-Next to Mohawk Bank The Superior year, we submit, for shirt fanciers. In addition to the good solid colourings, an ever~· widening selection of stripes is to be seen. Lay in a taste• ful drawer or more, very soon. J ~quir:e ~qnp 1;: 326 $TATE ST. PH. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 't;l 9 Co Graves, charged ' the torm1 i:u Washh over to a group\ fc complete ic commt within a w<Juld no· and woul invitation He rna< ternative developm< the differ sary to c what rna, ar-ound bi ved. G Later l leading cc panies in mit what ness oppo today.: to velop his man. Busi tb.is, he f1 come by the proble and politi While i consumatE new foun research i tion will c Ha Cit b~ .A Harv American than intel the prima tempts to underprivi ln a s:r: Sehenectac chairman, Relations person's '' important life than his existen 'I'he SPE rent Arne change a sending h: giving hin with both underprivi change h: considers : and contin very iow problem t domestic l urban ren< for under- 'I'he pro research VI In two sm; had little i ed \think with ·high-~ who enjc which ent; A few was admiJ found to 1 In a stagm where all place the strong nyl tinued to live on c squanderec

