---- , ~:n which ment: ... of asked\' to •t ' yed var- 1962-64, ~r. As is I} I •. ?;ridders, ng three I) .. ;t practice ,a · • l has now \ given the :own said 1 lion. Like ,, 1• ll be the 1 ear, when j mse they ; promise. · ./) ;I.. de Robert , a national ftticularly ~ompleting an Sallah, nior right 11 up these · :inos. The :eefried at right half <>~ acking up and soph- erman. 1e fullback . ;ophomore ~ • spots. Re- . J. more Bob enior Ben · 1e is hard , · ~ \\\\' and ' t n a scrim- lrting unit he regular ' artford on rATE ST. 77-3061 ~hurs. 't;l 9 SKIDMORE CALENDAR Page 5 . 97- No.3 '-.:: • L Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1967 ATHLETICA Page& PRICE 15 CENTS Graves Holds Black Pride Solves Riots COmmittees Chart Future of College; Co-Ed, Graduate School Recommended By RICHARD RALAGUR. A 300-acre \Black Fower\ enclave wou.ld be created in Washington,. D.C., 1t a proposal made Tuesqay by psychology professor Clare Graves is accepted by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Constructive Slack Power Graves, a member of the panel charged with developing a plan for the iormer National 'Irain:ing School i:n Washington, proposed it be turned over to a \constructive Black Power group\ for- aevelopment as . either a complete political, social and econom- ic community or as a municipality within a municipality. White men w<>uld not be privileged in this area 11,nd would be permitted in only by invitation. · He made this proposal as an al~ ternative to two \conventional\ ghetto development plans. lie also discussed the different types of planning neces- sary to cope with urban riots and what may have to be done to get around bureaucratic traditions invol- ved. Greatest Opportunity Later he met with some of the leading corporate executives of com· panies in the United States to trans· mit what he calls the greatest busi- ness opportunity in the United States today: to finance the Negro to de- velop his own life without the white man. Business should give thought to this, he feels, rather than for this to come by government direction with the problems of bureaucratic red tape and political problems. While in Washington Graves also consumated the establishment of a new foundation for the support of research in human needs. The founda- tion will support a group of non- Continued on Page 3 By 'RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. AJUong the most outstanding of the pr()posals and recommendatwns set :tortn 'bY two reports to the tacutty and trustees on the future of the col· lege, ar-e those caHmg tor more \prac- ti~cu- G01uJ;1. ~u. courses a ··.:S-5'' pat· tern whereby a student would earn h1s bachelors degree in three years and his masters 1n five, gradttate pro- grams eventually leadmg to a Ph.D. aegree, and' a co-educatwnal Union. '.t·Jrese recommendations are the pu:tttuct ·or two tacmty committees WJtlcn ruet aunng the summer. The summer ~ornuuttees developed their c~ e~:urnmenaat,ons rrom the undmgs .of m~ aa noc committee to exatnme 111¢ ro1e ot tne college, headed by l\'~OI. .Joseph .tS. Hoard, which com- pwte<il us vvorH: last sprmg. 111~ ~um1ue.r comm1ltees sugges• twns, reso,u~,ons and proposals are con'Ltunl:la m two reports tn the Union 1a~u.1.J' 1e1t:i:ISed last month. Since coming to Union, President Martin has made it very clear that he Is very concerned about the future of the college. In a letter to the :!acuity prmted With the reports, he discussed the reasons for his concern and the general duechon he thinks the college must take in the future. Chanses Imminent \Swift changes in the educational climate\ threaten the survivaL of the small, private, undergraduate college umess they have \unusually great\ resorrrces. \Our future\ the president said, \lies With bold decisi<m\ in a clearLy distinctive role in education. This will involve \substantial change\ in our graduate and ltndergradute curricula. In his letter, the president pointed to the large and growing .stake that the public has in higher education today~ Proport10nately more stu.dents than ever before are attending public institutions of higher learning. \Pub· lie institutions cannot avoid giantism; . . . they- cannot achieve and main· tain 1eady flexibility . , . at least they Harvard Psychologist Cites ~Need To~ Achieve by JOE MANN, JR. A Harvard psychologist cited the American appeal to material rather than intellectual needs Thursday as the primary cattse of ineffectual at- tempts to improve conditions among underprivileged people. ln a speech at Union College in Schenectady, David C. McClelland! chairman of the Department of Socia Relations at Harvar<l 1 stated that a person's \need to acnieve\ is more important in determining suc:!cess in life than the material conditions of his existence. Negro Grim 'Ihe speaker pointed to the cur- rent American belief that one can change a poor Negro's behavior by sending him to a better school and giving him improved housing. Even with both of these advantages 1 an underprivileged Negro usually fa1ls to change his grim outlook on life, considers success far beond his reach and continues to sustain himself at a very iow level, he said. This is the problem that has continually faced domestic poverty programs, such as urban renewal, and foreign aid plans for under-developed nations. Indian Research 'l'he professor cited e~amples from research work he conducted in India. In two small villages. wh<Jse residents had little initiative, people were train- ed \think talk and act like p.eople. with ·high-achievement motivation . . . who enjoy .challenging situations which entailed some degree of risk.\ A few years after tbe \course\ was administered the Indians were found to have doubled .their activity. In a stagnant fishing village, however, where all that was done was to re• place the ntaives' flimsy nets with str<Jng nylon nets, tlle villagers .con· tinued to catch only enough fish to live on or, if they caught more, squandered the profit on scotch. Photo by Dick Daniel DaYid C. McCiella nd, chairman of the department of social relations at Harvard, speaking at opening convocation 'l'he first pro gram had not \trans- formed\ the nature of these people; ratb.e~, McClelland said, \it had crea- ted a. sense of self-reliance\ among tb.em, The critical issue in these cases was the idea of motivation: \It is not what you have but what you believe.\ Seose_ of Efficacy The speaker described his work among poor Negroes in Washington, D.C., as· an .effort to \cause a revalu- ation in spirit a sense of efficacy.\ In Washington, Negro -businessmen did n()t trust each other and preferred to do business with whites, .he said, an attitude similar to that of the businessmen in the Indian villages. McClelland called the bla<:k power movement \a poor attempt at rising pride'\ among American Negroes. have not in tlle past shown much capacity to do so. The independent institution can control its size, select its committments, 1,1nd when necessary, shift ground,\ he .said. More Inventive Private colleges and universities have not in tbe past distinguished themselves by ~h.<Jwing any more in- ventiveness than public ones. Now, however, they have no choice but to do so if they are to attract excellent faculty and students, and he \aca- All this implies change, and change is expensive, but as the president points out, one could argue that the fllilure .to change is more expensive. Change has become evidence ,of vi- tality to many Americans, and if the college hopes to \keep its cup rea- sonably full\ said the president, \it will have to show its importance and particular value or donors will' give their money to others that do so.\ Financing is now becoming largely dependent upon distinction. The Pres- ident declared that \. . . if we know clearly what we want to do and if A college in transition? Recommendations from faculty committees may predict a new and unique image for old Union. demically valuable\ to the country. \We will best insure the future of Union College by making the distinc- tion between a private and a public institution as strong as possible\ in ways pertaining to curriculum and the \teacher-learning process\ the president said. \Our role should be not that of a supplement to public higher education, but of an alterna- .. tive to it in program and method and spirit.\ Excellent Faculty and students find today's private universities no less popular than before. These students and professors naturally go where the intellectual vigor is the greatest. In order to be \markedly better\ ten years from now. Union must be able to develop the kind of intellectual en- vironment which will continue to at- tract students and faculty of the level to which she aspires. what we want to do really responds to the needs of our time, the money will become available to do it. History is over-whelmingly on our side.\ More Variety In regard to future students, the president observed that \selective col- leges now realize . . . they may change the criteria :for admission to some good effect but they will not appre- ciably increase the quality of candi- dates.\ Our admissions experts have concluded that concerning our aver- age board scores, we have reached a \plateau\. It is considered a dis- advantage that only thirty-five per- .. cent of the students come from out of state. If we are to improve the quality of our student body· by im- proving its variety, we must, accord- ing to the president, \earn a wider reputation for doing the kind of things Frosh To Choose Meals At Frats Revised rushing l'\lles announced by IFC President Richard Amesbury will permit Freshman to indicate their interest in fraternities and be invited to meals at those houses as a result of their submitting meal preference cards. This system abolishes the old ten stamp· practice of the IFC which Amesbury termed useless. Under this system Freshmen had to have rush- ing cards stamped by ten houses but common practice was to wait until the last night possible when stamping meant little to all. Advantage The present system has the ad- vantage of perrnttting Freshmen to indicate to a h()use they are inter- ested in it and the house can find out which Freshmen are definitely interested in their house. The following are the revised rush- ing rules as stated by Dick Ames- bury: One meal preference card and one final bid pref~i'ence card will be brought by each freshman wishing to participate in fhei rushing program. On the dates list~d in the rushing calendar the me;i:l preference card will be submitted with a list of six of two meals, the <:ard will be stamp- frater-nities. Upon matching to one house each card will be stamp- ed and returned to the freshman. Each house will receive a list of those freshman matched to them. Assigned Meals Each freshman may attend only one of the assigned meals at any one house. However, these assigned dates are not the only time at which fresh- men are allowed to attend meals at houses. Fresh·men are not required to attend all four of the scheduled meals. The final bid .preference card will be given to the freshmen at the same time as the meal preference card is returned to them for their final,. .as- signed meal. . POFFEE HOUR There will be Open House. Coffee Hours for students on the first Wed- · · nesday of each month in the faculty lounge in the Social Sciences Build- ing beginning October 4, and the third Wednesday of each month in the H11manities Building beginning Octo~ ber 18, from 3:00 to 4:30 p.m. Stu- dents are cordially invited to drop ; bY and join the faculty in conver- . sation and. the enjoyment of. a cup of cof.fee or tea. that will attract a more variegated population to us.\ Statistics now indic~te . that ten years from now the :lumber of faculty available of the quality· required here will not be much higher than it is now. By constantly searching,· the college should be able .to · find the professors it needs. But that success ''will depend not only on persisteace but on the promise of rich academic fare it can offer t& candidates.\ In the fierce competition likely to occur in the future, \the more depth and variety we can offer, the more at- tractive we shjlll be to the faculty candidates deciding between Union and som eother institution,\ the presi- dent said. . Liberal Education Commenting directly on the reports, the president noted that they \dis- played a clear awareness that liberal education . . . is most likely to be achieved by capitalizing on what the students feel to be of primary rele- vance to their lives.\ The reports, to be described in greater detail in later ~icles in this series, seem to reflect m greater detail in later articles in this series, seem to reflect a genuine attempt by the faculty and adminis- tration to discover \what the students feel to be of primary relevance to their lives,\ and to capitalize on them .. ., Consider Grad Studies It was about this time last year Dr. Martin's concern for the future of Union took the shape of a trustee· committee headed by Dr. Ralph Ben- nett. The committee, which included a Dean of Princeton, the Provost of Haverford, a representative of the State Education Department, a Union alumnus and others, began to consider the future of the college with regard to graduate studies. Last spring, a COir!ffiittee of ten faculty members, chaired by Prof. Board, concerned themselves to the same question. <Continued on Page \3) Cornell Deb·ate·!r I ·Parental R.ole · • • J ; In Student Life ..,_. I Cornell University may soon abolish its policy of \in loco parentis\ and the1 eby no longer assume the re-i sponsibility for its students who get' in trouble with the law. Cornell's reversal of policy, as stated in the October 2 issue of The New York Times reveals that Cornell m1ght not \baby-it\ for its stu- d.ents. Previously if a student were arrested for flagrant drunkene!!S or some other minor infraction of the law he would be turned over to the· university for punishment. The uni- versity would then pay the student's bail or secure his release on personal recognizance. Under Cornell's new policy the student would be treated like an adult and therefor<> will be directly responsible for his conduct. Collese Provides Dean of Students Edward Pollock stated what Union's policy is concern- ing the college's responsibility for its stu.dents. According .to the Dean, cur- rent . Union policy provides for \in loco parentis\. In other words, Union College assumes the responsibility for being the parent of each of its stu-• dents. Because Union is a completely residential college Dean Pollock finds/ \in loco parentis\ a necessity. Thel Union policy follows Cornell's previ 1 ous policy almost to the letter. Im most instances the student in troubld with the law is immediately turned over to the college officials and is not subject to arrest. · According to Pollock this practice has been satisfactory to both parents and students in the past and there- fore no change is necessary in the . im.mediate future. Pollock, will, how- ever, suggest to the All College Coun- cil that Union's attitude toward off. campus students be re-examined and that these. students be made more aware of Union's position of respon- sibility for its students.

Thursday, October 5, 1'~67 2 r/J'rl r}ufe& :Je;fA,. \ t Thursda~ Gr Feiffer I D600V~6 Uu1e- ~TlOtJ 1\S MeAtJ· ftJ6L.tSS- r I~OU~G[ *~p rY~u~tL1r.A HeertNG ·· c establish1 the more r APVOCAT6 BVR~UJG T:R6 CITte\5- f 1R<t TO B126AK' OP TflG\ P6AC£ HOVrf- ' lr:;'! IT l •VfV - A~D l{OU CAL-~ A MGBT- !I K)G TO OJ5CVSS rr. / ?·o \ \ J ltv Ak)n- st:tvtlrts:H- / ' ,, ,, ( GI\aves politan S ~the task· the f()rn tute for area de11 • effective] ghetto c fie pr• velopmer 4: posed re ghetto r tioning ' ex:presse• The fi1 be a wei housing (planned environrr ghetto PE lishamo .,the 300 : the care and whit \In m •did not ------~~----~~---------_j~~--_1~--------~--~~~~~~~~~~~~ G Ch A t 1 possible. A working roup arts c ton Camp· us An. nounc·em·en, -t:s knowledge of German is needed. I l!. The All College Council will '' hold its first meeting ()f t'he 1967-1968 academic year at t:he \Put massive prt>ssure on the members of the All College Council.\ The Pozo Singers will be pre- Correction: It was erroneous- sented in concert at Gibbons ly reported in last week's Con- Hall, Sienna College on October cordiensis news story that the 14 at 8:30 P.M. They are being college would send reports of presented by the Student Sen· student progress to local draft ate of St. Rose College. boards at the end of each term. Scienee Students who· will complete their sophomore year in .June of 1968 and five year engineering_ students who will complete their sophomore or j1.mior year in June, 1968 and who might be interested in spending a year at the E.T.H. in Zurich, Switzerland (the \junior year abroad\) should contact Prof. Schick as soon as 'We've just begun to move. There's a long way to go.\ These were some of the sentiments expressed on Thursday evening, September 28 in the Hale H oase Student Lounge by ·the forty people who attended the first m•ting of the Union College Campus Committee. The committee is t loosely organized .gr()up of students and teachers with the sa1ne b'asic desire to improve con- ditions ()n and off the Union College Campus. More than a discussion group, the committee is an action group. Tickets are $3 for reserved Actually, these reports are sent seats and $2 for general ad- by the college at the beginning mission. Tickets may be pur- of each academic year. chased at the Van Curler Book· For Sale-One ramjet. Call Among the most pressing issues facing the college student are the Vietnam War and the draft. Eac11. individual may have his own opinion how this should come ab()ut, but the general consensus was that descalation should begin as S()On as possible. store, the Sienna and St. Rose Hoadley House, ask for Rog- bookstores and at the door. 1 ====~=:::;;;~==~~===========:::=:j -~ Robert Thurber informed the students that he is available to help them in matters concerning thei.J: <!raft status. Mark Reubins has information for any student wh() might consider moving to Canada to avoid the draft. Professor William Bristol and Dr. Cllris· topher Fried are also available for counseling. In the Schenectady area, the Upward Bound project and the poverty program would like the aid. ·Of students interested in social work in the community. Jeff DeMunn made an appeal for interested students to contact Mr. John Terry in Bailey Hall. Five institutions of higher learning in the Capital District of New York will sponsor a Seminar on China, November 10 and 11, for interested stud- ents and faculty members. One of the major gripes of the students attending the meeting is their lack of an advisory voice in the .policy ml).king of the administration when the student body is greatly affected. Students reactions to policies are too late afte1 the change has already been instituted. Interested students may contact the committee through. the The seminar will be conducted under the auspices of the Joint Committee on Non- western Studies, establishing three years ago by the cooperating institu- tions. Four speakers of special competence in Chinese studies will participate. For further information stud- Concordy or by contacting one of the folbwing students: Bob Thurber 372-8354, Al Ziegler or Rjch Balagur at 374-7418 ents should contact Professor Thurston of the History Dept. .. ~ EVELYN WOIID READING DYNAMICS GRADUATES OVER 350,000 This revolutionary reat:lin·g course starting its 9th year is now available at the Unio11 College Campus to students and faculty Senators, Ed uca +ors 1 Business Leaders Praise Results Our Average Student Reads 4.7 Times Faster Than His Starti_ng Speed WITH EQU~L OR BETTER COMPREHENSION The internationally famous EVELYN WOOD Reading Dynamics Institute INVITES YOU TO ATTff>./D A FREE DEMONSTRATION OF THIS UNIQUE METHOD WHERE YOU WILL SEE AN AMAZING DOCUMENTED Flrt.\ ABOUT READING DYNAMICS LEARN HOW READING DYNAMICS CAN HELP YOU TO FASTER READING, IMPR()VED COMPREHENSION, GREATER RETENTION. FREE DEMONSTRATIONS FREE DEMONSTRATIONS WILl. BE HELD AT Tuesday, Oct. 10- Ecailey Hall Room 201 - 3:30 P.M. & 7 P.M. For .further Information, write to READING DYNAMICS INSTITUTE TEN EYCK HOTEl,., ALBANY, N. Y. or call 462•5408 ENJOY HERSH BEVERAGES A complete line of Mixers and Flavors. Servicing Union for many-many years. Call FR 4-3304 for prompt delivery. HERSH BEVERAGE CO. 309 UNION STREET RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vrankert Avenue Featuring . - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS STEAKS CHOPS, SEAFOODS . ' , Catering To Small & Large Parties Pi:z:za & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady OYer 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to :3 A.M. \For three Generations.' Those Who Know •.. Have been .. ecommending ~ HERSIUL MAURICE B. WALlER '\3 Union Graduates in .Graubarf Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GQOD JEWELRY home of Dean Lockw()od :Mon- day, October 9. The dinner ' meeting will begin at six o!cl()ck and will be closed to students. James Spencer, C.S., of Miami, Florida, will speak from the ' Christian Science point of view in a public lecture here Sunday, October 8. \What Governs You?\ is the · title of his lecture. It -will be given at 3:30 P.M. in Menorial Chapel, Union College. First Church of Christ, Scientist, of Schenectady, is the sponsor; ad- mission is free and open tc the public. S\'ingliae at;~ Test yourself... What do you see in the in~ bl~>ts\! [1] A sizzling steak? Ten dan.c:ers? A rabbit? [2] A lantern? A moth? TOT Staplers 1 ' • Clare \II · chology to l.\ecog 4: mass of want n< The gre for the man th: • jerk, a: suggestE rough, group ~ • develop '\The ., rate exi .an opp1 can ·do not.\ TJ cording e design needs, i tutions. \This c an inte~ \Wear' ing totl t The I various plan. i' .J' 4. I I Grave ment oi postulat enee. A by the I , t in, The (TOT Staplers 11 What -io..:, .) . 1 t· This is a ··~ ·) ' ·s~inglifte Tot Stapler ~ ( ~\\'~·· .•• Cal t (including 100() staples) ! Larger size CVS Desk 1 L Stapler only $1;69 I 1 Unconditionally guato.:nteed. At any stationery, variety, or UO(lk ste>re. _s~INC;t LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y.ll10t •paz!uel!Jo .tu~s 'o~ auo paau noll.: SlaldBlS 1 t ,tO.L ·~ql!Hf a.r,no.A, auow \V I~DJUXOo eJu tt•HP!l eq,L 'lnu.r '..l:p!!a.IJU .p.:aoG-q 9 .M ltua~UeJ \¢ \& '0~1! lJUO( OSOQ!) JG'Ef!O:I\( dn uaA!:ll aAuq p1noqs no.t ldn lAO<£) :;1qq~1 V nootps lJ.l:l!'l Uf 'll\W MGN aq'J. pa'Ju:nu no..l: ~apuoh'\ o.ti[ :s.:raouup ua.r,. ·~alp _ U· llO f. o3 :lJVEilS &qle&a no& II 'I ISli:ill\SNV Wiler s - 112 EnjcY

working is needed. 'I 1/ ,, ( Thursday, October 5, 1967 Gra'Ves. • • Continued from Page 1 establishment thinkers, \those who are the more far-out humanistic thinkers.\ Area Demonstration Graves's panel, part of the Metro- pelitan Studies Division of HEW, has • the task· of .proposing what to do with the former National Training Insti- tute for delinquents. It is to be an area demonstration of how to more .effectively approach the problem of ghetto conditions in this country. fie presented his plan for the de- velopment of the area after ques- t posed really meet the needs of the ghetto residents as they are being tioning \whether the two plans pro- ex:pressed today.\ 11 First Pions The first of the HEW plans would be a well devised and planned model housing development that would be ~planned in terms of the total social environment to meet the needs of the ghetto people. The other would estab- lish a model community center beyond ., the 300 acre area as a laboratory for the careful integration of Negroes and white$. \In my judgment these proposals • did not face the problem. They fail I) C· - I will 1 > • of the at the NOOd J\1011- dinner ' six o!cl()ek of Miarni, from t:he 1 of view Sunday, is the · It -will be Menorial Fi.:rst cientist, of ponsor; ad- t() the ••• e inli: bl<>ts'2 dancers? Wltat -in. ••• ) \ J. a ·-,:~ Photo by Rich Kramer , Clare W. Graves, Professor of Psy- . chology to recognize that as far as the large < mass of Negroes are concerned they want no part of white mans' hel)>. The greatest need we face today is for the Negro to prove to the white man that he (the white man) is a • jerk, an utter fool.\ Graves then suggested that the panel take a rough, tough, nasty Negro power group and give them the power to • develop it in whatever way they want Seperate Existence \The Negroes are seeking a sepa- \ rate existence at this time and want .an opportunity to prove what they can do and what the white man can· not.\ This would be their world, ac- cording to Graves, .. and they would e design the commnnity to suit their needs, from schools to political insti- tutions. \This is a necessary step to achieve c an integrated society,\ Graves states. \We are ahead of ourselves in push- ing total integration. ' t Investigating The panel is now investigating the various proposals including Graves' plan. · G·raves is noted fo:r l'I~S develop: ment of a theory of human behavior postulating six levels of' human exist- ence. All acts are then, motivated by by the conditions of existence he is in. The theory suggests that every THE ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service Is a Pleasure IRC Speaker Hints U.N. Admit China by STEVE WALL . United Nations correspondent Dr. Jagindra Kumar Banerji spoke in favor of. Communi~t Chinese admission to the United Nations at a recent international Relations Ctub meeting. A lively question and answer session between cmb members and Dr, Banerji followed the address. In discussing the controversial topic of Communist China's admission to the Unite~ Nations, Dr. Bane~ji pointed out that the qnestion can be approache~ m twa ways. These mclude a procedural view (judging the ~atter stnctly by the rules set down in the UN Charter) and a substantive VIew (concerned with the moral or .po'litical aspects of the question) Althoug~ Dr. Ben,erji denied attemptin::5 te influence the opinion of anyone m the audience, he presented many forceful arguments in favor of the admission of Communist Cllina to the United Nations. Held Attention . The speaker had such a!l obvious en~husiasm and knowledge of his subject t~at :he held. the audtence's attention throughout his address and the quesb~nmg penod. Presently .emp~oyed by two Indian newspapers, D!. Bener]I has lec~l!red at the. Umvers1ty of Calcutta and the University of London. ln additiOn, he wnte the section on the Asian press in the latest edition of the Encyclopedia Brittanica. Banerji was the fir,st in a se~ies of speakers to be sponsored on campus by the In~ernat1onal Relatwns Club. The next speaker will be Davtd Lenefsky, Will speak on \The UN & Disarmament.\ The meeting will take place at 7:30 October 26 in Hale House. Anyone interested is invited to attend. ' Fulbright .. Hays Awards Ava:ilable For Research in Creative Arts The competition for United States Government ,grants for graduate study or research, or for study and pro- fessional training in the creative and performing arts abroad in 1968,69, is nearing a close. Availability The awards are available under the Fulbright-Hayes Act as part of the educational and cultural exchange program of the U. S. Department of State. The pr()gram, administered by the Institute of International Educa- tion, is intended to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and ether coun- tries, and provides more than 800 grants for study in 52 countries. Application forms and information for students currently enrolled in Union College may be obtained from the campus Fulbright adviser, W. H. Oldenbrook. The deadline for filing applications through the Fulbright ad- viser is October 30. (A:ll forms com- pleted and all letters of recommen- dation in by this date.) Candidates Candidates who wish to apply for an award mnst be U. S. citizens at the time of application, have a bach- elor's degree ()r its equivalent by the beginning date of the grant and, in most cases, be proficient in the lan- guage of the .host country .. Selections will he made on the basis of aca· demic and/ or professional record, the feasibility of the applicant's proposed study plan and personal qualifica- tions. Preference is given to candi- dates who have not had prior oppor- tunity for extended study or residence abroad and who are under the age of 35. Not Always Required Creative and performing artists are not required to have a bachelor's de· gree but they must have four years of professional study or equivalent experience. Applicants in social work must have at least two years ·Of pro- fessional experience after the Master of Social Work degree. Applicants in the field of medicine must have an M.D. at the time of application. Types Two types of grants are available through IIE under the Fulbright- Hays Act: U. S. Government Full Grants, and U. S. Government Travel Grants. A full award will provide a grantee with tuition, maintenance for one academic year in.one country, round- trip transportation, health and acci- dent insurance and an incidental al- lowance. ~ F'L.U .SH'OO'T · .. ' Faculty, students, staff members and employees of the college may ·receive free flu shots at Silliman Hall on Tuesday, October 10, from 11:30 am to 1:00 pm, and on Wed- nesday, October 18 at the same time. 3 person falls somewhere between level- One, a human vegetable, and level- Seven, the highest form of man. Committees Propose Changes .... Harvard First published in the \Harvard Business Review,\ the theory has drawn widespread attention. Reprint requests for the original article has reached 15,000. His theory has als() been published in Newsday, \Fortune\ magazine and most recently in \Mac- leans\ (of Canada). His levels have nothing to do with age, intelligence, success, affluence. education or any of the usual yard- sticks. They do, rather indicate an individual's degree of civilitation and self-development. Graves' theory is the result of 14 years of research, much of it with a machine called a tachistoscope. This machine flashes programmed words onto a screen to test a subject's recognition of different concepts and ideas. Predicts Behavior These committees met throughout the year and submitted reports to the president. He appointed another committee, the Special Summer Com- mittee on the Future of Graduate Study, composed of Profs. Board, Ket- chum, Shick, and U1Imann 1 to study the question on the basis of the reports by the Faculty Committee of Ten, and the Bennett Report. This committee worked during the month of August to prepare one of the two reports with which this series of articles is chiefly concerned. During July, the Special Summer Committee on the Future of Under- graduate Programs, composed of Profs. Finklestein, Lowen, K. L. Shick and Dean of the Faculty Lockwood, met to consider every aspect of under- graduate education at Union. In accordance with a desire to con- sider student opinion on the future of the college, the Committee of Ten appointed a subcommittee of Profs. Niemeyer and Goble to explore these opinions~ In turn, these professors chose a co-committee consisting of Joseph Mann, Editor of Concordien· sis, Benjamin V olinski, then President of the Student Body, Hunter Lewis, then President of the IFC, Ronald Powell, a Woodrow Wilson Scholar, and a sophomore president of his fraternity pledge class, Geoffrey Neil- son, to work with the subcommittee. A questionaire was devised and sub- mitted to forty-seven students chosen at random (the sixteenth and thirty- second names on each page of the Winter term Student Directory were used) to answer the questionaire, and ~v~ their views on the future of t; !l.C:l. Coeds at Union The subcommittee report of the Committee of Ten indicated that stu- dents generally like the college \very much as it is\. The question evoking the strongest response was that con- cerning co-education at Union. Opin- ion ran better than 2-1 opposed to Union being co-educational. It is wor- thy of note that, despite this, the July committee recommended that Union go co-ed. Further student opinion showed a concern for a larger course offering, a broader Fine Arts program, a work- ing arrangement with another college or university, and the extension of the graduate programs (in regard to these last two, students expressed fear that Union might lose her \iden- tity and uniqueness\). This report as well as those of the trustees and the C()mmittee of Ten were all digested this summer by the two special summer committees pre- viously mentioned. Beginning next week, this series will explore more closely the results of their studies, as published this fall, some of the im- plications of Union's future, and some of the many opinions and alternatives explored in reaching these decisions. This theory, he believes accurately predicts the behavior of ghetto Neg- roes and others and can be used to help solve many of the pervasive ur- ban problems. The corporate executives, identified as the presidents and vice-presidents of their companies, discussed the ghetto problem within the framework of Grave's human behavi()r theory. \I was interested that I didn't shock them too much, but that they were cognizant of the fact that this problem is so pervasive and so serious that it has to be attacked by people who can make decisions rather than people tied up in political bureaucracy. These men were able to see this as a man- agement problem that can be trans- ferred to solve ghetto problems,\ Graves states. Student Coune::ll Speaks \·'~---~\\' Foreign Service Students interested in an in- terview with a representative of the U.S. Foreign Service should meet with Mr. MacKnight on October 12, from 2-4:00 pm in Social Sciences Building, room This article alld subsequent ones are designed to keep you better in· formed about tlte student council. Their purpose is not to formulate your opinions on issues, but merely to let you know, \What's happening\. It is our hope that these articles, which will appear from time to time will help you to answer the ques- tion \What does the student council do'?\ By Grady Aronstamm One project which should be of interest is the Academic Committee's work under the chairmanship of Jose DeCosta. Presently, they are preparing a report on the faculty recommenda- tions concerning academics made dur- ing last summer. We hope to (1) find out what these recommendations were and (2) be able to influence any aca- demic changes. .By \influencing any Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, academic changes\ we mean that we want to make student opinions knoWn before decisions are made. This way we can participate in a very real way in the future planning of Union Col- lege. Bob Michaels, chairman of the Stu- dent Life Committee, will soon make known the results of the registration survey (remember?) This survey cov- ered a broad range of subjects which should be of interest to every Union student. Hopefully, this survey and others which are planned for the fu- ture will help to answer the question \what do Union students want from College?\ There are some ideas brewing which are not of such a general nature. Sev· eral council members have discussed the idea of running a course evalua- CHARLES OPTICIANS A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere tion survey every term. There has also been discussion about having an activities workshop to discuss the lack of student interest in activities. These are just two examples of the many ideas which the council is working on at the present time. Perhaps, the biggest thing that the council needs is an expression of stu.- dent interest. If we know what you want, something can be done about it. · I ar.n sure that every class represen- tative or student council officer will be willing to listen to suggestions from members of the student body. The All College Council has opened the way to make Union . a school where students can play an important role in shaping the environment. The question is, will we rise to that chal- lenge? DARI TREET RESTAURANT 604 Union St. NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 2049 VanVranken Ave pier FR 7-1283 Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. CHAR-BROILED 509 Union Street STEAK DINNER $1.50 L 502 Broadway 377-8838 Near Jay Street Frames and Lenses Replaced arge parties accommodated in our BEEFBURGER PLATTER $1.10 Schenectady, N. Y. Prescriptions Filled RATHSKELLER w/Fr. Fries 8c. Vegetable 98C: i ' ~~~~~~~~~iiiiii:i~iii:iiii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;:;;;::~:;::::F::o::r::r::e;;:;se:;::r;:va::t=io=n=s::p=h::o=n=e=F=R~4-=8=9=1=7=::~~~==1T-f~===~======~====F=R =7=-:;:;4;;;2=6=1 ===~: 13.5 ERIE BOULEVARD 100() staples) ! size Cl:JB Desk 1 ·~ $1;69 • 1 guaranteed. or bO>Ok store. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Boulevard Bowl DEWITT'S ® .I l N.Y.l110t nol1.: SlE>ld~g I t 'V I~OJUXOO .p.:au~-q EJ.M JO'qiO:I\( dn loiO<() ::;.1qq~l aq:;. ;pa'JU'nlf 'lla.t, 'I<'IP . u- llO t. 'I ISli:i/1\SNV • SPECIALIZING ·IN Cafeteria and Tap Room Italian • American Food 31 AMF ~~wllng Lanes Fine Food and Legal Beverages Schenectady 01 6-9744 118-120 JAY STREET Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M. Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar SNACK BA~ ON PREMISES J ~------------------------·--------------+---------~·~------------------------· 1125 BARRETT ST. I i.

4 Thursday, October 5, 1967 The Politics of Resistance: The Oct. 16th Draft Movement by Bob Thurber On October 16th young men from all over the country will turn in their draft cards to fed- eral officials. For each one of them, this is a personal act; each one is malting his commit· ment essentially alone in an assertion of his own dignity and freedom. To ask for your support, your personnal assent to his action by demon· strating your approval is not to ask a great deal. The following article, which I feel illustrates more than adequately the mood and the thought of the October 16th people, has been written by one of these committed young men. He was born and brought up in Amenca just like you and me. His background is much lil•e that of any of us. He does not make deceptive plots against anyone. He has not infiltrated from anywhere. He wants nothing more than to be happy and' free, and enjoy life as does any one of us. The article is self explanatory and I can do no more than be silent ami lit it speak for itself, by Baxter Garcia of Berkeley Resistance In the spring of 1967, further escalations of the war in Vietnam by the Johnson Administra· tion were followed by a concomitant escalation of the anti-war movement. The most surprising new development in this movement is the emer· gence on an unprecedented national scale of a movement of organized resistance, based on com- plete noncooperation with all the institutions con· nected with the American war effort in Vietnam. It is the purpose of this essay to .analyze the basic motivations for the formation of the re- sistance movement at this time, and the political implications of the movement. By 1967, those of us most actively involved in tne anti-war movement had discerned a funda· mental contradiction inherent in our political stance and modes of politica,l action. We began to realize that while the thrust of our political opposition was directed against the established structure of authority, and the established in· stitutions of this society, nevertheless, by our selection of particular modes of expressing dis· sent and by our failure to dissociate ourselves completely from those institutions linked to the war effort, we were indirectly prepetuating the existence of these institutions, and giving ere· dence to their spurious claims to legitimacy. Two Dimensions There were two significant dimensions to this revelation, one on the level of individual moral awareness, the other on the level of collective development. Many of us who were deeply opposed to the war had based our opposition on a conception of personal moral or religious obligation. We had appealed to the principles embodied in the Nur· emberg Charter; that a fundamental 'law of humanity' exists which transcends the law of the state, and to which the individual owes his ultimate allegiance. Thus, a man is morally bound Union irregulars open second front against U .5. Government in Jackson's Gardens to d!ssociat<;; himself from the institutions apd policies of the state, when that state orders him to commit war crimes, or a crime against human- ity. The Nuremberg Charter had established an important legal precedent and simultaneously substantiated a basic moral precept; that an individual is morally justified, and indeed morally obligated ,to act in accordance with the dictates of his conscience, even though such action may contradict the law of the state. This defines the responsibility and the moral dilemmna of the individual who must act, even when that action must take place outside the established framework of law of the state, and even when such action may provoke a severely punitive response from the established authorities. In America in 1967, increasing numbers of young men, and men of all ages, seriously op- posed to their country's foreign policy, confront a similar moral dilemma. For young men, that dilemma is clearly defined in the ·Confrontation wi'th the system of military conscription. The deferment system had long served as a subter- fuge, obscunng the basic moral issue of coopera- tion with the conscription, and also serving to avert a head-on-confrontation with those opposed to the war. But the revealed inequities and in- equities of his system had rendered the draft's position increasingly untenable. For those of us who found cooperation with the war effort and its associated institutions, particularly the draft, unconscienable, there seemed no alternative but to dissociate ourselves completely from those in- stitutwns and accept the concomitant retribution wh1ch the government would impose. Alternative But in 1967, a new alternative emerged. A new stage had been reached in the anti-war move- ment. It was not apparent that there was a .step beyond the individual act of complete dissocia· tion from the structures of war in America, and a step beyond the isolation which inevitably accompanied that action. That step consisted of unification and planned political action, on a massive scale. based on total non-cooperation with the institutions and policies of war in America. The era of victimization and martyrdom had come to an end. The era of resistance had begun. 'fhe concept and strategy of resistance con- stitute a viable political alternative; an alterna- tive which derives its initial power from a con· ception of undamental personal integrity and responsibility. We who choose resistance perceive that a basic assiutnption underlying the govern· ment's conduct of its foreign and domestic policies is that we who are seriously opposed to those policies will not translate our opposition into political action involving direct confrontation with the government. The government, in devel- oping and implementing its policies, presupposes our ultimate tacic acquiescence to the system of conscription and the war. The government presupposes that we will not engage in political action which might seriously jeopardize our material and economic status in society. But the emerging movement of resistance finally and decisively repudiates this assumption. We who choose to resist do so out of a sense of personal fidelity; we feel that our status and position in society are directly related to the fundamental bases and assumptions of that society which we are challenging. The resistance move- ment thus carries the challenge to its logical conclusion. In order meaningfully and effectively to challenge t:he government and the institutions of the society, one must accept the very grave risks inherent in such challenge. Peace Trends In the context of concrete political strategy and action it is necessary to discuss prevalent trends and' programs in the peace movement to· day. Initially, we must attempt to account for the inefficacy of any of the customary modes of dissent exploited by the peace movement.; that is, protest and symbolism, peitions, marches, and occasional s);}oradic and disunified civil disobedi- ence. By 1967, as the Johnson Administratioll relentlessly escalates the war, there can no longer be any question that the ususal forms of protest are having no significant effect on the ad~in­ istrations determination or capacity to contmue waging war. It is apparent that the government's success in countering the challenge of the anti· war movement is directly related to its ability to co-opt the ideals and strategy of the ~ovement. This is possible since the government 1tself has determined the criteria for acceptability of the modes of expressing disesnt. Protest, rhetoric, symbolism, and marches are acceptable modes. Opposition on these levels in no way pose a substantial .threat to the established structures and institutions involved in the war effort, and in no way diminish the administration's capacity to wage war. 'I'he reverse is true. These forms of opposition have to be viewed as necessary and essential for the maintenance of the facade of democracy which prevails in America. After all, freedom of speech is a constitutionally guaran· teed right of all American citizens. This, then, Buckley Creates Good Vibrations During the past few years, folk music has been revolutionized. Most of us are aware that today's folk songs have more sophisticated lyrics than those of a decade ago. But this is not the only change that the music has gone through. Today's folk music employs many types of instruments. No longer are we subjected to just one or two guitars. Instead drums, bass, harmonicas, and all conseivable instruments are being used. The music has been stretched to such a point where it is now sometimes losing its identity and be- coming a part of rocl~. Tim Buckley's second album, Hello and Good· bye (Elektra) is an excellent example of folk music's expanding boundaries. Buckley, an ex- tremely talented musician who unfortunately has not received the recognition that he deserves, uses a backup group which is closer to rock than to folk; yet the feel of his music retains the \folk sound\ however ambiguous term this is. Ray Clutters Buckley's material is generally superb. How· ever, I have one reservation about his album. Someone seems to feel the need to clutter up some of Buckley's songs with too much back- ground, when in actuality, simplicity would have been most effective. As a result, \Morning Glory\ suffers from a Ray Coniff vocal chorus which almost ruins a good tune. But by all means, buy this album. Most of the tunes are superb. \Once I Was\ is one of the most beautiful vocal ballads that I've ever heard; \Pleasant Street\ is just plain groovy. But \I Never Asked to Be Your Mountain\ is the album's highlight. The lyrics are superb, but they do not make the song. Rather, is the beat, a very powerful percussion section sweep~ th~ listener off his feet. It creates waves and vibratwns. You have no choice but to listen. Home-Grown Folk Peter, Paul, and Mary's Album •700 (Warner Brothers) is more conventional folk than Buck- ley's album. And this is quite ironic since most people consider PP & M \commercial.\ Yet the trio has produced one of their finest albums with their hit \I Dig Rock and Roll Music\ and \Weep for Jamie\ being especially good. And then there is Tim Hardin's album Number 2 (Verve Forecast). Hardin, has written some of our most beautiful tunes like \If I Were A Carpenter\ and \The Lady From Baitimore.\ Yet he is still pretty much of an unknown to the general public. A Quickie This could have been the Tim Hardin album. All the tunes are good. However, the album as a whole was sloppily produced. First, all the tunes are so short that the album's entire playing time iS under one half an hour. Probably, it was thought that a fast buck could be made by making the album so short. Secondly, some of the tunes a1 e melodically similar. And for some unknown reason, these tunes were put back to back. Some· one at Verve Forecast is doing a very slipshod job in putting albums together. Yet the album is good, because it is Tim Hardin. If you are interested in hearing a great talent, get hold of this record. But remember that Hardin is capable of better. is the meaning of co-optation; that the challenge presented by the peace movement has become as- similiated into the dominant structure of power, and hence transformed into an integral part of that structure. Thus the United States can con- t.nue its ongoing campaign of aggression in Asia, and contillue the process of militarization at home, while justifying these activities in the name of democracy, freedom, equality, and justice. For those considering resistance, the lesson is clear: to accept the hounds of the established structure of authority and to define the political actlon of th3 movement in terms of that struc- The Protest against the War goes on ture 1 means to accept poHtical emasculation and the mevitable co-optation of the movement's spirit and energies. Alternative The strategy of the emergent resistance move· ment offers a genuine alternative to this co· optation. The first phase of resistance involves resistance to the draft, an institution integral to the rapidly expanding military establishment. We who have chosen to resist pledge to renounce all deferments and refuse all cooperation with the system of conscription. The subsequent develop· ment of the strategy of resistance involves the conduct of an ongoing campaign of unified, ag- gressive action directed against the institutions and policies of war in America. The strength of resistance lies in solidar~ty, based on mutual respect and responsibility. We affirm that we will not be intimidated by threats of imprison- ment, or similar reprisals, for acceptance of those risks is implicit in the decision to resist. Aims The stance of resistance is active, rather than passive, offensive, rather than defensive. The aim of resistance is to provoke continual con- frontations with the governmental institutions linked to the war. The resistance confronts the government with an unresolvable dilemma; to prosecute and imprison us, which will generate waves of protest and dissent, of unsurpassed in- tensity; or to set us free, which will provide greater impetus for the expansion of the move· ment. If the government attempt to suppress the movement, and to imprison us, it will soon realize that this tactic is self-defeating, since it merely serves to vindicate us, and validate the position of resistance. The alternative tactic of attempting t J ignore us, or refusing to confront us directly, is equally self-defeating for the government, since this will encourage many others, once reticent, to join the movement. · The resistance inexorably gains momentum as increasing numbers of individuals come to realize that to acquiesce in the face of an unjust and immoral war is to perpetuate an ineluctable cycle of violence and oppression; a cycle which threatens to engulf the world in total war. Re- sistance is the initial step towards liberation from the tyrannical automatism of this vicious and destructive cycle. (For further information about Oct. 16th. and support demonstrations contact Bob Thur!J'eif.:c/o Concordy) ~~ ~ ... ·-·; II .) ,, Thursd< ( t --- f The that is five ye ¢ ond pa: a contc two paJ post of c The ipants: ident o to Viet 0 Presj your g .:louth' u. s. troops 6 suppre: 100;000 and 50 increas ., Vietmu Presi you ju some n u.s. \ Pres. how al: Pentag1 u.s~ c;. win W ning tb wiped world. Pres. e I mean My pee demom to me. l' ,. q S.D.S. ' ;:;r,' 1 ·, Power\ a Fasci very u] u.s. \ countr~ we nee, Especi;; countr~ P.resi \comm: ~ made 1 ·. present ill ' be no , ·'\ , edgy :1 jective~ party r u.s ( troops, Pres. Vietna1 1 , 1 war. V\ .o~ ·\ j' ., Howevj ' v- 'might l 1 ' i; tht.\ ~~ .:; too bac ·• ' c No offE I mean I ., Cle . ( • € 4' .. • • Cl Pro ens ( ment pulisll Again A tain the T of de of fot fessor topic amon! Pro ing or titled not al inforn at thi: Tw( puhlis Girou: at mo our C there's one place that does it! ZELLMER'S NORGE I.AUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1§59 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) Mother Ferro's Restauran~; .. ,.. '• ·- ... • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Rings Sized • Engraving • Pearl & 'Bead Stringing THE PREMISES ON -TAlV Jt:WEUY U.1.1I. COMP.AtiY _) 315 State Street. SchenE\ctady The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 FR 4·8219 Mama Bianchi's Fine Italian & American Food Open Sunday Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad ancl Coffee-$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ 4 Lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb.------------ DRYERS 30 Lb.------------ 10 Min.----------- .10 .25 .35 .50 OPEN- 8 A.M. to 10 P,l\1. Mon. to Fri. - Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVE·R HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED REALE'S For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 Specializing in Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 RELAX! PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 Jay Street Special Price For College Students Ladies Free Accompanied by Gentleman !.1'. ' II ~----~--------------------------------~ ~-------------------' --------------------~ Thur! • .: sored l Mr. Ed Gov't Sl a Them • < dent .P( tion ce1 ·i Satur \Repor1 ~ ( Brinkle PM Col Mond . short, sponsor Lango a: Tues' • cussion \Arab East\ Profess1 !\'liddle • Ican Cl tional 1 Center Wed11 ing Ar1 De Pa1 College

1967 as- power, part of con- in Asia, at name lesson political struc- on and spirit move- this co- involves to We all the develop- the fied, ag- strength mutual that we mprison- of those than The con- the to generate assed in- provide move· press the realize t merely position directly, since to as realize and eluctable which war. Re- from and 16th. and ~ .... ,..._ WJ.'~ .. - St. entleman .• Thursday, October S/ 1967 5 ( t --------------------~ € From Saigon to Schenectady UNION CALEND,AR Friday Oct. 6: Film Series, \The Last Laugn,\ 7:00 and' 9:00 PM, Social Science Building 016. Saturday, Oct. 7: Football, Union vs. Kings Point, 1:30PM, Away. ) ,, .. ~ \' J, ;:;r,' by Alan Ziegler win anybody to his side? Especially, when they have .trouble with the National Language, Engli~h, The :first part of this column is a conversation and are unfamiliar with the customs l:ike Christ- that is liltely to take place in South Vietnam in mas and basebalL Big blond marines. That's the five years if the current trends continue. The sec- ticket. We do need a little help, though. We'd ¢ ond part. deals with action at Union. There will be like some South Vietnamese to accompany our a contest to deduce the connection between the units. Just for protection purposes, you under- two parts. The winner will assume the now vacant stand. post of Women's Page Editor. Pres. Quack (Shocked): Oh no, my people will c The scene: Saigon. The date: 1972. The partie- never stand for it. Next think you know, you'll ipants: Damn Van Quak, the newly. elected Pres- be throwing the whole program to us. ident of South Vietnam, and the U.S. Ambassador U.S. Amb.: Problems, problems. And things to Vietnam. aren't much better back home. Just the other 0 President Quack: I've been hearing talk about day the President sent the National Guard to your government wanting us to recruit more Alabama to enforce a desegregation edict and .South Vietnamese troops. now the Governor of the South, Princess Lurleen, U. S. Ambassador: Yes, with 500,000 American you remember that nice littl~ lady, well she troaps suppressing revolution in Greece, 350;000 called it a clear case of aggression and wants the ·ti' suppressing revolution in the Dominican Republic, marines sent in. Frankly, it's got the Cabinet 100;000 in France trying to start a revolution, very .confused. They just can't figure it out. and 50,000 at Berkely, we just can't afford to Pres. Quack: I'm so sorry to hear that. increase the 1,500;00@ troops we have here in U. S. Amb.: Well, we'll talk later about those ·• Vietnam. extra troops. Why don't we go get a beer. By President Quack: Look, it's simple. Why don't the way, the President sends regards. you just cut down on your poverty program some more? Pres. Qnack: Oh, how is Lady Bird? And, hey, U. S. A.mb,: The what program? what~s on the tube tonight? c. p.res. Quack: Oh yes, I forgot about that. Well, It's possible that something just ~ight be hap- how about calling in some more men from the pening here, Mr. Jones, and maybe If you .try so Pentagon? Maybe they can straighten things out. hard, you will be able ~o understa1;1~- I write .eq- U.S~ Amb,: Listen, right now we have Gen. Ed- uivocally because the history of activism at Umon c;. win Walker, Batman, and George Wallace run- is replete with a surfeit of ideas and a dearth of ning the Joint Chiefs of Staff. I tell you, we're all action. wiped out. Our men are scattered all over the But there is something intangible in the tone of world. things that leads me to believe that Union is Pres. Quack: Well, I don't think I can help you. pregnant with a very lively and .precocious baby, e I mean, I have to think of my political future. and unless there is a miscarrage, things will start My people want the War over, you know. These happening. demonstrations and marches are starting to get Item: 40 students and several faculty members to me. Just the other day the Saigon University attended (in body and mind) the first meeting of q S.D.S. walked out on my speech. Shouting \Lotus · c 'tt d d' d Power\ and all that. They said we're supporting the Campus Action omm1 ee an · 1scuse every- a Fascist .government in the u.s. They've gotten thing from the War to the forced fun of a com- very uppity since we went democratic. pulsive gym system. U. S. A.mb.: But you have a commitment. Your Item: Unofficial \cultural\ weekends are now ' country promised to give our country all the help being planed. Several events such as Jazz Work- we needed. You can't let aggression go unabated, shop concerts, Mountebanks productions, art ex- Especially when it's aggression against your own hibits etc. would be scheduled for the same week- country, end. P.resident Quack: I'm not so sure about this Item: For the first time, the Student Council \commitment\ talk. That commitment was not has a standing committee on curriculum. made to your current government or by our Item: There will be a demonstration organized present government. My country is getting very by Union students in Albany Oct. 16, supporting edgy about this commitment. There seems to those who will be turning in their· draft cards in l be no end to it. We have to re-evaluate our ob- New York City. jectives here. At last that's what our opposition Action CommiHee party has been telling me. U. s. Amb.: But if you don't give us more The Campus Action Committee is anarchistically c troops, American lives will be lost. (dis) organized; There are no officers or con- Pres. Quack: Listen, I see no reason why South stitutions. Viewpoints among the members may Vietnamese should fight and die in America's be similar but do not have to be identical. Each war. We are not here to do your job for you. member is considered a co-chairman an,d may in- ./\ ., H?wever, if you'd lik~ some more advisors, I ittiate action on any particular issue. Perhaps as ' v- - m1ght be able to arrange a few. By the way, how's the organization grows, it will take on a specific 1 · ... · the \Other War\ going? identity, but right now it prefers to remain ne- U. S. Amb.: Oh, the Pacification Program. Not bulous. The issues it is concerned with are the too badly since we got all the gooks out of it. War, Student Power, poverty, civil rights, and the ·• c No offense, but they're rather ugly litle creatures. draft. Perhaps this group will fizzle and then I mean, how can a scrawny guy with slanty eyes once again our campus will bathe in the stupor ~~~~~~~~~==~~~ I ., Clemens Publishes • • 4' I. e; • Children's Book Professor Richard A. Clem- ens of the English Depart. ment has recently written and pulished a book entitled Two Against the Tide. A novel written to enter- tain children, Two against the Tide deals w~h the place of death in life. The father of four children himself, Pro- fessor Clemens feels that this topic is sorely n!:)glected among children's authors. Professor Clemen's is work- ing on another children's book titled Bent Faces, but he is not able to give any definite information about the book at this time. Two Against the Tide is published by Farrar-Straus- • Giroux and can be purchased at most book stores, including our Campus Book Store. I . ...._~. ~,t~~,, . ,._f~~~~~~:~~. 6.~· ~~' ~~ \ ~ ~~ ,.,~~ ;_,~t.\ \-\\.' ~ ,, ~~~~' ~q,\~ ~ ~\' ~~;~~~ NOTT MEMORIAL \' C'\ ~ \.. Wed. Oct. 11 '-> 10 A.M.- 4 P.M. Arranged by FERDINAND ROTEN GALLERIES, BALTIMORE, MD. j r·\\'--\\\''·\\'--\\-\·'- • RUDNICKS ·--------------------------· I 308 STATE ST. 'I' ~t ®~ J ~ .· . ~~ ~,,~ 372-6486 M ~;~ ~ of tranquility, but it just may ferment and blow some minds~ The reason students have so little to say about things here has been our failure to demand the right to have something to say. The syndrome for change has been for the faculty or administra- tion to act behind closed doors, and then for students to react after it is too late. Thus, stu- dents start passing petitions and co.mplaining about the housing problem after the new dorms are built. Students must become involved in the decision making process. This is now posible at least for non acadaemic affairs with the All College CouncH. Everyone opposed to the housing policy should apply direct pressure in the way of phone caUs and letters to the members ·Of the AU Col- lege CounciL Let them know how we feel before new d0rms start going up in Jackson's Gardens. And let's get someone who cares on the AN College Council; someone who will not be snow- ed by the avalanche of speciousness that often cascades from the hollowed peaks of the ad- ministration. I support Gene Kokot in the up- coming special election to the All CoUege Coun- cil. I have :worked extensively with Gene Korkot and believe he wiH be able to make the Council an acti!>n group, Sunday, Oct. 8: Christian Science Lecture, 3:30 PM, Memorial Chapel. Tuesday, Oct. 10: Freshman Cross Country, Union vs. Lenox, 3:00 PM, Away. Varsity Soccer, Union vs. Trinity, 3:30 PM, Away. Student Council Meeting, 7:30 PM, Hale House Student Lounge, Wednesday, Oct. 11: Varsity Cross Country, Union vs. Clarkson, 3:00 PM, Away. FrPshman Soccer, Union vs. Middlebury, 3:00 PM, Away. Friday, Oct. 13: Freshman Football, Union vs. Trinity, 3:00 PM, Away. Varsity Soccer, Union vs. St. Lawrence, 3:00 PM, Away. Saturday, Oct. 14: Varsity Football, Union vs. Rochester, 1 :30 PM, Home. Varsity Soccer, Union vs. Clarkson, 2:00 PM, Away. Freshman Soccer, Union v~. New Paltz, 12:00 Noon, Home. MIDTOWN BAR·BER SHOP Serving Union For 34 Years STARriNG OCT. 31 All Haircuts to be done by Appointment from Tues. thru Fri. .Appointments not neces- sary Sot. 515 UNION ST. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 10 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. for perfect mates, the perfect mat<:h. T.?- '!!!,.ADITIONAL k ® ~::J;!SCL e WEDDINCI RINGS SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and fnforma/ Atmosphere First Choice Of The Engageables They I ike the smart sty I i ng and the perfect center diamond . .'. a brilliant gem of fine color and modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in your ring assures lifetime satis- faction. Select yours at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ REGISTERED ~12sake® DIAMOND RINGS Thursday, Oct. 5: Lecture span- ' • ~ sored by Politics Club, speaker ~] Mr. Edward Greer, instructor in i~~ Gov't Skidmore. Subject \Towards ~ a Theory of .Justification of Stu- M HEADQUARTERS ·~~ cy hdK I h Perfectly mate e eepsa <e ~M wedding rings are the most • < d,ent Power\ 7:30 PM in recrea- ilii! bon center. m;~ W, .. ·i Saturday, Oct. 7: Film series ~ \Report from Washington\ David I Brinkley, ne:ws commentator, 7:30 *' PM College Hall. I FOR LEE LEENS LEE RIDERS CPO SHIRTS Monday, Oct. 9: French film ~~ . short, \La Douceur du Villa'', ~ sponsored by Dept. of Modern Language, 7 PM language center. WOOL PLAID JAC SHIRTS Tuesday, Oct. 10: Panel dis. cussion and the subject is - \Arab and Jew in the Middle East\ sponsored by American Professors for Peace in the !\'liddle East\ sponsored by Amer- Ican Chaplain and the Interna- tional Religion Club. Recreation Center at 7:30 PM. Wednesday, Oct. 11: Perform- ing Arts series, concert by the De Paus Chorus, 7:30 PM in College Ifall. PEA COATS HUNTING CLOTHES OF ALL KINDS ~-~t:·; .. ~;il':t·M~HiM~,;~ beautiful symbols of your love. Our many lovely styles await your selection. TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Phone FR 4-0183 itln~r:s enlarKed to abow ~et.lJ. Trlde-Mark nu. PftiCES r:.:oM $100. TO UOOO. RINGS ENLARGED 10 S\iOW IE\liTY OF OtTAU, ® Tt!A.Dt•MARK ftEG. A. H. POHD COMI\AHY INC •• EstAnt.ISttED 18U r HOW TO-PLAN YOUR ~NGAGEMENT AND WEDDING- I Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- ! ment and Wedding\ and new 12-page f~ll color folder, ~oth for I only 25c. Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-page Bnde s BooF~; Name~--~--------~--------~------~----­ Address ------------------------------ City __ ..__ _______________ _ State Zip ______________ _ I<EEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N. Y. 13202 L-----------------------------

6 Thursday, October 5, 1967 Letters to the Editor Published 'l'hursdays dul'lng the scnoo1 . year by the Student llody of Union Colle~e. Schenectady, N 'Y. :s'atlonal · .Advertising- Representative: :s'ational AdvertisinG' Service, Inc., Collerre Publlshers Representatll•e. ·420 )ladl· · son Ave., N. Y. C. Student Power To the Editor: Editorial OCflee, Old Oym, l:nitm Col- Vlhy Student Power? Why leg-e. Pul>lkatlon Ofrlce, Schenectady : off-campus living? Why more l'l'lnting Company, 502 Bromlway. liberal social rules? Then ask, Entered in the S<:hene.,tauy l'ost Or- why is the student taking a fiee as Second Clas• Mall ~latter. back seat? The answer is that SubscriPtion 15c a cow; $3 n year no one student has yet repre- delivered anywhere in the l' ulted serited the unified bloc making >'tates. these demands. There is no ~'KSIOR BOARD reason why Union cannot abol- . JOSEPH: -\· ~1.\XX. JH. ·cs ............... 37~-4157 ........................... l:lullol·-ln-~elliel' ish social rules. We men have JOEL RUBENZAHL. 'GS..... .. ............ ~77-9430 .................... Lluslness :Manager handled the question of WOmen RICHARD BALAGt:R ·su.. ..................... 374-7418 ......................... News Editor· and responsibility ·commenda- . ~ti~;,, ~-~~'~\~~\· Gi;~ 9 ·:··· .. ... · .. : :::::::;~~:~~;~ · : :: :::::i;;:~~:~~· ~~:~~:. bly. Likewise there is no rea- G .. \HY l'.lt'E\'u~1~ ·1:!' ......... :nt:~-i:s-tl .............. ~vons I~1litur son 'vhy students cannot Win off- .JUNIOR BO.\Rll ,· campus living rights. With . Associate \'\w\ l<~tlltor ; · Student Power there should be H.h.-hard Pattt:.~nmn, .It>. • ~-o . Dick Daniel ''i'O ........................... . . .. ............... Photographer ' · little Which the student cannot l .. en Hi-m,,n · ;u .. Nell S, Rrnnlt\'l~ '7tl· Petf'r Urotman '·I)!~ St€Phf>n Littm.an '70. Cat•l Uoltlsnnd '7 0 . Sti:'Vl' I•~nx '70 A:-~sot·iatt\ KuurtH !<;di1or 1. -... .Asl:l't llunaging EU.itor ~ · win. --~ational Advertising ).lanager : ....... Sub.sC'ription .\lana~er , . .CI·rt·nlat.ion .\Ianager : ..... As1::1' t Ft>alUl'f'S Editor ' STAFF 1\IEIIIBERS Nls\'S: l3riun lloll•~·. I.en Kagan, Carl Englebnrt. Hul Ross. Hu~· Fl'ultc>rman .. ~Pal Gordon. Bill Bl\t=>iman. H!C'hatd Rosenberg, Hid1 G!lman. FE.\.'l'l'RES: Scott SIP!\Ier. Sl,(Ht1'~: 1-Jt~m·y FPllL', Ju.~ Hllt:t.man Sound Investntent Saturday's convincing football vi~tory has greater sig- nificance than an afternoon's glory and the promise of a successful season. Good press coverage on the nation's sport pages is conceivably more important in recruiting prospective students and influencing alunmi contributions than acclaim in educational and literary journals or Bar- ron's Guide to .American Colleges. Irrespective of its intrinsic merits, success in major athletic events is vitally important to the College. On any terms, Union must be as attractive to sub-fresh and moneyed alunmi. as it can. The continuation of convincing wins and the fulfillment of promising seasons figures prom- inently in the College's future. Princeton, Dartmouth, and Colgate are examples of schools that have gained both academically and financially from football and/ or basketball successes. The \Bill Brad- ley syndrome\ at Princeton is a good example of this phenomenon. Probably the most telling proof of the way this relates to Union directly is that from nearly forty men accepted by b@th Union and Colgate in 1966, only two chose the Garnet. Since no critical catalog rates Colgate above us, appeal to male pride must have been the prime contributing factor. I see the role of the student as not 'limited to. being an aca- demic sponge. He has earned his admission to college and should be granted rights com- mensurate with that achieve- ment. And as his achievements ·increase so should his Uberties. However, I should be in the past tense, for Union men have shown in most cases to already l>e among the highest in achieve- ment. Student Power should re- sound inside these years-worn walls. We as students need to be recognized as not being con- fined to the boundaries of the static grey atmosphere. We need much elbow room and should be allowed, if not en- couraged, to seek and partake in that which is outside. Un- ion's walls cannot protect us later. Union will do a highly com- mendable service in our acade- mic development. As for our human development, it can only stand in the way by intervening as a parent. To challenge our intellect is Union's first duty; to let us control our own ac- tions and seek our own tastes is its second. Student Power Candidate Eugene Kokot \Keep tile 'U' \ To the Editor: I would like to announce to the Student Body that I am a candidate for the All College S full t t . h' h alit h 1 Council. To better acquaint uccess y a~ rae mg m?re ~~ . qu y sc. o ar- everyone with myself and my athletes and more fme coaches lS a solid mvestment m the candidacy, I would like to offer future of the College. But this need not be done in the 1 . a few of my views on the \state manner of a. Big Ten school. Princeton, for example, o,f U_nion,\ and what directions oives no athletic scholarships but it does ~ve money to ' r d li~e to se~ the All College many of 1ts athletes. And the appeal to prospective ath- ~· · ' o· . I Counc1l take m the future. letes of coaches like Bruce Allison .cannot be discounted. No one needs to tell us that Finer facilities and equipment would also be attractive. 1· Union is a good school. Of that we can be both sure and proud. I At the same time, this is an The College must continue to invest in its athletic era of planned and present estabthlishmCoe 1 nttto attdractthscholafr-tahthltetileks awaythfrtomthDar_t- 1 ~~~gbe f~~ret~hatcf:~~eall t~~ mou , . ga e, an o ers o . a ' so a; ey .1!1 change only a better Union will turn might attract other supenor stadents of all classif1- come. The growing competi- cations, as well as the support of sports-minded alumni. tion from larger schools, and Trinkets Anyone? the need for more financial re- sources has convinced some that Union must not only greatly en- jlarge her student body, but also re-evaluate her traditional com- mittments and purposes in or- der to survive today. I believe that, with enlight- The college bookstore is sorely inadequate. Admittedly, ened leadership such as she has a space problem exists there, but the room which is present- at her \disposal now, Union can ly being wasted on a plethora of souvenirs and shelves of remain a first-rate educational insipid titles could be better used to accommodate a wide · ~¥:~~.g~~ !~~ /r~~~~ir~T/~~ range of books outside of those required for course work. a small, but quality undergradu- . ate institution. The dearth of high-quality reading material is appal- What is it that makes Union ling for a college \bookstore\. It would not be unprofitable unique? Important factors are for this enterprise to offer more books and less junk. . her size and \general atmos- . phere.\ It is her LOW STUD· ENT-FACULTY RATIO (whic.h Space Conquerers should be lower), the SMALL . CLASSES (which should be · smaller), the CLOSE STUDENT- FACULTY RELATIONSHIPS (which can be closer), and the · MANY, QUALITY COURSE -Th d f t d t t t th ·n h OFFERINGS (which can be im e nee · or as u en cen era · e co ege as never proved and made more diverse). been so acute as it is at the present time. Certainly at least one major group, student activities, presently suffers due to a lack of office space. .An ever- burgeoning administration will continue to dislocate student groups and allot them a minimum of space untiLthe stu- dent union can provide a haven from its encroachment. These are all strengths of Union. As indicated, they can still be improved. This is one direction the ACC should fol- low-consolidating past gains, and providing for beneficial fu- ture ones. What don't Union students A student union here will hopefully offer more to like al>out their college, aside . from the points already men- students thall. pool tables and pinball machines, the only tioned for improvement? They \activities\ presently visible at the freshmen rec center don't particularly love the idea in North College - unless, of course, chairs and Pepsi k~o; ~~~~~hifN~~~id d~h~ facilities are social, cultural and ex:tra-curricular activities .. her academic standards. Stud- It should truly serve as a \center\ for students, not simply ents generally dislike THE as another place to go bowling. COMP. ED. PROGRAM. They realize that it still must be re- constructed and: re-evaluated to better £it their needs and pref- erences. Union students strong- ly oppose a much BIGGE].{ UN- ION, with the co-related larger classes and impersonal relation- ships. Students feel unduly re- stricted by an UNREALISTIC HOUSING POLICY and CHILD- ISH SOCIAL RULES. How can we begin to correct these weaknesses? Certainly not with a maintenance pro· gram. We must reaffirm our committment to our traditional posture as a SMALL, QUALITY LIBERAL ART COLLEGE. We should begin now to INCREASE FACULTY SALARIES in order to attract more and better pro- fessors. A LARGER FACULTY, SMALLER CLASSES and MORE COURSE OFFERINGS are need- soon. The entire SOCIAL and INTELLECTUAL ENVIRON- MENT can still be improved. There are other specific areas on which we can focus some badly needed attention. Brief- ly: OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING - Necessary as a means of filling the individual needs of each student. FINE ARTS - More empha- sis and college support for the Fine Arts on campus. P ASS·F AIL - The institu- tion of a Pass-Fail s~stem here in order to allow students to learn for the joy of learning and not simply to sweat for a grade. SOCIAL RULES - Continued liberalization of social rules to allow individual growth while protecting individual rights. EVALUATION Greater participation .by students in evaluating courses and faculty. ATHLETICS-We need more rigorous recruitment of athletes to further improve Union's in- ter-collegiate achlevements, GROUPS - College support for smaller campus groups such under which questionnaires may circulate. 1. All questionnaires must bear a clear indication as to the source and sponsorship of the questionnaire. 1. No questionnaire may be distributed at an official func- tion of the College withm:1t the prior permission of the member of the administration responsi- ble for the particular occasion. (For example, .the Registrar is responsible fo1 the materials which are made available to students at registration). 3. No student shaH be forced to complete an unofficial ques- tionnaire against his 'Ni11. Theodore D. Lockwood Provost and Dean of Faculty Notice All Letters to the Editor must be brought to the Concordien- sis mail box in Old Gym Hall by Monday afternoon or to the Concordiensis office in Bronner House by 7:30P.M. on Tuesday. The letters must be typed, pre· ferably triple spaced. ECACPick Sophomore Rich Swan has been named to the ECAC Division III Team of the Week at the posi- tion of split end. Swan was cited for his perform- ances against St. Law- rence Saturday when he caught two TD posses. Joe James, Scott Kumpf and Craig Carlson were also nominated, with the latter being squeezed out for the honor of Sophomore of the Week. WELCOME AGA.IN 2 or more SHIRTS ••••• 23¢ ea. PANTS - - SOc SUITS - - $1.00 Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE - FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank Beer 25c HighbaUs 35c AT THE LAKEVIEW INN FRIDAYS 9-10 P.M. GALWAY LAKE Take Route 147 out of Scotia to Galway and ask anyone GEORGE POSNER '65 BILL YURKOWITZ '64 as the Film Workshop, the ~==========================:' Moving Finger and the Jazz Workshop. ACTIVITIES - Support for those campus activities who so strongly and rightfully provoke debate and intellectual inquiry as well as action. ACC - The ACC must begin to play a new role of leadership 1 in the future. The time for : being merely a reactive body 1 is past. Since coming to Union, I· have been active in a number 1 • of areas. From my desk as Associate News Editor of Con- cordiensis I keep in touch with · all that goes on at Union, and what students think on campus issues. I was recently named a Nott Scholar. Als(), I've been active in the Glee Club, Inter- national Relations Club, Dutch Classi(! Bowling League, and the Christian Fellowship. I want to put my energies and abilities to work for the entire student body, I am a candidate for All Col- lege CounciL If you see things pretty much as I do, I ask you to support me in the elections next week. The direction we, as a college, take in the future is in our hands, KEEP THE \U\ in Union. Thank you. RICHARD PAT'l'ERSON, JR. '70 Questioneaires To the Editor: During registration the Stud- ent Council reportedly distribut- ed a questionnaire whtch may well have raised questions al- though it sought answers. In particular, freshmen received I understand, only the first pa'ge which carried a beading \Union College\ and no other identifi· cation. The College had neith- er seen nor approved the ques- tionnaire. Although students are at all times free to· prepare ;\nd distribute questionnaires, students do deserve to know whether or not the College is sponsoring such inquiries. Be- cause of the confusion which may have occurred, it is worth repeating here the conditions FroiD. Scotland: Handwoven. Harris T·we ed Sport Coatings Bigb()ld stripes ••. crafted in colotuings not often seen in America. Precious virgin wool hand-loomed in Donegal, Ireland. Dea11sgate's flawless so£~ shoulder tailoring. Three reasons why these Deansgate Donegal sport jackets are superior irr every department. Fourth rc·mon? Tbe price-:~~cr $55 :llalfjr' THURSDAY & FRIDAY TILL NiNE .. • • • • .. f( Thursdcy, C Me This YE will be tr 2-2 recor year's bE though tt than the • 1 which c thir1;y pla varsity, t: potential Coach Br team into~ against 'lr: -ent's hom( three team: hart, Roch4 .Rochester § . high point season~s te come frorr incapacitat• et frosh tl abled bodi4 The squ; ing since E Allison is performmu tady boys, trandeF a Sykes. Co: terb a cit slt Jim Martin At the son's lineu ·He plan.s-1 ity in a wi tight. Dan ane will •OI • •

sday. pre· an m- he a. er th . I Thursday, October 5, 1 967 *Frosh Gridders Prep; · '71 Soccer . . . ·. Meet Trinity October 13 ' (iJ1 Continued from Page 8 years of high school varsity ex- perience. In the squad's first scrimmage, against the Union varsity, the frosh \handled the ball well.\ •, ·~ • • This year's frosh team Mike Harris playing the right In appraising his squad's ca- Soccer is a sport that requires will be trying to. better the ta<!kle. Steve French, or swing abilities, Coach Allison said the utmost in team play. Both gllard Ken Jacoby will play that performance on the college offense and defense can be suc- 2-2 record posted by last guard on the right side. Cen- level is largely independent of cessful only if the squad works year's baby Garnets. AI- ter will be handled by Henry high school reputation. Few together as a .single unit. though the team is smaller Wessman or Ivan Tehter. Dan concrete predictions can be Coach Benson is highly op- than the one of a year ago, Rapljay, .an all-western state made· until the team engages in timistic that the task will be lineman from Buffalo holds actual \combat.'' completed by October 11, when ' which contributed over down the left guard position. the :frosh will travel to Middle- thirty players to this year's Filling out the left side are X C bury College to open the 1967 varsity, they do have good Curt Lindahl at tackle, and Paul • 0Ufitry \ e • season. In the meantime, \more .potential Ramsey at end. The halfbacks scrimmages and plenty of prac- a•re Harold Hec~man, Joe Kirk- Continued from Page ·8 tice\ will be the order of the Coacl1 Bruce Allison leads his up .and Ostrander. Sylces heads t, A 1 b f th day. team into: action on October 13, a trio· .of fullbacks that include pro spec . wee c . e ore .. e U . agal ·nst 'Trinit.Y, at the oppo. n- start of the competiticm, Joe Starting · mt Larry Ellis and Steve MacKen• B t d · 16 02 I k ·ent's home field. The other zie. · urgess urne · m a : · c oc · Coach Benson has already be- three teams on the slate are Ho- ing, with the rest of the frosh gan to formulate a starting line- bart, Rochester and R.P.I. The On Defense not far behind. The first five up for the frosh. But the fight- Rochester game promises. to be a On defense the Garnets will men, those who would \score\ ing is still going on in most . high point .of the season. Last play a 4-4-3. The starters here in competition, all bettered positions. At left wing, the season~s team, while scoring a are John Foster at left end, 17:20 on the warm afternoon. leading candidates are Mike come from behind victory, so and John Migonis at right end. The varsity harriers, faced Harrigan and Owin Morris. Ke- incapacitated the Yellow Jack- Bill Wicker should also see ac- with a rebuilding season, are vin Goyne has probably sewed et frosh that less than twenty tion at de:lensive end. The likewise rounding into shape. up the starting left inside spot. abled bodied players were left. tackles are Paul Beadle, right, Myron Fribush led the Garnet John Lauroesch and Jack Liu The squad has been practic- and Rit Gallucci, left. Trinity varsity with a 16:22 clocking. are fighting for right inside ing since September 22 _ Coach will face Jeff Weiner and Tom Both the frosh and the varsity honors. At right wing, Fred Allison is optimistic about the H<Jit at right outside linebacker. will put on many more miles Mindlin, Robert Dodd and Chet f h :011 t11e left side George Gier- before they begin the season Hart are staging the battle for performances 0 two Sc enec- h.art holds the outside linebacker next week. By doing so, their top spot. The halfback spots tady boys, halfback Jerry Os- .position, with Paui Arnold and times will improve greatly. are being contested by Chris trandeF and fullback Larry h · bl · s · ld Sykes. Competing for the quar- TCJm Duffy fighting for the re- Right now, t · e mam pro em Swan, F10ravante cia one, terbaclc slet are Dan Kurkoff, maining opening in the line- is lack of speed in tile final Rich Schade, and Charles Fur- hacking .corps~ Guy Caruso is stages of the run. This. can of lan. Coach Benson termed Jim Marlin and George Gould. .the starter at left cornerback, course be remedied only by in- Swan \probably the best player At the moment, Coach Alii- and Rick Plante complements creased endurance throughout on the entire squad.'' Fullback son's lineu.ps are only tentative. him on the right side. The the race. Thus by running more spots may go to Larry Berkeley, · He plans. to open against Trin- safety spot is up for grabs, and more, the squad will be Jim O'Sullivan, Don Jost, or ity in a wing T, with both ends aJPong them Jim Martin, Rick able to build up their \kick\ Roger Miller. Fighting it out tight. Dan Gould or Ladd Beth- Werth, Mike Tilbor, and Matt needed in this most crucial part for top goalie are Berkeley, Les ane will .open at right end, with Sadosk. of any run. Allen, and Mike Pitt. ------~----~~--~----~~--------------------------~---------------------- • both A new girl for girl-watchers to watch ... Her name is Joan Parker, and she's the new Dodge Fever Girl. Watch her on television this season, dispensing Dodge Fever to a variety of unsuspecting souls. (Dodge's TV schedule is listed below.) A new car for car-lovers to love ... Its name is Charger, and it's the best-looking Dodge ever built. Complete with disappearing headlight~ and sports-car styling th~t features a European-type spoiler on the rear deck. But s1nce · looks aren't everything, we made it excitin~ to drive, with a 318-cu.-in. V8, bucket seats and an airplane-type instrument panel. Even pockets in the doors for tyour shades and/or rally maps. With all this included, we've reduced ChargGlr's list price by more than $100. Maybe you can't please everybody, but we sure try. See your Dodge Dealer right away. fro·m Dodge. You know, the people who build the cars that give you ... Dodge Fever. llODGE'S TV SCHEDULE FOR CJCI., 1967 • .. : ()ct. 2, 16, 30..... .Gunsmoke ()ct. 5, 19, 26.. . Thursday Night at the Mov-ies • • Oct. z. 14 .. <Jcqtz2 . .. Mannix . . The Smothers Brothers Oct. 8, 15, 22, 29 Mission: Impossible Oct.8, 22. . . A FLFoolball Oct. 5, 8, 11....... . The World Series These dates subject to change. 0 CHRYSLER MOTORS CORPORAliON Dodge 7 Beta Cops 66-67 Crown Phi Sigma Kappa At 2-0 Art Lawrence, director .of in- tram urals has released the final Intramural standings for 1966-6!7. They are as follows : .INTRAMURAL SCHEDULE f.RI. ocr. 6 Betas vs. Slg Chi K A vs. Phi Sig Dell TUES. OCT. 10 lnd's vs .. 0 Phi Phi Slg K vs. Sig Phi ntcs \·-····----· -------- 802.35'i Fox vs. Psi U D Oi ··-·-·····\···---···--·- 776.612 D Phi ---·-·····- ··----------- 742.491 D U -----·-------------------- 724.590 Chi Psi -----------------·---·- 720.355 Phi Sig Dell --·-·------------- -715.822 Phi Ep --·-------------------- 710.981 Inti's -·--· ------------------- 673.174 Phi Gom ---------------------- 659.394 Sig ·Chi--------·-\···--------_ 622.465 Th:·la Delt ------------------- _ 61'8.838 Phi Dell ----·-·· ------------· _ 593.232 ~ig Phi -·- ······-··--···----- 546.756 Psi U ------------------------ 481.8•10 Alpha Deft --------------·--·- 406.756 Phi Sig K -----------------·- _ 300.786 K A -------------------··-·-- 236.356 In football action last week Phi Sigma Kappa and DE!lta Phi moved to the top of the North- ern Division with two wins apiece while Chi Psi all.d Delta Chi won one apiece in thE South- ern League. D U and Beta have one win each to pace tbe East- ern League. .l WED. OCT. 11 Phi Ep vs. Phi G Delta Chi Psi vs. Psi U Alpha Dell vs Phi .Dell Sig1 Chi vs. Theta Delt THUS. OCT. 12 Fox vs. 1D Chi R.P.L Tries Short Game RPI football, which provided notoriety in its years of defeat for such achievements as failing to win in · 43 games, and last year having its quarterback quit after losing 31-14 to Union has now set another precedent. Sat. urday, the Engineers built a 41- r4 haUtime lead against hap- less H:averford, rolling up 432 yards total offense. Teams hlitVe ·had 27 point halftime leads be- fore, but the difference in this situati<Jn was that Haverford coach, Dana Swan, requested that :the final two quarters of the game be cut to twelve min- utes because his squad was \thin.\ RPI coach Ridendeau agreed, setting an NCAA prece- dent. The Engineers finally won 61-41. rmz·= II lltS6H ACDIAII/TIIJ SPEC I~& ... • JC3 Hamburger u.s. Gov:t.lnsp. All Beef •• 1 SO Cheeseb~rger,llelicious .... - ... - ... - .. 250 Double Burger, Double C1llcious ~ ..... ::Hie Double Chaeseb~rger ......... - ... - •• - .. 45 c filet ofFISh on.Toes!ed 8u!l .. ,._,_,29C Southam Fried Chickon with French fries ·~·~ .......... - .... - .. 690 thicken Bucket Dinnar fGrl - .. -US Chicken Buckel Dinner tor 6 ....... : .... 2.98 froncbFries, Golden Brown -··------150 Coca Cola ........................... *··--•*·1 0 o 011nge Drink ..... 100 Root Baar •.• -100 Milk .................... 150 Colfee .... -- .. 1Z\O Apple Turnover ........................ -.-15 0 Watson's Thick Shake, All Flavo1s .. _ •. 25 C !II American Dinner or lunclt• lfamburftr. French Frle~ & \'Ietson's th!ck Shaka 5!¢ Sche11ectady: Mcxorn Rd. & Nott Street · Opposite Bi.g N ' '. i 1

SKIDMORE CALENDAR Page 5 Concordy Sports Anti-,Draft Movement Page 4 sulted in a touchdown, the score coming oh a short pass from Pearce to Carlson. The same pair had set up the score by connecting on a 66-yard pass play off an adUb pattern. Half- time score: Union 16, St. Law- rence 0. paydirt from 11 yards out. Fol- score, highlighted by three fine lowing another St. Lawrence runs by James, the last hitting punt the Dutchmen moved the ball across midfield quickly, and then scored on a 43-yard pass· run play going from Kumpf to Swan. \Swan.ny\ made a fine catch, and then managed to Gridd:ers Stomp St. Lawrence., 43-21; King's Point Looms As Rugged Foe By LEN SiMON With a green St. Lawrence squad still licking its wounds in the background, the Garnet footballers step forward Satur· day to face one of their most formidable opponents, King's Point. The strong arms of sopho- mores .Scott Kumpf and Ken Pearce riddled the Larries de- fense for 331 yards and four touchdowns, while the Garnet defense stymied their offense completely until the result of the contest was out of question. Kumpf hit on 9 of 1'8 passes for 198 yards, while Pearce con- nected on 8 of 15 for 124 yards. On the receiving end, sopho· mores Craig Carlson and Rich Swan did the bulk of the work, as Carlson grabbed 10 for 197 yards and a touchdown, while Swan pulled in six for 98 yards and two scores. The ground attack was also efficient but not quite so spec- tacular, as junior Joe James and soph Kevin Monahan totalled 141 yards and each scored a touchdown. The offensive team mixed their plays well, with the air threat making the going easier for the ground attack, and vice-versa. and Swan combining on a 19- yard scoring play to culminate the drive. On their next drive the Garnet had to settle for a field goal by Joe James. During the second quarter the defense continued to stop St. Lawrence celd, and the of- fense managed to muster two long drives, one of which re• Opening the second half, the Garnet drove 68 yards for a The home forces wasted no time getting on the board as the defense held on a fourth and short yardage near mid. field, and the offense quickly pushed the pigskin in, Kumpf Joe James [25) runs for daylight as Kevin Monahan {40} and Tom Godfrey (80) clear the way. Quarterback Scott Kumpf is in the background. Photo by Dick Daniels Editors Week break several tackles on the way to the clincher. Art Jacobs added the extra point, and half- way through the third period, Union was in command 29-0. Player of the t~~*~*J~:~~~~;:~;~:~®~~~=~~=;~*:?:=~~r~s~tf:~=i=~~fJr:~~m~w~::;*:::::~::::?~::t.:~=~~~~:=:t~~~-::::::-{: ~=:= =·:~·::: :;~;):;::~ ~: ·.~:;t~~· .. ;:::;::~:~=:·::.::: . =· ·: ~;;:~ .. : .• ::·./~ ;::·f:~:: .. ::~;;:::~~t~:~)~t:j~:!;~u~~m~~:WtiliE~~;:;1l~~~~;t1~~~ililt::; BY Gary Prevost St. Lawrence finally broke through from the three to trail 29-7. When Monahan drove over from three yards away just after the fourth period began, the pressure was off. The Lar- ries managed to put together two successful drives to pull up to 36-21 with four minutes to play, and then senior reserve quarterback Bob Utecht and tailback Frank D' Antuono team- ed up for a one-yard pass into paydirt to leave the final tally at 43-21. This article is the first of a weekly series which will honor the Union College varsity inter- collegiate athlete who gives the best performance each week. The player will be chosen by the Concordiensis sports staff. Craig Carlson's first perform· ance as a varsity athlete at Un· ion was a memorable one. The :?·8, 155 pound wingback ran the St. Lawrence defensive sec· pJ;J.dary into the ground with his quick moves and fine pass- catcliing. The speedy sophomore ~augb,t 10 passes {or 197 yards '0 ! Cross Country Carlson hails from Hunting- ton, L. I., where he played foot· ball, basketball, and baseball, serving as captain of two of the three squads. Craig played halfback for the freshman foot- ball team last fall before mak- ing the switch to wingback this year. He was instrumental as the frosh gained a 2·2 record last year. This versatile athlete also played freshman basketball last year and was the second leading scorer on the team with 11.9 points per game. Coach Flood said of Carlson: \All of us knew he had great moves, good hands and was a tremendous competitor. His performance under pressure on Saturday proved all of this.\ and one touchdown in the Gar- net's routing of the Larries on Saturday. ANNOUNCEMENTS The Garnet Cross Country team continues to improve as it prepares for its openers next week. The frosh will travel to the Lenox Academy to begin their season October 10, while the varsity will open tile follow. ing day at Clarkson. Coach Lawrence has announc- ed that an an-college singles Last Tuesday, Coach Wilford terinis tournament will be held Ketz conducted a three-mile this fall. All entries must be speed trial to see exactly how' in Coach Lawrettce's office by well the squad is coming along. - Saturday noon. The frosh continue to look ex·· , ;~~•••••••••••ti tremely promising. Coach Ketz I i feels that sixteen minutes is the time to \shoot for\ at this distance. Any runner bettering such a time can be termed in his estimation, \A real fine FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate Admittance Yrlll bo donied ( •cl:\7l~l:.\\f.u ·.~ 1o all under 18 yee.rs of ego. PTC 0 X FORD ••••••••• 0 •••• 4 •• 0 ••••••••••• 5th AVE. AT 112th 235·1803 North Troy, N. Y. UNION 50c Discount with this coupon to students • • • • • • 0 ••••••••••••••••••••• JAMES JOYCE'S \ULYSSES\ Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch of Holland in Schenectac:ly Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 1617 Union St. Phone 374-5770 Craig Carlson King's Point now stands at 0·2, losing close contests with Temple (number one small col- lege in the east) and Gettys- burg. They should give the Garnet one of their roughest tests of the season, and a vic- tory over the Mariners would make this year look like one of the biggest Union has ever had. NO ARGUME..-.:!\ HERE! ·BEST DIIINER VALUE IN TOWN! BARREL 0' CHICKEN • 21 pieces of Chicken • Hot Flaky Biscuits • Tasty Clover Honey Parkwood Blvd at Rugby Rd. Dial 393-3631 ------------------------------ Booters Bow 4-2; Okello Nets Two The Garnet hooters opened their season yesterday with a very uninspired loss to previ- ously winless University of Hartford, 4-2. The Hawks had lost 24 consecutive games over a three year period and were 0·2 on the year before yester- day's victory. Robert Okello scored both Union goals. Musumeci opened the scoring for Hartford with a goal mid- way through the first period but Okello followed minutes later on an assist from Mi'ke Solomon to knot the game at 1·1. The second period was scoreless though the Garnet at- tack unit and defense kept the ball in Hartford territory con- sistently. Scored Two Hartford scored two goals in the third period to establish a 3-1 lead for the Hawks. The Garnet played a very lackadais· ical third period as the attack unit. managed only four shots at the visitors goal. The insertion of Dave Barton '71 Booters Try ••Tight'' T earn The 1967 edition of the Fresh- man soccer team looks to be a solid one, with excellent pros- pects for a highl successful sea- son. Coach Robert Benson sees the squad as one with a good deal of promise. However the short time in which they have practiced has not yet proven sufficient to mold a really ef- fective unit. Skills There With little more than two weeks of practice under its belt the team is molding int~ shape. Coach Benson is work· ing at increasing the co-opera- tion that is necessary between team members in any sport. As he sees it, the frosh can become an excellent team, but still neer more work. \The skills are there, but the team is not yet a unit.\ On paper at least, the skills seem to be \there.\ The thirty- three man team averages two Continued on Page 7 ( } and Dave· Pitinos in the front lme late in the third period gave th:e Garnet front line more speed hut a goal by Samii of Hartford early in the last period made the score 4-1. The Garnet hooters played a strong fourth period but their only goal of the period was scored unassisted by Okello with seven minutes l'emaining. Had 33 Shots In all •the Dutchmen had 33 shots at goal against only 15 by their opponents, but the lack of one good pass in the goal area continually- plagued the Garnet. Center half Brian Gillie and reserve ~ullack Bo MacKenzie cantributed fine performances · the Garnet, and three front liners, Barton, Okello, and Solo- mon gave commendable per- formances. especially in the fourth pel'iod when they pressed the action. The Garnet need a far better ~arne next Ti.!es~a~ at Trinity If they are to g1ve 'the always strong Bantams a battle. SCOREBOARD AND SCHEDULE This Woe k's ·Gomes; FOOTBALL Saturday Unio\ P !Q) at King's Poirt 10·21 WRUC .J>lay-by-play, I :30 P.M. Sixth rneeting-last year Union 7, King's Point 7. SOCCER Tuesday-Union at Trinity Wednesday-Union [F) at Middlebury CROSS-COUNTRY Tuesday-Union [F) at Lenox Wednesday-Union at Clarkson tast week's results1 FOOTBALL Union 43, St. Lawrence 21 IICAC) SOCCER Hartford 4, L'n ion 2 ICAC RESULTS Alnd 20, Hobart 15 OTHERS ~\·tt· sburg U, King's Point 13 RPI 61, H overlord 14 Rochester 4:2, Hamilton 21 Wd ioms. 13, Trini·ty lJ A GINIUSAT WOOU.Y THINKING . Such is the Proprietor, and proud ·of it. In. sweaters of lamb's woollen, none have thought longer and with greater concentra- tion than he. One solution s:hown. Others to be seen at the Gentleman's convenience. BY LORD JgFF I e.98 . The 1f1 ~quirt ~~np OPEN TUESDAY AND THURSDAY TILL 9 P.M •. . 326 STATE STREET, SCHE~ECTADY • • IS ' - Vol. 97- L~ · Fo1 By On ~epte l)egan at l academic ye new housin: ation. The full-time st The only e> dents, stud rooms, and This pori( by many s1 the spring cordiensis ~ dents livinl desire? An the replies felt that th living shoul Neverthel Cht1 Of~ For' Memorial· ed to get students~ When Me outstanding cal chimes neglect, thi of campus ' a ted. Professor ogy Depart ago when could liste being pla: Chapel chir the campm chimes wou ventional C In order part of the ally-minded who would a grant-in Wersten of to get the I Secondly, r would be n In their 1 condition th give enjom a little ha again becm the Union The chap renee W · tural White. installe L According are an enlar covering atn sharps and play the ch quarter hou nine times twelve time, The chim1 ace chains the bell le' level to the sten said U maintenance clappers foi aligned.

• . front period line 5 Samii last The strong only scored seven had 33 15 by l:ack of 1 . area Garnet. and front Solo- per- in the pressed better Trinity always 7, ' WEST COLLEGE DRESS Page3 SKIDMORE CALENDAR Page2 Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 97 - No. 4 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1 2, 1967 PRICE 1'5 CENTS Larger Student Body . Forces Policy Revie-w By N. J. GORDON On September twenty-first classes [iegan ·at Union for the 1967-1968 academic year. At the same time the new housing p~li~y we~t into oper- ation. The pollcy reqmres that all full-time students live on campus. The only exceptions are married stu- dents, students working for their rooms, and commuters. Contested This policy is vigorously contested by many students. A poll taken in the spring of last year by the Con- cordiensis asked: Do you favor stu- dents living off-campus if they so desire? An overwhelming 90% of the replies indicated that students felt that the question of off-campus living should be an individual choice. Nevertheless the policy is in effect. According to Richard W. Lucas, Di- rector of Residence Programs and Assistant ·to the Dean of Students, there are 1058 students now Hving in college•owned housing on campus. Fifteen students were authorized to live off-campus by the Financial Aid Office. The rest live in fraternity houses or oom~ute. Last year .planhimd. been for aU students to live· ori\ campus with the completion _of the new dorms but strikes and construction delays forced the completion ·date back to early De- cember and later to till February. Stu- dents who were living off-campus at that time were informed that they would be reqllired to move back on campus at the beginning of the sec- ond term and should break any leases necessary to mov<J onto campus. Con- tinued delays in Cliinstruction forced · the college to permit those students Continued on Page 5 Chapel Chitnes In Need Of Drastic Overhaul For years the extensive system of chimes in the belfry of Memorial Chapel have not been in usuable conditi<m. All this is need- ed to get them back in operation is a little hard work by a few students and small financial assistance from the College. _ When Memorial Chapel as built, an outstanding and valuable set of musi- cal chimes was installed. Because of neglect, this once. delightful aspect of campus life has seriously deterior- ated. Music Heard Professor Huntley of the Psychol- ogy Department recalls some years ago when Union undergraduates could listen to the College songs being played on the Memorial Chapel chimes as they walked across the campus. At Christmas time the chimes would ring out. all of the con- ventional Christmas carols. In order to restore this attractive part of the Union campus a mechanic- ally-minded student must be found who would be willing to work under a grant-in-aid with Mr. William Wersten of the Physics Department to get the bells in working condition. Secondly, musically-talented students would be needed to play the bells. Bad Condition Union's sour t::himes Committee Recommends Comp. Ed. Renaissance Frosh Choose Profs .. , Seniors to Serve in Tri-Cities Area By-RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. Incoming freshman will soon be able to choose their Profess()l'S with- in the Comp Ed. ( CED) program and seniors in the Comp. Ed. wili spend a minimum of two weeks of intensive internship with community and public organizations in the Tri- Cities area if proposals put forth by the Special Summer Committee on Undergraduate programs are adopted. Other proposals and recommenda- tions include the establishment of a 3•5 year program for earning the bachelors and masters degree, the abolition of all non-credit courses 1 creation of the office of Director OI Student Affairs, a larger educational role for Jraternities, a refurnished West College dining hall, a co-ed Union, and new standarized proced- ures for evaluating faculty. Summer Committee The Summer Committee, consisting of Profs. Finkelstein, Lowen, Shick 1 and Dean of the Faculty L()ckwooa met throughout the month of July. In- troducing 1ts report to the faculty and Trustees, the committee stated \we believe that the • . . chllllges we rec- ommend will contribute materially to a better college environment for stu- dents and faculty.\ The committee concluded that the college would have to carry the financial burden of these changes, and added that it is not likely to receive any outside support · until it has demonstrated achieve- ment. In reviewing the CED program the committee agreed that the college \should continue its commitment to Comp. Ed. until at least 1971-72\ wr..ile making certain useful changes. At the freshman and senior levels, 'the most fruitful educational pro- gram must foster intimate, personal, maturing and creative experience.\ Suggestions that the \middle years\ be similarly oriented were rejected as \neither educationally necessary, we believe, or economically feasible.\ Instead it was proposed that the mid- dle two years of CED be \ones in which the CED OJ?tions are given in large lecture sections.\ Freshman Year Program Freshmen, the report noted, are \motivated by strong vocational in- terests. We think that we can most fruitfully take advantage of these in- terests by emphasizing subject matter which relates more directly to their personal needs and interests than CED 10 or 11.\ 'To foster closer student-faculty re- lationships, the freshman CED pro- gram would, under the committee pro- posal, become a ••single 20 week unit with one preceptor.\ There would be Professor Finkelstein, chairman of the committee to study undergraduate life. no more than 15 students in any one class, and preceptors would have com- plete choice of teaching methods. Some examples of courses designed better relate to student needs and desires are: literature and the ghetto, the happening as art, sex and sexu- ality, drugs and consciousness, popu- lation and birth control, and others. In order for freshman to be able to choose the professor with whom they wish to study, \incoming fresh- men W'Ollld receive a brochure con- taining brief biographies and academic interests of faculty members who would serve as preceptors,\ as well as a description of CED and its goals, before arrival at Union. During Orien- tation in September, the freshman would indicate his choice for precep- tor. This professor would also serve as his advisor for the year. It is hoped that this plan will lift the freshman CED program \to a new level of interest, involvement and re- sponsibility.\ 'The program in the middle years will be designed \to encourage stu• dents to further their interest and competence beyond their fields of pro- fessional interest.\ Consequently, the Coed Union Debated, Student Poll Opposes \'Healthier College\ report recommends that the CED courses for these years ·\not sub- stantially duplicate departmental off~ erings.\ In any one academic year, no more than seven CED courses per center would be offered as ·options. Average class size in these lecture courses would be about 115 students. Work-Stvdy The senior CED program will likely see some practical and .innovative changes. Stating that \our concern in senior CED is to relate the stu- dents education to a realistic under- standing of his community,\ the com- mittee proposed \integrated work- study program involving teams of 4-6 students working on prearranged as- signments\ with the many community and public organizations in the area. Students would begin during the Spring Term of their Junior year t() observe, study and familiarize them- selves with their work assignments. This would be followed by a :minimum. of two weeks of intensive internship. During the fall term of the senior year, the student would participate in a seminar experience concerning the work period and directed by the faculty. CED Board To encourage experimentation and;. innovation, as well as to ,c()ordinate and administer the entire programr it was proposed that a CE:D Boara. be established. In the second part of the commit- tee's report, concerned with under- graduate education as a whole, the main proposal calls for the institution of a program whereby a student could earn his bachelors degree in three years and his masters in five. The committee citd Union's \oppor- tunity to encourage a more creative undergraduate curriculum by utilizing a more flexible approach to the time needed for a degree. It is clear t() us that there is no deep-seated justi- fication for maintaining tile lengtlt of college studies at a rigid four Continued on Page 5 Borough President To Speak On Constitutional Convention Herman Badillo, borough president of the Bronx and delegate to the New York State Constitutional Con- vention will address a Convocation at 11:30 a.m. Tuesday Oct. 17, at the Memorial Chapel. He was appointed chairman 9f the convention Committee on Health. Housing and Social Services. Badillo's convocation t()pic will be the constitutional convention. In their present rusted and warped condition the Memorial Chapel chimes give enjoment to no one, but with a little hard work they can once again become an attractive asset to the Union campus. Blaine Issue Stirs Co.ntroversy President of BronK Since the beginning of 1966, Bradillo has been Bronx Borough. president. For four years prior t() that, he was commissioner of the De- partment of Rel()cation of New York City. The chapel was designed by .Lau- rence WE-ofdhe. great architech- tural f' McKim, Kneed and White. , ' \'clock and chimes were installe ,,s:Oon after. Large Doorbell According to Wersten the chimes are an enlarged version of a doorbell, covering approximately 13 tones, With sharps and flats. The clock is set to play the chimes three time on the quarter hour, six times on the half~ nine times on the three-quarter ana twelve times on the hour. The chimes are operated by furn- ace chains which hang down from the bell level through the playing level to the clock mechanism. Wer- sten said they mostly need routine maintenance although some of the clappers for the bells must be re- aligned. By ltiCIIARD BALAGUR Dr. Leo Pfeffer, chairman of the department of political science at Long Island University, Monday night accused Anthony Travia, president of the Constitutional Convention, of using the chucll as a tool to push through his constitution. Speaking to the Freedom Forum in Linton H.S., Pfeffer said the state demands \quid pro quo\ from the church for the support of repeal of the Blaine Amendment. In turn, he said, the church must support the entire package_ Rt. ltev. Msgr. McCarren, director of the Research Institute of Catholic Education of New York, speaking for the new constitution, replied, \I have a greater obligation to vote for the new constitution than I do against the Blaine Amendment.\ See End of Public Schools Pfeffer called repeal of the amend- ment \of unequaled importance con- stitutionally in the history of the United States.\ \The greatest gift America gave to civilization is that of the free com- mon public schoof system,\ Pfeffer said. If Blaine is repealed, it will mark the end of public schools except in a limited way, he said. ·. A greater and greater percentage of funds will go to private scb.ools, re- sulting in an exodus from the public schools, since .every .parent who can, will place his child in private school, Pfeffer said. A study of a similar development regarding hospitals showed a .greater and greater percentage of public funds going to private rather than public hospitals. Public schools, Pfeffer maintained, will end up the home for th()se on the lowest rung of the socio-economic ladder. The system will be for the disadvantaged· and rejected that no other school wants. State Would Control Church The state can guarantee full re- ligious freedom because it will not finance and support religion, said Pfeffer. \If the state finances re- ligion, it will use the same power to regulate and control the church, as it done in Communist countries, be- cause they find it to their advantage to support and control religion,\ he said, Msgr. McCarren avoided the direct issue of the Blaine Amendment in his speech, stating, \I am not wor- ried about the separation of church and state. We have the First Amend- ment for that.\ \Blaine should be repealed now, or it will come up again for four years. I would like to see it settled now. The question is whether we can get enougll assistance to save the private schools,\ said McCarren. Five Reasons for Passage Msgr. McCarren gave five reasons why the new sonstitution should be passed. · First. the new formula of state aid to schools gets aid to areas that need ·it most. The assumption of wel- fare costs at the state level is also necessary. He •also cited the repeal of the Blaine Amendment and the new 'higher education provisions of the constitution as essential. Lastly, loans for community development will pro- vide a partnership between business and tlle state to further slum im- provement. \: Audience senti:ment all.Peared to run strongly against repeal of the Blaine Amendtn~nt. Only four· out of Continqed on PageC~ .. S -.,. . ... Former Mayor Wagner named Ba- dillo the first commissioner of that newly-created department. In addition to being a lawyer, Ba- dillo is a Certified Public Accountant. He has had experience as a member of both a law and CPA firn. He has represented both Spanish and non- Spanish-speaking people in civil and criminal cases. His other special civic appoint- ments include membership in Mayor Wagner's anti-poverty bomd of the City of New York, the mayor's housing executive committee and the Presi• dent's Committee for Community Re- lations. DE·MONSTRATION A meeting will be held tonight at 7:30 P M., in Hale Hollse Stu- dent Lounge to discuss plans. for the anti-draft protest demonstr- . ation on October 16, at 10:00 AM., · at the Albany Induction Center.

2 Grau Defeats Merz, Flynn for ACC Post Gerard Grau was elected to the All College Council in heavy balloting Wednesday night. Gvau defeated Kenne~h Merz :392 to 193 in the final electio11~ Thomas Flynn's acqms- ition of 109 write-in votes came as s<Jmething of a surprise. At least one candidate complained that the elections were not given enough publicity and lllany students were not aware of polling places or times. The All College Council is tlle main governing body of Union. It is cemposed of a majority of students and minority of faculty members, with tvvo of the student mem- bers elected at-large. Other Members Other members are the president. of the study body, In- ter-Fraternity Council, the Inter-Residence Council, a mem- ber elected from the Student Council, the Dean of Students and the Dean of the Faculty and tluee faculty members. In the primary election '!1uesday, the field of five candidates, Gerald Grau, Eugene KClk.ot, Kenneth Mel'z, Rich- ard Patterson Jr., and Abby Stillman, was narrowed to the two who taHied the higest total, Grau and Merz. Grau, a semor, is a member of Student Council aad was an unsuccessful candidate for the All College Coundl last spring. SNOW JOBS BEGIN WITH A BOTTLE OF :FINE WINE FROM OUR DOUWE AUKES' CELLAR - HEilDQUARTERS FOR THE MAN WHO KNOWS WHAT HE WANTS PHIL ENGLEI3ARDT'S Checks Cashed 511 Union Street FR 2-4788 Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Down Town Scl1e neciacly FREE FRO G -E- - E· SE,:'\.:~E . - : . .. .,r .. . . i . . . . I : :;.,. . ·.• . ,- ' Rathskellar Maintenance Discussed By Council Last '1:otesday night the Stu- many questions the Council rep- dent Co-uncil ended' an hour of resentatives had on the functions discussion by el(lcting two stu- Mr. Schmidt renominated the dent representatives. to the Rath- and duties of the 'Board mem- skeHar ]3()ard, Ca l·vin :Schnnctt, hers. These amount centered CoHege tl:'easurer and member around the maintainence of the of the Board, :answered the equipment used in the Ratskel- IJI'olt:~l S£hedal~;d Pickettlng, leafletting and possiblr a .sit-in will mark the Albany })art of a nationwide sup- f)ort in conjllnction with draft cards b.eing tumed in in l\J ew York. Cit)' on October 16. The Resistance is an <Jrganization ex- pressing its disapproval ot dratt .Jaws as they stand now and in- directly protesting for those who do- not wish to fight in Vietnam but arc: forced to do so. Demonstratms from Albany State, Union and Skidmore will demonstvate :their opposition to military ()Onscri:Ption. Stude nt:s will rneet at 7:30 Thursdll.y in Hale House with anyone (lOncerned with the Draft or wishing to protest. ler. Under the Board's by-laws, present members for a second term. The motion passed. This was followed by a list of the social functions to which members of the council are in- vited. Several reports were given concerning the grounds, the three phases in the construction of the Science and Engmeeermg Center, and coffee hours. Other suggestions made to the commit- tee heads pertained to stop signs in the parking lot and decora- tive garbage cans on campus. Towards the end of the meet- ing the only .two proposed mo- tions were tabled Without de- bate. One dealt with proposing more controversial and student oriented convocations to the Lectures and Concerts Commit- tee. The other proposed remov- ing the requirement of chap- erones at social functions held on campus. I UNION CALENDAR - ,_. Friday,. Oct. 13: Freshman Football vs. Trinity, 3:00PM, Away. Varsity i:loccel:' v~~o St. Lawrence, 3:00 PM, Away. Jim. ['aLbeit {folk music) and Cliff Safane• Jazz Quartet, Rath- Satmday, Oct. 14: Varsity Football vs. Rochester. 1:30 PM, Home. Varsity Soacer vs. Clarkson, 2:00 PM, Away. Fresllman Soccer vs. New Paltz, 12:00 Noon, Home. skeller, 9:0() PM. Monday, ()ct. 1:6: Inter-Residence Council Meeting, 7:30 PM. Hale House Student Lounge. Tuesday, (Jet. 17: Convocation, Herman Badillo, Bronx: Borough Preside:nt~ \The Constitutional Convention,\ 11:30 AM, Memorial Chapel. Var:sity Soccer vs. Hamilton, 2:30 PM, Home. Vat'sLty Cm~s-Country vs. Vermont, 3:00 PM, Home. Fresllmall Cmss-Country vs. Vermont, 2:30 PM, Home. Inter-Fraten1ity Council Meeting, 7:00 PM, Hale House Stu- dent L()unge. WecdiJ.esday,, Oct. 18: Freshman Soccer vs. Williston, 2:30 PM, Home. Fresllma11. Cross-Country vs. WiHiston, 3:00 PM, Hvme. Thwsday. Oct. 19: Varsity Soccer vs. Middlebury, 2:30 PM, Home. Fl'iid~ty, ()ct. 20: Navy Recruiting Team, 10:00 .AM-4:00 PM, Hale House. Film i:leries~ \Gertrud 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Social Science Building 016. Organ Recital, Hugh Allen Wilson, 8:00 PM:, Memorial ChapeL Fresl1ma11 F'ootl>all vs. Hobart, 2:30 PM, Home. Saturday, Od. 21: Varsity Football vs. RPI, 1:30 PM, Away. Varsity Soccer vs. RPI, 12:00 Noon, Away. Fresb.man S()ccer vs. RPI, 2:00 PM, Away. Varsity Cxoss·C()untry vs. RPI, 12:30 PM, Away, Fresltman Cmss-Country vs. RPI, 12:30 PM, Away. Tuesday, Oct. 24: Film: \Voyage of the Plloenix,\ sponsored by the VLetnarn Committee, 8:00 pm, SS. 016. Sl< IDM0RE CALENDAR · Momciay, OctC)ber 16: Lecture sponsored by Department of Government, \Refledions on the Constitutional Convention\ by Dr. Leo:n F. Cohen, Assistant Professor of Political Science,S.U.N.Y., Albany, 7:30 :p.ru., Recreation Center. Thursday, Oct<Jber 19: Italian movie spons()red by Department of Mod.ern Languages, \Anatomy of Love,\ 7:30 p.m., Language Center. there's one place that does it! • Welch R.ep'airs • Dic1nonds Reset • JeV~elry Repaired- \NORK D 0 N'E e Rings Sized • Engraving • Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES --- J& V Jl:'WEUI U..m.I. COMPIIIY 316 Stat& Street. Schene<ctady FR 4-8219 Thursday, October 1.2, 1'9~7 Union Hos.ts Annual A.S.E.E. Co11'Vention The Upper New York-Ontario. Quebec section of the American Society of Engmeermg ~au.d­ tion held its annual meetmg on Union's campus last weekend. Some 150 membeJ;s and the:r wives arrived on Friday t:> be- gin the two-day convent.on .c!>n· sistiug of speeches emrhasiZmg the interchange of ideas, in- formal discussion, ttouring, and socializing. Speaking at Friday night's awards banquet was Dr. Arthur M. Bueche, viee president, Gen- eral Etectric Research and De· velopment Center. Recipient of the award for teaching excel· lence was Herbert B. Voelcher from the University of Roches• ter. He received $500, and a cer- tificate of recBgnition from Western Electric. Bringing focus directly on the needs of engineering education, the discussion topic was \The Impact of Systems Theory on Engineering.\ Although the to pic was seemingly unrelated to either student or teacher, dis- course r~nged from the relation- ships between computers,. teach- ers, and students to instilling creativity in the individual stu- dent. Such stin~ulation, necessary to an intellectual community, aroused new interest in such subjects as practicality versus cost factors in the purchasing of computers and industries' de- sire for more broadly-educated personnel. While the delegates we1:.e en• gaged in the professional :pw· gram, their wives folloV!ed a seperate schedule. The ladies visited the M:ae::Y· Sears Colonie Shopping Ce:nter on Friday afternoon. On .Satlll'· day, they visited Scbellel!btdy-~s old and attractive homes in be Stockade, a six-block area about a mile from the callL]IIJ.S. There the tour ended in ·the ga:rc den of the Governor Yates House where the ladies ·ltlade corsages under the direction. of Professor Harlow. Harold Mosher, director·of the Kodak Park Engineering ])j. vision of Eastman Kodak Corn. pany, delivered the ke:ynote ad' dress Saturday morning, James D. P~lmer, Deaa of the Center of Science and ili:ll· gineering, served as 1prot;n111. chairman foar the t\Wc.-day event. Scfwfarahipa --4wa..llllJ The following students have· been awarded Prize ;S(lho'luc ships in the amount of $100each .for the academic yea:t; 196rl,68: John C. Anes, :Mich.~el S. Balkin, Robert M. Barkan,, Faul A. Beals, John R. Berger, David W. Best, Paul A. Grayson. l\ollg las E. Hatch, Michael S. MuU man, Richard E. Patterson, :Eric H. Singer, Eric S. St:r.atlss, llilU'· tin A. Strosberg, Edward L. 'Val' entine and Benjamin Volinski.. Stage Set f'or Three Plays in November The Union College Depart- Eyes\ in Deathwatch will be n:ent of the Arts, the 1'\ott l\Ie- Gary Fidel. John She1>berd 1vill morial Theater, and the Mounte- play Maurice, John R.oac::h the banks have anncunced the part of LeFranc with Colin 1\'[C· forthcoming student production Gowan playing the Guard. The of Samuel Beckett's Waiting for five male parts in Chekhov's Godot, to be directed by Jeff Celebration will }>e :fillect by DeMunn, '69. Dean Hoffman, Michael Halper· The play will run Thursday, son, Donald House, Alan 1\i[[)O· Friday and Saturday, November die, and William Kni:pscher. 9-11. A special November 8 per- Two female roles remain t<J l:Je formance will be given for area cast. 'Ihe two players in Tile high school students. Dumbwaiter, to be directed l:Jy Casts for three ()ne.act plays, Robert Thurber, '68, will IJe to be pl'esented at the Theater Jim Gallagher and Harxy Miller. in November, have also been announced. The three plays are Jean Genet's Deathwatth, An· ton Chekhov's Celebration, and Harold Pinter's 'I'he Dumb- waiter. Playing the part Qf \Green An other bill of one•acts will be announced shortly. N'evor ap· plicants are urged to -~l?f{)U:t for these plays, and will Be co nsid- ered along with those vrho read for the first group <>f Olle-aets. THE PEAHOT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT· ROAS1EIJ: PEANUTS • lS 31'9' lS 901:Jo \PIJOM a41 and Nutmeats from clll ()V~r DARI TREE-1 2-count 'em-2 shocking bl.ue paper wall pennants, 28lf2 inches long. Color up yourwalls this easy way ... and brighten up yol.:lr life with snow- cold,. crystal-clearGenesee Beer~ It's jtlst' a·tittle more RESTAURA~T 2049 Van Vranken A.ve CHAR-BROILED exciting than any other beer.· To get your free pennants just send your name and address on a post-~ card to: Genesee Banners, P.O. Box 1571, GENES_ EE Rochester, N.Y. 14603 Offer void where prohibited by law. -~ 1.~ . STEAK DINNER $.1 .5() BEEFBURGER PLATTER $11 J() w/Fr. Fries & Vegetoble FR 7-4261 Thursday, Every d; troop dow meal. And nattily atti As they the feelin1 as they g; And the n preciates t up for dim ionally tQ : newe&t Un And, ef · that his Ur up for hirr Irving, tha tonight,\ a1 swinging C< But, alas the ruling. the dinner more than not garbec Glancing o bermudas, is left wit: between th Besides nearly two expressed \I don't we look,\ 1 what incor and a coal Paul Br~ is a reside dines, shar as soon h~ irrelevant.' Larry PE The G~ After m Union Coil through a Mary, one Nautical e that the gr as a new r Yorkers, in possibility 1 off Monte 1 game, can bygone era The sur:t: aroused va alumni wh< the purcha: the Dean named, ex] accomodatic institutions college to 1 and, incide of going tc more room edly planni its cramped ·• in Bronner orientation paper will quarters in college has vessel mair per studen1 The grea students, o PLAY JAY L 11 Spe Col I Accompar 01~ 1617 Ur

.2, 1'9~7 wet:.e :en• Jll'()· a M:ae::Y· Ce:riter .Satu- in .the area cam_ ]IlLS. JSU'' r Yates ·Jnade of the ,J)j. Corn. ac:IL of and £11· :progralll b.v()o•day nts have' :S :cho'llll'' ch2el S. Faul David :&o11g, s_ MttU son, :Eric l\1a.t• L. 'Val' s..,.,.1 will be berd 1vill <>ach the 11'[ C· The by RaJper· 1\bo- bo lJe in Tlte l:ly will lJe Miller. ·will .N'G\V !lp· {)Q\t f ()!' co 11sid· who re~d ··· olle-aets. or A.ve $1 .5() $;1 J() Thursday, October 1 2, 1967 '' • And They All Just Look The Same\ • • By PA.UL ANDREWS Every day some 400 Union freshman dutifully troop down to West College for their. dinner meal. And my, but don't they look nice, all nattily attired in their coats and ties? As they file through the line, you can sense the feeling of awe from the myriad bypassers as they gaze upon theimpeccable Class of '71. And the nice man at the ticket table really ap- preciates the fact that all the frosh have dressed up for dinner. So do the ·cooks, who :pause occas- ionally tQ reflect up()U the pristine beauty of the newm;t Union cr,op. Frosh Appreciation And, of course, each freshman is truly grateful that his l.Jnion brethren took the trottble to dress up for him. You can catch comments like, \Hey Irving, that's a pretty sharp outfit you've got on tonight,\ and \Horatjo baby, where'd you get that swinging coat and tie?!\ But, alas, student opinion generally runs against the ruling. Of 513 bodies who passed through the dinner line one evening, 182, or a little more than one out of .every tP:ree students were not garbed in coat and tie. Quite th!l contrary. Glancing aver the colorful array of surfer shirts, bermudas, paisley ties and madras jackets, one is left with the impression that all is not well between the students and the ruling. Prevailing Opinion Besides this explicit rejection of the ruling, nearly two out of every three students interviewed expressed displeasure with the practice. \I don't see the point in regulati11g the way we look,\ said history major Dave Posner, some- what incongruously attired in shorts, moccasins and a coat and tie. Paul Bryant, Professor of Economics who also is a resident adviser in West College, where he dines, shared the same viewpoint: \I would just as soon have it done away with - it's sort of irrelevant.\ Larry PeHish, head RA at West, said that he didn't \see anything necessary about the rule.\ He cited the irrelevance of apparel when eat· ing at home: \It doesn't detract from the at- mosphere or cohesiveness of the family when they are informally dressed at dinner,\ he said. Pellish also pointed out, \The packaging doesn',t mean anything, it's what's behind the packaging that counts.\ Civil engineering major Kenny Berkowitz, who wore \sneakers a T-shirt and a tie\ to one dinner, said he could see applying the rule to \Weekends or maybe just Sunday,\ but that it should not pertain to weekdays when studeiits are \just goofing off.\ Pre-med student George DeMartino agreed: ~·r could see wearing coats and ties during the week- These \uncivilized\ Union students did not con· form to West College dress standords and were forced to dine ot the Von Dyck. (Notice tlu raucous atmosphere) end. when we might have visitors, but during the week we're around the same guys we see every day,\ he argued. Many other students felt that the rule was 'pointless,'' a \nusiance\ and \unnecessary.\ Some students felt that the rule should either be stringently enforced or disbamled. \Everyone or no one should have to wear coats and ties,\ said phjlosophy major Alan Moodie. This view was echoed by Dean of Humanities and Social Studies Mavtin Lichterman, who said that the rule was \meaningless\ if not .actively enforced. Tradition But that is not to say that all opinion dis- favored the rule. Edward Pollock, Dean of Stu- dents, and Jonathan Pearson, Director of Admin- sions, stood staunchly behind the administration on the matter. Dean Pollock described the prac- tice a~ \traditional\ at Union. He said that Union maintained the policy because, \as an educa- tional institution, we feel that at least one meal a day ought to be of a civilized nature.\ The Dean said he felt that it ·didn't \seem to be asking too much\ ·Of students to wear coats and ties to dinner. When asked about the suggestion to limit the ruling to just weekends, Pollock said, \We can be civilized during the week, too.\ He pointed out that during one .period when the rule had been suspended students had started throwing food and that a \raucous atmosphere\ had prevailed. He said the administration was forced to put the ruling back into effect. \We haven't had trouble since then,\ he said. (One student, when informed of the Dean's explanation of the policy, said, \I know just what Dean Pollock means. One night at dinner I . was just kidding around and I pulled off my roommate's tie. We11, after that the guy really went crazy. He started screaming and ju.mping around and throwing food, really, acting in a completely uncivilized manner. It took five of us to get his tie back on him, but after that he acted very civilized. It's a good thing we have that rule or wewould really have a raucous atmosphere,\ he concluded.) Pollock said that the administration was trying to make Union \something just a little bit special and out of the ordinary\ in advocating the policy_ He said that the ruling is suspended before anci during exam periods and during the spring ia warm weather. Director of Admissions Jonathan Pearson saici he thought wearing coats and ties to dinner in- stilled more personal pride in the student for Union. He said that \morale tends to be lower\ where uniformity in costume does not exist. Stvclent Echos Some students also favored the ruling. Science major Dave Karp said he thought that \at one time during the day we should dress up: It raises the status of the school,\ he explained. Scott Wagar, a biology major, said, \I think:. it's a pretty good idea at least once in the day. It's not that much of a bother.\ West College RA Neil Gordon called the ruling: an \inconvenience but a practical inconvenience.\ He said coats and ties created a better atmosphere for dinner. Mark Goldstein, another West RA, took a :mor,e adamant stand on the issue: \I think it's a very good idea and should be continued. That includes no jeans, too.\ But probably one of the most provocative ·questions raised on the topic was that of a youllg gentleman decked out in an orange surfer shirt, cut-offs, and sneakers, who asked, \Who'd dress up for this food?\ But this is another story in itself. Patriots and· Americans .. By ALAN ZIEGLER The Credibility Gape:~: ·· .~ \ \My country right or wrong\ is one of the most widely used (or abused) quotes today. It is most often invoked by defenders of the War who stand on their patriotic stilts and chastize those who have the audacity to criti- cize murder. God Save The Queen; Who'll Save Union? Support for one's country \right or wring\ is a chauvinistic, 1984 sentiment which reduces the individual to a mere submissive, mindless servant of the forces that prevail. Advocates of After many months of tedious negotiation, Union College last week announced its purchase, through a Sicilian organization, of the Queen Mary, one of the last of the great ocean liners. Nautical enthusiasts will be relieved to learn that the great ship will n()t be sold for scrap or as a new ride for Disneyland. Sympathetic New Yorkers, in particular, who had worried over the possibility that she might be permanently moored off Monte Carlo as a sort of super floating crap game, can now relax since this symbol of a bygone era will rest safely in Schenectady. Reoctions listing in the ranks or joining A.F.R.O.T.C.,. Vlill now have the opportunity to train for Navy R.O.T.C. on board a real ship without leaving the campus. Preliminary negotiations with tll.e Army have revealed the possibility that students may practice jumping off the bow into Jacks()n's Gardens in simulation of Vietnam jungle-d.ro:p missions. The physical plant of the school will undo11bt· edly gain in both beauty and efficiency when ()!le of the Queen's colossal propellors is used to ste:p up the circulation of \the creek that ree:ks/' drawing water in and pushing it out in order to maintain a steady pressure for the water sup- ply. In answer to a petition from the independ· ents, the administration has promised to run a pipe from the ship's boilers to Fox and Davidso:n Halls so that the freemen can have some warmth and hot water. Roll the Queen The surprise move by the administration has aroused various reactions among students and alumni who would like to know the motives for the purchase. The only available school official, the Dean of Students, who has not yet been named, explained that the tremend()llS luxury accomodation would place Union ahead of other institutions in respect to housing, enable the college to continue to expand the student body, Since there is no direct route from the Atlan- and, incidentally,, give future classes the option tic to Jackson's Gardens, skeptics have already of going to school first or tourist :class. With raised the question of how the college expects more room to spare, the administration is report- to bring its purchase home. The Engineering edly planning to move the Concordy office from Departments have submitted a plan to float the its cramped quarters in the second floor bathroom liner up the Mohawk River to the point nearest , in Bronner House, which is badly needed as an Schenectady and then dig a canal. The Mainte- orientation room for incoming dorm mothers. The nance Staff has calculated th,at the project W()Ulrl paper will probably go to more comfortable take them approximately 135 years with their quarters in the ship's No.. 2 engine room. The present manpower. An informed source high up college has. been forced to cover the costs of in the Athletic Department has proposed a m.ore vessel maintenance I:Jy raising '63-'69 costs $200 feasible solution. Once the ship has been moverl per student. as close as possible to Union by water, Union men and their dates can roll the Queen Mar:y The great vessel has other advantages. Union on several thousand empty acetylene torch fuel students, once trapped between eventually en- cylinders, a few people carrying the bottles t() ,==~-=-=--====~=~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;.;·..;;;;.:;.;;-;;... -··- ·---- ~. ---- RELAX! L. G. BALFOUR CO. Gershon's PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY Bl LLIARO LOUNGE 167 Jay Street Specia.l Price For College Students ladies Free Accompanied by Gentl&ma:n· CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Grouse Ave. ·~\:~a~ N.Y. 132HI Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. ... :&y STEVE FOX lay down in the path of the vessel once they roll out the back, while everyone else pushes. People can thus show their love for Union in a constructive way and build his (or her) body at the same time. As a further incentive, the De- partment will classify the project a legitimate activity with <me maintenance and a half for each hour of overtime. Utopia! The presence of the ship on campus will realize (at last!) the utopian design for Union by the original architect, Jacques Ramee. The Frenchman, deeply religious, had long tried, with· out success, to persuade Eliphalet Nott, Union's first president, to grant funds to build an ark modeled after the original to serve as a warning to students against overdoing it on party weekends. In addition, the historic vessel was to have been realistically stocked with animals of every species. Unfortunately, this second part of .his life's dream will not be fulfilled since the Mary will house independents r-ather than fraternity men. Certain differences will have to be worked out with the towns-people over the problem that the projected resting point for the b()W will lie in the present location of the Mohawk branch bank vault while the fourth port propellor will completely block the entrance to Diamante's. Union men wiD probably not mind the inaccess- ability of the latter when they realize the ro- mantic possibilities of a seven course meal fol· lowed by a romantic interlude on deck under the stars with their girls as the ship cruises down Hans Groot's Kill. • this kind of (non) thinking often defend them- selves in the name of \simple patriotism\. · Well, to put it simply: simple patriotism is for· simple patriots. The result of this kind of thinking is de- structive patriotism which not only scorches. ·rice paddies thousands of miles away, but also leaves a much subtler path of destruction in. the scorched moral fiber of the American • people. Constructing Patriotism Constructive patriotism would complete the quote as follows: \My country right or wrong: When she is right, I will abide by her and . when she is wrong, I will try to change her.\ ~he i!llplication is clear. Constructive patrio- tism IS a love for one's country that mani- · fests itself in the individual's obligation to express his personal conscience when he feels • the leaders of his country are wrong. Examine the following quote: \I cannot be silent ... The War was un-. necessarily commenced by the President . . • as to the mode of terminating the War and securing peace, the President is equally wan- dering and indefinite . . . All this shows that the President is in no way satisfied with his· own position . . . Ris mind, taxed beyond his · power, running hither and thither, finding no· position on which he can settle down \ Time's up. Now, who said it? Senator· Full- bright? Ho Chi :Minh? Norman Thomas? Me? All wrong. Abraham Lincoln said that. He was denouncing the Mexican War, and Old Abe • was reputed to have some affection for this co~ntry. Not too many people consider him a trattor, although come to think of it he did have a beard (and' I said tllat). ' Camus said \I should like to be able to love my co~ntry and still love justice.\ Theoretically there Is no problem because America is sup-· Continued on Page 4 SKI INSTRUCTORS Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct high school boys and girls. Prior in· stmction experience not re- quired. Good compensation. Excellent ski £acUities. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP SHAKER VILLA.GE SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road, New Lebanon, N. Y. Lebanon S:prings (N.Y.) 7-1255 262 Saratoga Road MA. YFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru. SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also iHURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 502 Broadway 377-8838 Old Dutch Restaurant REALE!JS Union Pharmacy OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 1617 Union St. Phone 37 4-5770 For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselb lad, Leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 6()0 UNION STREET FREE DELIVERY COLOGNES & AFTERSHAVE LOTIO:VS FR 4-3605 Jade East - English L~ather - 13nd Old Spice - Ca1we - Tbat Man B1·iti.~h Sterling - llau·aiian S11rj Jem~ Natl' 3

4 PuLdl~hl•d Thursda.ys uu.nn:; the scnuu, yeat· by the Stuth•nt Bolly uf Union Collel.(e, Srneneclady. N. Y. ;:>;atlonal Advertising Ilepre?senttl tlve: ~ational Adv c•rt !sins- Sel'\•lce. Inc.. College Publishers Rept·esentative. 420 !\fad!· son A\'e .. !':' Y. e l:;unut:tc.tl Otlllt:, U!J. Lb·ut. l'nttlll Col- le~e .. l'ui...!IL'U.tiun Of ftn•, ~\ lw!!t'l tu.Uy l'nnting ComparJy, Uu:.! lltundwuy. I·;lltt..'l'l'd in 1 he ::h.:ht:.~nl.\l'IHdy l·u~l or- rtl:e as ~f.li..'Ullll Class :\laU !\!a tLer. Sui.Jscrlption 1:,c a culJ~·; $3 a year 1.h·ltvereJ u.n)·when• 111 tlte l'nlt<'d ~ 1•.:-;J()II UO.\RH JOSJ·;t•H ,\., )J.,:-1::--:. JIL JOEL RUBE).;ZAHL. '68 R!CHAJ\D BALAGL:H '6c•. ALAX Zli~Ol.Elt '1;:1 L'LII-'1•' RA!•'.\;o.;l; '6ll ·.;s ;;;c-u:.: EdlltH·IIl·L'Iiit\f Husmess :\lanaser tL\l~Y I'JU.:\'! J:-:T 't;~t Rkhartl ra ttt·r:-~nn. Jr. '·,u Dick Daniel 'i'O ..................... . Stt:>\'l' Fnx '70 ..... LPn Swiun '7u IS'E'il :::;., Kram\r • ~o Peter J)rotnmn '6'1 ~WlllWn l.ttHnan '711. Carl \~nldsanU '~-0 .. :t-;1-~43U . ,; ; I·; 4\S . '!-; 1--; -ll' . :\ j' :!-~ -;;:11 .J !I :1-~ ~ J 1 •. ;-.;P\\'s Editor lri~-:h ~twit•t)' Et1ito1 F't•aturt·s guitul ~purts l·~dltor .J.t:NIOI~ BO.\liD ,\s!'odat.t• ::-..:.,•\\':; gdi:or ..................... ... . .•........ PhntogravhY Editor ....• \~s· t F't>n.L\H't>S l·~ditor ;\Ht-ttll'\c-ttl' ~port:-; l·~·ILor _. . . .\~~·t ~1anaging, Editor __ :-.;;Htinnal _\UVl'J'lis:ng ?l.lanagel . Hub~t·riptum i\'lannger <'u·,~ulation :\·Ianuger NEW~: Brian Holley, Len Kagan, Carl Englebart. llal Ross. Huy I•'•·uilPrman. z..:eal G-onJ.on. Dtll 13reimuu. Hit-hard. Rosenberg, Rich Gilman. F.EA'lTRE:S: Scull Siegler. SPUlt1'S: I-l{'nrr I•'t~in .. Jay Blltzrnan West College Woes Occasionally, students at Union will encounter a col- lege rule which bears a veneer of respectability, but upon closer examination, may find that this superficial polish is composed of a mixture of specious arguments and authori- tarian demands. The West College dress requirements are rules of this nature: the college has called them \tradi- tional\ we call them senseless. \Senseless\ seems to be a good desc:dption of these requirements for several reasons. First, even were these rules to be followed in. letter and spirit, they would not serve to induce an atmosphere of civility and comfort in the West College cafeteria. Civilized behavior springs from something more profound than a suitcoat and tie at dinner- time. And to make such a rule apply at only one time during the day implies that students should behave in a \civilized\ manner at that time alone, and can be them- selves for the rest of the day. Such an idea is preposterous. Secondly, even if West College dining conditions were somewhat less austere, it would be unfair to demand that Union students conform to a uniform dress requirement. A college student need not be subjected to pressures he may have to contend with outside of the college community. Mealtime should not require a change of clothes or behavior at Union. Finally, it seems that there are no reasonable arguments on the side of retaining the rules. If the goal of such regu- lations is to fill West College with well-dressed and civilized men once a day, then the goal will never be attained. People simply -will not change their behavior because of what they're wearing, and even more important, should not be asked to do .so. The requirements will not convince Union ment to dress well no matter how much force is applied. And moreover, the arbitrary nature of such requirements is exemplified by the fact that students are asked to dress and act in a certain manner only once eaclt day: if this is justifiable, why not three times a day? Thus,. if the college must eventually resort to coercion in orde~-,;;to obtain its goals in West College, perhaps it should gO' one step farther and demand uniform dress for all students at all times. Such uniformity, it has been sug- gested, will raise the morale of the student body. Ban ROTC P . ? a.trtots •• • • C()ntinued fr01n Page 3 posedly based on justice. When the choice does present itself (as it does an too often) one cannot do harm to his country by prefer· ring justice. Perhaps there will be a day when patriotism because a love for humanity and when love for one's country will mean just that: love for one's country and not hatred and fear for other countries. Americans find difficulty reacting to criti- cism communists will point to obvious flaws in the capitalist system. For example, they will show how loopholes in tax laws can lead to unfair oppression of a few over many. Now, these same criticisms can be made by someone out of love for the capitalist system, not hate. It can be made by someone who is so devoted to the capitalist system that he wants it to be as perfect and equitable as possible. In other words, it can be said by som.eone who really believes in equal ()ppor- tumty. The difference of opinion between the com- munist and the capitalist critisizers. would be that the communist would claim that these flaws are inherent in the capitalist system and the only way to rid ourselves of these dis- crepancies would be to eliminate the very system that causes them. The capitalist would say that these faults can be remedied within the basic framework of the system. Unfortunately, the reaction to either of the two is usually complete denial of the accusa- tions and discreditation of the accuser. The obvious, ironical fact is that the way to prove the communist wrong is to face the problem directly and defeat it by changing the tax laws and thus showing that the faults were not inherent in the system. But the American attitude is devoid of any such logic. Instead we get an irrational defense of all charges. Irrational defence of S()me- thing one loves is the best way to destroy what once loves. (or at least make sure that it doesn't grow, and that's pretty close to destroying it). All faults get swept under the Congressional rug, and no improvements are made. The prevelenat American attitude often transcends defence of the charges and en· compasses attack of the accusers. Thus, when there's rioting in the slums, it is immediately passed off as being communist inspired, or, and this is the latest trick, attributed to the likes of Stokely Carmichael and Rap Brown. This is equivalent to treating the measles by scratching off the spots. It makes a nicely wrapped package, \No need to worry, it's all them agitator's faults.\ What is not considered is the underlying causes that bring conditions to the point where agitators can inspire fall scale riots. The logi- cal response is, again, to examine the deep seeded causes and eviscerate them. This is the most effective way to dethrone agitators and if it were done the scene would be: \We need jobs, let's fight for jobs.\ \Uey man we got jobs.\ 'Then fight for better schools.\ \Hey man, they're .bussing us now.\ \Burn down those stores.\ \But baby we own those stores.\ \C'mon let's show them we can make some noise.\ \Sorry we gotta get to work.\ This preferance of appearance to reality is part of the sickness that pervades American life. Drive around in a new car, go to the nice places. Let everyone think that you're doin' fine even if behind the sugar coated facade you're struggling to meet every pay- ment and life is a rat raced absurdity of goaless paths. So rernove the agitators and blame everything on lazy people. Ignore the reality of the situation until it expl()des in your incredulous faces as the word \why\ gently trickles down in a puddle of blood. ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING Vli.LAGE AT Ui59 VANVRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb. ___________ _ 4lb, Min.-------- 1.00 20 lb.------------ DRYERS 30 lb. ___________ _ 10Min. ----------- .10 .25 .35 .50 01'1-:S - 8 ''·''· to 10 P.!\1. :\lon. to l'ri. - Sat. R A.l\1. to 5 l'.l\1. 10 A.M. to 6 P.:\'1. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD IIJORGE DRY CLEAN'NG DONE WE CAN BET YOU Will DE AMAZED Thul'$day, October 12, 1967 LETTERS • • • To the Editor: The athletic program at Union leaves little to be desired, yet there is one glaring omission: crew. Crew is an excellent activity for building the body. A regatta, .for participants and spectators alike, is a unique and thrilling experience. Also, entering this new field would put the college in competition with such schools as Amherst, Bl!Own, and Princeton. But above all, rowing is enjoyable. Housing and equipping a crew need not be highly ex· pensive. Colleges and prep schools gladly sell used shells .and ; oars at moderate prices (depending, of course, upon their condition) to schools newly instituting rowing teams. Munici- palities often donate riverside parks and other properties as sites for boathouses. I urge the Student Council to seriously investigate the possibility of bringing rowing to Union. Yours truly, Mike Wilensky ('71) , lVII DTOWN BARBER. DIAMANTE'S i SHOP STARTING OCT. 31 Enjoy Our Fine Home . Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room . ' All Haircuts to be done by ' Opp• The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Appointment from Tues. thru Fri. Appointments not neces- sary Sat. Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. 515 UNION ST. Sundays 5 P.M. ro I A.M. NOTICE FRESHMEN ! ! NONE OF OUR BOTTLES LEAK OLEY'S LIQUOR STORE 751 '12 EC!stern Ave. Corner Jackson Place 377-0350 Deansgate® Last year this newspaper called for- the abolition of ROTC at Union. Although we wholeheartedly endorse the :======- ======-::--::::---=~:::::.:::--::--:::- ::=::=::=::=::=~1 concept of removing ROTC from the college program, we . do not see abolition as the best means for- effecting this. The Union students who benefit from _l! ROTC pro- gram should not be deprived of its service$. ·These services, however, do not justify the inclusio-n of a; military training program in the course of study at Union. ROTC and all of its activities should be removed from the campus and the college curriculum. Th-e College is no place for a military · installation; the ROTC unit could function just as well off- campus, perhaps at a local armory. The points used in defense of abolition are just as viable in this situation. The ideals of military life - blind obedience to authority and the use of force in solving prob- lems - are diametrically opposed to the goals of a liberal educati<Jn: the development of a thoughtful, inquiring na- ture and the use of reason in resolving conflicts. ,. Furthermore, the college's traditional policy of non- involvement in issues outside of education is belied by the fact that ROTC's existence at Union gives more than tacit approval to militarism. Serving Union For 34 Years SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. • 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent food and Informal Atmosphere Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large pa.rties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER ROTC courses, headquarters and activities should be immediately divorced from the College. The relationship which presently exists is an undesirable union between· two incompatible institutions. •.; . . ., For reservations phone FR 4-891 7 1 .;.1:~ r.;.;.,.-------------;·..iolo\i\. -------------' Tweedy Herringbone A superio.t cheviot herringbone suiting made especially fot Deansgate. It makes a g.reat change-of-pace suit fot. town or countty wear. Tailored in Deans gate's own &wless natural shoulde.t construction. In varied color· iqs.l .w50 THURSDAY & FRIDAY TILL NINE .. Thursday, Oc Con tit years. Unusuf tering with ac subjects and could easily gram in. thr prepared for students wou1 a master's de! If this frarr the first thr each student to determine terest, to col quired cours academic are. No During the would complE expected of 1 comprehensiv take graduate of his gradua didates might senior thesis, search on a the fourth ye Touching I of interest, · condemned t ulty ratio of too high\ an· \must aim fo1 It further r• credit course~ matters as •· of departmen program, ph language requ the very near ''The Postu its Environme In order to ment better s· Wt from joine engir and trial is pre trial I ever} share Elee1

1967 y. A and put ex- and as the n Our Gate A.M. A.M. it r· Thursday, October 12, \1967 C.ommittee Urges Changes • • • Continued from Page 1 years. Unusually talented students, en· tering with advanced standing in some subjects and making use of summers, could easily complete their pro- gram in. three years and be well prepared for graduate school.\ Some students would find it possible to earn a master's degree in five years. If this framewor·k is to be followed, the first three years must provide each student with ample opportunity to determine his major field of in- terest, to complete most of the re- quired courses, and e:&plore other academic areas of interest to him. No Senior Thesis During the fou:rth year 1 a student would complete any special projects expected of him and prepare for his comprehensive exams. He might also take graduate courses in anticipation of his graduate degree. Master's can- didates might not be required to do a senior thesis, but begin instead re- search on a master's thesis during the fourth year. Touching briefly on other areas of interest, the committee's report condemned the .present student-fac- ulty ratio of 14:1 as \unquestionably too high\ and said that the college \must aim for a figure closer to 12:1\ It further recommended that non- credit courses be abolished and such matters as 'the depth and breadth of departmental offerings,. the ROTC program, physical education, and language requirements be examined in the very near future.\ \The Posture of the College and its Environment\ was considered next. In order to \establish an environ- ment better suited to the special per- sonality of Union,\ and recognizing that Union is a small, urban resi- dential college with an opportunity to create a \unique kind of atmosphere,\ the committee concluded that \we must construct a college center.\ The committee cited the difficulties \in fostering student-student and student- faculty interaction when the basic physical requirements have not been met.\ Calling the West College Cafe· teria \institutional cramped, cold and surprisingly impersonal\ the report urges 'serious considerations of ways to improve the present eating arrange- ment.\ A great part of the image of a college is taken from student activ- ities outside the classroom. To en- ·courage students in these types of IYassag«; IJ'usht:!d ••• Contjnued from Page 1 roughly forty persons polled were Catholics and three Were strongly against repeal. The other Catholic was undecided. AU the other people polled were against repeal and most stated that the would vote against the entire constitution becasue of its inclusion. Several nuns interviewed favored repeal as might he expected but sur- prisingly they favored seperation of the various proposals. In Sartoga Romine Foster, Presi- dent of the N.Y. Parent-Teacher As- sociation stated her opposition to the new constitution. It is not an improve• ment and \its defects far outweigh gain,\ she said. \Public funds should be used for publically controlled schools only,\ activities, the committee suggested that tile college \create the office of Director of Student Affairs and Activities to help students supple- ment and complement their work outside the classroom.\ Recognizing that fraternities at Union \have to a large degree traditionally been self- serving organizations too aloof from the concerns of the college as a whole,\ the Director \could help to change the focus of the fraternities so that they could become more fully responsive to campus life.\ Fratern- ities would be helped and encouraged to \share responsibility for college functions\ to possibly \organize dis· cussions on important contemporary issues, act as hosts to visiting guests, and generate programs which could contribute to the intellectual tone.\ I 1-lousing Shortage . . Continued from Page 1 ho wished to remain off campus for that year. Previous to that year the college had permitted students to live of!' campus even though they were not working for their rooms. Next year's expected freshman class will number 425. This year's graduating class will be approxi- mately 330 students. At present, there are twenty-two empty beds on campus. It is obvious that if t11e present policy is not changed the col- lege will be physically unable to meet its housing policy demands. Lucas rE)cognized this. He stated, \the housing policy will definitely come under review.\ He cautioned, however, that the review could be de- layed as a result of Dean Pollock's intended departure. Also, the present system of con- vocation credits would be retained. 1'he All-College Council which, ac- cording to the report, \has already served with distinction, should be en- couraged to become more involved in those areas of mutual student· faculty interest for which its charter was created.\ The end of this section of the report contains perhaps the most interesting recommendation in the entire two reports. 'Finally the committee sug- gests that Union would be well served by becoming a coeducational institu- tion . . • The college environment would be a healthier and more nat- ural one.\ Recognizing that the \de- cision is a major one, and that the irnplic.ations are far from simple,\ the committee concluded that \it seems clear that the overall benefits to students would far outweigh the diffi- c'!llties:\ There was no explanations g1ven m the report for the reasoning behind these statements. In any event the committee reached this conclu: sion was a student opinion poll in its ha!Jds indicating student opposition to gomg co-ed at better than 2-1. Motivation . The fac.ulty is the subject of the fmal section of the report. Certain changes must be made \to maintain motivation and enthusiasm \ the re- port said. ' Faculty coming to Union bring \not only their professional skills and in- volve~ent, but also their interest and commxttment to the full educational process.\ All too often, these contri- butions haven't been adequately ll_leas~red and appreciated. Participa- tion Is measured chiefly in regard to courses ~oad! ignoring other signif. 1cant contributions of faculty to the college such as re~earch, design of new co-qr~es, comllilttee assignments, and adv1smg of students. The college needs to \explore new ways to meas- ure the total participation of the fac- ulty.\ Also deemed necessary are faculty evaluation procedures presupposing \Individual conferences between the department chairman and each mem· ber of his department.\ In .appointing new faculty, consideration \ought to be given to the potential which a new faculty member may represent for CED as well as his department.\ Again in this section, as well as the one on undergraduate education, \the committee urges the college to move as rapidly as possible to a stu- dent-faculty ratio \which will more effectively support our commitment to individual instruction.\ Estimating student enrollment to be 1650 in 1972< a student-faculty ratio of 12:1 woula require the hiring of 33 new faculty members. This concludes the study of the Special Summer Committee's report on Undergraduate Education. Next week this series will explore the second of these two reports which deals with the future of graduate programs at Union. ERRATUM Mr. Bruce Clements of the Union College English Department and re- cent author of a book for children en- titled To Against the Tide, was err- oneously referred to as Richard A. Clemens in a Concordiensis news ar- ticle last wek. Concordiensis regrets the error. ONE DAY ONLY Tuesday, October 17, 1967 LOlDOJ GR.~FJC.t .tRTS Presents an exhibition and sale of original lithographs etchings, wood cuts Maillol Rouault Carzou Chagall Corinth Picasso Toulouse-Lautrec Dufy Renoir Van Dongen and many others moderately priced Union College- Nott Memorial 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. ATTENTION UNION SOPHMORES Pick up your free Union charm at 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Which Union College man is a decision-maker at General Electric? Boulevard Bowl 3 2 AMF Bowling Lanes S. Wellford Corbin graduated from Union College in 1930, and joined General. Electric as a student engineer. \Today as Vice President and General Manager of the Indus- trial Sales Division, he heads what is probably the world's largest indus- trial sales operati.on. Decision-maker? You bet! But every Union College grad gets his share of responsibility at General Electric. (They all are) Take Chris Hoyt, '65, a product planner with the Large Generator and Motor Department. He prepares tech- nical literature to back-up product sales, and provides business fore- casts for manufacturihg services. And analytical physicist Herbert Holder, '65, solves design problems on nuclear reactor cores at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory. Responsibility and dec is ion- GENERAL ELECTRIC An Equal Opportunity Employer making come early at General Elec- tric. We're growing so fast and in so many challenging areas that there's no waiting for the big oppor- tunities. How about you? Do you have what it takes to make important de- cisions for General Electric? If you think you do, talk to the General Electric recruiter when he's on campus. 910-:H Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M. SNACK BAR ON PREMISES RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. 5

WEST COLLEGE RULES Page4 Concordy Sports MY COUNTRY RIGHT OR WRONG? Page 3 Gridders Fall Short By One Booters Succum,b; Ting Boots One As Mistakes Mar Fine Effort The Garnet booters held a powerful Trinity squad in check for three periods Tuesday before the :Bantams scorecl twice in the fourth period for a rain-soaked 3·1 win, Coach Brown's squad is now Oc2 while Trinity, 6·0 victor over MIT in its opener, is 2-0. By LEN SIMON The young Union football team had its first taste of defeat at the hands of a powerful King's Point team. Saturday, 14-13, 8/ · a last minute try at a two-point co.nversion failed. Coach Geerge Flood's charges now stand at 1-1, and host Ro- chester Saturday. Th(' Mariners, who now stand at 1·2, and play a schedule whtch is over our heads, loomed as our toughest opponent before the game. However, the Garnet played them to a standstill, and very probably would have come home with a victory were it not for two key mistakes. One came early in the first period as the Garnet attempted to punt, and the other took the form of a b11sted play as King's Point re- plllsed the final conversion try. After st0pping the Mariners dead on their first series, Union took over at their own 18 via a short punt and a clipping penalty. Failing to move, Ron McAvoy dropped back to punt, but the snap from center Russ Ciccotti eluded him and he was tackled as he picked up the ball at his own four. Bob La- vinia quickly scored and the placement brought the tally to 7,0 almost before the numerous Union alumni had found their seats. Costly Mistake Quickly the Garnet was in a hole. Playing a team against which they could afford no mis- takes, they had made a costly one in the first three minutes. However they bounced back quickly, driving 72 yards the next time they had the ball. Quarterback Scott Kumpf, un- able te find a receiver, ran for a first down at midfield. Half· back Joe James then ran inside twice for another twelve yards. A pass from Kumpf to tight end Tom Godfrey brought t11e ball inside the 30. After two short gains, James broke over tackle, hulled through the sec· ondary, and raced 23 yards to score. Art Jacobs added the ex· tra point to knot the count at 7-7. King's Point then had a sim- iliar drive stopped just two yards short ·()f paydirt. After driving from their own 32 to the Union 2, they ran into a determined Garnet forward wall which repulsed two efforts from close up. Kumpf then engine· ered an0ther drive, but stalled on the King:s Point 35 as a fourth down pass went incom· plete. Quickly the visitors had possession .again as Fran Pis- citelli intercepted a Mariner pass. Union -was forced to punt, but McAvo~1hen picked another aerial otf fo give the Garnet possession just before intermis- sion. After moving _into King's Point territory, seyeral passes from Kumpf failed and the first half ended in a deadlock. The third period saw b0th de· fenses shine, as neither team could mount a serious threat during the entire quarter. Early in the fourth quarter, King's Point mustered its only success- ful sustained drive, as it moved mainly on the ground to the Garnet 7-yard line, where La- vinia again toted in the pig- . skin. Facing the maximum chal· Editors Corner: \~\'%\'mc~\'''\%*f.lme; ,_.,, Player of the Week :::~:.::;~~~:::.:~,._ 3 ;~:· ~:·.:::::~ -<=~==-~~:;;:,:::;~~:;:i~:~~;~:::Jt~;~;::;:;;~:~K,.::-::::::~~;::y·.x:~':;{:::~:~::~t~i:f~;t.:#=01$j~:£;t*::~ By Gary Prevost Sophomore John Burton en· tered the Garnet football lineup one week late due to pre-season injury but before his first var· sity effort was comp~ete the Mariners of King's Pomt must have wished he had waited an- other week. The 6·1, 205 pound defensive right end was. a key figure in the Garnet's fme de· fensive effort Saturday. Al~ng with Sam Dill, Burton contmu· ally harassed Mariner quarter- back Caruso with the result that the usually fine passer com· pleted only 6 for 15 for 83 vards. • Burton attended Amherst Central School in suburban Buf· falo where he co-captained foot· ball with Garnet linebacker Skip Lynch, and also served as co-captain in track. Last year Burton played defensive end on John Burton the 2·2 frosh team. -====~==~==~====~~~ Announcement Mama Bianchi's fine Italian & American Food Open Sunday Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1 .00 l1 35 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room Admittance will be denied ( 'u,,·n.\1~'1.\J ~to all under18 ye:ara ohlgt. PTC OXFORD .............................. 5th AVE. AT 112th 235-1803 North Troy, N. Y. UNION SOc Discount with this coLJpon to students The -Dutch Classic Bowling League will h.old its annual banquet Sunday night at 7 :00 at Bernice's Mid-Hill Tavern. Trophies wo11 during the past season will he awarded. THE ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service Is a Pleasure 509 Union Street Neor Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. FERRO PHARMACY 5.7 S Nett Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE lenge, Union had three oppor· tunities to drive for the final score. ifames fumbled turning the corner after a fine gain to b.unt the first drive. Atter the home team failed to control the ball, the Garnet moved again but a fourth down pass failed. Mariners Stall When the .Iv1ariners stalled again, Kumpf had his last chance to avert a 14·7 defeat. He hit Craig Carlson for ten yards, then Rich Swan for nine yards, and finaay h1t Carlson with a Key pass which, along with a pen- alty moved the Garnet to the King's Point 34. Finally, with less tnan a mmute to p1ay, Kumpf hit Swan with a perfed 29-yard bomb, as the fleet end turned on the speed through a secondary prepared to give away anything but the long bomb. Coach :Flood's decision to go for the win rather than kick the point for a probable tie could not be argued with! A tie satis- fies no one, as Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghan can at· test to. So the hred up uarnet offense lined up for a possible winnmg .thrust at the tough King's Point line. However, the op-portunity to actually try for the score never came up, as a mixup in assignment allowed a :Mariner defender to blow through untouched and nail Kumpf for a b1g loss betore he could try anything. Defense Proven Despite the loss, the trip to Long Island was not fruitless for the footballers. First, the defense proved its worth, led by McAvoy, Tom Oberst, Andy Anderson, Dave Gray, John Bur- ton, and Skip Lynch. McAvoy participated in 24 tackles and had one interception. Oberst, Anderson, and Burton (coming off an injury) all played well on the defensive line, Gray was excellent on passes and kick returns, and Lynch nearly tore apart ball earners on several occasions. Rochester comes into Satur- day's game with a 1-2 record, dropping a two-point decision to Denison and a one-pointer to Williams, while romping over Hamilton. They rely almost ex- clusively on the passing of Richard Young, who threw 48 times last week against Wil- liams. Union will go into the game in nearly top shape. The only doubtful starters are full- back Kevin Monahan and line- backer Vito Potenza. Monahan sat out the King's Point game with a strained 1eg muscle and Potenza strained a ligament during that contest. Captain Sam Dill was not at full strength through Saturday's contest, as he was injured early but played most of the game. He seems to have recovered completely. UNION KI-NG'S POINT STATISTICS 16 183 152 :=irst downs Rushing )'Ordoge · Passing yardage Passes ' Interceptions Fumbles lost Punts Penaltiea 16·35 2 1 2·35 82 15 215 83 6-15 2 2 5-35 79 Alan Gibby of Trinity opened the .scoring midway through the first period by the Garnet gained a deadlock late in the period wh.en Ting Pau Oei scored with. an assist from Mike ::i0lomon. The middle two periods were scoreless though the Bantams missed a penalty kick in the third period. The Garnet had three good scoring opportunities. m the same period but c0uld not cash in. Sam Elkin scored .the winning goal for the Bantams with seven minutes gone in the linal period while Mike Center with an assist from Elkin added a :final .goal with six minutes left. Defense Outstanding The Garnet defense played a fme game as they were under constant pressure from the Trinity front line which controlled the hall most of the game. Fullbacks Pete Palen, Larry McFarlane, and Pat Nelugan were the key figures in the Garnet defense along with Goalie Ben Volmski who made 17 saves. The Garnet attack unit, with Dave Pittinos subbing fot Tijan Sallah who was ill, played well considering the short time during which it controlled the bal'l. The Garnet man- aged a total of 11 shots at the opposition goal. Travel North The hooters travel to the north country this weekend meeting St. Lawrence on Friday and Clarkson on Saturday. A strong performance this weekend should produce victories as neither opponent is known for its soccer prowess. The hooters return home next week facing Hamilton on Tuesday and Middlebury on Thursday. Both games will be played at 2:30 on Daley Field, The Panthers usually produce fine soccer teams and sho11ld .provide the Garnet with it toughest com- petition of the week. Football Intras Cut by Rain; Two Frats Tops After two games of the cur- r-ent season, there are four clubs with perfect records. Delta Phi is 2-0, and is in first place in the North league. In the South· ern eague, Delta Chi, as a reswt of their 36-7 win over Psi U, moved into first place. The Betas knocked off Kappa Alpha on October 4, by a 26-8 count, to go into a first place tie with Delta Upsilon in the Eastern League Active Wednesday Also active last Wednesday were D.U. and Theta Delta Chi. This game produced a shutout, 18·0, for D,U. In the remaining game played on October 4, Chi Psi moved past Phi Delta, 36-13. All games scheduled for October 10 were rained out. The big game here was the lndenen!i ent- Delta Phi game which involved the first and second place teams of the division. The other games would have matched Phi Sigma Kappa against Sigma Phi, and Fox with Psi U. Phi Ep meets Fiji On Wednesday Phi Ep will rr:eet Phi Gamma Delta, Chi Psi will face Psi U, and Alpha Delta will be pitted against Phi Delta Theta. In one other contest, Sigma Chi will battle Theta Delta. Thursday's action is re- strticted to a game between Fox and Delta Chi. Rounding out the week's ac- tivity will be two Friday games, D.U. versus Phi Sigma Delta and Delta Phi agasaint Phi Ep. Scoreboard & Schedule This Week's Games: FOOTBALL Friday: Union (F) at Trin- ity. Saturday: Rochester ( 1-2) at Union (1·1). Alexander Fie:d 1:30. 62nd meeting. Last year: Rochester 32, Union 0. SOCCER Friday: Union at St. Law- rence. Saturday: Union at Clark- son. New Paltz at Union (F). Daley Field 12:00. Tuesday: Hamilton at Union, Daley Field 2:30. Wednesday: Williston at Union (F), Daley Field 2:30. Thursday: Middlebury at Union, Daley Field 2:30. CROSS COUNTRY Tuesday: Vermont at Union Frosh & Varsity 2:30. Wednesday: Williston at Union (F) 2:30. Last Week's Results: FOOTBALL King's Point 14, Union 13. SOCCER Trinity 3, Union 1. Middlebury 5, Union 0 CROSS COUNTRY Clarkson 18, Union 43 ICAC FOOTBALL St. Lawrence 14, Hobart 14. OTHER FOOTBALL Williams 13, Rochester 12. Hamilton 22, RPI 0. C. W. Post 20, Alfred 15. DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 11 8 - 1 20 JAY STREET MOFFETT'S LIQUOR STORE UNION vs. ROCHESTER WIN, LOOSE, OR TIE YOU~LL COME OUT AHEAD At MOFFETT'S Your Closest Friend - Next to Mohawk Bank ·;:1 The l ___ _ Harriers Lose, Fribusb Fourth By HENRY FEIN The Garnet varsity Cross ., Country Team opened its 1967 season Wednesday afternoon at Potsdam and lost to the Clark· s0n squad 18-43, The freshman . ~ pener with the Lenox Academy, t scheduled for last Tuesd~Y. Oct0ber 10, was canceled at the last minute. The frosh will be· gin their season Tuesday when , . tney meet the junior harriers from the University of Vermont here at 2:30. In the varsity meet, top bon· ors were taken by Clarkson bar· tier Jeff Hurdle, who completed ihe four mile course in 21 min· utes and 37 seconds. Second and third places also fell to Clark\ son runners. Garnet harrier Myron Fribush led the Union squad with a 23:07 clocking, good for tourth p1ace. Cart ·.rnum \ came in second for the Garnet, s1xth overall, with a fine 26:07 t1me. Rounding out the scoring flve for Union were Jeff Lan· smg, who finished tenth, Pete Encson, eleventh, and Ron Ruhl, twelfth. Also competing for the Garnet were Charles Evans, and Dave Uguccioni. Frosh Promisinfl . While this season looks like a tough re·building. one for the varsity, the frosh continue to look like one of the best squads t() represent Union in many years. Coach Ketz feels that they \are really coming along.\ As pre,competition practices draw to a close. With the Lenox meet called, the frosh will begin the season with one of their tough- est meets of the year when they run against the perennially tough Vermont frosh Tuesday. Their meet will start on the Alexander Field track at 2:30, . a half hour before the varsity likewise meets Vermont. Frosh Soccer The freshman soccer team dropped a 5-0 decision to Mid- dlebury on a muddy field to open their season yesterday. The Panther frosh scored twice in the first and third periods, and added the final tally during the fourth stanza. . SUPPORT YOUR TEAM BLAZER OF GLORY That most excellent leisure jacket, the blazer, abounds in li. choice of shapes and fabrics. We show a slender sam• piing-the Proprietor has a goodly num- ber in addition to s11ggest. 39.95 326 STATE ST. PH. 377-3061 Tu::s. & Tf:urs. 'til 9 JAMES JOYCE'S \ULYSSES\ One block from Brownell Gate ' ',,1,,. CLOSED SATURDAY, 10/14- RELIGiOUS HOLIDAY Vol. 97 - OCTOBER Union St1 . By A Bronx Constitutioi day that co of the Bl~ scured the the revised York State' Speaking nectady, F. President c there is \-v the state.\ in the ghe lems were and conseq Fot In all mittee re: by this inter-coil Jim Rull tax commi1 Dutch Clas: team, rugl: are all im committee: should be ment of at! sees the eJ an unfair 1 ticularly w sented by 1 ate tournE equipment, food and l< terest and and should be supplied In the ment has groups in ~ to the tax< athletic de they could groups. Tll clear that t it is not i to continu some of w: close to f added that of the tax judgement! groups. E would like fore the A sideration. Gary Pr< the activi Dutch Cla that those in reality \ own equipt gested tha1 mittee be f of these gr A committ shoUld dra' committee': departmen1

Cross., its 1967 at Clark· at the will be· when, harriers top hon· har- 21 min· and Clark' harrier Union clocking, 'l·num Garnet, 26:07 scoring Lan· Pete Ron Charles like a for the to squads in many that they As ces draw·•' meet begin the tough- they Tuesday. on the at 2:30, . varsity team· to Mid- field to The twice in and the r E ST. 'til 9 Demon\\ stration Impressions Page2 SKIDMORE CALENDAR PageS Founded at Union College 187? Vol. 97 - No. 5 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, OCTOBER •19, 1967 PRICE lS CENTS OCTOBER 16:fH MOVEMEI'-IT: Union Students protest the war ·in front of the induction center in Albany. Badillo Prophesies· ''Bloody Massacre'' · By JOSEPH MANN A Bronx .delegate to the New York Constitutional Convention said ''rues- day that concern over possible repeal of the Blaine Amendment has ()b· scured the most important issue in the revised constitution: aid f()r l'l'ew York State's massive urban problems. Speaking at Union College in Scll.e- nectady, Herman Badillo, Bovough President of the Bronx, warned tlut there is \very little time to losE in the state.\ He said that the people in the ghettos feel that their- pr()b- lems were \left outside of societ:y\ and consequently \are willing t<> act outside of society\ in order to resolve them. Urban residents will be involved in ''a bloody massacre\ unless steps are taken to ameliorate conditions in the ghettos. Badillo, Chairman of the Health, Housing and Social Services Commit- tee at the convention, outlined the principles behind the \community and economic development\ article which his committee succeeded in including in the new constitution. First, he said, the ghetto problem must be approach- ed from a \total community\ view- providing not only Jow-income hous- ing, but rather, low, medium and high income housing, park and recreation Continued on Page 2 Tax Co~nn~ittee Grants Four Acti'Vities ZIP By BAR.'l H:A.BRINGTON, JR. In an unprecedented decjsion this week, the Student Tax Com- mittee refused funds to four student groups. The activities affected by this decision are intranural groups whose actions extend into inter-collegiate com:IJetitbn. Jim Rubenstein, Chairman ()f t:be tax committee, pointed out that t:be Dutch Classic Bowling League, thE ski Students Demonstrate Against Draft Law a·~nd Vie·t N:am War Students from Union, Albany State, and local high schools as well as housewives, hippies and professors gathered before the military recruit- ment office in Albany Monday to pro• test the draft and the war. The marchers, numbering between 60 and 70, paraded in front of the Old Post Office Building carrying psychedelic placards urging on 'lookeFs to resist the draft and stop the war. Wide Scope (Nationally demonstrations took place in more than 30 cities across th~ nation as the \Stop-the-Draft- Week\ started. In Oakland the police arrested folk singer Joan Baez and 11:9 other demonstrators as protestors at- tempted to dissuade draftees from re- porting for induction. One hundred and eighty one men mailed their draft cards to the Attorney General after the U.S. Marshall in New York re- fused to accept the cards. More .than 300 persons were reported to have turned, in their draft cards in Boston.) The quiet, placard carrying demon- strators in Albany wer.e met by a small crowd of hecklers who called the demonstrators \Commie Rats\ and \finks hiding behind books.\ Police kept the demonstrators moving WILSON GIVES ORGAN RECITAL Hugh Allen Wilson, Associate Pro- fessor of Music at Union College and Organist at Memorial Chapel, will pre- sent his first organ recital of the season Friday evening October 20, at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. This concert will be the first of six to be given during the 1967-68 academic year and the first of 18 to be given over the ne:xt three years. The concerts are planned S() that a survey of represehtative masterworks for the organ, from various reper- tories, wil be presented. Year's Program The ·programs for this year include the ··complete works for organ ()f Brahms, Hindemith, and the works for solo organ by Mozart. The \Mass for the Convenants\ will be per- formed in its entirety this yeart with the \Mass for the usage of Panshes\ tl> follow in the third year. Continued on Page 3 and no major incidents occurred, .At noon the po'!ice called for the heck- ler:,s to disperse, stating that they ~er.e ·unruly and might get out of hand. Hippies and Students The demonstrators ranged from well dressed students to hippies with long hair and beards, from long haired students to an old lady who struggled -with her sign in the wind. Robert Thurber, the spokesman for t~e gr.oup, attempted to gain access to the building, which also houses the sta1e draft center, to present a peti- ti()ll bearing 53 signatures t() the bead of the state draft board, He was barred by federal and state police but was admitted after he insisted lie be allowed into the building. He carried the petition endorsing \the action of those who are h.allding in their draft cards. By re£using to co- operate with the Selective Service system, these people are actively challenging the government~s right to draft any American man for:' its crim- inal war against the people of Viet· nam.\ Hecklers called after the demon- strators as they marched by \Y<>u need a bath,\ \get a hair«:!ut,\ and other witicisms. The demonstrator complained t() a reporter, \we wear long hair and th,ey hate us, we ta:lk of •(Jeace and they say kill.\ Impressions of one of the marcher.s are described by Alan Ziegler on page 2. Co~n1nittee Reco1nntends Day Graduate Students; Joint Area Progra~ns; By RICHARD PATTERSON, .m. yunion should pursue both ()bjectives 'TILe transfer of pre.sent evening '\ a way best suited to Union's graduate courses to daytme hours, en- -· strengths.\ couragemerit of qualified undergrad- The rapidly changing environments, uates to enroll in these courses, and national and local, in whicil the col- the development of joint gt\aduate lege exists demand that she be re- programs with other institutions in sponsive and adaptive to change. New the area are three of the recommen- technological, social and educational dati()ns put forth by the Special Sum- patterns challenge \those institutions mer Committee on the Future of Vlith imagination\ to meet the new Graduate Studies in its recent report needs of society today. to tb.e faculty and trustees. Upward Shift Committeemen In the realm of higher education 'Jhe commitee, consisting of Profs. itself, the report cites inc1eased en- Retc:bllm, .Board, Shick, and Ullmann. rollment in institutions of 4igher edu- spent the· month of August wrest- cation, and an \upward shill in edu- ling with the \task of defining the cational expectations. More and more best means of effective survival in students are beading for some form t~e new educational e.nvironment fol\ of post-baccal?ureat~ eda~a~ion, an!l liberal arts colleges m genet\al and they are makmg th1s dec1s1on mucn for Union College in particular!' earlier than formerly.\ Higher edtt()a· :President Harold C. Martin, meet- ing regularly with the committee, said he believed that two paths were op~n to Union in the fature. The college can either reshape her cur- riculum and emphasis such that she be.collles distinctive in the field of undergraduate education, or she can build upon and expand her present strengths by adding appropriate grad- ua1e programs .. 'Til.e committee concluded that ~~~d''t~ proposals of the Faculty SUJomer. Com- mittee, modified to som~ eKtent, c~m­ <:ernirlg the Comprehensive :E?ucati~n }lrogram. These recommendatwns w1ll be submitted to a full faculty meeting for consideration October 1!1. · team, rugby team and sailing team are all important activities, but tlte committee feels unanimously tllat tiLey should be supported by the de}Jaxt- ment of athletics. The Tax Co1111tl.ittee sees the expenses of these groups as an tml;air tJse of student :money, par- ticularly where the college is repre- sented by these teams in intercollMi- Dutchmen Sting Yellowjackets, 13-6 Among the changes is the prop()sal that all students (except jn special <:ases) be required to take ei,:ght Comp. Ed. courses and four other courses ()utside of the student's 111ajor de- }lartment. The Committee r(l,com.mend- ed that students have tb.e option to take Comp. Ed. 10 and U as one course under the same instr11ctor. In the Sophomore and Junior years the <:ommittee suggested that students be l'equired to take three C:omp. Ed. courses outside of their C.-enter and that these not include dulll courses. Jt recommended that a pilot project ·be established to test tlle: Summer <:ommittee's idea of havi11g Seniors :participate in a work-study plan. The matter wUl be further C()nsidered by the Curriculum Committee and, the :full faculty will consider all these matters at its Thursday IlLeeting. ~h®at'~m:a~ . ate tourneys. Money required for equipment, travel expenses, entry fees, food and lodging goes beyond th-e in- terest and scope of student activities and should, according to Rubenstien, be supplied by the college. Refused Support In the past, the athletic de}Jaxt- ment has refused to suppe>rt these groups in any way and bas sent them to the tax committee for supp()rt. T:be athletic qepartment has claimed that they could supply no funds for tlle groups. The tax committee 111ade it clear that their organization feels that it is not in the interest of students to continue funding these grouJ.)s, some of whose memberships n1,1rnller close to fifty sb,1dents .. Rubenstein added that it was not in the province of the tax committee to make value judgements as to the worth of these groups. Eventually, the co111rn.ittee would like this problem bre>ught be- fore the All-College Council for con- sideration. Gary Prevost, treasurer of one of the activities denied funds, the Dutch Classic League, pointed out that those organizations which '\Vere in reality \clubs\ should p1·ovide their own eq11ipment. Furthermore, lie sug- gested that a special club level com- mittee be formed to determine w·hieh. of these groups should receive funds. A committee of this nature, he said, should draw funds from both the tax: committee's ·budget and the atb.letle department's monies. Photo by Di!k Danlel:o Split end Rich Swan pulls down a flat pass from quarterback Scott Kumpf to .pick liP vf.lluable yardage against. Roches- ter Saturday. Swan scored twice as Union won 13-6. Story on .page 8. tion is coming to mean more than just a baccalaureate degree, and grad- uate school is increasingly viewed as a natural extension of undergradaate study, the report asserted. Faculty members, in turn, have become more specialized, and their loyalties to their professional discip- lines are often as great as those to their institutions. Many of \the best :young men with Ph.D.'s\ tlle com- mittee stated, will not teach at an lllstitution that offers onlr \the sat- isfactions of undergraduate teaching, :however appealing these 10a;v be.\ As was stressed in both thlS report and that of the July coinwittee, the college must realize that money to l'Un the college, from any of the tr.a- <litional sources, goes to the institu- tions engaged in graduate eclucatie>n. Local Environment Cornpetitive Analyzing the local e11;vironment of the college, the report ]l()ints o11t that the CapitaJ District inclUdes a number of educational institutions \Vith which Union \m11st come to terms\. The State University at Al- hany offers growing competition to Union yearly. RPI could !}le \classed as a University with a teclmical em- Continued ()D Page 2

2 Thursday, October 19, 1967 IMPRESSIONS: . . / Never Argue With Committee Reports L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWElRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUil Pl!llS • KEYS MEDIUS • TROPHIES 'Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syract!se, N\.Y. 13210 \\ :, .. CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 Union St. FR 7-1283 ·~ ,; ,.~ / :~ - :;:frgmes and Lenses Replaced Prescriptions firred R·ITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue FeatiJring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS. STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Se.rving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. • • • Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK A Touch of Hollond in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 1617 Union St. Phone 374-5770 ,, For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity fe~turing Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, ' Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate RELAX! ~LAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 Jay Street Special Price For College ~tudents Ladies Fre:e .. Accom ponied by Gentleman DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room , .. \'\ • Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREET Thursday, :ca~ For Robert G formed Un terday isst: operate a basis in Nc eral meetin to create 4 This group with Skidr Club, the Finger. ltl promote c leges' extr< As a firs a regular l more. The finances to ready to b cate. AccOJ lem is mot · $4,500 per present arE dent activi Giovannetti among the is hoped tl persuade t operation. Plans cal One would Skidmore l come from mately the to their rc giving amp ties. There of fifty cet If the b vember, Gi for the ren heads of ~ him as so1 .nessage ir '.nterest an ;ribute to :orne any ·aising me >e made, G essors in t md mutual >ilities for A delica1 , !'Vich called m the Uni and tomatc

~.J (1 9, 1967 Thursday, October 19,.. 1967 , Campus Girls be char- chance- on more .ller own of .her aid. bhe .be must • <llfferent Inti· graduate eport at- onsldera- Zero In On Student Body By CARL DIETZ • Unescorted women on Union's Campus? Why yes, hut not all al'e necessarily interested in the rest of the student body. Presently about 300 women are .gathered here tlci<·IUn•~er any one of the many programs established s report, and directed by the Office of tipecial Programs. More ·than 150 of these women, average age ., 25, are eurol'led along with other male 1 custinc• am~·tte:~re:e candidates in evening classes. However, at the ·when courses needed for graduation are not .given under- should, ouermg programs mtegral pnmaty be under- .pro- the re- \snould programs acauemic ate \rela- .pro- to pro- ••• best to programs a thesis de- num students, pro- beral fel- gradu- tne corn- should the day- programs greater en- ndergrad- ~ to course.\ and un- supposed- .environ- •' that be re- po!icy in and s pertain- under- values and contra- and \pri- rgraduate primarily to chal- more The con- gradu- sal· ends \aims through- be best by \a the ommunity aero~~ grad- udies.\ syn- the 't. ~·· -~ durmg regular evening hours, speCial permission is granteu to attend day classes~ So far, only 10 women this term have been forced to d() this. ln extreme cases, one or possibly two ladies have to register with full day time sch.edules. At present, omy one yollng lady is in such a awk- . ward position. Since all evening students pay flrll .tuition, but not actiVlties fees, they do not enjoy any of the of day stuoents. However, as a pre- the women are issued special parking decaHs which designate areas with th.e shortest and best lit paths 1eadmg to their classes. In addition, 150' high school students, half of which are young teenage g1r1s, are bussed every Monday from schools m the Schenectady area to theJI classes at Union. Arriving at 4:::10 P.M., spend one hour in one pf four co11rs~s. offer- in either the Hllffiamtles or the Sctences. Sponsored by the Board of Cooperative Educa- twn Services, the intent is to acquaint college bound students with the rigors and responsibil· iUes of college studies. Whatever else they learn in their hour on campus is soley a· bonus to experience. Participating in the program are Professors Freund, .Board, Swartz and Haag, and the science faculty. The courses range from Greek mythology in Comparative Literature, to molecular struc- ture in the Frontiers of Science. The program will last until February 26, giv- ing the students twelve lVJ.onday aiternoons to become fully acquainted with Union. By policy, the Special Programs Office is open to all students male or female. It represents the sole means by which women can enter Union College. Are there other ways? Giovannetti Calls For Bus Support Robert Giovannetti, co-ordinator of the recently formed Union-Skidmore (US) organization, yes- terday issued a call for support and funds .to operate a bus between the colleges on a tnal basis in November. Union-Skidmore has had sev- eral meetings in the past few weeks in its attempt to create closer ties between the t\vo colleges. This group originated after last year's merging with Skidmore of the International Relations Club the Photography Club and the Moving Fing~r. Its main goal thus far has been to promote closer contact between the two col- leges' extracurricular activities. Reciprocity As a first step, the group is trying to establish a regular bus service between Union and Skid- more. The Skidmore girls have the necessary finances to rent a bus from the college, and are ready to begin opera~ion if U.nion will . recipro- cate. According to Gwvannettl, the mam prob- lem is money. Bus operation would cost around $4,500 per year, The main sources ~f funds at present are contributions from the d1fferen~ stu- dent activities and the Student Tax Committee. Giovannetti raised the possibility of a campaign among the alumni for contributions. However it is hoped that student interest would eventually persuade the college to take over the cost of operation. Plans call for buses to run five nights a week. One would leave Union at 6:30 p.m. and reach Skidmore around 7:15 p.m. while another would come from Skidmore and reach Union at approxi- mately the same time. These buses would return to their respective colleges around 11:00 p.m .• giving ample time for meetings and other activi- ties. There would be at least a temporary fee of fifty cents for riders. Dragging Plans If the bus is not put into operation in No- vember, Giovannetti fears plans could drag along for the remainder of the year. He hopes that the heads of all the student activities will contact him as soon as possible at 393-84:55 or put a .nessage in the I.R.C. mailbox indicatin~ their '.nterest and the amount of money they will con- sibute to support the buses. He will also wel- :ome ·any other suggestions as to the means of ·aising money. If these beginning moves can >e made, Giovannetti sees the interchange of pro- essors in the strong departments of such college md mutual use of the colleges' libraries as possi- >ilities for the future. A delicatessan in Saratoga Sprin~s lists a sand- ..vich called the \Union Special\ The ingredients 'in the Union Special are: turkey, ham, lettuce and tomato. Photo by Did< Caniols NEW TESTING FACILITY: The new structural testing lab under construction behind the Biology Building. Anchorages on the floor and ceiling will be copable of supporting 50,000 pound stress and 20,000 pounds .tension. Campus Notices There will be a Union-Albany State mixer at Albany State Lecture Room 1 Friday, October 20. Admission is 50@ and will be collected at the door. Casual dress is suggested. Buses will leave the Chapel at 7:45. There will be a cocktail party for independents and freshmen and their dates to be held at Fox Hall on October 28 from 4:30 to 6:30 P.M. Jackets and ties are required. Tickets ($3 per couple) are on sale. For further information contact Howard Blank in Hi4 Davidson. Last spring on March 29 the Phoenix, with a crew of eight and a cargo of $10,000 worth of medical supplies, landed at Haiphong. During the next few days the crew delivered the supplies to the Red Cross Society of North Vietnam for the treatment of civilian casualties in Vietnamese village dispensaries. This undertaking is dealt with in a documentary film, made by the Cana- dian Broadcasting Company entitled The Voyage of the Phoenix which will be shown on Tuesday, October 24: at 8:00 P.M. in S.S. 016. i Union College, in conjunction with the Sche- nectady Museum, will present the Berlin Phil· harmonic Octet on October 25, 8.30 p.m. at Mem- orial Chapel. The program will include a Clarinet Quintet by Brahms and an octet by Schubert. Tickets will be, available at the door or can be purchased b;r writing the Schenectady Museum, 37 Steuben St. 1 '-----''----- The Sports Ca:!i Club of the Rochester Institute of Technology is proud to announce the running of the first annual automobile rallye challenge · cup for Western New York State colleges. Any three car team from any college in Western or central New York state is welcome; prizes and trophies are to be awarded to the finishers in each of three classes: advanced, basic, and novice. For further information on pre-registration, calli or write, Elizabetl1 K. Holmes, 20 Tracy St., Rochester, N. Y. 14607 (716) 442-9225 • A class intitled \Modern Dance and Creative Movement\ will be held again this year for in- terested Union students. Conducted by Ruth Draper, the c:lasses will meet on Tuesdays at 4:30 P.M. Due to a lack of space in the gym, instruc- tion will now be given in Old Chapel. These classes will continue at least until the end of the present term. 3 Busy Season For Mountebanks Will Feature One-Act Plays The Mountebanks and the Nott Memorial The-a- tre are em barking on one of their most active seasons in recent years with the scheduling of three one-act plays, Deathwatch, Celebration, and The Dumbwaiter on November 2, 3, 4. Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot will be performed November gk· 10, 11. Another series of one-act plays will ta e place November 16, 17, 18. Jeff DelVlunn, Director of Waiting for God&t, was last seen as the King in Escurial. He has appeared many times in Mountebanks pr()· ductions, including roles in Zoo Story, The Alch.l- mist, and Mistress of the Inn. dello's The Emperor; he was also make·UP man for the Mountebank's 1966 season. He too, is teaching at Notre Dame Higb. School. Two newscomers to the Nott Theater stage are Mark Palmer, who plays Lucky, and Peter Feld- stein, who plays the Boy. ------- --·-----··· ------- Wilson ... Continued from Page 1 Philip. Rrice, will play Vladimir in Godot. He In addition, other works to be performed dux- appeared as the chaplain in last year's presenta- ing the series of 18 recitals include the \K.lavi- tion of Brecht's Mother Courage and Her Chil· eruebung Part III\ by Bac.h 1 the major preludes dren. He has had extensive theater experience and fugues for organ by Bach, and a selection at Union, in high .school, and with community of 18 great choral-prelud-es from the Liepzig groups. He is cur.rently teaching a seminar at period. The French repertory will be represented Notre Dame High School in Schenectady, by works of Franck, Dupre, Messiaen, Alain and Widor. The early masters of the keyboard will be Playing Estragon will be Kent Kraft, last year\s represented by works of Frescobaldi, F'r()berger, St. Andrews eJCchange student. In addition to a Sweelinck, Pachelbel and :Boehm. theater career at Union, Kraft has appeared in community theaters. He has also worked in sum- The programs for this year will be presented on mer stock as a stage manager. Friday evenings and Sunday afternoons, October 20, November 21, January 21, Febmary 25, April David Van Derburgh will portray Pozzo. His 5 and May 5. The first program this Friday, will last ro!es were :in The Alchemist,. where he.played feature works of Couperin, Mozart, Bacll. Brahms, 1 L.::~:.:;;o!;.,e.:o;w..:..I.;;..~'..:..-:.:;;a..:..n;;;d.;;..·..:..m=t=h..:..e=1=9.;;;;_ 6=5=p..:..ro=d=u;;;:c=ti=· o=n:; . ..:..o=f=·;p=ll'=· =a=n=- =M=e=ss=i=ae=n;;:-'=a-=n=-d~-A~la;;;:~;.,n\'\: ;.;,.· =o:=:=;;;;-;.,-=-=-=-...:.. .. ====- AT OLEY'S LIQU~R STORE discover true meaning of SERENDIPITY Special consideration for Union men Cor. Eastern Ave. & Jackson 377-0350 ~EWEST LIJ,_.CH 71..5 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DI\'NERS AND SANDWICHES -TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students_ Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 192 1 ) MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP ST ARTINO OCT. 3 1 All Ha irc:uts to be done by Appointment from Tues. thru Fri. Appointments not neces· sary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 377-4010 Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M.-3:00A.M. , LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - Ame,ican Food 1125 BAR.RETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar Despite fiendish toriure dynamic BiC Duo writes first time, every time! src's rugged pair of stick pens wins. again in unending war against ball-point skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, BIC still writes first time, every time. And no wonder. Bic's Last year Mrs. Draper had a nucleus of ten students working with her. If the enthusiasm is great enough this year, she has tentative plans 1 for a short performance. These classes offer an-1 ~~;ratob~~~~~nity for participation in the fine MONROE. For anyone interested in using the college . . · .. darkroom facilities and/or shoot for the GAR- ELECTRIC C .. byamite'\ Bal1 is the hardt-st mE'tal made, t\ncased in a solid brass nose cone. '\lill not skip, dog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Cet the dynamic BIC Duo at your campus store now. NET, there will be a meeting in room 305 Bailey MLl>UL ... hall at 3 p.m. Tuesday Oct. 24. 1 $118 50 Any faculty members wishing copies of the · Film Series brochure may obtain them by con- tacting Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities office. I . There will be a meeting of all those who wish ·SQ; ROOT. TABUS to prote~t the coming of Winter, at 4 a.m. to- INCLUDED morrow morning under the Idol. Organize now and make your opinions known before the first snow falls and it is too late! Become involved in the decision-making process and stop Winter before it starts and escalates beyond controL Winter Solstice cards will be on sale at the This MONROE calculator is ideally suited for meeting. I standard deviations a11d all statistical calcula· The library has recently received the first part' lions, every computation arising in science of a collection of books dedicated to the memory and commerce. of President Carter Davidson. The donation was • The most acclaimed calculator in the made by the Class of '66. Class President A. Monroe line. ~tephen pubansky select~d the books .from. a • The phrase_ operators who kn~w hst compiled by Mr. Edwm :K. Tolan, Librarian . . . . and Mr. Wayne F, Somers, Acquisitions Librar- prefer Monroe -was co1ned on th1s ian. model MA7-W. Mr. Tolan stressed that these are quality completely reconditioned and Fully books and cover a wide range of subject matter. anteed For On• Year against :~.;!~~:.;~!1 defects of any kind Including r• parts and labor, Ouost cover, antee and op41ratlng instructions eluded with each machine. The Student Science-Research Committee pre- sented its first seminar of the year on W ednes- day, October 18 at 7:15 P.M. in the Hale House dining hall. Dr. Willard Roth, Chairman of the Department of Biological Sciences, spoke on the \Recent. Findings Concerning the Mammalian Pineal Gland.\ ! Please se11d me 1he MA7W Elec1ric Calculator. I under- stand this IJlachine is fully guaran- teed one year ag<Jinst defects both in parts and labor. 0 Enclose!~ is $119.50 ship prepaid D Enclosed is $25.00 ship C.O.D. NAME-------- ADDRESS------- ~I.: I@ WATERMAN-SIC PEN CORP. r.tllFORD, CONN. BiC Medium Point 1S~ BiC Fin~ Point 25¢

4 Thursday, October 19, 196'7 Japan Summer: Urban Living Marks Land of the Rising Sun '•· • By JOHN BERGER I arrived at Tokyo's Haneda International Airport 'Oll July 1, 1967. Because of the nature of my work and educational background, I had an unparalleled opportunity to feel, to experience, and .to appre· ciate the essence of Japan. As a history major in Far Easten studies, I had somewhat more than a superficial knowledge of Japanese his- tory and culture. My stay of two months was admittedly too short, but it was long enough to get an inside look at the -we>rldngs ot Japanese society. And most important, I lived, worked., ate, drank and played intimately with the Japanese. For three weeks, I lived with four Japanese families and from the end of July through August, I taught English convevsatjon and pronunciation to Japanese English teachers under the asupices of the English Language Education Council in Tokyo, which supervises ,_ Heian Sing11 Garden in Kyoto, Japan summer seminars throughout Japan for this purpose. I qualified because I was, in the words of the Council's Executive J)irector, \a fresh native speaker.\ (A special note of thanks is due l1.ere to Mr. Donaid R. Thurston, professor of History at Union, and the Japan Society of New York; without their help I could never bave made this trip.) I came back to the United States on August 30, U67 -with many changed ideas and impressions about Japan, the United States, and myself. Of these, I would like to focus on my impressions of Japan. Westernization Japan into an industrial state, there has been an exodus from the rural areas to the cities. This plus the population explosion has created seriotts: housing shortages, and besides the lack of housing, many of the buildings are substandard. Traffic jams constantly snarl the ~ain thoroughfares. Indus- trial and automobile wastes make it difficult to breathe. It is not uncorr.mon to see people wear~ng surgical masks to cover their mouths and noses. If I chose to take the interurban railway; some- 'I' . It' times passenger cars were filled to twice the normal capacity. No wonder some people call Tokyo not a city, tmt a nervous wreck. Just recently, Governor lVIinobe, mayor of Tokyo, invited other mayors of the world's largest cities to Tokyo to discuss common urban .problems. Giant Steps: The Last Trane High Standards '' r( By CLIFFORD SAFANE Most homes in.Japan have television, refrigerator, ~:adio, stereo, electric or gas burner, and one of those fine Japanese cameras. Increasingly, the family car is becoming more accessible to the ri~ing middle class. However, it is often very difficult to park. If \II . this should sound odd to us affluent Atnericans, we should remember John Coltrane and love. Two synonymous expresswns. Unfo~·- that Japan represents Asia's highest standard of living.. Even the tunatelv, the two can't grow together any more because Trane IS problems. of the home seem to be very familiar. For instance, college dead. But his love still remains. education is imperative and competition for admission to one of the prestigious national universities is just as fierce as the competition for places at Ivy League schools. Listen to Trane's <latest and last recording, Expression (Im- pu' se). It is one of the ten()rist'~ finest albums for all four pieces are superb. It is ihE work of a true artist. Be~~ use (bltrane was such a complete musician and human'· being, his music encomnassed PVerything. Anger and frustration . were a part d his music. Hun~er. Loneliness. The dirty streets and poYerty of Harlem. General degredation of musicians. I know that by now all these things are cliches to us. But they do exist. Coltrane experienced them. And consequently, they we~e a part of his rnusic. But love was Trane•s main theme. He wasn't a flower child, hipnie, or a preacher. Just a very perceptive human being who could sing of .personal love, no matter how bad things were. And he sang mol'e eloquently than most of us can. Listen to t!Us albu.m. LOVE. Love between two people. To lie 011: tlle grass at night and stare at Venus. To listen to a bass clarinet shatter the evening stillness. To receive a musician's offering in a smokey cellar. To toud1. a girl. To hear her breath. To feel her breath go into your lungs and become a part of you. To touch her. To feel her body tremble. To feel her body say love. To feel her touch you. To feel her hands grip your back. To feel her love sink into your skin. Softly, so softly. This is Trane, and his mu.sic. A LOVE .SUPREME. :fo _4,./cne: JJapp'J _jJ.nniveJ•Jai''J . . (By the author of \Rally Round the Flag, Boys!\ \Dobie Gillis,\ etc.) THERE ARE NO BAD TEACHERS; THERE ARE ONLY BAD STUDENTS The academic year has only just begun and already one thing is clear: you're not ready for college. What, then, should you do? Should you throw up your hands and quit? I say no! I say you must attack, grapple, cope! I say America did not become the world's leader in motel construction and kidney transplants by running away from a fight! To the question then : You .say you're not ready fo'r col- lege. You're too green, too naive. You lack maturity. Okay, the answer is simple: get mature. How? Well sir, to achieve maturity you need two things: a) aprobingmind; .. b) a vest. A probing mind will be quickly yours if you'll remem- ber that education consists not of answers but of ques- tions. Blindly accepting information and dumbly memorizing data is high school stuff. In college you don't just accept. You dispute, you push, you pry, you chal- lenge. If, for instance, your physics prof says, \E equals me squared,\ don't just write it down. Say to the prof, \Why?\ This will show him two things: a) Your mind is a keen, thrusting instrument. )) II . u. '}) .) .Many people return from a visit to Japan amazed by its so- ,----------------------------, called \Westernization.\ Indeed, viewing Japan thnJttgh. a narrow lens ·this appears to be true. After going through customs at Han- eda ' I took the world's longest monorail to Tokyo center, if there is s~ch a geographical point. Along the way is part of Japan's bus- tling industrial complex which places her third bellid the United States and the Soviet Union in terms of Gross Nattonal Product. To~yo, and for that matter other large Japanese cities which I visited, including Osaba, Fukuoga, Sendai, and Sapporo have an .outward appearance of \Western\ modernity: tall buildings, sophis- ticated interurban communications systems, chic shops, and masses '.Of people who walk at such frantic paces that one w<luld think b) You are in the wrong major . Ask questions, questions, and more questions. That is the essence of maturity, the heart and liver of education. Nothing will more quickly convince the teachers that you are of college calibre. And the tougher your questions, the better. Come to class with queries that dart and flash, that make unexpected sallies into uncharted territory. Ask things which have never been asked before, like \How tall was Nietzsche?\ and \Did the Minotaur have ticks? If so, were they immortal?\ and \How often did ,, tomorrow does not exist. \Nervous Wreck\ THE U~ION U~IO~ The college's feeble attempt to establish a semi-student Union will reach fruition today. A facility known as the Freshmaa Center will officially open at Bronner House. In· operative p()ol tables, pinball machines and chairs will now be available to Freshmen from 1:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. dally. Students who fail to be exhilirated by the center are invited to take part in an orgy of creative writing, etc. in the same building. Simply climb the stairs to our newly decorate!l Concordiensis offices on any Sunday or Tuesday night after 7:30 p.m. Japan is a developed industrial state. The technological revolu- tion has hit it with full force, and any of the problellls that now plague American's urban metropolises (excluding the racial prob- lem) are prevalent in Japan's cities too. Tokyo's probleins, because of the city's sheer enormity, are most acute, but other citi~s can identify with them in relative degrees With the transf()rmatwn of '--------------------------' KNAPP SERVICE LTD. 1000 State St., Sch'dy 12307 - Dl 6-5901) VOLKSWAGEN & IMPORT PARTS & SERVICE The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER AI the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399M 1 630 Mama Bianchi's Fine Italian & Ameri:can Food Open Sur~clay Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatoe~lls with Salad and Coffee,----$1 .00 1135 Barrett St. Private Banqt~&f Room UNION B30K COMPA~l 237M241 STATE STREET Books • • • Paperback Classi c:s Party Favors ..• Art Supplies ____ ,.. ___ _ Office Suppli'es ZELLMER'S NORGE lAUNDRY AND CLJ:ANING VILLAGE AT 1§35'9 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. --·-------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4 Lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 lb.------------ .35 1 DRYERS 30 lb.------------ .50 10 Min._---------- .10 OPEN - .ll •\.M. to 10 P.ll'l. Mon. to Fri. - Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays ·;r.. IF 'feU HAVE NEVE-R HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE ·' WE CAN BET YOU WILL .BE AMAZED .\.,. I Let' the laser freely flow. Down to lovis', let us go, A uniqlle place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT SincE 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large pa.rties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-891 7 1.- Mother Ferro's Restaurant !pecializlng in Italian • American Food Dis~ount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Pitt the Elder shave 'l\ (Incidentally, you may never know the complete an- swer to Pitt the Elder's shaving habits, but of one thing you can be positive: no matter how often he shaved and no matter what blades he used, he never enjoyed the shaving comfort tbat you do. I am assuming, of course, that you use Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, a logical assumption to make when one is addressing col- lege men-which is to say men of perspicacity, discrimi- nation, wit, taste, cognizance, and shrewdness-for Personna is a blade to please the perspicacious, delight the discriminating, win the witty, tickle the tasteful, coddle the cognizer, and shave the shrewd. (I bring up Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades heM cause the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades pay me to write this column, and they are in- clined to sulk if I omit to mention their product. I would not like to see them unhappy, the makers of Personna, for they are fine ruddy men, fond of morris dancing and home brewed root beer, and they make a blade th11t shaves closely and cleanly, nicklessly and hacklessly, and is sharp and gleaming and durable and available both in double-edge style and Injector style. (And f.iiom these same bounteous blademakers comes Burma-Shave, regular or menthol, a lather that out- lathers other lathers, brother. So if you'd rather lather better, and soa~ y~:>Ur whiskers wetter, Burma-Shave's your answer.) But I digress. We have now solved the problem of maturity. In subsequent columns we'll take up other is- sues, equally burning. Since 1953 wh.en this column first started running in your campus paper, we've tackled such thorny quesU.6ns as \Can a student of 19 find hap- piness with an econemics professor of 90?\ and \Should capital punishment for pledges be abolished?\ and \A1•e room-nHites sanitary?\ Be assured that in this, our 14th year, we will not be less bold. * * * © 1967, Max Shulmon The makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades (double-edge or Injector) and Burma-Shave (regular or menthol) are pleased (or apprelaensive) to bring you another year of Max Shulman's rminhibited, uncen• sored column. ,, Thursday, 4 Ne1 anc mi1 Ge1 nic wit Ge Ge yo Ge THE

1967 Thursday, October 19, 1967 ·.· ·· Feiffer Indus- is not er their y; some- 'J' . It' city. No wreck. other common , ·( stereo, to the park. If the 1 college of the t ple, bly b.al- tis did an- and the a col- imi- ight in- ould nna, and that and in out- of is- first hap- 14th '' ( \II ... ,, I )) ·1 '1) II ; . ) : ,, THe\ r?eF6tJS6\ 176FT. MJ~OOtJCED IOONI THAT I~ 11 IG AtSO P~A~~IUG 10 BVlt.D Mlllr5D BARRI£R~ ACF?.O>S 1 TH6 WH[Te Hoosfr \TH6\ STAT6 ~pr._. AI7Dlff0~ TO BUI~Dlf0G A MIUED BARRieR AtJO 11(6 Pf~TNSOfJ. ACROSS SOUTH V16T ~Aif- , . - C0 1 11 AI 1 \I w· . ... , . ; · lVI, tvr·'tl./~V I (.....,- l/IV610f OPliJIOIJ Wl~i FRee CfFlCfAl./~ WHO HAV6 Bf&N t;O BUSV ReBVTI/fJG MISl~FORH­ ATr OtV THAT 1He-V HAVe HAD l,ITTt,£ 1/MG\ TO PLAU FUR.THete MOves AGAHJSf CHfiJA. -------~~- --------~-~------- . '. . SKI OMORE CALENDAR ~- Thursday, October 19: Movie sponsored by Department of Languages, \Anatomy of Love,\ 7:30p.m., Language Center. Fl'lclay, October 20: Lecture sponsored by Psychology Club, \Recent Ad- vances In Infant Learning,\ Dr. Lewis Lipsitt, Professor of Psy- chology and Director of Child Studies Center, Brown University, 7:30p.m., Recreation Center. Tu~sday, October 24: Movie sponsored by Photogra.phy Club, \A Taste of Honey,\ 7:30 p.m., Clark Street Bu,Uding, Rm. 103. (Admission charge.) Wt'!lnes<lay, October 25: Skidmore PerformiH.g Arts Series, Performance of \Much Ado About Nothing.\ National Pl~yet·s, 8 p.:m., College Hall. Thursday, Oct()ber 2(i: TW() films sponsored by Department of Drama, \The War Game\ and \Chickamaugua 4:15, '1. 8:30p.m., Little Theatre, (Admission 50c) Opening of Exhibition of \Funk Pottery,\ by Al'neson, Manzella and Rendich, '1:30--9:30 p.m., Hathorn Gallel'Y· What do they mean when they say Genesee Campus shirts 1He AI~ OF THE'Sf BARRU5RS WILL Bl3 TO CUT DOW~ 1H6\ ,. (~Fit 'fRAT IOU OF 01\f6RSc OPIJJlOIJ WHlCH HAS RfCWTt, ct 13fe~ ' OtJ TH6 RIC5e .f~\ WASH!~fo~-'· 1H6 WHlf6\ HOUS~ f/6~1£:? 1HAT 'THe COkl?TROCTIO~ J OF 9ARt?l6~ Ac~ss ,. WAt;KI~G T01J CAM 8£ R€\6ARD8ll AS A tvew 6SCAf..-ATfO~. 1HI~ CU2e€tJf STet=; IT NAitJfAIIJS, rc; ?rHPC..'< THf3' CO~TftJO AT/0~ CF PRfV(OOS .,. CDf.1HITMetJTS OM D/\JeRS(; OPI~IO~ ltv BFF6Cf SlOCE TI-ff COt, D WAR Bt6AIJ. · · UNION CALENDAR Frl!la.y, Oct. 20: Org-an Recital, Hugh Allen Wilson, 8:00 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Freshman Football vs. Hobart, 2:30 p.oo., Alex:ander Field. Monday, Oct. 23: Navy Recruiting Team. 9 :00 a..m.-4:00 p.m., Hale House_ I:naugm·al Lecture, 8:00 p.m., PrD:fessor N:ierneyer . Tursday, Oct. 24: Student CouncU, \7!30 p.mc., Eale House Student Lounge. Film, \Voyage at the Phoenix,'~ sponsor-ed. by the Vietnam Committee, 8:00 p.m., Social Science 31\lldlng 1016, Wt>!lnrsday, Oct. 25: Convocation, Berlin :Pltilh.annonic Octet, 8:30 p.m .. Memorial Chapel. Varsity Soccer vs. Hobart, 2 :3() p.tn .. , Georg:e Daley Field. Varsity Cross-Country vs. Trinity, 4:0() p.ro.., Eome. International Relations Club. 7 :3(} p.m .• !:[ale House Student Lounge .. Frl<lay, Oct. 27: FUm, \Key Largo,'~7:00 p.ro.. and 9:00p.m., Social Science Building 016. aredlte newest ca.ITipus style? They're putting you on. FREE posterior your room! \ Come along wH~ ~(~ New from Genesee ... sweat ~hirts and party shirts of long·wearing, mitten·soft cotton. Each one has a Genesee beer mug and the world's nicest invitation-\come along with me\ -in bright red and black. You'll always have a mug of Genesee with you when you wear a Genesee Campus Shirt . . • and you'll enjoy your snow-cold Genesee Beer in style. THE·GENESEE BREWING COMPANY, INC., ROCHESTER, N. V. I ,....------ORDER FORM------\\\ NAME-------------- STREET---~--------­ CITY-----STATE--..r...ZIPCODE-- SWEAT SHIRTS ..... $2.40 Each Med. lg. X-lg, ____ TQl'AL $---- PARTY SHIRTS ..... $1.75 Each Sm. Med. Lg. X-lg. ___ T()TAL $---- Total Amt. E.nclo.sed $, ___ _ Send your check or money order to: Genesee Campus Sl1irts, P .0. Box 9856_, Southtown Station, Rochester, New York 14623 Prices include all State and local taxes, postage and handling charges. Allo~v throe weeks for delivery of your order. This offer void where .prohibited by low. I . ' , I.:~~ l!1Jrt N.enr I'AJtk ~i1tttt. l·Et~J < -. '<- •' ,.,: • - .... ,~._....,.. ......... _._~-·----\'-\'-:~~---.~~;-~- ..... ~-~-~.4 ..... ~ .,. ....... . .. BET'OLJJ'fl:(JN JN CZAR ABDICAX'£SJ~\= ''l~\,a.-t~fr1AJJE · .· ElfP.REsS 1N llllJING:. . r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E§~~~;l~~V~:~mv· SLA{~ Take your pick of six colorful front-page blow-ups like this available now from your · New York: Times campus rep. See him to- da:y. A11d sign up for delivery of The New Y()rk Tirnes at special low college rates. Contact: Robert Seefried Beta Theta Pi 5

6 Thursday, October 19, 1967 Thursday, Ot .Letters to the Editor ·!Fro~ Grave Situation To the Editor: Professor Clare Graves-the PLILlhsln:.\d 'f'htU1:1days during the scnoo1 · year by the Student Body of Union Jo:dltorlal OCfke, Old Oym, Union Cvl- lege. Publication Of.fice, Schenecla<ly man WhO means well,. but Can't PI•Intlng Company, 50:1 llrondway. see the \forest through the Colle~e. Schenectady, N. Y. Xatlonal Adver1lslng Representative: X a tiona! E:ntered in the Scl:1enectady Post Of- trees.\ This famous, and rev- ered educator, who has envel- oped h'mself in the study of hu- man behavior, has publicly stat- ed his latest theory on the salu- tary solution of racial discrimi- nation through planned ghettos, mstead of socio-racially devel- oped ghettos. . Adv•rtlsins· Service, Inc.. College fice as Second Class ~!ail Illattet: • Subscrh>tlon 15c a C'opy; $3 a year delivered anywhere In· the United Publishers Represent at lve. 4 ~0 !lladl· son Ave .• N. \Y. C Statfi:ls. SI~:SIOR DO.\Ril J0SI~l'H A. ll ,\S~. Jl:. ·,;g . 3'7~-u;; ................... Edltor-in-t::hluf JOEL RUBE;:-;:ZA'I-IL. '68. . . ..... H7-9430 . ..... . .... Business lllanager lU.CHARD BALAGVR '6~ ......... ............. 374-7418 ............................. News Editor: .AL><S ZIEGLSR. '6D.... .. .............. 3o4·o·llK ................ High Sudety J.<:ditor (;L!FF SA.FA...\\E '69....... .. .................. 3,!!-9730. .. ...... Features Editor; (i;\.RY PILE\\( ~~·T ·1:!1 •... :::u:~-7XH ... ~ports Edt tor JIJNIOR DO,\RD 11lchard Patterson. Jr. '70 ......................................................... Associate :-;ews Editor Dlcl~ Daniel • 70 ....... - ..................................................................... Photograph>' Editor Ste,·e Jo\'ox '7 0. .......................... ... . ....................... Ass't F~atures Editor 1 LPn ~Illlun • -;11... ....... .... .\.s::~o<..·iatt' Sports Editor · :>eil s. Krmne 1 • '·7 0. .. ..... . . . -·- ............ Ass'\ J\Ia.naging Editor . Peter Drotman '69 ........... .... --· __ Xational Advertising 1\Ianager . Dill lllumenthnl '6 s.. ............... ......... ...... .... .......... . ......... Ass't Business lllanager Ste11hen Littman •10..................... ......... . ...................... Subscription 1\lanager : t..:arl Galdsand 1 70 ........................................................................ Cin:ulation 1\-lanager Larry HnthLlonn1 • j'O.. .... ......... . ... ............................ ... ... ..Distribution 1\Ianagex STAFF nlEUBERS XE\\\8: Brian ·Holley, Len Kagan. Carl Englebart, Hal Ross. Roy -l<,ruiterman·. Neal Gordon. B!ll Brelman, Hkhard Rosenbel'!:'• Hic'h Gilman. FI>JATUUI!:S: Scott Siegler. ~P'()l~'l'~: H~nry F•ein. Ju:y l~litzmun 'fhe \American way\ has never been to promote racial isolation, even though our his- tory is rife with such examples. Ko one is proud of our urban ghettos, and to varying lengths we all are interested in c!eans- i:ng our country of these retched conditions, of taking the black community oJI: of welfare hand- outs as a way of life, and letting them enter into our compet:tive free enterprise world ... with their best rising to the top. Dr. Graves' prol)osal codd1es black power, and suggests that, for example, the tormer Na- (',\:SDII).\TI': RI~l'ORTI.:R STAJ.'.F .:\1·;\\·\S·: :-Ht>\'e \'all Curl J>h•tz., Howie .:\lillt>r, A\1 OartnPr. Jnhn Willillrns. tiona! Training School in Wash- !lave ·R.at>-. 1'1-:.\'lTRJo:S: !'au! .\nJre\\\9 .\1 ('olwn. Hany ~lill<>r. K<>nt 'Wiler October 16 ln a letter to the New York Times some months ago, Ashley Monta.gu sought to acquaint Americans with th.e terrible burden of responsibmty they bore by permitting this country to engage in a wholesale slaughter of human beings, otherwise known as war. Mr. M:ontagu's argument was convincing: he dealt not only with the ill-logic employed by American politicians, but more important, pointed to the failure of the American conscience to grasp the enormity of its sin against mah- kind. Unfortunately, his appeal to fundamental human values did not strike home, for most Americans still seem to find the Vietnam war tolerable. Members of the October 16th protest movement have echoed Mr. Montagu's plea of humanity. These people rightly think that a law of this nature trandscends na- tional Jaw. It was because of this feeling that many October 16th protestors demonstrated their unwillingness to co-operate with the selective service system by return- ng their draft cards to the government. Unhappily, the number of those who took such a step s small in comparison to the mass of card-carrying stu- dents. In order for a plan of this sort to be effective, co- operation must take place on a massive scale. And the sad fact remains that it didn't. The October 16th movement did, however, provide American college students with a means of resistance which could conceivably force a change in the adminis- trati<m's war policy. There are well over a million coll-ege students in this country. If only one-quarter of the males ngton, now inoperative, be used :1s a starter for p~anned black :solation from American life. These b!ack people would be autonorr.ous within their com- munity, with pure b!ack govern- :ng officials, {:ure black shop- lteeoer<:. -rure black teachers, pure black garbage collectors, etc. This is somewhat reminis- ~ent of the \beneficient\ actwn of the Russians with regard to their ''Jewish problem\ by cre- ating an isolated state for them. It was only a few years ago that the U.S.S.R. (regardless of their n:otive) admitted that this pro- gram did net work. However, it rr.ust be said that it was a more humane program than the German attempt to create Aryan ower, a.nd to isolate pure Aryan governing officials, pure Aryan ~ommumties, with pure Aryan shopkeepers, pure Aryan teach- ers, ru::e Aryan garbage collec- tors, etc. Modern history teaches us that racial isolation can never be, and is never a solution. At the risk of waving the patriotic flag too much, the 1\.merican way is to educate, to work hard, and to strive to get to the \top.\ Part of the Amer- ican way has been to take cut- siders into our community. Ne- gro involvement has not been so fast as other groups, but purely steady, certain 1 progress has been accomplishe-d, and is evi- dent clearly, in this decade. Professor Graves' pure black society is analogous to the os- trich putting his head in the sand: for what it does is simply to give a sense of false accom- plishment to our Country's prob- lem. And in fact, like the os- trich, we a-re really leaving our- self more vulnerable to danger than if we faced the problem directly. H. Rap Brown and Stokley Carmichael have been the scourge of Martin Luther King, James Farmer and Roy Wilkins. In a short time Carmichael and Brown, through their reckless screaming for Black Power, have in t:his group were to dissociate themselves from the 'eroded years of good will and progress Negro leaders have s_~etive Service System, the government would be faced built un in the United State<>. ,,)~h· t t ·t Id t ' · ·· c '\'\~~-1 th Wh't And although I truly don't feel vvh.: a pro €S I COU no Ignore. en.<:U.Luy, · e l e Professo~~ Graves has even a House W()Uld not order the imprisonment of thousands . gcintilla :~f sympat.J:Iy or com- lradenh with the hkes of H. of y<Jung men in retaliation; and the strain on U.S. war Rap J3rown or Stokley Car- effort would be devastating. michael, I do feel that they are all moving in a common direc- tion, and although Dr. Graves may not so wish it, the end re- su:t of his program would be the same as that of Brown and Car- michael. Briefly, I suggest this: that \V hatever degree of further pro- gress we may want for the black people of America, let that ef- fort be made within the frame- work of -our Country. Prepare lbese r-eople, this minority, to function in our society. And mark my word, if we do legis- ·ate into Ex•stence a well de- fined stt.b-culture, it will work to undermine our democratic culture, and we will an live to regret it. .!Hartin A. Silberg '59 Editor's Note: Mr. Silberg has missed Pro· fessor Graves' point. Dr. Graves is advocating precisely what H. R.ap Brown, Stokely Carmichael md others have demanded for &lacks. These people must in· deed have an opportunity to pass through a stage of development which would allow them to exist without the Whitema11's help, a11d in so doing, would foster a bably needed sense of racial .pride. Also, the revolutionary spirit of the Blacks should not frighten Mr. Silberg so much, since tltis spirit is not unlike one which flourished in this territory not too far in the past. Reality To the :Editor: Your editorial, \Ban ROTC,\ does not, I feel, exhibit the lib- eral attitude of which you so prcud1y boast. In a different article on the same page, you state that problems should not he attacked from the pomt ot v~cw of superficial appearances, 'tltt, rather, from the existing r€auties of which these appear- ances are but external manifes- taLons. Banning ROTC would only be an attempt at treating the outer-most symptoms of a stark reality: war. Since, as you admit, some students do derive 1.\enefits from the program, and since it is purely voluntary, suf- ficient cause does exist to allow ROTC to function on campus. In answer to your statement about blind obedience to author- ity, ROTC is an officer's training program, not a lackey's. Cadets are taught to think for them- selves and to develop leadership qualities that will hold them in 1 good stead far beyond their mil- ' itary careers. In addition, the administration's decision to a'.- Jow ROTC to function on cam- rus is not an anoproval 0f JT'ili- tarism, but a wise acknowledge- tr.ent of reality: most Amerll.:an men wiil someday be cal1ed up- ( n to serve their country through the Armed Forces. By a ~lowing those who wish to bet- ter prepare themselves for this commitment, the op~ortunity ~nd the means by which to do it, the college is fulfilling its re- SJ?Onsibilities as a liberal insti- tution of learning. If, at any time, I believed ROTC to be of anything but the greatest value and significance, I, and many others like me, wou\d not now be cadets. Phil A. Robinson, '71 The idea of changing U.S. Government policy through the actions of a single group is a staggering thought - but not an unrealistic one. The potential exists in the supporters of the October 16th drive. We are pleased that students and faculty of this college were active participants. ., 135 ERIE BOULEVAR!) 1\~· Gertrude The Dean of Students' office is strangely quiet. Some- one very important seems to be missing. Gertrude Antemann, secretary to Dean Pollock, coun- selor to students and purveyor of all sorts of information has moved to the library. We are sure that Concordiensis speaks for countless Union students when we express our sadness that Miss Antemann's warmth, kindness and unassialable good hUinor will no longer be found in Old Gym Hall, the nerve center of student activities. Happily, though, Miss Antemann will not be too far away. Boul'eva rd Bowl 3 2. AMF Bowling Lanes Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M.. SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Serving Union f'or 34 Years Sll VER DIN~R of -Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Exceflent Food and ln.formal Atmosphere Retaliation To the Editor: I, an American ·citizen, Union College student, and ROTC cadet take pen m hand to t::xu·· cise one of the many :freedorr.s won and defended for rr.e by mi'litarism and ''B1ind obed1ence to authority.\ It is my intent to add to the liberal eaucat10n ,_,r the author of the editorial \BA1~ ROTC\ by revealing some of the true Ideals of riuutary Hte . The first lesson in the ROTC manuai concerning commands teaches that it is of ,prime im, portance that the purpose of a command be explained before it is given. This is specifically to avoid a \blind obedience\ situ· atwn. A senseless command 1s a deterrent to maintaining prop- er discipline. You might now ask: \Of what use is this discipline'?\ or \Does this discipline not limit the free- dom of the individual?\ Disci- ph.ne is necessary for the smooth functioning of any large group with a common constructive pur- pose. This is such a basic socio- psychological premise that I wilt not insult your liberal educa- tion by elaborating here. Mili- tary discipline 1s not m the m- terest of limiting individual freedoms, but exists for the pro- tection of them. proud to be a part of a militaris- tic, disciplined organization to defend these freedoms and lives. I would be confident to trust the orders of trained officers such as are graduated from ROTC at Unicn College. AFROTC teaches its cadets lirst to be a gent~eman (fl' lesson 11 hi<.h would do no harm to many of the rr.ost liberal stu- dents at Union). AFROTC teach- es its cadets to recognize and respect proper authority. AF- ROTC teaches its cadets to re- spect and defend our country and its freedoms and people, your freedoms and you. If these lessons are \. . . dramatically opposed to the goals of a uberal education\ or incompatible with Union College \tradition policy\ then I cannot understand my own pride in wearing both the Union Garnet and the Air Force Blue. Frederick J. Jackson '70 E~rown Cup The Brown Cup and other awards will be presented to students next week on October 26 in Memorial Chapel at 11:30 p.m. Fall Lacrosse Several members of last year's Union College Lacrosse team are presently working out ta- gether unofficially. The group includes a~mo1:1t all returning lettermen, members of last year's frosh, and a few of this year's freshmen prospects. No coaches are participating. The group will travel to Worcester, Massachusetts Saturay to take Your editorial presents this polarity: Liberally educated peo- ple believe in \. . . the use of reason in solving conflicts\ whereas m i 1 it a r ism teaches \ .. the use of force in solving problems.\ This is akin to the concept (made popular by peo- ple like yourself) that a uniform stands tor a \warmonger.\ There may be a few sick individuals in t.ne U.:s. Armed .l!Oices wno be- lieve that violence is the best solution of conflict. Militarism in the U.S. teaches how to fight but not that It Is the best an- swer. I believe, and I am con- fident that few Air Force Offi- cers would disagree with me, that the conference table is the best battlefield. However, when and if an alien weapon threatens the freedoms and lives of the people of the world I would be on Holy Cross in an unofficial contest. The host team now par- ticipates in lacrosse on a club \ level, but is hoping to build up interest t h r o u g h preseason contests an convert to a var- sity level program. Dea1.1sgate® 'l.,l1.e Understated Windowpane Check Suit Typically Deansgate-the quiet elegance of these win- dowpane checks. So is the understated natural shoulder tailoring. The fabric: a. crisp-superior wool worstecl. Various colors to choose from. With vest $100. THURSDAY & FRIDAY TILL NINE t ., • ,,. By JA Fr~ 'Ihe Um01 team cante c o~ a 2fH8 w l..S encounte: Coach Bit start .. ng hne s1stmg of P end, Curt Ll ana .IJan Ra Hank WessJ the right sic eneu tu gua1 at tad(.e anc end. The I prised of D< erlJa<:K, Lai liaroHl Hec~ back, with J mng ·0m ot tion. Defen! anU ui·eg ll.Lii .l'aul Bead.e and Hick Ga · .tum em the bacK~ng cor1 Ellrs, '!'om and ·rom H lett msrde . nold was th l'lante ana at the corne was the sat~ By the m quarter Uni 12-0 SCOl'e. 1 with the eJ three mistal hard h1ttin~ set up the hl yard field g, the second , if1° \'-ru~ h'• DIAl Enjoy ( , Cooked ft Comfort a Opp .. on Open Da Sundays 5 ... '9' ' • 9 ' • ' ~ FRANI Whole! Fruits - Ft Twice [ 1231 c Schen 4 4 A A A 4. ~ 2049V CHAR-BRC STE BEEFBURGI w/Fr. Fries F Sci Printi 502 Broac THE ~ ... PLANTE~ 40< ~ and Nutm t

1967 tion to lives. the such at cadets lesson to stu- teach- and AF- to re- people, these atically uberal with policy\ my the Force '70 and be pel year's e team out te- group last of this No The to take par- a club up a var- rosh··Drop Opener At Trinity~\~RPI: · · ' \ Contmued from Page '1 ·l· .. Errors Mar Defensive Effort '~~'.made the ECAC team for his performance against Middle- ·- --uury, and fine senior end Jack Hart, who is Contento's favorite ~eceiver. Gary M!1SJ.?.e;r heads a capable group of ball carriers. The Engineer offense has statis- t'cally dominated an four games that it has nlayed. Chip Sea- burg, linebacker, another ECAC ., ·'! 1) By JAY BLITZ MAN Frosh Football 'Ihe Umon freshman football team can1e out on 'Lhe short end o~ a 2fH8 wunt in 1heir October lJ encounter w.th Trinity. Coach B1 uce Allison fielded a <· start .. ng hneu) on offense con- slstmg of Paul Ramsey at 1e1t end, Curt Lindahl at left tackle ana !Jan Ra}>alJe at guard w ... T;n Hank Wessman at center. On the right side Steve French op- eneu aL guard, lVHke :H.arr1s was at tad(1e and lJan Gould was the end. The backlie!d was com- prised of Dan Kerkoff at quart- erna.:K, Larry ::Sykes at tuH, :HaroHl Heckruan at one runmng back, with Jerry Ostrander run- mug ·em ot the wmgoack posi- tion. Defensively John Foster, anu t:.rr·eg li.Liigon.s Ol•ened at enu. .l:'aui Bead.e playeu nght tacK\e and Rick Galucci complemented · .tum I.Jn the 1e1t s1de. The nne- back~ng corps consisted of Larry El11s, ·1'om Duffy, Ed Arnold, and ·:f'om Ho1t. Duffy was ·che lett ms1de lmebacker, and Ar- nold was the right inside. Rick l'Lante ana Guy Caruso started at the corners and Doug Werth was the satety. By the middle of the second quarter Union was down by a 12-0 scol'e. The detens1ve ·squad, with the exception of two or three mistakes, played a tight, hard hitting baH game. They set up the hrst Union score, a '.L7 yard field goal by Duffy late in . 1.he second quarter, hy recover- ira <> -~'u~ h ,, 'l'hn \nlv s<'~rp in lines. Both have knee injuries, and both were to have played important roTes for Coach Al:li- son. a1 -s~ar heads the R.P.I. dete.nse. the th;rd period was the :result oi an mterception by linebacker Duffy, who carried the ball to the five. Fullback Sykes did the work from there, cracking over rrght tackle behind Mike Harris for the score. The conversion was good, and the score was then 12-10. With several minutes X f'f R P.I. should bP rut for rPvenlle •tJOU n try . . . after five straight humnating de- feats and they w1H have a .arge h · n:ecoming crowd pulling for them. remaining the Union squad pen- Dawson, eleventh. etrated to the Trinity three, be- The varsity meet .saw a super- fore yielding on downs. This lative performance :by Vermont's period also saw a Holt field goal Cook. He covered the 4.7-mHe attempt from the thirty fall course in 25:59.4 to tal{e top short. honors. Cook was more than a In the fourth quarter the in- minute .and a half in front of experienced frosh were victim- the next finisher, and clese to tzed by costly mistakes. Trinity four minutes before the Gar- recovered one of severai Union net's first finisher, Ron Ruhl, fumb~es deep in Garnet rerri- who was clocked in 29:50 for tory. They quiCkly capitalized e1ghth place. Three other Union by scoring on a pass play to harriers were dose behind, with Dave Kiarsis, a IUnning back. Pete Ericson leading the group Later 1t was Kiars1s agam, dash- with a 30:19 for ninth. Myron mg eighty five yards through Fribush, who ran near the top the right side on a missed de- five Vermenters .during most ·Of ttnslve assignment. With the the race, faded disappointingly score at 26-10, Ostrander took near the finish, capturing tenth off on an eighty-nine yard kick- in 30:55. Right on his heels was off return. Union went for two Carl Thumm, who finished elev- following Ostrander's T. D. enth, in the same Ume. scamper, and was successful. Vars1ty prospects for success 'W hLe Coach Allison was this season were further damp- hardly elated over the defeat he ened during the week as Jeff fe.t the defense played well, Lansing was Iost for the season. and the whole squad hit hard. He suffered a broken leg and Continued from Page 7 Mistakes have been cost'y to the Engineers as Contento has been intercerted nine times in the last two garres, and the of- fense has also lost the ha~l six times on furr,bles in'those same games. Size and depth are two of the main R.P.L weaknesses. Garnet fullback Kevin Monahan at 225 pounds is larger than any of the En~ineer linemen. Sev- eral key R.P.I. players, includ- ing Hart and Masner, may play both ways to give the Garnet an, edgewith its two platoon system. Defense is the Engineers' big- gest problem as they have 14 touchdowns in their four games. R.P.I.'s pass defense is on'y fair, so if either of the Garnet throw- ers has a .good day, the ~arne could he broken open. R.P.I.'s two wins came against two rather poor teams. Middlebury was un- dermanned with only 28 men in uniform, and Haverford may be the worst team in Eastern footbaLL R.P J., despite its weaknesses, lllay not be an easy game for the Garnet because unlike past year's teams, the Engineers can not be expected to lay down and On October 20, the frosh will other injuries in an automobile host Hobart, a club coming off accident last weekend. Frosh ot a l<t-tl VIctory over Altrea last hopes were somewhat dampened ::,aturday. Alfred was 1·0 prior when William Walker was lost to that game. Injured in the to academics. Bill was one of Trinity game was guard Ken Coach Ketz's most promising Jacoby, who joins linebacker prospects for this year's frosh George Gierhart on the side- and future varsity squads. ~--~-~~~-==-~========~- -------~=~~~--~~------------------------ die. ' 1 DIAMANTE'S >I • • Enioy Our Fine Horne Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Not+ Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to A.M.· ~'t '9' i + ¥ f t f f 'f Y T T ~ FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail Fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. l Dl 6-1763 . • .. • ... 4 .... 4 + ........ ......... .A...L~ DA·RI TREET RESTAURANT 2049 Van Vranken Ave ~.) CHAR-BROILED STEAK DINNER $1.,50 BEEFBURGER PlATIER $1.10 w/Fr. Fries & Vegetable FR 7-4261 Schenectady Printing Co., Inc .. 502 Broadway 377-8838 .. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS 406 STATE ST. Nutmeats from all over the world. Th~se U.S.Air Forye officers are getting what they want out of life. You can be one of them. What are they doing? They are performing a job of importance. Hour after hour. Year after year. Many of them will serve for 20 or more years. The fruitful part of a man's life. Wi II yours be fruitful and creative? Or just spent? You're going to college to do something- constructive, important. And you can be sure of it, in the U.S. Air Force. Start now in the Air Force ROTC program on your campus. Your Professor of Aero- space Studies will explain the variety o~ career opportunities. Pilot. Navigator. Engi- neering. Science. Administration. If you get in on it, you get paid to be part of the most exciting technological break- throughs of all time. You'll iDecome a leader, an officer in one of America's most vital organizations ... the U. S. Air Force. You can be part of the Aerospace Age when things are.rnpst excittng .. _. qt the begin- ~ :•<:· t:\ • - .. ning. While you serve your country, the whole universe will open Up to you. There's a 2-year Air Force ROTC program, and the 4-year program has new attractive financial assistance provisions. Lots of men waste their working years. But you don't have to be one of them. CONTACT: Professor of Aerospace Studies Hoadley House or Phone 374-6523 7 Kegle·rs Open Mon. Siena First Foe The Union College BowLing Club begins competition in the Capital Di§tfict Collegiate League Monday night at the RPI Stu- dent Union lanes at 7:30. Siena will Jlrovide the competition for the Garnet'~. first match. The other teams in the ~eague are RPI . 1 and 2; .Albany Stilte, and Hudson Valley Commumty College. The Garnet 't'eam will be chosen from the Dutch Classic League which roJ:ls' ·at Boulevard Bowl, Thursday nights at 9. Sophomore S~IIdy Williamson's ms series and John Hine's 254 single highlighted the first week's action in the Dutch Classic League. Williams()n. had games ·Of Hl3, 232, and 203 to help team #7 take four pc:Jillts from team #:8, Don Hovey's 235-568 and Barry Righi's 209;560 backed up Williamson while Bob Erianne scored 201-546 fo:r the losers. Team #7 had a 936 single and 2660 triple for the high team scores of the week. Hine scored :254;598 to help team :jj;3 split with team #4. Ken Merchant had 5~1 for team #4. Torn Benedict's 207-571 helped team #.2 win throee points from team # 1 which was led by Greg Ellis' 200-561. In other ma:tches team #6 won four points from team #5 while team #9 won three points from team #10. Jim Stratton had 206-566 for #5, Al Case 547 for #9, .John Hammerstrom 537 for #6, and Larry Rsy 234-544 for :jj; 10. Frosh Hooters In Upset As Mindlin Corners Win The Union Frosh soccer team scored an inspirati()nal win over highly rated Ne-w Paltz Satur- day 5 to 3. The:y displayed an unusual amount ·Of teamwork but were not Witllout a stalwart individual perforruance by Fred- die Mindlin fho figured in on all the scoring with two goals and three assists. After instituting a .pressure type offense at the starting whistle, the young Gar- nets captured an early lead off a Mindlin corner 'kick. But, the momentum slowed when New Paltz countered with a score late in the first period and two early in the second. But, a goal by Kevin Coyne before the half put the Frosh back into the game. Steve Berrick scored early in the second half off another Mind- lin kick to tie the game. Later in the third period lVlmd1in scor- ed his second goal from yet an- other corner kick for the go ahead point. The game was \iced\ late in the fourth period by Jack Lauroesch who headed in the last Mindlin uorner of the afternoon_ i STA-PREST® BRAVO LEVI'S The dress-up jeans featuring front scoop pockets, 1apered legs, with the rugged look in assorted colors. Corduro.y-8.00 llopsack-7 .SO . ·,·)' DAVE'S ·Ope~:~ Thurs. & Fri. 'till 9 P.M. fR 4-9609

OCT. 16TH DEMONSTRATION Page2 Conc,ordy Sports SUMMER IN JAPAN Page4 Garnet Defense Imwense In Victory; Prepare For RPI Contest Sat. In Troy Rooters Move Toward .500 Stop St. Lawrenc~, Hamilton The Gamet hooters, with victo11ies over Hamilton ant;l St. •~ 161 V ol. 97 ·- Lawrence and a loss to Clarkson Tech· have moved their record to 2-3. The booters travel to R.P.I. Saturday to meet a strong Engi• neer squad. By LEN SIMON An overwhelming defense and an adequate, but pporadic of- fense gave the Union footbaU- ers a 13-6 victory over Rochester Saturday, pushing the Garnet record to 2-1 and setting the stage for the long awaited en- rounter with RPI. Rochester, boasting two out- standing players in passer Bob Young and receiver Guy Bailey was out t.o even their record at 2-2. However the Union defense was at its strongest on the sloppy field, holding the Yellow- jacket attack to only 38 yards in the air. Tackle Tom Oberst and end John Burton led the front four as they stopped all inside running .and pressured Young into several bad passes. Line- backer Skip Lynch made several crushing tackles, a few of them in goal line situations. Deep back Steve. Ciesinski covered Bailey completely and had one interception. Editors ~ Though the Garnet offense was inconsistent throughout Sat- urday's encounter with Roches- ter, one stable element of this unit was split end Rich Swan. The 5'11\ 180 pound sophomore caught six passes for 148 yards and two touchdowns. \Swanny\ showed his versatility by also running back a fourfh period kickoff 51 yards to set up the Garnet's final touchdown. In the words of Coach George Flood, \What else can you ask of a player?\ Saturday's effort represented the third fine performance of the year by the speedy receiver. Swan hauled in two touchdown passes against St. Lawrence and added another clutch reception at King's Point. With five TD On offense, however;it'wa'S 1:\~-­ most a one-man show. Sophzy-· n~ore end Rich Swan scored both touchdowns on pass recep- tions, ran back a kickoff to set up one of those scores, and cov- ered punts well aH day. The of- fense as a whole failed to sus- tain a consistent attack through- out the day. The first half was scoreless, but each team had one good scoring threat. Swan pulled in passes for 32 and 19 yards from Scott Kumpf to bring the ball to the visitors 15 but tackle John Clarke intercepted a screen pass and ramb~ed to the Union 11 where Joe James pulled him down. From there the Garnet line rose to the crisis and held twice, then rushed Young into hurrying a pass which Ciesinski intercepted in the end zone. In the third period, Steve Bauer picked off a Young aerial at his own 35 and from there Kumpf and Swan went to work catches he stands one short of Art Marshall's 1964 record of six, and within four of Marc Hurlbut's career record of nine. ln all he has sixteen grabs for a total 'of 313 yards in three games. Starred at Elmira Rich starred at Elmira Free Academy in football and track. Last year he played halfback on the freshman team and was onP of their most consistent ground gainers. This year he made the switch to split end an<k has shown no loss in usefu'ness in his new position. He was als'> a member of the once-defeated frosh lacrosse team as a mid- fielder, never having played the sport before entering Uiiion. there's one pierce that does lt ... ! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Rings Sized • Engraving • ON Pearl & Bead Stringing THE PREMISES -T av nYIELRY Ulti. COMPANY ~·· again. They got together for 29 yards, and after two rushing at· tempts for short yardage, an· , other pass resu·ted in a 34 yard scoring .strike. Art Jacobs added the extra point. The third period ended with the score still 7-0. but a Kumpf pass was deflected several times and finally intercepted by Jack ~hinnock at the Union 19. Ro- chester then drove to the 3 where they faced a fourth and goal situation, but Young found Bailey in the end zone to pull up to 7-6. A' conversion attempt seemmg1y was successtul as Lyon'l swept almost untouched, but it was ruled that Young's knee had touched the ground be- fore he pitched out. Rochester appeared rejuven- ated as they kicked off, trailing by Ken Pearce to Swan and wingback Craig Carlson, Swan broke f@r the corner of the end zone from the 9 yard line and Pearce met him there for the clincher. -- ' Gary Prevost Rich Swan Gershon's Sandwiches Cold ,.c,ts Salct.,d$ _ ... ';; : ,.,._. Ope.n Tues. __.·-.sun ., ·;·:r • 8 A.M. to. 9 ..P~/~f: , ~) ·' • :r 2 .. 2 Engineers Face·''Garnet One of the oldest and most traditional rivalries in intercol- legiate sports continues Satur- day as the Garnet gridders trav- el to Troy to meet the Engineers Gf R.P.I. The two teams have met 64 times since the series be- gan in 1886, when Union first began footba1l. Union has won 4.8, lost 12, and' tied 4. Since 1949, the Union-R.P.I. .riva:ry has been formalized into an annual contest for the Dutch- man's'· &hoes Trophy. The tro- 1 by waif set up by a joint com- mittee appointed by the student councils of both schools follow- ing particularly destructive fG· rays to the campuses on the night before the 1948 game. (The Garnet won the game 35- 14). Union won eight straight from the Engineers between 1949 and 1956 before R.P.I. turned the tide by willing three in a row, 1957-1959. Follow- ing 14-7 and 10-8 decisions in 1960 and 1961, the Dutchmen have piled up wide margins, winning 44-6 in 1962, 29-6 in 1963, 27-3 in 1964, 48-14 in 1965, and 31-14 last year. In the per- iod 1960-1965, R.P.I. ran up a 43-game losing streak. The 65th renewal of the .series on Saturday promises to be one of the best in the long history as Rensselaer's football fortunes are rising. After losing to Un- ion last year, R.P.I. ran off a four-game winning streak, clos- ing with a convincing 36-6 romp over Rochester, to achieve its 1' rst winning season in many years. In 1S67, the Engineers opened by stopping both Middlebury 32- 24 and hapless Haverford 61-14. R P.I. has met defeat in its last two games, however, losing 22-0 to Hamilton and 33-21 to Drexel. R P.I. has a fine offense led by quarterback John Contento, who Continued on Page 7 Tuesday, the hooters used a str-ong :first half effort to defeat previously unbeaten Hamilton 4-2 on llaley Field. The Continentals controlled play early in the game, but after missing two good scor• ing oppovtunities,. they yielded to the G-arnet, who took charge and moved to a 3-0 half-time lead. Robert OkeHo scored first for Union with an assist from Mike Solomon. Tijan SaHah and Mike Solo. mon scored second period goals with the former being assisted by Andy Sherman. Hamilton, now 2-1-rt. on the season, contr.olled play throughout the second half and closed the Garnet lead to 3-2 with 12 minutes left in the contest. However, a ,penalty kick by Larry Mc- Farlane four minutes later closed the ,door on the rally. Ben Volin, ski played a fine game in the nets, maldng fourteen saves while ·center-half Brian Gillie played another good contest despite sitting out part of the third period when he was badly shaken up. The Garnet triumphed at St. Lawrence 4-2 to open their North- ern trip and were trounced the follo-wing day by Clarkson 8-:3. Ting Pau Oei scored two goals and <Hello and Sallah one each , in the St. Lawrence game when the 'G-arnet toook a 3-1 lead and held on. Saturday's encounter with Clarkson was total disaster. The Garnet boaters, upon hearing that Clarkson had been beaten A surve' revealed si reservation cerning ,tJ •.comp. Ed. whose mail study proE go out int e with social was propm facu.ty cor trustees. Opposin~ by St. Lawrence, may have been overc:onfident. Clarkson, a large team physically due to the lack of a football team at the school,, ' played a rough game bordering on iUegality and completely smoth- ered the Garnet. Coach Brown cited f11llback Larry McFarlane for his play against St. Lawrence, and Pete Palen for his performance against Clarkson. departmen fessor Carl departmen posed wm ,, • welfarism\ the idea oJ out to do 1 want to, i1 why every fi lle said. UYM Outruns Garnet~ 15-50 This Week's Games: Football: I•'l'lday: Hobart at Union (FJ AlexanderFleld 2:30 Saturday: Union (2-1) at R.P.I. (2-2) WRUC Play-l>y-play 1 :30 Soccer: Saturday: Union at R.P .I. 12 :00 Union (F) atR.P.I.2:00 Monday: Unlon(F)at Northwood Wednesday: Hobart at Union Daley Field 2 :30 Cross Country: Saturday: Union (V&F) at R.P .I. 12 :30 'l'hmsday: Trinity (V&F) at Union 3:30 last Week's Results: Faotball: Union 13 Rocbest<.r 6 Tr:nity 26 Union (F) 18 Soccer: Union 4 St. Lawrence 2 Clarkson 8 Union 3 Union 4 Hamilton 2 Union (F) 5 New Paltz 1 Williston 2 Union (F) 0 Cross Country: Vermont 1-5 Union 50 Vermont 2'() Union (F) 37 Williston 20 Union (F) 37 ICAC Football: Alfred 4a St. Lawren'Ce 14 Other Football: Williams 39 Middlebury 3 HamiltC>n 28 Hobart 0 Rrexel Tech 33 R.P.I. :>\ 'J.'lu Union College Cross Coun- try teams, both varsity and freshman, opened their 1967 ' home seasons Tuesday when they met ,the perennially tough harraers fvom the University of Vermont. The varsity lost 15- 50, while the frosh bowed to the young runners from the North 20:37, The frosh .::ontinued to sh01v a great deal of promise as thP.y began their first season in the Garnet coiors. Coach Ketz has term.ed any runner breaking six- teen minutes for the three mile course \a real prospect.\ Tues- day's meet saw the first five runners all fall under the JY'a«tn figure. Leaders for the frosh were .fohn Braham who finished third in 15:44, and Joe Burgess, fifth. in 15:49. Rounding out the scoring five for the frosh were Richaxd Cooperwasser, eighth Steve Bas- se!, who finished tenth, and Bill Continued on Page '7 c Joining i pulsion pa •uam Hunt chology De notion of would def1 8 gram. It ii of it. I f: work,\ he E but with you'H find for going • that becat arguing a~ \arguing ar that his i lie pointed in purely · find the appealing. • individual to the ver: in any ser Alter Calling 1 ally sound man of tl '~~expressed \of makin a requiren not believ• • of involve · better try for the es opportunit their Com they \are ence in w1 Hopeful tl tunities w FRC 315 State Street. Schen('ctacly Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. Dean Pollock that H again ~ student Frosb l FR 4-8219 ·' NEW- fiNO SCHOLARSHIPS BY COMPUTER Last year $30 million in college schol- arships went unclaimed -because no qualified persons applied ••• because no qualified persons knew of them. • Now ECS engineers and educators have programmed a high-speed com- puter with 700,000 items of scholastic aid, worth over $500 million, to permit students to easily and quickly locate scholarships for which they qualify. • The student fills out a detailed, con· fidential questionnaire and returns it to ECS, with a 'One-time computer-proces- sing fee of $15. In seconds the compu- · ter compares his qUalifications against requirements of grants set up by foun- dations, business, civic, fraternal, re· ligious, and government organizations. and prints a personalized report to the student telling him where and when to apply for grants for which he qual- ifies. Thousands of these do not depend on scholastic standing or financial Qeed. r FREE-- -- - ... - - - , 1 INFORMATION AND SAMPLE D.UESTIONNAIRE 1 I .,...., NORTH AMERICAN E,UCATIONAI-1 .I .L CCMPUTER.B~RVICEBa INC, I I e ,. 5 195 NASSAU STREET' 1 .. PFiiNCETQN,NUW,JERS'S.V I Send--,---O.uestionnalres qty I I name-----:=~----- 1 (print) I address 1 I I 1 ________ zi~ _____ :..l · YOU'RE A BLOCK AWAY FROM THE FINEST SELECTION OF WINE, LIQUORS, AND CORDIALS OUTSIDE NEW YORK CITY. WALK DOWN ••• OR CALL US PHIL ENGLEHARDT'S CHECKS CASHED ••. 511 UNION STREET ••• FR 2-4788 'For three Generations!· Those Who Know Have been recommending - ·1·. HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Is distinctly un-foppish. Most especially when the Gentleman leans to tradi· tional attire, and the Es· tablishment's stocks. One such garment, a hand- some raglan topcoat, is shown. Others await, in generous array. 69.95 - 89.95 The 1tl ~quirt ~ijop OPEN THURSDAY AND FRIDAY TILL 9 P:M. 326 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY Hazir Dean s recent commit dents \i ary pre men or wa~ Uni1 By l The nat ,, velopment they excit over lOO,t Pentagon movement to achieve rights mo~ These r: not there Dr. Spoclt pr:oclaitn moved to was for , 1 thousands gon and t urday nigl vocal and their unit• Vietnam. More tt the Penta tary PolicE gas and l Pentagon the dem.lln

., ., and St. ·~ to Engi. Washington. P,roles:t Page 1 ti'Vol. 97 ·-No. 6 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENE·CTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, OC:fOBEit 26, 1967 SKIDMORE CALENDAII PageS PRICE 15 CENTS to defeat good scor- and for Union Solo. ssisted by ·Se·niorComp. Ed. Stirs Faculty Opposition BY RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. Student Survey Will Assess Union Courses By JOHN WILLIAMS During the eighth week of the first tri-mester, a course evaluation poU will be distributed on Campus. TAX CO'M:MlTTEE HIN,D:ERS SKIDMORE BUS PROP'OSAL with 12 Larry Me- Volin, while sitting A survey of faculty members has revealed strong opposition and many reservatwns am()ng the faculty con- cerning ·the Pl'O!)osed new senior marked that \unless there is a real sense of profit, the pFogram won't be useful to students, the college, or the .community.\ BY JOSEPH MANN North- 8-3: one each lead and disaster. beaten n, a large school,· smoth- arlane for 1111 .Comp. Ed. program. The program, whose main tea1ure would be a work- study program where seniors would go out into the community to work e with social .and community agencies, was proposed in a recent report of a facu.ty committee to the faculty and trustees. Opposing opinions cut <;~cross all · departmental a.nd center hnes. Pro- fessor Carl Niemeyer, chairman of the department of English, called the pro· posed work-st11.dy pmgram \forced ,, • welfarism\ and said he objected to the idea of .compelling students to go out to do this type of work. \If some want to, it's al!ight, but I don't see why everyone snould have to do it,\ ., (f he said. ross Coun· rsity and b.eir 1967 \ when ally tough of y lost 15- to the the North d to show as thP-y in the Ketz has six- mile Tues- first five the JY'a « 1 ~ the frosh finished e Burgess, coring five Ricba:cd Steve Bas- and Bill '7 Comp1.1!sion Decried Joining in protest against the \com- pulsion part of it\ was Prof. C. Wil- •!iam Huntley, chairman of the Psy- chology Department. He said that \the notion of compulsion for some men would defeat the purpose of the pro- 8 gram. It wou<\d take all the j?y O!J.t of it. I frankly don't thip.k 1t w1ll work\ he said. \It's a beautlfu:l dream, but with 300 seniors, I don't think you'll find them all having a feelit:g for going out ~ike .this.\ Huntl~y ~aid that because of ltS lofty Ob],ectlye, arguing against the program 1s hke \arguing against motherhood\ and 3 that his is a \practica! a~gument\. lie pointed out tllat a semor mterested in purely theoretical work might not find the work,study program very appealing. Huntley called for a \m9re • individual answer that pays attentwn to the very rea:l personal differences in any senior class.\ AlternaiiYe for C omp. Ed. Calling the work-study idea \bas!c- ally sound\ Prof. A. T. Goble, ch~lr­ man of the department of Physics, 1111 expressed his doubts over the wisdom · \of making tile work-study program a requirement .for all students. I do not believe one can legislate a sense • of involvement\ he said, \one can · better try to induce it.\ He called for the establishment of alternativ~s opportunities fC>r seniors to fulfill their Comp. Ed requirement so that they \are I}Ot :forced. into a11 exper~; ence in wh1ch they have no mterest. Hopeful that s11ch alternative oppor· tunities will b.e provided, Goble re- FROSH HAZING Dean Of Students 0. Edward Pollock announced yesterday that the cHscipline committee again wishes to caution Union students against any type of Frosh hazinll. Hazing of Freshmen, the Dean said, is prohibited. At a recent meeting of the discipline committee, three upperclass stu- dents were placed on disciplin- ary probation for taking Fresh· men on joyrides. Prof. Norman A. Mercer, chairman of the Economics Department, when asked his reaction to the proposed program, said .. I am against it. The program is neither educationally sat- ,isfactory or technically feasible. The mechanics of the administration of the program win be awkward and costly; .consuming time and energy which might be .spent on efforts which would be more educationally sound\. Enormous Effort Required The mechanics of the program most concerned Prof. Edward J. Craig, Prof. of Electrical Engineering. He cited the '\enormous amount of effort required .to set up and supervise the pmgram,\ and also raised the ques- tion of what students would actually do on their internship. He expressed .the fear that some might simply end up sipping coffee around a table for two weeks. \I am for the principle,\ he said, \but it might be wise to set up a pilot program to try it out and report to us before going ahead in fulL\ Sending students out to work in the community is a good idea, Craig said, provided they learn something about what the real world is like. C~ntinued on Page 2 ·. 1f student response is serious and mature, this could prove to .be a valuable aid to students and ad· ministration in the months to come. Under the direction of Steve · Glanzrock, Pete Siegel, and Bill Breiman, a questionnaire wil'l be given to all under.graduates to be filled out and returned within a period of three to five days. There will be general questions pertain- ing to each of .the student's cour- ses. Assuming the questions are answered seriously, the pollsters feel an accurate and valuable eval- uati()n of each course and pro- fessor will result. The completed questionnaires will be processed by the college computers located in the Electrical Engineering Building. Not an Ordinary Poll This evaluation is not meant to be just another ordinary poll of student opinion, but rather its pur- pose is to supply both students and administration with an ac- curate criterion .for determining the value and effectiveness of each course and the professor teaching it. It will also provide the faculty with a unique evaluation of itself that can furnish useful insights into their own effectiveness. Continued on Page 3 Plans for a bus to Skidmore were hampered this week by loud opposi- tion from the Student Tax Committee. Bob Giovanetti, who is directing plans for a Skidmore bus .beginning in November, was told that the tax committee \was not at all interested\ in seeing Union and Skidmore served by such a bus. Jim Rubenstein, chairman of the tax committee, told Giovanetti that \Skid- more doesn't want you.\ The com- mittee spokesman also said that the group is opposed to the idea of com- bining Union and Sltidmore and told Giovanetti that Union students who wanted to go to Skidmore should go on their own. Trial Run A Concordiensis article last week described Giovanetti's plan for run- ning a bus to Skidmore on a trial basis during November. Giovanetti sought small contributions from Union activities to supply the $600 needed for this cause. Members ·of US at Skidmore are planning t() run a bus from Skidmore to the Union campus at the same time. Giovanetti reports that several groups have already pledged support for the project. Dean Lichterman, the Upward-Bound program and the de- partment of music have rnade funds available for the bus. A Power sweep has the look of the Green Bay Packers as Doug Mele ( 67), Ted Jennings ( 751, and Ed Valentine ( 63) lead the way for Jo:') James in victory over RPI during which he broke Union's rushing record. GriddersSquelchEngineers37-25 :By LEN SIMON Despite a charged-up R.P.I. team, a mediocre performance by the Gar- net defense, a big Homecoming crowd, several questionable calls by officials, and an airborne \Beat Union\ banner the Union football team came away with its eighth straight triumph in the ancient series by a score of 37· 25. Next on schedule for the 3-1 Garnet is Hobart, which will supply the opposition for Homecoming Sat· urday at 1:30 on Alexander Field. The Garnet offense ranged from spectacular to spotty as they roared into a commanding lead in the third period, and then needed a 53-yard kickoff return by Craig Carlson to get them going again for the clincher. Outstanding throughout the contest was junior halfback Joe James, who broke a Garnet one game rushing record with 143-yards on 29 carries and two scores. Also impressive was sophomore quarterback Ken Pearce who was starting his first game. See- :Washington Peace Movement Expresses United Opposition To War In fietnam to the building or the grounds them- !Vlilitary Police had stretched across ing about three quarters of the offen- sive action, Pearce completed eight of eleven passes for 147 yards and three touchdowns. Rich Swan and Carlson played their usually fine games as receivers, as Swan took a sideline pass for 78 yards and a score, and Carlson corralled two scoring strikes and sprung James for the initial score with a fine block, along with his kick- off return. Fullback Kevin Monahan had his first really productive day after an injury as he picked up 62 yards on 21 carries. Defense Disappointing On · defense the picture was not quite so bright, as that platoon played well during the middle of the game, but was deficient during the first and fourth quarters. They were expected to control the smaller Engineers, but the hosts came up with one of their finest games this year, making key yardage on several \big\ third and fourth down . plays. The front four led by Sam Dill and TClm Oberst, held the R.P.I. running game in check completely, but did not get to Quar- terback John Contento. They did har- ass the signal caller enough to keep him below 50% completions 1 even with the help of two diving catches. The linebacking corps was very effec- tive. Ron McAvoy recovered one fum- ble and intercepted a pass, and sopho- mores Skip Lynch and John Duffy were both praised by coach George Flood after the game. The defensive backfield had trouble stopping the key plays, as Contento and his re- ceivers came up with peak perform- ances in the clutch. By RICIIA.RD SALAGUR The nation's press missed the de· ,, velopments in the peace movement as they excitedly reported the march of over 100,000 ((emonstrators on the Pentagon last Saturday. The, _peace movement had turned to mrlltancy to achieve its goals as had the civil rights movement in t.l).e e~rly '60s. These people in W ashmgton were not there to hear Dave Dellinger or ,I Dr. Spock rail against the war and pr:oclaim the .peace movement had moved- to \active resistance.\ This was for press consumption. The 1 thousands that marched on the Penta· ' gon and those who stayed there Sat- urday night were stati11g in the most vocal and positive way they knew their united opposition to the war in Vietnam, More than 2:000 persons sat-in at the Pentagon ~fter the march. Mili· tary Police armed with riot guns, tear gas and billy clubs surrounded the Pentagon and attempted to prevent the demllnstratcrs from gaining access selves. the driveway leading to the rear of the building. Military Police num- The del!lonstrators marched from bered about twenty there with no the Washington M<lnument to the pressure on them from students other Pentagon as. they had planned and than an occasional break through to as the permit allow~ed. At the Pe~ta- the upper level, where students had gon, the area was m such confuswn gathered This was the first of many i~~ 1 ~~nfhi~~~c:e:~e t~~~gns~~~~~~ unfathon.able actions by the MPs since A f d t h th only 20 yards down the road one was over. ew staye. · 0 ear e could walk to the upper level. I spe!lk~rs orat(l to the crowd but the proceeded to the upper level and maJonty of those who stayed pro- lk d t d h ceeded to the Pentagon to demon- wa e owar s t e pentagon. Here t d •t . I found that 15 or 20 demonstrators stra e an si -m. had gained access to a side door of Those demonstrators who planned the Pentagon and been ejected. Three to sit-in and maintain an all-night vigil or four were arrested. in front of the Pentagon were doing . . . so in direct compliance with the per· . At th1s pomt I would . esbm~te mit issued by the General Services that more than 500 troops wer~ bemg Administration. Accordinig to that used a,s fVIPs. Over to the r1ght of permit the demonstrations were per· t~e bmldmg I could see what looked mitted to protest on the grassy area hke a large mass of troops, :ou~hly outside the mall and on the mall in one thousand or so. At this time front of the •pentagon until 12 mid· the MPs, backed ,llP by US marshalls night sunday. had formed a lme across the road When I arrived at the Pentagon, Continued on Page 2 Chipper Lee got the R.P.I. home- coming crowd on its feet by returning the opening kickoff all the way to the Union 33, where Steve Bauer made a saving tackle. The Engineers Continued on Page 8 Ray Pike, Student Body President, expressed interest in tlle idea of run- ning a bus to Skidmore and felt that Student Activities sh()uld contribute to the cause. In the light of s!Ipport already shown this project, Giovanetti sees the tax committee'S sban d as \unrea- sonable.\ He plans to ,eon tact activ- ities not influenced by the tax cC>m- mittee in order to rais€ funds. Issued App.ee~l Giovanetti has issued an appeal to all members of the C()Hege commun- ity, calling for contr-ihutions. He has set up a special fun<! at ,the Student Activities office in order to raise money for the Skidmore bus. Anyone interested in makil!g: cC>ntributions may do so at the Sttrdent Activities office. Rubenstein saw :this means of raising money as aceept!tble. Giovanetti also issued an appeal for co-workers on th.e project. He asked for \an h~dicati<Jn. of support'' for this plan from students. Those in- terested in working with Giovanetti can contact him at his room, 255 Davidson (phone 3!13-8456), or can leave word in the IRC bux at student activities, Student Tax eummittee Plans Council 011 Arts To Enrich Campus Life BY PAUL F.AltN'IIAM The Student Council on the Arts, a new program sponsored by the Stu- Tax Committee, will add variety to the intellectual activitioes on the Union campus this year, according to Jim Rubenstein, chairma:n of the Tax Com- mittee. folJnd-er:S Established by the editors of the campus publications and the heads of the Photography CluJ>, th.e Film Work- shop, and the Movin.g F'inger, this group plans to bring to the college four or five editors, :photographers, or writers per term. llotpefully discus- sions and meetings vtith these people will encourage intere.st in the arts Union. Present f~nctions This project presents one aspect of the functions of the Studoent Ta:x Com- mittee, an ()rganizatio!I which for the most part remains in the background of campus affairs, y~t is essential to the operation of man~ other student activities. The main business of the Committee is the allociation of money from the regular Student Council treasury to officially cfla:rtered organ- izations. These funds «::ollle from the Student Activity Fee ~ai<i at registra- tion eve1·y term. Eacb :fall the various clubs must submit dletailed budget forms for consideratioll by the Com- mittee. According t() Rubenstein, the past five . weeks have been used for interviewing the heads of the activ- ities and working o'llt agreements with them for the year's expenses. These budgets are r~vieVJed again in the second and third terms. However Rubenstein emphasiz:ecl that the Com- mittee gives out the rnoney in good faith and does not attempt to inter- fere with the activities or plans of the groups it supports. Plans for tlu: Year The Tax Commitee must operate as a judicial body by m.aking decisions concerning the alloca.tion of funds. It prefers that exees.sive travel by club members be limited and funds are not given for this p.ul\pose. Instead the Committee encourages organiza- necessary in order to maintain a variety of activities at Union. Continued o:at Page 2

2 Thursday, October 26, 1967 Thursday MILITARY POLICE USE- ·FORCE AGAINST DEMONSTRATORS -~;t\' Mon - -, ~ Continued. from Page 1 aga.nsL a moo 01 ;.-.uvyor Juu.n Lna~:. \Y aS dL\.tolll.f!Uilg \.IJ IJl tctK tHl 0 ll15U LU Lllt:! llJ:IJ:·\'l !UU:>t. It::\ t:1. nUUUL iJ'lJ\1·1UtiU wet e •n:swe Llh<> }!out:e ruH:J~ .:.uany lv ei to: Lt!UllL•IlE; ~llt jJ U 1 1 <.: e lHlll 'l Ulll1Hlj5 cHUUuu., ..llll:: rc;,L \Ytl C ~.aUt116 UUW!l <IL LH(;) 11:t:L Ul lUC J!UUl:t!' l~ 1j!lt· V ellL Lllt:lll ll'Ulll .1lll:llUll5 lOJWiUI:I i::tnU !UOV1ng US Otll. •••an.Y ::.en i:l.J:JJ)Omted Jeaders. were SllUUL1llg OUL !l~W we SlllJU'Ut Dt:SC s• UUJJ uur •ur~:c:s m orcter w .t;l!'t ttl<: UlOSL people ll.f:J 11.llt::!e, 0Un,g;; ;,ll ~Jl il::i . .ti.Ult::UCi::l. tHe .Llt::!ilULLJ.U!. \'it::H:~ Jje1ng :SllU/5 e:~nU :SUOl!LS Ul. \Ul!ll J1() 0 Woe WOll c go t:c!lueou 1:!U'OU5u Ll.l.<: ill tct. ..:ollctl L:S 01 SU!lll.t;IIL !Jl'OKt: tnroUgil Lllt:: uu:,.y <Ill' ,t;l v 11xg tne 1:11ace LUt ugat u1 a S.f:JIYt ut P<u .. ueuetu. Large nLuu· uer::; 01. Ill!Hla'l'y DH:ISS ana J!Lt::>S COUlL! ue seen suomeu aga1HSI tne M'iY un Lne .t'cntagon rl)ot. roriCJe Arrived 11.1 this t1~ne (rou;;my 1 ;()U p.m., pouCe cUT!Vt::U \Vltll lfCU Cl VSS \VC:;)iullS, J.ney \1·tne wa<:tt!:U wun str~IC1l\!\L·~ Jn· SLUe. o:>tretcners Hre uaUluuna.t1)' useu w naut away llt:lllOn:;t.taLor::; v.no go ump on oeu1g ;:ureH~O. l ne :JLne ot Lrouvs oeww puc ·on gas masKs. 'lne;y nan wrmea a srng1e nne OI 1~1l:'s ~Je.ow tne upper ru<ul and. we:re at· tenrptmg to .ll:eep out any more dem- on<>LL awrs. A uounte 1me ot uoops wnn uxed out sneatned Da).'on~:ts wa:; lmea up a10amst tne t'en'Lo<;;;vn. 1ne trool'ers were trymg to Keep the peov1e oe1mv out anu geL as many mner·s out OI tne area as J:.>O.:SStOle. .vrayoe 1UU or us watKect towaros tnem <:~nu mweu a.rouncr. p1~y smnell gran· mng peopre··lr(JJH our ranKs an11 t:!UIJ· om,g r.nem occastonaHy to get tnem oeww. 1 was seaten ott to tne s1cte or thiS area taung notes on the aemonstrauon ann pouce actions. une orucer m this group ot Ml'S was 1n raaro contact Wttn someone else, pre- sumalHY hlgner command. 1 neard mm say \we've got to have some support here.\ Also m this coinmand were tnree men w1tll tear·gas. guns and a m<!n w1t11 a tank ot gas em his back. 1 heard tl:lem say ''lets get this one·' anct 1 was grabbed by twD lV!Ps. l'rotestmg I was press ana should be at least allowed to take notes 1n peace 1 showed my card at their demand. 1 was grabbed and thrown down the ~lope to the left of the Pentagon. Used Gas Down on the lower slopes I heard a few mutfled explosions or poJls and heard a cry of ··gas.\ As 1 Joined the people tac1ng the 1\!Ps I could hear someone sllouting that it was a sKm-irntant gas and uon't rub your tace. The gas didn't appear to be extremely strong and qmte .a few ot the aemonstrators could stay up at the line. My nose and throat felt as 1f they were on fire and I fell back choking. (The Pentagon denies emphatically that any of their troops usecl tear- gas at any t11ne. They chargE that :J canisters of gas were stolen by demonstrators 1vho broke throu,gh. the !me of MPs. Pete Weingold, a fresh- man at C'nion, states he saw a soldier fire one camster and that another soldier was releasing gas frD>m his back tank,) I joined the demonstrators at the front line as we pushed agai!'lst the MPs. 1 felt a pity for them, those who had to maintai11 order with the least possible force against their owD. coun- trymen. Appar~ntly they felt the same, for the troop.::; were far kinder than the US marshall who would swing a club quite freely a11d fre- quently. Squares On the lower level the MPs had formed a holloll\ square, no om se('ms to understand tile purpose ·~f this maneuver. lVIany people wanted to crush this square and the only logic in the MPs standing there would be to incite us to move against them. They were not blocking the now of men nor were they guard.in~ any sacred ground. I again walked up to the uppe-r level by going around the troops .a.nd up the slope close to the Pentagon. For some reason the troops were not blocking this entrance, although the line below was intended to hlock access to a11 those who could come up this way jllst as easily. By now the upper level had been closed off on the far side by a large mass of troops, perhaps 1,00() who were parading on the front mall. Our people were sitting at the feet of the troopers, who would inch forw·ard in an attempt to get the demonstrators out of the area as peacefully as pos- sible. Leaving this area I wa11ced down to the police li:p.e to ask the :YIPs whether vve would be allowed back if we left. He seemed to mis- understand my question and wanted to throw me out violently. After a few questions I broke away from him and said I would walk down peace- ably. Not understanding he grabbed my arm and moved me down the hill. Sought Help At this time it was about 7:30 and I left the area for downtown Wash- ington. Walking through the parking lot where the buses were parked I heard the speakers calling for all kinds of help. They were calling. for hel-p in the form of any food we had, any blankets we could get to the demoastrators who were now shut off behind police lines aad help for those who needed rides into town to get food, etc. Walking up Twenty-Third Street, Washington looked like an armed camp. Every federal building had troops ()r police inside and Wash· ington police stood at ev€ry inter- section and street corner. At one building there were between 30 and 40 troops in the lobby. It was de- scribed as a \minor gov't office l:luild- ing\ by a gHard outside. About 9:30 I left for the Pentagon again. Military police had blocked all noads to the pentagon and we were forced to park at the Arlington Na· tional Cemetary, People from my car and others arrived with blankets, food and water for the demonstrators. When I arived at the Pentagon for the second time that day, it looked like a besieged fortress. Troops, now armed with rifles rather than billy clubs surrounded the .building as far as I could see. In front of the central mall, troops were lined in large mass· cs, so many that their total could not be estimated, perhaps 2;000 infront of this small area, another 1,000 strung along the building and outside and large numbers inside the building. All- night troops were rotated in and out of the building. . Ar.my S 'ocked The army had cut ()ff the area di- rectly to the left of the mall in front of the main entrance and suppHes and people could only get in by seal· ing a 15 foot v..all by rope. In this area were appro:Kimately five or six hundred people who were camping out. Demonstrators had lined up solid- ly in rows three deep against the troopers to prevent them from iHch· Experts Discuss Nuclear Threat \Nuclear Proliferation-Threat or Stab111zer\ wul be the suJJJect of a pan.el discussiOn to be hetd m the ::iocial Sciences lecture hall (Room lt:i) on Thursday, November 2, l::,ti'l, at 8:00 p.m. Sponsored by the Mohawk Associa· tion ot ~ctenttsts and Eng1neers, the discussion wul bring together several distriigu~shed men we11 acquaimed w1th the problem. The panel mem· bers wlll mcmde: Dr. Henry Hurw1tz, Jr., manager of the Nuc1eomcs ana Radiat10n Branch of General EJec· tr1c's General Physics Laboratory; lVlr. .vlax ::,mger, president of Hudson fn· stitute, a pnvate organization domg spectauzed research tor mdustry and government; and Gottfried. W. l~loser, currently invotved m the disarmament negot1at10ns m the U.N. and Geneva, trom the Arms Control and Disarma- ment Agency of the U .::i. Department of ::itate. The moderator of the panel w1ll be Dr. Edward A. Fox, professor of Mechanics at Rensselaer Polytech· nic Institute. The purpose of the me~ting is to present up-to-date, factual informa- tion on the status of nuclear pro- liferation in the world, various as- pects of modern nuclear warfare and the arms control etforts now under' way. Panel members were selected not only for their knowl~dg~ of ~he subject but also for their divergmg opinions over these matters. The pro- gram could involve a good deal of controversy. H-Bornb Man Dr. Hurwitz, who is presently in charge of G.E.'s research of ~ontrolled fusion power, has been an mstructor in physics at Cornell, a member of Dr. Edward Teller's staff working on hydrogen bomb problems at Los Ala· mos and a research scientist at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory where he participated in the develop· ment of nuclear reactors for naval application. Mr. Singer, a Harvard-trained law- yer has been employed by the RAND Co~poration and has served as general counsel for the Atomic Energy Re· search Association. He has also been a member of the Seminar on Arms Control sponsored by the Am.erican Academy of Arts and Scien~es in .1~60 at Cambridge, Mass. In h1s. poSitJOn as president of Hudson Institute and member of its board of trustees, Mr. Singer works with Herman Kahil;, ,in- ternationally famed mathematician and author whose writings and speech- es on thermonuclear war and arma- ments have made him a highly con- troversial figure. Gottfried Moser, who joined the Arms Ce>ntrol and Disarmament Agency in 196,4, is prese!lt~y the senior staff assistant to Wilham C. Foster the director of the agency. Mr. M~ser's previous expe.rience ~as been with the Foreign Service as V1ce· Consul and Consul in Iran and lVIo· rocco. He has also been connected With the Bureau of Intelligence Re- search In W as.hmgton. Dr. Fox, a long time member of M.A,::;.E., receivea his degrees from Harvard and Columb1a. He served as a naval offlcer m World War II and Is presently a professor of mechanics at R.P.I. Science and Society The Mohawk Association of Scien· tists and Engmeers is the Capital 01strict Chapter of the Federatwn of American bClentists. Founded after the war, this orgamzation is concern- ed w1th tne re1atwnsh1p of science to society. Problems such as pollu· tion, tecnnical aid, and disarmament are discussed in meetings held throughout the year. The group also pubusnes the lSulletin of American :Scientists. Officers of NI.A.S.E. for the year 11:167-68 include two men from the Umon College faculty: Dr. Kevork V . .r-Jahabec::lian, Secretary; and Dr. V. Ennis Pllcher, Treasurer. There will be no admission charge to the discussion and refreshments will be served. A question and answer period will follow the formal presen· tation. One of the reasons for holding this meeting on campus is the anti- cipatiOn of a good student turnout. lt is hoped that similar programs can be held at the college in the future. Tax Committee Contin11ed from Page 1 tions to bring speakers and other groups to the campus as is being done by the lnternational Relations Club. Funds are allocated on the basis of proposed activities. Because the Glee Club has expanded its oper- ations by planning t() sing with Vas- sar and Wellesley, it has received an increase this year. Funds for WRUC have been reduced because the radio station bas become almost self SUP· porting. The Committee spends al- most all of its money leaving only a small amount in reserve to help sup- plement the costs of a big party weekend. Another issue before the Committee is what Rubenstein calls the \capital goods problem.\ In past years the Committee has given funds for the purchase of new equipment for Nott Memorial Theater and the Skiing Club. It is now trying to sell this equipment back to the college in or- der to provide funds for the other functions. Because of a rise in the cost of living and the formation of new stu· dent activities Rubenstein does £or- see an increase in the amount of funds needed by the Committee with- in the next few years. It is not known how soon this new increase may become effective, but it will be ing forward against the protestors. In the mall area directly in front of the Pentagon troops had moved a considerable distance forward against the demonstrators. A defense dept. official stated the area defined by the permit was marked by . a row of troops and a manila line. He said the demonstrator had pushed forward in the area to the left and were being arrested if they took any action other than sitting at the troopers feet. Troopers would inch forward and fill in any empty spots. Girls Slugged Demonstrators sitting against the troops claim to have been beaten and kicked by tl'oops. Many men and girls were slugged by troops and US tv.larshalls even after they went limp and were being dragged away to wait- ing vans. These demonstrators were arrested on the charge of violating the terms of the permit. Inside the area the MPs had sealed off, I wandered around and talked to various people who were demon- strating, sitting in or warming them- selves by fires. One was a professor of medicine from Mt. Sinai and an- ~- ~ ther was a law student at Fordham. tie said he was so opposed to the war he would risk arrest and possible jeopard¥ of his entire ,career to ex· ~rcss this opposition. From inside this area the Pentagon looked Hke an armed 'camp. Hundreds I)· r Nov• The--.~ ~ society., Novenrbc They Cure It' ~ Men,\. i: Swan So of soldiers stood guard outside the area as those demonstrators inside huddled around fires with blankets >lt' draped around them .for warmth. Other$ .packed in before the troops to keep warm and keep hack the troops. Water and food were being passed up and down via a .series of ropes that had been used by the police to keep In 196 staged ' >l ' f deG held• ! the lines in order. takes pl an atmm The one Anxious Sarge I his bam fl·~ which tt walk in it is bas Outside this area, on the lewer mall, a sergeant was pacing up and down before his troops as an on· ,, c looker carried on a running dialogue (monologue?) with him. He seemed more anxious to keep his troops from hearing than in actually discussing. He ·• 1 < was angry but the troops listened and more than one nodded his head / in silent agreement. \excrem' C()urt~ p!aylets, bureauc1 Continued on Page 4 'oJ . . \ person : trolley c transfer second t Niemeyer's Teaching Ability !f H-onored With Lamont Chair ~ addresse can't she personal can't ha citiz-en l 1 r of privae indecent the man a susper play at 1 By NEIL 8. KRAMER Professor Carl Niemeyer, chairman of the English Department, was in- stalled to the Thomas Lamont Pro- fessorship in Ancient and Modern Literature Monday evening in the Social Sciences building. Receiving the honor because of his outstanding teaching ability and scholarly activ· ities, Niemeyer delivered an address entitled \Masks of a Hero.\ In his speech Niemeyer discussed the concept of the hero as presented in literature from Homer to Joyce. He defined the hero, \whether liter- ary or popular, (as) he who we endow with our deepest, often unexamined, presumptions about the nature of 1nan.\ Prof. Carl A. Niemeyer Reactions. • • Continued ft•om Page 1 Craig said, however, that he was ap· prehensive as to the outcome of the program as it was proposed. Joseph B. Board, Jr., chairman of the Political Science Department, said he would like to see a wide variety of options offered the seniors in Comp. Ed. As examples, he mentioned an internship in Washington, a summer and a term abroad working on a pr()ject, working with the American Friends Service somewhere in the world, all of which might be done in lieu of a senior thesis. He pointed out that because the interests of stu· dents are so diverse, \ideally we should try to fit the experience to the interest of the student, and de· ve lop a program for not just one- half or one third, but for all of the students involved.\ After delineating the development ~ of the hero, the English Department Chairman concluded that, \the folk hero of today is o.f obscure origin. He is an achiever but in our dynamic society, no one man can long effect ,. society and is soon forgotten . . . To- day's folk heroes do not remain heroes for long 'because they do not have the stamina to maintain their • stature in today's dynamic world.\ [ The Grecian concept of the hero, Niemeyer stated, was suitable to their ~ • !!! homogeneous, slowly-changing society. \ I They could conceive of an AchiHes who was nearly invincible, a great warrior,. related to the gods. But the impermanence of modern man means ' that twentieth century heroes cannot develop as more than human. Succeds '6/odgett il Niemeyer officially assumed the Lamont Chair July lst. By action of 1 the Trustees he will hold the title ;~. r without term. The Illinois native suc- ceeds the distinguished American scholar Harold Blodgett, who held the Professorship from 194ll to 1965. , The installee, whose term as head of the English Department begun in 1 1963, will end at the beginning of the , , winter term, 1968, received his bach- elors and masters degrees from the University of Kansas and another masters and the Ph. D. from Harvard. Following wartime service in the ·'· army, Niemeyer joined the Union faculty in 1946. He was Union's ex· change professor . at St. Andrews in 1951-ti2 and taught the first Ameri· t : , can Literature course in the Scottish university. Two years later he was named a full professor. SENIORS ATTEND · ,' CONFBRENCE \'- Last Thursday Union Seniors jour- • neyed to the New York City College · to attend the two day meeting of the National Committee of the American Society of Civil Engineering. At the meeting the students, prim- arily Civil Engineering majors, had the choice of hearing any one of several lectures or discussions by prominent constructionists or consult- ants. Buildings Studied Funni, play wh with a qua des. Cast i Glanzroc shutz as C. McGc and Har Cast i1 are: Mi Bridge, Mike Ri Glanzroc Hiley as Don Hot In ~ wether 1 with De E't ( Not o point de departm out defi: demic .t: supplem and sh01 Union m selection Mindf1 the aim a respo1 fleet ace cated by tics will th<:! eval guide to his cour, are disce The r, will be uary an< during mesters. Kra1 NeilS to Mana ensis ac• made tc Editorin- Krame cordiensi In addition, new structures in New York were open to the scrutiny of the students. Of particular interest was one in Madison Square Garden J because of its suspension design. Each student financed his travel and accommodations. ~ of his f1 America1 viously a member assistant Union.\ DEWITT'S The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP THE PEANUT STORE 135 ERIE BOU LEYARD Boulevard Bowl PLJ! JA Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages ·.l 118 - 1?0 JAY ST.REET 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER A. I the Sign of the Red Neon .Pipe TUES. thrll SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS' and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. 32 AMF Bowling Lan:es Open 8 A.M. to' 3 A.M. ·.-\' SNACK BAR ON PREMISES '· · · ~ ' ~:~:·

26, 1967 Thursday, October 2.6, 1967 ·.(' Montebanks Plan ,. r November Plays the war :possible to ex- Pentagon the rs inside The--.1\lountebanks, Union's drama ,. ·~ society ·will perform three plays on Novenrber 16, 17, and 18. blankets warmth. troops to b.e troops. passed up opes that to keep They are \The Law and How To Cure H,\ by Courteline; \The Blind r Men,\- by deGhelderode; and \The >1t ' Swan Song,\' by Chekhov. In 1963-64 seas0n, the Mountebanks staged \Pantaglaize best known of >) 1 c deGhelderodes plays. This year's play ! · takes place in medieval Flanders in an atmosphere of Heironymous Bosch. The one eyed King of robbers leads he I0wer g up and 11 1· ~ his band ort a pilgr·image to Rome which turns out to be a seven week walk in a circle. Written in the 30's, it is based on the nainter Breughel's \excremental vision.\ s an on- ,, c e seemed from He , 1 1 r listened / . his head Three Playlets 4 Courtelines play, consisting of three p!aylets, emphasizes the rigidity of bureaucrcacy. In the first playlet a person strives to be admitted on a '.J .. \ trolley car, but is rejected because his lity ~.· ~ epartment \the folk re origin. r dynamic . effect \ ..• To- remain ey do not tain their • world.\ the hero, transfer is torn. A man tr.ies in the second to pick up a registered letter addressed to him, but because he can't show proper identification to his personal friend the post officer, he can't have it. In the last, a private citi:ren sues the public for invasion IC of privacy and the public sues him for indecent exposure. Both arise when the man's bare hindend is seen from a suspended moving walkway on dis- play at the Paris Exposition of 1883. ~ Funniest and longest is Chekhov's play which exposes through dialogue with a janitor an old actor's inade- quacies. Stvdents Cast le to their ,).. ·. ~ society. I Cast in the Blind Men are: Steve Glanzrock as Dewitte, Gerald Liep- shutz as Destrop (Gallows Bird), Colin C. McGowan as Den Os (Bullocks), and Harry Miller as Lamprido. Ach1Hes a great Cast in the Law and How to Cure It are: Michael A. Halperson as La- But the means • cannot \ Bridge, Don House as the Conductor, Mike Riley as the Postal Clerk, Steve Glanzrock as the Prosecutor, Mike Hiley as the Clerk of the Court, and Don House as the .Judge. the action of I the title ;':,. ::- sue- American In Swan Song, William Meri- wether will return to the stage along with Dean Hoffman. held the 1965. as head begun in , ~ E'Valuation of the ~ 1 his bach- from the another Harvard. e in the Union ex- ndrews in Ameri- , ' Scottish he was • « jour- • College · of the American prim- ajors, had one of by or consult- in New crutiny of Continued from Page 1 Not only will this evaluation pin- point .defects in certain courses or departments, but it will also bring out definite strong points in the aca- demic program. It will serve as a supplement to the Academic Register and should become invaluable to the Union undergraduate in future course selection. Mindful of faculty sensitivity, it is the aim of those involved to exhibit a responsible fairness that will re- flect accurately those opinions indi- cated by the student body. All statis- tics will be made public. Hopefully, the evaluation will serve as a useful guide to each professor in replanning his course-..:pr~sentation if deficiences are discoveted. The results of the fall evaluation will be available some time in Jan- uary and similar polls will be taken during both of the remaining tri- mesters. Kramer Promoted Neil S. Kramer has been promoted to Managing Editor of the Concordi- ensis according to an announcement made today by Joseph Mann, Jr., Editorin-Chief. interest J Garden his own Kramer has worked on the Con- cordiensis staff since the beginning « of his freshman year. A sophomore American Studies major he was pre- viously assistant managing editor and member of the news staff. He is also assistant manager of the \Union Union.\ RELAX! 3 Campus Announcements College Receives Alaskan Medal The All College Council will meet tonight, October 26, at 8:00 p.m. in Hale House Student Lounge. The meeting is open to the college com- munity. Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa will hold its fall dinner meeting at the R.P.I. Student Union ot:~ Saturday, November 4. Dr, Henry Galant win be the speaker. Inter- ested members of Phi Beta Kappa should contact Douglas Washburn, Sec. West Hall 419, R.P.I., Troy, New York 12181. The North College HotEl will be open Hon:ecoming and Fall Weekends --October 27, 28 and November 18, 18 respectively. A charge of $5.00 will be charged to cover the cost of lin.en and the expense for a social h0stess. Union men are reminded that they must provide a :pillow and blanket for their date. The mecca for sign-up is Student Activities Office. . Freshman Election Schedule Thurs. Oct. 19--Petitions available in Student Activities for Class Officer candidates and Student Council can- didates. Wed., Nov. 1-Meeting ·Of aH prospec- tive freshman candidates Hale House lounge, 7:30 p.m. Allen Nevins, scheduled to speak here at an upcoming Con- vocation, will not be able to appear because of illness To replace this Convocation, the Fredonia Percussion Ensem- ble will perform on Nov. 8 at 8:30 p.m., in Memorial Chapel. The film scheduled for Friday night, KEY LARGO, has been cancelled because of the incom- petence of the last group that used the film, a group which managed to damage the mer- chandise so that we cannot use it. THE MALTESE FALCON is slated to be shown on December 1st to assuage any ill-feeling. 13EI\Iin Ot:t.-;t V.-f;~t;nls Conct; .. t As a part of its first American tour, the Berlin Philharmonic Octet ap- peared at Union College's Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. Wenesday, Oct. 25. The concert was the first of a series this season sponsored by the Sche- nectady Museum and Union College The Octet is made up of members of the famous Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, which has made several suc- cessful tours of the United States. Many years ago, ~he la~e music:al director of the Berlm Phllharmomc, Wilhelm Furtwaengler, thought that this ensemble was well qualified to perpetuate the tradition of the famous orchestra. The Octet has since per- formed throughout Europe with fre- quent appearances at the music festi· '1-a:s in Lucerne, Edinburgh and Salz- burg. 1he Octet has aiso presented con- certs in Japan, Central and South America and is currently appearing. on a lin.ited tour in the United States. Fri., Nov. 3-Petitions due for Fresh- man C'ass Offices. Tues., Nov. 7~Primary for Class Of- fices: President, yice-President, Secretary and Trea~rer. Wed., Nov. 8--Final election for Class Offices. Mon., Nov. 13-Petitions due for Stu- dent Council seats. Tues., Nov. 14-Primary for Council seats (5). Wed., Nov. 15-Final election for Student Council seats. •·Disarmament and the UN\ will be the subject of a talk by David Lenef- sky tonight in Hale House at 7:30. He is one of a group of speakers to be brought to the tampus this year by the International Relations Club. Lenefsky, a 1954 graduate of the Uaiversity of Connecticut, studied In- ternational Relations at Columbia University, and obtained an L.L.B de- gree from New York University School of Law. A member of the New York Bar Association specializing in Inter- national Law, he received a Master of Laws degree in 1964 and is presently working for a Doctor of Jurisprudence degree. Lenefsky has authored several arti- cles on international affairs. The most recent one will appear in the 1966 volume of the Indian Yearbook of International Affairs. At present he is a Research Assist- ant for Policy Studies Program, UNO- USA. In this capacity, Mr. Lenefsky was involved in the work of the re- cent National Policy Panel dealing with United States policy t<Jwards China and the United Nations. On Sunday, November 5th, the Un· ion Colle!!e Glee Club will present a concert with Simmons College in Bos- ton. Mass. The performance is at 3:30 P.M, and will be held at Alum- nae Hall, in Boston. The joint choir will perform a total of five numbers. These are Bach's Motet #6 entitled \Lobet den Herr!?-,\ the Chichester Psalms by Bernstem, two reincarnations by Samuel Barber entitled \Anthony O'Daly\ and \Mary Hynes\ and a Cantata by Buztehude entitl~d \Command Thine Angel that He Corrie.\ The same program will be nre- sented the following week when Sim- mons comes here for a crncert on Sat- urday, November 11th. This will be held in Memorial Chapel at 8:15 in the evening. This weekend Union students and alumni will participate in annual HomPeoming festivities Several ac- tivities have bePn scheduled for alum- ni. At 6:00 Friday, those alumni and their faiT'ilies who have made reser- ntions will be the guestc; of the Alum- ni Cnuncil for dinner at H'l 1 P Hnusf'. At 7:30 in the Old Chapel, Football Coach George Flood will lead a \Chalk Talk\ session. Saturday morn- in~ will start with. an A<!mission.s Workshop in the Soc.Ial Studies_ Au~l- Program torium at 8:00. President Martin w1l! a[ve his annual address to the alumm First on the Octet's program at its ;t 11:00, also in the Social Science local concert was four movements Auditorium. of Grahms' \Quintet for Clarinet, Two erones will no .longer be required at parties in living units which exte•1d beyc:md 8:00 p.m. A similar resolution was recently passed by the Inter- Fraternity CounciL A · clause in the resolution caUing for the abolition of the chaperone requirement when women are housed in a living unit was dropped from the resolution by both groups. The resolution win Hext to the ACC for consideration. In other business, the council ap- proved the charter of the newly form- ed Student Council of the Arts. The organization, wh<Jse purpose is to en- courage more interest in the Arts on campus, consists of the heads of the various Student Publications, and the Film Workshop, the Photography Club, and the Moving Finger. Arnold Bittleman, Artist in Residence, will >;erve as the groups advisor. The Student Tax Committee is al- locating about $500. per term for the Council to use in bringing Art to the campus. Also at the meeting, a Representa- tive of the Schenectady Chapter of the Red Cross came \to plead f<Jr help\. Calling the recent blood drive \a dismal failure\ he pointed out that of the 1450 students on campus, only 78 pints of blood were received from students. He said that another drive is planned for .the campus on Nov. 9, and urged that anyone willing to give blood, and under twenty-one years of age should have their par- eNts sign a consent slip, which will be sent to the parents, so that they might donate on Nov. 9. Law Interviews 1) Professor Neil Bernstein, Wash· ington University Law School !St. Louis), 9:00-12:00, Novem- ber 3, Political Science Dept. Office in SS Building. 2) Dean Latty, Duke University Law School, November 8, 2:00· 4:00, Political Science Dept. of- fice in SS Building. 3) Professor Howard Greenburger, New York University Law School Nov. 3, 1-3 p.m. Political Science office in SS Building. Exactly 100 y~ars, to the minute, after the Alaska Purchase agreement was signed, Union College received a commemorat-ive medallion for the indirect part it played in the purchase. The man who engineered the pur- chase was gradtuted from Union in 1820. He was William H. Seward, sec- retary of state in <both the Lincoln and Andrew Johnson administrations, who obtained the 586j000 square miles of Alaskan territory from Russia for $7,200,000. The purchase became final at pre- cisely 6:30 p.m., Oct. 18, 1867. Dr. Harold C. Martin, Union College president, received the special medal from Colin C. McGowan of Juneau, Alaska, a meml>er of the freshman class at Union. '])he presentation was made at ceremon·ies in Union's Schaf- fer 'Library, wher-e the college's por- trait of SewarQ. now hangs. Seward's Descendant Also on hand .at the presentation was Dr. Fred Seward, a member of Union's Class of 1926 and a great- grandnephew of the former secretary of state, and Mrs. Jean Uppman of New York City, a great-great-grand- daughter of W. E. Seward. Her hus- band, Theodore Uppman, is a bari- tone at the New York Metropolitan Opera Company. McGowan first learned of Union's part in the Alaska Purchase when he was a student at Juneau-Douglas High School in Juneau, Alaska. Jonathan R. Pearson III, admissions director at the college, mentioned the informa- tion to McGowan in correspondence. The high school student, having been accepted at Union, approached the Alaska Centennial Commission to ask if Union College might be recog- nized for its service to our northern- most state. Big Stake The president <lf the commission re- plied favorably and designated Mc- Gowan as his official representative. The medallion has on one side Se- ward's profile and on the other the official Centennial seal. Union College's stake in the devel- opment of Alaska does not stop with Seward. An 1855 graduate of the col- lege, the Rev. Dr. Sheldon Jackson, was called the \Apostle of Alaska.\ Rev. Jackson, a Presbyterian minis- ter, is credited with bringing civiliza- tion to that territory. He introduced both public schools and reindeer to Alaska. A college in that state bears his name. Un;on students give blood to Red Cross during perio-ds of respite from sweating blood over their studies. Catholic \Vista\ Seeks Union Volunteers Violins and Cello, in B Minor, Opus At 1:30 tne annual Homecomii_Ig 115.\ Following intermission, the game against Hobart this year, Will Recruiters from the Extension So- ceive an intensive six-week training Octet played six movements of begin at Ale:ll;ander Field. _l}fter the ciety Volunteer movement of the course in all aspects of their work as Schubert's \Octet in F Major, Opus game .the various fratermhes have Catholic Church will visit the campus well as \\practice\ work in the field 116.\ planne'd aJumni parti~s which are on Monday, October 30. They will prior to going t() their assignments. closed to freshme,n until 8:00. There meet with interested students in Hale They are paid $50() a month and pro- In Individual performance tickets will also be a cocktail party for fresh· Hrme at 7:30 P.M. vided with suitallle living accommo- for the concert may be purchased at men and independents, from 4:30 to The Extension Society Volunteer dations, an allowance for food, plus the door. Adult prices are $2.50 and 6:30 ih Fo-*Jiall. movement, now in its seventh year, health and life insurance and neces- student tickets are $1. Series Tickets ·11<o<.· has provided more than 1400 young · sary travel expenses. are still available, at $9 and $2.50, re- people for one to two years of field At the meeting here, anyone inter- spectively. work virtually throughout the nation. ested in the Volunteer movement will Members Of t he Octet whQ will per- ', . . The work encompasses areas of effort have an opportunity to hear the com- such as aides in parishes, in troJJled plete story of th\' pr·ogram what the form are Alfred Malecek, violin; Ru- Student Count~ and needy inner city neighborhoods, t'ndi'vi'duals do t'n\' the field' and can dolf Hartmann, violin; Ulrich Fritze, · , Vl ._ola,· Heinrich MaJ'owska, cello; Rain- At a meeting last night, the Stu- as Newman centerhyrohrkehrs, teaching get answers to any question that they b t dent Council passed a 'resolution. call- in both grade and Ig sc ool, and as may have about the Volunteer effort. S er Zheppelrit~, tdouHble bLasF kHerbea~ ing on the All-College Counctl to nurses. ' · Those eligible must be at least 21 tae r c anne ; ans · eum e, · · 1 1 th t h Those wbo J' oin the volunteers re- years of age and have no dependents. soon, ~nd Gerd Se~if~e~rt~,~h~o~r~n~--------~c~h~a~n~ge~t~h~e~~so~c~ta~ 7 ru~e=s=s=o~==a==c==a==p-==========~~~==================~~============================= ~--~~~~~~~ ~ I RITZ REST AU RANT ~· I. PLAY BILLIARDS AT JAY BILLIARD It_ LOUNGE 1725 Van Vrcmken Avenue Featuring Union Pharmacy : · · Schenectady 600 UNION STREET FREE DELIVERY Printing Co., Inc. 167 Jay Street Special Price For College Students Ladies Free · Accompanied by Gentleman HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties . · Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. - I~ 502 Broadway 377-8838 ,. COJ,OGNlES & AFTERSHAVE LOTIOXS FR 4-3605 .fade East - English Leather - Erut Old Spice - Canoe - That .ilfan B,:rj.ti8h St!'rling - Ha.1vaiiw11 Surf J em1 N a.te .i

4 Protest • • Continued from Page 2 Further down the line I stopped to examine !l unusual ri.fle. A rather belligerent and large man with quite short hair asked me to e:x:plain my feelings on the war. He was, he explained, a reporter for the United States Press {\an Army magazine,\ he said). Within two minutes I thought a fight would be inevitable. He was not a re- porter but a marine, off duty, and smelled strong- ly of beer. I argued with him, a girl next to me argued, a big hippie argued, we all argued. \I've been over there and I know what I'm fighting f0r. You're all chicken.\ We protested, \We're not chicken, we could avoid the draft quite easily. This girl certainly isn't chicken. Do you enjoy killing?\ This set off both him and us. \Yes I like killing, I've killed so many I couldn't even count them. When they run up to you with a grenade between their legs you have to kill them.\ \We have to kill them all, they're no good.\ On answer to a question) \I've killed women too, but not for carrying a gun.\ • \You may be able to out-talk me but you can't outfight me.\ He made a half-hearted attempt for the big hippie and was told, \Your freedom ends when you touch my shirt.\ \These men (the soldiers) know I'm on their side and I'll show you, I can cross this line and you can't.\ He attempted to step over the line but was pushed back by the MPs. One confused Marine now wanders about Washington trying to understand why the law should be the same for everyone. At the large mall directly in front of the Pentagon speakers were calling for demonstrators to sit directly at the feet of the troops to prevent them from inching forward and arresting us. The crowd started to sing \Soldiei\s are our brothers\ to the tune of \We Shall Overcome\ after the speakers had given forth with their oratory powers that the soldiers are not to blame, but rather those wbo give th€ orders. (Unconfirmed rumors arCJ tbat two troopers defected to the demonsbators. Karen Wall, a spokesman for the National' Mobilization Com- mittee, said one MP had tllrow n down his helmet, gun, gas mask and other equipment. Another MP was reported to have thro\'n down his helmet and gun. One supposedly escaped ,in the crowd, but the other was arrested. Tile Pentagon denies this as a \rumor with no ba::sis in fact.\ One army private from Fort Dix: was arrested and when his identity was disc<>vered, turned overt<> military authorities for disci.pHne. JI!I<m:y other of the MPs were reported to have j<>ined the demonstrators after going off duty.) Sid Peck, a leader of the National Mobilization Committee to end the war called for the leader of the troops in order to nCJgotiate with him. \Who can we taUt t0:r ,\ he cailed. \Is this not the height of irresponsiJHlity for there to :be no commander for these troops. Surely someone had called on these troops to rnal\e arrests and had caused all this unnecessary bl<lodshed.\ Repeated shouts of \We want Van Cline,\ the official who si~ned the permit f()r the demonstration, went up after Peck stopped speaking. \These are irresponsib\!e actions against ,peace- ful citizens protesting against what they consider an immoral and unjust Vlar. 'There has been no revocation of our ,perm!.t. 'Vhy are our people being beaten and arrested with no provocation. Why should they be give:n n() chance to respond to arrest. We demand to see a generaL\ While Peck was speaking, the troops held the line, either by ordter or by 'C()mmon assent with his words. As Peck spoke truops poured out of the Pentagon onto the mall area held ~by the government. The rEport caine through that Mac- Namara had arrived at tlle Pentagon to take personal charge of activities. We waited 45 min- utes fJr an answer as to ·wh() was in charge and Peck caned on us to wait an()ther 45 minutes for an answer. The troops were massed at least 5 or 6 columns deep and there were reinforcements of more than 500 massed on tM plaza itself. Pentagon spokes- men refused to comment on the total number of troops inside the Pentagon. · We sat on the front steps of the Pentagon, the world's largest office building and center of power of the world's greatest military power, (which is unable to subdue the determined re- sistance of an illiterate people), and waited for an answer. We waited for the defenders of the freedom of the United States to answer who was in charge of the troops, who had ordered them to arrest us, and on what grounds. We waited, no one had told us to leave, no one had given us any reason to believe the trops would arrest us. We waited and the patient troops waited. Meanwhile demonstraters came up to us to hand out c:mdy, gum, dgarettes by the carton, hot pizza and hamburgers. Orange drink and milk was passed back and we sat and talked of love and life and the good .things in that life. One girl I talked to wondered where her husband was. She had been sitting with him against the line of MPs and thought he had been arrested. We talked of her life on a farm in Vermont. She had a group in Vermont that was trying to \get back to Nature\ in a group effort. All their efforts were to be devoted to the group good and each was to take from the group what he or sbe felt was needed. We sat and talked and the speakers encouraged u'i. Mr. Altman, described as a teacher from the State University of New York, stood up and asked to be arrested. He wanted to be arrested on the same charges tbat every other man had been arrested on. Peck, on the speakers platform, called for the troops to open up to permit him to pass the line and therefore be subject to arrest. The troops refused to move and Altman said that the troops employed belong nqt to them and faced them. Peck .said, \It was a powerful Thursday, October 26, 1967 thing wl:len two troops came over to us. It shows they are for us and are for America.\ The MPs stood guard throughout the night and cont.nued to inch ferward as demonstrators moved and shifted in their sleep. The Tine, only ten feet from n:e when I went to sleep; was only five feet frGm me when I awoke. The troopers had h'lwever n::.oved back one Hne of troops that had cut off the left mall entirelr before the Pentagon and we could walk freely m this area. Throu,;hout the morning the MPs continued to in.h forw:1rd into the areas. held by demon- st ·at )rs. I left the demonstration area about 6:30 and returned about 9:00. At this time the MPs had moved a line of troops through the left mall area and had occupied the entire mall. Water bottles and thermoses that had been used during the night were being thrown down onto the steps be:ow by MPs as we passed from the upper matl. As I hilt for the last time a young girl was announcing to the .troops that there were one hundred and thirty of us sitting against them and sixty more below. The press had reported this as roughly 100. Perhaps this march did not accomplish .any- thing at aU. Maybe it Grrly shewed Americans are willing to stand up and say no to unnecessary, unjustified killing. If America's Nuremberg ever comes we can say we said \Hell No, we won't go.\ More than anything else this protest and the resulting press coverage showed the extreme distortion by simple ommision that takes place in our nation's greatest papers. The .power of t!1e Pentagon to distort or supress news is also beyond comprehension. Perhaps by giving the reader a c.earer 1 view of the happening in Wash- ingbn on Octo.ber 21-22 he will be able to better un ierstand the peace movement in the United St'ltes today and its relationship to the establish- ment. Protest Groups At Union By DAVID FILMAN \There is no God but otu God-and He is dead.\-Von Hoenckel Upon arriving at Union College, nestled in the heart of the Mohawk Vale, the cas- ual visitor is first struck by the complete and perfect quietude of the campus. First impressions are sometimes misleading, but in this case, they are not. The visitor was right. Union is dead. From the standpoint of liberal politics, visiting a college campus is usually a re- freshing experience. Before passing through the main gate, one generally encounters members of an anti-war group, an anti-war- in-Vietnam group, a civil rights group, a Black Power group, and a hate group, to mention a few. At this point, the visitor participates in the quaint custom of being stabbed with a button and having one or more leaflets thrust in his face. Nothing Happens Thankfully, though, nothing like this hap- pens at Union. As it was mentioned earlier, Union is dead. Careful inquiry will reveal, however, that Union does, in fact, have a protest group. Members of this group have staged playlets, painted sidewalks, and gotten beaten up at Mama Bianchi's Fine Italian & American Food military reviews. ln response, the ,college administration has largelr ignored the play- lets, painted over ,Uu sidewalks, and gen· erally tried to husll· 1.1p the last incident. This, of c<Jurse, :presents a problem for the protesters. It is :practically impossible to gain popular su. l>!>Ort for anything when there is no immediate and available scape- goat. At Berkeley, G·()V. Reagan played the villain, but at l!h1ion, the administration has not been nearl;:v as obliging. Civil Rights The one type of groap noticeably lacking at Union is the civil rights group. There are, of course, vel'\y fe..v civil rights groups left, most of them I:J.aving become non- violent militant Blac lt Power groups. If by some accident, su<:h a group did arise on the Union eampus. its primary target would have to be, e>f necessit;:v, the bookstore, for failing to seH' bars of Mr. McKissick's black soap. In the final analysis, though, there is very little that ti:J.e Union student is against po- litically. Many students dislike the peace- keeping operatioas in Vietnam; most are afraid of being draited after graduation; but very fevv actllally have the time, incli- nation, or desire to tlJI and do something about it. \Why you ask. \Because my child,\ I patiently reply, \the whole idea is useless.\ In 1967, the United States has finally reached the pennacle of autocratic success. The Administration is free to openly and admittedly violate the will of the people. And lie to them, besides. This has come to be known as the credibility gap, and one cannot help but wonder whether the Roman Empire had a similar credibility gap just before its illustrious decline and fall. For those who wonder just exactly what a credibility gap is, may I suggest that when the government officially denies what everyone already knows to be true, this creates a credibility gap. When tbe govern- ment manipulates news reports of the war to give our military efforts a good \image\, this creates a credibility gap. And when an official denial is made, only to be followed by a mumbled apology and an admission of guilt, the public considers itself lucky to have gotten the apology instead of the standard formula, \national interest\. Sorcery This, kiddies, is the first time that sorcery has been revived since the Middle Ages. All one has to do is recite the magic words, \national interest\ and that makes every- thing all better. So in this, the age of the credibility gap, Union students can be pardoned for their disenchantment, disinterest, or cynicism. If no one becomes involved with social pro- test any more - if there is an activity gap at Union College, then perhaps we should congratulate the man in the White House for making soCial protest a waste of time. White Father Students around the nation, distinguished professors, and concerned citizens have writ- ten to the president in protest of the war. Black ghettoes have erupted in violence year after year. Tired an embittered Amer- icans have wanted to know the truth- But the Great White Father in the White House has played it cool, and he'll probably get elected again next year. Meanwhile, back at Union College, neslled in the heart of the Mohawk Vale, life goes on. Union is dead. But perhaps it is en- couraging that when you arrk th£! Uniott staudent who he'd rather see in the vVhitc House than Lyndon Johnsou, lw'l1 t11ll you. Practically anybody. MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP Gershon's Open Sunday Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. V. FR 7-0510 Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing STARTING OCT. 31 All Haircuts to be done by Appointment from Tues. thru Fri. Appointments not neces- sary Sat. S(lndwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. FOUNTAIN SERVICE 1135 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room I One block from Brownell Gate Serving Vnion For 34 Years SILVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent food end Informal Atmosphere there's one place that does it! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Rings Siz~d • Engraving e Pearl & Bead Stringing Otl THE PREMISES ~T a...,- Jl:'WILRY U.BI. COMPANY 316 State Street. Schen~ctadY FR4-8219 Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Down Town Schenectady 515 UNION ST. 3'77·4010 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. Old Dutch Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A. WEEK A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 1617 Union St. Phone 374-5770 Are you Planning to behave yourself this weekend? If not ..• Let's Get Together OLEY'S LIQUOR STORE Cor. Eastern & Jackson Special Consideration for Union Men-377 -0350 II C .f. J• r. Tnursday, ·'liiUt•l~ ( Saturday, ' Varsit~ 1:30 p Tttesday, (] Counci ~ Hale E Wednesday Countr ( p.m., F t ( ( COJ!Cert, Slty Stl Memor Thursday, vnnber 2, i Banks Plays~ Chekh< ter's '1 office day, 0 p.m. Thursday, Rober entist, \The 11:30 ( Friday, N( cario,' Social Octavo ~ moria: Saturday, ball ' ( Alexa) ------ DA RE: 2049 CHAR-8~ s ( BEEFBUR w/Fr. Fri, ~ ----- ( 42 l'\' .-: Schen~ )· ' ( ;,.. I .. ' J ( p ( 1 Th<: ill By let word m~ microsco a rare ltJ find it in DictiOJzaJ you will mation a other de! Take t tton to illustrati< zones, yc initions • ings of l uses, sucl In sum, c know abc This c and used colleges it time ~ $5.95 for At Your B THEWO: ' (

1967 and ten had had to 6:30 MPs mall ·~· lhursday, October 2.6, 1967 UNION· CALENDAR Saturday, Oct. 28: Homecoming Varsity Football vs. Hobart, 1:30 p.m., Alexander Field. Tttesday, Oct. 31:. lnterfraternity Council Meeting, 7:00 p.m .. ~ Hale House Student Lounge. Wednesday, Nev. 1: Varsity Cross· Country vs. Hamilton, 3:00 ( p.m., Home. f Concert, Amsterdam Univer- sity String Quartet, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Thmsday, .Friday, Saturday, No- vember 2, 3, 4: 8:30p.m., Mounte- Banks present three one act Plays~ Genet's Deathwatch, Chekhov's Celebration, Pin- Tc 81J '8CIIL,. ON Tt\S SITE- NEW SPEc.TA(.ul-RI\ Do~M•ToA.Y ... 5 ~:·. •, SKID-MORE CALENIJAR 'l'lmrsday, October 26: Two Movies Sponsored by Department of Drama, \The War Game\ and \Chickamaugua 4:15, 7. 8:30 p.m., Little Theatre. (Admission 50c). Opening of Exhibition of Funk Pottery\ by Arneson, Manezlla and Rendich, 7:3(}-9:30 p.m., Hathorn Gallery. saturday, Ot•tobPI' ·~s: Concert given by Pittsburg University Glee Club and Skidmore CoHege .Chorus, 8 p,m., College Hall. Snnclay, October 20 : Open House sponsored by Department of Music, noon to :2 p.m., Therese Fllene Music :Sullding, New Gam pus. :\Iotu1ar. October 30 : Movie spon- ·sored by Social Service Organi- zation, Lord of tbe Flies,\ 7 and :9 p.m., Conuntuitlty Theatre. '( .Admission Charge) . Wed1us<1ay, Xm·ettiiJo('J' 1 : ·Lecture sponsored by Department of Modern Languages, \Recent Im- pressions of Peru and Ecuador,\ accompanied by·slldes, Dr. Sonja P. Karsen, Pro,fessor of Spanish 11.nd Chairman of Department of Modern Languages, Skidmore, '7 :30o p.m., Language Center. steps mali!.. ter's The Dumbwaiter. Box. _____ _ office open beginning Mon- was one and this .any- are go.\ the place er of r day, October 30, 1-5 and 7•9 p.m . Thursday, Nov. 2: Convocation, Robert Tucker, Political Sci- r entist, Princeton University, \The Russian Revolution,\ 11:30 a.m., Memorial ChapeL , Friday, Nov. 3: Film Series, \Ma- cario,\ 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., Social Science Building 016. also f. Octa:vo Concert, 8:00 p.m., Me- morial Chapel. the better St. ( .• \ I. Satllrday, Nov. 4: Freshman Foot- ball vs. R.IP.I., 2:00 p.m., Alexander Field. DARI TREET RESTAURANT 2049 Van Vranken Ave . CHAR-BROILED STEAK DINNER $1.50 BEEFBURGER PLATIER $1.10 w/Fr. Fries & Vegetable FR 7-4261 424 State Street ~'\' ~ Schenectady, New York ( ( ( TIME The longest word in the language? By letter count, the longest word may be pneumonoultra- microscopicsi/icovolcanoconiosis~ a rare lung disease. You won't find it in Webster's New World Dicti01mry, College Edition, But you will find more useful infor- mation about words than in any other desk dictionary. Take the word time, In addi- tion to its derivation and an illustration showing U.S. time zones, you'lL find 48 clear def- initions of the different mean- ings of time and 27 idiomatic uses, such as time of one's life. Ill sum, everything you want to know about time. This dictionary is approved and used by mC>re than 1000 colleges and universities. Isn't it time you owned one? Only $5.95 for 1760 pages; $6.95 thumb-indexed. At Yol!_r Bookstore THE WORLD PUBLISHING CO. · Clevelan4 and New York I sang my harp on the sun's deck Here at the water in the cool unblossomed year, And the light notes clung at my hair roots Like bird cries gathering. All the day's time leaned Into lengthening shadows And mo~ents ~1ung like fresh leaves On water. Wind crossed the pond Leaving stripes and crosses As though it ~olled and cast down, Cast down it~ shape for vision. Wisteria hung for lavender In a blossom of perfume, And on the :stone a toad Settled in s.unlight. Is this saturation of senses enough? Living together between a time frame, We creature and non-creature And I among them. Susan McCord @Contact Ma(:tazlne, 196& ... \ .. \ ··.- --- -· To communicate is the~~<>l'!inning o:f understanding @ &~!!l

6 Tl-tursday, 0 clober 26, 1967 Letters to the Editor P:ul.tlLb!a·ll l'llun~h.i~t~'s Uunng tht! scnoo1 )l'ea r by the student Body of Union College, !Sebettectauy, N. Y. :->ational Advert islr>g Represemative: X a tiona I Advertlslrng 'Service, Inc.. College Publlshet•:s IRept·esentntive. 4~0 Madi· son Ave .. N\. Y. C' l:.:dJtunal Ul!h..e. Uld l1)111. l'·nl,lll t!ul lese. Publh:atlon Offke. ~cltl:'U~L:ludy . Printing Cunwany, 00:.: B1un..J.vvuy. Entered ih the SchenedaJy Pusl Of- fh.:e a8 ::;econtl Class :\lull .\'lalleL Subscription l~c a COllY; $:1 u year t..lellvered UUJ.'\\'liPre 111 tht' -l'nil'Pd ~tatl·.s. ~q.;,;)()lt 110.-\Ril JOHEl'll A. )1.\:>:::-i •• 11:. ••> JOE!. ,RIIJJ.l:EXZAHL. 't;s .. :\I·: II, \· .J.;;:!l,\.\1 !-:It '~~~ lllt 'H.\·R :V :il.\. I.AGL'H ·,;~, Al.AN ~II·::GLEI\. 'G:• CLI-FF ~.\F.\?\10:: 'u!l. (·i.\ H'k. I·~ H'l·:\ l '·\'rl' · ti'• . :: 7i -!J.l3u ;~ lt;. ~ 1: I 1 ::7-1-7 41 s .. :J7 -1-\i ,11 s .. •. :17~-~J.';':W. :; ~I::· 7 \ ll l:,;dlltn·lll·ClLh•l .. Hu::~int:l:iS :\lunager ).lunng-ing Etl·itor .......... ~ews I~1litor High ~ut'iety li;ditot . ..... It-..~atu-r~s I~dito1 ~}101'1!-> };dit\11' .Jt:=\IOR no.uw lUchal'll 1 1 <1 tll'rsun, Jr. ··.u .. Dicit Da nle-1 • oO ................... . ~,t_ .... ,·e v~ \)x ·~o ....... . 1Pll ~111!11111 ''711 1\•tt>l' 'J'I~·utJ;1loln 'li!l lhll [ tlnr-Jwa11hH1] 'ri::-. ~\l .. Jlil4:_-\n :ht tt111.Ln ';u (.'a rl (;u lJ8.-~tnd • 711 La.n~· It tJ\bhlounl '·\;\u .\:o;Slll'iUlt' :-\t~\\'H J.;Uitol l >lmt.ogruphy Ell it or .\!'s't Peatun~s gditor .\·.s~~~t·iatl-'\ ~ports l·~ditul __ Natlunal ,\tln.•rti~ing ~'lanuger ... \Hs' t Business :\tanager ~uh~t·ription :\tanager L'i n·ulat ion ~lanagPr .IH~ll'ihution :\Ianaget 1 STAFF 1\lEllBERS X~~\\·~: Xl .. ·C\'l 1 Oonlon. Bill Bn-·inl<tn, Hal Hoss, ::-::tt~tlhen Glnnzruel<. l'J£ATlH\:S: SC'ott Sieglm·. sr•olt.'fS.: }lt'lliY F\t-·ill. Jay HlitZillHII C.\SDlllA'l'l•~ REI'ORTE!t S'.rA:FF X.J<;WI': oteve \\'all. Carl !Jietz. Howle :\!iller. Al Ga:rtner. John \Vllliams, I:'E.\\l'ol'l!Rg::;: !'au! .\ndt't•ws. ,\1 t'ohen, Hai'I'Y :\HJI ... r. Kent '\Viley I);\-\'~· I!Ha~. l'aul I•~arnhmn. Unfair Policy 'The housing situation at present is intolerable. Too long h~s. the housing policy been subject to change from year to year, a change which occurs at the expense of studen1t comfort. The All-College Council must face this problem very soon: it must, in all fairness to students, make a permanent provision for off-campus housing. 'l'ae concept of a strictly residential college is a limiting concept and an unpopular one. Some students at Union will al-....Nays function better in an off-campus environment, no mai:ter how desirable we make college housing. This is not a :matter of selfish behavior on the part of students. Hather, it is a question of individual differences which must be ta:k-ell. into consideration. Last year, abundant evidence was collected to show student dissatisfaction with enforced residentLal living. Both faculty and students voiced their desire b see an equitable housing plan instituted. Tile- image of a \residential college\ will not be destroy- ed if a small number of students live in the surrounding area.. ':rbere is little danger that a less restrictive policy would c-3use Union to become a commuting school, and even 'less evidence to show that a majority of the student body ....-vould want to live off-campus. The important con- siderathn here is the fact that upperclass students .should have [he option of living of:fl or on campus. Our problem of housing 1600 or more students should n()t be faced by a call for new dormitories. The present faciliti-€3 a.re quite adequate for housing the great majority of stude:nts. If the administration possesses a proper sense of vali:!e:s, it will place new dormitories low on the list of buildhg priorities. Structures such as a student union- if anything - are needed much more than dormitories. S.R.O.? To the Editor: I hope the expression of my frustration and l:>itterness will awaken the college commu- nity to the sad facf facing it at this moment: Union college is selling out its birthright of qual. ity in the market-place of com- petition for a future base solely on quantity. I came to Union enthraHed by the hope of a unique educational experience denied me even in high schooL Union's student facu!ty rati<m was 12:1 and her catalogue proudly stated that small classes and meaningful .personal relationships between students and faculty, both in- side and outside of class, could be had for those who wished. These images and all they evoke in the mind's of students were irrestible for me. For awhile, during my fresh· man year, the dream seemed real enough. Most of my classes were no larger than 20. Now, however, in my sophomore year, I've been rudely awakened .from my dream. I find that of the three classes I'm taking this term, two have approximately 50 students and the other one has about 35. Where is the opportunity for individual attention in a Camp, Ed. class of 50? How can there be meaningful discussion in a Political Science course of 50? Where is the opportunity for be- ing more than just another face in a Psych class of 35? Personal relationships and the type of in- timacy that often fosters learn- ing and initiative can't flourish under these mass conditions. Son~ething must be done now to remedy this situation before all the classes become this way. Perhavs more faculty members, wiser scheduling and cycling of courses, .and moJe sections per course are necessary. If Union does not move to correct this situation, she will be guilty ·of misrepresentation to prospec- tive students, and betraying her traditiOn of ex:ceUence. If I want to 'be just another face in .a massive lecture (such as those proposed for 2nd and 3rd year Com:p, Ed. courses), I don't need Union.. I can go twelve miles :tur,ther down the road to SUNY Albany, and there, I weuld remind the col- lege, mass education with all .its impersonality and stifling of initiative, can be bought for less than the price ·Of a ro01n at Un- ion. I WQU:Id hope my point is clear. Richard Patterson, Jr. Patterson Praised To the Editol.\: I commend Richard Patter. son, Jr. for the series of articles on the summer committee re· ports in. recent issues of Con· cordiensis. Frankly, I am amazed that he was able to cap- ture so much of the content and spirit of the report on graduate study of the \~1\.ugust Commit- tee' in his October 19th article. Mr. Patterson points up an apparent contradiction in there- port, and I V!ould like to ex- plain why this matter does not seem contradictory to me. The committee tried throughout this report to indicate that the un- dergraduate program was the primary concern of the college, and our pro:posals and recom- mentions are all directed toward actions which will strengthen that program. IIowever, if we direct our eff()l'ts toward de- veloping g r ad u ate programs For the finest in cameras and stereo -fidelity -featuring Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 SNOW JOBS BEGIN WITH A BOTTLE OF FINE WINE FROM OUR DOUWE AUKES' CELLAR - HEADQUARTERS FOR THE MAN WHO KNOWS WHAT HE WANTS PHIL ENGLEHARDT'S Checks Cashed 511 · Union Street FR 2-4788 Tile All-College Council, then, has evidence which f-~·~~~-;;;;.:-:;;-;;::- :-:- ;;;;;;~;;;;;:;;;:;-;;:-:--:-~-;;;-;,;;-;;;-~- ~~;;:;:;~~~~~~: demamds a revision of policy. Students do indeed want a change: a petition circulated last year, calling for a re- vision a:f the residential policy, was enthusiastically en- dors€(J. In the future, it is likely that housing shortages on carnpus will occur. If this is so, it is patently unfair to dematlid that students live on campus one year, off campus the ne:xt. Even if Union could house every student on the college grounds, it would be unfair to make such a demand, th.e optLon of off-campus living should exist. The small group 0of students who might choose to live off-campus would not cause considerable financial strain to the college. LU~CH Fl.l:rthermore, th€ idea of creating a sense of com- munit::Y by compelling all students to live on the college grounds is wholly unacceptable. The community ideal has been elll.ployed in the past in order to justify a residential policy which was motivated by fears of losing money. The idea.l its;elf is not bad, but one cannot hope to obtain this idea.l t'brough an inflexible, stifling and authoritarian policy. Sttttdents who are concerned with this problem should make tbeii' views lmo'\\'11 to All-College Council members immediately. Should the ACC fail to heed student needs, organized opposition must be used. A mass r.efusal to pay I'oom r~uts at registration would force the administration into a. less dictatorial position. The issue bas been avoided • f{)r tf).o long. It is urgent that action be taken now. If the ACC ca::nnot work out a complete prog1·a.m for off-campus living a1 this time, it must at 1.-ast talte a firm stand on the m::sim issue. ~EWEST 71.5 Albany Street Special every day from 6 A.M. to I I A.M. and Sun. from 9-1 I A.M. 2 eggs, home fries, toast, coffee-60¢ 2 eggs with ham, bacon, or sause~ge home fries, toast, coffee-$1 , 1 0 Servtng Schenectady Since 1921 OPEN 7 DAYS PER WEEK-6 A..M.. - 3 A.M. ~For three Generations.' Those Who Know. Have been .. ecommending - HERSHel MAURICE 8. WALTeR u3 Union Graduates in Graubari Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY so!e:Jy from the stance of a Sl.I[}· porting and auxiliary activ .. w, they wi:ll not be very good and will not make the contributl<Ons to the undergraduate programs which are sought, If the:y ar.e to make a proper contrih ution,. they must be valued eCI.u~lly. Va1ue is a qualitative teFm, nGt a quantitative one. Q.uantita· tively,. we ·expect graduate •wor1; to be a lesser .activity at Uaio11 for the foreseeable tutur~. 1Jn· less these programs are qualita· tively on a par with the under· graduate effort, the stattt.r~ of :Union will not be enhanced. 10'1 th.em. · Gardller M. Ketchum Sanctuary To the Editor : The Freshman Center, t()r tll.e \Union Union,\ as it is ·Often called, is one of the finest er:;tah lishments to be found ()ll tll.e College Grounds. I perso11.aEiy use the center dn Bronner }louse every evenmg. It is a won.der~ul place to stuay, l>emg mlleh qtu eter than the library. 'l'l!e :ligll.t· ing is excellent and the 'I>IIl:!aL d tables provide fine sup pc.r,t to,· books and paper. The College is in dire o~t eecd of a \real\ Student Center, f::!.V()r- ably located, that will be used hy all students. fraternit::y :men and independents alike. I pr<J. pose the immediate IJlan:rling and construction of such a center. HBward Mill-er Class of HID Language Lounge To the Editor: I am currentiy enrolled in. one of the French courses offered at l.Jn,on. ! am not yet at tl:t.e .. '30\ level and this means that I rntt.st come mto contact with ()U e of the mCJst useless and expensive undertakings upon which Union has ever venitued. And tiUs is the language lab. In appearance it seems h.a!'In· , less enough. Even in 'theory which is .ostensibly to give stu~ dents a working knowledge of a forei({n language, the lab is not ob~ectionable, In practice, 1t fails miserably. · ' A usual assignment might be to pronounce the words in and ask questions .a ·b out two ' pages in s o m e o b s c u r e French novel. The pronuncia- tien of one paragraph of seven lines takes as many minutes. , The monQtony is intolerable, the· educational value is negligible. This is manifested by the fact that we have usu.ally covered this passage thoroughly in class· '· bef<Jre the Iab. Then five ques· tions as asked which might takE 30 seconds to answer if you were :left to your owR devices , but which tak:e five minutes t~ • answer simply because you have to wait an appreciable amount of time for each .question to :be asked. And a. second listening .. of each tape is suggested. Much ~f this tim.e (up t~ ten minutes) IS wasted m the silence of wait· ing :for the tape to begin. Sleep ~ , is not infrequent. The Denouement to this trav· est:y is suplied when, after hav- 1 .._ ing listened to three of these · ~ protracted studies on the French language, you are examined and the dearth of the knowledge you have attained .is cogently demon· 'l strated. This examination con· sists d the pronunciation of one passage in French and five pert· inent questions. This, at least, • \' is slwrt. The reading of the par- agraph is done for almost a min. ute. Your fellow students sound like s o m an y worshippers 1 screaming supplications t€> the gods in attempt to exorcise a truly .prodigious number of sins with the restilt that you're un· ab ::.e to hear yourself think. ) 'The language lab can be use- ful, but as an hour exercise each week for a literature class, it is ..., worth~ess. Perhaps a c!ass cou:d be forrr.ed whose sole purpose would be to use the lab and de- velop good conversational tech- niques. The empty canisters ' can be extended to other things besides language. They are used for rr.usic, why not extend t:he lab~s capabilities? The possi- • bilities shou'd be explored. Name withheld by request. ---- -·-- ---· '1 Deansgate® Beefy Whipcord Sui't Deans,Ba.te searclled t:llree continents for this ~gged wool 'VIhipcord-it:'s tll.e :kind used in the,ol£t· hard· riding cavalry days:~ lt roakes a Qeat suit for traveling. It wears like .iron. 'J'ailo.recl in Deansgate's Bawless soft shoulder constructi:()tt.. In ntst tan. With vest· go.oo ., THU~SDAY & FRIDAY TILL NINE\· • • r- ) .-. • Thursday, Sie1 Ke~ ~ Union 928-918 in dropped t total pjnn - back as t tercoUegi: got its se day at thl , lanes. Sh net, 2747· Ken M: Erianne's net's fi·rsl Hine's 52 for Union In hi?\l ' Dutch c: Greg Elli: Team #7 sion of fi ( with help 584 gave over Tean ter out.of #l won ,. Tean1 ·#5 Jim Strati House 'ha1 Moffett's] points frc Charlie S1 Ill •

1967 of lab is practice, , be in and t two 1 CUre uncia- seven minutes. 1 able, the· the fact covered in class· •- ques- might er if you devices, ' to ha:ve amount on to he listening ' Much wait· Sleep ) • trav· hav- • ... of these · t French and you . 1 demon- con- of one five pert- at least, • ,... the par- a min- nts sound rshippers 1 to the a of sins ou're un- hink. be use- each it is ..., cou:d purpose band de- tech- canisters 1 things are used the possi- • request. • • ) .-. ft: 0.00 • Thursday, October 2{;, 1967 Siena Tops Keglers3-1 ~ Union College edged Siena 928-918 in the opening game but dropped the last two games and total pinnage to suffer a 3-1 set- - back as the Capital District In- tercollegiate Bowling League got its season under way Mon- day at the R.P.I. Student Union , lanes. Siena outpinned the Gar- net, 2747-2508. Ken Marchant's 233 and Bob Erianne's 200 paced the Gar- net's fi·rst-garne win, but John Hine's 529 was the best triple for Union. In hi?\hlights of last week's ' Dutch Classic League· action, Greg Ellis rolled a 222 592 and Team :fl: 7 toolt over sole posses- sion of first place. ·E lis's 5J2, ( with help from Jeff South's 222- . 584 gave Team #1 a 3-1 win over Team :f/:6, knocking the lat- ter out .of a first place tie. Team #l w0n three points from· lntramurals The Tigers of Second floor north, West College, have won the 1967 inter-dorm touch foot- ball crown. The team finished the season with a 6-0 record. On defense the club featured the F rosh Defeat RPI; Braham Runs First front follr of Roger Anderson, By HENRY FEIN Dave Mc:Keown, btephen Korn- The Garnet freshman Cross Country Team, which Coach feld, and Fred Maxfield. The Wilford Ketz regards as one of the hest in years, won its first defenslve secondary was com- meet of the 1967 season, defeating R.P.I. 23-32. The varsity, prised of Bob Chipkin, Jay Jo- continuing to run poorly, lost disappointingly to R.P.L hy a seph. and Reid Schwenk. Offen- 15 _ 5 0 score. s1vely Jon Siegal and Bob Teit- This was the Garnet harrier's first freshman win over tinen we1.1e the outstanding up- traditional rival R.P.I. since 1962. The varsity, on the other eratives. hand, has not beaten the Engineers since 1959. In Intramural football Delta The frosh meet was highlighted by John Braham's fine Phi eased :past the Independents performance, as he covered the 3.4 mile R.P.I. frosh course by virtue of a forfeit on October in 18:34 to take first honors. Finishing third overall was 10, and :moved into a tie with BHl Walker at 18:37. Last week it was reported that Bill Phi Sigma Kappa for the di- had left the squad due to academic problems. With only vision lead in the North with a one full practice under his belt after his return, he turned 3·0 slate. Phi Sigrr a Kappa kept in a highly promising performance. pace by downing Sigma Phi, 14- Another one of Coach Ketz's most promising harriers, Joe ti. On October 11. Chi Psi tri- Burgess, carried fourth honors in 18 :45. Bill Dawson, who umphed over Psi U 34-8. In ac- finished a disappointing eleventh in the Vermont meet last tion on ()ctober 12, Delta Chi week, turned in a greatly improved 19:17 time for fifth place. defeated fox, 19-0, and with a Steve Bassel rounded out the Garnet scoring five with a 3·0 record was even with South- tenth place finish in 19:54. ern League leader Chi Psi. On The varsity, on the other hand, continues to have its On October 13, Delta Phi beat troubles. A tough schedule, combined with a lack of real Phi Ep, 15-0; and moved their running power, has spelled trouble for the harriers a.ll season. record to 4-0, staying even with The Engineers won the .first seven places Saturday, led Phi Sigma Kappa. Delta Chi by Pollock's 25:31 clocking. The .first Garnet harrier to was upset by Alpha Delta, 12 6, fi-nish was captain Myron Fribush, who captured eighth in on October 17, and fell one half 27:50. Carl Thumm finished second for Union, eleventh over\ 7 Frosh Lose 25-19,· Sykes Scores Two :By JAY ELITZMAN For the second straight week, the freshmen gridders defeated themselves, losing to Hobart 25- 19. As was the case against Trinity, mistakes cost .the club \ictory. The first time the club got the baH, it rnal'ched 75 yards in 13 plays for the T.D., scored by Larry Sykes. Paul Ramsey con- verted, and the frosh were out in front 7-0. The first mistake came on a fumb!e of a Hobart punt. From the fifteen, it toook two plays to score and tie the game. Hobart moved .out in front 13-7 follow- ing an 80 yard drive. The con- version was blocked by right tackle Paul Beadle. With 3:30 of the second quarter left, the defense forced a .big break, re- covering a Hoba1t fumble. Sykes scored his second touchdown from in close, capping· a bril- liant first half in which the full- back displayed an uncanny facil- ity for picking holes in the line, and bursting through for big yardage. It appeared in the third quart- er as if the freshmen were go. ing to put the game away, scor- ing early on a 48 yard run by Jerry Ostrander on a scissors play. The defense had tight- ened, but they were asked to do too much too often. Playing without Larry Sykes, who injured his knee in the first half, the running game was no longer effective. Falling behind, the frosh were forced to rely more heavily on the pass, and their total inability to do so successfully cost them the ball game. Five interceptions marred the club's defensive showing, three corning in the last quarter. The last interception, with 25 seconds on the clock, in Hobart territory, had fol:owed a valiant stand in which thedefense set up a fourth and thirty-one situ- ation. ,. Tean1 ·# 5· despite a 2l6J59@ hy Jim Stratton for the losers. Tim House had 523 for the winners. Moffett's l.iquor Store won three points from ll'eam #4 behind Charlie Sullivan's 525. game behind Chi Psi. In the an, in 28:42. Pete Ericson finished fourteenth in 29:31, while Eastern League, Beta is all alone Ron Rhul wound up fifteenth at 29:41. Fifth for the Garnet, Fros·.h B·. ·.oo·ters at the top with a 4-0 mark, after Charles Evans finished seventheentlt in 31:51. downing Du 34-0. ____ __:b==='\==========='\============'-- Scoreboard & SchedulE This Week's Garnes: Football: Saturday: Hobal't (0-3-lJ at Union (3-1) ' Some say we specialize in power •• I power for propulsion ••. po.wer for auxiliary systems •.. power ior aircraft, missiles and space vehicles. I I power for marine and industrial applications ••• .•• lheJ're riDhl. ,And wrong. ., .. :·· It might be said, instead, that we specialize in people, for we believe that people are a most important reason for our company's success. We act on that belief. We select our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fielas that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. You could be one of the reasons for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's success ... if you have a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCIENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS. And we could be the big reason for.your success. Co~sult your college placement officer~or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. u DIVISION OF UNITED ~RAFT CORP. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT -...:,. - ·- - -_ •. ..J .a.n Equal Opporturlity Employer Even For Week The Garnet Frosh soccer team split its two games this week- end, losing to R.P J. Saturday 3-1, and winning at Northwood 5-3 Monday. The Dutchmen \peppered\ the R.P.I. goalie continuously in the first half, but accounted for on;y Fred Mindlin's first qu_arter score. In ·the third per- iod, the frosh defense was beat- en on quick breaks, as the swift R.P.I. line outran them to the ball to score three goals . Alexander Field 1 :3 o Union (F) at Rochester Soccer: Friday: Union at Rochester Saturday: Union at Alfl'ed Union (F) at Hobart eross ('ountn·: Wednesday: HamUtori at 'Union 3:00 l,ast We~k's itr!'Uits: }'ootball: Union 37 R.P.r. 25 Hobart 25 Union (F) 19 Soccer: Union 0 Middlebury o Union 1 R.P .I. 1 Union 5 Hobart 0 R.P.I. 3 Union (F) 1 Union (F) 5 Northwoed 3 Announcements Fr£shman and varsity wres- tling will begin November 1, 1967. All boys mJist receive physicals before that time. The time for physicals is 9 :00 to 10 :ZO or 1:00 to 3:30 at Silliman Hall. The young Garnet came back impressively against Northwood on Monday_ The first goal was booted in by Bobby Dodd. Early in the second period, a Midlin cross was pkked up by Kevin Coyne for Union's second score. Jack Lauroesch scored his sec- ond and third goals of the season within minutes of each other late in the same period. The young Garnets scored once in the second half, as Mindlin boot- ed his fourth goal of the season 1 off a Bill Porter pass. I All freshmen interesttd in ).)laying basketball for the fresh' man team should sign up in Coach Brown's office before Tuesday. I L. G. BALFOUR co. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATKER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDIUS • TROPHIES Write or Call . fraternity Jewelers 729 So11th Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food In Our Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.l\-1. to I A.M. ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT li59 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4 Lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb.------------ .35 DRYERS 30 lb.------------ .50 lOMin. --~~~------ .10 OI'EN - 8 A.M'. to 10 P.M: Mon. to Fri. - Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.l\1, 10 .4..M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU KAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED Let the lager freely flaw. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Almosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in o11r RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 DAMBROSE CLEANERS SHIRTS 23c·-- SUITS 1.00 -. PANTS SOc Student Discount on All Dry Cleani11g 1517 VanVranken Avenue FR 4-5193

6 Washington Protest Page 1 Concordy Sports Housing Page,& Pearce Tosses Three Sc·o~ing Passes; Hobart 'Jinx' Should Be Broken ,Sat. Continued from Page 1 quickly moved in for the score on eight plays, the big one a third down pass from Contenta to Lee which was good for 27 yards. Gary Masner cracked through for the score from the one. Not dazzled at all by tl1e R.P.I. lightniing, the Garnet drove 64 yards fer a tying score, mostly on the run- ning of James. He broke through gaping holes twice, the second time g()ing 26 yards for the score. Art Jacobs kick tied the seore ::~t 7-7. C onteMto Scores It appeared as if both teams would break the half-eentury mark as R.P.I. drove 65 yards with tne following kickoff. Con· tento hit Jaek Hart for 25 big yards, and then ran nine yards himself to paydirt. The extra point was blocked. The fourth consec-utive touchdown appeared likely until another Union offen· sive threat was halted at the home two yard line. :But when the E n!';ineers were forced to punt, Steve Ciesinski ran back the kick to the R.P.L 35. On the iirst play of that series, Pearce hit Carlson for a 35 yard score ·Over the run-conscious R.P.I. defense. Jacobs added the go ahead point via his, toe. The defensive squads made a reason- able sl!()wing for a short time, and late in the second quarter the Gamet found itself on its own 22, Pearce hit Swan with a short sideline pass which he ~atherecl in with the crook of his elf:>ow and the speedy end then r()cketed thraugh the Engi- neer secondary for an amazing 78-yard score. This was Swanny's ECAC Sophs Ricl:t Swan and Craig Carlson, sophorn()re pass receivers on the 3-1 Garnet football team, took the h()nors as \sophomore of 1he week\ in the ballotting for ECAC D i v i s i o n III AU-Star teams o:f the past two weeks. Swan ocopped the honors for his game against Rochester, while Carlson was named for his per. formance versus R.P.I. Swan was also named to the team as an end for his same against St. Lawre:nce 3 weeks ago. Joe James has been nominated for 1 he team all four weeks, but has yet to make it. Ron McAvoy was 111ominated twice without success, and John Burt<Jn once. Players from thirty to forty teams are considered for the weekly teams. Union is ranked ninth as a team in this division. sixth TD eatch of the season, tying a Union record set by Art Marshall in 1963. Sustained Drive The second half opened with Umon protectmg a ~l:-13 ad- vantage, and they qaickly added to it on a long bali control march on the running of James and lV1onahan. At the .R.P.L two yard line Pearce rolled out and tound Carlson all alone .in the end zone for the tally. The point was blocked. The defense con- tinued to stymie the ·Engineers, but the otfense sputtered as fumbles by James and lVlonahan gave Scott Kumpf, who came in lor Pearce at the helm, no chance to move the team. An H.P.l. field goal attempt was blocked near the end of the third quarter, and the following drive brought the baH deep into home terr1tory. When the of- fense stalled, Jacol>s booted a 36 yard field goal to bring the tally to 30-13, and the Engineers looked dead. In frighteningly quick order they then put 12 points on the board as Contento drove in from the two, and then hit Lee from 28 yards away. Both two point conversion attempts failed, and a surprised Union sq11ad found itself clinging to a 30-25 lead with five minutes to play. Carl- son then made his back ·break- ing kickoff return all the way to the R.P.I. 17. After a penalty, a pass from Pearce to Carlson brought the ball to the two. From there, James swept left end for the clincher. After the kickoff, Dill crashed down on Contento as he looked for a receiver, causing him to fumble, and the Garnet captain recovered the bobble himself. Another famble recovery by Mc- Avoy in the closing minute al- lowed Unian to run out the clock. ' Lacrosse Several members of the la· crosse team traveled to W or- cester, Massachusetts Saturday and defeated Holy Cross 12 3 in an unofficial contest. Leading the scoring for the Garnet were last year's varsity scoring lead- ers Steve Ritterbush and Lee Schneider. The former had three goals and assisted on two others, while the latter con- tributed two tallies and three assists. Midfielder Ken Milne played a fine field game and ,\lelped out on defense well. Roundins out the scoring was Bruce Westby with three goals, Peter Brittin with two goals and one assist, and Jim O'Neil and Ken Dukehart scored one each. Player of the Week --: ·. __ .·:·;·.:r::·~!=i:~~~-i:~~}::.::;;-::.k::~::- ~:;r . . ~.;~*:;. -:-~:~~~M:~f:*::::.;:?.:::J~::t- .. t~1~~~lli~iftJ~~1~~~i~~it~lj~B y Gary Pr.evost Larry McFarlane was a key figure in the Garnet booters fine play last week in tying Middle- bury and R.P.I., two of the Gar- net's toughest opponents. The senior full back was par- ticularly impressive in the Mid- d'ebury game when he was not beaten once on his side of the fie:d. He continually thwarted the Panther attack and cleared the ball effectively to the Gar- net front line. McFarlane's fine play continued at R.P.I. where his defensive work helped the Garnet control much of the game. His fine play is not limited to the past week. Coach Brown cal'ed his play at St. Lawrence two weeks ago \the finest sin~le game effort by an individual this season.\ Coach Brown considers him the hardest player on his squad that he will have to re- SlnARow For Hobart Ey GARY PREVOST The last time Union. College defeated Hobart in football was 1961, ;~hen the Garnet downed a winless Hobart squad 39-13. The length of the Tosmg streak, five years, is not particu.arly .im- pressive. The Garnet have lost ten games in a row to Williams, but .the situation.s surrounding Hobart losses have led to the formation of the Hobart \jinx.\ In 1C62, Hobart entered the Cnion gan:e with no wins and en·.erged with what praYed to be its only win of the season, by a 14-6 count. The Garnet en- tel ed the 1963 contest with a potent offense that had produced 93 points in its fi·rst four games, and were treated to a 17-0 white- wash. N eedlng a victory for the I.C.A.C. title in 1964, the Dutch- men played their worst game of the season and were downed 19-13. A 35-14 loss to theStates- men in 1965 turned the tide in what could have been a very successful season. The 1966 game saw Union lose 7-6 in a poorly played contest. Many reasons have been of- fered for the Hobart jinx, which has also extended to lacrosse in the past two seasons. The best answer may be the position of the game in the schedule. The Engineers have not been con- sidered a physically tough team, and have been poor preparation for a Statesman team which al- ways plays t o u g h football. Therefore, last weekend's R.P.I. encounter may have helped the Garnet, as they met a hard-hit- ting E&\l;l~ineer squad for the f. rst time in many years. 'l'he 1967 Statesmen come to S<:henectady Saturday with an Oc3-1 record, having been de- feated by Alfred 20-15, Hamil- ton 28-0, and Cortland State 18- 14. They gained a 14-14 tie ll \:linst St. Lawrence. Hobart's offence is led by senior quar- terback Mark Hanna; who has completed 36 of 89 passes this season for a total of 510 yards. The leading back is Bill James, \' ho in three games has carried 51 tirres for 241 yards and a 4.4 yards rer carry avera,lle. Com- p~ementing James in the back- ,. eld is Mark Perkins, who is the team's leading pass receh- \- with 180 yards on 12 recep- place next year. larry Mcfarlane t · ----------F======~==~======~~~\:~n:.~~·=~~-~-~---.--~-~-~--~· ~---- REMEMBER WHEN? PICK UP AN El~TRA TREAT! You always got your cheer at MOFFETT'S LIQUOR STORE Parf.<wood Blvd at Rugby Rd. Dial 393-3631 1505 Van Vranken 016-0392 Your closest friend-next to Mohawk Bank ~ ,_. __ -_ ·-··-~-. ------- FABIAN'S STATE THEATRE THE MOST UNABASHED ART FILM EVER TO COME OUT OF HOLLYWOOD INPSYCHEDELIC COLOR o STARTS TOMORROW e FRIDAY ENDS TUES. OCT. 31st PETER FONDA. SUSAN STRASBERG Roii PLUS •.. SENSATIONAL CO-FEATURE! Picture of the Year:'· N.Y. Times Pawnbroker Rooters In Surge; Keyed By Defense The Garnet boaters capped a successful week yesterday with a 5-0 win over Hobart, represe)lting their finest effort of the season. The hooters arc now 3-3-2 having tied two of their toughest oppon- ents, R.P.I. and Middlebury, last week. After a scoreles first period against the 2-4 Hobart .team, the Garnet scored three goals in less than four minutes in the second period. The first goal was scored by Tijan Sal:lah, and was followed by Larry McFarlane's penalty kick. Robert Okello scored a minute later to close the first half scoring. Peppered Goalie 'l'he second half was all Union, as the Garnet fmnt line peppered the Statesman goalie with 28 ·shots, while Hobart managed just one shot on the Union goal in the entire half. Carlos Duran scored with an assist from Jim Wilson in the third period while Art Munkenbeck added a fourth period goal with an assist from Bob Seefried. The Middlebury game, was extremely well played. The defenses of both teams dominated the play with fullbacks Larry McFarlane and Pete Palen, and halfback Bob Seefried turning in especially fine performances for the Garnet. The hooters strongest play came in the first overtime period when the Garnet kept possession almost the entire five minute period in the Middlebury half of the field. The Dutchmen had five good shots at the Panther goal during the period, the final by Bob Kkello at the gun being just barely turned away on a fine save by the Panther goalie. Scored Late R.P.I. scored first in Saturday's - stalemante hitting the Union goal late in the first period. Bob Okello knotted the score for the Garnet moments into the second period when he beat the R.PJ. goalie to the ball and scored unassisted. Ben Volinski was especially good in the goal making several firre saves and 15 in all. The hooters seem to be improving with every game and though a week of two ties and one win may not seem impressive, the strergth of the opposition must be considered. Middlebury plays a l::pgh level game of soccer and has not dropped a contest to Union since 1959. Prior to 1,967 the Engineer hooters had defeated the Garnet in 18 of their 20 meetings. The key to the fine play can be found in the play of the halfbacks and fullbacks, and continued improvement of goalie Ben Volinski, whom the RPI coach call \the best \I've seen this year. . DUNGAREE-' MANIA The which is a neurosis suffered by many of the Pro· pri€tor's custom, who find an ever larger wardrobe of dungarees necessary 1o comfort and good appear· ance out e£ doors. We prescribe to cure this malaise in a wide range of fabrics and colourin~s, 1 The 11 ~quirt ~~Up OPEN THURSDAY AND FRIDAY TlLL 9 P.M. 326 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY ·Vol. 97 DEL' COP Delta the Br• 1\Iemori The Trophy Delta h who di• is mad< intra-m1 ities, az Chi 1 Award graduat its ple< time se The J finish fo 1) Del 2) Ph] 3) Del 4) Ch1 5) Ph] 6) Del 7) Psi 8) Bet 9) Sig 10) Sig 11) Phi 12) ThE 13) Al:v 14) Phi 15) KaJ 16) Phi L4 D: D~ Club m called import: HE Union' ment n This powers tion to binding nuclear will hel structuro for new antees. ' security countrie \' Pakistan ment by United acting a It is th1 can be 1 The s· negotiatJ tion of j and the al Atom inspectir the Use< Commis~ tries do als and be react Accor< of the 1 steps tal and Pek Many n< that the steps wil the pas~ treaty. ~ governm Moscow The mil: not want ing fore~: build ant could sig arms r~ ments m tion of 1 warhead1 theory c want a j defensivE

