with a the season. oppon- team, the the second followed a minute peppered just one scored while Art from Bob defenses McFarlane n especially play possession half of the anther goal being just the Union score for beat the was 15 in all. and though the ebury plays contest to defeated fine play and the RPI Pro· l Segregation Page 4 SKIDMORE CALENDAR Pagel Founded at Union College 1877 PRICE 15 CENTS 'Vol. 97- No.7 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1967 DELTA CHil FRAT COPS B:ROWN CUP Delta Chi Fraternity was awarded the Brown Cup at ceremonies in 1\Iemorial Chapel Oct. 26. The Steven B. Brown Memorial Trophy was established by Phi Sigma· Delta in 1959 in honor of a member who died as a student. The award is made on the basis of scholarship, intra-murals, extra-curricular activ- ities, and leadership. Chi Psi won the Graduate Goals A ward given to the fraternity that ·.· graduates the highest percentage Q'f.~~: its pledge class within the prope'r time se9.uence. The fraternities, in order of their finish for the Brown Cup, were: 1) Delta Chi 2) Phi Epsilon Pi \''-' ~. ,,'•. Photo by Dick Daniels Tw,p Hobart tacklers try to briri€J. dowj;,Garnet fullback Kevin Mhon 1 ahan (40) as Ted Jennings (75) and Johof<ocanlon (61) try to dear a o e. 3) Delta Upsilon 4) Chi Psi 5) Phi Sigma Delta 6) Delta Phi 7) Psi Upsilon Gridders Drub Hobart· 8) 9) 10) 11) 12) 13) 14) 15) 16) Beta Theta Pi Sigma Chi Sigma Phi Phi Sigma Kappa Theta Delta Chi Alpha Delta Chi Phi Delta Theta Kappa Alpha Phi Gamma Delta By LEN SIMON , A record Homecoming crowd saw the Garnet gridders put on their finest show of all~around football as they smashed Hobart 37-15 Saturday. The Dutchmen now stand 4-1 on the season, and travel to Williams this weekend for what could be the fea- ture encounter of the season. The aerial combination of sopho- mores Ken Pearce and Craig Carlson did most of the damage to the States- men while the home club had the Lenefsky Predicts Disarmarllent Role By PAUL FARNHAM David Lenefsky, speaking at last week's International Relations Club meeting to a group of thirty-five Union and Skidmore students, called the nonproliferation treaty now under discussion \the most important document since the U.N. charter:\ . He predicted that agreement by the Umted States and the Sov1et Union on the treaty will increase the United Nation's role in disarma- ment negotiations. This treaty would oblige nuclear powers not to give atomic informa- ball. Pearce threw for 295 yards and four touchdowns, the latter mark equaling one of Tom Hitchcock's rec- ords. Carlson pulled in 12 of those passes for 237 yards and two scores, eclipsing Marc Hurlbut's yardage rec- ord. Also the running of fullback Kev- in Monahan showed further improve- ment. Learning to play fullback this year, Kevin has come into his own as a ball-carrier in the past two games. However, unlike the victory over R.P.I., this conquest should rightfully be credited also to the defensive platoon. Led by ends Sam Dill and John Burton, and sparked by Steve Bauer's 49-yard touchdown run with an interception, they held Hobart's adequate offense to no total net yard- age in the first half. The scores by the Statesmen came with the pressure off. The entire defense showed itself capable of stopping a fine passer in Mark Hanna, and two fine running backs in Perkins and James. Explosion The Garnet exploded to a 14-0 lead in the first quarter as Pearce riddled the defense with passes. Hobart double covered Rich Swan throughout the game, and this allowed Carlson to shine, since Hobart's single cover- Continued on Page 6 ACC Committee Supports More ;Off-Cam.pus Uving By STEVE WALL The All-College Council special committee on off-camptls housing recom- mended mcreasea. ott-campus living next year and converting Umon to a \pr\marrly\ rather than exclusively residential Co:Uege. The All-C<>Hege Council had deferred the questiOn to this committee last Thursday, The <!ornm1ttee, which met Tuesday to discuss. their recommendations, consisted ot Protessor Frank Gado, Gerry <..frau, and Ray Pike. It will submit lts undmgs to the All·CoUege Council at its next meetmg, November 8. Two-Phases The committee considered two phases of the off-campus housing problem. F1rst, they agr-ef!d upon a solution to the immediate problem ±aced next year by the co.~Jege, and secondly, they chose a long range plan. By 1970 the <.::ouege 1s expected to ha~e approximately 1600 students with dormitory space lor on1y 130<i. :Even al:lowmg !or man:1ed students and commuters a consider· able number wiH have to hve in non-college residence. ' Preferred Status The committee of the ACC will attempt to set criteria for preferred stu- dents, who wou1d be fh·st to obtain off-campus rooms. This will be based to a large degree on age and class; those over 23 chosen first then fifth-year students then senwrs, and if any spac,es rem~n, juniors. The decisions of who gets th~ spaces w1thm tne classes will be del:!iaed by a lottery. l<'reshmen wi'U not be allowed to room off-campus. The ACC committee recommended that all College owned living faciht1es be full before more students are allowed to live off-campus. This is primarily a fiscal matter since the d.or.mitor~es ('With the exception of North College) are all now operating on a deficit bas1s. Jf more students were allowed to nve off-campus without first tilung the dormitories, the College would lose mo1~e money because of the empty rooms. North College The committEe recommended that no new dormitories be built and that North be converted into something other than a dormitory. The committee also brought up the idea that faculty members and students might live together in College-owned off.cam:pus apartments. It also suggested that a study be made of the effect of the various living unit environments on grades. Many students would be eager to live off-campus according to an opinion survey conducted last year. Among the reasons given for this willingness were mcreased privacy, social freedom, ease of studying, and reduce~ expense. Sharlet Delivers Report On USSR In Washington By RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. On Thursday, October 26; Prof. Robert S. Sharlet, Assistant Professor of Political Science, went to Wash- ington for a final briefing of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency (U.S.kC.D.A.) on a project entitled \Legal Aspects of Verifica- tion in the Soviet Union.\ Sharlet, a Political Scientist who studied law at Moscow University. was Associate Project director of the study of the Soviet political and legal systems. The study dealt with the problems of inspection and verifica- tion of an arms control treaty in the Soviet Union, should such a treaty be negotiated. In the event that the Soviets were willing to negotiate a treaty, the State Department wants to be aware of all problems and questions from Soviet restrictions for inspectors. Sharlet pointed out that there are many areas in the U.S.S.R. closed to travel by foreigners where nuclear testing is carried out. Travel in the ·soviet Union is also much more restricted. Access to military instal- lations is tightly controlled, and ill general, the society is much more centrally and rigidly directed than in the United States. The study explored such questions as the legal problems involved in liv- ing, traveling, and intruding into a very different society from our own. There are many legal problems con- cerned with gathering information in Russia since almost everything there is classified. tion to non-nuclear countries while binding the latter not to manufacture nuclear weapons on their own. It will help solidly the world power structure while presenting the need for new international security guar- antees .. To make the treaty workable, security guarantees must be given to countries such a~ India, I:m~el, apd Pakistan against the treaty's infringe- ment by their adversary. N eitller the United States nor the Soviet Union acting alone can give these pledges. It is through the U.N. that progress can be made, MOUNTEBANKS INVITE 3500 Also explored in the study were the legal rights of foreigners in the Soviet Union (as would be the in- spectors), the status of international organizations in the country, and other questions concerning the ac- cess of foreign nationals to informa- tion and travel. The study~afltei'npted to point oi\11 the stand . of Soviet The stumbling block in the treaty negotiations at present is the ques- tion of inspection. The United States and the U.S.S.R. want the Internation- al Atomic Energy Agency to do the inspecting while West Germany favors the use of Euratom (European Atomic Commission). All non-nuclear coun- tries do want inspeCtion of their riv- als and an agreement probably will be reached, Lefensky said. Further Steps According to Lenefsky, the success of the treaty depends upon further steps take by the U.S., the Russians, and Peking to limit their own arms. Many non-nuclear countries demand that the nuclear powers take such steps within three to five years after the passage of the nonproliferation treaty. Yet there are splits in the governments in both Washington and Moscow over future defense policies. The military in both countries does not want to give up its nuclear strik- ing force. Each country has started to build antiballistic missile systems. This could signal the beginning of another arms race. Technological develop- ments may make possible the produc- tion of missiles carrying up to fifty warheads each, thus destroying the theory of deterrents. The Russians want a freeze on both offensive and defensive weapons. Any agreement Continued on Page 2 By BAR1' HARRINGTON, JR. The Governor and Lt. Governor of New York, representatives of many prestigious foundations and 3500 other political and theatrical dignitaries have been invited to tomorrow night's performance of the Union Col· lege Department of the Arts and the Mountebanks' opening production. The 1967-68 season begins with a bill of three one-act plays tonight, Friday, and Saturday nights. The Fri- day night performance will be fol- lowed by a reception in Hale House for invited guests, press and drama figures, and faculty. Several signifi- cant announcements will be made at that time. The three plays are Anton Chek· Editorship Open Any students who wish to apply for the position of Editor,in-Chief of Concordiensis may obtain appli- cation forms at the Student Activ- ities Office. Completed_ forms must be placed · in the Concordy box in Old Gym Hall by 4:30p.m. Friday, November 10. An election will be held the following week to select a new editor, hov's The Celebration, Harold Pinter's The Dumb Waiter, and the world premier of William Meriwether's Rock Grizzle, Actor, Meets Sh!.ikespeare, All three performances have been sold out, but the plays will probably be re-run in January. This production very well may represent, according lo Mike Halperson, Director of the Mountebanks, \a renaissance in hu- manities at Union,\ and \the bh;gest thing since Charles Coburn's Mohawk Drama Festival of thirty years ago.\ At that time Coburn's group was the envy of collegiate drama, and was rated above the acclaimed Yale Drama c:ub. Dramatis Personnae Area actress Jinx Lendenauer plays a central role in The Celebration, Chekhov's last one-act play. Written in 190i, three years l;:>efore the fam- ous playwright's death, the play ex- ploits for comic purposes his dra- matic device of people completely unable to see the world in objective terms. The result is a set of charac- ters who cannot communicate with each other in any way. Lyn Paul of Scotia plays the second female role in Celebration, that of Nastasia. Miss Paul, a senior at the State University at Potsdam, has appeared many times in high school and college produc- tions. Dean Hoffman, who appeared in several Mountebanks productions last season, will play Hirin. William Judd, Donald House, Alan Moodie, and William Knipscher, also Union College students, are newcomers to the Nott Theater stage. Harold Pinter's most· recent play is currently enjoying a successful and controversial run in New York. The Dumb Waiter, first presented in Lon- don in 1960, forcefully evokes, like all of Pinter's plays, the terror hidden and inherent in our complex, if fa- miliar. world. In this dram<I Qf alien- ation;· the ·questioning Gus is played by Union student James Gallagher, h1s antagonist Ben by Alan Moodie. The Celebration is under the di- rection of William Meriwether, Pro- fessor of Drama and Director of Thea- ter at Union. Robert Thurber, a sen- ior at Union, directs The Dumb Wait· ll'. In place of G-enet's Deathwatch, oril'{inally scheduled for this week-end and now slated for a second bill of one-acts on November 16-18, will be the world premier of Prof. Merri- wether's comedy, llock Grizzle, Actor, lUeets Shakespeal'e. in which the author plays the title role, as well as the silent, but suffering Shakespeare. GRADUATE I .. - A panel discussion on graduate studies will be held on Tuesday, November 7, at 8:00 p.m., in room 16 of the Social Sciences Building. The purpose of the discussion will be to help students decide whether or not to go to graduate school; and if they decide to do so, what form of graduate studies to undertake. The panel members, representing the views of both industry and education, will discuss graduate work in engineering vs. graduate work in business, and fulltime graduate studies ·vs. part· time studies. Student are invited. . law on these questioiis. Principal sources for the report were Soviet law codes and legal studies, Western scholarship on the Soviet system, and interviews with former officicals of the U.S. embassy in Moscow. Sharlet said that he and the two others involved in the study hope to publish their study under the title Arms Control Under Soviet Law if they obtain permissiOn fro!TI the U.S.A.C.D.A. The books would be both a current policy study and a comprehensive guide to how the Soviet system works as viewed through the legal sub-system. Coat· Tie Regulations Rescinded at Yale Yale University has laid to rest one of its oldest and most revered traditions. Undergraduates are no longer required to wear coats and ties in the University dining hall. The New York Times reported Mon- day that the new rule adopted by the University requires merely \a rea- sonably neat appearance\ for eating in the hall. Elias Clark, Chairman of Yale's Council of Masters, consisting of rep- resentatives for each of the Univer- sity's 12 residential colleges, e:xplained \We are not against coats and ties. In fa¢t we hope that students __ Will con- tinue to dress decently an.d wear them if they want. We just felt that it was Continued on Page 2 I. \ :t,: !, '' ·'

2 China Seminar A Seminar on China wiH be held at SUNY (Albany) on November 10 and 11. It will include lectures, a film, and dancing, as well as a free meal and transportation. Those interested in attending should contact Mr. Thurston, SS 21'3 E. ~COAT FO'R SALE Siz:e 48 Green Corduroy Sports Coat I Mrs. Glen I I 136 Rosa Rd. 374-5285 I I DIAMt\NTE'S Enjoy Our Fine 1-iome Cooked ltalion Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott StreEt Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Sclcsds Sun. I Open Tues. - I 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. I I 11Je PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga !toad : ' MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER I At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe ! TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also ' THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM I SCOTIA, N.Y. I Phone 399-16130 I DAR I TREET RESTAtJRANT 2049 VanVranken Ave CHAR-BROILE[) STEAK DINNE~ $1.50 BEEFBURGER PLATTER $1.10 w/Fr. Fries & Vegetable FR 7-4261 1957 FORD 2-DOOR Good Condition Standard Shift Price $150.0() C. R. C~eam(!r 2276 Berkley Ave. Schenectady Printing Co.,. Inc. 502 Broadway ~77-8838 New·UN Role • • • Continued from Page 1 such as this would be strictly a bilat- eral affair. China must also be taken into account. ¥ et Peking has stated it wiJil not enter disarmament negotia- tions until it :becomes a member of the Security Council. On the question of China's admis- sion to the U.N., Lenefsky believes that it will not occur either this year or next year for several reasons. Al- though a majority of the members want China in the U.N., the big prob- lem is how to deal with the country in its present state. No nation wants to deal with a government which is facing such chaos and turmoil as is that of the Chinese. Mao has too many internal problems to worry about U.N. admission right now. With national elections next year, the Unit- ed States probably wm not take a strong stand on the subject until after the elections, and the matter will be postponed further. \The only cats worth anything are the cats who take chances. Sometimes I play- things I never heard myself .. \ --Thelonious Monk ,. Tlumday, November 2, 1967 Vale Rescinds Coat-Tie ~Rule ..• Continued from Page 1 improper for us to enforce a rigid rule.\ The vote to rescind the rule came in the wake of .protest and agitation by various student groups. Coats and ties at dinner have on:ly been required of Yale undergradu- ates for the last 10 years. One col'lege master commented that before that time the rule wasn't needed. \Students used to be willing to dress for meals,\ he said. By 1957, however, this was no longer the case. The Jituation ha.:l deteriorated to such an extent that the Yale Corporation, the University's governing trustees, asked the admin- istrat.ion to put a halt to sloppy dress at meals . As ls often the case with such rules; tllis one was enforced in- co.nsistently1 and students deliberately abttsed it oy wearing sloppy shirts and .trottsers with their coats and ties: Mr; ~Clarlr observed that \the new ru,le a1Jlo'\\vs each residential college to deternJime its own standards. We hope it vvm ,also ,prevent standards of neat- ness from disappearing completely.\ FOR SALE Gi))son Guitar LG-1, 2 yrs old; ex- cellellt condition, Bob Winner. 377-6983 \Don't keep forever on the public road, going only where others have gone. Leave the beaten t:rack occasionally and dive into th.e woods. You'll be certain to find something you have never seen before.\ --Alexander Graham Bell --- ~ ..... -~ ; To communi.cate is the beginning of understanding @A!~J ~· Thursd<J CO· I An Tit( voters ~ trim me~ :Pol present1 in lllaki the sta Catholic calculat Preside Given t questi()I .Eas is the money · tution · religiou state ll1 basis oJ whethe1 Th1 Catholi~ the wea cal con and le.g the fut1 With p~ a poliU 'rhc badly II prov€m to ·reorJ clause; section the aSSI apporti< tapping peoples The sec 1Jn: consiste to solvf buck: or One Sl \Fo1 Gen Thos~ Who HavE re~or \\3 I FOR

~er 2, 1967 :loppy dress with such tforced in· deliberately oppy shirts :lts and ties; t \the new tl college to Is. We hope rds of neat· npletely.\ yrs old; ex· inner. .... -..; J (p Thursday, Novem~er 2, 1967 Constitution Attempts To Adapt To Times;.- Amendments And Polities Slow .. Going By R. LAWRENCE ·'The shining light of a new Constitution stands before the voters of November 7, or is it tlle old gas light of the 1890's trimmed and tapered anew with a lresh supply of oi.l. Political partisanship fFom tl1.e selection of delegates to the presentation of the eonstitution suggests no statesman had a hand in making of this new light, but ·rather the conflieting loyalties of the state's Liberals, Republicans, Democrats, Conservatives and Catholics played the larger role. CcJold poHtical1bargaining and hard calculating were the basis on whi<:h. Anthony Travia, .convention President and gubernatorial aspirant, formed his policy decisions. Given the large role played in thE formation of the basic policy questions hy Mr. Travia, the resultant should be no surprise. Blaine Amendment the single package concept, designed to gather the su[)port of the Catholics and enough scattered' votes to pass a documEnt that no one can praise as exceHent. Public reaction to the proposed repeal has been strong and vocal. Groups ranging from the Ltberal party to the CivN Liberties Union and the League of Wome!l Voters and the N. Y. Parent- Teacher Association have come out against the new constitution solely on this issue. Unfortunately the single package su:brnission will almost definitely force the voters to· decide on the 1l>asis of whether the new constitution is better than the old rather than on the basis of individual issues. The support the Catholic :Bishops have given for tll.e new constitution has been so strong and with such obvious goals in mind that many laymen, Catholic and non-Catholic are wcndering why this sudden interest of the Church ln .granting the freedom of choice to all children. Perhaps the Catholic priests f()resee paro- chial schools being supported .by .public funds at some tirne in the future although any priest will disavow any such idea. 3 UNION. CALEN:DAR' .Thursday, Friday, Saturday, ·Nov, ::Z, 3, 4: 8:30 p.m.-Mountebanks present three one-act plays-Genet's uoeathweltch,\ Chekhov's \Celebration and Plnter\s ulhe Dumbwaiter.'' Friday, Nov. 3: Film Series, .. Macarlo,\ 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., Social Science Building M. Octavo Concert, 8:00 p.m., Memo,iol Chapel. Saturday, Nov. 4: Freshman 'football vs. R.P.I., 2:00 p.m., Alexander Fieldd. Mandcy, Nev. 6: Marine ·Co.!'ps Officer Procurement, :10 .. 2 p.m. Hale House Student Lounge Wednesday, Nov. ·8: Convoce~lion, The Fredonia Percussion Ensemble, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Thursday, Nov. 9: Convocollon, William Stringfellow, author, attorney, lay theologian, \Peace. and Raca,\ 11:30 a.m., Memorial Chapel. SK IDMO.RE ·cALENDAR . Thurz.day, 'Nov. 2: ·Film sponsored by Ameiiccm Student Information Service, \Europe in the Summer 1 ', 7;15 p.m., ~a11guage Center, Saturday, Nov. 4: Film sponsored by Skidmore Movie Committee, ''Lost Horizons,'' 7:30 p.m., Clark Street House. (No admission charge.) Monday, Nov, 6: french film short sponsored by Department of Modern languages, ''Sill· og-::s/ T 7 p.m· .. , Languoge ·Center, Tuesday, Nov. 7: Poetry reading sponsored by Pegasus, reading by Mr. laurence Josephs, Assistant Professor of English, Skidmore. Wednesday, Nov. 8: ·Grace A. Cocroft lecture .presented by Skidmore College Lecture Series, ''Time and Histor.y, •• by Dr. Caroline Robbins, Historian and Educator, Bryn Mawr College, 7:30 p.m., College Hall. Thursday~ Nov. 9: International Re!<Jtions Conference sponsors movie, uRoom ot the Top\ 7 & 9 p.m., Community Tneatre. (Admission charge). lillernctional Relations Club pre· sents lecture by Robert S. Shorlet, Professor Of Political Science Union <;:o·JJege, ''The Soviet ·Union as a Developing Country 1917-1967,\ 7:30p.m., Th1ese Filene Music Build· ing. Skidmore Deportment •of ·DrC~mo production of ''Venu'io Ob5oerved'' by Chri5otopher Fry, 8 p.m., Little Thoahe. (Admission charge). Easily the most controversial issue in the new constitution is the so-called Blaine Amendment barring the use of public money \directiy or indirectly, in aid or maintenance of any insti- tution learning wholly or in pari under the direction of any religious denomination , .. \ The Roman Catholic Bishops of the state have pushed their hard seH of the new Constitution on the basis of this single issue. Observe:r.s, including this one, question whe1Jher the hierarchy can deliver the lay note in toto. lmplica1ions , -.~ ;=:=~=========================:i Repeal of the Blaine Amendlllent can only drain off funds i Politics Rules The politically potent Mr. Travia, the powerful, we'l'l organized Cath.ofic Church \representing\ 40 '/o of the state's population, and the weak, ineffectual Republicans set the scene for a purely politi- cal convention. Also represented at the Convention were judges and legislators, men who would have to run for office again in the future and were indebted to ·party leaders for past favors. With. politicians rather than statesman writing the new document a poJ.itical document could only l'esult. The new constitution is not .all bad. It contains many fine, badly needed .features: its Bill of R.ights is excellent, a clear im· provement over the present sectbn; the power for the Governor to reorganize department is helpful; an excellent \forever wild\ clause; a good education section; an improved local government section permitting regional units to solve common problems, and the assumption of local welfare costs by the state. A sensible re- apportionment procedure, explicit approval of court ordered wire- tapping is better than the previous method and affirmation of the peoples right to examine public records all add to the constitution. The section concerned with urban development is also excellent. \Unfortunately the constitution could not maintain the same consistency on the more potent t>olitical issues. The method used to solve the issue of lowering the voting age is typical: pass the buck on the legislature so you don't have to take a stand. Likewise ·\ FERRO R f L A X I PHARMACY • PLAY BilLIARDS AT 575 Nott Street ! Y. 'i Jay Schenectady, N. ., Billiard Lounge FR 7-0510 167 Jay Street FOUNTAIN SERVICE SPECIAL RATES One block from Brownell For Union Men Gate UNION BOOK COMPANY 237-241 ST~TE STREET Books a •• Paperback Classics --- .. :--- Party Favors • . Art Supplies Office s·upplies Serving Union For 34 Years SILVER DINER Gf Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. • 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and lrrlormal Atmosphere \For three Generations/· Those Who Know •• Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. ~auriceB. Q'~~ro~ &ns \~3 Union Graduates i11 Graubart Family'• 166 JA'i ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE ~ND GOOD JEWELRY badly needed by public schools. At this point the se puation of church and state comes as close to rupture as possible. No state will permit its funds to be spent l:Jy any organization without de· mandmg a large say in how these funds are to be spcent, If a school will not permit discussion of such issues at Vietnam (\A War for Civilization\-Cardinal Spellman), birth control orah>rtion wilJI the state find it possible to intervene? Amendment Faults The Blaine issue aside, the rest of the constitution is n.o gem. The article on the judiciary made none of the reforms re(}uested and needed at the beginning of the convention. It failed to provide merit selection of judges or a unified court system and; continues the political system of the selection of judges; and the separate claims and surrogates' courts. The finance section also lads any redeeming factors while opening the door for increased SJ.>ending without any corresponding checks. Rockefeller, the latest politician to come out in favor of the. constitution states \I will work diligently to bring ab()ut amend- ments and legislative action which will correct or modify the undesireable features and to hold down to manageable pmportions the expenditure of public funds ... \His :proposal to amend ·the new and supposedly improved constitution can only be examined in the political light. With a $2.5 billion transportation bond issue coming up on the same ballot Rockefeller would rather see both passed than both defeated and feels a yes vote on both is easier for the state's voters than a split and confusing y~s and no vot~. The issues for the single ballot for the constitution has· :hidden from many people the simple fact that with. only a year delay those parts of the proposed constitution can take effect. If ap!Jroved the present constitution will take effect on Jan. 1, 19{)9 but if amendments are approved by the 1968 and 1969 legislatures and approved by the voters those amendments will take e:ffect on Jan. 1, 1970, only one year after the other constitution will take effect. This process can only be started ·by a NO vote on tlu new constitution on November 7, 1967, · RITz REsT AU-RANr·---l· 1725 Van Vrc:~nken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE IT ALlAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiclles Cit All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Yeers Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bow.l 32 AMF Bowling Lanes Open 8 A.M.. to 3 A..M. SNACK BAR ON 'PREMISES REALE'S For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featurii1(J Nikon, Hasselblad, Leica, AR Speakers, Sony Recorders 1957 Foster Ave. Let the lager freelr, flow. Down to Louis', let .us go, FR ~-4446 A unique place to dine with old European Atmospher.e NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State end Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 Community Benefit OLD FOR NEW! 20<Jo Tracie in Allowance Toward a GENTLEMEN'S and GENTLEWOMEN'S new SUIT .. COAT or SPORT JACKET YOUR TRADE-IN SUIT 1 COAT OR SPORT JACKET WILL BE DONATED TO THE NEXT-TO-NEW-SHOP/ OWNED AND OPERATED BY 3Juttior i!lragnr nf §r~.rurrta~y All FROFITS REVERT TO THE COMMUNITY TRUST FUND PAST PROJECTS: CER.EBRAL PALSY SCHOOL GIRLS' CLUB CAMP ETC. FINAL AllOWANCE DAY NOV. 11 * TONIGHT 'til NINE- SATURDAY 'til SIX

4 Thursday, November 2, 1967 .The Evolution Of Revolution By ALAN ZIEGLER. Why? Why now have we soared from the uninvolved stupor of the Silent Fifties to the peremptory profusion of protest that has marked the Vociferous Sixties? Pullllt:;hl·t.l 'rhUI'.l;HJu.ya durmg the scnoo• year by the Student Body of Union Colle&:e. SohenectaLiy. N. Y. =-:ational Advertising Hep1·esentative: ~ational Ad~ertising Service, Inc.. College Publishers Represent at ivP. 42~ Mad!· son AvP., ~. Y f\\\1 Why have the terms sit-in. demonstration, Edllor•ut ornee, L>lct Gym, u\\\' vol· 1 draft resistance, New Left, Student Power, leg.,, Puullcatiun orn~e. Schenectady · 1 l Movement etc. become the motifs of the l'••ntin,; e::umvany, ~u~ 131'0ndway. young and discontented? Not withstanding Entered in tile t;d•enectudy l'mll or- I the drop-outs (that's another article), why flee as ~ec·on<l Class ~{all ~latlt'l'. 1 have We all become SO poignantly aware Of Subscrh>tion t:.c a w 1 .y; $3 a year the forces that control and destroy us dcl!Vei·eJ anywhere in tlte l'nltE'<I I and the ills that SUrroUnd US? :<tat\\· Atmosphere ~~~NIOR BoARn Granted, the atmosphere described may JOSI•:t•H A. :II A:-::-;. JI:. ·.;,.. .. . .. 37~-41:;; E•litor-in·Chief be more than a little remote from Union JOEL RUBE::-:zAHL. 'GL....... ::77-91.111 Business Manager ' College, but .it is prevelant enough to have NEll. ::l. Kit.uum '7\ · ~ 46 · 3611 ~lllna~<ing Editor> ' caught the fancy of the mass media; that ·RICHARD llALAGl'R 'GU ............... ·· ...... 3 -; 4 • 7418 · ....................... News Editor I often disconcerting but perversely delightful ALAN ZIEGL!CR. 'GD ................................ 374·7418 ............... High Society Editor . f d . h CLIFF sAFA:-:E '69 ................................... 37~·9<30 ....................... Featur<>s Editor consp1racy o wor · s and 1m ages t at tells GAHY l'HE\'O>'T ·,;!• 3U:l-7~H .. .. ..... >:ports Editor us what we are thinking. ,J.c:sroR BOARn It wasn't always the way it is now. But Richard Patte•son·. Jr. '70 .. . Associate :>:ews I~ditor · behind the .facade of Dwight Eisenhower Dick Daniel '70 ........... .. . ..... Photography Editor and greasy rock and roll songs, we can Rte,·o Fnx • 70 ........ · ·····••s't I•'t•atur•es Editor discern the antecedent of the current pro- LI:'n ~imnn ° ~.II ..\SHnda·tt> !4vorts I•~llitUl\ test movement. Peter llrotman '·G~t ___ :--:ational Adverti::ling :Manager Bill lllumenthal 'Gfi. . ............ Ass't Business :\Ianager Remember walking in downtown Man- Stephen Littman '70.... .. ......................... Subscription :\Ianager hattan se'veral years ago and seeing the Carl Goldsand '70 ........................................................................... Circulation Manager beatnik carrying the \Ban the Bomb'' sign. Larry Rothhloom ·;o .................................................................... Distribution Manager Sure, you remember: the guy with the funny STAFF nm~mERS little button. You remember thinking, \Oh NEWS: ;:.;eal Goruon, Bill Bn•lman, Hal !toss. Stephen Glanzrock. YOU stud, YOU, you're just carrying that FEA'l'L'RES: scott Siegler. sign so you can soak up all the free love SPOR'l'S: Ht>nr·y Fein, Jay Blitzman that goeS with it.\ SEGREGATION! \Class identity\ is a worthless term in the context of a college community. It is worthless because a particular class (Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, Senior) needs no identity. · The fact that some people at the College utilize the· concept of fostering a \class identity\ to justify the isol~­ tion of the Freshman class changes the assessment of th1s term from \worthless\ to \dangerous.\ The danger exists in the possibility that the Freshman class will live forever apart from the rest of the students so that an identity crisis will not develop. Concordiensis feels that a healthier atmosphere for student development would result from the integration of Freshman and upperclass housing. Under the present sys- tem, the physical division between these two groups can- not help but encourage a divisive student temper. By hous- ing Frosh and uppreclassmen in the same dormitories, this dichotomy would no longer exist; instead of disjoining parts of the student body, we would be providing more Well, if you're from the Tri Cities Area and you never saw that guy, then you certainly remember seeing the cartoon of him in \The New Yorker\ or \Playboy.\ \Ban the Bomb,\ It got some publicity but never really made it. Embryo So then, what forces have taken this dubious embryo and metamorphasized it into such a booming and precocious dynamo? The Civil Rights movement of the early sixties had something to do with it; the Freedom Rides and the sit-ins captured the romantic fancies of many. But it was only a .select, courageous few that actually par- ticipated. Most college students played the \respectable\ game and the closest they got to the action was singing \We Shall Over- come\ at an integrated party. The real stimulus that precipitated the massive protest movements was nothing less than the stark, grimy mushrooming reality of the Vietnam war that began to loom grotesquely on the moral horizons of many a young person. The \ban the bomb\ move- ment, worthy as it was, had just been too nebulous and inccmceivable to prompt Amer- ican pragmatists to drop their school books and jump into the protest bog. The possi- bility that billions might be sent up in smoke was not able to do what the tangible reality of thousands being most definitely killed could do: inspire people to action. Paradoxes It is unfortunate that Americans waited for the trouble to start and had to react instead of acting and averting the trouble, but anyway, here we were with a clear cut cause that could be supported on moral, legal, military, or political grounds (ac- cording the tastes of the individual). The insanity of the government placed in th.e hands ·Of the radicals all the ammunition they needed to escalate their own war. It is amusing and certainly paradoxical to think of old Superbird Johnson as the great progenitor of the New Left, but life, especially politica:t life, is full of paradoxes. {It is no less paradoxical that the war has caused Senator Fulbright to become so con- cerned about the government spending great sums of money on the war and neglecting our \explosive\ cities, especially when Mr. Fulbright in the past has been \so con- cerned\ with our explosive cities that he has habitually voted against all civil rights legislation.) Political Awar~n~ss Vietnam served as an open sesame for the political awareness of many. In fact, it has rivaled LSD as a consciousness-ex- pander. It was only natural that as people got more and more informed about Vietnam they woald begin to see that government officials can be masters of hyperbole and embroider statements in such a way as to m.ake Herod look like Honest Abe. You began reading \Ramparts\ and \The New Republic\ to check out the latest war crimes in Vietnam and cpuldn't help glanc· ing at the other articles and learning of the despicable conditions of the ghettoes. A-nd the SDS people along side you at the Peace March could always be counted on to tell you about the ta;x tricks that the big corporations use. From then on it was nat-- ural to realize that your immediate en- vironment was lacking, so you began fighting for student power, where results were more tangible. The true test of the awareness of today's youth will come when the War is over. Will everybody re-cacoon themselve~ and hiber- nate until the next crises, or have we en- tered upon the threshold of a \protest society\? To tile Editor:. Being a candidate for the office of Presi- dent of the Class of 1971, I would like to takd thls opportunity to state some of my views. '1 have been enthused by the spirit of our Freshman Class. It is obvious that our Freshman Class has a great desire to work· t ')gether constructively. For the most part, the rules and regula, tions, here at Union, are compatible with the needs of the student to lead a meaning. l ul life. However, I sincerely believe there are some changes which should be made. In any commanity of inter-est, we will be c mfronted with diverse .personalities, There- fore to create a more natural environment at Union and to enrich our learning experi- ence, more of the ex:tta-curricular organiza- tions ·on campus should be made co-educa- tional, working in .conjunction with similar groups from Skidmore, Albany-State, .and Russell Sage. Many students have shown a desire to engage in informal :athletics as a release from their studying. Unfortunately, school policy dictates that the facilities are open only during the day. Consequently, I would like to have the gym. open until 11 P.M. during the week. Presently, housing units are permitted three social hour extensions each term. An increase in this number W()Uld greatly bene- fit the social environment at Union. Addi- tionally, l would like the first floor lounge in West College to :be open to visitors twenty-four hours a day. I sincerely believe the Freshman Class ,can and must work together to enact these ch1ngcs and others. I would like the oppor- tunity to organize and initiate these and ether changes and .to insure dynamic, con- st•. uctive leadership of our class. r ask for your support for the office of President of the Class of 1971. Dollald A. Kessler Class of 1971 I CREATIVE' WRITING \ Students interested in taking Mr. Gado 's creative writing course in the winter term are reminded that they may do so only with the permission of the instructor. Those cur- rently registered in the course and those who may be interested in electing it should submit a p~Jssage of descriptive prose not to exceed 1500 words as a basis for entry. . Samples must be submitted to Mr. Gado by i Thursday, November 9. opportunities to engender a sense of community. Immediately the question arises: \Although Freshmen stand to learn a great deal from living with upperclassmen, what upperclass student in his right mind would live in a Freshman dorm, even if each floor houses only a few Frosh ?\ The answer is expensively simple: make the Fresh- LUIGI'S RESTAURANT KNAPP SERVICE LTD. man dorms attractive to upperclassmen. . SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American FoOII 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar 1000 State St., Sch'dy 12307 - Dl 6-5900 VOLKSWAGEN & IMPORT· PARTS & SERVICE Redecoration is expensive, but so are the other alterna- tives. The $30 million development program will hopefully provide enough money to redecorate the Freshman slums so that Fox. and Davidson will not seem so splendorous in comparison, but this answer lies too many dollars hence. More immediate suggestions are these: 1) convert many 'of the double rooms in Frosh dorms into singles for upper-l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i========================: classmen (the housing problem that this would create can be mitigated by Off-Campus Housing, by now a familiar theme) or 2) offer upperclassmen a reduction in room rent for living in the present Freshman dorms. We urge the administration to draft a \unified\ hous- ing plan for Union dormitories as soon as possible. Inertia will surely inspire frenzied protests from upperclass stu- dents; but the change in this direction must be made if Union is to move from \good\ to \great.\ Sick Spirit The incidents of Freshman hazing reported last week are alarming and anuseating. Such behavior indiciates that the old but sick spirit of Freshman-Sophomore (or Frosh-Upperclass) rivalry still pe:psi£ts, despite this newpaper's hopes to the contrary. To a casual observer, class rivalry and hazing may appear to be nothing more than harmless, good-natured and \tradi- tional\ forms of amusement. Some reflection should yield a more realistic view of these activities. In the first place, hazing and vigorous Frosh-Upper- class rivalry assume a basic inferiority among the Fresh- men and tend to encourage disrespect for these students as a group : Fresh are considered an unproven, undignified and haughty group which will be accepted only after prov- ing its worth. (much the same as a fraternity initiation) \Acceptance\ comes after plodding through Union for a year, enduring the occasional jeers of upperclassmen and bearing the (fortunately) less frequent hazing, such as some Frosh experienced this Fall. This sort of attitude, a watered-down version of the \spirit\ which flourished among misguided upperclassmen some three or four years ago, strikes us as repugnant. Freshmen will \prove them- selves\ at Union by growing to become \thoughtful gen- erous and wise\ individuals, to use the words of President Martin. The~ will pr~-ye not~ing _but their n~ivete .b~ o~ei-/ sance to a sick trad1tion which Impedes their asstrmlation into the community and strips them of the dignity that is properly theirs as Union students. Furthermore, hazing and class rivalry encourage. an ; atmosphere most unsuited to college life. The facu1ty seeks, to instill an appreciation for study and contemplation amon.g · students; hazing and class competition are clearly anta- gonistic to these goals. Happily, the number of students who took part in . hazing activities this year was small; Concordiensis hopes that the distorted sense of \tradition\ which motivated· such muffleheaded behavior will not cloud student thinking · in the future. YOU'RE A BLOCK AWAY Old Dutch Restaurant FROM THE FINEST SELECTION OF WINE, LIQUORS, AND CORDIALS OUTSIDE NEW 'YORK CITY. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK WALK DOWN • • . OR CALl US PHIL ENGLEHARDT'S A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices CHECKS CASHED ••. 511 UNION STREET ••• FR 2-4788 1617 Union St. Phone 374-5770 CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 Union St. FR 7-1283 Frames and Lenses Replaced Prescriptions Filled 424 State Street Schenectady, New York PERSONAl: Will the young lady who parked her red convertible in front of the library last Friday with two cases of Genesee Beer in the back, pl:ease pick up th·e empties? G~N, BREW. CO,,ROCtL, N.Y. Saturday, th ball team jourJ looking for t However, the r . Rochester viet, In the first gridders were lish an effect at the half t trailing 14-0. ' started with a1 score. With th at 20-0, the ga of reach. But t back, sparked trander's long Yellow Jacket Quattez w ga lg 0 a. l 0 b. 1 0 c. I\ Can't ar a) or b) changes scene. B regardin ... just: Take turns yo most of arrive 1: board, o; the way And bac day's bu In sh4 much oJ much. E Western oly unit We pi

to my of our work· with there e. be nment and to school open would 1 P.M. An y bene- Addi- lounge visitors Class these oppor- and con- ask for of Kessler 1971 Gado's term with cur- those should not entry. Gado by nt Thursday, November 2, 1967 '71 Gridders Lose, 33-15 Saturday, the freshman foot- ball team journed to Rochester, looking for theier first win. However, the result was a 33-15 Rochester victory. to end Dan Gould f()r another T.D. Dispelling any notions of vic- tory the Garnet might have had, Rochester took control of the game by scoring two more Frosh Harriers Win; Prep For State Meet In the first half, the frosh touchdowns and placing sus- &y HENRY FEIN gridders were unable to estab- tained pressure on the Garnet lish an effective attack, and offensive line, while :piqking off The Union freshman cross at the half the Garnet were three passes. The frosh, as in country team continued its trailing 14-0. T·he second half the .previous losses, won on the winning ways last Thursday, started with another Rochester field too o'ften, and could not outrunning 'Trinity 19-39, to fin- score. With the count standiag carry the disproportionate lead. ish the dual meet season with at .29-0, the game appeared out The :frosh gridders, who now a 2-2 record. The varsity har- ·Of reach. But the Garnet fought stand 0~3, close their season en riers, however, lost to Trinity 18- back, sparked by Jerry Os- Saturday meeting R.P.I. oa Alex- 37 and to Hamilton 16-47 to wind .trander's long run of a short ander Field at 1:30. The Engi- uo their season without a win. Yei.low Jacket field ,goal at- neers hold .a decision over Wil- The frosh travel to Le Moyne Quarterback: Dan Kirk- Iiams as the highlight to their Saturday to compete in the New witll .a ;long bomb season th11s far. York .State championships. ------------~----~-------------------------------- I won't go into business when I gl'aduale because: 0 a. I'd lose rny individuality. D b. It's graduate school for me. D c. My mother wants me to be a doctor. Can't argue with c), but before you check a) or b)-pencils up! There have been some changes. Drastic changes in the business scene. But changes in the vo.x populi attitude regarding business ... especially on campus ... just haven't kept pace. Take th.e belabored point that business turns you into a jellyfish. The men who run most of the nation's successful :firms didn't ardve by nepotism, by trusting an Ouija board, or l>y agreeing with their bosses. Along the way, a well•modulated \No\ was said. And backed up with the savvy and guts to- day's business demands. In short, individuality is highly prized in much of the business world-the successful much. Even when the business is big, Like Western Electric, the manufacturing and sup- oly unit of the Bell System. We provide communications equipment for our Bell System teammates, the Bell telephone companies. This takes a lot of thought, deci- sions, strong stands for our convictions, (and sometimes some mistakes ... we're human, every 160,000 of us). , , Individuality pays off. Not only in raises, but in personal reward as well. Like an engi- neer who knew deep down that there was a better way to make a certain wire connector -and did. Or a WE gal who streamlined time- consuming office procedures, and saved us some $63,000 a year. Rewards and accolades. For saying \N:o.\ For thinking creatively and individually. For doiDg. Not every hour is Fun Hour, but if you've g()t imagination and individl:fality-you've got it made. With a business like Western Electric. We\ll even help you answer b) with our Tui- tion Refund program. Come on in and go for President! riii\ Wt!ottrn Electric \:!!!!::/ MANUFACTURING &SUPPLYUNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM Taking top frosh honors was Garnet harrier Joe Burgess, with a sparkling 15:19;3 clock- ing. He trailed Trinity's John Durland most of the race but passed him for grod on' the \home stretch.'' Durland fin. ished in 15:24. John Braham the R.P.I. meet winner, took third in 15:29. Bill Walker won fourth spot in 15:33. Bill Daw~ son and Steve Basse! ran to- .!!ether near the front most of the race. and fi.nished fifth and sixth. Their tirr.es were 16:03 and 16:05, respectively. Trinity's Bill Shortell took the top varsity sp_ot in 25:28. Cap- tam Myron Fnbush led the Gar- net with a fifth-place finish timed in 27:29. Carl Thumni was sixth, while Pete Ericson won seventh. Ron Ruhl finished ninth and Charles Evans took tenth. Booters Finish Season Win, 6-1 &y DAN ANGELO The Union fresh soccer team evened its season at 3 wins and 3 losses after running over Ho- bart 6 to 1 Saturday in Geneva. Goalie Mike Pitt starred as he turned in his best effort of the season Qgainst the tough Hobart offense. Time and time again in the first and fourth quarter he was forced to come out and personaHy break up a potential scoring play, But it was the fine play of wings Bobby Dodd and Fred Mindlin, insides Steve Berrick:, Keven Coyne and Bill Porter, and halfbacks Chris , Swan and Furry Scialdone that put the frosh on the scoreboard. In the first period, after a slug- gish start partly due to a driv- ing hail storm, the young Dutchmen's potent offense got moving. Bobby Dodd sped tow- ard the goal and on two occas- ions scored off of lead passes from Berrick and Dodd respec- tively. The second half also started, slowly for the frosh but they were again saved by Pitt's brilliant goal play. Hobart gave it all they had in the third pe- riod but they couldn't crack Pitt as he shut them out. Hobart5s onJy goal came in the fourth period off of the second team goalie after Pitt had left the game with an injured knee. The last quarter witnessed a resurg- ence in the fresh's offense. Dodd scored his third goal of the game after Swan had passed to him. Ten minutes later Berrick booted in the fourth Union goal which was followed up only 22 seconds later by a Fred Mindlin goal. Mindlin closed out liis rookie year as tile team's lead~ ing scorer with 5 goals. Then Berrick netted the final goal of the day of another Swan assist. ~illiCIIIl!i • • • Continued from Page 6 Rochester 13-12, Middlebury 29-3, Bowdoin 10-0, and Tufts ~ 30-22. Prior to the Tufts game Wil- liams had moved almost entirely on the ground, putting the ball in the air only 40 times in the first four games. Sophomore tailback Jack Matitland has been the workhorse, carrying 148 times for 661 yards, a 4.5 average. Fullback John Petke ' has carried 32 times for 374 yards. His thirteen-yard run as he shut them out. Hobarts yards and an 11.0 average. Quar- 1 terback Charlie Bradbury had ! thrown only 31 passes in the first four games but he com- pleted 13 of 20 including 12 to Randy Dygert in that game. The Ephmen defense is an- ' chored by junior linebacker Ross Wilson. This 200 pounder leads a defense which allowed 240 yards per game, but an average of only 10 points per contest. Union rePresents just an- other game on the Williams schedule, and the Garnet have the advantage of facing the Epbmen just before they take on their Little Three opponents. This would indicate that the Ephmen may be looking past Union. In the past Williams has prevailed because they were a vastly superior team. Such is not the case in 1967. 5 Player of the Week Ken Pearce Sophomore 'Ken Pearce played only sparing:ly in the gridder's first three ga:tnes, but given a opportunity to .start in the RP.I. game, he has u.s.ed his chance well in the :)ast two weeks. Against Hobart, Pearce had a field day, completing 20 of 32 passes for 295 ~a:rds and four touchdowns. Tlle four T.D. passes equall-ed. Tom Hitch- cock's recor-d: performance against Hamilton in 1965. The yardage total ·was just 27 off Hickcock's all time record of 322. On the ~e~r, Pearce has completed 4~ of 69 passes ( 61% ) , and bas thrown nine T.D. passes. Pearce perfo~ned well Satur- day on rollouts. and sprintouts, and also ran the ball seven times for a tdoal gain of 28 yards. His .tllirteen-yard run was instrumental in the first T.D. drive. Three Frats Take lntras Beta Theta Pi, Delta Phi, an-d Chi Psi have won their respec- tive divisions in this fall's in- tramural competition. E a~h clinched their title with 5-0 records. The Betas defeatt>d Phi Sigma Delta 25-0 Tuesday to win the East. Delta Phi clinched the Northern title by beath1g Phi Sigma Kappa 21-6 Oct()ber For Rugged 25. Chi Psi won the Southern Division by vjrture of a 35-0 whipping of F1ox and a 47-0 victory over Delta Chi. Both these victories .came before the recent competition, with the Fox victory on October 18, and the Delta Chi triumph the fol- lowing Tuesda:y, The three vic- tors will meet in a soon-to-be- announced p!ay()ff. .. .. ® Amerie11's Original Jeans FROM 4.98 DAVE'S Open Thurs. & Fri. 'till 9 P.M. 453 State Str.eet FR 4-9609

Hazing Page 4 Concordy Sports Evolrev Page 4 Aerial Attack S\'amps Statesmen~, 37-15; Un,defeated Williams Next Grid Roadblock Continued from Page 1 age could not contain him. 'The first ~core came on a r64-yard drive of 16 plays. With the run- ning game stalled, and the de- fense concentrating on Swan Carlson, Pearce hit Monahan with a nine yard scoring pass. Art Jacobs added the extra point. After the defense stymied Ho- bart's first offensive ser.ies, the offense took over on the visitors 48. On the first play from there, Pea,rce hit Carlson wit_h a sideline pass, and the sh1fty wingback eluded one Statesman and raced all the way for the score. Hobart then managed to move the ball deep into Union terri- tory, but with the aid of an il- legal receiver penalty, the drive was thwarted. Again the Garnet marched down the field, only to fumble away the ball at the Hobart 12. The next drive went to the Hobart 5 where a holding penalty slowed down the Gar- net, and an interception Lly Chuck Tanney killed the scoring opportunity. With all these opportunities belng rebuffed, it appeared that Union would enter' the locker ro<>m with a 14-0 lead when it t.()o k possession at the Hobart <1:6 with less than a minute to go i.11 the first half. However Pearce and Carlson hooked up again on a kmg gainer to the visitors two yard line. With only three sec- onds remaining, Pearce then hit Sw <Ill with a down-and-out for the score. That TD reception vva:s the seventh for Swan this seas()n, breaking the previous re~ord of six held by Art Mar- shalL At the outset ()f the third per-·i()d the Garnet upped thelr n1argin to 28-0 as Bauer inter- cepted near midfield and went all the way. However this put the defense right back on the field with almost no rest, and they succumbed to the first Ho- bar-t scoring drive, capped by Perkin's dash fvom four yards aw:~y. The long layoff seemed to C()Ol off the offense, as they failed to sustain a drive in the t.hil'd period. Early in the fouz:tp quarter Hobart again drove for a score, this one coming on i fourth down, one yard lunge by Perkins. A two point conversion brought the score to 23-15, and the Garnet needed some insur- ance. They got it fro.m the toe of Jacobs, as he booted a 32- yard field goa,! with two mir.- utes remaining in the game. Wmen Fran Piscitelli inter- cepted a pass at his own 42, the stage was set for the last bit .of fireworks of th.e day. Pearc.: ralled out wide and deep, then ran up to the line of scrim- mage, stopped just short and fired a long strike to Carlson with 45 seconds remaining in the game. Reserve running hack Dennis Moffitt is still hobbled by an ankle injury and is doubtful for Williams. Another casualty is linebacker John Duffy, who was injured early in the Hobatr game. Safety Steve Ciesinski. has a hip injury which may sideline him also. Rounding back into shape for the Garnet is Jim Sabella, a sophomore place-kicker and defensive back who broke his ankle in presea- son workouts. 4-0-lEphmen ·roBe Tough The Union-Williams football rivalry dates back to 1887. In 1889 the Garnet suffered an ignomious 130,0 defeat and nore recenfy have not defeatect, the Ephmen since 1956,. when a ~0- 14: upset win helped the Dutchmen to achieve a 6-2 rec- ord, their last winning season. Overall the two schools have met 57 times since that date and the Garnet have come away victorious only 14 times. Booters Finish With 4-4-2 Record As if in retribution for the 1956 defeat, the Ephmen hung a 65-0 .~:hellacking on the Gar- net in 1957 to inaugurate the tea year losing streak. However, the Garnet have given the Eph- n:en a strange challenge in each of the past three years, having led a halftime in all three contests. Strong second half rallies buried the Dutchmen 48-27 in 1964 and 27-12 in 1966, but it was a 28-27 defeat in 1£65 whicth dug the deepest. Leading 27-14 with only six minutes remaining on the strength of Tom Hitchcock's finest day (30 for 50 and 322 yards), the Garnet attempted to pl;~y ball control and lost the ball twice to Wililams. Both times the Ephmen scored touch- downs, the clincher coming on a pass off a double reverse. To Post B~st Season Since 1958 The Garnet boaters, under the first year diretcion of Gary Brown, compelted their most successful season since 1958 by dividing a pair of road games last weekend, A 3-1 loss at Rochester followed by a 2-0 win over Alfred left the Dutchmen with a final record of 4:-4-2. The 1967 Williams squad is 4-0-1, one of the only ejght unbeaten teams in Eastern foot- ball. They are ranked sixth in ECAC Division II, as compared to Union's eighth in the next lower division_ After opening with a 13-13 time with Trinity, the Ephmen have downed Continued on Page 5 Scoreboard & Schedule Next Week's Games Fo<>tball Saturday: Union at Williams WRUC aod WSNY Play-by-play 1 ,30 R.P.l. at Union (F) Ale><ander Field lt30 A strong 6-2 Rochester squad prevented the Garnet from gain- ing the best soccer record. in the historv of the school. Con- sistently beating the Dutchmen to the ball in the first half, the Yellow-jackets sparked by fine center-half Bob Kelly built a 2-0 lead. Play i nt he second half was fairly even, with the Gaarnet avoiding a shutout on Bob Okello's fourth period goal. On Saturday, the Garnet com- pletely outclassed a 3-5 Alfred team which had entered the 1967 season with a 14-game los- ing streak but had won thFee of their last four prior to their encounter with the Garnet. By outshooting the Saxons 2B-7 the S eraic>r Captain Ting Pau Oei, cited by Coach Brown for his leadership, battles for the ball against Hamilton Last Week's Results fo<>lball Uoioo 37, Hobart 15 Rochester 33, Union (F) 15 CZ.ar-net forwards helped reserve g«Jalies Craig Barger and Chris ~arisonas to produce the third slmtout of the year, the most ,e-vn by a Union team. Union g«Jals were scored by Ting Pau Oei and Bob Okell(). Mother Ferre's Restaurant Specializing in lta/ie~ra- American food Discount for U11ion Stude.,ts 20c on the doll or PI Z:Z A. Free Parking Dl 6·955A 1 l 15 Barrett St. ZELLMER'S NORGE l.AUND RY AND C L~ANING V IL I..AG f AT 1 ~59 VAN VRANI<EN A'WE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. -----------$2.00 12Lb. ------------ .25 4 Lb. Min.-------- l.OO 20Lb. ------------ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. ------------ .50 10 Min. _. ___ ----- - .1 0 OPES - 8 A.M. to 1& I\.M. Moll. tcJ, Fri. - Sat. 8 A.l\1. to 5 P.M. 10 A.M. to 6 l';l'\1. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD t>IO~GE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU !IV'ILI. liE AMAZED Mama Bianchi's :I MillTOWN BARBER I Fine Italian & American Food : SHOP Open Sunday ' STARTING OCT. 31 Special Tues. & Thurs: . ' AI.J liaircuts to be done by Spaghetti & Meatballs with • Appointment from Tues. thru Salad and Coffee-$1.00 'fri. Appointmenrs not neces~ ! sary Sat. 1135 BarreH St. 515 UNION ST. Private Banquet Room 377·4010 I Coach Brown was especially pleased with the manner in which the Garnet finished up the season, having a 3-1-2 record and outscoring their opponents 13-6 in the last six games. I L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, :\J.Y. 13210 I Soccer Rochester 3, Union 1 Union 2, Alfred 0 Union {F) 6, Hobart I Cross Country Trinity 18, Union 37 Hamilton 16, Union 47 Union {F) 19, Trinity 39 THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 11 8 - 1 20 JAY STREET there's one place that does it! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset e Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Rings· Sized • Engraving • Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES _ ---ll_ \V JkWELRY U..t..I COMPANY 315 State Street. SchenBctady FR 4·8219 Club Sports: Who, 's Responsibility? By GARY PREVOST 0!1 October 17, the Tax Committee decided that it would no, longer provide student .funds for intramural groups wh.ose activities extended to ,the intercollegiate level. Four can1pus organizations were affected by the decision-the Uo.ion College Bowling Club, the ski dub, the rugby club, and the sai:ling club. 'The Union College Bowling Club is two years old, and is an outgvowth of the Dutch Classic League, which at present has fifty members. 'The only club of the four with outside revenue, the Bowling Club has requested $200 h:>lll the 'Tax Committee to pay for entry fees and travel ex}Jenses. The ski club is an outgrowth of the Outing Club, and has been competing intercollegiately for two :ye~rs. For 1.967-68, the club requested $460, needing $400 to C!>mpete in three ski meets. The rugby club had its first intetcoHegiate .competition last spring, and has already held one contest this fall, with another scheduled. The club has approximately thirty members, and requested $5(]0 from the tax committee. The sailing club began com- petition last spring, and competed in three events. Since the group has its own equipment, it requested $250 from StudEnt TaK, all for travel and entr:r fees. 'The tax committee was of the feeling that such activi- tie-s should be financed by the athletic department with the committee having no responsibility in the area. \lhe Tax Committee made the policy decision without actually investigating club sports and the implications of bJ:inging them into the athletic department, nor did they investigate the position of club sports on any other campuses. Club sports are basically an informal operation in w!.ic .h students involved control their affairs (schedules, p1:actice times, etc.), and are simply searching for mone- tary help to cover entry fees and travel expenses to com- pete under the name of Union College. The organizations ha-v.e no desire to come under the athletic budget, because they would have to be supervised strictly, have set sched- ules, and abide by strict eligibility rules. A survey of other schools in Union's classs (Alfred, Hamilton, Hobart, St. Lawrence, Clarkson, R.P.I., and R() cluster) shows that corresponding clubs at these schools are usually supported by student funds. R.P.I. is a typical case: Sailing, water polo, fencing, and skiing clubs are fina11ced enti~ely by student activity funds. Supervision of lhe noney is provided by the athletic department. 'The Faculty Committee on Athletics, headed dby Pro- fessH Reed, has instructed the Student Tax Committee that it must take the responsibility for providing funds for- tlle club sports, stating that the athletic department c:annct and should not take over hese acivities. I feel that the Student Tax Committee must now go direetly to the administration, and be willing to go at least half. way toward providing financial support for the club sports in 1967-68. The best solution to the problem would be a club activities buddget, administered by the Athletic Director, as at R.P.I. l\'Ioney for the club budget would con1e from both the Student Tax Committee and the ad- mi:riistration. Funds would be distributed to the clubs for tlinel and entry fees only. Dill Named To ECAC-Union Eighth Sam :Dill was named as an end on the \1\leekly ECAC Division III All-Star team this week, as the Garnet moved up one place on the te-am ratings. The stellar defensive- end, who captains this year's gridders, has been named 1 to the team in past seasons, but this is his first mention this year. Also nominated were Steve Bauer, Ken Pearce, and Craig Carlson. l 1'be Proprietor has one, and the Gentleman can get one, by a visit to our s~ealer colle;-tion. Two_ of the most appealing cable kmts are depleted, 111 f1 nP. SIH'tlallll W()ollen. The line-up is extensive, nnd rc;Hiy now. The ~quirr ~4np ()PEN THURSDAY AND FRIDAY TILL 9 P.M. 326 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY Stude 300 ~ • Coun Vol. 97- The Ramsey . Fall Weeke pears Frida p.m. in Mei and the Al day at 8:00 Ramsey popularity \ of jazz. Arr \The In Cr and \Wade Lewis has b and has bee performers Mo1 More th ' 1 celebrities, : tended a rec day night f held at the l \ the round.\ lege directo1 wether, the inaugurate t son in gran( According catering ser food, the re 2000, but M of the Moun 1000 guests the receptim <a cess.\ Celebr TV's weathE of the Strat:l Festival, bu and Senato: who were in lmpr • Both studE the receptioJ ever attendaJ subject of n only 70 peo:r: night's perfc on Friday n has a capaci1 filled;

p ' vould roups Four -the club, l, and ch at ·with $200 travel luting r two $400 s first ready . The tested . COlli· Since from lctivi· with 1thout •ns of they other m in iules, none- com- 1tions cause ;ched· !fred, and :hools rpical s are on of ·Pro- llittee funds ment w go least club vould IJ.letic vould e ad· 1s for :h en named 1 1sons, but ttion this rere Steve md Craig £', st HI p ) ACC Approves Off-Campus PoHcy Cha.nge Students to ·be clllowed to live off cam,pus next year. 300 Students .may seek new priviliges College anticipates 70 will live off campus. Seniority .Coupled With Selecti_Q:n By Lottery By NEIL S. KRAMER Council also recommends thct chaperones no longer :be required. The All Cellege ~.Councii legislated happiness for about seventy students last night as it established the selec- ticm procedure for . determining who will be allowed to live off campus next year. The Council also released living units from the responsibility of having chaperones and social host· esses at evening affairs, and discussed the reincarnation of a student publica- tions lJoard. To fill the remaining places, a lottery would be held in the then Junior class. In the event that seniors do not fill all the places, a similar lottery wiU take .place in the then Sophomore class. Students Desire The Council postulated that the indi· vidual's own outlook determined the desire to live off-campus and that seniority, first and then chance, were· the only fair ways to decide who would live off campus making a value judgement. Founded at Union College 1877 Dean Pollock expressed the desire of the ACC when he said \We want all students to be able to see the policy clearly and eliminate loopholes .so that everyone has an equal oppor- tunity ·to live off campus.\ Since as many as three hundred students might seek some of the seventy esti- mated .off campus openings, the fol- lowing hierarchy was established: The Council's xeport went on to recommend to the Trustees that the College not commit itself to further housing on campus until there is a demonstrated student need for such housing. The renovation of North Col· lege as a dormitory was .closely tied to this statement. In unanimously approving the dis· establishment of chaperones, the All College Council accepted identical pro· posals submitted by the UIC, IFC, and Student Council. The lone exception. is the requirement that a social host· ess be present when women are stay. ing overnight. Vol. 97- No. 8 SCHENECTAI>Y, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, ·1967 PRICE 15 CENTS 1. The status of married students living with their wives and commu- ters would not change. Ra.msey Lewis Head<lines ·Fall Wee.kend 2. Students age 23 and over would not be restricted by a residence policy. 3. Students who exhibit financial need by working .for their room. 4. Students not on Disciplinary Pro- bation, on a seniority basis, first pref- erence going to fifth year students in the 5 year combined AB-BE program. and thence to Seniors, Juniors, and· Sophomores. No Chaperones 5. Freshman will still not be allow- ed to ·live off campus. The 8ouncil felt that the first three grouos and 5 year men should be required to express their intentions to the Dean of Students Office before a particular deadline. Dick Amesbury explained that \the chaperones we have are expensive and ineffective.\ They tend to be functionless when extended parietal hours exist. Amesbury noted that the money which is now spent on chaperones. would probably be redirected in most cases to hiring 'Btuns Agency guards. Continued on Page 3 Schenectoga Circle WRUCS All Night By CARL DIETZ WRUC, Union-Skidmore Radio, is now broadcasting all night with the help of the \nameless all night man.\ The sounds of Ramsey lewis will highlight this term's entertainment extr.avaganza, Fell Weekend orgy. \Nameless\ is sensittve to being called a \juke box,\ because he is much more sophisticated. Not only does he have a job with a private station, but he can also piay a series of records automatically and dis- perse plugs for himself and the station in between. His duties began two weeks ago and he runs from 1 A.M. to 7 A.M. every night. At the present he devotes most of his spare time to reviewing the en- trees in a contest being conducted to give him a name. Any one with a suggestion should send or drop it off at the station. A name which catches \nameless's\ fancy will win for its originator a couple ticket to Fall weekend. Ramsey Lewis will headline the Fall Weekend activities when he ap- pears Friday night, Nov. 17, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Jr. Walker and the All-Stars will appear Satur- day at 8:00. Ramsey Lewis has gained great popularity with his unique new style of jazz. Among his biggest hits are \The In Crowd,\ \Hang on Sloopy,\ and \Wade in the Water.\ Ramsey Lewis has breathed new life into jazz and has become one of the few jazz performers to maintain a mass audi- ence. Lewis has formed a bridge be- tween rock and jazz. His adaptations of .rock and roll songs form the great- est part of his material, but he also performs pure jazz material. He is a great favorite with audiences wher- e\l\er he performs. Lewis made his concert debut at the Music Hall in Houston in October of 1956 before an audience of 3,000 persons. Even though the audience was not particularly attentive, his light fingered jazz produced spontane- ~l.Is head nodding, foot tapping and Mountebanks Reception College Extravaganza: More than :300 theatre-goers, ' 1 celebrities, faculty, and students at- tended a reception in Hale House Fri- day night following 3 one-act plays held at the Nott Memorial \theatre in the round.\ According to Union Col- lege director of drama William Meri- wether, the reception was held \to inaugurate the Union theatrical sea- son in grand fashion.\ According to Gershon's, the local catering service which prepared the food, the reception was planned for 2000, but Mike Halperson, president of the Mountbanks asserted that only 1000 guests were expected and that the reception was \a marvelous suc- cess.\ Celebrities ranged from WRGB- ~a TV's weather girl to the president of the Stratford Ontario Shakespeare Festival, but Governor Rockefeller and Senators Javits and Kennedy, who were invited, did not attend. . - Impressive Reception .., Both students and faculty termed the reception very impressive. How- ever attendance at the plays was the subject of much controver.sy, With only 70 people present for Thursday night's performance .and about 170 on Friday night, the theatre, which has a capacity of about 200, was not filled~ By RICHARD P A 'TTERSON, JR. 'l'he college does not yet know the total amount of money spent on the reception held last Friday night in l!a.le House after tbe Mountebanks' )Jerformances. Who will pay the bill is also undecided at this time. The reception, catered by Gershon~s Ueleicatessen of Schenectady, was J)lanned for 1000 people. Ham, turkey, caviar and assorted liquors were served. Gershon's stated that, figuring f1'om a base cost of $3.50 per person for the quality of food prepared and served for 1000 people the food bill for the reception would total approxi- mately $3500. Also, a bar and various chafing dishes and fountains were rented from other firms. It has been estimated that the cost of the recep- tion might approach $4200, although no total bill has yet been tabulated. Saga's Option Harold Richardson, Director of Saga Food Services, said that he under- st()od cQllege policy to be that when such events involving food service are held on campus, Saga is to receive first option to supply the. food. In this ease, Richardson noted, Saga was not notified. Invitations to attend the Friday evening penormance and the recep- tion were sent out Monday, .Oct. 30, accordin~ to the Mountebanks. It was Continued CJn Page 3 occasional applause. Beginning in midsummer of 196~ with a new group, he began a show of tastefully chosen tunes such as Du.:ke Ellington's \Satin Dolt\ Lewis' performance of \The In Crowd\ is signifi.cn~t of a new style of mixing jazz and .rock and roll. He also plays straight ja2z. His music is .]:)luE, sometimes, cool but always swinging a11d straight from the heart. The musical attack is clean, straight forward and Llllsophisticated -a basic style of modern jazz. Lewis excells in imparting what has been called \a free-wheeUnt;, come-join\the- party feeling.\ · The rest of the trio consists of Cleveland Eaton and Maurice White. .Eaton plucks out rhythm on the cello and White moves <>Ver the skins. Couple tickets are now on sale in dorms and fraternities for ten dollars. The increase in pl\ice is due to the rising cost of nam.e entertainment. The I.F.C. is spons()ring a sign con- test for advertising the Fall Weekend events. This is OI>en to all dorm units as well as fraternities. The living unit which creates the best poster will receive the cost of a keg of beer. Nameless owes his existence to Hu- man ingenuity and WRUC's drive for expansiim of its facilities. Grea'ter independence from school financial support this year has brought to light other sources of revenue. Though the profits from the AM sta- tion have increased over last years, the stations projected plans require extensive backing. Increased profits are due to more advertising accounts from Schenectady and Saratoga. Presently in operation is a cam- paign to put WRUC on the FM band, perhaps even in stereo. To run both the AM and the FM stations, addi- tional sttidios would have to be built along -with the aquisition of equip- ment, and a broadcasting tower. The immediate goal is to be licensed as a FM station; this requires extensive red tape. Godot Comes' I have read lV aitinig for Godot before, as a matter of fact, I've read it a few times .before. Until tonight though I've never seen it produced. There's a big difference, you know, between reading a play and· seeing it p1·oduced. (This <Jne is directed by Jeff DeMtmn, a junior, and the cast includes Kent Kraft, Phil Rice, Dave Van Denburgh, Mark Palmer, and Pete Feldstien.) '1'<> get back to the difference - when you read, you look at words and you imagine scenes: but when you view a production you see a set, its c:olor and form; you see lighting, its tone and quality; you see figures whicb move, make gestures, and carry themselves; and you also hear - voices, steps. scuffles, and what not. A script is read, but a play is an experience. Act One Despite the fact that Godot is one bitch of a play to .stage well, the experience of this production is magnificent. We meet head on with Beckett's creation. It i&' alive, moving, and dynamic. . First, the vi.su:al aspect of the play is one in which we encounter four figures dl.\'es.sed in dark drab clothing and set against a barren dry- mud colored bacl<ground. Their movements and spatial relationships are kept tighth ned and effective. There is also a weird moon which comes up in eac act and carries with itself a sort of uneasy, lonely feeling. Considering next the action of the play, its essential aspect, we find a somewhat cumllexsome first act, and it is not until the second act that the play reaches its highest level of performance. Act-One is, ill a purely mechanical sense. well executed, but on the whole could use nt()re spirit and energy. The very beginning is a bit slow. Continued on Page 5, Column 3 Yale Faculty To Abolish Grading Plan Special from the New York Time.s The faculty of 'Yale College voted Nov. 1 to abolish its numercial grad· ing system. Under the new plan, a five-year experiment that will begin next Jan- uary, teachers will choose among four designations for their students: fail, pass, high pass and honors. The vote, which followed months of study and debate here, gives Yale one of the least restrictive grading sys- tems in higher education in the United States. Numbers Imprecise It reflects a growing feeling among educators that a student's work can· not be measured with numerical pre- cision. \The point is that whether a marl gets a 72 or a 74 just doesn't reflect his performance, bis knowledge, or anything, really,\ said Prof. William Kessen, chairman of the Yale College Course of Study Committee, which had unanimously recommended the change. The change will be mandatory in Yale College, the 4,000-man under- graduate school, but does not affect students at the graduate level. With no precise grades, a Yale un- dergraduate will no longer have a meaningful grade average or a nu- merical standing in his class. Both of these statistics usually are sought by graduate schools. . Mar. Kessen, a professor of psychq- logy, said such absences were we~­ come. \It ought to lead to more stress in graduate admissions on thinks like meaningful letters of recommendation from the faculty,\ he said. Encourages Election Tentative moves .away from what one educator called \the excessive preoccupation with number or letter grades\ have been made at various colleges in recent years, but few of them go as far as the change at Yale. Proponents of the system enacted at Yale today have predicted that it will encourage the students to take more of the difficult courses.

2 Thursday, November 9, 1967 Bergn~an Fil1n Festival Enriches Contp. Ed. 20 HEAR YEI Buffy Sainte·Marie will appear at the Albany Armory at 8 p.m. on Fri- day, November 17 in a \blanket con~ cert.\ Tickets may be purchased at the door or at the campus center of Albany State University. They are priced at $1.50 a student. President of North Vietnam, with Premier Phan Van Dong, and many other Vietnamese. Fre·shmen Elect Miller President, Lakin Vice· P·res. •• o· By PAUL FARNIIAM Prof. Frank Gado is currently .pre- senting a series of seven Bergman films as part of the Comp. Ed. 20 course wh1ch he is teacb.ing this term. The aim of Gado's course is to show the evomt10n of man's perception of his sprntual place m his envuonment. Dunng the hrst four weeks, the class dealt with the phollsophrcal presenta- tion of thrs dnemma, us1ng sources from Descartes to the ex:1stentra1ists. With the introductiOn of ·Bergman mto the last six weeks ot the ·course, Gado hopes to show how existentialism has been used for artistic purposes. Ee- cause he believes that .Bergman is a philosophical film maker, Gado wants to present the means by which this person portrays man's spiritual di- lemma. The course is experimental in na- ture. Gado is trying to bring in new concepts to meet the ends of the Comprehensive Education program. The first four weeks have fallen short of his expectations for several reasons. The sheer size of the class-sixty-five students - makes it difficult to have meaningful discussions. :Many students have had little experience in philo- sophical methods of investigation. Volunteers Restore Chimes Several weeks ago, student volun- teers began resotrations on the chimes in Memorial ChapeL Acting on a story carried in Concordiensis fo_ur weeks ago, Ted Malone, Stanley Gulm, Fred Lax, and Bob Koepke, met with Professor Wursten, who is in charge of the clock and chimes. From him they learned the basic workings and intricacies of the chimes. With funds from the administration, spare parts, and work, they replaced clappers, chains, and hammers. By Saturday, October 28, Pete Smith was able to play the chimes for Home- coming. Assisting was Reginald Khar- manis. Though the initial restorations have been completed thanks to these stu- dents help, additional work should be done so that the chimes can be played automatically as well as manually. Gado hopes that the films will aid the students in their understanding of the material. He foresees changes in the course if he teaches it again In the future. These would include bring. ing in more literature and other writ- ers such as Kafka and Camus. Gado wants to continue using the films which are financed by the college. He may stay with Eergman or perhaps switch to Fellini. The Bergman films are being shown on Mondays at 3:30 p.m. and are re- peated on the following Wednesdays at 1:30 .p.m. Skidlets Break WAVE Recruiter. More than 250 students and faculty members staged a heated demonstra- tion against the presence of a Navy (WAVE) recruiter on the Skidmore College Campus, Thursday, October 26. Leading the protest, five faculty members and three students ad- dressed the demonstrators in virulent language outside of the Skidmore Recreation Center on the new cam- pus. The speeches were directed at Lt. Sandra Fulton, WAVE Recruiter. The most violent protest made was by Edward Grier, instructor of gov- ernment at Skidmore. Grier called it \a moral outrage to bring such a woman on campus.\ He urged stu- dents to \resist the administration of Skidmore College and the United States government.\ \When one can- not find satisfaction for his grievance within the framework of the law,\ Grier said, \it is perfectly all right to step outside it.\ The demonstra- tion was followed by picketing out- side the College Administration Build· in g. Commenting on the disturbance, President of the College Joseph Pala- mountain said he was \pleased to see policy discussed,\ but questioned that \this is the best form of meaningful dialogue.\ The demonstration and protest, which received regional television coverage, was accompanied by a small group of counter-pickets who carried American flags and distributed \Go Navy\ stickers to the crowd. Orientation Man . She is a noted American Indian folksinger with established hits in • her albums \It's My Way,\ \Many a Mile,\ \Little Wheel Spin and Spin,\ and \Fire Fleet and Candlelight.\ Woody Allen and The Lovin' .Spoon- ful will appear in concert at the R.P.I. Fie~d House on Friday, November 10 at 8:30 p.m. as part of the R.P.I. Military Weekend. Ticket information can be obtained frm the Fie'd Hou'5e; 270-6262. Woody Allen is one of the leading . comedians of today, consistently on demand on television and in night c~ubs. He wrote and acted in the exceptionally successful film, \What's New Pussycat?\ The Spoonful are noted for their Nashville and good times sound. They're hits have included \Summer in the City,\ \Day Dream,\' and \Do You Believe in Magic.\ The Righteous Brothers will appear at the R.P.I. Field House on Friday, November 17. Further information can be obtained from the Field House at 270-6262. The combined glee clubs of Union College and Simmons College of Bos- ton will present a concert at 8:30 p.m. Saturday, Nov. 11, at Memorial Chapel. Included in the program will be the first area performance of a choral se~ection composed by Leonard Bern- stein, famed conductor of the New York Philharmonic and composer of the score for \West Side Story.\ Rabbi Abraham L. Feinberg, a out- spoken critic of the United States policy in Vietnam and a recent visitor to North Vietnam will lecture on the war tonight at 8:00 o.m. at the Tem- ple Gates of Heaven, Ashmore Ave- nue and Eastern Parkway, Schenec- tady. Rabbi Feinberg accompanied the Right Reverend Ambrose Reeves, assistant bishop of the diocese of Chichester, England and the Rever- end A. J. Muste of New York on a trip to Hanoi in January of this year. Feinberg talked with Ho Chi Minh, The New Art String Trio, called the · first American string trio of Jliajor importance, will present a concert at 8:0p.m. Tuesday (11/14) at Memorial Chapel. Joseph Fennimore will present a piano ~ecital at 8:0 p.m. Wednes- day, Nov. 15, at Memorial Chapel. The recital, open to the public, is sponsored by the college's Depart- ment of Arts. Former U.N. correspondent, Darius Jhabvala, will speak on U.N. Peace- • keeping Operations in Hale House · Student Lounge on Thursday, Novem- ber 16 at 4.0 p.m. He spoke at Union · last year on South west AfriGa. Jhabvala served in the Communi- cations Section of the United Nations for four years. After leaving the United Nations and before taldng his present position, he taught at the • Latin-American Institute in New York, his subjects being International • Law, Diplomatic History, History of the Far East, and Diplomatic Corres- pondence. · Two thousand dollars is the .goa 1 for the annual drive of the Campus chest to be conducted at winter registra- tion. Money donated will go towards several projects in which the organi- zation is involved. Each year ninety dollars is sent along with an equal portion by the I.F.C. to send Sultana Karabasakalis, the daughter of a Greek family living in the mountains, to high school for a year. In return, her progress is sent to Union by the \save the children foundation.\ The following are the results of the first meeting of the Student~Faculty Bridge Club: (1) Marshal Langlois-Paul Check- ovich. (2) Jerry Strauss-Maus Stearns. (3) Professors Gati and Lambert. (4) Professor Goodheart and Father Gagnon. The next meeting of the Bridge Club will be at 7:45 on Tu.esday, 14 November, in Hale House Faculty Lounge. Anyone interested in join- ing the Bridge Club should be present at the next meeting or contact Pete Hathaway, 253 Fox (393-7841). By JOHN WILLIAMS u Freshmen elections were held last night and the results are as follows: .tfoward Jl1:iHer defeated Bill Dawson ior President by a margin of twenty- ·' t e .. ght votes; Chuck LaMn .defeated Fury Scialdone for Vice-President by twenty-six votes; Bob Levine defeated Carl Koerner by a margin of twenty- four votes for the office of Secretary; and Kent Doyle triumphed over write- in candidate Edgar Rundell by thirty- one votes for the office of Treasurer. Class turnout in the final elections · was sixty per cent. Primary Results In the Primary Eelections, which '' • were held on Tuesday, the voter tarn- out was seventy per cent and the fol· lowing candidates were eliminated: Mark Boylan, Donald Kessler, Greg ,., · Cl Nicosia, Bob Teittinen, andJohn Well· ing for President, and E. PavJides and Michael Spencer for Vive-Presi· dent. .. 11 ·· In previous campus elections, can- didates have restricted their cam- . paigning to painted or home-made · posters and man to man interviews, but this year's Freshmen may have set '' 1 ··· fJ a new trend in campus politics. For the first time in the history of the school, aspirants for political office used elaborate campaign material. ., . , Waif Posters Walls and doors could be seen covered with red and white posters 11 • a advertising Bill Dawson for class President and Fioravante (Fury) Scialdone for Vice-President, a printed page telling you why Mark Boyla:Q ·>> · 11 should be President, and a printed brochure detailing all the points of John Welling's platform for the office of President. There were, however, some candidates who were content to rely solely on home-made posters with- out any factual information concern- ing ther platforms and even a few hopeful office-seekers who campaign- ed on a strictly man to man basis, without putting up any kind of signs or posters. Miller~ the newly elected freslnnan class President campaigned entirely!) ~ on the basis of personal contact. Petitions for Student Council seats are due in Student Activities by 4::30 P.M. on Monday, November 13. The Faculty of Center I will hold an Open House Novem- ber 15, from 3~00-4:30 pm. in the faculty lounge on the sec- ond floor of the Humanities · Building. All interested students are invited. Any sophomore who wishes placed in the Student Activities to apply for the position of Office in Old Gym Hall no Assistant Orientation Chairman later than December 5. All may obtain application forms candidates will be interviewed in the Student Activities Office. before a decision is made. No Ch.E.s at Merck ... e.~You know that isothermal recrystallization process Dick Klophaus* worked out? L. G. BALFOUR CO~ CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FA.VORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 ! • I i I previous experience with Orien- Comp!eted forms must be tation programs is required. Union Pharmacy 600 UNION STREET FREE DELIVER¥ COLOGNES & AFTERSHAVE LOTIONS FR 4-3605 Jade East - English Leather- B1·ut Old Spice - Canoe - That Man Britith Sterling - Rau•aiian Surf Jean Nate Old Dutch Restaurant LARGE FEMALE DOG WANTED OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK CALL 377-2527 A Touch of Holland in Schenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices ASK FOR CHAMP 1617 Union St. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate Phone 374-5770 Serving Union For 34 Years SILVER DIN.ER of Scbenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere I i ... it's working out just fine.\ Dick Klophaus gets real satisfaction from the variety and sophistication of engineering needed to develop, design, and manage the processes required to produce Merck products. He and his Ch.E. col- leagues gef equal satisfaction from the knowledge that the end result of their work is a better life for more people, around the world. For many engineers, it's an ideal combination. Add mobility ... real opportunity for growth and promotion • , • real oppprtunlty to learn and develop new techniques ..• Merck's liberal policies on benefits, graduate work, and professional achieve- ment ..• Merck's outstand- ing sales growth (122% since 1957) and research investment ($46million this year). Add all these factors together, and you'll see why Merck attracts some of the finest engineering talents in the country. And keeps them. How about you? Think about the engineering variety and sophistication required to produce the complex molecules used forpharma· ceuticalproducts. Think about the good use these products areput to. Then see your Merck Representative on campus. *A graduate of Newark College of Engineering (B.S.Ch.E., 1965), Dick Klophaus helped perfect techniques to improve output of this comp(ex crystalline compound-an im- portant component in nutritional supple- ments. Pick Klophaus, by the way, now supervises production of Vitamin C, Vitamin K 11 and various sulfa products. His responsibilities, and those Of other young Ch.E.s, are described in our new booklet, Merck: an engineer's company. You'll not only learn from this booklet- you'll actuallY enjoy reading it. Pick up a copy at your Placement Office, or write: Manager College Relations. e~.· MERCK &CO., INC. Rahway, New Jersey 07065 An £qual Opportunity Employer 10 ------·-----------------------·-------------J •. ~ Thursday, NEW CHI Co: A speci ent and f1 be held hE 175 poten capital fw The me noon unti college's I its regula tomorrow time to j Invited ership ses and other: an import lege meet the first 1 effort. The con tomorrow the Holid Speakers chairman and Dr. C. of the P1 secretary Mr. Bru: and Prof. plans for Followir will adjou auditoriun of panel coUege's I future. The fir chairmansl Whalen '4 Yesterday be Clarkso nus, Frede ent (of Je1 K. Killian A group by Prof. 1\ cuss the ~ the panel' A. Bick, ' Gilbert H~ and Raym, William B Followi11 the home1 Martin an1 wood, a d Holid;;~y II Bennett '2: will speak Ga~ Prof. F1 departmen can locate let \Glen Union\ wll to see him Humanitie1

9, 1967 t '' o· es. u last follows: Dawson twenty- · • t defeated by defeated twenty- ecretary; write- thirty- reasurer. elections w · s, which'' • tarn- the fol- er, Greg ,., · c; Well- PavJides ·'~I . , can- cam- . · have set ·•> · · fJ For of the al office 131 . f be seen . posters 11 • a or class (Fury) printed Boylal\ ., 1 · 8 printed points of office however, to with- concern- a few ampaign- an basis, of signs entirely )) ~ seats by 4::30 13. 10 •. ~ Thursday, November 9, 1967 < NEW CHEERlEAD'ERS: Girls from Skidmore join Union cheerleaders at the Hobart game. Skidntore Chee-rleaders; Boost Un.i·on Morale By DAVID R,AE The 1967 Homecoming Game against Hobart saw a new and we1come s1ght on the gridiron. Ten women from ~:>kidmore came to bolster Union's spirit and our fourteen cheerleaders. They started what Rusty lV.(anker; the president of the Union cheerleaders, hopes will become a tradition. Rusty said that \the ten girls were chosen from twenty fi.ve well quali- fied applicants.\ These cheerleaders will again join with Un.iqp~s for the Fall Weekend game against Hamilton. The ten lucky co-eds are; Marge Nash and Betty Palmer {co-leaders), Ellen Schapps, Libby Louis, Karen Zefting, Karen Young, Terry Timbers, Pam Nelson, Jill Lord, and Betty Parin. Those poor men of Union who must suffer through this ordeal are; Rusty Manger {president), Steve Wielin, Craig Youner, Mark Bauman, Dave Miller, Fred Bierman, Brad Craig, Glen Rappaport, Ross Fraser, Don Bentravato, Don Barrit, Joe Smith, and Mark Swiney. The two people responsible for the merger betwee!l the cheerleaders are Rasty and a conspirator o.f his at Skidmore, Patty Ciaglia. Another new and perminenat tra- dition will be those friendly signs over the gym. ·· Campus Action Committee Moves Marine Recruiter From Hale House Lounge A verbal protest by the Campus Action Committee against the pres- ence of military recruiters on campus moved a recruiter for a Marine Corp Officer Training Program from Hale House to the relative obscurity of Wells House, the alumni relations office. Captain E. M. Litz was originally stheduled to have recruited at Hale House from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., but a request to man a \peace table\ in opposition to the rnarine brought hi:s presence to the attention of Dean Theodore Lockwood and President Harold Martin. 3 Jo,intGathering Sponsored By Sigma Phi Frat Ey LEN KAGAN Thmsday 11ight, Oct. 26, an inform- ,al fraternity-faculty gathering was sponsored ;by Sigma Phi. Written in- vitations were sent to each faculty member and to the ,p.residents of the other fraternitit!S, asking that each fraternity send three men from their house to the gathering. Carl Hobbs, Sigma Phi's Scholastic Chairman, commented that such. an event was held two years ago on campus and that he received the idea from Dean Polloc]{. Hobbs felt that since \this is a small campus, with possibilities for close student-faculty relations, this event could initiate other re- laxed gatherings of a similar nature.\ Hobbs also expressed the hope that such \interactions would help to im- prove the fraternity image by en- couraging faculty to visit the fra- ternity houses and meet the brothers on an informal basis.\ Appmximately 40 faculty members attended-among this group were President Martin an<i Deans Lock- wood and Pollock. Jlollock seemed quite pleased that this sort of func- tion had been held. He commented that the use of written invitations and the decision to invite men from other fraternities \tended to broaden the contact\ over the course of the evening. Pollock noted, \Sigma Phi was an excellent host-I hope that this type of funtcion will be held often by the other frataernities.\ Capital Fund Drive Conf·erence Set: According to Lockwood neither he nor Dean of Students 0. E. Pollock knew of the pro.posed visit by the marine and it was decided that he should recruit in Wells House. He also stated he believed all recruiters military or civilian, should interview students in Wells House in the future. Wells House also serves as the career placement center. Enjoys Fraternity Prof. John Sowa, a new faculty member .of the chemistry department, said that he enjoyed seeing the fra- ternity and commented that \since I'm new here, I found this an excel- lent opportunity to discuss both social and academic matters with the stu- dents.\ Prof. V. E. Pilcher, Associate Professor of Physics, appreciated the chance to \speak to a large group of students about a large variety of subjects.\ College Direction T·o Be Discussed A special conference on the pres. ent and future of Union College :will be held here this weekend, with some 175 potential leaders of the current capital fund campaign in attendance. The meeting will last from Friday noon until Saturday afternoon. The college's board of trustees will hold its regular fall IlleetinP\ on. ,..11mpn~ tomorrow morning, adjourning in time to join the conte1ence. Invited to attend the special lead- ership session were alumni, friends, and others who are expected to play an important part in helping the col- lege meet the $12.5 million goal of the first three-year capital campaign effort. The conference will get under way tomorrow noon with a luncheon at the Holiday Inn on N ott Terrace. Speakers will be Meade Brunet '16 chairman of the board of trustees' and Dr. c. William Huntley, chairman of the Psychology Department and secretary of the college, Mr. Brunet will welcome the guests and Prof. Huntley will describe th~ plans for the conference. Following lunch the participants will adjourn to the Social Sciences auditorium for the first in a series of panel discussions describing the coHege's programs and plans for the future. First Discussion The first discussion, under the chairmanship of Trustee Kenneth E. Whalen '49, will deal with \Union Yesterday and Today.\ Speaking will be Clarkson N. Potter '50 as an alum- nus, Frederick W. Frost '37 as a par- ent (of Jeremy Frost '71), and Robert K. Killian, Jr. '69 as a student. A group of facu!ty members headed by Prof. Neal W. Allen will then dis· cuss the academic program. Also on the panel will be Professors Theodore A. Bick, '58, William J. Daniels, H. Gilbert Harlow, H. Alan Nelson '46, and Raymond Rappaport, Jr. Trustee Wiiliam B. Jaffe '26 will preside. Following a pair of receptions at the homes of President Harold C. Martin and Dean Theodore D. Lock- wood, a dinner will be held at the HolidBy Inn, with Trustee Ralph D. Bennett '21 presiding. Dean Lockwood will speak on trends in higher edu- Gado & Glenway Prof. Frank Gado of the English department requests that anyone who can locate some copies of the book- let \Glenway Wescott Comes to Union\ which was published last; year, to see him. His office is 214B in the Humanities Building, cation as they may affect the small liberal arts college. Saturday morning the conference will resurr.e in the Social Sciences auditorium with a continued discus- sion of the college today, this time emphasizing the student viewpoint rather than that of the faculty. Student Members Student members of the panel will be Donald R. Fraser, Jr. '70, Kent T. Kraft '68, James Rubenstein '68, and Benjamin Volinski, Jr. '68. Joining them in the discussion will be Pro- fessors Joseph B. Board, Jr. and John Girdner. Trustee William R. Grant '49 will preside. Emphasis will shift to the fut11re in the second of Saturday's sessions, when Deans Martin Lichterman and Mountebanks . . . Continued from Page 1 not until various members of the ad- ministration received their invitations that they learned of the planned re- ception. None of the plans and orders for the reception were cleared in ad- vance with the administration. Upon learning of the reception, the admin- istration quickly began to inqure into the extent of the arrangements that had already been made. This was done, they stressed, in order to make the proper arrangements for handling the proj'.lcted crowd on campus that evening. No cuts in any of the plans or orders were called for by the ad- ministration. Declinations of invitations were re- <>eived from the Lt. Governor Malcom Wilson. and Senator Jacob K. Javits before the Friday reception. A private secretary of Governor Rockefeller, contacted in New York where the governor was attending a conference. reported that the governor would probably be unable to attend, but would try to send a personal repre- sentative. It is not known if such a representative did attend. Housing . .. Continued from Page 1 who would be more efficacious in providing a sober influence. In resurrecting the issue of a pub- licatiqns board, the Council did not consider interfering in the editorship selection process. Dean Lockwood ex- plained, \A vacuum exists,\ without anybody to whom a publication might turn in times of extreme crisis. Lock- wod compared the concept to that of the Faculty Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure, which virtually never meets, but gives faculty mem- bers the assurance that an efficacious advocate exists. Council Chairman Pike will solicit the opinion of the leaders of the student publications before the next meeting. James D. Palmer join Franklin Kneedler, Assistant to the President, for a discussion of \Planning for TomoiTow.\ Presiding at the session will be Trustee William A. Waldron '35, vice chairman of the board of trustees. The conference will close with a luncheon Saturday noon at the Holi· day Inn. The ·major address by Presi· dent Martin will deal with the col- lege's needs and the capital campaign as a means of meeting them. Trustee Herbert Willetts '23, retired president of Mobil Oil Co. and national chair- man of the capital fund-raising ef- fort, will preside at that session. Addditional conferences are plan- ned later in the year for those who were unable to attend this first meet- ing. Attendance at the conferences is by invitation only. Furniture Missing A large amount of furniture and other articles was stolen from various campus lo~ations last Th~rsday night, November 2, it was reported today by Richard Lucas, Director of Residence Programs and Assisant to the Dean of Students. Two lamps and one table are miss- ing from Fox Hotise Lounge. One lamp, missing since before last Thurs- day, has not yet been located. 'rwo lamps are missing from Davidson Lounge. Lucas said the lamps may re- tail as much as $200. Fraternities Victims Fraternity houses also were vic- timized. Two plaques were report~d stolen from both Delta Chi and Phi Gamma Delta. Two troph~es, missing from Beta Theta Pi were later found behind Wells House. Lucas reported that camuus police and the mainten- ance staff are looking for the stolen article~. He hopes they will be found or returned soon. A bus for the China Seminar to be held this Friday and Satarday at SUNY in Albany will leave from The Idol on Friday at 7:00 p.m. and on Saturday at 8:30 a.m. On both days the bus will return at about 10:30 p.m . Litz Dissatisfied Litz stated he was generally dis- satisiied with the location and feels he was moved because of an anticipated demonstration. He would have pre- ferred being in Hale House \even with a denJOnstration\ because his program depends mostly on exposure. Non-Convo President Martin will talk to students in Memorial Chapel at 11:30, Thursday Nov. 16 on sub- jects ranging from Parietal Rules to Long-Range Planning for the GolJ_ege~ A question and answer P.eriod will follow. The regulal\ll.:Onvocation scheduled for that day has been cancelled due to the sickness of Prof. Allen Nevins. No convocation credit will be given. Topics of conversation ranged from the availability of dates in the Tri- Cities, to the Comp. Ed program. Prof. W. Dean Eckert. Associate Prof .. of Arts, who has participated in the program since its birth last year, called the gathering a valuable oppor- tunity to get student opinion and criticism. \This type of informal dis- cussion is quite different than speak- ing to a student in your office, where the topic of conversati<m is usually his problems.\ John Bishop, President of Sigma Phi, summed up the evening's events this way: \1 was generally pleased with the way it turned out, although there were fewer faculty present than we had expected. I think everyone who attended enjoyed themselves.\ · Communism Explained In N·on Marxist Discussion \Identification with nationalism may prove to be the high road to communism in the future,\ was the prediction of a leading analysist of communist systems last Thursday. Dr. Robert C. Tucker, Professor of Politics at Princeton University, speaking in Memorial Chapel stated that the breakdown of indiginous established authority gives the com- munists a chance to reconstitute themselves as guerillas and gain large amounts of support on a nationalistic basis. Tucker called a system of \no war\ Robert C. Tucker speaks at convocation the simple and effective method to Prevent Communism and its spread. In almost all cases, he . explained, communists have taken over in so- cieties where the S()Cial fabric has been severely strained by war. Communist Mo;.remenfs He said there are communist move- ments in 80 non-communist nations but it doesn't appear inevitable that they will become sufficiently strong to take over the country, except for the possibility of a cornrnunist victory in South Vietnam. Communist revolts are lJrobable irt uhder<leveloted coun- tries where economic progress is slow or stagnant, where the peasants de- pend on agriculture and where sharp class divisions exist. The communists try to build en- claves of a new .society in liberated areas .by means of a socio-political revolution. Schools, newspapers and oth~ social institutions are estab- lished in these areas even before the revolution is completed. In Cllina, he stated, the Communists controlled one-fifth of the area by 1945 and established this as a Com- munist base. The revolution of Octo- her 1, 1949 was not the beginning but the climax of a decade of liP· heava1. Tucker emphasized \the revo- lution was built primarily on the basis of an appeal to nationalism.\ Use of Natir>nalism The Vietnamese used nationalism against the French and are now using it against the Americans, he explained. The growing polycentrisrn of the Communist movement, the fact that it has not proved to be a cohesive international force as evidenced by the Sino:So\riet split since 1957, may be a symptom of crisis ih the move- ment.

4 · UNION Thursday, ·Nov. 9: Moving Finger pres';'•!• Cliff Salone Jazz Trio, 8:00 p.m., Soli•· man Hall, B. Thursday, Friday, Sat.~rday, Nov, 9, 10, 1'1: Mountebani<s Falls ·Production, \Waiting for Godot,\ 8:30 p.m., Noll Memorial. Friday, Nov, 10: Jazz Concert by ~azz: Workshop, 10:30 p.m., Human:tles Building 19. Saturday, Nov. 11: Union-Simmons Glee Club Concert, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Tuesday, Nov. 14: Interfraternity Council Meeting, 7:00 p.m., Hale Hause Student Lou oge. Student-Faculty bridge, 7:45 p.m., Hale House Faculty lounge. Convocation, Concert, New Art String Trio 8·30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Wednesday', .Nov. 15: Concert, Joseph Fen· nlmore, Pianist, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Thursday, Nov. 9: International Rel'ations Conference sponsor movie, '\R~om .ot 1he Top,··· .7 and 9 p.m., CommunitY Theatre. (·Admission charge•) • ' lnternctionol Rectiot'ls Club sponsors l~c· t \ 1 TI\a Soviet Union as a Developtng C ure,, 1917-1967' by Dr. Robert S. ou n ry, , • • 1 S . Shorlet, Professor of Pohhco c&ence, Union College, 7:30 p.m. Therese 'filene ·Music Building. Skidmore Qepartment of Drama pro~uc­ tion o'f ''Venus Observed,'' by Chnsto- pher Fry, at B p.m .. Lillie Theatre. (Play running through Sunday'}· Mondcy, November 13: Departmen! of ·Mod· ern Languages sponsors French .Ftlm Shotr, uHommage a Debussy,•• 7 p.m.# lan- guage ·Center. ·opening of Art Exhibition of Contempor· ary Weaving by Olga Amaral, 7:30 p.m., Hathorn Gallery, Program of Asian Stu_dles presents. lec- ture illustrated with mov~~ an?' s~~des, ··what I Saw in Communist China, by Mls::a Myra Roper, lecturer in Compt... tive Education, Monash Univ~rsit.y, ·Me! bourne, 7:30 p.m., Therese Fllene Must<.. P.uilding Recital Hall. , Science Club sponsore lecture, ''Organtc Polymers,'' by R. Meals, 7:30p.m., Re< reat ion Center. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI : 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 RELAX! PLAY BILLIARDS AT Jay Billiard Lounge 167 Jay Street SPECIAL RATES For U.nion Men DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Op~n Doily J 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 502 Broaclway 377-8838 DARI TREET RESTAURANT 2()49 Van Vranken Ave CHAR-BROILED STEAK DINNER $1.50 . BEEFBURGER PLA TIER $1.1 0 w/Fr. Fries & Vegetable FR 7-4261 ..... .,.-..,..- Giani Slt;ps: . ' ()oo.-s Swing Out CLIFFORD SA.FANE Strange Days (Elektr-a). The Doors' sec· ond album. Although it has one major weakness which I will go into later, this is a good album. The Doors are an extremely tight group. Instrumentally 1 they are excellent. Robby Kreiger is a fme guitarist. Nothing flashy, mind you. But he knows what sounds good. And Ray Manzarek is one of the finest rock organists that I have ever heard. What I don't like about this album is that it is too similar to the Doors first record. \When the Music's Over\ is another \The End.\ And a few of the other tunes are also copies of the songs on the first album. But the album is very good. \People Are Strange\ is a groovy tune, And \Horse Latitudes\ is a haunting exploration of the unknown. Unfortunately, good can't be used to de- scribe the debut of the Clear Light _,. scribe the debut of the Clear Light (Elec- tra). They are just an ordinary sounding Come gather 'round people Wherever YOlf roam Acd admit th~t the waters Around you ~ave grown. And accept ~t that soon You• 11 be drenched to the bone, If your time to you is worth savin' Then you better start swimmin' Or you' 11 sink like a stone, For the times they are a-changin'l @ 1963 (Unp) by M. Witmark & Son in the U.S.A. @ 1964 by M. Witmark & Son unoler Universal Copyright Convention. Used by Permission. Bob Dylan .. -<! ' -· rock group and don't deserve any more review space than this. Dizzy Gillespie's SWing Low, Sweet Ca· dillac (Impulse) is an extremely good ex:· ample of the joy of jazz. Dizzy is jazz's leading clown prince. \And \Swing Low\ shows how funny the man can be. Yet the album isn't one big comedy r(!).utine. Dizzy's trumpet and his reed. sec- tion James Moody can play, and do. Listen to ''Kush.\ It is very exciting jazz. One of Dizzy's finest albums and strong. ly recommended. ---- Thursday,-November 9, 1961 Letters . .. • Continued from Page 6 nor enough faculty man power to ,produce even such ·a small schedule Qdequaloly. Until the full backing of the administration is obtained, Union ·can never hope Ia develop Us theato·e program. This brings me to my final· paint. This summer's Symposium gave one tile lm• pression that a re11alssance in li!e arts had accured at Union, that there was a concerted effort to develop the arts at Union by providing them with lhe neces· sary fina11clal and profesional suport. In brief response Ia this belief, if it is ·not truG. Sln~erely Robert Thurber '68 , Noven Exam ina ow is th4 ONDAY, Dl 9:oo-n:om Com} Econ His to Russi Philo P.oliti i Biolo UJIIVI''I ..... MY, Dl 2:00-4:00 Econl 1 Histo - His to i Russi • • • Nat1 j (; ) I. - .... ~·-a-- --• __ ,._ r•~ ....... To communicate is the beginning of understanding llj\ AT&T ~ and.AuooiJ!Id Componln ,, Q J • _, . . .. .. ~ ~.... - ....

4 •· r .UN·IQN .... ~· . ' Thursday. Nov q Mo~rng F rnger presenh (!iff Solont> Jazz hro, 8 00 p m., Sill•· mon Hall, B Thvrsdoy. Fridoy, Saturdoy, Nov '1, 10, lL Mountebonlt~ Fall<. Product.ion, Waiting for Godot. 8 30 p m ., Nett Memorial Friday, Nov 10. Jozl Conu:>rt b., Jazz Work,hon. !0 30 p m. Humanitie~ Building 19 Saturday. Nov 11 Un.on S.mmon~ Glee (tub Con~ert 8 30 om. Memorial (hopei Tuesday, Nov 14: lntt•rfratt\rnd)' Council Meet.ng. 7 00 p m . Hale Hour,E> Student to unge Student Foe ult'f brrdge, 7 45 P n\ . Halt> Hou~e Fa,ulty lounge ( 0 n,ocotion, Con<erl, New Art String Trro, 8 30 o_m. Memodal Chapel. Wednc!.doy, Nov 15: Concert, Joseph F~n­ nrmore, P.an,q, 8 30 p m., Memorrol (1-loPPI .,,. \\· ·~· ·~·-rs.'M\\'~C\. ;: . 1 - ·~· \· ,St ·..,. 'lilh:u;;.· · : ··.· ,; . • ''T •• 1-:~ \ . ' • ' • ' . ' '<5 Thl.lr':>doy' Nov q tnternot.onol Relation.,_ (onferencp ,pon .. or rna\ If', Room at the To~, 7 end Q P m. Community Theatre (Adm•'>I•On charge) lnternoi•Or>OI ReotiOr'l'> Club '>POnsor'J I.e< lure, 'The So\'\' Un•on o~ a Develop ng Cour\fr<>y_ 1 Ql ].1967 b) Or Robert S Shadet, Profe~~or of Political Science, Lin ion Colle,t>, 7 30 P m There~e Folene Mu'>•t Buildong Si-.idmore- 0t:\Parlrnent of DramCl produc· t•on of • Vcnv., Ob~crv~d.' by (hrio;.fO· L 1 ttle Tht>atre (Play ,,her Fr~. at h ;..' m . tvnn.ng through Sunday l Mollday. November 13: Oepartmen~ of Mod. Prn Lan<':\u09l'\' .,pcn~Of\ Fte nch Fdm Shotr, \Hornmoqe- a D(.>b\~. 7 P m · Lon· guogP Ct:?ntt.'r Qpen, 1 g of Art Exh•b•lion of Contempor· ory w~a· · 09 b'r Olga Amoral, 7 30 P m., Hotl1orn Gallt ry, Proqrnrn of A.,!on Stvdr(.>~ pres.ent\>. lee· tvre lllu~troted ..... ,th mo· .. e ond o;.lrdcs., 'What I Sow in Communi~ot (h'no, b·, Mi.,s M,ro Roper. le-dur£'1 In lomp~ tove Educotron. Mona~h Univ\'r')rty Me~ bourne, 7 JO P m . Th('rE'\P FiiPne Mu~11. Buildrng R~<:tal Hall . ~~it:.•nre. Club ~oon.,')re lecturt'. 'Organ1t Pohmen. 1 by R Mt>al~. 7 30 P m., Re reot•on Cenh..•r The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP :262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER 't •h\ S,qn of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI · 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 RELAX I • PLAY BILLIARDS AT Jay Billiard Lounge 167 Jay Street SPECIAL RATES For Union Men DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Doily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to A.M. Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 5()2 Broadway 377-8838 DARI TREET RESTAURANT 2049 Van Yranken Ave CHAR-BROILED STEAK DINNER $1.50 BEEFBURGER PLA TIER $1.10 w'Fr. Fries & Vegetable FR 7-4261 Giant St~ps: [)oo.-s Swing Out CLIFFORD SAF ANE Strange Days ( Elektra). The Doors' sec- ond album. Although it has one majot· weakness which I win go into later, this is u .l:ood album. The Doors arp an extremely tight group. Instrunwntally. they are excellent. Robby Kreigt'r is a fine guitarist. Nothing flashy, mind ~·ou. But he knows what sounds good. And Ray l\lanzarek is one of the finest rock organists that I have ever heard. What I dum't like about this album is that it 1s t0o similar to the Doors first record. \When the Music's Over\ is anoth.er \The End.\ Ami a few o·f the other tunes are also copies of the songs 0n the first album. But the album is very good. \Peo{ille Are Strange\ is a groovy tune. And \Horse Latitudes\ is a haunting exploration of the unkn0wn. Unfortunately, good can't be used to de- scribe !he debut 0f the Clear Light - scribe the debut of the Clear Light ( Elec· Ira). They are just an ordinary sounding people Come gather 'round Wherever you roam And admit that the waters have grown. Around you And accept it that You'll be drenched soon to the bone, If your time to you is worth savin' Then you better start swimmin' Or you'll sink like a stone~ For the times they are a-changin'l ·> lq63 (UroJ b> tv< w.•~\' & Son on the U.S.A r) l?b4 b., M. Wltrrark: & 5'1.., -.J\ofAI' U\•vPrSJI Copyright Corre'ltion. 'J~.:.-j b, P.:\T SS-,)\:. Bob Dylan rock group ar.ld don't deserw any n:ore review space than this. Dizzy Gillespie's Swing Low, Sweet Ca· dillac (Impulse) is an extremely good ex· ampl!l of the joy of jazz. Dizzy is j,azz's leading clown prince. \Ar:1d \Swing Low\ shows how funny the man can be. Yet the album isn't one big c0rnedy mutine. Dizzy's trumpet and his reed sec- Uon James Moody can p}ay, and do. Listen to \Kush.\ It is very exciting jazz. One of Dizzy's finest albums and strong- ly recommended. To communicate is the beginning of understanding @ AI~t Thursdoy, November C:,, 1967 Letters • Continued h·om Page 6 nor enough fa<ulty man power to produce even such a small sohedule adequately. Until the full backing of the administration [s obtc:dned·, ·tlnion con never hope to develop its theatre program, This brings me to my final point. This summer's Symposium gave 0110 the 1m\' pression that a renoissanco in the arts had occured at l!Jnion, that there was a concerted ·effort to develop the ort5 at Union oy providing them wilh the neces· sary financial and profesional suport. In brief response to this. belief, if it is not true. Since-rely Robert Thurber '68 Thursday, N ,,~ Conflict! ! )e Groff ir clay, Novel ·r Examine Jbelow is tb tl,, i ••• t IMONDAY, C I 9:oo.u:o ' C0m Ecor Phil4 e 1 1r Polit Bio14 MONDAY, JJ • ~ 2:00-4:00 Ecor Hist! ... f,,. Hist~ I RusE I el 1 ·\I· t;'tl I 'I' I I r X., I •\ f 'It il '-10111!1 .... ,.QUI! . ( Nat1 ,, r• ) ' l ,j > ..,, J ( - • I)

Thursday, November 9, 1.967 · . Pilgrim In Israel By ALA.N KLEIN '69 A:lail Klein, a Concor<ly newsman, is !i!Pendi:n'g his Junior Year at L . the . University {)f Jerusalem. .. Jeru~ai'e;'lp., Israel - One afternoon, about a month ago some friends and I decided to go. to visit the Old City of Jerusalem; so we walked through Mea Shearitrt to the Mandel:baum Gate, walked right through the gate, . visited the B'ockefeller Museum, and walked the market of the Old City . . above paragraph is- entirely true, but the fact that I was able to do the things named still seems incPedible. In preparing for my year in Israel, I received several bPOchures describing the procedure for going through the Mandelbaum Gate. Of course, , • ., ... ,.,\\' ·. that gate was out of the qu~stion for me, since Jordan and still does not grant visas to Jews. Now, however, the City is mine to visit whenever I wish. Walking through the Mandelbaum Gate that day, I found it to believe that ~ this tin-roofed shed had ever been of any There was a lone Israeli soldier seated there on a chair looking wearily at those passing through the gate, which acquired its name from the fact that it was constructed over what before 1948 had , been the house of one Dr. 1\i:landel:baum. 'i'he .area arcmnd the gate contains several sites worth mention- ing. The most interesting is Meah Shearim, the neighborhood of the ultra-orthQdox Jews, who have transplanted Jewish ghetto life of seV'er~l centuries ago to the modern state of Israel, the authority which they refuse to recognize. For these people religious , , .,..,., ..... ~o is the on'ly really important thing in life. Modern Jews who visit the neighborhood come away with varying impressions, but the most typical is the one expressed by a of m~ne who walked through one on a Shabbat (Sabbath) ••1•:'ltt13rn He said, ' \There we were, my friends and I gazing at fellow Jews and feeUng as if no understanding were . possible between us.\ Israeli attitudes toward the ultra-orthodox, which constitutes but a small . fraction of the · population of the state, .are a mixture of ridicule, respect, and scorn, tb.e latter due partly to the fact that most . of the members of tb.is group refuse to serve in the army. On the other side of the gate in what had been Jordan sits St. George's Cathedral, the best-known Anglican Church in Jeru- salem. The church b.as a distinctly English flavor, which sets it well apart from the boisterous Middle Eastern atmosphere which surrounds it. This cathedral is . the seat of the \Anglican Bishop The Old Cify of Jerusalem in Jerusalem,\ a terminology devised by the Anglican Church to avoid taking sides in the Arab-Israeli conflict over Jerusalem. Unlike almost all other Anglican Churches, St. George's has a baptismal font equipped for complete immersion. Also, if one looks in the bookcases at the entrance of the church one will find copies of the Book of Common Prayer in Arabic. Next on our itinerary was the Rockefeller Archeological Mus- eum, but in order to get there we had to walk through what we shall ciul Arab New Jerusalem. We pass scores of travel agencies signs offering tours to Beirut, Bag<J.ad, Cairo, Amman, and Damascus. N()t one was open. Some will adapt themselves to service the Israeli tourist industry. Most will not. They join the many Arab losers in the attempt to destroy Israel 1 • Under the British and Jordanians, the Rockefeller Museum went by the name of the Palistine Archeological Museum, which is the name the British gave to it when it was complete<} in 1938. Since the Six Day War, it is the Rockefeller Museum of the Israel Museum. Now a ticket to tb.e Rockefeller Museum is an Israel Museum ticket 11ith \Rockefeller\ spelled out in Hebrew letters stamped on it. The museum structure bears many marks of the stormy history it has lived through. There are pockmarks and shattered windows from the most recent war . The signs in the museum are in English followed by carefully balanced Hebrew and Arabic. The two languages seem to glare at each other under tile English,; much as Arabs and Jews fought each other in the area surrounding • the museum, despite the efforts of the British mandatm:y author- ities to contain the conflicts. On the morning that I was there, one could observe Isra~lis walking through the museum with yellowed Hebrew . guidebooks from before 1948. Israelis are generally quite enthusiastic about archeology, a fact which finds its reflection in the crowds at the Rockefeller Museum. The labeling at t1le Rockefeller seemed quite poor compared to tl1e caref~l labeling I had encoup.tered earlier . at th~ newer Israel Museum several miles away. Artifacts are placed In large display cases with a lar~e sign on top telling y-ou which period the display is from. At the former, ()ne finds none of the careful explanations that one finds at the Israel Museum. \ The actual structure of the Rockef~ller is, :b,ow~ver, ~~ch more interesting than that of the Israel . Museum. The Rockefeller boasts long arched display rooms, a medieval~type tower, an open garden and pool in its center, and another very attractive garden 6 in front. On our way back to our dorms in the new city, we passed through, the market of the old city. At the time, I had yet to out grow my western repulsion at some of the things one finds there. It takes several visits to · be able · t() walk with equanimity past fly-covered sid~s of beef hung in the open air in total disregard of sanitation. Once when I had a cold, a British friend told me that I should visit the Old City before my cold got better, so as to be able to avoid the smells one encounters while walking through. ~ The smells and flies form part of a type of oriental color that most of us scarcely know exists. ;Merchants offer their wares in six or seven different languages, in Hebrew to Israelis, in Eng- lish to Americans, in FrE)nch to Frenchmen, etc., even though their knowledge of some of these languages is limited to numbers and the names of the items that they sell. One senses that things here are much the same as they were hundreds of years . ago. Kodak film is sold to Atnerica11 tourists in much the same way that supplies were sold to . the Crusaders. Civil sanitation is still a man going around with a bucket splashing water o.n the street. Cars are prohibited - the streets are much to narrow and winding to accomodate them. Alas, A&P has yet to conquer the entire world. 41 The above makes no pretence to be a comprehensive des(!ription of Jerusalem. Rather, it is me1·ely some of the reactions of a stu- dent of Unio1,1· · College to some of the things he saw in Jerusalem during a year'.of study there. '- I have avoided the ~iants of the Jerusalem area such as the Wailing Wall ! and the Church of the lioly Sepulcher, partially because I feel inadequate to disGuss them properly and partially because they have been discussed <Illite a lot in the general press. In a forthcoming article I hoJ)e to describe Mt. Scopus, the · original site of tile Hebrew University, at wh:ich I am now a student. 5 Disappointing Mountebanks; Wait For Godot By BART HA-RRINGTON, JR. The only- -term that can be used to describe the entire pro - gram staged <>r rather \put on\ by the Montebanks and the Dept. of the .Arts last Friday night is vast disappointment. On the surface the three pl~ys had very little in common, runtiiilg the gamut from 'buffo farce' to high d r a m a. They might llave .Jeft the viewer with fragmented feelings had not there been . a basic theme running through and tying . the plays together. Eacll play .portrays the vain attempt of an individual to escape from the :technical society in which he is trapped. Renaissance of the Arts In keeping witll the theme of the plays, several' of the Mqunte· banks expressed' feelings that the purpose of the presentation was to precipitate a renaissance of the arts at Union . To further this · end, a gala r-eception was held after the perf()rmance. How- ever, nothing ()£ importance happened there; and, contrary to . previous indicati()ns, no announcements were made and no thea· trical or political . dignitaries were present. If, in · fact, there is a renaissance at hand, it is certainly not due either to -the night's performances : ox the reception. The first play, Harold Pinter's The Dwnbwaiter, concerns two men who have : been made mechanical by the nature of their pro- fession, murder f<>r money. One of the men, Gus, aptly portrayed by James Gallagh:~r, hegins to question b.is role in the society that hires him to help destroy itself. As Gus loses and finds himself, a great terror and anxiety is supposed to be generated. The lack of any build·UJl causes an · emptiness rather than a tense, sus- penseful and horrifying collapse, as Gus is foiled in his attempt to flee from , the men who have hired him. The play itself was an excellent 1 choice considering the theme of the night, but its execution and delivery left much to be desired. High Point Anton Clleldtov~s The Celebration was clearly the high point of the eveniqg_ Dean Hoffman was hilarious as Hirin, the hypo- chondriacal little clerk, while William Judd and Jinx Lindenauer played hank ]>resident Shipuchin and his wife, the chatty Tatiana. Of particular note was the performance turned in by understudy Rebecca Siegel. She was extremely- convincing as the hag, Nastasia, even though she replaced the ill Lynn Paul a mere two days before the performance . In the play vve see each character concerned solely with his own affairs t() tlle exclusion of those of the others. We thus are left with the height ()f tile technical society-superficiality, fragmentation, pettiness and lack of concern, true feeling and basic values. AI· though several of the inexperienced actors sometimes slipped out of their roles, the play on the whole was entertaining, if amateurish, lively and funny. Premier The world premier of Union College Prof. William Meri- wether's Rock Gri2zle; Actor, Meets Shakespeare was, unfortunately, GODOT IS NOT : DEAD!! TIME The l<>ngest word in the la11guage? By letter C()unt, the longest word may be pneumonoultra· microscopic.:3ilic~volcanoconiosis, . a rare lung · disease. You won't find it in Web.3t~r's New Wotld Dictio11ary, Col/~g~ Edition. But you will find mol'e useful infor- mation about '\V~l'ds than in any other desk dictionary. Take the word tim~. In addi· tion to its derivation and an illustration sb()wing U.S. time zones; you'll find 48 clear def· initions of :the different mean. ings of time and 27 idiomatic uses, such ll:l tinre of one's life. 111 sum, everything you want to know about time. This .dictionary is approved and used by more than 1000 colleges and wversities. Isn't it time you () · woecl one? Only $5.95 for 176() pa~es; $6.S5 thumb-indexed. At Your Bookstora THE WORLD PU1lLISHING CO . . Cleveland and New York - ' .... . severely hampered hy technical difficulties. The play, a 'buffo farce,' was a pantomime with what turned ·out to be inaudible tape- recordings from Shakespeare's Hamlet. It seems that Rock Grizzle. played by William Meriwether, a super-Ibllywood technique-type actor wants to take up Shakespeare. Rock · has reduced acting to ~ sciencE a~d wants to take the leap to · art. He fails miserably when he :trips over his own cape, does not know what many of the words he says mean, and ends up drunk:. The analogy is all .too clear: Rock, the technical man, versus Slukespeare, the artistic and thinking man. The results are quite predictable. But because of the technical failure · in the play, much of the ; point as well as the subtlety was lost. However; it must be . n«Jted that Meriwether's antics were ,quite :funny and drew peals of laughter from the near- capacity au.dience. The point that the Mountebanks ha<i ' to make is to be well taken, especiaHy in a college whose humanities and social science$ . are just C()ming into their own to rival the technical centers. Lt is unfort'tm.ate and ironic that the presentation was below average as well as partly hampered by technical di:f.f.iculties. , -- -- ----~. - - - - --- ------- -· - • 4. · Godot RevieW · • • • It lacks a fullness · of sense, i.e. we are not - entirely sure what Gogo and Didi are doing, and why they are doing it. Kent Kraft, through- out most , ~f the act is stronger in his performance than the rest of the cast which creates an imbalance of , energy on the stage. He plays his Ii11es with a bigness that Phil Rice has not as yet bPOught his character up to. This discrepency between the degrees to which the actors are behind and are into their lines and actions leads to some difficulties in following transitions vf the moods, attitudes, and interests of Gogo and Didi. Play Gains After a relatively -rough start the play picks up momentum as it moves into Pozzo's scene. It then begins to falther some. Van- Denburgh plays Po:zzo well, but what :be lacks in bigness, he makes up for in loudness, which unfortunately tends to flatten out the edge which Rice and Kraft had just begtm to .sharpen. The final · section of the acll is excellent. ? ' hil and Kent as actors begin to work together more ~nd Didi and Gogo leave us anxiously awaiting Ad-Two. When Act-Two finally comes, it just comes, and comes, and comes - it's beautiful. Gogo and Didi are superb, and Pozzo is played with just the right bite. To try to say anything more about this act would be to do it an injustice. So- if you've read Waiting for Godot ~nd haven't yet seen it produced (even if you have seen it, you haven't really) see this one. It's more than worth it. BOB THURBER '68 BEEiiKHi Phonetically, thisis . as close as we can come to spelling beer. Specifically, Utica Cl11b beer. Now BEEaKff isn't easy to pronounce. In fact, it's down right hard. Anyway we. want every- one lo be ~ble to say BEEaKH! So, we have preparecl a 22\ x 34'' poster of our UC caveman pronouncing BEEaKH properly. Any- one who wants one, can gel one by dropping a note 1o BEEaKH, P.O .. Box 255, Utica, N.y. 13503. In the meantime, practice your .BEEaKH's by asking for one at your favorite tavern • . 'You;ll either get a UC right away or some strange . stares from tlte bartender. .. j

6 Thtmday, No.,ember 9, 1967 Thursday, t I I I I Letters to the Editor 1l ~Exan THURSDAY, 9:00-11: lVIu 1 1 Supp.ressed lssu~~-'· , .. ,. time it is seen as a panacea, To the Editor: . . ' regardl~s. of the source'.s view- This past. week President ·pomt. · Martin decided to let the · Community, in its Latin sense Editorial orriee, Old Gym, t'\\\' cut· Marine recruiter per.form his of; /~:J'llowship, of course doesn't Pu~ll~hed Thursdays ducing tile scnuo1 year by the Student Bmly of Union Col!e~e. Schenectady, N. Y. National lege. Pul>lil'atlon om..,e. Scheneclatly duties ih Wells House rather e:&i;:it here. People Wlthout com- 'l'l'inting Comvany, ;;o~ lkoadwuy, I than Hale House, which has mon. interests, goals, desires, Advertising Representative: National Adv.,rtising Service, Inc.. College Entered in the Schenectady l'ost or- been the custoll1ary place~ The and reasons for being here do nee as senm.t ClaRs ~tnil ~laue~-. members of Union's Campus not have fellowship, In fact, Publlahers Represent a Hve. son Ave .. !'I. Y. C. 420 Mad!· Subscrllltion 15c a L'O!JY; $3 a yeat• Action Committee had .planned community as plain dd com· .delivered anywhol't' in t'l•e l'nlted. to counter the Marine's pres- munlty, lS rather una]tpealing, stat\\ b d' t 'h t' but reality. Inasmuch as com- \mslon noARfl I ence Y' rs n 11 mg some peace munity seems to be gJ.'oup ori· Jos ~PII • 't ,,... Ji' '\S 37 9 41\7 1·· 1· t 'II r !literature. By such a confront a- ented, 1't 1·s a·bhor ... ent to· 1'nd1' · .~ .~ •••. -~\· ·•• \ ... . .. -· o · · .... ··• ' 1 m. n·L '\ , tion, the members ·Of the com- •· JOEL RUBENZAHL, '68 ........................ :177-9430 ..................... Business Manager ; mittee had hoped to raise the Vlduals believmg in t:he value NEIL s. KRAl\llm '70 ............. · ·· .... :!46-8614 ....... · ............. Managing Editor of mdividual thought practice RICHARD BALAGUR ·r;~ ......................... 374-7418 ............................... News Editor ' iSSUe of Whether OT not the • d d . · 1' . 1 ' ALAN ZIEGJ:..ER. 'GL ........................ ~74-7418 . .. ......... High society Editor I college should permit military'· an lSClp me, CLIFF' SAFANE '69... .... ..... .. ......... 372-9730 ....... Fearur•s Editor 1 recruite. rs on campus, and, more Like the Puritans, self-denial G.\f~Y I'Ht•:Yo:->-r ·,;~, 3~3-i!l41 Sports Ed>tor 1's a campus VIrtue a d pra tl'ce I ' generally stimulate discuss. ion · n · c · · of Johnson's Vietnam war. lt doesn't hurt to d~!l~ . any ,JIJNIOR BOARD Richart] Patterson, J1·. • 10 ..... . .................. A~sociate Nf\W::I Editor Dick Daniel '70 ............. .,........ . .. . .................. .... PhotogrRI•hY Editor StP\rC' I~.,ox • 70 ---·····. . .. Ass't }i'eatures Editor longer what you've deJ:ned. .(or , T?e president's move was aiJ: .~hf!.ve .. be.en denied) f~r ~-y~rs. ~ obvl?US attempt t? suppre~s A.ElQ .. J'0,1;l q.(}i}'t .~eed 1!> 1tnow ,Jpn fHmon '70 As~nr-iatP Hpopts E::ditor · Peter Dt·otman '69 ... . . ..... __ Xat.ional A<l,.ertlsing 1\Ianager . the 1ssue .. He has tned to avo1d -what youTe entitled t() as long . the. controversy 'and. debate as ydu kriow what y()u're de- Bill Blumenthal '68. ...... . .................. Ass't Business 1\Ianager SteJJhen Littman \iU . .... .. . ..................... Subscription !\tanager Carl Goldsand '70 ........................................................................ Cin•ulation :Manager Larry Roth bloom '70 .............................................................. Distribution Managet w.h~ch would ha':'e arlSE;11J, ·by ·.'~:·i;tied_ Community as seen here 1 hrdmg the, questlO!l f11om~ .~l!J.e: ·· 'ls massive ·groUJl self-denial I rest of the ~ollege commumt~, · aQetted by blin<'} :r 1gnte()usness_ I I supp()se ~h1s means ·that Pres1- Frederick McNally. 1970 STAFF AmMBERS NE\VS: Neal Gordon, Bill Brelman, Hal Ross, Stephen Glanzrock. FEATURES: Scott Siegler. ·. dent Martm would' rather s.ee · ' SPOUTS: Henry Fein, Jay Blltzman us concern ourselves with sach crucial matters as «What con- Love-Ed Liberal Art$? stitutes proper attire· .at w·est College dining hall?\ and. \ShouTd there be one or two . big weekends per term?\ Such , fear of controversy, and such I blatant disrespect for openness, , frankness, and meaningful dia- l logue seems to be indicative of Union College has a bright future as a trade school if a. tragic and mi~guided_genera- . · h b d · · tlon, a generat1on wh1ch has it continues to e~nphasize tte arts as It as een omg m! not only brought the world to Gentleman: I believe strongly that the Senior Comp. Ed. -cour-ses next year should be created on a love-in basis, with eacll senior giving something of hi:mself to .. tl).~ academic and social com- nibn~tY: · Sincerely, Jerry Sternberg Class ,o:f 196!1 the past. ! the brink of total annihilation, · but now would rather quietly . . dismiss the seriousness of the Love's Labor L<»st Admittedly, the college would be a rather sophisticated situation than face it honestly. trade school producing most competent engineers, pre- President Martin's acti~n leads . ' · . us to only one conclus10n: the meds, physics majors, chemistry maJors, etc. But as long ! responsibility of concern and of as the reputations of the science and engineering depart- meaningful inqu~ry into the real ·. · · · · ul 1 th problems of th1s world, prob- ments contmue tD echpse the humambes, partie ar Y e lems which are far beyond most fine arts this institution will be unbalanced. I of the ti.·iv~a whicll is h_asseled . • over on this campas, will con- . . tinue to reside among a rela- The fine arts at Union are sorely neglected today, and I tively small segment of the fac- . . ulty and the student body the projected expenditures for arts over the next few years~ ,, ;,, ~srnc rel · do not seem to ameliorate conditions. Granted, it is easier 1 • Robert Y. Thurber to obtain funds for science-related projects tt>an it is to~- S I • capture a grant for the development of the humanities, e f-D~naal particularly since proposed government expenditures in the Too~~~ ~~~orp:ast yea . ' • d b tb k d t I\ • VarlOUS latter area have been severely hmite · Y cu ac s ue o sources have bruited about the the Vietnam war But the fact that generous government tnhotion bof ckommunity '\:itho~t · . . . . e out rea of any valid dts- patronization is not readily available to the humambes ~ussion. There is some .idea that should not force this area into a state of neglect. The It arose from coney1~t o~er . . , . . a1 Art campus morals, admm1strabve college has a responsibility to provide a Liber s pro- license, massive apathy, and g ram to students: a program of this nature must be equally cen.sorship. ~very , once in a . . If f t whrle I see It agam, and each 'Fo the Editor: Last weekend a bill of three one-act plays was produced. The munber of man-hours tllat went into each play was Japtastic. Mr. lVieri, wether . :rmt · only directed t\vo of the PkiYS' (one of which he wrote and acted in), but also supervised the entire produc- tion of the bill, from }lrops to publicity, from make-up to sound effects. The amount of energy and time he demanded of himself was more. than any- body could possibly lJ.()pe to give. For almost a wee:k before the plays were scheduled to open he worked day and night. The horrifying realities of this situation are realized when one sees how patheticall~ little credit and recognition the school gives to Mr. Meriwether for all his time and talent. The administration's attitude toward Union's theater program appears to be incredibly naive, if not ignorant. The money strong in both the sciences and the humambes. u ~re ~-- economic pressures: will cause the college to emphas1ze --------------------- the former and allow the latter to struggle along as best ..-. ~~ it can, then Union should drop the facade and call itself 1 .. a •-price to a technological institute. eallege studeu..(;s anil It is a mistake to look upon the fine arts simply as ~ l71-.• the frosting on the cake; the arts provide more to human UCD ,.,:1: beings than entertainment. They are an integral part of a I the nems•taner that liberal education and must l::e treated as such. r r newspopt!•• people J•eatl • •• Expenditures in the areas of art and dramatics, for 1 example, are pitifully small. To improve t~e lot of th~se 1 groups the college would be wise to proVIde them With 1 adequate budgets for attracting high-quality students and 1 faculty and for purchasing badly-needed equipment. I Money in the right plac~ would mean much more to : the college than a major investment in a far-too-distant: fine arts center. The suggestion of a faculty member that 1 the ccllege consider a graduate progra)\!1 in fine arts and 1 architecture through co-operation with Skildmore and R.P .I. : will hopefully receive careful thought by the administra- 1 tion. The possibilities for starting such a program are not ' remote, and the benefits would be manifold. At last count, we had more than 3,800 news- paper editors on our list of subscribers to The Christian Science. Monitor. Editors from all over the world. : The fine arts at Union need attention immediately. I Concordiensis hopes that the college will not continue its 1 policy of promising a renaissance and delivering an abor- I tion. I Groovy Garnet Concordit'nsis applauds the 1967 Garnet and the stl,l- , dents who were responsible for this work. Jack Stokv:is, '67,: deserves particular praise for giving the yearbook a new , direction, (upward), and for introducing some traits which: somehow were lacking in our last few yearbooks, namely : quality and imagination. The '67 Garnet is a fine piece of work; we hope that : this year's Garnet staff will be capable of matching or perhaps even surpassing its predecessor's publication. There is a good reason why these ''pros\ read the Monit<Jr: the Monitor is the world's OlllY daily international newspaper. Unlike lo:cal :papers, the :Monitor foeuses exclusively on'' world news -the importantJ;J.ews. '.\ :. The Monitor selects the news·, it considers m<Jst significant and reports' ·it, -interprets it 1 analyzes it- in depth. It takes·you further illto . the news t1lan any- local paper cap. , , If this is the kind of paper you would like to be reading, VIe will send it to you right a Waf a:i'' :half the regular price of $24:0()'-a year. Clip the coupon. Find ·why men themselves read the ... ,.L ... ruu.w.~ they invariably name it w~S.-(~'~~>~ :papers in the world. ~---------------------------~--~-· The Christian''Science Monitor . \\ '\>!~, ,,_,;; 1: 1 Norway Street, Boston, Massachusett$ 02115 . q Please enter a ;Monitor subscription f<?f. t't\-e name bel n,;}:ri~ ! I am enclosing$ ............ _._(U.S. fundiJ)'for the pcdi;il checked. 0.\1 year ~12 0 9 months $9. ~u\·6 months.~~ Name.- ... --···-· .. -· .. ---·--- .. -· .. ·- .. ·-···-···-··--· .. -- ......... ~: ... _:~~-.-· .. ·-···-···- .. Street- .......................... _ ........ - ... -···- .. -........ Apt./Rm. # ........ .. I City ......... - ... - .. •--··-- .. -- ............... State ..................... Zip .... -- .. ·-···-·· I 0 College student .. ·-····-···-·· Year of grac:luation .. , .. _ ... _ ... _.. I 0 Faculty Jneinher p.cN.65 I ~---------~-------~--~---~-~~~~ ist:{ation seems to understand that stqdents are learning about acting, directing, lighting, make-~ up, scene design, etc_ No one in' the administration seems to realize that this. is where the other half of the drama is-in En En given to run the theater i:s at present only the mininul amount nee~~~- to run a ·ooipj~ mal schedule of producti.ons. The sound system needs -tnu<:h work, as evidenced by the dif- ficulties of this past weeken-d; there is a need for new ligh:ting equipment; and there is aneven greater need to find sorneoiJe who is competent enough. to operate everything ami kee:p it in good repair. Union could u.se at least one, if not two, tnoJ'e faculty n:embers to have a :tle- cently functioning progran <lf drama. As things stand now the administration does not see' .any need for increasing the stalf :J>e- cause of the relatively low -en- rollment in Mr. Meriwetl1er-'s classes, but what they are ,too bl-ind: to see is that he does a great deal more teaching to a ~reat deal m?re students during the preparatiOns for each ]lr-~­ duction. No one in the adlriin- the theater, not the classroom.'· · • It is appalling when one con- sider-s that ·e:xcept for one rourse, offered every other year, Hi: Ps~ the college ,gives no credit for~ practical theater training. Is it hecause Ws not academic en(lagh, or because there is something strange about people who wou 1 d study acting, or is itt\ because it is difficult to test? Mr. l\1:eriwether is tremend- ously over-loaded. He teaches academic courses in dramatica: literature and at the same time is responsible f()r running every aspect of an operating theatre. The school has not .provided the~ Fesources, neither enough money Continued on :P'age 4 Comt11unity Benefit OLD F:OR NEW! 20'ro Trade in A..llowance Toward c GENTLEMEN'S and GENTLE:WOMEN'S new SUIT - COAT or SPORT JACKET YOUR TRA.D,E-IN SUIT, COAT OR SPORT JACKET WILL BE DONATED TO THE NEX::T-TO-NEW-SHOP, OWNED ~~D OPERATED BY 3Juntur f1j ra.gu.r nf §r~ tttrrtaby ALL PROF.l'JS REVERT TO THE COMMUNITY TRUST FUND PAST PROJEdS: CEREBRAL PALSY SCHOOL GIRLS' CLUB CAMP ETC. FINAL ALLOW.A>.NCE DAY NOV_ 11 ~.1~ * TONIGHT .'tii.NINE~~ ·s_AiURDAY ·m SIX. (I E. I TI-IURSDA y. 2:00-4:0 Ec1 • • Hi: Ge Soc Ch Ge1 Ps~ E. • FRIDAY, Dl 9:00-11: Gr• Ec1 En En Hi: So• An Ph Fh Psycl F:tiDAY, Dl 2:00\4:( Co Cll Ec :En :En Fr Sp. Ch Ch Ph E. SATURDAY, 9:00-11: Co: Hi: Ch Fr4 Ge Sp: Bi< Ch Ma Ma Ph Ps~ E. GE E.E E.E Al!J Continue clinch the t by the State < to settled · finish behh won or shai football titl Unlike m 'j ball rivalrie: into the 19 fred series 1960. The G lost four, : to 1967. ThE humiliated years, losin, <~ 35·7 in 196 Alfred wi son Saturd stand at 5-l bart 20-15, Brockport E 24-21, and 1 The Saxons at the hanc team, C. ~ count.

6 Thursday, November 9, 1967 Thursday, I Letters to the Editor , Exan THURSDAY 9:00·11 Ml )-'t~iLI I•!.' tht• :-''!1·1•-n' 1~···1~· ,,f l'nttm Collt·t,:t>. ~~ h•·H··· ~ad~ ~ Y. ~.tt.LH!H.I \lid t.hlll, l 1111111 t\.1 l•·~t·. l'ul•l••at1un t)tlh·••. ~l ht·w·~ t.td~ l'ti!L\!IIg \.'IIIIIPUI!,Y, vu.; }~l'lhHlnit)' t:n:t•t•·oi oil 1 ht• ~llH'III'll<td~ ('n:il l)l (itt' ,IS ~t't \Ill• I c._'J.t:--~ :\loLl[ . \lot tIt' I Sut.s •. r.l•llof] L·• ol l \I'). $.~ Ill I lq• I lllltod . It ,...; I : r· H \ \ \ ·, ... , 'I . \'1-:':\IUit 1111.\R II .• _. 11 .. ,.,, '• -1 t'loh·l .1• q: f. 1-:T. I: t:' i' \I-ll .... ... \'-1:11 ,. hi; \\11:1; HI• H \I·. II 1·: \L ,,;· 1: • · \I.\' /.11:•.1.1.1: I 'I II I. \\ \,.\'I. .; \I:' I'Ll'\• , ... I' 1: I.\. 1 I) h t I',. '~ ~ '·'. I' ' I. I ..; ' ,J I •, • •· · I •\.\ · , • 1:11 gl-1''•' I•' I· ,J ;-.<'' 1 d • I I \' t I I. • \ L\' I I•]• • -, ·-: 't-1,\ jt, .... ;II :I 'I:\ . I .II\ . 'I ~ , ... t 1 . 11· MOll 1111.\lt II 'E\\~: \' ,; ,;, !d•\• 1:11 I_:,, •· dt Jltl 1~ ....... ., Ft:\TllCI·.'-t: ~ .... .-...~· .. !•·r 'l'ttlt'l'\': H.,.:, I· , '·t.' l:l r:.rr ,,. !tll~llll'!'i:'-1 \liLflil)..;t-\1 .\l.Lil<LJ.:IIl~ E:dlltol :,: •. ,\.'!-\ Editor H.~-.:t• :...;,, ll'l.Y J<:,Jtl••r I·'\·' •••r\-.: 1-:•llt••T ~)•llrl:\\' r:d t •• r \ ~\\\' 1.1 It· '\t•\\ :-. l·:rht• •t I' I:· •' .,,_; r :q ltr l·:dtlur \~:-. 1 1-'•·af\llt\ 1-:dllto: \ \\\\' 1 do• :--::.:H\1 IS J::dlilll '.t''\n.tl _\<1\•·riJ~:Il~ :\l;ttl.t/-!t'l ,., ... r Hu~IIlt':-;~ l\'fallaht'l ~til·~· 1 !pt loon :\lo~n:u.!t>l I • I I • \IJ.l! 1 11 11 Jl!-.lllhllii\U 1\lan.n~t·r l\LlfHlgt>J Liberal Art$? Union College ha::: a bri;ht future as a trade school if it continues to emphasize He arts as it has been doing in thr past. Admittedly. the eollege would be a rather sophisticated tradt' school, producing most competent engineers, pre- nwds. physil's majors. chemistry majors, :tc. ~ut as long as the rt>putations of the sc·ience and engmeermg depart- ments eontinue to eclipse the humanities, particularly the fine arts. this institution will be unbalanced. Suppressed Issues To the Editor: This past \I'N'k President Martin dt•ddt'd to lt>t thl' 1\lar.in(• reeruit<'r perform his duties in Wells II oust' ratlll'r than Hale House. ll'hit\h has bPc>n th(.' customary plat'l'. Tht• nwmbers of (lnion·s Campus Action CommittPP had plannpd to eount~:r the l\larine's pn's- em:e by distributing sonw pt>at·P lite'rature. Bv sueh a confronta- tion, the nlc.;mbers of tlw t'l>lll· mitt~:e had hopPd to raisl' tht> issue of wlwtht•r or not the Ctll!ege should permit militar\' reen1itt>rs on caa1pus, and, mur~' generally stimulate' discussion of Johnson's \'iPtnarn \\'ar . The president's mm·e was an obvious attempt to suppress the issue. lie has tried to al'oicl the controversy and debate which would havt> arisen. by hiding the question from the rt>st of the college eommunity. I suppose this means that Presi- dent l\lartin would rather see us concern ourspl\·ps with such crucial n1attcrs as \What con- stitutes proper attire at West College difling hall'?\ and \Shou'c..l thc.•re be one or two big \vee ke nds pc r tl'l\ m'?\ Sur h fear of eontron•rsy. and such blatant disrespet·t for openness, frankness, and meaningful dia- logue seems to be indicativt' of a tragic and misguided genera· tion, a generation which has not only brought thc world to the brink of total annihilation, but now would rather quietly dismiss the seriousnt>ss flf tlw situation than face it hmwstl:.-·. President .Uartin ·s action leads us to only one conclusion: the responsibility of concern and of meaningful inquiry into the real problems of thi!::i world. prob· lems which are far bevond most of the trivia which is hasse led o\·er on this campus. will eon tinue to reside among a rela tively small segmpnt of the fat· ulty and the studPnt body. Sihcerl'lv Robert \i. Thurlwr time it is seen as a panacea, regardle~s of the source's \'iew- ponlt, Community, in its Latin setlSl' of f(•ltowslup, of courst> dol'sn't t•xist lwn'. PeoplP \\'Jthout t'lllH· mo n mten•sts, goals, dt>sirPs, and reasons !or bPlng here do not han· fPHowslup. In fact, t·ummunlty as plal!l O'ld t'Olll· mun1ty, 1s rather unappealing, but realitv. lnasmud1 as com- murllty sL:l'lJis to be group ori· entPd. it 1s abhorrent to ind.i· \'tdua1s bellt'l'tng Hl thl' \'aluP of tndiVldual thought, pral'ttce, <llld dlseipline. Like the Puritans, self-denial is a eampus nrtue and practu:e. 1 t dot>sn t hurt to deny any tonger \\hat you 'n' denied (or have bt't'l1 d~:nwd l for years. ,\nd VlHI dot.!'t nt>ed to know \1 hat ~·ou re entitlt>d Lo as long as you know what you're de· nwd. Comn.unity as seen here 1s massl\'t' group self-denial abettPd by blind nghteousnt>ss. Frederick 1\JcNally, 1970 love~ Ed Gentleman: l bellcve strongly that the Senior Comp. Ed. eourses next year should be created on a love-in basts, with eaeh senior , ginng something of himself to tile acadenuc and soeial com· munity. Sincerely, Jerry Sternberg Class of 1968 Love's Labor Lost To the Editor: The fine arts at Union are sorely neglected today, and the pt·ojectl'd expenditures for arts o\'er the next_ f~w ye~rs do not sePm to ameliorate conditions. Granted, It JS eas1er to obtain funds for science-related projects tran it is to ' ·r Self-Denial \\lj>tun· a grant for the development of the humam 1es, . Last weekend a bill of three onc·aet plays was produced. The number of man-hours that went mtu t>ach play was fantastic. 1.\Ir. .\lt>riwether not only directed two of the plays lone of which he wmte and acted in), but also supervised the entire produc- tion of the bill, from props to publicity, from make-up to sound dfects. The amount of energy and timt> he demanded of himself was more than any- body could possibly hope to ,give. For almost a week before thr plays were scheduled to open he worked day and night. 1 he horrifying realities of this situation are realized when one set's how pathetically little eredit and rPeognition the school gives to l\Ir. Meriwether for all his time and talent. ' · · . · th To the Edttor: particular!~· since propoE!ed ,c:m·ernment expendlttn es m e . Over the past year, various latter area have been sevrrel:v limited by cutbacks due to sou!ces have bruite? abo~t thE., ~... f t th ,_ s P\OVernment n0t10n of commumtv w1thout tlw Yit•tnam war. But t,·e ae a·, generou r . . the outbreak of anv· valid dis- patronization is not readily available to the humamtles . ~ussion. There is son1e _idea that f th ., . - to a state of neulect. The · 1t arose from ronfhet owr should not orce IS <~rea 111 . \' : campm morals. administratiH• colleg-e has a responsibility to provide a L1beral Arts pro- license, . massive apathy, . and (>'ra~ to students. a J>rogram of this nature must be equally eehn_slorslhip, ~tvery . once lln ha o · . . w 1 e see t agatn, anc eac stn>ng in both the sciences and tre humamtles. If fut\~re The administration's attitude toward Union's theater program appears to he incredibly naive, if not ignorant. The money l'conomic pressures will cause the college to emphasize the former and allow the latter to struggle along as best it- can, then Union should drcp tte facade and call itself a tPehnological institutE'. It i:::; a mistake to lool\ upon the fine arts simply as the f 1 ·osting on the cake; the arts provide more to human beings than entertainment. They are an integral part of a librral education :md must b' treated as such. Expenditures in tht.' areas of art and dramatics, for example. are pitifully smalL To imprcve the lot of th:se groups the college would be wise to provide them w1th adequate budgets for attracting high-quality ~tudents and faculty and for purchasing badly-needed eqmpment. ;.Ionev in th(.' right IJlaces would mean much 1nore to thl' colleg~ than a major investment in a far-too-distant fine arts center. 'The suggestion of a faculty member that the ed!Pge eonsider a graduate program in fine arts and archicel'tlli'L' through co-opNation with Skidmore and R.P.I. will horefully receive careful thought by the administra- tion. The possibilities for starting such a program are not remote. and the benefits would be manifold. The fine arts at Union need attention immediately. CmH'ordlt•nsis hoprs that the college will not continue its policy nf promising a renaissance and delivering an abor- tion. Groovy Garnet Cmword~t·nsis applauds the 1967 Garnet and the stu- dents who were responsible for this work. Jack Stokvis, '67, deserves particular praise for giving the yearbook a new din'ction, (upward), and for introducing some traits which somehow were lacking in our last few yearbooks, namely qualit:v and imagination. The '67 GarnPt is a fine piece of work; we hope that this year's Garn.,t staff will be capable of matching or perhaps ewn surpassing its predecessor's publication. Half·p1·ire to ~ollt!ge Q.;t ,,,,,,,,.G/~~ '''''' fae1tlty: the ••e••---~l'''Pe'· tl1t1t nett•sptlJI~·~· P#}''l'le r•end • •• At last count, we had more than 3,800 newH- paper editors on our list of subscribers to The Christian Science Monitor. Editors from all over the world. There is a good reason why these \pros\ read the Monitor: the Monitor is the world's only daily international newspaper. Unlike local papers, the Monitor focuses exclusively on· world news- the important news. The :Monitor selec-ts the news it considers most significant and reports it, interprets it, analyzes it- in depth. It takes you further into the news than any local paper can. If this is the kind of paper you \vould like to be reading, we will send it to you right away at half the regular price of $24.00 a year. Clip the coupon. Find out why new men themselves read the Monitor - · they invariably name it as one of the papers in the world. THE CH~STIAN SCIENCE <Oo<• ('<*'•' \''''... ',; .. ••·~~~ ,...__ • ............. d ......... ~ •-'-• r • --------------------------------- The Christian Seienee Monitor 1 Norway Street, Boston, l\Iassat'husetts 02115 Please enter a Monit01· suhseription foi· the name hPl\w. I am enclosing$ . (U. R. funds) for the 1 ,., ,d cheeked. 0 1 year $12 D 9 months $9 0 G months $1l Name ... ··-·········· Street ........... . City ................... . StatP Zip ... D College student ........ Year o.f p:raclu at ion 1 I I I I I I I I I D Faculty member J'.c\'-''' I --------------------------~-~~~ given to run the theater is at present only the min[mal amount needed to run a ndni- mal schedule of producLom. The sound systt•m nt>eds mut h work, as evidenceul by the dif · fkulties of this past \\'eekend; therP is a need for new light'ng equip1nent; anc! there is aN en'n greater nPed to lind son 1 eorH' wlw is competent cnou~h to operate everything and keep 1t in good repair. Union ccu~d u.st> at lt>ast one, if not two, mort> faculty n-embers to have a de- cently functioning program of drama. As things stand now, the administration does not seC' anv need for increasing the stall' b~­ eausc of the relatively low en- rollment in Mr. Meriwether's classes. but what thev are too blind to see is that he does a great deal more teaching to a great deal m9re students during the preparations for each pro- duction. No one in the admin- istration seems to understand that students are learning about acting, directing, lighting, make- up, scene design, etc. No one in' the administration seems to realize that this is where the other half of tht> drama is-in the theatPr, not the classroom. • It is appalling when one con· siders that exC'ept for one c·c·urse, of<fered every other year, the college gives no credit for practical theater training. Is it becaNse it's not academic eNough, or because there is something strange about people wbo wou'd stNdy acting, or is it' ~eeause it is difficult to test? !\Ir. Meriwether is tremend- ously over-loaded. He teaches academic eomses in dramatic •· literature and at the same time is respcmsible for running every aspect of an operating theatre. The school has not provided the , resources, neither enough money Continued on Fage 4 :llall~ I I) Community Benefit r' Ec En IIi Ps . E. THURSDAY ·~:00-4:1 F:c Hi Hi Ge So Ch Ge Ps. E. \ FfliDAY, D 9:00·11 Gr Ec ,, Ec Er OLD FOR NEW! 20'1o •· . ' Er Hi So Ar Ph 0 Trade in Allowance Toward o GENTLEMEN!9S and GENTLEWOMEN~S new SUIT- COAT or SPORT JACKEl' YOUR TRADE-IN SUIT, COAT OR SPORT JACKET WILL BE DONATED TO THE NEXT-TO-NEW-SHOP, OWNED AND OPERATED BY 3Juntur iGragur nf §rqrnrrtaug All PROFITS REVERT TO THE COMMUNITY TRUST FUND PAST PROJECTS: CEREBRAL PALSY SCHOOL GIRLS' CLUB CAMP ETC. FINAL ALLOWANCE DAY NOV. 11 * TONIGHT 'ti,l NINE .. -. SATURDAY '.til SIX - - sft A ~· - = (; Ci ·~ .Ci I l. .. ' \\ (. ,. I Ph Psyc FliDAY, D 2:00-4:~ Co Cl. Ec F:r F:r r~r Sp Ch Ch Ph E. SATURDAY 9:00·11 Co Gr La Hi Ch Fr Ge Sp Bi1 Ch :VI< Ph Ps: E. C.I EJ E.l All Continu clinch the · by the Stat1 to settled finish behi1 won or sha1 football tit! Unlike m ball rivalrie into the H fred series 1960. The G -~· 1 \' lost four, to 1967. Th1 humiliated years, losin 0 <£ 35-7 in 19t Alfred wi son Saturd stand at 5-1 ~ , bart 20-15, Brockport 1 24-21, and The Saxon! at the han · ' \ team, C. V count. II

1967 1l I) derstand about mak!J·~, o one m to the is-in '· con- one year, for~ Is is people or is itt\ test? teaches a: time every theatre. the~ 4 Thursday, November 9, 1967 ~Exam Schedule • • • • THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7 9:00-11:00 A.M. :Music l.O (Introduction to Music)-in HU 019-Prof. H. Wilson Economics 41 (Money and Banking-in SS 014-Prof. T. Wilson English 13 (Major American Authors)-in HU 115- Prof. Gado English 23 (The Early American Novel)-in HU 112- Prof. Harvey History 59 (The Mexican Revolution)-in SS 113-Prof. Bristol Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. l-in PY 102-Prof. Huntley Sec. 2-in PL 202-Ptof. Calabria Sec. 3-in PY 113-Prof. Girdner E. 18 (Elements of Thermodynamics) Sec. 1-in CJH 301-Prof. Ketchum Sec. 2-in OC -Prof Leary I THURSDAY. DECEMBER 7 • • 2:00-4:00 P.M. Economics 35 ('Comparative Economic Systems)-in SS 010 -Prof. Abbott History 37 (Religion in the Development of American So- ciety)~in SS 213~Prof. Potts . History 43 (EurQpean World of the 12th Century)~m SS 012-Prof. N. Allen German 31 (Readings from 18th and 19th Century Litera- ture) -in HU 110-Prof. Oldenl>rook Sociology 35 (Social Problems and Social Structure)-in SS 110-Prof. S. Fox Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry I)-in BU 201~ Prof. Festa, Prof. Lanese, Pr~f. Reed, and Prof. Sh~efer Geology 10 (Physical Geology)-In PL 202-Prof. Whitney Psychology 24 (Social Psychology)-in PY 113- Prof. Calabria E. 50 (Fortran Programming)-in EE 22-Mr. C. Allen • FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8 9:00-11:00 A.M. Greek Hl (Principles of Greek)-in HU 119-Mr. Ross Economics 10 (Elementary Economics-Part I)-in SS 115 -Prof. Prosper ·Economics 33 (Government and Business)-in SS 104--- Prof. Mercer English 11 (English Literature from Chaucer to Milton)- in HU 116-Prof. Ullmann English 50 (Medieval Literature)-in HU 113 -Prof. Niemeyer History 41 (Controlling Forces in American Economic De- velopment)-in SS 113--Prof. Finkelstein Sociology 10 (Human Society I)-in SS 112-Prof. Willison Antropology 11 (Man and Culture)-in SS 016 Mr. Sather Physics 13 (Electric and Magnetic Properties of Matter and Circuits)-in PL 202__Prof. Grunwald Physics 32 (Electricity and Magnetism I)-in PL 202- Prof. Wylen Pgychology 64 (Seminar 1)-in PY 213-Prof. Girdner F!liDAY, DECEMBER 8 2:00\4:00 P.M. . . Comp. Ed. 28 (Indian Ideas and Ideolog1es)-m HU 115 -Prof. N. Johnson Classics 11 (History of Greece)-in HU 110-Prof. Ree~~e Economics 27 (Statistical Methods)-in SS 016 -Prof. Bennett :English 40 (History of the English Language)-in HU 113 -Prof. Nelson :English 57 (Wit and Taste: The Age of Satire, 1660-1740) -in HU 119-Mr. Renza French 12 (Basic tFrench III) Sec. l-in HU\ 116-Prof. Roberts Sec. 2-in HU 114-Mr. Le Clerc Sec. 3--in HU 114-Mr. LeClerc Spanish 10 (Basic Spanish I)-in HU 117-Mrs. Astiz and Mrs. Vinick Chemistry 14 (The Structure of Matter)-in BU 201- Prof. Reed Chemistry 44 (Advanced Physical Chemistry).-in BU 201- Prof. Festa . Physics 36 (Classical Mechanics)-in PL 204-Prof. T1tus E. 53 (Numerical Methods for Computers)-in EE 24-- Prof. Craig SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9 9:00-11:00 A.l\'I. Comp. Ed. 52 (Graphs, Groups and Games)-in CH 201- Prof. A. Fox Greek 13 (Homer)-in HU 113-Mr. Ross Latin 13 (Latin Literature of the Republic)-in HU 114- Prof. Reece . History 48 (European Society in the 18th Century)-m SS 012-'Mr. Hansen Chinese 30 (Modern Chinese I)-in BH 108-Prof. Woo French 31 (A General View of French Literature)-in HU 116-Prof. Roberts German 11 (Basic German Il)in HU 016- Prof. Oldenbrook . Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish III)-in HU 117-Mrs. Vin1ck Biology 54 (Early Animal Development)-in BH 30~ Prof. Rappaport Chemistry 34 (Quantitative Chemistry)-in BU 201- Prof. Schaefer Mathematics 40 (Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Val- ues)-in CH 206-Prof. Gillette lWathematics 44 (Topology I)-in Cl{ 207---:Prof .. SeUl;en Physics 40 (Introductory Quantum Mechamcs)-m PL 204 -Prof. C. Swartz Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psychology)-in PY 213-- Prof. Pearce E. 14 (Particle Mechanics)-in CH 304-Prof. Male GE. 40 (Structures !I)-in CH 305-Prof. Bturtgtaber E.E. 30 (Transmission Netwotks)-in EE 16-Prof. Ktihl E.E. 48 (Digital Circuits)-in EE 24-Prof. T. Schwarz Alfred • • Continued from Page 8 clinch the title, but were upset by the Statesmen 19-13, and had < to settled for a .second place · finish behind Alfred, who has won or shared all three I.C.A.C. football titles. Unlike most of Union's foot- ') ball rivalries, which extend back into the 19th century, the Al- fred series dates back only to 1960. The Garnet have won two, lost four, and tied one prior to 1967. The gridders have been humiliated in the past two years, losing 49-19 in 1965 and \' 35-7 in 1966. Alfred will be ending its sea- son Satarday, and they now stand at 5-l, having beaten Ho- bart 20-15, St. Lawrence 48-14, Brockport State 14-6, Rochester 24-21, and Cortland State 14-6. The Saxons' only defeat came at the hands of a Division II team, C. W. Post, by a 20-15 count. • The Saxon offense revolves around senior quarterback Mike Johnston, who h!ls been a clutch performer all season. Last week againt Cortland, Alfred trailed 6-0 at the half, but Johnston hit on seven of twelve passes for 143 yards and one touch- down in the second half to bring the Saxons their fifth victory. Johnston is a sixty-minute player, also holding a spot in the defensive secondary. Three weeks ago, he was named to the E.C.A.C. Division III weekly team for his performance against Brockport. Johnston's favorite receiver is his high school teammate, seniox end Billy Knott, who was on the receiving end of a 65-yard T.D. oass last week. The offensive backfield has been hurt by in• juries,· but coach Alex Yune- vich, in his 27th season, is pres- ently calling on two small, speedy, seniors, Tatro and Ben· incase. '71 Harriers 3-2;. Take Fifth In NYS By HENRY FEIN With a 16-47 triumph over Darrow Prep, the Garnet freshman Cross Country Team concluded its 1967 dual meet season with a 3-2 record. At the first of two post- season championship meets, the frosh finished fifth at the New York State Collegiate Track and I:'ield _Association's eighteenth annual Cross Country Champwnsh1ps, held Sat- arday at Le :Moyne College outside Syracuse. Three Garnet harriers broks Coach Ketz's \magic\ six- teen-minute mark ·against Darrow. Taking first place in 15:2'7 was Trinity winner Joe Burgess. John Braham finished second for the Garnet, clocked in 15:50. Not far behind, Bill Walker took third for Union ·in 15:53. Bill Dawson captured fourth spot in 16:23, while Steve Bassel took fifth for the Garnet, sixth over-all, with a 16:40 tifne. The Garnet harriers failed to show their best form over the tough 2.8-mile Le Moyne course. One indication of the Garnet's disappointing performance can be seen in comparison with the R.P.l. score. The Engineers had lost to the Garnet 23-32 in a dual meet, but managed to take fourth spot with 96 points. Union, on the other hand, finished fifth with 125 points. Burgess Leads Joe Burgess was first finisher for Union, with a 16:09 time for seventeenth. Right behind him, John Braham took eighteenth in 16:17, while Bill Walker followed with a 16:21 for twentieth. Steve Bassel was the fourth Garnet scorer, with 17:46 for 44th place. Leo Wisniewski took fifth for the Garnet, his best performance of the season, with a 18:00 and 47th. Richard Copperwasser, still recovering from an earlier illness, finished 49th in 18:21. A real disappointment was Bill Dawson's 53rd finish. He had been running near the \top three\ most of the season. The harriers have their work cut out for them as they prepare for the ICAAAA champsionship to be held in New York on November 20. In the meantime, they can revel over their 3-2 season record, the best posted by a Garnet frosh harrier squad since 1962, when the frosh defeated U.V.M., Lenox, and R.P.I. on the way to an identical 3-2 mark. F i rs t Choice Of The E ngageabl es They like the smart sty.ling and the perfect center diamond •.. a brilliant gem of fine color and modern cut. The name, Keepsake, i.n your ring assures lifetime satis- faction. Select yours at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ REGISTERED ~12sake®· DIAMOND RINGS PIIICES F:;O!Ii SiOO, TO $5000. IUNCS ENUR:GED TO SHOW JEAUTY OF DETAIL, -!) TRAOE·MAill( IIEG. A. II, I'OHD COMPAHY, INC •• tSTABLISHED UU lHOWTO-PLA~ Y.OUR ~NGAGEME~- AND WED;I~~l I Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- I I ment and Wedding\ and new 12-page full color folder. both for I I only 25c. Also, send special offer of beFtutlful44·page Bride's Book. I I '\ I I Name I I · I I Address. 1 I City I I State Zip 1 I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N. Y. 132021 ------------------------------- 7 Beta Tops Chi Psi For Frat Grid Title Beta Theta Pi has emerged as the 1967 intramural football champions by virtue of a 14-12 victory over Chi Psi. Prior to this final contest there had been a playoff for the Betas with De 1 ta Phi. Chi Psi had draw:n a bye. Delta Phi experienced an off day, losing 24-6. Intramural volleyball is now under way. In the northern di- vision AD Phi and Delta Phi are tied for the lead, both with 2-0 mark'>. In the southern league the brothe11s of Phi Epsilon Pi are in sole possession of first nlace, with a mark of 3-0, the best record of any intramural volleyball team. In the eastern league, Beta Theta Pi, fresh from their football triumph is in first place with a record of 2·0. 'Badminton Opens In badminton A D Phi and Phi Gamma Delta are both at 3-0, in a tie for leadership of the northern league. The south- ern league lead is being hotly contested by Phi Epsilon Pi, Delta ,chi, and the Neutrals. All three teams possess identical recmds of 2-0. The eastern leader is Kappa Alpha, 2-0, with Delta Upsilon posing an im- minent threat at 2-1. The All College Tennis Singles Championship for 1967 is rapidly approaching its con- c!uding stages. There are now eight players left going into the quarter-final round. They are Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, Jeff Kurzius of Phi Sigma Delta, Walt Hutton of Delta Phi, Den- ny Meyers of Davidson, Brad Wheatley of Psi Upsilon, Steve Wall of North, Scott Sanders of West, Marty Berry of Phi Sigma Delta, and George Miller of Sigma Phi. Once the Badminton and Vol- leyball seasons have been con- cluded, the fall intramural schedule will give way to the winter slate of intramural sports. Teams will compete in Basketball and Bowling leagues, while individual tournaments will be held in Indoor Track and in Swimming. In addition, an All-College individual Bowling tournament may be scheduled. Booters Second in ICAC Loop Union's 4-4-2 soccer team took second place in the final lCAC standings with a league record of 3-1-1. League champion R.P.l. finished with a 4-0-1 record in the loop by virtue of two week- end victories and this was the Engineers' third straight soccer championship, while the Garnet reached the pinnacle of their soccer success in the ICAC. The difference was Clarkson, as they downed Union 8-3 while sac- cumbing to RPI 5-l. The Dutch- men and the Engineers battled to a fiercly fought 1-1 stalemate midway through the season. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NlCHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. - Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. Lord Jeff Moors Cable Our V-neck pullover, Pure virgin wool. Thick and virile. Cables relay a masculine message. Great worn over a bib. Women cannot help but notice. In a wide . selection of colors that contribute to the total C?xdtement. FROM 11.98 DAVE'S 453 State Street FR 4-9609 Open Thurs. & Fri. 'till 9 .P.M. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. PYRAMID $575 AL.SO $300 TO lla7. =<e~psEake• DIAMOND RiNGS Famous for quality the world over, Keepsake is America's most 11'~ I' OERroiMAiCt D!h. v1anted ,.,~· * ··\- . d O'Good Housekeeping • d1am00 ' CU!RIKTEEI' rJ{i! ring. '\''\ORR!fUKO'II,. n1ng t·nfarj!t•tllo ~llOW detAft. \Jradt•·M.!rkRr-i TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State Street

9, 1967 ng about make- one in' to here the is-in one con· for one her year, redit for Is academic there is ~eople or is it' to test'? tremend- teaches dramatic•· time ·ng every theatre. the, money 4 Thursday, November 9, 1967 I, Exam Schedule THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7 9:00·11:00 A.M. . . . Music 10 (Introduction to lVlusic)-in HU 019-Prof. II. Wilson Econo1nics 41 (Money and Banking-in SS 014-Prof. T. WilsoH English 13 ( Maj!o>r American Authors)-in HU 115-- Prof. Gado English 23 (The Early American l':<>vel J--in IIU 112- Prof. Harvey Ilistory 59 (The Mexican Revolution)-in SS 113-Pwf. Bn:, tol Psychology lO (A First Course in Psychology 1 Sec. l-in PY 102-Prof. Huntley Sec. 2-in PL 202-Pr<'lf. Ca.Jabria Sec. 3-in PY 113-Prof. Girdner E. Ill (Elements of Thermodynamics) Sec. l-in CII 301-Prof. Ketchum Sec. 2-in OC -Prof Leary , THURSDAY. DECEMBER 7 ·~:00-4:00 P.:u. F.conomics 3S ( C0mparative Economic Systems l-in SS 010 -Pn'lf. Abbott History 37 (Religion in the Development of American So· ciety )-in SS 213-Prof. Potts History 43 ( EuropeaB World of the 12th Century )-in SS 012-Prof. 1\'. Allen German ill (Readings from 18th and 19th Cer:~tury Litera· tureJ--in HU llO-Prof. Oldenbrook Sociology 35 {Social Problems and Social Structure)-in SS 110-Prof. S. Fox Chemistry loO (Fundamental Chemistry I)-in BU 201- Prof. Festa, Prof. Lanese, Pr~f. Reed, and Prof. Sh~efer Geology 10 (Physical Geology)-ID PL 202-Prof_ Whitney Psychology 24 (Social Psychology)-in PY 113- Prof. Calabria E. 50 (Fortran Programming)-in EE 22-lVIr. C. Allen ° FfllDAY, DECEMBER 8 r' 9:00-11:00 A.M. = ·t ,, : •· '' (; Ci Greek 10 (Principles of Greek)-in HU 119-Mr .. Ross Economics 10 (Elementary Economics- Part 0-111 SS 115 -Prof. Prosper . . Economics 33 (Government and Busmess)-m SS 104- Prof. Mercer English 11 (English Literature from Chaucer to Milton l- in HU ll6-Prof. Ullmann English 50 (Medieval Literature l-in HU 113 -Prof. Niemeyer Hi~torv 41 (Controlling Forces in American Economic De- velopment)-in SS 113-Prof.. Finkelstein .. Sociology 10 <Human Society 1)-m SS 112-Prof. W1lhson Antropology 11 (Man and Culture)-in SS 016 Mr. Sather Physics 13 (Electric and Magnetic Properties of Matter and Circuits) -in PL 202 Prof. Grunwald Physics 32 (Electricity and Magnetism !)-in PL 202- Prof. Wylen Psychology 64 (Seminar I> -in PY 213-Prof. Girdner· FliDAY, DECEMBER 8 2:00-4:00 P.M. . Comp. Ed. 28 (Indian Ideas and Ideologies)-m HU 115 -Prof. N. Johnson Classics 11 (History of Greece )-in HU 110-Prof. Reec;~e Economics 27 (Statistical Methods )-in SS 016 -Prof. Bennett F.nglish 40 (History of the English Language l-in H U 113 -Prof. Nelson F.ng!ish 57 (Wit and Taste: The Age of Satire, 1660·1740 l -in HU 119-Mr. Renza r~rench 12 (Basic French III) Sec. l-in HU 116-Prof. Roberts Sec. 2-in HU 114-Mr. Le Clerc Sec. 3-in HU 114-Mr. Le Clerc Spanish 10 {Basic Spanish I )-in HU 117 -l\!rs. Astiz and Mrs. Vinick Chemistry 14 (The Structure of rt1atterJ-in BU 201- Pro( Reed . . . Chemistry 44 <Advanced Physwal Chemlstry)-m BU 201- Prof. Festa . Physics 36 (Classical Mechanics)-in PL 204--Prof. T1tus E. 53 (Numerical Methods for Computers)-in EE 24-- Prof. Craig · • SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9 9:00-11:00 A.IH. ' \\ (. , I Camp. Ed. 52 (Graphs, Groups and Games>-in CH 201- Prof. A Fox Greek 13 (Homer>-in HU 113-Mr. Ross Latin 13 (Latin Literature of the Republic)-in HU 114--- Prof. Reece . History 48 (European Society in the 18th Century)-tn SS 012-Mr. Hansen Chinese 30 < 1\Iodern Chinese I)-in BH 108-Prof. Woo French 31 (A General View of French Literature l-in HU 116-Prof. Roberts German 11 (Basic German II) in HU 016-- Prof. Oldenbrook . Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish III)-in HU 117-l\lrs. Vimck Biology 54 (Early Animal Developmentl-in BH 304-- Prof. Rappaport Chemistry 34 (Quantitative Chemistry)-in BU 201- Prof. Schaefer Mathematics 40 (Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Val· ues) -in CH 206-Prof. Gillette Mathematics 44 <Topology D-in CB 207--:Prof .. Seiken Physics 40 <Introductory Quantum Mechamcsl-m PL 204 -Prof. C. Swartz Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psychology l-in PY 213- Prof. Pearce E. 14 (Particle Mechanics l-in CH 304--Prof. Male C.E. 40 (Structures 11)-in CH 305-Prof. Brungraber E.E. 30 (Transmission Networks)-in EE 16-Prof. Kuhl E. E. 48 (Digital Circuits )-in EE 24-Prof. T. Schwarz Alfred • • Continued from Page 8 clinch the title, but were upset by the Statesmen 19-13, and had to settled for a second place finish behind Alfred, who has won or shared all three I.C.A.C. football titles. Unlike most of Union's foot- • ball rivalries, which extend back into the 19th century, the Al- fred series dates back only to 1960. The Garnet have won two, -~· 1 ~> lost four, and tied one prior to 1967. The gridders have been humiliated in the past two years, losing 49-19 in 1965 and The Saxon offense revolves around senior quarterback Mike Johnston, who has been a clutch performer all season. Last week againt Cortland, Alfred trailed 6-0 at the half, but Johnston hit on seven of twelve passes for 143 yards and one touch· down in the second half to bring the Saxons their fifth victory. Johnston is a sixty.minute player, also holding a spot in the defensive secondary. Three weeks ago, he was named to the E.C.A.C. Division III weekly team for his performance against Brockport. Johnston's favorite receiver is his high school teammate, senior end Billy Knott, who was on the receiving end of a 65-yard 'l'.D. oass last week. The offensive backfield has been hurt b¥ in- juries, but coach Alex Yune· vich, in his 27th season, is pres· ently calling on two small, speedy, seniors, Tatro and Ben- incase. 0 <£ 35-7 in 1966. Alfred will be ending its sea- son Saturday, and they now stand at 5-l, having beaten Ho- bart 20-15, St. Lawrence 48-14, ~ , \. Brockport State 14-6, Rochester 24-21, and Cortland State 14·6. The Saxons' only defeat came at the hands of a Division II -' ~- team. C. W. Post, by a 20-15 count. I> '71 Harriers 3-2;. Take Fifth In NYS By IIENRY Fl:ll'l With a 16-47 tl'iumph <)Vt-r Darrow Prep, the liarrwt freshman Crus~ Country Teum conelu<.led ib 19o7 dual meet seu~on \\ ith a 3-2 H·<·ord. At the fir·st of two post· season championship meets, the' frosh finished fifth at tlw New York State CoLlegia.tt• rraek and Fi<.•ld Association's eighteenth annual Cross Cr> u~try Championships, lwld Sat· urday at Le :\layne College outside Syracus(•. Three Garnet harriers broks Coach Ketz's \magic\ six· teen-minute mark against Darrow. Taking first place in 15:27 was Trini·ty winner .Joe Burgess. John Braham fhlished second for the Garnet, docked in 15:60. :\'ot far behind, Bill Walker took third for Union lll 15:5.3. Bill Dawson capture([ fourth spot in lo:23, while Ste\'l' Basse! took fifth for the (]arnd. ~ixth o\·rr·all, with a lfi:40 time. The Garnet harrier~ fa ill'\d to show their best form on•r the tough 2.8-rnile Le Mo)·n-e course. One> indication of the Garnet's disappointi11g ~rrformanee can Ill' seen in eomparison with the RP .1. score. The Engineers had lost to the Garnet 23-32 in a dual meet, hut managed to take fourth spot with 9ti points. Union, on tlw othPr hand. fin ishrd fifth with 125 points Bvrgess Leads Joe Burgess was first finisher for Union, ll'ith a 16:09 time for seventeenth. Rigllt behind him, John Braham took eighteenth in 16:17, 1\\hile Bill Walker follo\\ed with a 16:21 for twentieth. Steve Basse! was the j'ourth Garnet scorer, with 17:46 for 44th place. Leo Wimit\WS ki took fifth for the GarnPt, his best performance of the s~ason, with a 18:00 and 47th. Richard Copperwasst•r, sti1l recovering from an earlil'r illness. finished 49th in 18:21. A real disappointment was Bill Dawson's 53rd finish. He had l>een running near thP \top three\ most of the :Season. The harriers have their '\\'Drk cut out for them as they prepare for the ICAAAA champsionship to he held in New York on November 20. In the meantime, they can revel over their 3·2 ~cason record, the best posted by a Garnet frosh harrier squad sime 1962, when the frosh defeated U.V.l\1., Lenox, an<l .R.P.l. on the way to an identical 3-2 mark. First Choice Of The Engageables They I ike the smart sty I i ng and the perfect center diamond ... a brilliant gem of fine color and modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in your ring assures lifetime satis- faction. Select yours at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ REGISTERED ~12sake® DIAMOND RINGS PII:IC:U f .>N SIOO TO BOOO RI~GS EN LUG EO TO SHI)W Dt.t.CJlY OF DETAIL, 1: HUOE lfARIC AEG A I( 1'0~0 COiolf'APiY INt [!iof.A9\I ~~[0 1892 l H~TO-PLA; YOUR ~NGAGEMENT-AND~EDDI~G I Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- ! ment and Wedding\ and nevv 12-page fu II color folder, both for I only 25c. Also, send special offer oi beautiful 44-page Bride's Boo.~: I 1 Name ________________________________________ ___ I Address--------------------- 1 City ___________________ _ I State Zip ________ ___ I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90. SYRACUSE. N. Y. 13202 I ------------------------------ 7 Beta Tops Chi Psi For Frat Grid Title Beta Theta l'i has ernerged as the 1967 intramural football dJatHpions by virtue of a 14-12 vietorv over Chi P~i. Prior to this lii1al eontt>st thNe had been a playoff for tlw Betas with Ill''ta Phi. Chi Psi had drawn a bye. Delta Phi experit·m·ed an c 11' clay, losing 24·6. Intramural voHcyball is now undl•r way. In the northern di· ,·ision AD Phi and Delta Phi are tied for tht• lead, both with 2·0 lllarko;. In the !iouthern league the brothers of Phi F.psilon Pi are in sole possessicm of first nlaee. with a mark of 3·0, tJ:w hL•st n•cord of any intramural vol'eyball team. In the eastern league. Beta Theta Pi, fresh from thPir football triumph is in first plaeP with a rN·ord of ;2.(). Cadm'nton Opens In badminton A D Phi and Phi Gamma Delta are both at :J.o. in a tie for leadership of the northern league. The south. ern league lead is being hotly contestl'd by Phi Epsilon Pi. De Ita Chi. and the Neutrals. All three teams possess identical records of 2-0. The eastern leader is Kappa Alpha. 2-0, with lJelta l'psilon posing an im· mint>nt threat at 2·1. The All College Tenni~ Singles Championship for 1967 is rapidly approaching its con· eluding stages. There are now eight players left going into the quarter-tina! round. They are Let the lager freely flow Down to Louis', let us go. Jeff Kurzius of !'hi Sigrna Dl'lta. \Valt l!utton of Il<'lta l'hi. Ot•n ny l\IL•yL'l'~ of Dal'icls<IIL, Brad Wheatll·~· of l'~i l'p~ilotl, Stl'\'l' W<dl of :\orth. Sl'Ott Sandt>r~ uf We~t. :\!arty B<'rr~· of Phi Sigma Dt>lta. and <;l'c>rt.:t' }!illl'r of Sigma Phi. Onrl' the Badminton and \'ol [py1Ja1J Sl'!\SOllS ha\'l' IJel'll l'Oll eluded, tlw fall intrarnural st•hpcluh• \\'Ill \i\ t' \\'a\' to tlw ll'int<.•r slatl' .... of iritramural sports. Team . .; will t'OtlLJ>l'l(• in Baskt•lba!J and Bcm li lll!. lL•aguP~. ll'hile indi\'idual tourn~unents ll'ill be hPld in Indoor 'l'ra<'k and in Sll'immin~. In additi()'JI, an -\I I.Collegl' indindual BO\I'li11g tournanH'nl 1na~· 1>1· ,, ·ht•r.Iu l!·rl Booters Secored in ICAC loop l' nion's .J, . .f.:2 smTt' r tE.'at 11 tou k second plal't' in tlw linal IC:\C standing~ with a leagLil' n•eord of 3·1·1. Leagut· champion IU'.I finished with a .J, 0·1 ret'<Jrd in the loup by virtul' of \\.\tl ll'l't'k l'nd victories and th b II' as lht• Enginl'ers· tlurd straight sotl'PI' championship, \\'hill• tiH• Garnt•t reached tht> pinnadt• of tlwir sllccer succpss in thl' IC:\ C Tlw difTerenee was Clarkson. as they downed Cnion 8·~ 11 hil(' sut·· cumbing to RPI 5·1. Tht• Dutch· men and the EnginPl'r·s lJattlt•d to a fiprcly fought 1·1 ,.;ta h•matP midway through tlw st•ast>n. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphe;e NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 -- Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phor1e FR 4-891 7 Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads I I I I I I I THE PEA~lUl STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROA.STED PEANUTS Open Tues. - Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. I , ond Nutmeats from all over I the world. I Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. , 406 STATE ST. i '-------------- ~------------ ftord Jeff Moors Cable Our V-neck pullover. Pure virgin wool. Thick and virile. Cables relay a masculine message. Great worn over a bib. Women cannot help but notice. In a wide selection of colors that contribute to the tt't\fl nyr·itemen!. FROM 11.98 PYRAMtC$375 ALSO $300 TCJ 1878 _ REGISTERED k _:_<eeP-Sa ee DIAMOND RINGS Famous for quality the world over, f :eepsake is America·s most .,Jnted d1amond rmg I. . ·~ ·li··~ l.l!';t /J q,.··~. k\ u,O:~ ~Good Housekc~plng\: ~i't G,.W'I HIS 'if' ·I~,.~ \Ill~~;·:. tr:.<' .... '• ,, .• l,·htl. J , I. \ • ~ I'~ ~ I DAVE'S TIME CENTER JEWELERS I I I 453 State Street FR 4-9609 I i Open Thurs. & Fri. 'till 9 P.M. I 428 State Stree1

Play Reviews Page 1 and Page 5 Concordy Sports Unionite in Israel Page 5 ------------------------------ Garnet Duntped By Williams; ~-----------------------------------· 4) •• c I) 1.1 ~· Injuries, Mud Cut Do-w-n Attack Frosh Gridders BombRPI,S4-0 4-2 Grid Squad To Battle Saxons For Crown Sat. •) J\ Vol. 97- By LEN SIMON ,As Craig Carlson ·limped off the field Saturday, early in the first quarter, the h()pe for a Union victory over Williams for the first time in eleven years vanished. This key injury, even more than the driving rain and muddy field opened the door for a 35-0 shellacki11g by the Ephmen. The Garnet really have noth- ing to be ashamed of. It shaped up as a battle between the crunching ground game of Wil- liams and the flashy passing at- tack of Union, with the Ephmen being considered a slight fav- orite. However, field conditions slowed down the aerial attack from the outset, and the loss of Carlson spelled th.e end for the passing attack which had connected for 14 scores in five previous games. Williams had to contend with only one half of the Dutchmen's dynamic duo, and covered split end Rich Swan with two ol.\ three men at all times. Adding to the prob- lems, quarterback Ken Pearce was sent to the sidelines in the second period with a shoulder injury. Swan played his usual fine game, coming up with two great catches despite the coverage afforded him, and. Scott Kumpf filled in well for Pearce, considering the con· ditions. The biggest thorn in the side of Williams was full· back Kevin Monahan, who rushed for 77 yards in 14 car- ries. The game began .shockingly as Ron McAvoy had his first two .punts blocked deep in Garnet territory. The defense, led by Skip Lynch and Andy Ander- son, stopped Williams cold the first time, forcing a field goal attempt which failed. However, t1:1~ next time they got posses- sioJ1, sophomore tailback Jack Maitland carried the ball four consecutive times for a twelve yard touchdown drive, the last run coming from four yards away on .a fourth down play. Garnet Drive Stalls Several minutes later Fred Schrull recovered a Wililams fumble near midfield, and the ensuing drive brought the ball to the home 12 yard line, where a fourth down pass failed on the first play of the second quar- ter. Midway through the period Player of the Week Williams faced a third-and-one at their own 43. Two fakes into the line bunched up the Union defense, and a wide pitchout to Maitland gave the Ephmen a 14-0 lead by v·irtue of a 57-yard run. As the half neared its last minute, Union threatened at the Williams 29, and Swan amazing- ly got behind the secondary con- centrating on covering just him. Kumpf's pass was short, how- ever, and intercepted at the one. . Early in th.e third period WH- hams showed its power and pre- cision with another sweep by Maitland, this one from 36 yards away. The Garnet found itself consistently overmatched in the second half, as the offense could not rr.ustet a drive, and the overworked defense, despite playing a fine overall game, showed itself to be vulnerable to Williams' outside running power .. Early in the iinal period, two Williams defenders teamed up on Kumpf for a score. Trying to pass, he was hit from behind by one, and the pass was picked off by the other, who trotted into the end zone to make the tally 28-0. About ten minutes later the Williams reserves got their chance, and drove 83-yards over the weary Garnet defense for the final score of the day including their first complet~ pass. Lack of Depth . By JAY BLITZMAN Paced by Jerry Ostrander's four touchdowns, the Union ~ollege freshmen dest~oyed RPI, 54-0, in their season's fi~ale. RP I had collle mto the game at Alexander Field With a 3-2 record, including a win over the Williams College freshmen. '11he Garnet were 0-3, and realized that the RPI contest would be their last chance to avoid a winless season. By the end of the first quarter it was apparent that t~e frosh yvere in command; the only questioin was how high the fmal score would he. Ostrander was able to turn the ~nd t~ree times in th;e first quarter, an~ by virture of his ability to cu.~back aided by the Impressive blocking of the offensive h11e, crossed the goal line ·each time. The scoring in the first half was capped by a long aerial from Dan Kirkoff to Dan Gou:ld, who played a fine gam~ at offensive end. The extent to which the game was dominated by the Garnet was best ex.emplified on a third and nine situation deep in Union territory, early in the second half. Kirkoff handed the ball off to fullback Joe Kirkup, who hit his hole with amazing rapidity. KirRuP cut outs1de and nearly ~roke the play for :a touchdown, gaimng over sixty yards m the process. Kirkup, who was filling in for Larry ~ykes, played an outstandmg game, scoring two touchdowns. ~alfback Steve lVl(!Kensie, seeing extensive action for the frrst time this season, was also impressive, scoring one touchdown on a forty yard dash up the middle. Quarter- back K.irkoff displayed his talent in directing the on- slaught against RPl. He scored one touchdown, and threw for two others. H.is second T.D. pitch came off a fake field goal attempt by Tom Holt. Kirkoff's toss found Ostrander all alone in the end zone. This touchdown was Ostrander's fourth of the game, giving him seven for the season and making him the freshmen's leading scorer. The offensive line finally jelled, opening up gaping holes for Garnet ball carriers. Center Doug Werth played a s~rong game, as did guard Ken Jacoby who made his frrst start. of the season after playing behind Dan Rapalje fo~ the fxrst three games. End Paul Ramsey kicked six pomt after touchd()wns and played a solid ball game. Defensive Line Overpowering More will be at stake than just clinching the first winning •) season since 1956 as the Garnet try for their fifth win of the season Saturday at Alfred. The football championship of the ., Independent Collegiate Athletic Conference will be determined. Union is a charter member of the I.C.A.C., which was formed 1 ) (.. in the fall of 1964. The other members of the conference are Clarkson, St. Lawrence, Alfred, R.P.I., and Hobart. The con- ,, ., ference competes in football, soccer, bask;etball, hockey, base- ball, lacrosse, wrestling, golf, track, and tennis. Next :fall, the conference will hold its first I) Crosss Cou.ntry championship. Victors in the first six sports are determined by won-lost rec- ords, while tournament play •• •. determines the standings in the latter four sports. Union com- petes in an the sports except hockey. Union ho.s 3 Titles I J Three years of I.C.A.C. com- petition have not been extreme- ,, ly fruitful for the Garnet. One tournament championship and two co-championships represent the best efforts of Garnet '' squads. The wrestlers won the 1967 tourney at R.P.I., while the lacrosse team has shared the title with Hobalt and R.P.I. ., each of the past two seasons. It f. ~ Rich PattE prior to a establis!lt~ Bolagur, and Dick Pa1 Co Richar< more pol sociate n was cho1 Chief at night. Pa torship (] Kevin Monahan was a ray of hope on a literally dark day in Williamstown, Massachusetts. While the griders were battered 35-0 by the undefeated Ephmen. the 6'2\ 225 so!)ho more full- back carried 14 times for 77 yards, an average gain of 5.5 yards. This represents the cu.l- mination of quite an accomplish- ment, as Kevin was converted to a new position .this season, after playing end throughout his high school career at Croton- Harmon High School and re· maining at that p()sition on last year's frosh team. Lack of depth has finally hurt Union, as George Flood's squad previously had encountered no major injuries. The two platoon system has cut down the num- ber of capable reserves avail- able, but setting up the system this season will make it that much easier next year, as this year's frosh will add the needed depth to the team, with only one starter lost to graduation. The final two games versus Alfred and Hamilton can still spell the difference between 4-4 re- building year, and an excellent 6-2 mark. Pearce should be ready to. pl~y Saturday, while Carlson Is listed as a possible starter at Alfred. The Garnet defense performed at top efficiency. The defensive line was overpowering, led by the charges of tackles Paul Beaddle and Rick Gallucci. Defensive ends Greg Migonis and Ladd Bethune were also instrumental in the defensive performance. The Garnet pass defense was paced by halfback Rick Plante, who intercepted two passes, and Guy Caruso who picked off one. The line- backing corps turned in a strong performance led by Larr~ Ellis, Tom Duffy and Ed Arnold. ' St. Lawrence and R.P.I., with seven championships each, lead the three year standings, while Alfred is third, with five titles. ·~ Hobart is tied with Union at three championsbi.ps, while Clarkson trails the league with twe titles. •> )v feated I Browne i Saturday's encounter with Al- fred for the I.C.A.C. title will be the Garnet's sec()nd attempt to capture the football crown. In 1964, the Garnet traveled to Hobart needing a victory to ,, I Thxs game was proof of the ability on Coach Allison's squad. F_'or :the first three ball games there was a lack of coordmahon between a strong defense and a sputtering offense. On Saturday the freshman offense moved at will taking a lot of pressure off of the defense. The frosh were able to capitalize on the lack of speed in the RPI squad, and were extremely effective. when running sweeps. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~iiiiiCioinitiiniuieid~oin~P~a!giei 7 i.ii~., Monahan started slowly this season, gradually learning to carry the ball with success. An early season injury stunted his progress, but the past three games have seen him shine as defenses have keyed on half· back Joe James, tl1e Garnet's leading rusher. Kevin Monahan ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1§59 VANVRANKEN AVE. !at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANINt; · WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4 lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb.------------ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb.------------ .50 10 Min .• _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ .1 0 OPEN - 8 A.l\I. to 10 P,M, Mon. to Frl. - Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.lll. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundaya IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED 4 F'or three Generations.' Those Who Know. Have been .. ecommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER MauricelB. gratJ[barl& E. ~'3 Union Graduates in Graubarf Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Mama Bianchi's Fine Italian & American Foocl REALE'S MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP Open Sunday Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee-$1.00 For the finest in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikon, Hasselbl<:!d, Leica, AR Speakers, All Haircuts done by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. Sony Recorders 11 35 Barrett St. Private Banquet Room 1957 Foster Ave. 135 ERIE BOUlEVARD Bou:levard Bowl 3 2 AMF Bowling Lanes Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M. SNACK BAR ON PREMISES FR 2-4446 515 UNION ST. 377·4010 RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Dail:y 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. - '. A brash and likely move for sports coat enthu· siasts involves our newest importation of plaid jackets, checquered boldly for the autumn season. It is playing the game( now and again, to be forth- right. Jump to it! $39.00~60.00 _ The ~~quirt ~l}np OPEN THURSDAJ, AND FRIDAY TILL 9 P.M. 326 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY ., 4 ·J \'' •J ' Balagu nounced of the e Student ( In an: son said: IRl Stai \To c~ he woul< than bw me, an e who risk tation an this war coward i , S!> sta1 a Docto1 mviiiity uary, in cerning , at the J meeting day afte1 EstimE Ra~ demonst: will oft tinue fi, Ho Chi What OUI do, if th irtg on t: tinue to perialisn recent r in whicl resolutio immedia troops 1 remarka· sen timer more th1 he said.

9, 1967 .. . to ,produce adequately. hope to point. This tile lm• in- lqe arts was :a the arts at the neces- nlport. In if it is ·not '68 'The World Will Little Note Nor '-ong Remember ... \ FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE First Term - 1 967 ~68 Abe llneeln Philosophy 30 {Greek Philosophy)-in HU l13:_M,jss Parker Philosophy 33 (Contemporary Philosophical Problems) in Political Science 62 (Judicial Process)-in SS 012 HU 113~Miss Parker Conflicts in Examinations should be reported to Mrs. GroH in the Office of the Registrar Not Later Than Fri-. lay, November 17, 1967. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. listed; •\'~·~n is the code .of the buildings t~ be used. BH-Bailey Hall B tJ ~Buttel'1ield Hall CH~Carnegie Jlall EE-Ele.:trical Engineering Bldg. GL-Geology Laboratory HH~Hoadley House HU-Humanities Center PL-Physics Laboratory PY-Psychology Laboratory SS-Social Sciences Center OC-Old Chapel -Prof. W. Daniels PsycholCJgy 42 (Theory and Practice .of Mental Testing) Biology 14 (Origin and Diversity of Animals)-in PL 202 . in PY 113-Prof. Pearce ~Prof. Styles E. 31 (Fluid Systems Analysis) Biology 48 (Biological Aspects of Cell Physiology) in PL 202 E.E. 44 (Electromagnetic Theory) in EE 22-Prof. Craig -Prof. Lambert Sec. l-in CH 110--Prof. Aubrey Chemistry 42 (Advanced Analytical Chemistry)-in BU 201 1 Sec. 2-in CH 111-Prof. Shanebr()ok ~Prof. Lanese . ·WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6 Mathematics 36 (Real Variable Theory I)-in CH 201 ' 9:00-11:00 A.M. -Prof Maddaus . . Comp. Ed. 20 (The Modern Temper)-in HU 115 Mat~ematlcs 42 (Vector.Analysis and Complex Vanables~ -Prof. Gado C E 1 42 n C(HS ~ 1 () 6 M:-Phrof._'BI)ck. CH 30 4-P f H l Comp. Ed. 50 (Evolution of Matter)-in BH 201 . • 01 . e~ ames ;-m ro · ar ow -Prof. Butzel M.E. 30 (Dynamics of Lmear Systems) m CH 301 Comp. Ed. 58 (Basic Data Processing)-in EE 24 -Prof. Haag -Mr. Plesums TUESDAY, OE.CEMBER 5 Art 20 (Ancient Art and the Classical Tr-adition)~in SS016 9:00-11!00 A.l\'1. Prof. Eckert Mathematics 10 (Cahnc:ulus I) English 24 (The 20th Century American Novel )-in PL 202 Sees. 5, 7. 8-in BU 201-Mr. Behan, Prof. Powers, and -Prof Bradbury Mr. Ri.ley . . . . II History 70 (The Old Russia of Kiev and.liausc. ovy)-in SS 113 Sees. 1, 2, 3-in PL 202-Prof. Bick, Mrs. Corman, and -Mr. Berk Prof. :rvraddaus ' Spanish 31 (Introduction to Spanish-American Literature) Sees. 4,. 9-in EE 22-:Prof. A. Fox and Prof. Holt in HU 014-Mrs. Astiz Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Philosophy 10 (Introduction to Philosophy)-in HU 117 Sec. l-in RTT 201-Mr. Linrlstrom -Mr. Foster Sec. 2-in EE 22'-Prof. Holt Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic)~in HU 119-Prof. Peterson Mathematics, 14 (Calculus III)-in BU 201-Mr. Behan, Socioloe:y 34 (Minorities and Social M<Jvements)-in SS 110 DAY, DECEMBER 4 Prof. Gillette; Prof. Powers, and Mr. Riley -PrQf. Willison 9:00-11:00 A.M. l\rlathematics, 30 (Ordin~ry Differential Equati<Jns)~in BU Geology 38 (Stratigraphy and Sedimentology)-in GL 24 Comp. Ed. 43 (The Politics of Poverty)-in SS 016 201-Mr. Lindstrom and Prof. Seiken -P:rof. Friedman -Mr. Terry TUESDAY, I>ECEMBER 5 E. 20 (Ritdd-Body Mechanics)in EE 22---'Prof. Panlilio Economics 11 (Elementary Economics ~Part II) · 2:00-4:flll P.l't M. E. 44 (Reactor Engineering)-in CH 110-Prof. Haag -in SS 117-Prof. T. Wilson Latin 10 (Principle~ of Latin)-irl RU J19-Mr. Ross ·WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6 History 31 (The New Nation: The United States, 1765-1800) English 59 (The Earlier Romantics)-in HU 110 2:00-4:00 P.M. -in SS 115-Prof. Olton -Pr 0 f. Freu'1r 1 History 10 (Introduction to Institutions and Ideas in the Russian 31 (Advanced Russian I) in HU 113- Chinese JO fBa,.ic Ch:n<'se T)-in BH 108-Prof. Woo Western World, 1000-1715)-all sections in ss 115- -Prof. Petelchuk Chinese 40 (Modern EJC.r.ository Chinese I)--in BH 108 Mr. Berk Philosophy 41 (Social and Political Philosophy) -Prof. Wo? . History 20 (British History to the Wal\ of the Roses)-in -in HU119-Miss Parker French 10 (Basic French 1)-In HU 1 1 ?-~.rr. T,p ClPrc SS 112-Prof. N. Allen P.olitical Science 10 (Introduction to Government)-sec. 2 French 11 (Basic French II)~in Hp 115-:rrof. Raser Politic~l Science 63 (Political ~arties and Interest Groups) in SS 112~Prof. Board French 33 (The French Language ln Practical Use I) -m SS 117-Prof. W. Dantels Biology 36 (Invertebrate Zoology)-in BH 110-Prof. Miller in HU ll~Prof. Raser American Studies 61 (Junior Seminar)-in SS 113- MONDAY, DECEMBER 4 German 10 {Basic German I) Prof. Jonas 2:00-4:00 P.M. Sec. l-in HU 114-Mr. Peschka Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry I)-in BU 201-Prof. Economics 31 (Microeconomics Analysis)-in SS 016 Sec. 2-in HU 116-Prof. Oldenbrook Sheffer and Prof. Sowa Mr. Bryant German 12 (Basic German III) Psychology 47 (History ap.d Systems of Psychology)-in History 11 (A Survey of Modern Europe, 1715-1939) Sec. 1-m HU 016-Prof. Klemm PY 113-Prof. Calabna -in SS 113--'Mr. Hansen Sec. 2-in HU 114-Mr. Peschkat E. 16 (8l~>ctrical Engineering)-in EE 22-Prof. Goodheart History 33 (Nationalism, Democracy and Reform, 1812-1840) 1 German 41 (Enlightenment and 18th Century Classicism) and Prof. Ingvarsson in SS 115-Prof. Potts -in HU 016-Prof. Klemm Russian 10 (Basic Russian I) in HU 114-Prof. Petelchuk ' Spanish 11 (Basic Spanish II)-in HU 014-Mrs. Astiz (Continued on Page 7) .==~~==~~~==~==========~--~------~~---'- DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and <legal Beverages 11 8 - 1 20 JAY STREET there's one place that does it ! • Watch Repairs • Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONI: • Rings Sized • Engraving • Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES • lAW J~WUY ni. <OMPANY 315 State Street. Schenectady FR 4-8219 ~~====~============- Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing • I; ) l - • Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. - - 447-451 Stdte Street Down Town Scllenectady - - ~I Which Union College man is a decision-maker at General Electric? S. Wellford Corbin graduated from Union College in 1930, and joined General Electric as a student engineer. Today, as Vice President and General Manager of the Indus- trial Sales Division, he heads what is probably the world's largest indus- trial sales operation. Decision-maker? You bet! But every Union College grad gets his share of responsibility at General Electric. (They all are) Take Chris Hoyt, '65, a product planner with the Large Generator and Motor Department. He prepares tech- nical literature to back-up product sales, and provides business fore- casts for manufactllrlng services. And analytical physicist Herbert Hoi der, '65, solves design problems on nuclear reactor cores at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory. Responsibility and decision· G E N ERA L • ELECT R I C An Equal Opportunity Employer making come early at General Elec- tric. We're growing so fast and in so many challenging areas that there's no waiting for the big oppor- tunities. How about you? Do you have what it takes to make important de- cisions for General Electric? If you think you do, talk to the General Electric recruiter when he's on campus. 910·34

• 6 to produce adequ~taly. adm inlstration ver hope to point. This till! lm• in the arts there wa5 a the '\'' at the neces- suporl. In if it is not '68 Thursday, November 9, 1967 ·''The World Will Little Note Nor Long Remember ... \ FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE .First Term - 1967-68 ,,~ Conflicts in Examinations should be reported to Mrs. l )e Groff in the Office of the Registrar Not La.fer Than Fri- day, November 17, 1967. Abe tinceh• Phil0s0phy 30 (Gret>k Philosophy)-in HU 113-I\Iiss Parker Phil0sophy 33 CCo11temporary Philosophical Problems) i11 Political Science 62 (Jud:icial Process).-in SS 012 HV 113-Miss Parker -Prof. W. Daniels Psychology 42 ( Th~ory and Practice of Mental Testing) Biol0gy 14 (Origin and Diversity of Animals)-in PL 202 in PY 113-I>rof. Pearce -Pr0f. Styles E. 31 <Fluid Systems Analysis J Biology 48 <Biol0gieal Aspects of Cell Physiology I in PL 202 E. E. 44 (Electromagnetic Theory) in EE 22-Prof. Craig -Prof. Lambert Sec. l-in Cl:I 110-Prof. Aubrev Chemistry 42 (Advanced Ana'ytical Chemistry) -in BC' 20: Sec. 2-in Cll 111-Prof. Shanebrook -Prof. Lanese WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6 c .• ,· Exam. inations wil•l be held. i.n. the assigned rooms. Listed Mathematics 36 <Real Variable Theory I)-in CH 201 9:0~-11:00 A. M. -Prof Maddaus Cmnp. Ed. 20 (The Modern Tcrnpcr)-in HU 115 J below IS the code of the bu•.l.dmg. s to be used. 1 Mathematics 42 (Vector Analysis and Complex: Variables) -PI'of. Gado inCH 206-Prof. Bick Comp. Ed. 50 (Evolution of l\IatterJ-in BH 201 Bli-Badey HaH C.E. 42 (Soil Mechanics J-ill CH 304-Prof. Harlow -Prof. Butzel Q,' BU-Butterfield Hall M.E. 30 (Dynamics of Linear Systems) in CH 301 Cor:np. Ed. 58 (Basic Data Processing )-in EE 24 CH-Carnegie Hall ~Prof. Haag -Mr. Plesums EE-ElectricalEngineeringBldg. TUESDAY, DECEJIA.BER 5 Art 20 (Ancient Art and the Classical Tradition l-in SS 016 GL G I g L b ratory 9:00-11 :00 A.l\1. Prof. Eckert -.eo 0 Y a 0 Mathematics 10 (Calmculus l) English 24 <The 2Dtn CeNtury American Novel 1-in PL 202 HH-Hoad,ley House Sees. 5, 7. 8-in BU 201-Mr. Behan, Prof. Powers, and -Prof Bradbury HU-Humanities Center Mr. Riley History 70 (The Old Russia of Kiev and Muscovy) -i.n SS 113 PL-Physics Laboratory Sees. 1, 2, 3-in PL 202-Prof. Bick Mrs. Corman, anc' -Mr. Berk Prof. Maddaus Spanish 31 ( lntrodllction to Spanish·American Literature) PY-Psychology Laboratory Sees. 4, 9-in F.:E 22-Prof. A. Fox and Prof. Holt in HU 014--l\[rs. Astiz SS-Social Sciences Center Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Philosophy 10 tIn tmduction to Philosophy )-in HU 117 OC-Old Chapel Sec. l-in :RTf 201-Mr. Lindstrom -Mr. Foster i Sec. 2-in EF 22-Prof. Holt Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic)-in HU 119-Prof. Peterson '\' Mathematics 14 (Calculus !D)-in BU 201-Mr. Behan, Sociolo!.'y 34 (Minorities and Social AlovementsJ-in SS 110 I MONDAY, DECEMBER 4 Prof. Gillette, Prof. Powers, and Mr. Riley -Prof. Wi.Jliso 11 , 9:00-11:00 A.M. Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations l--it:~ BU Geology 38 (Stratigraphy and Sedimentology)-in GL 24 ' C0mp. Ed. 43 (The Politics of Poverty )-in SS 016 . 201-Mr. Lindstrom and Praf. Seiken -Prof. Friedman u -Mr. Terry i TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5 E. 20 (Rigid-Body Mechanics) in EE 22-Prof. Panlilio Economics 11 (Elementary Economics - Part III I 2:00-<l:llll P ''t M. E. 44 (Reactor Enginc-ering)-in CH 110-Prof. Haag e 1 tl I -in SS 117-Prof. T. Wilson Latin 10 rPrincip 1 P'i nf Latinl-h HU 119-Mr. Ross WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6 History 31 (The New Nation: The United States, 1765-1800): English 59 (The Earlier RomanticsJ-in HU 110 2:0(]4:00 P.M. -in SS 115-Prof. Olton ' -Pr~f. F'retl'\' 1 History 10 (Introduction to Institutions and Idea~ in the R11ssian 31 (Advanced Russian II in HU 113· Chinese 10 r R~<>ic Ch'•1<'~<' r l-in BH 108-Prof. Woo Western World, 1000-1715l-all sections in SS 115- -Prof. Pctclchuk ChinesP 40 r Modern F.:xpnsitorv Chinese I )--in BH 108 Mr. Berk Philosophy 41 (Social and Political Philosophy) -Prof. Wofl · History 20 (British History to the War of the Rosesl-in -in HUJ19-Miss Parker French 10 (Basic F'rcnch l)-in HU 1 1 ~-'!r_ T,p Cl0rc SS 112-Prof. N. Allen Political Science 10 <Introduetion to Government)-sec. 2 F'rench 11 (Basic French II) -in HU 115-Prof. Raser Political Science 63 (Political Parties and Interc-st Groups) in SS 112-Prof. Board F'renrh 33 (The French Language in Practical Use I) -in SS 117-Prof. W. Daniels Biology 36 <Inwrtebrate Zoology l-in BH 110-Prof. l\lillcr in HU 115-Prof. Raser American Studies 6l (Junior Seminar )-in SS 113- MONDAY, DECEMBER 4 German 10 (Basic German I) Prof. Jonas • ~ 2:00-4:00 P.M. Sec. l-in HU 114--Mr. Peschka Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry I )-in BU 201-Prof. Economics 31 (Microeconomics AnalysisJ-in SS 016 Sec. 2-in HU 116-Prof. Oldenbrook Sheffer and P'mf. Sowa Mr. Bryant German 12 (Basic German III) Psychology 47 ( !Iistory and Systems of Psychology) -in History 11 (A Survey of Modern Europe, 1715-1939) Sec. l-in HU 016-Prof. Klemm py 113-Prof. Calabria -in SS 113-Mr. Hansen Sec. 2-in HU 114--Mr, Peschka E. 16 (8l~>ctrical Engineering l-in EE 22-Prof. Goodheart History 33 (Nationalism, Democrac·y and Reform, 1812-1840) German 41 (Enlightenment and 18th Century Classicism) and Prof. Ingvarsson in SS 115-Prof. Potts -in HU 016-Prof. Klemm 1 Russian 10 (Basic Russian I) in HU 114-Prof. Petelchuk Spanish 11 (Basic Spanish II)-in HU 014--Mrs. Astiz (Continued on Page 7) I -----===~~==~~~~~~============~------~ -------------------------------~--------------- •11 • ! 4ti \\ I I ! , l ,I • DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 11 8 - 120 JAY STREET e Watch Repairs e Rings Sized • Engraving e Diamonds Reset • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE 0 Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES • an - = -\'IMW JkWELRY Ul1111.. (()MPAUY 315 State Street. Schenectady FR. 4-8219 = - I U __ ) O'''IMP;; = rfraditi011al Natural Shoulder Clothing .~--~ .... ·~·· ............. I t '• \\\\'·- :A:nalytieal Pfiysie \'· - . . ~ . ... !' Which Union College man is a decisiDil-maker at General Electric? J ( Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Down Town Schenectady .h rCn • - - == - &£ - = • I) ... .. S. Wellford Corbin graduated from Union College in 1930, and joined General Electric as a student engineer. Today, as Vice President and General Manager of the Indus- trial Sales Division, he heads what is probably the world's largest indus- trial sales operation. Decision-maker? You bet! But every Union College grad gets his share of responsibility at General Electric. (They all are) Take Chris Hoyt, '65, a product planner with the Large Generator and Motor Department. He prepares tech- nical literature to back-up product sales, and provides business fore- casts for manufacturing services. And ana lytica I physicist Herbert Holder, '&5, solves de:s;gn problems on nuclear reactor cores at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory. Responsibi.lity and decision- GENERAL ELE ~TRI C An Equal Opportunity Employer maldng come early at General Elec- tric. We're growing so fast and in so many challenging areas that there's no waiting for the big oppor- tunities, 1-!ow about you? Do you have what it takes to make important de- cisi()ns for General Electric? If you think you do, talk to the General Electric recruiter when he's on campLJs. 9IO·H

I) •• ·• ,, l.t ~· In Conclusion Page6 Skidmore Calendar Page7 Founded at Union College 1877 •) r Vol. 97 N/!::1. 9 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1967 PRICE 15 CENTS than ,, Garnet of the ed. The of the ., mber of formed ,, (.. Qther are Alfred, con- ,, • football, base- golf, fall, its first •) sports rec- play •• · • in the on com- except ', .ct. com- 11 .reme· One and Garnet 1 ' won the while shared R.P.I. ,, seasons. with lead while titles. ·~ at while with with At- will q attempt crown. oJ to ctory to 7 •) Rich Patterson relaxes with his s~aff (perhaps for the last time in 30 weeks I, prior to assuming Conco·diensis editorship. leaders of the present journalistic lit establis!1tnent stand behind him, f~om the left; Steve Fox, Cliff Safone, Richard Balagur, retiring editor, Joseph A. Mann, Jr., Neil S. Kramer, Gary Prevost, and Dick Daniel. Missing is Joe Rubenzahi-Business Manager. --------------~--------------------~------------· e Patterson Elected Concordiensis Editor Richard E. Patterson, Jr., a sopho- more political science major and as- sociate news editor of Concordiensis, was chosen as the new Editor-in- Chief at an election held Tuesday night. Patterson will assume the edi- torship on January 3, 1968. He de- \'. feated Richard Balagur and Jeff Browne in the contest. I Balagur, the News Editor, has an- nounced plans to contest the voting of the entire Business Staff in the Student Council next Monday. In an acceptance statement, Patter- son said: \We hope to continue mov- IRCSpeaker States Bombing Of Little Effect ing the Concordiensis in the direc- tion of the high standards of pro- fessionalism established in the past. Editorial policy will try to seek a greater dialogue with fraternities and will attempt to mobilize student par- ticipation in guiding the future of the college.\ Outgoing Editor-in-Chief Joseph Mann voiced his feelings on the new Editor: \I feel confident that Con- cordiensis will enjoy a successful year under Mr. Patterson. \His work in the news department of Concordy has been outstanding and I am sure that as editor he will con- tinue to produce work of equally fine quality.\ In his first official act. Patterson re-appointed Joel Rubenzahl to the position of Business Manager. All other staff positions will remain un- changed until next term, except for the office of Features Edttor. Ctif:l' Safane, presently filling the features' slot, has relinquished his position to Steve Fox, who will take over as Features Edltor in January. Patterson, a: native of Greig, New York, is a Nott·Scholar and a mem- ber of the Stu,dent Council. He has worked on OQ.ncordiensis since his freshman year, holding positions from reporter to Associate News Editor. President Martin Defines Student Responsibilities In a Convocation address this morn· ing, President Harold C. Martin re- minded students of the responsibilities wh1ch must accompany student free- dom: \The fundamental principle is that of freedom within order, rather than freedom alone, because continu- mg freedom is not possible without order: the two cannot be separated, and the balance between them is al- ways delicate in a healthy society.\ President Martin went on to point out that \we must all be ready to tolerate arguments and positions we may dislike or even abhor:\ and \we must live within the law, even when we put our greatest energies toward changing it.\ Guarantees Commenting on the \guarantees of freedom to which students are en- titled,\ President Martin said: \The rights of representation, the pro- cedures of redress, protection against illegal coercion or punishment, and provision for free discourse . . . are all built into our structure and are jealously guarded.\ President Martin cited \students on some campuses (who) have shown themselves ready to abridge the free- dom of others to speak and act with- in the law, claiming that only their consciences speak the truth.\ \Al- though no one will question the short- term success of their tactics, it is clear that the suppression of freedom does not preserve freedom,\ Martin said. With regard to the question of banning military recruiters from the campus, the President said: \Unless we are to ban all recruiters from cam- pus, I can not see how we can honest- ly ban any whose interests coincide with the career interests of students.'' President Martin praised \The de- cency and sensitivity to others rights which students have shown here,\ calling this a \sign of strength, not of weakness.'' Prefers Residential Speaking on the topic of in loco parentis, the President said that \the rule of parental responsibility and authority is far from being a one-way affair,\ and pointed to the advantages students sometimes enjoy under this system. With regard to residential policy, Martin said \My own preference, quite frankly, is for full residence or some- thing as close to it as we can achieve.'' The decision of the ACC to propose a change in the living policy will ultimately be scrutinized by the trust- ees, .since the responsibility for \fi- nance and the general character of the college\ rests with them. Guidelines Martin re-iterated the guidelines put forth in the revision of parietals passed last spring: \sexual inter- course, deviant sexual behavior drunkeness and destruction of prop: ert:y - are all subject to disciplinary actwn up to and including dismissal.\ On the problem of drugs at Union and the accompanying question of th~ college's role in individual morality the President said: \If any of yo~ a~e tempted to try drugs just for ktcks, I can only warn you of the risks you run, medicaUy and legally.\ \The charge that . . . thal .decisions about sexual conduct, the use of drugs and ~lcohol are matters of private morality and no concern of the col- lege ... is nonesence unless 'college' means 'anarchy.'\ \Some patters of order and safety must be enforced otherwise, our freedom will be cur: tailed by forces over which we will have no control at all.\ Frats Fraternities Martin claimed, \have at much at stake in enriching the life they live as any other group.\ Cultural cross-fertilization, one .of the advantages gained by the abolition of frats at Williams, is \achievable within the fraternity system,\ Martin said, \if the memberships really want to achieve it.\ SEEK $12.5 MILLION BY 1970 Union College plans to raise $12.5 million for buildings and endowment by the college's 175th birthday in 1970, President Harold C. Martin told some 200 guests at a two·day leader- ship conference this past weekend. end. Of the total sought in the intensive, three-year campaign, some $3.8 million has already been secured, Martin said in a speech at the concluding leader- ship conference luncheon at the Holi- day Inn on Nott Terrace Saturday. Dea/1 with Plans The two-day parley dealt with the college's operations and plans includ- ing the current capital fund campaign. The guests, who included alumni, parents, friends of the college and community leaders, are expected to play important roles in the campaign. Participating in the intensive con- ference sessions were students, fac- ulty, alumni and trustees of the col- lege. President Martin said Saturday that the total of gifts in hand includes a previously-unannounced grant of $50,000 from the Stephen J. Potter Memorial Foundation of Ft.. Edward_ The grant will be used to build tne Stephen J. Potter Memorial Materials Testing Laboratory, for which ground has already been broken. The late Mr. Potter was a contracting supplies ., dealer in Ticonderoga. The founda- tion which bears his name came into being after the death of his widow two years ago. Also included total were Clarkson Po.tter, '50, New York pub- lisher, cha:s with Trustee Kenneth E. Whalen, '49 during leadership Conference. \To call a man· a coward because he would rather burn his draft card than burn babies with napalm, is to me, an extension of language. A man who risks imprisonment, loss of repu- tation and his entire future to protest this war and uphold his beliefs, is no coward in my opinion.'' , S() stated Rabbi Abraham Feinberg, a :poctor of Law and a Doctor of D1vinity who visited Hanoi last Jan- uary, in answer to a question con- cerning draft card burners asked him at the International Relations Club meeting in .Hale House last Thurs- day afternoon, Nov. 9. Union-Concord Associate the I federal government for a science- engineering center, $400,000 from General Electric Co. in the form of a GE 415 computer and related equip- ment, and an anonymous gift of $500- 000. All three had been announced previously. President Martin said the $12.5 million would be used to complete the science-engineering center; to renovate Andrew Carnegie Hall and construct an addition, converting that 1910 structure into a \college center\ or student union; to add to the Schaffer Library building; and to support scholarships and faculty salaries through the college's endow- ment. ., 4 o}. ' Estimating the effect of anti-war - Rabbi Abraham Feinberg , 0 demonstrations in this country on the will of the North Vietnamese to con- tinue fighting, the Rabbi said that Ho Chi Minli told him \no matter what our friends in the United States do, if they do anything, we are carry- ing on the war. We are going to con· tinue to fight against American Im- perialism.'' The Rabbi prai!led the recent referendum in San Francisco, in which 76,000 people voted for a resolution calling for a cease-fire and immediate withdrawal of American troops from South Vietnam, as \a remarkable indication of American sentiment against the war. This is more than just a straw in the wind,\ he said. Co11tinued on Page 2 By RICHARD BALAGUR Union College has been asked to serve as a \senior institution\ to help and advise Concord College, West Virginia, a school defined as .. out of the main stream of higher education,\ under a $97,000 request submitted Wednesday in Washington under Title III of the Higher Educa- tion Act of 1965. One of Six Concord College is one of six state schools in West Virginia, and has an enrollment of 1700 men and women. It has a small percentage of Negroes and draws it students predominantly from the immediate area. Most of its students are stdying to become teach- ers of primary and secondary schools in W.Va. The proposed project is similar to the association between Harvard Uni- versity and Miles College, a Negro school in Mississippi, although on a more formal basis. Early this year Concord received a $10,000 feasibility grant under Title III to study the advantages of such an association. Concord chose to examine such a project with Union. According to Dean of Faculty Theo- dore Lockwood, the chances are quite good that it will go thr()ugh. Feasi- bility grants are not given unless the government is optimistic about the project's worth. First Draft A preliminary draft of the pro- posed project .reviews three areas of cooperation. In the area of interna· tional education Concord is associated with the University of Dakar, Sene- !lal, one of Africa's leading univer- sities. Union has had a long associa- tion with St. Andrews in Scotland and the Swiss Technical Institute (ETH) in Zurich. One possibility in this area is a triangular relationship between Concord, Dakar and Union. Concord, which is completing a $2.8 million facility for the arts and which has a long history of preparing teach· ers for the arts, would be of assistance to Union in its planning. Similarily, Union, which has developed a pro- gram stressing the interdepartmental study approach for students who will not major in the arts and is affiliated with the professional Northeastern New York Philharmonia and the reg- ional Northeastern New York Student Orchestra, might be suggestive i11 the developmenll of greater artistic activ- ity in West Virginia. Martin Lichterman, the Dean of Humanities and Social Science at Union, called this area \fantastically beautiful and ideal for development as a recreation center for the Wash- ington ~rea.\ When the new inter- state highway is completed this area will only be a 5 hour drive from Washingtl>n. Tradition Union also has an excellent science faculty and a long tradition in the sciences. Concord is encouraging more students to seek an education in the sciences. Both institutions, but es- pecially Concord, could gain from a review of student interest in the sci- ences; as a major and as a part of generaJ education. In addition to these general areas the .colleges hope the project will make the identification of faculty, administrators, and students much easier. Un~on should \gain an appre- ciation· of the problems confronting an institution with a different mis- sion in a different environment, a study which often ieads to a better understanding of one's own goals and purposes.\ Other poss~bilities mentioned by the schools are joint projects in the arts and the exchange of students for a term or year. Lichterman also mentioned cooper· ation with Concord as a center for economic development in West Vir- ginia. He said, \The economic de- velopment of an underdeveloped area, West Virginia, and an underdeveloped country, Senegal, are similar in many respects and might be an interesting area of study for our economics and sociology majors. Continued on Page 2 Course Evaluation Forrns Distributed To Students Students now have an opportunity to register their opinions about cour- ses and professors. The course eval- uation poll is being distributed in all living units this evening. Prepared by Steve Glanzrock, Pete Siegel, and Bill Breiman, the poll is based on similar studies conducted recently at Colgate, Trinity, and Pur- due. 33 Questions The questionnaire consists of 33 questions that fall in six categories: general information (about the stu- dent and the course), course work (more specific questions about the course), class meetings (an evaluation of the classes), instructor (his con· tributions to the course), laboratory, and extended survey questions. The last three pages of the ques- tioonaire are devoted to unstructured questions where the student is allowed space to enlarge on any previous an- swers, and offer suggestions for im- proving the course described. The 33 questions are to be answered in regard to ali three of the courses the students is taldng. The answer sheet at the end of the questionnaive has spaces for three answers per question, and there are three un- structured question sheets. Students are asked to fill out pages 5-8 of the questionnaire, tear them off, and hand them to the representative when he comes by their rooms to pick them up Sunday evening. Livers-Off Students living off campus may ob- tain questionnaires in the Library, and are requested to return the com- pleted parts there by Sunday evening. Glanzrock said that the three stu- dents hope to publish the results of their poll evaluation in booklet form soon after the results are tabulated in January of 1968.

2 Viet Bombing Decr~ed • • • Continued fl'Om ·Page 1 He cited a credibility gap between what the government says about the bombing of Novtb Vietnam and what he saw in Hanoi. \When we went to Hanoi in January of 1967, the gov- ernment was claiming Hanoi wasn't being bornl>- ed,\ he said, \but I saw houses -reduced to rubble, schools destroyed, and children that had been burned with napalm.\ The :Rabbi described a splinter bomb of almost 300 tiny bits of metal that e\plode outward .as the bomb falls, and mutilate people. They havE no effect on concrete and metal. \Such conduct is unworthy of the U.S. which calls itself a civil- ized and, sometimes in church, a Christian conn· try. Corrupt Morality tecting the freedom of those whom they regard as their brothers.\ The division of the two coun- tries is purely artificial and does not exist in reality, he declared. \When you say that we'll stop the bombing you are asking for surrender, because the main if the North Vietnamese stop their infiltration, issue is who will rule Vietnam,\ the rabbi ob- .served, \and if the infiltration stops, the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese soldiers in the South will be wiped out by the U.S . .and Allied troops, and the U.S., they fear, will take over the entire country,\ The Rabbi said he did not believe the Viet Cong are all Communists; but rather any South Vietnamese who wants the war to end, the Amer- - CORRECTION- .j) . • Thursday, November 16, 1967 Thursday, Leadership Conference ... ialized learning with its inevitable vocational •} interest. ,, Pr< Continued from Page 1 \In 1970,\ he concluded, \we shall cele]Jrate our 175th anniversary and in that year we trust that our efforts and the effmts of our alumni and friends will help us celebrate the birthday of the second oldest college in the state by comple- tion of olU' initial campaign for $12,500,000 in capital funds.\ He added that subsequent dl'ives would aim at the college's announced goal of $30,000,000 in the next decade. New Challenges In other phases of the 'leadership conference, Dr. Theodore D. Lockwood, dean of the faculty at Unilm and President-elect of Trinity College, told the guests that trends in higher education pose particular chal:lenges to the small, private, liberal arts college. Despite those developments, Lockwood added-1 \I am confident that Union College will stana not only for outstanding academic competence · but also for that greatness which looks beyond the immediate to the ultimate, which seeks those idea>ls that lift man from the potter's bench to the stars.\ Lockwood made his remarks in a talk on \Higher Education in the Next Decade,\ deiivered at a dinner Friday evening in the Holiday Inn. The conference guests, who cal,lle from as far away as Louisiana and Florida, also heard panel • discussions by students and faculty members on \The Union Scene- What's Happening?\ Sessions were . he'ld on the campus Friday afternoon and Saturday. Friday evening the guests attended receptions held at the homes of President Martin and Dean Lockwood on the college grounds. · Es< I Two Un a prowler and Davie unable to could l>e sure exac stolen. Accord! Fox, the years old, grey-whit< entered :h ''When people say to me 'let's bomb the hel'l' out of them and get the war over', I consider this the epitome of corrupt morality. ·We must begin to think of these .people (the Vietnamese). as human .beings. The military mind thinks of people not as human beings but as numbers ·on a count sheet to be killed OF kept alive,\ be Rabbi said. Concordiensis regrets that an article last week stated that no one of importance attended the Mountebank's performance and reception Friday night November 3. It has come to our attention that both the President of the Stratford (Ontario) Shakespeare Festival and Jacques Courtiene,. a French Cultural Attache from ~ew York, attended the events. Among the problems to be faced, he said, are the growing student population, the trend toward more mechanized teaching, the rapid .growth of tax-supported institutions as the prevailing type in America and an increasing tendency toward· spec- Conference guests wei·e housed at the Van Curler Hotel. ·) while Cle Saltzman awoke an· \' wallet cor had been stolen. Sa He asserted that the bombing of tlte North will not end the war or cut the infiltration of the South, but only stiffen the resistance of the North Vietnamese. The war, he said, \is basically a civil war in which the U.S., as I see it, •has intervened.\ The North Vietnamese regard infU tration from the North as \fraternal help in pro· Also, the Righteous Brothers will appear. this Friday, November 17,. at Siena, not RPl as stated. THE PEANUT STORE Moth.er Ferro's Restaura.at Specializing in Italian • American food Featuring PLANTERS .Iii OT ROASTED PEANUTS I Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar and Nutmeats from all over 1 the world. 406 STATE ST. First Choice Of The Engageables They like the smart styling and the perfect center diamond ... a bri II iant gem of fine color and modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in your ring assures I ifetime satis- faction. Select yours at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ REGISTERED I . l ~12sak:e® DIAMOND RINGS Free Parking PltleH F •• OM $100. U S!OOO IIINGS ENLAAG.[O TO SH!)W DUUTY Of DETAIL. ~ TfiADE·MARK REGo. A. H. POHD COMPI\II't, lflC .•. tSTMLISilED 1092 PIZZA Dl 6-9554 f HOW T~PLA; YOUR~NGAGEME;TAND WED;I~~- 1 Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- ! ment and Wedding\ and new 12-page full color folder, both for I only 25c. Also, send special: offer of beautiful44-page Bride's Book. I ~ 1 Name _____________________________________ _ l Address---------------------- 1 City ___________ __,. ____ ~--- ~ State Zip ____ _,_ __ ..__ l~~~~~~IAMON~RI~S~~:~~~~~:~~~~~~- 1115 Banet! St. 424 State Street Schenectady, New York RAYTHEON COMPANY ••• involved in sophisticated electronic systems utilizing state-of-the-art techniques ••• will have CAMPUS INTERVIEWS January 11, 1968 Product lines include: Communications, Radar, Missiles, Space, Ocean Systems, Advanced Components. Openings for: BS, MS, and PhD Candidates in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING MECHANICAL ENGINEERING INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS PHYSICS For work in: RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT DESIGN MANUFACTURING VALUE ENGINEERING FIELD ENGINEERING RELIABILITY ENGINEERING ENGINEERING WRITING Sign up for interviews through your Placement Office, or write Manager of College Relations, Raytheon Company, 141 Spring Street, Lexington, Massachusetts 02173. ·EXCELLENCE. IN ELECTRONICS An Equal Opportunity Employer with Max9hulman (By the a11thor of \Rally Round the Flag, Boys!\ \Dobie GiUis,\ etc.) · FOOTBALL FOR SHUT-INS At next Saturday's football game while you are sitting in your choice student's seat behind the end zone, won't you pause and give a thoug·ht to football's greatest and, alas, most neglected name? I refer. of course, to Cham pert Sigafoos. Champert Sigafoos (1714-1928) started life humbly on a farm near Thud, Kansas. His mother and father, both named Walter, were bean-gleaners, and Champert became a bean-gleaner too. But he tired of the work and went to Monbma where he got a job with a logging firm. Here the erstwhile bean-gleaner worked as a stump-thumper. After a month he went to North Dakota where he tended the furnace in a granary (wheat-heater}. Then he drifted to Texas whe:re he tidied up oil fields (pipe-wiper). Then to Arizona where he strung dried fruit. (fig-rigger). Then to Kentucky where he fed horses at a breeding farm (oat- toter). Then to Long Island where he dressed poultry (duck-plucker). Then to Alaska where he drove a delivery van for a bakery (bread-sledder) _ Then to Minnesota where he cut up frozen lakes (ice-slicer). Then to Nevada where he determined the odds in a gambling house (dice- pricer). Then to Milwaukee where he pasted camera lenses together (Zeiss-splicer). Finally he went to Omaha where he got a job in a tan- nery, beating pig hides until they were soft and supple (hog-flogger). Here occurred the event that changed not only Champert's life, but all of ours. Next door to Champert's hog-fioggery was a mooring mast for dirigibles. In flew a dirigible one day, piloted by a girl named Graffa von Zeppelin. Champert watched Graffa descend from the dirigible, and his heart turned over, and he knew love. Though Graffa's beauty was not quite perfect-one of her legs was shorter than the other (blimp-gimper)-she was nonetheless ravishing, what with her tawny hair and her eyes of Lake Louise blue and her marvelously articulated haunches. Champert, smitten, ran quickly back to the hog-fioggery to plan the wooing. To begin with, naturally, he would give Graffa a pres· ent. This presented problems, for hog-flogging, as we all know, is a signally underpaid p1·ofession. Still, thought Champert, if he had no money, there were two things he did have: ingenuity and pigskin. So he selected several high grade pelts and stitched them together and blew air into them and made for Graff a a perfectly darling little replica of a dirigible. \She will love this,\ said he confidently to himself and proceeded to make ready to call on Graff a. First, of cou1·se, he shaved with Personna Super Stain- less Steel Blades. And wouldn't you? If you were looking to impress a girl, if you wanted jowls as smooth as ivory, · dewlaps like damask, a chin strokable, cheeks fondlesome, upper ljp kissable, would you not use the blade that whisks away whiskers quickly and slickly, tuglessly and nicklessly, scratchlessly and matchlessly?. Would you not, in short, choose Personna, available both in Injector style and double-edge style? Of course you would. So Champert, his face a study in epidermal elegance, rushed next door with his little pigskin dirigible. But Graffa, alas, had run off, alas, with a bush pilot who spe- cializ~u in dt·opping limes to scurvy-ridden Eskimo vil- lages (fruit-chuter). Champert, enraged, started kickinS\ his little pigskin blimp ,all over the place. And who should walk by just then but Jim Thorpe, Knute Rockne, Walter Camp, and Pete Rozelle I They walked silently, heads down, four discouraged men. For weeks they had been trying to invent football, but they couldn't seem to find the right kind of ball. They tried everything-hockey pucks, badminton birds, bowling balls, quoits-but nothing wo1·ked. Now seeing Champert kicking his pigskin spheroid; their faces lit up and as one man they hollered \Eureka!\ The 1·est is history. * * '* @1967, Max Shulman Speaking of kicks, if you've got any about your pres- ent shave cream, try Burma-.Shave, regular or menthol. II I • , '· \ v fJ r .,) t \ i\ .. ,) \ .. '• .. .. \ • \' . l ... Bodd Dr. Cl presiden Theolog Tenness tion \W Churche day, No· man Hi member .. On No p.m. in tl ter, Stab at Alban~ County L• the UppeJ will presE val Awar' side Red Follow! portrays China. W of langua York at will lead I s s~ The I: chosen b replace J Stars in Weekend The Is dolph, 0': their livE singing 1 noted mt will in ell such as \ Old Hear ance will ':.own sou the show on Fall · their OVIl hits as \: in the N You Do: Becaus« o: 1617 A t 1!

1967 • •} added stand beyond those to the talk on Inn. as far panel • on \ Friday the of on the Van 1 tting and, both the d the to to Then (oat- (dice- tan- not by not ·) Thursday, November 16, 1967 ,, Pro~ler Cau,ght In Act; Escapes From Capture By AL GARTNER. Two Union College students caught a prowler stealing money from Fox and Davidson Sunday noon but were unable to hold him until authorities could he notified. Officials are not sure exactly how much money was stolen. According to John Clement of 211 Fox, the thief (described as 40,50 years old,, 5!9\ 1 about 200 pounds, with grey-white ha1r and blue eyes), first entered his room shortly after noon while Clement and his roomate Bob Saltzman were sleeping. Saltzman ., awoke and suddenly realized that his • wallet containing 7 or ~ doHars, which had been lying on his pants, had been stolen. Saltzman and Clement left the • ,, Boddie Speaks Dr. Charles E. Boddie, the Negro president of the American Baptist Theological Seminary, Nashvil!e, Tennessee, will discuss the ques- tion \What Is to Happen to Negro Churches?\ in a coffee hour Tues- day, November 21, at 4:30 in Silli- man Hall. Students and faculty members are cordially invited. · CHINA MOVIE - · On November 16, beginning at 8 p.m. in the ballroom of Campus Cen- ter, State University of New York at Albany, the university, the Albany \ f• County League of Women Voters, and vr the Upper Hudson Library Federation will present the American Film-Festi- val Award-winning documentary, \In- side Red China\. Following the color film, which portrays an updated view of Red China, William T. C. Woo, professor of languages, State University of New York at Albany and Union College, will lead a discussion on the subject. room immediately and spotted the thief entering Davidson. The two wait- ed about 20 minutes in Davidson bunge until the thief returned and then they caught him. The thief immediately panicked and tried to escape, but with no success. He then tried to bribe the two with $26 in his wallet but Saltzman and Clement were able to hold him for about fifteen minutes. When the room- mates felt that there was little hope of receiving help and were unsure of their legal right to hold the thief, they let him go. . An investigation by the Schenectady Police Department is now In progress. Campus Chest Drive To Open The Campus Chest will conduct its annual fund drive at Registration for the winter term in the field house on January 3'5. This will be the ·only appeal for funds on campus this year. Sponsored by the Campus. Religious Council, which represents the three major faiths on campus, the Chest's goal for the year is $2,000. The money is used to support a variety of phil- anthropies. Each year the campus chest gives two $300 scholarships to Union men to go to Overseas Work Camps during the summer. Another part of the Campus Chest's funds go to supporting the education of Sultana Karabasakalis, a young Greek orphan girl. Money is also sent to the National Scholarship Service which each year sends capable young negro men and women to integrated colleges and universities around the country. Often, Union has one or two students on campus with support of tha NSS. The Campus Chest also supports the World University Service whicb provides relief and assistance for stu- dents and faculty in impoverished areas of the world, especially the Far East and Africa. In the spring, the Campus Chest will appeal for books and clothing to give to the WUS. 'Composite pict.ure of thief on campus last Sunday. I ! . ~·Registration Procedures Wi11ter term classes will begin at 8:30 A.M. on Wednesday, Jan· . uary 3rd. Student schedules will be distributed to college addresses · prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy Df their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Field House beginning at 8:00 A.M. on the first · day of classes. Formal registration and pay- ment of winter term charges wil 1 take place in the Field House o.n:: Thursday, Friday, and Monday, Jan'l' uary 4, 5, and 8, from 8:45 to··< ' 11:30 A.M. and from 1:00 to 3:30 P.M. Students should r.eport as follows: Last Name Report A- C Thursday morning D- G Thursday afternoon H-K Friday morning L-N Friday afternoon 0- Sh Monday morning Si- Z Monday afternoon 3 ' Stringfellow Predicts Apartheid As Dest:inatio:n Of Race Crisis By JOSEPH A. MANN, JR. An editor of Ramparts' magazine !()ld a Convocation audience Thurs- day that the destination of the American race crisis is \Johannes- burg,\ We are \helLbent for an apar- theid, institutionalized ghetto solu- tion\ to racial problems, the speaker said. William Stringfellow, an attorney, lay theologian and author of several books, including \The Bishop Pike Affair,\ spoke in Memorial Chapel on :the impact of \white supremacy\ on the white man. Stringfellow decried what he called \the de-humanizing effects of white supremacy\ on both Blacks and Whites. By ''dehumanizing,\ the speaker explained, he meant the de- nial of access to the necessities of life, such as adequate food, shelter, medical care and other items contri- buting to the well,being of any in- .dividual. With regard to Blacks, the speaker said, the effects of White su- Independent Study Pla.n Initiated By STEVE WALL This year Union students will par- .ticipate in an independent study .pro- gram at the Institute De Tourame in 'I'ours, France. Last year under this program, James Barlow and Joseph Rosenthal, two Union French majors studied for 2 terms at Tours and received full credit from Union. Professor Alan Roberts, the pro- gram's director, supervised the stud- ies of these students while they were in France by requiring written re- PQrts of theh• wor.k. The men studied French at the Institute De Tourame as well as completing the requirements for courses in French literature by reading book lists assigned by Pro- fessor Roberts. In additio11, the Col- lege arranged a tutor for the stu- dents who gave them extra aid ()nee a week. premacy would be found in the rat- infested ghetto dwellings and in the markedly inferior Negro schools. In reference to this last point, the speak- er said that he had discovered that 1907 chemistry textbooks were still William Stringfellow in use at a Negro secondary school in Buffalo. Calling this period \an era of legal- ized segregation,\ the Ramparts' edi- tor attacked the American public school system for failing to teach children the impact that Negroes made on the development of this country. White supremacy, he warned, is leading America into a racial crisis which will be resolved only by an apartheid system within a \police state.\ Drama In Dorms other what and ooing. pres· we all he .,) t ISLEY BROTHERS SATURDAY NIGHT! Students may report at a time other than above should classes in· terfere. Many aspects of the program prove.d so valuable that Prof. Roberts is anx- ious to continue and expand it for future years. The total immersion M the students in the culture brought \phenomenal\ and \obvious\ improve- ment in their ability to speak the language, according to Roberts. The young men lived with French fam- ilies and became members of a French community. The work at the Institute consisted of intensive courses in .speaking and writing French. The students thought that the independ- ence which they were allowed was one o.f, the best aspects of the pro- gram. Such independence requires a high level of maturity on the part of the participants. Richard Lucas, Director of Resi- dence Programs, has suggested the production of short drama in Fox and Davidson House dormitories. The plan, worked out in coopera· tion with the Mountebanks and the Department of Arts, calls for the presentation of small cast plays in the limited space available, such as Chekov's farce The Marriage Proposal. The program is viewed as a means of bringing theatre even more into the college com- munity. a will to Stain- ivory, e that and not, style But spe- vil- pigskin by just They bowling d as one Shulman ur pres· '• The Isley Brothers have been chosen by the sophomore class to replace Junior Walker and the All- Stars in the Saturday night Fall- \ Weekend concert. The Isley Brothers: Ronald, Ru- dolph, O'Kelly have sung together all their lives. They were first taught , singing by their mother, who is a noted music teacher. Their concert will include their well-known hits such as \'Twist and Shout\ and \This Old Heart of Mine.\ Their perform- ance will largely consist of the Mo- ':.own sound and will be simV!!f. to the show put on by the Four 1'r;!,'ops on Fall Weekend last year. Beel~des _, their o'Wn songs they will do $i.lch hits as \[ Hear a Symphony,\ ''Stop in the Name of Love,\ \Baby Don't You D() It,\ \Nowhere to Run.\ Because of the behavior of Junior Walker and the All-Stars and the desire of the sophomore class to guar- antee top-flight entertainment, a change was made. Walker, who could not be located by his manager and who cancelled out an engagement last week, has not returned the con- tract. Tickets are still on sale and rnay be purchased from Mrs. Marra in the Student Activity Office. The price is ten dollars per couple for a two night ticket. Applications Students who have schedule prob- lems will have a notation attached to their class schedule, and they should report to the Registrar at the Field House after seeing their adviser. Adjustments and changes in schedules will be made at the Field House Wednesday through Tuesday, January 3-9 from 8:45 A.M. t() 3:30 P.M., ex<!ept for the ' noon hour. Tuesday, January 9 is the last day for making schedule changes. W.C. FJELDS MOVIE Two more students are scheduled to go to the Institute for two terms starting this winter. The expenses for a year are no greater t:han those for two semesters at Union. All scholar- ships which students have from Union can be applied abroad. In addi- tion, the Department .of Modern Lan- guages welcomes co-operation with W. C. Fields stars in Mrs. Wiggs and majors from other departments to Dean Licterman's office has an- Iler Cabbage Patch to be shown sun- plan one.term programs of studying nounced that information and applica- day November 19 at SS 16 at 3 :00 at Tours. Anyone interested in this lions for all New York State Fellow- Independent Study Abroad Plan can ships are now available in his office and 7:00. Sponsored by the Film contact Professor Roberts in the Hu- One-Acts Cance/led fThe four one-act plays originally scheduled for this weekend; de Ghelderode's The Swan Song, Cour- teline's The Law and How I Came to It, and Genet's Deathwatch, have been postponed until eru;ly next trimester. The postponement, ac- cording t() Mike Halperson, Presi- dent of the Montebanks, is due to the conflict with the Fall Weekend concerts and the advent of Thanks- giving and exams in the succeeding weeks of this term. in the Social Sciences Building. Worksh()p, Admission is 75c. manities Building. r--~======~==~==========~~====~-====~====~--=====~ Mama Bianchi's RELAX! Old Dutch Restaurant Fine Italian & American Food ZELLMER'S NORGE LA IJ N I> R Y AND C I.E AN I tf G V 1'1. I. AGE AT 1.559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) .. • OPEN 7 DAYS A \NEEK A Touch of Holland in Scnenectady Excellent Food - Moderate Prices 1617 llnion St. Phon~ 374-5770 Are You Planning to behave Yourself this Weekend? If Not ... >! '*~\-f.~ ~ Let's Get Together MOFFETT'S liQUOR STORE 1505 VanVranken Ave. Dl&-0392 PLAY BILLIAROS AT Jay Billiard Lounge 167 Jay Street SPECIAL RATES For Union Men DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CH()ICE CHAR-BR.OIL STEAK VEAl CUTLEr CHICKEN- .'~1!<-$1.50 Open Sunday . Special Tues. & Thurs: Spaghetti & Meatballs with Salad and Coffee--$1.00 1135 Barrett St. Privafe Banquet Room MIDTOfNN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts done by Appoiht- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap· pointments not necessary Sat. 2049 Van Y.n:~.rrken Ave. 515 UNION ST. DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 lb.------------ .25 4lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 lb.------------ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .. 50 10 M'f.n. ----------- .10 OP'ES - S A.M. to iB P.~I. Mon. to Fl'i. - Sat. 8 A.M. to 1i P.l\1, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVE'R HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE: WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED REALE'S F()r the finest. in cameras and stereo fidelity featuring Nikoli, Hasselblad, leica, AR Speakers, Stsny R'~c:orc;fers FR 7-4261 I 3'7'7-4010 1957 Foster Ave. FR 2-4446 ~--------------------------------~---------· ~---------------------·~------------------~'----------------------------------------------·

4 Thwsday, November 16, 1967 Thursday, 1'1 A~ea Colleges .Conduct SentinaronRed China. -~ .. . . By PAUL FARNHAM ;, ,T!:,E) Seminar on China held at S.U.N.Y. at Albany on Nov.:ember 10 and 11 was a ''unique opportunity,\ accord- ing to Donald R. Thurston, Instructor ~n Hi~tory. 'J'he ·seminar was sponsored by six area colleges: ., No~ed Chemist To Speak Dr. Vlado Prelog of the. .. Swiss · Federal Institute of Techn{)logy, Zurich, will address a meeting of the Union College chapter of the Society of Sigma Xi at 8 p.m. Friday, Nov. 17, in Room . 115 of the college's Social Sci- ences Building. Dr. Prelog, 1967-68 national leeturer of t:ke society will speak on \Chemical Topology,\ Dr. Prelog is director of the Laboratory of Organic Chemis- · try at the Eidgenosische Tech- nische Hochschule at Zurich. S.U.N.Y.; Saint Rose; Siena; Skidmore; Adirondack Com- munity C0llege; and Union. It was organized by the Com- mittee on the China Seminar, a subsidiary of the Joint Committee on Non-Western ---------------~---------------~ Studies, composed of faculty from the cooperating institu- tions. A general session followed by discussion was held each day. On Friday night, Miss Myra Roper,. an Australian educator who has visited Communist China five times, most recently last May, spoke on 'Life on Mainland China,' illustrating 1 her talk with movies and slides. Saturday afternoon Dr. Abra- ham M. Halpern, research asso- ciate of the Center for Inter- national Affairs at Harvard :Uni- versity presented a talk entitled \S~!J Relations.\ ~-~;-.... Other Events Senior Pix Senior portraits for the 1968 Garnet will be taken during the week November 27th thtu De- cember 1st. Seniors must sign l:lP immediately either in their fraternity house or in Student Activities Office. Signing up after Thanksgiving Vacation will be impossible. This will be the only sitting this year. Kent Kraft '68 has an- nounced that there will be a meeting of all those ' interested in reviving the Idol at 4:00 P.M. Monday in the Phi Beta Kappa Room of the Library. Kraft, who has a.ssumed the .Mol editorship, is in- terested in speaking with prospective writers, pho- tographers, layout, copy, and business staffers. • us There were four simultaneous sectional· meetings on Satur~ay morning covering the foBowmg topics: ec.onomic developm~nt of China; family and soc1al change; education '!nd the a~s; and Mao and Maoism. An m- vited speaker made a . formal presentation for the first hour. Then a group of panelists either responded to the ideas of t~e speakers or expou~ded th~Ir owh views. After th1s, the dts- . cussions were opened to ques- 1 tions from the floor. Thos~ from Union participating as discuss- ants in these groups included, Proi. Lawrence Abbott; Prof. Malcolm R. Willison; Prof. Charles Gati; an~ Carl R~sen­ stock an Asian h1story ma]or. We're delighted to show you around our brewery any time. But we're especially glad to have you during the holidays. It's a sentimental time and we're sentimental people .. In fact, when it comes to making beer, we're probably the most determinedly sentimental people you'll ever meet. Its taste is mellow. There is absolutely no bitterness. The foam is rich and creamy, with fine bubbles-the kind you get in champagne. Natural bubbles. 5 p.m.- Monday through Friday. The drinks are on the house. Approximately three hundred attended the two general ses- sions. Attendance. at three of the sectional meetmgs ~vera~ed about fifty while the d1scuss1on 'of Mao and Maoism attracted close to one hundred students. . Conference Highlights The highlights of the confer- ence, according to T~urstiln, !were Myra Roper's open}ng lec- .ture, the Saturda~ mornmg ~es­ sions, and the Chmese danctng. :Both Thurston and R~senstock 1'effiphasized that the sh~es and ''movies added much to Mtss Rop- ;er's talk. Slle pointed out that ~ although the United St~tes m. a. Y kttt'JW reore about Chma ~tha_n d'oes· 'any other country, _1t lS ·aPt· to forget about the Chmese jas. a.·people.\ They are not, she !!warn~d, a li~ge, unhapp~ and jdisconte~ted mass, nor 1s t~e 1 lcountry m utt~r cha<?s .. Thms- ton said the Chmese smgmg and 'dancing may have helped the 1 ~students to appreciate th~ ~beauty of tllese forms of Chl- ~nese folk art. . j Nlldear Family Both Thurston and Rosen- stock were involved in ~he sec- tional meeting on fai?Ily and ;Jsocial change. The mam sp~ak- er was Dr. Morton H. Frted, :Professor and Chairman of the !Department of Anthropology at Columbia University. He ~P!Jke •'on the nature of the \traditi~n­ al\ Chinese family, exploding · tl).e myth that it was extremely large. Fried showt:d that al- though the Commumsts have at- tacked the idea of lineages, they have not jeopardized the nu- clear family. . Althougll there are no un- mediate plans for another sem- inar of this .type, Thurston con- sidered that this one was a suc- J cess. Students ~rol!l all of the I sponsoring inst1tutwns attend- il ed. The State Univer~ity had 11 the largest representatl?D:• and ~ there were forty parbc1pants from Union. Thurston com- mented that for the amoun~ of money in.volved, · the semmar was of extremely high_~~IJ_e~ I. R. C. The Union-Skidmore Interna- tional Relations Club will pre- sent a panel discussion, Huinatl rights- Civil nights New Yo~k State, on November 21, 1967, m the Hale House Student Lounge at 4:30 p.m.· The speakers are J. Edward C()nway of the ~tate Commission for Human R1g~ts and James H. Lockhart, Assls- tant in Educational Integration, State Education Department. Coffee and donuts will be served. The brothers, of . P,hi Delta Theta Fraternity· \he-ld a ~artY for fifteen boys from the &chc- nectady County Childrens\-J.'J:(Jme on Saturday,November 11. The boys ranged from sev~n .. to twel¥e years of age. Act1v1tres sticli as football, soccer and brother killing were featured. ·cake, candy, soda, and ice ·creaih were served. .) ( .,, • We age Utica Club for months to get exactly the kind of beer we want. .r., . ·.~ Can you tell we're proud of our beer? Well, we are. And we're equally proud of our brewery. Like a good cook's kitchen, it's spotless and filled with gleaming copper and stainless steel and tile. We think it's beautiful. Especially during the holidays. So drop in and see us anytime between lOa.m. and And by the way, if you like our illustration, we'll gladly send you a color poster version .of it (without all these words). Just drop a note tome, Walter Matt, President, Utica Club Beer, Utica, New York 13503. Happy Holiday. THE WEST END BREWING CO. OF UTICA, N. 'f, • Your gt Nixon, Rom leaders have the 1968 pr{ the Republi the policies any of these After all, hi the middle anY one ·Of in ·washingt It migh not become of New Yo relatively Y• unwise to e situation. L on his hand recently ga 1 f<H Preside: spot on the presidential To he,, party. At t says in rat President: his possible .port of Pre larity poHs nounced Cal divorce los1 water in 191 r1ght? Ever-pi in a very NiXon will • Be 32 DJ StiJ 151i Spe Ope1 1 Those Who Have recon FOR

16, 1967 Thursday, November 16, 19 57 5 has an- will those the Monday And in This Corner, the Challenger. • • Kappa rs In· with pho- copy, . . .r ,. .,. • • By AL COHEN Your guess is as good as anyone else's - Rockefeller, Reagan, ' Nixon, Romney, Percy, Lindsay, and any number of other G.O.P. leaders have been suggested as possible Republican candidates in the 1968 presidential election. The main issue will be Vietnam, and the Republicans must :form some kind of platform different from the policies of President Johnson. It is difficult to understand why any of these rather weaithy gentlemen would want to be President. After all, how would you like to see college students walk out in the middle ·Of a speech by your wife? Yet, it is fairly clear that any one ·Of these men would like to live in that big White House in Washington D.C . It might be best to first consider the two• who will definitely not become presidential candidates in 1968: M:ayor John Lindsay of New York City and Senator Charles Perny of Ininois. Both relatively young men with futures to look forward to, it would be unwise to endanger their futures by involvement in the Vietnam situation. Lindsay is a genuinely honest man with a .difficult task on his hands. He is slightly \dovish\ concerniag Vietnam, and he recently gave his support to Charles Percy or Nelson Rockefeller f<H President. Percy, although an unLikely candidate for the to.p spot on the Republican ticket, could gain support for the vice- presidential nod if he so desired. 1 \Bill Gun\ To he more practical we must turn to the \big guns\ of the party. At this time, Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New York says in rather unequivocal terms that he has no desire to be President This fact, however, has not decreased general talk of his possible candidacy. His recent withdrawal of wholehearted sup- port of President Johnson's Vietnam policy and his rise in popu- larity polis has raised his stature as a potential candidate, An an· nounced candidate for President in the 1:964 e1€ction, the ex-hawk divorce lost some popularity in refusing to support Barry Gold- water in 1964. But then again, Rocky doesn't want to be President, right? Ever-present in the political scene and at present a partner in a very prosperom law firm, former Vice\President .Richard NiXon will announce his intentions in January. Although h1s losses DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Ra.om Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 - 1 20 JAY STREET 135 ERIE BOUlEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF Bowling Lanes Open 8 A.M. to 3 A.M. SNACK BAR ON PREMISES DAMBROSE CLEANERS SHIRTS 23c - SUITS 1.00 - PA.NTS SOc Student Discount on All Dry Cleaning 1517 Va~ Vranken Avenue FR 4..;5193 ~.EWEST LIJ~CH 71.5 Albany Street Specializing: -. HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAI<~•OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921 I Open 7 Davs,,Per Week 6 A.Nl.- 3:00A.M. 'For three · Generations.' Those Who Know. Have been ~\ecommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ~'3 Union Graduates in GraLJbart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY in the 1960 presidential and 1962 California gubernatorial elections brand him as a loser\ he is quite optimistic about his chances .against Johnson. He still campaigns freC{uently for fellow Republi· cans and is an effective speaker. {The last unsuccessful presiden- tial candidate to come back and win an election was Grover Cleveland back in 1892). Reagan RerJ.JnS In reality, Nixon's chances of getting the nomination are not bad if a compromise candidate is needed since he has a great deal of support in many states. As an <Jutspoken hawk, Nixon's views on the war are similar to those of G()vernor Ronald Reagan of Califorttia. The ex-star of \Death Valley Days\ and. many movies, Reagan I UNION CALENDAR ' Friday, Nov. 17: Fall Weekend. Film Series, \L' Atalante,\ 7:00 and 9:00p.m., Social Sci· ence Building 16. Concert, Ramsey Lewis Trio, 8:30p.m., Memorial Chapel Saturday, Nov. 18: Football, Union vs. Hamilton, 1:30 p.m., Alexander Field. Con<'ert, Isley Brothers, 8:~0 p .. , Mem0rial Chapel. Sunday, Nov. lr: Film, \Mr. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch\ with F. C. Fields, presented by The American Acad- amy and the Film Workshop, 3:00 and 7:00 p.m., Social Science BuHCling t6. Organ Recital, Hugh Allen Wils<m, 4:00 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Tuesday, Nov. 21: Lecture, Dr. Charles Boddie, \What Is to Hannen to the 8cgro Churches'!\ 4:30 .p.m., Silliman Hall. Wcdn<s:Iay, .':ov. 2'!: Thanksgiving Recess. 12:00 Noon. was considered .a presidential candidate as soon as he announced his intentions to run for governor of California. With little ex- perience at handling real problems thus far in Califernia,. Reagan has already rejected the vice-presidential nomination although he would add many votes to any ticket. He will he California's favorite-son candidate at the convention. On a possibly optimistic note, Reagan has accused President ' Johnson of withholding information from the American public about the war effort in Vietnam: \I have a feeling we're doing much better in the war than we're being told, that the corner has been turned.\ He adds that the American public will be in- formed \ ... when it's politically advantageous for the Adminis- tration to tell us, with an election coming up.\ How about that? Strangely enough, don't count him out of the race. Soap .Head Finally, mention must be made of the soapcheaded Governor .of Michigan, George Romney. \Brain-washed\ during his visit to Vietnam, he was apparently brain-washed also by early polls which indicated he had a chance. During the past few months, he did little that was right for an aspiring politician. The nonsensical debate following the mismanagement of the recent riots in his state between Romney and the President showed the governor's apparent concern is greater with politics than the welfare of the people. His hawkish Vietnam position has slightly changed, but he has offered no real plan for the situation and has denied withdrawal as a possibility. Having recently purchased air-time on television for the middle of November, he will probably announce his can- didacy at that time. It is difficult to say at this time what the Republican party's platform will be in regard to Vietnam. A recent meeting of Repub- lican governors refused to support the President's policies in Viet- nam. Yet, with hawks like Nixon and Reagan, supporters of the President such as Dirksen in the Senate, and questionables like Rockefeller and Romney now changing their positions, it may ,be difficult to find a solid policy. Well, Grand Old Party: Good Luck .. You'll need it. et degree_ ,. Dodge Charger R/T Enroll in one of three exciting classes. Charger R;T, Coronet R;T, or Dart GTSport. Each has its own dis- tinctive sporty style, but all three have a lot in com· mon. Like automatic transmissions, wide,tread red line tires, special handling packages, and a long list of other standard and optional features. To help you make the grade, the standard engines for the Scat Pack include a 340-nu.-irl. V8 for the Dart GTS. And for Charger R/T and Coronet R/T, a 440 Magnum V8. Or for a more accelerated course, you can order the optional 426 Hel)li. ' All three members of the Scat Pack offer distin· guishing marks at no extra cost. Bold bumblebee. stripes wrapped around the rear. Or Rallye stripes along the side. Or if you. prefer to be a little more modest,. no stripes at all. It's your choice. Ready for class? With the Scat Pack, you've goU\. Why not Sigh up at your nearby Podge Dealer~i;\iind get your Bumblebee Degree, today? Dodge 0 CHRYSLER MOTORS C:DHPORATION To add some color to campus, get your Official Dodge Scat Pack Jacket in the official \Dodge Red\ Col or-with the al)thentic embroi- dered \bumble· bee\ design on front and back. Send for yours today. r------------------~ I FILL OUT AND MAIL TO: I Hughes-Hatcher-Suffrln, 1133 Shelby at Slate, 1 Detroit, Michigan.48226. Attn.: Mr. Gus.A11ton. I Enclosed is a check or money order (made payable to 1 Hughes-Hatcher·Suffrin) for$ to cllver costof · 1 ____ jackets at $9.95 each. Available sizes: S, M, · L, XL, XXL. (Add 4% sales tax for delivery in Michigan.} I I ·Name Size I I Address 1 I City State Zip _ I L------------------~

6 Thursday, November 16, Letters to the Editor PuiJllshed Thursdays during the scnooJ year by the Student Body ·of Union Co!le~;s, Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Representative: National . Ad~\rtlsing Service, Inc.. Collere Publishers Representative, 420 Mad!· son Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union Col- lege. Publication Qffice. Schenectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered in the Schenectady Post Of- .fice as Second Class l\lail Matte•·· Subscription l5c a copy; $ 3 a year delivered· anywhere In the United States. I'ENlOR UOARD JOSF:PH A. ~!ANN, JR. '68 ................ 372·4157 ............................. Editor-ln·Chlef JOEL RUBENZA HL. '68 ............................. 377-9430 ...................... Business Manager Nli:IL S. KRA~li!:R '70 ............... - .............. 346·86-14 ........................ :lllanag!ng Editor H!CHARD BALAGt:R '69 ............................. 374·o418 ............... , ...... _ .......... News• Ed!tOl' ALAN ZIF.GLE!t. '69 ................................ 374-7418 .................... High Society Editor CLIFF SAFANE '69 ...................................... 372·9730 ............................ -Feat-ures Editor GAHY l'IU0:\'0!-lT '69... .ou:l-7841 ............................ Sports ·Ed:tor ,Jt;N.JOR BOARD Richard Patterson, J,r. • 70 .......................................................... Associate News Ed~ tor r~~e ~~~~e! ~~:~ .. :·:·.::::::·::':':\·:·:·:::--·.··::·:_··.::::: :·:':':\:::··· : ::~:··:·:·:·:::·.-:::·:::::.~~~~~;1::~£~ffi ~i::~~ . · Peter Drotman '69 ................................................... _National Advertising 1fanager . Bill Blumenthal • 68.. ....... ........... .... .. . .. .... .. .. .. ............... Ass' t Business Manager · ~~e:rhe~ 01 ~:~~~a~ 7 ~ 7 0~~ ~~~ ~~:~:~ ::::::::~::~~:::.:::: :::::::::::::::::::.·:::: :::::::~:::::~~~r~\:!i:f~~ ::~:==~ . Larry Rothb!oom '70 ...................................................................... Dtstributwn Manager STAFF )mMBERS NEWS: Neal Gordon, Bill Breirnan, Hal Ross, Stephen Glanzroclc. FEATt:RES: Scott Siegler. SPOR\fS: Henr)· l•\ein Jay Blitzman CANDIOATJo: ·REPORTER STAFF I•'EATl'IU•:!-1: Pa·ul An<lr••ws, A! Cohen, Harry Miller. Kent Wiloy I..>an:' Rae. Paul F~arnham. :SJ•:W!-l: :Steve WaiL Carl I>iPIZ. Howie :l.li'ller. AI Gart-nPr. In Conclusion . • • The reports from the Special Summer Committees ( sumarized earlier this term in Concordiensis) and the $30 million capital outlay program are two ambitious plans for making Union a better college. ' Athletes' Feats To the Editor : ' 1 'Taken from \An Introduction to Union College\ 1967-68. \The Admission Committee is primarily concerned with the ability- of candidates to profit from and contribute to the aca- demic and extra-curricular life of the College . . . \The College values athletics as it values other student activi- ties, -in direct proportion to the conb!ibution they make to the College's program and to the individuals who participate. \Within this philosophical frame, the College believes that every student should have an oppmtunity to take part in ath- letics to the limit of his ability. \An extensive ,schedule of in- tramural ,sports-among them, skiing, curling, bowling, and rugby-gives all interested stu- dents a chance to play on an or- ganized team.\* It is more than a shame that these statements and statements of UC.. ideals are simply not realized. To be sure, \Participation in campus activities adds richness and diversity to the college ex- perience and fasters leader- ~h in, a spirit of cooperation, and responsible citizenship.\ That Admissions does weigh those qualities mentioned may be true, but then what spectrum of activities are available to stu- dents to exercise and develop these -invaluable qualities? ing than the \policy makers\ envision. A \pass-the-buck\ routine is evident now in the administra- tive ranks. This year the Tax Committee decided it was not responsible for the support of such clubs and promptly wrote this into its bylaws hoping these organizations would tal{e griev- ances to the Administration or Athletic Department; and that's just what this is all about. The issue is still unsettled and still being passed around - no one thinks it important enough to merit any concrete solution- and that is one which will en- courage the formation of such activities instead of one which appears to be stifling them. The first step taken should be one of investigation of past poli- cies, accomplishments, and ac- tion of the part of both Admin- isitration and c 1 ubs. An investi- gation of the Ski Team, for ex- ample will show that the Ath- letic department and Tax Com- mitte together own $950 worth of equipment of use only to ski racers, and that a budget of only $250 is necessary to main- tain a Skeleton team. No longer can a Union stu- dent give \the old college try\ against another school unless he be on a \recogni7ed\ team un- der the Athletic Department. I strongly urge immediate action be taken in the Administration; I am not alone in having done my- best to promote such activ- ities on a student levi. David Conant, '68. Who, Us? To the Editor: Wheel Zeal To the Editor: Much has been said to affirm the status of the Freshman Class as an integral part of a unified \college community,\ to discourage hazing and other forms of upperclass amusement, and to provide opportunities to develop participation or at least an identity at all levels of ac- tivity. Separate housing of Freshmen and Upperclassmen has been criticized as a deter- ent to these ends. Among other such areas that sharpen the Un- ion \caste system,\ the depri- vation of cars stands as a pain- ful reminder of the second-class citizenship of freshmen. Most freshman have been driving for at least two years; and within that time, they have encountered and overcome the difficulties which accompany this privilege. Liberal new priv· ileges have been bestowed upon the freshman, it is ironical that an old one should be denied. The needs and uses to which an automobile can be adapted are all too obvious. The prohibition arises, osten- sibly, from a judgment that a car would be a distraction dur- ing a freshman's adjustment to Union; and less severely, that there might be a shortage of parking space. The latter ob- jection can be dispensed with by noting the fact that not every freshman would bring up a car and by noting the immense amount of space around Rich- mond and West Colleges. In view of the multitudes of other distractions and/or pitfalls in- herent in college life, a car seems a meager temptation, in- deed. The argument for adjust- ment is. however, a valid one; but it is not all inclusive. Two terms will suffice for most freshmen to be assimilated just one more step towards mak- ing all students in Union into Union students. IIarry Miller, '71. Fund Drive Thank y-ou fi:>r mentioning the , Campus Chest in your Novem- · ber Ninth issue -of Concordi- ensis. However, I feel that an inch and a half notice under the column \Hear Ye\ does injus- tice to the only student oriented and student organized charity on this campus. I believe that this is an insult to those who are sincerely interested in help- ing others and that this again reflects the pervasive apathy on this campus to such matters. The fact was brought out that the goal of the Campus Chest this year is two thousand dollars. However, mention was not made -of where this sum would go. A portion of this wiU go to the payment of education- al costs for Sultana Karbasa- kalis, a Greek girl. A second part will provide a scholarship for a Union student to devote ~one summer abroad, working 1 with European and Asian stu- <p dents in work camps, establish- · ing friendly and meaningful.ties between the various nations rep- t resented. Remaining funds go to the support of several stu- dent centered charities: World University Service, which aids . Asian students and universities, · the National Scholarship Fund, 4 1 and the United Negro Fund, both of which help Negroes and L Negro colleges in the United States. d Tee suggestions of the Summer Committees -- par- ticularly those concerning the institution of co-education: a flexible 3-5 program and limited daytime graduate studies _ will create serious problems of financing if put into effect. Fear that the quality of the undergraduate program would suffer if money is poured into a graduate school .has prompted some opposition to the idea. Those club sports mentioned above, plus the sailing team, have been considered unworthy of the modest funds that their entirely student-managed groups requested from the College. Moreover, these \intramural\ sports are not intramural at all but intercollegiate and some (especially the ski team) have played a significant part in spreading the name of Union throughout the Northeast in past years. Now, no longer will this be the case Those interested par- ties (both universities and sub- frosh) will see that Union no longer considers those qualities within the institution; and, as You dirty bearded and whisk· an indication of this, the grade ered looking delics (sic), you index would be an excellent could march your dirty Com- meter. A minimum of 2.5 is an monistic legs off, but the only equitable level for the privilege friend your (sic) going to end of driving a car in the Spring up will be \Ho Chi Min\ (sic). term. More precise provisions Your (sic) all dirty so-called should be discussed. This is students hiding behind educa-~­ tion's skirt, you don't contribute anything to your country here, only grief. No body (sic) is holding any one of you hippies here, why don't you all pack up and move to another country, say a Communistic country. But Union students cannot be expected to contribute to some- thing they know little about. I hope that this letter accom- plishes what your brief notice cannot: informs the campuo;; community of the Campus Chest and its worth while functions. , Also, may I point out that you too, Sir, can contribute to the Campus Chest as you registc\ ~ for the second term, January 3 ..,'\,. through 5. Douglas Kutz,. Pres. Campus Religious Council. t Concord .I\'ns;s sees excellence in undergraduate study of leadership and persistence as ' • worthy of development as it as Union's, first goal. We sympathize with the· critics of a once used to. In these time of graduate School on this point but we do not consider the change for Union, it is truly dis- heartening to see a change of proposed graduate programs a threat to u_ndergradu~te this nature. I'm sure the conse- . · d d tl t 1 cuencr<; rf ~u<>h a rrnvp will be quality; the $30 million program 18 aime lrec y a m- more destructive and far-reach- A World War II Veteran. (sic, sic, sic). proving the undergraduate environm:nt. If t~e. funding of ~=::.....::=::::::::.::.:.::.::....:=:.....:::::...:..:::.:.:::,_ __ ..::.:.....:.:.::.::.:::::....:.:..:.::.-=.._;_;..::.:._,;___ graduate study does not cut into th1s $30 m1lhon, we see no danger to the college. It is easy to poS~e excellence as. a goal, but it is quite another thing to attain it. In an earlier issue this news- paper suggested that a good means of attracting students would be through increasing the attractiveness of the ath- letic departments. We have changed our opinion. With the limited resources available to- the college, it is wiser to concentrate our efforts in another area. We now feel that the college should give faculty sal- aries the very highest priority; although our AAUP ratings show us to be quite competitive at the instructor level, other categories are not so well endowed. If Union is to attain excellence, faculty salaries rnust obtain priority over all major projects, including the student union. Putting all of the college's eggs in this kind of basket does not strike us as unwise: the intellectual atmosphere is the college's most valuable asset. In the competition for first-rate teachers, we feel that Union's ability to offer premium salaries will give us a di$tinct advantage over colleges which can offer better facilities and less money. In other areas, too, Concordiensis feels that changes must be made. Percentage requirements for the major field, ROTC and the physical education program should receive close scrutiny by both faculty and students. The administration's persistent policy of dictating personal morality to students should be questioned now by the All-College CounciL II JuniorYear • 1n New York Three undergraduate colleges offer students from all parts of the country an opportunity to broaden their educational experience by spending their Junior Year in New York New York University is an integral part of the exciting metropolitan community of New York City-the business, cultural, artistic, and financial center of the nation. The city's extraordinary resources greatly enrich both the academic program and the experience of living at New York University with the most cosmopolitan student body in the world. This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to Which they will return for their degrees. Courses may be taken in the · School of Commerce School of Education Washington Square College of Arts and Science Write for brochure to Director, junior Year in NewYork Union has the potential to become a great college, N E W y 0 R K U N 1 V E R s 1 T y the suggestions of the Summer Committees are important N y, k NY. 10003 U . ew · o.r , .. steps in this direction. We feel confident tha:t mon can 1------------------------ attain such a goal. Let the Tager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmos~Jnere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in Gur RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 UNION BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET .. Books ••• Paperback Classics .. Party Favors • • • Art Supplies Office Supplies L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 - - FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue 'featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. ···- - •• I I t .I r -~ ~~ Ga1 If the el« it is that tl within 'the are very r« very clear! church and sanct batri1 organized c ops could election of Cleveland sl electorate \1 tradition o groups for· The issu1 state consti appear. Th gathered a tations for emotional i grounds of Emotiona oppo('led by York P.T.A -proposed re feared and schools as traditional The CatholJ strongly en the Democr dox Jews, J sure passag portraying receive PSY< ing public treatment f, theory wei church's stl 1125 BJ Enjoy Siz; ·-· -----·< WE BUT Oneal

6 Thursday, November 16, 196 7 Thursday, ~ Letters to the Editor ,., l'tJI,Ju .. t•··~t Tl,lJJs,i.t~·s dur·tng tht> srtH1n1 yf\a r by thfil' ~~ Udt•nr Bo,fy of l'n 1un Collt•!.!e. ~klH•fiPl'tady, X. Y. :\atJonnl Advt~rtlNlll~ Ht•Jltl•:-.tmtatt\'t': !\atJnn.tl Ad\ t-Ort tsing SE>rVic(', Inc.. Ccllere Publishers HeprPst~ntati\'t', 420 l.!adl- snn A\'i'., '!': Y. t'. Etil!tJrml Utfll..'t'. tJ!d Oyn1. l 'nltlil l'ul le!-:t>. Pul.olt(·at i4...•1l llf fti.'t', fklH•nt•t·tad~ l'rllltJng t'otlll'nnr, 50:! Broadwuy. ErHP!'t•d in I hP ~( hPfll'l-'lady P(lSt or- ftl\e as ~t't'tm•l t'lus~ ~·lnil .!\l.ltt~t Subscription 1 ~t· a <'nt•Y; $3 il r''•lr .lllo' I :1·'11 .\ ~I I\\\\\\ .1!-; '\'l·:l'O.JUR BO.\Ril 37>!1:.7 EoiJtor-tn .( 'htd I~~~~ m~sR !\ta.na.g~r ~lana.gingo Etlitor !':ews l·JtlHor 1 Jla~,;lt ~nl\iPtY 'Editor !-'t>!lflll\t'~ J•;tliloJ ~JulJ\t:-; r;,J,tor Jrll-:1, ltl'BE'\Z I IlL. •,;, :--LII.. ~- h:I:.\~II·:It •;o l~lt\ll\1:11 J:.\l.\ti[\!( ,;. .11..1\ zn:• a.I·:H. ·,; .• t'I.lFF :'.\1'.,:\-il: '•i~l 1; \ J: Y 1 '] ~ 1:\ • , ... ;r · '• '• Rh'har·d Patlt·rs.,n. Jr. '~,-, l\lkk llanl~l '70 ..... . J...-11 ;' . Ill< •II . ~II Pt•t.Pr 11 rtl!'f!l.! 11 ·,; ., Hdl Blnltl•'nth.d 't~ ... ~ft•pilt'H J.1t IJ/I;t 11 ';11 {':trl <;nidsan•l '71l Lill r) HPtidd•II'Tll ';,, _,,,,: lti \tl J 4 .:; 1-.41 ... ::; l ; II' ' ., ~ • ... t 1 .J\\:SUIR ll0.\1111 !'T,\FF ~IE~IIlERS \s\'\(·Ja.tc> :--.:t·ws Edttot 1'1• c.Tu~ra.phy :Edt tor \s~t F',·nlun·s Edttot .\. .... t,,,l,tt•· ~P,•rt:-; Etltlt1t !\nt't··,naJ ~\d\·••rt'lstng- :\la.nagf?t A~s· t I~ustnt·~s :\tanager ~Ul1S\'r!Jlt.IOT1 ~'l;.t nagPr t ,11·, ·11lat !Dtl :O.I.a naget 1• l:-1r-l\tutit'll :\lanaJ:;Pl !\E\\·~: :\; .. tJ t;,.,.,J •. n. Hdl Ht•··llt-•11. ll;d H .. -.~. :-:tr!•lwn l~).tlll!~td, I,E.\Tllti':S: ~t •Itt :--;IP~i•'r. ~PUHT~: ll•·fll~ l'.·:n J,,.y ]~Itt zru~''' 1\.\~ Ill 11.\\TF: RI-:I'OHTUI !>-1\.\IT i'l•;.\Tli{J·:\\-: l'o~td ·\tJdl•l\\\ .\1 ····lwn lfarty ~ldlo-1. E•·t1l WJI··\ Jt.t\·•· H... J'.tlll l'.t!llh-tttl ,.E\\'': ,...;r,.\,. \\.d! t'.trl !'1·'/ H•·.l··· ,\l1ll·r .\1 t: .. trtl\•1 In Conclusion . • • The reports from the Special Summer Committees (sumarized earlier this term in Concordh•nsis) and the $30 million capital outlay program arc two ambitious plans for maldng Union a better college. ! Athletes' Feats To the Editor: Taken from \An lntroduC'tion to Cnion Collcgp\ 19fi7-68. ··ThL' Admission Committee• is primarily concerned with the ability of candidates to profit from and contribute to the aca· dcmic and cxtra·currieular lift• of the College ... \The College values athletics as it values other student activi· ties, in direct proportion to the contribution thC'y make to the College's program and to the iHdi vid t!als who participate. \Within this philosophical frame, the College believes that every student should have an opportunity to take part in ath- letics to the limit of his ability. \An cs:tensive schedule of in- tramural sports-among them, skiing, curling, bowli:ag, and rugby-gives all interested stu- dents a c hancc to play on an or- ganized team.\\ It is 1nore than a shame that these statements and statements of {j.C. ideals arc simply not realized. To be sure, \Participation in campus activities adds richness and diversity to the college ex· rcri~>nce and fastcrs leader- ~hin, a mirit of cooperation, and responsible citizenship.\ That Admissions does weigh those CJUalities mentioned may be true, but then what spectrum of activities are available to stu- dents to exercise and develop these im .aluable qualities? Those -dub sports mentioned above, plus the sailing team, have been considered unworthy of the modest funds that their 1 entirely student-managed groups requested from the College. :\Iore0\\er ~ these \intramural\ sports are not intramural at all ing than the \policr makers\ l'm·ision. A \pass·thc-buck\ routim• is evidc1~t IW\1\ in the administra- tive ranks. This year the Tax Conm1ittre decided it was not responsible for the support of such clubs and promptly wrote this into its hylaws hoping these organizations weuld take griev- ances to the AdA1inistration or Athletic Department; and that's iust what this is all about. The issue is still u nsctncd and still being passed around - no one thinks it important eNough to merit any concrete solution- and that is one which will en- courage the formation of such activities instead of one which appears to be stifling them. The first step taken should be one of iNvestigation of past poU- cies, accomplishments, and ac- tion of the part of both Admin- isitration and e 1 ubs. An investi- gation of the Ski Team, for ex- ample will show that the Ath- letic department and Tax Com- mitte together own $950 worth of equipment of use only to ski racers, and that a budget of only $250 is necessary to Inain· tain a Skeleton team. No longer can a Union stu- dent give \the old college try\ against another school unless he be on a \recogni7ed'' team un- der the Athletic Department. I strongly urge immediate action be taken in the Administration: I am not alone in having done my best to promote such activ- ities on a student lev!. David Conant, '68. \PJho, Us? To the Editor: Wheel Zeal G:ar To the Editor: jl!lst onp more st<'P towards mak ii~g all students in Union into 1 Union students. ~~• , ____ _ llarry Miller, '71. l\lueh has been said to affirm the status of tlilc Freshman Class as an integral part of a unified \college conlmunity,\ to discourage haziHg and other Fund Drive forms of uppcrclass amusement, Thank you for mentioning thf.' and to provide opportunities to Campus Chest in your Novem- develop participation or at least ber Ninth issue of Concordi· If the ele . ~~~ it is that tt within the : 1 are very re very clear!~ church and r· sanct barrie organized c1 ops could election of an identity at all levels of ac· ensis. However, I £eel that an tivity. Separate housing of inch and a half notice under the Freshmen and Upperclassmen column \Hear Ye\ does injus- •• has been criticized as a deter- tice to the only student oriented ent to these ends. Among 0ther and student organized charity such areas that sharpen the Un- on this campus. I believe that ion \caste system,\ the depri- th·is is an insult to those who -~~ vation of cars stands as a pain- are sincerely interested in help- ful remimler of the second·cl'ass ing others aHd that this again citizenship of freshmen. reflects the pervasive apathy on this carnllUS to such matters. . . ., Most freshman have been driving for at least two years; The fact was brought out and within that time, they have that the goal of the Campus encountered and overcome the Chest this year is two th0usand j difficulties which accompany dellars. However, mention was., • this privilege. Liberal new priv- not made of where this s1:1m 1 ileges have been bestowed upon would go. A portion of this will I the freshman, it is ironical that go to the payment of education- an old one should be deHied. al costs for Sultana Karbasa- 1• The needs aNd uses to which an kalis, a Greek girl. A second •1 automobile can be adapted are part will provide a scholarship all too obvious. for a Union student to devote one summer abr0ad, working The prohibition arises, osten- with European and Asian stu· 'I') sibly, from a judgment that a dents in work camps, establish- ear would be a distraction dur- ing friendly and meaningful ties ing a freshman's adjustment to between the various nations rep- Union; and less severely, that resented. Remaining funds go ., 1 ·w there might be a shortage of to the support of several stu- parking space. The latter ob- dent centered charities: World I jection can be dispensed with University Service, which aids hv noting the fact that not every Asian students and universities. , ... freshman would bring up a car the National Scholarship Fund. and by noting the immense and the United Negro Fund. amount of space arouHd Rich· both of which help Negroes and mond and West Colleges. In Negro colleges in the United view of the multitudes of other States. 1 t. I distractions and/or pitfalls in- But Union students cannot be 1 herent in college life, a car seems a meager temptation, in- expected to contribute to some· Cleveland sh electorate w tradition o groups for t The issue state co nsti1 appear. ThE gathered a ' lations for emotioHal is grounds of · Emotional opposed by York P.T.A. pr0posed re feared and schools as traditional l The Catholi• strongly enc the Democn dox Jews, r: sure passagE portraying ! receive psyc ing public i treatment fc theory wer' church's sta Tl~e suggestions of tht> Summer Committees -. par- ticularlv those concerning the institution of <'O-education, a flexible. :3-5 program and limited daytime gr·aduate studies , - will u·eate serious problems of financing- if put into 1 effect. Fear that thE.' quality of the undergraduate program j would suffer if money is poured into a graduate school has promptPd sonw opposition to the idea. but intercollegiate and some (especial!~· the ski team) have played a significant part in spreading the name of Union throughout the Northeast in past years. Now, no longer will this be deed. The argument for adjust· thing they know little about. I ment is, however, a valid one; hope that this letter accom- \\1 11 but it is not all inclusive. Two plishes what your brief notice ~ terms will suffice for most cannot: informs the campu-; freshmen to be assimilated community of the Campus Chest within the institution; and. as and its worth while functions .. You dirty bearded and whisk- an indication of this, the grade Also, may I point out that YNI ered looking delics (sic), you index would be an excellent too, Sir, can contribute to thC' could march your dirty Com- meter. A minimum of 2.5 is an Campus Chest as you registrr munistic legs off, but the only equitable level for the privilege for the second term. January ~ , . ._ friend your (sic) going to end of driving a car in the Spring through 5. up will be \Ho Chi Min\ (sic). term. l\Iore precise provisions Douglas Kutz, Pres. the case. Those interested par- til's (both. universities and sub- frosh l will sec that Union no longer considers those qualities Your (sic) all dirty so-called :;hould he discussed. This is Campus Religious Coundl. students hiding behind cduca- 1 :--·---·----------·----------------------- · 1 d t t d of leadership and persistence as CorH'ordiPnsi)', sees ex~ellence 111 um ergra ua e s u Y worthy of development as it HS Union's first goal. We sympathize with the critics of a once used. to. In these time of gr( 'lduatl· ~\huol on this ]>Oint but \W do not consider the change for l:nion. it is truly dis- • ..,... heartening to see a change of proposed graduatP programs a threat to undC'rgradu~tP this nature. rm sure the consc- tion's skirt, you don't contribute I anything to your country here. only grief. No body ( s\c) . is holding any one of you hippies here, why don't ;~:ou all pack up and move to another country, sav a Communistic country . < slc. sie. sic). . . d d\ ti t 1\'1 (-ll\'1Cr·~ r f ~ll\h a JT'I\I\'(• wi!J he quality: the $:30 million program IS Rime Jrec y ~- t. - more destructive and far-reach- A World Wat· II Veteran. proving the undNgraduate environment. If th€ fundmg of j graduate study does not cut into this $30 n1illion, we see~-------------------------- 1 no dangc.·r to the college. It is easy to pose excellence as a goal, but it is quite another thing to attain it. In an earlier issue this news- ; paper suggested that a g?od means of ~ttracting students I would be through increasmg the attractiveness of the ath- . letic departments. We have changed our opinion. With I the limited resources available to the college, it is wiser to concentrate our t'fforts in another area. We now feel that the college should give faculty sal- aries tlw n•ry hight•st pri•>rit~·; although our .A A UP ratings show us to b(• quitP competitive at the instructor level. other categories art' not so well endowed. If Union is to attain excellence, faculty salaries must obtain priority over all major projects, including the student union. Putting all of the college's eggs in this kind of basket does not strike us as unwise: the intellectual atmosphere is the college's most: valuable asset. In the competition for first-ra.te teachers, 1 we feel that Union's ability to offer premium salaries will; give us a di$tinct advantage over colleges w ll.ich can offer j better facilities and Jess money. In other areas, too, Concordi.-nsis feels that changes must be made. Percentage requirements for the major field, ROTC and the physical education program should receive close scrutiny by both faculty and students. The administration's persistent policy of dictating personal morality to students should be questioned now by the All-College CounciL Union has the potential to become a great college; the suggestions of the Summer Committees are important steps in this direction. We feel confident that Union can attain such a goal. II JuniorYear • 1n New York Three undergraduate colleges offer students from all parts of the country an opportunity to broaden their educational experience by spending their Junior Year in New York ~Pw York University i~ an integral part oi the exciting metropolitan community of New York City-the business, cultural, artistic, and financial center of the nation. The city's extraordinary resources greatly enrich both the academic program and the experience of living at New York University with the most cosmopolitan student body in the world. This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees. Courses may be taken in the School of Commerce School of Education Washington Square College of Arts and Science Write for brochure to Director, Junior Year in New York NEW YORK UNIVERSITY New York, N.Y. 10003 ) Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 UNION BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET --- ... --- Books • • • Paperback Classics --- .. --- Party Favors •.• Art Supplies --- .. :--- Office Supplies L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 FERRO PHARMACY 575 N.ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwiches at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to 3 A.M. I r ' ••• ). ~ 1 l I i ! I ... 1125 BA Enjoy Sizz WE BUT On car

iller, '71. tioning the , ~r Novern- · Concordi- el that an under the toes injus- lt oriented ~d charity ~lieve that those who· ld in help- this again apathy on natters. >Ught out e Campus • thousand 1ntion was this sum tf this will education- Karbasa- A second cholarship to devote Thu~-sday, November 16, 1967 7 •Church-St·ate Sepa-ration Intact; Gary, Cleveland, Elect Negro Mayors Nichols Revives ''Little.· ·Foxes~'. By RICHARD BALAGUR If the elections held last week show anything it is that the voters will accept drastic changes within ·the framework of present structures but are very reluctant to accept changes outside a very dearly defined boundary. The issue o~ church and state relations is one .of those sacro- sanct barrier that not even a well financed and organized campaign by the state's Catholic bish- ops could overcome. On the other hand the election of Negro mayors in Gary, Indiana :md Cleveland show that a substantial pa11 of the white electorate was will ing to accept the time-honored tradition of politica-l organization by ethnic groups for their own self interest. Not Simple The issue ·Of the Blaine amendment and the state constitution is not as simple as it mi~ht appear. The .statistics indicate the constitutiOn gathered a \yes\ vote of only 28% but interpre· tations for the cause of this defeat range from emotional issues to the income and ethnic back- grounds of the voters. the election many priests read a message from the Cardinal or otherwise urged parishioners to vote in favor of the Constitution. No Support By RICHARD LUCAS Director of Residence Programs The Lillian Hellman drama, generally consid· ered to be the playwright's best work, holds up well after 28 years. Her saga is the ugly story of a predatory family in the turn-of-the-century South, in which the ruthless sister out-maneuvers her two unscrupulous brothers, precipitates her non-aggressive husband's death by heart attack and thereby ends as the ruler of the robbers' roost. Oscar Hubbard (E. G. Marshall) is the mean Anthony Tra;via, who was· president of the Con- vindictive weaker brother who vents his malice stitutional Convention had counted on support by slapping his gentle, alcoholic wife, Birdie from the state's Catholics, constituting 4(}% of (Margaret Leighton). Ben Hubbard (George C. the electorate, but not one county of the state's Scott) is the shrewder, abler, more sardonic 62 counties favored the constitution. A survey l>y brother. Regina (Anne Bancroft), their sister, is Peter Kihss of the New York Times showed~ a,mhitious for power, wealth and position. The that low income group areas favpred the con- · family's chance for big money rests on joining stitution while middle and high income areas a foxy manufacturer from Chicago and entering overwhelmingly opposed it. The appeal to low into a partnership to build a cotton mill. Regina's income groups was in the provisions of the new husband Horace (Richard Dysart) is the key document that would expand the state's ability figure in the deal. She orders him brought home to fight war against slums and poverty and the from a Baltimore hospital, and harasses him to assumption of welfare costs at the state level. ante up their share of the capital. Sick of the This same appeal to low income groups alientated family's greed and emotionally estranged from the higher income sectors. Regina, Horace refuses. New Mayors Fine Performance \The Little Foxes\ produced under the super- vision of Saint Suber, is an excellent start for the Lincoln Center Repertory season. It is indeed unfortunate that because it is an outside presen- tation, the play is a doubtful prospect \to be in- cluded in the rotating repertory due at the Beau· mont. ': · S.KI'DMORE .CALENDAR Thursday, ~ovember 16: Department of Education sponsors panel discussion given by senior majors In Elementary Education now student teaching. Topic: A Life Apart-Elementary .Student Teach- ing,\ 4 :3(} p.m .. Recreation Center. International Relations Conference sponsors movie, \The Collector,\ 7 and 9 p.m., Community Theatre. (Admission charge.) 'I·'•'! day and i'laturday, :Sovt'm bpr 1 7 and -18: Intern a~ tiona! Relations Conference at Skidmore: Subject. \Great Britain: The Changing of the Guard.\ .Fl'iday: Lecture, Great Britain: The Changing of the Guard,\ Dr. R. C. Neaverson, Assisitant Pro- fessor of Government, Trinity College, Hartford Conn., 8:30 p.m., College Hall. Katul'clay·: Panel Discussion: Topic, \Great Britain: From Empire to Island Nation,\ with Mr. Maul'ice Adams, Mr. Francis MacGinnis, Dr. Robert T. Smith, 10 a.m. to noon, Recreation Center. Panel Discussion: Topic, \Domestic Issues of Great Britain,\ with Mr. W. Chapman, Mr. Francis MacGinnis, Miss Ruth Meyerowitz, Dr. Edward P. Reagen, 1:30 to 3:00p.m .. Recreation Center. Lecture: \Recent Developments in the British Literary scene.\ Mr. Peter Bultenhuis. 3 to 4:30 p.m., Recreation Center working ~sian stu- establish- ingfUlties Emotionally the entire constitution had been opposed by such groups as . PEARL, the New York P.T.A. and the Liberal Party becatlse of the proposed repeal of the Blaine Amendment. They feared and opposed state aid to church related schools as the beginning of the end for the traditional barrier between the two institutions. ) The Catholic church, virtually the only body to strongly endorse passage on this issue although the Democrats backed repeal as did some Ortho· dox Jews, pressed a state-wide campaign to in· sure passage of the constitution and repeal. Ads portraying parochial school children unable to receive .psychiatric help available to those attend- ing pub'lic schools and others pleading for fair treatment for all children on the \child benefit\ theory were aired to gain support for the Both Richard J:[atcher and Cari Stokes, mayers. elect of Gary and Cleveland respectively are urban N egros with law school education and a history of public service. Neither was enthusias- tically supported by whites but neither engen- dered such opposition that their terms of office will be unbearable. Hatcher squeaked by with marginal white support in Gary but Stokes had to and did .get the support of whites in Gary which is only 35% colored. In Gary the Slavic, Czech, Po~sh, Greek and Apalachian whites gave Hatcher slightly less than 10% of the vote. It was these same areas that provided Governor Wallace his impressive vote in the Presidential Primary of 1964 and the backlash is as strong as ever. While white support for both candidates was minimal the greatest victory sco~ed was in the typieal comment.. of one housewife, \I didn't want it to turn out this way but as long as he does the job right we can get used to anything.\ The level of performing literally makes you hold your breath :(or fear that you may miss a flash of the marvelous cast. Anne Bancroft gives a fine performance as Regina. She plays the rol'e with a great deal of style and subtlety, although I suspect not the same degree of toughness which Tallulah Bankhead projected in the original pro· duction. Richard Dysart is excellent as the doomed husband, and there is a delicate, touching char- acterization by Margaret Leighton as the pathetic sister-in-law. George C. Scott has the proper blunt- ness, suggestion of greed and rasping arrogance required for the role of Ben, and I have never seen E. G. Marshall more persuasive. Panel Discussion: \Society and Literature,\ with Mr. Peter Bultenhuis, Mr. Ian Lawson, Mrs. Francis McGinnis, Dr. Edwin M. Moseley, 8 pm. Therese Filene Music Bullding, Recital Hall. 1tions rep- t funds go veral stu- es: World ·hich aids tiversities, • hip Fund,_ ~~ :ro Fund. 1 >groes and . te United d~ cannot be 'to some- about. I r accom- ief notice campu~ pus Chest functions. , that you te to the 1 registc'\ fanuary 3 .,,. ~. Council. NT r f Y. wnell t ... I I church's stand. At the Sunday Mass preceding Serving Union For 34 Years SilVER DINER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere ~- there's one place that does it ! • Watch Repairs • Rings Sized • Diamonds Reset • Engraving • Jewelry Repaired WORK DONE • Pearl & Bead Stringing 0111 THE PREMISES __ 1ti V Jl:'WELRY U.d.l... COMPANY 315 State Street, Schensctady FR 4-8219 LUIGI'S, RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food r· ----- 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6~9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar WE COOL ANYTHING .... BUT YOUR ENTHUSIASM I If fakes a big versofile firm to fit fhe I young engineer i11fo fhe tasks that hone his skills bes.t. Carrier Air Con- ditioning Company has hardworking careers open in research and product development, in sales ond service. manufacturing· ond application. We design a mix of mass-produced con- sumer items, heavy machinery, anc! · custom ·equipment for armed forces and the transportation ;ndusfry. Our equipment serves schools, subma- rines, skyscrapers,. bedrooms and bowling alleys ••• The world is our marker. Bring your enthusiasm to an interview.. We'll match it. On campus for interviews January 10, 1968 Mike Nichols' staging is superb. It is severe, disciplined and brooding with intimation. Howard Bay has designed a playable setting of a southern mansion living room, with adequate furnishings. The thrust stage of the Beaumont, however, in- evitably makes some lines unintelligible and occasionally blocks certain of the actors visually. :nnntlay, Xoven1ber 20: Movie sponsored by Eromdiks, '\Years of Lightning, Days of Drums.\ (Kennedy Documentary), 7 and 9 p.m .. Community Theatre. (Admission charge.) . , 'l'nPsday, No\·embet· 21: Lecture: \Opportunities in the Field and Current Bill to License Interior Design- ers,\ (also, presentation of scholarship awards), Mrs. Blanche Miller, Chairman, Empire State Chapter, National Society of Interim· Desig-ners, 4 :30 p.m .. Starbuck Center. Which Union College man is a decision-maker at G~neral Electric? S. Welrford Corbin graduated from Union College in 1930, and joined General Electric as a student engineer. Today, as Vice President and .General Manager of the Indus- trial Sales Division, he heads what i-s probably the world's largest indus- trial sales operation. Decision-maker? You bet! But every Union College grad gets llis sha~~ _ 6f re~.p.~nsibility at General Elecfrh:. •· ·· ·· (They all.are) Take Chris Hoyt, '65, a product planner with the Large .Generator and Motor Department-He prepares tech- nical literature to back-up product sales, and provides busimess for-e- casts for manufacturing services:·· And analytical physicist Herbert Holder, '65, solves design problems on nuclear reactor cores at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory. Responsibility and decision- GENERAL ELECTRIC Ah Equal Opportunity Employer making come early at General Elec- tric. WfJ're growing so fast and in so many challenging areas that there's no waiting for the big oppor- tunities. How about you? Do you have what it takes to make important de~ cisions for General Electric? l.f you think you do, talk to the General Electric recruiter when .he's on campus. 910-34

Thursdt~y, November 16, 1967 16, 1967 7 ,., C~hurch-State Separation Intact; G:ary, Clevelan,d, Elect Negro Mayors Nichols Revives ~~Little Foxes~ .. Nards rnak- into .. I ~:• Her, '71. ~--------~------~~------------------1 By RICHARD BALAGUR the election many priests read a message from If the elections held last week show anything the Cardinal or otherwise urged parishioners to • f<~ it is that the voters will accept drastic changes vote in favor (Jf the Constitution within the framev.ork of present structures bwt 1 are very reluctant to accept changes outside a very clearly defined boundary. Th€ issue of church and state relatiot'ts is one of those sacro- No Support r· sanct barrier that not even a well financed and organized campaign by the state's Catholic bish- ops could overcome. On th.c other hand the electioN of Negro mayor~ in Gary, Indiana and Cleveland show that a substantial part of the white electorate was wi II in,g to accept the time-honored thf' Novem- Concordi· that an under the oes injus- •• oriented Anthony Travia, who was pre>sidet·lt of the Con- stitutional Convention had cownted on support from the state's Catholics, constituting 40'; of the electorate, but not onl• ('Otmtv of the state's 62 count!es favored the eonstitution. A survey by Peter K1hss of the New York Times showed that low income group areas favored the con- stitution while middle and hig!:l income areas overwhelmingly opposed it. The appeal to low income groups was in the provisions of the new document that would expand the state's abilitv to fight war against slums and povcrtv and the assumption of welfare costs at the state leveL Th.is same appeal to low inconw groups alie>ntated charity that who l 1 a~~f~ apathy on ., ..,. out Campus theusand j ntion was., • this s~:~m 1 f this wiH I Ka·rbasa· 1• A second •1 to devotl! working stu- c :·~ establish- ties rep· funds go t~r'w stu- World I hich aids iversities. , ·\ Fund. Fund. and e United '• I be 1 to som<'- about. 1 accom- .-;; ef notice ~ campu-; pus Chest .• that YNI to the> registrr ::l ,·~ r ' ••• l I ,. ~ i ~ i ! I ,., l tradition of political or~anization by ethnic groups for their own self inte>rest. Not Simple The issue of the Elaine amendment and the state constitution is not as simple as it might appear. The statistics indicate the constitution gathered a \yes\ vote of only 28'; but interpre- tations for the cause of this defeat range from emotional issues to th~ income and ethnic back- grounds of the voters. Emotionally the entire constitution had been opposed by such grottps as PEARL, the New York P.T.A. and the Liberal Party because of the proposed repeal of the Blaine Amendment. They feared and opposed state aid to chu reb related schools as the beginning of the end for the traditional barrier bet\veen the two institutions. The Catholic church, virtually the only body to strongly endorse passage on this issue although the Democrats backed repeal as did some Ortho- dox Jews, pressed a state-wide campaign to in- sure passage of the constitution and repeal. Ads portraying parochial school children unable to receive psychiatric help available to those attend· ing public schools and others pleading for fair treatment for all childi\en on the \child benefit .. theory were aired to gain support for the church's stand. At the Sunday Mass preceding the higher income sectors. · New Mayors Both Richard Hatcher and Carl Stokes, mayors elect of Gary and Cleveland respectively are urban Negros with law school education and a history of public service. Neither was enthusias- tically supported by whites but neither engen- dered such opposition that their terms of office IVill be unbearable. Hatcher squeaked by with marginal white support in Gary but Stokes had to and did get the support of whites in Gary which is only 35'( colored. In Gary the Slavic, Czech, Polish, Greek and Apalachian \\ hites gave Hatcher slightly less than 10'; of the vote. It was these same areas that provided GoverNor Wallace his impressive vote in the Prf'sidential Primarv of 1964 and the backlash is as strong as evet:. While white support for both candidates was minimal the greatest victory sc-ored was in the typical comment of one housewife \I didn't want it to turn out this way but as 'long as he does the job right we can get used to anything.\ ~------------------~--~----~----~ Serving Union For 34 Years SILVER D~INER of Schenectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellenf Food and Informal Atmosphere there's one place that does it! • Watdt Repairs • Diamonds Reset 0 Jewelry Repaired WORI< DONE G Rings Sized • Engraving at Pearl & Bead Stringing ON THE PREMISES J~'WElRY COMPANY 315 Stata Street. Schenectady FR 4-8219 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING 1~4 Italian 1125 BARRETT ST. American Food Schenectady Dl 6~9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar By RICHARD I, UCAS Director of Residence Program!; Tl'le Lillian Hellman drama, generally consid- ered to be the playwright's best work. holds up well after 28 years. Her saga is the ugly ~tory of a predatory family in the turn-of-the-<:entHry S0uth. iN which the ruthless sister out-maneuvers her two UNs<:rupulous brothers, precipitates her non-aggressive l:msbaHd 's death by heart attack aNd thereby ends as the ruler of the robbers' roost. Oscar Hubbard 1 E. G. :\larshall! i~ the m can vindictive weaker brother who vents hi~ mali<:e by slappin~ his gmtle, alcoholic wife, Birdie UVlargaret Leighton). Ben llubbard < Georgp C. Sc•Jtt! is the shrewder. abler, more sanlunie brother. Regina I Anne Bancroft!. their sister. is ambitious for power·, wealth und position. 'i'he family's chance for big money rests on joining a foxy manufacturer from Ch.icago and entering iNto a partnership to build a cotton mill. Regina·s husbaNd Horace (Richard Dvsart! is the l{{'\' figure iH the deaL She o·rders ·him brought home from a Baltimore hospital, and harasses him to ante up their share of the capital Sick of the family's greed and emotionally Pstrangt>d from Rl'aina. Horace refuses. Fine Performance The level of performing literally makes you hold yowr breath for fear that you may miss a flash of the marvelous cast. ANne Bancroft givps a fine performance as Regina. She plays the role with a great deal of style and subtlety, although I suspect not the same degree of toughness \hich Tallulah Bankhead projected in the original pro- duction. Richard Dysart is excellent as the doomed .husband, and there is a delicate, touching char acterization by Margaret Leighton as the pathetic sister-in-law. George C. Scott has the proper blunt- ness, suggestion of greed and rasping arrogance required for the role of Ben, aNd I haw m•vrr .seen E. G. !\larshall more pcrsuasin'. l\1ike Nichols' staging is superb. It is severe. disciplined and brooding \\'ith intimation. Hmvard Bay has designed a playable setting of a southern mansion living room, with adequate furnishings. The thrust stage of the Beaumont. howerer. in- evitably makes some lines unintelligible and occasi<mall~· blocks certain of the actors visually. \Thl• Little Foxes\ pr·oduced uader the sttper- rision of Saint Suber. is an excellent start for the Lincoln Center Repertory season. It is indeed unfortunate that because it is an outside presen- tatiot't, the play is a doubtful prospect to be in- eluded in the rotati.ng repl•rtory duP at the Beau mont. 1'11111\''''\~· :-,,.lt'llli1t•r lh: Departtllt'llt ol Education \·.poll~or~ panel di~_cus~iun gi\·pn by sezuur znalurl-- 111 El<•mentary Ecluc·atl<lll now student t1·ach ng Topic· A Life Ap.trt ~ -Ell'llll'!ltary StuciPn t Teach· ing.\ 4 :~0 JLlll .• f1l'<:reatloll Center. InternatlolJal HE'latiolls Co!IIPreuce sponsul> mol'i<·. \The Cullectur.\ 7 aucl !l pIll. Cumrnunlty Thwtn•. 1 Aclmissiun char\c' 1 l\ri<l.II an.ll ~a(;Jirllal, '\o\t'lllht•r r:· and IX: lll'tenut- tional R?latlons\contc•rl'JH'l' at Skldltl<lrt•: Subject'. ··Great Britaiu: Tile' Chall~lll\ of Lh£' Ciuanl.\ l'rilh1): Lrct\ll\l'. Gn·at Bnta111 Till' Cil.lll!Pllg ul the Gnarcl.\' Dr. R. L' Ncavc·rsll!l. Assis1tm1t Pro- fes~or of Government. Tnnit v CoiiP~e. Hanford ComL. 8:80 p n1 .. C:olll·e;e Halt\ \atunla): Panel Dt~cussiun · Topic. '\Great Britain. From Empire to lsbucl Nation.·· with Mr. Maurlct· Adams. Mr fo'rancis I'I.IacGIIllllb. Dr Robert T Snuth. 10 am to noon. RPen•atitHI Ceuter. Pauel Discussion: Topic, \Domestic Issues u1 Great Britain,\ with Mr. W. Cha.pman, J\lr. Francis MacGinms. Miss Ruth J\ll.')'l'I\IJW!tZ. Dr. Edward P Reagen, 1 :~0 tu 3:00 p.ln., He crcutlu!l Center. LectUie: \Reccut De relupmeub 111 tile Britbl! Literary Sce11e\ Mr. Pett·r Buitenhnls, :~ tu -1:3U p m .. RecrPa tlun Cen t~r Patll'l Diccussiou: \Soci<'l 1· anti Literature.·· wltll :l.!r. Petl'r Buitrnhuts. 1\.!r. Ian Luwsua. Mt;,. Franeis McGmnls, Dr 'Edwlll M Moseley, 8 p.rn There'e FiletH' Mtbil' Bulltllll\ Recital Hul'l. \lo1u:a~, :-.ow111her '!ll: 1\IO\'Il' :;puusured by Emmdlk\. ·y, ar~ of Ligl1tnlng. Days of Drums:· 1 Kennedy Documentary!. 7 ancl ~~ p m. Communi tv TheatrE> 1 Admission c!wrgP 1 Tut·~tla). :'>uwn1lu\· \!I: LectUll'. ··oppurtuullil'ti In lilt· Field and Current Bill t\ LicPns.- IntPrior Design- ers,\ lalso. p1·csentati\l' ot ~clmlarsllip awards!. Mrs. Blanche Miller, Chairman. Empire State Chapter. Na tiona! Society of I nt r>rior D<·si~ners. ~ :30 p.m., Starbuck Center I {;a WE COOL ANYTHING ••• BUT YOUR ENTHUSIASM Which Union College man is a decision-maker at General Electric? l!r f j • If fakes a big versatile firm to fit the young engineer info the tasks thor hone his skills besf. Carrier Air Con- ditioning Company hos hardworUng careers open in research and product development, in sales and service, manufacturing· and application. We design a mix of mass-produced con- sumer items, heavy machinery, and custom equipment for armed forces and the fransporfofion industry. Our equipment serves schools, subma- rines, skyscrapers, bedrooms and bow/;ng alleys •.. The world is our market. Bring your enfhusiasm to an interview. We' 1/ match if. On campus for interviews January 10, 1968 S. Wellford Corbin graduated from Union College in 1930, and joined General Electric as a student engineer. Today, as Vice President and General Manager of the Indus- trial Sales Division, he heads what i-s probably the world's largest indus- trial sales operation. Decision-maker? You bet! But every Union College grad gets his share of resp9nsibility at General Electric. · (The·y aU .are) Take Chris Hoyt, '65, a product planner with the Large Generator and Motor Department. He prepares tech- nical literature to back-up product sales, and prov:des busit:~ess fore- casts for manufacturing services.- And analytical physicist Herbert Holder, 1 65, solves design problems on nuclear reactor cores at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory. Responsibility and decision- GENERAL.ELECTRIC A\ Equal Opoortu\lty E\\'ploy<S>r making come early at General Elec- tric. We're growing so fast and in so mal'ly challenging areas that there's no waiting for the big oppor- tunities. How about you? Do you have what it takes to make important de- cisions for General Electric? If you think you do, talk to the Gene-ral Electric recruiter when he's on campus.

8 Hoopsters Prepare For Rugged Opener; By GARY PltEVOST New faces may well hold the key to a successful season for the Garnet cagers. Coach Chris Schmid, who comes to the varsity after producing six consecutive winning teams as freshmen coach, will carry a fourteen-man squad, seven of whom are sophomores. Of the remaining squad, five are lettermen from last year's 9-11 team. deadly outside shot, Pete has been shifted to guard this season. Jim Getman, a 6·2 forward, averaged 10.9 points per game as a freshman, and is a good outside shooter and rebounder, The other sophomores are 5-8 gt1ard Craig Carlson (11.9 points average), 5-8 guard Barry Katzmann, 6·0 guard Jeff Kirkpatrick, a good defensive player, 5-7 guard Ed Buzak, and 6•6 ·Center Rich Heiden. Thursday, November .16, 1967 Schmid C.onfident The '66-67 cagers lost six ball games by six points or less, and Coach Schmid feels that winning such close games will be the key to the season. He is confident he can mould a team that can win the tough games, and if his frosh teams of the past few seasons are any indication, the odds are in favor of a successful year. • Thursday, · ,., I 1.6 \· Un] ~. By l One of the biggest problems last season was that o'f creating a The Garnet open against a strong Norwich team in the field· basic starting unit whi.ch could produce consistently. Coach Schrilid FROSH CAGERS In what house on Friday, December 1, at 8:15, following the freshman expects to break llis squad down to a nucleus of six: @r seven Coach 'Gary Brown is· also priming his freshman squad '' to be. its 1 opener. players who will see most of the action. As of yet, however, no for their debut versus .'.\lorwich. Impressive thus far for the date, the defenite starting team has emerged. frosh have been Rit Galluci, a rugged rebounded at 6·3%, Rule\ of th Heading the list of returning lettermen is 6-1 senior Bill Pris- and sharp-shooting guard Dave Shames, 6-0. Also outstanding Ath.etic A cott, who was the Garnet's only consistent outside shooter last Schmid considers the team to be weak defensively, and there· in preseason have been 5-8 Guy Bartle, 6-0 Paul Ramsey, (n up for reviE season, and was second in scoring with a 10.8 average. A forward fore he will be str-essing defense (man to man rather than last and 6-1% Barry Fitzgerald. These five have the early edgE nua'l conve last year, Priscott will play guard this season. Fitz Turner, a 6-5 year's zone) and rebounding, hoping to mould a team which can for star.ting roles. New York senior center, was the leadmg rebounder last year, and was fourth fall back on its defense when it experiences a cold-shooting night. Right behind this qintet are guard John Margolis and schools thr in sc~ring with 10.1 points per game. Senior forward Jim D.errick, Consistent outside .shooting, which was lacking last year, should frontcour,ter Bob Berger, along with. Jay Joseph and CharliE: .... \ inciuding . i who 1s the squad's tallest J.?an at 6-~. was the second leadmg _re· be improved this year- with the addition of Garrison, N\eidel and Reutlinger, two fine shooters; Completing the .fourteen man League col1 bounder las~ season, averagmg ?·1 pomts per ~an;te. Also returnmg Feldman. Pass work and ball-handling, needs to be improved, squad are .John Howell (injured), Ed Starbuck, Dale Long, ly opposed are 6-2 semor forward Tad Kmght and 5-10 JUmor guard Warren but the task may be difficult with two forwards, Garrison and Pris- Steve G:vuberg, and Jim Boardwell. tight for it: Mumford. I c~o~t~t·~:!.m~o·~v~e~d~t~o~th~e::._· 2:b~a~ck~c~o~u~r:_:t.:__ _______ . _______ ..!=:============================' ~ ;, peal. Two returning non-lettermen are very important to Coach : Schmid. Bill Neidel, a 6-4 senior forward, was the leading rebounder BICMedlulll Polt~tiOI The rule and second leading scorer with a 14.0 average on the 1965-66 team. Bill spent his junior year in Switzerland, and faces the taslt of cle Four ol readjusting after the one year layoff. Junior Cliff Feldman at 6-4' ., ,., It contains will he an important addition in the front court. As a freshman,. The first P· Feldman averaged 14 points per game, and was the number .six nancial aic man on last year's varsity before academic difficulties put him on BIC.Fino Polnt25t predicted n the sidelines. averages of Heading the sophomore contingent is Pete Garrison, who aver· aged 18.8 points per game last year. A good jumper at 6-2, with a ·----- -- ----·~--- __ c.~· -~---------- Holiday Tourney At Union After a year's departure from the Union College sports scene, the Union Christmas invitational returns on December 28-30 in the Field House. In addition to the Garnet the 1967 tourney field is comprised of Lehigh, Hope, and MIT. The 1967 tourney will be the seventh Xmas extravaganza held at Union since the inaugural held in 1957. The 1957 tournament which featured Union, Siena, RPI and Hamilton received national publicity because of the experimental basket that was used. Stops Congestion At the suggestion of Ed Wachter, a recreational director in Troy, a basket extended twenty inches from the backboard and ten foot-five inches from the floor was used during the tourney. The idea of the basket was to prevent congestion at the hoops and to lessen the influence of the \big\ man. An appeal to the national basketball committee using information from the tournament to present the case for the new backboard was unsuccessful. The reaction to the tourney, which was won by RPI with Union second, was that the innovation actually helped the \big man.\ Finished Third In the last two tourneys at Union in 1964 and 1965 the Garnet have finished third, behind Kenyon and Alfred in 1964 and behind Depauw and Hope in 1965. The 1967 tourney may be a tough one for the Garnet. Lehigh and MIT both play schedules which are considerably more difficult than the Garnet slate. Lehigh was 11-12 last season under Pete Carrill who is now Princeton coach, but should be strong in 1967. MIT was 19-4 in 1966. Two years ago the Garnet split a pair of contests with the Engineers. Hope College of Holland, Michigan is a small school with only 900 men, but the ~Flying Dutchmen produce fine bl;lsketball teams. Last season they compiled a 15-7 mark. In December 1968 Union will travel to Holland, Michigan to compete in Hope's Xmas tourney. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays S P.M. to 1 A.M. Schenectady Printing Co., Inc. 502 Broadway 377-8838 'ffl~m;· Despite fiendish torture dynamic BiC Dull writes first time, every time! Bic's rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-poiut skip, clog and smear. Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, BIC still writes first time, every time. And no wonder. sic's \Dyamite\ Ball is the hardest metal made; encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, cbg or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic BIC Duo at your campus store now. WATERMAN·BIC PEN CO~P. MILFORD, CONN. ·~==========-========================:--·/ Man with computer dating card I :• 7 s ~ Lo ... I met girl with I :u;u·~ • ?u• I. Things were going *!# !! @! until he offered her a Genesee Beer. Now they are Mr.~ Mrs. I :•? s~ •o~~~ I GE'N OR(W CO. ROCH NV I won't • L. • h go 1ato .u-us1ness w en I graduate because: 0 a. I'd lose my individuality. 0 b. It's graduate school for me. 0 c. My mother wants me to be a doctor. Can't argue with c), but before you check a) or b) -pencils up! There have been some changes. Drastic changes in the business scene. But changes in the vox populi attitude regarding business ... especially on camp1.1s .. , just haven't kept pace. Take the belabored point that business turns you into a jellyfish. The men who run most of the nation's successful firms didn't arrive by nepotism, by trusting an Ouija board, or by agreeing with their bosses. Along the way, a well-modulated \No\ was said. And backed up with the savvy and guts t<l· day's business demands. In short, individuality is highly prized i11 much of the business world-the successflll much. Even when the business is big. Like Western Electric, the manufacturing and sup- oly unit of the Bell System. We provide communications equipmentf<lr cur Bell System teammates, the Bell telephone companies, This takes a lot of thought, deci- sions, strong stands for our convictions, (and sometimes some mistU.es . .;. we're human, every 160,000 of us). . Individuality pays· 6ff. Not only in raises, but in personal reward as well. Like an engi- neer who knew deep down that there was a better way to make a certain wire connector -and did. Or a WE gal who streamlined time- consuming office procedures, and saved us some $63,000 a year. Rewards and accolades. For sayiq.g \No.\ For thinking creatively and individu:illy. For doing. Not every hour is .Fun Hour, but if you've got imagination and individuality-you've got it made. With a business like Western Electric. We'll even help you answer b) with o1,1r Tui- tion Refund program. Come on in and go for President! ~ Wtster11 Electric e' MANUFACTURING & SUPPlY UNIT OF TllE BEll SYSTEM ,. \ average, ba scores, high and other an attempt .., ·. 01 tional scale for success Very fe\1 strong obje · * section, .sir based on tl academic IE general attt '\ formance 1 great contr< the second rule. ., Cuts ( As it nov quiries any ., to cut off 1 in-aid assis1 whose grad below the 1 w ated to try of college football pla major spm the 1950's : 9 definition 1 sorely strel leges in ~ winning te< Although curs, the helped to l the scholar \' other hand, I' shou 453 St1

1967 and key win are the and man .. Thursday, November 16., 1967 9 ,., \1.6 Rule Facing Tough Test; I Hamilton .... Continued from Page 19 much less trouble. In fact, the Continentals needed a .24-point rally to nip the Larries, after Williatnson Hits 265 For Keg ling Mark \' ~. Union To Fight For Change trailing 34-12. Only against RPI By ROB ERIANNE was Hamilton more impressive, Sandy Williamson nissed per- Greg Ellis' 207-588 was decisive in Team # l's shutout of 'l'eam #4. By IIENRY FEIN In what will certainly prove • to be. its most crucial test to date, the controversial \1.6 Rule\ of the National Collegiate Ath.etic Association wili come ciailly in the East, have greatly resented the attempt by the NCAA to regulate their aca- demic and scholarship policies tn up for review at the NCAA's an- nual convention, to he held in New York January 8-10. Many schools throughout the nation, .... \ inciuding Un10n and the Ivy League coHeges, have continua~· ly opposed the rule, and will tight for its modification or re- peal. Early in October, Union Col- lege officially informed the NCAA that it could not abide by the 1.600 rule as it now stands. This means that Garnet teams will be unable to com- pete in post-season tournaments. controlled by the NCAA, such as regional baseball champion- ships won by the Garnet in 1965. 'I ., ~· Limits Aid The rule is contained in Arti- cle Four of the NCAA by-laws. ,., It contains two major sections. The first part limits athletic fi- nancial aid to freshmen with predicted minimum grade point averages of 1;600 or better. This \ average, based on college board scores, high school performance, and other academic factors, is an attempt to measure, on a na- tional scale, a student's chapces for success in college. Very few coll~ges have any strong objections with this f).rst section, .since it is not at all based on the individual school's academic level, but is instead a general attempt to predict per- formance at any school. The great controversy centers around the second paragraph of the rule. Cuts Off Scholarship As it now stands, the rule re- quiries any school in the NCAA to cut off scholarship or grant- in-aid assistance to any athlete whose grade point average falls below the 1.600 level. It was cre- w ated to try to limit the \paying\ of college athletes, especially football players, by some of the major sports schools. During the 1950's and early 1960's, the o definition of amateurism was sorely stretched by many col- leges in attempts to develop winning teams. • Although the practice still oc- curs, the rule has certainly helped to limit the abusing of the scholarship rules. On the \' other hand, many schools, espe- Committee Acts Upon the recommendation of the Faculty Athletic Committee, President Harold Martin wrote the chairman of the NCAA to iniform him of Union's action. In doing so, the Garnet joined the Ivy League and other East- ern independents who have re- jected the rule. In a recent in- .terview, Dr. Martin e~pressed the college's official position thus: \We are unwilling to let an outside agency ... dictate scholarship or academic terms to the college ... It comes down to an authority of an institution over its students.\ Good Prospects Professor Wilford Ketz, Di- rector of Athletics, feels that there is a good chance for a change in the 1.600 rule. As a member of the Executive Com- mittee of the ECAC and as chairman of the NCAA District II College Committee, Mr. Ketz has important contacts with ath- letic directors across the coun• try, The ECAC has received support from numerous confer- ences in many areas, including the Missouri Valley, Ohio, Yan- kee, Ivy League, and Atlantic Coast conferences. He feels that the floor battle will probably re- su 1 t in an amendment to the rule, with total repeal highly un- likely. An amendment, which is gain- ing wiidespread support, would change the vital paragraph so that the \critierion for inter- collegiate competition would be those athletes \who satisfy the Fashioned Soft 'n lofty, these imported yarns from the Shetland Isles. Full fashioned with saddle shoulders, this crew-neclt pullover comes in c..: ·.1,... 1 ··v heather tones that look subtle and super} $10.95 DAVE 1 S Open Thurs. & Fri. 'till9 P .. M. 453 State Street FR 4-9609 taking advantage of eleven En- fection by a narrow margin as official institutional regulations gineer turnovers for the shut- he fired a 265 single in the governing normal progress to- out. Dutch Classic Thursday night, war da degree for all students Th · f November 2. The big game set ..1S well as any other applicable e game IS 0 utmost impor- a modern record in organized tance for Union, even beyond institutional eiigibility rules, in- the shot at a winning season. The bowling at Union and sent the eluding those of the athletic Garnet have only beaten one op- talented soph on his way to- conference.\ This would, in ef- ponent expected to be formid- ward a fine 656 series. Also hit- feet, retum control over .ath- able, Rochester. They have thus ting weH that ·evenin~ was Ken letes to the individual schools, far won the games they expect- Merchant, who had 2~3-620. a move favored by the Eastern ed to win, and Iost those which A week later se:nior John colleges. appeared to be the toughest Hine moved into the individual The ECAC has no 1.600 rule, from the outset of the seasen. lead with a 190 avErage, but but is nevertheless considered Also they need this victory to Team #3 dropped three points to have the most restrictive put the stops on a two game to Moffett's Liquor StClre behind rules in the nation. Its regula- slide which, aided by a defeat Frank Herba's 200-5!t8; tions over amateur status of at the hands of Hamilton, could Team #9 remained the loop students are far more specific continue right into next season, pacesetter despite :losing three than most others. The ECAC at least within the mental atti- points to Team # 5; Ed Fauth rules restrict financial aid to tude of the team members. The ::~nrl Steve Markus pased the up- the athlete's need as determined sophomore dominated team set with . 212-613 and 222-558, by the College Scholarship Serv- needs this victory to pr.ove to respectively, while AI Case's 545 ice. Although this has been themselves, and to their coach, was tops for the losers. somewhat liberalized in recent that they are really as potent as Williamson's 200-li41 and Jim years, amounts awarded to East- they were expected to be. Five McBride's fine 248-627 were only ern athletes are in general far wins and three losses would be good enough to earn Team # 7 below that of other areas. In quite a fine rebuilding season, a split with Team #10. In other many 'other parts of the nation, but 4-4 with three consecutive matches, Bernie's MidHill Tav- athletes receive tuition, fees, losses would always leave a ern toook three pojnts from books, livin,g expenses, and oft- shadow of doubt about the real Team # 2 though MikE Fishman -,-e_n_an_. _e_x.=p~e_n_se_a_c_co~u_n_t~. ·~ ____ s_t_re_n_:gt=-.h_· o_f_th_I_· s_t_e_a_m_. _____ c_o_n_n....:e...:.c..:..te::.::d for 206-566, and Some say we specialize in power •.. power for propulsion •.• power for auxiliary systems ... power for aircraft, missiles and space vehicles ••• power for rnarine and industrial applications ••• In league action two weeks ago team #9; behind Al Case's 570 triple took three points from team # 1 and moved temporar- ily into first place. In spite of Williamson's 656 team #4 lost three points to Cavalier's Res- taurant. \The load\ and his 620 paced team #4. Team # 2 swept four points from team #10, Gary Prevost scored 201- 554 for # 2 white Tim H<>use had 521 for # 10. Five weeks of bowling have placed Moffett's in seventh place behind front-running team #'9, sporting a 12-8 record. Moffett's stands 10-10. Action. in the Capital District Intercollegiate League reslllted in Union.defeating Hudson Val- ley 3-1 on November 5, and then slumping. to a 1-3 setback against host RPI # 1 last Mon- day. Williamson led the Gamet win with 523 in a low-sc<ning match, characteristic of RPI's tough Student Union lanes, while Case was high in the lat- ter competition with 551. ••• they're riahl. be said, instead, that we specialize in people, for we believe that people are a most And wrona. important reason foro ur company's success. We act on that belief. We select our engineers and sCientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them tile equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opf)ortunities. Encourage them to push into fields that have n()t been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit .more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. You could be one of the reasons for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's success ..• if you have a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AER()NAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCIEN~E ;. ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECiiANICS. And we could be the bi~ reason for your success. Consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department; Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. :· Pratt & Whitney Aircraft . . '\\tc. ·· .. . ··1. . ··u ;o'VToN OF UNITED l=IRAFT CORP. COfiiNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAsfHARTfORD, CONNECTIClJT I. A.n Equal Opportunity Employer

\little Foxes\ Page7 Concordy Sports Winter Registration Page 3 --- .......... --------·- II - Garnet Now 4-3 As Alfred Takes ICAC; Editors ·Corner: mmwmmw?Jilm!t.'l!wta@m~im!M~ ~- Player of the Week Winning Season Rides On Hamilton Test u ~~~~~1.~~=~:;$1S~=ii*\*~W11~~~~~~:re:::-A:*~iWi~~~K:::@:!l::ti ~,iMlMt~m;$~~l~~ifili:t::~'By Gary Prevost \He kept us in the .game.\ Vol. 97- By LEN SIMON With help from two key in- juries and a woefully weak of- fensive line showing by Union, Alfred took the ICAC grid title with a 14-0 victory Saturday on their home grounds. Two touch- down passes from Mike .John- ston to Fred Gross accounted for the two home markers, and the Saxons held the Garnet to minus 24 yards on the ground. Possibly a hint of the final outcome came on the first Union set of downs on offense. After electing to kick off 'With the wind, the Garnet recovered an Alfred fumble at the home team's 35, but could not take advantage of the early 'break to drive for a score. Two incom- plete passes, sandwiched around a five yard loss, forced Union to punt, and a poor snap from center kept Ron McAvoy from putting the Saxons into poor fie 1d position. Showed No Punch Alfred, however, showed no lack of punch at all, as they drove 72 yards on 11 plays, most of them coming on the arm of Johnston. He hit Bill Knott for 18 yards, and then connected with Gross for the score from 25 yards away. Bower added the extra point. Late in the first quarter, Un- ion drove to the Alfred 8, and was confronted with a third-and- one. A run by Joe James was stopped cold by the huge Alfred line, and a fourth down pass from Ken Pearce to Rich Swan was batted down. Union suf- fered from relying exclusively on James and Swan, with their running mates Kevin :Monahan and Craig Carlson sidelined with injuries. The Alfred de- fense keyed on these two stellar operatives, and easily handled the Garnet offensive line on both passes and runs. t'he second and third quarters of the game fell into a patte:r;n of Exchanging punts, as neither offense· could get untracked. Al- fred could not penetrate the Garnet f-ront wall, and usually cou.l'd not afford J o h n s t o n enough· protection to connect for the long bomb with either Knott or Gross. Union also had its troubles, as no holes were opened .for James, and Swan could work loose only for short passes,. with the Saxon defense set up to stop the long bomb. ThE fleet sophomore did man- age to. catch 14 passes for 142 yards, and also performed well on punt and kickoff runbacks. Art Jacobs filled in for Carlson, and did an adequate job until he 'A'as injured late in the game. 'The turning point may have come .in the fourth period, when Union again faced a third-and- onE situation deep in Alfred ter- ritory. Two runs by James were stopped dead, as the powerful SwanNam~. S()phomore split end Rich • Swan has been named to the ECAC Divisioin III weekly All-Star team for the third· time this season for his play i.n the 14-0 loss to Alfred. Ironically one of the players · ••swanny\ beat out for the: nod was Fred Gross of the . Sax:ons, who scored both· touchdowns to beat the Gar- net. The fleet receiver was first named to the team for his game versus St. Law- rence, and then was honored as sophomore-of-the-week for his performance against Ro- chestei'. He should be in con- . tenti<>n for Sophomore-of-the- 'Year honors. junior was afforded no blocking at all by the right side of the lin~.. Alfred put the finishing \ouqh.es on the victory by driv- ing 62 yards in eight plays. The pattern was the same, as John- ston found Knott for 21 yards, and then threw a 2fJ yarder to Gr<Jss, which was batted around in the ·end zone. A final Garnet drive ended at the Alfred 18 as a fourth down pass fell incom- plete. All there was to cheer about for Union was another good de- fensive effo'rt. The front four were excel'lent, led by a peak performance by .John Burton who was sup.ported .strongly by Sam Dill and Andy Anderson. Lh1ebacker Skip Lynich played another bruising game in the middle, and defensive back Steve Ciesinski picked off two Johnston aerials. New Alignment On ()ffense, Pearce hit on 23 of 41 for 216 yal'ds, and Swan and .Jacobs. made good showings. Running backs James and Den- nis Moffitt cannot be fau1ted, as they were normally faced with a solid wall of Saxon defenders as they took a handoff. This week, coach Flood is experimenting with a revamped offensive line, with M:onahan at tight end, Ted Jennings rr:oving from left to right tackle, and Mike McFar- lane at right guard. Should M()nahan's ankle show full strength, this alignment may be used in the season's finale with Hamilton Saturday. The contest with Hamilton, which is the difference between an even season and the first win- nin~ season in 10 years, should find tile Garnet at full strength, with the possible exception of Monahan. Carlson should be ready to play, taking some of the pressure off Swan .. - ·~ . 5-l Continentals Powerful Threat Union has played more foot- ball games against Hamilton than againist any other team on our schedule. A victory by Un- ion in the 72nd meeting· between these long timie rivals would give the Garnet their first win- ning season since 1956, and also wou~d even up the series, which began in 18£0 and now stands at 29-30-12. In moving to a 5-1 record thus far, the Continentals have shown a fi11e running gaine, with backs Pomevo.y .. and : Effinger . doing most of the wor.l>.. They dQ pose an aerial. threat also, ·a:s the combination of · F'reedman to Tietal has clicked often enough to keep opposition defenses guessing. Their line is not big, but relies on quickness and mo- bilitiy t<J get the job done. The Hamilton defense has been either excellent or terrible thus far, sho'Wing three shutouts, one six point game, and two con- tests in which they allowed over thirty points. Hamilton Favored Sporting a 5-1 slate, as corn- pared to the Garnet's 4-3, they would seem to be certain favor- ites, but the margin is reduced when one takes into account the caliber of opponents. Hamilton has do'Wned RPI 22-0, Hobart 28-0, Middlebury 16-6, Wesleyan 16-0, and St. Lawrence 36-34, while dropping a 42-21 decision to tough Rochester. In games with common opponents Union must rate an edge, having beat- en Rochester and having dis- posed of St. Lawrence with Continued on Page 9 ,.·' . I ' •• l~ J1 Gershon's ··s_,(:_ Rich Swcm Rugby The Union C()llege Rugby Club, in its _second year of ex- istence has., already begun to create an impoTtant place for itself in the Ga:rp.et sports pic- ture. The club held two matches this fall, defeating Albany Law 9-3 October 28, but dropping a 13-5 decision to a strong Albany Medical club last Saturday. In the Albany Law victory, all three goals were scored on penalty kick~ by Garnet captain Bill Porter. Other methods of scoring are kicking from the field, a rare sight, ~nd downing the ball over the op- ronents' goal line, similar to a fortball touchdown. This is called a \try.\ The Albany Medical Rugby c·ub, led by former Darmouth captain T. Dean, defeated the Garnet 13-5 here on Alex:ander Field. The lone Garnet try was scored by Russ Gee, with Bill Porter making the extra points. OLEY'S LIQUOit STORE ·:~i(·ilf Sandwiches Cpld Cuts · · Salads Cor. Eastern & Jackson f . 'FRANK .. FERRARi) . Wholesale and Retail fruits and Procluee - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE SlREET Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-1763 CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 Union St. FR 7-1283 Frames and Lenses Replaced Prescriptions Filled --·---· --- The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SIIOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 fl) 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 Special Consideration Open Tues. Sun. -for Union Men-377-0350 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-06171600 Union St. PICK UP AN EYTRA TREATI Parkwood Blvd. at Rugby R.d. Dial 393-3631 . , CALL ••• YOUa C)aDII. WUL.IE,JIADY WHIII YOU AIRIVII WRAPUP WARM Find the high-calorie clothing necessary in this Establishment. Of finest woollen, deep pile or what fabric the Gentleman desires, the outer garments here shown are calculated to make the most of inner warmtli. Wl'ap up today I The 326 STATE ST. PH. 377-3061 Open Thurs. & Fri. 'till nine That was coach George Fiwii's .·JJ descrir:tion of the play of Rich i Swan versus Alfred ,Saturday. ·. · r e becomes the first repeater as I player-of-the-week, and does so 1 \ deservingly. He pulled in 14 '' J <~ passes for 142 yards, returned ( almost eYery kickoff and .punt, · · and broke numerous tackles all over the field. Several times he~> · came within one step of break- ing away ~or the score, 'but the Saxon defense was concentrat- ing on stopping just him, with .. ) , Craig Carlson still hobbled. Rich has now caught 44 pass- es for a total of 666 yards and . seven touchdowns, the latter 1 mark beinig a new single game record. He leads the team in scoring, and has returned seven kickoffs. 155 yards for an aver-tJ age of 22.2. ·.i ~To Ray Pik the secon< president · '~ culties ar stepped d< because ·oJ who also ttt 1965, will I . stamm. R( Killian. Scoreboard And Schedule '.this Week's Games Commen ~:J ·· «.. uation, Pil · believe th Football President Saturday: Union vs. Hamilton man to Alexander field 1:30 • 72nd meeting since 1890 ·\- Actmg De Won 29, lost 30, Tied 12 .· her of the last year Hamilton 30, Union 13 Students, Council Pi Bowling 1 f h\ • b Monday: Union vs Albany State at RPI . ) ) 0 lS JO RPI Student Union . \' dent ShOU] for such ~ to sacrific energy. Cross-Country Monday: ICAA Champion;hlps at NYC Last Week's Results Football Alfred 14. Union 0 Rugby Albany Med 13, Union 5 Other Football Hamilton 36, St. Lawrence 34 Williams 41, Wesleyan 7 RPI 33, Hobart 24 Lafayette 54, King 1 s Point 7 Pike S Pike, wl of his fres 6 cil membE expressed the counc: remainder it will str' gram and Residence must be rE arts progr1 Commen M Althougl as yet rea the weeke: ker assure of events Iii Fall Week Class of '7 Manker 111 post is litt does mucl in contacti Union's wj the final , Prepara1 Weekend after elec • with Manl of orienta The Fr events wil nets as i1 sponsored Manker end in Ju contract. e inite con1 agent of ~ is known a,nd by l'i Signed. Union d Walker's : an ar:tang« the lsley Ironical! Nov. 14 t perform, l new contr The Fa plicated n Into Syr~ couldn't g bany Airt

