ble contest and this field a came n to the !day. In team s Trinity Jaszczak ry Gross ackle AI ester 11. the came started. but the The Union drove to in the ball and 37 yards. Coach safety drive. Rich, a 30. fourth heir final at Troy. suffered I \A Causa'' Persa Parole Assai\ Concordy ·-· Goes for Humphrey Page 2 Founded at Union .College 1877 .l\j__V_o_L ___ 9_8_N_' o-.-, ...... 1---------------------------SC_H_E,_N_E_C_T_ADY-,-N-. Y-.-, 'N_O_V_E_IVI_B_E_R.:::1-,-,9-6_8 ________________ P_R_I_C_E_T_W_E_N_T_Y_C_E_N_T_S ACC Debates Parietal Guides; Hears Proposal From Rosner I : by Bart Harrington,Jr. In an hour and a half4ollg meeting Wednesday night, The AH-{'ollege Cou ncH unanimously approved President Rusty Man'ker's appointment of Dan Mead as Council Secretary, discussed last year's proposed committee to investigate which governing body is responsible for content of student publications, and deb a ted the implications of adopting the Student Council prDposal to alter parietal hours. .Sanguinary satisfaction is shown by :one of 251 donors in Union's Red Cross Blood Drive. Students and faculty padicipated in the two-day drive, with 26 deferred for health reasons. The award' for greatest group participation will he announced in several weeks. The drive ended yesterday. The proposal, which delegated all responsibility for drawing up and enforcing parietal hours to the individual living units, could ,not be voted on at the Wednesday meeting due to a technicality in the ACC constitution. The ACC can not vote on any motion during the meeting in which it is proposed unless it is declared an emergency issue by two thirds of the Council. After Dick Rosner, Student Council representative to the ACC, presented Panel Expla~ns Conscientious Obiection by Bruce Husten A group of ab()ut 35 students interested in the Selective Service System--primarily how to get around it--met last night in the Hale House lounge with a panel of three interested area men and were told about the methods and possibilities of being classified as Conscientious Objectors. Conscientious Objector's classification, draft board on any matter, one can in other words, rejected it and faces make three appeals: to the local board, possible prison sentencing because of to the state board, and finally to a the dictates of his conscience. \pvesidential board.\ In the question-and-answer period 3) You, the draft resister. should that followed the panelists' talks, the knu\N the draft laws cold; most draft following .information was presented: boards don't. I) The law does not allow for 4-) The best professions today for \selective objection.\ Legally a obtaining draft defefments are conscientious objector must be teaching.and farming. opposed to all war, not one in 5) To change draft boards is particular. His objection, legally, must virtually impossible. The board with have developed from religious training, which you register is the one with not political, philosophical or which you will stay. And draft so~ological beliefs or a personal moral decisions vary radically from one the SC proposal, NelllGordon, student body representative-at-large, immediately requested that the proposal be declared an emergency matter. Issue is Res]' onsibility It was Gordon's reasoning that the issue was one which the faculty and administration had p-reviously decided. He felt that since tl.e College deemed Neal Gordon at last Wednesday's All College Council meeting. the students respt>nsible enough to select their own courses, to reside off-campus, and t0 abide by the existing social rule~, students should therefore be allowed to decide what hours they may welcome guests. Gordon, who has studied the various problems concerning possible alterations of parietal hours, stated The meeting was called by David j . Snider, Union's neVI Coordinator of Religious Activities, who, in , introducing the panelists, said he ) wan ted to learN about the draft so that , he could advise Union .students who have individual draft problems. T'he panelists co11sisted of Union's co :) If turned down by the local board to the next. Election Forum ·Airs Sundry Viewpoints j . William Brist()l of the history department, who w~s a Conscientious Objector during World War !'I; the Rev- Frank Snow, camplls minister at the ·1 'State University of New York .at Albany who is that school's primary adviser on the controversy; and ,Stanley Bennett, a young area draft resister who was visited earlier this week by the FBI and told that his case--which may, he said, result in sentencing of \five years in prison and $10 .000\--will go bEfore the courts in the near future. Prof. Bristol began the session with ~ a factual· ~ntroduction of the alternatives to the draft. On Humphrey~ McCarthy, Nixon, Wallace by Larry Friedman \This shows how many people give a damn about the elections at Union-- the turn-out has its own eloquence,\ ·said Professor Michael Shinagel to the 27 students attending last Tuesday's pG!itical discussion forum. Foreseeing years filled with instability and polarization,. Rundell characterized Spiro T. Agnew as \the biggest catastrophe since 'Warren G. Harding.\ Strongly endorsing the national Republican ticket, Steve Pierce blamed the anti-intellectual mood of intolerance at Union whicf1 precludes any form of intelligent discourse. Cuban Mis:sile Crisis Berk believed. tllat Nixon would retard integration and urban problems. Finally, he queried, \what would Nixon have done in the Cuban missile crisis?\ The final speaker, Professor William Daniels of the political science department, noted. that in George Wallace \we are confronted with a demagogue who poses a major threat.\ ln a campaign ag;ainst the pseudo- inteJlectuals, Easter11 press, and lack of law and order, Daniels said that Wallace is \more ambitious than ideological.\ that he was prepared to answer any questions on the issue. Dean Lichterman raised his objections to Gordon's motion. lie said that he \feels that it needs more study.\ Prof. Charles Olton inquired whether a poll of students had been taken and whether a comparative study of other schools had been made. No such poll or study has been made as yet. Lichterman Counters Gordon pointed out that the three popularly elective positions on the council are filled by representatives who campaigned on platforms including parietal hour change. Lichterman countered by stating that the representatives could have been elected despite their stands on that particular issue. The subsequent ballot resulted in an 8-2 defeat of Gordon's motion. Gordon and Ray Pike, the other student body representative-at-large, cast the two votes in favor. Olton suggested that the ACC establish a student-faculty- . administration committee to investigate the social, moral, and practical implications of the Student Council proposal. Further topics of discussion related to the issue at hand included: Lichterman's reiteration of the College's policy forbidding fornication in College-owned buildings, the possibility of unhealthy situations caused by competition among Union men relating to sexual experiences and the necessity for a faculty poll on the issue. Gordon noted that students were not polled on the issue of comprehensive education, which he felt more directly effected the students than do parietal hours effect the faculty. Lichterman said that there were certain issues wh.ich are best left in the hands of faculty and administration. '\Good Point\ After Gordon drew attention to the existing double standard whereby those students living off-campus are responsible enough to set their own parietal hours on the one hand and while those residing on-campus must abide by the hours set by the College, Lichterman replied, \that's a good point.\ No members have as yet been ap_pointed to the ACC committee to study parietal hour alterations. However, the next ACC meeting has been set for Nov. 20; and if the committee is prepared to present its report at that time, a vote on the SC proposal will be possible. The two legal alternatives, he said, ·are the l-AO status-whereby one is a Conscientious Objector but is willing to do non-combata11t service-- and the 1·0 status whereby one is a 'ROUND ABOUT ) ·Conscientious Objector but is not willing to serve in the Armed Forces in any capacity and instead works under ••guided civilian direction.\ l 'The illegal alternatives are to go to prison (for a maximum of five years under the present system) or to leave .the country. The latter,'Prof. Bristol e nip h a sized, entails risking the possibility of (lrrest and prosecution upon returning to this country. Bennett revealed in his talk that he is a Quaker and was classified 1-0. At the time ·he worked in a capacity that · his draft board considered adequate .to fulfill the \civilian direction\ clause of the classification. But because Bennett condemns any service sanctioned by I the draft, he left the job and informed the draft he would leave any position Which they believed fulfilled their stipulations. Bennett's case, therefore, is one of successful draft evasion hut unsuccessful placation of conscience. man who was granted a Checking notes at the recent election f()rum are student Ed R.undell, and Professor Michael Shinagel, moderator. With Shinagel as moderator, a group of five students and faculty members discussed the merits of the national candidates and the political system. Ed Rundell led off by praising Senator Eugene McCarthy for his efforts in keeping students within politics. He noted that the incidents in Chicago destroyed Hubert Humphrey's rapport with the student; and that an l8 year old with a vote has a better chance of remaining within the political system than he does now. ; !tacking Concordiensis for propagating cliche's, j<Jkes, and innuend'os about Agnew, lle said that in no case had Agnew been proved incompetent. Singing the praises of Hubert Humphrey in what he called \a very partisan speech,\ was Mr. Stephen Berk of the history department. Stressing that Humphrey stood alone for civil rights in 1948, Berk inquired, \Where was Mr. Ni:x:on?\ He attributed \the great issues: Medicare, the Peace Corps, civil rights,\ to the work of the vice president. ALBANY STATE Friday- 9:00 Mixer in ballroom Campus Center Saturday- 7, 9, 11.:00- Movie \A Thousand Clowns\ at State Quad BENNINGTON COLLEGE College evacuated--on vacation RUSSELL SAGE, ltP.I. Saturday - 8:00 Alan King in the FieldHouse Ticket~ at the Door SKIDMORE Saturday- 8:00 <:oncert by the Worcester Polytechnic lnstitll te and the Skidmore College Chorus Sunday- 8:00 Faculty piano. recital by Edmund Hausmann VASSAR Friday - 8:00 Mixer at Jewett Hall Saturday - 8: 30 Square Dance UNION 7, 9 Movie, \One Potato, Two Potato\ Friday - 8:30p.m. Convocation, Memorial Chapel Julliard Quartet Saturday- 12.;00 noon Soccer Union vs. Trinity Daley Field 1:30 p.m. Football Union vs. Williams Alexander Field Sunday - 4:00 p.m. Organ Recital Memorial Chapel Hugh Allen Wilson 7, 9 Film Haps SSOI6 \Pawnbroker\ $.75

Gang Gets Gate In ~The Split\ by Paul Andrews Remember the big game late last fall when the LA Rams beat the Pakcers in the closing minutes? Quite a few prople saw that game; the gate was around a half million dollars. \The Split\ is about six gangsters who teamed up to steal the gate, and about how the money ended up only being split two ways. The movie opened at Proctor's Theater Wednesday. Gladys (Julie Harris) is the lady crook who masterminds and finances the heist. She enlists the services of McLaiH (Jimmy Brown) to round up other ex-cons to help them out. After putting each of them through a little test of their specialties, McLain chooses four experienced thugs: a sharpshooter, (Warren Oates); a driver, (Jack Klugman); a hatchet man, (Ernest Borgnine) and a shady locksmith (James Whitmore). The sterling sextet thus pulls off the stunt in front of 80,000 people at the Coliseum, and McLain takes the loot and guns to his girlfriend's (Diahanfl Carroll) apartment where nobody would think to look. But the landlord decides to raise the rent. And when he walks in to tell the girl, who is primping in front of her mirror, he loses control, assaults her and shoots her in a fit of passion. That complicates matters. The landlord calls in the cops (to put the finger on McLain) and absconds with the money. Then Lt. Brill (Gene Hackman) the detective on the case, confronts the \insane\ landlord, shoots him and absconds with the money. Meanwhile McLain is being worked over for having lost the money. Eventually, though, he gets it back and, after a Big Shootout with his ex-partners, divides the dough with Lt. Brill. There's also a slight twist ending. The movie, another MGM gem, features fledgling stars Brown and Miss Canoll standing out in a motley melange of TV and bit-part movie actors whom you'll recognize. Gordon Flemyng's direction is passable, although the stop-action frame ending the movie is a big cliche today. There are a few brief attractive photograph sequences but most of the football shots are blah. And Brown's acting lacks style, although I wouldn't say that to his face. Mill Carroll's debut in a semi-starring role, however, is applaudable. It's unfortunate that she isn't in the action more and ends up being killed two-thirds of the way through the movie. It is significant that Brown and Miss Carroll, both blacks, play the lead romantic couple. There are even a few subtle-and not so subtle, as in the attempted rape by the white landlord-racial comments. It's too bad the story line is so weak. It might be interesting, however, to compare the movie with\Paper Lion\ (see review in Facsimile), now playing at the State Theater. \Paper Lion\ stars a phony football player and features good football action; \The Split\ stars a real football player and featmes bad football action. Or the film could give six opportunistic Union men some good ideas on how to stick up the big Alexander Field gate during the big Willaims game tomorrow. Half-p••ieP to t!oll()gP Nl11drnt ... ond ftlt-lllfy: tiiP IIPII-sJIIlpt!l• tf1af lll'li.NJIU/If't• pPopl., ··~tltl • •• At last count, we had mot·e than 3,8()0 news- paper editors on our lis.t of subs.cribers to The Christian Science Momtor. Editors from all O\'er the world. There is a good reason why these \pros\ read the Monitor: the Monitor is the world's only daily international newspaper. Unlike local papers, the Monitor focuses exclusively on world news- the important news. . The Monitor selects the news it c0nsiders most significant and reports it, interprets it, analyzes it- in depth. It takes you fu1·ther into the news than any local paper can. If this is the kind of paper you would like to be reading, we will send it to you right away at half the regular price of $26.00 a year- Clip the coupon. Find out why newspaper- men themselves read the Monitor - and why they invariably name it as one of the five best papers in the world. THE CHI\ISTlAN ScrENCE \\''' '·-~·o> .. 0 0 ~ ..... ~.-- •• ,-~,. ··~ .... ~:___ ...... , oA .. --------------------------------, The Christian Science Monitor I 1 Norway Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 1 Please enter a Monitor subscription for the name below.· .I I am enclosing $.. . .(U.S. funds) for the period <:hecked. 0 1 year $13 0 9 mos. $9.75 0 6 mos. $6.50 Name ... ........ ...... .. . .. .. ·······--·················- Street. Apt./Rll1. # -········. City ... . .. . . .. . . ........ .. . .. State ................ Zip .....•......... · 0 College student. Yeat• of graduation. . ...... . 0 Faculty member P•CN-65 L-------------~~--~----~~------~ Harold Martin Presents check to Alvin Price of Better Neighborhoods Incorporated. Unio·n Gives Ten Grand To Better Neighborhoods Union College Tuesday welfare of those whose presented Better Neighborhoods, circumstances ate less favorable Inc., a $10,000 check to be used than their own.\ in BNI's drive for $400,000 in Union's gift pushed the BNI local money to renovate fund total to near the halfway dwellings and provide ownership mark, Alvin J. Price, a member for lower and middle income of the group's board of tenants. directors, said at the check In exchange, Union received a presentation in Dr. Martin's non-interest bearing bond. offic~. . . Dr. Harold C. Martin, Pnce noted that BNl'ls trymg president of the college, in to allow low-in_come fam~ies to making the presentation, noted rent hom7s, w1t~ an ~ptl~m to that \Because Union College is buy. The JI?medtate o~~ectlve of bound by many ties to the grou_p 1s to rehabilitate 250 Schenectady, it recognizes its two-family ho~n:es oyer the_ next respo nsib ilit y when social, five years--st~tmg ~edmtely economic, and political and progressmg _as qUickly as problems arise in the city.\ funds become available. Community Conferences \For the past two years, the college has sponsored a series of community conferences. It has long opened its lectures and concerts to the Schenectady public. More than a hundred Union students work each year in community agencies, and many members of its faculty and administrative staff serve on civic boards and committees.\ Martin said, \In joining other non-profit organizations along with commercial interests in the city to support the Better Neighborhoods program, the college is simply acknowledging in another way its duties of citizenship Home Rehabilitation ••At the same time it takes special pleasure in supporting this program because students at this college, as at others, are deeply interested in programs looking to general human welfare and particularly to the Local Venture He added that the whole venture is local: l0cal banks are underwriting the mortgages, the S chen ectad y In d· us trial Development Council has contributed $1 OO,OtlO, and the remainder of capital is being contributed by many sources such as Union and local churches. BNI is concentrating on two-family houses, Price said, which will give one family an option to buy while the other will be the rentor. Union's gift, he added, wm help 8-10 families to secure better housing. BNI will take into consideration ••sweat equity,\ or an amount toward the purchase deducted for work such as painting or remodeling done by the occupant. Better Neighborhoods, Inc., is almost totally a volunteer operation, Price said, with the exception of a project manager and a social worker. WHY GO HOME THIS CHRISTMAS WHEN YOU CAN GO TO Puerto Rico Nos sau or Miami Student Coalition for Cheaper Travel Call 377-7612 (ask for Glenn) SHAFFER - GRIMM BUILDiNG SUPPLY CO. incorporated Lvmber & Mason Supplies Fixed or Adjustc;~ble bookshelves Available 315 Green Street at Erie Boulevard, Schenectady Near Alco FR 7-2239 We Deliver .. Stop at our show room for help & service, ~EWEST LU~CH 715 Albany Street Specializing: - t40T DOGS WITH P:AMOUS SAUCE - DI~ERS AND SANDWICtiES - TAKE·OU1' ORDERS - Union Student' Favorite Spot - (Serving Sehene~ady Since 1921 I Mon.· Thurs. 7-A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.·Sot. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 .A.M.·l A.M. Pea·ce And freedom Party Expresses Disside·nt .Politics by Randy Sutter \If you always choose the lesser of two evils ;in a political campaign, you wili always have evils to choose from. Some time you will have to choose your own man.\ These were the words of Peter Davidouich, State Organizer for the Peace and Freedom Party as he outlined to an auc:Jiienc,e of 20 the preparations being made to organize a meaningfu.l third party at ihe grass roots level. \We need a 'new politics' in this country that doesn't depend on any figure at the top. We don't want to depend on a knight in shining armor to save us. We realize that no one candidate, no one person, can change 1he .existing conditions. The goals of the Peace and Freedom Party are long range -- to organize the grass root di!l.Sidents.\ Began in California The Peace and Freedom Party began in California more than a year ago. At that time, the 1968 election appeared likely to be a con test between Democr:atic Incumbent Johnson and Republican Richard Nixon. The party founders sought to challenge what they felt to be \representatives of the status quo.\ The Party was able to register lOS ,000 voters in time to be recognized on the California ballot. Since then, the Peace and Freedom Party has spread to thirty states. Nearly 3000 voters are affiliated with the new party inN ew York State. David0vich gave the current emphasis of the Party as a drive \to organize those people who are against the war in Viet Nam and who are for black liberation.\ The party is based on four principle issues: 1) the immediate withdrawal oftroops from VietNam 2) black liberation and freedom from police brutality 3) local control of all public institutions 4) a n.ational party completely independent of the established parties. Panther Ties From the Peace and Freedom Party Platform, it is evident that the Party is connected with the Black Panther movement. The Panthers rose out of the Oakland ghetto ab C)Ut the same time as DIAMANTE'S Enioy Our Fine Hqme Cooked Italian Food in Our · Comfortable Dining Room Opp .. The Brownell Gate o~t NoH Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sunda-ys 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. the Peace and FFeedom Party ' was getting ·organized. The murder trial of Huey Newton, the fmmder of the Panthers ·on the charge of killing a white policeman in a gun battle 1 .· brought the two movements· together. I Davidovitch holds that the ; ·. ties are important. \It points UF, the need fm black organization. Yet it transcends the racist barrier to reach the young whites who are also fighting the-· status quo.\ .. The Peace and Freedom FOUNDE Party, in the words of i · Davidovich, is\really nuts abou . Vdt 1 Nt democracy. We alie obsessed ) with it\ Although the paFty : platform may be r~dical, he said .. I it was democratically worked r. out by party members. ! Cle~ver Booed ''In fact,'' Davidovich admitted, \the Peace and Freedom Party may have been the only party to boo their Presidential candidate. Eldridge 1 Cleaver wanted Jerry Rubin, · leader of the Yippies, for •hls Vice Presidential running mate. and attempted' to use the weight ' of his personality to get him ( . nominated. The party members : overwhelmingly voted him down.\ Frosh Booters ... by STU MOSS Their best game since their first scrimmage and a game that' was not indicative of the play they are capable of. That sums up Union's freshman soccer team's final two contests of the' season. In the first the Garnet trounced H()bart 6-llast Friday, only to lose Tuesday tq_r . undefeated RP.I. 2·1. Thus, the squad finished their schedule 1 · with a highly respectable 4-2-1 ·t recmd. . The final scoring stats for the I season show Richard the team leader with 6 goals and 4 assists.),· Pierre Rom-nain contributed 3 goals and 7 assists, while Fraser had 5 goals. Turret chipped in 2 1 goals and 2 a,ssists, Mullman 2 ·' goals and 1 assist and Clowen l i goal. Coach Robert Benson termed , . this season a \good one.\ He · was particularly impressed with the enthusiasm the team showed, as they were totally interested in soccer. There are several on the squad who could help the varsity. THE PEANUT I ~!~.~~ r PLANTEitS HOT ROASTED l , PEANUTS • and Nutmeats from all over r ttl~ world. 406 STATE ST. Glan AmericaJ do this George\ is one m is COl in COilS) Vice~Pn were eig office Presiden dubious be effec was mo the part than an position Tedd Vice-Pre now pre is tailm , Souther1 Vice-Pn unknow the pub ' to rema] is obvio1 other th T. Agne' The \Terrjfi< Mr.J impeccil he is l;:==========; !;::::=========;-'} pressed, even th against especia JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECJA.L RAT56 FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear CERCONE'S ATLANTIC STATION, FinestGasoline In Schenectady Guaranteed Service 711 HOTT ST. 377-9866 LUIGI'S RESTAURAN'T SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American FGOd 1125 BARRETT ST. Sc:henechdy Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktoil Ber blacks.) wisdom Jackie yummir most v will fre· mutton· Figh· ,. ) Democr which ~ that hi scientifi venerea: pointe Govern• if such • immedi the loar bank hE Mr. me chan even hi the win ·' • with p1 togethe wa.s Mx

•arty Ji·tics :edom Party ' mized. The tey Newton, Panthers ·on ing a white gun battle, · movements·· ds that the ; · 'It points ur,.i . organization. 1 the Facist ·· the young ' fighting the .. d Freedom words of FOUNDED AT UNION COLLEGE IN Vdt 1 No.3 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., NOVEMBER 1,1968 FREE WITH CONCORDIENSIS 'y nuts about 1re obsessed • 1 the party iical, he said , .· ally worked An Interview With Muhame·d ·Ali: ~rs. oed Davidovich' · Peace and y have been ) boo their 1te. Eldridge' ·. The Champ Pulls No :Punches erry Rubin, pies, for 'IDS unning mate •. se the weight , to get him l rty members ,· voted him 1 '1· :rs ... oss e since their l a game that, I. by Paul Andrews Muhamid Ali does not cut as imposing a figure as his boxing record would suggest. Dressed in a blue suit and carrying a brief case, he looks like a business executive who keeps fit by working out weekly at the local \Y.\ He has only one faint facial scar from his boxing past; other than that only his slightly large and powerful hands would distinguish hom from someone you might see every day. of the play ,f. That sums tman soccer mtests of .the' · t the Garnet ·llast Friday, Tuesday tqr ~-1. Thus, the teir schedule 1ectable 4-2-1 Endorsement For ?T.? It's only when Ali assumes a boxing stance and throws a few punch combinations that you realize he could kill you with one punch. Weaving, darting, jabbing with the nervousness and agility of a cat, Ali impresses upon you that you can be hopelessly defenseless - a club, switchblade, or even a pistol would be of no use against Ali at close range. Ali could get off three jabs before you could blink. A free fraternity demonstration outside Phi Sigma Delta left one \opponent\ quaking. Ali doesn't need to explain why he was - and for all practical purposes r~mains - world champion: he can demonstrate in a fraction of a second. by Ray Krise, Jr. Glancing back through American histozy (it's easier to do this if you pretend you're George Wallace), one fmds there ~ stats for the 1 is one major public office which ud the team is conspicuous foJ its in conspicuousness the and 4 assists.'· Vice~Presidency. True, there ontributed 3 , while Fraser were eight years when Ike was in office when it was the chipped in 2 .. 1 1 Presidency itself to which this :, Mullman 2 d b' 1 .c. 11 b . md Clowen 1 ! . u 1ous mante .~e , ut 1t can enson termed od one.\ He' 1pressed with the team were totally ~r. There are 1d who could ANUT IE 1g ROASTED :rs om all over I d. E ST. be effectively argued that this was more wishful thinking on the part of the country rather than anything inherent in the position itself (quick ~ who was Teddy Roosevelt's Vice-President?) Anyway, we are now presented with a man who is tailor-made - mostly from · Southern cotton - for the Vice-Presidency; he was an unknown and, like Eisenhower, the public would prefer for him ' to remain that way. Of course, it is obvious I am speaking of none other than the redundant Spiro T. Agnew. The \T\ does not stand for \Terrjfic.\ . Following the lead of Mr. Agnew's running mate - Richard Nixon - we have deliberately avoided discussing such things as Mr. Agnew's \You see one slum, you've seen 'em all,\ his \Some people aren't mentally capable of thinking in the American mainstreak,\ his plea for the sentencing of a priest who poured blood on draft records, his shady business deals, or his inability to understand what a hippy is. We do, however, feel sorry for his foot, which must be covered with teeth marks by now. What more is there to say? Words fail me. After having read the above, I am sure you will all agree with me when I say: Let's give it to Spiro Agnew! Ali claiins he does not want to return to boxing. It's . probably true. He hangs onto his past glory (\When I said he'd fall in five it wasn't no jive ... Fight Wilt Chamberlain? Timber ... \) but at the same time he is gravely sincere about D r a. It his religion. When approached about the Muslims, Ali assumes a 0 d g e r serious deme~or ~nd an even tone of voice m carefully r a g detailing his beli.'efs. Right now his religion is of utmost ·· · · ·· · importance to him; he would by Alan Cohen take up boxing again (the federal I'm only eighteen, so I can't government will not permit him vote, and in 1972, I may not be to box again, he says) \only for in this country to worry about the money.\ voting, so when they ask me He needs money. Lawyer's who i'd vote for if I could in this fees for his draft evasion trials have left him in debt and have forced him to accept exhausting speaking tours. For his Union engagement he arrived in late afternoon, flew hack to Chicago early the next morning. And he mentioned speaking engagements at several other Eastern colleges. But the strain of the schedule is reduced by the fact that Ali ·enjoys entertaining. He knows how to hold an audience and revels in the limelight, even behind the scenes in a small group. One trick Ali used to gain attention was an old magician's cliche, making two golf balls appear from one by showing both halves of the original ball to the audience: \I can take this down to Georgia and Alabama where people are not too education, they don't figure things out too good, I'll go up to some boys and say 'Hey boy, how many balls?' He say, 'One.' I say, 'How many?' He say, 'Huh? There was only one ... ,!\ Ali the boxer, perfonner, minister and black hero will talk to anyone about anything. Approached constantly with questions - many of them redundant - during his visit, he never outwardly displayed the irritation or impatience he undoubtedly felt within. In a Co ncordiensis · interview he pulled no punches with his responses: On the presidential race: I'm not voting for nobody. I'm a religious minister. We don't vote. I think for black peoples, the one who would hurry up and bring on separation and unite us is George Wallace, because he tells the truth, he lets us know where he stands and where we stand. He's not a hypocrite. On the Black Panthers: Well, they're a few brothers that ... I don't know, I hear they just believe in violence, shooting and killing. That's sure death. You can't fight the makers of the guns with the guns. You all make them and control them and we look like fools shooting you. Unite and separation, not fighting and tearing up the country. On integration: Integration is dead. You can forget about it, it's all over. No blacks want integration anymore. When they killed Martin Luther King they really started something. You haven't seen the face of it yet. King was the last hope for the white people and integration. He really pushed it and tried to keep it going ... when you bumped him off you really gave all the radicals a good platfonn. On the difference between blacks and whites: The heart is different, the feelings are different, the mercy is different. Black people couldn't enslave anybody or kill them. Look at how bad black people as a whole are treated ... and they don't try to get no revenge, they don't ask for blood ... On Blacks and White: We don't hate you, we know you. We just want to leave you. But your government publicizes that we hate because this is right, what we're doing; and when people come to us, whites are going to be in trouble, once we get out of America. Where can we go? Any Muslim country on the planet: Syria, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Pakistan, Ghana, Nigeria. When Elijah and Allah give the word, we're going to be taken out physically and America will be physically destroyed. There's a ship up there with 1500 bombing planes on it, the UFO's. Your government knows about it - ask some white man in your government about the mother ship that's over America. The government sees it, and they can't stop it. God's going to destroy America with earthquakes, tomados, droughts - and the Negroes who integrate are going down with America. You've got 13 years at the most. This is in the Bible, this is prophecy, this isn't just me IE'S rATION. Mr. Agnew comes to us with irnpeccible credentials. Firstly, he is of Greek descent (if pressed, he will admit to this, even though he firmly stands against descent of any sort, especially by students and blacks.) Greece has given us the wisdom of Plato, Aristotle, and Jackie Onassis, and the yumminess of sheep. Even the most vicious of his detractors will freely admit Mr. Agnew is mutton\headed. Presidential race, I quickly respond \Pat Paulsen.\ But when they ask me Who I would like to be the next President, Humphrey or Nixon, so that I might be around to vote in '72, I'm not so quick to answer. I do prefer a Humphrey-Muskie victory to one of Nixon and Agnew, but the issue is greater than pick-and-pray. Garnet: Noisy Revolution fine In ::~dy •ei'vice 377-9866 Dl 6-9744 :ocktoil Bor Fighting staunchly against a Democratic whispering campaign which was spreading the rumor that his name was really the scientific term for a type of venereal disease, Mr. Agnew pointed out that he was Governor of Maryland, and that if such measures were not halted ' immediately, he would call in the loans of certain people at the bank he was a directO'r of. Mr. Agnew has a very mechanical mind {some rakes even hint Richard Nixon holds the wind·up key to it). He points · · • with pride to the time he put together his son's Erector Set. It wa.s Mr. Agnew's first erection. Humphrey has been running a negative campaign: he says one must vote for him because the alternatives are worse. He's running in order to prevent Nixon from winning. But, who is this man? - some kind of messiah chosen by the people to lead them to the Promised Land? No. No. Yes, the Southern vote helped him wallop Gene McCarthy at the Democratic Convention, but the South will probably go solidly for Wallace, anyway. But can he (Continued on page 4) by Steven A. Cole Among the many things that the recently publishedd Garnet has bel}n called, perhaps the word \controversial\ will be the fairest and most useful in discussing the \yearbook\ for the Class of 1968. A yearbook, according to the June 1966 New Merriam-Webster Pocket Dictionary, is a ''school publication recording the history and activities of a graduating class.\ If this is the function of a yearbook, the 1968 Garnet did not fully serve this function. Primarily, the Garnet represents a fantastic piece of artistic commentary on today's society. It attempted to show beauty and ugliness, \right and wrong\ liberalism and conservatism, protest and apathy. The reader of the Garnet is told that a system of values and a sense of responsibility must be instilled in order to foster change, especially in a society where violent revolution is imminent. A picture of true integrity is painted for the reader. We're told that \yesterday's college yearbook\ has disappeared. \No lies. No truth. No longer.\ But it becomes evident as one skims through the yearbook that this commitment of integrity is really false in many instances. For example, what function do the pictures on pages 208 and 166\67 serve? In relationship to the book's theme of integrity, there is no manifest function to the pictures. A latent function? F r i e n d s o f t h e s t a ff? Umm ... In-Group feeling is a \nice thing\ but not at the expense of the Class of '68 and other members of the college community. \Re-evaluation is in order\ is a good phrase, a good operational notion, but not to the extreme. The opinion was that past yearbooks had included too much fraternity beer party and \team·picture\ type shots. Fine. But should one swing completely to the other side? Wouldn't it have been more harmonious to the heterogeneous college community if the pendulum (Continued on page 4) talking ... this is written in the Christian Bible about the separation of the races ~ in Ezekiel and about Annageddon and the war, the holy war and all that ... On Malcdlm X and Elijah Muharned: Malcolm X ain't taught me nothing. He was just one of my friends. He had a lot of friends, he was just another Muslim, he wasn't nobody big. The press played up Malcolm X; the press destroyed Malcolm X. What he said about Elijah Muhamed was all lies ... once Elijah Muhamed sent him away he had no more power with Muslims ... Elijah Muhamed is the real boss. He don't come for interviews, he don't talk with the press, he don't go around to the newspapers showing off - he's a dignified, high class, powerful man. On giving up boxing: I don't up with sports anymore. I'm just allout for preaching and ministering for the Black Muslims. No body's talking about a possible fight ... some people thought they could get me a fight, which I know they can't because Washington is detennined to stop me from · earning a living. I would have fought, but only for financial purposes. I've forgotten all about boxing now ... I could fight tomorrow if I wanted. I could go to a gym, put on my boxing gloves and fight, but I'd be fighting only for the money ... On boxing in general: Boxing is dried up. Not only in America but in the whole world as welL The whole world is against America and what it's done to me. America got into this arid it backfired and they can't get out of it until they let me fight again. As long as I follow Elijah nobody can trap me, challenge me. As long as I read his writings, I'm powerful. The government knows, they can't tackle him, he's divine, God taught this man ... On the suspension of Tommie Smith and John Carlos from the U.S. Olympics team: That don't mean nothing. They had won the medals, it was finished anyway, wasn't it? What was the committee going to do? They (Smith and Carlos) had made their point in protesting ... to bad all of them didn't protest. On going to jail: Washington don't want me in no jail- this is the worst time in the world for them· to put me in jail ... Moslem countries are getting ready to do something if I go to jail. I've got SO million black brothers waiting to help me. On his being a black hero: I'm not doing nothing just to be black hero. If all black folks was against me I'd still be what I am. As long as Elijah Muhamed and Allah are with me I'm all right. I'm not doing nothing just to attract people.

Garnet: (Continued from page 3) swung at a steady pace, perhaps a bit around the middle? Should the staff of the Garnet have completely ignored the fact that there is a Center II at Union? Much more emphasis should be put on the arts at Union. Agreed. But one picture of Prof. Huntley representing Center II isn't exactly \a part of reality.\ The yearbook reflected the feelings, the sensitivity, the commitment of one small group of students at Union. Photographs can be very eloquent in addition to producing a good sense of intellectual arousal. But still there is prose. Sure, there were the interviews, but a message from valedictorian Kent Kraft would have been very interesting and provided a very big function to nostalgic-seeking alumni in ten years. An overall synopsis of the athletic activities from 1964-68 would have been interesting. Yes, you are right. These things are the types of things that would appear in the \traditional yearbook.\ But it belongs when one is concerned with dealing with such a diversified college community as this one. Why not combine the traditional with the \new\? Why not have a commentary on today's society and at the same . ' ~----------------------------------------~--~~----~------------------~----------------~----------~----------------~'· time give the traditional? Yes. A chatt2e is needed. A quiet revo1ution is encouraged. But extremism to equate \a quiet revolution\ is pretty noisy. Tom Paxton After·O'Dwyer Rally: The Folk Si~ger As Activist . ) 20~ A The lyri \Magical I\ be the 1 Stanley Kubrick's : • the Hellm1 up-Roll Tour I'' make Magical waiting They've need Sa 2001 w \a space o is where w see the rr where you Before odyssey b t audience Besides th preparato1 encompas~ The set illustrati01: through ti achieveme progress r developn achieveme Draft Dodger ... by Danny Shocket He looks like a balding grad student. He carries his guitar to the mike and the audience at the O'Dwyer rally settles down to expectant silence. Tom Paxton, folk poet, sings them songs that make them laugh, make them angry, and give them hope. He's calling for a better America, and the audience sits there spellbound, listening. After his performance, he graciously (and I mean graciously) consented to an interview. I began by asking him what he thought of the violent turn in the peace movement. \Look I don't want to sound like a doom cryer. I think there are going to be revolutionary goals that will be obtained. The more people who see what's going on, the more people will help in their way. There are the revolutionaries and there are others who sign petitions to help them. The. Cartoon ... To the Editor: Concerning the cartoon strip , appearing in this issue of Facsimile portraying Union's deny he supported Fuehrer Daley until he saw how politically impratical that was? Can he deny that 80 per cent of the Democrat voters (not party-bosses) voted against the Johnson Administration's policies in primaries in New York, California, Oregon, Indiana, etc. And can he deny he has been an apologist for these policies for the last four years? \But what could he have done?\ you ask. And I ask, \What did he do?\ A few changes here and there over the months might have gotten him my support, but I could never place a vote for him now. Many who feel as I do will vote for him because the alternative appears to be, yes, that's right, Tricky-Dicky and his sidekick, old \foot-in-the-mouth\ Agnew. \Why \Tricky Dicky\ and not \Honest Richard?'' Maybe because he refuses to debate; and maybe because of his stand (????) on Vietnam; but probably because of his beautiful advertisements and slogans and his perfect bodily and facial movements and his $20 million campaign - especially as I think back to 1960. and how he has since kept his name in the news from time to time leading up to this, his last try for glory. I don't trust the man. He says he can work wonders in unifying the country after he giVes \the Democratic party a beating it will never forget.\ I fear that a war protestor will get the same treatment. If I were a blind man drowning in the middle of the Pacific and Richard Nixon said, \Take my hand,\ I might. But I'ro not and I won't. For law and order, look to \One-heart-beat-away\ Agnew. Spiro's one good point is that he recognizes that this is not a free society: \ .. when he was asked if preaching disobedience against unjust laws was not 'in the spirit of Jesus, Mahatma Gandhi, Dr. Martin Luther King and Henry', the Governor replied lamely, 'The people you have mentioned did not operate in a free society.' \ Still, he has said that he would not break a law preventing him from eating at a certain lunch counter or drinking from ·a public fountain. We must restore \rightful authority\ musn't we? This \heartbeat'' issue is quite significant, because look how old L.B.J. got where he is. So how could you think of voting for Nixon? But does Humphrey deserve it? Can Pat Paulsen come from behind? I really would like to be here in '72. Paper Plimpton: He's Just Lion by Danny Shocket George Plimpton makes a living acting out boyhood fantasies. The movie of his most famous escapade, \Paper Lion,\ recounts the tale of his experiences in football-land. In the disguise of a semi-pro football player from the Newfoundland Neufs, Plimpton, well played by Alan Alda, attempts to make the Detroit Lions at quarterback. The movie is a \friendly fictionalization\ of his attempt. The movie starts with Plimpton being convinced to write the six articles he owes Sports Illustrated on the experiences of the rookie at a football training camp. After various inquiries, the Detroit Lions accept him, only after they make sure they can't be sued for injuries. Plimpton arrives at training camp looking like a coy<>te in a cattle herd. The Detroit Lions, played by the Detroit Lions, see through his disguise, and are immediatly antagonistic. At this point the film becomes 10 cuts above every other football movie I've ever seen. These men aren't playing a game. Pro football is a business and the movie doesn't gloss over this fact. These are men earning a precarious living (an excellent locker-room scene shows how the players are scarred men held together by stitches and tape). They can't afford to be injured, while Plimpton has \some thrills.\ However, there is a great deal of overgrown boy in every football player. After spreading Plimpton over the field, they respect his stupidity and nerve. He becomes the butt of pranks, the dream of every defensive player, and a friend. George begins. to believe in himself. He really thinks he could be a quarterback. A victim of his fantasy, it takes an actual g~e to bring him to his senses. The actual pre-season game is something special for every football fan. The direction and camera-work never let us forget that we are watching men getting brutally beaten. Our · empathy with the players is juxtaposed with the coldly analytical recounting by the spotter. He becomes every fan, and his detached manner annoys us until we realize we view games the same way. The players are human; watching a pro game with this in mind is a new, almost disturbing experience. The film is not a documentary about pro football. The direction by Alex March is surprisingly imaginative. His jump-cuts, close-ups, and slow motion shots are imaginatively inteJ.jected into what could have been merely a straight narrative. The acting, except for some embarrassingly bad performances by Vince Lombardi and Frank Gifford that are thankfully short, is excellent, with stand-out performances by Alda, Alex Karras, John Gordi, and Mike Lucci. Lauren Hutton is the girl written into the picture for those who get tired at looking at over-sized male bodies. She fills her part well. All in all, for football fans it's all there: the training camp, the practices, the skull sessions, the anxiety, and the bruises. For anyone else, there is a fine movie, an entertaining comedy-drama. On the same bill, is the re-release \ 'What Did You Do in The War, Daddy' \. It stars James Coburn and Dick Shawn, was directed by Blake Edwards, and has a happy ending. The movies are playing at the State, which has a projectionist whose mother, I'm sure, feels he's competent. \It's good. IT's necessary for the movement to grow.\ Is real revolution possible? \If you mean a violent overthrow of the government, no. They control the arms. A non-violent revolution, with violent aspects, to obtain certain goals is possible.\ Do you see political suppression und~r Nixon? \No Nixon's a smoothie. He won't bother anyone. Wallace is going to gain strength, and there will be suppresion under Wallace.\ ' ' r e vo 1 uti o n ' ' an d i t s protagonists, I would like to - make a brief but important point. (Being a personal friend Do you feel the O'Dwyer rallys are mainly to keep the peace movement together? How do you fe~l about tfle war in Vietnam? He paused, then answered. of both of the writers I know that this view is shared.) The '\ point is this: the sad and pitiful thing is not that there are men, here or anywhere, who, in their , •. attempt to \right wrongs\ or \to create a better world\ appear odd or quixotic, but that the world in which we live '-\ fh demands them. The appalling ' \How would you feel if you were an Englishman in 1775'?\ He then excused himself and the crowd that had gathered dispersed. As I left he was doing a promo for the S.U.N.Y. radio station. fact, to reverse Malraux, is not that we are constantly in the . process of making fragile images which deny our nothingness, but that we are cast into societies and institutions which are\ constantly asserting it. Kenneth A. Kobland '69 \Yes I do. I see the really important election in 1972. I think Wallace will be a lot stronger and Ted Kennedy, ifwe let him live that long, will be the Democratic candidate. I never felt McCarthy had a thirst for power, something not necessarily bad, if he agrees with you.\ The North End '•' What about the argument of the lesser of two evils? East and is a seasoned, versatile. \IT's nonsense. Look the McCarthy kids proved they were good workers; Humpty would love to have them. Humphrey represents everything we've fought against. Work for peace candidates and aid those who are revolutionaries, only thing left.\ John Lippman, peripatetic folk guitarist troubador, will serenade the North End coffeehouse at 8 p.m. tonight in Bronner House, North College. Lippman has appeared in coffeehouses throughout the performer. ' · Do you think student power ... \The students have no power. Most of them are apathetic. Students can have power inside their schools, that's about it.\ Do you see a widespread draft resistance? \No. Not enough students care.\ Do you see any hope for the peace movement? Jim Talbert, coffeehouse manager, said that the Garryowen Irish folk song group will appear Fall Weekend_at the North End. -.- ~~ .. - ... -- ...... - .. -- ...... ---·---- ... -~--·---~ .... -~::_:-. ..._....,· RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE IT AllAN FOODS STEAKS CHOPS, SEAFOODS ' . Catering To Small & Large Parties Pixza & Sandwiches at All Hours Ser'Ving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to Midnight _, DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1519 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE SHIRTS AS YOU LIKE THEM 22C STARCH NO STARCH BUTTONS SEWED ON PANTS •• 49¢ WHY PAY MORE SAVE •• SAVE ·- SAVE j ' ~ . i. ' 'l f F ·'i ~· .. -,..- .. .:.;.,..i ... ·.~ edifices, society. After has re • proficien' environrn space. M his ventu is done; substanti the my inspiratic ~now be strive ~ beyond,: .' One 1 the movi story be life of · creatures what rna specific denomin his ultim The q Kubrick, .. director, to acco11 product many, a1 - The forr cinema reiricarnl his own group· b senseless To gJ

2001: A Space Odyssey A Homer By Kubrick . ' . • .. I bel ,, . ) ... strip , issue of Union's and its like to · important friend I know The v and pitiful are men, in their , · or world\ but that by Bill Shapiro. The lyrics to a Beatles' song, \Magical Myst~ry Tour,\ might be the best description .of Stanley Or. Strangelovf,! Kubrick's 1001, now playing at • the Hellman's theatreere: 'Roll up-Roll up for the Mystery Tour I've got an invitation To make a reservation The Magical Mystery Tour is waiting to take you away They've got everything you need Satisfaction .guarmteed\ 2001 will take you away.lt is \a space odyssey.\ The question is where we are going'? After yo1.1 see the movie, you might ask where you have been? Before the complex space odyssey begins, 2001 sets the C' audience up for the venture. Besides this \trip there is a preparatory sequence, which encompasses most of the f'llm. The setting of the scene is an illustration of man's progress through time, and his fantastic achievements to date. Man's progress refers to his psychical development; whereas hls achievements are the roads, '· .~ . .· we live .... fh appalling is not 1 . tly in the, images ngness, but societies are \ '69 d, versatile . that the song group the . edifices, and material parts of society. After the scene is set, man has reached a level of ,. • proficiency in dealing with his environment and even with space. Man's next movement is his venture. Now his dirty work is done; his needs are met to a substantial degree. The clouds, !he . mrstical infinity, spirit, msprratwn, the untouched, must j ~ now be investigated. Man must · strive for what lies ahead, beyond, and through. . • One must get involved with the movie and realize that as the story begins in illustrating the life of apes, these primitive · creatures represent man's origin, what man, in part, is today, and specifically, what common denominator will follow man to his ultimate type of existence. The question of what Stanley Kubrick, the co-screenwriter, .. director, and producer, intended to accomplish by his mammoth production is discussed by many, and dismissed by others. · The former group believe 2001 a cinematic experience, man reincarnated, man searching for his own identity, while the latter group ·believe the ftlm to be senseless, \wierdo psychedelic. To give you an idea of how J ft e~tensive the· production was, env~on a model of the moon's landscape 30 by 30: feet. The spactl station had a diameter of 600 feet. Wlu;;n the $Cript called for \interior\ shots Clf the spac~ship, ''Discovery,\ Kubl.'ick arranged to have buUt a 3~ ton wheel, 42 feet in diameter. The wheel was uSe4 as a'prop. Jt had to actually spin, at two revolutions per minute. Many of the shots taken inside the ~'Discovert' were done by remote control. Minneapoli$ Honeywell and IBM staff men helped in advising the pl.'0.duction of tbe g~dgetry. Physicians were consulted on the consequen~e$ of hibernation. O.ne coqld _go . on eKFiainfng more of the. technicl!l processes · which Kubrick demanded and had to overcome, hut the criterion of the success of the film's message lay in the technical proficiency. What made the movie so fantastic was that K~brick relied upon the technical equipment, only, to convey the message of 2001. The movie need not be seen in cinerama to feel the space '.• • 0 ·· . ._. ship moving into the heavens, reaching out for its home away from home: the space station. I shall not reveal any surprises about what one will experience in seeing 2001 at Hellman's Theatre. The movie began with the \Dawn of Man\. Man's beginning, in 2001. was with man-apes. Their prime occupation was with finding food. Kubrick directs this sequence humorously and with insight. He suggests the relevance of pre-historic man to modem man's greed, his desire to beat the other guy, man's recognition of a leader, his fear of the unknown, and man's adaptation to what is missing in living. The point of realization, as one man·ape touches a large monolity is quite obvious. The rectangular \thing\ lies embedded in the earth.. It is black, smooth, and immovable. The monolith is, to the ape, an experience of illumination, as he touches this strange rock. The monolith might be considered man's destiny···and his potential. From age to age, man develops through a process of just \finding new ways\. The \ways\ are not specified, nor relevant. But the stream of discovery is important, relevant, and :indicated by the fJlm. As the film moves throush time toward 2001, man lias fo u n d n e w w a y s of discovering·-thr()ugh Ume, through light and sound, hut especially through the mind. The ··n~w ways\ might assuredly be that of a new way to live, to travel, or a new way to think. But the juxtaposition of space to rnaJl :indicates that ••new ways\ has a metaphysical slant, rather than a practical one. In speaking wi tb. Professor Calabria, he state d that I' the mm reverberates down and up the. corridor of time, grounding us to a brutish .ancestor,' while projecting us to a state of being, evolving, not yet fully born. To make this cosmic journey, which is at its root a personal adventure, Wt: must study the starry heavens a,nd perform the Copernican revolution on ourselves.\ A Fearful Prediction The f:U.m takes us to 1994. To one's surprise, the monolith has been discovered on the moon. Evidently th,is object moves around! The United States has discovered the monolith and has formed a space station on the moon. Mter a number of events which are open to interpretation, the film moves to a new time in the history of man. Unusual though, this new time is less than a year later than the previous voyage to the moon. Now, th.e eKcursion is to Jupiter. What has happened in the interim of man·ape to moon-station to Jupiter-journey--and after 2001? The ques•ions of man's destiny are asked. Find the monolith, and you will move beyond 2001. by Steve Pierce Political prognastication in any presidential election year is apt tQ be, at the very least, e~tremely hazardous. But in this, the year ·of surprise after SUJ::Prise, it is even more risky than usuaL The Wallace phenomenon, the lack of real enthusiasm for either of the two major candidates and the possibility of last-minute events which could change the political picture overnight serve to make predicting the results most di fHcul t. Nevertheless, one cannot re$ist the temptation to hazard a guess as to who will be in the winner's circle come November6. Kick me if I'm wrong but here's the way I see things sb.aping up: Nixon will win but his margin will leave him far short of the ••mandate\ he has recently been asking for. Hubert Humphrey will make a credible showing by winning back much of the labor vote that has, up to now, been flirting with George Wallace. This, coupled with a large Negro and bit-city vote will give 'him several large states in the Northeast (New York, Massachusetts, Michigan, and, perhaps, Pennsylvania). In the other large states the Democratic nominee will also come on strong but not strong enough and Nixon will take California, Ohio, Illinois and New Jersey. The Wall ace vote, that all-important factor, will recede a great deal when it comes time for the actual ballots to be cast. In the North the beneficiary will The Country Suit With Urban Manners Their oversiz;ed plaids do not shout. Their colorings are rich, deep and subtle. The tailoring-Deansgate's own flawless soft shoulder construction. All good reasons why a Deansgate Country Suit can be worn in town or country. In vat·ied-colored plaids andover-plaids. About $11().00 Dean.sgate® Doll's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UNION STREET be Hubert Humphrey but the same trend will tip the balances for Richard Nixon .in several Southern and Border states (Virginia, Ncnth Carolina, Tennessee, Florida, Texas for example.) This, together with almost solid support in the West and Midwest, should give Mr. Nixon a fairly substantial majority in the Electoral College. 'the popular vote is very hard to predict but my guess (repeat: guess) would be: Nixon, 45%; Humphrey, 41%; and Wallace, 14%. I think I can hear the limb I'm on beginning to give so I will hastily conclude with the disclaimer that the opinions expressed herein are those of an amatuer and any resemblance to the facts on November 6 is purely coincidental. All Of LBJ's H'orses ... by Lance Falducciwitz Once upon a time, there lived a man named James MacGregor Burns. He spent his time going to colleges and civic groups and telling them to work for Humpty Dumpty for President. Mr. Burns thinks Humpty Dumpty is, or was, a great man. Mr. Burns says we should forget ·about VietNam in this election. Mr. Burns says this to a college audience of draft age. Mr. Burns is not of draft age. It is easier for Mr. Burns to forget. .. about his audience. Don't you wish you could forget? Has Mr. Burns dropped out? Mr. Burns says Humpty Dumpty is a politician. Don't you wish you had a way with words? Humpty Dumpty had an obligation and loyalty to Old King Kong. Humpty Dumpty is loyal. Even if he felt that the king was wrong, he was loyal. Was Eichmann loyal? If we elect Humpty, he can be on his own. That's more than we did for Eichmann. M r _ Bums says Humpty Dumpty is the lesser of two evils. Isn't that saying something about our Democratic system? Nobody is worse than Tricky Dicky. We c n not let the country fall into Tricky Dicky's hands. All those Democrats would be out of jobs. Look where .our country is today. Don't we owe the Democrats something (wash your ·mouth out with soap and continue). We must reform the Democratic party says Mr. Burns. We can only do this by keeping the unresponsive (trans. corrupt) leaders in power. ?????? Mr. Burns says Humpty Dumpty will rid the country of men like the Black Knight of Chicago. Not directly, of course. Of course, Humpty will talk to all the liberal Democrats not indebted to the Black Knight. A 500 dollar reward will be given to any person with any information leading to the whereabouts of any such person. Mr. Burns says we must have a strong Democratic party. That's for the idealists. We must become party men. Being a party man has good points. Cops don't beat you up. Mr. Burns says Spiro Agnew is very bad. He says Edmund Muskie will make a fine President. Does he know something we don't know? \Humpty Dumpty sat on the wall. Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. All the King's horses and all the Kings men Couldn't put Humpty together again.\ Maybe if we all pushed together ... STUDENTS ENDORSE NIXON We1 tile undersigned, believe that Richard Nixon is the most qtJal ifi ed candidate for President. He has the necessary qua\lifications and integrity to lead our nation for the next four years .. Therefore, we strongly urge h i\s election on November 5. Richard Tito Davie! Magee Clint Cave John Pendleton Jack Wheeler George Hemstead Kim Morton Jack Friers Thomas Hough Jeffrey Glidden David Ruhland Brian Haviland Steven Pierce H. Reicl Schwenk Mark Curry Anthony Carpi nell o Bill Fishbein Richard Thukens Gary Greenli se Benjamin Franklin William Boehmke, Jr. John Prochera Jim Rainey Ken Schroeder Robert Harrington Richard Reid Keith Jamba Chip Geer John Daly Thomas Huppuch Jack Conly Andrew Lask Chet Hart, Jr • William Bush Roderic Greene Gordon Decker Craig Robertson Richard Fiedler William Sponsler Theodore Blakeslee Ill Bruce Lederer John Valentine Nei I Stenge·l Dennis Creighton Bob Coombs Bob Hood Richard Clack Ainslie Wagner Steve Pawlowski Richard Bogu~ c

THE STUDEN·T AS NIGGER by Jerry Farber STUDENTS are niggers. When you get that s~raight, our schools begin to make sense. It's more important, though, to understand why they're niggers If we follow that question seriously enough, it will lead us past the zone of 1lcademic bullshlt, where de- ~Hcated teachers pass their know- ledge on to a new generation, and into the nitty-gritty ofhuman needs and hang-ups. And from there we can go on to consider whether it might ever by possible for students to come up from slavery. First let's see what's hap- pening now. Let's look atthe role students play in what we like to call education. At Cal State L A., where I tea-::h, the students haveseparate and unequal dining facilities. If I take them into the faculty dining room, my colleagues get un- comfortable, as though there were a bad smell. If I eat in the student cafeteria, I become known as the educational eq·Ji valent of a nigger lover. In at least one building there are even rest rQ<Jms which studepts may not use. At Cal state, also, there is an unwritten law barring stu- dent - faculty lovemaking. For- tunately, this anti- mis~~~:ena­ tlon law, like its :SOuthern coun- terpart, is not 100 percent ef- fective, students at Cal state are poli- tically dlsenfrru.,!hised. They au 1n an academic Lowncies county. Most of them can vote in national elections - their average age is about 26 - but they .have no voice 1n the dectslonswhich affect their academic llves. Thestudentsare, 1t is true, allowed to have a toy goverrunent of their own. It is a government run for the most part by Uncle Toms and con- cerned principally with trivia. The faculty a,nd administrators <\ecide .what eoitrses will be of- fered; the studen~s ·get to choose their own Homecoming Queen. Occasionally, when student l~aders get ':IPPlty and ~bellious, theY're either ignored, put ofi wlth trivial concessions, or man- euvPred e:xpertly out of position. . Smiles & Shuffles A student at cal state is expec- ted to know his place. He calls a faculty member •Sir\ or \Doc- tor• or \Professor\ - and he smiles and shutnes some as he stands outside the profe~sor' s 4>ttlce waiting for per mission to enter. The faculty tell him what courses to take (in my depart- ment, EagJ.tsh, even electives have to b~ approved by a faculty nber); they tell him what to • ·cld, what to write, and, fre- quently, where to set the margins on his typewriter. They tell idm what's true and what isn't. Some teachers insist that they encour- age dissen~ but they're almost always jiving and every student knows it. Tell the man what he wants to hear or hP.'ll fail your a:>s out of the co~rs~. When a teacher says •jump,\ students jump. l know of one pr<>fessor ·who refused to take up class time for exams and required students to show up for tests at 6:30 in the morning. And they did, by God! Another, at exam time, provid•?s answer cards to be fllled out - each one enclosed in a paper bag with a hole cut in the top to see throu~h. stud•mts stick their writing hands ln the bags while taking the test. The teacher isn't a provo; I wish he were. He does it to prevent cheating. Another co!league once caught a .>tudent reading during oneofhislectures and threw her book against the wall. Still another lectures his st~!lents into a stupor and then screams a~ them in a rage when they fall asleep. Just last week, during the first meeting of a class, one girl got up to leave after about ten min- utes had gone by. The teacher rushed over, grabbed her by the arm, saying \This class is NOT dismissed!w and led her back to her seat. On the same day another teacher began by informing his class that hedoesnotlike beards, ,mustaches, long hair on boys, · or caprJ.. pants on girl's, and will · nc..t tolerate any of that in his class. The· class, incidentally, · consisted mostly of high . school teachers. F()llow Orders They mtsreatJ simple questions. a more speciftc fear - fear of Even more discoura.gl.ng than They spend tb.elrnightsmecbani• tiJ.e students tbem:;elves After this Auscllwltz approach to edu- Cally outlblmg b1$tery chapters .. n · 1. • .1 nt cUf'# t j \\' cation is the factthatthestudents wblle mettc1Jlously tailing to ~, ~~ ... ~.~e. s are ... erem • Up~ take •t. The·•haven't gone through L-- . d o1 _., tn lU:e black P<M>Ple, You stand ex- ~ ..r compre.._... a wor w-· s . pOsed Ill fro~t of them 1 knowing twelve years ol public school for froot of them. ~at tbeir interests, their values nothing They' ve learned one l.XId tbe!r la.ngua.ge !Ire different 'thing ~d perhaps only one thing from YOIJrs To make rnatte;rs during those twelve years,.---------_.....,_,.,,.. They've fcn·gotten their algebra. \None are more hopelessly wors~. -you may suspeet th,at you They're hopelessly vague about enslaved than those who yourSElf are not tbe most chemtstr:r and physics. They've falsely believe they are engaging ot pers()lls. Wllat then grown to feat\ and resent litera- free.\ - Goethe. can P:':'otect yo-a froxn ~hlltr rldt .. ture. They write like they've ewe &.\td scorn? Respect for been lobotomized. But, Jesus, Altt:hority. That's what. It's the can they foll<>w orders! Freshu Inward Anger POli-ceman's gun agatn. Thewl.tte m~n come llP to me wtth an essay bwaaa• s PiUl !l.elmet. So y()unaul\t and ask if I want it folded and The saddest cases among both tllat authority. You wttber w&h•- whetber their name should be in black slaves and student slaves perers with a mur4erous glanee. the upper right hand· corner. And are the ones who have so tho- Yo1.1 erusr. objectors With erudl- 1 want to cry and kiss them and roughly introjected their rna.!!- tlon and 'lleavy Irony. And, worst caress their poor tortured heads. ters' values tl)attheir anger ls all Of all, fOil make your own attain~ Students don't ask that orders turned inward. At Cal $late these ments seem not acces$lble but make sense. They give up expec- are the kidS for whom every low a·Nesomely remo!e. You conceal tlng things to make sense long grade ts torture, who stammer your masstv~ ignorance - qd before they leave elementary and shake when they sP.ea.lt to a parade a slend~r learning. school. Tbl.Jlgs are true because professor, wllo go thr()!lgh an the teacher says they're true. emotlooal crtsts every t1m.e White Supremacy At a very early age we all learn theY\re called upon during class. TI1e teacher's fear is mixed to accept •two truths,\ as did You can recognize them easily wltll an \lllderstandabte need to certatn medieval churchmen. at f1nals time. Their faces are be admixed and to feel superior, outside of class, things ~;~.re true !~stooned with fresh pimples; a :.teed 1\'l~!:::h a1so makes bim to your tongue, you~ fingers, _your thetr bowels boll audibly across cling to 111$ \'white supremacy .n stomach, your heart. Inside the room. If there really is a Ideally, a teacher should mtnim~ class, things are true by reason Last Judgememt, then the parents tze the dlstan~e between ll!mself of authority. And that's just fine and teachers who created these and his students. He should en- because YCl\1 don't care anyway. wrecks are gOing to burn in hell. courage them not to need him - Miss Wiedemeyer tells you a So students are niggers. It's eventually or even lmmed·tately. noun ls a person, place o: thing. time to find oot why, and to do ·But this is rarely the case. so let it be. You don't give a thi~, we have to take a long Teachers make tbemselves high rat's ass; she doesn't give a look at Mr. Charlie. p:.·iests o~ a!\ca.ne mysteries. The teache .. s 'I know be.st ~.r\\ Tli'Y becom\ mastersofm11m\~ rat's ass. ' \'-- ~ £ ·• · ........ college professors. Outside the jumbo. Even a more or less con~ The important thing is to please classroom and 'taken as a group, scientious teacher may be torn her. Back ln kindergarten, you their most striking chiracteris- between the d:!sire to give a11d found out that teachers only love tic Is timtdtty. They• re snort on the d·~sire to hold them in bondage children who stand in nice balls to him. I .cap fiXJd no other expla.- straig!lt lines. And that's where Just look a~. their workin.gcon- ti n that a\coun·ts for tb> way it's been at ever since. Nothing na 0 ·- · \' · changes except to get worse. ditions. At a tlmf.- when even my own subject,· literature, ts School becornes more and ;nore migrant workers have begun to generally taught. Literature, fight and win, college Pl'Ofessors ht h ht to be a so•llrce o• obviously a prison. Last year I w c oug · ' spoke to a student assembly at are still arratd to make more joy, solace and enlightenment, ·Manual Arts High School and than a token effort to improve often becomes in the classroom then couldn't get out of the god- their pitiful economic sta':us. In nothing more ~han a so1J rce o~ damn school. I mean there was California state colleges the amciety - at best an arena for NO WAY OU\T. Locked doors. faculties are 'screw·ed regularly expertise 1 a :ooger book for the Hlgh fences. One of the inmates and vigorously by the Governor ego. Literature teachers, often was trying to make it over a and Legislature and yet they stUl afra!d to join a real union, non~­ fence when he saw me coming won't offer any solid resistance theless m.ay practice the worst ane1 froze In panic. For a moment, They lie nat on their stomachs kind of trade-unionism in the I expected sirens, a rat.tle 9 f nith their pants down, mumbling classroom; the-y do to literature catch phrases like «professional what Beckmesser does to song in bullets, and him Clawing the d t Wagner• s \Meistersinlfer. • The fence. ignl y• and \meaningflll dia- Then there's the infamous logue.• avowe<l p11rpose of English de- Professors were no different t t ·1 t t h lit rature \code o! dress.\ In some htgh par men s s o eac e ; when I was an undergraduate a.t t •t tb. i r al fUnction is to schools, if your skirt looks too oo o. en e r e short, you. bave to kneel before UCLA during the McCarthy era;. kiU tt . the principa.l,. in a brief aller:rnry it was like a cattle stampede, .. ~ as the-y rushed to cop out. Anct; Finally, there's the darkest ·reason of all for the master- slave appr<lach to education. The less trained and the less social .. ized a person Is, the more he constitlJtes a sexual threat and the more he will be subjugated by institutions, ,such as peniten- tiaries and schools. Many of us are aware by ·now o! the sexual neurosis vrbich makes white man so fearful of llltegrated schools and neighborhoods, and whtch makes the castration of Negroes a deeply emtrenched Southern of fellatio. If the hem doesn't in more recent years, I fo\lnd' reach the tloor, you go home to that my being arrested in slt.;.ms: change wblle he, presumably, brought from my colleagues not· jacks off. · Boys in high school so much approval or condemna .. · can't be too sloppy and they can't tlon as open-mouthed astonish- even be too sharp. You'd thtnk ment. \You could lose your job!\ the school board would be Now, of cC>urse, there• s the delighted to see all the spades Vietnamese war. It gets some trooping to.schoolinpointy shoes, opposition :from a few teachers. suits, ties and stingy brims. Uh- Some suppor~ it. But a va,,tn;un- uh. They're too visible. ber of professors, who know per~ What scl!ool amounts to, then, :fectly well what's happening, are for white and black kids alike, is capping out aga!.n. And 1n the high a 12-year course in how to be schools, y,ou can forget it, Still- slaves, What else could explain ness reigns. what I see in a freshma!l class? · folkway. VIe should recognize a simUar pattern in education, There is a kl11d of castration that goes 011in schools. It begins, Thev' ve got that slave mentality: obliging a.nd ingratiating on the surface bUt hostile and resistent underneath. A:; c;lo black slaves, students vary in their awareness of wh.at• s going on. Some recognize their own put-on for wha' it is a.!ld even let their rebellion brea'< through to the svrface now and then. Others - lncludins most of the \'good students\ -, h;1v\ bPen mort- deeply braim~ ... stwd They swallow the bullshit with greedy mouths. They honest-to-God be- lieve in grades, in busy work, In General Education require- ments. Tlley're patheticatly eager to be pushed around. They're like those old grey- headed h()use · niggers you can still !inti ill the South who don't see what au the fuss ts about because MT. Charlie •treats us real good.\ College entrance requirements tend ~o favor the Toms and screen out the rebels. Not entirely, of course. Some stuclents at Cal state L. A. are expert con artists who know perfectly well what's happening. 'I'hey want the degree· or the 2-S and spend their years on the old plantation alternately laughing arad cursing as they play the game. 11 tlleir egos are strong enough, they cheat a lot. And, of course, even the Toms are angry down deep somewhere. But it comes out :In passive rather tlum active· aggression. They're un- explalnably thick-witted and sllb- ject to freQ.IJent spells of laziness. Forces A Split rm not s.ure why tea.-:hers are .before scilool years, with so cbickenshit. It could be that parents' 11.rst encroachments on academic training itself forces a th~ chlldreo' s free nnullamed split between thought and action. sezuallty and continUes right up It might also b€ that the tenured to the dar when they hand you security of a teacbin~ job attracts your docbral diploma With a timid persons and, furthermore, bleedlDg, shriveled pair of testi- that teaching, like police. work, pulls in persons who are unsure cles staple<! to the parchment. or themselves and need weapons It's nDt that sexualtty has no and the other external trappblgs place In the classroom. You'll of authority. find 1t there but a;tlY in certain At any rate teachers .ARE short ~erverted and vitiated forms. on balls. And, as Juliy Eisenstein Bleeding Brains has eloquently pomted out, the - classroom of!ers an artlf!clal How? does sex show ~P in and protected environment 1n school. First of all, there s the which they can exerclse their sado-masochistic relationship will to power. Your neighbors !>etw!*n teachers and students. may drive a better car; gas That s PleDty sexual, although station attendants may intimidate the price of enj~ylng it is to be you· your wife maydominateyou· unaware or what s happening. In the ' state Legislature may shit walks the student in his Ivy on you; but In the classroom, b~: League equivalent ot a motor- God, students do what you say- cycle Jacket. In walks the teacher or else. The grade is a hell of a - a ldnd of intellectual. rough weapon. It may not rest on your trade - a.nd fiogs his students hip potent and rigid like a cop's with grades, tests, sarcasm and r;w:, but ln the long· run it's snotty superiority until their very more powerfuL At your personal brain~ are bleeding. In. Swin- whim - any time you choose- burne 5 England, the Whipped you can keep 35 students up for school boy frequently grew up to nights and have the pleasure of be a nagellant Wfth us the per- seeing them walk into the class- version is intellectual but lt's nc room pasty-f.a.ced and red-~yed less perve•se .. . Sex also shows up in the class- carrying a sheaf of typewritten room as a!:a·J~mic subject matter pages, wlth title page, MLAfoot- •. sanittzP.d and abstracted, tho- ~~es and ma:-gtns set at 15 a;Jd roughly divorced from feeling, The general timidity which You get usex education• now !.I! causes teachers to make n!ggers both higb school and college of their students usuaUylneludes classes: everyone determined not to be embarasstl(l, to be very up to date, very contempo. Tllese are tbe classes for which sex, as ·Fetffe:r pub it, •can bP. a beau~i- ful thing tf pruperl:y admini- stered.\ And then, oi cQurse, there's stHl another depressing manifestation of sex tn the class· r<>om: the uo!f.colo::• tea•~her, who keeps his class awake with sniggering sex~l allu$.ions, ob- scene Utters and a·~ademic in- nuendo. The se;stJaUty he pur·· veys, it must be admitted, is 11-t least better than none at au. W!;.\it' s missing, from kinder- garten to ~raduate school, is hont~St recognition o~ what• s a~­ tuaUy happantng - turned-on awareness of ha.lry goodies un~ derneath the p·.;ttl~pa;lts, the cl1lnos an1 tne fla:tnels. It's not that sex needs to be pushed ln school: sex is pushed enouglt. But we shoald let It be, ~here it is and Uke It ls. I dOJft insist that ladies in Junior ~gh school lovingly caress their students• cocks (som£:day, maybe); how- ever, it is reasonable to ask that the ladles don't, by example and stricture, teach their stucients to pretend that those . cocks u·pn' t there, As thinga 'etal¥1 now, students ~e physically castratec:t or spayed - and for the very same reason that black men are ca.st1·ated in Georgia: beca1,1se they're a threat. Once A Nigger So you can add sexual repres- sion to the Ust of causes, along with vanity, fear and wm 'to power, that turn the teacher into Mr. Charlie. You might also want to keep !n mind that he was a nigger once ll.tmself and has never really .gotten over it. And <:here ar ~ more causes, some of which are better described in sociological than in psychologi- cal terms. Work them out, it's no~ hard. But in the meantime what we've got on our hands is a whole lot of n!ggers. And what makes this particularly grim is that the student has less chance than tile black man of getting out o! his bag. Be- cause the student doesn't even know he's in it. That, more or less, is what's happening in higher education. And the re- sults are staggering. For one thing damn Uttle edu· cation ta.kes place In the schools. How cou14 it? You can•t educate slaves; you can only train them. Or, to use an even uglier a.-,d more timely word, you can only program them. Dance Or Dunce I like t'J folk danc.e. Like other novices, I've gone to the Inter- section or to the M1i.,;;eum a.1d latd out good m'Jney in order to learn how to dance. No grades, no prerequisites, no sepa.ral:e dining rooms; they just turn you on to dancing. That's education. Now look at what happens in college. A friend of mine, Mtlt, recently finished a folk dance class. For his final he had to learn things like this: \The Irish are known for their wit and imagination, qualities reflected in their dll.llces, waich lncluda th~ jig, the reel and the horn- pipe.10 And then the teacher graded .hiin, >\., B, C, D, or F, wlille he danced in fro~t of her. That's not education. That's not even tra1ning. That's l!Il abomina- tion on tl).e tace of the earth. rt' s espec1ally ironic because Milt took tLat dance class trying to get out of the academic rut. He took . crafts !or tt.e same reason. Great, right? Get you:.· hands in some clay? Make some- thing? 'fhHn th•: tear.b.er an- nounced t.hat a 20-pa.ge term paper would be required - with footnotes. At my school we even grade peop1e on how th·::!Y read poetry. That• s like gra:il ug people on how they tuck. But we do it . In fact, God help me, I do it. I'm the Adolph Eiehma.n 1 o~ English 323. Simon Legree on ttte_ poetry plantation. \Tote that lamb! Lift that spondee!\ Even to discuss & good poem in that envt.ro::unt~nt is ootPntiall v da.D,.. gerous because the very ~lass­ rol)m is contaminated. As hard as I ma:; try to turn stud·::~nts on to poetry, I kn:>w that the desks, the tests, the IBM cards, their O'Nn attitudes toward sehoo!, and my own residue of UCLA mtlthod tre turning them off. Another result of student ;lavery is ~ually serious. stl.l• cttmts don't get emancipatedwhen they. graduate. As a matter of fact, we don't let tbem gradua~e until th..o~y• ve ·rlemonstra..ted their'' wUU,ngness - over 16 years - to relllaln slaves And ror im~ P-:>rtant jobs,. like teaching, we rna~!!' thf!m go through more years, just to make sure. What I'm getting at· is tha! we~ re- aU mo::e or le.ss nlggers .and slaves, teachers and students alike; This ' is a tact you want to start With in trytng to -anderstand Wider social phenomena, say, politics, lo oQr coantry ud ln other coun· ' ·tries. Intimidate Or KiD Educa:ttonal oppressl.on is trickier .to fight than racial op- p:e-sslon li you're a black rebel,. th•?Y \:an't exile you; they either have to illtimidate you or kill you. But in high schoal or college, they can iust bOu:tce Y0U o•Jt of 'th? fold An:i ~h•3Y do. H<•bst. students and renegade faculty m~mbers get smothered or shot down with devastating. accuracy. In high school, it's usually the student who gets it; in college, it's more often the teacher. Others get tired offlgllt- .. ing and voluntarily leave the sys- tem 'fllls rnay ba a mistake tho.xgh. Dr~Jpt;l nt out o~ college. for a rebel, is a little like gotng North. for a Negro. You can•t really get a way from it so you rM«bt as w~ll stay and raise h~11 ~. How do yo•.1 raise hell? That's a w~to~e other article. But just for a start, why not stay with the analogy? W!lat have black people done? They have, ttrst of ;tU, faced the tact of their slav- ery. They've stopped kidding themselves al>out ~ eventual reward ln that Great Watermelon Patch in the sky. They've organ- ized; they've decided to 6o:Jt free- dom now, and they've started taking tt. students, like black people, have Hnrnense unused power. T~ey could, theoretically, Insist on participating in tbeir own education. They could ma'<e aca- demic freedom bilateral. They .. ~ could teacb their teachers to thrive Oil )ove and adm1ration, rather than fear and respect, and to lay down their weapons. S!udents could discover eomrnu~ nfty. And :hey co!!ld ea.,.n toda•lce by dancing oa. the IBM cards. They could make coloring books ·\' 0 1 Jl o.~ the catalogs and they could out bhe grading system 1n a museum, They could raze one set of walls a.nd let life come blowing into tile classrO:)tll. 'l'hey could raze another set of walls and let education flow out and flood the streets. Tiley could_ turn the classroom into where it's .1t - a «field o! actionw as Petet· Marin describes it. And, believe It or not, they could study eagerly and learn prodigiollsly for the best or au possible rea- sons - tb9lr <lWII reasons. They could. Theoretically. They have the power. But only in a very few places, like Berkeley, have they even begun to think about using it. For students, as for black people, the hardest battle isn't with Mr. Charlie. It's with what Mr. Charlie bas done to your mind. In response to a rapidly decreasing number of requests, Conconliensis is exuberant in its announcement of the First Annual Facsimile Poetry Contest. Prizes will be awarded (S 15 for !rrst. $7 for second and 25 cents each for the next 12.) Entries may be of any strain of the bard's art and all entries from haiku to villanelle to doggerei to epic to nursery rhyme to fortune cookie versification will be considered. The contest is open to all members of the College community, their friends, relatives and pets. All masterpieces may be handed to any member of the Facsimile staff or placed in the Concordy maD.box, Student Activity Office. Of the entries thus far submitted the judges are bavmg great trouble distinguishing between fortune cookie versification and haikll that inadvertantly exceed the proper 17 syllables. We therefore request that all poems submitted be labeled under the category intended by the author. Published iJIII th• s Body <J! U N.Y. Nat aent·at·lve: Adverti\sil Publisher Lexingtor D. Peter I Jeffrey C Richard! William C Allen GaJ Paul And Leonard: Paul Fan Alan Klei Richard 1 Henry Fe Peter Wei Alan Coh Michael~ Jon Bru.s1 Carl Gol~ LanyRo Jerry Le~ Jerry Bill UoydBu News- Golden,: Randy St Features Shapiro. This· satisfact: Choice ' ran awa) Abou Alinsky world a support< presiden foolhard Hump hi Perh~ failure t has COD! the da} country Mr. rhetoric great p unknow has revE Govern< Mr. l Iris emc conferel governo demons in dealit In \ hard-lin conserv; in Med Vietnan importa out oft The laughin1 appealit candid. a totally 1 In ti effectiv availabl lead thi No s to reali Minnea Party v Vice P handle consuill Mr. rights : Natiom Rights such px sociall; Mr. , impress the nu< treaty docum1 As J vital p~ Vice P prop on on, is one< For onNm

m gradua~e their'' years - ror im~ we more What we~re- au .and slaves, alike~ This ' start with Wider y, polities, coun • ' is racial op- rebel,. they either ou or kill scbo,al or bOU:J.Ce ~h•3Y do. renegade smothered it's gets it; often the of flgllt- .. mistake o~ college, like gotng Yo11 can•t it so you and raise That's • But just stay with black ttrst of slav- kidding eventual ve organ- 5et free- started people, power. Insist heir own aca- They .. ~ to respect, weapons. eomrnu- to da •lee M cards. books ·\' and they system in raze one come 'l'hey of walls out and could_ where as it. And, ould study rea- oretically. But only Jike begun it. For the with Mr. Mr. our mind. rapidly requests, in its First Contest. (US for 25 cents Entries bard's haiku to epic to cookie to all College f;riends, ts. All to staff Office. far baving cookie that proper be category Faculty Reacts to Viet Bombshell PubH shed Tuesday and Friday dur· iJIC the school year by the Student Body <JI Union CoHe~:e. Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Repre• aentat·ive: N-ational Educ at•ional· Advertl'sing Service, Inc., ·Col-lege Publishers Representative, 360' Lexington Avenue, N. Y. c. Editorial Office, Old Gym, IJm on ,College, Public·ation ·Office, W'hite: hurst Printinfil & Binding Co., Inc .. 416-418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235·4450. .Entered in the Schenectady Post 'Qf.Cic\ as Second Clo~s Mail Matter, Subscriptwn 20¢ a copy; S6 e• year delivered anywhere In the Un'lt ed :States, SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 ................ 346-8614 .......... Editor--in~Chief Jeffrey C, Browne '69 ......•........ 346-9973 .......... Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis '70 ........ , .•........ 346-1932 ....... Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ................... 372·8541 ..•...•. Managing Egitor , Allen Gartner '71. ................... 346-806 7 ............ News Editor Paul Andrews '71. ................... 393-7J1,8 ....•.. , . Features,_Editor Leonard Simon '70 ................. , 372-7227 ..•...•.... Sports Editor ' Paul Fa111ham '70 ... J ••••••••••• •••• 377-0329 ..•.... , Associate Editor . Alan Klein '69 ...................... 372-7718 ............ CopyEditor. JUNIOR BOARD Richard Ktamer '71 .................•....... , ...... ·Photography Editor · Henry Fein '71 .......... , ........................ Associate Sports Editor ; · Peter Weingold '71 .......................... , .Associate Features Editor , . Alan Cohen '71 .......... , ......... , •......... Assistant Features Editor ' Michael Swirsky '70 ...... , .•.... , .. , •..•.• National Advertising Manager : Jon Bru.snwic.k '70 .............................. , .. Distribution Director ' Carl Goldsand '70 ....................... , .......... Circulation Manag;er Larry Rothblum '70 .................•............ Subscription Manager :. Jerry Levine '71 ..... , ........................ Local Advertising Manager , Jerry Bim '71 ..................... , ....•........ Local Advertising Manager , · Uoyd Burns '71 .................... , •. Schenectady Advertising Manager . STAFFS News- Mike Crowley, Carl Dietz, Larry Friedman, Harris Ginsberg, Ken · Golden, Steve Heller, Bruce Husten, Steve Levy, Alan Mell, Joe Schwartz, Randy Sutter, Ken Wyse, Gary Yams, Jon Anes. Features - Paul Markes, Steven Cole, Steve David, Danny Shocket, Bill Sbapiro. Hubert H. Humphrey This year's choice for President of the United States is clearly Iess satisfactory than it could be for most college students. In Time's Choice '68 last spring, Senator McCarthy and Governor Rockefeller ran away with the primary here at Union. About the same time as the college primary, however, Saul Alinsky visited Union and told students that \we must live in the world as it is, and not as we might like it.\ Many McCavthy supporters have since threatened to boycott the quickly approaching presidential election. Such a step is selfdefeating and politically foolhardy. Hence, we endorse the candidacy of Hubert H. Humphrey for President of the United States. Perhaps the greatest reason Mr. Nixon is not acceptable is his failure to face the issues in the campaign. The fonner vice·president\ has consistently refused to reveal his position on the major iss11.e~ of. the day, attempting instead to rely on what he thinks is the country's need for new leadership, no matter what the quality. Mr. Nixon's actions, however, speak in place of his absent rhetoric. His selection of Spiro Agnew may well rank as one ()f the great political blunders of the century. Originally chosen as an unknown who would neither help nor harm the ticket, Mr. Agnew has revealed himself as a man n()t fit even to hold his positi<>n as Governor of Maryland. Mr. Nixon has likewise failed todispell the image he created with his emotional .. you can't attack Richard Nixon any more\ news conference after his defeat in the 1962 race for the California governorship. By refusing to debate or discuss the issues, he has demonstrated a lack of confidence and poise necessary for example, in dealing with the tender Paris negotiations. In what little he has revealed, Mr. Nixon has taken a rather hard-line stand both at home and abroad. He has advocated such conservative positions as a step-up in military shipbuilding, a cutback in Medicare and Social Security, continued bombing of North Vietnam until there is no military risk, rejection of the most important nuclear non-proliferation treaty and keeping Red China out of the United Nations. The Wallace candidacy, once regarded as a joke, is far from a laughing matter. The former Alabama governor is a demag;ogue, appealing to all the fears and prejudices of the American people. His candidacy represents a step back into the 17th Centllty and must be totally rejected. In times as troubled as these, only one of the nomine~s has effectively presented himself to the American people. Of the choices available, Hubert Humphrey has best demonstrated his ability to lead this nation. No serious student of the national and international scene can fail to realize Mr. Humphrey's outstanding contribution. As may-or of Minneapolis, leader of the Minnesota Democ:fatic-Farmer La.bor Party wiih Eugene McCarthy, th.e Senate's Majority Whip, lLll.d as Vice President, Mr. Humphrey has demonstrated his abiliiy to handle perplexing problems with originality, energy, and consummate skill. Mr. Humphrey has played important roles in the struggle f()r civil rights since his now-famous floor fight at the 1948 Democratic National COnvention, and his authored large portions of every Civil Rights Act passed in the last two decades. He is the originator of such programs as the Model Cities, and Project Head Start. Epochal social landmarks like Medicare bear the Humphrey stamp. Mr._Humphrey's record in the international arena is eq11ally , impressive. Perhaps his greatest moment in politics was the siglling of the nuclear test ban treaty. Mr. Humphrey was a major author()[ the treaty itself, and as majority whip gained Senate approval f()f the document. by Larry Friedman Since 8:00 AM, by President Johnson's order, there has been a total halt in the bombing of North Vietnam. After conferring with the National Security Council, top advisers, and the three major presidential candidates, Johnson made the announcement, saying he had reason to expect that North Vietnam would begin \prompt productive, serious, and intentive negotiations,\ when the broadened talks begin on Nov. 6. These expanded talks will include representatives of both the Saigon government and the National Liberation Front. Although he stressed that the halt does not mean that a stable peace has come to Vietnam., the President said that lh~ Paris negotiations would be intensified, \in the belief that this action can lead to progress toward a peaceful settlement of the Vietnam war.\ He said that he believes that North. Vietnam would begin serious negotiations in an atmosphere conducive to :rrogress next Wednesday, when Traditional Natural Shoulder Clo.thing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 61 st Year in Down1own Schenectady Down to Louis', I et us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere As for the Vietnam disaster,. Mr. Humphrey obviously played a. vital part in shapiQg the present American policy. As a fiercely loyal Vice President, Mr. Humphrey repeatedly served as an outsjl()ken proponent and \whipping boy\ for the Johnson policy. On ,the other hand, it has long been reported that Mr. Humphrey is one of the most \dovish\ of the inner circle advisors. NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. For these reasons, we urge you to vote for Hubert H. Hun.phrey on November 5. NOW IN OUR 14th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 the talks reopen in Paris. However, U.S. Officials said that North Vietnam understands that the bombing halt would be broken promptly if useful talks are not initiated. Aft.er hearing of the halt, Concordiensis solicited the following optntons from members of the faculty: Professor Joseph Finklestein, Chairman of the History Department, was \delighted and very, very happy,\ when he was told of the halt. He then said that now the U.S. ought to consider the objectives of its world-wide foreign policy. \The worst thing about the war is that it is so destructive to both the U.S. and the Vietnamese.\ \It's most encouraging,\ replied Professor Martin Lichterman, Dean of Center I. He added that he believes that the bombing halt would help the Democrats, and he would rather see Humphrey than Nixon as president. In a prepared statement, Professor Robert Sharlet of political science said: \In regard to the election, assuming North Vietnam does nothing to take advantage of the halt, this step should help the Humphrey candidacy ... It may also undermine Lemay's position and weaken Wallace's candidacy. In spite of this, however, Humphrey remains the underdog. In regard to U.S. foreign policy, if North Vietnam reciprocates, and the negotiations become productive, then the U.S. may recoup some of its lost prestige from friends and neutrals; and since the Soviet Union possibly served as an intermediary, world attention may be distracted from the Czechoslovakian invasion and open the way for more East-West bridge building.\ \It's a material step forward, although I do not feel that the 5KIINSTRUCTORS elections will 1>e affected,\ responded Lt. Col. Charles O'Bier of Union AFROTC. Richard Sine, Director of the Union College News Bureau said, \I don't think Johnson's statement is enough to have an effect on the elections, unless there is a measured amount of agreement from the other side before the Wednesday meeting. It won't change my vote, though I feel sorry for Johnson; but he tried too late.\ \I think that the results of the Vietnamese commitment for either party would be a reluctance to move in on affairs of other nations, such as in the Dominican Republic,\ noted Professor Michael Shinagel, Chainnan of the Department of English. BLITHER Prof. Thomas R. Hoffman of the electrical engineering department will speak at an I.E.E.E. meeting Tuesday November 5 at 8:30 p.m. in room 24 of the E.E.. building. He will present a slide show and talk on his travels and teaching experiences in Taiwan where he spent last year as a Fulbright professor. All fraternities and student organizations must return their membership lists to the Student Activities office immediately. DARITREET RESTAURANT YOUR CIIOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN • . . $ 1.65 2049 Van Vre~nken Ave. FR 7-4261 Weekend positions available · · for skiers to instrnet hlgh -school- boy's and ~rls. Prior in- struction expenence not re-: , guired. Good compensation. Ex-cellent ski facilities. 1 SHAKER VILLAGE ' SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road. New Lebanon. N •. Y. Lebanon Springs (N.'f~) 7-1255 -f{f: Now's ).~· The Time .... ;;..o_ To MARRY ME Jackie's at the altar , , • , How About You. Signed The Greek Buy your Wedding- Ring' or En· .gagement Ring at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons Jew:elers, 166 Jay St. ~ Garnet Beet Willictns t CELESRATE THAT HOMECCJMI~G VII~ WITH PHIL'S OWN BRAND Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 ~3-3110~ Vinttks Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street Park & Shop at Lafayette Free Parking

WIPE OUT WILLIAMS Concordy Sports :F The Ephmen peful idders by Gary Prevost Tomorrow on Alexander Field, the Garnet eleven will be attempting to achieve two goals which have eluded the last eleven Dutchmen squads - a victory over Williams College and a winning season. The 1956 Garnet had a fine 6-2 slate which included a 20-14 1:1pset win over the Ephman. Since that date, however, the Dutchmen have dropped eleven straight to Williams and have failed to put a season's slate on the plus side. Williams, the Garnet's only Division II opponent, is currently 4-1. Since Union-WiHiams football was inaugurated in 1877, the Ephmen have dominated the series in much the same manner that the Garnet have controlled R.P.I. In 1889, the Dutchmen suffered an ignominious 130-0 defeat, and as recently as 1957 fell 65-0. A year ago, the Garnet traveled to Williamstown with a 4-1 record and high hopes of an upset, but lost 35-0 amid a torrential raiNstorm and key injuries to Ken Pearce and Craig Carlson. Lasy year's humiliation will definitely be present in the minds of this year's Union .squad. Blown Leads In the three seasons prior to last year's debacle, the Garnet had made three efforts at pulling off the big upset, leading each game at halftime. Strong second-half rallies by the Ephmen buried the Garnet 48-27 in 1964 and 27-12 in 1966, but it was the 1965 defeat that hit the Dutchmen the hardest. Leading 27-14 with only six minutes remaining on the strength of Tom Hitchcock's finest day (30 of 50 for 322 yards). The Garnet attempted to play ball control and failed to move. Williams scored both times it had the ball, with the clincher coming on a pass off a double reverse, for a 28-27 victory. The 4-1 WIIliams squad, which comes to Schenectady tomorrow is a very unpredictable team. A week ago, the EphmeN were 4-0 and ranked at 1he top of Division II (the division above Union) on the strength of victories over Trinity {31-14), Rochester (7-6), Middlebury (48-14), a.nd Bowdoin ( 14-7). Leading 22-0 in the first half against Tufts, it appeared that for the second year ifl a row the Garnet would once again face an undefeated Williams squad. However, the Jumbos, who are now also 4-1, rallied through the air and claimed a 30-28 upset when a last-minute two~point conversion attempt by the Purple misfired. Ranking Wrong Actually, the number one ranking did not seem justified, because only the Trinity victory was impressive. The Garnet downed Rochester 21-7, so a one-point Williams victory certainly does not indicate a superior Ephmen squad. Middlebury is hopeless, while Bowdoin is Rot exactly a New England football power. Though the ranking may not have been justified (the Ephmen dropped to fifth in this week's ranlcings), Williams has several impressive individuals who could give the Garnet a bad day. Junior halfback Jack Maitland, who scored two touchdowns in last year's contest, is the best back the Garnet will face this year. Last season, Maitland gained 1070 yards and was named ECAC Division II Player of the Year. This year the 6' 1 \ 190-lber has gained 614 yards in four games, averaging 6.3 yards per carry. He sat out the Rochester contest, which may explain the closeness of that game. Joining Maitland in the backfield, fullback Jon Petke has carried 57 times for 233 yards. Williams Throws Last year, Williams was a ground-based team, but this season's quarterback, John Hayes, is a fme thrower. The 6'0\ senior has completed 37 of 72 passes for 527 yards with four interceptions. He is also a running threat, having gained 155 yards. SIMON SEZ by LEN SIMON Similarities abound between .the 196 7 and 1968 editions of Union College football. The present 4-1 Garnet. record is identical to last year's standing at this time, and both teams suffered their only defeat at the hands of Kings Point. Game by game analysis also shows similarity. Both Mariner losses were dim ones, while both victories over R.P.L were less than impressive, with the margin of victory less than two touchdowns. Last year's squad clobbered St. Lawrence and snuck by Rochester, while this year's gridders did nearly the opposite. Only the performances against Hobart ruin the balance. The big names on both squads are largely the same, as only Sam Dill was lost through graduation and Steve Bauer and Skip Lynch on eligibility. Only Jerry Ostrander and Larry Sykes have made names for themselves as sophs. Despite these similarities, one major difference between the two teams makes it much more likely that the 1968 squad will succeed where its predecessor failed - that is, in winning more games than it loses. Last year; the gridders lost star receiver Craig Carlson early in the \rilliams contest, and his injury was one of the largest factors in the dismal 4-4 finish. Opposing defenses double and triple covered Rich Swan, and the impotence of last season's running attack cost the Garnet a winning season. This year, however, the gridders have managed a nearly identical record largely witl1out the services of Carlson. Craig was put out for the season with an injury sustained during the King's Point contest. The team, mainly because of several fine defensive efforts has suffered the loss of Carlson without.the collapse of last season. Using Swan mainly as a decoy but going to him for infrequent key third down plays, the team has established a running attack which has gotten them to 4-1. With Joe James not up to par physically, Sykes and Ostrander have taken up the slack nicely. This difference may manifest itself tomorrow, when the gridders. take on Williams. The last Union victory in the series came in 1956, also the last winning season for Union football. If Jack Maitland can be held to a reasonable number of yards gained, and if good weather is granted, the 1968 Union football team just may prove itself different from 196 7 in a big way. for Utopia wingback spot, a.s <:oach George Flood searches for an effective passing combinatit>n. The Garnet must nevertheless lle rated a distinct underdog in tomorrow's contest if for no Qther reason tha11 Union has not been able to beat WilJ,iams in football .. The effect of last week's loss by the Ephmen is Hayes' chief receivers are 6'6\ split end Sandy Smith and alternating wi ngbacks Bob Quinn and Jim Dunn. The latter was the leading rusher in New England as a S@phomore, but Maitland and Petke gain~d the· starting positions. when Dunn was injured last year. The 196 7 offensive line was decimated by graduation last yeaTt, but the new unit headed by Dick Pienert is hard to determine. It may have more than adequa~e. awakened them ffom a false All-New England linebacker sense of security, hut the loss Ross Wilson leads an may have also created some experienced defensive unit doubts in the sqaad's mind. which has allowed an average of Williams may ~lso continue to 280 yards per game. The look ahead to Little Th1ee defensive secondary, which w~s contests with Wesleyan and dec.imated by Tlifts, is led by Amherst. and b~ \Wlnerable to an senior Dave :Mason who has four upset. To pull1t @ff, the Garnet interceptions this season. · defense will at lEast have to The Garnet emerged from the.<• contain Maitland and force Hobart contest without injuries· Williams to the .air, where they and should be at full strength. are s?mewhat less effective. Joe James, who was slightly Offensively, the Ilutchmen must hobbled last week, should be reach the expl <lsive potential 100 per cent. Offensively, the that they posses if they are to Garnet fans can expect to see leave Alexander Field with the more of Rich Swan in the winning season iah.and. . . Booters Fall Twice· by MIKE REGER The Garnet boaters, facing continually tougher competition, dro-pped both of their contests this week, falling to R.P.L 4-0 here Tuesday, and coming out on the short end of a 3-1 decision <Jt Colgate yesterday. The Red Raiders, who defeated top-rall'ked Hartwick 4-2 earlier this season, largely controlled the Garnet contest. Although neither team scored in the first period, the Colgate hooters jumped to a 2-0 halftime edge. Rich Tubin tallied first for the Red Raiders,. on a penalty kick with 8:43 gone in the second stanze. Doug Peterson added number two with 12:36 gone. The Red Raiders opened up a 3-0 margin when Rich Tisch tallied with 14:5 4 gone in the third period. Chds Swan kicked home the sole Garnet score at 16:54 ofthe final .stanze. In the R.P.L contest, the Garnet was plagued by an erratic defense and an offense which could not sustain in a prolonged att;:tck in the R.P.J. end. A tough Garnet defense held the Engineers scoreless during the first period bui Union was unable to keep the ball in Rensselaer territory. The Engineers came back early in the second period to score the only goal of the first half with a penalty kick at the 1:13 mark. . . R ensseltute • s All-American candidate Tom ·<:onroy opened the second half scoring with a go~ at 13:39 of the third period. R.P.I. added anothei marker at 19:3() of the same period when Garnet goalie Chris Cartsonis was 'aea.vily screened on a shot that rolled by his right side. The last weel of the season will provide n<> letup for the Garnet in the quality of the competition. On Saturday Union will face their stjffest test of the season as they meet an undefeated Trillity squad in a home contest. In Trinity's last encounter, they defeated the Williams team that beat Brown, considered by ma11y to be the best soccer team .j11 the East. ECAC HONORS Fullback Lury Sykes was named to the a11:ECAC Division III team for 11is play last Saturday agains1 Hobart, when he gained 105 yards in 21 carries. The Gar~et moved from ninth to seventh place in the Division II l rankings. Undefeated Kings Point, the only team to defeat the Dutchmen, move([ into the top spot in the clivision on the strength of a 240 victory over 1967 Lambert Cup winner Wagner. Defensive end John Burton of the Garnet was also nominated for the all-star squad. DEWITT'S C~eteria and Tap Room Fine Food and legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREfT ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CI.EAtiiNG VHJAGE AT 1559 VANVRANKEN AVE. (at HottieStreetJ DRY CLEANING WASHEitS 8 Lbs. --~--- ----- $2.00 12 Lb.~----------- .25 4lb.Min. ________ 1.00 20Lb .... ___________ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. _ ~- _____ ---- .50 10 Min.-------·~--- .10 OPEN - Mon. thru Fri. 8 A.M.-9 P.M. Sot. 8 A.M. too 5 P.M. CLOSED SUNDAYS IF YOU HAVE. NEVElt HAD NORGE DRY CLEANIIiiG DONE tilE CAN BET YOU \'JILL BE AMAZED Ju 1:11 Anders' Saturday nigt football game , Union an< HAIL THE VICTORS : The Garnet harriers, who Wednesday ended a four-year losing streak with a 21-34 victory at Trinity. Standing (from lett): Coach ~on Coleman, Rich (Jooperwasser, J()lm Braltam, Terry McMannus. Kneeling: Joe Bttrgess, Myron Fribush. .· compete for sophmore·SJ Runners 'Wi,n !!!, First in 4 Years by PAUL FORBES Fischetti did not figure in the scoring but proved very effective in Feserve. The victory was very sweet • for the overdue harriers and served as a suitable reply to the 'Trinity paper which having predicted victory for the Trinity team ended up by stating, \Yes Union is that bad.\ Special credit should go to a patient Coach Ron Coleman who has never given up on his boys. The frosh squad made it a dual victory on Wednesday with I Tierne nessmen· she discovere · guitar, whicl any dens. The streak is dead! Long live the streak! For the first time in four years the varsity cross-country team has recorded a victory with a decisive 21-34 win Wednesday against Trinity. To t<Jp off the victory Myron Fribush, only senior on the squad, captured the individuals honors. With a tremendous finishing kick Fribush was able to blast over the line first. Joe Berger running his best race of the year took third overall and Terry McManus with a superb effort crossed the line next. Wrapping up the scoring were Dick Cooperweis and John Braham who placed sixth and seventh respectively and assured the victory with their outstanding performances. Mario a 19-41 crushing of the Trinity freshmen. Bryant Moeckel again took: first place honors with Paul Forbes second, Dave Rice • fourth, Larry Thornton fifth, Tom Klinkow seventh, Keith Jamba eight, and Bob Baas ninth. Both teams go after the 'I New York State Championship Saturday at Oswego. ·I $14.98 - $19.98 The Proprietor has one. nncl the Gcntlr.mnn r:nn g<~t one. by a visit to our swenter c:ollect ion. Two of t hP. most appealing cable knits are depicted, in fin£' Sht>tlnnd woollen. The line-up is extensive, and ready now. alltt ~rtuir~ ;ibnp· . ... 326 STATE .STREET, 377-3061 ! ' J \.' Dawson 1 ' he expects 1\- She has l diability at Tickets ~ until noon 1 Fratern Alpha [ Chi Psi Delta C Delta P: Delta U Kappa. Phi Del Phi Eps Phi Gar Phi Sigt Phi Sigi Psi Ups Sigma< Sigma I Theta E Beta Tl The in Fox . will pre obtaine

!.. .·.t.· , '· \A Causa Persa Parole · Assai\ Vol. 98 No. 12 Founded at Union College 187( SCHENECTADY, N.Y.,NOVEMBER 5, Hl 1 ?3 ·Report from Londo•n Page 2 PRICE TWENTY CENTS .• ' .~~···] Judy Collins Sings Saturday In Fall Weekend High Point Garnet Down Ephman Squad Victorious Seas,on Assured As Sykes and Ostran.der Star .· ·. k ~.· .... ,.,. . •endeda Standing Braham, s e in the effective ry sweet iers and ly to the having e Trinity 1g, \Yes Special patient who has ys. ade it a iay with ~ Trinity <el again vith Paul 1e Rice 1n fifth, t, Keith Jb Baas 1fter the pionship le, lSI nd I by Alan Mell The Judy Collins Concert in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 Sattuday highlights the upcoming Fall eekend .schedule, which also features . a talent show ,and hay ride on Friday the Mountebanks presentation Andersonville Trial\ Friday and Saturday nights, and the Uniot'I-Alfred football game Saturday afternoon. , Union and Skidmore students wiH ·.•. compete for free concert tickets in the , sophmore-sp0nsoted talent show. · r Tierney,. '69, will emcee the Don K:essler, who is organizing the , has lined up seven amateur acts far. If student interest is strong , he hopes to make talent an annual event at Union. There be no admission charge for the , which will be held in the Chapel ·at 7:00 Friday. Professional entertainment takes Saturday night, when Judy ins, who is generally considered second only to Joan Baez among female folksingers, appears in the ,hapel. She will be accompanied by Paul arris, a Union graduate, who regularly plays piano for Miss Collins personal appearances. The 29 year old singer entered show business as a pianist in her ometown orchestra, the Denver nessmen's Symphony. Before long she discovered another instrument, the ·. guitar, which she was soon using to herself in Denver folk First Record After coming east, she recorded her album, A Maid of Constant Sorrow. The tide song became her trademark. Since then Miss Collins has ire<:on1ed six albums. ' ' ', ' / .. . ·. ~ ';1 ~- ~ .1, ... ~...,;,.. .... \ • ..;.., ...... 4 Judy Collins-Famous songstress will appear in Memorial Chapel Saturday nigllt. Activities Office and from 35 dormitory and fraternity representatives. After noon tomorrow, tickets will be sold at the Activities Office only. Dawson estimates that half of the 1450 tickets, which are three dollars each, were sold as of last night. If the concert is sold out, as anticipated, the class treasury will be about nine hundred dollars richer. A profit on Saturday night will make another concert this year, or an art show, possible. The doors to the Chapel will open forty-five minutes before the concert begins at 8:30. The show should be about ninety minutes long, with an intermission. The hay ride on Friday night is sponsored by the Junior class, but all students are invited. Tickets are two dollars a couple and students are expected to supply their own food and drink. The hay ride starts after the talent sh.ow. Students interested in being ushers at the Judy Collins Concert should contack Jim Kadamus at Delta Chi by Jay Blitzman h did happen; 4100 wild partisan fans will gladly attest to the fact that Saturday, at Alexander Field, the Garnet achieved their most impressive and meaningful victory since 1956 as they disposed of powerful Williams, 17-7. By virtue of this upset win the Gamet are insured of a winning season to go a:long with their newly acquired ICAC title. The pattern ofURion dominance in the first half was established immediately after the opening kickoff. In a start reminiscent of the ball control employed against Rochester, Ken Pearce sent running back Jerry Ostrander into the Ephmen line on four consecutive carries, moving the ball from the Union 25 to the 49. The play of the offensive line was outstanding in this sequence and during the entire game, as they fired eff at the snap with precision, catching their larger adversaries off balance on traps. The play of guards Ed Arnold E:lections In Escrow Freshman class elections will be delayed for at least two weeks and possibly forever, Jim Stillman, Student Council Vice-president, announced Monday. Whether elections for class officers will be held at all will depend upon the student electorate's decision on the issue of doing away with class officers. Students will vote on that among the other issues raised in the referendum being prepared by the informal committee on the reorganization of student government within the next two weeks. For the time being, petitions for those seeking office in the Class of '72 will be due Friday, Nov. 22, and elections will be held the next Tuesday. . and Doug Me]e, tackles Bill Dwyer and Paul Beadle, and centers Bill Birns and. Doug Werth was phenomenal. Beadle, at left tackle, has continued to impress following his conversion from defensive tackle. ·Larry Sykes and Ostrander move the ball to the Williams 25 where the drive ended on Rich Swan's fumble of a Pearce look-in. Williams' heralded Jack Maitland displayed tremendous speed, but his runniRg ro0m was limited by the pmsuit of defensive en•ds John Burton and Kevin Monahan. With 4:45 left in the period, Pearce engineered a drive from the home thirty to -the Ephman 29 featuring the explosive running of Larry Sykes aRd a key third down pass to Ostrander on a third and five play. This drive was abortive, as a second down pass intended for Swan was picked off, the first of three passes Williams was to intercept. The Garnet defense, which has been impregnable in the last three games, was even better today. Unable to run outside with any degree of success, Williams quarterback Hayes found the middle jammed by tackles Tom Oberst (continued on page 4) New Panel Appointed To Hear Complaints A new student-faculty group, the Liason Committee, has been established to handle student complaints about any college office. The body will act as a line of communication between students, faculty, and the administration. It will receive and investigate complaints from groups or individuals and make recommendations based on those complaints. For the numbers she records and sings in person, Miss Collins draws heavily on Bob Dylan, Jacques Brei Jodi Mitchell, even though she VITA Discusses Small Business Problems The committee is willing to hear complaints anonymously. If a complaint should go before another college bo<ty, the Liason Committee i herself composes songs, some of which appear on her albums. VITA (Vohwteers for International Technical Assistance) will hold an all day conference on November 23 in Old Chapel. The conference's topic is \Selected Problems in Small Business Opportunities in Developing Areas\ and corresponds with Vita's purpose which is to assist underdeveloped nations in technical problems. . Her latest album, Wildflowers, · . mcludes her latest single, Both Sides Now, as well as three of her own numbers. Miss Collins' eighth album be released later this month. }. ,, \..' ,. Bill Dawson, the Sophmore Class President, states that plans for the cert are moving along smoothly. The conference will open at 10 a.m. with an introduction by Chairn1an for the morning sessions, Dean Palmer. He will be followed by Ken Kalb, Program Director for Vita who will speak on \How Vita is Serving Small Business\. Collins will arrive here early Saturday afternoon to rehearse and rest before the perfomance. Reliable Judy Dawson assured Concordiensis that he expects Miss Collins to ~e punctual. She has developed a record of diability at other college &oncerts. Mr. Richard Jones, former associate publisher of American Building Magazine will then talk on small businesses in Russia and Singapore. At 11 a.m. a panel with Professor Tickets for the concert are on sale until noon Wednesday at the Student Fraternity Alpha Delta Phi Chi Psi Delta Chi Delta Phi Delta Upsilon Kappa Alpha Phi Delta Theta Phi Epsilon Pi Phi Gamma Delta Phi Sigma Delta Phi Sigma Kappa Psi Upsilon Sigma Chi Sigma Phi Theta E>elta Chi Beta Theta Pi . Friday Satmday Open (Frosh) Open (Frosh) None Open (Frosh) Open (couples) Open (couples) Open Open Open Open Open Closed Open (Frosh) Open (Frosh) Closed Open Closed Open Open Closed Open None Open (Frosh) Open (Frosh). None Open (F rosh) Closed Open (Frosh & couples) Closed Open (Frosh) Open Open The Independents will hold a cocktail party from 5-7 p.m. on Saturday in Fox House Lounge. Mixed drinks will be served and Cliff Safane's Combo ·will provide entertainment. Tickets are $2.50 per couple and may be obtained from floor UIC the door. Eisenstadt as moderator will discuss \How Small Business Can Get Help on Its Problems\. The panel will include Professor Spence from RPI, Dean Palmer, Professor Railly, Computer Center Manager SUNY A, Mr. Kalbach of the Space Technical Service Progra.lll at RPI and Professor Baldrey from Hudson Valley Community College. \Small Business Characteristics-- -The Action Plan Technoserve\ will then be described by Mr. Edward Bullard l V, Executive Director Technoserve, followed by a 12:30 p.m. luncheon in West College at which there will also be a speaker. The afternoon session, headed by Chairman Frank Bunk VITA Coordinator, will comence with a speech, by Mr. Nial, President of Aerovac Corporation. dealing with the problems of small businesses. At 2:30 p.m. the topic will switch to \The Voice From India\ with Mr. Prakash. Priakh, head of the Technical Experts Panel for Rapid Economic Advancement of India and Mr. Lawerence Me Cray the India representative for VITA and a graduate student at M.LT. speaking. \A View of the Overall Problems of Businessmen· in Developing Areas\ will be given by Paul Kaplan a graduate student at Cornell, after which another panel headed by Dr. Hillig, a physical chemist at GE and VITA Director, will discuss ••Non-Technological Problems and How They May Be Approached\. The members will incl11de Mr. McCray, Mr. Bullard IV, Mr. Jones, and Professor Carbett from SUNY A. The conference will conclude with a summary by Mr. Bunk and a sherry hour in Hale House. VITA, with over 5,000 volunteer member throughout the nation, has its headquarters at Union College. It receives letters with problems from underdeveloped countries, seeks a solution, synthezies it into simplified form and sends recomendations to the underdeveloped nation. will merely refer the complainant to the appropriate place. Mathematics Professor Theodore A. Bick will chair the committee. Student members are Donald L. DeMichele and Robert B. Saltzman. Other faculty members are Economics Lecturer Peter A. Prosper and Music Professor Hugh Alan Wilson. Any of the above will receive complaints for considerations. Fraternities Receive Orphans Psi Upsilon and Delta Phi were hosts to 38 children from the Schenectady Children's Shelter and the Children's Home Annex at Saturday's football game. The children included both orphans and those from broken homes. Dan Mead, Inter-Fraternity Council president, said that the brothers of Psi Upsilon took IS boys to the fbotball game, showed them the fraternity house, played football with them and served refreshments. Plans for the future include a dinner or party at Thanksgiving and perhaps Christmas and Easter parties for the children. Mead said that all of the brothers participating in the pt\'ject want to continue this type of activity. The brothers of Delta Phi has 23 children up for lunch and the football game. They sponsored similar activities last year and hope to have a Christmas party this year. Dan Mead said he hoped to see this type .of activity expanded by all the fraternities. There may be opportunities to work with the Child Guidance Center and with Ellis Hospital patients needing mental therapy. Dan Mead and his friend Clifford enjoy the Union - WiUiams Game as part of a fraternity project with the Schenectady Children's shelter.

Repo·rl from London: Aft~r Being PoUed To Death, 30,000 Protestors Taken Calmly Losers Will Watch CBS Picks :by Larry Friedman ax;ound. We foresaw such bright ligh1s as Gene McCarthy, Bobby Kennedy, and Rockefeller as by Richard E. Patterson, Jr. Londoners take their causes seriously. It's common to read of damage done to subway trains, athletic stadiums, or referees heads by soccer fans after a hard fought match. But everyone seems to take this sort of thing in stride. So it was with the October 27th Anti-Viet Narn War protest in London. It was serious business, but like a soccer match, good entertainment, and the city took it all calmly. Cold weather and the threat of rain did not dampen the holida~ spirit of the marchers. With all the colorful posters, bannets and clothing on parade, the march's carnival atmosphere also soon infected most \gawpers\ (spectators) eager to capitalize on a change from the usual Sunday afternoon with 41.fl old Doris Day movie. Any group with a cause to champion, however unrelated it might seem to Viet Nam, took the opportunity to publicize it's case in the march. There were pleas to \Save Biafra\ and \Support the Greek Resistance\. Socialist banners demanded the government \Freeze rent not wages\ and institute ••workers Control\ in the factories. A Marxist group urged demonstrators to \March on the U.S. Embassy\ and \Victory to the NIF\ (an official slogan of the demonstration) were everywhere. VietNam Solidarity Committee The march organizers, The Viet Nam Solidarity Committee (VSC), led by Britain's answer to Daniel Cohn-Mendit, Pakistani-hom Tarig Ali, laid out a winding route designed to pass most of the places symbolizing areas of disgust for Britain's militant left. Publisned Tuesday and Frtday dur- Ing the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady. N.Y. National Adverttstng Repre• sentative: National Educ at tonal Advert1smg Serv1ce, Inc., College Publtshers Representative, 360 LeXington Avenue, N.Y. C. Cries of \Smash the Bourgeoise press\ went up as the march passed down Fleet Street, the home of London's (and Britain's) major newspapers, most of which support U.S. involvement in Viet Nam. At Austrailia House, an Australian flag was burned in protest of Australia's support of the U.S. in Viet Nam. Rhodesia House was loudly booed and hissed because of that country's racist policies. ••wilson Out\ As the march eNtered Whitehall, where the national government is housed, the hisses and chants gfew louder. At Downing Street, cries of \Wilson Out\ failed to produce the Prime Minister, who was vacationing in the country. Tarig Ali was allowed to deliver a letter of protest over \British complicity\ in the Vietnam War to the Prime Minister's residence, but Downing Street and all government buildings in Whitehall were sealed off by hundFeds of police standing shoulder to shoulder. No attempt was made to break their lines. Frorn here the main march proceeded without incident through Parliament Square an on to a rally in Hyde Park. The march was extremely restrained and orderly. Earlier, however, a group of about 2,000 protestors, led by the Maoists, broke from the main march to go to Grosvenor Square to confront the U.S. Embassy. The VSC had deliverately avoided taking the marchers there for fear of a violent confrontation with police. Upon arriving in the square, the demonstrators found it sealed off by about 500 police standing shoulder to shoulder and reinforced by mounted police. None could get within 60 yards of the embassy. Edltortal Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publlcatton Office. Whlle· hurst Prtnttng & Bmdtng Co .. Inc .. 415-418 Ftft·h Ave .. Troy. 235·4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Ofhce as Second Class Mad Matter. Subscrtptton 20¢ a copy; $6 a year dehvered anywhere •n the Untted States. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 ................ 346-8614 .......... Editor· in-Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ............... 346-9973 .......... Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis '70 ................... 346-1932 ...... , Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ................. , . 372-8541 ........ Managing Editor Allen Gartner '71 .................... 346-8067 ............ News Editor Pa11l Andrews '71 .................... 39 3-73 78 ......... Features Editor Leonard Simon '70 .................. 372-7227 ........... Sports Editor Pa11l Farnham •70 ................... 377 _ 0329 ........ Associate Editor Alan Klein ~69 ...................... 372-7718 ............ Copy Editor JUNIOR BOARD Richard Kramer '71 ................................ Photogr~phy Editor Heruy Fein '71 .................................. Associate Sports Editor Peter Weingold '71 ............................ Associate Features Editor Alan Cohen '71 ............................... Assistant Features Editor Michael Swirsky '70 ....•.................. National Advertising Manager Jon Brunswick '70 ................... , ............ Distribution Director CarJ.Goldsand '70 .................... , ............. Cil'culation Manager Larry Rothblum '70 .............................. Subscription Manager Jerry Levine '71 .............................. Local Advertising Manager Jeffrey Birn '71 ............................... Local Advertising Manager STAFFS News - Mike Crowley, Carl Dietz, Larry Friedman, Harris Ginsberg, Ken Golden, Steve Heller, Bruce Husten, Steve Levy, Alan Mell, Joe Schwartz, Randy Sutter, Ken Wyse, Gary Yaros, Jon Anes. Features - Paul Markes, Steven Cole, Steve David, Danny Shocket, Bill Shapiro. Sports - Gary Provost, Michael Reger, Walt Spencer, Stu Moss, Paul Forbes, Jay Blitzman, Bill Holleron. Photography - Dave Zapata, Mark Lichtenstein, Jody Saslow, Geo:qge Kaplan, Mark Boylan, George Marquez, Jeff Silverman. The marchers began shouting anti-war, anti-U.S. slogans at the embassy but soon tired of this and began to charge the police lines in hopes· of breaking through to the embassy which was .guarded by marines inside. Police lines held and police took the ensuing sfuoving match in good humor. Police Encounter After one 'long period of calm, a frustrated demonstrator shouted to the .crowd, \Are we going to sit here and do nothing?\ The police replied in unison: \Yes.\ Copfrontin.g a protestor for the third time, one policeman said, ••sucker for punishment, aren't you?\ Why not call half time and come back tomorrow.\ One policeman, hit with a pear, dusted it on his sleeve and ate it. Another, hit with a penny shouted: \Half crowns (30 cents) only, please.\ A favorite sport of demonstrators was to use a policeman's helmet for an impromptu soccer match. All was not fun, however, as the demonstrators charged police lines at intervals for three hours. The lines held firm, and very few clubs were used against demonstrators. Most of the demonstrators were hurt in the rushes back and forth against police lines. The VSC ran its own ambulances, and about 40 students were treated for minor injuries at a first aid center in the London School of Economics, occupied over the weekend in solidarity with the march. Six police were injured, only one hospitalized. Forty people were arrested that day, most before the march began. Pre-demonstration publicity by the city papers rumored widespread violence, subway tie-ups, lootings, and a crowd of 50,000 demonstrators. For those spectators who carne to see blood and destruction, it must have been a disappointing day. Estimates of the size of the demonstration were around 30,000. One television newscast called it \The biggest non-event of the year.\ Mutual Praise For all those involved, police and demonstrators, October 27 was a triumph for good sense and restraint, and in a larger sense, it was a triumph for democracy. Home Secretary Callaghan, under heavy pressure to ban the march, refused and saw his judgment vindicated. The police, who publicly announced that only traditional crowd control measures would be used drew praise from the JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RAlliS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP · All Haircuts done: by Appoint- . m ent from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 3774010 press, public and the VSC. 1 understand why \London's finest\ are so highly respectecl. The demonstrators also drew praise from press, public and the police. There was none of the bitter d enunciation of \long-haried students\ that so frequently accompanies disorderly protest in the U.S. The march achieved its purpose of forcing people to examine the issues and perhaps also won over a sizable piece of public opinion. So the October Revolution ended. It didn't use the \up against the wall\ tactics and perhaps fer that reason, was pleasingly successful, even \revolutionary.\ What ,caused George Romney to extract himself fFom the Republican Presidential tangle months before it started? What prompted Nelson Rockefeller to jump in and out of the race like a fire-walker with athlete's foot? And what pushed Richard Nixon to the point of desperation, so that he not only accepted the Republican nomination, but also chose Spiro T. Agnew as his running mate? Well, it's that fine old All-American tradition called the Pol:ls. For a while, many months ago, it looked like we might be faced with a real tough decision when Election Day rolled Co-Ed Trend Continues; Only 214 Mens' Schools Of the 2,484 institutions of higher learning in the United States, only 462 are still sexually segregated-214 for men and 248 for women according to a report on the trend toward co-education in this week's U.S. News & World Report. The article states that in the last year 18 colleges have been taken off the all-male list while exclusively female institutions have decreased by 35. The increasingly important role of women in the economic and political life of the nation and the corresponding demand for broader educational opportunities are cited as important reasons for the co-ed trend. Also the desire of students to have the opposite sex on campus and the increasing competition with co-ed schools faced by the segregated institutions are factors. Officials at various schools switching to co-education have issued statements similar to GEN. BREW. CO., INC., ROCH., N.Y. those of Union's faculty committee on co-education. Wesleyan University has begun to admit women in order to become \a more realistic reflection of the larger society.\ A faculty committee at Lafayette College in Easton, Pa. Feported: \There is no denying that sexually segregated colleges came into being in a male-dominated society, and there are no sound educational arguments to support · their continued existence in a society that is no longer so extremely sexually segregated.\ The board of trustees of Vassar has declared that \the education of undergraduate women in isolation from men has outlived its historical justification.\ Others have pointed out that colleges are going to have to open their doors to women because of a national need for highly trained women. Women are entering more and more professions that once were only open to men. ... a l'itfle more exciting! potential candidates. Even Lyndon Johnson, in his inHnite wisdom, graced us with h ls departure from the presidential h((dlam. Smiling Hubert Humphrey never had a chance to close his mouth, because the survey:. rocketted him so quickly to the . top .. Within the past week, the polls have shown him sneaking 1 ' up on Nixon so that it's hard to , know the players without a 1 '\poll ca:Fd.\ ' And how woHld Georgc.1 Wallace have fa:Fed without the polls? So much attention has been given Wallace that a true .· barometer of the nation's 1 • conservative feelings will only be i knownnow. · Now, because of the polls, Wf?' 1 , a1e facecl with four years under the leadership of Dick Nixon, who has kept conveniently out , of sight of the candid televisio£Y eye; and Spiro Agnew, that avid fan of the New York Times, a man of truly unspeakable traits. Now by the time you readJ this article, the C.B.S. Vote •. Profile Analysis will have already •. chosen our next president with) the aid of its ultra high speed . computers utilizing a .03% voter profile. How's that for accuracy? So, when you awakeJ · tomonow morning, confident that the American voters have at , last made their choice, you will)! probably fmd that the whole · mess has been thrown into the : lap of the House of • Representatives. . In any case, it has been an : i nt ere sting, provacative, nerve-wracking election year., And four years hence, we will once again chose our president. There could be so many possibilities: McCarthy, Kennedy, Linclsay, Percy; let's take a survey ... M • ... The po~ administra Anderson 14,000 UI the theme Mountebar of the seas, The stu present Andersonv p.m. Tht 11 • Saturday ~ Theatre 01 Admission free. Their $1.00. Henry the arts at the Mount probably drama evet Weil lll play tal courtroom players on: James Lt. Col. prose cutin, attorney, ' by Philip C Michael Wirz, chat surroundin the prison. junior frc r--- iS I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ·1 CAl I t I I I Frid • I I GENEF r. I WA I '---·

Picks close his survey:- to the . week, the sneaking 1 ,. hard to . a l Georgc.1 ·. ithout the has a true nation's'' . only be i ' e polls, Wf?' 1 , ears under Nixon, out .. televisiof. ~, · , that avid Times, a traits. you read ) Vote • already • · with r speed • awakeJ · confident ers have at , will;! whole ·· into the : of s been an vacative, year., we will Mou.ntebanks Sel For Trial The post-Civil War trial of the administration of the notorious Andersonville prison, where 14,000 union soldiers died, is the theme of the Union College Mountebanks' frrst production of the season. The student drama group will present Saul Levitt's \The Andersonville Trial\ at 8:30 p.m. Thursday, Friday, and Maine, plays Gen. Lew Wallace, chief judge at the trial. Weil added that the play is based on the actual court records, with even the names of the principals involved remaining the same. president. so many cCarthy. ercy; let's •. 11 , Saturday at the Nott Memorial Theatre on the Union campus. Admission for Union students is free. Their dates will be charged In an effort to re-create a true courtroom feeling, Weil said the house lights will remain on throughout the perfonnance. Also, all seats in the theatre will be unreserved - the same as a true courtroom. The theatre box office will be open from 1-5 p.m. daily, except Saturday and Sunday, through the performances. The box office phone is 346-4098. Remaining tickets will be available at the door. _j il $1.00. Henry M. Well, instructor in the arts at Union and director of the Mountebanks, terms the play probably \the best courtroom drama ever written.\ Weil noted that the whole play takes place inside a courtroom, with the four leading players onstage throughout. James B. Gallagher portrays ·\ Lt. Col. N.P. Chipman, the prosecuting attorney. Defense attorney, Otis Baker, is played by Philip C. Rice. Michael D. Riley plays Henry Wirz, charged with war crimes surrounding his rele as head of the prison. W. Brian Haddock, a junior from South Windham, The same play will be pres en ted the following weekend, Thursday, Friday and Saturday evenings, at the Nott Memorial Theatre. Kodak Gives The Eastman Kodak Company has given Union College two grants totaling $9,800 as past of the firm's 1968 educational aid program totaling $4.3 million. r•••-~VALUABLE COUPONJ-•-•., I STUDENTS I I THIS COUPON WORTII I I I I I I c 1 I I I I I r1~1 I ~1 I -~ I TOWARD ADMISSION TO THE J 1 SEVENTH ANNUAL 1 ·1 CAPIT ALAND SKI SHOW I . t I Friday, Saturday, SundCiy I 1 NOVEMBER 8, 9, 10 1 I Friday 6 to 10:30 P.M.; Saturday 2 to 10:30 P.M. I t I Sunday 2 to 6 P. M. I I GENERAL ADMISSION-75c {with this coupon-SOc) ; r\ 1 1 WASHINGTON AVENUE ARMORY I ALBANY, NEW YORK I ~--------------------~ Board Of Trustees: Union's Policy Shapers by STEVE LEVY Ultimately they are legally responsible for all decisiens concerning the college, accountable to the New York State Board of Regents and suiabl'e for liable or the misappropriation of funds. In fact and practice they are the college's policy makers, whether the ·decision be one of fmances, physical plant, academics, student or alumni affairs, awards New Election Microscope De spite the difficulty encountered by the moving crew in getting it into Bailey Hall several weeks ago, the Biology Department's new electren microscope is now almost ready for full-scale operation. Dr. Paul Urban, who will be in charge of the latest of Union's advanced scientific instruments, noted that instalation is continuing and that a representative from the manufacturer is still cleaning and setting up the microscope. With its eye piece and huge column, the electron microscope vaguely resembles a conventional one; however, the similarity ends there. The remainder of the instrument looks Hke a computer console. Dr. Urban said that this instrument is somewhat versatile, capable of perfonning operations usually done on several different types of electron microscopes. At the moment, Dr. Urban is familiarizing hlmself with the machine and teaching other members of the Biology Department the techniques involved. A course in cytology to be offered in the coming year will include a section on electren microscope techniques, and labs will involve using the machine, Dr. Urban said. Flattered by students' interest in the electron microscope, he nevertheless stated that he would announce in the near future dates Hf several \open houses\ when he will explain to groups of students the functions of the apparatus. He is not giving individual demonstrations now. SKI INSTRUCTORS Weekend positions li.vailable for skiers to inatrlict high school boy'S and tPrls. Prior in- struction exper1ence not re-; guired. Good compensation. Excellent ski facilities. SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road. New Lebanon. N., Y. Lebanon Springs (N.'f.) 7-125!i ·. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. olso THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 and honors or development and long range planning. Known as the Board of Trustees, meeting. as a whole only three times a year, this group of twenty-four men must debate, research, and then pass fmal decision on such questions as the future size of Union College, what academic programs will be stressed and whether Union should become a coeducational institution. No Vote On Co-Ed The Board will meet in Schenectady on November 8 and 9. Committee meetings will be held on Friday and the board's committees will meet with various faculty committees that ha v·e student members. On Saturday the entire board will meet and the topic of great discussion will be long range projections of the college's size. President Martin cited that until future size is determined \we can't begin to talk about coeducation or about building.\ Martjn said he definitely did not expect a vote on coeducation at this meeting since the board feels there is at present insufficient study, no accurate student response, and no alumni response. Alumni response is not expected until after the mailing of Symposium. Martin said the Board must consider the cost, size, tradition, and how the national welfare would be affected should Union become co-ed. According to Martin the earliest possible date would be the fall of 1970. Would Martin Resign? The president is the college's link with the Board of Trustees. He is responsible for providing them with agenda and materials, reporting to them, making recommendations, and acting as their Chief Executive Officer. Martin commented that most of his recommendations have been approved by the board and he feels he has \a good working relationslrip with the board.\ ·:: ::!nolisli lLmlLn~r~ ~~r me~ who want to bJ wtrera ·th& action i~. vary scflUssy< V~rY mas• · ttJ1fii<t 'Att.:~PURP'OSE ~'61'1'¢N~ '$2.50, $4.00+ $11.50. Frpm::i~ec~m~· plete atre~y of ENGU$H~tft.A:Tf.ltil~ .. men'$ toiletries.· · · · · .. ~,· · \· '' · · A PRoOucr Of MEM to~ANV: .. INc·.;·:~ORT~v~LE. ~.\J. ~~7 TIME CENTER JEWELERS Your Authorized Keepsake Dealers Any Questions? Call fR 4-0183 428 STATE STREET Martfn approves of coeducation with one reservation, \provided it can be developed without predictable damage to certain academic strengths.\ When asked how he'd feel if the board did vote against coeducation he commented he would \not resign on the co-ed issue, because I can't convince myself the college will fall apart if it does not become co-ed.\ He does feel that there would be an overall academic gain from coeducation, but at present has no idea of how board members feel. Martin also said he expected that students and alumni would tend to favor remaining all male. He was surprised by the faculty's reaction. He sees no disadvantage in the number of students applying to Union in the next five years if it remains a single sex school but doesn't know what the effect would be in ten years. This was also his attitude toward size increase, yet he thought that if the past is any indication, Union will increase in size. Union's enrollment has increased about fifty percent in the last ten years. Next Meeting January After this weekend's meeting o~ the board the entire group wtll not meet again until Perfect symbol January. The execut1ve committee of the board which consists of the Chairman and Vice Chairman, the committee chairmen and three other members, however, meets monthly. The executive committee is empowered to make decisions with the exception of expanding the budget or changing the by-laws. The President noted however that major policy decisions such as coeducation are decided by the entire board. Thus January would be the earliest date for a vote on co-ed. The board's twenty-four members are broken down into II life trustees elected to that position by the board upon recommendation of its Nominations Awards and Honors Committee, 9 term trustees also elected by the board and 4 alumni trustees elected by the alumni. The number of life trustees will be reduced to 8. Board meetings thus far have been closed meetings and minutes have not been made public. Any decision to change this policy must come from the Board. Martin cited that the University of Pennsylvania opened its board meetings with poor results. Interruptions forced the board to hold Executive Sessions. of the love you share Being with each other, doing things together ... knowing that your affection is growing into precious and enduring love. Happily, al_l these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your dmnond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake, is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler will assist you in making your selection ... He's in the yellow pages, under \Jewelers LEE ...-..?- _.... ~c;;ISTERED k ~:12sa· e® DIAMOND RINGS CROWN ROYALTY Rings from $100 to $10,000. Illustrations enlarged to show beauty of detail. ® Tr.~de·mark reg. A. H. Pond Company, Inc., Est. 1892. ~----------------------------~ 1 HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- ! ment and Wedding\ and new 12-page full color folder, both for 1 only 25c. Also, send special offer of beautiful44-page Bride's Book. I F-se I Name'------------------- 1 Address _________________ _ I City __________________ _ I State iP-~~~~--- 1 KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N. Y. 13201 L----------------------------~

Beat Hamilton! Sports .. Concordy What's, it all I \~ l: Gridders Over illiams., 17-7 (Continued from page one) aJ:id Tom Duffy, and inside linebackers Don Demichele and Russ Cicotti. The Williams passing g~me was equally ineffective in the first stanza, o-5, as Demichele and Cicotti reverted to the blitzing tactics which had so unnerved Rochester's Bob Young. Hayes was forced to roll out in the second haJf, where he found more success than in his collapsing pocket. Midway through the secOJ:)d period Pearce began to open up, as he moved his men from their own 21 to the Williams II, completing five passes -including a 32 yarder to Art Jacobs who made a great inside move to take the baH to the Williams 38. MomeHts later, facing a fourth and five from the II, Coach George Flood failed on an enonnous gamble by electing to have Pearce go for the first down, disdaining an almost certain three-point lead. Pearce's pass for Jacobs glanced off the end's hands, and at the end of the half Union had nothing to show for its tremendous '72 Gridders Fall To RPI by WALT SPENCER The 1968 edition of the Union freshmen football team became the first in Coach Bruce Allison's 12 year tenure to go through their four-game schedule without a win. They finished the season Friday with a 1 7 -I 2 loss at the hands of RPI. performance. Willaims momentarily gained the momentum and moved deep into Garnet territory o·n a sixty-yard circle pass to Maitland, which was the extent of their scoring threat in the first half. A fine defensive play by Steve Ciesinski and Dave Gray prevented the Ephman star from breaking the play. Artistically, the first half was an unqualified success, as Union outgained their opponents 239 yeads, to 65 on the ground. Larry Sykes and Jerry Ostrander paced the offensive attack. Sykes carried 23 times Saturday afternoon and picked up 112 yards, and Ostrander had the biggest day of any runner for the Garnet this season as he accumulated 120 yards on 23 rushes. The second half began ominously. Williams took Jim Sabella's kickoff and proceeded to march 6 7 yards in 15 plays with Bobby Quinn turning left end from five yards out for the contest's initial score. Union had dominated, but suddenly fotmd themselves trailing 7-0. This was to be the only lapse of the defense. The Garnet quickly reasserted control of the contest, only to have a fifty yard mar:ch end on a fourth down interception of a Pearce square out in a short yardage situation off of an audible. Union's defense again responded magnificently but the Garnet were soor;~ed forcecl to punt. In the tuming paint of the contest, Rich Swan recovered Bob Nowlan's fumble of Ron MacAvoy's punt on the William 32 at 14:17 of the final period: Moments into the final stanza, Jim Sabella connected on a 47 yead field gpal which brought the count to 7-3. More significantly, the home team had recaptured its drive of the first half which had been dissipated following Coach Flood's fourth down gamhlt> The Garnet now responded to Flood's confidence in them. The defense, led by Paul Ramsey, Monahan, and Duffy forced Williams to punt for the seventh time. With 9:38 left to play Ken Pearce began a 12-play, 69-yard drive which produced the winning score. Pearce, who was 14-29 with three interceptions was sporadically brilliant in the first half, but had difficulty with a big play. The winning drive began with Sykes and Ostrander picking up a first down on the ground. Pearce then began to throw in earnest: five times to Swan. and Split end Rich Swan about to elude the final Ephman defender before scoring the game-winning touchdown during the fourth quarter of Saturday's game. once each to Don Gould and resurgence as a key offensive there was ,one it was the n Ostrander. Facing a thivd and 17 operative with an exciting apparent vulner::~bility of the from the Williams 4 7, Pearce cutback after catching a shmt Garnet to the draw or screen. found Swan on the key play of curl and racing into the end zone The former of tluse possibilities . the year for the Garnet, for his first touchdown of the was handled by the inside '' providing Union with a first year. The score, followed by linebackers, and the defensive TH: VII ''An« By down on the Williams thirty. Sabella's conversion gave Union ~res sure was te>o great for a Following a four yard run by a lead of 10-7 at the five minute screen to hav-e time to form. u ., The And Ostrander, Swan culminated his mark. Each method v-tas used sparingly Levitt will 1 Hockey Club Plans Full Winter Slate by BILL HOLLERAN The Hockey Club held its Williams could not and with I ittle or no ial, WhetheJ exploit any Garnet weakness; if effectiveness. you should you're in th Boot Drops Seventh 11 by MIKE REGER a fine defensive game. The game started as an even contest with both lines hitting hard, as both squads had sustained drives but neither could score. With 12 minutes left in the second period, RPl started to drive for a score. The big play was a sweep by halfback Ken Marra, who gained 14 yards on 29 carries for the day. The TD came with 8:30 on the clock on a 1-yard back by fullback Rich Morris. Barry Fairchild booted the extra point. Jim Sabella booming a record 47-yard field goal for the Garnet's first score against Williams Saturday. Quarterback Ken Pearce holds. ~ first practice of the season last Friday night, as ten club members traveled to the R:P .I. Field House for an informal workout. The team was originally slated to scrimmage an R.P .1. fraternity, but the Engineer frat never made an appearance on the ice, leaving the Garnet pucksters to \hack around\ for an hour. The Garnet varsity socce1 team lost their sixth game in ~ row Saturday, dropping a 3-1 decision to a powerful Trinit) squad. With one game remainin! on the schedule, the Dutchmer stand 3-7. In their f1nal match, the 11 Garnet journey to Clinton, New Yor:k to face a tough Hamilton squad_ The Ct> ntinentals, having ()Tie of their best seasons in . recent years, will be out to a:venge a 4-2 lo~s to Union in last year's contest You are Court of < in August, the trial of criminal co Wirz heade erate pris1 More than l · The trial dismissal Baker. Sin argues, co: tions is irr' In the second half, RPI took the kickoff and again started a march. The Union defense hardened at their own 20 and Fairchild was called in to kick a 32 yard field goal. Runners Tenth In NYS Meet Dutchmen Score The psyched-up Dutchmen then started their own drive, relying on passes from quarterback Bob Schiller to wingback Larry Bloom. The 74 yard drive was capped on Rick Jaszczak's four yard slan.t. Barry Gross's kick was low. RPI scored from the two on a plunge by Morris late in the third period. Fiarchild's kick made it 17·6. The Garnet collected their final score with 4:30 on the clock when Schiller and tight end Jim Niver colaborated on a five yard pass play for the score. The two point try was stopped. Schiller was effective in defeat. He connected on 19 of 29 passes for 204 yards. All three figures were season highs. The freshmen will continue to work with the Varsity over the next two weeks to gain added sea~oning and to become acquainted with the Varsity staff. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. by PAUL FORBES The fast improving varsity cross-country team kept up their new successful ways with an impressive tenth plaee showing in the New York State Cross Country Championships held Saturday at Oswego. The event was won by Brockport. Overall the Union showing was much better than expected. Joe Burgess lead the team ·with a 26th place in the field of ninety runners. Next were Myron Fribush and Terry McManus with Dick Cooperwasser and John Braham the other Union scorers. Unior1 managed to out distance teams from Hartwick, Plattsburg, Binghamton and Oswego. This shows marked improvement over Garnet finishes in the past four years. The Harriers now have a two week rest till the IC4A in New York City. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd~ NOW IN OUR 74th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-891 i The freshmen cross-country team closed out their season on Saturday with a fourth place finish at the State Championships at Oswego. The team was just six points away from second place. Bryant Moeckel finished out a terrific individual season with a ninth place finish. Paul Forbes, Dave Rice, and Keith jamba were next across the line for the ' Garnet placing 17th, 26th, and 27th respectively. Larry Thornton and Tom Klinkow also finished well crossing the line in the number 34 and 38 spots. Overall the frosh season must be looked on as an encouraging note for next year's varsity comeback. ~For three Generations.' Those Who Know ... Have been recommending - Although the team's chances look bright this year, delays in getting practice started are sure to dim them. Players have been slow in getting their equipment tip to Union, and an order of sticks and goalie equipment is late in arriving from New York City. Such delays caused the first practice to be postponed for a week. In addition; the practice slated for this Saturday night at R.P.I. will probably not be held, because few players can be expected to forsake their dates and Judy Collins to play hockey. After Fall Weekend, however, practice should get into high gear, as the Garnet sextet resumes its quest for a winning season and hockey respectability. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ~~3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY The Bantams jumped out to a 2-0 lead at halftime on the ~---------­ strength of goals by Don Johnson and Al Gibby during the second period. As in the Colgate game, soph Chris Swan scored the only Garnet tally, his goal coming in the third period. Johnson closed out the scoring for Trinity with his second goal of the game late in the third quarter. Chris Carsonis played the entire game in the goal for Union displaying his finest effort thus far this season. Left halfback Andy Sherman played Ae:me Barber Shop 509 Unjon Street Experie11c~cf Barbers Nearest to l.Jnion College Stude11ts DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap ROOIWI Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STRfET Vinitk5 Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street at Lafayette Park &c Shop Free Peaking \ f The moti quickly mo· cession of tion. The !' habitation. farce. Pris, A living 1 corpses. The evid denied. But He was fol Which he ba The judg Chipman, l A· ·.beyond dm with his ha the moral c By The flag like a yo-y } i and Richar About 30 at half-rna: Nam war, t •J -\and five 01 No sooner few other : why they w' ted variou debate. As alar! was raise< I} • There wer agreement The only i and respe addressed About 5! was obviou erect his ' ~ iJ · · son in ViE anything b~ not provin put it up.\ The flag

Beat Hamiltonl Concordy Sports Wh·at's it all about, Alfie? Gridders Over (Ct>ntinllt'd from p~t!.'l' <>llt') :rnd Tt>lll lluft\. and msi<ll' linehach•t, [)pn ·lkrniL·ild~· and Russ <'tL'<llli lh~· Wilknm passin~ ~alllt' was ''qll~dl:. int'llect in· in t lw fit sr sLtlll~l. 11-:'. as lkrntchl'i~' <tlld ('t<..:<lili lt'\t'tll'U 1<1 tilt' h[itlllli.! t~i<..:IIU whiL·h h:1d s<> ur'rnerwd Rtll.:ht')(t'r-, lhl\1 l\lllll~. ILt~L'~ \\a~ fllll't'd Ill wll out 111 the SL'L't>nd hall·. whert' lrt' !t>Uild llHlrt' >lll'L'L'SS tklll Ill hi> l'llllap'illl~~ jll ld;L't \lid\\a\ thro~Jl!h thL' ;l'L'l>lld [ll'r i11d 1\.:un' bq::111 111 <>JWll up. as lw lllu\'l'd lm lliL'Il ftt>lll till' ir uwn 21 111 tlrL' Wrlli;rlm II. L·lltllpktirr~ fiw pas~c~ .incltrdrn~ a 32 :. ardc1 tn -\rt .l;rcllh, \lilt> lllade \~real tm-Jde 1non· 111 t.rkc thl' hall 111 tilt' \\ dlrallb _;;-. \lntllt'lltS [atn. facilli.! a flltlltlr and flw fnlln tire -, I. Cu;rL·h (;~'Ur!!l' [·llH>d f~till'J llll all t'JlllrJllous e:.unbll' bv l'lectim: t11 have Pc:u~-l' gu r:n t lrc t'irst dPwn. di-;dair.rill!! an alnlllSt ...:ertJill three-point lead. PL'Jrce 's pass for Jacnhs ~lanceJ off the end\ hand~. and at thl' cnd uf tire half lni\n had nuthin!..! tu siluw fur it~ t rl'llll.'tlJ,llh '72 Gridders Fall To RPI by WALT SPENCER p v r t \ 1 111 :1 11 l. L' . \\' i II a i m s mollll'lltatil\ eaineJ the rJlt>lllt'n t till! aird ·llH>ved Jeep intu (;;unt'! tL'rritur:- un ct Si\d~ ·:- arJ ...:irL·k pass t11 \bitlanu. \\ l11ch was the t'Xtca1 nt thL'II Sc'lltinl! tlllL'at in thL' !Irs, !tall. ,\ fint• .dd'-'nsi\l' pia~ b:-.- Ste\L' Cies!llskr and Dave (;rav ptt'\l'llll'd tlrl' l plrrmn st:11 !'rt>r;r hlt':tkur~ tilt' pia~. .\rtisticall:., tht' first half was a11 llllljtlal ifil·d sllCt'l'Ss. a> L 1 niun •>Ut!!.tllk'd tllt'il oppunettts 2Jl) \t·ads, !.1> o5 \n tire !Lruund. 't ~Ill\ S\1-..l'S and Jl'll\ o;trandl·r pa ct;d - t!tt' offl'llSI.W at tack. S1 kcs carrtl'd 2J times Saturda\ :ri·IL'IIHH>n and piL'kl'li up 112 ~:trlb. and <lstr:rndt'I had tht• bts;:est d:r~ nf an~ IUtllll'r fur the Carnt't tllr~ ~t'Jst>ll as ht..' JCt.:llllllliatcd 120 \ atds 011 2.3 rushcs. Tilt' secnnd half be~an uminousl\. Williams tuok Jilll Sabella's ·kickoff and procecJeJ tu march (17 ~ards in 15 plays with Bobh) Quinn turni11~ left end from five vards out fl)r the ...:nntl'St's initial-scorl'. llnil>llllaU dominateJ. but sudden!\ found thernsclws trailine 7-0. This was to bt• the \nl:. · lapse uf the dl'fensc. The Carne! quickly reasserted control of the cuntest. onl\ tu have a tift\ \ani march 1.' 11 j l) ll J r \) ll r-1 h d \) w n interc~:?ption <>f ~~ l\·~nce squart' out in a short \3rda~e situation off pf an audihl~. • L n i un's ddense again respl)nJcd ma!!nilkcnt.l~ but the Carne! were suuncd forced to punt. In the turning point of H!l' ...:un test. Rich S\\'an recovered Boh :\mvlan's fumble of Ron \lac-\m:. 's punt on the Willi~m 32 at l-l:l7oftlil'finalpt:Iiod. ~luments intu tltc final stJn;a, Jim Sabella cunn~cted on a ...J.7 \cad field f.':llal which bmu<>ht ihc count to 7-3. \l~rc significantly. the hume team h:.rJ recaptured its drive of the first half which had been dissipated full owing Cuach 1: loud's fourth down l!a~ll hit' Tile Camet nuw responded tu l·luoJ's cunf'idcncc in tlrem. The defense. led bv Paul Rarnsev, !\lonuhan. anL.I' Duff\' forced Williums to punt ltH tlie seventh tiHll'. With 9:3X l~ft to plav Ken Pearce began a 12-play. (>Li.yarJ dri1c which produced tire winnin~ score. Pearce. who was 1-l-29 with three interceptions was sporadically brilliant in the first half. but had difficult\ with abi~play. - Tlie winning drive began with Sy k.es :md Ostrander picking up a first Jown t)Jl the ground. Pearce then begun to throw in eamest: five times to Swan. ami illiams~ 17-7 t~•' / ~~ .·Iii!:>\·;~:-· A ->.lillt·~-'lt Split end Rich Swan alli)Ut to elude the final Ephman defender before scoring the game-winning touchdown during the fourth quarter of Saturday's game. once each to Don Gould anc.l resurgence as a key offensive there was one it was the Ostrander. Facing a third anJ 1 7 operative with an exciting apparent vulnerability of the from the Williams 47, Pearce cutback after catching a short Garnet to the draw or screen. ., ill' jlJ(1K cJilion of the l 'nion freshmen football tcaill bt'L'alllL' the first in Coach Bruce Allison's l :2 \Car tenure to ;;_t> t h r n udr their fuur-!.!:.tl;ll' schedule \\ ithout a win. ·The\ finished the ~easun 1-riJay with -a 17-12 l1>~s e~t the hands ol !WI. found Swan on the key play of curl and racing into theL end zone The former of these possibilities ~ the vcar for the Garnet. for his first touchdown of the was handled by the inside providing Union with a first vear. The score, followed bv linebackers, and the defensive down on the Williams thirty. Sabella's conversion gave Union pressure was too great for a Following a four yard run by a lead of 10-7 at the five minute screen to have time to form. Ostrander, Swan culminated his mark. Each method was used sparingly Williams could noi and with little or no !'he !!allll' started as an even Cllntest With hoth lint's hitt111e ha rJ. as hoth squads Ira:! sustained drives hut neither could sc<>rL'. \\'itlr 12 miJHitt_'' left in the sewnd periud. Rl'l started to driw for a SCLHI.'. Till' hi~ play was a sweep by hal!back K•:n \larra. wlm !.!;Jincd 14 \ ard, on 2<l carries fu'r the Ja\: Till' Tl> came with X:JO on the clDd on a l-\ard had-.; h\ fullhrd R.rL·h \lorrrs. Bam· Fait...:hilJ hooted the extra poi;lt. In till' ~cwnd half. Rl'l tol1k the kicl-.<>fl arrd al!ain started J m;nch. The L'r'1iun defense hardened at therr mqr 20 mJ Fairchild was called 111 tn kick a 32:. ard lleld !!oal. Dutchmen Score Tht' ps~ ched-up Dutchmen then starll'd their o\\ n dnve. rl'l) in_l! \n passes !\rom quarterback Bub Schiller lo win~back Lam Bloom. The 7-1 y ard drive wa~ ca ppcd on R a.:k Jas;oak's four vard slant. Barn (;ross's kick was-lmv. - RPI scored from t hL' two on a plun!!e hy \1orris late in the third pcrind. Fiarchild's kick made it 17-h. The (;arnet colb:ted their lin~il score with 4:30 on the dock when Schiller and tight em! Jim \liv cr colahorated on a five yard pass pia:-. for the score. The two point try \\a' 'topped. Schiller was effective in defeat. lie connected on I q of 29 passe~ for 204 yards. :'\ll three tlgures were season highs. The freshmen will continue to work with the Varsity over tlr~ next two weeks to I! a in adtkJ s c a~ on in!' and t ;> bee nlliL' acquainted with the V:mi 11 staff. Down to Louts', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. ~~~ :.:. -/~~ lio.\~_., :: T\ -.;./ .. - .. . ~- ··-~ ~~-- ... -= -- ~ - : . ... ~ \:\\~ . < ' •. -~~ ~;;: . --~ • .. • . ·- .~. ---~ .,._\\'·\\·\\'F\\'*>r;--,~~ ......... ' • lw~~~ t~ • • <l.., ¥' ~~,.,..:~· .. \ iii!''*•\~ Jim Sabella booming a record 47-yard field goal for the Garnet's first score against Williams Saturday. Quarterback Ken Pearce holds. Runners Tenth In NYS Meet by PAUL FORBES rlre fast improvm)! varsity cross·cuuntry team kept up their new succt'ssful wavs with an imprc'ssive tenth pl:tce slrmvin!' in lhl' \lew Yt1rk Stall' Cross C'ountr) Ch:.unpionships held Saturday at Oswego. The event was won b) Brockport. Overall the Lnilln 1 slwwing w~s much bet t cr than expected. Joe Burgess lead tli.e team \Vith a 26th place in the field of nine! y runners. \!ext were \lvmn l-rihush and TerrY \k\1anus with Dick Cooperwasser and John Braham the other l'nion scorers. l 1 nion managed to out distance team~ from : brtwick. Plat Is bur!!. Bingham ton and Oswe~o. This shows marked improvement over (;arne! finishes in the past four years. The Harriers now have a two \\'L'ek rest till the IC4A in 'Jew York City. The freshmen cross-countrv team closed out their season 0;1 Saturday with a fourth place finish at the ~tate Championships at Oswego. The team was just six points away from second plicc. Bryant l\1ol'ckel flnish~d out a terrific individual season with a ninth place finish. Paul Forbes. Duve Rke, and Kci th J amba were next across tl1e line for the Garnet placing 17th, 26th. and 27th respectively. Larry Tlwrnton and Torn Klinkow also finished well crossing the line in the number 34- and JR spots. Overall the frosh season must be looked on as an encouraging note for next year's varsity comeback. 1 For threE Generations.' rhose Who Know Hockey Club Plans Full Winter Slate by BILL HOLLERAN The flockev Club held its first pruct icc <;f the season last Fridav night. as ten club members tr;veled to the R.P.I. Field !louse for an informal workout. The team was originally slated to scrimmage an R.P .I. fraternity. but the l·ngineer frat never made an appearance on the icc. leaving the Garnet pucksters t ll \hack around\ for an hour. Although the team's chances look bright this year. delays in getting practice started arc sure to dim them. Plavers have been slow in getting tl1eir equipment up to Llninn, and an order of sticks and goalie equipment is late in arriving from New York City. Such delays caused the first practice to be postponed for a week. In addition, the practice slated for this Saturday night at R.P .I. will probably not be held. because few players can be expected to forsake their dates and Judy Collins to play hockev. After Fall Weekend howe~er, practice should get into high gear, as the Garnet sextet resumes its quest for a winning season and hockey respectability. A unique place to dine 'With old European Atmosphere Have been recommending - NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT· Si.nce 1895- Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER 'jj3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' NOW IN OUR Hth YEAR 166JAYST. For reservatic>ns phone FR 4-891 i FOR HON'EST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY explo.it any Garnet weakness: if effectiveness. -B.oot Drops Seventh r ' by MIKE REGER The Camet varsity socce team lost their sixth game in < row Saturday, dropping a 3-1 decision to a powerful Trinit} squad. With one game remaininf on the schedule, the Dutchmer standJ-7. The Ban tams j urnped out to a a fine defensive game. In their final match, the Carnet journey to Clinton, New York to face a tough Hamilton squad. The Continentals, having one of their best seasons in recent years, will be out to avenge a 4-2 loss to Union in last year's contest. 2-0 lead at halftime on the ,------------- strength of goals by Don Johnson and AI Gibby during the second period. As in the Colgate game, soph Chris Swun scored the only Garnet tally, his goal coming in the third period. Johnson closed out the scoring for Trinity with his second goal of the game late in the third quarter. Chris Carsonis played the entire game in the goal for Union displaying his finest effort thus far this season. Left halfback Andy Sherman played Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food ond Legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREET Vinirks Men's Shop Specialists 1n Colleg1ate Wear 514 State Street ot L o foy ette Pork & Shop Free Porking ' { 1-,~ PE Pf Tf VI ·~t '\An Ethi The An Levitt will ial. Whetht you shoul 't you're in t You are Court of in August, t the trial e criminal c Wirz head erate pri: ,t More than The trh dismissal Baker. Si argues, c• tions is ir. The mo• quickly m< \ cession ol tion. The habitation. farce. Pri ' A living corpses. The evi denied. Bu < He was fc which he t The jud Chipman, ' beyond de with his h the moral Bl The fla€ like a yo- ' and Richa About 3 at half-m: Nam war, and five c No soone: few other ~ why they' ted varia I , debate. As a lru was rais1 I ' There we ,{ agree men The only and resp addressee About l was obvio erect his son in V: anything 1 not provi put it up.• The flat

I ?: -winning the n of the screen. inside ,., for a \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ Talent Show 7:00 Tonh1ht Founded at Union College 1877 ·-·~ PHIL RICE AND HARRY MILLER AS THEY REHEARSE FOR THE MOUNTEBANKS' PRODUCTION OF \THE ANDERSON- VILLE TRIAL\. ''Anderson ville Trial'' Presents Question On Orders By Paul Andrews SCHENECTADY, N.Y., NOVEMBER 8, 1968 PRICE TWENTY CENTS ACC Social Regulations Panel Convenes To Debate Changes The ACC Committee on Social Rules met yesterday to discuss the possibility of changing the current parietal hours to a system ofparietalhours decidedby . each individual living unit. The com- mittee is chaired by Neal Gordon '69, one of two student members at large of the ACC. Jeff Kurzius '69 and Craig Carlson '70 are the other two student members. Prof. Sherwood Fox of the sociology department and Miss Parker of the philosophy department are the two faculty members, while assistant dean of students, Richard Lucas, represents the administration. Student Poll Jeff Kurzius will distribute a ques- tionnaire to 150 students on Monday to discover the temper of the student body regarding a change in parietal hours. D. Peter Drotman, co-editor of the Concordy has been asked by the committee to survey other schools similar to union to investigate their social rules, Craig Carlson will speak with the resident advisors, house presidents, and student leaders to determine their ideas on the subject, Neal Gor- don, student council president Rusty Manker and Jim Stillman have been asked to meet with president Martin, Dean Malloy, Mrs. Conable, counselor to students, Dean Lichterman, and Dean Palmer to find out how the adminis- tration feels about the proposed system. The committee is scheduled to meet on Monday, Nov. 18, to analyze the information gathered and .formulate a proposal to be presented to the ACC on Wednesday, N!ilv. 20 • Jim Stillman, student council vice- president -wrote a statement, expres- sing his views on the issue, which has been endo.rsed by Neal Gordon, and Rusty Manker, The statement follows: The question of student determin- ation of parietal hours is a very com- plicated one. The issue at the core of the problem is to what extent students may g()vern their social behaviorwhi:le in college. The Student Life Guide given to all students at registration says: Union College believes that the college years are a time In which a young man must prepare for adult responsibility by learn- ing to govern and discipline himself. The College, its facul- ty, and his fellow students stand not in place of his parents, guiding and controlling, but in place of society, judging the individual by his own acts. In all matters of academic and personal conduct the College strongl)' emphasizes individual responsibility for individual acts. It seems paradoxical that the Col- lege issue a statement which em- phasizes individual responsibility and, at the same time, allow students to J)lay no part in determining the rules which affect his social behavior. Pre-Judgment By setting tip prescribed parietal hours the College is pre- judging the student by inferring that he is not a responsible person. The College Bul- letin says that \Union College is an independent, undergraduate, residen- tial college for men of high academic promise and strong personal motiva- tion. \ Does the College lack faith in such individuals in the matter of soci- al conduct? Under the proposed system, each individual living unit by a three-quar- ters vote would decide what hours the parietals would be in .effect. In this way each student would have a part in determining the rules which gov- ern his social behavior. It would be foolish to deny that practical problems will arise in the proposed system. However, the ACC committee on Social Rules should be able to propose a system which is fair to both students and faculty and administration. The new system could be carried out as an experiment. A committee, formed when the rules went into effect, could re-evaluate the system in six months and suggest revision or even a return to the pres- ent system. form. u ., The Andersonville Trial by Saul Levitt will play six days atNottMemor- ial, Whether you're a theater fan or not, you shouldn't miss it. Technically, you're in the play anyway. Should the issue o:f the morality, or lack thereof, of Wirz's decision to \follow orders\ -and disregard his conscience-be introduced to the trial? Traditionally courts steer away from considering questions involving per- sonal conscience. Chipman's final de- cision provides the chief motif for the play. Committee Revising Constitution By Harris Ginsberg The comrnittee also emphasized that there would be more power exerted by the IndeiJendents and the Inter-Fra- ternity Co u n c u 1 ~<upon their own affairs. • The group proposed that in addition to the existing Court of Appeal, a new judicial board should be estab- lished to govern social rules. A number of other colleges have instituted or are currently conducting experiments in the area of student determination of social rules. Wesleyan University in Middleto-wn, Conn.. instituted a system similar to the one proposed by the council three weeks ago. An experiment is being conducted at the Claremont Complex in California in which a dormitory floor houses both men and women students. or no the 11 on, New s, having in · out to in last \ f A· II , You are seated in The United States Court of Claims, Washington, D.C,, in August, 1865. You are witnessing the trial of Henry Wirz, charged with criminal conspiracy -including murder. Wirz headed Andersonville, a confed- erate prison during the Civil War. ~ore than 14,000 prisoners died there. The trial begins with a request for dismissal by Defense Attorney otis Baker. Since the war is over, Baker argues, consideration of the accusa- tions is irrelevant. The motion is denied, and the trial quickly moves to an interminable suc- cession of witnesses for the prosecu- tion. The prison was unfit for human habitation. Medical attention was a farce. Prisoners were treated brutally. A living hell populated by almost- corpses. The evidence is plain and not to be denied. But Wirz has pleaded not guilty. He was following orders-orders over which he had no controL The judge advocate, Lt. Col. N. P. Chipman, knows that Wirz's guilt is ·.beyond doubt, But he is dissatisfied with his handling of the case. There is the moral question. The play, underHenryWeil's capable direction,. features fine performances from all the actors who are for the most part perfectly at home in their roles. Philip Rice as the defense attorney and Michael Riley as Wirz deliver out- standing performances. Also extremely effective iil their roles are Andre-w Anderson as the terse, perfunctory physician Dr. c. M. Ford, and Peter Feldstein as Jasper Culver 1 a benign half-wit. Both Feldstein's ludicrous physical appearance and his mastery of the nuance lend comic relief to an otherwise morbidly sober play. Cos turning also is effective, as is the staging and lighting simulatingacourt- wom situation. Weil is to be con- gratulated in his first production at Union. The play can be viewed on several levels. It is an allegory of the Vietnam war and the draft, or Nazi Germany, or the integrity ofthe human conscience up against military authority. In the end, far more tl1an Andersonville is on trial Seeking to form a more viable, representative student government, a committee of Union students is re- writing the existing Student Body con- stitution. Chairing the committee is Lance Spallhotz, aided by Danny Aronzon, Bill Dawson, Neal Gordon, Rusty Man- ker, Dan Mead, Ray Pike, Stu Rubin, Walt Spenser, Jim Stillman, Ed Val- entine, Craig Youner, and others. The new constitution would elimin- ate the lack of co-operation between committees of the Student Council, the All-College Council, the Inter~Fra­ ternity Council, and separate class governments. Insuring that there would be no more tediffuse\ investigations of segregated groups, the constitution committee stressed that each student would have a representation in decision-making.\ Everyone wouldpull together to find solutions.\ The group has also discussed the creation of a student senate. It would be composed of members from every living unit on campus. All members would be elected and would be respon- sible to the students whom they rep- resent. Their votes would not be per- sonal opinions, but a consensus of their constituents. US Flag Goes Up And Down_ By Danny Shocket and a number of people were moved to diverse attitudes of the Half-flagger~. . The flag Wednesday wentupan_ddown make speeches. We must unify behind The half-flaggers couldn't get their llke a yo-yo, people argued m cll'cles, one idea. \It is our country right or opposition to understand the politics and Richard Nixon is President-elect. wrong\ was contrasted by \fu January of 11 do your own thing.\ About 30 students lowered the flag we can take a page in Concordy of The demonstration, counter-demon- at half-mask in m~urnin~ of the ,Viet people who will say they will not go.\ stration and debate went onforanhour. Nam war, theelectlonofRlchardN1Xon, Full-flaggers had difficulty arguing Reassured of their convictions, every- -' and five or six other· national blights. because they could not cope with the one went back to the dorms. No sooner was the flag down than a few other students objected, Not sure why they were objecting, they formula- ted various opinions in the ensuing debate. As a larger crowd gathered, the flag was ra,ised and lowered continually. There were times the intellectual dis- agreement threatened to get physical The only time the crowd was hushed and respectful was when they were addressed by a campus policeman. About 55 years old, the policeman was obviously emotional when he deliv- ered his •speech.\ \Boys I have a son in Viet Nam. You're not proving anything by lowering the flag. You're not proving anything. Please, Please put it up.\ The flag continued to go up and down PHOTO BY RICH KRAMER Another issue concerns the voice of the students in student-faculty com- mittees. The new constitution will state that a. student must be assured an equal vote in all dec.isions of policy. Why does Union like to claim to be an i!lllovafor in the academic field, while being a Victorian in the area of student conduct? Union Considers· FM Station As WRUC Renovates Studio The question of whether Union Col- lege will be able to build and operate an FM radio station will come under serious consideration next week. Bob Killian, president of Union's student AN station WRUC, will go before the Trustees to the College to petition for their endorsement of the project. A sizable grant has been left to the Trustees for use by the station. How- ever, the decision may be made to earmark the money for the costs involved ill moving the station to the new student center to be constructed behind Carnegie Hall. Charlie Cusimano, Station Manager of WRUC, said that if Union is ever to have an FM station, 11 it must be now or never. 01 The number of avail- able :frequencies is rapidly decrea- sing.\ Planning Story An FM station has been in the plan- ning stage for at least three years. During the summer, a second broad- casting studio was created with the idea ()f use for FM broadcasting. Programming would follow the con- temporary music theme that has be- come the mainstay ·Of the WRUC AlVI, No contemporary FM station now exists, and the potential of such a station in the area could make it a very profitable undertaking. The sta- tion would also be an outlet for the most talented of the student disc joc- keys and· enhance the prestige of the college. Even before word has been received from the Trustees, WRUC staff mem- bers have gone abead with improve- ments with the station. During !he summer, two studios were renovated both of wllich are now capable ofbroad- casting. New panelling has been added and new rugs are soon to be layed - .. down in the halls and in the studios. Improvements are also scheduled for the lounge off the record library. Ad Bureau The renovations also include new equipment for a production studio that may be also used on a rental basis by a local advertising agency. The agen- . cy would use local talent and may be a good source of income not only for the station but also for Union students. The station also reports that its new freshman recruits are working in very weli. In addition to the many freshmen who al-ways sign up to be disc jockeys, quite a few have also shown an inter- est in the technical department. TALENT SHOW TONIGHT \People who don't show up will miss the chance of a lifetime,\ said Don K e s s 1 e r about the Union-Skidmore Talent Show which will feature the Cod Piece Band, a take-off on Tiny Tim, four folksingers and a singer from Skidmore. The show will be held tonight at 7:00 in Memorial Chapel, Admission is free. Folksingers performing are JimTal- bert, Paul Bussman, Ted Linsey and John Nickoway. The Cod Piece is a comedy oriented jug band. Barbara Nathensan is tht;J singer from Skid- more, Master of ceremonies for the show will be Pete Tierney, CONCERT TOMORROW «I would say that anybody who gets there ten or fifteen minutes early is asking to stand,\ was Sophomore Class President Bill Dawson's way of explain- ing the implications of the large ticket sales to the Judy Collins Concert to talte place tomorrow night in Memorial Chapel.

\A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ ,-------·~ Talent Show 7:00 Tonl •. ht ,----------------------------------A_o_u_n_de_d __ a_t __ UJ_n_w_n __ O_o_l_k_g_e_l_8_7_7 ________________________________ __ PRICE TWENTY CENTS Vol. 98 No. 12 'l 11 : ~ 'c r J 'Ill \'\\~ r£1 ~- \' ' .. SCHENECTADY, N.Y., NOVEMBER 8, 1968 ACC Social Regulations Panel Convenes To Debate Changes The ACC Committee on Social Rules met yesterday to discuss the possibility of changing the current parietal hours to a system of parietal hours decidEd by each individual living unit. The com- mittee is chaired by Neal Gordon' ()9, one of two student members at large of the AC c. Jeff Kurzius '69 and Craig Carlson '70 are the other two student members. Prof. Sherwood Fox of the sociology department and Miss Parker of tl1e philosophy department are the two faculty members, while assistant rlean of students, Richard Lucas, represents the administration. Student Poll The committee is scheduled to meet on Monday, Nov. 18, to analyze thE' information gathered and formulate a proposal to be presented to the ACC on Wednesday, Nov. 20. Jim Stillman, student council vice- president wrote a statement, ex pres- sing his views on the issue, whir·h ha.s been endorsed by Neal Gordon, and Rusty Manker. The statement follows: The question of student determ in- ation of parietal hours is a very com- plicated one. The 1ssue at the corP of the problem is to what extent student.s may govern their social behavior while in college. The Student Life Guide given to all students at registration says: :Play no part tn dett>rm1ning the rules which affect his social behavior. j:lre-Judgm ent By setting up pre~cribed parietal hours the College 1s pre- judging the student by in! erring that he is not a responsible person. The College Bul- letm says that \Union College is an mdependent, under~raduate, residen- tial college for men or ln~h academic promise and stron~ pt>rsonal motiva- twn. \ Does the Colle~e laek faith in such individuals m the matter of soci- al conduct? Under the proposed system, each individual 1i ving unit by a three-quar- ters vote would decide what hours the parietals would be in effect. In this way each student would have a part m determmin£: the rulPs which gov- ern his social behavior. J.llll ' . .. ' ~ti:. Jeff Kurzius will distribute a ques- tionnaire to 150 students on Monday to discover the temper of the student body regarding a change in parietal hours. D. Peter Drotman, co-editor of the Concordy has been asked by the committee to survey other schools similar to union to investigate their social rules. Union College believes that the college years are a time in which a young man must prepare for adult responsibility by learn- ing to govern and discipline himself. The College, its facul- ty, and his fellow students stand not in place of his parents, guiding and controlling, but in place of society, judging the individual by his own acts, In all matters of academic and personal conduct the College strongly emphasizes individual responsibility for individual acts. It would bl:' foolt ... h to deny that practical problems will arbe in the proposed system. However, the ACC committee on Social Rules should be able to propose a system which is fair to both students and faculty and administration. The new system could be carried out as an experiment. A committee, formed when the rules went into effect, could re-evaluate the system in six months and suggest revision or even a return to the pres- ent system. e-winning was the of the screen. ties inside defensive for a to form. sparingly or no the New Hamilton having in out to ion in last of lege .l PHIL RICE AND HARRY MILLER AS THEY REHEARSE FOR THE MOUNTEBANKS' PRODUCTION OF \THE ANDERSON- VILLE TRIAL\'. ·~'\Anderson ville Trial~~ Presents , Ethical Question On Orders Craig Carlson will speak with the resident advisors, house presidEflts, and student leaders to determifle their ideas on the subject. Neal Gor- don, student council president RllSty :Manker and Jim Stillman have been asked to meet with president Martin, Dean Malloy, Mrs. Conable, counselor to students, Dean Lichterman, and Dean Palmer to find out how the adminis- tration feels about the proposed system. It seems paradoxical that the Cal- lege issue a statement which em- phasizes individual responsibility and, at the same time, allow students to By Paul Andrews The Andersonville Trial by Saul Levitt will play six days at Nott Memor- ial. Whether you're a theater fan or not, you shouldn't miss it. Technically, Should the issue of the morality, or lack thereof, of Wirz' s decision to \follow orders\ -and disregard his conscience-be introduced to the trial? Traditionally courts steer away from considering questions involving per- sonal conscience. Chipman's final de- cision provides the chief motif for the play. Committee Revising Constitution A number of other colleges have instituted or are currently conducting experiments in the area of student determination of social rules. 't you're in the play anyway. You are seated in The United States Court of Claims, Washington, D.C,, in August, 1865. You are witnessing t the trial of Henry Wirz, charged with criminal conspiracy-including murder. Wirz headed Andersonville, a confed- erate prison during the Civil War. ,t More than 14 1 000 prisoners diedthere. The trial begins with a request for dismissal by Defense Attorney Otis Baker. Since the war is over, Baker argues, consideration of the accusa- tions is irrelevant. The motion is denied, and the trial quickly moves to an interminable sue- \ cession of witnesses for the prosecu- tion. The prison was unfit for human habitation. Medical attention was a farce. Prisoners were treated brutally. • A living hell populated by almost- corpses. The evidence is plain and not to be denied. But Wirz has pleaded not guilty. < He was following orders-orders over which he had no control. The judge advocate, Lt. Col. N. P. Chipman, knows that Wirz's guilt is ' beyond doubt. But he is dissatisfied with his handling of the case. There is the moral question. The play, under Henry Weil's capable direction, features fine performances from all the actors who are for the most part perfectly at home in their roles. Philip Rice as the defense attorney and Michael Riley as Wirz deliver out- standing performances. Also extremely effective in their roles are Andrew Anderson as the terse, perfunctory physician Dr. C. M. Ford, and Peter Feldstein as Jasper Culver, a benign half-wit. Both Feldstein's ludicrous physical appearance and his mastery of the nuance lend comic relief to an otherwise morbidly sober play. Cos turning also is effective, as is the staging and lighting simulating a court- room situation. Weil is to be con- gratulated in his first production at Union. The play can be viewed on several levels. It is an allegory of the Vietnam war and the draft, or Nazi Germany, or the integrity of the human conscience up against military authority. In the end, far more than Andersonville is on trial. By Harris Ginsberg Seeking to form a more viable, representative student government, a committee of Union students is re- writing the existing Student Body con- stitution. Chairing the committee is Lance Spallhotz, aided by Danny Aronzon, Bill Dawson, Neal Gordon, Rusty Man- ker, Dan Mead, Ray Pike, Stu Rubin, Walt Spenser, Jim Stillman, Ed Val- entine, Craig Youner, and others. The new constitution would elimin- ate the lack of co-operation between committees of the Student Council, the All-College Council, the Inter-Fra- ternity Council, and separate class governments. Insuring that there would be no more \diffuse\ investigations of segregated groups, the constitution committee stressed that each student would have a representation in decision-making.\ Everyone would pull together to find solutions.\ The group has also discussed the creation of a student senate. It would be composed of members from every living unit on campus. All members would be elected and would be resr><>n- sible to the students WhOm they rep- resent. Their votes would not be per- sonal opinions, but a consensus of their constituents. US Flag Goes Up And Down By Danny Shocket and a number of people were moved to diverse attitudes of the Half-flagger~. The flag Wednesday went up and down make speeches. We must unify behind The half-flaggers couldn't get their like a yo-yo, people argued in circles, one idea. •It is our country, right or opposition to understand the politics ' and Richard Nixon is President-elect. wrong\ was contrasted by \In January of •do your own thing,\ About 30 students lowered the flag we can take a page in Concordy of The demonstration, counter-demon- at half-mask in mourning of the Viet people who will say they will not go.\ stration and debate went on for an hour. Nam war, theelectionofRichardNixon, Full-flaggers had difficulty arguing Reassured of their convictions, every- and five or six other national blights. because they could not cope with the one went back to the dorms. No sooner was the flag down than a few other students objected. Not sure ~ why they were objecting, they formula- ted various opinions in the ensuing debate. As a larger crowd gathered, the flag was raised and lowered continually. 1 There were times the intellectual dis- agreement threatened to get physical. The only time the crowd was lmshed and respectful was when they were addressed by a campus policeman. About 55 years old, the policeman was obviously emotional when he deliv- ered his \speech.\ \Boys I have a son in Viet Nam. You're not proving anything by lowering the flag. You're not proving anything. Please, Please put it up.\ The flag continued to go up and down PHOTO BY RICH KHAMER The committee also emphasized that there would be more power exerted by the Independents and the Inter-Fra- ternity Co u n c u 1 \upon their own affairs.~ The group proposed that in addition to the existing Court of Appeal, a new judicial board should be estab- lished to govern social rules. Another issue concerns the voice of the students in student-faculty com- mittees, The new constitution will state that a student must be assured an equal vote in all decisions of policy. Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn. instituted a system similar to the one proposed by the council three weeks ago. An experiment is being conducted at the Claremont Complex in California in which a dormitory floor houses both men and women students. Why does Union like to claim to be an innovator in the academic field, while being a Victorian in the area of student conduct? Union Considers FM Station As WRUC Renovates Studio The question of whether Union Col- lege will be able to build and operate an FM radio station will come under serious consideration next week. Bob Killian, president of Union's student AM station WRUC, will go before the Trustees to the College to petition for their endorsement of the project. A sizable grant has been left to the Trustees for use by the station. How- ever, the decision may be made to earmark the money for the costs involved in moving the station to the new student center to be constructed behind Carnegie Hall. Charlie Cusimano, Station Manager of WRUC, said that if Union is ever to have an FM station, \it must be now or never.\ The number of avail- able frequencies is rapidly decrea- sing.\ Planni~g S1ory An FM station has been in the plan- ning stage for at least three years. During the summer, a second broad- casting studio was created with the idea of use for FM broadcasting. Programming would follow the con- temporary music theme that has be- come the mainstay of the WRUC AM. No contemporary FM station now exists, and the potential of such a station in the area could make it a very profitable undertaking. The sta- tion would also be an outlet for the most talented of the student disc joc- l<eys and enhance the prestige of the college. Even before word has been received from the Trustees, WRllC staff mem- bers have gone ahead with improve- ments with the station. During the summer, two studios were renovated both of which are now capable ofbroad- casting. New pallelling has been added and new rugs are soon to be layed down in the halls and in the studios. Improvements are also scheduled for the lounge off the record library. Ad Bureau The renovauons also include new equipment for a production studio that may be also used on a rental basis by a local advertising agency. The agen- cy would use local talent and may be a good sourre of income not only for the station but also for Union students. The station also reports that its new freshman recruits are working in very well. In addition to the many freshmen who always sign up to be disc jockeys, quite a few have also shown an inter- est in the technical department. TALENT SHOW TONIGHT \People who don't show up will miss the chance of a lifetime,\ said Don Kess 1 e r about the Union-Skidmore Talent Show which will feature the Cod Piece Band, a take-off on Tiny Tim, four folksingers and a singer from Skidmore. The show will be held tonight at 7:00 in Memorial Chapel. Admission is free. Folksingers per forming are Jim Tal- bert, Paul Bussman, Ted Linsey and John Nickoway. The Cod Piece is a comedy oriented jug band. Barbara Nathensan is the singer from Skid- more. Master of ceremonies for the show will be Pete Tierney. CONCERT TOMORROW '\I would say that anybody who gets there ten or fifteen minutes ear1y is asking to stand, • was Sophomore Class President Bill Dawson's way of explain- ing the implirations of the large ticket sales to the Judy Collins Concert to take place tomorrow night in Memorial Chapel.

Qlnnrnr ~itn!ii!l Publt,hf'\d Tut•o.,da\ .H1·1 f-rt.l.t\ .tur- f'dtt-'rl . .tl OfftcP l()ld G~m. L'n1on 1ng ~ht> Sl h ,,,J \ t>dJ t ._ !h ,. St .JI1t•n! Bod-. of L'nl·'nC·dlt·~t\' !'\, ht·nt•, ~.t·l·\ N.Y. !\ictli<_Jndl Ad .. t·rtt .... ln~ kt•prt·~ SPntartvt~ ~atl•>n,,! Fdu, .sll·•notl Ad.,Prll'>lnF:, St>n 11 t' 1-r\\.. C .. :J,-~,- Puhlao.,h~r-. Rt·~ rt• ... ••nt,,•l·. ,~ Lt• :unll.' •n A·. •·n....~• ~, )\. C, \hQ Suh::..:-np!i·•n :!Vet ·• rvpv, SO d ve-ar ·telt.,t\r~d «:Jn\ .... hNP m the L'ntled Stutt>s. D Peter Drotman 'h 9. Jcffre> (' llruv.. ne 'b9 R1, hard Lew 1~ '70 .. Wi!lJJm Outer '71 Allen Gartner '71 Paul Andrew~ '71 .. Leonard S irn on 70 Paul Farnham '70 Alan Klcm '69 SFNlOR BOARD 346·8614 ......... 346·997 3. . .. Co-Editor il1 Chief: f\o-Editor in Chief · 346·1932. Bli~iness Manager .... 377·8613 ............. ~tanaging Editor 3 77·8613 . . . . . . . . . . . ...... News Editor . ..... Features Editor .................................. Sports Editor . • .. Associate Editor · ... Copy Ld1 tor . ' JliNIOR BUARD Richard Kramer '71 _ .... _ . _ .............. Ph-otography Editor Henry Fein '71 . _ Assod:ate Sports Editor . Peter Wcmgold '71 .......... A~sociat-ef'eatures Editor : Alan Cohen '71. . . . . ... Assist an tFeatures Editor .. M1chad SwInk} · 70 . .. ... .. .... . . ... N au anal Ad vcrtising Manager · · Jon Brun~w~~.;k '70... . ................... D11tnbution Director. Carl Gold sand '70 . .... ..... ..... . ............. Cnulation Manager : Larry Rothblurn '70. .. ......... . ................. Subscnption Manager : Jerry Levine '7 I ................................. Local Advertising Manager Jeff BlfTI '71 ................................... Local Ad vc:rtising Manager President- Elect Nixo11 Tuesday's election of Richard Nixon .·is no more and no less than a climax of disappointments in a disappointing election year. Beginnin~ with the assassination of Robert Kennedy, a chiefeontender for the Democratic nomination, the surnrner con- tinued with the defeat of Governor Rockefeller in the Republican National Convention; tllen it was defeat of Senator McCarthy and George McGovern in the Democratic National Convention. And now, President-elect Nixon barely defeats Vice-Presi- dent Humphrey, a candidate we endorsed as ade- quate. All were disappointments, not catastrophic events as the election of George Wallace would have been; no crisis as great as thE Vietnam War; no symbol of the collapse of the nation as a lowering of the flag at Union Wednesday tried to indicate. We are confronted for the next four years with a moderate-conservative presidell.t who will at worst preserve the status quo, ill.stead of a mild-liberal one who might have acc()rnplished something constructive in the areas of Civil Rights, urban affairs and the war ill Vietnam. Names have been mentioned in predictions for cabinet posts which would aid a liberal flavor to the Nixon administration. We hope Mr. Nixon will indeed find responsible positions in his admin- istration for such liberal Republicans as Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Lindsay. Fall Weekend This is Fall Weekend. In the past, (larty week- ends have been characterized by screaming drunk- enness (the equivalent of oral exhibitio-nism), stu- dents driving cars or motorcycles OIL lawns and sidewalks, a proliferation of intoxicated and/or stoned students, violations of the open-container rule, abusive remarks hurled at Sund.ay church- goers and many other uncivilized activities. CONCORDIENSIS hopes that the bor:Jrishactiv- ities of some Union students and townspeople will not be repeated this weekend. Blatant disrespect for human rights and College rules lends a very poor aspect to the image of the mature Union 44 rnen.\ However, the College has certain r-esponsibil- ities in this area also. We can not rationally expect rules and laws which are not enforced to be obeyed. We urge the hiring of security guards who will be more than mere token representativesofasecurity that doesn't exist. Campus Beautiful The Union College Campus is not big enough for cars, trees~ grass and people. F()r several years now cars and grass have been vieing for the dominant position. Concordiensis is rooting for the grass. We own an attractive campus with an ugly parking problem. The campus is not so large that students, faculty and administrators could not walk to their buildings from the la.rge parking areas on the periphery of the campus. \We :feel that the College stands to gain both a better sense of community and a more beautiful campus, if it bans cars and promotes grass. Letters To The Editors CRASHERS To the Editor: Due to the rlse of the thefts and destruction of private prop- erty during party weekends, it is now the policy of Theta Delta Chi to require college or fra- ternity identification of all those wishing entrance to our parties. I urge all fraternity presidents to adapt a similar policy since I feel no fraternity is immune to the problem. I might add that Dean Malloy and th~ ·president of the Inter-fraternity Council, Dan Mead, both concur with rn e that this system is an effective deterrent to party crashers. I regret the slight inconveni- ence that this system might cause, but [ feel that -it is in the best interest of the brotherhood and our guests that w.e take this action. C.J. THOMPSON, President Theta Delta Chi CO-ED PETITION To the Editor: Paul Andrews' petition threa- tens objectively examining the popularity of co-education at Union. The Niemeyer question- naire allows each student to ex- press himself, but unfortunately, Mr. Andrews has capitalized on poor response to further his opinion, His petition strongly in- sinuates that failure to submit a questionnarie is endorsement of co-education. Consequently, authors and signers purport to express sentiments of others: others' failure to answer rep- resents disinterest, nothing else, An individual's expressing his feelings re. co-education to the Board of Trustees is commen- dable. However, putting words in other peoples' mouths is simply unfair. MIKE WILENSKY Rally 'Round The Flag By Ray Krise Jr. Moved by the election of Richard M. Nixon to the Presidency of the United States - and, it must he admitted, by the frustration of an impotency forced on them by the members of society who are older than they, and therefore smarter - a group of l:Jnion students lowered the nation's flag to half-mast Wednesday afternoon. They were soon joined by a smaller group which felt the flag was being de~ecrated and that everybody should obey The Law and join together for :-l'ational Unity and Listen To Your Elders, and similar verbal feces. \That's rny flag. Put it back up.,. \It's my flag too, It should be at half-mast.\ \Nobouy l1a.'J died. Only the President can order the flag flown at half-mast.~ \The countrr is dying.\ \This is a democracy. We must all work together . ., \If you just sit around and accept things, nothing is changed. We show our concern by lowering the flag.\ ~so just because there are more of you than there are of us, you can put the flag down?\ \You were just arguing this is a democracy. A democracy operates on majority rule.\ \We're going to put it back up.\ \Go ahead, We'll let you. Then we'll take it back down.\ \Why don't you boys go home? I have a son in Vietnam,\' said Officer MacDougal in dismay. \Let's discuss things.\ \Let's discuss things.\ \It doesn't matter where the flag is now; we've made our point.\ \You must obey The Laws!' \Laws are made by men, and are, therefore, imperfect. Blind obedience to anything without asking 'Why?' is foolish.\ \The main thing is that we have a small gathering here- well, for Union, I guess it's a big gathering. Let us use the energy of these people for constructive purposes.\ Yes, let us construct something. Let us first understand and respect one another-even, maybe, ROTC-and then use ourselves as bricks to build. Confrontation sows the seeds of understanding, and this reporter left a small gathering of young almost-men talking quietly in several groups. A student walking parallel to me encountered a friend of his, who asked him, \What's going on there?~ \Oh a bunch of Humphrey supporters are arguing with a bunch of guys for Nixon,\ he replied. That is the kind of thing we ?-eed to get rid of. THE BROTHERS OF THE KAPPA ALPHA SOCIETY REQUEST THE PRESENCE OF ALL FRESHMEN AND FRATERNITY MEN SATURDAY, NOV. 9 FROM 10 PM TO 2 PM FOR ENTERTAINMENT SUPPLIED BY THE FABULOUS \SURPRISE PACKAGE\ Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS liOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeots from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Now·s The Time To MARRY ME FALL WEE KEN D'S the tirne to announce your engagement. Buy your Wed- · ding Ring at Maurice Graubart & Sons; Jewelers, 166 Jay St. HALF MAST To the Editor: At 1:15 p.m. Wednesday after- noon, I was told that the nag would be lowered to half mast, because of the concern of the students for the country. I was all for it. What bothered me is that some- thing could have come from this, but nothing did. This could have been the start of somethingcrea ... tive. Usi:ng this flag lowering as a symbol of concern, the next step could have beento get people from Albany or Schenectady or to get some national figures brought in, to dis cuss issues with the students and listen to their views. Or steps could have been taken to confront these people with demonstrations or marches to show our concern. This might accomplish something, maybe just a little, but ft would be something. Anyway, it would be better than arguing with other students on these issues, and it certainly would be better than raising and lowering the flag in front of Nott MemoriaL MARK ELUTO '71 CINERAMA To the Editor: Concordiensis has printed many articles that have in my opinion been incorrect. However, I feel I must now warn Union men of an obviously false and com- mercial movie review of \2001: A Space Odyssey.\ This movie must absolutely be seen in the wide screen miracle of CINER- AMA! In a recent \Playboy\ in- terview, Stan 1 e y Kubrick described his own movie as a visual experience. While a regu- lar screen allows you only to watch the action, CINERAMA can cover your entire field of vision, making you a part of the excite- ment. Since the Hellman's Thea~ tre no longer has CINERAMA one evidently misses the tot~ involvement this process gives to a movie specifically designed for it. Unlike Bill Shapiro, I contend that seeing this mov}e on the flat screen of Hellman's is a waste of both time and :Q1oney. Go to the movies Union. men, but go elsewhere! \• Yours truly CLIFFORD AMEDURI '71 WRUC JAZZ To the Eaitor: Two weeks ago today, from 9 to 11 p.m., we produced the firljjt jazz show ill four years on WRUC. The show has since been can- celled. It was not well publicizeo, but we realized that, even if 1 j 1 t had been, we still would have attracted a relatively small audi- ence. However, we feel that this type of music should be playe 1 ~ in order that the people who enjoy it, as well as those who have not been greatly exposed to it, can hear it. w WRUC 1s the college radio station of Union and Skidmore. Thus, it sbould serve the entire community, not just those Wll(j' generate the station's income through advertising. The station should have given us at least a few chances to prove that th§ appeal of jazz reaches more than just fifty to sixty people. WRUC has many tastes to cater to, but it should always try to cater tjjl all tastes. W~LIAM A. DOUGHERTY, m '71 CLIFF SAFANE '69 Scottish Woolens-A Bold, New Breed f'or Sport Jackets It took some doing to make the Scots put a bit of imagination into their choice wool sport coating. But >. Deansgate did it. The plaids are . . 1 _ bolder; the colol'ings gayer. Tailored · \\ · i in Deanf-1gate's own soft shouldeJ' ,;,._~ const1·uction; they make g1·eat r sport jackets. $65. ,; Deansgate& g .. J .'; Dall's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UNION STRE-ET Mou1 t .lm.. - t ..

gives designed Shapiro, I this mov}e Hellman's time ahd Union. '\· '71 IP ·m from 9 the fir~t been can- publicizecl, even if 1 jrt would have small audi- feel that this be playe 1 ~ people who those who exposed It ollege radio Skidmore. ve the entire those Wll(j' income The station at least a that thJjl es more than WRUC cater to, but to cater tjjl m 9 Bold, e the Scots 1 into their But are r. Tailored ft shouldet· gt·eat $65. ... ~ ' I ., -_, ·, I. t'\ ~ , Y:;\ ' . ,· . < .. Mounteba-nks Picture Story: Andersonville Trial Stars &.Stripes Forever Go Garnet KEEP UP' THAT WINNIN<1 SPIRIT USE OJiti! £1UJltl6aJull':A - liquor Store 511 UNION '$-1, ·EX 3-3111 I:X 3-3110 \ ' l f ,I l il I• d II ll fl t! Photography by Rich Kramer SKI INSTRUCTORS . Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct high -school boys and girls; Pricrr in- struction experience not re- quired. Good compensation. Ex.eellent ski facilities. SHAKER VILLAGf!l SKI GROUP Write or Call: Shaker Road, New Lebanon, N. Y. Lebanon Springs (N.'f.) 7-1255 RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS. STEAKS CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Pizza & Sandwlch.s at All Hours Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily 11 A.M. to Midnight DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1519 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE SHIRTS AS YOU LIKE THEM 22C STARCH - NO STARCH BUTTONS SEWED ON PANTS •• 49~ WHY SAVE •• PAY MORE SAVE •• SAVE ·\ CERCONE'S ATLANTIC STATION Fmest Gasol1ne In Schenectady Guaranteed Service . 711 NOTT ST. 377-9866 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine HQme Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The BrQwaell Gat• on NoH Sti'Mt Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M • VinirkJ Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street at Lafayette STUDENTS Park & Shop Free Parking I I I • • • LOOKING FOR A CLEAN, ATTRACTIVE AND INEXPENSIVE RESTAURANT - TRY DARI-TREET WE SPECIALIZE: IN CHAR BROILED STEAK 2049 Van Vranken Ave. Scheuectady DAILY 8:00AM - 9:30 PM VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN 1.65

• !1 What's it all Concordy , Sports about, Alfred? Beat Hamilto ~ nl ~) ' ------------------------~~--~----~~~==========~~~ Gridders Face Saxons Without Swan By Gary Prevost Brought down from the pin- nacle of the Williams victory by a continued seventh-place ECAC ranking and the unexpected ill- ness of Rich Swan, the Garnet gridders face a big, but incon- sistent, Alfred squad in the Fall Weekend game tomorrow at 1:30 on Alexander Field. Swan, whose late-game heroics brought the Ga:r;'net victory over the Ephmen, has contracted the mumps and will be lost for the season. The Union-Alfred grid series is young by Garnet standards, having been inaugurated in 1960. Saxon squads, which won the ICAC title from 1964 to 1967, have dominated the series with three wins, while the Garnet have won Booters Returnees Fall To Imply Union's varsity soccer team dropped the season's finaie to Hamilton 2-0 on Tuesday. Losing their seventh straight, the Garnet finished the season with a 3-8 ledger. With only a 1:30 gone in the Hamilton contest , the Con- tinentals e v ad e d the Garnet letters Several letters have been re- ceived complaining that no mention of lastSaturday's Union- Williams Football game hadbeen made in the New York Times and the Albany Times- Union. The Sports Staff was also disappoin- ted to see no mention of Satur- day's game in the Times. Publicity of that sort is in the hands of Mr. Richard L. Sine of the E:xternal Affairs Department, and Mr . Sine has explained that a 4:30 pm deadline makes it nearly impossible !or our story to make the early edition of the Times, the one we readinSchen- ectady. A story did appear in the later edition, which is distributed in the New York metropolitan area. A 1:00 p.m. starting time could alleviate the situation. The Albany Times-Union had a re- porter covering the game, and for reasons unknown to all but themselves, did not publish a story on the Union- Williams game in their edition which goes to Troy. A story was included in the Albany and Schenectady edi- tion. two contests, including a 33-0 victory in 1963. The Saxons drub- bed Union 4 · 4-19 and 35-0 in 1965 and 1966 before triumphing 14-0 in a tight game for the ICAC title in Alfred last fall. The 1968 Saxons, who com- plete their . season tomorrow, are · 2-4 on the year, owning victories over Brockport (17-0) and St. Lawrence (16-0). Alfred fell to C. w. Post in their second game by 34-f?. The Pioneers, a tough Division II team, later lost to still-unbeaten Kings Point 16-7. The Saxon.s have dropped their last three encounters: Hobart (14-7), Rochester (33-0), and Cortland (45-28). Several key returning lettermen had boded well for a good season for Alfred, Hamilton, 2 -0; I mprovem en t defense to tally their first . goal. Hamilton's. other goal came on a penalty ldck in the third quar- ter. According to coach Gary Brown, the Garnet played •!air\ soccer and were unable to control the ball enough to score. The Continentals outshot Union22-12. Chris Cartsonis played the game in the goal and turned in a credi- table perf()rmance. Senior Walt Hutton played his usual excellent game on defense, Two factors accounted for the disappointing season for the Gar- net. The quality of competition was some of the best in the East. St. Lawrence, Middlebury, and Trinity played together during the summer during their respec- tive tours through Europe, Col- gate, a new addition to the schedule, proved to be a tough customer. R.P.I., Clarkson, and Rochester are always rough and Hamilton bad a fine season. The second .factor was the loss of Robert Okello in the third game. VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 NOiT TERRACE FR 7-9834 BOLD MOVE A brash and likely move for sports coat enthu- siasts involves our newest plaid i ackets, chec- quered bDldly. It is playing the game, now and again, to be forthright. Move to it! $39.95 Wqr $6o.oo · ~q~lt~TR!.b!!P Open Thurs: 'til 9 SIMON SEZ but the club has just not jelled. Alfred has an impressive defensive line, which averages 225 and is led by veterans John Yanuzzi and Don Bird; who led the line that totally stymied the Garnet groundgameinlastyear's contest. The Saxon Iinebacking corps is led by 200 lb. senior Bill Assenheimer, a consistent ECAC weekly choice who is also a fine lacrosse goalie. Overall, how . ever, the defense is slow and vulnerable · to sweeps. On a muddy field, which is a distinct possi- bility for tomorrow's game, the Alfred defensive line could be difficult to move. Offensively, Alfred has been inconsistent, plagued by weak quarterbacking. With first string quarterback Len Mitchell on the sidelines, sophomore Bill Eckert wm probably start tomorrow. Eckert was chosen the ECAC sophomore-of-the-we e k, com- pleting 18 of 36 for 207 yards against Cortland. His overall sta- tistics for the year (27 of 72 for 352 yards) are not impres- sive. Joe Kovacs, a 5-9, 170 lb. senior halfback, is the leading ground gainer with 509 yards on 154 carries. 194 o! those yards came in an outstanding perfor- Leading Receiver, Rich Swan, has been lost to the gri:dders for the remainder of the season due to a case of mumps. inance a :gains t St. Lawrence. Speedy senior split end Fred Gross is the leading receiver with 30 grabs for 483 yards and four touchdowns. The Saxons' ():ffen- sive line averages nearly200lbs. and coulp be tough if they play to their : p<ltential. The loss of Swan has confused the ga.rne plan of Coach Flood. He expects to start tomorrow's game W: l tll • sophomore Steve Mc- Kenzie at wingback, and attempt to run ag:amst the slow Saxons. Any sophomore gridders who took offense at my comment last week that only Larry Sykes and Jerry Ostrander have made names for themselves as sophs should feel offended no longer. The statement was merely part of an attemptto show similarities between the 1967 and 1968 edi- tions of Union College football, · . and dealt in generalities concern- ing for the m o s t part the \glamour\ positions. Last week's column closed on the hop(;lful note that the di:ffer- ence between the two teams would be manifested in the Williams contest. It was, and no small,part of the credit goes to sophomores. Sykes and Ostrander had fine games running the ball, but more noticeable was the superb .play of the offensive line. Alternating centers B i 11 Birns and Doug Werth, guards Doug Mele and Ed Arnold, tackles Bill Dwyer and Paul Beadle, and tight end Dan (Pup) Gould all contributed greatly to the winning effort With phenomenal inside blocking, with Gould also contributing several key pa a s s receptions. Werth, Arnold, Beadle, and Gould are NSA speaks you · r language by LEN SIMON .sophomores. ~ ~ , On defense, . $ophomores have also contributed to the current 5-l record. Rit Galucci and Tom~ , Duffy have both s eenconsiderable action at tacklE), while Paul Ram- sey has been a starter in the secondary since the second.game 4 o! the season. The efforts of these sophs, ,, along with the upperclassmen, have been quite well a,ppreciated on campus and in the localpress, but the ECAC Division m rating lL have failed to recognize the ac- complishment of · beating Wil- liams. The Garnet remained in 'f seventh place as Williams feU out of the Division II top ten. It seems incredible that a single, loss, by only six points, to num- ber one ranked King's Point should push the Garnet down so low. f> Williams hadbeenrankedfirst, then dropped to fifth by virtue of a 30-28 loss to Tufts. Trinity, ,, ranked third in Division III, took it on the chin from the Ephmen early in the season, 31-14. On a lighter note, Larry Sykes was 11 again named to the weekly team, And furthermore, if you are especially adept in a foreign language, developing \secure\ communications systems to transmit and receive as a prerequisite to NSA interviews for employment. Pick, up a POT Bulletin the National Security Agency is ready to give you immediate linguistic assignments o~ may even train you in an entirely new language. Demonstrated ability in language research can lead to more complex and sophisticated duties. The systematic accumulation of information, examination of data and preparation of special reports are important parts of these assignments. And scientific linguists will find nowhere else the opportunities for practical applications of their craft. At NSA you will be joining an Agency of national prominence-a unique civilian organization responsible for \nsa , NO/ \' TIENG vital information. NSA offers you this opportunity to further broaden your knowledge of modern language or area studies, and to use your talents in a challenging and rewarding career while you enjoy also the broad , liberal benefits of Federal employment. In return, we ask that you not only know your language, but that you be flexible, naturally inventive and intellectually curious. That's a lot to ask. Do you fit the picture? Where to go ••• what to do Language applicants must take the Professional Qualification Test (PQT) at your Placement Office, the sooner the better. It contains a brief registration form which must be received in Princeto'!! N.J. by November 22 (for the December 7 test). College Relations Branch, National Security Agency, Ft. George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. Attn: M321, An equal opportunity employer M/F national security agency ''nsa \nsa TOBOPMT nam JliiK. II ''nsa !/lf!OK8 }!1!!! languagB '' I : ... where imagination is the essential qualification rT () )) ))



2 DIRT ROAD FALL WEEKEND, 1'968 THE CliCHE EXPERT In this country today there are too many George Wallace's, General Hershey's, Curtis LeMay's, Robert MacNamara's, Richard Daley's, Strom Thurmond's and Ronald Reagans - all s-pouting the same brand .of rightist paranoia.. It's gotten so that if you've seen one rightist neurotioyou've seen them all! It's all part of the system - the establishment - the fascist pigs - the eops - the 9 to 5 men - unthinking men who deal only in cliches. Sure there is a. good deal of free expression in the nation but much of itisex:aggerated. Secondly, you can't look to free speech to insure freedom of expression. When one of the Editor's ofthis magaz-ine walks through a crowd, he doesn't say, there's a :repub- lican, there's a democrat, there's a conserv~­ tive, there's a fascist- not at all, we are sensi- tive to the rights of others to their own opinion. Except William Buckley - What's the mat·ter with that fat Wasp? He's squishy soft on Law and Order. But being sensitive we realize it's not Vl1h.at men say and do that counts but what they really are. We approach our journalism with grea.t mod- esty. We have difficult imagining ourselves ~s editors of a real publication - let alone thts magazine. THE MIDNIGiiT OF THE MIND BY Cal'l Re>sencranz (to Allison Fu.rburger 9/7 /68) i have often walked down the street before so let it out ·and let it in lightmyfire is the word i use to describe whatsername foul fetid phallic freaks follow fellows .f:rolicking freely frumping for fornicating tripping slipping skinny-dipping down gain' down till silent voices wake us and we drown MASSED HEADS The Dirt Road is an independent, vital, lovmg thing. Editorial Offices are located wherever the whims of life may find the Editors or at 69 Tear - us Not. Schenec- tady, New York. Publisher - Juaquin Balaguer Editorial Board - Juaquin Balaguer, Carl Rosencranz, Cliff Inance, Alan Giggler, Rick Sign (Editor's Note - Because the Board is small, unchanging, composed of people with one point of view who are mostly older members of the community and has no Blacks as members it may remind you of your Draft Board) ---------------------------------------- Any Allusions, Illusions, or confusions re- lated to and fascist power group, bureau- cratic monolith or persons, living dead or otherwise is purely coincidental. --------------~------------------------- This is a piece of dirt. Sit in it. Jump up and down in it. Make mud-pies in it. Bury you:r mother in it. Fornicate in it. Vomit in it. Those were the contents of this issue We do not give a damn; we have your dime. Dirt is not the same as people. Except for some. HELP PAVE THE DIRT ROAD ----Yes, it's true, the best things in life are Free and- the Dirt Road, needs your support to keep publishing. For 5 dollars -you can be a contributing sub- scriber. For 10 dollars -- you can choose two people each issue as part of our upcoming - Fascist Faces in the Crowd - Feature. For Twenty Dollars -You can have a con- tributing subscription and an ounce of the Dirt Roads oW!l grass. For 50 dollars - you can dictate our editor- ial policy concerning free journalism. For 100 dollars - you can Have- the Dirt Road, the souls of two of the editors (guaranteed that at least three have souls). Make all checks payable. FALL WEEKEND, 1968 DIRT ROAD 3 CONCORD lENS IS REVIEWED AND PANNED by Andy Aitkenhead The Frankenstein of the journalism world, our own local answer to the DAR Newsletter, a paper known for the clarity, style, readability, accur- acy and interest of its advertisements; the exis- tential nature of its editorials; the total objectiv- ity of its sports analysis and the total abjectivity of its circulation staff, Concordy has lived life on this campus by an imaginative policy of planting clues to the actual news in its published articles. In a drive to escape from the confining rules of classical journalism the Union College News- paper has embarked on a courageous policy of avant-garde spelling, punctuation and sentence structure. Particularly rewarding has been the multiple choice nature of its quotations. In regard to news article the quote of the principal person involved does indeed include all the words spoken by that person. The reader is asked, however, to rearrange the order in which they are presented. Instead of asking the traditional and hackneyed questions, who, what, where, when and why, Con- cordy has established a policy of asking how can the story be cut, what would a misleading head- line be, what's the simplest way to distort his meaning, do the editors have at least five con- flicting alibis to explain why it won't get in, the name is spelled wrong in the headline, the paper won't come altogether or why plant food facts replaced it. In its startling series of courageous editorials Concordy has come out for Day light, breakfast, preventive medicine, movable type, and swallow- ing while scathing attacks have reduced the sta- ture of Rococo Architecture, the edsel, deficit spending, and heterosexuality. Guided by imaginative personnel \I Know it all\ Brown and \I Know the rest\ Drootman, the brilliant aethestics or find the continuation are manipulated by managing ~ditor ohzer who regards the paper exciting because it lets him stay up past ten o'clock. The part-time features is led by Paul Andli'.!3WS who babbles in the arts and babbles in the sCiences - get it? Sports has fooled the campus by running the very same foot- ball action photo for the past (i5 issues merely changing the cropping - note as Chester Arthur hands off to William Seward in the 1894 Union - Syracuse contest. The photography crew trained in sensitivityand command of their equiprn.ent at the identification room of the Schenectady County Jail have pre- sented a brilliant portfolio and examination of various philosophical approaches to focus. The paper is printed by a team of trustees from, sing sing prison on leave to troy - which they find no different. The crew with backgrounds throughout the printing profession has found the preparation of Concordy to be not much differ- ent from counterfeiting. It is rumored that at least three of the 17 rn.en involved can either read or write but not both. The paper is brought to the campus by pony express and then is dis- seminated by the forces of nature - wind, rain and any copies picked up by migrating animals. OBITUARY--- The editors regret to announce the death of premier New Leftist, C .0. Rudd: As a radical his credentials were impeccable. Due to a freak accident at birth he was never a virgin, he taught Bob Dylan to play the harmonica, he was a~ainst the War in Viet Nam five years before it began and his Bar Mitzvah was attended by Che Gue- vara. He has toured Red Cb.ina, North Viet Nam and Chicago which cosi: him his passport in 1964. He has burned 11,376 copies of his draft card while maintaining a 2-S deferment despite his ''short'' academic 1oad of carrying on a correspondence course in Buddhist politics with Parson's College. On his death bed he recited all of\ Alice's Restaurant\ fr<>m memory. His phil- osophy that \Life is a down\ has endeared him to us all and he will be s()rely missed. Funeral Services will be held M<>nday in Grant Park where he received special permission to be buried in return for his promise not to request a plot in Arlington Cemetery.

4 POWER CONTEST What do you think is the most powerful per- son at Union? Who, in your opinion, wields the greatest command over the greatest number of Unionites? The Dirt Road wants to know. C.ast your ballot by che eking off the name of your candidate and sending it to our offices in the penthouse of the Nipple. If the person you vote for is really the most powerful, your prize will be saving your life while he destroys those who opposed him. ******************************************** I think the most powerful man on campus is ( ) President Martin ( ) the owner of ( ) Abby Stillman Ferro's Drugstore ( ) Allen Zeigler ( ) Bill Ouzer ( ) \Scoop\ Brown ( ) Lance Falducciwitz ( ) Neal Gordan ( ) Sam the Dog ( ) Professor Murphy ( ) Fred Lax: ( ) Marsha Brown ( ) God ( ) the Third Floor Maid in West College SECOND POWER CONTEST Who do you think wants power more than any- one else on campus? Check the appro:priate name. His prize will be he can do anything he wants for a whole day. Contestants may not vote for them- selves, as this would make the awarding of the prize impossible, and would bringPresidentWal- lace down on our necks. ******************************************** I think the person most dying to ~ain power is ( ) Neal Gordon ( ) Abby Stillman ( ) Neal Gordon ( ) Abby Stillman ( ) Neal Gordon ( ) Abby Stillman 9 0 neal Gordon ( ) Abby Stillman ( ) Neal Gordon ( ) Abby Stillman ( } Neal Gordon ( ) Abby Stillman ( ) God ( ) Other -------- DI.RT ROAD FALL WEEKEND, 1968 CON:CERT CANCEllED We regret to announce the cancellation of Sat- urday's ( ) Fall ( ) Winter ( ) Spring ( ) Other Weekend concert starring . ( ) He ( ) She ( ) They ( ) It informed the Entertain- ment Committee ( ) Thursday night ( ) Friday morning ( ) Saturday afternoon ( ) Half anhour ago ( ) in ten minutes that the performance would not be able to go on as scheduled due to a ( ) nervous breakdown ( ) hatred of Union ( ) hatred of Union ( ) better offer ( ) heavy date ( ) ease of Aztec Two-Step ( ) conversion to Christianity ( ) notice from General Hershey ( ) \Surf :Party\ movie on TV. Rather \than risk having the campus destroyed by irate townies, ( ) Rusty Manker ( ) President Martin ( .)the campus :police ( ) Mayor Daley decided to call off the entire thing, even though it meant fo:rfitting ( ) $100 ( ) S200 ( ) $300 , ( ) a kiss to , the second, les- ser known ( ) group ( ) singer ( ) be1ley- dancer signed to appear with _ __,.------ Students will be able to get refunds for their now-worthless tickets from either Student Activi- ties or fTorn the newly-installed vending machines on each floor designed for this express purpose. You may at the same time obtain a list of eligible girls in the Schenectoga Circle to replace the one who dumped you after not getting to hear a con- cert for tlle time in a row. REGRESSION by Clifford Inane I first heard Tiny Tim in a Schenectady bar where he was the featured entertainment. I had heard a lot of great things about Tiny, and I ex- pected an awful lot. After hearing her, my first reaction was one of disappointment; I felt let down. Rut upon further reflection, I realized Tiny did move me; I felt gay again. Well, now Tiny has a new album out called Cheap T'h.rills. And my reaction followed the pattern of my initial encounter - disappointment followed by being impressed. Tin Tim! Wow, can this girl sing! He can raise you out <>f your chair or send shivers down your spine. He is leerical on \Summertime\ and gay on ''Pieoe of My Heart.\ But with all these styles, I wonder which is the real Tiny Tim. What is he, and not just an imitation of others? Maybe his next album will answer these questidns. FALL WI:EKEND., 1968 D·IRT RIDE 5 DIRT ROAD FOR:U.M The delicate social and personal problems which hang-up all of our lives can oftenbe solved by a simple straightforward answer. It is the hope that this column will aid those who encoun- ter such difficulties. Dear Dirt Road, Dear Dirt Road, The other evening while under the influence of a \Leary Cocktail\ I finally encountered the basic problems of life and managed to form sev- eral questions which, if answered could unravel its secrets. Tell me why the ivy twines, tell me why the stars do shine, tell me why the sky is blue? B.Y.E. Schenectady Dear B.Y.E., You obviously have not read Hegel, Kant, Thor- eau, Abbie Hoffman, Marcel Proust, and Erich Fromm who can explain this easily but cannot cope with why the Bear went over the mountain. * * * * * * Dear Dirt Road, Following a recent demonstration my girl and I were arrested. The policeman, badge 291 threw my girl in the paddy wagon first and then me - is this proper etiquette. C.Y.O. - Rome Dear C.Y.O., According to latest procedure the policeman was correct but only if mace was not used. The rules clearly indicate that only in the case of police dog bites should the boy be put in first in order to conceal his wounds from the ever pesky press -who are already inside. * * * * * * Dear Dirt Road, I have recently become a radical and am con- cerned what to wear to my first demonstration. T. N. Bopper- Troy When I was at a pot party recently the man on my right passed the joint and said, \stick it in your ear.\ Well, right then and there, a violent argument ensued as to not only which ear I should stick it in, but which end was to protrude. What do you say? F .D.A. - Pasadena Dear F.D.A., These are always the touchiest situations. Per- haps the best answer would be to divide the joint in the middle and place half in each ear, thereby offending no one. As to your querie about the proper end for insertion, it all depends on your motivations; i.e. if you are a hot head activist you would naturally insert the lighted end. * * * * * * Dear Dirt Road, Last week my girl and I really grooved out. I mean it was unreal! But we had a big disagree- ment on whether she should buy her own pills or not. What should I do? P. T .A. - Harper Valley Dear P.T.A., This is one ·Of the most pregnant questions I have ever encountered. Either you split the dif- ference on th.e pills or buy a set of knitting n:.eedles. The latter might be more economical because they will last longer. * * * * * * Dear Dirt Road, Vi/hat do you give an elephant with diarrhea? C.O. - Spray, North Carolina Dear C.O., Plenty of room! * * * * * * Dear Dirt Road, I am a schizophrenic. One of us ~oes well with the pothead set while the other is straight. The other day I was invited to a grass orgy, but my first self already has a date. Should I send my Dear T. N., If possible gold frame glasses, and any one of 47 medallions currently on the SDS Womens Wear Daily list will be OK, try to wear nothing with red, white and blue in it and masking tape adds much to otherwise dull jackets. Boots should be no more than knee height and eye make up should consist of Da-glo paint tastefully applied. straight self? TT /tt - Minneapolis - St. Paul Dear TT/tt, Don't bothel'. Your straight selfmightnotmingle well with the other ~ests. You could get into a fight in which case you would really have a duel personality.

6 DIRTY RIDER FALL WEEKEND, 1968 CLASSIFIED OlRT Looking for minhibited young men :to form new active group. l\lust be fond of sheep and unallergic to wool. Box 23 Dirt Road. * * * * * * '* Beautiful, deep, girl needs someone to paint her body; very easy, just fill in the blanks. Box 9 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Sensitive, artistic, gentle, free, sweet, beautiful, inde- pendently wealthy girl needed by strugglingyoungpainter whose work is unappreciated by the bourgoisie. Box 11 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Coffeehouse proprietor seeks cook who can sling hash. Box 50 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Anarchists! Put an end to ineffectual endeavors. We shall unite anarchy iRto a powerful force. Box 1 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Visiting German professor wishes to meet all supporters of George Wallace. Box 4 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Attractive male seeks mutually gratifying relationship with attractive girl. Box 69 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Hedonistic man desires selfish pa..rtnership with loving woman. Box 60 Dirt Road. * * * * * * P reducer of artistic films searching for new acresses. Come on over, we won't put you on Box B 1/2 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Have lost my woman. Blonde, stacked, 5'4\ with teeth marks in her ass. Will reward i1:1formant with grass. Box 12 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Well-built, intelligent blonde of moclerate height has fi- nally escaped entangling relatio1:1ship with dirty old man/pot head. Sensitive, interesting, have tmique birth- mark. Box 13 Dirt Road. * * * * * * Exciting, dedicated organization seuching for radicals, revolutionaries, socialists, anarchists, and other groovy people. Interesting situations offered. Box 007DirtRoad. * * * * * * Dirt Road Classified Ads cost 25¢ per line and are pub- lished in every issue, i.e., sporadically, depending on whether we are in jail or on a trip or something, or not. We reserve the right to withhold fr()m publication any- thing that sounds really good, so we can look into it our- selves. WEDDING ANNOUN.CEMENT Trembles Glover and Miss Anastasia Suburb were mar- ried yesterday in San Francisco a..board the tugboat S.S. Novotny. Captain Wilbur Cr:o;znocher officiated. The groom has demonstrated for SDS in Berkeley and at Col- umbia, he has sat down for civil rights, free speech and student power, he has stood up fc>r George Wallace and wears the cross of Honor - 3rd class for Heckling - He is know for his imaginative posters and his clever use of the sign as a defensive weapon. 1'he Bride is also in the aristocracy of the New Left having run away from HALt OF FAME A NEw Left Hall of Fame has been erected outside of Cambridge, Indiana. Featuring Memorabili·a from the great moments of the New Left the grounds wtll be per- manently surrounded by a picket fence, Inside features include the beads and medallions of famous new leftists, a vintage motorcycle display, and an art exhibit of the finest in picket signs. Rooms will be devoted to the Sit-ins, pray-ins, watk-ins and teach- ins of the past 10 years including tapes of the sage voices and films on loan from the FBI library in Wash- ington. Make Love Not War\ Thomas, radical in residence, will serve as historian of the movement for the next three years. His main project now is to bronze Allen Ginsburg's beard for a feature attraction. Out in front such notables as Clark Kerry and Eldridge Cleaver have been asked to put their footprints in the continually wet cement which approaches the museum at its entrance on the right. Interior decoration features pasley a.nd is highlighted by the Andy Warhol Chapel. The ceiling is a large mural containing clever portraits of all the enemies of the New Left - especially effective are those of Richard Daley and Robert McNamara who are portrayed in a passionate embrace. A seminar is planned to introduce those interested in the 743 current synonyms for \marijuana as we all know the greatest coup in hip conversation is to use a term for the weed with which your partner is unfamiliar - this is currently worth 8 points on the coolness scale as pub- lished by the National New Left Rating Association (the NIRA). GROOVY THINGS ONE CAN DO TO BE IN 1) take a picture of a cop and get arrested 2) paint flowers on a cannon 3) go see \Hair\ and pretend you're bored . 4) get laid in the thirty-fourth Kama Sutra position 5) walk into class 20 minutes late looking like' you just got up for a 2:30 class. 6) drive a Lamborghini Espada with flowers all over it 7)be in love with John Coltrane and be able to tell the difference between when he's warming up and when he's playing. 8) wear a Wallace button and love beads 9) lower the flag to half-mast withouttellinganyonewhy 1 0) carry around volumes of Lord of the Rings but never find the time to read any of them 11) refer to Timothy Leary shnply as ''Him\ 12) wish there was an SDS at Union, but never explain why you don't join the one in Albany 13) think Shea Stadium was erected in memory of a Cuban revolutionary home at age twelve and at one time owned the worlds longest chain of love beads. The bride wore bleached dungarees, a bronzed hair net and Da-glo nail polish. Probation Officer Sgt. Sidney Malzet was the best man while the brides brother Strage Stu served as the maid of honor - the bride was given away by raffle. The newlyweds honeymoon will last from 1 to 5 years in Los Angeles County Jail. FALL WEEKEND, 1968 CHE CHl by Don Diego Delavega When next will come the light of day? Our comrade's killed by the CIA. .So great was he, a humanist, Who tore at every capitalist. Loving all so much, his beard With blood from every class was smeared. Whose name lives on in every heart, And even on the leaves of Ramparts. In towns and hamlets he held sway, And maybe in all Bol-iv-i-ay! His greatness just drove men insane, So that he became old Lyndon's bane. No better man has lived than Che, For who held all those Pigs at Bay? DIRTY GUIDER 7 THE GREAT PUMPKIN \A CAUSA PER SA PAROLE ASSAI\ Our photographer caught this rare photo of the Great Pumpkin rising out of Jackson's Gardens last Thursday evening. Sorry, Chet. GREAT JOBS GREAT OPPORTUNITY, GREAT MONEY····· WITH POW CHEMICAL MAKERS OF THAT ALL-PURPOSE CATCH-ALL- THE \RAPID BAH-IT\ OF PLASTICS SARAM WRAP \KEEPS MEAT FRESH FOR HOURS.\



r i . ;. ''A Causa Persa 'Parole . Assai\ '! ·: Robberies, costing Union students ' · .more than .$275, again hit the Union : .: College campus this weekend. d By dimbing in tluough a first floor ,t·.·w:indow of Sigma Chi early Sunday 1 .. morning a thief sa~:ked the room and t stole about $200 m cash, coats, and dfitecords . from Junior Vincent I Bonaventme and his date. :'J .. ' ., u•..- Third floor West was again the · ;~\victim of thieves. John Castellani 1· reported 3 c~ecks missing,, .one of • which accordmg to authonhes was ··/~~already_ .cashed at the bookstore for i $13. SIXteen dollars was stolen from 1 j Mark Roberts room on Friday night. . ,f' ij Thefts on third floor West in late JJ: October but just. yes1erday reported to ; the Dean of Students totalled more ''.''than $70. •I Local authorities have been n_otilied . , Pof every mc1dent. College offi<nals are I considering creating a aew position--director of security. I) if I • Mead On Pa;rieta:ls Page 2 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., NOVEMBE;R 12, 1968 PRICE TW.ENTY CENTS S,tajj Meets B P.M. Tonight Attention: Frosh who are still looking for a worthwhile · organization of which to beco.me a part and • upperclassmen who know something about journalism. The editors of Con c ord.ien sis will hold a : general staff reorganizational meeting at 8 P.M. tonight in . the offices on the first floor of . Bronner H.ouRe, north of North College. All interested prospective reporters and sports writers as well as regular staffers are invited to attend. The Senior Board of the newspaper will meet at 7 P.M . to discuss editorial policy and problems with printing and . circulation. Trustees Defer C,o-Ed Issue; Exhaustive Inquiry Planned by Steve Levy This weekend's action by The Board of Trustees means that the earliest possible date for the admission of women to Union is now the Fall of 1970. The Trustees upon recommendation of it's Development and Long Range Planning Committee voted to approve a study of co-education to be made with prMessional help and financed by auspices of the President's office . The action was taken at the Board's Saturday meeting and stated that ·-a more detailed study was needed before the Board could consider co-education. The study is to be made during the ensuing months and to be presented to the Committee in time for its persual prior to the Trustees' meeting in June. The proposal for the study came out of the Committee's Friday afternoon meeting which was attended by members of tl1e Faculty Council. The meeting discussed at length related matters of size for the College and co-education. · Killian Resigns; Surprises WRUC by Randy Sutter Having studied various reports submitted to it, including the Niemeyer Repo~t_, a!ld . _having J l~ndian Presents Kash~mir Case I Robert Killian resigned the presidency of WRUC yesterday afternoon after almost three terms of service as head of the college radio station. Under the guidance of Killian, WRUC has succeeded in bringing its business accounts into the black for the first time in many years. Meade Brunet Chainnan of Trustees I; Denies Pakistani Equal~ity Claim In a letter of resignation posted in the offices of WRUC late yesterday, Killian wrote: \Now after several years association with this organization, a number of circumstances indicate to me that it is advisable for me to resign as president and station member.\ II. by ALAN KLEIN Mr. V. K. Ahuj~, Counsel-General tof India in New York began a I presentation of the Indian position I regarding Kashmir with the observation, \No two people in the world have as much in common as India and Pakistan.\' Throughout his entire talk he stressed the point that -the Indians and the Pakistanis are . really one people aad that \had India become independe11t in 1938,. there ~\I would have been n() State of Pakistan. ~ He blamed Pakistan for trying; to .. ·; create differences where none really exist and for expec1ing India to treat ~:her as an equal, which Mr. Ahuja asserted she is not. He stated that before the partition of India in 1947 both Moslems and \'Hindus lived in all parts of the country and that the leaders of India accepted the partition only reluctantly ~mder the realization that massive population 'displacements would occur, as they in l fact did. Mr. Ahuja stated that six million people resettled as a result of <·the partition. Kashmir became an issue when its ? Maharajah declined to join either India b or Pakistan. Under an arrangement If l·· 'Qeveloped by the departing British, the 1 ruler of each sub-state had the option 1 of joining one 1>f the · two new ·~countries or of remaining independent, ~ but the British explained to each ruler ·· that it would be almost impossible to maintain independence against what · Mr. Ahuja called \geographical factors.\ Kashmir chose independence, but later, according to Mr. Ahuja, she was 'provoked by infiltration from Pakistan. Both the ruler and the leading political body of Kashmir then ,.agreed to join Ind:ia in order to obtain (< Constitutional The work of the Open Committee for Constitutional 11 Revision is nearipg completion. A rough draft of th~newly drawn-up . constitution will be presented for discussion at an open meeting 11 ·'·I Wednesday evening at 7:30 in SS 115. The purpose of the meeting is to v . , familiarize students with the work of the Committee and to formalize dissenting and minority opinions on both the ~alient and detailed points ~· 'l : · of the new document. .. 11 ( Indian military aid. India promised to hold a pie biscite when the Pakistani infiltrators withdrew. The infiltrators never withdrew; India never consented to the plebiscite. However, India was unprepared for an indefinite stalemate, which is what happened. At the pre.sent time India is unwilling to reopen the Kashmir question except as part or a general reconciliation between India and Pakistan. To do so India feels, could lead to another \blood letting\ such as occured after the partition. Mr. Ahuja contrasted the secular state of India, where religion is regarded as irtelevent to politics, to the \Islamic Republic of Pakistan\ which, he said, is by definition a Moslem state, and where Hindus seldom hold high public office. He fur:ther asserted that the United States should support India because l n dia is the only possible counter-balance against Red China. Killian's resignation was rumored nearly a week ago and a few members of the station apparently sensed the impending move as long as two weeks ago, but it caught many station members by surprise. Although Killian had no further comment to give beyond his letter, several station members said the move resulted from personality conflicts between members of the staff of the station. As Killian wrote in the letter, \During the course of my term as station president, I have made a number of bad decisions and an even larger number of mistakes in dealing with the people who have staffed this station.\ The senior resigned just three weeks short of three terms after he assumed the presidency when Dick Reingold stepped down because of academic difficulties. Killian was elected by station members at the beginning of the Spring term last year. Halfback Jerry Ostrander shows some of his 9.9 speed as he legs out a 34-yard punt return late in the first quarter that set up the Gamet's first score again!!t Alfred Saturday. · Outstanding Saxon middle linebacker Bill Assenheimer and Union's Russ Cicotti follow the action. Union won the Fall Weekend highlight, 21-7. Photo by Boylan During the summer Killian was employed by the Columbia Broadcasting System under its management-training program. During the first part of the summer he wrote news for WCBS, the CBS aff:tliate in New York. Later he worked at the Democratic Convention covering state delegations for the local stations of the areas they represented. In the letter of resignation, Killian said that he had found the position of the presidency \challenging personally beneficial and enjoyable.\ Tracing the growth of the station during the years of his membership, Killian remarked about the improvement in program, in audience approval and support, and in more successful business management. He foresees continued growth for the station in the future. \I have every belief that continued progress will allow us to maintain our position as the nation's number one college radio station.\ examined the data from 438 students' replies to the co-ed questionaire, the Committee \found need for more comprehensive analyses of several facotrs\ according to a statement issued by President Martin's office. Unlike the questionaire submitted to students and the one that will be made available to alumni through the November issue of Symposium, this study will be concerned not with opinion, but with data concerning program-projections for various academic departments; operating budget and capital resources, the admissions \pool\ predictable effect of increase in size and of the admission of women on curriculum and so on. No defmite date for completion of the study has been set beyond the committee's requirement that it be available prior to June. Nor has it been said if and when such a report would be made public, nor who the professionals involved will be nor what the maximum expenditure could be. Student Council Slates Fast To Bolster Self-Help Causes by Alan Mell The Student Council passed a resolution supporting the seventh annual national Fast For Freedom, scheduled for November 21, when students will be encouraged to skip dinner, in order to raise money to help anti-poverty and race relations programs. This will be the first time that Union has participated in the Fast, . wpich will be organized here by the Community Relations Committee. A letter from the national sponsers of the Fast, which Jim Stillman read to the Council, cited the acute need, caused by Federal budget cutbacks in anti-poverty spending, for funds to aid impoverished Americans who are participating in self-help programs. Danny Aronzon read a report from the Committee on Student Government Reorganization, which hopes to present their proposed · constitution to the student body next week. The Committee has not yet decided whether to have a student body President elected by all students or a Senate President elected by the proposed Senate only. In addition, a minority report will be presented to students, along with the Constitution, which will favor' the retention of class officers. The proposed constitution does not provide for class officers. The constitutionality ofpostponing freshman class elections, which were originally scheduled for yesterday, was questioned at last night's meeting in Hale House. According to the present Constitution, freshmen vote for class officers on the first Tuesday after the first Sunday of November. The only constitu tiona! method of changing this clause, even for only this year's election, is by a two-thirds vote of the Student Council and then a majority vote of the student body. Neither vote has been taken. The elections were postponed because of the possibiij.ty that class officers, who would have been elected yesterday, will not have a job in a few weeks, if the majority report of the proposed constitution is passed. The Student Council decided not to take any action on the unconstitutional postponement of the elections, since the legal date has already passed for holding them. Under the proposed constitution, a Senate would be formed, consisting of at least 32 members. The senators would be elected by students in their living units-- sixteen from the fraternities and sixteen from the dormitories, plus one member for every 36 students living off-campus. A C omrnittee on Committees, comprised of senators and members of (continued on Page 3) !. !

tetter IFC Chief Ba·cks Rules; Discusses Sound Morals An Epistle To Erraticals i' t} 1 by Phil Robinson Well, I'll tell you. England had sunk a fortune into America, and wasn't getting back anything close to its original investment. They couldn't afford to keep all those soldiers so far from home, they were losing Stamps, their tax collectors were getti.qg tarred and feathered, and all their tea was winding up in Boston Harbor. In short, the originall3 colonies were pains in His Royal Highness's Royal Heine. Thought in origin, it is obviouS> that th.e Crown knew j1.1st what would happen if he pushed the Americans: too far. To the Editor: Thank you for your article in the November 5 edition of:Concordiensis, in which the e~istence and aims of the Liason C<Jrnmittee are outlined. There are, however, a few points not contained in the article which may be of interest to the college community. First, the committee does not feel that it must restrict the complaints it will receive to \stu.dent ccmplaints about any co:llege .office;\ indeed, complaints from anywhere and about anything in the college cotnmunity are receivable. Next, lt may be of inteJest tll:at ombudsman-like offices exist in other American Universities, and experience has shows tllat such an office can perform the following services: restore a sense of accessibility to the student; furnish alternatives to confrontation; help form administm tive decisions; offer a place for a student to go when he feels he is not being heard; g iv e s orne hope that real C<>ncerns a~e not being bound up in red tape; and help the community to listen to g ri evan c~s and attempt to remedy their causes rather than si!Ilply defending the status quo. Clearly, some of these services are needed more than others at Union, but the Liason Committee cannot hope to perform any of them unless its existence and function are well known to the community it v;ould serve. On behalf of the committee, thank you for the important role which Concordiensis plays in this publicizirlg process. Theodore A. Bick Department of Mathematics Publisned Tuesday and Fnday dur- LIIg th\ school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advert1s1ng R epre- sentative: National Educational Advertising Serv.ice, Inc .. College Publishers Representative, 360 .Lex1ngto.n Avenue, N.Y. C. Jeffrey C. Browne Editor-in-Chief Dan Mead is pre&idellt of the Interfraternity Council.--Ed. by DAN MEAD The recent pro.posali> to give living units on this campus autonomous rule over their parietal hours has given rise to a number of questions to which we, as members of the enfue community, must address ourselves. I believe the discussion.s on this is:me have revolved around two basic questions. F it:st, student responsibility. Students have chosen to take upon themselves the task of legislating among themselves the . complex problem of visiting hours for females in the living units. The faculty and administtation have shown their skepticism in an A:ll College Council about this urgent matter, and their opinlons must be considered. Whereas the student feels that it is his duty to dictate the standards by which ilis social behavior is governed because only he is directly affected, the older generation and parental figure at this institution feels that the student has not shown himself to be the responsible person he thinks he is. \We know of instances 'Where a student has actually_ . .' The student questions: \'Do you have any evidence?\ The reply is negative, but the inference is clear. The administration and faculty do know of behavior which has been totally lacking in responsibility and sound moral judgement, and they will not let the student forget it. The second area of faculty and administration skepticism concerns the implication of the total lack of pariental hours by virtue of the autonomous rule which we seek. They feel, I think, (and justi£iably so) that certain individuals or certain living units, may develop behavior patterns that would put detrimental pressure on other individuals to take advantage of the new freedom, or that groups would get reputations that Edllorial Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publicauon Office. White· hurst Printing & Binding Co .. Inc .. 416-418 Fifth Ave., iroy, 235·4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Closs Mail Matter. Subscriptlon 204 a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. D. Petex Drotman Editor-in-Chief William Ouzer Managing Editor Office Phones 377-8613 346-8614 Allen Gartner ... 346-8067 News Editor Paul Farnham- Associate Editor Alan Klein - Copy Editor ' Staff - Terry Pozefsky, Mike Crowley, Carl Dietz, Larry Friedman, Har:ris Ginzburg, Ken Golden, Steve Heller, Steve Levy, Alat1 Mell, Joe Schwartz, Randy Sutter, Ken Wyse, Gary Yaros Paul Andrews ... 393-7378 Features Editor Peter Weingold- Assistant Editor r Alan Cohen - Assistant Editor Staff - Paul Markes, Steven Cole, Steve David, Danay Sb.ocket, Bill'. Shapiro, Phil Robinson ~ Leonard Simon ... 372-7227 Sports Editor Henry Fein - Associate Editor Staff - Gazy Prevost, Michael ~eger, Walt Spencer, Stu Moss, Paul Forbes, Jay Blitzman, Bill Holleran Richard Kramer ... 377-2566 Photography Editor Staff - Dave Zapata, Mark Lichtenstein, Jody Saslow; Geol'ge Kaplan, Mark Boylan, Larry Friedman Richard Lewis ... 346-1932 Business Manager Michael Sirsky - National Advertising Manager Lany Roth blum - Subscription Manager Jerry Levine - Local Advertising Manager Jeff Bim - Local Advertising Manager would reflect poorly the atmosphere wh.ich we might idealy with to attain. The college obviously does not wish to become the proprietor of a boarding house in which co-habitation becomes the thing to do. Union does have a good reputation to protect, and doesn':t want it compromised in an.y way. Our community is confronted with a dilemma. It appears that the hierarchy is moving along at a ,pace consistent with what one might term \conservative change,\ along the path of \quiet revolution\ which our 'yearbook' staff immortalized. In the wake of such progress it has effectively chosen to 'overlook' certain instances which might be embanassing or impeding to smooth progress. Such instances are, however, being held over the students' head as representative of a lack of responsibility, but nothing is being done by them to correct the inequity. Hi, there, peace creepst understand you think a .revolution might do this co\lntry some good, and in support of your thesis, you state that, after all, democracy in America had its start in the Revolutionary War of 1776. Well, hippies, I hate to break the news to you, but we didn't really win the American revolution, because Great Britain threw it. The English took a dive. First let us examine our improbable and unlikely military victory. England was the most powerful nation in the W()rld, had the best trained arrned forces, the richest ans widest empire, etc. The colonies were poor and disunited, had neither a trained nor a well-equiped army,. lacked a navy, depended financially on Great Britain, and was, aU in all, in no shape to fight a war against anybody. So, answer me, you long-haired anarchists, hoVJ the hell could we have wen? \Because God was on our side,\ you say? Oh, what fools t:nese de gene rates be. Lookithere, what did we ever do for God that would make Him say, \Gee those Yanks are OK. I thiiJk I'll help them defeat the Britisll, and in return, they can endorse Me in their Pledge of Allegiance?\ Little Love For God Let's face it folks, there was little love lost between God and our early American ancestors. Before they came to the New World, this was a virgin land of Indians and buffaloes. The original colonists came here, unvirgined the land, killed the Indians, and ate the buffaloes. Certainly, Mr. G, was not about to go out of.his way for us. \But you say, choking on your stinking radical tongues, \why would the British want to purposely lose a war, and relinquish a valuable colony?\ No Simple Answer King George decided that the colonies had to go, but he couldn't just issue a royal decree saying, \Attention America, you are free, we don't want you any more.\ Certainly, that would be an injurious slap in the face to the colonists, and the King wanted not to alienate them. \After all,\ he reasoned, \someday England will need help in World War I, and who will save her? The Indians? And in World War H, when England's very sovereignty is threatened, who is going to defeat the Nazis for her? The buffaloes? And in the 1960's when England is ready to declare bankruptcy who is going to bail her out? Sonny Tufts? · \No said the King, knowingly, \we must get rid of the colonie/ in jUch a way that will not make them hate u{. We will show them that we love and want them enough to fend the Pride of England, the Fonf of Britain, into battle to die and be hurt juft fo that we may keep the colonie[ We will lofe the war, the colonie{ will declare their independence, and they will be fo grateful to uf, that they will be our be.fl: friend/ina century or two.\ So spoketh the King of England. But how to start the war? The British knew that certain abuses on their part were sure to provoke the colonists. Since most revolutionary thought in America was Enlightenment Lord Townshend, therP Minister of Air Pollution and the \rhree Primary Colors, ·developed : so me cogent ideas, and : succeeded in passing some} i intelerable legislation, subjecting the colonists to unfair practices, price fix.ing and sudden fits o~ 1 colic. ·Mad Colonists A.nd so it was. The colonists got mad, and commenced tcf fight fm their independence. \But wow,\ you say in your , best stoned tones, \didn't thfi! i. English .really try to win the ! · war?\ Well, no wonder you : peace creeps are against war - j you don'•t know anything aboutJ•· it. How did the war end, dummies? Lord Cornwallis, a brilliant ' military strategist got himself ·, ,,. trapped on a peninsula by Washington's ill-clothed, ill-fed, ill-equipped, ill-paid, ill soldier!IJ ! · (who never really forgave :. General George for making them .. , eat their blankets at Valley •. Forge.) Now, do you honestly . believe that Cornwallis would ; allow himself to be trapped on a : peninsula by such an army? 0 \ If he wanted to escape, he could have taken to the sea, but since his purpose was to lose the : · war. he had London conv:inct'ff the French (who were very happy to help England get out of the New World) to aide the , . Americans at this crucial time~ • Therefere, French Admiral De G~asse (Goo!l name, yes, drug fiends?) sailed his fleet from the!)) West Indies to Yorktown, cutting off Cornwallis's oceanic escape route. On October 19, , 1 . before too many of his mer~ • were killed, Cornwallis formally ' stirrendered. And, I suspect he chuckled as he handed his sworq, over to Gen eral Washington. And that's the truth about America's beginnings. The inappropriateness of such. an argument seems to me quite apparent. The college does not 'Want to play policeman, nor should it. Yet it also has a responsibility which it seems to be overlooking. If it doesn't expect to have a 'clean' house, then it can't ex.pect the students to remain absolutely pure in the meantime. If, in effect, it expects to evolve in the same manner as ·it has in the recent past, then I think the student should be given the opportunity to express his desire to accept responsibility and to demonstrate it under guidelines which will be understood by students, faculty, administration, and trustees alike - guidelines which will be enforced by the students under the watchful eyes of the hierarchy. If the results are distressing, 01 if the pressure of the new freedom becomes overwhelming, rneasures can be taken to amend the situation without a total loss of integrity or prestige. If autonomous rule works, we can be very fortunate to have been understood, and dealt with in a just manner. Fall Weekend Exaufted As liquid Bacchanalia We should, nevertheless, listen and seek opinion and understanding in the interim. The faculty may not be as clirectly affected by such a change in our social rules, but they have a valuable asset in having been through many of the same questions of judgement before, and can take an objective · view of the possible consequences of such a progressive move on the student's part. The worst thing for the student body to do would be to defeat its purpose by hastily adopting a new program without considering its full implications. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER AI the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 -.to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 by Larry Friedman For those who may have missed the proceedings, here is a short recap of the exciting events which made up fantastic, frenetic Fall Weekend. The Bacchanalia began exactly one week ago, when the first fraternity ''tapped in\ thereby initiating the festivities. In most circles, the heavy drinking didn't start until Wednesday morning. By Thursday evening, the campus was in a mild state of euphoria, and ready to move into the real action on Friday. Friday night entertainment was highlighted by the First Annual Union-Slddmore Talent Sh<>w, which seemed to feature Union more and Skids-less. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students --========~~=====-~ Down to Louis', I et us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-89·17 However, the three people who witnessed· the show said that it was very commendable, especially in its avant-garde lighting techniques. Frat parties followed in which drunk townies held a running battle with the valiant, but boozed, Bums Guards. But things quieted down early, and the roisterers stumbled off to bed around two a.m. Saturday morning dawned with numerous pre-game cocktail parties camouflaged as brunches. A heart-rending gridiron contest followed, after which numerous students were treated for frost bite and trench mouth. Post-game cocktail parties carne preparatory to the night's highlight: Judy Collins. The concert was especially enhanced by the dulcet tones of those campus warblers who took their places outside the windows of Memorial Chapel. 1 For three Generations.'· Those Who Know ••. Have been .-ecommending - In addition, Miss Collins had · to plead with th~ll'Qience t~ · cease its thunde1&Us second ovation. They just weuld not let· her leave the stage. · After the concert, parties once a.gain ensued, keeping campus and town police on their· toes. Not wishing to appear ha.lf-hearted, one fraternity\ acquiesced to a raid b~! Schenectady's Finest to put the·. crowning touch on a royal evening. • Sunday morning came in a . deluge, but perhaps it was fol the better, as it washed away the hangovers and the memories. ' And it is rumored that a n· uutLv<>.u of hoases will be tapping in next week in preparation for ·. upcoming wondrous Winter Weekend. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ''3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY Sl. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY A Bri!)a~ To Aj Brigadie Nichols, U~ speaker at of Union 1 545, Air F< The ann for ·6:30 p at Walhalla Gen. N of the Ai Ground El Installatior located at Base, Rom1 GEEIA Lo.gisti organizatio installation ground tronics eqt has been a Noveml;ier Prior command, Seventh A Vietnam. 1 of Wasl University, Staff Colle College. Gen. N pilot witl hours of J the Pan military d< Can lnte \Sex o topic of month': Dialogue Bacon H t Sunday, r p.m. The ai held mon campuses, students closer to current in; College include l College < College < Union, Hudson, Seminary Angels. Leon\ of the c New Yor Brothers, Old Chai \The Neg The B1 1 their rec' Since th three yea1 such pro service, a free wee] labor con union. j. The m interest indicate• moveme Californi~ Chavez b} sell Califo Wl Before The Brotl demand When son them con police housing, begin acti The B politically their ow Albany co-operat1 J with the J mutual ga The a< the Newrr

obviouS> what the d, therP and the eloped as, and I) some practices, fits o~ \ colonists tell in your • thft! i. win the!· you: war- j abou 1l •· .end, ' brilliant ' himself · •· by ill-fed, soldier!IJ ! · forgave :. them . , Valley •. honestly , would ; on a : o '1. he sea, but lose the convinctil' very get out aide the time~ De yes, drug t from the 00 oceanic 19, > his mer~ I formally ' he 1 his swor~t f about 1 ~, (IlL Collins had t~ · second not let · · parties on their · to appear fraternity raid b~ to put the a royal • came in a . it was fol the memories. · a UU.lUU'<>-\.1 ) AF Plans For ROTC Candidates -Foreman Walt Mathias Retires After 21 Years Bri!J adier Gene~a:t Nichol; To Address Dining fn Friday Brigadier· General Franklin A. Nichols, USAF, will be the guest speaker at the annual dining·in of Union College's DetachmeHt 545, Air Force ROTC. The annual event is scheduled for ·6:30 p.m. Friday, Nov. 15, at Walhalla Country Club. Gen. Nichols is commander of the Air Force's Worldwide Ground Electronics Engineering Installation Agency (GEEIA), located at Griffiss Air Force Base, Rome. GEEIA is the Air FDJce Logistics Command's organization for the engineering, installation, and maintenance of ground commuBicatioHs-elec- tronics equi{'lment. Gen. Nichols has been at this command .since Noveml;ier 1967. In Vietnam Prior to his present command, he was chief of staff, Seventh Air Force, Republic of Vietnam. He is a 1940 graduate of Washington and Lee University, the Armed Forces Staff College, and the Na~al War College. Gen. Nichols is a command pilot with more than 4,300 hours of flying time. He wears the Parachutist Badge. His military decorations include the Distinguished Service Medal, :Silver Star, Legion of Merit with 'One Oak Leaf Cluster, and the Distinguished Plying Cross with three Oak Leaf Clusters. All Union ROTC cadets, members of the 545th Detachment Staff, and a number rof guests from within the college ;community, will attend the dining-in. Dr. Styles At Cortland . SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ---Dr. T'witty J. Styles, assistant professor of biological sciences a.t Union College, will be tfue principal speaker Thursday at a .colloquium for the biology cl:epartment at the State University College at Cortland. The colloquium is entiHed \Bacterial Endotoxins and Parasitic Diseases.\ Prof. Styles has been a member of the Union faculty 'Slilce 1965. A 1948 graduate of Virginia Union, he took his doctorate at New York University in 1963. Campus Sex: Topic Of lnter-Collegi.ate· Dialogue \Sex on Campus\ will be the topic of discussion at this month's Inter-Collegiate Dialogue to be held in Roger Bacon Hall at Siena College t Sunday, November 17 at 2:00 p.m. The aim of these dialogues, held monthly on area college campuses, is to bring college students in the Tri-City area closer together on topics of current interest. Colleges which take part include RPl, SUNY, Albany College of Pharmacy, Siena, College of St. Rose, Maria, Union, St. Anthony's On Hudson, Russell Sage and The Seminary of Our Lady of Angels. Brothers Leon Van Dyke, co-ordinator of the controversial Northern New York activist group, The Brothers, will speak tonight in Old Chapel, at 8:00 p.m. on \The Negro in the Community.\ The Brothers are known for 1 their record in social action. The ••Intercollegiate Dialogue\ now a few year's old, has evolved from an irlter-faith, religiously oriented program to a secular one. Past discussion topics include the art' of loving, the role of the Church in bringing peace to the world, music and what it means to our society, hypocrisy in Church and in society. All topics are selected by a steering committee composed of representatives of the colleges mvolved in the dialogue. Topics are designed to keep participants aware of today's ideas and issues. The principle aim of the dialogue is to provide a vital link he tween the area college students ·.in 'an atmosphere of .creativity, mutual understanding and diverse attitudes. This atmosphere serves to broaden ,the education of the participants by allowing them to mingle with persons their own age who have diverse educational backgrounds and interests. All students in the Tri·City uea are invited and encouraged !to participate in the dialogue. For further information on the discussions contact: Al Mangold, 251 Fox, at 372-9190. Since they began operations three years ago, they have set up such programs as a tutoring service, a housing committee, a free weekly medical clinic, a labor committee, and a welfare ' union. The extent of The Brothers' interest in social action is indicated by their recent movement to assist the California crusade of Cesar Chavez by boycotting,stores that 1 sell California. grapes. Wait For Demand Before acting on. social issues, The Brothers wait for a concrete demand in the community. When someone seeks help from them concerning a problem like police bwtality, inadeq_uate housing, or rent control, they begin action. The Brothers have also been politically active. They hav:e run their own candidates in the Albany elections and have co-operated to a great extent J with the Liberal Party to achieve mutual goals. The address is sponsored by the Newman Club. Now's The Time To MARRY ME Jackie's ot the altar ••• , How About You. Signed The Greek Buy your Wedding Ring or En· gcgement Ring at Maurice B. Graubcrt & Sons Jew.elers, 166 Joy St, Two- Year Progra,m Application Now Being Accepted in Hoadley WaH Mathias, Union's machine shop foreman, will retire at the end of this month after 21 years of service. 194 7 in the basement 0f Carnegie Hall on the Union campus. The ex.panded shop is now in a separate building behind Carnegie. When the n.ew Science and Engineering Center is completed, 1entatively in late I 970, the shop will again be Applications for entry into the Two Year Air Force Officer Training Program, featuring six weeks of Summer Field Training, are now being accepted by the officers and staff ef Union's Air 'Force ROTC Detachment, located in Hoadley House. Potential candidates fer this program have until March l to fill in the applicatioH forms and take the required tests. The first Air Force Officer Qualifying Test will be given on November 16 at 9:00 A.M. in Hoadley House. Arrangements for taking the examination may be made with the staff at the ROTC headquarters. The basic requirements for entry into the two year program is tha·t the student have two years rematnmg before grad l!lation. Entry into the Professional Officer Course is on a competitive basis. Applicants must pass a written exam (the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test), the Air Force medical evaluation, and be selected by an interview board composed of Air Force officers. Summer Training Two year program applicants must successfully complete a six. BLITHER week Field Training on an Air Force base next summer. Norm ally, candidates from Union have gone to either Keesler Air Force Base in Mississippi or to Pease Air Force Base in New Hampshire. The summer camp training {'lrovides the necessary ba6kgrom~d to enable the new cadet to fit in smoothly with the other cadets in the Four Year Program. At no time during the summer does the trainee have to malce a definite committment to the service. In September, he will come int0 the corps at the same level as other students in his class. He will also draw $50 a month f0r expenses from the Air Force. At this time, Air Force Officer Training School for college graduates is closed to all e~cept pilots, navigators, and astronautical engineers. College ROTC programs are providing the only openings for students in teres ted in becoming officers in the Air Force. During his years at the college, Mathias, an associate in mechanical engineering, has seen his shop grow from four Walt Mathias machines serving civil and mechanical engineering to 24 machines handling the machine work of the whole college. Mathias started at Union in moved. Teaching In addition ~o performing the usual duties ·Of a machine sh <JP foreman in industry, Mathias has taught courses and labs, assisted students with their projects and faculty with research, and has served in a consulting capacity_ Mataias began teaching in 19 5 I and continued wiH1 laboratories in metallurgy aJJd strengtn of materials, as well as a shop c<»urse, until 1961. He now teache~ two sections of a mechanical engineering course in manufacturing methods. The shop force consists of three fulltime men and three student aides, with Mathias in charge. Construction Much of the shop's work consists o~ 'qonstructing n~w pieces of eq_u\pfnlent or parts for existing equipment frorn drawiags. Students needing eq_uipme n t for specializ.ecl projects will bring drawings to the shop. Student Cou11cil M!eeting Report. • • (continued from Page 1) members, nominated by the proposed, which would aim at the student body, would be houses and approved by the providing some entertainment or created to appoint members of Senate, is also proposed. Their cultural event each weekend. other committees and to oversee function would be limited to Tne Judicial Board, consisting the actions of these organs. purely fraternity matters. of five members appointed by A Tax Committee, headed by An Independent Committee, the Committee on Committees, a chairman, with a secretary and consisting of three independents, would have the power to h~ar one other member, would also would deal with matters that disciplinary cases. Decisions of Gilbert Cass a teacher at be created. The Committee's pertain to independents only. the Board would be appealal:Jle Harvard Architecture School will responsibility is to the Senate, to Should either t?e IFC or to the student-faculty_p!_scipJjne meet with interested students in which it must report every two Independent Comrruttee act on Committee, which would have Hale House Monday, November weeks, according to the mat~ers that the Senate six students, if the faculty 18th, at 10 A.M., todiscuss proposal. considers to be the concern of approves the plan. Architecture and Architecture as all students, the Senate would In addition to having students aCareer. To.replace the IFC, an IFC have the power to take _thos~ on the Discipline Committee, . . comnu!tee, made ~p of all matters out of the committees the faculty must approve the Film workshop will meet at fr.atermty house presidents ~nd hands. proposals made to have students 7:30 P.~., Wednesday, stxteen other fraternity A Social Committee is on any of the other jo-int November 13, in Silliman Hall .. r••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ... •••••••·• committees. Work on the film Scenario will ';.' .- -. .. .JI __ • -• A_ ~ I Should the faculty approve commence. I ~ AI..J'JI#-'~- I the plaJJ, six students would sit I ' .,.,.,..,.\?' I on the following joint Schenectady area Scout • A_,..,. 41~ _~. ~ • committees: Admissiom, troops need help from Union I ~~~ I Athletics, Curricular Affa1rs, students. Interested men should • • Comprehensive Educa ti<Jll . . ' contact Mel Pearce, stock room • • Lectures and Concerts, Libnuy, manager, chemistry. I 1 . t \dl relatt'ves an·d I Securitv, Campus Development • n response o a rapt y pets- All • d R j_· · A t\ - 1 · • decreasing numbe of t masternieces may be handed to an e IglOUS c lVl tes. The Mohawk Valley Chess • C d\ . . r b req~es. s, .,.. .• The faculty will be asked to oncor 1ensts lS exu erant m tts - any member of the Facsimile staff Club in Utica has challenged .• 1 f th r· .• allow six students to sit on ihe U . d announcemen o e •Jist or placed in the Concordy - . mon stu ents to a tournament. • A a1 F . il P +~, c t t • Standtngs Comrruttee when Th . t t d sh ld . k • nnu acsun e oe~.r ones _ mailbox, Student Activity Office. • 1 . . b . d 'd d b ose m eres e ou pic • P. will b ded ($ 15 fl • po Icy 1s emg ec1 e , ut i10t dates for a contest and send • • ..,Jinztes$' 7 fio e award d 25 otr Of the entries thus far • when tile standings of individua.l th . d . . us . r secon an cen s submitted the judges are having • d . I d eJr ecJsJOn to: . I each for the next 12.) Entries great trouble distinguishing I stu ents are mvo ve · Mr.NorbertOldam • maybeofanystrainofthebard's between fortune cookie • 1545 Seymour Ave. • . . • Uti N y 13501 • art and all entries from hruku to versification and haiku that • ca, · · ; villanelle to doggerel to epic to inadvertantly exceed the proper I Material rejected from the Fall issue of the IDOL may be picked up by the authors at the Student Activities Office. e nursery rhyme to f01tune cookie 17 syllables. We therefore request • I versification will be considered. that all poems submitted be I 1 The contest is open to all labeled under the category I •members of the College intendedbytheauthor. •. I community, their friends, ; • • • • • • I I ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ·MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts don~ by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 377-4010 Subject to approval, ihe Corruni ttee and Sub-commit tee on Foreign Studies would h:ave three students on each. The faculty will not be asked to allo-w students to be on any committee which deals with · matters that concern the facalty exclusively. ltiE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLAtlo!TERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and ~utmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Lege~l Beverages 428 STATE STREET . 118- 120 JAY STREff

Beat HamUtonl Concordy Sports ··\ ,. Beat Hamilton I •l .1. \A ·Per ~ Vol. 98 Ma1 On ,l In an i1 40 students Reuse loun§ tin answerc ranging fror ~' Asked tees' rece1 on co-educa to think of of the larg' the .college. ment does the size o adopt co-ed' in the size • ' endange:.· tl I the science1 uf. He con \ portion of STRENGTH AGAINST STRENGTH: Saturday's contest against Alfred BW the Gamet Jim Sabella extra point) harried the Dutchmen all afternoon. Ken Pearce (right) passed sciences ar overcome one of the toughest defenders they faced all year, Little All-Ame•ica candidate for two touchdowns to split end Art Jacobs (left) as the Gamet triumphed, 21-7. ~~ .; ~~~:-:.~~!: Biii~G~RIDDERSeb~MO'lf~fDnyt&l:l' BY DUMPING ALFREDP~~2H~~u. \! ~~~~~ byJAYBUTZMAN 7-0 Gamet lead. The Gamet's by fumbles and the miserable turned in another solid JoeJames,whopickedup61 Be at Hamilton,,.! schools in The Union football squad culminated their 1968 home season SaturJay with a 21-7 VICtory over AlfreJ. The game marked the final home appearance of seniors Ed Blechner, Don DeMichele, Joe Grabowski, Art Jacobs, Joe James, Ted Jennings, Ron McAvoy, Doug Mele, Dennis Moffitt, Tom Oberst, Ray Pike and Vito Potenza. The Gamet's record now stands at 6·1; the margin of defeat against Kings Point was six paints, and if Union can successfully handle Hamilton this week, it will also be the margin by which Coach Flood missed a perfect season. In beating Alfred for the first time since 1963, Union reached six wins, which constitutes the gridders' highest total since 1956. A win against Hamilton will equal the seven victory plateau of 1949. Defense Stars Saturday's contest exemplified what Union had been doing so well all season; playing sterling defense. The Garnet limited the Sax.ons to 36 yards rushing and just ten first downs while Steve Ciesinski's two pass interceptions, his ninth and tenth of the season, created two TD's as he scored once and set up another. The Saxon offense found itself only when they trailed by 21 points in the fourth period. Playing catch-up football Bill Eckert began to throw with more frequency and accuracy, averting a shutout on a 47 yard bomb to Fred Gross fifteen seconds before the game ended. The early stages of the first period were marked by effective defense by both units as the Garnet and the Saxons found it difficult to generate any offensive momentum on the sloppy field. Alfred, unable to move on the ground could not get a passing attack untracked, and resorted to a game of field position which was not overly effective as Chris Guerrieri's 27 yard average oil 13 punts would seem to indicate. The big play of the game for Union. was Jerry Ostrander's 34 yard punt return late in the first period. It marked the first substantial return of a punt for Union this year, and it almost went the distance. Three plays later Ken Pearce found Art Jacobs on a post pattern for a second touchdown was set up by conditions generated by the performance at safety. Dave yards on 11 attempts, was It's not very often that the : Union is s Ciesinski's ninth interception at weather. Tbe ball changed hands Gray was extremely effective at physically punishing on Alfred; Gamet gridders win seven games : portion of i the Saxon 40. Pearce moved the seven times on punts and twice defensive halfback with on two successive rushes in the in a season. This Saturday it :. receive ad I He fur club to the 12, with the big play on fumbles. Ciesinski. The linebacking was fourth period, three Saxon men looks like they will, and for \ of Trustees being Larry Syke's 17-yard burst The brigltest offensive display superb as it has been all year, were escorted from the field. those who would like to witness : other prob up the middle on a trap. The of the game came in the fourth with Don DeMichele in the James has been used sparingly this rare event, Hamilton College : . to gather d: drive ended when John Yanuzzi period as the Gamet marched 78 middle along with Russ Ciccotti, this season, as he suffered an is less than an hour and a half He voi fell on a Pearce fumble at the yards to 1heir opponent's two and outside linebackers Ron ankle injury early in the away by car. .,, . -'scanty ret1 18. However, Alfred gave the yard line in 15 plays. The key McAvoy and Joe Grabowski. campaign. For all but the most ! co-educatic ball right back on a punt, and play came on a 22 yard aerial to John Burton and Kevin dedicated fans, the trip to tees took t with just 11 seconds to play in Dan Gould, who made a Monahan at ends were excellent, Clinton is the only opportunity 01 , of concern the half Pearce hit Jacobs on a spectacular catch to bring the and Tom Oberst and Tom Duffy The Union squad which to see the gridders on the road The al 1 beautiful outside move which ball to Alfred's 34. From there performed ably in the middle of travels to Clinton Saturday will this year. Every other away of a quest b f ll t th Ri h S issue of \S: was set up on a nice pump fake Union moved to the 2, as senior the defensive line. Perhaps the e near u s rang ; · c wan game is at least three hours Martin for a 16 yard TD. Jacobs had Joe Jatnes displayed his most distinguished defensive returns and Ostrander's injury distant. •· would mak' seven receptions on the day for devastating power. On a fourth operative was Saxon linebacker does not appear to be serious. Basketball is not the only sarily the 6 7 yards and two scores. He down fr0om the two, Pearce Bill Assenheimer who combined Doug Werth was injured late in sport where playing at home is at their Jm narrowly missed tallying two rolled left and threw into the with the weather to keep the .the Alfred contest and will most an advantage. A long bus ride, Asked others in his farewell appearance end zone for Sykes. The pass Garnet's score down. likely miss Saturday's game. unfamiliar surroundings both on ations in si at Alexander Field as he was ruled incomplete :in the end the field and in the locker ident said i dropped an Ostrander option zone as th.e diving reception was H p rooms, and the usual lack of students to pass and was missed on a post by nullified, 1lte ball having fallen 00 n r en. ares crowd support make winning on Pearce. to the giound as Sykes landed. r r the road difficult to say the He ad faculty go' decide to student cor Sykes Leading Rusher Eckert could not move the le.ast. A big Union crowd Sykes led the Union rushers Saxons out of trouble. On the by HENRY FEIN Rit Galucci, who also looked certainly would not hurt the with 68 yards on 18 carries. fourth play he called Steve impressive as a freshman but Gamet's chances for a victory Ostrander netted 41 on 12 Ciecinski cpaped the victory by The Garnet hoopsters have who was lost for much of his Saturday. carries before sustaining a intercepting a downandoutand begun to round into shape for premiere season due to A win against Hamilton will bruised rib which caused him to going 29 yards for the final their December 3 opener at academics, is not yet with the give the Garnet a 7-1 season, the ,, miss much of the second half. Garnet taiJy of the afternoon. Harpur. Practices have been held squad. Rit is, of course, still a first winning mark since the Pearce played a fine game, The Camet defense was on at best a haphazard basis, as member of the Garnet gridders, 1956 gridders were 6-2. The last hitt,ing on 16 of 30 for 139 excellent and itisonlydeserving Coach Chris Schmid is still and will not be available for team to win seven games for yards. to mention each member of this primarily involved with his basketball until next week. Union was the undefeated 1949 The third quarter was marred unit. Sop>homore Paul Ramsey duties as the defensive assistant Galucci's replacement last year, squad, which rang up a 7-0-1 to head football coach George Bob Berger, is still a question slate. 0 One s jent elect: tration an< lots as registratio Later Martin wa change in discussion ensued, M dent's se:l! Flood. After this weekend's mark. fmale with Hamilton, Coach Schmid will be able to resume ....... ------------, GR-ID STATISTICS ..---.- .......... ----------. 11 '·tory are RUSHING: Player Rushes Yds.Gd. Ycls. Loss Net Larry Sykes, FB-HB 125 482 -11 471 Jerry Ostrander, HB 100 481 -39 442 Joe James, FB 79 303 - 7 296 PASSING: Player Att. Comp. Yds. llacllnt. TDs Ken Pearce, QB 189 94(50%) 929 12 6 RECEIVING: Player Caught Yds. Gd. TDs Conv. Rich Swan, SE-WB 28 264 L 0 Art Jacobs, WB-SE 18 172 4- 0 Dan Gould, TE 16 201 .() 0 Jerry Ostrander, HB 14 104 l 0 Craig Carlson, WB 9 137 () 0 Steve MacKenzie, WB 6 28 0 0 SCORING: Player TDs Conv. K Conv.R·P FG ' Art Jacobs, WB-SE 4 0 0 0 Jim Sabella, K 0 15-16 0 2-8 Joe James, FB 3 0 0 0 Jerry Ostrander, HB 3 0 0 0 Larry Sykes, HB 2 0 0 0 INTERCEPTIONS: Player Int. Yds. Ret. TDs Steve Ciesinski, DHB 10 151 l Paul Ramsey, DHB 4 39 0 Ave. TDs 3.8 2 4-.4 2 3.7 3 Conv. 0 Pts. 24 21 1'8 18 12 full control of the basketball squad. Although there have been few formal practice sessions, . the team is beginning to take form. Coach Schmid will go with Bill Boehmke or Rich ·Heiden at center, with returning lettermen Bill Neidel and Cliff Feldman at VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 Union St. FR 7-1283 the forwards, backed up by Jim TT TERRACE Getman. Jeff Kirkpatrick and 200 NO . · · · ·.· .. Frames and Lenses Replaced Warren Mumford look to be the FR 7-98 34 Prescriptions Filled starters in the backcourt. Bacldng them up are Barry '------------.,o~ Fitzgerald, Dave Shames, and Barry Katzman who will add sorely needed depth in the backcourt. ,DIAMANTE'S ·Enjoy· Our Fine Hqme Cooked ltalic;an Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 10 toP 1 A.M. Sundays S P.M. to.\ 1 lfi..M. FUN WORKING IN EUROPE GUARANTEED JOBS ABROAD! Get paid, travel, meet people. Summer and year round jobs for young people 17 to 40. For illus- trated literature with complete details on programs offered and . how to apply,. write; ISTC, Admissions, 866 U.N. Plaza, N. Y., N. Y. 10017. II He sa responsibi to protect to protect the reside thought o:l the class r He si students a college a Stu Stu del ;Rusty l stu dell Tuesdaj orial Cl ICUSSiOn posals Council 1 restrict •to revis ' . A str ·~of those rules p1 dual li, 1 ;in their 'jrestrici

'I .I_ \A Causa Per sa :Parole · Assai\ V o I. 98 No. 1 ·4 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., NOVEMBER 15, 1968 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Martin Responds To Questions On Co-Ed, Parietal Hours, Sex Manker May Be Impeached By Student Council Members by Ala11 Klein take the stance, \Nobody knows but One student asked if the institution me.\ ·of a graduate program would mean Several of Union's Student Council members have begun serious plans to vote student body president Rusty Man- ker out of office, a spokesman for the group of student leaders said early this morning. In an informa;l meeting with about 40 students Wednesday night in Fox House lounge, President Harold Mar.- tin answered questions on subjects 1 ·: .· ranging from co~education to parietals. .,. , ~' Asked to comment on the Trus- tees' recent deferment -of a decision I . on co-education, Martin asked students ,,,:· to think of the matter in the context r of the larger problem of the size of the college. He stated that the endow- ; . rnent does not necessarily go up with the size of the college and that to adopt co-educationwithout an increase in the size of the student body might endange:.· the c0Hege's reputation in the sciences. He contended that a smaller pro- portion of girls would major in the sciences and that some of the science , departments would as a result of ser- q, · •, ious shortages of students, have to reduce both the number of faculty and the number of courses offered. ., I ' ' ,,.) that the games it ~~. and for n witness ~ C allege ' a half ~,, most trip to 01 the road away hours the only t home is bus ride, both on locker lack of on say the n crowd hurt the .. a victory \ will the ,, since the The last for ated 1949 a 7-0-1 Six.tll In Nation Martin bolstered his assertion that Union leads many otherwise superior schools in the sciences, saying that Union is sixth nationally in the pro- portion of its graduates who ultimately receive a doctorate in physics. He further stated that the Board of Trustees is now considering this and other problems as part of an effort to gather data \beyond opinion.\ He voiced disappointment at the .r scanty returns of tlie student poll on co-education and stated that the trus- tees took the poll as evidence of lack of concern about co-education. The alumni will be polled by means of a questionnaire in the November issue of \Syrnposillro.~ Martin estimated that the trustees would make some decision, not neces- sarily the final one, on co-education at their June meeting. Asked about the proposed alter- ations in student government, the pres- ident said that it was 41 a matter for the students to decide,\ Committees He added that both student anc faculty government may soon have to decide to whom the new faculty- student committees report. One student suggested that stu- ::lent elections be held during regis- tration and that students receive bal\ lots as t h e y pass through t h e registration line. Later in the two\hour session Martin was asked about the proposed change in parietal h_ours. A lengthy discussion of sex on the Union campus ensued, Martin asserted that a stu- dent's sexual actions in the dorrni- ... 11 'tory are \other people's business.\ Replaced people. For illus- and N. Y., He said that the college has two responsibilities as a landlord: first, to protect its property and secondly, •• to protect its rep11tation. He added that the residence balls ought not to be thought of as entirely separate from the class meeting halls. II · II Oberlin Cited He stated that the sex mores of students are a proper concern of the college and that students ought not Student Meeting Student Council President ;Rusty Manker has called a ·student body meeting for Tuesday, 11:30 a.m., in Mem- orial Chapel. It will be a dis- , cuss ion of th.e r e c e n t pro- posals to the All-College Council concerning parietal 1 restrictions and the proposal ·to revise student government. A straw vote Will be taken ~of those present on new social rules proposal making indivi- dual living units autonomous }n their formulationofparietal restrictions. He added, \I can't agree that that professors would have less time to clear promiscuity and the constant spend with undergraduates. Martin presence of women in the dorms pro- answered that the college was estab- vide a healthy academic environment.'' Ushing its graduate program \slowly He pointed out that the experience and carefully \ and that it was well of Oberlin Callege in Ohio indicates aware of such a danger. He said that that the more wide open the rules, the graduates might teach honors research more pregnancies occur. projects in the sciences since in many The social rules are, according to cases they know more 'about cantern- Martin, in part designed to combat porary laboratory techniques than the the \pressure for participation and :professors do, (Photo by Larry Friedman) PRESIDENT HAROLD MAR· TIN answers students' ques- tions WedJtesday night in Fox House lounge imitation that builds up in a college dormitory.\ Asked to anticipate what sort of social rules Union might institute for women, Martin said that although many colleges and universities operate under separate sets of rules for men and women, he did not want to make sucn a division here. Schedule Change Martin said that he foresaw no significant changes in the compre- hensive education requirement, but .tllat he hopes to establish a program in which a \free group\ would enter .the college with no course require- ments at all and graduate when a special board thought that they were well-educated. The trimester system is, accord- ing to Martin, under Mcontinuing dis- cussion,\ Because of it, Union had to turn down an invitation from Vassar to participate in a term-long exchange. Union is the only school in the Albany area which uses this system. Were this not the case, more Union men might make use of a consortium which allows students to take courses at uni\ versities other than their own. T h e president s aid that the Science and Engineering Complex is due for completion in the fall of 1970 but that work is behind schedule. He enyisaged a solution to the college• s parking problem by means of peripheral lots. He stated plans to hire a profes- sional security officer to control theft and vandalism on the campus. Land Sought He said that the college would like to buy the land tothewestofthe college b11t that the small average size of the lots there makes the acquisition un- feasible without city help. The college bas bought some land to the east of the campus, but the area is zoned for one-family dwellings only. The spokesman said Mr. Manker will be impeached at a student body meeting, possibly as early as next week, for \making a farce out of stu- dent government and disabling the stu- dent body.\ Specifically referring to the reor- ganization of student government, the spokesman said \We want student gov- ernment to be a viable organization on WRUC Names Cusimano Head Of Operations Charles Cusimano' 70, forrnerSta- tion Manager of WRUC, has been ap- pointed acting President of the station to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Robert Killian .. WRUC's E&ecutive Board, corn- posed of P au 1 Jacobson, Program Director; AllenBrailey, Business Man- ager; Dick Roth, News Director; and Bill Kern, Technical Director, voted unanimously for Cusimano• s appoint- ment. He will serve until the end ofthe winter term when regular elections are held. Cusimano has worked on the radio station since his freshman year.J ser- ving as Traffic Director, Business Manager, Program Director, and most recently Station Manager. Cusimano said he expects no radical changes in the format or basic set-up of the station. The position of Station Manager will remain vacant for the present time. The proposal to build an FM sta- tion was not put before the Board of Trustees at its meeting last week. Cusimano said this is still in the planning stage, but he hopes action will be taken during the winter term. The proposal must go to President Martin before it is presented to the Trustees. Leon Van Dyke Presents Black Militant Case Toward Conservatives,Moderates,Liberals by Harris Ginsberg In the seventeenth century \the ship \Jesus\ brought the first load of African 'black gold' to American shores,\ said Leon van Dyck, co-or- dinator of the Albany \'Brothers at a meeting sponsored by the Newman Club, to discuss the \black\ man in the \white\ community, on Tuesday, November 12. \Sharks followed the ships looking for the black slaves to be thrown overboard.\ My ancestors, he stated, \were brought here to work,\ to live in huts, to eat, and to be beaten. ''You can fool some of the people all the time, and all the people some of the time, but you can't fool all the people all tbe time,\ but the white man has tried in the UnitedStates for the past two hundred years. The Negro is \threatened by the conservatives\ who emphasize «law and order\; he is \threatened by the mod- erates\ who tell him to \be patient, freedom can• t come overnight\; and he is told by the liberals to be \non- violent.\ To the conservatives, van Dyck said, •we will use any and all weapons at our disposal.\ To the moderates, he said \you be patient; our patience has worn thin.\ Finally, to the liberals he said, \if you are really concerned for our welfare, then go to the police department. Teach them non-violence. Talk to yo11r neighbors; teach them how to love. Give us justice; you will have law and order.\ The b 1 a c k man wants \good schools\ ugood housing\ and \ade- quate food\ -NOW- \we feel we should have gotten it yesterday.\ The Negro composes 10% of the population, which equals 41 10% of power\. Whenever van Dyck used the term \by any means necessary,\ he meant \by violence\ I One student asked whether the people were \shifting leadership from Martin Luther King and Abernathy to Stokely Carmichael. • \King\, replied van Dyck, \has more support now\. The \general feel- ing\ is that the 1 'tactic he tried was much more appealing to the oppressed.\ On the other hand, \Carmichael has an appeal to the frustrated, disen- chanted young people.\ He says what a \kid who goes to school Wouldn't say to his teacher,\ \Oppressed people don't fight until they're up against thewall.\ The recent riots \emphasized the problems of Harlem and Watts to the Northern communities.\ Most people would \much rather go to non-violent rallies anyways.\ \If riots keep going on.. • either give people proper housing or we kill them!\ Van Dyck advocated that the nation should stop <4exploiting people around the world\ and build houses; \a lot of things could be done\. About the younger white gener- ation, van Dyck felt that 11 as a whole, college students are very moderate in their ideas\. He would like to see a. group of students help the poor, but, as the \bourgeois blacks are afraid of the poor blacks\ so too \white college students are scared .of the poor whites\. For· the black youth, van Dyck suggested that the government sub- sidize \on-the- job-training programs,\ When a black soldier returns hvme from war, \it's the same old shit: he can't get a job! This generation of black youth is more important than ever.\ Concerning the government, van Dyclc said \I'm against capitalism; it is the most corrupt system I know of\. Supporting this statement, he said that he \admires Castro\. When confronted with the integra- tion problem, van Dyck answered, \Whites can't even live with white folks. Whites will live with blacks- an different levels.\ Some white peo\ ple, he stressed, believe that \by (Photo by Mark Lichtenstein) LEROY VAN DYKE expounds Black militancy just being friendly, they should be patted on the back.\ As for the white girl going with the black boy, who does she think she is - \Jane Liberal?\ Quoting Eldridge Cl~aver at RPI last month, van Dyck said: \Black power to black men, Yellow power to yellow men; Brown power to brown men, White power to white men, ALL POWER TO ALL MEN.\ campus.\ He accused Mr. Manker of dealing with the reorganization issue in the wrong way. The move for impeachment was reported to have begun more than two weeks ago when the Student Council was informed of governmental reor- ganization intentions, then more than a month underway. The issue apparently came to a head following; the fourth and final meeting of the Open Committee for Con- stitutional Revis ion. Wednesday's meeting was highlighted by several controversies. One dispute was over the executive of the new organization, whether it should be one student body president or a president as well as a Senate chairman. A close vote resulted in the latter. There was another dispute over the legitimacy of the process for voting on the revision proposals. One Student Council member present said the com- mittee \had no intentions of passing the new constitution through the existing constitutional means.\ The spokesman for the impeach- ment of Mr. Manker said a petition was being circulated today to call a student body meeting; 50 signatures are required. It takes at least 2 00 votes and two thirds of the students present t0 recall an officer of the student body. A studeat body meeting has already been called for Tuesday at 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. The spokesman did not say whether the impeachment would be brought up then or whether the other Coll:ncil officers would be impeached along with Mr. Manker. Constitutional Revision Plan Nearly Complete S tude n t Body Secretary Danny Aronzon reported today that the pro- posed new constitution for the Student Body will be finished Monday and that copies will oe distributed to members of the college community later in the week. A procedural question has arisen which may delay decision on the gov- ernment revision plan, It is possible that before tile proposal can be sub- mitted for referendum that it must be cleared l>y the All College Council. Student Government leaders will meet with President Martin next Wednes- day to settle the question. If All College Council considera- tion is deemed necessary, the plan could be held up in committee or defeated outright. In the event the Council approves the plan_.the way would be cleared for an early student vote on the matter. Should it be decided that All Col- lege Council approval is not necessary the plan could be presented to the student body without delay. Contingent on the outcome of the dispute are Freshman class elections which have been postponed once and are tenta- tively scheduled for November twenty- fifth. If the student body approves the new proposal a faculty vote must also affirm the plan. The provisions of the reorganization include the stipulation that students shall have the right to choose student members to Faculty- Student committee s-a right the Stu- dent Body does not currently possess. A Faculty vote on the issue could not possibly come before next term. Mountebanks The last two performances of the 1 'Andersonville Trial\ are tonight and tomorrow night, at 8:30 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theater. Admission for Union Stlldents is free and dates will be admitted for $1. 00. The play received very good re- views in the \Concordiensis and 1 'Knickerbocker News,\ and the \Albany Times-Union\ called it \· .. a fresh, uncluttered presentation by a group of actors who have obviously dug deep to evolve tllei~ interpreations.\ It went on to praise Henry Weil's directing and called Michael Riley's portrayal of Wirz, the commander of Anderson- ville, \· .• an excellent exposition of the character.\

Published Tuesday and FrLday dur· Ina th\ school year by the Student Body of UmonColle~e, Schen.,ctady. N.Y. Natwnal Adv.,rt1s1ng Repr\· a\ntatlvc: National Educational Advert1ung Serv1ce, Inc .. Coll.,ge ,Publ1ohers Representatl\·e, 360 Le,ungton Avenu~. N.Y. C. Edltor!Dl Ofhce, Old Gym, Umon College. p ubhc au on OHice. Wh1te· hurst Pr1ntmg 1t. Bmdmg Co., Inc .. 416-41B' Flfth Ave .. Troy. 235-4450, Ent<red tn the Sohenectady Post Off•o\ a• Second Cla~s MaLl Matter. SubscnpHon 20¢ a copy; $6 a Y\er dehv\r\d anywhere m the Unlled States. SENIOR B@.ARD D. Peter Drotman '69 ................ 346·8614 .......... Editor-in-Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 .. , ............ 346·99 7 3 .......... Editor-in-Chief Richard Lewis '70 ................... 346-1932 ....... Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ................... 372-8541 ........ Managing EQ.itor Allen Gartner '71 .................... 346·8067 , ........... News Editor Paul Andrews '71 .................... 393-73 78 ......... Features Editor Leonard Simon '70 .................. 372· 7227 ........... Sports Editor Paul Farnham '70 ... : .. ............. 377-0329 ........ Associate Editor Alan Klein '69 ...................... 372~7718 ............ Copy Editor Bored of Trustees! The twenty-three men on the Union College Board of Trustees (twenty-four, if you count Gov. Rockefeller Trustee Ex-officio) can generally be ' . characterized as prosperous, ta,lented, highly moti- vated, successful, middle-aged professionals. Indeed, were any of the twenty-three lacking in any one of these qualities, it is highly unlikely that he would ever have been elected to the Board to begin with. The compensation for serving; as a Union Col- lege trustee is purely honorary~ including only the self-satisfaction the man derives fr.om implementing his own high moral purpose, performing a service to higher education and the presti~e centered .around the title of the trustee of an ex:clusive, trad1tional, northeastern, men's college. By virtue of their position a.nd their generous support of the various College ftm.ds, no one can doubt the trustees' legal and financial r ig;ht to govern Union College. However, proficiency and, indeed, compe- tence in one field (e.g. law or business) do not neces- sarily reflect the same qualities in other areas (e. g. education). Union College is not big b11siness; it is an or- ganic community of human beings. The trustees should most certainly be a respected part of that community. However, their relevence is slowly dis- integrating. For as the rest of the community creeps toward dynamism, the Board remains virtually homo- geneous and unreactive. The trustees wield great pov.rer at Union. Their decisions are both far-reaching and final. Neverthe- less, they rarely take initiative. The current discussion of co-education is a case in point. The Faculty Com- mittee report on co-education ha.<i a sense of urgency about it. Additionally, the faculty unanimously ratified a recommendation that women be admitted to this school by next fall, if possible,. The trustees have already made this contingency impossible, because they feel that they need more data. A decision can not be handed down until June at the earliest. It is gratifying to note that our trustees take such an avid and thorough interest in the issues facing the College community. On the other hand, it is quite disconcerting to note the reaction-time of the Board. Were the trustees ezperts in the field of education? something we feel that trustees ought to be, we suspect that they would have anticipated tlle co-ed issue, rather having it delayed by a full year. Although we respect and commend the Board of Trustees for their efforts in behalf of and interest in Union College, we are not entirely convinced that the qualifications and credentia,ls they possess are the most applicable to the task to which they are called: the governance of an institution of higher learning. Cons t i t u ti ()11 At least two major issues will be brought before Union's student body for discussion next week. One is a proposal to give each living unit the power to formu- late its own parietal restrictions; the other is a proposal to abolish Student Council and the Union Inter-residence Council and replace them with a more representative and efficient Student Senate. Neither of these proposals has been formally presented to any legitimate student committee or the Student Council, so this newspaper is at a loss to com- ment specifically upon them. We do, however, endorse the general ideas behind the proposals which will be made public next week, that of unit rule for social rules and that of participatory .democracy in student government. Despite the strength of the general pro- posals, we caution students mt to _lose sight of their specifics. Two of the most important issues regarding stu- dent power in the history of Union, they should not be taken lightly. If Tuesday's student body meeting, the first of the year, is not well attended, the student power movement at Union is dead before it starts. Letter• Officers Write Scrutiny for Leaclers To the Editor: In one of the most deplorable acts I have witnessed in my two years at Union College, the Stu- dent Council \decided\ to post- pone freshman class elections, because of the officers' use- lessness if the majority report of the new constitution is passed. The majority report of the pro- posed constitution has no provi- sions for class officers. When this action was chal- lenged, the Student Council \de- cided\ to take no action on the unconstitutional t> o stponeme~lt since the legal da.te had already passed. Do two wrongs make a right? Compounding the mistake does not remedy the matter. Furthermore, I do not feel that it is in the best interest of the present Student Council to take for granted that the proposed constitution will be passed by the student body, an attitude im- plicit in their actions. I therefore request that the election of class officers be held immediately. The President of the Student Body sh0uld take it upon himself to set up the pro- cedures for election and conduct them at the earliest possible date. Although total vindication can never be realized, this gesture might begin to convince the stu- dents that the Council and its leadership is a group that knows the limits of its powers. EDWARD J, BUZAK President Class of '70 Weekend Report To the Editor: We were extremely surprised to discover that \Concordiensis\ left the reporting of Fall Week- end up to the credulous mind of a freshman. Accurate reporting is an art in itself and we will admit that it is much easier to write a travesty. Thus we would like to clarify a few misrepre- sentations First of all, we would like to thank Donald Kessler and the members of his committee who did an outstanding job on the talent show. Thev snent an enor- mous amount of time searching for talent and making the many specific arrangements for the show. As far as attendance, we believe that Mr. Friedman over- looked about 200 people. We would also like to commend all those who worked on the com- mittees especially p r o g r a m, tickets, ushers, lighting and sound. The sound system made Miss Collins' beautiful voice even more pleasant to listen to. Fur- thermore, we think she deserves much more recognition than the \campus warblers\ who were. given :m equal amount ·Of copy. WILLIAM DAWSON President, Class of 1971 JAMES KADAMUS, Vice President * * * * EDITORS' NOTE: We were sur- prised that the organizers of the concert refused admittance to two •concordiensis\ photograph- ers and a reporter. Judy Col1ins presented one of the finest con- certs in years at Union, but we didn'.t see the point in developing blank film. We remind our read- ers once again that the opinions expressed by columnists are not uecessari:ly those of the editors. Nor are they meant to report the news. Frosh Electlon:s To the Editor: Student government .at Union has long been in need ofrejuven- ation. In addition to being frag- mented as a result ·of three separate governing bodies, ithas failed to be representative )>e- cause constituencies themselves are spread out. The reorganiza- tion o.f this system,therefore, is a very necessary step if Union is to progress at all in this field. This process of reorganization could very easily be carriedout within the existing structure. of the Student Council if the present officers of that body would exer- cise effective leadership. If this had been done there would not have been a need for the com- mittee which is presently con- cerning itself with this problem. Instead, the officers of the Stu- dent Council and a few other individuals under the guise of the term •interested students,\ took it upon themselves to begin this reorganization. The ques- tion here seems to be one of legitimacy. This group seems to vacillate between its role as \interested students\ and stu- dent body officers as this ques- tion of legitimacy arises. This lack of effective leadership and the apparent farce that some seem to want to make of the existing system of government, is having a disabling effect on the student body. It is my opinion that a vote of confidence be re- quired of the student body for this committee in order to answer this question of legitimacy. If the student government is to be revised, this revision must take place at the top as well as the bottom. If the system is to undergo the scrutiny which it apparently already has, not even the authors of the new system should be exempt from this scru- tiny. Sincerely, CRAIG J. BAUMER President, Class of1969 Vinitk~ Men's Shop Spec1al1sts in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street at Lafayette DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Park & Shop Free Perking Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. - Sun. 8 A.M.. to 9 P.M. rii.;-;.;;;;;;.-;-----------1· Fraten !What Makes Trustees Run? l.·To Ch f llv Larry F.rl·ethna:n A i\ by E ________ ..., _____ ....._,..._:,.}. .\ .. The recent move by Union's In addition theDavidsonEnter- , · Somethin~ trust~es to defer the co-educa- tai:nment Committee-Union In- · unnoticed d1 tion :ssue to i_ts •Long Range .terresidence Council was thought .. ! briated afteJ Plaruung Committee\ has promp- to be workl11g for co-ed. Never- ! t Union upse1 ted irate studen_ts to form the theless, this . proved to be r 1 Saturdays : \Ad Hoc Committee to Shorten heresay, when it was found that ' victory, thai the Trustees' Long Range.\ the D.E.C.-U.I.C. was just plan- and 15 your After thoroughly reviewing the ning their Big Bash #5; or was I',. homes who~ report of the Niemeyer Commit~ it #6? -~ tee on co-education, those bas- Then there is the All-C~>llege ;;s ::ens~~ tions of the business world Council which has been dis- t college's G: decided that instead of coming tributing questionnai-res to de- •. 1 1 : . ties, Delta right out and saying that they termine whether or not their last And not jt thought co-education was a rot- student p o 11 was successful. f munity resp ten ide a, they would let it Latest word is that the response \ implicit-bu moulder for a while until the has been minimal. ; , 1 .. ·. . whelming : angry activists amongthestudent Too busy depletingb1:1dgets, the houses' des body either forgot about it or Student Tax Committee has had kind of thip! graduated. litle time to ponder the question. debated arg However, there seems to be a So, to those incensed students ' ties are cat: ray of hope emanating from a who w:mt some action on this ) · than seduc number of 'groups around the affair from ·the trustees, andwho societies tt: campus in resolving the issue. are sick and tired of the apathetic giastic ritu: Great optimism has been ex- spirit which has permeated the ~ :\ John Di< pressed by reputable sources school, there is perhaps one organized tl that a majority of the Student answer: look at where the Trus- the day wa: Council may soon attend a meet- tees went to college! and that hi: ing. There is even aunsubstanti- .,,1' large Chri: ated rumor that the officers BLITHER orphans lab might show up. Unfortunately, Due to a lack of student inter- And Inte their reorientation to college Pres 1 ·ctent : tt ld tak ths . 1 est, Larry Pedowitz, leader of rna ers wou e mon , 1 th C charge of 1 t e ommunity, has postponed ··• no years. Wl'th -the Ch the Convention untU after the For some time it looked like Fall term. the brothe: the Inter-Fraternity Council responded ~ would make some sort of policy * * * * * dren's pres statement regarding the co-ed Israeli students at Hillel will for more < debate; however the I.F.C. has hold an informal get-together in the maid been preoccupied with a Campus tonight at 7 :ao in Silliman Hall. Among th Turkey Shoot in preparation for Wine, cake and Israeli dancing -~ ,. . •dinners a Thanksgiving. are on the agenda. ThanksgiviJ , Easter. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European AtJnosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State ancf Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th YEAR for reservations phone FR 4-8917 _.,.... ______________ _ Scottish Plaid Sport Coatings 1968 AoD. They're a bold, new bt·eed. Clan less, very much with it. And isn't it about time the Scots wove a bit of poetry into their choice wool plaids? Come see what Deansgate's flawless soft shoulder tailoring has done to them. Hoot Mon -you'll do a Highland fling when you see these sport coats.$65. Deansgate\ Apprehen ~before the sters that: ever, for r proven disE arrived anc whose prirr Skidmore < , also plans : ·l . a pre-gam r cocktail p~ morning. And one ;c;uess as t icated host and partie whose hor for that vel Apprehel into confid however, f• ·. ers mana€ selves fro guests had A typic~ one p on Nov. 5 youngster She! ter, proudly eli atop the l And after girl Ieadi their date: is Blue.\ There i: order to elsewhere to have to an image' fiable but· •ll less. There i: that if Un tinue with ~minded ac a giant stE and savin1 ling into o .. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. WELCOME AGAIN 2 or more SHIRTS ••••• 2~ ea. \PANTS •• 49c SUITS •• 98c Dambrose ·Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank Dall's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UNION STREET ------------------ Why N House Tric Buy yo

• ·Fraternities Begin U ·n?l ··· ·r c h \' I a : . t , o · anile mafl e - a:n~· ~i -- !\ I by Bruce Husten .' Something ·significant went ion In- . · unnoticed during the proud, ine- s thought · ! briated aftermath of the stunning Never- ! . t Union upset over Williams two to be ' ·1 Saturdays ago. Witnessing the that victory, that is, were 30 orphans plan- and 15 young victims of broken ; or was \·· , homes whose presence at Union -~ was sponsored, believe it or not, . bY none other than two of this dis- t college's Greek-letter fraterni- to de- • i : . ties, Delta Phi and Psi Upsilon. last And not just the civic and com- t munity responsibility-which are ; , 1.· _ =~~~!~;bu: u ~n::~ds th~d o~~h the has had question. students on this andwho the - houses' desire to do more ofthis kind of thipg, testify to the often- debated argument that fraterni- 1j . ties are capable ofbeing far more than seductive, sordid social societies that house weekly or- l giastic rituals. ~ ! :\ John DiCocco, in fact, who aps one 1 organized the orphans' stay, said Trus- r the day was a complete success inter- of the illel will HalL dancing less, it about into oot Mon ats,$65. , and that his house is holding a \'I large Christmas party for the . orphans later ·in the term. And Inter-fraternity Council President Dan Mead, who took .,, charge of making arrangements with the Children's Shelter, said the brothers of his fraternity responded so warmly to the chil- dren's presence that future plans for more of the same are also in the maldng. Among the pos~ibilities are .. ,1· . •dinners and/or parties at Thanksgiving, Christmas and , Easter. Apprehension saturated the air the arrival of the young- sters that fateful Saturday, how- ever, for not only might it have proven disast:r,ous if the children . 1 , arrived and found apathetic hosts whose primary concern was their Skidmore dates, but there were also plans in the making to stage a pre-game coup by beginning cocktail parties early Saturday morning. And one might only hazard a ;c;uess as to the effects of intox- icated hosts upon young orphans and particularly upon children whose homes have broken up for that very reason. Apprehension quickly turned into confidence and satisfaction, however, for the fraternity broth- . . ers managed to restrain .Utero- selves from indulging until their guests had depal'ted. A typical scene at the game one pictured in \Concordy\ on Nov. 5-that of a handsome youngster from the Children's S he 1 t e r, megaphone in hand, proudly cheering for Union from atop the shoulders of his host. And after the game, a shy little girl leading the brothers and their dates in a chorus of •Love is Blue.\ There is little question that in order to survive, at Union and elsewhere, fraternities are going to have to change their image- an image which might be unjusti- fiable but vrm&l exists neverthe- less. There is little further question that if Union's fraternities con- tinue with such civic, cqmmunity- ~minded activities, they are taking a giant step in the right direction and saving themselves from fal- ling into oblivion. Now's The Time To MARRY ME Why Not Hilve a White House Wedding? Tricia. is still available. Buy your Wedding Ring or En· gogement Ring at Maurice B. Graubart B Sons Jew.el ers, 166 Joy St. --- Letters To The Editor: Part II P,ARIET AL HOURS To the Editor: This Tuesday at 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel there will be a meeting of the Student Body to discuss .and vote on a proposed change in the parietal hours. It is my belief that the proposal will answer an possible objec- tions except 1 for one. The sole exception is that of the lack of .student interest and support for Stich a move. The only means of countering such an objection is to have a large attendance at the Student Body meeting. If there are less than two-thirds of the Stu- dent Body present at the meeting, the proponents of this objection ery well may be justified in their belief. NEAL J. Gordon '69 Representative-at-large ACC ROB INSDN COMEDY To the Editor: Phil Robinson ranks with Cur- tis LeMay and Richard Daley as one of the great humorists of our f;j:me. MARK C. BOYLAN COMFO'RTABILITY To the Editor: A fine example of the need for elimination of class officers, and the need for the setting up of a social committee to serve all year long is Fall Weekend. Cer- tainly an experienced committee would not oversell the Chapel as Mr. Dawson did. Let's ratify the new Consti- tution and mal{e ourselves com- fortable. LEN SIMON '70 To the Editor: It was a wonderful Fall Week- end; however, I am left with one or two questions. Has the average size of the Union Student or his date in- creased? 0 r were too many tickets sold or given away to the concert? Surely after paying six dollars for tickets a Union stu- dent and his date have the right to sit comfortably. What happened? The capacity of the chapel is 1400. Didn't anyone tell the Sophomore Class Presi- dent? LARRY PEDOWITZ '69 BRIDGE CLUB A m e e t i n g of the Student- Faculty Bridge Club will be held at the Hale House Faculty Lounge Tuesday, Nov. 19th at 7:45p.m. Anyone who wishes to participate is invited to attend • The results of the last tourna- ment, held Oct. 29, follows: :first, Michael Fishman and Steve Kirschner; second, Prof. Ketch- um and Mr. Usher; third, Pete Siegal and Mitch Barden; fourth, Prof. Bacon and Prof. Goodheart. \Ye happen to be im·olved in one of the fastest growing fields in the world. \ \'ho won't be content to just sit around until they get a gold \vatch and a pension. operations studies are explored. ·whether you lean toward designing electronic switching systems for our tele- phone companies or the development of electroluminescent devices for Sylvania, we think we have a place for you. Communications. And because we also happen to he growing right along with it, \\·cneecl people who can think for thcmseh·es when they are handed responsibility, not become con- fused by it. Individuals. The kiHd of people to whom a challenge is a goad, not an excuse. There's a lot to he done. Interesting, provocative \Vork for almost every kind of engineer and scientist. For example, in our Applied Research Laboratory, the newest sectors of theo- retical and applied research in the areas of mathematics, physics, computer systems, electro-optics, information systems, and On one condition. That there are no strings attache,d. General Telephone & Electronics Sylvania Electric Products • Lenkurt Electric· Automatic Electric Co. • Telephone Companies in 33 States • General Telephone Directory Co.· GT&E Labc.ratones • GT&E International

Beat Guess Who? Concofdy Sports Seven And One Grid Finale at Hamilton Tomorrow by Gary Prevost Tomorrow a:fternoen in Clin- ton7 New York against the Con- tinentals of Hamilton, the 1968 Garnet gridders will attempt to complete a 7-1 season, which would be Union's best since the undefeated 1949 squad. A triumph would also move the Garnet within one victory of equalizing the 78-year series between the two schools. Hamil- ton have won nine of the last eleven games to g-ain a 31-29-12 advantage. The number of tiss and overall closeness of the rec- ord make the Union-Hamilton rivalry one of the most evenly matched in college football. The only Garnet win since 1956 came in 1965, 46-22, when Tom Hitchcock crowned a great car- eer with four TD passes against the Continentals. Hamilton tri- umphed 15-10 last year, as the Garnet competed without eight players (including six starters) who missed a Friday night bed- check. In spite of the handicap, the Garnet outplayed the Con- tinentals, who were 6-1last year, rolling up 35 0 yards total offense, but failed to overcome a number of costly mistakes. ~wan Returns The Garnet are buoyed by the return of wingback Rich Swan, who made a remarkable one- week recovery from the mumps. Jerry Ostrander's back injury in the second half of the Alfred game did not prove to be serious and he will be in the starting lineup. Only sophomore center Doug Werth, injured on the last play of the Alfred contest, will be missing. Bill Birns, who has alternated with Werth, wiil play the full game tomorrow. 1968 has been a disappointing season for the Hamilton Contin- entals, as they enter tomorrow's contest with a 2-5 record. The victories have come against two of the weakest teams in eastern small college football, RPi and Middlebury, by small margins. T h e Continentals rallied with three touchdowns in the fourth period to stop RPI, 35-32. A blocked punt 7 a fumble, and an interception were responsible for the three scores. The margin of victory against the Panthers was 18-14. The five losses, however, have been by a total of only 34 points: Rochester (14-6), Hobart (12-0), St. Lawrence(14-7), Wes- leyan (10-8) and Kenyon of Ohio (17-12). The Coo.tinentals' basic prob- lem has been the offense, which has produced 1041 yards in seven games. Hamilton has used four signal callers, and Saturday's starter Paul Waible, a con:ver_ted ·~·.···,· .... · .. . ' . - <' ·'. •• .. ' iJ t LARRY SYKES will be one of the men Hamilton will have to stop if it has hopes of upending the Garnet. Sykes needs 137 yards to break the season rushing record. ECA C Honors 1 acobs-- Team Fifth ECAC and Lambert Bowl hon- ors continued to pile up for the Garnet gridders this week. Sen- ior split end Art Jacobs became the Dutchmen's fifthECAC choice in the last six weeks, and Union moved from seventh to fifth in the Division III rankings. Jacobs, reC'ognized for his two- TD performance against Alfred, follows the selection of Larry Sykes (twice), Tom Oberst, and Doug Mele. Also nominated for their performance against Alfed were Ken Pearce and Steve Cie- sinski. C iesinski is closing in on an NCAA season mark of twelve interceptions, but he has yet to make the ECAC weekly team, because the selection ofDefensive Back of the Week is basically an offensive award. Last week's winner returned punts for a total of 158 yards and one touchdowo.. Last week, after remammg seventh in the Division In ranking following the Williams victory, the Dutchmen were surprised to learn that they had been ele- vated to fifth. Following the Wil- liams game's seventh place fin- ish, Director of Sports Informa- tion Richard Sine sent letters to all eight members of the selec- tion committee. Those letters, combined with the loss by number t h r e e Trinity to Amherst, accounted for the rise. Union's fifth-place rank was helped by a first place vote from one of the eight sports writers. If the Garnet are victorious tomorrow, they will probably re- main in the fifth spot. The four teams in front of Union- Wilkes, Kings Point 7 Albright, and Frank- lin and Marshall-shonld all win their final contesta1so. ACCUTRON CALENDAR \B\ 14K gold. Waterproof•. Gilt applied figures on gilt or silver radial brush dial. Lu· minous dots and hands. $200.00 That's the most an Accutron® timepiece will gain or lose in one month. And we'll guarantee it.t Accutron looks like a watch. But it isn't. It doesn't have a mainspring, a hairspring, or a balance wheel. Accutron has replaced them with an electronic-powered tuning fork. It splits each second into 360 equ~l parts .• And makes the Accutron timepiece so precise, it wont gatn or lose an average of more than two seconds a day. 428 STATE STREET end, has completed only 18 of 66 passes, while having eleven intercepted. The one spot in the Continental backfield is senior halfback John Effinger. The 175- lb'er has rushed for 445 yards on 131 carries out of a total Hamilton rushing offense of 464 yards. Last week at Kenyon, while Waible was throwing five interceptions against four com- pletions7 Effinger carried for 127 yards and two touchclowns. Tile other setback is sophomore Pete Margolin, who has been ineffective thus far. Completing the backfield is junior wingback HOCKEY by Bill Holleran Tile hockey season at Union College began very early this morning as fifteen early-bird members of the Hockey Club traveled to theR.P.I. FieldHouse to scrimmage an Engineer club team at 6:00a.m. This morning's scrimmage was the first organ- ized workout of the season for the pucksters 7 and is the first in a series of 22 ice dates slated for the R.P.L rink. Things are shaping up beauti- fully for the coming season, as the Union skaters find themselves with an abundance of icetime for the first time in quite a while. In addition to the 22 dates at R.P.L, more practices will be scheduled at the nearby Niska- yuna rink. The sextet has also scheduled six games-four \home\ games, to be played at R. P.l. against fraternities and local clubs; and two away games, at Hamilton on Jan. 29, and at utica College on Mar. 1. There is also a possibility that the pucksters might play in a Pitts- field, Mass., club tournament early next year. Practices at R.P.I. will gen- erally be held on Friday or Sat- urday nights 7 from 11 to 12, although during the week of Jan. 24-30, there are four practices, two \home\ games, and one away contest scheduled. In practices and scrimmages, all players 7 regardless of ability, will get icetime. For games, however, Rich Brown, who is the leading pass receiver wit~ 16 catches for 255 yards. Hamiltoo.'s ovvrall defensive strength is good, but the Con- tinentals have been far more effective against the run than the pass. RPI and Wesleyan, who have good passing quarterbacks, had a field day with the Con- tinental.secondary. The defensive line, led by senior Erik Siebert and Charles Reppun, has throt- tled the running game .of several opponents. Wesleyan had a total of minus seven yards on the grounds against the Continentals. Comparative scores make the Garnet a distinct favorite against the Continentals, but the weather could be an equalizing factor. Clinton received about six inches of snow early in the week, and it was plowed from the field yesterday. Even if the field has not received any more snow be- fore tomorrow, it will definitely be in a p0o:r, muddy state. On a muddy field, the Garnet will have more difficulty moving the ball, especially t h r o ugh the strong Hamilton defensive wall. Slippery conditions would also negate the Dutchmen's outside running game. As a result, the Garnet can be expected to put the ball into the air more often a g a i n s t the porous Hamilton secondary. Poor field conditions will not help Hamilton 7 except that some of their razzle-dazzle plays might be more effective with the chance of a defensive back sUp- ping increased. Hamilton has long used \junk plays,~ but nineteen- year head coach Don Jones may lack the personnel to do so this year. Hamilton also could have an experience advantage in the snow, having played its game against Kenyon in a blizzard. Congratulations DENBY'S Now in Stuyvesant PLAZA Plus Two Stores In Downtown Troy only the best skaters will play, ~=========:::==~ r--· VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 NOTT TERRACE FR7.9?~:. JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATii& FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legcll Beverages 1 HI - 1 20 JAY STHET ZEl~LMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CI.EANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hottie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ___________ $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4 Lb. Min.-------_ 1.00 20 lb.------------ .35 DRYERS 30 lb.------------ .50 1 0 Min. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . 10 SIMON SEZ by LE.N SIMON Tomorrow's football game With Hamilton has all kinds of meaning for all kinds of players. First and foremost, the gridders are trying to win their sixth in a row, and close the campaign at 7-·1, which would be the best football record here since 1949. Secondly, the team hopes to be the first Garnet grid team to win at Hamilton since 195 6. Finally for the team as a whole, the matter of revenge comes into play. No varsity players have enjoyed a win over Hamilton, as the gridders fell 15-10 last season and 30-13 in 1966, For twelve seniors, the game will have the added meaning of being their last football game in college. Headed by co-captains Tom Oberst and Ron McAvoy, the seniors are Dennis Moff'itt 7 Ted Jennings, Art Jacobs, Ed Blechner 7 Doug Mele, Joe James, Don DeMichele, Ray Pike, Joe Grabowski, and Vito Potenza. Potenza sustained an injury against Williams, reinjured it against Alfred • · and will not \see any action.\ Shattering record books will be of interest to several individuals also. Joe James will have his last opportunity to add to his career rus11ing record, which now stands at 1,489 yards. Sopho- more Larry Sykes needs 137 yards to break Jim Ramich's season rushing record of 607 yards. Rich Swan, returning after a week's absence, needs one more touchdown reception to break the career record of nine he now shares with Marc Hurlburt. Steve Ciesinski has already broken the college record for interceptions iri a season, but needs two tomorrow to tie the NCAA college record of tw·elve. He has been nominated for Little All- America. Should Steve make that honor, Union will have landed two in as many years, with Rich Swan being chosen for honorable mention last year. Credit has already been given to thegridders for their commen- dable 6-1 record thus far, but possibly even more is deserved. Many fans and players expected the football team to win this year, and win it has. However, how many would have expected such a season had they known in advance of the loss of Skip Lynch, Steve Bauer, and Andy Anderson for the season due to grades? All three were important cogs in last year's 4-4 squad. Further, who would nave expected such a season if it was known that Craig Carlson would miss more tb.an six games? Others who have played have missed contests with less major injuries. Rich Swan was lost of one game, Tom Oberst for one, John Burton for two, Kevin Mona- han for two, and Jerry Ostrander for one contest. Joe James has also been ineffective in almost every game due to a bothersome leg- injury. Just the injury to Ostrander may have cost the Garnet a perfect season. His outside speed could have made the difference in the 19-13 loss to Kings Point. It is indeed quite an accomplish- ment, and a fantastic exhibition of depth, to win six of seven games \ under these conditions. Frank Felts, Tom Duffy, Art Jacobs, and Steve MacKenzie have all come off the bench to fill in more than adequately. All in all, the 1968 grid season will be one to remember. ,. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 E11joy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, In.c. 447-451 Stote Street Our 61 st Year in Downtown Schenectady The Hamilton dosing ou against a played c condition being mor Senior Ron MeA for the G Joe Jame Doug Mel Ted Jenni Perhap the succ Pearce-Ri, was so ~ Sabella's toss to l factor, as reach. outstandi mud mac especially The oppositio Hamilton Bulwarke limited tl ground, 1 came su . Union. The F second c Museum.: at 8:30 Memorial Takinl fifth ann of Presi< 'concert memory. ~ The g ~;minor ( ' and p Metomo Oboe,\ E-flat ~ Clarinet, Piano,\ Clarinet, and \Qu for Obc Horn an1 The begins i the Ne'A From tl distingl more t1 the Unit As oJ

\''A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ Mini D Yes - Poll D No Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., NOVEMBER 19, 1968 PRICE TWENTY CENTS kinds of ~ gridders Lmpaign at ince 1949. !am to win the matter )yed a win and 30-13 neaning of o-captains :offitt, Ted ames, Don L Potenza nst Alfred lndividuals his career Sopho- h's season ·r a week's the career ~ecord for ! the NCAA Little All- tave landed ·honorable r commen- ; deserved. 1 this year, cted such a vnch, Steve Rich Swan races 80 yards far one of his two toachdowns in Union's 22-13 season-finale triumph over Hamilton at Clinton. The Garnet wound ap 7 and 1, the ·-\\·-'\\'\T season in two decades. ? All three •. who would tig Carlson Jlayed have was lost of evin Mona- James has Jothersome b.e Garnet a ! difference .ccomplish- even games \ ~rt Jacobs, fill in more :11 be one to Photo by George Kaplan. Gridders Defeat Hamilton; Record 7-1 For Season Tile Garnet gridders downed Hamilton 22-B at Clinton Saturday, closing out the season with seven wins against a single loss. The game was played on a field in the worst condition imaginable, with the mud being more than ankle deep. Senior co-captains Tom Oberst, and Ron McAvoy played their final contest for the Garnet, as did Joe Grabowski, Joe James, Dennis Moffit, Ray Pike, Doug Mele, Art Jacobs, Ed Blechner, Ted Jennings, and Vito Potenza. Hamilton opened the proceedings by marching 80 yards in eleven plays, largely on the power of the converted end Paul Weibel's aerials to Bill Weiden and Dick Brown. The big play was a 46-yarder to Weiden after Garnet star defensive halfback Steve Ciesinski slipped in the mud. Pete Margolin crashed in from the one with 5:581eft in the opening period. Erik Seibert's extra point made the count 7·0. Both squads were unable to move on the ground through the game; Hamilton (Continued on page 4) Impeachment Action :Dropped; Proposed Constitution Debated by Alan Mell impeachment plans. The others who interested students. _If was an wanted to take this action, he said, anorphous group, wn1ch had no The Student Council's dismission, were Ed Busak and Craig Baumer, definite plan~ on how to carry the 1 a st night, of impeachment Junior and Senior Class Presidents, proposal out. proceedings against the Student respectively. Council officers, reached a climax Mr. Dawson said that they were when Bill Dawson announced that he considering impeachment because of and the other two class presidents no the way in which the Council officers longer thought the recall action was were handling the proposed necessary. constitution. All three class preside?ts Rusty Manker called the meeting felt that the proposal was bemg \to discuss the proposed \railroaded\ througll, without prop~r constitution,\ but that discussion was consideration by the Student Council. bogged down when some members of Mr. Stillman pointed ou~ t~at, the council requested written copies of under the present constitutiOn, the proposal, which they wanted to amendments can be made witho~t study before discussion began, at some Student CouncH approval, 1f future date. two-thirds of the students at a student A m()tion was then passed, tabling body meeting approve the debate og the constitution until next amendment. A quorum, consisting of Monday. However, within minutes, at least one-fourth of the student another motion was passed, which body, must be present. called for immediate discussion of the A second charge against the officers \uncontroversial\ sections of the was that they had acted illegally wherr proposal. they postponed fresh.men elections, When tllese sections were which, according to the constitution, presented, debate broke out, and a are to be held on the second .Tuesday, third motion was passed, tabling following the first Su'nday in further consideration of the November. constitution until another special session of the Student Council, which has been scheduled for this Thursday. With the constitution out of the way, the Council turned to the report, in last Friday's Concordiensis, that some Student Council members were planning an attempt to recall Mr. Manker, as well as Vice President Jim Stillman and Danny Aronzon, Secretary. The ensuing flurry of charges and countercharges centered around Bill Dawson, Sophomore Class President, who stated that it was he who had in formed C oncordy of the Mr. Stillman took responsibility for the postponement, stating that \I was not aware, at the time, that the constitution stated a specific date f!Jr elections.\ He added that the elections would be held as soon as possible. At the beginning of the meeting, the longest and most heavily attended this year, Mr. Manker had announced that the committee which was formulating a new constitution, was now a committee of the Student Council. Previously, he said, \the committee was nothing more than a group of The creation of a Student Council committee to consider the constitution, Dawson stated, was exactly when he had wanted all along. Nevertheless, the discussion of the short-lived impeachment plans continued. The debate deadlocked over the two conflicting views, one that the Student Council officers had mishandled the drawing up of a new constitution and the other that the class president's action, in talking publicly about impeachment, was too drastic and apparently not serious. A Student Council memner, asked that discussion of impeachment, which he felt was becoming vindicative, be dropped, since the Council co\ild satisfy itself with Dawson's statement that he had abandoned his original plans. In the discussion of the proposed constitution, a problem arose over the question of equal representation. Senators would, according to the proposal, represent an average of thirty students, with a senator coming from each fraternity house, each section of a donnitory and from off-campus residents. Perhaps the key to the victory was the successful return of the Ken Pearce-Rich Swan combination that was so devastating last season. Jim Sabella's ad lib two point conversion toss to Larry Sykes was another key factor, as it pat the Dutchmen out of reach. The defense performed outstandingly as usual, although the mud made the work of the secondary especially difficult. 700 Cheered Down Parietals Don Kessler, •71, proposed a lower and upper limits on how many students a senator could represent, because, he stated, some fraternity houses have more than 40 brothers living in the house, while others have less than 30. He and other Council members contended that one senator per fraternity would thus create unequal representation. 6-9744 ; ktail Bar The Dutchmen faced stiff opposition in their final encounter, as Hamilton was keyed for an upset. Bulwarked by a defensive line that limited the Garnet to 34 yards on the ground, the Continentals hit hard and came surprisingly close to beating . Union. By Larry Friedman With five people voicing opposition to a change in the present parietal structure approximately 700 students expressed approval for the All- College Council Committee's recommendations for a new social rules system in this morning's meeting at Memorial Chapel. Neal Gordon, chairman of the committee, outlined the arguments in favor of changing the parietal rules. Festival Winds To Present ·'Kennedy Memorial Concert The Festival Winds will present the second concert in the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series at 8:30 p.m. Friday, Nov. 22, in Memorial Chapel. Taking place on the evening of the fifth anniversary of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, the 'concert will be dedicated to his memory. l The group will present ••sonata in F ~:minor, Op. 120, No. 1, for Clarinet and piano,\ Brahms; \Three Metamorphoses After Ovid for Solo Oboe,\ Britten; \Piano Quintet in E-flat Major, Op. 16, for Oboe, Clarinet, Bassoon, French Horn, and Piano,\ Beethoven; \Trio for Oboe, Clarinet, and Bassoon, (1938),\ Auric; and \Quintet in E-Flat Major, K. 452, for Oboe, Clarinet, Bassoon, French Horn and Piano,\ Mozart. The history of the Festival Winds begins in 194 7 when its predecessor, the New Art Wind Quintet, was born. From that time through 1959, this distinguished ensemble performed more than 500 concerts throughout the United States and Canada. As of 1959, however, these original five members of the Festival Winds, feeling more and more inhibited bu the quintet repertoire, .determined to enlarge the ensemble sd as to make possible the performance of a far more varied, select and valuable repertoire. They chose to call the new group the Festival Winds, and invited some of their closest colleagues from the New York professional music world to join them in this new endeavor. The Festival Winds are now comprised of the fmest woodwinds players in the United States. They perform a repertoire which is unique throughout all of the Western World with combinations of from four to nine artists (flute, two oboes, two clarinets, two bassoons and two French horns.) They have premiered many new (e.g. Quintets by Villa-Lobos, Irving Fine, Jean Fr~ncaix) and many old (e.g. Mozart Divertimenti, Haydn Partitas, Handel Wind chamber music) works in the United States; nave performed repeatedly on sucll distinguished series as the Library of COngress in Washington, D.C. and the Lincoln Center's Philharmonic Hall in New York City. Siting Union's endorsement of student academic responsibility Gordon said that the ACC Committee \Strongly endorses the need for public regulations. We prefer, however, that those regulations be legislated and enforced by the students whenever possible.\ Discassion from the floor was highlighted by a comment by George Gardner who said that because students are violating the existing social rules they lack the responsibility to protest those rules to President Martin. A stand-up vote was then taken to determine the opinion of the audience. When the students were asked to voice approval of the Committee's proposal, all bat 5 rose, cheering their enthusiasm. Gordon stated that the proposal will be put to a vote tomorrow evening at the ACC meeting; and that if endorsed it will only have to face approval by President Martin who will at all times retain veto power of the system. Emphasizing that there is a discrepancy between the social lives of those students living off campus and those residing on, Gordon said that the present system \does not encourage a difference of opinion on parietal hours.\ · \Union College must have organs\ said Gordon, • 'to make sure responsibilities are carried out.\ Therefore he defended the need to retain the President's veto in this situation. , . Another council member presented · the possibility of having fractional voting in the proposed Senate, with each Senator having a number of votes proportional to the number of constituents he represents. No decision was reached on this last night. Mr. Dawson complained that the proposed method of selecting senators discriminated against sophomores, because they are in a minority in most dormitories. Tile final debate, which also ended without a decision, arose over the proposed provision that resident advisors and house presidents cannot become senators. Selective Service Objector Tells Audience Vietnam War nUnjust, Idiotic, Illegal, lmmo.ral\ by Randy Sutter Brook Smith reported this morning to the Federal Building in Albany and formally delcared he would not allow himself to be inducted into the armed .services. Then he left for home to await trial for his actions. \I am refusing induction because the war is unjust, idiotic even in power-politics terms and conducted in an immoral and illegal manner. I am a selective objector,\ Smith told a Hale House audience yesterday. Smith is a twenty-three year old graduate ·of Wesleyan University wheere he majored in history with an emphasis on modern European politics. Until the end of last term, Smith was a full time student at the University of Chicago Divinity School. On December 4, Smith announced his intention not to cooperate with the draft during a worship service in Chicago. He subsequently turned in his draft card arid rejected his 2-S deferment. In May, Smith received a delinquency note in the regular mail. The next day, his induction call came by special delivery. In Smith's words, \the Resistence Movement is armed not to put people in jail, but to undermine the selective service system.\ He thinks there is a chance that he may \win\ his case. \There have been occasions when judges have said, 'By the law, I must give you two years,' and then suspended sentence,\ he said. However, Smith is ready to go to prison. He could get up to five years, but he thinks probably he. will be sentenced to two years in Allentown, Pennsylvania. He is unconcerned about being fined. Although. he could not pay one, he is confident that many organizations would be willing to do so. Smith has said that he is not a pacifist, but subscribes to a modified \just war theory.\ In his opinion, a justifietl war is a war in defense of the territorial homeland. He also believes it is justified to provide arms but not troops to native revolutionaries. attempting to overthrow the government. Smoth admits, though, that both of these cases are sketchy areas. The concept of a justified war avoids concrete definition. Smith is not sure his action will have any impact. He knows there are no guarentees his refusal to be inducted will result in changes in the draft laws. By confronting the draft, Smith hopes to raise some questions about the legitimacy of the draft.

After One Term: t . ,U'Colle Prov --- A new Dea.n reflects, comments ... ~ '> . I I \1 By Steve Levy I• Dean of Students Edward adequa-te, enforcement is a Malloy Monday c:lass.ified problem. \I don't consider present social rules at Union myself a policeman who goes College as liberal, but said he looking in rooms\ and at the remains open-minded toward same time \1 want to make sure change, thought the plan for the college is J.il.Ot used as a s t u de n t go v ern men t boarding house.\ Asked if he reorganization made sense, and -thought there existed the admitted he would be \nobody knows but f\ attitude disappointed if Student Council on campus, Malloy said he really President Rusty Manker were didn't know, but imagined some impeached. students thought this way. He didll't think the majority were not sit on the council he !; Giving maintains they could be usefuL { .. reassurance Asked if he thought student .l someone wi government re-organization had I any proble been properly handled h~. · the College commented \I don't think that's •· -.: according t for me to say.\ ~ Mrs. Miriarr \I feel that Freshmen ~ ~~cated elections should have been held.·,, ,i,' Buildmg, As wrapped up as the people ' consists, i may be in re-organization the Conable, o present constitution still exists.\ , a Ph.D can Malloy admittecl because of his ' 1 • 's2 Albany and newness and lack of knowledge ! • secretary, ! on the s_ ubject he didn't press ~~ Conable .an the issue at the time. , · .., the Serv~ce <nnnrnr Pubhsned Tuesday and Fnday dur· Ins theo school yeoar by the Student Body of Un1onCollege, Schenectady. N.Y. Nat1onsl Advertlstng Repre· ll!'ntatlve: Nauonal Educat1onal Adveortistng Serv1ce. Inc., Colle-ge Publishers Representatl\e, 360 Lex.1ngton Avenue, N1 ¥. C. Ed>tonal Office, Old Gym, Umon College. Pubhcat10n Office, White· hurst Pnnt1ng & 81ndtng Co., Inc., 416-41·8 F1fth Ave .. Troy. 235·4450. Entered 1n the Sc.:henectady Post Off1ce as Second Class Mall Matter. Subsc!lptlon 20¢ a copy; $6 a year dehvered anywhere 1n the Un1ted Jeffrey C. Browne Editor-in-Chief States. William Ouzer Managing Editor Office Phones 3 77-8613 346-8614 Allen Gartner ... 346-806 7 News Editor D. Peter Drotman Editor-in-Chief Paul Farnham - Associate Editor Alan Klein - Copy Editor Staff - Terry Pozefsky, Mike Crowley, Carl Dietz, Larry Friedman, Harris Ginzburg, Ken Golden, Steve Heller, Steve Levy, Alan Mell, Joe Schwartz, Randy Sutter, Ken Wyse, Gary Yams Paul Andrews ... 393-7378 Features Editor Peter Weingold - Assistant Editor Alan Cohen - Assistant Editor Staff - Paul Markes, Steven Cole, Steve David, Danny Shocket, Bill' Shapiro, Phil Robinson Leonard Simon ... 372-7227 Sports Editor Henry Fein - Associate Editor Staff - Gary Prevost, Michael Reger, Walt Spencer, Stu Moss, Paul Forbes, Jay Blitzman, Bill Holleran Richard Kramer ... 377-2566 Photography Editor Staff - Dave Zapata, Mark Lichtenstein, Jody Saslow, George Kaplan, Mark Boylan, Lru:ry Friedman Richard Lewis ... 346-19 3 2 Business Manager Michael Sirsky - National Advertising Manager Larry Roth blum - Subscription Manager Jeny Levine - Local Advertising Manager Jeff Bim - Local Advertising Manager Parietal Hours Yesterday afternoon the All-College Council Ad Hoc Committee on Parietal Hours met and formulated the proposal which was presented to the student body meeting this morning. That proposal was the product of intense research concerning and a comparative study of the social, moral and practical issues involved in parietal hour revision from the viewpoint of students, faculty and administrators. The proposal, basically, recommends completely autonomous determination of parietal hours by living units. The Committee has wisely decided not to endorse their proposal outright; rather they have made their recommendation contingent upon attendence of this morning's meeting. They feel and we agree, that unless at least one half of the students at Union College are willing to demonstrate thf:ir interest, express their opinion and assert their responsibility toward this issue, there would be little to gain in legislating a system which inherently requires a high degree of student participation. The important points in the proposal follow: 1. a) Each living unit determines its own parien tal hours by 75% vote of its members. b) If no set hours achieve 75% approval, the present guidelines letters TO THE STUDENT BODY: At a meeting last Wednesday evening, a discussion concerning the passage of a new student body constitution resulted in a flurry of ultimatums and threats involving the constitution's ultimate outcome. We, as class presidents, felt that being presented with an extreme situation we were forced to deal with it in an extreme fashion. We foresaw the hurried passage of what we felt to be aH inadequate and inequitable constitution. The result of this feeling was for the recall of the officers of the student body. At that time there were misunderstandings on both sides of the table; misunderstandings which have since been rectified. We sincerely feel that the student body has benefited from this confrontation and that the possibility of any rift that might have resulted has now been eliminated. Sincerely, Craig J. Baumer President, Class of 1969 William D. Dawson President, Class of 1971 To The Editors: AI though President Martin has consistently shown himself to be an island of good sense among some of the faculty, I feel that some of his views as expressed in the Nov. 15 Concordiensis do not stand under analysis. Dr. Martin stated that clear promiscuity and constant presence of women do not make for a healthy academic environment. Nowhere have I heard any student ask for anything such as promiscuous violations of sound rules. In a previous article, Dr. Martin revealed that in the 1920's, 22% of college students p at ron ize d prostitues, while today only 4% do so. This is a clear indication that today's student is more capable of a mature lasting relationship. shall be in effect. 2. a) At the request of any member of a living unit a meeting of the unit will convene to discuss modification of the rules. b) An extension of the hours requires a 75% majority of the unit; while reduction requires 50%. I do not feel that the student stance \Nobody Known But Me\ is entirely correct either. However, neither do I believe that the faculty, deans, etc., know everyh ting too. If we took a look at these so called wiser people for a change instead of the students, we would find them just as \immoral\ and a lot more hypocritical. President Martin used the old scare tactic of increased pregnancies in his article. Simple facts show that the old \nos\ of detection, infection, and conception, mean nothing with the advent of modern science. If 3. Any violation of the first two points entails immediate referral to the applicable judicial c ommittec. 4. If, in the opinion of the Director of Residence Programs, an inordinate number of requests for room changes occurs in any living unit, the Director will advise the suitable judicial body of the pervading conditions and that body will investigate the situation and may take what action it deems necessary, including setting that unit's hours, to rectify it. ·the school wants to make certain rules, fine. Cliff Ameduri, '71 To The Editor: Dean Malloy thought more study was needed concerning any change in social rules, admitting he was \horrified\ when he came here and found three student governiNg bodies; and he said \Rusty (Manker) is a good man.\ College Not A Boarding House Dean Malloy thought J.il.Ot enough attention is paid to the problems that open hours would bring such as interference with study and invasion of privacy. He stated that if a change in parietal hours carne it would have to be approved by himself, President Martin and the Board of Trustees. The fairest way of determining social rules would be by living units, he said. Provisions would have to be made to settle disputes between adjacent living units and accomodate those students whose standards were more conservative than their living units. Malloy wants to see a wide variation of rules determined by living units and said there would be a need for some superior judge in the case of disputes. He thought this could be handled by students. \I would love it if we had an honor system of some sort\ commented Malloy who feels that while present rules are Gt!N.eREW.CO., ROCH .. N,V 5. If, at any time, the President of the College feels that this pariental system becomes detrimental to the social, moral or physical health of the College Community, he may, by decree, revert all living units back to the present system. Coeducation is inevitable! We see no need to expound upon the already familiar arguments for parietal revision such as eliminating the dual standard existing between on and off-campus housing, expanded freedom, and, in fact, delegating to the students the responsibility the Student Life says they have. violating the rules. Asked if the students were wasting time trying to change something the Board of Trustees would never ap.prove Malloy said, \l don't think it's that set\ and emphasized that it was a matter of student responsibility and of making sure nothing interfers with academic pursuits. Malloy does not think the question of parietals should @e deferred until the co-ed question is solved. If there were to be a double set of social rules f(i)r men and women he commented \the girls should have a large measure to say in what they are.\ nine to fiVe A stude On Impeaching Manker of pro bl The move to impeach Mai1ker. ,., Building, v is to Malloy more centered ·On · ·difficult the handling of student l uncertail;lt) government re-org~nization than , . proper ma anything else. \I think tha:t no ~l·' draft or matter how fast he moves he 1 hang-up. can't please everyone.\ i f t\ comented Malloy. He added a ' I' .• a s I r \lot of people don't realize the . . time involved in the job.\ Asked I' p 0 ve I if he planned any involvement in . the matter, Malloy said it was , . , , ~~I o J.il strictly a student issue. 1 participate [ dinner Th Acme Barber Shop ! racism and 1''~-' Craig Baun I the nation: Mr. Bau Class of '6' \· 1 ~ student cc Favored Frosh Elections S09 Union Street communitt Dean Malloy said student j asked stud· government reorganization is . ! money tht necessary and was \delighted to Experienced Barbers dinner to see groups interested in National ~ re-organization.\ He, however, \ Arrangeme does not see any need .to Nearest to Union College '' with Saga eliminate the IFC, the UIC, or Students . 1 stewards o class officers. While they would I He sai< should sig •-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-• · ., Activities 1 1 j evening TAKE THREE\ l : 1 contribute 1 • ·. . organizatic I . For Cocktail Music 1 transfem 1 • combattin I 346-1620 Norman Five! Vibes, Trumpet 1 · 1 37'7-2934 Bob Higgons Drums • 4 ' 1 346-1957 Bruce Husten Piano I ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· 'l. Pron s Henry alumni r~ at Union has been vice pr affairs, ) announce Charle director c placemen Dr. Marti The 1 immediat Swank of Union chemistr) an M.A. State. r faculty i administ1 .. In his . ~ assist in 1 tz federal a: well as departn duties, i the colh MaGil Union. I joined t was rele< 1967 wi ~FOJ Get Jhos Whc Hav· reco On the contrary, we feel that the most significant portion of the outlined proposal • is not its positive aspect, that of self-determination, but the safeguards provided in the articles. These are truly safeguards, not meaningless tokens, We believe that the rights of all members of the College Community will be well served by these rules: and would be remiss if we did not commend the AC'C' committee for its fine research and responsible attitude in this area. Why then will Yale not pursue Union's path concerning coeducation. Kingman Brewster recently revealed Yale's solution to this dilemma by means of a \somewhat precipitate\ decision; his contentions were that immediate steps were preferred to \further abstract study.\ Unfortunately, however, Yale has never emulated Union. ... a little more exciting! t· \3 With Melancholy, John Horwath, '71 Ed Green, '71 FO!

(U'College Counseling .Service Provides Confidential A\id I I \J by Alan Mell 19 5 Interv,iews I· The four counselors have he l; Giving students the already c·onducted. 195 e usefuL ~ .. reassurance that there is always interviews with students this student ,j someone with whom to talk over year, covering a wide range of had ·1 any problem is the yurpose, of major am.d minor personal crises. l.ed. h .. ~ ' , the C~llege ~ounselmg Servwe, Besides being a place for nk that's· •· ,lfi; accordmg to Its Head Counselor, students to go to talk things out, ~ Mrs. Miriam Conable. the Service is there to administer ~ ~~cated in the ·~S~chology vocational tests to those who held.·,, J, Buil~mg, . the ~e.mce s staff desire them and to provide Tists people · conststs, m addlt!()n to ~rs. of tutors fm college courses, the Conable, of three psychologtsts, speech therapy a:nd reading or exists.\ a Ph.D candidate from SUNY at study skills. se of his · 1 , 'fi2 Albany and a secretary· Only the Until this year, the .Service : •. secretary, Mrs. C}ark, and Mrs. administered psychological tests n't press : Conable are fuU.tJme workers at to all freshmen during ' , 1· ·-- the Serv~ce, which is open from Orientation Week. ihe results of nine to fiVe. those tests are available, for any A student can 'bring any type student who wants thern. of problem to the Psych As of this year, the tests will Manker. ,., Building, whether it pertains to be given only to those who want · ·difficultie~ in studying, totakethem. student l uncertai.t;J.ty about choosing the Mrs. Conable strives to keep than proper major or vocation, the the atmosphere of her office tha:t no ·~, ' draft or some other personal warm; personal afld unclinical. he 1 hang-up. Referring to the staff members, one.\ 1 b added a ', f 0 S tin g ( 0 m a t S she observ~d that \N_o one here I • would quahfy as a shnnk. We are the ' . p t R • interested in growth.\ b.\ Asked I' over. y, . OCISm The contents of interviews, in indeed the very fact that a ·d · Uniolil students will tt was. ,, student has requested an ·1 participate in a fast instead of [ dinner Thursday to \combat intervie\.v, are kept strictly · confidential. 1 racism and poverty in America,\ l l''~' Craig Bat~mer, local chairman of the national event said Monday. Mr. Baumer, president of the Class of '69 and chairman of the \' ~ student council committee on communitee affairs, said he has 1 asked students to contribute the . ! money they save by not eating j dinner to the United States f National Students Association. · Arrangements have been made ''I ·with Saga Food Service and the . 1 stewards of fraternities. I He said interested students · should sign up in the Student Those interested in the Harvard Graduate School of Education, especially in combining an academic field with a related field in education, should see Dean Malloy immediately, for furth~r information. The program is seeking better than average students and offers scholarships up to $4,000 a year. -•-• · ., Activities Office by Wednesday I . \, .. 1 evening to have money . contributed to the national • , organization. Funds then will be 1 transferred to organizations Edward Albee will speak at • combatting racism and poverty. Skidmore College tomorrow 1\. pet evening. I Promote Swanker A lost and found department has been established at the Registrar's office in Wells House in response to a request by Prof. Malcom Willison. ) Henry J. Swanker, director of alurrmi relations and placement at Union College for 18 years, has been named assistant to the vice president for external affairs, President Martin, ) announced Monday. Charles A. MaGill, assistant director of alumni relations and placement, becomes director, Dr. Martin added. The positions are effective immediately. Swanker is a 1931 graduate of Union. He took an M.S. in chemistry at Union in 193 2 and an M.A. in 1941 at Albany State. He joined the Union faculty in 1942 and began his administrative duties in 1951. ... . In his new post, Swanker will . ~ assist in the college's liaison with federal and state government, as well as be charged with many departmeri tal administrative duties, including relations with the college's Computer Center. MaGill is a 1 ~62 graduate of Union. Following graduation he joined the US. Air Force. He was released from active duty in 1967 with the rank of captain. ~For three Genf!}rations.' Those Who Know . .'. Have. been ,, recommending : Prof. C. Plesums will speak Thursday night 011 \Generations of Computers\ at 8 pm in EE-24. Refreshments will be served. Film workshop will meet at 8 P.M. on Wed., Nov. 20, in Silliman Hall. There will be a meeting of the Peace and Freedom Party at 8 p.m. tomorrow in SS 014. The coordinator of the Albany chapter of the party will be present to discuss formal organization of a Peace and Freedom club at Urtiort. Anyone interested in helping organize elections for officers and student council representatives for the Class of '72, contact Bill Dawson, 377-0182. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER '\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Report from London: British React to Nixon Election Editor's Note: Richard Patterson, Jr., '70, is a former Editor of Concordiensis. He is currently studying at the London School of Economics. by Richard E: Patterson, Jr. \Who is Richard Nixon, and what does his election mean for us and for the foreign policy of the United States?\ This question, posed by Wiflston S. Churchill, grandson-journalist of the great wartime Prime Minister, was foremost in the minds of Britons and other Europeans soon after t.he ;results of the recent presidential election became knowa. Churchill, in a dispatch to the Evening News frorn New York, felt that Nixon, aware of the isolationist mood of th.e coantry at this time, is likely to ·insist the European and Asian allies of the United States share mme of the burden for Europe's collective defense. Britain welcomes Nixon's favorable view toward European Unity, and Churchill feels that if\Europe pulls itself together and takes collective defense seriously\ the U.S. under Nixon will continue her present committment to Europe. ;Jn the press, however, there have been reports that the Bd t.i sh Government was profoundly disappointed by Nixon's election. Westminister fears that. a shift toward economic isolationism and protectionist trade policies that would darnage the world economy, an.d subsequently the badly battered pound sterling. At a time when the USSR, attempting to maintain the status-quo in Eastern Europe, has invaded Czechoslovakia and threatens Yugoslavia and Rumania, Nixon's \hard line\ on foreign policy, especially in regard to communism, and his ex pressed desire to re-vitalize ' NATO is ,especially welcome here. With the United States deeply entangled in southeast asia for the past four years, Europe has begun to feel a bit Reglected and has begun to feel less secure in her protection underneath the United States nuclear umbrella. Europe as a whole realizes, grudgingly and resentfully in the case of Frar1ce, that \the president of the United States is in a very real sense our presiclent, too\ and the British press voiced strong concern over Wallace and the possible coRstitutional crisis over the election of the president. The lead editorial in the Times on November 7, commenting on the election, began by observing that \everyone must be glad that American democracy has made a clear cut choice,\ and \vent on .to express relief that Wallace's showing at the poll's was J)ec 1 s ,.o~ \'..S/ I>ec is· . · 'ol?s I • especially poor. The Guardian, in an editorial on the same day, said the election results \put a high premium on reform of the electoral system\ and called for the direct election of the president by popular vote. There was one other significant reform made urgent by this election. Citing the convincing case of Vice-President elect Spiro Agnew the Guardian proposed reform of the system of presidential succession so that if a president die.s in office, the Vice-President would assume the P residency only temporarily, until a new election could be held, perhaps by Congress. It seems the thought of President Agnew is frightening here, also. One journalist summed it up succinctly by saying simply, \God save Richard Nixon\ a practical, if not noble, sentiment. some decisions are relativeiJ unimportant. Where rou put your engineering talent to work is not. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, we invite you to consider a career at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Here, you will find wide-open opportunities for professional growth with a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dynamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. We select our engineers and scientists carefully. M()tivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fields that .have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. And your decision is made easier, thanks to the wide range of talents required. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • MATERIALS SCIENCE • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COIVIPUTER SCIENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS. Consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William l. Stoner, Engineering Department. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. Pratt & Whitney ~ircraft EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA u CIVISIO,... OF UNITEO ARAFT CORPORATION An Equol Opportunlly Employer

HAMILTON BEAT Concotdy Sports 8-0 ·NEXT YEA:R GRID BEST SINCE 1949 •• CO:NTINENTALS FA.LL, 2·2-13 (Con t.inued from page 1) picked up 35 yards via the rush. Both teams resorted to an air game, with Hamilton outgaining the Garnet 275-253. The Garnet attack in the early portion of the first period consisted of running r·ight at the Hamilton forward waH in effort to establish a ground game. With 13 seconds left in the period, Pearce, on a third and five, rolled to his right as Swan ran a curl on the same side. Pearce pulled away from a tackler and hit the star wingback cutting over the middle. A big block from Art Jacobs aided Swan as he outran everyone to the goal line. Jim Sabella's Placement tied the score at 7-7. Sabella clsed out the Union scoring hopes in the half when he was short on an attempted 47-yard field goal. With the first half as a reminder of the futility of a ground game, Pearce began to exploit the vulnerable Blue pass defense. Following a missed field goal attempt by Hamilton, the Garnet took possession at their 20, and on first down Pearce called the fly to Swan. The ball was thrown perfectly and Swan raced by two defenders to grab it and continue untouched into the end zone. Waibel struggled to bring his team back. He resorted to rollout passes to beat the Union rush and quick passes over the middle when the linebackers blitzed. He was 19-36-2 on the day which was truly a remarkable performance for the Continentals who have been weak at quarterback all season. For his efforts, Waibel was awarded the Ralph H. Rue award as Hamilton's most valuable player in the contest. Swan was the Garnet recipient. Waibel, however, was hampered by the Garnet's stiffened pass defense and 100 yards in G Rl D STATIST·ICS . . RUSHING: Player Rushes Yds. Gd. Yds. Loss Net Ave. TDs Larry Sykes, F'B·HB 137 505 -13 492 3.6 2 Jerry Ostrander, HB 114 536 -55 481 4.2 3 Joe James, FB 84 311 -10 301 3.6 3 Denis Moffitt, HB s 20 0 20 4.0 0 Ken Pearce, QB 42 53 -192 -139 -3.3 l Union Total 385 1440 -281 1159 3.0 9 Opp. Total 346 1001 -340 651 1.9 8 PASSING: Player Att. Comp. Yds. Had Int. TDs Conv. Ken Pearce, QB 210 105(50%) 1183 14 8 0 Union Total 213 lOS 1183 IS 8 1 Opp. Total 207 94( 45%) 1146 19 2 0 RECEIVING: Player Caught Yds. Gd. TDs Conv. Rich Swan, SE-Wil 31 428 3 0 Dan Gould, TE 19 243 0 0 Art Jacobs, WB-SE 19 180 . 4 0 Jerry Ostrander, HB 18 144 I 0 Craig Carlson, WB 9 137 0 0 Steve MacKenzie, WB 6 28 0 0 Larry Sykes, HB 1 23 0 1 Union Total 105 1183 8 1 Opp. Total 94 1146 2 0 PUNTING: Player Punts Yds. Ave. Ron McAvoy, LB 51 1843 36.2 Opp. Total 56 1923 34.4 SCORING: Player TDs Conv. K Conv. R-P FG Pts. Art Jacobs, WB-SE 4 0 0 '0 24 Jerry Ostrander, HB 4 0 0 0 24 Jim Sabella, K 0 17-18 0 2-9 23 Joe James. FB 3 0 0 0 18 Rich Swan, SE 3 0 0 0 18 Larry Sykes, HB 2 0 l-1 0 14 Steve Ciesinski, DHB 1 0 0 0 6 Dave Gray, DHB 1 0 0 0 6 Ken Pearce, QB I 0 0 0 6 Union Total 19 17-18 1-1 2-9 139 Opp. Total 19 7-10 o-2 o-3 79 INTERCEPTIONS: Player Int. \ids. Ret. TDs Steve Ciensiski, DHB 10 151 1 Paul Ramsey, DHB 5 54 0 Joe Grabowski, LB 3 14 0 Russ Cicotti, LB 1 0 0 Union Total 19 219 1 Opp. Total 15 285 2 TOTAL OFFENSE: Game Game Total Total Plays Net Gain Ave./Rush Ave./Pass Ave./Game Union 601 2,342 144.9 147.9 292.8 Opponent 553 1, 797 81.4 143.3 224.7 THE PEANUT STOR.E Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER '·At the Sign of the ll,ed Neon Pipe TUES. thr11 SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 Jo 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 Hamilton penalties. • The third period was a sloppy one; two Gamet drives were killed on interceptions and play became largely a matter of field position. Hamilton was forced to quick kick twice near its own goal line and the Garnet were able to capitalize. Pearce led a drive that began on the visitor's 42 late in the third period. The big play was a '22 yarder to Pup Gould to open the last period. With 11:07 to go in the game, ' Ostrander skirted left end for the Gamet's third score. A poor pass from center on the ensuing placement attempt resulted in a two point conversion pass from Sabella to Larry Sykes. Hamilton, down 22-7, came right back as Jon Effinger ended a 66 yard drive with a two yard run. The crucial attempt for two points was not good. With less than five minutes to play in the game, Hamilton got a big break, as nother errant pass from center, this time on a snap to McAvoy in punt formation, gave the hosts possession on the Gamet 29. Joe Grabowski ended any Hamilton hopes with an interception. Paul Ramsc) alsu picked one off for the winners. Credit must be given to Senior linebacker Don DeMichele knocks down a Hamilton attempt at a two-point conversion late in ' the third quarter of Saturday's game. The key play prevented the Continentals from dosirl.g within a touchdown of the Gamet. DeMichele led a fine defensive effort that helped result in a 22- U .win. Hamihon; they tried everything, including end around passes to other ends, a flea flicker to a guard, a jump pass or two, and two \almost\ fights as both benches cleared during the games final minutes. Skaters Dumped by Bill Holleran The Hockey Club saw its first ice action of the season last Friday, as the Garnet icemen faced R.P.l. club teams twice in one day. The Dutchmen dropped an early morning scrimmage, 2-0, and were routed in a nightcap, 6-1. The pucksters were hopelessly outplayed in both contests. There were, however, several bright spots in Friday's action which could bode well for the future. John Storm and Hunter Townsend, wDrking with Emerson Martin on the first line, worked as smoothly as could be expected throughout Friday night's game, and scored the team's first and only goal of the season on a picture play. Storm took a hard shot on net, stole the rebound, and fed Townsend right in front of the crease with a perfect backhand pass. Hunter had no trouble rifling the puck past the startled goalie. Storm also displayed a quick temper and ready fists, as he tangled with an enemy skater once during the course of Friday night's action. MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts donE: by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 3'7'24010 The goalkeeping appeared solid, as the net-minding tandem of Dick Brickley and Rick Ohler performed creditably. Brickley, backstopping the morning scrimmage, was bombarded with a fusillade of shots on goad, and played well in allowing only two goals. Ohler made several outstanding saves in the nightcap. Both goalies were plagued by an unorganized defense, which was unable to clear the puck from the Garnet's defensive zone, offering opposing forwards numerous scoring chances. The defense, led by club president Rick Miller, should improve with practice. Union hockey fans should not panic, however, because the main reason for the double loss was a lack of practice. The Gamet sextet has not had a workout to date, with Friday's action being the first trip on ice for some club members. Union skaters found thjngs a bit disorganized, as players skated on and off the ice almost at will and lines and the defense were constantly juggled. JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATErS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear Vinitk~ Men's Shop Specialists in Colle.giate Wear 514 State Street Park & Shop at La fayette Free Parking SIMON SEZ by LEN SIM(N Saturday's 22-13 football victory over Hamilton culminated the finest grid season at Union since 1949. The pla:')'ers cited at various times in the column continued to do their filu job, as did those who have possibly been neglected by this Miter. Every member of the squad deserves recognition. Another group, however, has been entirely unheralded by Concordy at most times, and they also deserve high praise for their efforts this season. I refer to the coaching staff. Head coach George Flood must take- most ofthecredit for the renaissance of winning football here, since ,jt was he who was most instrumental in bringing the players to Union who have forged such a fine season. Recruiting is tl1e key to football - success, since the best strategy and attitude can go 1() waste if a squad simply does not have the talent to compete. Dichotomy Should Mr. Flood continue to bring in the brand,() f player he now possesses, one of two things will happen. Either Union will be a consistent winner, dominating most of its pres.ent rivals, or the Garnet will strengthen its schedule. The latter c<Jllld be done by getting out of the ICAC, and adding rivals sud1 .as Amherst, Wesleyan, Tufts, Wagner, Hofstra, C.W. P()st, and other consistently good teams. Wesleyan is a possibility for next season, but nothing is definite yet. The actual coaching of the team must take a back seat for any head coach, as his main task is recruiting. It is the prirnary job of defensive coach Chris Schmid and offensive line coach Art r, · Lawrence, both of whom should also receive praise for a job weli done. Schmid's defense has been the mainstay of the team, overshadowing the offense in the great majority of games. The defense allowed only ten touchdowns in eight games, with two other scores coming on opposition interception returns. Of the ten TO's, two came on long bombs and one on a brea.kaway run. The defensive unit only yielded seven touchdown drives, and a couple of those were set up by offensive turnovers. Big Pride Pride was the keystone of the defense. Schmid instilled this pride and managed to keep it alive despite being.shackled with the double duty of also coaching varsity basketball f<Jr the second half of the football season. 428 STATE Sl'REET Dick Negro c activist, President speak 01 Power\ ' Memori~l Born Missouri, race to \stand-t satirist. One impoveri1 school tr scholan U nivers outstand scholar. two yea member comedy returne Universit graduatir Drifti a time ir was fit colleagu€ addresse' into th drifted 1958, \\ ceremon at a ti irregular in 1959, children His s l961 wl an ailing made executiv The ma nervous, gentler underst< Souther 1r know t DUI exodu there Co nco final printe

sion late in. within a cited at job, as did ter. Every group, at most this for the who was who have football waste if a he Union will rivals, or be done Amherst, and other season, for any job of coach Art r, · well the team, games. The s, with two Of the run. rives, and a this ackled with the second \A Causa P·ersa Parole Assai'' 'VOL. ·ga NO. 16 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., NOVEMBER 22,1968 Mini - Po II D D Yes No PRICE TWENTY CENTS Blaek Militant Gregory To ·Speak Here Tu·esday ACC Expresses Reservations But Passes Unit Self-Rule Dick Gregory, nationally known Negro comedian and civil rights activist, and recent ca11didate for President of the United States, will speak on \Civil Rights and Black Power\ Tuesday morning at 11 :30 in J Memorial Chapel. Born 36 years ago in St. Louis, Missouri, Gregory was the first of his race to achieve great success as a \stand-up\ comedian and social satirist. One of 6 children in an impoverished family, he became a high school track star and won an athletic sc h o !a rs hip to Southern Illinois University, where he was an outstanding athlete and indifferent scholar. He left college to serve for two years in the U.S. Army as a member of the Special Services, doing comedy routines in G. L shows. He returned to Southern Illinois University, but dropped out before graduating. Drifting to Chicago, he worked for a time in the U.S. Post Office. But he was fired for impersonating his colleagues and for flipping letters addressed to the state of Mississippi into the \overseas\ .slot. He had drifted inc i succession Df jobs until 195 8, when he became a master of ceremonies in a small Negro night-club at a tiny salary. He then worked irregularly in night-clubs. He married in 1959, and is now the father of five children. Playboy Club His success story began in January l961 when he was asked tD fill in for an ailing comedian before an audience made up largely of Southern executives at Chicago's Playboy Club. The management was understandably nervous. \Good evening, ladies and gent Ierne n, '' Gregory began. \I understand there are a good many Southerners in the room tonight. I know the South very well. I spent No Co nco rd.iensis Due to the traditionally early exodus of vacationing students, there will be po issue of Concordiensis on Tuesday. The final issue of the term will be printed on Tuesday, Dec. 3. twenty years there one night.\ This was the beginning of a phenomenally successful night-club engagement. Time magazine profiled Gregory in February 1961 and the national attention he then received has not faltered since. He has been a top night-club star, has appeared frequently on television and is the author of a half-dozen books. When Gregory returned to St. Louis in triumph he was given the key to the city by the mayor. Not long afterward when he was refused accommodations by a leading St. Louis hotel, Gregory commented, \They gave me the key to the city and then they changed all the locks.\ Since 1962, Gregory has invested his fame and income in the civil rights movement - at an estimated cost to him of $1 million in bypassed nigh tel ub bookings and travel expenses. He has been arrested more than 20 times for leading demonstrations, mostly in the South and his home city, Chicago. He has carried out several prolonged fasts, most recently to protest the Vietnam War. In 1 966, Gregory virtually quit night-club performing in favor of traveling the college circuit. He has talked to capacity audiences at more than 200 colleges and universities, preaching his gospel. The 11 All-College Council members WedNesday evening in Schaffer Library's Phi Beta Kappa room passed a barrage of amendments and expressed a variety of reservations concerning the Council committee's proposals on parietal restrictions. But the Cot~.ncil decided without dissenting vote to ask President Harold Martin to allow the new parietal system to go into effect the first of next term. On several occasions this term, the President has voiced opposition to general liberalization of parietals, but several Council members said privately that they expect him to allow the change on an experimental basis. The essence of the change, as presented to more than 700 students in Memorial Chapel Tuesday, would allow each living unit to set its own limits on Parietal restrictions, or to establish no limits. One of the II students, faculty and administrators on the Council, Dean Edward Malloy, abstained on the issue. The rest voted in favor. An ACC committee on style will present a condensed version of the six-page committee report along with the new legislation to the Council members on Monday for final approval by Thanksgiving recess. The new system will then be taken to President Martin where it will be passed or vetoed. Professor Charles Olton, an ACC member, said the trustees empowered the President to make decisions regarding changes in social rules. Professor Olton added that President Martin could conceivably regard the legislation as \a revolution in the social system\ rather than merely a change in social rules. In that case, the matter could be taken to the Trustees who meet next in January. Several Council members said they expect the new system to be passed by the President because of its experimental nature and because of Peace-And-Freedom Party Speaker Wants Black Freedom, End To War \We want immediate withdraw! from Vietnam, and [national] support of the black liberation\ stated Vicki Israelski, regional co-ordinator of the Peace and Freedom Party as she addressed a group of Union students Wednesday evening. There are \potential activists at Union, sitting around with nothing happening\ said one student. Miss Israelski suggested that a community geared program in education and constant discussion can eliminate this inactivity. ''On campus\ she added, \everything is totally separate\. Rules and regulations are the same in and out of college \as students will find out after graduation\. According to Miss Israelski, Peace and Freedom has spread to RPI and Albany State, as well as to \apathetic Skidmore\. Already RPI has adopted a \Free School\ based on \dialogue situations\; \some classes have books, some don't\. Miss Israelski described the party as a third political element with functioning committees in 20 states. It must \become a national tnmg . Although the election is over, Peace and Freedom is still gaining strength. Offering its aid to the black communities, Peace and Freedom cooperates with the Black Panthers. The two parties in coalition ran Eldridge Cleaver as candidate for President, until the Supreme Court ruled him unacceptable because of his age. Now Peace and Freedom are attempting to recruit Wallace people. \They know that something new must be done,\ she said. In the summer of 1967, a group of Californians formed the Peace and Freedom Party. Soon it spread to New York City', various national regions, and upstate New York. In January 1968, the third party received a ballot slot. Instead of five or six small powerless parties, Peace and Freedom advocates \one unified party\ including former Democrats and Republicans. As newly appointed leader of the Peace and Freedom Party at Union, John Brown plans his next meeting for Wednesday, December 4. College Officials Decline Comment 4 At Concord Expected Back Soon by Bruce Husten Although officials at both Union and Concord Colleges declined to comment, Concordiensis learned last night that the four Union juniors studying at the Athens, W.Va., college will return either to Schenectady or to their homes by Sunday following a confusing series of events which concern distribution of a recent Facsimile article, \The Student as Nigger,\ written by Professor Jerry Farber of California State University. In a taped interview with WRUC, Neil Kramer, one of the Union students at Concord, said the four Union men circulated the article at Concord since the administration there was an example of the type described by Farber in his article. Farber points out in his article the gap between student and teacher and claims that gap is intentionally created by educational administrators in order to force the student into an inferior position. Kramer continued in the WRUC interview that the Bluefield (W. Va.) Daily Telegraph, situated about 18 miles from Athens in Bluefield, W. Va., published an editorial following distribution of \The Student As Nigger\ which accused the Union men of being \crusading young obscenity peddlers.\ \If they (the Union men) wish to create more Berkeleys and Columbias at Bluefield State College and Concord,\ the editorial continued, \articles like Farbers will do the trick.\ Bluefield St<Ite College is located in the Town of Bluefield, but Kramer in the interview emphatically denied circulating Farber's article on that campus. Rumors that the four Union men, well aware that the Concord administration reacted unfavorably to their distribution of the article, were planning to leave West Virginia, were not confirmed by either President Harold C. Martin of Union or President Joseph Marsh of Concord. Martin referred this Concordy reporter to the Public Relations office for any statements, and a spokesman for that office said the college prefers to make no comment on incidents involving \students acting not as representatives of the college, but as individuals.\ Kramer told Concordy last night, however, that the Union contingent will be leaving West Virginia by Sunday. He said a joint statement was issued to Concord College students from Presidents Martin and Marsh, but would not disclose the contents of the statement. The other three juniors at Concord, along with Kramer, are Floyd Weintraub, Tony Woods and Ten Steingut. All are at the college as part of a junior year Camp. Ed. program. Also at the college from Union is Professor William Bennett of the (Continued on page 7) the unanimous ACC bote. The system passed the Council Wednesday after two hours o.f discussion, two major amendments were made and two minor ones. All the amendments passed unanimously. Professor Olton proposed that any student, faculty member or administrator may register a complaint about the general social conduct of a single living unit with the Dean of Students or the newly formed Liason Committee and the matter will then be turned over to the appropriate judicial body for action. The amendment, proposed to take pressure off President Martin and to avoid abolition of the entire system because of one unit's misdeeds, was added as a separate article. Professor Theodore Schwarz added an amendment that the ACC will review new system periodically to determine whether students accept the responsibility that would go along with the freedom provided. 0 ther proposals amended the legislation to read that parietals must remain in effect for at least 15 days in a given living unit and that the system would go into effect in January, 1969. Dean Martin Lichterman moved that a part of the committee report, stressing student responsibility, be (Continued on page 7) Council Vote Monday On Constitution Student Council members were presented with the rough draft of the new constitution at Wednesday night's Student Council Meeting and will begin a part by part discussion and vote next Monday at 7 pm in Hale House. Written by Danny Aronzon and Walter Spencer the draft is the result of several meetings held .bY the Committee On Student Government Re-organization. The council's discussion of the constitution is expected to take at least two meetings and probably more stated Spencer, who added a student vote on the co!lstitution probably will not come before next term. The committee on re-organization has two alternatives in presenting the constitution. They could take it directly to the student body where a two thirds vote would be needed to pass it, or they could take it to the Council where after being reviewed, revised and pas&ed by a two-thirds vote will then be voted on by the students. The committee chose the second alternative \as a matter of courtesy\ said Spencer. An attempt to begin discussion on the proposed constitution was made at a special council meeting last Monday. The council however refused to begin discussion until it had copies of the constitution and had time to study it. Wednesday night's meeting was adjorned after the copies were passed out.

Publuhed Tue aday and FrLday dur- In; th\ •chool year by the Student E!ody of Un~on Coll•B•· Sch•n.,ct .. dy. N. Y, Nauonal Advertuma Repre- aentatlve-: N.st·1onal Educat1onal AdvertLILn& ServLC<', Inc., Coli•&• .Publlahtrs RepresontatL\'e, J60 Lextngton Avenu~. N, 'Y. C. EdLI or~el Otfu:e. OJd Gym, UnLon Coli•&•· Publ•cat>on Office. \1/lnte• hurst Pnntln& & BLnd•n& Co .. Inc .. 4!6-4'18 Fifth Ave .. Troy. 235·4450. Entered Ln the Sehenectady Post OfflCO as s .. oond Class MaLl Molter. Subscr1p110n 20¢ • copy; $6 a year dehvered anywher\ 1n the United Stat ea. SENIOR BOARD D. Peter Drotman '69 ................ 346-8614 .......... Editor-in-Chief Jeffrey C. Browne '69 ............... 346\9973 .......... Editor-in-Chief ~ichard Lewis • 70 ................... 346-193 2 ....... Business Manager William Ouzer '71 ................... 372·B 541 ........ Managing Eaitot Allen Gartner '71 .................... 346-806 7 ............ News Editor Paul Andrews '71 .................... 393-7378 ......... Features Editor Leonard Simon '70 .................. 372-7227 ........... Sports Editor Paul Farnham '70 ................... 377-03. 2 9 ........ Associate Editor Man Klein •69 ...................... 372-7718 ............ Copy Editor Student Responsibility Last Wednesday evening the AU-College Council unanimously (9-0-l) ratified the liberalized parietal hour selection system proposed by the Student Committee on Social Rules. One faculty All-College Council member said he voted for the liberalized policy 011 parietal hours because he believes \in student responsibility even though there may be no evidence of it.\ Another said he voted in favor of the proposal as an experiment in student responsibility. One student ACC member said he was against the proposal because a lack of student responsibility exists under the present rules. He voted in favor of the system because he knew the students wanted it. We interpret the unanimous ACC vote as a mandate to the Administration to treat students as adults. Some of the mt~mbc1·s made it clear that the new system is a trial in freedom and responsibility, a test we have urged for years, and not as a social license nor, as one Council member put it, as .. an inexpensive way to keep dates for the weekend.\ Assuming the final legislation calling for unit rule on parietals passes, Union will Le among the less than two percent of the colleges across the country, according to one study, with either no parietal restrictions or student determined restrictions. The ACC committee which proposed the specifics of the new legislation compared Union's parietal restrictions with those of other schools. The research, still incomplete, shows most men's colleges with parietal hours similar to the present hours at Union. Among those schools are Harvard, Hamilton, Trinity and Amherst. The All-College Council, then, proposes to make Union a leader in the area of student freedom. The situation will be accompanied by considerable pressure on students to accept the responsibility they have demanded, and particularly on resident advisors, dormitory leaders and fraternity officers, to see that tlw student <[UCst for freedom has not been in vain. The ACC has provided plenty of rope for the students to hang themselves, in fact for one or more living units to hang the whole system. We urge students to begin thinking not only about what parietal restrictions to make in their living units, but also about how to enforce them responsibly. Student Enthusiasm Wednf'sday's action by the All-College Council culminated the first unified, determined effort by students during this academic year and I'cinforced perhaps the most inspiring enthusiasm seen here over anything but a football game in years. Neal Gordon and his six-man committee compiled an accurate and compelling report, one that convinced aU but five of the more than 750 students who converged on :\lemorial Chapel Wednesday to hear it, and one that convinced all but one of the All-College Council membt~rs that students are entitled to have a try at choosing tl1eir own parietal restrictions. We hop<' tlw data compiled in the report, the recommendation of tlw ACC and the enthusiasm of sllHknts for social freedom will convince the President to allow th1· change in responsibility to go into effect in January, without further. and apparently unnecessary, delay. Trials Of Community Convention·· l by Paul Andrews \The thing is, it has to be spontaneous.\ AI Ziegler had called a group of us together in the Rathskeller a week after classes began last September to talk about a plan to bring the campus together. It would be a campus-wide theater of the arts, with fraternities and independents alike taking part in rap sessions, theatrical haps, teach-ins, folk music and jazz jam sessio11s and anything else evoked by the whims ofHfe. Through the arts medium students could express views on topics from the Vietnam war to social rules. Some Mountebanks performers could put on a play acting out student frustration over social rules; some campus folk singers could put on a concert with topical songs. Outside speakers could be brought in for taJkathons; college administrators could get together in informal klatches with students. A movie could even be made of the whole thing. Ziegler explained that using the arts to expose issues would be more effective than voicing dissent in the ''protest demonstration'' vein. The average Union student geaerally would have fewer qualms about partiCipating in an arts festival thal'l a demonstration, too. A list of \objectives\-· including the abolition of parietal hours al'ld maintenance--would be drawn up and submitted to the administration for consideration in the coming year. The event, to be held outdoors, would be called the Convention, after the Chicago Democratic convention, which Ziegler explained was a ldnd of theater in itself. Behind the Convention would be the Community--a union of the student body transcending divisive class and fraternity allegiances. But the Convention had to be acted on fast, Ziegler cautioned. Winter would prohibit holding it outdoors, the atmosphere most conducive to spontaneous creativity. And the Community Needed the full year to build an esprit de corps which would not wane during intersessions or over summer vacatiol'l. Ziegler baptized the Community by distributing a 'leaflet outlining its goals and encouraging some enthused ex-freslunen to hold a beanie burning. Ziegler then presented the idea before the Student Council and bowed out of the entire thing, as he had originally promised he would. He was living off campus and did not have the time to engineer the project, b.e said. The Student Council gave the idea a cordial reception. A charter was approved, funds were granted, and a purpose--\to encourage the development of an atmosphere in which a creative energy exchan.ge among the campus community would be facilitated\--was assigned the Cornniunity. \ 'Creative Energy' To Keynote New Group\ pronounced the Concordiensis front-page headline October 4. The first Convention, the article said, would be held \soon probably within a month.\ A week later the Convention date had been moved back about a month--to 1 'late November.\ So said newly-appointed Community leader Larry Pedowitz in a front-page Concordiensis interview. That's about all Pedowitz would say, however, as he felt that publicizing. the Convention would detract from its spontaneity. That was the absolute final 1 • word anybody heard about the-~~ Community and the: Convention--until last week, · when there was to be a meeting of interested students. One sign ~: announcing the meeting was '· posted; no announcement appeared in Concordiensis. ,P; · As could have been expected, \ , nobody showed. And, under the ! a p p r o p r i a t e h ea di ng o f ; \Blither Larry Pedowitz ,' explained in last Friday's Concordy that, due to a lack ·of , interest, he hasd postponed the . Convention until after the Fall'' · term. Pedowitz did not mention : · whether the lack, of int_erest was r· the student body s or his. ·.•r The Convention could have l been something. The materialization of the Community still is a worthwhile •.t i goal. But somewhere the idea of : the Convention lost its direction; 1 somewhere the Community lost , ~ · .. its spontaneity. Such may be the fate of any Student Council I· \activity\ {in this case a ~ contradiction in terms); such,J; may be the fate of any project I given half-hearted leadership. But from the start, Ziegler's best i laid plans were just that. It '' hasn't been fun watching them go astray. Union College Primer:A Compendium'', ,,l by Ray Krise, Jr. Lesson l --Your room This is your room. You will live in it for the whole year. Ha. Ha. See your bed. See the nice matress it has. Sag, matress, sag. See the nice chest-of-drawers you have. See that your room-mate has one, too. Notice that only one of you has a mirror. See the nice walls. See where somebody last year scotch-taped pictures to them? Lesson 2-- The Comp-ed class This is your camp-ed class. That man up in front is the teacher. Allegedly. Notice how everyone in the class is concentrating intently. Not on the teacher, however. The new issue of Spiderman came out today. It is not always like this. Snore, snore, snore. Lesson 3 - Jackson's Gardens See Jackson's Gardens. They are beautiful. But it is pleasant watching the couples strolling hand in hand. Unfortunately, some of the boys are ignoring the \No Dogs\ sign at the entrance. Have you ever wondered why the gates are locked at night? Lesson 4 - The construction project See the powerful bulldozers. Rmmm, rmmm, rmmm. See all the dirt they are turning over. Cough, cough, cough. See them knocking down the fraternity house. It must go to make way. It is too bad that the project will besmirch the grounds for Parents' Weekend. But it must be done. What are they building? No one is sure. But one thing is certain: There will be enough money for it. Lesson 5 -- Diamante's This is Diamante's. They serve pizza. Sort of. It is square. Taste it. Ecch, ecch, ecch. But do not inhale through your nose. I He got 800s on The Boards. ,. Guess which one of you gets the . See the swimming pool. Don't you wish you could the bottom of it? See the boys taking showers. Watch how they dance. dresser with the mirror, 11 . see the desk facing the window, and I the good bed? ! But ·the two of you get along : Only, they are not really dancing. The water was cold, so they turned the dial higher, now their flesh has welts where the water hit. Then they turned the dial lower, and their skin puckered. See the boy trying to put on his gym suit. He weighs 400 pounds. So they gave him \medium\ shorts. Rip, rip, rip. But at least the next person who wears them will have lots of ventilation. Lesson 7 -· Sour hour See the bar. It is D'Andrea's. Have you noticed how the Italians own all the bars, rest· raunts, and drug-stores around here? When they have Sour Hour, all the drinks are half-price. If you can get any. See the boy try to get to the bar. He has been there since three weeks ago. But then, so has everybody else. They are all wedged together and cannot move. But none of them cares. Especially not that guy pressed against the girl who is a Playboy bunny in the Summer. Lesson 8 -- The party See the party. It is sort of a combination of lessons 5, 8, 9, and 4. Retch, grab, slurp, slap, rip, ahhh. Notice the alumni. They are those things sitting in those chairs behind the door over there. See how their eyes look like glass. See the happy boys and girls on their backs, hopping up and down to the music. It is called \turtling.\ It is called other things, too. See that girl over there with the bulging belly? She has been to parties before. very well. As long as you do exactly as he J .' says. ,, . Which isn't too bad, but you are getting a stiff back , from sleeping in the lounge on1 1 weekends because his girl is visiting him. But you'll fix him. Someday, you'll put a big1 scratch in his \Black Watch\ bag-pipe record that he loves to play on his $500 stereo at 4 in the morning. Lesson tO-- Ferro's Drugstore This is Ferro's Drugstore. .11 It is about 15 feet away from the campus. They give Union men a 1 0% .· discount on everything. r· · Yes, on those too. And they have a wide selection. It is based on what is known asc \volume buying.\ And \wishful thinking.\ Lesson 11 -· The Union Collel!;e'\\H' concert You will never see one of these. If you do, you are probably on a trip. Probably a bad one, too. Singing groups have .a \thing\ about Union, They are allergic to it, Alien: young themse ''ana r c \pacifist epithets must developr thought Am eric Vietnam poverty rninorit)' persists result is FOUND Vol. 1 Th 1 Afte silence Beatles album, (not t· has br( music 1 It s1 WPTR \exclu: which as \T album station have tl each ( times 1 knew listenir station copy Howe' the a interrv remar1 the at had exclu outdo1 Beatie played song what's good t The diffic1 bee au: donei bee au: is nev with~ with which living u.s. Prude by Onior take 1 of S nothi of th( foursc of po When your parents are here, they are. When the gate is unlocked so you can get in, nobody has planted any flowers yet. Chef Boy-Ar-Dee has nothing to worry about. In a Way, this is a good deal for the people advertising the concerts: il! .. and And some engineering majors have tried to dam up Hans Groots' Kill with beer cans. And an old stu·ffed chair. Listen to the waitresses talk. Blue, blue, blue. They just found the tip you left. Lesson 6 ·- The gym See the gym. Lesson 9 --Your room-mate This is your room-mate. He is six-foot five. He weighs two hundred pounds. He is a football and wrestling recruit. They can say we will have the Beatles and Simon and Garfunkle, And they will be just as close to being right as saying Junior Walker is coming. Conti Bill.\ on tl · i· the ~ Guita spoof Warrr

final I, about the,~~ nd the : week, a meeting s. One sign ~~: was ' · ensis. 'Pi n expected, \ , under the ! ading of : :Pedowitz , '· Friday's a lack ·of the the Fall '' · mention ' · t.erest was j his. . .• 1 : could have ·1 ng. The 1 of the worthwhile •.t i the idea of : ts direction; 1 lost ~ · the· Council I· case a ' such,J; any preject I leadership. s best f that. It '' them lit by Alan Cohen Alienation. Why? Why do young men now pride themselves at being called ''anarchists,'' ''head.s,\ \pacifists\ or dozens ·Of other epithets of th!=l day? The cause must be linked to the development of a new school of thought ·· ·a reaction against America's intervention in Vietnam and against the massive poverty possessed by a large minority while the . majority persists in its abundance. The result is that the supporters of the status quo move to an extreme stand, becoming more conservative, for fear that the new school gain power, while the new school reacts more negatively to the establishment. Thus, alieaation causes dichotomization which in turn furthers alienation. It is difficult to exemplify this dichotomy by using the 1968 Presidential election. The protest vote did not amount to even one per cent of the total popular vote. Possibly, much of the Humphrey vote came from potential \anti- establishment\ FOUNDED AT UNION COLLEGE IN 1968 people in their great fear of Richard Nixon. Too, the under-21 faction, Black citizens, and those who refused to vote in the election will move to extremist positions as their hopes are stymied by the establislunent. The more than 70 per cent of the voters who supported Wallace, Nixon or (President Johnson's) Humphrey are those who will mGve to the right-· to conservatism, to preserving the status quo. The right as I Use the term can be characterized by patriotism in the name of past glory, law and order in the name of the establishment at the cost of minorities, war in the name of a seemingly holy cause, and fighting poverty in the interests of the capitalist enterprises. The remaining 20 percent of the voters plus non-voters plus non-voters who will join them on the left wing can be characterized by a desire for change toward bringing about equality and peace. Morality is more important than patriotism, justice may ·be achieved through civil disobedience and violence when other methods have failed, war is only to be considered as a last resort, and fighting poverty can be achieved thrcmgh socialistic measures at the cost of the majority. Of ·course, there are those who truly believed in Humphrey and there is and will always be a middle ·- but it will continue to decrease as each extreme becomes more vocal and demanding. It appears to me that there exist two levels (;)f thought even at Union College involving its relationship to the rest of .society. One student could n(;)t understand my desire to have Union become co-educational. He thought that I was abnormal for getting uptight at not seeing a real live gill .for :five days and having to restrain myself when I finally do. He felt that girls at this school would decrease its general quality and especially the quality oftheathletic teams. \What's wrong with seeing girls only on weekends?' he taunted me, trying to get me to admit I was just a se:x fiend. I asked him if he would l.ike to have this \5-2\ relationship go on for the rest of his life. He considers college a preparation for life; I want college to be a part of life. Maybe you don't see how this fits in. I'll try :mother example. At the recent \Up and Down\ flagpole incident, two freshmen got to debating the justification <>f welfare programs. One was upset that his father earning $15,000 a year had to give his hard earned money to people who don't even work. Of course, this young man, (an Up and obviously a rightist) had no objection to most of his faiher's taxes going to fight a war; he was only concerned about the small percentage that goes into anti- poverty programs. More importantly, this child does not care enough to read about poverty and find out . the problems ·· only enough to speak against welfare. Boards. !' Vol. 1 No. 4 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., NOVEMBER 22, 1968 FREE WITH CONCORDIENSIS Maybe you're getting my point, but I'll try one more. Often people at Union College speak- up for bringing Black students to Union. Why? To make Union a more realistic representation of society. To give lJnion a :better reputation. Some real philanthropists want to help the Blacks get ahead in society (but what they mean is our society). But nobody is talking about gjving Blacks an education so they can return to their communities to give leadership where it is most needed. Even if Blacks were in classes by themselves and living together, the matter of importance is not what they were doing for the college or the students here, but what the college is doing for them. gets the . 11 . window, and I I get along i 1)' I The New Beatles Album The Con tinning Story J Of Ringo Raccoon ' by Phil Kras After close to a year of silence in the LP world, the Beatles have released a new album, and all pandemonium (not to mention Beatlemania) has broken loose in the Tri-City music market. It started last Thursday when WPTR and WTRY both got \exclusive\ copies of the album, which henceforth we'll refer to as \The Beatles,\ since the album has no name. Both stations, of course, claiming to have the records first interrupted each cut a mere four or five times to make sure the listeners exactly as he , knew which station they were ,J, · listening to, and that no other but you are lounge on1 1 girl put a big1 k Watch\ he loves to Drugstore station in the world posessed a copy of \The Beatles.\ However, WRUC, which also had the album, not only didn't interrupt the songs with inane remarks, but also didn't mention the absurd fact that they, too, had the album \first and exclusive.\ WPTR, to be outdone by no one, declared a }, ' li Beatie War (call it a crusade) and played every other song a Beatle song all week-end. You know what's said about too much of a good thing. 11 .away from The album itself is especially difficult to describe, partly because it contains thirty .songs done in various styles, and partly because the music on the album is new. \The Beatles\ starts off with a sproof on the Beach Boys with \Back in the U.S.S.R.\ which extols the many merits of men a 10% selection. is known asc Colle~:e~>~w ¥1 living in Russia, rather \:han the U.S. After thaL \Dear one of these. probably on a too. .a \thing\ Prudence,\ a pretty ballad sung by Lennon. Then, \Glass Onions,\ in which the Beatles take you on a trip into the land of Strawberry Fields where nothing is teal, and where many '4 of their songs lie peaQ'efully. The foursome dabbles into the realm of polkas with '\Obladi Oblada,\ and children's tales in \The Continuing Story of Bungalow Bill.\ Serious for the first time on the album, Harrison enters good deal for ~ '4 will have the Simon and just as close to · i· the spotlight with \While my Guitar Gently Weeps.\ Back to spoof again in \Happiness is a Warm Gun\ which sounds much like the music that was popular just before the British invasion of '64. Touching even the field of country music is \Rocky Raccoon\ and Ringo's \Don't Pass Me By.\ ' Meanwhile, the Beatles have in fact passed by many other groups by being able to mock themselves and others. A prime example of this is \Wild Honey Pie\ wlf:ich has words almost as bad as the Beach Boy's \Wild Honey,\ and music much the same; However, musically the Beatles are perhaps superior because they don't take themselves seriously and are more spontaneous. The laughter continues in \Why don't we do IT in the Road?\ which to me sounds like something Elvis wanted to sing ten years ago but couldn't have gotten away with. Back to the serious stuff with \I Will,\ and \Julia two beautiful yet different ballads which show that the Beatles have lost none of their sensititvity in the past four years, and that not all their music must have deep meaning concerning 'the secret to life.' Whether \The Beatles\ reaches the intellectual heights of \Sgt. Peppers\ is up to the individual to decide, and probably not very important. Thought-provoking or not, I highly recommend \The Beatles\. It exhibits not only their fine musical talent and great artistry in writing, but the one quality they have shown more than any other in the past five years: farce. The only words I can find to describe each of the thirty cuts on \The Beatles\ are from Lennon & McCartney's \Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite\ ····A splendid time is guaranteed for all! On Violence In America: They're Selli:ng Postcards Of The Hanging by Bill Shapiro 1. The etiology of Albert DeSalvo's (Boston Strangler) psychological state was not the mass media. (It is possible that mass media is a factor in the reason for American society's involvement with weapons.) 2. There· is little interest, of the American people in general, in understanding of liow hostilities could result in murder, or how a man becomes a murderer. 3. People blame one's society, his family, his genes, or the murderer's \immorality for the reason he feels an urge to kill. 4. In American society, to get angry is looked upon as sinful. To ~ay that you have been angry or experienced the feeling of anger, is more obvious as a statement, than it is emotionally understood and accepted by a society which frowns on everything but ideals. To propose the idea, that there is a correlation between hostility and \psychotic\ murder, might be regarded as insipid. However, if one wants to look for a word which gets to the core of murder, for its own sake, \hostility\ is that word. Anyone who denies that he or she has any hostile feelings, even for those whom he or she loves, is making an announcement of his or her lack of self understanding. As a result, hostility is a normal emotion, but looked upon as unfavorable, distasteful, bad, and even by most all religions as wrong. After seeing the movie, Boston Strangler, which was so magnificently directed by Richard (Dr. Doolittle, Fantastic Voyage) Fleischer, one could hardly avoid the message this production hoped to convey. The movie said that society must do something, not ·only for the victims and possible future victims, but about mental illness, which is the etiology of murder used as a release of inner tension. Who is to blame? Mental illness is not to blame, but rather the causes of mental illness. By presenting horrid murders, the movie Boston Strangler punched across the idea of immediacy: \We must .do something now!!\ The questioning and probing by Lawyer John Bottomley conveyed the phenomenon of a man's repression of 13 murders, and his hysteria and anxiety, as Bottomley touched some vulnerable events or places which had relevance to the murders. Prior to his interrogation, DeSalvo was labeled \multiple personality.~· by the psychiatrist. This man had two personalities. One body was being guided by two minds. One mind blocked out the murders he had committed and adjusted to job and family life, while the other mind lived off memories, associations, and attitudes of the past and moved the body to a female's door: the mind was moving the body to a state where these entities of mind mentioned above, could be satisfied through brutal murders. Upon the merging of his two minds, through throbbing questioning by Bottomley, the trauma of realizing even a part of the mind which drove him to kill, put DeSalvo into a different world: a world totally withdrawn and peaceful for him. Albert DeSalvo's mind had been worn, torn, and shreaded to its finality: death. But there he stood. Still breathing. This is a pathetic story, not because it \came off big,\ but because the story is true and also offers only one example of the 1 out of 10 who suffer from mental illness. The other element of pathos, is that \hostility\ grown wild yields victims. With two types of victims in mind, one who must kill, the other being the person who is killed, action is urgent in these three areas of crime: (1) The area of implementation. There are said to be solutions to dealing with crime; therefore, use them. Psychiatrists and psychologists are needed in the penal system, as stated by Chief Monaco of Schenectady Police Department. Although there is an attending psychiatrist at the department, is there an attending psychiatrist for all police departments and enough of them? Must the govermnent probe the glorious universe, expending billions of dollars, as the unhelped murders find their victims? Where should the gove:t:nment's money be going! (2) The area of training. Are policemen trained to deal with people, adequately, for the jpb they are in? Are lawyers trained in the field of ethics? Are schools intended to teach ideas which will be applicable to everyday living! Are parents trained well enough to rear children! asks Dr. Pearce of the psychology department. (3) The ••you\ and \I\ area. How will the public deal wi~h the problem of crime? Will it be dealt with emotionally <lr scientifically by the pubuc? Must we expect the police, tile mind-healers, and the schools to do all the work in shaping up society? To the leftist, the college itself -· its reputation and striving for perfection--is not important. The college is a means of social change where individual advancement is subordinate to advancing the whole--bringing the two extremes of SQcieiy to a middle point of equabty. I've made my point. If you don't underst~nd it or disagree, write a leiter. Think. Do something. Much of what I said is opinion resulting from my own alienation; but I do believe in the dichQt<>my I spoke of as being irnmine.:nt. :Needless to say, I'm rooting for the left. Outside A Fe.r KnovvingFriends by Steve David Upon hearing of the Trustee's decision to delay action <>n making Union co-ed I'm not sure what I felt more, disgust or outrage. The issue of whether or not Union should admit girls wa:s not the important factor to me, but the reaction to the trustees decision by Union students was. In colleges thr<>ughout th.e nation college students are fighting for a say in choosing teachers, paying teaclter's salaries and deciding what policies the college should follow towards outside interests. Here at Union we are not even standing up for our most basic rights. No one seems to questi()n why twenty-three men who's relationship to Union is now limited at the very best call wield the power of determining how we live here. As a citizen we are granted certain rights yet upon becoming a .student we voluntarily forsake them for reasons which 2re unclear if there are reasons given at all. What is the matter with us that we accept as the word of God the decisions made by the trustees. Is it the rumor that each trustee is endowed with a divine right that makes us follow without a whimper? We are the ones who live, work, and play here, then isil't it logical that we should have a say in the affairs of the college? We are supposed to have a pr~gressive and an aware faculty yet what measure of protest vvru; provoked from then when the Board of Trustees rejected their unanimous decision Qn the grounds of insufficient evidence? Thomas Jefferson once said that if a government llecomes too oppressive it is up to the masses to revolt and depose the government. lsn ~t it about time? The frost has come and Union has died.

The 1972 .Presid'entia.t Union College Weakends: Or, How I Election in Retrospect learned to Stop Worrying and Love byPhilRobinson Ed Muskie and Hubert youthatopportunity,youpickedan l·o ·Get ·s·e;nselessl'y l·ne·b. ·ria·te·d Humphrey ran against the men idiot. ~esides, yo~ want the same . · · . . · . . ( J A N U A R Y 2 0 , . accusations of dirty deals made 1973---WASHINGTON, D.C.) A who beat th_em_ m _1968. Of against yo~ this tirile, too?\ P arade of filthy dirty llippies cot~rse, the Liberal wmg of the Thurmond said no, but at least _he f il d d l 1 t · t party felt Gutraged and on July wanted a guarentee that the runnillg a e to e ay as ·mmu c ' t ld b th J . h . 79 197'> Eugene McCmihy and rna e wou e a sou erner .. o n~on p r e p e r a t 1 on s f o r t he - ' ~, . said yes, he had someone JUSt like INauguration today of the 38th Allard Lowenstem announced that in mind. (36th) President of the United the format1on of the New Party. On December 4, 1972, the House St Of Within a week and a half the of Representatives elected Lyndon ates. course, no one N p ' ·b Johnson President of the United expected the \Beautiful People\ ew arty was tak~n over ·.· Y States, 246-186, the South having to be particularly pleased and no h ~ m 0 sex. ua~s WIt~ acne, tipped the scales. On the follbwing one could care less. What did p1 egnan t h1ppy grrls, and Wednesday, th~ Senate _met to vote matter was that a most bizarre assorted peacemongers. They ousted on 1 t he • V 1 ce-Pres1denbcy. A . founders McCarthy and Lowenstein, g~nt eman s agreement etween set of cucumstances had placed and stated that their aims were NIXon and Johnson had ab:eady in the White House as unlikely a '' ... t 0 screw Democrats, insured that the winner of t~e Ho'!se combination of dark horse Republicans, and Independents.\ For con~est . could_ run h1s V1~e d 'd t ld · - President the New Party nominated Presidential candidate unopposed ill can 1 a es as one cou magme. th ' 'th · · lib a1 the Senate All that remained now A d · k 1 d'd · a sou, erner WJ Impressive er . . . . stunne nation as s 10W 1 It credentials: Glen Campbell. For Vice was for LBJ to nomma~e his chot~e, happen. Prestdent, they ran a Republica! and t~e Sena~~ was ob~ged to _abide Well to the surprisr of many disenchanted. with the present by h1s decJsion. Thirty mmutes R - h d' N\ d F · d d'd' administration because he didn't get before that body assembled to .vote, tc ar IXon an nen 1 . p 'd t 1 t J 1 t r . . . a cabmet post: Nelson Rockefeller. _re~J en -e ec ? mson, a. maser o not do a bad jOb 111 th_e. White Their campaign was brilliant. Glen trrmng and sufl?nse, stood ill a Senate House. The only real cnm they would go into the audience and sing cloak room with Stro~ Thurmond. faced was when Vice President \Gentle On My Mind\ and shout \Ly~d~~ I can't wa1t any longer. A . d' 1 • f \Hit It Nelson\ when he was Who Is 1t? gnew mahl !~s nowll ham~u_sl through.' Tile people loved it and Johnson smiled a knowing grin. statement t at . - . a t e CIVl indeed the ticket may even have \Who's who?\ rights groups should get together gotten a few million votes. But no \Damnit Lyndon, you know who and select a chief nigger ... \ one has ever accused peace creeps of I_ mea~- \Y our next W \th th t t · tl - using any intelligence and true to V1ce-Pres1dent? I . . a ?ne excep IOn, 1err form, the New Party forgot to enter \A_ Southerner, Strom, just like I a dmm1stratlo n was smoothly their candidates 011 any state ballots. prom1sed you.\ . . . by Ray Krise, Jr. One of the really groovy things abo1:1t those period of mass psycho-sex ,called Big Weekends is watching the moods through which they pass. I mean, every weekend does it, not just some. It begins with her arrival. \Her?\ The noun could be \it\ for all it matters. The fact that \it\ is attached to a girl is irrelevant. In fact, it is sometimes downright ( 0r wrong) inconvenience. Anyway, you've \Yeah but who?\ Johnson enjoyed baiting his old friend. \A Texan. A big figure in business, finance, and (chuckle) communications.\ Thurmond bit his tongue. \A good friend of mine. In fact, a life-long companion.\ An unbelievable thought flashed through Thurmond's brain. It couldn't be, he told himself. \Yup in fact, my running mate is by bestest friend in the whole wide world.\ Thurmond's mouth went dry and his eyes became glassy. Johnson continued. \Owns a string of radio got to be nice to her and this (among otb.er things) is hard, because -- if she's the typical Weekend date - - you met in D'Andrea's two weeks ago and you each know virtually nothing about each other. Nervot~sness reigns. The fact y au saw an Italian movie Wednesday night doesn't llelp matters, either. President Martin remains adamant on parietal rules because he \doesn't want undue pressure brought on students by their peers.\ The President stations.\ Now Thurmond knew. His legs buckled, and nausea felled him to his knees. But Johnson had a!Feady turned to leave and was walking out of the voom muttering something about. what a fine wife, loving mother, and devoted grandmother she was, too. ..Holy Jesus,\ Thurmond gasped, \NOT HER???\ But Johns<::m didn't hear him. All he heard was the ovation as he entered the Senate chamber to nominate the next Vice-President of the United States, should be informed that -- 2 a.m. or not -- the peer pressure is damn well there on Weekends. And Other Pressure (for the' same ends) has been emanating ! from the kid's Nether Regions ~. since puberty. You don't d0, a way with sex by official proclamation, guys. Anyway, Friday afternoon uncertainties and bickerings an:1 submerged by Friday flight suds and ffeak-outs. J'he super-ego takes a vacation and its hous~, : · knows it \ Saturday morning, the · super -ego retmns and says, \Okay what happened?\ as it ,., views the ruins in dismay. The two houses decide to help reconstruct one another, both realizing by now that somebody '<e actually lives in the other on.e. It , is more gentle thafl Friday afternoons. ~\ , ., Saturday evening begins -· theoretically --with a concert by run, and popular support of Similarly, tb.ere was no third party Thurmond was growmg Impatient. their Vietnam Peace Treaty threat fr~m George ~a}lace as many --------------------------------------- c~nvinced mo~t ?bservers that ~t~/~: 1 ~~~ :;~tk efecfi~~~:~~~~ Help· Save Jackson's Gardens Today·., a semi-name entertainer, whlch allows the two now-cracked·\\ and-hastily-patched fortre~ses to immerse themselves into the flux more slowly thafl they did~ Friday. The thousand-decible' music of the parties washes over them, separating yet uniting them. Some very lucky pairR~­ actually earn this night the true meaning of the unifying, turning-two-into-one term, NIX. on/ Agnew m 72 was a sure was arrested on charges of possessing thing. But on October 19,1971, marijuana. He claimed that having G h y b d Wh } y M the bottom began to fan out of been. behind in the polls for so long, at e r e R 0 s e u s i e e ay the American political scene. On that Just. once he wanted to be ahea?- · • · · . Thus, WJth the race down to Musk1e d · · · b ild' 'll that date, , se~eral DemocratiC and Nixon, it promised to be a close by D. Zenger a m1mstrat10n u mgs w1· not leaders - 0 Bnen, Unruh, Daley one. Harris and Gallup had since be immune from occupation and Bailey - met in New York mer~ed 1vith Apple Ltd., and \We've got to stop them. If I should the need arise.\ to discuss plans for the pred1cted that the outcome wo_uld be wanted a college surrounded by How many demonstrators do . . 4 7% to 45%, but couldn't dec1de on t? \I t 250 300 upcommg conventlOn. which candidate would win. On the super-structures, I would have you expec - expec - \Let's have it in a city with a Saturday before the election, all hell applied to Columbia. Co-ed or students to join me. This is going Republican mayor,\ growled broke loose. no co-ed, they're not going to to be the biggest rally in Union Daley, who meant his remark to No one knows how his name got build a gym in Jackson's history. I have 220 people signed be serious, and was surprised to on all the ballots, but the right Garden.\ up to protest, and more are hear it met with laughter. Larry petitions were filed, and the name S o s a i d s t u d e n t expected. I think we can get a d was entered as law prescribes. It was ·r· d t d t b d th' O'Brien suggested Boston, an November 1st when the country radical-activist Joel Ingram in an um Ie s u en o Y on lS Jesse Unruh countered with Los learned that Lyndon Johnson was a exclusive pre-demonstration issue.\ Angeles. Until this point, John candidate for the Presidency oon interview. Ingram, '72, has If a new gym is not erected, Bailey had remained silent, but ev~~~~~e·s~~~ 0 \he last minute organized a protest liberation of will that h~mper co-education? suddenly he llipped his glasses prospect (}f a three wa.y race, a Jackson's Garden on Wednesday. \We're for co-education. I could down off his forehead, made a harri~d President Nixon called an Excited and willing to talk, he even see a flew gym, just not on swee'ping gesture with his arms, emergency meeting with his aides. filled us in on his plans. Jackson's garden. I don't know and snapped, \Why the hell His eyes were heavy from lack of First we asked him about the where else. We could always don 't we do W1'tl1oUt another sleep and he neede a shave. Turn.ing stagger the gym days. If girls are to Herb Klein, Nixon barked \Get demonstration. \Man it's gonna goddamn convention? The last me whatsltisname on the phone.\ be beautiful and real. At 4:00 let in, Jackson's garden will be a time we had one, it screwed up Klein dialed, spoke briefly, and p.m. we'll occupy Jackson's necessity.\ the works plenty.\ Daley raised ~~~:s~~~nt.tlte phone over to the Garden and the Old Gym. It will Does he exphect dto win? \Of his eyes when he saw the other \Hello Spiro? Tricky Dick here. I try to be peaceful, but that's up course, man. T e a ministration men in the room nodding their want to ask you a ... shut up Spiro, to the Schenectady police. We're can't buck an entire student heads in agreement. ••what, are I'm talking. I want to ask you a not moving until plans for the body. We've got the numbers on You Crazy ? You gotta have a question. You know what tomorrow new gym are abandoned. What our side. Let me put it this way, · is? ... No, huh? Tomorrow's election convention.\ day, Spiro. Have you once gotten off the police are gonna do is I can't see any way we could \Says who,\ smiled Unruh. your fat duff and talked to the they're thing. We will, however, lose.\ \It's tradition, damnit. How electorate, Spiro? ... You haven't? be prepared for all Is this protest only a else we gonna pick a candidate?\ Whew, thank God for that. Good eventualities.\ beginning of further student O'Brien scratched his red ~~~~rr~~~- I'll speak to you What were his plans for police action? \I hope so. We have to hair, and began to think out On Tuesday, November 2, 1972, violence? \'Look let's get one change those sucky social rules, loud. \Why not plan for a exactly 34-'lo of this nation's eligible thing straight: we want no and other nonsense. We're gonna I f votes exercised their democratic b f 1 f · h convention, secrete y arrange or rights. Divided among Nixon, Muskie violence. If the cops start e a power u orce m t is the plans to get all botched up· and Johnson, the popular vote swinging, we'll have a number of college. By my senior year, I maybe have a few strikes or yielded to no one candidate an non-lethal weapons to respond should have more power than some good riots - cancel the electoral majority. The election to all violence. We might surprise the trustees, and so should convention and declare the would be decided in the House of th 'th l\ttl M f everyone else.\ Representatives and Lyndon Johnson e cops Wl a 1 e ace 0 decisions reached in the '68 wasglad. our own. The chemistry major What led you to student Convention as binding!\ \Hello Hubert? Listen, I want making it up for us prefers activism? How does it feel to Unruh, a man himself given you ... yes, Hubert, I'm pleased as anonnimity.\ lead this large a demonstration to clever schemes, approved. P u n c h t 0 0 • N ° w What if the demonstrators are as a freshman? \I've always been \Th I 'II . t look ... Hubert .. , Goddamnit, . . I' b en guess we JUS run Hubert, stop crying and listen to me. threatened with expulsion? \I an actlv1st. ve een on protest Hubert and Muskie again, I want you and the Polish kid to don't think the administration is marches since I was 14. I guess it right?\ withdraw from the race, and throw prepared to go this far. If they started really when a black guy your support to me. You know that I d d , h k h hr ill bl k h h d b Bailey grinned. \Though not can control Congress, and theref()re, I o, I on t t in t is t eat w· on my oc w o a een necessarily in that order.\ can win the election, you can't keep the demonstrators from almost a big brother to me came By now, Daley's massive neck Hubert. (long pause) Thank you, protesting. Of course, the back from a march in Mississippi b ki . I 'OK Hubert. I'm sorry.\ was rea ng out ln ras 1 · ' ' So the election was now between so we run two losers again. But Richard Nixon and Lyndon Johnson. how we going to get a city where Nixon's running mate was a political we're sure that enougll things non-entity, and Johnson's had not ill 1 h yet been named. With the House split w· go wrong to cance t e evenly, LBJ would use the open Vice convention?\ Presidency to woo the South. An embarrassed silen \Hello Strom? Lyndon ... \ followed, and no one looked up Thurmond listened to Johnson's at the speaker. proposal, thought for a moment, and \Oh Dick,\ Bailey mumbled, then, for the fourth time in 24 years, and the Mayor of Chicago cried. he changed his party allegiance. In So it was that the Democrats return, lte demanded approval of Johnson's running mate. \Christ had no convention, and indeed, Strom, the last time someone gave Announcernenl An example of the heights creative radio can reach will be displayed Saturday morning from 2-7 A.M. Two brilliant freshmen will experiment with the media and play material otherwise ignored by the static WRUC programmers. The boys, Danny Shocket and Mark Phillipo, have been described as \two of the most exciting creative minds WR UC has ever had on the staff.\ The men say of their show, \We expect to offend certain parties, as Lenny Bruce offended certain parties. We hope to stimulate the insomniacs at Union and Skidmore.\ Aayo11 ••ving DEWITT'S Gershon's a brother nmmed Sandwiches ZACHARY Cafeteria and Tap Room Cold Cuts Salads Please co•tact Fine Food ond legal S.verages Open Tues. Sun. Karen 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. at 393-5126 118- 120 JAY STREff Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. with one eye gone. To your other question, being only a freshmen doesn't bother me. All the same college.\ What does he think of Union? \Great possibilities. I'll wait to see what happens when chicks come to make a final opinion.\ He offered us some wine and we drank and rapped for another five minutes about ourselves. We then prepared to leave. Just before we left, Joel stopped us and gave us a small pamphlet. We thanked him and looked at it when he closed the door. It was instructions to make a molotov cocktail. \couple.\ . ·~ Sunday morning -- to those who are blessed - brings the rubble of two fortresses and th~~ sight of two naked human beings. It is the gentlest time of all. Sundays generally do mark rt • beginning. What did you do last Sunday? * * '* The preceeding has been a~' ,. fairy tale. If you do not believe it -that is just as well. ---------------------------------------------------f . ~ The Unabashed Truth About Union, Sex, Coed And Parietals; A Survey thing and are saving ourselves fo;-: marriage.\ Stolen by Jamil Falducciwitz It seems everyone from President Martin on down feels the end of parietals will be the beginning of the largest non-stop orgy since the wonderful days of the early Roman Empire. Everyone, that is except the Union students. In an extensive five day survey involving representatives from all walks of Union life, I found the reactions quite different. · A varsity football player said, \I know some guys who have had promiscuous relationships, and do they regret it. The girl doesn't respect you once you give in. After all, they have nothing to lose.\ A fraternity member told me, \My steady girl friend once mentioned the subject, and I told her to get out of. my car. I wasn't sure I had done the right thing t~ntil I had returned to the house. My brothers told me I had done the right thing.\ A campus luminary confided, \Of course I have heard of instances of a Union man succumbing to the demands of a consistent co-ed. Most of us, however, feel love is a one time With a Kate Smith record blaring in the background, ~)j tow-headed freshman declared, \Luckily the subject never comes up in Richmond. In Fox, however, an upper classmart asked a friend of mine if he . would go all the way. He didn't · know what it meant, but wher.) he found .out he reported the upperclassman to the dean.\ Even though the administration and the faculty': are issuing dire predictions about the future chastity of Union men, parietals or no parietals, f.. am sure Union students will graduate as pure as the driven snow. HARRAD COLLEGE lox 423 latha11, N .. Y. WELCOME AGAIN 2 or more SHIRTS • • • • • 2~ ea. PANTS • • 49c SUITS • • 98c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank D by] With· Nixon, become Tliis pre the style idea h All-AmeJ for tho necessar~ loaferpri Step Remembe Str«J Fret To theE The pointing of ment wear unconv ex.perim1 unusual legality, the unh human I not app traditior to the g1 Tradi from t about Traditio with succuml strives t world rr losing at Yout cry that is busy traditim on th~: themsel· the risi.J are the power that ha~ state of Men1 seen in, history science. are ex~ caught subjecti b Iinde cultura] thing; change (locale) Man he felt bound conven1 Then change didn't into pre sen alterr starva· pointin Not a.lterna1 discove bad aft Tim is IDCOi mental I hope. age of it to change in thi: anywa~ don't ! man. F MAK N 3 RAT A

'' I DAVID EISENHOWER IS POINTLESS • HOW TO BE 'LIKE HIM --2 a.m. pressure is Weekends. (for the' emanating Regions don't d<'. y official afternoon kerings an:r night suds super-ego its hous~'., :. .the I and says, as it, ismay. The to help both one. It Friday \)11 '~ begins -· concert by which I I 1o to the flux they did~ washes over by Lance F alducciwitz With the election of Richard Nixon, David Eisenhower has become the All-American boy. This presents a pr.oblem to all the style followers who have no idea how to become the All-American ~oy. This article is for those who will feel it necessary t0 folJow in David's loaferprints. Step One: Get a haircut. Remember the length of the hair on Stru'tfi:n,g a.n·d ifretfi:ng a,gain To the Edito:r: The youth of today are pointing the way to a new state of mental consciousness. They wear strange clothes and unconventional hair. They eKperiment with drugs and think unusual thoughts. They .flaunt legality, the terms irrlposed by the unhuman authority and the human parent. Today's youth do not appear very conceu.ed with tradition; actually they adhere to the greatest tradition of all. Tradition, as I have learned from the society that lurks about me, is resistance. Tradition fights cha.nge, and with a growing fear of uniting pairfi:A ~ the true succumbing to the inevitable, strives to halt time and make the world motionless. Of course it is unifying, term, •:ll -- to those brings the and thP,~ human time of do mark r!· Sunday? losing and youth know this. Youth have heeded Dylan's cry that he not busy being born is busy dying. They have fought tradition or, seeing the graffiti on the wall, have allowed themselves to be swept along by the rising tide of change. They are the first group with the power to be socially effective that has chosen to seek the new state of mental mobility. has been a~• \' not believe Mobility Mental. mobility has been seen in various forms throughout history. The objectivity of science. and religious toleration are examples. Men have been caught up in an intellectual subjectivity just as they were blinded by ethn(}centricism culturally. It's really all the same thing; man refused to accept change due to time or position (locale). ourselves fo;-: record ckground, [\' an declared, bject never In FoK, classmarf mine if he He didn't · but when reported the dean.\ ugh the the facult)~: about y of Union o parietals, !~ will the driven ~ IS N.Y. N 93 I Bank Change Man was afraid of change, for l1e felt that his life was tightly bound to the security of the conventional and the familiar. Then he started to eKplore, change his locale. Of course he didn't want to. He was forced into it by mature which presented him with such alternatives as drought, starvation and disease, all pointing the way towards death. l! Not enthused with the alternatives, man moved and discovered that change wasn't so It bad after all . Hope Time flowed, and now youth is incorporating· change into his mental framework- perminently I hope. Man is heading for a new age of mental mobility, allowing it to perceive and adapt to \ change, thus insuring its future in this level of consciousness anyway. Time and the universe don't stand still and neither can man. RICHARJ) NUTT '72 FIRST TERM BILLS ARE DUE FOR ·lb·tNtw iforkliutt$ MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: Neal J. Gordon 306 West College• RATES: $ 5.50 Weekdays $ 5.50 Sundays $10.50 7 Days ALL BILLS ARE DUE BY DECEMBER 1, 1968 the head of that boy your grandmother thinks so much of'! Cut it that way. lmpoJ:tant! Do not cut off too much that your hair can't boyishly fall over your fmehead. Step two: Don't question. Acceptance is the better par·t of acceptance. Be condescending to those in your peer group. Good phrases: \My father-in-law, right or wrong,\ \I want change also, but within the system.\ and \We haven't had · our elders' expetience.\ Good Bumper sticker: 1: have a connection. Step three: Develop a winning smile. Under all circumstances, show at least 2 7 teetll. If you find this difficult, wire veur cheeks. You know you have it when you walk on a bus and an old lady smiles instead of clutchin·g tight.er on her pocketbook. Step four: Alienate aU your old friends. Never wear blue-jeans, but suits. ·Convince them that marijuana melts your spine. Decline drinks. Apoligize when you curse. Good works: square, hep, boss, Thing?, colored person. , Step five: Drink Coca-cola. Liquor corrupts. If you backslide, always giggle while you drink. Good cemment: \Gosh this is strong!\ Step six: Destroy your sex urge (I didn't say this was going 1o be easy). lf you have trouble, ask any Republican. Instructions come with any \Nixon's the One\ button. Step seven: Get engaged to Gln ugly girl who has a powerful father. This has two purposes. One is, of course, the powerful father can be a great help. The second serves to prove your not interested in lust, but it's what underneath that counts. Don't worry about what your friends say, you've already alienated them. Step eight: Get excellent marks, not an education. Keep reminding your professors what great instructors they are. Base all original .p3:pers on what they said in class. Take easy courses with long titles. Tell the dean your best friend has a Start here and find the one beer to have when you're having more than one. {H:int: It's the best-selling beer in the East.) copy of a final (only after you've seen it). Good comments: \Yes sir, I see my mistake now.\ \Can I hel}> you with those, Professor?\ and ••rrn gonna miss this old place when I graduate.\ Step nine: Become a vocal president of the college's Y0ung Republican's club. Shake your head with an amused smile when passing leftist demonstrations. Quote William Buckley's column. Good comments: \Who helped the Swedes, Poles, and Jews when they came over?\ \Dissent is necessary, but violence cannot be telerated.\ and \WhaCs good for G.E. is good for the country.\ Step ten: Secure the following items: (1) \UP With People\ album; i( 1} autograph book; (1) copy of , .. How to Win Friends and Influence People\; (1) Prophylactic t0 cover yo11r tongue if y0u go all the way and French kiss; a draft card; a family ,picture in your wallet; and the latest c:opies of Time and The Readers Digest. You are now prepared to join David Eisenhower in the new Iook If you can't seem to make it, try harder. There is nothing like being \out\ for four years. Ask David. Schaefer Breweries, ~ew Vorl< and Albany, N.Y., Baltimore, Md.

Marketing at IBM \Working with company presidents is part ,of the job:' \I'm pretty much the IBM Corporation in the eyes of my customers,\ says Andy Moran. \That kind of responsibility's not bad for an engineer just two years out of school.\ Andy earred his B.S.E.E. in 19S6. Today, he's a Marketing Representative with IBM, involved in the planning, selling and installa- tion of data processing systems. Plenty of business experience \Engineering was my first love,\ Andy says, \but I still wanted good business experience.\ So far, he's worked with customers involved in many different computer applications, from engineering to business. His contacts go from data processing managers all the way up to the president of his largest account. \At first I was a little nervous about working at that level,\ says Andy. \But then you realize you're trained to know whath e's trying to learn. That gives you confidence. You're helping him solve his problem.\ With his working partner, the data proc- essing Systems Engineer, Andy has helped many customers solve their information handling problems. \I get a broad overview of business because I run into every kind of problem going. Sometimes I know the solu- tions from experience. Other times I need help from my manager. \That's one of the best things. My manager is more of a backup than a boss. He's there when I need him. Usually, I pretty much call my own shots.\ Andy's experience isn't unusual at IBM. There are many Marketing and Sales Repre- sentatives who could tell you of similar experiences. And they have many kinds of academic backgrounds: business, engineer- ing, liberal arts, science. They not only sell data processing equipment as Andy does, but also IBM off.ice products and information records systems. Many of the more technically inclined are data processing Systems Engineers. Cheek with your placement CJffice If you're interested in the opportunities for engineers and scientists at IBM, ask your place- ment office for more information. Or send a letter or resume to Paul Koslow, IBM Corporation, Dept.C,425 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022. We'd like to hear from you even if you're headed for graduate school or military service. ·An Equal Oppo.rtunity Employer -~ ·u \ ,,, : i . I I ~~I.. ~J I. I 11 \ !I• I' ll ~; 1/ \ ! ., i ;o I Conflict Groff in th December Ex\amin below is th BH-Bail BU-But CH-Can EE-Elec GL-Geo HH-Ho! HU-Hul PL-Phy1 PY-Psy( SS-Soci MONDAY 9:00- Comp. Niemeyer Comp. · • HU 115-1 Camp. i I I I Rozendaal Comp. 22- Prof. .o. ~ Camp. ·Areas of( Greek: Chemio Prof. Ree( Chemif 201- Prof Ceo log Whitney Physic1 Prof. Titu I I I ~ :1> •' \ I ... 2:00-4:0 Econo 016- Mr. Econo 117- ProJ Englisl Prof. Kilb Histor in SS llS Histor Hansen · Germa Schlebus( Spanis Spanish i Philos• Parker Biolog Prof. But Chemi Prof. Sch Mathe Values)- E. 24 C. Allen E. 53 Mr. Plesu

'II\ ·~ ·u 11 ~i ,., : i ,j ., i I ) ':! .. 'i l:: ii ~; \ I I ! lz ''i ;o I •• ''B.ut No Scales To Weigh Your Unknown Treasure ••• \ . Kahlil Gibr~n FIN.A!L EXAMINATION· SCHEDULE First Term · 1968-69 Conflicts in .examinations should he reported to Mrs. De Groff in the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, December 2, 1968. Ex\aminations will be held .in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings :to be used. BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butter.field Hall CH-Carnegie Hall EE-Elecbical Engineering Bldg. GL-Geology Laboratory HH-Hoadley House HU-Humanities Bldg. PL-Physics Laboratory PY -Psychology Lahovatory SS-Social Sciences Bldg. MONDAY,DECEMBER 9 9:00-11:00 A.M. C.E. 40 (Structures II)- in 'CH305 -Mr. Pikul TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10 9:00-ll :00 A.M. Economics 31 (Microeconornic Analysis) · in PL 202- Mr. Bryant History W (Introduction •to Institutions and ldeas in the Western World) ·in SS 016.- •J.lr-of. Hansen History 31 ('Fhe New rlit.ti()n: The United States, 1765-1800)· in SS 117 · Prof.Olton History 36 (Modern America: The New Deal and After) -in EE 22 -Prof. Jonas French 10 (Basic French 1) -·in HU 115 - Mr. ·Le·Cierc Spanish '11 (Basic Spanish U)- in HU 114 - Mrs. Rawe Political Science 41 (Comparative Government) - in SS 112 ·Mr. Connor Sociology 10 ~Human Society I)- in SS ll5 · Prof, Fox Biology 48 (Biochemical Aspects of Cell Physiology) - in BH 304 -Prof. Lambert E. 47 (l'rinciples of Bigital' Computers)- in EE 24- Mr _ Plesums A.S. 40 (The Professional 0fficer I) - in HH - CoL O'Bier German 30 (Readings in Contempol:'ar.y German Literature) ·in HU 014 · Prof. Klemm Philosophy 41 (Social and Political :Philosophy) -in HU 116 · Miss Parker Political Science 66 (Presidential Politics) · in EE 22 . Prof. W. Daniels Biology 38 (Biology of Animal Parasites) - in BH 304 . Prof. Styles Chemistry 14 (The Structure of Matter) .. jn BU 201 · Prof. Reed Chemistry 42 (Advanced Analytical Cluinistry) -in BU 201 - Prof. Lanese Physics 32 (Electricity and Magnetism I) . in PL 105 . Prof. Wylen E. 31 (Fluid Systems Analysis) - in CH 301 - Prof. Ketchum E.E. 30 (Transmission Networks)· Sec. 1 -in EE 1'6 ·Mr. Morrison Sec. 2 · in EE 24 · Prof. Craig M.E. 44 (Reactor Engineering) . in C H ll'l . Prof. Leary 2:00-4:00 P.M. . Economics 27 (Statistical Methods). German 10 (Basic German I). Sec. l -in HU 115 -Mr. Peschka Sec. 2 - in HU 117 · Prof. Klemm Sec. 3- in HU 115 ·Mr. Peschka The Prophet, 1<>23 German 40 (German Literature from the Middle Ages to the Enlightenment) - in HU 117. Prof. Klemm . Russian 10 (Basic Russian I) - in HU Olc5 - Prof. Petelchuk Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry I) . in BU 201 . Prof. W. Martin, Prof. Maycock Mathematics 42 (Vector Analysis and· Complex Variables) · in PL 105 · Prof. Stone . - Mathematics 44 (Topology I)· in CH 201 · Prof. llallard E. I 0 (Systems, Computers and Design I)- Sec. l -in EE 22 · Prof. Goodheart Sec. 2 - in CH 301 -Prof. Male Sec. 3 -in EE 22 · Prof. Ingvarsson Sec. 4 -in CH 1 H -Prof. Haag E.E. 31 (Applied Laplace and Fourier Transfmoos) . in EE 16. Prof. Craig FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13 9:00-11:00 A.M. I q I I Comp. Ed. 22 (Concept of the Hero) -in SS 016 · Prof, Niemeyer Camp. Ed. 27 (Human Development in the Tropics) · in • HU 115 . ·Prof. Bristol 2:00-4:00 P.M. French 43 (The Writers of. Romanticism) - in HU 119 - Prof. Raser Sec. 1 ·in SS 012 ·Mr. Hartwig Sec. 2 -in SS 0,14 ·Prof. Aroian Russian 30 (Readings in Contemporary Russian Literature) · in HU }.[ 0 · Prof. Petelchuk Latin 31 (Latin Literature) -in HU 110- Prof. Reece English 44 (Representative English Dramas). inHl:J 114 · Prof. Niemeyer History 54 (The Spanish and Portuguese Empires in America) -in SS ll 0 · Prof. Bristol tl .. l i i I I l I I j \ ! .. Comp. Ed. 60 (Man As An Organism) · in BH 304 ·Dr. Rozendaal . Comp. Ed. 62 (Principles of DigitaiComputers) -in EE 22 - Prof. Hoffman Camp. Ed. BO (Individual Liberty and Social Order: · Areas of Conflict) -in PL 202 · Prof. N. Allen Greek 30 (Homer)- in HU H3'- Mr. Ross Chemistry 10 (Fundamental 'Chemistry) -in BU 201 · Prof. Reed, Prof.}. Daniels, Prof. Maycock Chemistry 44 (Advanced Physical Chemistry) · in BU 201 - Prof. J. Daniels Geology 10 (Physical Geology) - in GL 24 · Prof. Whitney Physics 20 (Introduction to Astronomy) -in CH 201 - Prof. Titus 2:00-4:00 P.M. Economics 10 .(Elementary Economics - Part I) - in SS 016 ·Mr. Kershner Economics 11 (Elementary Economics - Part II)· in SS 11 7 · Prof. Prosper English 13 (Major American Authors) · in HU ll5 · Prof. Kilburn History 11 (A Survey of Modern Europe, 1715-1939)· in SS liS- Mr. Berk History 49 (19th Century Europe) - in SS 112 - Prof. Hansen German 11 (Basic German II) - in HU 117 · Mr. Schlebusch Spanish 30 (Readings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish American Literature)· in HU 114 · Mrs. Rawe Philosophy 30 (Greek Philosophy) · in HU 110 · Miss Parker Biology 15 (Continuity of Life - Core V) - in BH 304 · Prof. Butzcl Chemistry 34 (Quantitative Chemistry) - in BU 201 · Prof. Schaefer Mathematics 40 (Orthological Functions and Boundary Values) - in CH 108 · Prof. Sarma E. 24 (Electric and Magnetic Circuits)· in EE 16 ·Prof. C. Allen E. 53 (Numerical Methods for Computers) · in EE 24- Mr. Plesums History 62 (Traditional China) - in SS 112 · Mr. Thurston Political Science 44 (Contemporary Japanese Political Institutions) - in SS 112 · Mr. T'htuston Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) · Sec. l - in BH 304 · Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2 -in BU 201 · Prof. ·Holt Sec. 3 - in B U 20 l - Prof. Gillette Sec. 4 -in PL 202 . Mr. Leach Sec. 5 -in EE 22 - Mrs. Corman Sec. 6- ia BH 304- Mr.Sirait Sec. 7 - ia PL 202 . Prof. Seiken Sec. 8 - in B U 201 . Prof. Ballard Mathematics 12 (Calculus H). Sec. 1 -in BH 304- Mr. Strait Sec. 2 - ia PL 202 · Prof. llick Mathematics 14 (Calculus III)'- Sec. 1 -in EE 22 - Mr. Riley- Sec. 2- in BU 201. Prof. Holt Sec. 3 -in BU 201 -Prof. Stone Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations)- Sec. 1 -in P'L 202- Mr. Leach Sec. 2 . in EE 22 ·Mr. Riley- Mathematics 31 (Linear AlgebJ:'a) - Sec. I ·in BU 201 -Prof. Gillette Sec. 2 -in PL 202 . Prof. Bid Psychology 47 (History ami Systems of Psychology) -in PY 113 · Prof. Calabria WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER L 1 9:00-11:00 A.M. Classics ll (History ofGreece)- in SS 016- Prof. Reece Greek lO (Principles of Creek) · in HU 119 - Mr. Ross English 55 (Literature of tllc Seventeenth Century)· in HU 113 - Prof. Nelson French 11 (Basic French II). Sec. l ·in PL 202 - Prof. 'R<Jberts Sec. 2 -in PL 202 - Mr. Le Clerc French 31 (A General '\\iew of French Literature) · in PL 202 - Prof. Roberts German 12 (Basic ·German III) - in HU ll 7 · Mr. Schlebusch WHY NOT? Professor Klaus H. Pringheim of M~M aster University, Hamilton, O~tta.rio, will speak to the Biology 51 (Ecology) -in BH 304. Prof, George Mathematics 18 (Introduction to Abstract Systems) . in CH lOB · Mr. Behan Physics 40 (Introductory Quantum Mech.anics) . in PL 204- Mr. Hooverman Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychol~gy). Sec. 1 . in PL 202- Prof. Huntley Sec. 2 ·in PY 1:02 · Prof. Girdner Sec. 3 ·in EE 22 - Prof. Calabria Sec. 4- in PY 213 · Mrs. Hesse Psychology 42 (Theory and Practice of Mental Testing) ·in PY 113- Prof. Pearce THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12 9:00-11:00 A.M. Music 10 (Introduction to Music) - ia HU 019 -Prof. Curtis, Prof. H. Wilson Classics 25 (The Western Heritage: Gr-eek md Hebrew Background)· in SS 016 ·Prof. Bradbury Economics 41 (Money and Banking)· in PL 202 - Mo. Behrens English 62 (The Early Victorians) - in flU IIO . Prof. Ullmann History 39 (The Intellectual Tradition of American Diplomacy)· in SS 014- Prof. Jonas History 70 (The Old Russia of Kiev and Ivlllscovy) . in SS 012- Mr. Berk Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic) - h EE 22 . Prof. Peterson Political Science 11 (The American Political System) . in PL 202. Prof. Underwood Sociology 34 (Minorities and Social Movements)· in SS 113- Prof. Willison Sociology 35 (Social Problems and Social Structure). in SS 112 ·Prof. Fox American Studies 61 (Junior Semin:u) -in SS 010 . Prof. Potts Biology 12 (Cell Biology · Core ll) . i.n BH 304 · Prof. Butzel Geology 30 (In vertebrae Paleontology) in G L 24 - Prof. Park 2:00-4:00 P.M. Latin 10 (Principles of Latin)- in HU Ill}· Mr. Ross Chinese 10 (Basic Chinese I) -in HU 116 -Pr-of. Woo International Relations Club Tuesday, December 3 in the Old Chapel. ACC Chinese 30 (Modern Chinese I)· in HU 119- l'rof. 'Woo Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish ill) -in HU 116 ·Mrs. Vinic!< Philosophy 10 (Introduction to Philosophy) - in HU 115- Mr. Foster Chemistry 46 (Advanced Inorganic Chemistry) -·ir:t BU 201 ·Prof. Weick Mathematics 36 (Real Variable TheQry I)- in CII 201 . Prof. Sarma Psychology 24 (Social Psychology) . in PY 102 . Prof. Calabria Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) · in PY' 113 . Prof. Graves E. 20 (Rigid-Body Mechanics) · in CH 111 . Prof. Panlilio E. 50 (Fortran Programming) - in EE 22. Mrs. Cof1ll~n C.E. 42 (Soil Mechanics) ·inCH 304- Prof. Harlo:nr 2:00-4:00 P.M. History 20 (British History to the Wars of the Roses) . in SS 115 ·Prof. N Allen Spanish 10 (Basic Spanish I) · Sec. 1 ·in HU 115- Mrs. Vinick Sec. 2 ·in HU 114 · Mrs. Rawe Physics 13 (Electric and Magnetic Effects and Opti~s)­ Sec. 1 -in PL 202 -Mr. Schubert Sec. 2 -in PL 202 -Prof. C. Swartz Psychology 31 (Abnormal Psychology) - in PY 102 . Prof, Pearce P~ychology 64 (Seminar I) · in PY ll3 · Prof. (;iJ:\dner E.E. 42 (Servo Systems and Control) - in EE 22 . Prof. Russ M.E. 30 (Dynamics of Linear Systems) - in Cll 301 ., Prof. Aubrey · A.S. 30 (Growth and Development of Aerospace l\<nv-er I)- in HH ·Capt. Johnson Concord (Continued from page 1) Why not fly Mohawk home~for Traditional Natttral Shotilder Clothing student responsibility:; be added to the new legislation as a preamble. It passed 8-0 with two abstentions. The text of the legislation will appear in the next issue of Concordiensis on Tuesday, Dec. 3, after the work of the committee on style has been completed. (Continued from page 1) Economics department. Kramer said Bennett will also be leaving West Virginia in the n.ea:r future, but that the .exact d~te h.as not yet been decided. President Martin a)s() refused to comment on reports. that he or any other represe:ntatives of this college travelled to (:oncord concerning the affair. Dean Martin Lichterman said lasi night, however, that Dean James Pahner had in fact been in Athens on Wednesday along with Bernard R. Car011U1 of the Public Relations Offic.e. Thanksgiving? It's a groovy. way to travel. You get there quicker. Your vacation's longer. Mohawk serves 75 cities in l() states and Canada. If you aren't going home, but just want to travel, check Mohawk's \Consecutive Executive\ plan. Five days unlimited travel. 'Fare is good from 12:0.1 a.m. Monday to midnight Friday. Call Mohawk and make positive space reservations on as many flights as you can. Then, GO to as many cities as your ingenuity and sta~nina allow. (If you're not an executive, do it anyway. We won'ttell.) MOHAWK AIRLINES For reservations, call Mohawk or your travel agent Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 61 st Year in Downtown Schenectady Reservations about the system itself were expressed in Wednesday's meeting by four of the ACC members, but they all indicated they thought it would be tried. The original proposal of the system was made at a student council meeting two weeks ago, then at the first ACC meeting of the ·year. It was passed by I Student Council and later sent· to an ad hoc ACC committee for investigation. Neal Gordon '69, ACC student representative.at-· large, headed that committee. Other committee members were Craig Carlson '70, Jeff Kurzius '69, Professor Sherwood Fox of the sociology department, Ruth V. Parker, instructor in philosophy, and Richard Lucas, director of residence programs. The committee was commended for its research. Dean Palmer would not comment on Lich.terman~s statement, howe'Ver, and Kramer, while refusi:n~ specifk comment, implied tha.t there had been contact between administrators of tbe tw<J colleges. \No comment\ was th.e most commonly-voiced ~atement from educational administrators last night, an.d until Concordiensis reached Krame:r, whether or not the Union contingent woulod return remained unconrumeid. The future of the experimental C~tnp. Ed. program with Concord also remains uncertain, for on that subject as well, C()tncordiensis was unable to flnd ~ comment

HAMILTON BEAT Concordy Gamet 4th In Lambert Bowl The 7-1 Garnet gridders moved up one position in the final week to place fourth in the voting for the Lambert Bowl, emblematic of supremacy in Division Ill of the Eastern Co liege Athletic Conference. Ahead of the Dutchmen were first rartked Wilkes, owners of a 29-game winning streak, King's Point, the only victor over Union this season, and Albright, Middle Atlantic Conference College Division Champ. The ECAC also honored Rich Swan by naming the junior standout pass receiver to its weekly aU-star team. Swan puUed in bombs of 80 and 79 yards for two scores in the 22-13 victory over Hamilton. Ken Pearce and Jerry Ostrander were also nominated for the team. Linebacker Charlie Reppun of Hamilton was selected for the team on the basis of his 19 tackles and one interception. Art Jacobs, Doug Mele. Tom Oberst, and Larry Sykes (twice) were also honored by the ECAC this season. Swan was named as ihe Sophomore of the Year by that group last season. . Swan was als0 named as Independent College Athletic Conference player of the week for his showing at Harnilt(m. Previous Garnet winners were Jacobs and Sykes, while the gridders copped the IC AC league title. Final Lambert Bowl Standings: Kanklnt; I Wilkes 8-0-0 76 2 King's Point 8-1-0 73 3 Albright 8-1-0 63 4 UNION 7-1-0 58 S Trinity 6-2-0 40 6 Maryland State 5-2-l 36 34 Sports a,-.o NEXf YEAR VOL98, N Phi ~ • . Top! I· II\ I I' hi Sigma 2 Delta Chi l Phi I l''ilt 4 ('hi Pst 7 Juniata 7-2-0 8 Franklin& Marshall 6-2-0 9 Delaware Valley 6-2-0 28 17 ECAC weekly pick Rich Swan, who caught .passes of 79 and 80 yards. for touchdowns against , .- Hamilton Saturday, being stopped by a Blue defender in that contest. Swan returned to action after a case of,tnurnpsthat sidelined him for the Alfred game. · e 5 llt:lta Up! 6 llt:!J Thct 7 IJclta Phi 1! Stgma Ph ') r hcta [)e 10 Phi Stgtr 11 Phi Delt: 12 Sigma C 13 Psi Upsil 14 Alpha D 15 PhiGam 16 Kappa A -~ ''' ··,~f ' . ~'-. . . .f' . ' .~ Gal'net junior quarterback Ken Pearce, who led the Dutchmen to a 7-1 season, in action against Alfred. Pearce completed exactly half of the 210 passes he attempted this season, for a total of 1183 yards and eight touchdowns. Sophomore star halfback Jerry Ostrander blocks on the play. Photo by Rich Kremer. INTF!AMURALS With the end of the fall term rapidly approaching, the intramural sports picture is slowly clarifying as games postponed by the weather are completed. Rain and snow made the completion of the football league playoffs .difficult; the tourney was concluded only one day before the season's first blizzard. Delta Phi won the touch football brown, defeating Beta on November 11, 13-6. To reach the playoffs, D Phi had to beat D U for the Southern Division championship after both teams ended the regular season with 4-1 records. D lYs loss came at the hands of none other than D Phi, while the latter fell to the Independents. The Northern Division champ, Phi Sigma Kappa, lost to Beta in the semi-finals, 28-6. D Phi was awa1ded the bye into the frnals on the toss of a coin. The Ba.dminton and Volleyball tourneys are both still i nder way, and should be concluded before Thanksgiving. Phi Ep of the Southern Division has already won both titles in that section with unbeaten records. In a crucial match yesterday, the Phi Eps wrapped up the Volleyball crown against old rival D Chi, 15-9 and 1614. In the second game, the Phi Eps came back from a 14-9 deficit. Fiji has won the Northern Volleyball title, with Theta Delta Chi the champs of the East. 111 Badminton, D Phi and Fiji lead the North, while Beta looks to be the team to beat in the East. Vinirks Men's Shop Specialists in Collegiate Wear 514 State Street at Lafayette Park & Shop Free Porki.ng 10 Muhlenberg 6-2-0 i1 . l-l()()psterS•·· Pre.p. · . ~ . . . ' . . ·. .· ·. by HENRY FEIN With the December opener at Harpur less than two weeks away, hoop Coach Chris Schmid has begun practices in ernest. A starting line-up is starting to take form even though Jess than a week of formal workouts have been held. Before this Monday, Coach Schmid worked with the team only when his duties as Garnet defensive football mentor permitted. Cliff Feldman has left the squad since the last report, and Schmid has thus been forced to alter the lineup. As the squad now stands, Bill Boehmke and Rich Heiden will split the duties at center, with Bill Neidel, Jim Getman, and Jeff Kirkpatrick at the fowards. The latter was originally slated to start as a guard. Barry Katzman and Warren Mumford will probably be the backcourt starters, with Dave Shames and Ed Buzack in reserve. Art Jacobs at foward and Dale Long at guard will give the Garnet added depth. Rit Galucci is still a question mark, although he is expected ro se~ action Tater in the season. On his frrst day of practice Monday, Rit wrenched his back and will be lost for at least a week. The Garnet face a tough schedule this season, especially at home. After the Harpur opener the Dutchmen face Hartford the fdllowing night in the fieldhouse to kick-off the home season. The Hawks, as ~-------------------------------~ VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries Magazines 200 ~OTT TERRACE F R 7-9834 Down to Louis', let vs go, Let the lager freely flow. with milny .clubs on the slate, are stronger this season than last. Aided bu a good group of sophotn<Jres and basically the same starting five as last year, Hartford has been called \a great ball club .. _one that we can't beat ifwe're exhausted.\ Because of the tough Hartfmd contest the following night, Schmid hopes to use \eight or nine\ ballplayers against Harpur to produce a Garnet victory. If the starters can be spelled early and often, the Dutchmen may have enough left to give Hartford a good fight. Schmid said, \We're going to have to win big on the road if we hope ,to have a winning season, because our home schedule is really tough.\ Among the foes the Grunet will entertain are such powers as Rochester, Amherst, and Wesleyan. After th.e Hartford contest, the !h<Jopsters will travel to Norwich on December 7. During the vacation, the squad will travel to the New York area to play 'Drew and Upsala on the weekend of December 17-18 before heading to Michigan for the H() pe Tourney on December 27-28. SCHLOCK Coil ch Ron Coleman is lookhlg for a manager for the 1969 Garnet wrestling team. Anyone interested should please see Mr. Coleman at the gym immediately. <ERCO~ E'S ArLANTIC STATION Finest Gasoline In Schenectady Guaranteed Service 71lt40TT ST. 377-9866 A unique place to dioe with old E'-!ropean Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RE·STAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 St<ih ond Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14tH! YEAR For reserve~tions phone FR 4-8917 ~---------------~---------------------------~--------------------~---------, HOLIDAY HOURS: Monday - Friday - 9 P.M. Phi Sigr ., 0 Stephen P for the fir: • • • the third ti 1953, Ec Students, a The Brc top fratern and acader Phi Sig i brother. The bn the troph) • 1 winner anc Dean 1\ week ago , the Brow: points ear for the 1 \ · t1 Malloy sa had been Phi Ep revised fir and Delta Phi Si Brown Cu existence and 1954· The B the basis the three works: Union' sixteenth and activ found by in the thr Phi Si! activities, activities intramun each intr academic Presid< parietal Trustees Affairs. I make a c of the Wi Becau: the Tm minutes proposal, parietal l final dec to Presid Clarif~ Martin s power tc previous ·make th

