\A Causa ;Persa Parole Assai\ School's A Gut Founded at Union College 1877 11s against , ,.. [)fl after a • • VOL 98, No. 18 Ph·i Sigma De,:lta Takes Cup,; Tops Fraternities For '67 -8 IINAL STANDINGS, BROWN C'UP :1967-68 AC'T. INT. ACA. I Phi Sigma Delta 3 6 2 Delta Chi 1 3 1 Phi I i''ilon Pi ') 5 4 UliPsl s 7 5 lh:lta Up~ilon II 2 h llt:tJ Theta ·Pi 6 I 7 IJt:lta Phi 8 Sigma Phi 7 4 . X S1gma Phi H 13 ') f hcta Ol'lta Chi 10 10 I 0 Pin S1gma Kappa 13 12 11 Phi Delta Theta 14 9 12 Sigma Chi 2 15 13 Psi Upsilon 4 16 14 Alpha Delta Phi 12 14 15 Phi Gamma Delta 15 8 16 Kappa Alpha 16 11 Phi Sigma Delta has won its own Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy for the first time in 13 years and for the third time since the honor began in 19 53, Edward Malloy, Dean of Students, announced today. The Brown Trophy honors Union's top fraternity in intramurals, activities and academics and was established by Phi Sig in memory of a former brother. The brothers of Phi Sig will take the trophy from Delta Chi, last year's winner and this year's runner-up. 2 9 I 4 s 12 II 7 H 3 6 15 14 10 13 16 ·Previous winners: TOTAL I 966-7 - Delta Chi II 1965·6 · Phi Epsilon P1 13 1964-5 - Chi Psi 1 'i I 'Jfd-4 Chi P-.1 16 1962-3 Ch1 Psi 18 1961-2 Phi L ps1lo n P1 19 1959-60 Beta 1 hcta 'Pi 22 195~-9 Kappa Nu 2H ( bc,.:amc Phi Lp~ilon Pi in 1960) 2B 195 7-8 Kappa Nu 28 1956-7 Kappa Nu 29 1955-6 - KappaNu 32 1954-5 - Phi Sigma Delta 34 1953-4- PhiSigmaDelta 36 36 43 member for the year. The total of 11 beat Delta Chi with 13, first in activities, third in intramurals and ninth in academics. Phi Epsilon Pi placed first among the 16 fraternities in academics while Beta Theta Pi, placing six.tll overall, won the intramural trophy. In the 15 year history of the Brown Trophy, Phi Epsilon Pi has won eight times; Phi Sig, three; Chi Psi, twice; and Delta Chi and Beta Theta Pi, one each. SCHENECTADY, N.Y., DECEMBER 3,1968 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Schaffers Establish Program In Honor Of Carter Davidson Trustee and Jlilrs. Henry Schaffer have given the college $100,000 to establish a fellowship program in memory of the late Dr. Carter Davidson, former president of the college. Trustee and Mrs. Henrv Schaffer of Schenectady have given Union College S 100,000 to establish a program in memory uf former Union president Dr. Carter Davidson, which will bring to the collef!e distinf!uished men :md WUJHC!l 111 f1ehl' rc:latt•d to undergraduate interests. The program. the Davidson Fellows Fund, will hring fur stJy s of three day~ to two weeks, visitors who will give at least nne puhlic lecture. several small-group sessions. ami i nJ ividual conferences with selected students. It will supplement the existing program of visiting lecturers at Union which, this year, includes such people as John Dos Passos, Dick Gregory, Hans J. Morgenthau, Dwight MasDonald, and Andreas Papandreuo. The visitors in the Davidson Fellows program may be chosen from any area of public life, but most will be persons of eminence in public affairs, letters, or the arts. Visitors will be selected by a joint committee of students, faculty, and administrators either on their own initiative or from nominations by any member of the college community. At present it is uncertain whether the program will go into effect this year. In making the announcement, Dr. Dean Malloy's office announced a week ago that Phi Epsilon Pi had won the Brown Cup, which is based on points earned in the three categories for the 196 7-8 academic year, but Malloy said Monday that a mistake had been made in the computations. John Patrick Kelleher Killed In Albany Accident Harold C. Martin, noted that \Mr. Schaffer's gift is meant to continue Dr. Davidson's strong interest in promoting a good cultural climate for undergraduate education.\ , p . \ Phi Epsilon Pi placed third in the revised final standings behind Phi Sig and Delta Chi. Phi Sigma Delta also won the Brown Cup in the first two years of its existence for the school years 1953-4 and 1954-5. The Brown Trophy is awarded on the basis of equal rankings in each of the three categories. Here is how it works: Union's 16 houses are rated first to sixteenth in academics, intramurals, and activities; the final standings are found by adding each fraternity's rank in the three categories. Low total wins. Phi Sig, for example, placed third in activities, based on average number of activities for each member; sixth in intramurals, based on games won in each intramural sport; and second in academics, based on average index a The parents of John Patrick Kelleher '70 will receive notes of condolence this week from President Martin and Dean of Students Edward Malloy. The files of the five-year electrical engineering-industrial economics major were removed from the Dean's office today; he was killed in an automobile collision in Albany early Thanksgiving morning. John Patrick Kellelter Martin Refers Parietal Plan For Trustees Consideration President Martin must refer the new parietal hours proposal to The Trustees Committee on Student Affairs. If possible the Trustees will make a decision before the beginning of the Winter Term. Because of a misunderstanding of the Trustees Executive Committee minutes on the previous parietal , proposal, the ACC Committee for new parietal hours mistakenly thought the final decision was now exclusively up to President Martin, not the Trustees. Clarifying the point, President Martin stated that he only had the power to make minor changes in the previous parietal proposal, and not make the final decision on a new system of parletals. President Martin said he has already known what he Will do if the Trustees decide to leave the decision up to him. He said there is a possibility that the Trustees will do this but he declined to comment what his decision would be if this happened. The following is a complete text of the revised parietal proposal The All College Council unanimously passed yesterday. Since the student body meeting The ACC has added sections liB, IV, and V. as amendments. In the opening paragraph (1-5) are former Dean Theodore Lockwood's original suggestions which The ACC chose to include in the present proposal. Text of final proposal on parietals can be found on page 2. He was buried Saturday morning in St. Agnes Cemetery, Syracuse, folloWing services at the St. James Church and Ballweg-Lunsford Funeral Home, also in Syracuse. Albany Police charged Michael Spicer, 19, of 18 Pennsylvania Avenue, Albany, with driving while impaired and intoxicated and with criminal negligence and homicide in connection with the two-car crash at the intersection of Hudson and Quill Streets. He is being held in lieu of $15,000 bail, awaiting action by the Grand Jury. Frosh Elections Freshman class elections may soon become a reality! The Student Council recently disclosed it will hold primary elections Friday, Jan. 10, and final elections Monday, Jan. 13. In addition, those freslunen still desirous of running for an office may pick up petitions in the Student Activities Office; the deadline for these petitions is Friday, Dec. 13. After the primaries, in order to \give the guys a better chance to know each other\ Bill Dawson, President, Class of '71 and organizer of the election, suggested that each candidate visit every freshman living unit to make his campaign speech. Otherwise, Mr. Dawson suggested that the freshman meet in Memorial Chapel to hear all the speeches. Mr. Dawson stated that the reasons for delaying elections were because of the debate in the Student Council concerning the new constitution, and the lack of time necessary to co-ordinate election procedures. Referring to the new constitution, Mr. Dawson said that now the officers must \exist to maintain the present system.\ Once elected, the president of the freshman class will have little to say in choosing entertainment for Winter Weekend. The Tax Committee has already made such provisions. The freshmen officers will have to set up all technical and publicity work, to \try to make money.\ Pl>lice said the Spicer-driven vehicle, northbound on Quill, struck the car driven by Mr. Kelleher which was travelling west on Hudson. Mr. Kelleher was thrown from the car. The brothers of Beta Theta Pi, Mr. Kelleher's fraternity, Monday were making plans for a memorial, but were uncerta.in what it would be. Several of the brothers attended Saturday's funeraL • A resident of Syracuse, Mr. Kelleher attended Onondaga Central Schools where he was a football player and captain of the wrestling team. He was house manager for his fraternity and active in IEEE and Newman Club. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. John J. Kelleher, and a sister, Lynn Marie Kelleher. Dr. Davidson, Union president from 1946 to 1964, was also president of the Association of American Colleges at the time of his death in 1965. An author as well as an educator, his books include \Poetry Its Appreciation and Enjoyment\ (with Louis Untermeyer) and \Colleges for Freedom\ (with Donald J. Cowling). During his tenure as president of Union, Davidson saw the enrollment rise from 800 to 1 ,200 students and the endowment increase fivefold. Schaffer Library, Memorial Field House, and four dormitories were constructed. Davidson was founder and first chairman of the Empire s'tate Foundation. of Liberal Arts Colleges, a co-operative fund-raising organization for independent colleges in New York State. Student Orchestra To Play In Memorial Chapel Tonight The Northeastern New York Student Orchestra and Brass Choir will present a concert tonight at 8:30p.m. .in Memorial Chapel. Robert Gosselink, chairman of the music department at SUNY -Agricultural and Technical Institute at Cobleskill, will conduct the Student Orchestra. Joining the young musicians for this performance will be the Union College Brass Choir, directed by Henry Carr. Carr heads the music department in the Colonie Central School System. The Brass Choir, composed entirely of Union College students, will open the program with \Sonata pian e forte\ Gabrieli; and \Suite Purcell. The Student Orchestra will play \Sinfonia No. 4 in D Major,\ J. C. Bach; \Roumanian Dances\ Bartok; and \Symphony No. 2\ Borodin. Edgar Curtis, professor of music and chairman of the Department of the Arts at Union, is artistic director of the Student Orchestra. The orchestra consists of students from 21 area high schools, Union College, and SUNY-Cobleskill. High schools represented are. Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake, Shaker, N is kayu na, Scotia-Glenville, Mohonasen, Colonie, Glens Falls, Linton, Cardinal McCloskey, Edgar Curtis Schalmont, Theodore Roosevelt, Wilber Lynch, Guilderland, Greenwich, East Greenbush, Shenendehowa, Lansingburg, Bethlehem, Hudson Falls, LaSalle Institute, and Johnstown. Gosselink, who also directs the Cobleskill College-Community Orchestra and the Union College Woodwind Quintet, is a native of Chicago. He was graduated from Central College, Pella, Iowa. He took an M.A. at the University of Chicago.

Full Text Of Parietal Rules The Presidensity ,, . . , The conditions governing residential life at Union College should: (l) Enhance, not interfere with, the academic objectives; (2) Respect the right of the individual to privacy, quiet, so I itude, and reasonable comfort; (3) Assure each person that what others may choose to do will in no way damage, injure, or take away the dignity of hlmself or any guest; ( 4) Recognize the interests of the community as a whole: (5) Provide for individual self-respect and individual responsibility within the community 1. Each living unit may be a 3/4 vote of the total membership establish a new system of hours for parietal privileges. If a 3/4 vote can not be obtained for a new system, the system existing as of 11/14/68 will remain in effect. All votes will be by secret ballot. II. A. At the request of any living unit member, a meeting will be convened within two (2) days by either the Resident Adviser or Fraternity President to discuss modification of the existing system. Any proposed change which increases the hours of an established system will require a 3/4 vote of the total membership of the living unit. Any proposed change which decreases the hours of a:t:1 existing system will require a simple majority of all members of the living unit. All changes adopted will be ifl effect for a minimum of fifteen (15) days. It shall be the duty of the elected student representative of the living unit to keep current regulations posted in a conspicuous place and to notify the Dean of Students' Office as well as the S e ere tary of the Student Government. III. Violations of any established rules or 'election procedures, as specified in I and II above, by iNdividuals or groups must be immediately referred to th$! suitable Judicial Body. IV. Any student, faculty member, or administrative officer of the Coll~ge may register a complaint about the general social conduct .of a livrng unit with the Dean of Students or the Liason Committee. The Dean or the Committee will deliver the complaint to the appropriate Judicial Body, whlch will investigate it to determine: 1) Whether the allegations are true, and [o t~c parents of ~olp1 Jatrirh 1§ellc4rr fuqn bieb on m4anhs giuing ~ ay anh to fricuhs at ;Hninn, Qlonrnrhien sis rxtenhs its sympat~y. Publlsn,.d Tuesday and Fnday dur- in& the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady. N,Y, Nationel Advert1stng Repre- aentativlll!: Nat-ional Educatlonal Advertismg Service. Inc .. College Pubhshers Represent·ati>·e, 360 LexJnRton Avenue, N. Y, C. Edlloual OHic.,, Old Gym. Union Colleg~. Public au on Office. White· hurst Printing & B1ndmg Co .. Inc .. 416·418 Fifth Ave .. Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscriptlon 20~ a copy; 51) a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Jeffrey C. Browne Editor-in·Chief William Ouzer Managing Editor Office Phones 377-8613 346-8614 Allen Gartner ... 346·8067 News Editor Paul Farnham- Associate Editor Alan Klein - Copy Editor D. Peter Drotman Editor-in-Chief Staff - Terry Pozefsky, Mike Crowley, Carl Dietz, Larry Friedman Harris Ginzburg, Ken Golden, Steve Heller, Steve Levy, Alan Mell, J~ Schwartz, Randy Sutter, Ken Wyre, Gary Yams Paul Andrews ... 393-7378 Features Editor Peter Weingold - Assistant Editor Alan Cohen - Assistant Editor Staff - Paul Markes, Steven Cole, Steve David, Danny Shocket Bill' Shapiro, Phll Robinson ' Leonard Simon ... 372-7227 Sports Editor Henry Fein - Associate Editor Staff - Gary Prevost, Michael ~eger, Walt Spencer, Stu Moss, Paul Forbes, Jay Blitzman, Bill Holleran Richard Kramer ... 377-2566 Photography Editor Staff - Dave Zapata, Mark Lichten:;tein, Jody Saslow, George Kaplan, Mark Boylan, Larry Friedman Richard Lewis ... 346-1932 Business Manager Michael Sirsky - National Advertising Manager Larry Roth blum- Subscription Manager Jerry Levine - Local Advertising Manager Jeff Birn - Local Advertising Manager 2) Whether they are related ' to the parietal hours established by the living unit. The Judicial Body may, if its findin.gs so wammt, require alteration of parietal hours and/or suspend some or all privileges of the unit. V. The All College Council or the equivalent highest legislative body of the college may review the operation of this system from time to time and retains the right to amend the same. VI. Unless vetoes by the President of the College, the proposed system will become effective at the inception of the Winter Term, January 6, 1969. Letters T·o The Editor Dear Sir: by Alan Cohen loyal to the ousted Johnson• , , It was not an original idea, Administration. The Joint Chiefs but stealing never stopped me refuse to order the carriers to I before. So, on Tuesday evening return home with the men., who 1 the fifth of November, 1968, I are still being shot at by the\ I declared the Presidential election Vietoamese who are still void and annou:t:~ced t!:tat I · unaware of the war's end. We ;i would be, for at least the next hope to soon be in contact with i' few months, the acting •President President Ho Chi Minh so the'' ' 'Of the United. States. Nothing firing can be ceased could stop me, for I knew my once-and-for-all. cause was just and Iwouldliketeemphasizeto' you~lmow-who was on my side. young. men that I have abolished Not wanting to leave C()llege, the Selective Service System. I moved the headquarters of the However, do not burn your draft chief executive from 1600 ca1d; you may still need it to be'' \\ P e n n s y 1 v a n i a Ave n u e , served at bars. If your draft Washington D.C. to 169 Nott board is ofle o.f those renegade Terrace, Schenectady, New ones which is stiUcaUingin boys), York . My newly-appointed and trying to make them join . · ' cabinet included several the army, you can walk right in weH-known Union College and tell them that the war is While tryrng to report U:t:1i0n College news for this newspaper receNtly, I have been most disturbed on several occasions at the lack of cooperation received from college officials who, in their refusal to cGmment oN issues about which Union students have a right to be informed, have created a sort of credibility gap of their own. kept mum. President Martin emphatically decli:t:~ed comment, refused to confirm any of several accounts of what had actually happened, and referred me to the Public Relations office for any statement. But News Director Dick Sine likewise had nothing to say, and a conversation with President Joseph Marsh of Concord College proved fruitless: any statement, he said, would have to come from President Martin. anarchists. over and that they are all flred. '• (\ Concordiensis, therefore, besides being sent unnecessarily on an expensive and futile scavenger hunt of t telephone calls, was forced to print a story whose contents were apparently true, but confirmation of which, college officials, for some reason, would not provide. One need look no further than this incident whe11. trying to explain such already-hackneyed phenomena as the generation gap, alienation, and the credibility gap. My first executive order, The Next item on my agenda early in the morning of will oe to e-nd poverty -- not aft l Wednesday, the sixth ·of easy task. It will take a : November, was to aBnounce the concerted effort throughout the'· · · ' end of the War; I ordered the country. But once the funds boys home from Viet:t:~am and flow in from the cutting of the Canada. Figuring that if I said Defense Department's budget,,, we had won the war, we would we'll begin and really work to have to give foreign aid for the have a great...I'd rather use next few decades, and figuiing another term, but it will be a that if I said we lost, I would great society. ''· · 1 upset aU those who cling to the I hope to hold new electio:t:~s claim that the United States has soon, for I do not really want to never lost a war, I called the war be ·President - I just felt that,! a tie. somebody had to declare the · Now, you may be skeptical of war over. So when you hear Phil my pretension to power, since Och's sing the new national the fighting continues. You see, anthem, joifl in, because, my •· most of the soldiers in the armed fellow Americans, the war is forces support me, but the over! The most recent example concerned a series of incidents at Concord College, Athens, W. Va., involving four Union students (Concordiensis, Vol. 98, No. 16, Nov. 22). Rumors of their situation, of Concord College's reaction, and of Union College's official reaction circulated across both campuses. WRUC had on tape an interview with one of the involved students, and I spoke personally with that student in West Virginia as well as with his troubled mother in New Jersey. College officials at both Union and Concord, however, Yours sincerely, Bruce H. Husten '71 officers who lead good lives (\Idiocy!\ you react? But earning high salaries and what greater idiocy could there''· '' ordering other around are still be than this war?) Can there be this kind of excitement in engineering? Try Xerox and see This console is part a computerized system tests on new products and components. * If you need more excitement, you might find It on the 42 golf courses In the Rochester area. A long beautiful drive .. _just the hint of a slice .... and almost on the green. Now, address the ball ... concentrate-and, wham! to a lie four feet from the cup. That's the excitement of the game that gets a golfer up at dawn on Saturdays.* We think it's analogous to the excitement that keeps some of our technical people on the job after hours: the pleasure of personal achievement in solving problems for which there are no book solutions. One of the concerns of our management is to see that our professional people experience this kind of excitement. They know where it can lead ... a payroll that numbered 3,000 i.n 1960, for example, now exceeds 24,000 ... products that have literally revolutionized communications and are having a world·wide impact on such problems as illiteracy, That's why we suggest that if you've been missing out on the kind of professional satisfaction you expected from an engineering career, look into what Xerox can provide in the way of engineering excitement. Your degree in Engineering or Science can qualify you for some intriguing openings in fun dam en tal and applied research, engineering, manufacturing and programming. See your Placement Director or write to Mr. Roger Vander Ploeg, Xerox Corporation, P.O. Box 251, WEbster, New York 14580, XEROX An Equal Opportunity Employer ( m/£) , . wi , ,, (; \' . • • Si:t:IC€ asked fc questior deal of tactic a right nc follows To c them: 1 decided support member results 1 third c approxi at the i: a very i be, you Agai single-st argume some c dubiou: AgaiRst some o before third -- justifial enough opport1 the qm also tn respom Had co-educ but th opinior the COl Union consenl two: (! now h~ two a1 everyth Bey' public ( Unit Educat. prof esse depths weeks 1 Thanks~ series o Collegt college 1 The· accordii study in] behavio politics, toward indigen< App~ and Pro the Ecc more o fields H Wh~ des cri experie1 poverty West V of epis the fut1 as Unio the co Biology -·- T~ PLAt'~ and N --

,, ' ' \ Johnson• · , nt Chiefs miers to nen, who : by the\ are still end. We 1tact with,, h so the ceased •hasize to,. abolished System. 'Ollr draft ditto be'' ,.. mr draft renegade 1g. in boys), hem join k right in !le war is : all ftred. '• 1y agenda --not an l take a : ghout the'' · · he funds ing of the ; budget,,, work to tther use will be a '1, ' elections ly want to felt that, lclare the 1 hear Phil national :ause, my '• te war is ~act? But mld there '' · \ ~ I s id IJi I • • Martin Defends Trustees' Deferral OJ Co-Ed Issue Since the meeting of Trustees three we.eks ago, in which they asked for further study of the complex problems surrounding the questiofl of co-education at Union, I have read and heard a go0d deal of comment to the .effect that \further study\ ,js a stalling tactic and that the Trustees have ali the information they need right now. Neither comment is accurate, and I sh.all try in what follows to explain why this course of action is necessary- To date, the Trustees have three pieces of evidenc;e before them: (1) the fact that some other single-sex co'lleges have decided t0 become co- educatiomal; ( 2) a faculty report, strongly supported by a \straw\ poll (not binding on the faculty, as members insisted that it not be) in favor of co-educatioll~-t3) the results of a wuestionBaire to students, answered by less than a third o,f the student body, in which the response was approximately three to one in favor of co-education. 1[[ yGu look at the issue from the point of view of men responsible for making a very important decision, whatever your owH predilect-ions may be, you will have to admit that this is less than sufficient. Three Reasons Against Against the first piece of evidence is the fact that some other single-sex colleges show no sigHs of going co-educational, and the argument that the reduction of options nationally fer students, some 0f whom clearly prefer a single-sex school, may be a dubious service to the whole educational system in this country. Against the second, there is nothing much except that at least some of the faculty themselves wanted to have fuller information before they committed themselves to a final vote. Against the third -- aJJd this is of special concem to me --is the apparently justifiable inference· that two-thirds of the students do not care enough one way or another to register any :preference, given an opportunity to do so. It is true that distribution and collection of the questionnaires was not carried out according to plan, but it is also true that repeated urging through Concordiensis fer a fuller response brought very little. Had the evidence from all three been definitely in favor of co-education, the Trustees would certainly have been impressed, but they would still have needed more than expressions of opinion. The paramount concern is not, as some would have it, the continuation of a tradition. After all, a good many other Union traditions have disappeared over the years with the clear consent of the Trustees. Quite simply, the real considerations are two: (I) retaining the academic strengths and reputat]on Union now has, and (2) facing the fiscal implications of a change. The two are inevitably related since money is what u11derwrites everything we do. Women's Impact Beyond question, Union's reputation now, for the general public and for those in a position to advise students about the choice of a college, rests. heavily on its remarkable performance in the sciences. That is not at all the same as saying that its real quality lies only in the sciences, for it does not, but it is nofletheless true that a very high proportion of those who choose Union in the fiist place are attracted to it because they know, or have heard of, its stromg science departments. Since women ir.tcline to shun the sciences and to interest themselves in the social sciences and the ·humanities, careful consideration must be given to the impact that re,placing men with women would have on its principal drawing power at present. It is true, .of course, that Union could fashion a new \image and to some ,extent that is already occttrring: over the past five years the enrollments in the social sciences have shown dramatic growth, not through any selection process in the admissions office but simply through what one must take to be a change in the cultural clima·te of the cGuHtry. The question on this score might be put in this way: does Union stand to gain or lose by travelling with this cultural change? To .travel with it means to become more like other colleges with whatever gain or loss that implies; to stand against it means to emphasize a strength which will undoubtedly prove attractive to many seek.i ng admission to college but will also turn others away. An alternative solution is to add women rather than replace men, that is, to plan for two thousand students in a few years instead of our present fifteen hundred and fifty, reaching a balance, let us say, of seven hundred women to thirteen hundred men, the latter number probably sufficient to keep our science departments as 'Strong as they are now, since one col:lld count on at least fifty of the women students to major in the sciences, perhaps even as many as a hundred. Money! The addition of students brings the fiscal problem into sharp focus. At present, we can count on about a million dollars of income from ·investments to suppor.t our program. Without substantial incvease in that income, the amount available per student will decline as numbers rise. That can only mean making up the difference from some other source, and the only visible source is tuition and gifts. Our tuition now is \competitive that is, about the same as that of other colleges in this part of the country. Our gift income, mainly from alumni is far better than respectable. Union is, in fact, one of very few colleges in the country to wh_ich more than half its living alumni make an annual contribution. So the financial consideration is no minor matter, even if one C()llsiders ()nly the operating budget. Beyond the operating budget lie th.e capital costs in1plicated both in expansion of size and in co-education. Although the Niemeyer committee made a rough estimate of capital costs connected wjth replacement of men by women (It was staggering enough!), we know that more careful study of that Comp. Ed. Class Home Early Union's Comprehensive Education 8 class and its professor returned from the depths of West Virginia three weeks prematurely in tin1e for Thanksgiving after an ironic series of mysteries at Concord College, Union's coordinate college there. They spent Fall term, according to the college bulletin, studying the \attitudes and behavior of leaders in business, politics, education and religion toward the problems of the indigenous poverty population.\ Apparently the four juniors and Professor William Bennett of the Economics Department got more of an education in these fields than they bargained for. What the participants described as a valuable experience in the study of \real poverty\ in McDowell County, West Virginia, ended in a series of episodes which jeopardized the future of Camp. Ed. as well as Union's federal grant to help the college in the areas of Biology and Computer studies. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats fr-om all over the world. 406 STATE ST. The episodes sent President Martin and Dean James Palmer, administrator of the grant, to make peace with Concord President Joseph Marsh two weeks ago. After a day of diplomacy, Dr. Martin and Dean Palmer returned to Union with Union's juniors not far behind. Neil Kramer, Ted Steingut, Floyd Weintraub and Tony Woods, described by professors as typical Union students, said they went to West Virginia to study poverty, n.ot \to instigate anything.\ Conservative as Union students may be by reputation, they wound up being denounced by the Bluefield Daily Telegram in what one student described a \scurilous and false editorial\ as radicals peddling obscene trash. What they peddled, against the advice of Professor Bennett, was mimeographed copies of Jerry Farber's article, \The Student as Nigger.\ The students distributed the article at Concord College, a campus which still has segregated Acme Barber Shop 509 Union S1reet Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students DEWITT'S Cateterta and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Bev.erage s 118 - 1 20 JAY STRfET -------------------------------------------------~ dormitories. The reprints were further distributed by an unknown source at Bluefield State College, 18 miles away, where subsequent damage to college buildings with racial overtones was blamed on Union in Bluefield's newspaper. T h e j u n io r s .de n i e d distributing .the article at Bluefield and said they had printed it for Concord, where one student said the administration there was an example of the type described by Farber. West Virginia's Board of Education in Cl!arleston received the article later and demanded that President Marsh explain what was gain~ on at Concord. President Marsh did not like it and called President Martin. President Martin immediately went to West Virginia to smooth over the irritation and show good faith. He and President Marsh agreed to s.end back the Union Comp. Ed. contingency. Concordiensis wishes to · correct an erwr in its reprint of the · fall final exam schedule: Wednesday, December 1 r at 9:00-11:00 A.M. l) French II (Basic French II) in HU 115- Prof. Raser, and 2) French 12 (Basic French III) Sec. 1 in PL 202- Prof. Roberts and Sec. 2 in PL 202- Mr. LeClerc. \BLOW IN ItER EAR AND SHE\Ll FOLLOW YOU ANYWHERE!\ ••• Ma1lle even to WILLARD MT • far a Friclar night's skiing at SPEC I' l RATES for college students Your th.et - $1.50 Hers • $1..00 li f.t starts at 7:00 Here is WHERE IT'S AT! WILlARD MT. N. ElSTON, N.Y. Tel. 518-692-7337 ZELLMER'S NORGE L.AUNDilY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VIUNKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DR¥ CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 Lb.------------ .25 4Lb.Min, ________ 1.00 20lb. ____________ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb.------------ .50 10 Min.----------- .10 OPEN- B A..M.. to 10 P, M. Mon. to Sat.-10 A.M. to 6 ·i\.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE N!;VER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED matter must be made, and it has been begun. Equally difficult to plan is the change that would be essential in the construction schedule already laid out. We should need to hurry along the College Center in order to provide dining-room space; and the Library extension; and th.e new gymnasium; and the expanded infirmary. Even though some have talked rather airily about having more students live off-campus, thereby eliminafing the need for an additional dormitory, the plain facf~ is that Schenectady cannot at present accommodate ~y more '· students in quarters they can afford to rent. The Trustees cannot responsibly admit students for whom there are no satisfactory living arrangements available either on-or off- campus. I mentior:~ed above the role that alumni play in supporting our annual operating budget. I might have noted at the same point that they are the ones who have over the years provided most of the endowment from which we draw that annual million dollars of income. No one with any practical sense, knowing that, would regard the opinion of alumni as a matter of indiffereflce. We are therefore polling alumni through a questionnaire that will appear in the next issue of Symposium. Their opinion will not be decisive any more than that of students or faculty is decisive, b.ut all will be carefully weighed along with the _studies now under way. Advantages I have said nothing to this point abowt the advantages of co-education. That they are considerable, I have as good reason to know as anyone since, in some thirty years of teaching and being an administrator, I have spent all but four of those years in co-educational situations. There can be no doubt that co-education produces somewhat less hectic (and expensive) social life, and some (though not all) believe that the presence of women students improves classroom discussion in the humanities and the social sciences, and therefore, the general tone of academic life in a college. On the other hand, it is patently clear that men and women in single-sex colleges have lived healthy and vigorous lives in the past and that graduates of single-sex colleges have historidally acquitted themselves fully as well in adult life as graduates of co-educational colleges. My intention here is not to make an argument but to show that the decision which the Trustees face is not one to be made casually. They are fully as much interested in the present and future health of Union College as any students or faculty members now a part of it, and I know that they will conduct their deliberations on this subject with care. What they need is time to do their job well. Harold C. Martin, President. Deliberation Continues The new Student Council Constitution will probably not go into effect untilthe Spring term said Sophomore Class President Bill Dawson. The Constitution was presented before Thanksgiving to the Council which spent 272 hours debating minor points and changing wording without touching on any controversial issues. Dawson expected that it will take at least three or four more Council meetings to debate and vote on the Constitution. Dawson said the Council \found quite a few things wrong with the Constitution\ and that it \was not ready to go to the student body.\ Once the Council finishes deliberation, the Constitution faces the question of whether it must be approved by the All College Council before a student vote can be held. At present no decision has been reached on this matter. Copies of the Constitution are in the hands of Council members but have not been circulated among students. Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 61 sl Year in Downtown Schenectady

Inter-Fraternity. Council Discusses Rushing Policy byPau!Andte'ws . around the functio!l of The stage was set for a possible revamping of the frosh rushing system last Monday during the final fall term meeting of the Inter-fraternity Council. The rushing system and the fraternity's responsibility to the college community came under lengthy discussion during the meeting, which was highlighted by the g1,1cst appearances of Prof. Michael Shinagel, Dean of Students Edward Malloy and Assistant Dean Richard Lucas. The discussion came in the wake of a report prepared by Lucas analyzing the IFC's presenL rushing system. The report lists strengths and weaknesses of the system and compares it to those of other colleges comparable to Union. Shinagcl led off the discussion by criticizing the rushing system from the DARI TREET RESTAURANT YOUR CHOICE CHAR-BROIL STEAK VEAL CUTLET CHICKEN •.. $ 1.65 2049 Van Vronken Ave. FR 7-4261 CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 Union St. FR 7~1283 Frames and lenses Replaced Prescriptions Filled ,......- VROOMAN'S Beer - Groceries Cold Cuts - Pastries !( Magazines 200 NOTT TERRACE FR 7-9834 Gershon's Sandwiches Cold Cuts Salads Open Tues. - Sun. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. Ph: EX 3-0617 1600 Union St. MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts done- by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 377-4010 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. standpoint of \an instructor· bad .enough ,~ith?ut frat~rnities lack of a \center of gravity\ on college. . . fraternities on campus. The who has witnessed .its effects on rushmg, too. Shmagel satd that campus. as .P~~tly ~ue to ~n a comment. wluch drew majority of IFC member~· freshmen in the classroom.\ classwork tends to taper off frat er mt y dw~s~o~s 111 the var:ted and lengthy ;esponse, conceded that fraternities have Shinagel said that rushing which among freshman as the date for campus. These dlVlsJOns are also Shmagel advocated mcreased bl\ 1 . t th . t 11 t 1 ' · · · ·r · 1 k d d 1 · · 11 II an o Iga 10n o e m e ec ua begins as early as two weeks fraternity btds approaches. m.am1est m t i\e wee en· exo us emp 1as1s mte ectua y among .d f ·l\fi d t·h ·t · · I II d f f t d f h · d· f t \t · I' dd\t · t t·l · SI e 0 campus 1 e, an · a after freshmen arnve on campws S h mage ca . e · or a o s u ents. rom t · e campus an ra erm tes. , n a· ·I Ion o 1eu . 1 ld b d . th f · · · h 1 k f 11 · 1 f t\ f t . 1 . h more s 1ou e one m .. a for the fall term is conducted reorgamzatwn of . rushmg t e a c o a co· ege socta unc ton, ra ern11es ave ·d· 1 . Th . . f ' b \ f · · \ · 1 · \t h · \d bl\ 1 . . t 11 t 11 t ·tree ton. · e opmton o some, ' 'psych 0 1 o g i c a 11 y and ecause even most ratermttes commum y spm , · e sat . an o 1ga IOn n1 e · ec ua y o ·I th t ·tt.. h \h h . . p. tl t. \Wht tl 11 1 \d H lowever, was a. HC intellectually at the worst are un appy wtt t·· e extstmg osmg. 1e ques 1011, · a 1e co ege, 1e saJ.. e gave .f t .t , f· t: . 1 . 1 k U · d\f'\ f 1 f f · . . . ra erm y s unc ton was so e y time.\ system.\ rna es !HOH ·1 1erent rom examp es o a ratermty mvttmg . 1 \ \Freshmen don't have time Shinagel also touched upon Amherst, Williams or Colgate?\ a professor to lunch or socDta · ·M· d· I·FC p 'd t · · I I II d \ · I Sl · l ·t d th · d t · d · · . . d an ea , rest en , to get acchmated to thetr new w 1 at 1 e ca e. so eta unage CI e e nee o spo11sonng tscusston groups an 8 t d th t th . d\ .d 1 · , · \d f\ I· , · ff k ugges e · · a · e m . wt . ua environment,\ Shinagel said, fragme~~atJon caused by 16 .·~ me w mt we are to g~ve o -campus ~pea ~rs. . . h.ou se presidents pose the-•. \The pressures to succeed fratermttes on a campus of Unmm students a sense of pnde The dtscussmn followmg q e 1 . ,.. d\ . . . th· . , · · d \d t\f\ · \th 1 ~.. Sh · 1 , k d u s ton tor Iscussion m eJF academically and socially are Unions stze. He pomted to the an 1 en 1 tcatiOn WI · 1•1e mage s remar s cent ere houses. Howtofin.d the one beer to have when you're having more than one. Cut out arrow. Place pin through center of arrow and through center of circle. Spin arrow. It will come to rest at the one beer to have when you're having more than one. (Hint: It's the best-selling beer in the East.) .. ·. by tht Lesson 1 -- This is you See how pr • See how it Your badg power and Ha. Ha. It has your it. You shoul , badge. The pu:b identifies y So keep it \ please. I ') Always ta1 chance y0u on it. Like blood. Lesson 2 -- .., Fouget thos This is y< power and • Feel the he ' It feels H doesn't it? See the lonJ , See the ejaculates, l Please refra . fingers over '. in public. I, '' Lesson 3 ··' This is your It is big an strong. l i . 1} ~ ~· ! i 1, ; (see comme ,, J · It has lead i It is caJ anything m: I do not 1 ~ ' \more. Lesson 4 -·, \ • . This is your lt is USI incapacitate It is comple -; . Go Its effects results. [

Policeman's Primer: Cops Cope BLITHER of The have that in thaf of some, at the solely,, resident, the-•. in theiF by the Marquis de Da'ley Lesson 1 --your badge This is your badge. See how pretty? See how it shines? Your badge is your symbol of power and authority. Ha. Ha. It has your name and number on it. You should be proud of your , badge. The pu:blic respects and identifies you by y.our badge. Please do not laugh. This is serious, youse guys. I have never actually seen anyone go permanently blind or suffer lung damage from Mace. Have you? Ahem. Lesson 5 - your pay I will be the first to admit that a policeman's pay is not enough. At least, what he gets in his pay-envelope is not enough. So keep it as clean as you can, ·• '\ please. I· But you must admit there are other benefits to being a patrolman. Like the people you get to meet. Gamblers, prostitutes, pushers, liquor store owners, auto , Md. l Always take it off if there is a I, I \) chance y<m might get something on it. Like blood. Lesson 2 --your gun .. , Fouget those lies in lesson 1. This is your real symbol of power and authority. Feel the heft of it in your hand. ' It feels .like a part of you, doesn't it? See the long, round bar~el . See the powerful bullets it ejaculates, I mean, fires. Please refrain from running your . fingers over it lovingly · ·. in public. I, i i Lesson 3 ·· your billy stick ,, l .· This is your billy stick. t·: It is big and long and hard and 1,1 strong. ; (see comments in lesson 2) .,, j , · It has lead inside. ; ; It is capable of smashing anything made by man. I do not think I need to say ~ ' \more. 1 Lesson 4 -· your can of mace \ : · . This is your can of Mace. It is used to temporarily incapacitate the enemy. t . It is completely harmless. -; I . Go Its effects wear off with no ill results. dealers. Benefit, benefit, benefit. ·Lesson 6 ·- the public The public is often regarded worngly by some policemen. We hope you are not one of \those\ kind. If you are, you will soon be I.R.C • Prof. Klaus H. Pringheim of McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, will speak to the International Relations Club tonight on \The Red Guard and the Cultural Revolution.\ Prof. Pringheim is noted for his willingness to speak out and -J to make predictions and · projections about events on the Chinese Mainland. Events in China are usually regarded as somewhat mysterious. Prof. Pringheim studied in Japan prior to World War H. After the war he was a professor at the United States Army Language School. He later received his M.A. from the University of California. The speecl1 will be followed by a reception in the Hale House Lounge. Hand-Loomed Donegal T\Weed Sport Coating From Ireland ~ In Donegal, Ireland, they pamper ~\\'-~.;.......__-: \ their sheep and hand-loom their , precious virgin wool in thatched ~;- cottages. These gentle, unhurried , ~· customs are reflected in this .,-~ hand-loomed Donegal jacket §!tf t In mellow mist colorings. $60. ;if Deansgatel> \ ,. Dati's Men's Shop 1599 IJFPER UNIO~ STREET either fired or. changed. Maybe both. It has been a long and frustrating battle, but we are finally educating our police to their proper role in, and relation to, the rest of the community. They are the enemy. We are the masters. Lesson 7 -- the hippie This is an especially dangerous type o'f the enem.y. He is any male with long hair and/ or a beard, or any female with a short skirt. Or anybody with a McCarthy button. He advocates philosophies which - if left unchecked - could errode and overthrow our society. Disgusting, despicable, obscene things like love and peace and sex and brotherhood and understanding. Kill. Lesson 8 -·your patrol cat· 1Jhis is a patrol car. You will be promoted to one someday. It has two million horsepower. It can go three hundred miles an hour. (Don't worry -- it has an au tom at k transmission. We know you're not coordinated enough to operate a clutch.) Ptess down the accelerator. Feel how fast! Wasn't that fun? You can do that whenever you want. You think your buddies are gonna give you a ticket? In the hands of an immature, incompetent person, a car like this would be very dangerous. But you need it to catch those crazy hot-rod'ders. Someday, we may even make teaching you how to drive faster than 60 mph a part of the policeman's training course. ' Peace and Freedom will hold its second organizational meeting Wednesday December 4, at 8 'P.M. in SS 014. One of the questiot:~s up for discussion will be if the party should become an official dub activity or be independent of the college . structure. Applications for Assistant Chairman of Freshman Orientation are now available in Dean Malloy's office. All sophomores, regardless of previous orientation experience, evening at 7:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The concert is open to Union College students. The Intercollegiate Dialogue is sponsoring a food, clothing~ and toy drive for the holiclay season. Contributions will be distributed through Providence House to residents of the Southend of Albany. Living units, faculty members, and anyone else from the college community are asked to bring their gifts to th~ collection box at the library. are eligible to apply . ...--·---------..,. Applications must be turned in to the Dean's office by Friday, January 17. The Union College Glee Club, Madrigal Singers, and The Skidmore College Madrigal Singers will present \An Hour of Holiday Choral Music\ Friday (,ampus Chest The annt~al Campus Chest • Fund Drive will be conducted· during registration for the Winter Term. The Campus Religious Council will lilave a representative in the field· house on all three days of registration. T; ec 1 s iol') .S/ ])f!'c is · · lol?s I • ·.·-l14+. .... ~.,.- some decisions are relativelY unimoortanl. Where rou oul your engineering talent to work is nol. As you contemplate. on'e -of the most important decisions of your life, we invite you to consider a c~reer at Pratt& Wh1tney Aircraft. Here, you will find wide-open opportunities for professional growth With a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dynamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. We_~~lect our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and fac1l1t1es only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. ~ncourage them to push into fields that have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a l1ttle bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. And your decision is made easier, thanks to the. wide range oftalents required .. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY' • METALLURGY • MATERIALS SCIENCE • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCIENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS. Consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. ' Pratt & Whitney Rircraft EAST HAitTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA u DIVISION OF UNITED RFMFT CORPORATION An £q111l Opportunlly Employor

\Doubtless The Quietes·t Of The Quiet Revolutions ... \ DOZING IN SCHAFFER'S MEZZANINE More hours than new parietals. To Grind, Book It, Throat: -\A Treatise On Studying by BILLOUZER What is it so elusive even Pean Martin Lichterman can't find words for it? So otherworldly even the Garnet staff can't comprehend it? . Yet so simple in nature even Dick Sine can write about it and President Martin can ackNowledge it without consulting the trustees? AU the same so unbearable aone of the alumni remember it and so vapid Wilfred Ketz can afford to ifnore it? .. : . ,. ···s ·>' •• •·• ••• : ' ' What is it that can take up more hours than new parietals, is beyond the capacity of the ACC to poll and Rusty Manker to revise? The answer is study. Hel'e at Union it is dowbtless the quietest of the quiet revolutions. Despite radicals ! whimpers to the contrary it is the most underground of t. · · · · movements. Almost unnoticed it stretches from the Irving '' Olds Study Desk on the .mezzanine of the library to th.e darkest smoke-filled rooms in Davidson. Study is a habit. In that regard it shares none of the mystique of drugs, the virile satisfaction of smoking nor the pepularity of the true universal donor Budweiser. Few are addicted to it, doses a11e tnoderate and although we have college committees to examine almost everything else no one cares to examine study - perhaps that along with Co-ed and the second coming will have to wait for the new Student Center. Study is a library journal at the Binders. Study is one book on reserve for a class of 50. Study is discovering the hoek you have to read fOl' French has not been translated. Study is discovering that a rush order from the bookstore takes six weeks. Study is comething your roomate can't do without the radio on. Study is something the Trustees do at long range. Study, then, is something to look into. photos by richard kramer AN ENDLESS ROW OF CARRELS Few addicted to it; doses are moderate . ,, ·~ Winter t at 8:30p.m 6th. Stude distributed prior to th1 Students v. 1 copy of th' be able to Field How A.M. on til Formal payment o wHl take House on and Thursc 9, from 8:< from 1:001 should rcpt Last Name A C 1 D-G 1 H-K ' L- N ' 0- Sh 1 Si ~- Z Student other than interfere. 5 PI SMI 262 MAYFAIR At the Sig TUES. thru THURS. sc Phc --- CE ATLA Fine s Guara 711 NOl ~ JAY Cut On Dotted line... 1 Never Too late by Rosenberg l';j SPECIAL c Brir Free She\\ Fore T

'' ,, ,~. Shades of Winter Term Winter term classes will begin at 8:30p.m. on Monday January 6th. Student schedules will be distributed to college addreses prior to the beginning .of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Field House beginning at 8:00 A.M. on the first day of classes. Formal registration and payment of winter term charges wHI take .place in the Field House on Tuesday, WedBesday and Thursday, Ja•nuary 7, 8 and 9, from 8:45 to 11 :30 A.M. atld from 1:00 to 3:30p.m. Students should report as follows: Last N arne Report A C Tuesday morning D - G Tuesday Afternoon H- K Wednesday morning L - N Wednesday Afternoon 0 - Sh Thursday morning Si ~- Z Thursday Afternoon Students may report at a time other than above should classes interfere. Students who have schedule pn>grams will have a flotation :a.Nached to their class schedule, ,and they should report to the iRcgi~>tmr at the Field House a. f:t er seeing their adviser. Adj-ustments and changes in sCilcdulcs will be made at the Field House Monday through Fr.ida.y, January 6- 10 from 8:45 a.m .. to 3:30p.m., except for the •noon hour. Friday, January 10 is the :last day for making scheG.ule 11dj ustments. Facsimile is reluctant to term.inate its First Annual Poetry Contest, but guess what all good things must come to? All entries for the contest are due at tl1e Concordy ma.ilbox by December 14. Each poem will be j udgecl by the crack poetry j ud~ ing team consisting of selected mernbe rs of the C()nc:ordy Editorial and Feature Staffs. Vintrh·J Men's Shop Specialists in Coli eg1a te Wear 514 State Street at Lafayette The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 CERCONE'S ATLANTIC STATION Finest Gasolme In Schenectady Guaranteed Service Park & Shop Free Parking FIRST TERM BILLS A.RE DUE FOR '11tt~tht lfttrkitimes MA..KE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: Neal J. Gordon 306 West College• RA. TES: $ 5.50 Weekdays $ 5.50 Sundays $10.50 7 Days A..LL BILLS ARE DUE NOW GEN. BREW. CO .• ROCH., N .. Y. UNITED FUND The faculty and staff at Union College have coHtributed $'8;&36.84 to the recent United Fm1d campaign, for 140 per cent of the college's goal. In a letter t l!anking the faculty aNd staff, Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the college, congmtulated the 226 persons who contributed. Last year, the a~nount mised at Union was $5,882, from 164 persons. \·Your concern for the community and the needs 0fthe 31 agencies in the United Fund is deeply appreciated by all ti'HJse associated with this work,\ Dr. Martin's letter said. SIGMA XI Dr. Sydney Archer, associate director of research for the Sterling-Winthrop Research Institute at Rensselaer, will be the featured speaker tonight at 8 p.m. in SS 016 at the annual fall dinner meeting of the Union College chapter of the Society of Sigma Xi. Dr. Archer's address is entitled \Recent Devel<Jpments in the Chemotherapy of Schistosomiasis.\ He received the American Chemical Society Award in Medicinal Chemistry this past June for his contributions in the synthesis of pain relieving drugs, traJlquilizers, and compounds for the treatment of tropical diseases. SWIM by STU MOSS Union's varsity swimming t cam is rounding into shape for the start of its 9-meet season, starting against Norwich on Jan. 1:8 _ Led by co-captains Steve VJerJ.in and Kevin Hob>en and last y•e ar' s undefeated freshmen team, the squad will be looking to improve on last season's 5-3-1 rcc:ord. Wedin, a senior, had the distinction of going to the NCAA championships last year. He is presently the New York State record holder in the 100 and 200 yard butterfly events. However, it will be the sephomores that will form the :JJudeus of the team. Burt \Yankiver is the most versatile member as he can swim the individual medley and any :freestyle distance from 200 to ]()00 yards. Bob Szatrowski broke Wedin's freshman IJu t.terfly record last year and it is hoped that he will be able to eventually replace Steve. John Horwath is the best I:Jreaststrokeer in the school in the last ·five years. ln the diving are a , Harvey R ieluno nd, a consistent scorer, is returning. Another sophomore, Mike ~orne, was second in the state last year in the I and 3 meter EJ()ard events. Coach Robert Benson feels that this is his strongest team in four years. FUN WORKIN·G IN EUROPE GUARANTEED JOBS ARROAD! Get paid, travel, meet people. Summer and year round jobs for :YOung people 17 to 40. For illus· tr a ted literature with complete ·details on programs offered and how to apply, write; ISTC, Admissions, 866 U.N. Plaza, N. Y., N.Y. 10017. ~ 711NOTTST. ... 377-9866 JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATSS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In ~ear INTRODUCING A beau.tifuJj)in with a birthstone for each member of the family. She will cherish it forever. For~nly $12•50 TIME CENTER JEWELERS . •t• . I . .. a httle more exc1 1ng. - Frosh Cagers Open Tomorrow With Hartford; Tedisco Stars by HANK LEVINE \Defense is the key,\ Coach Brown claims as his freshmen hoopsters look to a fine 15 game season, which gets underway Wednesday night in a 6:15 p.m. home game against Hartford. The freshman Garnet team is spearheaded by 5 foot 8 inch guard Jim Tedisco. Coach Brown describes Tedisco as a ballplayer that \no one can stop one-on-one.\ The other probable starters are: Rich Goldberg, a 6 foot 5 inch center, Rich Davis ( 6 feet 1 inch) and Howie DeLuca (6 feet) at the forward spots. These five players are ·Hoopsters--- (Continued from page 8) be rated at least as good as Hope if not better. Chris Schmid has not given up on this year's hoopsters and feels that there are reasons to be optimistic. In pre-season scrimmages the Garnet have been running and shooting better than last year's squad. The early part of the season is softer for the Garnet giving several of the injured hoopsters a chance to round into form for the tough post-Christmas schedule. The Garnet must be a road club this year because most of the tougltest opponents (Amherst, Rochester, Wesleyan) will be in Schenectady. Perfect symbol complimented by a strong bench made up of: Gary DeLuca, Larry Kenny, Bob Pezzano, Rich Matthews, Joel Roslyn, Mike Farrell, Mike Phillippo, and Mark Lenk. Because of its lack of height, the ball club looks to do a great deal of running, employing the fast break and a man-to-man defense. Brown Pleased The team has already played three sc rim.mages, aga.imt Albany Business College, Cobleskill Junior College, and Albany State. Coach Brown has been pleased with the offensive work and hopes that the defense will come around soon. Injuries and the flu bug could dull the hopes for the Garnet. Rich Matthews, the team's biggest ballplayer at 6 feet 5' inches, is sidelined with a shoulder injury, Howie DeLuca and Tedisco are nursing mild cases of the flu. Summing up the team's outlook for the '68- '69 season, Coach Brown emphasizes the \'need for an aggressive defense.\ He also noted that \a team with good size will give us trouble.\ But he added, .. we should have a winning season.\ ,, .. v , . ::. .. \\ ~ \>'· \ .I\ !-'·-:-:---.·:;~ -~ .I .. J of the love you share Being with each other, doing things together . . . knowing that your affection is growing into precious and enduring love. Happi1y, all these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake, is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler will assist you in making your selection ... He's in the yellow pages, under \Jewelers.\ ~PsEake® DIAMOND RINGS LEE CROWN Rings from $100 to $10.000. Illustrations enlarged to show beauty of detail.® Trade-mark reg. A. H. Pond Company, Inc., Est. 1892. ROYALTY ----------------------------~ I HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I 1 Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- I 1 ment and Wedding\ and new 12-page full color folder, both for 1 1 only 25c. Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-page Bride's Book. 1 I F\· 6 a I I Name I ~~~ I I I I City I 1 a~e ~p I I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N. Y. 13201 J L----------------------------

Concordy Sports Weakened Hoopsters Open Tonight by GARY PREVOST Chris Schmid is a basical.ly optimistic rerson, but the recent successio11 ()f events affecting the Garnet hoopsters make it difllcult for him to be hopeful about the coming season. The slate opens tonight as the Dutchmen travel tu Binghamton to play llarpur College. The 1968-69 hume season begins tomorrow when the Dutdtmen face t!tc Ur1iversit) of Hartford followiHg a 6: 15 fru::.lt opener. Weakened Squad The Garnet enter tonight's encounter with the Colonials with just nine sound ballplayers. A succession of extraun.linary events have led the Garnet to such a ncar-hopeless situation. The first blow to hit this year's squad occurred on October 5 on Alexander Field, wlten one of last year·s starting guards, Craig Carlson, was put out for the season with a dislocated knee. is to be successful. The starting guards will be senior co-captain Warren Mumford and sophomore Dave Shames. Both men are reasonably good outside shooters, providing more talent in ~t-hat department than most recent Garnet backcourt duos. Last year, the last of outside shooting may have been the biggest reason for the poor 8-12 showing. However, Shames and !'v1umford arc only adequate ball handlers, making the Dutchmen susceptible to a pressing opposing defense. Jeff Kirkpatrick, shifted from the guard spot, and co-captain Bill Neidel will start up front. Kirkpatrick improved last year as a sophomore guard, being the best defensive ballplayer on the squad, but the loss of Feldman forced Schmid to move Kirkpatrick to the front court. At just 6'0\ Jeff will have difficulty oft the boards but will add to the Dutchmen's scoring punch. 6-5 Senior Neidcl is a fine outside shooter who led the Garnet in scoring last year despite missing six games with a broken collar bone. Bill averaged 13.3 points per game but he was not a strong rebounder or defensive player, placing fourth in rebounds. Bill Boehmke, a 6-6 junior will start at center. Boehmke has been improving steadily since recovering from a bad knee injury last season. Key reserves are Rich Heiden at center and Jim Getman at forward. Because it is earlv in the season the rating of· opposing teams is difficult, but none of this week's opponents shape up to be a pushover. Harpur (ullcge (SUNY Binghamton) will field almost exactly the same team that the Garnet defeated 62-61 in the Fieldhouse last year. Only 5-7 star Larry Gaincn, who was held to five points by Craig Carlson in last year's game, has graduated. Returning is 6-0 guard Tum Gomulka, who was averaging 22 points a game before becoming academically ineligible last season. Other starters are 5-10 senior Jay Noble, 6-2 forward Mark Saperstein, 6-3 forward Jerry Hirsch, and 6-3 center Frank Goodrich. The Garnet beat the Colonials off the boards last year but will have more trouble this year. The bus trip to Binghamton is also rough as tile Garnet's '66-67 season was turned around by a 58-53 loss at Harpur. The University of Hartford provides a formidable home-opening opponent. The Hawks fell 81-7+ to a good Brooklyn CoiTege team in their _ opener Satun.lay :but will come to Schenectady with most of the same team that drubbed the Garnet 9+- n in Hartford last season. A p1cssing ball dub, which will give the Garnet backcourt many problems, is led by 6-5 center Ken Gwozdz who set a sehoul rebound record against the Dutchmen last year. Hawks Scme Often Generally a strong offensive club the Hawks go with guards Howie Busse (6-3) and Larry Franciose (5-1 0). Busse scored 29 points in last year's game. 6-2 Dave Brunelle and 6-4 Jim Coady, both good shooters, will probably start in the front court. Saturday's opponent Norwich will be going with a new coach, and for the first time in four years the Garnet will not be plagued by Paul St ukowski. The nashy guard scored 100 points in three games against the Garnet. The !lll)llth of !\iovember brought second-year coach Schmid e!lough problems to semi a lesser man to a rest home. Sop homo rc Barry Fitt.gcrald, second leading freshman scorer last year and Schmid's \most promising newcomer,\ was forced tu leave the team for personal reasons. Rit Gallucci came to the squad after football season and wrenched his back in the first practice. Rit has recovered fairly well. but his lack of practice has hindered his ability to provide the Garnet with mucl1-needed rebounding strength. Ten On AII.S-tars Foil owing the Norwich encounter the Dutchmen travel to Drew University and Upsala College on December 17 and 18. Both teams are within reach of this year's weakened squad. Katzman in Ellis Junior Barry Katzman moved into a starting guard position only to spend this week in Ellis Hospital. The ball-handler deluxe is suffering from a badly infected leg and a high fever. The biggest blow, however, came when senior Cliff Feldman left the team. Although he did not have an uutstanding junior year, Feldman was expected to provide much of the Dutchmen's rebounding while also improving as a scorer. After such a group of departures, Coach Schmid is left with a starting five that is really going to have to play beyond its past performances if the season The Garnet gridders have capped an outstanding 7-1 season by having ten of their members named to the ICAC All-Star squad. Included on the team is the entire Dutchmen backfield: junior quarterback Ken Pearce and sophomore running backs Jerry Ostrander and Larry Sykes. Also named to the stellar team from the offense are Rich Swan, the only Garnet also named to the 1967 squad, and guard Doug Mele. Paul Stamback of Hobart was the only member of the All-Star defensive front wall not from Union. Defensive ends John Burton and Kevin Monahan and tackle Tum Oberst represent the Garnet, along with lineback and punter Ron McAvoy and Seniors and Graduate Students Career hunt with 90 of the finest companies having operations located in the New Jersey I New York metropolitan area. On December 26-27 at the Marriott Motor Hotel,. intersection of Garden State Parkway and Route 80, Saddle Brook, New Jersey. For more details, including a listing of spon- soring companies, see your college placement director or write to the non-profit sponsor of the second annual \Career-In\: Industrial Relations Association of Bergen County, P. 0. Box 533, Saddle Brook, New Jersey 07662. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar halfback Steve Ciesinski. Hobart workhorse Mark Perkins, who gained 1111 yards in 309 carries, was named IC AC Most Valuable Player. The Statesman running back holds the NCAA small-college record for carries in one season, as USC superstar O.J. Simpson broke Perkins' mark against UCLA to take the major-college record. Simpson's record, however, took one more than the eight contests in which Perkins appeared. On December 27 and 28 the Dutchmen will compete in the Hope Holiday Tournament in Holland, Michigan. In addition to Hope, the field is comprised of Ohio Wesleyan and Wabash. The Garnet should be generally outclassed by the field. In last year's tourney at Union the Garnet played a good game against Hope and lost 70-5 8. Ohio Wesleyan and Wabash can (Continued on page 7) WELCOME AGAIN 2 or more SHIRTS • • • • • 2~ ea. PANTS • • 49c SUITS • • 98c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank NEWEST LU~CH 71. 5 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Student$ Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921 I Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.-Sat. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.·l A.M. ~For three Generations.' Those Who Know ... Have been .. ecommencfing - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'P 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY SIMON SEZ by LEN SIMON On the basis of the strong likelihood of a poor basketball' season this year at Union, many fans may blame the players, the coach, the schedule, the rccruHing, or even the Fieldhouse. However much of this blame wi'll be unfair and unwarranted,.,, since the' greatest negative factor wlated to Unio~ bas~e_tbaU. is the combination .of injuries, apathy, and academ1c dJfflcultJes which force the disappearance of a majority of those who are expected to contribute greatly to the eager hopes. 1 The varsity squad of I 968-69 is comprised of veterans of three freshman teams with a combined won-lost record of 29-12. Go11e from the 12-2 team oft hree years ago are starters Rein Eichinger, (out of school), Joe James (not interested), and Cliff Feldman (starter two weeks ago--now off squad), and Jim Wilson, who didn't make the team last season. VOL 98, Co~ De A Cm •the Unio $100,00( received 1967. The s '70 HOOP DISAPPEARS died of Among the missing from ~he 12-3 frosh of two years ago are ; needing Bob Wiley (far out of shape), Pete Garrison (illness of a , complete permanent nature), Roger Harrison (out of sc_hool), ~raig ~a_rlsun , j (football injury), Ed Buzak (off team), and .I 1m Jennmgs (InJured . ~~~~r~:e before frosh season, and presently out of school). Last year's frosh posted only a 5-7 mark, but again key i major, tt operatives are not around. Bob Berger did not go out for the 1 \'· deg~~~ab~ varsity, while Barry Fitzgerald dropped_ o:f the team for personal Tracy III reasons. Others of lesser note are also m1ssmg. _ 1.· Ellswortt Even among those who are members of the team, all IS not . 1 1 f I I announce right. Senior Warren Mumford, the only starting survivor o t 1e , ' Martin. .12-2 squad has spent much time on the bench in the past two 1 · naming , seasons, and his ball handling skills need sharpening. Juniors still i. Social around are Jim Getman, Barry Katzman and Jeff Kirkpatrick.' 1· Ellswortl': Katzman is out with an injury, while Kirkpatrick is playing I historical somewhat out of position as a forward, as a result of other I the roon personnel losses. Bill Boehmke was not a likely frosh starter when I· injured, and Rich Heiden saw almost no action, but they are now '! ·-meeting I the only two centers Coach Chris Schmid has. 1 fac~l?TJ GALUCCIHURT > and his 1 memorial boy's col happiest· Of last year's frosh, the only late casualty is Rit Galucci, who is presently nursing a wrenched back. Dale. Long was not a standout last season, but has been pushed into a role of responsibility due to the circumstances. Hence one can easily see that the promise of two excellent freshman teams will not be fulfilled. Realistic appraisals make the Garnet hoopsters a poor bet to break .even. If anyone has a solution for this strange problem, it would be greatly appreciated ) by the coach, players, and fans. Pa :.:'1 ~tl ·-----------------------------------------------~ Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely Flow. , A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 J ~==~~~~~~~~ The E ~ill mee proposal accordinJ Martin. another with pari 016. Thee will mee1 college-w direct st Board of © BLAZER OF GLORY That most excellent leisure jacket, the blazer, abounds in a choice of shapes and fabrics. We show a slender sam- pling-the Propr.ietor has a goodly num- ber in addition to suggest. by St.anley Blacker W4r $6o.oo ~q~!r£Ta!h!!P Open Thurs. 'til 9 I UIC ·~ For I Ove 1 John Blank fo Inter- re election. , I Blank his post junior Ph b Judicial I Since All-Colle • -a sophor obsolete governm' ., 'II Propo Nith the mtil a : ·1 ,,;l10uld b :he inder Brow1 •J 1roposal he Trus vas suffi l •J Stress ~ouncil ~valuatic ~'t.t ' all aspec tails,\ B lOt pre1 Jormito1

