dar . ~) 28-; 1969 - ., defense \A Causa Persa Parole . Assai\ VOL. 98, NO. 33 «: Foundecl at (Jnion College SCHENECTADY, N.Y., IViAROH·4, 1!169 18?7 Thursday: 100 Days To Graduatio·n PRICE TWENTY CEN'I!~ Ghanaian :D:ip·.lomat Siena's \ · Constitution Vice-Presidency Goes To, Kes:s~ler Pushes One Africa As of early this morning :the pt'o posed 'Student Body C()nstitution with its provision for a reJJ'resenta.t:ive Student Senate apiJeared headed for victory hy a substantial rn~rgin. Altho11g1I a Council resolution blocked di!;d0s11re of partial returns leaders of the drive .for ratification seemed coiJfident and optimistic when asked ab\'ut the 011tcome. l:Tnion press, prove(!, numerous Pezzano converted baskets t<:J 1 • Emil Adzima, Information Officer of the Consulate of Ghana in New York, told an Intemational Relations Club audience here last night that he hopes that the member-states of the Drganization of African Unity will eventuaHy \attain political unity.\ lead at ., was all never lead. Wiili Ricb after a , o gi:Ve the 59-4 7. left' as they to twenty, • ark, Coach his regulars by 'fans to mark. Joel) point to , 00-78 lead. twenty -five) ended by a score the tap with 28 d hit 15, H. k Davis 12. victory' a 9-7 The body is now a loose organization of all the states on the 9\ftican continent, excluding South Africa and Rhodesia. African unity and \assisting our [?rothers to attain independence\ have been the two principal points of Ghana's foreign policy since it achieved independence, e Adzima stated that African 1mity is necessary he cause some of the African countries are two small to be viable ~tates. ( Togo Too Small He used as an example the Republic of Togo on Ghana's border. Togo was f. French colony formed from that portion of the p>e-World War I German colony of Togoland that F ranee received in 1919. It is now an fudependent republic. The portion Britain received in 1919 is now part of Ghana. • The Ghanaian further explained that linguistic differences stand in the way of African unity. There are five main native languages in Ghana, and as {,1 other former British colonies English is the major official language. In the East African countries Swahili is the major language. The former 1 · ~rench colonies use French as their major language. Too French t Adzima stated that some of the French-speaking countries are too ; economically dependent on France. · He said that it is easier to fly to Paris l'rom the capitals of some of these r countries than to the capitals of the neighboring African countries. Also, selfish politicians in some of ~he African countries stand in the way of unity, according to Adzima. Three areas were described as \still ~nder colonial rule.\ They were South Africa, Southern Rhodesia, and the Portugese colonies. One Country The speakers conceded that South Africa is an independent country, but said that most Black African countries do not reco_gtlizeSouth Africa because of its policy,()£ apartheid. He said ·that all South Africans \should live as citizens of one country.\ Now, he said the \white population is,supressing the black majority.\ Ghana is attemr ting to persuade South Africa to change its policy on {Continued on page 2) Official tabulation took place today and if the vote goes .as expected ratification will be aniJounced this evening. By ALAN MELL Donald Kessler, '71, was el'ected Vice-President of the Student Council last nig,tt, defeating Ed Rundell', '71, Secretary of the Council. The election was held at possibly last SC meeting, if the results of the living unit poll on the prqposed constitution are favorable. In that case, elections to select the metnbers of the first Student Senate will be held Commencement To .Hear Goodell By ~RUCE H. HUSTEN N.Y. Sen:.. Charles Ellsworth Goodell, app<Jinted successor to the late Rober.t F. Kennedy in 1968, will be main speaker at the 174th commencemeEt exercises of Union on Saturday, June 14. Sen. GoCJcleU will also serve as Honorary Cha11cellor of the college for the commencement weekend. Graduation exercises this year will be held, weather permitting, at the grounds in front of the Schaefer Library, d&ject of last spring's landscaping project sponsored by the Parents' Association of the college. Ch~utge of Tradition The Saturday date for commencement is also a variation Mountebanks The Mou:11tebanks presentation of the ''Caretaker\ by Harold Pinter conti11ues this Friday and Saturday in Nott Memorials. Tickets for these concluding performances-may be secured at the Nott Memorial Ticket Office any time this \'eek. The Mountebanks will hold a ~reception in Phi Gamma Delta following the final performance_ The production stars Jeff DeMu.nn, Dean Hoffman and Bruce Shacldeton_ from the traditional Sunday graduation ceremonies of the past. G<Jodell, a native of Jamestown, N.Y., is a 1948 Cum Laude graduate of Williams College. He received his law degree from Yale University in 1951 and the following year a masters degree from the Yale Graduate School SENATOR GOODELL: 's Juni.ot Senator Charles Goodell -who will lle commencement speaker. · of G-overnment, during which time he received a Ford Foundation faculty scholarship. Kennedy Senate seat with ·the observation that the new senator and his predecessor had a fair am~>Un t in common. Shortly after his appointment .on Sept. 10, 1968, Goodell infuriated Republicans by saying Richard l'lb:on would have to get much more specific on the issues to carry New York State in the .presidential elections. Goodell was booed at his first major cam~aign appearance as a Senator. l'lb:on .continued to draw criticism for h.is failure to be specific and he lost New York by nearly 380,000 votes. The Republican Senator ·is a supporter of the anti-poverty program (although a severe critic. of some ofits features) and has called the Office of Economic Opportunity a \fuddle factory.\ Convocations Any member of the college community wishing to suggest possible Convocation speakers for 1969-70 should submit a written list of nominees to Prof. D. Ross, Dept. of Classics, Humanities Building. A brief resume may be included if the nominee is not generally known. Lists must be submitted this week. on March 13th, allowing the Senate to begin operation during the first week of the spring term.. Kessler, RundeU and SC President. Rusty Manker wiU keep their posts whether or not the proposal passes. Returns Favorable Danny Aronzon reported that early returns on the poll were approximately 7-3 in favor of the proposal. Kessler, in a statement after the Council meeting, said he would like to see a ·Change in the way Council (or Senate) meetings are run. Instead of Bolding <liscussions on sundry issues broug11t up at a particular meeting, Kessler would like to see the Council appoint committees to study issues. Once these committees had reported back to the Council witli. concrete alternatives on the issues, the Council could, Kessler hopes, discuss the problem more intelligently than is now the case. Defers ROTC Decision Walter Spencer told the Council that the Faculty's Curricular Affairs Committee is scheduled to tum a. \thorough report\ on AFROTC over- to President Martin by the seconcl week of April. The Council decided to defer a decision on whether to call for- the elimination of credit for AFROTC courses until that report is made public. Kessler's election came following; the withdraw) of William Ouzer, '71 .. who was also nominated for th~ position. In a statement announcing: his withdrawal last Wednesday evening: Ouzer said, \Although I was gratified_ to be the only candidate nominated_ from outside the council I believed the transition from the old constitution to the new required leaders who had been among the framers <Jf the new constitution. Both Messrs. Kessler and_ Rundell are, in my opillion qualified dedicated and worthy of the position.\ Student Voice Petition Favors Council Phys. Ed. Prop:osal Goodell created something of a sensation with his fellow New Yorl<ers by assuming a key role on the 1%4 Republican convention platform committee and sticking by the final resul is in the face of liberal scorn. Co-Ed Experiment Postp.oned As Few Appl'i,cations Arrive I v Sponsored by two members of the . f-ommittee for a Student Voice, Lou · Liebhaber and Phil Galdston, a petit ion supporting the Student Council Maintenance Resolution is ~Jeing circulated. j : J, i · L. Designed to indicate the extent of )tudent support for the Council )roposal and dissatisfaction with the Cetz plan, the petition at present has ~~ •· ~.» 76 signers towards a stated goal of 100. ~ Gladston said last night \the next tep is collecting the petitions, :atching anybody who hasn't signed \~d presenting the petitions to the acuity.'' '> ( Action beyond this is contingent ~ P~n Faculty response, Galdston mdtcated. \If action is not favorable ~uggestions include a boycott or some Qther form of direct action. The ~ommittee stresses, however, that the l i!lost important issue is the show of upport and presentation to the 1cu1ty of the petition.\ At p1esent the Council Resolution .._as bet•r; rndorsed by the All-College Council and' stands ready for discussion at the next Faculty Council meeting scheduled for later in the month. Galdston IVished to emphasize that all petitions still in circulation should be returned tG 202 South as soon as possible. Praised by Rocky 011e of his opponents was Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, who was to praise Goodell's activity on the 1968 pl;:ttfo rm on behalf of liberal viewpoints and t(} reward him with the Due to an \extremely poor return\ on distributed applications. ·the Exper~ent in Co-Education Living has been forced to postpone Co;Ed Week from the first week (l'ilarch 31-April 1) to the third week (A.pril 14·18) of Spring Term. The dedsion was reached by the group last ni~ tat a meeting in the Social Sciences building. IS UNION V'IAITING FOR YALE TO CHANGE ITS BULBS?: Hale House, a beacon to all of us in search of knowledge is dimmed. 011.e :would think that if GE can afford to give us a computer they could spare a couple of dozen bulbs. buttitne will tell. \We sent 800 applications out, but they apparently didn't reach the right peo.ple-- the girls who want to come,\ said Mark Merson, one of the group'~ co-chairman. \We've been getting a. great maJJy requests from Vassar an<l Russel Sage, yet nobody seems to have hit these places. Helpers Needed \What we need now is people willing to spend some time over their vacations recruiting at schools we feel will be interested, at schools which have already asked for more information,\ stated D()n Kessler, the other co-chairman. Difficulty had already been encountered in schedueling girls int() classes due to the normal chaos of the first week of a term, with guys. switching out of classes. Also, steward~ of the various fraternities contacted t() aid in feeding the girls stated that doing so would be much. easier during the third week. Other projects giveTh. new dimension thanks to the change ill time are taking care of housing arrangements, and finding linen and. things. New applications will be available very shortly in Student Activities~ Anyone who has already don~ recruiting is urged to call the wometl he has already contacted and advis~ them of the revised elates. Anyon~ willing to aid in further distribution ·- should contact either Don Kessler or Mark Meorson at Phi Sigma Delta.

PAGE 2 Published Tuesday and Frida.y dur- in& the school year by the Student Body of l:)nionCoJ.lege, Schenectady. N.Y. National Advertising R\pre• a\ntative: Nat<lonal Educ a11onal AdvO!rtlSing s .. rvice, Inc •. College publishers Repro sent at J\·e, 360 Lexington Avenu.,, N. Y. C. Edit oriel Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publicn!lon Office. White.· hurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc .. 416-418 Fifth Ave .. Troy. 235·4450. · Entered in the Schenectady Post Off1ce as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscription 20' a .copy; $6 ·• year delivered anywhere in the United States. D. Peter Drotmen ................................................ Editor-in~Chief Richaxd Lewis .................................................. Business Manager William Ouzer .................................................... Managing Editor Larry Friedman ....................................................... News Editor Henry Fein .................................................. , .......... Sports Editor Paul Andrews .................................................... Facsimile Editor Alan Klein .................................................... Contributing Editor New Constitution: It's About Time According to all indications available to us as of publication time, the best predictions of those who know student body voting trends at Union and the high expectations of the framers of the new constitution, the Union College student body opted last night for what we consider one of the most efficient and responsive models. for student government to be found at any college, anywhere. We feel that it is regrettable, but not in.credible, that the constitution was virtually sabotaged in its initial attempt at ratification by lack of attendance at the near-student-body meeting several weeks ago. If the constitution had been passed then, last night's elections would have been ]or new representatives. We consider the Student Council's decision to allow the vote to be collected in the living units one of merit (though it may smack of Machiavelli). Now that the formality of raltifying the constitution is past, the first order of business after the election of new Senators is to streamline the new charter. Our proposals thereof have already been copiously outlined. These proposals are: eliminate the entirely worthless positions of the four class officers for each class and delineate the duties of the presently very vague judicial boards. Most importantly, we wish to caution the student body that success of the new government rests very heavily upon the quality of the representatives elected and the seriousness with which they attack their job. Unlike the constitution ratification fiasco, students will have but one chance to elect a good Senator without going through the embarrassing process of recall. Protest Guidelines Two events of concern to student activists and even student not-so- activists occurred in this nation recently: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,President of the University of Notre Dame, laid down his guidelines for the handling (presumably by campus police) of protests that infringe upon the rights of others, and the New York State Legislature began consideration of a bill which, if ratified, would revoke regents scholarships, etc. from students who have participated in disorderly or violent demonstrations. Father Hesburgh's guidelines which consist of, in order, a warning, 15 minutes of meditation and suspension, differ significantly from the Union College guidelines only by 15 minutes (i.e. demonstrating Union students who infringe on others' rights get a warning every 10 minutes for 30 minutes, then they may be arrested). We must note that no part of these rules have ever been exercised during any protest or demonstration here, nor do we anticipate that they will be. However, there is an additional difference, not readily apparent, between Union's guidelines on one hand and Notre Dame's and New York State's on the other. The rules here were set down by administrators in consultation with members of the now defunct, arch-liberal Campus Action Committee; while Hesburgh's and New York's are quite arbitrary. We confess that Father Hesburgh's impact on Union College is quite minimal. However, President Nixon took a \nose dive into the seething pot of campus protest,'~ to use the words of the Columbia University Spectator, by endorsing the good Reverend's statement. This may have a real hearing on Federal aid to Union and her students. We perceive the position taken by Notre Dame and the bill before the State Legislature as reactionary and primarily stop-gap measures. They skirt the issues at hand and do little else than antagonize everyone involved, while failing to accomplish that to which they portend-protecting the rights of the peace-loving majority. Therefore, we mge Father Hesburgh and President Nixon to reconsider their stands, the New York State Legislature to defeat this bill (which, by the way, the Student Council voted to urge the N. Y .S. Legislature to defeat, while similtaneously condemming violent disorder), and the new Student Senate to re-examine the Union Golleg·e student demonstration guidelines before spring arrive~ - as it is at that time that the protest season, like nearly everything else around here, opens. • EMIL A. ZIMA: Ghanaian Information Officer who spoke to the International Relations Club last night on African affairs. African. • • its policy on apartheid. He said that the big powers could force South Africa to change, but that they oppose sanctions in the United Nations. ffis final words on South Africa were, \lf persuasion and other means fail, the only alternative is for the people to fight.\ UK Troop Asked' Adzima said that the United Kingdom should send troops to suppress the \rebels\ in Souther Rhodesia. He said that the UK has sent troops to suppress other colonial uprisings, and asked why they do not do the same to Rhodesia. He concluded that \bloodshed guerilla warefare, and force\ are the fate of Southern Rhodesia unless the Smith regime is oust~d. The Ghanaian denounced the \archaic and stupid policy\ of Portugal in seeking to retain Mozambique and Angola as \extensions of Portugal across the Mediterranean.\ He said that the peoples of these colonies, while perhaps not ready for immediate independence, are entitled to self-determination. Portugal has an obligation to prepare them to assert that right. If she does not fulfill that obligation, \the only alternative is to fight.\ United Nigeria Asked about the Biafran situation, Adzima said that Ghana would like to see a united Nigeria and would try to bring the two sides to a compromise. He saw the East African economic pact as a step toward African unity and not as an expression of separatism by the East African countries. He said that economic sanctions against Rhodesia have failed and will continue to fail. Asked about th€ Middle East, he said that Ghana thinks that the Arab states should recognize Israel and that Israel should relinquish the territories she occupied during the Six-Day War of 1967. Room-mate Wanted One more room-mate is needed to fill three•bedroom apartment. $40 a month with all utilities. five minute walk from campus. Call 346-6877 after 11:15p.m. Tile PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. aho THURS. and FRI~: 7 Jo 9 PM \SCOTIA N. Y. Phone 399-1630 MARCH4 1969 LETTERS TO .THE ED.ITOR· < Thanks The following is an op.en letter to Larrry Sykes, •11. Dear Mr. Sykes, Thank-you very much for coming to our room and 'telli.l\g us about you and your career. I thin:k we all have learned many things from your visit. There were many people who are very much in tetested in football and ,they enjoyed how you explained everything so very completely. Sincerely, Miss Bennett's 6th Grade Class Martin Luther King School Schenectady To king Care To the Editor: The Conc()rdy review of The Caretaker could not have seen or heard the same production .as the one I experienced on the .second night. As Henry Weil directed them, Jeff De Munn, Dean Hoffman, and Bruce Shackleton were very moving in the counterpoint of characters they brought to· life in the Pinter play. I was spun between the poles of laughter and astonishment. Most memorable were the expressive complexity of shifting remotions across .the faces and ho dies of De Munn and Hoffman, and the visibly growing intensity of thwarted inner movement of pain and dignity in Shacldeton. It was a subtly luminous perfonnance, filled for me with wonder at the mysteries of the human spirit. I am grateful to the men who created it. Sincerely yours, Miriam M. Conable Counselor to Students Dismay To the Editor: With great dismay it has come to my attention that my plans • <liEN. BR~W.CO., ROCH .. N.Y. for the elimination of the Winter term have been laid in so bureaucratic a quandiry that their implmentation even now, remains at some point in the distant future. I harbor no illusioHs that so grandiose a scheme be accepted without proper chanelling, nor am I in any way doubtful .of its eventual success. Until such time however, as the iNtricate machinery set in motion provides a final solution to this dilemma, I offer a second proposal, easily implemented, which would allow a certain of our number climatological satisfaction during the winter months. The Student Tax Committee has graciously presented a statement concerning income and expenditures for their fiscal year. Upon the reading of this statement it is immediately evident that Union College is sitting on a veritable gold mine of untapped resources. It seems that in excess of $69,000 per year has been allocated to the various salutary organizations that abound the Union. College campus. My proposal consists of withdrawing these allocations and placing the $69,000 into a lottery, equally accessible to all Union students on a one man chance basis. In this way at least five or ten students could escape the Schenectoga Circle to take up residence in Tahiti, Samoa, etc. Let it be clear that I in no manner propose the abolishment of these existing organizations, which serve some small prup0se in filling the Freshman Fecord, and providing entertainment during Orientation Week. Rather the disappearing of these funds would in no way change the character of this institution, o t h e r t h a n t h e s li ght inconvenience imposed upon the treasurers of these groups in ... a little more exciting! 1• organizing their books with zer< income as well as ze.n~ owtput As for the matter of intellectua starvation or stagnation thk might arise from such a move . let me simply state that a maJ, on the .ground can fall Ili.J further, and I expect that th• intellectual atmosphere of thi , campus will change not one bi1 I It may in fact be possible ·~Ji> retain the nominal functions o · these groups so that .thei · absence will not even be misseq. 1n this as in my other plan leave the particulars to tht administrators who, no doubt. are m0re adept in such intricat~ matters than I. I offer this as only )• , . temporary solution, and remain anxious f()r my first plan to enjoy favorable consideration. I am as always, YourHumble Servant Robert B. Chipki7. Contest ) Due te a last minute rush of entries. many· from Canajoharie which received permission t$;> enter following an eleventh hour proclamation by the g0vernor, the Editors will announce Friday 1 the results of the much heraldet1 Concorcliensis translation. contest. l It can be revealed, howeve.J. the secret of A Causa Persa Parole Assai was unlocked by one perceptive entrant. The surprise grand prize, to h'l awarded him will also be announced in Fridays issue. Editor D. Peter Drotrnan wishes to express his thanks to th'i! British Maseum for their aid in handling entries in Hieroglyphics. The enti&f contest which required the full-time staffing of our 35 man research team was an unqualified success. ·J .. C01 wil Eli col Th \by : Willi Com publi~ disintt eclitor \I succee Weiss. three spend to do unwiU the ge work.' Wei staff, presen \there 1. campu just 'W1 their h (·• Th Colle group meetir the sc late in Tw for pc of the the o fa cult) BuildiJ 7:30 t! on, be i 1., 2. ] Uni 3. ] grar RO' 4. J 5.. 1 loca 6. I c ·-Nob

1969 PAGE 3 1• with zer< ouwput intellectua thk a move, that a ma~, fall Ili.J that th' of thi not one bi1 i possible .L,.'> functions o · that .thei, be misseq. other plan ars to tht no doubt, intricat~ only )' , and remain rst plan to Servant B. Chipkh J• rush of Canajoharie t$\l hour gevernor, ounce Friday heraldelj j translation . howeve.J. Causa Persa by ntrant. The to t1l ill also be issue. wishes anks to th'i! their aid in tries in The entir.f the 35 man unqualified •l 1 .. The Concord College Chorale, under the direction of Dr. Abel John Peterson, will present a concert at 8:30p.m., Friday in Memorial Chapel. Concord Cellege is.located at Athens, W.Va. Featured will be \Messe 'Solennelle to Saint Celia,\ by Charles Gounod. Soloists for the mass will be Mrs. Sue Lovern, saprano; Edward Williams, tenor; and Robert Tibbs, bass. The remainder of the .program will be works by Handel, Bach, Willan, Graham, ru1d Pitoni. Mrs. Elizabeth Cummings, assistant professor of music at Concord, will accompany the Chorale. The concert will be presented under the auspices of the Concord-Union Cooperative Program. Union's glee club, under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, associate professor of music and college organist, will appear at Concord College May 11. , Herald Falls To Apathy Hobart Paper Shuts Down By LARRY FRIEDMAN The Herald, the newspaper \by and for the Hobart and William Smith CoUege Community\ has ceased publication due to student disinterest and lack of a willing editor-in-chief. \I could not frnd anyone to succeed me,\ said editor Marc Weiss. \It was a ,combination of three things: an unwillingness to spend time on the job; a desire to do something else; and an unwillingness to get involved in the general hassle of newspaper work.\ Weiss noted he had a good staff, but since Hobart is presently without a president, \there is more inaction on the Meaningful to Students? \I decide.d to suspend publication,\ stated Weiss, \to see what would happen. I'm in teres ted in the campus reaction. It's a question of how meaningful the Herald is to the students.\ Describing the paper's stand on national affairs, Weiss said, \we are a fairly left kind of paper. I want the Herald to be a goad to peop}e .. to get them thinking and responding. However, on campus news, we are objective· almost to the point of blandness.\ Just a 'Sleep' there are any, and if there is a demand .for us to resume publication, then we will.\ Noting that the \peculiar three-term calendar, and the lack of course credit for the editorship\ were factors in the failure to find a new editor, Weiss said, \the suspension might be a very constructive thing for the college and students.\ Linebacker 1. campus than action, and people just were getting tired of hitting their heads against a brick walL\ \It is just a 'sleep' and not really a fold,\ he said. \The Herald can't be published if it doesn't have the support of the rest of the campus. We will print all letters and advertisements if Bob Saltzman, director of the Linebacker, a publication in which student evaluations of courses and professors are made available to the College community, announced that a winter edition of the publication will be attempted. Similar to the ill-fated fall edition, student forms will be made available in the Field House during spring registration. The fall edition of Linebacker was withheld from publication by Saltzman, who claimed that lack of participation invalidated the results obtained. .. Literary Group To Meet in April The newly-formed Union College Literary Discussion group has postponed its first meeting until April 2 because the scheduled books arrived too Ia te in the term. Two groups will meet; ~one for poetry in the faculty lounge of the Social Sciences Building; the other for fiction in the faculty lounge of the Humanities Building. Meetings will run from 7:30 to 9:00p.m. The poetry group will first discuss the works of E.E. Cununings, while the fiction section will talk about Kafka's The Trial. The group will be meeting ()Very two weeks on Wednesday ev.enings. Harry Miller, organizer of the discussion group requests that any interested students attend and make suggestions regarding works to be discussed in the future. ROTC Poll Information from the Fall term edition is unavailable at Schaeffer Library, contrary to previous policy of Linebacker. A number of faculty members and students have expressed interest in seeing the fall results, but Saltzman will not release any information due to his opinion that no valid conclusions were obtained. Presently the faculty Curriculum Affairs Committee is conducting an investigation of AFROTC \ on campus with a view towards possible alteration of its status on campus. The Committee would be interested in your responses to the following questions: 1. Are you basically indifferent toward the status of ROTC? 2. Do you have moral objections to the presence of ROTC at Union? 3. Do you favor continuing the present status of ROTC: i.e granting credit for five courses toward graduation and conductin! ROTC actiVities on campus? 4. Do you favor granting less than five course credits? s_ Do ·you favor removing ROTC activities from the campu location? 6. D.o you favor abolishing ROTC at Union? Comments: · ·Note: Boxes ~tre in the library and West College for collection. Yes No 40 From Ne:w York City Visit Union· and· Albany By TONY BENINATI MARCH 4, 1969 \It can't be worse than an all-male high school,\ commented John and Peter Leung, ages 16 and 18 respectively, after spending Friday evening and Saturday morning at Union College. They are two of 40 disadvantaged high school students ft~om New York City who visited Union and SUNY-Albany as part of the College Bound program. The students, from Haaren High and Boy's High, both all-male schools, were impressed by Union's campus and curriculum. They participated in mock classes Saturday morning after spending a somewhat sleepless night in North College. Still A Minority The classes discussed topics such as \Black Capitalism\ and \Minority Groups in American Society.\ A question brought up in Professor Malcom Willison's class was \Have there been any changes in the Neg1o's position in America since the Civil War?\ Ray Fowler, age 16, responded, \We were a minority then, and we are still one now.\ BLITHER William Lucher, age 16, and Francis Stamps, age 18, agreed they liked Union but they doubted they would attend this college. Frank, who expressed an interest in art, explained \This being an all'-male school doesn't bother me, but I would rather go to a school with a larger Art Department.\ Bill commented that \After going to an all-male high school, I would prefer a co-ed college, but maybe by the time I apply, Union will be co•ed.\ · Pearson Hopeful All students selected for the program are invited to attend a seven week summer session sponsored by College Bound. In addition, questionaires will be sent to the students' high schools to evaluate their stay at Union. Applications for all types of fmancial aid (scholarship, loan, and employment) in 1969·70 will be available beginning MOnday, March 10, at the Student Aid Office, first floor, Old Gym Hall from 9:00 a.m. to noon and from 1:30 p.m. to 4:00. p.m., Monday through Friday. Completed applications must be returned not later than May 1. Since a Parents' Confidential Statement must be furnished, it is advisable to secure the necessary papers prior to leaving for spring recess and take them home to parents at that time. R. Gordon Bingham Director of Student Aid Applications are available for the Editorship of the Freshman Record. The forms can be obtained at the Student Activities Office and must be returned by March 21st. Applications for Resident Adviser are available in the Dean of Students Office. All freshmen, sophomores, and juniors are eligible. All forms must be returned by March 20. Applications for the junior member of the Tax Committee are available in the Dean of Students Office. Applications for Orientatioa Group Leader are available in the Dean of Students Office. All freshmen, sophomores, and juniors are eligible. Applications must be returned to the Dean's office by March 14. Phi Gamma Delta fraternity will hold an informal debate March 5 at 7:00p.m. concerning the maintenance issue. Speakers will be Prof. Wilford Ketz, Alan Cohen, Daniel Shocket, and Walter Spencer. All interested students and faculty are urged to attend. The Mountebanks will hold a reception at Phi Gamma Delta fraternity March 7 following their final production of Harold Pinter's \The Caretaker.\ The Union College Woodwind Quintet will hold an informal concert March 6, at 4:45 p.m. in SS 016 .. Works by Haydn, Milhaud, De bussey, and !bert will be performed. Subscriptions for the new concert series, sponsored by In tern a tiona! Basketcase Productions, and featuring Patrick Sky in the first concert, may be purchased for $1 from Eric Mendelssohn--317 Davidson; George Lonsdorf--311 Richmond; Jim Ludwig--430 West; and Daniel Shocket--360 Fox. Jonathan Pearson III, director of admissions, noted that the administration is \hopeful to continue a close liaison with College Bound.\ IEEE At Tuesday's meeting our; guest speaker will be Lawrence J. Matteson. He has chosen to speak on the Lunar Orbiter Program. The Orbiter was designed and built for photographically mapping the surface of the moon, so as to select eventual landing sites . for the Appolo progrram. We will gather in room EE-22 at 8 PM for this lecture. There will be refreshments following the· talk. I can not encourage you enough to attend what will be a very interesting presentation. . Report From london · By RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. Despite efforts of rnilitant students to organize a \hot reception for Nixon\ the President's arrival in London was warm and went smoothly, though accompanied by instances of unusually loose security. Crowd Begins to Move · I arrived at Claridee's from the Embassy at about 9:45 p.m. Having planned to attempt to inflltrate the press so as to be better able to observe events, I carried a camera (empty) and a note pad. I went immediately to the press circle as soon as I arrived at the Embassy around 7:00 p.m. During the two and one half hours there, I was approached by policemen three times. The first time, I quickly flashed my Concordiensis Press Pass, said \Press\ and the policeman moved on. Once, my Press pass was closely scruitimized by a pair of police officers who also asked for further identification. I did not have the official pass issued to the regular press covering the Pre si dent's visit, but after examining my drivers license and determining that I was American, the officers said \Well this is your Embassy, you might as well stay here.\ Later, when asked by a Scotland Yard agent for which paper I worked, I replied \New York paper,\ and he moved on. Finally Arrives Finally at midnight the President's car, led by four motorcycles with blaring lights and sirens and followed by a carload of secret service men, arrived at the hotel. The front entrance to the hotel and all the balconies above it were also guarded by secret service men. The President got out of the car, turned around and waved to .the cameras, and quickly ducked into the hotel. He took less than one minute from car to hotel. The demonstrators seem to have been caugl;lt by surprise, because not until Nixon was already in the hotel did they begin chanting slogans again. In a matter of minutes, everyone began leaving the area. Your new boyfriend has a new gi~friend? Think it ovelj over coffee. The Think Drink. Foryourown Think Drink Mug, send 75tandyour name and address to: Think Drink Mug, Dept. N, P.O. Bo• 559, New York, N. V. 10046. The International Coffee Organization.

Concordy Sports PAGE 4 MARCH 4, 1969 ·C.r·o·w· n r=.. ·~·· .. H· •. -.(·.-····F···E·· .. ,I····:N·- .. ···L···I·N··· .... ,.E·.··-·,1 .o~, Grapplers Cop Third Straight ICAC . . . . . . to win a title three consecutive J· by HENRy FEIN J By STU MOSS Union's varsity wrestling team ended a highly successful season over the weekend by taking its third straight ICAC Championship at Geneva. The Garnet tallied I 07 .points as five champions repeated from last year. St. Lawrence took second by scoring 67 points, sneaking by R.P.I. by one. The host Hobart picked up 60 points and Clarkson was last with 4. Ron Ruhl at 117, Bill Munno at :123, Frank D' Antuono at 130, Jeff Knetzer at 145 and Naysim Simon at 167 won the individual titles. John Balirows made it to the fmals at 123 only to have to ·default to Munno due to an injury. D'Antuono won for the third str.aight .year when his rival. Geratdo Brown had to default after the first minute of the match. Frank is only the second wrestler in ICAC history years, the first being Union's Ron Ionatti who won twice at ... ••••••--••••••••-•••••••--••••••• f. 130 and once at 137 from· 1966 With the regular seasons drawing to a close, the Garnet wrestlers ~· to 1968. and swimmers are turning their attention to the post-season , ... Larry Stevens looked sharp in tournaments. The grapplers, ICAC dual-match and tourney champs, taking third palce in the 137 lb. will once .again be represented at Ohio's 41's classic, while the 1, class fighting back from a mermen hope to send four of their number to the NCAA College n quarter-final loss. Bart Gale and Division championships at Springfield. Steve French picked up third Coach Ron Coleman, in his final appearance as mentor of the and fourth respectively at 152 wrestling squad before taking over Indoor Track, will accompany ,\ while Dick Rosener finished juniors Bill Munno and Naysim Simon to the '[nterstate fourth at 160. Intercollegiate Independent Invitational Tournament, to be held (, Simon again beat Clarkson's March 14-15 at Miami University, in Miami, Ohio. 1 Pete Robertson, defending ICAC Coleman had hoped to take all five ICAC champs to Ohio for the • 1 champion at 177 in an tmun:ey, but a shortage ·Of athletic department funds made that extremely close match. Besides impossible. Naysim's win, Mac Bigge took Both grapplers will be making return appearances at the 41's fourth place at 167. Dell where they competed along with Ron Ianotti last year. Munno r Crandall at 177 and Ken Merz at fmished third at 117 in last season's event when he lost to the 191 did not get past the early eventual champ, Dave Keller of Toledo, in the quarter-finals. Simon rounds, the former due to won his first match against Kip Keller of Miami, but was eliminated TJ injury. In the heavyweight by John Condo of St. Francis. division, Pete Kenyon took third Last year, the athletic department could not mise the funds to ,- 1 ,• VOL.~ DEA Mall For I and Skip Lynch fourth. send the grapplers, and $345 was raised by students in less than a Coach Ron Coleman was week to .send the squad. n' ' C F.reshr cars duri1 the follm Undefeated Garnet 167 grapJller Naysim Simon, who won •his second straight ICAC championship Saturday, shown in action against RPI earlier this year. Simon, and Bill Munno will compete in the 41's Tourney at Miami, Ohio March 14· 15. Photo by George Kaplan. ·extremely pleased with his Coach Bob Benson's mermen will compete this Saturday in the team's performance in his last New York 'State championships at Syracuse, but for two freshmen appearance as coach before he and two seniors the season will not end there. Although plans are 1 » takes over as indoor track still very tentative, the Garnet hope to enter a medley relay squad at mentor next year. He felt the Springfield in addition to butterflyer Steve Werlirt, who competed in squad was really up for the the NCAA tourney at Atlanta last year. tournament, both mentally and Although ECAC rules prohibit the use of frosh in » physically. varsity events •before next September, the NCAA permits such Coach Coleman added that competition thus allowing the Frosh stars to represent the Garnet. both Munno and Simon would First, however, the team must be q_tlalified, and this presents some Iii be going to the 4 I's tournament, problem. On paper, the squad should be able to do 3:48, well below to be h~ld March 14 and 15 at the 3:51 qualifying mark. To do so, however, requires a good Miami of Ohio. The matrnen will \pushing\ competition, and Benson is trying to arrange for a be returning to the tourney, as clocking, possibly against RPI in the near future. they competed last year along Werlin, who is the state record holder in the butterfly at both 100 with Ron Ianotti. and 200 yards, hopes to improve his national perforri:J.ance this year. ' FINAL HOOP ST-J.\IS· Pucksters Stand At .500; Beat Hoosac, Tie Utican~s After swimming well all year, he failed to advance in the qualifying heat at Atlanta. a More than a word should be saici here about the outstandingjob done by Coach Coleman over the past two wrestling seasons. During that span, the grapplers rolled up a superior 18-2 dual-match mark, » and won back-to-back ICAC crowns, including eleven individual championships. The 1968 Garnet were the first undefeated squad in thirteen years in any sport, and the first in the twelve-year history of wrestling at Union. Although the squad lost matches to Colgate and J» Kings Point by narrow margins in mid-season this year, the grapplers immediately rebounded and handily won their final four encounters. PLAYER G FG FGA PCT FT 87 FTA PCT RB PTS AVG. Neidel Boehmke M11mford Getman Shames 21 21 20 20 21 184 98 71 364 .506 202 .485 204 .347 190 .331 87 46 40 23 104 .835 78 .590 62 40 .646 .575 .718 211 243 67 110 60 455 21.7 242 11.5 182 9.1 149 7.5 135 Katzman Fitzgerald Jacobs Spaulding Vergith Palen Strickland Others 18 13 16 63 51 40 146 .349 115 .34~ 76 .36~ 23 .43S 21 .28(:) 13 .154- 33 29 36 46 45 57 .645 .632 28 109 6.4 6.0 Team Reb. 8 9 10 4 28 10 6 2 4 19 .SOD 2 .500 58 6 3 8 3 0 16 12 .500 5 10 6 3 26 .600 .800 .500 .000 37 22 11 6 9 67 163 92 7.1 26 1.6 15 1.9 12 1.3 11 l.1 2 0.5 54 0. Total Opp. Total Record: 10-11 577 599 1422 .406 330 1455 .412 373 494 558 .666 1040 1484 70.7 .669 1010 1571 74.8 Harpur 70, Union 58 Hartford 88, Union 80 (OT) Union 76, NorWich 67 Union 86, Drew 68 Amherst 71, Union 68 Kings Point 95, Union 61 Union 80, Middlebury 71 Union 72, Trinity 69 Union 68, Stevens 39 Upsala 84, Union 73 Hope 11 0, Union 82 St. Lawrence 90, Union 71 Union 63, Ohio Wesleyan 59 Union 98, Clarkson 79 Rochester 80; Union 4 8 Union 85, Alfred 79 Union 82, Hobart 63 Union 68, Wesleyan 67 RPI 50, Union 4 7 Hamilton 95, Union 57 Williams 77, Union 63 INDIVIDUALS Most Points Scored Neidel vs Norwich Field Goals Scored Neidel vs Norwich Free Throws Scored Neidel vs Hobart Number of Rebounds Neidel vs Stevens 12/7/68 12/7/68 1/11/69 2/1 8/69 Field Goals Scored Free Throws Scored Points Scored Most Decisive Win VS VS vs VS TEAM Drew Clarkson Clarkson Stevens ,. MISCELLANEOUS 34 30 13 11 20 34 (new record) 98 29 (Union 68, Stevens 39) Most Points, .Both Teams vs '. \ Most Opr. Points vs Hope Hope 192 (Hope 110, Union 82) 110 MostDeddve loss vs Hamilton 38 (Hamilton 95, Union 57) CARbER fOT ALS G J:G FGA PCT Fl FTA PCT RB PTS AVG. Neide(\s6 378 822 46.1 178 215 83.0 487 934 16.7 By virtue of an easy 4-1 win over Hoosac Prep on Friday, and a hard-fought 4-4 tie with Utica College on Saturday, the Hockey Club pulled up to the .500 level in weekend hockey action. The skaters' record, after five games, now stands at 2-2-1. Friday afternoon's game was played on Hoosac's outdoor rink under poor ice conditions. The game was played anyway, however, and the Garnet slipped, fell, and sloshed their way to a 4-1 victory. Passing, stickhandling, and sometimes even skating were nearly impossible under the atrocious ice conditions, but Chris O'Neil, Mike Kolceski, Hunter Townsend, and Emerson Martin managed to score for the Garnet. Sunday's game at Hoosac was cancelled because of the ice conditions. Tough Utica Tie The main bout Was reserved for Saturday afternoon, as the Dutchmen literally battled the Utica College Hockey Club to a 4-4 tie, in a game played on Hamilton ice. Utica, a big, rough, !llld tough group of skaters, hit the Garnet icemen hard and often illegally. In the first period, the Uticans moved into an early lead, as the Pioneers capitalized on a two-on-one break to score at 4:02. The Dutchmen, however, came right back to take a 2' 1 edge on two goals by Brad Hastings. Hastings pulled the Gamet even at 6:19, poking a soft ten-footer past tlie Utica goaler, and converted the rebound of Jim Glidden's drive 'at 19:25 to give Union the lead. Both teams cooled down considerably in the third period and concentrated on winning the hockey game. Utica pulled to within one at 5:04, but Chris O'Neil moved the Acme Barber Sh,op- . 509 Union Street E.xp'erienced Barbers Nearest to Un.ion Coll.ege Students Garnet into a commanding 4-2 lead at 8:26, rifling the rebound of Hasting's shot, which had hit the goalpost, into the cage. Utica, however, came roaring back to knot the count, scoring at 15 : 15 and 16:52. Thelast three minutes saw the Garnet stilling Utica's late drive for a win. Becau:,e of the hostile atmosphere on the ice at the game's end, the referees decided to forego overtime and an eventual brawl, calling the game a tie. As witnessed by last Saturday's shutout at Cortland, the Indoor h Track team is in need of some strong help. If Coach Coleman can perform his \magic\ on the harriers next winter, his toss from wrestling will be more than bearable. Sports Sch,lock ·» '72 Run Highligh,ts· Cortland; Invitation Meet Here Sat. A varsity lacrosse manager is needed. Anybody interested should contact Coach Allison as lJ soon as possible, as the season has already started. Highlighted by a strong freshman showing, the Garnet trackmen .opened their season on Saturday at the Cortland State [nvitational. The thinclads will be in action again Saturday, when they host the thirteenth annual Union College Invitational indoor meet. The meet will feature twenty colleges and universities, four more than last year. At Cortl!llld, the varsity was shut out primru.ily because they faced such strong competition as Colgate and Cornell. The freshmen, however, were strong fourth-place fmishers tying Colgate alld falling short of the third spot by only one point. The frosh performance was highlighted by ~ strong effort from Rick J aszczak, who won the freshman 600-yard run with his time of 1:15.6, and ran a fasi 2:02 were turned in by Steve Ramm, who placed third in the broad jump with a distance of 20'-2\; Tom Stillings, who took fifth in the high hurdles; and Frank Ferrara, who f\mished fourth in the shot-put. Coach Ketz felt that the freshman, on the whole, \did quite well.\ Heading the list of participating colleges at the Union Invitational will be defending champion Amherst, which nosed out Springfield College in the final event of last year's meet to capture frrst place. Lehigh University of Bethlehem, Pa., will be making its first appearance at the Union Invitations. Hartwick, R.I.T., and Buffalo State will return to competition after a year's absence from the meet. **** Coach Lawrence requests that all people interested in playing baseball this spring meet in the . Field House tomorrow~ afternoon at 3 p.m. ~------------------~; THE PEANUT STORE Featurin-g PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeots from all the world. 406 STATE ST. over tif: •I' ., half-mile in the Garnet's fourth-place l-------------.!:::iiiiiiiiiii'iilii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~o;;;;:==-iiti medley relay fmish. According to Ketz, the talented yearling will be the Dutchmen's \key man\ this season .. J asczack, an accomplished high: school runner, won the New York State 440 crown last season. Other strong frosh performances JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATES FOR COUEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dotes Free Parking In Rear 1 For three Generations.'· Those Who Know •.• Have been recommending ·- HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY 11 IJ,' 1. All opera1 registe Office be iSSl must 1 decal · opera1 be of issued registe $25.0( Traffi< Colleg 2. Fresh campu Richr imme Cra~ Lon~ ,, .. ,. Will Peter involved underta associate Upward March 1~ Up~ federally cui tu~!l-n~ high:~~i cbnsi'der~ dev-elop theiredu Crawf Slack, wl since last Crawf · indefinit( General J Upward 'with GE • producti< turbine d ( His C· producin: WMHT, station; speech w non-profi Crawf1 Schenect; Commissi (. Schenec Council, Commun. a board 1 chapter. Up war of John ' third yea

4, 1969 ,.OJ I wrestlers &• champs, the n of the company t>. be held for the ,, that the 41's Munno st to the Simon fJ funds to than a in the freshmen plans are 1 » . at in frosh in » such e Garnet. some li> below s a good for a both 100 this year. lJ _ndingjob During mark, » squad in of and » grapplers Indoor can from is interested Allison as he season that playing in the morrow UT II over ·» [) 'lfl IJi tfr: •» •I' •t If,' ,, ,, I I, I \A Causa Persa Paro:le Assai\ Founded at Union Col?,e~ SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MARCH 7, 1'969 1877 ~'It Pays To Go First Class\ PRICE TWENTY CENTS New Constitution Is Approved; Ratification Is By Wide ~Margin -~-- DEAN EDWAaD MALLOY Malloy Gives Nod For Frosh Autos F.reshmen will be aUowed to have cars during the Spring term, subject to the following regulations: I. All motor vehicles owned or operated by Freshmen must be registered in the Student Activities Office. An identification decal will be issued, at a cost of 25 cents, and must be displayed at all times. This decal will signify that the owner or operator is a freshman and it will be of a diffeFent color from those issued to upperclassmen. Failure to register a car may result in a fine of $25.00, imposed by the Student Tr:affic Court and/or action by the .. College Discipline Committee. 2. Freshmen may park their cars on campus only in the two lots behind Richmond House. The lot immediately behind Richmond Continued on page 2 By STUART NESLIN By a margin of 8 to 1, students voting in the living unit poH approved the new constitution for student government. The new constitution goes into effect during the spring term, after the etections for the student senate have been held. Each living unit and fraternity will have at least one representative in the senate, with each senator representing approximately thirty people. Minutes of .the meetings will be available from living unit representatives and will be posted in the living unit. Direct Representation The student senate will r:eplace the present student council. Members of living units will have more opportunity to see their representative, and the senators will be in direct, daily contact with the people he represents. When asked by Concordy whether the student senate can increase student participation in campus activities, Stuart Rubin, one of the framers of the new constitution, stated: \I believe that there is a great ainount of apathy on this campus, and the new setup of student government will be one way to combat this.\ Instead of a separate ad hoc committee for each campus issue, the student senate will be available to serve as a representative of the student body. Crawford Named to UpwardBound: .Long Active in Human Relations Will Serve As Associate Director Peter M. Crawford, who has been involved locally in human relations ,. undertakings, has been named associate director of the Union Upward Bound program, effective March 17. Upward Bound is a school students from the surrounding area arrive on campus for a six-week program. Students in the Union program are primarily from Amsterdam, Schenectady, and Troy. Nationally, Upward Bound has been able to place about 80 per cent of its students in two - or four-year colleges. The first graduating class from the Union program was exactly at the avenge. Rubin Hopeful Rub in is hopeful that more students will participate in student gove m men t, especially with the reorganization of some of the various committees of the stadent counciL Under the new constitution, senators will be permitted t9 join only one committee. A greater number of participants can be expected from this. Ru·bin, although ••having no illusions about its success'~, is hopeful the new constitution will bring student groups closer together. When asked whether he thought the new document gave student government a better chance of survival, he replied that the constit_ution was creating an organization that is more manageable. DANlEL ARONZON: Aronzon, who was a key to the framing of the new constitution along with Walt Spencer and Stu Rubin. .MOUNTEBANKS The Mountebanks presentation of the \Caretaker\ by Harold Pinter continues this Friday and Saturday in Nott Memorial. Tickets for these concluding performances may be secured at the Nott Memorial Ticket Office any time this week. The Mountebanks will hold a reception in Phi Gamma Delta following the final performance. The production stars Jeff DeMunn, Dean Hoffman and Bruce Shackleton. Poll Successful Because of lack of a quorum at the original convocation to vote on the c onstituUon, it was decided by Council to have a poll of living units. Some members thought this would be unconstitutional. Rubin, when asked, replied that the living unit poll produced far better results and got more participation than the previously unsuccess-ful convocation. A co-writer of the constitution, Walter' Spencer Jr., stated: \If we can funnel student .opinion through student g<Jvemment, it will be possible to present a united front to the College C\lrnmunity, and this is what we want.\' Spencer did not consider the method of polling living units unconstitutional. Discrimination Against Fraternities Some members of fraternities have complained that under the new rul~ for apportionment of senators, fraternities are discriminated against. Some of the fraternities have 40-60 members, yet under the constitution they will have only one senator, the same as a living unit with 30 members. Spencer feels that there is not an issue of discrimination here. People will vote wh~re they live. Fraternity members th.at live in dormitories will be represented by the living unit senator. Spence-r sees few issues where the campus would be split between fraternity and independent lines. Finally he feels that the new system is actually Inuch fairer to fraternities, D. PETER DROTMAN Drotman Retir·es Kramer to Succeed This issue of Concordiensis marks the final number for Editor-in-Chief D. Peter Drotman and Contributing Editor Alan Klein. Drotman has served as Editor-in-Chief since September 1968 and will be succeeded by Neil S. Kramer. During his four year association with Concordiensis Drotman served as Business Manager, Assistant Business Manager and National . Advertising Manager in addition to reporting news articles as Bart Harrington, Jr. Alan Klein has been a Concordy staffer, Junior and Senior · Board member since his freshman year. Serving as Associate News Editor, Copy Editor and Contributing Editor, he was Special Correspondent during his Junior year at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. 93 Of Faculty Petition Governor Urging BlackC om mu nity Have Voice Planning Community College By NEIL S. KRAMER A petition requesting Governor Rockefeller to appoint a representative of the black community to the Board of Trustees of the Schenectady Community College (SCC) has been signed by 93 members of the Union faculty. The petition is being circulated by the Schenectady Community Action Program (SCAP). According to Carl Valentine, SCAP director, \There ~as been no sign of a commitment to either the poor or the black community in the planning of the community college.\ Uni()n Signers federally-funded program which helps cultUJ1.!!11Y:: and socially disadvantaged high::.:f~chool students, who are cbnsi'dered potential \drop-outs to dev.clop the motivation to continue their education beyond high school. Crawford will ·replace Mrs. Judy Slack, who has been assistant director since last summer. IRC Slates Three Conferences Twelve of the 15 department chairmen who were solicited signed the petition and all of the signers indicated their affiliation with Union, but only to identify themselves as professional educators. Only part of the faculty and professional staff was approached with the petition. GE Grants Leave Crawford has been granted an · indefinite leave of absence by the General Electric Company to take the Upward Bound position. He has been ' with GE since 1966, most recently as a production control specialist in the ( turbine department. His community activities include producing and hosting talk shows on WMHT, the educational television station; ahd public relations and speech writing for numerous voluntary non-profit agencies locally. Crawford is a member of the Schenectady County Human Rights Commission, a board member of the f. Schenectady Community Welfare Council, vice presiden~ of the local Community Action Program, Inc., and a board member of the local NAACP chapter. Terry Directs Upward Bound, under the direction of John Terry at Union, will begin its third year this summer when 60 high Three world affairs conferences will highlight the International Relations Club's spring recess activities. According to Gary Prevost, president of the IRC, the most significant event will be the annual China Conference to be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel in New York City, March 21-22. Colgate University will host a European conference March 20-23, while the University of Pennsylvania will sponsor a conference on student political power, March 27-30. China Conference The China Conference, which will KYSERLING Former Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, Leon Kyserling will speak · to an audience of college Faculty and Students Monday afternoon at 3:00 in the Social Sciences Buil'ding Auditorium. Kyserling, a well known economist, is an expert in the fields relating to government taxation and expenditure. This will be his first visit to Union. be convened by the National Committee on United States-China Relations is entitled \United States and China: The Next Decade.\ Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts heads a list of politicians and scholars including New York Senator Jacob Javits, Arthur Goldberg, Theodore Sorenson, John D. Rockefeller III, Harrison Salisbury, James Gavin, Edwin Reischaur, Lucien Pye. Panel discussions will cover a variety of topics such as \Political Trends in China,\ \China and World Security,\ and \International Perspectives on China.\ Lord Caradon to Appear The Colgate conference is entitled \Atlantic Relationships, Eastern Europe and the United Nations,\ and will be highlighted by the appearance of Lmd Caradon, British permanent representative to the UN. Panel discussions will, include academic experts on European affairs, European government represen~;atives and US State Department officials. The Pennsylvania conference wit! deal with all aspects of .student power concentrating on the student's role in the university and_ so~iety. Conference symposiu.ms of student leaders will discuss the goals and methods of student movements. Pa.ul Goodman to Speak Spea!cers will include Paul Goodman, Tom Hayden, Sam Brown, national chairman of Students for McCarthy, and representatives of student movements abroad. Persons interested in any of the conferences should contact Gary Prevost, 377-8460. IRC members will be assisted in paying registration fees, but infoimation is available to all Union Students. FORUM The next edition of the Ptesidell.t's Open Forum, held the second and fourth Tuesdays of every month, will feature Samuel Fortenballgh, new chairman of the Board oiTrustees. He and the President will ioin interested members of the Coliege community in Old Chapel, March 11th, at 7:30p.m. None of the present members of the community college trustee body is a Negro. At the February meeting of the County Board of Representatives, SCAP was joined by the Carver Community Center, the Schenectady County Human Rights Commission, and the local Council of Churches in asking the county legislature to appoint a black. Governor Petitioned When rebuffed by the county Board of Representatives, SCAP and their allies turned to the Governor, who alternates appointments to the sec trustees with the county legislature. According to Valentine, the SCC appears as \a school created for the poor but not with the poor.\ The Schenectady Community College plans to open next September on the site of the Van Curler Hotel. It will be a part of the State University of New Y ark system. I I !: i i !.

Publlllh<d Tueoday and Fuday dur· ln1 th'\ achool year by the Student Body of Un1on CoHee e. Schenectady. N,Y, National Advert1s1ng Repre- llentot 1v.,: N at&onal Educ at 1onal Advertuang Servtce, Inc .. College ,J>ubllahers Repre~entatlve. 360 Lexlni!IO n Av<\nue. N. Y. C. Edll or1al Ofhc:e, t>ld Gym, Un1on CoHe1e. Pubhcat1on Ofl1ce. W.hlte• hurst Pr1n11na: & B1nd1n& Co .. Inc: .. 416-HS F1fth Ave •. Troy. 235·4450. Entered 1n the Schenectady Post Off•c:e as Second Cl au a Mad Matter. Subscr!pllon 204 a copy.; $6 ~ year delivered anywhere 1n the Umted States. lJ J'L'h'f !>lllliiiJII.. . bi!tDJ·JJJ-( htL'i Rrc;ll:nd lt:w 1 ,.. . .. .l3u::,Hil'l'> \LurJ)::t:rl \\Jiltarn Ower ................................................. ~lan~lpn::; LJJtor Social Concern The chief dispute in contemporary educational philosophy concerns the role of the university in society, or the lack of such a role. Many people, some of them expert~, believe _that the ~niversity. must become socially conscious and mcrease Its comrmtments t@ the local, national and international communities. On the other hand, many educators follow the tenet tha~ the university's purpose is to educate its students Without regard to ex tcrnal or social pressu_rcs. . . It is our finn belief that social concern u; an mtcgral part of the totality of education. We deem it important for students to become more broad in their perspectives. ll~<~ion Collt'U't' students are. in faet, b('ct~ming more consciously a~arc of themselves. We cite evidPncr here of student pcrcipitatcd change within the last four year~: establishment of the Big Brother program, changes m parietal regulations, revamping of_ ~tude?t government, · student-staffing of faculty, adm1mstration, and even trusttee committees and the present concern over maintenance and ROTC. However, unless we keep our basic goals well in view, the issue mav well evolve into one of social concern versus social utility: This would be tragic._We fervently hop~ that Union will continue to interact w1th the curnmumtws of 1 which it is a part. but rue the day Vnion is utilized by i those l'ornmunitics in sueh a way as to ool'eure her : iden ti tv. 1 \ Tilt: g:oal. th!'n. is to strikl' tht' LalatH.:e between academil' and social com·t·rn that bt•st 1-'t'r\'t't-i tilt' studt·nts. Lilt' facult) anc.l. our comlllllllity. Re\aluation of_ goal_~ may ot' i11 orc.l.t'r fll'rt'. but wt· pt·n·<'ivc the present dirt'ctwn of tht• C:ollt'\t'. a::-: a wholt•. to lJI' toward th i>' hal atH't'. If tltt~·c is all\ kssutt to Lc lt-arrwd it is thi~: an institution call dtangt· if it has tlw will. flrob'Tt'ss is impu::;siLk unl) whl'll pl'oplt' think it i~. The gn·atcst dra wLa..I. .. is th11~t~ who sa) ·'it cannot Lt• dotH'.\ But it can if there is a will. Give the Grass a ChaHce St~wral times m recent years Concordicnsis has I t~xpre:;~t'd its c~neern 0\t~r the sh~ddy appearance this II erstwhik bt·auttful campus oeeas10nally Is forced to endure. llowcwr, twver !~as_ the need for some radical i ehange Let·n so apparent as It Is today. ' Several factors (heavy construction, more whicular ! traffic than ever, a very wd season, etc.) have-conjoined at this time to make the Union campus an horrendous morass. We had hoped that the All-College Council would have taken some action on this problem by now; but rather than releiving it, they have ostensibly worsened the· situation by permitting additional cars on campus (Dean Molloy recently granted this priviledge to the freshman class). Although· we in no way object to freshman operating motor vehicles at school (and, in fact, endorse the granting of this priviledge), we strongly object to the Council's inaction on the mud issue. We feel that they should have simultaneously presented some program to alleviate the already too ugly conditions here, e.g. closing the campus to all traffic except deliveries, etc. We would much ratllt'r see the inner campus become a park than a prakway. · For the Record During th•· first two terms of th(' 1963·6? academic ) car, Conc..:ordien::;i::; published 3·1 regular Issw·s ~the greatest number of issues printed in ~ny fu!l. year smce 1941-42, when 53 issues appeared), m addition to one extra edition on parietal rules (the second extra to appear in more than 10 years) and two humour issues. To translate into terms that students might understand, Coll'cordy staff members have published more than. half a million words in the past twenty weeks, or the equivalent of a 2\ page term paper consuming more than ~,500 man-hours. We have also printed more photographs m the first two thirds of this year than in any en tire y~ar, eve~. The 70,000 plus newspapers distributed so far this year IS another all-time high. . We are quite aware that quantity does not necessar.ily bteed quality; but, with all that volume, we are reaching more people with more news _than ev~r ~efore, and consider this no mean accomplishment m VIew of the exceedingly small staff working regularly. . . To coin a ph.rase, we must be domg somethmg rtght (or at least correctly). MARCH 7 1969 ·:Faculty Forum ..... The Drug Report Examined, Critiqued •. · . . By RUTH PARKER ...J Ed. Note: Miss Parker is an Instructor in the Department of Philosophy. There are Ia number of really good features in the report of Special Committee on Drugs and Union Coilege. Most outstanding, it seems to me, are the sections of the report directed to the first of the three charges to the committee, and part of the third--the charges r.elating to education and information, and law enforcement. . The comprehensive infonnation as to what the laws are, and the penalties generally applied where there is leeway, and the degree of enforcement, is infonnatien which should be in the hands of every student, since every student is likely to come in contact with drug users even if he has no interest in drugs himself; and penalties may be applied even where a person has no knowledge or direct involvement in drug use, possession, or traffic, on presumptive evidence. (For example, if he happens to be riding in a car in wWch drugs are found). Since student ignorance and interest are both generally high, students should at least know precisely the possible costs, legal and otherwise, which this interest may lead to. The report provides not only that the costs be made known, so far as legal and medical information may do this, but also that students may satisfy their curiosity about drugs to the fullest legal extent possible, by supplying a special library collection, and encouraging \dialogue\ through \special services.\ This point could be stronger, as the recommendation extends only to extra-curricular classes, whereas many regular classes are appropriate places to discuss particular aspects of drug use. (This latter lack may not be a weakness in the report, however, as the report could be taken as encouragement to the faculty to do just this where it is appropriate.) However, I am very much distrubed by what appears to me to be serious weaknesses in fulfilling the second charge, and part of the third, on general lines of policy and administrative action in relation to abuse. I think I can make my point clearer by contrasting the situation at the undergraduate college I went to. It was located in a state where it was illegal for anyone under twenty-one to have anything to do with alcoholic beverages; parents could be, and were, prosecuted for serving beer to nineteen or twenty-year-old offspring in their own homes. The school, a residential one like Union, periodically searched the dormitories for evidence of possession; and students were expelled on the spot if found to have it. Drunkenness on campus, or in the town during the periods when school was in session, was grounds for probation. Nobody like it, but no one objected because the student knew exactly where he stood. But the Special Committee's report on this aspect of the problem is vague, general, and highly qualified. For example, infractions (of the law!) are nonnally to be treated as disciplinary matters; the Discipline Committee may suspend or expel; secret detective work will not be sanctioned unless... Although the college will attempt to handle all this as an \internal community matter,\ it ' has already been pointed out in the report that it is nothing of the sort. Certainly, administrative officials are on the spot. If they were to search and find drugs, they would have to reportthem, wheras the lucky administrators at my school were free to keep and frink the evidence. Here, the penalties are so savage and so savagely enforced, that most people on the faculty or in the administration would like to avoid any contact with them, however accidental. However, unlike the students, the faculty and administration have both had to take a special oath to uphold the state constitution, which seems to imply that we have a special and additional obligation of a general civic nature, which the students do not have. In addition, it seems to me probably, on the basis of what I hear from my own contacts, that many members of the faculty and administration regard the laws as at least mistaken or unduly stringent, if not utterly irrational 'and unncecessary, even thoLJgh they tend to regard both drug use and law breaking as a far more serious matter than students often do, so that they are inclined to side with common tudent attitudes rather than with general public opinion to some extent. All these factors show that the committee is trying to attain ends which are somewhat contradictory under the circumstaPces: to achieve dialogue, maintain discipline, and avoid (where possible) direct law enforcement. How could these be better adjusted? Dialogue in the purely academic sense is really no problem; but the Corrunittee has tried to include counseling services for involved students under the ·heading of \dialogue\, with \effective action to amend illegal behavior\ as a rider with disciplinary consequences. Perhaps it would be better simply to refer all counseling problems to some appropriate outside individual or agency, rather than to walk the .thin narrow line between collusion with illegality and fulfilling counseling obligations without the concomitant privileges of a doctor, priest or lawyer who has a right to professional confidences whlch he need not divulge. But the most serious lack is a definite scale of penalties for determinate infractions. (Perhaps the committee intends merely to supply guidelines fm the administration to follow in making them up.) The indications of a possible scale, REV OX TEAC AR DUAL SONY SHURE BENJAMIN MIRA CORD PIONEER KENWOOD ALTEC- LANSING BASF TAPE, HEADPHONES, RECORD CLEANERS STEREOSOUND COMPONENT MUSIC SYSTEMS SEE RICH KRAMER 117 FOX 346-8067 where they occur, are not particularly intelligible to me, however. To sum up, it seems to me that the Committee has done a good job of letting students know· where they stand, precisely, in state and federal law; but that it is now up to the administration to make it equally precise where they stand ·~ on campus. By the nature of the case, however, none .of us can expect to be really happy with any feasible solution. Views Drug Report Finds it Generally Excellent- By GRADY c. ARONSTAMM Obviously, the :college can not condome the policy I have outlined due to the legal situation nor can the college overturn the legal ~tuation. My feeling is simply that the college J. community should not be deluded (I am sure the committee did not intend to delude anybody) into thinking that drugs can be openly discussed on a personal level. I did not feel that this was clear in the drug report and this is my principle objection to it. Otherwise. the report was excellent and should be accepted by the college community. Ed. Note: Mr. At:onstamm is Head Resident Advisor in Fox House and former Student Body President. After reading and thinking about the current drug ,report, I would have to conclude that it is a thoughtful, well written and useful document. 1 feel that the college would be well advised to make the drug policy enumerated in the drug report a part of the college social policy. However, I do have some mixed feelings on the content of the report. On the positive side, the idea of giving students opportunities to openly discuss drug use is good, because it helps to prevent drug discussion from being driven underground. On the negative side, 1 feel that much of the discussion that will take place in the future will only prove unsatisfactory to students, because the college can nut really promote open discussion on illegal activity. The truth of the matter is that even with the new drug policy the student can not openly discuss why he should or should not take drugs on personal level. It is fine to have courses, lectures and discussions on drugs; indeed we must have them, but the student who thinks his personal questions will be answered will only be decP.ived. His real questions will only be answered when he can openly admit that he takes or is thinking of taking drugs without fear of repercussions or the knowledge that he will have to curtail hls activities. Frosh Cars •••• Continued from page I House. The lot immediately behind Richmond House may not be used between 8:00 AM and 6:00 PM, Monday through Friday. Cars may be kept in the Schenectady area subject to existing regulations. Violators will be subject to action by the Traffic Court, including fines, and very possibly the right to maintain an automobile at the College will be suspended. 3. Students are not permitted to operate a motor cycle, motor bike, or motor scooter on campus. Students receiVIng financial aid administered by the College may not own a motor vehicle, directly or in directly. 4. Freshmen must have a cumulative index above 2.00 to operate a motor vehicle. 5. All campus traffic regulations must be observed. Particular attention should be paid to speed limits and acceptable areas for parking. Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 61 s.t Year 1n Downtown Schenectady MARC~ Tl ... Gatesn

7, 1969 ..... ...J up to the it stand '~ of the us can with ~ can I have legal college My college ,J. not be ure the to thinking openly level. I clear in is my to it. ort was accepted ... ouse may 8:00 Monday may be area xisting rs will be by the fines, right to at iII be pc rmi tted cycle, or scooter aid College a motor directly. have a hove 2.00 traffic observed. should be and parking. MARCH 7,1969 An Aerial View of Schenectady County. The Campus In March. • • Litter points out way to \Tarzan\ style Fire Escape Ladders. Photos by ··viewpoint \Schene agreed George Clinton, the first governor of New York State, und the petitioners for a college from the frontier counties west of the Hudson River, \(is) in every respect the most suitable and commodious place for a seminary of learning in ·this state, or perhaps in America.\ This agreement must have been read1ecl during the summer; for If the Governor had seen this campus, nestled e:er s<J softly in the Mohuwk vale (would you believe pile-driven noisily into the \1ohawk valery), in March, Union very well may have been established in Ft. Lauderdale. Much as we would like to do so, we can not blame all the scars of this campus on the weather and the construction. Although most students here feel that the beauty of this campus is a significant factor in respect to maintaining not only their pr·ide in the old place, but also their sanity, these same people are a major cause of the wanton mess we have here now. There is no excuse for the heavy student traffic on campus roads. There i~ nu reason fur the s I owly melting snow w reveal mounds of litter and other assorted tidbits. Worst of all, the careless and indiscriminate defoliation that is taking place il totally inexcusable. The huge quantities of rock salt dumped on campus roads and sidcwalb is making the lJ!l: of a Cniun Culkgc ;plant difficult enough without any additional loss of plumage. Hopefully, by Parent's Weekend (traditional clean-up target date), we shall all be able to look around and mutter from behind our supercilious grins, \Union College isn't really ugly. 1 t was just taking a mud-pack.\ George Kaplan On the way to Hoadley House. .\\\\ .. ~- ·'•:.· ·d.· ~?~ College planting program introduces new Japanese Miniature? \There Is No Joy In Mudville'' Gatesmen often neglect this view of hospitable West College. Size 9!-Z celebrity confuses Library Walk with Graumans Chinese Theater.

PAGE 4 MAHCH 7, 1969 . . ' . . Ripley Said Hlmpossible\ But Undaunted P,u blishiers Reveal The Nixon Humor Co ed we~ek. A Vass.a·r View By RAY KRISE, JR. Contrary to the probable expectations of the public, the pages of this book are not blank. That they are not has to mnk as one of Nixon's worst mistakes, third only to most of the things he says between the book's covers. But let the man speak for himself. Remember, now -· wit andhumol': \Richard Nixon suggested a computer to match jobs and the jobless. He called for a 'National Computer Job Bank' and said 'if we can match a boy and a girl for a date with computers, we can also match people for jobs.' , (p. 40) \You know, nobody will believe it, bt:lt I'm really an egghead!\ (p. 48) \1 was in the Navy in the South Pacific, but I wasn't on a P.T. boat. That's why I'm here and not in Washington.\ (p. 88) \Incidentally yesterday, as we were traveling through Muskeg,>n, one teen-ager called out to me and he says, 'I want a date with Tricia.' \Well she's too young to date, we think. Of course, the 14-year-olds won't agree with that, but I think so.'' (p. 99) ''1 have been around the world a total of five times since I left. office in 1961, and my daug11ters have kept me certainly from gettiJ:Jg -· developing any generation gap, I can assure you -- not only my daughters, but their boyfr,iends!\{p. 103~ \Pat and I have the satisfaction that every ·dime that we've got is 11onestly ours. I should say this .. that Pat doesn't have a mink coat. But she does have a respectable Republican cloth coat. And I always tell her that she'd look good in anything.'' (p. 105) \Introducing those on the platform with him at a meeting in Portland, Oregon: 'And this is David Eisenhower. I always run better with an Eisenhower.' \ )p. 107) These quotations have been chosen at random, btl t are completely indicWve of the other hilarious treats awaiting the s oph i.s tic ate d American Legion member at whom this book must be airne d. All the remarks are dated -- in every sense of the word-- so the reader can see for himself the progression/digression (choose one) of the Presidential wit. After having digested the book in one sitting -· it takes abo!lt ten minutes for its 128 pages -- only one thing puzzles me: why did they leave out Nixon's funniest line of all: \I want Spiro T. Agnew for my Vice-President.\? _, Editors Note: The Authoress is an Associate Editor of the Vassar Miscellany News. By LYNNE PECK It was beginning to look like Vassar students were going to have to stay here the rest of the year and try to make the most of the limited coeducation on this campus. There were fears that Yale, Dartmouth, and Princeton were to be the Dnly scho.ols offering week;Jong experiments in coeducation. Now, here's the topper. As coeducation weeks in the Ivy League have become passe, smaller schools are beginniNg to show their inventiveness. Union College students have announced plans for a Coed Week which will offer new challenges to about one hundred to two hundred students from seventeen schools. They hope that students from such schools as Smith, Pembroke, Mount Holyoke, and Vassar will come, because in the past these girls have been so eager to participate in the programs. Big name schools have been successful, and now Union wants to try_ In addition, Albany State and Russell Sage Colleges have been urged to attend to give diversity. Besides new faces at Union's coed week, the co-chairmen, Donald Kessler '71 and Mark Merson '71 have other surprises. The girls will be living in 01 d North Hall, a dorm which has been abandoned because it was \' . . too ol a to be renovated. Another special touch to make the week meaningful will be required classes,. homework, and lectures. 'fhe President will give a speech and attendance will be taken. Of course, the :gi·rls will not object to required classes because the Union students will assign the schedules. Freedom to choose a class is prohibited beca11se some professms do not want the women .to disturb their te.achi n g r:o utine. Although Union has no parietal regulations, the forward- :looking planners propose parietal restrictions for the girls so that no unfortunate incidents occur that could harm future Union coeducation. Mr. Merson gave the dates of the week tentatively as March 31 - April 6. \We really want this week to be a success, but finals are coming up soon and we might not be able to work on plans. We want the girls to apply and then after acceptance, we will notify them when we want them.'' It seems that next year other schools in other areas of the country shoald also offer week-long studies so that those interested could see the country but not lose their important Vassar identity. In fact, it is rumored that next year some students are proposing a 3-point Field Work Credit program. Instead of Comparative Governments, some are advocating studies in \Comparative Coed Weeks.\ The following is a copy of th:e letter sent Miss Peck: Dear Miss Peck, As publicity chairman .for Union College's Co·Ed Week, may I say that I thought your article in the Vassar Miscellany News contained several inaccuracies and I shaH endeavor to correct them. First of all, North Hall is not quite as decrepit as you lead ycmr public to believe. It has long operated as a weekend hotel for ·dates. The place is nice and clean and I would sleep there any time, if they would let me. 'fhe givls will not be required to attend classes. Each girl will be given a schedule listing classes in which she is interested, and for which she has been guaranteed a seat. There is absolutely nothing on this Earth -· or even in Yale (praise God)-· to compel her to follow this avrangement. I ain assuming that you are merely attempting to be facetious when you state the women will have to do homework, as I cannot believe even a Vassar student could :be so naive as to be serious on such a score. As far as the girls being mzde subject t0 parietal regulati{:ms different from the rest of the student body's, I know nothing of this being done whatsoever. That would have to be an edict from Above, i.e., the Administration. It should be noted that Union's Week is tmique in that it is completely in ,the hands of ,the students. rhe Administration has done nothi.ng except say, \Yeah you .~an bring 1 em here.\ For them to step in with restriction on women's rights would, J, feel, be completely absurd. So for:get about it. T11e dates for the Week weve given as tentative because .. as you would have discovered if you had bothered to read an application -- the girls were asked if there were a more optimum date for then to attend. If large numbers respond that an al:temate date is prefferable, then the dates will be changed. This is not .male whim, Lynn.e honey, it is m()ce a show of respect for the .girls; -- and a deference to their :fickleness. Finally, may I say that the old Vassar class showed thr<JtLgh in your references to Albany State and Russel Sage. It js an insecure person who :must promote herself by demoti.ng others. I close by saying I am gratified to see the Vassar paper is liberal-minded enough to :print the opinions of anyone, ev-en minority views. Thank you for both your article and atten tim .. P.S. I love you. Y {)\US, Ray Krise, Jr. Basketcase Productions Calendar Poll? Gets Itself Ready To Roll \Maybe we just have to have something to grumble about in June,\ was how Prof. Patrick Kilburn of the Calendar Committee summed up the poor response to the college calendar poll in last week's FACSIMILE. Independent Basketcase Productions, the organization that hopes to bring important talent regularly to the Union campus, is the product of the work of four freshman, who decided to see if they could accomplish it. When they approached other students with their idea, they received inspiration for the organization's title. Undaunted, this group sent out letters to a number of major artists, and received information about a booking service, headed by Fred Weintraub, owner of the New York \Bitter End\ night club. They contacted this group, and a meeting was arranged in New York City. Two group members went to the booking agent, and learned it was possible to hire Patrick Sky, the folksinger, for $400. Elated, they returned to Union, assured that Patrick Sky would be at Union March I. Inunediately. the group ran into difficulties. It took Dean Malloy eight days to contact the booking agency, and by then Sky could not be had for !\larch 1. Then Dean l\lalloy found his budget could no longer support the concert series. leaving the group without their promised funds. And so, gentle reader, they turn the responsibility of the ~oi11.:crt series over to you. If you wish to support these concerts. you can donate $I, which can Ia ter be traded for a ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· f DARI TREET \ i RESTAURANT i i YOUR CHOICE i • • I CHAR-BROIL STEAK I e VEAl CUTLET e I CHICKEN ... s I 65 I • • I 2049 Van Vranken Ave. 1 • ... FR 7-4261 e 1-·-·-·-·-·-·-l ticket to the first concert, to either Eric Mendelsohn (3 17 Davidson), George Lonsdorf of Richard Nutt (311 Richmond), Jim Ludwig ( 430 West), or Danny Shocket (360 Fox). Noting that \less than 1 00\ ballots had been returned to a box posted in the library, Kilburn said that those which were received were 'about half and half for the 3-3·3 and the 4-14. I would have to call it a Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing In Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar Free Parking SIERRA $175 WEDDING RING· 50 PIZZA Dl 6-9554 111 S Barrett St. T?'- !.!_~·ISTERED k ~~sa. e® DIAMOND RINGS BE:LAIR $62!5 AL.SO $250 TO 2100 WEDDING Rli;G 100 The engagement ring with the flawless center diamond In our store, or any jeweler's store . , . you can't buy a finer diamond ring. See our selection soon .... the name \Keepsake\ iS in the ring and On the tag. Rings enlarged to ohow detail. Trade-M01k Reg, .r--~~ JEWELERS AT 428 STATE STREET PHONE FR 4-0183 fairly scanty and probably inconclusive response,\ Kilburn said. \''m a little bit hard put to draw any conclusions from the response,\ Kilburn said; \student sentiment is not very clear on this.\ The F ACSJMILE poll was designed to sample student opinion on the college calendar for the committee to use in its report to the ;President, which was made la~t Wednesday. The • sctence of being unafraid Did you ever stop to think how fear can affect a person's life? Fear can .be at the very root of problems, even of disease. But no one has to live with fear. U can be overcome by gaining a deeper understanding of God's love for man. Thousands of people today are proving that no fear is too great to be overcome through intelligent prayer. Hear 'The Science of Being Unafraid','' a free, hour-long lecture by Noel D. Bryan-Jones, C.S., of The Christian Science Board of Lectureship. Hearing this lecture may prove a turning point in your life. Christian Science lecture Memorial Chapel, Union College Campus Monday. Marcil 10, at 8:00p.m. Don't leave your l1ead out in the cold. Experienced skiers always keep their t\leads covered on ; the slopes. And they don't wear those bnghtly colored caps and hoods just for the sake of fashion They know that good skiing form beg1ns with a warm head. You see. your body can lose 3 great deal of heat through your scalp And whe:-1 your body is :::o!d. you begin to lose control over the way your rnusc~es move. ; So you tend to make mistakes. And the risk of injury ! is greater. lhars why caps and hoods are more than just fun ' things to wear. By keeping your head warm. they help 1 you keep your cool For the rnost reliable reports on ski conditions in the East, listen to ''Ski Rr ports by ~o:xy\with Roxy Rothafel, the voice of skiing. On WGY Radio 810 in Schenectady-and on other stations throughout the tlortheast. And on your next ski trip, be sure to enjoy Schaefer- tile one beer to have when you're having more than one. Schaefer Brewer~es, New York and Albany, N Y ., Balt•more, Me \) ·. MARCI ~ f',-1 ': • Editor: wr.itte COU'V•e Week t and Mi B) A CCI auth<>r Co-Ed ·· Miscen~ '[ · about r .. '. . created. r We ad: I ! ~ , organiZ ' . 'is s()le1 Your along a. and th. needed jab at' 1 • co-ed 'N '1 We.are 1 will m~ D I. l - '-'! !!' 'il H !:r .. . ' j I ' . ' r s i l ~ - r i • ) i I , ; l . . .; J I ., ) I o IJ \ ·· serious issue_\ ln ' article, Whe conb'o• the th~: and, p be mac Peter certain] and inciden one, financi; Broa<lv; turned bonanz decidec signific; they W• they WI Of cou success hecorne N<l for tryi money- draw, 1 the m invotvir lot wa actors studio. The versi<ln in the diSS()lV~ begins itself si All d:ur: is no dange1 perf om Will SU( \attack· play. w 18Qg (< 18Qg I the pr about 1 heingp H<>V' version. Wall. W ~ ~~ IS .. ._

7,1969 be Neek is in rhe nothing ~an to on feel, be for:get we.De ·· as vered ,jf read an Is were a ruore to respond date is will ot male s m()ce a gi rls; ·- their the thr<JtLgh Albany It js an :must I am ar paper to :print ev-en you for tim .. Y {)\.EfS, Jr. e. . ) . MARCtl 7, 1969 l~s Clarif·ied ·- HThr:ee i:n the Attic'' Te·rmed S~eciond-rate La~c:king Cl-ass and Style . . Editors Note: 'f.be foliQwing was wr<itten follovwing a phone conversation between Coed Week Co-Chairlll!an Don Kessler · and Miss Peck Thursday evening. By DON KE:SSLER and ,pHJL GA>LDSTON Accmding to Lynne Peck, au1hor of the avl!iicle concerning Co-Ed Week -i::n· the Vassar ' Miscellany News,. '\We are sorry '[ about the misunderstanding r .. I . • created by last 'Week's article.\ r We admire Union,s iniative in I , organizing a Co-Bd Week which ' · ' •is se>lely manage d by students. Your good intentions carfie \. along at the wrong time for you \- 1 1 :: . ;md the right tmne for us. We needed a vehicle with which to jab at Vassar students who go to , . co-ed weeks to get out of classes. , 1 We are sorry it came out and we 1 will make amends by writing a serious article clarifying the . 1 issue.\ 1 . In answer to Miss Peck's article, Don Kes:.sler and Mark Merson stated she was acting under a number of false assumptions. Men,. not women will be housed in N<>rth College: Women wJII be permitted to ~ttend any class they are 1nte>rested in. The class assignments are merely a means of maximizing participatiort in the Week. Women will not be arbitrarily assigned to classes, rather they will be placed in classes representative of the fields they indicate on their applications. The date was to be contingent upon which week was most convenient for the applicants. Having investigated this, the Committee has decided on the week: of April 14 to 18 and has notified all who are concemed. A press release, clearly stating tbe objectives and obligations .()f the Week, is being sent to all schools which have expressed an interest. Kessler and Merson thanked Concordiens:is for .the opportunity to relate these later developments to the College community. By LANCE F ALDUCCIWITZ In tb.e be ginning, Mike Nichols created \The Graduate,\ and it was good. It was also commercieill>. AlP, a movie studio that produced the surfing movies, were never interested in good movies, but are fascinated with the commerical. So they began woiR:. -on \Three In The Attic.\ They contacted Steven Yafa, a young scenariast, to take a script he had written two years ago, alld update it. 'Jlh.en they began to find a director who could comJ>letely imitate Mike Nichols. The search ended in the hiring of Richard Wilson. What they carne up with was an interesting picture that threatens time after time to be a really fille movie. The plot revolves ar0und a normal college 19 year old stud. He falls in love with one girl, but can't resist to see twa others. So incensed are these t:JJ.ree, that they keep th.e poor boy~ Paxton Quigley, a captive, and try to love him to death. Then, like \The Graduate,\ there is a ''wild\ happy ending. Unfortunately, the picture never achieves the class or ·style (its lack of style is probably its downfall) of \The Graduate.\ There are some good points to the fum. ChJistopher Jones does a fme acting job as Paxton Quigley. Yvette Mineux is beautiful, and is a creditable actress. The score, by Chad Stuart, is fun, and is well performed by Chad and Jere~w (to be misread \Simon and Garfunkel\). The college students look and dress like coHege students, .and the ~ernac~lar is very contemporary, If a btt self-conscious (in this particular the movie is much. better than its model). AU in all, if you don't mind the second rate, go see ''Three In The Attic,\ now showing at Proctor's on State Street. If you do go, make sure you arrive early for the excellent :short, \Sky Over Holland.\ It is j»ictorially magnificaent and :ttnique. M aratj Sade Seen as Great Success; Movie Termed Exciting, Profound l - By ALANMELL When a pla:y that brings conb'oversy and revolution to the theatre appe;ars, it is logical and, perhaps, necessary that it be made into a :;motion picture. Peter Weiss' Marat/Sade is j:[ certainly such a controversial • I· and revolution-ary play--and j . , , I r i ) . \' ) I 4 IJ inciclentally, a highly successfui one, both u·tistically and financially. When it played on Broadway a few years back it turned out to be a financial bonanza (the producers had decided to stage 3.t because of its significance, feeili11g sure that they W<Juld nevec see the money they were putting into it again). Of course, once its box-office success Was established, it had to hecorne a movie. N<> one owes any apologies for trying to turm this Broadway money-maker into a cinematic draw, for it is certainly one of the most exciting, audience- involving movies around, but a lot was sacrific:ed when the actors left the stage for the studio. The power of the stage versi()n of Marat/Sade lies largely in tbe fact that the theatre diss.()lves as sool1 as the play begtns and the audience finds itself sitting in aa insane asylum. ~1 ciuring the pedorrnance there IS no getting a'Way from the danger that the inmates performing a play-within-a-play .. will suddenly bu.-st forward and attack the audie11-ce. Viewing the play. we are tramsp<>rted back to !80S (or, rather, the scenerio of 180S has been transported to the present) wllen this play about the French Revolution is being p erforrned. H <>:wever, ill the movie version, the screen becomes a Wall. We are n<>t .an audience at the as y 1 urn of Charenton. Instead, we are an audience watching an audience watching the inmates. The fear for our safety is gone, a physical barrier, as well as 160 years. separate us from the asylum and so our involvement is reduced. But .don't let any of this keep you from seeing the filin (if you missed it wllen it was shown at the C<Jlo11y Theatre this week--and you probably did, since the theatre was nearly empty--you will have another chance when it is screened in SS 016 next term) because you will not get very many opportunities to see a company of actors {England's Royal Shakespeare Company, who did the stage version too) who work together so perfectly to bring out the madness of the inmates they portray, while they simultaneously drive home the doctrines of the historical figures whom the inmates themselves ~re playing in the play-within-the-play. Marat/Sade is the story of the anarchist Jean-Paul Marat, who lived in the sewers of Paris during the French Revolution. He wants the revolution must be continued forever, for fear that an end of it will bring back the old conditions, t11e only change being a new aristocracy to dominate the rna!lses. In 1808, when Nap()leon vvas at the height Of power, the Marquis De Sade, an inmate of the asylum, is supposed t() have written this play. Contint!ous attacks are made on post-revolutionary society (and we are still in that society), but De Sade is supp<>sed to have provided a narrator who, time and again, soothes the audience (both the one in the asylum itself, which is made up of the very a:rist<>crats that are being attacked, and the one in the theatre) by p()inting out that the characters being portrayed are from a time gone by, when the masses were primitive. ••we are civilized now,\ he says. and so all the attacks his fellow inmates have made are supposed to be patched over. Nevertheless, of course, the point that finally impresses us is that times haven't c~anged, that the revolution was not an historical phenomenon fixed in a JlOint in the past, but a consequeace of many social factors that still exist today. The right combination of circumstances and we will have another French Revolution on our hands. The movie, indeed, does end with the asylum breaking in to its own mini-re-volution. Incidentally, Peter Weiss' second play-, The Investigation, which deals with th.e extennination of Jews under the Nazi regime, makes essentially the same point: the use of concenirati()n camps was not a past event fixed in time, but an action tha.t could happen again, given the proper conditions (who would use the gas chambers on whom being entirely besides the point, just as the exact sight of the next French Revolution is irrelevant). It might be best to read Marat/Sade before seei11g it. . There i> a great deal of confusion on the screen (there was more on stage, but the use of dose-ups ha~ cleared some of the chaos up, which is not necessarily an advantage in a play like this). There is also or an abundance of symbols, such as the pouring of red, blue, white and black paint, Marat's skin disease and France's -·-·-·-·-·-·---·-·---............ ·- DEWITT'S simultaneous decay, etc. A quick reading of the play might help bring some of this into focus. In case anyo11e feels like memorizing a mouthful of words, the full title of the movie is, actually, \'The Persecution A11d Assassination of Jean-Paul Narat As Performed By The Inmates Of The Asylum of Charenton Under the Direction Of The Marquis De Sade. C£!1, DR£\Y,CO., ROC~., N.Y. PAGE 5 BLITHER Any student interested in being recruiting representative for Co-Ed Week at other campuses during vacation should contact Don Kessler or Mark Merson at 372·3574. Representatives will appear at campuses to arouse interest and answer questions about Co-Ed Week. Advance publicity and meeting times will be arranged with the respective schools through .Dean Malloy's office. 1 Applications for all types of financial aid (scholarship, loan, and employment) in 1969-70 will be available beginning Monday, March 10, at the Student Aid Offiee, first floor, Old Gym Hall fJe>m 9:00a.m. to noon and from 1 :30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Completed applications must be returned not later than May I. Since a Parents' Confidential Statement must be furnished, it is advisable to secure the necessary papers prior to leaving for spring recess and take them home to parents at that time. R. Gordon Bingham Director <>f'Student Aid Applications are available for the Editorship of the Freshman Record. The forms can be obtained at the Student Activities Office and must be returned by March 21st. Applications for Resident Adviser are available in the Dean of Students Office. All freshmen, sophomores, and juniors are eligible. All forms must be retunted by March 20. Applications for the junior member of the Tax Committee are available in the Dean of Students Office. Applications for Orientathm Group Leader are available in the Dean of St1:1dents Office. All freshmen, sophomores, and juniors are eligible. Applications must be returned to the Dean's office by March 14. Subscriptions for the new concert seri.es, sponsored by International Basketcase Productions, and featuring Patrick Sky in the first concert, may be purchased for $1 from Eric Mendelssohn--317 Davidson; George Lonsdorf·- 311 Richmond; Jim ludwig--430 West; and Daniel Shocket--360 Fox. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady D1 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cockt.:!il Bor Now's The Time To MARRY ME T T Cafeteria and Tap ROfJIII ... a little more exciting! ! Da\'id and Julie have done it. · liow About You. Tricky Dickie · ~\ly Y<>·\lr Wedding Ring at Maurice raubart & Saris Jewelers 1 166 Jay St. • ' I Serving Union for 3 gen.er'!tions . • T • 118 • 120 JAY STRffT . i-·-·-·---·-·-·-·-·---.- ..... ·- Fine Food and. Legal Bevecrages

. I & GoGo Werlin You Flyer Concordy Sports Union Invitational Track Sat. . ' PAGE 6 Coaches Favor New Frosh Rule scheduling decision on what 'opponents chose to do about non-varsity competition. By LEN SIMON Reprinted from the Schenectady Gazette by pennission. The coaching staff at Union College appeared strongly in favor of a recent ECAC edict allowing freshmen to compete in all varsity sports except football and hockey, although most of the coaches weFe not certain exactly what form their squads would take next season. The rule change, passed by a 74-68 margin, goes into effect next September, except in national championships where it becomes effective immediately. Foes Use Frosh A common reason cited by every coach for favoring the change was that several Union opponents already use freshmen in varsity sports because of small enrollment and the change would put them on an equal footing. Bruce All~son, lacrosse coach, expressed mixed emotions with respect to the change. Many of his best stickmen enter Union with little or no lacrosse experience, and non-varsity competition is basic to their development. Allison saw one possibility for next season to be one big squad, including 40 to 50 players regardless of class. Separate varsity and junior varsity matches would be scheduled, and players could move from one squad to the other depending upon the strength of competition. Allison did not expect many freshmen to play varsity lacrosse, but said that· a select few could have helped him in the past few years. Gary Brown, soccer coach, was happy with the change and saw the possibility of several frosh helping his hooters next season. However, he will be forced to make some tough decisions in inviting. certain freshmen back for practice, which begins before classes in September. Baseball Coach Art Lawrence will have one problem taken off his hands by the tules change. Union has had no freslunan team for several years and the lack of a team may have cost Lawrence the services .of some players who chose to go to another school rather than si.t out a year. It will also give the players one more yea:r ·of experience if they can break into the lineup as a freslunan. Ron Coleman, coaching cross-country and track, saw the biggest help coming in the area of depth. Garnet track teams of recent vintage have had a few outstanding performers, but didn't get enough second and third places to win a proportionate number of meets. Coleman said he would base his Football coach George Flood, who will become athletic director in September, said that he voted for the measure mainly because our opponents were already using freslunen. It will not directly affect his football program, although he conjectured that one reason he may have lost a few fine prospects was the lack of freshman baseball, as the athletes in question were two or three sport stars. All of this, of course, is conjecture, since the proposal must be .passed by the Faculty Council before it . becomes effective. Although freshmen are now permitted to play varsity sports, Union must still change its policy with regard to freshmen and that change must come from the Facu1ty Council. Swimming Coach Bob Benson appeared happiest about the change, as he will derive the greatest immediate benefit. Benson will enter a medley relay team composed of Steve Werlin, Burt Y ankiver and freslunen Gary Needell and Vin Sinatra in the college division national championships in late March. He also welcomed the change for upcoming dual meet seasons, but mentioned the need for some type of junior varsity competition for the ·~tate bloomer.\ H.ovey,i Case. \f.op ·ln · P.in. Races . ' . . .··- ·. . .. By GA.RY PREVOST Donald Hovey, the defending champion, rolled a 646 series to lead the qualifying round of the second annual All-College Singles Bowling Tournament. In the first round of the finals which will take place Monday, Is This Hockey? By BILL HOLLERAN In the wake of last Saturday's hockey game in which the Hockey Club tied Utica College 4-4 in a bitterly fought contest, a few words need to be said about the unsportsmanlike conditions under which the game was played. It was these conditions which above all prevented a Garnet victory. The Utica College Hockey Club is physically big and strong, and knows it. They seem to go out of their way to intimidate smaller rivals, and unfortunately the Garnet fell into the latter category on Saturday. They were viciously pummelled throughout the game, but it would not have been so bad if the Utica b()dy-work had been of legal variety. Instead, the Pioneers resorted to hockey's most vicious violations to stop the faster Union players: cross-checking, slashing, spearing, and highsticking. Miller, Glidden Hurt Ga:rnet casualties were serious because of Utica's penchant for violence. Rick Miller, who has played steady, excellent defense on the Union backline thus far, was hospitalized Saturday night with cracked ribs, a damaged kidney, and a damaged spleen, inflicted when he was speared in the side during the second period. Mfller faces the prospect of an operation to correct the damage, and it may be quite a while before he plays hockey again. Jim Glidden, the team goal-scoring leader so far, was whacked in the face with a stick late in the same stanza, which shattered his glasses, cut him about the eyes, and ca;ne close to seriously damaging his eyesight. Body contact is an integral part of the game of hockey, but what the Uticans dished out on Saturday was a disgrace to the game. Utica College's Hockey Club would probably fare well in a bar-room brawl, but it is doubtful whether they can play clean hockey. After a recent game against BrockPort State, which the Uticans lost 10-4, the team and the fans engaged in a violent brawl with the Brockport skaters. The Garnet almost fell prey to the same fate after Saturday's game, when Utica fans manhandled Union players and Utica skaters tried to forcibly enter the Union dressing room. A wild brawl was only prevented by the intervention of Utica's athletic director. It is perhaps interesting to note that the Utica coach did not make Jl move to stop his players. Thus, it is clear that even the Boston Bruins, who are no strangers to the penalty box themselves, could probably take lessons from the Utica College Hockey Club in how to play dirty hockey. The Gamet skaters are no doubt called ••turkeys\ around the Utica Campus after Saturday's game, but the feeling that the Dutchmen hold for the Pioneers could. probably not be put into print. ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILI.AGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at HoHie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS a·· Lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 lb.------------ .25 4 lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 lb.------------ .35 DRYERS 30 lb. __ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 10 Min. ____ . _ _ _ _ _ _ . 1 0 OPEN- MON.-TO FRI. 8:00A.M. TO 9:00P.M. SATURDAY 8:00A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) If YOU HAVE NEVEt HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN iET YOU WILL BE AMAZED March 10, at 3:30, at the Boulevard Bowl, Hivert wukk face Rich Swan, who qualified with 560. Other first round matches and qualifying scores are: Ken Labarge (573) vs. John Stalker (526) Frank Fusick (603) vs. Dick Marchant (540) Jeff South (593) vs. Andy Levanthal (532) Al Case (603) vs. Ross Fritschler (554) Mark Zubres (577) vs. Sandy Williamson ( 5 31) Stan Segal (635) vs. Greg Ellis (558) Abby Stillman (574) vs. Gary Prevost (529) Segal rolled the highest game, 260, in the qualifying round which drew 60 entries. A year ago, Hovey defeated Ellis 214-193 in the first singles event. Recently Hovey highlighted the area bowling scene when he rolled a 296-726 series in the Schenectady Press Tournament, which helped him to gain three first-place positions in the three-month long tournament at Boulevard Bowl ending in May. League Standings With three weeks remaining in the Dutch Classic Bowling League, close races in the team and individual championships are developing. Team No. 9, comprised of Bruce l\Tvrthrup Pete Van Lund, Tf\m Benedict, and John Irwin has a two-point lead over Team No. 2, sparked by Greg Ellis and Jeff South. In third place, five points behind, is Team No. 4 led by AI Case and Gary Prevost. Team No. 4 has a chance at making up the defecit in the next two sessions. Al Case, last year's individual champion with a 189 average is leading a tight race this year with a 186 mark. In second place is Greg Ellis at 185, followed by Jim McBride, 184, Gary Prevost, 183, and Bruce Northrup, 182. McBride recently Down to L.ouis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. set a Dutch. Classic record by hitting three consecutive 600 series to move into contention. The highest average in the loop actually belongs to Don Hovey. Hovey is averaging 192 but h.e cannot meet the 2/3 game requirement to take the title, having only re-entered school in January. A1 Case rolled a 269 single last week to break the DCL's all-time high single record. Case, in rolling nine consecutive strikes, eclipsed Sand:y Williamson's old record of 265. Greg Ellis holds down the high triple slot with a 635 mark, followed closely by Gary Prevost and Case who have scored 626. As the Bowling intramurals enter the final stages, one league championship is decided and the other is very much up in the air. The Independents have claimed the National League title for the third consecutive year, completing the regular :season undeafeated, 32-0, for the second year in a row. Delta Chi currently leads the American division with a 21-7 mark but Sigma Chi, now 17-7, can force a playoff if it gains a four-point sweep of DU in its final match. Hoop lntras In in tram ural basketball news, Delta Phi remains undefeated. Their closest game was a two-point win over t}le Independents. Beta and DU are tied in the other league with one loss apiece. A playQff is scheduled for Monday night, with the finals to be played on Wednesday night. The final night for' .the Independent intramurals is Tuesday, with two teams tied for first with 5-l records. The deadlock is between the International Student Team, which has only lost to the West College Frosh who have in turn only been topped by 1 South Fox. A unique place to dine. with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 MARCH 7, 1969- . ·, VOL.9 Swim In State \ Meet; RelaY- , Co: Makes NCAA. This weekend six varsity Garnet swimmers are in Syracuse· battling for State Championship honors. The number of Union entries this year has been cut down hec&.use of pre-finals studying conflicts. Former medal winners Mike Gow, Jim Newton, Mike Rone, Mike Horwath, and John Horwath are among those who are· unable to attend. Wel'lin Defends Crowns Quality is expected from the mermen who are going, however. \ De_fending his ·1 00 and 200 yard butterfly crowns is co-captain Steve, Werlin, who also swa]n the 200 fly in the Small College Nationals last year, and hopes to ·do the same this season. Burt Yankiver, who placed second in the 200 freestyle and fourth in the 200 individual medley last year as a freshman, will be the workhorse jhis weekend: competing in the 100, 200, and 1,650 yard freestyle events. · Co-captain Kevin Hoben, who placed in both the 50 and 100 yard freestyle a year ago, is again entered in the same events, with hopes, of improving his standings this year. Coach Robert Benson has high hopes for junior Dave Seward, who is entered in the 50 and 100 freestyle, plus the 400 yard freestyle relay, along with Yankiver, Hoben, and Werlin. ., Bob Szatrowski, who placed third in the 200 butterfly as a freslnnan last March, will compete in both the 100 and 200 yard butterfly alongside Wedin this weekend. Star diver Harvey Richmond, defending a three- meter dive medal, will have to perform without teammate Mike Rone, who took a pair of seconds in last season's competition. Richmond, who rounds out the Garnet entries, is figuring on another medal at three meters, and may make, it a pair, with the second coming at one meter. Medley Relay to Nationals With ehlp from a recently passed NCAA ruling, the post-season prospects are now bright. Wednesday,.the medley relay combination of Gary Needell (60.0), Vince Sinatra (1 :05.3), Werlin (55.2), and Yankiver (50.8) qualified for the Nationals with a titne of 3:50.3, just seven tenths of a second under the qualifying point. A recent ' decision allowing freslunan to compete with varsity swimmers allowed Needell and Sinatra to round out the quartet, and make the trip to Springfield College March 20 for the big one. .. ~Fo1 \In ~ Union C and dining; $120 a ye 1969. Preside announcing College do ~ tuition and a year, fc room dep, eliminated Dr. Mru: types of a $90 for ne , amounts t< The boost said, by a on dormito ) \We ar~ rising cc ·· -~ president s in such dormitorie: away mom ~ the educ1 college.\ During college los ·¥' space in c total of $5 operations J year point through JL $66,908. attributed ) account fc for dorrnit1 The $11 ... charges, to result of l charges, D1 Unim MODEL2I '• . \ Even v total basi< room, anc below th ... l(j comparal It is, of course, our VI-but- toned blazer. Six buttons, strategically placed, punctu- ate tailoring that's the best. Nicely defined at the waist, high vented, and available in your choice of shades and springweight hopsack or flan- nel. Slip into one, today. © >..1' Northeast. $515 for 1 .- basic cost Some con Bowdoin, ''Th Union required t1 ,. 'll education effective spring ten The 1 31 resoluti \partici] education tl1e fresh lit \' two-day-p conductec ., Under ,, fitness te~ entering unable to on a nati ( 1\ for a rna physical d (\9 All stu and five 1 enrolled course fot • ~ A stu demonstr: in two r choice. T

