1969 Founded at Union College 1877 VOL. 99, NO. 22 PRICE TWENTY CENTS SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, DECEMBER 3,1969 Reporter Admitted To Faculty Council but the We, do Martin Breaks Tie: Seniors Must Take Most Finals physical education discontefl t with the short notice given led to a further motion on May 6 that the implimentation of this change be delayed until this year. concensus that it was wiser in this year of extensive e xp erimenta tion with the format of the major field exams that the suspension of most finals remain. 'I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I \ I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I By NEILS. KRAMER President Harold C. Martin cast the tie-breaking vote yesterday afternoon as the Faculty Council decided that seniors taking comprehensive exams must take final exams in all courses except those in their major field during the term in which comprehensive exams are given. The Council also admitted a student reporter for the first time in its history, scuttled a proposed calendar revision, and firmed up the legislation limiting the Martin Explains Budget: Large Loss Inescapable by LOUIS SNITKOFF President Harold C. Martin, speaking last night in Davidson Lounge, projected the deficit for the 1969-70 to be $530,293. \There is no way of escaping the fact that p r iva t e co Jl.e g e s. . are money-losing institutions,\ he said. Dr. Martin cited several factors contributing to the deficit, which wm reach a new high this year. Administrative costs increased substantially this year due to the re-assignment of R. Gordon Bingham as Special Assistant to the President, and the addition of RUSH RESULTS In the first round of fraternity bidding, which ended on November 24, 183 of 505 freshmen, or 36% of the freshman class, were matched with fraternities. This compares with 208 freshmen (48%) in last year's freshmen class who got bids on the first rush. The relatively low number of pledges may be attributed to a short rush period, a larger number of freshmen and a trend in recent years away from joining fraternities. The first rush, which began on October 15, was nearly one month shorter than last year's. The (12%) drop in percentage from last year also seems to be part of a trend in recent years which has seen fratertity membership decrease considerably. Mrs. Sheila J. Beame as assistant Dean of Students. Increased dormitory rent, he said, was necessitated by a large deficit last year, caused by the need to repair extensive damage. Expensive Athletics Nearly one-fifth of the current dificit is caused by the inter-collegiate athletic pl'Ogram which costs the college more than $100,000 a year. President Martin also blamed declining endowed scholarship income for the deficit. He attributed a steadily declining number of alumni gifts to inflation, campus riots, coeducation and the agitation against ROTC. Same Priorities Martin asserted, however, that the College's priorities in spending its money over the last four years have not changed. Education and general sources which include tutition, gifts and grants, and sponsored research, account for roughly 80% of the C allege's annual income. Dormitory and Dining Hall revenue contribute 12%, while scholarship grants and other sources account for 7%. Consequently, intructional and research expenses are 78% of the total expense budget, while Dormitory upkeep is nearly 15%. I ~ ·\· The two largest houses, Phi Epsilon Pi and Beta Theta Pi were each matched with only 11 freshmen, as opposed to 25 and 24 respectively last year. Next year's tutition hike of $300 is expected to yield $5 40,000 of increased revenue, Martin said, to help offset the rising deficit until 1972-73, when another raise will be necessary. I .. requirement. The original clecision to require all seniors taking comps to also take final exams, outside of their major the term in which comps are given, was made last March 11. Subsequent student ·~:c:.~ ·,l Retiring Concordy editor Neil S. Kramer putting together his last issue as Editor-in- Chief yesterday evening. Kramer Retires, Pair To Rep I ace Editor-1 n -Chief This issue marks the retirement of Neil S. Kramer as editor-in-chief of Concordiensis. In an election held at the newspaper's offices in Bronner Houser last night, William M. Ouzer and Henry G. Fein were elected the new co-editors. Kramer, who has been editor since April of this year, has worked on the paper since coming to Union in 1966. He served as assistant managing editor and managing editor, the post currently held by Fein, before assuming the editorship. On Leave While studying education and rural poverty in Mercer County, West Virginia as part of his junior year . comprehensive education project, Kramer was on leave from the paper. Commenting after the election, Kramer said, \I hope I can be as much help to the new editors as former editor Rich Patterson was to me.\ Patterson also leaves the paper after this issue. The executive editors Ouzer and Fein, both Juniors, will assume editorial responsibilities on January 5. Steven Pierce was also a candidate for the post. Both Center I divisions voted overwhelmingly in their plenums earlier this week to maintain the suspension for this year as well. It was their Senate Told No Pass-Fail Decision Now President Harold C. Martin said recently that there is no possibility of the pass-fail proposal being voted on this term according to Don Kessler, President of the Student Senate. Kessler, reporting to the Senate last night on a recent meeting with President Martin, also asid that he had turned down a senate request that the campus flag be flown at half mast for the duration of the war in Vietnam. Not Political The college is an educational, not a political institution, and flying the flag at half mast for such a purpose moves the college in the direction of becoming a political institution. To protect free discussion on campus, the college as a whole should not take positions on political issues, though individuals themselves may, Kessler reported the President as saying. The senate also approved a revised pass-fail proposal recommended by the Curricular Affairs Committee. The proposal permits a student to take two electives per year outside his major, but not more than one per term, on pass-fail. ACAC A new Senate body, The All College Academic Council (ACAC) committee was also approved. Its purpose is to explore the possibility of establishing an ACAC to deal with campus curricular affairs in the same manner that the All College Council (ACC) deals with non-curricular campus affairs. The ACAC was first proposed in a Concordiensis editorial on April26, 1968. Charles S. Olton led the opposition to the maintenance of the suspension, arguing that most of the revised comps formats did not interfere with a senior's course prepartion, that comps reform had specifically aimed at removing this interference, and that at least 37% of the students taking comps would be finished approximatedly in the first four weeks of the term, and all would be finished by the eighth week of the term in which the exams were given. The representatives of Divisions Ill and IV explaining they thought it inappropriate to make a policy they did not have to live with abstained from the vote on the issue, none of their departments give major field examinations. The Center representatives and he two deans diveded 4-4, leaving the deciding vote to President Martin. His vote against the motion to suspend last March's decision means that all seniors taking comprehensive exams will be excused from final exams only in the department administering the major field exam. Last spring's legislation revising the College's physical education requirem~nt fai:letl to state minimum requirements, then intended to inclusion, still had to be met before graduation. These included one term of physical fitness classes for those scoring below the ·50th o/o-ile on national tests, a water survival test, and proficiency in two carry-over sports. An emergency proposal to clear. up the wording in the 1 e gislation was passed unanimously . A proposal from the President's office to consider r~Jvising the academic calendar did not lead to any Council action. None of the division chairmen reported any support for interrupting winter term classes with a two week vacation. Only a more fundamental change in the calendar would solve whatever problems the present trimester system involves, it was concluded. The Council voted 6-4 with four abstentions to admit representatives of the student media. Reporters will not be admitted when the Council meets in executive session, however. 3 -'

I I l l .) \ iPAGE 2 DECEMBER 3, 1969 .. --- - ---- ·--- In Collision '\Vt·' han· rwver been :'anguine about tlH· iustitu tion of fNll' time dodoral. programs at l 1 nion College . .\s thl'ir fii'::>l Ltnn h<·n· t'OllH's lo a close our tli.;<pliet mounts lwnms<' tlwn· has bct'll no l'V·idewT of their c\.istt·nt·c lwn· ·· and that i.s alwa~ :-;a dangerous sign. Letters To The Editor Wt• lHtV<' lwt'll guarantt>t>d that tlw ~ruduate progratn:' \iH Hot lw a drain on College ftmtk h11 t our douhb rn nain. The l'\. ~H'IJsc lnHlgt'l for th<· Collt'~t· has lH't'll ··fimwd ttp\ --so mudt so that young l'tH'Ilily nH·ndJ<'rs liD l(mgn t•njoy !Ill' ht•JJd'i t of i'r<'<' sllltl t'lll bahy sitters finaJH·t•d through granl·iH-aid fm1d:->. :J?nhaps ITion· omiiwus in tht> st·uHII'l)llll ,,,. ha1 t' pi('ik<·d up ,. oil< ·t•rni ng u nc w t•m pha::;is on faeul L ~ n•::-;tiWTh as a criteria for prornotions aud t<·nurc. We httW het·n treated to no slalt'nwnt In th<· administration or thl' tmsl<'t's on this mat!t•r. but ·Llw t'lident·t• should sh m-v up ill the llalll<'s of thosr• f<wttlty .nwl:lllwrs who are not; lwn· in the years Lo t·onw. rlw qtwstion of fat·Hlty n·st·ardl is a prim<' t''\.amplt• of the t·la:-;h of thl' slud<·nt inh•n•:-;l and till' institutional in ltT<':'t at llw Col leg<'. It i:-; not in tht' intn<':-;1 of tho~t' sludn.t Is hn<' IIO\\ lo lwgin gradttalt• pwgrams. lwl'all~<· <Ill) motw~ or an~ rqmtation that tlw~ ltring to till' Culkgt' will 110! lw fdt for many year~. p<'rhaps a:' long a:-: a tkradl'. The stwlt-11b hl'rt' 110\\ Ilia\ obtain some lwm·fi t' from tlw ( :oUc<rt• 's <rro\vinu· 1'1' !.Httation wlwn ~ ~ ~ l.ht·y an· alumni L<'ll ~ <'ars lwnt·t>. hut tlwir t'\.perit•nt·t· at lnion will not haw het'll l'nrit·ht•nP<L lndt•t•d. tlw grwl.ua k prograllls rqm·scnl a drain of so i'ls on the in:-;li tution wnv. In tht> long run. full tim<' graduul<' ~lwly tna) ind<·<'d pr<JVI' itsl'lf a lwnl'fit to the College. Graduall' study i:-; billt•tl as rcprest·nting tlw College's best lwpc for surviYal a~ tht• post-World War II Lab: boom pa:-;:-:t·s 011 and llw ~Uttt• l'niwrsity of \t>w York system grtms and grows lllltl grows. But tht' intl'rcst of tlw stu(knb at lnio11 d(·uutnds that the~ ket·p dose <H't·ount 11f tht•st• dodoral pr<J~ra ms and tlwir t'fft·l't on utHIPrgradual<' Lea<\hing. lllY-WIIITf; OW:T UNION .~@~ (F@(R{jg~ 1 First, take 20 years and learn this intricate tool' Human Interest Regarding Employment (H.I.R.E.) is seeking f() cllange this picture. If you are interested in helping HIRE, please contact Alan levine Union College Box 717 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 372-3708 To the Students of Union College: I would like to thank the students of the Union College Co Hl m unity who have wo rkecl so diligently and expressed themselves so Why Frats To the editor: This is in :.mswer to the article in last Tuesday's Concordy, \Are Frats Dying'!\ AI though the statement '\God is Dead\ is not the central theme of his article, Mr. Cherson draws .a parallel between the decline of fr:.vternities and the well publicized death of God. I do not wish to attack the usc of this particular a nalugy hut rather to question the validity of the declaration '\God is dead.'' Because Mr. Cherson has searched his own intellect ami found no room for God is hardly reason to doubt His existence. We often talk as though God is our creation rather then we His. An individual is being very shortsighted and selfcentered in doubting the presence of something that is beyond his imagination and realm of experience. We apparently believe that we have the ultimate hunlen of the choice in determining our own destiny · the be lief in free will. But the choke which we see is very supreficial in comparison with the t.crnal life that Christianity offers us. Christianity includes this belief in free will just as it includes those people who subscribe to other religions. Thus it is not really our decision as to whether God is \dead\ or \alive\. since the ultimate promise of Christianity - eternal life. is the right of all - Catholics~ Jews. Buddhists. believers. nonbelievers. and even the \intellectually aware to which Mr. Cherson refers. Paul Sumner '71 PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE. I B \l ~ ,. I <' <' t r i ,. t} fH'I\ ri tl'r. Equipp<·d with Cn·t·k attd \lath ;o;vllllJOk )our dwil't' o f t y p ,. s t v It' . ExptTit'll<Td Ill IIH'si:-; I~ pin~. Pil'k. up and d ,. I i \ ,. r v . C a II 489-6978 a~y time. MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts donE: by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap· pointm ents not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 37'74010 feelingly in their opposition to the war. The act·ivit ies of students across the nat ion have testified to the value of massive-non-violent protest so derided hy those on the leJt and the right who cry violence as the only solution to the nation's iHs. Let no one say that our protest has nut beeH heard. One of tl1e g r .e at t r u t h s o f t he nH.:>r:.Horium observances is the growing involvement of the broad moderate comn~unity. The new politics encompasses a variety of activities~ among them a critical awareness of our nation's s0cial ills. and a passion to work toward their resolutioN. Moratorium Day and the March on Washington were not merely is o I at e d happenings. Their success in bringing all those in oppositjon to the war 1 ogc thcr foreshadows the success of the Moratorium Days to come until the war is over. We aH dream of peace. We want it NOW! Sincerely Yours, Euguene H. Nickerson Nassau County Executive libe Hours · Frida:y, Decemb~r 12 X:30a.m.- 5:00p.m. Saturday & Sunday, De12ember 13 & 14 Clnsed Monday-Friday. December 15-ll) l) :00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Saturday & Sunday. December 20 & 21 Closed Monday & Tuesday, December 22 & 23 lJ:Q(.) a.m.-5:00p.m. Wednesday, December 24 lJ:OO a.m.· 12:00 nuon ThUisday. December 25 · Thursday, January I Friday, January 2 Saturday, January 3 Sunday, J :.muary 4 Monday, January 5 Closed 9:00a.m.- 5:00p.m. Clllsed 6:UO p.m.· 10:00 p.m. Regular holll s resumed The Night Study will be closed during this time whenever the library is dosed. Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranken THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTE~S HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. LL~IER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at HoHie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS ,8 lbs. $2.00 12lb. --·-------- .30 ;4 lb. Min . Sl.OO 20 lb ... ·-···---- .35 DRYERS 30 lb ....... _____ .50 lOMin. 10 Open Mon.·Fri. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M.· Sat. B A.M. to 5 P.M. Closed sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZU> ~EWEST LU~CH 72 5 Albany Street I Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE i~ - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES » - TAKE·OUT ORDERS ·- Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenedady Since 1921 1 1 . 1 ' Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M. ·2 A.M. F ri .-Sot. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.·l A.M. DE is I Ye sft. stt fr1 Fr ha A1 sp fir of th W< or su ca Ol fo th cl ar ca D vi d( ge y h< b 31 ll

1969 d a their the were ted ;s in in war the rium tar is ~.We ours, ~rson utive ----, .m. .111. .111. 11llll11 .m. p.m. tmed I ----1 JT STED II over E .30 .JS .50 _j I 1 A.M. >' DECEMBER 3, 1969 Editor's note: Ray Ahearn is participating in the Junior Year A broad Program and is studying in Delhi, India. By RAY AHEARN Spending one's junior year studying in India can be both fru:strating a11d exciting. Fru strati on s encountered have ranged from the hea•t in August and September to speaking Hindi. During th<:: first two months, by the end of the day I would look like the ugly American and feel worse. The dirt 1hat gathers on your body is not just surface dust but a sweaty, catchy slimeRess that oozes out of the body all day and forms a sticky film. Unfortunately, the Hindi that we are taught in the classroom is not spoken anywhere in the world. One can roam from area to area in Delhi and from village to village and find a different dealect being spoken. It is generally possible to make yourself understood, however. Missing a p po in tments, being late, and cancellations are all frequent. It is not too much of an exaggeration to say you can't count on anything. But as soon as you learn to play the game their way, and help a little by steering things in your own direction, the whole process seems a little more normaL Perhaps the most telling frustration is one involving personal relationships and self-identification. Against the smug, complacent, isolation of the upper class you have to weigh the response, interest and kindness of the people in the slums, and. villages; against wealth and frivolity, poverty and sadness. I'm often asked in letters from home how Indians feel about Vietnam. Are they hawks or doves? Being as much a part of our culture as I'm gradually discovering I am, and wanting to have solutions, and answers, I will be presumptuous and say that the average man in India is apathetic; that the Indian intelligentsia is deeply anti-West and favorably disposed toward peoples fighting against Imperialism, real or imagined. In fact, this is the basic reason given by many scholars for India's foreign policy orientation being so completely divorced from its attachment to democratic values. This analysis most likely, however, is a gross oversimplification; the Indian response to the outside world being much more discriminating. The present political turmoil has made for interesting and exciting activity. Whoever defined politics as the art of the possible evidently was not thinking of India. Here political factions, parties, and individuals are all absorbed in the life of the impossible. Nobody bats an eyelid while chasing two wholly irreconcilable objectives simultaneously. Even more unbiquitous is the political habit of loudly proclaiming faith in some political PAGE 3 0 R.e·port From l·ndia formed. The question remains whether the parliamentary system will be able to withstand such uncertainties. And even if it does, Mrs. objective and then doing everything possible to .defeat th.at very objective. With the break up of the Congress Parliamentary Pa11y, Mrs. Gandhi has necessarily to look to constituting a government with the help of other parties. There may be a difference of opinion over who they should he, but the feeling here is that events are relentlessly moving toward a coalition, and without the active participation of the Communist Parties. Experience in the States has shown that United Fronts are essentially makeshift arrangements that generally do not last long. Therefore, there will certainly be an element of insecurity in the Center if a coalition is Gandh.i will find it hard to imp le men t her socialist policies. First, the regional parties she may be forced to align with are more parochial than progressive, and second, any successful economic program presupposes stability and long term measures. *CEILING AND VISIBILITY UNLIMITED At Pratt & Whitney Aircraft \ceiling and 'lisibility unlimited\ is not just an expression. For example, tile President of our parent corporation joined P&WA only tlllo years after receiv- ing an engineering degree. The preceding President, now Chairman, never worked for any other company. The current President of P&WA started in our engineering department as an experimental engineer and moved up to his present position. In fact, the majority of our senror officers all have one thing in common - degrees in an engineering or scientific field. To insure CAVU*, we select our engineers .and scientists carefully. Motivate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fields that have not been explored beiore. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsi!Jilicy than they can manage. Reward them well when they d!J manage it. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph:.D_ in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEI\11CAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PtlY'SICS • CHEM- ISTRY • METALLURGY • MATERIALS SCIEt'{CE • CERAM- ICS • MATHEMATICS • STATISTICS • COMPUTER SCI- ENCE • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERIN'G MECHANICS. Consult your college placement officer - or write Mr. William l. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 0fl1()8. CI\VU* might also mean full utilization of your !ethnical skills through a wide range of challenging progr~ms which inciude jet engines for the newest military and .:ommerciat aircraft, gas turbines for industrial and marine use, rocket engines for space programs, fuel cells for space vehicles an<! terrestrial uses, and other advanced systems. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED ARAFT CORPORAT'IOr-.i EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA .An Equal Opportunity Emptoyor

DECEMBER 3, 1969 PAGE 4 Colleague Scores Rocky'~ Analys!s Of Lattn Amenca Ombudsmen Are Ready The Liaison Committee is All c.omplaints and ready and willing to help questions no matter how students overcome the small will be !ltJ<lked into and problems they may face when answered, accnding to John dealing with any aspect of the Steedman, one of three college. students on tne committee. addition to Mr. Steedman are Rich Swan, and Charles Hollander. Any member of the eommittee may be eorttacted .for any problem, and the committee members hope that students will fake By NEIL S. KRAMER Some of Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller's recommendations on military aid to Latin America drew the fire of the director of the Center for Inter-American RelaHons, who advised Rockefeller during his summer tour of Latin America for President Nixon. David Bronheim, speaking before the International Relations Club last night, found that Rockefeller's observation of a serious Communist threat in Latin America and recommend- ation for increased military and economic assistance to any threatened regime \leads us to abdicate our own high ideals when we suppor·t repressive, authortarian grovermen ts.\ Contraty to Principles The United States should not provide weapons for military dictatorship's, Mr. Bronheim argued, because it is contrary to the principles we hold and espouse. \The p r ovi si on of military assistance to Authori- tarian-repressive governemnts (such as Brazil, Paraguay, or Haiti) is not only philosophically unsound, it is horribly impractical,\ he said. Discussing anti-Amer- icanism after his talk, Mr. Bronheim, explained that Americans have a tendency to confuse anti-Americanism with \violent nationalism.\ Communism Insignificant Referring to the Governor's observations of a serious communist threat in Latin America, Mr. Bronheim said, \the communist movement in Latin America is insignificant and is not responsible for the problems they have . .. Further, I don't see Latin America as an area crucially affecting U. S. national security,\ particularly in the age of ICBMs and nuclear weapons, he said. But the United States ought not to let Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall - One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. anti-American outbursts int1uence our policy more than our own national ethical beliefs, he said. A graduate of Harvard Law School, Mr. Broheim is deputy coordinator of the Alliance for Progress in charge of funding. The Committee, intende~ He added tlitat \'of course, all to be a Campus Ombudsman, complaints ue confidential.\ is designed to an we r students' F acu'lty men1bers on the advantage of their services. questions and requests for Committee are PFofs. Peter action when the proper Prosper, J.ofin Daniels, channel is not known or does William Daniels, and Hugh not exist. Wilson. St1:1den t members, in ( For your full color 29\ x 45\ Gentle Journey poster, )· send complete name and address with $1.00 to Eeniamino Cribari, P.O. Box 77147, San Francisco, California 94107.

DECEMBER 3,1969 A 'long list of experienced ve 1 e rans and a pa·ir ·of tal en ted freshmen are the ingredients first year c()ach Gerry Everling hopes to blend for a successfu:l wt;estling season this winter at Union. Heading the list of top flight returnees, out to better last year's 8-2 team mar.k are senior co-captains BiliMtttmo and Naysim Simon, who have combined a dt~al meet record over the .past two season.s of 1 35-J -}. Munno has lost oFIIy once in 18 outings and is expected to conti11ue in the win column this year at 126. Simon, his record marred only by a single tie in 20 dual meets, is a strong contender for regional honors at 16 7. Three other seniors return as front :tiNe wrestlers. Ron Ruhl will wrestle the new weight class 118. Sharing mat time with M l!lnno the past two seasons, he is undefeated with one tie in seven meets. Massive Pete Kenyon, a 290-pounder, had a 6-3 record at heavyweight last season while Jeff Knetzer was 8-2 at 142 in 1968-69. Knetzer will move up a class to 1 :>0 thts year as freshman Penn Sheldon, a N.Y. section five champion last winter, has earned a spot on the varsity. Soph Larry Bloom, who played halfback on the football team, is a serious challenger. Another freshman, Phil Reed, who eaptured section 2 At NSA, hunors in llJ6K-69, :has won the tsg slot. At 177, sophomore Gaty Morris seems to have the edge after a 5-1-1 record his freshman year but an injury to John Foster, top man at 19'1 could complicate matters in those two classes at least in early season meets. Continued on Page 6 our successes depend on yours. Because of the nature and scope of the National Security Agency's mission, our successes are in direct relation to your achievements. At NSA. we are responsible for designing and developing'·secure/invulnerable communications and EDP systems to transmit, receive and analyze much of our nation's most Vital information. The advancing technologies applied in this work are such that they will frequently take you beyond the known and accepted boundaries of knowledge. Consequently, your imagination and resourcefulness are essential qualifications for success. The Career Scene at NSA: ENGINEERS will find work which is performed nowhere else ... devices and systems are constantly being developed which are in advance of any outside the Agency. As an Agency engineer. you will carry out research, design, development, testing and evaluation of sophisti- cated, large-scale cryptocommunications and EDP systems. You may also par- ticipate in related studies of electromagnetic propagation, upper atmosphere phenomena, and solid state devices using the latest equipment for advanced research within NSA's fully instrumented laboratories. MATHEMATICIANS define. formulate and solve complex communications-related problems. Statistical mathematics, matrix algebra, and combinatorial analysis are but a few of the tools applied by Agency mathematicians Opportunities for contnbut1ons in computer sciences and theoretical research are a:lso offered. COMPUTER SCIENTISTS participate in systems analysis and systems pro· gramming related to advanced scientific and business applications. Software design and development is included, as well as support in hardware design, development and modification. Career Benefits: NSA\s liberal graduate study program permits you to pursue two semesters of full\time graduate study at full salary. Nearly all academic costs are borne by NSA. whose proximity to seven universities is an additional asset. Starting salaries, depending on education and experience, range from $9,169.00 to $15,000.00. and increases will follow systematically as you assume additional responsibility. Further, you will enjoy the varied career benefits and other ad- vantages of Federal employment without the necessity of Civil Service certifi- cation. Check with your Placement Office lor further information about NSA, or write to: Chief, College RelatiOns Branch. National Security Agency, Ft. George G. Meade, Md. 20755. Attn: M321. An aqua/ opportunity employer, M&F. Campus Interview Dates: national security agency . , . where imagination is the essential qualification. January 12, 1970

PAGE 6 DECEMBER 3 1 1969 Hoop O:utlook Cloud.e~ By lniuries, lack Of Heig~h.t Yankiver, Juniors Lead Swim By MARK SHUGO LL AND GREG HAMUN Under the tutelage of first-year coach Bob McMrray, the UrlioR College swimming opens its season on December 6 at New Paltz. McMurray, fromerly Qf .the athletic staff at Oneonta, won Several question marks cloud the picture for the 1969-70 edition of the Union College basketball squad. Basically a run and shoot team, the Garnet may be forced to revise their attack due to the injury to 6-6 senior center Bill Boehmke and the loss of 6-5 sophomore Rich Mathews. Boehmke had been counted on to ease the loss of the graduated 'Bill Neidel, who at 6-5 was Union's leading scorer and rebounder the past three years. A starter last season averaging 11.5 points per game, Boehmke may see limited action in the early part of the season, depending upon his ability to recuperate from a shoulder separation. High-Scoring Sophomore The biggest plus for Coach Chris Schmid must be the varsity debut of 5-8 sophomore Jim Tedisco. Tedisco led the freshmen to a 9-7 record last year while scoring at over a 26 point per game clip. A graduate of Bishop Gibbons High School in Schenectady, Tedisco should provide Union with a fast-breading offense on the strength of his ball-handling skills. Qttestion Mark The big question mark for the Garnet is the extent of its rebounding game. Without Boehmke in the line-up, the probable starting five will average only a shade over 6 feet in height. 6-3 junior Rit Gallucci, a guarrt on the Garnet football team, is the leading candidate for the vacated pivot assignment. Gallucci missed last season due to an injury. Rounding Mat Sked Continued from Page 5 , At 134, two sophomores are battling for the front line spot Harvey Bilik is the veteran from last year's freshman squad while Pete Keller, another member of the football squad, is also in contention. \The team is strong along the front line,\ says coach Everling, a former standout wrestler for Syracuse University where he was e~.stern champ and a national sEmi-finalist in the 191 class. \But my wrestlers must stay healthy if we are going t0 have an outstanding season\ he says, noting the lack of depth on his squad. The team has 1 0 dual matches and a quadrangular meet on the schedule this winter with Everling rating Kings Point and Colgate., the teams which defeated the Dutchmen last season, as the toughest to be faced. out the probable starting team are , a pair ·f.>f 6-1 lettermen, Dave Shames ami Jim Getman, and Rhein Eichinger, a si,x-foot sophomore. Shames and Getman each saw considerable action last winter. The Garnet, under third year Coach Schmid, are hopeful of improving upon last Year's 10-ll fecord, and thus b ecorning the first winning Union five since the 1963-64 squad. Schmid has a nucleus of four letteFmen to lead him through a tough 22-garne schedule_ Open Slate T orught U B ion opens j,ts slate tonight as they travel to Vermont to face Middlebury in the 39th renewal of a rivalry dating back to 1926. The Dutchmen hold a 24-15 edge in the series, including an 80-71 win last season at Union. Upsala College of East Orange, New Jersey , provides the opposition Friday, December 5, as the Dutchmen open their home campaign. Graubart & So11s may run small ads, but they 'ha. ve big values. Schenectady's fCJmous diamond she>p, for three genera1'ionsl 166 Joy St. Three UniQn Grad~ates in Family; It you'll get engaged Here is a little hElp DIAMOND PRICE FACTS: All-American lalll'els in swimming at Cortland State. At this time the Garnet's starting line-up i s still undetermined, but it is certain that a successful season will hinge on the performance of the team's junior members. Jim Newton will compete in the individual medley and DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked l~alian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street We Cater To Un1on Students 10°~ Service Discount Don't spend more than you can afford. A good rule to follow: Spend about a rnonth of your salary on the engagement ring. But make sure you get the most for your money. In the ring style that pleases her most. DIAMOND BUYING FACTS: About half of all engagement rings are chosen by boy and girl together. But in many cases the young man buys the diamond alone. Or he talks it over with us first and then brings his girl In for final selectiorvlt's up to you! DIAMOND STYLING FACTS: Modern· girls are Individualists. Some want an absolutely perfect diamond even II it is smaller. Others want the largest stone pos- sible even if it has slight flaws. Some want ultra-modern, others traditional styling. These are the things to talk over with us. COME IN! AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! We have helped so many young couples. We can help you to come to the rigltt decision. Let your wishes and our experience be the guide. For a lifetime of happiness with your diamond. Your Schenectady Area Keepsake DU:lmond Representative By BRUCE GARBER freestyle long-distance events. Bob Szatrowski inherits flmner All-American Steve Werlin's position in the butterHy. The top sprinter this year is Dave Seward, who will receive help from Jon and Mike Horwath in the fveestyle events. Y ankiver is workhorse Burt Yankiver will be the Garnet workhorse and is expected to add to his Union College records this winter. Yankiver can be expected .to swiln. the backstroke, the distance freestyle, and, occasionally, the individual medley. He is also expected to anchor the relays. Sophomore Gary Needell has produced excellent timings in the backstroke and, along with Tony Picone, is expected .to malce a strong showing.' The diving events will serionsly jeopardize a successful season :for the mermen. Mike Rone, last year's diver, will be abroad this winter and as yet no smtable replacements have been found. Under a new NCAA ruling, freshmen are eligible for the varsity this year. When you know it's for keeps All yol:lr sharing, all your special memories have grown into a precious and enduring love. Happily, these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a choice selection of many lovely styles. He's listed in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ \L?' ..- ~GISTERED k ~12sa. e® DIAMOND RINGS HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 1. Please send new 20 page booklet, \How To Plan Your Eng~gement and Wedding'' Md new !2 page, full C<;llor folder, both for only 2Sc. Also, how can I obtain 1 the beeu11ful 4<4 page Brtde's Keepsake Booli at ht!lf price? M'f I Nom•---------------..---------- 1 ( ilddrtn--'------.---------------- 1 ci•w Co.------- 1 ~~ ~ I I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90. SYRACUSE, NEW YORK 13201 I L----------------------~--------J VOL. 99, I The S Term as Memorial appearin! student F On ' off-Broac the Chap Sc~ Aid Union f received more th~ these gr from 1 Foundat added tc foundaH . is presen ·t ·iJ J ' -) { The s award f1 Com pan aim oft Kodak reimbun the cos that whi and fees The Founda1 a $5 ,I develop! coope engine1 mather encoura portion studies: In Lib raf) federal shared St. Rc Commt

