,OW Founded at Union Co/Je~e 18 77 SCHENECTAD'I', NEW YORK, OCTOBER 3, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS -artin Addresses First onvo') Tells Students To Measure Participation Viet Moratorium Planned: March, Fornm, Films Set '\Students must learn to easure with some sensitivity ust where their participation ~· can be useful, and where it egins and ends.\ This was the theme of President ,p Harold C. Martin's report to the college at the opening convocation in Memorial , Chapel Tuesday morning. :: \. In an address entitled J '' Alma? Mater?\ the President reaffirmed faculty 1 supremacy in curricula ·· ~~ formulation. He outlined the Yj procedures that allow 1. students to influence course ·~ content, such as sitt~ng on the .'-major curnculum \; committees, but stated that I .. Curriculum is essentially a faculty matter .. .In the end, it · will be a faculty council or the General Faculty Meeting ~' that makes the decision.\ 1\· Not By Referendum ·' . Discussing future building t and alterations in the College · :_· environment, Dr. Martin said that \ ... some decisions about \ the environment will be made .t;t_- finally by those whose ·1 responsibility is for the \ .,long-rather than the short-term.\ ; ~·i\'l Dr. Martin noted that \1\' ~ \students represent only one of five constituencies that have a right to some voice in ' / · the decisions.\ The other constituencies include the faculty and staff, trustees, , 4 ,~ , alumni, the public ~nd the l , -! parents who pay the bills. ID.tegrity And Harmony The President noted that •~ the college had recently AftNOUM<EMEHTS Tickets are now on sale for \The Youngbloods\ concert. They can be purchased from Resident Advisers and fraternity representatives until Thursday. Tickets will also be on sale every day at Student Activities and every evening at the Library and at the Rathskellar. Tickets are $3.00 per person. ******** The laminated .plastic student identification cards are now available at the Stu dent Activities -office for those whose · pictures were taken at registration. The final day for I.D. photographs will be Tuesday, October 7. Please sign up for photographs at Student Activities, and bring your yellow receipt card from registration. A berobed President Harold Martin addressing the Opening Convocation Tuesday. undergone significant change and is likely to continue changing. '\To date,\ he said, \Union has happily been quite successful in meeting change without losing its integrity and harmony.\ He cited the recent increase in black students on campus and the decision to go coed as examples of recent significant change. Recognizing that future changes will be required and more problems confronted, Dr. Martin said that the issues would be resolved successfully if \we will all have the strength and patience to solve problems rather than simply agitate them.\ A march through downtown Schenectady and a community canvassing will be among local activities during the na tiona! Vietnam moratorium October 15. The march will start about noon from Nott Memorial and will proceed near State Street and Nott Terrace. said Mark Merson, vice president of the Student Social Actien Committee which is sponsoring the event. He said that two routes are under consideration. Merson said Schenectady officials have granted permission for the march pending a written request from the committee. Schenectady police an<:l Union student marshals will oversee the parade route, he added. Silent Vigil Merson said a silent vigil at Veteran's Park is \under consideration.\ The community canvassing following the march will be aimed at encouraging \thinking about and acting upon the war in Vietnam,\ Merson said. •• A lot of people have sort of forgotten about it\ due to President Nixon's troop withdrawals, he said. T h e d o o r - t o- do o r canvassing will include petitions advocating complete withdrawal of U. S. troops Singer To Speak Max Singer, President of the Hudson Institute, will speak to the International Relations Club on Monday, October 6, at 7:30 PM. Mr. Singer's lecture, entitled \WHY ABM?\ is part of a serieS of lectures on •• Alternatives for American Foreign Policy\ sponsored by the I.R.C. _ Singer is one of the principle founders of the Hudson Institute, a private \think tank\ for research on pressing military, social, political, and environmental problems. . . . . . By M. Paul Andrews from Vietnam, Merson said. The effort will be designed to educate people through fact sheets and literature on the war, rather than to debate the issue with them, he said. \We want people to be aware of the fact that we still have a war\ which the average citizen \is doing nothing about,\ Merson said. He said that copies of the petition will be sent to local and national legislators. college, faculty and students, as well as possible a New York state legislator in Washington, Merson said, \but we don't have anyone yet who will argue for it (the war).\ Two documentary films on the war also will be shown the evening of October 13, Merson said. The following evening Dick Gregory will speak at Sienna College in conjunction with the moratorium, he added. Two showings of \The War Game\ a documentary Continued on page 5 Moratorium activities will begin October 13 with an afternoon forum discussing both sides of the war, Merson said. The forum will include Bingham & Maras Get New Administration Posts Two staff changes at the College were recently announced by President Harold C. Martin. R. Gordon Bingham has Widow Leaves House to UC By TOM MORANTE President Harold C. Martin announced Tuesday that Union College has been given a house and formal garden by Mrs. Frederick Searls, widow of the distinguished engineer who served as chairman of Newmont Engineering in New York City. The house is located on Main Street in Rensselaerville, N.Y., about thirty miles from Schenectady. The main building has living quarters and nine bedrooms. There is also a smaller unit on the property which consists of two bedrooms and a living-room. been named assistant to the president. Joseph T. Maras, currently assistant director of admissions, replaces Bingham as director of student aid. Bingham, who also holds the title of lecturer in economics, has been at Union since 1967. He is a 1964 graduate of Middlebury College, with an M.A. in 1'96~ from Northwestern University. He is a member of the New York State and Eastern Financial Aid Administrators Associations, the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators, the American Economic Association, and the NAACP. Advisor, Coach Bingham serves as an advisor of financial aid to Union's Upward Bound program and to the Schenectady Community Action Program. In addition to his management responstblhhes, he 1s continuing to work in the research program, where he has been particularly concerned in the recent past with the spread .of nuclear weapons, U.S. policy toward undeveloped areas, stu~1es of European force arrangements, and the possible roles of tactical The architecture was originally federal, but early in this century a Greek revival front was added. The renovation included a porch with great fluted columns. ln reference to the condition of the building, President Martin sait that \The house is· partly furnished, in excellent condition outside but in need of some re-decorating inside\. Maras came to Union as an assistant professor of physical education and head football coach. In 1964, he was named assistant director of admissions. The 1938 Duquesne graduate was an all-America honorable mention center on the Duquesne football team. Maras took an M.A. at Columbia University in 1950. nuclear weapons. Rand Corp. Before coming to Hudson, Singer wa~ a consultant to th~ Physics Division of the RAND Corporation. From 1957 unttl 1960 he was an attorney in the Office of the General Counsel of the Atomic Energy Commission, and prior to that, he was a. Research Associate with the American Law Institute. He has a longstanding interest in arms control and was a participant in the Summer Study on Arms Control held in Cambridge, Massachussetts in 1960 under the auspice~ of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Member of Bar Singer, born in 1931, received his B.A. in Government from Columbia College in 1953, and the LL.B from Harvard Law School in 1 956. He is a member of the bar in New York State .and in the District of Columbia. He has written several articles on arms control, which have appeared in both Hudson Institute reports and in .outside publications. Conference Center The building will be used as a conference center for the College and, during the summer, for various academic teaching-learning institutes. In time, other uses will undoubtedly develop, but all will be educational, not social, the President said. He is a member of the Association of College Admissions Counselors, the New York State Guidance and Personnel Association, and the Association of American University Professors, He is a member of the board of directors of the S c h e ne c t ad y C o u n t y Community Ambassador Project.

i i I I I R~GE 2 Vietnam And The Moratorium Last month President Nocon said that, \The time has.corne to e:11d this war.\ He was wrong. The time is past and long pa.st. The time has come, however, for all opponents of the war to •c<mcentrate their forces on the ending of the conflict. If the war awakened many Americans to what was wrong and \Vhat could be better, it is sad testimony to their efforts that the \Var drags on while they have been unsuccessful in ~their forays a,gainst more elusive and amorphous enemies. We have been led l>.y our own naivete and our hopes for total amelioration in .s<Jciety to forget to do the first thing first, and that is to end the V't.'ar. Reform of the draft, control of the military by civilians, and ·~lecting political leaders who respond as well as listen are all ·rucessary, but it seems logical that these will be.easier prey once Gte War in Viet Nam, which feeds them as surely as they feed the vovar. is dead. We have the power necessary to force an end to the conflict, but we have frag:mented it's usefulness and lost sight of the war as our immediate enemy. Acts of violence have done nothing to date but demonstrate that when frustrated enough we can destroy Whatever is nearest to us, releiving our own anxiety but 'leaving the enemy unharmed. It seems uncomprehensible that college campuses have been sabotaged while military bases labor on, railroads still carry weapons of war, and draft boards meet IO'Vithout continuous reminders of what they are doing. It is that IW'/e are aghast of what is going on but too selfish or afraid to do anything but satisfy ourselves with undirected acts of violence and protest? On October 15th we can all get back to the business of·ending ~he war. On that day, by cooperating with the Viet Nam Noratorium, we can dedicate ourselves to attack on our immediate enemy and initiate our campaign by explaining why t:he war is bad and must be stopped. More importantly, we can speak to individuals, not to groups or television cameras · it is a real opportunity to change minds and this is what we must do if t:he war is to end. Of course the War will not end the next day, and maybe not ceve1 unless we are conscientious in our pursuit of it. There must 1Je other October 15ths and much more than that there must be action against the conduct of the war itself. The important thing js that all activity be directed against the war directly, not ~iphoned off in directions where no success is possible. We can -end the war and in ending it learn valuable lessons in technique ~nd directing power to a specific end. Obviously, we can use these -well when the time comes to go after the enemies that lie behind ~nd beyond Viet Nam. We must realize that until we channel our energies, our :activism and our thinking squarely against the war we can never hope to end it. As long as we stand divided before the enemy, and waste our strength against him, he has nothing to fear · we are playing his game. \Those who make peacejul revolutio11 impossible makr v i o len t rev o 1 u t i o 11 i n e vi t a bl e. · · Published Tueroay and Friday during the Union College academic year by the Student Body of Union College. Schenectady, New York. Published Thurroays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students in residence at Union College. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service. In c.. College Publishers Representative. 360· Lexington Avenue. N.Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office. Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc .• 416·418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235·4450; Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEIL S. KRAMER Edit c Jr- in-Ciz ief HENRY FEIN .................... . Managing Editor CARL GOLDSAND ............... BusinessManager RiCHARD E. PATTERSON JR .........• . News Editor WILLIAM OUZER ................ Executive Editor PETER WEINGOLD •............... Features Editor BILL HOLLERAN ................... Sports E4itor JODY SASLOW ................ Photography Editor Cale:nda,r CARNIVAL WEili<END October 3 - Hitcl!cock_ Film: \The Lodger\ ;g :'00, SSO 16. October 4 • Booth.s and Games, 1:00, library Field. WRUC Block -?\arty 3:00: \Tom Jones\ 3,. 7, 9: 15 PM SS016. HOMECOMING October 10 • Hitcllicock Film: \Blackmail\, 3: 01), SSO 16. October 11 - Football vs. Rochester. The Y\oungbloods Memorial Chapel:. 8:30. October 12 · The Marx Brothers' \Duck Soup\ 7 and 9: 15 PM. H. A. \V'ilson, Organ Recital, 4:00 PM, Memorial Chapel. O.F.F. WEEKEND October 3 J. - \\VRUC Halloween Ball. November 1 · Toin·Paxton. November 2 \The Professionals\ 3, 7, 9:15 PM FALL WEEKENCJ November 13- Mountenbanks, \Saved\. November 14 -Uountebanks, \Saved\. \Notorious\ · Film November 15 · FootbaJ1 vs. Hamilton. Mountebanks, \Saved\. The Fl0ook · concert. November 16 - \Elvira Madigan\ 3, 7, 9:15 Social .Actio:n Comm,ittee Ready For October 1St~ To the editor: The Union College Social Action Committee has proposed the following plan in support of the View Nam Moratorium which will take place on October 15: On Wednesday, the morning of October 15, all members of the Union College community are invited to hear Alan Brick. Mr. Brick has just returned from South Viet Nam, where he witnessed many abuses and atrocities performed by the government of the United States upon the Vietnamise people. The discussion will be preceded by the film entitled ''War Game.\ Following '\War Game\ and Mr. Brick's address, a peace march will take place which will pass through Schenecta.dy and end in Veteran's Park. For the remainder of the day, members of the Union College community will pass out information in a \canvassing routine,\ in efforts to acquaint the people of Schenect~dy with additional facts. We, the undersigned, believe that constructive steps must he taken to redirect the actions taken by the government of the United States. We, believe that the Social Action C0:mmittee is taking and shall continue to take constructive steps toward this end. Therefore, we strongly urge your active support of this plan. The Student Social Action Committee 500· Freshmen At A Mixer Spell A Really -Bad Scene Opening Scene: Closeup of an alarm clock nex 1 t:o a· calendar. All the days of the month of September aie \X''ed out in red up to the 26th. The clock reads 5:15. off camera the sound-track picks up the sound of a door slamming and .feet pounding down a flight of steps, fade out. Next scene: Parkin,g lot at West College. About 500 freshmen wearing ties, sports jackets, scrubbed faces and shiny sl10es aie standing arm•nd nervously glancing at w.;atches, the pavement, cais p-assing, busses passing. Cuts of sweaty palms, fingernails bitten 1o the quick, shifty eyes, then c~t to shots of either pigs or cattle: in st()ckyards waiting to be slaug!Itered. Jump to a shot of lollg·haired freak with camera; leaning out of window on fottrtlt .floor of West College. Freak yells something like, \Show us yotJt finger,\ and makes an appro}Jiriate gesture. Quick cut to the beginning of \Show us yom Lark pack\ commercial. Cut t() shot from fourth floor win.Iow of West College down to tlte parking lot where 500 bodies extead one or both middle finge•s vertically in the air. Off canerih voice remarks that will be the ldghlight of the whole night. At saiile time cut to same shots of pi~ or cattle. Cut to long shot from West College paiking l~t to road in front of Hale House with three buses pulling ~p in front. Sound-track pick:s up esctatic male screams and cries, also heard KING'S Ail\ tArt :riC SERVICE STATION 717 Not! Street We Cater To Unio~ Students lOao Service ·Discount By M. GOTTLIEB is bugle blowing \charge.\ Cut to tracking shot in middle of seething mob of freshmen frantkally closing in towards busses. Cut to shot of either calvaiy chaige or cattle stampede. Cut to view of approaching horde from inside one of the busses. Off camera sound-track records female groans and cries of dismay, disgust...Cut to long shot, possible from top of Nott Memorial, of males racing up steps, running towaids busses then coming to an abrupt halt, collectively putting hands in pockets and commencing intense, dark \Jack-the-Ripper· esgue\ staies. Cut to shots of females reluctantly descending off buses, putting hands in female equivalent of pockets. Wary glances are exchanged between the two groups. A mass judgment, appraisal and sentencing by the host group of the visitors takes place. Cut to either used car lot with customers kicking tires or a series of stills of slave auction blocks. Continue same shots of two groups lookirtg at each other ever but gradually stop down lens to daiken picture to indicate long passage of time until complete blackout. · Next shot of same clock next to same calendar. The calendar \For three Generations.' Those Who Know .•. Have been \ecommending - has all the days of September \'X\ed out in red up to the 27th. The clock reads 7:4.5, off camera, a door slams and feet arc heard pounding down a flight of stairs. Next shot is of steps in front of Alumni Gym, about 500 freshmen wearing ties, sports jackets, scrubbed fa.ces and shiny shoes aie standing a:round. Cut to shots of sweaty palhls, fingernails bitten to the quick and shifty eyes. Off camera, the sound of approaching buses is heaid. Camera, still aimed at Gym steps from across the street, pans ninety degrees to the left to show tluee or four buses approaching. Camera pans back illtd sh.ows, on steps of Gym, sea of faces jum(>ing up and do...vn in unison. Jump cut to shot frcm front seat of f\mt bus appr0oaching Gym. Males seem to be ranning all over the street. Off c~mera female groans and expressions of dismay. Also disdain, (girls are from Skidmore). Bus sto(>S as it is surrounded. Cut to shGt of Indians attacking a wagon train or stagecoach. Girls descend from bus as camera sbwly fadeS\OUt to tile sou.nd of Simon and Garfunkel sing\ At the Zoo.\ HERSHEL MAURICE I:l WALTER d~3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY O!;TQBI; -~.Dr Welj , .. College. you. I I them, :1' , your sta much a and so1 may wa1 You ex cell en is more with ga~ doesn't did yeu ··~· lies be \ serenit :, movem( -, .. that a 1 when 2 and ad1 :.. \f\' · efforts . ·.l,~ that are often in You liP\ ;,1 adven I hopefu] 1 of arriv ·;;If; \l'; ·\arrive' ] .~estina 1 ~ 1s no \) . ~:s~~~ perhap~ \ lr- directic J destia \ I respon:o; travelle P'':\' l I . i ~i#' Bee.: capable be in rather : [ perch 1 · 1 ~ educa \ 1 constu 1 Canyo :~ .. ! Soln \ stronge j 1 ,... , College 1 worry step\ I perhap · 1 '\' with Yj being l faculty lit Th new c lJ' a .. dmi. n~ .,_ !:f.t .con tin 1 I like; ~ : selecth ; il your iJ they a ex peri< · degree: ~·'dis tin 11 author ... I> ideas c \ 1 ;,And IE is a p1 after y ''\it. Re:s distru:s .u'the na that past fi.you 1 you? ,fir Y()· theori' t:1

end the day, Union pass in a in with the the the is to steps ore, active ptember 27th. camera, heard stairs. of t 500 sports shiny Cut to shifty of heard. steps pans to show on f faces unison. ont seat Gym. all over female dismay. from it is of train or from to and OGTQBE;H 3. 1969 PAGE3 T.Dr.Herman: An Open LetterToThe Class 0£'73 l . - W el c()m e to Union College. It has great riches for you. I hope you will' add to them, and that you enjoy , your stay bere. You will find much ab~ut Union to like, and so me things that you may want to change. 1• You have picked an excellent college. But Union I . • is more tl:tan a pretty campus ~ \.~· .. · with gardens and a brook that doesn't bound as well as it did yean ago. The real college ··~· lies beneath this physical \ serenity. Seek out the !, movement and the ferment •. ,. that a :good college. generates when 2,000 students, faculty, and admi11istrators join their • If• · efforts in pursuing objectives ' 'J.·· that are unclear, diffused, and often inconsistent. .,. You are beginning a 11 ~ew il adventure, trave tng 1 hopefully with little chance l of arrivin1J, 1 hope you never ·~'!';·\arrive\. To reach a ~ . destina tbn. is to .stop. There is no stopping on your ~) . journey. Union ;gives you a . passport, and signposts, and . perhaps even a sense of \ ~ direction~ but we provide no t destitution. That's your '! responsibility. What kind of a . traveller are you'? F ~:'\ Bewne aU that y()u are i 1 • capable of being. But always 1 ''' be in a state of becoming rather than being. Make every \ perch temporary. That's what ! ~ education is all about: ( consta11t travel, no arrival. : Can you keep the pac:e? :~,. j So1ne of you will have \ stronger feelings aboat Union I .,College than others. Ibn't t~ •• f 1 worry about being out o step\ -with the fac111ty; I perhaps they are our of step ·~\\with you! Don't worry about being \in step\ with the 1 faculty either! kt The faculty and IJ. administr~t.ion .wm be ma~~g new dec!Slons and pol1ctes ,_ 'i:f.t .continuously. Some you will ' • B like; gtll.ers you won t. e il selective. Don't agree with your instructors just because they are older or have more experience or more academic · degrees than you. Learn to q:zc,distinguish between the ' 1 authority of ideas and the ideas of authority. But learn! \ i•And learn to love learning: it , is a process you will enjoy after you grow accustomed to ,.,.it. Re:spect precedent, .but distru:st it. Precedent is ()fte:rt · u ·the name we give to mistakes that wete made sometime past Wlia1 precedents did ,. ~ you bring to college with you? ·• Y()U will learn a lot of theories in your elementary courses, and then learn that most of these · theories are shaky or impractical. Is anything more practical than a sound theory? Don'.t waste good dissent on minor or frivolous matters. You will be tempted to. The quality .of dissent must b~ measured by its expression and its goals. Consider ways to make frictions fruitful. Get confidence, but more important, retain doubt. Seek advice, but remain skeptical! Don't give up your enthusiasm too easily or too cheaply. Inexperience, like experience, can be a virtue. Inexperience can lead to discovery .and to fresher, deeper understanding. Learn to take serious matters seriously, and light matters. lightly. Learn further that this may be a blurred distinction. But it may be the most critical distinction you are constantly called upon to make. Are there any unblurred distinctions? Make heavy demands on the college. Union is a fine institution, and we are waiting f()r you tu make it even finer. The policies of the college should be always defensible; your actions must be too. The college has been both handicapped and enriched by habit and tradition. You will have to judge the legacy of the past 1 7 5 years which has accumulated on campus. You bring to college no such ties to the past. Or do y<>u'? Keep pressure on the faculty. Try to push us to the limits of our intellectual capability and inquisitiveness. We want to learn with you. We will learn more from the questions you ask than from the answere you give. Hopefully, we will. Test everything. Turn things around. Look at your books and your teachers in the nude. When you hear about the \Economics of Poverty,\ ask about the Poverty of Economics. Is political science a contradiction in terms'? How human are the humanities? Anthropology, psychology, and sociology presume to teach about mankind and social kind. Do they really? Is economics \the dismal science,\ or is it merely taught dismally from dismal books? Why \Search and destroy\? Why not \search and build\? Why \law and order''? Why not \law and reason., or law and freedom\? Why the \why nots\? Do they make you uncomfortable? Why'? By PROF. ROBERTS. HERMAN Time is the substance of life. Use it wisely. Digress, ponder, but don't squander time. You have the right to be restless, and the freedom to make mistakes. But be responsible for using your restlessness and your mistakes to serve a larger purpose. How do you measure purpose'? A famou·s economist concluded that \knowledge is the only instrument of production that is not subject to diminishing returns.\ True or false'? How do you acquire the art of using knowledge? How do you learn to recognize knowledge when you find it? Develop an appetite for involvement and a craving for reflection. Learn to join these. Make the college help you weigh the relative merits of participation and detachment. Are you a singular or a plural? How do you know? Union has its reading, writing, and its arithmetic, its humanities, social and physical sciences, and its own engineering school. Union also has an inner logic and an inner rhetoric. Discover these. If necessary, help invent new ones. Search for the \truth\ but always put it in quotation marks when you find it. \Truth\ may be like bakery store bread -· fresh for one day only. Tomorrow it becomes stale. Why the quotation marks? Be aware of the outside world. It is much larger than Union College. But be aware too that Union College is an important part of it, and that these two are constantly interacting. Where is the inside world? What is happening there? Every year a college changes at least 25 per cent as the seniors leave and the freshmen enter. No other institution is so completely structured for renewal; and few other institutions have been as resistant to change during the 20th century as our colleges. This is one of the great paradoxes of our times relatively static college folkways imposed upon constantly changing student bodies. Why is this a paradox? Don't misjudge your role at Union. You are· not just passing through, like characters in a play. You are part of the college? you are its character. You are the reason for its existence. When you came here, you took on a heavy responsibility · without really About Prof. Herman Professor Herman has been Chairman of the Department of · Economics at Union since last spring. Dr. Herman, a 1941 · graduate of Union, took has master's degree in Public Adninistration at the University of Cincinnati in 1943 and his doct()rate in economics and public administration at New York University in 1950; lie has held a number of posts in government and education and has acted as consultant to governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and Africa. ~r. Herman was appointed Director of Research and Fiscal • Policy for the New York State Division of the Budget in 1954. He a.lso served, successively, as the Director of Development and: Planning and, from 1963 to 1966, as Assistant Director of the Division. The Union Professor served as Chief Staff Officer of the 1967 New York State Constitutional Convention. meaning to! Most of you probably came for rather flimsy reasons. It was easier than ~etting a job, safer than going into the armed forces, and a means of satisfying your parents without giving up anything. You may not know why you came to Union.. I hope, when you gradllate, you will know why you should have come. Y()u are growing up in an era of misplaced priorities. If you agree with this staternent, what are you going. to do about it? If you disagree, what are you going to do about it? How useful are priorities? Every commencement speaker last year urged that education be more \relevant.\ R-elevant to what? This is your big question. You are asked to be mot:,e responsible, more responsive, to have a comrnittment. Meaningless words! Res[)-onsible for what? A co111rnittment to what? C()mmencement speakers also deplored the generation «gap.\ They prescribed all sorts of remedies for this gap -· as if it were a dreadful; venereal disease! Hooray for the Generation Gap! It is the most hopeful aspect of American life. Without this gap, there would be no cl:tange, no development, no renewal, no discovery. Why not? The generation gap seems to be growing. Fine! The pace of change is quickening. This gap used to be about 20 years, and made the faculty seem ancient to the freshmen. Toclay, the senior class may appear fossilized to you. No generation can understnad the next, or the last, nor should it pretend to. The pretension of understanding oft en ere ates greater misunderstanding. What is a yot1ng fogie? Don't become one! Ed ucatioll must be a communicable dis-ease, and you are on both sides of this communication. College forces discussion between generations. How constructive will our discussions be? What will result from them? We were promised the Great Society. Instead we have the Gap Society. There are gaps all over. The worst one may be the privilege gap. It is tearing America apart. Think about it. Worry over it. What's a privilege? Bob Dylan gave us advice about you: If you don't understand them, get out of their way. For the times they are a changing! We can't get out of your way. During the next four years we will be involved with each other -- institutionally, socially, intellectually, and emotionally. A college is a conglomerate of persons, traditions, and goals. These may be in concert or they may be in conflict. A college requires cohesion and loyalty; it must also deserve loyalty. How do you define loyalty? We need integrity and dignity too. How can we achieve the highest quality of dignity, integrity, and loyalty for Union - the college we have all chosen to enrich? Let's put this high on our collective agenda. We have tried to keep the water running for you. You may hav? to turn the faucets on. Some of them may be stuck. Some may stay stuck. That's too bad! I hope yours doesn't. We wanted to keep the water running for all of you. William James once told a group of Radcliffe girls that the purpose of their college education was to know a good man when they saw one. Perhaps the purpose of your education at Union is to know a good world when you see one. This one isn't. But it bas some things worth retaining and worth renewing. What are they?

'. I PAGE 4 OCTOBE.R 3, 1969 HCM's Speech Carnival i,i· Student Power: Inevitable? Weekend The President's opening convocation address has struck the people at Union in different ways: as a go-slow plea from a bust-fearing administrator, as a scolding lecture by a self-styled wise man, as a reasoned request for moderation during difficult times, even as the reply of our Alma Mater's Sophie Portnoy. The President focused his address on what institutions like Union \have to offer,\ and in his answer, an assumption very damaging to nations of student pitrtici patio n in College governance arises. Within Alma Mater's \large brood\ the President identified the faculty and the staff, the trustees, the alumni, the public, our parents, and ourselves. Except for the students, and the public whatever that is, all of the College's constituencies are composed of people who have made some commitment to the College beyond attending it as students. It would seem then, that being a student is insufficient for anything more than a role in the early stages of decision-making. But students are the only one of Alma Mater's constituencies to know first-hand how the details of administration and instruction are being carried out. (Perhaps it is truculent to mention some of the failings of the administration just after the President has told us that \some decisions about the environment will be made finally by those whose responsibility is for the long-rather than the short-term.\) The size of the freshman class represents the latest mistake by the adminis· tration. Because more people whoUnion accepted, accepted Union, than was planned. A whole range of deprivations have been visited on the student body, those 503 innocent freshmen included. We all have larger classes, since the hiring of faculty did not account for extra large freshman classes. Because more scholarship money than anticipated was given to the Class of '73, upperclass students in need of financial aid have had to live on austerity budgets · or compete for loans on a tight money market. And for about SO lucky souls, North College ltas been re~opened, By NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief with the benefit of only a quick patch-up, rather than the full-scale renovation that was intended. Examples of the errors of past administrations linger on the campus. West College was once described by former Dean of Students 0. Edward Pollock as \cellblocks set on bowling alley corridors.\ But there is no use in rest of the people to whom Union \belongs\ share H. By the example of the President's progre·ss-ive elimination of restrictions on visiting hours for female guests in dormitories has a lesson for all, the President included. The dynamism and energy that American students have begun to exert is gaining momentum a:t Union. Student power and students rights seem to be following the English, ratller than the Soviet example, but its ascendency here is no less inevitable. WRUC Block Pa:r·ty BOOTHS AND GAM:ES FILMS \The Lodger\ · Tonight \Tom Jones\ - Saturday Union College Social Committee endless recriminations here, especially since the College has been so tranquil in the midst of so much uproar. If this be cause for credit, then let both the students and the Midnight Cowboy Scores, Touching, Searing Cinema Paper Highway Paper Highway, the only independent, student run newspaper in the Tri-Cities area, is looking for staffers and editors in all areas. There are few truly By DANNY ~HOCifE'[ no attempt to make these important films, films that attempts to be a high class losers into tragic figures, no are cinematic landmarks. stud for frustrated .society psychbook monologues that \Midnight Cowboy\ is one of ladies. He meets Ratso Rizzo, end in a plea for tolerance. those films. The subject and these two lonely rejects The characters are honestly As the cost of freedom matter, the language, and the discover they actually can shown, people city dwellers is always high but never as high as the cost of printing the Highway is in vital need of people with business acumen willing to put that skill to use in support of an underground paper. characters are radically care for another human view dispassionately each different from any films that being. day. Schlesinger has have come before it. As such, Without ever losing sight redirected our view of them a reviewer tends to lose sight of his main characters, the from New York's sideshow of the f:tlm and discuss what director John Schlessinger performers to sick, lonely the film will mean. I will depicts the life-style of New people. attempt to stick to a York's losers: the freaks, You have read the above discussion of the film. homo sex u a Is, tramps, in most reviews of \Midnight Anyone interested in working for the Highway is asked to contact Ray Krise at 372-2816. \Midnight Cowboy\ is a vag!'ants, and poor. Cowboy,\ but few reviewers taut, naturalistic depiction of Schlesinger refused to let his have written of what a tender New York's Forty-Second camera romanticize the love story the film is. Beneath street society. The film squalor and pain of New the filth, Joe Buck and Ratso chronicles the life of Joe York's underbelly. The color Rizzo find compassion for Buck and focuses upon his is real, never pretty. There is each other, not in a U • G d t p homosexual way, but in the lllOll ra ua e rogram }:;~~~;:~~~s~~~anbeing~ Makes A Home At Vassar The acting, as you have · heard, is excellent. Dustin Union College's graduate of Dutchess County mathematics. The same Hoffman as Ratso proves he program in Poughkeepsie, Community College, who has program is offered at Union's is an excellent actor, and Jon offering studies in operations allowed us to use space on his h o m e c a m p u s i n Voight as Joe Buck gives a research and statistics, will campus,\ Dr. Thimm said. Schenectady. Also offered in move this fall to new quarters ' ' D u t c h e s s C o u n t y Schenectady is a doctoral at Vassar College. Community College has program in engineering and The Union program, the played a major role in helping administrative systems. largest of the Schenectady our program become firmly Located at the Murphy college's off-campus established in the farm offices of the operations, will be housed on mid-Hudson region.\ Poughkeepsie program will be the 51-acre Thomas W. The shifting of the Union two full-time faculty Murphy farm. The farm is program to the Vassar members Dr. Armen Fisher, owned by Vassar and is campus may be the first in a assistant professor of adjacent to its campus. series of moves toward industrial administration and Dr. Alfred L. Thimm, expanded inter-institutional director of the Poughkeepsie director of Union's Industrial cooperation at the graduate operations, and Joseph Administration Institute, said level in Poughkeepsie. Maciariello, instructor in that classes for the Vassar last week industrialadministration. Poughkeepsie program will be announced receipt of a Other faculty members conducted on the Vassar $50,000 grant from IBM to from Schenectady and campus. The program's develop proposals for a adjunct faculty from the students will also have access cooperative graudate center Poughkeepsie area also to the Vassar Library and will for science and engineering participate in the program. continue to use the Vassar education in the Mid-Hudson searing performance. Lamb Named David J. Lamb, a native of Springfield, Mass., has joined Union College as campaign fund dire.ctor, Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the college, announced. A 1966 graduat~.~ of Union, Lamb retwned to. his alma mater from Washington College (M:d.), where he was assistant director of development. He is a member of the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve. computer. area. The announcement said Begun in 1966 with 120 conversations wer~ already ZELLMER'S NORGE students, the Poughkeepsie under way among the program is expected to have presidents of Vassar, Union, about 230 students this fall. Rensselaer Polytechnic The program had been Institute, and Syracuse housed at Dutchess County University. Community College, but The Union program in Prof. Thimm said the Poughkeepsie offers the pro gram's growth has Master of Science degree in exceeded the space available industrial administration and at DCCC. in operations research. Both \We are extremely grateful degrees involve studies in to Dr. James Hall, president engineering, statistics, and LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VIL.LAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. !at Hottie Street) DR'I' CLEANING 8 Lbs. _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ $2.00 4 Lb. Min.----·--- $1.00 DRYERS 1 0 Min. __ . _____ . _ . .10 WASHE;RS 1 2 lb. -- . - -- . - - • - • 30 20 Lb.--·---·--·- .35 3 0 lb. - - . - - - - - - . - . 50 OPEN - 8 A.M. to 10 P. M. Mon. to Sat.-1 0 A.M. to 6 P. M, Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL llE AMAZ~D OCTOBE'R •·J< Bl f > I ~ 1 \Butch • 1 S u ndanc l extreml r~ucously ' c t1mes, depiction exploits \ • century ' outlaws Etta Plact It is a I . of a peri< of life tl but is et• \' \\·~··,_ the imag ·. of genera who g '· . 1 C westerns • T.V. The a ~~ .· film stat I . •. \Paul Cassidy, Rober Katharin I think 1 you get Newman their p~ manner. romanti audienc' by thei and th depth pro fun charact The c< qualitie charact c Eve1 given treatn realisti think it Butch Sunda1 Paul Redfo surpri~ becaw few J varie howe' films fairl) persm a cl fortUI bette1 Frigg' her p given act. ~ more Newr react ot~et char ! prese ljl i I a hum Asid• as b this film G dire< ,., ',., has ' ligh1 man ., ~. rom thee usee

these ~s, no that ·ance. 1estly rellers each has them show onely 1bove lnight ewers ender neath Rat so :1 for in a n the 'eings have >ustin res he dJon ives a ed :~tive has ~ as ctor, rtin, lege, ~;of dto from rid.), ~tant 1ent. f the erve. .30 .35 .50 ndays . •. PAGE 5 Every Thursday Locals Lead Vigil Butch Cassidy Hits Proctors > I 1 ••Butch Cassidy and the 6. •' Sundance Kid\ is an I extremely humorous, raucously funny, _and. at ' c times, even h1lanous depiction of the picaresque exploits at the turn of the \ - century of the two famed outlaws and their girlfriend Etta Place. It is also a nostalgic view f of a period of time and a way 1 of life that no longer exists, but is eternally kept alive in .. \' the imaginations and dreams of generations of young boys i who grow up watching •, ·r·.~,,i westerns in the movies and on T.V. The advertisements for the ~\. , film state very cleverly that I \Paul Newman is Butch Cassidy, The Sundance Kid is Robert Redford, and Katharine Ross is Etta Place.\ I think this is just the feeling you get throughout the ftlm. Newman and Redford handle their parts in just the right \ ~;· manner. They play the two ' v;:~ romanticized anti-heroes with '\~'\ audience constantly damused 1 by their dialogue an antics , and the right amount of • (jl~ depth and reflective j ! profundity to give their 1 characters true humanity. ...,:, The combination of these qualities quickly endears both characters to the audience. Campy Treatment Even though the film is given a campy romantic treatment rather than a realistic one, I actually began thinking of the characters as Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid rather than as Paul Newman and Robert Redford. This is not that surprising in Redford's case, because he has been in only a few films and has played varied roles. Newman, however, has been in many films and has developed a fairly well-defined film personality. This role is quite a change for him, but fortunately it has come in a better vehicle than \Harry Frigg\ .Katharine Ross plays her patt well, but is actually given little opportunity to act. She seems to be present more as an object to which Newman and Redford can react and, thus, bring out other dimensions in their characters. When she is ~resent she also makes the ~ilarious duo into a humorously touching trio. Aside from this, Miss Ross is as beautiful as ever and for this alone her presence in the film can be appreciated. George Roy Hill's direction is quite good. He has directed the film in a very light-handed and fast-moving manner, creating a campy, romanticized, nostalgic effect theoughout the film. He has used and, indeed coordinated, By ROBERT ALAN LEVINE the screenplay, the acting, the photography, the editing, and the music extremely well to achieve this effect. Well-Drawn The screenplay by William Goldman is quite well-written. The title characters are well-drawn and the dialogue is constantly witty, amusing, and at times touching, causing reactions ranging from a smile or a chuckle to a belly-laugh. The photography is also excellent, ranging from panoramas of Cassidy and the Kid riding through mountains, deserts, and forests to a beautiful and offbeat sequence of Cassidy and Etta Place riding a bicycle through a pastoral setting; from an old-time newsreel done in film seemingly aged to archaic shades of brown showing Cassidy, the Kid, and their famous Hole in the Wall Gang robbing a train, to a montage of aged brown still photographs of the three protagonists in New York. Burt- Bacharach's music fits the story quite well, blending beautifully with the photography. The two of them at times creating and at times enhancing that campy, romanticized, and nostalgic mood that pervades the film. Go see ••Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.\ lt is a light, entertaining, and fun film which Newman, Redford, ·Hill, and company obviously enjoyed making. I'm certain that you will enjoy watching it. You might even refle.ct upon the enjoyment you once received from watching Hopalong Cassidy, Ken Maynard, Lash Larue, and Roy Rogers. By DANNY SHOCKET Since last July 3, the Noon Thursday was Schenectady Area Clergy and overcast. When we arrived at Laymen Concerned about the park, there were Vietnam have been holding approximately twenty people weekly vigils every Thursday, standing in a straight line, all 12 noon - 1 PM. at Veterans m i d d l e - a g e d a n d Memorial Park, the patch .of conservatively dressed. grass on State Street. The Someone was holding an o fficia:l circular proclaims American flag, and a priest, \this is a loving affirmation Father Murphy, was reading a that our nation must turn list of names. As we from militarism and death to approached, the gentleman at life and healing.\ the end smiled and moved New Faculty Members Cite Co-education~ Communication over for us, so we joined the line. ••pardon me, but what is he reading?\ ••Names and towns of the war dead. We feel it makes people reaware of the war.\ A prayer for nonbelievers. ByTONYFAGA The ne-w faculty at Union this term have been unusually candid in speaking out about the motives that brought them here. And co-education ranks high Oil their list. Thomas came here after a year of study at the Universitie d' Orleans-Tours, France. He did his undergraduate work at Hamilton College, and taught Modern languages for three years at the University of Buffalo. Thomas thinks that the modern language course would definately benefit by co-education. He also thinks that the perital regulations are good because \students should be able to make a choice between right and wrong by this time in their lives.\ Jan Ludwig was born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and he did his undergraduate work at Gettysburg College. Ludwig wanted a small school where .. 1 will have a chance to communicate with the students.\ One thing he noticed about Union was the small number of radical students. He attributed this to the fact that \there is no need for confrontation when you have communication between students and faculty. There is very much communication here.\ After standing on line for about five minutes, we were handed throwaways, and asked to distribute these sheets that explained the vigil to those on the corner. By now, it had started to rain, the frustrating drizzle that is attracted to rock concerts. Nobody left. Some had umbrellas that supplied shelter for three or four people; some had raincoats; some got wet. The readings continued, and the list was passed around so almost everyone read. Moratorium Prep4rations David Stinebeck comes to the faculty from Canada. Bran in Toronto, Stienbeck did his undergraduate work at Stamford University, and his graduate ·work at Yale University. Meanwhile, on the corner, I handed out the sheets with varying success. Almost everyone took one and hurried out of the rain. A few said no, thanks, and one offered the advice that they should all be sent to the front lines, they'd be less trouble. He made the whole thing worthwhile Continued from page 1 on the Vietnam war, at 9 and 11 a.m. in SS016, and a talk by Alan Brick, who recently returned from South Vietnam, will prelude the march, Merson said. A meeting with students and faculty supporting the moratorium will be held at 1 1:30 a.m. Tuesday in SS016, Merson said. Letters have been sent to faculty members requesting that they \encourage students not to attend class but to attend the moratorium,\ Merson said. Merson added that the Social Action Committee will meet with President Martin Monday afternoon to enlist administrative support for the moratorium. The committee also will present the issue to the Student Senate for approval, Merson said. The local effort will be part of a national moratorium involving more than 500 colleges conducting door-to-door campaigns. teach-ins, rallies and candelight parades. The movement is designed to escalate as the war continues, with two days in November, three in December, and so on. David Hawk, a spokesman for the Vietnam Moratorium Committee, said that \the evident cynicism of President Nixon's policies\ has generated \a new and growing constituency for the antiwar movement.\ Sam Brown, another committee spokesman, said in response to President Nixon's statement September 27 that he would not be affected by the protest: \'This is the kind of rigid stance which contributed so much to the bitterness of debate during the la5t days of the Johnson administration.\ The group, which has disavowed any connection with militant groups such as the Students for a Democratic Society, has received endorsement from several leading professors and legislators., including Senators Charles E. Goodell, Mark Hatfield, Eugene McCarthy, and George McGovern. Most of those endorsing the demo.nstration have praised its \nonviolent\ and \constructive\ aspects. A circular distributed by the Moratorium Committee and signed by more than 500 coll.ege student-body presidents and newspaper editors, says ·that \the discredited policies of the past which have brought about this American tragedy have not been changed ... thus it is necessary for all those wh.o desire peace to become active again and help bring pressure to bear on the present Administration.\ Stinebeck noted tl}at ••students are brighter than I expected, but everyone is more academically apathetic than I imagined.\ Daniel Driscoll returns to Union after an absence of three years. He said that .. the faculty here are more involved with the students than at any other school.\ Be believes co·education will make a good change in the type of discussions in class. He also believes that the regulations concerning peritals are good, as long as the reputation of the school is not harmed. At one o'clock the vigil ended. Everyone quietly left. Prof. Snider asked us if other Union students were corning. He had put up the flyers. We found out about a meeting to organize for the October 15 moratorium, on Tuesday at 11:30 in SS016. All are invited. A bus to Washington on Nov. 15 would ·be planned, also. There's another vigil scheduled for next Thursday. If nothing else, you can reaffirm a personal committment. -o\>\' urvtr- • S d 1. :~.. {1>~ Fore1.gn. tu ·. y ~ ~Programs of 1>c:-\'D£o\\\')l Syracuse University SPRING SEMESTER-1970 FRANCE· ITALY· NETHERLANDS SUMMER SESSIONS ·1970 School of Music-Switzerland School of Art-Florence School of Education-London College of Law-Amsterdam* Department of Photography -Munich Italian Language & Literature -Florence** . . *Graduate Credit Only Write fen brochure: **Undergraduate credit only Foreign Study Programs of Syracuse University 335 Comstock Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13210

PAGES Gridders Meet Mariners Seeking to rebound from Saturday's thrashing at the hands of St. Lawrence, the Garnet varisty football team will travel to Kings Point tomorrow to face the gridders of the Merchant Marine Academy. Gametime is 1:30 PM. Tomorrow's contest with the Mariners will be the eighth game in a series dating back to 1956, with the last By BILL HOLLERAN Union win corning in 1957, by a 28-12 score. Kings ,Point does not appear to be the same powerhouse that downed the Garnet last season on Alexander Field, 19-13, en route to an impressive 8-1 record. The Mariners were beaten in their season opener by Gettysburg, and in their last two starts have topped GRID STATISTICS RUSHING: Yds. Yds. Player Rushes Gd. Loss Net Ave. TDs JASZCZAK, FB 40 195 -4 191 4.8 1 SYKES, HB 37 128 -20 108 2.9 3 KIRKUP, FB 13 36 -1 35 2.5 0 BLOOM, HB 7 23 0 23 3.3 0 KERKHOFF, QB 4 7 -'12 -5 -0.6 0 PEARCE, QB 4 0 -31 -7.7 0 Union Totals 105 389 -68 321 3.1 4 Opp. Totals 85 266 -83 183 2,1 3 PASSING: Player Att. Comp. Yds. Had Int. TDs Conv. PEARCE,QB 59 26 178 3 1 0 KERKHOFF, QB 7 0 0 1 0 0 Union Totals 66 26 178 4 1 0 Opp. Totals 39 17 156 4 1 1 RECEIVING: Player Caught Yds. Gd. TDs Conv. KUMPF, E 13 90 0 0 SWAN,HB 5 40 1 0 SYKES, HB 4 28 0 0 GOULD,E 3 17 0 0 KIRKUP, FB 1 3 0 0 Union Totals 26 178 1 0 Opp. Totals 12 156 1 1 SCORING: Player TDs Conv. K Conv. R-P FG Pts. SYKES,HB 3 0 0 0 18 SWAN,HB 2 0 0 0 12 SABELLA,K 0 4 0 1 7 JASZCZAK, FB I 0 0 0 6 Union Totals 6 4 0 1 43 Opp. Totals 4 2 0 29 Speed Aids '73 Booters By MIKE HUMBER The Freshman soccer team opens its season today at Northwood Academy. With first-year coach Bob McMurray at the reins, the team has been practicing hard and long. On Wednesday; the team's efforts were rewarded in a convincing, come-from-behind scrimmage victory over Albany State. In commenting on the team, Coach McMurray said that although the boys have only worked together for five days, they have looked good in practice, However, the Coach wishes he had a little longer to prepare the team for its opener. Looking over the squad, the Coach felt the speed and ball handling of the front line would prove to be the team's greatest assets. He added that he had two front lines of almost equal strength and that this balance could become invaluable in wearing down opponents. On the whole, the team possesses great depth in all positions with the possible exception of the halfback slot. 'When asked if there were any really standout players on the squad, the Coach replied that so far none have emerged but that by the end of the season, he expects several will have shown themselves to be top-notch players. As for now, the Coach is counting on a tearr. effort. The schedule promises to be a rough one, with RPI and Co 1 gate looming as the toughest foes. Coach McMurray, however, feels that by playing a ball-control type of game with a short-pass offense, the team has a good shot at an undefeated season. Pennel Esso Service Not1 Street Corner Of VanVranken Norwich and Adelphi, neither of which are strong teams. Lavinia Impressive The Kings Pointers, however, are blessed with twenty-four returning lettermen, and sport a fine ground game, thanks mainly to the efforts of 6' -0\ 190 pound halfback Bob Lavinia, an impressive runner who riddled the Garnet defense in last year's contest. He should find the going a bit tougher tomorrow, however, at the hands of an even stingier Garnet defense, which has been shored up considerably by the return of linebacker Skip Lynch. Thus far this season the rock-hard Garnet defense has allowerl only 183 yards on the ground and 156 yards in the air, and has intercepted four opposition aerials. The defense stifled the St. Lawrence attack last week, after a shaky first quarter in which the Larries showed off a flashy running game and mammoth offensive line, marching 80 yards in eleven plays for a score. After their initial tally, however, the Larries could manage only twenty-one offensive plays and two first downs, scoring on two intercepted passes instead. The Larries could not penetrate the rugged Garnet secondary either, clicking on only one of six passes. Garnet Runners Strong On offense, the Garnet running game has showed muscle, with the running backs grinding out 321 yards thus far. Bruising sophomore full-back Rich Jaszczak leads the way, with 191 yards gained in forty carries for a Anyone interested ' tn working for Concordiensis Business Staff please contact Carl Golds and 372-5183 or 346-9959 OCTOBER 3, 1969 Boot Tops Alfred, 3-1; o~ke.llo lost F,or Season By HANK LEVINE Union's varsity soccer team dtfeated a squad from Alfred Tuesday, by a score of 3-l. Coach Brown claimed, however, \We didn't play as well as we should have.\ ln chalking up the victory the Garnet lost their big scoring punch, Bob Okello, for the sparkling 4.8 yards-per-carry .average. The Garnet passing game, :h<Jwever, has not been up to par. Quar.terback Ken Pearce h a.s t o s s e d o n 1 y 2 6 cotnpletions in 59 attempts, well below his 50% cotnpletion average of last season, and has been intercepted three times. The Garnet's chances for a win tomorrow will hinge on whether the offense, particularly the passing attack, can rebound from its lethargic performance of last week, which saw Pearce go 16 for 40 and also witnessed the fiZzling of two Garnet scoring drives within the thirty yard-line late in the game. The Dutchmen, as usual, will be tough on defense, and will hold the IGngs Point score down. Thus it will be up to the offense to get untracked and score the points necessary to beat the Mariners and boost Union's record over the 500 mark. remainder of the season due to a knee injury. The game against Alfred was played in a strong wind, which proved to be a tremendous factor; all four scores were in one goal. Union's scoring was spread out throughout the game against the sub-par Alfred team. Chris Swan's corner kick, Pierre Roumain's score in the second quarter, and Bobby Dodd's tally in the fourth period accounted for Union's three goals. Among Coach Brown's standouts are: Chris Swan and Art Frazier at haltback, Pete Palen and Harold Wheeler at fullback, and Dave Block at goalie. Face Trinity Next With the loss of Okello for the remainder of the season, the Garnet boaters have a tall bill to fill. Coach Brown is hoping that the other members of the squad can take Bob's place and with the new rule concerning the eligibility of freshmen, he also has the option to use any of the frosh hooters. In his own words, \Now we'll see if we can pick up the slack.\ The Garnet squad will get a chance next Thursday, when they travel to Trinity, one of the best teams on their circuit. BLOW YOURSELF UP Black and White 2 ft. X 3ft. $ 2 Poster cnly (~4.95 value) with plastic frame $4 ($7.95 value) THE GREAT NEW SWINGLINE tiJB® HAND STAPLER Designed to fit the palm. Portable. ONLY $1.69, With 1000 staples, $1.S8. Send any black & white or color photo up to 8\ x: 10\ (no nega· tives) and the name \Swingline\ cut from any Swingline stapler or staple refill package to: Poster· Mart, P. 0. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 11377. Enclose cash, check or money order (no C.O.D.'s) in the amount of $2.00 for each blow-up; $4.00 for blow-up and frame as shown. Add sales tax where applicable. Original material returned undamaged. Satisfaction guaranteed. Allow 30 days for delivery. THE GREAT SWINGLINE TOT~TAPLER The world's largest selling stapler yet no larger than a pack of gum. 0 N l y 98¢ with 1000 FREE staples! THE GREAT SWINGLINE CUB® DESK STAPlER A real heavy-weight with a compact build. ONLY $1.69, With 1000 staples, $1,98. ® I N.C. VOL.99,1 Ma1 Fac~ Presiden approved th~ action of th Action C October 15, VietnamMo The pia screenings o! a march th Schenectad Park, and Vietnamc prisoners. The A< also called meeting he this mor students o: plans and Last night, meeting in Library in communit) march and for that da '. .. Fac Barry 1 of the } met with staff o departmer their reqt BoaJ 197~ Two congressi< Albany may lead organizat Schen~ Democra congress incumb DanielE If th Dave Na Albany early lea Democn the 2~ District Board, . Depart Science. Boar• the Alb leaders. flat pre was en workin! the ble Chairm Nathan receive~ the pu receive

h f l 1 f r Founded at Union College 1877 VOL 99, NO .. 8 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, OCTOBER 7,1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Martin Approves Moratorium; Faculty Cozmcil Meets Today Think Tank Chief Explains ABM Role President Martin has approved the campus plan for action of the Student Social Action Committee on October 15, the day of the Vietnam Moratorium. The plan includes s:ix screenings of an anti-war film, a march through downtown Schenectady to Veteran's Park, and a talk on South l . V~etnamese political pnsoners. The Action Committee also called the student body meeting held in the Chapel this morning to inform students of the committee's plans and call for support. Last night, the group held a meeting in the Schenectady Library in an attempt to stir community support for the march and canvassing planned for that day. Faculty Council Barry Katzman, president of the Action Committee, met with members of the staff of the Biology department earlier today at their request to explain the Board Gets 1970 Edge Two unsuccessful congressional campaigns by Albany County Democrats may lead that county's party organization to support a Schenectady County Democrat in next year's congressional race against incumbent Congressman Daniel E. Button. lf that is the case, says Dave Nathan, writing in the Albany Times Union, the early lead in the race for the Democratic nomination in the 29th Congressional District is held by Joseph B. Board, Jr., Chairman of the Department of Political Science. Board met recently with the Albany democratic party leaders. He did not receive a flat promise of support, but was encouraged to continue working for it. He already has the blessing of Schenectady Chairman George V. Palmer. Nathan says that if Board receives a good response from the public, he is likely to receive \the support of the Continued on page 3 By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. committee's proposed plan of action. He said that a delegation from the committee had been invited to appear before the Faculty Council meeting later this afternoon. It is expected that the Council will decide faculty policy toward the Moratorium in general and the Committee's campus plan. Katzman said that his group was not calling for a student strike., but was requesting professors to schedule no exams or vital lessons on October 15. It is imperative that people who feel they cannot attend classes that day in good conscience not be penalized, he said. Pres. Martin stated at this open forum last week that he did not favor an official closing of the college for the Moratorium. Allen :Brick The student Senate, not yet organized, is scheduled to meet October 13 to discuss the ·issue. Elections to the se11ate are now being held. The anti-war film to be shown is entitled \The War Game\. Allen Brick, a member of a group of Americans who recently investigated South Vietnamese prison camps, will talk on \South Vietnamese Political Prisoners\. The march willleav!-l from the Nott Memorial and pass through downtown Schenectady, to end a silent vigil in Veteran's Park. That afternoon, students are being urged to \ring doorbells and canvass in support of peace in Vietnam.\ By NEILS. KRAMER One of the principal founders of the Hudson Institute defended a thick anti-ballistic missle system for American cities as one of the cornerstones of an alternative American foreign policy. Max Singer spoke at a Union-Skidmore International Relations Club meeting last night at the Social Sciences Building auditorium. The Hudson Institute is a private think tank that does research on pressing military, social, political, and environmental problems. Mr. Singer told the group of over 100 students and faculty that the current policy of \sure deterrence,\ which was originated by Robert MeN amara and supported by both Presidents Johnson and Nixon, depends crucially on \both the United States and the Soviet Union having a highly reliable ability to destroy the other society with nuclear weapons.\ Mr. Singer said the balance of terror in the present arrangement was both unsure and dangerous ... If by some unaccounted-for cause we have a war, then there are going to be a lot of dead people.'' Although he is also bothered by the moral question involved in threatening civilian populations in urban centers, \the key to preventing the spread of nuclear weapons is to make them appear undesireable and unnecessary .... to make them useless in international relations,\ he said. The arms control theorist outlined a five-point alternative to the present policy of massive nuclear deterrence: Youngbloods Perform Sa~. * \Reduced use of Nuclear threats. * \Reduced policy reliance on nuclear weapons. * \Reduced emphasis on threats against civilian populations. The \Y oungbloods\ will be the featured entertainment during homecoming weekend October 10-12. They will give a concert Saturday, October 1l, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The group got its start during regular stints at the Cafe Au Go Go in New York City. It consists of three members, Jesse Colin Young, Joe Bauer and Banana. Young, born in New York City is the lead vocalist and bass. Forceful and outspoken, he is called the leader of the group even though it has no real leader. Night Watchman Joe Bauer was night watchman in a chocolate factory in 1964. He quit his job and joined the \Y oungbloods\ in Boston, becoming their drummer. Banana, the most serious member of the group, plays electric piano and guitar. A perfectionist, he studied classical piano as a child. As Cash Box described them in their July, 19 issue, \The Y oungbloods literally made musical love to their audience, gently immersing them in beautifully-textured waves of voice and instrumentation.\ The group is known for its \good time sound\ as exemplified by their hit single \Get Together\ and their repetoire includes Ballads, ragtime, quite jazz and undissonant rock. Other Events Along with the Y oungbloods other events of the weekend will include a Hitchcock film, a Marx Brothers film, a football game with Rochester, and an Organ Recital by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson. The recital will be given at 4:30p.m. Sunday afternoon in Memorial Chapel. Tickets for the Youngblood's concert are on sale now at Student Activities Office, the Rathskeller, all fraternities, and from R.A.'s * \Efforts to avoid attacks on civilian populations in case war comes. * \Much greater emphasis on preventing the spread of nuclear weapons.\ Mr. Singer noted that in planning policy for the 1980s and 1990s, political, s o c i o 1 o g i c a l , a·n d psychological reasons have to be developed through U.S. policy to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. In two or three decades, \the cost of nuclear weapons would be inconsequential and 20 or 30 countries would be able to have them,\ he said. The deployment of a thick ABM system to protect American population concentrations is crucial, Mr. Singer said, because it would force the Soviet Union to spend much more for offensive weapons than he expects then to be likely to be able to afford. He characterized Soviet military policy as \essentially defensive.\ Their primary concern is defending their homeland and the \quasi-empire\ they hold in Eastern Europe rather than obliterating the United Continued on page 3

PAGE 2 B p -...-_.\1 !f~ J Nl~ows I ~A-R~o • Never in the recollection of any member of the staff of Concordiensis, has a letter to the editor been more welcome and well-received than the letter from President ;\lartin and several faculty members that is published today. We recognize that there are considerable circumstances that make it difficult for these gentlemen to make a statement of this nature. And we recognize that some have set aside set attitudes on public statements. But that should only impress the national leaders in Washington that fewer and fewer consciences can rest while American and Vietnamese lives and fortunes are being wasted for the sake of vanity and truculence. The names of the villians responsible for the continuation of the war are known to us all. It is both comforting and gratifying to know that men we respect for their learning have decided to disclose to us and. to the broader community what had been provate thoughts. Their candor is not only an indication of broadening consensus against the war, but promises an even more forthright conduct in campus affairs. .. Those who m a k e peace J u 1 revolutio11 impossible make violent reDolution i11evitahle.\ ~i(j'· ~-:; .... ~'1-- 0lonror uitr,t qs ~irn.at!:l ('>o'-:r11& ~~J-Y.· Published Tuesday and Fnday during the Union College academtc year by the Student Body of Union College. Schenectady. New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students In residence at Union ·College. National Advertising Repr£>sentative: National Educational Advertising Service. Inc .• CoHege Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue. N.Y.C. Editonal Office. Old Gym, Unioa College. Publication Offic~. Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co .. Inc .. 416·418 Fifth Ave .• Troy. 235·44E>O. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Nail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year deliverEd anywhere in the United States. NEILS. KRA\IER Editor-ill-Chief HENRY FEIN .................... . Managing Editor CARL GOLDSAND ............... Business Manager RICHARD E. PATTERSON JR. .......... News Editor WILLIAM OUZER ................ Executive Editor PETER WEINGOLD ................ Features Editor BILL HOLLERAN ................... Sports Editor JODY SASLOW ................ Photography Editor OCTOBE H 7, 1969 Letter: Support For Oct. 15 We, the undersigned, support the actions and intentions of the Student Social Action Committee. As members of the Union College Faculty, we wrge the cooperation of the entire Union College Community with the programs planned for the Viet Nam Moratorium as outlined by the Student Social Action Committee in Concordiensis, October 3, 1969 Harold C. Martin W. D. Roth Carl Niemeyer Hugh Wilson C. Graves David j. Snyder Charles S.Olton Frederick Hartwig Robert S harlet Donald R. Thurston Eric Hanse11 Paul Urbaa R. Rappaport D. C. Miller Henry M. Butzer Peter Erskine Carl J. George Beatles New \Abbey Road\: Music For Your Listening Music is a language. (an original line) Music is long hair mind. Music is beat. Music is feet. Music is animal. Music is a trip. Word association. Word-things are very hard to use when describing music. Music is suggestion. To you, music suggests dance/soul/ beat/ groove blah blah blah while to me, music. suggests p e a c e / v o y a g e I c o m· munication. The new Beatles album, .. Abbey Road\ was bombed by The New York Times. Which supposedly means a great deal in that Tile New York Times speaks for today's youth (a little sarcasm there). In any case, now I'll tell you about the album. \Abbey Road\ has no message (that's clearly visible· so you can say to your friends in a pendant tone that John & Paul said blah blah blah and that means that the world will blow up in 1980 and in 3 days, everybody will start saving all their pennies, and in 3 weeks, there will be anarchy because there are no pennies · (great); \Abbey Road\ is no trend-setter (at least now it isn't); \Abbey Road\ isn't psychedelic for all you plastic fantastic lovers out there; \Abbey Road,. isn't a $2.98 trip in a cardboard cover (except for some crazy people like me who dig almost all music) (except opera blah); it's just some music that they've laid down and then you sit down and listen to it. Possible, the main idea behind the record is for you to decide YOURSELF whether YOU like the album, not whether Cousin Brucie likes it and tells you to but it 'cos it's nifty and keen and cool and spiffy. I think they tried this idea with the previous \The B eatles\ album; there was no soft-sell cover with psychedelic By M. GROSS!viAN pictures blah bl:ah blah, just a plain, white cover (you've all seen it). The same thing that Bylan, smiling even, is doing on his cover; '\this is music, not money\. As for the music itself, it seems simp! e and this impression, although the music is not simple, is received in this manner. It's the type of thing that you can sit back an<! listen to and not give to necessarily hassle with words :and get the background whispers etc ... but it's easy-following and suitable background music for rapping. If you want variety, listen to the difference between \I Want You (she's so heavy)\ DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Ita I ia11 food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The lbownell Gate on Nott Street Open Oail y 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. and \Octopus Garden\. If you need to delve into words and get up-tight because you can't figure them o11t unless you stay up all night, listen to \Come Together\. If you want romance, grab on to Something'' and ~'Because\. A really good and extremely paradoxical song is \Golden Slumbers\ a loud luUaby. - That's the record. YOU decide whether you like it. Or you don't If somebody asks you what the front cover means, tell them that they're training for the army on Abbey Rd. (that's where Apple's recording studios are - don't try to get in because the man will get you). Professional Typing Service IBM Selectric. Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typing Doctoral theses. Reasonable rates. Dependable. Call 489-6978 any time. Sound 169 Jay St. WE CARRY TEAC,REVOX,SANSUI PIONEER, BENJAMIN MIRACORD, AR, SONY and others Call Us At 374-5367 OCTOBER 7, 1 I A coll(lge l must he very heterogeneit~ the quality cmiformly P' then at leas no olle of r lf, on the 1 good pieces with pieces literary c quality, the pieces, unf suffer by th In Idol edition Literary exceptio juxtaposed good. 1 unfortunat1 authors worthwhile If, in sif sands of occasion all some thin! intellectua then the been wort] The !at contains t exception: Wilsc Orge1 Hugh. chairman of the Organisl present tl six. orgm College Sunday a The c public wi The series three-yel include • French 20thCeJ \)~ Work Sunday' by Joha and Fu two c· Di etr Concert the Nil Frederi1 the Lor and Pr1 major b The series Sunday 5 Mon.

i9 '·· • If ds )U ~ss to :>u to ~\. ~ly en )U Or ou ns, ing td. e's n't !all -, 1d of in es. s. ~ OCTOBER 7, 1969 The Good Mus,:f Suffer A .college literary magazine must be very careful as to the heterogeneity of its works. If the quality of the works is 1:1niformly poor or mediocre then at least by comparison no one of the works suffers. If, on the other hand, very good pieces are contiguous with pieces of exceptional literary or intellectual quality, then the very good pieces, unfortunately, must suffer by the comparison. In Idol III, the latest edition of the College Literary Magazine, the exceptional has been juxtaposed with the very good. This is rather unfortunate for several of the authors but nonetheless worthwhile for the readers. If, in sifting through the sands of mediocrity one is occasionally rewarded with something almost wholly intellectually satisfying in, then the search has indeed been worthwhile. The latest issue of the Idol contains two pieces of such exceptional quality. The first By PETER J. WEINGOLD is a translation of one of lngmar Bergman's stories: \A Short Tale ~bout One of Jack the Ripper's Earliest Childhood Memories.\ This is the first time the work, translated by Prof. Frank Gado of the Union English Department, has been published in the United States. Then merely as a story, it is engrossing and beautifully drawn. If the full implications of the suggestive tale are realized it becomes something much more; something worth deeply pondering. Scott Siegler, former Editor of the Idol, in an article entitled: \Relevancy and Committee: an essay,\ presents arguments which every student who has ever considered taking over a university building, and every college administrator, would be wise to read and think about. pi·e c e s but disappointed paucity. somehow by their Continued from page I States, he said. The RYssians have always spent more on ·defensive arms than the United States, he BLITHER The College Student's Poetry Anthology closing date for the submission of manuscripts is November 5 .. ANY STUDENT attending either junior or senior college is eligible to submit his verse. There is no limitation as to form or theme. Shorter works a1:e preferred by the Board of Judges, because of space limitations. Each poem must be TYPED or PRINTED on a separate sheet, and must bear the NAME and HOME ADDRESS of the student, and the COLLEGE ADDRESS as well. Entrants should also submit the name of ENGLISH INSTRUCTOR. Manuscripts should be sent to the Office of the Press, National Poetry Press, 3210 Selby Avenue, Los Angeles, California, 90034. THERE WILL BE AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING OF THE DELPHICS AT 11:30 A.M. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9th IN THE PHI BETA KAPPA ROOM IN THE LIBRARY. PLEASE BE THERE. of six defferent test dates during the current academic year. The first testing date for the GREis October 25, 1969. Scores from this administration will be reported to the graduate schools before December 1, Students planning to register for the October test date are advised that applications received by ETS afto:!r October 7 will incur a $3.00 late registration fee. After October 10, there is no guarantee that applications for the October test date can be processed. The other five test dates are December 13, 1969; January 17, February 28. April 25 and July 11, 1970. Equivalent late fee and registration deadlines apply to these dates. Choice of test dates should be determined by the requirements of graduate schools or fellowships to which one is applying. Scores are usually reported to graduate schools five weeks after a test date. PAGE3 added. \Until recently, most l)f their bombers and missles were aimed towards Europe,\ where they saw a threat in NATO, not at the mainland United States. H e p r e d i c ted t hat \internal social and economic problems\ would change the nature of Soviet leadership and policies, with the result that the present policy .of nuclear deterrence would no longer be effective. An ABM system would protect many of the people in our nation in the case of nuclear war. \If war breaks out, we cannot expect to be free of many deaths, no matter what kind of defensive system we install. ''President Nixon's Safeguard system does not aim to give this even kind of protection to population cities\ he said, and safeguard would only be useful in giving the United States the know-how to install a thick ABM quickly, '\say four or five years rather than eight or nine.\ Mr. Singer 38, is a graduate of Columbia College and Harvard Law School. He is a member of the bar in New York State and in the District of Columbia. Wilson To Give Organ Concert Hugh Allen Wilson, acting chairman of the department of the arts and Union's Organist-in-Residence will present the first in a series of six organ recitals at Union College Memorial Chapel Sunday at 4 p.m. These two articles make Idol III a noteworthy endeavor by Editors Paul Andrews and James Lie b. The entire magazine is a well .put together, hard to put dowa literary quarterly. The storyr by Les Petrovics and several of the poems and photographs are also praise worthy. The total effect of Idol Ill is such that onoe comes away feeling exhilarated by the exceUeat Educational Testing Service announced today that undergraduates and others preparing to go to graduate school may take the Graduate Record Examinations on any Soard Heads '70 Race The concert is open to the public without charge. The 1969-1970 recital series is the last in a three-year cycle, and will include a heavy emphasis on French organ music of the 20th Century. Works scheduled for this Sunday's concert are Ciacona by Johann Pachelbel, Prelude and Fugue in A minor and two chorale preludes by Dietrich Buxtehude, Concerto 13 (the Cuckoo and tile Nightingale) by George Frederick Handel, Nativity of the Lord by Olivier Mueeiaen, and Prelude and Fugue in B major by Marcel Dupre. The second concert in the series is scheduled for Sunday, November 23. Community Calendar Tim Harden: Folk Sin15~r will be at Aerodrome, Central Avenue, Friday Night. Johnny Cash: Performing at RPI Field House, Troy, Saturday, 8:30PM Organ Recital: Professor !Iugh Wilson will give a recital in the Chapel, Sunday at 4:00. Moving Pictures- Locally BLACKMAIL: In SS Ol6this Friday, 8 PM. Stars Anny Ondra and Sara Allgood. 75c. DUCK SOUP: In SS 016 S.unday, 9:15 and 7:00. 75c. MIDNIGHT COWBOY: Begins last week at the State- Dustin Hoffman and John Voight. BUTCH CASSIDY A~D THE SUNDANCE KID: Paul Newman and Katherine Retss and HOMBRE with Newman again- Proctors ·last show tonight. MEDIUM COOL: Begin~ tomorrow in Troy at the Cinema Art, worth the trip. LAST SUMMER: Schenectady Times Union calls this deep and upsetting. Last showin:151onight at Hellmans in Albany. Continued from page 1 two county parties sometime next Spring\. Erase Plurality The Albany Democrats, twice beaten by Button, seem to feel that by giving U:e nomination to a Schenectady candidate, they could erase the large Republican plurality in Schenectady County, whlle Albany Democrats at least \break even\ against Button. Last year, against Albany- Attorney Jacob He1Zog, Button carried Albany county by 9,000 votes and KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATIO'N 717 Nott Street We Cater To Unio~ 5tudents lOa~ Service Discoun1 NEWEST LU~CH 71.5 Albany Street Specializing: ACME BARBER SHOP - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES -. TAKE-OUT ORDERS 509 Union St'reet - Union Students Favorite Spot - EXPER IENCEb BARBERS (Serving Schenectady Since 19211 Mort.-Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri.·Sat. 7 A.M.·¢ A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.-1 A.M. Nearest to Union College Students Schenectady County by 22,000 votes. In 1 966 against Richard Conners, he won a plurality of 18,000 votes in Schenectady County and lost Albany County by 1 ,000 votes. Button has not yet announced if he intends to seek a third term. \Go see 'Putney Swope'. Tells it like i1s never been told before.\·Judith Crist \PUTNEY SWOPE\ The Truth i!nd Soul Movie Starts Fri. Oct. 10

PAGE 4 [ON TOD.AY'S SC:ENE\ with BILL HOLLERAN Many people around campus are probably asking themselves, after Saturday's dismal grid showing down on.Long Island, \What happened to the football team at Kings Point'?'' The answers are to be found not here, but in an interview between Coach George Flood and a reporter of the Schenectady Ga1:ette. Coach Flood, quoted in the Saturday·edition of the Gazette. elaborated on two key factors on which he felt the Garnet would have to concentrate in order to win Saturday's football game. Coach Flood's game plan was simple ... Our approach,\ he said, \is to find out if we can move the ball on the ground against them.\ The spirited Garnet ground game, which had rolled up 321 yards in two games and which featured bruising fullback Rich Jaszczak, with 191 yards to his credit, was shackled from the outset by the imprenetrable Kings Point defense. So frustrated were the Garnet backs that they could manage only a horrendous rushing total of ~36 yards gained. _ \The Kings Point offense is basically a running offense,\ continued Coach Flood, \but I think that they would approach us in the same way that St. Lawrence did--they've got to stop our passing game.\ That the Mariner defense did, and in grand style, so that the Garnet passers were completely frutstrated all afternoon. Ken Pearce, who was not his usual accurate self against St. Lawrence last week, hit on only 3 of 12 attempts this week, while Dan Kerkhoff managed only two completions in 12 tries. Union's 5 for 24 effort in the air netted the Garnet only 41 yards, and lowered their overall completion average to a dismal thirty percent. Thus, when people wonder what happened to the Garnet gridders in Saturday's contest, they have to look no further than Coach Flood's game plan. He expected his offense to establish a running attack, and then riddle the Mariner defense with passes. The team, however, did neither of these, and was therefore trounced by the Mariners. Explaining the overall leth.argy of the offense, however, is not such a cut-and-dried task. Last season quarterback Ken Pearce was blessed with one of the finest corps of receivers in the ECAC's Division III. Craig Carlson at Flanker, ran wild with Pearce's throws in his first two games of last season, only to be knocked out of his collegiate football career by a damaging knee injury. At split end, shifty and speedy Rich Swan, the ECAC Division III Sophomore of the Year in 1967 and a Little All-America honorable mention, left no doubts as to his receiving talents. With such fine backup men as Art Jacobs and Dan Gould, Pearce had no trouble finding an open receiver during last season. No team among Union's competition could find enough defenders to cover both Carlson and Swan; if one was double-covered the oth.er invariably worked his way into the clear. These hordes of open Garnet receivers explained to a large extent Pearce's fifty percent completion average oflast year. This season, however, things are different for Pearce. Carlson, of course, is gone, leaving Swan and talented sophomore Mike Kumpf at the wide receiver posts. Kumpf has shown much potential in this season's early going, ar.d has caught a lot of passes. He is, however, no Craig Carlson. Thus, enemy defenders are now double-covering the dangerous Swan, and Pearce can no longer pick and choose his receivers. In the backfield, things have also changed. Last season, the Garnet possessed fine inside running in the persons of Joe James and Larry Sykes, and brilliant outside running in the person of Gerry Ostrander. James, who graduated, and Ostrander, who transferred, are gone this season, leaving Sykes and big, fast sophomore Rich Jaszczak at the running backs. Neither of these runners, however, possess the speed or the outside running skill of Ostrander, and because the Garnet are now forced to go up the middle more frequently, the opposing defenses can now stack up the inside of the line and thus hold down Union rushing totals. Thus it is apparent that personnel deficiences have, in a large part, contributed to the offensive lethargy of the Garnet so far this season. 6 For three Generations.~' fhose Who Know ••. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER A\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY OCTOBER 7, 1969 Kings Point Shackles Gridders, 2 3-3 In an exercise of offensive futility, the Garnet football team closed out its rivalry with the Mariners of Kings Point on Saturday, e&caping from Long Island on the short end of a 23·3· score. The two teams will not meet again next y<;:ar or in the near future, as Middlebury will replace the Mariners on the Union slate starting in 1970. The Kings Point defense completely overwhelmed the Garnet attack, which showed signs of anemia last week against St. Lawrence, by holding the Dutchmen to a mere five yards in total offense. The Garnet backs probably wish they had never made the trip down to Kings Point, as they were hauled down time and again behind the line of scrimmage and managed a less-than-dazzling total of -36 yards in rushing. The passing attack did not do much better, garnering only 41 yards through the air and hitting on only 5 of 24 attempts, with Ken Pearce going 3 for 12 and his substitute, Dan Kerkhoff, 2 for 12. The Mariner attack, on the otherhand, proved, to be as robust as the defense, grinding out 259 yards on the ground. Backs Joe Martucci, who gained 70 yards and scored two touchdowns, and Ron Adams, who piled up 118 yards and scored once, ran to daylight all afternooN. The Mariners ·aid not waste any time in scoring, tallying on a 39-yard field goal by linebacker Don Cocozza early in the first quarter. The three-pointer capped off a thirty-nine yard Kings Point march. The contest then lapsed into a defensive struggle, until the Mariners got going once again late in the first period, driving 78 yards f0r the score. The march culminated five minutes into the second quarter, when Martucci sliced into the end zone from one yard out. Cocozza converted to make the score 10-0, Kings Point. In the closing seconds of the half the Garnet offense moved deep into Kings Point territory, one of the few times during the contest. The drive sputtered, however, and the Dutchmen had to settle '72 Sooters Win Opener by MIKE HUMBER Union's freshman soccer team opened its season on a winning note with an 8-2 victory at Northwood Academy on Friday. The front line lived up to pre-season expectations as it controlled the ball through most of the game and rattled the Northw.ood goal with numerous shots. Defensively, the team turned in a fine game, holding the opposition scoreless in the second half. Special praise must go to the Union goalies as they blocked many Northwood attacks on goal. Garnet Take The Lead After allowing Northwood to take an early 1-0 lead, Bob Kosier started things off for the Garnet with a game-tying shot. Pete Foy and Paul Martini then pulled Union into an insurmountable lead as they each scored two goals. Northwood, however, came back with a tally to make the half-time score read 5-2, Union. During the second half the team began to jell, as the boaters played as a complete unit. Bob Bernhardt scored on two penalty kicks and Britt Iustus wrapped up the scoring on a corner kick. Having trouble adjusting to Northwood's small field, the Garnet were slow getting untracked, but once they did, the Dutchmen gave a creditable showing. Union students will be able to see the squad in action tomorr.ow on Garis Field when the booters meet New Paltz. Gametime is 3:00P.M. Pennel Esso Servi(e Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranken LUIGI'S .-R EST A U R A N T SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sinli ng Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cockt.,il Bar for a twenty-six yard field goal, courtesy of the strong, accurate toe ·of Jim Sabella. The Garnet tally did not affect the Mariners, however, as the sailors drove 80 yards with the second-half kickoff to take a coJTilllanding 16-3 edge. Adams fled' 17 yards for the touch,down, b1:1t Cocozza's ¢t>nversion went wide. With their backs to the wall at this point, the Garnet needed to get something going on offense immediately. Larry Sykes sealed the Garnet fate, however, when he fumbled the kickoff, with Mariner Joe Luchetta falling on the loose ball at the Garnet 22 yard-line. Five plays later Martucci all but ended the contest, blasting over from the one to give Kings Point their 23-3 margin of victory. Saturday's· loss dropped the Garnet below the .500 mark, for the first time in eleven contests, to an unattractive 1-2 record. Coach George Flood's gridders will face another stern test this coming Saturday, when they host the Yellowjackets of Rochester before a Homecoming crowd on Alexander Field. BLOW YOURSELF UP Black and White 2 ft. x 3 ft. P~ster ~nly ($4.95 value) with plastic frame $4 {$7.95 value) Send any black & white or color photo up to 8\ x 1 0\ (no negatives) and the name \Swingline\ cut from any Swingline stapler or staple refill package tC': Poster-Mart, P. 0. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 11377. Enclose cash, check or money order (no C.O.D.'s) in the amount of $2.00 for each biO'o'f·up; $4.00 for blow-up and frame as shown. Add sales tax where applicable. Original material returned undamaged. Satlsfac· tlon guaranteed. AlloW' 30 days for delivery. ~~· ® ~~ INC. 32.(]0 SKILlMMiAVENUE. &.OtiG ISLAND.CITt, H.V. 11101 ! ' Founded at Union College 1 VOL. 99, NO. 9 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, OCTOBER 10, 1 Faculty Council Decides Senate To ;• Against Class Stoppages For Viet Moratorium Day A pass-fail system which I ou th The faculty council voted Tuesday to ask President Martin to issue a statement announcing that classes will not be suspended for the Vietnam Moratorium Day on October 15. The President asked, however, that professors impose no penalties on students who are absent from classes to participate in Moratorium activities. The vote came after Barry Katzman, a spokesman for the moratorium, outlined the Committee's plans before the council meeting. He stated that the Social Action Committee, not wishing to disrupt the educational process, decided not to call a student strike. Katzman urged that no tests be scheduled for that day because for many students, the moratorium is a moral committment. According to Professor Bristol, Secretary of the Faculty Council, the college is remaining neutral on the moratorium issue. This was confirmed by a statement released by President Martin Wednesday: \Students and faculty members deeply concerned about terminating the war in Vietnam plan a program and march ... on October 15. I believe this is an entirely appropriate activity for them. I also believe that the college itself, as art institution, should not commit itself to political positions or act in such a way as to require or appear to require participation .by anyone in this kind of protest.\ Normal Responsibility \'Therefore the Pn;lsident continued, \classes will not be suspended, and all members of the faculty and staff should observe their Senate Election Nominating petitions for off-campus Student Senators are due in Mr. Marra's office in Student Activities on Thursday, October 16. Elections for the seven off-campus senators will be held in Student Activities the following day, October, 17 from 8:30-4:30. A Student Senate meeting will be held Monday, October 13 at 7:30 in the Music Room of the Humanities Buildings. normal responsibility toward would allow a student two regular duties on October 15. courses per year outside his I do ask, however, that major on a pass-fail basis will instructors recognize the be discussed at a Student importance of this movement Senate meeting Monday of conscience to many and night, October 13, in the imposenotpenaltiesonthose Music Room of the who absent themselves from Humanities Building. class for the program According to Don Kessler, planned. Should an instr11ctor President of the student and his class agree on the body, the pass-fail system desirability of participation would be instituted primarily by the entire group, to extend stuaent arrangements for a substitute responsibility in academic session of the class will be the affairs. appropriate procedure for James Palmer, Dean of making up lost time.\ Center 11, although in favor In other action, the of the pass-fail system Faculty Council referred expressed some reservations questions on the grading about it. system to the Curricular Kessler said that students Affairs Committee. The would be working for what committee will make a study they could get out of courses of the grading system and all not for the grade that alternatives and report to the otherwise would appear on Faculty Council by the their transcripts. The pass-fail beginning of the Winter system would also encourage re, st1 \r se rr ir st c c d r c Term. students to take courses Allen, Others Sign W The John Bigelow Professor of History at Union College wants to go on record as a supporter of the October 15th Moratorium, and he petitioned his colleagues Thursday to join him. Neal W. Allen, Jr., said he was alarmed that a letter signed by 17 members of the Union faculty including President Harold C. Martin, would give the impression .. that these members of the Faculty alone represent a publicly voiced opposition to the war in VietNam.\ Forty two additional Union faculty members signed a second letter, circulated by Prof. Allen on Thursday and he had not collected the responses from eight of the College's academic departments. \I was really dismayed that we did not have the opportunity to sign the original petition,\ Prof. Allen said. Prof. Allen holds the only endowed professorship in history at Union. A specialist in medieval and early modern British and European history, he is the president of the Union College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. \I told my class today that I'm not by temperment a marcher. On Wednesday, the most effective thing that I feel I can do will be to spend as much time as possible writing to people in By NEILS. KRAMER government, to legisl~tors, to newspapers, expressmg my feelings about the war,\ Allen said. The 42 faculty members signed a statement that was somewhat different than that published in the Concordiensis, on Tuesday. The original petition was circulated by the Student Social Action Committee, who are coordinating moratorium activities at the college. Barry Katzman, president of the student group coordinating moratorium . ',.-- Neal Allen, leader of the fa, the Oct. 15 moratorium.

PAGB 2 Academ:ic Responsibility The peaceful revol~:~tion at Union continues. Next l\londay night, the Student Senate will discuss a proposal which will allow students to take two courses per year outside their rnajor fidd on a pass-fail basis. There has long been a need at this co'tlege to shift the focus of studies from \grade grubbing\ to learning. \Vi thin the present grading structure of most undergraduate and graduate institutions the student who may wish to expand his knowledge or satisfy his intellectual curiosity in an area outside his recognized competence, is severely handicapped. The Center I Political Science major who wishes to take a course in biology must consider the effect of a low grade in such a course on his future educational and occupational plans. The proposed pass-fail system can only serve to enhance the opport~:~nity for students in both centers to achieve a fuller, more satisfying education without jeopardizing their futures. For this reason alone, it is highly commendable. There are those who fear its effects will not be so salutory. But surely it is a limited (only two courses per year) proposal with proper safeguards (the professor hands the registar a letter grade), and a much needed innovation. :\lany past innovations were also charachterized as proposals that ''won't work,\ most noticebaly the parietal system and the revised convoeation system. But students have on the whole made parictals work, and our convocation schedule is better than ever. The pass-fail system deserves a chance. A.s with other cases, the main responsibility for making the pass-fail system work will rest with students. It will require discipline to work as hard on a pass-fail course as on a letter grade course, but the benefits to student:,; are obvious. and we are confident that most students will recogmze this and accept the responsibility. Tim~. we strongly urge the Student Senate and each individual student to carefully examine this proposal so that it may be adopted by the proper channels as soon as possible. \Those who make peaceful revolutiot1 impossible make vi o 1 e n t r e vo 1 u t i o n i n e vi t a b 1 e. \ Publlshed Tuesday and Friday dunng the Union College academic year by the Student Body of Union College. Schenectady, New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students in residence at Union College. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue. N.Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416·418 Fifth Ave .. Troy. 235·4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEILS. KRAMER Editor·in-Chief HENRY FEIN .................... . Managing Editor CARL GOLDSAND, JEFF BIRN .......... Business Managers RICHARD E. PATTERSON JR .......... . News Editor WILLIAM OUZER ..............•. Executive Editor PETER WEINGOLD ................ Features Editor BILL HOLLERAN ................... Sports Editor JODY SASLOW ................ Photography Editor OCTOBER 10, 1969 Letters: More On Moratorium We applaud and warmly second the statement which seventeen of our coll~agues of the Faculty of Union College submitted to the Concordiensis on October 7. Our names 'did not appear on that letter because we were not aware that a statement of this kind was being prepared. As citizens, as members of a learned profession and as human beings we regard with dismay and horror the prolongation of a war for which we can find no justification. History will surely record this as one of the blackest chapters in the American experience. For our own times it has poisoned those relationships which lie at the center of a democratic society. We support the October 15 Moratorium, and urge the cooperation of the entire College in the observance of that day's activities. Malcolm Willison Maria Rawe Neal W. Allen, Jr. Edward H. Elliot Michael J. Foster Martin Lichterman Betty Jane Wilcox John Sowa William J. Daniels Wayne Somers Erwin Fishman James D. Palmer Arnold Bittleman John Daniels Manfred Jonas Dolores Bittleman William B. Martin Byron Nichols Michael Shinagel Richard W. Henry Charles Holmes Hugh Alan Nelson V. Ennis Pilcher William B. Bristol Robert G. Peck Winfred Schwarz William Weifenbach Samson 0. A. Ullman Francis Lambert Thomas R. Kershner Jan Ludwig Robert Dalgleish David B. Potts Raquel Vinick Twitty J. Stules Stephen Berk Maria Astiz George Miroff Paul F. Bryant. Henry Well WR(Yc Dog Power To the Editor: The members of WRUC have once again demonstrated the quality of that so-called college radio station. Knowing that no one ever listens to the amateurish jocks and the strictly top-forty music, they took to broadcasting from speakers in N ott Memorial. So even if your radio was off you couldn't avoid hearing them. I suppose it didn't occur to the WRUC personnel responsible that someone might be studying in the library or in his room. Also, rumor has it that the boys at the Station are planning the format for the possible FM sta1ion without consulting the students at Union and the broadcasting community. If this is true then it's grossly irresponsible. A poll of the musical preferences of the prospective audience would certainly seem to be in order. Thank You, Peter J. Weingold To the Editor: As active participants in the Union College community, we the undersigned protest the threatened flagrant violation of our inalienable rights of travel, assembly, and speach. Earlier this week, the office of the Dean of Students issued a letter to all Fraternity Presidents in reference to \complaints from people who have been bitten by dogs.\ The letter further stated that \dogs are not permitted in college-owned buildings,\ and \free roaming dogs on campus may be seized by the local humane society.\ THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PlANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DOUGLAS Schenectady's Leading Men's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN ., BATES ., WALL. STREETER HUSH PUPPIES t LUCEY ., SEBAGO • MOCS MANSFIELD Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Next To The Underpass For the best in college rings. get ROBERT'S at the • • Campus Bookstore We are sadly taken aback by these threats to our integrity and our pursuit of modest pleasures. We do not feel that all of the dogs of Union College should be forced to suffer irreparably for the untoward actions of a few dogs who have never been positively identified as members of the Union College Canine Community. We implore you to show us a small measure of compassion and prevent our being forced from the warmth and security of our happy homes. THE U.C.C.C. Augie, Sam, Otis, Wilson, Leroy, Jack, Nietzche, Pie, Otto, Buster, Max, Burgess, Dudley Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall - One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. \Go see 'Putney Swope'. Tells it like its never been told before.\-Judith Crist The Truth and Soul Movie Starts Fri. Oct. lO , Moral Wins Two-hund auditorium o •... role Union v October 15. Barry Ka Committee ' movement, s: asked to part ·)·. ·'* 'Fhe Acti1 I, ,, Philosophy I j ' and Clergy ( •,\\ the best act participate ir to cut class 1. ,· Moratorium. I : The Mora and the Fact <·but that no day. This end< National Co< all college c November, administrati< such moverr administrati< students of l The Mor: Liebhaber a1 to be shown according tc ( ·,.prior to the It was ar on Tuesday there was al critic of the ! Moratorium \~ On Wed1 Chapel at 9 :~team of An ''Camps, wil ll a.m. in t After a vigil at Vet .,) canvassing ~ \write to Katzman, v Moratoriurr Pass· Continued of who, it pass-fail. J letter gra< who will c · pass-fail · I) ~ , · transcnpt. change hi: requiring~ · pass-fail b be converi grade. Com1 A com appointed Senate, an 11 p. appointed council, bl 1 place the before hi Senator convey tl: unit in th

ty at as te te se 5 ·'s ack our of not of be Lbly :>fa ~ver l as ion .ity. lOW of our the our :.c. wn, Pie, ~ess, e'. 1en ·ist ( _,, >Vie , Moratorium On Vietnam Wins Widespread Support By PETER J. WEINGOLD Two-hundred students meeting in the Social Sciences auditorium on Tuesday morning, voiced stong approval for the role Union will play in the National Moratorium on Vietnam, October 15. Barry Katzman, President of the Student Social Action Committee which is organizing campus participation in the movement, said that every school across the country had been asked to participate in some way. The Action Committee, with Prof. David Snider of the Philosophy Department and the Schenectady County Laymen '~ and Clergy Concerned About the War in Vietnam decided that •,\ the best action for students at Union to take would be to participate in the activities planned for next Wednesday, but not to cut classes unless they were going to be involved in the 1 • Moratorium. I J ' • The Moratorium has been endorsed by Pres. Harold C. Martin and the Faculty Council, both saying that classes should be held '. <·but that no one should be penalized for missing classes, on that day. This endorsement represents a compromise agreement. The National Coordinating Committee had asked for a total strike on all college campuses, to last one day in October, two days in November, and so on, until the War is ended. The college administration first voiced some hesitation about approving any such movement. The present plan is acceptable to the faculty, administration, and judging by their reaction Tuesday, the students of Union. The Moratorium activities begin Monday, according to Lou Liebhaber and Phil Galdstone, with two fact movies on Vietnam to be shown continuously from 7 p.m. to midnight. This will be, according to Liebhaber \a good time to brush up on the facts, I prior to the Wednesday canvassing.\ ) ·· Gregory at Siena It was announced that Dick Gregory, will be at Siena College on Tuesday to kick off the area Moratorium. Katzman said that there was also a possibility that Senator Charles Goodell, a recent critic of the War, would be at Union or in the area as part of the Moratorium activities. \I On Wednesday \The War Game\ will be shown in Memorial Chapel at 9 a.m. and again at 10 a.m. Allen Brick, a member of a ;>team of Americans who recently visited South Vietnamese Prison : k Camps, will speak on \Political Prisoners in South Vietnam\ at 11 a.m. in the Chapel. Write Congressmen After a march through downtown Schenectady and a silent vigil at Veterans' Memorial Park, the afternoon will be spent in ... ~ canvassing Schenectady area citizens to try and convince them to \write to their congressmen against the War,\ according to Katzman, who added that \this is the most important part of the Moratorium.\ Pass-Fait Debate Set Continued from page 1 of who, in his course, is on pass-fail. He will report a letter grade to the registar who will convert the grade to pass-fail on the student's transcript. Should the student change his major to a field requiring a course taken on a pass-fail basis, his grade will be converted back to a letter grade. Committee Review A committee of students, appointed by the Student Senate, and faculty members, •t. p. appointed by the faculty council, will review the oposal. From there, the u\'·\\\'\\ proposal will be before the Student Each Senator will place the proposal to vote before his living unit. The Senator will be able to convey the vote of his living unit in the Student Senate. If the proposal is passed by the Student Senate, then the proposal will be brought before the \Curricular Affairs\ committee of the Faculty Council. Upon passage by the Curricular Affairs committee, the proposal must pass \the Faculty Council before becoming college policy. Professional Typing Service IBM Selectric. Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typing Doctoral theses. Reasonable rates. Dependable. Call 489·6978 any time. nBaby love\ Bombs Out By DANNY SHOCKET \Baby Love\ is possibly the most inane, ridiculous, and absurd fihn I have ever had to sit through. For those of you who feel I may exaggerate, let me tell you of the plot. The movie begins with a rather gross 'Diana Dors committing suicide. Her young daughter arrives home to find \mum\ in the bathroom, her wrists slit. It seems \mum\ had cancer and did not want to see her consi,derable body waste away. Not wishing to leave her daughter unprotected, the poor woman contacted her :former lover, asking him to care for her daughter, Lucy. Undress Appeal Lucy arrives at the lover's home, an upper class mansion replete with decadent friends. She quickly becomes a member of the family. She especially appeals to the son, who likes to watch her undress. Now Lucy has not escaped from her traumatic experience unscathed. She constantly has two dreams, one of finding her mother's l>ody and another of her mother making love to her amoral stud (you can see he is amoral by his beard). To calm poor Lucy, the lady of tlte house decides to sleep with It's about time he got the accurate time. With ACCUTRON® he 'II never be without it. ACCUTRON CALENDAR \AF\ $175.00 The Accutron movement does not de· pend on watchworks. Instead, an elec- tronic·powered tuning fork keeps precise ·time through vibrations. In fact, Bulova .guarantees monthly accuracy to within 1 minute. t ACCUTRON• by BULOVA V It goes hm·m·m-m. tWe will adjust timekeeping to this torer• ·a nee, if necessary. Guarantee is tor one year. Your Schenectady Area Keepsake Dio.mond Representative Phone FR 4-01 83 her. Lucy has many fun adventl!lres, but feels she has been ignoring her mother's lover. He is almost seduced, but at the 'last moment spurns her. Seeking reassurance of her psychosis, Lucy runs up to the son taking a shower. However, it seems the son caught Lucy with the father (I told you he liked to look), and he rejects her. Negative Influence At this point, the mother feels Lucy may be a negative influence upon the household. She says Lucy must be sent away. Having no sense of humor, Lucy tells the husband of his wife's infidelity. This does not help what is, of course, an already shaky relationship. The picture mercifully ends with Lucy being checked out by the neighborhood !etch. There is no reason to disgrace the actors by mentioning their names, but Linda Hayden as Lucy should be mentioned only because you'll probably never hear of her again. All things rejected, \Baby Love\ is one of those pictures you must miss, unless you are very, very, very stoned. There isn't even enough skin in the film to deserve its \R\ rating. When you know it's for keeps All your sharing, all your special memories have grown into a precious and enduring love. Happily, these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name. Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color. and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a choice selection of many lovely styles. He's listed in fhe yellow pages under \Jewel~s.\ 'T.?\'..--..~GISTERED k ~ ..L~:f2sa... e\ R•nq~ e• 1,) _.__ 1 !o<,ho....,df> 1 0 I 01 AMOND RINGS From $100 '· $') 000 ®Trode Mo•\ Rpg A H P,.rd (. ..,.D<l\t IN f ~~ 18Q} I HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 1 Please se'd new 20 page booklet,' How To Plan Your Engagement and Wedding\ and new 12 page, full color folder, both for only 2Sc. Also, how can I obta;n 1 the bcaut.lul ~4 page Bride's Keepsake Book at half price? f·69 I Nome--------------·-------- 1 1 Addre~·----------~---------- 1 City Co------- 1 I Slate z;p ____ _ I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS. BOX 90, SYRACUSE. NEW YORK 13201 I L-------------------------------~

PAGE4 Gamet Booters Tie Bantams The Garnet boaters came up Wednesday with a surprising and very gratifying 3-3 tie against one of the t ottghest teams on their .schedule, Trinity the Bantems had been rated second in the East during preseason, despite the lack of their top performer, Bob Okello, the Garnet showed a great deal of def-ensive ability and scoring punch in the contest. With only 18 seconds gone by in the first period, the Garnet's Art Frazier put in a f01lowup goal from the right sicle, after the Bantam goalie had baffled away his first shot. Trinity tied the game at the end of the same stanza, and after a scoreless, see-saw second period, took the lead in the third, capitalizing on a Ey HANK LEVINE four •on-two break. Kevin Coyne lmotted the score for the Garnet in the last mornen is 9f the third quarter. The fourth period featured a tough defensive soccer, with the Tr·i:Jlity squad controHing the •ball for the gr.eater portion_ ·of .the time. The game then went into overHfie. The first five minu te:s overtime period saw the Duichmen take a 3-2 lead on a goal by Pierre Roumain, who beat <the Bantam goalie, and pLit the ball in the left come~ of the net. In the second overtime period, with 60 s-econds remaining, Trinity got the ball at midfield on a: \Hand-s\ call, and drove dmvnfield to the goal. Garnet goaLie Dave Block stopped the sh-ot but it bounced off his body, and a Bantam forward kicked it in to tie the score at 3-3. Netminder Block compiled 34 saves in by far his finest performance of the young season. ·C each Brown was very pleased with his squad as a whole, .especially Block's effort, which he termed •'absolu tely fantastic.\ The bo0ters record now stands at 1·0·1, and they will seek to up that mark in action this weekencl. The boaters meet the Continentals ofHamilton this afternoon in their home opener, and will travel to Micldlebury tomorrow. Faces 'Jackets X Country Opens By BlLL HOLLERAN Highlighting the 1969 Homecoming festivities, the Garnet gridders clash with the Y ellowjackets of Rochester tom or row afternoon an Alex.ander Field before an expected overflow crowd of students, dates, and alumni. The contest is the 64th renewal of a tradition-steeped series dating back to 1889, a rivalry that began only three years after Union began its inter-collegiate football history with a contest versus R.P .I. By MARK SHUCOLL A young, and, for the m{)st part, inexperienced group of eight runners has been named by second-year coach Ronald Coleman to open the varsity cross-country season tomorrow, as the Garnet tainclads face Clarkson in their first dual meet. Last week, the team took part in the LeMoyne Invitational t\leet and finished 11inth in a 17 team field. Expected to lead the team Hogan, Rowe Lead '73 Gr·id !he freshmen football t~am traveled to Hartford, Connecticut, this afternoon t.o face Trinity College in their season opener. Coach Bruce Allison was expected to experiment in today's contest, testing his personnel. \We have a good balance\ said Coach Allison. \We hope to sustain a strong running game, and we're looking for strong quarterback ~eadership.\ On offense, Coach Allison ex.p ects to use three quarterbacks, with Mike Hogan the probable starter, :and five running backs, notably Tom DeCrosta at :halfback, Curtis Rowe at fullback, and Stan White at wingback. As for the passing ,game, principal receivers will probably be tight end Doug Janssen and left end Barton ~onrad. KING'S AT LJI.tHIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street We Cater To Un10r;. Studc11t' 10<>~ Service Discount is Bryant Moeckel, one of a triD of talented sophmores. M o ec ke 1 I ed last year's Freshman team to a 3-2. recorci, and was Union's top finisher in the New York State Freshmen Cr a:s s-Country Champ- ionships last fall, finishing nin tiL He finished sixteenth at LeNoyne, two minutes off the w-inning pace, to lead all Garn~t competitors, despite painful sore feet. A111:other sophmore, Paul Forbes, has looked impressive in tndning, and let the teatn in time trials held last week. over the Union home course_ Burgess Also Back Juiilior Joe Burgess returns for h.is second year on the varist~. Burgess was among the :[)utchmen's top finishers during most of last season and culminated the year by leadirig Union finishers in the State Championships, placing 26th. Sophmore Dave Rice a11d Junior Rich CDOJlerwasser, another letterinan from last year's te a1n, round out the cont.ingent of upperclassmen. Frceshmen Tim McCabe, Mark Slavin, and Pat Murphy have all earned spots on the varsity roster as a result of their :Performances in practice and ai LeMoyne. ~For three G enerafions.' Those Yi/hoKnow •.. H'<Ove been recommending - Stern Test Tomorrow's game will be another stern test for Coach George Flood's gridders, who are coming off a dismal 23-3 drubbing at the hands of Kings Point. Last weekend the Mar in e rs completely overwhelmed the sputtering Garnet offense, holding the Union attack to a mere five yards in total offense, -36 yards in rushing, and 41 yards in passing. Quarterbacks Ken Pearce and Dan Kerkhoff had m i s e r a b le a f t er no on s , combining for only five completions in 24 attempts. !he Garnet defense, which had been rock-jard in the first two games of the season also wilted last weekend and yielded 259 yards on the ground. Rochester, on the other hand, is off to the races this fall, ha'ling compiled a 3-0 slate thus far. The Yellowjackets proved their mettle last weekend, when they whipped Williams by a 21-9 score. HERSHE:L MAURICE B WALTER '\'3 .Union GraduatEs in Grallbart Family'~ 166 JAY ST. :FOR HONEST SER\li(:E AND GOOD JEWELRY OCf'OBER 10, 1969 Fro:s·h Boaters Wi!n Bla,nk New Paltz, a· ... Q By MIKE HUMBER On Wednesday afternoon, the Unionfreshma!l soccer team ran its winning streak to two games, as it defeated & tough New Paltz squad by a score of 3'0. Actually, the score ~.id n~t reflect the closeness of the game as the score was 1•0 until· late m the fourth quarter. A.fter having twuble mounting a steady attack, the frosh got , . on the scoreboard as the result of a Paul !lfartini shot. For Martini, it was his third score of the season. Martini's goal was the only scoring in the first kalf as the ball was ~icked up and down the field with no serious threats mounted by etth.er team. When Union came onto the field for the th.hd ·quarter, they played much better but just could not seem to get the ball in the net. A.lthough they controlled the ball for most of the q~arter, 1 they missed numerous scoring opportunities, much to the dismay '• of Coach McMurray. Yearlings Open Up However, in the fourth stanza, things took a turn for the better as the yearlings booted two quick goals. The first of these came on a Britt Eustus kick from the left side of the goal. Marty Goossen followed by notching his initial tally •of the season on a '. short boot from in front of the New Paltz net. The defense, spearheaded by R0ger Sherman and Walter Witholt, turned in an excellent game as it repeatedly prevented New :Paltz from getting near the Garnet goa.l. Although he did not figure in the scoring, special note should 1Je mule of the play of Bill Chais, as he steadied the frosh with. his sharp passing and ex.ceptional ball control. . . As a whole, the team did not look as sharp as It had dunng pre-seas~n play, probably due to home-opener nef':ous!less and the fact that the New Paltz contest wa~ theu flfSt true inter-collegiate competition of the regular season. HABER-DASH: tke crew at U. is lambswool $14.98- Its colour is the gentleman's favorite<(we have them all), its handsome .effect is part due to rich cable styling, part due to the excellence of its knit. Other sweater candidates, equally appealing, in profusion. Choose today w~r ~q. uirr §bop . 420 STATE STREET,377-3061 Founded VOL. 99, NO. 10 SCHENECTAD HCM Signs Anti-War AI Stating their personal convictions, the presidents of 79 of the nation's most prestigious private colleges and universities appealed for a \stepped-up timetable for withdrawal from Vietnam.\ The appeal was released on Sunday, Oct. 12th. Among the signers were President Harold C. Martin, and former Dean of the College, Theodore D. Lockwood, President of Trinity College. The appeal came in the form of a joint statement issued by the presidents, speaking \as individuals who work with young men and women.\ Their statement ·concluded: \We urge upon the President of the United States and upon Congress a stepped-up timetable for withdrawal from Vietnam. We believe this to be in our country's best interest. Times To Be Silent The presidents wrote: \There are times to be silent and times to speak. This is a time to speak. The accumulated costs of the Vietnam war are not in men and material alone. There are costs too in the effects on young people's hopes and beliefs. Like ourselves, the vast majority of the students with whom we work still want to believe in a just, honest and sensitive America. But our military engagement in Vietnam now stands as a denial of so much that is best in our society. Urgent Busines~ \More and more, we see the war deflecting energies and resources from urgent business on our dw.n doorsteps. An end to the war will not solve our problems on or off campus. It will however permit us to work IEEE Fetes Gabriel Kron An international panel of engineers will join the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and Union College today in a symposium on the work of the late Gabriel Kron, engineer and mathematician. The program began ·in Schaeffer Library at 3:00 pm., and will have a second session at 8:00 prn,. in SS 16. Dr. Krort, a consulting engineer with General Electric Co. from 1934 until his retirement in 1966, was noted for his contributions in the fields of non-Euclidean geometry and tensor analysis. more effectively in support of did ; more peaceful priorities. Far earl) from being depressed about H our nation's future and our stat( institutions' future, we see pres bold opportunities ahead rece once the divisiveness of this war is in the past.\ l1 In their statement, the othE presidents made clear that sign. their schools took \no hav<: positions as institutions\ on co 1 the Vietnam war. \These are pres pluralistic communities where f o u men speak for themselves resp alone on off-campus issues,\ issu they wrote. pen The statement was mailed earl to President Nixon and is u: Congressional leaders late Saturday, October 12. coli Early End sho H a v e r f o r d C o 11 e g e war president John R. Coleman nan gathered the initial support tha that resulted in the in statement. In conversations we w i t h f e 11 o w c o 11 e g e spe presidents, Coleman said he fav' found that many felt as he Vie SophSumr Richard Gross, '72, taught is : swimming in Costa Rica for pre six. weeks last summer as a Au member of Friendship Latin we America, sponsored by the So International Red Cross. Ri' Friendship La tin America an

PAGE 2 Moratorium Schedule Wednesday · 9:00 and 10:00 '\The War Game\ Memorial Chapel. 11: 00 · Allen Brick 11: 30 - March through Schenectady 12:30 Silent Vigil Veteran's Memorial Park Afternoon · Canvasing 6:15 · Caravan of cars to SUNY - Albany for Candlelight Procession to the Capital - Bring your car, Bring Candles. Student Social Action Committee, for info. 374-0961. UNITED STATES FORCES LEAVE SOUTH VIETNAM \Those who make peaceful revolutio11 impossible make violent revolutiorJ it~evitable.\ ~io~· ~.; .... ~'1-. l1f onr.or 17 i{r! q 5 ~irnste ~ C\Q'-' !,1 & .. ~.~.f.· PubLished Tuesday and Fnday dunng the Union College academic ypar by the Student Body of Union College, Schen ectad y. New York. Published Thwsdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students in residence at Union College. Natiol'llal Advertising Representative: National Ed ucati.onal Advertising Service, Inc .• College Pub Ushers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue. N.Y.C. Ed1torial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office. Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc .• 416·418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235·4450. EnterPd in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a yeal' delivered anywhere in the United States. NEILS. KRAMER Editur-in-Chief HENRY FEIN .................... . Managing Editor CARL G-OLDSAND, JEFF BIRN .......... Business Managers RICHARD E. PA ITERSON JR ........... News Editor WILLIAM OUZER ........... , .... Executive Editor PETER WEINGOLD ................ Features Editor BILL HOLLERAN ................... Sports Editor JODY SASLOW ................ Photography Editor OCTOBER 14, 1969 Youngblood's Concert And Second Album~ Rated: Good The following is a review -of the Youngbloods' concert here on Saturday night and of their second album, \Elephant Mountain\. I could give you a whole bunch of biographical garbage but I won't \cos this is a review of their concert and record (this will probably be the only straight review you'll see by me, so you can even read it twice - if you even read it once - if you read past here blah blah blah). Beginning. The concert. The Youngbloods just walked on stage. Anybody looking for sensationalism had already left. After tuning up, they did Sunlight - soft and making love in the morning forest. Everybody's smiling. Nobody asks why. Then came '\Darkness Darkness\ another good song. There's one good thing about the Youngbloods and their style - they're friendly. Friendly. You know what that means? They were there t<l do some music that we might dig as done by themselves. They had no stage show. The drummer was the clown. He would go out to the audience and everybody would throw requests at him and he'd still be friendly. He would jump and fall and do peace signs By M. GROSSMAN and talk to his drums and get into his music. Banana was a perfectionist. That's all. The bass player was the poet. He would be in the music. The music existed and he existed and they were one. During the break, each guy did what he wanted to do. Young, the bass player, did this really beautiful ballad on guitar - \we gotta stop killing one another\ - \think about it\. I could keep on going here and tell you all the songs they sang, but that's not all there is to a concert. Half of any concert is the people. But finally, at Union College, people attempted to get together. When the Youngbloods said dance in the aisles, two people got up to dance, but, as was expected, the man came in and told them to sit down. So a lot of people got up and started clapping and jumping to the music. At Union? I must admit it wasn't the best concert I've ever seen, but it was good. And they were themselves. They didn't burn guitars or anything to get the man up-tight or get the potential groupies crying blah blah blah. They were just themselves. As for their second album, \Elephant Mountain\ if you saw them live, don't even read this. It's the same sort of music - sort of soft, country, peaceful music with sometimes (I hesitate to use the word) funky beat. Some of the arrangements are a bit different (no electric violins live for \Darkness Darkness) but the same good stuff. On the album, as live, each of them is an accomplished musician. Each of their styles can be heard on the album - Young and folk; Bauer and Jazz; Banana and sort of country. What I consider the best songs are \On Sir Francis Drake\ and \Sunlight\, and \Rain Song\ and \Ride the Wind\ (I won't describe them to you because you probably have different music tastes than me). The last song on the first side, called \Turn it Over\ is 12 seconds long and just a hint. Figure that out. Then there's another song called \Black Mountain Breakdown\ 40 seconds long, which is exactly what it is. Anyway, I won't tell you to go out and buy it because maybe you don't want to, but if you can't buy it, at least go to your nearest record store and look at the album cover which has a really nice painting. 1-A Draft Status Prevents Alumnus From Receiving Marshall Scholarship Two Union alumni have been chosen by the British Government to receive the coveted Marshall Schoolarships, awarded this year to only 24 Americans. Only one is able to accept, however, as a result of current Selective Service restrictions. The Marshall Scholarship program, administered and paid for by the British government, was established in 1953 as an expression of British gratitude for post-World War II Marshall Plan aid. Charles J. Hogan '69, of Scotia, N.Y., summa cum laude graduate and co-Valedictorian at this past June's commencement ceremonies, was given the award to read for a Master of Arts degree in English local history at the University of Leicester. His 1-A draft status, however, has made it illegal for him to leave the country, and instead of going to England this month, he will be reporting for an Army physical. When interviewed ~y a Schenectady paper, Hogan said he realized he could avoid the draft by means he described as '\fraud or favoritism.\ However, he added, \I don't want to do what I'd have to do to qualify. I am not a conscientious objector and other alternatives are against my personal ethics.\ John S. Beckerman '66, of Roslyn, N.Y., the other scholarship winner, has been attending graduate school at the University of Iowa. He will be going to the London School of Economics and Political Science to read Economic History for his M.Phil. MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts done: by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 3'77-4010 'T:?'\...-...::;.;;ISTERED k ~psa elil DIAMOND RINGS When you choose your engage- ment ring, be sure to look for the name \Keepsake\ in the ring and on the tag. It's your assurance of fine quality. You can't buy a finer diamond ring than a Keepsake. Your Schenectady Area Keepsake Diamond Representative Phone FR 4-01 B3 RfnRS t.>nlr~rged to 5how detail. Tradt:·Mark Reg. OCTO BE \\'( .; ' ( ~) . . M4 '\M-e definite} and, ind relevant created someon' the fJ.lm underst ex agger: ' • Afterall seen \: Night\ l '\The ' Rider' Cowbo: \' at least ' . relevan· highly moreso •' M brillia execute 11. is a Using t verite, story tribula cam en soundr assigm coveri1 of IS • techni both and pc • inters} to CH some in U.S \'IIJ Fir everyt T.V. McCl _ •· desig medi Amer comfc • auton hand 0 b j 4 .. emot: invob event ( how be or have, has inter perh; value :rJ this i in liJ .01; non whet then ' and actu are .,. con occ rea char • thei The him .. • tap car~ shoe r inc s 0(

1 69 Ll d en of ry, .th ISe me bit ins :ss) tell ted ·Ies n- tnd of ~est tcis md the ibe rou lSic Jng urn Jng hat her :a in mg, you mse to, , at rest the s a ~e® gage- k for I the your You I ring mtative rREET ADV (DRK tone 1-0183 tt'k R<'g. '' ~ ~ OCTOBER 14, 1969 \\1\; '; • Whole World Watches Medium Cool At Scotia ,J \Medium Cool\ is definitely one of the best . , and, indeed, most profoundly relevant films that has been created in recent years. To someone who has not seen . <l the film, this statement quite understandably may seem exaggerated and even foolish. ' • Afterall, most people have seen \In the Heat of the Night\ \Bonnie and Clyde\ 1 \The Wild Bunch\ \Easy Rider\ and \Midnight Cowboy\. \Medium Cool\ is at least as well-made and as II> ' . relevant as any of these highly acclaimed films if not more so. \Medium Cool\ brilliantly conceived and executed by Haskell Wexler, 11. is a veritable masterpiece. Using the style of the cinema verite, Wexler weaves his story around the trials and tribulations of a T.V. news camerman and a T.V. news soundman as they move from assignment to assignment, covering the pertinent events of 1968. Because of this • technique, the ftlm contains both document~ry footage and personal drama which are t interspersed and overlapped to create a total picture of some of the major problems \\ in U.S. society today .. Cool Medium First of all, people view everything in life through the T.V. set, or as Marshall McCluhan has so aptly • •· designated it, \the cool medium.\ The average American sits back in his comfortable chair with the • automatic T.V. control in his hand and watches life very objectively without . .. emotional, no less personal, involvement in any of the events that occur. No matter l how horrible the event may be or what significance it may have, the average American has no real concern or interest, that is beyond, perhaps, the entertainment value of the violence. The saddest thing about this is that people view events in life in this objective, cool, ·~ non-emotional way even when they personally see them occur. The cameraman , and the soundman who are ... actually present at the events are not at all emotionally concerned about the occurrences. They are realistically created characters, but they approach • their jobs like automatons. The soundman consider.s himself an extention of a • tape-recorder and the carJerman simply \loves to shoot fllm\. Not only does Wexler zero in on this apparent apathy in society, bui: he also By ROBERT ALAN LEVINE emphasizes quite effectively the violent atmosphere in the U.S., if not the violent nature of its citizens. In the first part of the film, a number of people at a party discuss the desire of people to see violence in the news. Many violent events occur throughout the film, from several automobile accidents which people 1 passing by either glance at or else snap pictures of to the police-demonstrator clash at the Democratic Convention which the whole world watched and no doubt lepped up. Marquis deSade On a more personal level, even John the camerman has a violent nature. His favorite hobby is boxing, he takes his girlfriend t0 watch a brutal marathon skating race and even makes love in a violent manner that would no doubt please the Marquis de Sade. John, like the rest of the people in the country, is unaware he has such a blantant flaw. 1 'Medium Cool\ is Mr. Wexler's f.tlm all the way. Not only is he the director of photography, writer of the screenplay, and director of the entire ftlm, but he with another photographer personally shot all the footage. The camerawork is superb. Wexler and the other photographer apparently made many of the ftlms scenes at the actual events. Thus, the newsreel footage supposedly taken by the cameraman and soundman is quite realistic and visually exciting. Wexler also uses the technique of sweeping the camera over an area, stopping it, and then quick-cutting to another area, which during events such as the police demonstrator clash in Chicago creates a breathtaking feeling of movement and confusion. Wexler's expertise at this camerawork is understand- able, because he has been considered an extremely skillful cameraman for quite some time. His excellence as a director, however, has come as a greatly appreciated surprise. Directorial Skill In \Medium Cool\ which is his first directorial effort, Wexler exhibits all the ease, skill, and dexterity of an extremely experienced director. His talents for direction and photography come across best during the scenes of documentary footage. His direction and photography of the actors in personal closeup scenes, however, leaves something to be desired. Many of the personal drama conversations come across like newsreel interviews with muttering, bad timing, uncoordinated responses and reactions from the characters. This, however, may have been done on purpose to accentuate the idea that these scenes, like all the events done in documentary style are viewed by the audience if they were on a T.V. news show. The screenplay is also quite well-written, containing both documentary and staged scenes. Wexler shows the various events· of 1968 actually occurring, the cameraman and the soundman recording the events, their reactions to the events and other people, and various interviews concerning the events. The characters are extremely well-conceived and well-developed. Most of the time the actors portray the characters in an astoundingly realistic and endearing manner. Occassionally, however, the character- izations fall flat intentionally or uninentionally because of Wexler's direction. I can't balme the actors at all for this because most of the time they demonstrate exceptional ability. Robert Forster, Peter Bonerz, Marianna Hill, and Harold Blankenship, all relatively unknown performers will undoubtedly have no trouble fmding jobs in the years ahead. The musical score is brilliantly coordinated with the photography, constantly supplying a fast-moving and pulsating tempo throughout the film . \Medium Cool\ is a powerful indictment of our apathetic and violent society which sits back watchirtg the horrors of the world on T.V. BLITHER Pres. Harold C. Martin Will have an open forum on Thursday, October 16th, at 8 p.m. in Fox Lounge to talk about construction and renovation plans on campus for the next four years. The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be on Oct. 28 in Hale House Faculty Lounge at 8 p.m. Anyone wishirtg to participate is welcome. The results of the last tournament, held on Oct. 7, are as follows: First--Fishman and Kirschner; Second-- Filman and Coco; Third--Prof. Lambert and Prof. Stone. All heads of activities who have not submitted their budget requests to the Tax Committee are requested to do so immediately. Forms are available from Mrs. Marra for those who have not yet received them. PAGE3 Revolution Without Blood: Fervor Should Be Used In Vietnam Moratorium By PETER J. WEINGOLD Last year at Union the students, faculty, and administration avoided rebellion but achieved revolution without a stone being thrown or an obscenity being hurled. Maintenance is no longer the terrible burden it once was; at the same time that students can get all the exercise they can handle now that there are no school-wide parietal restrictions. Students are participating in many levels of decision making and to take their minds away from the levels missing the trustees are giving us women next year. Mr. Max Singer of the Hudson Institute think tank spoke at Union last Monday night on the issue of the ABM or Anti-Ballistic Millile as it is formally known. He's obviously an extremely inteHigent, well researched and well meaning man. He's more dangerous than George Wallace, Lester Maddox, or Strom Thurmond can .ever hope to be. Mr. Singer's premises are logical and well-drawn •· if your religion happens to be set theory, you do probability graphs before you drink your orange juice, and you tend to forget you're human. \In order to stop the spread of nuclear weapons we must make it impractical for any nation to use them ... We must build a roof of nuclear impenetrability.\ But at the same time, \I don't believe a system can be made to act like a roof over the United States. But an ABM system can be made to reduce the casualities.\ In theory that's beautiful--if we put in enough money and effort we can build a system that may protect some of the citizens of the United States provided the Soviets (or whomever) don't decide to build too many offensive weapons. In practice it's even more beautiful: \The two billion dollars sepnt on the ABM probably wouldn't make a difference to the crises in the cities.\ That, needless to say, is not an empitical ract. President Nixon may or may not be completely on the level when he proinises Imminent peace in Vietnam provided the peaceniks guiet down. No chances can be taken. Too many Presidents have promised peace for too many now dead Americans. The revolution at Union was a quiet success and was a revolution only in the loosest sense of that word. Some of the untapped revolutionary fervor can now be used. The Vietnam Moratorium is on Wednesday, October 15th. Blood· Drive Begins ---- -- Blood will flow in Alumni Gym on Tuesday October 28, and Wednesday October 29. On those two days a campus blood drive will be sponsored by Phi Delta Theta in coopera-tion with the Schenectady chapter of the American Red Cross. The blood collected in the drive will be given without charge to patients in local hospitals. As an incentive for donors, Phi Delta Theta will award a keg of beer to the fraternity or dormitory floor which has the highest percentage of registered donors. Sign up sheets will be posted in each dormitory and fraternity, and all prospective donors are asked to sign up by October 23 in order to facilitate the ordering of supplies. The donation of blood requires a total of about 40 rninu tes. During this time the donor is asked some questions about his health and his temperature; blood pressure and hemoglobin are checked. The actual donation time is usually between five and ten minutes. After donating, coffee, juice, and cookies are served to the donor. All the blood taken out is replaced by the body within a few days. The need for blood is great. Six hundred pints of blood are used in Schenectady hospitals every month. This blood is supplied entirely by volunteers, and in the past the Red Cross has been able to rely on a good turnout from Union College.

OCTOBER 14, 1969 PAGE 4 Outing Club Plans First Trip To Adirondaks This Weekend The Outing Club is not a club. You cannot join it, you cannot pay dues, you cannot get a membership card. It is an organization. A few of us will try to organize it a. bit more this year. We have plenty of equipment and knowledge. Trips can only be run when a sufficient number of people show interest. We will be going into the outdoors in all seasons in the forms of mountain climbing, rock climbing, canoeing, and caving. Our mission seems more than a series of larksome escapes. Lack of sensible conservation is the creeping disease so unaware to many of us. Second, Thoreau's cherished lands are still hear. An open mind might feel a few things. Third, preparing a comfortable camp five miles . • . where Imagination is the essential qualification. from nowhere in a sub-zero gale requires cooperation among people. Fourth, mastering the art of staying alive and moving around away from the warmth of home is of priceless satisfaction. Finally, there are females doing this thing. Weekly meetings will be held. Any trip will be run where a sufficient number are interested --a trip which the people who come want, not a prearranged venture. In this capacity the OC will be an organizational clearing house. Equipment will also be available to individuals when not being used for club activities. THIS WEEK END an introductory trip is planned to the Adirondaks. We will leave early Saturday and return late Sunday afternoon. • • POT can open d Saturday a peak will be climbed and Sunday all are free to do as they like. A trip meeting will be held Tuesday at 4:30 in Hale House. If you can not make it to this meeting, see Jim Ludwig, 309 Sough College by Wed. Evening. Plans after this week end are as broad as you would like to make them. whole new world of opportunity ... Each year, NSA offers challenging career opportunities to Liberal Arts majors through participation in the Professional Qualification Test. This year, NSA has scheduled the POT for Saturday, December 6, 1969. Completion of this Test by the Liberal Arts major is a prerequisite to consideration for NSA employment. The Career Scene at NSA: The National Security Agency is the U.S. Govern- ment agency responsible for developing invulnerable communications systems to transmit and receive vital information. As an NSA professional, you will be trained to work on programs of national importance in such areas as: • Cryptography-developing & logical proving of new cryptologic concepts • Research-the gathering, analysis, and reporting of substantive data • \,.anguage-used as a basic tool of research into a number of analytical fields • Programming-includes data systems program writing, and development of mechanical and administrative procedures • Documentation-technical writing in its broadest sense, including research, writing, editing, illustrating, layout and reproduction Your specific academic major is of secondary importance. Of far greater im- portance are your ingenuity, intellectual curiosity and perseverance-plus a desire to apply them in assignments where \imagination is the essential quali- fication.\ SALARIES start at $7,639.00 and are supplemented by the benefits of career federal employment. ADVANCEMENT AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT-NSA promotes from within, and awards salary increases as you assume greater responsibility. NSA also is anxious to stimulate your professional and intellectual growth in many ways, including intensive formal as well as on-the-job training. Advanced study at any of seven area universities can be pe~rtially or wholly reimbursed through NSA Fellowships and other assistance programs. The deadline tor POT aoplications is November 21 (for the December 6 test). Pick up a POT Bulletin at your Placement Office. It contains fUll detal!s and the necessary test registration form. College Relations Branch, National Security Agency, Ft. George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. Attn: M321. An equal oppor- tunity employer, M&F. national security agency .. ' . 1.1• .;:.t PAGE 5 In an played Daley booters string tc convinci 4·2 victc Contine Hami of the < tl < - ~., . ' \ .. ,f ~r1~ . ~\ The Ga record 2 score oJ Middleb For1 Union l penalty Lapse c numero Garnet first hal The '! continu ~'~l' seemed i· Fortum l .l With Be .. \~· assured , I enabled .l Martini Alth playing defense \ •\' the thn 1 for the ~~ 1 unit. I: 1 · smooth handlin Boa so ph • t1 freshm ,..,_ dl I countr 1969 I 17-40 Sa turd fust tl harrier So Moeck race a posted 30:51 ~~~,. Clarks , nearly r i t'·· Kll SE l 1 0' \ 1 •

.. ' ' • • >€ .. ~ ... 1.1• .;:.t PAGE 5 Boot Splits Tu:o; Skein EnJs In an exciting soccer game played Friday afternoon on Daley Field, the varsity hooters ran their unbeaten string to three games with a convincing come-from-behind 4-2 victory over the Hamilton Continentals. Hamilton jumped on top of the Garnet quickly, as AI ~ ' By BILL HOLLERAN Braverman connected in each of the first two periods to stake Hamilton to a 2-0 lead, which the Continentals held until four minutes remained in the third period. 1 t was then that Chris Swan booted home a direct kick from just outside the penalty area, making the count 2-1, '73 Boot Triumphs By MIKE HUMBER The Garnet freshman soccer team maintained its undefeated record as it edged an inspired Middlebury squad on Friday by the score of 2-l. It was a most satisfying victory for the Garnet, as Middlebury was rated as one of their toughest foes. For the second time this season, Bob Kosier broke the ice for Union by booting home a first period goal from just inside the penalty area. Following Kosier's goal, the yearlings suffered a Lapse on both offense and defense, allowing Middlebury numerous scoring opportunities. Due to the excellent play of the Garnet goalie, however, the opposition was unable to score in the first half. Take The Lead The third quarter marked a repeat of the second as the Garnet continued to be lackadaisical in their play. The main problem seemed to lie in the team's inability to maintain a steady attack. Fortunately, the fourth stanza showed a reversal by the squad. With Bob Bernhardt scoring on a semi-breakaway, Union was thus assured of their third consecutive triumph. Bernhardt's goal enabled him to move into the team's scoring lead with Paul Martini. Both Garnet hooters have three tallies so far this season. Defenders Shine Although the team did not play as well as they are capable of playing, several bright spots could be seen in Friday's action. The defense stopped the opposition from heavy scoring once more. In the three contests, the Garnet has only allowed three goals. Also, for the first time this year, the front line played together as a unit. If the occasional lapses on offense and defense can be smoothed over, then the frosh should have little trouble in handling Williston Academy, Wednesday at 2:30 on Garis Field. Moeckel Leads Harriers To 17-40 Opening Win By MARK SHUGOLL Boasting two juniors, three sophmores, and three freshmen, the Garnet cross country team opened its 1969 campaigh with an easy 17-40 win over Clarkson on Saturday. By sweeping the fust three places, the Union harriers reversed last years 32-24 decision. Sophmore Bryand Moeckel made his first varsity race a victorious one as he posted the win in the time of 3 0: 5 1 seconds over the Clarkson course. Finishing nearly one minute behind KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street We C oter To Un10n Students 10~~ Service Discount Moeckel was Union's Joe Burgess, a junior, while Paul Forbes, also wearing the Garnet, finished third. Freshmen Mark Slavin and Tim McCabe finished eight seconds apart, in the number five and six positions respectively. Saturday's win might set the trend for cross-country at Union over the next few years, as the thinclads are young and will continue to improve. Tomorrow, the harriers oppose Hobart in their first home meet. How strong the team really is might be proven this Saturday when Union travels to R.P.I. to face the powerful Engineers. The Garnet runners should find another tough foe in Hamilton. The two collide at Union on October 23. Saturday's win matched Union's win production for all of last year, as the 1968 harriers finished with a 1·4 record. Hamilton. The Hamilton lead stood up until J>ierre Roumain scored with sixteen minutes left in the contest, to tie the score at 2-2. Swan blasted a hard shot on goal from the left side, and Roumain converted the rebound off the sprawling Hamilton netminder. Garnet Take Lead With nine minutes left in the game, the Dutchmen roared into the lead on a play similar to the previous Garnet scoring rush. Roumain blasted away from the left side, and the Continental netminder had to make a fantastic; dive to keep the ball out of the net. He could not control ih e rebound, however, ancl Ira Turret was right there to boot the ball home and put the Garnet in the driver's seat, 3-2. Roumain t()p:ped off the afternoon's scoring three minutes later~ with Mike Furlan picking up the assist on the tally. Panthers Snap Streak The Dutchmen put their perfect 3•0- I record on the line Saturday afternoon at Middlebury, but suffered their first setback of the year at the hands of the Panthers, 4-0. '73 X-Ccuntry Outlook Dim Union's freshman cross-country team opens its season tornonow with a home meet against a tough Williston squad. Coach Ron Coleman, a1t1'10ugh declining to make any statement on the outcome of\ the season, feels that all the team~s contests will be tough. Three IJarriers. Lost The reason for this somewhat pessimistic feeling is that the three bist freshman runners, Mark Slavin, Tim McCabe, and Pat Murphy, will be running for the varsity team. This lea-ves Jim Huston, Mark Brenneman, and Bill Jacobs as the top harriers in the frosh race Wednesday. Rounding out the squad will he Jan G()ldberg, Mark Burdelle, Greg Hamlin, Ed Rossi, and Stan 1 ackson. '73 Runs Fifth Last week the freshman ran in the J. V. division of the Lemoyne Invitational and finished fifth out of nine teams. In tllat meet, the frosh were led by Tim McCabe, who garnend the 11 th spot, and Bill Ja<:obs, who finished in the 20th ,position. OCTOBER 14, 1969 Tight end Pup Gould turns downfield after hauling in a Ken Pearce pass. The Garnet gained 318 yards through the air in their 34-28 less. Photo by George Kaplan Grid. Loss Continued from page 2 attempted an onside kick, but were unsuccessful and the Yellowjackets ran out the clock. Final passing slats showed Pearce with 20 of 46 for 318 yards. sw·an grabbed 10 passes for 194 yards, with nine receptions for 173 yards coming in the second half. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home 1 Cooked Italian Food in Ouri I Comfortable Dining Room Opp. Th• Brownell Gate on NoH Street Open Doily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Now's The Time To MARRY ME Spring catches a young man's fancy Buy your Wedding Ring at · Maurice Graubart & Sons Jewelers, 166 Jay St. .Serving Union for 3 generations. BLOW YOURSELF UP Black and White 2 ft. x 3 it. Poster only S ($4.95 value) with plastic frame $4 ($7.95value) Send any black & Wh1te or color photo up to 8\ x 10\ (no negat1ves) and the name \Swmgl1ne'' cut from ~ny Swmghne stapler or staple ref1ll package It': Poster-Mart. P. 0. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 11377, Enclose cash. check or money order (no c.o.o:s) in the amount of $2.00 for each blow-up; $4.00 for blow-up and frame as shown. Add sales tax where appl1cable. Or~g.nal matenal returned undamaged, Satl5fac· tion guaranteed. Allow 30 days for del1very. THE GREAJ SW.INGLINE TOT~TAPLER The world's largast selling stapler yet no larger than a pack of gum. ONLY 98¢ with 1000 FREE staples! (,-~ :,:=_----~. THE GREAT NEW ~ SWINGLINE ~cuD®HAND& D DESK STAPLERS ~ ·'0 .._ ONLY $1.69 each. .~ With 1000 staples ,<::; .. . . -.. ·., only $1.98 each.

PAGE 6 OCTOBEH 14., 1969 Late-Game Passing Heroics Mark Football Loss By HENRY FEIN A late come-from-behind whirlwind effort by the Garnet gridders fell short Saturday, as Rochester topp'ed the Dutchmen, 34-28, before 3,000 Homecoming fans. The Garnet thus dropped · their third straight after an opening win over WPL The contest started quite poorly for the home team, with Rochester taking a 14-0 lead at halftirn.e and moving to a 28-0 bulge midway through the third quarter. A combination of effective Yellowjacket offense, both on the ground and (somewhat unexpectedly) in the air, and a weak Union attack • enabled the visiters to make the contest look like a laughter. Aerials Click Just when the game started to remind many of the Alumni of the disastrous 1-6-1 season of 1966, the Garnet passing game came to life with a bang. The Ken Pearce to Rich Swan combination, which produced Little All-American honors for the wingback in 196 7, showed its old scoring punch as the Garnet scored four touchdowns in less than twenty-five minutes. Union's first score came on a successful nine-yard toss to Swan after the speedy senior had moved the ball into scoring position with catches good for 19 and 20 yards. Off to the Races After the defense held, Swan electrified the crowd with a beautiful 67-yard TD romp after receiving the pass from Pearce. Rich took the pass between two Yellowjacket defenders, faked both of them, and turned on his fabled speed to outrace everyone to the end zone. However, after cutting the Rochester lead to 28-14, the frustrating bad luck that plagued the Garnet's home opener loss to St. Lawrence carne to the fore. After another successful defensive effort by the Dutchmen, Pearce led the team close to paydirt as the third quarter was drawing near a close. An interception promptly halted the threat. After the defense, as is its fashion, once again held, more bad luck just about sealed the Garnet's fate. On the ensuing punt, saftey man Larry Bloom fumbled the catch and the Y ellowjackets took over on the Union 22. An interference call gave Rochester the ball on the Garnet 4, and three players later the score was 34-14. The Garnet scored twice more on a nine-yard TD pass to Swan and a one-yard plunge by so ph running back Rick Jasczask, the tlnal to coming with only 33 seconds left. The Dutchmen Continued on page 5 THE PEANUT STORE Pennel Esso Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranken THEH~pHOP :;:~ The Hip Hop to Europe on Icelandic Airlines saves you $161 flying to Luxembourg. Daily flights from New York to Iceland • Luxem- bourg • England • Scotland • Norway • Sweden • Denmark. See your Travel Agent or write for folder CN, Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave. (Rockefeller Center), New Vorl<, N.Y. 10020 (212) PL 7-8585. LOWEST AIR FARES TO EUROPE ICELANDIC AIRLINES '0 1U?11Jl.!JjJJ HEADING FOR SIX: Garnet wingback Rich Swan turns-on the speed a11d outraced the Rochester defenders to score a 67-yard touchdown late in the third quarter. Swanc2llj!llt passes for 193 yards, but Union lost, 34-28. Photo by C. Long '73 Grid Shines In Defeat Friday afternoon, the Union freshman football team traveled to Trinity College to face a far more experienced squad, and came up on the short end of a 19-17 score. A it hough the team lost, there were several bright spots indicating more success in future games. The Dutchmen fell behind early in the game when Trinity scored on a short first period plunge. Following the successful PAT, the Garnet By DENNlS ALSOFROM found themselves behind 7-0. Later in the same quarter, Union's Bob Mitchell booted a field goal from near the 20-yard stripe to round out the opening period scoring. Trinity opened the scoring in the second stanza with an off-tackle slant good for four yards and a touchdown. Following the Bantam touchdown, there was no additional scoring until the closing seconds of the first half. It was at this point that UNION vs. R. P. I. On WRUC This Sat. 1:30 Brought to you by DOUGlAS SCHENECTADY'S LEADING MEN'S SHOE STORE FEATURING OUR FAMOUS BRANDS BOSTONIAN • MANSFIELD • WALL-STREETER • J3ATES FLOATERS • HUSH PUPPIES • WALK-OVER • ~EBAGO-MOCS • DINGO BOOTS • DANIEL GREEN SLIPPERS • GOODRICH CANVAS & RUBBER FOOTWEAR ATTENTION STUDENTS $1. OF~ , Oa Purchase Of Shoes Upon Presenting I.D. Card DOUGLAS SCHENECTADY'S LEADING MEN'S SHOE STORE Open Tuesday & Thursday 'til 9 Tel. 374-8577 319 State Street (Next to the Underpass) the Union defense began to jell, putting up an inspired goal-lLne stand and forcing Trinit::y to attempt a short field goal. The Carnet defenders overran the Trinity line and smothered the field goal effort. Union's Jack Siedleck.i alertly scooped up the loose ball and scampered 96 y~uds for a score. Bob M i t ch e II added the extr-a-point making the half-time score 13-10, Trinity. \Vhat proved to be the decisi-ve score came about late in tlt.e third quarter~ when Trinity tallied on a short run, thereby leaving the Garnd witl1 a nine-point deficit. Early in the fourth quarter, the Dutchmen came l>ack on Curtis Rowe's 2-yard burst up the middle. Mitchell then added the team's finat point, rna.l<ing the score 19-I 7. 1'he Yearlings nearly pulled the game from the jaws ()f defeat in the closing minu1:es but lacked the time neces~ary to draw witWn field goal range. 11:J.e frosh gridders will attempt to even their record this Friday against Hollart on Alexander Field. Professional lrp ing Service I 81\11 Selectric. Greek and Maih symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typillg Doctoral theses. Reasonable rates. Dependable. Cal 1489·6978 any time. ' . J t I ,~• ) ' ' VOL. 9! 31 Protestors beginning Bin~ Milil Rcpre: Den1oc rat i downed tl hard-fough the militat in a pane Relations 7:45 in Ha Rep. Bi criticism o considered United Sta A gradt Sch()ol, R, years in assistant tc director o affairs. adn1inistra Admin ist r: I'CGD!deJ. i Point FoUl Follow! New Yorl rcprcse n t e min is ter c ambassadc He held t Congress i

t. r, t, j , .. J ' ' \ '· ) ' Founded at Cnion College 18?'7 VOL. 99, NO. 11 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, OCTOBER 17, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS 3000 March, Canvass City On Moratorium Day Protestors rally at Nott Memorial Before beginning march. (Photo by Geor~e Kaplan) Bingham to Blast Military ~udget Representative Jonathan Bingham. Den1tH:ratic Congressman from the Bronx who downed the entrenched Charles Burkley in a hard·fought primary battle in 1964. \Will debate the militarilization of America's foreign policy in a panel at the Union College International Relations Club Tuesday night October 21 at 7:45 in Hale House. Rep. Bingham, increasingly outspoken in his criticism of America's military budget, has been considered by some a potential candidate for United States Senator. Yale Graduate A graduate of Yale University and Yale Law Sch()ol, Rep. Bingham spent his early political years in the State Department, as spedal assistant to the Secretary of State and assistant u ire ct or of the office of intemat ional security affairs. His observatio.ns as deputy adn1inistrator of Lhe Technical Cooperation Ad111inistration (the Point Four Program) were reL'Oided in his book Shirt,Sleeve Diplomacy: Point Fom in Action. Ft)Ilowing a six-year terlll as .secretary to New York Governor Averell Harriman, he represented the United States at the U.N .. as a minister on the trusteeship council and as an ambassador on the economic ai1u social council. He held this post until his successful race for Congress in J 964. Organizers of the anti-Vietnam war Moratorium march and community canvassing which drew an estimated 3,000 demunslrators Wednesday termed local response \fantastic.\ \We figured a good day would be 1 ,000 marchers and 150 canvassers. As it was, we had three,to,four thousand marchers and we had to start turning people away after giving out 250 literature packets,\ said Barry Katzman, head of the Union College Social Action Committee which organized the event. Katzman praised the Schenectady Police Department for \really trying to help us. They gave us good protection and cooperation.\ Police and college student marshals lined the parade route from the college campus to Veteran's Memorial Park at State Street and Nott Terrace. Stop Killing Marchers carrying placards bearing the slogan \Stop the Killing\ stretched six blocks from up Jay and State streets to the park at the peak of the march short!¥ aftemoon. Most of the march was 4uiet except for occasional chants of\Peace Now!\ Katzman said he was \'very surprised\ by the large number of high school students who participated in the march, including those from Niskayuna, Linton, Mount Pleasant and Burnt Hills. high schools. Two,Thirds March Katzman estimated that about two-thirds of the Union student body participated in the march. Also represented were the local New Democratic Coalition and Schenectady Clergy and Laymen Concerned About Vietnam. The march followed two showings on campus of \The War Game,\ a documentary on the possibility of nuclear war, and a By PAUL ANDREWS talk by Allen Brick, Fellowship of Reconciliation represent·ative, in front of Nott Memorial. In his talk Brick stressecl that the purpose of tllc Moratorium was tu emphasize ''what the administration's options are at this point. We want to provide enough opposite pressure to that of pro-war segments that Mr. Nixon will see no alternative but to encl this war now.\ Political Prisoners Brick, who recently returned from an investigation of South Vietnamese political prisoner camps, said the estimated 3,000 polit iL·al pri-;oner' is \way he low\ the actual number. Most uf the prisoners, including many yuung Buduhbt leaders, arc accused of being Viet Cong sympathizers, sometimes only on the basis of advocating a coalition government or negotiations with the Viet Cong. Mr. Brick said. The afternoon canvassing includ.ed local businesses and residences. \1r. Katzman said. He said that some 30,000 fact sheets on the war were distributed during the canvassing. The Marchers descend on downtown Schenectady bearing the banners of Peace. (Photo by D. Kaplain) Murphy ROTC Motion Loses A general Faculty meeting on Wednesday afternoon, during the Vietnam Moratorium resoundingly defeated a motion by Prof. William Murphy, Department of English, proposing the .revocation of voting privileges of Air Force ROTC Faculty. The meeting also heard President Harold C'. Martin outline future proposed building plans. A number of faculty members argured against the Murphy motion on the grounds that stripping ROTC' faculty members of voting privileges would create a \second By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, Jr. class dtizcnship\ within the faculty that would be against the spirit of the faculty constitution. The motion was defeated by a show of .hands. A petition signed by 33 faculty members calling for postponement of the meeting was p1:esented to the President before the meeting began. The petition expressed support for the Vietnam Moratorium and asked that the meeting not go ahead in a \business as usual\ atmosphere. The President said he was unable to postpone the meeting because of committments to be out of town on other dates, and a postponement she said would disrupt the rotation of other meetings. In a report to the faculty, the President outlined tentative building plans necessitated by the introduction of co-education next year, and the planned increase in the size of the student body. He said the projected enrollment for I 97 J. 74 is 2000. which may grown to as many as 2500 within the following decade. Continued on page 4

PAGE2 The- Moratorium and (,omp Ed By NEIL S. KRAMER Reliaih<le observers estimate that there were about three pel()ple from the community for every Union College 1 person in Wednesday's 1\lorato'rium ·day march through downtown Schenectady. And the local press prominoerttly eovered the various statements by Dr. :\lartin and about half of the faculty in support of the Moratorium. The College's impact on the community in this matter ottght to give us a clear image of the potential \influence that the College has in nearly any field where it might coneern itself. It is our feeling that the CoLlege has never used this potential power as it might, and the success of the \1oratorium is a fitting starting point for an examir1ation of this question. A :yeaJ' and a half ago, the faculty committed every Union junim to two terms of a Comp Ed Project that would irJVolw him in field studies in the community and would e&n<·ern him with broad social problems in the Capita'! J)i~trid. But the junior Project has not been a resoundittg !\Uecess. at lea~t in 'iew of indications from recent e01ur~e evaluations. \lnv()hement in the community\ is a very difficult notion arotmd which to structure a course. john Terry and Bill Bennett. two former faculty members, were able to o perationalize community involvement in their course \\VOI'k at the College, their success in this area was due to a wllingness to take risks and open themselves to charges of • 'unprofessionalism.\ But tlu message to the College from the 2000 young, .and not·S'()-young who paraded with Union men through the streetts of this city is that our leadership is highly regarded. Barry Katzman and the student social action committee, Prof. Allen and his petition, Dr. Martin and his presidential colleagues all took a fair measure of risk when th.e::y mixed their convictions with some innovative behavior in order to back the Moratorium. Were this intrepid .and imaginative spirit regorously applied to what is billed as one of the high points in a junior's curriculum here, then the College and the greater . communiiy would both be richer. \Those who make peaceful retJolution impossible make v: O'l 01 t rev o 1 u t ion i n e vi t a b 1 e . .. ~io·· .::s.; .... ~ ~ ,Qlonrnr 17 ?t r.~ qs ~trn.at 9 r\Q\ .. g,~~·· Publ!sbcd Tuesday and Fnday dun:ng 1h~ Un10n College acadern1c year by the Student Body of Union College, Sch<>n cc.tadv. New York. Pub!Jshlcd Thursdays during the l.Jpoward Bound Project by Upwarad Bound students in residcnoce at Union College. N a t '' CJ rta 1 Ad v e r t1 sin g Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, In c.. College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C. Edttorial Off1ce. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416·418 Fifth Ave., Troy, 235·44.50. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEIL S. KRA:\IER Edilor·in-Cli ief HENR.Y FEIN .................... . Managing Editor CARL GOLDS AND ............... Business Manager RICfilARD E. PA TIERSON JR ........... News Editor WILLI AM OUZER ................ Executive Editor PETERWEINGOLD ................ Features Editor BILLHOLLERAN ................... Sports Editor JODY' SASLOW ................ Photography Editor OCTOBER 17, 1969 Letters To The Editor Sub-Human? To the Editor: This letter is addressed to all students of Union College who opposed the war in Viet Nam. Our college catalogue sets the acquisition of ''a sense of the range of human possibilities\ as a noble objective of this institution. Last Wednesday's Moratorium showed once again, th.at the majority of Union students are complacent about pressing issues, at least to the point of w all<ing eight blocks in demonstration. This is not to say that all remained passive. There were the \Lieb· haber's\ the \Markman's\ and the '\Katzman's\, dedicated organizers of the Moratorium, and those few students who did participate. For them we should be grateful. But it was the .. townies\ (and I use the term respectfully) ironically enough, those faceless sub-humans we sneer at con de see ndingly, who marched and canvassed for something as abstract and intellectual as peace. Three-quarters of the \student activists\ were young area boys and girls who really only care about \hot cars\ and that cute fullback on the football team. Perhars most of those who didn't participate took Nixon at his words (that in itself is a risky undertaking), \under no circumstances will I be affected whatever by it.\ The one fact remains that whether we develop that \sense of the range of human possibilities\ here at Union does not really matter. The real motivation and courage is being safely preserved within another form of youth in Schenectady. To those who didn't participate because they do not oppose the Viet Nam War, I extend my condolences. Mark Sanderson '72 Anti=M.F.E. To the Editor: I have become aware in these, the first three weeks I have spent here, that there is considerable controversy concerning whether or not the Seniors should be required to take a Major Field Examination. I have also had the chance to hear some opinions expressed by the faculty on the matter-which seemed to be in. favor generally with the idea of a M. F .E. although some teachers expressed the view that they wanted to see a change in format. By the time I am a Senior, I would like to see a change in format also. I would Like to see the M.F.E. abolished. I' say this because I do not think they reallY prove anything important. I believe the grade you receive on such an examination is just a token. To illustrate my point, please examine this example. Imagine an English Major who takes all the required courses for all four years and miraculously gets a 75 as a final grade in every single course. Now C()mes M.F.E. time -the \ultimate test\. Suppose Mr. Seventy Five gets, a C on his test. What ltas been proven by his taking the test other than that the test was neither too difficult nor too easy? Wbat does an A represent but the amount of studying the student did in preparation for the test? Granted that the B student or C student would have to work less .to get the A than the D student, but it could conceivably be· done and that is the point. Al~o. I heard one professor in favor of the M.F.E. say that the test was necessary to rnal<e sure the Union gradaate was familiar with the important facts that all B.A.'s should know. Is it not conceivable that if these facts were that important then the student would. make an a tt ernpt to learn them thrGugh the course of his four years without having to U!ke a test to prove that he knew them? And as I implied bef<lre, does the examination really prove that you know these facts or rather that you s tu.died for a sufficient amount of time to impress your professor with the fact that you know your stuff? I ask that a student be judged solely by his fom years' past performance (and for English Majors, by a thesis) instead of by that, plus a multiple-hour examination. Jim Field '73 Signers=On To the Editor: I regret that my name was n.ot included with other signers of Professor Allen's memorandum of support of the October 15th moratorium. I did sign the letter, and know of others from Carnegie Hall who signed and were not listed in your October 1Oth issue. It is important that students understand that the published lists do not include all faculty members who support this vital and significant event. Gard11er M. Ketchum Editor's Note: Other signers of the petition not named in past issues were: Arnold Seiken John Roulier Fred G. Haag William R. Strait Edwin F. Gillette Frank Calabria Clifford Pearce Joseph B. B()ard, Jr. Joseph Finkelstein Edward J. Craig Theodore G. Schwartz Mrs. Jane Allen Mrs. W. Loretta Walker UNION vs. R. P. I. On WRUC This Sat. 1 :30 Brought to you by DOUGLAS SCHENECTADY'S LEADING MEWS SHOE STORE FEATURING OUR FAMOUS BRANDS BOSTONIAN • MANSFIELD • WALL-STREETER • BATES FLOATERS • HUSH PUPPIES • WALK-OVER • ~EBAGO-MOCS • DINGO BOOTS • DANIEL GREEN SLIPPERS • GOODRICH CANVAS & RUBBER FOOTWEAR ATTENTION STUDENTS $1. OFF On Purchase Of Shoes Upon Presenting I.D. Carel DO:UGLAS SCH EN ECT ADY'S LEADING MEN'S SHOE STORE Open Tuesday & Thursday 'til 9 Tel. 374,&577 319 State Street (Next to the Underpass) r OCT0!3l TWI By ROBE \Paran two film playing Theater, :J apiece to SKIN and interested the purp< sexual de find a hm State Stre Anym actually S( for that that can film, ougl not waste $1.50. Th going exp quite a ·f quite a fe• sex. I h: he~ml, l1o• as bbtant these. eve theater th Ill N.Y.( geared for Althou; '\Yes\ at· skin flick~ actually \' Paralloia' seeming! relatively beautiful sets, an company: Baker. It which i interesting come .off screenwdt prepa rin: dialogue t It f realistic. attempted decent p the actors film migh seeing. U men quite to cottcen aspects .of do so wit! AlthOUJ not offer (ont:e up< Baker td ' b 0 X 0 ffi< succeed, < Italy to n this). it oftTer an- · sexual act film the a in varyihl sexuaL cunni lin! sadism an< three way· Throug acts, c[ another v bare all something fuss abou 1 Yellow\). beauty o romp in! partaking sexual pl1 make unimaginal ability in ' again, witl script an< direction, be any att acting? l everything ~ 1 the co cameraw< create ca

I of 73 of in de in OCT0!3ER 17, 1969 PAGE3 Two Porno Flix Play Proctors the moment she meets Ingrid, a seventeen ye~w old peasant girl, obviously wants to make love to her. She takes to .Stocklwlin as J model, sets her up v;i tl1 a guy wlw introduces her to sex, <.~nd after several heterosexual affairs flngrid's J really hut clllll horny girl) the fashion designer and lngriJ finally have their lesbian affair. Str4u1gcly enough, rela · little skin am! few sexual ~cts arc shown until the fin·al scene. When the girls have their affair, they show everything they have including what was excluded from '\Paranoia ... The a(;ting in \'Yes\ isn't as bad as that in \'P~ranoia\, but everything else is far worse. By ROBERT ALAN LEVINE \Parano.ia\ and \Yes\, the two films which are now playing at the Proctor's Theater, have only one thing apiece to offer the audience- SKIN and lots of it! Anyone interested in seeing a film for the purpose of arousing his sexu~l desires will no doubt find a haven in the theater on S ~~ te Street. Anyone i,ntercsted in actually seeing a good film m, for that matter, something that can fairly be called a film, ought to stay away and not waste the 3 hours or the $1.50. Throughout my movie going experience, I have seen quite a few bacl films ~nd quite a few films that exploit sex. I have never seen or heard, however. of two films as h Ia tan fly pornogr;~phic as these. ever being shown in. a theater that .isn't on 42nu St. 111 N .Y.C'. or exclusively geared for smut. Although ''Paranoia\ and \Yes\ are both obviously skin flicks, the two films are actually quite dissimilar. \Para11oia\ is an Italian film, seemingly made on a relatively large budget, with beautiful color, fairly lavish sets, an Italian production company and .cast, a11d Caroll Baker. lt even has a plot which is occassionally interesting, but it just doesn't · 1 ' come off. Perhaps, if the screenwriter concentrated on preparing a script with dialogue that at least seemed realistic . and the director 't attempted to bring out some i decent performances from J ol.· the actors and actresses, the film might have been worth seeing. Unfortunately, both men quite obviously decided to co11centrate on the sexual aspects .of the film and they do so with great enthusiasm. Although the film docs not offer an impressive cast (once upon a time Carol! Baker tried to become a ' 'hoxoffice star, didn't succeed, and, thus, went to Italy to make films auch as this). it nevertheless docs of!Ter an- tmpressive array of sexual acts. Throughout the film the audience is offered. in varying degrees, normal sexual intercourse, cunni linguis, I e s b ian ism, sadism and rnasochism, and a three way love tryst. Throughout these various acts. Carol! Baker and another very beautiful girl bare all (welL all except something that caused such a fuss about \I Am C'urious 1 Yellow\). Unfortunately, the beauty of these two girls romping around and J ,. partaking in their various sexual pleasures. does not make up for their unimaginable lack of acting ability in this film. But, then again, with a poorly written script and annoyingly bad ~ direction, why should there be any attempt at reasonable acting? The editing, like everything else, is poor, and p 1 the combination of camera work of direction create camera shots and angles that are often annoying to the eyes. Even the music is irritatingly obtrusive. As bad as ••,Paranoia\ may be, ··Yes\ a Swedish import, is far worse. Whereas \Paranoia\ to have some doesn't really waste its time with such an unimportant matter. There is a very thin story line, but even this seems to exist solely to differentiate the film from an actual stag movie. Basically, the story concerns a frustrated, lesbian fashion designer who from In effect, both \'Paranoia\ and \Yes\ cater only to the most purient interest and have \no redeeming social value\ whatsoever. *CEILING AND VISIBILITY UNLIMITED At Pratt & Whitney Aircrait \ceiling and visibility unlimited\ is not just an expression. For exam pie, the President of our parent corporation joined PJ.WA only two years after receiv· ing an engineer-ing degree_ The preceding President, now Chairman, never worked hlr any other company. The current President of P&WA started in ()Ur engineering department as an experimental engineer and moved up to his present position. In fact, the majority of our senior officers all have one thing in common - degrees in an engineering or scientific field. To insure CAVU*, we seled our engineers and scientists carefully. Motivate them 'lie !I. Give them the equipment and facilities only a leader can [)rovide. Offer them company-paid, graduate education opporlti nities. Encourage them to push into fields that have not 'b.een explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit Jli(Jre responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well Vlhen they do manage it. Your degree can be a B.S., N.S., or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL • CIVIL • MARINE • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEM· ISTRY o METALLURGY • NATERIALS SCIENCE • CERAM- ICS • MATHEMATICS • ~TATISTICS • COMPUTER SCI· ENCE • ENGINEERING SCIE~CE o ENGINEERING MECHANICS. Consult your college placEment officer - or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Conmcticut 06108. CAVU• might also mean full. utilization of your technical skills through a wide range of ch<il£enging programs which include jet engines for the newest military and commercial aircraft, gas turbines for industrial and r11arine use, rocket engines for space programs, fuel cells for spa.t~ vehicles and terrestrial uses, and other at:lvanced systems. Pratt & Whitney ~ircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION f:l EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA An Eqtu'l Opportuntty Employer

PAGE 4 City J:udge Gives Grant Schenectady City Court Judge William J. Quinn has established an annual scholarship at Union \to promote the necessary interest in politics and government by a younger generation.\ Judge Quinn has established the amount of the annual award at $1,000, President Harold C. Martin ROTC Vote In Faculty Challenged Continued from page I To prepare for the approximately 130 women to be admit ted next fall, Richmond House will be renovated into a woman's residencee next Summer. After that, North College, Bronner House, and possibly North Colonade, presently the home of the Psychology Department, will be made into a series of suites for women. The President's report cited the feasibility of Turning either Fox or Davidson into a Co-ed dormitory. He also mentioned the possibility of reclaiming faculty homes on campus to be used as cooperative living units for women. Regarding parietals, the President said, '\at this stage, our concern should be to treat girls like other students, and let them work out their own parietals. He pointed out a need to develop tighter dormitory security when the women arrive. Extensive rev1s1ons in dining facilities are planned. As soon as. present facilities are no longer adequate, Old Chapel will become a dining hall. Later Old Gym may be extended over the court to Hale House to provide more dining space. The President stressed that none of these plans are definite yet, except those concerning North College and Silliman Hall. said in announcing the gift. Selection of the winner or winners will be made by the College each year, beginning in 1970. \We are grateful to Judge Quinn, who has a distinguished political record himself, for this assistance to our growing program in political science,\ Dr. Martin said of the award. \Such studies now engage one of the largest groups within the college, and we share with Judge Quinn the hope that this presages a new involvement by young people in responsible political action.\ 'Toga May Host More Women In New College Officials of Verrazzano College, a women's college are negotiating to buy the old downtown campus of Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs. New York Democratic Mayoral candidate Mario A. Proccacino is president· d.esignate of Verrazzano College, which is not yet a functioning institution. Joseph C. Palamountain, president of Skidmore College, said Tuesday night, \We've been negotiating the sale and joint use of the old .... campus with Verrazzano, among others. OCTOBER 17, 1969 Friends Of Library Form Students wishing to contribute to the growth and development of the college library may join the \Friends of the Union College Library.\ The purpose of the group is to develope the basic collection of the library, and enable it to purchase books which would not normally be bought due to pressing curricular needs. Thus, it is hoped that money raised by the group will help build the college library into a strong, well rounded institution for the future, the college and its community. Student members receive a periodic newsletter from the library telling of new acquisitions and the development of the libraries programs. Members are automatically informed and invited to all exhibitions and programs sponsored by or held in association with the library. The student membership fee is ten dollars annually. They may be obtained at the library. Professie»nal Typing Service IBM Selectric. Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typing Doctoral theses. Reasonable rates. Dependable. Call 489-6978 any time. The college you can't get into without a job. KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street 'Ne Cater To Un•on Studcnr~ 10°~ Service Discount The college is ours- Western Electric's Corporate Education Center in Hopewell, New Jersey. Like your college, ours has a campus with dorms, dining halls, labs and a library. Unlike yours, you can't get into ours without a job. A job at Western Electric. Our students-engineers, managers and other professionals- develop and expand their skills through a variety of courses, from corporate operations to computer electronics. To help bring better telephone service and equipment, through the Bell System. For information contact your placement office. Or write: College Relations Manager, Western Electric Co., Room 2500, 222 Broadway, New York, New York 10038. An equal opportunity employer. @ !!!,!!~~~~Y~~o!~!t~~~ I ,. ,, , ' ,J •I • ,) ( I ,. I <. 1 I J ( OCTOBEI ThE Nor \If Trid think he'll crowds in to call up Ranch.\ Gregory, began the area. The comb ina auditoriur applauded Gregory's all was sf squeezed eight in believing · be, as Gn most imp history. The 1 with Ala: work u emotion: students f neighbor gatherec Memorial, of the orderely ~ When on crowd, n to be unr and the 1965; on poster wi1 too, Har however, who cou proper s read, Fud The uneventfu were app the crowd one lane Her1 60's \The p Wealth C worls s Edibility worlds co1 This w Keynote Conferenc Methodist Dr. Rol Chairman of Econ Methodist on Octob• his add Wideninl Shrinking Dr. He \the we~ have th eliminatin disease frc \as long hvae this not use nations, peace on describe· between t

~69 md md or the hip Uy. the -·.1 td )f in !S, s. ,. ( ,, ,) \ I \ • ' '· I I OCTOBER 1.7, 1969 The Man Won't Hear, Nor See, Nor Speak .. by DANNY SHOCKET minutes for the entire crowd to pass one point. Unofficial observers estimated that the crowd was about 2000. The crowd soon reached the park on State Street. The marshalls now warned the crowd to keep off the grass. Steve Goodman decided the flag should be at half-mast. When the police disagreed with Steve'.s tactics, Steve was arrested after leading an obese cop and several plainclothemen, who had been in the crowd on a merry chase. PAGE5 !\~ 1 ~}) , l \If Tricky Dickie doesn't think he'll be affected by the crowds in the street, he ought to call up the guy on the LBJ Ranch.\ So said Dick Gregory, as he officially began the moratorium in the area. The audience in Siena's combination gynasium-- auditorium, mostly youths, applauded frequently during Gregory's truth session. When all was said, Union students squeezed back seven and eight in the cars, almost believing that Oct. IS would be, as Gregory promised, the most important day in our history. The Motatorium began with Alan Brick trying to work us down to an emotional pacifism. As students from the college and neighboring high schools gathered at the Nott Memorial, we were again told of the importance of an orderely and peaceful march. When one looked over the crowd, the warning seemed to be unnecessary. The signs and the mood were from 1965; one girl even had a poster with the legend \You too, Hanoi.\ There was, however, one malcontent who couldn't join in the proper spirit. His placard read, Fuck the War.\ The crowd threatened to become unruly. The marshalls and friends kept the crowd together, and order was restored. Everyone can be proud that they did not give the police an excust to break up the demonstration. Moratorium supporters gather in front of Nott Memorial to prepare for march. (Photograph by George Kaplan) The march began uneventfully. Marshalls that were appointed hastily told the crowd they should stay in one lane. It took eight Once it was assured that the crowd was peaceful, we hurried to the police station. Steve was whisked away in a waiting unmarked car. We arrived in time to see him being shoved through the door. A plainclothesman approached us. \What are you doing here?'' I held up my press pass. \Concordy. Union college newspaper. We'd like to know about the kid you just arrested.\ \You'll know when we're ready to make a statement.\ \When will that be?\ ''When we're ready. You Herman At Trinity Church: 60's A Decade Of Despair \The privilege Gap and the Wealth Gap threatens the worls stability, but the Edibility Gap threatens the worlds conscience.'' This was the theme of the Keynote address at Albany Conference of the United Methodist Church given by Dr. Robert S. Herman, Chairman of the Department of Economics, at Trinity Methodist Church in Albany on October, 15. The title of his address was \The Widening Gap on Our Shrinking Planet.\ Dr. Herman claimed that \the wealthy nations now have the capability of eliminating starvation and disease from this planet\ and \as long as the rich nations hvae this capability and do not use it to help poor nations, there can be no peace on earth.\ He also described the \division between the poverful and the pitiful\ as \more dangerous\ to survival than \all the dynamite stored in our military warehouses.\ Decade of Development \Our w orksters have labelled the 1960's the •decade of development.' This is a lie. For most of the world's population, it has been a decade of desperation and despair,\ declared Dr. Herman. The problem of ••acute famine,\ \nutritional deficiency,\ and its effects on two-thirds of the world's population were discussed. Dr. Herman said that •'Prosperity is good only when it is shared,\ and that \One must give as we take.'' \The moral imperative, \ said Dr. Herman, \to share our riches has become a social imperative, and is rapidly becoming a condition for survival of both poor and rich peoples.\ from the college?\ \Yes.\ \That's great. Who's controlling that mob out there?\ \What mob?\ Another plainclothesman joined the group. \You kids are supposed to be educated! You'.re nothing but fucking scum! This is what I think of you!\ As a visual aid, he spit. I personally thought fucking scum was adequate. Feeling none too safe at the police station, we ran back to the march. Those who had not left to see the World Series were canvassing. \Sir can I. .. \ \Just give me one, I gotta go.\ Things quieted down until MacKin nan Speaks Here Next Monday Donald MacKinnon, Director of the Institute of Personality Assessment and Research, at the University of California in Berkeley, will be Convocation Speaker at Union College Monday night, October 20, at 8:00pm in SS16. Dr. MacKinnon is the season's first Ichabod Spencer Lecturer in Psychology, a series supported at Union by the Leavitt Fund. Dr. MacKinnon specializes in the study of human creativity--just what is it that makes one person brilliantly creative, another dull and unimaginative? What ·factors enable a person in any field to produce unique, creative work rather than the merely routine? In his talk, Dr. MacKinnon will describe how he conducts objective research into such a seemingly subjective field of human personality. six-thirty, when the caravan left the college for a candlelight march in Albany. We stood amid six thousand marchers who walked on the sidewalk to the capitol. The Union contingent arrived as Eugene Nickerson was in the process of parodying every other anti-Vietnam speech. The throng was patient and orderly until Dan Button, Representative from the area, tried to say as little as possible for the longest amount of time. Angry at being used, the crowd began - to chant, \Peace Now!\ and began to hurl epithets at the hapless congressman, such as \Equivicator \You're a politician,\ and \Button is a hole!\ And so, the protests against the Vietnam war ended. Watch for the announcements of the meeting to decide how we'll get to Washington for the protest of November 13, 14, and IS. This is of course barring that Nixon screws us out and withdraws the troops before then. Union Rugby Team Plays Wesleyan University Sat. by L. MARK SWEENEY The Union College Rugby Club will open its fall season tomorrow with a home match against Wesleyan University to be played on Library Field at 12:00 noon. As for any predictions, it will largely be a defensive game for the Schenectady ruggers. Almost all of the Union running attack, known as the three quarter line, will be returning from last year to add some experience to the squad. However, the predo min an tly important part of the team, called the serum, whose job it is to get the ball away from the opposition and to its own three quarter line, is new somewhat inexperienced. Thus, as is the case with any new team,. mistakes are to be expected which may cause some harm to the running attack for Union. Last spring the rugby club suffered uncountable injuries which can sometimes be expected since there is constant tackling, grabbing, pushing, and kicking. Some of those lost players were valuable for their height which is needed to get the pigskin away from the defense. This fall the ruggers hope to compensate for any deficiencies by utilizing theli speed and getting the ball to the three quarter line so that they may score. For the first few games, the Union club will have to play conservately until the new members get the hang of this unusual game. The Union Rugby Club will host five games this season. Following their opening match on October 18 against Wesleyan, the ruggers will play host to Albany Law School on October 25. The next home match is scheduled for Noverber 8 against the University of Vermont Rugby Club to be followed the next weekend with a contest against the Schenectady Rugby Club. The last game of the season will be played on the Union grounds against Albany Medical School on November 22.

PAGE6 Harriers Whip H·obart; Williston Tramples '73 By MARK SHUGOLL & GREG HAMLIN The varsity cross-country te<un captured its second meet in as many tries last Wednesday, as they ripped Hobart 21-39. The triumph itself was not particularly surprising, but the large margin of vic tnry was. The Garnet harriers are coming off a 1-4 season. and have a squad made up entirely of unproven freshmen sophmores. and juniors. Sophmore Bryant Moeckel gairtcd individual honors for the second straight time, with a winning margin of 13 seconds over Saeli, the second pla..:e finisher from Hobart. Moeckel's time was 30: 3~. over Union's new home course. Star Harrier MoeckeL who starred for the freshmen team last year, is running extremely well and is livin~ up to all expectations. C' oach Ron Coleman considers him uf the calibre of being one of the top ten runners in the state. Wir11 two years of eligibility still remaining. Moeckel may prove himself even better than that. Tl1e team itself is improving with every meet. Before the season, Coach Coleman stressed the importance of cutting down the time hetweeH his number one and number five man. In their opening meet. this time intervul \-vas I :54, while against Hobart, the difference was down to I: 32. Face Eitgineers Tomorrow the Garnet runners face perhaps their toughest test in R.P.I. The Engineers have put h>gether a 5-2 record. losing only to Cortland State and Springfield, and are led by last year's State Champion. Art Pollack. '7 3 Trouitced Uninn's freshman cross-count IY team was up-ended by an experienced Williston Academy squad Wednesday, 18-45. The Williston harriers captured all but two of the top ten finishing spots in gaining the lop-sided vil.\tory. The top runner for the Ga.rnct was Jim Huston, who finished third. Huston should do even better in the future meets, although he ran quite well on Wednesday. Also finishing strong for the '73 team was Mark Brenneman, finishing in the 9th spot. Tomorrow the Union men enmunter what will probably be their stiffest competition of the year when they meet the RPI Engineers at Troy. '73 Boot Tops Williston By MIKE IIUMBER Union's freshmctn soccer team notched its fourth win without a loss on Wednesday as it convincingly topped the Williston Academy squad by the margin o( 3-1. Wednesday's victory assures the Garnet of a winning season. as tile yearlings have only three contests remaining. h)llowjng a scoreless first periou. the Garnet gut on the score board VIa a Bob Kusier boot. Union's lead was then increased to 2·0 when Bob Bernhardt tapped the ball into the net following a wild scramble in the penalty box. The defense then held Williston scoreless until there were thirty-three seconds left in the haiL The late tally by the opposition sahved the Union lead to 2·1. Defense Sparkles The defense stole the show in the second half. holding Willistnn scoreless, while Bob Bernhardt beat the goalie with his fifth s~orc of the season. Bernhardt, a su rp rising performer. has .. taken over the team's scoring lead. As a team, the Dutchmen in1proved considerably over last Friday's performance, turning in a better all-around performance despite some sluggish moments. Unfortuflately. high-scoring Kosier was injured in the tl1ird stanza. The ex tent of his injuries are not known, but his playing status is doubtful for next week's (mlt est. :--.!ext Tuesday, the frosh will at tempt to take another step closer to their undefeated season when they meet Oneonta on Garis Field. ! /~- N;::·~---- : ~';).\; ~ Time /~f~· To \ Sprm~~,~~!~\~ ~m'< I . .fan,\ ·Buy. ) our Weddmg Rtng at ·\.iau!Ite (;raubart & Son' · lev.etcrs. lob la} St. Ser.tng l n10n for 1 gcnnJtJUn' OCTOBER 17, 1969 Grid, RPI Clash Tol1Wrrmv The oldest college football rivalry in New York State, the RPI-Union series dating back to 1886, will have its 67th renewal tomorrow when the two traditional rivals in a II sports meet on the Engineers' '86 Field. One of the oldest rivalries in all of college football, it all dates back to Nov. 18, 1886. Since that time Union has taken either a commanding, 50- I 2-4 lead in the series, or has a 48-14-4 bulge according to RPI's files. RegardJcss, this year's game stacks up as every bit as interesting as most of the previous 66. Union will be coming off its best season in I 9 years. a 7-1 mark. The Dutchmen have a host of talent returning including veteran quarterback. Ken Pearce, junior running back Larry · Football Stats RUSHING Yds. Yds. Player Rushes (;d. Loss Net Ave. TDs Rkh Jaszczak, 1'13 5R 145 -7 23R 4.1 2 Larry Sykes, liB 65 213 -32 lSI l.H 3 Joe Kirkup, 1·13 24 91 -1 <)(] 2.H 0 Larry Bloom, HB 8 25 0 25 3. t () Rich Swan, HB 2 4 0 4 2.0 0 Dan Kerkhoff, QB 9 7 -50 -43 -43 -4.H Ken Pearce. QB II 3 -80 -77 -7.0 [) Union Totals 177 SRH -170 41R 2.4 5 Opp. Totals 210 Hit'> -91 725 3.5 10 PASSING: Sykes and receiver RichSwan on offense and little all-Am:eri.can honorable mention Steve Ciesinski at defensive halfback. So far this season, however, the Garnet are struggling, having lost three in a row after demolishing Worcester Tech in their season opener. The Engineers will be trying to pick themselves up from a disappointing 2-7 season in 1968, and should have the horses to do it. Junior quarterback Steve LaMore, who set five school records and finished 18th in the nation in passing in less than a full season, returns and will have a good target for his passes in Junior Rich Kelly. The Engineer offense is quite explosive, having tied Trinity last weekend, 43-43. The Engineers also boast letterman at every position along both the offensive and defensive lines, with some good sophomores likely to replace veterans. Player Alt. Comp. Yds. lladlnt. TD' Conv. It figures to be at least as exciting a game as last year's which Union won by the deceptively easy score of 24-14. In that game, the Dutchmen built up a quick I 7 - 0 a d van t age, saw it dwindle to 17-14, and did not add the stopper until only I : I 0 remained to be played. Ken Pearce, QH 121 49 513 5 Dan Kerkhoff, QB 15 2 24 2 Union Totals 136 51 537 7 Opp. Totals 69 30 310 5 RFCFIVING: Player Caught Yds. Gd. T!Js Rich Swan, 1113 17 257 4 Mike Kumpf, I· 16 126 0 Dan Gould, F 8 95 0 Larry Sykes, liB 5 20 0 Mike Bloom. liB 2 16 0 Joe Kirkup, I·B 2 15 0 Jim Sabella, K 8 0 Union Totals 51 537 4 Opp. Totals 25 310 2 POV'.R A DOUBLE Ignore the downpour in our double- breasted weather coat of welt-turned twill. We have poured on the details that give it extra flair: great-coat co!tar, precisely placed buttons, on-going length. Weather it's damp or hot, slip into it, soonest. - 4 0 4 2 Conv. 0 0 0 0 0 () () 0 [hr ~q~~,t~,~h~P 0 0 0 A crowd of more than 5 ,000, something not uncommon in this series, is expected to jam '86 Field for the game. Phone 37 2-0528 PARK PIZZERIA .lt.:,'·an ~rrnder~ 0.~·' Specrclty 8ro'\l D'Jv•dsor- H:::Jl' ~ Or(' B!ock ho\' f'\'r Campu'io 25 Por> Place Scl-ten(\ctady N.Y. $45.00- $57~50 Founded al Cniorl College JS? VOL. 99, NO. 12 SCHENECTADY,NEW YORK, OCTOBER 21, 196!: ---------------------------------------- conomist Avery Dies Dr. Harold Gardner Avery, Professor Emeritus at Union College died Thursday MacKinnoi Must Be De , , Morning, October 16, at St. Group education tends to discourage creativity in the student, Dr. Donald MacKinnon of the University of California at Berkeley, said last night in an address at Union College. \I < of th1 norturi de-e 1 educat for cor max.im. the ab: his c Mac.K.iJ \ l ' • (r Clare's Hospital Dr, Avery was a professor of Economics at Union from 1947 to 1967, and a specialist in the field of Accounting. \Professor Avery's contributions to economic accounting were well known and widely published and the college profitted from his reputation in that field, but it profitted even more from his devotion as a teacher,\ said President Martin in a statement issued Friday. The late Harold Avery, Professor Emeritus of Economics, pictured in his teaching days. Noting that the creative student tends to be \more introverted\ with the initiative to \pursue projects of his own making, Dr. MacKinnon said that the biggest task facing education today is to devote more individual attention to the student. He said that this task is made all the mo.re difficult by the population explosion threatening low teacher-student ratios in educational institutions. \A auto techni< can t MacKi researc creativ dis p c himsel: Gro not b studen \In all things the gentleman,\ Dr. Martin continued, \Professor Avery brought to his students, along with respect for learning, a fine example of reasonable firmness, ready humor, and great generosity of heart.\ World War II he served as an officer of the Coast Guard Artillery Corps. WRY Humor Goal Line De Artillery Officer Before coming to Union, Dr. Avery who was born in Edgar, Nebraska, was an Associate Professor of Economics at Bradley · University and head of the Department of Economics at Bethany College. During Dr. Avery was interested in accounting theory, said Professor Finkelstein, Chairman of the History Department and a close friend of Dr. Avery. It was his interest \in the theoretical basis of accounting, in getting behind the figures that made him feel that accounting belonged at Union,\ Findelstein said. As is usually the case, the Garnet football team marcned haughtily over to beautiful downtown Troy Saturday afternoon and defeated the Engineers of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. This time the score was 23-16, Union, and the victory gave the Garnet a somewhat commanding 51-12-4 \edge\ in the oldest OPMOV Does Its Thing: ~!!~~!~!~!~~!:.!.~all i~:re~P~! ~h~~W~ent aesthetic structured body students to come and in dance has been \studying movement, Mrs. Gail George, experience the first session, in N.Y. in the studios of wife of the biology Professor seeing and feeling what it is Martha Graham, and under Carl George, will teach an about, rather than coming Merse Cunningham.\ extra curricular course titled expecting something and OPMOV. feeling obligated to remain Mrs. George is calling this there. course OPMOV, MOV being Mrs. George studied dance an abbreviated form of at Hollins College for four movement, OPMOVE being years. During her graduate parallel to Op Art. She hopes work at Harvard she was to do this by such methods as involved in two experimental projecting slides and playing dance groups. She developed current records, letting the the coreography department .student create his own at the American University in intrepretation of ;yhat he Turkey. Also at the American feels in the· music or .sees in University of Beirut, the slides. Lebanon, she. introduced Come and Experience modern dance into the fine The first meeting of arts department and had her OPMOV will be held this 0 own dance group of six men Wednesday, Oct. 22, at 4:30 and six women. in the Old Chapel. Mrs. Quoting Mrs. George the The Schenectady Museum-Union College concert series opens its 1969-70 schedule Thursday night at 8:30 p.m. with the Fine Arts String Quartet. Tlte program will be held in the Union College Memorial Chapel. The works scheduled for their concert here are Hydn, Qualiet in E flat, Opus 76, Number 6, Beethoven, Quartet No. 9 in C major, Opus 59, Number 3, and Karel Husa, Quartet No. 3 By collegi New · eleven Engim Garne1 one w from forget Shoe~ pre sen contes Sat was r: Garne· nail-bi inspirE the pE clinch upped Th horre Garne fumbl play 1 has ta but h; after I or t' overfl• TO 1 Game Swan York year, outst

PAGE 2 By CHARLES GATI, Associate Professor of Political Science As the one faculty member specializing in international relations at Union, I have been asked by a few students why I would not support the Vietnam Moratorium. True, 'my perspective on the war has changed over the years, as everyone else's, I nevertheless remain firmly opposed to the notion of unilateral withdrawal and I am troubled by the emotions surrounding it. Misleading Justification I a! ways thought the justification for our involvement offered by the Kennedy and Johnson administrations was misleading. We did not, in the final analysis, intervene in Vietnam to uphold \justice\ or \freedom\ -- instead, our unadvertised but unrnistakebly clear purpose was to maintain the balance of power in Asia. This was then and remains today a legitimate, though perhaps exaggerated, purpose for the United States to pursue, for the balance of power is the only guarantee that small nations can possess a degree of choice in their foreign relations; it is the best teclmique against large-scale aggression; and it is, indeed, the only alternative to chaos in the world. Kennedy and Johnson, and now Nixon, have all failed to explain our policy in such terms. They have followed the seemingly easy path of appealing to our emotions and sought to explain Vietnam in either moralistic or ·legalistic fashion. No wonder so many of our highly motivated students, encmuaged by the like of Senator McCarthy who should know better, could not and cannot find a rationale for our policy. They look for · moral precepts in foreign policy where such precepts are normally in short supply. For in foreign affairs every country is at constant intercourse with other countries, if not actually at the mercy of the acts of others, and hence the moral opportunity unfortunately seldom presents itself. What we witness today, then, is the inevitable reaction to the false emotional rhetoric of at least three administrations. This reaction has assumed such proportions that there is no longer any sensible alternative to disengagement. But whether we leave Vietnam next month or gradually extricate ourselves as I hope we will, let us not rejoice! We will betray the refugees who voted with their feet for the corrupt dictatorship of the South as against tite VICIOUS dictatorship of the North. We will betray those South Vietnamese who naively relied on our promise to build a better Vietn.am. We will betray those in Asia and elsewhere who, like President Bourguiba of Tunisia, have maintained all along that our defeat would be a catastrophe for the Third World and very possibly for the rest of the world. Above all, we will reveal for all to see our own cultural inability as a people to pursue a limited war for limited and seemingly amoral objectives, a revelation whose meaning will not be lost on our adversaries. B.LITHER . Representative Jonathan Bingham, Democratic Congressman from the Bronx, will debate the militarization of America's foreign policy in a panel at the Union College International Relations Club Tuesday night at 7:45 in SS 016. There will be a Flu Clinic for all students, Faculty, and Staff of Union on Wednesday, October 22, and Thursday, October 30, from 11:30 a.m. to l p.m. in Silliman Hall. There is no charge for the service. A dishwasher is wanted to work for full btJard at Theta Delta Chi. A choice of working days is available. There will be a Political Forum organizational meeting at 4:30 on Thursday, October 23, in SS 115 Committee positions and future plans will be discussed. All interested students are cordially invited to attend. There will be a meeting of the Sailing Club on Thursday. at 4:30 in SS 115. All those interested in intercollegiate racing should attend. Peter Pause 535 Nott Street f ' Critics' Responsibility This war's radical opponents have succeeded in creating a most profound crisis in American politics and in American education. Their responsibility for the present chaos and for the domestic and foreign consequences of withdrawal is no less than Kennedy's or Johnson's for their own failure to explain and justify our policy. In particular, the c.ritics' responsibility for the polarization of American politics and the rise of isolationist sentiments is unmistakable. One does not need to engage in the kind of abusive polemics they like so much to suggest that Senator Fulbright, for example, whose conscience does not seem to extend below the OCTOBER 21, 1969 The Past M,islakes, The Present ,Burdens, Examination of The \Bug Out\ M:entality Mason·Dixte line,.would serve the Vice-Presidency, someone his country well by ought to remind him that he abandoning the theatrics ·of is running for office in the the Foreign Relations city of New York and not in Committee in favor of Hanoi. Given his platform advancing the cause of justice and a :ppeal, one wonders if he in Arkansas. As for Mayor know:s. Lindsay who nominated none Semator McCarthy is a other than Spiro Agnew for speci~l ca:;e. Remember his 3 GRAND OPENIN·G --- Qtbaptet VII (BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE CLOTHING) 1 oliQ A-tO : S TRt PE.D BODY' SHIRTS 1 J\E.ANS 1 • • VUNCARFES' \ ........... ... ,_ sEE n ALL AT THE New ••• Qtbapttr VII PLAZA SEVEN SHOPPING CENTER STOP 21 (ROUTE 7) TROY-SCHENECTADY ROAD LATH AM, N .. Y. 10% INTfWDUCTORY DISCOUNT WITH UNION 1.0~ TtiROUCGH OCTOBER OCTO BEl The \B~ Continued argument halt last ~ to do, he stop born we would settlemen argument governme needed t< was to ag and ther' Now that agreed to we mu withdraw idea h1 rejected One can year he pave the with gold Minh p osthu11 Peace Pri in the 1 justice. E the contr his blin intransig~ is as ex veiled de of Ameri Be~ Whate' we mus beyond\ is that in frustratio \belligere stay out world ut challenge unlimit( response. of \mas the one option w with no would 1( militar:iza foreign instabilit~ Gra may bt 1$ch c for 1 Thn Dl, Enjo· Cooked Com for Opp.

~one the the 'tin orm fhe OCTOBER 21 1969 PAGE 3 The Present Burdens nBug Out\ Mentality a competent military challenge to the existence of Israel'? Na~ser cannot last forever; we will surely face this pwblern in our lifetime. Would we dare encourage the Israelis to fight1 Would we help them? Would we seek a settlement with the terrorists of the Palestine Liberation Front? Or what if in a moment of frustration and insecurity China should invade India? Or if under the slog an of unity East Germany, !Jacked by Soviet arms, proposes to \unite\ Germany? Unlikely as such a development may be at this time, it is n<lt unreasonable to ask if tlte United States would be willing to assist West Germany accept a coalition government? negotiate with the would-be guerillas ..of the National Liberation Front for a United Germany? is right in insistmg tltat America's commitment is at stake. Waether we like it or not, this country S()me ten years ago assumed wltat from today's perspective aflpears to be a dearly mistaken responsibility in \Vi~tnam \niistaken\ primarily because it is a policy without sufficient domestic support. But unilateral witb.drawal wiU not undo th.e mistake! It may momentarily satisfy the radical critics, but, in addition to its consequences abroad, it will swely make our present divisi()n at home look like a demoflst:rati()n of unity. Remember Kor.ea and Joe McCarthy? Vietnamese to continue the war with American non-cambat assistance. This policy would leave north Vietnam with the option of either negotiating now or pursuing a war it cannot win and one which might last a long, long time. At the same time, it would \Vietnamize\ the war without abandoning the South Vietnamese. Should Nixon adopt this policy, and I think he will, he will have offered all an American President can possibly offer. by ASSt»CrATE PROFESSOR CH.ARLES GA TI Continued from page 2 argument about the hom bing halt last year? All we needed to do, he assured us, \\lu \to stop bombing the Notih and we would obtain a negotuted settlement. Remembet· b.is argument about a coalition government this year? All ~e needed to do, he assured us, was to agree to that princi[llle and there would be peac=e: Now that Nixon has in·effect agreed to it, McCarthy cl.ainls w e m u s t u n il at erally withdraw to obtain peace, ~It idea he most forcefully rejected only one yeru ago• One can assume that ne:xt year he would want tES f() pave the streets of Sajg<()ll with gold, arrange for lloChi M i n h t o r e c e i v .e posthumously the Noi:Jel Peace Prize, and then depart in the name of peace a.:Jl([ justice. His kind intenti()]1S t()> the contrary notwithsta!l.!ing,. his blindness to Nortller11: intransigance and aggre1lsi~~~o is as extreme as his tllinly- veiled delight at the prospect of American defeat. Beyond Vietnam Whatever our timet.2b le, we must begin t o !'00> k beyond Vietnam. My coacem is that in our present mood of frustration we will ernbra.ce \belligerent isolationism'' a:nd stay out of the affairs of t:he world unless and until t:he challenge required practica.lly . unlimited (i.e., nuclear} response. The likely prospect of \massive retaliation\' as: the one and only stra. tegic: option would leave us itt fact with no option at all. It would lead to the fu:rtber militarizat1on of Ame:tiecan. foreign policy, exacerbat~ instability in the world,. ud. Gra.ubart & Sons may run small ads, but the·y have big values. 1 $chenectady' s famous diamond shop, for three generations) 166 Joy St. Three ·Union Graduateos in Family. DIAMANTE'S J Enjoy Our Fine Horw1e , Cooked Italian Faod i1r1 ()ur Comfortable Dining RootTt Opp. The Brownell Gah on NoH Street Open Daily 10 to 1 A_M_ Sundays 5 P.M. to .1 P...M provide political ammunition for the domestic extremists of the Right to demand \victory over communism., and for the lean· wer-backward utopians of the Left to advocate unilateral disarmament. In short, the long·terni implications of defeat in Vietnam are more troubling than defeat itself. As we deny globalist aspirations for s0me sort of Pax Americana, are we to return to isolationism, belligerent or otherwise? What would we do in case of NEWEST While t!J.e issue at hand is Vietnam aad not Isreal, India, or German, President Nixon LIJ~CH 71S Albany Streei Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCI! - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE·OUT ORDERS - Union Stud~nt~ Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Sinc:e l ~21 ) Mon.·Thurs. 7 A.M.-2 AJA. Fri.-Sat. 7 A.M.-4 A;M, Sun. 9 A.M.·l A.M. Under present circumstances, then, a decent alternative is the one supported by Clark Clifford, Hubert Humphrey, and Senator Edward Kennedy. What they propose is that the United States agre-e to the withdrawal of combat troops but allow the South Only if we extricate ourselves from this war in such a fashion can we hope to create a new foreign policy for the United States, one that recognizes the limits of American power and avoids the twin dangers of the Am eric an temper: the nostalgia of isolationism and the illusion of omnipotence. ACME BARBER SHOP 509 Union Street EXPERIENCED BARBERS Nearest to Union College Students ...................................................................................... ~ : . I • • • • • • • • • . : I ere does the taste I • • • • 1 of great beer begin? 1 • 'I i You've got to get off to a good start to end up 1 • with a great beer. And barley malt is where beer I • • I begins. So we make all the malt for Genesee Beer : . : 1 in our own malt house. No other Brewery does 1 i this. That~s why no other Brewery can give you i 1 the same guarantee that the quality never 1 I changes ... that every glass gives you : i smooth€r body and more real beer flavor. I : I i Extra care, right from the start, makes • 1 Genesee a little more exciting than any I : other b€er. : • • I I • ·we'll do anything to bring you better beer : i GBCO, Rochester, N.Y. : • • • • : : ........................................................................................

PAGE 4 OCTOBER 21, 1969 Gridders Post Tenth Straight Win Over Engi,neers Continued from page 1 backs Larry Bloom and Joe IUrkup, bench-warmers until Saturday's contest. With Bloom sweeping around the ends and Kirkup busting up the weak R.PJ. middle, the Garnet offense drove downfield until Bloom burst over the goal-line from two yards out. Jim Sabella's conversion knotted the score at 7-7. Visions of a ten-game winning streak began to dance in the heads of Union fans as the Garnet went to the air to score their second touchdown, shortly after the Engineers had coughed up the football on a punt. As R.P.I. was now stacking up the middle to stop Kirkup and Bloom, Garnet quarterback Ken Pearce resorted to the pass, hitting wingback Rich Swan for a first-down at the Engineer thirty-four. The two hooked up again on a crucial third-down to the R.P.I. four, and Bloom lugged the ball around his left end for the TD. Sabella's placement put the Dutchmen in the driver's seat, 14-7. With the Engineers on the march again, the Garnet secondary came up with a big play to choke off the drive. With R.P.I. perched on the Union thirty-four, Dave Gray intercepted on the two yard-line, cutting in behind the Engineer receiver to snare Baron's long pass. The Dutchmen could not move, however, and punted weakly to their own thirty-seven. The Engineers again 'made threatening gestures, driving down to the Garnet four, but Baron was thrown for losses on two successive option plays. R.P.I. settled for a twenty-seven yard field goal' by Fairchild, to close the gap to 14-10. Gray .again saved the day for the Dutchmen a few moments later, intercepting · at his own eight after the Engineers had come right back, marching all the way down to the Garnet sixteen. Both defenses slugged it out in the second half, until Garnet line backer Russ Cicotti broke up another Engineer scoring bid, pouncing on an R.P .I. fumble at the Union thirty-five. Ken Pearce, who clicked on ten of seventeen attempts for 129 yards, immediately went to work, finding Pup Gould, Mike Kumpf, and Swan to the Engineer twenty-one. Kirkup capped off the drive Booters Drop Two By HANK LEVINE Union's soccer team met with a stroke of hard luck this weekend as the boaters lost to St. Lawrence Friday and Clarkson on Saturday. The Garnet squad went into the road trip with a promising 2-1·1 record and had hoped to improve on that mark. The Larries defeated the Union squad by a score of 7-1, scoring two goals in the first period, three in the second, and two in the fourth. Union's lone score came in the final quarter, when Bobby Dodd \headed\ a ball in for a score on a pass from Chris Swan. Bounces Back In Saturday's game, Union got off to a good start against Clarkson, with Kevin Coyne and Perre Roumain scoring goals. But Clarkson bounced back to win in the second half by a score of S-2. The Garnet record now stands at 2-3·1. Hobart is their next opponent in a home game slated for Wednesday afternoon. RPI Tramples '73 X-Country By GREG HAMLIN Engineers Crush Runners Union's freshman cross-country team lost its second straight meet of the young season Saturday, dropping a 19-41 decision to the RPI yearling's. Meet honors were won by Greg LaUry of RPI, who covered his 3.4 mile home course in 18:39.2. Huston Top Finisher By MARK SHUGOLL Jim Huston was again the top Garnet finisher, being timed in 19:09. The only other Dutchmen to break into the top ten where Mark Brenneman, Jan Goldberg, and Bill Jacobs. They garnered the 8th, 9th, and 1Oth positions, respectively. The Union Cross-Country team had their two-meet win skein abruptly and decisively snapped last Saturday, as the Garnet harriers were trounced by neighboring R.P .I., 18-40. Bill Pollack, last years New York State Champion, led the Engineers to their sixth victory in eight starts, as Union dropped its first d e c ision in three meets. Pollack covered the 4.68 mile Troy course in 24 minutes flat, 6.6 seconds off the course record. Moeckel Leads Harriers Bryant Moeckel, who finished first in the Garnet's two previous meets, finished a respectable third against a strong R.P.I. team, and again was Union's top fmisher. Moeckel's time was 25:37. Paul Forbes gained the seventh finishing spot for MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts done by Appoint• ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- pointments not necessary Sat. 515 UNION ST. 377-4010 Union, while Tim McCabe, Joe Burgess, and Pat Murphy finished ninth, tenth, and eleventh respectively. The Garnet distancemen will try to revert to their winning form on Thursday as they host Middlebury and H amilton in a triangular meet. Starting time is 2:30 at Alexander Field. The frosh will seek to even their record on Wednesday when they compete in a home triangular meet against Hamilton and Middlebury. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food I 125 BARRE.TT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Erljoy Sizzling Steoks and Chops Visit Our Cock toil Bar DOUGLAS Schenectady's Leading Men's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN f BATES f WALL • STREETER HUSH PUPPIES LUCEY f SEBAGO - MOCS MANSFIELD Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Next To The Underpass when he sliced into the endzone from one yard out. Sabella's conversion went wide, and the Garnet settled for a 20-10 lead. The Engineers countered with an eighty-five yard scoring drive, with Baron tallying on a rollout early in the fourth quarter, Fairchild's kick also failed, and with 14:29 to play in the contest, the Garnet let, 20-16. The Dutchmen upped that margin to 2 3-1 6, when Sabella booted the pigskin through the uprights from twenty-five yards out, after a Garnet drive fizzled on the Engineer ten. Trailing by seven points with three minutes left to go, the Engineers got rolling once again, this time from their own forty-five. Baron scrambled and passed his team down to the Garnet eigll.teen, clicking on three .straight aerials, and on fourth and one he hit split end Glenn Waltzak at the eleven yard-line. One minute remained in the game. The Garnet defenders then came up with one of their best clutch efforts of the season, as the pass rush dumped Baron for an eleven-yard loss, and Skip Lynch batted down a thiid-down pass after a three-yard gain on a screen by , . Engineer halfback Thad 1 Ostrowski. On fourth down, i the Engineers' last shot at the i · score, linebacker Fran ,1 Piscitelli decked Baron before I he hardly had time to set in the pocket. And that was that for 67th renewel of New York State's oldest college football rivalry. Frosh Gridders Roll, 58-0 i ! ' By DENNIS ALS()FROM The Garnet .freshmen football team evened their record at 1-1 Friday afternoon on Alexander Field, with an overwhelming and thoroughly convincing 58-0 romp over the freshmen of Hobart College. In a turnabout from their first game, the yearlings were able to put together sustained drives by expertly mixing a powerful and elusive running attack with a crisp passing game. An example of the yearlings' ground power was displayed by Swanco's 45 yard scoring jaunt on Union's third offensive series. Dave Rearic's 40-yard scoring pitch to Doug Jansen to open the scoring was just one example of the strong passing attack of the frosh. Defense Sparkles The quick, tenacious play of the yearling defenders kept Diamond Contessa \C\ 23 jewels. 14K solid gold. 4 diamonds. Faceted crystal. $120.00 the Statesmen in their own territory most of the afternoon. Coach Allison's s.econdary played an exceptional game, as did the line, which provided a strong rush and smothered the \ running efforts of the Hobart om~nse. The frosh will oppose Hu<lson Valley Community College on Alexander Field this Friday afternoon. KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott ~treet We Cater To Un1on Students l0°o Service Discount 428 STATE STREET SCHENECTAOV NEWVORK VOL 9~ SEN Re The coJ of spring published Thanksgi evaluatior Dick co-editors announce granted tl results of closing W! Over 7 the cour ACC ·wet At its Union A major re issues. Under the A.C.c make a c schedule. there v. afternom two testiJ These the est between Friday a now goe~ The students. tWO r administ and Dea Then in the D Nov. 19.

1969 three end their the rush r an Skip a a by Thad ( at the I l Fran II I I set in that New allege own the lison's an the strong the Field 'i c I N r;l I I Founded at L ·nwn College }'j ......... VOL. 99, NO. 13 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, OCTOBER 24, 1969 PRICE TWENTY GENTS McGovern, Aspaturian Here Next We,ek SEN. GEORGE McGOVERN Senator George McGovern, one of the more outspoken congressional critics of America's involvement in Vietnam and Dr. Vernon V. Aspaturian noted specialist in Soviet Foreign policy will address the college community in separate meetings next week. Elected m 1962. McGovern Spring Course Evaluation Ready By Thanksgiving By NEILS. KRAMER The computerized student evaluation of spring term 1968 courses will be published and distributed before the Thanksgiving vacation, the course evaluation's editors announced today. Dick Daniel and Neil Kramer, co-editors of the course evaluation, announced that the tax committee had granted them the funds to publish the results of the survey conducted in the closing weeks of the spring term. Large Reponse Over 73 percent of those enrolled in the course in which the evaluation ACC Requests Weekend Quiet At its meeting Wednesday night, the Union All-College Concil passed two major resolutions dealing with campus issues. Change Spring Exams Under the terms of the first motion, · the A.C.C. suggested that the Registrar make a change in the Spring final exam schedule. If this proposal is approved, there will be testing on Sunday afternoon, June 7, 1970, rather than two testing periods on Saturday. The second A.CC. proposal a·sked for the establishment of quiet hours between 2:00 AM and 7:00 AM on Friday and Saturday nights. This plan now goes to the Student Senate. Student Majority The A.C.C. is composed of six students, three faculty members, and two representatives of the administration, Dean Martin Lichterman and Dean of Students Edward Malloy. The next A:C.C. meeting will be held in the Davidson Lounge at 7: 15 PM on Nov. 19. materials were distributed participated. Over 17 5 recreation, lecture, laboratory and junior project sections will be included in the publication of the course evaluation results, Daniel and Kramer said. Full Evaluation The actual distribution of grades as given in all sections will be included in the course evaluation. A full evaluation will be included of every section that had a student response of 60 percent or more, as well as those sections with 50 to 59 percent response where more than ten stu dents participated in the evaluation. Chairmen Have Facts Complete copies of the course evaluation computerized print-out were given to the academic deans and the director of comprehensive education last week when they first became available, so that department chairmen might have access to the evaluation in order to use it in their own faculty evaluations. Dr. Ernest van den Haag, practicing psychoanalyst in New York City and professor of social philosophy at N.Y.U., will address the students and faculty of Union College on Monday, October 27, on \Welfare and the Fabric of Society,\ at 3:30 p.m. in the Old Chapel. Dr. van den Haag, who has appeared on national television as well as before civic and academic groups, adds an uncommon liveliness and wit to his discourses as he ranges from the proble1ns of individuals to the shortcomings of contemporary society. became the first Uemucral to wm a senatr po::>t in South Dak<•ta :,;ince 19:j6, His name was plact'd in nomination for the pre~i ilency at the Democratic national convention last year. Foreign Policy Crossroads Dr. Aspaturian is director of the Slavic and Soviet Languages and Area Center at Penn St<tte University. He will speak on \Soviet Foreign Policy at lhe Crossroads.\ Dr. Aspaturian . will evaluate the dilemmas the Russians face as they attempt to deal with the Chinese in the East and the Americans in the West. He will also describe the Soviet role in the cur r e n t V i e t name se negotiations. In the Senate, :\lcGovern is a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and the Committee on Interior a!ld Insular Affairs where he serves as Chairman of the subcommittee on - the Indian Affairs. St>nator :\lcGovern's new book, A Time of War/ A Time of Peace, app1~ars this fall. He will speak. in \lrmorial Chapel at I l: :30 :\.\1. on Ttlesday, October 2B. Disarmament Consultant Dr. Aspalurian has pre\ iously held a Roekefeller ~'t,llowship and severed as Consultant lo tht> RAND Corporation. ..'\rmy \V ar College. and l'.S. Disarmament Agemy. llis publi:,;hed works inelude The Soviet Union in the World Communist System and the Union Republics in Soviet Diplomacy. lie will spt'ak on Monday, October 27 at 4:80 P. \1. in SS ll5. Currently he holds a research professorship at Penn State, and has held visiting appointments at Columbia, John ijopki:ps, ll.C.L.A .. ;tnd in Ge1a.eva. Switzerland. Bingham. Remove Bunker By NEIL S. KRAMER A downstate Congressman interested in the I 970 Senate race sees the refusal to replace Ellsworth Bunker as the U.S. amabassador to South Vietnam \and get someone tough in there, as tl1e single greatest failure of Nixon's policy in. southeast Asia.\ Representative Jonathan Bing;ham, Democrat of the 23rd Congressional. District, comprised of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, spent 10 hours at Union College Tuesday, discussing military affairs, public finance, and New York State politics with students and faculty. · Senate Candidate Describing himself as an \active potential candidate\ for the Democratic nomination for the Senate in 1970, Rep. Bingham predicted that the nomination would be settled only after a hard-fought primary campaign. He doubted that former U.S. supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg \would be willing to go through a priinary scramble to get the nomination.\ Rep. Bingham also said he did not believe that Sen. Eugene McCarthy would run for · the seat now held by RepublicanCharles Goodell. No Sorensen The Bronx Democrat expects that Paul O'Dwyer and Nassau County · Executive Eugene Nickerson will be in the Senate Race, but doesn't think former Presidential assistant Theodore Sorensen, now a New York Lawyer, would be able to summon much up-state support in his bid for the Senate nomination. ln his third term in Congress, Rep. Bingham unseated Charles Buckley, notorious political boss of the Bornx in a hard-fought 1965 primary battle. For six years secretary to New York Governor Averell Harriman, he represented the United States at the United Nations as a minister on the trusteeship council and as an ambassador on the economic and social council.

PAGE 2 Agnew's Encore Members of the nation's college communities are rightly indignant over the remarks made last Sunday Hight hy Vice President Spiro T. Agnew about supporters of last week's Vietnam Moratorium. When he cited an \'effete corps of impudent snobs who characterize themselves as intellectuals,\ the Vice President was no doubt referring to the student supporters of the Moratorium. But the effect of Agnew':s remarks was a blanket denunciation .of all those who acUve'ly oppose the administrations V ietnarn policy. In effect, he included President Martin and the many distinguished faculty members at this and other Hniversities, as well as countless public and business officials. in his ill-fated attempt at mass character assassination. His attempt to cast slurs on the mascHlinity and loyalty @f the Moratorium supporters mHst certainly be worthy of the bleakest days of the McCarthy witch-hunts. Such remarks as those Agnew made contribute nothing to the public debate on Vietnam and only serve to exacerbate the deep divisions in the society already caused by the war. Agnew might have done the country a greater service if instead of making an emotional denunciation, empty of reason, and calcuLated to further divide the country, he had attempted to rationally refute and challenge the arguments of the anti-war protestors. It must be sorely evident by now that there is a wide gap between the pervasiveness and deptll of anti-war feeling in this country, and the Administration's perception of it. A recent Gallup Poll showing that 57% of the American people support Sen. Charles Goodell's proposal to legislate all troops out of Vietnam by the end of next year, belies any characterization of anti-war protestors as a small \elite corps.\ The persistence of this \perception gap\ and the President's tacit encouragement of these vile McCarth y-esque smears as a means of answering dissent portend ominously for the success of the administration's efforts to \bring us together.\ In this regard, the administration is its own worst enemy. BLITHER Submissions are now being accepted for The Idol. Material should be left in the mailbox at the Student Activities Office. Deadline for the next issue is October 31. There will be a most important meeting at 4:30 on Wednesday, October 29, in SS 016 for all those who have expressed interest in the Big Brother program. Little brothers will be assigned at this time. Any sophomores interested in the two year AFROTC program should stop in at Hoadley House between now and November 15 for further information. State University Theater's opening production at SUNY's Performing Arts Center will be Peter Schaeffer's \Royal Hunt of the Sun,\ a Broadway hit of a few seasons ago. The play will open Wednesday, October 29 and will run for five days. Curtain time is 8:30 P.M. except for Sunday, November 2, whenthere will be a 2 P.M. matinee. Tickets are available at the box office in the Performing Arts Center, or they;· may be reserved by cal'ling the box office between 11 A.M. and 4 P.M. Monday through Friday. .. Four local technical societies will co-host a conference at Union College on December 4 and 5. The subject of the conference will be \Government Regulations and Engineering For Improved Environment.\ The Albany Section of A.S.C.Q., the Hudson-Mohawk section of A.S.M.E., the Schenectady section of I.E.E.E., and the Central N.Y .-St. Lawrence District of A.S.T.M. have announced that students will be admitted to the conference free. The Univac company is sponsoring a College Copywriting Contest in which students are to submit recruiting ads based on a theme wllich can be developed into a campaign. Entries must be postmarked by November 10, and received by Saturday November 15. Write Univac College Copywriting Contest, P.O. Box 4050, St. Paul, Minn. 55116, for contest rules. The Union College Karate C I ub is reconvening this month. The fee is $35 for 12 weeks and classes are open to all students. Interested? Contact Wayne Row, 259 Davidson, 372·9716. OCTOBER 24, 1969 OCTOBER 24, 1969 Cmnpus Ponders McCartney When Is A Chle Not A Cloo? not LaGuardia's hand hut rather that ·Of Beria, head of the Soviet Secret Police. In the fifties anyhow, all signs point to no good. Afficianado's and conspiracy spotters tell us that the whole funeral scene, the oboe in Paul's hand, the fact he is not facing the camera on the back of the album and some of the lyrics all point to either his impending death or his already lamentable demise. look-alike held sway but it 11 ·- seems music listeners hear the Critical Response To Inconsistency By BILL OUZER bv EUGENE KOKOT Until around last Friday, Paul McCartney was merely a multi-millionaire and an idol of a good proportion of the youth in the English speaking world. During that week, aBd nobody knows exactly how or why, this poor gentleman became a legend of the hour - the subject of a seafch as dazzling in its proportion as the fact that his pursuers chased him through record album covers, photos and lyrics to songs played backward and forward. Paul LaBour, recently immortalized staffer for the Michigan Daily, spawned the tale in a copyrighted article. From here, by means of the crowds for Moratorium day and college newspapers, the phenomena spread. Locally, the stalwart souls at WRUC broke all existing records for conjecture intriguing an unprecedented number of listeners here and at their fiefdom in Saratoga Springs. Phil Krasnowski, '71 , first preached the gospel to the spell bound masses on his Monday night show. According to our fdends at WRUC and also those who run the station, lines were buzzing and 30 people trekked through the appropriate Schenectady drizzle to serve as comforters, mourners, and pall bearers at the funeral in abstentia. The Kras thesis, and the · most common version of the story, is that clues point to the death of Paul at age 28. Since Sgt. Peppers the group has riddled their work with hints and clues of the impending death. Of course, Fiorello LaGuardia is holding a hex sign over Paul's head indicating he had four years to go. Maybe however, that is Sleuths in the area tried to get through to London last Wednesday at midnight hoping to hear the legendary tape-recording which, according to vario.us sources came from a number so cleverly concealed on Magical Mystery Tour it could be anything you wanted it to be and led you to either, \Paul is Dead,\ \You're on the right track,\ or \the answer lies not in Britain.\ At a more reasonable hour those turned on to the perplexing perils of Paul got in touch with·Apple records in San Francisco. The big man was in London and they spoke to his secretary, a charming and cryptic lady who said that the official Apple position was one of complete denial but added in confidential aside that the denial perhaps was garbage. The New York Times entered the act with a call to Apple HQ in London and got the word that the legend was \a load of old rubbish.\ Diehards took the article, held it up to the light, read it backwards and came away frustrated there only solace the fact that the picture included was four years old. Theories and counter theories grew, entered favor and left - discredited. For a while the conjecture that Paul died in an accident in 1 966 and was replaced by a same voice and the same lyric bass of the days before the l\ rumor. Still evidence seemed much more than circumstantial as the clouble Beatles album revealed pictures of Paul with his eyes closed,juxtaposed to the mysteriously dead Brian Epstein and the significant number 28 figuring heavily in the numerology of the layout. Songs in the Double ., · Album, especia]y Revolution No. 9, tell of l()SS, mourning, and disjointed emotion. When played backward the title is 11 · 1 heard to be - \turn me on dead man.\ As this is preceded by a bass and some 11 dirge-like piano music there are those who conclude the dead man is Paul and that his death and clues they plant to \'' it inspir~ the album. Most of the numerous clues, some specious but ·: many intrig~ing, are public knowledge. WRUC will respond to enormous listener interest with a special a week ' 1 1 from Sunday. At that time all the facts will he in and maybe the mustery will be solved, at any rate - the final verdict will surely be a theme of the show. I On this end a cadre of ~·. effete snobs who call themselves newspapermen are working on a pet theory of ,• ~.· their own and hope to have As a member of the sttJdent body who has been a pupil of Mr. Gati's, I feel compelled to respond to his perhaps understandable but inc·onsistently argued statement in Concordiensis. I say \perhaps understandable\ because his position on legalist-moralist American international politics is highly relevant to Vietnam, but his method of argumentation is at best inconsistent and his conclusions are highly controversial. Mr. Gati is not the first scholar to recognize that America has acted in response to the balance of power in Asia as opposed to the transgression of democratic principles of self-deter- mination. Among others, the major authors of the \realist school\ of balance of power politics, namely Hans Morgenthau and George Kennan, have so stated their respective analyses of American foreign policy in Vietnam. Both, however, have come to see that it is not in the national interest to wage war on a grand scale in Vietnam. In fact they do not see America's failure in Vietnam as a failure to wage successful \limited war,\ but as a flagrant miscalculation of our national interest. all the details ready for next week. A hint - we think a I dead man is involved but not ,, .. Mr. Gati may not disagree Paul, perhaps someone Paul with these points, but I feel knew wh()se name and he overstates the degree of interests appear to be our commitment to wage this influential in the Beatie style \ 1 . war, made as he says ten and are woven into the songs years ago. As former and accompanying regalia. A. . ambassador Reischauer points confession - it is very far . , 1 ~. out in his book Beyond fetched. Vietnam, the American A columnist for the Village commitment, if any, began Voice has provided the most prior to 1954 when the U.S. interesting after thought to ., ~ was financing 80% of the TOM PAXTON STARS OFF WEEKEND: NOV. 1 date, «Jf Paul McCartney is, French struggle against the indeed, alive it will be very Vietminh. As I read him, Mr. hard for him to prove he is ,, Gati takes the legitimacy of not an imposter.\ this commitment for granted. FOR SALE 1968 AMX Air Conditioning, Radio. Excellent Condition. Call 393-6822 Tony Bark Pennel ·Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of VanVranken Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall - One Block from the Campus 25 Pork Place Schenectady, N.Y. THE PEANUT STORE ~Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED ·PEANUTS and Nutn1eats from all over the world. 4()6 SlATE ST. It seems clear to me that \l - the reason why three , Presidential administrations r \ have couched our policy in !:U 1 terms of \upholding the democratic principle'. is because they foresaw the possibilty of a strong negative t' · •. reaction if they attempted to I posit the reasons for participation in terms of its being vital to our national interest. They anticipated that people would more readily question that ;::::::::;:;:;::::;:=:;:=;:;::;:;;;:;~~;:;;;=:;;:;:;:;;;~=:::;-' . \vitalness\ before becoming ZELL~JER'S NORGE aroused enough to question a LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. Cat :HoHie Street) DR¥ CLEANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ___________ $2.00 12 Lb.----------- .30 4lb. Min.-------- $1.00 20 lb.·-·---·--·- .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. __ - _. __ ... - .50 10 Min._------- __ .. 1'0 Jllpel'\ Mon.-Fri. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M.· Sat. 8 A..M. to 5 P.M. Closed Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY ClEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED ,, . •) ,, ., .. high sounding moral rationale. Finally, however, in spite of the foresight of the presidents, the time has come to challenge even the moral commitment for the majority of the usually passive population. My final criticisms stem from the aspersions cast by J Mr. Gati upon Mssrs. L-----~----------------------~------------~ Fulbright and McCarthy. Instead of noting in his article (as he has done in class} that the actions of the Fulbright Committee are unprecedent- ed, Mr. Gati chose to dedde the actions af this man in terms of his failure in another discipline, very much removed from the one in question. On McCarthy, if for no other reason than he forced the Johnson mistake-prone policy out of office, Mr. Gati should be a bit less polemic and more selective in his criticism.. He should not assail McCarthy for revising his perspective on the war from no bombing to no fighting. In one of the opening sentences Mr. Gati posits as a foundation for the article that \my perspective on the war has changed as has everyone else's.\ Two years ago Mr. Gati, and I dare say Mr. Clifford, would not have been partisans of the proposals to which both men now subscribe. Mr. Gati finishes with a proposal for Vietnamization of the war. Yet I see little connection that this conclusion has to the body of his article. He has also failed to explain why his views acted to discourage his participation in the Moratorium. There was nc one theme of withdrawal officially attached to the events of the day thougll many people felt oriented tc that opinion. SomE participated out of respec1 for the dead, others for thE purpose of debate. Most wen of a clearly non-radica disposition. CIRCLET 1!500 ALSO $150 TO 1975 ~P-s.ake· OIAMONO RINGS

PAGE 4 OCTOBER 24, 1969 Improved Boot Triumphs; Hustling ,Oneonta Tops '73 S • • IT • urpnstng _uarners By HANK LEVINE and MIKE HUMBER After dropping two stra-ignt games last week to St. Lawrence and Clarkson, the Union soccer team bounced back Wednesday to defeat Hobart by a score of 3-1. The Garnet displayed an even, balanced attack, scoring one goal in each of the first three periods. Chris Swan opened up the scoring in the first quarter with a goal off a free kick outside the penalty area. Pierre Roumain made the score 2-0 and Paul Martini capped the effort with a goal in the third period. Larry MuHman, Kevin Coyne, and Harold Wheeler were also cited for their outstanding play. Martini is a freshman, playing in his first varsity contest. The Garnet record now stands at a healthy 3-3-1 with four games remaining: R.P.l., their toughest opponent, Colgate, Rochester, and Hartford. Engineers Loom Tough The squad faces R.P.l. at II :00 Saturday at the Engineers' field in a game which sees Union as the definite underdog. R.P.I., ranked number two in the state, has a strong line and a good goalie, but Coach Brown remains somewhat optimistic: \The boys are up for it...team cunfidence is high ... we know their personnel.\ The Garnet freshmen soccer team suffered its first defeat Tuesday at the hands of Oneonta State, fumbling away a 5-3 decision. The yearlings were plagued by their own over-confidence. and were beaten by a team that showed greater hustle ami desire. Miscues Plague Yearlings Union took a quick lead when Bob Bernhardt, the team's top scorer. booted home a shot after taking a cross-field pass from Andy Suter. Oneonta tied the score late in the first quarter. taking advantage of one of the Garnet's numerous errors to make the score 2-1. The Garnet's Paul Martine knocked .in a long shot just before the half ended to knot the score at 2-2. Oneonta broke the deadlock with three minutes left in the third quarter, scoring on a breakaway. After a team me~ting on the sidelines, the Garnet yearlings took the field and 25 seconds later tallied on a Martine drive. Finally playing as if they wanted to win the game, the fro_sh looked ready to go on to victory. Unfortunately, the Garnet defense lapsed agajn, allowing Oneonta two quick scores and giving them the game in the process. By MARK SHUGOLL The Cross Country teams from Hamilton and Middlebury became Unio11 College's third and fourth victims of the seaso11 yesterday, as the Garnet harriers captured a triangular meet to raise their record to 4-1 . The composite score read Union 39, Hamilton 42, Middlebury 43. In the three individual meets, Union was victorious over Hamilton, 27-30, and Middlebury by the identical score of 27-30, while Hamilton edged the Vermonters 27-28. Good Depth The story of the Garnet's success basically was depth. Hamilton's Tom Carr finished first in the meet, with Middlebury runners second am.d third. Union's top finisher once again was Bryant Moeckel, who finished fourth. Paul Forbes captured sixth place, Tim Me Cain eighth, and Freshman Jim Huston, running his first varsity race, tenth. Joe Burgess pciked up th.e eleventh place points, and Dave Rich ran thirteenth. Carr's winning time of 29:27 set a new Union course record, despite a 35 degree temperature and high wind:s. Moeckel covered the trying 5.46 mile course in 30:24, his best time ever. With one triangular meet Wesleyan Downs Ruggers By L.MARK SWEENEY The Union College Rugby Club lost its first game of the season last Saturday, dropping closely contested match to Wesleyan by a l0-3 score. Wesleyan was hungry for a victory after suffering a 25-0 pasting at the hands of Harvard. Their win here. however. was ,not an easy one. Frosh Thinclads Crush Darrow Union's freshman cross-country team ran to its first victory Wednesday, romping over a hapless Darrow squad 15-47. Jim Huston, unperturbed by the intermittent rain and slett, led all the way in the 3.6 mile race. Behind Huston were five more Garnet runners-- Bill Jacobs, Jan Goldberg, Mark Burdelle, Greg Hamlin, and Ed Rossi, respectively. Also running well was Stan Jackson, who garnered the 1Oth position. Next Wednesday the Dutchmen yearlings will encounter Oneonta an'd ·Trinity at home in a triangular fneet \ ·· Wesleyan scored first, pushing over a try for three points and adding a conversion kick for an extra two, with ten minutes remaining in the first haff. Union came back in the second half, with Hank Wessman running the ball in from the ten-yard line. Garry Lynch's conversion attempt went wide, however, making the score 5-3, Wesleyan. Wesleyan Pulls Ahead Wesleyan topped off the afternoon's scoring late in the game, when one of their players fell on a blocked kick in the end zone. The conversion was good, upping the Wesleyan margin to I 0-3. Fine defensive play by the Wesleyan squad prevented any further Garnet scoring. The Garnet ruggers played a surprisingly good game on saturday, despite the fact that they were competing against a seasoned team_ Many of the players had never played in a formal match, but in Saturday's game they demonstrated strength, durability, and an eagerness to win. The ruggers will see action again tomorrow, when they host a strong club from Albany Law School on Library Field at 12:00 noon. KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street Part Time Help · Sales .... _ .. News . _ ..... Announcers WSNY/1240 393-3622 Win Two still rema11ung on the schedule, the Union cross country season must be already considered a big success. Without a senior on the entire team, the harriers are guaranteed a winning season after posting a dismal 1-4 slate last year. Moeckel, only a sophmore, has beenl Union's leading finisher in all five meets, capturing the top spot twice. Moeckel must be considere·d one of the stmnger runners in the state. The Garnet are lookiHg for the chance to up their record to 6-1 at the expense of Trinity and Oneonta. who vjsit Union for a triaHgular meet on October 29. The harriers close their season by taking part in the New York state Championships at Harpur College on the first of November. ,, · Grid Statistics 0 . ' . RUSHING: Player Rich Jaszczak, FB Joe Kirkup, FB Larry Sykes, HB Larry Bloom, HB Rich Swan, HB Dan Kerkhoff, QB Ken Pearce, QB Union Totals Opp. Totals PASSING: Rushes 64 52 69 23 5 9 16 23.8 247 Yds. Gd. 271 188 221 92 24 7 9 812 983 Yds. Loss Net -7 264 -3 185 -42 179 -8 84 0 24 -50 -43 ·104 -95 -214 598 -132 85 I Ave. 'IDs 4.1 2 3.6 I 2.6 3 3.7 2 4.8 0 -4.8 0 -5.9 0 2.5 8 3.4 l2 Player Att. Comp. Yds. Had Int. TDs Conv. Ken Pearce, QB 138 59 642 5 5 Dan Kerkhoff, QB IS 2 24 2 0 Union Totals 153 61 666 7 5 Opp. Totals 104 52 499 7 2 RECEIVING: Player Caught Yds. Gd. TDs Rich Swan, HB 21 313 5 Mike Kumpf, E 19 156 0 Dan Gould, E 11 138 0 Larry Sykes, HB 5 20 0 Mike Bloom, HB 2 16 0 Joe Kirkup, FB 2 15 0 Jim Sabella, K 8 0 Union Totals 61 666 4p Opp. Totals 52 499 2 DOUGlAS Schenectady's Leading Men's ShoeS tore BOSTONIAN HUSH PUPPIES BATES WALL- STREETER LUCEY ~ SEBAGO· MOCS MANSFIElD Phone FR 4-8577 0 0 0 Conv. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 I 319 State Street Schenectady, N. y_ Next To The Underpass 6 For three Generations.' Those Who Kn.ow ••. Have been 'ecommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ~'3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY SL FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY • t) r .. •.1 ,, ., ., , . VOL! Ch Ex Mr_ former r Union, d home Sa was 64 Y• A me staff fror Wilde ha· both edu Born Ireland, 2 years 1 Union in the ye p a rticip~ Fencer's Fencing. Bachelor Library head depart me Luzern Luzerne, Later h secondar 1938 bE of BuJ School. Coec ·p.rovoke many p« next ye school's who is c the c< beginnir Mrs. Troy, assistant said th taking approa change.' ··we changE planned Mrs. counsel< • College the Ge1 Waterfo what th until th• But the POI coeds ' the libe \I'd be tweet science1 \I don 50-50 they're the sciE A lot :o go-ing science: Mrs. I ,.

1969 the tate. g for cord ~ of who ~lar The n by fork . at st of 'TDs 2 1 3 2 0 0 0 8 12 IV. . R'\1 Founded at Union ;College 1877 VOL~,N0.14 SCHEI\IECTADY, NEW YORK,OCTOBER 28, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Charles Wilde, '27; Ex-Librarian; Dies Foreign Policy Expert Reds More Hostile? Mr. Charles F. Wilde, Playwright By NEIL S. KRAMER former reference librarian at During the ·thirties he Union, died suddenly at his wrote scripts for various radio home Saturday evening. He shows, the most notable of was 64 years old. which were \Mr. and Mrs. A member of the library North\ \Grand Hotel\ and staff from 1960 to 1969, Mr. \First Nighter\. He also Wilde had been involved with wrote several children's plays. both education and literature. In 1937 he received his Born in 1904 in Armagh, Master of Arts degree from The late Mr. Charles Wilde, Reference Librarian_. ''We overcommitted ourselves in our involvement in Vietnam; now we may overcommit ourselves in our disinvolvement...And the first victim of this policy may well be Israle.\ Dr. Vernon V. Aspaturian, director of the Slavic and Soviet Languages Center at Penn State University, Ireland, he came to America New York State College for 2 years later. Graduated from Teachers at Albany, and Union in 1927,jt was noted in subject of his thesis was FolkA:rtist Paxton the yearbook that he \Ghost Legends of Mohawk participated in both the Valley.\ Fencer's Club and Interclass In 1951 Mr. Wilde became Fencing. He received his principal of Burnt Hill's lsOnOffWeekend Bachelor of Science degree in Senior High School. He 13y LOUIS SNITKOFF ,, .,~ \ Library Science and became remained there until 1960 head of the English when he came to Union. department and librarian of Assistant reference librarian, Luzerne High School, he was in charge of the Luzerne, New York, in 19 29. inter-library loan service. Later he taught at several A private funeral service secondary schools and in will be held at Baxter's 1938 became Vice Principal Funeral Home. He is survived The folk music movement in America has been characterized by a ntunber of young writers and singers, but few excel as both sjngers and songwriters. Tom Paxton, one of these few, will appear in Memorial Cha·p el on Saturday, November 1, at 8:30p.m. of Burnt Hill's Central by a sister, Mrs. Kenneth ·: f New Girls' ;J;;;;;;eNo c~:,;g~\l '\ Coeducation may not admissions office had \talked publicized by post-ers and , 'i~-provoke as much change as with girls interested in Union brochures sent tlul)tugh the ' many people .think at Union because it has a good sciences t r ad i tiona! high -sch<Jol next year, according to the and engineering program as mailing list. Mrs. Ee am said. school's first woman dean well as liberal arts. This might She said that a r~cruiting • 1~ who is coordinating plans for be an attraction for girls,\ she team from Union, RPI, and the coeducation program said. Skidmore, tr~veling beginning next year. Mrs. Beam said that throughout the couJitry, also Mrs. Sl1eila Jayne Beam of admissions requirements for is advertising the change. 11 ' Troy, recently appointed coeds will be the same as for \We're not anticipating assistant dean of students, men, including high scores on any one big preble m,\ she said the administration is both the verbal and said. \We're just plallningand 1 • taking \'a wait-and-see mathematic sections of the making sure everything comes approach to curriculum co 11 e g e entrance off all right.\ change.\ examinations. Two girls Good Chan_ce~ \'We don't have any already have been admitted ·1 1 ·' changes in curriculum toward a goal of 100 · planned for next year,\ said freshmen and 20 transfer ~ Mrs. Beam, formerly a students for next year. , .. · •. counselor at Russell Sage Mrs. Beam said that she College and an employee of expects \a percentage of the General Electric Co. in black coeds\ from the · Waterford. \We won't know college's Upward Bound A-·~ what the coeds' interests are program for disadvantaged until they get here.\ students. She siad the college Mixed Centers hopes to level off at 400 But she took issue with coeds and a total student ' • the popular notion that the body of under 2,000 within I. ,j \~ , 'J \ .-· -. ·\.··) ·. ' .. ~' . ,. ,' , .. ,. ~~ ' 0 • ':1 ~ \·~· ·~ t. J 'if '.\ ... •· ... ..,. •I !) '1 :,. J' coeds will focus strictly on the next five years. the liberal arts program here. Richmond Converted \I'd like to see it mix.e(l Richmond House on the between the liberal arts and northwest corner of the sciences, frankly,\ she siad. campus will be converted \I don't think it will be a over the summer to a 50-50 split, but I think dormintory for women, Mrs. they're going to get girls in Beam said. :'We . want the the sciences and engineering. coeds to live on campus, and A _lot :of women today are not just be commuters,\ she goin!l in to the computer said . sciences, for instance.'' The college's switch to Mrs. Beam said that the coeducation is being Mrs. Beam sa_id that although Union pr<lb ably will receive stiff compeiit:ion from other small private liberal arts colleges, \I think ouc chances are good of getti.ng; enough girls.\ Mrs. Beam said that she hopes to get a -potential sampling of coed opinion of Union during a \C o~duca tion Day\ November I l when some 5() girls from high schools in Schenectady and Saratoga counties 'ii,l/ill visit the campus. The girls will \have a chance tQ look at U11ion'\ by visiting classes in session and campus facilities, Mrs. Beam said. She added that she will meet with the girls.a. t the end of the day's activitiooes to get their impressions of the college. talent and his rich, melodious voice have brought him national and international acclaim. His songs, written with his childhood in Oklahoma as a background, have been recorded by folk music artists here and abroad. Paxton is a graduate of the University of Oklahoma Drama School, and it was there that he was first introduced to folk music. After college, Paxton entered the Army and was stationed at Fort Dix, New Jersey, just a few hours away from Greenwich Village. In frequent visits to New York, he me.t many young people who were involved in folk music, and he began to write songs. When he left the Army in 1960, he decided to stay in New York and d~vote his time to writing and singing. Support from Seeger Soon afterward, the name of Tom Paxton was well known in folk music circles. His first popular song, \Ramblin' Boy,\ was later recorded by Pete Seeger. He received enthusiastic support from Seeger and from Milt Okun, a publisher who now works with Peter, Paul and Mary, among many other folk artists. In the past year, Paxton has performed at clubs and colleges throughout the country, at the Newport Folk Festival, and has made concert tours of England and Scotland. A recent article in the New York Times, ranked him among the most talented contemporary folk artists. \Paxton has found a winning approach toward being an entertainer ... that follows a direct tradition from Woody Guthrie through Pete Seeger,\ the article said. explained \Soviet foreign policy at the Crossroads\ yesterday afternoon to a co liege audience of ]()0 students and faculty. More Aggressive Stance Because the United States will probably be reluctant to intervene in the Middle East on behalf of Israel or Lebanon because of the adverse effects of the Vietnam war on public opinion here, Dr. Aspaturian suggested that the Soviet Union may take a more aggressive posture in world affairs. The Soviet leadership feels that international stability is. counter-revolutionary and diminishes their position in the eyes of Third World to that of a \tired revolutionary power willing to settle down as number two.\ Dr. Aspaturian described a complex of militarists, heavy industrialists, and bureaucrats from the Stalin regime who are anxious for conflicts, short of mononuclear war, to develop in the world. Russian Communist party First Secretary Leonid Brezhnev represents this faction. Resolve Tension The Soviets must resolve the tension between the goal of being a world power, which in terms means being as imperialist as the United States, that of remaining the leader of a revolutionary ideological movement, Dr. Aspaturian said. The effect of this tensio11 was evident in the August 1968 invasion of Czechsloavokia, which was becoming too friendly witl1 West Germany and too liberal in outlook to suit the Soviets. \The political side of the intervention was a complete fiasco,\ the Russians \are still looking for the people wh1> were S\Jpposed to have invited them\ into Czechoslavokia, he said. Dr. Aspaturian marked th~ invasion of Czechoslavakia as the crossroads of Soviet Foreign policy, and maintained that the Soviet leadership is still as divided as it was over the decision to intervene. He views the Brehznev-Kosygin regime as \transitional\ and estimates that they will be removed within five years. The Soviet leadership has such disagreement over what to do about Czechoslavakia Continued on p([.ge 3

PAGE2 I wclA lr.l .I; k~ n #.\k a H ~~ 'f!tft!t.r snobs' who ~ad~t rei pos~i !.I!. \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make vi o 1 en t r e vo 1 u t i o n i n e vi t a b l e. \ Published Tuesday and Friday during the Union College academic year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Project by Upward Bound students in residence at Union College, National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Serviae, Ina., College Publishers Representative. 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 416·418 Fifth Ave., Troy, 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a copy; $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief HENRY FEIN .......................................... Managing Editor CARL S. GOLDSAND and JEFF :BIRN Business Managers WILLIAM OUZER .................................. Executive Editor PETER J. WEINGOLD ............................... Campus Editor RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR ......... Contributing Editor BILL HOLLERAN ........................................ Sports Editor JODY SASLOW ................................... .Photogmphy Editor PAUL ANDREWS ....................................... Editor-at-large STAFF- Robert A. Levine, .Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff. Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Garrigan SPORTS STAFF- Mark Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss, Broce Garber, Hank Levine ,. ~OCTOBER 28,1969 OCTO BE . . . Despite AU 1'he War Goes On As Gati Replres To Kokot R~ L~ Profes and 29 students. semester the colle Educatio1 departing week of To the Editor I was pleased to read Mr. Kokot's critique of my article in Concordiensis. If his intelligent views are indeed typical of critical dissent on Vietnam, my concern about the specter of isolationism was exaggerated. Let me make only two comments. First: I full realize that most members of the academic community' as well as nearly all of my friends and their wives, keep Senator McCarthy in high regard for integrity and courage, and I also know that my view of him is \controversial.\ Yet a man who perceives himself, and seeks to be perceived by others, for his unquestioned liberal stance surely invites doubt when he (a) supports Senator Long of Louisiana, instead of Senator Kennedy, for Senate Whip, (b) dismisses the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia as irrelevant, and (c) spoils Humphrey's chances of getting elected. Such policies and attitudes, together with his hardly impressive voting record, are very germane indeed to an understanding of his puzzling and inconsistent ploitical personality. On Vietnam, he expected and promised negotiations leading to peace if we stopped bombing ( 1968); if we agreed to. the formation of a coalition government (early 1969); if we simply withdrew (now). He has been proven wrong in the first two instances, and I think he is wrong now. Second: Mr. Kokot may be correct in pointing out that Clifford, Muskie, Humphrey, or others have been wrong, too. But, in all fairness, the main purpose of my article was to focus on the more radical critics and their responsibility for arousing false expectations. Yes, I am critical of McCarthy, even though I certainly prefer him to Agnew. I am also critical of KING'S ATL'ANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street We Cater To Union Students l0°o Service Discount Fulbright, even though I surely prefer him to Goldwater; and of Lindsay, even though I undoubledly prefer him to Marchi. As a matter of fact, l have profound contempt for Mailer who has deprived New York City from the services of a potentially great mayor (Badillo)--and yet I had much respect for Mailer's ideas. For I judge a man by the concrete consequences of his actions rather than by the \liberal\ label he attaches to himself. If this disqualified me as a liberal, let it be. The crucial point is that those of us who belong to that celebrated liberal mainstream and w:ho are tuned more or less to the same political wavelength have and enormous responsibility to be critical of our own kinds. For America liberalism today faces a test comparable to that of 1948. The choice then was between the f e 11 ow- t rave lli n g • utopianism of Henry Wallace and pragmatic progressivism of Harry Truman. Today's ,, · liberal choice is between Me Carthy and the Muskie- Humphrey-Kennedy wing of the Democratic Party. As I see it, the concrete political consequence of embraicing McCarthy and what he advocates is to allow the political initiative to slip to the other side··to an Agnew, b Strom Thurmond, or, God forbid, George Wallace. . Prof. Charles Gati Department of Political Science Klemm Publishes ,, German Textbook' To the Editor The Sensen-Verlag of Vienna, Austria, has published a new textbook for intermediate students of German written by Prof. Frederick A. Klemm, Chairman of the Department of Modern Languages at Union College. The book, \Graf Rumford, Amerikanischer Weltbdurger\ (Coubnt Rumhford,fAmerican Citizen of the .. , Worl ), IS a iagrap y o Benjamin Thompson (1753-1814), Count Rumford. Elected in London A physicist and social scientist, Rumford IS remembered today as the founder of the Royal . Institution of Great Britain and as the donor of the Rumford Professorship of Physics at Harvard. preparati1 Interna Brattlebo The fl: an ord departun Kennedy hours. was aggr: delay in of the t replact generally most of hours precedinl After departmc airborne hours lat a.m., on hotel cance \Exp' organiza1 our stay our first cuisine : Soc Gro1 The Commi or gani• College. service wheneve Last yc respor irnmedia deliver people helping work is with De par , . Services. needs overburc cannot l Prof. Klemm collected material for the biography in Munich, London, and Boston while he was on sabbatical 1 \ that t leave from Union. In London he was elected to ' membership in the Royal Institution. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St,..et Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. ··l$chenectady's famous diamond shop, for three generations) 166 Joy St. Three Union Graduates In Family. FOR SALE 1968 AMI Air Conditioning, Radio. Excellent Condition. Call 393-6822 Tony Berk MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP All Haircuts don~ by Appoint- ment from Tues. thru Fri. Ap- · pointments not necessary Sot. 515 UNION ST. 377-4010 J ' Commit A def therfore of serv Commit activitie Sclienec Educati1 inner ci much o if the Comm motivat1 This in itself s h 0 u l educati< aware conditic how to many people capaciti brother] and efl people-l pot en experie1 growth rendere' Inter •' • contact Ken Ja 393026 377006

OCTOBER 28, 1969 PAGE3 Report From Angers .. Frtmee: Lam A'r':~~REE~.I:rogram OFF Weekend Dates: us of Professor Alan Roberts and 29 UnioH College students are spending the fall semester in France as part of a test 1948. ,1 I. the college's Comprehensive Education Program. Before departing, the group had one week of intensive language preparation at the School for International Training, Brattleboro, Vermont. • ,, uskie- ng of As I he the to The flight over was a bit of an ordeal. The original departure was delayed at Kennedy for more than three \ hours. This inconvenience - was aggravated by a 19 hour delay in Iceland because one of the engines had to be t replaced. Morale was generally good, considering most of us h.ad only four • , . hours sle.ep during the \ God preceding two days. sGati Science After two attempted departmes, we were finally airborne and landed five hours later in Brussels at 3:30 a.m., only to find that our hotel reservations were '·canceled by the \Experiment the __.., organization which arranged 1·· • F W h d 1 our stay m ranee. e a k I. our first taste of continental cuisine at 6:30 a.m.--bread, Social Relief Group Grows the The Social Relief Committee is a student organization at Union College. Its sole purpose is service to people in need whenever the needs arise. Last year the Committee of the I r e s p o n d e d to s h or t, \ • immediate needs, such as delivering food, driving IS people to the hospital, helping out in jail, etc. This work is done in conjunction with the Schenectady Department of Social Royal , , . Services. Whenever immediate the in batical to ' needs arise that the overburdened social workers cannot handle, they are aware that they can call the Committee and get assistance. A definite commitment, therfore involyed in this. type of service. This year the Committee is expanding its activities to work with the Schenectady Department of Education in some of the 6 inner city schools. This and much other work is possible if the members of the Committee are highly motivated. This type of work is good in itself. Yet, as students, we should consider its educational value, becoming aware of the complex conditions that exist, learning how to act and deal with , , many different kinds of people, growing in the capacities of service and brotherly love, sharing time and effort with concerned people-all these are part of a Appoint- Fri. Ap- · · potentially explosive experience both in terms of growth and practical service rendered. Sot. }i \, ~; '!' !, Interested students may •' 1 • contact Hank Wessmann or Ken Jacoby, 110 Davidson, 39302622, or Ken Schroeder, 3770067. jam, and coffee. Jack Liu Living with a family has being Nationalist Chinese, proved beneficial. It's really was almost refused entry an effective means of gaining because he hadn't arranged insight into French life. All of the proper visas. This us have neen well integrated problem settled (I think Jack into the family unit and sneaked in), we pushed on for actively participate. However, Paris, where the group broke the student maintains a up to go to their respective relative amount of freedon cities--Caen, Angers, and and can\discover\ France on Besancon. his own. The' most interesting We arrived in Angers at and of course the enjoyable 4:30p.m., looking like a tribe method of discovery is travel. of wandering Bedouins who Thus far, the program has had just emerged from two been a great success thanks to years in the desert. After a the .efforts of Professor short reception, we departed Roberts and his •French with our respective families associates. We sincerely hope for a well deserved day of that this program will sleep. continue as a meaningful part Friday, October 31- WRUC Halloween BaD: 8:30 p.m. at Alumni Gym. Live broadcast, refreshments, prizes, costumes suggested; admission $.25. FllmSeries: Alfred Hitchcock's \Spellbound.\ 8 p.m., SSO 1'6. Saturday, November 1- D. E. C. presents two Edgar Allen Poe flicks: \Pit and the Pendulum\ and \Tales of Terror.\ Cider and Doughnuts will be served. 1 p.m. Old Chapel. Admission $1.00. Tom Paxton Concert: 8:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel; admission, $3.00. Sunday, November 2- Fllm Haps: \Professionals.\ SS016. 3, 7, and 9:15 p.m. Admission, $.75. The following Tuesday, of the Junior Yea!' Comp Ed ~~~~~~~~an.I••P~ro~i•~•t•s•~•U•m•.o•n•.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••l The curriculum consists of !fii·~{:£~~hl~~·:~:~ GRAND OPENING eee Qebapttr VII field and classroom work and (BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE CLOTHING) an approved independent study project. The most challenging aspect of the pro gram has been to effectively communicate the French people. In Angers, classes are at the JUT, a rre:nc1n• counterpart to RPI. We one, two-hour class a week with French students and many of us have attempted to PXtend this contact beyond the classroom situation. Blither The Bloodmobile will be at Alumni Gym on Wednesday, October 29, from 11 :OOa.m.- 5:00 p.m. All students and faculty are urged to donate. Op Mov, the sensational new body movement experiment will meet agailli on Wednesday at 4:30 in the Old Chapel. There will be a meeting for all those who as yet do not have little brothers, on Weclnesday, October 29 at 4:30p.m. in SS 016. DR. ASPATURIAN Continued from page 1 that Dr. Aspaturian said he suspected \a strong verbal statement by the United States might have been enough to halt the intervention.\ But President Johnson wanted very much to get an invitation to Moscow and \was responsible in some degree to the unsatisfactory response of the U.S. both before and after the Czech intervention,\ Dr. Aspaturian said. • oLiQ A~o STRlP€1) TE.ANS 1 • • DUNGAREES \ .......... ... '--- - -- sEE IT ALL AT THE NEw ••• Qebapter VII PLAZA SEVEN SHOPPING CENTER STOP 21 (ROUTE 7) TROY-SCHENECTADY ROAD LATHA~. N.Y. 10% INTf\ODUCTORY DISCOUNT WITH UNION I.D. THROUGH OCTOBER The Lester Fund, the Union Political Science Department, and the Union-Skidmore international relations club sponsored Dr. Aspaturian's address. A Rockefeller Fellow, he has served as a consultant to the .RAND Corporation, the Army War College, and the U.S. Disarmament Agency. Dr. Aspaturain is the author of 13 books and numerous . articles in learned journals. Ill•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

PAGE 4 Bad Breaks Kill Gridders Three bad breaks, coupled with generally sloppy play, a brilliant Hobart running at tack and a sputtering Garnet offense, sent the Dutchmen to a 35-21 loss at the hands of the Statesmen. The defeat was the third straight home loss for the Garnet, and their fourth setback in six outings. Rich Swan highlighted the contest by becoming Union's record-holder for career pass receptions. The first bad break came with only seconds left in the opening period, as the Garnet moved the ball near midfield for a vital first down on a Ken Pearce-Rich Swan pass play. Neither side had been able to generate much offense in the first stanza, and the Dutchmen were mounting the first drive of the game. The play was called back, however, on an off-side call and on the succeeding play Hobart's Bob Lowe grabbed his first interception of the afternoon. With 13: 26 left in the half, the Statesmen took the lead, 7-0. Statesman Capitalize Bv HENRY FEIN Swan to move the ball to the Hobart 43 before tossing a textbook beauty to Mike Kumpf for the scoree. Titne Runs Out Alekiweicz almost negated the effort, however, as the Statesmen wisely used their time outs and threatened as the half ended. Once again, the frosh signal caller rambled around end for a long gainer, this time all the way down to the Union 3 as the gun sounded. The score stood 21-7 as the squads headed for the lockers. The third quarter was one of mighty frustration for the Garnet. After the defense held the Statesmen, the Dutchmen began a \grind-it-out\ ground offense similar to that employed against RPI the previous week. The big play came midway through the drive, which began on the Union 9, Near midfield, the Garnet were faced with a third and sixteen situation. Head coach George Flood called for a reverse by Swan, and the end rambled deep into Statesman territory. Sophomore Rick Jaszczak, who may have won back his starting job with a fine performance as a pass receiver, took a swing pass from Pearce and twisted free for a 73-yard TD play midway through the period to bring the Garnet to 35-21, as Pearce tossed to Swan for the two points. Pearce Inconsistent In all, the game was a disappointment. The Statesmen were unexpectedly strong, and overwhelmed the Garnet linemen both offensively and defensively. The Statesmen also showed a potent attack, especially on the ground, where they picked up an amazing 418 yards. On the other hand, the Union passing attack was quite inconsistent. At times, Pearce was perfect, but he also threw six interceptions to a proportedly weak Hobart secondary. J OCTOBER 28, 1969 Giant-Kill'ing Boaters To:p c. t Powerful E:nginee.rs, 1-0· Ey HANK LEVINE ln what must be termed the ~greatest upset in the recent history of Union College sports, the varsity soccer team defeated R.P.I. Saturday by a score of 1-0. R.P.I. had been ranked fifteenth in the country and second in the sta•te. The Garnet's ,1jtf record now stands at 4-3- I. The key to the victory was an excellent job done by coach Brown in scouting the Engineers, The Garnet knew R.P.I.'S personnel very well. As Coach Brown pointed out, \We felt that ' their strength was their offensive line.\ To counteract the Engineer asset, the Garnet came out with a man-to-man defense. Pete Palen, Hook Wheeler, Bob Mackenzie, Larry Mullman and Andy Sherman were especially cited for their defensive performance. \The defense demoralized their offensive line,\ commented Brown. The lone score of ;the game came with 6:11 to go in the first · -' quarter, as Chris Swan s[.ipped the ball between the R.P.I. fullback and the goal p0st on a corner kick. From there on it was a see-saw battle with the Garnet showing their defensive prowess. Biggest Win In retrospect, Coach. Brown emphasized the team effort exhibited by his ball club, stating, \Its the biggest win I've ever had.\ ' ,, The hooters face tough competition again this week; they take on Colgate at home on Wednesday, Colgate's record now stands at 4-3-2, as the Red R.aiders have defeated Clarkson, Middlebury, . , Rochester, and CornelL Coach Brown admits, however, \We ' don't know Colgate's personnel that well, so that we doll't plan to use the man-to-man defense again.\ Whatever defense they use, the spirits of the Garnet are sky-high, as the victory over R.P .I. has renewed their confidence. Coach Brown's fine coaching effort has helped to mold the boaters into a team that will semmingly be the first winning Union soccer team since 1958. . .· VOL. E The two squads then traded punts before the second break put the Dutchmen deep in the hole. On a high pass from center, punter Jim Sabella was forced to scamper through the end zone averting a safety by inches. When he finally got the punt off, on the run, it traveled only to the Union 17. With ten minutes left in the half, Hobart owned a 14-0 lead. However, on a fourth down situation from the Hobart 12, Pearce was intercepted again and the drive ended. But defensive halfback Steve Ciesinski quickly picked off a Raleigh aerial and raced to the nine yard-line. On the first offensive play, Pearce hit Swan for the TD. His attempted two-point conversion pass was overthrown, however, and Hobart led 21-13. Frosh Boot Falls In Overtime· ~ Me~ Wit With 2:51 left in the second stanza, freshman quarterbacks Bob Raleigh and Don Aleksiewicz engineered the first sustained march of the afternoon, moving 51 yards in six plays. The highlight was a 36-yard around-the-end keeper by Aleksiewicz that moved the ball to the Garnet three. With 1 : 23 left in the half Raleigh hulled his way into the end zone to make the score 21-0. Starting on his own 31 after the kickoff, Pearce completed two fine passes to The Statesmen came right back, as Bill Prather borke free on Hobart's first play after the kickoff, and raced 75 yards before Ciesinkse pulled him down from behind at the Union 5. Raleigh once again hulled his way to paydirt, and the Hobart lead was quickly 28-13 as the third quarter ended. Lowe put the game on ice early in the fourth quarter, as he picked off a Pearce pass at the Union 20 and raced into the end zone. The Union College freshman soccer team went down to its second defeat of the season, Saturday, as it dropped a heart-breaking 3-2 overtime decision to RPI. The loss lowered Union's record to 4 and 2 with one game remaining on the slate. The Garnet took an early lead in the first quarter on an unusual play. On a corner kick, Pete Foy leaped high, and headed in a shot over the RPI goalie. The Engineers, however, scored in the second period, to Knot the score at the half. After RPI had gone ahead, the Garnet began to move in the fourth stanza. Following a wild scramble in front of HVCC Trips '73 Gridders THE PEANUT STORE By DENNIS ALSOFROM The freshmen football team suffered its second loss of the season on Friday, falling before the Vikings of Hudson Valley Community College by a 20-l 0 score. Throughout the game the Garnet offense was unable to put together a sustained drive and managed only one touchdown on a pass from Mike Hogan to Doug Jansen. Bob Mitchell added four paints on a conversion and a 35-yard field goaL The big disappointment of the game was the defensive secondary, which allowed two long scoring passes and long completion that set up a short plunge for a score. The defensive line, however, did play a good game against the powerful Vikings ground attack. The yearlings will be looking to even their record at 2-2 on Friday, when they take on the Engineers of RPI on Alexander Field. Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all ovtr the world. 406 STATE ST. Part Time Help. Sales ....... News ....... Announcers WSNY/1240 393-3622 By MIKE HUMBER the RPI goal, Buzz Guida alertly booted the ball into the open net from a difficult angle. With both teams unable to maintain a steady attack, the teams remained tied, sending the game into overtime. RPI scored with 53 seconds remaining in the first extra period, to send the yearlings to their second defeat in six starts. Due to numerous injuries, plus the fact that Paul Martini was moved up to varsity, the yearlings were short four starters for Saturday's game. Good hustle by the reserves, however, enabled the Garnet to stay in the game. Coach McMurray was pleased with ~ · the team's performance, especially the play of Mike Friedman and Walt Witholt. With some of the injured players returning, the team should do better against visiting Colgate on Wednesday. DOUGLAS Schenectady 's Leading Men's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN ~ BATES WALL- STREETER HUSH PUPPIES LUCEY SEBAGO - MOCS MANSFIELD Pl'lone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Next To The Underpass of beauty, and drugs: £' Sen. warne Am eric Laos is same p~ noted a in the S Congres policy decision Spe audienc1 Chapel, Democ United~. this bu secret v outrage has gre: what is forces it L MeG withdra 6 force: advoca presenc1 1 the Pac: any pi mainl: represer Western MeG \steps restor Congres adminis think Vietnan going t alert.\ The m o s 1 ··~ accom Senate · come military

J c. (' j ariked s ,1, {' Fou.nded at Union CoUefJe 1877 coach .P.l.'S VOL. 99; NO. 15 PRICE TWENTY CENTS SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, OCTOBER 31.,1969 ·that · , Senate Names Buzak tn ACC; Hears HCM Conduct Letter the and line,\ first R.P.I. it was effort ever y take stands ebury, I 1' I I - I By RICHARD E.PATTERSON JR. The Student Senate, Senate representative to the meeting Tuesday night, All-College Council (ACC), .., approved a pass-fail system, a and William Dawson, '71, and constitution for the Black John Witherspoon, '73, were Students Alliance, and a elected to the Senate's ' ~' resolution censuring student committee on committees. behavior at recent football The Senate also approved the games. Concordiensis constitution, ~'we l ·' EdBuzak,'70,waselected and tabled a motion *** plan use, R.P.I. effort y, the four game. with Mike itholt. team on Y. .· Student Poll Nets 24-J OK I ~- Jean Shepherd, humorist, satirist and commentator for WOR Radio, will speak at Convocation on November 5, at 11 : 30 in Memorial Chapel. The pass-fail system, proposed in the Student Senate received the approval of on-campus students by almost a 24-1 margin, it was McGovern Withdrawal Demands Immediate Sen. George McGovern warned Tuesday that American involvement in Laos is \leading us down the same path as Vietnam\ and noted a \new determination in the Senate to restore some Congressional voice to foreign policy and domestic policy decisions.\ Speaking before an audience of 1300 in Memorial Chapel, the South Dakota Democrat said that the From Asian Wars By M. PAUL ANDREWS III the budget could be \cut in half without jeopardizing the national security at all.\ Withdrawal McGovern also called for withdrawal of U. S. troops from Vietnam \within the next year.\ But he said that during disengagement, steps should be taken to protect troops in the process of withdrawal and to secure \mutual release of prisoners on both sides.\ \never again should American forces be sent anywhere in the world to try to protect a political regime which lacks the respect of its own people.\ But he emphasized that his position was \not isolationist.\ He said he favored continued military and e conornic equipment assistance to Israel \along the lines they've requested,\ and would support any legitimate government having the support of its people, in a similar way. £. United States should \cut out this business of conducting secret wars. I think h is an outrage .that even the Senate has great difficulty knowing what is going on in terms of forces in Laos .. \ . r . Sh.inagel Speaks Dr. Michael Shinagel, Chairman of the Department of English will be the principal speaker at the annual meeting of the Mohawk Valley Library Association next Monday, November 3, in Johnstown, N.Y. Limited Presence McGovern called for withdrawal of all American \ forces from Asia in advocating limiting \our presence to military bases in 1 the Pacific. There is no longer any place on the Asian mainland for military representatives of the white Western world,\ he said. McGovern added that \steps are being taken to res tore some sort of Congressional check on the administration and military. I think we've learned from Vietnam that Congress is going to have to be more alert.\ The Senator said that \the most important ~ accomplishment of the Senate in 1969 is that it did come to grips with the military budget.\ He said that p SEN. GEORGE McGOVERN He added that \gauranteed amnesty\ should be provideJ in the U. S. or countries neighboring South Vietnam for •'those Vietnamese who feel threatened by U. S. withdrawal, so that we won't have the blood purges some people anticipate after our withdrawal.\ Future Lesson McGovern said that a \lesson for the future\ from the Vietnam war is that Speaking on \Sex Censorship, and the Library,\ Dr. Shinagel will discuss many of the basic questions about pornography that he . covers in his Disputed Questions course, \Sex Literature, and Censorship.'' An examination of the nature of pornographic literature, the course deals as well with the cultural, historical, psychological, and legal aspects of this. controversial subject. The Mohawk Valley Library Association covers 13 libraries in Fulton, Montgomery, Schenectady and Schoharie counties. announced last night. Don Kessler, President of the Student Senate, released figures showing that 1195 students voted in favor of the proposal, 51 voted against it, and there were 38 abstentions. A total of 1284 of the 1295 on-campus students voted in the poll. Kessler said that this was a \clear indication of what students feel is needed\ with regard to revising the present course and grading system. He said that \every possible effort should be made to· bring about the speedy implementation of the proposal\. The proposed system, which Kessler called \long overdue\ should be in operation by the beginning of the winter term, he said. The pass-fail system would allow a student to take two courses per year (but no more than one per term) on a pass-fail basis. Pass-fail would not apply to courses required in_ the student's major field. Professors would not be notified which students in the course were taking it pass-fail, but would report a letter grade to the registrar who would translate it to a pass-fail on the student's transcript. The 300 students who live off campus have not yet been polled because elections for off-campus senators was only held recently, but Kessler said he expected the results to be available by Monday, November 3. Kessler is gathering data in preparation for presenting the pass-fail proposal to the Curricular Affairs Committee on Wednesday, November 5. concerning an ACC proposal to enforce quiet hours from 2-7a.m. on Weekends . Two Options The pass-fail system, approved unanimously, would allow students two pass-fail options per year outside their major fields. Professors whould not know which students were taking their course on pass-fail and would report a letter grade to the registrar who would then translate the letter grade to a pass or fail on the student's transcript. Amendments allowing a student to take a fourth course per term on pass-fail with the option of having these courses count toward graduation requirements were tabled. The motion now goes to the faculty. Larry Sykes, '71, presented a constitution for the Black Students Alliance which was approved by a substantial margin. Student Conduct The Senate heard a letter from President Harold C. Martin concerning the conduct of Union students at intercollegiate football games. The President complained of \a good deal of drinking during the games, and too much drunkeness, which is the result of too much drinking befor~ the game. H~ cited \gutter born\ cheers and other \tasteless acts,\ and called on the Senate to do what it can to \restore good spirits and reasonable decorum.\ He said that alcoholic beverages on the field during this Saturday's football game at Williams are \expressly prohibited.\ After discussion of the letter, ·the Senate passes the following resolution: \In the · light of recent objectionable actions at football games, the Student Senate recommends that students conduct themselves in a sports- man-like manner at all athletic events and other College acitivities.\ The ACC resolution calling for enforced quite hours on weekends had little enthusiastic support in the Senate and was tabled to the next meeting to allow Senators to poll their living units.

PAGE 2 The time to act tS now! PeaGe grpups, professional or:ganizations, and most of all, colleges and universi6es across the nation are preparing for the largest march on Washington, D.C. since the post World War 11 Veterans march, to protest continued American involvement in Vietnam. Plans are ah·eady well under way at Williams, Amherst, and Wesleyan, to mobilize for massive demonstrations either in Wasltington or locally. The rivalries are notably onesided ill sports, questionably one-sided intclledually, and appear to ~e also one-sided with regard to peace. Here at Union plans are <.mly now being announced for a general student body meeting to organize s01ne ~ort of Union participation in the November 15 :\lobilization. The effort IS belated and hardly ovPrwhelming in its proportions but we must nom•tlwless endorse it wholeheartedly_ Sensible Americans have lottg realized that the war against Vietnam is politically q.ue~tionably and morally horrifying. Prt>sident Nixon pledged a ~peedy end to the war through a just and honmable negotiated settleinent. Tlw negotiation~ art' apparently deadlocked, but the war must lw stopped. We who are tlw one~ railed upon to fight must be the otws to lead the movement again~t further continuation of th<' War. President :\l ixon may not be affected by the \ovember \loratorium. But the chaJH.:es are that being the professional politican he i~. he will be wanting to stop the war if puhlic sentimmt is vo<\al against it. Tht> role of the ~tudents must not only Le to march and appear at the \V ashington ''\happening\ but to convince those most likely to affect N ix<m, the voters. that they must march or write their congressmen. At the November 4 meeti11g the organizers and Union students present might be wise to consider not only participation in the Washington aspect of the \loratorium, but also continued convassing of voters in the art>a to lend support to pPace. \TIJose who nt ake peaceful i ;n p o s s i b l e m a k e rePolutio11 violent reuolution Qlouror Published Tuesday and Friday during the Union College academic year by the Student Body of Union College. Schenectady, New York. Published Thursdays during the Upward Bound Proiect by Upward Bound students in residence at Union College. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College inevitable.'' l\ublishers Representative. 360 'Lexington Avenue. N.Y.C. E:ditorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Whitehurst Printing & Binding Co .• Inc .• 416-418 F'ifth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Entered in the Schenectady ·Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20c a. copy; $6 a year delivered IUlywnere in the United States. NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in·Chie[ HENRY FEIN .......................................... Managing Editor CARLS. GOLDSAND and JEFF BIRN Business Managers WILLIAM OUZER ............... _, .. _ .............. Executive Editor PETER J. WEINGOLD ...... ...... ,_ ............. ; ... Campus Editor RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR ...... _ .. Contributing Editor BILL HOLLERAN ................... -.................... Sports Editor JODY SASLOW .............. ·-···-···-··· .. ·--·Photography Editor PAUL ANDREWS ............ _ ....... _ .................. Editor-at-large STAFF- Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoj{, Tony Faga, Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Garrigan SPORTS STAFF- Mark Shugoll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine .t OCTOBER 31, 1959 OCTOBER T.im Hardin Scores In New Al·bum .i An Eloquent Testimony To Love ''An Well gang, it looks Like I'm back again with my facetiousness, sarcasm, social commentary, and some music. Anyway, Tim Hardin did an album called \Suite for Susan Moore and Damian\ a long time ago. It got no publicity or anything 'cos he only wanted to let certain people to hear it. I've never seen a review of it anywhere so very few people have heard of it. Great. Now the album. On the cover, it says - \WE ARE - ONE, ONE, ALL IN ONE\. This is an album of love - the love between all three of them as sung by Tim. (Oh ya, Susan Moore is his wife and Damion is his kid.) It's amazing the amount of love they have for each other. The only thing close to it would be a pioneer family first coming into the wilderness and, having been forced to protect themselves from all intruders, because all intruders are enemies, have developed this great love for each other within the family unit (nowadays, every external intrusion is considered a hostile approach between people - but there's still no love - so if you wanna know, either try loving somebody truly or write to Pres. Nixon and He'll tell you what a good question it was but it's classified material: LOVE IS CLASSIFIED MATERIAL? A lot of people have tried to write and/ or sing a love album, but he's one of the few, if not the only person to KING'S ATLANTIC SERVICE STATION 717 Nott Street We Cater To Union Students lO<r'o Service Discount Phone 372-0528 - PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson·Hall- One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. .By M. GROSSMAN actually convey the emotion oflove to the listener - except to plastic fantastic lovers. The first side is just him playing instruments and singing - a very simple sound that can make you think. The backgrounds are one or two instruemnts, and his songs, called \implications\ ('cos that's exactly what they are) have amazing lyrics - we are - one, one, all in one. The second side, musically speaking, is more complicated, with the same really good words. On each side there is a poem - words with musical background. The only difference between these and the songs is that these words are spoken and the words to the songs are sung - both still having the same really beautiful lyrics that only love can inspire. At the end of the second side, Susan does a poem with Tim called \Susan\. I'm not about to tell you exactly what the album is like; all I'm trying to do is give you a bit of background and tetl you about the aura it creates - to me at least. To me, this album means love, a thing I'm personally involved with because so few people have it. And I wish more people had the capability of honestly getting involved with an emotion like love, but obviously, most people don't because there's war and bigotry and little kids starving everywhere and kids going without christmas presents that could make them happy for a bit. Try doing something. You might feel fulfilled. Now that I've finished crying (little joke there - ha ha ha), go and get the album if YOU want to (it's like the best album I've ever heard). Try some love. Have a mind revolution too. Have fun. Paul McCartny is alive and well in Downtown Schenectady. M. Grossman. Student Body Meeting on Nov. 15_ Mobilization of Washington. Tues, Nov. 4 at 11:30 in SS016. Bus tickets for trip down - on sale at the meeting, at West College Tues. & Wed. at supper, a Library Tues. & Wed. after supper, at Student Act. all day Wed. $1 0-$15 - Busses are co-ed with Skids. Sponsored by Social Action Committee DOUGlAS Schenectady's Leading Men's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN *BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK-OVER* SEBA~MOCS MANSFIELD* SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS The -: ,Restaun life-style it crystal me dishonest J film woul< for ,ever Restaurant 11 most beau · warmmov The rea success is t -··Penn emp 1 possible, 1 the Brock action ffii .·,They look crash pad~ refugees fr ~· langupge nobody words condescen • otJ groovy\). being tog€ ·-.'I· I , .( . Freshn Faculty through . .' 4-7, fo completir term < appoin; necessary Studer change tl .. the begir · term sl appropria Administ! ~>' A rep1 Coro F01 campus o A.M., in' purpose students internshii The I designed career ir , metropol /San F1 \classroo: It last: , fellowshi] $3,600. For consult y Phone FR 4·8577 science d< 319 State Street Schenectady, N. y. There $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON College l\ PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD ·( Saturday ::=======:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::======~ 8-12p.m. Admissio 'For three Generations.' fhose Who Koow ... Have been recommending 5 HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ''3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR'Y • • 4 A b Tuesda October sponsor~ yielded blood. 1 repartee responst student! Anot held in ru:e for res onst The Commit In ter-ce \The M1 A p o discussic be at 1 ~ Cultural Novemb informa Weingol1 .('

1959 lo is mnd ua it eans 1ally few wish the tting tli.ke most ,ere's little ·and :tmas make Try night ished - ha lbum e the ~ard). mind e and own ;sman. of s for es. & :r, at Y. :LR'1 d '- ' 1 -~ OCTOBER 31, 1969 PAGE3 Arlo's Alice's Restaurant: \An Honest, Timely Statement / The film \Alice's -: ,Restaurant,\ like the life-style it depicts, is a fragile crystal movie. One note of dishonest pretension and the film would collapse. Luckily for ·everyone, \Alice's Restaurant\ is one of the & most beautifully honest and · warm movies ever made. The real reason behind the success is that director Arthur -··Penn employed, as much as possible, the inhabitants of the Brock church, where the action mostly takes place. ··,They look like refugees from crash pads because they are refugees from crash pads. The ~) langui'lge is never false; nobody accentuates hip words so it sounds condescending (\This is so · \' groovy\). These people enjoy being together, and it shows Bl.ITJ-tER Freshmen must see their Faculty Advisers Tuesday through Friday, November 4 · 7, for the purpose of completing winter and spring term course outlines. appointments may be necessary. Students who desire to change their major prior to .. the beginning of the winter · term should obtain the appropriate form in Room 2, Administration Building. A representative from the Coro Foundation will be on campus on November 5, 9-12 A.M., in Wells House. for the purpose of in te1viewing students interested irl their internship program. d The Cora internship is designed as preparation for a career in public life with metropolitan Los Angeles and /San Francisco as the \claSSl'OOmS.\ It lasts for a year and the , fellowship carries a stipend of $3,600. .. ~ • * For further particulars, consult your nearest political science department. There will be an All College Mixer at Skidmore on Saturday, November 8, from 8·12p.m., in Fathers Hall. Admission is $1. · A blood drive held on Tuesday and Wednesday, October 28 and 29, and sponsored by Phi Delta Theta, yielded a total of 198 pints of blood. Fraternity support was reportedly very good, but the response from independent students was disappointin~. Another blood drive will be held in the Spring, and hopes are for a more enthusiastic res~onse. ~ v The RPI Steering Committee is sponsoring an Inter-collegiate Dialog on \The Meaning of October 15: A post-moratorium discussion.\ The meeting will be at the RPI Chapel and ..: ~ Cultural Center at 2 p.m. on November 9. For further information contact Peter Weingold at 393-1927. ~ By DANNY SHOCKET in the film. \Alice's Restaurant\ is primarily the biography of Arlo Guthrie, and what he was going through before the \Alice's Restaurant Massacree\ made him a spokesman for his generation. The film catalogues his flight from college, his begirlnings in G r e.e n w ich Village coffeehouses (where he did imitations of early Dylan), and his life with the Community housed in Alice and Ray Brocl·.'s church. The church is a refuge for those whose life-style is incompatable with the main stream of society, i.e., hoods beat them and cops harass them. The church is not perfect, and the group makes it extremely difficult for Alice and Ray to have any kind of relationship. In the end, it all seems to collapse. In the meantime, however, the community is something special. The scenes where the community redecorates the church, and the infamous Thanksgiving day dirlner are portrayed with a simplistic beauty that make the film outstandirlg, and the failure of the community especially sad. Rarely has this kind of genuine happiness been so honestly and carefully depicted. Of course, the fllm covers Arlo's arrest and confrontation with the draft board. Astonishingly, it seems fresh and new, as if you hadn't heard the record 1 7,000 times. The real Officer Obie portrays himself with a deadpan style that shoud win him \Pig of the Year\ if not an Oscar. Arthur Penn, who is already famous for \The Miracle Worker\ and \Bonnie and Clyde,\ does an exceptional job with his inexperienced cast. Arlo Guthrie is a fine comedian, and an acceptable dramatic actor. The professionals, James Broderick as Ray and Pat Quinn as Alice, are comfortable irl their roles, and in this film that is what is important. The rest of the cast makes you feel you're eavesdropping on their conversations. \Alice's Restaurant\ is the kind of film that you'll remember along with the other truly exceptional movies you have seen. Along with the movie, there is a satirical short entitled, \Blaze Glory\ It is well done, and quite funny. Go to the State early to catch it with the film. Paxton's songs, including \Forest lawn\ (on dying), \Mr. Blue\ ~()n C()ps), \Talking Vietnam Pot Luck Blues\ (on guess what), \The Eooker\ (on prostitutes), \Clarissa Jones\ (on slums} are . . \Vilgot Sjoman's complete and uncut I Am Curious (Yellow) is a .. reme~rkab-le film (which) has been playing for a long time to droves of Swedes, and to several million people almost everywhere. It Is the story of a ~oung girl who Is, or was, curious about politics, nonviolence, zen, commitment, socialism, other Swedes and, to be sure, sex. It Is a serious film with a noble theme, and, in dramatic terms, it is original,\ says Look magazine. The Evergreen Film presented by Grove Press stars Lena Nym<:~n. A Sandrews Production. ADMISSION RESTRICTED TO ADULTS. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • .~ y is a beer drinker 1 interested in water? = • • • • • • • • • • : Good water is the heart of great beer. That's why .: • • : Genesee Beer uses crystal-clear Hemlock Lake, fed : • • i by underground springs and mountain streams, as i : its ba~ic water source. Then Genesee Beer filters : ! this crisp, cold water once, twice, three times. : : The result? Pure water to bring you pure : . .. : enjoyment in a sparkling, lively beer that's : • • : actually purer than water from your tap.. :· • • • • • • : No wonder Genesee is just a little more : • • ! exciting than any other beer. : • • • • • • • • • • : We'll do anything to bring you better beer : e GBCO, Rochester, N.Y. e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

PAGE4 OCTOBER 31, 1969 With nine of ten runners posting their best times of the fall, the Union College varsity cross-country team closed out its most successful season in fourteen years Wednesday, splitting a double-dual meet with Trinity and Oneonta. The Garnet harriers downed Trinity by a 18-46 count, but fell victim to the Starters, 29-26. Oneonta also recorded a victory at the expense of 'Trinity, winning 17-36. The s.p lit left the Garnet cross-country team with a S-2 final record, their best since 19 55, when Union runners posted a perfect 4-0 slate. . Harriers Dash To 5-2 Record team thwugh graduation. Not one senior is found on the G arne t' s ten-man varsity roster, and its top two runners, Moeckel and Forbes~ are only sophrnores. Also adding to the optimism is tke fact that the two teams that defeated Union this season, Oneonta and RP .I., will both lose key men to graduation. Oneonta's Young is a senior, as are R.P.I.'s two top runners, Pollack and Nelson. Paul Forbes cut a full forty-six seconds off his previous best time over the Union home course, to upset Bryant Moeckel, a.nd gain second place for th(! Garnet runners. Moeckel, Union's top finisher in the season's first five . meets, finished fourth, despite 1lLrniDg in his best time of the year. Oneontas Rick Young captured first place, posting a time of 29:44, seventeen seconds off the course record. Also scoring for Union were Joe Burgess w!J.o finished seventh, Tim .McCabe, who placed ninth, and Jim Huston, who was. tenth. The five wins c0mpiled by the 1969 harriers equaled the number of victories p0sted by Garnet cross-country teams over the last ten years. Covering the period 1959-1968, Union teams Kickmen Fall To Colgate Drop Tough 3-1 Deci~ion By HANK LEVINE The Union soccer team suffered a tough l()SS at the hands of Colgate Wednesday afternoon, bowing to the Red Raiders by a 3-1 score. In what was hoped to be a springboard to an excellent season, the Garnet didn't display the determination f.Tf'~ent i11 their vic tory over R.P.i. The Union booters' record now stands at 4-4-1. The Garnet hooters have not posted a winning season since 1958. The action see-sawed back and forth during the ftrst half, which ended in a scoreless tie. Union had several scoring attempts, but each time a quick Colgate defense was there to break up the passes. In the first period Colgate didn't show the finess that they are know for, as the Red Raiders looked sloppy, didn't hustle, and constantly seemed to be waiting for the next guy to make the play. In the second quarteT Union's defense was outstanding, making the clutch p-lays when they had to, and helping each other in covering Colgate's attackers Dave Block, the Garnet goalie, aided his own cause with some brilliant saves. Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranlcen Union came oat fighting in the second half, but they seemed to fall flat when Colgate's Fred Drew made the score 1-0 with 15:28 to go in the third quarter. The tide then turned to Colgate as Rich Tisch made it 2-0 with 1 ;35 gone in the fourth period and John Wabiszczewiz h~aded in a goal with just th.ree minutes left to finish off the scoring. The Garnet tried to put together an attack in the final period but coulc[n't seem to find the goal; goo<! passes and shots were often just off the mark. ROYALTY $300 TO 500 WEDDING RINGS7:50 MAN'S RIN~. 125 When the name \Keep- sake\ is in the engagement ring, you can be sure of a perfect center diamond. And, you can't buy a finer diamond ring. K REGISTEI'lE 0 k ee12s.a.. e· OlAMON D RINGS Rings enlargfd to show detallr Trade-Mark Rc~t. By MARK SHUGOLL managed a composite record of five wins and 43 losses. The last winning season for the Garnet thinclads was back in 1958, when the team finished with a 4-3 record. The high-spirited runners travel to Harpur College tomorrow to engage in the New York State Championships. Buffalo State is the heavy favorite in the sixteen-team field, with the Garnet aiming for a finish in the top eight. The team placed tenth last year after a 1·4 season. Moeckel, Forbes, and Burgess all seem capable of finishing in the top twenty-five in the individual competition. Burgess was the Garnet's top finisher in the States last year as he crossed the finish line twenty-sixth. Moeckel captured ninth place in the State Freshman Championships one year ago. Prospects for cross-country at Union in the future look brighter than ever, as the harriers will not lose one man from their 1969 The Garnet harriers are hopeful of capping of their most successful season by fielding a team in the IC-4A Championships to be held in New York City. GRAND OPENING --- ~bapttt VII 1 f ' • 1 ' 1 1 • I ' ' (BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE CLOTHING) BODY SHIRTS ~ oliQ Alf0 Vq,iLE Sl+:ltTS S TRlPEJ) S-1~'!..£_1\NCY' J'E.ANS VEST AIIIO Otu. T.$ • . AND AU. TNAJ1J DUNGAREES NE¥1 I ~ -- - sEE IT ALL AT THE NEw ••• ~bapter VII PLAZA SEVEN SHOPPING CENTER STOP 21 (ROUTE 7) TROY-SCHENECTADY ROAD LATHAM, N.Y. 10% INT~ODUCTORY DISCOUNT WITH UNION I.D. THROUGH OCTOBER (, I 4 Acc4 intense regular •> '· to blen •• . ~. lyrics i sevente Ton and th1 honest an eleg though him in

