al at. 1969- . ·, VOL. 98, 1\10 . ~6 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., APRIL 4, ·~969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Syracuse· Union studying Mike ·Costs Raised $120 Union To Offer Life Sciences Degree; II For Room And Board Graduate Program First In 40 Years \l·n· 5 e: p·. te:m b· .. 'e r· 19 6 ·9 PI a Doctor of Philosophy degree in life stu~~~tsp~~grthame e~ofn!~~s~~~ey~~ who are· however. \. Steve, ' Nationals who ndividual ans by Union to offer graduate sciences and systems, which include . · • · . . , , . . degrees in life sciences and systems such tields as physiological ecology, expansion of . library resource have been announced by President environmental sciences, molecular materials, particularly periodicals. 100 yard hopes, high , and 100 : Union College wllil raise ·FOom rents and dining hall b02Fd.chru:ges a total. of $120 a year effective in September, 1969. President llarold C. Martin, announcing the 'increase, said the College does not ,plan to increase its '. ~ tuition and fee, cture!ltly set at $2,145 a year, for the 1\969-70 year. The room deposit fee of $50 will be eliminated next yeaL. rfly as a 200 yard Harvey ·I have to fseconds Garnet make, 5.2), and 3:50.3, A recent Dr. Martin sai<l :room rents for all types of accomJnodations would rise $90 for next yea.r, an increase which , amounts to $30 a term or $3 a week. ) The boost was ntade necessary, he said, by a pattem of increasing losses on dormitory ope:rations. CostCmnscious \We are acutely conscious of the rising costs .o-f education,\ the • .. ~ president s~d, \but continuing losses in such auxiliary. enterprises as dormitories and d.ndng halls only drain away money that should be applied to ~ the educational ~Jrograms of the college.\ make the During the ]'~67-68 year, the college lost $53.39' for each student ·t' space in college-owmed housing, or a total of $56,171. Projections based on operations throu~h February of thls , year point to full-year losses of $63.60 through June, for:ll ,projected total of $66,908. Most of the losses are attributed to higbee :labor costs, which ~ ) account for a qu:arter of the total bill for dormitory oper11.tions. ,. The $1 0-a-terr'll hike in dining hall charges, totalling $30 for the year, is a result of higher fo10d costs and labor charges, Dr. MartEn :said_ Union Below Other Colleges '• . \ Even with th:e increases, Uniqn's total basic •cost for tuition and ree, room, and board will remain at or below the price at most other ... 11 comparable ius titutions in the Northeast. Using a weighted average of $515 for the ro()m cost at Union, the .J basic cost next year will be $3,245. Some compariso-ns;: Trinity, $3.275; Bowdoin, $3,35(); Williams, $3,350; Hamilton, $3,350; R.P.L, $3,535. The weighted avevage for Union is based on the number of ro()ms of various types. The actual cost to the student will range from $3,.210 in two-man rooms (room rent: $480) through $3,270 in four-maa suites (room:. $540) to $3,330 in a single room (room: $600). ' 0 . ...,....- Harold C. Martin. geneHcs, neuroendocrinology and according to James D. Palmer, Dean of Th developmental biology. The Science and Engineering. Palmer said · e program will mark the first · d d will · . 1 science-engm· eering center now under part-time gra uate stu y . continue, t1me in near y 40 years the College has 'th 1 b · t d t d d d con. struction will .provide facilities for W1 · many c asses · emg conver e · o awar e octoral degrees, which were 1 ft all f'·n d the .program, whlch is expected to ate a ernoon to ow u.u an in the past limited to electrical · d d d include around five students the first part-t1me gra uate s1u ents an engineering and physics. The opening d d d d t t d t t year with the possibility of 20 a vance un er-gra ua e s u ·en s o date of the program was not disclosed. attend. While the program is designed The program is designed to lead to C I} T O {'£ for doctoral degrees, Palmer noted ... ' . 0 ege . (!) .,er that a Master of Science degree would ..... also be offered. 5-Year Course Administrative sources said they expected the program to benefit the W • h M S D college reputation and faculty It . . . . egree recruitment. Palmer also said the college consortium with RPI, SUNY A and Albany Medical College would be Beginning with the fall term, Union will offer a five-year program leading to a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering and a Master of Science degree in industrial administration, President Harold C. Martin announced. The B.S.\M.S. plan is the first in Union's history which features an advanced degree as part of a combined program, Dr. Martin added. The college currently has a number of programs which permit students to obtain two bachelor's degrees in a five-year period. Students Begin Junior Year Students planning to take advantage of the new program must make their decision at the beginning of their junior year. In the new progran1, all participants will take one graduate course in each of the three tenns in their fourth year in addition to their normal load. During their fifth year, participants will take one undergraduate course a tenn, with the remainder of the courses to be at the graduate level. strengthened by cross-enrollment with Union. Granting of fellowships to students under the program was expected to cost $15,000 the first two years and to increase to $20,000 to $30,000 thereafter. Union faculty members expected to instruct in the program included Professors Roth, Holmes, Thimm, Seiken, Miller, Ketchum, Russ, Sowa, Lanese, Weick, Miroff, Huntley and Sheffer. \The college has been considering suQh a step for a considerable period of time,\ Palmer said. \Not until we felt that all aspects of such a broad step had been covered did we proceed with the program.\ Future Unsure For-Linebacker Coed Week By PIDL GALDSTON Janos Starker will appear in the Chapel on Monday night, at 8:30, in the first presentation of the spring term in the Schenectady Museum - Union College Concert Series. Participants will be required to spend three summers in an intern program. They will receive their B.S. in June of their fifth year and their M,S_ iti September of that year, immediately following their third sununer in industry. Thimm to Head Organizers of two student-run activities, Co-Ed Week and the Linebacker, were unsure about the future of their programs when contacted last night. .t Now for Frosh Only Starker ,Cellist, To Play Monday Dr. Alfred L. Thimm, chairman of the Institute of Industrial Administration, estimates that from six to eight students will be initially accepted into the program. Prof. Thimm believes that the new program \will produce an.: engineer with a broad knowledge of social sciences, a manager with a thorough technical background.\ Don Kessler, co-chairman of Co-Ed Week, indicated that of the 1600 applications distributed during the winter term by the Experiment in Co-educational Living, less than 50 had been returned. According to Kessler, the 20 recruiting representl!tives sent to campuses during vacation were not well-received by the students or the administration. © ·Three Years Of Gym ,.. , •r Belong To Bygone Era >..1' Union studeats vvill no longer be required to take 2 oompulsory physical ,. 'll education progr:am for three years, effective with the beginning of the spring term. The Union faculty adopted a 31 resolution which notes that \participati9a in the physical education prograill be voluntary after It . \If the freshman y-eilr, during which a two-day-per-weel< program shall be conducted.\ . Under the newr program, physical ,, fitness tests will .j),e given only to the entering class. Freshman who are unable to score .at the 50th percentile on a national scal.e ~ be scheduled ( ~ for a maximu!Tl for one term in a physical developnent course. Must P2ss Tests All students E'llUSt'pass a swimming and five minute \survival\ test or be enrolled in an .elementary swimming course for one tenn. A student ~ill be expected to demonstrate an al:lility to participate in two recreati·otul activities of his choice. The maximum time a student can be enrolled is one term, per activity. Grades will not be given for physical education. A single notation, \physical education completed,\ will be entered on a student's rect>rd at the end of the course. Wilford H. Ketz, chairman of the Department of Physical Education and Director of Athletics, notes that enrollment in physical education during the spring term will drop ta: 89 students from abour 1,100 1.1nder the old system during the recently-completed winter term. Intramurals to be Expan.ded An incoming freshman, be added, will be required to spend a minimum of two and a maximum of tli.Jee terms in the new program. The intramural sports program, he said, will be broadened to encourage increased participation. An elective program of physical education courses will be created to satisfy the needs of the student body, beyond the new one-year program, Ketz said. Janos Starker, acclaimed as one of the greatest cellists of our time, will present a concert at 8:30 p.m., Monday, April 7, in Memorial Chapel as part of the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series. Starker will present «sonata in D major,\ Locatelli; \Sonata in E major,\ Franck; \Suite No. 5 in C minor for unaccompanied cello,\ Bach; and \Rhapsody Bartok. Born in Budapest Starker was born in Budapest in 1924. At the age of seven he had already decided to be a cellist although it was not he who chose the instrument: his mother selected it for him because there was no piano in the house and his two brothers played the violin. After graduating frorn the Franz Liszt Academy in Budapest, Starker became first cellist with tlte Budapest Opera and Philharmonic Orchestras. In 1946 he left his native country because he \did not like the atmosphere.\ He concertized for two years in various European countries, and in 1948 came to the United States where he has made hls home since. Invented \Starker :Bridge\ Since 1958, Janos Starker h.as also been active on the faculty of Indiana University in Bloomington .as \Distringuished Service Professor.\ .. This program will fill a definite need in our society,\ he added. Freshmen Cars Twenty-three members of the freslunan class have taken advantage of the revised College automobile policy passed by the All-College Council Feb. 26 by registering their vehicles upon their return to Union for the spring term. Dean of Students, Edward Malloy's office expressed in a WRUC broadcast displeasure with freslunen students' failure to park in the correct lots. Some upperclassmen were forced to park on the grass behind Fox and Davidson Houses because of the lack of space there. Dean Malloy warned that students disobeying existing regulations face ticketing, fmes and loss of registration. He. also noted that repeated violations may endanger the future of the program, which is subject to review. According to the regulations, freshmen must park their vehicles in the two lots behind Richmond House, although the spaces immediately behind that dormitory are not to be used between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., Monday through Friday. Administrators were reportedly against co-ed weeks in general, and based their view on previous experience. Decision Due Monday Kessler said the fmal decision on co-ed week, now scheduled for April 14-18 would be announced this Monday. Bob Saltzman and Dick Daniel, organizers of the student course evaluation booklet, Linebacker, reported that fewer students participated in the project this time than ever before. Of the l ,375 students eligible to fill our evaluation cards 438, or 31.8 per cent of the students who had registered by yesterday did not pick them up. Cards Not Returned In addition, 15 per cent of the cards that were picked up were not retarned to the Linebacker staff_ It was not known how many of the retu.rned cards were left blank. Based on the lack of response, further projected analysis of the retarns, and past experience, Saltzman and Daniel indicated that, although they are not giving up on the Linebacker, its future is unsure. 1. ! } I t'

:...:PA~G=E=-=-2--------------------------------------------------------~....:..A.;;.;..P-'-R-'-'IL-'-'-'-'4_,_, 1.;...;9:.....6\\\'\9 APRIL 4, 1' FULL DISCLOSURE The decision by the Faculty that the College embark on a graduate program in Life Sciences and Systems impre::;ses us al:i an insufficiently examined matter that has been pushed through the faculty legislative mill rather unobtrusi:vely, while co-education, parietals, and the physical education 1:equirement have held the attention of both the student body and a large section of the faculty. A reasonable standard for evaluating the Life Sciences graduate program is the recommendations of the Committee on the Future of Union College, which met during the winter of 1967. That comm-ittee was composed of two members of the Board of Trustees, five outside experts, the President, and Provost. We are not convinced by the documents presented by the drafters of the graduate program that it will conform to tlwse standards. Apparently the 25 faculty members who voted against the pl'ogram and the nine who abstained harbored similar doubts. But our primary objection to the Life Sciences program is not with the subs~ance of the final proposal, .but with the murky, semi-secretive process by which it was developed and promulgated. The proper role for the stuclent body in malting a decision with the scope of the one rnade by the Faculty the last day of winter term exam week is problematic. Although students sit on the Curricular Affairs Committee and the Graduate Study Committee, in each case there are only as many students on these committees as there are Deans of Center. But there is a significant difference between limiting policy- forming and decision-making authority to a small group, and a limited disclosure of the substantive questions with which the College committees deal Partly, the responsibility for this lack of disclosure is ours; the campus media have b'aditionally been insufficiently energetic with respect to getting this kind of news to the College community. But the primary reason that there is little disclosure of the substantive issues with which the various College committees deal is that the Administration choses not to broadly publicize that information. Similarly, the Administration has not taken the initiative to circulate to the student body the documents that describe the basic assumptions and information which are used as reference points in the policy-mailing process. We arc not charging that there has been a purposeful effort to prevent the disclosure of this information. But since the Administration has the most resources on this campus for disseminating specific, accurate information about important questions, then they must recognize that holding these resources leads to a responsibility for insuring that materials like the recommendations of the Committee on the Future of the College promptly see the light of day. In order for the students to be able to rationally and' responsibly discuss campus issues, they need to have access to all of the information that the decision-makers are using. We believe that discussion by informed persons never has a deleterious effect on the decision-making process here, with the single large exception of disclosure of the tactics for securing financial support, and similar negotiations which tend by their very nature to he delicate matters. If the political actions of some collegians tends to resemble the senselessness of mobs like those .of Paris, perhaps it is because they both have the same incomplete information and, therefore, limited insight into the difficult substantive problems that their leaders face. But to treat Union students in much the same manner as the masses of a troubled city does not seem to indicate much confiderice in the educational process here, which we feel provides all that equips us to deal rationally with difficult problems and is essentially the single experience that differentiates Union men from mob fodder. The reluctance of the Administration to be wholly candid with students on all questions throughout all stages of discussion, with the exception of the delicate matters noted above, indicates an implicit reservation in their minds regarding the way the mass of students will behave when they are fully aware of the prohl~ms that the College faces. If our view is correct, then the All College Council and student participation on College committees appear as little more than crumbs that a foreign queen has. tossed to the crowds in the gutter as she passes them in her royal coach. · Through The L(}<>king Glass ) ' I Spring Will Be a Little Late This Year ' · Th~~ 1 1 · J> Cleveland, By PAUL AN&REWS i honorary D< In recent weeks there has been much conjecture concerning the reasons behind the failure of spring to arrive on the Union College campus. While other campuses are basking in balmy sunshine, Union continues to shiver in belew-freezing temperatures and wind, and some students are even speculating that spring will never come to Union. There have been many suggested explanations to accoWlt for spring's failure to appear. One rumor had it that the bookstore had put a rush order through on spring and, although they were making no promises, they hoped it would arrive within another three months. Another rumor proposed that construction workers had prevented the arrival of spring because the good weather would leave them with no excuse to move slowly on construction of the Science Center. Unanimous Faculty However, a number of observers have cited student apathy as the cause for spring's absence. They are q11i<:k to point out that,. although tl).e faclllty after intensive research into the matter voted unanimously to have spring at Union as soon as p<>ssible, student response to a .questionnaire on having spring resulted in only 4 8J. students rettuning the form. .although the m~CJrity of those who did were in favor. of spring at Union_ The questionnaire came in the walce of a heated debate over the issue which reached a peak during a con-vecation in Memorial· ChapeL Th~se against having spring opined tlJat it would be distracting from studies and that it would result in Uni·()ll·s losing its distinction among other small obscure Northeastern Jil:e.Ial arts colleges which do have S}lri:ng. They argued that Union would lose a great amount of its attractiveness to students who were inte1ested in attending a school whi{:h did not have spring. However, students who favored S}lring at Union rebutted that having spring was the current trend among college campuses throughout the co1.1ntry. They pointed out that colleges which have spring were drawing the best students from high sch.<lols, and that Union would be abl€l to recruit fewer and fewer siu<lents in the future unless spring came to the campus. Also, advocates asserted, having spring on campus created a healthier, m~Je realistic atmosphere which better prepared the student for life a'fter graduation. One student commented; \Union gtiYS tend to loCJk at spring as a physical object to be .used for their own pleasure, but spring is more th3ll that We're going to have to live with spring after we graduate, so why not have it while '\Ve •re in college, too? It's totally 1.11u:ealistic otherwise. Besides, only qlleers enjoy having only winter all the time.\ Quiet Dollars During the entire controversy the :ad ministration, in keeping with precedent. remained silent on the issue until the subject of money was ~· broached. Administrativeb'j)Okesmen hastily noted that new facilities would have to be build or existing ones remodeled before spring could {, come to Union. In all, they placed at ' · $5 million the minimum cost of introducing spring to Union. They also questioned the effect of h.aving 11 spring on Union's academic reputation and eruollment, and· some I .; o bserve·rs commented that the administration harbored secret fears 'J i . that it would lose a considerable amount of alumni contributions if spring came to Union. Some students, discontented .that l · spring had not arrived, organiZed a \Spring Week., which organizers said was designed to be an ' 1 experiment in I spring living.\ The project was to be :) \ entirely student organized and run ' separately from the adminlstration, organizers said. At last word planners were still recruiting from other '~ campuses where spring bas already come. commenceffil President f ( announced. f Stokes is elected may States city. The Hor junior U.S. : .State, will speaker. I nit Clevelan executive ha international ~ Cleveland m broad acclaiJ urban crisis and other I ¢ launching Cleveland pr• The m• undertaken If \Cleveland: Pote1 9 Wats · Vito T. Guideline:s for the Future Trustee Consideration Meanwhile, fue controversy over spring's failure to appear continued 1 to rage until today, when it was i revealed that the Board of Trustees, ') ' which originally had been scheduled ' to consider the issue three years ago, Utica, has v Foundation a year of s· study Chine! Following its third meeting in mid-February, 1967, the Committee on the Future of Union College made a series of recommendations. President Martin prepared a sum :mary of those recommendations, which are reprinted in excerpt below. The Trustee members of the committee were Dr. Ralph Bennett and William Waldron. Outsiders included James Morley, a Far Eastern Historian from Columbia; Douglas Brown, an economist who is provost at Princeton; Dr. Beno Stemlight, chairman of the board of Mechanical Technology, Inc. and a Union graduate; Dr. Albert Kuusisto, who is now the vice president for academic affairs at SUNY-Albany; and S.N. Green, an astronomer who is the provost at Haverford College. President Martin and then Provost Theadore Lockwood also sat with the committee. The committee proceeded on these assumptions: \that the principal streng-th of the private undergraduate .conege is a sense of unity which shows itself mainly in its capacity (a) to produce a good atmosphere for individual development, (b) to put considerable direct emphasis on value, and (c) to make the education it gives mainly man-centered rather than knowledge-centered; and that, therefore, any program developed to enhance strength should be measured in terms of these particular capacities; \that all strong surviving undergraduate colleges will have to develop a relatively distinctive image and personality if they do not now have one, whether by attempting to · match some of the varied offerings of a university or by other means;., \that it is possible to develop active scholarly research by faculty in an undergraduate college in some fields but that others may require graduate students and programs in order to attract faculty interested in research.\ \On the basis of these premises and of its discussions, the CoJllmittee, therefore, recommends: \that Union~s principal concerns continue to be a strong unclergraduate .program, a balanced }lraportion of whatever new financial resources it develops being devoted to iltat program· \that it begin at once to develop limited programs of full-time :resident graduate study, sinmltaneously continuing tc. :innrove the undergraduate program \that such programs be directed pri:Inarily toward the preparation of students for leadership roles in nat:ional and internati()nal .public and }lri\vate affairs and only secondarily 'to'\7/ard the professional teaching <Iegree (the Ph.D.) (Study of attrition rates for students starting out in undifferentiated graduate programs indicates that the Ph.D. goal is mythical yet somehow compulsive for most. The Committee sees no future for Union in graduate programs and believes a clear de tennination to ·develop terminal graduate programs at the master's degree level - with the expectation that some would go from them to doctoral programs later - is essential at the outset. The need, as the Committee sees this matter, is for programs that lead directly out to public and private enterprise rather than for more ,that duplicate the many already existing doctoral programs directed mainly at college - and university - teaching.} \that careful provision be made to nuintain a balance in strength for the current four emp.hases of the u11dergraduate program -- technological, scientific, social-economic, humanistic - by pxoducing a rougly equivalent impact of graduate study on each, though nCJt necessarily by the same means. \that whatever graduate programs ae developed should have as their llllain purpose the acquisition and retention of excellent faculty, all of \Those who ntake peaceful revolution impCJssible make violent revolution inevitable.\ Published Tuesday and Friday dur- lna; the. school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y, National Advertising Repre- aentative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College J\ubliahers Representati\·e. 360 Lexington Avenue, N. Y, C, E.ditorial Ofrice, Old Gym,. Union College, p.ublication Office, White,- h\\Jrst Printing & Binding Co., Inc., 4 16-418 rifth Ave .• T'roy. 235•4450. t:::ntered in the Schenectady Post Olfice as Second Class Mail Matter. s~bscript ion 20~ a copy; $6 \ year delivered anywhere in the United States. NElL S. KRAMER Editor·in·Chlef WILUAM OUZER CARL GOLDSAND Managing Editor Busfuess Manager whom would be expected to do some <lf their teaching in the undergraduate college Jose DaC engineering wasnamedE Fifty Fell (Like the second and third recommendations, ·this one is meant to emphasize the Committee•s deep concern that the undergraduate program remain .the principal concern of Union College.)\ finally met to discuss the proposal. In ). a sutprising, unprecedented move, , . ; the Board voted to table the issue t students fro arts college~ college was nominations until next fall~ to allow time for ' further study of ·spring on <lther campuses. A spokesman commented , 1 that in any case Union students could not expect spring until the fall of 1971 at the eaxliest, and probably not unti.11973. J 'II' were named. Potenza, took his u: Chinese \\ Union-State at Alban: pxogram. Fellowsh The Fou in succeedil agreement o the Founda1 'f renewed foJ period of after the ini: Present a , may also b1 infonnal c various su· relevance, ~ Foundation. Each Wa stipend of~ and $8,000 ~ Founded 1961 by M1 the Thoma: has, to dat• ) . \ variety of e purposes. Stay away from runaway skis. Sometimes, when a skier falls, a ski breaks loose from its safety strap and takes off down the slope on its own. And when you see a ski on the loose, your natural re- action may be to try to stop it. Don't! A runaway ski is like a spear. As it speeds downhill, it picks Clp tremendous momehtum and can take many an unpredictable bounce. To step into its path would be simply foolhardy. Instead, you should shout a warning to skiers and bystanders below. And let the runaway ski run its course and come to rest on its own. For the most reliable reports on ski conditions in the E~st, listen to \Ski Reports by Roxy\ with Roxy Rothafel, the voice of skiing. On WGY Radio 810 in Schenectady~and on other stations throughout the Northeast. And on your next ski trip, be sure to enjoy Schaefer- the one beer to have when you're having more than one. Schaefer Breweries, New York and Albany, N.Y., Eattlmore, Md. ,, 'I ~ . ., j ~ } ,. ) ·~ PI SM 262 MAYFAI~ At the Sio TUES. thru. THURS. ~ Ph SPECI!I Bri Free -- TH PLAN' and Nu

1969 APRIL 4, 1969 Cleveland's Mayor College Names Stokes for June Kudo The Hon. Carl B. Stokes, mayor of , : 1 , Cleveland, will be presented an ' honorary Doctor .of Laws degree at on the , was '' facilities existing could{, placed at cost of They. having ll some 1· ; the , ret fears J i · siderable if commencement exercises June 14, President Harold C. Martin has ( announced. Stokes is the first Negro to be elected mayor of a major United States city. f The Hon. Charles E. Goodell, junior U.S. Senator from N~w York .State, will be the commencement speaker. r·' Initiates Programs Cleveland's 40-year-old chief executive has received attention from international and national as well as 111 Cleveland news media He has won broad acclaim for helping derme th.e urban crisis which confronts his city and other American cities and for that 1 , r launching ,programs to attach Cleveland problems. aniZed a The most notable program said undertaken under his direction is ,) \ If \Cleveland: NOW!\ which envisions and run planners other •; already over it was [ ) i cheduled ago, In 1 . move, 1 issue \ time for '· other 1 ; could fall of probably - rom I re- can its and its one. .) .') J.il .,) t. \o' j. ) \' Potenza Win~s ?WatsonGran,t · Vito T. Potenza, a senior from Utica, has won a Thomas J. Watson Foundation Travelling Fellowship for a year of study in Taiwan. He will study Chinese. Jose DaCosta, a senior electrical engineering major from the Bronx, was named an alternate. Fifty Fellowships were awarded to ; students from 25 outstanding liberal arts colleges of moderate size. Each college was invited to submit four nominations, from which the fellows II' were named. Potenza, a political science major, took his undergradaate training in Chinese through the joint 'll Union-State University of New York at Albany Chinese Language program. FeUowships Can Be Renewed u The Foundation anticipates that in succeeding years, at the mutual agreement of an individual fellow and the Foundation, a fellowship may be renewed for a second year withln a 'f period of approximately six years after the initial grant. Present and former Watson fellows It may also be invited to attend brief, informal conferences devoted to various subjects of international relevance, sponsored by the ~ Foundation. Each Watson fellowship carries a stipend of $6,000 for single students and $8,000 for manied students. .,. Founded as a charitable trust in 1961 by Mrs. Thomas J. Watson, Sr., the Thomas J. Watson Foundation has, to date, devoted its funds to a variety of educational and charitable purposes. Tile PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipa TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. aho THURS. and FRI.: 7 Jo 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 \!1 JAY BILLIARD 1.1 LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. l&f SPECI\i. RATES FOR COLlEGE STUDENTS \ Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear ~ - ,. THE PEANUT STORE ·~ Featurin-g· PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over ·W~ the world, 406 STATE ST. a $1.5 billion, 1 0 to t 2-year effort to revitalize and improve the city. The fust 18-month phase of \Clewland: NOW!\ calls for the expenditure of $177 million to meet the city's immediate housing and neighborhood improvement needs, employment, youth resources, health and welfare, economic revitalization, and city planning. ••cleveland' NOW!•' brings together both public and private sectors in an onslaught on the city's problems. Town Han Meetings Stokes has conducted a series of Town Hall Meetings throughout Cleveland since taking office in November, 1967. At these meetings in various neighborhood locations, the mayor and his cabinet meet on a person-to-person basis with residents, explaining programs, answering questions, fielding complaints and, generally bringing government closer to the people. A high school! dropout, Stokes joined the U.S. Army shortly after reaching his 18th birthday and served with the Army of Occupation in Gennany. It was there that he resolved to complete his education. Returning to Cleveland after dischuge, he re-enrolled in the city's East Technical High School and received his diploma in 1947. He then attended West Virginia State College and Cleveland College of Western Reserve 'Unive:rSity. Ex-FBI Agent Gets Top Post John J. Kleinkauf, a retired Federal Bureau of Investigation agent, has become director of security and safety at Union, Dr. Harold C. Martin, president of the college, announced, A veteran of 3 2 years with the FBI, Kleinkauf was supervisor-in-charge in the Domestic Intelligence Division at FBI headquarters in Washington, D.C., at the time of his retirement in 196 7. He joined the FBI in 1935 as a clerk In 1943 he was appointed a special agent and, at various times, was assigned to Los Angeles, Denver, San Francisco, and New York City field offices. He was appointed a field supervisor in 1952. Du:ring the course of his FBI employment, Kleinkauf received 27 personal letters of commendation for individual meritorious achievement and suggestions made to improve FBI work . •GEN 9REW,CO,,ROCH., N.Y. He served· for three years as an investigator for the enforcement division of the Ohio State Department of Liquor Control, then en:rolle d in the University of Minnesota, where he earned a 'U n i;on Gradua.te Ap~pointed New Eco:nomics Head Dr. Robert S. Herman, Director for Higher Education of the New York State Joint Legislative C<>mllli ttee on Education and fonnerly the chief staff officer of the 1~67 State Constitutional Convention, has been appointed Professo:r of Economics and Public Ailministration. Bachelor of Science in Law degree. Returning to Cleveland again, Stokes worked as a Manicipal Court probation officer and attended night classes at Cleveland Marshall Law School, where he received an L.L.B. degree. In 1962, Stokes was elected to the Ohio Legislature, the frrst Negro Democrat. He was elected two subsequent terms, resigning from the state house upon his election as mayor of Cleveland. In May, 1968, he received the Fellowship Commission of Philadelphia national award, an honor which previously had been accorded to Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and Ralph Bunche, among other distinguished Americans. Carl B. Stokes President Harold C. Martin, announcing the appointment, said Dr. Herman would also be chairman of the Department of Economics. Th.e appointment is effective as of the ·beginning of the spring term. · · BliTHER . ' ' ' ' A 1941 .graduate of Union, Dr. Herman took his master's degree in pablic administration at the University of Cincinnati in 1943 and his doctorate in economics and pu.lJlic administration at New York University in 1950. Was Government Consultant He has held a number of posts in govenunent and education, and has acted as a consultant to governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia, and AErica. Dr. Herman was appointed Dil:ector of Research and Fiscal Policy for the New York State Division of the Budget in 1954. He also se:rved, successively, as the Director of Planning and Development and, from 1963 to 1966, as Assistant Director of the Division. He has held budgetary posts under three governors--two Republican, one Democratic. NEWEST All Seniors interested in selling tickets for Spring weekend contact Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office as soon as possible. Seniors should pick up questionnaires for class day activities and senior party at Student Activities Office and fill them out before April 11. The Department of Philosophy announces The Sternfeld Philosophical Prize for 1968 \ ... for the best original essay in philosophy by a member of the Senior Class.\ This prize, of value approximately $100, is normally awarded each year on Prize Day. Papers submitted for the prize should be from 3,000 to 5 , 0 00 words in length, neatly typewritten, and should bear a pseudonym, accompanied by a sealed LUNCH 72 5 Albany Street Specializing: HOT DOGS WITH fAMOUS SAUCE DINNERS AND SANDWICHES TAKE·OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 19211 Mon.·Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri.-Sat. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.·l A.M. envelope bearing the pseudonym on the outside and the true name, if any, of the contestant within. Only one essay per contestant may be submitted. Essays are to be given to Miss Wemple, Registrar's Office in the Administration Building before noon on Wednesday, April16. The Department ofEnglish invites sumissions for the following prizes by Aprilll: Allen essay prizes for seniors and Van Orden essary prize for freshmen. Essays •to be submitted to Prof. Shingel. Yudis prize and American Academy of Poets award for creative writing. Poems and short stories to be submitted to Prof. Gado. Room sign ups for the 1969-70 academic year are tentatively scheduled for the last week in April. Unlike previous years, all buildings are open to upperclassmen. The following priorities will exist in room selection: 1) Current occupants of a room 2) Members of the Class of '70 3) Members of the Class of '71 4) Members of the Class of '72 Being with each other, doing things together .•• know- ing that your affection is growing into precious and enduring love. Happily, all these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake, is in the ring and on the tag,, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color. and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler will assist you in making your selection ... He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ Rings from $100 to $10,000. Illustrations enlarged to show detaii.®Trade~JTiark reg. A. H. Pond Co., Inc., Est. 1892. \'1:.t\\\-- !!. c;n S T E R .E 0 k ~b}sa.. e® DIAMOND RINGS r---------------------------- 1 HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING l I Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- 1 I ment and Wedding\ and. new 12-page full color folder, both for 1 1 only 25c. Also, send spec tal offer of beautiful44-page Bride's Book. 1 I 5·69 I I Name 1 ~~~ I I 1 ..• a little more exciting! I City 1 I State lp ~ I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13201 I L-----~----------------------~

Concordy Sports PAGE 4 APRl L 4, 1969 Pucksters Post Winning Slate By BILL HOLLERAN excellent goal all season long. inadequate when the team ran out of money and, therefore, icetime at the end of the season. Werlin Swims To All-American In the fmale of their six•game slate, played on March 14, tbe Hockey Club posted a 5·4 win over a stubborn Hoosac Prep squad on R.P.I. ice to finish with a surprising record of three wins, two losses, and a tie. Play in the game was generally slow and sloppy, and the Garnei defense aided the Hoosac cause ·by knocking two loose pucks in to the cage for scores. The Dutchmem, however, can1e out on top on thte· strength of goals by Chris O'Neil, J.inn: Glidden, Jon S tmrn, Don Duncaa,, and Rick Ohler to avert m embarrassing loss. First Winning Slate However, in the R.P.I. game he was literally gunned down by the powerful Engineer attack, and kicked out an unbelievable total of sixty-three shots in two periods, only to he hit for nine goals. When the R.P.I. holocaust is eliminated from his record, Brickley is left with a sparkling 2. 70 goals-against average, a figure which truly reflects his netminding abilities. The Hockey Club, however, will not improve next season unless the skaters get more money and some responsible leadership by next fall. Twelve hundred db!lars seemed to be plenty last October when the Tax Committee coughed up the .funds, but it proved to be somewhat T-he Hockey Club also needs the responsible leadership <>f a coach. Although co-captains Rick Miller and Dick Brickley handled the team creditably this winter, they obviously lack ·the skill of a coach. Art Lawrence, who C()ached Garnet varsity hockey squads until the sport was eliminated at Union in 1949, has so far pledged a hands-off policy towards hockey, and it remains to be seen whether the Hetck:.ey Club will ever have a coach. If the skaters, however, get neither money nor a coach, hockey at Union could possibly sink back ·into another period of oblivion. By LEN SIMON Slteve Wedin capped an outstanding collegiate career by swirnrning faster than he ever had previo1:1sly twice in one day., and thereby earning All-A:mer1can honors at the NCAA College Division Cha!Ilpionships at Springfield, Massachusetts. What was remarkable about thte showing of the Hockey Club tbiis season was the fact that the skaters garnered a winning record in onl:Y their second year of operation. Lasot year, the pucks1ers struggled througill the winter on their own funds, sa'WV little practice icetime, anod' consequently dropped both of their games. This fall, however, the Ta:x Committee allocated nearly twelv-e hundred dollars to the Club, enabliiLg the skaters to rent icetime at least once a week at R.P.I., and t-o p urch ase jerseys and goalie' equipment. Hovey Rolls 652 1he competition, held March 20-22 at the Art Linkeletter Natat0rium on the campus of Springfield College, drew entries from about sixty teams from every part of the country. The mag11ificence of the facilities there was matched only -by the strength of the competition, as e:ach event boasted approximately 35 entries, each of whom has qualified with excellent times. The entries were paired off into six-man heats and time trials were held during the afternoon. The top six times qualified for the finals that evening, and the seventh thmugh twelfth best times made it t0 the consolation finals, also that evening. All twelve earned All-A.meJican recognition. The outstanding performances of several talented freshmen als.o contributed to the team's succes:s. The Garnet's top forward line tbiis season was a freshman trio cornp ose- d of Chris 0 'Neil, Jim Glidden, and Brad Hastings. O'Neilled the team i.n total points, netting five goals, and seven assists for twelve point:!~; Glidden paced the squad in goaJs. with six, while the trio combined to. score fourteen of the twenty-fiwe goals neeted by Union. Frosh wirlgerrs Emerson Martin and Hunter Townsend, and yearling goalkeeper Rick Ohler also performed well. Another plus for the Garnet tiLis season was the excellent goal.keeping turned in by junior Dick Brickley, :as well as Ohler. Brickley, played 'Fo.r illree Generations.' Those Who Know .•• Heave been recommending - By GARY PREVOST With one week remaining in the Dutch Classic Bowling League, tight races for the team title and individual average have developed. Monday night, Team No. 9, comprised of Pete Van Lund, Tom Benedict, John Irwin, and Bruce Northrup, faces Team No. 2, comprised of Jeff South, Greg Ellis, Fred Kaminsky, and Wayne Ugolik. in a position round match to break the tie between the two teams. Ellis holds a slight 16 pin over Al Case in the individual race. Both men are averaging 187. Don Hovey highlighted last week's action with the season's high triple of 652. Hovey, who is averaging 193 but can not qualify for the individual title because he has rolled too few games, scored 198,213, and 241 for the record total. The leading teams kept pace HERSHE:L MAURICE B WALTER A&J Union GraduatEs in Graubart Family'\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVI(E AND GOOD JEWELR't Your last check from home just bounced? Think it ovelj over coffee. The Think Drink. For your own .Think Drink Mug, sPnd 75C and your r:rwnl'end addn='S'i to! Thi:nk Dnnk Mug, Dept. N, P.O. Box 559. NewVoi-rk, fii·.Y.10046. The InternatiOnal Coffee Organ•zat•on. as each won three .points. Van Lund hit 210-578, Irwin 204-558, and Tom Benedict 557 to pace No. 9's win over Team No. 4, while Kaminsky's 528 lead No. 4 pver No. 5. Gary Prevost tightened Ius grip on third place in the average race, rolling a 202-575 for Team No. 4, which has clinched third place. The bowling club has announced its plans for the spring term and will attend three tournaments The Dutch Classic Singles League is forming 1o bowl in the spring term. Anyone interested should contact Gary Prevost, 377-8460. '72 Tennis All freshmen interested in .playing tennis this spring sh()uld meet with Coach Benson in the Gym at 4:30 on Monday, April 7. Don't let tile heights get you down. Lots of skiers, like lots of other people, are afraid of heights. Butyoucan minimize this natural-and healthy -fear if you\ll just remember one thing: Don't scare yourself. For instance, when you're ridir:~g the chair lift, don't frighten yourself by looking back down at the ground below. Just loof.< uphill. And, when you reach the top of the slope, don't stop and stare atthe tiny-looking build- ings and people at the bottom. Instead, just concentrate on the terrain immediately in front of you. You'll find you won't be thinking about heights anymore. And you'll findskiinga lot more fun. For the most reliable reports on ski conditions in the East, listen to \Ski ~eports by Roxy\ with ,Rcxy Rothafel, the voice of skiing. On V'I/GY Radio 810 in Schenectady-and on other stations througllout the Northeast. And on yoLJr next ski trip, be sure to enjoy Schaefer- the one beer \to have when you're having more than one. Schaef~r·Brewenes, New York and Albany, N.Y., 8alt•more, Md. · 0 n the first day of competitioll, Thursday, Union entered .a team in the 400-yard medley relay of Werlin, Burt Yankiver, Gary Needell, and Vin Sinatra. Th.e team was seeded 18th on ,the program on the basis of qualifying time, and finished close to that position, as a ·disappointing 3:52 . .1 7 clocking placed 1hem 20th. The 12th place time was 3:48.75. The only real' bright spot was Werlin 's unofficial time in his leg of the relay. He covered the distance in about 54.5 seconds, a time whicl1 would give him a good shot at the top 12 in the 100-yard butterfly, scheduled for Saturday. Before that, however, came the 200-yard butterfly, the first event Friday afternoon. Werlin was seeded 17th on the basis of his 2:08.6 in the state championships, his best for this season. ·Last season he .swam a 2:06.6 in the states, but couldn't duplicate that effo])t in the Dation als, held in Atlanta, Georgia. 'Fhis season, however, it appears that Werlin peaked just at the right time, as he covered the distance in 2:06.46 in the time trials, giving him the ninth best qualifying time of the afternoon, and placing him in the consolation finals that night. He palced third in that race, giving him ninth place overall, as the first six places were reserved for those in the championship finals. His time in the consolation was 2:05.47, again breaking his own college record for the event. The performance gave Union its first swimming All-American, and also its first points in national competition, as the ninth place finish put us on the board with four. -·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-._~·---·-· , T • 1 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and legcl 'Beverages 1 118-120JAYSTREET ~-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·---------, .... -- DOUBLE-BREASTED IN PERSPECTIVE The way we see it, the new enthusiasm for double-breasted suits must be channeled. Into correct natural shoulder styling, of course, with a lean, long look to the jacket. Into richer new fabrics, such as the one we picture. And into our premises, to be sure, to insure a double-breasted fit that keeps things in perspective. fJ l1 VOL.~ L.in I. ( )} ~ oop ,. J} J) Fall The Wit e v aluatio ,Line backe1 Concordien today. In a join r.vho design system for Neil S. Kr~ said there ''Condense t1 \We're goiJ complete excep the results string of Kramer sai< 1 Kramer three or f< trterms' coUI insert wiU starting AJ ,Jook like ~ but we're @ of studet question, 1 'lbf each re~ and stall! response tc ll!uosed abou Saltzma1 prepare an the evalua1 (,«flrinted w report. \T program sy there will \xplanatior each editio Saltzman s: !Jt Ex· Daniel engineerin@ responsib l it ) l c. ~his Ill'' vars1 ty tra:c to perfotn man in ,time-consu athlete,\ Director o:l The ha ~resent loc not condt addition, t 0 that they facilities t: track. \If shortly for 111to seek r petition tc action,\ st: ; Discussi Ed. Depa Professor 1 \lithe studen physical , Ketz, the inevitably \!!Who partie The 1 departmen ,.the spring the budge1 salaries expendituJ lftaquipment comprises supplies ~ advance c •)

1969 wam a the it just in the ninth ,the in night. t race, as ship the , again record first put us @ VOL. 98, NO. 37 SCHENECTADY,N.Y., APfll L 8, 1969 PRI:CE TWENTY CENTS ,~., linebacker and (onicordiensis. ExperimentinCoeducationCanceled } .Cooperate in Order to Distribute DuetoPaucityof Interested Females Fall U!nd W:inter (eurse Critiques was neces.a.y to make th_c week a ,I 'll Co-chairmen Mark Merson and \rneaningfal exoerunebl. \' All facets The WinteF and Fall term course opevation of the course evaluation Donald Kessler announced yesterday of the co-e<l week had' been organiZed. evaluations prepared by the whenSaltzmangraduatesthisJune. that plans for the \Ex.periment in The decisio. 1 to cancel: the week Linebacker staff will appear in Enough extra copies of the course Coeducation\ have been canceled due resulted solely from the imsufficient 'concordiensis, beginning a week from e val u at ion sup p 1 em en t s to to the lack of applicants necessary for number of applicants. today. Concordiensis will be printed so that conducting a meaningful experiment. At first, letters were V'lri tten to 28 In a joint statement, Bob Saltzman, they 'Can be distributed to next year's Less than 50 of 1,600 applications women's colleges inf(>rrutlg them of 1J •· r.vho designed the computer program freshman class, new faculty members, distributed were returned_ Kessler and the event. Applicatioll.s '\Jierre sent by system for the course evaluation, and and upperclassmen students returning Merson felt a minimum of 100 girls Union men to ac(Jua3ntances on Neil S. Kramer, Concordiensis edi.tor, from junkets to Vienna. said there would be no attempt to '· '~bon dense the data into written blurbs. )J \We're going to publish virtually the complete computer print-out. The exceptions will be some seminars, un ... v,,., .. dent studies, and theses, where the results are infinitesimal, or just a string of zeroes,\ Saltzman and Kramer said. To Begin April14 Kramer predicted it would take three or four weeks to publish both ~rterms' course evaluations. A four page insert will appear every Tuesday starting April 14. \It will probably ®' .Jook like stock exchange quotations, but we're going to include the number of students responding to each question, the percentage distribution JJ 'lbf each response, as well as the mean and standard deviation of each response to each of the 24 questions oosed about each course.\ 1 ' u Saltzman and Dick Daniel wiU prepare an extended explanation of the evaluation results, which will be :; (,«flrinted with each section of the report. \The Fall and Winter term program systems differ slightly, so that there will have to be a complete Extensive Support Blacks Hold Williams Building By L.S. FRIEDMAN Responding to the Williams College adrninistration,s failure to accede to all 15 of their non-n.egotiable demands, appfoximately 30 black students have been occupying Hopkins Hall adrnmistratiorr building since 3:30 a.m., Apfil5. Radio reports early today said tbat the students occupying the Williams Administration Building hac retuned it to the Administration. Hopkins Hall was left in good order. No further details were available. non-negotiable.\ Last Thursday, Williams President John E. Sawyer sent the Afro-American Society a letter in which the administratio11 agreed to all but two of the demands. Interpreting this as an \tmfavorable administration response,\ the blacks decided to act. The administration had expressed doubts regarding black housing in the cui tural Center. In addition, it questioned .the demand for the \addition of at least three African students on scholarship per year with special sensitivity towards students from the Southers Sudan.~' The letter also stressed that the administration had been acting on many of the demands, and it had already initiated an Afro-American Studies program. Furthermore, after consultation with the Society, a black dean of students was hired. students e~pressed tlteir support for the blacks' demands. The Williams College: Council passed a resolution s11pprorting the demands and pledging money for ''greater cultural diwersity.\ In addition Prospect House, ~·9i0 member living unit voted to gili'e $WOO to the Afro-American Society so that they can further their plans. :Bond To A:])pe;~r Jim Rubenstein, e!Li..to:r of the Williams R_ecord, said ill a telephone interview that the majority of the students and faculty are ~ehlnd the blacks. \I think,\ said Rubenstein, Hthat what wili come outoftllis\\olill be very good.\ He also noted that the black Georgia legislator Julirn llo nd will be at Williams this weelc., altl10ugh his visit is merely coincid.e!lital with the sit-in. women's camp11ses and to all who wrote asking for +I, em. Kessler a!ld Merson, finding this method for encouraging women to apply 10 thexperiment inefficient tried ~n alternative plan. Malloy Aided During Spring vacation Union men, ~cting as representatives of the co-ed committee, were sent to 20 women's campuses. A phone call from Dean Malloy's office, materials clearly defining the objectives and operation of the week and posters to promote the experiment preceded the arrival of ~ach representative. These representatives, however, were not well-receive d. Some a.dministrators were unwilling to support Union's experiment as a result of \bad experiences\ their students :llad encountered in similar programs. Other administrators said they would r-efuse permission to their students: to .a;ttend any more co-ed weeks this year. Too Little Time Along with the poor reception of these representatives Kessler and Merson attributed several factors to tJ1e small number of applicants. They ~It there was an insufficient amount of time to recruit effectively the ~pplican ts. Many women could not attend the week because it fell too close to their r.nidterm exams. Also, the idea ()f a ·co-ed week was not a new one. That t11e novelty of such a program had worn off caused women to be less 11nxious to apply to Union's expe:rimen t. !l \xplanation of the techniques used in each edition of the course evaluation,\ Saltzman said. \¥ ,It Extra Copies Available Daniel, a junior electrical engineering major, will assume primary responsibility for the computer The demands included \the establishment of an Afro-American Cultural Ce11ter ... \ which will have \residential facilities\ for blacks desiring to live there. Package Demands The demands were \presented as a 'package' in that not one item is to be rejected, revised, redefined or altered. These demands further are Classes Cancelled Classes for today and yesterday were cancelled so that \general sessions\ could be held t() discuss the situation with the student body. Between 700-800 students attended yesterday's meeting where the Graduati:n:g Seniors No Longer Exempt fr~o,m Most Final Exams; l (f , AngryTrackTeamPetitionsKetz; , RefuseBothRakingandRunning ) I . This morning, 36 members of the \arsity tra,\ck team, \incensed at having to perform the role of maintenance man in addition to the already ,time-consuming jobs of student and athlete,\ presented a petition to Director of Athletics Wilford Ketz. . The harriers complained that the ~resent locker and toilet fa.cilities \are not conducive to good health.\ In addition, they said it is totally absurd nthat they should have to prepare facilities by raking and wagging the track. \If no administrative action is shortly forthcoming, we will be forced 'll'to seek means in addition to this petition to aid in bringing :1bout such action,\ stated the petitionf.lrs. Ketz Speaks 'i Discussing the future of the Phys. Ed. Department Monday morning, Professor Ketz stated that \It is up to tWthe student to determine his need for physical education.\ According to Ketz, the role of the department is inevitably decided by the students \!!Who participate in it. The present budget of the department will remain unaltered for the spring term. Ketz explained that \the budget consists of two parts: staff salaries and student equipment expenditures (gym baskets and athletic By 'TONY BENINATI budget does not incfude expenses for inter-collegiate teams. To Expand lntramurals The Phys. Ed. staff is \hopeful.to e x.p and i ntramurals and el~ctlve progiarns \ said Ketz. He would hke to offer as broad a program as possible, tailcmd to meet the desires of interested students. When asked if student interest in physical education has diminished with. the advent of the new program, Ketz replied, \There has been no substantialturrt-in of baskets for the retu:rn of deposits.\ He added he will soon be taking a poll of daily basket usage to determine whether there has been a significant decline in the use of the department's facilities. \The future of the Physical Education Program is difficult to foresee,\ Ketz said, \but I am satisfied with this new program and confident that it will succeed.\ Ketz closed out 4-0 years of collegiate coaching when he took Union's indoor track team to the annual New York State Track and Field Associations Championships at Cortland. He coached the cross country team from 1931 to 1967, compiling a 95-94 record_ Lichterman Promises Enforcement RyALANMELL Seniors will no longer be: exempted from final exams outside their majors during the same teilll in \Which they talce their major field exillffiimations. The decision - to comJJel seniors taking the major field ex.amtination to also take final exams· vrhic:h goes into effect this term - was reac:hed at the last Faculty Counc:il meeting~ March 11th. Students taking the nnajor field exam w:ill still not have :to take finals for courses in their major_ N ierneyer Pmp~sal Deefeated At the same meeting; Professor Niemeyer proposecl that the \Sta teme.nt of Poli~)' on Final Examinati<ms,\ which siattes that all courses must include a final examination, be a:rnendecl to allow instructors to use their discretion in giving or not giving a fmal exam in a ;particltlar course. The motion was defeated, however, ~d so the rules will remain the same. Dean Uchterman said yesterday 1hat :although the rules have not been iechnically changed, there will be a .change in their impact. From now on, Jte ·said, \the rules will be enforced.\ Except in seminar and art courses, ~d in other courses which the odepartment head or dean of the center feels a fmal exam is not desirable, ::finals will be given. No Last Week Tests In addition, Uchterman said, all finals must be given during the week .designated as fmals' week. No tests, jncluding finals, may be given during the last week of classes. This rule, Lichterman said, is also an old <me, but no attempt had been made in the past to enforce it. Lichterman added it is up to the instructor to decide what form the final will take: a standard two-hour ex:am, an open book test, a tal<e-h.ome test or whatever other form the instructor wishes the exam to take. New Courses Approved ~quipment). Nearly 90% of the budget comprises expenditures for athletic supplies which are purchased well in advance of the school year. This •) Trackmen are used to doing what they do best and ·Professor ICetz is used to doing what he does best .. So 1et them· mn it aiUl him sh <JVef it. In other action, the Faculty Council approved the adclition ·of 25 new courses to the curriculum. The largest group was comprised of 14 studio art courses, which significantly expands the college's offering in that area. Also seven new courses in English social, legal, and economic history, and new courses in Black American literature, con temporary theol()gical ethics, U.S. colonial history, and an honors seminar in economics were added. l:Jnlo11 Book

PAGE 2 FA CU[ yy· RESPONSIBILITY The steadily-falling student response to the ''Linebacker~' course evaluations appears due to two limitations in the original scheme. First, studea ts felt that tile digcstio11 of the computer print-out into short blurbs that were.~ htrdly distinct from each other made the \\Liuebach~r~' pamphlet largely useless. Second, there was no provision for an evaluation of spring term courses. The impcn ding publication in \Concordien.sis\ of the complete Fall and winter term course evaluation responses, all I 00,000 of them, should provide the sbl.de11ts with· a body of information that they will find worthy of supporting with their computer-card conlrihutioas; But what aLout evaluating spriHg term courses? No evaluation was even attempted last spring because the ~tudents responsible for the course evaluatio11 had no opiJortunity such as registration at which t<J distriLute th~ necessary materials to all of the students. Attempting a course evaluation at registration the following atJtumn would not only forfeit the responses of all graduating: seniors, but also suffer from a summer~s obfuscation of each student's evaluation. But the e~.wrse evaluation is useful to the whol~ college community, not just the student body. The1:efore, the faculty ought to pass legislation that would allot a portion at the end of the final meeting of each class section to the distribution @ f the student prepared evaluatiorr. Classroom distribution uf the forms would in no important way effect the a1tonymity of the responding students, since each instructor would only handle the cards when he distributed them to the students. Each student would place his response cards in a package that would he sealed and returned' directly to the course evaluation staff at the Computer Center. The usc of twenty minutes classroom time for a course evaluation \:ould mean the loss of about one per cent of each instructor's exposure to his or her students. But the value to tl-..e whole college of an accurate and complete student feedback on the remaining 99 per cent of instruction would more than outweight the cost. As witl1 the fall and winter course evaluations, this newspaper will publish the results of the spring term evaluation and promptly mail it to all those enrolled at Union this term, to the incoming class, and, naturally, to the faculty and administration. The students responsible for the course evaluation have made an i11.formation systems engineering innovation requiring considerable imagination, skill, and effort. The preparatio11 of that data for publication has meant increased \VO rk. All that we ask of the faculty is that they allow the course evaluation into the classroom so that it can reach aJl of the students. The faculty is the only group on campus which has the power to make the course evaluation wholly viable. Concommi tant with that power is the resp(msibility to support valuable projects like the course evaluation. We susped that the causes of the recent mediocre student response to the \Linebacker\ would be eliminated hv the dissemination of all the data to the entire college c~mmunity and the guarantee of an evaluation of every course, every term. By progressively improving the scheme, the studPilts here have done all that they can to make the course evaluation successful. Will the faculty? \Those who make peaceful rev()lution impossible make viole-nt revolution inevitable.\ Publiah_ecl Tue-sday and Fraday dur· inc the school year by tho Student Body or UnlonCollege, Schen.,ctady. l'l. V. N8tiorul Advertisin& Repre• zentative: National Educallonal Adverti111n11 Service, Inc., College J'ubl1ahers Represtontativ~. J60 Lexington A'Y·e.,ue. N. Y, c. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union Colle&~. Publication Offlce, While_- hurst Print in& & Bindin& Co,, Inc .. 416-418 Fifth Ave., Troy. 235-~450. Entered in the Schenectady Post Olrice as Second Clasa Mail Matter. Subscription 20¢ ,. copy; $6 a year deliv~red anywhere in the United' State •· NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WILIJA.M OUZER CARL GOLDSAND Managing Editor Business Manager Initiation To the Editor: During my three years at Uni(m, I have read with interest articles, editmials, even blither, regarding the inconside rati<Jn, the lack of respect,_ and 1he selfishness occasionally displayed by fraternity members to others of the college community. The American ·Civil Liberties Union today called on college swdents engaged in campus demonstrations to return to peaceful, non-obstructive forms of protests warning that \violence and the threat of violence w-ill breed a counter-violence and backlash that will defeat or set back the very objectives student activities seek to serve and lead to ACLU Notes repressive counter-measures.\ At the same time the civil liberties organization criticized colleges and universities for stoking the fires of campus disc<mten t by refusing to consider student demands or involve students in the decision-making process. Condemns I>isruption The A:CLU policy statement was addressed to the presidents, APRIL 8, 1969 .,) heads of faculty councils and student governing hoclies and editors of campus newspapers al 350 leading colleges and universities. '* ' l! The ACLU statemen~ E condemns the physica1' , disruption employed :by students ' APHil ~ St Dr Jane Last Saturday night, the Kappa Alpha Society held its 184th initiation. Our ritual culminates with the singing of a short song outside the confi..nes of 1he house. This ceremony ~as considerably marred Satmday nig.ht by several gentlemen fr0m Davidson Hall, who took it upon themselves to assist us in our endeavors by hurling firecrackers. · C . s· . o,nsort•um e,m,•nar on pressing their claims, asserting the \to abandon th.~ democratic process in the interests of 'good causes' is to !I risk the destruction of freedom not Just f0r the present but rJr the future; not just for our social or.de r but for any social ·order at all.\ ~ c: perform~ Memor demonst the worl1 c At t I thank these gentlemen for their interest, but assure them th11t the beauty .of our ritual -was not enhanced by their efforts. Sincerely, James M. Malkin Secretary-K.appa Alpha Society The Capital District Council on Graduate Education in the Biological Sciences began a series of lectures on Current Problems in Neurobiology last night with a speech by M:arcus Singer of Western Reserve University. The topic was \The Axoplasmic Flow and the Myelin Sheath\. The series is sponsored by Albany Medical College of Union University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, The State University of New York at Albany, and Union College. The remaining lectures are: Apr. 21 -· Michael V.L. Bennett, Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University - \How an Elect:r.ic Fish Decides to Discharge Hs Electric Organ: A Simple-Minded Approach to Decision .ProiJlems\ - 8:00 p.m., Biology 248, State University of New York at Albany April 28 -- Leon Harmon, Bell Laboratories - Computers and Brains\ · 8:00 ,p.m., Huyck Auditorium, Albany Medical Center May 5 -- Jerzy Rose, University of Wisconsin - '~Neurophysiology of Hearing\ -8:00 p.m., Huyck In emphasizing that \ ... violence and the threat of violence\ will boomerang against I students, the statement run~ down a list of legislative measures at both the federal and state levels which seek to fore~ peace upon the campus. These range from heavy jail sentencet to the cutt-off of financial.a.id to students convicted of a crime itt! connection with campus disorder. concert, which h: ''\ of his Locatelli . from me With .-he ffiOVf opening technic a: ~very non·desc Starke ext:vao.rd ....------------------------..,.Auditorium, Albany Medical The ACLU syas, \We are opposed to these measure~~ Their imposition is not 'likely to quiet down but to inflame fur,ther the unrest. What is mor<-' 1 they threaten the traditional autonomy of academic commun Hies to govern themselves.\ r His s Sonata Franck. t5 WOlle V mediocn -The : CALENDAR Tuesday 8 - President's Open Forum, Old Chapel, 7:00 p.m.; Faculty-Student Bridge, Hale House Faculty Lounge, 7:45p.m.; Minerva Club, Reed Residence, 8:0() p.n. Wednesday 9 - Convocatiort., Memorial Chapel, 8:00 p.m., Dwight !.lacDonald, Author & Critic Thursday 10 - Film Haps, S.S. 16, 7:00 and 9:0.() p.m. (75 cents admission) \Cincinnati Kid., Friday ~11- Octavo Concert, Memorial Chapel, 8:00p.m.; Film Series, S.S. l~, 8:00 p.m. Sunday 13 - Organ Recital, Nemorial Chapel, 4:00 p.m., Hugh Allen Wilson Center May 12 -- Robert 0. Lisk, Princeton University ••Neuroendocrine Regulation of Reproduction\ - 8:00 p.m., Biology 248, State University of New York at Albany May 26 -- Carl Pfaffmann, Rockefeller University \Physi()logical and Behavioral Studies of the Sense of Taste\ · 8:00 p.m., Huyck Auditorium, Albany Medical Center The ACLU calls upon the academic community to fmd new ways for peacef\Q} ' 1 c Stu( for de: Under c o m m u n i c a t i o n a n .~ . .c decision-making pr0cedures · which are responsive to just demands that students expres!0 t\ achieve voh.mte Student Poll on Grading Revision Finds Majority Favor a Big Change and wi .If ._ same l 'II 1 l commie assemb George Hayman, '71, is Chairman ()f the StUllents P:ass-Fail Committee. In C()njunction with his wotk on t!Iat committee he conducted a poll designed to gauge stu.<lent opinio11s on several gr11ding plans. His rep()rt follows: I have just fmished taking the Student Pass-Fail Commit1ee's poll on the grading system. I showed 300 students the following proposals and a.sked each to tell rha which one he like best: 1) Leave the grading system as it is. ' 2) Palmer-Lichterman hoposal: Student tells the Registrar which courses he vvants to take pass-fail. At the end term the Registrar changes the piofessor's grade to pass or fail· for the student's report card, but he enters the grade uncha.nged into the student's perm!l11ent record. 3) Shin agel Proposal: Unlimited pass-fail o\ltside major. Twelve point scale(/\., A-, 3+, B, B-, C+, C, C-, D+, D, D-, F) in major. 4) Unlimited Pass-Fail P'roposal: Student decides which ~-ourses if any he wants to take [>ass-fail. Professor g;rades a..ccorcling to student's wishes. P'ermanent record indicates pass or faiL 5) The Student's Pa~;S·Fail Committee: At the end of the term the professor will sublllit a t-wo to three paragraph summary ()f each student's performance. 'fhe summary will be sent home t<J parents and will be put ()fl the student's permanent record. rhere will be no grades, no cumulative index, no flunlcing out. The results were: 1 ) 25. 2) 40, 3) 88, 4) 56,. .. 5) 92. Four students refused to make a c:hoice; Instead they thought up or watered-down versions of one of the five. My methods for taking the poll were rather simple. I set a goal of 300 students, a number large enough to be meaningful, but small enough to be practical. I then asked students to read the proposals abo'Ve and to tell me which proposal they liked best. For the mo:st part I polled students in the library, although a few of the votes were from West College dining hall and from the Rath:skeller. I chose the library because it is the only place on cam]JUS where a wide range of students ever gather long enough to read something like this prepeily. I rejected West College quite soon because it seemed to me that the students weren't giving the poll the kind or amount of though necessary. The results were unexpectedly favorable. Of the students polled 13.3 per cent voted for some sort of change, while 80 per cent voted for No. 3, No. 4, and No. 5, the proposals which call for substantial change. I should point out here that No. 5 led all the way l>y a slim but comfortable margin until the last fifty votes when the Shinagel proposal surged. It is obvious from the poll that a substantial majority of the students (61%) prefer one of these two proposals. The general reaction to the poll tb.en is that students want a change, a substantial change, and an equitable change. Most of the students I polled gave the matter a lot of thought and made inielligent choices. I tried not to influence anv Acme Barber Shop <t compromise of their own between No. 3 and N(). 5. Several students ·· l didn't keep track ·- didn't vote at aiJ and didn't bother to think up ·!l11other proposal. Generally I discouraged any original proposals on the grounds that , most of them were compromises 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to- Uni.on College Students student's vote except to agree strongly when one agreed with me. I know I lost many votes by not electioneering, when I should have. I should apologize for two things. Fiist it was pointed out by a reliable source that I had slanted the meaning of the Palmer-Lichterman proposal, so that mine is :an innaccurate paraphrase of the actual proposal. I must admit I have always been baffled by the reasoning and the ideas behind the proposal (as were many of the students polled). Unfortunately my reliable source was unable to make the proposal any clerer to me; so I don't feel that my misrepresentation lost it any votes. Second I would like to apologize for the name of the committee. It is a misnomer. We no longer advocate pass-fail or any other kind of grades, but since the name is firmly imprinted in the minds of 3 00 students, the name will remain the same. Now 1:hat the poll is public the Student Pass-Fail Committee Now's The Time To MARRY ME Spring catches a young man's fancy- Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graub art & Sons Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Serving Union for 3 generations. has another proposal. We now call for a general meeting .of ths student body in SS 016 sometime in the coming weeks. There will be a panel discussion . and a forum. The panel wili consist of advocates of all the proposals. Deans Lichterman . and Palmer, and Prof. Shinagel : · will be invited to represent thei~ proposals and hopefully they • will attend. Mr. Schmidt, the · Registrar \Vill also be invitedl> i Mrs. Hruvey and I will represent ; . our proposaL Further details will : appear in Concord.y and ' elsewhere when the fin~ arrangements have been made .. Please be thinking about your ideas on the grading system ane ' please attend the meeting. So far · the committee has been one woman's ideas (Mrs. Harvey's) and ohe man's labors with a fe\V. sympathizers. If you want to help with the arrangements for the meeting or anything else. contact me, George Hayman~ 113 Davidson, 346-9212 or 372-1519, or else volunteer your services to Mrs. Harvey in Hl~ 113. DIAMANTE'S 1 Enjoy Ou; Fin& Home ! Cooked Italian Focd in Our1 Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate r:& on Nott Street Open. Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. ~ Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE A.T 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at HoHie Street) DRY Cli:ANING WASHERS 8 Lbs. ______ .: ____ $2.00 12 Lb. __ ---------_ 4lb.Min, ________ LOO 20Lb. ___________ _ DRYERS 30 lb. ___________ _ 1\0 Min. ~. ~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .I 0 OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00 A.M. TO 9:00 P.M. SATURDAY 8:00 A.M. TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS) IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DOt-IE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED ) .25 > .35 .50 Admiss \<- Mark G Athleti t1.1 Campo Yelton Compr oc Valenti It ({' Discip]j Daws01 ForeigJ Gradu~ Honorl Kent, Gilber1 Honor1 Stillm~ ~' Liaiso11 «. Lecturj Libraf) Religio Securit Standb Potenz. tt College Glanw Drugs: 11 Comp. Comp. Comp. <J Comp. Critchl \ Thet every Succes « with A1 p.m. at Stud opportl ~ the Yc breathil there \\ instruc1 •)'

IL 8, 1969 APRIL 8, 19ti9 1! r: uncils and and (// al and Sta:r.ker P,lays ~Brillian'tly; Draws Standin:g Ov~ation, E physica'l' , by students ' claims, th~ By L.S. ·FRIEDMAN in the is to r, freedom · but fcli our social order at ~ that threat of against rnent run~ legislative federal and to fore~ These sentence~ to crime til campus \We are r ' measure~~ ()t 'likely to i · inflame is mor<-' 1 traditional academic o govern upon the to fmd peacef'Q} ' on an~ procedures · to just expres!0 'II ' We now eting .of th~ ss 016 weeks. discussion panel wii · of all the Lichterman of. Shinagel : · theill they • the · be invitedl> i represent ; . r details will : and 1 the fin~ been made .. your system an~ ' eting. So far · been one s. Harvey's) with a fe\JZ. want to for ything else. Hayman~ or lunteer your in Hl~ 1 ! in Our1 Room Gate r:d c A.M. ~ 1 A.M. j) eet) .25 > . 35 .50 Janos Starker gave a c: performaNce last evening in Memorial Chapel which demonstrated why he is among the world's foremost cellists. c At the beginning. of the concert, he removed the stand which had been placed in front ,,. of his chair, and played' Locatelli's Sonata in D Major . from memory. With intense concentration, • he movecl through the delicate opening move!llent with superior technical style. The Adagio was very warm, while the ~ non-descl!ipt Menuetto allowed Starker t:o display his ext:vaordinary ability. Mediocre Franck His sec()nd offering was the Sonata in E Major by Cesar Franck. For ,the most part, this 5 wo1k was little better than mediocre Romanticism. - The allegretto ben moderato was well-played', ctlthough the music was incm:t.ch.lsive at best. In the Allegro :movement, the piano accompaniinent was rathet p<lnderous. Starker sh(:)wed excellent control! in 111 .. e Recitative--Fant~ia., as he saved the movement from becoming sen tiltlental sbp. The final Allegretto poco Mosso was the best section, and was very reminiscent of Franck~s best work, his SymphCJny in D Minor.; A First-R~ate Artist Overall,. the Franck piece lacked the W!IEDth of i!he· Locatelli, but t~s -was not the fault of the artisL Although this Ieviewer was unable .to remain for the second half of the ped&rmance, was apparent that St~rker was having a first-rate eveiJing, and the audience was .ffideed most appreciative. Students are appointed by the President on recommendation for deans, faculty members, and student govem:rnent officers. Under the new organization of student gove:rni11ent, if it ;is or achieved tlrls spring, a committee will solicit and receive volunteers for joint faculty-student-administrati{;)>n committees and will present a list of recommendations to the :President. The t same procedure will be used fm faculty appointments to committees, the Center Deans being the intermediaries for assembling recommendations to the President. Student Members of College Committees Admissiolls: Donald Bentrovato, Victor Brown, Ennest Dellheim, \<. Mark Goldstein Athletics: Craig Carlson, Ronald McAvoy t1J Campus Development: John Anes, Kenneth Ko eland, Everett . Yelton Comprehell.sive Education Board: David Pitt:inos, Edward l{ Valentine « Discipline: Craig Baumer, Edward Buzak, George Cushing, William Dawson, Nicholas Dzebolo, Russell Manker ForeignStlldy: Donald DeMichele, Lawrence Spivack Graduate Study: Douglas Hatch, Michael Klayman It Honorary Degrees & Special Events: Raymond Belliotti, Robert Kent, Michael Klayman, Paul E. Nurick, Robert G. Oneglia, Gilbert Palen, Steven Racllauer, Stephen Siegler, Poeter Van Lund Honors: Robert Heine, Edward Jerome, Robert ·Killian, Abbott Stillman ~' Liaison: Donald DeMichele, Robert Saltzman Lectures & Concerts: James McCarthy, Allen RoWe Library; Nicholas Cava, Vern L. Syverson ll. Religious Activities: Steven A. Cole, Ross Fraser, Freli Levy Security & Safety: Richard Kramer, Charles Moss,lpeter Smith Standing of Students: Arthur McCabe, William !11unno, Vito Potenza College Center: Robert J. Burwick, Ross Fr-aser, Stephen tt Glanzrock, Robert Killian, Neil Kramer, A. Richard Susko Drugs: Richard Balagur, Myron FJibush, ·Michael Le:vin-Epstein u Comp. Ed. Freshman Year: Jeffrey Stall, Michael F_ Spencer Comp. Ed. Options: M. Bryant Burroughs, NicholaS- I>zebolo Comp. Ed. Junior Projects: Jeffrey Knetzer, Micha~l Keesee <J Comp. Ed. Disputed Questions: James Stillinan, Richard Critchlow t; Yoga Classes Offe,red \- There will be Yoga Lessons every Sunday for Eight Successive Weeks, Beginning with April 13, from 1 p.m. to 4 ~. p.m. at Old Chapel. Students will be given the opportunity to learn how to do t~ the Yoga. postures and correct · breathing, how to Meditate; there will be some. Chanting and instruction in the pbAosophy of Yoga. It represents a uniq11e educational experience at Union. Participants ~ill be aske<l to contribute $2.00 per session . Those attending should wear loose, comforta.ble clothes and bring a blankeL Students from Skidmore have been inviied to attend these clas.ses. Thank you. Through the Looking Glass Floatin:g Downth·e Mo:hawk By BILL OUZER Authorities close to the Geology Building today announced that Uni()tl C0llege will slip into the Mohawk River sometime within the next month. President Harold :Martin said he thought the College had the requisite academic reputation arrd financial strength to fight off the quake that might drop it in the Mohawk. The large shipment of styrofoam arrived on campus yesterday in an attempt to keep the college afloat in the event of a geological catastrophe. Martin said, \In the shape we are in styrofoam won't be enough- we cannot float alone.\ Union, which had been impervious to goings on in the underground for most,()fit's 175 years, expressed shock and dismay at the prospect of a future in the river. Members of one fraternity said they had reason to believe the waters would par.t allowing the college to cross but authorities said they could not count on this. Conversely, a member of the English department said that following his lead we could walkacross the water. The Bio department said they were ready with a Ph. ]) program in the Marine Sciences and an alumni 'cGntributed a large inner tube to be placed around the campus and to be kept inflated by moving the offices of the Poll Dept towithin its confmes. The Student Senate complained that they were not consulted, and Harold Martin expressed concern of having to worry ab()ut two more banks. Experts predicted that after impact the college would not float upright but have about a 20 degree list to the right. This would be corrected by taking a larger number of black students each year. Some suspected that fraternities have long known about the .slide as they have been stockpiling paddles for years. This they said would surely put fraternities in the mainstream of college 'life. SOme thought Union could do better than the Mohawk and siad we were in a class with the Hudson or the Delaware. A few conjectured that once in the Mohawk if we drifted we might be faced with the dilerrma of the Atlantic Ocean and whether we should be a fresh or salt water schooL But~ f()r once, something here at Uniort will be decided by a landslide_ BL-ITHER PAGE 3 International Relations Hosts World P:erspecfives Nigeria and Czechoslovakia, two of the most emotional international issues of the past year, will be highlighted this ' term by the International Relations dub Conflict Series. The Nigerian situation will be discussed April 10 by Moses Ihonde, vice- consul of Nigeria, and April 17 by Dr. John Amazigo, president of the Albany Chapter of the Biafran Association. To add a new perspective to the Czechoslovakian question, representatives of the governments of Yugoslavia and Poland will present differing views of Soviet relations with Eastern Europe. The Polish government will ~ be represented by Gregory,. Wazniak, information officer, while the Yugoslavian view will be offered by Dr. Josip Pr,esburger, Consul General. J~oth men will be coming in late A.pril or early May. In addition to the conflict issues, the club will sponsor a conference on Latin America for high school students May 7, and will close the year with an outdo or symposium on ~erican foreign policy. Student Senate to Meet; Elections to be Discussed The new Student Senate will hold its first meeting 11mrsday, April 10 at 7:15 p.m. in Social Science 115. According to Rusty Manker, president of the Senate, approximately 25 of the 42 living units have reported election of their representatives. Manker hopes that in addition to organizing under the new constitution and setting election dates, the Senate will begin work on several current issues. He would like to see the Senate \beat the faculty\ in developing a suitable proposal dealing with the grading system. In addition Manker hopes the Senate will question whether a student who receives financial aid should be permitted to own and operate a car an campus, and what the status of AFROTC at Union should be. 40 Men Transfer Expected At VassarForl969-1970 The foHowing is reprinted Student wives interested in joining the Student Wives Association of Union are invited to attend a meeting at 7:30 p.m. A.pril 9 in the Hale House Student Lounge. Refreshments will be served. • from the Vassar Miscellany experience has gainedmastery of News of March 7, 1969. admissions board at Yale is in agreement V{ith this procedure. Of the exchange students presently enrolled at Vassar, at least twelve have expressed a desire to continue their education here. Permanent transfer to Vassar is not automatic for these students; they must reapply under the regular admissions plan. Only sophomores are at present eligible to remain for another year at Vassar, but steps are being taken to secure the right for Vassar to grant degrees to men from New York State. Mr. Kleinkau.f, newly appointed Director .()f Safety and Security will speak at the President's Open Forum tonight at 7 p.m. in Old Chapel. The Literary Discussion Group will meet at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. The poe tl)' section will meet in the Social Sciences ;Building and will be conducted l>y Mrs. Harvey; the prose section will meet in the Humanities Buildin.g and be conducted by Professcn Freund. Yoga classes will be held every Sunday, for the next eight weeks from 1 to 4 p.m. in Old Chapel. Participants are asked to hring $2 per session, wear loose clothing and bring a blanket. Instruction will include Yoga postures, correct breathlng, meditation, some ch.anting, and .the philosophy of Yoga. Students from Skidmore have been invited. Applications for all positions on the Student Tax Co:rurnittee are now available in the Student Activities Office. Completed applications are due Friday. College Proficiency Exams will be given May 21 and May 22. Application date is April18. The purpose of the tests is to make college credit available to the individual who through ''non-campus\ study or Phone 372·()528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall - One Block from the Ce~mpus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. a college level subject. The fee is $15 and further information may be obtained by writing to: College Proficiency Examination Program, New York State Education Department, Albany, New York 12224. Applications for all positions on the Student Tax Committee are now available in the Student Activities Office. Completed applications are due Friday. Photographers are needed for Concotdiensis. If interested contact Jody Saslow, 346-9491 .. Photographers are needed for Concordiensis. If interested .contact Jody Saslow, 346-9491. The Class of 1972 will sponsor a mixer with Green Mountain College April 12 in Alumni Gym beginning at 8 p.m. Live rmsic will be provided by \The Stop\. Admission will be one dollar for men, free for women. The Campus Religious Counc:il is currently holding its annual Book and Clothing Drive. Deposit boxes are in all major buildings around the campus. Books and clothing for both adults and children are needed. The World University Service ships the material overseas. The Drive ends on Friday. ·-·-·-·-·· THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and 1-Jutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. by Julie Zafren Richard D. Stephenson, director of male admissions, said that a limited number of male transfer students can be expected for next semester. Mr. Stephenson estimated the number of probable transfers to Vassar to be about forty students at the most, but noted that plans for the admission of transfers are still in their formative stages. Vassar intends to recruit students mainly from two-year institutions but will accept students with outstanding academic backgrounds applying f r o m o the r four-year institutions. In addition to continuing exchange programs with Colgate and Trinity, Vassar will participate in the Ten College Program, exchanging students from Haverford. Numerous requests have been received from Yale students who would be interested in attending_ Vassar for one or two semesters. Mr. Stephenson said that a possible arrangement with these students could be arranged if the VROOMAN'S Beer- Grocieries Cold Cuts Magazines- Pastry 200 Nett Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 FR 7·9834 Down to Louis', let us go, l~t the lager freely flow. Next semester's exchange and transfer students will all be upperclassmen. No freshmen are to be admitted until 1970, and male-female parity will not be reached until 1975. To accommodate the incoming male students, the number of female admissions for next semester will be slightly reduce d. Housing for male students will continue similarly to this semester, with the utilization of specific corridors in C()educational dorms for male students. Exact details of housing arrangements have not yet been formulated for next semester. JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NI.CHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 111-th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 ,'' 1,: J•

Concordy PAGE 4 Depth Tough Foes :Make Lax a Question Mark By BRUCE GARBER AND HENRY FEIN Improved competition, personnel losses, and a general lack of depth may spell trouble for the 1969 Garnet lacrosse squad. While the club should finish above .500, a number of question marks remain. Posting a 9-3 record last year, Coach Bruce Allison faces the sa.rne competitive schedule this spring, only this time he is witho1:1t eleven graduating seniors. Compounding this situation is the 'loss of five stalwarts who have gone to Vienna this term; starters Steve Ciesinski and Ron Wall, and reserves Frank Donnini, Frank Felts, and Art Munkenheck. Three Sophs Lost Three highly rated sophomores also will not play for the Garnet this year. Wayne Cristie, super scoring sensation for last year's frosh, suffered complications of an apedectomy before vacation and probably will not be ready until very late in the season, if at all this year. Attackman Ken Lorenze did not go out tills year for personal reasons, while middle Ned Dukehart, expected to help provide much-needed depth at this weak spot, has left school for academic reasons. In addition, middle Pete Brittin and goalie Andy Bittker could not participate for academic reasons. Both were expected to hold down starting spots tllis season. Captains Don DeMichele and Bruce Westby, who was the top scorer last spring with 19 goals and two assists, are looking for added strength frorn sophomores Bruce Dugan, a nlidfielder, Dan Gould, a defenserna.n, and Ed Greene, who will man the goal. Along with DeMichele and Gould on defense will be junior Kevin Monahan, who developed into a fine player last season. John Rockwell and Steve Bauer will accompany Dugan as the primary middles, with Rich Swan, Jim Sabella, and Steve Herrick as the second line. Junior Doug Duval will be Westby's main partner at the attacl< spot. Open Tomorrow at Middlebury The season gets under way tomorrow at Middlebury, with an . away match with Stevens slated for Saturday. The following Wednesday, the stickmen host powerful Hobart in tl1e home opener. The Statesmen, who are favored to take the ICAC crown, are led by Fr<mk 13oyer, who was top scorer in the nation last year. Hobart has looked extremely strung in spring practice, most recently with an 18-7 rout of the Syracuse Lacrosse Oub. Sports APRIL 8, 1969 VOL 91 ~. ', ~At ~::'~NE .I) iJI I 11 11 ' »' ,. I, f). i. ' . I • In the Senate forty-t represent In hi Manker, J he was rr a than qua to MankE to see wh • Secret c President their suq attendanc I Victm discussed t: Festival \The pUJ said, \i! '( communi show the: Amon \ the wee fashion sl In ad' t African v field hot Erown e' college a (; and desire A rna committe o se le cti: Faculty-~ entertaim Coach Allison expects his toughest competition from the preniaUy rough Syracuse, Cortland, and Hobart. Colgate, RPI, and greatly improved Trinity and Middlebury will also strongly test the Garnet stickmen. A STUDY IN CONCENTRATION: Lacrosse Coach R. Bruce Allison during Saturday's rain-soaked scrimmage .against Williams College. Ill : fl. appeared system ~ the optic College c< Allison faces one of his greatest challenges in moulding a winning squad this year. Personnel losses due to trips abroad hospitalization and academic ineligibility have robbed the team of much-needed depth. The stickmen open tomorrow at Middlebury. ' ' Strong points f()r the laxmen look to be defense and attack. Altho11gh Greene has limited experience and may have trouble in the early going, the experienced and able defensemen in front of h.im shoud stifle many opposition scoring threats. Though perhaps not as strong as last year's potent attack, Westby and Duval should provide a more-than-adequate scoring punch. F()l' the sec(}nci year, however, midfield is the big question mark. If the Garne1 middies can perform well, they may cement a strong winning squad. Weakness here, however, could make for a very long spring for the laxmen. Intra Standings · D. Pili D.U. Eetas Phi Gam Phi Sig Delt Chi Psi Phi Sig Kap Independents PhiEp Theta Delt Sig Chi Phi Delt K.A. D. Clti Sig Phi Alpha Delt Psi U. 589.980 584.738 555.725 504.971 503.950 486.207 465.154 461.646 459.806 428.566 425.373 422.619 320.197 299.511 279.184 274.445 267.731 D Phi Takes Hoop Title Championships in intramural Handball crown. On the winning handball and bowling have moved the squad were Gary Aitken, Kent Wiley, Independents from 17th to eighth and Ken Lang. place in the intramural race. Delta With a 63-52 win over D. U. in the Phi snatched the lead spot from the finals, Delta Phi captured the Betas with a triumph in the intramurfi hoop crown. Beta finished basketball race over D. U., who also third, while Chi Psi, Phi Sigma Delta, moved ahead of the Betas in the . and the Independents shared the year's standings. fourth spot. The bowling championship was The Spring Term intramural gamered by the Independents in a program gets under way this 2820-2535 victory over Delta Chi. afternoon wi1h the All-College Dick Marchant led the victors with a swimming meet. The softball races 643 triple, while Gary Prevost will begin within the next two w~eks. chipped in with a fine 577 series. A1 Case, Tom Benedict and Don Hovey also bowled for the victors. With a triumph over Phi Sigma Delta in the flnal match, the independents also captured the 1969 .~ ... ·~~.,. .... , ...... \\ ....... ~ TAKE OUT SERVICE ~ • Hot D.ogs ·Hamburgs ~ Hot Meals • Fish Fries ~ ~ ~ ~ CAVALIERS ~ ... . e Open Monday thru Friday ... ~ 6 A.M. - I A.M. ~ -. Friday ond Saturday e 6 A.M. - 4 A.M. I ~ Corner Erie Blvd, ~ ... & Jefferson St. e ! Phone346-9'153 ., .... ,. .... ,. .... , ........... ,. .. ,. - __ ,. - Boulevard Bowl r·-·-·-·-·-·-·, • • 1 I • • I The dead line for I • • 1 Seniors' cap and gown 1 • measurements is May 1, • I I • 1969, at the Campus • 1 Bookstore. 1 1 I • • 1-··-·-·-·-·-·-1 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian- American Food 112!i BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjor Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bor Union College Old Chapel Thursday, April 10, 1969 12 Noon to 8 P.M. ,.: ,_ ~ Walter results o Contest .. of the fr{ living uni the drive. Nig~ Dis1 While children 1 the symJ rebels i children staying 11 rooms in Moses Nigerian York Ci1 ' point of his cour Intemati< Old Chai night. Thond America federalist: an inter \ observers attempt troops, he The B: ' their frie1 over $10 \which : behavior starving c The f resorted '· gain Ame did not countryrr ~· misguide

8, 1969 Founded at Union College 1877 VOL 98, NO. 38 , ·Attendance Heavy As ·, , New Senate Convenes 'l) (f I • By TONY BENl~ATI c In the first meeting of the Student Senate yesterday. Forty out of forty-two living unHs were represented. In his opening remarks, Rusty Manker, President of the Senate, noted he was more interested in \qualitative a than quantitative results.\ According to Manker, the Senate \is a trial gro1:1 p to see what students can do.\ Manker discl0sed that student body elections will be held during the fourth week of this term. Any students interested in working on the Election Committee shmlld contact: John Castellani: 346-9344 John Thromoulous: 346-9269 Bill Dawson: 377-0182 Ed Buzak: 372-9759 Craig Baumer: 346·9973 Jay Blitzman: 372-8127 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., APHIL 11, 1969 Orpheus and Smokey Robinson and the Miracles will be featured. on Spring Weekend, April 25 .and 26 .. Combination tickets for both: performances for $8 a couple and single tickets for the Smokey Robinson performance for $3.50 per person a·re on sale in dormitories, fraternities and the . Student Activities office. The Orpheus concert will be in Memo rial Chapel. Smokey Rob ins on will appear in the Fieldhouse. PRICE TWENTY CENTS Fourth :Fio,or Sou·th Offered; to e·lacks By BRUCE H. HUSTEN Negotiations between the administration and Black A1liance have resulted in plans that will give the college's Black students the option of living in a designated area of their own or continuing to live with White students in the dormitories and fraternities. Beginning in September, Un.ion 's Black students will have preference in signing up for a room on the fourth floor of South college. Malloy Gives Consent Dean of Students Edward J. Malloy said the Black Alliance has been given administrative consent to the proposal. He emphasized, however, that \Blacks will not be required to live on the floor. We expect that several of them will continue to live in fraternities or in the other dormitories.\ • Secretary Ed Rundell and Vice President Don Kessler also expressed their surprise and satisfaction with the attendance. New Left Puzzles Macdonald Victor E. Brown, Jr., president of the 13-member Black Students Alliance, said all of the Black students approved of the proposal, alth<mgh some have already announced .their intentions not to live on the designated floor. 11 ' IJ>' t')' i, ' , I s College. Ill • It ' ill: ail Bor \ c Black Arts Scheduled Victor Brown of the Black Alliance discussed plans for the Black Arts t: Festival scheduled for May 16-17. \The purpose of the festival,\ Brown said, \is to Feach out into the '( community and student body and to show them something of Black Art. Among the activities planned for .: the weekend are poetry readings, fashion shows, seminars, and a play. In addition, a life-size model of an t Mrican village will be displayed in the field house to depict Black Culture. Brown expressed his desire to get the college and the community involved, (; and desired Senate support. A motion to \set up a student committee to study the procedure for o selecting students for the Faculty-Student Committees\ was entertained. More than one student ll appeared dissatisfied with the present system which gives President Martin the option of choosing members of all College committees. r. ~ Blood Beer Awarded Walter Spencer announced the results of the October Blood Drive Contest. Phi Delta Theta is the winner of the free keg of beer awarded to the living unit donating the most blood to the drive. Dwight MacDonald, describing himself as .an old \Trotskyite -anarchist\ noted at Wednesday's Convocation he is \sympathetic with the New Left because I'm from the Old Left, but the activities of radical students like those at San Francisco State College are rejecting the only culture that we have. \And although there may be problems with white, bourgeois culture, the new generation hasn't produced a non-white, non-bourgeois culture to replace it.\ Dwight MacDonald as seen from the New Left Nigerian Claims Mass Media Distort Biafran War Reality While photographs of starving children hav~ been manipulated to win the sympathy of Americans for the ' rebels in breakaway Biafra, the children of the Biafran leaders are staying in \air-conditioned hotel 11 rooms in European capitals.\ Moses Ihonde, vice consul at the Nigerian federal consulate in New York City, explained the federalist ' point of view toward the civil war in his country to a Union-Skidmore International Relations Club group at Old Chapel on the Union campus last night. Mass Media Thonde blamed the mass media in America for unfairly charging the federalists with genocide. According to an international team of military \ observers in Nigeria, there has been no attempt at genocide by the federal troops, he said. , The Biafran military leadership and their friends in this c.ountry have spent over $10 million for public relations, \which seems to be contradictory behavior for a land With millions of starving children,\ Ihonde said. The federal government has not resorted to using the mass media to ''· gain American sympathy because they did not want to smear their own countrymen. \We are fighting against ~· misguided Nigerians, not· foreign enemies,\ Ihonde said. That is why this is the first war where one protagonist, the federal government, has tried to feed the other side, he added. \Nigeria was the stronger of the two and could afford to take (strategic) risks in order to save civilian lives,\ Ihonde said, and he described at length the attempts of the federal government to ship food into Biafra under the auspices of the International Red Cross. Truce periods were arranged to allow the shipment of food by air, a ten mile wide \mercy\ corridor was promised, but each attempt by the federalists to limit the suffering of the civilian population within the breakaway region was scotched by the Biafran leadership. Political Capital Ihonde said that the Biafrans wanted to make international political capital out of their suffering, so that international sympathy for their starvation would become sympathy for the political aims of the rebels. \We are surprised that Amelica, which defended its unity at a crucial moment in its history, does not understand the desire of the Nigerian federal government to remain united,\ he said. Mr. MacDonald, political columnist for Esquire magazine and critic, spoke about New Left to an audience ofless than 100. \The Old Left was more academic,\ Mr. MacDonald said, \but the New Left believes in more action. I think a library is a sacred, holy place. To them, it is a symbol of the Establishment. We were obsessed with history. They seem never to have heard of it.\ Mr. MacDonald said he could not fathom the \adoration\ the New Left has for Castro's Cuba, Ho Chi Minh's Vietnam and Mao Tse Tung's China. \'Why don't they look to the Soviet Union as a contrast to the bourgeois United States?\ he asked. \The great thing about the Soviet Union is that since the death of Stalin, it has become more bourgeois and things have gotten better for the masses.\ Old Left Rejected FOR The tactics of the New Left puzzle MacDonald. To him \it seems that the New Left is imitating its enemies.\ MacDonald stated, \We of the 01<;1 Left rejected both FDR and Stalin but we kept on looking for something new rather than settling for Hitler. Contrasting the two different wars that have drawn the attention of the Old and New Leftists, Mr. MacDonald finds a \double standard\ toward killing. \During World War II, FDR's saturation bombing and insistence on an unconditional surrender, which prolonged the war and cost many lives, taught us that bad means corrupt good ends,\ he pointed out. EVALUATION The Middle States Evaluation team will conduct an examination of Union College academic policy next Sunday through Wednesday. Under the direction of Dean Cavin Linton of George Washington University, the nine-member team will review the entire college network, including the library, student personnel services, relationships within the college and ties with units outside Schenectady, administration, finance, and institutional planning and the social science, humanities and science and foreign language offerings at Union. The members of the team will each have assignments of particular areas in the college to cover but will be free to investigate on their own. An extensive self-study of the college has been prepared in advance of the team's arrival. The study has been made available to faculty members and will be turned over to the team. \It has been 10 years since Union has been looked over by a team of competent professionals,\ Martin remarked, \We all stand to gain a great deal by being informative and entirely open.\ \But the New Left goes out of its way to point out American atrocities in the Vietnam War, and largely ignores the tactics of the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese,\ he said. \Our genocide is a sorry-about-that, absent minded genocide, where we just kill people who wander under om bombs.\ The New left hat their ()Wn country so much, though, that they are blind to the truth of the enemy's calculated barbarities in Vietnam, MacDonald added. Dwight MacDonald as seen from the Old Left Brown said the Whites to whom he has revealed the plan reacted coolly_ \-\lhites Are Cool \At first they didn't like the idea,\ he said, \but as they heard more about it and realized the floor would be neither closed to them nor required for us, they changed their opinions a little.\ Tile only apparent problem with the plan at this stage is what to do with the entering Negro freshmen. The admissions department is attempting to increase the number of Black students at the college and next year there are expected to be at least twice as many Negroes as there are now. Alliance to Contact Frosh Brown said the Black Alliance will probably con tact the entering Negro freshmen during the summer and give them the choice of signing up for a room on the designated floor or integrating with the White freshmen in all the dormitories. Malloy would not confirm this, however, and said that as he understands the plan, the entering Negro freslunen will live together with the entenng White freshmen in the allocated dormitories. \As far as I know, the designated floor will be for Black upperclassmen only,\ Malloy said, \for the Negroes at Union now.\ Conference on Birth Defects Came From Comp Ed Project Union and the National Foundation-March of Dimes will co-sponsor a Youth Conference on Birth Defects and Genetics at 10 a.m. Saturday, April 12, in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building. The program is designed to acquaint young people with the problem of birth defects, which involves about 250,000 American babies each year, and to foster interest in health careers. Among the spealcers will be Dr. Ernest Hook, assistant professor of pediatrics at Albany Medical College and research physician at the New York State Birth Defects Institute; and Dr. Paul Day, a Syracuse pediatrician. Students to Participate Robert M. Krauss and Steven N. Taylor, student1. at Union who are doing a Comp. Junior project on birth defects, will also participate in the program. Part of the studentis project is to better inform the public on birth defects and the importance of prenatal care. Art Medici of Rochester and Mark Conti of Olean, co-teenage chairmen for the National Foundation-March of Dimes ir1 New York State, will chair the ali-day session. The program is open to the public, with special emphasis being placed on faculty and students from Capital District high.schools and colleges. Although primarily intended for this group conference directors also hope to attract a large number of professionals in Health Science, Health Education and Family Life Studies. Following the day long session participants will be conducted on a special guided group tour of Catllpus buildings and facilities. A reception is planned at the home of Dr. hnold Purdett. On the following Monday, April 14th, Dr. James Purcell, noted specialist in Internal Medicine, and Dr. James Cunningham, a professional psychiatrist will speak on \Alcohol and its Effect on your Body,\ in SS 016 at 7:30 PM.

PAGE 2 The New Left: A Critical View By STEVE PIERCE The Studc:nt Left. quite heedless 0 f the rule of reason and the bounds of common dcceacy. is, it seems, everywhere rearing its ugly head. From the violence of San Francisco State to the sheer fooLishness of the ''libemtion\ of \racist\ Brandeis, a minority .of our generation has seen fit. in their omnipetence, to say the things that they feel must be said and do the things they feel rnust be done. But all too often their articulateness is limited to four-letter obscenities and their deeds to mindless violcHcc. But what is most anmz\ng (or should I say alarming) about the present state of events is not the aimless railing of the militant minority but the quie.f acquiescence of the majority of students. The reason for their silence may be traceable to the pi Hable example of college administrators who, with several exceptions, have acted like so many India rubber-men in their pathetic attempts to twist their liberal ideologies to allow them to condone the ru th.lessness of their political kin in the younger generation. But the contradictions of the Left arc so g I a r i n g a n d t h c mora! b:mkruptc) so appalling that one can still not help but wondc.r, What of their colleagues? Is there implicit in their silence an acceptance of the Left's goals (if they really have any) and tactics'? Or is the silence really a rebuke to the nonsense that is cultivated so assiduously by the Left? For the glaring contradictions arc there, surely enough, and they need to be ceaselessly thrown squarely in the faces of their makers in order to drive home the point that today's students have not traversed the years of their education to accept violence over reason or tyranny over democracy. Take, for example, the cruel misrepresentation in the use of the term \participatory _democracy.\ Adherents of the Left mouth these words incessantly but tillc sound is rather hoHow when the backdrop is tyranJlY by an elitist minority prupor.ting to speak for a large mass of students. How partkipatory is tile democracy in which students arc threCJ.tcned with bodily iHjury because of a desire to attend class in the face of a strike precipi1atcly called by ti:1c local noise mukers? How democratic is ~he university where (as at the University of Massachusetts ncendy) a speaker is shoute<i down against the expressed wisl1e s of the great majority of the student body? Surely the credibility (assuming, for the moment, tbat they have uny) of the Leftists is put in jeopardy by the use of such obviol:ls double-talk.. Indeed, it is puzzling to sec how the Left's high priests thc1nse lves can take such discredited bunk seriously. (There is nothing jn the New Left ideology that says one has to believe the slogans one espouses. To cspeu se them with seeming eamestness is good enough. Expediency counts.) Or observe, if you will, the perverse logic that ena l:iled the black campus leadership of San Francisco State to proffer the interesting cxplaJlU tion that the bl ackstuden t whose bomb exploded in his face was the victim of our racist society. Such inane intellectual treats are commonplace in the Left's daily go-round wid1 the demons of their world. Ome objectivism and reason have been pllt aside, great hurdles ca11 be overcome, as the Left is fast learning. Given the right pitch of indignation and righteousness, black can be white and vice versa, with as much or as little gray in between as is needed t <J \prove\ the point. Intellectual rigor is tiring and, what is worse, potentially embarrassing. Of what use can .it be when the mor~ reliable tactics like the big lie and sheer terror are at hand? I do not wish to give credit to our left-leaning contemporaries for the invention of these devices of persuasion, however. \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.\ Publtsh•d iu•sday and F'r~day dur- lnc the- i chool year by the St uct en! Body of UntonColl e&e. Schenectady. N, Y. National Adverllslni Repro- •~nt &tlv~: N at1onal Educ at sonal Adv~rruung ServscP. Inc .. Col!C!'g!' ,Publlahf'rs R~presentall'•e. 360 Lexington Ave-nue. N. Y. C. Edttortal Off1ce. Old Gym, Un1on Colle~te. Publlcatte>n ()fftc.,, White- hurst Prlnllng &. B<ndtni Co., Inc .. 416-418 Ftfth Av•·· Tr-oy. 235-4450. Entered tn the 5<: he necta·dy ? ost Offtce as Socond Cla5S Mad lvf.atter. Subscnptton 20<: a ce>py; $6 a year de-hvered anywhere s..n the Unated States. NEIL S. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WILUAM OUZER Managing Editor CARL GO LOS AND Business l\lanager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews. Andrew C'risscs, Henry Fein, L<:HTY Friedman. Alan l\lell. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Lloyd Bi rns. Bruce Hustcn, Ed Jerome, Jerry Levine. Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, Peter Weingold. STAFF Tony Beninati, Bruce Garber. Bill Holleran. Phil Galdston. Alan Greenfield, George Kaplan, Hank Lcvjne. Ste-ve Levy. Stu Moss, Gary Prevost. Randy Sutter. To do so would be gmssly unfair to the Communists and the Fascists, both of whom (as well as other politic~! deviates) labored long [lnd hard at perfectii~g these weapDns. To make believable any assertion, no matter how inimical to reason or propriety, it need only b(! repeated often enough, at high volunH, to the a c c om p a n i me n t of low, menacing growls and presto--an accepted \fact\ is the result. Hitler made the most of this tactic in his ruthless drive for power, and any resemblance between his methods and those of the authoritarians cun;ently pi aguing our universities is, I venture to say, more than coincidental. The r e a I i n t e II e c tu a I emptiness of the New Left was touched on in an October, 1968, article in Esquire by Daniel J. Boorstin baseness of the Leftist position of resort to violence, w.hen necessary, when he said that this was \eloquent testimony of the New Barbarians' lack .of subject matter. An act of violence may express ha,tc or anger, but it communicates nothing precise or substantial. Throwing a rock, like lmrling.an epithet, proclaims that the thrower has given up trying to say anything.\ One can sec, 1 think, that the New Left has locked itself in to what is basically a logically u n t e H able p o sit i o,n . T h c contradictions are everywhere. To choose not to see them and still proclaim such ideals as \participatory democracy\ is treachery of the nwst evil sort and makes a mockery of the concept .of a liberal education. To those entranced by the chants of the Left, the lyrics of a current Beatie tune offer good advice: \You say you want a Revolution? Well, better free your H1iad instead.\ Given the inherent inconsistencies and totalitarian propensities observable in the New Left, the silent student majority can be expected to produce the real spokesmen .of our generation-men who are rational, purposive and tolerant. . BLITHER Dr. Ryan W. Drum of the University of Massachusetts will conduct a seminar on \Silica and Biostructure\ at 4:30p.m. next Wednesday in Room 304 of Bailey Hall. Dr. Drum is being sponsored by the Union Department of Biological Sciences. A Social Relief Committee has been formed at Union to assist overburdened social \Yorkers in the Schenectady social services. The committee will help in emergency cases such as unexpected trips to the hospital, quick delivery of food and so on where social workers might temporarily be unavailable. Committee members would not l>e expected to devote more than three hours of time during one emergency. Persons interested in joining the committee should contact Philip Di Sorbo at 372-3445. Notice for all Senior Lefesavers and Water Safety-Aid Instructors who wish to take refresher course, meeting Wednesday, April 16 at 3:30 at the pool. Comp. Ed. 10 is sponsoring a special trip to New York City on April 19, to sec the off-broadway play \In the Matter of J. Robert Oppenheimer.\ Any member of the Union College community is invited to attend, whether or not he is currently enrolled in Comp. Ed. 10. The price of a ticket is $8.50 (orchestra front, for the evening performance). Round t1ip bus fare is free of charge. The bus will arrive in New York shortly after noon, and students will be free for the rest of the day until the 8:30 performance. Anyone interested in purchasing tickets should contact Professor 01 ton (213 Social Sciences Building). The annual Aerospace Ball, co-sponsored by the ROTC. Cadet Corps and the Arnold Air Society, will be held Saturday, April 19 from 9:00p.m. until I :00 a.m. at the Holiday Inn on Nott Terrace. Besides the cadet corps, their dates, and the Detachment Staff, faculty guests have been invited to attend the festivities. A \Queen of the Ball\ will be selected from among the cadets' dates. The possibility of skits is also being considered. The theme of this years Ball is \Fly Me to the Moon\. Students who wish to be considered for \Room-jobs\ --------------------~ Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES DEWITT'S CatetfHia and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 1 1 8 - 1 20 JAY STRffT APRIL 11 1969 Jonas' ~'Isolationism'' Book Published in Paperback By Cornell University Press 1J \Isolationism in America, 1935-1941\ a book by Dr. Man fred Jonas, professor of history, was published by Cornell Paperbacks April 28. Originally published in 1966, the work is a study of the men who opposed American entry into World War H. Professor Manfred Jonas off-campus next year should contact Mr. Bingham in the Student Aid Office by May 15. This includes those wishing to renew current jobs. The Campus Religious Council is currently holding its annual Book and Clothing Drive. Deposit boxes are in all major buildings around the campus. Books and clothing for both adults and children are needed. The World University Service ships the material overseas. The Drive ends on Friday. The Class of 1972 will sponsor a mixer with Green M9un tain College April 12 in Alumni Gym beginning at 8 p.m. Live music wil1 be provided by \The Stop\. Admission will be one dollar for men, free for women. It has been described by reviewers as \a thoughtfu-l and It detailed intellectual hist0ry of American isolationism,\ \a shrewd and subtle analysis ,of 1 , isolationist thought,\ and \a sprightly and thorough study of the disparate isolationist groups in the decade before Pearl ~~'' lcl\arb or.\ Graduated F~om Harvard Prof. }onas is a 1949 graduate of the City Col'lege of New ), York. He took his doctorate at Harvard in 1959 and joined the Union faculty in 1 963. ~ He also published \American Foreign Rei at ions ill the Twentieth Century,\ as well as numerous articles in professional tJ journals both here and: abroad. Currently on sabbatical leave, he is working on a book dealing with United States-1'erman (IJ relations. SUNDAY RECI'TAL Hugh Allen Wilson, associate professor Df music at Union College and college organist, will present his fifth · organ recital of the academic year at 4 p;In. Sunday in Memorial Chapel. The program will be · ''Versets in F\ and \Suite in C,\ Zipoli; \Kiavieruebung III,\ Bach; ''Chorale in B · Minor,\ Franck; and \Somta . on the 94th J>salm: Adagio and Fugue,\ Reubke. One more recital, on May 4 at Memorial Chapel, has · been scheduled before the • end of the spring term. All • recitals are open to the ' public. • Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing APRil11 Tl The e} curricul-un pornogra~ Ed 'Dispm ·the Ph. [ T:he h.h broaden in , course c aclditien 1 in sub-Sa Holmes. li Holme: the wor,~ Boston involved 1 0 fruits 0 research < of Lak.e € Holmes' recording clan grou tribe in c history fr< 1945, inl post-color Joseph of the Cll lm~ New bills w student. disruptiv< . cancellin! ' loans are some c according Chapter Liberties In t Newslettt: bills as in1 \The unlawful this legis! ' a de qua disorder,' One i> because students while no1 do not n< article st awardee academic commits follow th scholar,\ Anoth • G require ~ Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Our 61 st Year in Downtown Sc:henec.tady proceedil with disr I Sl 2j MAYFA At the TUES. th THUR

1969 IJ 1il by and \ of .. \ ~~,.a ysis ·of 1 , '\a of groups Pearl ~~'' raduate New ), at tl1e the well as tl abroad. he dealing <JJ I I music s fifth demic in be · in ebung in B · • · May has· e the • All • the · ~ i • El I i • •• I • l .. I .,, ~£A~P~R~Il~11~19~6~g~----------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------JP~A~G~E~3 Three Years Near Lake Victoria Led to Record of African History By NEIL S. KRAMER The expansion of the Union curricul\Um is not lip-rited to the pornography course in the Comp Ed Disputed Questions series or · the Ph. D. program in biology. T:h e h.is tory department is broadening the scope of its , course offering through the addition next year of an expert in sub-Saharan history, Charles Holmes. v Holmes has just completed the work for his Ph. D. at Boston University, which involved the presentation of the 0 fruits of three years field research on .the southern shore of Lake Victoria in Tanzania. € Holmes' research involved recording ,the oral histo1y of a clan grouping within the largest tribe in Tanzania. It involves c history fmm the earliest times to 1945, including both pre-and post-colonial events. Joseph Finkelstein., chairman of the history department, e x p I a in e d that Holme s' met~odology _was quite unique. While teachmg English and African history at a boa.rcling schodl for blacks, Holmes would take off into the countryside on the weekends with an interpreter and a tape recorder. He's seek out the elders in the communHy who were responsible for \remembering\. Then, by piecing together -the various accounts, Holmes was able to synthesize a history of the dan. Archeological investigation represents the only other possible method available for ga-thering information about the pre-colonial history of these people. Offer Three Courses AlthoLLgb it did not appear in his Ph. D. dissertation, Holmes became intensely involved with the secondary school people he was teaching. \In teaching a young elite, I began to understan,d the problem in a Charles Holmes ...... CLU Says Pendi,ng Laws Imperil Campus Freedom New York State legislature bills which would penalize students participating in disruptive demonstrations by . cancelling their scholarships and ' loans are discriminatory and in some cases unconstitutional, according to the Cpaital District Chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union. In the CLU's March Newsletter an article critices the bills as ineffective: \The CLU does not endorse unlawful activity, but it believes this legislation will fail to deal 'adequately with campus disorder,\ the article states. One bill is discriminatory l> because it penalizes only students who need financial aid while not affecting students who do not need such assistance, the article states. \Scholarships are awarded for excellence in academic work; if a student commits a crime, it does not follow that he becomes less of a scholar,\ the article contends. Another bill which would (IJ require colleges to establish proceedings to follow in dealing with disruptive faculty members The PIPEMAN'S and students is \an unfortunate one,\ tl1e article states. \The standards described for such regulations are vague and ambiguous, and the criteria for determining behavior to be penalizeci is poorly defmed.\ The article criticizes the two bills as \hasty legislative reactions, based on anxieties arising fr()m the 'generation gap'. If students are guilty of crimes, they sh()uld be punished in courts .of law; if they are not, they should be dealt with by regulations developed by individual colleges and universities,\ the article states. The two bills have won some acceptance in both houses of the legislature, the article states. It says that there is a \near certainty\ that the bills will be sent to Gov. Nelson Rockefeller for signing. However, the article notes that \there are some indican ons that Governor RockefelJer is not disposed to sign them into law\ if he receives enough indication that there is a large number of people opposed to the bills. . ·• . ·. ' t .. ' -. ~ ..... .In the F acuity Lounge developiug country of a pseudo-class distinctien,\ he said. Holmes will offer three courses ltere next year. His two history courses will be a survey course in sub-Saharan history and a seminar style, upper level course ~n. selected topics in African history. He will also conduct a Comp Ed junior project course entitled, \The Black Atn:erican in Search of Identity: the Case of Schenectady.\ It wiD be an active, personal investiga lion of the political goal and social aspirations of the local black community. The methodology will focus on inteJViews wWch is similar to the methodology Holmes used successfully in his research in Ta!lzania. Referring to the connections between American and African blacks, he said, \There are links, but they are hard to define. They want to identify with something their own, not of the American white power structure.\ Holmes said that he often found himself agreeing with American blacks, even on \radical\ issues. \Malcolm X, for example, has a lot of value·- his symbol of the black American spirit may be the strongest and most valuable.\ BNI Needs Volunteers Better Neighborhoods, Inc., S c h e n e .c ta dy ' s p r i v a t e , non-profit :housing ·Corporation, has set liP a plan to use volunteer labor in repairing and renovatin..g two-family houses. The houses, purchased by BNI, are made a-vailable for rental or eventual purchase by lov; and middle ince>me families. Volunieer groups of four to ten pers()ns are most useful, according to A.K. Raney, member of the BNI Board of Directors who is in charge of the volunteer program. One member should act as leader, both in setting up a schedule and in supervising the actual work Three l<inds of jobs are ,Down fJJ Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. especially suited to volunteer groups. These are, I) cleaning out newly-purchased houses befGre repairs are begun, 2) painting interior walls and woodwork, and 3) fmal cleanup before tenants move in. V-olunteer crews normally work on weekends, but work can be scheduled at anty time. Individual volunteers will be · added to existing crews, or combined to make up new crews. Prospective workers should call A.K. Raney at 372-5813 or the Better Neighborhoods office at 372-6469 to arrange a work schedule. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICH-OLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 -Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 14-th V'EAR for reservations phone FR 4-8917 1 Fol three Gensrations.\ ~ Skidlets pursue written Wasserman Skid Kids Aim for Q,uiz From the Skidmore NEWS Students who wished to participate in General Electric's College Bowl Quiz were required to take a writteN examination for the first round of competitions We.dnesday, February 19. The girls who were present had either signed themselves up or were recommended by their departments or friends. Competitions are continuing in order to select eight students out of the thirty to forty tested for Skidmore's team on College Bowl, April 20. Oral Round Begins Dr. Louise Dalby. Chairman of the history department and coach for the College Bowl team, has announced that the oral round of competitions for all .students who participated in the written examination will begin on March 5. At tllis time, students will compete with each other in groups of four. Eventually eight finalists will be chosen to compete for the four team posts. All eight will travel to New York City for the meet. The committee of professors for the event are Dr. Louise Dalby, Professor and Chairman of History; Dr. Erwin L. Levine, Associate Professor of Government; Dr. Helga Doblin, Assistant Prefess()r of German and French; Dr. Joan Siegfried, Assistant Professor of Art History; Mr. Laurence Josephs, Assistant Prefessor of English; Dr. Paul Walker, Assistant Professor of Chemistry; and Mr. Alvin Skipsna, Assistant Librarian. LINEBACKER The Union College Course Evaluation may not appear until next Friday, April 18, because of complications at the print shop, Neil S. Kramer, Editor of Concordiensis announced today. Call to Colors in. Single-Breasted Blazers. Some bold, others not so bold-all in the good discerning taste of Deansgate. But more important than color is the authentic traditional cut of these soft-shoulder Deansgate blazers. So come in and see this handsome collection. Who knows? You may buy more than one. The fabric? Well-mannered 55% Dacron® polyester and 45<Jc wool blend. $60.00 Deansgate fj ~ SMOKE SHOP WANTED: Student to compile list of students, their class, address and field, for use in corporate recruiting and educational material mailings. Work at your leisure. Write MCRB, Div. of Rexall Drug and ·Chemical Co., 12011 Victory Blvd., No. Hollywood, Calif. 91609 Those 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOPPING. CENTER At the Sign of the Red Noon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. also THURS. and FRI.: 7 ,Jo 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 WhC) l<no-w ••• Have been .. ecanmending • HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER \3- Union Graduates in Graubart Family,. 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Dall's Men's Sn.op 1599 UPPER UNION STREET

~oncord~y~S~p_·o_rt_s~-~-~~: Young Trackmen Hope For Even Season By LEN SIMON \We're still a year away.\ That was the initial comment by Unillll tract co:.Jdl Ron Coleman when asked about his chances for success this season. !lis team, which opens the spring season Tuesday with a home encounter with Trinity, is wmpused almost exclusively of sophomores and juniors, and a strong crop of freshmen makes things look even better for the futwe. lluwever, Coleman has by no means given up on this season. He expects to have a respectable season, and wiH1 some breaks coultl have a short at a .500 or better, record. One big reason Colcrnan cannot be too sure about his p mspccts is the fact that Carl Thum, his best athlete, is presently feeling the effects of munormclcosis, or some similar afniction, and his status for the season is questionable. Thurn is an outstanding performer in any race between I 00 yards and a half mile. He ould also be a part of both relays. !lis ability to compete will be a large factor in determining the success of the team. Thum, however, is not all Coleman and his team have to r--····· .. ·········•······•·····•·· .. ··· .. ~ i THE FEIN LINE 1 l by HENRY FEIN j ......................................... Witl1 the abolition of the maintenance system, it has been rumored to this reporter that a number of faculty members, especially those in the Center for Humanities and Social Sciences, have privately advocated slashing the budget for the Department of Athletics, including the possibility of cutting the size of the coaching staff. Nothing could be more shortsighted and foolhardy. According to unofficial reports reaching this writer, it has been argued that a number of faculty have questioned the need for the '\large\ staff of tile Department of Athletics now that coaches arc no longer needed to \teach\ maintenance. It has been suggested that no new people be hired to replace those who may retire or leave for other positions in the next few years. Help Make a \Name\ At a time when Union sports have finally begun to produce winning seasons and help build a \name\ for the college, any reduction in the coaching staff would be ludicrous. No one can deny that Union is not the best known of colleges: even on Long Island, supposedly one of the college's \hotbeds\ of potential students, hand. C'olgate. a school of somewhat lesser academic fine students to a school more than one hour by car from civilization of any sort. Why can Colgate do so well in recruiting fine students? At least partly because of its well-known sports squads, including a football team that playswith the Ivy League. To many on the faculty more concerned, and rightly so. with academic pursuits, a good football team may seem highly insignificant and wasteful. But to a prospective freshman, including many of the best students, that a college is \well-known\ is of paramoun importance. One of the best ways to become ··well-known\ is by maintaining a vibrant at hie tic program that produces winning teams. This is not to say that Union should increase recruiting tenfold and devote large sums of money to yield winners. On the other hand, a cut in the coaching staff can only cripple the present program, one that is now producing meaningful results. Union, after Inany years as the \doormat\, can now field highly respectable squads in most sports for our level of competition. We arc not a UCLA, nor even a Davidson. But such a major program would be as ludicrous as a return to mediocrity. With our modest recruiting and One coaching, Garnet teams have reached respectability in the past five years. Geographic distribution of the student body has improved, some of the credit must be given to our ncw·f ound \name.\ Find a Happy Medium It can be argued that to be known as a school with a good football team is not what Union wants, and I would be the first to agree. As Michigan State discovered in the 1950's, unless there is something more than a good gridiron record, all the publicity in the world will not improve the college. We all know, however, that Union is a tine school with outstanding programs in all areas of academic pursuit. Once students !cam of Union, many become interested. Good sports teams, nato'J'ally well-publicized, help these students hear about Union. I am not in a position to comment on the future of physical cduc:.~tion, if any, at Union. I do feel. however, that I must speak out on the future of sports at Union. The progress that has been made must not now be destroyed by those who. in their zeal to reform, throw out the baby with the bathwatcr. Much good has come from sports at Union. It should continue to do so. Our pre;ent program is of ideal size andscopc.It need not be changed. BOOKS Text· Telh · & Art Drafting ~quip. Soc & Co111m Stat. UNION BOOK CO. 237-241 STATE ST. 393-2141 Motorcycle Insurance 1\liONACO AGENCY, INC. FS-1 Same Day 30 N. Erie Blvd. Tel. 393-3646 offer. Two other outstandi11g team members are juniors Pete Erickson and Dave Gray. Both will compete in the 440 and both re'lays, and should be consistent point-getters for tl1e Garnet. Another junior, Greg Mills, shows · promise in tl1e half-mile. In the sprints and lo11ge r distances the sophomores take over. Harold Heckman will see action in the !cOO and 220. Terry McManus and John Braham Vlill compete in the mile, and Joe Burgess should be best in the two mil. Field events should also be dominated by sophs, as Bill Bush shows the way in the 'long jump and high jump, and Paul Elliott excels in the hurdles. The only two seniors on tl1e squad will compete in the weight events, with Ed Blechner tossing the discus, and George Gardner competing in the shot put. Steve Kaufman will back up Gray and Erickson in the quarter, and most likely see action in the relay, while Greg Nicosia will back up Mills in the half-mile. Both are sophs. For tl1c frosh, Rich Jaszczak will be a standout in the 440 and relays. J aszczak, also a standout on the gridiron, has shown fantastic promise .in the indoor season. Steve Wood wiH run the same events, and sheuld also be a strong performer. Steve Andrewsk.i gives the Garnet frosh a solid base in the shorter distances. Rich Thickens and Stillings will be in the .shot put, while Thickens and Duncan Hannah attempt to throw the discl!ls. The javelin shows a foursome of Hannah, Rich, Dave Stevenson and Scott Fox. Lax Crushed, 8-2 Face Stevens Next Badly aut played throughCJu t most of the contest, the Garnet lacrosse team dropped its season opener at Middlebury Wednesday, 8·2. The stickmen travel to Hoboken, New Jersey to face Stevens Tech tomorrow before opening their h()me season against ICAC foe Hobart Wednesday. Sloppy passing, little concerted attack, and a lack of hitting by the Garnet enal>led the Panthers to hold Union to only eleven shots on goal in the entire contest. Coming off a four-game Southern swing, Middlebury was sharp and effective, both on offense and defense. Senior attackman Mike Chater, playing in the erase, tallied first, giving the Garnet a 1-0 lead with 4:48 gone in the opening stanza. The Panthers . needed only six seconds, however, to tie the score. whieh was credited to Howie Richmond. Only Two Saves Less than a minute later, the hosts took a 2-1 lead on a goal by Paul Sturges. With I :21 left in the first period, Chater scored his second tally, the final Garnet score of the afternoon. Only two saves were registered by Panther goalie Rick Moore in the entire half, as the Dutchmen were continually stymied, often by their own inept passing. Middlebury tallied th.ree times in the second quarter and NEED A SUMMER JOB? coasted home from there. High scorer in the contest was Panther frosh Brad Bruce, who scored once in the third and twice in the final stanza. Ralph Sexton of the hosts scored tv.~ice in the second quarter to ice the contest. Despite the poor showing, a number of bright spots appeared for the Garnet, especially on defense. Sophomore goalie Ed Greene made 24 saves, a number quite brilliant, while the defensive trio of Don DeMichele, Kevin Monahan, and Pup Gould played extremely well. Anemic Attack As mentioned above, however, the Garnet attack can be only described as anemic. Especially at midfield, the Dutchmen must quickly regain some of the form of past years if 1969 is to be more than a \rebuilding\ season. The sloppy passing and general lack of field organization pennitted the Panthers to completely control the contest. A win over weak Stevens should pull the Garnet back to .500, but Hobart will be a formidible challenge to the stickmen. Much improved over a fine squad that edged the Garnet each of the last two seasons, the Statesmen are the eaoly favorites to run away from the rest of the ICAC. After a two-week trip to Maryland, the Hobart laxmen returned to beat the Syracuse Lacrosse Club, 18-7 two weeks ago. Syracuse YMCA Camp Tousey has openings for Onit Directors, counselors, riding, master, and waterfront director. 500 acre site with 55 staff and 160 campers on Mill site Lake near Redwood, New York. Spend a challenging and rewarding summer working with boys 9-14 years old. For details and application, write Robert Fiske, YMCA, 340 Montgomery St., Syracuse, New York 13202. APRIL 11,1969 l Benediicf's 672 teads T,eam No. 9 To ,Dutch ,teague fitle By GARY PREVOST Tom Bene diet's season-high 672 triple led: Team No. g; to a· sweep of Tean No. 2 and the Dutch -classic Htle i11 the season-endin.g matches held Monday night at the Boul'e'.(ard BowL The two team entered the con test tied for first place, each Rugby Opens At Hom,e Sat. The R u:gby Club has announced a five-game schedule foF the Spring Term, commencing. with a home contest t,om.orrow and highlighted by another c Of! test on Spring Weekend. The slate be gins tomorrow with a contest against Albany Law at 2:00 p.m. on 9aley Field. The dub will play on each of the four succeeding Saturdays, wii\11 two of the four matches scheduled for the home turf. On April 19, the club travels to Ithaca to face the C0rnell Rugby Club. At noon on April 26, the ruggets will h()s\ St. Francis Prep on Daley Fie] d, with 5 I -25 recoFd. Tean1 No. 5• eke cl out victories in the firf• two games by the very slint margins of eight and J6 pins. It the third, however, they score~d an all-time Dutch Classic team sit~gle r.ecord of 835 to clincL the win. ~ Greg Ellis, mlling a 563 in .1 losing cause for Team No. 2, captured the season~s average title by 23 total pins over lt1 Case. EUis finished wit]\ a 188 mark, oHly oHe pin off th( league record of 189 set by CaSf. last year, but one pin over Case's 1968-69 record. In his final match, Ellis opened with a 143 to fall behin8 Case, but then regained the lead for good with a 227 in the second gaJne. Benedict rolled games of 214, 244 and 214 to pace Team No. 9's victory, hut he was aided h3 Pete Van Lund's 214-585 and Bruce Northrup's 233-520. In addition to setting an all-time record with the 835 single, Tea1~ No. 9 also -'Set the season's standard for a team triple with a sparkling 2256. 1 In other matches, Team No. 4 strengthened its hold on third place with a 3-1 win over Teary No. 3. Gary Prevost :paced the victory with a 211-576 and finished third in the individual standings with a 185 average• Dick Marchant capped a steady year with a 202-540 to pace the losers. The club will play its· final home game of the year on Parents' Weekend, with a 2:00 contest scheduled against Albany Med. The fol10wing Saturday, the squad will conclude the spring season with a match at Colgate. c; r-~==========~==========~1 DOUBLE YOUR PLEASURE! DOU3LE YOUR PLEASURE ... by bemg Impeccably double· breasted. One way t0 be expansive. our six· buttoned blazer of f1nest polyesterrworsted hopsack. Pleasurably l1ght and cool. tt ts crafted wtlh unusual attention to styling details. Note the extra lon,g stde vents. authontative lapels and smooth fall of the shoulders. A try on? Our pleasure. by STAN LEY BLACKER $60.00 c ftf/1flatr/' ~~t . ~tJl!~s~!TR!~!IP ' VOl.. 9 .J Sam Ch:nwm fCommi·t Range I teleph< comrnit 1 Friday · of Trm Union t .$the ma lOO girl: The meeting 1 to co recomr made n the ex: ~t· admitte1 college. study. .} I f l Albe and Ch Ground: ;'spoke t< evening plant, i1 projects Mr. I the carr Union t acres ar .. b . emg re He s plannin! with \er Rep a ; main ten and a conditio main ten / outside stated. The )Commit enlargen the pure of newt ' Althc grant in and Pari 1800's s due to 1 since tl Electric up for ·. purchasf ex pan sic Dr. J the Alt Associat at 7:30 The Internat part of i Last Wf ·~~ Nigerian Nigeria-] Dr. professo Poly ted graduate doctor: ' 1 Jniversi A na countr 1 Governri In ac Biafra i member , ofUnive Pi Mu Ej Dr. A public.

• t ..... 1, 1969 ritte No. 5• in the firf• very slint J6 pins. It they score~d tean1 5 to cline], ~ a 563 in .1 No. 2. ~s avera~~ over AI wiH1 a 188 off th( set by Cast over Case's Ellis fall behinl:l the lead in the of 214, Team No. aided h3 and In an all-time . I \ e, Team he season's triple with a I Team No.4 on third over Teary t paced the and individual 85 average• a steady to pace the c; and and Founded at Union College 1877 ' VOl.. 98, NO. 39 SCHENECT'ADY,.N.Y., APRIL 15,1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS -· Fortenbaugh Says Trustee Committee Supports Coeducation .I Samuel B. Fortenbal\gh Jr., Ch:nwnan of the Board of Trustees f Committee on Development and: Long Range Planning said last night in a telephone interview that his committee decided unanimously last Friday to recommend that the Board of Trustees approve coedacation at Union beginning September 1970 with . _,the matriculation of approximately 100 girls. The Tmstees will hold a special meeting in New York City ·on 'May 14 ; to consider the Committee's recommendatioiil. ·The Committee made no recommehdation regarding _the exact num@er of girls to be It admitted or the future size ef the college. Both questions are still under study. When askecl if he thO'Ught the Trustees would approve coeducation, Fortenbaugh said he thought the Trustees would approve coeducation; Fortenbaugh said he could not speak for the en tire Boafd, but added, \I would hope they will follow the re commen·da tion of their own committee.\ Architectural Survey He also said there will be a survey made with ar<chitects May 10 and 11 '\of the physical aspects in anticipation that the Board wnl app.rove coeducation.\ The Development and Long Range Planning Committee met on campus last Friday at which time they talked with students and faculty and studied the results of recent student and .13Y STEVEN LEVY Sam11el B. Fortenbaugh .} I f Bantham Addresses Stndents, Says State of Campus Is 'Fine' l Albert P. Bantham, Life 'lrustee and Chairman of the Buildings & Grounds Committee of the Cellege, .! spoke to a group of students yesterday evening about the state of the college plant, its history, and some of future projects. Mr. Bantham described tlu state of the campus as \fine.\ He noted that Union has a total area of abnost 100 acres and is in the rare position of \' being relatively isolated with.in a city. He said that because of extensive planning the College has a campus with \enharmonius architecture.\ Repair Crew Busy Repairs on the many old bailclings, , maintenance of lawns and shrubbery, and attention to the \terrible condition\ of the roads keeps the maintenance crew busy, ofteninvolves .. outside help, and is expensive, he stated. The Building & Grounds >Committee is also occupied with the enlargement of the campus through the purchase of land and construction of new buildings. Although the College's initi:aJ land grant included the area between Erie and Parkwood Boulevards, during the 1800's some of the land had to be sold due to financial need. The areas sold, since then known as the General Electric Plot, have periodically come up for sale and the College has '• purchased a number of lots for expansion. i~Biafran Speaks Dr. John C. Amazigo, president of the Albany chapter of tb.e •Biafra Association in the :Americas, will ~peak at 7:30p.m. Thursday in Old Cltapel. The lecture is sponsored l::w the International Relations Club and is part of its international conflict series. Last week, a representative <Jf the '~~ Nigerian consulate spoke on the Nigeria-Biafr:a situation. Dr. Amazigo is an assistant professor .of mathematics at Rens~elaer Polytechnic Institute, where he was graduated in 1964. He took his doctorate last year at Harvard ' 1 Jniversity. , A native of Biafra,' he came to this country after graduating from Government College in Ibadan. In addition to his wor.k witb. the Biafra Association, Dr. Amazigo is a member of the American Association _, of University Professors, Siglrla :Xi, and Pi Mu Epsilon. Dr. Amazigo's lecture is opm to the public. By PHIL GALDSTON Seeks New Land At present, Mr. Bantham stated all bat the \key plot\ on the land immediately east of Alexander Field and a number of other fairly large plots are owned by Union. The Committee is constantly searching for new land, he said, but it faces the problems of having to purchase a number of lots at the same time while one private landholder can hold up progress by refusing to sell his property if it is a key piece in a large plot. Although at one time the Trustees were considering abandoning the present campus, the construction of Fox and Davidson Houses committed the College to its presen tsite. Because of this committment the enlargement of the College plant has been pursued. Mr. Bantham talked about new buildings and other facilities now in the construction and planning stages. Science Complex Delayed The new Science Center, due to be completed by May , 1970, is now behind schedule. Four new tennis courts are scheduled to be finished by September, 1969. In additi()ll, a chilled water plant will be built adjacent to the heating plant during; this summer. Its purpose will be to provide air conditioning for certain areas: ()[the campus in order to make the ~ring and summer more comfortable and to attract larger numbers of summer school students. Other plans include the closing of Paine Gate on Union Street to outside traffic in order to eliminate the hazardous situation at that e1:1trance and the relocation of the main entrance farther up on Union Avenue .. The construction of a new road system on the campus, and the eventual prohibition of all vehicular traffic, and parking on most of the campus has also been planned. New Left Historian Talks Tonight On The Cold War and Revisionism Dr. Walter LaFeber, professor of history at Cornell University, will discuss \The Cold War and The Revisionists of the New Left\ at 7:30 p.m. tonight, in the auditorium of the Social Sciences building. Prof. LaFeber's lecture is sponsored by the Department of History and the Lester Fund. The Arne rican foreign policy specialist has written \'The New Empire: An Interpretation of American Historical Association in 1962 while still in manuscript form. The book traces the phenomenon of American empire building from 1860 to 1898. Hanover Graduate A 1955 graduate of Hanover College, he took his doctorate at the University of Wisconsin in 1959. He joined the Cornell faculty in 1959. He currently is chairman of the Department of History. Prof. LaFeber also is the author of \America Russia, and the Cold War\ and editor of \John Q. Adams. and the American Continental Empire.'~ He is listed in the \Directory of Scholars\ and is a member of the American Historical Association and the Organization of American Historians. In 1963-64, he was a Social Science Research Council Fellow. He has also received research grants from the 'Walter LaFeber American Philosophical Society and the Cornell Research Fund. Prof. LaFeber has served on several special committees at Cornell including tl1e Educational Policy Committee ()f the College of Arts and Sciences, tlte Cornell Press Board of Editors, and the Westminister Foundation Executive Committee of Cornell United Religious Work. alumni opmwn polls. thursday, the faculty will vote on coeducation. Sixty percent of the alumni and seventy-eight percent of the students responding to separate polls on coeducation favored in some degree Union's becoming coed, according to results released yesterday. The student poll on coeducation was completed by 818 students or approximately fifty-four percent of the student body. It was not as detailed as the alumni survey. Alumni Answer The alumni questionnaire ·Which appeared in the Winter, 1969 Symposium was answered by 2,521 of the more than ll ,000 living alumni. Although only a quarter Df the alumni responded, President Martin said the sample is considered large enough to be a valid expression of opinion, particularly since the distributien of responses by age group was reasonably near the actual distribution of the total alumni body. Coeducation was favored in some degree by a majmity of the respondents in all age groups, with the exception of the pre-1930 graduates. Fifty-one percent of the alumni in the oldest group voted against coeducation. Low Engineer Vote In a breakdown by undergraduate fields of study, the addition of women to the student body received a majority endorsement from graduates in all fields. The lowest vote in favor of coeducation. was recorded by engineers while the highest positive reply came from scientists. A complete report of the alumni pell will appear in the Summer, 1969, Sy~posium. A'lcohol & You Representatives of four community agencies will comprise a panel at the third session of the \Alcohol and Yeu\ series, at 7:30 p.m. Monday in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building. The four-part series is sponsored by students in a junior Comprehensive Education class, under the direction of Dr_ Twitty J. Styles, assistant professor of biological sciences, in cooperation with the Alcoholism Council of Schenectady County, Inc. Comprising the panel will be Miss Carolyn Terpening of the Schenectady County Probation Department, Pat DiLeva of the Schenectady Police Department, Mrs. Edna Holterbach of the county Department of Social Services, and Mrs. Virginia Melver, a public health nurse with the Schenectady Health Department. ALUMNI CO-ED SURVEY If you have a college bound daughter, would you want her to attend a coeducati<Jnal Union? Yes: 893 No: 508 Other: 3 In general, do you favor coeducation at Union? Strongly favor 34% Opposed 10.6% 21.7% Favor 26.2% Strongly Opp. Neutral 7.3% Would you approve of coeducatioa at Union if it meant reducing the number of men enrolled by about 25%? Strongly Favor 22.5% Opposed 15_0% 32.0% Favor 22.0% Strongly Opp. Neutral 8.0% Would wou approve of coeducation if it meant increasing the size of the college by a 'bout 30% (to 2000 students)? Strongly Favor 28.6% Opposed 12.6% 25.0% Pavor 24.6% Strongly Opp. Neutral 8.0% - Overall was your personal experience at Union: Very Satisfactory 57.6% Unsatisfactory 3.0% 1.6% Satisfactory 32.0% Very Unsatisfactory Neutral 5.7% Those who indicated their experience at Union was unfavorable were more inclined to answer that their experience at Union would have been more s<~tisfactory had the school been co-ed, than those who said their experience was favorable. However, the percentage having an unfavorable experience at Union is small. Some people think the presence of women on campus is distriacting and prevents men from woTking hard on courses. Do you agree? Yes 26.9% Undecided 9.5% No 63.4% Other people think that women on campus make for a richer, fuller educational experience and add a greater variety of intellectual viewpoints. Do you agree? Yes 57.4% No 31.8% Women would substantially improve the cultural and extra-curricular aspects of campus life. Do you agree? Yes 33.6% No 27.1% Women on campus would create a healthier and more \normal\ social atmosphere. Do you agree? Yes 63.0% No 28.6% Local Drive Hits Half Million Less than three weeks after Union College's capital fund drive in the ·Greater New York City area started more than one fourth of the $2 million goal has been pledged. Gifts from 19 donors have pushed the total to more than $550,000. Union's largest concentration of alumni, more than 2,200, live in metropolitan New York City. The campaign was begun March 26 with a dinner for about 900 alumni 311d their guests at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel ifi Manhattan. President Harold C. Martin was the principal speaker. Clifford J. Benfield, an executive with the Columbia Broadcasting System and former president of Union's New York City Alumni Association, is general chairman of the drive. The college's capital campaign is seeking $12.5 million by 1970. Union's 17Sth anniversary. More than $6 million has been pledged nationally. The New York City drive follows the successful Schenectady area campaign, which raised $1.7 million. A campaign in the Saratoga Springs-Glens Falls area is above the $100,000 mark. And a campaign in the Johnstown-Gloversville-Fonda area l1as raised $25,000.

Concordr Sports PAGE 2 APRIL 15, 1969 Lax Tops Stevens, Hosts Tough Hobart Mound Looks Good As Batsmen Open Varsity Wins, 2-6 Frosh Romp by 21~2 On a goal by Mike Chater with only thirty-six seconds left in t.he col'ltest, the Garnet varsity lacrosse team defeated Stevens Tech at Hoboken by the score of 7-6. The victory over the . Stutemen squares the stickmen's record at 1-1. The squad opens the home seaso11. tomorrow against defencling ICAC champ Hobart .. The contest will get under way at 2:30 on Daley Field. After taking an early 1-0 lead, the Dutchmen found themselves tied 3-3 at the end of the first quarter. Stevens tallied twice in the second stanza, however, to take a 5-3 bulge into the locker room. The Garnet roared back in the seco11d half, and took a 6-5 lead early in the fourth quarter on Chater's second tally of the afternoon. Stevens reknotted the contest within two minutes, however, to set up Shater's last-ditch heroics. Chater Leads Scoring Chater chalked up four points for the day on three goals and an assist. His partner on attack, Bruce Westby, likewise picked up four points, on a goal and three assists. Doug Duval, Jim Sabeall and Don Hoover each scored a goal, while Steve Bauer was credited with an assist. For the Stutemen, Charles Bretana and George Weekes each scored two goals, while John Wart and Bill Douglas tallied once. DeMichele Hurt Perhaps the darkest spot Saturday was an injury to star middle Don DeMichele. Although the .senior co-captain's injury is not serious, it will probably keep him out of tomorrow's vita1 contest with Hobart. The Dutchmen are already thin at midfield, and if Don is forced to miss the game with the Statesmen, Garnet hopes for victory will be dimmed. This week will see three home ICAC contests. After tomorrow's struggle against Hobart, the Dutchmen will entertain St. Lawrence on Friday and Clarkson on Saturday. None of the games will be easy_ St. Lawrence, much improved this season, posted a 9-6 victory Saturday over powerful Colgate. Clarkson, who does not field a football team, always manages to produce a hard-hitting physically punishing defense. In an awesome show of offensive strength, the freshmen laxmen crushed the Stevens Tech frosh~ on Saturday 21-2. Norm Staven, Kenny Rosenthal, Bill Waldron, Jim White, and Dave Black each scored three times for tll.e Garnet to lead the Union scoring effort. On defense, Tom Ries, Gary Drummond, and Ed Young all played well, limiting the feeble Stevens attack to five shots on goal. The Stevens lacrosse team, however, was very inexperienced at all positions, and their ineptitude led Coach Gary Brown to comment, \I'm not sure if we were that good, or they were that bad.\ Statesmen Now 3-1; Strong Mid, Attack ' By HENRY FEIN With a squad considerably improved over the teams that edged the Garnet each of the last two seasons, the 1969 Hobart stickmen will be a formidible challenge to the Dutchmen when the two meet on Daley Field tomorrow. The Statesmen enter the contest with a fine 3-1 record, including a split of a two-game trip to Maryland in mid-March. While there, the Hobart laxmen .defeated Towson State 8-7 before falling to Bowling Green, 11-7. Other victories have come over the powerful Syracuse Lacrosse Club (18-6) and Long Island powerhouse Hofstra (10-9 in sudden-death overtime). The S t a t e s m e n h ave consistently come from behind this season, winning t.he Towson and Hofstra tilts with outs tanding fourth-quarter performances. In the opener in Maryland, the Hobart stickmen outscered their hosts 5-l in the final stanza after trailing 6-3 at the end of three quarters. Hobart Roars Back After falling behind 9-4 after three against Hofstra, the Statesman pulled off a simply unbelievable turnaround. From the time the Flying Dutchmen scored their ninth goal at 6:05 of the third quarter, Hofstra did not record a single shot on goal in regulation, going a total of 33 minutes and 38 seconds without a single shot. Dming the first ·Netm.en Hope t·o Better Record After last year's disappointing, 0-6 season, Coach Robert Benson's tennis team can only hnprove, but teams like Trinity, Rochester, R.P.I., Middlebury, and Hamilton, which are scheduled for this spring, aren't eager to see it happen. By BftUCE GARBER hopefully be ready. In addition, Peter Seigel, who would have played \no lower than number two,\ transferred to Berkely last fall. Jeff Kurzius is at number one spot again this yeu, and with a strong forehand and clockwork consistancy, has the ability to topple many opponents. Jeff South, who has one of the strongest serves on the team, will play namber two, and back up Kurzius at frrst doubles. The predicament has been worsened by the destruction of four courts due to the new science center. With only four courts left, Benson has trouble procurring team time for his small squad, and has had to suspend the freshman squad until next year, when the new courts will Ron Wendolowski is at third singles, just above Steve Karp, who plays an e\citingly agressive game, ; I SUMMER JOBS UNDER AMERICAN FORSIGHI'.S llNIQUE GUARANTEEDINCOMEPROGRA~ YOU CAN EARN $1000 to $2500 WITH NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE QUALIFICATIONS: 1. YOU MUST HAVE A CAR 2. YOU MUST LIVE WITHIN THESE AREAS: Massachusetts Northern & Eastern Connecticut Delaware Rhode Island New Jersey Maryland Eastern Pennsylvania OR WITHIN 50 Ml LES OF: Springfield, Massachusetts Boston, Massachusetts Providence, Rhode Island Newark, New Jersey Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Bal.timore, IVIaryland Come and Learn About This Terrific Summer Job Opportunity TODAY- APRIL 15th, 1969 1:15 P.M. Room No. 117 ·3:00P.M. Humanities Building I . /1 ., · • 'Yr !~r L•' .,,· but is often erratic. These two make up the fast, hard hitting, second doubles 1eam. Also uound the fourth spot is Len Duckworth, who like South boasts a strong serve, but like Karp, often lacks consistency. Sophomores Alan Meisel and Jack Liu finish off the singles team. Meisel, who played number two as a freshman last yeu, plays a defensive game, returning evezything and allowing his opponent to make the mistakes. Andy Blumenthal is the fmal starter, and will team up with either Meisel or Liu at third doubles. Rugby Falls To Lawyers, 11-3 An inexperienced Gamet rugby club dropped its spring opener to Albany Law, 11-3, here on Saturday. Outplayed by the deep and experienced lawyers throughout most of the contest, the Dutchmen suffered through a frustrating afternoon. Howie Goldberg scored for the Garnet in the rust quarter after a long run, but the lack of prior play hurt the Union ruggers all afternoon. Albany Law scored twice on penalty kicks resulting largely from Gamet inexperience. In addition, when injuries took out two Dutchmen early in the fourth quarter, the Garnet were forced to play short, for in rugby there can be no substitution until the end of each quarter. Phone 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinders Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall - One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. two four-minute overtime periods,. the Flying Dutchmen managed only two s.hots at the Hobart net. The Statesman have a strong, deep squad,especially at midfield and attack. Freshman Bob Albinski, instrumental in the Towson win, Scott Davis, and football star Mark Perkins, who scored the wiBning goal against Hofstra, form a powerful trio at midfield. Against Syracuse, the Statesmen finished with a 14-10 edge in faceoffs and a 10640 bulge in coming up with ground balls. Strong Attack The attack is equally potent. Senior Frank Boyar, last year's national scoring champ, has fourteen points including eight goals in the first four games. Sophomore John Topichack, who only won a starting job after a seven-point surge against Syracuse, leads the club with sixteen points on eight goals. Senior Derek Stolp is also contributing, with ten points rncluding four goals. In order to beat the Statesmen, the Dutchmen must stifle an established offense with fine defensive play. Perhaps even more important will be the midfield play. The Hobart middies are quite good, passing well and often scoring. themselves. The suspect Gamet midfield must play at its best if Union hopes to remain in the contest. Prevost Takes Bowl Tourney By BILL HOLLERAN As the 1969 Gamet baseball team prepares to open its season tomorrow afternoon at Middlebury, solid pitching once again points the way to a successful season for the Union nine. However, questionable hitting could make the difference between an outstanding team and a mere wiJilner, and could possibly keep the Dutchmen OU:t of the N.C.A.A. Atlantic Coast Regionals for the second year in a row. Pitching, as usual, is the strong feature of the Gamet batsmen. ~ Anchoring the staff once again is outstanding left-hander and team captain Bill Neidel. Neidel, an important cog in the Garnet wheel that rolled to a 9-2 record last year and barely missed playing in the Regional playoffs, has excellent stuff, a good fastball, and should win more than a few ballgarnes for the Ga.met this season. Backing him up are Joe Douglas, a right-hander, who came into his own during the middle of last season; and sophomores Lany Berkeley, a lefty; and Ken Coyne, also a southpaw. Hitting a Question Mark Although the Dutchmen have always had good pitching under the excellent hurling tutelage of Art Lawrence, hitting on Gamet squads has never been overpowering. Such is again the case this season, as the hitters have been rusty so far in practice. Yesterday, for instance, the Gamet batsmen could only muster one run in losing to Albany State in a scrimmage, 4-1. - The .first .five men in the Garnet batting order, however, show good potential and could provide the sock to go with the pitching. Leadoff man Dale Long, handling short this season, has looked good in practice. He is followed in the lineup by Ken Pearce, at second base and Mike Mac Gee, a first baseman from Albany Pharmacy. Tom Miller, the third baseman; and Mike Solomon, the left fielder should get their share of hits. Rounding out the probable Garnet batting order for tomorrow are Bob McKensie, in centerfield, Jim Wilson, in right, and RonGidlow, the catcher. •For three Generations.'· Jhose Who Know .•• Have been Gary Prevost captured the .. ecommending - All-College Singles Bowling Tourney recently, scoring a 169-167 win over HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER Frank Fusick in the fmals. Prevost, 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' who had qualified in the next-to-last 166 JAY ST. spot, advanced to the fmals by defeating Bob Krausse 200-156, stan FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Segal 191-176 and AI Case 194-181. ;------------------------ . c;JEN BREW, Co •• ROCH., N.Y. ..• a little more exciting! ,, ; . ) ,. ... g, - .. VOL.91 .~Wi ·1:\ 1 .. QL I: · ·. 'Society ~ white stu It's a sh: bring disc The cr fifteen d that A ·.instituted the Willia of the Luther K The 1 Hopkins immacula administr decision. One rr noted th take-over from witl Williarr communi ~located. A nurr The h the Uni· revolutim .has led to explained night at L Prof. '~history Universit' and the F . Revisioni: historians govern me C'old \\ historian best of th Accor< revision is; '''funda assumptil foreign pc ¥~C'ommur \ideologic Soviet fc appears ' tradition::~ be drawn A mer ,Communi factor th: Cold WaJ contend. ,_ The U critical n takeover . \spiral o 'said. To Stalin wa: the prow , making t ,States for . The r much < interpret::~ rather LaFeber : growth\ .II • smce 19 nature o .Communi I The i mission i1

969 season points an the the d team wheel the should own a the squads as Albany show good second Tom batting in R ly\ ~ - ) » , ·1 r Founded at Union College 1877 VOL 98, NO. 40 Williams Authori1ties ·t:\ Question Takeover The seizl!ue of HopkiHs Hall, an on building at Williams by the Afro-American Socie,ty, two weeks ago, has engendered a period of self-evaluation group relationships on the WiHiams campus. Students and faculty members at Williams viewed the disorders as proof that \the statements that 'things just don't change here' just are not true.\ The VP of the Afro-American · ·Society stated that \The support of white students came as a great suprise. It's a shame that it takes a crisis to bring discussion and interaction.\ The crisis developed when the AAS' fifteen demands, including a demand that Afro-Arne rican studies be .instituted at Williams, were rejected by the Williams administration, on the eve of the first anniversary of Martin Luther King's death. The AAS proceeded to occupy Hopkins Hall, abandoning it, \in immaculate order,\ only after the administration agreed to review their decision. One member of the administration noted that the participants in the take-over of Hopkins Hall were all from within the Williams College and Williamstown, Massachusetts community, where the school is .. located. A number of faculty members have expressed c.onfusion over the quiCk-moving events on their campus, but the general reaction seems to be that, as one sophomore put it, \Williams is a fantastically better place since this happened.\ Now that the blacks at WiUiams have discovered that many whites on campus are ready to work with them, at the same time that the whites have been made aware of the \depth of black feeling,\ the entire campus is working to set Williams in a new, enlightened direction. Herman to Speak Dr. Robert S. Herman, professor · of economics and public· administration and chairman of the · Department of Economics will address the annual meeting of the · New York State Economics • Association Saturday in Utica. His topic will be \Economics Issues of the 196 7 New York State . Consti tu tiona! Convention_\ At the time of his appointment · to the Union faculty this spring, he was Director for Higher Education of the New Yorlc State Joint Legislative Committee on Education. Prof. Herman was chief . staff officer of the 1967 state constitutional convention. -~LaFeber Discusses New Left U.S. Blamed For The Cold War our foreign policy, the Cornell historian said. That frame of mind got us involved in the ''horror\ of Viet Nam. SCHENECTADY, N.Y., APRIL 18, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS Theodore Sorensen Sorenson To Speak Farmer Presidential assistant Theodore Sorenson will participate in a panel discussion on \Reforming the Democratic Party,\ Tuesday, at 3:30 in SS 016. Joining Sorenson on the panel will be Stephen Berk, a history instructor here, Art McCabe, and Abby Stillman, senior political science majors. The panel discussion will be open to the public and questions from the floor will be answered. Following the discussion, Sorenson, the .guest of the Political Forum, will be in the Faculty Lounge of the Social Sciences Building. Students are welcome to speak with him there. Recently, Sorenson was chairman of the Advisory Committee of the New York State Democratic Party. Faculty Supports T:rustee's Decision The faculty voted unanimously yesterday in favor of coeducation in 1970 as recommended by the Board of Trustees Committee on Development and Long Range Planning. Little discussion preceded the vote. Final approval of coeducation must now come from the entire Board of Trustees who will hold a special meeting in New York City on April 14. No decision on college size or the Papondreou Cancelled Dr. Andreas Papandreou's scheduled appearance at Union College on April 23, when he was to have addressed an evening convocati0n, has been called off. John Girdner, Associate Professor of Psychology, said that he is attempting to arrange for Papandreou to deliver a speech here sometime in May. Girdner did not know why Papandreou cancelled the April 23 speech. Dr. Papandreou is the son of George Papandreou, the former Premier of Greece, and is himself a former Greek Minister of Economic Coordination. He is an outspoken opponent of the current Greek regime. ratio of men to women has been reached. Study Made A study by Harold Usher, Director of Physical Plant concerning estimated costs of housing coeds had been made. It assumed that the college size would grow to approximately 2200 students. The report calls for remodeling of Richmond House in the summer of 1970, renovation of North College in 1970-71, the construction of a new dormitory in 1971-72 and the remodeling of West College in 1972-73. Usher's report dated April 4 included the other following changes partially due to coeducation but mainly due to increased size: Remodeling of the gymnasium in the summer of 1970; the North Colonnade Infirmary, a Student Center, and renovation of space to be used as a faculty office building in 1971-72; and the expansion of the Library in 1972-73. A study of the physical plant will be made by the architects and members of the Trustees Committee on Development and Long Range Planning on May 10 and II in order to determine what changes will be made and how, should the trustees approve coeducation. RPI lbo: Biafrans Prefer Starvation To Extermination The Biafrans \would rather see our people slowly starve with the hope of someday being free than to see them exterminated now,\ according to the president of the Albany chapter of the Biafra Association. The historical interpretation that the United States' intolerance of revolutions in the developing countries _has led to problems like VietNam, was explained by Prof. Walter LaFeber last night at Union College. Prof. LaFeber, chairman of the ll<history department at Cornell University, spoke on \The Cold War and the Revisionists of the New Left\. . Revisionists of the New Left are historians who have not accepted the government's explanation of why the Cold War started. The Cornell Lenox Quartet Performs Tuesday Dr. John Amazigo, a Biafran with a Harvard Ph.D. who teaches mathematics at R.P.I., spoke last night to a Union-Skidmore International Relations club group. The Biafrans have declared their independence from Nigeria because they fear the \indiscriminate killing of the Ibo people, the well-planned execution of the educated elite in the country,\ Dr. Amazigo said. historian is considered to be one of the best of this group. According to Prof. LaFeber, the revisionists of the New Left see a '\fundamental error in the assumptions that governed American foreign policy after World War II: The li!Communist world is not an \ideological monolith\ LaFeber said. Soviet foreign policy after the war appears as a continuation of ' traditional Russian policy which can be drawn back to Peter the Great. American expansionism, not pommunist ideology, was the critical ·factor that led to the outbreak of the Cold War, the New Left revisionists contend. <.# The United States made the initial, critical moves after the Communist takeover of China in order to stop the \spiral of revolution .. Prof. LaFeber .I said. To the New Left rev:isionists, Stalin was not a \'fairy tale monster on the prowl\ but a Russian nationalist , making tactical responses to United ,States foreign policy initiatives. ' The New Left revisionists draw much of the data. fro their interpretation from basically domestic, rather than diplomatic sources, LaFeber said. The \fantastic oversees •growth\ of the American corporation · since 1950 undermines the critical nature of American opposition to ' . Communist ideology, he added. The Lenox Quartet will perform Tuesday at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The Lenox Quartet, artists-in-residence at Grinnell College, will present a concert at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday in Memorial Chapel, as part of the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series. Mozart's \Piano Quartet in E. Flat Major, K. 478,\ Kirchner's \Trio.\ and Ravel's \String Quartet in F\ will comprise the program, Since 1961, the Lenox Quartet has predominantly featured a classical-con temporary· romantic stylistic mixture when playing the normal three-major-works concert. When not on tour, the Lenox Quartet is at Grinnell College, Grinnell, Iowa. At Grinnell since 1962, the members of the quartet not only play 14 concerts a year there, but also provide lecture-concerts, regular ensemble coaching and private instruction, and teach some of the regular curriculum. Foundation's con temporary music program. The Fromm Foundation helped in the support of the quartet in its early years, including concerts featuring first performances of new compositions at the New School in New York and at the University of Chicago. Dr. Amazigo is an lbo. He is a 1964 graduate of R.P.I. . British ships are being used by the Nigerians to blockade the Biafran coast, Dr. Amazigo said. The British are supporting the Nigerian federal government because they would stand to lose their favorable economic status in the area. Biafra controls two-thirds of the petroleum deposits in Nigeria and would not make the concessions to the British that the Nigerians have, he added. Relief aid for the beleagured Biafran state has been hampered by the constant need for arms as well as food. They have only one airfield and if that is used solely for relief flights bearing food, then the Biafran armies would be defeated. Dr. Amazigo emphasized that defeat means genocide for the Biafrans. They got their first taste of this in 1966, six years after Britian gave Nigeria her independence. , I • 9 The idea of America's civilizing mission in the world has run through In the quartet are Peter Marsh, violin; Delmar Pettys, violin and viola; Paul Hersh, viola and piano; and Donald McCall, cello. The quartet takes its name from the town of its birth in 1958, Lenox, Mass. The group came into being when its members were on the faculty of the Berkshire Music Center at Tanglewood. During four summers they were on the staff of the Composition Department, and were involved with the Fromm The Lenox Quartet has done extensive taping for educational television, with their programs having wide distribution. Its great variety of educational presentations has given the quartet the backing of various state arts councils. Tuesday's con\ert is being presented With the support of the New York State Council on the Arts. In the summer of 1966, 30,000 Ibo in northern Nigeria were massacred in a three week fury of pogroms. Dr. Amazigo said that his people would be the victims of a genocide as awful as the Nazi murder of 6 million Jews if they gave up their fight for independence.

PAGE 2 Implementing Coeducation The vote of the Faculty yesterday, the unanimous recommendations of a Trustee committee, and favorable responses on several student and alumni opinion polls clearly indicate that Union will he coeducational in the autumn of 1970. We regret that it has taken the College so long to reach . this decision. But since we cannot change the past, or even the 1969-1970 school year for that matter, there is no use in complaining about the slowness of decision-making here. Now the College has to get down to the difficult task of accommodating another sex on campus. Four kinds of problems are evident now, a year and a half before any coeds arrive. First, the curriculum in many departments will have to be revised to suit the needs and demands of women. Second, the recruitment and selection of female students will pose problems that the present administration and admission department has never dealt· with. Third, en-campus living accomodations that can compete \vith those of other colleges will have to be provided, at first through the imaginative renovation of existing facilities. Finally, the engineering departments need special consideration because of the threat that coeducation poses to them. A special emphasis on engineering in student recruitment, a graduate pwgram in Division IV that is still in the early stages of committee consideration, and innovations in the undergraduate curriculum appear as possible alternatives. The admission of women will necessitate a re-examination of nearly every aspect of college life. · Inflexibility in any segment of the College during this time of change will serve only to reinforce the problems facing old Union. Part Two The second half of Center I courses of the Union College Course Evaluation for Winter, 1969, will be published in next Tuesday's issue of Concordiensis. \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.\ Publ&shed Tu~sday •nd Fr&day dur- . ln1 the school year by the Student Body of UmonCollege. Schenectady N.Y. National Advert&sLnl! Repre- aent it1ve: Nattonal Eclu<:\ataOfuil Adv~rtu&ng Serv&ce, Inc .. Coll<!ge ,PubiLahers RepresentatL,·e. .360 L~x•n&ton Avenue. N. Y, C. Edttoual OfflC.,, Old Gym, Un&on Colleii•· Publ&cat&on Off&ce, Whlle- hurst Prmling & Btnd&ng Co .. (nc .. 415-418 Ftfth Ave., Troy. 235-4450. Enh'r•d &n the Schene·ctady Post Off&« as Socond Clau MaLl Matt\'· Subscupt&on 20¢ a copy; $6 a year drlavered anywhere 1n the Un1ted States. NElL S. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WILUAM OUZER Managing Editor CARL GOLDSAND Business Manager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisscs, Henry Fein, Larry Friedman, Alan Mell. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Bim. Lloyd Birns. Bru~:c Husten, Ed Jerome, Jerry Levine, Jody Sus! ow, Michael Swirsky, Peter We ingold. STAFF Tony Beninati. Bruce Garber. Bill Holleran. Phil Galdston. Alan Greenfield. George Kaplan, Hank .Levine, Steve Levy, Stu Moss, Gary Prevost, Randy Sutter. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR APRIL1B, 1969 ~ Virtuoso To the Editor: Long have I awaited the presentatiun in CoRcordiensis of an arpcle with a fresh and exciting \viewpoint; one which wo1:1ld defme and eliminate many of the tragic problems facing our country and the world today. Never in my most hoepf1:1l anticipation would I have expected a work of such calibre and perceptioR as Steve Pierce's article, \The New Left: A Critical View.\ His satire on the critics of the New Left is, at once, staggering. It is through the fmest art, subtly using gross generalization) cleverly failing to define his subject, deftly misquoting the Beatles (the real ring-leaders behind the anarchistnc New Left) that Mr. Pierce is able to so completely capture the irrational, over- e motional hysteria prevalent among paronoic middle-aged housewives and single girls under fourteen. Only the sharpist irony could have inspired him to write about the New Left in such a left-handed, inarticulate manner. His virtuosisty in using trite and ambiguous phrases such as, \rearing its ugly head,\ ''big lie,\ and ••political deviates\ is monumental, if not extremely tiresome_ Even by plunging into the dim, far-distant past and emerging with so neglected and unknown a figure as Adolf Hitler, can Mr. Pierce suggest his uninformed, emotional meaning and demonstrate his profound political analysis of Conununism and Fascism. His work is evocative of apple pie, mother and other military war-heroes. My one criticism is in reference to the confusion of titles on the editorial page; why was this article not placed under the headline of \Blither?\ I am eagerly looking forward to his next satire, \Napalm and the Escalation of the Viet-namese War.\ For truly his last article was a masterful display of gentle innuendo. Masterful. Masterful. Masterful. Harry Mlller Class of'71 Kudos Editors, Concordiensis: Congratulations! Your recent issue of Concordy has revealed a great and ••original\ political analyst. For his asiute article on \The New Left,\ I give Steve Pierce the George Wallace award for cunning use of generalizations, the Mayor Daley award for subtlety, the Adolph Hitler award for use of \barbaric\ scapegoats, the Richard Nixon award for crystal clearness, the Spiro Agnew award for alienation, the Abbey Hoffman-Mark Rudd award for being so positive and for clearly deftning objectives, and lastly, the Dailey News award for misquoting and mis-interpreting a record which sold eleven-million copies. Mr. Pierce truly takes his place among the great bureaucrats (both left and right) of our times. Phil Kras '71 Preiudice To the Editor: It was with great disappointment that I read about the college's ifltention to set aside the fourth floor of South college for Union's black students. Though I hope that one day tl1e disavowal of the stigma of being prejudiced will prove to be unnecessary, in these days of bristling sensitivities, one cannot be too careful. So I shall say that I respect every individual for his own sake, and care not what his color is. As a matter of fact, I see the new housing arrangement as being dangerous to the well-being of the black person. His dignity, as that of every man, should have its source in his own personal qualities, and should not stem from the sense of identity that segregated grouping causes. My chief concern, however, is to remind those who agree with the above housing arrangement that it is in contradicition to those ideals of equality and brotherhood toward which our country strives. The arrangement may pacify some of our students; it may be practical; it may be expedient. But the plan sacrifices our ideals to expediency. Let us cherish our ideals! A few years ago if we were to read the \Union's (white) students will have preference in signing up for a room\ in a dormitory we would rightly condemn such action. I believe we would say the same even now. Relief Committee Meets Last week the Social Relief Committee held its organizational meeting and pledged service to the needy in Schenectady. Primarily, the Social Relief Committee Will work in conjunction with the Commissioner of Welfare's Offtce. When emergency needs come up that cannot be handled by overburdened social workers, the Social Relief Conunittee will respond by sending one or a group of its members to the need at hand. Such needs include rides to the hospital, emergency delivery of food, search for a lost child, investigating reported circumstances, or any of a number of odd situations that are part and parcel of the lives of the poor. Also, if time and interest are favorable, the committee will address itself to broader questions such as 1:he food distribution problem in Schenectady which is in a current state of crisis. Anyone interested in joining the committee or participating in its activities can call Philip DiSorbo at 372-3445. JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RAT6S FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Rear -·-·-·-·-·-·---·-·-·----·-·--- DEWITT'S T T I Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages I • 1 lB - 120 JAY STREET ~---·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-.-.-.-.- I ask the college to reconsider her negotiations with the Black alliance. Let her not aid the attempt to create a new form of unfairness. Let her not foster racial isolation; which has never taught men to see through the skin and to love each man \as a brother. Nicolas Cava '69 Tha,nks To the Editor: The brothers of Sigma Chi would like to thank those who supported the First Ammal Union College ••spring Fever\ Clambake, especially Acme Press and the Utica Club Brewers. The pwceeds, which amounted to more than $200 will be given to the Wallace Village, a center for the treatment and rehabilitation of children with brain damage. The Wall ace Village, located in Broomfteld, ,Colorado is Sigma Chi's international service project and is in its 25th year, having served children from all fifty states and other nations. Last year the Village returned 29 of its students to normal lives in their home communities and schools. Because of the success of the project this year, we intend to make this an annual event. We hope we can again count on your support next year. The Brothers of Sigma Chi New Middle To the Editor: Once past the circuitous metaphors employed by Steve Pierce in \The New Left: A Critical View,\ one is faced with, as Jonathan Swift would have said, \things which are not.\ Mr. Pierce says, \(the Left's) articulateness is limited to four-letter obscenities ... \ and decries that fact. Leaving aside for the moment d1e obvious facli that Mr. Pierce has been chosen fmal arbitrator as to what (if anything) consitutes obscenity, it is- interesting to note that he\ has forgotten that Champion of {the} Right, William F. Buckley, :c~lled Gore Vidal a \go~ damned queer\ on Uve, coast-to-coast television. Mr. 'Pierce says that the real spokesmen of our generatioo will come from the silent majority of today. The non sequitur of speaking silence ('\Sounds of Silence\?) aside this is simply not true. \Th~ For gotten Man\ to whom Richard Nixon so openly, panders today was also fergotten yesterday and will be so tomorrow. The man in the middle is motivated by money;• purely and simply, not by honor or power, as are the Left and Right, respectively. And the man in the middle will keep questing' .for money until he has enough to satisfy him, which will be nevet, because he lacks thq creativity to make much money. Aml if he had creativity and imagination, then he would not be hungering after the Buck in the first place. Ike carne from ,the middle, guys, but there is no way he was a leader. Finally, since Mr. Pierce is' preferring advice from popular songs, I will resist the temptation to recite to hirr,~ \Street Fighting Man,\ and instead, suggest he tum his Beatles' ••Revolution\ record over. There he will find: \'Hey Jude, don't make it bad; Take a bad song, and make it. better.\ Ray Krise, Jr. '71 That Great Sport Jacke-t Most sport jackets look like uniforms-the same plaids, the same checks. Not this Deansgate wool-and-silk collection. They're all slightly off the beaten path, but they're all in good taste, which is what Deansgate is all about. Added . virtue: Deansgate's own under- stated soft shoulder construction. In a colorful array of plaids, checks and solids. From $60. Deansgate® Dall's Men's Shop .. ) .: ·-· .. 1599 UPPER Ut-.IION STREET , ... • ,. .. .._ •.) ... (' ... . . ., 10 -- .... ~~ 0'\W -lw ' w w ~w 10'\-' ..,.6 00 -- ..,. .... \\ Oo~ 001;-l .... 'T' ........ c, .... v.b 00 -- .... \->.- . ' - Vl w'?' \-> \-> o' ~~ 00 10 -- \' ..... -J \'b -4 • w w oc? • 0 10 ..,. 10 -- ..,.<? • 0 \' ' ...:~<? w w ob- ~-:I -4 10 -- w ,_..._, Oo~ '-00'\ ? ..... o,_. Oo6 -J 10 -- \-> !'->~ \'w -Jw ~ 1;-l -o ~~ ,_.N 10 -- ~:!: -4.- 00~ w ~ >-t-> ow Ww

p 0 c: tr:l en tO c: tr:l ·en N 0 c: tr:l en w 0 c: tr:l en \\\' 0 c: tr:l en tJl 0 c::: tT1 Vl 0\ 0 c::: tT1 Vl -..) 0 c::: tT1 lZl eo 0 c::: tT1 lZl 'I:> 0 c::: tT1 Cll .... 0 0 c::: tTl Vl .... '· ,.J ' '> ,. -1 :r m c: z 0 z, (\') 0 r r m G)' m 0 0 c jJ (f) m m < J::>\J r c: ~ c z fJ )> \1:1 ~ .. r ... .oo .... co .• Ci) co \t' )>' G) m r w..,~. ' 'G PAGE 3 Net:s Defeat Bard To Break Two Year String Of Losses Orpheus will headline Spring Weekend with a performance at 8:30p.m., April 25, in Memorial · <If Chapel. Smokey Robins()n and Miracles will provide entertainment the following night at 8:30p.m. in the Field House. Tickets are on sale for $8 a couple for both performances and $3.50for the single perfo1mance of Smokey Robinson. 't Taking fou. r of the first six singles matches, Coach Robert Benson's ,tHe{ men handily :trow1ced visiUng Bard College Wednescjay, for thci.r first wi11 in two years. JdfKur:zius and Jeff South chinchcd the win, with an easy 6-2 vic~ory over their first ~doubles .oppon~n ts . Th~e sec on G! doubles, composed of Steve Karp and Alan Meise'!, :J1 ad to come from behind after lasing the first set 4-6 to win the next two sets, 6-3 and 6-2. :nis win gave the Garnet an overall 6-3 victory for the aftemoom. As describ<l by a teammate, K u rziu.s ·~crusJ>layed excellent placement\ and put the ball where his Otpponent wasn't, in winning his ~ingles 9-7, 6-3. South made it two for the Garnet by cOtnsistently hitting ibis booming ~erve, winning a close 6-4, T~s match. Ron Phi Delta Theta is sponsoring a campus blood drive on April 29th and 30th in conjunction with the American Red Cross. The drive will take place in the gym from 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. on Tuesday the 29th and from 11 a.m. · 5 p.m. on Wednesday the thirtieth. Sign up sheets have been posted in all dormitories and fraternities, and representatives will be in all living units to answer any questions about donating blood. A keg of beer will be awarded to the living unit with the highest percentage of registered donors. ·BLITHER . \ ·c l The blood collected in this drive will be given without charge to patients. in hospitals in Northeastern New York. The need for blood is great - 600 pints are needed each month in Schenectady County. Without a constant supply of blood donors, hospitals would be forced to buy blood and sell it to patients. The price for a pint of blood in areas where there is no volunteer program can be as high as $75. By giving blood here, a donor insures that he and his family will be able to receive blood free from any hospital in the United States. Every person over 18 years old, with no history of hepatitis or malaria is eligible to give blood up to 4 times a year. At a recent blood drive at Skidmore there were 324 registered donors. This is more donors than Union has ever had, but we have set it as our goal for 1969. We need your help. Petitions for s itt dents running for class office may now be picked up at the Student Activities office. Petitions should be turned in by Thursday, April 24. Primary elections will be held Monday, April 28, and run-off elections will be Tuesday, April 29. There will be a Senior class meeting on Tuesday, April 22, at 11:30 a.m. in SS 016. All Seniors are requested to attend. President Martin's open forum will be held in Davidson House's Lounge Tuesday, April 22, at 7 p.m. The public has been invited. North Co.ltlege will again be used as a 'hate) for Spring Weekend. All irr.terested students should see Nrs. Marra in the Student ActiV\ifies office. President ·flclartin will speak .on \College Education and its Costs\ Sunday, April20, from 3 to 5 p.m. at Ph:i Sigma Kappa. The informal discussion will be open t() the public. Discussion Group On Trial The big h·others of Union College will h()ld a meeting on Wednesday, A.pril 23, at 4:30 p.m. in SS 016. The purpose of the meeting w:ill be ,to plan the annual picni.c and to elect new .officers. All IJresent Big Brothers must at ten d . --,-~-~~- The Block U Society will be running a pefreshment stand at all lacrosse and base ball games. Ice cream, hot dogs, candy, chips, and s:oda _will be offered_ <t Not to interfere witlJ the cui tural-spiritual Renaissance which is fast taking Union in flames, but the speeding Literary Discussion Group has want of some of the dynamic energy which is fomenting the inaudible revolution that is the first witne.ss of this campus. Thursday of last week, Aprill 0, a cold night of wind and c~ mystery, the Literary Discussion Group met in sh.ining expectation. The Gods watched the torrents of students trickle l into the Humanities Building Lounge, a number so small as to defy computation. : 1 We realize that many here cling to the philosophy that \books are the graveyard of mankind,\ and whereas. we .r cannot define the limit to which one can improve his mind before he destroys it, we are urged to 3 point out the many benefits derived from books and reading in general. How, for instance, could we distinguish batluooms .<f and stop signs and other household conveniences? Let us suggest to any who are even vaguely aware of the !I' The PIPEMAN'S \ SMOKE SHCP 262 Saratoga Ro<ld MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER f At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. al•o THURS. and FRI.: 7 Jo 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630· By HARRY MILLER ambiance of academia in the curriculum and, despite it, can still enjoy literature that on Tuesday of next week, at 7:30 p.m., April 22, also a cold night of wind and mystery, the Literary Discussion Group will be having Franz Kafka in the Humanities Building Lounge. Franz Kafka, nonchalant, devil-may-care man-about-town, star of stage, screen, and television, and recent paramour of Elizabeth Taylor or some other noted scholar. We will be discussing his book, The Trial, which he wrote after he produced his fitst fllm. This book contains the three eP' ... • J1' A e ,. A • J1' A e ,. A e rAe -, TAKE OUT SERVICE ~ a.., Hot Dogs- Homburgs • • Hot Meals- Fish Fries \''I ., .. ~ CAVALIERS ~ .. . e Open Monday thru Friday 'Ill ., 6 A.M.- 1 A.M. a.., a.. Friday and Saturday • e 6 A.M. - 4 A.M. , ~ Corner Erie Blvd. ... • & J efler son St. • Phone 346-9153 , .. .... ,.A.P\A. .... ,.A.,. .... ,. Acme Barber Shop 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students elements which will determine the metaphysical implications of the just man, beer, sex, and baseball. Besides these qualities, there are elements of confusion, frustration, and alienation with which the whdle family can identify. Anyone in teres ted in discussing The Trial is invited. Motorcycle Insurance 1\:iONACO AGENCY, INC. FS-1 SameDay 30 N. Erie Blvd. Tel. 393·3646 Americm Telephone and Telegraph Coltilpany, Long Lines Department will be on campus Tuesday, At:Jril 22, 1969 for interviews for summer work. They are interested in juniors or students with 1 year of study remaining :be fore graduation. The sign-up sheet is ready at the Placement Oifi ce in Wells House. Come over ~n d sign for a time that is con-ve'Jlient for you. Now·s The Time To MARRY ME Spring ca1c!Ies a yo11ng man's fancy Buy your W~<ling Ring at Maurice Cii!kUbart & Sons Jewelers, 166- Jay S 1. Serving Unio-n for 3 g~nerations. , ... AN OVERGit()UND SEX-PROTES'T FILM!\ -Ne~<~~Y\orl< Post Today at 7:.30 and 9:30 By BRUCE GARBER Wendolowski went down fighting as he lost a tight match in three, hard played sets. Karp looked good at fourth singles, hantlily disposing of his opponent, 6-3, 6-1, with <:~gressive netplay and tough overhead slams. Meisel, whose game was off, lost in two sets, but Jack Liu quickly squelched any Bard hopes of victory by taking the last singles match. Liu and Andy Blumenthal teamed up at third doubles, but relaxed, knowing the match was all wrapped up, and lost in a close duel. Saturday tfue Bensonmen face Stevens Tech at home, and wili be shooting for a second victory. These first few games are crucial, both physically and psychologically, for the toughest matches are yet to come, and experience and confidence will make the difference, when the netrnen face such tough squads as Hamilton and Rochester. F·rosh Lacrosse Looks To Strong Defense, Fi.ne Attack By HANK LEVINE \Our strength is our defense,\ says Coach Brown while commenting on his freshman lacrosse squad. Coach Brown has begun this year's campaign with more experience than past Garnet freshman lacrosse teams. His first string defense, composed of Ed Young, Gary Drummond, Torn Reif, and goalie Bob Erlandson all played lacrosse while in high school. Coach Brown has high hopes for his goalie, \who has looked good in workouts against the varsity.\ The Garnet offense displayed their prowess in defeating Stevens, 21-2, last weekend. Brown, however, is quick to point out that the \meat\ of the schedule is yet to come. Dave Block, Mark Sanderson, and John White are the Gamet's attackmen while Bill Waldren, Kenny Rosenthal and Norman Stavin comprise the first midfield line. In their opening contest, the three attackmen mentioned above accounted for eight Garnet goals, while the rnidfielders accounted for nine of the 21 tallies. The freshman squad will face Colgate, Cortland, and Syracuse in the weeks to come, schools which should \represent a real challenge.\ Brown is t:eluctant to make pre dictions about the final outcome of the season, although a defmite tone of optimism pervades his thinking: \We're going to be characterized by a good defense... If our balanced scoring pattern continues, we will have a good year.\ NORTH END The North End Coffeehouse will open with John Nicolay and Phil Robinson, from 9 to 12 p.m. tonight in Bronner House. Nicolay, has a wide repertoire ranging from Donovan to Judy Collins. Nicolay has been playing 12-string guitar for six years and was the winner of the college talent show during Fall Weekend. robinson, a veteran North End performer, plays a deft 6-string guitar while singing a wide variety of songs in a bossa nova vein. -----------------------------------------------~ Down to Louis', let us go, Lflt the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR 74th YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 You keep Aunking your best subject? Think it ove~ over coffee. The Think Drink. For your own Th•nk Or•nk Mug, send 75C and your name and address to: Th,nl< Dr.nk Mug. Dept. N, P 0 Box 559. N.:owYork, NY. 10046. ThPinttornat·onaiColfeeOrgan,ziH•on

C·oncordy Sports PAGE 4 Stickmen Excell In Hobart Loss Wednesday afternoon's 13-9 loss to Hobart leaves the Garnet lacrosse team with a 1-2 mark for the season, and a more encouraging prognosis for the rest of their campaign. By JAY BLITZMAN position. . DeMicheb, who was a doubtful starter, was slowed by a 1 eg injury, and Mo11ahan sustained an ankle injury early in th.e game. Dugan's play gave the Garnet a big lift, as the middie took his share of faceoffs. The score at half \Yas a surprising 5-4; tl1e Garnet had more then held their own against their highly regarded adversaries, and All-American candidate Frank Boyar had been held in check. again despite the efforts of the Hobart netminder who almost turned aside the attempts by Dugan and Duval. Tile third period ended with the count at 9-8; following their remarkable comeback the Garnet were still ve1y much in the gan1e. Hobart immediately dispelled the illusion of a possible upset in the fourth period, c1mtscoring Union 4-1, as Boyar hit for three goals and assisted on the fourth. APRIL 18, 1969 N:eidel Top·s Panthers, 1-0 Face Steven'S Here Sa,f. \! (G---- VOL. 98, ~ By IUI:L HOLLERAN In a rain-soaked game that was ·called after five innings •of .play, the baseball team slJUt out the Middlebury Panthers 1 '0 on Wednesday afternoon. The key to the Garnet 'victory was the strong, one-hit pitching of right-hander Bill Neidel, who gave up only a first-inningsingle, struck out eight, and ·yaJ:ked • none in his five innings of work. He was nearly invincible in the early innings, fanning six of the first ten men he faced. The Garnet hitters were held to only one base hit by the Middlebury pitching, but that one was key. Leading off the t third inning for the Garnet, Jim Wilson, the right fielder, laced a pitch deep to center field and , . slid into third base with a triple. ~Se1 (fRO The stat under heav: <i' of the Stu< Playing in a sporadic rainfall which became progressively worse as the contest reached its latter stages, Hobart gained an early lead in the first minute of play and led at the end of the stanza by a 3-1 margin. The Garnet marker carne on a pretty shot by attackman Doug Duval. The action in the period was dominated by the men from Geneva: Hobart controlled play at midfield, winning faceoffs and containing Union in their defensive zone. Rockwell and Bruce Dugan enabled the Garnet to outscore their opposition 3-2 in the period. Bruce Westby triggered the Garnet offense with his deft passing; during the afternoon the former crease attack now on the point collected six assists and a goal. The injury to Wayne Christie and Ken Lorenze 's decision not to play had depleted Coach Allison's supply of attackmen. Mike Chater was installed at the crease, and Westby an<! Duvall were put bn the points. Chater's quick stick has offset his lack of speed; he leads the squad in goals scored, largely as a consequence of Westby's clever playmaking. Hobart began the final half with the ostensinle intention of obliterating their opponents as tliey pumped in four goals in a matter of minutes, capitalizing on defensive errors and a Garnet letdown, almost inevitable after the squad's intense effort in the first half. Sened.icf, Friers Roll Jl7l He scored moments later, sliding Iinder the Panther catcher's tag at the plate after Ron Gidlow • had lofted a sacrifice fly to center. were prese ROTC of II< another removed a To Take Bowl Doubles Tit:fe campus. Great Second Quarter The Garnet defense in the second period was formidable. Pup Goulet Don DeMichele and Kevin Monahan, were effective in protecting sophomore goalie Ed Green, who made several spectacular saves during the afternoon and continues his rapid improvement at the Ry GARY PREVOST The rains had come in ,the r/ second inning, and by the time 11 At nex Senate will motions to Recon The Garnet's performance in the second quarter was a reversal of their early form, as they carried the play and exerted offensive pressure on the statesman defense. Tallies by middies Steve Bauer, John Midway through the period the Garnet struck back as Mike Chater converted a Westby pass m a stick shot for the Garnet's first goal of the period. Dugan, Rockwell and Duval each tallied Tom Benedict and Jack Friers combined for a 1171 total to win the season-ending doubles tournament of the :Dutch Classic League recently. Benedict paced the triumph with a fine 668 triple, compiled on games of Track Falls To Trinity; Frosh Romp By HENRY FEIN When sportswriters talk of a \rebuilding\ year, they are usually euphcrnizing over a miserable season's record. But in the case of the Garnet varsity track team, the term is quite apt. Even the most optimistic Dutchmen look to no better than .500 this year, but next year should be a considerably different story. This was made quite clear Wednesday, as the varsity cindermen fell to visiting Trinity, 85·54, while the frosh crushed their Ban tam foes, 100-39. Freshman cinder star Rick J aszack winning the 440-yard run against Trinity here on Wednesday. He also won the 220 and anchored the victorious frosh mile relay. Photo by Charles Long. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutme.ats from all over the world. 4()6 STATE ST. With a squad short on depth, Coach Ron Coleman has been severly hampered by injuries and illness to key personneL Junior Carl Thurn, who is a proven winner in all running events from the 100 to the mile, is still suffering from mononucleosis, and his status for tl1e season is cloudy at best. Sophomore Bob Berger, who was expected to take over from Fritz Turner at the high jump, will miss the full season due to mono. Among those out for the squad this season, injuries have be-en crucial. Sophomore Harold Heckman, another outstanding all-around runner, has sustained a leg injury that will keep him out of action for at least a week. Middle clistance man Dave Gray pulled a muscle at the start of Wednesday's 440, and was thus lost for that event, as well as the 100 and the mile relay. Winners for the Garnet were · Ed Blechner in the discus, with a toss of 123' I 0\ Norm Lasda in the long jump (20'8~\) Mario Fischetti in the 440 hurdles (6 1.1 ), Paul Elliot in the 120 hurdles (17.9), and Joe Burgess in thetwo-mile(10:27.1). Others of note were Pete Elicson, (second in the 220 and third in the 440), Terry McMannus, (second in the 880 and mnner-up in the triple jump), Fischetti (second in the 120 hurdles), and George Gardner (second in the discus and third in the shot put). The frosh romp was the result of a fine all-around team effort, one that bodes well for the future. Especially in the running events, the young cindennen showed considerable depth and talent. Perhaps the biggest star of the afternoon was Rick J aszack, who rang up a total of 12\4 points, triumphing in the 440 (51.4), and the 220 (23.9), leading a sweep of the latter, taking third in the Pie Vault, and anchoring the victorious mile relay. Former frosh Cross Country stars Paul Forbes and Brian Moeckel showed they are still in top form. Forbes took the mile run, while Moeckel easily beat all the distance men, both frosh and varsity, as he was clocked in a fine 1 0.08.2 for the two miles. This afternoon, the cindermen will host Rochester on Alexander Field. Tuesday, the varsity entertains New Paltz at 2:00, while both varsity and frosh travel to St. Lawrence on April 26. ______ _ Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES LU~CH 7'1. 5 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - { Servir~g Schenectady Since 1921 , Mon.-Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri,-Sat. 7 A.M.-4 A..M. Sun. 9 A.M.-1 A.M. - 221, 223, and 224. One v.reek ago, Benedict rolled a 672 triple to pace his Team No. 9 .to the Dutch Classic Team ti tie. the last of the fifth had been played, the grounds, the spectators, and the players were ll · •• thoroughly soaked. In the top of The Stw Curricul Finishing in second place in the doubles event was the team of A1 Case and Tony Woods, who rolled a 1122. The duowas paced by Case's 246-649. In other bowling action last week, Don Hovey's 638 tFiple highlighted the opening ·e>f the Dutch Oassic Singles league. the sixth, the umpires decided to- interrupt play and wait for the 1'1 downpour to end, but when the rain did not subside after about half an hour, the umps called the game and the Dutchmen had ' their first victory of the spring. The Dutchmen will try to make it two straight tomorrow 1 afternoon when they take on the Stevens Tech nine on Alexander Field, .starting a 2:30p.m. THE BLAZER • NOW I t • • • I • \' recommen credit frorr last night's ((\ recommend second alt Robert Lan ~~ Lange dropping ' ROTC but <..1': unit from i the college' Force throu Rig Lange d infringed u ~ supports Rl my support .. Most ~ supporting morally--~ because the •• The Sen: folio wing tl constituent~ li did 1101 majority-r basically in rto individual r cooperate college is de w Lange sa not pass th€ c issue \furth specify to \' referred. In other \ Divisional l\ later than t< , abolition c examination Disc1 Eli oi bili t) ,,. ,. also discuss( for other C< t •. . .. is the blazer \then as far as we are con- cerned. Classics like this change little, please always .. \Now we add a ring scarf, possibly, or suggest you :blaze away in fresh colors. But our classic once ruore proves it is one. $4~ :95 to $60.00 w~t ~Ql!!t!rR!b!lP Reac ©

-\ APRIL 18, 1969 PUBLISHED BY CONCORDIENSIS PAGE L-1 The Union College Course Evaluation Questions #1-11 Winter 196. 9 ' By DICK DANIEL and BOB SALTZMAN Printed on these pages is part of the winter term course evaluation report. Cen tcr I courses appear today while future supplements will contain those for Center II. This report is a straight statistical analysis of the data collected from Union students during registration. As one will notice from the data, the response varied widely between courses. Therefore, there is no good measure of an overall response. Because of the generally low response, no attempt will be made by the evaluation editors to interpret the data such as the publication Linebacker has done in the past. The student or faculty member sh,ould make his own determinations from the data. COURSE INSTRUCTOR RRT/ENROLL CED-010-01 Kilburn R 10 16 63% CED-010-02 Gado R 12 17 71% CED-010-03 Thurston R 10 16 63% CED-010-04 Foster R 11 17 65% CED-0 10-05 Murphy R 11 16 69 CED-0 10-06 Kilburn R 10 17 59% CED~010-07 Harvey R 14 18 78% CED-011-01 Gillette R 8 16 50% CED-Oll-02 Bick R 8 16 50% CED-0 11-03 C. Swartz R 12 18 67% CED~011-04 Lambert R 11 18 61% CED-011-05 Lanese R 8 12 67% CED-0 11-06 J. Daniels R 9 17 53% CED-011-07 Peaxce R 11 17 65% CED-018-01 Schick p 14 19 74% CED-018-09 George p 9 20 45% CED-018-10 Finklestein p 10 14 71% CED-018-11 Palmer p 9 16 56% • '!. J .. .. Courses with seventy per cent response out of an enrollment of twenty or better will probably yield some very meaningful information. Courses with response between fifty and seventy-five per cent should be analyzed very carefully. Anything below fifty per cent should generally be considered meaningless. The only possible exception might be courses with extremely high enrollment. When the course evaluation was started, a chief use of it was thought to be as a guide for students planning a curriculum. A student should be warned against dismissing a course or professor if fifty per cent of twenty students enrolled considered either a disaster. To explain this \stock report\ type of printout, I have chosen CED-0 10-02 as my example. (This is Camp. Ed. 10, section 2.) All QUES !I QUES 2 courses are identified by their numerical code. Reading across we fmd that Professor Gada taught tllis course (in fact, this information may have been changed without our knowledge) and that it was a recitation section (R-resitation, X-lecture, P-project, L-lab, S-serninar). The next two numbers tell one that 12 out of 17 enrolled students reported for a percentage of 71 per cent. 24 columns of numbers now follow; one for each question. The actual questions are printed in this issue. One will notice the numbers take the form X-A-B-C-D-E. X is the total number of students answering a given question with a valid response (1-5). A through E are the percentages responding to answers 1-5 respectively. (If there, were people who didn't answer the question or answers more than one QUES 3 QUES 4 choice, the percentages may not add to 100 since the percentages are based on the total number of responses for the course). As applied to question 1 in our example, we find that 12 students answered question 1; What is your present cumulative index? l. 3.30 or higher 2. 2. 70 to 3.29 3. 2.30 to 2.69 4. 1.70 to 2.29 5. below 1.69 Zero per cent or no students had an index of 3.30 or above, twenty-five percent or three students were between 2.70 and 3.29, twenty-five percent /3 between 2.30 and 2.69; 42 percent or five between 1.70 and 2.29 and eight percent /1 below 1.69. The number Y (3.303 in our ex.) is the arithmetic mean of the numerical Continued on page 2 QUESTIONS 1. Your present cummulative index is: (I) 3.30 or higher (2) 2.70 to 3.29 (3) 2.30 to 2.69 (4) 1.70 to 2.29 (5) below 1.70 2. Your grade for the course was: (1) A,(2) B,(3) C,(4) D,(5) F 3. Considering the amount of work that you did, your interest in the course, and your comprehension of the material presented, what grade do you think you fairly deserved? (I) A, (2) B, (3) C, (4) D, (5) F 4. How open was the instructor to new ideas, analysis differing from his own, and/or interpretations differing from his own? (I) Very open to student interpretation (2) Open, but generally leary of student viewpoints. (3) Sometimes open, sometimes not. ( 4) Willing to accept only views which coincide with his. (5) Closed and not receptive. 5. The instructor's presentation of the course material was basically ... QUES 5 QUES 6 QUES 7 QUES 8 (1) lecture. (2) lecture with some discussion. (3) equal lecture and discussion. (4) discussion with some lecture. (5) discussion. For the following statements, please indicate your response by the numbers: (1) Strong agreement. (2) Agreement. (3) No opinion. ( 4) Disagreement. (5) Strong disagreement. 6. The instructor was greatly interested in the material being taught. 7. The instructor clearly defined the objectives of the course. 8. The instructor's presentation of the material greatly aided the understanding of the course material. 9. Daily preparation for class is necessary for the understanding of class lecture and discussion. 10. The instructor stimulated the student to think about material beyond the course requirements. I I. The instructor was organized in his presentation of the course material. QUES 9 QUES. 10 QUES. 11 10/ 10-10-20-50-10 10/10-30-60-0-0 10/ 20-70-l 0-0-0 10/ 30-30-30-10-0 10/ 0-0-20-40-40 10/ 30-7 0-0-0-0 10/ 0-40-20-30-10 10/ 10-30-40-0-20 10/ 20-20-40-20-0 10/ 10-0-60-30-0 10/10-10-50-20-10 3.40 1.11 2.50 0.67 1.90 0.54 2.20 0.98 4.20 0.75 1.70 0.46 3.10 1.04 2.90 1.22 2.60 1.02 3.10 0.83 3.10 1.04 12/ 0-67-33·0·0 2.33 0_47 12/ 0-8~92-0-0 2.92 0.28 12/ Q-25-25-42-8 3.33 0.94 12/25-8-33-25-8 2.83 1.28 11/17·25-25-25-0 2.64 1.07 12/ 50-25-17-0-8 1.92 1.19 12/17-25-25-17-17 12/17-25-8-33-17 2.92 1.32 3.08 1.38 10/ 8-0-17-42-17 3.70 1.10 12/ 17-33-17-0-33 3.00 1.53 12133-17-33-17-0 2.33 1.10 HJ/ 10-70-20-0-0 2.10 0.54 10/ 0-30-50-10-10 3.00 0.89 10/10-70-20-0-0 2.10 0.54 10/ 20-70-0-10-0 2.00 0.77 10/ 70-10-0-20-0 1.70 1.19 10/ 10-0-10-30-50 4.10 1.22 1 0/ 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 10/ 30-40-20-10-0 10/ 10-50-10-30-0 2.10 0.94 2.60 1.02 10/ 40-40-0-20-0 2.00 1.10 10/40-40-10-0-10 2.00 1.18 10/ 27-55-9-0-0 1.80 0.60 11/18-36-27-9-9 2.55 1.16 11/ 18-45-36-0-0 2.18 0.71 11/ 0-18-45-36-0 11/ 0-27-0-45-27 3.18 0.71 3.73 1.14 10/ 18,36-18-18-0 2.40 1.02 11/ 0-45-9-45-0 3.00 0.95 11/ 27-45-18-9-0 2.09 0.90 11/ 18-36-27-9-9 2.55 1.16 11/ 0-36-27-18-18 3.18 1.11 11/ 9-45-27-18-0 2.55 0.89 10/ 9-27-55-0-0 2.50 0.67 81 0-0-73-0-0 3.00 0.00 11/0-18-27-36-18 3.55 0.98 10/9-9-18-36-18 11/ 9-27-0-18-45 3.50 1.20 3.64 1.49 11/ 36-36-27-0-0 1.91 0.79 11/ 0-9-27-27-36 3.91 0.99 11/18-27-45-9-0 2.45 0.89 11/ 0-36-18-27-18 3.27 1.14 11/ 9-36-27-18-9 2.82 1.11 11/ 27-18-18-36-0 2.64 1.22 10/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 0.63 10/ 10-20~10-60-0 3.20 1.08 10/10-40-50-0-0 2.40 0.66 10/10-60-20-10-0 10/10-30-20-10-30 2.30 0.78 3.20 1.40 10/ 0·0-10-48-50 4.40 0.66 10/40-20-30-10-0 2.10 1.04 10/ 30-60-10-0-0 1.80 0.60 10/ 40-30-0-30-0 2.20 1.25 10/ 40-40-0-10-10 2.10 1.30 9/ 10-30-30-20-0 2.67 0.94 13/ 36-29-29-0-0 1.92 0.83 14/ 21-14-14-36-14 3.07 1.39 13/ 14-50-14-14-0 2.31 0.91 D/14-21-43-7-7 14/ 7-0-29-50-14 2.69 1.07 3.64 0. 97 14/ 0-0-0-57-43 4.43 0.49 13/ 86-0-0-0-7 1.31 1.07 13/21-36-14-21-0 2.38 1.08 14/ SQ-21-14-7-7 2.00 1.25 13/ 29-36-7-21-0 2.23 1.12 12/71-0-7-0-7 1.50 1.19 8/ 25-50-25-0-0 2.00 0.71 8/13-13-38-25-13 3.13 1.17 8/ 25-63-13-0-0 1.88 0.60 8/ 50-25-13-0-13 2.00 1.32 8/ 25-50-0-13-13 2.38 1.32 8/ 13-50-25-13-0 2.38 0.85 8/ 50-38-0-13-0 1.75 0.97 8/75-13-0-13-0 1.50 1.00 8/ 25-50-13-0-13 2.25 1.20 8/ 38-0-38-13-13 8/ 13-13-13-25-38 2.63 1.41 3.63 1.41 8/ 38-38-25-0-0 1.88 0.78 81 25-0-25-25-25 3.25 1.48 7 I 25-38-25-0-o 2.00 0.75 8/ 0-38-25-13-25 81 0-25-0-50-25 3.25 1.20 3.75 1.09 8} 13-38-38-0-13 2.63 1.11 8/ 38-25-25-13-0 2.13 1.05 8/ 13-13-0-.38-38 3.75 1.39 8/ 13-38-25-13-13 2.75 1.20 8/ 6 3-13-25-0-0 1.63 O.S6 8/ 25-13-25-25-13 2.S8 1.36 12/ 25-50-17-8-0 2.08 0.87 12/ 8-33-33-25-0 2.75 0.92 12/ 0-33-67-0-0 2.67 0.47 12/ 0-8-17-33-42 4.08 0.95 12/ 0-17-17-8-58 4.08 1.19 12/ 8-8-42-0-42 3.58 1.32 121 25-17-33~0-25 2.83 1.46 12/ 17-17-8-25-33 3.42 1.50 12/ 0-0-33-8-58 12/ 0-0-0-25-75 4.25 0.92 4.75 0.44 121 25-0-8-0-6 7 3.83 1.72 11/ 36-45-9-9-0 1.91 0.90 11/ 36-45-18-0-0 1.82 0.71 11/ 27-73-0-0-0 1.73 0.45 111 55-9-27-0-9 2.00 1.28 10/ 9-27-9-9-36 3.40 1.50 11/ 9-64-9-9-9 2.45 1.07 111 55-18-9-0-18 2.09 1.51 9/ 36-27-0-18-0 2.00 1.15 10/9-36-18-18-9 101 0-18-0-36-36 2.80 1.17 4.00 1.10 10/ 18-5 5-9-9-0 2.10 0.83 8/ 38-63-0-0-0 1.63 0.49 8/ 0-25-63-13-0 2.88 0.60 8/ 0-38-63-0-0 2.63 0.49 8/ 0-13-13-38-38 4.00 1.00 8/ 13-25-25-25-13 3.00 1.22 8/ 13-0-0-38-50 4.13 1.27 7/ 13-13-50-0-13 2.86 1.13 8/ 0-25-13-25-38 3.75 1.20 8/ 0-13-0-38-SQ 8/ 0-0-25-13-63 4.25 0.97 4.38 0.85 8/ 0-13-0-25-63 4.38 0.99 9/ 33-44-22-0-0 1.89 0.73 9/ 11-22-44-22-0 2.78 0.92 9/ 22-44-22-11-0 2.22 0.92 7/ 0-22-44-11-0 2.86 0.64 8/11-44-22-11-0 2.38 0.85 9/ 11-22-33-33-0 2.89 0.99 8/ 11-22-11-22-22 3.25 1.39 8/ 0-0-22-33-33 8/ 0-33-0-44-11 4.13 0.78 3.38 1.11 7/ 0-22-11-22-22 3,57 1.17 9/ 0-11-0-33-56 4.33 0.94 11/ 27-45-27-0-0 2.00 0.74 10/18-27-27-18-0 2.50 1.02 11/ 9-55-27-9-0 2.36 0.77 11/ 0-27-36-27-9 3.18 0.93 11/ 36-64-0-0-0 1.64 0.48 11/ 9-18-0-45-27 3.64 1.30 11/ 9-36-0-36-18 11/ 0-0-9-36-55 3.18 1.33 4.45 0.66 11/ Q-9-18-36-36 4.00 0.95 10/ 18-45-18-0-9 2.30 1.10 10/ 9-9-36-27-9 3.20 1.08 13/ 36-29-14-14-0 2.08 1.07 14/ 7-0-29-64-0 3.50 0.82 13/ 36-29-21-7-0 2.00 0.96 13/43-43-7-0-0 1.62 0.62 13/ 7-29-36-0-21 13/ 0-14-0-21-57 3.00 1.24 4.31 1.07 12/ 0-7-7-14-57 4.42 0.95 14/ 57-29-7-0-7 1.71 1.10 14/ 14-36-7-29-14 2.93 1.33 14/ 21-21-14-36-7 2.86 1.30 14/ 7-2143-14-14 3;07 1.10 9/ 11-78-11-0-0 2.00 0.47 9/ 0-33-33-33-0 3.00 0.82 81 11-67-lH-0 2.00 0.50 9/44-22-22-11-0 2.00 1.05 8/ 56-22-11-0-0 1.50 0.71 9/ 0-0-0-56-44 4.44 0.49 8/ 9-22-11-56-0 3.38 0.85 9/ 0-0-44-56-0 9/ 0-0-22-22-56 3.56 0.49 4.33 0.82 9/ 11-44-11-33-0 2.67 1.05 9/ 0-22-44-33-0 3.11 0.73 10/ 50-40-0-10-0 1.70 0.90 10/ 60-30-10-0-0 1.50 0.67 10/ 30-10-30-30-0 2.60 1.20 10/60-20-10-10-0 1.70 1.00 lOI 0-0-30-50-20 3.90 0.70 10/ 50-40~ 10-0-0 1.60 0.66 10/10-50-30-0-10 2.50 1.02 WI 10-20-20-30-20-20 10/ 0-0-30-10-60 3.20 1.25 4.30 0.90 101 60-30-0-0-10 1.70 +.19 10/ 20-30-30-20-0 2.50 1.02 8/ 11-56-22-0-0 2.13 0.60 9/11-33-33-22-0 2.67 0.94 8/44-22-11-11-0 1.88 1.05 9/33-56-0-11-0 1.89 0.87 9/ 22-33-22-0-22 2.67 1.41 9/ 0-11-33-22-33 9/ 0-11-0-44-44 3.78 1.03 4.22 0.92 8/ 0-33-22-22-11 3.13 1.05 9/ 0-22~33-22-22 3.44 1.06 9/67-0-33-0-0 1.67 0.94 9/ 0-0-0-33-67 4.67 0.47 \ f 1 .) r. , !:. .. .. l< IJ ) ~ \!' \• <!, \\\ '\'0 (!) \\' c !\'\' ~ \'.u <..., . ~'T!>-.. ~ ca ~ .,.... c (!) - (!) c :::. c o (!) ~ .. - ,_. '0 c ··oo..c (!) ~ • '0 .,_. .:= c o Eii ~ g S:J.,:.. £...:::: o ~ o ~ <!.) -~ § o g ~ ...:::: a '\iii .s \'-s ~ g Eii c:a .= tlll.C -s ~ a ~ ·:::1 a ... ~ CS) ~;!.l ~ ~ trg -~ -s ;t:: Q)::l+<.c:c:a..!:ig (!) - .,.. .. ... .,.. .~ -~· ....: •.-< - r:-- ~ Q) .... ai .,... ::; !~ i .§ ~. ~ ll ~~eo:= ~ ~ ~ : ~ ·~ ~ j §. ~$ .S ~ ~ ~] ~ ~ ~ ~ ~. P~]: -~ \' . . ..... = .. .c l\l >X:! ~ = . .... ..... '\'\;' <!.) 0 >-1 ':;::l __,. Q :> 0- ~ <!.) ·\\ > ., 0 ~ @ • 0 = ..,., ~-~ ~ o.of' 8 0 . <,;< . ;:...C . \t:l 0.. ~ ..<:: .$ -5 :p :;:: Cl) @ -£3 :0 m ,0 tn ,..., - ..... r... - ~ '::i:l ~ -· .• ~ 0 n ::1 s:;; ...0 -f-oJ' -· ~ __ .-1 ..... , . __. - ,, <:.> ~ Q) ~ ;;o ..... o~ sl-4 «! ..... '\'\'\\ ~::::~ E Po. •-< !:! ..... E ~ ru .S ~- .-i::i ..z...l ~ E \t:l .::; ...: 1-j (!) ·~ ~ aldla.l 'al~_.,o,:j I'\ • ~~~ ~~.., .:::~ .... \'.. >:1-i30 'Ill ;::;: .... ~·~ +' ~ ..c: -d ~ .Q .... ~ ).,j ~ UJ~ UJ t; ~ a! !3; :;l l=l \';3 ~ <::! Jill( O\t:l~a.lOa>rn.... ~ ,.g -~ ~ ~ b-M ~ _._; ~ .b ~ B - - - -· • ~ ~ . 1\'1 ...._ rn 0 r\- ®Q.) .; . - .. : -~. ~ ·~ . f.. ,.:. ~~-. ·. ~:- ··. .:~···..:·! . • . • - • ._ ~· • «·· ~>m:\.u:.. .~ • ~ \'b'J: •• ~-. '•· •

{ THE UNION COLLEGECOURSE EVALUATION APRI.L 18, 1969 PAGE L-2 Question #12-24 12. The instructor was eager to give help to the student outside of the classroom. 13. The instructor had a broad and thorough knowledge of the course material. 21. Considering the design of the course. (lecture, recitation, seminar,. lab ... ), would you say the class was: (l) too large. 24. If you were to rate the best course that you have ever taken as 100, and the worst course as 0, how would you rate this course? (2) large but functional. (3) of desirable size. (1) 0 to 20 (2) 21 to 40 (3) 41 to 60 (4) 61 to 80 14. Student's questions were handled well; the instructor made sure that the student understood material that he did not previously grasp. 15. The instructor generally expected too much from the student. (4) small but functional. (5) too small. 22. What kind of exam preparation was necessary? (l) Memorization. (5) 81 to 100 16. The reading material used had much relevance to the objectives of the course. (2) Interpretation {analysis). (3) Both memory and analysis. (4) Synthesis. 17. It was easy to take notes in class. 18. Classes have maintained. the student's interest in the course. (5) No exams were given. 19. Class discussion and/or lecture aided defmition and synthesis of course material. 23. For the amount of work that you put into the course, how much did you get out of it? (1) You put too much work in and got very little out of the course. 20. How necessary was class attendance? (1) Attendance required for grade. (2) Attendance not required but helpful for course understanding. (2) You put a lot of work in and got much out of the course. (3) You put a little work in and got a lot out of the course. ( 4) You put in little work and got little out of the course. (5) You put in an average amount of work and derived the same amount. (3) Attendance not helpful. (4) Attendance required for grade but not helpful for course. (5) No opinion. COURSE QUES. 12 QUES. 13 QUES. 14 CED-010-01 10/ 50-30-20-0-0 101 30-50-20-0-0 10/10-20-40-30-0 1.70 0.78 1.90 0.70 2.90 0.94 CED-010-02 12/ 0-25-42•25-8 12/ 50-25-17-8-0 12/ 8-33•8-33-17 3.17 0.90 1.83 0.98 3.17 1.28 CED\010-03 10/20-60~10-10-0 101 50-30-10-10-0 10/ 20-50-20-10-0 2.10 0.83 1.80 0.98 2.20 0.87 CED-010-04 10/9-36-27-18-0 111 27-45-9-18-0 11/ 0-36-27-27-9 2.60 0.92 2.18 1.03 3.09 0.99 CED-010-05 10/9-9-27-36-9 10/45-27-18-0-0 10/ 9-18-9-45-9 3.30 1.10 1.70 0.78 3.30 1.19 CED-010-06 10/40-50-0-0-10 10/40-50-10-0-0 9/ 20-20-40-10-0 1.90 1.14 1.70 0.64 2.44 0.95 CED·Ol0·07 14/50-43-7·0-0 14/50-21-21-7-0 13{ 36·29-21-7-0 1.57 0.62 • 1.86 0.99 2.00 0.96 CED-011-01 8/13-50-38-0-0 81 75-25-0-0-0 81 38-38-25-o-o 2.25 0.66 1.25 0.44 1.88 0.78 CED-011-02 8/ 0-50-S0-0-0 8/50-38-13-0-0 7 I 13-50-13-13-0 2.50 0.50 1.63 0.70 2.29 0.88 CED-011-03 12/25-50-17-0-8 12/ 0-17-42-17-25 11/ 0-25-8-25-33 2.17 1.07 3.50 1.04 3.73 1.21 CED\Oll-04 10/ 45-9-18-9-9 10/ 64-18-9-0..0 9/18-36-9-18-0 2.20 1.40 1.40 0.66 2.33 1.05 CED-011-05 8/13-50-25-0-13 8/13-38-25-13-13 8/ 0-63-13-0-25 2.50 1.12 2.75 1.20 2.88 1.27 CED-011-06 7/44-11-0-22-0 8/ 0-33-33-22-0 81 0-11-33-44-0 2.00 1.31 2.88 0.78 3.38 0.69 CED-011-07 111 36-27-27-9-0 11/18-45-36-0-0 11/9-3~-27-9-18 2.09 0.99 2.18 0.71 2.91 1.24 CED-018-01 141 36-50-14-0-0 14/ 0-36-29-21-14 13/14-21-36-7-14 1.79 0,67 3.14 1.06 2.85 1.23 CED-018-09 9/22-56-22-0-0 8/0-22-22-33-11 8/ 0-0-56-33-0 2.00 0.66 3.38 0.99 3.38 0.48 CED-018-10 10/ 60-30-0-10-0 19/ 30-50-10-10-0 9/10-40-20-20-0 1.60 0.92 2.00 0.89 2.56 0.95 CED-018-11 91 11-44-33-11-0 91 11-22-44-0-22 9/11-11-56-11-11 2.44 0.83 3.00 1.25 3.00 1.05 • QUES. 15 QUES. 16 QUES. 17 101 0-20-40-30-10 10/ 20-30-10-20-20 10/ 10-10-50-20-10 3.30 0.90 2.90 1.45 3.10 1.04 12/42-50-0-0-8 12{ 17-33-25-17-8 12/ 0-33-17-17-33 1.83 1.07 2.67 1.18 3.50 1.26 10/ 0-10-10-50-30 10/ 40-60-0-0-0 10/ 30-40-20-0-10 4.00 0.89 1.60 0.49 2.20 1.17 11/ 0-0-18-73-9 11/55-36-9-0-0 10/ 18-18-27-18-9 3.91 0.52 1.55 0.66 2.80 1.25 9/ 36-9-9-18-9 10/ 55-27-9-9-0 10/18-18-36-9-9 2.44 1.50 1.50 0.67 2.70 1.19 10/ 0-20-20-50-10 10/30-50-0-20-0 10/10-10-40-30-10 3.50 0.92 2.10 1.04 3.40 1.28 14/ 0-21-14-43-21 14/29-29-21-14-7 14/ 0-Q-86-14-0 3.64 1.04 2.43 1.24 3.14 0.35 8/ 0-0-25-75-0 8/ 0-50-25-25-0 8/13-50-25-13-0 3.74i 0.44 2.75 0.83 2.38 0.85 8/ 0-13-25-63-0 8/ 13-50-38-0-0 8/ 0-0-50-38-13 3.50 0.71 2.25 0.66 3.63 0.70 12/25-33-25-0-17 12/ 0-0-83-0-17 12/ 0-25-33-33-8 2.50 1.32 3.33 0.75 3.25 0.92 10/ 0-0-18-45-27 11/ 27-36-18-0-18 10/ 18-27-36-9-0 4.10 0.70 2.45 1.37 2.40 0.92 8/25-25-25-25-0 8/ 13-5Q-25-13-0 8/ 0-13-50-13-25 2.50 1.12 2.38 0.85 3.50 1.00 8/ 0-0-33-33-22 8/ 11-0-33-33-11 8/ 0-11-44-22-11 3.88 0.78 3.38 1.11 3.38 0.85 11/ 0-27-36-36-0 11/ 0-36-9-27-27 10/9-9-36-18-18 3.09 0.79 3.45 1.23 3.30 1.19 14/14-7-43-29-7 11/7-0-43-G-29 13/14-14-29-0-36 3.07 1.10 3.55 1.23 3.31 1.49 9/22-44-33-0-0 8/ 0-D-67-11-11 8/ Q-22-56-0-11 2.11 0.73 3.38 0.69 3.00 0.87 10/ 0-30-10-50-10 10/20-0-50-0-30 10/0-20-60-0-20 3.40 1.02 3.20 1.40 3.20 0.98 9/ 0-0-33-56-11 9/ 0-22-44-11-22 9/ 0-22-44-22-11 3.78 0.63 3.33 1.05 3.22 0.92 - -·· --------· QUES. 18 10/20-10-20-30-20 3.20 1.40 12{ 8-33-8-17-33 3.33 1.44 10/2040-20-10-10 2.50 1.20 10/9-9-36-9-27 3.40 1.28 9/ 0-18-27-9-27 3.56 1.16 10/40.10-20-lQ-20 2.60 1.56 13/ 21·36·7-14-14 2.62 1.39 8/25-0-25-13-38 3.38 1.57 8/ 0-0-25-38-38 4.13 0.78 12/ 0-0-8-25-67 4.58 0.64 9/ 9-18-0-9-45 3.78 1.55 8/13-0-0-25-63 4.25 1.30 8/ 0-0-22-22~ 4.25 0.83 11/9-27-18-9-36 3.36 1.43 13/21-14-14-7-36 3.23 1.62 9/ 0-33-11-22-33 3.56 1.26 10/10-40-10-30-10 2.90 1.22 9/ 0-22-11-44-22 3.67 1.05 .l. QUES. 19 QUES 20 10/20-50-10-20-0 10/ 60-30-10-0-0 2.30 1.00 1.50 0.67 12/ 8-50-8-8-25 2.92 1.38 11/ 0-58-25-0-8 2.55 0.89 10/30-60-10-0-0 1.80 0.60 10/ 0-90-0-0-10 2.30 0.90 11/ 0-64-18-18-9 11/0-36-27-9-27 2.64 0.98 3.27 1.21 10/ 0-36-27-9-18 10/ 64-0-D-27-0 3.10 1.14 1.90 1.37 10/ 30-30-40-0-0 10/ 40-4D-0-20-0 2.10 0.83 2.00 1.10 14/ 50-21-14-7-7 14/ 7-50-36-0-1 2.00 1.25 2.50 0.91 81 13-38-38-13-0 2.50 0.87 8/25-13-50-13-0 2.50 1.00 8/ 0-25-50-13-13 3.13 0.93 8/ 0-25-63-0-13 3.00 0.87 11/ 8-0-25-33-25 12/ 8-0-42-33-17 3.73 1.14 3.50 1.04 9/ 9-36-18-0-18 10/ 0-36-45-9-0 2.78 1.32 2. 70 0.64 8/ 0-13-50-0-38 8/ 0-0-25-63-13 3.63 1.11 3.88 0.60 8/ 0-11-33-44-0 81 22-0-0-67-0 3.38 0.69 3.25 1.30 11/9-45-18-27-0 11/ 27-27-9-27-9 2.64 0.98 2.64 1.37 12/7-43-7-21-7 12/14-21-21-14-14 2.75 1.16 2.92 1.32 9/11-33-Q-44-11 9/11-22-44-22-0 3.11 1.28 2. 78 {}.92 10/ 20-20-30-20-10 10/60-10-10-10-10 2.8ID · 1.25 2.00 1.41 9/11-56-11-22-Q 9/ 22-22-11-22-22 2.44 0.95 3.00 1.49 f.: Continued from page 1 response. Z is the standard deviation (0.94 in our ex.) The STDU is a measure of how varied the responses were above and below the mean. A STDU of zero would indicate that all students responded with the same number. A high STDU indicates a widely scattered response. This description holds for all questions with a minor exception. The mean for question twenty-four, the course rating, is actually a numerical course rating, based on the mean of the response applied to a 0·100 scale. One will notice that independent studies are excluded as are courses with minimal or zero response. They only take up space since one or two answers have no meaning. The full report that was made available in the library last year, QUES 21 10/ 10-10-70-0-0 2.60 0.66 12/ 8-17-50-25-0 2.92 0.87 10/ 0-10-90-0-0 2.90 0.30 11/ 18-36-45-0-0 2.27 0.75 10/ 0-9-82-0-0 2.90 0.30 10/ 1D-6D-3D-O-O 2.20 0.60 141 0-14-86-0-0 2.86 0.35 8/ 0-0-100-0-0 3.00 0.00 7/ 0-0-75-13\0 3.14 0.35 12/ 0-17-83-0-0 2.83 0.37 10/ 0\0-91-(}-0 3.00 0.00 8/ 0-0-63-38-0 3.38 0.48 8/0-11-78-0-0 2.88 0.33 11/ 0-0-100-0-0 3.00 0.00 14/ 0-14-86-0-0 2.86 0.35 9/ 11-22-67-Q-0 2.56 0.69 10/10-20-70-0-0 2.60 0.66 9/67-22-11-0-0 1.44 0.69 QUES 22 1 o 1 o-o-o-o-1 oo 5.00 0.00 11/ 0-33-S0-8-0 2.73 0.62 9/ 0-0-0·0·90 5.00 0.00 11{ 0-0-0-0-l 00 5.00 0.00 10{ 45-0-9-9-27 2.70 1.79 10/0-0-0-0-100 5.00 0.00 14/ 0-0-0-0-100 5.00 0.00 71 o-0-50-0-38 3.86 0.99 8/ 13-0-0-0-88 4.50 1.32 12/ 0-0-0-0-100 5.00 0.00 11/ 0-940-91 4.73 0.86 8/ 0-0-0-0-100 5.00 0.00 8/ o-o-o-o-s9 5.00 0.{)0 11/ 0-0-0•0-100 5.00 0.00 13/ 0.7\0-0-86 4.77 . 0,80 9 I o,.o-o-o-1 oo 5.00 o.oo 10/ 0-0-0-0-100 5.00 0.00 9 I 0-0-o-o..t oo 5.00 0.00 .., .. (If L • • .,. tt • r, • l.- • • •• t. *\ \f 4 • .. 't . . . ~ ~ ~ . THE UNION COLLEGE COURSE EVALUATION COURSE QUES 12 QUES 13 QUES 14 QUES 15 QUES 16 QUES 17 QUES 18 QUES 19 QUES 20 QUES 21 QUES 22 will again be put there in the near future. It will include the statistical data printed here, as well as some corrolation of interest such as the grade received versus cumulative index, grade received versus grade expected, etc. All responsibility for the information printed here is accepted by the Union College Course Evaluation editors. Questions from outside the Union College Community should be directed to us rather than the college. For those of you interested in the method behind this analysis, we refer you to the preface of Linebacker, Winter Tenn 1968. We will be happy to answer any questions on the actual data, methods, or any other phase of this survey. QUES 23 10/ 20-30-20-0-30 2.90 U1 12/ 33-33-17-0-17 2.33 1.37 10/0-20-3-0-0-50 3.80 1.25 11/ 18-9-9-9-55 3.73 1.60 10/ 45-0-9-27-9 2.50 1.57 10/20-50-10-0-20 2.50 1.36 14/ 0-21-50-21-7 3.14 o.a3 8/ 0-0-25-38-38 4.13 0.78 7/13-0-13-50-13 3.57 1.17 12/67-8-0-8-17 2.00 1.58 10/9c9\9-36<27 3.70 1.27 8/38-13-13-13-25 2.75 1.64 8/11-0-11-44-22 3.75 1.20 11/-9-18-18-27-27 3.45 1.30 13/7-43-14-7-21 2.92 1.33 8/22-11-11-ll-33 3.i5 1,64 10/ Q-80-~0-20 2.60 1.20 9/ 33-0-33-33-0 2.67 1.25 • t.;.. {' APRIL 18, 1969 QUES 23 QUES 24 10/10-10-30-20-30 63 1.28 11/ 25-33·0-8-25 43 1.60 10/ 0\0-30-20-50 80 0.87 11/ 27-9-45-0-18 43 1.35 8/ 27-27-9-0-9 28 1.27 lfJ{ 0-10-20-30-40 75 1.00 14/21·14-7·14·43 61 1.63 8/ 38-13•13- 25-13 41 1.50 8/63-0-25-13-0 22 1.17 12/58-17-17-8-0 19 1.01 10/ 3648-1~9c9 33 1.35 B/ 7 5- 25·'0-0-0-0 6 0.44 8/56-11-22-0-0 16 :0.86 11/27-27-27-18-0 34 i.01 14/ 36-0-14-21-29 5.2 1.67 9/11-H-44-22-11 53 l.lQ 10/ 0-20-10-30-40 73 1.14 9/ 33•33-:n-H-o 28 0.99 ·~ • • PAGE L-4 QUES 24 •

• £. CED-018-11 91 11-44-33-11-0 2.44 0.83 • .., .. (If L COURSE QUES 12 CED-018-16 9/44-22-22-11~0 2.00 1.05 CED-039-01 19/11-16-63-5-5 2.79 0.89 CED-054-01 36/18-39-16-18-3 iA4 1.o9 CED-059\01 16/65-24-6-0-0 1.38 0.60 CED-081-01 19/ 15-30-50-0-0 2.37 0.74 CED-082-01 12/42·33-17-8-0 1.92 0.95 CED-083-01 11/ 45-36-18-0-0 1.73 0.75 ART-011-01 21/ 48-33-19-0-Q 1.71 0.76 ART-015-01 4/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 ART-016-01 41 75-25-0-0-0 1.25 DRM-016-01 5/20-20-60-0-0 2.40 MUS-032-01 15/ 67-7-27-0-0 1.60 0.88 CLS-0 14-01 25/ 27-35-31-4-0 2.12 0.86 CLS-016-01 11/ 36-36-27-0-0 1.91 0.79 LAT-011-01 6/67-33-0-0-0 1.33 0.4 7 EC0-010-01 18/ 21-32-32-11-0 2.33 0.94 EC0-010-02 17/ 29-14-24-6-0 2.06 0.87 EC0\010-03 201 65-30-5-0-0 1.40 0.58 EC0-011-02 41 0-25-25-50·0 3.25 EC0-025-01 12-17-50-8-8-17 2.58 1.32 EC0-027-0l 14/ 14-29-50-7-0 2.50 0.82 LAB-OR-01 15147-33-20-0-0 1.73 0.77 EC0-038-01 5/ 40-40-20cQ-O 1.80 EC0-042-01 15/ 33-40-13-7-7 2.13 1.15 EC0-044-0 t 7 I 14-57-29-0-0 2.14 0.64 EGL-011-01 111 18-27-36-0-18 2.73 1.28 EGL-011-02 16/ 75-19-0-6-0 1.38 0.78 EGL-013-01 2B/ 29-43-21-7-0 2.07 0.88 EGL-030~01 B/25-38-25-13-0 2.25 0.97 EGL-060-01 81 38-25-38-0\() 2.00 0.87 91 11-22-44-0-22 3.00 1.25 .., • QUES 13 9( 22-22-44-11-0 2.44 0.95 181 5-53-26-11-0 2.44 0.76 37/ 79-13-5-0-0 1.24 0.54 16/ 41-41-6-6-0 1.75 0.83 20/ 50-45-0-5-0 1.60 0.73 12150-33-17-0-0 1.67 0.75 10/ 18-0-45-27-0 2.90 1.04 201 43-38-5-10-0 1.80 0.93 4/ 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 41 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 4/ 0-40-40-0-0 2.50 151 87-13-0-0-0 1.13 0.35 25/81-15-0-0-0 1.16 0.37 11/ 55-36-9-0-0 1.55 0.66 6/ 1 00-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 19/ 63-37-0-0-0 1.37 0.49 17/ BB-12-0-0-0 1.12 0.32 20/ 25-45-15-15-0 2.20 0.98 4/25-50-0-0-25 2.50 11/ 33-42-8-8-0 1.91 0.90 14/ 29-36-29-7-0 2.14 0.92 15/60-33-J-0-0 1.47 0.62 5 I 40-60-o-o-o- 1.60 15133-47-7-13-0 2.00 0.96 7157-43-0-0-0 1.43 0.49 11/ 91-9-0-0-0- 1.09 0.28 16/ 75-25-0-0-0 1.25 0.44 28/ 15-25-0-0 1.25 0.44 S/ 13-50-0-0-3!:! 3.00 1.58 8/ 88-13-0-0-0 1.13 0.33 91 11-11-56-11-11 91 0-0-33-56-11 91 0-22-44-11-22 91 0-22-44-22-11 3.00 1.05 3.78 0.63 3.33 1.05 3.22 0.92 ~-- --- -----· .,. .. • r, • QUES 14 QUES 15 91 0-22-56-22-0 9/ 0-11-11-56-22 3.00 0.66 3.89 0.87 181 11-26-37-16-5 1815-11-11-47-21 2.78 1.03 3.72 1.10 361 13-32-13'-24-13 361 16-13-26-37-3 2.92 1.30 2.97 1.14 16147-35-0-6-6 16/0-0-0-41-53 1.81 1.13 4.56 0.49 201 15-50-20-5-10 201 0-5-0-55-40 2.45 1.12 4.3(]) 0. 71 121 25-42-33-o-o 111 o-o-B-58-25 2.08 0.76 4.18 0.57 11/ 9-36-27-9-18 10/ 0-0-9-45-36 2.91 1.24 4.30 0.64 20/ 19-29-33-14-0 191 10-24-14-29-14 2.45 0.97 3.16 1.27 4/ 25-50-0-0-25 2.50 4/ 25-75-0-0-0 1.75 41 0-20-20-0-40 3.75 15160-2007-13-0 1.73 1.06 25/35-5D-12-0-0 1.76 0.65 11/ 27-27-36-9-0 2.27 0.96 61 67-17-0-17-0 1.67 1.10 191 21-58-5-16-0 2.16 0.93 17 J 41-4 7-0-12-0 1.82 0.92 20/ 25-45-15-10-5 2.25 1.09 41 0-50-25-25-0 2.75 10/17-42-17-8-0 2.20 0.87 14/ 14-29-21-29-7 2.86 1.19 15/27-40-13-20-0 2.27 1.06 41 0-60-0•20-0 2.50 15/ 13-53-20-7-7 2.40 1.02 7/0-57-043-0 2.86 0.99 11/ 0-36-27-27-9 3.09 0.99 16/ 50-31-6-6-6 1.88 1.17 28/ 36-46-14-4-0 1.86 0.79 8/13-63-0-13-13 2.50 1.22 1 I 5 o-13-13-13-o 1.86 1.13 4/ 0-0-50-25-25 3.75 41 Q-50\0-0-50 3.50 5/ 0-0-4iQ-6Q-O 3.60 15/7-13-13-33-33 3.73 1.24 25/4-4-19-35-35 3.96 1.04 11/ 9-0-18-55-18 3.73 1.05 51 0-33-0-17-33 3.60 1.36 191 5-11-37-42-5 3.32 0.92 17/6-1!!-29-35-12 3.29 1.07 201 0-5-35-35-25 3.80 0.87 101 0-9-2!7-45-9 3.60 0.80 101 0-17-8-42-17 3.70 1.00 141 0-14-14-50-21 3.79 0.94 14/ 0-0·3i3-60-0 3.64 0.48 5/ 0-0-20-80-0 3.80 151 7-13-27-53-0 3.27 0.93 11 0-0-0-86-14 4.14 0.35 10/ 0-18-45-27-0 3.10 0.70 161 0-6-6-44-44 4.25 0.83 281 7-14-11-50-18 3.57 1.14 81 0-13-38~25-25 3.63 0.99 81 13-25-13-50-0 3.00 1.12 (... • • QUES 16 91 0-44-33-11-11 2.89 0.99 19/ 5-47-5-5-37 3.21 1.47 36/16-32-16-26~5 2.72 1.19 16/47-24-12-12-0 1.88 1.05 19/ 15-50-15-10-5 2.37 1.04 12/ 58-25-0-17-0 1.75 1.09 11/ 0-73-18-9-0 2.36 0.64 161 0-5-67-0-5 3.06 0.56 31 Q-0-7 5·0-0 3.00 31 0-0-7 5-0-0 3.00 4( 20-40-0-Q-20 2.50 141 33-40-7-0-13 2.14 1.30 25/ 73-19-4-4-0 1.28 0.53 11/ 27-45-9-9-9 2.27 1.21 6/67-11-17-0-0 1.50 0.76 191 32-58-Q-5-5 1.9.:5 0.99 17/41-41-12-6-0 1.82 0.85 201 45-40-15-0-0 1.70 0.71 101 27-55-0-9-0 1.90 0.83 111 42-42-8-0-0 1.64 0.64 141 36-50-14-0-0 1.79 0.67 15/47-2D-7-13-13 2.27 1.48 5/ 20-40-0-40-0 2.60 151 33-33-13-13-7 2.27 1.24 7 I 43-57-0-0·0 1..57 0.49 11/ 55-45-0-0-0 1.45 0.50 16/ 69-19-6-0-6 1.56 1.06 28/ 79-18-4-0-0 1.25 0.51 8/ 0-63-0-38-0 2.75 0.97 81 75-13-0-0-13 1.63 1.32 •• t. *\ QUES 17 9/ 11-22-33-11-22 3.11 1.28 181 16-26-21-16-16 2.89 1.33 371 29-58-5-0-5 1.92 0.91 161 35-12-29-6-12 2.44 1.37 20/ 15-15-45-15-10 2.90 1.14 12/ 42-17-42-0-0 2.00 0.91 10/ 18-27-9-9-27 3.00 1.55 16/ 5-5-52-5-10 3.13 0.93 3/ 0-25-50-0-0 2.67 3/ 25-Q-50-0-0 2.33 4/20-20-20-Q-20 2.75 151 20-60·7-7-7 2.20 1.04 25/23-27-12-35-0 2.60 1.20 111 27-55-18-0-0 1.91 0.67 6/17-33-50-0-0 2.33 0.75 19/21-47-0-26-5 2.47 1.23 17/6-29-0-47-1!! 3.44 1.24 19/ 15-65-5-10-0 2.11 0.79 10/ 27-36-0-18-9 2.40 1.36 11/17-42-8-8-17 2.64 1.37 14/ 43-43-7-7-0 1.79 0.86 15/20-47-7-13-13 2.53 1.31 5/40-40-0-0-20 2.20 15/ 7-60-0-13-20 2.80 1.33 7/43·57·0·0·0 1..57 0.49 11/ 27-5 5-0-9-9 2.18 1.19 151 13-13-25-38-6 3.13 1.15 28/ 3 2-43-14-11-0 2.04 0.94 81 0·0·63·0-38 3.7.5 0.97 8/ 0-39l-0-38-25 3.50 1.22 !..l.l 9/ Q-22-11-44-22 3.67 1.05 J. \f • QUES 18 9/ 22-33-11-0-33 2.89 1.59 181 0-16-11-21-47 4.06 1.13 35/ 34-39-11-3-5 1.97 1.05 161 35-24-24-6-6 2.19 1.19 19/20-45-10-15-5 2.37 1.14 12/ 67•25-8-0-Q 1.42 0.64 11/ Q-18-18-18-45 3.91 1.17 19/14-29-10-19-19 3.00 1.41 41 0-75-25·0·0 2.25 4( 50-0-25-25-0 2.25 41 20-40-0-0-20 2.50 15/47-47-0-7-0 1.67 0.79 25/ 35-50-0-8-4 1.92 1.02 91 9-45-18-0-9 2.44 1.06 6/ 67-17-17-0-0 1.50 0.76 18/ 26-4 7-16-5-0 2.00 0.82 17/ 1!!-59-6-12-6 2.29 1.07 201 15-40-15-20-10 2.70 1.23 10/18-36-18-0-18 2.60 1.36 101 o-o-o-so-33 4.40 0.49 14/14-29-7-29-21 3.14 1.41 15/13-53-20-7-7 2.40 1.02 4/ 0-0-20-60-0 3.75 141 20-67-0-7-0 1.93 0.70 61 14-43-29-0-0 2.17 0.69 11/ 27-18-9-27-18 2.91 1.51 16/31-31-19-6-13 2.38 1.32 28/43-39-4-14-0 1.89 l.Dl 8/ 0-50-0-25-25 3.25 1.30 8/ 38-50-0-13-0 1.88 0.93 • J.UU U.UU 91 11-56-11-22-0 91 22-22-11-22-22 91 67-22-11-D-0 9 I 0-0-o-o..t oo 2.44 0.95 3.00 1.49 1.44 0.69 5.00 0.00 :.: \' It • • • ~ w ~ • THE UNION COLLEGE COURSE EVALUATION QUES 19 QUES 20 9144-33-0-11-11 9( 56-33-0-11-0 2.11 1.37 1.67 0.94 1910-37-11-11-42 19/11-32-37-11-11 3.5 8 1.35 2. 79 1.10 35/ 24-42-18-8-0 37/ 8-79-5-0-5 2.11 0.88 2.14 0.77 16/41-1!!-1!!-6-12 15/ 12-76-Q-0-0 2.25 1.39 1.87 0.3.:5 20/ 25-45-25-5-0 19/ 5-70-20-0-0 2.10 0.83 2.16 0.49 12/ 5 8-25-8-0-8 12/ 0-92-8-0-0 1.75 1.16 2.08 o.zs 11/9-45-9-9-27 10/ 55-9-0-18-9 3.00 1.41 2.10 1.51 171 10-19-29-14-10 20/ 10-43-lD-19-14 2.94 1.16 2.85 1.28 3/ 25-0-25-0-25 3.00 4/ 75-25-0-0-0 1.25 4/ 0-40-ZD-D-20 3.00 151 73-27-0-0·0 1.27 0.44 26/ 50-35-12-4-0 1.69 0.82 10/9-55-9-18-0 2.40 0.92 6/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 191 26-63-11-0-0 1.84 0.59 17/29-59-12-0-0 1.82 0.62 20/ 10-60-20-5-5 2.35 0.91 11/ 18-55c9-0-18 2.45 1.30 11/0-42-25-8-17 3.00 1.13 141 14-29-43-7-7 2.64 1.04 15/ 13-67-7-7-7 2.27 0.99 5/ 0-20-60-20-0 3.00 15/13-73-0-13-0 2.13 0.81 7 I o-1 oo-o-o-o 2.00 0.00 11/ 0-5 5-45-0-0 2.45 0.50 16/44-38-6-0-13 2.00 1.28 28/ 32-64-4-0-0 1.71 0.52 8/ 0-63-0-25-13 2.88 1.17 4/ 75-25-0-0-0 1.25 4/ 50-50-0-D-0 1.50 5/ lOQ-0-0-0-0 1.00 15/ 20-8D-0-0-0 1.80 0.40 26/4-69-8-4-15 2.58 1.15 10/ 27-36-0-0-27 2.60 1.62 6/33-33-33-0-0 2.00 0.82 19/ 5-95-0-0-0 1.95 0.22 17/ 0-94·6·0·0 2.06 0.22 19/ 5-85-5-0-0 2.00 0.33 10/ 18-64-9-0-0 L90 0.54 11/ 0-58-17-8-8 2.64 0.98 141 29-57-7-7-0 1.93 0. 79 15/ 20-73-0-0-7 2.00 0 0.89 5/ 0-40-20-0-40 3.40 15/ 7-93-0-0-0 1.93 0.24 7 I 29- 71-0-o-o 1.71 0.45 Ill 7 3-0-0-27-0 1.82 1.33 16/ 6-81-6-0-6 2.19 0.81 2 7 I 25-6 8-4-0-0 1. 78 0.50 8/ 0-63-25-13-0 2.50 0.71 8138-38-13-0-13 8/25-75-0-0-0 2.13 1.27 1.75 0.44 QUES 21 9/ 33-56-11-0-0 1. 78 0.63 18/ 53-16·26-0-0 1.72 0.87 37/ 5()-o-42-5-0-0 1.54 0.59 161 6-24-65-0-0 2.63 0.60 20/ 60-35-5-0-0 1.45 0.59 12/42-42-17-0-0 1.75 0.72 11/ 45-45-9-0-0 1.64 0.64 19/ 24-14-52-0-0 2.32 0.86 4/ 0-25-75-0-0 2.75 4/ 0-25-7 5-0-0 2.75 5/ D-6D-4D-O-O 2.40 151 40-53-7-0-0 1.67 0.60 25/ 69-27-o-o-o 1.28 0.45 11/0-27-73-0-0 2. 73 0.45 5/17-0-67-0-0 2.60 0.80 17/ 26-58-5-'0-0 1.76 0.55 17} 47-47-6--G-0 1.59 0.60 20/15-50-35-0-0 2.20 0.68 10/ 0-0-91-0-0 3.1)0 0.00 10/ 8-42-33-0-0 2.30 Oc64 13/ 7-21-64-0-0 2.62 0.62 15/ 20-6 7-7-7-0 2.00 0.73 5/ 0-~60-40-0 3.40 15/ 40..4 7-13-0-0 1.73 0.68 7/ 0-14-71-14-0 3.00 0.54 11/ 0-55-45-0-0 2.45 0.50 16/ 19-31-50-0-0 2.31 0.77 27/50-32-14-0-0 1.63 0. 73 8/ 0-13~ 75-13-0 3.00 0.50 8/ 63-13-25-0-0 1.63 0.86 QUES 22 9f 0-0-0-0-100 5.00 0.00 18 I 0-0-0-D-9 5 5.00 0.00 371 D-32-58-8•0 2.76 0.59 141 18-41-6-18-0 2.29 1.03 19/ 0-0-5-0-90 4.89 0.45 12/8-8-8-0-15 4.25 1.36 11/ 0-9-0-0-91 4.73 0.86 19/ 0-5-0-5-81 4.79 0:69 4/ 0-0-0-0-100 5.00 4/ 0-0-0-0-100 5.00 51 60-20-0-D-20 2.00 15/ 0-40.53-7-0 2.67 0.60 26/ 8-12-81-0-0 2.73 0.59 11/ 9-0o0-0-91 4.64 1.15 5/ 17-0-50-0-17 3.00 1..26 18/ 16-U-63·5\0 2.61 0.82 17/ o~l2-B2~6-o 2.94 0.41 20/15-5-75-5-0 2.70 .0.78 10/ 18-9-64-0-0 2.50 0.81 11/25-17-50-0-0 2.27 0.86 14/ 21-0\71-7-0 2.64 0.89 15/13-20-67-0-0 2.53 0.71 4/ 0-60-20-0-0 2.25 14/0-47-40-7-0 2.57 0.62 7/ 0-14-96-~0 H6 0.35 11/ 64-0-0-0-36 2.45 1.92 13/ 0-0-0-0-81 5.00 0.00 ·28/ 4-43-29-25-0 2.75 0.87 8/ 0-0-13-0-88 4.75 0.66 8/ 0-50-0-13-3 8 3.38 1.41 \\•\JV :l.e-\V 91 33-0-33-33-0 2.67 1.25 . ~ {\ APRIL18, 1969 QUES 23 9( 22c22-22-11~22 2.89 1.45 18/ 37-5-16-21-16 2.72 1.56 37/ 8-21-39•3-26 3.19 1.27 15/ 6-12-47-18·6 3.07 0.93 19/ 0-10-45-15-25 3.58 0.99 12/0-58-17-17-8 2.75 1.01 11/ 0-9-27-36-27 3.82 0.93 20/ 14-43-10·14-14 2.70 1.31 3/ 0-25-25-25-0 3.00 3 I o- 7 s-o-o-o 2.00 41 0-40-0-0-40 3.50 1510-53-27-0-20 2.87 1.15 26/ 4-54-15-8-19 2.85 1.23 11/ 9-9-36-0-45- 3.64 1.37 5/ 0-17-17-33-17 3.60 1:02 18/ 5-68-.5-0-16 2 . .50 1.17 11/ .{).. 76-12-D-12 2.47 0.97 19/15•35-30-0-tS 2.63 1.22 10/ 9-36-0-9-36 3.30 1.55 11/17-33-8-17-17 2.82 1.40 14/ 14-7-43-0-36 3.36 1.39 15/7-33-13-0-4 7 3.47 1.50 4/ 0-0-20-60-0 3.75 14/ 27-53-7-0-7 2.00 1.00 7/ 0-71-1~14--0 2.43 0.73 10/18-18-9-27-18 3.10 1.45 16/19\31-19-25-6 2.69 1.21 28/ 4-36-36-9-25 3.07 1.22 7/ 13-50-0-13-13 1.57 L29 7 I 13-25-25-25-0 2.71 1.03 9/ 33•33-22-11-0 28 0.99 -~ • • PAGE L-4 QUES 24 91 33-Q-22-22-22 50 1.56 17/42-5-32-5-5 30 1.24 37/8-8-21-29-32 68 1.23 16/ 12-6-6-41-29 69 1.30 20/ 15-10-30-25-20 56 1.30 121 o-s-o-25-6 7 88 R87 11/ 45-0-9-45-0 39 1.44 19/ 14-19-24-5-29 54 1.46 4/0-0-25-75-0 69 4/ 25-0.025-50 69 5/ 20•20-10-20-20 50 151 7~0-0-27-67 87 1.02 26/0-8-12-19-62 84 0.96 11/ 9·0-27-36-27 68 1.14 4/ 0-0-17-D-50 88 OJ:l7 lB/ {}·:S-1.6-32-42 79 0.90 17/ 0-6-24-:l9-41 77 0.94 18/ 15-5-45-10-15 52 1.22 10/ 18-0-27-27-i 8 58 1.35 11/33-33-8-17-0 27 1.09 • 14/ 14-36-14-14-21 48 1.39 15/0-13-13-60-13 68 0.85 4/ 0-20-40-0-20 56 15/ 0-7-7-3.3-53 83 0.87 7/ ~0-43-29o29 72 0.83 Ill 18-36-18-27-0 39 i.07 16/ 6-0-25-19-50 77 1.14 27/ 0-4-7-25-61 87 0.79 7 I 13-13-50-13-0 43 0.88 8/ 13-0-25-38-25 66 1.22 •

,... ,.;; jl ·..; ·~ !. ... ~ } COURSE lNSTRUCTOR RRT/ENROLL QUES 1 CED-018-16 Palmer CED-039-01 Nelson CED-054-01 Graves CED-059~1 Graig CED-081-01 Roth CED-082-01 Shinagel CED-083-01 Russ ART-011-01 Bittleman ART-015-01 Erskine A.RT-016-01 Erskine DRM-016-01 Wei1 MUS-03 2-01 H. Wilson CLS-014-01 Ross CLS-016-01 Reece LAT·Oll·Ol Ross EC0-010-01 Bryant EC0-0 I 0-02 Bryant £CO,.G10-0~ Bim>:ham f!CO\O 11 ~0~ Prosper EC0-075\01 Malik EC0-027-01 Balkrishna LAB-OR-01 Prosper EC0-038-01 Bennett EC0-042-0l Kershner EC0-044-01 Behrens EGL-011-01 Murphy EGL-011-02 Harvey EGL-013-01 Niemeyer EGL-030-01 Nelson EGL-060-01 Freund p 9 21 43% 91 0-22-22-56\0 3.33 0.82 R 19 36 53% 19/5-26-26-32-11 3.16 1.09 R 38 88 43% 37/5-37-34-18-3 2.76 0.92 R 17 23 74% 17/0-35-29-29-6 3.06 0.94 R 20 52 38% 19/ 20-25-30-20-0 2.~3 1.04 R 12 32 38% 12/33-25-25-17-0 2,25 1.09 R 11 32 34% 11/18-27-18-36-0 2.73 1.14 R 21 34 62% 211 10-24-33-29-5 2.95 1.04 R 4 6 67% 3/ 0-Q-50-15-0 3.33 R 4 7 57% 4/ 25-0-25-50-0 3.00 R 5 11 45'70 4/2o-zo-zo-zo-o 2.50 R 15 45 33% 15/33-20-40-7-0 2.20 0.98 R 26 59 44'70 26/23-38-23-15-0 2.31 0.99 R 11 23 48% 11/36-0-36-27-0 2.55 1.23 R 6 'J 67% 6/ 11-17-33-33-0 2.83 1.07 R 19 36 53% 19/16-26-26-21-11 2.84 1.23 R 17 29 59% 171 6-53-18-24-0 2.59 0.91 R 20 30 67o/o 20/ 10~25~30<!0-15 }.05 1.20 R 11 lQ t;llf{, 10/9-J&-17-1&.0 2.60 0.92 R 12 28 43% 11/ 0-33-8-42-8 R 14 28 50% R 15 35 43% R 5 8 63% R 15 31 48% R 7 15 47% R 11 21 52% R 16 31 52% R 28 46 61% R 8 10 80% R 8 26 31% 3.27 1.05 13/7-21-3tl-29·0 2.92 0.92 15/13-27-33-27-0 2.73 0.99 5/ D-20-60-20-0 3.00 15/ 20-40-7-33-0 2.53 1.14 7/0-57-14-29-0 2.71 0.88 10/ 27-18-18-27-0 2.50 1.20 16/6-44-19-25-6 2.81 1.08 26/11-21-32-21-7 2.92 1.11 8/ 0-25-50-0-25 3.25 1.09 8/ 25-25-25-25-0 2.50 1.12 ~ .. ...C::s::<U u .... p. ~ l!!t -:: QUES 2 81 11-78-0-0·0 1.88 0.33 19/ 5-26-53-16-0 2.79 0.76 37 I 3-26-53-13-3 2.86 0.77 161 24-47-24-0-0 2.00 0.71 18/ 45-45-0-0-0 .J..:>o o.5o 12/ 33-58-8-0-0 1,75 0,5? 11/73-9-18-0-0 1.45 0.78 21/ 5-48-48-0-0 2.43 0.58 3/ 0-25-50-0•0 2.67 4/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 3/ 0-20-40-0·Q 2.67 15/33-53-13-0-0 1.80 0.66 25/31-62+~0 1.72 0.53 11/27-55-18-0-0 1.91 0.67 6/ ti0-17-3:3-0-0 1.83 0,90 19/16-42-21-21-0 2.47 0.99 15/12-41-35-0-0 2.27 0.68 19/ 0-35-35-20-5 2.95 · o:&& 11/ 9-~6-4)\9-0 2.55 0.78 11/17-33-17-17-8 2.64 1.22 12/29-14-29-14-0 2.33 LlO 15/ 33-40-27-0-0 1.93 0.77 5/ 20-80-0-0-0 1.80 15/ 7-53-40-0-0 2.33 0.66 7 I 29-71-o-O-o 1.71 0.45 10/9-9-64-9-0 2.80 0.75 13/13-31-25-13-0 2.46 0.93 26/ 11.36-46-0-0 2.~9 0.69 7/13-25-38-13-0 2.57 0.90 7/ 25-5 0-13-0-0 1.86 0.64 ~ QUES 3 '\\\'+J ;> IU 1-t _,;;, (;; ;:J C -- (tj ~~~-~~C<Ll o-OO~~IUO - 0 N~~~~~~~ ~~U~~U~~ s~s~ , 'li(> ~ ~ {\; ~ ,. ·\·• \\ QUES 4 QUES 5 QUES 6 81 56-33-0-0-0 9/78-11-11-0-0 8/ 0-0-0-33-56 8/ 3 3-44-0-11-0 1.38 0.48 1.33 0.67 4.63 0.49 1.88 0.93 1!1 '\- 19/ 5-53-32-11-0 19/47-11-21-16-5 19158-26-11-0-5 19/26-32-16-11-16 2.47 0.75 37/13-63-21-0-0 2.08 0.59 15/29-35-18-6-0 2.00 0.89 18/ 30-50-5-5-0 1,83 0.76 12/ 42-50-8-0~ 1.67 Q,6l 11/ 64-27-9-0-0 1.45 0.66 19/14-52-14-10-0 2.21 0.83 3/ 0-0-75-0-0 3.00 4/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 4/ 20-40-20-0-0 2.00 14/ 40-40-13-0-0 1.71 0.70 26/54-42-0-0-4 1.58 0.84 10/36-45-9-0-0 1.70 0.64 6/ 50\33•0 7 2.00 1.41 19/26-42-32-0-0 2.05 0.75 16/ 18-53-18-6-0 2.13 0.78 201 0-55-35·10·0 2.55 0.67 11/ 1 !!•J0-45•0•0 2.27 0.75 11/25-17-33-0-17 2.64 1.37 14/43-36-14-0-7 1.93 uo 14/ 27-67-0-0-0 1.71 0.45 5/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 15/13-73-13-0-0 2.00 0.52 7/43-57-0-0-0 1.57 0.49 10/ 18-55-18-0-0 2.00 0.63 14/ 13-31-38-0-6 2.50 0.98 26/ 14-43-36-0-0 2.23 0.69 7/ 25-5 0-0-13-0 2.00 0.93 1 I 25-25-25-13-0 2.29 1.03 2.21 1.32 1.68 1.03 38/3-16-8-42-32 36/ 50-42-3-0-0 3.84 1.11 1.50 0.56 17/76-6-12-6-0 17/29-65-6-0-0 1.47 0.92 1.76 0.55 20/90-0-5-5-0 20/ 0-10-25-55\10 1.25 0.77 3'.65 0.79 12/100-0-0-0-0 12/ 0-17-42-25-17 1,00 Q,OO 3.42 o.9s 11/55-9-27-9-0 11/0-0-18-64-18 1.91 1.09 4.00 0.60 20/38-19-24-10-5 181 14-14-14-29-14 2.20 1.21 3.17 1.35 4/100-0-Q-0-0 4/ 0-0-25-25-50 1.00 4.25 4/75-0-25-0-0 4/ 25-0-25-25-25 1.50 3.25 5( 0-20-20-20-40 4/ 0-0-0-20-60 3.80 4.75 15/60-33-7-0-0 151 13-67-20-0-0 1.47 0.62 2.07 0.57 26/ 6S-2H2-o-o 25/ 27-62-g-o.o 1.46 0.69 1.80 0.57 9/36-18-18-0-9 9/45-27-9-0-0 2.11 1.28 1.56 0.69 5( 67-0-0-17-0 6/ 17-0<B-33-17 1.60 1.20 3.33 1.25 17/26-37-21-0-5 19/ 47-5':?3-0-0-0 2.12 1.02 1.53 0.50 16/ 35-24-35-0-0 17/59-41-0-0-0 2.00 0.87 1.41 0.49 191 35·30·25·5·0 17 I 60-20-5-o-o i.OO . 0.92 1.35 o.58 10/ l11•17•lH•lH•'J 10/ 0•55•lH•lH•O 2.70 1.27 2.60 0.80 10/58-0-25-Q-0 12/33-42-17-8-0 1.60 0.92 2.00 0.91 13/14-14-29-21-14 14/ 86-14-0-0-0 3_og 1.27 1.14 0.35 14/7-60-27-0-0 14/ 20-60-7-7-0 2.21 0.56 2.00 0.75 4/ 40-40-0-0-0 1.50 5/ 80-20-0-0-0 1.20 14/33-40-13-7-0 15/40-53-7-0-0 1.93 0.88 1.67 0.60 6/14-14-29-14-14 6/43-29-14-0-0 3.00 1.29 1.67 0. 75 10/ 9-9-18-9-45 11/ 9 I -9-0-0-0 3.80 1.40 1.09 0.28 15/ 81-0-6-6-0 15/ 6-6-38-38-6 1.33 0.87 3.33 0.94 28/ 50-29-14-7-0 28/4-21-54-14-7 1.79 0.94 3.00 0.89 8/38-38-13-13-0 8/0-13-25-25-38 2.00 1.00 3.88 1.05 7/63-0-25-0-0 8/ 88-13-0-0-0 1.57 0.90 1.13 0.33 2.58 1.39 38/ 97-3-0-0-0 1.03 0.14 17/ 82-18-0-0-0 1.18 0.37 19/65-25-0-0-5 1.47 0.94 12/83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 11/64-27-0-9-0 1.55 0.89 21/ 52-29-10-5-5 1.81 1.10 4/10-0-0-0-0 1.00 4/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 5/ 20-60-0-0-20 2.40 15/93-7-0-0-0 1.07 0.24 26/ 77-12-12-0-0 1.35 0.67 11/ 45-55-0-0-0 1.55 0.50 6/67-17-17-0-0 1.50 0.76 19/47-47-0-5-0 1.63 0.74 17 J 59-41-o-o-o 1.41 0.49 20/ 15-50-30-5-0 i.25 0.77 11/ Z7•30•1 fi•t;J•<J 2.36 1.22 11/ 8-42-17-25-0 2.64 0.98 14/43-50-7-0-0 1.64 0.61 15/47-47-0-0-7 1.73 0.99 5/ 2Q-60-0-20-0 2.20 15/ 53-47-0-0-0 1.47 0.50 7/ 14-86-0-0-0 1.86 0.35 11/ 36-18-9-27-9 2.55 1.44 16/75-25-0-0-0 1.25 0.44 28/ 68-29-0-4-0 1.39 0.67 81 13-25-38-0-25 3.00 1.32 8 ( 1 00-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 O;:J,.l:; IU r \' .... z.:::: .g ~ ~ .s ;:.;; u ~ ~ o § Q~ gf g § (!) -o ·15 Oll--s ~ ~ ~ § ~ ~ ~ ::l ..s:;< @ ·- 0 ........ ...- ·- ..s:: ...... :>< ..!:1 ~ 0 <1.) :.::l ~ c,j c <1.) 0 <1.) 0 c 0 > < .... u 13: c:: o \' 13: ~ 13: E-< ~ S CJi (!) ~ .S .....l -o u :: S u o ..c: p.-o .E u ~ ..c: (!) • '\j!l ... .. !!!! .. .. \' \'I '11 ,, .... .. . ~ THE UNIOI\I COLLEGE COURSE EVALUATION QUES 7 9/33-22-11-22-11 2.56 1.42 19/ 5-26-11-32-26 3.47 1.27 37/42-37-8-8-3 1.89 1.03 17/47-18-6-18-12 2.29 1.48 20/ 20-55-15-10-0 2.15 0.85 12/ 50-33-8-0-8 1.83 1.14 11/ 0-18-9-36-36 3.91 1.09 21/ 14-19-29-29-10 3.00 1.20 4/ 0-25-75-0-0 2.75 4/ 50-25-0-25-0 2.00 5/ 20-20-20~20-20 3.00 15/ 4 7-53-0-0-0 1.53 0.50 26/ 5M5-R-R-O 1.73 0.90 11/ 55-36-0-0-9 1.73 1.14 6/ 67~33-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 19/ 42-4 7-11-0-0 1.68 0.65 1 7/ 3 5-5 3-6-6-0 1.82 0.78 ZO/ 20-50-15-15-0 2.;4:5 0,94 10/ ~·55·~·0•11i 2.60 l.2B 11/17-58-8-0-8 2.18 1.03 14/ 29-43-21-7-0 2.07 o_gg 15/27-47-20-7-0 2.07 0.85 5/ 0-60-20-2Q-O 2.60 15140-33-0-27-0 2.13 1.20 7/ 29-43-29-0-0 2.00 0.75 111 0-45-27-18-9 2.91 0.99 16/ 25-31-31-6-6 2.38 l.l1 27/ 36-39-21-0-0 1.85 0. 75 8/ 25-25-13-0-38 3.00 1.66 8/38-50-13-0-0 1.75 0.66 QUES 8 91 9-11-44-11-33 3.67 1.05 19/ 0-32-5-37-26 3.58 1.19 37/42-29-16-8-3 1.97 1.08 17/53-18-6-18-6 2.06 1.35 20/10-6(),.20-10-0 2.30 0.78 12/67-25-0-0-8 1.58 1.12 11/ 0-9-55-0-36 3.64 1.07 19/14-29-19-10-19 2.89 1.37 4/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 4/25-0-75-0-0 2.50 5/ 0-0-80-0-20 3.40 15/ 80-20-0-0-0 1.20 0.40 '15/ SR-'13-1'14-0 1.60 0.85 10/45-27-9-9-0 1.80 0.98 6/ 33~67-0l-0-0 1.67 0.47 19/ 53-37-5-5-0 L63 0.81 17/35-35-12-18-0 2.12 1.08 ZO/ 15-4H5-ZS-O ~.so 1.0~ 11/ l7oo4)•1\J·~·~ 2.27 1.21 12/ 0-8-33-33-25 3.75 0.92 14/ 21-29-J4-21-14 2.79 1.37 15/33-47-J-13-0 2.00 0.96 5/ 0-40-60-0-0 2.60 15/33-47-7-13-0 2.00 0.96 7 I 14-86-0-0-o 1.86 0.35 11/9-36-9-27-18 3.09 1.31 16/50-19-19-6-6 2.00 1.22 28/ 46-32-21-0-0 us 0.7g 8/ 0-25-13-5 0-13 3.50 1.00 7/ 38-38-13-0-0 1.71 0.70 QUES 9 9/ 0-44-0-33-22 3.33 1.25 19/ 0-5-5-37-53 4,37 0.81 36/ 3-8-8-34-42 4.11 1.05 17/ 12-29-12-24-24 3.18 1.38 20/ 0-5-5-40-50 4.35 0.79 12/ 33-25-33-0-8 2.25 1.16 10/ 0-0-9-36-45 4.40 0.66 18/ 10-10-14-38-14 3.44 1.21 4/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 4/ 0-50-0-50-0 3.00 5/ 20-20-40-0\20 2.80 14/ 20-53-7-13-0 2.14 0.92 '16/ 23-S0-4-19-4 2.31 1.14 10/18-0-9-27-36 3.70 1.49 6/ 67-17-0-17-0 1.67 1.10 19/ 21-58-11-11-0 2.11 0.85 17 I 18-59.12-12-0 2.18 0.85 20/ 5-4H0-30-l0 ~.95 1.16 10/ 11•45•0•1 !!•0 2.10 1.04 11/ 8-42-17-8-17 2.82 1.26 14/ 7-29-36-14-14 3.00 1.14 15/ 0-20-20-53-7 3.47 0.88 5/ 0-0·20-40-40 4.20 151 20-33-33-13-0 2.40 0.95 7/ 0-57-0-43-0 2.86 0.99 11/ 0-45-18-18-18 3.09 1.17 16/ 38-38-0-6-19 2.31 1.49 28/ 39-46-7-4-4 U6 0.95 8/ 0-63-0-13-25 3.00 1.32 7 I 25-38-0-25-o 2.29 1.16 1!/ 1:>, ... .,. .::\ APR-IL 18, 1969 QUES 10 9/11-33-0-33-22 3.22 1.40 19/ 0-21-21-16-42 3.79 1.20 37/ 26-45-11-8-8 2.24 1.17 16/24-41-24-6-0 2.13 0.86 20/ 40-40-15\5-0 1.85 0.85 11/ 58-17-8-0-8 1.n 1,21 11/ 0.36-36-0-27 3.18 1.19 20/ 38-38-5-10-5 2.00 1.14 4/25-50-0-0-25 2.50 4/75-25-0-0-0 1.25 5( 20-60-<1-0-20 2.40 15/80-13-7-0-0 1.27 0.57 25/27-46-12-12-0 2.08 0.94 10/9-27-9-36-9 3.10 1.22 6( 0-5H 7-0-D 2.17 0.37 191 11-53-21-16-0 2.42 0.88 17 I 12-35-35-18-o 2.59 0.91 201 0-1540,35-10 3.40 0.86 10,( 1K-1K-IK.17-9 2.90 1.30 10/ Q-0-0-50-33 4.40 0.49 14/ 0-21-7-50-21 3.71 1.03 15/ 7-47-27-13-7 2.67 1.01 5/ Q-60-0-0-40 3.20 15/27-53-13-7-0 2.00 0.82 7/29-14-43-14-0 2.43 1.05 11/18-18-18-27-18 3.09 1.38 16/56-13-13-13-6 2.00 1,32 28/18-46-32-4-0 2.21 0.77 8/ 0-38-25-25-13 3.13 1.05 8/38-38-13-13-0 2.00 1.00 ?AGE L-i~ QUES 11 9/11-56-33-0-0 2.22 0.63 18/ 5-53-11-16-11 2.72 1.14 38/ 39-45-11-5-0 1.82 0.82 16/ 53-29-6-0-6 1.69 1.04 20/ 35-30-20-15-0 2,15 1.06 11/58-25-Q-0-8 · l,G4 1.1~ 11/ 0-27-18-27-27 3.55 1.16 19/10-5-24-29-2~ 3.58 1.23 4/ 25-50-25-0-0 2.00 4/ 25-50-25-0-0 2.00 5/20-0-80-D-0 2.60 15/73-27~-0-0 1.27 0.44 25/ 38•38-15-4-0 1.84 0.84 10/ 45-45-Q-Offi 1.50 0.50 6/ :J:J-67-o-o-o 1.67 0.47 19/42-53-5-0-0 1.63 0.58 17/59-29-12-0-0 1.53 0.69 4,0/ JS-50-.S-10-0 1.90 OJW 10} 9-J&-lgc9-Hl 2.90 1.30 101 8-50-8-17-0 2.40 0.92 14/ 29-5H4-0-0 1.86 0.64 15/20-60-7-13-0 2.13 0.&9 5/ 0-20-80-0-0 2.80 15/20-33-20-13-13 2.67 1.30 7/29-71-0-0-0- 1.71 0.45 10/ 18-45·0-27-0 2.40 1.11 16/ 31-44-6-6-13 2.25 1.30 28/ 68-25-4-4.0 1.43 0.73 7/ 0-25-25-13-25 3.43 1.17 81 38-13-13-13-25 2.75 1.64 )

t 1969 \ \i !. t • in the of the .I held by the that off the t ilirn laced a and . ' a triple. , sliding er's tag Gidl'ow • fly to in ,fhe r/ time been the were ll of to· for the 1'1 the about the had ' spring. try to ,. the II • • t I • I • • f t © ~ (II' ~ Founded at Union College 1877 VOL. 98, Nq.41 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., APRIL 22, 1969 PRICE TWENTY CENTS fl Richard Hudson .Senate Considers ·ROTC and Comps Dr. Richard Hudson, assistant professor of drama at Long Island University, will present a lecture and reading Oil Robert Browning at 8 p.m., 1ihursday, in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building . His presentation is sponsored by the college's Department of English. Senio,rs D·emand Abolition of Comps The status .of ROTC at Union came under heavy fire last night at a meeting <i' of the Student Senate as two motions were presented: one that would rob ROTC of its acaclemic credit and & another that would see ROTC removed al.together from the Union II ,, campus. At next Monday's meeting the Senate will vote on which of the two motions to adopt. Recommendation Countered The Student-Faculty Committee on Curricular Affairs recently '-\ recommended removing academic credit from ROTC, and a motion at last night's meeting to support that «~ recommendation was countered by the second alternative as proposed by Robert Lange '70. 1 ~ Lange called for '\not only dropping of academic credit from ROTC but the removal of the ROTC If: unit from the campus and an end to the college's C()operation with the Air Force through the ROTC program.\ Rights Infringed Upon Lange charged his rights were being infringed upon '\because the college ~ supports ROTC and, therefore, makes my support implicit.\ '\Most of us,\ he said, \are ~ supporting ROTC fmancially and morally--perl1aps unknowingly-- because the college supports it.\ •• The Senate will vote next Monday following the Senators' polls of their constituents, but Lange continued he li did not feel it was \a majority-minority issue, because basically it's a flagrant violation of our ,~ individual rights of whether or not to cooperate with the military. The college is deciding for us.\ Will Go \Further\ Lange said even if the Senate did not pass the motion he would take the c issue \further although he did not specify to what or to whom \further\ referred. In other business, a special Center I \ Divisional Meeting was called for no later than tomorrow for discussing the 1 abolition of senior comprehensive examinations. Discuss Eligibility Rules , Eligibility rules for athletes were • also discussed in relation to the rules for other college activities. A motion Readers Theatre READERS' THEATER: Tryouts today, April 22, 8 p.m., Miriam Conable's office, Haskins Lab. \., Phone Extension 314 for inquiry. Tryout material from Dylan Thomas' Under Milk Wood. i Activity: weekly reading of plays, poetry, prose, published and u n pu bli sheds. Qualification: fluency in reading aloud. • . Invitation: to writers to submit original . works. Opportunity: participation without excessive commitment of time, without 11 competition, potential for creativity and enjoyment. Eligibility: any member of the ? , Union or Skidmore cormnunities. was also presented condemming the Faculty Council for not consulting students regarding examination changes and asking the council to rescind a decision Fequiring all pmfessors to give final examinations. Dr. Hudson, who holds degrees from Swarthmore Col'lege, the University of Pennsylvania and the University ·Of Paris, has taught Ofl the English faculties of Wesleyan University, Fairleigh-Dickinson University, and C.W. Post College. A coalition of seniors has attacked the comprehensive examining policy of Center I curricula as having \no educational purpose\ and are rapidly heading for a showdown with the faculty, since exams in economics begin Monday. More than 80 seniors majoring in Smokey Robinson and the Miracles will Headline Spring Weekend with a concel·t this Saturday night in the Field House. For more information see page 3. Sorenson: Democrats Must Adapt Former Presidential assistant Theodore Sorenson addressed a press conference in Hale House Lounge this afternoon and then told a crowd during a panel discussion in the Social Sciences auditorium that the Democratic Party must reform itself according to the changes in the country. Speaking with Sorenson on the panel were Stephen Berk, instructor of history, and Art McCabe and Abby Stillman, senior political science majors. Reminisces During the press conference Sorensen was asked to reminisce on his days from 1961 to 1964 as special counsel to President John F. Kennedy. For eight years before that, Sorenson was an assistant to the late President when the latter was a senator. Sorenson, whose appearance here was sponsored by the college's Political Forum, met in the Facility Lounge of the Social Sciences building following the panel discussion to meet with students. Theodore Sorensen Worked With RFK Sorenson is the author of two books, \Kennedy and \Decision-Making in the White House.\ He was an advisor to the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy in the 1968 presidential campaign. His other recent activities include being chairman of the advisory committee of the State Democratic Party; chairman of the panel on U.S. policy toward Europe of the United Nations Association; visiting lecturer in p~lic and international affairs at Princeton University and a contributor to \Foreign Affairs Quarterly,\ \Saturday Review,\ and \The New York Times Sunday Magazine.\ Nebraska Native A native of Lincoln, Neb., he is a 1949 graduate of the University of Nebraska and its College of Law two years later, where he was first in his class and editor of the Law Review. He is a member of the bar of tl1e United States Supreme Court, New York State and Nebraska. Center I unanimously decided last night to call for a meeting of the faculty representatives of Center I no later than tomorrow afternoon. Enthusiastic Response Petitions were circulated around the campus soon after the meeting broke up last night and the student response was \enthusiastic overwhelmingly so,\ according to one student who with three comrades got 250 signatures in less than an hour. The aim of the student group is to convince Center I staff rru::mbers that the faculty, through its regular legislative processes, should abolish comprehensives. Spokesmen for the group, which met at Phi Sigma Delta, said the inconsiderate manner in which the Faculty Council changed the fmal examination policy for seniors three weeks into the spring term entitles the students to respond in a precipitate manner without having to feel guilty of rushing the faculty for a decision. Stumbling Block Spokesmen for the group, in outlining the rationale of the committee's position, stated that students had never heard any arguments that showed comprehensives to be \anything more than an additional stumbling block towards graduation.\ \They are touted as integrative devices indicating one's competence in his chosen major field. But graduate programs do not require this kind of integration until the level of oral and written examinations for the Ph.D.,\ the spokesmen said. Student Ambiualence The students agree with the viewpoint expressed by some faculty members that comps help faculty to determine \what kind of a job they have done,\ but they \'do not feel that our graduation should depend upon this feedback process.\ \Finally the recent and late decision that all seniors must take final examinations has placed an added ~urden upon all of us. Seniors must prepare not only for their comprehensives - itself not an easy task -- but also for their fmals as well,\ they said. The spokesmen added that many seniors had chosen their spring courses with the exemption from fmals in mind, and had, therefore, chosen courses different from those which they would have if they were told of the policy earlier. College Bowl Sunday night's defeat of Skidmore by Davidson College of North Carolina, on the General Electric College Bowl, was taken lightly by most of th.e Skidmore campus. Campus reaction was that Skidmore was outclassed, considering the fact that Davidson had previously beaten Colgate and Wesleyan. The final score was Davidson 395; Skidmore 70. One reaction, was that \it was too bad that Skidmore was not more evenly matched. so we could have the chance to see if Skidmore was really good or bad.\ TI1e consensus of opinion was that it was good for the Skidnl.ore team to have the opportunity to participate in the College Bowl.

PAGE 2 \Those who make peaceful revoluti 011 i mposs.i ble make violent revolution inevitable.\ Publuhed Tu•adsy 11nd Fraday dur- lnl the tchool yrer by the Student Body o( UmonColle&e. Schenoctady. N, Y. Nataonal Advertu·•n& Repre· lttntatrve: Nauonal Educataonal Adv~rtuatng Serv1c~. Inc .. Colleoae publuher\ R•presentat ,. .• , J60 Lexin&ton Avenue. ·N.Y. ·C. Edttora.al Offtee. Old Gym, Unaon Colloae. Pubhcatton OHac•. Whate· nurst Prtnttn& & Btndan& Co., I-nc., 416-4!8 Fahh Ave., Troy, 235-4450. Entered '\ the Schenec.tady ·Post OHac• •• Second Cia~• Mild Maller. Subscraptaon 20r a copy; $6 a year dtl1ver~d anywhe-re an the UnAted Stat e·a. NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WILUAM OUZER Managing Editor CARL GOLDSAND Business Manager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein, Alan Mell, Peter Weingold. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Uoyd Birns, Bruce Husten, Ed Jerome, Jerry Levine, Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, John Schosheim, Jon Brunswick. STAFF Tony Beninati, Bruce Garber. Bill Holleran, Phil Galdston, Alan Greenfield, George Kaplan, Hank Levine, Steve Levy, Stu Moss, Gary Prevost, Randy Sutter. CALENDAR Tuesday 22 -- Panel Discussion: Reforming Democratic Party, S.S. 16, 3:30 p.m., Theodore Sorensen, one faculty member, two students; Convocation: Memorial Chapel, 8:30 p.m., Union College - Schenectady Museum Concert Series, The Lenox Quartet Thursday 24 - Lecture-Reading: S.S. 16, 8:00 p.m., \Robert Browning: Dramatic Monologues & Lyrics\ - Richard Hudson Friday 25 -- SPRING WEEKEND· Concert: Memorial Chapel, 8:30 p.m., \Orpheus\ Saturday 26 -Rugby: Union vs. St. Francis Prep, Daley Field; Fr. Lacrosse: Union vs. Middlebury, Daley Field, 2:00 p.m.; Concert: Field House, 8:30 p.m., \Smokey Robinson and the Miracles\ Sunday 27 -- Film Haps: S.S. 16, 3:00. 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. (75 cents admission) \Blow-Up\ ERROR Last week, in our anxiety to get the story of the Trustee committee's decision about coeducation, we goofed up the photographs on page one. Samuel B. Fortenbaugh and Walter LaFeher's pictures were accidentally mixed up at the print shop. We apologize to everyone concer11.ed and hope that no one besides us is embarrassed. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR APRIL 22 • 1969 J Cir.cle K Service To the Editor: . On the evening of April· 14, Mr. Albert P. Bantham, ene of the Trustees of Union College, gave a highly informative and interesting talk to those students attending. Rarely does the Union stl:ldent have a chance to confront one -of the Trustees. · This valuable opportunity was afforded by the UniQn College Circle K Club. Nevertheless, mention of .the club's sponsorship of the talk was completely deleted from your reporter's article. The Circle K Club is young, and would like to attract as many members as possible. We are trying to establish ourselves as a service organization that will be constructive, and aid both the college and surrounding communities. To attract interested students willing to work to that end, it is necessary that they become familiar with our activities and purpose. It is the duty of Concordiensis, as one of the prime means of campus communication, to report the activities of campus groups. It should be known by the students which organizations are making valuable contributions to the community, and those which are titles without function. Steve Amira Secretary, Circle K Pigeon Kill Questioned To the Editor: People shoot people; people shoot pigeons. Pigeons are just as important to me. Killing some say is \life.\ No, I say it is death. I make no pretense of evaluation. They both are. But 1 ask the drama people of Nott Memorial is death a \solution\ (even a practical solution) to Life? And I ask the community of Union College - can we allow this to happen? · Firstly, I, as an individual! member of the conununity, demand that the pigeon shooting stop. Secondly, I demand that the administration take sufficient action in maintainiNg the dome of Nott Memorial in order to eliminate pigeons as a nuisance inside Nott and to eliminate the expediency of killing .pigeons. I consider this matter one of upmost importance. I have talked to some drama people and oilier students, and I have been asked wha-t is the significance of 50 pigeons or so when we have our VietHam and our Black ghettos - and I say god da.Ill!! it man CarJ. you not see that the g11ts of the thing is the same. The pigeon shooting is an action that is here at Union College. It cannot be separated from the others. It is here, and we can do something about it. Just because it is immediate and involved within the college confines doesn't make it less important. In a sense, it makes it even more important, if one holds the premise that the college's primal values are creativity and life. I make no attempt as a self-righteous crusader. We are all fucking whores of the system. Our concern becomes how much of a whore we are willing to become. Are we whores that are attempting to be sensitive to life and creative or are we whores dedicated to death and meaninglessness? It's your question and your answer. The problem pedanticly put is that there is a hole in the top of the dome of N ott Memorial. Pigeons get into the building - shit on the props and generally are a significant nuisance to sets and productions. The hole is there ; the pigeons are there; the production must go on. So by linear logic, if one eliminates the pigeons, he eliminates the problem. But this is no solution. It is an escape and it is death. Why can't maintenance plug up the hole in the dome instead. It'll cost money, be more work, and perhaps won't be as much fun to some - but won't it be much more compatible with our obligations as living organisms, · Blither. Anyone interested in Petitions for all students continuing the Paper Highway running for class office are now next year and/or working on the available in the Student next issue should come te S.S. Activities office. All petitions 010 Thursday night at 8 p.m., or · are due Thursday. call 374-7965. Somebody please attend. Dr. Domingo Rivarola, a Paraguyan sociologist, will hold as men. From a similar argument, the question becomes - which is more important? art or life? I say that they are inseparable - that the ultimate meaning of art is life. If we cannot fix the hole, and if we have to kill to have a dramatic production, let's not have plays. Life is so sparse in this our world of death, I beg you to live every chance you get. Allen Rollie '69 Class :Time Linebacker To the Editor: It was suggested in Concordiensis that the faculty give time for students to fill out Linebacker forms. I could not agree more, but may I make a further suggestion? If the faculty as a whole will not do this, can the forms be made available to all those faculty members who will cooperate? As long as I teach, it is important to me to become the best teacher I am able to become. Without feedback from the students, this is impossible. With their help, every course I teach is changed every time I teach it, hopefully in a good direction. It's true I can hand out my own evaluation sheets and I do, but if my students are willing to help me, their evaluation ought to be available to other students. Therefore, I'm willing to cooperate with Linebacker. Could the forms be made available to all faculty who feel as I do? Sincerely, Bette Hesse, Psychology ROTC Role Opposed To the Editor: Union College has, in my opinion, no business according the rank of professor to the gentlemen who have been sent here by the Pentagon. Their \courses if that be what they are, such as Aerospace Studies Drills, spell \Mickey Mouse\ any Applications for Gatesmen are now available in the Admissions Office. All interested freshmen and sophomores are invited to apply. Preference will be given to freshmen. Applications must be returned by Friday, May 2. President Martin will hold ills open forum in the lounge of Davidson Hall, at 7 p.m. today. The Campus community is invited to attend. an informal discussion at 4 p.m. tomorrow in S.S. 115. Topic of the discussion will be .. Strategies for Social Change in Latin America.\ Anyone interested is welcome to attend. eP'.A ... A e P'A e P'.Ae \'\\ e P'Ae -~ TAKE OUT SERVICE ~ • Hot Dogs -Hamburgs ----------------------, ~------------------~ THE PEANUT STORE Featurin-g PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmects from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Acme Barber Shop 509 Urtion Street Experienced Barbers Nearest to Union College Students ~ Hot Meals· Fish Fdes ~ ~ ~ • CAVALtERS • ~ ~ e Open Monday thru Friday • ~ 6 A.M. -·1 A.M. ~ a Friday and Saturday e 6 A.M •• 4 A.M. e ~ Corner Erie Blvd, ~ • & Jefferson St, e : Phone346-9153 ., .Ae ,. .. eP'A e P'.A e ,.. .. e ,.. .. e,.. way that you look at them. Hence, there is no valid reason for them to be included in the Academic Register. ~ Of course, there is an element I of free choice involved, and I , don't wish to be accused of ' overlooking it. If a student '~ desires to enter the ROTC program, he should be able to do so; but he should be given no t,, credit hours for his voluntary participation in a government-sponsored pFograrn. ROTC should have extra-curricular status. It is incongruous to a college, not ·only in terms of its primary purpose, supplying officers to lead men in war; but possible more importantly, ROTC in its ideology and basic tenets, is diametrically opposed to the educational liberalism which is supposed to be in the tradition of our university. T h e a t m o s ph e re of inquisitiveness and wondennent which is to be found in most any course on campus, is notably absent in every ROTC course. I somehow feel that learning to take orders can be done in one's own spare time; and while Lt. Colonel O'Bier might not agree with me fully, I hope that his opinion does not coincide with that of my fellow students. Steven Braff, '72 MAUR~AT Paul Mauriat, the pheonomenal French star of Philips Records, will appear witll his harpsicord and his very unique music at the RPI Field House in Troy, New York on Ftiday, May 9 at 8:30p.m. The handsome young conductor whose record sales in 1968 exceeded three million and who won two gold discs last year for the tremendously successful recording of \Love Is Blue\ and his company of 35 musicians started their first American tour on April8. Recent record releases for the Paul Mauriat Orchestra include the LP. \Doing My Thing\ and the singles \Hey Jude\ \Chitty Chitty, Bang, Bang\ and \Sweet Charity.\ Mauriat will be traveling with . his own harpsicord, a specially constructed twelve channel sound system (created to re-produce the effect of a recording sound stage in the concert hall) and the first Musical synthesizer, Martenot Musical Waves, in addition to a full orchestra and three feamle vocalists who figure. in the Mauriat Orchestrations as an in strum en tal group. Now's The Time To MARRY ME Which jeweler has been serving Schenectady for t 3 generations? Mautice Graubart & Sons Jewelers, 166 Jay St. • • ,,;--------------- r!==========~:=::::::::.::::=:=;.::::; DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Boom Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 - 12() JAY STrfEET Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD . 40 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES uAN OVERGROUND SEX-PROTEST FILM!\ -New York Post \AN IMPERTINENT, , •. -.. • .--, J!.-DELICIOUS LITTLE SATIRE. ~~Greetin·-~ .. Today at 7:30 and 9:30 • I • 4 • • ::0:: -l>o co u,. Q ~ • ~ IN~ i-->9 u.~ ...... . ~ • ...... I ~ ....... • • • ~ VI • t;;g; 0'? ~ 6 I • .:t lV!f -.ly:> t.hu. '? 1-J t.h • 6 • ~ • v. !V'? 8~ 6 ~ 'f' 0 • • \\ -- ~~ • Oy:> N t.h I :; • • ~ U> • !:\\cr U.u. ocr cr cr 0 • • ~ !V~ • t-Jc!o t.h'? '? ty t.h I 0 • • ~ U> !:\\'? ;jJ~ • ~ u. I :5 !'I co •Q ·I ..... , ~. ....... 1-J~ . ( ,ty ( 01 ( .!: c :-~ ~-~ 0~ c ~ ~ t.>T . \ ocr oa cr \ cr c v - oc !:\'<f ~~ 1.11 - N-\' . cr ON 01: 9 9 0 \\ -- co !\\9 N~ 09 9 9 0 ~ \' ra 0~ <f <f c v. -... ..... ;~ ocr N ~ 0

..... v 10 <:::: t\ij rn \.i w 10 <:::: [\%j rn -!>- u t:) ?I c:: trJ !I en Vl () e -1 :c._ m c 2 t:) 0 c:: 2 t'l:1 Vl (') j 00 0 r- r m G') m (') 0 c :0' (I) g m m Vl < ~ J>· r c )> -1 0 ·~ 2 t:) c:: trJ )> til .... ., 0 :0 r' r: N ,!') ... ~J c.o t:) c:: trJ Vl ..... ..... ~) Ci') m r l I Ci.) J· APRIL 22, 1969 PAGE.3 Colonel Charles O'Bier Discusses ROTC; Vietnam Air Force ROTC has been coming under fire recently on campuses across the country, After talking to Lt. Col. Charles J. O'Bier, Union's outgoing ROTC Commandant, however, I can only conclude that, although part of an 1:1ltirnately bad system, the ROTC program itself may be worthwhile. Col. O'Bier has been at Union for the past three years. Before that he had been in Vietnam since 1963. He is a :graduate of the University of Delaware, which he attended after having been commissioned during World War Jl. He did graduate work at the Air Force Institute of Technology, and although some would deny it possible, he is well informed and talks easily and knowledgeably about the total situation in Southeast Asia. His interpretation of the situation may be different from mine; nonetheless, he doesn't come across as a mindless automaton in a uniform. merely following orders, but as a civilian-educated human being doing a necessary (at least until the revolution) job. Diversified Corps Which brings us to the main point of whether or not ROTC should be allowed on campus in any form. Col. O'Bier feels that the college ROTC program is an \economical means of officer training that provides a valuable mixture of personnel from all disciplines. It allows the Air Force to have an Officer Corps that is not all Academy- educated.\ He noted that · although the college gives the classroom space to the Air Force for free, the Air Force uses and pays its own personnel as instructors. By PETER J. WBNGOLD His main point appears to be we'll taken. A basically-civiJ.ian Officer Corps wHI :be less likely to be gung-ho war in order to gain fast promotion. Also, the tu~n0Ver of officers who are serving to fulfill a corrunittment and' not as career men will make the Corps more responsive to prevailing public thought. In any case, O'Bier feels that \it is the p oH tical-industrial complex more than the milit<Jry-industrial comp'lex that's the real menace to peace.\ The ROTC program has come under criticism lbeca11se, it is claimed, the courses are not reviewed by the Faculty Committee on Curricular Affairs as are all other courses. \This is not true,\ said 1!1le Colonel. \Our courses are 0pen: to review by anyone at any time and were just reviewed by the Committee several weeks ago.\ Scholarships The Colonel cleared up some common misconceptions about ROTC scholarships. These scholarships cover tuition, books, and a $50 per month travel allowance. They are available for one, two, three, or four years and they involve no additional obligations on the part of the student. All ROTC cadets, whether or not they're receiving the scholarship, once they .enter the last two years of the program become obligated to serve as officers upon graduation. Col. O'Bier emphasized that never at Union had the situation arisen where a graduating senior refused to serve. He added that if it did occur, \the Air Force could legally force him to serve but would make every attempt to treat the matter as an individual problem and try to work out the ·difficulties.~· Enrollment Down There are approximately 75 cadets at Union. There are proportionately fewer in the freshman class than jn the uppeFclasses. This is attributed by the Colonel to \the increase in pre-meds this year wh<> don't normally have the time for ROTC and also to what might be called a fashionable trend n0t to join.\ Col. O'Bier added that the Air Force was \very impressed with Union students.\ That's something at least. The Lenox Quartet, artists-in-residence at Grinnell College, will present a concert a~ :&:30 p.m_ Tuesday in Memorial Chapel, as part of the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Senes. Mozart's \Piano Quartet in E. Flat Major, K. 478\ Kirchner's \Trio and Ravel's \String-Quartet in F\ will comprise the program. Since 1961, the Lenox Quartet has predominantly featured a classical-con temporary-romantic stylistic mixture when playing the normal three~major-works concert. In the quartet are Peter Marsh, violin; Delmar Pettys, violin and viola; Paul Hersh, vi<>la and ,piano; and Donald McCall, cello. Rugby: Athletic Enigma Explained In a rugby game, each .side has fifteen players: eight forwards and seven backs. The forwards form the gvoaning, sweating mass of bodies :known as the \serum a sort of super-huddle in which the eight forwards attempt to shove their opponents off the ball. Although the forwards are the p1imary players involved in the serum, there is no maximum number of players in the serum, and, therefore, all fifteen team members can get down an <I push if they want to. Those that don't participate in the serum usually stay in the line or backfield. Serums usually take place <1fter a player is tackled, and can be formed anywhere on the field. It is also the job of the forwards to hand the ball to the backs, who advance the ball by running with it or by passing it to another teammate :in an attempt to cross the other By MARK SWEENEY and BILL HOLLERAN team~s goal line and down the ball. Grounding the ball in the end zone scores \a try,\ which counts three points. After the try, an extra point is attempted which counts two points. Other ways of scoring in rugby are by means of a free kick or penalty kick. Extra Point After a score, at the beginning of the game, or at hal£time a kickoff is taken from the center of the halfway line on the field. The kicker's team must stay behind him when he boots the ball, and the opposition must be on the ten yard-line parallel to the halfway stripe. The first man to receive the ball is free to run with it, pass it, or kick it, and the other team is free to tackle him, wrench the ball from his hands, or perform various and sundry little acts of mayhem to get the ball back. There is no limit as to how many players handle the ball, and the play may swing from end to end of the field without pause. Only a score, an infringement of a rule, or an out-of-bounds play can stop the action. In rugby, it is illegal to pass the ball forward or to fumble it so that it bounces forward, and it is further against the rules to lie on the ball once a player is tackled or to even hold on to the pigskin once a player is down. Such minor infractions usually result in a penalty kick for the other side. Protective padding is also prohibited, and if a player is injured, he may not be substituted for until the end of a quarter. In The Future That, in brief, is rugby, a game that was started at Union three years ago by a senior club president, Rollin Wickendon, upon his return from England where he played the game. This year the Rugby Cl'ub is captained by L. Mark Sweeney, a junior, and maintains a squad of thirty-three players. The ruggers play a full schedule this spring against e~per:ienced Eastern Clubs, but are essentially inexperienced. So far they have lost their first tw<> co11tests, bowing two weeks ago to Albany Law, 14-3, anddropping a shut<>ut over the weekend at Cornel1, 14-0. The Cornell contest was played in thirty degree weather, and playing conditions were farther worsened by snow squalls. The Garnet's \B\ team also was topped by the Ithaca.ns;, 9-3. This Saturday afternoon the ruggers will try to break in. to the win column, when they host the St. Francis Prep squad on Garis Field, starting at I :30_ Smokey Robinson And The Miracles Four Part Study In Entertainment BLOOD DRIV'E Phi Delta Theta is sponsoring a campus blood drive on April 29th and 30th in conjunction with the American Red Cross_ The drive will take place in the gym from 10 a.m .. 4 p.m. Dn Tuesday the 29th and from 11 a.m. - 5 p.m. on Wednesday the thirtieth. Sign up sheets have been postl?d in all dormitories aJJ d fraternities, and representatives will be in all living units to answer any questions about donating blood. A keg of beer will be awarded to the living unit with the highest percentl!ge of registered donors. William \Smokey•• Robinson and the Miracles remember that day in 1961 when they were about to perform \Shop Around,\ their latest smash hit recording, before a crowd of 8,000 of their fans at the Michigan State Fairgrounds in Detroit. Suddenly and quite unexpectedly, Berry Gordy, Jr., president of Motown Record Corporation, walked out on the bandshell stage, beaming with pride, and presented \Smokey\ with the Miracles--and Motown's first gold record for a million sales of \Shop Around.\ \It was a dream come true,\ the group recalls, \one of the biggest days of our career.\ These careers began back in 1953 when \Smokey\ Robinson, Bobby Rogers, Ronnie White and Pete Moore formed their own group together with a fifth friend who went into the Armed Forces before the boys got their first break. But that friend, before he left, introduced \Smokey\ to Claudette Rogers, and who later became Mrs. Smokey Robinson. The group had only modest success until that day in 1958 when they lined up an audition with Berry Gordy, Jr., ~'We had a . book of about 100 songs,\ \Smokey\ recalls. \Berry only liked one of them, but that was enough, Berry signed us up and we were on our way.\ Within months, the Miracles had \Got A Job\ at the top of the record charts. Fro1n that time on, between the tunes they have recorded themselves, or those that they have composed for other artists, tlte nation's record lists have often looked like a monopoly for «smokey\ and his associates. There is a strong eaey rapport between \Smokey\ as lead singer, the other Mir~cles, wd their guitarist, Marv farplin. It's just as evident wllen they're collaborating as songwriters as when they're singing. \Smokey\ collected three BMI Awards at the annual ceremony honoring the top songwriters of 1965.0ne Award was for writing Marvin Gaye's \Ain't That Peculiar\ and his collaborators were fellow Miracles, Pete, Marv and Bobby. In fact, every member of the Miracles won or shared at least one BMI Award, a remarkable tribute to the complete versatility of all the members of the group. The myraid talents of \Smokey\ Robinson as a songwriter are reflected in the fact that not only is he the author of most of the Miracles own hits, but also those of best-selling artists as the Temptations, Marvin Gaye, the Marvelettes, Brenda Holloway, the Beattles, Sonny and Cher, the Rolling Stones, Otis Redding and Paul Revere and the Raiders, and many other lea<iing singers and singing groups. Perhaps the most illustrative indication of the high esteem in which his contemporaries hold \Smokey's\ lyrical compositions can be found in the :recent statement by Bob Dyl~, a renowned lyricist in his own right, that \Smokey\ Robinson is today's greatest living voet., \A hit record is a springboard to success,\ says songwriter- performer Smokey Robinson, \but it takes a real 'pro' t() stay up on top.\ The Miracles will be appearing at the Field House on Saturday, .... \Let's face it,\ says the 27-year old singer, songwriter, composer, \when you have a hit record, you're in demand. Everyone wants you. But if you're just a product of a recording studio and are not ready to put on a show o:r hold an audience, you're going to ~un into trouble. Sure, you 'II get a few bookings on the strength of your hit records, but ifyoacan't excite and hold your audience, you won't be back.\ Robinson not only preaches this philosophy. He lives by it. His group and every group at Motown goes through an extensive artist development program which covers every aspect of a live performance. The course teaches them dancing, staging, lighting, makeup, music and diction. Their act is then choreographed by a top-flight director- -choreographer and special musical arrangements are written. Before the walk into a TV Studio, theater or night club, they are ready to give a professional performance. \Without a strong, polished act, a group doesn't have much of a future,\ concludes Robinson. \If you want proof, just try to remember all the singers who had hit records five years ago, and then count the ones who are still up at the top today. You '11 be surprised when you see how few there are.\ ZELLMER'S NORGE LAUNDRY AND CLEANING VII.LAGE AT 1559 VAN VRANKEN AVE. tat HoHie Street) D~C~~~G WMHYS 8 lbs. ----------- $:2'.00 12 Lb.------------ 4 lb. Min..-------_ 1.00 20 Lb.------------ DRYERS 30 Lb. ___________ _ l 0 Min. ________ . _ _ .1 0 OPEN- MON. TO FRI. 8:00A.M. TO 9:00P.M. SATURDAY 8:00 A.No, TO 5 P.M. (CLOSED SUNDAYS} IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BI5T YOU WILL BE AMAZED .25 .35 .50 The blood collected in this drive will be given without charge to patients in hospitals in Northeastern New York. The need for blood is great - 600 pints are needed each month in Schenec:tady County. Without a constant supply of blood donors, hospitals would be forced to buy blood and sell it to patients. The price for a pint of blood in areas where there is no volunteer program can be as high as $75. By giving blood here, a donor insures that he and his family will be able to receive blood free from any hospital in the United States. E. very person over 18 years old, with no history of hepatitis or malaria is eligible to give blood up to 4 times a year. At a recent blood drive at Skidmore there were 324 registered donors. This; is more donors than Union has ever had, but we have set it as t>ur goal for 1969. We need your help. VROOMAN'S Beer- Grocieries Cold Cuts Magazines - Pastry 200 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 F R 7-9834 JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RA. TEiO FOR COLLEGE STUDENtS Bring Your Dates Free Parking In Retar LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Codt~ll B<!lr

Concordy Sports i ,I c PAGE 4 APRIL 22, 1969 Harriers Dumped~~ ... ·C:·- '7.2 :Squad Wi:·ns ,. VOl \ ... :· .~p-. ' ~ ' : i I . . By HENRY FEIN [t looks like a long spring for the Garnet varsity trackmen, but their frosh counterparts continue to come up roses. The varsity cindermen lost their second straight on Friday, falling to Rochester, 10142, while the yearlings were demolishing their Yellowjacket foes, 96-34. \ ~' eo Moeckel once again topped all, ·' including the varsity, With a .time of 10:13.5; the 440 and mile• relays (clocked in 46.8 and 3:36.7, the :latter a tenth of a second better than Rochester's' winning varsity .time); the high jump, wort by Mike Rich at 6' (four inches better than the• varsity winner); the triple jump, T wil:: ex an a res dep repn A actiu Dear Sciet mod: .sprin \'takel sci en into to2( Gamet ~d St. Lawrence stickmen scramble in front of the net during Saturday's:lacrosse game, won in triple sudden-death overtime by the Lames, 9-8. Atlas Evans of Rochester and Garnet frosh Rich J aszczak stole the show with o1:1tstanding performances on the rain-slowed track. The Yellowjacket sophomore accounted .for a total of 16~ points, as he won the 100, 220, long jump, and ran a leg of the victorious 440 relay. In the dashes, Evans led Rochester sweeps with the outstanding times of 9.8 and 22,0, respectively. He took the long jump with a 20'1 %\effort. in which Steve Ramm leaped 38'7\; the shot put, won by• ' Rich Thickens at 40'8\; the : discus, which Thickens took . with a 106'5\ toss; and the• .•. javelin, in which Mike Rich recorded 152'5\. In .studf .and J Stickmen Crush Clarkson, 16-3; t In their two winning meets this spring, the frosh have shown considerable strength and depth • in virtually all events. Coach Ron Coleman's. increased [cor al'te exam Drop Sudden-death Tilt to Larries The only Gamet varsity wins carne in the shot put, in which George Gardner recorded a 45'7\ toss; the 440, in which Pete Ericson tied Rochester's Bill Chernicoff in 52.3, and the two-mile, won by Joe Burgess in 10:25.9. Terry McMannus was once again top point-getter for the Dutchmen, collecting nine tallies with seconds in the 880, the mile, and the triple jump. recruiting, certain to continue • · now that he has been relieved of G Tl .com semil •taker In a weekend of home play marred by poor field conditio11s, the Garnet varsity lacrosse team buried Clarkson on Friday, 16-3, before losing a heartbreaker to St. Lawrence the following afternoon, 9-8, in triple-overtime sudden death. Despite windy, cold weather on Friday, the Garnet showed plenty of offensive punch and a solid defense. The Dutchmen, who now stand 9-1 in the series against the Golden Nigl1ts, led throughout the game and controlled play from the opening whistle. The score was 2-0 at the end of the first period, 6-1 at the half, and 11·1 after three quarters of play. Bruce Westby, Mike Chater and Steve Bauer tallied three goals each, with Westby also picking up an assist. Doug Duval added two goals, and John Rockwell, Pete Brittin, Jim Sabella, Don Hoover and Bruce Dugan each scored once, with Dugan and Brittin credited with two assists each. Saturday's game was played in rain, snow, and piles of mud on Daley Field. A goal by Burr Hazen after 2:50 of the sudden-death overtime period gave the Larries their first win ever over the Garnet stickrnen. Union dominated the contest through regulation time, only to be pushed in to overtime by a late rally. The Dutchmen were on the brink of defeat moments later, as they knotted the score just as the regulation overtime ended. It appeared that the Dutchmen had actually won the game on a Larrie blunder, and in the confusion St. Lawrence turned the game around. Mike Chater opened the Union scoring early in the first period, and after the Larries evened things up, he scored again to give the Garnet a 2-l edge at the quarter. Chater put Union on top 3-1 several minutes into the second period, but the visitors rallied to knot the score at the half. Shortly after intermission, Steve Bauer scored and Chater added his fourth goal to move Union ahead, 5-3. St. Lawrence retaliated with one more score, but Doug Duval staked the Garnet to a 6-4 lead late in the period before the Larries again closed to within one before the end of the third quarter. In the final period, St. Lawrence began to take control of the contest from the Dutchmen. After the Larries pulled to 6-6, Westby scored again, only to see the Larries knot the score with less than five minutes left in regulation. In lacrosse, overtime consists of two, four-minute periods, with each side switching goals at the end of the first overtime stanza. If after eight minutes the score is still -tied, the contest is decided by sudden death, with the first goal scored winning the game. The Larries jumped ahead with a tally late in the first period, and has possession (and the one-goal lead) with Jess than Nine Seeks Second Win; Faces Kings Point Today a minute lef1 in the final overtime stanza. Pup Gould then · stole the ball in the Garnet defensive zone with Jess than twenty seconds to play, and rushed upfield. He lost the ball on a brutal body block, but middie Rick Swan scopped up the loose ball and rammed it home to knot the contest. Still seeking their second victory of the season, the Gamet base bailers traveled to Kings Point today to fact the Merchant Mariners. The Dutchmen were scheduled against the Stevens Tech on Saturday, but the contest was rained out. The diamondmen probably would have encountered little difficulty in downing the perennially weak Stutemen, a team that they walloped I 5-0 last year. The Garnet faced a tougher test this afternoon in the person of the Kings Pointers. Last season, the Dutchmen faced the powerful Mariners and surprised them by the margin of 13-3, but today, the Garnet should have had their work cut out for them. The Mariners again have a strong team this season, and should give the Gamet a tough time. Bill Neidel, the teams top hurler, who already owns a 1-0, one-hit decision over MiddlebUiy, started the game for the Dutchmen. The hard-throwing right-hander commented before the game that he thought the contest would be a \toss-up.\ Weather could have also played an important part in today's game. Coach Art Lawrence called the Kings Point mentor last night and was told that the weather was bad and that the outlook for today was equally dim. If the game should be rained out, it could only hurt the Gamet's chances in the near future, by making them rusty for their next few games. A week's inactivity is never good for an athletic team, and the Garnet baseballers are no exception. 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know ••. Have been .. ecommenc:ling - The game went into sudden death, but not for long. The Larries had the ball deep in the defensive zone, and were stymied in their attempts to clear it out. In desperation, the Larrie defenseman passed back to his goalie, who, in trying to help clear, was out of position. The pass went over his head and HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER '\31Jnion Graduates in Graubart Family\' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD J;WELRY striight toward it may never be known. The St. Lawrence goalie beat the Garnet attack and the officials to the ball, looked behind him to see who was coming, and scopped up the ball before the official could see where it rested. Stunned by the course of events, the Gamet stickmen let down, and Hazen quickly scored on a fast break. Chater led the scoring with four goals, while Westby had a goal and four assists. Duval scored a goal and an assist, and Bauer and Swan scored single goals. Dugan had tw() assists, while Kevin Monahan aad Gould played well on defense. The stickmen, now 2-3 on the season, travel to Hamilton College tomorrow. The Dutchmen lead that series 21-3. No games are scheduled for this weekend. SCHLOCK The Dutch Classic Bowling League is holding its Annual Awards Banquet this Thursday ni_gh. t at Boulevard Bowl, starting at 7:30p.m. Bill Bush chipped in with a. third in the long jump and a second in the high jump, while Norm Lasda took a second in the long jump and third in the triple jump. The Garnet frosh continue to impress, and that can only mean that good things are ahead for Union track. One of the prime reasons for the yearlings' success has been Rick Jaszczak, a fine all-around athlete. On Friday, the young speedster took the his wrestling duties, has brought a large number of fine trackmen 1 to Union. When tile frosh move to the varsity ranks next spring, all things point to a renaissance 1 of track for the Dutchmen. The varsity hopes to break 1 in to the win column this 1 · afternoon, as it hosts SUNY C allege at New Paltz on Alexander Field. Both the 1 varsity and frosh travel to Canton, New York Saturday to • take on St. Lawrence. Last year, 1 i the Larries were Union's only victims, as the Gamet cindermen triumphed by an 87~58 score. In 1 must ;depa ·divisi· Tl situa1 •take .olltSil A< :c hai camp •On M exam currie fall. Th 'Poli 1 unorg .q met l'l il'he the first meet of the series, oppos begun only in 1967, the they oppos ·t the fa Fo Dutchmen were also victorious. ·•. · ~ :Cl DIAMANTE'S '/1. 220 in 22.8, the 440 in 51.4, Enjoy Our Fine Home 19 and then carne back to clock an Cooked ltalia11 Food in Our t• · 1 OJ outstanding 50.5 for his leg of Comfortable Dining Room the mile relay over a badly Ini chewed-up track. Opp. The Browr~ell Gate , be he B t J ak · b an NoH Street · 1 All those interested in sailing u aszcz IS Y no means •p.m. with the Sailing Club this spring the whole team. Other Garnet where should come to a meeting on wins came in the mile, in which Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. 1 absol W dn d S .J 5 P M t 1 \'.M :Yhur.s e · es ay, in SS 115 at 1:00 Paul Forbes was clocked in 4:48; un 04 ays · • • 0 \' . • hours. h~:of;2~ontact Bill Pattison at the two-mile, in which Brian CaJ • ¢ class g ltatiiiWIIIIIDIUIUIIIIUI:IIIIIUIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIUIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIDIWIUUIIICIIIIUIIIIIDIHIIIHIHIGIIHIIIIIIIIC~Q,I'IIII, EdwaJ I , Marte SUMMER JOBS presid - = ·• 1 nomir ~ I Georg I WE HAVE A SPECIAL JOB JUST FOR YOU! _ of t - I ~hrou I National Agency of Student Employment 1 w()~?c • class 1 P. 0. Box 52492 ., t Nelsot g New Orleans, Louisiana 70150 1= -vice-pl I <Guy 1 ... Cosh 0 Check D Money Order D a -vice-pl =I ~'~:~:r~~~ ~:!~ ~': '-~~-s~~-~~~~o~-~~,~~~~~~'~ '';;~· I ' • ~~~ Work with students at America's finest Resorts. - 1 ~ .. 1 <~ (ass 1 D 0 FOREIGN J0!3S ----------··-·--------------------·-----------·-------------------------·-·\·---------·--· $3 ;00 - ]ob C = G-ain valuable experiences abroad with pay. i f~r Se< _ 01 =& 0 CAREER TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES ·--··--·-----·-·-------·----------·----------·--------· $3.00 1= ,, 111 () .. 7 f 1 ~· 7 a~ Start your career working with America's best companies . D SPECIAL OFFER - Our latest bulletin which contains .A:darm i all three job fields plus a special job assignment for you. , 0 CJf '71 Please state interest and desired location -------------------- $4 00 Qf the H ' -~ «Jh:arle ~IIDIIIIIIIIIIIII:IUIIIIIIIIIICIIIIIIIUU11CIIIIl111UIItaiiiiiiii1111CIIIIIIIIItllllillllll._.alll._llll:llllllllllllallftllllllllalllllllll. IJ ' Jlet:

• APRIL 22,1969 PUBLISHED BY CQNCORDIENSIS PAGE L-1 The Union College Course Evaluation Questions #1-11 Winter, 1969 By DICK DANIEL and BOB SALTZMAN Printed on these pages is part of the winter term course evaluation report. Center I courses appear today while future supplements will contain those for Center II. This report is a straight statistical analysis of the data collected from Union students durin 0 re 0 istration, As one Will not~vy fmm thv data, the response varied widely between courses. Therefore, there is no good measure of an overall response. Because of the generally low response, no attempt will be made by the evaluation editors to interpret the data such as the puolication Linebacker has done in the past. The student or faculty member should make his own determinations from the data. COURSE INSTRUCTOR RRT/ENROLL Courses with seventy per cent response out of an enrollment of twenty or better will probably yield some very meaningful information. Courses with response between fifty and seventy\five per cent should be analyzed very carefully. Anything below fifty per cent should generally be considered me:mingless. The c:mly possible exception might be courses with extremely hlgh enrollment. When the course evaluation was started, a chief use of it was thought to be as a guide for students planning a curriculum. A student should be warned against dismissing a course or professor if fifty per cent of twenty students enrolled considered either a disaster. To explain this \stock report\ type of printout, I have chosen CED-010-02 as my example. (This is Comp. Ed. 10, section 2.) All QUES !1. QUES 2 courses are identified by their numerical code. Reading across we fmd that Professor Gado taught this course (in fact, this information may have been changed without our knowledge) and that it was a recitation section (R-resitation, X -lecture, P-proje ct, L-la b, S-seminqr). The next two numbers tell one that 12 out of 17 enrolled students reported for a percenta 0 e of 71 per cent. 24 columns of numbers now follow; one for each question. The actual questions are printed in this issue. One will notice the numbers take the form X-A-B-C-D-E. X is the total number of students answering a given question with a valid response (1-5). A through E are the percentages responding to answers 1-5 respectively. (If there. were people who didn't answer the question or answers more than one QUES 3 QUES 4 choice, the percentages may not add to 100 since the percentages are based on the total number of responses for the course). As applied to question 1 in our example, we fmd that 12 students answered question 1: What is your present cumulative index? 1. 3.30 or hiQher 2. 2.70 to ~.29 3, 2.30 to 2.69 4. l.7Q tQ z.~~ 5. below 1.69 Zero per cent or no students had an index of 3.30 or above, twenty-five percent or three students were between 2. 70 and 3.29, twenty-five percent /3 between 2.30 and 2.69; 42 percent or five between 1.70 and 2.29 and eight percent /1 below 1.69. The number Y (3.303 in our ex.) is the arithmetic mean of the numerical Continued on page 2 QUESTIONS 1. Your present cummulative index is: (1) 3.30 or higher (2) 2.70 to 3.29 (3) 2.30 to 2.69 (4) 1.70 to 2.29 (5) below 1.70 2. Your grade for the course was: (I) A, (2) B, (3) C, (4) D, (5) F 3. Considering the amount of work that you did, your interest in the course, and your comprehension of the materilll presented, what gmde do you think y6u flllrly deserved? (1) A, (2) B, (3) C, (4) D, (5) F 4. How open was the instructor to new ideas, analysis differing from his own, and/or interpretations differing from his own? (1) Very open to student interpretation (2) Open, but generally leary of student viewpoints. (3) Sometimes open, sometimes not. (4) Willing to accept only views which coincide with his. (5) Closed find not receptive. 5. The instructor's presentation of the course material was basically ... QUES 5 QUES 6 QUES 7 QUES 8 (1) lecture. (2) lecture with some discussion. (3) equal lecture and discussion. (4) discussion with some lecture. (5) discussion. For the following statements, please indicate your response by the numbers: (I) Strong agreement. (2) Agreement. (3) ]\/o opinion. (4) Disagreement. (5) Strong di~agreement. 6. The instructor was greatly interested in the material being taught 7 _ The instructor clearly defined the objectives of the course. 8. The instructor's presentation of the material greatly aided the understanding of the course material. 9. Daily preparation for class is necessary for the understanding of class lecture and discussion_ 10. The instructor stimulated the student to think about material beyond the course requirements. 11. The instructor was organized in his presentation of the course materiaL QUES 9 QUES. 10 QUES. 11 EGL-067-01 Ullmann R 16 33 48% 16/13-31-44-13.,0 2.56 0.86 16/ 0-56-44-0-0 16/19-69-13-0-0 2.44 0.49 1.94 0.56 16/ 5(}.25-25-(}.0 16/13-38-6-38-6 16/ 69-25-6-0-0 16/19-69-0-13-0 16/25-5(}.13-6-6 16/ 63-38-0-0-0 16/38-38-19-6-0 16/25-63-Q-13-0 2.00 0.87 HST-011-01 Hansen R 24 38 63% 24/0-29-33-21-17 3.25 1.05 HST-ou-oz Berk R 23 41 56% 22/ 9-9-22-43-13 3.45 1.12 HST-021.01 N. Allen R 7 12 58% 7/ 0-29·29-14-29 3.43 1.17 HST-033-01 Potts R 16 25 64% 16/6-44-38-13-0 2.56 0.79 HST -044-01 N. Allen R 5 11 45% 5/ 20-20-40-(}.20 2.80 HST-050-01 Hansen R 21 43 49% 20/ 14-29-33-14-5 2.65 1.06 HST -052-01 Hl!Jlsen s 7 15 47% 7/29-29-29-14-0 2.29 1.03 HST -063-01 Thurston R 13 23 57% 13/ 8-~3·8-62-o 3.23 1.05 HST -071-01 Berk ~ 11 17 65% 11/18-9-55-9-9 2.82 1.11 cm-o11-01 Woo R 7 12 58% 7/29-43-29-0-0 2.00 0.75 FRN-011-01 Raser R 13 21 62% 13/8-8-38-31-15 3.38 1.08 FRN-012-Q1 Raser R 14 23 61% 14/14-21-21-36-7 3.00 1.20 FRN-()12-02 Le Cle:tc R 10 15 67% 10/ 0-20-30-10-40 3.70 1.19 FRN-030-01 Roberts R 18 23 78% 18/2:H 7-39-17-6 2.67 1.15 FRN-031M>2 Roberts R 12 18 67% 12/ 8-25-33-33..0 2.92 0.95 FRN-033·01 LeClerc R 5 10 50% 5/ 040-40-21M> 2.8Q FRN-033-02 LeClerc R 4 8 50% 4/25·0-25·25-25 3.25 • • • • • • • • 24/17-38-29-17-0 24/ 29-50-21-0-0 2.46 0.95 1.92 0.71 21/9-43-30-9-0 23/22-48-26-4-0 2.43 0.79 2.13 0.80 6/14-29-29-()..14 7/14-43-29-14-0 2.67 1.25 2.43 0.90 15/ 0-44-44-6-0 15/13-5()..25.,fi-O 2.60 0.61 2.27 0.77 5/40-40-20-0-0 5/40-60-0-0-0 1.80 1.60 20/43-14-24-5-10 20/38·29-14-10-5 2.20 1.33 2.10 1.18 7/29-29-29-0-14 7/29-29-29-0-14 2.43 1.29 2.43 1.29 13/15-38·38-Q-8 U/15-69-8-o-O 2.46 1.(11 1.92 0.50 10/9-36-36-9-0 11/27-55-18-0-0 2.50 0.81 1.91 0.67 7/43-57-IM-0 7/43-57-0-0-0 1.57 0.49 1.57 0.49 10/15-23-15-15-8 12/8-31-38-8-8 2.70 1.27 2.75 1.01 14/14-36-36-14-0 14/2l-36-29-14-0 2.50 0_91 2.36 0.97 9/ 0-2040-30-0 10/10-20-50-2(}.0 3.11 0. 73 2.80 0.87 18/11-56-33..6-0 17/17-44-28-6-0 ;2.33 0.75 2.24 0.81 12/17-50-25-8-0 11/17-67-0-8-0 2.25 0.83 2.00 0. 74 4/ ~0-60-0-0-0 5/ ().,80-20-0-0 1.75 2.20 4/ 0-25-50-25-0 4/ 0-5()..25-25-0 3.00 2.75 II! .. • • • 1.75 0.83 24/42-29-21-4-4 2.00 1.08 22/39-30-17-4-4 2.00 1.09 7/10M-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 16/81-19-()..0-0 1.19 0.40 5/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 19/ 38-29-14-10-0 1.95 0.99 6/ 14-57-14-0-0 2.00 0.57 13/ 62·23·15-0-0 1.54 0.74 10/ 27-55-0-0-9 2.00 1.10 7/ 57-29-14-0-Q 1.57 0.73 12/ 46-23-15-8-0 1.83 0.98 8/21-21-14-0-0 1.88 0.78 10/ 5(}.20-30-0-0 1.80 0.87 18/28-22-33-17-0 2.39 1.06 12/ 58-8-17-8-8 2.00 1.35 5/ 8(}.20-0-0-0 1.20 4/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 • • 2.88 L22 24/71-29-(}.(}.0 1.29 0.45 19/ 43-35-4-0-0 1.53 0.59 7/ 043-57-o-O 2.57 0.49 15/13-69-13-(}.0 2.00 0.52 5/20-40-4(}.0-0 2.20 18/76-10-0-0-0 1.11 0.32 6/ 0-29-0-43-14 3.50 1.12 13/ 'l'J-69-9-0-0 1.85 0.53 10/ 27-64-()..0-0 1.70 0.46 7/29-43-29-(}.0 2.00 0.75 13/ 46-46-8-()..0 1.62 0.62 14/43-5(}.7-0-0 1.64 0.61 10/ 0-20-60-10-10 3.10 0.83 17/39-39-11-6-0 1.82 0.85 12/ 33-42-17-8-0 2.00 0.91 5/ 0-20-60-20-0 3.00 4/ 25-0-50-25-0 2.75 • • e 1.38 0.60 23/75-17-0-0-4 1.35 0.87 22/ 74-22-0-0-0 1.23 0.41 7/10o-o-o-o-o 1.00 0.00 15/ 81-13-0-0-0 l.13 0.35 5/ 2o-8o-o-o-o 1.80 21/ 67-29-S-0-0 1.38 0.57 6/43-29-14-0-0 1.67 0.75 1'1/ 95-9-M-0 1.08 0.28 11/91-9-0-0-0 1.09 0.28 7/86-14-0-0-0 1R4 0.35 12/15-62-8-o-8 2.17 0.98 14/43-43-7-7-0 1.79 0.86 10/30-40-30-Q-0 2.00 0.77 18/61-39-0-0-0 1.39 0.49 12/ 83-0-8-8-0 1.42 0.95 5/80-20-0-0-0 1.20 4/ 50-25-0-25-0 2.00 • • 2.06 0.82 23/ 50-25-21-0-0 1.70 0.81 22/48-39-4-4-0 1.64 0.77 71 43-57-o-o-o 1.57 0.49 15/5(}.31-0-6-6 1.80 1.17 S/40-6o-o-o-o 1.60 21/33-48-10-5-5 2.00 1.02 6/29-14-29-14-0 2.33 1.10 1'1/ 77-15-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 11/ 4545-0-0-9 1.82 1.11 6/71-14-0-(}.0 1.17 0.37 11/ 23-54-8-0-0 1.82 0.57 14/7-50-29-14-0 2.50 0.82 10/40-50-0-10-0 1.80 0.87 18/33-39-11-6-11 2.22 1.27 12/42-42-0-8-8 2.00 1.22 5/40-20-40-0-0 2.00 4/25-S0-25-0-0 2.00 • • • 2.19 1.08 24/46-42-0-8-4 1.83 1.07 22/ 57-35-4-4-0 1,45 0,58 7/71-29-o-o-o 1.29 OA5 16/318-38-19-0-6 2;00 1.06 5/4040-()..20-0 2.00 20/ 52-29-1(}.5-0 1.65 0.85 6/14-43-14-(}.14 2.50 1.26 1'1/ 77-9-9-0-0 1.25 0.59 11/ 64-36-0-()..0 1.36 0.48 1{ 71-29-0,.0-0 1,29 0,45 13/46-31-15-8-0 1:85 0.95 14/ 510-29-14-7-0 1.79 0.94 101 0-8o-2o-o-o 2.20 0.40 18/218-44-6-11-11 2.33 1.29 12/67-8-8-8-8 1.83 1.35 Sf 80-20-0-0-0 1.20 4/ 25-25-50-0-0 2.25 • • • 1.38 0.48 24/4-29-17-38-13 3.25 1.13 22/13-35-26-17-4 2,611 1.07 7/29-29-29-14-0 2.29 1.03 16/6-525-38-6 3.13 1.05 5/20-60-()..20-0 2.20 20/10-5-10-48-24 3.75 1.18 6/ 29-29-0-29-0 2.33 1.25 12/ 0-69-0-23-0 2.50 0.87 11/ 27-36-9-9-18 2.55 1.44 7/ 57-14-14-14-Q 1.66 1.13 12/ 15-62-8-8-0 2.08 0.76 13/29-21-0-29-14 2.77 1.53 1 ot 4o-6o-o-o-o 1.60 0.49 18/ 44·39·6-6..(j 1.89 1.10 12/42-33-8-8-8 2.08 1.26 s1so-2o-o-o-o 1.20 4/50-50-0-0-0 1.50 • • • 1.94 0.90 24/21-21-25-17-17 2.88 1.36 22{ 22-39-17-13-4 2.36 1.11 7{ 43-43-14-o-O 1.71 0.70 15/ 25-44-13-6-6 2.20 1.11 si 20-60-20-0-o 2.00 21/ 24-24-29-14-10 2.62 1.25 6/14-14-29-19-0 2.83 1.07 12/ 54-38-0-0-0 1.42 0.50 11/ 27-27-27-9-9 2.45 1.23 7/ 29-43-29-(}.0 2.00 0,75 13/15-23-31-23-8 2.85 1.17 14/7-7-50-21-14 3.29 1.03 10/10-0-60-20-10 3.20 0.98 18/6-17-33-44-0 3.17 0.90 12/ 25-33-17-17-8 2.50 1.26 5/40-40-20-(}.0 1.80 4/ 25-S(}.0-25-0 2.25 • • 24/ 50-38-0-8-4 1.79 1.08 23/ 57·35-9·0-0 1.52 0,65 6{ 71-14-Q-Q-0 1.17 0.37 15/50-25-13-6-0 1.73 0.93 5/ 4o-6o-o-o-o 1.60 21/62-29-0-10-o 1.57 0.90 6/ 29-14-'14-29-0 2.50 1.26 12/ 77~15-0-0-0 L17 0.37 11/ 5545-0-0-0 1.45 0.50 6/ 57-29-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 12/ ,23-69-Q-0-0 1.75 0.44 14/36-57-Q-7·0 1.79 0.77 10/ 20-6Q-2Q-0.1)< 2.00 0.63 17/39-44-0-11-0 1.82 0.92 12/ 67-17-0-8-8 1.75 1.30 S/40-40-20-0-0 1.80 4/50-25-25-0-0 1.75 • • ~ -- --w .... -,; • 41 0') tO 0') ... N• ...... • c:: <l) So...: <l) co ';.J -s ~ c:: J.,..t•-t -<zro'\O ...,..,...._..,.uoo~::;-tt~F.dl ~ro 0 ~H'Oi=<c.~ a> S;jra\COos::~='\'~ ~ &].S~~~-= .... ~..c:: <l) .-d?. \' :n \!;'h 0 ;:;, <l)n ~.s .£ .-s .~ ~ -~ a ~co :9 .. ~+->..:::;\:;::! -aooooc\' u.,..., '0· ....... 0 .......... 0\\\'\0 ·Col ~ ~ c.U ~ .._. ~ _gl ...... '\\\\' ,. -- ~ ~ >.. >-.,......., 0 ... ~ ~ <D .~ :fJ N o ~ s :o a) ..... :g _, ~ ..c:: -~ t-- § +' ;:1 ~ gp 0 <l) ~1;i \+-<~ C!Jruo 0 ;::l ..... c::r;::l.._...c::. C!J.,;~ '\'\t:) <:! = R 6· .... ~ o-<->\0. L__ cut5...s 0~\\ =.s-o ~=\'C ~:; ...s:: ·- (D dl 0 c:: c: cu \\\' = <a 0 ;;,. > ...... ;:l\' Ill>,\'~ ..... .,_, ............. ~..::.:: 0\l)C:: \'~ () !ll ~ - .... . ca o 1;; g ~<l) ·;;: s:: - \' \' .\!l \ . ~0 s::: >-. co •.-j ttl () :::1 ;::l c.! 1l~\' ::.::~ ClJ f;l ..... d) o ~~~ <l)t.;-s ~~~ ClJ ClJ a ~;:l~~~~~~a- ~~c:o~~ \\\ 'T) ... :a i> _.. 0 •.-I ed 'o t1) ~ ~ .£ .c:: ~bOU lfl :-;::~ 0 ..C::] .S t:: c:: ~ c:: ~ ,.... - u ....... rn r) _, , (1) C'I:S I\\'\ ·- I ~ - \' § ••• <Zl ... ... .. .. • .. II~~ I

THE UNION COLLEGE COURSE EVALUATION APRIL Tl, 1969 PAGE L-2 Continued from page I Question #12-24 12. The instructor was eager to give help to the student outside of the classroom. 11 13. The instructor had a broad and thorough knowledge of the course material. 21. Considering the design of the course, (lecture, recitation., seminar, Jab ... ), would you say the class was: (1) too large. 24. If you were to rate the best course that you have ever taken as 100, and the worst course as 0, how would you rate this course? response. Z is the standard devi!ltion (0.94 in our ex.) The STDU is a measure of how varied the responses were above and below the mean. A STDU of zero would indicate that all students responded with the same number. A high STDU indicates a widely scattered response. This description holds for all questions with a minor exception. The mean for question twenty-four, the course rating, is actually a numerical course rating, based on the mean of the response applied to a 0-100 scale. (2) large but functional. (3) of desirable size. (1) 0 to 20 14. Student's questions were handled well; the instructor made sure that the student understood material that he did not previously grasp. (2) 21 to 40 (4) small but functional. (5) too small. (3) 41 to 60 (4) 61 to 80 15. The instructor generally expected too much from the student. 22. What kind of exam preparation was necessary? (1) Memorization. (5) 81 to 100 16. The reading material used had much relevance to the objectives of the course. (2) Interpretation (analysis). (3) Both memory and analysis. (4) Synthesis. 17. It was easy to take notes in class. 18. Classes have maintained the student's interest in the course. (5) No exams were given. • 19. Oass discussion and/or lecture aided defmition and synthesis of course material. 23. For the amoun:t of work that you put into the course, how much did you get out of it? (1) You put too much work in and got very little out of the course. 20. How necessary was class attendance? (I) Attendance required for grade. (2) Attendance not required but helpful for course understanding. (2) You put a lot of work in and got much out of the course. (3) You put a little work in and got a lot out of the course. (4) You put in littEe work and got little out of the course. (5) You put in an average amount of work and derived the same amount. (3) Attendance not helpful. (4) Attendance required for grade but not helpful for course. (S) No opinion. COURSE QUES. 12 EGL-067-01 16/ 31~25-31-13-0 2.25 1.03 HST-011-01 24/ 25-29-17-21-8 Z.:'HS 1,Z? HST-011-02 23/39-48-13-0-0 1.74 0.68 HST-021·01 7/86-14-0-<l-0 1.14 0.35 HST-033-01 15/ 56-13-25-0-0 1.67. 0.87 HST-044-01 5/60-40-0-0-0 1.40 HST-050-01 21/14-33-43-5-5 2.52 0.96 HST-052-01 6/ 29-14-043-0 2.67 1.37 HST-063-01 12/69-15-8-0-0 1.33 0.62 HST-071-01 11/18-27-45-0-9 2.55 1.07 CHI-011-01 7/57-43-0-0-0 1.43 0.49 FRN-011-01 12/23-23-38-8-0 2.33 0.94 FRN-012-01 13/21-21-43-7-0 ~.JH o.n FRN-012-02 10/10-79·20-0-0 2.10 0.54 FRN-Q30-Q1 18/ 39C17-44-9-Q- 2.06 0.91 FRN-M0-02 12/33-42-25-0-0 1.92 0.76 FRN-033-01 5/60-20-20-0-0 1.60 FRN-03~-02 4/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 .-. • ... .... .. ... COURSE QUES IZ nn\'-T nAA n .. A I ;,c n '\.c n n QUES. 13 16/ 50-31-6-13-0 1.81 1.01 24/ 88-8-4-0-0 1.17 0.47 22/70-26-0-0-0 1.27 0.45 7/ 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 15/63-25-0-6-0 1.47 0.81 5/60-20-0-20-0 1.80 21i 95-5-0-0-0 1.05 0.20 6/ 86·0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 12/62-31-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 11/ 64-27-9-0-0 1.45 0.66 '7/71-29-0-0-0 1.29 0.45 12/54-31-8-o-O 1.50 0.65 1~/ 50-43..()..0-0 1.46 O.SO 10/60-30-10-0-0 1.50 0.67 18/56-22-11-0-11 1.89 1.28 11/ 58-17-0-8-8 1.82 1.33 5/60-40-0-0-0 1.40 4/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 ~ ... . .. QOES l3 A I .. nn. n n. n n • QUES. 14 16/19-50-6-19-6 2.44 1.17 23} 50-25-13-4-4 1.81 LM 22/ 52-35-9-0-0 1.55 0.66 7/ 1 00-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 16/44-38-13-6-0 1.81 0.88 5/40-40-20-0-0 1.80 21/ 38-48-10-0-5 1.86 0.94 6/ 57-29-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 12/ 38-38-8-8-0 1.83 0.90 11/55-18-27-0-0 1.73 0.86 7/ 29-57-14-0-0 1.86 0.64 12/ 8-46-31-8-0 2.42 0.76 13/ 29-50-14-0-0 l.HJ 0.66 10/40-50-10-0-0 1.70 0.64 18/17-56-17-6-6 2.28 0.99 11/42-33-8-0-8 1.91 1.17 51 80-20-0-0-0 1.20 ?./ 25-25-25-0-0 2.00 ... • QUES 14 A I\ ,... \' \\' ... • QUES .. 15 16/ 6-25-25-38-6 3.13 1.05 24/13-21-17-42-8 3.13 LZO 21/4-9-17-48-13 3.62 0:.99 7/ 0-0-0-71-29 4.29 0.45 16/ 6-25-6-44-1.9 3.44 1.22 5/ 0-0-40-40-20 3.80 21/ 14-29-24-24-10 2.86 1.21 6/ 57-29·0-0-()1 1.33 0.47 12/ 0-0-31-31-31 4.00 0.:82 11/9-9-36-1S-;27 3.45 1.23 7/14-0-29-43-14 3.43 1.17 12/8-0-8-46-3.1 4.00 1.08 14/ 0-0-7-79-14 4.07 0.4J 10/ 0-0-30-70-0 3.70 0.46 18/6-11-17-5\li-11 3.56 1.Hl 11/ 0-8-17-50-17 3.82 0 .. 83 5/ 0-0-20-60-20 4.00 4/ 0-75-0-:B-0 2.50 • • QUES 15 .IIJ ..... ______ _ QUES. 16 16/ 8~-6-0-0 1.19 0.53 24/ 67-29-4-0-0 1.36 O.J6 22/52-43-0-0-0 1.45 0.50 7/ 86-14-0-0-0 1.14 0.35 15/44-38-6-6-0 1.73 0.85 5/ 20-~0-0-20 2.40 21/ 57-38-5-0-0 1.48 0.58 6/14-43-14.U4-o 2.33 0.94 12/69-23-0-0-0 1.25 0.44 11/ 64-36-0-0-0 1.36 0.48 7/ 57-0-43-0-0 1.86 0.99 12/46-46-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 14/4343-14-0-0 1.11 0.70 10/ 50-30-20-Q-0 1.70 0.78 18/ 72-22-6-Q-0 1.33 0.57 11/ 58-25-0-8-0 1.55 0.89 5/40-60-0-0-0 1.60 ?.} 50-0-25-0-0 1.67 \' . \ QUES 16 • QUES. 17 15/19-38-6-25-6 2.60 1.25 24/ 17-50-13-13-8 2.46 1.1J 22/ 26-39-13-17-0 2.23 1.04 7/57-14-14-14-0 1.86 1.13 16/31-38-13-13-6 2.15 1.20 5/ 0-80-20-0-0 2.20 21/19-33-0-43-5 2.81 1.30 6/14-Q-0-43·29 3.83 1.35 12/ 38-46-0-8-0 1.75 0.83 11/ 36-45-9-9-0 1.91 0.90 7/ 29-43-29-0-0 2.00 0.75 12/ 23-23-46-0-0 2.25 0.83 12/14-29-36-0-7 z.jo 1.04 9/ 10-20-40-10-10 2.89 1.10 18/17-39-33-11-0 2.39 0.89 11} 17-58-17-0-0 2.00 0.60 . 5/ 20-40-20-20-0 2.40 4/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 • • QUES 17 • QUES. 18 16/25-38-6-25-6 2.50 1.28 24/42-33-4-13-8 2.13 1.30 22/ 52-35-0-9-0 1.64 0.88 7/ 43-57-0-0-0 1.57 0.49 16/44-25-13-6-13 2.19 1.38 5/ 0-80-20-0-0 2.20 21/38-52-10-0-0 1.71 0.62 6/14-D-29-14·29 3.50 1.39 12/62-23-8-0-0 1.42 0.64 11/45-27-18-0-9 2.00 1.20 7/43-57-0-0-0 1.57 0.49 12/23-23-15-31-0 2.58 1.19 14/7·36-14-21·21 :M4 1.30 10/ 0-50-30-10-10 2.80 0.98 18/11-22-11-39-17 3.28 1.28 11/50-25-0-8-B 1.91 1.31 5 J 40-60-0-0-0 1.60 4/ 0-50-25-0-25 3.00 • • QUES 18 QUES. 19 16/19-50-13-19-0 2.31 0.98 24/ 33-46-13-4-4 z.oo 1.00 22/30-52-9-4-0 1.86 0.75 7/43-57-0-0-0 1.57 0.49 16/ 56-25-6-6-6 1.81 1.19 5/40-60-0-0-0 1.60 21/29-48-5-14-5 2.19 1.14 6/14-57-14-0·0 2.00 0.57 12/ 46-38-0-8-0 1.67 0.85 11/ 45-36-9-0-9 1.91 1.17 6/43-29-14-0-0 1.67 0.75 12/8-62-15-8-0 2.25 0.72 13/36·36-14-0-7 z.oo 1.11 10/4040-10-10-0 1.90 0.94 17/22-5D-li-6-6 2.18 1.04 11/ 33-33-!JJ-8-8 2.18 1.26 5/ 40-20-40-0-0 2.00 4/ 25-7 5-0-0-0 1.75 • • QUES 19 • QUES 20 15/ 13-69-6-0-6 2.13 0.89 24/ 4-83-8-0-4 2.17 0.69 22/22-70-4-0-0 1.82 0.49 7/ o-1oo-o-a-o 2.00 0.00 16/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 0.00 5/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 20/ 0-86-10-Q-0 2.10 0.30 6/ 43-43-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 12/ 0-92-0-0-0 2.00 0.00 11/ 0-10()..0-Q-0 2.00 0.00 7/43-57-0-0-0 1.57 0.49 12/46-31-8-&0 1.75 0.92 14/ 57\36-0-7-0 1.57 0.82 10/ 80-10-0-10-0 1.40 0.92 17/ 33-50-0-6-6 1.94 1.05 11/42~33-Q-17-0 1.91 1.09 4/ 40-40-0-0-0 1.50 4/ 15- 25-o-o-o 1.25 One will notice that independent studies are excluded as are courses with minimal or zero response. They only take up space since one or two answers have no meaning. The full report that was made available in the library last year, QUES 21 16/ 56-38-6-0-0 1.50 0.62 24/ 29-46-25-0-0 1.96 0.73 22/ 30..43-22-0-0 1.91 0.73 7/ 0-0-1 OD-0-0 3.00 0.00 16/13-44-38-6-0 2.38 0.78 5/ 0.0-100-0-0 3.00 21/19-43-38-Q-0 2.19 0.73 6/71-14-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 12/ 8-62-23·0-0 2.17 0.56 10/ Q-Q-82-o-9 3.20 0.60 6/29-14-43•0-0 2.17 0.90 12/8-31-54-0-0 2.50 0.65 13/ 7~29-57-0..0 2.54 0.63 10/ 0-20-80-0-0 2.80 0.40 18/17-11-72-0-0 2.56 0.76 11/ 0-17-75-D-0 2.82 0.39 5/0-0-100-0-0 3.00 3/ 0-0-75-Q-0 3.00 QUES 22 16/ 0-75-25-0-0 2.25 0.44 23/ 8-29-54-4-0 2.57 0.71 22/ 4-17-65-9-0 2.82 0.65 7/ (F. 29-71-0..0 2.71 0.45 16/ 0-38-44-19-0 2.81 0.73 5/ D-0-80-0-20 3.40 201 29-5-57-5-0 2.40 0.97 6/ 14-0-57-14-0 2.83 0.90 13/ 15-62-23-0-0 2.08 0.62 11/ 9-9-82-o-O 2.73 0.62 7/57-14-29-0-0 1.71 0.88 12/ 38·8-46-0-0 2.08 0.95 14/ 29-21-43-7\0 2.29 0.95 10/ 10-10-70-1(),.0 2.80 0.75 17/11-22·56-6-0 2.59 0~77 11/ 8-17-67-o-O 2.64 0.64 Sf 80-0-20-0-0 1.40 4/ 25-D-15-0-0 2.50 4 • ~ ~ 9 • • THE UNION COLL~G~ COURS~ ~VALUATION QUES ZO QUES 21 QUES 22 will again be put there in the near future. It will include the statistical data printed here, as well as some correlation of interest such as the grade received versus cumulative- index, grade received versus grade expected, etc. All responsibility for the information printed here is accepted by the Union College Course Evaluation editors. Questions from outside the Union College Community should be directed to us rather than the college. Fot those of you interested in the method behind this analysis, we refer you to the preface of Linebacker, Winter Term 1968. We will be happy to answer any questions on the actual data, methods, or any other phase of this survey. QUES 23 16/13-56-0-6-25 2.15 1:44 23/ 4-6~-4-4-21 2.74 1.29 22/ 9-52\0..4-30 2.95 1.49 6/ 0-86-0-0-0 2.00 0.00 16/ ()..56-6-13-25- 3,06 1.30 5/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 21/ 0-62-14-14-10 1.71 1.03 6{ 29-29-0-14-14 2~50 1.50 13/ 0-46-46-8-0 2.62 0.62 10/9-64-d-0-18 2.50 1.28 7 I 14-86-o-O-o 1.86 0.35 12/ 0-15-23-38-15 3.58 0.95 13/ 0-14-21-21-36 3.85 ;1.,10 10/ 20-20-10..20..30 3.20 1.54 15/ 17-S9-6-6·17- 2.60 1.40 11/8-42-25-8-8 2.64 1.07 5/ 0-60-20-0-20 2.80 4/ 0-25-50-25-0 3.00 lPRI L 2~, 19S9 IJ QUES 23 QUES 24 16/6-0-13-44-38 77 1.03 23/4-4-8-38-42 78 1.03 21/ 13-4-4-48-22 67 1.28 7 I O-O-Q.o29-n 93 0.45 16/ 0-13-13-19-56 80 1.08 5/ 0~0-0-80-20 80 20/5-0-10-38-43 80 0.98 6/ 0-14-29-29-14 63 0.96 12/15-0-0-15-62 79 1.46 10/ 9-0-9-45-27 73 1.14 7/ 0-0-14-29-57 86 0.73 12/8-23-23-23-15 54 1.21 14/ 7·7-50-21-14 57 1.03 10/10-30..2()-40-0 48 1.04 1B/17-22-17-29-17 52 1.35 111 I7-0·8-n5o 73 1.51 5/ 0-0-0-40-60 90 4/ 0·7.5·0·25-0 38 • • PAGE L-4 QUES 24 •

1.60 FRN-033-02 4/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 .. • ... ... .. ,. COURSE QUES IZ FRN-044-01 4/75-0-25-0-0 1.50 GER·OlO·Ol 7/ 25·Q-5Q-Q-13 2.71 1.28 GER-011·01 9/ 22-44·33•0-0 1.11' 0.73 GER-011-02 10/ 0-5Q-5Q-Q-0 2.50 0.50 GER-012-01 11/45-9-45-0-0 2.00 0.95 GER-031-01 4/25-50-25-0-0 2.00 GER-033-01 7} 29-43-14-14-0 2.14 0.99 RUS-011-01 6/ 83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 R.Us.IJ31•0l 3/ 100-0-0.0-0 1.00 SPN-011-01 6/ 50-50-0-0-0 • 1.50 0.50 SPN-011-02 14/ 29-50-7-14-0 2.07 0.96 SPN-033-01 5/ 40-0-20-0-40 3.00 PHL,.Ol0-01 9/40..20..30-0-0 1.89 0.87 PHI·LOS-01 5/60-20-2o-Q·O 1.60 PHL-031-01 S/40-40-20-0-0 1.80 PHL-033-01 8/75-13-0-0-13 1.63 1.32 PS-010-01 38/56·21-15·3-3 1.71 0.99 PS-011-01 28/7~31-3!H4-7 2.82 1.00 PS-012-01 i6} 44-13-25-13-6 2.25 1.30 PS-042-01 13/ 57-21-14-0-0 1,S4 0.74 :P§..M~-M 9} 67-gg-O-o.o 1.33 0.47 PS-062-01 S/ 3S-M-6-0-0 1.63 0.49 PS-064·01 16/50-44..()·Q-O 1.J6 0.61 PS-Q65·01 21/ o-48-38·5·10· 2.70 0.92 SOC-010-01 19/35-40-15-5-0 1.89 0.85 ANT-011·01 13/38-38·23-0-0 1.85 0.77 SOC-012-01 9/33-44-11-0-11 2.11 1.20 SOC-037-01 8/63-38-0-0-0 1.38 0~48 ANT-044·01 '!./ 67-'!.'!.-0-0-0 1.33 1.40 1.20 4.00 4/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 3/ 25-25-25-0-0 2.00 4/ 0-7.5-0-2.5-0 2.50 ~ ... .. .. . • • • • QUES l3 QUES 14 QUES 15 4/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 4/25-75-0-0-0 4/ 0-25-0-75-0 1.75 3.50 8/ 88-13-Q-0-Q 1.13 0.33 9/67-22-11-0-0 1.44 0.69 10/30-60-10-0-0 1.80 0.60 11/64-27-9-0-0 1.45 0.66 4/ 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 7/100.().0..0-0 1.00 0.00 fjf 17-50-0-17-17 2.67 1.37 8/38-50-0-0-13 8/ 25-0-13-38-25 2.00 1.22 3,38 1,49 9/ 56-22-22-0-0 9/ 0-33-22-33-11 1.67 0.82 2.22 1.03 10/20-40-20-20-0 10/10-10-10-70-0 2.40 1.02 3.40 1.02 11/ 27-55-9-0-9 11/ 18-18-0-55-9 2.09 1.09 3.18 1.33 4/100-0-0-0-0 4/ 0-25-25-0-501 1.00 3.75 7/43-57-0-0-0 7/0-0..14-43-43 1.57 0.49 4.29 0.70 6/17-17-17-17-33 6/0-33-0-50-17 3.33 1.49 3.50 1.12 3/67-3:J•O•(J..0 3/33o{M1•0•0 3/ 0.0•0•33r.67 1.33 2.33 4.67 6/ 67-33-0-0-0 6/ 83-0-0-17-0 6/17-0-33-50-0 ~-~~ 0 • .4 7 l.SO 1.1~ 2.17 1.0'7 14} B6-14-0-0-0 14/ 43-36-7-14-0 14/ 7-14-4g.g6-0 1.14 0.3S 1.93 1.03 3.07 0.88 5/60-40-0-0-0 5/40-60-0-0-0 5/ 0-60-0-40-0 1.40 1.60 2.80 9/ 40-50-0-0-0 8/ 0-4().;20-20-0 9/ 0..0..10-70..10 1.56 0.49 2.75 0.83 4.00 0.4:7 5/lOD-O-o-o-o 5/ 40-40·20-Q.O :i/ 2~D-D-40-0 1.00 1.80 2.60 5/ 60-20-0-20-0 5/ 40-20-20-20-0 5/ 0-0-0-60-40 1.80 2.20 4.40 8/75-0-0-13-13 8/50-25-0-13-13 6/13-0-13-38-1!3 1.88 1.54 2.13 1.45 3.50 1.26 39/87-10-3-0-0 39/44-44-8-5-0 39/5-31-18-38-8 1.15 0.42 1.74 0.81 3.13 1.019 27/21·55-1G-1·0 29/ 3-45-28-17-7 29/ 3-3-21-59-14 2.04 0.79 2.79 0.99 3.76 0.86 15/ 50-25-6-13-o 15/ gvH-1~-13-13 15/ 6-6-13-56-£3 L80 1.04 2.47 1.41 3.67 1.01 13/ 86-0-0-7-0 14/ 50-7-21-21-0 13/ 0-14-29-SD-0 1.13 0.80 2.14 1.24 3.38 0.73 9/ SS-56-11-0-0 9/ ~7-'11-11-0-0 9} 11-?R-0-11-0i 1. 78 0.63 1.44 0.~9 2.11 0. ?g 8125-50-25-0-0 8/0-75-13-0-13 8/38-13-50-0-0 2.00 0.71 2.50 1.00 2.13 0.9'3 16/69·31-Q-0·0 16/25-S0-6-13-6 15/6-0-25-50-13 1.31 0.47 2,2~ l.li 3,67 0,94 21/ 5-62-10-lQ-5 21/ 0-10-43-38-10 21/5-14-24-38-19 2.48 0.91 3.48 0.79 3.52 1.li0 19/ 35-55-5-0-0 19/ 5-40-35-10-5 18/5-0-45-35-5 1.68 0.57 2.68 0.92 3.39 0.82 13/38-46-15-0-0 13/23·23-15-31-B 13/31-23-31-s~s 1.77 0.69 2.77 1.31 2.38 1.21 9/78-22-0-0-0 9/22-44-11-11-11 9/ 0-0-33-33-33 1.22 0.41 2.44 1.26 4.00 0.82 8/63-25~13-0-0 8/ 38-25-25-13-0 8/ 0-0-63-2.5-13 1.50 0.71 2.13 1.05 3.50 0.71 'jf 67-'J'!.-0-0-0 3/ 0.61·0.33.0 J/ JJ•JJ•:1J·(J..0 1.33 2.67 2.00 1.60 ~} .50-0-25-0-0 1.67 ., • • • QUES 16 4/ 15-25-0-0-0 1.25 8/50-25-25-0-0 1.75 0.83 8/56-11-11-11-0 1.75 1.09 10/40-50-10-0·0 1.70 0.64 11/55-27-18-Q-0 1.64 0.77 4/ 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 6/ 57-29-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 5/ 33-17-33-0-0 2.00 0.89 3/67-33·0.0-0 1.33 4/33-17-0-D-17 2.'25 u;4 14/ 21-~6-43-0-0 2.21 0.77 4/ 60-20-0-0-0 1.25 10/ 30-70-0-0-0 1.70 0.46 5/60-40-0-0-Q 1.40 5/ 60-40-0-0-0 1.40 8/75-Q-0-13-13 1.88 1.54 .39/51-13-5-0-0 1.54 0.59 28/41-48-7-0-0 1.64 0.61 15/ 38-38-6-0..13 2.07 1.29 12/21;43-14-7-0 2.08 0.87 9/ ~~-56-11-0-0 1.78 0.6~ 8/13-6300-25-0 2.38 0.99 16( 44-44-6-6-6 1,66 1.11 21/19-33·14-24-10 2.71 1.28 19/15·25·30-15·10 2.79 1.20 12/23-31-23-15-0 2.33 1.03 9/ 22-56-11-0-11 2.22 1.14 8/13-63-13-13-0 2.25 0.83 3 I 1 oo-Ooo-()..0 1.00 2.40 4/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 • • • QUES 17 4/25-75-0-0-0 1.75 7/38-13-38-0-0 2.00 0.93 7/ 0-11-33-11-22 3,57 1,05 10/ 0-10-70-20-0 3.10 0.54 11/ 0-18-82-0-0 2.82 0.39 4/25-25-25-25-0 2.50 7/29-43-14-14-0 2.14 0.99 6/ 0-17-83-0-0 2.83 0.37 3/ OID-33-67-0 3.67 5/17-33-33-0-0 ~-M 0.75 14/ 21-14-64-0-0 2.43 0.82 5/20-20-60-0-0 2.40 10/ 0-50-30-0-20 2.90 1.14 5/ 0-40-40-20-0 2.80 5/ 40-60-0-0-0 1.60 8/13-·25-Q-63-0 3.13 1.17 39/33-41-15-10-0 2.03 0.95 29/ 7-45-7-24-17 3.00 1.29 15/19-38-13-19-6 2.53 1.20 13/21-43-14-7-7 2.31 1.14 .9/ '1'1-'J'J-11-3~-0 2.56 1.16 8/ 13-88-0-0-0 1.88 0.33 16/44-31-6-19-o 2.00 1.1Z 20/10-38-0-33-14 3.05 1.32 19/ 5-10-10-30-40 3.95 1.19 13/15-15-31-31-8 3.00 1.17 8/33-44-0-0-11 2.00 1.22 8/38-50-0-13-0 1.88 0.93 J/ (}-JJ•(Ki1-o 3.33 1.60 4/ 0-50-25-0-25 3.00 • • QUES 18 4/25-75-0-0-0 1.75 8/ 38-63-0-0-0 1.63 0.49 9/22-44-11-22-0 2.33 1.05 10/ 0-30-40-30-0 3.00 0.77 11/18-45-9-9-18 2.64 1.37 4/ 50-25-25-0-0 1.75 7/ 43-29-0-0-29 2.43 1.68 6/ 33-17-0-50-0 2.67 1.37 3/ 67-o.o.~tw 2.00 6/ 0-83-0-17-0 2.33 0.75 14/21-36~29-14-0 2.36 0.97 5/ 40-40-0-20-0 2.00 10/10-20-40-20-10 3.00 1.10 5/ 0.60-40-0..0 2.40 5/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 8/ 38-25-13-0-25 2.50 1.58 39/ 38-36-10-10-5 2.08 1.17 29/ 0-24-10-45-21 3.62 1.06 15/19-38-0-6-~1 2.93 1.61 12/50-21-0-7-7 Ul3 1.28 9/ 2'1-(;7-11-0-0 Ul9 O.S? 8/13-50-25-0-13 2.50 1.12 16/13-50-6-25-6 2,63 1,17 21/ 0-10-14-38-38 4.05 0.95 19/ 5-15-5-35·35 3.84 1.23 13/8-8-31-31-23 3.54 1.15 9/33-33-11-11-11 2.33 1.33 8/ 50-0-13-25-13 2.50 1.58 3/ 1Jo33·0.33·33 3.67 2.00 4/ 25-7 5-0-0-0 1.75 4/ 75-25-o-o-o 1.25 3( o-o-75-Q-0 3.00 4/ 25-Q-75-0-0 2.50 • • • • • ~ ~ 9 • • QUES 19 4/ 75-25-0-0-0 1.25 8/ 25-38-25-0-13 2.38 1.22 7/22-33-22-0-0 2.00 0.75 10/ 20-40-20-20-0 2.40 1.02 11/ 27-55-9-9-0 2.00 0.85 4/ 50-0-25-0-25 2.50 7/ 71-29.,()-0,.() 1.29 0.45 6/ 17-33-50-0-0 2.33 0.75 'J/ 'j'j.'j'j.'j'j.0-0 2.00 6/33-67-0-0-0 1,67 Q,47 14/ 14-29-57-lhO 2.43 0.73 5/40-60·0-0-0 1.60 10/ 0-60-30-10-0 2.50 0.67 5/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 5/ 60-40-0-0-0 1.40 8/50-13-13-25-0 2.13 1.27 38/46-33-10-8-Q 1.79 0.92 28/7-41-21~14-14 2.86 1.19 15/25-31-6-6-25 2.73 1.57 14/14-36-7-7-7 2.00 1.20 9} 1M1-11-11-0 2.11 0.99 8/ 0..75-0-25-0 2.50 0.87 16{ 19-56-6-13-6 2.Jl 1.10 21/ 0-19-10-48-24 3.76 1.02 19/ 5-20-10-35-25 3.58 1.23 13/ 23-54-0-8·15 2.38 1.33 9/33-56-0-0-11 2.00 1.15 8/38-25-0-21B-0 2.38 1.32 3/ 0·33·33·33·0 3.00. THE UNION COLL~G~ COURS~ ~VALUATION QUES ZO QUES 21 QUES 22 4/ 25-7 5-0-0-0 1.75 8/ 63-38-0-0-0 1.38 0.48 9( 56-44-0-0-0 1.44 0.49 10/ 20-40-0-20-20 2.80 1.47 11/ 55-36-0-0-9 1.73 1.14 4J 50-50-D-0-0 1.50 7/ 29-43-14-0-14 2.29 1.28 6/67-17-0-17-0 1.67 1.10 3/ 67-JJ-0-0-0 1.33 6/ 50-33-0-0-17 2 2.00 1.41 14/ 71-7-7-7-7 1.71 1.28 4/60-0-0-0-20 2.00 9/ 0-90-0-0-0 2.00 0.00 5/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 5/ 20-60-20-0-0 2.00 8/13-63-0-13-13 2.50 1.22 39/ 0-87-5-0-8 2.28 0.82 28/ Q-52-45-Q-0 2.46 0.50 15/ 19-63-13-0-0 1.93 0.57 13/ 0-86-0-0-7 2.23 0.80 9} 0-100-0-ChO 2.00 0.00 8/ 38-50-13-0..0 1.75 0.66 16/ 0-75·25-Q-0 2.25 0.44 21/ 5-24-33-24-14 3.19 1.10 19/ 0-30-55-5-5 2.84 0.75 13/ 0-69-31-0-0 2.31 0.47 9/22-78-0-0-0 1.78 0.41 8/0-38-38-13-13 3.00 1.00 3/ ()..67-3~0-0 2.33 4/ 0-0-75·25-0 3.25 8/ 0-0-100-0-0 3.00 0.00 9/ 0-33·56·11-0 2.78 0.63 10/ 50-20-30-0-0 1.80 0.87 11/ 0-36-64-0-0 2.64 0.48 4/ 25-D-75-0-0 2.50 6/ o-29-51-o-o 2.67 0.47 6/17-33-50-0-0 2.33 0.75 3/ ~0-67~33~0 3.33 6/ 17-33-5o-o-o Z.3:J 0.1S 14/ 7· Z'J·64·Q-0 2.57 0.62 5/ 0-0-80-20-0 3.20 10/ 0-20-80-00> 1.M 0.40 5/ 0-0-80-20..0 3.20 5/ 20-0-80-0-0 2.60 8/13-13-50-13-13 3.00 1.12 38/38-51-8-0-0 1.68 0.61 28/ 59-34-0-0-3 1.50 0.82 15/ 13-13-63-6-0 2.67 0.79 14/ 0-43-57-0-0 2.57 0.49 9} 11-33-56-0-0 2.44 0.69 8/ 0-0-100-0-0 3.00 0.00 16/19-44-38-0-0 2.19 0.73 21/ 33-52-14-0-0 1.81 0.66 19/ 35-40-20-0-0 1.84 0.75 13/ 8-31-62-0-0 2.54 0.63 8/ 0-22-67-0-0 2.75 0.44 8/ 0-0-88-13-0 3.13 0.33 3/ ()..0.67-33-0 3.33 4/0-25-75-0-0 2.75 8/ 88-0-13•0-0 1.25 0.66 9/ 67-0-33-0-0 1.67 0.94 10/ 70-0-30-0..0 1.60 0.92 11/73-0-27-0-0 1.55 0.89 4/25-D-SD-0-25 3.00 6/ 43-0-43--D-O 2.00 1.00 6/ 83-0-0-17-0 1.50 1.12 3/ 33-0-67-0-0 2.33 6/67-0-33-0-0 1.67 0;94 HI 57-1~2V7-o 1.79 1.01 5/20-20-40-20-0 2.60 10/ 10-2D-7(}.0-0 ~.60 0.66 5/ 0-20-60-20-0 3.00 5/ 0-0-20-0-80 4.60 8/ 25-0-38-25-13 3.00 1.32 38/ 0-8-5-3-82 4.63 0.90 29{ 3-17-7-7-66 4.14 1.31 15/ 19-13-63-0-0 2.47 0.81 13/ 0-7-0-14-71 4.62 0.83 9/ 044-11-3~11 3.11 1.10 8/ 13-2.5-SO-H-0 2.63 0.86 16/ Q-19· 75·6·0 :2.86 0.48 21/ 14-33-48-5·0 2.43 0.79 19/ 5-15-60-15-0 2.89 0.71 12/ 0-0-15-0-77 4.67 0.75 8/ 0-11-78-0-0 2.88 0.33 8/13-13-50-25-0 2.88 0.93 ']j 0-0-0-0-100 5.00 4/ 0-25-50-25-0 3.00 4/ 0·75·0·15·0 38 lPRI L 2~, 19S9 e • • PAGE L-4 QUES 23 4/ 0-100-0-0-0 2.00 8/13-50-13-0-25 2.75 1.39 9/22-33-0-0-44 3.11 1. 73 10/ 20-40-20-10-10 2.50 1.20 11/18-36-9-9-27 2.91 1.51 4/ 25-50-0·0-25 2.50 6/ 0-29-14-0-43 3.67 1.37 6/ 0-33-0-33-33 3.67 L25 IJ) 0-6-M-6-33 g_oo 6/0-50-17-0-33- 3,17 l,JS 14/ <>-5<>-7-No 3.29 1.38 5 J 20-40-20-0-20 2.60 9/ 0-50-10-10-20 3.00 1.25 5/ 0-40-4Q-()-20 3.00 5/ 0-60-20-20-0 2.60 8/ 38-13-38-0-13 2.38 1.32 38/ 21-49-10-0-18 2.4.5 1.33 28{ 17-11-·7-31-24 3.29 1.46 15/ 25-38-13-6-13 2.40 1.31 13/ 7-50-7-0-29 2.92 1.44 9/ 044-11•0-44 3.44 1.42 7/ 0-50-13-13\13 2.86 1.13 15/ 0-31·6·19-38- 3.67 1.30 21/29·10-5-29-29 3.19 1.62 18/30-25-10-15-10 2.44 1.38 13/23-23-0-15-38 3.23 1.67 8/ 0--56-3 3-0-0 2.88 0.48 8/ 25-13-0-13-50 3.50 1.73 'J/ 'j'j.'J'J-0-3~0 2.33 QUES 24 4/0-0-25-0-75 88 8/ 0-13-13-50-25 72 0.93 9/ 0-11.22-67-0 64 0.69 10/ 0-0-40-60-0 65 0.49 11/ 18-18-0-18-45 64 i.62 4/ 0·25·25·0.50 69 6/ Q-0-29•29-29 75 0.82 6/ 0-0-33-33-33 75 0.82 3/ 0-0-33-67-0 67 6/ Q-17-17-33-33 11 1.01 14/ Q-14·2143·21 68 0.9.5 5/ 20-20-0-40-20 55 9( 0-0-20-4Q-30 78 0.73 5/0-0-D-60-40 85 4/ 0-20-20-2()-20 63 8/ 38-13-13-13-13-25 44 1.64 38/3-3-15-18-59 S3 1.00 29/ 24-21-38-17-0 37 1.04 16/25-19-0-13-44 58 1.72 14{ 0-14-14-14-57• 7') I.lJ ?/ ll-11-11-33·33 67 1.33 8/13-0-25-50-13 63 1.12 16/ 0-13-2~SO-H 66 0.86 21/ 24-43-19-10-5 32 1.07 19/ 15-30-35·10-5 40 1.04 12/ 15-23-38-8-8 42 1.10 8/ 0-0-22·33-33 78 0.78 8/ 0-25·25·25·25 63 1.12 3/ Q-33-Q-33-33 67 •

(.)Q \f\\\\' i-.l ·_ \-\' d) \ 'tri '\\\ . .. '\\ e! 0. .... 0 E-< 0 <ll 0 - <ll fi 1:: ::::! ~ E-< <ll <ll ~ <ll <ll E: .:::! 1>1.) ~ · 8 ~ ~ o c: t: ~ 2u .... 1;; g Q) :.a <ll ~ t; S ~ '1:1 'E! .\' ;::1 .~:: S .8 ~'52 .S ~ 8 o ~ ...; o:: 8 ~ ~ e ,;: -s ·~ {5 ~ ~ ~ ~<a ~ .~ § .8 i -~ 8 8 ~ c.8 ·u .g .s 0 +-l ·.--. bb ~--=~c.-::lo.,a uo::l._.~ ::l I- -----:::--- <.. & :~ COURSE INSTRUCTOR RRT/ENROLL QUES 1 FRN-044-01 Raser R 4 6 67% 4/25-25-25-25•0 2.50 GER-010-01 Pe~hka R 8 12 67% 8/13-25,25-25-13 3.00 1.22 GER-Qll-01 Schlebusch R 9 17 53% 9/ 11-11-33-~2-22 3.33 1.25 GER-011-02 Schlebusch R 10 25 40% 10/3G-3Q-30-1Q-O 2.20 0.98 GER-012-01 Peschka R 11 19 58% 11/9-9-18-45-18 3.55 1.16 GER-031-01 Peschka R 4 6 67% 4/ Q-5Q-0-25-2S 3.25 GER-033-01 Klemm R 7 19 37% 7/29-14-57-0-o 2.29 0.88 RUS-011-01 Petelchuk R 6 11 50% 6/17-33-33-17-0 2.50 0.96 RUS-()31-01 Petelchuk R 3 5 60% 3/ 0-33-67-0-Q 2.67 SPN-011-01 Rawe R 6 18 33% 6/ G-17-33-33-17 3.50 0.96 ~PN-Qll-()2 Vinick R 14 17 82% 13/1-14-29-29-14 3.31 1.14 SPN-033-01 Vinick R 5 9 56% 5/ Q-0-6040.() 3.40 PHL-010-01 Foster R 10 18 56% 10/ ().,30-2040-10 3.30 1.00 PIU.LOS-01 Parker P 5 9 56% 5/40-20.,.20-2<Ml 2.20 PHt-O:H-01 .Peterson R 5 11 45% 5/2o-2o-204o-o ~.~Q P}JL-033-01 D. George R 8 19 42% 8/13-25-25-38-0 2.88 LOS PS-010-Q1 Sharlet R 39 55 11% 39/5\31-2L26\18 3.21 1.20 PS-011·01 Underwood R 29 50 58% 28/10-21-34-21-10 3.00 1.14 PS-012•01 Connor R 16 23 70% 16/6-38-31-25-Q 2.75 0.90 PS-Q42-01 Sharlet R 14 21 67% 14/ 14-5Q-21·7·7 2.43 1.05 PS-043-01 Nichols R. 9 16 56% 9/ 33-22-11-33-0 l.44 l.l6 PS-Q62-Q1 W, Daniels R. 8 12 67% 8/13·50.25·13·0 2.38 0.85 PS-064-01 Underwood R 16 25 64% 16/19-31-38-6-6 2.50 1.06 PS-065-01 Hartwig R 21 39 54% 21/14-43-38-5-0 2.33 0.77 SOC-010-01 Willison R 20 39 51% 20/1G-3Q-2S-25-10 2.95 1.16 ANT•Oll-01 Rheubottom R 13 26 50% 13/ 0.8·54·31·8 3.38 0.73 SOC-012-01 S. Fox R 9 23 39% 9/ Q-44-44·11·0 2.67 0.67 SOC-Q37-01 S, Fox R 8 16 50% 7/ 0.13-50•25·0 3.14 .0;64 ANT.-044-01 Rheubottom R 3 5 60% 3/ 0-33-67-0~0 2.67 ------- C\ QUES 2 3/ 25·50-Q-0-0 1.67 8/ 38-25\25-13-0 2.13 JJ.OS 9/ 0-44-33-22-0 2.78 0.79 I0/10-6o-3o-o-o 2.20 0.60 11/9-27-36-18-9 2.91 1.09 4/ 25-2s-5o-o-o 2.25 7/ 57-29-14-0-0 1.57 0.73 6/67-1J,J.7.Ck0 1.50 0.76 3/33-67-0-0-0 1.67 6/33-33-17-17-0 2.17 1.07 14/7-57-29-0-7 2.43 0.90 5/ o-40-60-0-0 2.60 9/10-60.20-0-0 2.11 0.57 5/ 20-80-0-0·0 1.80 5/ o-100-o-o-o 4.00 8/ 13-38-25-13-13 2.75 1.20 36/8\38\36-8-3 2.56 0.86 28/7-52-2S+3 2.46 0.87 16/13-38-25-25-0 2.63 0.99 14/ 7·5Q-36•7·0 2.43 0.73 8/ 0-67-n-o.o 2.25 0.44 8/38-38-13-13-0 2.00 1.00 15/ 6-50-31-6-0 2.40 0.71 21/14-62-24-0-0 2.10 0.61 20/ Q-55-30-15·0 2.60 0.73 12/ 8·8-46· 23·8 3.17 0.98 9/11-78-11-Q-0 2.00 0.47 7/ 0-63-25-(}-0 2.29 0.45 3/ 0-33-33-33-0 3.00 :: QUES 3 4/ 75-25-0-o-o 1.25 8/ 38-25-38-0-0 2.00 0.87 9/11-33-56-Q-0 2.44 0.69 10/30-4Q-30-0-0 2.00 0.17 11/ 9-27-45-9~9 2.82 1.03 4/25-25·5o-o-o 2.25 7/43-57-0-0-0 1.57 0.49 6/67-17•17-0-0 1.50 0.76 3/ 33-33-33-0-0 2.00 6/ 33-33-33-0-0 2.00 0.82 14/ 21-50-21-7-0 2.14 0.83 5/ 20-40-40-0-0 2.20 9/20-60-10-0-0 1.89 0.57 5/40-60·0-Q-0 1.60 5/ 0-100·0-0·0 ~.oo 8/25-38-25-13-0 2.25 0.97 39/21-54-23-0-3 2.10 0.81 27/10-55-24-0-3 2.26 0.80 16/25-56-19-0·0 1.94 0.66 14/ 14-50-29-7·0 2.29 0.79 9/ 0-78-11-11-0 2.33 0.67 8/38·38·0·25·0 2.13 1.17 15/25-50-19-0-0 1.93 0.68 21/33-52-14-0-0 1.81 0.66 20/ 0-65-25-10.() 2.45 0.67 12/ 23-38-23·8-0 2.17 0.90 9/11-78-11-0·0 2.00 0.47 7/25·63-Q-(}-0 1.71 0.45 3/ 0-33-0-67-0 3.33 ::S=c::l ~oc.._. ..... u .... \' \'._. ·- o » Q) u ·a ~ o .... «S = :5 \' ..... » ..... 0 _t:: C ..S:: ~<ll ,_, • ~ .~ r? ..S:: '1:1 ....., ..::! 0 «l ~ (/) ~ CIJ t\S .,._.a ... ~ ~ '\'d .-s ~ Q.) co (.) ~ 0.. ·- QUES 4 QUES 5 4/ 25-75-0-Q-0 4/ 0-25-5Q-25·0 1.15 3.00 7/63-13-13-0-0 8/ 0-13-13-5()-25 1.43 0.73 3.88 0.93 8/33-22-11-22-0 8/ 0-33-33-11-11 2.25 1.20 3.00 1.00 9/40-0-40-0-10 9/10-20-30-20-10 2.33 1.33 3.00 1.15 11/ 45-9-45-0-0 11/ 0-9-27-36-27 2.00 0.95 3.82 0.93 4/75-0-25-0-0 4/ Q-0-0-75-25 1.50 4.25 7/57-29-14-0-0 7/ 14-43-29-14-0 1.57 0.73 2.43 0.90 6/50-33-0-17-0 6/17-33-17-17-17 1.83 1.07 2.83 1.35 3/ 67-33-0-0-0 3/ 0-0-33-0-67 1.33 4.33 6/67-0-0-17-17 6/33-17-0-17-33 2.17 1.68 3.00 1.73 12/36-29-21-0-0 14/14-0-29-29-29 1.83 0.80 3.57 1.29 5/ Q-40-4Q-2Q-O 5/ 20-0-20-40-20 2.80 3.40 10/60-40-0-o-o 9/20-60-10-Q-0 1.40 0.49 :!.89 0.57 5/404Q-20-0-0 5/ D-0-40-40.20 1.80 3.80 5/60·20.20-0-0 5/ 0-0-20-4().40 1.60 4.10 8/75-0-13-0-13 8/13·0·0·50-38 1.75 1.39 4.00 1.22 37/59-21-10-5-0 38/ 38-51-38-0-0 1.59 0.88 1.68 0.61 28/34-14-41-7-0 29/48-48-3-0-0 2.21 1.01 1.55 0.56 15/31-31-13-19·0 16/56-44-0-0.() 2.20 1.11 1.44 0.49 14/50-7-29-14-0 13/79-7-7-0-0 2.07 1.16 1.23 0.57 9/ 89-0-11-0-0 9/ 0-22-44-33-0 1.22 0.63 3.11 0.73 8/38-38·13·13-0 8/13-63~25-0-0 2.00 1.00 2.13 0.60 15/ 69-13-6-6-0 16/ Q-63-31-6-0 1.47 0.88 2.44 0.61 20/19-24-33-19-o 211 14-81-5-o-o 2,55 1.02 1.90 0.42 20/60-20-20-0-0 20/25-35-30-10-0 1.60 0.80 2.25 0.94 13/31-15-46-8-0 12/ B-31-31-23-0 2.31 0.99 2.75 0.92 9/33-44-11-11-0 9/ 0-22-56-22-0 2.00 0.94 3.00 0.66 8/38-50-13·0-0 1.75 0.66 ?,f 100-0-0-0-0 1.00 7/ 0-25-25-38-0 3.14 0.83 3/ 0-Q-33·0-67 4.33 : TT QUES 6 4/ lOQ-0-0-0-0 1.00 8/ 63-38-0-0-0 1.38 0.48 9/33-56-11-0-0 1.78 0.63 10/ 30-50-20-0-0 1.90 0.70 11/55-45-0-0-0 1.45 0.50 4/100-Q-0-0-0 1.00 7/ 57-29-14-Q-0 1.57 0.73 6/83-17-0-0-0 1.17 0.37 3/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 6/ 67-33-0-0-0 1.33 0.47 14/71-29-0-0-0 1.29 0.45 5/ 4Q-40-20-0-0 1.80 10/ 40-60-Q-0-0 1.60 0.49 5/ 80-20·0·0-0 1.00 5/ 90-20-0-0-0 1.20 8/75·13·0-13-0 1.50 1.00 39/ 77-15-3-5-0 1.36 0.77 28/14-48-10-14-10 1.57 1.20 16/ 63-6-19-6-6 1.88 1.27 14/93-7-0-0-0 1.07 0.24 9/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 8/ 50-38-13-0-0 1.63 0.70 16/ 5044-0-6·0 1.63 0.78 21/38-29-14-14-5 2.19 1.22 19/4G-50-5-0-0 1.63 0.58 13/15-77-8-0-0 ·1.92 0.48 9/ 44-33-11-0-11 2.00 1.25 8/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 0.50 3/67-33-0-0-0 1.33 '-' LL. -- <ll ... \' • I'.; t1J (<:! - ;;>.. C<:l -' ..... -- (u' <ll u §.s.s ;]-ao.gjl'S;:! ~~ ~~ ~-E l>i.l'o .,_. l;h~ <llM.~·a\2 «Sf:l]f:J\g~ s~ ~ ,...t:Q~Oo-a 0-Eb~.~~ ~ ~ ::l '\' o ...s::; '-' :< .,_, 0..'1:1 <ll .=: \' ~ <ll \' V) .D ~ ..<::: ::1 ro E- '\' ... .:s::: ~ '1:1 ::l ~ ~ \' ~ _g 2 8 q .u a:> til ~ ~ ~ ta :g ...... E a~ a ~1:5 a-. o § ~ :t:: .B a -;..::: ..:g u 81:J ...... ,.D J5 <ll o <ll.,.. ~ <ll § '1:1 «l <t: ~ oo ~ o ::l o.u .D o. ~ (!;; ]1 .S :..0 E- - ~ ~ <E a: .S ,£1 m .=: u ~ ~ a: !i «~ :: .:3 ~ ~ ..c; .S <I> QUES 7 4/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 7/63-25-0-0-0 1.29 0.45 9/22-22-33-22-0 2.56 1.06 10/4040-20-0-0 1.80 0.75 11/ 27-45-9-9-9 2.27 1.21 4/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 7/ 57-29-14-0-0 1.57 0.73 6/ 50-33·0-17-0 1.83 1.07 3/ 33-0-33-0-33 3.00 6/ 50-33-17-0-0 1.67 0.75 14/ 36-36-29-0-0 1.93 0.79 5/ 20-60-IJffi0-0 2.20 9/ 20-60-0-10-0 2.00 0.82 Sf 0-60-20-2Q-O 2.60 ~} {;1}.,10-i\-0..10 ~.00 8/25-25-0-13-38 3.13 1.69 38/ 58-23-8-8-3 1.74 1.07 29/ 3-52-14-17-14 2.86 1.17 15/25-31-0-13-25 2.80 1.60 14/79-21-0-0-0 1.21 0.40 9/56-33-11-0-0 1.56 0.69 8/25-B-13-50-0 2.88 1.27 16/ 19-38-25-19-0 2.44 0.99 21/14-10-14-29-33 3.51 1.40 19/1G-1Q-10-45-20 3.58 1.23 11/13-B-8~38-15 3.17 1.46 9/ 33-44-11-0-11 2.11 1.20 8/ 0-0-50-13-39 3.88 0.93 3/ 0-67-33-0-0 2.33 ··-o.,. ... - THE UNION COLLEGE COURSE EVALUATION QUES 8 4/ 50-50-0-0-0 1.50 7/38-25-13-Q-13 2.14 1.36 9/11-33-33-22-0 2.67 0.94 9/10-40-20-20-0 2.56 0.95 11/27-64-0-0-9 2.00 1.04 4/50-25-25-0-0 1.75 7/71-14-[1-14-0 1.57 1.05 6/17-17-17·33·17 3.17 1.35 3/ 33-0-33-33-0 2.67 6/67-17-6-17-0 1.67 1.10 14/43-50-0-7-0 1.71 0.79 5/ 40-40-20-0-0 1.80 10/10-60-20-10-0 2.30 0.78 5/ 20-40-2(}-20-0 Z,40 S/ 40-60-0-0.,.o u;o 8/25-13-13-38-13 3.00 1.41 39/ 54-31-8-5-3 1.72 0.98 29/7-28-17\38\10 3.17 1.15 15/25-25-6\25-13 2.73 1.44 14/71-14-0-14-0 1.57 1.05 9/56-44-0-Q-0 1.44 0.49 8/13-50-0-25-13 2.75 1.30 16/13-44-13-31-0 2.63 1.05 21/ 0-14-29-29-29 3.71 1.03 19/5-10-1Q-25-45 4.00 1.21 13/ 8-62-8-0-23 2.69 1.33 9/ 56-22-0-0-22 2.11 1.59 . '; •' B/ 0-25-39-2:5-13 3.25 0.97 3/ 33-67-0~0LO 1.67 ' . QUES 9 4/5G-5Q-O-O-O 1.50 8/100-0-0-o-o 1.00 0.00 9/ 67-22-11-0-0 1.44 0.69 10/ 80-10-10-0-0 1.30 0.64 11/ 73-27-0-0-0 1.27 0.45 4/ 75-25-0-0-0 1.25 7/ 86-14-0·0-0 1.14 0.35 6/50-33-Q-Q-17 2.00 1.41 3/ 33-33-0-33-0 2.33 6/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 0.00 14/79-21-0-0-0 1.21 0.40 5/ 80-20-0-0-0 1.20 10/20-60-10-10-0 2.10 0.83 5/ Q-80-0·20-0 Z.40 5/ 60-40-0-0-0 1.40 8/25-39-0-38-0 2.50 1.22 38/ 15-41-13-26-3 2,58 1.12 28/ 3-21-7-38-28 3.68 1.20 16/ 6-13-6-50-25 3.75 1.14 14/ 0-14-29-36-21 3.64 0.97 9/33-67-Q-0-0 1.67 0.47 8/38-25-25-13-0 2.13 1.05 16/13-56-0·6-25 2.75 1.44 21/5-10-0-57-29 3.95 1.04 19/ 0-5-10-40-40 4.21 0.83 13/8-54-0-23-15 2.85 1.29; 9/11-0-33-33-22 3.56 1.16 8/ 0-0-25-13-6~ 4.38 0.85 3/ 67-0-0-33-0 2.00 ..., APRIL 22, 1969 QUES 10 4/ 5Q-25.25-Q-O 1.75 8/13-5Q-25-13·0 2.38 0.85 9/11-33-22-22-11 2.89 1.20 9/ 0-20-40-30-0 3.11 0.73 11/18-18-27-9-27 3.09 1.44 4/50-25-0-0-25 2.25 7/29-43-14-0-14 2.29 1.28 6/ Q-50-17-17-17 3.00 1.15 3/ 33-33-33-0-0 2.00 6/ 0-33-5();.17-0 2.83 0.69 14/ 0-7-71:14-7 3.21 0.67 5/20-20-40-0 2.80 10/2G-7Q-0-10-0 2.00 0,77 5/ 60-0-20-20-0 2.(:10 5( 6Q-20-2Q-Q-Q 1.60 8/75-0-13-13-0 1.63 1.11 39/36-36-10-13-5 2.15 1.19 29/ 3\7-28-31-31 3.79 1.06 15/38-13-13.{;-25 2.61 1.66 . 14/43-7-29-14-7 2.36 1.34 9/ 56-44·0-0-0 1.44 0.49 8/38-25-25-0-13 2.25 1.30 16/6-50-13-19·13 2.81 1.29 21/ 5-10-29-29-29 3.67 1.13 i9/5-35-15-25-15 3.11 1.21 13/15-25-38~15-15 .3.00 1.24 9/33-44-11-0-11 2.11 1.20 8/50-25-13-0-13 2.00 1.32 .. 3/ 33-0-67-0-0 ·. i.33 .. --··- ~ - ~ PAGE L-3 QUES 11 4/100-0-0-0-0 1.00 7/38-38-13-0-0 1.71 0.70 9/22-44-33-0-0 2.11 0.73 10/3040-0-30-Q 2.30 1.19 11/36-45•18-o-o 1.82 0.71 4/100-0-Q-Q-0 . 1.00 7/71-29-0-0-0 1.29 '0.45 6/17-50-0-17-17 2.67 1.37 3/33-33-0-33-0 2.33 6/ 67-33-0-0-01 1.33 0.47 14/43-36-21-0-0 1.79 0.77 5/40-60-0-0-0 1.60 10/10-50-20-10-10 . 2.60 1.11 5/20-60-0-20-0 2.20 ~{ZQ-60·Zo-o-o 2,00 8/25-38-0-25-13 2.63 1.41 39/72-21-5-3-0 1.38 0.70 29/1+55-14-14-3 2.38 0.9.9 15/ 25-38-13-6-13 2.40 1.31 13/86-7-0-0-0 1.08 0.26 9/44-33-11-11-0 1.89 0.99 8/ 0-50-13-38-0 2.88 0,93 16/ 31-38-19-0-13 2.25 1.25 21/ 5-43-14-24-14 3.00 1.20 19/5-10-Q-45-35 4.00 1.12 13/15-46-8-23·8 2.62 1.21 9/ 56-44-Q-0-0 1.44 0.49 8/38-38-13-0-13 2.13 1.27 3/ 0-67-0-0-33 . 3.00

D! ··c; • i al c :IL 22, 1969 ped ;I Founded at Union College 1877 • ·~ ----~----~~----------------~------~------------------~--------------------~~~------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~== ~V-~_t_._98~,_ru_o_._4_2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~C=H=E~N_E_C_T~ADY,NY.,APR~2~1969 PRICE~WENTYCEN~ · :Poli Sci ModHies Comps, Humanities Plans Major Evaluation In Fall gain topped all, sity, vii th a time 440 and mile• in 46.8 and lr a tenth of a lan Rochester'st time); the high ilike Rich at 6' etter than the • the triple jump, Ramm leaped : put, won by• at 40'8\; the Thickens took The Political Science Department wil:J conduct comprehensive examinations under a revised format as a result of a meeting Wednesday of the department and its stude.nt c representatives. According to Martin Uchterman, acting chairman of the ,department and Dean: of the Humanities and Social SCiences, there was an \agr to a modification\ of the comps this spring. The special exam and the · \\ takehome sections of the political science cornps have been incorporated into one six-day-long exercise limited to20 pages. toss; and thee. ch :Mike Rich in other action on the camps, students Dan Aronz(')n, Jim Stillman, and Nicholas Cava attended a Division t I committee meeting and proposed an winning meets alter native to comprehensive osh have shown examinations. Urge Seminars ng;th and clepth t They presented a plan to replace all events. Coach comprehensive examinations with 1 's · increased seminars for seniors. No action was :n to continue • taken on this proposal, since action been relieved of must come from the individual departments in the Humanities .es, has brought eli · · · · VISlOt'l. f fine trackmen 1 The Division voted to study the the frosh move situation of seniors who are forced to Jks next spring, rtake fmal examinations in subjects to a renaissance 1 . · .~utside of their major fields. 1 According to Professor Niemeyer, lutchmen. :chairman of the Division, topes to break column this 1 t hosts SUNY ' . ew Paltz on .· ... ld. Both the ~ Dsh travel to rk Saturday to ence. Last year, 1 • : Union's only , tmet cindermen 87~58 score. In 1 of the series, n 1967, the also victorious. ·• •TE'S ine Home Food in Our ·I ining Room comprehensive examinations will begin .\'> ·<>n Monday. However, comprehensive examinations and their place in the curriculum will be evaluated in the fall. Students Petition The changes in the format of the 'Poli Sci camps came about after an rUnorganized group of about 75 seniors ·! -net Monday night at Phi Sigma Delta. il'he group decided to bring their -opposition to camps in any form to rt the faculty. Following the meeting, a petition opposing comps on the grounds that they serve no academic vurpose was ~ . :Classes To Elect 1970 Officers On Mon. Night mell Gate Street Initial elections for class office will • ' be held April 28 from 6:30p.m. to 11 ·p .. m. Run-off elections for any election where one candidate does not get an 1 to 1 A.M. 1 , , absolute majority will be held . to 1 A.M. Thursday, May 1, during the same hours. )W. .00 .oo .00 ;0() Candidates for president of the ~ class of '70 are; Howard Blank, :Edward Buzak, Peter Garrison, Mike Martell, and Bill Boehmke. For president of the class of '71 the 1 nominations are James Kadamus and George Kelley. Nominees for president of the class of '72 are John 1 Whroumoulos, Henry Casten, Steven W<>Od, and Henry Duchscherer. Vice-Presidential candidates for the class -of '70 are; Mike Keese,· Jim . t Nelson, and John Brennan. For the 1ice-ptesident of class of '71 they are -Guy Caruso and Bruce Garber. For \Vice-president of the class of '72; ·~· (Jerald Hyman, Mark Klein,. and Bill Maid. Candidates for secretary for the <I (lass of '72 are George Kaplan and ]ob Coombs. There are no candidates :f()r secretary from the classes of '70 or \H. - <~ Candidates for treasurer of the class l>f '70 are Jeffrey South and Richard .Adams. For the treasurer of the class .~ 0 CJf '71; Tom Davison. For the treasurer of the class of '72; Robert Mictaels(')n, (Jharles Stahl, and Peter Dailey. All candidates are subject to a llllllaiiiiiiiiiM () • Jletition certification at this time. circulated. Accmding to Abby Stillman, over 900 students signed the petition. A boycott of comprehensives was considered, but .the seniors decided to try to have the C(')mps eliminated or at least modified without a boycott. Stillman told Co11cordiensis last night that he hopes to see changes in the comp.rehsnsives given in other departments besides Political Science. He said he hopes that in the future a student's performance on the c0mps will not be a factor in determining whether or not the student graduates. '70 TO MEET Ed Buzak, Junior Class President, has announced that there will be an organizational meeting of the Junior Class, Thursday, May I, at 11:30 a.m. in SS016. The meeting will be for the purpose of discussing problems that face members of the Calss of '70. Committees will be established to study probiems such as the comprehensive examinations, the future of Comp. Ed., and requirements for seniors .in regard to fmal examinations. Buzak emphasized that this meeting is for all juniors, fr0m both Centers I amd II. The committees will consist of 10 to 15 people and will offer suggestions at the end of the study of a problem. Eliminate Major Among additional changes Stillman hopes for is the elimination of the requirement that all students major in a field, taking twelve or more courses in that field. He stated that, in requiring students to select a major, \the c0Uege is not treating us as adults.\ Students should be allowed to select any courses they want without restricti0ns, he said. A student who plans to attend a graduate school where a certain number of undergraduate courses in a particular ·field may be required for admission could still major in that field. Hourly exams, which \require students to regurgitate facts and do not encourage thinking on the student's part,\ should be re-examined, Stillman said. He pointed to ,the use by the Plitical Science department of \perception exercises,\ which require analysis rather than memorization as one of the psssible substitutes for hourlies. Stillman stated that he is not opposed to requiring seniors to take fmals, but that he did not think it fair that the decision was made effective immediately even though the students involved b,ad already chosen their courses under the assumption they would not be required to take finals. Ruling Unfair Stillman also pointed out that although the Faculty Council vote was 9-3 for the new rules, only two ofthe nine votes in favor were cast by (photo by George Kaplan) Ted Sorenson, ex-Presidential adviser, and Prof. Robert Herman, chairman of the economics department, listen to Martin Lichterman's opening remarks at Tuesday's Political Forum-.sponsored panel discussion. Story on Page 3. members of Center I, the Center in which comps .are given. Stillman said he feels that the ruling was made by faculty members who are not directly involved with the issue. The seaUng of student representatives at the Political Science department meeting Wednesday was a first for that department, although the decision to include student representatives at department meetings was made last spring. Professor Joseph Board, chairman of the department, originally mwed to have students at department meetings last spring. But due to his leave of absence this year, implementation of student representation \slid according to James Underwood, recently named for a promotion to associate professor of political science. Choose Representatives The junior and senior classes held elections last Tuesday t0 select representatives. Neal Gordon and Mike Martel were elected. In addition, Abby Stillman attended the. department as a representative of the coalition of students who opposed comprehensive examinations. Martin Uchterman, acting chairman of the political science department, characterized the meeting by saying, \We had a very good talk about the system (of comprehensive exams). Everyone was quite honest and frank.\ Discussing the new format for c0rnps in the political science department, Dean Lichterman said, \I think a guy is much less likely to panic with something of this sort ... The pressure of time and place is desireable in some circumstances,\ but not at comps. \We're not out to get students,\ Lichterman said. \The purpose of the ( compreh.ensive) exams is to fmd out what people do know, not what they do not know.\ Doctoral Program In :Engineering And Behavioral Studies Proposed The Graduate Studies Committee sent a proposal for a prog:ram of studies in administrative and engineering systems leading to the degree of Ph.D. to the Curricular Affairs Committee last Wednesday. The proposed program would be multidisciplinary and interdepartmental with the goal of developing research in social-physical systems, of presenting courses which develop systems concepts derived from math,. engineering, and the social sciences, and· to provide case-work studies derived from industrial and governmental expedences. The program is designed for mature graduate students. A pool of students will be found in the present Masters' degree programs in I.A. ellgineering, and math. There are presently over 500 part-time and 25 full-time graduate students enrolled in these programs. Some of these students will be able to get leaves of absence from their employers, primarily GE, IBM, and the State of New York. They average 30 years of age and are close to the managerial level in their work. According to the proposal, their maturity \might well serve as an unusually-effective example to the younger students of the programs.\ Financial support for the program is anticipated from foundations, industry and various government departments. Review: Browning Poetry \Mesmerizing\ By PAUL ANDREWS Dr. Richard Hudson in an excellent lecture and reading last night left little doubt in the minds of his audience that Robert Browning's poetry easily lends itself to dramatic interpretation. Two Get Full Professorships Hudson, who has a strong acting background in both theater and films, noted that Browning wrote with \the essence of the theatrical art of the gypsy fortune-teller as he mesmerizes his a.uciience into a willing suspension of'disb elief.\ In his lecture Hudson gave a brief biographical sketch of Browning as having a .. dark, perverse gypsy strain\ characterized by the \'inability of his reason t() stay afloat in a sea of passion.\ 10 Faculty Pronwtions Anrwunced Ten members of the Union College faculty have been advanced in rank, including two to full professor, Dr. Harold C. Martin, ann<Junced. Promoted were A. Van Vranken Des Forges, from associate to full professor of civil engineering; Dr. Raymond Eisenstadt, from associate to full professor of mechanical engineering; Dt. Frank M. Calabria, from assistant to associate professor of psychology; and Miss Ruth Anne Evans, from assistant to associate professor of history. Also, Dr. Frank Gado, from assistant to associate professor of English; Or. John R. Shanebrook, from assistant to associate professor of mechsnical engineering; Dr. Twitty J. Styles, from assistant to associate professor of biological sciences; Dr. James E. Underwood, from assistant to associate professor of political science; Henry W. Behrens, from instructor to assistant professor of economics; .and Mrs. Eiko Tomiyasu, to the rank of instructor, on a halftime basis. Prof. Des Forges joined the Union faculty in 1954 as an instructor, and two years later was promoted to assistant professor. In 1964 he was named an associate professor. A 1928 graduate of Cornell, he took an M. Mgt. E. at R.P.I. in 1962. Prof. Eisenstadt came to Union as an assistant professor in 1954. He was promoted to associate professor in 1958. 'A 1941 graduate of CCNY, he took his doctorate at Columbia University in 1953. Prof. Calabria carne to Union in 1966 as an assistant professor. He is a 1951 graduate of CCNY. He took his doctorate at New York University in 1956. Miss Evans, who serves as assistant librarian of Schaffer Library and coordinator of the library's Inter-Library Cooperation, joined the Union faculty in 1952. She is a graduate of Smith College and took an additional B.S. at Colu.mbia in 1948. Prof. Gado carne tQ Union in 1963 as an instructor and was promoted to assistant professor in 1967. A 1968 graduate of Dartmouth, he took his doctorate at Duke in 1968, He spent the 1966-67 academic year as a Fulbright lecturer at Uppsala University, Sweden. Prof. Shanebrook joined the Union faculty in 1965 as an assistant professor. Prior to that he was an instr~ctor at Syracuse lf niversity, where he was graduated in 1960 and took his doctorate in 1965 . Prof. Styles came to Union in 1965 as an assistant professor. He is a 1948 graduate of Virginia Union, and he took his doctorate at New York University in 1963. Prof. Underwood came to Union irt 1963 as an instructor. A 1959 graduate of Franklin and Marshall, he took his doctorate at Syracuse in 1968. In 1966-67, he was one of 15 Congressional Fellows selected by the American Political Science Association. Behrens joined the Union faculty this past fall as an instructor. Mrs. Tomiyasu, an assistant cataloguer at Schaffer Library, carne to Union in 1962. Although Browning wrote three plays which were \flops Hudson said his art primarily was dramatic. Hudson blamed Browning's theatrical failures on a \particularly sterile period iil the English theatre\ and a stormy working relationship with his actor friend, W. C. Macready. Hudson's lecture included dramatic readings of ••Porphyria's Lover,\ \My Last Duchess,\ and \Two in the Campagna.\ He climaxed his lecture with a superb reading of one of Browning's most famous works, \The Bishop Orders His Tomb at Saint Praxed's Church.\ Hudson's lecture suffered only from an embarrassingly-small audience composed largely of Union faculty. An extensive. knowledge of Browning was not requisite to an appreciation of Hudson's reading, and Hudson 1 s skillful acting could have been enjoyed by anyone. Notably missing in the audience were any Mountebanks, who could have appreciated Hudson's talents as a dramatic reader and interpreter. But then again, Robert Browning did not write in the absurd.

PAGE2 Comps: Mini-Crisis AH of the various elements of the College community have acted with admirable restraint in the recent mini-crisis concerning comprehensive examinations. The steam was taken out of the student movement by the willingness of the Political Science department to consider a revision of its comps re-quirements a:fter listening to the grievances of the political science majors. Whatevev the educational value of the ·revised comprehensive policy of the Political Science department (and altha ugh it was formulated at one lengthy meeting, it seems workable, reasonable, and sound to us) :that deprutment's willingness to deal with the substantive issues of .its majors averted potentially dan,gerous polarization of interests on campus. It seems unlikely that a disruption of major proportions would have resu'lted, but we are very pleased that the members of :the Political Science faculty took the initiative to insure that there was na ugly incident here. The ~aculty of Division I (Humanities) deserve praise for their similarly reasonable action yesterday, But we feel that no atmosphere of precipitous activity in curricular matters would have developed if the Faculty Councilluid not changed the final examination policy for seniors taking comps after the spring term had already begun. Whatever the motives of the Faculty Council majority that supported this legislation, the seniors and the rest of the students got the impression that the fac«lty's representatives were not being very considerate of Union students. .Comps ought not to represent such a spring term distraction that a senior cannot complete his spring term coutse requirements. For that reason, we agree with the substance of the Faculty Council move. But this change should not have been implemented this spring. We see that move as leading to the student movement against comps. If the students' gripes against comps were to have any real moment, they ought to have surfaced long before the comps beg;an. The motivation for the recent movement seemed tr11nsparent to many -- a pre-examination panic. But the students' actions in our view were dependent on those of the faculty, particularly the decision to make seniors take some finals that they had not planned on taking. Althoug;h we are sl:lre that the Faculty Council considered this change with care, it appeared to the students that that Faculty was being inconsiderate of them. With all of the unhappiness and violence at American colleges of every condition we would think that the Union faculty would be a little more conscious of the appearance of their actions. The medium is the message in camplls politics too, it seems, and our Faculty Council was caught before the TV cameras with a five o'clock shadow and a w·hite-on-white shirt. But we think our faculty can learn of th.eir miscalculation in less than eight years. Art For Art's Sake Arts Festival '69, scheduled for April 30 through May 12, promises to be twelve of the most exciting and stimulatin.g days Union has seen in many a year. We are particularly pleased that students have been responsible for most of the organizing and we feel credit is due Dan Mead,. chairma.Ii of the event for the second consecutive year, as well as to the Department of the Arts for its cooperation. Last year four colleges participated; this year twice that many have been included. Last year the event was of a weekend's duration; this year it has quadrupled in length, and from a study of the calendar of events we glean vast improvsments in the quality of the talent, films, speakers and. exhiliitions. A full calendar of events will be published in Concordiensis next Tuesday. We hope student cooperation and participation will continue so that Arts Festival '69 will set a standard that will be difficult to duplicate. \Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.\ l'~o~bl.uh.~d 'l\ue adoy end Fr~d•Y dur• In• the ac-hool ye•r by the S1uclent Body or UnionColle,e, Scheneclady. H. Y, N'ol,on•l Adv,.rnuns \Repro• le-nlatlve: N•llonal EducotiOna.l Aclve-ru••na Serv•ce. Inc., Colh&e l'~o~bl.uh~r~> Repreaentatt•·e, J60 Le••naton AYenue, N, v. c. Ed•t·oual Ofhce. Old Gym, Un1on Coll\ll\· Publlca11on Olhce, Whu<e• hurst Pr~nnna & B•nd•nll Co., Inc .. 416·418 Fl'fth Ave., '!\roy. 235·4450. Entered in l!ir Schenectady Post OHtcr as Srcond Ciao a Ma1l Matter, Subscnpt1on 20, a copy; $6 \ year dellvrred •nywher~ 1n the Un1ted State•. NEILS. KRAMER Editor-in-Chief WILHAM OUZER Mana.ging Editor . CARL GO LDSAND Business Manager APRIL 25~ 1969 LETTERS TO THE :EDITOR Red Bricks, PLEASE To the Editor: We strongly oppose the Buildings and GrG>unds Committee of the Board .of Trustees' plan to paint the Social S~iences and Humanities Buildings gray. The present color of the buildings adds life and beauty to our campus. We have noticed that during the winter months the many gray and brown buil.dings provide a somewhat drab and pri sun-like atmosphere. The red brick of the Social Sciences and Humanities Buildings, as well as Davidson and Fox Houses, helps to alleviate this problem to an extent. The elimination .of this sort of relief from drabness would be a grave mistake. At the same time as we protest this change, we strongly urge the Buildings and Grounds Committee to provide the campus with more life by giving the new Science Center an exterior of red brick. ·This diversity of color would be a welcome departure from the Committee's stated policy of retaining the present drap decor. Sincerely, Philip E. Galdston, '72 Louis L. Liebhaber, '72 Football: For What? To the Editor: As a dedicated campus; militant who wishes he could fmd the time between trips t() the library to study to start a. SDS chapter here at Union, I feel the time has come to get our football team kicked off campus. Let's look at the facts: football players contribute nothing to the intellectual spirit of the college; indeed, their blind obedience to the plays the quaterback calls is in direct opposition to the free-thinking a college is supposed to f<Jster. Worse still, the school gives.tacit approval of ·these activities by supplying facilities gratis. The players hurt each other, wll.ich is wrong. We don't have a f~ncing team, so why should we bave a football' tem? The player~ and coaches are not under the jurisdiction of the school, but are subjects of the insidious AAU. And, fmally (and this is the main reason) I d~> not happen to 'like football. This school will !Jtave a much freer atmosphere once we tell all these damn straight-arrow botball players that they can't play football anymore. It will make them better lluman beings in the end ·· people who are free to do whatever they Wi\fit. A.s lc:mg as rm in favor of what they're doing. Oh yeah, I think .we oughta kick ROTC off campus , too . Jeez, they even get .gra<les for what theydo. fmmation. The idea of student participation in academic decision\making is fundamental to the creation of a healthy relationship between teachers and students as \partners in education.\ We woul'd hope that this idea will :be implemented in every department at Union, and in every other phase of decision-making at this college. Toward creating this \partnership in education\ a meeting of the Political Science Department was held on Wednesday. Among other issues, we questioned the premises which underlie c~mprehensive examinations and asked that the members of the faculty revise the examination so as to make it a more meaningful learning instrument. After a long discussion, a general agreement was reached: the comprehensive examination of the department was substantially reformed and was understood by all of us to now better serve the function of Ray Krise, Jr. requiring an integration to the Poli Sci Reps To the Editor: This is an era of confrontation at colleges. across the United States and abroad. There has been a seemingly endless polarization of campus populations into hostile groupings of students, faculty and administrators. It seems that \reason\ has deserted tile very institutions which so passionately pursue that elusive quality. Th.e purpose '()[ this letter is to express our g:ratitude to the Department of Political Science for its novel approach to student-faculty relations. We speak as the elected student representatives in the Political Science Department. This representation, in itself, demonstrates the good faith of that group of professors, for student opinions sh()uld be incorporated into policy discipline, which is its stated purpose. It is still our contention that the functions which the comps fulfill can be realized by other means. Further, we strongly oppose the idea that a satisfactory completion of this examination should be a requirement for graduation from the College. The Department of Political Science has agreed to create a committee (which would include students) to study these questions next year. We believe major requirements themselves, along with many other facets of the process of college education, as we now know it, must be carefully scrutinized. \Revolutionary\ as these ideas may be, the faculty of the Political Science Department is willing to seriously evaluate our position, and to interact in a mutually beneficial fashion. The students felt they had a legitimate complaint when it could be said that th.ese compreh:ensives served no edacational function. By sitting 1/!J at a table and talking this problem over with the student, recognizing the reasonableness (}> of our position and then modifying the structure of the comps, the department has acted Ill> wisely and in good faith. The pJJofessors have demonstrated that when presented r~asonable '') argaments they are willing to respons reasonably. !fhis example should sercve as \' a model for relations among members of the Union conimunity. We would hope that 8 l:loth students and faculty can learn from this recent tlXperience, and we would here Cii like to publicly express. our appreciation of the decision to tre~tt students as adult, rational: '* be.ings. Hopefully, someday it will be unnecessary to draw attention to such an action ll· because it will be the expected pattern of behavior. We are proud to be partners in a IJ: movement in this new direction. Neal J. Gordon Abby Stillman ., Kappa Alpha Invites·· Union Students I) and Their Guests for Band and Beer at the KA Loqge Saturday, Noon to 4 p.m. ,, Arts Festival To Begin Wednesday Arts Festival 1969 will begin Wednesday with a Sir Tyronnoe Guthrie production of \Lamp At Midnight.\ The festival will continue through May 12 and will include not only art exhibitions and fJ.lm workshops, bqt also a Glee Club concert, a piano-flute recital, poetry reading, ftlm happenings, a \mixed media polysensual educational experience\ and a -host of other forms of entertainment. By BRUCE H. HUSTEN \Impressionism\ by George Heard Hamilton, artist and director of the Clarke Munson Museum; a lecture on \'The Arts I - and Human Environment\ by John McHale; Mountebanks productions of plays by Eugene O'Neil and Jean Anouilh; a Glee C 1 u b G a 1 a featuring Metropolitan Opera soloist Theodor Uppman; a night of f:tlm and songs by John Cohen· and The New Lost City Ramblers; and a recital and workshop featuring Doriot Anthony Dwyer, flautist for th.(l Boston Symphony Orchestra. \Experience\ Set the Department of the Arts for th.eir cooperation in bringing talent to the college for the ~ fe.stiv::~l as well as for their help in organization. Participants in the Al:ts tJl Festival from other colleges will be acconlp10dated in North College, Mead said, particularly for the weekend of May 9 ~ through ll during which the main events of tne festival will be presented. Arts Festival '69 is beitlg sponsored by the Department of {· Pt ( pr at di .1T1 m gc ar di p~ ( cc be (p w. ( cc ta ))< ol th is: ~ p< fe et t ri: s. y ' s1 dl n: \ I• Cl !a' ( .a n s L S• {I il A ~ c s· a a t a t il (1 l' 0 I t's il I J ( ~ I r ( l v I d I 1 I f ( l ( l' 1 Chairman of the Festival, which is. expected to surpass the fust Arts Weekend held last year, is Daniel Mead '69, and co·ordinating co-chairmen a:re Peter Crawford '71 and Sandy Swope '69. Of general interest will be a \Mixed Media Polysensual Experience\ scheduled for Ma,y 10 and featuring Ryan Drum, a professor at the University of Massachusetts. the Arts and various student orga:nizations including the 111 · ~ < See 'Concordy' Tuesday A full page will be devoted to the Arts Festival in next Tuesday's Concordiensis and w:ill include a detailed calendar of events as well as photographs and news articles devoted 1o previews of specific events. Invitations to participate in the festiVal as well as to attend. it have been extended to Vassar, Skidmore, Russell Sage, RPI, Albany State, Benningt()n, Williams, Hamilton and Kirkland Colleges. Included in the claendar of events are a lecture on Arts Festival Chair17lan Time TG MARRY-ME -- Spring catches a young mart's fancy · Buy your Wedding Ring at Maurice Graubart & Sons Jewelers, Hi6 Jay St. Serving Union for 3 ge:~~erations, Mead expressed particular thanks to Professors Erskintl, Bittleman,. Curtis and Wilson of Down to LoUIs', l~t us go, Let the lag.er freely f/.ow. Inter-Fraternity Council, Film Haps a.nd the Moving Finger. Cl:iff Safane '69 is in charge IB of music for the festival and Richard Sloan '70 is in charge of films. 1/J A unique place to dine with olcl European Atmosphere ·NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. NOW IN OUR llltl1 YEAR For reservations phone FR 4-8917 t Ill, '

PRIL 25~ 1969 •<J; that these served no tion. By sitting 1/11 d talking this the student, reasonableness q, and then of the has acted <a> faith. The demonstrated reasonable ,,, are willing to should sercve as \' among the Union would hope that 8 faculty can this recent we would here 01 ly express. our the decision to adult, rational ll lly, someday it essary to draw an action ll· be the expected We are partners in a IJI new direction. Neal J. Gordon Abby Stillman \ Alpha Guests Beer Loqge 4 p.m. 0· IJ of the Arts for in bringing I} . college for the as for their help in the Alts ., other colleges will in North said, particularly of May 9 1JJ during which the tfie festival will '69 is being the Department of various student III including the Council, Film Finger. '69 is in charge tJ the festival and '70 is in charge of 1/1 Atmosphere (h Erie Blvd. PAGE3 :Sorensen Says Participation, Issues., Concern C'haract·erize-New Politics f· Theodore Sorensen, former presidential assistant, appeared at a press conference and a panel discussion at Union CoUege 1 Tuesday a£ternoon and criticized nearly, every aspect of American government without offering any significant alternatives. ·~·Sorensen made the distinction, however, between patriots who criticille their ( country b~t still believe it's the best in the world and those (particularly the draft evaders) who choose to abandon their 1 country altoghether. In a brief speech before taking questions from the floor , Sorensen said the ''new politics\ of today can be characterized by three key words: participation, issues: and concern. ~ \The days are gone when all political d:ecisions are made by, a few people at the top,'' he said. \People .are concerned today ~ and vote according to the issues,\ he continued. ''It's not enough to be a member of the , right party any more. ''What will happen,\ Sorensen pondered, \if today's youth, with the onrushing c stream of technology and development, came into the eld narrow channels of yesterday? We've got to change the country, r. change the system if we're to !avert violance.\ • In response to a question t .about the possibility of his running for the U.S. Senate, Sorensen quipped, \I know of an outstanding Senatorial L By BRUCE HUSTEN candidate from New York State who is well qualified based on his experience in Washington, D.C. But until he has the ,guts to annom1ce his candidacy, I'm not going to announce his name.\ Sorensen is opposed to President Nixon's antiballistic missile system. \It hasn't yet been demonstrated to the best scientific minds we have.\ Sorensen c0mmented, \that the ABM system would have the capability of intercepting missiles, especially if they were accompanied by decoy devices. \If we build it, we're only encouraging the enemy to build 10 times as many ·offensive weapons. The ABM contributes zero to our ability. What it does contribute to is the arms race, $50 millie n which we desperately need to improve our cities, our educational system and the quality of our lives.\ Sorensen doesn't like the electoral college system but he is also opposed to having one nationwide primary which, he j0ked, w0uld \allow Hollywood types like the acting governor of California to come out on top.\ During a press cenference prior to the panel discussion Sorensen presented his views on a number of subjects. On the race for New York City mayor: Sorensen has made no commitments yet and believes there may be more candidates for the position. He commented, however, that \Undsay stands a good chance for re-election,\ On the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy: \He could have made it at the Democ:~atic convention. The steam was 0ut <!>f Humphrey's effort; the ceiling was on McCarthy's attempt and there was no real prospect for M.cGovern. Only, Kennedy's campaign had momentum.\ On the trial of Sirhan B. Sirhan, convicted assassin of Sen. Kennedy: No comment. On military :~econnaissance missions: \I thought Nixon ~ght have applied the lessons we learned ffom the Pueblo. Reconnaissance missions in 'hostile territory should net be undertaken unless they are absolutely necessaxy.\ On Lyndon B. Johnson: \It will be difficult for history to render a decision on him. Domestically he accomplished more than many other presidents bu.t in Vietnam he made the mistake of escalating beyond reasonable proportions.\ On how to withdraw troops from Vietnam and on how to react to future commitments: \To the ftrst question, quickly. To the second question, carefully.\ On why he is a Democrat; \'If you look at how the bulk of Democrats vote on the bulk of issues compared with how the bulk of Republicans vote on the bulk of issues, you'll see that the Democr.ats are more concerned with the welfare of the people.\ American Petitions For Standby Plan American Airlines has flled a petition with the Civil Aeronautics Board urging continuation ef student standby airlines fares_ The petition was flled in answer to a recommendation to the board by a CAB examiner that half fares be discontinued for bein.g \unjustly d,iscrimina.tory.\ The recommendation resulted from complaints against youth fares initiated by Trailways Transcontinental Bus System, Inc. Spokesmen for American Airlines, which originated the half-fare policy in 1966, said that in a year's time ending June 30, 1968, more than five million youths saved about $112 million on half-fares. .. Conference To Examine Militarization A national conference of scholars will examine the {I increasing militarization of American society in Washington May 1-3. The conference, comprising faculty and graduate < students as participants, will attempt to mobilize serious academic opinion in the social t and behavioral sciences against the ABM and the growing influence of the military. Called ABM/CHOICE: A (• National Academic Conference on ABM and the Choice Between a Military and a Sane ·~Society,\ the meetings will include major addresses by Dr. Robert J. Lifton, Professor Hans J. Morgenthau and Dr. George < Wald, winner of the 1968 Nobel Prize in physiology and medicine. Lifton, who teaches at Yale 1 University Medical Schoel, is winner of the 1 969 National Book Award in the sciences for ~,.his Death in Life: Survivors of Hiroshima. Morgenthau, a leading critic of American policies in Vietnam, is Professor ~ of Political Science at the University of Chicago and the City University of New York. <. Wald teaches at Harvard University. Intransigence The purpose of the ~ conference according to the sixty-eight prominent academicians signing the call for the meeting is \to focus the 'b attention of universities, Congress and the nation on the consequences of our t- government's ABM decision, its intransigence in Vietnam, and the increasing militarization of our _ society.\ In order to t em phas1ze the human and institutional consequences of policy choices, participation is @ being sought especially from social and behavioral scientists who plan to add their voice to the growing ABM opp0sition tt> and to the larger national debate on alternative domestic and foreign policies. '• ~?.days of pleqaiY.., sessions and workshops will consider such topics as the economic impact of militarization, how to redistribute military wealth, the constitutional struggle between the congress and the Pentagon, the delusional qualities of strategic thinking, dehumanization in a militarized society and the role of the academic disciplines as captives of the military establishment. \Lob hying\ On Thursday, May 1, members of ABM/CHOICE plan lobbying activities both individually and in concert with other professional groups planning to be in Washington at that time. The fmal day of the conference is structured to permit discussion and planning of continuing activities by concerned scholars. Preparations for the meetings in behalf of the convening committee are being made by SANE: A Citizens' Organization For A Sane World. Registration information may be obtained from SANE at 381 Park Avenue South, New York 10016. Dahl and Easton Among the convenors of ABM/CHOICE are Gabriel Almond, Center for Advanced Study in Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University; Richard Barnet, Institute for Policy Studies; Robert S. Benson, The Urban Coalition, Washington, D.C.; Peter Blau, University of Chicago; Robert Browne, Fairleigh Dickinson University; Noam Chomsky, Massachusetts Phone 372·0528 PARK PIZZERIA Italian Grinclers Our Specialty Behind Davidson Hall- One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. Institute of Technology; Frank Collins, Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute; Robert Dahl, Yale University; Karl W. Deutsch, Harvard University; Douglas Dowd, Cornell University; David Easton, University of Chicago; Erik Erikson, Harvard University; Arnitai Etzioni, Columbia University; Richard Falk, Princeton University; Otto Feinstein, Wayne State University; Richard Flacks, University of Chicago; Jerome Frank, Johns Hopkins University; Robert Heilbroner, New School for Social Research; Irving Horowitz, Washington University (St. Louis); H. Stuart Hughes, Harvard University and Marvin Kalkstein,. State University of New York at Stony Brook , BLI:JHER - Graduation announcements for seniors are available in the Student Activities office. Concordiensis needs a new distribution manager. Anyone interested should contact Carl Goldsand at 346-3954. A generous ex.pense allotment is allowed. Applications for Financial Aid are due May 1 in R.G. Bingham's office. Applications for Gatesmen are now ava.nable in the Admissions office. All interested Freshmen ilnd Sophomores are invited to a.pply. Freshmen will be given preference. Applications are due Friday, Mayl. Motorcycle Insurance 1\tiONACOAGENCY,INC. FS-1 Same Day 30 N. Erie Blvd, Tel. 393-3646 The Sixth Street Theatre will perform on Saturday, May 3rd, of Parent's Weekend, outdoors in the afternoon. In the evening they will appear at Old Chapel, in a play entitled \The Student Life\. Mass will be celebrated in Silliman Hall this week at 1 :00 PM rather than at its usual time of7:00PM. Eldridge Cleaver's SOULONICE ... \ A DELiA BOOK I $195 ~ Dell Publishing Co,, Inc. APRIL 25, 1969 ···~ Lipman Returns To North End John Lipman, folk guitarist, will make his fourth appearance of the year at Union when he performs beginning at 9:30 t a night in the North End Coffeehouse, Bronner House, North College. Lipman, who performed Winter Weekend for the Davidson Entertainment Committee, will be making his third l\ppearance at the campus coffeehouse. A favorite on campus, he played to capacity audiences at both his previous North End performances. Lipman performs a variety of compositions ranging from ragtime such as ''feel- Like -I'm -Fix. in ·to-Die Rag\ to pure folk s0ngs in the Pete Seeger idiom. Lipman is a particularly skillful guitar player who can deftly handle Doc Watson picking and perform difficult instrumental pieces. liprnan has perfnmed in coffeehouses throughout the Northeast, including .the Cafe Lena in Saratoga. His Spring Weekend performance at the North End will mark his third big weekend perfofll1ance at Union this year, a fact which attests to his enduring popularity on campus. The li:n.e:n.-look in -tropical colorings. A colorful sport jacket in a polyester and rayon blend. Its fabric looks like linen but is impervious to wrinkles. Tailored in Deansgate•s own understated natui·al shoulder ,J construction. SC>ft tropical colorings. $50. \··.... Deansgate® ......... \'•· Doll's Men's Shop 1599 UPPER UNION STREET

Concordy Sports 'I> PAGE 4 Trackmen Fall To New Paltz; Travel To :St. Lawrence ,Sat. The Garnet track team continues to .flounder, although its margin of defeat is narrowing. The cindermen dropped their thircl meet in as many .starts Wednesday, coming out on the short end of a 78-66 decision to New Paltz. Both the varsity and their 1.1ndefeated frosh conterparts travel to Canton, New York tomorrow to face St. :uwrence. The Dutchmen have h eaten the Larries in the two !porevious eacounters between the :ltartiers_ Postponed fn>m Tuesday ~ecause of rain, Wednesday's ooeet represented the varsity clebut of track at New Paltz. The SlJNYers had been building harrier squads on the club and j11nior varsity level until this (photo by Charles Long) Senior weight man George Gu~ner throwing the discus against Trinity last week. In Wednesday's !Bleet. ~gainst New Paltz, Gardner chalked 11.p four points in the lofliog effort, winning the shot and taking thil'd behind Ed Blechner irl tJi.e discus. . ' _.../; I*Ql )biii.•:, \ ' season, a.nd were able to nip the ~utchrnen, despite s0me fine performances by the hosts. Winners for Union were George Gardner in the shot, with a toss of44' 7 3/4\; Ed Blechner in the discus, at 124' 5\; Terry McMantLs in the 880 (2:09.9)~ Pete Ericson in the 440 (53.2); Joe BlLrgess · in the two-mil'e (l'0:35.5); Dave Keuther in the pie vault. The Garnet 440 relay emerged victorious with a time of 47;0 over the rain-slowed track. Art Riccio took a third in the HJO, while Ericson also fmishetl second in the 220. Jolm Braham ended tLp second in both the 880 and the mile. Mario Fischetti took second in the 440 hurdles and third in the 120 high hurdles. Paul Elliot finished in second spot in the latter event. McManus also took third in the triple jump, while Bill Bush landed second in the high jump. Blechner took second in the shot, while Gardner scored .a third place in the discus. After the St. Lawrence encounter tomonow, the harriers will prepare to fac:e arch-rival RPI at Troy 0n Wednesday. A week from tomorrow, the cindermen will face Hamilton College at Clinton. Rains Smash Base·ball S:late Ram has played havoc with tile Garnet baseball schedule. Although the season is officially ten days old, the batsmen have played only irve innings. The April 16 contest against Middlebury was halted after five when the heavens opened up. Uni()n won, L-0_ Since then, the April 19 game with Stevens was rained out, as. was the Kings Point contest, originally scheduled for last Tuesday. After being postponed to Wednesday and yesterday by rain, the game lud- to be scrapped because the Gar11et are scheduled at Williams today. That one is in doubt, too, because of wet: grounds. APRIL 25, 1969 Lax Evea Wi1h Hamilton Win ~J With a th.:t:ee-goal burst .irrthe first two and one:J'lalf minutes of t:J.e second )le:tiod . and a fo-ur-goal rampag~ early in the tmiFd quarter:, the Gamet la_c,ros.se team crush~d the H:amilton stickrn~n at Clinton W'ednesday. The Garnet upped tl'teir season marl< to 3-3. S>liowing: marked improvement in team play over a s:smtty perf<Jrmance last vr:eekend agains1 Clarkson and s~t. ;Lawrence, fhe Dutchmen ,p11lled ahead v.ritll their fust scoring splurge 'and never were !Leaded. Don Hoover opened the ·sc;;oring for the winners, tallying aiter 3 :3 5 of 1he·.opening stanza, ;bout the Continentals ·kn()tted the sc:ore eleven ntin11tes later, and a.t the quarter it was 1-1. Doug Duval, with an assist from Bruce Westby, scored with ·only 15 seconds. gone in the s:.econd stanza to give the Dutchmen a lead. they never r-elinquished. BIIl.ce Dugan, with essists from MiRe Chater, made .the score 3-1 alout two minutes Later. Seven seconds later, Jim Sabella, on a feed from Westby, wpped the c0un1: to 4-1. After flve munutes of the second sta.nza, Hamilton scored to move \Within two goals, but the half ended with .t:he scoreboard :reading 4-2. Garnet Ic:e Game After almost five scoreless :rrninu t e s opening the third J>eriod, the Gal!ll.et put thegarne tOll ice with four goals in less ihan three minutes. Chater opened the ~ates with an unassisted tally., and followed with another ~n a pass from Duval. Westby then added two unassisted scores to make the Un.ion bul:g.e 8-2- The Continentals als() tallied once in tile period, which ended 8-3 • westby closed out the scoring with another unassisted goal after .almost t~~relve minutes of tne finals stan:zll.. His three goals (photo by George Kapl1111) Ill Deffenseman Kevin Monahan, shown in action against St. lAIV\Wrence Saturday, b.elped lead the Garnet to a ?-3 rout ()f Ham~iLton yesterday.. D-.ttchman goalie Ed Green was called on e>nly 1 seven times all afterne>~n, as the Union defense excelled. · and two assists br()ught his season .scoring totaU<J24 points, alre:aily four more than he tallied all Lasrt season. Ga.rnet goalie Ed Green was The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP called. 11pon for only .seven saves 262 Saratoga Road all afternoon, .as the <lefense of MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER Pup Gould, Kevin M<nahan, and co-captain Don DeMichele At the Sign of the Red Neon Pip& P eriorrmed well. TUES. thru SAT. 10 A.M. to 6 \'·\'· ® also 'lJ.e frosh swing back in to horne: action tomon()W with a THURS. and FRI.i 7 .lo 9 PM co:11t.est against allvays-tough Hooa.rt on Daley Field at 3:00 p.nn. SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 Hovey In Bowl lead Traditional Natural Shoulder Clothing Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447 451 Stole Street Our 61 st Year\' Downtown Schenectady Don H()vey, averaging 205 fer nine games, has taken a commanding four point l!l~d after three weeks of play in the Dutch Classic Singles League_ Hovey, undefeated in Division A_ match play, leads Gary Prevost who has a 54 record and a 1 91i average. Pete Van Lund, aiclecl by a league high single of 268.., holds down third place witll a 54 mark and a 188 avera.ge . Larry Ray holds the Division B lead with a 6-3 slate, while Sann Kriegler in sec()nd place is 6·3 averaging 157. Hovey has surpassed 20() iil six of nine games including a high of 234 in sweeping Jeff South, Tom Benedict, and VU! Lund. Prevost recorded 611 and' 604 in his first two matches to establish his second place position. Van Lund used his 2().8 BOOKS Text - Tech - & Art Drafting Equip. Soc & Comm Stat. UNION BOOK CO. 237-241 STATE ST. 393-2141 ,i: ' !' single to score a 6 28 triple ~gainst John hiVin- 'fhe Bowlin~ Club traveled to Rochester Saturday and finished 17th in a fieJd;()f 30 teamsin the Monroe Colll:1llunity College Tourney at the Bowl-a-roll lanes. ?revost lead tlte Union effort i1 35 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMf BOWliNG LANES - Open 74 Hours Daily - S~ACK BAR ON PREMISES with a 1021 total for six games ._..,. _______________ ...,.. _____ ....., l. l&alWIIIUII&allllllaUIIallllllllllllai--ICll~c:IIIIUIIIIIDWIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIII-III:IDIIII .. IIIII.Illlllti:IDIIIIIHI.IIIMIIIIa:lltiiiiiBI_I_ J> SUMMER J()BS I WE HAVE A. SPECIAL ICIB JUST FOR YOUI • I I I I = National Ageney of Stadent Employment P. 0. Box 52492 Ne1W Orleans, Loulsla1110 70 ISO . Casn D Check 0 Money Order 0 GENI:LEMEN: PLEASE SEt--liD 1969 SUMME!t .J 08 DIRECTORIES CHECKED BELOW_ 0 V'A.CATIO~ RESORT JOBS ··---·--··------·---·-··------------------··--·--------··---· S3.00 Work with students at .~medea's finest Res[)rts. 0 'FOREIGN JOBS -·--------·--···-··---·----·-·---------··--------·--------·---·--·-·-----· Gain valuable experien<es abroad with poy. 0 lCA.REER T RAI~ IN G O~POIRTUNIT IES. ·---·- ---··-·--·--·----·------·---··--·-------· Start your career workin!Q with America's, best companies. 0 SPEC.IAL OFFER -Our lotesi bulletin which contains all three job fie.ld s. plus a speci<il job assignment for you. Please state ir:~ te rest and desired location -------------------- S3.00 S3.00 $4.00 v f an th AJ .th ,,A w L J< •B K M K •) ~r s c a \'s p p ~ s I ce a n a ~ c i f~ e \ ( ll'J:

,., Rt.L 25. 1969· ~) by George Kaplw) Ill ction ag;tinst St. a 9-3 rout ()f called on c)ll]y q · SHOP Road CENTER the Red Neon •Pipe 10 A.M. to 6 P'.M. also FRI.i 7 .lo 9 PM N.Y. ® 399-1630 owl AN·ES BELOW. s S3;00 $3.00 $3.00 $4.00 Founded al Union CQI/ege 18 77 ~----------------------------~------------------------------------------------~~--------------------------------~~--~--~--~~~~-- PRICE TWENTYCENTS VOL 98, NO. 43_ Ph:i Beta l<appa Taps -26 Seni~ors,6Juniors ( The Union Chapter of'JP!d ;Beta Kappa elected 26 seniors,. 6 written out juniors and 2 evening division stud·en..ts last night. Juniors were elected for fhe first time in the modern history of th.e chapter, (according to Neal Allen :~~mesident of the Union Chapter. The .chapter voted to amend its by4aws topenni.ithe election of juniors at its meeting in June, 1968. Phi Beta Kappa. was f0wn ded in 1776 at the College of William and Mary. It is the oldest and most disti~gUiished academic honorary society. The Union College, Alpha of New York, was folltnded in 1817, the .fifth chapter in the nation. It was the ftrst chapter faunded·o ut side of Virginia and New England. Initiation will be later M!X. t ml'l nth. cr (lassof 1969 John C. Ames Cfie:m.Jstry Charles J. Hogan Hisiory David W. Best Phy-sics tEric S. Strauss Psy.CIL.elogy Richard E. Marshall History Gregory S. Aneglia. Eccnnomics Laurance J. Suter Phy.'sic:s 'Lawrence B. Pedowitz Political Science Michael B. Klayman c Nicholas Cava Robert A. Barandes Anthony R. Susko Albert H. Mangold •stuart Rubin Scott M. Siegler Richard Z. Lehv <Michael Levin Donald L. DeMichele .:& Economics Science En~liiih Eco;nomics Mathematics Science Political Science En~lish Hisitoiy Poliiti~eal Science CivU Engineering & Economics .,Abbott L. Stillman Poll tical Science William J. Martone Che mistcy Lawrence R. Spivack History John I. Gerson Chemistry •Bruce L. Westby Spa:nish & History Kenneth D. Goldman Scie:nce Michael J. Solomon Scie:nce Kenneth Kobland AFts ·~ (·Craig~ GE VP (Named for LL.D. SCHENECTADY, N.Y-···-Doaald E. Craig, General Electric Cmrnpany vice ~president and general rnaJla..,ger of the frrm's Large Steam Tttrbime-Generator Division, will be .awarded an honorary cDoctor of Laws d·egree at commencement exercises Ju:ne 14. The Hon. Charles E. Go·odell, U.S. Senator from New York., ?Vill be the tcommencement speaker, With headquarters in 5cilenectady, Craig's division includes (JE's turbine and generator depa.rt ments in ''Schenectady; tile heat transfer products department at South Portland, Me.; and tJle foundry rtdepartment with plants in Schenectady, Elmira, and Ede, Pa. Also, the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory at Niskayuma, wluch is •-engaged in research, development, and application for nuclear pr~pulsion of naval vessels; and the:: machinery ,apparatus operation, whJch procures compone.nts for nuclear rna-val vessels. Other c0mponents \Jlnder Craig's direction are the turbime generator ~arketing .operation, the business planning and developmemt operation, and the finance ope-ra;tion. The Schenectady relation..s operation \reports to Craig and witl1 this responsibHity he is company spokesman for the Schenectady area. , The legal operation CCJirrLpletes the Grganization of the divisiCJin~ A native of Sioux Fallis, S.D., Craig is a 1932 graduate ()[1iouth Dakota tState College with a degree in electrical eng,ineering. Froll11 college he went with the Northem States Power Company on assign,me~ts .In South Class of 1970 Robert W. Ackley Mathematics Roderic R. Greene Chemistry James S. Grisham Physics Edward Valentine Science Paul Farnham Economics David Filman Biology Evening Division Marianne (Mrs. Paul) LeClerc Arts Harald M. Szenes English Poland in nco n fli ct\ SCHENECTADY, N.Y.--·Andrew K. Konopacki, first secretary of the Polish embassy in Washingtlim, D.C., will speak at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow at Old Chapel. Under the sponsorsltip of the International Relations Club, the secretary will discuss \Polish Perceptions of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.\ An economist by education, Konopacki is in charge of tile embassy's press office. A graduate of the College of Sea Trade at Sopot, Poland, with a bachelor's and master's degree, he has also studied at tile University of Warsaw and Stanfo.rd University. He has served as associate editor of two weeklies in Gdansk, \K0trasty\ and \Uwaga\; and as. executive editor of a Warsaw weekly ~'Walka Mlodych.\ He also served as associate editor of the monthly publication of the Polish Institute of Foreign Affairs in Warsaw. Konopacki joined the Polish foreign se.rvice in 1965 and has been in this country since 1966. Rev. J. Metz Rollins, Jr. SCHENECTADY, N.Y., APRIL 29, 1969 Senate Votes Against ROTC; Refmes Conrordy Constitution By STU NESLIN The Student Senate, in a meeting that featured heated discussion, carried motions recommending to ROTC the substitution of current academic courses to replace those in the ROTC program, that professional status be de11ied to ROTC instructors, and that the commission ceremony be removed from graduation. 1n other action, the Senate rejected a p~oposed Constitution for Concordiensis, by a vote of 7 to 18 w /9 abstentions. Debate on ROTC started with a report from Senate officers Rusty Manker, Ed Rundell, and Mark Kessler, on a meeting with President Martin. They said that Martin told them Union has a three year contract with the Air Force. The Senate officers added that Martin said the Board of Trustees has recommended that no present action on ROTC be taken. He also suggested the possibility that ROTC could substitute current academic courses for the ones in its program. Action of ROTC Attacking the power of ROTC, Robert Lange, a junior who has circulated an anti-ROTC circular, said that ROTC was placed here \nationally\, and that Union had little say in what courses of action ROTC took. Thomas Miller, a sophomore enrolled in the ROTC program, countered this claim with the statement that ROTC receives a broad outline from the \Air University\. Miller proposed the initiation of a substitute course and an end to the professorial status of ROTC instructors. The motion carried by a vote of 21 to 14, with 5 abstentions. Another motion, seeking to deny ROTC the use of College facilities, was defeated, 15-24. Miller and Walter Spencer clarified the ownership of Hoadley House. Hoadley House is owned and operated by the Air Force, but the land belongs to the College. A motion to have ROTC activity confined to the environs of Hoadley House was then introduced and defeated, 9-24. Extra-curricular Activity An ammendment to the Lange proposal, proposed by Peter Drotman, went as follows: The ROTC program will be maintained at Union, with the stat us of an extra-curricular activity. No academic ·Credit will be given, and no professorial stattLs will be given to instructors. There will be no more campus cooperation than is normal for any extra·c urricular activity, and student lists will not be provided. The annual parade on Parent's Weekend will not be held, and the commission ceremony will be removed from graduation ceremonies. This motion was carried in a roll call vote, 20-19. There are approximately 140 colleges on ROTC's waiting list according to Miller. ROTC programs are limited, and if the program at Union were cut, one of the colleges on the waiting list would get the program. Peter Drotman said that Union has had some type ofROTC program since the Civil War, and that the present program was instituted after it was asked for through administrative channels. Miller brought up the point that, in the event ROTC is asked to or decides to leave Union's campus, their contract with the College provides that the program shall have at least a year to make provisions for students enrolled in the program who have not finished their four-years here. Black Churchman Speaks Tomorrow from the theological seminary of the The Rev. J. Metz Rollins, Jr., executive director of the National Committee of Negro Churchmen, New York City, will speak at Union on Wednesday, April 30 at 7 p.m. in the Davidson House lounge. He will speak on '•Black Power and White Responsibility.\ The talk is sponsored by David Snider the Coordinator of Religious Activities, The Davidson Entertainme-nt Committee and some ofthe R.A-'s. A native of Newport News, Va., the Rev. Mr. Rollins graduated in 1947 from Johnson C. Smith University, Charlotte, N;C., with an A.B. degree. He received his B.D. degree in 19 50 same institutioa, and was ordained that year by the · Presbytery of Southern Virginia. Following three years as instructor in religious education at the university, he accepted a can by the Board of Church Extension of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., to go to Tallahassee, F I a., a.nd organize a Negro congregation, Trinity Presbyterian Church. In Tallahassee he became a leader of the btis boycott against segregated trans11ortation, serving as treasurer of the Inter-Civic Council behind the movement. In 1958, the Rev. Mr. Rollins left Tallahassee to join the Board of Christian Educati0n of the United Presbyterian Church, becoming a member of a biracial team of \trouble shooters\ in race relations throughout the nation's southeast. Until 1963 he participated in sit-ins, freedom rides and every major civil rights protest during the period. Based in Nashville, Tenn., he served as vice president of the city's Christian Leadership Conference, part of the Southern Christian ·Leadership Conference. In 1963, the Rev. Mr. Rollins came to New York City and was associate director of the Presbyterian Corrunission on Religion and Rae(} until last year, when he began his j o]) leading the National Committee of Negro Churchmen. The Rev. Mr. Rollins is a believer ill Christian non-violence as a means of radical social change. Car Wash Neal Gordon announced that the Black Alliance will hold a car wash this Saturday, from -10 a.m. to 5 p.m. to benefit the forthcoming Black Arts Weekend. The car wash will be held directly in back of Richmond. Cost will be $2 per car, and th.e rain date is Sunday. Neil S. Kramer, editor-in-chief of Concordiensis, presented the Senate a draft of a constitution for Concordiensis, which has been without a formal constitution for over a year. He read a copy of the constitution, and debate ranged on topics of censorship, prerogative of the Senate and the Tax committee, and editor election procedures. Election Disputes The drafted constitution provided for the election of an editor-in-chief by the Senior Board, the managing editor and the business manager. Len Simon disapproved of this and asked why all staff members were not allowed to participate in elections. Kramer said that this procedure had been used in the past, with unsatisfactory results. Kramer explained some of the difficulties in operating a paper such as Concordiensis, which has a Umited staff. He stressed that the paper must be given the right to print what it sees fit and elect its editor as it sees fit. The next meeting of the Student Senate will be held on Monday, May 12. June Balloting Decides Contest For Board Seat Two Union College alumni are vying, in an election among the college's 11,000 alumni, for the position of alumnus trustee to replace Dr. Robert E. Murray, superintendent of schools in Schenectady, who is not eligible for re-election. Ballots to be mailed to all alumni by May 1 contain the name of Philip E. Duchscherer of Kenmore, a partner in an engineering consulting firm, and Dale A. Schneider of Winthrop, Conn., a student at Yale Divinity Sch0ol and pas tor of the Winthrop Baptist Church. Charles A. MaGill, Jr., director of alumni relations and secr.etary of the Alumni Council, notes that alumni will be able to vote by mail or in person on Alumni Day, June 14, between 12 noon and 1 p.m. Results of the election, he said, will be announced later that afternoon. Duchscherer was named the Alumni Council candidate at the group's spring meeting. Schneider is a petition candidate, having secured the required number of alumni signatures for inclusion on the ballot. A I 9 3 9 graduate of {Jnion, Duchscherer in 1967 received the Alumni Council gold medal in recognition of his service to the college. He has assisted in admissions work, class organization, and with the Western New York Union College Alumni Club. He has served as president, vice president, and member-at-large of the Alumni Council. Schneider, a native of Apalachin, is a 1966 graduate of Union. A classics rna jot, he was named to Phl Beta Kappa. Active in his fraternity, he won . three letters in wrestling, was a ~akota, Iowa, and Minnesota. He is a graduate of the Advanced lvlanagement Porgram of Harvard ll,nd' is a licensed r,Professional engine~r. Yvonne Fare, a pleasant sul'}lrise for everyone, joined Smokey, the Miracles, and twQ :Union lads in the Field House for Saturday's Spring Weekend concert. He is a pacifist ,and a member of the Fellowship of Reconciliation. founding member of the Community Action Program, and was chairman of the campus religious council. He studied for a year at National Taiwan University as a Rotary Foundation Fellow.

PAGE2 \Those who make peaceful impossible ma.ke revolution violent revolution :P'Ibhlhtd· Tueodoy end Fr~d·•y dur· ·lrac the oehool ytar by tht Student Be>dy or UnionColl~l•· Scho.noctody. N ... Y. Nauonel Advrrtnang Repr~· ·lenlaUve: Natsonal Educ at 1on·a·1 Advertaaana: Strvic~·. Inc •. Co:lltljl.e · Publnhtr• Repr,.oentotn·e, J60 :Le••nlton Av•nut. N, 'l, C. inevitable.\ Ed•ltouel Olf•c•. Old ·Clym, ·Un1on Colleae. Public anon Qf.flce. Wh1t e· hurot Puntln& & 81nd1n8 Co., Inc .. 4l6·H8 Fifth Ave .. Troy. 235•4450, Entttred 1n thf!' S.:h~nect·•dy Post Ollie·• u Socond Cia .. hli11l Man\'r. Suboer~pt·•on 20'f • copy; 16 1 yeer. d'ehvtred anywhere ·1n. the .l:Jn·&ted Stat~•. NEILS. KRAME:R Editor-in-Chief WILUAM OUZER Managing Editor CARL GO LDSAND Business Manager SENIOR BOARD Paul Andrews, Andrew Crisses, Henry Fein, Bruce Husten, Alan Mell, Peter Weingotd. JUNIOR BOARD Jeff Birn, Lloyd Birns, Jerry Levine, Jody Saslow, Michael Swirsky, John Schosheim, Jon Brunswick. The Near est Enemy The Student Senate's decisions last night regarding ROTC's role at Union 1:eflected the strengths and displayed most of weaknesses of the Senate. The Curricular Affairs Committee of the faculty has chosen to deal with the ROTC question on the grounds of ROTC's relevance and congruence with the educational purposes and program of the College. This line of investigation has led to serious doubts about the fitness of the ROTC curriculum with regard to the rest of the courses here. A majority of the Student Senators took the same point of view and the motions that the majority approved last night impress us as within the realm of the power of the Student Senate, or at least nearly so. But we are frankly quite skeptical of the usefulness of the protest.;against ROTC that Mr. Lange spearheaded. His arguments, which enjoyed a large following in the Senate, are full of the stuff of witch-hunting. Analogies in this regard are hackneyed by now, but we feel that a symbolic attack only serves to weaken the position <'lf those who oppose the war by giving those sympathetic with America's war aims in Southeast Asia a just target for their ridicule and disregard. There is no soft place in the bosom of this paper for the military and the Vietnam War is a criminally insane venture by the United Sates. But a symbolic attack on the war and the military through their representatives here does nat accomplish anything ~- it doesn't accelerate the withdrawal of American troops from Vietnam, it doesn't help to limit the budget of the Defense Department. In October, 1967, several Union students joined over 100,000 demonstrators who marched on the Pentagon. These people did not go to Washington to hear Dr. Spock rail against the war. The thousands that marched on the Pentagon and those who stayed there overnight were stating in the most clearly understood and positive way they knew, their united opposition to the War in Vietnam. Attacking ROTC at Union on moral grounds, as. Mr. Lange does, only obfuscates the issue. Our classmates here are not drilled in baby burning, nor do the majority go directly into combat in Vietnam. There are better targets than ROTC for our outraged friends, but they are less convenient, less accessible, and less docile. r-------------------------------- Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 40 AMF BOWLING LANES APiil'l l 29, 1969 <b Parliam:ent Fe·els Student Powe~r: Irish Coie:d In H:ouse ~of Com:mons London, 22 April: Student power, ill: the shapely form of Miss Bernadette Devlin, 21, a. student at Queens University,. Belfast, has come to the hallowed halls of the Brit:iSll. Parliament in London. Electe<l last week on an independent unity ticket, Miss Dev]T! represents a constituenqy irn Northern Ireland, .commonly called Ulster. She said her election marked \the arrival of the peasant in the halls of the great.\ Leading Figure Miss Devlin is a leading fig\Ure in the Ulster civil ri~ts movement, and her arriva1 hn claim her seat won on.ly a week ago coincided with an emergency debate i11 the Ho us.e of Commons over the pres;e!lt situation of unrest in Ulsier. last weekend, Londonderry, a focus of the civil rights. movement, was wracked 'OY violent clashes between p()lic:e and demonstrators. The Br.itis:h government announced SIO()n after that British tooops would be going to Northern Ireland to help protect public utilities fro111 destruction by demonstrators. Besides being the youn.gest ' worn an ever elected to Parliament, Miss Devlin decided to break tradition a-nd speak in the debate today. Parliamen tafj' tradition requires that new members not speak their ficst day in the House, and when they do speak, only O>n non-controversial issues. Meant Business But soon after the de'b1ate. By RICHARD PATTERSON,JR. LONDON CORRESPONDENT began, Miss Devlin rose to speak. As I listened to her remind the House that \no Englishmen can ever understand an Irishman,\ it became clear that she meant business. She told of the \qppression\ of the ordinary working man, especially Catholics, in this Protestant dominated country. She lashed aut at Prime Minister Harold Wilson, who sat nearby listenin.g, for not taking fum measures to guat•antee civil .rights for all the people of Ulster. . A government which allowed the injustice perpetrated there, was not \worth its guts,\ she said. Then she turned her wrath o.n the opposition party, the Conservatives, for their support for the present government of Northern Ireland, which, she said, maintained itself in power only at the expense of basic democratic rights for 30 per cent of its people (the proportion .of Catholics in Ulster). A Novelty In congratulating her on her speech, one member of Parliament described it as \electrifying and courageous.\ Blood Drive · Phi Delta Theta is sponsoring a campus blood drive on April . · 29th md 30th in conjunction with the American Red Cross. The drive will take place in the gym from 10 a.m. · 4 p.m. on ·. Tuesday the 29th and from 11 a.m. · 5 p.m. on Wednesday the thirtieth. Sign up sheets have been posted in all dormitories and fraternities, and representatives will be in all liV:ing units to answer my questions about donating blood. A keg of beer will be awarded to the living unit with the highest percentage of registered donors. The blood cellected in this drive will be given without charge to patients in hospitals in Northeastern New York. The need for :blood is gteat- 600pints are needed each month in Schenectady County. Without a constaNt supply of blood donors, hospitals would be forced to buy blood and sell it to patients. The price for a pint of blood in areas where there is no volunteer program can be as high as $75. By giving blood here, a donor insures that he and his family will be able to receive blood free from any hospital in the United States. Every person over 18 years old, with no history of hepatitis or malaria is eligible to give blood up to 4 times a year. At a recent blood drive at Skidmore there were 324 registered donors. This is more donors than Union has ever had, but we have set it as our goal for 1969. We need your help. ra Unfortunately, it appeared to me that M.P.'s enjoyed her \maiden speech,\ 'laughed a bit--especially when she said she 0 had urg:ed dem0nstrators recently to use 1heir weapons carefully in clashes with p0lice 111 and \not to waste a stone ill anger\ ·· complimented her graciously and then., as usual with new members, proceededll to ignore her. She was only a novelty, not to be taken seriously. Northern Ireland, which with England; Scotland, and Wales, makes up Britain, m the United@ Kingdom, has been ruled by the Unionist Party (Protestant dominated) fm the last 50 years. Voting rights are granted on the11.1 basis of property holdings, and multiple property holdings entitle one to multiple votes. Catholics face acute housing!) shortages in some areas, and it is alleged that the government refuses. to relieve the shortage 111 because with every house comes a vote. Besides voting and housing discrimina·tion, Catholics face job bias also.\ Lon don derry and Stro bane, predominantly Catholic cities which have been the scenes o~ recent civil rights demonstrations both have unemployment rates of 20-25 percent. These are the type of~ things that civil rights demonstrators in Northern Ireland, and Miss Devlin, now in Parliament, mean to seet corrected. Proposed ;·Constitution A Constitutionfor Conco1·diensis The Student Seruzte refused to accept this constitution for Concordiensis last night by a vote? of 9·18 with 7 abstaining. The Concordiensis is the stulient newspaper at Union College. Ail members of the College commul:lity shall receive it free, providing Jhey have either paid the student activities fee or are members of the facwty ()I staff of the College. Any student may contribute to the Concordiensis, but the final responsibility fo:r tile contents of the paper rests with the Editor-in-Chief. The Editor-in-Chief shllll be elected by a majority vote ()f the Senior Board o:t;the paper, with v-otes also being cast by the m~nll!ging editor and the business manager. The out-going editor shall vote o-nly to break a deadlock. The Senior Board, managing editor, and the business manager shall be appointed by the Editor-m.Chief and shall serve at his pleasure. Writs announcing elections of the .edit.or shall be published in the paper at least four weeks before the e11.d of the then present editor's terlll, Tb.e elections shall be held the might before the last edition of the tc.:m .is published. Only those persons signing the W:rit of election alid no o thers shall be entitled to vote in the subsequent election. Writs of election shall state the length of the term of office th~t the election then at hand will de,cilie. in no case shall that term of ~ffice as editor be less than two trimesters or more than three trimesters. Only one student shall :serve as editor at any one time. All ~lections for editor must reach a decision and multiple ballots, eliminating all but Acme Barber Shop. 509 Union Street- .Experienced Bqr.ber.> the candidates with the two largest totals, shall be taken until there is a ·single editor. Tuesday, April 29 ·· Fllm: \A Man for All Seasons\ S.S. 16, 7:30 p.m., Student-Faculty Bridge, Hale House Faculty Lounge, 7:45p.m. Although the Concordiensis is not an independent organization and is dependent on funds from the student activities fee as well as it depends on the College for services and facilities, there shall be no interference from any of these groups in the conduct of the newspaper. Any member of the College community who wishes to take the Concordiensis to task must do so by pleading to the All College Council that the activities of the newspaper violate the principles of the laws of the State of New York, or the United States Code. Any contention based on this analogy must he heard in the All College Council, and that body, acting in a judicial capacity,. shall hear evidence and arguments from both sides and render a decision. It shall recommend Wednesday, April 30 •· Baseball: Union vs. Hamilton, Alexmder Field, 3:00 p.m. Fr. 'Tennis: Union vs. R.P.I., at home, 3:30p.m.· I.R.C., Old Chapel, 4:30 p.m., Andrew Konopacki, 1st Secretary Polish Embassy American Chemistry Society, S.S. 16, 8:15 p.m., Dr. William H. Atwell, Dow-Corning, \Divalent Silicon Chemistry\ Theatrical Production, MemoFial Chapel, 8:15p.m., \Lamp at Midn~ght\ with Morris ·Carnovsky, dir.-Sir Tyrone Guthrie (Free to College students, faculty, staff.) 'Thursday, May 1 ·- Fihn Haps, S.S. 16, 7:00 and 9·:00 p.m., {75 cents admission), \Marat Sade\ BLITHER action to the Student Senate, which All students interested in shall have the final review of the case running for offices in the and make the fma.l decision to student government may pick up discipline the editor or not. petitions starting Tuesday, April The organizational goals of 29 in the Student Activities Concordiensis are: office. Petitions must have 200 1. To rep<;>rt the news at Union signatures, and must be turned College, in by Monday, May 5 at 4:30 2. To report activities that occur p.m. Elections will be held off campus that will be of interest to Thursday, May 8. members of the College community, All juniors planning to go to ----------------------~@ THE PEANUT STORE Fee:~ turin-g PLANlERS HOT ROASTED PEANlJTS and Nutmeats. from all over the world. e 406 SlATE ST. 3. To provide an organ for the medical school in September expression of opinions of all must regi.ster in the Biology complexions .~o~ffi~tc:::;e~b~y~M:,a:;Y:..:.,:L;._ ___ -=·-==:::::==::::::::===i . .- j' 4. To attempt to establish itself as l A B ~ F t B ~~n~~~:nd~~:h~~~tlc~~onf~~~c~ lfiaurJce. ~~THQ\U,.~ \~yftJ~\\: ,o• ns support of the College or the student ··- ;;:;- :;-:: -- •• body. April28, 1969 .rr..~~~~ .,.. ... • ,.A.,.~.,.. ... • r .... 1 For three Generations.' ., TAKE OUT SERViCE ~ ~ Hot Dogs ·Homburgs ~ fhose ~ Hot Meals· Fish Fries ~ Iii. 111. Who Kn()W ••• • CAV AllERS • Have ,\en ~ ~ ~'ecommending - e Open Monday thru Fridoy e .. 6 A1M, • 1 A;M, ., . Ill. F ridoy and Saturday 1:.. HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER - Open 24 Hours Daily - • 6 A.M. • 4 A.M. • • 1 3 Vnion Graduates in Graubart Family'• 1>.1 U Ill.., Corner Erie Blvd. ~ '\eorest to nion C-1·1 e111e • 166 JAY ST SNACK BAR ON PREMISES ... ::o . & Jefferson St. e . ~-------------------~~----~-o-de_n_ts---~~•~•~=~~~~-~~·;~_F_O_R_._H_o_N_f_s_r_s_E_R_V_IC_•_E_.A_N_D~·-G_o_o_o_JE_W_E_L_R_Y_ API · 01 c ,41 ~· fla Sy pru ·Jy on pr COl ·I • glV ev( dl( hi~ Er: Ch 'Sh: Ea ~tt wi Cc fla <Ja flu .Ph

L 29, 1969 1!1 Ia it appeared to enjoyed her 'laughed a she said she 1 d:eHl.0 nstrator s their weapons with pelice>11 a stone in mplirnented her then, as usual proceededs She was only a to be taken !$ which with and Wales, m the Unitedt) been ruled by the y (Protestant last 50 years. granted on the0 holdings, and operty holdings multiple votes. acute housing 0 areas, and it is the government the shortage~» house comes voting and is crimination, e job bias also.~ and Strabane, Catholic cities een the scenes of® rights ons both have rates of 20-25 e are the type of~ civil rights in Northern Devlin, now in mean to seet S.S. 16, House F acuity vs. Hamilton, B W'ALTER Familyn JEWELRY APRIL 29,1969 PAGE 3 ' ARTS FESTIVAL '69: DILEMMA OF MAN ANO HIS ENVIRONMENT Interview: Profs. Edgar Curtis, Peter Erskine Discuss Role Of Arts In College's Curriculnm ··DORIOT ANTHONY DWYER To per[o,.m May 10 . Solo Ffa;u,tist Will Perfo,rm (Editor's Note: Arts Festival 1 969 begins at 8:15 p.m. .tomorrow with a production of '\Lamp At Midnight\ in Memorial Chapel. The festival will continue through May 11. On this page \Concordiensis\ .wesents a calendar of events and other features related to the festival, including the article IJelow which is the result of an interview between \Concordy\ staffer Bruce H. Husten and Professors Edgar Curtis and Peter Erskine ofthe Department ()j the Arts.) program but feels its structure is \artificial. We spend far too much time on labels,\ he said, \asking whetl:ter somfthing meets the strict Comp. Ed. requirements rather than whether it serves the long-range aims of the program.\ Referring to a kcture scheduled for May 9 by John McHale on \The Arts and Human Environment,\ Prof. Curtis corrunented, \That's all educat·ion is about--how man can help to create an env.ironment in which he can be slightly human!\ Ar:t, in other words, is inseparably intertwined with the dilemma of man and what Curtis calls his \'multi-media environment. \To learn to handle one's environment, .to see things as the living contex:.t of a world of which man is a living, mov:ing part, is to rea.lke a great deal of what the artistic experience is all about,\ ·Curtis continued . At tltis point Peter Erskine, a n instruct or in the Arts Department wh.o walked in on the middle ofthe discussion, left the room and returned with a xeroxed copy .of a letter to the editor in the most recent issue of \Playboy\ magazine. ·'Hn our educational system,\ ~· Doriot Anthony Dwyer, solo flautist with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, will participate in Arts Festival '69 ·Jy leading a discussion May 10 on \The difference between preparing t-raditional and contemporary music\ and by \Thet:e's always so much talk .that we can't do what colleges su~h as Williams do because we h.ave so much science here. But the real pity is that we have the unique potential of treating ~urselves as one college rather than two centers, and the pGtential is wasted.'' Fest iva I Preview s: 'giving a reCital later the same evenifig. Mrs. Dwyer began lessons at Guthrie Play Tomorrow (\.he age of eight. While attending high school she studied with Ernest Liegl, first .flautist of the Chicago Symphony. She was a 'Student of Joseph Mariano at the Eastman School for four years. To Professor Edgar Curtis, chairman of the Department of Arts which is sponsoring Arts Festival '69, the fact that \we have so much science here\ is an advantage that, if put to good use, would allow Union to offer a truly comprehensive education ·in which there would be bridges rather than barriers between the sciences, humanities and social ·sCiences. ••Lamp At Midnight,\ Barrie Stavis' drama about the 17th-century Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei, who 400 years ago charted the heavenly course followed by today's Apollo 8 astronauts, will mark the opening of Arts Festival '69 at 8: 15 p.m. tmmorrow in Memorial Chapel. The drama, hailed by New York critics as \a triumph\ and \a landmark of modern theater,\ will be directed by Sir Tyrone Guthrie and will star Morris Carnovsky. In it, GalileG fears that he may be tortured fer .his views, which are considered heretical by the church. An Inquisition follows and several Cardinals refuse to condemn the scientist. The Pope, to preserve the structure of Papal infallibility, is unable to participate in the condemnation in She has played at CBS's ~tudios in New York and toured with .the Leonid Massine Ballet Company. She has also been solo flautist in the Bach Festival at ·:::armel, Calif., and was second flute player of the Los Angeles .Philharmonic for six. years. Prof. Curtis supports the ;goals of Union's Camp. Ed. the event that truth is on Galileo•s side. A Cakndar Of Events Apri130, Wednesday 8:15 p.m., Memorial Chapel · Play, \lamp at Midnight\ starring M()rris Carnovsky. Directed by Tyrone Guthrie. Admission · $3, Union College faculty, staff and students· free May 1 , Thursday 7 and 9 p.m., Social Science Auditorium (hereafter, SS-016)- Marat/ Sade, Admission· $.75 · May 2, Friday 7:30 p.m., SS-016 -William A. Jaffe Inaugural Lecture with George Heard Hamilton, Artist, Art Historian, and Director of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, Williamstown, Mass. Topic of discussion- \Impressionism.\ Pictures or Paintings?\ -Free 8:30p.m., Nott Memorial· Two Plays: Eugene O'NeiJ•s Hughie, and Jean Anouilh's Cecile or the School for Fathers. General Admission - $1.50, Dates of Union students- $.75, Union students, staff and faculty - free 9 p.m., SS-016 · lngmar Bergman Film, \The Devil's Eye.'' May 3,Saturday 8:30p.m., Nott Memorial- Two Plays (see May 2) 8 p.m., Memorial Chapel- Northeastern New York Student Orchestra Performance (free) 9 p.m., Old Chapel- The 6til. Street Theatre (free) May 4,Sunday 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., SS-016- Czech Film: \The End of August at the Hotel Ozone.' Admission c;~$1;00 }.8:30 p.m., Nott Memorial -'Two Plays (see May 2) May S, Monday 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., SS-016 ·Czech Film (see May 4) May 6, Tuesday 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., SS-016 ·Czech Film (see May 4) 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel- \Glee Club Gala\ featuring Theodore Uppman, Soloist of the Metropolitan Opera. Selected works. May 7, Wednesday . 7 p.m., SS-016- \An Evenillg()f Experimental Films\ free May 8, Thursday 8 p.m., Memorial Chapel- Folk Concert and the Performing Arts (all evening) (free) May 9, Friday 8 p.m., Memorial Chapel -John McHale, Director of the Center for Integrative Studies at the School of Advanced Technology, S.U.N.Y. at Binghamton, Artist, Writer and Sociologist. Lecture and Panel Discussion. Topic: \The Arts and Human Environment\ (free) 8 p.m., SS-016 · Ingmar Bergman Film, \All These Women.\ (free) 10 p.m., Old Chapel· John Cohen and The New Lost City Ramblers, and Mother's Own Good Time Jug Band. (Free) May 10, Saturday II a.m. to 5 p.m., In front of the Library- An afternoon of music and musical groups. (Free) 3 p.m., Memorial Chapel - Workshop with Doriot Anthony Dwyer, solo flautist with the Boston Symphony Orchestra. Topic of discussion - \The difference between preparing traditional and contemporary music.'' Will play any student compositions. (Free) (All woodwinds will be invited to sit on the stage with Doriot Dwyer.) 4 p.m., SS.Q16 ·Phillips M. Simpkin, Sculptor. Discussion, ftlms and slides. (Free) 7 p.m., SS-016 ·Peter Kane Dufault, Poet; poetry reading. (Free) .. 8:30 p.m.,. Memorial Chapel · recital by Doriot Anthony Dwyer. Featured work, Boulez Sonatina · Admission - $2.00, Non-Union students - $1.00, Union College staff, faculty and students -(Free) (see 3 p.m. workshop for further details.) 10 p.m., Old Chapel - Mixed Media Polysensual Experience. (F:ree), Ryan Drum of the University of Massachusetts May ll, Sunday 4 p.m., Memorial Chapel- l'he Union and Williams Brass Choirs.(Free) 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., SS-016 - Film: \Cartouche\ starring Jean-Paul Belmondo and Claudia Cardindale ~admission- $.75 Jaffe Lecture Friday's William Jaffe Inaugural Lecture will be delivered by George Heard Hamilton, cLirector of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, Williamstown, Mass. Topic of the lecture will be • 'Impressionism:: Pictures or Paintings?\ Hamilton is a professor of Art at Williams College and is the author of European Painting and Sculpture, 1880-1940. Glee Club Gala This year the Glee Club has elected to sing its Spring Gala Concert on a week-night, May 6, and to dedicate its concert, in a sense, to the campus from which its members cGme. While there may be some disappointment for parents involved, it is hoped that the choice of mid-week will facilitate students on the campus in planning to attend. The program chosen is broad in content, with a considerable emphasis on somewhat lighter music. The soloist, Theodor Uppman, is one of America's greatest baritones and a real 'star' of the Metropolitan Opera of New York. He will sing a solo group and then join the Club in Stanford's '\Songs of the Sea.\ the letter says, \the arts are treated only at the margin, instead of in the center of the educational programs-- from the nursery on. \A knowledgeable involvement with art should be a must for everyone throughout the entire educational curriculum. With few exceptions in the lower levels, this most important curricular discipline is missing. I do not mean art appreciation bt1t, rather, the disciplines that can reawaken in every individual the lost ability to create and understand form and to use it for his own environment.\ Curtis is all for making a college center out of Carnegie Hall once the new science center is .completed. \There are rooms of all sizes there,\ he said, \that could be used for meeting rooms, art exhibits, concert halls, etc.\ Both Curtis and Erskine strongly support revamping Nott Memorial and using the top floor for audio-visual aid headquarters and the basement for prop rooms for the theater. Asked to comment on the calendar of events for the festival, Curtis quipped, \We've got a new problem at Union. There's going to be too much to do!\ Erskine, however, emphasized that as far as he was concerned, it is \not the turnout that is important, but the effect the festival has on those who do attend. We're not trying to PROF. EDGAR CURTIS \Now there's a new problem ... \ impress anybody,\ he added. Both artists agreed that the presence of females on camp us would have a significant effect on the success of the festival. \A lot of males won't have anything to do with rut,\ Erskine said, \because they're afraid of being called perverts or faggots by the athletes. It's like a challenge to their masculinity. If there were girls here the boys would be able to rationalize their exposure to art and might even find they like it.\ Erskine said he hasn't been at Union long enough to formulate any decisive opinions aboui the role of the Arts on campus. He commented, however, that the student work he has .seen so far has been commendable. Erskine claims the primary function of a teacher is \to f01ce the student to see how ignorant he is\ so that on his own initiative the student will construct \a conceptual base\ on which he can then build. Weil: Mountebanks Plays Not ~Forays Of Absurdity' By HARRIS GINSBERG The theatre is exciting and enchanting; it portrays life and the spontaneity of the m\bment. Therefore, the college's Mountebanks plan to add some of this excitement and enchantment to the Arts Festival, May 2, 3 and 4, at 8:30 p.m. in Nott Memorial Theatre. \Unlike past forays of absurdity,\ commented Henry Well, drama instructor, \the Mountebanks will present Eugene O'Neill's \Hughie a one-act play of American realism, and '\Cecile a romantic French fantasy by Jean Anouilh. According to Well, these plays will be \mo~e exciting than Browning.\ \Hughie a one-act drama of character about a smalltime Broadway con-man, played on Broadway a few seasons ago and will be presented here under the direction of Michael Riley, a senior English major. \Hughie\ is also an experiment in directing; however, it is based on a project of the Drama 23 class. Riley, who plans to attend the Boston University School of Fine and Applied Arts next year, has previously directed \The Firebugs,\ and has portrayed Henry Wirz in •'Andersonville Trial,\ both this season. \Hughie\ and ''Cecile\ are the first of three bills of one-act directing rrojects to be done this spring. \I'm excited by them all,\ commented Well; it looks like a very interesting program.\ Looks to me like a very interesting weekend. Faculty and student art ellhibits (from participating schools) a.nd other events not yet scheduled will take place throllghout the week. MOUNTEBANKS PRODUCTION OF ••ANDERSONVILLE TRIAL\ ':A past foray of absurdity.\ ·,

~--~--~C_·o_nc_o_r~dy~.· ~S~p~o~rt_~s~ ______ : ~AGE 4 APRIL 29, 1969 Varsity, Frosh Score Double Track Win ........... I, ·\ ' f~ _, \*: .... ~-~.~, .... ' ... • \,~. .~ t ~:..' ........ , . · ~.k~ .... ·~~-,:~--;. r, _v . . ~ 't. .....~- ... ~· •• :--· ta:·~r-~,.~~-~.;.~~::_·. A strong Garnet frosh defense, as evidenced above, was a principal factor as the yearling stickman coasted to a 17-2 victory o\Ver Middlebury here Saturday. Photo by Goorge S. Kaplan '72 Lax Dumps Panthers; ·Defense Key in 17-2 Rout A tenacious defense coupled with an explosive offense corubined to lead the Garnet fueshman lacrosse team to a 17-2 rout of Middlebury Saturday in a Spring Weekend contest. Mark Sanderson once again led the frosh, who are now 3-0 for the season, with a four-goal outburst. Other frosh who put the ball in the net were Dave :Block, Norm Stavin, Pete Daily, Ken Rosenthal, Bill Waldron and Barry Gross. A.s the score indicates, the Garnet yearlings were in wmmand from the opening whistle. The high scoring of previous games continued as the Dt1tchmen kept continual pressure on the Panther goalie. Statesman, who defeated the RPl frosh 2I-2 last week, are described by Coach Gary Brown as \'the toughest in the league.\ The rest of the schedule is a little easier. After the Statesmen, the frosh stickrnen will travel to Colgate on May 6. The following ten days will see contests with perennial powers Cortland, Syracuse, and RPI. The varsity swings back into action tomorrow with an away game at Cortland. The Dutchmen, who looked quite good against 1-lamilton last Wednesday, would like nothing better than a win tomorrow to get back into the running, and to move above the .500 mark for the first time this season. I c' 1 r \ \ lc· \ Li 11 11 ~ • 1\ 1 Ill \'lt'hHIL'S ill lillt'L' V:Hsil) t'Vt'lll S :.Jild a ~t't:<liHI-pLifc' ill :1 hHirll·t. ~llld Frush RIL'Il JasJllaL wi.lll piled up 15~z pomts, bl tlll·ir respect·ivc Garnet track squads to victory at St. Lawrence Saturday. The varsity, now 1-3 on the season, won by R3-n2 while the undefeated frosh beat the Larrie yearlings, 8&-53. By HENR'I FEIN .l1liHI l3t:di:IH1 pulk1l doWII. third i11 till' ~~u. wl1ilc Rid1 (\ll·lPL'IW:t~Sl'l- fiHishl'd third il·l !hit l1 fill' 1n ik :nrd I wu IHik ewnts. J.oc l3urgess won the lat tcr with a docking of IO:·l8.9. Paul Elliot and Mario Fischetti finished 1-2 in the 1 20 High Hurdles. The relays were split, with the Larries taking the 440 in 45.0 and the Dutchmen winning the mile with a time of 3:39.6. J ,I ' l L' I a k I l II l' L' a g :1 ill unmi n:lll'J t IlL' fit 1slt r Ulllli 1 1~ L'VL'HI S. lie WI HI Fill' .220 anJ .l.f(), li-1\IK second iH .llic' Hlll, anJ <JIKhorcd both vidorioHs lrosh .-clays. He has averaged tnore t•han thirteen points in each of 'the three frosh meets this spring, :aHd is obviously a prime reason for U1e Garnet yearliHgs' {)Utstanding 3~0 mark, Another frosh star, with his specialty the field. events, is Mike Rich. On Saturday, he took firsts in both the high jump and the javelin. Hntl1 varsity and frnsh plt•t~t. tltrir Winl·lin~ streak\ 1111 the line tomorrow .. as t ht•y travel .tn ·r~PI,i to fact' RI'L As L'VidcncL·d .in t:lw iHiJlllll lr;td~ Sl'aSllll, t•hc• Engineers 'have atH:lthH fine squad, and should give the Garnet quite a tussle. • The squads split up Saturday. The varsity will travel to Clinton to tkac on Hamilton College,ll while the frosh will compete at the Cobleskill Invitational. I) McMannus, as usual, led the varsity by scoring in both track and field events. He took the 880 in 2:03.5, the mile in 4:46.2, and the triple jump with a leap of 39'612''. Terry also pulled down the runHer-up spot in the javelin. Dave Kauther captured third in the pie vault, willie Fischetti wofl second in the long jump be hind Bush. Weight men George Gardner and Ed Blcchner ran up fourteen points between them as Gardner won the shot put with a toss of 44'212'' and took seconal in the discus behind Blechner, who threw 124'6\. Ed also pulled down a third in the shot. Frosh Excel In Sprin·g Play \ Bill Bush won the long jump at 20'5~\ and took second in the I 00. Pete Ericson won the 220 in 23.4 and fmished in the runner-up spot in the 440. Steve Kaufman took third in that event. Nine Trips Ep'hmen,s Neidel Fl'ips 4-'Hitter By BILL HOLLERAN Behind the strong four-hit pitching of Bill Neidel and a solid attack, the Garnet baseball team shut out the Wilfiams nine Friday by the score of 4-0. It was almost a double victory for the Dutchmen, who have been battling the elements since their season opener versus Middlebury nine days ago. The Garnet played only five innings in that game, escaping with a 1-0 decision before the rains came, and since thert have been rained out twice. The Garnet decidedly put pitching and hitting together in Fridays game. Righty Neidel was once again untouchable on the mound allowing only four harmless siagles, and fanning nine, and walking none, in going the distance for the second time. No Willaims baserunner got past second llase. Neidel, incidentally, has an outstanding total of seventeen strikeouts in only fourteen innings of work. The Garnet batsmen also ha.d quite a day, roughlng up Ephmen pitching for nine hits. Jim Wilson, Ken Pearce, and Dale Long led the way for the Union hitters, as Wilson lashed a two-run single, and Pearce went three-for-three,.on two singles and a run-scoring double, wlille Long punched out two base hits. Wilson gave Neidel all the runs he needed in the top of the second, when he laced a hard shot to short, which bounced off the Williams shortstop's glove and rolled down the third base line, scoring two runs. Tom Miller and Bob MacKenzie had reached base ahead of the Garnet right-fielder, Miller on an error and MacKenzie on an infield hit. The Dutchmen added another run in the fifth, when Long singled and scored after Pearce stroked a two-base hit off the left-field wall. The Garnet topped off their scoring in the ninth inning, when pitcher Neidel singled, took second on Long's bunt single, and scored after two passed balls. The Garnet will go after their tltird victory tomorrow afternoon, when they meet the Hamiltoa Continentals on Alexander Field at 2:30. The batsmen will be home for Parent's Weekend, entertaining the Drew University Nine on Saturday. Although the spring season is only half over, both Garnet freshmen teams are undefeated. Although the fsur varsity squads have only a .500 mark, with seven victories in fourteen attempts, the frosh lacrosse and track teams have ran up a fine 6-0 mark to date . Each freshman squad is no:w 3-0 . The stickmen have tfiumphed ·over Stevens, Siena, and Middlebury; while the yearling cinennen overcome Trinity, Rochester and St. Lawrence. t) Until this season, the G!U'net also fielded a frosh tennis team, but the construction of the Science Cente:.'t, destroyed the four older courts, and construction on the .new ones to replace them will not be completed until next season. With limited coudt space, the frosh squad had to be eliminated until 1970. But even with this fine at1ack, not enough can be said for the frosh defenders, who turned in another fine effort. .Starting goalie Bob Erlandson has yet to have a tough game, and is averaging only six saves a contest. Both tallies came against reserve netminder Lou Uebluber, who also made six saves playing parts of the third and fourth stanzas. Netmen ToppedByHobart,6 .. 3 Being with each other, doing things together ..• know- ing that your affection is growing into precious and enduring love. Happily, all these cherished moments O> will be iorever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. ,If the name, Keepsake, is in the ring and on the tag,. you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, e~ and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler will assist you in making your selection_ .. He's in the yellow pages under \Jewelers.\ Rings from $100 to $10,000. ® Illustrations enlarged to show detail.®Trade-mark reg. In general, the frosh looked solid at all positions. This 'O}ltimisim must be cautioned, however, because the young Dutchmen have yet to face a really strong squad. That chance will come Thursday, when the yearlings travel to Hobart. The Coach Robert Benson's netmen, despite some great individual efforts, fell victim to a well-balanced Hobart College squad, 6-3, ·last Saturday at Geneva. The G~unet dropped their first four singles matches in three sets each, despite winning efforts in the first set for each Dutchman. Number one singles man, Jeff Kurzius displayed a ~EWEST 715 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE·OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921) Non.-Thurs. 7 A.M.·2 A.M. Fri.-Sot. 7 A.M.-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.-lA.M .. By BRUCE GARBER strong effort but was overpowered in three trying sets. Jeff South equalled his opponent in service, but couldn't match his consistency, and fell in the third set. Union's third and fourth singles men met the same fate as their predecessors. Len Kuckworth displayed great form in his 6~0, 6-1 win, to end Hobart's hopes for a clean sweep. Spirited by Duckwonth's trounce, AI Meisel came from a 1-5 defecit, to win the first set 7-5, and went on to win the second set 6-3. Only a sweep in the fi.nal three doubles matches could bring the Garnet a win. Their hopes were squelched, however, as KurZius and South were disposed of in two quick sets. With defeat imminent, Karpand Kuckworth were crushed in two combined with Ron Wendo1owsld for the final Garnet win, narrowing the final score to 6-3 for the afternoon_ This week the netrnen are oa the road with three toug!J. matches. Today R.P.I. hosts the Garnet. Friday, Hamiltoa welcomes the squad, ami Saturday the netmen travel t() Rochester, to face a team whicra previously defeated.Hobart, 7-2. DIAMANTE'S Enioy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Strett Open Doily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. sets. Andy Blumenthal.,_ __________ _. A. H. Pond Co., Inc., Est. 1892. \'~:.?\-~~!STEREO k ~psa.. e® DIAMOND RINGS r----------------------------- 1 HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING i I Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engage- ~ J ment and Wedding\ and new 1'2-page full color folder, both for 1 cnly 25c. Also, send special offer of beautiful44-page Bride's Book. I I Name ___________________ _ I Address-----~------------- 1 CitY-----~-----~-------- 1 State iP•--------- 1 KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 1320.1 , L----------------------------~ .. '\

