Founded at Union College 1877 VOLUME 100 . NUMBER 2 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 1, 1970 PR~CE TWENTY CENTS WRUC Begins Semester With Sc'h.edule lnclud,i·ng New Dynami-c Progr.ams At a special meeting of station personnel, late last week, returning members of the WRTJC staff elected Robert Ditter, ;71, president to take over from C. Michael .Brunson, who is studying elsewlu;:re this year. Ditter, has been with the &taff sinee his freshman year, and was program director last year. Paul Jacobson, also a senior, was named 'by Ditter to fiH the Program Directo{s post but for personal reasons he has :been unable to accept the position. George Malinowski and Kevin Drayton will share the tasks of programming with Malinowski taking care of daytime operations and Drayton directing the evening shows. In ouflining station policy for the year Ditter said that there would be a new \closed music policy\ to emphasize more music time and less disc jockey talking. FM Station The new president added that \because of the generally poor quality of the RUC signal caused by technical problems we're trying to present as professional JS possible sound in other ways.\ Rather than trying to compete with local FM stations and · individual stereo phonographs the station is going to present a great deal more features along the line of last years, \McCartney is Dead\ special. All day Sunday will be blocked into segment of folk, blues, gold, show tunes, classical,. hard rock and progressive rock when jocks will be involved directly in the show. For the first time since WRUC became interested in forming an FM station several years ago, Ditter issued a progress report on the proposal venture. With only one band left on the FM dial locally and several stations eager to get F~C approval for it, R UC has found that its proposed antenna on. the newly acquired Niskayuna Club property will not be allowed by the FAA because of interference with the Schenectady Airport. \Unless we go FM this year\ Ditter said, \we never will. But unless we can find a place for the antenna which will permit to broadcast far enough it can't be worth it.\ He added that a campus station had been ruled out by the administration for aesthetic reasons, but that a site other than Niskayuna was being investigated. Ditter also announced with Bill Ouzer, Managing Editor of CONCORDIENSIS, that news facilities of both organizations will be combined. WRUC will use only network news for national and international shows and the new joint local news facility will operate out of the former WRUC news room. . . DR. ROBERT GILSTON of Amsterdam, Ne~v YorkJ pictured here at wotk in. the Gymnasium, \•Viii succeed Dr. Carroll as Union's physician. Dr. Gilston will he ~vorking in the new, expanded infirmary facilities in Silliman Hall. This year, all three floors of the building will he devoted to infirmary and medical facilities. Watch for an interview with /)r. Gilston in the next issue.- Richard Le~ Kramer photo Richard Lee Kramer photo Richard Lee Kramer photo Chas. Long photo Martin Addresses Co.llege Dr. Harold C. Martin treated the campus community to a relevant story-telling session yesterday. Speaking at the opening convocation, held at the Memorial Chapel, Dr. Martin, a former professor of English at. Harvard, recounted three stories written by Herman Melville, a nineteenth century author best known for his novel entitled Moby Dick. Dr. Martin chose to retell the stories of \Bartleby the Scribener, \ \Benito Cereno,\ and \Billy Bud\ in order \to see what light, if any, they can shed upon your lives and minds at the present moment.\ He said that for the past three weeks he had been reading accounts of other opening speeches delivered by college presidents concerning current social unrest in the nation. Hillel Plans A Creative New Year Service Here HUlel President, Joseph Schwartz, has announced plans for a modern, creative service to celebrate the Jewish New Year Rosh Hashanah 5731. The service will be held in Old Chapel on Thursday at 4:30 p.m. The ceremony, which One basic idea of the creative service is to demonstrate a way in which religion, in general. can be adapted to the changing times. \I don't think, said Snitkoff. \that forfeiting some of the tradition involved in the High Holy Day service for some relevance will result in a loss of effectiveness or beauty.\ It is hoped that similar services can be held for audiences of mixed denominations on other holidays throughout the year. \I could echo those remarks but I have chosen not to do so, mainly because there is something also to be said about troubles which lie in ourselves.\ Dr. Martin stated that the Mexican War, the worsening issue of slavery. and the spreading indus trial revolution all had contributed to \the changing character of life\ in America when Melville wrote these storeies. President Martin retold the stories, reading selected passages from each, and purposely avoided d(awing any conclusions for his audience. Instead he urged protesters and students to ponder the meaning of the stories and \to make a new effort to understand yourselves and others, and to become in the process something richer and better than you were when you began.\ Dr. Martin received a lengthy ovation from the Y.! filled Chapel. According to tradition. . professors were regaled 111 academic gowns for the ceremony. incorporates just a few of the traditional Hebrew rites, will feature modern readings in religion and philosophy which are thematically akin to the problems of our decade. Coordinators of the service, Michael Sachs and Louis Snitkoff have announced that the service is designed to appeal to all members of the college community and they urge men and women of all denominations to attend the brief service. Rabbi Sidney Zimelman, who is working with Sachs and Smitkoff in the design of the service, expressed the hope that the event would be viewed as a welcoming of the New Year rather than a strictly religious service. Rush Activities on Friday The service will feature readings concerning the nature of man, the plight of Soviet Jews and hope for peace in the near future. In order to involve the audience to the greatest possible degree, most readings. will be done responsively. Rabbi Zimelman will demonstrate the rare and beautiful art of b I owing the Shofar, symbolic of the calling of the New Year. All of the readings will be dtme in English, except for one prayer read by the Rabbi in Hebrew .. The Inter-Fraternity Council has announced that the annual freshman fraternity rush will begin this Friday, October 2. This year, the rush period will end before Thanksgiving recess, with a second rush. period to follow later in the year. The first rush will be slightly longer this year, as the rushing period began as late as homecoming weekend in mid- October last year. Representatives from various fraternities will be available, to answer the questions of freshmen, in dormitory lounges this week. This year, most fraternities have already extended open- house invitations to the women on campus, to give them an opportunity to see some of the fraternity houses. Cocktail parties and dances with live bands are on the agenda to entertain the freshmen. The fraternities will aim to better last year's fresh rna n brotherhood which numbered only slightly more than one-third of the freshman class that figure represented a decrease of roughly ten per cent over the previous year. Union, the mother of fraternities, will offer it~ freshmen fifteen fraternities to choose from. The decrease in one from the sixteen on campus last year. reflects the change in status of Phi Epsilon Pi. now known at \1247.\ Beginning next Friday, Oct. 9, CONCORDIENSIS will publish a four page magazine supplement, entitled FACSIMILE. that will com a in short works of fiction, poetry, art, cartoons, a ,d other pieces inappropriat• for a college newspaper. . .II students are invited to c~...ntribute.

PAGE 2 CONCORDlENS!S. OCT. I. I«.J70 The Alma Mater BY FITZHUGH LUDLOW Letters to the Editors Dear Editor: Stratton, an mtellectuaJ ew:.wn took place. Awhor of.\llemoirs of a Hashish Eater Presented following the silence during the openin1 convocation yesterday: Professor Sam StrattorJ would have flunked Congressman Sam Stratton for his performance d11ring a recent TV debate with his opponent, Congressman Dan Hutton. About twenty years ago. Prof. Stratton taught philosophy 101 at Union College and I was fortunate enough to be one of his students. We struggled with the concept of absolute truth ... among other things .... gropi,ng for answers that were elusiYe, but trying to maintain the integrity of scholars. But that was 20 years ago and the rea.! world turned ·OUt differently from our ivory tower at Union College. And as Prof. Sam Stratton became Councilman Stratton... th~n, Mayor Stratton... and then, Congressman Stratton... and, hopefully, Governor and even ... and, why not?... President No longer was it necessary to search for truth ... the goal was to win an argument regardless of the means.... half truths ... omJssJons... distortions... an appeal to emotions... anything, as long as you win the debate ... and the election. · \'Let the Grecian dream of his sacred stream And sing o 1 brave adorning. That hoebus weaves from his laurel leaves At the golden gates of morning. But the bror ~: that bounds Through old Union's grounds Gleams bright as the Delphic water And a prize as fair as a God may wear is a dip from our alma mater. So here's thee the brave and free Old Union smiling o'er us And for many a day as thy walls grow grey May they ring with thy children's chorus. * * * * * College Security Efforts Active on AU Affronts I Richmond House, at present , suspended somewhere between dormitory and fortress, remains the only living unit yet to report parietals. According to administration sources no vote can be taken until the security system is complete. Exactly what part of the multi-faceted defense must be operational before the vote cam take place is unknown. Sources. were unclear as to whether we must await completion of the intrusion alarm system, designed to forever seal the side and back doors from invaders or the intercom to summon coeds from their rooms to the reception area. Richmond's defenses when . It is felt by law enforcement experts that nothing can be done to make the residents of Richmond inpregnable, although the college has made a gallant attempt. This includes locking of all class rootn buildings from Friday at 4:30 until Monday at 8:30 and the chapel (since coats and ties are no longer required). Twenty years ago we examined the implications of power in society... \power corrupts ... absolute powe·r corrupts absolutely.;, Prof. Stratton lectured beautifully, He should have stayed a professor. DAVID COPLON, '50 * * * * To ~he Editor: Under the Laws of Minerva We all become brothers? finally developed may be quite formidable - several campus cops are reading Report from Serious thieves are of course not going to be deterred from looting rooms and since fellow students are seldom guilty and campus maintenance crews are beyond suspicion the blame has fallen on a notorious gang of fifteen third graders seen hanging around Davidson and Fox, a sinister group with the M.O. of posing as little brothers in the Big Brother program. Recognizing this threat the campus has turned the finest brains in the administration to foiling them. To · date the Many (J rJion College students are no doubt dismayed at the co.llege's policy of charging two doHars entrance fee at· football games for dates. A college community depends upon alumni support for operation, . and the alumni in -turn ' expect· <Jevelopmcmt and improyement of the campus,. as wen: as the involvement of the students in camplls affai.s. The, two dollars required for attending a campus activity, is, by its very nature, detrimental to this involvement, placing added burden upon the student in general, and making it impossible for certain students to participate at all. A large protest registered by .the students in the form of a petition might effect this needed change. If not l urge a boycott of the homecoming day game, an action certain to bring results. Orientation Iron Mountain (Large Print Edition) in preparation for night duty there. Even security cautious campusofficials discarded the GARY FRIEDMAN With its usual good intentions and poor food, orientation ~Jumbled through another edition on behalf of the class of 1974. Several changes for next year coul<l help streamline the program. First off registration, with upperclassmen returning to register a day earlier than the froshJ the new comers are denied a day or two to themselves to get to know the campus in relative peace. We should return to the old system of registration. It may also be best to trim a day from the program. idea of a moat around the building, choosing instead an alert crew of Pinkerton police who fend off would be intruders with a rapier wit, a friendly ~mile and intimidating intelligence. The police are not required to keep the girls from leaving • the building when there is a fire after midnight. This will be in effect until the fire extinguishers are filled. The alarm has been installed. campaign has been moderately successful: losses are put at one clock radio, twenty dollars cash and the president's copy of Billy Budd. \If we don't stop them now when they are eight and nine,\ one source warned. \in twenty or thirty years they'll be teaching poli sci here.\ There has been much speculation concerning the possible presence of undercover agents on campus, narcs and the like. According to sources very close to the DA, no drug officers have been assigned to this campus. However, a file, misplaced on a bench in the Rathskellar, revealed a campaign to thwart would be deviates by having campus police dress up as women and filtering throughout the campus on Weekends. \We have been looking for cops who can pass as women, a personnel officer said, but we've had trouble finding those who will fit the bill.\ The program was tried out last weekend at the Russell Sage mixer when two hundred such disguised policemen arrived on campus. Evaluation is still underway, but it is felt that even those who fit in the best could not possibly be made director of admissions for at least six months. One mixup occurred when two undercover policemen Keaton Film. Good Laugh Those who had come to laugh at the corniness and dated plot of \The General,\ the Buster Keaton film shown last Friclay, soon found themselves laugning with the genius of Keaton's timing and acrobatics. The film was a classic in the true sense of the word, a movie of timeless excellence. Outdoor seminars and the discussions based around a book assigned over the summer are likely victims. Thirdly, the traditional mixer with Russell Sage could be made easier for those girls left unescorted if one of the buses hired for the evening returned to Troy at about 9:00 p.m. instead of forcing all to remain until midnight or one. If nothing else, since they have been here, girls have learned how old they will live to be, how many children they will have and the miscellaneous evils of a life with men. They have been told that the ideal situation for a girl Published T u e s day and Friday during the School year by the Stooent Body of Union College, Schenec- tady, N.Y. National Adver- t i s i n g R e p r e s e n t ative National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- sentative, 360 Lexington Avenue, N.Y.C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, (tnion College Publication Office, The World PubUca- tioas, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription 20 celts a copy. $6 a year de Uvered anywhere in the United States. Peter J. W eingold Editor-in-Chief William Ouzer .................. Managing Editor Lloyd Birns ................ · .. · Business Manager Louis S. Snitkoff. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . News Editor Daniel S(bochet ................ Features Editor William J. Holleran ............. Sports Editor Jody Saslow .................... Photography Editor Henry J. Fein ................. · Executive Editor ·Richard S. Kramer .............. Contributing Editor Staff: Rohert A. Levine, Douf? Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb. Peter Dickerman, Neil Green, Douglas oJ.lrl, George Kaplan, Charles Long, Mark Shugo/1, Stu Moss, Dave Conrey, Doug Binder, Thomas Morante, Mike Messerole, Michael Hollander, Michael Rosenberg, I Ruth Morton. going to a men's school is to have gone to an all female school instead. Union apparently went coed so that girls could be warned from making the mi.stake a gam. However this particular institution has the only biology department competent to train girls to have .3 babies. (While juggling a bus schedule with one hand). In terms of campus safety everything has been done to make this a safer place to be. Two station wagons have been purchased and tour the campus with their bright lights on lest foul play be taking place in cars illegally parked. Those in student designated areas are not bothered as long as all involved do not receive student aid. (Debate is in progress to determine the culpability of commuter students). in poor lighting where the VITA building once stood had a brief illicit relationship; a staffer from the counselor to students office was flown to straighten things out and, at last report, the three were living happily in an apartment on Park Place. Frosh Activities Exposition Strengthens Campus Clubs Sunday night in west college. a place strangely appropriate to the occassion. freshmen were treated to the • annual activities exposition. This· year the affair was put together by senior Terry McManus and featured some two dozen majqr campus clubs and service organi7ations. Highlights of the evening were music provided by the social committee, having their best turnout in two years, and the WRUC slide show, showing signs of .age hut sti11 the best presentation of the show. Groups which reported the greatest display of interest were CONCORDIENSIS, WRUC and Of> Mov a group le~ by Mrs. Gail George for those iilterested in learning self expressi.on through dance and movement. The plot begins with Johnny Gray (Keaton) being rejected from the Confederate army because he is a railroad engineer, and therefore essential to the war effort. Since the film is a fantasy, Gray is heartbroken. H-owever, the Union army sends spies into the South to wipe out the rail lines, and Keaton, in his engine \The General,\ not only stops them, hut rescues his fiancee. In the end, Keaton is made a lieutenant. The plot is only an excuse for Keaton to employ his acrobatic talents and his sure control over the comical posibilities of inanimate objects. Keaton realized t...he power of th~ ca!llera in aiding the comic effect, and his many angles differ greatly from other silent screen comedians, most obviously in comparison to the static camera of Chaplin. Keaton was truly an innovator, and \ihe General\ serves as an education as well as an entertainment. Unfortunately, the film will not return to the campus this year, but try to get to any Keaton revival you should be lucky enough to hear about. However, the filtn ~eries, shown at ss016 on Ftiday nights, has scheduled a variety of excellent silent films. The wotks of Chaplin, Eisenstien, and Griffith will be presented. This Friday, four Chaplin shorts will be shown. These are from the period when C~plin was an entertainer of the masses, before he became the darling of the intellectuals. The humor is mor.e vulgar and viscious than his later films. . . .

eru:,ion sary to was to less of ... an ything, ... in ... '50 the two otball the .pect· the in ture, the it to the day ring AN gh of er m ss r, s .. • Richard Lee Kramer ph• CONCORDIE~SIS, OCT. I. 1970 PAGE 3 Spring Hope and Turmoil Fades into New Despair By Jamil Falducciwitz On a quiet Thursday night, Richard Nixon announced his master plan to sent troops into Cambodia, and Union college. along with the rest of the country. began an angry convulsion that e\Cntually deteriorated into a hopeless defeat. Nixon's speech was still being discussed by television commentators when Union students began to march in the deserted streets of Schenectady. Leaderless, direct ion less. th~v shouted \1-2-3-4- No mor~ goddamn war.\ tell that this time was different; the government had gone too far; the country would no longer support the Pentagon. What made these normally realistic cynics so hopeful was the incredible number of students imohed. Students who had ne\er gone to a demonstration before began to refer to themselves as radicals. ;-.;ot onlv Union, hut the entire co !leg~ community became an active. dynamic political force. lt was a special spirit and unfortunately it may never happen again. but we can all be proud that we are capable of it. and should be aware of our potential power. Gado on Bergman Creative Genius: The group disbanded, deciding to meet the next morn.ing when the school's radicals. those who go to Washington each Fall for the annual anti-Viet Nam war demonstration, met and decided to march on Gene~al Electric. and then the draft board. Meanwhile. at Kent State. four students were murdered bv their peers, and when the . news reached Union, the mood on campus changed. Those who felt that they could work within the system began. reading the obituary section hopeful! v looking for Republicans. A combination of terror and anger replaced the expectation of peace. Old. Hat No Longer Excites Swedes By Danny Shocket Professor Frank Gado spent last year in Sweden conducting ·research for a book on the Swedish film director lngmar Bergman. At the same time, he held what he thought would be a part-time teaching post at the University of Upsala; he soon found himself in the midst of an educational revolution. \There are a great many students in the University who shouldn't be there. Because Sweden still places· priority on the 'useful subjects', the social sciences and, to 'an even greater extent, the humanities, have been inundated with students who are poorly prepared, who have very little motivation, who ·are there just to establish minimal credentials for a job.\ Professor Gado feels Swedes a•·e more materially oriented than Americans, and this has been an influential factor. in the make-up of their educational system. Sweden is also experiencing a drive toward democratization that has resulted in campus cleaning ladies serving on governing boards of various institutions and, at the University of Gothenburg, in the election of ~ man who ran the mimeograph machine as perfect (department chairman). · For Bergman, though there is no loss of prestige, there is a change in the nature of his prominence. His countenance and voice are . perhaps more familiar than even the Prim.e Minister's, but the affection of his audience is shrinking. \The new Swedish directors are very much socially engaged. Films, books, television shows, all the arts tend to be evaluated in terms of social utility, or the role they play in politicising, or educating their audience socially. Thete is an antagonism toward anything which is aesthetically manipulated, and this comes through in the films. Bergman is regarded as old hat, a monument· rather than a freshening spring. I went to the premiere of 'A Passion for Anna' in Upsala and was surprised to find only thirty- two people in the theater. Upsala has a student population of upwards of 20,000 plus a town population of over 100,000. I ~hink Bergman as a film director does not excite Swedes· very much, and perhaps never did, really. He was ignored at home until foreign audiences ·became ecstatic in the mid-fifties. There is a great distance between Bergman and the Swedish population. \The new directors are tending to use the camera in a very casual way. They are very interested in extensions of cinema verite, a lot of ~and-held cameras, an 'attempt to. be artless and I think they're doing quite well at it. ''The average young Swede is ~ot at all prepared by his educational background, and really by his inclination to contend with the Lutheran, classical and Hebrew complexities that Bergman deals with.. At the risk of sounding . chauvinistic, college students are usually better prepared, in terms of their interest, in terms of their education, to deal with the complexities of a Bergman or an Antonionni. The cultural vocabulary, the objective correlatives .that Bergman relies upon are just not an active part of a Swedish student's intellectual life. \One reason Bergman has been concentrating more on television of late may be that he suspects his future as a film director in Sweden is relatively limited.\ This is not to say, Professor Gado emphasises, that Bergman is a candidate for early retirement. The man is involved in an incredible number of creative projects; the famed director's creative drive borders on obsession. ''Without implying that Bergman is mentally ill, 1 would call him a psychologically disturbed man - maybe most geniuses are, I don't know. He has always wanted to excel, and he has always lived very intensely ' in a fantasy life. Apparently, when the man is under the greatest emotional stress, he turns to his writing, to his fantasies as an outlet. \He began playing with puppets as a child and kept at the hobby into his college days. At one time he thought of a career as an author, and in the early days he seemed to be a Today's issue of CONCORDIENSIS will be the only issue this week due to the dosing of printing facilities for the Jewish New Year this Thursday and Friday. However, next week we will resume our regular publication schedule, and CONCORDY wiH be distributed to dorms and fraternities on Tuesday and Friday evenings. CONCORDY will publish on Monday and Thursday evenings, in the Geology building,room #23. All students interested in working on the paper in any capacity are welcome to visit our offices or contact any of the editors. Staff members are patticularly needed to do layout and copy work but positions are also available in news, features, business, photography, sports, drama reviews, typing and headlines. playwright. He started .off as a The morning was sunny and theater man. Even today, there is warm: a perfect day for civil greater excitement in Sweden disobedience. About 600 students when there is a new Bergm{h marched down State Street. production at the Royal passing Schenectady Community Dramatic Theater than there is College, and into one of the when a new Bergman film is many entrances ofG.E. released.\ We failed to close down G.E., For a variety . of reasons, but we did disrupt the workings economics not the least of them, of the executive departments (if Bergman has decided to direct an they're hanging out of the American co-production starring windows watching us sit in the Elliot Gould. \I don't believe this street, we did disrupt business, film is going to come off, at least ' right?). that's my hunch. Bergman has We marched to the draft often announced plans for films board, and then left to block to be made abroad, and he State Street. Almost everybody always pulls back. Just this year. tried to grab the megaphone; he cancelled plans for a joint each person trying to make clear project that he had with Fellini, to the crowd and himself what · the director he feels he has most the hell he was doing there. in common with.\ Bergman's The weekend. was used to pull first brush with Hollywood, and our aims together. Strike Central an English script for \Hedda was formed as a clearing house Gabler,\ left the young director for the incredible amount of data with !i feeling that there was not circulating in the college and only a language barrier, but a between colleges. After the anger cultural barrier in the way of co- subsided, Strike Central operation with Hollywood. continued; many felt idealism \Hollywood is still, despite all was buried under bureaucracy. It the changes of the last ·decade, made it easier to quit. motivated primarily by box Monday saw a demonstration, office considerations. Bergman followed· !Jy canvassing. Though has become more and more results were not good, they were private in his aJt. lf the marriage much better than expected. Even produces a film, I su'spect it will those who had knocked on doors be an only child.\ with peace petitions since 1965 On Tuesday. there was a memorial service and the introduction of UNDO. UNDO is an organi1ation that was supposed to sweep the college campuses collecting draft cards to be returned whence thev came. Twenty thousand card~ were expected to be collected. In the weeks that followed. union did not close, out class attendance, with the correct credit juggling and the temporary grading reforms agreed to hy the faculty after a mass meeting hv students. could he elimin;ted. Many continued to at tend demonstrations. distribute petitions, , aid the high ~chool students. hut many others either left school or attempted to become perpetually stoned. ll N DO finally collected 5,000 cards which the Justice Department refused to collect. This almost cpitomi1cd the entire spring ordeal; t.hc gO\.ernmcnt refused to recngniJe th~· nerve- stretching_ tension in the ~t reels. refused to listen to a nation scrcami ng to remain alive. and continued the war. Another Piercing View: Through The Window OF A Greyhound Scenicruiser be smart to get a shave and a haircut to avoid su:-.picion. remarked that no one could say that our boys' moving to Canada was causing a brain drain hack in the States, hut Crisis ignored my charming wit. By Mike Messerole Riding on a Greyhound bus gives you plenty of time to think,; ergo plenty of time to sleep~ergo plenty of time to be awakened by some clown who wants to talk. Rolling through the Mohawk Valley, just the other day on a Scenicruiser, I was sharply elbowed out of a peaceful slumber at 8:35 in the morning. Steam rising from my ears and menacingly chewing on my teeth, I IMked up and was aghast to see my old, springtim, student- radical buddy, Roy Crisis. \Hey Roy, howya been?\ \#*$%¢t&!\ Same old, loveable Roy. Even though his vocabulary has never impressed me as advanced, no one could say that last spring's \Cambodian Holiday,\ which we all enjoyed so selfishly much, had spoiled Roy. He was the same - gloomy. I've often wondered if Crisis has ever been genuinely happy about anything. As long as I can remember he's always looked on the dark side of everything. It's too bad; I always enjoyed hearing what he had to say, but after a while it seemed that he was inflexible and leaned decidedly to the negative. His views became borini I inquired to see if summer had seen any good days for him. \Funny you should ask,\ he replied, \no good ones, thankfully, but I had some great bad days. Right on, and a few of 'em were out and out miserable. Why just the other day at the University of 'Buffalo there were bomb threats, cops with slit throats, not to mention ~orne good gun-shot wounds ... \ '\Yes sir,\ he concluded. \these heavy cats are our only hope for the future.\ \Gee that sounds, terrific,\ I ventured. With optimism like this, who a h... needs grave misfortune\? \I'll say, but I had the worst time this summer at some friends' house. What? Yes I got friends, you Fascist. Well, ~s I was saying, it was really bad news, I crashed at Dana and Sandy's pad ... \ Crisis went on to explain how great old Dana and Sandy wen: and how they smoked dope, dropped acid, tho ugh t the President was not only an asshole, but a consummate one as well (gosh-golly!), and how groovy it was that they went to bed with everyone in sight even themselves. Not only that, but as an extra-added attraction, they were full-fledged conductors on the Underground Expres~ to Canada. In fact while he was there, Crisis noted, the Laurel a~1d Hardy of draft dodgedom - Tim and Tom. -· showed up to book passage. They were told it might '\Wait a second, Roy.\ said L bowled over by this surprise summary. \What about the other kids of America? The ones \l.ho don't buy the extreme politics of the Left, but aren't receptive to thl! ravings of Spiro Agnew either. Kids who have more respect for their brains. their bodies,. and other people than Dana and Sandy do'? Kids who refuse to run like Tim and Tom. because they know that the on!~ way to right injustice is to stick around and work at it\? What about the Middle of the Road extremists\?\ But crisis hadn't heard my catchy little label for \the vast majority of America's youth.\ He had picked up his gloom and pushed on down the aisle of the bus, taking a seat next to a British-looking kid who seems:d to be just ignorant enough about America to agree wit~ everyth}ng Crisis said .

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. I, 1970 Experience Livingston Taylor. SENATE ELECTIONS By M. Grossman ·· l'his would get too abstruse except for English professors\ to quote Michael. Foll0wing is a typical' sixteenth century introduction. This piece is being written to satisfy my insatiable appetite for dirtying clean paper. I would like to apologize for writing this overbearing article on something or other and for my editoralizing -- which is fun: This article is dedicated to Uncle Frankie Jappa my hero and yours and to the eternal ice-worm's home -- \it's not a house, it's a home.\ The article follows. Spring is a nice time of year - everything living very beautiful. I imagine just about everyone has heard James Taylor -- if you haven't -- the music is kind of a soft, country-folk, easy- flowing walk along a forest path in late summer when it's not too hot - and his brother sounds on record almost exactly alike. I'm afraid to say that I feel Livingston's claim to fame {tricky assoname there) depends very heavily on his older brother, who broke the ice {another awhl cliche) - they really sound ve1y similar. Both their songs have country overtones all over the place and one of Livingston's songs has words that ar.e l'ike James's \Carolina in my Mind\ And if you live north of the 49th paralle'l, your last name's second letter is I and if you have completed the map question and question numbers I, 2, 3, 4, a and b, S and 6 as section 3 of the Criminal Cocje Act, you can also listen to \Workingman's Dead\. If you really want to read something now, read M. Gottlieb's article. It's seriously funny or funny seriously. I have fun writing these anyway. Thank you. Elections for Student Senators and officers of the Classes of 1971, '72, '73, will be held on Wednesday, Oct. 7th in the living units on campus. Senators will be elected from each· fraternity and from the area under the auspices of each resident advisor. The Student Senate at its final meeting in May voided the spring class officer elections due to lack of participation. Each of the three upper classes will elect a President, Vice-p,resic!ent, secretary and Treasurer to serve a one year term. Each candidate must submit a petition signed by 80 members of his class. Petitions may be picked up a1 ·.~be Student Activities Office. They must be returned to Student Activities by 4 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 6th. Students will vote for class officers at the same meeting at which they elect Senators. Freshmen will elect class. ·officers early in the winter term. OFF CAMPUS ELECTIONS ' Students wishing to become Senators from off campus must submit petitions signed by 15 other off campus students to Student Activities by Tuesclay, Oct, 6th. These petitions may be picked up at Student Activities this week. There are 11 vacancies for Senators from off campus. Off campus students may vote for class officers and Se'nate representatives at the Student Activities Office from 10 a.m. to noon and I to 4:3() p.m. on Oct. 7th. Anyo~e with questions should call Bill Ouzer at 3 72-971 6 or Walter Spencer at 374-7004. Well, here we are again, back at Union College in wonderful, wonderful Schenectady, New York. Schenectady has a great deal to offer. I won't go into that now -- just teo much to talk about in such a short time. And welcome freshmen. Maybe you can change something. Apathy. Apathy. Magic bus. ' Well (to start two paragraphs with the same word -- at least something is consistent about this) to contradict all obvious appearances, this is an ~rticle about music. Music. Music is everything - pictures. emotions -- beyond words as far as communication is concerned -- try describing an emption -- if you can do it wit:h just words tell me and I'll give you a free S.O.S. pad to wash the magic bus from the first paragraph. very similar. Livingston Taylor is a .good prelude to James - that's about it. lf you are a proverbial James Taylor freak or some shit (I had ~o use that word 'cos I'm allowed to this year ~ allow? - what an orgasm-orgasm? - very hollow- onion sweat) you'll like Livingston Taylor, if you don't like James Taylo'r, don't bother seeing Livingston; if you're not sure about liking James or liking Livingston or liking their music or going on a date or getting drunk-good and stonned ~ or not sure about anything, go see him because it's an experience (not >the sensational, head-line connotation) since you only live once unless you're G-d who never died or was never born or believe in reincarnation or really want to live again - you can do anything you want if you really want to do The Campus Mail Carriers Federation wishes to inform those students who have had a change in box number from last year that they should notify their loved ones (those who write them regularly), creditors, debtors, and periodicals of the-ir new address. The slot at the west college mail room is not a receptac'le for outgoing mail. It 1s reserved for i:ncorrectly addrtlssed mail and unsolicited pornography. Finally,~ package pick up will be done only on Monday through Thursday from 7:30 to 8:00p.m. Opening Of Center 111 Triple Bunks In Dotms _ Please help us help you. With the opening of Ce~ter UI, a new era in education begins . at Union. A list of fifty courses and Comp. Ed. Options has be.en . approved; an,d a course discdption booklet and errata list will be available from the Registrar's Office \sometime next week\ See A Broad-way Show At Half Price With ID After an informal survey oi knowledge.able College sources we have gathered the following info~mation: The proposed increase in enrollment will · not force students off campus. Instea·d, the Maintenance Department, with unprecedented foresight has devised a triple bunk system for Fox and Davidson. The exist-ing double bunks will be moved to West. Desks will be set up in unused portions of the Gymnasium (or students unable to study in their rooms. Well (consistency again) Livingston Taylor is coming Oct. 16th and James Taylor is coming in the winter. Sister Kate Taylor is too shy. She'll have a record out tentatively in the late Spring. it badly enough, it's good to get Through a special program as many experiences as you can. instituted by the League of New York Theaters, college students made available by and at the discretion of ,each show, depending on ticket demand through the regular channels. Shows that are currently doing capacity business, such as \Applause\ and \Hair\ are not in a position to offer the discount tickets. The Rathskeller will continue its dosed · cloor policy through lunch, and the resulting bedlam is expected to revitalize a sagging interest in Fraternity and eating clubs. Construction of the Center complex will begin .aftl!r completion of the new Arts Dept. building. Entering 5-year program freshmen should see ground breaking activities if attendance is mandatory. Hallmark Cards may now buy tickets to most Sponsors Broadway shows at half~price. l]pon the presentatiOn of a student I.D. card at theatre Midwest Poetry Contest Pri7es totalling $1.600 are being offered in the eighth annual Kansas City (Mo.) Poetry Contests. announced by Hallmark Cards. Inc. A book- length poetry manuscript also will be chosen for publication. Full-time undergraduate students in the United States are elgible for one of six $100 prizes to be awarded for a single poem by Hallmark. one of four contest sponsors. Other pri7es include a $500 advance on royalties for a book- length poetry manuscript from the Devins Award. The book will be published by the University of Missouri Press. The Kansas City Star. the third sponsor, is offering four $100 prizes for single poems. The H. Jay Sharp Memorial Awards for poetry provide tour $25 prizes for poems by high school students of Missouri and bordering states. Contest judges have not been announced, but in the past have included Conrad Aiken, Louis Untermeyer, Robert Penn Warren, James Dickey. Carolyn Ki7er, William Stafford. and the late Winifield Townley Scott. Entries must be postmarked by February I, 1971. Winners will be announced April 26. 1971, at the closing reading of the 1970-71 American Poets' Series of the Kansas City Jewish Community Center. All entries are judged anonymously. For complete contest rules, send a stamped, self-addressed business envelope to: Kansas City Poetry Contests, P.O. Box 5313. Every nite Sunday through Thursday at nine a Special WRUC feature: Wednesday (tonight) - William Kunstler at Union College - 1970 Thursday ~ Bessie Smith - Her first and last recordings Sunday - Co.,eds Speak out - An Interview with Union Co-eds Monday - Woodstock - The Soundtrack m its entirety Any campus organization which wants one hour of air time to present a creative program should contact Phil Robinson at 393-3793 or at WRUC. boxoffices, student purchasers may buy a maximum of two tickets at precisely half the regular price. The program, which has been iQ effect since last July and which has been encouragingly received, does not apply to every performance of every Broadway show, however. The student discount tickets are But the majority of Broadway productions, including such established hits as \Promises Promises,\ \177:6 \Child's Play,\ \Butterflies Are Free\ and \Fiddler on. the Roof,\ are offering the student discounts. Students who wish to take advantage of the program are advised to check the individual boxoffices in advance, to determine where the discounts are available. The Colle2e has received a grant of $28,570 from the Empire State Foundation,' an organization of 25 independent liberal arts colleges in New York state. The allocation is Union's share of the annual group fund raising effort for the support of small private colleges in the state. The Empire State group annually solicits the support of corporations and foundations throughout the state. With its headquarters in New York City, this year the foundation is under the leadership of Dr. Harold C. Martin, Chairman. Last year the foundation raised $681,107' for member institutions. Union has also received $40,000 .from the Stephen J. Potter Memorial Foundation for the endowment of a fellowship for research in the uses of bitun1inous materials in the construction and safety of public highways. The fellowship will be awarded annually with research to be conducted in conjunction with the Stephe~ ;J, Potter Memorial laboratory dedicated at Union College in 1968, and used. as a universal testing facility for structures and materials. The reduced\price tickets are available both on an advance- sale basis and on the · day of performance. Shows that are \previewing\ prior to an official opening night, a common procedure in the Broadway theatre today, will also offer student discount tickets. BRIDGE TOURNAMENT The Union College Student- Faculty Bridge Club will hold its first Tournament on· Tuesday, October 13, at 7:45 p.m. in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. The tournament is open to all members of the College community and anyone with questions concerning Bridge Club activities, please contact Robert Lavin, 321 Davidson. .,.... _ _.... __ ............. __ , .. l IF UNION . TAUGHT a '_ \TRUTH\ ' f We would have the greater f f understanding n·eeded to A rationalize differences and ' I solve· social problems ·without f • resort to force and violence. f For a scientific \FORMULA • FOR TRUTH\ that exposes f • WHAT IS TRUTH: and an •. inttoauction to a new science f for peace; send ·$J to 6 TRUTHOLOGY,. 619 Central f f Ave., Albany, N.Y. 12206. a Cycles Taboo Students are reminded that motor cy.cles and motor bikes are not to be driven on campus roadways. These vehicles may be taken only to the . peripheral parking lots and should not be ridden on any college property except fot direct entrance and exit from street to parking lot. Use of the lots requires a registration sticker obtained from the security .office. Motor vehicles, including motor cycles and motor bikes, are not to be parked on porches or inside campus buildings. Students are also reminded that the speed limit for all vehicles on campus is 15 m.p.h.s. EDWARD J. MALLOY Dean of Students \ Appearing soon: The nation.'s only ALL-PANASONIC store, at Mohawk Mall, Niskayuha ',f:tNim. sJA.;( \ . . . Panasonic is the Whole, Showi\ I ~ 0 is p 11 [ y a a b (' E F F s t f s I r t r r 2 ~

at o,rs. 15 to be 11 off to or of ot if I DONJT. KNDW WHAT' 1HE BIG OfAL Is. A8DMT Gt~RL s C.-.1 C.AM,US. JE$1AS I r wISH· r ~-e.Ri. A fRESHM~· I Ex,perienced _Vet Reviews Joyous Freshmen Mixers Michael Gottlieb As ail of you undoubtedly may or may not remember, this issue is the first anniversary of the publication· of that brilliant monograph (\shades of . Pope, Dryden; Swift\-TIME) on last year's freshmen·~ mixers by the above author, To corrunemorateis august occasion, the author has been commissioned by W. Ouzer (CONCORDIENSIS Senior Executive Associate Editor and Roving Head Mucky Mriuck Pooh Bah) to produce a suitable sequel. As this is being dashed off two hours before deadline in the flickering light of the author's study with a particularly peripatetic bic pen and a particularly fawning ·group of hangerson impeding the autho~ progress, humbly he begs his reader's patience and pardon. To return to the subject Land, all freshmen, after attending the annual Jonathon· Pearson HI Memorial Whate' Penis Address; sampling the ctdinary delights and surprises of the unique West College cuisine, and receiving the official unofficial Union .College Listony and trivia test (i.e. the first man hung in the U.S. Navy was a Union man; or the most famous president of the school, who had, post Seemously, a prominent piece of coilege architecture named after Sim, was ' a swindler of no mean proportions} (don't worry-the end of the sentence is coming ·right up) . are undoubtedly salivating and otherwise exhibiting outward signs of eagerness at the prospect (and itnagined possibilities) of t:he upcoming mixers with Skidmore and Russell Sage (and R.P.I: - which is another story). To provide something of a guide to all the unwary, and soon to be disallHsioned freshmen, the · author shall attempt to 'give his impressions of the mixers he has attended during his long journalistic career. Our story opens with a shifting amorphous mass of males impatiently awaiting; gidgetfng, tie straightening and palm wetting; the imminent approach of the females. The Females arrive · without fail two hours late and at that point on campus which the furthest possible qist('!.nce from where the Males are stationed. A mad stampede (of Males) across campus toward the Females, ensues. Which comes to an abrupt and bone jarring halt exactly fifty feet from where the Females (having just alighted from their buses) stand and wonder why the hell they came. Anyway, approximately thirty minutes of mutually hostile inspection take place now, each group eyeing the other across a newly discovered no man's land, with the whole scene resembling nothing so much as a cross between a cattle auction and a police lineup. Well, not very Johnsonian those parenthetical expressions (but no matter) although it may not seem as so at the time, this too (usually) passes and the males, summoning up reserves of courage,untapped since they were twelve 1 first and ventured into a stationary store to buy Playboy, actually start talking to (some of) the females, and the proverbial ice, once again· as in all stories . with a happy ending, is broken. Things, in general, proceed smoothly thereon, o_ccasionally a coed misses her bus back to Saratoga or Russell Sage and shows up at school, suitably disheveled, the next morning; but such cases are somewhat rare as the abilities necessary to accomplish that particulat feat are not yet (if ever) present in most Union freshmen. To conclude, kind readers, it is the author's most fervent hope that these hastily scribbled lines have been at least a bit instructive and enlightening and Think but this, and all is menrled, That you have but slumber'd here While all these visions did appear. And this weak and idle theme, no more yielding but a dream, Gentles, do not reprehend: If you pardon we will mend- but you dumb suckers better rember These ate the last shicks you'll see til next september. .... CONCORDlENSIS, OCT. I, 1970 PAGE 5 Martin On Campus Unrest Ed. Note: Following · is the text oj President Martin's message to the Joint Legislative Committee on Hi~ther Education. In the light of the upsurge of campus disturbances following President Nixon's announcement of the Cambodian incursion, lik'e other college administrators I am even more aware than I previously was of the volatility of the campus. scene at this time, The fact that public reaction has become increasingly hostile and belligerent has no doubt reduced the enthusiasm of some half-hearted campus activists, but it is my impression that the real militants are not only undeterred but even encouraged by it. No more than others can I predict what campuses will be like in the coming academic terms, but l suspect it is wise to anticipate at least as much unrest as in the previous year and possibly a good deal more. How much the Union campus will be affected, I cannot say. We have to date had no violence, no building occupations, no arson or other destruction, but that is no guarantee about tomorrow. It takes only one person to set a fire or hurl a stone and only a handful to seize a building. No . one can possibly provide a guarantee that none of these actions will occur. What one can do, and what· we have tried and shall continue to do at Union is to provide many channels for communication, to simplify and publ~cize basic rules of operation, to deal with grievances before they fester, and to share authority as widely as accountability makes possible. Our security staff will remain the same in size as last year but it is --now fully equipped with electro~ic communications equipment and supplied with vehicles carrying emergency gear. The director of safety and security, a former FBI officer in Washington, has excellent rapport with local and area police groups. Discipline will be handled, as it has been for many years, by a joint faculty- staff-student committee. More care is now taken to ensure compliance with recent due-process rulings of the courts, but the pattern is essentially the same as, it has been. three years ago the basic rule relating to disorders was formulated and is spelled out clearly in Student Life, the handbook for students. It prohibits interference with \the legitimate discourse, traffic and business of any who have an approved association with the College.\ A President's Council, composed of persons representing all campus constituencies, has formulated criteria for action in the event of serious disorder. A Liaison Committee of faculty members and students acts successfully as an agency for settling mmor grievances, investigating rumors, and apprising the administration of problems needing attention. Because so much depands, in a time of crisis, on agreemeflt reached beforehand about the limits of action. the President has asked for and received from th~ Board of Trustees approval of priorities of concern in the event of disorder likely to precipitate violence. First priority is for the safety of persons: second is for the preservation of institutions (the law, college regulations. the collegiate enterprise and structure itself): the third is for protection of property. The order of priorities does not of itself .offer or suggest immunity from discipline for illegal action of any kind: it is simply a guideline for rational control of disorder by a system of values. The general intention of the administration is to deal with infractions without outside assistance. Should it become necessary to seek help from civil authority, the College has papers in readiness for submission to proper court authorities and has engaged counsel to advise it as needed. The College reserves the right to take disciplinary action a g a i n s t s t u d e n t s: 'c o n v i c t e d a n d felonies and serious misdemeanors off campus if it judges the person convicted to be a serious threat to persons on campus or to the conduct of college affairs. As it has been doing for the past five years, the College continues to study and revise its mode of governance. A special ~ommittee, of faculty members, students, nd staff will work in wnjunction with a ommittee of trustees this fall to move me or more steps further toward responsible sharing of authority and ..tccountability. Without prejudging tht.! recommendations of these committees, 1 suspect they will serve mainly (a) to increase the direct interaction of trustees with campus constituencies and (h) to provide some student representation. above committee level where it is now thoroughly achieved, at the highest administrative decision-making level for most, if not for till matters, affecting the College. . - ANNOUNCEMENTS· . . . ' •' . . . ' Students are reminded of the instructions on posters or other notices, as listed in the student handbook: \Notices of meetings or events must be posted only on the bulletin boards or designated areas throughout the campus. Posting on unauthorized areas will be a cause for removal of the notice and billing of the sponsoring group or individual if any damage has occurred. Notices must include the name of the sponsor.\ Maintenance personnel have been instructed to remove any signs on doors or other unauthorized places. Tryouts for the Mountebanks Fall Term production, Woyzeck, by George Buechner, will be held on Sunday and Monday nights, October 4 and 5 from 7 to 10 p.m. Sign up for a time slot on the list posted in Nott Memorial Theater. No previous experience necessary. Scripts available in the Green Room. All those interested in the Movement for a New Congress should sign up m Student Activities. Agaio this year, that little known, informai, arid unpretentiously fun institution known as Coffee-House graces Union College. llsually present on otherwise dead Friday nights, the entertainment (the time and place of which will be announced by poster) consists of scheduled performers and \any student who has a song to sing.\ In past y·ears, the entertainment has been mainly in the folk vein, with the influences of Dave Van Rook more pronounced than those of the Kingston Trio. The performers are usually area talents, veterans of local coffee houses or students. This year, name talents may augment the programs. The format has been changed slightly. From the next meeting on, the scheduled performers will play until approximately 10:30, when the uninvited guests will be given the stage. This will make it easier for those in the audience whose idea of entertainment may not involve listening to talent in the germinal stages. Tra n~porta I ion Committee i~ again scheduling huse~ to SUI'<Y Alhan~ an~i to Skidmore ~.o that Union :-tudcnb may contact other collc!!C students. The bus will lea\c S~turda~. Octoher 3 at 6:45 p.m. trom Memorial Chapel. It will go fir~\ to SUNY in Alhany and then to Skidmore. All studcnb who v.crc not photographed for the 1970-71 lD Cards at the held House should report to the Hale House Student Lounge tomorrow or Frida) (October 1 or 2) between I :00 and 5:00 p.m. Studenb must present a registration receipt card, in order to he photographed. All campus activities are urged to complete their budget forms in triplicate and return them to the Treasury Committee by Wednesday October 6. The forms may be placed in the Tax Committee's mailbox in the Student Activities office. Please include a telephone number at which some member or officer of your activity can be reached. If you have any questions regarding budget procedures, call Roy Wiese at 346-6071 .

PAGE 6 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. I, 1970 our contest is going to send three :more $tudents to college, And one ot rhose $-ttidents could be you. The contest simple ro enter, All you bav~ ro do is g1> to the Domestic~ Department in any of the stores listed .in this ad. Put· your name and address on one of ou.r balfots, And wait. Th~ contest runs from September 8 to Octooot' 3. * wr ALLACE'S, Schenectady

j ... . -· -. .· . . . ·.;:: ·, •.·:.· You Are What You Believe CO~CORDIE:\SIS. OCT. I. 1970 PAGE 7 By Alan Cohen In this world of desperat·ion and despair, there is one way I have of getting high and forgetting all the troubles for a while. It is a drink called Orange Julius which tastes like melted creamsicle and can be copped in Colony Center on Route 5. Other people somehow dislike it immensely. I don't mind that, but I do mind people who tell me that by using Orange Julius I am escaping reality. own lives on the New York Mets .. money. the academy awards. clocks and governments as they \face Ufl to reality.\ I wil'l acdept the nec(!ssity of facing up t·o reality, but instead of defining reality as '\what is.\ I call it '\what must be.\ Reality is that 1ife exists and needs certain essentials such as food. shelter. sleep and a few other maintemmce factors. From that point on, everything is fantasy:~ A quick example: Clocks are mechanisms around which we build our lives. Yet, they measure something that does not exist: hours, minutes and seconds. Try to define any of those words. We could just as well take the period of time a heartbeat takes and build a system of t~me on it. Institutionalized, non-thinking people have their \rules of reality\ so well defined for them that they never question them and don't often realize the rules exist. They call others unrealistic and try to enforce their rules on . others; lives, while centering their Dre.ams Overcome Rain Audience 1s · Nightmare By Peter Bickerman Dre.ams, managing to overc~e such obstacles as a rain delayf the oppressive heat, and a largely indifferent audience, eventually presented a strong displ;:ty of musicianship Saturday night in the Chapel. Before undertaking the unpleasant job of criticizing Facts About Class of '·74 UnL'On having joined the ever- increasing list of co-educational institutions·, welcomed on Sunday, the Class of '74, with its almost record 450 men and WOMEN. Applications. numbering 2434, were up 23% from last year, according tb Jasper Shupe, the newly appointed Director of Admissions, with the increase largely d·ue to the acceptance of women. The college received 484 applications from women in High Schools throughout the country; the increase in male applicants, {there were 90 more than last year) amounted to only 5%. Shupe said that of the 2434 applicants, 960 werw accepted. and 450 were enrolled on Sunday; of the 450, 126 were women and 324 were men. Center I rec-eived 216 enrollees, while Center II received 234; some 75% of the Class of '74 came from public schools, while only 25% were previously enrolled in private institutions; over 50% of the entering freshmen live in Newe York State; black students numbered 31. or 7% of the freshman class. certain folk, it is my intention to emphasize the major event of the evening, that being the success of the group. Dreams could be classified- as a second generation jazz-rock band; members of the group have played with such · notables as Blood, Sweat and Tears, Clear. Light, and Miles Davis. These eight men seem able to combine the best of both worlds: the polish that musicians can attain· onlv after hard experience (\dues-paying\), in addition to the vitality displayed by people who are professionally on the way up. The promo blurb stating that Dreams somehow \rivals\ Blood. Sweat and Tears is patently unfair, in that bands like Dreams, B, S and T, and Chicago each possess . .cl.istinct personalities even· though they all are into the rock- jazz- blues bag. While I want to avoid comparisons, it is useful to mention that Dreams has a dynamite vocalist named Edward 'Vernon, a man with a voice strong enough to be heard over the brass and versatile enough to stay on key. Another thing in its favor is that Dreams has- no fear of experimentation; hopefully they will not fall into that rut of repetition which victimizes many bands once success has made them smug. ~. One of the hassles Dreams faced after they moved their wet equipment into the Chapel was the virtual total absence of indoor practice time. (By the way, one wonders if the people responsible for presenting concerts here ever listen to weather forecasts). This lack of practice resulted in some lack of musical tightness, but that disappeared as the set continued. ·Howe\er, it is easy to take these imaginary periods of .time and use them to our advantage. so we do. Still. these measurements are not real, they are fantasi1ed. When so many people agree on a fantasv. it is a consensus fantasy; it is n~t reality. An economist wi!A tell you the same about money. His stock market and government are only big fantasies too. Go\ Linment is a case where man's fantasi1ing has enslaved him. A study of the history of governments will help us better understand their nature. In olden days there was anarch\', each man faced reality and li~ed his fantasy as he sa\\ fit. In one area of the planet, there was a man who spent his hours of fantasy standing on his · head. His neighbor enjoyed only knocking over people standing on their heads. A third man whose fantasy was. to make everyone happy. decided to solve the obvious conflict between the others by establishing a \house of controlled fantasy\ which expanded to include all the people of the area who were willing to compromise _their hours of fantasizing in order to maintain a certain amount of order. A \fantasy force\ was set up to deal with the problems after the house decided the course of action. The force included men whose fantasy consisted of wearing uniforms and acting manly. The house prospered. Eventually, however, a house in a neighboring land was torn b) civil strife. A small group that controlled the house and the house's force was persecuting those citizens whose fantasies were not involved with civic SOCIAL COMAf/TTf..\E SCIII:\l>l'I.E OCT. 16- Livingston Taylor ( Ph·flln'd ahm·e) Field llo~m' 8:30p.m .. $2.50, onlr 1300 sems ll'i/1 he sold ~~~~~~~~·( 111111/II:. OCT. 17- Hlcws Image-- Chapel~ H:30 fl./11 .. J._.JII OCT. 31- To he announced NOV. 7- Slw-Na-Na-CiratJc/ WEEKEND X:3() fl.l/1., $3.00. F·lf.l. NOV. 13- Jethro lid/ adl'ance; $4.50 at the door. Field 1/ouw N.-311 fl.lll . $3. 75 in Leaving the Dorm Womb off Campus Experience interest. Feeling that the fall of By Ray Krise Jr. !ann\ is still sleepin!! nut in the: one house might lead to others. Barefoot, I have just stepped stree.t. hcntuall:o.. mo>.t ol thL· the hard !'act remains that ~our (ev:entuaHy, their. own). the on a cockroach. lie came with people: I can think ol found leaders of the first house decided the house, along with about eight plan:~ at $1JO and up. ( \,P1hin~.· to enlarge their force to make it million of his brothers antl that with cost ol utilitiL\>. dllU effective, since most of the people sisters. The house also came you can find yoursL\If turnin_L! 1H.t of the second land opposed their with: no doors on the room~. the lights when you lea\\.' tilL· house's leaders, and sent the three electrical outlets for seven room. force to help the second house rooms, a smell in the kitchen like A~ide !rom ~carching lor maintain order. The leaders ·a dead moose stuffed with rotting exciting form~ ol animal lllc 1Hl decided to temporarily conscript cabhage, and an alley wintlm\ your floors and walls, the mn~t _ individuals from their fantasies conveniently located for fun thing ahout oiT-campu:-. ll\inf! (for their own interests). neighborhood kids to climh is watching your nL\if!hhor<. The man who stood on his througl1 and rip stuff ofT. Ah. the watching· you. Stick ~our head head all day absolutely refused to joys of off-campus living in out the window and watch till· give up his fantasy, no matter Schenectady. • . lady on the porch aero~:-. thL· how fair the rules of conscription l guess there s somethmg over street 4uickly avert her c~c'. were made. He claimed that he· three hundred of us livin!! niT- ·I urn your stereo up and listen tll had joined the house only carnf?US this year. ~)ue to the the locusb come knocking on because it permitted him to housmg pro~lem (hr there, old your door asking you to turn it continue his fantasy and also. his five-maq suttes), eV~J1 Arth~r dov.n. Turn your stereo do'\ n sympathy lay with the opposing could have gotten o~f_-campus rl antl enrich \ (;ut wm L'r,at ional side since his own fantasy had no he had wanted to. I he student style oy digging on the larntl~ c 1 v 1 c interest. Many others invasion of the. surrounding argument~ coming I rom nc.\.t refused conscription for the same Schenectady nergh ho rho o d :-. door and down stain. Increase reasons and the first house toQ brought two new words to the: your powers ol ohscr\ at ion h~ was in turmoil. Since then, vocabulary of the landlords: noticing what ne\\ thing~ \\1.'re history has often repeated itself \a~ults on~y.\ ~t was a phra~c stolen oil your car during th~· as each era has brought on new whtch was mvanahly followed h) prccedin!! night. lncrca~e ~our consensus fantasies. \no pets.\ It's comforting to paranoia by reminding ~ourself If I have any point at all. it is k~ow that I'm on the s~me lc\cl ho~N much easier it is to gL·t certainly not that 1 want you too With a German. Shepard; bu~ted outside ol old \Inion·, to become an Orange Juliu~ howev:r, when you :e all done ground~. Put Prot. (ira\ e•: addict. I only want to be left to ~utt~n~g about fas.ctst ptgs _and Organi1ational Ps)ch. cour:-.e to my own little fantasy. drscnmmatorv housmg practrces. practical use while arguing \\ ith ,1 The Admissions director added that of the 126 females accepted, 79 enrolled in Center I and 47 in Center It; the average College Board Scores for the freshmen were 606 . Verbal and 654 Mathematical and 71% of the members of the freshman class ranked in the top fifth of their graduating classes. The overall size of . the freshman class decreased from that of the Class of '73 which numbered 490. Mr. Shupe attributed this intentional decrease to general overcrowding and a nearly twofold increase in the number of transfer students enrolled, when compared with last year's figure. Another problem was the audience, which possessed a good deal of collective discourtesy It seemed as if many people were more involved with impressing their dates and throwing bull with friends than with listening to the music. The constant buzz of conversation was particularly annoying if one accepts the premise that had there been a better publicized but inferior group here instead (say, Grand Funk Railroad) the audience probably would have been more attentive. In all fairness. though, it is true that many people started listening harder as the obvious class of the group sank in. Diamond Star Dale Long Slugs In Summer Circuit drunk. enraged landlord \\ ho h,t;. ju~t hur~t in to demand the rL·nt while vou're ~itting m the bathtub. Okav then. whv hother to li\c oiP H~~ause it's ~n education. a maturing proces~. You're on ~om own literallv. a~ the ~ch(hll administration has yet to dl~\ i~e an cffecti\e method of communicating with ~off-campus· students. You have to tak~ nut your own garbage. You make vour own food and \\ash ~our ~wn dishes. You learn hm~ to get alrng with people who\e ne\~r heard of Kurt \'onn~gut or Fi!lhugh l.udlo\\e. because they\e been too husy trying to stay alive. I guess it':; the antithesis of the i\or:y tm\er concept of a school. which alone is enough to make off-campus living a good thing. Who the hell ever wanted to rent an i\ ory The Admissions Office, has two new members for the academic year 1970-71. With the addition of Leroy Moore and Peter J. Logan Union has one of the youngest admissions staffs in the country. Shupe feels that the stafrs relative inexperience in admissions work will be offset by its enthusiasm and interest in the college <tnd its · prospective students~ I am not trying to impose mass guilt upon everyone who was at the Chapel Saturday night, but those of us who are music freaks deserve more consideration from those who merely want to make the scene. For those interested, the first breams album, on Columbia Records, should be available in a couple weeks. Union baseball star Dale Long, Jr. added to his list of impressive credentials this summer while playing for the Schaffer Brewers in the Albany Twilight League. The son of former major leaguer. Date Long Sr., finished fourth in the league in batting with a .330 average and led the circuit in hits with 27, runs (23) and R. B. I.'s with 34. In the post-season Stan M usia! Amateur Baseball League Tournament. Long Jr. was named to the all-Tournament team for his performance. Playing shortstop and pitching last spring, his junior year at Union, Long Jr. hit at a .430 clip and was selected as Collegiate Player of the Year in the capital district, as well as heirtg named to the Topps Hubble Gum All- America team. He has been contacted by many major league scout~. including representatives from the New York Yankees, Pittsburgh Pirates, and Milwaukee Brewers. NOTICE There will be a get-together for philosophy majors. facult.y and friends of the department Thursday evening at 8:00 in the home of Professor Ludwig. 1662 Randolph Road. tower?

PAGE 8 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. I. 1970 Concordy Sports Defense Excels As Gridders Upset tarries By Mark Shugoll Hanging conspicuously on the football locker room bulletin bmard is Coach George Flood's \Lucky Thirteen\ list, a compilation of the Garnet's defensive goals for 1970. It was the perfect execution of goal number three, prevention of scores versus the goal line defense, that helped Union win its second straight football game without a loss on Saturday, 12-3 1 over St. Lawrence. The stubborn Garnet defeAse cut off the Larrie running game and stalled the Upstaters five times on drives inside the Union twenty-yard line. St. Lawrence accounted for aU the scoring in the first half when Don McKelcan booted a 31-yard field goal midway through the opening session. The Larries recovered a Union fumble later in the period, and drove to the Garnet two-yard line, only to see safety Paul Ramsey come up with a Hank Coffen fumble. After a Union punt, the Larries again drove into Dutchmen territory, but ran out of downs on . the 17-yard line when Ramsey stopped Coffen on a big fourth and one play. St. Lawrence bounced right back, taking the opening kickoff On Today's Scene with Bill Holleran Now that the Garnet football team has emerged as a potent force after its first two games of the season and shown promise for garnering its second winning season in three years, the fall sports scene at Union now looks for once like it could very well boast three quality teams. In past years all three fall varsity squads ·- football, soccer, and cross-country--were horrendous. Until last season the cross-country team hadn't enjoyed a winning slate since 1959 and had even failed to win a match over a four-year span. The varsity boosters were even worse, failing to post a victorious record since 1958. The gridders were little better, stumbling to a 1-6-1 mark in 1966 before rallying to fashion a strong record of 11-5 in '67-'68. Last year the gridders returned to their losing ways after a- year hiatus. crumbling to 3-6, while both the harriers and the booters improvc:;_d tremendously. The cross-country squad literally ran the opposition ragged en route to a strong 5-2 season under Coach Ron Coleman. Although the soccer team did not post .a winning mark, they played their way to a fine 5-5-1 log. Included among the boaters' five triumphs were a stunning 1-0 upset of NCAA tourney-bound RPI and a 3-3 deadlock against Eeastern power Trinity. This autumn the booters and the thinclads should enjoy improved seasons. First-year coach Bob McMurray welcomes seven returning lettermen and 15 quality sophomores in hopes of improving on last fall's break-even mark. Leading the veterans on the forward line will be I 969 leading goal-scorer Pierre Roumain, while senior Chris Swan, defending point-scoring champ and potential All-American; returns to lead the halfbacks. Fullback Walt Witholt, who anchored a tough corps of defenders on the frosh squad last year, will be a key performer on the defense. Asked about his team's prospects for Union's first winning soccer season in 12 years. McMurray commented, \We have a very young team but should have a winning season if we get past the first four matches breaking even.\ That task will be no easy one as the Dutchmen must battle perennial powers Trinity. Kings Point. and RPI before the season is five weeks: old. A \eteran harrier s4uad lead by junior Bryant Moeckel plus a host of freshmen boasting enviable high school credentials lead mentor Coleman to expect improvement upon last fall's 5- 2 mark. Junior Paul Forbes. last year's co-captain along with Moeckel. senior Joe Burgess. soph Tim M~Cabe and Dave Rice all ran well in I 969 and are expected to improve this season. Impressive frosh include Bob Nesbitt. who ran a 4:26 mile in high school (a scant four seconds off the Union record) and Ed Wagner. who strided to a 9:48 two-mile clocking last Oct. 7 10 14 17 21 24 21 31 Nov. 3 5 SOCCER CROSS COUNTRY Trinity Kings Point at Hamilton RPI 3 p.m. Oct. 10 at Trinity noon 2:30 p.m. 1.3 at Hobart, 3 p.m. 3 p.m. noon at Hobart 2:30p.m. Rochester 2 p.m. at Colgate 3:30 p.m. Middlebury 2 p.m. at Hartfo~ 2 p.m. at Albany State 3 p.rr .. St. Bonaventu 17 RPI 20 Middlebury 24 at Hamilton 26 at Siena 28 at Oneonta \/ov. 7 State Meet At Buffalo 2 p.m. 2:30p.m. 2 p.m. 3:30p.m. 4 p.m. of the second half and driving 69 yards to the Union four before the Garnet defense again stiffened and took over. The Dutchmen finally showed some offensive muscle when John Swanko burst through the Larrie line and sprinted 70 yards ·efore being pulled down on the Garnet ten. A clipping .penalty brought Union back to the 25, but Larry Sykes made up the yardage three plays later on a twelve-yard scoring run to give Union a 6-3 lead; On the ensuing kickoff, Rich Jaszczak came away with another Coffen fumble, putting the Garnet back in business on the St. Lawrence 18. Running back Curtis Rowe, who gained 64 yards for his afterno0n's work, then carried three times before John Swanko slammed the remaining two yards for the six pointer and the 12-3 margin of victory. One of the more pleasant surprises coming out of the Garnet win was the discpvery of Jim Niver as. a punter. The junior defensive end punted four times ·for a superb 44.3 yard average, including a booming 56 yarder. ·.···--·· If Niv,er can become consistent, he could strengthen one o.f the weaker aspects ef the Union game. The Garnet are already blessed with a capable kicking game in the person .of Bob Mitchell. Once again it was the defense that spearheaded Union's Saturday afternoon win. The front four, led ·by Charlie Weekes and Tom Duffy, would not let the Larries establish an effective running game. The secondary contributed two intercepti<:ms, one each by Don LeBart and Pete Keller, and key plays by Ramsey and Steve French. The Ga:rnet's chief problett:l so far this fall is turning out to be its sophomore laden offense. The unit has put far too much pressure on the defense, forceing them to remain on the field for a disproportionate length of time. The coaching staff can only hope that early season assignment and execution mistake.s will be overcome with added e~perience. Coach George Flood is definitely happy with his teams twb wins, the first time that Union has · opened with consecutive victories in Flood's .seven years at the school, but is not one hundred per cent pleased. the head coach is the first to admit to the problem spots in the Garnet eleven, but is equally q.uick in attributing them to inexperience, tJnion should receive a. strong test again this Saturday in a home contest against Alfred. The Saxons come to Schenectady with perhaps the finest small college quarterback in New York State in Jim MorettL Last year the signal caller earned E.C.A.C. Sophomore-Of- The-Year honors as he led his team to a 5-3 season. Moretti put the football in the air 43 times a,gainst Union a year ag6, but his team fell to the Garnet 10-7. Alfred also boasts two outstanding receivers in CMrles Young and Bob Rodgers. The Saxons are a tough balJ club with the potential to score quickly and frequently, rolling Up 44 points last weekend while beating R.P.l. The visitors should provide a stern test for the Garnet secondary, a group whose performance has been somewhat overshadowed by that of the rushing defense. Beware the Body Shirt Snatche.r! You're fair game when you wear a Van Heusen Body Shirt. Man, you'll just have to keep your shirt on! 'Cause if it's ·th.e new Van Heusen Body Shirt, you'll want to enjoy those .physique-flattering lines for yourself. Your torso is even more so in the world's best fitting body shirt. In a terrific selection- of bold stripes and solids, with the newest ·long point collar and 2·button cuffs. PRIZ~S! Two big ones! Two round-trip flights via SAS SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES to Copenhagen and Majorca for a swing· ing, expense·paid CLUB 33 vacation! PJus a box of Van Heusen Body Shirts for each of 25 runner-up entries. Easy to enter: just create your own slogans for our 13ody Shirt ad~ Send entries to College .Contest, VAN HEUSEN, 417 Fifth Avenue, New York; New York 10016. Contest void where prohibited by law. FLY SAS SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES jets to wonderful Copenhagen and Club 33 headquarters, then on to Majorca for two sensational wee.ks with your new friends and fellow swingers! VAN HEUSEN®417 Body Shirt

.. but is cent is the but is strong in a The small York caller his put times his 10-7. two ball score ng up while for been that '. • • ... Founded at Union College 1877 VOLUME 100 NUMBER 3 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER6, 1970 PR~CE TWENTY CENTS Stu:dents Act F:or Academic Reform Calend:ar Switch In For Consortium Former Phi Ep .. fraternity ·May Becom·e .Campus Club By David Conti \more socially rele>vant work\ where student groups may find a headquarters and where a reborn \Strike Central\ might be housed. By Tom Mitchell Committees on college government and student standing, discussions about a possible calendar change and guipelines for proficiency exams were the main topics considered at a Division I Faculty meeting yesterdayafteraoon. · · The committee on college government will suggest new ways to introduce student representation and faculty parttcipation to college administration. Included on this committee headed by Professor Gati are: Professors Huntley, Sharlet, Gado and Ketchum, representing their respective divisions; eight students, \gi>ving them twice as much clout\ as the ' teachers; three deans; ana two non-professional members whose purpose \was not quite clearly understood\ lzy Professor Gado. Gado also announced that sub- committees, reporting on present structures and their inadequacies and new models of college government, had been established. Professor Murphy Phi Epsilon Pi, once one ~f Union's sixteen National fraternities, no longey exists on campus. Phi Ep fraternities across the nation have been taken over by ZBJ, but the merger was rejected by the Union Chapter and the building that housed the national fn~:ternity is now simply known as \ 1247\ a nebulous organization without an approved constitution or The group plans no (ormal rush, no formal invitations and no calls to prospective members in the Freshman class. The house will 'be open a:ll year long for anyone who wants to inquire ot become a member. This week, a complimentary lunch has been planl).ed for the faculty. .. later added that this committee bylaws. · · According to ·Glen Grossman, one of the creators -of \ l247\ a plan was formulated whereby the buildhig would be donate4 t<L tb.e · College and d\en rented back t0 the club. The arrangement wolild be similar to that existing between the four . fraternities housed in Raymond and Potter Houses on Lenox Road, whereby the College takes care of maintenance and upkeep on the buildings. The major difference would be tha.t the club would have complete control of the facilities, but Fred Mindlin, president of \ I 247\ stated that the college flatly refused to . accept the idea. A great amount of persuasion was needed in the battle to drop national fraternity affiliation, with the gn;atest opposition coming from- ~the Senior Cla-ss members who graduated this past June. The group now boasts 40 members (a small number compared to Phi Ep of former days), and less than half the space in the dining room is now needed to seat the members .. Fifteen men ~ft Phi Ep last spring, but Grossman stated that their reasons for quitting could in no way be attributed to the proposed dropping of national fraternity status. ·would present an opportunity for teachers \to express themselves on the government of institutions\ indicati11g a need to eXcpress these views. The faculty members then approved to the Committee on Standing of Students a resolution to compile Dean's List once, at the conclusion of the academic year, rather than three times a year. Following this, the faculty discussed the possibility of changing Union's academic calendar. The main purpose of a change would be to put Union in phase with other area colleges. Advocates for a change indicated that this consortium The building is owned by an Alumni Association and was rented to Phi Ep and now to 1247. The Association will meet sometime during · Homecoming Weekend to decide Bicycle Race Next Sunday Speed of Great Importance the fate of the structure from- Plans are now well underway several options. The Alumni may for the first annual \Tour de decide to keep the building and Union,\ a bicycle race around the let the tenants continue in any Union College Campus. course they may wish· to but the The race which will take place cost of maintaining the building on Sunday, October 18, at 1:00 would be a major problem p.m. is open to all resulting from such a decision. students, faculty and The building could be sold to administration members who are another national fraternity (DU able to organize a four-man team is already interested) or they and obtain a minimum- of two could decide to simply donate it bicycles. to the College. 1 Coordinators of the race, Ned The c1ub, if approved by the · van Woert Stu Lazarus and Paul Senate, at its next meetin~, will Ramsey h~ve outlined a tenuous be open to. memb~rshtp . by course for the cyclists to follow. anyone assoctated with .. Umon The race will begin at the Main ~ollege. None of the traditions ?f Gate. Contestants will cycle ntual usually found In toward Nott Memorial and take fraternities will exist in the new a left turn on the road that leads club; one may ele.ct to ta~e meals West past Hale House. The race t?ere •. attend soctal funct10ns,. or continues with a right turn onto live m the h?use; ~ steer~ng the sidewalk past the flagpole committee will duect the and completely across. Library organization. Field and another right past the Grossman said, \We have a Psychology and Physics building house, and we want to use it for and into the parking lot behind the whole school.\ He envisions Carnegie Hall. The riders will the club as a place where then continue up the hill past the members of the College New Engineering Center and community can .meet right onto the road which travels comfortably; seminars scheduled, hetween·the Gym and the FotbaH interesting speakers presented, Field. and discussions held. Grossman Cyclists will make another hopes that the strength of the right piist the gym and work their organization will_ be directed to way into the Gym parking lot and down the narrow sidewalk past the idol; they will head around the tennis courts and down the little ramp near the Humanities Building. Each rider on the four-man team will ride five laps. According to van Woert, there will be handicaps to compensate for the type of bicycles used by each team. Teams with bicycles that do not shift, will ride only 18 laps as opposed to the regular 20. ln addition, teams entering with four girls will only be required to ride 17 laps. So far, ten teams have registered with the coordinators who hope for an ultimate number of twenty groups. The History Department, the coaches and the Campus Police are planning to enter teams in the race. Van Woert urges that anyone interested in entering a team contact him at 346-6782 or Paul Ramsey at 346-9776, because it is necessary to have a number and counter · for each team. He explained that teams arriving to enroll at the time of the race could not be included. Deadline for entries is this Friday, October 9. 1 hese exams would be taken for credit on a pass/ fail basis. in 18 different courses. Among the problems dealing with this resolution is the possibility of its indiscri~inate use by students. requiring professors to make up an exam for every student who requested one. However. no guidelines were established at this meeting. would offer a greater variety of courses to students and would increase .their social interaction (since stude.nts varying in academic ability would be mixed together). Finally. guidelines for a resolution passed last year. declaring that students in good standing are allowed to apply for profiency exams were discussed. Thematics Majors Begin Dynamic New Approach By Burgess Brier One of the few positive results of this spring's rather- confused events was the final establishment of thematic majors and proficiency exams as parts of the Union educational system. While not all agree, most faculty members are very high in their praise for the hew programs. James Palmer, Dean of the Center for Science and Engineering said. \(These arc) two developments at Union so deeply significant that recognition of their impact will be a long time corning.'' Proficiency exams. while open to all students, are particularly designed for those students with some particular outside interests or experiences giVIng them knowledge approximating that to be derived from an established course or courses at Union College. These exams. when satisfactorily completed will represent satisfactory completion of the courses attempted, and credit will he given as appropriate. Thematic majors arc a direct result of the student's demand for more say in the control of his curriculum. This program is centered around the concept that a student who desires to concentrate hill or her undergraduate studies relating to a particular theme should be permitted to do so. The requirements are few. First the Noted conservationist Frank Graham, will speak in SS 016, Tuesday, Oct. 6, at 8:00p.m. 'Graham's address is entitled \Ecology: Our Road to · Survival\. Graham became known in conservation circles for his investigation of stripmining abuses in Pennsylvania in the early 1960's. His book DISASTER BY DEFAULT, published in 1966, is a study of the pollution of our waters. As a result of the book he received a grant from the Rachael Carson Memorial Fund to study the effects of pesticides, which l~d to his second book, SINCE THE SILENT SPRING. Graham is fleld editor of \Audubon Magazine\ and a frequent contributor on conservation topics to magazines such as the \New Republic\ \American . Heritage\ and ''Sports Illustrated.\ I student must convince a member of the faculty (of the student's own choice) of the validity of his organi7ing there. This faculty member will then become the student's advisor. and together they will map out a program of at least 2 co.urses (excluding · Comp. Ed, which will still be required to take) designed to give the ·student a level of .competc.nce in his chosen field roughly commensurate with that of his peers holding more conventional bachelor's degrees. The stude-nt and his advisor must then convince the dea.n of the Center under whose jurisdiction the student's theme logically falls. Both Dean Martin Lichterman. Dean of the Center for Humanities and Social Sciences. and Dean Palmer have stressed their willingness to consider any student who comes to them with a serious, well t-hought out program about ;tlmost any relevant topic. Says Dean Lichterman. \This prot,'iam is restricted only by the imagination or the student. .. This, the first of a three part series, will he followed hy the individual views and s.uggestions of an assortment of faculty members from the Centers I and 11. Class Rati.ngs To Reappear Linebacker, Union's student course evaluations manual will he under the new leadership of Art Riccio, with Mr. Richard Daniels serving as F-aculty Advisor. Not published last spring due to the campus turmoil. Linebacker will conduct three surveys (Fall, Winter, an.d Spring) with few, if any, drastic changes. However. Riccio and his staff would like the booklet to become more worthwhile and meaningful to students and faculty. Thus, while its objectivity must be retained, Linebacker's questions and format may change, and attempts will be made to increase the relevancy of its evaluations. In addition, history tapes will be purchased to record aU previous data accumulated by the surveys. Riccio has also announced that he is seeking hew members, those with and without a background in computer science, to assist in running the Linebacker. If interested, please call 346-9227.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 6, 1970 . Educatlon project Although the response to our call for anyone interested in working to change the educational system was disappointingly small, a project which was begun last year and may bear fruit this Winter is an excellent jump <?ff point for those unwilling to question the establishment, but interested in alternative education. If enough support is generated the \project in communal living\ promises to be a unique educational experience for those who participate as well as the rest of the college. While working within the framework of academe, receiving credit and some sort of grades, the chosen students will have the opportunity to examine the dynamic interrelationships among persons in such a situation, to work individually on a chosen project related· to a group theme, and most important, report on the worth, if any, of such a project. We strongly endorse the project and hope that enough all-college support will be forthcoming to allow it to happen. Don't Look, Butt. • • Although the back door of the West College Dining Fortress is commendably guarded, there\seems to be a front-end leak. Depending on the disposition of the checkers who avert their e'yes, people and groups walk around the partition and butt in line in front of students who have waited their turn. It seems to us that the situation could be easily remedied. If responsible people cannot be found, perhaps a turnstile .system could be installed which would probably pay for itself in increased revenues and eased tensions. ~fa~~ ,:S--;~~~------ <llnnrnr 0.\~~ llirnsi!i ~li\t'1 ... < ....... '/> Published T u e s d a. y and Friday during the School year by the Stulent Body of Union College, Schenec· tady, N.Y. National Adver· tis ing Re.pr e sent ative National Educational AdverUsing Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- sentative, 360 Lexington Avenue, lf.Y.C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College Publication Office, The World Publica- tioas, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady Post Ofrtee as Seqond Class Mail Matter Subscription 20 cems a copy. 816 a year delivered anywhere. in the United );tates. Peter J. Weingold-: Editor-in-Chief Candidate Reporters: Burf{ess Brier. David Conti, Tom Mit<·he/1, Joseph Achenhaum, Harris Samuels, Nina Wo!ff. Barhara McDonald. Brenda Kaplan, Anne Gemmell, Ahhy Schut=er. Michael Golder. Krise, In Letter: Responds To the Editor: As I prefer to use my column for better things, I wonder if I might use up a few inches of Letters space to correct a couple of inaccuracies in Mike Messerole's piece of October I. First, as I have known Dana and Sandy longer than Mike has (i.e., four years vs. not at all), I think I can say that they have never gone to bed with .. everyone in sight.\ Being intelligent people, they realized the value of getting to know all potential marriage- partners completely before any There will be a meeting regarding the Communal Living Project on Wednesday, October 8, at 7:00 p.m. in the Hale House Student Lounge. The organizers of the project propose that a group of ten or more students and one faculty member join and live together during the Winter Term of 1970-1971. This community would be, to the greatest possible extent, separate from the rest of the College Community. The plan would be included in the Comprehensive Education program, if the proposals ·Of organizers, Mark Coven and Phil Galdston are approved. Students participating in the plan would receive two credits for Comprehensive Education Project and one for an Independent Study. lasting arrangements were made. As I'm sure Mike has discovered from personal experience, just because a lady bails doesn't mean she'll go down for everyone. Second, I would submit that it is easier to \right injustice': from outside a jail cell than it is while scratching off the days on cement walls. Tim wanted freedom. The government wanted Tim. Canada offered freedom. Which was the intelligent choice? Third, although I dislike admitting it, I'm beginning to lose patience with my brothers and sisters who continue their Yahoo-like yammerings for \Middle of the Road extremism.\ Middle of the road's where we're at right now, gang--where we've been for a good bloody long time. American politics has been operating on appealing to the lowest common denominator; the greatest good for the greatest number. Middle of the road has brought tis the rape of the countryside, Vietnam, poison gas in the ocean, a flag on the moon, an incredible increase in leftist bombings, an increasingly imminent Black revolution, pay toilets, and the 1971 television season. Middle of the road says \let's study the issue,\ while your body tells you you're choking to death. In the face of the destruction of life as we I once knew it, redoubling of efforts into the philosophy which mediocred us into the mess in the first place-- Middle of the Road-- seems a rather sophomoric thesis. ;. •------------- All power to the People, Ray Krise, Jr.; '71 Meserole on By Mike Meserole Hey, wait a minute, where the hell is Ron Swoboda? How come I haven't seen Nancy Seaver lately? While we're at it, just who are those guys in the red legs and those jokt;!rs in the groovy pullover pajamas and wb;at in the name of Judge Landis are they ·doing in the National League Play~offs? Break it to me easy; where'd Mrs. Payson go, and the derby-topped sign-maker, where's. he? Damntit,. where are the Mets?! Wha? Oh yeah, that's r,ight, they got themselves eliminated in Pittsburgh. Shucks, I guess that means there won't be a parade, huh? Ninteen sixty-nine: S.R.O. in ecstasy at the Big Shea; Seaver and Koos and pass the booze; Agee in the outfield; Ron, Bud, Weis, Clean and Clendenen; Hodges and shoe polish; and Gaspar and Mayor John and champagne hair tonic. the New York Mets were the only way we could get out of the 1960's alive -unless your name was Mario Procaccino. Maybe now that they've lost their chance to repeat as world champions, we can sit back and really enjoy last year. So, that leaves us with what? Well, Earl Weaver and the Baltimore Orioles are back for another crack at the Series' winners' share, The Orioles haven't changed much, Weaver hasn't that much is for sure. In the second game of the American League Play- offs against he Twins, he beefed that Minnesota reliever Ron Perranoski had pine tar on his pitching digits. ••J don't blame him for trying to cheat,\ said Weaver, adding . . . .• insult to injury, . ••but when you get caught, you get caught!' \Get that little wise guy away from me,\ snapped Perranoski. It also leaves· us with Cincinnati and the much-heralded Big Red Machine. Power? Sure, but. good gravy, that pitching is something else. Their four best throwers; Nolan, Simpson, Gullett, and Wilcox have a. combined age under t;!ighty-five. And c~tcher Johnny Bench, who led the majors ,in homers, rbi's and television advertisements, is only .22 .. Pass the Wheaties, please. If the Reds played at Fenway Park, 1 could love them. But they live in that mathematica4' monstro$ity called Riverfront Stadium, with that Commtmist-inspired (Cincinnati REDS - think about it) wall-to-wan Astro-tun, which is an obvious attempt to undennine the National Pastime. Whe:re is the bunting game on that stuff? Come to think of it, how .can any self~respecting, raving . maniac fap. run onto the field and. snatch up a patch of synthetic grass with anything short of a laser beam? I guess that's what is missing from last year -the madcap craziness of Metsville. Neither in Baltimore, Minnesota, Pittsburgh, or cincinnati was there a sellout c:r:owd in the past week. Is Baseball dyiQg?: Don't believe. ft. The Mets SJ>.Oiled us last autumn, they gave, us everything we wanted, and everything they had, and more. They drained all the emotion and disbelief out of us and now that they've disappeared we're left with \the little wise guf' and Riverfront Stadium. Hey, Swoboda ... wait up for me! The Ll!fe And~ Death Of lanls ~opl:ln: . ' . A Tl~nely End To A ·ayg4tne Era! By Thomas Morante and Peter Dickerman \And it felt like a ball and· possessed but a transitory magic chain ... \ Perhaps it was the end rather than a pe,rmanent of an era, or an idication that the brilliance. Her final two albums era had already faded into the displayed signs of mellowing in past. The throaty, piercing voice characteF. with a more that projected Janis Joplin from traditional brass base as obscurity to the pinnacle of the opposed to an electronic rock world has been stilled background. One can only forever. hypothesize as to her ultimate In her own individualistic life musical direction. style, she managed to symbolize Joplin grabbed for life and youth's searching for a new way everything in it, acting in a sense to live, in a sense a utopian as a child in a toy store. Her existence devoid of the hassles public life was her private life, in that previous generations had that she left herself open to been forced to endure. She created her new life amidst the psychedelia of the San Francisco counter-culture during the rriid 1960's and became one of many struggling muscians and vocalists. In order to earn a living, Joplin submitted to the uncharacteristic role of studio backup work. She became part of the rock star syndrome wheq she joined an unknown local band, Big Brother and the H0lding Company. Their first album did nothing but continue the group's obscurity; \Cheap Thrills\ the second offering, catapulted Janis Joplin (with Big Brother) to national fame, and the bread now came easier. But several different ego trips destroyed the group's cohesion, and Janis became the individual star, acclaimed by critics as the best \blue-eyed soul\ artist of the last decade. More than the raspy quality in her voice, Joplin radiated a presence on stage, a dominance over both musicians and audi~ce. Her performing ability was so great that it could produce . emotions ranging from the highest ecstasy to the lowest despair, and transformed the audience from passive onlookers to uninhibited participants. Joplin moved from one group to another, firtding that none could satisfy the drivipg force · that she demanded. There were whispers that the-glow had begun to fade, that Joplin had IN RES l DEN.C£ exposure and hence to pain. Her material success led her to accept and later to depend upon aspects of society that sometimes nm counter to her simple philosophy of life. This dependenc~ involved both the mental and physical realms and it was essentially this that killed her. Her death symbolized both the strivings and the failures of a generation searching for internal peace within a traumatic, frenetic culture, a way of life which often celebrates death rather than life. tl h g ti \ Q a g n h \l a 1 n 8 \ v r l l c s r j p 3 p n I< h 1 \\ h n 'r b n tl tl K n I< n Sl rc I! II 1 \\ }: 1 u a c v. a:

the . IS .. er pt h d e • • • • Krise on the Vineyard A Brave, New World By Ray Krise Jr. Sometimes it's soothi11g to think of good times and places. I have been lucky, for Jesus has given me many of both. Such a timef'place was I is Martha's Vineyard. Martha's Vineyard is an island 0 ff the shore of Cape Cod. If you approach it by air, it l<?oks like a green sheepskin with ,_ a few narrow lines and three ;,9r four .larger spots shaved .out \if)f the wool. The narrow lines are·-;roads and the larger spots are t~~ns. The wool is tree-tops. I hav~ yet to see Ireland, but it is going'to have to go some if it is ·to ~be more green than the Vineyard. The Vineyard is a tourist island. Its summe:r population is 40,000. Six thousand people live there in the winter. It is very much like Boston (:Which is about 80 miles away) in that jt has two very definite, outstanding classes -- the wealthy white tourists who've been going there for millenia, and the kids. The good Summer Folk are getting rather uptight abo1,1t the \transients\ as the Vineyard Ga,zette calls us), and lots .of peo.ple. get busted. The Vineyard provides a perfect comparison between the dying a11d emerging cultures: it · is sitti11g on the front porch in a rocker and hunting through gift shops against swimming in the There will be an Open Cocktail Party at Skidmore .College this Saturday night at 6:45. The party will take place in Barrett Center and admission is $1.00 per person or $1.50 per couple. Everyone is welcome to attend the party which precedes the Melanie concert there at 8:30, it: * * * Senior Yearbook portraits will be taken October l 9 through 23. Seniors may sign up at Student Activities. The portrait fee is $3~00. * * * * Santana will appear in concert this Friday night October 9, at 8:00 p.m. in the RPI Field House in Troy. waves and m~king love on the beaches. The day my body becomes tao unresponsive for these latter is the day I follow Papa Hemingway. But I'm· beginning to .sound political, and one cannot be political when discussing the Vineyard. How can Nature be political? The be11t place to stay on the island is Oal< Bluffs, which is also the poorest section. Oak Bluffs is the kind of Cape Cod the movies always try to portray but never manage to pull off because they always forget and use new paint on everything. Oak Bluffs is like a piece of driftwood. lt is weather-beaten and old and · certainly not symmetrical, but that only makes it the more beautiful aud interesting. And if you're gonna stay in Oak Bluffs, you can find a home (l:t 55 Pequeot A venue ~ just ask any freak you see how to get there. It's on a' street that has a tittle park running down the center of it, and the ocean is two blocks from your front door. It will cost . you $3.50 a night for a bed, or $1.50 a night for the floor, and the tall blonde lady Who will take 'your money is named- Elain,e. You will have anywhere between l 5 and 30 other boys and girls to play with, you wiJ.l not be crowded, and you wili have a · great time. Yes, of course the VineyaFd holds special memories for me ~ Gay Head, and a gir:. There's always a girl when I'm traveling. the girl, like all of my very best things, is personal and if l ever write about her it will only be in fiction. But I will share Gay Head with you. Gay Head is a stretch of white, white beach (decorated with brilliantly- colored Seaweed, sea sheHs, and smooth rocks) and rect, blue, yellow and manilla natural clay cliffs, all topped off by an icing of green, green shnibs and a birthday c~rtdle of a lighthouse. Jt~st off the shore of Gay Head ·.are· large sandstone boulders that have been worn smooth by the sea. It is a completely puJ.?lic beach, and there are no beer cans or candy wrappers in the sand. Perhaps the music of the Vineyard tells more about it than any other aspect I can write down, Crosby Stills Nash & Young, Joni Mitchell, James Taylor of course (he lives on the Vineyar.d and his sister owns the record shop in Oak Bluffs) - Led Zeppelin or Hendrix seems out of place, It is a place where an hour spent sitting under a tree seems only a moment, and it is a place where one wakes up eagerly with each new morning. Please go to Martha's Vineyard. lt iF beautiful. The Coffee House swings back SUNY-Albany, will address a into action this Saturday, meeting of the Gay Liberation Qctober 10 at 8:30 in Nott Front of the Tri Cities Area on Memorial. The entertainment Saturday, October 10, at 8:00 this week will · feature Karen p.m. Anderson, Eric \Whale\ The meeting will be held in Chers0n, and Barbara Michela. Albany, at the Unitarian Church, Admission is $ .00 and,- as. 405 Washington Avenue. usual, free coffee and cider will Humphreys is a recognized be served. authority on the homosexual sub- Anyone interested in playing in. culture and a frequent speaker at the Coffee House, please leave national conventions. His interest your name and address with Mrs. in the field grew out of his work Marra in the Student Activities as an Episcopal priest and Office. campus chaplain. He is the * * * * author of The Tea Room Trade,. Dr. Laud Humphreys, a member of the faculty of the School of Criminal Justice at Impersonal Sex in Public Places. * * * * The Capital Area Peace Kirk to Play Jazz Here Center, the Peace Institute of SUNY-Albany and the Newman Association of SUNY are sponsoring the visit of Mr. Uri Avnery, a member of the Israeli Knesset. Avnery will speak at the The Social Committee will present Roland Kirk Sat., Oct. 31 in· Memorial Chapel at 8:30 P.M. Students will be· able to meet, talk to, and work with Kirk in a special workshop to be held at 4:30 in SS016 on Oct. 31. Tickets for the concert, which will follow the Williams home game, will cost $2.00. Composer, innovator and versatile instrumentalist Kirk is a manofmusicianshipand wit who ~nspires a spirit of love and beauty through his sensitivity to mood and the honest excitement that he generates. \Down Beat,\ the national jazz magazine, labels Kirk as , a performer who represents the true spirit of jazz. Kirk plays bass flute, clarinet, manzello, stritch and several saxophones. The Roland Kirk concert will round out a schedule that includes Livingston Taylor, Blues Image, Sha Na Na, and Jethro Tull. The Livingston Taylor concert will be presented irt the Field House on Friday, October There will be some seats 16th, because the Chapel is in 1 avaifable. use that night. However, to try Tickets are now on sale for and recapture the spirit of a both Livingston Taylor and chapel concert only 300 tickets Blues Image in the Student will be sold and students are · Activities Office only. Tickets are asked to bring blankets te sit on. $2.50. State University Uptown Campus, Academic Podium, Lecture Center 18. His revolutionary approach to peace in the Middle East is no less controversial here than it is in Tel Aviv. As a member of Parliament,. he represents a young, articulate segment of Israel that reminds the world that \Palestine was not an empty country before the declaration of a Jewish State.\ * * * * Anyone, especially freshmen, interested in serving on the food committee, please leave your name at Dean Bryant's office. The food committee is designed to handle any gripes concerning the cafeteria food service. * * * * The Social Committee has announced its policy in regard to the selling of its homecoming · weekend concerts. Tickets may be obtained Monday through Friday in the Students Activities Office, beginning today. Remaining tickets, if a~y. will be sold through dorm representatives the two days preceding the concert. Students are advised to buy tickets early as seating is limited. Tickets are $2.50 per ticket for both concerts. CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 6, 1970 PAGE 3 ~Upward Bound Anyone who would like to channel some time and energy into constructive activity where efforts will be quickly rewarded by self-.satisfaction should take some time o·ut from academics and walk over to the old public library at the corner of Seward Place and Union Street. On the third floor you will find the Upwaud Bound office and several people who will be delighted to put you to work for as many or as few hours per week as you can spare. At Union, Upward Bound runs a program including about fifty- five high school students in an attempt to help them gain acade.mic skills needed for college. A summer program on the college grounds is followed up by a program of tutoring and workshops during the school year. The Upward Bound program is often confused with the Big Brother and Sister program, which was originated out of the Upward Bound office several years ago and has since become a student sponsored activity. The Big Bmther Program includes children of elementary and junior high school ages. As well, the Academic Opp ort unities Program, formerly Project Hope, has a summer program for college students, but does not have follow-up activities. All of the people you will help need and want you. You need only the desire to help in tutoring, being a big brother or sister or conducting a workshop in any number of areas. Draft Counseling Any person interested tn becoming a draft counselor is urged to attend a meeting 4:30 Wednesday, October 7, in Prof. Snider's office in Old Chapel. At that time, pamphlets and books designed to aid the counselors will be available. Plans for the initiation of a draft counseling course will be discussed. No experience is necessary. The actual draft counselling will take place at The Schenectady Peace Center on State Street, Those interested in obtaining draft counselling, look for an announcement in this paper. Gati Tells Of Committee's Study'i-ng Collegiate Rule By Charles Gati. Early this fall, President Martin appointed an ad hoc Committee on Governance, composed of four faculty members (Professors Gado, Huntley, Ketchum, Sharlet); eight students (Miss Berrett, Messrs. Feingold, Freelon, Rundell, Spencer, Wicker, Witherspoon, and a graduate student to be named shortly); three members of the administration (Deans Lichterman, Malloy, Palmer); and two members of the non-professional staff (Miss Van Fleet, Mr. Neuhaus). I was asked to chair the committee. Students were selected from a list submitted by the President of the Student Senate, the other member~ of the committee were appointed by President Martin. Our committee's responsibility, as defined by the President, is to prepare a report, with suitable recommendations, for submission to the Trustees, the Faculty, the professional and non-professional staff. and the Student Body. Concurrently, the Trustees have also established a committee, chaired by Mr. William A Waldron, to study the structure and process of governing at the college. I assume that both committees will make recommendations together or separately -which, if approved by the various constituencies of the college, may lead to revisions in the college charter, the faculty and student constitutions and by-laws. Mainly because of the size of our committee, much of our work will be done in the several subcommittees we have established. The first subcommittee is studying the present pattern ol governance at Union, its strengths and weaknesses. The second subcommittee is considering recent national and international trends as well as models of governance in operation or planned elsewhere, with particular attention to colleges similar to Union. The third subcommittee will draw up alternative models of governance for Union. The fourth subcommittee is evaluating new modes of representation, participation, and consultation within the college's governing, administrative, and legislative bodies. The The fifth subcommittee will summarize the committee's recommendations antl write our final report. Incidentally, two of the subcommittees arc chaired by faculty members, two by students, and one by a member of the administration. Although we .hope to submit our report hy mid-winter, it is obviously much too early to discuss substantive aspects of our considerations. It is clear, however, that we will try to deal with two interrelated problems. First, we will study the structure and process of decision-making at Union and make appropriate recommendations for change if advisable. I would hope that we will simplify rather than complicate our governing scheme, keeping in mind that fresh organization, however appealing on paper, is no substitute for genuine cooperation and mutual trust. Second, we will deal with the question of representation within the organizational scheme. As I see it, the extreme choices arc easy enough to identify: We can emphasize expertise at the expense of participation or participation at the expense of expertise. Either way we are likely to miss the mark, I think because expertise without legitimacy can just as easily lead to chaos these days as the abuse of democracy can lead to anarchy. It is my fervent hope, therefore, that we will strike a sensible balance and recommend a system of representation which will help unite our various constituencies in carrying out the main task of Union College - which is the advancement of learning through teaching and research in a free environment. To accomplish our objective, we count on support from faculty and students alike. Some of our subcommittees will hold open hearings (which will IJe properly advertised in advance). All members of the committee welcome suggestions, opinions, or recommendations from all Who wish to make a contribution. What we need most, however, is that our final report be evaluated on the campus in terms of what it recommends for Union College as a whole rather than in terms of \student power,\ faculty or adminic;tration prerogatives, or trustee authority. In the final analysis, we ought to have a framework for governance that encourages, not interest group politics hut greater efficiency in the use of educational resources and an atmosphere of trust and partnership in the college community.

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 6, 1970· ... Concordy Sports Fumble Costly As Gridders Bow To Alfred By Mark Shugoll The Garnet offense displayed ·its only signs of life the first time it saw the ball. Sophomore John Swanko ran back an Alfred punt twenty-five yards to the Saxon 40-yard line to give the Garnet fine field position for its. first offensive series. practical purposes, was finished for the afternoon. touchdown before ·the Saxons,: broke the streak. The Union College defense held one of New York State's finest small college. quarterbacks to a mere five completions, but it was the defense of Alfred that stymied a sluggish Garnet attack and carried away a 7-0 football victory on Alexander Field in the rain on Saturday. The Saxons capitalized on a third period fumble to post their third win without a loss. Union is-now 2-1. The Garnet limited Alfred signal caller Jim Morretti to 39 yards in the air on five completions in fifteen attempts, while containing a team that had rolled up 75 points in its first two games to but one touchdown. Starting quarterback Dave Rearic hit running back Larry Sykes with a 17-yard pass to put Union on the Saxon 23. Swanko ground out fourteen yards on three carries to give the Garnet a first and goal situation on the Alfred nine. Later in the first period, defensive star Don LeBart pounced on an Alfred fumble to give Union the ball on the Sa.xon 31, but the Garnet could not capitalize. This time Mitchell was forced to try a 48:.yard field goal, and his effort feU just short. The Saxons nearly got onto the scoreboard when soccer-style kicker Chris Guerriere hit the crossbar on a 45 yard attempt with I :30 to go in the half. Guerriere missed three times in the first half. Garnet coach George Flood' tried to stir some punch in his lethargic offense by inserting Mike Hogan into ·the quarterback slot midway through the third quarter. The move backfired when Hogan fumbled the exchange on · his first offensive play and Alfred?s AI Naples recovered. On first down Morretti seemed to have his team on the scoreboard when he found a receiver wide open on the goal line, but the ball was dropped. The play, however, only postponed the agony for the cold and wet Garnet fans as Jim Rodgers romped over the goal line on a beautifully exet:uted reverse just one play later. Alfred cut off eny subsequent Union bids wiih three interceptions and a fumble recovery. Alfred aq.d the Garnet came into the game rated num.bers five and six respectively jn the first balloting fot the Lambert Bowl. The Bowl is symbolic of Eastern small college football supremacy. Run·ners 13th By Greg llatnlin However, the visitors were equally effective defensively, if not even more so, holding Union to a total offense of only 125 yards, 95 of which came on the ground. Then Curtis Rowe and Rearic were each stopped for no gain and Swanko could manage only three more yards on a third down play, forcing Union into a field . goal situation. Bobby Mitchell's twenty-five yard hoot went wide, however, and the Garnet offense, for ail Alfred made one more bid to break up the scoreless tie in the waning seconds of the second quarter. The visitors drove to the Union 35-yard line, and on third down Morretti threw long only to see Union safety Paul Ramsey knock the- ball to the ground at the last possible second. The Garnet's offensive ineptness was evident in the game statistics. Union managed only 95 yards on the ground, 71 of · which belonged to Swanko. The remaining six Garnet running backs who saw action gained only 24 yards combined. The Garnet cross-country team opened its fall schedule last Saturday, traveling to central New York to compete in the LeMoyne Invitational. The Dutchmen finished 13th in the 23 school field, a· somewhat inauspicious beginning . fot a team that has set its ' sights . on In the air, Union fared even worse with the sophomore quarterbacking tandem completing only six of fourteen passes for thirty yards. In additio·n, the Garnet offense ran off only 51 plays from scrimmage as opposed to 70 for Alfred. Union's heroic defense has now given up just 23 points in three ball games. The unit had a string of eight consecutive qua11ers without yielding a _I$9Qf Open$ .Home Slate By Len Solomon improving upon l!ist season;s 5-2 dual meet recoord. · . · -- · . Ti~ ... McCabe, . who- as a . freshman last spring was named the most valuable athlete on the track team, and Bryant Moeckel · provided the only bright spots in the LeMoyne meet. McCabe Was the top Union finisher, placing 36th out of more than 150 runners, while Moeckel, the number one Garnet harrier in 1969, placed 42nd. Several factors contributed to the teams lackluster performance. Most importantly, the Garnet runners had had only two weeks to prepare for the LeMoyne meet; most of the competing squads had been running for over a month. Secondly, four of the first five · Union harriers McCabe, Moeckel, Forbes, and Burgess- were suffering from ' various minor ailments. ON THE RUN- Sophomore quarterback Dave Rearic eludes an onrushing Saxon defender and tosses a screen pass during Saturday's rain-drenched 7-0 football loss to A(fred. Rearic and the rest of the Garnet offense sputtered in the downpour, posting only 125 yards in total offense. Tomorrow ·at 3:00 p.m. on Daley Fidd~ a new· season opens for Union's Soccer squad. This year should prove exciting, as the team .features several changes. Replacing Gary Brown as head In addition to these handicaps, the Dutchmen ran without highly-touted freshman Bob Nesbitt, who has been challenging front-runners McCabe and Moeckel in practice. coach is Robert McMurray, who I JOUI' fuf.ute. has instituted a new octagonal '1 Eulog!l From His Teammates On an evening in early July. 1970 Dave Block lost control of his car while driving near his home town and was killed. The Union College Soccer Team would like to dedicate this season to Dave as a memorial to him and his ideals. Dave was a pre-med major from Trivoli. New York. On campus he was easily recognizable by his long blonde hair. Everyone knew him and everyone liked him. If someone Schlock . . The track team will hold an organizational meeting ~n Thursday October 8 at 4:30, m the Block U Room. All freshmen and Varsity candidates are urged to attend or leave their name with Coach Coleman. The Swim team will have its pre-season organizational meeting in the Block U Room. All interested students are invited to attend; at II :30 A.M. on October 12. came to him with a problem he would make the time to help in whatever way he could. He was always late for class but never behind in his studies. As a freshman Dave played soccer and 'lacrosse. He was high scorer at attack for the frosh• lacrosse team but chose not to compete on a varsity level because of his love for ·soccer. On the frosh soccer team he had three shut-outs as goalie and inspired the team to a winning season. His sophomore year he had three more shut-outs. including a 1-0 win over NCAA bound RPI. He had a magic touch in the goal and could stop almost anything that was shot at his goal. In the game against Trinity College, he had 67 saves. The game ended in a 3·3 tie but brought him national acclaim. Against St. Lawrence and Clarkson, Dave played with four broken ribs without letting anyone know. His efforts were valiant but not enough to win. Dave had more courage in the goal than most teams did on the playing field. He showed it in a shaped system 'instead of the A. -:~ .... .at:_ T.e.\t conventional4-3-3 set-up. 1'\.WU~U~~~· lite U ~ • • • sc~~m;ag:econ~ers~rse-sea:~~ ®lli&OOOO~ urn GBE Schenectady Soccer Club the ~ w rn· IT1 team showed a marked f!\mJ 11 l. SAJ improvement using this system, W IJJ . . · . · · after previously tieing the ifi)®(r)1?®~ m M. CA'J qmet humility not seen m many Schetlectadians 5-5. In the first L!!J V I!J U V lJj · II of the athletes today. Just 20 minutes of that second oo· ~[f]IT~~TI knowing he was there inspired contest, the first string blasted 4 ~. . ·. . . . . ·. D A'J· the team innumerable times. goals. II From a coaches standpoint, he This fall's Garnet team also wnn~nm~~~ A'J&SB had a willingness to learn and an features sbme new faces. The L!Jl!'J~UUJLSc!J~ Jl · , openness to suggestion for better tragic loss of Dave Block may be • play. He learned quickly and felt this year in the goal but a never made the same mistake slimmer and faster Craig Barger twice, spending extra time on any has lobked very good so far as _ • weakness, no matter how small. his replacement. • He also worked very hard to Returning are last year's • bring the other goalies to his .leading scorers Pierre Roumain level of play. and Co-capt. Chris Swan. Beside Preparation for tests required for admission to post-graduate schools Six and twelve session courses Small groups Voluminous study material for home study prepared by ex- perts in each field Besides the dedication of the Roumain on the front line are season, the 1970 soccer team has Co-captains Bobby Dodd and inaugurated the Dave Block Dusty Richard, while Swan and Memorial Award. This award is Art Frazier are the halfbacks. to be given to the soccer player Larry Mullman, Jaime who contributes the most, in Ramirez, Dave Bloom, and ability and spirit, to the highly praised freshman Sandy • betterment of soccer at Union Wilder round out the squad at • Lesson schedule can be tai- lored to rneet individual needs. Lessons can be spread over a period of several months to a College. This award will be voted the fullback spots. by the players at the end of the Tomorrow's game should be STANLEY H. KAPLAN season. quite a battle, as a strong Trinity EDUCATIONAL CENTER year, or for out of town stu- dents, a period of one week. Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center. It is only a small momento to team is out to avenge last year's TUTORING AND auiOANcE SINCE 1sao the efforts of this superb goalie contest in which Union gained a 1675 East 16th Street and outstanding person. His 3 3 · . - tie. accomplJ~hments and Coach McMurray feels that deport.ment wtll be rememb~red \Trinity is in for a surprise\ by .UniOn C?llege for a long ~Ime .. again this year, as the team is ;:5. ii!iiiii It 1s for thts ~eason we dedicate sttbnger and faster overall than j the season to h1m. last year's squad. I . Wk\lli v~---·:::: ..... I E1 c ,, par pol abl• pol not jou auc eve ~ rerr has the unf jus1 exa Oli cor: of hm anc che I pre en' Gn his1 eco tha ba· em but wir a ttl nu org a f bat ( un cor fail fac are He Soc plu fine bir• bei spe jet1 I sor rei~ em tol• am wa del cor ate the thr the pes

came five first. Bowl. team last the The 23 a 5-2 a med the · in r in to ter the the be, ps, ob en e , . Fountl,d at Union College 1877 VOLUME 100, NUMBER 4- SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBE~ 9, 1970 PR:CE TWENTY CENTS - --· . ~-·· ·F acuity Council Convenes: Calendar Change Discussed The Faculty Co1,1ncil, holding taking the coursl;'l) will be able to were tormutated to deal with this ,jts first meeting of the academic take an examination in the 'lroblem. A small number of year, discussed issues of varying subject area, and if successful will oreign students who presently importance on Tt1esday receive academic credit, The attend Linton High School in afternoo1,1. original motion for such a plan Schenectady were granted Opening business concerned was approved at the previous temporary permission to audit approval of the preceeding Council meeting last Jun~. but some science courses here. meeting's minutes which was plans for the implementation of The Faculty Council is followed by the unanimous the program remain incomplete. composed of the chairman of election of Registrar Calvin The not uncommon practice of ~ach of the four divisions, two Schmidt to the post of .Faculty double workloads assumed by representatives from each Council Secretary. Di$cussion young faculty members was division who are elected by the was begun on a series of denounced by some of those faculty, and Deans Palmer and substantive issues tbough no present as a violation of Lichterman. In the event of a tie votes w¢re taken during the corttractural responsii>iiity to the vote. President Martin, who course ·of the meeting. · c 11 b fi heads the meeting, gains the Perhaps of prime interest to 0 e~e. ~t ~ 0 d~ mite steps power of decision. the general academic commu11ity Environmental,ist Graham Cites Ecological Crisis is the consideration of possible The changes in the academic ··. : calendar. ln the course of the · · Commune for Credit: past two years, there have been a number of votes among students and faculty regarding the academic calender, and in each case the controversial trimester won the support of a substantial majority. Students Live and Learn By TOM MITCHELL Scheduled to begiQ during the Winter term, 1970-71, the program would, if possible. be coeducational. It would involve between ten and twenty students (due to lack of space a larger number is impractical) and a faculty member serving both as advisor and as a member of the community. The community would be distinct from the rest of the college; Covin and Galdston have .. tentatively\' acquired the use of an ~ght room house, about two miles from the campus. ByLES GOLDMAN \Industry has become paralyzed in its efforts to fight pollution, and has not even been able to deal with its own pollution,\ said F:rank Graham, noted environmentalist and joUf!lalist, speaking to .llo. capacjty . audience· in SS 016 Tuesday evening. Mr. Graham prefaced his remarks by saying that, \Industry has become the whipping boy of the pollution crisis, sometimes unfairly, but usually with great justification.\ He cited the examples of such companies as Olin Matheson which advocates conservation of wildlife because of its beneficial effect on its business of gun manufacturing, and yet -pollutes rivers with chemical pollutants. In an effort to explain the present situation in the environmental movement, Graham chose to explore the historical background of today's ecological crisis. He pointed out that conservationists have been battiing to protect the enviromnent for over 100 years, but as he put it, \have failed to win some of the big ones.\ He attributed this failure to the numero·us conservationist organizations which have caused a fragmentation of effort in the battle to save the environrnent. Graham also indicated that until recently, many conservationist groups have failed to realize that the different f~~ets of the environment they are fighting for are interrelated. He cited the case of the Audobon Society fighting to maintain the plume birds of Florida, and then finding that the place where these birds live, the Everglades, \was being destroyed by fanners, land speculators, and more rece-ntly, jetport builders.'~ Mr. Graham then went into some . detail to explain the relationship of DDT to the environmental movement. He told of how during World War II and the early post-war years it was used effectively as a delousing agent and as a malarial control agent. \It opened new areas of the world, artd became the chief insecticide used throughout the world.'' In 1948, the discoverer of its use as a pesticide, Paul Muller, was even awarded a Nobel prize. However, even at this time \some doctors were beginning to question the advisability of using such a long- lasting pesticide.\ It was not until 1962, however, that the public at large became aware of the dangers of DDT until the publicatiort of Racl,tel Carson's Silent Spring. Mr, Graham felt that Silent Spring \broke the information barrier on DDT,. pushed the guv~rrunent into action many years before it might have. normally acted, and liad a profound effect on the environmental movement as a whole.\ Graham explained that it was not Rachel Carson's contention that pesticides should never be used, but that extreme care should be taken when they are used. Furthermore, Mr. Appare;ntly, changed circumstances (particularly plans for greatly increased cross- registration involving members of the regional college consortium) have resulted in renewed pressure for· a pdlicy change. After intensive Faculty Council discussion of the matter, President Harold C. Martin announced that materials would be prepared to help clarify the issue, and that discussion over the calendar would commence within the All College Council and the Student Senate. Another matter considered was that of proficiency exams, a system under which a student (or non .. student) who believes that he possesses enough knowledge to pass a certain subject (without Efforts to establish !\ communal living program as a Comp. Ed. project took a step forward last night as students and faculty met in the Hale House Student Lounge to discuss the \experiment.\ Program organizers Mark Coven· and Phillip Galdston believe the program will be a \means for exciting, innovative learning,\ allowing the student to mature intellectually.and come to terms with himself. The program. they explained, would have the spirit of a scientific experiment. with emphasis on learning. Thus, if the project is a success the knowledge gained from the \pilot program\ would, hopefully, lead to a permanent communal living program at Union. The mem,bers of the community will meet during the Fall term and decide upon an overall concept to stress during the winter term. Students will then use this theme to meet their Comp. Ed. project requirements. Discussions on specific subtopics (two students will work on each subtopic) will, because of the WRUC D . HopeS p·f'ans ;~:;a'::~~bea~~~s~~~rean;fti!~: . . ' . ~ rea·m s . . ' , ' for any length of.time, an~ in any + . ' . manner we destre,\ ummpeded By LOUIS S. SNITKOFF FCC and all pians are subject to the approval of by an overly f~rmal struct~re. MORE ON PAGE 2 President Martin and the Board of 1 rustees. Students .will be reqUired ~o Bob Ditter, in- an interview with Concordiensis When the time comes to apply, said Ditter, there keep. a Journal of . the~r yesterday, said that with a great deal of work, are five major parts to the application that must be expenences a~d observatiOns. m enough interest and some much-needed assistance considered. By far, the most important of these is . the co~mumty. The proJ~ct on the part of students and friends, FM radio can the aspect of community support. \Unlike WRUC- wo~ld gtve two cours.; credtts, become a reality at UI1ion. · AM, an F.M station would, by 'its very nature, while ~n Indepen~ent Study, \There are,\ said the President of WRUC, appeal to and service two communities: the college concemmg the proJect or, any \fantasies concerning FM at Union which are and the surrounding communities within a SO-mile other course ch~sen by. the simply riot true.\ Foremost among these is the idea radius of Schenectady. We must prove to the FCC student would prov1de the thtrd. that FM has been talked about for six or seven that both communities want and need this kind of . Acceptance .to the program years. ln reality however, the first initiative toward station;; Ditter said. Wll_l be determmed by a rather an FM station was taken by· Charlie Cusimano last The station head went. on to explain the changes umqu~ system: three student September. Those who work at WRUC, then, have to be made in programming should WRUC become org~mzers and the _faculty been seriously involved with the FM problem for an FM station. Ditter's plans for the station ~dvts~r would, on the basis of an only one year. describe it as a \Fine Arts Station\ with a program mtervtew. _choose a fourth Furthermore, asserted Ditter, most people do not including daily shows of Classical; Jazz, Rock and student. Thts group would then realize the staggering amount of work involved in Folk music, in addition to Public Service choose the .fifth. student and so acquiring an FM station. '~The AM band,\ sai4 {discussion) shows. on. Ditter, \has been frozen throughout the nation for \However I can not emphasize enough,\ said Mr. Gordon Bingham, of the two years, and the FCC has no plans to award new Ditter, \the urgent need for the support of the Comp. Ed. Board, explained that stations in the future. Coupled with this is the fact college and local community, if WRUC is to the .Board will meet next week that the free FM frequencies are rapidly become FM.\ First of all, students are needed to with. Coven and Galdston to disappearing.\ help run the AM station, to allow Ditter and examine the academic In this area, ihere are two open FM frequencies, Dennis Fazio (technician) to devote their time to requirements of the program. one of which, according to Ditter; has already been -FM plans. · · Bingham expressed his belief that requested by a private firm. The second, or the one Secondly, every member of the college. the Board will require a we are interested in acquiring, has also been community must write a letter to the Union delineation of exactfy what will considered by two communications firms, \The Broadcasting Group, Letters should include be studied by the community. sooner we apply,\ said Ditter, \the better our programming suggestions and the writer's college However, it was brought up, that chances of receiving the channel.\ address and the date. Third, anyone with friends such a guideline might become Ditter went on to -outline the prerequisites for living within a 50-mile radius of Schenectady should too restrictive for the applying to the FCC for an FM statiort. Among the implore their friends to write similar letters community. It appears, therefore, considerations are frequency availability, technical including their he~ ne addresses and the date. Letters that while some academic necessities and legal responsibilities. A large amount of this nature can be presented to the FCC as regulations might become of money, to cover the initial capital investment and evidence ofcommunity support for the station. burdensome to the program, they costs for one full year of operation, is required \I cannot say exactly when we can have FM on will be necessary if the communal before the FCC will grant an FM ·license. campus, and although we do need a tower site, I am living program is to exist as a Furthermore, a toWer site must be approved by the optimistic;\ said Ditter. Comp. Bd. project.

PAGE2 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 9,1970 More On Ecology ... FROM PAGE 1 Graham indicated the three are to live.\ Graham contended hazards of DDT which Miss that \industry continues to fight Carson specifically cited in her every piece of meaningf1.1l attack on the pesticide. These legislation to control pollution.\ were its quality to endure in the As an example of this he open environment, its presented the case of a vice- magnification in the food chain, president of a chemica I and its ability to enter living corporation involved . in the tissue. Graham also cited some recent controversy over mercury evidence indicating that there pollution. While testifying before may be Jinks between DDT and a congressional committee, this the formation of tumors in official of the corpora ion experimental rats. involved \said he hoped that the Mr. Graham explained that federal government would not do chemical and agricultural anything rash.\ Graham also told industry met these attacks on of the industry tactic of sending DDT by Miss Carson with a out literature and speakers public re1ations barrage. This without making it clear that the publicity campaign, consisting of individuals involved are affiliated personal attacks on her, called with the companies which are her, \'a mystic and a fanatic doing the polluting. advocate of the balance of Mt. Graham also indicated nature... that government has failed to live In turning to more recent up to its responsibility in events ir. the pollution struggle, controlling pollutants of the Mr. Graham indicated that while environment. He indicated that \Americans had converted their one of the reasons for this may rivers into sewers, it was the be that many government sewers in the sky, the air scientists are also consultants to pollution crisis that had caused a the industries which produce the growing awareness of the pollutants. He cited the case of environmental pro bl.em.\ the \Shell No Pest Strip\ which Graham then went on to cite the was finally approved by a automobile manufa-cturer's government committee, three of efforts to keep the blame for whose members had consulting THIS AIR POLLUTION jobswithchemicalcorporations. __ AWAY FROM THEIR Mr. Graham concluded his INDUSTRY. He told the story speech by indicating that the of Kenneth Hahn. a member of federal government's latest move Los Angeles' Pollution Control to aid the environment, President Boam and the correspondence he Nixon's C ou nc i1 on Bad with numerous auto industry Environmental Quality may be executimves. One of the most nothing more than a \public interesting piece.s of relations set up.\ He felt that this correspondence revealed by Mr. was true because the -Council had Gmb~ was a l~tter written in been bypassed on many 19SS by a General Motors important decisions. Corporation vice-president In answer to a question stating that .. pollution control concerning the effect of the devices would not really curtail student environment movement the pollution problem.\ and its affect on the nation as a One factor that may have whole, Mr. Graham stated that increased public awareness of the to achieve any success in the pollniion problem is London's battle against pollution publicity \killer smog... of 1952. The was needed. He went on to say environmentalist indicated that that the student movement had this particnlar smog killed more generated a great deal of this people in a week than many of much needed publicity. He cited the natural disease epidemics that the case of Senator Muskie, bad previously swept through who while advocating strict London. pollution standards in the nation This increasing awareness by as a whole \compromised in his the public of the pollution own backyard... the state of problem bas led many people to Maine.\ However, Graham belie1re that \long before we indicated that pressure from discover the extent of our students seems to have made contamination of the Senator Muskie more consistent environment it may be in his environmental policy. inevocably damaged.\ Mr. Graham, in answer to a Mr. Gr.iliam then entered into question concerning what college a discussion of how industry and students can do in the battle government bave faced this crisis. against pollution, stated that In general, ••industry has economic pressur~ on. polluters responded to the environmental was. prob~bly the most effective crisis by launching a new public tactic possible. . . . relations campaign.\ He cited the He concluded by md1catmg Cise of advertisements showing that the large turnout was a \'what a great place oil refineries hope~ul sign that envir~nmental · conscwusness was spreadmg. 1- VOhm, 100. INio. 4 . . White House Conversation Reported Mealyinouthed Mugwamp Majority? By MIKE MESEROLE (The scene is the Oval Room of the White House, late last Sunday night after the President's return. from Europe. · In conference with the Chief Executive are the Vice President · and the Secretary of State. The occasion is a special executive- level briefing on the President's new peace plan for Southeast Asia.). \' * * * SPIRO: ''Gee, Mr. President, it sure is nice of you to want to talk to me after your historiic tour of the Continent. You're probably anxious to know how I've been minding the old store wl!ile you've been gone.\ DJ.CK; \Spiro we've arrived at some big decisions abroad and we'd like to bring you up on them. I brought Secretary Rogers along to fill in the details. You remember Bill, of course.'' SPIRO: \Of course, Bill, how's it going with Jill St. John?\ DICK: \Wrong Spiro, that's Henry Kissinger.\ SPIRO: \Rogers and Kissinger? Does anyone else know about it?\ BlLL: \Mr. President, really!.'' DICK: \Settle down Bill. Spiro, maybe our news can wait until you tell us about what you've been doing with yourself.\ SPIRO: \Okay. Well, like you told me to do before you left, I've been putting the heat on our cowardly comrades in Congress. In fact, you know those phrases 1 unloaded on them: in September 'natterin.g nabobs of negativism' and 'hopeless, hysterical hpyocnondr.iacs of history,'· along with ·'vicars of vacillation?'\ Well, I· was awarded the ·coveted \Phrase Maker of the Year\ by the Amalgamated Aliiteration Addicts of Albuquerque. I think ~pusillanimous pussyfooters' did it for me, if you want my personal ,opinion.\ DICK: \Congratulations Spiro. That's great, isn't Bill?'' BILL: \Yes sir, just great.\ SPIRO: \Thanks. Anyway, ·back to Congress, I've been swinging at every lousy liberal up for re- election, just like you said. llart, Muskie, Hartke, Humphrey, none of those guys are safe. 1 even went after that no good Charlie GoodelL\ BILL.: \Yc:.~ what! He's a Republican! ... DICK:. \Easy Bi:U. Spiro, c.ould we have that one agin.\ SPIRO: \I !knew that one would please you. Yeah, I remember you saying bow much more comfortable you'd be with Jim B.uckley in ·the Senate, so I thought I'd nail Goodell and make things comfy for you next year.\ DICK: ''We'll talk that over tomorrow. If that's it, now I'll tell YCJU about what we've got cooking on the Peace Front. We're ready to agree to a cease- fire and a gradual timetable for troop withdrawal in Vietnam. How's that soti.nd?\ SPIRO: •!oh, damn!\ BILL: \Oh damn:? What the ... \ DICK: \Oh what, Spiro?\ SPIRO: \Damn. How can you give those 'Radic-Libs' what they want? The 'New York ·Times' wants a cease-fire! If you set a date on getting every soldier out of there you'll be practically cheek to cheek with Goodell, for p.m. llleal after local services are over. On Sunday morning we will have a brunch with Sage and Skidmore - Union girls invited too - at ll:30 A.M. in Hale House. * * \' \' There will be a very important meeting of the Mounteban~s, Monday, October i 2, at 7 p.m. m the Nott Memorial Theater. Anyone who is interested i.n working on any crew or crews ts urged to attend. Of most immediate importa nee are building crew, props, and lights. Also needed are a publicity staff, wardrobe mistress(es), makeup, box office, etc. There will be something to do for everyone. * * * * Charles Evers, mayor of Fayette, Mississippi, will speak in Memorial Chapel on Tuesday, October 13 at 11:30 Important PYE (Protest Your Environment) meeting for all concerned students and professors Monday October 12, in SS lounge at 4:30. ...- The PYE club will be cleaning up the Brook that Bounds (creek that reeks) on Tuesday, October 13 at 3:30. If you wish to help, meet at· Chester Arthur statue in front of Jackson's Gardens. a.m. Chrissakes! I've been slaving over my dictionary looking· for zingers for Charlie, like 'mealymouthed· mugwump' and 'panic partial pantywaist,' and now you . puU this peace stuff on me. What about the campuses? Couldn't you've seen 'Patton' and gone into Thailand or something? I was hoping for some good anti\ student-radical sentiment to help us in November, but now ... \ · DICK: \Things are tough all over, Spiro. Good night. (The Vice President rises and leaves.) You seem distressed., Bill. I'll admit that he says some funny things, but after all, he's col_orful and pute boxNof:qce on the campaign trail. What could you call him besides 'the vocal cords of the Silent Majority?\' BTLL: \How about the ~delin.quent draftsma.n. Q.f domestic division,' for_ st~iiers?\ :To The Editor Cape Cod . used to be like .Martha's .. Vineyard: quiet. unspoiled, beautiful. The few people who came didn't 'build hu.ge plastic motels with ocean front swimming pools. or neon- minature golf-go cart-tnimpoline- pinball-driving range-pizza places. They didn't take their vacation with a bottle and kill your friends with their 400 horsepower erel;tions. Now there· is a new group of litterbugs, shoplifters, and panhandlers who have more money than you. Go down to the beach. in the morning and try to sit among the broken glass, beer cans, used rubbers, excrement, and general trash that is left by people \sleeping on the . beacll\ befor~ they move on. You also see \transients\ through different eyes when~ there are twenty living (?) in the house across the street and you don't like their taste in music at four every morning three months a year, or until the Board of Health closes them down. We on. Cape Cod have not moved here to have your parent's cities chase us or babysit and clean up after their spoiled irresponsible children.. Stay at home and suck the bottle of your own making. We handle our own problems, don't j~m yours down our throats. Thats why you're not liked on Martha's Vineyard. James Stewart '71 In 1969, Evers became the first black ever to be elected mayor of Fayette. For more than twenty years he had campa-igned for Human Rights in the South on the behalf ofthe NAACP. ACME BARBER SHOP * * * \' 509 Union Street Hillel would like to remir .d EXPERIENCED BARBERS ---------------------------N Editor-in-Chief Peter J. Wein)lold Friday. October~ M.a.-.. Edilw l<:xeculiYe Editor everyone of its special activities for this weekend. There will be a break-the-fast, lox and bagels in - r-~H:a=le~H:o~U:s:e~o:n~S:at:u:r:da:y~a:t~7~:3:0~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=; Nearest to Union College Students .,...., HenryJ. Fein William Ower Features Editor Sports Editor News Eolil01r Daniel Schochct William J. Holleran ;::_ • isS.:: Photography Editor C'ontribuling Editor Jody Saslow Richard l. .Kramer Uord Bims Layout Editor Asst. Sports Editor \\\'·News Editor Doug Wong Matk Shugoll Peur Bidtertnan Asst. Business Managers Asst. PhOtography Editors INia.._l Adv. Mv. Doug Tosch Charles Long Neil Gn:en Doug Binder Dave Conrey SI'AFF: Mike Gotllieb, M. Grossman. Michael Hollander. George Kaplan. Robo:n A. levine. Mike Meserole. Thomas Morante. Ruth Morton. Stu Moss. Micbao!l Rosenberg CANDIDATE REPORTERS: Joseph Achenbaum. Burgrcss 'llrier, David Conti. Anne Gemmell. Michael Goler. Brenda Ka~lan. Barbara McDonald. Tom Mill:hell. Harris Samuels. Abby Schutzer, Nina Wolff. Jay Hobart. Len Solomon. (;rorge Bain. Marty Berman, HarVey Civins - Published Tu~ays and Fridays dqring the school year by the student bo~y of Union College. Schenectady, N.Y .• National Advenisi'!g Rcprescntatl\e, ~auonal Educationai Advertising Service. J~c., College Publishers Represcntahv7. ~60 kllington Ave .• N.Y.C. Editorial office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Off'ICC. The World Publications, 771 State Street.. Schenectudy. N.Y. 1~307. 346- 2356 Entered in the Schenectady post . office as Secona Class Ma1l Matter. Su~ption 20 cents a copy. $6 u year delivered anywhere in the United States .. MAMA· BIAUCHI'S RESTAURAN·r 1135 · Barrett St. Real Italian Food Cooked To ·order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town . OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. aqd SAT~ s Fo twen' Wha else, Tb card hour obvi1 dissa grou hous who! sevet the I abou .protc resid caun cam] this no fl is \1 peo~ wort kn0 1 B1 actu impc and that \gre fron shm War not poli is i11 A it, \' of inv< to ~ aw is stu( l abo wh2 can wai son Am it a on· 1 bee occ mo all em at· sitt if tl Vel mo abc bul sh< isl Up' Me ve1 m< un Wil Pe ve1 bl2 ofl wi: cia flu (R go M •}Ol C< co Er H '\'(

over zingers partial puU Wha,t gone I d anti-. help ,,, . all . (The I'll funny n · ihe ld you cords the Ii ().f like uiet. few 'build ocean neon- oline- a their j kill 400 of and more o the ry to beer by also te in I the not and at own why '71 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 9, 1970 PAGE 3 Strikers VigRant in Veteran's Park; Passivity ls Not The Answer Here· Peasants from The North Call Across Castle Wall Once upon a time there was a heavily guarded, big gray castle surrounded by many acres of green grass. The castle was the abode of many princesses. It seemed that every pre,caution possible had been taken by the King and his councilors to secure the castle and its occupants .from any attack by strange forces. The princesses found themselves guarded night and day from .any offending warriors. By GARY FREIDMAN For those of you who venture downtown, you no doubt are familiar with Vetera,n's Park, one scene of last spring's demonstrations. This patch of green in Schenectady's \business district,\ .is the site for roughly twenty middle a,ged protestors. What are they protesting? What else, the War;. is needed, but not change in such a way that it will alienate pc;!ople • by Violence and destruction. If you try to change the system because you think you just might love the country, then you are our man, because it can be done. The way to do it is not by destroying what we have and. then rebuilding (you had better have a good substitute if you try), but rather by convincing the majority of the people that your way is better.'That is not done by estrartging · the people with violent tactlcs, or ·-creating a hostility towards students that doses their minds to all change,\ as Mr. Snider so aptly put it. Try to bring about change by usi,ng. your time to campaign for yo\lr favorite political candidate (cough), or even by writing for Concordy, or just going around Schenectady some afternoon talking to the people about the way you see iife, America, or G.E. And if this effort is made by all the students, and it is ignored, or simply unheeded, than maybe another course of action is needed. However, it came to pass that even in his almighty knowledge and wisdem the King anq his loyal and wise councilors left the princesses defensless on the Notth side, It was the custom of these young ladies to promenade on the grounds frem dawn 'til dusk. They would chatter amiably with the visiting knights and squires from the west and south. Often they chose to walk in groups of three and four to a neighboring woodland, where trees and flowers bloemed. The reason for their protest, carried out in the for-m of a one hour silent vigil once a week, is obvious; they want to show their dissatisfaction with the war. The group cons-ists ·of clergy, housewives, and G.E. workers, whose ;tges run from thirty to C,lear Day ..... . Alas, in order to reach the woodland, the princesses found they must pass a hollow castle which the King had ordered renovated to his taste. The peasant men who were accomplishing the change were not ,at all like the courtly gentlemen who carne to pay heed to the young ladies. These yeomen would hail the princesses from the rooftop of this grand castle in a most unbecoming and uncourtly manner. When they spied the ladies leaving their castle they would break out in a foreign tongue and call incessantly until the girls were beyend hearing. seventy-two. Questioned abo\lt By Jack Larson the effectiveness of this vigil and I am not publicly taking back about the effectiveness of every disparing remark I have protests in general, . Mr. Snider ever said about Barbra Streisand; resident religious advisor, draft in- fact, I'm willing to take back counselor, political activist on everything I've ever said about campus, and also a parti~ipant in Jewish girls from Brooklyn. this protest, 'replied: ''You have Barbra Streisand may not be the no more assurance that the vigil greatest actress in the world, but is worthwile, than encouraging there 1 was, sitting through an people to avoid the draft is unexceptional film called \On A worthwhile. You j11st don't Clear Day You can See know.;' Forever,\ when out of nowhere, But whether or not the vigil is magic. actually effective is of little The miracle occurs about two- importance. \What is important, thirds through the picture. and even impressive, is the fact Streisand begins to sing \What that every weelc a part of the Did t Have That I Don't Have?\ \great silent majority\ gets out in when you realize that she isn't front of all of Schenectady to really singing; it's more like a show how they feel about the dramatic reading put to music. War. It might be trite, it might On the screen is perfection; a not · coincide with the radical song has been introduced to the politics of today's students, but it situation and belongs there, The is involvement. viewer is reduced to numb, Although, as Mr. Snider puts happy awe. it, \There is a limit to the number Unfortunately, this great of things that you can get moment is sandwiched between a involved in, \one would be led movie that is not bad as much as to believe that even· the one hour it is unimaginatively correct. a week donated by these.. people, There are no surprises (save ·the is more than most of our above), and little a:rtistic-coutage.- students ppt in. The cast, . including Yves To effect change and bring Montand, Larry Blyden, Bob about improvement, equality, or Newhart, and Jack NicholSon; whatever else you want, you just seems to be walki .. g through ' cannot sit back passively and their parts. Streisand seems to be wait for it to happen, or for the only one who cared about the someone else to do it for you. film. And, you certainly cannot bring The direction is by the veteran it about by a once a year march musical-comedy director on G.B. Vincente Minelli. His color is The recent trend of protest has beautiful~ the composition of been marches, burning or each shot is fairy tale pretty. His occupation of buildings and handling of the actors and the more recently, bombings. While interminable cuts from. one all of these could probably be character to another, for no effective, and are indeed justified other reason than the actors at times, you should look at the obviously were not in the studio situation yourself, and determine • on the same day, successfully if they are necessaty yet. kills anY momentum . the film The group of people in may have had. Though the Veteran's Park are doing little . dialogue and the setting were more than showing how they feel trying very hard to be about the War. It affects them, contemporary, Mr. MinelWs but it affects you more. Change technique has not progressed FilM HAPS BEDAZZlE EYE, FANTASTIC FILM WE.EKE·ND By ROBERT A. LEVINE and MARK A. URMAN Concordy Film Critics \Bedazzled the Film Hap showing for this Saturday night, is an irreverently witty fllm based upon the legend of Faust. Dudley Moore, cine of England's most versatile comics, portrays a mousy cook obsessed with an unrequited love for a beautiful waitress played by Eleanor Bron. Peter Cook guilefully · ·plays a very \tnod\ Satan (replete with black cape and silk hat) who offers Moore a tempting seven wishes in exchange for a first class, Grade A soul. Aided by his flunkies, The Seven Deadly Sins (Raquel Welch is a particularly good lust), the devil deftly foils Moo~e's attempts to win his lady love. Along the way, Moore and Cook lead us through a pop concert, a pop convent, an English manor, and, to be sure, Ilea ven and Hell. . All· the while, •ve are treated to ,devilishly clever social comment and several mad- cap surprises. The film is stylishly ·.directed ~y Stanley Donen (best kpown for \Charade\) and co- authored by Moore and Cook. The film will be shown at 8 and 10:15 in SS016. Film Haps' Sunday presentation will be \Repulsion 1 ' a macabre story of a girl (Catherine Deneuve), tormented by her craving for and loathing of men, as her fears and erotic fantasies drive her beyond the edge .of sanity. T.he film was written and directed by Roman Polanski whose most recent work is the nightmarish ••Rosemary's Baby.\ Not unlike \Psycho\ \Repulsion\ shows us how a person may live among us without our realizing that something is wrong with him, until his murder. This masterpiece of sex and suspense will be shown at 3:00~ 7:00, 9:00, and 11:00 in SS016. beyond 1955. At that time, the diFector had some fine movies to his credit, and if he had kept to his proven formulas, the movie might have been s.uccessful. However, he tries to adapt to new styles, and the resulting hybrid, like Kazan's \The Arrangement,\ is topheavy and out ef place. Often, as the young ladies returned from a morning in the woodland, these peasant workers would stand in an unending line and gaze upon them. This distresses the young ladies to no end. How had it come to pass, they wondered, that the the noble gentlemen from neighboring castles were carefully scrutinized before being allowed to pass through the grounds, and yet these rude, boorish strangers were permitted to gaze distastefully upon them, and speak to them in a tongue not their own. If you have nothing to do, and some dope to do it with, see \On a Clear Day You Can See Forever.\ It's playing at the Scotia Art theater, the nicest movie house in the area. Alas, there was no recourse for the princesses but to accept the unchivalrous treatment offered them. They were afraid to petition the King their Father, l:l,nd they were too timid to demand that the uncourtly yeomen attend to themselves. And so the princesses continued to live from dawn 'til dusk with the demeaning calls of peasants of the North. Attention Lovers of Jazz-Of Kirk; Important Announcement , Bopeep By GREG CHESSON A small .number of· friends ·and myself have noticed what seems to be a glimmer of jazz appreciation coming from the \sitting staring, and rocking club\ (i.e. the majority of UC students). Of ceurse, if I were to writ~ fl record review prl:;!.ising Cannonball Utterly for his backup work on valve violin on that great Glue Note release, \'Rubber Ducky\ there are some who, I am sure, might not know whether or not I was kidding. (It wasn't really Cannonball, it was Ann Landers and Janis Joplin doubling on hot and cold duck, respectively that · gave that side its sparkling flavor, arrgh). Ira, for those of you who have never been to the Rancher in Miami, is a saxophone influence in his own rite. He's a monster change-eater, and I incur the wrath of the local music gods by saying that he makes our own Nick Brignola (who is himself a monster) sound like an infantile monster. Ira played with Charlie Parker at age 19. And although he has been overlooked by record companies for years, he is a supreme inspiration for those who hear him - Joe Farrell, for example. You can find Ira on an old Roland Kirk album. You will notice that on one track, Ira and Kirk are the only guys making the tempo. I'm speaking as an old hand, and I know what 1t tee!.s llke, because l used to cut '-a1egoma on Woody Herman's band every night. Well, it's about time to plug Roland Kirk's upcoming appearance here. So be it. He is a benevolent master of many musical oddities who always makes his audience feel good. He might make you feel good too. Announcement time: The Union College Jazz Workshop is being organized after a lengthy hibernation by the very able Matt Finley with the , help and advice of Prof. Curtis. The Workshop will hold its first open jam session Sunday, Oct. II, at 8:00p.m. in HU. 019. This session will be an initial attempt at groupimprovisationas well as individual galumphing. · · Discussion will include the possiblities for ,performing groups, participation with the Albany State Lab Band, a jazz-oriented coffee-house operation, WR U C recordings and broadcasts, clinics, lectures, and concert trips. Remember that old Kirby Stone IV song, \Bubbles banjoes, and beans?\ Well; show up Sunday with bells on and banjoes, and I'll tell you who Joe Farrell is. For more info, call Matt at 377-8101. One last informative word, and that is, that Bob Beep is a highly refined musical subset (aha! Math- IS) of Bebop which was invented by this writer and never very warmly received anywhere. ·Beware the Body Shirt Snatcher! You're fair game when you wear a Van Heusen Body Shirt. Man, you'll just have to defend your prop· erty rights! 'Cause the new Van Heusen Body Shirt is the best fitting \pro.e_erty\ in your wardrobe! Enjoy it all for y•self, in bolder stripes and solids, with the new- est long point collar and 2·button cuffs. PRIZES! Two big ones! Two round-trip flights via SAS SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES to Copenhagen and Majorca for a swing- ing, eKpense-paid CLUB 33 vacation! Plus a boK of Van Heusen Body Shirts for each of 25 runner -up entries. Easy to enter: just create your own slogans for our Body Shirt ad~ Send entries to College Contest, VAN HEUSEN, 417 Fifth Avenue. New York, New York 10016. Contest void Where prohibited bylaw. VAN HEUSE~·417 Body Shirt

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 9, 1970 Concordy · Sports· . . ... Gridders Journey West Booters Top Bantams in Opener To Face Yellow jackets By Len Solomon Last Wednesday could be the start of a new era for the Union College soccer team. Their last winning season was back in 1958, but after the Garnet's 1.;() win over the strong Trinity team this received a real worl< out in the second half but prevented any scoring by making several good·stops. A moment of anxiety occurred in the fourth quarter when Trinity's Tijan Sallah kicked what looked like a sure goal. It bounced off the crossbeam, however, and was smothered by Ba..rger. By MAQ.K SHUGOLL The Union College football team will take its sputtering offense and liard-nosed defense West tomorrow to tackle the Yellow Jackets of the University of Rochester, The Garnet will be up against a team that boasts a high scoring offense but a seemingly porous defense. Both teams will enter the game with 2- l records. Union's two game winning streak came to an abrupt bald last Saturday when the Garnet fell to undefeated ~lfred, 7-0, in the rain, Again it was the defense that stood out, holding the visitors to one touchtown and halting Alfred quarterback Jim Morretti's II game string of touchdown passes. ·The Dutchmen have yielded but 23 points in three games. The sophomore laden offensive unit has been the Garnet's chief problem spot so far this fall. The unit has put only 12 points ·on the scoreboard in its last tWQ games, after running up a 37- point total in its opener against Worcester Tech. The quarterback situation is still not .. resolved with sophomores Dave Rearic and Mike Hogan fighting it out for the starting nod. In the past two games, Un:on has accounted for only 40 yards via their passing game. On the ground, John Swanko h~s proven to be the most reliable out of a corps of running ~acks, leading the team in rushing yardage each game. The sophomore has gained 208 yards in 35 carries for a 5.9 yard average and has scored two touchdowns. Rochester will come into the game with a team of 32 lettermen and an offense that has tallied 85 points in three games. The Yellow Jackets' leading rusher, John Cogar, will mi!>!l the game with an injury, but Rochester does have plenty of depth to help ease the loss. Junior John Hunter will start in place of Cogar at one of the running back spots. Hunter gained 92 yards and scored two touchdowns m the Yellow Jackets win over Williams last weekend. Last year's starting quarterback Rick Parrinello, and Rich Magere round out the starting backfield. Rochester also features five ·returning lettermen in the offensive line. Bill Standera is the Yellow Jackets' quarterback. Standera has completed 28 of 54 passes this season for four touchdowns. He won the starting role by . beating out much het:alded junior Greg Conrad. The Rochester defense has given up 98 points in three games, including 61 points in an embarrassing season opening loss to Mt. _U~ion College of Ohio. fros·h Grid Opens Sat. By JAY HOBART could be the season to triumph again. · On the whole, both teams played a good defensive game but Union's offense Was far superior. Throughout most of the game Union kept the pressure on with excellent ball handling. The ·Garnet made 12 scoring attempts to Trinity's ~ . Bantam goalie Dick Wood, however, made several .g(.1od stops. The lone score of the contest came near the close of the first quarter when Dusty Richards tallied on an assist from Bill Porter. In the third quarter play got a little sloppy and Trinity threatened several times. Craig Barger The Gamet success can be attributed to the new octagonal play system that Coach McMurray has instituted. A Bantam player commented that this was the toughest offense· or defense that he'd ever encountered . Coach McMurray had much praise for Chris Swan and Art Fraser, but called the win a supreme team effort. He· cited the squad's endurance .as a crucial factor in the win. Prospects for a triumph tomorrow against Kings Point appear good as the Mariners are not as strong as the Bantams. Game time is at .2:30 p .. fu. The Gamet freshmen football team will open its 1970 season tomorrow against Trinity on Alexander Field at 2 p.m. Coach Bruce Allison, beginning his ~ thirteenth year as coach, sees this first game as a learning experience for his team in a definite rebuilding year for the frosh. The frosh gridders have had only nine days of practice including one scrimmage against the varsity. Because most of the teams the Dutchmen open against have one or two games under their belt, a freshmen team has yet to win an opening game. Coach Allison emphasizes that the team has not had enough practice time to learn to function properly together as a single unit. This year's team is smaller than past squads but it shows outstanding depth and speed in the backfield. Bob Hall is expected to start at quarterback. Coach Allison does not have set offensive and defensive squads, but will substitute frequently and use most of the players both ways. The Garnet yearlings will most likely· establish their running game and go to the air only when long yardage is needed. -HEADS UP! - Gamet co-captain Bobby Dodd ana an unidentified Trinity hooter attempt to head the ball during Wednesday's soccer contest on Daley Field, as Dutchmen Dusty Richard {center) and Bob Bernhardt (right) sprint over to help out. Richard scored the only goal of the game late in the first quarter as the Garnet triumphed in their season .opener, !-0. Outlook Bleak as Oneont·a Tests Frosh Booters Union's freshman soccer team opens its season this Saturday on the road against Oneonta. The traditional day of judgment will be two-fold for the team in that it will also mark the coaching debut of William Scalon. Coach Scalon comes to Union from Springfield College. There he played soccer and basketball, excelling for four years at the latter. After brief tenures in coaching at Holyoke Community College, and Springfield, Coach Scalon will handle the Gamet Freshman basketball and \ varsity go.lf st\uads , along with his soccer duties: The outlook for Saturday's game appears at the best, bleak. Every thread of creation is held in position By still other strands of things livi.ng In an earthly tapestry hung from the skyline Of smoldering oitie$ so gray and so vulgar© FROM A NEW ALBUM ON ' MEDIARTS RECORDS <Ill 1970 Mayday Music, Inc., Yahweh Tunes, Inc. Although relatively nothing is known about the Oneonta squad, the young Dutchmen have already been beset with complications. Last week a healthy, complete team was able to battle the varsity to a 0-0 standoff in the mud. The yearlings showed much desire and skill and the potential for a powerful team. However, since that time a complete turnabout has taken place. Two halfbacks have been lost for the season with knee injuries. while both the first and second string goalies are temporarily knocked out of action. Adding to these unpleasantries is the fact that highly touted defenseman Sandy Wilder has been moved up to the varsity. All of this leaves Scalon with quire a predicament. His coaching ability and inlagination will be severely tested as he attempts to fill gaping holes with a patchwork lineup •. The lineup for Saturday, as it stands now, will include Chuck Booth, Rob Wilder. Mark Brinkly and Rolf Wandell at the forwards; Marty Berman, Kevin Donnelly, an,j Steve Arnold at the halfbacks; and Dave Va,n Aran, John Perlstein, and Dave Kawecki at the fullbacks. The goalie spot is vacant with several innovations planned for that position. One is that several of the starters may alternate there during the course of the action or that Paul Weinbatim, a converted Bronx first baseman, may handle the chores. Either way, if hustle and desire mean anything (and they do), the Gamet and grey will certainly hold their own. Mats. There will be a meeting for all wrestling candidates, freshmen and varsity, on Tuesday, Oct. 13 at 7:30 p.m. All those interested but unable to attend should contact Coach Ronald Coleman.

half but e fourth what off the Barger. the new has this ever Chris supreme as a triumph as the Game the at Van The that the a the all 13 • ·Founded at Union CiJllege 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 1.3, 1970 . . VO~{JME 100, NUMBERs· PR!CE TWENTY CENTS . . Martin Raps Informally; WRU C Celebrates 50th Year, Maclay ASsist~ Davis . Festitdties .Planned for Birthday R. Gordon Bingham, Assistant The senes will take place m the to the President, has announced Hall House Lounge on weekday administration plans for a series evening!!. of discussions involving Bingham also announced the President Harold C. Martin and appointment of Mrs. Delores/ the students of the College~ Maclay , as Cd'ordinator of The discussions, the dates of Tutoring and as an Assistant in which will be announced as soon the Academic Opportunity as they are available, are (AOC) Program. . expected to be held in the near Mrs. Maclay will l;>e in charge future and will involve members of recruiting and organizing of the f~ctdty in addition to the students, faculty and faculty Presiaent. The talks will deal wives interested in participating with subjects having current in the tutorial program. The relevance .to the role of the program is designed to offer college as an institution. Among academic help to Union College the topics to be considered will students in need of tutoring. be \Politics and the College,\ Mrs. Maclay will assist Mr. and ''Social Life and the New. Norwood Davis who 1s director Student Center.\ of the AOC program. She will in Idol Presents U:p-di.ke Talk John Updike, author of novels (Rabbit R~n, The Centaur, Couples, and Be£h: A Book), . short stories, and poems, will · appear at Union in early November . at a reading sponsored by tht: IDOL and the Lectures and Concerts Committee. effect, be in charge of AOC at Union; now that t.lle program is active at six colleges, Davis is unable to devote his full efforts to program activities here. Mrs. Maclay will serve as liason between Davis, the program and the students. Her office is located on the second floor of the Geology Building (above the Rathskellar) and is now \open for business.\ The addition of Mrs. Maclay to the staff of the college will complete the takeover of the tutoring operation from the college department of cciurisellng. WRUC, the student-operated radio station, is celebrating its 50th anniversary, this week, thus reasserting its claim to fame as the first · lic.ensed station in America to schedule regular commercial broadcasting. · The station's actual birthday is tomorrow afternoon, but the celebration started Sunday and will end TI:mrsday evening. .Phil Robinson will recount the station's history on WR U C tomorrow night from 9 to 10:00 p.m. The anniversary ceremony will be covered by WRG B- TV (Channel6) and may possibiy get nationwide coverage by NBC. There will also be an Associated Press News Release concerning the event, today. . One of 'he highlights of the anniversary activities is a contest which began on Sunda,y .and continues through tomorrow night. Albums and movie passes are include<l in the prizes to be given away. Thursday night, beginning at 8, WRUC will hold a birthday party and broadcast live from D'Andreas in Saratoga. At 10 p.m. Joe 0' Andrea will buy a free round· for all thOse pre~ent at the party. At 10:30 the winner of - tne· gtand prize'in the contest. will be announced and an AM-FM receiver will be awarded. Details of the contest ate announced on WRUC every evening after 7:00 p.m. One of the highlights of the activities will be a reenactment of the famed .. Baby-Carriage\ incident to be held on State Street tomorrow afternoon. This was heralded as the first instance of portable radio reception in the nation's history. WRUC transmitted its first broadcast in 1920, whev. it was known by the call letters 2ADD. It signed on at 8:00 p.m. on October 14 of that year with a scheduled .program of popular music. The program was monitored on local receivers and at points as far away as Hartford, Cotmecticut, 105 miles from here. The initial broadcast ran from 8 p.m. to 8:15p.m. and from 8:18 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. The transmitter studio was in a shack behind the college's electrical engineering building with the antenna strung between two nearby trees. Students Wendell W. King and William J. McCraig did the first broadcast. Their first selection that evening was John Steel's \Tell Me Little Gypsy.\ The initial progr:;tm was the Updike has consented to an interView witli Ptof. Frank Gado a-nd several students, which will be taped and later p'Ublished as an issue of the IDOL. Students interested in participating should attend a meeting in the Phi Beta Kappa room of the library on Thursday, October 15 at 4:20 or contact Prof. Oado in the Humanities Building. Infirmary Medical . Haven for Ill, Union Care for Sickly Expanded Interviews go along with. a drive by the IDOL to re- introduce non-fiction into the magazine. Such a policy was abandoned in the mid-50's. Plans are now in the works for critical essays by students ranging from reflections on a year in Sweden to the writings. of W.B. Yeats. Any student interested in writing for the magazine should contact the editor via Student ·Activities. Prose and poetry, art and photography are now being accepted with a deadline of Nov. 15 for the next issue. The subcommittee on models of the ad hoe committee on governance will hold open meetings in the social sciences auditorium next week, on Tuesday during the tonvocation hour, .11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., and on Thursday evening, 7:30 to 9:00. The committee, chaired by political science professor Robert Sharlet will examine possible overall models of a college governance system. Later in the month other subcommittees will examine the question of how much representation each branch of the college should have. Any one who is interested in · spf!l\king _to the models group should come prepared with an outline of his remalrks which will be kept by the committee. Remarks should be limited to fifteen minutes in duration. If you do not wish to . speak but would like your views .to be considered by the committee, an outline should be submitted and will be examined. The . antiquated medical facilities of Union College, have undergon.e a complete transformation· during the past few montbs. Gone are the tiny rooms the all .. male bedrooms, the cramped offices, and in their place is an entirely new physical plant, a new doctor and new members of the nurses corps. Replacing Dr. Carroll are Or. Robert Gilston, a 1941 graduate of Union College and Dr. Gerardus Jameson. Dr. Jameson will be working mornings from 8:30-10:30, while Dr. Gilston's hours are 1-3 p.m. In addition to his daily two hour stay at the Sillman Hall infirmary. Dr. Gilston has a private practice in Amsterdam and is also an instructor at the Albany Medical School. Dr. Gilston described the new infirmary as a \first rate facility; the physical plant is really perfect.\ In addition to a huge waiting room there are two consultation rooms, a small lab, two offices and pharmacies at either end of the main hall. Upstairs there are six male beds, four female beds and one · isolation bed. In order to handle the added responsibility and problems that the 120 Union coeds will present to him daily, Dr. Gilston hopes to utilize help from the Albany Medical School. The women residents . and interns at the Medical School will assist those coeds who experience difficulty in adjusting to the pressures and differences they encounter in their first year at Union. Dr. Gilston feels that Union must .. build more bridges with local schools,\ for in this manner we can expand the services that Union can offer to the student. Although Union has no official po.licy concerning the distribution of birth control advice or devi~es, the college has arranged for a series of three seminars concerning contra- ceptives and related topics to begin within one month. Three women seniors at Albany Medical College will conduct the seminars, which will be strictly medical in content, rather than moral or ethical discussions. Ififormation will be available concerning V .D., various contraceptive devices, and abortions, and all questions should be completely answered during the course of the three seminars. According to Mrs. Sheila Beam, Assistant Dean of Students, the Health Service will• refer any Union coed to local gynecologists for advice concerning birth .control devices and information. W orne!l may be given the addresses of Planned Parenthood and other infor10ation centers in the area. Dr. Gilston pointed out that the Infirmary will not provide birth control pills, because he believes that it should be up to a specialist rather than a general practitioner to dispense such medication. . The Image, half of the Social Committee's Double Attraction for Homecoming Weekend will appear in Memorial Chapel on Saturday night at &30. .. livingston Taylor will be in concert at the Field Rouse on Friday mght, also at 8:30. The concert will be a blanket concert but only 1300 tickets are being sold. The Homecoming football game will be against R. P.I. on Saturday afternoon at 1:30 011 Alexander Field. \ first in a series of regularly scheduled Thursday evening concerts broadcast. Three were aired before Nov. 2, the date Pittsburgh's KDKA signed on with the results of the Harding- Cox election, which also was carreid over tht;! Union station. On Nov. 14, 1920, the station broadcast live the Hobart-Union football game from Geneva, the first time a sports event was aired for the general public. The station bad intended to broadcast the Union-Cornell game. from Ithaca on Oct. 16, 1920, but was forced to abandon that plan due to unfavorable weather conditions. On May 6; 1921, students disguised a radio receiver in a baby carriage and wheeled the carriage, with baby, through downtown Schenectady. The antenna was attached to the carriage, the tuning device was between the handles: next to the baby was the vacuum tube amplifier and components .... and strapped underneath the carriage were the storage batteries. lhe early development of radio at Union was largely the work of Charles Proteus Steinmetz, who from 1902 to 1913 was head of the electrical engineering department at the college. The college inherited equipment from the General Electric Co. in Schenectady, who had abandoned an early communications project in 1910. Union students that year established a .. wireless laboratory\ which c;une under the advisorship of Ernest J. Berg when he succeeded Steinmetz as electrical engineering chairman in 1913. As early as 1915, the college received a license listed under the name of E. M. Kinney, but because of a government ruling silencing all private stations during World War I, most of the development of the early station did not begin until 1918, Broadcasts in the first years of the station's operation were picked up as far as South Dakota and Georgia and on one occasion an alumnus' report to a reunion group of the University of Wisconsin, meeting in Madison, was broadcast live from Schenectady. With the rapid development .of privately owned stations, the college began curtailing its activities in 1923 and by the 1930's it had retreated to ham operator status. In 1934, the college failed to apply for a license from the Federal Communications Commission, established that year by the Federal Communications Act. As a regular broadcast vehicle, the station atrophied until 1940 when the call letters were changed to the present WR UC and the carrier current method of programming was adopted. Presently, the station's programming is transmitted by that m'thod, using low power levels fed directly into local telephohe lines and received only on the campus and at Skidmore College, 20 miles north in Saratoga Springs.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 13, 1970 Cars Off Campus Why, with all the rhetoric about noise and air pollution, are cars still allowed on campus? Ca!t't we start reform here, or do we have to put up with the abortions of Detroit? Aren't people and bicycles enough traffic on the narrow campus roadways? Are the faculty too lazy to walk from the peripheral parking lots, or must they drive and parktheir ugly, smelly, noisy cars' on the campus proper? And the students, for what purpose do they need to drive around campus? The Security Force is omnipresent enough to open gates, if they prove necessary, for a few delivery trucks, Let's make a start. Co nco Did you go to ·the Convocation today? If you filled the time with an inane \something better to do\ that's your choice. But if you .. didn't hear about it\ or \missed\ the announcements and posters, open your eyes and ears. At least learn that while you are here. Wallflowers --A Guest Editorial-- As a freshman girl at Union, my impression of the first co-ed class is not very complimentary. I feel that the girls are not taking proper advantage of the opportunities offered here. During orientation my impression of the freshman girls was very favorable. All were very congenial and welcomed anyone to talk to, even though they might be strangers. At the same time, there were no classes, no one worried about studying and there was unlimited opportunity to meet new people. However, once classes began, the number of introductions and new faces dropped drastically. Several girls slipped into a system of hibernation. they remain in their caves studying all week, emerge on weekends only to return on Sundays. I may be exagerating, but only to emphasize the fact that too many people have fallei_! into an existence where one day follows the next and they can't tell what happened Wednesday because it was so much like Tuesday and Thursday. Nixon Peace Plai1:No Answer· . . ~or Players in Vietnam Tragedy By ~ETER BICKERMAN notions of morality . and ideology are either At the outset, I would like to clarify ~ne point so unrelated to the realities or maintain only marginal that we at the newspaper do not have to go through impact. In other words, vivid phrases such as \self- the big hassle of being told that our news coverage determination,'' \pacification and is hopeleS$ly slanted. Thus, pkase remember that :·vietn~mizati~n .. ·are meani':lgless in th~t they a~e the following is a news analysis, and reflects the mvent1ons des1gn~d for. p\lbhc con~uniption {to wm opinion of no one but myself. Any person wishing the hearts a':ld . mmds of the warnors) rather than · to present ·a divergent viewpoint is perfectly honest d~scnp~1ons of -~he h~>rror of war. Per~a~s welcome to do so. the real msamty of this episode, from Amenca s The simplest . way to dismiss President Nixon's sta.ndpoilit, is that our leaders have f~llel) into the Wednesday night speech on Indochina would he to qmcksand be~ause. t!tey started to beheve, to so~e describe it as a rather typical pre-election day peace ext~nt, the Pl?Us chches that they were mouthing scare. In all fairness, though, it appears to this (thlw was particularly true of Lynda? Johnson.) observer that Nixon's intentions transcended the · Unfartunately, once these people m pewer started realization of political gain; the man (whom we to believe that t~e~ were in a. struggle against must remember is essentially a product of another predatory, monol~tb1c, Co~mumsm, they lost a era, and therefore possesses certain perceptions sense of ~erspectlve regardmg the true worth of which are not. congruent with the general mood of South VIetnam. youth) really wants peace, or at least \an honomble I do not have eneugh information to even peace.\ The five•point plan presented to the nation conjecture concerning the present goals and motives by .the President is not particularly original and it of the other side, but it is my belief that the goals of almost .certainly will not be implemented in the near the United States have not changed appreciably. future, yet even the staunchest doves should President Nixon, regardless of the talk of ceasefires, concede that this proposal is an improvement over and troop withdrawals, stili desires-· an ultimate the governmental rhetoric that has plagued us for solution which must involve a promWestern the past decade. government firmly in command in South Vietnam However, the hopes for true peace do not rest (not to mention Laos and Cambodia), Moreover, (nor have they ever) upon the wording of Nixon retains c~rtain underlying perceptions deliberately vague diplomatic feelers; the real regarding the importance of this goal which would question involves the· spirit, the willingness to seem to necessitate a long-term American.pres~nce · compromise on desired goals, of all sides involved in Southeast Asia. Thi&. is hardly an encouraging in this messy stalemate. The objectives of the major conclusion·for those who have pleaded that the self.:_ opponents seem fairly clear, once one gets beyond interest .of this nation would be served by thepropa,gandaverbiage. The United States wishes disengagement. to maintain a government in South Vietnman which So the war is likely to continue, and several more is friendly to the Western powers, and which can \peace plans\ will have their moments in the sun serve as a check upon the spreading influence of before being discarded. I would really like to sound hostile powers, perhaps the Soviet Union but most more encouraging, but it is important to understand particularly China. North Vietnam, mainly through the mentality facin~ us; after all, the obliteration of the effort of the native Vietcong, wishes to place in some 2,000 lives in a week of batt!~ is described as power a government inS Vietnam which is friendly merely as example of \moderate.\ casulties. To put to the North , and which perhaps may agree to it simply, Vietnam was not the invention of a cabal reunification of the Vietnamese nation. Each side of malicious politicians; it is rather another apparently believes that its ultimate aim is indication of the sickness which has always afflicted important enough to justify a protracted struggle. a segment of mankind,_ t~at being the lack of If one accepts this admittedly simplified view of essential respect for life. the situation, then one comes to the realization that I don't feel that it is the college's fault that some of the freshmen girls are so easily stereotyped. The school offers a great many activities in which the individual may participate. From my observations few girls have gone out of their way to become part of the college community. I admit that some To the Editor: assure a Button victory. If you price to $LOO. This step wEts campus clubs and organizations are not yet accustomed to the The contest between have time to canvass or to work considered before this term's first Congressmen Dan Button and in the office, call Button showings, but 75¢ was . a!ireed permanent presence of girls on campus, or are not yet aware Samuel Stratton for the 29th headquarters immediately (869- upon as a trial price. of their possible potentials. Because these clubs have been male- District's seat in the U.S. House 2295). Unfortunately, we find it oriented for so long it is up to the girls to make their talents of Representatives is one of David J. Snider impossible to continue with this and interests known; they would benefit as well as the college. national importance. A few Martin Lichterman policy. I hope that the obvious everyday routines and cliques will members of Congress have> Thomas R. Kershner The goal of Film lfaps is to . consistently supported anti-war Joseph Finkelstein bring as many good films .to soon dtssolve. For those people who are self-conscious and do measures. In a recent issue of Neal W. Allen campus as possible. The only not form friendships easily, cliques can be very harmful The Progressive, Garrison Robert G. Peck way such films can be brought to especially when we have such a limited number of girls. Nelson reveals that Dan Button Union is by increasing the charge In writing this, I don't mean to say that these faults are true of 1 supported 75% of the anti-war To the Editor: for admission. all girls. Such generalizations can be as dangerous as cliques measures before the House. Sam Due to the rising priCe of film The Film Haps: d .- . . , Stratton supported none of them. rentals, and fairly disappointing Mark Urman an routmes. My mtentton, however, lS to make each Stratton is a leader in what attendance by students and Robert A. Levine individual aware of her own faults in order to provoke some Nelson calls \Nixon's Silent faculty thus far, fi!m Haps Ron Berkowitz change in actions and attitudes. My only reservation in making House of Hawks.\ Button clearly . regrets having to raise admission , Michael Hollander these coml]lents is that they may be based on premature deserves the sul?po~ of pers~ns ··r----:-::-:. --=~~---------- ..... ....:~:.:..::. ..... judgments made in only three weeks time. I hope this is the case. who want peace m Vietnam. MAMA BlANC· ·HI'S . . - , . The Button-Stratton race is a . Ruth E. Morton, 74 close one. It is being watched ftE .. s· r. A. u·RA' N·r M•naging Editor William Ouzer News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Business Manager lloyd Biros Alit. News Editor Peter Bickerma n N•tlonal Adv. Mu. Neil Green ~~------- Qtonror • biruis Editor-in-Chief Peter J. Wein~old Execullwe Editor FeatlD'es Editor Henry J. Fe\in Daniel Schochet Sports Editor Photo&l'llphy Editor William J, Holleran Jody Saslow Contributing Ediloi' Layout Editor Richard L Kramer Doug Wong Asst. Sports Edil~r Mark Shugoll Asst. Bllilness M•na1ers Ant. Phoiogr•phy Editors Doug T~sch Charles bmg Doug Bmder Dave Conrey ST AFJ!': Mi~e Got~lieb, . M. Grossman. Michael Hollander. Ge 0 rge Kaplan. R<!bert A, levme, M1ke Meserole. Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton. Stu Moss, Machacl Rosenberg C~NDJDATE REPO~TERS~ Joseph .Achenbaum. BUrgress Brier. David ~nil, Anne qemmell, M•chf!el Goler,. Brenda Kaplan. Barb;sm McDon.ald. Ti)m Mltchl:ll, Hams Samuels, Abby Schutzer. Nina Wolff, Jay Hobart. Len Solomon George Bain, Marty Berman, Hal'Vey Civins ' ~------~-------------------- Published Tuesdays and Fridays during the school year by the studeni body of Union ~ollege, Sch~n~ady. 1'1· Y ., National Advertisi~g Representative, !'Ia tiona! Educat•onal Adverwmg Scrv1ce, Inc., College Publishers RepresentatiVe, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office. Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street., Schenectady. N.Y. 12301. 346- 2356. En.,tered in the Schenectady post offiee as Second Class Mail Matter, Subscrinuon 20 cents a copy. S6 a year delivered anywhere in the United Ststes. · - -- • f nationally as an indicator of K support for peace candidates. If 1.135 a··arret·t St.· Button loses, others may be · discouraged in their efforts to Real It 1• f d C k d restrain hawks like Stratton. If a aan 00 00 e T 0 Order Button wins, a powerful hawk We Cater To Stud,ents· will be removed from the U.S. House of Representatives. The Friendliest Place in Town Student_ suppor_t can help .-----..:::O.:..P.::E,::.N_T:..:0:....:3....!A 21 .!!:M!!.• ..!.F..!.R!.!'I!-• ..:l:;:;:lld~., . .::SA~T.:..· •:.._ __ __:· __ Nusbaum's \OUTFITTERS TO MEN and YOUNG MEN\ MOHAWK MALL BALLTOWN RD. ( SCHENECTADY. DOWNTOWN 447 STATE ST. ,, I t r f ( ~ 2 t] d e li a c g ( lc ~ aJ eJ u w ti tl F

nd ~ a's ng ed a of en ·Of rn ld . . . . CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 13, 1970 PAGE 3 Objectors' Exemptions· Reuealed: If there's, an Ill There's a Way . By GEORGE REEVES that those who cannot escape legally have several ·.~· .. ··~.: .. ·, ... , .- ··-- '\ ... ' .· ''•. Selene~ Center:. Fully Oeeup.1ed Next Spring Wben you were a freshman, you figured that the methods of delaying induction which often lead to war in Vietnam would be finished before you had to the board giving up on you. As well, the Nixon· worry about it. The noble sophomore decided he administration recently issued an executive order would go to prison rather than serve his country in t~at prohibits boards from calling men over twenty- its atrocities. The junior was ready to split . for ~1x ye~rs oJd ~u1less they have previously received an Canada when the Cambodian War broke. But, mduct10n notlce. facing gr(!.dqation, you decided that there are some A recent New York Times article described the really fine things you want to try to accomplish and technicalities which can aid the man about to be ~ou can't do it fr~m Canada or behind bars. You drafted. Most center around the thirty day limit on figure that it's time to look for the way out. has to ask for a review or appeal each time he is And it turns out~ that for all the times you catch reclassified or denied a desired change. The cold, or even with your 20-800 vision, and even rescheduling process . may take up to several though. you spend hours on top of hours talking ~onths. If the man is living in an area away from with your friends about how screwed up you-are h1s own board, he may have the location of his and how absurd it all is- for all this, they still are appeal transferred. In areas where people going to be after your ass come graduation. understand the draft regulations, boards are backed By MlCIJAEL GOLER Although nearly everyone on campus seems to be interested in when the n~;:w Science Center will be finis·hed, in an interview Manday afternoon, Professor Willard Roth, Chairman of the Biology Department said that he has no definite information as to when the buildings would be completed. However, he is very eager to start classes there in the winter term in order to alleviate the pressure on the continually increasing number· ·of stud-ents· taking ·courses in the Life Sciences. \There is Just no room for everyone to work,\ said Professor Roth, \and the only solution until the new Science Center is finished would . be t0 schedule more morning labs.\ before the first frost, the school grounds will become a total morass, As it is, the area is either much too dusty or much too muddy, and since the frost comes rather early in this area, action on the paving must come soon. The only reasonably definite statement as to the completion dates was given by Mr. Harold Usher, Director of Business and Facilities Operations, who said that part of the Center should be ready for use by the Biology and Chemistry Departments before · Christmas, with the rest of the buildings hopefqlly occupied by the end of winter term or the middle of spring term. At this time construction is nine months behind schedule, with the final coml'letion date being at least a year behind the original estimate. The ultimate problem in construction, of course, is the same labor problem which is facing the rest of the country. There ar~ not enough craftsmen and tradesmen to take care of the job, due to great competition with pressing construction problems {n the Tri-Cities area. All over the nation, draft counselling services up for years. .. . have been set up to help those who just don't feel !t: man finally . found to be physically and like going in the army, gaining conscientious sp1~tually fi~ to be m the army has the legal right to objector status, or finding some obscure physical dec1de . he Will ~eek a ~onscient!ous objector status defect which can be played up if caught in time. up unttl. the po1?t of h1s actual mduction. Recently, (For June graduates, that means now.) For allergies a selective ~e!\'ICe spokesman said that any .. men or other problems you might use, you've got to who were wilhng to go to great lengths to escape the establish.a history. draft would not make good soldiers anyway.\ Union students can contact Professor David Dealing with the draft is necessary, no matter Snider in his office at Old Chapel for information how ridiculous it may s~em. It is not hopeless. They about legal draft evasion. It is becoming apparent try to make the game fatr, and you can beat them, if · . know their rules. . ID cards will be distributed in Hale House Student Lounge Thursday, Oct. 15 and Friday, Oct. 16, 1:00 to 5:00p.m. THE UNION BOOK 1970 is being distributed for the rest of the week every day from 3 to 5 in the top floor of the old Schenectady library building. . . ' ,. ~ Seniors'who wish to ham their portraits taken for the 1971 UNION BOOK should sign up in the student activities office. This is the final week. All freshmen in Engineering and Computer Science are invited to the Freshmen-Faculty Social Hom sponsored by the Student Branch of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) at Union. PLACE: West College Library TIME: Wednesday, October 14, 4:30 p.m. Dean James Palmer, of the Center for Science and Engineering, said that he, too, had no news concerning the completion of construction. He went on · to talk about the department's space problems, saying, \There is no room left either for independent study work by students or for research projects by faculty members... ·f·l·l·m ·Hap· t p t Dean Pal~er raise4 · .. anoth.er : ... · ~· . . · •.. · ·. s ·o resen problem wh1ch must be 'Solved · · · · · ·· Any student who is interested in auditioning for the Union College Glee ·Club and has not done so within the past two weeks please report to Old Chapel at ·8:45 p.m. on Wednesday, October 14, 1970. There will be a meeting of the sailing club Wednesday at 4:30 in SS ll7. All those interested in' racing should attend. A faculty-student open house will be held on Wednesday, October 14, 1970 at 3:30 p.m. in Faculty Lounge, Social Science Building. Sherry, cider and chips will be served .. This invitation is open to all students on the campus. before Christmas . ~ . that.. of. . __ . _ . :::~~~~~~~::d .. ::::::.; t~\~~ Bog~rt in .. Beat · th8 Devil Coffeehou:se By M. PAUL ANDREWS So far this year the Union College ·coffeehouse in Nott Memorial has drawn more than 200 persons, which may exceed the total number of patrons during all of last spring term. The surge in attendance can be explained by a number of factors the dependable sound and lighting systems, the relaxed atmosphere of · Nott Memorial contrasted to the cramped and garish surrflundings of Old Chapel, ·and· the energetic new leadership of sophomores Rich Rosenblum and Paul Delfin. ~ By MARK URMAN and ROBERT A. LEVINE In 1954, after having made two fairly \straight\ international crime thrillers (\The Maltese Falcon\ and \Across the Pacific\) the team of Humphrey Bogart and his director John Huston daringly decided to parody themselves, and made \Beat The Devil\. Truman ~pate wrote the script from day to day, reading it aloud, each mormng, to the cast - Bogart, Gina Lollobrigida, Jennifer Jones, Peter 'Lorre, and Robert Morley. Pauline Kael of the New Yor~er has said that, ''Beat the Devil is a mess, but it is prohably the ~unmest mes~ - the sc~e~ball classic - of all time. It kidded itself, yet 1t succeeded m some ongtnal way by finding a style of its own.\ Bogart and his wife (Lollobrigida) are on a ship bound for Mrica. Along the way they enco~nter a gang of uranium swindlers (Morley and . Lotre). A coinpulsi~e, creative liar, humorously played by Jenmfer Jones, turns up w1th her husband, a bogus British lord. Then there's a shipwreck -· but need we go on? - . \Beat. the Devil\ is a truly unique film; a straight-faced spoof of the mternatt.onal thriller that killed off the whole genre. It will be presented by the Film Haps on Wednesday, October 14 at 4:00, 7:00, 9:00, and 11:00. All .showings will be in S.S. 016 and admission is $1.00.~ . The Newman Club is an associ_ation o( . Christians on campus, most of whom are Catholics. Worship and discussion have been and continue to be its main activity. Mass, or the Eucharistic Liturgy, is celebrated every Sunday evening at 7:00 p.m. in Old Chapel. Disussions and scripture readings are part of the service. A representative from Colgate University will be in the Placement Office on Friday, October 16, 1970 to interview seniors interested in their Master of Arts in Teaching Program. Sign up in advance in Placement Office. WRUC 50th Anniversary Birthday Party D'ANDREAS THURSDAY NIGHT OCT.l5 8 P.M. OPEN BAR 10 P.M. GRAND PRIZE AM-FM RECEIVER But the talent has also been of a finer grade. Last Saturday's performance featured excellent offerings from Eric Cherson on blues harp with his backup r------------------------- ..... T========================! group, Karen Andersen, a fine A , guitarist with a chilling, husky. .JUDO-KARATE SELF DEFENSE barroom-blues voice, and Barbara Micliela, a gifted 1247 WELCOMES THE songstress with looks to match. ENTIRE COLLEGE COMMUNITY This Friday the Coffeehouse again will provide sorne excellent (students, staff, and faculty) Start!ng Thurs. Oct. 15, 2 p.m. Wrestling Gym $35 for 3 montlls. Uniform Required, $15. Director: Tomoji Kidacbi, 5° Black Belt Instructors: entertainment by Tom Church, a If you would like to know more about 1247 just call us, Union student who, word has it, and tell us that you are coming· up to 1247... to eat, t.o Tsukasa Kida.chi, 4o Black Belt will soon leave here to go full• AI time professional. . party, or just to visit. We will be more than glad to show _ I Northern Japan Champion in JUDO the concert is free, following you 1247 Lenox Rd. Shigeru Kimura, 6° Black Belt the Livingston Taylor gig in the All Japan Champion in KARATE Fie)d Hoyse. Meet Thursday in WrestUng Gym ··~--~~~~============~~==~==========~ Europe Swings -15 days $282. Go by Heck 151 Barrett St. 34~3431

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 13, 1970 Concordy· Sports :.1 •.• Last Minute 'Jacket Rally Tops Grid; Offense Again Faits To ScoreT.D. Boot U·pends Kings , .Po·int ·for Second· Win In Row · Could tl:tis be the year of the Impossible Oreatri? The Union Sl;lccer team ma,y not make the NCAA playoffs - as anothel,' New York State squad, Hartwick, did last year ~ but after Saturday's thrilling, overtime win over Kings Point, prospects for a rare winning season for the Garnet hooters appear good. Yellow Jacket halfback Tony Serratore dove over the goal line from one yard out with only 33 seconds remaining in the game to send Union's football team to its second straight loss, a 6-3 decision to the University of Rochester on Saturday. The Garnet offense once again was held without a touchdown, and now has gone nine consecutive quarters without posting a six pointer. The two .teams. battled through a scoreless first :period in a steady rain, with Union finally getting on the scoreboard late in the' ha:lf. Rochester's Mike Parrinello fumbled a Jum Niver punt, and Pete Keller recovered on the Yellow Jacket 20 yard line. . The Garnet offense sputtered,. however, as it has done constantly as of late, and had to settle for a 37-yard Bobby Mitchell field goal with fifteen seconds to play in the second quarter. Union's mo!tt serious bid for a touchdown came in the third stanza. The Garnet drove 58 yards to the Rochester ]I -yard line, but were faced with a fourth and six situation. By MA.I{K SHUGO:LL. Rather than settle for a field Tile offense, however, goal and a possible 6o0 lead, continued its la·ckluster display. Coach George · Flood had bis The unit was held to 21 yards forces try for the first down; Joe passing yardage on a three for Kirkup got the call, but was ten ·showing, with one stopped two yards shy and interception. The attackers were Rochester took over, setting the provided with four fumbles stage for the hectic final minute. recovered by the .defense, but The Yellow Jackets drove deep could capitalize only on into Union territory, but stalled Mitchell's one field goal. on the Dutchmen 14 yard line. The Garnet gridders cail only On fourth and 13, the home team hope to get back to their early passed up an attempt to tie with season winning ways when they a field goal, and went for the 13 go .against R.P.I. in the annual yards and the win. homecoming game on Saturday Quarterback Greg Conrad, afternoon. replacing injured starter Bill The local rivals have met 68 Standera, arched a wobbly pass times since their initial meeting in to Bob Kulpinski that he hauled 1886, with Union holding a 51-12- in to give Rochester a first and 4 lead in the series, the oldest goal on the one yard line, On the football rivalry in New York next play the drama ended as State. The Engineers have not half back Tony Serratore won in this game since 1959, plunged over for the decisive. score. Once again the Garnet defense played superb football, baiting two Rochester drives inside the Union five yard line. The Yellow Jackets touchdown was only the second given up by the unit in their last fourteen quarters of action. Banta-ms fall To Runners By GREG HAMLIN Union :won its contest with the. Mariners 4-3, when co-captain :Bobby Dodd. ta:Ilied the tie-breaking goal at 2:42 of the second- overtime period and sent the cFowd home happy. The Gamet had taken a 2.0 halftime lead on a first period goal by An Fraser and a PaUl Martini second ·quarter tally, with an a&sist to Dusty Richards. The hooters lagged early in the second half, however, and saw the visitors from Long Island rally with a goal in the third period and two in the final regulation stanza to take a 3-2 lea:d. Not to be denied, the Garnet fought back with Fury :Scialdone setting up Pierre Roumain for the tying goal, to send the game into overtime and set the stage for Dodd's heroics. Impressive senior goalie Craig Barger made 24 saves in the Garnet nets in the winning effort; while the Kings Point goaltender~ Tom Doyle, turned aside ?3 shots in an evenly matched offehsive display. . ObViously, according to Coach -aob McMurray, the turning point in the game was Roumain's tying goal in the .fourth quarter ... From that point on,\ he commented,\~e controlled. the ball again.\ The Dutchmen outclassed the Mariners in terms .of skills but ran_ up against a well-discipli~ed and conditioned opponent. ·~They did_ wh,at we expected; they ran hard ~nd well,\ said McMurray. It was Union, however, which walked off with the triumph, its second; IGngs Point is winless in four tries. Twelve years have Gamet fans watehed and waited since the last winning soccer season, a.nd prospects for this season were dimmed by the loss of Dave Block. But first-year Coach McMurray has created a formidable team with the introduction of an octagonal strategy. The Garnet cross-country team opened its dual meet season Saturday with a convincing 20-42 rout of Trinity College. In notching their first victory of the fall campaign, the Dutchmen placed seven of their runners in the top ten. First-Half Outburst Wins For '74 Grid Ouer Trin·ity Sophomore Tim McCabe, a second place finisher in the contest, led the Union harriers, first play, Weizenthal again touring the five mile course in an passed to Duckett for six. This excellent time of 2.6:19. time the two point conversion Freshman Bob Nesbitt copped attempt was successful as the third spot, just four seconds We~ze11thal k~pr tpe ball and ran behind McCab~,. while last year's around rigntend. · front runner Bryant Moeckel The Garnet carry their 2-0 record into tomorrow's encounter at Hamilton College. Th.e ne~ home gi:l.ffie': is: against the RPI Engineers Saturday at high noon. Coach McMurray sees a good chance for a victory in Clinton, and a win over RPI will be another f¢ather in Union's cap. Rugged Oneonta Shades Freshmen···. Booters, 1-0 By Jay Hobart The Garnet freshman football team scored 15 points in the first half and held off a second half surge by j Trinity to defeat the Bantams 21-14 Friday on Alexander Field. A stingy Dutchman defense and a surprising offense accounted for Union's first opening game win in 21 years. The Garnet yearlings completely dominated the first half. On Union's third series of downs, Quarterback Bob Hall engineered a drive from the Union 39 yard line to the Bantam 16 in 4 plays .. Then, after a fumble, Hall threw his first pass of the day to Bob Alexander who was wide open in the end zone for the score. AI Albano added the extra point. In the second quarter, Union The Garnet defense was finished fourth in 26:55. outstanding, thwarting two Rounding out the top seven serious Trinity drives in the for Union were frosh Ed Wagner contest. Grey snared one Bantam and Paul Forbes (both clocked in pass at the Union 10 and ran it 27 :11) and seniors John Braham back to the 32 yard line. and Joe Burgess (27:57 and With less than a minute left to 2 8:19, respectively). play Trinity had the .ball at the The Dutchmen inaugurate Union 35, but on a second down their home campaign this play, Kevin Coughlan tackled the Saturday, meeting always Bantam quarterback for a 17- tough R.P.I. The Garnet harriers yard loss that all but assured a have not beaten an Engineer win for the Garnet. cross-country team in ten .years, Coach Bruce Allison and his b~t this season coq.Id be a squad will journey to Geneva this dtfferent story, according to third Friday; putting their 1..0 record ·year coac~ Ron Coleman. The on the line as they take on c~n~est will be run at the new Hobart. G~rling Centerl formerly the Ntskayuna Club. By MARTY BERMAN going to the Garnet and Grey 5-4. In a rugged, hard-hittirig game, At the outset of the second the Oneonta Junior Varsity eked half: Union . got hungry :and out a \1.:0 victory over the sevetat lead passes to the fo,.Ward yearling Dutchmen last Sautrday. line just failed to click. Oneonta's The score is indicative of how goalie made some fine plllys in close the game really was. thwarting the attempts. Oneonta, able to boast of only The length of the game and one American and few freshmen lack of depth caught up with the in their starting lineup, got on yearlings, . though, and Oneonta the scoreboard when Fernando (:ontrolled the rest of the game Ramirez made good · 'on .a completely. P1aying flatfooted, breakaway with 9:19 left in the Union was only able to muster a first half. His 8-yard boot beat few drives after 10:15 of the 3rd goalie Steve Arnold to the far period, with the last rally blunted side. with 2:18 left in the final stanza. Up until that time Union had StandoUts for Union were been able to get over its early Dave Van Arnam ·and Dave jitters and outplay Oneonta. Kawecki on defense, Kevin Shots on goal in the first half Donnelly at halfback, and stood at 10-8 in favor of the Arnold, who came up with 29 Dutchmen with corner kicks also saves in the nets. recovered a Trinity fumble at the F I A·- h. ,- 1 t :~'\~Z.~· ema e · t etiCS: tlnadequate ·,.A· ·tt·ract.J'•te'' seven plays before fullback Ken \1 Grey, a local boy from Linton ' High, plunged over from the one. Albano's yxtra point attempt was wide to the right. · The yearlings picked up two more points when a high pass from the Trinity center on a punt attempt sailed through the Bantam end zone. After Trinity kicked off to Union to open the second half, the Garnet scored their final touchdown. On the first play from scrimmage, Hall pitched out to Bruce Mathias after a fake into the line, · with Mathias scampering around left end for 73 yards. and the score. Again, Albano· · failed to add the conversion. Then jthe Bantam offense began to find the range. After a Union ful\'.lble at the Garnet 33, Trinity ''Quarterback Saul Weitenthal fired a 19-yard pass to Ron Puckett for the tally. The two point conversion attempt failed. Minutes later the Garnet again fumbled at t'heir own 39-yard line and Trinity c~pi~a,lized. On the By GEORGE BAIN As the male freshmen make their annual attempt to complete their physical education testing, the fernale athletic program is in a cramped state of fluctuation. Says Athletic Director George Flood, \We have done whatever we . can with the facilities we have. Our facilities are inadequate but attractive.\ Obviously. Antiquated Alumni Gymnasium struggles to accomodate 1600 male students, and the advent of coeducation has put an almost impossible strain on the building. The College, however, has made the effort to present girls with an attractive section of the Gym for a locker room. The north end of the first floor in the Gym is now off-limits to male athletes and is in the pr.ocess of being rennovated for the women. According to Flood, \We are way behind schedule with this new facility.\ but when completed, hopefully within two monthS, the girls' locker room will include better lighting facilities, more paint, carpeting, would be exclusively for women. and such conveniences as Plans call for volleyball, hairdryers. badminton, swimming, water The other problem facing the ballet, archery, modern dance, girls' athletic program is that of and slimnastics to be offered in sufficient interest. To encourage the winter if there is adequate participation, the College has interest. Mrs. Norton hopes for a hired a part-time physical large turnout and looks for education instructress, Mrs. \eager participation in the Margaret Norton, and she is program.\ sincerely trying to. interest Unfortunately, with such a women in the carry-over sports small number of girls currently that the Athletic Department is involved, Coach Flood sees offering. intramural activity only if there is .. It feels great to be here,\ says enough interest. There are no the charming Mrs. Norton. \We specific physical education have a nice variety of sports, and requirements for Union girls at it's a good opportunity to pick present, and varsity competion up some skills.\ for women is not in Union's This fall, the Athletic plans. Department is offering Russell Sage and Skidmore do swimming, golf, gymnastics, compete in such events as field archery, tennis, and scuba diving hockey, but, says Flood, \It all as carry-over activities for the depends on the interest we get women. Mrs. Norton stated that here. ln many places. interest none of these are compulsory declines after the freshmen year, and that all are available if but it might not happen here. It's sufficient numbers of girls are just too early to tell.\ interested; she promised that golf AlthoUgh Flood sees no place a·nd tennis would be for women in competition such coeducational. but gymnastics as. football, he is pleased with the advent ot coeducation and would like to see women helping the athletic teams in capacities such as assistant managers and statisticians. In fact, some girls have already assumed these roles here. Even the Athletic Department has adapted to coeducation at Union, and there are openings and opportunities for girls in collegiate athletics. As Coach Flood says,\ We are certainly not the last male holdout on campus.\ FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN Sfil\IICE One block from Brownell Gate

State for by to the ldone Tom y. int hl. up wl\at is last by a er at for a in -4. in he ch nt at \ VOLUME 100; NUMBER 6 .. -··- .. . -- .... ..,. - . - - . :PRICE. TW~NTV CENTS SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 16, 1970 Senate Starts With Dispute Evers Keynotes- Respect To Ease Racial· T·ension Uy LOUISS, SNJTKOFF Charles Evers, the first Black mayor of a Southern town since reconstruction, , speaking in Memorial -Chapel Tuesday morning, discussed vital aspects of the lives of blacks living in America today. determination, not with bombs and bullets.\ Speaking on the Black Panthers, Evers said that he could not condone any violent organization but that if the se'eds of hate in America were killed, there would be no panthers. \White Am~rica, ;, h.e said; \is lucky that all twenty:six; million bla·ck·folks aren't hatel'S:\ .:.- · · · · · By PETER DICKERMAN ThC? Student Senate capped a tumultuous session Tue~day night by voting to censure the College administration for the ''arbitrary\ nature of a number of committee appointments, b\lt coincident action by the College lias apparently averted a potentially serious conflict. The dispute centered around a list presented by the Committee on Committees to the administration last Spring which contained the names of. student · nominees to vacancies on various student-faculty committees. According to several senators, there existed an unwritten agreement to the effect that the administration would abide by this list.· For reasons which are still unclear, however, students who were not on the odginal list were named to several committee posts at the start of this semester. The Senate motion insisted upon an immediate reinstatement of the original nominees, and urged that those appointed do net serve until the situation is corrected. R. Gordon Bingham, Assistant to th~ President, revealed Wednesday .. -tflat: -some-· -ef. his- · actions bad been \in error,\ due to a \misunderstandin .regarding the previous agreement between the administration and the Committee on Committees. Bingham stated that he is in the process of notifying those students selected in error, and will ask them to step aside for the proper nominees. Furthermore, Mr. Bingham plans to appear before the Senate next Thursday to inform them of this administrative decision. In other ateas of interest, the Sena~e. which was meeting for the first time this year, took little decisive action. The legislative body did vote to void the results of this fall~s class officer elections, and an amendment proposing abolition of class offices was held over to the next meeting fo.r further consideration. A motion favoring abolition of the foreign language requirement was not dealt with, while a motion attacking the hew policy of charging admission for students' guests at football games was passed. T.he Senate also agreed to sponsor the Red Cross blood drive, scheduled for October 27 and 28. Tax Committee Chairman Roy Weise reported to the Senate on financial matters, and emphasized that campus groups must submit budgetary reque~ts to the Tax Committee immediately, if they have not already done so. Senate Vice- President Geoff Walker spoke of his experience as the Union representative to the National Student Association convention, held during the summer. Before adjournment, President Walter Spencer announced that President Harold Martin would address the Senate at its meeting on Thursday. Palmer Gets New Post, Cross-Registration $rows Dr. James D. Palmer, Dean of the Center for Science and Engineering, was elected chairman of The Hudson- MohawK Association of ·colleges and Universities. Results of the election held on October 13, were announced by Robert M. Briber, executive director of the association. Dr. Palmer succeeds Dr. Stephen E. Wiberley, Vice Provost and Dean of the Graduate School at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Dr. Wiberley, the association's first chairman, will remain a member of the board. In order to ease racial tension, said the Mayor:: of Fayette, Mississippi, we must stop our desire to destroy and we must \accept people for what they are, not for their color.\ Evers urged that -We believe in \love and respect' because hate destroys the person himself, and White Racism is destroying the world.\ The American system, said Evers, projects hate, denial, and discrimination, and war has deStroyed all that we have lived for. He. went on to place the burden of determining America's future over the next ten or twenty years on the \youth . of today.\ Youth can help, he said, merely by respecting each other and trying to understand one another. Evers went on to say that a major fault of the system is that it spends money te destroy rather than to build. \We spend $82 million a day in Vietnam,\ said Evers. \That's $82 million a day just to kill somebody. Imagine what that money could do in Schenectady, ot in New York City or in Fayette; if it were used toward training and voter registration.\ Our priorities are wrong, he said, and we must become democratic ourselves before we worry about anybody ·else. ''Baby Carriage Incident\ History Repeats Itself A summary of fall term cross- registration statistics was announced at the meeting, the association's first as a formally chartered organization. They were deemed significant because they represented an excellent spread of interest. \Albany Law School is sending twelve students to RPI this semester, for such courses as Industrial Relations, and Management Problems Under Regulation and Taxation,\ Bribf:r reportf:d, \and this is far more than in the past. Evers, who was born in Mississippi in 1923, attacked the current administration. He urged that voters \elect people w.ho will . not worry about re-election, but · about doing what's right for the people.... Martin, Bobby, John and my brother Medgar wanted to do what was right and they were killed.'' We need, he said, more prople who are not afraid to fight for what they think is right and we must be willing to · pay the same price. Evers declared that we need a leader who will t-ruly seek to . bring us together, rather than to lead us apart 1 'Anyone who calls whites with long hair \Bums\ and blacks \undesirables said Evers, ''is not bringing people to get her.\ He emphasized that black people are tired of such leadership and tired of being denied. \Blacks have even been denied the right to be a man, to be a human being. In Mississippi we are kept ignorant, penniless and afraid. If you white folks had to suffer for just one day as we suffer all out lives, I think you would understand.\ As a black mayor in the South; Evers hopes to change the denial an:d disctimin~tion, and make · Fayette a better place for: everybody. \We want to change · it with votes, dollars and He also spoke of the double ·standard. of justice existing in American society. If a man commits a crime, Evers said; he should receive punishment not because he has black skin or long hair, but because he is guilty. He urged that everybody take a stand and work for \enforcement not excuses, and inclusion not exclusion.\ ''I will use my power as mayor to see that blacks and whites in Fayette get justice and equality,\ he said. \You can't have a community _ withou~ _law and Cont'd on Page 7 By DAVID CONTI History repeated itself Wednesday a-fternoon when. WR UC personnel arrived in front of the Schenectady City Hall, seemingly attired for Halloween, to commemorate an incident in WRUC's rich heritage. The men in 1920 garb were (here to recreate the \Baby Carriage Incident of 1921\ in which Union men rigged what is thought to be the first portable radio into a baby carriage (complete with baby) and wheeled it up and down State Street. The radio picked up the . - . Tour, de Union Bike. Race Speedsters Start Sunday The Tour de Union Bicycle. Race will be held Sunday, O~tober 19, at 1:00 p.m. regardless of weather conditions. Only 20 teams were expected to r:egister and already 22 have signed on. The race is open to all students, faculty, and members of the administration_ who are able to ·organize a four-man team. Registration continues through Saturday morning, Those wishing to enter should contact Stu Lazarus at 346- ,6782. · Several unusual teams have already registered. Mrs. M;;.ma is racing with two tandem bikes and Father Murphy will race with a little help from his \Friend\. Bookies comment that the pre-race favorite is team #l consisting of Blazes Boylan, Eddie Green, and the dynamic duo, the Horwaths. A tenuous course has been outlined for the cyclists to follow. It begins at the main gate, encircles library field, the Social Sciences Building, the Engineering Center and the tennis courts. There will be handicaps to compensate for the types of bicycles used by each team. The race, to be started by President Martin, will be covered by WRGB and WiEN. The winning team shall be awarded a trophy donated by Fox. and Ml!rphy's Sporting CJ:oods store. signal being broadcast by the Union radio station. In 1921, music coming out of a baby carriage being wheeled on a city street amazed and startled many people. Bob Ditter, president of WR. UC, stated that the idea of Wednesday's restaging was to allow local media to photograph and film the event for newspaper and television stories featuring WRUC. A photpgraph of the famous carriage taken in front of City Hall in 1921, shows a group of people, including two policemen collected around the baby and the carriage; it was that scene that was recreated. Dave Robbins described the original carriage as having an antenna strung between two bamboo poles attached to the body of the carriage. The antenna received WRUC's signal which was then transmitted over the air; today, however, the signal is sent through wires to college buildings. An old green carriage was used for Wednesday's presentation. A gentleman who preferred to remain anonymous played the part of the woman wheeling the carriage. Resplendent in dress, furs, and hat, he stated that the presentation was, in part, a protest against the fact that WRUC is no longer able to broadcast over the air. A portable ra-dio receiver on State Street in 1921 could monitor the WRU C broadcast - in 1970 this is no longer possible. \Russell Sage College and RPI continue to have extensive and useful e;'whanges,\ he said. \Fifty nine students are involved this semester. Twenty six from RPI are taking such courses as Adolescent Psychology; and Weather and Climate at Sage. Thirty three Sage students are taking courses at RPI in Data Pro c e s s i n g, Cultural Anthro- pology, Oriental Philosophy and other subjects. \To date, 117 students have 'cross-registered to take 13 2 courses totaling about 400 credit hours. \Students are finding that appropriate courses, not offered at their own colleges are available at member colleges and, consequently, they are able to strengthen their educations,\ the director said. \This cooperation is certain to strengthen all of the member institutions.\ The Hudson-Mohawk 1\ssociation was granted an absolute charter by the Regents of the State of New York in July. The nine members are the Albany College of Pharmacy, Albany Law School, Albany Medical Cellege, The College ljlf Saint Rose, Rensselaer . Polytechnic Institute, Russell Sage College, Siena College, Skidmore College and Union College.

.• :PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 16, 1970 Arts at Union?. Perhaps in th~ wake of the imminent Center II moves a· modicum of space and used equipment can be found for the Arts Department. In spite of sqientific oppre,ssion. the· Arts are a major source of humanizing balance for the. campus. Scattered around campus in a few extra rooms and begrudged space are the studios for the Art: Department. While their students must learn to create in: the most depressing of atmospheres, others get new rooms for the sole purpose of listening to lectures. ls this the order of priorities and what the college stands for? . The Mountebanks, with more than fifty members, need. at least a greater quantity of antiquated equipment for their productions. The Nott Memorial roof leaks rain and pigeonst making the third floor not only unuseable but a· health hazard. . . . . . . · The projectors in SS016 seldom work well, the sound system makes 'dialogues all but unintelligible, the poor quality lenses don't focus, the screen is torn, some films must be shown distorted for lack of a ·cinemascope lens; and the list goes on and on. There are conflicting reports · from the administration as to whether this equipment has been ordered or is on order at all. Only the music room of the library is available for traveling art exhibits, if they are small. A dozen prints by Norman Ives are there now. . . Heroin; The Campus Policy By REID RUSSELL \I have heard rumors of heroin on campus whereas previously, I had heard nothing at all about it.\ - Dean Malloy Heroin has become a fact of life on many campusel! in America. It is no longer a shock to many when they discover that a close friend has died of an accidental or intentional overdose. It is unrealistic to expect Union will remain untouched, if it has up to this. point. . Heroin is diffe.rent from other psychedelics in that instead of intensifying the experience, it provides a total escape from any given situation. People who have had morphine injections in hospitals relate that they have gone from a state .of almost hysterical fear to blissful apathy.· Rumors seem to indicate that the use of heroin is increasing on campus. With regard to heroin use, and drug use in general, Dean Malloy stated .that the college cannot condone it but that it tries to deal with it in two ways: I. Union tries to make known the facts of drug usage to its students. This is accomplished during orientation, through the student counselling by resident advisors and by the establishment .of a Special Committee on Drug Abuse, comprised of stuqents, faculty, and administration, which published a statement last year. 2. The college provides help (medical and/ or counseling) to any student who · admits he has a drug problem and is willing to do something about it. Dean Malloy related that he has had experiences with students who have reported using marijuana and LSD, but none with admitted heroin users. However, he added that heroin users would not be treated any differently from users of other drugs. He defended the {:ollege's policy of not reporting individual users by theorizing that the college has no obligation to report drug abuse and that the college's purpose is to educate. Dr. Robert Gilston, Union's new :school ;physician, reported SI{Veral instances of patients admitting they used marijuana but a complete absence of hard drug usage ad.mittees. Gilston\ said that he is not unaware of the drug problem here but that being new, his experience is limited. He did not know of any college position on · drugs at the time of our conversation. Thus, when confronted with the hypothetical question of what would he do if a heroin user came to him and asked for he\p, he based his ·reply on the inter- relationship of a doctor and his patient. Dr. Gilston asserted that if the patient. asked for help, and was sincere about it, then he would receive aid. Warning that the doctor's office is not a sanctuary ·for · evading the la:w, Gilston said that a· doctor must .be careful not to be. conned . into giving assistan~e whete medical ·assistance· : is not really desired, such as· in the case·'of a -Person trying to beat a felony tap because of a medical reason. However, help is Certainly available if a P.atient really needs it and wants 'it. l{e went on. to . sa~ . that he believes ·the eventual solution to . the drug problem will com~ ~hen ·th~. ~x: · users band together to fight it. . .. It has been established that help can be , ·found for those wigh a drug problem. but_ what about the original .question? Is . heroin uses on the rise? . Only your pusher knows fo'l' sure .. Varied Entertainment This Year By DONNA HINCHER M•napng Editor William Ouler· Nem Editor Louis S. Snit'koff lluiJness M•naeer Lloyd Dims Asst. News Editor Peter·Bick~rman ·N•tfon.t Ad~. Mer. Editor-in-Chief Pet~rJ. Weingold Futures Editor Daniel Schochet and ANNE GEMMELL Time was, when Union was a 'place' )to· leave .. on w¢'ek-eJ:tds. . · . Friday night witnessed ·the · niass Executive Editor exodus of all self-respecting Henry G. Fein · · students, and none returned until Sjioiii-F.difcH---- to appeal to a broad range of people. It is able to take risks this year because the Committee on Committees . has allotted it a budget of $18,000, taken from the Student Activities Fee .. Such action has made it possible to bring in lesser known performers, providing all-round enter- tainment. Thus folk, rock, jazz, revival, and jazz-rock are all taken into consideration by the · Social Committee, which· consults such organizations as • the Black Alliance ·and· Jazz Workshop before making its·· decisions. · limitations of the Social Committee. They failed to ·take into consideration. such elementary facts .as · availability and cost of perfonners). Groups are usually. booked th~ough ,the College Entertainment Agency in New Yotk, whioh·receiv~s-·1-Go/'U\of Pllotoaraphy Editor Jody Saslow Layout Editor Doug Wong William J. Holleran late Sunday night. There were, of the .gross. . This year's Secial Committe.e recognizes as its guiding ptincipie Contributin& Edkor course, a few exceptions - Richard l. Kramer Union's traditional answer to Asst. Spotts Editor • ·boredom consisted of The Three Mark Sbugoll Big Weekends; nothing more, · \a responsibility to educate the campus\ as well ·as to_ provide entertainment fo.r. , these \interested· in music·at alL\ In the words of Phil Gald'ston, · \Out culture is . as good . as or better than . most,. · and deserves a constant outlet.\ Neil Green Am. Business M••eers Doug-Tosl:i • OQ·~g. Binder Asst. PhotOinplly Editors sometimes less. Charles Long · Dave Conrey However, Union has now STAFF: Les Goldman, Joseph Achenbaum, David Conti, Greg Hamlin, Bruce Garber, Mike Gottlieb, M. Grossman, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan, Robert A. Levine, Mike Meserole, Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Michael Rosenberg CANDIDATE REPORTERS: Burgess Brier, Anne Gemmell, Michael Goler, Brenda Kaplan, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell, Harris Samuels, Abby Schutzet, Nina Wolff, Jay Hobart, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Harvey Civins Published T~ys and Fridays during the sehOol year by the student .,<X!Y of · Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertisi~g Representative. '!'latJonal Educational Advertising Service, Inc.. College Pubhshers Representauv~. ~60 ·Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Oym, Union College, Pubhcat1on OffiCe-, The World Publications. 771 State Street .. Schenectady, N.Y. 1?307, 346- 2356. Entered in· the .Schenectady post office as Second Class Mall Matter, Subscription 20 cen!S a.coPY· $6 a year' delivered anywhere in the United ~tates. To the Editor, all, deprived of my stickshift, In the last issue, a well- how am I going to get suxual intentioned, but dangerous, do- satisfaction. gooder argued that automobiles Thirdly, and the most should not be permitted on our grievious of all, you campus. This insane suggestion characterized cars as smelly and must not go undisputed; ·ugly. Bullshit. My car has been therefore I am going to dispute it. described by some of the most First, how am I, a student original minds in the country as cruelly tossed off-campus, \cute.'' supposed to attend classes at the If Patrick Henry were .aliw proper time after pushing the ten- and living at Union, I'm sure he minute button on my alarm clock would have screamed, \Give me for the third time? Answer that, my car or give me death.\ I am nature boy? not willing to go that far, but just Secondly, the harrangue has think what Patrick Henry would shown an incredible insensitivity have done to you guys. that shocked me, despite the fact Dick Bohenek, '72 that Weingold is the editor. After entered a new era, an era ushered in by the Social Committee. Its goal, according to chairman Phil Galdston, is to provide a viable and continuing social life for Union students, and it is not motivated by the need to make a profit. Rather, the committee is ready and willing, if necessary, to lose money in order to bring to Union a variety of entertainment Student opinion also plays a role in the selection of groups; i.e., two student polls were taken by the committee last year. (The value of these polls was,. however, negligible, as most students had no idea of the Friday Night - Right After The Livingston Taylor Concert A FREE COFFEEHOUSE ** STARRING ** TOM CHURCH and Friends Coffee, Cider, & Surprises All This for Free In Nott Memorial The Fall.ter.m concert schedule · includes: Livingston Taylor-Friday, Oct. 16, 8:30, in the Field Ho11se. Blues Image-Satur.day, Oct. 17, 8:30, in Memorial Chapel. Rahs~a.n Roland Kirk- Saturday, Oct. 31, 8:30, in Memorial Chapel. Workshop ~ 4:30 in SS016, Sha-Na-Na..;Saturday,. Nov.- 7, 8:30, in Memorial_ Chapel. Jethro Tuli-Friday, Nov. 13,' 8:30, in the Field House. r·--F~;-;;-~;;-~;~~---1 : and Hardware Needs t· ! & Cleaning Supplies I • See Us I • • . f CAPITOL PAINT & l 1 HARDWARE CO. • • • • • • t 1259 State St. Schenectady.:· 1 374-4123 · 1 1 ! Joseph M. Ziffer & Sons, Inc. t • - . t ~.~-~-~-~·~~·~~--~~~~-~~ DIAMANTE'S SUMMER EUROPE $187. Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked lialian Food in Out C~mfortoble Dining Room Opp, The Brownell Gate on.~oH Street Open Daily I 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to ' A.M. -· CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES - opportunities for students & educ. staff of your University or t 'nil'. group to obtain low-cost travel to Europe. · ~>-md·trip prices as low as $187 for minimum ·-~~P of 40. · ~ !'i. L L: Uni· Travel Corp., Transatlantic airlines' agent (617) 599·0287 .12 Pine St ....... Swampscott, Mass. 01907

,, rt t. : . o take such the in the r-o.vide those In the \Out better a Oct. 17, in ~ . 13,' , : • •· • r I • &I :· . • d •. Y·t , I • t _,_.J .. A deceased member of third floor platoon of Nott Memorial. At last cou,'n(, several hundred of his friends and other. members of his family are still living in the building, creating a health hazard and a great deal of annoyance among actors and patrons in the theatre. (Photo by Scott Gordon) Mounties· Look On As Pigeons Do ''Woycezk'' By PETER J. WEINGOLD The \Mountebanks even though known to have. prod:uced _ an occasionally rotten play, are not responsi}?le for the present smell emanating· from the Nott Memorial theater. Armed with gas masks anc;l wide brimmed panama hats a CONCORDY reporter and photographer were conducted on a guided- tour of the top floor of the theater by Steve Katz, President of the college _ acting group, to get rtght on top of the story. . . It sc;:ems that aiOiig with most other colle.ge traditio.ns, reverence for Dr. Nott has · disappeared, and his detractors, who aU along claimed he , had bats in ~s belfry have now put thousands of pigeons in. hiS. dome.- Sounding liJ~e some ethereal symphony, the pigeons were only mildly disturbed at our intrusion into their sanctuary, and only one rather. chickenly bird. chose to exit thtough one of the multitude of holes in the ceiling. All, however, was not beautiful music and --happy community. With toilet facilities lacking· and the birds obeying nature's · and Newton's laws, the floor has been covered with a semi-crunchy coating of bird droppings. The smell is uhbearabl~ and any !'Mountebank\ artifacts which have inadve(tantly been placed on what was at one time the main stack room of the college library, have been ~rmanently ruined. Access to the lighting grid . above the stage is only by means of a balcony on the top floor, and although the \Mounties\ have made a valiant attempt to cover the grid with tarps when it's not being worked on, this is at best makeshift. Pigeons and water leaking through the roof and tarps have disturbed two performances and several rehearsals. -he adjusted accurately.' A new board would cost about forty thousand dollars~ according to Katz, who ,said that he would .settle for the present board being substantially fixed. liowever, he pointed out that a 'previous rehabilitation of the board three years ago had fixed the control for only about six months. The physical plan.t :g.otwithstanding, the \Mounties\ have gotten off to 'an excellent start with the recruiting of some eighty new actors and technici;'!ns, primarily from the freshman class. Katz attributed some of this success to an orientation production of \The Dumbwaiter\ by Harpld .Pinter which exposed. the entire freshman class to a first rate drama production. However,. because of scheduling conflicts with the soci_a:l committee's calendar, the next play, Georg Buchner's \Woycezk\ will be the only play of tlie term and will be presented on Nov: 12, 13, 14 and also Nov. 19; 20, 21. The_ play; which will be directed by Henry Weil, is short (only about an hour and a quarter) but involves twenty-six cast members and a large number of persons in the technical crews. Katz commented that Weil is the pnly instructor in the drama department, which i11 th~ only arts department to have fewer than two faculty members. All of Mr. Weil's courses (he is teaching five) are oversubscribed and in addition he is in charge of the Mountebanks.. From a professional point of view, added Katz, it leads· to a limited education to be instructed by only one person, no matter how · competent he is. When it comes right down to it the activities of the pigeons in Nott Memorial are symbolic of the administration's policy toward the arts here in general. . BLITHER Katz · said that requests, through Dean of Students Edward Malloy, and the maintenance department, for action on fixing the dome have SENIORS: The Union Book been fruitless and that the - 1971 is not able to photograph or administration has no plans for accept senior pic~ures other than fixing Nott's slightly holy crown, those done by Stevens Studios. as of now. Pictures will be taken Tuesday \With a new theatre at least through Friday of next week. four years away,\ said Katz, \We Sign up as soon as possible in the hope that the administration will Stud,ent Activities office. realize , that serious stop-gap * * * * measures are needed in the very The Newman Club is an near future.\ association of Christians on Not only has the shell. of the campus, most of · whom are . theatre deteriorated but the \light Catholics. Worship and board,\ the central control for all discussion have been and theatre .lights, is . no) longer continue to be its maita activity. accurately working, The board, ~ass, or the Eucharistic Liturgy comp·osed · of 'twen.ty-four ts celebrated every Sunday at 7 autotratisformers; gert~r:tdly\ has p.m. in Old Chapel. Discussion twenty· circuits working at most and scripture readings are part of and ~h~ ID;aj~rity of th~se cannot the service. CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 16, 1970 PAGE 3 Meserole On Television (Editor's Note: Tbis is the first of a two part .series) The brand new television season has arrived, and despite all the network promises of relevence, life like it is, and youth- orientation, it could be worse. If you consider the fact that all cigarette advertising is going off the air as of January 2, the 1970- 71 season was an overwhelming success before it even started. After a few of those agonizing Winston commercials, Hugh Hefner at a \Playboy After Dark\ party comes on like Abba Eban at the U.N. You could moan and groan for days about something being seriously askew with an industry that cancels \My World And Welcome To It\ and renews Monty Hall and his money- grabbing Middle Americans, but television has never been accused of being overly creative. So we're stuck with what the Big Boys at CBS, NB~ and ABC figure, in their infi:rfite wisdom, the public wants. What the public wants lies SOIJlewhere between \60 Minutes'' and \Green Acres.\ But the intention here is to attempt a listing of the best of what the .public is given and a brief rundown of the worst it is subjected to. Listings have been drawn up under the categories of dmma, comedy, variety, standing ovations, theme songs, and basket cases. Which gives us what? DRAMA If any progress has been on television, it's been made here. In one six day · ~tretch, \Marcus Welby, M.D.,\ \Medical Center,\ and \The Bold Ones\ gave us venereal d~sease, homosexuality, and an Jabortion. SlJfe, one week later they were back curing city-wide outbreaks of the Plague, but in those six days the focus was on problems that happen every day but hardly ever see exposure on the Tube. Another of those problems, drugs, is a sure-fire crowd-pleaser for most dramas, but any good the anti-drug blitz achieyes may be whipped out by overexposure. Doc Welby (Robert Young) is still the favorite in this corner. You almost want him to tell you you've got any one of four incurable diseases, just so he can lay some charming bedside manner on you. \Medical Center\ is the other strong doctor-patient series, which makes up for its lack of homespun practice techniques with a lot of serious scrubbing-up for surgery. One-third of \The Bold Ones\ occurs in the hospital, but the strength of this show is exercised in the courtroom and the United States Senate. In the Senate especially (where Hal Holbrook stars as Birch Bayh), because of the mere fact that this is an area that TV hopefully won't be too timid to diginto .. \High Chaparral,\ \Mannix and \Mission: Impossible\ remain popular as Mano and Buck still mix it up at the Cannon ranch, Joe Mannix still gets the hell knocked out .of himself ten times a week, and (are you ready?) Willy, the big guy, gets his vocabulary boosted to . twenty, sometimes thirty, words per impossible mission. Of the new shows, \The Storefront Lawyers,\ stocked with relevence but a little unreal in court, is nonetheless refreshing in its preoccupation with legal matters that only a free law office (on TV) in the ghetto could undertake. The three storefront counselors are y(mng, handsome, energetic and like to run arm in arm down main thoroughfares in Los Angeles, \The Most Deadly Game\ marks the return .of George Maharis (Route 66), the television comeback qf beautiful Yvette Mimieux, and the resurrection from the dead of Ralph Bellamy (who passed away on \The Survivors\ last year). This is a classy whodunit complete with \N. Y.P.D.\ style drums at chase time. Burt Reynolds, busted from the New York City police force after \Hawk\ failed to apprehend a strong Neilsen rating, is now pounding a detective's beat in California as ''Dan August.\ But the real action is back in Fun City where \McCloud'' (part of NBC's new \4 In One\) shifts Dennis Weaver from fighting copperheads on the Mesa, to busting some crime in the concrete jungle. Although the scrips aren't the greatest, Weaver's Sam McCloud is the most genuine cHaracter on the Tube. \There ye go.\ Alumni Meets Stud_,nts, Generation Gap Gouged COMEDY If you've checked out the list in this category, your mind has probably been blown by #5. Yet \My Three Sons\ is entitled to some heavy viewing this season because Chip (Stanley Livingston) is getting married. Gee whiz, seems like only a few years ago that Chip~ resplendent in Dr. Denton's, was playing cheCkers with William Frawley while Tim Consodine was getting ByLES GOLDMAN ·Walter Spencer, president of the Student Senate, in an interview with Concordiensis last evening told of a meeting with eight Union College alumni from the Schenectady area. Also . present at this meeting were Jonathan Pearson III and Terry McManus. · The .m'eeting, Spencer indicated, came about through an unsolicited invitation from one of the alumni to discuss his concerns about the college. Spencer further stated that both he and McManus had gone to this meeting \as individuals ·representing only themselves.\ The graduates expressed concern over many of the events that occurred last spring durfng the student strike. They wanted to know why the students had marched through downtown Schenectady to G.E. Spencer and McManus, after explaining the concern of the students about the Vietnam War, posed a rhetorical question to the alumni of what the difference would be between the students marching to G.E. and the workers marching on G.E. during the recent strike. Some of the grai:ls, on the other hand, complimented Union students for their conduct during the strike and for their efforts in avoiding violence. Spencer felt that many of the alumni did not really know of the organizations on campus. He said \they probably were not aware that such things as Strike Central even existed.\ The alumni were also concerned about student dress and hair length. ' Spencer and McManus both indicated to the graduates that these two areas were personal matters and the college did not really have the right to control them. The Alumni voiced concern over the presence of drugs and their use on campus. The spruced up fot his first Prom. students present -asked them to The big news, .however, is that imagine what their feelings would Macy Tyler Moore is back on the be if the college found their own screen, playing a 30 year old son or daughter using marijuana single girl working for a TV and what. actiollS they would station in Minneapolis. Along want the college to take? with Flip Wilson this is the Some ~lumni also were funniest new show on television . concerned over the political MTM, herself, is· ·run to look at, views of the faculty. Spencer but she isn't the star of her own stated that while in his Center show. She ·is surrounded by a (Center I) \most of the faculty Spencer Tracy-type boss, a could probably be classified as bumbling news anchorman who left of center, faculty members can't pronounce Chicago let could hold these views without alone Pnompenh, a neighbor forcing them on the students.\ who raises her 11-yeat old Another graduate concern was daughter strictly by the modern that the dormitory rooms are too book, and a best friend named dirty. In answer to this Spencer, Rhoda Morganstern (Valerie McManus, and Pearson pointed Harper) who dresses dummies at out that maids no longet clean a department store. This is the dorm rooms, aad thus they are fastest half hour on the Tube harder to keep clean than they when it's right. were years ago. ABC couldn't sign Spiro One final concern of the Agnew and Charlie Goodell, but alumni was the use of profanity they did secure Jack Klugman in college publications such as and Tony Randall to play the the . SYMPOSIUM. They roles of Oscar and Felix in Neil specifically cited the use of the Simon's \The Odd Couple\ and word \bullshit\ in an article by they are great together. Herschel Ra Kri J Bernardi (Lt. Jacoby and Charlie y se, r . In answer to a question the Tuna) in \Arnie\ and Andy concerning the effect of the press Griffith (Sheriff Andy) in on the alumni concerns, Spencer \Headmaster\ head up the two stated that there was a twofold remaining new shows. Bernardi, effect. \The alumni hear about who is Jewish, plays a other schools in the press and convincing Greek who gets then transfer this information to promoted from unloading trucks Union. Jf Harvard has bombings to the executive washroom by his they assume Union will, too. The polo-playing boss (Roger second problem comes from Bowen). \Headmaster\ gets college publications themselves. pretty good at times, but Jerry Many college' publications carry Van Dyke is no Don Knotts. considerable information about \Hogan's Heroes,\ chiefly due student dissent. Thus, the to the efforts of Werner alumni conclude that this is one Klemperer, as Col. Klink, and of the major concerns of the John Banner, as Sgt. Shultz, is students.\ !!till good for laughs. \Love In conclusio~. Spencer pointed American Style\ and \The out that the concerns of the Governor and J.J.\ garner a fair alumni about the students was share of yul<s as well, although probably fairly typical for adults the governor's mansion has been as a whole. However, he went on moved to Wednesdays at 8:30, to say that their concern, in this· opposite \Room 222\ which, case, was magnified because of along with \The Bill Cosby their special interest in Union. Show\ is a top priority favorite.

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 16, 1970 Editor's Note: Mark Coven '72 and Walter Spencer '72 addressed a special committee of the Albany legislatu11e investigating the causes of campus unrest. The following is their testimony. In this testimony I would like to address myself to three major topics: the situation at Union in the Spring, the current situation, and recommendations for the future. During the month following the Cambodian incursion Union experienced its greatest amount of unrest in many, many years. A majority of Union's 1600 students participated in a march on General Electric's Schenectady plant the morning after President Nixon's speech. One group of about 500 students sat for about an hour at the main intersection of downtown Schenectady, forcing police to reroute traffic. They left of their own will. Classes were officially canceled on the morning of Friday, May 1st and all day on Tuesday, May 5th. However, attendance was very low during the entire week fallowing.the President's speech. Students used the office of religious affairs as a headquarters and participated in a variety of anti-war activities including eanvassing in the community, organizing economic boycotts to force corporations to take stands on the war, sending a group to lobby in Washington, working in the campaign of a peace candidate, speaking in local high schools and to local civic clubs, and participating in a nationwide colledion and turning in of selective ser~ice cards. The faculty met and passed a program for the term allowing students to finish. course work early, to · drop courses, take courses on a pass-fail basis, or taking jn.completes and completing work this year. Faculty members were invited to offer courses relating to the spring situation for academic credit in place of regular course work. · In summary the spring protest activities at Union were greater in terms of number of participa:nts, depth of feeling, and amount of activity than any protest Union had witnessed in the past, However there was no blocking of access to a building, no coercive disruption of classes, and only $200 of . property damage. The level of .strike · activity dropped very quickly after the President's speech and the killings at Kent and Jackson State. By May 25th the strike was, for .all intents and purposes, dead. This fall the attitude at Union is mixed. Many students fell that the activities of the spring were ineffective and not worth . the bother. These are the people who were less committed before the strike. Many of the more active members of the strike ·have incomplete work to make up. Many students are working for liberal and peace candidates in the fall election. Some other people, myself included, who were active in the strike, are working to bring reform to Union. The cfimate on campus is to some extent uneasy. Students are incensed by Vietnam, rebellious toward the draft, concemec! about the Middle East, tear.ful that they will suffocate in pollution or be Sl)lotbered by overpopulation, discouraged by electoral politics, annoyed at the lack of ~hange in the nation's priorities, and derisive of drug laws which they consider to be antiquated. However I sense a greater presence of a live and let live attitude as students realize that the larger society is not goU.g to conform to the youth culture, but that it may be willing to tolerate it, The thrust of student concern at Union this fall is directed both inside and outside the college. Students are questioning whether or not the old way of learning is the best way of learning. A group of students at Union is working on·a plan where ten students will live with a professor for three months, separated from the rest of the college community, and engage in more independent and .less structured .study. The student .govetrunent is questioning if .a foreign language requirement is beneficial in 1970. There are eight students ori an eighteen man committee which is considering ways to improve the governance of · the college. It is my opinion that hope of meaningful .student participation in~ governance of the college and continued progress at Union rest with this committee. This is the situation as I look back on the spring and survey the current scene. Before I conclude I would like to make five reco111mendations for things that you gentlemen can do which will impr~ve the campus situation: 1, Avoid flamboyant rhetoric. As the Scranton Commission pointed out, tbe :President has 4, .Sup4!rvise the Gqard ..... The not provided moral leadership electe4 officials. of the state have for ·students. Too many a· responsibility to make sure that politicians have tried to capitalize a situation -nke the one that on the most extreme groups in occyred just before the killings .at the student community· for their Kent State never occurs on a own politic~:l gain;. rather than campus in New York Sta.t-e. acknowledge the .sincerity· ·of· Because in the situation that students and make them feel that existed at that time loss of life they are partners in America's was inevitable. The best future. Even if some students guarantee against a repeat of engage in flamboyant rhetoric,. Kent State is to make sure that public gfficials have a national guardsmen go on responsibility to refrain from it campus without ammunition in because their use of it drives their chambers. They should be students deeper into their trained to handle crowds ·and alienation. well disciplined so that they will 2, Extend the vote to 18 year· not either load ·or fire their olds. Federal legislati0n may weapons without orders todese. · have acc<:~mplished this; but if 5, Talk to students - During that legi$lation ~s declared the 1970 legislative session I had unconstitutional I ·think the the high privilege of · servl'ng a:s . legislature should pass again the an intern under Assemblyman proposed state · Constitutional George Michaels. Both getting to amendment passed in 1970. I know Mr. Michaels and realize that this amendment may observing the Assembly from the well be reject~d by the voters, if it inside were excellent learning ,appears on the b~llot; but experiences for me. I was ;students could accept this more generally impressed by th~ 'high, readily than they could the caliber of men who serve in the killing of the amendment in the 1egislatgre. 1 think it would b.e an legislature. edifYing experience for mo$t ~' Revision of th,e drug\ law - students to work in the I am not qualified to say whether legislature ot to talk. .to . a marijuana should or should not legislator on their campus. 1 be legalized. I do know that tQ think the. legislator might find classify marijuana as a narcotic is talks with .college .students unn:alistic. I call. on the state helpful as he continues. to deal legislature to follow the lead of with problems directly New Jer~y and reduce the concerning them. maximum penalty for first arrest It is my belief that the present _. fo1 possession of 25 grams ot less wave of carnpus unrest has deep of marijuana to six mo~ths in sociological roots. No prison and allow people to accept · recommendation that I make is rehabilitation and thus be freed going to end campus UI1,rest, \Of the onus of a criminal record. However, if t!1e •restablishment\ I feel that the emphasis in dealing shows continued interest and with other dru.g offenders should forebearance the problem will be switched from imprisonment ease. to rehabilitation. WALTER A. SPENCER, JR. Spencer and· Coven Address · Legislature There are many things about America that should remain unchanged. There are also many things about America that are in a desperate need of change. But the one thing that must not change is change itself, for change is the lifeblood of a society, and if change ceases so must that society. Many of us concerned with today's pressing social needs have rarely seen any appreciable change and we are afraid we never will. We take this bleak outlook because the leaders of our . country seem to condemn change. The Vice President refers to us as prophets of doom. And that same Vice President exalts this nation as a country to be proud of, for it is the best on earth. To many of us, this is like telling a sick man in a hospital bed not to complain, for others have it much worse. The sick man, while aware that others certainly do have it much worse, is primarily concerned with his sickness and must strive to cure himself. So we try to cure this nation through change. But we are told that we must wait until all the facts are in. And countless numbers of panels such as this one are set up to examine and question the changes we call for. This is all well and good for the people and their leaders must have time to understand and implement change. But when these panels are through reporting, their suggestions have invariably been ignored. Worse than that, many leaders, up to Mr. Nixon himself, have taken to condemning and undermining their own commissions before they are done reporting. For instance, let us look at some recent panels and the disposition of their results. The President's Commission on Campus Disorders reported that at Jackson State College, Mississippi Policemen needlessly slaughtered two students injuring twelve more. Evidently, firing had begun without either warning or order from police commanders. In 28 seconds 150 rounds of gunfire were sent into and around a .girls' dormitory. The I'f'dS(\n for the action was suppo:;ed sniper fire. Yet the barrage was directed into crowded windows and into a crowd. The special police sniper team did not fire at all, rather state and city policemen fired into an area. more than 200 feet wide. Although the supposed sniper fire was directed from the third floor, both of the men killed were at ground level. The state police had reported that the crowd of students had advanced on the police, yet most of the crowd was behind a chain link fence. And to this incident Governor John Bell Williams concluded that \the officers... did not instigate the problem; they did not encourage it - the responsibility must rest with the protesto~\ A Mississippi Grand Jury investigating the murders at Jaekson State found no cause for indictments. They obviously did not look too bard at the evidence, for not only did the President's panel reveal that the police had needlessly killed two men, but the commission also stated that the Grand Jury testimony contained numerous half-truths and falsifications. Half-truths and falsifications are, in everyday language, lies. The politicians of this country seem to think that investigative panels are an effective means for discerning the facts and implementing change. If the aggriev~d parties ever thought panels could bring justice they certainly do not now. Fer the · fruit of the National Report on Civil Disorders, The Walker Report, the investigations of the slaying of Fred Hampton and the Orangeburg Massacre, and now the report of the Commission on Campus Unrest, to name only a few - has certainly not been justice. Rather these panels have borne only more discontent over their inability to stop injustice. And rightly so. For repressior and injustice survive because rarely, if ever, does any large section of this country feel their effects. The members of panels such as this must stare in wonder at the rapidly multiplying number of minorities crying out against repression. Students, like Blacks, Puerto Ricans, Indians, Mexican Americans; and other minerities, are now feeling the pressure of repression. It is only when an event has great bearing on a prevailing majority that any meaningful change takes place. But you legislators are !!Ware of that and so are the people who put you in .office and keep you there. For the full blame for America's injustice must rest with all who stand in the way of meaningful change. And if the distinguished members of this panel still do not understand my bitterness - my brother's bitterness - they need only imagine a \no-knock clause\ designed for them, a Kansas law that may cause a student's suspension for heckling, a draft system that forces you to choose between jail, Canada, and a war you find both immoral and illegal, and many other repressive measures in the establishment's war on youth culture. If you and the people wonder why protestors harp on the same injustices, it is because these injustices continue to exist unchallenged, except byus. Members of the panel, I ask you to imagine yourself repressed by these and other measures in a country who's people refuse to discern between fanatics and concerned, frustrated citizens. You tell us violence is never condonable, Yet not only was this country founded in violence but it has never,. to this day, abandoned violence as a means for achieving its ends. Imagine the sheer hypocrisy of Mr. Nixon or any of his supporters condemning the use of violence. Imagine the Presid ent~s Commission oil Campus Unrest saying, \Violence by students on or off campus can never be justified by any grievance, philosophy, or political idea ... Criminal acts by students must be treated as such wherever they occur and whatever their purpose.\' If such statements a.re to have any meaning to Arn~rica's social critics, they must be applied equally to those on both sides of a critical issue; hard hats, policemen, and National Guardsmen must not remaih aloof from prosecution for criminal acts. But much more important than merely condemning violence, leaders and ·citizens alike must seek to understand violence, for it is a manifestion of societal problems. I do not condone vi()lence, gentlemen, I do, however, understand it. I plead with you for · justice, because continued and grievous injustice is what breeds violence. You do not seem to · understand this and neither does the silent majority that runs this country. Or maybe the truth is that all of you do understand it only too well and· do nothing about it. In any ca.se, just let me DOUGLAS Your Headquarters For Fashion Footwear BOSTONIAN~· BATES* WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES * WALI<·OVER * SEBAGo-MOCS MANSFII;:LD *SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-85 77 319 State Street Schen~tady, N.Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF J.D. CARD . ' say that as long as injustice remains unchanged, campus unrest will continue in the name of.change. I quote Albert CamtJs: \I should like to be. able to l(lve my country and stilHove justice.\ MARK COVEN IHE EUROPE Round-trip DC-8 JET from New York For onry $210* round trip, Icelandic Airlines flies you di- rect to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe for best .connections to everywhere. Dally jets. No groups to join. Stay one day or up to 45. Fly Icelandic-for low- est fares to IceLand, Luxem- bourg, England, Scol!and, Nor- way, Swed~n and Denmark. Special fares for students and groups remaining overseas more th:an 45 days. Majol' credit cards -or Pay Later Plan. Mail coupon; then call your· travel agent. *Add $20 onewayon Fri. and Sat. ~-----------~-------. l To: Icelandic Airlines 1 1 630 Fifth f\ve., N;Y. 1()020 ~ i (212) Pt 7-8585 1 1 Send folder CN on Lowest Jet : l Fares to Europe 0 Student 1 1 Fareso. 1 I ' I I I Name 1 I 1 1 Street 1 I 1 l City · i I I State Zip __ . - 1 1 · I : My travel agent Is l I I I · · I . ·-----------~-------} .. . h. ICELANDIC AI.~'Rl ..... IN.,.E.'S .... - .• TtJJ:r J..'J/J[f)UJJ . LOWEST-. AI.RFARES 'TO EUROPE of any scheduled airline

have that that at on a S'mte. that life be.st of that on in be ·and will their •. I had a:s . to and the was high the an most the o a 1 find deal deep No is and will \I CONCORDIENSIS; OCT. 16, 1970 PAGE 5. HaggJrd: American Poet By DANNY SHOCKKf \riTz p;oud to be an Okie from Muskogee, A piace where even squanes can have a ball. We still fly 'Old Glory' down at the courthouse; White lightnin's still the biggest thrill of all.\ * * * * '\Okl.e' is a description of a little town in Oklahama. vhe thought that wa~ trying to he described in the song was of a little town that still liked America the way it is in Oklahoma, and are happy to live the way they've been living for the past fifty or hundred or three-hundred years. The riots and the racial problems and all that stuff seem to kinda ·be all around them,: but it wailn't involving them; and· I ju,.;t .thought it\Would be awful nice if there was a lot of places like Muskogee, Oklahoma.\ * * * * By the time the interview had progressed to this point I had .lost beth my cult11re shock and paranoia about being lynched. There I was, in the Merle Haggard bus, with Haggard and some other performers, outside of Proctor's talking to the man who had become spokesman for Middle AJ:!lerica and author of the song, \Okie from Muskogee,\ a guaranteed- laughgetter in any college auditorium in the country. When I first told friends I was gping to interview Merl;e Haggard and I needed some questions, they responded with, \ls 'Okie' your ideal of Ameljca ?\ and the gleam in their~ eyes clearly stated, \That ought to put the fascist bastard against the wall.\ I invited a friend to accompnay· me, and he declared that he \wasn't going to get- a haircut to interview Merle Haggard.\ The lines for the seven o'clock show began at four:.thirty. I· had never seen so much of Middle America in one place (beads ~tnd roman sandals won't be seen). ••rve been interested in country music for about ten years. Last May I got a kiss· from Tammy Wynette because it was a birthday, and an autograph from her, also. It was very something. I was really surprised; she gave me a kiss and .I gave her a kiss right back.\ After the gentleman who related this story left me, he approached Haggard and told him, \Merle I'm ·here because I have a brace on my leg, do you know that?\ He seemed surprised when the singer admitted he didn't. Perhaps the artist can best explain why the people were there. \I think that even though they haven't seen the country or experienced possibly what I'm . singing about, they probably dreamed about it, or at least thought about it. Maybe the closest they'll ever come to doing what I'm singing about is listening to the music and they might desire to be that free.\ There are plenty of vicarious thrills that can be gotten through the life of Merle Haggard. An ex- convict, itinerant laborer, and wanderer, the man has a knowledge of the loser unclouded by roinantic bullshit. ''I wo11ld hate to have to live through it again, some of it, but being that it's behind, I can look back on it as some very necessary experience.\ He would not change any of it. 1Vrerle B:aggatd does not sing anything he does not believe in, but he is uncmnfortable amid the controvery \Okie\ and \The Fighting Side .of Me\ bas caused. Maybe l'm used to New York unfriendliness, but I could not help feeling that they were. so polite and thoughtful to show me that they were not my enemy. \I don't mean to offend· anybody, and whatever a person believes in, for him it may be right and I may be wrong, but each person got to make sotne kind of stand, and I don't mean it offensively to anyone.\ All his songs come qut of his backgro1:1nd. I asked l'liggard if he coUld write a song about a child groWing up in New York City. \No I don't believe I could; I don't have any idea what it's l~ke. I wrote a sqng called \New York City Blues,'' about a country boy who got stuck in New York Oty. I've been to a lot of cities, not partiCUlarly New York, but a lot of cities like New York; broke, hungry, and the buildings look awful big and the sidewalks look .. awful cold, and the people don't seem to care, but as far as writing a song about something l've never experienced, I don't believe I could, no.'' Haggard worked with \Kenny Rogers and The First Edition\ in Kansas City. All the performers had a deep mutual respect for each other and each other's work, but the mixed audience had trouble understanding each other. \We had a mix,ed audience, and I don't particularly Hke it, working to people who do not dig what I'm doing, and I don't think Kenny did either.\ ~-.....-~-.\\'_......,.._....,_ A great deal of Haggard's power lies in his honest proximity to the people of whom and to whom he sings. \If I wasn't a singer, where would I be? I'd probably be in~ the oilfields, or construction, a carpenter, something ·of that type.\ When I left the bus after the interview, some of the Haggard ch~ristna had been transferred to me. About fifteen people, hoping to see the performer before he got on the stage, were crowding around the bus. Their eyes f .... -~--.---\'\'\ followed my every move, after all, I had just spent twenty minutes talking to the Man. I had to be someone special, also. \Please mister, coUld you give this program to Merle?\ Buy a Merle Haggard album so that you can play \Okie from Muskogee\ for friends when everybody's stoned; don't stop there, though. Listen to the whole thing. At a time when. revolution is a fashion, and four Kent State students died so that ARTISI'S 'ortc.rP'f\tD~ oF nt£ N£1J EN~I-HfeR•~'- 8&11LDIAJ& a film calle(i \The Strawberry Statement\ could proclaim its --------------------------- relevancy, honesty and integrity is something to be respected. Agitating Maoist Speaks to Students B] ALAN COHEN Several days ago, Gary Maurer .was arrested in Schenectady. At the time he was in his neighborhood selling copies of PEOPLE'S AMERICA DAILY NEWS, a r~volutionary Maoist- oriented newspaper. It appears that Gaty was innocent of any crime, and was unduly harrassed, beaten and gassed by the police after refusing to cooperate. He was eventual,ly let out on $100 bail. · Gary is a member of the American Revolutionary Youth. As strange as it might seem, there are Communists in the United States - people who have defined the present political and economic situation as rising fascism and are actively recruting others in their drive for a socialist revolution of the masses in this country. For a time, I have been trying to come to terms with my self and the nature of reality. These people have bypassed both and have made an ultimate cause out of the huge economic consensus fantasy. When I first met Gary and Andy in a rather stormy debate outside the Rathskellar, I !lSked them about the possibility of there being a God and about other questions of m~taphysic~. The response was, \What has that -got to do with fighting fascism.'' And so it goes. Most college hippie activist freaks consider the hardhats and Spiro Agnew to be their true· spiritual antagonists. But perhaps it is the extreme left wing Communists whose beliefs are most contradictory to the leftism · of the youth culture. At a recent organizational meeting, Andy gave his interpretation of the class structure in Ame.rica. The ruling · class of monopoly capitalists control \practically everything that goes on in this country.\ The petit bourgeoisie includes everyone from executives down to small businessmen who are \oppressed culturally and economically and catch the full weight of the television, plastic culture that everybody hates so much.\ These people have historically turned to the right wing with hopes to make .it in the system. the working classes include trade unionists and industrial workers. It appears that Andy and Gary have an unyielding faith in the Marxist interpretation of history and the writings of Mao Tse Tung since many of their explanations appeared to be indirect quotes of doctrine. Furth~r, right and wrong and good and bad are based on what works i~ application: Communist Chma is used as an example of a people· liberating itself and developing a · system of socialist production. During the course of his talk, Andy spoke against pacifism, Conrad Lorenz' '•Nazi\ theory of aggression, subjective interpretations of life, education Where students are taught to think in terms of form, not content, the ecology movement which diverts people's attention from the real issues, and Paul Ehrlich. Basically, he spoke against anything \counter- revolutionary,\ that which does not attack facism. The full implications of ''counterrevoludonary\ should be understood · in terrris of the Communist definition. The revolution is not a -quick revolt but a way of life which goes on indefinitely. Not only during the revolt are individuals denied free action hut as long as the society strives . for an ungraspable . perfection. Art and music which do not push forward the revolution are not permitted. Drugs are taboo. Homosexuality is considered a deviant form of life, This revolution is not the same one of which Abbie Hoffman speaks when he says our system will be replaced by \heaven\ free everything. Maoism is a highly structured definition of lifestyle which asks you to conform or face the repercussions. During the course of the meeting I asked questions about Red China, the society they are trying to emulate, and the nature of man. \You said that one of the reasons Americans are becoming dissatisfied is that they're being beaten when they go out and demonstrate. In China, can people demonstrate?\ ••rhis is what the cultural revolution is all about. You had a handful of people coming into power in China who wanted to restore capitalism. Then there was a mass movement against them started by students in a couple of the universities.\ There is a struggle over them and people with the .. wrong view are criticized. If they persist and keep trying to change the policy, then they are removed from positions of influence. Take for example Liu Chao Chi, the biggest renegade in China. He was Presigent of the country and constantly tried to give directions to people about how they should act and what policies they should implement. Are you saying that he should have the right to remain President when he was trying to restore capitalism?\ \Was he removed by a vote of the people?\ •'There were big mass .discussions in every commune in China about his policies and the People's Consulate Conference voted to remove him.\ \Now is he a free citizen to continue his protest against the government?\ ~·No. You see, he has admitted he is wrong. He is working in a steel mill in Manchuria ... where he can learn from the workers and remodel himself. Everyone is not only a maker of the revolution but a target also.\ .. You said that certain practices were revised because you found that the Party was not caring enough about the people. Do you really care about a person besides economically? What about his nature and spirit?\ . ••You see, I think that that is a bunch of mysticism and garbage because men come into being and develop their consciousness through social relations and experiences. As for people having an innate soul just to be contemplated as is and not to be changed. The revolutionary artist wants to promote that the world is constantly changing and that people are c.pnstantly interacting with the world as it changes:· And so it goes. Certainly at the very least, an exercise to stimulate your mind. At most, an entirely different view of reality which may someday be shooting at you if you don't agree. Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. ..an:: ·=~. ~ . .,.~ ~,,'\· l,\ftr.. ):J • • 1\ .. ~1· •• • ...:' ·~···-·~··· . : .. -.~. -:.. · .. ~~ Schenectady's famous diamond shop, (for three generations) 166 Jay St. THREE UNION GR.A,.DUATES IN FAMILY FILM HAPS PRESENTS- MASCULINE/FEMININE By Jean-Luc Godard '~a rare movie achievement: a work of grace and beauty\ - Pauline Kael, New Yorker Sunday- Oct. 18 3:00,7:00,.9:00, 11:00 $1.00

' .: PAGE6 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT.l6, 1970 Roland Kirk-Halloween From ttfeast\ to ttSitter\ The Skin F~ Progress • • By M. GROSSMAN Hello again and ·the word's out from the bearded mouth that Roland Kirk is going to be here on Oct. 31. Oct. 31 was previously reserved for to be announced - I'm not going to make some joke about 'I never heard it \To be announced\! In any case, Roland Kirk happens to be my favorite jazz man - along with Mike Davis ~ so I'm quite obviously going to push him- although·he really doesn't need it. All your senses are usable and should be used (all the time, for that matter) and afterwards it's just such a good . feeling because you feel that maybe you might know something. His musical choice is varied, from playing a tribute to Coltrame (the supposedly best soprano sa:~C player, who is now dead .to \I'll Say a Little Prayer for You\\ (That's. enough of that.} What I've reaHy been trying te say is you have to see him to believe him - he puts· so much into his performance and conveys all these emotions to you- and it's really just too much, to quote a popular colloquialism. By LANCE FALDUCCIWITZ·:.. h~me. The origimtl German import was sexless to protect the · Last week, the State Theater mo~:als of the customs inspectors, had an informal seminar on the. so the American distributors progress of the American skin spliced in very minimal shots of flick by showing the recently female semi-nudity. The actresses : made film \Weekend With the who do disrobe are Babysitter,\ and the classic '\The embarrassingly plain, but grunt Love Feast.\ The management admirably._Ihere is far too much decided ·not to publicize the plot, and no titillation. The film educational aspects of the is done in black and- white, so it showing for fear that it would · was probably tnade over ten hurt business, but those quick years ago. It is unbelievable that enough to receognize the true we Were that innocent once. Yet, import of the event grabbed their anyone who ean remember lying center fielder's gloves and learned . his way into a 42nd 'St. movie If you have ever listned to any of his records, you may or may not have been impressed, hut he's really absolute)y amazing. His performances are totally self ... absorbing. Once you come in and sit down and open up your mind a bit to the sounds - to the emo,t.ions he's trying to convey to you - there's no way you can escape from his barrier-.. of sounds. The sounds just keep you in a trance where you are. It's like getting high and feeling all these emotions - all the~e vibes And there's the blind guy on stage making all these wonderft:d strange sounds ~ some mus1c teally soft and sweet and so melodious ~ very conclusive to sleep - and some music so powerful and so emotional. And there's this eerie guy in a long, white robe who leads Kirk on stage and orders directions and stares at the audience with sneering, hateful, despising looks. And Kirk is stuffing all these instruments into his mouth that he has hanging on him or hanging in the struments that are hanging on him. I really like Roland Kirk. For Livingston Taylor, Ws kind of OK if you Hsten to \Workingman's Dead'' although you would be missing something not by seeing him; for Roland Kirk it's a necessity to experience him b.ecause he is an experience which must be abosrbed in order to live fully. Smile. that progress is not all bad. house knows that we wer~. \\We·e. ke:nd With -the Let us discuss the films in · chronological order. •'The Love Babysitter\ is the tale of a man Feast\ is a German film tbat fails who leads a joyless existence and to detail the sordid sex games of 'so finds love, truth, and beauty the rich. This movie first played with a young babysitter Who to audiences of young 18 year... works to support her motorcycle. olds who left their .draft cards at .. S}J.e leads Everyman fl'om his . phony enVironment · into the . · W~>rld of motorcyqle ~ ta~es, into C . ·. ·~·· ·. ·t· ~. ~Becomingfxtin f]::U.worldofsoftdocgi,andioto 0 n ser oa J ues . c . lo provide contrast, dramatic tension, and kinkier .sex, Mr. By BURGESS BRIER Earlier this evening I was virtually besieged by a relentless trio of liberal democrats with an eye on verbally tearing my rather conservative outlook into tiny little pieces, Really - there were times when I was sure two of them would grab me while the third administered a neat crew ·~ut and tatooed \BEWARE OF FASCIST'' somewhere on my lower abdomen. ;possible even \liberal legislation woUld be enacted . to provide that you just can't communicate - and all of a sudden you hear these vibrations that are sound~ng like your· emotions. You can almost smell them. They're so overpowering and omp.iscent and omnipotent. Environmental Problems _ A Chance for You To -Act By HARRIS SAMUELS Most people are c~ncerned about the environment, but few are concerned enough to do anything about it. There are, however, two active environmental groups in this area. One group is called investigate the situation, and, if proper, file complaints with the city about suc,h violation. Tuesday, October 20, at 3:30 all interested people will meet at the Chester A. Arthur statue to finish cleaning up \the brook that bounds\ through Jackson's Gardens. PYE Club President Steve Amira stresses that the group is looking for people of different talents; people of all majors and interests are welcome. If you can heJp out in any capacity, come to one of their meetings. They meet on Mondays at 4:30 in the Social Sciences Lounge. But, at least the hour~Iong argument with my liberal (ex?) friends did give me the impetus to do some thinking with, it seems to me, some very soul- satisfying conclusions for me and my ~ver fewer feUow conservatives. Indeed, the number in our ranks is dwindling so rapidly that we are now a very defmite, well · defined minority group. But it is .this very idea which should strike pure unadulterated fear in the hearts of all you good liberals, for, almost as Pavlov's famous dog responded to the · gong, so does the lil>era:l respond to the words \Minority Group.\ And, using the infmite resources generally attributed to us, · we should most certainly be able to raise a natiollwide stink over our minority's particular problems. This should infallibly lead to various liberally sponsored committees to assure our .well- being. Formation of a second N.A.AoC,P. (National Association for the Advancement of . Conservative Politicians) definitely would be in order and . conservatives a minimum number of seats in Cpngress. (In order to protect our minority's rights, naturally.) But we could tnost certainly cast the final straw by (again utilizing those infinite resources) getting prominent biologists to declare conservatism the product of a heretofore undiscovered genetic aberration making us essentially a · different, and therefore, gradually vanishing . breed. The implications of this are staggering! Great flocks of conservatives would once again gather unmolested in the Senate chambers, mighty herds would prance down Pennsylvania Avenue, and who knQws, someday we might even attain as lofty a position in American lore as the bald eagle now commanas. They might even start r~ining the silver dollar just to star William F. Buckley, Jr. with Spiro T\ Agnew on the flip side: So, shoUlc;l there actually be another conservative at Union College, take heart brother! - the star of Homo sapiens consehus is once again on the . . I nse..,_ Upper Class' wife is a junkie. who is ·forced by her hal?it to aiq a heroin dealer and his ·crew of junkies in smuggling ·smack from Mexico to California; There are many jUinp cuts · from the healthy, happy sex of the man and his babysitter to the ·brutal degradation foisted -on the hapless wife (which is much more Jun to look at). rm sure the makers . of \Weekend With the Babysitter\ • would object to my referring to their ftlm as a skin flick. After all, aren't they contrasting two different cultures, . and showing the rottenness of society and the beauty of the young.er . generation'! Let's give them the benefit of a doubt; ''Weekend With the Babysitter\ is an exploitation film. Schenectady Environmental Action. This organization is setting up recycling stations where you can bring in pollutants like aluminum ca.ns, bottles, and papers and have the materials in them used again rather than being thrown · aside or burned, which causes pollution. 'fhese stations are now in Wallace\ and Barney's and will be set up in all Schenectady A & P stores in about two weeks. If you are interested in this group, contact Andrew Vought at 374-0415, or Pat McFarland at 393...(;396\ The other group is the Schenectady PYE (Protect Your Environment) Club, based here at Union. Their projects include cleaning up area pollution, formulating anti-pollution laws, proposing to the City Council the creation of more small parks in Schenectady and an environmental appreciation program for area elementary school children. They will also be willing to take information concerning the violation of pollution laws from citizens, Midi-Dresses Are A Political Statement, Fashion Designers Are Fascistic Pigs It's strange, but I felt ''The Love Feast\ was a lot more sordid than \Weekend With the Babysitter.\ though the · latter showed in detail what the former was almost afraid to hint at. The atmosphere of \The Love Feast\ reeked of old men abusing themselves under trenchcoats. Something about the film eXIided corruption and diseased intellects. · Per4aps it was the cheapness of the fll.m; the nudity was so fleeting you ha<f to LOOK. \Weekend With the Babysitter\ was . so blatant,. and there was so much nudity, you became jaded. Maybe future generation will never feel the strange sensation of piling 4Q students into a room in West because someone has a stag film. The Schenectady Civic Players have recently announced their performr.m~e schedule for the J970-I9n season: Oct. 19-24, \Lovers\ Dec. 7~!2, •'The Little Foxes\ Jan. 25-30, \The Spoon Ri11er Anthology\ March 15-20, \A Day in The Death of Joe Egg\ May J-8, ''Plaza Suite\ (if available) Tickets are available for the performa'rices\ The Box office number is 346-9951. For further information concerning the performances of tickets call Mary Ann Lommel at 393-2408\ By RAY KRISE, JR. I swore I'd never go out with a girl who owned a midi-skirt. Now I've gone out with two of them, one of whom actually wore the damned thing. W~ll. what's wrong with that? Are you a fashion reactionary, Krise? No, quite the reverse, actually. Then why decry the midi, if the girl wants to wear it? Because it is an unwitting political act, that's why. The unwitting political act is very big this year. For e\Tery hard- hat who realizes that by pasting an American flag on his car he will be branded as right-wing, dozens of Moms and Pops put· Old Gory on the family Impala because they think it looks nice. For every kid who smokes a joint inside the three-mile limit (unlike William Buckley) and knows he is saying, \Up yours, Dick,\ there are maybe twenty kids who get stoned just because it feels good. The political nuts on both sides of the fence (political nuts - I am one) are foistering off on their unwitting friends acts which a.re·actually political stances. How. is the midi-skirt a political positions? To. answer that· question, we must remember first that the country is in an economic recession. Next, we must re~ll that in times of much money, industry caters to youth, for they are unfettered by family responsibilities and so have much spare bread · for themselves; however, when money becomes tighter, industry will turn itself to those who will be least affected by the tightening ~ the middle- aged middle class. Now, middle- aged ladies have a tendency to be, shall we say, un-svelte,. with legs resembling either baseball bats, or stacks of pumpkins. Anyway,. there is no way in the laws of sexology that they can compete with an eighteen-year- old girl physically. The fashion industry knows this, so down come the hems. Voila! instant equality of the ages. The midi is, then, a suppression of youth. To quote the \Who \we're not gonna take it.\ Maybe I should say, · YOU'RE not gonna take it. It's about time someJ;>ody turned you on to what you've been doing by living your own life-style, because I know how hard it is for one to judge himself. . Just remember · that just as automatically as a student thinks, \fascist when he sees a hard-hat perched in a car's rear windowj so too does the Middle American think, \queer-dope-Commie when he sees long hair\ lt's interesting, really: I bitch about getting \all power to the people,\ and yet the people already have all power. The government is powerless to stop anyone from facsict to revolutionary - from living precisely the way he wants to. Dope and guns, dope and guns, there will always be dope and guns. All the gummint can do is kill us. Brother in the . hard-hat, don't you see that we have a common enemy? Don't yoU see that we all want the freedom to live? Those who do not want that are only those to whom the word \life\ means ••expendable.\ The Government. Jesus - a revolution started by women covering their rights! OASIS If you can't get away from campus t9 see the fall colors, don't forget Jackson's Gardens. Inspite of the neighborhood terrors and radio toters there are still tree and flower lined walkways. And although you must be an engineer to appreciate the functional uglyness of the two newer bridges, the downstream one still conveys its charm. The ~ntrance to this well tended, quiet respite from your neighbor's stereo is just east of the Physics Building. Peter Pause ~s3~5- Nott··Street .• 1

n-man ct the ctors, •utors >ts of resses , are grunt much film so it ten th~t Yet, lying 10vie lhe man and :auty Who ycle, his the into into :a tic Mr. ~ho ~a of ·om are the :tan ttal the ore of er\ to ter wo .ng he er :he nd an 1e re 1e te :g s. d d e y [) ~ 1 1 . .. :1 e :I 1 Violinist Szeryng Here • ' . Violin .soloist Henryk Szeryng, who will appear in concert I CON.Q_ORDIEJfSIS, OCT. 16, 1970 PAGE 7 CONCORDlENSIS . congratulates ·w R u c on its 50th anniversary and hopes that the station will continue to grow and develop, and that FM will finally become a reality .. with Yougslavia's I Solisti di ·Zagreb at Union C9llege c I H 1 A u 1 Memorial Chapel on Tuesday, October 20, ai 8:30. p.m. . ·0· .. m· .·m·_ :U ... n· ·a· . :o.·u·s· tng . t n to· n· The performance will feature concerti of Bach, Mozart 'a1id Vivaldi. .. S. Hurok, perhaps the best- After the war, he moved to known impresario in the concert Mexico and in 1946 he became a world; will bring the I Solisti di Mexican citizen. Today he Zagreb, an ensemble of 13 of travels on a diplomatic passport Yugoslavia's leading virtuosi to as that country's official cultural Union on Tuesday, October 20. ambassador. . Editor's Note: The following is ~Jil outline of the \communal Jiving\ project w~ich is in the process .of selecting the members of the group. The. proposal is presented here for the edification of those who· would like to see what they may be letting themselves in for should they apply. Anyone · interested should contact the project coordinators through student activities. Joining them-for the appearance' .. He is a musician's musician,\ ·in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. says Rubinstein, \In the U.S., the will be Polish-Mexican violin masses go to concerts for soloist Hen.ryk Szeryng. entertainment. But real music· Szeryng burst upon the concert lovers want emotion - great We believe the purpose -of a college is to provide scene just over a decade ago, moments _ which Szeryn~) an atmosphere of c.onstant ·lea:ning in ~hich the when pianist Artur, Rubinstein playing_gives them.\ student can accomp~Ish ?ne of hfe's most Imp?rtant urged him to. leave his post as a At Tuesday's concert, the tasks: th.at o~ maturing .mtellectually ~nd commg to music teacher. at the National group will present Bach's \Violin. terms With himself. This rna~ be ~cht~ved through University of Mexico. \He Concerto No. 2 in E major,\ many ~~ns and we believe It Is .a college played Bach s.onatas,\ Rubinstei1,1 Mozart's \Violin Concerto No. 5 ~ommu~Ity s duty to searc~ for and Implement recalled,\. \and reduced me to in A major,\ and Vivaldi's \The mnovative forms of edu~atH:~n. One of t~e m?st tears \ Four Seasons.\ valuable methods of learnmg Is the students active So~ of an iron and lumber Union students and faculty are participation in ~he educational process, which, magnate, Szeryng fled Poland admit~ed free, with student date when _ ~dupled wtth fre~dom ftom ~he. no~al after Hitler's invasion in 1939. tickets available for only $Leach. acadennc structure, provides a rare ms1ght mto · · education and an equally rare opportunity to learn. . . Evers Cont•n d Toward this end, we propose the following: . I ue ' during the Winter Term 1970-71 a group of ten or • • • • more students and one faculty member join together '· FroniPage 1 Evers·win be raising funds for the· to live and learn in a community. This community order- but it must be lair.\ city of Fayette which, to date, would be a distinct and separate entity, to the . Evers urged ·White Ameri911 to does not receive state or Federal extent to which this is possible, from the rest of the be aware of its .guilt and warned funds. He referred to the Medgar College. We propose further that the academic. blacks against getting m:;ld \or Evers Fund with an office at 150 substance of this community be decided upon by we'll be maq the rest of our East 52 St. in New york City; the the eleven members and be developed in a series of lives.\ All bllfcks want, he said, is· funds donated to the foundation meetings during the Fall Term. In this way, the the tight to be ··part of the are us~d to help·finance the town community will be involved in all aspects of the enviton:(Itent. Furthermore, he of Fayette. learning process. It is important that we live said, \we don't want welfare, We \We need industry and we together, in order to create an interaction between don't want the government':;; need jobs,\ he said .. \We have the members, that will make them both teachers $1600 a year, because that is just two plants now, and we need and students, and, in most cases, a blend of the two. · another . mea.ns for them to more but we want to keep them The faculty member willt for the most part, be a coritrol us. Let us go cut and small. We don't want the regular part of the community, however, he will earn $5000 or $6000 a year on industry to control the city.\ also piay an advisory role by giving direction when our . own. Just give · us a In a bri~f question and answer it is needed and by contributing his expertise to the CHANCE and a job, and we can period which followed his speech, program. It is hoped that the faculty member and be independent.\ Evers was asked if his life was the students will learn equally from each other. The Evers concluded by looking ever threatened during his term students and the faculty membert as equal partners toward the future. While in New as mayor, lndicating that it was, in the community, will interact to make decisions York State, he will be he added that \how long a man regarding the direction and content of the program. campaigning for Governor lives is not important. The We believe that the success of the community Rockefeller in his race against important thing is. what he does depends upon the extent to which the members can Arthur Goldberg. In addition, while he is here.\ ~ formulate the day~to-day life as well as the overall Su,bcommittee On Models Opens. Meeting Tuesday The Subcommittee on Models of the President's Ad Hoc Committee on Governance announces that it will hold public hearings in the Social Sciences Auditori urn {SS-0 16) on Tuesday, October 20, 1970 during the Convocation Hour (11:30-12:20), and on Thursday, October 22, 1970, 7:30-9:00 p.m. The subcommittee welcomes proposals on models for the overall governance of Union College from any interested member of the college community. Specific views on problems of representation should be addresseq to . the. Subcommittee on Representation which will announce shortly the times and place of its public hearings. It is requested that all persons who wish to present proposals limit their remarks to 15 minutes and provide the subcommittee with a written outline of their proposal. Members of the Subcommittee on Models are Greg Freelon, '72, Dean James Palmer, Walt Spencer, '72, Will Wicker, '71, and Professor Robert Sharlet (chairman). Anyone who wishes to present their views solely in writing may send them. to the chairman or any member of the subcommittee. structure and acadell).ic contents of the project. We propose the following basic framework from which the n:fembers of the community can build a successful program. First, the faculty member and the three student originators will present the program at a meeting for all students interested. At that time students interested will be asked to write a short essay detailing theit reasons for wishing to participate in this program, and any proposals they might have for it. The initial four members of the community will then select a fifth member through a series of short interviews and/ or group meetings. The rest of the selection will be carried out in a similar fashion: The rest of the selection will be carried out in a similar fashion: The rest of the selection will be carried out in a similar fashion: The sixth member will be chosen by the first five members, the seventh by the first six and so on. It is important and only natural that the program be coeducational, if women undergraduates are interested in participating. The community should be housed in a separate facility either on the campus or within a reasonable community distance. Essential services should be provided and maintenance of the living unit should be in the hands of the participants. In terns of the academic requirements the following plan might be used. The memberlll of the community will meet Fall Term and decide upon an overall concept to be concentrated on during the term. Students will then use this theme as a basis to meet their Comp. Ed. project requirement. For instance, the group might choose community life as an overall concept. Five subtopics might then be chosen for more concentrated deiscussion. Two students will choose to research each subtopic. They will consult with necessary faculty members and do any necessary work to present the topic in a manner they see fit. They will suggest readings and will lead the discussions on the subtopic. _At the end of the discussion (s) the two students who have led the discussion will write a paper that will attempt to synthesize the discussions and the readings and present some conclusions on the topic in general and how it relates specifically to the community. The obvious. advantages to this process of discussion and teaching by the members of the community is the time factor. Because we will be living together and this will be our concentrated field of study we will be able to have discussions at any time for any length of time and any manner we desire. We wil be engaged in a meaningful and. continual learning process not hindered by an overly formal structure. The Comp. Ed. Project will als.o entail the writing of a journal by each individual recording his experiences, reactions, and observations to the readings, discussions, interpersonal relationships, community itself, etc. The third requirement for the Project will be participation in the writing of a collective paper concerning its present life,-future reforms, future existence, and academic merit. It is suggested that the subtopic paper and the journal be submitted to the faculty member of the community and the collective paper be submitted to the Comp. Ed. Board for review and possible action. The third course credit requirement might be met through Independent Study. Each student will be able to fulfill his requirement by doing a regular Independent Study in the normal manner. However, students would be encouraged to orient their Independent Studies towards the community. For instance, a student might want to bring a specific field of knowledge in which he is interested to the group. This might be done by his teaching this field both formally and informally to the community. Preparation would be involved and grading might be accomplished through a combination of commuity member evaluation and the evaluation of the faculty memb~r who has agreed to supervise the project. Students will have to secure the permission of a specific faculty member to conduct this teaching project and they will be supervised throughout their presentations. Community orientation of the Independent Study might also be accomplished through individual studies of certain aspects of the community. Psychological and sociological topics might be well served by the community. This type of study would enable students interested to extract knowledg{l from the groull instead of just adding specific field information through teaching. The community would be an open society. Members will be encouraged to .eel free to invite any person of interest to the community either individually or collectively. These outside members will be active contributors and participants for the duration of their stay. Professors, friends, administrators, and others would be invited to teach, learn, or just live with the community. We believe this program will be a means forexciting, innovative learning in a foreign situation which we hope will become familiar and productive. 1 '.1 . ' ! ·'·1 .. :. ' ·;

\. PAGES CONCORD!ENSIS, OCT.l6, 1970 Sports Oldest Football Rivalry In N. Y. State Continues As Eleven Hosts Engineers By MARK SHUGOLL Walstak leads a predominately The oldest continuing football sophomore R.R.I. defensive unit. rivalry in New York State will The group turned in perhaps its see its sixty-eight renewal finest effort to date in holding tomorrow when Union College unbeaten Trinity to two plays host to neighbor Rensselaer touchdowns in a 14-0 Engineer Polytechnic Institute at loss. The defense forced two Alexander Field. The Garnet fumbles leading to the two R.P.I. come into the game with a two- scores. game losing streak that has The Union defense has been evened their season record at 2~2, ;earning the headlines week after and hope to treat the Engineers week for their eye-opening play. to their fifth consecutive loss The eleven has held opponents to without a victory. a total of 29 points in four R.P.I. claims a 1449-4 series record. The controv~rsy rages over the results of the very first meeting between tne Gamet and th~ Engineers. Union · records show a 4-0 victory in that .game while R.P.I. boasts a 7-4 score in, their favor, · a touchdown the Garrtet claim never was scored. Tomorrow afternoon's game marks Union's annual Homecoming Game with kickoff set for 1:30. · \\ R.P.I. has had its share of games. The unit has been lead by misfortune in addition to its Don Le Bart, who earned winless record. The Engineers E.C.A.C. Sophomore-of-the- ·rh 1 ,. d have lost their record breaking Week honors for his play last · ., n c a . s quarterback, ~ob Baron, with a week ii?- Rochester: Tackles Rit . . • · fractured wnst. Sophomore Gallucci and Charhe Weeks, and . . Chris Vasiloff, an end until two defensive backs Pete Keller and By GREG HAMLIN weeks ago, will handle the signal Paul Ramsey have also been calling duties tomorrow. standouts. Joining Vasiloff in the R.P.I. It is certain that this will be the backfield will be running backs sixty-.eighth meeting between the Rick Tesner and Ken Morris. arch-rivals, however the won-lost Kalle Konston is the Engineer's - tied record between the teams leading receiver, with 14 catches is not as certain. Union claims to to his credit in four games. have won 51 of the meetings, Junior· linebacker Glen losing 12 and tying four while Led by freshman Bob Nesbitt's record-breaking performance, the Garnet cross-country team recorded its second and third victories last Tuesday. The Dutchmen drubbed St. Bonaventure 18-38, but had a tougher time against Hobart, eking out a 26-31 win over their '74 BOOT BATTLES To· DEADLOCK By MARTY BERMAN the yearlings got the go-ahead goal in the final stanza from Brickly, setting the stage for the last minute heartbreaker. All efforts seemed to go for nought. A freak goal in the last thirty seconds prevented the Freshmen Soccer team from gaining its first victory of the season, at Albany on Wednesday. A lazy 40 yard kick by an Albany State halfback found the Union goalie out of position, and tied up the game at four goals apiece. Two ensuing overtime periods failed to determine a winner. The disappointing result partly diminished a sterling performance by right wing Rolf Wandell. Wandell tallied three times, including a penalty kick in the third period. The other goal was scored on a rarely-seen corner-kick by Mark Brickly. Brickly perfectly hooked in a goal from the right side, planting the ball in the lower left hand corner of the net. This goal in the' final period gave the Dutchmen the lead at 4-3 and capped a rally which had seen the Garnet come Rugby Opens Union's Rugby Club, questing for their first win in more than two years, host the ruggers from Albany Med at high noon tomorrow on Library Field. The contest, along with the varsity soccer match on Daley Field, wiii kick off the activities for the 1970 Homecoming Weekend. The Garnet are coming off a satisfying Thursday night scrimmage against the Schenectady Rugby Club. Although the Schenectadia ns triumphed 13-6 in the rain and mud on three tries and a 2-point conversion, the Garnet A's, who played the first and third quarters, outscored their adversaries 6-5 on Brad Hastings long run for a try and Dan Rapaljo's penalty kick. Union;s B's, although outscored 8-0 during the second quarter alone, came back strong in the second half to handle their older and more experienced opponents.· back twice from single goal deficits. The Dutchmen opened up the scoring in the first quarter when Wandell tallied the first of his hat-trick. Some defensive lapses followed this superb effort and State was able to grab a lead by scoring twice, one in each of the first two periods. Before the end of the half, though, Union regained· the momentum and knotted the score at two with Wandell taking a lead pass and scoring on breakaway. Stat once again took the lead in the third period. The goal was scored from a scramble out in front of the net. Battling back still another time, the Dutchmen forced a penalty kick which Wandell calmly made for his and the team's third goal. Continuing to dominate play, Homecoming Saturday · puts the Dutchnten up against R.P.I. The slide•rule wielding Engineers are undefeated, this season. The game will be played on Garis Field. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all aver the world. 406 STATE ST. Your One Stop, Service Center TIRES~ BATTERIES MECHANICAL WO.RK Lafayette St., Next to Two Guys '3'. '!;!,, exp1res Oct. 30, 1970 Booters Slide Te 1-1 Tie·; Face RPI Here At N:o.on By MICHAEL :PITT . The Varsity Soccer team slid its way to a l-1 tie against Hamilton in Clinton, New York • Wednesday. Larry Mullman played another o'utstanding game, leading the tenacious Garnet defense, while Tim Foster . also looked impressive on defense but was forced frem the game early after a collision with a Continental forward. The speedy Garnet were plagued by a small, slippery field that handcuffed the usually strong attack. Time and again Win Twice Statesmen hosts. the triangular meet was scored as three dual meets. Nesbitt, a second-place finisher in the Maine high school cross- country championships last year, was never chaUenged c;luring the race, out-running his nearest competitor by over two hundred yards, and bettering the Hobart course record by seven seconds. The front-runner in the Garnet's opening meet, Tim McCabe, copped the third spot in the race, while juniors Bryant Moeckel, Paul Forbes, and · Frosh Ed Wagner rounded out the first five for Union. Moeckel finished sixth, Forbes ninth, and Wagner tenth in the contest. · The Dutchmen will put their unbeaten record on the line this Saturday when they host arch- rival R. P, I. at the · Girling Center. The varsity race, which promises to be the Garnet's toughest test of the young campaign, will start at 12:00. the Dutchmen over-r;:tn the ball, sliding haplessly on tbe soalced turf. The· slower,· ~ore sure- footed Continentals moved the bali deliberately .up field, .playing on Union~s ineffectiveness. The G11rnet's lone ,goal came on a miscue in the COntinental. defense which saw Dusty Richards tipping it past the goalie into the upper left hand corner of the net. . Hamilton finished the scoring with approximately four minutes left in · the fitst half, on a blow from very short range that saw senior goalie. Craig Barger effectively screened. The Garnet picked up the attack in the final quarter and th.e two ·overtime periods, but it was not enough to overcome the field conditions and' a good performance by the Continental net minder. The Dutchmen face perennial power and arch-rival R.RJ. tomorrow at 12:00 noon on Daley Field. One year ago Union pulled a stunning 1-0 upset over R.P.I. The engineers haven't forgotten, however, antl Union will have to be sky high to do it again. Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of VanVranken \'S P 0 A T S W E A A Tumble Tweed, for instance. As rich, thick, and tweedy ~s if it was carded and spun by hand on foggy Scottish islands. iiut it wasn't. It's Dacron poly- ester and wool, machine washable, machine dryable. Honest. . UJ4t . ~q· uirr ~bop 826 STATE STREET, 871-3061. I ·~

\. PAGE8 CONCORDIENS/S, OCT. 16, 1970 Concordy Sports Oldest Football Rivalry In N. Y. State Continues As Eleven Hosts Engineers By MARK SHUGOLL The oldest continuing football rivalry in New York State will see its sixty-eight renewal tomorrow when Union College plays host to neighbor Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute at Alexander Field. The Garnet come into the game with a two- game losing streak that has evened their season record at 2-2, and hope to treat the Engineers to their fifth consecative loss without a victory. Walstak leads a predominately sophomore R.R.I. defensive unit. The group turned in perhaps its finest effort to date in holding unbeaten Trinity to two touchdowns in a 14-0 Engi,neer loss. The de:fense forced two fumbles leading to the two R.P.I. scores. - R.P.I. claims a 14-49-4 senes record. The controversy rages over the results of the very first meeting between the Garnet and the Engineers. Union records show a 4-0 victory in that game while R.P.I. boasts a 7-4 score in their favor, a touchdown the Garnet claim never was scored. Tomorrow afternoon's game marks Union's annual Homecoming Game with kickoff set for I :30. , Boaters Slide To 1-1 Tie; Face RPI Here At Noo~n By MICHAEL PITT The Varsity Soccer team stid its way to a 1-1 tie against Hamillton in Clinton, New York Wednesday. Larry Mullman played another outstanding game, leading the tenacious Garnet defense, while Tim Foster also looked impressive on defense but was forced from the game early after a collision with a Continental forward. The speedy Garnet were plagued by a small, slippery field that handcuffed the usuaHy strong attack. Time and again the Dutchmen over-ran the ball, sliding haplessly on the soaked turf. The slower, more sme- footed Continentals moved the ball deliberately up field, playi:ng on Union's ineffectiveness. The Garnet's lone goal came on a miscue in the Continental defense which saw Dusty Richards tipping it past the goalie into the upper left hand corner of the net. . R. P. I. has had its share of misfortune in addition to its winless record. The Engineers have lost their record breaking quarterback, Bob Baron, with a fractured wrist. Sophomore Chris Vasiloff, an end until two weeks ago, will handle the signal calling duties tomorrow. The Union defense has been earning the headlines week after week for their eye-opening play. The eleven has held opponents to a total of 29 points in four games. The unit has been lead by Don LeBart, who earned E.C.A.C. Sophomore-of-the- Week honors for his play last week in Rochester. Tackles Rit Gallucci and Charlie Weeks, and defensive backs Pete Keller and Paul Ramsey have also been standouts. Thinclads Win Twice Hamilton finished the scoring with approximately four minutes left in the first half, on a blow from very short range that saw senior goalie Craig Barger effectively screened. The Garnet picked up the attack in the final quarter and the two overtime periods, but it was not enough to overcome the field conditions and a good performance by the Continental net minder. Joining Vasiloff in the R.P.I. backfield will be running backs Rick Tesner and Ken Morris. Kalle Konston is the Engineer's leading receiver, with 14 catches to his credit in four games. Junior· linebacker Glen It is certain that this will be the sixty-eighth meeting between the arch-rivals, however the won-lost - tied record between the teams is not as certain. Union claims to have won 51 of the meetings, losing 12 and tying four while By GREG HAMLIN Led by freshman Bob Nesbitt's record-breaking performance, the Garnet cross-country team recorded its second and third victories last Tuesday. The Dutchmen drub bed St. Bonaventure 18-38, but had a tougher time against Hobart, eking out a 26-31 win over their '74 BOOT BATTLES TO DEADLOCK By MARTY BERMAN the yearlings got the go-ahead goal in the final stanza from Brickly, setting the stage for the last minute heartbreaker. All efforts seemed to go for nought. A freak goal in the last thirty seconds prevented the Freshmen Soccer team from gaining its first victory of the season, at Albany on Wednesday. A lazy 40 yard kick by an Albany State halfback found the Union goalie out of position, and tied up the game at four goals apiece. Two ensuing overtime periods failed to determine a winner. The disappointing result partly diminished a sterling performance by right wing Rolf Wandell. Wandell tallied three times, including a penalty kick in the third period. The other goal was scored on a rarely-seen corner-kick by Mark Brickly. Brickly perfectly hooked in a goal from the right side, planting the ball in the lower left hand corner of the net. ihis goal in the final period gave the Dutchmen the lead at 4-3 and capped a rally which had seen the Garnet come Rugby Opens Union's Rugby Club, questing for their first win in more than two years. host the ruggers from Albany Med at high noon tomorrow on Library Field. The contest. along with the varsity soccer match on Daley Field. will kick off the activities for the 1970 Homecomin? Weekend. The (iarnet are coming off a ..,atisf)inf! \lhursday night scrimmage againq the Schene('ta<h f{ ughy Cl u h. ,\Jthnu!!h th·· 'chenectadia m triumph,·d 11-r, m the rain and mud nn thn'l' ttL'' and a 2-point con\·cr,ion. the ( ,arnet A's. v. ho played the II:<~ <~nd third quarter'.. nut,cured their adver~am:' o-5 on Brad Hasting~ long run tor a try and Dan Rapaljo's penalty kick. Union's B's, although outscored 8-0 during the second quarter alone. came back strong in the second half to handle their older and more experienced opponents. back twice from single goal deficits. The Dutchmen opened up the scoring in the first quarter when Wandell tallied the first of his hat-trick. Some defensive lapses followed this superb effort and State was able to grab a lead by scoring twice, one in each of the first two periods. Before the end of the half, though, Union regained the momentum and knotted the score at two with Wandell taking a lead pass and scoring on breakaway. Stat once again took the lead in the third period. The goal was scored from a scramble out in front of the net. Battling back still another time, the Dutchmen forced a penalty kick which Wandell calmly made for his and the team;s third goal. Continuing to dominate play, Homecoming Saturday puts the Dutchmen up against R.P.I. The slide-rule wielding Engineers are undefeated, this season. The game will be played on Garis Field. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. Your One Stop· Service Center TIRES. BATTERIES MECHANICAL WORK Lafayette St., Next to Two Guys ~uooom lube & Oi! Change ,_-_- . -< <::.::i-.l%- -- --- ··---~~~--~=--~~. -~~ _---_. :r_) - .... ~ ·,=# '...,'?':': • IncludPs up to 5 quarts of premium oil and Pxpert lubrication. $388 This coupon expires Oct. 30, 1970 Statesmen hosts. The triangular meet was scored as three dual meets. Nesbitt, a second-place finisher in the Maine high school cross- country championships last year, was never challenged during the race, out-running his nearest competitor by over two hundred yards, and bettering the Hobart course record by seven seconds .•. The front-runner in the Garnet's opening meet, Tim McCabe, copped the third spot in the race, while juniors Bryant Moeckel, Paul Forbes, and Frosh Ed Wagner rounded out the first five for Union. Moeckel finished sixth, Forbes ninth, and Wagner tenth in the contest. The Dutchmen will put their unbeaten record on the line this Saturday when they host arch- rival R. P. I. at the Girling Center. The varsity race, which promises to be the Garnet's toughest test of the young campaign, will start at 12:00. The Dutchmen face perennial power and arch-rival R.R.I. tomorrow at 12:00 noon on Daley Field. One year ago Union pulled a stunning 1-0 upset over R.P.I. The engineers haven't forgotten, however, and Union will have to be sky high to do it again. Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranken Tumbll\' TwcC'd. for rn>t.lnc<\' As ridt. thrck, and tweed} '\ If rt wa< c.lrciPd and <pun bv hand nn logg) Scott,,h \land<. But rt wa~n't It's Dacron poly. ,.,,.,, .md \''\1. ntd< hrne \a;hable rnachrne dryable. flone;l l ~ 'l ,! ' j , r '

, (t. VOLUME 100, NUMBER 7 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 20, 1970 : PRI.C.E·T.W~NT¥. CENTS , .. - r- Alu.mnus To· Raise Funds· Philip E. Duchscherer, _ a . partner in ,the engineering consulting firm of Duchscheter & Oberst, has been named !1:eneral chairman for Union's fund drive in the Buffalo area. Duchscherer, a former president of the alumni cotmcil and currently a member of the Board of Trustees,. will direct the area drive which is part of a nationwide .campaign · to raise .$12.5 mill~on, for capita} development on campus. The Buffalo campaign will open Nov. 10, with a dinner at the Brookfield Country Club in Clarence, N.Y. and contim~e through December. Duchscheter is a 1939 graduate of Union and has long been '. ' .,. President Martin con!J!atulates Green, Horwath, John Horwath, and Mark Boylan on winning Union~s first annual Tour de Union bicycle race. The mercilessly vanquished a field of eighty men and women contestants. (Photo by Charles Long} E\f~r;~~~2~fit~ Relevant Education at Union president of the college's Alumni COuncil which repr.esents more than 10,000 graduates. In 1967, he was awarded the · Alumni Council's Gold Medal in recognition for his services to the college and in 1969; he was elected to a three-year term on the Board of Trustees. Edgar W. Nielsen, a business executive from Mountainside, N.J., has been named national chairman of the 1970-71 Union COllege annual fund. Nielsen, general manager of Brodie Systems Inc. of Brooklyn, N.Y., is a 1947 graduate of Union. Working with Gordon L. Decker, annual fund officer at the college, Nielsen will direct the campaign which this year has a goal of $260,000 from ll,OOO alumni throughout the country. Parents of Union students, friends of the college, foundations and corporations will also be targets of the fund drive. The fund campaign began officially on Oct. 16 with a kickoff dinner in Schenectady for cfass agents. By DAVID CONTI . \to go in any direction he wishes\ Faculty and alumni met Friday within the broad boundaries of afternoon in a seminar headed by the course. · R. Gordon Bingham, director of The Center n requirement, Comprehensive Education, Bingham continued, exposes the entitled \Relevant Education at student to \introductory Union Today;\ to discuss the snapshot looks\ into a field of his theories and the actual workings choice. The five areas of Comp. . of the Comprehensive Ed.ucation Ed., Options in Center I, Options program. in Center II, Options in After Mr. Bingham presented Creativity, Projects, and a broadly based look at Comp. Disputed Questions were Ed.'s aims and purposes; the outlined for the alumni. program was turned over to Or. Dalgleish described his · Professors Shinagel and Gado of Center n Option entitled the English Department and \Evolution and Man\ as a study Dalgleish of the Biology of tbe theories of evolution and Department who, in turn, the disputes concerning it. He presented the particulars of the explained that the course covered Comp. Ed.'s they are presently ten basic questions from a study teaching. of the evidence of evolution to Bingham stated that students determine if the theory is truly tend to stay close to certain areas scientific to whether or nofl man of . study and that Comp. ~d. should control \his environment creat~s for them L a broaden!ng · _ his genetics.'' expenence. . Whrle e.xposmg By taking his course, Dalgleish students to ~1fferent sett~~gs, the felt that students gained \a better prograD:l ,stl~D:ul~tes fac~lty appreciation of the whole mnovatlon wtthin t~e settm~. concept of race.'' ,In his teaching The Fres~man requrrement 1 ?, he presents writings on the <;enter I, Freedom and Order, .subject of evolution by a host of gtves a faculty member freedom scholars from the fields of Dean Fa . ·c·· ·-~-·t· s--· t .d-. ·t . philosophy, sociology, and . . . . u· . y . . u ·en s . religion. ''This is . an honest-to- . f · ' · ' god multi-discipline course,\ Mr. Meet With Executives :~.~~~. ~od~ Walter Spencer, '72 and Mark Coven, a discussion ensued in Temper,\ in which he utilizes <;:;oven, '72 in an interview with which a student charged G.E. films and novels to present the , CONCORDIENSIS last night, with being the second largest war \sense of apocalypse\ that discussed their meeting at the producer in the .country. prevades the imaginative genius General Eelectric Research & Although the war was not the of many of the great artists of Development Center last week. • .major issue; the members of both our time. The films of Bergman, Union was represented at the parties discussed industry's Fellini, and Antonioni will be meeting by Faculty members moralities and whether i~d~try used when he teaches the course Dean Lictherman and Prof. had a moral respons1b1hty, in the Spring. Gado described an Schwartz. Student represen~ Spencer said. Discussion earlier attempt at a similar course ta ti ves were S p e n c e r, centered about the problem of that failed; he .hopes he has now Coven, Bill Ouzer, Steve Wall, \To whom is a corporation corrected all errors. Bill Adams, Greg Freelon, and accourttableT' Those present at The Disputed Questions course Harold young. Also present at the meeting considered industry's taught by Prof. Shinagel, \Sex the meeting were fourteen responsibility t~ the government Literature, and Censorship,\ was executives of The Research and and to the public. the subject of his talk. The course Development program. These Other topics inclu~ed attitud~s is a study of the literature of included practicing scientists in towards students taking I?laces m pornography and its place within the fields of chemistry, physics, .American industry after college our society and includes studies metallurgy, environmental and graduation; and how . deep~y from the fields of I a w, waste control, plus two involved students felt btg psychology, sociology, religion, gentleme~ concerned especially industry should be in community and literary criticism. \You with storage of electrical power planning. would have to take a course in and control of noise. Despite the fact that the . sex and sexuality if you want The meeting, designed to meeting did not involve straight sex,\ Prof. Shinagel consider the role of the . discussion of the topic originally concluded. corporation in a technical named, the men. from G .E. were Students are sent out into the society, began with a brief pleased with the r~sults, said community to find out what kind presentation concerning The Spencer, and would hke to meet of pornography is available to Research and I)evelopment in the future with smaller groups the public; they are required to J>rogram at G.E. According to of executives and studertts. keep a journal recording their thoughts and reactions to their readings and discussions. At the end of the course the students · reevaluate their views on the subject of the ten week study. Shinagel stated that surveys of the students taking the course since its· conception three years ago indic~te that nine-out of every ten learned· about sex \on the street.'' In explaining that hard core porno-graphy is included in the study only because the students wanted more than just \classic\ literature, Shinagel confessed, \I honestly came to the subject more out of curiosity than expertise. I was curious yellow, now I'm curious blue.\ He noted that ·officials from the commu.nity, including the Schenectady .County District Attorney, representatives from the three major faiths, and others often appear before the class. The seminar was concluded by Mr. Bingham who described the more unusual projects that are often brought by students to the Comp. Ed. board for approval, inCluding a study of the recording industry and the communal living project currently under consideration. Kodak Gives Large Grant Eastman Kodak of Rochester, N.Y., has awarded an unrestricted grant of $9,000 to Union as part of the company's national education program which includes gifts totaling $3.3 million to be give,n to 215 colleges and U!liversities across the country this year. The Union grant is part of the ·company's ongoing program to provide funds to colleges whose graduates are now employed by Kodak. The award to Union is based on college graduates who joined the company within five years, of receiving their degrees and who are now in their fifth year of working for Kodak. Three Union graduates are in that category: Lawrence F. Christensen, Lawrence J. Matteson and John C. Wilson all earned bachelor of science degrees from Union. Seminar On Senate Race By REID RUSSELL Before a rather sparse audience in Social Science, Professors Joseph B. Board and P. Frederick Hartwig of the Political Science Department · conducted a seminar entitled \Goodell Ottinger or Buckley?\ this past Friday morning. Professor Board began with a brief summary of this year's\ United States Senatorial campaign in New York, citing· the uncertainties of a three man race. He went on to say that whether the voters split party- wise or idealogically could determine \the outcome of the ·election,\ in that if the votes are split primarily along Republican- Democratic lines the odds will favor Ottinger whereas if the votes · split along liberal- conservative lines the beneficiary will be Buckley. Board then made a prediction that while the .polls. now show Ottinger in front, Buckley a close second, · and Goodell a poor third, polls taken shortly before Election Day will show Buckley's support as having decreased while Goodell's stature will have risen, HARTWIG FIGURES Professor Hartwig, a statistics expert, then proceeded to give voter registration figures and ventured a guess as to how much of each party's support eaclt candidate would receive. The percentage of voters registered with each party, according to 1968 figures, and Professor Hartwig's estimate of how much support each candidate will . receive from each party's supporters are: Reg. Voters Ott. Good. Buck. Dem. 53% 42% 8% 3% Rep. 44% 22% 22% Lib. 1% 1% Cons. 2% 2% Total 100% 42% 31% 27% Thus, according to Professor Hartwig, Ottinger should win the election. The hardest factor to predict is how much support Goodell and Buckley will draw from the Democrats and Professor Hartwig readily admitted his estimate on this may have proven wrong. BOARD'S BIAS Members of the audience tried to induce Board, who had admitted his Ottinger affiliations at the beginning, into showing his bias. He finally consented and stated that he was attracted to Ottinger because of the Congressman's deep involvement in case WQrk, which Board sees as the vital part of Congress, his efforts against pollution and the war, and his support of law and order and increased social security benefits. Board went on to expound on the faults of the other candidates. He cited Buckley's inexperience in government, his Connecticut residency, and his tirades against students, which he described as \appealing to the worst in people.\ Goodell was characterized as a public relations man and a one issue candidate, although Board thinks that, on the whole, he has been a good Senator.

g y g r e e r I \( ' ' I VO~!JME 100, N_!JMBER 7 Alu:mnus To Raise Funds· Philip E. Dllchscherer, a . partner in the engineering consulting firm of Duchscherer & Oberst, has been named general chairman for Union's fund drive in the Buffalo area. Duchscherer, a former president of the alumni council and currently a member of the Board of Trustees, will direct the area drive which is part of a nationwide campaign to raise $12.5 million for capital development on campus. The Buffalo campaign will open Nov. 10, with a dinner at the Brookfield Country Club in Clarence, N.Y. and continue through December. f~ Ill Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 20, 1970 Martin congratulates Green, John Horwath, and Mark Boylan on winning Union's first annual Tour de Union bicycle race. The mercilessly vanquished a field of eighty men women contestants. (Photo by Charles Long) , PRIC:E_· TW$NTY CENTS Seminar On Senate Race By REID RUSSELL Before a rather sparse audience in Social Science, Professors Joseph B. Board and P. Frederick Hartwig of the Political Science Department conducted a seminar entitled \Goodell Ottinger or Buckley?\ this past Friday morning. Professor Board began with a brief summary of this year's' United States Senatorial campaign in New York, citing the uncertainties of a three man race. He went on to say that whether the voters split party- wise or idealogically could determine \the outcome of the Duchscherer is a 1939 graduate of Union and has long been active in alumni affairs. He has served as president of Union's alumni club of Buffalo and served a two-year term as president of the college's Alumni Council which represents more than 10,000 graduates. Relevant Education at Union ·election,\ in that if the votes are split primarily along Republican- Democratic lines the odds will favor Ottinger whereas if the votes split along li be r a\- conservative lines the beneficiary will be Buckley. Board then made a prediction that while the polls now show Ottinger in front. Buckley a close second, and Goodell a poor third, polls taken shortly before Election Day will show Buckley's support as having decreased while Goodell's stature will have risen. In 1967, he was awarded the Alumni Council's Gold Medal in recognition for his services to the college and in 1969, he was elected to a three-year term on the Board of Trustees. By DAVID CONTI Faculty and alumni met Friday afternoon in a seminar headed by R. Gordon Bingham, director of Comprehensive Education, entitled \Relevant Education at Union Today;\ to discuss the theories and the actual workings of the Comprehensive Education \to go in any direction he wishes\ within the broad boundaries of the course. The Center II requirement, Bingham continued, exposes the student to \introductory snapshot looks\ into a field of his choice. The five areas of Comp. Ed., Options in Center I, Options Edgar W. Nielsen, a business executive from Mountainside, N.J., has been named national chairman of the 1970-71 Union College annual fund. program. in Center II, Options in After Mr. Bingham presented Creativity, Projects, and a broadly based look at Comp. Disputed Questions were Ed.'s aims and purposes, the outlined for the alumni. Nielsen, general manager of Brodie Systems Inc. of Brooklyn, N.Y., is a 1947 graduate of Union. Working with Gordon L. Decker, annual fund officer at the college, Nielsen will direct the campaign which this year has a goal of $260,000 from 11,000 alumni throughout the country. Parents of Union students, friends of the college, foundations and corporations will also be targets of the fund drive. The fund campaign began officially on Oct. 16 with a kickoff dinner in Schenectady for class agents. program was turned over to Dr. Dalgleish described his Professors Shinagel and Gado of Center II Option entitled the English Department and \Evolution and Man\ as a study Dalgleish of the Biology of the theories of evolution and Department who, in turn, the disputes concerning it. He presented the particulars of the explained that the course covered Comp. Ed.'s they are presently ten basic questions from a study teaching. of the evidence of evolution to Bingham stated that ~tudents determine if the theory is truly tend to stay close to certam areas scientific to whether or not man of study and that Comp. Ed. should control \his environment create.s for them . a broaden.ing · _ his genetics.'' expenence. . Whtle e.xposmg By taking his course, Dalgleish students to d_tfferent sett~~gs, the felt that students gained \a better progran:t .. stlm.ul~tes fac~lty appreciation of the whole mnovatwn wtthm t?e settm~. concept of race.'' In his teaching The Fres?.man reqmrement I?, he presents writings on the ~nter I, Freedom and Order, subject of evolution by a host of gtves a faculty member freedom scholars from the fields of Dean F acuity s·-·tudents ~~:;~~.P?.~hls si~ci:~of~~es:-~ 0 ~ ' 7 7 god multi-discipline course,\ Mr. Meet W •lth Execut•lves Binghamcommented. on his Ce~;~:· I c;;?on, 8 ~?~~e Modern Walter Spencer, '72 and Mark Coven, a discussion ensued in Coven, '72 in an interview with which a student charged G. E. CONCORDIENSIS last night, with being the second largest war discussed their meeting at the producer in the .country. General Eelectric Research & Although the war was not the Development Center last week. -! major issue, the members of both Union was represented at the parties discussed industry's meeting by Faculty members moralities and whether industry Dean Lictherman and Prof. had a moral responsibility, Schwartz. Student represen- Spencer said. Discussion tatives were Spencer, centered about the problem of Coven, Bill Ouzer, Steve Wall, \To whom is .a corporation Bill Adams, Greg Freelon, and accountable?\ Those present at Harold Young. Also present at the meeting considered industry's the meeting were fourteen responsibility to the government executives of The Research and and to the public. Development program. These Other topics included attitudes included practicing scientists in towards students taking !?laces in the fields of chemistry, physics, American industry after college metallurgy, environmental and graduation, and how deeply waste control, plus two involved students felt big gentlemen concerned especially industry should be in community with storage of electrical power planning. and control of noise. Despite the fact that the The meeting, designed to meeting did not involve consider the role of the discussion of the topic originally corporation in a technical named, the men from G.E. were society, began with a brief pleased with the results, said presentation concerning The Spencer, and would like to meet Research and Development in the future with smaller groups Program at G.E. According to of executives and students. Temper,\ in which he utilizes films and novels to present the \sense of apocalypse\ that prevades the imaginative genius of many of the great artists of our time. The films of Bergman, Fellini, and Antonioni will be used when he teaches the course in the Spring. Gado described an earlier attempt at a similar course that failed; he hopes he has now corrected all errors. The Disputed Questions course taught by Prof. Shinagel. \Sex Literature, and Censorship,\ was the subject of his talk. The course is a study of the literature of pornography and its place within our society and includes studies from the fields of law, psychology, sociology, religion, and literary criticism. \You would have to take a course in sex and sexuality if you want straight sex,\ Prof. Shinagel concluded. Students are sent out into the community to find out what kind of pornography is available to the public: they arc required to keep a journal recording their thoughts and reactions to their readings and discussions. At the end of the course the students reevaluate their views on the subject of the ten week study. Shinagel stated that surveys of the students taking the course since its conception three years ago indicate that nine-out of every ten learned about sex \on the street.\ In explaining that hard core pornography is included in the study only because the students wanted more than just \classic\ literature, Shinagel confessed, \I honestly came to the subject more out of curiosity than expertise. I was curious yellow, now I'm curious blue.\ He noted that officials from the community, including the Schenectady County District Attorney, representatives from the three major faiths, and others often appear before the class. The seminar was concluded by Mr. Bingham who described the more unusual projects that are often brought by students to the Comp. Ed. board for approval, including a study of the recording industry and the communal living project currently under consideration. Kodak Gives Large Grant Eastman Kodak of Rochester, N.Y., has awarded an unrestricted grant of $9,000 to Union as part of the company's national education program which includes gifts totaling $3.3 million to be given to 215 colleges and universities across the country this year. The Union grant is part of the company's ongoing program to provide funds to colleges whose graduates are now employed hy Kodak. The award to Union is hascd on college graduates who joined the company within five years of receiving their degrees and who are now in their fifth year of working for Kodak. Three Union graduates are in that category: Lawrence f. Christensen. Lawrence .l. Matteson and .John C. Wilson all earned hachelor of science degrees from Union. HARTWIG FIGURES Professor Hartwig, a statistics expert, then proceeded to give voter registration figures and ventured a guess as to how much of each party's support each candidate would receive. The percentage of voters registered with each party, according to 1968 figures, and Professor Hartwig's estimate of how much support each candidate will . receive from each party's supporters are: Reg. Voters Ott. Good. Buck. Dem. 53% 42% 8% 3% Rep. 44% 22% 22% Lib. 1% 1% Cons. 2% 2% Total 100% 42% 31% 27% Thus, according to Professor Hartwig, Ottinger should win the election. The hardest factor to predict is how much support Goodell and Buckley will draw from the Democrats and Professor Hartwig readily admitted his estimate on this may have proven wrong. BOARD'S BIAS Members of the audience tried to induce Board, who had admitted his Ottinger affiliations at the beginning, into showing his bias. He finally consented and stated that he was attracted to Ottinger because of the Congressman's deep involvement in case work. which Board sees as the vital part of Congress, his efforts against pollution and the war, and his support of law and order and increased social security benefits. Board \~ent on to expound on the faults t)f the other candidates. He cited Buckley's inexperience in government. his Connecticut residency. and his tirades against students. which he dcscri hed as \appealing to the worst tn people.\ Goodell was charactcrited as a ruhlic relations man and a one issue candidate. although Board thinks that. on the \\hole. he has hccn a good Senator.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENS/S, OCT. 20, 1970 Blood and Politics In the era of student revolt, when it is fashionable to sneer at organized charities and community activities, many of us allow our cynicism to cloud our judgement. .Next week, the Red Cross is conducting a blood qrive on our campus. Here is an act unadulterated by ego, a student will give his blood to fill a very r:eal need. Now especially the tri-city area needs our help. Recently, two young hemophiliacs and an RH birth have drained the area's supply to a dangerously low level. The donation of blood is not a totaJ.ly altruistic act. The donor and his family receive free blood, even if the need arises out of state. While on the subject of cynical aloofness,. let us mention the problem of off-campus students and their representation in the Student Senate. As of now, these students, constituting 20 per cent of the student body, have only five students interested enough to represent one fifth of the student body. There are stiH five open places, a 10 per cent voting block for those with visions of power. All that is needed is interest enough to submit a petitions to Walter Spencer at the Student Activities Office. * * * * Worthy Cars? In spite of a few vicious and inept attacks on our editorial position supporting the banning of cars from campus, a broad base of supporting discussion is spreading through the student body. In fact, cars an:d the plight of the Arts Department are the only editorialized issues which have struck a responsive note in· the student body. This past weekend supplied examples_ of.bo~h~ p_oints of view .. Friday night after the concert~ cats with. one or two people pl'owed through the crowds --trying to cross ~he bridge back to the central campus. Who has the right of way: a couple of people in their cars, or the twenty odd people who could walk in the same space? This is of course a rather extreme case, but who has not had to step aside and wait for a car to careen past splashing you with mud after a rainstorm or leaving you to breathe a cloud of dust and exhaust fumes in fair weather? Why not at least install speed bumps, with small openings for bicycles, if drivers continue their blatant disregard for the 15mph limit? In contrast, Sunday the roadways were closed for the Tour de Union and people were able to congegrate, circulate freely, and enjoy the inner campus. It was a very pleasant afternoon. To be harassed by the noise and stench or' traffic one need only take a short walk in any direction off campus, why must we have it here? MmM&IDi f4tor William Ow:er · . News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff ••Illes Manaaer Lloyd Dims Alit. Newn Editor Peter -Dickerman ·Nifloaat Adv. Mp. Neil Green Editor-Ja.CIIIef Peter J. Wein~old Fealura Editor Daniel Sehochet Alotopaphy Editor Jody Saslow Layout Editor Doug Wong Alit. 9UII~ ~~en DougTosh ~ Dou_g Bilicfcr t:llecutke~ ·H~~m_ William J. Holleran Contrtbadii& Editor Richard L. Kramer Aat~ Sport~ Editor Mark Shu,OII Ald. l't!otopaphy f,dlton • Charles Long Dave Con~ STAFF: Nina Wolff, Harris Samuels, Abby Schutzer, Judy Steinbach, Michael Goler. Les Goldman. Joseph Achenbaum, David Conti, Greg Hamlin, Bruce Garber, Mike Gottlieb, M. Grossman, Michael Hollander. George Kaplan. Robert A. Levine, Mike Meserole. Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Michael Rosenburg CANDIDATE REPORtERS: Burgess Brier, Anne Gemmell, Brenda Kaplan, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mit~~ell, Jay Hobart, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Harvey C1vms Pul?lished Tuesdays and Fridays during the school year by the student bod,y of Union College, Schenectady. N.Y .. National Advertising Rcprc~cntatiw. Natton~l Educational Advertising Service. Inc .. College Publishers Representative. 360 l<:xington Ave .• N.Y.C. Editorial office. Old Gym. Union College. Pubhcnuon Office, The World Publications. 771 State Street.. Schenectady, N.Y. 12307. 346· 2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office ns Second C'lass Mail Matter. Subscription 20cents a copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United Stutes. _.,_:;.;;;.= ' Minstrel Recalls1Ch ildhood/Days, Local Group Eclipses Or.iginals By ALAN COHEN With expert color by Cliff Safane '70, former features and music editor. About forty-five minutes before he went on stage, Livingston Taylor found out he was the only act. \I like second acts.\ Perhaps it made his own seem more anticipated. He was eating hamburgers and drinking beer and l asked him what he thought of the soccer team~s locker room - his dressing room. \!his place is like Mecca. I've been in sorne places you just wouldn't believe. But I'm going to get ·ulcers. All I ·eat is hot dogs, hamburgers and coffee.\ While he Was eating, he didn't want to talk much. I offered to play some of my·· own songs for him, but seeing his reaction, l quickly said T was 'kidding (but 1 wasn't kidding). \You kvow, people are always· coming up to . me with songs. Some of them are . so bad, I don't know how p:eopie have the nerve to show them to anyone.\ Liv's concert .circuit takes. him on- the road for four days, then for three days he goes home to Watertown, Massachusetts. The fans have located his house. \They often leave me presents and little notes under my windshield.\ But they don't recognize him walking clown the street. He talks about his family frequently in his songs: pa (who ••used. to put me on his knee and sing Okie songs\) brothers James and Alec and sister Kate, all of whom will soon be releasing albums (except for Pa). Liv probably won't record for another year and one half so as not to interfere with his relatives' success. Right about now brother James is off in Vancouver doing a benefit concert that \Joni Mitchell roped him int~.\ I told Liv I'd let her rope me into anything. Liv said that she's a really nice girl and he's worked with her a few times. This set me back. I don't usually bow to any so~ealled celebrity, but he actually knows Joni Mitchell. Doing concerts four nights in a row, he was eager to leave as soon as possible and only wanted to gtve a seventy minute performance. \Are you going to be in Syracuse soon? asked Cliff who is attending the Syracuse University schooi of music. Liv FERRO PHARMACY 515 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y FR 7-0SJO FOUNTAIN SEil\/ICF One block from Brownell Gate r.eplied, ••syracuse? Aren't we there now?\ We told him- that this is Schenectady and he asked us if we were sure. Who can ever. be sure about a thing like Schenectady. liv stayed the night in Troy. Pity the poor wandering minstrel! With Walter Roberts on bass, the concert went fairly smoothly except for a few dogs getting in on the act. Most of the songs were of his own composition and can be heard on his album. He spoke about fantasizing ow,ning the cab of a Mack truck leading into 1 'Six Days· on the Road,\ a truck driving tune with a Credence Clearwater beat. \Good Friends\ is pretty and \Sit on IJown'' is, as Liv described it, ''a bouncy little number.\ ''Carolina bay,~' his last number before his encores, happjly. recalls childhood days. (He · finished it after shcty minutes so that his encores would total seventy.) Besides his own son~, he did · slow versions of Geo-rge HarFison's \If I Needed Someone,'' and ten.non- McCartney's ~·r..et it Be.\ His home..,grown spirit came through in a soft-$ung rendition of ••oixie,\ \a song that has been misunderstood for a long time.\ It was good to hear \Sqmewhere Over the Rainbow\ one of the all-time pretty songs, mjxed in with the modem music. the audience came to hear music and seemed to enjoy what they were offered. Myself, I became a bit bored somewhere towards the middle. Liv Taylor is (in the immortal words of Alan Gnutti), \good but not great.\ He doesn't give off the vibrance of a John Sebastian and his music does not have the depth of brother James. Perhaps for now, Liv Taylor . .makes a fine second act. exiting two hours of well-chosen, well-known songs as well as original numbers. Perha:ps the songs of other groups. were so well-ch,osen tha.t they overshadowed the group~s own compositions. · Among the best ,received songs were a medley of \Down by the River\ by Neil Young and \Wooden Ships\ by David Crosby and Steve Stills, the old Buffiii'O Springfield Richie Furay song;''Do I Have to Come Right Out and Say It?\ and Orpheus' \1 Gin't Find the Time to Tell You.,,. The arrangements were very close to the originals' artd- their voices were often better than the original artists'. The group, which has a third player, is just beginning. If you have the chance' to hear them play, it will be well worth your time. · .. lETTER To the Editor: The time for bl~tant hypocrisy regarding cooking . in the dor.mitoties, Fox, and Davidson especially, has come to an end. In the student handbook, it says that cooking e.qt.Jipment is expressly forbidden. But walk through any hallway at Fox, and you will see the majority of the residents cooking. r might add that this includes R.A.'s. Why must this- go on? Some of us are tired of finding bathroom sinks full of dirty dishes, or worse yet, a sinkful of cooking scraps, and garbage. Why not legalize cooking, and put in the necessary supplies? Why not allow access to the ·maid's sink for wahing dishes? Why not provide containers for garbage, so our halls will not smell like the city dump? If this cannot be done, I propose an immediate crackdown on cooking After the Taylor concert, the coffeehouse presented a free concert in the Nott Memorial featuring Torn Church and Chuck McDermott who gave an There will be a meeting of the entire staff of CONCORDIENSIS Thursday at 8 ·p.m. in the editorial offices, room 23, Geology building. · ALL staff members are requested to atten.d 11nd anyone who is interested in joining the staff is. invited. equipment, beginning With resident advisors. There is no reason why we should have to put up with hallways that smell like the city dump, and bathrooms where you cannot find a sink clean enough to wash your hands in. When will our deans stop the ostrich act, and start noticing some of the shortcomings? name withheld by request FILM HAPS PRESENTS A Series of Shorts The Andalusian Dog (Salvador Dali & Luis Bunuel) The Life and Death of a Hollywood Extra (two surrealistic trips) The Great Train Robbery- (the first film ever made!) The Bed - .. (use your imagination!!) Wed. Oct. 21 7:00,9:00, 11:00- $1.00 ~MAMA BIAN:CHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI~ a11d SAT. )

as the so they own songs by the iind old Furay \I You.'' very their the just the idson In says is walk , and f the add of or not the not sink not the I iate no to and our and the ) I) ·~ If ~~ T OCT. iO, 1970 .PAGE 3 The T ypicaiStruggler. Trumped Up Theatr By RAY K:RISE, J:R \Well how long have you guys been on the road?\ \About .a month and•a-half,\ said Mike. \We'll be travelling fer another C91.iple Qf we~ks, thert we'll go home and rest for a few days, .then we'H take off again.\ \How did ya mana·ge to get thisjob with them?'' Mike smiled. \They were workhi' down in Florida for a c0~ple of weeks, and I started makin' friends with 'em. Then I lost my job· .and was talkin' with 'em about it and they said, 'Groovy! Why c,lon't you set up equ,ipment for us?' So here I am. They'r~ really great guys.\ The equipment Mike had plugged together stood waiting on the Chapel stage. Organ, conga drums, regular drums with a blUe and · black Yin/Yang symbol . · and \Blues Image\ painted on the bass, bass guitar and lead guitar: except for the congas 1 it was· the same stuff as any number of othet struggling rock groups use. The same .stuff. Stru,ggle: the life of a musician is · paid by people~ not money. · Looking at the congas, I askecl Mike- what influences there w.ere on Blues Image's music;. \0 it's basically a Latin rhythm type ofthing,\'he said. \You mean like Santana?\ \Yeah.\ \But Blues Image has been out a:bout a year longer than Santana. Why aren't :they as well known?\ ·. \Better agent.\ Better agen.t, better breaks. No musician is ever inferior to another. Those that make it do so on hype and jive. Those that don~t are nice guys. So it goes, said Billy Pilgrim. Blues lmage came on about then and I really wanted to like them, I really did. At . first I thought they 'laid down a good wall of sound - in other words, they were able to play together so that they sounded like one irtstrument. Unfortunately, that was about all they c;:ould do. The cat on the congas preferred farting around with little tricks ~ like the old elbow on the drumhead trick - rather than actually playing something; h~s I EXPERT Jewelry and. WATCH REPAIR FREE ESTIMATES Our Work. Is Fully Gudrctnteed DOWNTOWN 163 Jay St., Sch'dy 372-0540 OPEN TUES. & THURS. ''tiL 9 P .. M. sense of rhythm was elementary. · The bass player was sufficient;. but totally uninspired. The lea~ guitarist was like a junior-grade Alvin Lee - he was moderately fast, but had all the head (imagination, ability to improvise) of a tree.. (rd like to note in passing, while discussing the lead guitarist, that it would .. be nice if someone on the Social Committee pointed out to groups playing in the Chapel that - atthough they may not look it - lJ Col students have human ears which ;;an suffer front pain on occasion.) The organist seemed pretty competant, but never played anything except bac.k,.up. The singer played a good harmonica, but was vocally ®intelligable on everything but \Ride Captain, Ride.\ Th.e drummer was the best musician Red Cross : Out for Blood ~f the lot, produeing one of the · The Co-Chairmen of the Skidmore Red Cross least,.painful drun:i solos I've Association were at Union last week and challenged heard. Union men and women to produce more bleeding you to disprove it. In a way we'll be dissapointed if you don't. The band virtually assured . , . . itself of an encore by playing for hearts and arms at .Umon~ blood dnve to ~e held less than an bout before walking on the 27th and 28th of th1s month than Sk1dmore off the stage. The audience,, d9es at their blood drive scheduled for the first realizing it was being robbed, i week in November. \The blood bank is in the red, or rather out of red. They need more· blood than a vampire just back from a six month vacation. \Let's have some action, capillary action. roared and stomped until the' The challenge read as follows: guys came back. It was a poor' \The Red Cross is needling us again; but we hope \The point is to get more pints in the upcoming blood drive at Union October 27th and October 28th than we do at our next drive at Skidmore. piece of trumped-up theatrics. their efforts will be vain our veins. . . . . ' However, the encores . were \Skidmore has a contest for you and we're out \Let's see if you can stick with it, Union. better than. the first part of the for blood. We hardy females think we've got more performance. The group seemed . 11 · I t .h· . . b h f to us than you Umon men and we're cha engmg ooser; ey were a unc o · Rich Gross, who spent the summer as a Red Cross volunteer in Latin America anq Bob Michaelson accepted the challenge for Union. friends playing together and enjoying themselves. They let kids dance on the stage (why is it that those who feel most obliged to flaunt their dancing ability lack even a rudimentary knowledge o( where the best it, much less what to do with it?). One kid got to play their cowbells. You don't get to do things like that with groups like The Who. The Blues Image is one of a group of small-time recording rock bands who will probably never make it. They tour the campuses and the festivals, filling· out the bill. Musicians are tenacious people, not given to, admitting defeat; their music is their life, and all they ask is the opportunity to make it. Unfortunately, in an age of instant communication, mediocre isn't good enough anymore. (Blues Image's newest album, \Red White, and Blues Image,\ will be released this December.) IMPORTANT I lost my glasses, on campus. They ·are wire rimmed glasses in a brown bard leather · case. If found, please return them to Michael Hollonder c/o Student Activities. Reward offered. VAN Operation Home Town Talent, a unique plan for helping Buffalo · area gra«Juating college · students to secure jobs with companies in their home town, will be . conducted by the Buffalo Area Chaniber of Commerce on December 29 and 30, 1970. Under the planned program, students will be able to participate in individual 25 minute screening interviews with personnel representatives of companies of their choice. These mterviews will take place at the Hotel Statler Hilton 1n downtown Buffalo during the 1970 Christmas vacation. No cost to participating students. All you do is pick up a registration card in the Placement Office in Wells House, fill it out and mai1 it. Program is restricted to 1971 college graduates who call someplace in Buffalo's eight-county trading area their permanent home. * * * * Tht e will be a meeting of outing club members interested in attending an overnight in the High Peak area set with Green Mountain for October 23-24. Trip planning will be held Mou.day.October 19 at 4:30 p .. m. 'in Fox Lounge. If you plan to go, you must attend this meeting! - * * * * Seniors are reminded that Wednesday and Thursday are the last days to have their pictures taken for the 1971 Union Book. Sign up immediately in the Student Activities Office. * * * * Dr. William C. Lins of Rutgers University Graduate School of Busmess Administration will be interviewing seniors in the Placement Office on Friday, November 13, 1970 from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Any senior interested in an interview should sign' up in the placement Office before that date. * * * * The Idol is now accepting short stories, essays, poetry, art, and photographs. All material should be submitted at the Beware the Body Shirt Snatcher! You're fair game when you wear a Van Heusen Body Shirt. Don't lose your shirt to a light-fingered lovely! 'Cause the perfect fitting body shirt from Van Heusen is meant for YOU, man! It's the trimmer look for the '70s, sparked by bolder stripes and solids, new long point collar and 2-button cuffs. PRIZES! Two big ones! Two round-trip flights via SAS SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES to Copenhagen and Majorca for a swing· ing, expense·paid ClUB 33 vacation! Plus abo~ of Van Heusen Body Shirts for each of 25 runner· up entries. Easy to enter: just create· your own slogans for our Body Shirt ad. Send entries to College Contest, VAN HEUSEN, 417 Fifth Avenue, New York, New VorklOOIG. Contest void where prohibited bylaw. 'HEUSEN®417 .Body Shirt Student Activities Office. Also, anyone interested in participating in the John Updike interview should contact Jim Lieb at 377- 9714. * * * * The student branch of I.E.E.E. at Union College will have it's first meeting this Wednesday, October 21, 7:00p.m. at E.E.-22. Professors Driscoll, Gajjar, Galantowicz, Williams and Zavisca will talk about . their research work and graduate studies. Soda and coffee will be offered. Everyone is welcome. * * * * The Social Committee will hold a meeting on Thursday at 7 O'clock in S.S. 016. All students . who signed up to work on the committee are asked to attend, as are any other interested freshmen and upperclassmen. * * * * Movement for a New Congress is sponsoring a coffee meeting with Congressmen Dan Button on Thursday, Oct. 22 at 4:30 in Hale ' House Lounge. All are invited t~ meet and question the Congresshlen. Also, Allard Lowenstetn is in desperate need of peopl~ on Long Island for the next two weekends. TranSportation will be provided as well as residence. If interested please contact Mark Coven in the Student Activities Office or at 346-5457. * * * * All student~ interested in j6ining the French Club contact l*ofessor LeClerc in his office. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our fine Homt Cooked Italian Food in Ou1 Cbmfortable Dinino Room Opp. The Brownell Gate an NoH Strefl't Ope.n Daily tO to 1 A.M., Sundays S P.M. 'to ' A.M.

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENS/S, OCT. 20, 1970 Concordy Sports Defense Helps Stalled Offense Top RPI 1 14-0 By MARK SHUGOLL total offense, and got to quarterback Baron consistently, while gaining its first shutout of the season. The defense has now yielded but 16 points in its last 18 quartets. R.P.l.'s two deepest The Union offense sputtered its way through another sixty minutes of football, but managed to defeat traditional rival R.P.I. anyway on Saturday, 14-0~ The Garnet attack posted only 92 yards in total. offense· of which over half came on- one play, a 50 yard run from scrimmage by John Swanko. In entertaining _the Engineers before a standing room only Homecoming crowd, Union was up against a team with an 0-4 season, slate, a ten game losing streak in the series, and a quarterback playing with a fractured wrist on his non- throwing hand. Really the only surprise all afternoon was the anouncement of Bob Baron as the R.P.I. quarterback. Earlier in the week, it was announced that the record- breaking junior signal caller would miss the ball game with his injury. Nearly everything else went according to plan. Union continued its lackadaisic a I offensive display but was saved by another premier effort by the defense. The latter unit forced seven R.P.l. fumbles, limited the Engineers to under 200 yards the Dutchmen mounted their one drive of the afternoon the first time they .had the balL On the first play from scrimmage Swanko took an option pitchout from starting quarterback Mike Hogan and galloped 50 yards to the R.P.l. two yard line. Two plays later Curtis Rowe smashed over for the score and Bob Mitchell's conversion made .the score 7-0. The touchdown bmke a nine quarter touchdown drought for the Garnet. After the score the offensive unit slipped back into oblivion. Quarterbacks Hogan and Dave Rearic passed for a total oi negative II yards, threw five interceptions, and steered the unit to only seven first downs, of which three came via R.P.l penalties. The Garnet ran only 55 offensive plays, as opposed to 80 for R.P.I. After its success on the first play, Union continuall)' went back to its option sweep, but the Engineers continually gobbled the play up. Med-men Upend RJJggers The Rugby Club, seeking their first win in nearly three years, co 11 ided wit It a burly, experienced Albany Med squad on Saturday and came away on the short end of a 19-0 score. lt was a disappointing loss for the Garnet, who had looked impressive in practice and had played well in a 13-6 scrimmage loss to the Schenectady Rugby Club. Med wasted no time in getting on the scoreboard, scoring a three:-point try after the contest was only a few minutes old. Albany did not stop there, rolling to a commanding 13-0 halftime bulge. Probably the only bright spot for Union was to be found in the B conte~t, in which M ed · struggled to a 6-3 victory. After Albany had scored 'twice early in the game, Union's second- stringers rallied for three points and played Med head to head iti the later stages of the match. The continuing search for a Union rugby win continues this wee'kend, as the ruggers journey to Wesleyan to face the Cardinals on Saturday. By GEORGE BAIN The Union soccer team ran up against a superior and revenge- minded R.P.I. eleven Saturday, and emerged at the short end of a 4-1 score. R.P.I. dominated the offensive game, taking sixteen shots on net, compared to a meager five for the Dutchmen. The extremely cold weather hampered the offenses and the penetrations into Union territory in the first half were both halted by fumbles. In the second quarter, the visitors. drove tc:~ the Union 26 before Paul Ramsey halted the drive by recovering a Baron fumble. Later in the. period R.P.I. was stopped on the . two yard line by another fumble. r . .~ - The Garnefs final score was credited to the defense. Engineer Baron miscalculated a pass and · sophomore Tom Anacker was there to intercept. The defensive back dashed all of 33 yards to tally the Dutchmen's second touchdown of the day. The win slipped the Garnet's record ab!)ye the .59() mark at 3: ... . I ' \-' . • LONG SKIRT - Sophomore running-back Swanko hauls in Mike Hogan's pitchout at his own 43 on the first Gamet offensive play of Saturday's Union-RPI grid contest. Swanko skirted his right end and rambled untouched to the Engineer three yard line, leading the way to Union's first score in a 14-0 Garnet Homecoming win. It was the eleventh straight win over the Engineers for Union. (Photo by Les Kernan) Engineers led by only a 1-0 count at the half. R.P.I. tallied twice in the third period after soph Bob Bernhardt scored the Garnet's lone goal. Casey Trappenburg 2, and was the eleventh'\ straight time that they ·embarrassed the Engineers. Union now leads the oldest foot\Qall rivalry in New York Sta.te 52 to 12 with four games ending in. ties, and wiU ·retain the \Dutchmen~s Shoes\ Trophy, presented annually to the winner, for at least another year. Harriers Lose highlighted the Engineers' impressive display with two goals and an assist. Lucky Kamanga and Scott Winiamson scored single goals to aid Trappenburg's Frosh Soccer Upsets Engineers The Engineers put on a dominating offensive show in the second half, but Union never could get much of a ihreat going in R.P.I. territory. The men from 'Troy obviously had last year's thrilling 1-0 Garnet upset on their mind, and were out for revenge in the biggest game of the season. By MARTY BERMAN AI Levy slammed home a goal in the last second of play to give the Freshman Soccer team a dramatic win over R.P.I. Saturday. The 1-0 victory was doubly sweet, as it ended a four- year Garnet losing streak of homecoming games to R.P.I. freshmen~ The Dutchmen were fortunate to get away with the win the way. they did. The Engineers completely dominated play after the first period as Union was never able to really get untracked. Only the sterling play of the frosh defense and a little luck kept R.P.I. at bay. After the dust had settled, shots stood at 22-II in favor of the Engineers and corner kicks went 8-5 the same way. After an even first period, the wind, the cold, and RPI caught up with the young Dutchmen. The Union defense was constantly under pressure but John Perlstein, Dav.e Van Atnam, and Kevin Donnelly managed to stave off the rallies. For extended periods of time during the third and fourth quarters, Union was unable to push the ball past midfield. Steve Arnold and Dave Kawecki also turned in brilliant performances during these tense moments. Headballs by Chuck Booth and Rob Wilder were the only scoring threats for Union before Levy came through. These outbursts managed to take, some pressure offthe defense. With a few minutes left in the game, Levy came off the bench and put some life into the offense, but it looked like too little too late. With ten seconds left on the clock the Garnet forced a corner kick. Time was of the essence and tri-captain Booth hurriedly kicked short. It was at this time that RPI \choked.\ The ball was headed straight up into the air by an Engineer defenseman. No fewer than six other Engineers stood by froZen in their tracks and watched the ball land at their feet and hound in front of the goal. Enter our hero. Levy flew into the ensuing scramble, alertly locating the loose hall and pounding it past the stunned goalie. The ball hit the nets as the horn ended the game. Tomorrow the yearlings look for their second win as they meet Williston Academy on Daley Field. Every fish that swims silent every bird that flies freely Every doe that steps softly every crisp leaf that falls All the flowers that grow on this colorful tapestry Somehow they know that if man is allowed to destroy all we need He will soon have to pay with his life for his greed © FROM A NEW ALBUM ON MEDIARTS RECORDS © 1970 M~yday Music, Inc., Yahweh TUnes, Inc. } [ T cha1 imp hun dra1 the stud A situ: Up< Hal sect desi dep sou wor als< dep alk in· whe will 1 in dra: Wei stu dep en I~ inci sec< the beCi one 1 De} des• to coil for cha can pos inc1 recc can Cu cha stin dail tha· km int are 1 con ere: thrt mu ens dra vall exp OPI do. als< ) usu \B~ stu. for res• tha the auc irre PO< ~e- wit de I aln att: the \we the thil bu1 \ .. w or fac tha

to VOLUME 100, NUMBER 8 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK ~OCTOBER 23, 1970 :PRICETW~NTr CENTS Arts On Campus Blood, Violence, Dirt, Top~cs Discussed,ConsideredOf Second Senate Meet1ng \'* By GARY ;FRIEDMAN The Department of the Arts, . described by President Martin as changing the culture of the college community, and equally impressively described by the editor of <=;oncordy as a . \source of humanizing balance for the campus\ cons1sts of the mus1c, art, and drama department. While the adrlltnistration is rebuked. for. neglect of the Department of the Arts, in actuality it was not untrl th1s year the student course demand became too; great for the facilities at hand. A temporary remedy for the·\' science and engineering school is situation is, however, imminent. · true even today, with \little being Upon the evacuation of Carnegie dop.e ·to improve the image of a Hall by the sciences, a large changing Union outside,\ said section of the builqing will be Professor Hugh Allen Wilson. designated for use. by the music lbe public relations department department. . Plans call for has beeri negligent in promoting soundproof studios and the image of improved Fine Arts workrooms, with lecture space and Liberal Arts at Union also increasing. The Art College. Freshman art majors department will find a temporary come to Union because \it is the alleviation of its space problem nicest place I visited;' rather than in the old Schenectady library, because of a good arts where studios and work areas reputation, according to a will be set up, prospective art major. The most needy of all sections Most students that take in the department, however, is courses in the arts are there for a drama. With only Mr. Henry M. diversity of study, either through Weil braving the deluge of drama Comp. Ed., or through students this year, the individual inclination. I.:ast year department is in serious need of about one filth of the student enlargement. Maintaining that body took some courses in the increased work loa~s ~re a arts. Prof. Curtis, speaking for secondary reason, Wed satd that the department, said .. we the department was understaffed thoroughly welcome the width of because ,of t?e pres.enc~. of only contact _it gi.ves lis wlth the one mans pomt of VIew. students;\ and the general The ·pu-rpose of the exposure of the arts to student Depa_!lment of .. the Arts. ~s non-majors is beneficial and descnbed by President Martm IS ''illuminates the student's own to \change the culture of the work.\ . college, and be a kind of yeast For arts majors, however, the for interest in the arts.\ The promise of new facilities, change of cultur.e, he pointed out increased staff and a better can be seen from the inventive atmosphere to work in now posters which people steal, to an seems empty. Even the possibility increase in the nu.mber of of taking co\lrses at other schools recordings bought and played on is small, if not nonexistent. The 3- campus. Professor W. Edgar Continued on Page 3 Curtis, music department chairman, said \the arts are a stimulating part of the students' daily living,\ and Mr~ Well added that drama was \a way df knowing, as much for the peopie in the audience as for those who . are participating.\ The Department of the Arts is concentrating on doing and creating as opposed to learning through lecture. The emphasis in music is on composition with ensuing discussion. Art and drama place a similarly high value on the importance of experience and experiment as opposed to being told what to do. The history of the subjects is also considered, desirable, but 1 usually at a higher level of study. \Be first an artist,\ said Curtis. A major complaint among students is the lack of facilities for the arts at Union. Weil resolutely maintained, however, that in the end \all you need for theater is an actor and an audience; the trappings are irrelevant.\ The complaint of poor facilities is heard only tc- within the college, and within the department, after students have already shown an interest in the atts. Mr. Arnold l. Bittleman of J the Art Department stated that \we don't .have the facilities or the staff to attract art majors to this school.\ Perhaps this is true, but as President Martin said, \whether a department flourishes or not has very little to do with Ill facilities.'' Prof. Curtis admitted that \on the whole the arts are treated fairly as a department.\ The image of Union as a Nixon's Man Next Convo. The next scheduled event in the continuing Lecture · anq Concert- · Series will be a Convocation in Memorial Chapel o.n Tuesday October 27, at 11:30 a.m. The speaker, Dolf Drodge, a spokesman for President Nixon's po-licies in Southeast Asia spent the summer speaking under the auspices of the National Security Cmmcil. Because of his political standpoint, he was a direct representative of Administration . policy. Also included in his summer activities was an address to the House and Senate · Student Interns. A member of the group recalls that the students were amazed with the extent to which Mr. Drodge \made the current VietNam policy seem justifiable.\ A · relatively obscure figure When compared with other speakers who addressed the group (Senator Edward Kennedy, Secretary Melvin Laird, and FCC Chairman Nicholas Johnson) his efficacy as an orator is evident in that Drodge was \the most compelling and interesting speaker.we heard.\ Drodge's address here should prove to be particularly pertinent in light of the student strike here last spring, in that it win present the students with an alternative viewpoint. By MICHAEL GOLER The great need for blood donations next week, a talk by President Harold C. Martin on the provisions of Union College for actions to be taken in the event of violations of New York State Rules of Governance, and a literal flood of constitutional amendments and motions occupied the Student Senate meeting yesterday evening. On behalf of the Red Cross agencies in the Tri-Cities Area. Mrs. Hall, a full-time Red Cross Worker, informed the Senate of the ever-increasing need for blood all over the United States. The blood drive at Union will be on Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, and the times will be made available to the members of the college community very shortly. A challenge has been made by Skidmore and a keg of draft will be given to the living unit with the highest percentage of donating members. Mr. R. Gordon Bingham, assistant to the President, told the Senate that, thanks in part to the alertness of the Senate, the corrections in the selection of members of various student- faculty committees have been made. The people who were incorrectly appointed will, however, remain on · their committees for the duration of this school year, while. the correct appointees will also serve at the same time. Next year, Mr. Bingham said, the situation will return to normalcy ... In short, I blew it. Corrections went out the beginning of this week! ·Thank you for pomtmg out the error and your dissatisfaction with it.\ Mr. Bingham said to the entire Senate. President Martin then addressed the Senate concerning the rules issued by the State of New York about actions the college should take in times of rule violation and campus unrest. The questions raised centered around whether the members of the college community were insufficiently aware both of the regulations of student life at Union and of the provisions set up by Union to deal with any situations of violation which may Continued on Page 3 Button Asks Student ~id In Defeating Stratton By HARRIS SAMUELS Yesterday afternoon, Congressman Dan Button spoke to a group of about 40 people in Hale House Student Lounge at a meeting arranged by the Movement for a New Congress. That organization is working in 35 key Congressional races throughout the country, where there is a close contest between a hawkish and a dovish candidate. Button's opponent is Congressman Sam Stratton. Because of redistricting, these two popular incumbents are running against each other to represent the 29th district of New York, which includes Albany and Schenectady. Republican Button became congressman· several years ago when he defeated the candiqate of the poWerful Albany Democratic organization for the position. Stratton is now representative from the Amsterdam area but gained great popularity in Schenectady by being 'mayor here and Congressman from this district in the past. ourselves . .,., He stressed that Stratton is committed to the military and votes for a great deal of military spending. Button said the military budget should be cut so that money could be used for other priorities. He was against ABM and MIRV appropriation hills. The Congressman said he believes in party unity even though he thinks the Republican party should be heterogeneous enough to include candidates of varied viewpoints. Thus he generally supports Republican candidates even though he considers himself ideologically closer to people like Humphrey and Muskie. rather than Nixon and Agnew. The movement for a new Congress still needs help on this campaign. Anyone interested can reach them through the Student Activities Office. Pow.er Fails Students Wail Mr. Button said that the major On Tuesday night, October 20 issue in his race against Stratton the electricity was cut off in all is \where we want to commit dormitories (only Fox and Subcommittee On Holds First Public Davidson were not affected) in Mo . dels .or~er to repair fa~lty insulations · 1 wh1ch were . causmg a power problem. This was not done Hear .lng because of a shortage or · · .· . . : inadequecy of power. The cut By PETER DICKERMAN The Subcommittee on Models of the Pr~sident's Ad Hoc Committee on Governance held its first public hearing Tuesday amid apparent continuing student apathy. Only a handful of spectators were present· for the Tuesday morning meeting, and it appeared at first as if no governance models would be proposed. However, Professor Carl Niemeyer arrived and extemporaneously reqounted some of his proposals for college governance. Niemeyer stated that apathy among faculty members ·has been a problem at Union during the entire time he has been here (since the years immediately following World War II). Furthermore, he conceded that \I don't think I've be.en very successful in combating this attitude.\ Niemeyer emphasized that ., each faculty member has an obligation to help govern himself, but added that faculty could be helped by new or modified governmental structures which would increase a feeling of efficacy. While stating the need for fair representation of faculty in College governance, Niemeyer described the teaching body as \the heart of the college.\ Several tentative proposals concerning faculty representation were made by Niemeyer and, in the ensuing discussion, by his audience. The concept that the Faculty co·uncil.should be larger and should better reflect the diversity of the faculty seemed to gain widespread approval, while other proposals (such as . abolition of the division system) generally met with a mixed reception. Professor Robert Sharlet is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Models, and his co-workers are Walter Spencer '72, Bill Wicker '71, Greg Freelon '72, and Dean James Palmer. Sharlet has stated that the function of the subcommittee is to articulate \comprehensive alternatives\ to the present College system of governance. .These various alternatives will be reported on to . the full Committee on Governance for further consideration. The subcommittee's second public hearing was held last night, and will receive coverage in the next edition of CONCORDlENSlS. lasted from 2-4 a.m. College officials expect that there will be a continuous power problem in the men's dorms if electric hotplates and other appliances are used. The buildings are not equipped to handle the overload and rewiring would be necessary to handle it. However, the cost of such work would be too high to make it practical. Among resulting problems would be overloaded wall sockets which would cause a general power strain in the rooms as well as a fire hazard. The lights would not in most cases be affected, except in rooms where lights and outlets are on the same circuit. The power crisis . was also responsible for blackouts in the library and some classroom buildings earlier this week. The possibility of building kitchenettes in Fox and Davidson similar to those in Richmond is now being considered. However, estimates involving the cost of plumbing and cooking appliances have varied. Currently, cooking in the rooms is frowned upon prit]larily due to unsanitary conditions precipitated by excess garbage and unpleasant odors in the dorms where cooking goes on. ' I i' ·1 1 1 .1

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENS/S, OCT. 23, 1970 ·confront The Mouthpiece Kent State is far away from here, isn't it? Students have nothing in common, and only the administration would worry if Walt Spencer were a.rrested. Absolved of guilt by the president·ial. commission and arrested by the system's courts is the way the story reads. It can't happen here and certainly never again, right? Tuesday, Dolf Drodge, claimed by some to he the Republic's most articulate spokesman, will explair:1 away the Nixon Administration's shortcomings in a Convocation at 11:30. All those students who participated or sympathized with last spring's strike should welcome .a chance to question this mouthpiece of government policy. Maintenance Department? The campus is expanding in all directions, academically and physically; space is a luxury which departments jealously guard. Yet, N ott Memorial, the most distinctive b-uilding on campus is fully a third wasted because the Maintenance Department cannot be gotten to clean it up. Why is it that requests from the Arts Department go neglected by this last bulwark of philistinism? Jobs as simple as cle(lning the skylights in Carnagie, painting a room, and many more have been requested for up to two years with no a'ction. Are the other Departments in the school this neglected, if so what does the Maintenance Department actually do? Threats to contact influential alumni and the Board of Health seem a little extreme but may prove necessary if the administration continues its present 'attitude. LET·TERS TO THE EDITER · To the Editor: Tried to find a book at the library lately? Maybe, if your subject is not too popular and relatively obscure, you will find it. Chances are;- however, that if someone before you needed it, it is now listed as ''missing.\ It seems that some of us at Union have found a more efficient way to receive material from the library. We don't bother to check books out anymore. And when we're done, why hike all the way back to Schaffer Heights? Remove the binding, and put the book in the circular can near. your desk. . . . You mean those are not book collection receptacles? With some cooperation on our part, we would all be better served by the quality library that we have. Name withheld by request To the Editor: This week's Concordy is a piece of turd. We found it distressing as Union students, that with the lack of news available our reporters still find it possible to ignore perhaps the most newsworthy event of the weekend - The Tour de Union. Hundreds of spectators and participants were on hand for what turned out to be an exciting and enjoyable diversion from the weekend grind of concerts and parties. A posed formal picture of the winners and \Tex\ Martin hardly captured the spirit of the event. Even a local T.V. station found it worthy enough to make the late news. Granted the Concordy staff tries ha.rd to find news to fill two issues a week, but obviously they are failing miserably. Instead of printing two worthless' issues a week ·why not concentrate on getting the BIG news in one, terse, concise, weekly edition. Certainly 50,000 screaming bicycle enthusiasts can't be wrong! Rick Arons, '73 Larry Bernstein, '73 Howard \Nate\ Seife, '73 ~'tlDim/~l ~}q~~ ~'i/..;·&~ Q!nnrnr ~@cJ: bttusin %~LVJ~~ Mmlifnl Edftor William Ouzer· Newa Editor Loui1 S. Snitkoff .,, .. e•M••aer Lloyd Bi1111 .u.t. News Editor Peter Bic:kerman ·Nitloalt Ad,. Mp. Neil Green .. <?~ Editotr-fa.Chlel' Peter J. WeiRJokl Fat~n~IF.ditor Daniel Scbochet l'tloCop'aplly Editor JodySaslow Layout Ultor Dous Wons Aalt·~-~ · OougToshb DouJBilidtir l!:•tcllt!T.e ~or ·Heniy G. Fein spc.u F.4lfor William J. Holleran Contribatlna Eclitor Richard L. Kramer Alit. 8porU Editor Mark Shusoll A ... Pbotlicnl*r· f.dlton Charles Long · Dive Conrey STAFF: Nina Wolff. Harris Samuels. Abby Schut7er. Judy Steinbach, Michael Goler, Les Goldman. Joseph Achenbaum. David Conti, Greg Hamlin. Bruce Garber. Mike Gottlieb. M. Grossman. Michael Hollander. George Kaplan. Robert A. Levine. Mike Meserole. Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton, Michael Rosenburg, Burgess Brier, Brenda Kaplan, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell. Jay Hobard, Len Solomon, George Bain. Marty Berman. Reid Russel. Gail Goodman Published Tuesdays and Friday• during the sclwnl ~car h; the studcill ~od; 11! Unian College. Schencctad~. 'i.Y. Nalional AdHrll>J~g Rcprcscnlall\e, \\'\'\\' Educatl()nal Advertising Ser1 ice. Inc .. College F'uohshcrs Rcprcsentnt••e. J/lO Lexington Ave .. N.Y.C Editorial .-ffict'. Old G)m. l'ni<ln Cnllegt•. Puolicath>n Office. The World Puhlicat10ns. 771 State Street.. Schencctad). 'i.Y. 12:10·7. 346- 2356. Entered in the Schenectad; posl oflicc as Sccnnd Cl:1\ Muil Mutter. Subscription 20 c~11ts a cop). $6 a )car dcln crcd an;'' here m tht• 1 1 nitcd Sltltcs. Local Environmental Group To Clean Up Creek·, Then Nation By REID Rl;JSSELL Tuesd11.y. I have just returned from the creek that runs through Jackson Gardens where, for the second consecutive week, members of the Schenectady P. Y.E. Club have collected hundreds of pounds of garbage. Considering that the creek was last cleaned out just a couple of years ago, this is a rather staggering statistic. There was one noticeable improvement in the creek's condition this week, however. The suds from an unid'entifiable source were gone, the better to see the pearly green water. The point of my relating all this is to point out the apathy of students in regard to the campus environment, let alone the world environment. Last week, six students were involved with cleaning the creek. Today, there were all of ten or twelve. Hardly an example of enthusiastic community support. My inherent pessimism warns me that nothing I say could convince most people to abandon their apathy but in the hope that thy still remain in few who care enough to do something, I intend to introduce an outlet upon which they can vent their ,energies. Introducing: the Schenectady P.Y.E. (Protect Your Environment) Club. P.Y.E. is open to the community but is based here on campus. It was established last January and peaked on Earth Day, with a day long program, after which interest waned. Unfortunately, the problems of the environment did not fade into oblivion just because of one Earth Day. Thus, P. Y.E. is back again this year with an ambitious program. Given first priority among the various ideas has been the establishment of . a pollution phone number by which a municipal law, stating that a landowner can be made to clean up his property,. can be enforced. The purpose of fhe phone number is to encourage people to; \rat\ on those whom they would not ordinarily want to offend by reporting them themselves. P.Y .. 'E. feels this idea will be of immediate benefit to the community a:p,d that it may also provide some well-needed publicity. Another idea .is the submission to the city of proposals for new municipal laws , governing the environment.· Two ideas under consideration are a law to increase the number ,of garbage pickups per week as well a:s a Ia w requiring that a certain number of trees be planted each time a certain amount of cement is put down. The merits of this last proposal are readily apparent when one observes the solid asphalt beauty of the Two ,Guys parking lot. Also in the club's plans is the establishment of an ·environmental studies program as a regular part of the . Schenectady schools' curriculum. the usual clean-up campaigns will, as always, will be a regular feature of the club's activities. As might be expected from looking over P.Y.E.'s program, the most important, and most needed, commodity is people. It takes people to man a phone, people to do research into environmental law, people to wdte the laws, people to design an effecti:ve ellvironmental progtain and yes, even people to dean a creek. Money is no object. P,Y.E. operates on a very limited budget. But P.Y.E. is literally at a standstill until, and unless, it can .acquire. more . members. So, if you give a damn about the city you are now a part of, P.Y.E. meets in the Social Science lounge . every Monday afternoon at 4:30. The pollution problem will he solved only wb,en everyone, pulling together, makes an ,effort to find a solQtion. We can .be together if we try. TONIGHT THE COFFEE HOUSE PRESENTS **CHRIS BLODGETT** and **DAN SILVER** and . **CARL ROSENSTOCK** 8:30 ·P.M. $1.00 Admission. Free Coffee and Cider IN NOTT MEMORIAL r---~--------------~~----------------~~-~--·- W R U C PRESENTS SUNDAY: McCartney is Alive and Well.... maybe. (Special two hour re-run.) MONDAY: Electronic Music from Beatles to Bach. TUESDAY: Winston Churchill: A Tribute WEDNESDAY: Lord Buckley .•. a hip freak before his time. THURSDAY: Jazz workship live from Old Chapel •. Every night at 9 p.m. ®S P 0 A T S W E A R Tumble Tweed, for i.nstance. As rich, thick, and tweedy as if it was carded and spun by hand on foggy $cottish islands. But it wasn't. It's Dacron poly- ester and wool, machine washable, machine dryabfe. Honest. Ul~t . . . . ~quire~bnp 326 STA'I'E STREET, 377~3061 V: Sl BY L..d It w nature told of as the of Dal theater Fearle! directe \Repll Baby\) along' Mr. P Tate.~ vamj>iJ The' and I impos: The s1 profe~ rid til matteJ at the finds hard son i! The its f3 Colle past were '72, I Robe Fh regatl Univ• close! Kna}J divisi divisi third Th week close: Nove - - Ft OCCUI A of th camt requ Presi howf grad1 orga1 tho sf 1971 wor1 inter sam< prog A pass• SUPI mor1 Dep facil men Tl a rr and are equi The in Dei phy the dep equ lS uns thir is ' tho Ill 0 Thf rou tre1 rna exr Th; dra - - 1 Oc1 Le Sc 1 me Ul1 WIJ m1 pr gu C1

to to no very is 4nd part ocial We CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 23, 1970 PAGE3 Gar!l Friedman On Arts: More Enlightenln·g Facts Vampire, Revolutionaries Outlaws Shown On :lo:cal Th,eater Screens common de·twminator. The . 3 _ 3 of Union does not coin~ide of talent.\ The intuitional nature By LANCE FALDUCCIWJTZ It would be a crime against nature if Union students were not told of a fine film that is playing as the second fe~;tture to \House of Dark Shadows\ at tbe State theater. The fi.hn, ''Those Fearless Varnpire Killers\ was directed by_ R<ltnan Polauski \Repu ls.ion,\ •• R.o,sentary's Baby\) and stars the ditector a:long with Jack MacGowran and Mr. ·rolanskrs late wife Sharon Tate. The film is a funny spoof af vampire pictures, spirit . of the film~ can be iilustrated. by relating one scene. A well~endowed waitress holds a crucifix up to a vampire; who smilingly responds, ''Oy, have you got the wrong vampire.\ faculty are all caught up in of women for starting · · · with the schedules of other semantics, the trustees are 1d10ts compo\sition and the building ' d h · schools, and distance further (except for a reveran · w o. IS power of men for creating the · · d h k'd hinders any chance of attending GOOD PEOPLE), an.· t e l·S final composition, is the d 1 . · classes regularly elsewhere. are foul-mouthe · , unrea tst1c, difference that Professor Curtis A bus service is also far unfair, but basically good. The looks forward t:o, and he hopes Polanslci's direction is not brilliant, but always right. He never lets techniqlle get in the way of relating his story. He elicits fine performances from all his actors, with special work from Jack MacGowran as the · b removed from reality be.cause of student demands are JUSt; ut that the men and women will · · h cost; one · bus costs they are going about it m t e \work shoulder to shoulder.\ professor. ·~ . . . Then~ are so many fine touches and hilarious bits that it is impossible to mention them all . The story·involVes a Ben Turpin professor who is determined to rid th~ world of vampires, no matter how much his colleagues at the university scoff at him. He finds his vampire, who is rather hard up for bodies, and whose son is ·IJ. }Joi):J.~sexual .. The entire = Two other movies yau should avoid are the two films at Proctor's, \RPM\ and \Ned Kelly.\ \RPM\ is the story of a radical sociology professor who becofl:les the .president of his college. He gives in to 3{4 of tbe student demands hut cannot give into ''tota:l student control\ of the university. He is forced to call in the police to prevent the destruction of the .computer. . SAILING CLUB ;PLACES SECOND The Union Sailing bub ril~Jd~ its fllll debut at Royal Military College;. Kingston; Ont!lrio, this past ·weekend. Sailing for Union were Jon Knapp '72, Pi!te Larson '72, Richard Mahlntann '73 and Robert Archibald '74. Five teams participated in the regatta which was won by the University of Toronto followed closely by the Union sailors. Jon· Knapp, skippering the 'B' division boat, placed first in his division and Pete Latson placed third in the 'A' division. The club races again · this weekend at Albany State and closes out the fall season there on November 7. The film loses credibility when it expects you to believe that Anthony Quinn is one of the world's foremost radical sociologists who happens to behave like Stanley Kowalski. Part two of the credibility ·gap is that anyone could believe that Quinn's character was ever a radical; he behaves like an obnoxious, patronizing conservative. It is doubtful, or impossible, that a man who can list his radical credentials as Quinn. does in the film .would ever call the cops. It really is not Quinn's fault, though. Stanley Kramer, who solved the racial problem a couple of years ago, brings everything down to the lowest Further Senate Notes • • • Continued frorn Page.l occur, and indeed already have; A final statement on the status of the A.F.RO~T.C. unit on the campus at this point was requested but not made. President Martin did state, however, -that ~he last class to graduate from the R.O.T.C. organization at Union will be those members of the Class of 1971. There will be a pmgram worked out for all students still interested in R.O.T.C. through some kind of cooperation program with RPI, he added. A motion was made and passed to endorse a statement supporting the establishment of a more fully equipped 'Qrama Department, including further facilities, and more · faculty members. The major arguments for such a move wete six-fold: Tbe art and photography studio facilities are unsatisfactorily located., equipped, and close-quartered; There is only one faculty member in the entire \brama Department\ who is just not physically capable of handling the immense load of the department; The technical equipment in tbt Nott Mexnorial is .. old, faulty, and possibly unsafe''; The condition of the third floor of the Nott Memorial is \a potential health hazard to those who must work there\; There is only a theatre in the round at Union, which inhibits tremendously the production of many plays and which limits the experience of the players he~e; The conditiort of fine arts, arid drama in particular, here is Tbere will be a meeting ott October 27 at 3:00 p.m. in the Lecture Room of the Schenectady Museum. The meeting is designed to htform Union Students of the volunteer wtnk a1ailable to them at the museum. Students in the program work under the guidance of Professionlll Curators. unworthy of an jnstitution of the caliber of Union College. President Martin, being present at the time, commented on the school's position. He said that there has been much talk on the problem, but that there is a problem of priorities and of money. For example, just last week at Homecoming there was a general outcry of the alumni for a new gym! As for the erection of a new fine arts center, President Martin s~J.id that, dep~nding on the monetary situation, the administration has two alternatives. The first is an entirely new fine arts center; and the alternative is to build a new theater connecting to the back of Carnegie, with art studios and the other facilities being located inside Carnegie itself. As for funds, President Martin said, \The money will have tQ come from a very generous donor, be it a per.son or an institution.'' If all else fails, and even if all else does not fail, there is still the consortium proposition that the facilities of Skidmore and other colleges in the Mohawk Valley be made available. In parting the President said, \I can't give you any idea as to time, but it involves a lot of money. 1 wish I co!lld say we're going to have [a prosceniulll theatre] right away, but, honestly, I can't.\ A motion was then presented to the Senate to endorse the day of National Civil Libertks set for today,~October 23 by the student body of Kent State University. lt was proposed at KSU to spend the day discussing civil liberties and repression in America. . The Senate also passed an amendment to the election clause of the constitution declaring the spring elections null and void, and the Senate will begin re, election procedures very shortly for all classes, approximately the same as one wrol1g way. faculty member' and it is Despite the public relations The script . is l~y Erich Segal, department, Union College is doubtful as to whether one bus who having described young love would meet the needs of the changing. The complacent in \Love Story,\ now is apathetic science student is no students. Closed circuit interpreting the political longer a valid image, as liberal Th television, now being used at movements on . campus. • e arts and curiosity have grown several schools in the area, is acting is wooden, though Ann- appreciably in recent yearrs. The f . Th probably the answer for small Margret to·oks me. ··· e de.partment of the arts is the best · \S b departments. In this way colleges soundtrack boasts .. ongs · Y example of this growth, from no · 1 can share professors without the Melanie,'' but that 1s on Y two graduating maJ· ors five years a.go · inconvenience of students songs which she did not wnte, to thirty this year. The growth ld , traveling the distances, and as and probably wou · n t. has made it necessary for the · d' d President Martin said, \we're \Ned Kelly\ is a ftlm rrecte· expansion of Center I, · d (T. going to have to make use of it.'' by Tony Rtcp:ar son om · particularly in the arts. A fine · · ') d Martin, as well as the faculty Jones.,, \The Entertamer' an. arts center is not needed this h fil of the departments feel that the star Mick Jagger. T e r m must year, but if the rate of growth of . coeds will have a marked have been made for 76¢; each the. arts continues it will be · 1 influence on the arts here. The shot is seen from only one ang e, needed very shortly. It is the k · President said he would hope and the camera wor ts poor. hope of the students that the h · that the girls bring a There is a soundtrack t at 1s college will continue to be l J · If pyschological influence to the .sung by Way on ennmgs. you responsive to the need for · · • h 1 . arts department through a like country music Its t e on Y change, and this hope includes a reason to see the film. difference in viewpoint and kind fine arts center. ·Two :fr:eshmen Girls Discu.ss Attitudes Toward Frate_rnities Rushing Parties -By JUDY STEINBACH and NINA WOLFF As the traditional rushing season returns to Union, the 15 fraternities on Campus are busy inviting freshmen to their houses. The fact is that a number of coeds have not taken advantage of this opportunity to attend the various fraternity functions. Opinions of several girls explain why. \One of the -, reasons that I came to Union i was because it had no sororities. I just don't like the whole idea of the \Greek System',\ explained• Joan Levenson, •74. \I don't go to the fraternity parties because I just don't like that sort of thing,\ stated Cheryl Kevish, '74. \I prefer to go to parties with people I know because I think I can have a much better time than with a room full of strangers. Of course, I realize that l couldn't possibly know everyone at a frat party, but this is just my personal opinion.\ A- third girl said that she prefers to meet people in ·a less affected atmosphere than is present at the frats. \Fraternity parties seem · almost like cattle shows in which the prize-steers are awarded free beet.\ This situation is not necess~rily a case of pre-'trial judgement; most girls 1 we attended at least one fraternity function, whether it be a post-game get-together, a cocktail party, or a quiet evening of folk singing. 1'\owever, unfavorable reactions to these have put a damper on future attendances. One such disappointed coed explained that she didn't enjoy the parties because \nobody talked to anyone else until they were too drunk to make any sense at all!\ Another got the impression that the brothers were deliberately trying to get the girls The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on November 3 at the Hale House Faculty Lounge, 7:45 p.m. All those interested in participating are welcome. * * * * The Department of Biological Sciences announces a seminar to be held in Bailey Hall Room 308 on Thursday October 29, at 4:30 p.m. The speaker will be Dr. Kenneth Amiraian of the New York State Health Department and .he will discuss .. Gamma Globulins.\ * * * * The Social Committee will present Rahsaan Roland Kirk in FILM HAPS PRESENTS \Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\ Starring Elizabeth Taylor & Richard Burton Directed by Mike Ni~hols (Graduate, Catch-22) Saturday, Oct. 24 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 --~---------- \DUCK SOUP\ With the Marx Bros. Sunday, Oct. 25 3:00, 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 SS016 Admission $1.00 iugh! Betsy Weller. \74 found t.ha, \The parties arc a lot more lun il you go with a mcmhcr. of the frat or if you know many pcopk there.\ Snuhhing of the fratcrnitic~ b by no means practiced h\ all Union coeds. Ruth Morton-_ '7-t. points oul some advanta~c:~. \I think going to frat partie:-. is an excellent way of meeting morl' people. Resides, the food land drinks!) arc much hcttcr than at West!\ Memorial Chapel on 'Saturday, October 31. Kirk has been called \a stimulator of the mind and soul\ by Carleton University. Esquire Magazine says \When you see blind soul brother Roland Kirk playing ... you are witnessing soul, baby.\ Tickets for the concert are $2.00 and are available NOW in the Student Activities Office. A free workshop is also planned. It is to be held at 4:30 in SSO 16 and is free. * * * * There will be an important meeting for anyone interested in working on Publicity for the Mountebanks, on Monday at 7 p.m. in the theater. Europe Swings -15 days $282. Go by Heck 151 Barrett St. 346·3431 SUMMER EUROPE $187i CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES opportunities for students & \educ. staff of your University or Univ. CALL: Uni-Travel Corp., Transatlantic airlines agent (617) 599-0287 group to obtain low-cost travel to Europe. *Round-trip prices as low as $187 for minimum group of 40 . 12 Pine St. Swampscott, Mass. 01907 -·--·-·----0·--- .. -- .. --------· -~----- ~--·-

PAGE 4 CQNCORDIENSIS, OCT. 23, 1970 Concordy Sports Soccer Bows To Blindness, 3-2 Aleksiewicz Vs Gallucci Ref~ Blamed For Hobart Hoist As Grid B~~}H~GO~obart By GEORGE BAIN \Disgust and frustration,\ said Coach Bob McMurray, summing up the Un~on soccer team's 3-2 'loss' to Hobart Wednesday in Geneva. \You teach a good team to play ball, and they do it well, but the officials louse it up.\ Union shot 37 times on the Hobart nets during the wet afternoon and scored only twice. Hobart never had an offensive threat; they took only three shots all afternoon but were credited with three goals, two of which came on plays with Statesmen distinctly offside and a third on a bad break for the Garnet defense. Hobart opened the scoring in the first period on 'a McNamara goal with two men clearlyoffside on the play, but Art Fraser tied the game for the Dutchmen, with an assist from Bob Bernhardt. In the second quarter, Hobart tallied twice, to 'win' the game. Larson was credited with a goal when Union's Tim Foster misplayed a headball, causing the ball to float over goalie Craig Barger's head into the nets; then Randall knocked in Hobart's final goal, with but four men offside this time. Union's protests were to no avail, however. Bernhardt and Dusty Richards helped to close the gap to one by assisting on Pierre Roumain 's third quarter goal to close out the scoring. Hobart had the ball in Garnet territory only twice in the second half, and Union \shellshocked\ their hosts with shots on net in the fourth quarter, according to the Hobart coach. But Union could only capitalize twice on their 37 shots. Coach McMurr1;1y is protesting the game, but only in hopes of improving the quality of the inept officials; there is virtually no chance of changing the final score. The rainy weather. did not hamper the powerful but unlucky Garnet offense. McMurray cited the strong defensive play of substitute Jim Pinkston, filling in at fullback for Jaime Ramirez. Also playing his consistently ''outstanding\ defensive game was Larry Mullman; \he has only missed breaking up a play once all season,\ commented the Coach. Hudson Valley Provides Tough Test For '74 The Union College freshman football team faced its toughest test of the season today across the Capital District against Hudson Valley Community College at Troy. The Dutchmen yearlings, 1-1 , won their first game 21-14 over the Trinity Frosh but dropped a 20-12 decision to the Hobart JV's at\Geneva last Friday. Hudson Valley was ranked nationally early in the season after consecutive wins over two four year colleges but has dropped its last two decisions including a 23-12 defeat to tough Nassau Community College last week. The 3-2 Vikings have been set back by injuries of late but have received top performances from halfback Ernie Skipper, who gained over 220 yards on the ground in the season's opener and is among the national junior · college leaders in rushing. Quarterback George Patrick directs the Hudson Valley attack and has passed for seven touchdowns in five games, while halfback Andy DiSanti is the team's leading scorer with 43 points. The Union freshman leader to date has been Ken Grey, a high school All American at Linton in Schenectady last year. On defense the 6-0, 200 pounder has been a standout at linebacker. He also sees some swing duty on offense, scoring twice this season on short runs. Kevin Coughlan has also shown well at defensive end. The Dutchmen offense is led by quarterback Bob Hall a lefthander, who has been running the triple. option and has passed for two touchdowns so far. With Hall in the starting backfield is Bruce Mathias and Jack Dianetti with AI Albano at fullback. 110UGLAS • MEN'S SHOES 319 STATE ST. NEXT TO UNDERPASS $1 DISCOUNT ON SHOES WITH UNION 1-D CARD Peter Pause ·53·5· -NoH··Street The breaks have been going against the Dutchmen lately. The offense sputtered against Hamilton and RPI, and when Union did stage an impressive o.ffensive threat, negligent officiating denied the Dutchmen what should have been at least a 2-l win. In order to change Union's luck, McMurray has returned from the octagonal system to a more conventional 4-4-3, and he plans to start Bernhardt aj wing inplaceof Bobby Dodd, when the Garnet host Rochester Saturday at 2:00. Union hopes to better its 2-2-1 record at the expense of former Ceach Gary Brown and the Yellowjackets, who are coming off a 1.-0 win over Colgate. Says, a frustrated but still hopeful• McMurray, \If we play ball, we'll win.\ X-Country Fa-lls· To Middlebury By GREG HAMLIN To the Ga,met cross-country team, Qothing could be farther from the truth than the old aphorism, \There's no place like home.\ For the second straight meet, the harriers went down to defeat at their own course, dropping a close 26-29 decision to a strong Middlebury team. The Tuesday defeat merely re- emphasized the Dutchmen's major weakness - a lack of depth. Thus far this season, only three runners have consistently been near the front of the pack. Against the Panther, this trio - Tim McCabe, Bob Nesbitt, and Bryant Moeckel - finished in the third, fourth, and ftfth spots respectively. However, between Moeckel and Union's fifth men there (who copped the tenth ·position), there was a gap Qf over a minute. As the season progresses this situation should change. Unlike most of Union's opponents, who have been running for nearly two months, the Garnet have only been training for 4!;2 weeks. On Wednesday, a - team composed of J. V. runners and a few varsity harriers met a squad from Williston Academy in a practice meet with the Gamet eking out a narrow 28-29 Victory over the Wildcats. This Saturday the Dutchmen, who now own a 3-2 record, travel to Clinton, N.Y. to face Hamilton's cross-country team. So far this year the Continentals boast an unblemished dual meet log. The Union football tea-m will take their 3-2 record to Geneva, New York, tomorrow for the annual run-in with the Hobart College Statesmen. The Statesmen are winless in four tries this year, but are coming off a strong showing against undefeated Alfred las~ Saturday. H0bart ripped away for 198 yards on the ground. agamst a. Saxo.n defense that had limited. opponents to only 33 rushmg yards m the1r first four games, but still bowed 31-22. The Statesmen jumped out to a 14-3 lead in the game, and trailed by only 24-22 before Alfred scored the clincher with 55 seconds left in the game. The Hobart attack is led by sophomore tailback Don Aleksiewicz. The 6'-1\ 180 pounder has already gained 574 yards in 99 carries this season, an average of 5.5 yards per carry. Aleksiewicz rushed for 106 yards in eight carries last year when the Statesmen defeated Union 35- 21 in Schenectady. Bob Raleigh is the Hobart quarterback. The sophomore thrower has hit on 35 of 102 passing attempts for 459 yards,. and is also considered a strong running threat. Last year versus the Garnet he carried the ball 14 times for 87 yards. The Statesmen defensive unit features the play of linebackers Russ Dye and Kevin Kelly, along with tackle Bill Zupan. .. . . . . . The Union defense, which has limited opponents to 29 pomts m 1ts first five games, landed three men on the E.C.A.C. W~ekly All-Star Teamfor their performances against R.P.I. Rit Gallucci, who halted two Engineer scoring threats deep in Garnet territory, led the trio by gaining one of the eleven defensive position. GaUucci recovered a: Rensselaer fumble at the Union two-yard line to halt one drive and later blocked a 12-yard field goal attempt. . Sophomores Tom Anacker and Charl.ie Weekes gained Honorabl.e Mention on the weekly team. Anacker mtercepted a pass and ran It back 33 yards for one of the Union touchdowns, and led the defense with 16 ·- ckles. Wee,kes guided the Garnet lineman as they applied a. steady rush ~n Engineer backs. R.P.I. runners were dropped for a total of 99 yards m losses. In his tenure as head football coach at Union, George Flood has beaten Hobart only twice in six previous tries while Statesmen m~ntor Alva Kelly is .5-2 against the Dutchmen. In 1962, Hobart's only wm of the season came at the hands of Union, while in 1956 the Garnet won at Geneva to provide the only blemish on ~obart's 7-1 sl~te. Overall, Union leads the series with 28 wins to Hobart's 25, and two games ending in ties. 2-1 Win Over ·williston Frosh Booters Hustle To By MARTY BERMAN The freshman soccer team got goals from Chuck Booth and Jim Brennan and hustled their wayto their second consecutive victory, 2-1 over Williston on Wednesday. Playing their first game on Daley Field, the Dutchmen jumped out in front midway in the first period. Brennan, taking a pass from Booth opt in front, beat the \Wildcat goalie to the far side for his first goal of the year. Towards the end of the half, Booth took a long lead pass from fullback Dave Van Arnan and scored on a breakaway, slipping the ball into the right hand side of the net. the tally, Booth's first of the campaign also, gave the Garnet a 2..;(} lead and was the eventual margin of victory. With 4:47 remaining on the clock for the third period, Williston drew within one when the Wildcats headed a comer kick into the Union goal. F~r ~he remainder of the game Union outplayed their adversaries decidedly. The fourth quarter featured perhaps the best soccer exhibited by the yearlings this year. The ball was consistently in Williston's end of the field, while sharp passing and good hustle kept the opposing netminder under constant fire. The ball hit the posts several times and many other ·close-in• opportunities just tnissed. Garnet goalie Jim Sletteland saved a last-second desperation shot to preserve the hard-earned victory. Next Tuesday the yearlings face Schenectady Community, with the prospects for a winning season resting heavily on the contest. Union's final match of the season is against strong Middlebury on October 31, .so the Garnet need a ,.Victory against the Schenectadiaris to assure a winning slate. Nusbaum's \OUTFITTERS TO MEN and YOUNG MEN\ MOHAWK MALL BALLTOWN RD. SCHENECTADY DOWNTOWN 447 STATE ST. - .... .• 'lo!

- ci , New ollege lt are lay. )axon their t to a cored ~wicz. f) this r 106 n 35-. :r has :lered ~ball Russ in its -Star alted 0 by ed a and rable mit 'ense b. on :Is in has ntor .n of won :rail, 1mes Ilion ries 1red 1ited The in hile tstle lder hit any just and :ion t1ed ngs tity, ing the of mg so nst a .• '),I Founded at Union Cf!llege 1877 Martin Talks To Students, Subject: College Politics By PETER BICKERMAN President Harold C. Martin last night held the first in a series ' of informal discussions with students, l;lnd c;lealt with the topic of \Politics and the College.\ In his brief talk, Martin paid attention to two distinct areas of concern - external pelitics (that which originates off the campus) and internal politics (actual college governance). Dealing first with external politics, the President stated that, regarding the actions of the college, \My own conviction is · · that there has to be institutional neutrality.\ He continued, however, that the application of this rather straightforward statement is often ·difficult, due .(Photo by Steve Ente) to the various possible definitions PRESIDENT MARTIN of the term \neutrality.\ Martin, ttT each-in\ At library Plaza, American Fascism R'ise Cited By DAVID CONTI Library Plaza on Friday afternoon was the setting for a \teach-in seemingly- organized by Mr. Dennis Peskin of the English Department at which a wide rang!! of topics were discussed, angrily argued, and, naturally, not resolved. Mr. Peskin, along with Andy Pyle from outside the College Community, presented the crowd with their thoughts and fears concerning the \rising fascism and oppression\ apparent in America today. Andy used the indictment ·Of students at Kent State University who had nothing to do with the uprisings as an example of the fascism; violence, he feels, is the only solution. He further stated that students at Kent are arming themselves and will not allow themselves te be shot at again. Pyle explained that the tactics of repression of the people take on ·different forms; students at schools such as Union are being put down by \sugar coated bullets\ aimed at them by university presidents who use the \facade of legality and justice\ to squelch expressions of unrest and desire for change. _ Andy - stated his belief that there are two ways to look at the current crisis in the U.S. First, . All College Senate Plan Meets Kdk.Oppositions By TOM MITCHELL Members of the Subeomtilittee on Models of the Committee on Governance met last thursday night to discuss proposals for an improved college government. Only one· proposal · was introduced to the subcommittee, headed by Professor Robert Sharlet of the Political Science Department. The proposal, written by Mark Coven, Phil Galdston, Jerry Hyman, and Don Kessler, i& aimed at \eliminating politics\ and assuring harmony in college government. Basically, it is an effort to increase the powers of students while .decreasing the power of the president in college affairs. Based on a desire for a more representative government, the proposal calls for -an All College Senate (ACS), including eight students, eight faculty members, and four administrators (one of which would be the president). The ACS would nave \all fiiJ,al decision making powers on all issues concerning . the entire college community;\ Decisions are to be made on a one man-one vote basis. TheFe was obvious opposition to parts of this plan. Dean James Palmer of the Center for Science and Engineering a member of the subcommittee, believes the plan is too complicated, would retard the decision making process (due to the greater numbt:r of persons involved in making decisions) and 'tie the hands; of the President. The counter argument to this was that greater representation in government offsets delays in decision making. It was also pointed out that this model lacks a leader and does not take into account the prevailing apathy of Union students toward college government. Prof. Sharlett cautioned that the proposal would not be considered on an all or nothing basis, implying that some parts could be included in the subcommittee's report to the full Committee on Governance. the imperfections and wrongs can· be changed within the system, and second, the country is heading irrevocably into a police state situation and can only be saved by armed revolution. !he second view is correct, he said, and the fascism is soon going to be opposed and overthrown by the people. He believes that the only answer to our ills is socialism like that practiced in China. \There is complete freedom for the masses in China,\ he declared. The group staTted out small but grew during the afternoon. The aim of the teach-in was to prese.nt and. discuss ideas concerning America's plight; several dialogues, ho.wever, often blazed simutaneously, and talking frequently degenerated into yelling matches void of any intellectual substance.. Two students in particular raised objections to many of the statements made by Peskin, Pyle, .·and others. As the day wore on, the meeting broke up into several smaller groups where, - often, heated debates were evident. Peskin talked about Black Panther repression. the common occurrence of unprovoked attacks on students by police, and the senseless police brutality in ghetto areas as exemplified by -incidents in Hartford recently. He stated his belief that Union College is \integrally related to the oppressive culture;\ he cited several major corporations involved · in .. r~search and destruction that have a vested interest in continuing Union College.\ The College, Peskin continued, is subject to all kinds of economic control that forces it ·to \bring in and turn out the . economic elite and privileged\ establishment of America. Peskin feels that the United States will become a free and just hation only when young men and women stop becoming part of the privileged establishment and create a \dialectical opposition to echoing the .general belief among college administrators, asserted that in order for every person within the institution to be free to express his view;s, the institution itself must remain uncommitted to any particular point of view. Martin emphasized, however, that the college cannot be indifferent to the community· surrounding it. Indeed, he stated that the college is very rnuch a part of the outside world, and that campus life generally reflects (or follows) the prevalent flow of society. Moreover, Martin asserted that while. the college community may reflect a minority view within the political community, still the college has .. some kind of moral comrnittment\ to the general rules and practices .of American society. He added that colleges should be committed to continuing political dialogue and encouraging the widest possible range of \intelligent argument.\ The issue of institutional neutrality was brought up later in the meeting with student questions concerning ROTC on campuses. President Martin admitted that he was not sure if ROTC programs constitute a violation of collegiate neutrality, and implied that this answer must involve one's value judgments of the role of the military. Turning his discourse to the realm of internal politics, Dr. Martin noted that until recent years there bad been little discussion concerning college governance, simply because the president and trustees had total power, with the fac~l~y regarded as \hired hands .. and the students as something less than that. However, in the past several decades there has been a change in the balance of power, with students and particularly faculty gaining a degree of authority. Thus, there has been a gradual move toward decentralization and democratization in campus governance. Yet, Martin reaffirmed that the college cannot be governed as a democracy, for the \idea of the total mass making decisions is just not feasible.\ Rather than attempting participitory democracy, students and faculty members have a voice through a representative system. In actuality, the Board of Trustees constitutes the only legal college entity, but (at least in the case of Union) the Trustees restrict themselves to broad policy matters. In referring specifically to Union, Martin described the administration as both an \operational arm\ and a .. policy developing arm\ of the College. The Faculty Council generally exercises control over curricular matters, while the All College Council handles non-curricular affairs. The resulting system, in Dr. Martin's terms, is something of an organizational· '\hodgepodge inclined to change slowly and provide stability. Students questioned the President on a wide variety of topics, some of which will be covered in detail during subsequent discussions. The next informal Martin talk will take place in two weeks, and will likely deal with budgetary matters. Roland Kirk on Saturday, Jazz Invades the Chapel it. He urged students not to accept the refined form of bullshit they are exposed to in the classroom and to go out into the community and see what the truth really is. Roland K.1rk will be in concert at Memorial Chapel, Saturday night, October 31 at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are now available at Student Activities for only $2.00. Kirk will hold a free workshop on Saturday afternoon at 4:30 in SS016. The Coffeehouse will be open with no admission charged after the concert, beginning at I 1 p.m., and will feature Tom Winslow, folksinger and co-originator of the Clearwater Project with Pete Seeger. Next in line from the Social Committee will be \Sha Na Na\ for Fall Week1nd. They will perform in Memorial Chapel on Saturday, November 7 at 8:30 p.m. Tickets will go on sale tomorrow at Student Activities. \Jethro Tull\ concludes the fall term of entertainment on November 13 at 8:30 p.m. in the Field House. Also appearing will be McKendree Spring. Tickets are $3.75 at Student Activities and ticket outlets in the Tri- Cities Area and will be $4.50 at the door.

~ I .1 PAGE 2 OCT. 27, 1970 Maaillla i.lllllor William Ouz.ei\ News .f.Aitclr Louis S. Snitkotr •wl r•M-.pr Lloyd Birns Alii. News Editor Peter 84ckemuan ·NatkiDIIUdt. Mar. Neil Orceq fAIItallollt-CirW Peter J. Wein,rold F'eat.ealdltar O.niel Sc:hoc:het ............ , •. Jocly Saalow tayCMt!aor ~usWona Alit. Jlt•••~!ll- \!•aen DougTosb • Dou.,a BitidCr £~-­ .Henry G. Fein . SPadaF.IIItor William J. tfolleran C4iiii1blhii .. I'Mtor Richard 1.,. Kramer Aat. s,.c.·l'.ditor Mark ShUi<ill Alit ............ , fAIJCon Charla l.oaa Dave Conrey ~T AFF: ~·i1,1a Wolff. Harris Samuels. Abbv Schut1cr. Judv Stembach. Mtchael. Galer. Les Goldman. Joseph Achenhaum. David CO.nti. Greg Hamhn. Bruce Garher. Mike Gottlkh~ M. Grossman Michael Hollander. George Kaplan. Rohert A. LeY·ine. Mike Meserole: Thomas Morante. Ruth Morton, Michael Rosenburg. Burgess Brier, Brenda Kaplan. Barbara McDonald. Tom Mitchell, Jay Hobard. Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman. Reid Russel, Gail Goodman Column Fights OppresSion, Good Times The New Key By RAY KRISE JR. three years ago; but I still find . I think I mentioned some time politics, per se, boring, and can m the past .that what hurts me see their use only so far as· most is seeing those things which maniupulating them win allow are closest to me being perverted: me and my brothers and sisters I guess that's why the big hoo-ha to live the lives we want. The that happened outside the librar\· New Left is founded oh life not this past Friday disgusted me :;,, ·. on bullshit and . al~ays You see, I've been into the Left remember that all words (even ever since I was born, about these) are bullshit. · . ' ... ' LETTERS TO, THE EDIIER · To the Editor: Although dining at West College is much like trying to eat a box lunch in a crowded subway oar, there are a few things that make it even more unpleasant. Like the smelly dogs and children. begging at your table, or standing in line and having five or ten people push in front of you. We all know what haJ>pens if you say anything about that situation. Anyways \everyont: does it\ and ''you just notice us because ... \ Or if you haven't eaten lunch in Hale House; the prices are really an e~petience. It is like the· s~udents are being mil'kedto pay for free .faculty lunches, which isn't true of course. is it? N.W.B.R. With the above definition of words in mind, we c11:n readily s~e that what the cats who started the thing Friday produced was enough bullshit to fertilize Death 'V·~ II \Y ' .- · · a ey. , ,ou re oppressed! You're oppressed!\ they cried, never seeming to dig the fact that the best way to be unop,pressed is just to do whatever the hell ya wanta do; bitching about oppression just makes you more oppressed. Tom Paine was an outlaw; Tom Jones. had a good time. You see, we keep forgetting t~at :~11 anybody is too king .for in hfe 1s to have a good time. We also keep forgetting tbat people have good: times irt ways different from each other: some will be happy with nothing less than absolute power (go to Whittier ~ll¢ge), others are happy by a qwet stream (go to. ,Jackson's American Justice In Schenectady; Even Radicals Should Have Rights 'Fo the Editor: Gardens), and still other. people The last issue of ·Concordy are happy just sitting artd doing with the exception of the letter to ·nothing (go to a language class) .. the Editor by Rick Aatons, Unfortunately, humans seem Larry Bernstein, and Howard compelled . to exhort their. Seife was typica-l, bad news! That 'brothers and sisters to follow the letter was the only interesting same road to hap~iness that th~y piece I discovered in the them~elves . have chosen. Thts Concordy. 1 feel the newspaper .. practice leads to . s~ch oddities as should follow the ad:vice given by Gary Mau~er calling.. ·everybo~y these students. Discounting the else a fasCI~t. It leads to a kl~ sports page, the student who does~t. even go to thts newspaper at Union leaves much school hltc~mg about how to be desired. One constructive oppressed Umon students are. By LEONARD SCHNEIDER Gary Maurer was arrested last week for the alleged harassment of two police officers. Last Wednesday, Gary had his trial before Judge Hardy, who was philosophically chuckling about his son Andy's latest predicament. After sitting through a series of traffic violations, the\ examinations began. Gary's examination was second on the docket; the first involved a Miss Cathleen Hodge who had sold some heroin to an undercover agent. ··could you tell the coun what transpired on the night of October J'?\ ••1 told Cathleen Hodge that Jake sent me and that f, was going to a party in Saratoga and I needed some drugs. She said she could get me some smack.\ ••Did you know what 'smack' \No. I had never heard the term before'?\ \You just said you wanted some drugs for a party and Miss Hodge said she could get you some smack?\ How long have you been on the vice squad'!\ \Six months.\ \And you never heard the term 'smack' before'!\ ··No sir.\ At that point, those of us who were not doubled over laughing were outraged that we pay taxes for a vice squad. The people deserve better undercover agents.· Personally, I gave the officer a copy of Naked Lunch, which is tax deducta ble. To make an absurd story short, Midd Hodge must face trial for selling $10 worth of heroin to a police officer. Then Gary got his !1 hour in court. The first witness for the pr~secution was the arresting off1cer, who promptly put his right hand on the bible and raised his left. The judge gently corrected him. \Could you tell us what happened?\ •• ... and we asked to see his identification and he called us pigs and bastards and we told him he'd better show us his identification or we'd see it at the station. Then he started to beat us so that we had to subdue him. He kept calling us pigs and bastards.\ \ The prosecutor was very clever. If you've ever read a Ia\' novel with greater sophistication than Perry Mason, you know that a brilliant legal tactic is to repeat the most offensive part of the testimony over and over. The lawyer ended his examination with such a play. \I can't remember what Mr. Maurer called you. Would you repeat it please?\ \He called us pigs and bastards.\ \Thank you, that will be all.\ A jury would be reinforced in Gary's .. anti-social\ behavior. Unfortunately, there was no jury, simply a judge who must have been insulted. Then Gary, who was his own lawyer, began questioning. \Do you know if it is legal for a policeman to demand identification from a citizen, without the officer having a warrant?\ ••1 object, your honor. A policeman doesn't have to know the law?\ ··objection overruled.\ Always very fair. Kurt Vonnegut has informed the college that he will not be able to attend the convocation at which he was scheduled to speak next week. In a letter to the Lectures and Concerts Committee, Vonnegut excused .himself due to heavy committments evolving from his new teaching position at Harvard and upcoming deadlines with his publisher. Novelist John Updike (author of Rabbit Run, Couples, and Bech: A Book) will be here on Wednesday Evening, November 4, at 8 p.m. in Memorial Cbapel. \I don't know. The laws change all the time!\ The second officer then took the stand and repeated the first's story, except to cite his injiuy. (\And which leg were you kicked in?\) The prosecution rested, and Gary gave his version of the incident. The judge asked him the questions. \They hit me first. 1 fought only when I was blackjacked and maced... I called them fascists . and lackeys and running dogs.\ \Anything else?\ \I called them fascists, lackeys, and running dog& and pigs.\ \Did you call them bastards?\ Lenny Bruce was sure that his first arrest for obscenity was only an excuse to give everyone in the courtroom a chance to say ··cocksucker.\ After hearing everyone in the courtroom but Gary repeat \bastard'' over and over again, rm willing to believe it. The prosecutor then cross- examined Ga,ry. Doing an E.G. Marshall imitation, the public defender repeated the policemen's story in the form of questions. A lawyer would have objected to 75% of his questions; Gary was too busy defending himself to realize the obvious technical fouls. The prosecution summed up by reading the laws Gary was supposed to have broken. Gary tried to defend himself and disseminate radical thought at the same time. The rhetoric was most persuasive after spending the morning watching out judicial system at work. Gary was fined $100 or ten days in jail. The moral is that if a policeman says something, DO IT. idea I can give to Concordy is to get Mr. Aarons, Mr. Bernstein, and Mr. Seife tojoin the staff. Ron \Rock\ Ajres, '73 To the Editor: In the last Concordy there was a letter to the Edifor decrying the quality of this newspaper. The writers complained that the important news was not covered and that what was covered was d~ne poorly. To these people I wish to say that it is hard work to put out a newspaper, a lot of hard work. Those people who manage to get one out twice a week deserve credit for that, not derogatory comments about the quality. . If you feel that the quality that you want in a newspaper is not there do something about it other ' than complaining to the Editor. Why can't you help to put it together! Concordy is the Union College newspaper, and as Union College students you can add to it. Gail Goodman '74 Mid-Town BARBER SIIOP 377-4010 By Appointment 515 Union St. MAMA BIANCHI'S R~ST AU RANT 1l35 Barrett St. Real ·Italian Food Cooked · To Order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. aqd SAT. Bitch, bitch, bitch: why dtc:tn't they dance, why didn't they sing? Be · unoppressed - tickle each other, stand on your head, ball. We don't demand you kick ROTC off campus - we demand all the Trustees smoke joints! Live, people, live! Do it!, don't talk about it! The sadness of a death is predicat~d on what amount of life preceeded it. We've been dying ever since Woodstock, my people. We're dying because we're caught up in the same bnllshit we abhor in our parents. Gary, Dennis, Larry, Steve, all of you, remember - laughter is more powerful than any bullet. Jesus knew that. All he did was change the world. People, I love ya. Please try to love yourselves. I EXPERT Jewelry and WATCH REPAIR- FREE ESTIMATES Our Work Is Fully Guaranteed DOWNTOWN 163 Jay St., Sch'dy 372-0540 OPEN TUES. & THURS. •'TIL 9 P.M. •1)1 J') I I

9f was ya out an in ent be a ple as b.is g? a ce in to OCT. 27, 1970 1 CONCORDIENSIS, PAGE 3 1\HAT~S FUNNY.· MY I.D. PICTURE Demonstrators on Red Polemics Ask tt:Which · Side Are You On? By AL\AN COHEN Friday was somewhat ·of a national moratorium day asked for by ·some students at Kent State in the wake of recent mass political arrests. At Union, a group of people instigated a discussion in the library plaza intended to reach Union students with a new censciousness of revolution. Most of the people there are not revolutionists at this time. Whether or not new ideas and actic::ms can make them change is the question at hand. only at the cost of the psychological fulfillment of many. Besides our concern with the .problems, the issue becomes our outlook on life. Is life meant t0 be ordered? Do we perhaps enjoy the challenges inherent with the problems of inequities? Is Utopia not only inaccessible but undesirable? Is revolution accepted more widely by those who feel bored and see romantic· roles as most desirable? Can we ever accept a dogmatic ·definition of life and its meanings? Now look at all we've done with a sabre and a gun, Tell me is it worth it all? (From \I Ain't Marching Anymore\ by Phil Ochs on Electra Records.) Killing has always been followed by more. Board Back.ing Ottinger, Old Dem·oc:ratic Coalition The general apprehension involved in acceptin.g a revolution involves the degree of one's opposition to present conditions, the new system, and methods of achieving revolutionary change. The basic issues involve repression or alleged repression the Panthers' deaths, the Indochinese wars, inequitable judicial laws, an economy based on inequalities, Indians living in poverty on reservations and other situations involving alleged imperialism. Meth0ds of achieving the extremist goals include armed resistance. Out of principle, fear and training, many don't want to ever have to shoot a gun. The pacifistic ethic lives on from the early years of anti-war protests: Most people around here .probably cannot accept that the situation has come down to taking the most drastic actions. The extemists may well be correct in their interpretations of correcting the basic problems. The rest of us can choose whether or not to join those who have already taken their stand. Perhaps because of the establishment's reaction to the extremists, we may be forced to choose fairly soon which side we are on. By {'ETER DICKERMAN · Political Science Chairman . Joseph Board, wearing a large \Ottinger\ button which removed all' doubt as to his preference, made predictions concerning his candidate and others duting a discussion last week of the upcoming elections. In dealing With the New York Senate race, Prof. Board (who is serving as coordinator for the Ottinger campaign in Northeastern New York) forecast Richard Ottinger's · victory. Board's opinion rests upon the belief that Ottinger will be able to hold. together the traditional Democra~ic coalition consisting of minority grouns, ocganized labor, and the ideologically Uberal. This belief is based upon the assumption that old party affiliations are still strong enough to resist new trends, particularly applicable in the case of blue- collar workers who may be torn between old · Democratic allegiances and increasing sympathy with conservative objectives. Following the line appareptly taken by everyone in the Ottinger organization, Prof. Board believes that his candidate's \realy enemy is Buckley.'~ In discounting the chances of incumbent Senator Charles Goodell, Board asserted that the vote of upstate Republicans will go overwhelmingly for James Buckley, in that Buckley is not the typical kind of third party candidate, having been \legitimatized\ . by Nixon and Agnew. Prof. Board stated that on Election Day Ottinger should receive approximately 40 percent of the vote, with Buckley anli Goodell splitting the remainder fairly evenly. Discussion turned to the New York gubernatorial race, which Prof. Board described as \very very close/' In Board's opinion, incumbent Governor Nelson Rockefeller ought to be considered the favorite due to his efficient campaign organization and .his reputation as an effective politician. However, Rocke- feller's - 1 on ge vi t y in office has created an increasing number of enemies who would. like. to have him electorally deposed. Such may be the case, as Prof. Board ·pointed out, in Long Island, where commuters have become exasperated to the point of rebellion because of the FILM HAPS PRESENTS THE LOWER DEPTHS By MAXIM GORKI DiRECTED BY JEAN 'RENOIR One of the Greatest Film Directors of All Time) Starring JEAN GABIN SS016 7:00, 9:00, & 11:00 Wed. Oct. 23, 1970 irregularities of the state ~ run Long Island . Rail Road. In addidon, Rockefeller is sure to lose a substantial number of black and Jewish votes to Arthur Goldber:g and Basil Paterson. Summarizing the situation, B0ard stated that the outcome of the ·election may hinge upon. the turnout, with a larger vote expected to help Democrat Goldberg. Jim Buckley As Symbol, Next Super Senator? Commenting on a local Congressional ra~, Prof, Board predicted that Democrat Samuel Stratton will defeat Republican Daniel Button in what has beep. called a battle of two incumbents. Board beleves · that Stratton can overcome. the district's Republican registration edge by drawing off conservative votes, and that furthermore the great majority of voters judge the candidates on personality style rather tha.n issues. The consensus of political opinion appears to be that Stratton is able to project a dynamic image, · which :Buttoa cannot match. Speaking of general nationwide trends reflected in this campaign period, Prof. Board· contended that the only clear ttend appears to be lack of interest on the part of the electorate. This may be due. he continued, to a pervasive feeling that politics simply does not produce solutions; this opinion is held {>y many within the so - called Silent Majority. Prof. Board regards this as an understandable but unfortunate belief, while this observer tends to blame the apostles of political expediency, like those in New York State who are now insisting that the only way to prevent a right - wing victory in the Senate race is to dump a competent and courageous incumbent. The outing Club rri.eeting will be held on Wednesday, October 28th, in Fox Lounge at 4:30 p.m. ·* * * * I lost some books: Blake, Kierkegaatid, and Weber and a clipboard late Thursday afternoon in front of West. Please return to Bob Schwarzreich 343 S.ummit Ave. 370-1620 * * * * The 1974 Freshman Record still remains the best guide to this year's freshman class. And copies of the 1974 Record are still available. Contact Mrs. Marra in .the student activities office or Randy Sutter in 210 Fox. * * * * There are varying degrees of con~rn with the issues ranging from agreement with repressive capitalism and its corollaries, to non-concern, to spoken concern without a willingness to sacrifice, to different degrees of willingness to sacrifice. I am dealing with those who at least feel concerned - probably most students. Many are now devoting their time and ·efforts to their own situations with hopes of someday being influential in constructive change. At Friday's discussions, concerned people were often pushed to a point of defending what is good in America while few· accepted the revolutionary concept. Others who say that they are . willing to make sacrifices find themselves caught in the middle. They want the change, but do not accept the goals of the extreme tension very difficult to live with. In attempting to deal with the problems these people turn to trying to change lifestyles, the educational system, reforming the political system and escaping the system to form new cultural units. Still, the basic· issues glare through and perhaps a.re sheltered by methods of slow change. Extremists who have accepted the revolutionary outlook reject partial changes as counter-revolutionary. In fact, they are. However, the extreme solutions which solve certain problems cause others. For example, solving t 1e basic physical needs for the n -asses may be possible meeting. Mr. C. G. Davis, in charge of the Picture Phone Department at Bell Telephone Laboratories, will demonstrate the picture phone and will explain how it will fit into the telephone system. TIME: Thursday, November 5, 7:30p.m. . PLACE: SS 115 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy O...r Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Out C~mfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brown•ll Gate on NoH Street The student branch of IEEE cordially invites the entire Stud~nt Community to its third Open Doily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays S P.M. to I A.M. By MIKE MESEROLE The Charles Goodell situation made me take a good hard look Sunday at the people who are leading this country. Saturday night, The Daily News published its first straw poll. It gave James Buckley 37% of the New York vote for Senator, Richard Ottinger 30%, and Charles Goodell 24%. The reaction was swift; the Conservatives clucked with glee, the Democratic camp screamed that a vote for Goodell was really a vote for Buckley, but Goodell, the man whose seat was up for grabs, was silent. On the questi.on of whether he might step aside and help deliver Ottinger, he didn't say 'yes' but he didn't say 'no' either. Sunday night, however, taking over \Lassie's\ CBS time slot in New York City and Rochester, t:he incumbent Senator vowed that he would remain in the race, saying: \I believe very deeply that it would be wrong for me to obeisantly yield to the forces of the right. I am going to do everything I can to fight these forces.\ There can be do doubt that Sen. Goodell is in big trouble, whether the News' poll is accurrate or not (last year the News gave Mayor Lindsay a 2.1% lead over Mario Procca~ino, when it turned out to be only 6.6%). But why? How is it that a man like Charles Goodell can be so irresponsibly dumped from office? Anything is possible in a country where \Spiro is our Hero.\ Goodell has been judged as a ghastly \radical-liberal\ and sentenced to political death by Mr. Agnew, as well as ostrasized from the Republican Party, and denied the support of his President. The reasons are obvious; Vietnam, the ABM, Haynsworth, and Carswell. Th~ junior Senator from New York opposed the President on all four issues. Revenge is now Richard Nixon's. James L. Buckley is the favorite to win the election next Tuesday because Charles Goodell wouldn't vote to confirm two southern judges to the Supreme Court of the land, one of whom was \qualified\ because he was mediocre; because he voted against a costly missile defense system that exactly half of the U.S. Senate wouldn't buy; and because he wanted to get all U.S. troops out of Vietnam by the end of next year.· I have always held the belief that the United States Senate is, or at least should be made up of individuals - men and women who have two feet and stand on them when the time comes. Sen. Goodell is guilty of standing up when he felt he had to, \agreeing with the President when he thought he was right and disagreeing when he felt he was wrong.\ If the voters of New York don't support his positions, that's one thing, but to replace hirri with an avowed \yes\ man is another. Nixon and Agnew have been stumping this country crazy for the last few weeks, calling people names and injecting fear, as opposed to reason, into the electorate in an all-out attempt to elect pro-administration \yes\ men to Congress. The country is edging to the right, and the White House is pressing for the \ideal or \Super Senator;\ the never-doubting; obscure, right of center Senator Dole of Kansas type. Take your pick; Gross in New Jersey, Brock in Tennessee, Cramer in Florida, Bush in Texas, plus incumbents Murphy (Calif.), Fong (Hawaii), and good old Roman Hruska (Neb.) to mention a few. These guys are swell, but inspring national leaders? 1970 voter apathy is not so hard to understand. However, as my sources in the Political Science Ward inform me, New York is the big one. Nixon's boys can lose aU the other races, but if Buckley defeats Goodell in New York, the symbolic significance alone makes the President the big winner. This is one victory I hope the White House doesn't achieve. You Ottinger people, keep Senator Goodell, Senator Goodell. Don't vote to keep the wrong man out, vote to keep the best man in. THE COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS: TOM. WiNSLOW Of the Hudson River Sloop CLEARWATER .A B S 0 L U T E L Y FREE Satu~day Night - Oct. 31st After the Roland Kirk Concert NOtT MEMORIAL THEATRE (Cider, Coffee, and Chaos, as Usual)

PAGE 4 \ CONCORDIENS/S, OCT. 27, 1970 Concordy Sports Offense Shows Signs Of Life As Grid Wins By MARK SHUGOLL The Union football team put on its finest offensive show in weeks on Saturday, but it took a last minute field goal by Sophomore Bobby Mitchell to furnish the Garnet with their fourth win of the season, a 17-14 victory over winless Hobart. The statesmen have not triumphed on their home grounds since the 1968 season. Hobart waited for the third period to do its scoring. Quarterback Bob Raleigh found Don Aleksiewicz open in the end zone and added a two point conversion on an end scamper to make it an 8-7 ball game. Three plays later, Rearic threw his only interception of the afternoon, but it proved costly as Dave Creighton returned it 45 yards for a score. A bad snap from center spoiled the conversion attempt and left the score 14-7. The Garnet evened matters when they produced their first concerted drive, again in weeks. After the Hobart touchdown, Union took the ensuing kickoff and marched 72 yards to paydirt in 11 plays. Rick Jaszczak dove over from the one, and Mitchell again converted to tie up. the ball game. · The Statesmen's deepest p~netration thereafter was to the Union 25 yard line. After surrendering the ball at that that point when a fourth and two situation failed, the Garnet again drove down field paving way for the winning field goal. A key 20 yard effort by Swanko on a third and 16 draw play kept the drive alive at the Hobart 30. When the offen~e finally did run out of gas, Mitchell was there to boot his third three pointer ofthe season. Statistically, Union was most impressive on the ground. The offense rolled for 240 yards via the ground game led by Swanko's 109 yard total and Jaszczak's 104 yards, Again for · the first time in weeks, the Garnet ran more offensive plays than their opponents. The establishment of a com~istent ground game allowed Union to control the tempo of the game. In the air, Rearic accounted for five completions in 15 throws, for a net gain of 117 yards. Kudos are also in order to the entire interior line. The group gave Rearic great protecti<?n and opened up gaping holes all afternoon for the Union backs. Union is now 4-2 with an upcoming run-in with· the Ephmen · of Williams College scheduled as their next encounter .on Saturday. The Dutchmen roughed up the Statesmen defense for 17 first downs and 357 yards in total offense, by far the team's best showing since they jumped on Worcester Tech for 37 points in their season opener. However, it was Mitchell's heroics that sealed the win and sent a Hobart Parents Day crowd home unhappy. With the score tied 14- 14, Mitchell connected on a 23- yard field goal effort, with only I :41 showing on the clock. Hooters Bombard Rochester Goal But Bow The two teams battled through a scoreless first period. The biggest scoring t~hreat of the first fifteen minutes came when Hobart marched to the Union four yard line, before the heralded Garnet defense toughened and took over on a fimble recovery. Union jumped out to a 7-0 lead on the first play of the second period when starting quarterback Dave Rearic collaborated with back John Swanko on a \71 yard pass and run play. Mitchell then added the conversion. The touchdown pass was the first credited to the Union aerial game in five contests, the last coming in the season opening win. Harriers Now 4-3 After Split By PROUX HAMLIN ' The vicissitudes of life might well be reflected in the cverchanging fortunes of the Garnet cross-country team. On Saturday. the Dutchmen placed only four of their l']'len in the top ten positions. losing to Hamilton 23-~5. Yesterday. though, the mercurial harriers rebounded to shellac Siena 15-50, Union runners garnering ten of the first eleven spots. Rob Nesbitt, Tim McCabe, and Bryant Moeckel were again the big three for Union. Frosh Nesbitt, third place finisher against the Continentals. cut loose for a new course record in the Siena meet. shattering the old mark by 26 seconds. Finishing behind Nesbitt in both meets were McCabe and Moeckel. McCabe. a stand-out in track for the Garnet last spring. also bettered the course record against Siena~ finishing 24 seconds in back of number one runner Nesbitt. McCabe incidentally, placed sixth versus Hamilton. with team-mate Moeckel finishing fourth. Ed Wagner, Paul Forbes. and John Braham also contributed to the Union victory. Wagner copped the fourth and fifth rum1ers. In the Hamilton meet. for instance, a time lag of over a minute and one half separated the first five harriers. In the lop- sided Siena contest. however. only 51 seconds elapsed between the record-setting first runner and the fifth Union finisher. The Garnet, who stand 4-3 on the year, close out their dual meet season this Wednesday with a contest against Oneonta. By GEORGE RAIN Perhaps not even Pele could put the ball into the opponent's nets for Union College. For the fourth straight game, the offense (ailed to produce and the Garnet fell to Rochester and a happy, if not fortunate, former Coach Gary Brown, 3-0. Again, Union outshot its opponents, this time by by an amazing 59-ll count, and outplayed the Yellowjacket · visitors for three quarters of the game. The scoreboard read 0•0 at the half, but Union tired in the second ,half with Rochester taking advantage of the breaks, three times catching the Gamet defense upfield a~d scoring. Halfway through the third quarter, Rochester's Jay Glick took a pass from Dan Parker, split the Garnet defense, walked in on netminder Miker Pitt, and beat him with a low shot to the left corner. The inspired Yellowjackets pressed on and again caught the Dutchmen defense at midfield with a minute gone in the fourth quarter. Greg Norris broke downfield and ,converted a pass from Marc Faust to open up a 2- 0lead. Craig Barger then replaced Pitt in the Union nets and yielded the third goal to the Yellow and Blue. Faust headed the ball into the nets after a scramble in front, with Barger #.down and out of position. The freshman forward from Rochester has now scored 8 goals in9 games. The disappointing Dutchmen had come out flying, outplaying and outshooting Rochester, especially in the first quat:ter. The officials called all the penalties on the visitors and gave the majority of the corner kicks to Union. Half a dozen times did the Garnet hit the post or see the ball trickle past the post after eluding Rochester goaltender AI Hirsch. Union tired visibly in the second half, aowever, and Lady Luck smiled upon the Yellowjackets at least· three times. The win Upped Rochester's record to 6-3. . ~n unidentified Garnet f~rwar~ blasts a sh~t 'J!ze Dutchmen, in losing the third gqme in to» ards t?e Rochester net m Saturdays thelr last four starts, unleashed .an heartbreakmg 3-0 loss to the Yellowjackets, as unbelievable 59 shots on goal as compared to The Dutchmen took a 2-3-1 reGord to Hamilton, N.Y., today to play Colgate, l.;() victims of Rochester. \The next game on ~ley Field is Saturday, against Mtddlebuty. linematr Art Fraser looks on. 11 for the Ye/lowjackets. . Vi~ing Field Goal Sails Wide In Last Seconds As Frosh Football Deadlocks Tough HVCC .·. By JAY HOBART Hudson Valley Community College star Andy Di Santi muffed a 16-yard field goal attempt with five seconds remaining. enabling the Union freshman football team to gain a 13-13 tie last Friday at Troy. The Garnet yearlings stunned the Vikings early when halfback Bruce Mathias took the opening kickoff and scampered 100 yards for the score. AI J\lbano missed the extra point attempt. On the next series of plays. Viking quarterback George Patrick directed a drive from his own 30-yard line to the Union five in eight plays. Then DiSanti. a 5'1 I\ 185 lb. halfback, carried the ball off left tackle into the end zone. He failed to make the conversion. The Dutchman could nof get their offense going on the soggy field but the defense continued to be tough. A lapse in the Union • secondary however, allowed the Vikings to complete a 40 yard pass to the Garnet 15. Patrick then fired a pass to wide receiver Ed Harvey for an apparent TD, but Hudson Vall~y was guilty of a clipping infraction which brought the ball back to the Union 17. Three plays later DiSanti took it over from the one and this time he was successful on the point after. Union finally got its attack going in the fourth quarter, when substitute quarterback Gary Lauver engineered a touchdown drive that was highlighted by several key third-down plays. With fourth down at the Union 49 yard line. the Garent were forced to give up the football when punter Peter Perry. was hit by a Viking lineman after he had kicked the ball. The costly infraction gave Union a first down at the Hudson Valley 36. ' During the next series on third down, halfback Rod Jones VI Santi's toe which had 'missed appeared to be caught short of a _ only three of 16 points after. His first down. Not to be denied, he ~ttempt was shanked to the right, broke the tackle with a JUSt clearing the onrushing tremendous effort and got the lineman. extra five yards needed for the The Garnet yearlings' record is first. now even at 1-1-1. They will try On the next third down play to meve over the .500 mark when Lauver threw a pass on which they once again journey to Troy Mathias made a diving Friday to take on the Engineers shoestring catch. Following from ~.P.I. Mathias' grab Lauver lofted one to Bob Alexander who was wide open in the end zone. Albano's . successful conversion attempt . knotted the score at 13-13. Following the Garnet TD Hudson Valley had time for one more drive, which took the Vikings to the UnJon one~yard lin~ with the help of a personal foul charged against the Dutchmen. On fourth down with only five seconds remaining. Viking Coach Joe Purello elected to try for the field goal, putting his faith in FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y FR 7·0510 FOUNTAIN SUVlct One block from Brownell Gate ·~· ... - In d• le ta m a! tt 3.1 d: o: n: 'I a n tl n t: 1 II a ..() J

PAGE 4 I CONCORD/ENSIS, OCT. 27, 1970 Concordy Sports Offense Shows Signs Of Life As Grid Wins By MARK SHUGOLL the winning field goal. The UnioR football team put on its finest offensive show in weeks on Saturday, but it took a last minute field goal by Sophomore Bobby Mitchell to furnish the Garnet with their fourth win of the season, a 17-14 victory over wiHless Hobart. The statesmen have not triumphed on their home grounds since the 1968 season. Hobart waited for the third period to do its scoring. Quarterback Bob Raleigh found Don Aleksiewicz open in the end zone aHd added a two point conversion on an end scamper to make it an 8-7 ball game. Three plays later, Rearic threw his only interception of the afternoon, but it proved costly as Dave Creighton returned it 45 yards for a score. A bad snap from center spoiled the conversion attempt and left the score 14-7. when they procluced their first concerted drive, again in weeks. After tae Hobart touchdown, Union took the ensuing kickoff and marched 72 yards to paydirt in 11 plays. Rick Jaszczak dove over from the one, and Mitchell again converted to tie up the ball game. A key 20 yard effort by Swanko on a third and 1 e draw play kept the drive alive at the Hobart 30. When the offense finally did run out of gas, Mitchell was there to boot his third three pointer of the seasoa. establishment ·Of a consistent ground game allowed Union to control the tempo of the game. In the air, Rearic accounted for five completions in 15 throws, for a net gain of 117 yards. Kudos are also in order to the entire iNterior line. The group gave Rea·ric great protection and opened up gaping holes all afternoon for the Union backs. The DutchmeH roughed up the Statesmen defense for 17 first downs and 357 yards in total offense, by far the team's best showing since they jumped on Worcester Tech for 37 points in their season opener. However, it was Mitchell's heroics that sealed the win and sent a Hobart Parents Day crowd home unhappy. With the score tied 14- 14, MitcheJ,l connected on a 23- yard field goal effort, with only 1 :41 showing on the clock. The Garnet evened matters The Statesmen's deepest penetration thereafter was to the Union 25 yard line. After surrendering the ball at that that point when a fourth and two situation failed, the Garnet again drove down field paving way for Statistically, Union was most impressive on the ground. The offense rolled for 240 yards via the ground game led by Swanko's 109 yard total and Jaszczak's 104 yards. Again for the first time in weeks, the Garnet ran more offensive plays than their opponents. The Union is now 4-2 with an upcoming run-in with the Ephmen of Williams College scheduled as theiT next encounter on Saturday. The two teams battled through a scoreless first period. The biggest scoring threat of the first fifteen minutes came when Hohart marched to the Union four yard line, hefore the heralded Garnet defense toughened and took over on a fimhle recovery. Union jumped out to a 7-0 lead on the first play of the :;ccond period when starting quarterback Dave Rearic collahoratcd with hack John Swanko on a .71 yard pass and run play. Mitchell then added the conversion. The touchdown pass was the first credited to the Union aerial game in five contests. the last coming in the season opening win. Harriers Now 4-3 After Split By PROUX HAMLIN The vicissitudes of life might well he reflected In the everchanging fortunes of the Ciarnet cross-country team. On Saturday. the Dutchmen placed only four of their men in the top ten positions. losing to Hamilton 2J-~5. Yesterday. though. the mercurial harriers rebounded to shellac Siena 15-50. Union runners garnering ten of the first eleven spots. Boh Nesbitt. Tim McCabe. and Bryant Moeckel were again the hig three for Union. Frosh Nesbitt. third place finisher against the Continentals. cut loose for a new course record in the Siena meet. shattering the old mark hy 26 seconds. Finishing hehind Nesbitt in both meets were McCabe and Moeckel. McC'a he. a stand-out in track for the Garnet last spring. also bettered the course record against Siena. finishing 24 seconds in back of number one runner Neshitt. McCahe incidentally. placed sixth \ersus Hamilton. with team-mate Moeckel finishing fourth. Fd Wagner. Paul Forbes. and .John Braham also contrihuted to the Union victory. Wagner copped the fourth and fifth runners. In the Hamilton meet. for instance. a time lag of over a minute and one half separated the first five harriers. In the lop- sided Siena contest. however. only 5 I seconds elapsed between the record-setting first runner and the fifth Union finisher. The Garnet. who stand 4-~ on the year, close out their dual meet season this Wednesdav with a contest against Oneonta · Booters Bombard Rochester Goal But Bow By GEORGE BAIN Perhaps not even Pele could put the baH into the opponent's nets for Union College. For the fourth straight game, the offense failed to prod11ce and the Garnet fell to Rochester and a happy, if not fortunate, former Coach Gary Brown, 3-0. Again, Union outshot its opponents, this time by by an amazing 59-I! count, and outplayed the Yellowjacket visitors for three quarters of the game. The scoreboard read 0-0 at the half, but Union tired in the second ,half with Rochester taking advantage of the breaks, three times catching tlle Garnet defense upfield and scoring. Halfway through the third quarter, Rochester's Jay Glick took a pass from Dan Parker, split the Garnet defense, walked in on netminder Mike Pitt, and beat him with a low shot to the left corner. An unidentified Garnet forward blasts a shot towards the Rochf!ster net in Saturday's heartbreaking 3-0 loss to the Yellmtjackets, as linemate Art Fraser looks on. The Dutchmen, in losing the third game in their last four starts, unleashed an unbelievable 59 shots on goal as compared to I I for the Ye/lowjackets. ' The inspired Yellowjackets pressed on and again caught the Dutchmen defense at midfield with a minute gone in the fourth quarter. Greg Norris broke downfield and converted a pass from Marc Faust to open up a 2- 0 lead. Craig Barger then replaced Pitt in the Union nets and yielded the third goal to the Yellow and Blue. Faust headed the ball into the nets after a scramble in front, with Barger , down and out of position. The freshman forward from Rochester has now scored 8 goals in 9 games. The disappointing Dutchmen had come out flying, outplaying and outshooting Rochester, especially in the first quarter. The officials called all the penalties on the visitors and gave the majority of the corner kicks to Union. Half a dozen times did the Garnet hit the post or see the ball trickle past the post after eluding Rochester goaltender AI Hirsch. Union tired visibly in the second half, however, and Lady Luck smiled upon the Yellowjackets at least· three times. The win upped Rochester's record to 6-3. The Dutchmen took a 2-3-1 record to Hamilton, N.Y., today to play Colgate, 1-0 victims of Rochester. ·The next game on D~iey Field is Saturday, against Mtddlebury. Vi~ing Field Goal Sails Wide In Last Seconds As Frosh Football Deadlocks Tough HVCC By JAY HOBART Hudson Valley Community College star Andy Di Santi muffed a 16-yard field goal attempt with five seconds remaining. enabling the Union freshman football team to gain a 13-13 tie last Friday at Troy. The Garnet yearlings stunned the Vikings early when halfback Bruce Mathias took the opening kickoff and scampered 100 yards for the score. AI Albano missed the extra point attempt. On the next series of plays. Viking quarterback George Patrick directed a drive from his own 30-yard line to the Union five in eight plays. Then DiSanti. a 5' I I\ 185 lb. halfback. carried the hall off left tackle into the end 7one. He failed to make the conversion. The Dutchman could not get their offense going on the soggy field hut the defense continued to he tough. A lapse in the Union secondary however, allowed the Vikings to complete a 40 yard pass to the Garnet 15. Patrick then fired a pass to wide receiver Ed Harvey for an apparent TD. but Hudson Vall~y was guilty of a clipping infraction which brought the ball back to the Union 17. Three plays later DiSanti took it over from the one and this time he was successful on the point after. Union finally got its attack going in the fourth quarter. when substitute quarterback Gary Lauver engineered a touchdown drive that was highlighted by several key third-down plays. With fourth down at the Union 49 yard line. the Garent were forced to give up the football when punter Peter Perry. was hit by a Viking lineman after he had kicked the ball. The costlv infraction gave Union a first down at the Hudson Valley 36. ' During the next series on third down, halfback Rod Jones appeared to be caught short of a first down. Not to be denied, he broke the tackle with a tremendous effort and got the extra five yards needed for the first. On the next third down play Lauver threw a pass on which Mathias made a diving shoestring catch. Following Mathias' grab Lauver lofted one to Bob Alexander who was wide open in the end zone. Albano's successful conversion attempt knotted the score at 13-13. Following the Garnet TO Hudson Valley had time for one more drive. which took the Vikings to the Union one-yard line with the help of a personal foul charged against the Dutchmen. On fourth down with only fi\'e seconds remaining. Viking Coach Joe Purello elected to trv for the field goal. putting his ·faith in u1 Santi's toe which had missed only three of 16 points after. His attempt was shanked to the right, just clearing the onrushing lineman. The Garnet yearlings' record is now even at 1-l-1. They will try to move over the .500 mark when they once again journey to Troy Friday to take on the Engineers from R.P.I. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y FR 7-0SJO fOUNTAIN SERVICE One block frc.m Brownell Gato .•. .. Ir d lE n a

- IS stent n to :. nted ows, trds. the roup and all ;. an the liege nter ~ts he ~ld th ke LSS 2- 'itt ed nd !tO nt, of rd 8 ~n lg r, te es te :o te Jl tg 1. d k lt d -1 Ly )f Ill st d is t, g s y 1 v s ... Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 30, 1970 PR~CI;: TWENTY CENTS Vietnamization Spokesman Met By Guerrilla Theatre DOLPH DRODGE (PHOTO BY STEVE ENTE). \\ By PETER BJC~RMAN NiXon Administration SPQkes- man De>lff Prodge told a con- vocation :;tudience Tuesday that •We've made many mistakes in Vietnam,\ but he further asserted that tne present \Vietnam1zation\ policy will enable the United States to successfully withdraw from Vietnam. Mr. Drodge, who w~ intro- duced by Don Kessler, emphas- ized the complex an(!} unique nature of the Vietnamese con- flict, calling it much uiilike any war in whic:\1. the United States has been irivolved. Several times he described the war as a three dimensional affair concerning the u.s., Nortl1 Vietnam, and South Vietnam. Saying that his mission was to talk \behind the headlines,\ Drodge launched into a lengthy historical analysis, apparently to illustrate the view that Viet- nam has suffered through in- SRO F M . d't . t'O Meetl'n· g numberable interregional con- . · . ·.· .. ·· · o, . r, · . e 1· a 1 n .· . _. · . flicts in addition to the struggles against Chinese and French im- Sy GAIL GOODMAN reservoir that helps to d&velop Transcendental Meditation perialism: Evidently,thespeaker · one to his full potential. When the helps society, because by reliev~ Was attemptiJlg to encourage the Five members <lf the Students t h. r e e fields of 11·#e a· c t i v ity - belief that Vietnam has never, · · · Ji ' · · · ' ing one's own stresses, the indi- International Meditation Society, th;.nking and the field of beingr vidual dissolves some of the for all practical purposes, been deliverin.g an in.troductory are m· tegrated one approaches a unified nation with a common · · · · barriers betweE!n yourself and lecture on Transcendental Medi- full potent1'al national identity. · ' other people. Meditation helps the tatwn, Tuesday night explained T ran s c end en t a 1 medita According to Dredge, Viet- d't ti t ht b M h . . . - person to perceive and under- namese have traditionally re- me 1 a on, as aug . y a .. tion, however, is not intellectual: stand more of what is going on ariShi Mahesh Yogi. it is a sur:fllce exercise :follow- inside and outside of himself. garded their basic governmental Transcendental M .. e d it at i on, · na thought imp\''ses to their unit as being on the village level, 1 \' · \\ Love, joy and giving become not directly state the case for u.s. intervention, but instead asserted that if Amerrcan ground forces had not been introduced into the war in 1964 the North- ern--trained South Vietnamese Communists woald have surely overthrown the Southern govern- ment and seized power. However, Drodge seemed to imply that active American in- volvement was caused by the entry of North Vietnamese regu- lar troops into the South several weeks previously. He stated that the U.s. government had in the past been over-optimistic re- garding Vietnam, due to the fact that the guerrillas regarded the American advisors as an \irrelevant element\ in the con- flict, and avoided attacking them. Drodge, whose official title is information Speciali~t of the A g e n c y f o r International Development, now working for the White House, was heckled during l1is tall~ by a handful of people they said, is a unique technique beginnings. It is, according to spontaneous. The individUal re- where self-rW.e has been the and one which is fundamentally· M ,n .. · hi a lldl'vm· g withm' \ to historical norm. He asserted in the audience. Howe. ver, these a._..ls ' · · ceives an inner fullness that helps different from all other forms the m· 0 s t o:~atis.,.•ing levels of that the majority of Vietnamese, people did not succeed in in- . · {' · .. :~· · him to get more out of his of meditation. While all other thQught. Meditation when done to th following the Taoist philosophy terrupting Drodge (if that was meditations a,re concentrations, correctly allows· one to transcend life thus ~iving mo:e . ose of life, p:~;eferred to withdraw their intention) 1 for they were Transcendental Meditation oper- • · .... · i · d 1e aro1md . hliil· Medltatlon . can :from nnlitical turmoil in search. shouted down by many others. awareneS&>~o-pwe .... e ng.an 'c ar ·rur\t1ier·worli:l 'Peaee·by·giVing · · · .. ·- .11:;.-..~ •. ~. '---·-···: ~·- ·· · • ··· ates on thenaturaltendencyofthe action, thus developing the indi- one inner peac~. While each of personal tranquility: Thus, The question period· at the con- mind to go to greater depths of vidual to his maximum patential person is suffering individually most of the people remamed un- elusion of the speech was marked the conscious and unconscious. for action. inside, there cannot be World involved in national politics un- by a brief display cf •guerrilla The student$ discussed the P:hysieally, meditation leaves Peace. However as soon as one til very recently; this trend theatre,\ in which the Agencyfor needs that this type of medita~ · · · r st d than· a .... .,1 n· ight ' has supposedly been reversed by International Development was you more e. e .1w • discovers the wells of his inner tion filled,. and .claSsified them. · of sleep. Thi· s 15 •. . ·because the · the advent of Vietnamization. accused of being a CIA :front Mlness and achieves innerpeace They spoke about tne effects of different states o:fmentalactivity Drodge spent the great organization. medl 'tation on· th\' .mind as well he can begin to spread peace. . 'ty f h. t Mr D d . d. \' . regulate the di'fferent states of Meditation is harmonious with maJo:tl o lS. ime giving an • ro ge rece1ve a warm as its physical ef:fec~, impact the nervous system. The deeper . hi extr.emely detailed account of ovation at the end of his speech, ..en thesocialenvironmentandim- all life styles, it is nourts ng t d b t 't d that :ll the mind goes, the more relaxed to individual life and makes one ac ions an reactions throughout u 1 appeare . · very ew plications fol' world peace. the body becomes; in .f i ft e en aware of his source of being. southeast Asia, attempting to minds were changed by his argu- Mentally, weare sur-rounded by minutes of meditation the meta- provide \The Vietnamese Per- ments. strain, stress, anxiety and ten- bolic rate drops 20%, lower than . spective.\' Consequently, he did sion. Meditation by bringing out ft 1 ht f d 1 M di Th R d D B h 0 1 our inner potential and energies, :at~:na ~ ga ~iq::ps~~:p~f ;es~ . · . e . ever en ·. . ··· ·OR at.c· . u· m. . ut ·1·nes· relieves us of these strains. It that might be termed •restful · · · - trys to improve our actions, by alertness\ for while the body is .N :. Ch • t• ·R • I M t ::::~::~g::!~~=c~:: :i::t.~!:x::st:Ue~:U~.t~e:: . 8W . · artsma IC ·. 8VIV8 . OVemen Meditation .takes one to the source of thinking, the pure conscious- ness that is deep within the mind. This ts thf! field of being of the person, it is a limitless helps to re~ve the stresses on the nervous systemf thus increasing energy and helJ)ing to . maintafii good health. Last night, the Newman Club sponsored a talk on charismatic revival bY the Reverend Don Batchum in Memorial Cha:pel. BatehUlll is a proponent of POW Conditions In North Vietnam Described. By Information Officer By MICHAEL GOLER In a meeting yesterday evening, . Lt. Colonel James Jones, U.S.A.F. and Mr. George Brooks spoke to concerned students of Union College and members of the Schenectady community concerning the situation of priSoners .. of-war in North Vietnam. Colonel Jones, an information officer tor the Air Force now stationed at the Pentagon who served in South Vietnam in 1968, is also projects officer for the POW's Missing In Action operation. This project has been trying to accompUsh the release o:f all sick and wounded prisoners, the establlilhment of a free flow of mail to and from the prisoners, regular ·inspection of prisoner-of- war camps by an agency such as the Red Cross, and the release of a complete and continually up .. dated list of all prisoners either dead or aliv.e. These conditions are in accord· with the Geneva Convention in' regard to prisoners-of-will', and. all countries involved in the Southeast Asia fighting are seated on the Convention. Jones also de:scdbed the situation of the ·poW camps 1ri :r;(ortll Vietnam, according to the nJ.ne '·· soldiers who have been released since 196'7. The day of a prisoner cQnSlsts of two . propaganda broadcasts daily, two meals of swill; and slUing around in the tiny 6xl0 foot cell. Wben one con- siders that many of thes.e soldiers have been prisoners fo.r six years, one can begin to realize the sort of hell ~Y must be going through constanUy. Mt. George Brooks parent of a soldier missing in action, is one of many parents and citizens working for the acceptance bY North Vietnam of the prisoner-of-war conditions of the Geneva Con- vention. He spoke about the program supported by Mr. Ross Perot of Houston, Texas: \Un~ted We Stand Dedicated to the Release of Prisoners.\ The plea he gave vias .for everyone to write letters to Hanoi asking for the establishment of the four conditions of the Geneva Convention concerning the treatment of prisoners-of-war. \It will take an avalanche of mail to accomplish our eni:i, 11 he said, but for . parent$. Who are unable to contact their sons, it seems worth it. the Charismatic Revival Move- ment and a follower of Pente- cost which is the reception of the Holy Spirit and the revival of the Church of Jesus Christ. Revival springs from the re- covery of lost truths. In the past, revivalS :revolved around two things: a charismatic, central figure and a certaingeographical location. Today, revival defies both of these concepts. Today's world is :fUll of problems that cannot be solved by men alone. It seems to many people, that the world is headed for some great disaster. Batchum compares our situation to that of Moses and his Children when they faced the Red Sea with their foes upon them. The Baptism of the Holy Spirit helps give spiritual harmony of all people. It is a type of miracle which some find hard to accept in this day and age, but thrqugh it, God is working to restore the full power Of the Holy Spirit to tt, Ba.tehum said. au is dod•s will,\ be added, 11 and we should help implement it.\ Twentieth Century Pentecost is world-wide. It is an individual movement unaffected bY one's church affiliation. The Roman Catholic Church stresses structure as its main tradition; the Protestant Church places emphasis on the message of the gospel. However, the Pentecostal· branch of Christi- anity is a relatively new branch which stresses the fact that where the Holy Sprit is present with power, there is the church. Mem- bers of this branch have generally found this philosqphy to be acceptable to both Catholics and Protestants. According to Rev. Batehum, we are not practicing normal chti:stianity as written intheNew Testament. However, he asserted that God is now workii~g to restore the traditions of true christianity and the center of the move is the spiritual Baptism. Inher~nt in the Pentecostal Doctrine are two forms of Bap- tism, as outlined by Batchum. The first is Baptism which makes a christian out of anon-christian and the second is Baptism of the holy sprit which makes Christ- ians stronger. The Reverend concluded his talk with a question and answer period, While the talk was supple- mented by a choir of two women.

- IS lstent tn to e. mted rows, ards. ' the ;roup . and all s. t an the tllege Jnter :ets the eld rth tke ass 2- 1 itt led end 1to lnt, of rd .8 en ng !f' he .es he to he lll !1g h. ld ;k at !d 1-1 ay of )ll lSt !d is lt, tg IS ·y n y ·s - \' Founded at Union College 1877 VOLUl'tlE 100, NUMBER 10 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK OCTOBER 30, 1970 PR~CE TWENTY CENTS Vietnamization Spokesman Met By Guerrilla Theatre By PETER BICKERMAN Nixon Administration spokes- man Dolff Drodge told a con· vocation audience Tuesday that \We've made many mistakes in Vietnam,\ but he further asserted that the present uvietnamization\ policy will enable the United States to successfully withdraw from Vietnam, DOLPH DRODGE Mr, Drodge, who was intro- duced by Don Kessler, emphas- ized the complex and unique (PHOTO BY STEVE ENTEl SRO For Meditation Meeting Ry GAIL GOODMAN reservoir that helps to develop Transcendental Me d it at i o n helps society, because by reliev~ ing one's own stresses, the indi- vidual dissolves some of the barriers between yourself and other people. Meditation helps the person to perceive and under- stand more of what is going on inside and outside of himself. Love, joy and giving become spontaneous. The individual re- ceives an inner fullness that helps him to get more out of his life thus giving more to those around him. Meditation can further World Peace by giving one inner peace. While each person is suffering individually inside, there cannot be World one to his full potential. When the Five members of the Students three fieldsoflife, activity, International Meditation Society, delivering an introductory lecture on Transcendental Medi- tation, Tuesday night explained meditation, as taught by Mah- arishi Mahesh Yogi. Transcendental Meditation, they said, is a unique technique and one which is fundamentally different from all other forms of meditation. While all other meditations are concentrations, Transcendental Meditation oper- ates on the natural tendency of the mind to go to greater depths of the conscious and unconscious. The students discussed the needs that this type of medita- tion filled, and classified them, They spoke about the effects of meditation on the mind as well as its physical effects, impact on the social environment and im- plications for world peace. thinking and the field of being 1 are integrated one approaches full potential. T r an s c e n d e n t a 1 medita- tion, however, is not intellectual: it is a surface exercise follow- ing thought impulses to their beginnings. It is, according to Maharishi, a \diving within\ to the m o s t l)atisfying levels of thought, Meditation when done correctly allows one to transcend awareness to pure being and clear action, thus developing the indi- vidual to his maximum potential for action. Physically' meditation leaves Peace However as soon as one you more rested than a full night . discov~rs the w~lls of his inner of sleep. This is because the fullness and achieves inner peace different states of mental activity he can begin to spread peace. · regulate the different states of Meditation is harmonious with the nervous system. The deeper all life styles, it is nourishing the mind goes, the more relaxed to individual life and makes one the body becomesj in fifteen aware of his source of being. minutes of meditation the meta- nature of the Vietnamese con- flict, calling it much unlike any war in which the United States has been involved, Several times he described the war as a three dimensional affair concerning the u.s., North Vietnam, and South Vietnam. Saying that his mission was to talk \behind the headlines,\ Drodge launched into a lengthy historical analysis, apparently to illustrate the view that Viet- nam has suffered through in- numberable interregional con- flicts in addition to the struggles against Ch1nese and French im- perialism. Evidently, the speaker was attempting to encourage the · belief that Vietnam has never, for all practical purposes, been a unified nation with a common national identity. According to Dredge, Viet- namese have traditionally re- garded their basic governmental unit as being on the village level, where self~rule has been the historical norm. He asserted that the majority of Vietnamese, following the Taoist philosophy of life, preferred to withdraw from political turmoil in search of personal tranquility. Thus, most of the people remained un- involved in national politics un- til very recently; this trend has supposedly been reversed by the advent of Vietnamization, Drodge spent the g r e at majority of his time giving an extremely detailed account of actions and reactions throughout Southeast Asia, attempting to provide \The Vietnamese Per- spective.,. Consequently, he did not directly state the case for U.s. intervention, but instead asserted that if Amerrcan ground forces had not been introduced into the war in 1964 the North- ern-trained South Vietnamese Communists would have surely overthrown the Southern govern- ment and seized power. However, Dredge seemed to imply that active American in- volvement was caused by the entry of North Vietnamese regu- lar troops into the South several weeks previously. He stated that the u.s. government had in the past been over-optimistic re- garding Vietnam, due to the fact that the guerrillas regarded the American advisors as an \irrelevant element\ in the con- flict, and avoided attacking them, Drodge, whose official title is information Specialist of the Age n c y f o r International Development, now working for the White House, was heckled during his talk by a handful of people in the audience, However, these people did not succeed in in- terrupting Drodge (if that was their intention), for they were shouted down by many others. The question period at the con- elusion of the speech was marked by a brief display ef \guerrilla theatre,\ in which the Agency for International Development was accused of being a CIA front organization. Mr, Drodge received a warm ovation at the end of his speech, but it appeared that very few minds were changed by his argu- ments. Mentally, we are sur-rounded by strain, stress, anxiety and ten- sion. Meditation by bringing out our inner potential and energies, relieves us of these strains. It trys to improve our actions, by getting to the root of all human action: thinlting-the brain center, Meditation takes one to the source of thinking, the pure conscious- ness that is deep within the mind. This is the field of being of the person, it is a limitless bolic rate drops 20%, lower than after a night of deep sleep, Medi- tation is a unique state of rest that might be termed 111 restful alertness\ for while the body is very relaxed the mind is fully alert. The restfulness ofthe body helps to relieve the stresses on the n e r v o us s y s tern, t h u s increasing energy and helping to maintain good health, The Reverend Don Batchum Outlines New Charismatic Revival Movement Last night, the Newman Club sponsored a talk on charismatic revival bY the Reverend Don Batchum in Memorial Chapel. Batchum is a proponent of POW Conditions In North Vietnam Described By Information Officer By MICHAEL GOLER In a meeting yesterday evening, Lt. Colonel James Jones, U.S.A.F. and Mr. George Brooks spoke to concerned students of Union College and members of the Schenectady community concerning the situation of prisoners-of-war in North Vietnam. Colonel Jones, an information officer for the Air Force now stationed at the Pentagon who served in South Vietnam in 1968, is also projects officer for the POW's Missing In Action operation. This project has been trying to accomplish the release of all sick and wounded prisoners, the establishment of a free flow of mail to and from the prisoners, regular inspection of prisoner-of- war camps by an agency such as the Red Cross, and the release of a complete and continually up-dated list of all prisoners either dead or alive. These conditions are in accord with the Geneva Convention in regard to prisoners-of-war, and all countries involved in the Southeast Asia fighting are seated on the Convention, Jones also described the situation of the POW camps in North Vietnam, according to the nine soldiers who have been released since 1967. The day of a prisoner consists of two. propaganda broadcasts daily, two meals of swill, and sitting around in the tiny 6x10 foot cell. When one con- siders that many of these soldiers have been prisoners for six years, one can begin to realize the sort of hell they must be going through constantly. Mr, George Brooks parent of a soldier missing in action, is one of many parents and citizens working for the acceptance by North Vietnam of the prisoner-of-war conditions of the Geneva Con- vention. He spoke about the program supported by Mr. Ross Perot of Houston, Texas: \United We Stand Dedicated to the Release of Prisoners.\ The plea he gave was for everyone to write letters to Hanoi asking for the establishment of the four conditions of the Geneva Convention concerning the treatment of prisoners-of-war. \It will take an avalanche of mail to accomplish our end,\ he said, but for parents who are unable to contact their sons, it seems worth it. the Charismatic Revival Move- ment and a follower of Pente- cost which is the reception of the Holy Spirit and the revival of the Church of Jesus Christ. Revival springs from the re- covery of lost truths. In the past, revivals revolved around two things: a charismatic, central figure and a certaingeographical location. Today, revival defies both of these concepts. Today's world is full of problems that cannot be solved by men alone. It seems to many people, that the world is headed for some great disaster. Batchum compares our situation to that of Moses and his Children when they faced the Red Sea with their foes upon them. The Baptism of the Holy Spirit helps give spiritual harmony of all people. It is a type of miracle which some find hard to accept in this day and age, but through it, God is working to restore the full power of the Holy Spirit to it, Batchum said. \lt is dod's will,\ he added, \and we should help implement it.\ Twentieth Century Pentecost is world~wide. It is an individual movement unaffected by one's church affiliation, The Roman Catholic Church stresses structure as its main tradition; the Protestant Church places emphasis on the message of the gospel. However, the Pentecostal branch of Christi- anity is a relatively new branch which stresses the fact that where the Holy Sprit is present with power, there is the church. Mem- bers of this branch have generally found this philosophy to be acceptable to both Catholics and Protestants, According to Rev. Batchum, we are not practicing normal christianity as written in the New Testament. However, he asserted that God is now working to restore the traditions of true christianity and the center of the move is the spiritual Baptism. Inherent in the Pentecostal Doctrine are two forms of Bap- tism, as outlined by Batchum. The first is Baptism which makes a christian out of a non-christian and the second is Baptism of the holy sprit which makes Christ- ians stronger. The Reverend concluded his talk with a question and answer period, while the talk was supple- mented by a choir of two women.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS; OCT. 30 1 1970 Confrontation or Crisis . Last Monday President Martin outlined his views of a college as being apoliti«;:al so that it may remain a haven for debate, reflection, and action aimed at enlightening the outside community. We agree with ~is attitude but emphasize tnat this does not mean condoning complacency or apathy• It simplY means that Union, as all schools, should be a place where persons can discuss things freely and openly, With no fear of being shouted down~ whatever their ideas. We have enough faith in the student body to believe that they will not be swayed by someone shouting revolution unless he can at least back it up with a conceptual framework. The disruptit>n of Mr. Drodge 1 .s presentation last Tuesday was contrary to wnat we feel is productive discourse, but not nearly so contrary as President Martin's nervous mother hen act would indicate. The diSruption came at a time when questions and opinions were being taken from .the floor, and was, unquestionab~y, a presentation of opinion. The only infraction was one oHack ofpolitimesstothe speaker. If the \actors 11 had merely waited to be recognized and then gone aheac:I, there would have been equal impact, and no alienation of the administration or the students would have taken place. But for the adminis- tration to treat the participants as if they }).ave committed a capital crime· is as ridiculous as the hecklers thinking that booing is the equivalent of a p pl au s e in this .situation (the British House of Commons not withstanding)• We must empbazize again that we endorse fully anyone's right to make himself beard in any way which does not impinge upon the rights of others. in a situation such as a convocation this entails confrontation With whomever it is you disagree, but in a manner which will not cause you to be thrown out ' ' arrested (unless this is your goal), or alienate your audience. We don't think that the participants in the guerrilla theatre committed any offei)Se worthy of any greater punishment than a course in American confrontation, If the goal of the \actors\ was not confrontation and statement of opinion, but ollly disruption in the hope of arousing the audience, or if Mr. Drodge or Dr. Martin would not have allowed the theatre to take place, then whichever party would deny the right of confrontation and reputta.J. to the other is surely to. be counted among the \fascists\· and/or \commt.inists\ everyone is so loudly decrying. :\'otiOs.DIJ¥ 1 ~~o~- ,_.--------.:::S.;;.;..-.·&q_,..---------+ ''IT nttr.nr 17 l:~:ft 95 llinnl%t. 11 w na·~-:.t.~'l'!:J &; ~ ;J M II &Utor William 0uar· Nns'Edltar Louis S. SaitkoR' .... , .......... . Uo,d Binll Alii. News Eear ~Bickerman . ....._.MY. Mar. Neil ORICill ~ . ./tL~~ .~\>cr~ ~ · .. , _ F.._I'Mior O.aieiSchochel ......... , .. JodySUiow ... ,... ........ Douawona Allll., 111~1 M@ .. pn DougTosh• ·DouJ 8ilidCr ~~ ...... ·Henry G. Fein s;o~t~.r.-. WilliamJ. Holleran c .............. Richard L. ltflllllel' Alit. Sflartii'AIIIar Mark ShUJCill . Alii ...... ...., .... Cbarla Lone ·~Conrey STAFJo': Nina Wolff. Harris Samuels. Ahoy Schutzer; Judy Steinbach, 'Michael Galer. Lc~ Goldman. Joseph Achenbaum. David Conti, Greg Hamlin. Bruce Garber. Mike Gottlieb. M. Grossman, Michael Hollander. George Kuplan. Robert A. Levine, Mike Meserole, Thomas Morante, Ruth Morton. Michael Rosenburg, Burgess Brier: Brenda Kaplan,· Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell, Jay Hobard, Len Solomon, George Bain. Marty Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman Published Tuesdays and Fridays during the school year by the student body ol Union College. Sch~nect;1dy .. N.Y .. Nurinnal Atlvcrti!iing_ Rcprcscntntivc. National Educntional Adv!.!rlising. Scnk~c. Inc .. College J>uhlishcrs Rcprcscntntivc, 360 l.c~in!!t<>n 1\\c .. N.Y.C. Editunnl <>fficc. Old Oym. llninn Cullcgc. Publication Office. llle Wtlrld l'ubl;catiuns. 771 State Street .. Sehcncctadv. N.Y. 12307. 346- 2356. l'ntcrcd in the Schenectady post nnicc m Scc<>nd Class Mail Mauer. Suhst·ription 20 t.•cnts n cup}·. ~(In )L'Hr dcli\'C·rcd ttnywhcrl' in the llnitcd ~~ate~. THE COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS: TOM WINSLOW 0/the Hudson River Sloop CLEARWAT~R .A B;S 0 LUTE L Y FREE Saturday Night - Oct. 31st After the Roland Kirk Concert NOTT MEMORIAL THEATRE (Cider, Coffee, and Chaos, as Usual) EditOr's note: The following was written ijy the five .participants in T.uesd.ay's guerrilla theatre presen\' tation in the C]Japel. . Five students and one faculty member were forced by Presi:.. dent Martin to leave Memorial Chapel on Tuesday for t)leactions they had ·taken during the Dolph Drodge convocation. They are now facing disciplinary action. It is important at this time to explain to the college community exactly what happened and why. Heckling .of the speaker bY dif- ferent individuals and groups occurred on several occasions during the speech, and altbough this heckling is not d-irectly related to the disciplinary action, we feel an. emotiol).S.l climate was created wl).ich later precipitated unjustified actions on tne part of the administration. Heckling of this sort is an accepted form of dialogue in such institutions as the' British House ofCommons arid the Oxfor<l debating society and are part of a traditional democratic process. We felt it was partlcularly necessary and morally justified considering the overwhelming num:ber of miscon- structions and debatable points that the speaker had made. We feel that Jqst as it is proper and acceptable for a speaker to be interrupted by favorable applause· it is also proper and acceptable for a speak;er to be interrupted by booing and especially by con- structive and pertinent heckling. A question and answer period is clearly inadeqtlate to confrontall the points of the speaker for d i a 1 o.g u e at a convocation is- extremely limited and difficult. Because we recognized the limi- tations of traditional forms of dialogue, we developed a guerilla theater approach .to rebuttal. \Guerilla Theater\ is theater which espouses specific political ideas and Which exists to spread these ideas to the public. The s c e ne r i o of this particular guerilla theater had one person as a caricature of American AID, CIA, and wealthy corporate and political interests. He was fol- lowed by a person in the role of the puppet government ofthe Thieu regime. Both .were sup- ported by the presence of two US soldiers. The AID man confronted two Vietnamese who were work- ing the land, and he demanded their rice. The soldiers came ' forth and forced submission. The AID mali then gave some rice to the puppet regime, threw a few kernals of rice back at the Viet- namese in the form of AID, and kept most of the rice for hitn- self. At tbis point, people por- traying the NLF came forward to 1 i.b era t e the Vietnamese people. They took the rice from the Aib man and the puppet figure and redistributed it to the Viet .. namese. The soldiers realized their complicity· in exploiting the people, and joined tne NLF in driving American interests and the Puppet government out of the country. The scenerio over- - simplifies· the complicated way in w hi c h vested interests in America exploit for their own self interest and brutalize the Viet- namese people in collusion With a corrupt government that does not r e p r e s e n t or protect the interests of tb.e people. The theater was presented at a time when people were leaving the chapel and when the question and answer period was increas- ingly difficult to participate in t h r o ugh conventional modes. M i d way through the theater, President Martin interrupted us and demanded that we ieave the chapel. Despite his presence and * * * * rupted our discourse. The qppor- tunity for members ofthecoUege co m m u.n i t.y to confront DolPh :Orodge was in no way violated by the activit.ies of Guerilla theater. The question andanswer period in fact continued fo:r;- an hour. We were' denied the .right o.f political e~pression, and we believe thl;l actions of the achnin .. is tr aHon were paternalistic, repressive, absqrd, and in bad faith. Pater-nalistic: Accordiilgto one facult-y member, President Mar- tin felt l).is .presence at the chapel w a,s necessary \because there was going to be trouble.\ HLs response was, in effect, to act as chaperone; and he sought to intimidate us and ta disrupt our action with hjs .presence. As ail other facultY member des- cribed .the event, '\I'm glad ne acted like a father.\' This pater- nalistic and .repr.f!ssive attitude Wa$ also J;\eflected when Presi- dent Martin. anno~ced to us that our hearings would be at closed meetings, '\be c a.u se you know what yi;Ju get. w}J.en you have an open hearing withstudents- chaos.\ Repressive.: President Martin had no right, no matter what method he usee,!, to interfere with our political expression. 1 We did not keep Dolph Drodge from speaking nm; from responding to our objections to his speecl). Absurd: Dean Lichterman told Of1e Of. those WllO rais~ ObjeC• tions tq IJrodge's speech Utat he ••-was acting lil\Ei a fascist punk.'' The overreactiOn on the part of the administration to our rela- tively innocuo.U$ activlties was also absurd. Another AID repre~ sentative had even been bai:red frqm s~aking at anotheruniver- sity. In Iight of current .P<>litical r ealiti~t~, ·especially those created by the government, Ollf actions were subdued. The over- w-belmmg- absurdity., however, was the polite applaqse for Dolph Drodge who was· here to ration- alize out .pf ex;istence legitimate objections to the Unite(! S~tes' immoral and' destructive policies and participation ill Vie t n am during. tl~e Ia~t two de.cad~s •. :6ad Faith: :tn a~~;;tu:ning that the guerilla theater was ~ntended to disrupt di$COUfSe; President Martin acted in bad fatth, and <Ud .npt even Wait for us to fiflish ,our presentation. · Guerilla theater i:S a meoium.of unquestionable v a 1 i.d it y. The attempt to repress any fo.rrn of expressi<;m, political or other- wise, because itdoes-'notcontorm to «traditional.\ me~s of corn- m unication, or because it does , not conform to t.he pen>onal tastes of \authorities;\ must not be acceptec;I by the college com- munity. THE· PEOPLE ·HAVE TH>E RIGHT '1'9 PROTEST! Shaffer Library BOOK SALE Tuesday leather Coats And Outerwea~ MINl FUROR OVER LONGER LENGTHS? November ·a, ~ . L....-..--~- .. --------~-__, ___ .;___ ____ .,J· demands we finished the skit, a 1 t h o u g h his interruption did serve- to confuse the pt;!rformance Film Haps Presents \WAGES OF FEAR\ (The \Z\ of the 1950's) By Henri-Georges Clouzot (Hitchcock with a touch of carbolic acid) Starring Yves Montand SS016 Sat. 7:00, 9:30, and 12:00 Oct. 31 & Nov. 1 Sun. 3:00, 7:00, 9:30 and 12:00 and in fact violated our tight of participation in the diScourse. After we were outside, Presi- dent Martin told students to give their names to Dean Malloy and said they would be brought before a disciplinary committee. He also told the faculty member that he would be brought before a faculty , committee for disciplinary I action. The people in the guerilla theater believe their activity was ,.A VALID FORMofpolitic:U ·expression. The .president claimed' that we. \obst.ructecl dis- course.\ In fact, he had inter .. m~e. . ~quire §bop · 326 STATE STREiT, 377•3061 . (

.. told objec- tb.at he punk, 11 part. 0 f r~la­ w~ repre- bai-.red those OUJ.' over~ rOolph S~tes' that andd~d fitlish The of other- corn- does be com- HAVE . !I l . Jazz Workshop Plays At Rathskell• Friday . By ANNE GEMMELL an~ UONNA fUNC.'JaER In conjunction wlth it efforts t tlle Workshop cl'!ll also .provide to mal\:e Union students more facilities for membe~s to record aware of music, and ipparticular and to perform ongin:il com- of jazz, members of t;he • ,Jazz posit~o!l$. . . .. . . Workshop wiU perfo;rm ongtna1 It rs a ~ique orgamzatton arrangenu;ni.ts, tree at the ~ath- formed to . fUl th: void l~ft by skellar tonigb.t at 8:30. . the death of the Un~on stage b.and Feattll'ed at this concert vtiU three years .ago. Smce that hme be .Greg Che$son, Matt Finley., any jazz-oriented stuctenthas had Jim :aenning and Dave Herzfeld no' outlet except the MbanyState who compti$e the cove of the Lab :Sand. The WorkshopnotonlY Workshop. In addition, thi$ fill$ this void, but because of qua.,rtet is augmented' . by about its loose . structure attracts thirty-five other students who ~e peop~e . with a wide range of also mterested in jal:nJlling and mus1cal 1nterests. _ . . .participating in work;shop,activi.. Plans for tl.le future m~lude t 4 · . occasional. . performance.s 1n the ... es. ·· ·· · · . The Jazz WorkshoP, suppotted style of the Cof;fee-Ho~s~, a b1g by funds allocated by the Tax conce:t b~fare T~gtv:m~, ~d Committee sees as its majer ob- orgam2;atlon and pa!;'flcipatlon m jective the presentati.onofcl:i,nics a Capital District Jazz Festival or labs of the type sponsored by m the spring. the Sot:ial Committee on Oct. 31 · students who wisl.l to pa,rtici- with RoJ.and l(irk. Such informal pate in the . Workshop should sessions are designed to give stq- contact ., president, Watt Finley, dent$ maximum cont~t With 1• who regards the Workshopas •an and oppor-tunity to learn from,. excellent opportunity for anyone professional performers. In with musical -interests Who is addition tQ th~se jam sessions, wUling to devote time to them.\ To the Editor: It is certainly a slur against the student$ of UnionColleg;e that the communist paper boY and hi$ ilUterate lackey have not been laughed: .o:l1f campus• Two pa,per tigers whose only verbal dex- terity is in evading direct quest- . ions · and repeating tbe archaic communist catechism. But even these incompetents should take · advantage of the relative freedom of dissent our country offers, for come their revolution tllere wUl be none. * * To the Editor: JIM STEWART * * As a spectator at Gary Maurer's trial, I must take ex- ception to the conclusions drawn about the jl.ldicial system by Leonard Schneider in his article qescribing the proceedings ofthe trial. The reason for Gary's cop. .. viction was not the judicial system but Gary himself. Gary serving as his own , . l~wyer, managed to establish that the arresting officers did not know of any law requiring him to identify himself and that they had ~;>rders to be on the lookout for a man selling communist papers. But Gary did not press these points! Clearly, if he wanted to _ make it a political trial, as he Tuesday, .November 3 is election day • People are des-. perately needed to work. If you are intereSted, please contact ;Mark coven, Movement fo~ .. A New congress, at StudentActLVl- ties or 346•0457. IEEE so obviously did, he should have called as a witness the man who issued the ol'der to · watch for him, so as to ascertain the purpose behind the order. He was · so eager to voice his radical The Student :Branch of cordially invites the entire Stu- dent CommWlity .to its third meet- mg. The m_eeting will be on Thursday, November 5 at 7:30 p.m. in SS115. * * * * * * * * There will be an informative OFF THE DOGS PLEASE - The presence of dogs in the West College Dining Hall is both an inconvenience and a health· hazard, meeting for th,e Christmas Re- cruitment Program on Thursday, November 5 at .7;30 in the Hale House LoUhge. The program is aimed at contacting and en- couraging High School Students who have snow 3Jl interest in Union Colege for the class of , 75 • Dul'ing the Christmas holi- days, thOse interested w~l pian interViews ~lth students 1n All students a,;re ux:_ged to h~lP. keep the dining area free of canines and consequently, the wrath of the Schenectady Health Department. their .area, students other than The social committee is sp?n- Gates men a;re ·welcome. . soring a cont:ert by Roland KU:k * * * * this Saturday, October 31 m Memorial Chapel at 8:30 P·~· Dick Gregory will be· at Hudson Tickets are now on sale ln Valley , Community College on Student Activities for ONLY Tuesday, November 3, at 7 p.m. $ 2 • 00 •. · Transportation will be pro- Other Social Committee C~n- Vided and will leave from ce•ts coming up in the future Memorial Cnapel at 6p.m. :Round are Sha Na Na on Fall Weekend and· Jethro Tull Qn November l.3 trip fare is $.so and alUnterest- Tickets for these will be on salt ed may sign up'in Student Activi- soon in Stude~t Activities~. ·ties. Whether you're into -John Sebastian or Johann Sebastjan, you· should come in to Center Stage. We k~ow how im,po:rtant music is. And we think everybody deserves the best possible playback, a! the lowest possible price. . . . . That describes Panasomc equtpment. , h. We sell everything P<masonic makes. Were t e nation's only all-Panasonic store. And, as far ~s \':e know, the only store that lets you turn on anythmg 1n,. the stove. . . B · · y· .. . Frear what you've been mlssmg. rmg m an recording, and listen to it- free. ~~oooooooo~Ii''i5'Siii3(1 g!2tooooo.oc 00000 coooooo oooc'O ooc ooooooooooooooooo u ••• p ANASONIC IS THE WHOLE SHOW!'' IN THE MINI MALL A-,: MOHAWK MA.U., .SCHENECTADY ·. .• TEL. (516) 3&6·19311 ' OpenlOlOIJ a.m. lo 9130 . p.in., Monday through Saturday . palitical ideology (which he does rather poorly anY:way) 1 however, that he virtually ignored the two major points in his favor. In short, be should have had a lawyf:lr. A laW}ler could have played on the stupidity of the two arresting Officers far better and · would have presented a far superior image . to that of the emotiomal Gary, For lack of a lawyer, Gary paid his penance, . $100 worth. REID RUSSELL * * * * SMILE WltEN YOU DISRUP1 THIS CONVOCATION BOYS. 'OCT. 30, 1970 CONCORDIENSIS, PAGE 3 port the senator for re-electiOli. First, let us set the record straight that while Senator Goodell is worthy of respect for hiS several stands against the ad- ministration, his record as a \true liberal'' is hardly im- pecca.Ple. As one Republican senator said two days ago, while campaigning upstate for Goodell; e~senator Goodell has done more for President NiXon's domestic pro~am then either of his two opponents could have.\ In ad- dition although we should , . . ' strongly applaud the senator s conversion to liberalism, wasn't it just a little bit too rapiQ. for it to have been based on deeply- held · philosophical and politi- cal convictions? Wasn't it, after all based more on expediency and , the senator's changed constitu• ency? Vet, despite these doubts about Goodell's sincerity, !sympathize strongly with his plight. {Indeed, had a man o~ less qualification than Dick Ottinger received the Democratic nomination, I might well today be working for Goodell,) However, I adamantly refuse to let myself be used as a pawn by Vice President A-g- new • .As Ramsey Clark wrote to the New YorJ.c Times, Agnew's attacks on Goodell were care- fully calculated to split the liberal vote; to get \bleeding hearts\ and \knee- jerk liberals\ to leave the · ottinger camp for Goodell, because Agnew knows Goodell can't poj;sibly win, Ag- new's strategy, simply, is to . elect Buckley. and our strategy, as liberals, must be to defeat Buckley, by electing Ottinger. Buckley is too dr mn close to becoming our riext .enator for us to throw away our votes. Unless we start to really use our heads and vote strategi- cally; unless we call upon all the substantial political acumen ~d sophistication at our comand; and unless we, as liberals, back the one man who can defeat Buckley, then we will have proven that Vice President Agnew is .smarter than we are. PHIL ROBINSON ''71 To the Editor:- It is unfortunate, that in this time of obvious crisis some ~embers of the Union student body seem to be confused. The members to whom I refer are those who in the past have expressed concern over the In- dochina war and what has come to be ealled 'rising fascism' at home. Over the last six months this concern has been reflected in a number of ways, ways that have been more contradictory than consistent. Last spring when we ALL realized that Nixon's Cambodi- an fiasco did nothing to further our mutual cause (peace, in case it slipped your mind), we gather- ed to denounce the enemy. General Eleetric, the Knolls Lab anQ. the Local Draft Board were all subjected to the fierce Union growl. William Kunstler, when he told us that the second phase of the revolution had begun, MUST have been convinced of our revolutianary intent when he · heard thunderous applause rising in the chapel. It all seemed so logical. With the mellowing tone of the fall, the Union growl has fallen to a condescendingwhim- per. Charles Evers, that polite black who seemed like a Father to us all, reminded us that the system can work, and if we all work hard we will finally be led to the Promis~ Land. Our applause said that we were convinced. It all seemed so logic~. Tuesday morning DolffDrodge, with the adroitness of our entire Political Science department, rationalized and justified the kill- ing of thousands of Vietnamese. Once again our applause revealed our agreement. After all, it sounded so logical. There is a lesson to be learn- ed here, comrades, but I am afraid that you will have to find it for yourselves, I'm too busy loo~ing for a logical explanation for the assassination of Richard Nixon. SKIP MOWRY t71 ACME BARBER SHOP ; 509 Union Street EXPE~IENCED .BARBERS Nearest to Union College Students DOUG.LAS MEN'S SHOES 319 STATE ST. NEXT TO UNDERPASS $1 DISCOUNT ON SHOES WITH UNION 1-D CARD . Peter Pause . . '535 ·NoH Street - . ·~ .

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, OCT. 30, 1970 Concordy Sports. Boot ContinuesScoringDrought losingfourthln RowT oColgate · Hosts Ephmen in Renew·a:l.of S.eries By MARK SHUG.OLL By GEORGE BAIN The Union soccer team :;;ank to a lower level ' of ineptitude Tuesday, losing to previously winless Colgate 1-0 in double overtime. Jim Neuberger scored on a penalty kick for the host Red Raiders with 90 seconds left in the second overtime period, lifting Colgate's record to 1-7-1. Union's record slipped to 2-4-1, and the team has now lost four in a row. Neither team played well, and the o-o score at the end of regu- lation time accurately reflected the quality of the game. Once again, the Garnet encountered the c u r rent nemesis-an ina- bility to score. Six Union shots hit the Red Raider posts, with one comingon an open net shot. Only goalie Craig Barger stood out for the Dutchmen in the loss, making fifteen saves in the nets. His counterpart from Colgate, Joe Geigher, had ten .. Neuberger's winning goal came after a questionable .penalty on a headball play in front of the Garnet nets. In the ensuing dis- cussion, Dutchmen Larry Mull- man and Bill Porter were ejected from the game .. for vehemently disputing the call, but their departure did not affect the out- come. The Garnet however, · ning season. With three games left, Union must win all three .to push its seasonal mark above .500 for the first time since 1958. The Garnet host Middlebury tomorrow afternoon at 2:00in the final home game of the year. The . boaters from Vermont boast a 5-2-1 record, including a 3-3 tie with nationally ranked Spring .. field. They have a tenacious defense and a limited offense- a team similar to the Dutchmen. The scfiedule closes out next week with games against per- ennially weak squads frGm Hart- ford and Albany State. * * * * This reporter wishes to identify photographer Jim Dun- can and Garnet co-captain Chris Swan, the regrettably \unidenti- fied forward\ in the picture which appeared in Tuesday's paper: apologies to both. X-Country Finishes 5-3; Albany and ·states Next . By GREG HAMLIN Freshman Bob Nesbitt set his fourth course record of the year Wednesday, leading the Union cross-country team to a sup- risingly easy 19-36winoverpre- viously tmdefeated Oneonta. The Garnet, who now own a 5-3 mark, co p p e d five of the first seven places in the romp. Nesbitt, the stellar performer for the Dutchmen during their dual meet season,. toured the six- mile Oneonta course in 31:5'7, averaging an amazing 5:19 per mile, Cadets Invade Teammates Bryant Moeckel and Tim McCabe followed Nes• bitt a cross the finish line, Moeckel and McCabe were only 19 seconds behind the frosh record-breaker. The contest was the last regular season meet for the cross-country squad. Tomorrow, the Garnet will compete in the Albany Invitational, which will feature last year's NAIA cross- country champ, Ron Stonitch, Ori the folloWing weekend, the Dutchmen will run in the State Meet at Buffalo, Union and Williams Colleges will ldc~ofi for the sfXty-.secolld time on Saturday with the Garnet ~n.pursUitof their third consecutive win of the season. The Ephmen from Williamstown, Massachusetts, have rallied for two victories in their l'ast thi-ee games and. need a victory tomorrow to even their record at 3.o3. Williams routed Tufts last Weekend, aQ.d also holds an impressive win over previously Wlde;feated MiddlebUry. The Ephmen have been in contention .in all their baii games with each contest being decided in the final period. Quarterback Terry Smith will direct the visitors attac~. The 6 .. 2J 206 · pound junlor to date has completed 48 of 109 pa~ses for 75!5 yards and five tol~::l~1uuwn~. Hi$ favorite r&ceiver has proven to be sophomor·e John Par!{er wlth 15 catches for 211 yardS. Smith was lost to Williams for the season last year with an injury suffered in the Union game. Diclc Skrocki, Ed D' Arata and Jolm Gallagher will all SE)e action L\l the Ephmen backfield. Skrocki, a 185 pound jurtior, is the leading groundgainer with 235 y~ds in 56 carries. . · Captain Ron Farnham is the offensive Une leader at taclde for Williams with 210 pound senior Paul Oldshue bolstering the dMen- . ' . . sive line. · . The 4-2 Dutchmen finally put their offense togli!ther last week in a 17-14 win over Hobart, RunningbacksJohnSwankoand Rick Jaszczak each ran for over 100 yards, and quarterback Dave Rearic threw a 71 yard touchdown pass and directed the GaJ:net forces to t_wo long scoring drives. The defense turned in its weekly fine showing versus the Statesmen although Hobart did put more points on the scoreboard than _any ~ther team this season. Linebacker Don LeBart, tackles Rit Gallucc1·and Charlie Weekes and defensive backs Paul Ramsey and Pete Keller , . ,. . . have dominated the outstanding unit. Sophom.ore Aldo VJ.fasi 1s scheduled .for his first starting as~ignment of the season at defen- sive end after a strong showin~ against. liPbart. . The Ephmen have won 42 of the prev-ious Union-Williams meetings With four games ending in ties. They ran over the Garnet a year ago at Willuims 34-0~ Game time on Saturday is set for 1:30 on Alexander Field. played. the entir~ game with~ut T·o Test Ruggers the services of P1erre Roumam. · Coach Bob McMurray cited the team's •fl·ustrating'' inability to score. Union has now scored a mere four goals in their last five games and haS been. shutout in its last two games, SCC Rallies To Tie '74 Soccer \It's bad news when we can't score and play poorly,\ McMurray commented. \The defertse-the :fullbacks and half- backs-are holding up, but we just can't put the ball in the net. I really have nothing to say. We lost, and that's that.\ McMurray, however, still sees a good chance for that rare win- frosh Gridd~ers Battle 1-3 RPI The Garnet rugby squad, still in search of their first win in The freshmen soccer team dis- team~s first shot on goal, and put nearly three years, collide with sipated three leads on Tuesday it into the right hand corner for a first-year cadet club from in settling for a 3-3 tie with a score. Union goalie John Slat- Norwich University tomorrow an outplayed Schenectady Com- teland had no chance as the afternoon on Library Field. munity College eleven. The screened shot was perfectly Gametime is 2:00p.m. standoff left· the Dutchmen with placed. The ruggers' latest loss a 2-1-2 record, with one game In the thirdquarterSCCevened occured lastweekendatWesleyan remaining. the score at two when netminder where the Cardinals eked out a The tie was particularly dis- Sletteland failed to punch out a tough 10·6 decision over the appointing in that Union com- Qorner kick. The goal was scored win .. hungry Dutchmen. Co-cap- pletely dominat!3d play. The from the ensuing scramble in tain Howie Goldberg was a stand- Garnet outsllot Schenectady 24-6, front of the net. out for Union,. scampering 50 holding them to only one shot on Midway in the fourthperiodthe yards for a try, whieGary Lynch goal in the entire first half. Union Dutchmen regained the lead:when added the Garnet's other three also made nine corner kicks while Kevin Donnelly broke through on points on a penalty kick. only four were taken by the left Wing and centered to tri· Even though the first-stringers opposition. captain Brickley, who deftly put lost, the Dutchmen could boast The Dutchmen jumped into a the ball in the upper left corner of a victory at Wesleyan as 2-0 lead in the first period, both of the net from seven yards out, Union's promising B team goals beingscoredbyRobWUder. The lead lasted until only 2:58 triumphed in a cliff-hanger, 6-3. At 9:20 Wilder took a pass from was left in the game, when another If the Garnet want to win this Mark Brickley and put it past the momentary defensive lapse per- b k fall, they will have to do it onrushing goalie,. TheGarnetfor- mitted the· Schenectady right Jerry Cuffey, a defensi'lre ac th inside to shak· e himself loose and rt N y and Ken tomorrow as the Norwich con- ward got his second goal of e from Freepo ' • • · )1 t inth score from close. in. Two ove:r- b k fr mSchenec test wraps up the three-game game (and tile season a er e Berman and Brickley (the other tri-qaptain is Charley Booth), along with Donnelly; Wilder, and .Jolm Perlstein. Helping the!ll in dominating play were Di~k Samuels, Dave Kawecki, and Bill Brey. · Nevertheless, dominating play alone does not win games. A disappointed Coach. Scanlon felt t}Jat the team 11 just didn't want it.\ Booth echoed these senti- ment$ in looking forward to the Middlebu'ry gam,e tomorrow. The game SatlU'day i~ on Garis fieldJ starting at high noon. Mid- dlebury 1 Union's final opponent of the season, is probably the best team the Dutchmein will. face this year. As of last report the Panthers' recor(i -was unblem- ished, including a 5-1 conquest of RPI (a 1-o · Garnei victim). Sat. Sked Grey, aline ac ebr P ed o- autumn schedule, A Union loss first period. Passes from Bob time periods failed to determine a tady, N.Y., have een na~ c • kl · s t w· inner altho.ugh the Dutchmen f th U 1 College Saturd.ay meansthattheseem- Curry and Brie ey agam e captains o e ·non t.hrea.tened several times. · · tball t ingly never-ending quest for a up the goal. freshman foo · earn. Late in·· the· -second quarte:t c. ited in the contest for fine Football vs. Williams 1:30 p.m. l i g are Garnet rugby victory will resume The Dutchmen year 0 8 · fo d t k his p· lay. were tri-ca..ptains Mar\'' ·Aiexand.er.F'•ield dat ith a 21 14 win in the spring. a Schenectady . rwar oo .. .., ~~1 to ew - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·SRC~V~M~d~b~y2:00p.~ over Trinity, a 21-12 defeat to g··aley· F·iel.d the Hobart JV's and a 13-13 surprise tie With a strongHud- N· u· ·s··b· .. ·. a·.·u· . m. 's ; F.r. Soccer vs. Middlebury 12 Noon son Valley cc team. · Garis Field In the HudSon Valley game, the Rugby vs. Norwich 2 :Oil p.m. Union frosh trailed 13•6 in the Library Field final quarter when quarterback Gary Lauver passed nine yards to end Bob Alexander for the . touchdown and fullback Al Albano kicked the extra point for the tie. The other Dutchmen touchdown came on a 100 yard return of the game's opening kickoff by half .. back Bruce Mathias. The Union freshmen too~ on the RPI frosh today at2p.m, in Troy. \OUTFITTERS .TO MEN and YOUNG MEN\ MOHAWK MALL BALLTOWN RD. DOWNTOWN 447 STATE ST. The Engineer yearlings are 1 .. 3 •.\ ··HEIIEfti'TADY I Europe Swings -15 days $282. Go by Heck year men. . ! to date this year, losing their _, v ~ last three after an ·opening win 1 f: over the Worcester . Tech first . , ,...._.......,....,.~-~...-:---\\':-'-- ·~--~--------~----------~--~--------------~--~----~.-.~.-----.~ 151 Banett. St. '346-3431

