970 ina ·day 1ced 1acy All i by oyle ~hell lded 12, Bob in a and d at :tion rday will nilton sation I Field er the ' s. The 1n the HPS. I >QSIT - 744 Bar • • • ) FotH 1df d at Lrn w11 Colle_(re 1 ~ 11 VOLUME, 99 NO. 43 SCHENECTADY,tNEWYORK,'MARCH 3,1970 PRICE \TVVENTV CENTS Concert Loss Offers.Union A Silent Spring This Year Despite almost unanimous .Parents' Weekend activities. pric:el~ss ,guitar. raves by those who attended On Sunday afternoon, Afier the concert, the Sa tu r day night's David April 12, three lesser-known Profffit reported the loss of an Frye-Mason Proffit concert, blues groups will appear in a old Les Paul guitar with the prospects for· future joint blanket concert in the browiJish-red sunburst and a concerts look dim. The Fieldhouse. The Savoy Brown dama;ged toggle switch as well production lost close to Blues Band, Family, and Nice as a l~ather coat and a pair of $1200. And while the Proffit will perform. Costs of the aviatLon sunglasses. The guitar was on stage, one of its concert will be absorbed by a was reportedly worth at least guitars was stole~. book in~ agency as a $400, but according to After a meeting yesterday p rom o t 1 o n a 1 g est u r e. Mic~elson \could have been wit~ Presiden~ Martin, the Michaelson said, \'We may eas.il.)\' sold for $1000. It's the Soc1al Committee revealed have more such concerts, hut dream of every rock musician that there are essentially no this is the only one defmite to <JV\Vn 2 I.es Paul guitar.\ more funds available for now.\ M..lchaelson said that \as a concerts this year. Sad In an exclusive interview Termed \really a sad Boston Chamber Players ·~To Perform Here Sunday with Concordy last evening, situation\ by Michaelson, the Acting Social Committee theft from the basement of Chairman Bob Michaelson the chapel involved a viJ,tually Continued on Page 3 said that \the outlook for a Spring Weekend concert is very dim, since there don't seem to be any finances available to back up our losses.\ Famed Psychologist Will Speak Thursday The Boston Symphony Chamber Players, an \' ensemble of the Boston Symphony's principal artists. will appear in the Chapel next { Sunday at 7:30p.m. Their appearance is sponsored by the Union College-Schenectady Museum Concert Committee as part of its 1969-70 music series. Goal Reached Now in their sixth season, ( the Chamber Players have well achieved the Symphony's goal of ,~ introducing its members t() the public as individual artists of considerable merit. Appearing in Sunday's ' concert will be Gino Cioffi, clarinet; Doriot Anthony Dwyer, flute; Armando Ghitalla, trumpet; William Gibson, trombone; Ralph Gomberg, oboe; James Stagliano, French horn; and ~ Sherman Walt, bassoon. Besides appearing in' many states in this country, the _, group has played in London and has toured Germany and the Soviet Union. In 1966, their first recordings received the coveted \Grammy\ (. award. The very last days oi distribution for the 1969 Union Book will be this Wednesday and Thursday. The Distribution Center, in Middle Section Nortl1 College, will be open from three to five on each of the afternoons indicated. A II those who are planning to contribute tCJ next year's edition of tt.e book are reminded that essays, poetry and other think-pieces are due A.pril 10th. Sunday's program will feature \Woodwind Quintet in G minor,\ by Franz Danzi; ''Three Pieces for Flute, Clarinet, Bassoon,\ by Francis Poulenc; \Trio No. 4 for Flute, Oboe, Bassoon,\ by Jurriaan Andriessen; and ''Quintet for Wind Instruments,\ by Paul Taffanell. No loss Two concerts will be held Bruno Bettelheim, a in the Spring. Neither will nationally recognized involve the risk of the loss of psychologist and educator' who has characterized current any substantial sum of student radicals as money. On the evening of anti-intellectual and has May 2, jazz vibraphonist likened them to th.e Nazi Lionel Hampton will appear youth of the 1920s and 30s, in the chapel as part of the will speak at Union, Comprehensive Exams Center I Fixes Standards By M. SA.ll Y VOTTIS The particulars of senior comprehensive examinations in the Humanities and Social Sciences were recently discussed at a meeting of the Student Senate Curricular Affairs Committee. These examinations, administered during the senior year, probe the depths of each student's knowledge concerning his professed major. Professor Robert Herman, Chairman of the Department of Economics stated that the tentative date of the economics exam would be May 23, 1970. Questions will be distributed prior to this 45 minute oral exam, which will be administered by two Economics professors. The exam will be \general in nature\ and may be retaken if failed. Poli. Sci. According to Professor Joseph Board, Chairman of the Department of Political Science, the impending es~ in his department will most probably be a take-home exercise, and will be vecy general in nature. Associate Professor of English, Michael Sinagel, expounding on the English Major Field. Examination, said that the proposal was to adrnininster at the end of the winter term a one-hour oral examination by a committee, consisting of two members of the Department and an outside examiner, testing the senior on his general knowledge of English and American literature. He will also be tested on at least three of. the twelve areas of specializatiqn. ·Seniors who fall to pass this exam will be given another individual oral exam by three members of the Department at the end of the spring term. Students failing this second exam will not graduate and must wail a full year to retake it. Junior majors will be given a diagnostic oral exam toward the end of the spring term by a two·man committee, the purpose being to indicate weaknesses in overall knowledge as well as in chosen areas of specialization. Chairman of the Department of History, Professor Joseph Finklestein stated that the History \comp.\ would consist of a written and an oral section. Some of the questions chosen to constitute the written portion of the exam will be given out three to four weeks prior to the exercise. The oral exam will consist of a discussion and defense of the student's thesis or senior project and also of the questions whicl1 were distributed prior to the written exam. Written The written exam will concentrate on the stu.denfs area of specialization, with some questions of a comparative nature to be presented concerning a secondary field of the student's choosing. The oral exam will be entirely in the field of specialization. Both parts of the exam given in the middle ·of May, may be retaken if the student has a reasonable excuse for doing so. Professor Malcolm Willison of the Department of Sociology stated that the comprehensive exam, given early in the spring, would revolve around the student's thesis. Thucsday, March 5. J)r. Bettelheirn's address \ih.e Social and Psycho1o~ical REasons for St111ien t Unrest,\ is scheduled for 8 p.m. in Memorial Chalpel and is open to stu!lents with no admission cb.acged. In addition, Dr. BetteU1eirn will lecture and show fllms on the life of Cldldren in a Kibbutz at 1 :30 TIL11rsday in SS 016. Ifis analysis in a recent article in Change magazine (:ll[ay-June 1969) where he demies validity to the causes of .stuclent rebels and mourns th.e loss of commitment to ~'imte]ectual adventure\ has been the center of C()lnsiderable controversy. Dr. Bettkheim is a professor of psychology and ps)Jchiatry and Stella M. Rowley professor of edmc:ati()n at the University of Chicago. Rorn in Vienna, Austria, he •cante to America in 1939 after l:leing released from D~achau: concentration camp by- the Nazis. He has gained nuional prominence for his n~nerous books and articles om edu.cation and motivation. His most recent book, pUJblisl:l.ed las year is Children of the Dream an analysis of cornrnunal child rearing and its implications for American Eclllcation. In addition to his teaching and. writing, Dr. B'ettelheirn is director of the University of C:hicago'~ Orthogenic School for the treatment of severely d:istuibed children.

PAGE 2 Farewell To Concerts? Sattuday's finaHcially disasterous concert raises a number of questicn1s about the future of social events at Union. Now that the budget for the entire year has been exhausted, we must attempt to consider the relative merits of' mounting large eJJ.tertainment productions on a regular basis. In the middle of January when the David Frye concert seemed in financial trouble because of a lack of backup funds, an overwhelmingly large majority of Union men indicated that they would patronize the event if it were held. Yet when the concert started Saturday night, less than 900tickets had been sold. Pe~haps the chief factor in the financial debacle was competition with other events. The huge popular Fifth Dimension appeared Friday night in Troy, drawing away many dollars that might have been spent to see David Frye and the Mason Proffit. Saturday night was also one of the busiest non-Big Weekend evenings in Union history. In addition to the concert, the Mountebanks played to a sold-out audience, and the basketball team concluded its season before a large crowd at the Fieldhouse. · Significantly for the falure of the concert, the other events on campus were essentially free. Thus the man who went to Troy on Friday or who found himself short on funds as the term .ends could find substitute entertainment at a fraction of the cost of the chapel concert. We are not suggesting that the other events should have been canceled. But perhaps there could have been some changes in scheduling so that the concert would not have conflicted. This, of course, is wonderful 20-20 hindsight. Perhaps three concerts a term is simply too much for the traffic to bear if those concerts are to come close to breaking even. A.s we have said before on these pages, perhaps the psychology that concerts should make money is falacious. On a campus of this limited size, concerts can only be successful if a very large proportion of the student body attends. This is simply unlikely. There must be an overhaul in the methods by which funds are allocated for social events. The present we'll-see-how-much-you-lose-and-then-decide system makes scheduling of expensive groups, that would be more likely to sell, a virtual impossibility. There has !leen no real policy set as to how much concerts can or should lose before the program must be canceled. It is time such a policy is set. IRC David Jones, Treasurer of Standard Oil of New Jersey, will speak on \Big Business and Its Effect on U.S. Foreign Policy\ to11ight at 7:45 in SS 016. 1\/lr. Jones, who received his B.A. at the London School of Economics, his M.A. at Columbia and his M.B.A. at Harvard, joined Standard Oil of New Jersey in 1947, and was appointed treasurer of that corporation in 1965. Refreshments will be served. From the Student Social Action Committee: 'The following statement is being circulated in conjunction with the March War ·Moratorium. It is designed to register dissatisfaction with the draft system and the War in Viet Nam by indicating the signees intention, at this time, to refuse future induction into the Armed Forces. ' Any draft eligible male may sign. The signing of this statement is in no way illegal, although actual refusal to report is a federal offense. By signing this statement a person in no way affects his current or future draft status through arbitrary, adrnjnis!rative, reclassification: . ' If ordered f~r induction, I, the undersigned, will refuse. I wPl not serve in the military as long as the war in VietNam co· 1tinues. · Name _________ Lottery No .. ______ _ ·' Pleas~ return ~Pn;tl?l.eted form to St~:~dent. Actilii.t!.es by March · 10.; Tlie ab_?.ve .. ~ a· paid advertisement of the So«?ial Actiqn Co111mit~ee .. : 1 . ' MARCH 3, 1970 Letters To The Editors · \fo the Editors: \There has never been a jus.t one (war), never an htmorable one-on the part of the instigator of the war. I can see a million years ahead, -and this rule will never change in so many as half a dozen instances. The loud little handful-as usual-will shout for the war. The pulpit will-warily and cautiously- object-at first; the great, big, dull bulk of the nation will rub its sleepy eyes and try to rna.ke out why there should be a war, and will say, earnestly and indignantly, 'it is unjust and dishonorable, and there is no necessity for it.' Then the handful will shout louder. A few fair men on the other side will argue and reason against the war with speech and pen, and at first will have a hearing and be applauded; but it will not last long; those others will ou tshout them, and presently the antiwar audiences will thin out and lose popularity. Eefore long you will see this curious thing: the speakers stoned from the platform, and free speech strangled by hordes of furious men who in their secret hearts are still at one with those stoned speakers-as earlier-but do no dare to say so. And now the whole nation-pulpit and all-will take up the war cry, and shout itself hoarse, and mob any honest man who ventures to open his mouth; and presently such mouths Vlill cease to open. Next the sta.tesmen will invent cheap Ues,. putting the blame upon the nation that is attacked, and every man will be glad of those conscience-soothing falsities, and will diligently study them, and refuse to examine any refutations of them; and thus he will by .and by convince himself that the wa.r is just, and will thank God for the better sleep he enjoys after this process of grotesque self-deception.\ Fr<:~m Satan's Speech, Winter <If 1590. li~e Mysterious Stranger L. Mark Sweeney '70 T () the Editors: I would sincerely like to thank both Mountebanks and the Social Committee for p11tting on such an excellent weekend of entertainment. It was. indeed a pleasure to attend both the play and C()!lcert. I do not think that eitil.er group can be praised too highly. This is the type of weekends that I have ·looked forward to for three and one half years. Thank you. Most sincerely Barry Katzman To ·the Editors: It was at first difficult to .ascertain ·exactly why Mr. Krise had taken up the banners of \countless kids across the country (who) wear clothing ... made from American flags ... \ His attacks on those who confuse the symbolism of the flag with its actual material are, of course, justified. A flag has no \magical properties\ it possesses no demons. Those who feel in their loyalty to America (not Amerika, as our clever writer would have us believe) that those who deface a flag should be punished obviously hold a view that is somewhat narrow, and, to a certain ex tent, childish. A flag, according to Mr. Krise, is only that: a flag. worthless. Would not their ' disenchantment be put to better use if they actively supported an organized group concerned with the particular issue they are upset about rather than this useless and unintelligent display? ' • 1 Mr. Krise implies that such displays should be l~gal. He also implies that he condones the same displays. I agree that these dubious commentaries should be legalized. We should not add to the burden of our court system by jailing individuals for such trivia and thereby bog down the system even more than it is. But I cannot endorse such pointless and unintelligent criticisms. If Mr. Krise doubts the greatness of America (as he so cleverly denoted with an ; , l ( But if a flag is only a flag, why do \countless\ kids wear an American flag as clothing and why does Mr. Krise defend them? If the flag is simply cloth and not a symbol, why bother with even wea:ring it? I think that such a display may be considered a vague, immature, and non-construct- ive belittlement of our country. It also seems that these kids and apparently Mr. Krise believe that the flag represents something, otherwise there would be no purpose in defacing it. This type of criticism is directed toward no specific gripe; it is over-generalized and generally off-set question mark) let him strive actively to improve the aspect of America he dislikes. I •· I hope that Mr. Krise will reply to my criticisms, I am sure he has reasons for condoning such displays and I am sincerely interested in hearing them. I • John McC. Witherspoon '73 'P I -·----·-· ~ ._ .... \ ................ -··--·-·--·· ..... .. Write Ithaca College for Summer Session Pictoral Review LOSE YOURSELF IN EDUCATION AND RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES ' I l I J Liberal Arts Program Humanities i I ,.,J Natural Science Social Science Communications Arts Physical Education Program Health Recreation Athletics Performing Arts Program Fine Arts Film Music Radio-TV Theatre PROGRAM FOR ALL i ) ' MARCH Three seniors Woodrov winners J They Paul major fr N.Y. Euge political Bayside, Jame: En glis Minneto The t .seniors nominee universi1 States a1 They Woodro· Fellows' \the promisi plannin! teachers A li: designa1 graduate North recomm be awa fellowsl I Loa~ face oJ naked optical view fine seriousl EastmaJ warns observi1 the Ma1 Ad€ means througl not on en erg) comfor and su invisil infraree cause includi Fa Lo~ Conti~ wild g could two , camp Moun1 the. s€ game those full he The 1 969 Home· featur made Since total c of $1 conce them year .

their ' It to tively group icular about s and I I such He lanes that :aries We Lrden 1iling und •stem ~ . ~ut I !l.tless ns.lf the l ' he so 1 an :thim I •· re the glikes. :will I am for and I I • i in on '73 1 I t I ; I . ..J i ) I J :../. MARCH 3, 1970 PAGE 3 Three Earn Woodrow Wilson Fellowships Three Unwn College In add 1 t 1 on, the graduate of Ballston Spa H.S. Wood r ow W itl S{) n Blither seniors have been named foundation provides diFect 'Eugene V. Kokot, the son Altemates: The Big Brother meeting, originally scheduled for March 4, will be held on Thursday, March 5 at 4: 30 in SS 016. The future of 1he Big Brother program will be discussed. All Big Brothers are urged to attend. If you cannot, please contact :Barry Katzman at 374-0961. Woodrow Wilson Fellowship assistance to 150 fellowship of Mr. and Mrs. Rubin Kokot Paul, G. Farnham, the son winners for 1970. designates and independent of 64,59 228 St., Bayside, of Mr. and Mr.s. G. Milton They are: study awards to the top 100 N.Y. He is a graduate of Farnham of 327 Glen Av~., Paul A. Beals, an English winners. Ftan~is Lewis H.S. in Scotia, .N.Y. M~ is a graduate major from Rock City Falls Two other Union seniors Flushmg. . . of Scotia-Glenville H.S. N y · ' were among· 1 , 152 members James lVI. Williams, the son Michael L. Martell, the .son ·· · · of Mr. and Mrs. James of Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Eugene V. Kokot, a of the class of 1970 singled Williams of 12912 April Martell of 1244 Main St., political science major from out for honorable mention in Lane, Minnetonka, Minn. He Schenectady, N.Y. He is a :Bayside, N.Y. the competition. is a graduate of Hopkins H.S., graduate of Mont Pleasant James M. Williams, an They are: Hopkins, Minn. H.S. English major from Paul G. Farnham, an Minnetoaka, Minnesota. economics major from Scotia, The three are among 1,153 N.Y. seniors chosen from 12;000 Michael L. Martell, an East nominees at 800 colleges and Asian studies-political science universities in the United major from Schenectady, States and Canada. N.Y. Promising They were selected by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship F oundatiorr as \the most intellectually promising 1970 graduates planning careers as college teachers.\ A list of the fellowship designates is sent to deans of graduate schools throughout North America with the recommendation that winners be awarded advanced study fellowships. The list of seniors recelVlng honorable mention will also be circulated among graduate school deans. Begun in 1945, candidates are evaluated by 15 Woodrow Wilson regional selection committees in the U,S. and Canada. Winners Union College Woodrow Wilson Award Winners: Paul A. Beals, the son of . Mrs. Eva G. Beals of Box 94, Rock City Falls, N.Y. He is a Lost Kitten Brown Siamese Missing Somewhere, alone and hungry, in the lonely labyrinth of Schenectady streets, a kitten is lost. A brownish-black half Siamese variety feline with chocolate colored points was lost in the area of Fhi Epsilon Pi last Saturday. This urchin of the animal kingdom may answer to the name of Daphne, although in its pr'esent, probably debilitated, condition, it may wander unable to recognize even those nearest a.nd dearest to it. Anyone who spots Dapnne and wishes to do a good deed may call Fred or Alan at 346-0634, or 346-9959. Please call and .. come home Daphne, all is for given. A representative from Colgate University Graduate School will be in the Placement Office on Wednesday, March 11, 1970 from 9 a.m. until noon to interview seniors interested in attending their \Masters in Teaching Program.\ Any senior interested should sign up in the Placement Office in Wells House by March 1 0. Applications are now available for all Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors interested irl applying to be Freshmen Orientation Group Leaders. Applications, available at Student Activities and are due by March 20. Sola·r Eclipse Use Proper Filter, Save Your Eyes Looking at the unshielded face of the sun witl1 the naked eye or througlt any optical device, such as the viewfinder of a ·camera, can seriously damage the eye, Eastman Kodak Company warns those interested in observing and photographing the March 7 solar eclipse. Adequate protection means looking at the sun through a material which will not only reduce the visible energy of the sull for comfort, but which equally and sufficiently reduces the invisible ultraviolet and infrared radiation which can cause instant d-amage, including blindness, without Frye-Proffit Lose $1200 Continued from Page I 1::, ,. ; wild guess, $800\ of the loss could be attributed to the two conflicting events on campus Saturday, the Mountebanks production and the. season fmale basketball game with Williams. Both of those events reportedly drew full houses. The first concert of the 1 969-70 year was on Homecoming Weeken:d and featured the Youngbloods. It made a profit of over $1200. Since then, five events lost a total of $2400, for a net loss of $1200. Thus Saturday's concert lost about as much as the net loss for the rest of the year. - ' the person's being aware of it. Kodak warns that some erroneous recommendations of filtering material have been made. One erroneous suggestion involves use of crossed polarizing elements which absorb only the visible rays, not the dangerous infrared rays. An adequate niter can be made with two thicknesses of black-and-white film such as Kodak Verichrome Pan Film (do not use color film) which has been completely exposed and fully developed to maximum density. It can be prepared by unrolling it and subjecting the mm to daylight and full development according to the manufacturer's directions. \Negligence said George T. Keene, a photographic engineer for Kodak, \will result in almost certain damage to the retina of the eye. It is possible that only one second of carelessness can result in permanent blindness.\ He pointed out that the naked eye itself is susceptible to this damage and the addition of the large-oper- ative camera lens concentrates the energy and increases the danger to the retina. Take full precautions especially if your equipment permits a view of the sun through the main imaging lens as in a single or twin lens reflex camera or in certairl zoom lenses or telescopes equipped for reflex viewing. In viewing or taking photos of either the total or the partial eclipse, according to Keene, it is well to remember this rhyme, \Filter nearest the sky to protect eye.\ This means in practice that an adequate neutral density f':llter must be in front of any and all optics, whether they be telescope, lens, finder, eyeglasses, or binoculars. Any ot•her position of the filter in the system, such as between the. camera finder and the eye, would be hazardous. When photographic exposures are being made, a non-diffusing 5.0 to 6.0 filer, such as Kodak Wratten Neutral Density Filter, should be used over the camera lens. · Be sure not to view the sun through this photographic filer, use it for exposure purposes only. As for cameras and exposures, Keene offers the following tips: Almost any camera may be used to photograph the eclipse. With a simple camera usirlg 126, 127 or 35mm film, the image would be quite small, perhaps one-half the thickness of a dime in diameter. If you use a movie camera, set it firmly on a tripod and shoot short bursts of six or eight frames. Press and release smoothly, do not punch the button. This should be repeated without moving the camera -- about every two or three minutes. If done correctly, the sun will appear to move across the screen in a few minutes of viewing time, blacken out during the eclipse, and then come back out the other side. For cameras with zoor:n or telephoto lenses, use your longest focal length avail2ble or the strongest telephoto position of the zoom. Be sure that filter materiaJ for photographic exposure: is placed over the lens. If you must look through your • finder, use the other fllter (metallic silver) in fron1 of the finder. Of course, if you do not have a separate viewfinder or viewing lens but u se a single lens reflex camera, never use the viewing system unless the metallic silver (viewing) filter Ls in front of the lens. After the camera is posi1ioned and the sun~s image properly framed, the m·etallic filter must be removed and the taking. filter inserted in its place. BE SURE NOT TO VIEW THE SUN THROUGH IHIS FILTER. USE IT FOR EXPOSURE PURPOSES ONLY!! Shield the c:amera lens from the direct rc~ys of the sun with a suitable object while performing this cllange. If you are using a camera with a focal place shutter, be sure that you do not point the lens at the sun without using a fllter, as the shutter curtain will be burned. THE RIGHT PERSON IN THE RIGHT CAREER This is more than our Motto· it' sour Promise· to you. We're constantly in contact with the Natiion's most Progressive Firms and we know where tAe openings are both locally & na1ionally. Stop in at our modern offices. We're here to help you. Most positions are fee paid. ZELL:\IER'S NO.RG'E LAUNDRY AND CL.EA-NING VILLAGE AT 1559 VANVRANKEN AVE. let Hottie Street) DRY CLEANIN<; WASHERS 8 Lbs. . . . . $2.00 12 Lb ..... _ .. __ .•. 30· 4 lb. Min. . . $1.00 20 Lb. _ ·: ....... . _ ·. 25 DRYERS 30 Lb ......... ·~: .. 50 10 Min....... . 10 Open Moil.·Fri·. 8 A.M. to 9 P,ryl . .'sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.'M. · · Closed Sundays ' · ' If .YOU HAVE NEVER HAl> NORGE DRY C:LEANING DONE' WE CA:-l I!.E1 YOU WJU ~~ AMAZE,D • , ' i I

PAGE4 Improving Tracksters Top Engineers:, 56-45 The varsity track team belatedly celebrated Union's 175th anniversary with a convincing 56-45 win ov,er the R.P.l. cindermen. The victory was yet another indication that the Garnet track fortunes are on the rebound from years of futility. Jascszak, Rich Star As usual, the Saturday meet was highlighted by the stellar performances of sophomores Rich Jascszak and Mike Rich. All-American Jascszak, the iron man on the Cutchmen squad, was involved in two victories. The so ph speedster hulled his way to a 1 : 15.8 triumph in the 600 yard dash and anchored the mile relay team to an easy 3:39 ftrst place spot. High jumper Rich was also superb, clearing 6'4\. His absence in the upcoming outdoor season could hurt the Garnet unless freshmen Ed Rawley, who captured a second Saturday, can step into Rich's shoes. Shot, Hurdles Help Fine efforts in the shot put and hurldes further helped to fashion the victory. The weight event was highlighted by Dick Thickens 43' 3\ win and Tom Stillings second place ftnish, while Ed Rossi :tnd Rawley did well in fmishing one and three, respectively, in the 55 yard high hurdles. The distance runners, led by Tim McCabe, Paul Forbes, and Bryant Moeckel, also played an important role in the contest. Frosh McCabe proved his mettle in the 1000 yard run by making up m0re than 20 yards and fmally passing the eventual third place fmisher, J ob.n Braham. McCabe's time, 2:26.5, was a fine showing on the relatively slow Union track. Forbes and junior Joe Burgess copped the second and third positions in the one mile run. Forbes was clocked in 4:37.5 in the grueling event, while Burgess recorded a lifetime indoor best of 4:40.5. In the t\vo mile run, Moeckel finished second to R.P .I.'s great distance rullfler, Bill Pollock. The bearded Moeckel was timed in 10:06.2 for the 20-lap race. Returns to Form The Gamet literally ran away with the two-mile relay. Greg Hamlin, Mark Burdelle, Terry McManus, and Tim McCabe strided to an 8:24 victory. McManus, returning to the form that made him a frosh sensation here two years ago, had the fastest leg on the team, a 2:03.8. Besides J ascszak, the other victorious relay team, the one mile squad, was composed of Pete Ericson, Alan Prysunka, and Steve Wood. Wood was also a third place fmisher in the 600 yard event. Gray Watkins, Steve Andreski, and Bruce Cobb added valuable points to the Gamet cause. Andreski and Cobb were one-two, respectively, in the sprints, while Watkins sailed to a second place in the pole vault. Travel to Cortland The cindermen plan to travel to Cortland this Saturday to compete in the invitational track meet sponsored by the state school. J ascszak and Rich will be among the favorites in their respective events. MARCH 3, 1970 Hoop Wins In Schmid Finale By MARKSHUGOLL Departing basketball coa~h Chris Schmid was given a fittmg send off by his Union basketball teani on Saturday uight, as the Dutchmen r au ted visiting Williams College, 89-71, in their season frnale. The win was Union's :fust ·over the Ephmen since 1957, and raised the Garnet's frnahecord to 7-15. Coach Schmid announced his retirement as head basketball coach last month, after three years at theb.elm of 1he varsity. He rallied. his team for four wins in its last six ~ames, including three in a row at home. \1 couldn't have asked · for a better departure,\ Schmid said. Against Williams, the Garnet led for m0st of the first half, opening up an eight point bulge at one point. However, they needed two free throws by Rit Gallucci at the buzzer to gain a 39-38 halttime lead. The game remained close th.Iough the opening moments of the second half. Then, with Union in front 48-46, Jim Tedisco led a 1603 tear that opened up the margin to 64-49. Two mi.JJ.utes later, Rein Eichinger pumped for seven straight points, and the Garnet were in «:ommand by twenty. Williams tried desperately to get back into the ballgame bu1 was plagued by extremely po()r shooting. 1'he Ephem RUGBY There will be a very important meeting of the Hugby Club on Monday, IVIarch 9 in SS 016 at 7:00 P.M. All players who are pia nning to play this spring are required to attend. Anyone else seriously interested in :playing this spring is also urged to attend. hit on only 28.7 percent of their shots, while the Garnet were connecting at a 43.7 per cent clip. The smaller Dutchmen also outrebounded Williams 63-62. Super-Soph Tedisco ended his flrst varsity season by scoring 35 points and setting every Union College and Memorial Fieldhouse scoring record. His performance versus Williams gave him 652 points for the year and an average of 29.6 per game--both school marks. Tedisco's top offensive evening of the year Gam,e against Utica, when he hit for 49 points, a Union and Capital city colleges single game record. Saturday night also saw sophomore Eichinger turn in his finest performance of the year, as he scored 20 points and hauled in thirteen rebounds. Gallucci fmished with eight points and 19 rebounds, while Dave Shames added 14 points. All will return next vear. Led by Tedisco the Garnet. as a team 'llroke every Unioif scoring mark in the books The Dutchmen scored 1;718 points for a 78.1 average, both college records, while their 666 fteld goals and 386 free throws also set new marks. The freshman team slipped below the .500 mark, bowing to the WUliams freshmen, 92-76, in .Saturday's preliminary game. Mike Doyle led the quintet with 19 points, followed by John Van Benschoten with 17, Geoff Walker with 16, and Jim Bolz with 11. The yearlings close out their campaign against an extremely tall and talented R0ckwood Academy team this evening. Rockwood is a prep-scl_lool powerhouse, compiling a 13-1 record while playing a schedule of junior colleges and freshmen teams. LOVe has.a new ring toit. . TURO Swimmers Win, Finish 5 4 1 ~Carvea the LOve Ring Tli people. By BRUCE GARBER Capturing all but two events, the Garnet mermen dornolished Trinity at home Saturday, to wrap up their regular season with a 5-4-1 record. The score, 54-45, was not a good measure of the S).lperlative Dutchmen efforts, for coach Robert MacMurray gave away points after the win was secured. With wins in eight of the ten individual events, the team's momentun was unbelievable, with everyone sharing in the spoils. Garnet first-place winners were Burt Y ankiver in the 1000 yard freestyle, Dave Seward in the 50 free, Mike Horwath in the 200 free (2:00.00 seconds), and Steve Hill in a hard fought individual medley. After John Ludwig took the diving, Bob Szatrowski TEACHERS NEEDED Teaching opportunities for beginning and experienced candidates in private schools coast to coast. Education courses not required. Write. SCHOOL SERVICE BUREAU Post Office Box 27BK Windsor, Connecticut 00095 Tel: 203 · 688·6409 won the 200 butterfly, Gary Nceedel took the 200 backstroke, and Jon Horwath captured five points in the 200 breaststroke. HOME TYPING AND S E C R E T A R.l A L SERVICE 377·6053 Rates: 30c per page for .typing · $2.00 per hour for dictation Free: corrections cc, minor It's a love ring. Because you are in love you'll want a ring that says love in every way. From the exciting cut of its diamond to the graceful elegance of its setting. Such a ring is a Love Ring from ArtCarved. Do come see our ArtCarved collection soon. Use Your Master Charge Card ·Maurice B. Graubart & Sons (Schenectady's famous diamond shop for 3 generations) 166Jay St. Three Union Graduates in Family • ie v Be E11 ByP \Th not gu: overtht goverm an atte un iq1 recogt Bettleb lecture. packed Chapel ''Th the wic modet ado lese caused future today'~ Citi.J Bloon Libera1 leader the l EconOJ who suicide that lil rebels • Chica \d es1 themsc world won't and sel them. bel on~ angry bringiJ Then create least j feelw] Be· lshml wan de Dick i type c and d and b there ' by a c This

will the the set eoff out an ted earn is a nior .. • e VOLUME, 99 NO. 44 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, MARCH 6,1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS CAC Proposes New Major Built Around Central Idea Comp Ed Meeting yesterday interdepartmental major, In other action the afternoon, the Curricular possibly to urban studies, committee passed on the A f fa i r s C o m m i t t e e Black studies, or the atomic report of the Comprehensive recommended to the four age. According to the Education Board (see article divisions and the faculty pFoposal the Theme of the this page for details) without council a program permitting students academic pursuits recommendation. majors to be organized would be treated on his It was the sense of the around a specific theme in transcript in the same manner committee that the report addition to those already as the major field is now. No was· conclusive enough in its established in the traditional action can be taken on the own right to be considered disciplines. proposal this term but those without recommendation According to Associate interested in expressing their from the Curricular Affairs Professor of English and opinion should see Dean Committee. s p o k e s m a n for t h e Palmer. committee, Samson Ullmann, Bettleheim Calls Seven Emotionally Immature a student with the advice and consent of his faculty advisor would be allowed, no later than the first term of his junior year, to structure his academic program around a central idea. Senate Kills Calendar Urges More Security By PTER J. WE INGOLD \The Chicago Seven are not guilty of a conspiracy to overthrow the United States government, but are guilty of an attempt to have their own unique personalities recognized,\ said Bruno Bettleheim, Ichabod Spencer lecturer in Psychology, to a packed house in Memorial Chapel last night. \The underlying cause for the widespread appearance of modern dissent among adolescents is an alienation caused by the feeling that the future holds no place for today's youth.\ Citing the case of Marshal Bloom, founder of the Liberation News Service and leader of student unrest at the London School of Economics several years ago, who recently committed suicide, Bettleheirn noted that like so many adolescent rebels Bloom and some of the Chicago Seven are in ''de sperate search for themselves and hate the world because the world won't give them self-worth and self-respect. It won't give them. in short, a feeling of belonging. The rebels are first angry at the existing order for bringing them this feeling. Then they feel a desire to create external chaos to at least match the chaos they feel within themselves.\ Bettleheim noted that Ishmael, the adolescent wanderer in Melville's, Moby Dick is a model of a fanner type of youth. The alienation and desire to use \a pistol and ball\ on someone were there b.J.lt they were balanced by a deep sense of morality. This morality has been Requirements replaced, he said, by a morality which says that it is good to create social mayhem. Whether, as in Bloom's case through suicide, or in the rioters' case, through homicide, the urge of the adolescent is still to use the \pistol and ball\. In Melville's day the youth could get out and explore the world, find himself, and then return and help make a better society: Minimum requirements for such a program would include at least twelve courses related to the central theme, the regular total of 36 courses, com p e ds, fulfilling the language requirement, and a Comprehensive Exam or Senior Project where deemed appropriate. By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JRt. h h 1 e sc oo· year However, the causes of student unrest are not ',the Continued on Page 3 The proposal which must now go through debate in division meetings and faces consideration by the faculty council would, in the words of Professor Ullmann, \allow the student to go beyond the Comp Ed Report . The Student Senate voted to recommend the defeat of a proposed calendar change, and passed a resolution urging tighter security for student property at its meeting Tuesday night. Action was . also taken on two proposed amendments to the Senate's constitution. A poll of living units by Senators representing 925 students produced a vote of 331-500-94 against beginning UTP.~~~~!.a~o~o~{l,~~~~~t~u~!s~c~~~ Education Board today away from their major fields, applying these guidelines, but released its report on Union's Comp .. Ed. requirements will at the. sa~e time, said t~at Comprehensive Education be retam~d. . the gmde~es are to provtde Program. The 60-page report Requuements will be for a maxtmum of freedom. includes a redefinition of the altered, though. Freshmen goals of Union's Comp. Ed. will still be required to take Program and a summation of C omp. Ed. 10 and 11. the co~rse structures and Upperclassmen, however, will guidelines to be applied in the be required to take six terms future. of Comp. Ed. in any four of Development and change five course groups. The within the Comp. Ed. system course groups will be the had obscured the principles present Senior Disputed and objectives of Questions Courses, the Comprehensive Education, project courses, courses in the the report said. In Arts, and two option groups, redefinition, the report stated one each in Centers I and II. that Comp. Ed. is to . Guidelines for the future introduce a \broading\ are to insure that the courses element into the education of provide an active learning Union students, with \the situation, a situation w~ere active participation of the the student learns by domg; student in the learning and that Professors are experience\beingstressed. provided with cours~ Another goal is the break structures that best fit theiFt down of the artificiality of special talents. The Comp .. the separation of the various Ed. Board expressed a ftelds ofstudy. Since students realization of the danger of Concordiensis will publish once next week, the tenth week of classes. The final number for Winter Term will appear Wednesday evening, March 11th. The first issue of Spring Term will appear on the evening of April 4th. at the end of the first week of the term. At the end of this term the Conco~dy staff will have produced forty-six issues in its current volume. At this pace the staff will easily beat last ,vears output of fifty·two. approximately two weeks earlier in September. Under this proposal, the Fall term would end at Thanksgiving and be followed by a vacation until the beginning of the Winter term after New Years'. The Winter and Spring term calendars would no be changed. A motion to recommend the defeat of this calendar change passed overwhelmingly. This proposal is expected to come before a future faculty meeting. Citing \the increasing number of robberies on campus, destruction artd. abuse of school property, and unnecessary noise in the dormitories\ and noting that \many of the aforementioned problems are caused by persons not affiliated with Union College\ the resolution requesting more protection from theft for student property was carried unanimously. The resident advisors (R.A's) and others with master keys to student rooms to restrict and carefully supervise the use and. circulation of those keys to cut down on thefts from student rooms. R.A.'s and other students were urged to ask any \outsiders\ found in the dormitory, without invitation, to leave immediately. The resolution further requested the Administration to \draft a letter to local schools asking them to inform their students that Union College in general and Continued on Page 3

COMPED The Comprehensive Educatiort Board and Erofessor Olton, director of the program, have presented us witb a well thought out series of revisions and adaptations to the .cunent Comp Ed program. In our opinion, though, the ptoblem with:Comp Ed is most essentially with the conduct and ,content of the courses themselves. · ,.. . The report specifically mentions that it is hard to find facalty appropriate to the two term project of the Junior Year and states that the sections of the sophomore and senior year options are overcrowded. Both of these things are painfully and obviously true. It is this fact which has the most direct bearing on how well courses come off and thus how successful the program is. While in general the revisions for the four year program are good, we feel that there should be more active and p11blic inquiry into the quality of each individ1:1al course. The Camp Ed board has made significartt advances in its open-rnindedconsideration of individual projects for Camp Ed credit and sh&hould move eve~ more enthusiastically into this area. Here ag2in, though, th1s increased freedom should be accompanied by adequate and consistent sapervision of the program of study. Tl1is supervision sho11ld also extend into survey of the options co\lrse. · To begin with, some limitation on course size mast be made and enforced for these courses. Secondly, more courses must be designed, and the better faculty assigned to teach them. In these courses, a faculty member has a chance to ruove outside ~s normal teaching routine and immerse himself and his students m something that interests him. Such an opportunity shoald not be passed up, especially if this leads to smaller~ more numerous semi-formal seminars replacing the large lecture style of most of the Comp Eds. The most pressing problem in this regard is the immediate increase in the number of options. Classes of fifty or sixty merely serve to defeat the purpose of a Comp Ed. These classes are, in size, so out of line with other courses taken by students that they tend to view the courses with less regard and enthusiasm than their other courses. The students' view of Comp Ed, as with class size, also needs improvement. Too often students will take Comp Ed as a \gut\, do little work, and merely consider the option to be a mildly academic gesture made in salute to degree requirements. Perhaps this attitude would change if courses were smaller and hopefully more personal. In any case, the public image of Camp Ed should be a matter of great concern. If Comp Ed is to .live up to its lofty goals and thus be the integral part of undergraduate education it is intended to be, steps must be taken to improve it course by course, through examination of the conduct of the options, decreasing class size and perhaps even encoaraging the class proced~:~re of Camp Ed to be less conventional than in other courses. Revision of the entire structure is more than welcomed, but we implore this revision not to stop here. As 'We have stated, the options courses must be increased in number, class size decreased, and courses carefully scrutinized and evaluated by the Comp Ed Board. Furthermore, the Committee should continue to move in the direction of individual and group study for Camp Ed credit, but should certainly not neglect evaluation of the formal courses either. Camp Ed has been an ocassionally strong educational force in the past, and it is our hope that the discussion and legislation following this new report will pave the way f()r Camp Ed to the. important, vital and respected part of the curriculum that it can be .... ·• . ~IC:t'----------, .;j., .... )~ <nnnrnr ~i')~ ~trns.tg 'o .? .• ~ ,~L\£ .. ~~,., Published Tuesday and Friday Ed1tor1al Offi-ce Old Gym, durmg the School year by rhe U n1on .College F-ubhcat•on S1udent Body of'\ Un•on Oif•ce. V'\lt\.ttehurs1 Prmung & College. Schenect.>dv. \'Y. Bindong Co. Inc 416 418 Nat tonal· Advert'1s1ng Ftfth Ave, Troy, 2354450 Reprosentatave .N-ataonal E.ntered 1n the Schenectad\1 E duca1tonal Advertlstng Post Ofi1ce a5 Second Class Service, Inc., College Matl Ms-tler Subscr~ptton 20 Publishers Representati'VB 360 cents a COPV, $6 a year Lexington Ave11ue. N.Y .C.- delivered anywhere tn the l)nlled StatEs Henry G. Fem William Ouzer Editors-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold ............... Prfa1Ulgiilg Editor Jeff Birn . . . . ................. Bt~siness Manager William J. Holleran ................ Sports Editor Jody Saslow ................ Photograpl7.y Editor M. Paul Andrews ............ Cont7ihuting Editor Richard Patterson ............ Conuihuting Editor Neil S. Kramer ................. Erlitof Emeritus Staff: Robert A. Levine, Danny Shocket, David Uguccioni, Louis Snitkoff. Tony Fagt1; Doug Wong, M. Grossman, Mike Gottlieb, John Rarrigan, Peter Bickerman, Kevin Roberts, Michelle Vottis, Lloyd Birns, Michael Swirsky, Neil Green, Douglas Tosh, George Kaplan, Charles Long, Mark Shuroll, Greg Hamlin, Mike Humber, Dennis Alsofrom, Stu Moss, Bruce Garber, Hank Levine, Dave Conrey> Doug Binder. To The Editors: The mail service Davidson is disgraceful. for Lawrence Schek '71 To The Editors: With bloodshot in my eyes and an EngHsh term paper only half-written and due tomorrow I would lil(e to , . ' reply to John Witherspoon s letter of March 3. Mr. Witherspoon asks, if a flag is only a flag, then why do kids make clothes out of it, and why do I defend them for having done so? The answer, quite simply, is that being a kid does not, unfortunately, make one automatically privy to the insight that a flag is but a piece of cloth and is, therefore, meaningless. They're still playing with symbols, the same as the adults--a fact I noted in the final paragraph of the column in question (indeed, it was the whole point of the column), but this paragraph was separated from the others by a double space, so I can understand how it might have escaped Mr. Witherspoon's attention. I agree with Mr. Witherspoon that such. displays of the flag are vague and non-constructive, but I defend those who engage in them because ii: is not soml;!thing one should suffer incarceration for. A couple of other points: Mr. Witherspoon says I MARCH 6, 1970 question the greatness of America. That is wrong: America is the richest, most powerful, and, therefore, potelltiaHy the most benewlent land-mass on this planet. If he will look closely at where I placed the parenthetical qB-estion mark, he will see I am not questioning whether America is great, but whether it is ours. Nixon, Agnew, Reagan, et. al., seem to be sor:l of reluctant to let the People play with it. Second: As long as we PVE Club Needs Help In Its Buy A Tree Campaign fight against the People's struggle in Vietnam, as long as Julius Hoffman sits on a court bench, as long as Fred Hampton's blood remains spattered on his bedroom wall, as long as Southern (and Northern) senators get Nixon to soft-pedal integration of schools, as long as newsmen are frightened to tell the People everything they know, as long as the phone company has my line tapped, as long as Union College lives in fear of a drug bust, and as long as capitalist exploiters befoul our air water land and lives, then, Mr. Witherspoon, it is America with a k and there is jast no way of getting around it. Editors' Note: The following is a statement issued yesterday by the officers of the PYE Club: The Schenectady Pt:eserve Your Environment Club desperately needs your help. Using the time tested \one-at-a-time\ organization theory, the PYE Club has established committees devoted to single real goals. Most of these committees are understaffed, and all of them worthy of Union students' attention. The Bridgehead Program in particular needs help. This program, initiated by Do aglas Williams, a student at S.U.N.Y.A., Kimball Hull, a student at Union College, and Dr. Carl George, a professor of Biology at Union College, has as its theme the \Buy-A· Tree\ campaign. With an appealing twist the Bridgehead Program seeks to 1,mite students selling and businessmen buying something we all need more of--TREES. The money from the \Buy-A-Tree\ campaign will be used to help the nature Conservancy purchase a tract ofland (with trees on it!) in the tri-cities area. Under the protective care of the Nature Conservancy this tract of land will serve to guarantee the people of Schenectady, Troy, and Albany the joy of at least a mocicum of unspoiled land in future years. If you want to channel your concern for the Professional Typing Ser,ice t BM Setectnc Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. Experienced in typing Doctoral. theses. Reasonable rates. Dependab I e. Call 489-6978 any time. environment into productive action; if you want to establish ties with the business community, alerting them to the environmental crisis; if you want to test your skills as a fund raiser (or know that you have alrady got them), please contact Kim Hull, 971 Balltown Rd., telephone 393-3941. All power to the People, Ray Krise, Jr. \Pass-Fail\ Procedures Students may now designate their spring term \Pass- Fail\ elective, if any, by completing a form in the Offil;e of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building. Designation of a course for \Pass-Fail\ grading may be accomplished in the Alumni Gymnasium during the first week of classes, too. As previously announced, spring term Registration will take place in the gym. Students are reminded that only an elective course may be taken \Pass-Fail.\ Furthermore, a course should be designated \Pass-Fail\ only after the student is certain he will take the course. Students will be expected to surrender their \acknowledged\ copy of a \Pass-Fail\ request should they decide to revoke the request prior to the end of the first week of classes. DOUGLAS BOSTONIAN * BATES • WALL-STREETER HUSH PUPPIES* WALK,OVER • SEBAGOMOCS MANSFIELD • SNOW& AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR 4-8577 319 State Street Schenectady, N, Y. S1 OFF PURCHASE 0 F SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD ~EWEST LU~CH 715 Albany Street Specializing: - MOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICI1ES - f.AKE·OUT ORDERS - Union Student!5 Favorite Spot - I Serving Schenectcdy Since 1921 ) Mon.·Th.,os. 7 A.M.-2 A.M. Fri.-Sot. 7 A.M,-4 A.M. Sun. 9 A.M.-I A.M. .I ~I '· ' ' ... MARCH 6,1970 Bettleheim Continued from Page 1 War in Vietnam, m the black power struggle, or pollution,\ said Bettlreheim, but a widespread discontent among western youth., especially, but among all industrialized and technological societies, because of the feeling that rather than there being no futUJe for tll.em, .there is a future which has no place for them. In a wor-ld of computers man will be needed only to tend the machines but not as a human.\ Bettleheim also cited the length of time that children are forced to go to school and are denied mature responsibility, is contributing to their frustration. Adulthood must be postponed beyond what is Announcement--- AppHc.ations for member ill the Gatesmen 0 rgan iza,tion are now available ill the admissions office. Ally FRESHMAN who is interested in involvement ill the admissions process, tour giving, interviewing etc., is urged to appi'J. ApplicatiollS are due to the far-seeing Admissions Office by Wednesday, March 12th. normal in a;fl pre-technological societies. There are no longer any frontiers to conquer, any oceans to cross. There is only college. Aild school being as long as it is only becomes a rat race with no ,end in sight. Th;is is, of course, accentuated by the feeling that all of the striving is in vain anyway, he said. _Universities, and colleges have expanded without taking precautions against anonymity of students, he said, th·erefore only contributing to the alienation of youth. As Bettleheim quoted Jerry Goodman, \Who the hell wants to make it in America anymore.\ Bettleheim said that \the leaders of the student unrest were generally from enlightened upper-middle class parents who believed in letting their children have their own way. If a child plays cops and robber when~ he's eight he's going to plar for real when he is twenty. It i!l al:right to discharge emotion through actions without rational thought. many children are led to feel by the attitudes of their laK parents.\ As a remedy for the unrest Bettleheirn proposed that colleges, universities and. especially high schools st OJ> enlarging and try to create a more intimate atmosphere between student and teacher in order that \every child will be recognized as a person.\ - Blith,er I . ' On Thursday, March 26th, a Maundy Thursday service in Memorial Chapel will be conducted by the Episcopal parishes of Schenectady. The service will be girl at~ :00 p.m. and will last for an hour, more orless. There will be a meeting of the sailing club on Wed. March 11. All those interested irl intercollegiate racing this spring should attend. Tlte meeting will be held in SS 115 at 4:30 p.m. The Schenectady Post Office runs its special delivery service from 7:00 a.m. to 11 :00 J> .m. They are frequently plagued by -leletters., addressed to students on campus, which are poorly addressed. Specifically, many letters indicate a box number, but not the room number or living unit. The box number alone is generally of no use in the case of a Special Delivery letter. and when it alone is give the letter will most probably get no further th!ln the Post Office Bulding to await its claimant. Whene~er possible, a student expecting a special delivery letter should be sure the person sending it includes the worn number and living unit in the address. Mrs. Daniel Button will be present for an informal discussion of \Students or lobbyists; the practical aspects\ with the PYE Club Monday March 9, 1970 4:30- SS 110- all are welcome. Phon• 372-0528 PARK PIZZERIA FR!iE DELIVERY lt~lian Grinders ; Our Specialty Behind .Davidson Hall - One Block from the Campus 25 Park Place Schenectady, N.Y. Kuntsler By RICHARD E. PATTERSON, JR. heartily subs( but most have and destroyed An overflow crowd at Albany State University heard William Kunstler, chief defense counsel for the \Chicago 7\ accuse the Nixon administration of attempting to destroy \a revolutionary youth culture; a new approach by young men and women to the American Way of Life.\ Kuntsler, recently serrtenced to 4 1/2 years in prison for contempt of court daring the Chicago conspiracy trial, told the crowd in the University gymnasium that the new youth movement was aimed at \realizing whatever goals the country was founded on. Some were good, and 1 Pre The Chica! d em,o n st r a Democratic 1968 came t protect \a ra, was eroding bodies of all population, a as incompreh< indecent and a country tha a high stand and, he sai recognition \revyouth cui Decrying him subve accused c: Richard Dale Senate Continued (rom paKe 1 dormitories in particular are private property and that entering them without invitation is trespassing.\ The campus security foJce, the resolution noted, should \be more diligent in protecting the students' rights by conscientiously guarding the college against youthful trepassers.\ It was noted at th.e meeting that the security force has been expanded from 6 to 10 men this year. During the discussion of the rash of robberies on campus this year, various senators expressed the desire that the Administration issue a statement of college policy and insurance responsibilities regarding the theft of student property. An arne Senates' co would auo .. Student Be take office i election in approved b~ second pro1 that woul executive c« Student Be approve the all student to review b· defeated. · must be two-thirds r senators pre two consecl order to tak• Allegheny Airl helps you bee: the waiting gc And saves you up to 33%%. Allegheny's Young Adult Card whenever you want to (even he and still get advance reservatic If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Only $5.00 for all of i 970. Allegheny Air Wehavealo1

r{ I I I PAGE4 MARCH 6, 1970 The following is a sample of the letter which must be signed anq returned if a senior does not wish to pay the senior tax . . To the Members af the Senior Class In previous years the Senior Class has acquired funds through the successful promotion of social entertainment on major college weekends. However, this year the Social Committee, financed by the Student Tax Committee, has assumed responsibility for conducting these social affairs. The proceeds from these weekends have been rechanneled back inta the Social Committee's budget, thus depriving the four classes of a practical means of acquiring funds. A·t present, the Senior Class t~easury contains approximately ten dollars. It is imperative that we acquire funds if we are to fulfill the responsibilities of graduation. Krise Finds Happiness At Hartford'.s Winter Weekend Our responsiblities for graduation include 1) senior class gift, and 2) class day exercises, both of which wer.e discussed in a previous .letter published in the Concordiensis. For the Senior Class gift we propose to establish a memorial fund for the late John Kelleher, who died in an automobile accident two years age. Class day exercises will include the final gathering of the Senior class in Jackson's gardens. However, the specific arrangements concerning the Senior class gift and class day exercises will be made final in a class meeting to be held no later than the second week of the Spring term. In order to raise the funds necessary to execute these obligations, we propose to levy a 5 dollar senior tax, which will be collected at Spring term registation. In past years, for various reasons, the Senior tax has produced some discontent among the students against whom the tax was levied. The officers of the Senior Class, as well as President Martin, feel that the tax is a nece~ary, and valid means of acquiring these funds. However, we realize that some seniors, feeling that the class gift and class day exercises are not representative of their interests and feelings about Union College, may not wish to contribute. Any senior who does not wish the senior tax of 5 dollars to be levied against him at Spring term registration must return this letter, with his signature, to Mrs. Marra's office in Student Activities no later than noon, Monday March 9th. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Peter Garrison President Jeff South Treasurer 1 spent some time at the U niverstiy of Hartford last weekend, and if I spend any morere there 1 just might transfer, no doubt to the delight of some (from both schools). It's a nice Hew place where the cafeteria is open all day long and the girls give Skidmore a run for their money--but without the bitch iness/ sno tine ss/what- everness. It has 3500 students, yet it didn't \feel\ any larger than Union--ever- ybody knew everybody else. The day of the small snob school is passed and buried, guys. It was U-Ha (that's what they call themselves) Winter Weekend, and believe me, when they say weekend, they mean it. Saturday night they had Jerry Jeff Walker, who has wit, style, charm, and d e s.e r v e s a 1 o t more recognition than what he's been getting. Sunday afternoon they had James Taylor, who is a heroin fiend but makes great music and has one son, \l.m a Steamroller, Baby,\ that cuts to pieces white shuck \blues\ groups like Rare Earth or Led Zeppelin. And they also had Ten Years After, who play Bogota's Hoop Team Shows Its Tough ''UCLA\ Defense the best hard rock of anybody since Cream. I was sitting about ten feet (no lie) away from their amps, hadn't had any dope all day, and was stoned out of my skull. I'll never know why kids take dope when they go to see a group like Ten Years After. All they do is sit there listlessly. The music was made to make you .feel it, to make you move, and yet these cats sit there as it they were in a classroom, not even dancing. I really don't understand ... As the winter season in Schenectady drags on, the Union (Colombia) basketball season is off to a dazzling start. PI ayer-coach Mark Merson is highly enthusiastic about the season and attributes his team's early success to determination, desire, and the strict training rules he has imposed on the team. The Union (Colombia) quintet made its debut February 6th on the Nueva Granada court. Due to the altitude (9000 ft.) and the lack of practice (none) the cagers fell to the Nueva Granada \A\ team in the last three seconds 72-71. The following Tuesday the hoopsters bounced back and trounced Nueva Granada's faculty 67-50. With only one day's rest the fearless five challenged a team from Los Andes University. The game, played under the lights and drizzle of the Licea Fraces court, was quickly decided. Moving more as a unit and with better stamina the Bogota Dutchmen took an early ten-point lead. Led by the hot hands of Coach Merson, Rick Sloan, Andy Sherman, and Kenny Berkowitz, they continued to dominate the play even when confronted with a tough man-to-man full court press. The score-keeper ran out of. chalk but conceded that the Garnet had scored two points to Granada's every one. Laxman Louis Liebhaber and Hockey Club netminder Rich Older added unorthodox but often effective play and managed to score ten points between them. Coach Merson is confident that the frightening UCLA-type defense and the high-scoring Phi Sigma Delta offense will keep the Colombia Garnet on the winning track. Friday night there was somebody special. She was a girl named Melanie, and those .Concert Here Tues. I '- I close the program with Persichetti's Symphony, No. 6. Robert Gosselink will conduct both the orchestra and the Wind Ensemble. An ensemble concert will be given in Memorial Chapel, Tuesday, March 10, at 8:30 P.M. The Brass Choir will open the program, with works by Purcell and Hindemith. Next, Edward Gray, a sophomore, will play the Bach Double Violin Concerto, with Merri Decker, accompanied by the String Ensemble of the Northeastern New York Student Orchestra. Professor Hugh Allen Wilson will be at the Harpsichord and Marianne Pashler, the orchestra's string coach, will conduct. Following this, the full orchestra will perform Cimarosa's overture to \The Secret Marriage.\ The Wind Ensemble will Pennel Esso Service Nott Street Corner Of Van Vranken of you who made it to Woodstock or Boston .three weeks ago know who she is, but it was a new introduction for me.She is beautiful. very soft and childlike: the kind of girl you throw yourself in front of rather than oJJ top of. Those of us who chose to listen snuggled up close on our butts to the stage, ju$t like we Vv ere in her house or something. But there were some who had come just to drink (God knows why) and they stayed in the back and talked and laughed and Melanie tried to sin?; her songs, tried to make love to us with her voice, tried to but couldn't outmatch the strident din from the back, and when she left she was crying. Almost all of us .follow~d her back to her dressing room, trying to let her know that we loved her and knew how her felt, and ten or so of us even got tluough the door to see her--because she loves to play for peop'le in her dressing room-'before the cops stood in front of the door and said you can't go iR there. When you know it's for keeps All your sharing, all your special memories have grown into a precious and enduring love. Happily, these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a choice selection of many lovely styles. He's listed in the yellow pages under \Jewelrus.\ -.:;-- ,.-.,. ~GISTERED k ..L\-..S2...S2.}2 sa. e IE DIAMOND Rl NGS RoniJ'> e• to .• i hl '>hOW df\O I F ,.,m $100 •, $ · n.ooo ®lrtlde Mark l'lpg A.H P,.•dC ... p•H'f '\( f'>l 18Q] I HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I I Please seod new 20 page booklet.' How To Plan Your Engagement and Weddint.J\ and new 12 page, full color folder. bolh for only 25c. Also, how can 'I obtain 1 the beauLiul 44 page Bride's ~eepsake Book at half price? f. 09 I N•m•----------------------- 1 I Addrt-5•---------------------- 1 City Co.------- 1 1 State Z•P----- 1 KEEPSAKE DIAMON[) RIN~·S, BOX 90. SYRACUSE, NEW :YORK 13201 L------~-----------~-----------

. - PAGE 5 ]ones Hails tlw Colp!Jrale Concept of Foreign Policy By PETER BECKERMAN Jones said that there is a need to establish international guidelines concerning the treatment of foreign investment. He favors minimum possible restraints on a free world market. In addition, Jones called for \alternatives to unbridled national sovereignty,\ meaning such organizations as the European Common Market. Responding to a question from the audience, Jones denied the charge that big business plays a direct role in formulating U. S. foreign policy. However, he added that corporations such as Standard Oil do not hesitate making their views known to the government. MARCH 6,1970 I 'Blither II ! . i CongFessman Richard D. McCarthy, Domocrat 39th District, New York, who has worked on pollution and written on chemical and biological warfare. and is a candidate for U.S. Senator will be speaking to the Mohawk Association of Scientists and Engineers on Friday, March 13, at 8 p.m. in SS 016, on \Prospects for a Sensible Chemical- Biological Warfare policy.\ i This meeting is open to the public and all are invited to attend. Announcement of Summer Jobs Mr. David Jones, Treasurer b f The Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, spoke Tuesday night on the question of large American corporations and their effect on U.S. foreign policy. His speech was sponsored by the International Relations Club as part of its series entitled \Alternatives to American Foreign Policy.\ Mr. Jones praised the corporate concept, claiming that it has contributed greatly to the achievement of our affluent society. He asserted that the innate advantages of corporations such as perpetual life and increased specializations, result in more efficient management. Pucksters Lose Twice sprawling netminder and tucked it into the cage. Goss has totaled five points, on three goals and two assists, in just two games. Several Union College men will be hired to work this summer in programs .of recreation and education sponsored by Emmaus House i n A t 1 a n t a , G e o r gi a. Involvement in these organizational activities will be in addition to . daily leadership in recreation and/or education. Emmaus House, the base of these activities, is located in one of Atlanta's several impoverished, predominantly black ghettos. However, Jones mentioned that large international corporations have their own special types of problems. One of the major problems f-aced by an organization such as Standard Oil, is the possibility of conflict with foreign nations regarding the status of foreign corporate afftliates. In Jones' words, Standard Oil has come close to \being tossed out of a couple of countries.\ He continued by stating that \it is necessary for multinational companies to understand cultural and political trends within the nation in which they are involved.\ In Jones' terms, \this cooperation includes working with whatever government is in power at the time, whether democratic or otherwise.\ Continued from Fage 6 Lenox capitalized on Union's third period letdown to score their 9·5 triumph. The Garnet battled Lenox on nearly even terms in the first two stanzas, although the prep schoolers led 3-2 after the first period and 6-4 after the second. Nets Hat Trick The Dutchmen, who in their other games had come on strong in the third period, wilted in the final stanza, however, as Lenox banged in three quick goals to take a commanding 9-4 lead. Brad Hastings netted the three-goal hat trick to lead the Garnet, while linemate Chris O'Neil scored his second goal of the year for Union. Led By Goss The pucksters have been led in their last two games by the standout play of centerman Tom Goss, who was injured in a collision during the season's opener against Hamilton. Goss is a graduate student tram Merrimack College, where he was the school's third\highest career scorer with 126 points in three seasons. He also finished third in the ECAC Divisio:n II scoring race in his junior year. Goss is the only Canadian on the Union squad, hailing from Port Colbourne, Ontario, where he played Junior \B\ hockey before entering college. Scores Twice The smooth-skating Canadian, who centered Emerson Martin and Mike Meserole on Union's second line in the Hamilton game, scored both Garnet goals in that contest. He added another lamplighter in Wednesday's contest at Lenox, while centering O'Neil and Hastings on the first line. Goss picked up the puck at center ice, skated in on a breakaway, and nearly deked the Lenox goalie out of his pads as he pulled the puck around the The pucksters face off tonight against the RPI Hockey Club, composed on fraternity men, graduate students, and other players not on the Engineer varsity, on RPI ice. Game time is 11 PM at the RPI Fieldhouse. Ther will be an importing meeting of the R1.1gby Club on Monday, March 9, at 7:00 P.M. in SS 016. All players who expect to compete this spring are required to attend. Any students who are interested in playing this spring are also invited to attend. The pay is low, the hours long. Participants receive a bed in a room with several other men, food, and $25 per week plus travel to and from Atlanta. The projects begin in mid-June and last about 10 weeks. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, call me at home before Sunday night (377-3541). David J. Snider. Hugh Allen Wilson, Union College organist will present the fifth in a series of six organ recitals at Memorial Chapel next Sunday, at 4 p.m. -Professor Wilson will begin the recital with Frescobaldi's \Aria detto Balletto\ and Buxtehude's two chorale preludes \Herr Christ, der einig Gottes Sohn\ and \Vater unser i-n Himmelreich.\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~£~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~®~~~~~~ ! ~ I ARTISTS! GRAPHIC DESIGNERS! I ~ GENESEE BEER POSTER COMPETITION ~ ~ ~ ~ 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th PRIZE- •soo eAcH I' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ HELP! Keep the \more exciting\ beer from falling through the generation gap! ~ ~ All you have to do is design a poster that looks a little more contemporary ~ ~ than D. W. Griffith. Go as far out as you want with color or form or style. Just I ~ don't get hung up on Madison Avenue thinking. ~ -=~ Do a poster that really has something to say! It could win you $500.00. The ~=· ~ odds are with you ..• with 4 chances to win! ~ I RULES AND CONDITIONS ~ ~ 1. Competition is open to all persons 18 years 5. Entries will be judged on a basis of original· name, address, age, and address to which entry ~~ <J&J of age and over. No proof of purchase or other ity, art technique and suitability for reproduc- should be returned after July 1, 1970. ~ consideration is required. tion, without limitation as to th'O'rne or content, 9. Judges will be Leo Kaplan, Artist, Rochester, - ~ 2. Competition period, March 1 thru May 31, subject to final approval of State alcoholic bev· N.Y.; John Sidebotham, Cn~ative Director, Wm. ~ ~ 1970. All entries must be received by May 31, erage control agencies. Esty Co., New York City; Suzanne Moatz, Design ~~ I 1970. 6. Each of four winners will receive $500.00. Major, Syracuse University School of Art. 3. Winners will be reproduced in full color lith- Winning entries become the property of The 10. Employees ·of the sponsor, members of - ~ ography, 20\ x 28\. All entries must be 20\ x Genesee Brewing Co., Inc., and will be used in their families, and sponsor's advertising agency, ~ ~ 28\ either horizontal or vertical. the sales promotion activities of the Company. are not eligible. State alcoholic beverage control ~ I 4. Each entry must show or depict, in some 7 . All entrants will receive a set of the four regulations also prohibit participation by retail - manner, somewhere in the design the Genesee winning posters. or wholesale licensees and members of their - ~ name or logotype, or a Genesee package (Gen· ·families. ~ <J&J esee Beer, Genesee Cream Ale or Fyfe & Drum 8. Each entry must be identified, in upper left 11. Competition is void where prohibited by ~ 1m Beer). hand corner of the reverse side with entrant's State alcoholic beverage control regulations. ~ I ENTRIES SHOULD BE SENT TO: ~ §.!l GENESEE BEER POSTER COMPETITION~ i GENESEE BRE. WING CO., INC. • 100 NATIONAL STREET • ROCHESTER, NEW. YORK 14605 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PAGE 6 Record Books Read Tedisco Intercollegiate basketball single season -- 174 breaking Most field goals in a single was first played at Union Lustig's record of 132 in a season -- 239 breaking Bob College in 1899. But a glance 1963-4 season Hermann of Siena record of at the Dutchman scoring Highest season scoring 200 set in 1968-9 record book now would leave average -- 29.6 breaking Most free throws in a the impression that the sport Lustig's record of 23.8 in single season -- 174 breakin,g was beg1:1n last fall. 1963-4 season Don Cohen of Albany State Owns All Marks Most points scored in record of 147 set in 1958-'9 Union's 5-8 backcourt ace Union's Memorial Field Jim Tedisco now owns every House -- 49 vs. Utica breaking college game and single his own mark of 40 against season scoring record in his Clarkson earlier in the season. first season of varsity play. With Tedisco averaging Tedisco's records set this 29.6 and his closest teammate season: Most points in a single game -· 49 vs. Utica College breaking his own mark of 45 ;1gainst Stevens earlier this season Most field goals in one game -- 19 vs. Drew breaking Toby Lustig's mark of 17 against Kings Point in 1964 Most free throws in one game -- 19 vs. Utica College breaking Bill Cole's record of 15 against Amherst in 1957 Most points in a single season -- 652 breaking Toby Lustig's record of 500 in 1963-4 Most field goals in a single season 239 breaking Lustig's record of 184 in 1963-4 Most free throws in a ' averaging 8.6, most of these records have been set despite double coverage and defenses geared to stop him. All But One In addition to Union Records, Tedisco now holds all but one record for Capital District colleges, Albany State, Siena, RPI and Union. Those records are: Most points in a single game -- 49 breaking his own record of 45 Most free throws in a single game -- 19 breaking the previous record of 18 set by RPI's Zip Riddle against Niagara in 1922 Most points in a single season -- 652 breaking Rich Margison of Albany State record of 530 set in 1968-9 1 Final Hoop Stats ! PLAYER G FG FGA % FT FTA % REB ASST PTS AVG Tedisco 22 239 579 41 174 249 70 80 64 652 29.6 Shames 22 79 184 43 31 51 61 90 89 189 8.6 Gallucci 22 67 138 49 39 81 48 305 10 173 7.9 Eichinger 22 67 156 43 31 40 78 96 15 165 7.5 Getman 21 63 163 39 11 19 58 104 29 137 6·.5 Fitl:gerald 20 33 88 38 28 43 65 48 2 94 4.7 Pe:~::~:ano 22 32 58 55 17 33 52 55 8 81 3.7 Goldberg 22 29 73 40 22 35 63 59 11 80 3.6 FG FGA% FT FTA % REB AVG PTS AVG UNION 666 1592 42 386 616 63 1096 49.8 1718 78.1 OPPONENTS 759 1697 45 410 568 72 1156 52.5 1877 85.3 Grapplers Compete In Post-Season Tourney Although their regular Later this month, Coach season ended ten days ago, Gerry Everling will send 167 the Garnet wrestlers still face strongman Naysim Simon and action in post-season 126 wizard Bill Munno to 'iOurnaments. Ashland College, Ohio, to The entire Union squad compete in the NCAA journeyed to Binghamton to College Division Nationals on wrestle in the Harpur March 13-14. ~nvitational Tournament today and tomorrow. The Harpur Invitational will also feature squads from Ithaca, St. John Fisher, Hartwick, SUNY Buffalo, Albany St., and Rochester Tech. Buffalo Favored Buffalo is a heavy favorite to win first-place honors in the tourney, especially with the Dutchmen hurting in s:everal weight classes. Ron Ruhl, at 118, and Penn Sheldon, at 142, were both knocked out of action late in the regular season. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott Street Open Daily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Tourney RecOJ;ds In addition, at the Capital District tournament held over the Christmas holiday, Tedisco broke very scoring record despite the fact that this year's tourney consisted of two games and most records had been set in three game competition. These records include: Most points in a tournament -- 69 Most points in a tournament game •· Siena 42 vs. Most field goals in a single game-- 16 Most field goals in a tournament-- 26 After only a single varisty season, Tedisco has better than half of every Union career scoring record and could hold all those marks by the end of next season with a full year left to play. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from oil ov•r the world. 406 STAlE ST. Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. Schenectady's famous dromond shop, for three genera t1 ons l I 66 Joy St. Three Union Graduates in Family. MARCH 6, 1970 Hamilton, LenoJ Dump Struggling Pucksters . . . swarming about the Union By BILL HOLLERAN net Hamilton clicked for its first tally after only 1 :59 of the first period. The Continentals owned a 5-0 lead after one period and aa 8-0 bulge after two stanzas. Hamilton rifled 33 shots at b e 1 e a g 1:1 ere d Gar n.e t '-· netrninder Dick Brickley in those first two per.iods. The Garnet, however, were \ not as badly outplayed as the score might indicate. The pucksters missed on several - VOl - I N Mrs. The Hockey Club continued to struggle throl:lgh its 1970 season this week, as the pucksters dropped contests to Hamilton's JV last Saturday, 9-2, and the Lenox School on Wednesday, 9-5. The Garnet, hopelessly out-of-~hape but unable to obtain ice-time at the booked-up RPI Fieldhouse, are starved for practice, having worked out only six times since last November. Hamilton, which had defeated the Dutchmen 5-l earlier this season, wasted little time in jumping in front of the skaters last Saturday. The Garnet were terribly unorganized in the first two periods of play, and the Continentals took advantage of Union's confusion to·camp in Dutchmen ice and score early. golden scoring opportunities, ~, including three breakaways, · Kan3as while the Union defense the firs kicked in two Hamilton goals. the Boa The Dutchmen actually Nf outplayed Hamilton in the third period, outscoring the Con tine n tals 2-1 and out-shooting them 10-8. Hamilton, however, scored the overall advantage in the shots-on-goal department, 43-19. With their forwards Continued on Page 5 MODELSZI It is, of course, our VI-but. toned blazer. Six buttons, strategically placed, punctu- ate tailoring that's the best. Nicely defined at the waist, high vented, and available in your choice of shades and springweight hopsack or flan· nel. Slip into one, today. ©. .. . ' ,· The Kauffm Mulvey Conn., ' the 2Ll · .annol:lJ Preside! Mrs. of Mari la Mn the lai Th~ the pu off Ac of Ni develo interc< Th( north the 1~ Niska fl.dditil by M and I Troy. The Wallac GirlitJ.J Union boarc benef~ the pr The ~ree ~~ I'{)r 111

6, 1970 I Union for its .:59 of The r ! ' a 5-0 and an ;tanzas. rrots at arnet \. dey in lr, were i as the 3. The several unities, caways, defense n goals. tctually in the ing the l and 10-8. scored in the rtment, nPageS • ~, . ' ,· VOLUME, 99 NO. 45 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, MARCH 11, 1970 PRICE TWENTY CENTS First Woman Is Named Trustee Black AllUmce Pr~enU Grievances To Martin Mrs. Muriel I. Kaufflnan of · KanJas City has been elected ,the first woman member of the Board of Trustees. The appointment of Mrs. Kauffman, and of William W. Mulvey of New Canaan, Conn., to four year terms on ·. the 24-rnember board was .ann o l:l n c e d yesterday by President Martin's office. Mrs. Kauffman is treasurer of Marion Laboratories, Inc., l a r g e , ,s u c c e s sf u 1 pharmaceuticals firm, of which her husband Ewing M. is president. She is ·· also a director of the Kansas Royals Baseball Club, her husband owns. In Foundation, as a trustee the Conservatory of Music, as a past chairman of the s Heart Ball Committee. Daughter of M.P. native of Toronto, Ontario, the new trustee ds a degree in law and from McMaster in Hamilton, did r aduate work in thematics at Northwestern niversity, and attended Hall, a Canadian school oflaw. Mrs. Kauffman's father, the late_ Fred G. McBrien, was a lawyer and a member of the Canadian Parliament. Her mother is a trustee of the Toronto board of education. Mrs. Kauffman's husband received an honorary Doctor of Science degree at Union's commencement 'last June. Mr. Mulvey, a 1938 graduate of Union, is executive vice president and chairman of . the executive policy committee of McCann-Erickson, Inc., a New York City advertising agency. In addition to his advertising work, he is a director of the Hatteras Yacht Co. of High Point, N.C. With television newscaster Chet Huntley and two others, he owns a pair of Long Island radio stations. A list of grievances submitted by the Black Students Alliance to President Martin last Friday afternoon, with a request for immediate action to remedy \the present situation,\ was discussed late Monday by representatives from the Alliance and a group of administration officers and faculty members. Monday's meeting was deemed \very useful\ by R. Gordan Bingham, Special Assistant to the President who added that \although the criticism that we seemed to have been taken by surprise is valid, we've felt all along that all the administration could do was make the situation as comfortable as possible and ask the Elack students to help us as new situations arise. We welceme the petition and hope that the channels of communication will be l<'ept open.\ Mike Williams speaking as an individual and not as a spokesman for the Alliance said that \the meeting seemed to be worthwhile. President Martin was open-minded about our grievance and we hope to work things out.\ The grievance of the group centered arounq four broad areas: Attitudes: The students said they had been presented to ether students and faculty as \a novelty\ rather than as regular members of the campus community. Housing: the group renewed its request for designated black student housing. Transportation: the Alliance Unifying Changes Matle By Ll.!t!l!!m~~rf!!! ilie •....,.o, 11 n\\· 11 a..,.y~ea 111 r,.ly basis, and the In an attempt to teach chemistry as a unified subject the Chemistry Department is embarking on a four-year program, during wl1ich much of the curriculum will be changed. Rather than subdividing the science into the four traditional fields: analytical, organic, inorganic and physical, a separation which department will implement ·entire changeover would the \Hammond Curriculum\ occur in four years or less. which divides chemistry into The first set of changes, to be more logical units. The new tnade next fall, involves the system will deal with discontinuation of Chemistry Chemical Dynamics, 14, a one-term .course for Chemical Synthesis, Structure freshman chemistry majors. Determination, and Theory, Instead, all students in and will stress \project Chemistry will take the Chern oriented laboratory courses 10-12 sequence and a new which present the student course in Inorganic Chemistry with a more nearly correct (Chern 16) will be added picture of how chemical primarily for majors. This Land Is Pur,hased For Future Athletic Fields laboratory studies are course, unlike Chem 10 and approached and carried out.\ 12, will have no laboratory Professor Erwin Fishman, work. In addition, changes Chairman of the department, will be made in Chern 10 and explained that the proposed 12, \te eliminate the course changes will be made Continued on Page 2 The College has announced the purchase of 50 acres of land off Adueduct Road in the Town of Niskayuna which will be developed as the site for future intercollegiate athletic events. The property, two miles north of the campus, includes the land and facilities of the Niskayuna Club and two jidditional pieces of land owned by Mobile Air-Transport Inc. and First River Inc., both of Troy. The area will be named the Wallace Girling Athletic Center. GirlitJ,g, a 1917 graduate of Union and a member of the board of trustees, is the benefactor for the purchase of .. the property. The newly acquired site will ~ree ~pace on the central campus I\'Jr mtramural and recreational · activities, Dr. Martin said. The football and baseball fields will be located on the new property, with home games to be played there beginning in the fall of 1971. Intercollegiate football and baseball contests have been playe.d at Alexander _Field since 19,12-. Existing facilities at the Niskayuna Club will also be used by the college ... These include a club house, a~small artificial ice skating rink, an outdoor swimming pool, a picnic and playground are!\, and a picnic pavillion. The athletic department will continue to use removable stands for spectators at athletic cGntests. There are no plans to construct a stadium on the property. Capital Fund Goa:l Hit In Poughkeepsie. Area The Union College Capital Campaign in the Poughkeepsie area has been completed with the drive raising $115,000, the college announced today. Under the local leadership <Jf Philip S. Potter of Poughkeepsie and Dr. H. Sherman Hirst of Hyde Park, the area campaign, which began last October, went well over its goal.of $75,000. Areas involved in the local campaign include Dutchess .County, the New Paltz-Highland area of Ulster County and the Newburgh area of Orange County. The Poughkeepsie fund drive is part of a national campaign to raise $12.5 million for capital improvements. Among the college facilities which will be underwritten by the fund are th~ new science-engineering center, humanities and social sciences buildings, a college activity center and expansion • of the Schaffer Library. said social activities of black : students were thwarted by the difficulty of meeting black women students. The major.i ty of Union's 41 black students are freshmen and, like all freshmen, are not allowed to maintain cars at college. Car ownership is also banned for scholarship students in all classes, except for commuters. Activities: the Alliance said the present program of activities--including the weekend entertainment series, the dramatic productions, and the social \mixers\ with students from other colleges--gives little or no recognition to the special interests of black students. Mr. Bingham noted that nothing could be done about the general attitudes of the campus but that all specific complaints were quickly taken care of. With regard to housing the Alliance was reassured that all members who wanted to live together would be allowed to do so, just as any group on campus can live together if they so . desire. The group was referred to the Student Senate and the Social Committee to register specific complaints they might have regarding the calendar of cultural events. Mrs. Sheila J. Beam, Assistant Dean of Students, has b~en working since November 0n a summary of all possible plans concerning means of transportation between Uaion · and other schools. This is a problem which plagues all Uaion students without cars, therefore especially affecting freshmen and students on financial aid. Mrs. Beam said thaJ the first place to look for a ride is the \ride board\ in the book st()re. She has also arranged with Don Kessler, President of the Student Senate, to have representatives in each of six fraternities who will find out which brothers are going where and are willing to give rides. Because the bus schedule to Albany and Troy is such that the buses stop running too early to be of much benefit to Union students, Mrs. Beam has also investigated charter station wagons and buses. All students who want more information~n transportation are urged to see Mrs. Beam.

·- MARCH 11, 1970 PAGE 2 Many, Many Letters to the Editors To the Editors, In his March 6 letter, Mr. Ray Krise, in his argument with Mr. John Witherspoon over displaying the flag, stated, \ ... I am not ql:lestioning whether America is great, but whether it is ours. Nixon, Agn.ew, Reagan, etc. all, seem to be sort of reluctant to let the People play with it.\ I have to take issue with a misconception that Mr. Krise and members of the New Left share. This misconception is that many members of the New Left feel that they are expressing the views of the majority of the people. In fact, they are very much in the minority. In a recent Gallup poll, 66% of the American people approved of President Nixon's policies. It seems quite obvious that President Nixon and Vice President Agnew reflect the opinions of the majority of the people and not Mr. Krise. I, personl!lly, disagree with many policies of the present administration. 1 am not, however, so narrow-minded or stupid to believe that most people agree with my views as, apparently, the members of the New Left do. The next time Mr. Krise attempts to appoint himself spokesman of the masses, he should remember that, in feality, he is speaking for 34% (if that many) of the American people. Sincerely, R.C. Erlandson '12 To the Editors: As a graduating senior, it has been my misfortune to have lived through three and on half years of unsatisfactory college- sponsored entertainment. For a substantial period beginning with the Winter Term of my Freshman year, the odds were Chem Revises Curriculum Continued from Page 1 cookbook aspects of the department, Fishman Chemistry labs,\ Dr. Fishman said, is to have a selection of said. advanced courses available to The course changes to be these students. Along these made over the next four years lines, a senior-year two-term will place courses in three course in Polymer Chemistry generalclassifications: will be oflered. The 1) Lecture only; classes department expects this w hi c h have no 1 a b course to have value for requirement such as Chem Biology majors as well as 16. those concerned with the 2) Lecture with lab; four industrial aspects of hours of lecture with three Chemistry, including hours of lab a week, such as employees of General Chern 10 and 12. Electric. 3) Lab with lecture; eight hours of lab with two hours of lecture a week. The current distinction between \Chemistry majors\ and \Modified Chemistry majors\ will disappear under the new plan. The minimum requirement for a chemistry major will be ten courses, and those who are interested in graduate work in Chemistry will take more. The aim of Courses in ' Special Topics\ will also be offered each year. The c.ontent of these courses will be determined by the professors who are to teach them. This is consistent, said Professor Fishman, with the general trend toward indepetldence and individuality under the new curriculum. School Seeks Volunteers Nott Terrace Elementary School, right next to Union, is one of Schenectady's inner city schools, with a high percentage of minority group children. a majority of families below the poverty level, and a great number of violence-prone children. Mr. Woolick, the principal of Nott Terrace, has announced his intention to begin work on a $7,000 Industrial Arts Center in ApriL His plans are to transform part of the basement into a crafts department where small groups of children can work together in learning, building, and cooperating on projects that will provide useful objects and immediate rewards for the children. ln transforming the basement, he plans to use groups of children under supervision to do the painting, installing, and initial building. He needs males especially who are willing to volunteer a little time (even only 1 morning or 1 afternoon a week) for a few weeks to supervise the children in getting the project underway. Each volunteer will work with a small group of students in gradually developing the center. The project development will begin in April, but Mr. Woolick would like to speak before interterm vacation with any Union College students interested in devoting some time to the project. Anyone interested should contact the Social Relief Committee as soon as possible at 346-5225. that the concert sponsored for a major weekend would not happen. This year the S oci.al Committee was instituted to arrange campus entertainn1ent. While it will he admitted that some of the concerts sponsored by this committee were excellent, notably the New York Rock and Roll Ensemble and the B:B. Kin.g concert, I do not believe that the Social Cemmittee has fl:llfllled its function. In a period of less than one year, both the New York Rock and Roll Ensemble and the Mason Proffit were presented to this college community twice. 1 am asking why~ The answer in regards to the New Y ark Rock and Roll Ensemble is that the student body wanted them back, myself included. But what excuse can be gtven tor presenting Mason Proffit a second time~ As one who attended their first concert, I thought that the group was good. I was a member of the minority of the students on campus to believe so, as evidenced by the small turnout. I would like to ask the Social Committee why they brought this group back when it did not sell the first time? l had asked one member .of the committee privately, and he replied that he thought the Mason Proffit deserved a second chance on this campus because many students did not Fealize how good they were the firs.t time they were here. Might it not be that the Social Committee's taste in music is different from that of the majority of the students on this campus? Might it not be that the members of the Social Committee, in sponsoring groups that they like, are failing this s.tudent community~ The Mason Proffit may be very good indeed. but if they are not appreciated by the campus community, then the sponsoring of a second concert by this group is a grave injustice. Is the Social Committee trying to fmd out wh~t type of entertainment the student body appreciates or is it just sponsoring what it likes? In my opinion, the Social Committee is doing the latter. If the same members of this year's Social Committee are on next year's Social Committee, then perhaps they will take this criticism into consideration and actually try to discover what it is that this student body enjoys instead of just I sponsoring groups which they and a small minority appricate. Michaei.Fishman, 1970 Tothe Editors: This tetter concerns Saturday's Major Field Examination in English. It is the third letter I have written in as many days. At this .point, I am convinced that Henry Fein must think of me as a moral coward and a positive fool. With each letter I have submitted to him, my position on this question has changed quite markedly. However, I hope he will appreciate the fac~ that I have been moving toward a more rational, more decoroas stance. This year's Major Field Exam for senior English majors was administered orally by three committees, each comprised of three members of our English Department and an outside examiner. It is my opinion that one of these committees was especially, perhaps overly, rigorous in its Continued on Page 3 BULOVA TIMERS Record the Action 15th. Union College Invitational, March 14th. 5th. N.Y.S.C.T.F.A., Indoor Championships, Mar. 21st. Jay Jewelry Co. 315 State St. When you know what makes a watch tick you'll choose a THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS end Nutmeats from all the world. 406 STATE ST. FERRO PHARMACY OVItt 575 NoH Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SERVICE One block from Brownell Gate LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Foocl 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enioy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail B11r DOUGLAS Schenectady's Leading Men's Shoe Store BOSTONIAN • BATES' WALL·STREETER HUSH PU~PIES • WALK\OVER • SEBAGO.MOCS MANSFIELD • SNOW & AFTER SKI BOOTS Phone FR48577 319 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. $1 OFF PURCHASE OF SHOES UPON PRESENTATION OF I. D. CARD ' . MARCH 11, 1970 Le.tter to Editors Conlinu<dJ~flls BJ!!~~'~ ~~ lli• mul\ st~ndards. l. was exarmned by Glanzrock was unanimous; yet were ,posted. Student needed for Child Care Ce Springs Da Catherine St young men\' working \' children ar contribute morninghom thts committee, and for a when he left the examination Further, there is an inequity in combination of reasons (not room, Glanzrock was confident this situation that I find all ·Of them are clear to me at ~hat he .had responded. with the extremely upsetting. Other, less . . mformatton the commtttee had capable students were successful this tlme) my performance expected to elicit from him. It is in the exam because the was n.o t up t 0 my not my place nor my intention to examiners were sympathetic and expectations or those of the ace use tb,e examiners of put them at ease. It angers me to English Department Those malfeasance. 0r nonfeasance, but think that a student of d · . there was, 1t seems to me, a lack Glanzrock's ability could not be people wh? woul ~~ to of communication, and perhaps pulled tluough, while othet'S of construe thts letter as a SO\:Ir eve~ a lack of compassion on lesser merit passed the exam. ' grapes\ reaction are welcome therr .part. Good students usua.lly to have at me. If a few do not know when they are floundenng . . . hopelessly; Glanzrock never felt Sincerely yours, ~1~;~ dJi{e~y:l~I:;~?~r;! that he swaskgoinag utndeer, anrdshe End Ye·aPrauliBeals'70 Please cor 393-6466. vww of human nature. I will · only say that in looking back, · · : ' · it was . to my overall advantage to be examined by this committee. One .of the seniors examined and subsequently rejected by the same committee was Stephen Glanzrock. I 'have always regarded Glanzrock as one of the English , 1 Department's \better\ majors; he is an able student who, in the course of ,his undergraduate career, has earned his share of A's. Glanzrock's failure remains for me, as it does for many others, incomprehensible. The examiners' and the examinee's reports and impressions of the hour long ·examination were conflicting; and not infrequently, this fact itself is indicative of a failure in an examination. But I fmd that I must have serious doubts when the impressions display a surprising polarity. The Continued from Page 4 along with netminder Brickley. The goalkeepingjob for next season is wide open, while freshman Fred Campbell will be the only returning member of the backline corps. Slick Trio The Dutchmen will look to the fine play of first-line p.erformers Brad Hastings, graduate student sensation Tom Goss, and Chris O'Neil to lead a hockey resurgence at Union next winter. The smooth-skating trio combined to score eight of the Garnet's ten goals this winter and piled ~~~~mm~~ SAVOY BROWN BLUES BAND THE NICE • FAMILY UNION COLLEGE-SUN. APRIL 12th 3:00PM-FIELD HOUSE TICKETS: Only S250 in advante, $300 at door. Tickets On Sale At: Union College (Student Activities Office), Albany State (Student Activities Office), RPI (RPI Ticket Office).ln Schenectady- Van Curler Music, State St. -In Albany- Van Curler Music, State St. FOR INFO: l518) 346-8686 Limited Seating-Buy Tickets Early! \' \~\\\\''\ :BLANKET CONCERTI THE RIGHT PERSON IN THE RIGHT CAREER This is more than our.Motto. it's our Promise to you. We're constantly in contact with tit~ Nation's most Progressive Firms and we know where the openings are both locally & nationally. Stop in at our modern offices. We're here to help you. Most positions are fee paid. up 18 of Union's 22 scoring points, on eight goals and ten assists. Leading Scorer Left-wing Hastings, a sophomore, paced the pucksters in scoring this season, tallying three goals and four assists for seven points. Ce nterman Goss played only two games, but hit for five points on three goals and two assists nonetheless. Right-winger O'Neil, also a sophomore. added two goals and four assists this season. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinin9 Room Opp. The Brownell Gato on NoH Strett Open Doily 10 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A.M. Congress McCarthy' cancelled his talk on Frid MASE reg McCarthy wi speak but tll to avert this Check w placement c for the facts for this su Cadet Corp must be c junior year i resident of library Chemung-S Finger Lake Mid-York or If you ai Cadets cho: Careers, you weeks on-th June 15 to weekly pay Careers is a program libraria1 headquarten Street, Syrac Applicafi. filed by Mar· Applica available fo Allegheny Airl he Ips you be a the waiting gc: And saves you up to 33Ya %. Allegheny's Young Adult Card I whenever you want to (even ho and still get advance reservatio If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Only $5.00 fcrr all of 1970. Allegheny Air We havealoi

PAGE4 Weakened Cindermen Impress At Cortland Mike Rich led the Union College cindermen to an impressive fifth-place showing in Saturday's Cortland lnv·itational Track Meet. ihe Garnet managed to compile 15 points in the 20-team competition, even though All-American Rich Jascszak did not partidpate_ The soph speedster had pulled a muscle during •practice earlier in the week and opted not to risk further aggravation of his injury. High jumper Rich once again proved that he is among the best in the state in his speciality_ The soph, who has only had two years of previous jumping experience, cleared 6' 6\ for a first place finish_ Other notable performances were turned in by Bryant Moeckel, Bill Clayton, and the mile and two-mile relay teams. Moeckel copped a fifth in the two-mile run. The blond distance runner toured the 16 laps in a personal indoor best of 9:5 5. Perhaps the most surprising performance of the afternoon was turned in by the Garnet mile relay team_ With Steve Wood anchoring the squad in J ascszak's stead, the quartet posted its fastest time of the year, 3:28.9 Pete Ericson, Alan Prysunka, Tim McCabe, and Wood missed garnering the first place spot by a matter of yards. Wood also did well in the 600 yard run, posting a season best of 1:17 in the event, good for a fourth place. Freshman Clayton finished in a three-way tie for fourth in the pole vault, soaring 11' 6\ and barely missing on three tries at 12'. The two-mile relay team of Greg Hamlin, Mark Burdelle, John Braham, and Terry McManus was clocked in 8:18.5, more than five seconds off their previous performance. Once again, McManus had the fastest time of the four runners, a fine 2:02.7 This Saturday the Garnet host the Union Invitational Track Meet. Events are scheduled to begin at 10:00 A.M. MAHCH 11 1970 Gacy !@I!@!S ~~ID~~~P,D@,~~k~~~196+5 guard on 2 Princeton NCAA Walters was a starting guard Princeton team, which, led by tournament teams and for the at Princeton from 1964 thru Bill Bradley, fmished with a past year head coach at 1967 during which time the 23-6 record and third place in Middlebury College in Tigers compiled a 64-16 the NCAA tournament. Vermont has been named record. Walters capped a fine After graduation from head basketball coach at playing career when he was Princeton with a degree in Union College. awarded the B. Franklin Psychology, Walters coached Walters, at 24 one of the Bt~nn Trophy as the the Lehigh freshmen to a youngest head coaches in the outstanding palyer on the 11-5 record in 1967-8 and the country, replaces Chris 1966-7 team which finished Dartmouth freshman to a 9-9 Schmid who resigned last with a 25-3 record, best ever record in 1968-9. This winter, month after three years as at Princeton. in his first year as a head head coach at Union. Walters was the offensive coach, Middlebury won seven Mats Place Third . , Nay sim Simon, Bill Simson, and Bill Munno each grabbed individual championships to highlight Union's third-place finish in the Harpur Invitational Wrestling Tournament over the weekend. The ailing Garnet, wrestling without injured stars Ron Ruhl and Penn Sheldon, totaled 50 points to finish behind Ithaca and Buffalo State. Ithaca copped second-place with a 63-point showing. while Buffalo won the tournament, piling up 95 tallies. 0 ther Garnet grapplers who placed included Gary Morris, who grabbed a second-place finish at 190, and Pete Kenyon, who finished fourth in the heavyweight bracket. Jeff Knetzer pinned his opponent in the 150 opener, but dropped a tough S-4 overtime decision in the semi-finals. Munno. who was seeded second at 126, pinned_ his first adversary and rolled to a 7-1 decision in the semis. He decisioned first-seeded George Seymour of Harpur, 3-2, in the finals. of 24 games, including an early season 81-72 victory over Union. In taking over at Union, Walters inherits a young team which finished the 1969-70 season with a 7-15 record. However, led by outstanding 5-8 sophornme guard Jim Tedisco, the Dutchman won five of their last nine games and had four starters plus the three top reserves and several fine freshman returning next season. Mertr~en Sixth In States Simon, first seed at 167 drew a bye in the opening round, waltzed to an 11-4 victory in the semi-finals, and shut out third seeded Cliff Gessner of Buffalo 4-0 in the championship bout. Walters, however, reserved jud,gement on the Garnet's chances for next year, as he has had little opportunity to talk to Schmid, his predecessor, or to scout the team. He stated that his only goal at the present time was to \try to win, as soon as possible.\ The Dutchman have not had a winning season since 1963-64. Walters believes that the environment at Union is more condusive to winning basketball than at Middlebury, and it was .this factor above all others which convinced him to leave his post in Vermont. Walters stated that by coming to Union he is \getting back into the mainstream of basketball. I'm going back into an urban area where people really love basketball_\ By BILL HOLLERAN Finishing sixth in a field of eleven New York Colleges, the Garnet mermen consistently turned in their best times and improved the standings of a year ago against such powers as Syracuse, St. Bonaventure, Niagara, Ithaca, and Buffalo. Gary Needel, Alex Bodenstab, Bob Szatrowski, and Dave Seward surprised everyone with an outstanding third place finish in the 400-yard medley relay. The freestyle relay of Burt Yankiver, Steve Hill, Mike Horwath, and Seward did even better with a second. Their time of 3:25.2 was the best for Union all season, but narrowly missed the school record. - The 800 yard freestyle relay team of Peter Goddu, Lloyd Mayer, Bob Szatrowski, and Tom Klinkow established a new school record in finishing eighth. The distance men, Xal).kiver, Mayer, and LINKS There will be a meeting of all people interested in trying out for the golf team on Friday March 13, at 5:00 P.M. in the Block U room of the Gym. Klinkow, finished sixth, t welvth, and thirteenth respectively in the grueling 1,650. Shortly after establishing a new 1 ,650 record, Y ankiver came back to place seventh in the 500 yard freestyle. Captain Dave Seward was the sprint star, shattering his personal SO-yard freestyle mark with an amazing 22.6, which gave him a second. Qualifing in his best time, 51.3, for the hundred, he finished fifth in that race. Strokers Needel, Hill, Szatrowski, and Bodenstab all did well in their specialties. Szatrowski's 56:3 in the 100 yard butterfly was the third best time, while Needel and Bodenstab each placed seventh in their hundred yard races. With such a strong finish, the swimmers, who lose no one at graduation, are confidently awaiting the 1970-71 season. Beleagued Pucksters Close Out Dismal Year By EILL HOLLERAN The Hockey Club closed ·out a dismal season this weekend as they cancelled their remaining two contests with the RPI Hockey Club and settled for a 1-3 final mark in four games. The only Garnet \victory\ was a forfeit win in their game against Utica College_ The Pioneers won the contest easily on the scoreboard, 8-2, but forfeited the next week after it was discovered that they had used several players who were not Utica students_ The skaters were completely outplayed in their other three games, 5-l and 9-2 losses to Hamilton's JV, and a 9-5 drubbing at th.e hands of the Lenox SchooL It was a frustrating year for the Dutchmen, who rolled to an impressive 3·2-1 mark last season, only their first full year of operation. Hopes were high for this season with a sizeable crop of returning veterans on hand. With only six practices between November and February, however, the Garnet were never even able to get off the ground. Outlook Gloomy The outlook for next season appears equally gloomy, as the Garnet will lose senior defensemen Tim McEnerney, co-captain Rich Miller, and Terry Brown, Continued on Page 3 Professiona1 Typing Service IBM Selectnc Greek and Math symbols. Choice of type style. ExperiClnced in typing Doctoral fheses. Reasonable rates. Dependable. Call 489 6978 any tune. Simson's stunning performance was the upset of the tournament. Simson, carrying a 3-5-1 regular season record into the Harpur competition, defeated the second, third, and fourth seeds on his way to the title. He recorded a 5-1 triumph in his opening match, eked out a hard-fought 9-7 overtime victory in the semis, and won first-place honors on a 1-1 overtime referee's decision. Munno and Simon will wrap up their collegiate careers when they travel to Ashland, Ohio, over the weekend to compete in the NCAA College Division National Championships Pennel Esso Service N ott Street Corner Of Van Vranken As for his recruiting plans, Walters commented that he is going to start his search for talent, \on our own home ground,\ the Capital District, but hinted that he has good ties in New Jersey, Long Island, and eastern Pennsylvania. Although he realizes that his Union team will be desparately lacking in height, Walters said, \I'm going to start by going after the best all-round basketball players available.\ Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. Schenectady's famous d•omond shop, for three generations) 166 Joy St. Three Unton Graduates ·in Fam1ty. Peter Pause ·535 Nott Street vc Ser w By L< In a yesterd: Social seminar floor v memon Tracy f Union posthur The nc possibl~ Dr. an Tracy, student the ded Pre Martil ceremc the fi Union E l i·p admini speake: Bally I delayec weathe Pre em ph a: econo plaguec many nothin the I• Nott, college drew Nott's for the and S curren- for car Pre follow• of Hi gradua gradua

