ar ox . ' ~nd use ::md his ton out ing ing 1 to :od ing JOr igh rly a ot, ith n~ in ro rst or es th lg e. lt is )f g ,e n e z . . ~·· ~ .·.~· .. .:·~ ···~ ., . C/1 n = .. t'rt· .. Z- ·f%2 n ·. ~ . . o· ,. ~ ... ··-~·· trl ~. ·~·: o. ~- . ~-· ,.. ·.·~ c ~ z tr1', ~ .... ~ \0 ......;a·. ~ ., ,------ \\\'\\ 0 .Q r ~- ' Q ... ~ s· :s .. -~ ·.~ 'I . ' Tlle hearings of the Union College Disciplinary interference with the legitimate discourse of Committee with the students who were .allegedly established members of the college community? An involved in the .supposed occupation of the Admini- adjutent question might he just who ordered the stration Building on May 17 are laudable in their doors to be locked? If President Harold C. Martin attempt at objectivity, but unfortunately naive in would appear to testify at the hearings - which he their .blind acceptance of the Admhiistration has allegedly been invited to do by council for the premises used in the indicting of these individuals. defense - perhaps this matter could be clarified. To direct ourselves to .the point; there are several . A fourth question which the proceedings of the llilanswered, or avoided, questions which the events hearings raise is the manner in which the both surrounding and directly concerning the respondents are being heard. Although the people hearings have raised. First, precisely who were the who were summoned are being tried individually, · people involved in detetmining what students were and the Committee is persistent in its assurances that called to defend themselves. before the Disciplinary all cases will be considered separately (even though Committee? The charges are officially brought by the Committee is just as persistent in its insistence Dean Edward J. Malloy, yet testimony in the that it will render no verdict on any individual case hearings themselves has indicated that at least two until it has heard all nineteen cases), the Committee students --. Dave Robbins and Walter Spencer ~ continues to allow testimony - over defense saw a proposed list of names and at least one .of objections - Concerning the actions of the group them ~ Mr. Robbins - commented to the Dean as within the building. The defense claims it is unfair to the advisability, or more properly, lack thereof, to judge an individual by the !lctions of a group, of summoning certain of those students at that time while the Committee feels that testimony named. This, however, is slightly after the fact. !he concerning the group'& actions is relevant. If that is main question, unanswered, is who compiled the so, then why are the respondents not being tried as original list, and what criteria were used in its a group, rather than as individuals? Perhaps the compilation. precept of divide and conquer is in evidence here, A second question raised is when- if ever -'the although we hasten to add that this is not a Administration Building was declared offid,ally formulation of the Committee, it is a formulation of closed, so as to make all assembly in the building the Mysterious People who decided who occupied after that time illegal. In his letter to the colle~ the Administration Building, and who did not. community concerning the alleged takeover,, There are other, more minor, questions which President Martin stated that the building was closed cou)d be raised - such as to how great the validity at 5 p.m. Dean Malloy, in testimony before the of the ''rumblings around campus\ Security Committee, has said that the building was officially Director Kleinkauf claimed were the basis for his closed at 11:30 a.m. The respondents i'n the belief that the Administration Building would be proceedings contend that ·at , neither 11:30 nor 5 occupied - but minor points would only· serve to o'clock clid any representative of the Administration cloud the already murky issues. The points are that appear to declare the edifice closed. The first time a web of vaguries surrounds every event concerning the respondents claim to have been given notice that the Administration's actionstoward the students who the building was closed was when they were allegedly took over the Administration Building; delivered a letter from the President saying, among that the Administration is not doing thing one to other things, that the building had been closed at 5. clarify, explain, or even justify its actions; and that The letter was delivered at 6 o'clock. the Disciplinary Committee itself - appointed by A third question raised - indeed, springing from the Administration - continues to p·ursue the torch the previous question - is why the Administration of objectivity in a rainstorm of Administration Building was locked on that Monday morning in cavilarity. That somethingcurious happened in the the first place. One of the charges brought against Administration Building May 17 of this year is -the responqents is that they interfered with the undeniable, but for the Administration of this legitimate discourse of established members of the college to cloak the activities in terms of villany, college community; yet, was not the locking of the which it itself is unable to define, is both an insult Adnunistration Building, preventing students from to the pursuit of truth - which is a college's cashing checks, obtaining preregistration material, rationale - and a perversion of justice - which is a asking questions of various Administration college's life. personnel, and so forth - was this not an -Ray 1\rise Jr. Mountebanks Play Three vice•squad patrol cars were needed to break up the now famous Montebanks orgy that began late Saturday night and was finally halted at 4 a.m. on Sunday morning. The police were sent to 1101 Rugby Rd. when Miss Abigail Fraser complained that the hysterical bleating of a sheep next door was keeping her awake. After breaking down the door, the police were treated to a sight hopefully never to be duplicated in Union history. The sheep which aroused the complaint was lying prostrate upon the floor, obviously in a state of tnental exhaustion. He was . deserted by the outgoing officers of the thespian society who were busily engaged in perverse acts with five pounds of potato salad. After arresting these first offenders, the police searched the house, and finished with twenty prisoners. A departing faculty member, found in the bathtub with three co-eds, was screaming, ''( am the greatest director in the world!\ Extent of the damage to the plumbing was not revealed. A special vice squad lab has been set up on the stage of Proctor·s theater to examine stains and droppings found throughout the apartment. Evidence gathered includes a complete tape made by Channel17 of the proceedings. Concert Sunday M-emorial Chapel Ate A Clock ~Y Crackey Frankly, I don't know what you're waiting for. It could be Spring out. You could be outside. Playing at, ate a clock, in Memory of \Chapel''; some day. Even in g. · So, I ordered you a prune juice, hot that you'd think it coffee. So, just rub your fingernail on this page. Now smell the page. That's you you smell. Now listen to the perpetually flushing toilet. Notice any similarities. Stand on the mound! Pitch, black and faster than you can say Jackie Robinson. Jews! You say orange juice but at 25¢ a hit, it's more than coke. Smoke, a taking jester. No room for gooks, let alone the gheeks. So eat, sleep, and crap all in the same room. If you're a constipated speed freak you probably aren't hungry and can stay out. you ought to keep it out (and up) yours truly* ·

on ng ng to or ly a h r r s .l v , ''1.: ,} (/.tr ·. z. ~ ~ ~ li1 ~ Vl w ....... 0 0 .. • .e ..ci ~ • The hearings of the Union College Disciplinary Committee with the students who were allegedly involved in the supposed occupation of the Admini- stration Building on May 17 are laudable in their attempt at objectivity, but unfortunately naive in their blind acceptance of the Administration premises used in the indicting of these individuals. To direct ourselves to the point, there are several unanswered, or avoided, questions which the events both surrounding and directly concerning the hearings have raised. First, precisely who were the people involved in determining what students were called to defend themselves before the Disciplinary Committee? The charges are officially brought by Dean Edward J. Malloy, yet testimony in the hearings themselves has indicated that at least two students ~ Dave Robbins and Walter Spencer - saw a proposed list of names and at least one of them - Mr. Robbins - commented to the Dean as to the advisability, or more properly, lack thereof, of summoning certain of those students at that time named. This, however, is slightly after the fact. The main question, unanswered, is who compiled the original list, and what criteria were used in its compilation. A second question raised is when - if ever -'the Administration Building was declared offici,ally closed, so as to make all assembly in the building after that time illegal. In his letter to the college community concerning the alleged takeover, President Martin stated that the building was closed at 5 p.m. Dean Malloy, in testimony before the Committee, has said that the building was officially closed at 11:30 a.m. The respondents in the proceedings contend that at neither 11 :30 nor 5 o'clock did any representative of the Administration appear to declare the edifice closed. The first time the respondents claim to have been given notice that the building was closed was when they were delivered a letter from the President saying, among other things, that the building had been closed at 5. The letter was delivered at 6 o'clock. A third question raised - indeed, springing from the previous question - is why the Administration Building was locked on that Monday morning in the first place. One of the charges brought against the respondents is that they interfered with the legitimate discourse of established members of the college community; yet, was not the locking of the Administration Building, preventing students from cashing checks, obtaining preregistration material, asking questions of various Administration personnel, and so forth - was this not an • interference with the legitimate discourse of established members of the college community? An adjutent question might be just who ordered the doors to be locked? If President Harold C. Martin would appear to testify at the hearings - which he has allegedly been invited to do by council for the defense- perhaps this matter could be clarified. A fourth question which the proceedings of the hearings raise is the manner in which the respondents are being heard. Although the people who were summoned are being tried individually, and the Committee is persistent in its assurances that all cases will be considered separately (even though the Committee is just as persistent in its insistence that it will render no verdict on any individual case until it has heard all nineteen cases), the Committee continues to allow testimony - over defense objections - Concerning the actions of the group within the building. The defense claims it is unfair to judge an individual by the actions of a group, while the Committee feels that testimony concerning the group's actions is relevant. If that is so, then why are the respondents not being tried as a group, rather than as individuals? Perhaps the precept of divide and conquer is in evidence here, although we hasten to add that this is not a formulation of the Committee, it is a formulation of the Mysterious People who decided who occupied the Administration Building, and who did not. There are other, more minor, questions which could be raised - such as to how great the validity of the \rumblings around campus\ Security Director Kleinkauf claimed were the basis for his belief that the Administration Building would be occupied - but minor points would only serve to cloud the already murky issues. The points are that a web of vaguries surrounds every event concerning the Administration's actions toward the students who allegedly took over the Administration Building; that the Administration is not doing thing one to clarify, explain, or even justify its actions; and that the Disciplinary Committee itself --- appointed by the Administration -- continues to pursue the torch of objectivity in a rainstorm of Administration cavilarity. That somethingcurious happened in the Administration Building May 17 of this year is undeniable, but for the Administration of this college to cloak the activities in terms of villany, which it itself is unable to define, is both an insult to the pursuit of truth - which is a college's rationale - and a perversion of justice which is a college's life. -Ray Krise Jr. Mountebanks Play Three vice-squad patrol cars were needed to break up the now famous Montebanks orgy that began late Saturday night and was finally halted at 4 a.m. on Sunday morning. The police were sent to 110 I Rugby Rd. when Miss Abigail Fraser complained that the hysterical bleating of a sheep next door was keeping her awake. After breaking down the door, the police were treated to a sight hopefully never to be duplicated in Union history. The sheep which aroused the complaint was lying prostrate upon the floor, obviously in a state of mental exhaustion. He was deserted by the outgoing officers .of the thespian society who were busily engaged in perverse acts with five pounds of potato salad. After arresting these first offenders, the police searched the house, and finished with twenty prisoners. A departing faculty member, found in the bathtub with three co-eds, was screaming, \I am the greatest director in the world!\ Extent of the damage to the plumbing was not revealed. A special vice squad lab has been set up on the stage of Proctor s theater to examine stains and droppings found throughout the apartment. Evidence gathered includes a complete tape made by Channel 17 of the proceedings. Concert Sunday Memorial Chapel Ate A Clock By Crackey Frankly, I don't know what you're waiting for. It could be Spring out. You could be outside. Playing at, ate a clock, in Memory of \Chapel\, some day. Even in g. So, I ordered you a prune juice, hot that you'd think it coffee. So, just rub your fingernail on this page. Now smell the page. That's you you smell. Now listen to the perpetually flushing toilet. Notice any similarities. Stand on the mound! Pitch, black and faster than you can say Jackie Robinson. Jews! You say orange juice but at 25<~: a hit, it's more than coke. Smoke, a taking jester. No room for gooks, let alone the gheeks. So eat, sleep, and crap all in the same room. If you're a constipated speed freak you probably aren't hungry and can stay out. you ought to keep it out (and up) yours truly*

.I I Page2 CONCQRDTENS/S, JUNE.2, 1971 · _,_ __ _,______________ -· -----~- ·-~---- RAY SAYS GOODBYE Editol\in·Chief James E. Stewart Honorary Editor Ray Krise Jr. :Susiness Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Asst. Business Manager Michael Hurley Editors Emeriti ?etet J. Weingold William. Ouu:r Photography Editors Jody Saslow Charles Long Asst. Photo Editor Dave Conrey STAFF: Marty Berman, Gary Leiderman . LITTER .. . . 28\ May, 1971 Union Co.llege Dog Alliance Union College Schenectady, New Y otk Dear Sir, BARK YOU! OFF THE STU DENTS! We members of the Union College Dog population were extremely pi~sed by our recent characterization as \pests of the Year.\ There can be no excuse for such blatent homo sapianism. As members of the College community we demand our equal rights and privlidges. No more ejection from classrooms and dining halls! You students and .staff better soon realize that this is as much a dogs' world as it is yours. Our demands- are non-negotiable. If they are not met, we will return ·in the fall with outside barkers and occupy Jackson's Gardens. We will no longer stand for this people-shit! RIGHT PAW! LIBERATE THE CAMPUS! Dua.ile (Speaker and recording secretary) Dillon Cocoa Butch Heidi Cambridge Auto P. Matic Che (and puppies) Captain Regis Kaena Alex ----· Leroy Jasqn Jethro Zachory Caeser Bubbles Glido (alias Chance) Otis Wilson Yar Duke Otto (he trips a lot) Bremer (term abrqad) Bob (Monger Dog) Square-Dog Alfred (Uni-ball) BOTHER The Admissions Office has run out of 70-71 catalogues and the new ones won't arrive for some time, so if you have one you're not using and it is in reasonably good shape, please bring it over so they can give it to an unassuming sub-frosh. * * * * There will be a meeting of the Student Social Action Committee this Wednesday at 7:30 in the Social Sciences Lounge. All are urged to attend. * * * * Anyone who will be in. Schenectady for the summer and interested in working in the Hamilton Hill Food Co-op should leave their name and telephone number in the Student Activities Office. ~· .. ~},......_; a ;<t~ .. . . by RAY KRISE JR. A year ago, the last column of the school year that I wrote was especially hard-hitting (as I think Dr. Martin will recall) because it newr ·relinquishes its power willingly or peacefullY; and that the longer .a class has ruled, the ·more insensitive or, ~nd ruthless. towards, the attitUcl•es, sensibilities, Wants, and needs of the people does that ,ruling Glass become. This m.Ust be changed, and it must be -changed a·ny way to convince mys~lf that I am. able to survive in the world outside the walls' of this fairytale island. necessary. · Over the years, people have asked me why, if I disliked Union so much, I never left it.· My ~ns:wer was that if everyone who disagreed with the place left, it would never change. ' was the end of the year and there was something I had Jo say which I fe1t was important : .. and, to. be honest, I knew there would be no follow-up issue in which it could be rebutted {never trust the Press). I told .Michel about all this and he said how he was looking forward to the last column of my last year. This is the last column. I dedicate it to MicheL I also dedicate it to all the rest of you. I've been getting disg1,1stingly sentimental lately. When I look at things. on campus, I find myself looking at them with as uri.el{pected intensity, tryifig to indelibly imprint all of Union College· on my memory. I have taken up semi-permanent .residence in Jackson's Gardens, not only because it is one of the most beautiful places on campus, but also because it is one of the most beautiful things I have ever seen. I do not want to come back here some years hence lind find a dormitory standing in the center of the Gardens. What has motivated me in my career at Union? A sentence from a book. The book was the Freshman Record of 197l, the· sentence was written by ~.of all people!) Harold C. Martin in his traditional letter to the incoming freshmen. Here it is: \After 172 years of existence, it is not 'likely that the College will either crumble or conflagrate from a new s-tudent's presence, but evert two years on this campus have: shown me that it does respond whenever new vigor somewhere asserts itself.\ My purpose at Union has been · to try to make the .College· either crumble or conflagrate. My class,. the Class of 197 I, entered Union just as the country was becoming a ware that not only might it be good to be a kid, it might also be a superior thing to be. ·In the spring tenn of my freshman year, they rioted at Columbia University and I did not quite understand why. My roommate.- had a McCarthy sticker on our door and I did not quite care why. Our class no longer had to wear coat arid tie to dinner in West College. My sophomore year, we did away with parietal regulations (sophomore year, I could whip off the spelling of \parietal\ at the flick of a typewriter; now; I have to stop and think about it . for a second~will I be able to rattle off ''amnesty\ in two years?). We did not have to attend a minimunl\ of three convocations a term. · Nixon became President. The radical demonstration of the year consisted of a large group of guys clapping· and chanting outside a faculty meeting. The faculty w~s arguing whether . we should change from a 4-point to a 12., point grading system. I started writing for the school paper. The students themselves started organizing to make Union co- educational, and although a proposed Co-Ed Week fell 'by the boards, the spirit and determination were there {today, the girls are here). · I started a running argument with the then- Editor over whether the stories I was writing about coeducation should be edited as legitimate news, or allowed to be subtle If I may be permitted a few personal asides, I would like to salute some people to whom I feel I am especially indebted: to AI Ziegler, a student journalist who taught me to have the courage to write the way I felt; to Clare Graves, whose determination and iconoclasm have earned my respect and laughter; to Jocelyn Harvey, who taught me to be unashamed of being sensitive; to William Murphy, who told me in my first term that I did not· know how to write, and who managed to t~ach me something about the English language; and to Dennis Peskin, a sensitive man who teaches by the way he lives. propaganda. The summer between my freshman and sophomore years, they rioted in Chicago, and I both understood and cared. My political consciousness was preceeded, and pulled along, by my social caring. The sight of blood streaming down the face on one's brothers and sisters certainly starts raising questions in one's mind. Or, at least, it should. The summer between my, sophomore and junior .years,. around a half-million people gathered at Bethel, New York, for the First Annual Aquarian · Exposition, which history calls· Woodstock. Chicago was the birthplace of my generation, and Woodstock was its baptism. My junior year, I became part of the second great wave of students to ·move off campus. I learned about landlords. I learned about people. I tried to continue Union's own underground paper, Paper Highway, but it died. I stopped writing for Concotdy for a term due to mutual low opinions of each other held by the then- Editor and myself (always fight Some last music notes: If you listen to Cream, . the Rolling Stones, and the Beatles so that you know them very well, you will·have le.arned most of what is essential in rock music. The best concert of the year was Seatrain (I'll agree with Mike that the best show of. the year was Sha-Na- Na). If you are not moved to dance or somehow express the music you are listening to, you are not listening to it properly. The most moving single song performed at the school this year was Barbara Michela singing \No Expectations.\ The basic answer to all the questions was that a ruling class censorship, people). We got rid of the gym requirement. The Moratorium.s came and went. To Washington we came and went. The war stayed the same. Sprio Agnew coined the phrase, \effete corps of impudent snobs.\ The effete corps of impudent snobs coined the phrase, \'fuck you, Spiro.\ It's time to leave you, my family. You have taught me much in four years, and I hope I have managed to teach you some small th'ings in return. Let us not feel sorrow at the time of parting-it will only make meeting again all the sweeter. You will find as you move through your years (if, indeed, you have not. found so already) that the only thing that makes life worthwhile is loving people (including yourself) and helping people to love each other (including themselves). Learn to love, my family, and learn to laugh~and please, please, always remember -we are all brothers and sisters, every last one of us. In the spring we took over the ROTC building. The next day dawned to tell those sitting on the ROTC steps that Richard Nixon had invaded Cambodia. Union College went on strike. I found Jesus Christ. President Martin found me. All of Union College f9un.d marijuana ... All power to the people. Goodbye. I love you all very much. The energy of the natiortal student strike dissipated in the summer between my junior and senior years. Like a great/ flood, the students had spent. their power and the waters were now sinking into the ground-toward ........... . the roots. In retrospect, I think I can say that the time we have passed through was not one of apathy so much as it was a time of reaffirmation. In the ~end, a11 a man has to depend on is himself, and in order to be able to depend on himself, he must first find himself. I traveled a lot. The year just now ending-my senior year-hardly needs recounting here. We've all lived through it together. We've seen the coming of the girls. We've seen the coming of the questions (on the administration building steps, in faculty meetings, hopefully in the dorms). Perhaps, someday, we shall see some answers. My main concern fight now is On Sunday,- Jime 6 at 4:00 p.m. in M:em~nlal Chapel, the . Jazz W orksbop presents The Nick Brigno/a Quintet in a \blow your..· mind before finals\ afternoon concert. Admission at the door. Will be 50¢ for Union students, $1.00 for all others. The well known area group, also known as \The Last Word\ and \The Non-Pr_ophet Organization\ holds a recording contract with Mercury Records. They have been a great influence to Union's own Jazz Workshop. In its drive to bring its jazz-rock approach to area schools, the Brlgnola group has drawn standing ovations from audiences at Siena, RPI, and SCC. ...

am able outside island. have Union it.· My who left, it in my from the the· ~.of all n in his 172 likely either from a ut evert have: been a few like to hom I to the felt; to Nhose and who of y first to t.(!ach by f you oiling that you is best to the you song year my me I orne not of ake her to to ' ~· -..?, .. ~ ... 'it ' \~ THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON ~0 THE 1971 GRADUATING CLASS lffllON COLLEGE The continued success of the American Experiment depends primarily on the qualities. of heart, mind and spirit of our young people. As. college graduates you have not only the training and ideal,ism, but the opportunity and responsibility 'to build through further study or through your chosen careers toe kiti.:d Qf society which will make further generations ·proud to identify '\ith your accomplispments. I know that you will not fail to become part of a positive response to the needs of Americ;a: a response worthy of her resources and capacities; worthy of the. historic courage and the wisdom and will of her people. Your studies have given you the tools to dedicate yourselves in a very special way to helping overcome some of the most difficult· problems we face; and as you becQme further involved in these efforts, you will continue to discover more e:x:amples of the ways in which the complexities of modern life make it imperative for us to work tosether. The destiny of our nE;ltion is not divided into yours and ours. We snare it. There can be no generation gap in America. We must all keep an open mind and forthright spirit, balance the courage of our convictions with the courage of our un.:.. certainties, triumph over b:i.gc;>try and prejudice and recaptur.e the unity of pur.pose that has always been our strength. Your fresh ideas and candid approach can be a strong deter- rent t:o division and a vaiuable asset in building the alliance of the generations we so urgently need if we are to. advance the cause we share. As I congratulate you on this graduation day, I do so in full confidence that you will answer this need both in your careers and in your daily lives. CONCORDI£NS/S, JUNE 2, 1971 Page 3

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, JUNE 2; 1971 Non Scholae, Sed Vitae DiscimuJ • uwe Learn Not In The School, But lit Uf ' «· t Seneca. Ep.. 1

Page 4 CONCORDJENS/S, JUNE 2; 1971 -- -~ ,,,. .. ··-- -~,,' Non Scholae, Sed Vitae Discimu~ • \We Learn Not In The School, But In Uf · ', .. . ---· . .-- :~ .,; ~ Seneca. Ep. 1 I :!_

Uf «< { ,. 1 11 ~·

Lif I . ·\!.

't1' :),· ''li ,,. '. '· I :1 ' ·I : I. :1 , ' ' ' i Page 6 CONCORDIENS/S, JU~E 2, 1971 ~ / . ' ST. BONAVENTURE UNIVERSITY Now ·Marking 113 Years of Franciscan Service to God, Country and ·Comm.unit:Y presents this a.t~rtifttttt~ nf · ~~rtt to C 0 ;J C 0 P. D I E N S I S in recognition of quality achievement in College Journalism during the Academic Year 1970-71 Given on PRESS DAY, the· 8th day of May, 1971, at St. Bonaventure, New York ;,. • ,, I ' .. i. .. .4 • I t ( Chairman, Department of/] ournalism Director,· Press Dar 'Things Could Be Worse' Or STUDENT LIFE I BASTION OF PATERNAI..lSM ''Wait 'Till Next Year'' A SHORT PLAY FOR WOMEN STUDENTS (It is the first day of Freshman Orientation at Onion University. Two upperclass women, Jane College and Ruthie Roommate, are preparing dinner in their new quarters in Jackson Hall. Their pup tent is neatly pitched near the Cree-k. The pleasant aroma of late autumn flowers. mixed with the not-so-pleasant odor of the creek permeates the air. Ruthie speaks.) Ruthie Roommate: \WelL rm new here. My name is Jane, here we are back at good Theresa Transfer, and I've been 'ole Onion. Sure was good to.see temporarily assigned to room Dean Bean agairt!\ with Jane College and Ruttiie Jane College: \Sure was. lt Roommate. Could you direct was so kind of her to come over me?\ here and offer us waterprooling for the tent.\ Ruthie: \Yup! Just like our Housing Office. Always concerned about what's best for the student. All the same, I ·hope it doesn't rain for a while. It would be terrible if the creek rose and flooded u~ out! Rememberthe Ruthie: \Welcome! This is Jackson. I'm Ruthie and this is Jane. By the way, did Dean Bear give you a sleeping ba~? No, didn't think he would. Our budget. is rather tight this year. Actually, this tent is meant for two, but we're getting it at a dirt rain we had last spri 1g .• ,, ' 'II b · h cheap price. Thmgs Wl · e tig t, Jane: \Do i ,'\cr. t.ven though but you're welcome!'' BY Leapin' NOTICE OF HEARING In the Matter of Proceedings to Investigate Violations of the Regulations of UNION COLLEGE by Gary Leidertnan, Respondent. \ ... a hearing will be held before the Disciplinary Committee of Union College, Tues., June l, 1971, at 7:30 o'clock in the afternoon of that day ... \ (After a list of alleged. \violations , of the regulations,\ the following:) \WHEREFORE Union College demands that tbe proper penalties be imposed by the Disciplinary Committee of Union College in accordance with Rule 'C' of the Regulations of Union College\ (Penalties to he imposed by a disciplinary body of the College shall include one or more of the following: reprimand, fine, probation, suspension for limited or indefinite time, expulsion.\) \and the paragraph entitled 'Student Conduct' of the Booklet 'Student Life', a guide to students at Union College. 'DATED: May 27, 1971, UNION COLLEGE, By: Edward J. Malloy, Dean of Students, ... \ Dean Malloy has thusly demanded that penalties be imposed in accordance with the booklet entitle(!, \Student Life: A Guide for Students at Union College, Schenectady, New York.\ There follows a sampling of regulations listed in the paragraph entitled \Student Conduct,\ from which readers can reach their own conclusions regarding selective enforcement of those regulations and paternalism by your Big Brother, the Administration. \All rooms are equipped with necessary furniture. Extra furnishings or the exchanging of furniture is allowed only with the permtsston of the Housing Office. Removal of furniture from rooms or destruction of furnishing is prohibited. A Glossary Of Concordy Terms ViQlations are subject to disciplinary action.'' '~The following activities and items are prohibited at all times in and around living units: Gambling i Firearms and other lethal weapons, fireworks and combustibles; Heating and cooking appliances, radio masts and aerials, radio transmitting equipment; Pets; Tampering with fire alarms or fire extinguishers; Willful damage to college or private property; Throwing articles from windows or storing articles on window sills; Excessive noise.\ \The College can not condone · premarital sexual intercourse or deviant sexual behavior within its precincts.\ \Hours for Parties: 1. No parties will be authorized - .... campus Sunday through Thursday, except before holidays .... 3. On three occasions each term the Dean of Students may authorize a party until 3:00 A.M.\ . this is just a temporary arrange- Jane: \We lost our scholar- ment, I think we should pitch our ships last year in the budget \rumor has it ... \ - the reporter is about to start a rumor room up higher. And. my squeeze. Until we got this place \a reliatbJe sour~e\- the reporter is about to quote himself. \Chaperons are not required at social functions.\ (As John Sebastian would say, \And I don't know how I but you~re a big boy now.\) Motter. an old scout from way for only $404.00 we didn't think · • \a reliable source hagh in t'ack, suggested digging a ditch we'd be back. Pretty nice - ~ the Administration\ - R. Gordon Bingham around our stove. Just a sa1ety Cheapest place on campus. too. · \When alcoholic beverages are served at parties, non-alcoholic beverages must also b~ provided. \The abuse of these privileges · \ \Lance Falducciwitz\ - Danny precaution. Ruthie: \We've just fixed Ruthie: \Good idea. l can't dinner. HeFe. have a toasted Schocket wait for winter. Once the creek marshmallow. · . \lanlil Faldu~ciwitz\ - Danny freezes we'll hav~ t~~t ~efrig· · Jane: \You're pro.bably · Si:hocket erator that was wntten up .m the curious abour parietal hpurs. No· . \Danny Schocket\ - Lance br~chure. Oh, I. almost tor~ot, boys are allowed in the room Rentze! Jane. Dean Bean wants to bnhg until we vote by living unit in \Bill Dugi\ - a reliable source ~er brovJnie troop over to .. get a two weeks. If you have any high in the Administration ftrst hand look at outdoor hfe. If ques.tions, ask·the RA i.n tent r.. I \staff' - the group of three or we coop.erate, we may get ~ Sh 11 b 1 d t h 1 A d t e. e g a 0 . e R· . n . res 'our peo'J)Ie who show UP. in the comp-ed credit.\ d ll g t n Dean 1 ' assure . no one WI e 1 • - . . . 'offices o.n any given night (Enter Theresa Transfer, looking Bean has set up. a. twenty fou~ \· . II· tt · d d very excited but a little fluste'red. hour watch at the gate.\ . . .. a we :a en· e · . . She speaks to Ruthie.). . Theresa: \I'm so excited ... tell ·lecture. -.twelve or mor.e people Theresa Trnnsfer: \Excuse· mi:l, · me, is Onion really as great as 'in SS 016 but I'm looking for Jackson· Ball. the brochure says?': ... . ' l• will not be tolerated. \a .surprise take~over\ - the Drunkenness or disorderly reporter hadn't heard about it conduct resulting from the use of because he'd slept until 3 in the alcoholic beverages · ·by afternoon ' individuals or groups. will be \an.offieial grounds for disciplinary aetion.\ declining to be quoted\ - the : · official has told the reporter that he will be kicked out of school if he prints what he has heard · \while it is too early to make any judgments of tile sitnation ... 11 _: th'e- r~portet can't think of anything e?se to say ·. ''~0\ - The End~ · · Jet To Europe· I.S.A.S. SPACE AVAILABLE FROM$990/W Call Ken or Doug 393-8698 ~._--.~~~~~~-~~~-~ 'f, 'll . ..JS ·, .fJ t < (!· \ .

CONCORDIENSIS. JUNE 2, 197I Page 7 • .t· • • J ' j I tiJ I ' f , r·

Page 8 CONCORDIENSJS, JUNE2, 1971 ·t . -Concordy_ Sp-orts . .' TEDISCiO SIGNS EARLY.- WITH:-PORTLAN'D TEDISCO SIGNS EARLY Jim Tedisco, in a special meeting with . the press last night, has indicated that he has signed a five-figure contract with .. the Portland Trailblazers of the National Basketball Association, and will skip his senior year at the \hallowed halls of old·· ·U- Coll.\ Tedisco, a legend in his own time here, admitted that he has. been in constant contact ;With the · owners of Portland· and Valdon Del-Lewis, sports editor of the Portland Star Ledger, whom Tedisco credits for his signing up with that organization. · The contract, besides calling for an estimated $45;000 for the dimunitive star, also includes special bonuses, depending on whether Jimmy makes the . team and how well he performs during the course of the season. · In the conference, Tedisco · .hinted at some other reasons for going to the pros,. besided the handsome offer and the chance to \make it\ with the big boys. He cited the fact that he had gotten all he wanted out .of \this place\ in three yeaJ,'~ and the degree was . not all-important, especially a Union i Col'lege degree. He also optimistiea~ly ran over his chances of making it next year, before th~ merger destroys contracts for money and such, using one-::time · ,Jndian!l ·small man great Bill Keller as . a · pr.ecedent. . 'Another . reason. for Tedi:sco ending up at Portland has to be his new· coach this year, Gary Walters. Tedisco's breaking every offensive record except for rebounding at Union, and his making bunches of all'-.American ·teams impressed Walters enough that he gave the word to ••npllar Bill\ :Bradley who in· t~rn spoke to Portland's · Geoff ·Pettie,· informally of course. Those three Princeton alumni · definitely conspired to send y()ling· Jimmy out West. The elder Tediscps · of Schenectady were smprrsed, amazed, and needless to say elated. over the news of. their \little\ Jimmy, When questioned. whether Jimmy was. morally . . ' Beta - Turtlers Victorious The Beta Thet~ Pi turtling the \eternal fraternal flame'', was be ~n answer to the rumop tbaf · squad turneq in what had to. be ranked. eighth in the country and _ the Beta flame is flickering; . the their finest performance of the riot given much of a chance 'bef!r bas gone sour, and turtling year last Saturday when they against bigger, stronger Textile; · has . humped · its way into eked out an upset victory over Nevertheiess,. the . ''flyi:tlg\ ·:oblivion. Irt the wordsof Tommy defending national champions· Dutchmen overcame the odds,. Heart, Beta spokesman, '' .. ;just Philadelphia Te:x~ile, in .. the and humped ·their adversaries' 17 :!leW kids, and. we'll never say district finals held on the campus}.·· . into submission after a m.e.re nine . 4ie.\ . of .. Fr~nldin. a_nd : M~rsha;l hours · and some · forty . four !-lnwerstt~. The. wm, Betas 17th minutes had elapsed. . m 21 outmgs thts seaso.n, enables The alarming. upset in .w-hat the local stalwarts to move on to 'Nas deemed the \mismatch'~ of Waco, .. ~exas, f~r. the na~imials. · the century, has te be at~ti'buted They w1ll be Jomed there by to the actions of Coa.:ch ·. Terrold · Florida A&~, . ~illiam Jewe'l McGuanus, and the optstan<Jing .. · • · College · (M1ssoun), a.nd . . t9p- play of paisani her:o~s Antonio. ran~ed Eastern New Mextco Fagela;, and the Furious Futilesio .. · State. · . :Be 11 ides putting Union -in the: · Beta, loti.g recognized for ·. tUJ:tlin~ .finals, the,victoty hag tl:) b~:~;ving put Union on the .niap as. the llist Northeastern bastion: of · WANTED 3~5 Speed·Bike ·Low Price. CJlll 377;;;8671 .· -~ .... - .- ·~·~ TF,RM PAPERS .. .LU .. I;G,I'S. TYPED IN MY HOME RES·TAU RAN·T. I DO ANY · SPEClALIZING IN . ' ' . Take A Trip .... ·• correct in ·his dedsion, Mr. 'KIND OF TYPING PL~ASE CALL ~E~TRAL BRIDGE_~868·20l' t . ltali'an • American Food Com e . . . F ly Wit~ U's G•oup and Charters; R~gular Departu,es. .Rilt,•llflr :' T1 t , dt\ I 1 $2 00.0·0 •, 1 '\ 'Teo' I ,._, , Spt•r.,al fares tu Europ(! and Asia ·and Srmc,al Study Tours. EURASIA TOURS, lNC. 251 West 42 St. ' New York, N.Y. Phone: 239•6607 Name ..................... · .............................. .. Address ................................................ .. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our. Fine Home Cooked holion Food in Ou• C~mfortoble Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on ~ott ·s,,. .. Open Doil.y 10 t.o I A.M, Sundays 5 P.M. ·to • A.M . . Tedisco, casually referring to the · money, said,\ ... that's a spicy· meatball.\ HECK'S IN.TERNATIONAL TRAVEl. . . ''Specializing in Student Group Travel\ \OVER' 50 YEAR$ OF SERVICE' \No Serrlce. Charge\ Two Loeatious 151 Barrett St. Mohawk Mall \' 393-8960 NOW LISTEN TO YOUR FAVORITE MUSIC AI PRICES YOU CAN AFFORD ustates Only All Panasonic Store\ . . BRING .YOUR DATE \ ... PANASONIC IS THE WHOLE SHOW!\ IN TH£ MINI MAU. AT MOHAWK MALt, SCHENECTADY TEL. (518) l46·49l4 Optn JO:OD a.m. ro 9:30 p.m., :Mond.ay through Siiliirilay ~URE· \:1uu I I Moffe.tt's ·Liquor st·or.e J:'rlcltets Requiied 1611 Union_ St. .Scb'dy TRY <11n1d ~utk (Across 1:he Field) 1505 VanVrJmkcn Ave. 'For three Generatibil$.' .Tho$e Who Know ••. Have ~en recommending MAURICE B WALTER . '\3 Union tes in Graubarf family'·. 166 JAY ST .. FOR HONEST SER:YI~E AN.D GOOD ~EWELRY · / -· ' 1125 BARRETT ST •• · Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar MAM.A:~~~BfANCHI'S R·ESTAURAN·r • We CaterTo Stud,ents • Open When Others Are Closed· • Large Room For Banquets The Friendliest Place in Town·: ~OPEN T1J. 3 A.M. F;RI. alld SAT.· r 1J~3~ ~Barrett. ~~t~· N.OISE PO·LLU'T·ION 'DOES IT BOTHER YO-Ul MEET THE PIONEER FAMILY THEY DO SOMETHU~G ABOUT IT. CJ}PIONEtlt SEE & HEAR THEM AT LAFAYETTE GLENS fALLS ' ALB~\' SCH'D\' 7t7 UpperGitn •41 Sunnner St. Nottlnfay 79l·Mtl . 499-l4lt 45f.7~5t 7t Cmtral A'le. l41 Erie tlhd. 462-9501 3..WIU ' .. \

