\t ' ~\. 3 J I . ,l:~ • • <. ; ; f r ;;r -~ :· ,, ' . ' ·. ' . ' ......... P~~CE TWEN·TY CENTS -· ~·- -· - ~---··-.-· ....... - .. ;,-.. Volurne 101, Number 1 SCHENECTADY, NEW,.YORK · ... SEPTEMBER 24, i971 -· .· - . - • ' - • 1 THE UNION COLLEGE SOCIAL COMMITTEE will present a free concert featuring the J. Geils Band at 8:30, Saturday, September 25 in Memorial Chapel . The concert was changed from 7 p.m. at Library Field as originally planned. ~ .. .. >< .. ... ,. ~. ~ ~ 2 • '}ft. . .• •..•.. J. Geils Band,. a blues band which has been together for more than five years, played closing night at Fillmore East and brought down the house. All Union students are invited to attend the free concert. Dean Palmer .. LeaveS Union Post for · Coloratlo ·COllege Presidency. -- Dr. James D. Palmer~ Dean of· Science and Engineering at Union College for the past five University of Oklahoma. He was also director of Oklahoma's Systems Research Center. Acting Dean of. the Faculty, responsible for day-to-day administration of the entire academic program. :Program Expands ForComp Eds R. Gordon Bingham, Assistant to the President, announced yesterday that this year, for the first time, the Comprehensive Education Program will offer students \expanded opportu,nities for Independent Study within Comp Ed.\ r To achieve this goal, Mr. Bingham has assembl.ed a number of opportunities for students to provide volunteer services in the community. In nearly every case, it is also possible to talk about credit for , this work within the Comprehensive , Education Independent Study Program. Those students who are interested in working with primary or secondary education in the conventional or traditional spheres are encouraged to work in the new Schenectady Open School, the Niskayuna School System, and the Ballston Spa Middle School. In all cases, students will be assisting in classes; and will have the chance to teach anq, in some 'ca~es, to develop their own courses. Last summer, a numlier of students worked as Urban Fellows with the Schenectady Community Action . Program. These students have returned to their respective colleges and a coordinator was hired to continue their work. Students interested in doing research in recreation, legal aid, land ownership and , housing, transportation, co- operative stores and credit unions, consumer education, the plight of the elderly, etc., are sought by the coordinator to devel<>.p reports us.eful to the Agency in •community organization efforts. The Schenectady Human Rights Commission investigates complaints of discrimination in housing, public facilities, welfare, etc. Students are needed to do the leg work for investigating cases brought to the commission. An excellent opportunity is thus provided for those interested in social work. , Other possible sources fpr student voluntary efforts in the community are available from Mark Coven, chairman of the Stud.ent Social Action Committee, in the Student Activities Office. Any students interested m participating in any of the volunteer programs must first discuss their plans with Mr. .Bingham, whose office is in the Administration Building. As before, students may _Continued on Pag~ 3 Come to Concord.iensis' Organizational Meeting Monday, September 27, at 7:00p.m. We're located in the Geology Building, upstairs from Old Chapel. · years, has been selected as the second president of Metropolitan State College in Denver, Colo. Announcement of Dean Palmer's appointment was made in Denver in August. He succeeds Dr. Kenneth Phillips, the first president of the five-year.:: old college. At Union he has headed one of the two major academic units of the college, responsible for academic programs serving approximately half of the college's 1,700 undergraduates and most of its 900 graduate students. Kateb Convocation Speaker . Be our cartoonist or roving reporter. Find the answers to the unanswerable questions. Stay on top of Union's news. AU aspiring journalists and non-journalists, frosh and upperclassmen, are urged to attend. Work in the office on layout, headline writing, copy reading, typing, etc. Go to the printer and help put the paper together. Draw cartoons, write news, features and/or sports. Dr. Palmer, 41, was graduated from Fullerton (Calif.) Junior College aild the University of California at Berkeley, where he took a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering. He subsequently received a master's degree from Berkeley and, in 1963, a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University of Oklahoma. Before coming to Union in July, 1966, he was professor of electrical engineering and director of the electrical engineering department at the ,·., At a .meeting of the Inter:- Fraternity Council on September 22, the Rushing Rules were revised to allow for an \informal rush\ period starting on September 24, followed by the normal \formal rush\ beginning October 1, 1971. The informal rnsh period means that the \no contact\ period will end, but freshmen cannot be invited to any house or attend any meals, parties or general house gatherings. Also, no invitations or general anliiJUDcements may be made to the freshmen. AU other rules, not concerned 'With starting dates~ wiD remain in e:lteet. Freshmen sbouJd not break these rushing rules as th~y will ony be hurting the house if they do. The rest of the r~gulations wiD be passed Qlit to the freshmen ,as a rushing ~oldet in a· week to to days. T e.lls of Nixon Successes He also played a major role in the planning of the college's new $7 million Science-Engineering Center the largest construction project in its 177- year history. The Center was officially dedicated last May 1. Like Union, Metrppolitan State College offers programs in both liberal arts. and engineering to_ its 3,500 students. Founded only five years ago; the college has no graduate programs. Union President Harold C. Martin, commenting on Palmer 1 s selection, said that \Union is losing a man of great energy and talent.\ He added, \We regret his departure, but it was inevitable that a man ·of Dean Palmer's capabilities would receive this kind of opportunity. We wish him every success and congratulate the state college system of Colorado on its choice . ' of a president for its Denver unit.'' . In addition to his duties at Union, Dr. Palmer had servedas vice president of V oh;mteers for International Technical Assistance, Inc. (VITA) and as chairman of the board of trustees · by PATTY SIPE Professor ~George Kateb, a political scientist from Amherst ColJege, delivered a talk entitled \Keeping·. The Peace\ at the Opening Convocation last night in Memorial Chapel. Kateb began his talk by explairiing that he voted for President Nixon in 1968 because he was convinced that the party which had behaved SQ criminally with regard to its actions in . Vietnam should not be rewarded by being returned to office. He explained that he was. convinced Nixon .would somehow end the war, if only out of 'his own conc~rn for being re-elected. He admitted that he was taking a risk, and that he did expect such unwanted results as intimidation of the Warren Court. The Professor stated that ·Nixon has brought peace, but only at home. \He has outlasted his adversaries and quieted the country ... How has he kept the peace without touching the issues that disturbed the peace in the first place?'' · Professor Kateb cit.ed many reasons for Nixon's success in this \cosmetic treatm~nt.'' He has of the Hudson-Mohawk The M:ouq.ebanks will present Association of Colleges and \The Mad Man and The Nun\ Universities, a nine\member by Stanislaw Witldewicz Friday ~onsortiuii_J- of P.riv~te institutions at 1 and 9 for Freshmen and · m the Capttal Dt~tnct. ' . • . • D p 1m . ·n b in his . Transfers only,. Saturday at 8:30, . ea~ a er ~ 1 . eg ; . . for Upperclpsmen and Union dube~ m Den~er m September. Community~·· The sh.ow . is Pendmg ~electmn of a success?r directed by \tJarry Smith and a~ Umon,. Dr. Ma~t. 1 n designed by Charlie Steckler. It is LlchterD?an; J?ean of . J:Iumamtles the Mountebanks' newest and and Soctal Sctences, w11l serve as Hv..:~est adclition. · brought almost half of the forces home reducing not the verocity, but the visibility of the war. Casualties are down. People are tired of talking and thinking about the war. Even the May Day tdemonstration in Washington last spring was, in Kateb's opinion, more duty than passion. Modification of the draft was \just enough to cool off his adversaries, but not enough to put an end to the policies his adversaries said they would do «;ont~nue~ on Page 3 Join · our newly forming Cultural Arts Department and write articles on art and music in and around campus. For a little of your time and a lot of satisfaction, be where the action is and join the \Voice of Union Student,\ Concordiensis. For more information call Lou Snitkoff, 393-0086, or Doug Wong, 346-9735. . . Union To Nominate Seniors for Post-Graduate Scholarships Union College, together with fo~mal. study at a foreign 34 other colleges and umverstty. The Fellowships are universities, has been asked to ·wort~ $6,000 each (or $8,000 for nominate four candidates for the marned students). They are Watson Travelling Fellowship awarded for one year, but may, program. (70 Fellowships will be under exceptional circumstances awarded during the coming b~ ~ene_wed for a second yea; winter.) Wtthm s1x years from the date of ·All graduating seniors are. t~e initial award. Fellowships · eligible, regardless of sex, race, will be held over for periods of nationality, ·undergraduate up to five years for students wlio programs, ·previous· foreign are affected by the draft or who experience, d~aft status or career are . unable, for othL~· cogent plans. There are wide limits to ~eason~, to take up their award the purposes for which the .Immedtately. F.ellowsbips may be used: in SeD;iors are invited to apply general it may be said that they • early m the Fall term, and should are intended to help newly .. send preliminary ap'plications to graduated students to spend a the Faculty Liaison Officer as year abroad (i.e. outside. N. soon as possible, and in any case America) in the study of almost not later than October 4. Final r any conceiveable topic, provided nominations will be made by the that it will not involve extended · College not later than the end of Continued on Pag~ 2

CQNCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 24, 1971 Pal!e 2 Managing Editor Doug Wong Business ·Manager Joseph Achenbaum Editor-in·Cliief Louis S. Snitkoff New!i Editor Patty Sipe .Sports Editor George S. Uaip. Features Editor l\1atthew Swartz PbotographN Editors . Jody Saslpw .. Cliar.les Long . As It Passes The Fan by MATTHEW SWA~TZ ' Gt!Qrge Jackson wrote, in a letter dated June 12, outside of Rochest~r. SubscriptioQs Manager Michaei H1,1rley Copy Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Assoc. Pbotography Edit()t · Dave Conrey 1970, that \one or twQ guards workingtogether is . In 1960., Georg~ Jac~son, at ei&hteen, was all thafs needed to murder any con in the joint.\ arrested in cot).nectton ·With the robbery of a gas About fourteen .months later, Jackson was siain in station, With seventy dollars missing, no one hurt California's San Quentin prison. The true meaning durip.g the hold-up · and Jacksoil's goUt still of this quotation assumes. desperate dimensions in uncertain, (he insisted until the end that he was not light of new facts now being turned up in the in any way concerned with the robbety) the ever fair aftermath of this tragedy and of the catastr:ophic judicial process saw to it to serve Jackson with a massacre which recently took place in Attica prison tenn in prison of one. year to life, · Published Tuesdays and Fridays d1,.1ring the school year by the s~udent body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N. YC. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Eleven torturous years later, punctuated only by iuterm.ittent take a number of the guards a!l time out of solitary confinement hostages with .a list of demands,. the dead Was quoted as saying\ (Jackson spent 8\12 of his II years most of which were already fifty mile.s to a hpspital ~ that's a in solitary) and a trallSfer from granted under the law! The real long way to bleed. 11 Probably Just Soledad p1ison to San Quentin, problem. was l'!>pparently the long enough to bleed to death, ·h h d d d · h t th Mrs. Mo.Neil. · - e was s ot ea unng w a e demand for general amnesty for .· . . .. . . . .? . . . auth6rities termed an \armed the prisoners involved, frorn .. W?ere are .we now. WeU,, we attempt at escape from the responsibility for the death of,- ·live !na society that .has been maximum security block\ of .the two guards killed during the take- co:ptmuously . pulvertz~d . ?Y prison~ Only prison personn~l over. Faced , with deciding to. t~9~-dY_@ft~~}~ragedyuntil we ~e ·were able to produce evt'dence · ·d· ·b· · · · · so callous to accept these sordtd We're. Backl:fl With Fall and classes upon us once again, we come to realize that, in Schenectady, the anaesthesia of winter will soon be enveloping us all. With that in mind, let us pause for a moment to reflect upon the past here at Union and elsewhere, before it is too late for us to remember. . .· · • 1 • · contm':le , , eli. ep\~10~·-, .o.r .. t_Q , . f1'' tt ~It\ (M• '\:... · · 1 d (fl 'th that a gun was involved a)ld; for· :(or 9 e(ul!y .retake control_ oJ the · o o s . Y. :'-4'1 me u e 1 W;l • a that matter, that there was in fact ·pfi.son; Rocky 'huniaqely ord~r~: · · ·Wa~e ·of. .thed1~nd.: By obtrumng an attempted e~cape. In other . with Nixon's ignorant' bless(ng;·a · .any of: the_. ... pnnted. material on W ords, ·no. pn·s·o~er was .awa .. re, f 11 u1 b the con(Utio.:ns .. of.pri~orler~ today, u .. scale assa t . y state troopers · · · .. that Jackson had obtained a gun and uationa,l guard (tb~re . they o·ne . ciJ;q· deveh>p. an or t.hat. he had plan· ned.:.an \'sea·. pe. · h UnderStanding · (allhe11gh never \ are again, t · ose ever-true The \official theory'' becam~ upholders of law and order in the understanding the inhumanity this: one Stephen, Bingham, a · !iltate). The result; forty dead. The our brothers suffer until beil1g young, radical lawyer from the \official theorizers\ act¢d a little aciually plac•ed in a similar San Francisc!) area, visit¢d too fast, for the next day, position of pain) of some of the Jackson shortly before the autopsies showed all the deaths atrocities that take place under those of us who arrive at Union for the first time this year are coming to a school which is emerging from its shell of tradition and assuming a policy of change which is more relevant to reality. attemp . ted esc11pe an· d. at t·hat h d 1 f the name of the United States, to , ave occurre . as resu ts o. time smuggled a gun t.o the gunshot wounds from the at)d of the hopelessly oppressed Pn .soner whi.ch was c·o·ns·eq·uen·tty f th 11 existence of the American weapons o ·_· e ga ant troopers. hid by the prisoner in his hair!(?) Not all of the easualties ·died political prisoner, which many of Im· m·edt'ately an ••an .·points\ goes · d' 1 h M these men are. One such work of Howev~r, before we go ahead with plans for the future it is important for us to realize the significance of that which has happened in the .past. The euphoria of sm:nmer h~s a nasty habit of causing us to forget what has: happened during the preeeding sprifig, · ·~ut only those of us who are not here fo.r the first time must share this guilt. tmme tate y, . owever. . any out for Bing~am and if_ he is. ~yer died on the way to, or in, a striking and beautifully found (he 1s now m hid1~. Rochester hospital some fifty perceptive. qualities is The Prison u~der~round) the chance for a miles away, The mother of one of Letter of George .rac~on. fa1r tnal has been lost due to the swaying of public opinion by the Very few students here will remember what it was like when Union .. had strict parietals, jacket-and-tie requirements for dinner, required convocations and far more stringent academic requirements than there are today. More of us will remember what happened in 1970 after the Cambodian incursion and the Kent State killings, when \quiet and conservative Union College erupted into an era of involvement and awareness.\ Remember how we were headquarters for \Strike Central\ throughout the Northeast? Remember how, just three months later, as the. new term started in September everything was quiet as it had been for the last 17 5 years? Still more remember what it was like here without women. \official theory.\ What's more, · there now exists an affadavit in the hands of Jackson's mother, sworn to by several hundred of the inmates at Sant Quentin, that there actually existed a conspiracy amongst the guards to elininate Jackson. None knew of either a gun in Jackson's possession or a plan for escape. Can the American pubiic possibly believe that a prisoner, after eleven years in maximum security, would take it upon himself to · scale the walls and bars along? Unaided? lh more acc'Qrate terms, to so irrationally commit suicide? Please, hasn't our intelligence been ·insulted Senate To Hold Elections Students To Sit :On Board Nearly all of us should remember the occupation of the Computer Center and the Administration Building -it was just last spring- and those who dealt with the discipline committee in June surely can not forget. Now, it's fall again. It would be nice if we, the members of the Union community could find a happy medium between apathy and extreme activism - a situation in which we might all see.k an improvement of life here at Union. This is where Concordiensis can, hopefully, serve its most valuable function. We, at Union, are fortunate to be going to an institution where the entire community consists of less than two thousand people. With the news media here now offering as much as they are, it should be a feasible task to keep communication lines open among students, faculty and administration. This year, Concordy seeks to serve all members of the college community by planning extended features on major issues which can very easily polarize the college community. In plans of this nature, we offer qpen pages to all who feel that the few minutes involved in writing an article or expressing an interest are not too high a price to pay to reach a goal that will improve things .at Union while we are here, as well as lay the foundation for further changes in the future. As in most communities, fall at Union is a time for organizing activities and electing per&onnel to positions. in governance. On Monday Oct. 11, elections Will be lield for student positions. on the new All College Senate and the Board of Trustees .. once too often? Attica, New York. Some three weeks after Jackson's murder, 1200 inmates inhumanly crammed into a cell block designed to hold 480, rebel and assume control of the block and Scholarships Continued from Page 1 Under last year's Governance Report, implemented by the Board of Trustees at their June meeting,. an All College Senate i~ now being formed consisting of twelve faculty members, seven students and four administrators. The senate will deal with all academic and non-academic affairs and its decisions will be binding on President Martin With the exception of those matters which pertain to budget and priorities. At the same time as the senate elections, two students, one junior a:nd one senior, will be elected to sit on the Board of Ttustees as associate members. Due to a New York state law which prohibits anyone under October. The final award by the twenty-one from voting on a Watson Foundation will not be board, students will not be able based solely on academic to vote but will be accorded all performance, but will also take other rights and privileges d_ue into account such things as board :members. The . ne\t board breadth of interest, powen;- <>f meeting is in. late O.Ctober. New leadership, and the nature and student members will be installed practicability of the proposed in office at that time. course of stud~. Students who The requirements of the are interested m the program governance report necessitate a should call in to see Professor complicated ballot. Votiqg will Reece in Room 2l5E in the be conducted by student senators Humanities Building as soon as Monday evening October 11, in possible. the dormitories. Off-campus Three other major post residents will be able to Vote graduate awards are available, during the day at the student and interested seniors should activities office. lf a run-off contact the various faculty election is needed, it will be liaison officers. The awar~s are conducted on the following ~anfo~th Fellowships, for those evening. The frrst All College mten~mg to go on to c?llege Senate meeting will be held on teac~I.ng, see . Professor Nichols • Wednesday Oct. 13. some departments and programs will vote in a different division than that to which they are normally assigned. For the purpose of voting departmental assignments will be as follows: DiVision l voters include arts majors, classics majors, English majors, modern language majors, philosophy majors and aU center I interdepartmental majors.- Division II voters include history majors, sociology majors~ political science majors and economics majors. Division 10 voters include biology m~jors, chemistry majors and psychology majors. Division· IV voters .include math majors, physics m .. jors, me.chanical en.gineer~ electrical engineers, cjvil engineers and aU interdivisipnal and interdepart· mentalntajors in center JI. Petitions for candidates for the llo<\rd of . irustees and the All College · Se~~~e will be available in the Student Activities ·Office on Monday Sept 27 ahd will be due back, complete with signatures, no later than 4:.30 pm Friday October 8. Petitions for the divisional seats on the All College Senate must be signed by 50 majors in the division from which a candidate is running. Petitions for the at-large senate seat and the two board seats lllUst J>e s~ned .by lSQ students. Signatures may be · drawn from the entire student body. During the last sixteen months, our country has moved from Kent State to Attica State; during the same period Union has adopted a new system of governa_nce. It has been proven that Union is capable of <Jhange; it has been proven that we can only do it together. (PohtlCal. Science); ¥arsh.all Majors from each academic Scholarships, for .t~ose I~tend!ng division will elect one all college to study at a Bnt1sh u~Iverstty, representative from. their Professor Reece {~lassies) and division. In addition one at-large Rhodes Scholarships, . ten~ble student representative will be only at Oxford Untve.r~lty, elected by vote of the entire Pr.ofessor Board (Poh~I?aJ student body. The president of Sc1ence) .. The Woodrow Wilson the student body sits on the All Fellowsh~p ~rogra~ has been College Senate ex officio. A temporanly discon~mued and . t.he graduate student will be elected Lehman Fellowship ~dong w1th .at a later date. necause . each all other post .. ~aduate awards division does not enroll an equal offered.by New York State have number of majors members of been Withdrawn. · 1 'There will be a· meeting for Seniors at 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday, September 28, in S.S. 016. At tlais meeting details will be given of the various post-graduate awards that are available and of the arrangements for taking Graduate Record Exams and similar tests. All Seniors who think they may wish to go on to graduate · school, law 'iPhnol or any other form 01 • study are urged to atten-.. ~..(. t• I } ~· .b .. \· • l . •. I. . ' , .. .... , .. .J,. ,, . 'j l

CONCORDIENS/S, SEPT. 24, 1971 ainurnr Managing Editor Doug Wong Business Manager Joseph Achenbaum Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff News Editor Patty Sipe Sports Editor George S. llain Features Editor Matthew Swartz Photography Editors Jody Saslow Charles Long It Pa ses The Fan by MATTHEW SWARTZ ' George Jackson wrote, in a letter dated June 12, 1970, that \one or two guards working together is all that's needed to murder any con in the joint.\ About fourteen months later, Jackson was slain in California's San Quentin prison. The true meaning of this quotation assumes desperate dimensions in outside of Rochester. Subscriptions Manager Michael Hurley Copy Editor (;ail W. Goodman Assoc. Photography Editor light of new facts now being turned up in the aftermath of this tragedy and of the catastrophic massacre which recently took place in Attica prison In 1960, George Jacksm1, at eighteen, was arrested in connection with the robbery of a gas station. With seventy dollars missing, no one hurt during the hold-up and Jackson's guilt still uncertain, (he insisted until the end that he was not in any way concerned with the robbery) the ever fair judicial process saw to it to serve Jackson with a term in prison of one year to life. Con~ributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Dave Conrey Puhlished Tuesdays and Frida)~ during the school year by the student hody of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Rt>pre~t'ntative. '\:::llional Fducational .. \d>c:rti~mg Scn•.:c:, In~:., College Pubhshers Representative. 360 Lexing1on A\·~ .• ;\;. Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. We're Backlll Eleven torturous years later, the dead was quoted as saying\ fifty miles to a hospital - that's a long way to bleed.\ Probably just long enougFI to bleed to death, Mrs. McNeil. · Where are we now? Well, we With Fall and classes upon us once again, we come to realize that, in Schenectady, the anaesthesia of winter will soon be enveloping us all. With that in mind, let us pause for a moment to reflect upon the past here at Union and elsewhere, before it is too late for us to remember. punctuated only by intermittent time out of solitary confinement (Jackson spent 8Y2 of his ll years in solitary) and a transfer from Soledad prison to San Quentin, he was shot dead during what the authorities termed an \armed attempt at escape from the maximum security block\ of the prison. Only prison personnel were able to produce evidence that a gun was involved and,· for that matter, that there was in fact an attempted escape. In other words, no prisoner was aware that Jackson had obtained a gun or that he had planned an escape. The \official theory\ became this: one Stephen Bingham, a young, radical lawyer from the San Francisco area, visited Jackson shortly before the attempted escape and at that time smuggled a gun to the prisoner which was consequently hid by the prisoner in his hair!(?) Immediately an '\all points\ goes out for Bingham and if he is ever found (he is now in hiding underground) the chance for a fair trial has been lost due to the swaying of public opinion by the \official theory.\ What's more, there now exists an affadavit in the hands of Jackson's mother, sworn to by several hundred of the inmates at Sant Quentin, that !here anu;.d:) c.\I~tcll a conspiracy amongst the guards to elininate Jackson. None knew of either a gun in Jackson's possession or a plan for escape. Can the American public possibly believe that a prisoner, after eleven years in maximum security, would take it upon himself to scale the walls and bars along? Unaided? In more accurate terms, to so irrationally commit suicide? Please, hasn't our intelligence been insulted once too often? take a number of the guards as hostages with a list of demands, most of which were already granted under the law! The real problem was apparently the demand for general amnesty for the prisoners involved, from vesponsibility for the death of two guards killed during the take- over. Faced \with deciding to continue deliberation .or to for~efully retake control o.f the. prison,· Rocky humanely orders,· with Nixon's ignorant blessing, a full scale assault by state troopers and national guard (there they are again, those ever-true upholders of law and order in the state). The result: forty dead. The \official theorizers\ acted a little too fast, for the next day, autopsies showed all the deaths to have occurred as results of gunshot wounds from the weapons of the gallant troopers. Not all of the casualties died immediately, however. Many died on the way to, or in, a Rochester hospital some fifty miles away. The mother of one of · live in a society that has been continuously pulverized by tragedy after tragedy until we're so cailous to accept these sordid horrors (My ·Lai included) with a wave ·9f the hand. By obtaining .any of the printed material on the conditions of prisoners today, one can develop an understanding (although never understanding the inhumanity our brothers suffer until being actually p I a c e d in a similar position of pain) of some of the atrocities that take place under the name of the United States, and of the hopelessly oppressed existence of the American political prisoner, which many of these men are. One such work of striking and beautifully perceptive qualities is The Prison Letter of George Jackson. Those of us who arrive at Union for the first time this year are coming to a school which is emerging from its shell of tradition and assuming a policy of change which is more relevant to reality. However, before we go ahead with plans for the future it is important for us to realize the significance of that which has happened in the past. The euphoria of summer has a nasty habit of causing us to forget what has happened during the preceding spring, but only those of us who are not here fo; the first time must share this guilt. Senate To Hold Elections Students To Sit On Board As in most communities, fall at Union is a time for organizing activities and electing personnel to positions in governance. On Monday Oct. 11, elections will be held for student positions on the new All College Senate and the Board of Trustees. some departments and programs will vote in a different division than that to which they are normally assigned. For the purpose of voting departmental assignments will be as follows: Yen· few students here \\ill rcmt?mbcr what it \\a~ like.: when Union had strict parietals, jacket-and-tie requirements for dinner, required convocations and far more stringent academic requirements than there are today. More of us will remember what happened in 1970 after the Cambodian incursion and the Kent State killings, when \quiet and conservative Union College erupted into an era of involvement and awareness.\ Remember how we were headquarters for \Strike Central\ throughout the Northeast? Remember how, just three months later, as the new term started in September everything was quiet as it had been for the last 175 years? Still more remember what it was like here without women. Nearly all of us should remember the occupation of the Computer Center and the Administration Building - it was just last spring -- and those who dealt with the discipline committee in June surely can not forget. Now, it's fall again. Attica, New York. Some three weeks after Jackson's murder, 1200 inmates inhumanly crammed into a cell block designed to hold 480, rebel and assume control of the block and Under last year's Governance Report, implemented by the Board of Trustees at their June meeting, an All College Senate is now being formed consisting of twelve faculty members, seven students and four administrators. The senate will deal with all academic and non-academic affairs and its decisions will be binding on President Martin with the exception of those matters which pertain to budget and priorities. At the same time as the senate elections, two students, one junior and one senior, will be elected to sit on the Board of Trustees as associate members. Due to a New York state law which prohibits anyone under twenty-one from voting on a board, students will not be able to vote but will be accorded all other rights and privileges due board members. The next board meeting is in late October. New student members will be installed in office at that time. Division I voters include arts majors, classics majors, English majors, modern language majors, philosophy majors and all center I interdepartmental majors. Division II voters include history majors, sociology majors~ political science majors and It would be nice if we, the members of the Union community could find a happy medium between apathy and extreme activism - a situation in which we might all seek an improvement of life here at Union. This is where Concordiensis can, hopefully, serve its most valuable function. We, at Union, are fortunate to be going to an institution where the entire community consists ·Of less than two thousand people. With the news media here now offering as much as they are, it should be a feasible task to keep communication lines open among students, faculty and administration. This year, Concordy seeks to serve all members of the college community by planning extended features on major issues which can very easily polarize the college community. In plans of this nature, we offer open pages to all who feel that the few minutes involved in writing ::~n Ftrticle or expressing an interest arc not too high a price to pay to reach a goal that will improve things at Union while we are here, as well as lay the foundation for further changes in the future. During the last sixteen months, our country has moved from Kent State to Attica State; during the same period Union has adopted a new system of governance. It has been proven that Union is capable of change; it has been proven that we can only do it together. Scholarship·s Continued from Page 1 October. The final award by the Watson Foundation will not be based solely on academic performance, but will also take into account such things as breadth of interest, powers of leadership, and the nature and practicability of the proposed course of study. Students who are interested in the program should call in to see Professor Reece in Room 215E in the Humanities Building as soon as possible. Three other major post graduate awards are available, and interested seniors should contact the various faculty liaison officers. The awards are Danforth Fellowships, for those intending to go on to college teaching, see Professor Nichols (Political Science); Marshall Scholarships, for those intending to study at a British university, Professor Reece (Classics) and Rhodes Scholarships, tenable only at Oxford University, Professor Board (Political Science). The Woodrow Wilson Fellowship program has been temporarily discontinued and the Lehman Fellowship along with all other post-graduate awards offered by New York State have been withdrawn. The requirements of the governance report necessitate a complicated ballot. Voting will be conducted by student senators Monday evening October II, in the dormitories. Off-campus residents will be able to vote during the day at the student activities office. If a run-off election is needed, it will be conducted on the following evening. The first All College Senate meeting will be held on Wednesday Oct. 13. Maiors frDm each ::trademic division will elect one all college representative from their division. In addition one at-large student representative will be elected by vote of the entire student body. The president of the student body sits on the All College Senate ex officio. A graduate student will be elected at a later date. Because each division does not enroll an equal number of majors, members of economics majors. Division III voters include biology majors, chemistry majors and psychology majors. Division IV voters include math majors, physics majors, mechanical engineers, electrical engineers, civil engineers and ail interdivisional and interdepart- mental majors in center II. Petitions for candidates for the Board of Trustees and the All College Senate will be available in the Student Activities Office on Monday Sept 27 and will be due back, complete with signatures, no later than 4:30 pm Friday October 8. Petitions for the divisional seats on the All College Senate must be signed by 50 majors in the division from which a candidate is running. Petitions for the at-large senate seat and the two board seats must be signed by 150 students. Signatures may be drawn from the entire student body. 'There will be a meeting for Seniors at 4:30 p;m. on Tuesday, September 28, in S.S. 016. At this meeting details will be given of the various post-graduate awards that are available and of the arrangements for taking Graduate Record Exams and similar tests. All Seniors who think they may wish to go on to graduate school, law c:t'hnol or any other form 01 • study are urged to attent.. J , l'-• ' \ 1 ... \ \'· J ' \ I . ·~ ! I I I ...A! \\1 •, ~ 1\,. ' ' ... t• '• /-. ~ I ~ .. ~ l .. · .. t ·(~

gas not a th, by ty y ·, l ~ ·~~'··. l ' I 1\ 'Jil.) ' ·! .\_ 'l· ' .> \ :. ,· \ ' i .; j ti . I . ,,· - '· .. f ~..i. I . . ' I• f.;. l \ ·J\' ; ..... ' . OLJ) GYM HA,LL -. Student Activities Office, Office of Student Aid; Dean ofStudmts Office, WRUC, and Director of Residence QIJ~'ce are all on the first floor. The Admissions Office ari'f! {ti~i{tdfit to the Dean of Students are upstairs. For any ·in/gr~~!i~ 4/:Jput ft'qdf!nt-ru1r ·acidviUt!s~ -see Mrs. Marta. Most. ·orable~s • Qt/ier ili~P_ !~Off! :m.·vo,lviri$: . (!Cd{iertfilfs, sho.uld be referred to· IJ~an Ma.llQ,y. .. Student' A#l Office handles FinanctatAtd: · The infamous NOTT MEMORIAL where the Mountebanks present their plays, the bookstore presents its prices, and the C~mpus Police p_r~sent their .raw courage. - CONCORDI£NSIS, SEPT. 24. 1971 SILLIMAN HALL contains the College Infirmary where there is a nurse on duty i4 hor,Jrs a day and expanded medical facilities to accommodate sick men and women .... separately. STEINMETZ HALL is where the college's Computer facilities are housed. Formerly the Electrical Engineering Building, Steinmetz has become part of the Science and Engineering Con:plex. Photos by Scott Gordon. Convocation ... Continued from Page 1 anything to stop.\ . Kateb also stated that \serious injury has been done in the name of law and order to the roots ·of law and the Constitution.\ He cited prejudgement of issues not yet decided by the courts, (as in the schoor busing issue) the Organized Crime Bill of 1970, the intimidation of the· press and televisio~, the Pentagon Pa,pers and the mas~ arrests al- the ·Mey Day demonstration ' as 'exainples of this injury. He c6ntended. tliat all of this has been done in the name of law and order \even at the cost of the very thing you are trying to save; as in the case of Vietnam, you have to destroy it to save it.\ The political theorist attributed part .of Nixon's success to the \flash\ which is characteristic of Nixon and his Administration. His announce- ment of new economic China put Ellsberg in a shadow and established the President as a stupendous figure. His announcement of new economic policies took attention away from Lindsay's party switch and possible presidential candidacy. Kateb concluded that Nixon is a textbook example of a restorer. lie stated. that Nixon has applied CQStnetics and used disguises, but has not solved the problems of the . 60's. ''Nixon has demonstrated ... that . keeping the peace in some circumstances is not the same as prorriotipg life.'' Comp Ed Continued from Page 1 petition for Independent Projects (two terms), and the petitions are available in Professor Olton's office, Social Sciences Building. THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - Checks are cashed in the bursar's office from 9 a.m. to noon, and from 1 to 4 p.m. Bring your l.D., and. a nickel. .The Registrar's office handles all course and program· information, andpass-fail requests. Miss Wemple can help you register to vote or for the draft. All financial matters are handled by the Bursar. One-term independent options are available for the first time, though the student must petition the Comp Ed board in the same way. However, for a one-term independent study, the student must specify whether he wishes to have this work count as an option in Center I, Center II or Creativity. Finally, no more than two of the one-term Independent Options may be counted toward a stude·n . .; t:pperclass requirement. The office of the President and of Mr. Bingham, Assistant to the President, are on the second floor. The Oover Patch School, 124 Rosa Road, Schenectady, is looking for volunteers in· several areas •. Anyone interested in working with pre- school age children may sign up for one session per week for the school year. . The hours and programs schedule is available from Mrs. Marra. at the Student Activities Office and work will generally involve either assisting the teacher with the Children, or 3ssisting with office work and general supervision. 8 To all students and activities: The Freshman Records which you ordered last year are now available in the Student Activities Office. Please present either a receipt or identification when picking up your copies. If any students or activities wish copies of the Record and have not previously ordered them, please wait until Tuesday, September 28, to buy your copies. . Transfer students should pick up their copies of the Record before September 28. Identification is mandatory.

gas a a by a y, n y j , l!_• ' \ 1.-. \ \'· I I \ I ' j I·'. I * I I .1 \ . i. ( :,.J ., ( ·. l I I I :~ ' 1 I t i\ I •, J ll,. I ' ... i• '·• .. .. r I OLD GYM HALL - Student Activities Office, Office of Student Aid, Dean of Students Office, WRUC, and Director of Residence Office are all on the first floor. The Admissions Office and ~ssistant to the Dean of Students are upstairs. For any infon:nqtif,i:n_ about student-run aiitivities, see Mrs. Marra. Most problems other tharz those involving academics, should be referred to Dean Malloy. Student Aid Office handles Financial Aid. The infamous NOTT MEMORIAL where the Mountebanks present their plays, the bookstore presents its prices, and the Campus Police present their raw courage. . CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 24, 1971 SILLIMAN HALL contains the College Infirmary where there is a nurse on duty 24 hours a day and expanded medical facilities to accommodate sick men and women. ... separately. STEINMETZ HALL is where the ml!ege's Computer facilities are housed. Formerly the Electrical Engineering Building, Steinmetz has become part of the Science and Engineering Complex. Photos by Scott Gordon. Convocation ... Continued from Page 1 anything to stop.\ Kateb also stated that \serious injury has been done in the name of law and order to the roots of law and the Constitution.\ He cited prejudgement of issues not yet decided by the courts, (as in the school busing issue) the Organiz~:d Crime Bill of 1970, the intimidation of the press and television, the Pentagon Papers and the mas~ arrests at the May Day demonstration as examples of this injury. He contended that all of this has been done in the name of law and order \even at the cost of the very thing you are trying to save; as in the case of Vietnam, you have to destroy it to save it.\ The political theorist attributed part of Nixon's success to the \flash\ which is characteristic of Nixon and his Administration. His announce- ment of new economic China put Ellsberg in a shadow and established the President as a stupendous figure. His announcement of new economic policies took attention away from Lindsay's party switch and possible presidential candidacy. Kateb concluded that Nixon is a textbook example of a restorer. He stated that Nixon has applied cosmetics and used disguises, but has not solved the problems of the 60's. \Nixon has demonstrated ... that keeping the peace in some circumstances is not the same as promoting life.\ ..• '' ,.::;~~\i*·\~~~!~'Jk:>~@t·i'f~i£{));::J~1;;0~N;7 .- ~- -_<.;.,:$;,i;;.~ . .:-:;¢:~~:~. ::<: _.-.;.:;} ~--:· ;S.' Comp Ed Continued from Page 1 petition for Independent Projecb (two terms), and the petitions arc available in Professor Olton's office, Social Sciences Building. THE ADM!NISTRA TJON BUILDING - Checks are cashed in the bursar's office from 9 a.m. to noon, and from 1 to 4 p.m. Bring your J.D. and a nickel. The Registrar's office handles all course and program information, and passfail requests. Miss Wemple can help you register to vote or for the draft. All financial matters are handled by the Bursar. One-term independent options are available for the first timt:, though the student must petition the Comp Ed board in the same way. However. for a one-term independent study, the student must specify whether he wi~hes to have this work count a> an option in Center I, Center II or Creativity. Finally, no more than two of the one-term Independent Options may be counted toward a stude\n ~ --:pperclas~ requireme\t. The office of the President and of Mr. Bingham, Assistant to the President, are on the second floor . The Clover Patch School, 124 Rosa Road, Schenectady, is looking for volunteers in· several areas. Anyone interested in working with pre- school age children may sign up for one session per week for the school year. . The hours and programs schedule is available from Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office and work will generally involve either assisting the teacher with the Children, or assisting with office work and general supervision. ; To all students and activities: The Freshman Records which you ordered last year are now available in the Student Activities Office. Please present either a receipt or identification when picking up your copies. If any students or activities wish copies of the Record and have not previously ordered them, please wait until Tuesday, September 28, to buy your copies. Transfer students should pick up their copies of the Record before September 28. Identification is mandatory. •

CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 24, 1971 Page4 . L .• Concordy Sports .. .::..· EVerling's Debut: 28-20 by l.EAPIN' LEIDERMAN Despite a glaring inability to stop the strong passing game of the Worcester Poly Engineers, Union opened the football season with a solid 28-20 win at Worcester last Saturday. The· victory marked Coach Gerry Everling's debut as Union's head football coach. fullback Curtis Rowe and The first break of the game halfbacks Bruce Mathias and· want WPI's way and the freshman Ron Westbrook Engineers quickly capitalized. enabled the Garnet to gain 237 Union kicked off and held yards rushing, and Reari:c Worcester inside its own 30, but completed 7 of his 12 passes. fumbled on the first series of The Dutchmen utilized a ball- control offense. Led by Quarterback Dave Rearic, a junior, Union picked up 352 total yards. The superb running of Westbrook has to be · downs following WPrs punt. considered the individual hero. The Engineers took the ball in With the loss of his brother, Al, from the 45, with quarterback who starred on last year's varsity Steve Joseph hitting Wayne Pitts baseball and freshman basketball from 16 yards, only 5:39 into the teams, to the Marines, the game. addition of Ron Westbrook to The Dutchmen came back with the Union sports scene 1s a a bang. Just as he got sn()wed welcome one indeed. under by Engineer linemen, larrie Attac~ To Challenge Gridders In Home Opener by BILL HOLLERAN attack in Saturday's home opener Worcester Tech in last week's 28- In a game which Coach Gerry on Alexander Field. 20 Union win. Everling has termed a \turning The perennially tough Larries Against Colby, St. Lawrence point\ in his rookie season as come into toilJ.orrow's contest parlayed a frosh quartenback, a head man at Union, the Garnet owning a 49-7 romp over Colby speedy flanker and two seasoned gridders will attempt to cope and should give the Dutchmen a running backs into their highest with an explosive St. Lawrence much sterner test than did· 'offensive output in 18 years. First ~----------..-...--..._,-... __ • year signal caller Bill Bradley performed sensationally, hitting SfW-4 iluii/.e The New Head Coach· WITH WOODY lsn't that a pennant race out there on the west coast? Did someone say the hockey season begins in three weeks? Will the Celtics be the Celtics this year? And, by the way, isn't there a football season upon us too? Indeed, f!.ete Rozelle's NFL · ·Json is entering its ninth week this weekend, aild tomorrow, the cnion College Dutchmen open the home portion of their 83rd season, pitting their 1-0 record against St. Lawrence. Head coach Gerry Everling's debut last week was a succ~ss, but his troops face a much stiffer challenge from the explosive Larries. Led by freshman quarterback Bill Bradley, they clobbered Colby last week, 47-9. Coach Everling is cautiously· optimistic about this season and sees Saturqay's game as \the turning poirtt.\ The key to the game will be \if we get the lead out of our tails on defense.\ 20 points was too much to yield to Worcester Poly last Saturday even if the Garnet offense did produce 35'2 yeards in that game. A strong defense has always marked Union's success in the past. This year, however, a varied offense may prove to be a good complement to the Dutchmen defense. .The 28-year-old Everling feels he has some \good kids in the backfield. We have more overall speed and better balance.\ Union ran for 237 yards at Worcester and gained an impressive and unexpected 115 yards in the air. Everling has high praise for that backfield which includes quarterback Dave Rearic, fullback Curtis Rowe, and halfbacks Bruce Mathias and Ron Westbrook. From Westbrook, a 5'8\ speedster, the coach \expects a lot of football in four years,\ and he got just that last Saturday as the freshman Westbrook scored twice .. But Everling is not getting much football from upperclassmen this year, and he is faced with a rebuilding year, Union's second in a row. Only 39 upperclassmen reported for preseason practice on September I. The coach expressed disappointment over the thin turnout, saying, \Of course I'm upset, but you can't let it bother you. I have to play with what I've got.\ There's no time for mourning, but some talented ballplayers are missing. .flanker George Lewis with two scoring aerials. Lewis added another touchdown on a punt return, .while veteran backs .Scott Menzies and Rich Grimes each scored once. St. Lawrence will also be matchjng its stingy, often ferocious, defense against Union's own traditionally tough defenders. Line backer Gale KnuU, a graduate of Schenectady's Mont Pleasant High and also a standout wrestler, anchors the Larries' defense along with . halfback· - Butch Goette. Everling views tomorrow's game as a crucial one because recent Union-Larrie contests have had a marked effect on the victor's momentum. Last season the Garnet, in a rebuilding year, topped the Larries 12-3 enroute to a surprising 5-4 year, while the Larries stumbled to a 4-4 mark. In 1968, Union beat St. Lawrence, 7-6, on the way to a 7- 1 log, while in 1969 the Larries did the trick 21-7 and moved on to an identical7-l record. ~IJBE TRY - ' Win Over . WPI Rearic released a 4Z:..yard bomb to Jerry Cuffey. Cuffey, who had beaten his man by 10 yards, was forcecj. to do a complete turnaround and still was wide open for the pass. On the very next play, Westbrook scampered around left end from the 15 for the tying TD. The second quarter began with · a 60-yard Garnet drive in 9 plays, with Rowe scoring from the two. Union clung to its 14-7 lead by bottling up Worcester's highly- touted running .attack. Subsequently,' Jos'eph, in his fourth year. as WPI's quarterback,· : iit'lleashed a successful passing attack. On those .rar:e ·occasions when hjs receivers were covered, Joseph was always able to scramble for substantial yarcdage as the Garnet never pinned him for a loss. Late in that second period, Union stopped the Engineers inside their own five and took over on downs. But the Dutchmen failed t() move the ball · out, an,d Union 1 s punt went out of bounds on its own 25. With 19 seconds remaining in the half, Joseph hit Wayne Pitts once more from four yards out tying the score at 14. Shortly after Union kicker Bobby Mitchell's field goal attempt was blocked ea:rly in the second half, the Garnet regained · the ball on its own 17 and the lead 13 plays later. Though Ron Westbrook was credited with 50 yards rushing for the day, that figure does not include his biggest tun. On third- and-twelve near midfield, Westbrook took a screen pass from Rearic for 30 yards. taking Worcester's kic].coff on the 20 yard line and scoring in nine plays. Bruce Mathias took it the final four yards and Mitchell added his fourth PAT to round out the scoring. Mathias was the game's leading rusher with 76 yards in twelve carrie$, and he teamed with Westbrook on some fine punt and kickoff returns. In · addition to the bomb to Cuffey, Rearic hit Westbrook, Alex \Cooter\ Utecht, and Geoff Walker twice each on shorter passes. The Garnet o£fense looked'steady1ihd efficient. The home !')eason opens Saturday at 1:30 pm, as Union hosts St. Lawrence at Alexander · Field. Next wee·k, the Dutchmen travel to Alfred and return for the homecoming game, -.against the University of Rochester on October 9. Grey, Lega Picked for ECAC Honors · Union's Ken Grey has been named to the first weekly Eastern College Athl.etif' Conference Division lii football squad for his play last _,week against Worcester Poly Thch. Moments later, Ron got his second touchdown of the afternoon, going in unmolested on a three-yard sweep to give · · Union the lead, 21-14. The sophomdre linebacker from Schenectady was also one of three players named \Rookie of the Week.\ Center Skip Lega was given Division III squad honorable mention. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Natt StrHt Schenectady, N. V That was all the scoring until the fourth quarter, when the Engineers capitalized on another break, this time a blocked punt. Recovering on Union's 47, WPI scored in ten plays, with Pitts plunging one yard for his third TD. The extra-point attempt was blocked by defensive halfback Mike Raab, and the Garnet held onto a one'-point lead. They bounced right back, Moffett's Liquor Sto.:e (Across The Held) 1505 VanVranken Aw. .· . Fl 7..0510 FOUNtAIN SERVICE One block from. ltoW..ell Gat·· DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our fin• Homo Cooked ltalilln Food in Out C~mfortable Oini~~ ·Room OPfl. fhe lrownoll Gate .on t;llott ·srr.tt Open Doily 1 0 to I A.M, Sundayt 5 ·P.M. to 1 A.M. Academic misfortune claimed tight end Barton Conrad, lineman Bill Slivka, and last year's leading rusher, John Swanko, whom Everling especially misses. Linebacker Don Le Bart is spending this fall in France, along with backup quarterback Mike Hogan. All five were part of last year's impressive corps of sophomores. And Everling estimates another half dozen or more players had to drop out for financial reasons or \just didn't want to play this year.\ Six freshmen are listed on this year's roster of but 48 players, and they are ineligible for the last thtee games of the year, against opponents from the new Engla:nd Small College Athletic Con- ference. The NESCAC has ruled freshmen may not play in league football games. I M·AMA. 'BIANCHI~s- RfSTA:URANT 11~5 Barrett ·St. Dfspite all tl1is, Gerry Everling was a winner last week and now points to the St. Lawrence game, the first .of three bruisers in a row. With Alfred and Rochester following the Larries, he is right in calling this the make-or-break part of the season. He will be happy with a 5-4 record, but that will do little for Union's all time record in \the college game.\ For all the hoopla around football here, in 83 years, the Garnet ha'Ve managed only a 258-298-60 Won-lost-tied record. But get out there and cheer anyway. As far as I know, students are still admitted to the stands free, and you can always swig out of your neighbor's bottle. · ' Real Italian f·ood Cooked · To . Order W-; Cater .. To Students. 1he Friendliest Place in Town DI'EI 1'0 · 3 A,M. FRI~ -1111111. SAT,· l)~ t : i ' L ~~~ .·· . i ~ I +._,·, ·~ .· .~ ' (: \ j 'I \, ll.

CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 24. 1971 Page4 L Concordy Sports Everling's Debut: 28-20 Win Over WPI taking Worcester's kickoff on the 2G yard line and scoring in nine plays. Druce Mathias took it the final four yards and Mitchell added his fourth PAT to round out the scoring. by LEAPIN' LEIDERMAN Despite a glaring inability to stop the strong passing game of the Worcester Poly Engineers, Union opened the football season with a solid 28-20 win at Worcester last Saturday. The victory marked Coach Gerry Everling's debut as Union's head football coach. The Dutchmen utilized a ball- control offense. Led by Quarterback Dave Rearic, a junior. Union picked up 35 2 total yards. The superb running of fullback Curtis Rowe and halfbacks Bruce Mathias and freshman Ron Westbrook enabled the Garnet to gain 237 yards rushing. and Rearic completed 7 of his 12 passes. Westbrook has to be considered the individual hero. With the loss of his brother, AI, who starred on last year's varsity baseball and freshman basketball teams, to the Marines, the addition of Ron Westbrook to the Union sports scene is a 1Nelcome one indeed. The first break of the game w:mt WPI's way and the Engineers q1:1ickly capitalized. Union kicked off and held Worcester inside its own 30, b1:1t fumbled on the first series of downs following WPI's punt. The Engineers took the ball in from the 45, with quarterback Steve Joseph hitting Wayne Pitts from 16 yards, only 5:39 into the game. The Dutchmen came back with a bang. Just as he got snowed under hy Engineer linemen. Rearic released a 42-yard bomb to Jerry Cuffey. Cuffey., who had beaten his man by 10 yards, was forced to do a complete turnaround and still was wide open for the pass. On the very next play, Westbrook sca:rnpered around left end from the 15 for the tying TD. The second quarter began with a 60-yard Garnet drive in 9 plays, with Rowe scoring from the two. Union clung to its 14-7 lead by bottling up Worcester's highly- touted running attack. larrie Attack To Challenge Gridders In Home Opener Subsequently, Joseph, in his fourth year as WPI's quarterback, unleashed a successful passing attack. On those rare occasions when his receivers were covered, Joseph was always able to scramble for substantial yardage as the Garnet never pinned him for a loss. Late in that second period, Union stopped the Engineers inside their own five and took over on downs. But the Dutchmen failed to move the ball out, and Union's punt went out of bounds on its own 25. With 19 seconds remaining in the half, Joseph hit Wayne Pitts once more from four yards out tying the score at 14. Mathias was the game's leading rusher with 76 yards in twelve carries, and he teamed with Westbrook on some fine punt and kickoff returns. In addition to the bomb to Cuffey, Rearic hit Westbrook, Alex \Cooter\ Utecht, and Geoff Wa~ker twice each on shorter passes. The Garnet offense looked steady and efficient. Ttte home season opens Saturday at 1:30 pm, as Union hosts St. Lawrence at Alexander Field. Next week, the Dutchmen travel to Alfred and return for the homecoming game, against the University of Rochester on October 9. by BILL HOLLERAN In a game which Coach Gerry Everling has termed a ••turning point\ in his rookie season as head man at Union, the Garnet gridders will attempt to cope with an explosive St. Lawrence attack in Saturday's home opener on Alexander Field. The perennially tough Larries come into tom.orrow's contest owning a 49-7 romp over Colby and should give the Dutchmen a much sterner test than did. ------------------· SpMt4 fi~Viik The New Head Coach WITH WOODY Isn't that a pennant race out there on the west coast? Did someone say the hockey season hegins in three weeks? Will the Celtics be the Celtics this year? And, by the way, isn't there a football season upon us too? Indeed, P.ete Rozelle's :'>rFI -;on is entering its ninth week this weekend, and tomorrow. the l nion College Dutchmen open the home portion of their 83rd season, pitting their 1-0 record against St. Lawrence. Head coach Gerry Everling's debut last week was a success, but his troops face a much stiffer challenge from the explosive Larries. Led by freshman quarterback Bill Bradley, they clobbered Colby last week, 47-9. Coach Everling is cautiously optimistic about this season and sees Saturday's game as \the turning point.\ The key to the game will be \if we get the lead out of our tails on defense.\ 20 points was too much to yield to Worcester Poly last Saturday even if the Garnet offense did produce 352 yeards in that game. A strong defense has always marked Union's success in the past. This year, however, a varied offense may prove to be a good complement to the Dutchmen defense. The 28-year-old Everling feels he has some \good kids in the backfield. We have more overall speed and better balance.\ Union ran for 237 yards at Worcester and gained an impressive and unexpected I 15 yards in the air. Everling has high praise for that backfield which includes quarterback Dave Rearic, fullback Curtis Rowe, and halfbacks Bruce Mathias and Ron Westbrook. From Westbrook, a 5'8\ speedster. the coach \'expects a lot of football in four years,\ and he got just that last Saturday as the freshman Westbrook scored twice. But Everling is not getting much football from upperclassmen this year, and he is faced with a rebuilding year, Union's second in a row. Only 39 upperclassmen reported for preseason practice on September I. The coach expressed disappointment over the thin turnout, saying, \Of course I'm upset. but you can't let it bother you. I have to play with what I've got.\ There's no time for mourning, but some talented ballplayers are missing. Academic misfortune claimed tight end Barton Conrad, lineman Bill Slivka. and last year's leading rusher, John Swanko, whom Everling especially misses. Linebacker Don Le Bart is spending this fall in France, along with backup quarterback Mike Hogan. All five were part of last year's impressive corps of sophomores. And Everling estimates another half dozen or more players had to drop out for financial reasons or \just didn't want to play this year.\ Six freshmen are listed on this year's roster of but 48 players, and they are ineligible for the last three games of the year, against opponents from the new England Small College Athletic Con- ference. The NESCAC has ruled freshmen may not play in league football games. QGspite all this, Gerry Everling was a winner last week and now points to the St. Lawrence game, the first of three bruisers in a row. With Alfred and Rochester following the Larries, he is right in calling this the make-or-break part of the season. He will be happy with a 5-4 record, but that will do little for Union's alltime record in \the college game.\ For all the hoopla around football here, in 83 years, the Garnet have managed only a 258-298-60 won-lost-tied record. But get out there and cheer anyway. As far as I know, students are still admitted to the stands free, and you can always swig out of your neighbor's bottle. Worcester Tech in last week's 28- 20 Union win. Against Colby, St. Lawrence parlayed a frosh quarterback, a speedy flanker and two seasoned running backs into their highest 'offensive output in 18 years. First year signal caller Bill Bradley performed sensationally, hitting flanker George Lewis with two scoring aerials. Lewis added another touchdown on a punt return, while veteran backs Scott Menzies and Rich Grimes each scored once. St. Lawrence will also be matching its stingy, often ferocious, defense against Union's own traditionally tough defenders. Linebacker Gale Knull, a graduate of Schenectady's Mont Pleasant High and also a standout wrestler, anchors the Larries' defense along with halfback Butch Goette. Everling views tomorrow's game as a crucial one because recent Union-Larrie contests have had a marked effect on the victor's momentum. Last season the Garnet, in a rebuilding year, topped the Larries 12-3 enroute to a surprising 5-4 year, while the Larries stumbled to a 4-4 mark. In 1968, Union beat St. Lawrence, 7-6, on the way to a 7- 1 log, while in 1969 the Larries did the trick 21-7 and moved on to an identical 7-1 record. \Sp~ CURE ~ II tJJU TRY <tlnld ~utk Shortly after Union kicker Bobby Mitchell's field goal attempt was blocked early in the second half, the Garnet regained the ball on its own 17 and the lead 13 plays later. Though Ron Westbrook was credited with 50 yards rushing for the day, that figure does not include his biggest run. On third- and-~welve near midfield, Westbrook took a screen pass from Rearic for 30 yards. Moments later, Ron got his second touchdown of the afternoon, going in unmolested on a three-yard sweep to give Union the lead, 21-14. That was all the scoring until the fourth quarter, when the Engineers capitalized on another break, this time a blocked punt. Recovering on Union's 47, WPI scored in ten plays, with Pitts plunging one yard for his third TD. The extra-point attempt was blocked by defensive halfback Mike Raab, and the Garnet held onto a one-point lead. They bounced right back, Moffett's Liquor Stor.e (Across lhl· Fidd l 1505 VanVranken Aw. Grey, lega Picked for ECAC Honors Union's Ken Grey has been named to the first weekly Eastern College Athletic Conference Division III football squad for his play last week against Worcester Poly Tech. The sophomore linebacker from Schenectady was also one of three players named \Rookie of the Week.\ Center Skip Lega was given Division III squad honorable mention. FERRO PHARMACY 575 NoH Street Schenectady, N. Y Fl 7-0510 FOUNTAIN SUVIc.E One block from lrownetl Gat• DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our fine Home Cooked Italian food in Ou• C~mfortable Dining Room Opp. Th• lrawnoll Got• on No\ Street Open OoiJy 1 0 to A.M, Sundays S P.M. to ' A.M. ~MAMA BIANCHI'·$- RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett ·St. \ Real Italian Food Cooked ·To Order we· Cater . to Students The Friendliest Place in Town OI'EN \AA 3 A.M. FRI •. alld SAT. '\· ' ' ' '\' 1 t. ·~ .. •, ,, .. I •. ·'' : :l '·. ,,

. 'l:,,r{- :~~ ~·::~ .i i . t 'l'~; ~,it:' .... t : I , ~ 1~ .. ; \ j ·I 1, l) ' l I ' ) ,,...:~ Founded at Union College 1877 .- ' - - - . SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK SEPTEMBER 28, 1971 PR!.CE TWENTY CENTS Faculty, Chairmen Newly Appointed. Union placekicker Bob Mitchell kicks a 20 yard field goal in the .second quarter of Saturday's 24-17 win over St. Lawrence. ·He also filled in for the injured starting · quarterback Dave Rearic in spectacular fashion, completing 16 of 28 passes for 194 yards and two touchdowns. New Gooernance; ACS Election Near The Social Committee will hold its organizational meeting this year on Tuesday, October 5, at 7:30 p;m., instead 'of Thursday, September 30 as originally planned. All students interested in working with the Social Committee are mged to attend this meeting in Hale House Student Lounge, where future plans of the eommittee wiD also be discu~ed. ' Petitions for representatives to the All College Senate . · and associate members on the college Board of Trustees are. now available in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. · Candidates for divisional seats on the ACS need 50 signatures from their division. Candidates for the at..:large seat and the junior and senior associate memberships on the Board of Trustees need 150 signatures from the entire undergraduate population. For purposes of petitioning and voting the divisions will be split as follows: Division I; Arts majors, Classics majors, English majors, Modern Language majors, Philosophy majors and all Center I interdepartmental majors. bivision II; History majors, Sociology m?jors, Political Science majors and Economics majors. P.Y.E .. Meets To Organize Division III; Biology majors, chemistry majors, Psychology majors. Division JV; Math majors, Physics majors, Mechanical, Electrical and Ci vii Engineering majors, arid all interdivisional and interdepartmental majors in · 'Center II. All students not c:overed by the above explanations should consider themselves voters from the division in which their faculty advisor resides. Any questions about the election procedure should be directed to David Robbins at 372- 0804. The \Flying Burrito Brothers\ will appear in Concert at Memorial Chapel on Friday, October 8, and tickets ($3.00 for Union Students in advance,· $4 for • others and at the door) can be purchased- at the Student Activities O:lfice. October 5 Deadline for Graduate Record Exam Educational Testing Service The Graduate Record has announced that Examinations include an undergraduates and others Aptitude Test of general preparing to go to graduate scholastic ability and Advanced school may take the Grad_uate Tests measuring achievement in Record Examinations on any of 19 major field of study. Full six different test dates during the details and registration forms for current academic year. ·the GRE are contained in the The first testing date for the 1971-72 GRE Information GREis October 23, 1971. Scores Bulletin. This booklet is available from this administration will be on most campuses or may be reported to the schools around ordered from the Educational December l. Students planning Testing Service, Box · 955, _to register for the October test Princeton, New Jersey 08540. New chairmen for the departments of sociology, physics and economics a~d an acting chairman for the department of modern languages have been announced by the college. Appointed to head the department of physics was Dr. Kenneth L. Shick, an associate professor while Dr. John R. McNamara, an assistant professor, will become economics department chairman. Both will serve three-year terms. Dr. Paul 0. LeClerc, an associate professor of French, will head the modern languages department next year, filling in for Dr. Frederick A. Klemm, who will be on sabbatical leave. Dr. Shick, a member of the Union faculty since 1959, is a graduate of Columbia University and ·earned his doctorate at Rutgers University. ln 1965-66, he taught at the Leiden University School of Medicine in the Netherlands under a joint National Science Founda- tion/NATO fellowship. Dr. McNamara is also a graduate of Columbia University and earned his doctorate from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. He has been a member of the Union faculty since 1969. Dr. LeClerc, at Union since 1966, is a graduate of Holy Cross College with graduate work at the University of Paris and a d9ctorate from Columbia University. He spent this summer in France under a National Endowment for the Humanities research grant. Dr. Harry L. Gracey has been appointed chairman of the Department of Sociology. Dr. Gracey, a graduate of Antioch College, earned his doctorate from the New School for Social Research in 1967. To compensate for those faculty members who left Union last year, and the increasing enrollment, twelve people have ·been appointed to full-time positions on the faculty and staff. Dr. George M. Butterstein, who earned his doctorate in 197 I from Rutgers, joins the Union staff as an Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences. Two new faculty members have been added in the Chemistry Department. Thomas C. Werner, who completed his doctorate at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1969, is now an Assistant Professor of Chemistry, while Peter R. Frosch (PhD., California Institute of Technology, 1969) comes to Union as an Associate Professor. , Donald W. Griesinger, PhD., California at Santa Barbara, 1979, is a new Associate Prof. of Industrial Administration and Behavioral Science. Also joining the Industrial Administration Department is Donald E. Robison, a Professor who received his doctorate in 1962 from Ohio State. Barry K. Smith, wllo received his M.F.A. from Yale in 1971, is an Assistant Professor in the Arts. Union's faculty is augmented by a Visiting Assistant Professor of Classics, Helen Testroet, PhD. Continued on Page 3 The Schenectady PYE (Protect Your Environment) Club will hold its first meeting on Thursday, September 30, at 7:30 in the Social Science Lounge. This will serve as the organizational meeting for this year's projects. date are advised that applications · I A M 1 I c h I receivedbyETSafterOctober5 Ta•J or ·t ' emorla . ape·. wi~~~c~~e~t;i~=g~:;:t~~::e~re ':J . · . . ' PYE is now affiliated with Schenectady County's \Pace II\ program, a continuation of last spring's highly successful recycling drive. Cardboard boxes for newspapers and crushed cans will again be placed on dormitory floors and campus offices for the recyding project. Other projects to be undertaken include: a speaker and film series on environmental topics, · investigative work, public information services and lobbying efforts. If yo11 are interested in becoming a member but will be unable to attend the first meeting, ple1;1.se contact Tom ~undquist in 31~ Davidson (#370- . p232). . ! December 11, 1971, January 15, G 1 1 I F c February 26, April 22, and June · u· 1tar1st n · ree oncert 17, 1972. Equivalent late fee and · _ · _ · _ _ • · registration deadlines apply to these d-ates. There wiD be an important meeting for all students interested in participating in the Term in Israel on Monday, October 4, at 4:30 p.m. in Humanities 113. It is not too late for anyone . interested in the program to participate, but attendance at . this meeting is essential. For further i-nformation concerning the program, see Professor Stephen M. Berk, Jlistory. \ Danny taylor, folk-rock guitarist, will appear in Memorial Chapel Thursday, September 30 at 8 p.m. The concert will be free and is sponsored by Union Christian Fellowship. There has been much talk of late about the Jesus Movement, that growing band of people who are discovering Jesus and His life- style. Look magazine, Time magazine, the New York times, and even the Schenectady Gazette have all carried lengthy ·articles describing , the movem~nt's .. bouyant atmosphere of hope and love along with the usual rebel zeal.\ (That's from the Time article of June 21 ) Danny Taylor has been part of the Jesus Revolution for the past several years, and as co-founder of the Jesus commune \Love- Inn\ in 1 .lthaca, N. Y ., 1 he has played a major part in influencing the eastern U.S. Jesus scene. Before turning on to Jesus, Danny played with a rock group which had ~anded . a record contract with a major recording studio. Busted for drugs, Danny spent several months trying to prove his case. Thoroughly disillusioned with the Hollywood scene, he became aware through a friend (who is now his wife) of Jesus and -the Christian life-style. In 1969 Danny established a record and publishing company called Neoteric Sounds, Inc. and produced his first L.P. \Taylor Made.\ Today, Danny is host of an Ithaca T.V. show called the \Upper Room.\ He visited the Union campus two years ago and sang in several dormitory lounges .

s r r n n ' ,, r 1 .. .. .. .~. ) I ,, .. ·' t I 'I , I : :1 '·' ,, I ! Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK SEPTEMBER 28, 1971 PR~CE TWENTY CENTS Union placekicker Bob Mitchell kicks a 20 yard field goal in the second quarter of Saturday's 24-17 win over St. Lawrence. He also filled in for the injured starting quarterback Dave Rearic in spectacular fashion, completing 16 of 28 passes for 194 yards and two touchdowns. New Gouernance: ACS Election Near Petitions for representatives to the All College Senate and associate members on the college Board of Trustees are now available in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. Candidates for divisional seats on the ACS need 50 signatures from their division. Candidates for the at-large seat and the junior and senior associate memberships on the Doard of Trustees need 150 signatures from the entire undergraduate population. For purposes of petitioning and voting the divisions will be split as follows: Division III; Biology majors, chemistry maJors, Psychology majors. Division IV; Math majors, Physics majors, Mechanical, Electrical and Civil Engineering majors, and all interdivisional and interdepartmental majors in · Center II. All students not covered by the above explanations should consider themselves voters from the division in which their faculty advisor resides. Any questions about the election procedure should be directed to David Robbins at 372- 0804. The Social Committee will hold its organizational meeting this year on Tuesday, October 5, at 7:30 p.m., instead of Thursday, September 30 as originally planned. All students interested in working with the Social Committee are urged to attend tbis meeting in Hale House Student Lounge, where future plans of the committee will also be discuS'jed. The \Flying Burrito Brothers\ will appear in Concert at Memorial Chapel on Friday, October 8, and tickets ($3.00 for Union Students in advance, $4 for others and at the door) can be purchased at the Student Activities Office. Division I; Arts majors, Classics majors, English majors, Modern Language majors, Philosophy majors and all Center I interdepartmental majors. Division II~ History majors. October 5 Deadline for Graduate Record Exam Sociology majors. Political Science majors and Economics majors. P.Y.E. Meets To Organize Educational Testing Service has announced that undergraduates and others preparing to go to graduate school rna) take the Grad_uate Record Examinations on any of six different test dates during the current academic year. The Graduate Record Examinations include an Aptitude Test of general scholastic ability and Advanced Tests measuring achievement in 19 major field of study. Full details and registration forms for the GRE are contained in the 1971-72 GRE Information Bulletin. This booklet i~ available on most campuse~ or ma) he ordered from the Educational Testing Service. Box 955, Princeton. :'\lew Jersey OS540. Faculty, Chairmen Newly Appointed chair men tor the departments of :-ociolog). ph~ ~~e~ and economics and an acting chairman for the department of modern languages ha\e hecn announced b;.. the college. Appointed to head the department of ph~ sics \\as Dr. Kenneth 1.. Shick. an associate professor \\ hile Dr. John R. :vtc~amara. an assistant professor. v.ill hecome economic~ department chairman. Both \1 ill sene three-;..ear terms. Dr. Paul 0. LeClerc, an associate professor of French. will head the modern languages department next )ear, filling in for Dr. Frederick A. Klemm, who will be on sabbatical leave. Dr. Shick. a member of the Union faculty since 1959, is a graduate of Columbia University and earned his doctorate at Rutgers University. In 1965-66, he taught at the Leiden University School of Medicine in the Netherlands under a joint National Science Founda- tion/NATO fellowship. Dr. McNamara is also a graduate of Columbia University and earned his doctorate from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. He has been a member of the Union faculty since 1969. Dr. LeClerc, at Union since 1966, is a graduate of Holy Cross College with graduate work at the University of Paris and a doctorate from Col urn bia University. He spent this summer in France under a National Endowment for the Humanities research grant. Dr. Harry L. Gracey has been appoimed chairman nt the Departmt'nt tll Socwlog~. Dr. Gract'~. a graduate t'l ·\ntttlL'h College. earned hi~ doctorate from tht' '\'t'v. Schtltll ft'r Sucial Research in !96 ~ To compen:-.ate tor tho~c facult) member' \\ ho left l'nton last ~ear. and the increa,in.[.! enwllmcnt. t\>ehe people ha\ e hecn appointed to full-time position:-. on the facult~ and ~tall. Dr. Cieorge \-1. Butterqein. \\ ho t'arned his doctorate in 1971 from Rutgers. join~ thl.' l'nil'Tl staff a!'> an Assistant Pwk~~~H of Biological Sciences. T\\o ne\\ faeult;.. member~ have been added in the Chemistry Department. Thomas C. Werner. who completed his doctorate at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1969, is now an Assistant Professor of Chemistry, while Peter R. Frosch (PhD.. California Institute of Technology, 1969) comes to Union as an Associate Professor. Donald W. Griesinger, PhD., California at Santa Barbara, 1970, is a new Associate Prof. of Industrial Administration and Behavioral Science. Also joining the Industrial Administration Department is Donald E. Robison, a Professor who received his doctorate m I 962 from Ohio State. Barry K. Smith, who received his M.F.A. from Yale in 1971. is an Assistant Professor in the Arts. Union's faculty is augmented by a Visiting Assistant Professor of Classics, Helen Testroet, PhD. Continued on Page 3 The Schenectad} PYE (Protect Your Environment) Cluh \~ill hold its first meeting on lhursda:-. September 30. at 7:30 111 the Social Science Lounge. This will serve as the organizational meeting for this year's projects. PYE IS now affiliated with Schenectady County's \Pace II\ program. a continuation of last spring's highly successful recycling drive. Cardboard boxes for newspapers and crushed cans will agam be placed on dormitory floors and campus offices for the recycling project. Other projects to be undertaken include: a speaker and film series The first testing date for the GRE is October 23. 1971. Score~ from this administration will be reported to the schools around December l. Students planning to register for the October test date are advised that applications received by ETS after October 5 will incur a late registration fee. The other five test dates are December II, I 971, January 15, February 26, April 22. and June 17. 1972. Equivalent late fee and registration deadlines apply to these dates. Taylor At Memorial Chapel; Guitarist In Free Concert on environmental topics, investigative work, public information services and lobbying efforts. If you are interested in becoming a member but will be unable to attend the first meeting, please contact Tom Lundquist in 313 Davidson (#370- 0232). There will be an important meeting for all students interested in participating in the Term in Israel on Monday, October 4, at 4:30 p.m. in Humanities 113. It is not too late for anyone interested in the program to participate, but attendance at this meeting is essential. For further information concerning the program, see Professor Stephen M. Berk, History. Danny Taylor, folk-rock guitarist. will appear in Memorial Chapel Thursday, September 30 at 8 p.m. The concert will be free and is sponsored by Union Christian Fellowship. There has been much talk of late about the Jesus Movement, that growing band of people who are discovering Jesus and His life- style. Look magazine, Time magazine, the New York Times, and even the Schenectady Gazette have all carried lengthy articles describing the movement's \houyant atmosphere of hope and lo\.e along with the usual rebel zeal.\ (That's from the Time article of June 21 ) Danny Taylor has been part of the Jesus Revolution for the past several years, and as co-founder of the Jesus commune \Love- Inn\ in ,Ithaca, N.Y.,'he has played a major part in influencing the eastern U.S. Jesus scene. Defore turning on to Jesus, Danny played with a rock group which had landed a record contract with a major recording studio. nusted for drug~. Dann:- ~rent several months tr) ing to prove his case. Thorough!) disillusioned with the Holl;.. v. ood scene, he became a\.\arc through a friend (who is now his wife) of Jesus and the Christian life-St) le. In 1969 Dann} established a record and publishing company called Neoteric Sounds, Inc. and produced his first L. P. ··Taylor Made.\ Today, Danny is host of an Ithaca T.V. show called the ··upper Room.\ He visited the Union campus two years ago and sang in several dormitory lounges.

\' . .. ;~ Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 28, 1971 Qlnnror Managing Editor Doug Wong Business Manager Jo;,cph Achenbaum Subscription~ Manager Mtchacl Hurle) Edit or-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff News Editor Patty Sipe Sports Editor George S. Hain Copy Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors Wtlham Holleran Mike Meserole Features Editor Matthew Swartz Photography Editors Jody Saslow Charles Long A.ssoc. Photography Editor Dave Conrey Puhlishcd luesda)' ~nd 1-riday~ during the school year by the student bod) of UHion College, Schenectad), N.Y .. , National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy. $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. ·Insecurity There is nothing more disconcerting than a problem which, despite numerous attempts at solution, constantly returns. Once ~gain, we are facing a security problem here at Union, and it threatens to .grow out of proportion unless something is done very soon. One campus fraternity has already suffered the loss of two color televisions within the last two weeks and many of the security innovations developed last year are in a state of debilitation. The front doors of Fox and Davidson, which are supposed to be locked at night and reopened in the morning, are often open at night and locked throughout the day. The Davidson Lounge is much emptier than it was two years ago and the quantity of furniture diminishes daily. . · . · . · . It is ctearly ti_me for a re-eValuation o( sec\lrity _priorities het.e at Union. Perhaps there W.ould be .some value in establishing an ~d hoc committee on Security (ala Governance) to determine security methods which would be most comprehensive and convenient for all those involved. Another problem, dosely related to that of security, is that of the growing bicycle population on campus, The lounges and laundry rooms of the dorms are grossly inadequate when it comes to housing bicycles. Possibilities for solution seem to point to the purchasing of bicycle racks for dorms and major classroom facilities. This would not only result in a more aesthetically pleasing situation regarding the storing of bicycles, but will also afford the cyclists a greater sense of assurance that their machines will not be stolen. \Seats Reserved $6, ss. $4 Th.e Au.thori:tcd Robert Stigwood Company Complete Concert Presentation ,...L.S.S. PALACE THEATER OCTOBER 4th. TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: DROME SOUND, AlBANY/MOHAWK MALL, VAN CURLER MUSIC, ALBANV/SCH .• MUSIC SHACK, TROY. PlACE THEATER, TARTS MON. 11 A.M. to 5:30P.M. 2 SHOWS -7 and 10 P.M. Reality: ;fact. or fiction· j by MATTHEW SWAll'fZ · the two individuals would be FQrther, -with the advent 9f the By asking 'yourself, ''Am 1 precisely aligned. atotnic explosions in the Pacific living a real existense?\ we can Consequently,· after· a few and the increase of radiation in simply delve into the relevance ·of seconds, the people could the · atmosphere, the spinal this question and eliminate a lot converse freely without the glomerulus b.as n:ow m one of introductory garbage. Well, burden of words! Apparently, generation's time, degenerated to chances are if you're reading this what had' taken place was an a vest.igial <;>rgan of less relevance you're breathing and carrying on augm.entatioh of the electrical than the appendix. other biological processes so you activity of the brain by.. the spinal S.o, people today continue to are living. But, are you living, cord and the spinal glomerulus to diift further apart due to their re~dly? For what logical reasons the point where the individuals inability to u$e words effectively do you roll over in the morning, could actually hear each Gther's and create. f~cades so get your ass to class and try for thought patterns. impregnable. that even· the most that elusive A in freshman I'm sure you cah appreciate the friendly and honest. of people cytohybernetics? To make th~ intense doubt with .. which this finds himself op.po_sed \by dean's list? To go to the best discovery was received. In fact, suspicion a~d distrus·t. All is not graduate school? To get a loving people were so sceptical that los.t, Synaponauth (now living in kiss from your mother? I win not Synaponauth was removed from Ward, Colorado where I met him try to put any of these down as his position in the University on_ this summer) tells us. This· new each is perfectly acceptable and the grounds of insanity and could gl;!neratiot( born since the an achievement in its own right. not find a pl:lblisher to take the \ election 'Of 1964 shows evidence However, we must not lose sight manuscript he had written on the 0f displea~>ute toward the old of the Qualitative Synaponauthic subject. The ensuing events can need for intense personality Theory of Pathological be found in any elementary evaluation and more willing to Interpetmeation. It is for just .school history book; a major !oye for n_?. ~ette~ reason than the that reason I am writing this catastrophe b-y · ommission. reality oHove. article. Sellinger Synaponauth (pronounced sin ... ria - .pon' - auth), a Scottish novelist of the late twenties, realizing · the decay~q state of the internatienal economy, began considering how the wo.rld's population was going to remain at peace when, he Went on in his own inimitable fashion, \brother was going to watch brother pass on from want of mind and mouth.\ (he had a tendency to speak in blatant redundancies) Using volunteers from the University of Edinborough, he found thllt if a person could be taught to train each of his eyes to the corresponding wrist of his standing counterpart and vice versa (in other words, looking slightly outward and downward' a phenomenon occurred. The center of the looker's brain would be exactly trained on the center of the pelvic region of the other causing a perfect infinity transfer of thought waves. Brain to pelvis, pelvis to brain, brain to pelvis, etc., until the patholgies of KINGSIZE WATERBEI>S $15.95 - 20 year guarantee; fast delivery; Heavenly Waterworks, 662 Ipswich St., Boca Raton, Fla. 33432; Tel. 391-9406 WANTED Female To Cook Dinners Free Meal Pins $5.00 a Week Call 346-2652 Coeds, are you interested in earning a 15% commission? If so, be a member of the Concordy Business Staif. Contact either Joe Achenbaum in 153 Davidson or Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. Fi.rst .. Tr.i.at,· · D:·ate·· .. -Set. for Goverance. • Riport. by WALTEll SfENCEJl . - .. Editor's note: Walter Spencer was President ofthe Student Body at Union during the 1970-11 a~dernie year. In this capacity, he served as Vice•Chairman of the ad hoc · Cqmmittet.:, pn Governance, which iSsued a report at the encl of Winter Term l'l7l. The recomrnendations of the Governance Co~J~mittee are, at this .time, undergoing a one-year trial. Classes are larger at Union this year than they have been in dte . past, and tuition is higher. Faculty members who are reputed to . be excellent instructors are not being considered for tenure because the trustees have ruled that only 60% of the faculty shall be tenured at any one time. · Students have been concerned about these and other developments' throughout the last four years. at Union. This year, more than ever before, students have a means of acting Qn the basis of their concern. The Governance Report givef' students nearly one- third (7 of 23) of the votes in the main campu,\S legislative body, the . All College Senate. 1n adaition, students are given two associate members on the Board of Trustees. For the first time, students have become equal partners in the governance process. What many students do not realize, however, is that there was a great deal of vigorous discussion among faculty and administrative members of the Governance Committee, before the idea of students as members of an All College Senate was accepted. At first, the general sentiment was one of reservation toward giving students so much influence over the academic life of the college. Committee members were more impressed by the quality of student participation within the committee than by the force of student arguments. Students must be careful, though, not to take their new role for granted. Many members of faculty and administration who did not serve on the committee have serious misgivings about the wisdom of the new systeni:\ Many of them will look toward the elections to be held on October ll, as a test of student interest and responsibility. The efficacy of the student role will be judged by the number of voters in the upco~ing elections. Let's assert our will on Union. Vote on October ll. ~IJBE TRY \Sp~ :1-fiJu'' cttold !l.~tk Moffett's Liquor Store (Across The Field) 1505 -Van Vrankcrt A vc. SPRING SEMESTER-ISRAEL For Hum·anities Students Brandeis University/The Jacob Hiatt Institute Study centered in Jerusalem/February - June, 1972. Limited to 30 students. Juniors, Seniors and Grad students eligible. Four courses/History, Literature, Archaeology, Bible. Earn 16 credits. Knowledge Hebrew or Arabic preferred . of Cost $2000/Tuition, room, board, round•trip travel . THE HIATT INSTITUTE Brandeis pniversity Application deadline November lst. . j ' ~. ! ! i~ < ·. : : Walthall),. M.as$·achtl$etts .~215,4< . ' '' . \,'' ... .•. '! I ·.' j .. : .\ \ ' ., .i ., ' ' 'I ..

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 28, 1971 Olnttrnr '\ianaging Editor Doll!' Wong Bu;.,int..,, \tanager J,, .. ,·rh \chc·nh~wrn I Suh,cription~ \1anagcr \!J,h.tc·! flurln Editor-in-Chief I out'S Smtkoll ';,;e\~ Editor Patti '>lp<: Sport>. Editor ( •c:nrgc·..., Ba1n ( op~ Editor < •• ul \\ <\•ourn.tr~ ( ontributing Editor' \\ dlJalll Holkr.trt \1IL' \h:,L'I••Ic Features Editor !\1attht:~ s~artl Photography Editors .I od~ Sa '>io\\ Char],., l.ong A~~uc. Photograph) Editor Da\t.· Conr.:1 p,,hl\hc·d luc•,d;l\' .tnd I r:tL!\'. dunn~ tht' ·.di<•<d lt':tr h1 the ·.tudent h·•tll ·•I I nt\n ( nlkgc. Sc·hr.:nt:c·tau~. \ 'l . '\attonal 1\t.ilerti!;Jng Repre~enta111e. '\atwnal rducatlunal Ad1erti~ing Sen1ce. Inc .. College l'u hli,hel\ Rt:prt:,entall\L'. ~60 l.t'\ln),.rt on A 1e .. :\. Y .C. Editorial office. Old (i~ rn. \ 1 n1on College. l'uhlicatwn Office. rhe World Publications. 771 State Street, Schenectady, !\. Y. 12307. 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cent' a cop). $6 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Insecurity There is nothing more disconcerting than a problem which, despite numerous attempts at solution, constantly returns. Once again, we are facing a security problem here at Union, and it threatens to grow out of proportion unless something is done very soon. One campus fraternity has already suffered the loss of two color televisions within the last two weeks and many of the security innovations developed last year are in a state of debilitation. The front doors of Fox and Davidson, which are supposed to be locked at night and reopened in the morning, are often open at night and locked throughout the day. The Davidson Lounge is much emptier than it was two years ago and the quantity of furniture diminishes daily. It is clearly time for a re-evaluation of security priorities here at Union. Perhaps there would be some value in establishing an ad hoc committee on Security (a Ia Governance) to determine security methods which would be most comprehensive and convenient for all those involved. Another problem, closely related to that of security, is that of the !!rowing bicycle population on campus. The lounges and laundry rooms of the dorms are grossly inadequate when it comes to housing bicycles. Po!.sihilities for solution seem to point to the purchasing of hicyclc rach for dorms and major classroom lacilities. This would not onl) result in a more aesthetically pleasing ~ituatinn regarding the ~toring of bicycles. but will also afford the c~ cl!st\ a grea tcr ~ense of a!-.~Urancc that their machine!, will not be ~tolen. All Seats Reserved $6, SS, $4 The Authorixed Robert Stigwood Company Complete Concert PALACE THEATER OCTOBER 4th .-l.S.S. TI(KETS AVAILABLE AT: OROM£ SOUND, ALBANY/MOHAWK MALL, VI\N CURLER MUSIC ALBANY ISCH .. MUSIC SHACK, TROY, PLACE THEATER, IIRH MON 11 1\.M. to 5:30P.M. 2 SHOWS- 7 and 10 P.M. Reality: .fact or Fiction by MATTHEW SWARTZ the two individuals would be Further, with the advent of the 13y asking yourself, \Am precisely aligned. atomic explosions in the Pacific Jiving a. real existense?\ we can Conseq1:1ently, after a few and the increase of radiation in simply delve into the relevance of seconds, the people could the atmosphere, the spinal this question and eliminate a lot converse freely without the glomerulus has now in one of introductory garbage. Well, burden of words! Apparently, generation's time, degenerated to chances are if you're reading this what had taken place was an a vestigial organ of less relevance you're breathing and carrying on augmentation of the electrical than the appendix. other biological processes so you activity of the brain by the spinal So, people today continue to are living. nut, are you living, cord and the spinal glomerulus to drift further apart due to their really? for what logical reasons the point where the individuals inability to use words effectively do you roll over in the morning, could actualh hear each other's and create facades so get your as~ to class and try for thought patte.rns. impregnable that even the most that elusive A in freshman I'm sure ) ou can appreciate the friendly and honest of people cytohybernetics~ To make the intense doubt with which this finds himself opposed by dean's list? To go to the best discovery was received. In fact, suspicion and distrust. All is not graduate school? To get a loving people were so sceptical that lost. Synaponauth (now living in kiss from your mother? I will not Synaponauth was removed from Ward, Colorodo where I met him try to put any of these down as his position in the University on this summer) tells us. This new each is perfectly acceptable and the grounds of insanity and could generation, born since the an achievement in its own right. not find a publisher to take the ' election of 1964 shows evidence However, we must not lose sight manuscript he had written on the of displeasure toward the old of the Qualitative Synaponauthic subject. The ensuing events can need for intense personality Theory of Pathological be found in any elementary evaluation and more willing to Interpermeation. It is for just school history book; a major love for no better reason than the that reason I am writing this catastrophe by ommission. reality of love. article. Selliager Synaponauth (pronounced sin - na - pon' - auth), a Scettish novelist of the late twenties, realizing the decayed state of the international economy, began considering how the world's population was going to remain at peace when, he went on in his own inimitable fashion, \brother was going to watch brother pass on from want of mind and mouth.\ (he had a tendency to speak in blatant redundancies) Using volunteers from the University of Edinborough, he found that if a person could be taught to train each of his eyes to the corresponding wrist of his standing counterpart and vice versa (in other words, looking slightly outward and downward· a phenomenon occurred. The center of the looker's brain would be exactly trained on the center of the pelvic region of the other causing a perfect infinity transfer of thought waves. llrain to pelvis, pelvis to brain. brain to pelvis, etc .• until the patholgies of KINGSIZE WATERBEDS $15.95 - 20 year guarantee; fast delivery; Heavenly Waterworks, 662 Ipswich St., Boca Raton, Fla. 33432; Tel. 391-9406 WANTED Female To Cook Dinners Free Meal Plus $5.00 a Week CaD 346-2652 Coeds, are you interested in earning a 15% commission? If so, be a member of the Concordy Business Statf. Contact either Joe Achenbaum in 153 Davidson or Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. First Trial· Date Set For Goverance Report by WALTER SPENCER Editor's note: Walter Spencer was President of the Student Body at Union during the 1970-71 academic year. In this capacity, he served as Vice-Chairman of the ad hoc · Committee on Governance, which issued a report at the end of Winter Term 1971. The recommendations of the Governance Committee are, at this time, undergoing a one-year trial. Classes are larger at Union this year than they have been in the past, and tuition is higher. Faculty members who are reputed to be excellent instructors are not being considered for tenure because the trustees have ruled that only 60% of the faculty shall be tenured at any one time. Students have been concerned about these and other developments throughout the last four years at Union. This year, more than ever before, students have a means of acting on the basis of their concern, The Governance Report gives students nearly one- third (7 of 23) of the votes in the main campus legislative body, the All College Senate. In addition, students a~·e given two associate members on the Board of Trustees. For the first time, students have become equal partners in the governance process. What many students do not realize. however, is that there was a great deal of vigorous discussion among faculty and administrative members of the Governance Committee, before the idea of students as members of an All College Senate was accepted. At first. the general sentiment was one of reservation toward giving students so much influence over the academic life of the college. Committee members were more impressed by the quality of student participation within the committee than by the force of student arguments. Students must be careful, though, not to take their new role for granted. Many members of faculty and administration who did not serve on the committee have serious misgivings about the wisdom of the new system~ Many of them will look toward the elections to be held on October 11, as a test of student interest and responsibility. The efficacy of the student role will be judged by the number of voters in the upcoming elections. Let's assert our will on Union. Vote on October II. \SpWuJ Moffett's CURE ~ II Liquor fJIU <tTold Store TRY iAcro:-.s Tht· F~t·ld) !Buck 1505 VanVranken An.-. SPRING SEMESTER-ISRAEL For Hum·anities Students Brandeis University/The Jacob Hiatt Institute Study centered in Jerusalem/February June, 1972. Limited to 30 students. Juniors, Seniors and Grad students eligible. Four courses/History, Literature, Archaeology, Bible. Earn 16 credits. Knowledge Hebrew or Arabic preferred. of Cost $2000/Tuition, room, board, round-trip travel THE HIATT INSTITUTE Brandeis University Application deadline November 1st. Waltham, Massachusetts 02154 -,' I j ~·.

ly st ,-. ' } ~ < .. '• .'t \ •i . ' Stic~' em· Up . And Rip'~m Off .: .. -... ~~y MIK:E:-MESEROLJJ:. ., ·-:. : ~ ~- , · ~t ' ' . ·:'·_'. ·~<'\ ... _ .. -. . .: 4 ... • .,.,. • • • . ,. Ripping off .is :itt) '~ng. }.C:yol.J: wap.t· it, bal>.y 1 j.ust :take. it. Who cares about the rightful owner? I mean, come on~ if the -idiot was dumb en~ ugh: :.t~>copg!t: :qp -his hard-earned dough to .l;>uy it legitimate}:y/W.hy~liould,Y,pu give a ilecond thought to just sneaking into his house or car ·an9 gt:al>bing it .for free.- To rip off is cool, ttlan. Jerry· Rubin say~ it's cool and goodness knows we all w~uit.to be li~e Jerry-baby. Steal This Book, is that cool, or what? Why buy it wffen you can lift it. Ripping off is a cool phrase, they used to call it \stealing;\ but jeez, Moses said that God said, \Thou Shalt Not ·Steal.\ As far as anyone knows, He never said anything about whether thou shalt or shalt not rip off. 'fhe truth of the matter is, however, that stealing is wrong and always has been. Breaking into someone's car and ripping off his tape deck is about as ·cool· as running down .old ladies With a shopping cart at the A&P. Both take a certain amount of courage. Ten days ago, somebody or bodies came· into the house I live in with 18 other guys and walked away with oqr color television set. Just last night, the same thing happened all over again, a batch of burglers entered empty-'handed and egressed with a TV, a brand new one this time. This might even seem mildly amusing it if wasn~t such a pain in the ass for the guys who live in the house and still have to pay for the second set, which isn't there anymore. The most aggravating aspect of the robbery, though, is that very _ little hope can be held out for getting either set back or the thieves who .stole them. The local police have little to go on and can't do much, and Chief Kleinkauf and his crack security squad seem capable of even less. What do you do? Buy another TV and wait for the morning it suddenly isn't there? Lock up the house and keep all your friends out as well as all suspected felons? Obviously neither way will do, but you've got to do something, like maybe emersing the Tube in a giant, electrified, glass fish tank full of piranna. Aside from this separate incident, however, stealing seems to be becoming strangely commonplace. Ifs even at the· point of respectability here at Union, that there is currently a handwrittep. advettisement right outside the Library which. reads; \for sale; I ripped off Hanke rental buckle boots, ex. condition, (I didn't rip them off), $200, size 7Y2 m.\ The ad runs on to describe, also, a 1966 Corvair thai is up for $225 and says that any interested buyers should call \Becky\ at Alpha Delta Phi. This ad is one incredible piece of material and. indicates something about us that is very disturbing. \Becky\ says that he (or she) wasn'tth.e guy who stole the ski boots, so everything is all right .. That's a lot of ~rap .and Becky knows it, and anyone who thinks that selling those stolen boots is honest is only kidding himself. But, after aU, why should kids be any different than grown-ups. They have a lot to learn from their elders, such as stealing (or for that matter, lying and cheating) and making it look legal. The Pentagon Papers $bowed that the U.S. Government was lying to the country about the Vietnam War, but the damn papers had to be stolen in order for us to find out. And today we find South Vietnamese President Thieu pulling one of the great cheating rip offs of all time by making sure that he runs unopposed for reelection in a country we sacrificed over 40,000 men and countless billions of dollars to il'lSl}re the. right of self-determination. Even in the World of S.Port,_ t!Iat ~n~siotieq never neverla:nd of purity and virtue, professional baseball and football teams move their franchises like on a chessboard, in search of the almighty buck and regardless of the fan. Pi'o hockey and basketball dilute player talent in m .. conceived expansion of their leagues that bring in millions for the owners, but . rob the public of the quality they deserve for the outrageous prices they have to shell out in order to enter the arena. Money talks and nobody walks. If the money is there through legitimate means fine, but when that is not enough, there always seem to be people who turn to illegitimate means to get more, whether it's to feed a habit or an tJnlisted bank account. Much more often than not 1 it's the hard working, trustworthy guy who obeys the laws, who gets robbed and finds that he can do little about it. It's sickening. The original \FREAKS\ (1932) directed by_ TOD BROWNING \a film that comes back to me in nightmare~'' -.· · Pauline Kael 9:00. 11:00 CONCORDlENSlS, SEPT. 28, 1971 Page3 ·tr~t ~rte You Can't Hate The Music by DONALD J. MIRATE In seeking an escape frem Union's first non-weekend, I was amazed to find a cultural event at student prices at the Palace Theater in Albany. In a scene reminiscent of the summer Boston Pops' Concerts, (minus the champagne) the Dave Brubeck Triojoined Julitis Hegyi and the Albany Symphony Orchestra in a jazz and pops concert. The program featured orchestral works, and' selections fot jazz trio composed by Drubeck, as well as other jazz and show tunes. Hegyi's style of. conducting is emotional and .graceful, without being comically dramatic. Each of hi.s gesttJres is linked to the next, resulting in an inspiring eX-perience for both performers ·:and audience. His vibl'ant · pers~mality and his enthusiasm .are · evident in the .performers' response to his conducting. Hegyi led the orchestra in a spirited but sloppy performance of George Gershwin's \American in Paris,\ preceded by \March: Washington Post\ by John Philip Sousa. The brass section was insecure at times, and the percussionists were so secure that they failed to notice a major ritardanzo. The Dave Brubeck Trio - Brubeck on piano, Alan Dawson on drums and Jack Six on bass - then performed selections from Brubeck's cantatas \The Light in the Wilderness\ and \The Gates of Justice.\ In these jazz pieces, the composer uses the dramatic fullne!)s of the strings and the dazzling power of the brass section to support his jazz trio. The polyrhythrns and unconventional meters characteristic of Brubeck are present, but th'ey are not employed as extensively m; in his earlier music. Brubeck is noted for introducing into popular use unusual time signatures such as 7/8 ·and 5/4, and for using the polyrhythm of three beats against two. Despite a somewhat shaky start, the orchestra proved its capability of playing jazz rather well. The ultimate effect was a complex and swinging sound. Brubeck and his · musicians New Profs. Continued from Page l 1971, Harvard. Three people have been appointed to full time positions in the Library; Barbara S. Lallarba, Acquisitions Library, instructor; Daniel E. McNett, Reference Librarian, instructor; and Virginia Yee, Bibliographer, instructor. Also joining Union's faculty are· John S. Leschen, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, and Bruce L. Wheeler, Instructor in Physical Education, about whom further information was unavailable at the time of printing. received a partial standing ovation (something new to me) and the trio returned to play an encore before the intermission. Before Brubeck's return, the orchestra played \Huapango a Mexican-flavored composition. The string section contributed an outstanding performance, while the perc1:1ssionists, once again, were not quite together. Then, the trio returned to pl!!-Y various Mexican songs in -their own style, featuring solos by Dawson and Six which were very well received. Again, the trio drew a partial standing ovation, and played a 'brief encore. · The concert concluded with selections from Rogers and Hammerstein's ''South Pacific\ which, although well.perforrp.ed, was terribly anti-climactic. The evening must be viewed as a great success for the Albany Symphony Orchestra, as well as for the culture-seeking Union student. However, the most fascinating part of the evening was not the musicians' performance, nor the detours in downtown Albany, nor the dirt parking lot with no entrance, but the audience. Although the majority of concertgoers were well-dressed (as promised in the Schenectady Gazette) ladies and gentlemen of great maturity and . afflu'en'ce, they, successfully' distracted niy . attention by humming, tapping their feet, and talking, talking, talking, during the entire concert. While I realize that this was a pops concert and not a classical performance, the There will be an important meeting of the sailing club Wednesday, September 29, at 4:30 p.m. There are intercollegiate regattas scheduled for every weekend this fall, and we need interested competitors. Please tneet with us in the Fox House lounge at the above time. If you can't make it, see: Carter Gowrie, ~11 Fox;. or Ruth · Morton, 2!2 Fox. * * * * Any student interested in eating at Delta Upsilon (D. U.) please call 346-9776 before Friday, October l. Ask for Kinzie. * * * * The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on October 12 at the music was nevertheless serious and Brubeck certainly deserved something better than high school assembly conduct. J:he next concert of the season will be on October 16, at 8:30 p.m., and will feature works by Urahms and Mendelssohn. All concerts are at the Palace Theater; student tickets cost $1.50 and can be reserved by calling 465-4755. Creative Framing Original Graphics Posters ARTISTS' SUPPLY 163 Jay St. If y~u are interested in working for the Concordy Business Staff ~md would fike to earn· a 15% commission by selling ads, contact Joe Achenbaum in Rm. 153 · Davidson or leave your name and phone number with Mrs. Mara in the Student ,Activities Office. in Hale House Student Lounge. Future plans of the {;Ommitt..:r will also be discussed. * * * * WMHT Channel 17 needs Union men and wqmen to work in all phases of production including film, photography, publicity and video. Interested students should contact Richard L Kram~r, WMHT Publicity £tirectpt at -356-1760_ * * * * The Union College Social Committee presents the Flying Burrito Brothers in concert on Friday, October 8, in Memorial Chapel. Tickets will be $3.00 in advance for Union students, and $4.00 for all others and at the door. * * * * Hale House Faculty Lounge at .------------- 8:00 p.m. All those interested in \'articipating are welcome. For any questions or problems that may arise please contact Bob Lavin in 321 Davidson, telephone number 393-0086. * * * * There will be a meeting for all students interested in working with the Social Committee on Thursday, Sept. 30, at 7:30 p.m. MCAT-DAT·GRE LSAT-ATGSB NAT'L. BDS. * Preparation tor tests required far admission to graduate and pro'fes- sional schools ~- INTERESTED IN POLITICAL * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups * Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field \ AND COMMUNITY WORK? INTERESTED IN WORKING IN: HAMILTON HILL FOOD CO-OP TUTORING IN SCHENECTADY COMMUNITY RESEARCU ORGANIZATION AND DRAFT COUNSELLING POLITICAL WORK OF ANY KIND Imperative. meeting of the Student Social Action Committee, Thursday, Sept. 30, at 4:30, inSSllS. IF YOU CAN'T ATTEND, SIGN UP TO WORK IN * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. * Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends - I ntersessions STANLEV H. KAPLAN IDUCATIONAL CENTERLTD. 1675 E0\1 16th Street Brooklyn, N. Y (212) 236-6300 u (516) 538-4555 DAYS. EVENINGS,WEEKENOS SINCE1931. , .. Wed. Sep~~2,: · 7:00 \\'\! ._.,..._ ·_·· __ • _____ · ..... ·\ ,....;-s;.;;;s;;...;· o:;.;,;;t.,..6·_ . ...;.s,;;.;t • .;.;o~._-. ~; .,....'·_ ·-. \\\'·· ~ ......... 'i\\!', _.....,, .• ~, .h, .\'l\'!, .:\\':'. , . .,..., ~~.\':\\ ~__,...--::-.- .• ~ •. \1!\' •. ~ .. -- ~- ___ ~- ___ .,...,_ ~~ ~- -::-. -:-: •• ~. ::\\' ••. ~--:-~ , SttJI6£:N.'f ACTIVITIES OFFICE. , Bpscon • Phlla. * W~hingtah 0 'Otttoit • Loa AnQtJH • Miami , file Tulorill! Scllloolwilh tlte Nationwide llepui4li91t

0 0 - .. ~-- I f, Stick'em Up And Rip' em Off ~y MtKE: M-ESEROLE Ripping off is in, gang. u: you want it, baby, just take it. Who cares about the rightful owner? I mean, come on, if the idiot was dumb entmgh to cough up his hard-earned dough to buy it legitimateiy,why -should you give a second thought to just sneaking into his house or car and grabbing it for free. To rip off is cool, man. Jerry Rubin says it's cool and goodness knows we all want to be like Jerry-baby. Steal This Book, is that cool, or what? Why buy it when you can lift it. Ripping off is a cool phrase, they used to call it \stealing but jeez, Moses said that God said, \Thou Shalt Not Steal.\ As far as anyone knows, He never said anything about whether thou shalt or shalt not rip off. The truth of the matter is, however, that stealing is wrong and always has been. Breaking into someone's car and ripping off his tape deck is about as cool as running down old ladies with a shopping cart at the A&P. Both take a certain amount of courage. Ten days ago, somebody or bodies came into the house I live in with 18 other guys and walked away with our color television set. Just last night, the same thing happened all over again, a batch of burglers entered empty-handed and egressed with a TV, a brand new one this time. This might even seem mildly amusing it if wasn't such a pain in the ass for the guys who live in the house and still have to pay for the second set, which isn't there anymore. The most aggravating aspect of the robbery, though, is that very little hope can be held out for getting either set back or the thieves who stole them. The local police have little to go on and can't do much. and Chief Kleinkauf and his crack security squad seem capable of even less. What do you do? Buy another TV and wait for the morning it mddenly isn't there? Lock up the house and keep all your friends out as well as all suspected felons? Obviously neither way will do. but you've got to do something, like maybe emersing the Tube in a giant, electrified, glass fish tank full of piranna. Aside from this separate incident, however. stealing seems to be becoming strangely commonplace. It's even at the point of respectability here at Union, that there is currently a handwritten advertisement right outside the Library which reads; \for sale; I ripped off Hanke rental buckle boots, ex. condition, (I didn't rip them off), $200, size 71;2 m.\ The ad runs on to describe, also, a 1966 Corvair that is up for $225 and says that any interested buyers should call \Becky\ at Alpha Delta Phi. This ad is one incredible piece of material and indicates something about us that is very disturbing. \Becky\ says that he (or she) wasn't the guy who stole the ski boots, so everything is all right. That's a lot of crap and Becky knows it, and anyone who thinks that selling those stolen boots is honest is only kidding himself. Dut, after all, why should kids be any different than grown-ups. They have a lot to learn from their elders, such as stealing (or for that matter, lying and cheating) and making it look legal. The Pentagon Papers showed that the U.S. Government was lying to the country about the Vietnam War, but the damn papers had to be stolen in order for us to find out. And today we find South Vietnamese President Thieu pulling one of the great cheating rip offs of all time by making sure that he runs unopposed for reelection in a country we sacrificed over 40,000 men and countless billions of dollars to insure the right of self-determination. Even in the World of Sport, that envisioned never neverland of purity and virtue, professional baseball and football teams move their franchises like on a chessboard, in search of the almighty buck and regardless of the fan. Pro hockey and basketball dilute player talent in ill-conceived expansion of their leagues that bring in millions for the owners, but rob the public of the quality they deserve for the outrageous prices they have to shell out in order to enter the arena. Money talks and nobody walks. If the money JS there through legitimate means fine, but when that is not enough, there always seem to be people who turn to illegitimate means to get more, whether it's to feed a habit or an unlisted bank account. Much more often than not, it's the hard working, trustworthy guy who obeys the laws, who gets robbed and finds that he can do little about it. It's sickening. The original \FREAKS\ (1932) directed by TOD BROWNING \a film that comes back to me in nightmares\ - Pauline Kael Wed. Sept. 29 ss 016 7:00 $1.00 9:00 11:00 CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 28, 1971 Page3 ij!~t ~rts You Can't Hate The Music by DONALD J. MIRATE In seekiug an escape from Union's first non-weekend, I was amazed to find a cultural event at student prices at the Palace Theater in Albany. In a scene reminiscent of the summer Boston Pop~· Concerts, (minus the champagne) the Dave Brubeck Trio joined Julius Heg) 1 and the Albany Symphon) Orchestra in a jazz and pops concert. The program featured orchestral works, and· selections for jazz trio composed by Brubeck, as well as other jazz and show tunes. Hegyi's style of conducting is emotional and graceful, without being comically dramatic. Each of his gestures is linked to the next, resulting in an inspiring experience for both performers and audience. His vibrant personality and his enthusiasm are evident in the performers' response to his conducting. Hegyi led the orchestra in a spirited but sloppy performance of George Gershwin's \American in Paris,\ preceded by \March: Washington Post\ by John Philip Sousa. The brass section was insecure at times, and the percussionists were so secure that they failed to uotice a major ritardanzo. The Dave Brubeck Trio - Brubeck on piano, Alan Dawson on drums and Jack Six on bass then performed selections from Brubeck's cantatas \The Light in the Wilderness\ and ••The Gates of Justice.\ In these jazz pieces, the composer uses the dramatic fullness of the strings and the dazzling power of the brass section to support his jazz trio. The polyrhythms and unconventional meters characteristic of Brubeck are present, but th'ey are not employed as extensively as in his earlier music. Brubeck is noted for introducing into popular use unusual time signatures such as 7/8 and 5 I 4. and for using the polyrhythm of three beats against two. Despite a somewhat shaky start, the orchestra proved its capability of playing jazz rather well. The ultimate effect was a complex and swinging sound. Brubeck and his musicians New Profsa Continued from Page I 1971, Harvard. received a partial standing ovation (something new to mel and the trio returned to pla! an encore before the intermission. Defore Brubeck's return. the orchestra played \H uapango.\ a Mexican-fl:ln,red compos it inn. The string section contrihuted an outstanding performanel.'. \\hik the percmsionists. once again. were not quite together. Then. the trio returned to pla) mnou~ Mexican ~ong~ in their own ~t~ !e. f~:aturing solo:- O) Daw~;on and Six which were \er) well received. Again, the trio drew a partial standing ovation. and played a brief encore. The coucert concluded with selections from Rogers and Hammerstein's \South Pacific\ which, although well-performed, was terribly anti-climactic. The evening must be viewed as a great success for the Albany Symphony Orchestra, as well as for the culture-seeking Union student. However, the most fascinating part of the evening was not the musicians' performance, nor the detours in downtown Albany, nor the dirt parking lot with no entrance, but the audience. Although the majority of concertgoers were well-dressed (as promised in the Schenectady Gazette) ladies and gentlemen of great maturity and affluence, they successfully distracted my attention by humming, tapping their feet, and talking, talking, talking, during the entire concert. While I realize that this was a pops concert and not a classical performance, the There will be an important meeting of the sailing cluh Wednesday. September 29, at 4:30 p.m. There are intercollegiate regattas scheduled for every weekend this fall, and we need interested competitors. Please meet with us in the Fox House lounge at the above time. If you can't make it, see: Carter Gowrie, 311 Fox; or Ruth Morton. 212 Fox.. * * * * Any student interested m eating at Delta Upsilon (D. U .) please call 346-9776 before Friday, October I. Ask for Kinzie. * * * * The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on 0Gtober 12 at the music was ne\ertheless serious and Brubeck certainly deserwd something better than high school a~~embl~ Ct1nduet. The next concert of the season will he on Octoher 16. at KJO p.m .. and will featun: works h~ Brahm;, and \1endcls~ohn All concerh are at the Palace Theater. ~tudent tickeh cost S 1.50 and can he resen eJ h~ calling 465-4755. Creative Framing Original Graphics Posters ARTISTS' SUPPLY 163 Jay St. If you are interested in working for the Concordy Business Staff and would like to earn a 15% commission by seUing ads, contact Joe Achenbaum in Rm. 153 Davidson or leave your name and phone number with Mrs. Mara in the Student Activities Office. in Hale House Student Lounw· Future plans of the commit: :· will also be discussed. * * * * WMHT Channel 17 needs Union men and wqmen to work in all phases of production including film, photography. publicity and video. Interested students should contact Richard L. Kramer, WMHT Publicity director at 356-1700. * * * * The Union College Social Committee !'resents the Flying Burrito Brothers in concert on Friday, October 8, in Memorial Chapel. Tickets will be $3.00 in advance for Union students, and $4.00 for all others and at the door. * * * \' Three people have been appointed to full time posttwns in the Library; Barbara S. LaBarba, Acquisitions Library, instructor; Daniel E. McNett, Reference Librarian, instructor; and Virginia Yee, Bibliographer, instructor. Hale House Faculty Lounge at ,.---------------. Also joining Union's faculty are John S. Leschen, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, and Bruce L. Wheeler, Instructor in Physical Education, about whom further information was unavailable at the time of printing. 8:00 p.m. All those interested in participating are welcome. For any questions or problems that may arise please contact Dob Lavin in 321 Davidson, telephone number 393-0086. * \' * * There will be a meeting for all students interested in working with the Social Committee on Thursday, Sept. 30, at 7:30 p.m. INTERESTED IN POLITICAL AND COMMUNITY WORK? INTERESTED IN WORKING IN: HAMILTON HILL FOOD CO-OP TUTORING IN SCHENECTADY COMMUNITY RESEARCH AND ORGANIZATION DRAFT COUNSELLING POLITICAL WORK OF ANY KIND Imperative meeting of the Student Social Action Committee, Thursday, Sept. 30, at 4:30, in SS115. IF YOU CANT ATTEND, SIGN UP TO WORK IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. MCAT-DAT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB NAT'L. BDS. * Preparation tor tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups * Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. \ Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends- lntersessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERLTO. 167S East 16oh Street Brooklyn. Ill V .9'- ~ (212) 236-5300 :;--r ~ (516) 538-4555 ~ SINCE 1938. DAYS EVENINGS. WEEKENDS Bostoo • Ph ala • Weshulgton • Detro11 .. Los Angelft • M1am1 n. Turorory; School Wlrh th• Natoonw•d• Reputotiml

CONCORDIENSIS. SEPT. 28. 1971 Concordy Sports -· . ' . . . . Mitchell to Westbroo.k: Duo Drop~ SLU by BILL HOLLERAN Unleashing a devastating aerial attack against a supposedly sound St. Lawrence secondary, the Garnet gridders upended the Larries 24-17 on Saturday. A 27 yard scoring pass from reserve quarterback Bobby Mitchell to freshman speedster Ron Westbrook with ·only 3:28 remaining in the game choked off a second half SLU comeback after the Larries had rallied frorn a 17-0 halftime deficit to knot the score in the fourth quarter. Union's second win of the campaign in as many starts came before a pleased home opener throng of about 5,000 fans at Alexander Field. Rearic Knocked Out The Dutchmen appeared on the way to a rout in the first half, as starting quarterback Dave Rearic and understudy Mitchell passed Union into a 17-0 lead. Rearic connected on four of five attempts for 78 yards before being knocked out of the game in the first quarter with a serious ankle injury. Rearic, however, was around long enough to guide the Garnet attack to its fLTSt score of the afternoon. Union took the opening kickoff, and the junior led the Dutchmen on a 78 yard touchdown march. A well-executed 52~yard screen pass to Westbrook was the key play in the drive, which took seven plays and culminated in fullback Curtis RQ:we's one yard burst off tackle. Mitchell, who would enter the game when Rearic was injured during Union's next series of downs, booted the converston to give the Garnets a 7-0 lead with seven minutes remaining in the quarter. Mitchell was a bit sha!<-y in the opening moments of his replacement stint, but after getting the feel of things, went to work with deadly accuracy. In all, he hit on 16 of 28 tosses for 194 yards and two touchdowns. After the Garnet's hard- w.orking defense recovered . an SLU fumble on the Larrie 42, Mitchell hooked up with split end Jerry Cuffey for a 35-yard ·completion to the St. Lawrence seven. The drive bogged down but Mitchell booted a 24-yard field goal to widen Union's margin. St. Lawrence took the ensuing kickoff but could not get out of their own territory, punting from their own ten yard line to the Garnet's 49. Dutchmen backs, who were able to net only 51 yards all day. hulled the ball down to SLU's 39. That set the stage for a perfect scoring strike from Mitchell to Westbrook, who gathered in the ball on the 15 and scampered into the end zone untouched. The quarterback again co.nverted, and the Garnet led J7.:0 at the half. · Larries Threaten Lead The lead quickly began to evaporate in the second half, as the Larries took the kickoff and marched methodically downfield for a score. Moving 74 yards in 13 plays, St. Lawrence stuck primarily to the ground attack, and halfback Barry Dutter scooted the last ten yards on a slash over left guard. '-1lrrie quarterback Bill Bradley the.n passed ~o hi~ end Tony Ross (or.a tw.o-point conversion. . Dutter was the- outstanding back in Saturday's contest, carrying 23 times for 123 yards. It was an impressive showing for a player who was not even m SLU's starting lineup. Garnet fortunes continued to wane in the third' quarter, as a lost fumble set up the Larries on the Union 11. Five plays lat~r Dutter lugged it in from one yard out. The PAT attempt was blocked by safety Mike Raab, who managed to burst into the Larrie backfield untouched, and the score stood 17-14 in Union's favor. Raab turned in an outstanding day's work to lead an improved Union secondary, intercepting another pass and making several fine defensive plays. The Garnet backfield, maligned for its hot and .cald play. against Worcester, generally shut off . the . L~rrie Passing game, holding freshman Union's freshman hQ/fhack Ron Westbrook spores the winning touchdown in last Saturday's thrilling 24-17 victory over St .. Lawrence. Westbrook hauled in a 27-yard pass from substitute quarterback Bob A1itchell, his second scoring play of the game and his fourth touchdown of the young season. whiz kid Bradley to only six completions and 83 yards in 22 tries. With 13 :22 remaining in the game, the Garnet gambled on fourth and one at their ow11 . forty. They lost, with ~LU taking over in excellent scoring position. Defense Stops Drive Dutter raced 23 yards ()11 the Larries' first play from scrimmage, with Tim Foley finally upending him at the Union six. The Dutch.men, however, stiffened on defense during the next series, and the Larries were able to net only two yards in their next three cracks at the Garnet goal line. Steve Kantor's 20 yard field goal tied the game at 17, hut the Dutchmen were still in serious trouble. Union failed to move the ball on the next set of downs, and punted back to the Larries. SLlJ immediately began to drive upfield but Raab's second theft of the contest gave the Garnets possession at their own 42. Mitchell then put on an aerial display that had not been seen on Alexander Field since Ken Pearce was in hi~ prime. The junior hit Jerry Cuffey twice, for a first down at the SLU 34, and then spotted Geoff Walker at the SptW.4 flv.Jilt ,. 27 for another important completion. On third and short yardage, Mitchell faked nicely and arched a perfect ;strike to the speeding Westbrook, who had beaten his tWo Larrie defenders by ten yards. Pandemonium broke loose in the stands after th~ score, which wrapped up the game for Union at 24-17. A Plethora of Bicycles WITH WOODY Perh~ps you never have heard of Ole Ritter, Marion Basso, Alf Letourner, or even Eddy Merckx. Who? They are all European bicycle racing stars. Letourner 0nce pedaled a bicycle at .a speed of 108.92 miles an hour, and Merckx, winner of the 1971 Tour de France, is currently the world's top racing champion. Defense Poses Problems For Spirited Soccer Team But Sports Illustrated only gave Merckx' victory one sentence in its \For the Record\ this summer, while it put the \World's Top Racing Driver\ on the cover. And even if you don't care, it is still a. shame that bicycle racing has not yet caught on in America with the popularity of such \sports\ as horse and car racing. There are bicycle tracks in cities such as Los Angeles, Chicago, Flushing, and Kenosha, Wi~consin, and Tour de Union was even by MARTY BERMAN The Union College Soccer team opens up yet another exciting season October 6 against Trinity. at West Hartford, Conn. Hopefully. the campaign will prove to be more successful than previous soccer seasons. or at least last year's 2-7-1 \effort.\' The 1971 edition of the Garnet hooters. possibly the youngest and most talent-laden ever, will be playing European style \4-2-4\ soccer. Vets On Attack The four offensive positions include two wings, most likely handled by co-captain Art Frazier and Bobby Bernhardt, a striker and a sweeper. handled by the fleet Dusty Richards and co- captain Paul Martini respectively. Richards, as striker, will be counted on to keep up his image of \garbageman which enabled him to lead the Dutchmen in scoring last season on a variety of six-yard \chippies.\ The role of sweeper is perfect for the ever- hustling Martini as it calls for a \monster man.\ All four of the offensive players are veterans and will hopefully alleviate last year's problem · of a paucity of· goals; ' ' •/ j And ready to fill in on the line behind them is Bill LoVisa, a well skilled frosh. The halfbacks could be a problem because of the lack of depth on the squad. Freshman Doug Moran and senior Ira Turret probably will gain starting berths, with Mark Brickley and Bob Grossman as substitutes. Defense Suffers Losses The defense. which- was the strong point of the squad last year, suffered the losses of Jaime Ramirez, Larry Mullman, and Tim Foster. Sandy Wilder remains the lone veteran on defense. He will be joined there by two of his high school teammates, Olaf Nielsen and Neil Brickley. But Brickley is currently nursing a painful knee injury, which, if serious, could greatly lessen Union's chances this fall. Vying for the fourth fullback position are Sev Bonnie (injured· last year) and two veterans of last year's freshman squad, Dave Kawecki and Da.ve Van Armam. Freshman halfback Bob Grossman may also play fullback. The biggest problem this year is the goalie position. Jim Slettelarld and Paul Miller are currently battling for the job. Sletteland was a competent but unspectacular starter last year for the freshmen, while Miller is a junior and a newcomer. Both could do the job, but .neither will be reminiscent of the late Dave Block. A lack of depth will also hurt the squad. Through rough workouts coach Bob McMurray is endeavoring to .get the squad into top shape, but the small size of the team will have to take its. toll late in the games. The Dutchmen scrimmaged and tied New Paltz State 2-2 on September 22. Union's tackling was off, but the two goals were a good sign after last year's squad repeatedly made great netminders of mediocre opposing goalies. '71 Squad \Gung· Ho'~ But the big difference between the '71 and '70 squads has to be the new spirit. The carefree, lackadaisical attitude that • reigned last year appears to be gone, and the players exude a 10 gung-ho\ spirit along with the usual brash overconfidence. Maybe 1971 is the year for Union soccer. I I • I I • t . ' ' ' .. \ . held on this campus last October. · But the average American who wants to test his luck as a bicycle racer here, or who wants to do more than just ride to class or around the block, will find his options limited. He could emigrate to Europe, jOin -the srnall, group of truly serious and skilled cycling racers in America, or he co'uldjointheLA:W.. . The League of American Wheelmen is the national organization that oversees various local and regional bicycle clubs across the country. And last weekend, the LAW sponsored its annual Century Run. Any cyclist able to ride 100 miles over a prescribed course within the alloted time of 12 hours on Saturday or Sunday will be awarded a patch and certificate by the LAW. To a cyclist that mean~as much as riding an ultimate downhill ~ barreling into the wind at upwards of 50 MPH, with tears running down the cheeks, and hands glued' to the' turned-down handlebars - \the nearest ti11rig to heaven\ as the cyclists' saying goes. At 3:45 PM on Sunday, two Schenectady high school students completed their second Cen.tury Run ofthe weekend as they pulled into the parking lot of the Faith Baptist Church ·atop· a hill off Route 146 in Rexford. . . . _ · . . These two were the only people to ride 100-mites each day -last weekend under the sJ,lpervision of the local biGycle dub, the Mohawk Valley Wheehhen. Think about that. 200 rniles in two days. Perhaps they'll still be too tired to appear this Sunday, October 3, at the club's monthly meeting, being held at the Music Haven Bandstand in Central Park before that day's ride. After finishing, one of then joked, \Now all rn· db is walk. Do you know anyone who wants to buy a .bike?\ But I should go on record as saying I'll be there at Central Park, and so should anyone else who wants to ride a few miles or might be interested in becotVing a member of a bicycle club at Union. . Aft~r all, even if there are no bicycle racks yet on this campus, -there is still a plethora of bicyqle.s . .lf you have Qne,,use it. . 1 .. \ \ '' ·.· - Tl Ja In (S Ot sp M M le c oJ ec c rn Ill k re ki k u: b Sl s~ .. ' ~ d \ E ' G tl 0 a: . •\~ 0 VI a· Cl \Y 0 c: • tl il e s ·\ .; g l h tl 0 ll b ·i ·' ,··t \1 ., h p I S: n 0

Dage4 CONCORDIENSIS, SEPT. 28, 1971 Concordy Sports Mitchell to Westbrook: Duo Drops SLU by BILL HOLLERAN Unleashing a devastating aerial attack against a supposedly sound St. Lawrence ~econdan. I he Garnet gridder:-. upended the l.arries 24-17 on Saturday. A 27 yard 'coring pas:-. !rom re:-.ene quarterha~:k Bohh\ \1itchell to !rohman :-.peedo.,ter Ron Wcsthrook \\ith on!~ ~:2X remaining in the game choked ott a 'econd hall St.\· come had alter the Larrie:-. had rallied from a 17-0 halftime deti~:it to knot the score in the founh LJUarter. l ninn \ 'econd \\in of the campaign in a~ mam 'tart\ came hctore a plea\ed home opener throng of ahout 5.000 Jan~ at Alexander f·ield. Rearic Knocked Out !he Dutchmen appeared (lfl the \\a~ to a rout m the llr't hall. ~~s ~tarting LjUarterhack D<l\c Ream· and understud; Mitchell pa>:-.cd ( nwn into a 17-0 lead. Rean~: connected on tour of fi\c atu:mpts lor 71\ ~ards hdun: heing knocked out of the game in the first quarter with a senous ankle injury. Rea ric, however, was around long enough to guide the Garnet attack to its first score of the afternoon. Union took the opening kickoff, and the junior led the Dutchmen on a 78 yard touchdown march. A well-executed 52-yard screen pass to Westbrook was the key pia] in the drive, which took !->even plays and culminated in fullback Curtis Ruwe\ one yard hurst off tackle. Mitchell. who would enter the game when Rearic was injured during Union's next series of downs, hooted the conversion to give the Garnets a 7-0 lead with seven minutes remaining in the quarter. Mitchell was a bit shaky in the opening moments of his replacement stint, hut after getting the feel of things, went to work with deadly accuracy. In all. he hit on I (i of 2!{ tosses for 194 yards and two touchdowns. After the Garnet's hard- working defense recovered an Sl.lJ fumble on the Larrie 42. 1VIitchell hooked up with split end Jerry Cuffey for a 35-yard ·completion to the St. Lawrence seven. The drive bogged down but Mitchell hooted a 24-vard field goal to \\iden t:nfon's margin. St. L.!\Hence took the ensuing kickotl hut could not get out of their <1\\ n termor:-. punting from their <n\n ten \ard line to the (iarnet·~ 49. Dutchmen hacks. \\ho \\ere ahk to net onl) 51 ~<m.h all da\. hulled tht: ball dm\ n to Sl (\\ 39. I hat ~et the ~tage for a perfect ~coring ~trike from \llitchell to W~.:st hrook. '\'ho gathered in the hall on the 15 and scampered into the end tone untouched. The LJUarterhack again comerted, and tht: Garnet led 17-0 at the half. Larries Threaten Lead I he lead LjUicklj hegan to e\aporatt: in the ~econd half. as the Larries took the kickoff and marched met hodicall; dtm nfield for a 'core. \1ming 74 )aid:-. in lJ plays, St. Lawrence stuck primarily to the ground attack, and halfback Barry Dutter ~coated the last ten yards on a slash over left guard. Larrie quarterback Bill Bradley then passed to his end Tony Ross for a two-point conversion. Dutter was the outstanding back in Saturday's contest, carrying 23 times for 123 yards. It was an impressive shov.-ing for a player who was not even m SLU's starting lineup. Garnet fortunes continued to wane in the third quarter, as a lost fumble set up the Larries on the Union II. Five plays later Dutter lugged it in from one yard out. The PAT attempt was blocked by safety Mike Raab, who managed to burst into the Larrie backfield untouched, and the score stood 17-14 in Union's favor. Raab turned in an outstanding day's work to lead an improved Union secondary. intercepting another pass and making several fine defensive plays. The Garnet hackfield, maligned for its hot and cold play against Worcester. generally shut off the Larrie Passing game. holding freshman Union's freshman halfback Ron Westbrook sr:ores the winning touchdown in last Saturday's thrilling 24-17 victory over St. Lawrence. Westbrook hauled in a 27-yard pass from substitute quarterback Bob Mitchell, his second scoring play of the game and his fourth touchdown of the young season. whiz kid Bradley to only six completions and 83 yards in 22 tries. With 13:22 remaining in the game, the Garnet gambled on fourth and one at their own forty. They lost, with SLU taking over in excellent scoring position. Defense Stops Drive Dutter raced 23 yards on the Larrie s' first play from scrimmage, with Tim Foley finally upending him at the Union six. The Dutchmen, however, stiffened on defense during the next series, and the Larries were able to net only two yards in their next three cracks at the Garnet goal line. Steve Kantor's 20 yard field goal tied the game at 17, but the Dutchmen were still in serious trouble. Union failed to move the ball on the next set of downs. and punted back to the Larries. SLU immediately began to drive upfield but Raab's second theft of the contest gave the Garnets possession at their own 42. Mitchell then put on an aerial display that had not been seen on Alexander Field since Ken Pearce was in hi~ prime. The junior hit Jerry Cuffey twice, for a first down at the SLU 34, and then spotted Geoff Walker at the Spo1114 fluiiie 27 for another important completion. On third and short yardage, Mitchell faked nicely and arched a perfect strike to the speeding Westbrook, who had beaten his two Larrie defenders by ten yards. Pandemonium broke loose in the stands after the score, which wrapped up the game for Union at 24-17. A Plethora of Bicycles WITH WOODY Perhaps you never have heard of Ole Ritter, Marion Basso, Alf Letourner, or even Eddy Merckx. Who? They are all European bicycle racing stars. Letourner once pedaled a bicycle at a speed of 108.92 miles an hour, and Merckx, winner of the 1971 Tour de France, is currently the world's top racing champion. Defense Poses Problems For Spirited Soccer Team But Sports Illustrated only gave Merckx' victory one sentence in its \For the Record\ this summer, while it put the \World's Top Racing Driver\ on the cover. And even if you don't care, it is still a shame that bicycle racing has not yet caught on in America with the popularity of such \sports\ as horse and car racing. There are bicycle tracks in cities such as Los Angeles, Chicago, Flushing, and Kenosha, Wisconsin. and Tour de Union was even held on this campus last October. by MARTY BERMAN I ht· l\nion College Soccer team opt·n-. up ~et antlther t'\Cil!ng ~ea~\lll Octoher A again~.t I nmt~. at Wc,t !larttord. C\lnn. Hopetull~. tht' campatgn \\ill pro\l' to he more \UCce,,tul than prn 1nus 'on·cr >ea,on-.. or at lca,.,t la't \ear':-. 2-7-1 \e!lort'' I he I 1.}7! t'dillon nl tht· (iarnct hontl'r'>. pu..,..,ihl~ the ~ Ollllt!C~.t ,1nJ mmt talent-laden e\cr, \~ill he pia~ int! Fuwpcan ..,t~ lc \4-~-4\ \\ ets On Attack Ihc tour nften~t\e posllions 1ndude t'Ao \\lngs. most likcl) handled h;, ~:o-captain Art f·rancr and Bohh\ Bernhardt. a >triker and a ~weeper. handkd h~ the llcet Dust) Richards and co- captain Paul Martini rcspe~:tivel:-. Richards. as striker. will he counted on to keep up his image of \garhageman.\ which enabled him to lead the Dutchmen in scoring last season on a variety of six-yard \chippies.\ The role of sweeper is perfect for the ever- hustling Martini as it calls for a \monster man.\ All four of the offensive players are veterans and will hopefully alleviate last year's problem of a paucity of goals. And read) to fill in on the line hehind them i~ Bill I.oVisa. a \\ell ~k !lied t rosh. I he hallhacb could he a prohlt:m he~:ause ot the lack of depth nn the sljuad. Freshman Douf! \.loran and senior Ira I urret prohahl:o- \\ill gain starung herth~. \\ith 'vtark Bndle~ and lloh (iro~sman as suhstitutes. Defense Suffers Losses I he de tense. \~ hich was the ~tron,l! point of the squad last :-ear. suffered the losse;. of .laimt: Ramire1. l.arr) \-1ullman. and lim Fo:-.ter. Sand) \Vilder remains the lone \Cteran on defense. He \\ill he JOined there h) t\\o of his high school teammates. Olaf :\ ielsen and ~cit Brickle). !Jut Brickley is current]} nursing a painful knee injury, \\hich. if serious, could greatly lessen Union's chances this fall. Vying for the fourth fullback position are Sev Bonnie (injured last year) and two veterans of last year's freshman squad. Dave Kawecki and Dave Van Armam. Freshman halfback Bob Grossman may also play fullback. The biggest problem this year is the goalie position. Jim Sletteland and Paul Miller are currently battling for the job. Sletteland was a competent but unspectacular starter last year for the freshmen. \\hile Miller is a junior and a newcomer. Both could do the job. hut neither will he reminiscent of the late Da\e mock. A lack of depth \\ill also hurt the s4uad. Through rough \\orkouts coach Bob McMurray is endea\oring to get the s4uad into top shape. hut the small si7e of the team v.-ill ha\C to take its toil late in the games. The Dutchmen scrimmaged and tied 1\iev.- Palt7 State 2-2 on September 22. t:nion's tackling was off. but the tv.-o goab were a good sign after last ~ear's s4uad repeatedly made great netminders of mediocre opposing goalies. '71 Squad \Gung-Ho\ But the big difference between the '71 and '70 squads has to be the new spirit. The carefree, lackadaisical attitude that ' reigned last year appears to be gone, and the players exude a \gung-ho\ spirit along with the usual brash overconfidence. Maybe 1971 is the year for Union soccer. But the average American who wants to test his luck as a bicycle racer here. or who wants to do more than just ride to class or around the block, will find his options limited. He could emigrate to Europe, join the small group of truly serious and skilled cycling racers in America. or he could join the LAW. The League of American Wheelmen is the national organimtion that oversees various local and regional bicycle clubs across the country. And last weekend. the LAW sponsored its annual Century Run. Any cyclist able to ride 100 miles over a prescribed course within the alloted time of 12 hours on Saturday or Sunday will be awarded a patch and certificate by the LAW. To a C!clist that meansas much as riding an ultimate downhill barreling into the wind at upwards of 50 MPH, with tears running down the cheeks, and hands glued to the turned-down handlebars \the nearest thing to heaven\ as the cyclists' saying goes. At 3:45 PM on Sunday, two Schenectady high school students completed their second Century Run of the weekend as they pulled into the parking lot of the Faith Baptist Church atop a hill off Route 146 in Rexford. These two were the only people to ride I 00 miles each day last weekend under the supervision of the local bicycle club, the Mohawk Valley Wheelmen. Think about that. 200 miles in two days. Perhaps they'll still be too tired to appear this Sunday, October 3, at the club's monthly meeting, being held at the Music Haven Bandstand in Central Park before that day's ride. After finishing, one of then joked, \Now all I'll db is walk. Do you know anyone who wants to buy a bike?\ But I should go on record as saying I'll be there at Central Park, and so should anyone else who wants to ride a few miles or might be interested in becoming a member of a bicycle club at Union. After all, even if there are no bicycle racks yet on this campus, there is still a plethora of bicycles. If you have one, use it. 1 I

