ted n in first 158, in 5·2 far 2:30 the R •• . _ /!ollnded at . Union · Co/lese 1877 Dean Malloy On' Ta·lk Show Coed housing, student participation in financial decisions at Union, the . new College Center, the housing problem and the consortium were some of the topics discussed by Dean Malloy on WRUC last Thursday night. I i Deluge Hits Engineering by·LES GOLDMAN Students and faculty of Center II returned to the new Science and Engineering Center for das:ses . yesterday morning, findmg up to four inches of water o~ . the . floors and acoustical ceilmg ~lie damaged from a weekend deluge. · Apparently, on Friday - aftern.oon, windows were left open m a third floor research lab ~ared by William B. Martin and In discussing coed housing, Dean Malloy stressed the fact that there are no actual proposals unde.r way. However, the possible forms of coed housing are now being studied. The possibility of alternating rooms m South or Richmond (and Fox and Davidson, if the fraternities remain) . must be eliminated because of the requirement . for separate plumbing facilities. The Social Committee has scheduled Poco in concert on Saturaay, February 1~, at Midnight in Memorial Chapel. Tzckets are now on sale in the Student Activities office and are moving rapidly. Seats are $3 for Union students, and $3.50 at the door if any remain. Springfield, has recorded three albums on Epic. Their latest, a new release,· is called \pelivering.\ owa.rd E. Sheffer. Professors of Chemistry. Due to weekend temperatures which dipped below z:ro, wat.er froze in a %-inch pipe, causmg the pipe to crack. . Early ~unday morning, the wmdows m the lab were closed Shortly thereafter. the roo~ warm~d sufficiently for water in, the pipes to defrost and b . . leak· f ' egm. Malloy stated that the reaction of the Board of Trustees to coed housing \ranges over the whole spectrum.\ There was no real Poco has been categorized along with Crosby, Stills, Nash and Yeung, and Laura Nyro as a trend-setter in \a new direction that we can call good music for mg rom three large cracks caused by the ice . concensus of opinion. Poco, which is an offspring of Buffalo lack of a better word.\ . Torrents of water rushed th~ough the three floors of the Science Center an= . . In relation to the drug problem, Malloy said that he would like to be able to say that a problem didn't exist, but that he would be deluding himself. There is now a committee working on a questionnaire to determine what students know and want to know about . drugs. China Speaker . C·oun sels: I uu, m some p aces on the first floor it w ''Ad . . · · m1t National Error\ . four . to . six inches • dee;s Fortunat~ly, most of the damag~ was confmed to the Ch . . t' em1stry sec Ion of the building. It was pointe.d out that Professor by MARC LUST A second school of thought Styles' Comprehensive Education Speaking iri SSOI6 Thursday has . -d,evel~~ed regarding class will present a seminar Night, Professor James c. Ame~1cas r:nhtary a.scell:dancy concerning drugs, February 27. Thomson of Harvard University~ .. and--lts< role -m.East-~s\an Issues. Malloy feels that the discussed the problem of China In the past, Amencans have Mountebanks' method of raising and United States, and the future money for the lighting board was of Atnerican•Chinese relations. the \almost pei'fect way\ t 0 deal Pr.ofessor Thomson noted that with the pro.blem. It was since the Communist revolution mentioned that many feel that took place in China in 1949, the the $115,000 now available to United States has changed its renovate Carnegie Hall is not view of China from that of a enough. Malloy replied that he \great potential ally,\ to one of a felt the Administration has \monstrous threat to Western showed its faith by making a civilization and world security.': start, and that the attention ln ordet to understand the focused on the Center will attract problems of. China ·in their funds to it. proper perspectives, Thomson The Committee on the Center hoped to answer four questions has not yet been formed, but the concerning our relations with . Committee on Committees will China: (l) Where we have been JAMES C. THOMSON ~oon make nominations (anyone in the past, (2) where we are lllterested in participating as a presently, (3) where we will go member of the committee should from here, and (4) how we will see Walter Spencer). The get there. Committee will make a In regard to the issue of where pt:esentation, discussing what we have been in the past with should be included in the Center ·relations ·toward China, and this presentation will have to Thomson said the obsession that fit the budget. a significant number of Dean Malloy stated that if it is Americans have had with regard decided that a new dortn is ·to the Far East. has been needed, loans would be available transformed into policy. After and it could be squeezed ~ the fall of China in 1949, the without disturbing other ·American response was to priorities. He also pointed out suspect betrayal at home · and that these federal or state abroad. It was felt that the \true\ government loans would be ear- China should remain in exile on marked for dorms and could 1 Formosa and that the \false\ therefore not he used for any China must be isolated. other project, such as the College Th~mson sa~d tha( our past Center. expenences w1th China have The Dean was asked if a influenced our policy toward the calendar change would take away Indochina war and have the need for new faculty. He produced two major habits of answered that specialized thought in Washington D.C. The instructors can be pooled, but first of these. the Domino each college in the Consortium Theory, states that if one Asian would· still finr:l it necessary to state is knocked down, they'll all employ faculty members in each fall down. Thomson pointed out department to teach introductory that this is based on the false courses. He also mentioned that premise that \all Asian states will the Director of the Hudson- act alike, because all Asian states Mohawk Association of Colleges look alike,\ the theory does not\ and Universities (the consortium t~ke into account the important to which Union belongs) has said differences among Asian states. that the calendar is a minor Thomson suggested that many consideration, major who are in accord with this new consider?tions being course fear that the final domino mav be offerings, faculty, and the administration · in transportation. Washington, D.C. believed that \if you stood up to Asians, they would back down. \As President Nixon said, 'Vietnam was a test of America·~ will.\' What is missing~ is the concept that Asians have will, too, especially . when they are fighting in their own country. Thomson summed up our past relations with China as a complex mixture of experiences, perceptions and habits of mi~conceptions: ln the past Chma has received our altruism, and now China is a vast, and powerful. country. Americans fear the possibility of monolithic communism and China is at the center of this fear. Turning to the question of where we are now, Thomson stated that we are living in changed times. brought about by a. number of important dev elo pmen t.s, i ncl ud i ng Communist rule · in China permanently established for th~ forseeable future. China's role asl a nuclear power, the development of the Sino-Soviet split into a major conflict, the dramatic rise of Japan as an economic and political force as well as a potentially great militaJ'Y power. the fact that the Indochina war is not '\winnable\, and that it will not be supported much longer by the American public, and the problem of Chinese representation in the Professor Martin indicated United Nations as a significant that there had been no significant issue finally making China \a damage to costly instruments and pressing is8ue. rather than some ~achinery. He attributed this lar~e blur on the map.\ fact to prompt action taken by Thomson concluded that the the people who first discovered United St(ltes is still operating in the problem. late Sunday evening. Asia as if times had not changed, However, Martin asserted that and that we are adhering to \a there were cases of wood self-perpetuating policy of cr~c.king in the lab where the leak ·another outdated era.\ This must or~ginated. He added that, all be .changed, he said, if we hope thmgs considered, the damage to tmprove our relations in East w~s far less extensive than it Asia, and specifically in China. m1ght have been, in view of the Turning to the question of magnitude of the problem. where we are to go from here, the .1? addition to damage to the Professor suggested that the ceilmg, many floor tiles arc • United Stat~s .bend its efforts buckl.ing from the dampness. . tow~rd ach1evmg peace and Repam began yesterday morning stabili.ty in E~st Asia and that' and. with the help of students, Amenc.an poh~y and resources workers managed to clear away be red1rected m the area. The much of the debris caused b. Continued on Page 2 falling ceiling tiles. by afternoon.) Venereal Diseases Seminar On Monda~ Th:ee pubhc se~ma~s on Requirements for the Future.\\' ~ueshons of commumty mterest The final seminar, on Februar . ~n the a~eas of health care, 22, will feature New York Cit~ enereal d1sease, and drug usa~e psychiatrist Dr. Arthur Africano have been scheduled for later ~h1s speaking 011 drug usage. After a month by a gro~p of ~mon skit, presented by student s~udents. The semmars will be Lawrence Busino '71 1 g1ven. o~,.Monday evenjngs at 8 will outline som~ of 'th~ f~~~t p.m. m .... ~016. data ab t d d h · · 0 ou rugs an t e1r effects . n Feb~uary 8, Dr. Alan published in scientific journals Hmma~, D~rector of the Bureau The students are offering,· the of Ep1dem1ology of the New seminars as part of their work in York State Department of a course entitled \H 1 1 Health, will be at the seminar to Nutrition and Diseas \ ·~a tbl, discuss \Venereal. Diseases and Dr Twi;ty J St 1 e, gJven. ) T g A E 'd · \ . · · Y es, assocwtc eena ers: . n PI ~m1c. The professor of biological sciences ·tt program Will also feature a film Union · ' and a panel discussion chaired by =~==· ========== Ira Schwartz, '72. The featured speaker the following week will be Dr. George Graham, Executive Director of Ellis Hospital in Schenectady and former president of the American Hospital Association. He will join students Robert Fusco. '72, a~1d Dav.id Rhulen, I 7 for a panel d1scuss.1on . on ··changing Patterns of Health Care in the U.S. and Health Manpower The Mountebanks will present \Tango\, by Slawomir Mrt>zek on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, February 4, 5, and 6, at 8.:30 p.m. in the :'~/ott Memorial Theater. Information and reservations a.re available at the box office from 1:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. Union students are admitted free, dates (if not Union students) al'e admitted for $1.00, and all others must pay $2.00.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 2. 1971 ~·-alniEdltor James· E. Stewart Newt EdibJr . Louis S. Snitkoff A.oc. News Edtter 'Peter BickennaD Features Editor Daniel Schochet lAyout Editor DCJug Wong \' •MQapr Lloyd Dims All( .......... ~ DougTosh Doug Binder National Adl'. Mp. Mark Shubnan Sports FAIHor William J. Holleran Aut. Sports Editor MarkShQgon ~*on Elaerld William Ouzer Henry G. Fein CoatribUdn& Edltfar Richard L. Kramer Pbotop'aplsJ F..dltCII' JodySaslow All&. ~pbJ Edlton· .. Charles Long. Dave Conrey ST .AFF: Patty Sipe, Les Goldman, Jay Hobart, Marc Lust, Harris Samuels, Judy Steinl>acfi, Joseph. Achenbaum, David Conti, Greg Hamlin, Michael Hollander, George Kaplan, Robert A. Le~ine, Mike Meserole, Thomas Morante, Ruth. Mort()n, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell, Len Solomon, George Bain, Marty Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark Zubres and Michael Rosenberg. l'u~ishi:d l'~ays and ~·ridPY,. durin¥ the school year hy tile stUdent body of Un,on C\oiJese SchciiCCUidy. N.Y .. !llatumal Aclvenising Representative, National Ed~tional. Adw.rti<lina Servh:c. Inc:.. College ·Publishcl'!l Representative, 360 l.cxanlton Ave .. N.Y:C. Edihnial office, Old Gym. Union C\llllege Publication Oft\IDC~ The Woo:ld Publiaitionli. n.l S1111e Su~t .. SchcliCCiady, N.Y. 12307. 346- 2356. I:Oaered in the Schenectady post omce as Seconcl C!lw Mail Matter, Subscfipdun 20 cents a copy. S6 a year.delivcre<l anywhere in the Unillld StalCJ· Dead Horses Still Smell Eeing an Arts student this term means spending ten- plus hours a week in the unheated part of the West Ct>llege basement. They work as long as they can stand it, then go out for a gasp of fresh air and to get warm wh. ile two other students take their places (only one· tent:h of the class can work at one time; but it's crowded even then). There is one exhaust fan and no windows. Today the electrician said using the fan may cause an explosion. Nex:t year the Physics Department moves into its new quarters, and the Arts Department is to have part of the old ·Physics building because it would cost too muc:h to make it safe enough to be a dormitory. . ' We at Concordien~is wonder over the comparative costs of processing an Engineering student arid educating an Arts student. If one pays $800 a term to work in an unheated basement, and the other's $800 buys him a place in a six million dollar building - we know where the priorities lie; but the justice? It ITiay seem like beating a dead horse to decry the injustices perpetrated upon the art students here; it's been said so often already, (and anyway it's only temp()rary'?) But meanwhile the conditions persist, the ·Maintenance Department still requires several months notice before they\ll do anything for the Arts (or anyone else), and the new quarters allegedly promised to tne Arts {the entire old Physics building) have already been seriotJsly reduced. ABORTION COUNSELING, INFORMATION AND REFERRAL SERVICES Ab()rtions up to 24 weeks of pregnancy are now legal in New York State. There are no residency restrictions at cooperating hospitals and clinics. Only the consent of the patient and the performing physician is required. If you think you are pregnant, consult your doctor. Don't delay. Early abortions are simpler and safer. If you need information or professional assist- ance, including immediate registration into available hospitals and clinics, telephone: THE ABORTION INFORMATION AGENCY, INC. 160 WEST 86th STREET NEW YORK, N. Y. l 0024 212-873 ~ 6650 8 A.M. TO 10 P.M. SEVEN DAYS A WEEK Thom.son Urges Polley Initiatives ... Continued from Page 1 disarmament with ali members of acceptance. United State& must recognize the the \nuclea~.: community.\ (6), · In: conclusion, Professor eminent quadrilateral situation There should he in¢reased talk Thomson floted that all develeping in East Asia and that about an Indochina settlement. discussion about China is merely the new Asian balance of power (7) The U.S. should indulge· in academic unless the Indochina must realistically reflect the \random adhocary\ to establish war is en<;led. The only way this interests of the parties involved. relationships with the Chinese.· can be accomplished is to admit Pertaining to the final and (8) The United States must be national error and .to ~have the most important question of how more ingenious about methods compassion to, do it quickly. \It to go about getting there, we employed in dealing with .East is up to the United States,\ he need to get \cannier\ about Asian countries which may cquse said, \to make the first and national interests, and we must the United States harm, and harde~n move toward conciliation learn not to he abused by Asian must give China recognition and in Asi&.'' . states, and that at times, the best policy is to let the Asian states alone. Thomson said that our national administration must move f,rom a strategy of inertia to one. of inventiveness. We must not only wait for Chi,na to change its attitudes, but there must be true unilateral American initiatives t@ help speed up change of U.S . ..Chinese relations, and to help . show the right <;lirection of the shaping up process. In reference to what these initiatives shoul<;l be, Thomson listed eight changes in United States policy to help improve U.S.-Chinese relations: ( l) trade with China should be on the same level as trade with the, U.S.S.R. (2) Travel to and from China should be on the same level as with the U.S.S.R. (3) Recognizing that there is only one government in mainland China, anq tl4at it is Peking, we should seek· different ways of talking to Chinese officials. (4) There should · be a unilateral defacto recognition of China. (5) There should be talk about Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS 406 STATE ST. • ~1nt .h·IS future bright • 91¥·eh· tote march of Dimes Soloi·sts Invited T·o Annual Concerto C.o:~petition Here Edgar Curtis, chairman of the Department of the Arts, announced the fourth concerto competition to he held for area college and high school students active in music. Auditions, being ·held Saturday, February 13th, in the Humanitie~ building are open to both instrumentalists and vocalists performing standard works from classical literature. Appointments for auditions· may be made by phoning Irma Hamilton, Executive Secretary for the Northeastern New York Student orchestra, Htlll1anities building. Only one audition piece, preferably a concerto with available orchestral accompaniment, is required., performed from memory. The contestant PlaY bring his own .accompanist if he chooses or use the accompanist provided by the college. J1,1st one movement of a concerto, if long, is required for auditions. Winner of the contest is .presented in concert, acc,ompanied by the Northeastern New York Student Orchestra which numbers sixty · players trom schools and colleges within a JOO;..miJe radius of ,the Capital district. The concerts will be given in late April and early May. Robert Gosselink, head of the. music department at State University Agricultural and Technical College in Cobleskill, has conducted th.e orchestra for the past two seasons and will be on the podium for the spring concerts. DOUGLAS MEN'S SHOES 319 STATE ST. NEXT TO UNDERPASS $1 DISCOUNT ON SHOES WITH UNION 1-D CARD . ESCAPE PRODUCTIONS A New e:l(petience A New escape A New iJNJ /or #he bead Water PiP$$ .. Jewelry · Candles .. Incense Antiques • Paper Backs Ptict!l we can all IJanJie 105 So. Church St.~ across from Bus Station J OPEN Mon. • Sat 10 am • 6 pm · Colony Art 1330 State .-. 346-7582 NOW· WHAT ·Is OBSCENE?' WE ARE DEFENDING YOUR RIGHTS AS CONSENTING ADULTS TO SEE \SEXUAL m£EDOM IN DENMARK\ BY SHOWING IT UNCUT AND UN· CENSORED AT EVERY PERFORM• ANCE. WHAT IS ...,..,~\\'~~ ... FREEDOM REALLY ALL ABOUT? The original, .the mo~t explicit, and the most controversial film on matters .of sexual activity and pornography continues uncut and uncensored. NigbtJy 7:20-9:20 P.M. c ( ( t a .8'' tl n S] 0 cc di re C< al er Wl re• SCI est arr ·Un th~ do I by de< bn wic car blu roc me• call Pr1 spo Alt T11 Stud be h Hale 7:45 partij Th Depa \Leat held ~ on intere: Depa1

CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 2, 1971 PAGE3 Greed Threatens Future Of · Alternative. Culture 0. K. Rating Fit For Threesome . by CORGOLIA MURKELSON leaders of the community. by PETER ·BJCKERMA.N Exploitation is a. term that one hears frequently in these days, as groups which have lop,g been oppressed stridently (and rightly) demand those rights which constitute a sense of freedom. With that rather obvious comment inserted at the outset, I now plan to explore exploitation as applied to a field generally regarded to he the domain of the young-rock music. Much .of the significance of rock to :us is that it transcends the ·mere production of music, anit is in itself an expression of a unique life-style associated \Vith the young, a counterculture which .rejects ·repressive aspects of modern life while it e,mbraces some principles which were first articulated in the ancient past. The preceding point was made to . illustrate that youth in general are not nihilistic; we respect forms and structures as long as they remain uncorrupted, but we see no reason for maintaining outmoded forms for the sake of tradition. Our music is not formless either, but rather in\'olves experimentation with a variety of frameworks. Contrary to ·the conviction held by many of our elders, rock (even bad rock) is much more than a jumble of noises; what may make it appear so is that it often avoids established musical norms. The .. resulting music is an exceedingly complex,. varied conglomeration of styles, ranging from Judy Collins to Sly, but maintaining the similiarity of a common audience. What all this very scholarly sounding analysis leads up to is the fact, that to the disgust of many, exploitation is running rampant within the rock rnusic sphere. This involves exploitation of the audience by the promoters and t)Je musicians; and if it continues much longer -we' can discard the notion that rock is a reflection of a non-exploitative, cooperative COl!nterculture. Of course, rock music has always been in part a business enterprise, largely operating within the existing capitalistic structures. Thus, tock . seems to oe by nature dualistic, .acting 1 as a force pressing for a cultural revolution while at the same time serving as a support . for established institutions. This ambiguity of p\!lrpose is probably . unavoidable to an extent until the present· system is no longer dominant. · However, there are limits set by standards of common decency, and when these are broken in favor of profit widespread disiUtis(orirrtent 1 cannot be far behind. To put it bluntly, greediness could ruin rock as a live entertainment medium. Specifically, a group calling itself National Student Productions is currenHy sponsoring a series of concerts at Albany's :Palace Theatre; this in The next session of the Student Faculty Bridge Club will be held on February 9, at the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:45 p.m. All those interested in participating are welcome. * * * * The Union Physical Education Department is again offering a \Learn to Ski\ program to be held Tuesday Evenings beginning on February 9. Petson.s interested should· contact the Department as soo.n as possible. * * * * . itself is .a heartening development for Capital District .rock fans, who have turned out in large numbers in previous years when big-name groups have appeared ih the area. Yet the iriherent advantage of such a promotion has already been called into question by the tactics of the promoters. . On Saturday night at the Palace the featured attraction was Chicago, a group which in recent months has achieved the mass popular acclaim that, in my view, they richly deserve. l attended the early show, and received reports from people yv ho saw the late show; in ap,par:ent1y both instances, the group was quite impressive. -Whatever one thinks of their music, anyone viewing. them live would probably agree that Chicago is an incredibly tight band. Most important, for tb.e audience, th~y possess an , abilitY to translate their album, cuts into--excellent live performances; this is something at which other jan- rock combos have been notable failures. Sut there were two aspects to the evening that prevented oAe from feeling complete exhilaration. First of all, the ticket prices ($5.50 and $6.50) were way out of line, an obvious attempt to exploit a hot property. The other factor, which made the o~erpricing that much more blatant, was the fact that Chicago played for onl;y one hour ten minutes in the early show and one hour thirty-five minutes in the late show. There were other minor hassles, such as the typical late opening of the theatre doors and resultant crush of humanity, but the high·prices and short length were the major sore points. l do not wish to imply that this sort of rip-off is solely caused. by avaricious promoters; a good example- of selfishness among musicians was displayed by the .Grateful . Dead, when they abandoned the Albany Armory last November without ever playing a chord. Groups which preach in ~heir music for a cooperative made of living can hardly be taken at face value when they demand exorbitant fees or play unduly brief sets. One of the obvious reactions to such impudence might be an audience boycott, but this appears unrealistic at present. I do suggest, however, that those who plan to attend future shows at the Palace question the man.agement concerning approximate length of the performance before- buying tickets. 1f the response is evasive or noncommital, th·e prospective . buyer might hint that he could just as easily miss the concert. There is no guarantee that this sort of action will provoke a satisfactory response, but at least it would be one way of showing' that the patience of the audience is limited, The National Poetry Press announces its spring competition. Any college student is eligible to submit his Verse, without restrictions on form or theme. Poems must be typed or printed on separate sheets and rnust include the name and home address of the student as well as his college address. Deadline for submission of manuscripts is Ap1il 10: National Poetry Press, 3210 Selby A venue, Los Angeles California, 90034. ' Some have proclaimed the Many are the legends of 1970's to be the Age of the unbelievable pornography Consumer. when people will originating in Denmark. This stand up and demand that the legalized smut is supposed to be forces of capital treat them with the finest in the world. Rather respect. lf we wish to advance the than imply that Danes corrupt cause of consumerism, as well as with very little visual stimulation, basic honesty, within our own ., or that their publicity falls far sub-culture, it is our obligation· short of the fact, I believe that to reverse this exploitation of the \Threesome currently boring ·'many by the few. dirty old' men of all ages, has been cut to prevent offending the local Out Krise Censorship Is Obscene by RAY KRISE, JR. If yo.11've been to D'Andrea's recently, you knoW that ene of the favorite songs on the jukebox for the crowd of helplessly hoping is called \We've Gotta Get You a Woman,\ by some group whose name I haven 1 t bothered to find out. It's a tyPical, disgusting, worthless D' Andrea's-type song, and says something to the effect that chicks are dumb and a pain and all that, but that every guy needs to have one around, presumably as a resort before masturbation. Now, I wouldn't usually bother writing about anything which has found popularity with the D'Andrea's people, except for the fact that \We've Gotta Get You a Woman\ has been banned by the kids at · the University of Connecticut. be censored). Now, we could get into a philosophical rap that the kid who busted open the jukebox had a right to do it, and I'd have to agree. But to ban the fucking record is obscene. If :there was only one person who wanted to hear it, he should be allowed the simple human dignity to do so-. In order to develop as a person, a human should have free access to everything that exists, and this includes the written and spoken w.ord - whether they are true or false. F0r only by knowing falseness can we appreciate the beauty of truth. Ultimately, nobody's gonna remember \We've Gotta Get You a Woman.\ Ifs a shitty .song - much worse than the average, even for the musical doldrums we're now in - and I do agree that it is sexist. But I have enough faith in people to think that, in time - generally in too much time, but in time just the same - they recognize stupidity and cruelty and either ignore them or laugh at them. .Censorship deserves such a fate. The film deals with a young lady, sometimes played by Judy Brown (\In certain scenes, Miss Brown was portrayed by a double\) who develops a mad physical attraction for one of her husband's fashion models. Naturally, she is eaten up by guilt, and unfortunately G:tle else. She goes to an asylum, and talks forever. There is so much .goddamn plot that any lascivious thought is bored out of you. The acting runs the gamut from uninspired to wretched. If people in skin-flicks cannot be interested in their occupation, what hope do electrical engineers have of finding happiness in their jobs? In the entire hour and a half, there are two scenes that would offend a puritan ica I grandmother. Both scenes ar-e the most blatant 1 have ever seen, but they hedge by distorting the image and having poor lighting. . The script and direction are obviously the work of people whose ambition far exceeds their talent. Not only are there no surprises, but their techniques are simplistic. For those interested, the public official who views films rs a middle-aged policewoman who hangs around female phys, ed. teachers. The film was so dull, she left half-way through · it. I could not hear most of the dialogue because disappointed people kept folding trenchcoats. To round out the bill, Proctor's has two shorts, one ·an hilariously bad \handbook of golf,\ and the second, a Boy Scouts Jamboree, a short obviously padded by shots of a group of lobotomy patients. The reasoning goes that \We've Gatta Get You a Woman\ is sexist and so is not fit for any good, clean, unpatriotic American kid to hear. In fact, the whole thing was supposed to have been started by some · cat who bashed open . the U Con jukebox while the record was on, took the damn thing out, and broke it up into little pieces. While I certainly agree with the cat musically, what he did was p'olitically wrorig. LUIGI'S. What we .. re talking about, people, is censorship. Anytime somebody prevents other people from reading or hearing something he thinks they shouldn't read or -hear, that's censorship. Censorship always RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian ·American food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bor starts off with the purest and \:::=:~::;:::::::::::::::::::::::! loftiest of intentions - check r- · · - Plato's Republic - and always degenerates into the handmaiden of the status quo, Censorship is every Top 40 radio station in· this ·country. Censorship is Julius Hoffman. Censorship is {occasionally) Concordiensis. Now, censorship is the students of U Con - it's not the school, it's the students. God, they should know better. The counter-culture is based on freedom, unlike the dying culture (and there are places where a sentence like that would Students living off-campus who wish to receive a copy of the monthly calendar, may pick one up anytime from Mrs. Marra in the .Student Activities Office. KAY'S IMPORTED CARS •MG • RENAULT • PEUGEOT •JAGUAR • TRIUMPH • FIAT • AUSTIN AMERICA • LOTUS ·Factory Authorized Sales - Service - Parts COMPLETE COLLISION SERVICE FACTORY TRAINED TECHNICIANS OVERSEAS DELIVERY ARRANGED Domestic & Imported Cars Bought & Sold NIGHT TOWING 482-4413 463-8786 949 CENTRAL AV. ALBANY, N.Y. MAMA .BIANCHI'S RESTAUR.ANT # 1135 Barrett Sto R111 Italian Food Cooked · To Order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. aqd SAT.

\ ! \ f-AGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, F~B. 2, 1971 Concordy Sports '74 Cagers Hang On To Defeat Albany St. by MARTY BERMAN The Garnet frosh basketball · squad raced off to a 26 p9int lead in the first half, and held on for a 58-51 victory over the Albany State freshmen Saturday night AI Westbrook's 16 points paced the Garnet to their eighth win in nine outings, and their second of the season over the Great Danes. In the first half the Dutchmen combined their own great defense and poor shooting on State's part to break the .game open. A switching man-to-,man and zone press completely unnerved the Danes and led to many Garnet fast breaks. State didn't help their cause by shooting 30 percent while the butchmen 'blistered the cords at a 53 percent rate. With 4:15 to go in the first half, Union led 35-9. Bill Carmody was held to a season low of four points but his passing and baU-handling were highlights in the game .... Gino Quirk sustained a damaged knee cartilage during the first ha:lf and now has the knee in a cast. .. During one of the many lulls in the game a courtside poll conducted by this reporter established that Great Dane cheerleaders Laurie Allen and Shari Kaplan, both blondes, and petite brunette Phyllis Agostinelli .would be this year's recipients of the \Nicolai Pilic Grant\ given annually to the most graciously endowed girls in the Tri-Cities' area ... Union's next game is home tonight against the Trinity Bantams, and this Friday Rochester pays a visit to the Fieldhouse. Northern Road Trip Brings Hoop 1 wo More Triumphs - by MARK SHUGOLL The U riion basketball team returned to its winning ways last weekend, turni.ng in two victm:,ies - including an 80-74 win over tough St. Lawrence. The hoopsters came back from their brief but grueljng northern journey with a 12-2 record behind them and a very big week of basketball ahead of them. The Garnet ventured to St. Lawrence on Friday night hoping to see just how good they really were. Union was coming off a tough one-point loss to Wesleyan which interrupted a ten-game winning skein; and were up against one of the better small college teams in New York State. The Larries went into the test with an 11-2 record. · quick 13-5 lead as . Greg Lewis picked a:part the Garnet z<;>ne defense with a hot shootmg hand. Union however, switched to a man to man and promptly rallied to tie the game at 17 all. The Dutchmen pulled ahead 35-30 in the waning moments of the first half, onlY to watch St. Lawrence run -off eight straight points. and leave the floor at halftime with a 38-35 lead. Forward Geoff Walker was fotced out of action late in the period with a strained muscle. The Dutchmen opened· small leads throughout most of the second half, until Bill Jenkins tipped in a stray Larrie shot to cut Union's margin to a single bucket, 70-68. With Jim Bolz and Rich Goldberg filling in in starting roles, the Dutchmen went on to embarrass the inferior home club. Tedisco again paced the win, connecting on his first nine field goal attempts as he poured in 20 ·points in the half and 32 for the game. Nine of the Garnet's 11 healthy ball players scored in the game, as Coach . Walters substituted freely. Union returns to the boards this evening ·hosting Trinity College at eight o'clock in Memorial Fieldhouse. The Garnet are also home twice this weekend facing powerful Rochester Friday night and Pace College of New York City Saturday evening. Rein Eichinger then seemingly ,_....-.;o;.;;;;;;o;;;~.-..;.....,.-;;;;:;;;_.;:;...,....; _ _, St. Lawrence jumped out to a put the game out of reach with a The Union offense died, though, in the second stanza. Although they-shot miserably ( 18 percent in the second half) the Dutchmen refused to slow down the pace and hold fot the good shot. Consequently, Albany was able to close the 23 point first half defecit to only twelV~ point\s:; 56-44, with 6:15 left on the clock. pair of layups that restored the G I R ·s k Garnet's six point lead, 74-68 . . ·ra·p· -·p ·,e·r·s . o· ar a:c· . Jim Tedisco iced matters When he converted on six straight foul shots as Union won the big DARI-TREAT 1049 Van Vr;mken All Kinds of -Fish To Up. end Mariners sh~~~~::!~~i scorers with 31 points, while Mike Doyle poured · Dirmen & Sandwiebes . - .. It was at this point that Westbrook and Bill Carmody started their stall, deliberately dribbling and passing away the minutes. The strategy almost backfired, though, as several steals and a hot hand\ by Reggie Smith narrowed the gap to 56,51, with a little less than two minutes on the clock. Tom Combs, however, connected on both ertds of a one-and-one foul situation to quiet the crowd. These shots proved to be the last points as the Garnet defense held and forced shots by Troy Moss and Byron Miller continually went astray. Around The Rim Joining Westbrook in the scoring parade were Herb Reichenbach and Combs with 13 points apiece. Stan O'Brien chipped in with 12. by MARK MINDEL With their backs up against the wall the Garnet grapplers came fro~ behind to take a 21-17~ victory from a very tough Kings Point team, and lift their unblemished dual meet record to 6-0. In what was without a doubt the most exciting match of the season, the Garnet were down 17- 8 with only the three heavyweight matches remaining. A loss in a11y match meant defeat for the team, and at least one pin was needed for victory. . The heavyweights responded ' to the situation and drew the previously docile crowd to its feet as 177 pound Pat Wardell recorded a hard-nosed 8-5 triumph, highlighted by two near falls and a near fight, captain Gary Morris pinned. his first man of the year at 4:40, and Swimmers Glue Their Best But. Mariners Win, 63-46 ,y GEORGE BAIN in the 200 free, and Mike Returning home to Foote Horwath's best time of the year Pool, the Union swimming team suffered a similar fate in the 500. swam its best meet of the season Alex Bodenstab clocked a 2:35.9, last Saturday but lost to his best time in the breaststroke undefeated Kings Point, 63-46 .. by nearly two and a half .secon~s The valiant Garnet captured five this year, but he still fimshed m firsts and set numerous seasonal the runnerup slot by a second. . . bests but could not overcome the Union's record slipped to 2-3, Long Island Mariners. and chances are tha~ th~re may Dave Seward won the 50 .free not be many more Vtctones. The with a :23. 5, and Steve Hill and team has now e~tered a ten .day Bruce Goldberg swept the layoff and sw1ms back mto butterfly, each with his best time acti~n Wed~esday, February 10, of the year. Hairy but hostmg old nval RPI. . dependable co-captain Burt Four more dual meets remam Yankiver took the 100 freestyle on the slate: fol~owed by the in the time of :54.0. · State Championships, March 5- In the optional diving, Union's 6, out west at St. Bonaventure. only diver, Mark Foster, -upset -----------,--._,., 1 the winner of the required diving by 11.90 points. And the . undefeated freestyle relay team did it again, winning in 3:34.0. · But luck was not with the Gamet all the way. They did not enter in the individual medley and saw Mariner Jim Kunkel trim 15 seconds off the pool record in the 1000 free, as he swam it in II :44.0. Kings Point DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fin• Homo Cooked Italian food in Ou• Ci.mfortoble Dining Room · Opp. The Brownell· Gate on Nolt Stntet swept that and two other events. Open. Daily I 0 to J A.M. Tom Klinkow's best time ever Sundoy• s P.M. to 1 A-.M. was only good for second place L,..,_ _ _,..., _______ ..... heavyweight Howie Benedict put in 18 and grabbed a team season the icing on 1he cake with his high of 22 rebounds. Tom Bacher second pin of the season at 4:20. added 14 tallies and 10 -rebounds Union had taken an early 8-0 despite aggravating an old ankle lead in the match when AI irtiury. Calabro zippe.d to his sixth The following evening Union straight pin at 3:40, . a.nd Mark made things easy, coast~ng to Zullo won a 9-5 dec1s1on. Both their second consecutive tnumph, frosh are undefeated in eight 87-58 over Queens University of matches. Benedict's wi~ --<Ainada, without the services of makes him 8-0, while Morns and two starters. Walker sat out the Wardell raised their records to 6- entire contest resting his injured 2, and 5-3, respectively. muscle while Bacher played only Despite the win, Union two minutes late in the first half. dropped five straight middle- weight matches, including what could have been a very crucial loss when Bill Benedict, 150, dropped a 3-2 decision on riding time. In fact, Union's win must be attributed to pinning power, as both tea~ won five matches . but the Garnet showed three pins. to Kings Point's one. The Matmen again hang their undefeated season on the line Saturday in a home contest against Williams. The contest is scheduled for two o'clock - HIGH & LOW SfYLES Bllli(Y SWEATERS URGE SELEC110N DRESSBJ:.US STRIPED lEANS Wi;TUJOK 1/JCKETS . .. ARGYLE SWEATER YEST /IODY SHIRTS, SLEEYELESS SWEA LEATHER iiELTS CORD PANTS SIJEDE FRINGE VE$'/'S FELT HATS YOUR NEW Film Processing CENT_ER TOP QUALITY COLOR and BLACK·& WHITE. Ask about 25% processing discounts. FAST SERVICE LOW PRICES IN THE MINI MALL • MOHAWK MALL • A Dhr. or Burns Photography, Inc. Unisex Clothlag For Beautiful People:· Fashion •••• Not Fa• qQ)apttt VII PLAZA SEVEN SHOPPING CENTER FERRO 'PHARMACY sis -Noit si~ •• ·· Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 FOUNTAIN .SERVICE One bloelc froin Brownell G~e Mid Winter SALE through FEB. 6 SAVINGS UP TO 60% BEAT MALL PRICES SHOP APtER VII I . . TROY-SCHENECTADY ROAD IN•xt to Jamaica'\~\~> LATHAM, N: Y. 785-5444. Daily 10 To 6 ·thru lill9 pcam.l .' r ' t v \ Jl v s n 0 Sl \·i tl h Cl Sl bl hi tc di ef te ca \I ar ar

Rich 1rting m to 1ome the nine 1Ured 2 for 'llthy arne, . uted this !lege orial also cing .ight 'ork J I • •• Founded 111 Union College _ 18'!7 VOLUME 100, NUMBER 26 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. FEBRUARY 5, 1971 Price Twenty Cents ·Coach. W.alters'- Views: Team Discipt.ine ·· Role. I>EA'fll AT AN EARL'¥ AGE, a penetrating study of· ·conditions in ghetto schoo!ii\ in · BQston, brought writer and · teacher Jonath11n Kozol a ·National .Book Award in 1968, including a $1,001) prize which be turned over to ghetto .community leaders. Much Faculty Unrest Caused By F acuity Shift ~y BJLL.HOLLERAN .Basketball coach· Gary Walters,.'.in an interview Tuesday with Cdii.:otdi«msis; ~ated that his haircut policy is. part of his over··all · ·program f'o:r team di&cit>line· and uti:itY and wUl continue. to. be such. in the future. According to . Walters, much of the success of his 13-2 squad is predisposed on the fact- of team discipiille standards imposed by the coach; Such discipline extends to the point that his players hair must' be \neatly trimmed. I want my team to be neat.''· Such a requirement is not \petty according to the coach. \The haircut rule ·is basically consistent with the · form of discipline that I want on my team.\ \I don't want to impose my will on· my players,\ Walt~rs explained. \But you h~ve to .have discipline.\ When it w~s .remark~d :that: · perhaps · such· discipline meant· the repression of· individualism, Walters commented, \Team_ success requires: tha~ · ipdividua:lisnt . mu-st be suppressed.\ Waiters added further that an analogy, however distasteful, cim be drawn between his program and a military situation. Walters does not believe that his haircut rules and overall standards of discipline are inconsistent or in coilflict with the ideals of a liberal education embodied by Uriion · College. Likening the· situation at the College to that of society at large, the mentor explained that his team, as a ~group within the College, has it:s own peculiar set of norms - just as differing groups in society at large have varying norms. Walters feels that the neatness of his players can actually affect the performance of the team and help the squad win games. \Consistent behavior has helped us as a team,\ he said. \The team hangs together.\ According . to Walters, this team unity exists both on and off the basketball court. .Walters was reminded that perhaps his standards were restricting the ability of others who may want to play on his team.- \They can choose if they want to play,\ the mentor stated. \But they will have to conform. Not ·everyone can go his. own way.\ . Interestingly enough, Walters' standards of team neatness do not apply to more individually oriented sports such as tennis or swimming. Basketball, however, \is a team sport,\ according, to the coach, \and . the basic issue here · is discipline.\ Walters will coach Union's tennis team this spring but he confided that because of the nature of the sport he would not expect his players to cut their hair, ' Walters explained that his discipline standards were not an effort on his part to segregate his team from the rest of the campus. Although tlle- team does \hang together\ off the court, an~ although many of the players are in the- same fraternity, Walters does not feel that his squad is 'becot;ning isolated from the rest .c;>f the school. On the contrary, Walters commented that Union is far and remote from such ''big-time\ college athletics conditions as ::;eparate dorms or dormitory floors for athletes. \You can~t be any fartll.er from the big-time than at Union,\ he admitted. .. Let's face it.\ Walters concluded the interview- by affirming tMt there is ... no :problem'' on his team. ·~talk io the players,\ he qffered. :ae admitted, howeve_r, . that the . :players were ~'all uptight\ and : ··~ticked off\ about· . the haircut · : contro~ers-y. Walters . cited the ··~outt>ide coercion••: . by . certain people· which -Jed: the campus to make ' 1 a mo'!lntain ·out of a molehill.\ A strong aclvocate of local · · . community .eQntrol of the schools, h!!. says \If the pare_.ts of tbe damn~d·, : doomed, bated, avoided ·and · . · despised c;an create an optimal . learning situation, .by an act ' of their own inventiveness, · then let tbe rest of America eat its heart out and ron. its bead. off to catch up.\ He accepted his 1968 : Award \in the names of those ·many hundreds .. of Negro · k;ids... who have never been ..•. allowed to make their voices. beard witbi~ America.\ KozQI's eonvucation address in Memorial Chapel on Tuescl~y, February 9 at 8 p.m. will be entitled \Political Indoctrination In the Public Schools.\ by PETER DICKERMAN Recent administrative actions have caused widespread discontent among members of the College faculty, which may have reprecussions extending to tbe students. At the general faculty meeting held on Wednesday, January 27, President Harold C. Martin announced three major cbanges concerning faculty status. Firstly, the .proportion of tenured faculty is to be frozen at 60 percent of the professorial total. Secondly, the President announced that the budget for faculty salaries will be increased by 4 percent over last year's figure. Several of the faculty were quick; to note that this increase in funds failed to match the escalating cost of -living. The third change, as announced by President Martin Building Progress .Report: Professo~s lnteruiewed :by LOUIS S,' SNITKOFF The Science and Engineering Center~ now housing the Biology and Cltemistry Departments, has recently been the subject of much campus discussion and controversy. . There are circulating ideas concerning \bugs\ in the new building as well as gross misconceptions about its so- called structural inadequacy. There seems to be a widespread belief that there exist severe deficiencies in the design of the 'complex which are causing the problems encountered by faculty during the past few weeks. Raymond Rappaport, Professor of Developmental Biology, attributes these problems solely to the complexity of the structure. \In a building so intricate and immense,\ he said, \there is bound to be a good deal of confusion.\ Rappaport asserted that, to the extent of his knowledge, there are no major faults with the building, and that most of the concern centers about small hut nonetheless aggravating matters. \1n almost every room, there are little things wrong. There will be a ceiling tile or a cabinet handle missing. These are things we're not worried about, but we'll make sure that they are fixed before anyone says the job is finished,\ he added. The most. pressing problem, said Rappaport, is that of the \hot and cold rooms\ on the third floor. An apparent engineer's error, led workmen to connect hot air ducts to a room designed to be below-room temperature, and cold air ducts into a body-temperature chamber. Correction of the problem requires a control engineer, a. representative of the refrigeration company, _an electrician, a plumber, and someone to work with air ducts. Its complexity alone makes it the item of greatest priority. Erwin Fishman, Chairman of the Department of Chemistry., in an interview with Concordiensis earlier this week, documented our previous account of the accident last weekend. lndeed,. a window had been left opened in a small research lab on the third floor ·of the $6-million center, causing water in a small, copper cold-water pipe to freeze, and crack the pipe in six places. When the windows were closed at 3 p.m. last Sunday by Dr. Fishman, the ice subsequently melted, sending water cascading down stairways and through the ceiling~ to the floors below. On the scene Sunday evening, Fishman estimated the damage to exceed $10,000 but after Maintenance had cleaned up, revealing only 200 damaged ceiling plates, some buckled floor tile and a few warped cabinet doors, he now suspects it to be more in the area of $1,000. 1 'there The Physical Education ·· · Department is planning to. continue its Learn-to-Ski- Program for the next five weeks. The bus will leave the West College Parking Lot on · Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. The bus fee of $10.00 is payable to the Physical Education department by Monday, and the $30.00 to cover rental, •lift ticket and lessons · for .. the five weeks is payable at the West Mountain Ski School on Tuesday, February 9. The pmgram begins this · . Tuesday, and features two· hour lessons followed by two free hours of skiing. The Phys. Ed. D.epartment .is also offering one term of carry• over sport for participation in the program. There will be an important meeting for all those interested in the Hamilton Hill Food Co-op on Monday night, Feb. 8, at !>:00 p.m. in SS115. Further discussion and planning for the food cooperative store will be held at this time. are no reliable estimates of damage,\ Fishman said, \but we weFe extremely lucky that the flood resulted in no damage to instruments.\ Fishman declined comment on other facets of the building because, for all practical purposes. the department is still in the process of moving. The only problems he has encountered thus far are regulatory in nature. \The temperature must be regulated individually for each room, depending upon its size,\ he said. \Otherwise l am quite pleased ':Vith the appearance and the arrangements.\ Dr. Fishman lauded the contractors, the movers, and the students for their efforts in moving the entir~ department out of Butterfield Hall in only three days. \We could request that any carefully-calibrated instrument be hand-carried by the professional movers, but we have not yet checked to see if they must be reset.\ He spoke of Butterfield as being demoralizing for students and faculty and added that the - new building will be a great boost for his department. Discussing· this issue of adverse alumni reaction to the colors of the building's corridors, labs, and doors, Fishman suggested \the use of primary colors is an announcement to the community and to alumni that Union College no longer carries the 'Ivory Tower' image of its past.\ Structural problems which arise, said Dr. Rappaport, are being discussed freely with electrical, plumbing, heating, furniture and building contractors. There is a committee consisting of Willard Roth, Chairman of the Department of Biology, Henry Butzel, Professor of l3iology, and Rappaport, which meets with these contractors weekly. \Not only can we communicate with them, but these meetings also allow them to communicate- with each Continued on Page 3 ~Jfter approval by the Board of Trustees, was the decision that contracts for untenured faculty will henceforth have a duration of one year, thus . reversing the past and present policy of two year contracts for junior faculty. It was this newly formulated policy, apparently coming as a complete surprise to most, which elicited the most vehement reactions. Among th.ose interviewed, there appear,ed to be a general cons..e-nsus that the new contract regulation had not been explained in convincing terms. There was a further feeling that the faculty as a separate entity had been affronted by the failure of the Administration to engage in prior consultation on the matter. Several junior faculty members see the move, though not intended to have this effect, as a potential threat against their independence, a virtual encouragement to insecurity. Professor D. C. Stineback of the English Department noted that President Mart in had explained this decision in terms of \curricular uncertainties\ and a possible changes in future staffing needs, caused by changing s~udent interests and modified academic requirements. However. Professor Stineback. speaking for himself and interpreting the opinions of other junior faculty in Division I, stated that \We don't really yet know the reasons\ for the one year contract provision. He was one of several people who expressed dissatisfaction concerning the lack of substantive communications between Administration and faculty. In response to a tJUestion, Professor Stineback remarked that there has been little formal faculty reaction to this point. but that the faculty in Division I appear \upset and confused.\ History Professor David Potts told of an informal faculty meeting which took place last Friday (January 29); it has not been determined whether any positive decisions werP. reached at that time. Professor Potts regarded the entire affair as generally another symptom of a power struggle between the Trustees and the faculty. History Department Chairman Manfred Jonas, who serves as Chapter Chairman of the College's branch of the American Association of University Professors, made his objection in the following manner: \I do not see any advantage to the College in this policy, in that its announcement needlessly raises apprehension.\ Professor Jonas viewed the contract provision as damaging in psychological terms far more than in actual impact. Moreover, Jonas saw the. tenure freeze as containing potentially seriouS implications for the future, as a number of qualified scholars will, due to economic factors, be unable to obtain tenure. Those professors interviewed concluded that the new policies were likely to have several effects which could prove disadvantageous to the students. Professor Stineback described Conti~ued on Page 2 ....

PAGE 2 CGNCORDIENSIS, FEB. S, 1971 Editor-in·Chief Peter J. Weingold Managing Editor James E. SteVJart Business Managef Lloyd Birns Editors Emeriti William Ouzer Henry G. Fein News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Asst. Business Managers • Joseph Achenbaum , Contributing Editor Richard L. Kramer Assoc. News Etlltor Peter Bickerrnan Doug Binder Features Editor Daniel Schochet National Adv. Mgr. · Mark Shulman PhotQgraphy Editor JodySaslow Layout 'Editor Doug Wong , Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long As!lt. Sports Editor Dave Conrey Mark Shugoll STAFF: Pattv Sipe, Les Goldman, Jay Hobart, Marc Lust, Harris Samuels, Judy Steinbach, Tom Conley, David Conti,, Greg Hamlin, Michaet Hollander,, George Kaplan. Robert A, Levme, Mike Meserole, Thomas Morante Ruth'· Morton, Barbara [VIcDonald,, Tom Mitchell, Len Solomon, George Bain,' Matty' Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark Zubresand Michael Rosenberg. Publi.hed TUC>da)'> and ftidPV!i during ihe >;ehool year by the student body ,ol Union ~'olk:¥i'. Schc.~y. JI!.V .. NalionaiAdvenising Rcpr~nlalive. National EducaJional AdvertiSing SerYICI!, Inc.. t'ollcgc Publishers Rcpresenlative 360 l.cxinglon Ave._ N. v:c. Editorial olriCC, OJd (iym~ Union C\cllege Publ;,;.tion Oft;..,, ·n;., World Pul!licalions. 771 Slate Str~I .. Scheru:ctudy N. v: 123117 ~ ~3S6. ,Ea!•red in !be Schenectady posl, olllcc as Second cia., Mail Mauer, Suh.cnpllon 20 c:ents a copy. $6 a year dehvcn:d anyWhere ,in Ihc Uni~ Sral~. Insecurity The administration's decision to award junior faculty one-year contracts· in place of the usual two-year contracts threatens, in the short and long run, to destroy • many of the advantages that attracted students to Union in the first place. If they are given short term contracts, some of the junior faculty feel that it will be necessary to limit their advisory duties, refuse to aid students in their independant ptojects, and not serve on faculty committees. This loss is incalculable, for the most receptive and stimulating minds have often been those of our junior faculty. Their isolation from the events on campus may result in a depersonalization of Union, as the college slowly atrophies from the stagnation of the same minds. The most subtle and the most dangerous consequence will result from the faculty's fear of an administration constantly over their shoulders. Experimentation and educational excitement will disappear as faculty retreats to the safety of approved methods and courses. The right to fail will be gone as well as the successful innovation. The whole idea of this type of pressure looks remarkably like \publish or perish,\ a policy not openly admitted to by the administration but one which is apparently in effect. This is even more repugnant than, the most recent actions with regard to salaries and contracts. The quality of a teacher is not dependent upon the amount of research he does, and is not improved by making him sweat under the threat of a one year appraisal. , LETTERS To the Editor, Concordiensis: I'd like to say how amused I was by the little pun in the headline over my last column. \Out Krise\ is pretty clever, but I'm afrai!i the headline writer, Bill Ouzer, invoked poetic license (Ouzer has always been licentious) in the pronunciation of my name, which rhymes with rice, not with rise. A noble attempt, but in view of his stretching of the facts, I'd have to say that you \hulled Ouzer. All Power to the Pun, Ray Krise, Jr., '71 \' \' \' * To the Editor: , Seven'' and still have trouble with 'Kuntsler'. With this in mind I hope Ray can avoid neurosis concerning our pronunciation of his name and thereby be spared a Krise complex. Love Story Lives, William Ouzer, '71 F acuity Unrest Continued from Page I several likely effects of the contract limitation. In his view, junior faculty will tend to: curtail their work in independent studies; avoid service on college committees; reduce office hours for students; be less willing to advise students. Other faculty members supported this scenario, at least in part. It is thought that when a PR professor feels his position threatened, he will proceed to act in a way which will further his person a I advancement; to the possible detriment of his interactions with students. I would like to pablicly apologize for fostering a mispronunciation of the last name of one of my dearest friends. I can only defend myself in Mr. Krise's eyes by explaining that source of the pronunciation used for purpose of pun in the last issue was an employee of SAGA food. Sine~ this pronunciation controversy arose I checked again with my source who now claims t~t Ray doesn't ============= pronounce his name that way at all: you just can't trust sources. Perhaps I can comfort my friend' by pointing out that, in the past, I have mispronounced the names of three of the \Ch\cago There will be an important meeting of PYE (Protect Your Environment) o·n Monday. February 8 ~t 4:30 p.m. in the Social Sciences Lounge. LAOTIAN-· FUNNIES , by RAY KRISE JR. General C. Sucker paced in his office, the smoke from his Cuban panatella rising angrily into the air. His orderly, Corporal Mann, leafed idley through the latest issue of the New York Tim~s, chuckling every now and then. \This news embargo's got 'ern mad as hell,. sir,\ he said. General Sucker looked at the Corporal over his shoulder without interrupting his pacing. \We knew it would,\ he sneered. \The damn newsmen think they have to know everything, they don't realize that - for reasons of internal security ~ we can't let the country know everything we do. Christ, I only wish that propitious conditions would set in so we could get the mission over and done with. Then we can let the people know most of what's going on.\ \What specific mission is this, sir?\ asked Corporal Mann. \This is the mission wherein' we maxirnaize our pacification potentialities in Southeast Asia by deploring, I mean, deploying our and allied personnel and defensive materiel into border countries in order to erradicate enemy caches and refuges and liberate the people of Southeast Asia from the fear of Communist Russell Sage College will present the second 50 minute color film, entitled ''The Great Thaw;', in the CIVILISATION series on Feb. 15, 1971, at 7:30 p.m. in the Schacht Fine Arts Center on the Sage Campus. Admission is free and the public is welcome. * * * * The Power Authority of the State of New York will be interviewing in the Placement Office on Tuesday, February 16, 1971. They are interested in EE degrees. This is a company that has signed up since the list of companies was mailed to you. If you are interested sign up in the Placement Office before the 15th of February. * * * * Four seats available on chartered bus, Saturday, Feb. 6th, to New York 'City, leaving Memorial Chapel 8:00 a.m., for Museum of Modern Art; returning 10:00 p.m. (Round-trip $7 .25) Call Gail Genrge, if interested 393-0629. * * \' * 1330 State - 346-7582- NOW· WHAT ·Is OBSCENE? WE ARE DEFENDING YOUR RIGHTS AS CONSENTING ADULTS TO SEE \SEXUAL FREEDOM IN DENMARK\ BY SHOWING IT UNCUT AND UN· CENSORED AT EVERY PERFORM· ANCE. WHAT IS SEXUAL FREEDOM REALLY ALL.ABOUT? The original, the mo~t explicit, and the most controversial film on matters bf sex.ual activity and pornography continues uncut and uncensored. Nigbtly 7:%0..9:20 P.M. aggression.\ ''Oh,\ said Corporal Mann. \Does 'that mean we're gonna l;>ornb ~he shit out of Laos?\ \It does,\ smirked General Sucker. \If only I could give the word ... \ There was a smart knock at the door, and _in strode General Wert, the only thirty-year-old General in the Armed ·Forces. He had gotten David his job with the Washington Senators. \Hey Chuck,\ he said to General Sucker, \we just got word the gooks are being awfully stubborn. Bob Hope says they refuse to negotiate. until we d~·aw our 30,000 troops back from the Laotian border, as a gesture .of good faith.\ \Faith!'\ snorted General Sucker. \What do they know about faith!? They don't ev,en believe in Christ!\ \But who sent the troops there in the first place?'' asked General Wert. \I didn't.\ \I didn't, either,\ said General Sucker, still pacing. \But you can bet that somebody big did.\ \You mean like President Ni ... \ \No. I mean like Strom Thur ... \ The red telephone beeped. General Sucker fell upon it. said \'Yes sir. Fine sir,~' and hung Fellowships are available from the Eleutherian Mills-Hagley Foundation for graduate study at the U. Delaware. The Hagley Programs combines economic history, history of· technology and. museum history. The , Program is designed for those planning careers in college teaching, business, economic or technological history researching, or in administration of historical agencies. March l st deadlines for applications. More information is available in Mrs. Beam's office. * * \' * Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. ,.r::. ·-. - -: : .. -:~ ~-~ ...... ~~ ..... ·,!:\ -~ ... ~ ... ·~···· ·' ·~· • 'l:_\' .. •-(1 . Sohenec&adyia famous d ....... abop, {for tine poerallou) 166 ~ay St. THREE UNION GR,IWUATES IN .FAMILY. q,p. \Mann!\ he bar:ked at the relaxing CoqJoral who had been trying to corn~ up with a four letter word meaning \sadistic organization;; , for the Times crossword. ''Get me in touch with Saigon. Now I can give the order to atta ... uh, :proceed with the operations for the sake of humanity.\ ~'Why? What h;;tp.pened?\ asked General Wert, ''What was the key factor we were waiting for?\ .. The Weather Buteau came through for U!l,\ smir}(ed General Sqcke.r. 'The av~rage ternpetature in the country is twenty below zero. It's too cold to strike or protest.\ \God bless America,\ gasped General Wert. \From sea to shirting siege,\ agreed General Sucker. Jobs Europe program officials announced that they have /00 salaried jobs available, ·anytime of the year, in: London for young· Americans 18 to 26 years of age. The &im of this 1 OBS EUROPE pragrarn is to give young people a guaranteed inexpensive and unique opportunity to live in, and- learn abQut, Europe. These salaried jobs are for general help with large 1st class , London hotels. An important feature of the program, besides the guaranteed London job, is the fact that participants are free to travel where, and for as long as, they wish after completing their work assignment. For free details: Send a stamped self-addressed (business size) envelope to: Jons EUROPE, 13~55 Cantara St., Panorama City, California 91402. IT'S NOT TO LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. · Join Our Wine Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store (Across The Field) 1505·VanVranken Ave. COME SEE US FOR A SUNDAE OR A \HOT CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM STORE 834 McClellan St. WE CARRY A FULL. ~INE OF GROCERIES, MEATS, BE:VERAGES; ASSORTED SNACK ITEMS,; ETC. MEMBER BUY·RITE STOtlES OPEN 8 A.M. TILL 10 P'.:M. 7 DAYS A WEEic ... :

H the I been t four adistic Times l1 with order l1 the e of 11ed?\ t was aithig ca:me :nerl:d ::rage ry is cold :tsped iege,\ I cials 700 time ,ling· ~ee >B'S ~ive eed ~ue am for lass· the ~d bat vel 1ey lrk CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 5, 1971 PAGE 3 ~tMidsummer Night's Dream,\ uHome\ Reuiewed yourself that these men really by BRUCE H.IJUSTEN aren't insane, that they are in fact Two shows currently playing just acting and not just being o~ Broadway (both British; both themselves. I've seen it four times here with th(l original casts; both now and r 1 n still not sure. here for limited engagements) are Wlltl:h the Lips so outstanding in their own Watch Miss Tandy's lips (she resp.ective ways that it i!! more has just replaced Dandy Nichols than. worth my time to tell you in the tole of Marjorie) form an .about them, worth your time to absolutely upside-down U. Listen get toN ew York to see thern and to Miss Washbourne's laughter. well worth your money to pay Listen to the perfection of the even outrageous prices to_ .get cockney accent. good seats for them. ~~Home\ ends its run ~;tt the The.Y are the Royal Court M Th t · F b 2·0 orosco . ea er ·On · ·e · . · .. production of David Storey's Tickets are scarce as it is, but if new play \Hom¢ with Sir John you manage to have a choice, sit Gidg·!ld and Sir Ralph -as near the front of the orchestra Richardson on stage together for as you can get. 'Perspective of the the first time in a modern play; · stage is not important heFe, and and Peter ·Brook's production of the <;:loser you get the more you'll \A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' be able to see and appreciate the which .opened at Stratford'-upon..- dazzlingly-correct manifestations Avon with the Royal of the characters that these actors Shakesp:e!J:re' . Company last present. summer. Peter Brook's \Midsummer \Home\ is clearly an actors' Night's Dream,\ on the other play while this production of ''A hand, is a veritable celebration of Midsummer· ;Night's Dream\ is the theater in which perspective ipdisputably a director's. of the stage, of the colors, of the ·HHome,\ which takes a morose props, of the costumes, of the but low-keyed look at life in an \empty space\ that is the non- asylum, is a typical David Storey foUndation for any Brook play {Storey, an athlete-turned- production, all have an playwright, also wrote ''This important role with regard to the Sporting Life\ as well as \The play as a whole. Contractor,\ a play about the · Brook (JvlaratjSade, US, working.class Englisb.tnan which Scofield's \King Lear,\ Seneca's has been running for over a yeat \'Oedipus Lord of the Flies, in London)in that there is really etc.) makes his ••Dream\ into a no plot and nothing actually circus. The stage is a white box happens~ - with ladders at either ;side, with it is as if we were to take a two doors at the rear, and with a typical day in the lives of the five platform above the entire box characters with which we are from which members of the cast concerned in \Home and peer down at the happenings simply shine a spotlight on them below. for the two-and-a-half-hours Theseus doubles as Oberon; befoJ;e, during and after their Hippolyta, as Titania; Puck, as lunch. We know nothing more Philostrate and Egeus, as Quince. about them at the end than we Thus the entire play becomes did at the beginning. even more of dream emphasized Home a Classic with Puck's ironic, ~hat fools And to me, at least, this play is these mortals be\ and more not outstandingly good. It is the strOltgiy reconfirmed with his direction and primarily the acting closing soliloquy, \Think but ·which make \Home\ a classic of this ... · that you have but the British theater. Without the slumbered here ... and this ... is no direction of Lindsay Anderson more but a dream.\ (\If ... \) without the perfectly- Tired Girdle simple~ · unostentatious, Puck (who replaces Bottom in unobtrusive set of Jocelyn this production as the central Herbert (she and Andei-scm also comic figure) delivers his worked with Storey in \The hypnotic \Up and down and up Contractor\) arid primarily and· down\ lines and then without the · acting duo of proceeds to taunt Demetrius and Gielgud and Richardson (and to · Lysander by heckling them while a not-much,..Iesser- ex.tent, Mona on stilts. He tells Oberon that he W ashbourne, Dandy Nichols and will \put a girdle about the earth now Jessica Tandy); \Home\ in forty minutes\ and then would be a flop. , · · proceeds to fall asleep while In fact 1 think I would dare go suspended on a trapeze in mid- so far as to say. that \Home\ air. should not and probably will not He and Oberon sway back and be produced again in the West forth in rhythmic harmony on End until and unless Britain can the trapezes and· -the potion from produce the likes of this team. the magical flower arrives in the lf Storey does have anything form of a silver sa,i.tcer which to tell us, it is merely to point out Puck !tnd Oberon spin and twirl what a fine line there is between back and forth between one sanity and insanity. He does not another. actually tell us until well into the From atop the platform, the first act that we are situated in a fairies dangle gargantuan fishing sanitorium, and·~ many: British rods made of steel which suggest critics and many of my own not just the trees in the Athens friends who have seen the play were completely unaware of this until the revelation is blatantly made. We might just as well be situated in the garden of an old- age home or even a vacation resort in Cornwall or Devon. Watch Gielgud's hands and feet (he's Harry, the bald one with the sloppier suit), Watch Richardson.-s eyes (he's -Jack and wears the :hat, does the- card tricks and looks slightly neater) and listen to the quivet in his voice. Listen t<.l Gielgnd repeat \Oh yest \Oh; no, •• · and \Oh wen~· with a varieTy of interpretations and connotations that is - beyo-nd· . my ~comprehension. · Watch · therq - produce tears instantaneously. ·Imagine trying to learn the incredibly brief, .meaningless lines of insignificant- no'nsequiturs that BRING YOUR ----1 DATE Entertainment 7 Nights make up this play and which Jackets .Requh'ed these people perform. with 1617 Union St. Sch'dy pte<.ision,. just at Storey wrofe it,.·· 4--.·-...._......_ _________ __...J Qight after night •. Try to convince woods,. but that the lovers are Kane in p~rticular, clad in yellow nothing more than puppets and pantaloon$, exudes by means of part of the manipulated dream. the happy, carefree nonchalance The text of the play as- of his boyish face aftd the supple, Shakespeare wrote it is never ·airy flexibility .of his movements bastardized. ''Give me your not just the gaiety of the bands, if we be friends,\ Puck celebration, but his own ends the play \And Robin shall particular \Dream . .' Howard, restore amends.\ And he parades who sip:mltaneously did a up the aisles of the orchestra and . ~tunning Hamlet in last summer's then to the mezzanine shaking RSC Stratford season and who hands with the audience while -was voted the most promising the rest of the cast follows suit. actor .of 1969 by London's The audience, throughout the theater cnucs, conveys both production, participates to the Theseus and Oberon with a mild, extent that it is made to feel it is unassertive sense of authority. observing the play from the This \Dream\ will be at the wings of the stage rather than Billy Rose Theater 1;1ntil the end from the auditorium. of Mard1, accordmg to the Brook denies .the accusation of advertisements, and tickets are some critics that this is purely his extremely difficult to come by, play, that he is the ultimate I'm . told, ?owever, that co~e manipulator and that each Apnl there 1s a good chance th1s performance every night is production will move to Brooklyn, where Brook insists the front seats should go for the cheapest ($2.50) price and the rear seats will be more expensive. , Those sincerely interested in the theater, Brook rightly believes, are the ones who usually cannot afford it. Don't sit uo too close for this, and don't sit in the back of the orchestra where the mezzanine may block your vision of the a·bove-stage platform. Ideal seats for the best perspective are smack in the middle of the orchestra. All I can say by way of conclusion is that if your interest in theater is at all serious, you simply cannot !!fford to miss either of these productions. l can neither reiterate that too often nor emphasize it too strongly. predictable and unchangeable. \'The Dream' is, among other things,\ he says, \a celebration of the arts of the theater. On one level the actors have to display a physical yirtuosity an expression of joy. Hence this production involves acrobati9s, circus ski.lls, trapeze acts. Equally, certain parts of the play cannot be played without using a Stanislavskian sense of natural development. There's the play we all know - and also a hidden play, a hidden 'Dream: That's the one the actors set out to discover for themselves.\ Building Progress Continued from Pugc l Standouts And in this respect, I think Alan Howard as Theseus/ Oberon and John Kane as Philostrate/ Puck are the standouts of the production. other,\ Dr. Rappaport said. Although the Chemistry Department has been meeting more informally with the contractors, Dr. Fishman will join the Biology threesome next week. Rappaport and Fishman both cited a security problem already present in the building. There have been incidents of younger children from town wandering around in the building and a more serious problem involving equipment earlier this week. The faculty seeks to keep the building open to students who have legitimate business in laboratory research. This will probably be accomplished through a rather complex keying system, now ·under consideration. Under this SEX IS YOUR BUSINESS ('BIRTH CONTROL IS OURS) We believe you're entitled to your privacy when it comes to buying contraceptives. We're a nonprofit family planning agency and we offer you contraceptives through the privacy of the mails. We specialize in men's products (including two new European im· · portsl__;but we have nonprescription foam for women, too. A~d a wide assortment of books and pamphlets to answer your questions on birth control, family planning, the population problem and ecology.~· · · . - 1 (3 h of Interested? Send $4 for package of m1x~~ sa!\P es eac · . five condom brands, including both Bnt1sh Imports) or wr1te for full details. Th.is program is endOrsed by th.e Community and Family Study Center of the Universfty of Chicago. ••••;;;;·~·~~;~~;··;~~~~~~;:·~;~:•'\\\\\•'\\\'\'\\\\'\'\\\\'\\\\''\\'\'\\'\\\'\'\\\\''1 105 N. Columbia St., Dept. J.li , Chapel Hill, N. C. 27514 . j:::.:.::: •. Gentlemen: Please send me __ Sample package (remittance enclo.sed -. --· Full details without obligation. Name----------~~----------------~---------~- M~ ~ .~ ~~ - ! t ................................................................................................................................. . ALL-PANASONIC STORE CELEBRATES MOVE TO LARGER \THEATRE.\ Center Stage has doubled in size in just 3 months! We're still in the mini-mall-but bigger, and better than ever. There's more to se.e. And, more to save. To celebrate our opening, we're offering these specially priced \curtain-raisers\: PANASONIC 4-track \pop-up'.'stereo casse~ttast­ wind recorder with AFC FM!AM!FM Stereo dio, speakers. Aeg $179.95, now$12 .95 FiANASONIC Deluxe Components. FM/AM!FM Stereo radio, automatic station finder, and matched speakers, automatic changer, stereo headphones. Complete package Reg $204.95, now $177.00 IO:~Tt=ISCCHAt;f] ooOooooooooooooocc~oQ6c~ocooo~coc?oc~ooooooooooovooooo \ ... PANASONIC IS THE WHOLE SHOW!\ IN THE MINI MALL AT MOHAWK MALL, SCHENECTADY • TEL. (511) 3C6-4t3C Open 10110 .a.m. to f:30 p.m., Monday throuah Saturday ~------------------------------------~ / Coming: 10 Yrs. After, Elton John. llot Tuna, Willie Dixon, and many, rri~ny at hers P~blicity: New Concept A~soc's, Inc. Production & Sound: Nat'l Student EXcept where Indicated· 2 shows nightly at 7:30 & 11:30 P.M., seating by section/Ticket lnfll: (518) 434·3345 - Business office: (518) '34·2179 - N. Y.C. (212) JU2·0909. \Be sure to get stub and hand stamped upon entering show.\ Mail Orders: Check or money order payable to \Nat'l St!ldent Productions, Inc.\ BQX 712, Alb., N.Y. 12201. Enclose self-ad· dressed stamped envelope & specify date & time. Orders received 1 wk. before show will be held at box .office until show time. Box office opens at 2 P.M. dJI)' of show. Remain· ine tickets available one week prior (through day precedlne show): Alllanr: MABOU, 238 Washin&ton Ave. 434·3290; SchenactaciYI THE OTHER SlOE. OF TODAY, 135 Jay St. 346·9108; Muawk M*ll: CRYSTAL MANSION & DROME SOUND; TtoJ: THE MUSIC SHACK, 9'7 Con· IP\SSS St. 273·1400.

'. ' ,.· PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, FER 5,.1971 ·concordy Sports· ·. .~ cagers Bounce Bantams.; Mile Relay. Impresses 'Jackets, PaCe Next Foes At cornell Invitational After 4t:h ·ln .Millr·ose. by MARK SHUGOLL The Union basketball· team shook off a lethargic first half performance ·on Tuesday· night and went on to defeat Trinity. College 94-77 in a game that saw Jim Tedisco tally his one thousandth career point. The Garnet posted their third win in a . row and are now 13-2 while I the Bantams' slate dropped to 3-7. Union took a 47-44lead at halftime, with tedis.co's shattering of the four figure barrier the ha1fs only excitement. The Junior reached the milestone on a pair of free throws with 1:47 left in the stanza. At the same time the 5-7 star moved into second place on the all time Union College scoring list with 1,014 points, trailing only Dave Santos' total of 1,117. In the second half, the Gamet switched to a ione defense and immediately began to pull away from their mediocre opponent. The visitors were held to 14 points in the first ten minutes of the half, and never threatened. Union hit on fifty percent of its shots, tallying on 35 of 70. Trinity connected on 30 of 68 for a 45 percent shooting average. Tedisco ended up with 23 • points for his nights work. Tom Bacher also pitched in with 23 as well as a game high of 15 r-ebounds. Mike Doyle and Dave Shames each tallied 14 and Rein Eichinger, starting in place of the injured Geoff Walker, had nine. In , all, ten hoopsters brok~ into the scoring column as Coach DARI-TREAT 1049 Van Vranken All Kinds of Fisb Dinners & Sandwiches ' . Walters went to his bench in the waning minu1es of the game. Things might get .a little tougher for the Garnet this weekend, starting this evening .as Union hosts a well regarded team from the University of Rochester. The Yellowjackets piay a tough schedule of both major and small college cQmpetition. To date they are a .misleading 6-6, with their most impressive win coming at the expense of the Air Force Academy, 81·71. Rochester is led by captain Eric Fass, a 6-3 seniqr fornard averaging 19.5 points .pet game. Jackson Collins, a 6-5 forward, has managed a 16;9 per game mark,. while sophomore guard Joe Winters has chipped in with 15 points per game. Winters has been sidelined with an ankle injury since mid-December, but is expected to play against Union. At halftime of the encounter, the late Ernest B. Houghton, Union's first basketball' All-American and co He ge basketball's player of the year in 1915, will be honored. His son, Donald Houghton will present the school with a Helms Athletic Foundation A ward at that ti:rtle. On Saturday, the Gamet entertain Pace College. The New York .outfit is lQ.,9 on the season as has one common opponent with Union. The Setters dropped a 69:.61 contest to Kings Point while the Dutchmen booted the Mariners 66-59. Pace defeated Bnion last season 76-75 in overtime in the first meeting ever between the two school~ . A win in either of the two weekend contests will mark this as the most successful basketball season for the Dutchmen in, 45 years. No team has topped thirteen victories since the 1925· 26 season when. the Garnet five posted a 174 record, the most wins ever at Union. Freshmen Hoop Rolls On; Trinity fro.sh latest Victim by LARRY GORDON The Dutchmen freshmen hoop team gained its eighth victory of the basketbali campaign Tuesday night with a convincing 82-64 win over the Trinity College freshmen at Memorial Fieldhouse. The Union freshmen who now show a near flawless 9-1 won-lost record, were never headed throughout the contest. The outclassed Trinity squad opened with .a two- one- two zone defense,· but the aggressive play of guard Bill Carmody forced Trinity to switch to man-to-man. This move by the Bantams was also eventually foiled by Carmody and they ended up trying a three- two zone. Coach Bill Scanlon's Union yearlings utilized a successful man-to- man press in the first half. The press caused many turnovers and the Gamet pulled ahead on fast breaks and the scoring of starting guard AI Westbrook. Trinity kept the ballgame reasonably close behind the shooting of Ron Duckett. Duckett was practically the entire Bantam team, dominating the boards and scoring eighteen first half points. The Dutchmen lead by as much as twenty at one point, 42-22, but the loss of Carmody because of three personal fouls allowed Trinity to pull within eight points by halftime. _ Scanlon's squad maintained excellent ball control throughout the second half forcing Trinity to commit numerous fouls, With 3:47 remaining to play Duckett, Trinity>s leading scorer and rebounder, was charged with his fifth foul. The final few minutes of the game featured a number of technical fouls called on Trinity. The final score was 82-64, with Westbrook leading the Union scoring with 22 markers. Herb Reichenbach, the team's strongest rebounder, scored seventeen points and playmaker Bill Carmody added thirteen to the victory. Duckett of Trinity lead all scorers with twenty five points, but only seven of those tallies came in the second half. The freshmen make their next appearance tonight when they face the University of- Rochester in Memorial Fieldhouse. Tl;le. game ., begins at 6:15. . . Cramming for fin·als! Feed· your brain of 135 Nott Terrace Mon.-- Thurs. 10 a.m. - 11 p.m. · Fri.-· Sat. 1 Oa.rn. -· 2 a.m. Sun. 10 a.m. - 12 a.m. ' In a. warm-up for their triangular meet with track powers Springfield and Lehigh this Saturday, the Garnet cinder squad traveled to Ithaca last week to .compete in the Cornell InvitationaL The mile relay quartet; which garnered a fourth place in their particular section of the Millrose Games, turned -in the outstanding performance of .·the meet. The team of Al Prysunka, Steve Wood,TiJ:n.McCabe, and Rick Jaszczak won their event in 3:26.6, far outdistancing a highly-touted squad from the host Ivy school. · . · ·. . ; McCabe and J'aszczak, ilie · \Mr. Everythings\ of the Dutchmen track team .. tecord~d the fastest legs in the event McCabe was clocked in 51 secands on the eighth-of-,a..,mile track, while AU-American Jaszczak posted a phenomenal 50.2 time. · The duo also did well in the 600 yard :mn, with Jaszczak muscling himself to a 1:13.6 victory and McCabe copping the third spot, .8 ofa second behind. · · · Jerry Cuffy and Dave Rice ,also djd well in th,e meet. Cuffy finished fourth irl the 60 yard dash,. while Ri~e recorded a career best of 4:41 in winning his section of the one mile run. CLE.AR.ANCE OFF !> Groups of SUITS SPORTCOATS OUTERWEAR PAN.TS SWEATERS SHIRTS··· . ' NECKWEAR LE·ATHERCOATS SAVE 50% IDqr §quirt ~bnp 420 STATE ST. 377•3061 ! ·~------~--------~----~------~----------~~ ~--------------------------------------------------~ . ( s \ tl 0 n tc a: T •) 1¢ C( a1 m ec \a M fe1 UJ ac all fre ab to tin thi as1 - - ) out Eas tea( Ch~ Wee

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 5,.1971 Concordy Sports ' Cagers Bounce Bantams.; Mile Relay Impresses 'Jackets Pace Next Foes At Cornell Invitational by MARK SHUGOLL 'Walte<S went to hi• beneh in the Unio .• ·, first ba.ketball After 4th In Millrose The Union basketball team waning minutes of the game. All-American and college Things might get a little basketbaH's player of tile year in shook off a lethargic first half tougher for the Garnet this 1915, wit! be honored. His son, performance on Tuesday' weekend, startimg this evening as Domald Houghton will present night and went on to defeat Union hosts a well regarded team the school with a Helms Athletic Trinity. College 94-77 in a from the University of Rochester. Foundation Award at that time. game that saw Jim Tedisco The Yellowjackets play a tough On Saturday, the Garnet schedule of both major and small entertain Pace College. The New tally his one thousandth college competition. York outfit is 10-9 on the season career point. The Garnet To date they are a misleading as has one common opponent posted their third win in a 6-6, with their most impressive with Union. The Setters dropped row and are now 13-2 while win coming at the expense of the a 69-61 contest to Kings Point the Bantams' slate dropped to Air Force Academy, 81-71. while the Dutchmen booted the 3_ 7. Rochester is led by captain Mariners 66-59. Pace defeated Union took a 47-44 lead at halftime, with Tedisco's shattering of the four figure barrier the half's only excitement. The Junior reached the milestone on a pair of free throws with 1:47 left in the stanza. At the same time the 5-7 star moved into second place on the all time Union College scoring list with 1,014 points, trailing only Dave Santos' total of 1, 117. In the second half, the Gamet switched to a zone defense and immediately began to pull away from their mediocre opponent. The visitors were held to 14 points in the first ten minutes of the half, and never threatened. Union hit on fifty percent of its shots, tallying on 35 of 70. Trinity connected on 30 of 68 for a 45 percent shooting average. Tedisco ended up with 23 points for his nights work. Tom Bacher also pitched in with 23 as well as a game high of 15 rebounds. Mike Doyle and Dave Shames each tallied 14 and Rein Eichinger. starting in place of the injured Geoff Walker, had nine. In all. ten hoopsters broke into the scoring column as Coach DARI .. JREAT 2049 Van Vrmlten All Kinds of Fish Dinners & Sandwiches Eric Fass, a 6-3 senior forward Union last season 76-75 in averaging 19.5 points per game. overtime in the first meeting ever Jackson Collins, a 6-5 forward, between the two school~; has managed a 16.9 per game A win in either of the two mark, while sophomore guard weekend contests will mark this Joe Winters has chipped in with as the most successful basketball 15 points per game. Winters has season for the Dutchmen in 45 been sidelined with an ankle years. No team has topped injury since mid-December, but thirteen victories since the 1925- is expected to play against Union. 26 season when the Garnet five At halftime of the encounter, posted a 17-4 record, the most the late Ernest B. Houghton, wins ever at Union. Freshmen Hoop Rolls On; Trinity Frosh Latest Victim by LARRY GORDON The Dutchmen freshmen hoop team gained its eighth victory of the basketball campaign Tuesday night with a convincing 82-64 win over the Trinity College freshmen at Memorial Fieldhouse. The Union freshmen who now show a near flawless 9-1 won-lost record, were never headed throughout the contest. The outclassed Trinity squad opened with a two- one- two zone defense,· but the aggressive play of guard Bill Carmody forced Trinity to switch to man-to-man. This move by the Bantams was also eventually foiled by Carmody and they ended up trying a three- two zone. Coach Bill Scanlon's Union yearlings utilized a successful man-to- man press in the first half. The press caused many turnovers and the Gamet pulled ahead on fast breaks and the scoring of starting guard AI Westbrook. Trinity kept the ballgame reasonably close behind the shooting of Ron Duckett. Duckett was practically the entire Bantam team, dominating the boards and sconng eighteen first half points. The Dutchmen lead by as much as twenty at one point, 42-22, but the loss of Carmody because of three personal louis allowed Trinity to pull \~ Ithin eight points by halftime. Scanlon·~ squad maintained excellent ball control throughout the ~econd half forcing Trinity to commit numerous fouls. With 3:47 remaming to play Duckett, Trinity's leading scorer and rebounder. wa~ charged w1th his fifth foul. The final le\\ mmutes of the game featured a number of technical fouls caJJed on T rinitv. !he final score was 82-64, with \Vesthrook leading the lJnion '>conng v. ith 22 markers. Herb Reichenbach. the team's strongest rebounder, scored seventeen points and playmaker Bill Carmody added thirteen to the victory. Duckett of Trinity lead all scorers with twenty five points, but onlv seven of those tallies came in the second half. The freshmen make their next appearance tonight when they face the University of Rochester in Memorial Fieldhouse. The game begins at 6:15. Cramming for finals! Feed your brain at In a warm-up for their triangular meet with track powers Springfield and Lehigh this Saturday, the Garnet cinder squad traveled to Ithaca last week to compete in the Cornell Invitational. The mile relay quartet, which garnered a fourth place in their particular section of the Millrose Games, turned in the outstanding performance of the meet. The team of AI Prysunka, Steve Wood, Tim McCabe, and Rick Jaszczak won their event in 3:26.6, far outdistancing a highly-touted squad from the host Ivy school. McCabe and Jaszczak, the \Mr. Everythings\ of the Dutchmen track team, recorded the fastest legs in the event. McCabe was clocked in 51 seconds on the eighth-of-a-mile track, while All~American Jaszczak posted a phenomenal 50.2 time. The duo also did we11 in the 600 yard run, with Jaszczak muscling himself to a 1:13.6 victory aad McCabe copping the third spot, .8 of a second behind. Jerry Cuffy and Dave Rice also djd well in the meet. Cuffy finished fourth in the 60 yard dash, while Rice recorded a career best of 4:41 in winning his section of the one mile run. CLEARANCE OFF Groups of SUITS SPORTCOATS OUTERWEAR PANTS SWEATERS SHIRTS NECKWEAR ,\i L \ . ~ \ LE'ATHERCOATS · 135 Nott Terrace Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m. -·· 11 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 1 Oa.m. - 2 a.m. Sun. 10 a.m. - 12 a.m. Wf1r ~quirr ~bnp 420 STATE ST. 377-3061 t c D tl a 1 •) ~ Cl aJ n: e( \~ :M fe u ac all fn ab to tin thi as! - - j. out Eas tea• Ch1 We1

.. . . ' ..... . Fountletl a1 · Union · Co/lese 1877 VOLUME 100~ NUMBER .27 . SC~ENECTADY~ NEW. YO:RK. FEBRUARY 9, 1971 Price Twenty Cents .Outdoor Festival Canceled; The Band, '2001' Rejected The Social Committee has scheduled Poco in concert on Saturday, February 13, at Midnight in Memorial Chapel. Tickets now on sale in the Student Activities office are moving rapidly: Seats are $3 for Union students, and $3.50 at the door, if any remain. by PETER DICKERMAN A com-bination picnic, carnival •. and concert phmned for this Spring and sponsored by the College Social Committee has app~rently been. vetoed by Prestdent Harold C. Martin. . Phil Galdston, '72, and Mark Coven, '72, interviewed by Concordiensis last Friday afternoon, detailed the long series of events which preceded the ultimate rejection of the plan. The concept of a large-scale o~t~oor c.oncert seemingly ongmated With Bob Ditter, who worked on the formulation of ·such a proposal throughout the Fall semester. Ditter, in conjunction with members of the Social Committee, envisioned the use of The Wallace Girling Center for the activities, which would have taken place on a weekend in May as the culmination of Pop Culture Week. According to the tentative outline of events the festival aspect (including ca~ival booths and food suppli~d by Saga) would have begtin at approximately 4:00 p.m. At about 8:00 p.m., Film Haps was to present a showing of the fi.lm entitled \2001: A Space Odyssey.\ The climax of the program was to be a concert given by a major group; Galdston and Coven reVealed that the Social Committee had obtained a definite commitment from The Band at (in Galdston's terms) \a good price.\ Martin on _College Function, Goal Before formally submitting this plan for administrative approval, the proponents made detailed arrangements in order to satisfy certain concerns involving proper security. A map o( the entire Girling Center area was prepared, and it showed limited access to the area due to fences and surrounding. woodlands would greatly abate security problems. In addition, the Center is not located in an area of high concentration, and potential gatecrashers would not be likely to cause property damage. Careful preparation had convinced the planners that, in Coven's words, \We felt that it In RelatiOrt to-''Sliift In_. S811Sibility\ ··· - was· a .safe area.\ In January, . the Social Committee went to the Administration in order to explain their pian and to correct possibl~ deficiencies. Galdston and Coven succeede-d in obtaining general approval for the concept of student usage from the committee in charge of administering the Girling Center. They then talked with R. Gordon Bingham, Assistant to the President, who suggested a by DAVID CONTI .. generat~ interest or interest President Harold C. Martin, in . justify the subject ~tter; what a l~tter to the faculty and staff of st~dents retain of the knowledge, Umon College, has called for an skills, and attitudes they have intense examination of the acquired; has Union produced college's functions and goals in truly \educated men\; are relation to what he cails the Union's present programs nation!s \shift in sensibility.\ \academic... practical,.. social... The letter . was issued on spiritual,\ and do the required January 4, 1971, and according curri~~la contribute to these to R. Gordon Bingham, condttions~ what would be lost if Assistant to the President, there were no required courses therewere no particular reasons other than those directly related for not making the crintents to one's field of study; can a man public at that time: - Martin now \live an intelligent life essentially is setting into motio~ 'Without knowledge of history, of re-examination that could have science, of literature and the profound effects on the type of arts;\ do the present curricula . education to be offered at Union contribute to skills necessary for in the future. \even a moderately fun adult The President notes that there life?\ seems to be a growing Mr. Bingham noted that ''revulsion>~ against the President Martin has \proposed traditional type · of education three different efforts on the offered at most colleges and that whole front of educational more attention is now being paid reform.\ First, the members of to \the affective or emotional each academi~ department will aspects of learning and living.\ s\udy what should, according to The new \sensibility Martin Martin, \be essential and continu~s~ is not a passing phase,:. valuable for the education of a and Umon sbo~d nowattempt to .student majoring in that move quickly to meet the new department.\ They · will try educational demands~ in otdet to Bingham explained, to decid~ \avoid being overwhelmed later.\ \what one shouid be' able to do\ . Seven questions are listed gy after completing one'!i major field Martin, the answers- to which he of study at Union. . feels will successfuJly guide Second, Mr. Weifenback · Union in restructuring its Director of Special Programs: academic· possibilities. Fie asks will be organizing . groups of . all involved \to shake ourselves faculty, administration, and free of habit and think clearly students to discuss the emotional- about what are the right things intellectual climate of the college to 'do and about what, in our and how the present educational time and place, are the feasible program relates to it. things to be done.\ The President Third, a group will be formed asks if subject matter should to study, in Martin's words, «the Anyone interested ·in speaking out against the policies in South East Asia is urged to attend a tea£h·m. on Laos in Me,morial Ch11p~i at 10:00 a.m., tomorrow, Wednesday, the ·tOth. 1 freshman year as an academic entity.\ One question to be raised by the committee, Bingham stated, was whether ot not a freshman should have a major. The departmental committees, Bingham said, will study · the .. educational value of everything ·offered in the particular field. The department members themselves have the power to change what the studies reveal to be lacking or undesirable. With respect to the results of the freshnum year studies, Bingham stated that since the work will go on . into next year, no changes could possibly be initiated for at least t~o years. Students,· Faculty Prefer~· Modified Language Plans by LES GOLDMAN Th: AD HOC Committee to study the Modern Language Requirement 'today released· two of its surveys used to assess student and faculty attitudes toward the requirement. At present, the requirement involves a minimum of three terms of a lanp1age for Center II majors, a minimum of four terms for Center I maJors,. and no language requirement for engineering students. The Committee was established by Martin Lichterman, Dean of the Center for Humanities and Social Sciences, to make recommendations conce~ing the language requirement to the Curricular Affairs Comnuttee. In recent weeks, the language committee has taken two polls; a faculty P?ll ~as distribu~ed at the end .of last term, and a poll ·Of students was distnbuted at Wmter Term Registration. In the faculty poll, a total of 118 questionnaires were returned. It was found t~t 39% of the faculty were in favor of abolishing the language requirement. However, 31.4% of the faculty favored retaining the requirement in some modified form. Only 19.5% of the faculty voted to retain the requirement as it now stands. Also 4.3% of the facu{ty opted to reduce the requirement but retaining it in some form. From these ~gures, !t can be seen that approximately 75% of faculty were not $1ltlsfied w1th the present language requirement, while more than. half ·Of the faculty were in favor of keeping som~ kind of requirement. · In the case of the student poll, there were 1,358 questionnaires tabulated. Of those responsed, 9!% were male and 9% were female. It was found that 55% of the 1,232 men and 123 women who answered the . questionnaire, favored abolition of the language requirement. Wh1~e 24.7% of the students favored keeping the requirement in a modified form, 11.4% wanted the requirement retained as it now stands. Only 7.6% of the students felt that it should be retained but reduced. 1 he studynts were also asked the question, ''Did you go abroad or do you plan to go abroad during your college career?\ Some 3 t .9% of the stud~nts answered \yes 22.3% said they were uncertain, and 44.9% sa!d no. , .. The interpretation of these results by the. Committee, as well as its fmal. report wi.ll be brought up at the next meeting of the Curricular Affa1rs Comtnltfee on February lO. There, it will either be rejected, or accepted and subsequently passed on to the Divisions for discussion. number of potential difficulties but was supposedly encouraging in tone. Bingham assured them that they could meet with President Martin. Galdston and Coven spoke next with Dean Malloy, who expressed some apprehension concerning the s1ze and composition of the crowd at the proposed event. After further conversations with Mal1oy and College Security Director John Kleinkauf, mutual agreement was reached concerning audience restrictions and security forces at the scene. At this point, Galdston and Coven believed that they had secured Malloy's approval. It was also at this point however, that President Martin expressed vehement disapproval; Galston emphas!zed that this occurred before Martin received any details of the proposal. At Bingham's . urging, Galdston and Coven submitted a formal written proposal, which wa~ brought up for discussion at an administrative staff meeting. When this took place, according to a Galdston source, the staff \laughed at\ the plan. Later the same day, Galdston and Coven had finally scheduled a meeting with the President, but he was apparently not inclined to discuss the specifics of the proposal. In claiming that this was a matter to be decided upon by Dean Malloy, Martin was quoted by Coven as having said: \I am sorry, Mark, but I just cannot discuss this with you.'' When Galdston asked if Dean Malloy's approval, should it he obtained, would be binding, ~ President Martin supposedly stated the following: \If Dean Malloy wants to put his h~ad on the chopping block, that's his business.\ Shortly thereafter, Dean Malloy officially disapproved of the plan, and listed the following objectionable aspects: 1) Public relations with the community. 2) Physical set-up involved. 3) Inadequate control situation. 4) The problems of security in a large crowd. 5) Possible physical damage to the Girling Center. These objections were received by Galdston and Coven on Friday, January 29. They are pa~icu~arly upset because, in their v1ew, almost all of these problems had been ironed out . As Coven stated, ••a good deal of time and effort\ was expended in order .to make this a viable plan, yet 1t was vetoed . without substantial discussion . Galdston described the affair as an ''example of an administrative fiasco, but apparently an intentional one.\ In his view, it serves as a reflection of the prevailing \lack of trust on the Administration's part\ toward student organizations. Galdston and Coven implied that there was little else that they could do at the present time. Their hope is th.at an informed student body Will pressure the Administration for a full hearing on the entire matter.

• r <• Founded at Union College 1877 VOLUM-E 100, NUMBER 27 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. FEBRUARY 9, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Outdoor Festival Canceled; The Band, '2001' Rejected The Social Committee has scheduled Poco in concert on Saturday, February 13, at Midnight in Memorial Chapel. Tickets now on sale in the Student Activities office are moving rapidly. Seats are $3 for Union students, and $3.50 at the door, if any remain. by PETER DICKERMAN A. combination picnic, carmval, and concert planned for this Spring and sponsored by the CoUege Social Committee aas apparently been vetoed by President Harold C. Martin. Phil Galdston, 72, and Mark Coven, '72, interviewed by Concordiensis last Friday afternoon, detailed the long series of events which preceded the ultimate rejection of the plan. The concept of a large-scale o~~t~oor c.oncert seemingly ongmated With Bob Ditter, who worked on the formulation of such a proposal throughout the Fall semester. Ditter, in conjunction with members of the Social Committee, envisioned the use of The Wallace Girling Center for the activities, which would have taken place on a weekend in May as the culmination of Pop Culture Week. According to the tentative outline of events, the festival aspect (including carnival booths and food supplied by Saga) would have begun at approximately 4:00 p.m. At about 8:00 p.m., Film Haps was to present a showing of the film entitled \2001: A Space Odyssey.\ The climax of the program was to be a concert given by a major group; Galdston and Coven revealed that the Social Committee had obtained a definite commitment from The Band at (in Galdston's terms) \a good price.\ Martin on College Function, Goal Before formally submitting this plan for administrative approval, the proponents made detailed arrangements in order to satisfy certain concerns involving proper security. A map of the entire Girling Center area was prepared, and it showed limited access to the area due to fences and surrounding woodlands would greatly abate security problems. In addition, the Center is not located in an area of high concentration, and potential gatecrashers would not be likely to cause property damage. Careful preparation had convinced the planners that, in Coven's words, \'We felt that it was a safe area.\ In Relation to \Shift in Sensibility\ In January, the Social Committee went to the Administration in order to explain their plan and to correct possible deficiencies. Galdston and Coven succeede-d in obtaining general approval for the concept of student usage from the committee in charge of administering the Girling Center. They then talked with R. Gordon Bingham, Assistant to the President, who suggested a by DAVID CONTI generate interest or interest President Harold C. Martin, in justify the subject matter; what a l~tter to the faculty and staff of st~dents retain of the knowledge, Umon College, has called for an skills, and attitudes they have intense examination of the acquired; has Union produced college's functions and goals in truly .. educated men\; are relation to what he calls the Union's present programs nation's \shift in sensibility.\ \academic... practical... social... The letter was issued on spiritual,\ and do the required January 4, 1971, and according curricula contribute to these to R. Gordon Bingham, conditions; what would be lost if Assistant to the President, there were no required courses therewere no particular reasons other than those directly related for not making the contents to one's field of study; can a man public at that time. Martin now \live an intelligent life essentially is setting into motio~ without knowledge of history, of re-examination that could have science, of literature and the profound effects on the type of arts;\ do the present curricula education to be offered at Union contribute to skills necessary for in the future. \even a moderately full adult The President notes that there life?\ seems to be a growing Mr. Bingham noted that \revulsion\ against the President Martin has .. proposed traditional type of education three different efforts on the offered at most colleges and that whole front of educational more attention is now being paid reform.\ First, the members of to \the affective or emotional \ach academic department will aspects of learning and living.\ study what should, according to The new \sensibility Martin Martin, \be essential and continues, is not a passing phase,'· valuable for the education of a and Union should now attempt to student majoring in that move quickly to meet the new department.\ They will try, educational demands in order to Bingham explained, to decide \avoid being overwhelmed later.\ \what one should be able to do\ Seven questions are listed by after completing one's major field Martin, the answers to which he of study at Union. feels will successfully guide Second, Mr. W eifenback Union in restructuring its D.irector of Special Programs: academic possibilities. He asks WIU be organizing groups of all involved \to shake ourselves faculty, administration, and free of habit and think clearly students to discuss the emotional- about what are the right things intellectual climate of the college to ·do and about what, in our and how the present educational time and place, are the feasible program relates to it. things to be done.\ The President Third, a group will be formed asks if subject matter should to study, in Martin's words, \the Anyone interested in speaking out against the policies in South East Asia is urged to attend a teach-in on Laos in Memorial Chapel at 10:00 a.m., tomorrow, Wednesday, the lOth. freshman year as an academic entity.\ One question to be raised by the committee, Bingham stated, was whether or not a freshman should have a major. The departmental committees, Bingham said, will study the educational value of everything offered in the particular field. The department members themselves have the power to change what the studies reveal to be lacking or undesirable. With respect to the results of the freshman year studies, Bingham stat~d that since the work will go on mto next year, no changes could possibly be initiated for at least two years. Students, Faculty Prefer . Modified Language Plans by LES GOLDMAN Th~ AD HOC Committee to study the Modern Language Reqmrement today released· two of its surveys used to assess student and faculty attitudes toward the requirement. At present, the requirement involves a minimum of three terms of a lan~uage for Center II majors, a minimum of four terms for Center I majors, and n? language requirement for engineering students. The Comtmttee was established by Martin Lichterman Dean of the Center ~or Humanities and Social Sciences, to make rec;mmendations conce~mg the language requirement to the Curricular Affairs Committee. In recent weeks, the language committee has taken two polls; a faculty P?ll ~as distributed at the end of last term, and a poll of students was distnbuted at Winter Term Registration. In the faculty poll, a total of 118 questionnaires were returned. It was found t~t 39% of the faculty were in favor of abolishing the language. reqmrell,lent. However, 31.4% of the faculty favored retaining the reqmrem~nt m som~ modified form. Only 19.5% of the faculty voted to retam the reqUirement as it now stands. Also 4.3% of the faculty opted to reduce the requirement but retaining it in some form. From these ~gures, !t can be seen that approximately 75% of faculty were not satisfied wtth the present language requirement, while more than. half of the faculty were in favor of keeping so'me kind of reqUirement. In the case of the student poll, there were I ,358 questionnaires tabulated. Of those responsed, 91% were male and 9% were female. It was found that 55% of the 1.232 men and 123 women who answered the . questionnaire, favored abolition of the language requirement. Wht~e 24.7% of the students favored keeping the requirement in a modified form, 11.4% wanted the requirement retained as it now stands. Only 7.6% of the students felt that it should be retained but reduced. I he students were also asked the question, \Did you go abroad or do you plan to go abroad during your college career?\ Some 31.9Cf[ of the students answered \yes 22.3% said they were uncertain and 44.9% said no. ' . The interpretation of these results by the Committee, as well as its fmal. report wi_ll be brought up at the next meeting of the Curricular Affairs Com111.1ttee on February 10. There. it will either be rejected, or accepted and subsequently passed on to the Divisions for discussion. number of potential difficulties but was supposedly encouraging in tone. Bingham assured them that they could meet with President Martin. Galdston and Coven spoke next with Dean Malloy, who expressed some apprehension concerning the size and composition of the crowd at the proposed event. After further conversations with Malloy and College Security Director John Kleinkauf, mutual agreement was reached concerning audience restrictions and security forces at the scene. At this point, Galdston and Coven believed that they had secured Malloy's approval. It was also at this point however, that President Martin expressed vehement disapproval; Galston emphas:zed that this occurred before Martin received any details of the proposal. At Bingham's urging, Galdston and Coven submitted a formal written proposal, which wa~ brought up for discussion at an administrative staff meeting. When this took place, according to a Galdston source, the staff \laughed at\ the plan. Later the same day, Galdston and Coven had finally scheduled a meeting with the President, but he was apparently not inclined to discuss the specifics of the proposal. In claiming that this was a matter to be decided upon by Dean Malloy, Martin was quoted by Coven as having said: \I am sorry, Mark, but I just cannot discuss this with you.\ When Galdston asked if Dean Malloy's approval, should it be obta~ned, would be binding, President Martin supposedly stated the following: \If Dean Malloy wants to put his head on the chopping block, that's his business.\ Shortly thereafter, Dean Malloy officially disapproved of the plan, and listed the following objectionable aspects: 1) Public relations with the community. 2) Physical set-up involved. 3) Inadequate control situation. 4) The problems of security in a large crowd. 5) Possible physical damage to the Girting Center. These objections were received by Galdston and Coven on Friday, January 29. They are particularly upset because, in their view, almost all of these problems had been ironed out. As Coven stated, \a good deal of time and effort\ was expended in order to make this a viable plan, yet it was vetoed without substantial discussion. Galdston described the affair as an \example of an administrative fiasco, but apparently an intentional one.\ In his view, it serves as a reflection of the prevailing \lack of trust on the Administration's part\ toward student organizations. Galdston and Coven implied that there was little else that thev could do at the present time. ·Their hope is that an informed student hodv will pressure the Administratio~ for a full hearing on the entire matter.

i j PAGE 2 CONCORDIE.NSIS, FEB. 9, 1971 ~i.rJ'\' \\\~' !4 '-\..:;V~l: ,_,.,. Cllnnrnr ~\~& birnBt!i ~~~!'-- Editor-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold Managing Editor James E. Stewar.t Business Manager Lloyd Birns Editors Emeriti William Ouzcr He~ry 0. Fein News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. News Editor Peter Bickerman Asst. Business Managers Joseph Achenbauin Doug Binder Contributing Editor Richard L Kramer National Adv. M:gr. Photography Editor Features Editor Daniel Schochet Mark Shulman Jody Saslow Layout Editor Doug Won~ Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Asst. Sports. Editor Mark Shugoll Dave Conrey STAFF: PattV Sipe, Les Goldman, Jay Hobart, Marc Lust, Harris Samuel~. Judy Steinbach, Tom Conley, David Conti,, Greg Hamlin, Michael Hollander, 1 George Kaplan, Robert A. Levme, Mtke Meserole, Thomas Morante, Ruth, Morton, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell, Len Solomon, George Bain, Mart;y Berman, Reid Russel, <JaiJ.Goodman, Mark Zubres and Michael Rosenberg. Published. TUC>days and j.;ridvys during ihe school year by the student !lody ol Union Colle!!<, Schenectady, N.Y .• !llational Advcrtisi!ig Representative, National Eduauional fldvenising Ser:via:. Inc., Go!lcgc Publishers Representative,\ 360 l-exington 1\v.: .• N.Y:C. Editorial office, Old (iym, Union College, Publicatio.n ()If~«:. Tho: World Publication,._ 771 State Street .• Scheoo:tady, N.Y. 12307. 346- 2356. l:ntered in the Schenectady post office as Second Clas.• Mail Mauer. Suhscriptu>n 20cen~' a copy .. $6 a year delivered anY'I/herC'in tbc Unit~ State;;. Please Pass The Buck The credibility gap syndrome is a phenomenon with which we have become all too familiar in recent years. Credibility gap is a term meaning that there exists a serious descrepancy between word and deed, between official pronouncements and execution of policy. One who accuses an Administration (whether national or collegiate) of low credibiUty is in effect charging authority figures with lying. Therefore, it can be seen that this is not an accusation to be based on trivial or isolated instances, but rather should reflect a series of grievances. It is our belief that the .Administration of Union College, originating at the highest levels, is gpilty of such a pattern of .untruthfulness in its treatment of-student affairs. . · . · · · The latest and one of the most glaring examples of Administration discredibility involves the arbitrary veto of a ·carefully formulated plan for an outdoor ~oncert to be held in the Spring. One can make educated guesses conCerning the exact reasons for the refusal; the prospect of adverse local publicity was probably a prime factor. President Martin might be able to explain his action in reasonable terms; the crime of the matter is that he has not seen fit to issue an open explanation to the student body, or even to ~dmit that he opposed any such plan without knowing of its details. There seems to be a pervasive patronizing attitude on the Administration's part toward student activities in general, an underlying belief that they know what is best for us. Phil Galdston, who was an active proponent of the concert plan, perceptively stated that the affair is indicative of a general \lack of trust\ in student-led activities. It should be clear to everyone by now that the in loco parentis concept is dead, and further that students are not only a legitimate power bloc but also should be the prime authors of non-academic decisions. Basic honesty demands nothing less. Dear Dr. Martin: Last week Mark Coven, Phil Galdston and I :presented ourselves to your office for what we thought was to be a discussion of a proposal. the social committee had made in regards to a concert at the Wallace Girling Center. We were, if you recall, rather abruptly told that your office was not the place for such a discussion and that Dean Malloy had full authority to make a decision on the proposal. My comments here are not intended to deal with the proposal, but rather in the manner in which the affair was handled. When we first presented the proposal to Dean Malloy, he was only apprehensive about certain security problems. After subsequent meetings with Mr. John Kleinkauf, director o£ campus security, the Dean seemed to be in favor of the planned events. That was until he presented the proposal to a meeting at which you and other administrators were present. Soon thereafter we as members of the social committee were presented with a list of .. concerns\ which Dean Malloy · said that you had expressed. We were told at the time the list was presented that you were amenable to discussing the \concerns\ and we were led to believe that difficulties could be worked out: Soo!} thereafter Deart Malloy informed the social committee that the proposal was entirely out of the question. Now I· have absolutely no quarrel with either the list of objections to the proposal or the right that you as president of the college have. to make such concerns known. I am quite dismayed, however, that once the . objections were handed down from your office - objections which cast the deCiding vote . against the proposal representatives of the social committee were refused an . An lnvitati.o·n For Re,co:n.si:d .. eration.- As Martin Destroys Concert Hopes. . . .. by RAY KRISE JR. As you. have already been informed several times in this issue, the Union College Social Committee has been trying to set up a mini music festival for the kids of Union and Skidmore. It was to have been an outdoor affair at the Girling Center (that thing on the road that winds down the hill to Route 50 on the Northway), featuring a showing of the movie, \2001: A Space Odyessy,\ and a performance by The Band, of \:tVIusic from Big Pink'' fame. This was all .to have taken place this Spring. As you must also have read by now, President Martin, in another one of his insightful moves, has blocked the Social Committee's plans for the event. The reasons he gives are that many mor:e people .than are expected - or wanted -. could show up and cause trungs to happen which w~mld precipitate unfortunate publicity (don't forget, there's a Capital Fund drive on), and - sort of as an offshoot to his first concern ~ if great masses of people crash the gates, the Social Committee might lose money. Let's pull a Richard Nixon and discuss the last reas~m first. The Social Committee needs around $20,000 to have the outdoor concert, and it figures on an audience of 4,000, fOtlghly the combined totals of the student populations of Union and Skidmore. Since, to a·void the President's first worry, tlte Social Committee is trying to attract as little publicity as possible, the tickets would be sold only on campus, ·in advance of the concert. The money, at $5 a ticket, would already be in hand. Now f!ln to the mote serious issue. Dr.. MartiD: has, apparently, heard all about the horror story of the Rolling Stones' concert in Altamont, whet:e the Hells; Angels killed one guy and beat up on a whole . bunch of other people. A very bad· scene, and certainly enough to give · one pause to t.l;lin.k:, especially if one is a college president, a job reqqiring the care and tact of a li).aiire d'. But one should remember that 1) Hells' Angels can hardly be described as typical Schenectady gate,..crashers (this is aU assuming that the teeny-bops get word of the concert somehow); (2} the Angels had been invited by. the promote!'$ to act as crowd.,. control agents ~~they did not come in t;he crowd itself, they were a bungle by the o.rganizers; (3). there have been concerts in Toronto, the Isle of Wight, Woodstock, and Atlanta ail with attendences in the several hundred thousands and the only thing bad that happened was that people in the autside world thought it was a scandal that the kids were having so much fun; (4) thirty thousand people showed up for a festival at Powder Rid·ge which was eventually cancelled, and nobody blew the place up or burned it do'Yn - they just camped out-, talked, and went home. What I'm trying to say is that the odds of anything worse than · a whole lot of extra. people who are too stoned to even be able to move showing up at the cQncert 11;re about as good as the odds on somebody blowi,ng up ~he library ~ both incidents could. happen, but at Union they're unlikely. Of course, Perhaps the :President's real concern is the possibility of drug use, alluded to in the preceeding sentence. Well, it's too late to stop now .. The volume of smoke in the. field house during ·the Jethro Tun concert was enough to make a respectable cumqlou!\1 cloud. lt's funny, tho~.~;~W ~ the crowds at Union seem more peaceful since theY've !\!Witched fr()tn be.~r to· pot, Obviously, the,te is no legil;iffiate reason to block the~ · concert. \Leaving the purely social &spects aside, such art activity would be good for the school in that it would help to foster a greater sense of community, of being in .something togeth~.r (and, wow, is U Col ~vet lackjng this!). Ya get ~o know an awful: lot. about people ·at concerts, and generally it's pretty gro.ovy stuff, because people themselves . are pretty groovy. As he iS' a ~cbQlar, I know Dr, Martin is aware C>f the dangers of venturing ·an opinion in a field Where one has no experience. I hope he .gets to go to a feativa.l soon. At the Girling Center would be tettibly convenient. HOROSCOPE ED. note: Institutions, like people, have an · astrologically predictable future. Kevin Lloyd Hunt, world famous astrologist. and custodial engineer, has been given the exact date a)ld place of Union's inception, and has constructed the college's astrological chart, which is available from Concordiensis tor $.25: The following predictions are for the week of Feb. 11-18. Feb. 12 - Mark Coven and Phil Galdston present a plan to bring The Rolling Stones, The Who, James Taylor, John Lennon, Joni . Mitchell, Steve Stills, Pearls Before Swine, and Bob Dylan to Union for a week of in11sic. Pres. Martin cancels concerts- because \the alumni doesn't like that kind of music anyway.'' Coven and Galdston audience to discuss the problems. Let me say in no .uncertain terms that I resent not the objections, but that such objections were made without provision for them to be worked out. Since it was not Dean· Malloy who' made the list, it is not Dean Malloy with · whom we wish to discuss the matter. My perception of the mannet in which the situation was handled is that someone is pulling the strings of the decision making process while absolving himself of the responsibility of discussing the question at hand. Sin!!ei'ely yours, Bob Ditter '72 Sodal Committ«~e The Convocation in Memorial Chapel. tonight, featuring Jonathan Kozol, teachei' and author. has been moved back fro~ S:OO p.m. to 8:30. Kozol wiH speak on \Political Indoctrination in Tile Public Schools.\ plan to cancel Pres. Martin. Feb. 13 - Dean Malloy makes . up his mind. . Feb. 16 - - To show even greater discipline, Coach Walters has basketball team goosestep onto Williams' court. To placate radical students, the team raises arms in power to the people sign, but forgets to clench fists. At the · end of the game, a Jewish fan is taken into the shower room. In a seemingly unconnected ·move, Coach Walters has approached the maintainence dept. for a bulldozer. Feb. 18 Student-faculty meeting draws entire faculty and 1100 students to Memorial Chapel to dis.russ new contracts for junior faculty. Student- faculty alliance to confront administration almost certain until Dennis Peskin recites possible consequences of any action. At the end of the speech, only 5 students are present, and Peskin is the sole remaining faculty member. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. fOUNTAIN SU.IiiC£ One block from Brownell - Gat• DIAMANTE'S f Friday, F'eb; 19 BYRDS CACTUS RED!YE . Wednesday~ Merch .31 SMALL FACES With Rlld Stewtrt Kennr Jones, Ronnie Lan~t Jan McLacen \ Ron Wood THE GREASE'..iAND (formerlY with Joe Coclctr} Special Guest Artists: SAVOY BAOWN featurlnl Kim Slmmonfs comifli• 1 0' Yrs. After, Elton Jahli, llot:runar Willie Dixon, and many, many atherc . PUbllcllyt New Concept Assac•s, Inc. Production & Sound: · ftit'l Student 'Productions, InC: N.Y.C. &: Campbell, Calif, firo&rammlnr: . Ashwood House, Ltd. Enjoy Our Fine Home Coohed Italian food in Out C6mfortoble Dining. ltoom Except where JndtQ•ted· 2 sltows. ntahtlr at 7t30 1o 11;30 p,M., teadnt br seotion/Tic~et Info: (518) 434-33415 ~ ~uslneu illlice: .(S11) 434·2179- N.Y.C. (212) J.U2·0908. \Be iure ta 11t stub ~lid .hand stamped IIPtin enterinr lhow.\ M.all Orders:. Check or money.order • payable to \Nil'l Student Pradilcl!oqs, Inc.\ Box 112, Alb., N.Y. 12201, Enclose !elf·ad· dressed slimped envelope. & specify date & Opp .. The lr~w.-aell Gcrte on ~ott ·s, ..... Open Daily 10 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. to 1 A;N.. • time. Orders received l' wk. befole show will be hel!l at boK office until shoW time. !!ox office operis ·•t 2 I'.M. de)' of $how. Remain· in& tickets ·vall~bli ,one week pri~¥ (thropgh day prec•o .r $hOW)• .Aibali~: MAilOU, 2311 Washll!llon Ave. 43H290; Schentctl~r: THE OTHE~ SIDE OF TODAY, 135 Ja)' Sl. 346·9108; MDI!IWII Mall~ CRYSTAL MANSION & DROME SOUND; JrOJI •THE. MUSIC SHACK, 97 Con· tress st. 273·1400. ', ., 't .. ' ~· ·!I .. .. tr Si tr c Ct Sf Sl m tb yc M tri at be till of tir Al fu: pr St lUJ ch At thl ex prt Ga Spl 19~ fol ste un; the As COl ma pul Ru An goi an< job op~ shr unc acr, ~ \Li abc Lirl Sco sha wai his six .Me: two pro pho spat \ mis: proJ Mo• Cha --flasl ship maj. T meti Moe Wal Oen Apo it 01 And eartl first A doc eart mo~

ll• (f. ... . •, ., 't ~ .' <l . , ·II • The U.S. And The Moon Our Program. ·up To Par l)y MIKE MESEROL~ \I'm going to try a little saQ.d tl!lp shot here,\ announced Alan Shepard' on: the first crater of the treacherous Fra Mauro Valley Country Club. Aj;Jdressing his custom-made six iton to a specially treated golf ball, Shepard swung mightily but missed. \Got a little more dirt than ball ort that. one,. didn't you,'' chuckled caddie ·Edgar Mitohell. Undaunted, Shepard tried again and crushed his shot about 800 yards. For the third time since man began reaching for the stats, t\Vo tnen have landed on the s1:1rl'ace of the Moon. And for the third time, the two men have been Americans. (Before going any further, r plead guilty to national pride in the first degree.) Captain Shepard's opening of the first lunar driving range is another chapter in · a succession of American manned space mission$ that have seen U.S. Astronauts exhibit their very, special kind of professic;~nal cool on the job. Ever since Russia's Yuri Gagarin kicked off the manned space shot sweepstak~§ in . early 1961, the Americans ·who followed his tra,il proceeded to steal his thunder and pressed on ttntil they reached the Moon by the end of the decade. The U.S. Astronauts seemed braver, more confident, and· more. successful mainly because they had better public relations than their Russian counterpa·rts.- The Americans said what they- were going to do on eyery .space shot. and they damn near did. a perfect job every time. The Russian. operations have always been shrouded in secrecy and uncertainty and have come across as imp~es.~ve _but lifeless. Meanwhile, Gus Grissom lost \Liberty Bell 7\ and laughed about it, John Glenn outdrew Litidbergh on Broadway, and Scott Carpenter was fighting off sharks jn the cold 'Atlantic waiting for rescue ships to tind his off course landing site. After six trips, the one-ma·nned Mercury series gave way to the two man Gemini flights; with prolonged voyages, great photography, and some thrilling spacewalks. When Gemini ran out of miSSions, the new Apollo program was ready to go to the Moon. Then Grissom, White and Chaffee were killed in a pre-flight \flash fire aboard their command ship, and America had her first major disaster. of the space race. The Apollo spacecraft was meticulously overhauled, and the Moon was still waiting when Wally Schirra, a Mercury and Gemini veteran, skippered Apollo 7 around the earth to try it out. Then Borman, Lovell and Anders piloted Apollo 8 out of earth orbit and took off on man's first venture to the Moon. · After Apollo 9 checked .out docking. techniques above the earth, · Appolo 10, perhaps the most entertaining space show in the series, returned to the Moon with · Stafford, Ceman, and Young, and gave the lunar landing module it's maiden practice rpn before Apollo ll's history making 'Moon landing in July of 1969 .. Neil Armstrong's first steps on the Moon were carried live on TV around the world, as history saw President Ken11ed)r's dream fulfilled. The highly suceessful Conrad- Bean Comedy Hour followed with Apollo 12's lunar expedition a few months later, .but catastrophe reared its heart- attacking head once again on Apollo 13's · odyssey. While a world ,that had grown used to Moon shots sat glued to the television, Astronauts Lovell, Haise, and last minute r'eplacement Swigert overcame an Ol).board explosion, keeping themselves and their ship alive, and limped back home to safety. Months passed before Apollo 14 finally got the go ahead, with Alan Shepard at the helm. Ten years ago this May, Shepard rode \Fi:eedom 7\ America's first manned capsule into space. The Russians have marke<l. the anniversary by blasti~g the U.S. for needlessly landing men on the Moon when machines, such as they have sent, can do the job just as well. You can just taste the sour grapes. However, the Russians have a point that many U.S. space people acknowledge; that mechanical gaagets can do a pretty fair job in interplanetary exploration, not as good as man himself, but with no danger to human life and a price tag that is much - easier on the national budget. Money; the space program needs irtore of it to move forward after Apollo brings back its last load from the Moon, but the country cannot afford to· ffuance an · all:·out effort such as we saw in the 1960's. Consequently, NASA has to lay off more and more people every month and thousands of the men and women who helped get us to the Moon have been rewarde!l with unemployment. The space agency isn't the only victim .of the times, of course, there are more pressing earthbound problems that need increased attention am:l larger e~pense accounts, but the space effort doesn't have to be mothballed to fund these projects. It's interesting to note that Sunday night, as Apollo 14 sped ba<:;k to earth, South Vietnam's President Thieu announced that his country had invaded Laos with the fullfledged support of United S.tates bombers. We're celebrating a tenth anniversary over there this· year, too, and C01]1paring the two decade long projects,, it would only make sense that if you're going to drastically cut funds for a· program, you . scrap- the program that doesn't Work. The space program has gotten us to the Moon and given the country a true sense of pride and accomplishment. The Vietnam War has gotten us to Cambodia, Laos, and who knoW!! where else an given the country a frustrating sense' of futility and embarrassment. Yet our manned ex;ploration program appears to be coming to an end and the war continues. Shucks! And I was hoping that we could see Chris Schenkel and Byron Nelson on the TV. rooting home Arnold Palmer in the final round of the l980 Solar System Open at Fra Mauro Valley. ~~ 50%. OFF TRICITIES ONLY lJNIQUE BOUTIQUEJ AND YOU DON'T PAY HIGH MALL PRICES ~bapter 1Jll 10 to, 6 p.m., Wed,, Thurs. & Fri. '1'iJ1 !J p.m . t;b:ap~cr ·Seven at Plaza Seven Shopping Center to Jamaica Inn, Rtc. 7, Troy•Sch'dy R~ad Latham, N. Y._ 785·a444 :MAMA .BIANCHI.'$ RESTAURANT 1135 B.arrett St .. Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.Mi FRI. alld SAT, CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 9, 1971 PAGE 3 Seniors interested in or-dering graduation announcements may do so now, in the Student Activities Office. The Deadline for orders is March 5. * * * * Anyone interested in becoming a member of the National Ski Patrol, may come to the meeting on Thursday, February 11 .at 7:00 p.m. in the Richmond Lounge. For more information, see Ginny Bade; fourth floor Richmond. · * * * * The Wind Ensemble Rehearsal this. week will be called off. Instead, the Brass Choir will rehearse at 4:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, * * * * The January 28 lRC talk \China Policy Reconsidered\ by Professor James C. Thomson of Harvard will be broadcast this Friday February 12, at 1:00 and 7:00p.m. on W AMC .(90.3 FM). Thomson is generally considered the leading expert on Sino-American relations, and his talk was considered by many to be the best IRC presentation in several years. * * * * There are still openings on the Union - Skidmore Ski Trip to Stowe, February 19-21. A twelve dollar ($12) deposit will reserve you a room for two nights at one of the best winter resorts in the East. Call Randy Sutter at 377- 13-5 for further information. * * * * There will be a very important meeting of the Mountebanks this Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in Nott Memorial Theater. * * * * The art department needs a thin male or female model. $2.00 ·per hour. Contact Lynette House 374-4012. * * * * Some tickets remain for the road company production of Hadrian the XII sponsored by the American Theater League and coming to the Proctors Theater at 8:30 p.m. tommotrow (Wednesday, February 10) for one night only. The A.T.L. brings a series of Broadway road shows to the Proctor's each year, and while most of them are frivolous musicals, they ordinarily attempt to include one serious play. This year Hadrian is it. * * • * WRUC wiD broadcast live from D' Andreas this Thursday evening from 8 to 12 p.m. AJI students are cordially invited by Uncle Bob and the Kids. What you should know about diamonds when you. know it's for keeps .. You've dreamed about your diamond engagement ring a thou- ~and times. But now that you know it's for keeps, it's time to stop dreaming and start learning about diamonds and their value. Because no two diamonds are exactly alike, jewelers have adopted exacting standards to de- termine the relative value of each and every diamond in the world. These standards include a dia- mond's size (carat weight), color, cut and clarity. COLOR: Fine white diamonds are quite rare and valued accordingly. Other shades in relative order of their worth are: blue, yellow, brown and black. CUT: The cut of a diamond~the facets placed on it by a trained cutter-brings out the gem's fire and brilliance. Anything less than correct cut reduces beauty, bril- liance and value. CLARITY: Determined by the .ab- sence of small impurities. A per· feet diamond has no impurities when examined under ten power magnification by a trained eye. CARAT: A diamond's size· is measured in carats. As a diamond increases in size, its price will increase even more if the quality remains constant. But larger dia- monds of inferior quality may ac- tually be worth less than smaller, perfect diamonds. Although it's important to know the facts about diamonds, you certainly don't have to be an expert to choose a Keepsake Dia- mond Ring ... because Keepsake guarantees a diamond of fine white color, correct cut and perfect clar- ity or replacement assured. The fa. mous Keepsake certificate provides permanent registration, trade-in value and protection against loss of diamonds from the setting. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a complete selection of new styles. He's in the Yellow Pages under \Jewelers.\ Or, dial free day or night long distance 800-243-6000. In· Connecticut, call 800-942-0655. ~:1;2sa.ke® REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS ® Nom•----------------------- Add'\\'-~-~------------------ c;ty•-------~-~---~-Co. ________ _ Stot••-----------~----l'P·-------:- Rings from $100 to $10,000 lrade Mark Reg. A. H. Pond Co,

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 9, 1971 'Concordy Sports- Frosh Hoopsters Hand Rochester 7,8-75 Loss Cagers Up Streak To Fi.ue by MARK MINDEL 118-pound-frosh grappler Al Calabro has .stepped onto the mat nine times this season. He won his .first match against Hartford by a 13-5 decision. Since then, excluding a win by forfeit at Dartmouth, he has pinned his man every time. Saturday, he recorded his sevent~ pin in a row,. a Union Cnllege record, at 2:40 to remain unbeaten and start the Gamet on their .way to an easy 33-13 shelling of Williams. Benedict; (150), and heavyweight Howie :Ben¢dict all had forfeits, Zullo and Benedict keeping pace witl:t <;alabro, record-wise, at 9~. Pat Wardell pinned his .fifth m~n of the year at 2:34, lifting his record to 6-3, while Capt1:1in Gary Morris won· a close 3-2 decision and now stands 7-2 on by MARTY BERMAN The Union frosh basketball squad got by their stiffest challenge of the season Saturday night, handing Rochester a 78-75 defeat ar the Fieldhouse. For the Gamet, it was like playing in the land of the giants, as the Yellow Jackets boasted a pronounced height advantage. Nonetheless, the Gamet played tough defense and disciplined offense to leave the court at halftime with a slim 3 7-36 margin, paced by Stan O'Brien's 10 markers. In the second half the game continued in seesaw fashion. In foul-marred play three Rochester men left the game. But Union was unable to capitalize at the charity line as free throws were repeatedly missed. At the other end of the court, the Yellow Jackets tickled the twines with ail impressive 85% from the line to take the lead. Late in the game the Gamet press began to tell and fast breaks and turnovers started to go Union's way. With 3:35 left on the clo~k O'Brien knotted the score by hitting one of two free throws. Half a minute later Herb Reichenbach put Union into the..., Ie3;dwith two more charity tosses. Reichenbach's feat was immediately followed by a Bill Carmody fast-break layup to put the Dutchmen . up 72-68. Rochester battled l;>ack and closed the gap to one point twice in the last 15 seconds only to see O'Brien and AI Westbrook pad the margin with foul shots. Tomotrow night at 6:15 p.m. in the Fieldhouse the frosh will attempt to avenge. their only loss of the season when they take on the RPI yearlings. The 46 points scored by both teams was the most ever to be s~red in a Union College match. The Gamet are now 7-0 in dual meets. Mark Zullo (126), Bill the year. -· Grapplers Crush Ephmen \With Calabro and Zullo)'' said Gamet coach Gerry Everlirig- recently, \it's like starting with an eight or ten point spot.\ In fa¢t, in every dual meet so f:'!.r, Union has started off with at least an eight point. advantage, ·as Zullo recorded. a ·pin the only time by MARK SHUGOLL The streaking Union College basketbi,i.ll team ran away to two more impressive victories this weekend, convincingly thrashing the University of Rochester, 84-71, and Pace College, 80~65, in games played at Memorial Field House. Two more big crowds flocked to the Dutchmen's hQme court to witness the Gamet become the winningest hoop squad at Union in 45 years. The Dutchmen now boast a 15-2 record, the best at the school since 1925·1926 when the Garnet five finished at 17-4, the most wips ever at union. The Gamet received strong efforts from Jim Tedisco, Mike Doyle, and Geoff Walker to polish off a supposedly tough Rochester quintet on Friday evening, in one of Union's most satisfying wins in recent years. Tedisco finished with 30 points, while Doyle tallied 28 markers and Walker played his usual strong defensive game. Union jumped off to an early 12 point lead btxt saw the visitors cut into the margin and trail by only 41·38 at the half. Tedisco tallied 19, of his total in the first session. The Garnet fought off constant,bids by Rochester early in the second half and showed a 53-48 advantage with 13:07 remaining in the game. Union then shocked the highly touted Yellowjackets with a 22-12 burst and ran away to a 75-60 lead with a little over seven minutes to ulay before the screaming capacity ctowd. Rochester.bolted' back to within eight points with ju&t under three minutes to go, but the Dutchmen converted five straight free throws when the Jackets were forced to foul to get the ball. Union played a tight defense that contained two of Rochester's top three scorers. Eric Pass connected for 24 points, but Jackson Collins, a 6~5 forward, was held to a mere nine by the smaller Union five- nearly eight points below his average. Joe Winters had ten points, five below his season mark. Saturday night Union won their fifth in a row at the expense of Pace in what must be classified as a lackluster ball game. Again the Garnet ran it up early, and raced to a 41-28 halftime lead. The Setters could come only as close as seven points in the second half in a game in which the Dutchmen never traUed. · Ca.labro'did riot. Calabro, besides holding the consecutive pin record, is onl~ two pins- away- froiJl the most pins in a season, and one away from the most dual meet pins. Tomorrow, the Garnet will need all the points they can muster, as the squad faces its_ toughest ~;hallenge of the year from ·colgate, who . beat Union last year, 23~10. This year Colgate has shut-out. R.PJ. 44-0 (Union beat the Engineers 24-16) and beaten tough Clarkson and Columbia. Again it was Tedisco, Doyle, an<;l Walker who led Varsity Baseball battery the ·Gamet. Tedisco popped for 23 and added 11 candidates should report to Mr. assists, many of them bordering on the spectacular. Lawrence's office in the gym on Doyle chipped in for 17 and Walker added 16 more, Monday, February 15 at 1:00 a personal high. . p.m. An intramural track meet Tomorrow evening the Dutchmen wm be looking wi:ll:- be held on Thur~day, for their' sixth win in a row when the Engineers ·of F¢bruary 9, at 4:30 p.m. Events R.P.I. invade the Field House. Game time is eight · ate listed in Coach Lawrence's o'clock. office. $15·0· 00 REWARD ' . . .. PROBLEM: We want to sell cars to the youth m.a~ket. We want to use college newspapers. We want to write copy that is believable. What we want to say is too long and unmanageable. ., SOLUTION: . We decided on this approach-we'll give you $150 if you can write an \ad'' enco;mpassing what we have outlined below. We'll pick the. best submitted-give you $150. and use your ad in the future. HERE'S WHAT WE WANT TO· SAY. A sale must be ttue and believable. Each car line has a different \mark up\ so to say \discount\ is fooling someone. You can't have a uniform discount on un-uniform items. Also to s~y dealer cost .Plus a fixed percentage is bad. That would result in a profit of ~ay $1.70 on a Pinto and $600 on a T-:Bird-again not believable. We want to sell cars this way-Pinto and Maverick at invoice plus $170-Mustang and Torino at invoice plus $200-the big Ford at invoice plus $230 and a T~Bird at invqice plus $285. If you have read this far you can .see our problem. We want to _say to much and it's almost unreadable. Write us an ad that can get this message across and come and get the $150. 1 Mile No. of Cirele 785-4161 - 1 Tt co us irr de w SCi th: on fal int Se wt A< Th co te< thl to sta ler. NC ap sal pa di~ stu fro len me int po: th( agJ vet me \'1 1\ 1 .I s: at to an ad ha en1 ml m~ Se thl ph Dt att Sp wil M1 of Se ha: no thl C«J qu ha M: the prl re~ an wi1 wll mt () tl h 1 d ~

.• .. Founded at Union College 1877 - VOLUME 100, NUMBER28 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. FEBRUARY 12, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Senate Discusses The .college Crises Issues and Tempers Flare F acuity Confronts Martin by HOWARD STONE · The Student Sen~te met this Tuesday evening in an air of considerably more tension than usual, as several matters of importance and controversy were dealt with. As a preliminary statement, Walter Spencer opened the session by dispelling the notion that Senate meetings are· open only to elected representatives, lrt fact, ' they are open to any interested students. FolloWing that statement, the Senate proceeded to consider what Spencer referred to as Administration rule by \edict.!' The first topic concerned the controversy over hair on sports teams. Apparently, last spring, the Administration sent a memo to the Athletic Department, stating that standards of hair length should be governed by NCAA regulations where applicable, by requirements of safety, and by a vote of participants, before anyone IS dismissed from a team; no student should be eliminated from participating because of the length of his hair. A copy of this memo will be shown to anyone interviewed for the now-vacant position of athletic director, with the assumption being that he will agree to it before being hired. The next item dealt with, the vetoed plans for the combination movie-concert-carnival in the ----- Will the person or persons who removed the picture of Millard Fillmore from S.S. 115 please J:etwn it to Dean _Lichterman's office in the same building. No questions will be asked. -·· The college community may, at last, be given the opportunity to speak with President Martin and Dean Malloy about recent administration decisions that have n.ot been too enthusiastically accepted by many students and faculty members. Walter Spencer, Student Senate President, has announced that a Senate meeting is being planned for next ~eek which Dean' Malloy will definitely attend to answer questions. Spencer stated that he will UJeet with President Martin on Monday to dis~uss the possibility of Martin also attending the Senate meeting. The President, Spencer noted, has already stated that he will not answer questions concerning the vetoed Girting Center Concert with The Band. All questions related to that are~ will have to be directed to Uean Malloy, Spencer con,tinued, since the President feels that the problem is well within the Dean's realm of jurisdiction •. Spencer will hopefully announce the results of his talk with Martin early next week when the date of the Senate meeting is settled upon. ~----------------------- I The Poco Concert, I originally scheduled for tomorrow night at midnight, has been moved up to 1l p.m. Tickets will be $3.50 at the door in Memorial Chapel, if 1, any remain. spring. Mark Coven, Phil Galdston, and Bob Ditter, all of whom were involved in the planning and the actual proposal ·of the plan, were present to discuss what had actually happened. They confttmed that the details, as presented in Concordiensis 'on Tuesday,. were essentially com,~ct. At the request of several Senators, they then spent about half an hour outlining the actual plan in more detail, going as far as to draw a map of the Girting Center area in which the concert was to be held, in order to describe security precautions which had been taken. The tremendous amount of effort involved in planning, coupled with President Martin's refusal to even look at the plans, prompted the Senate to invite the President to a meeting next week in order to explain his reaction. The rest of the meeting was occupied with an information Continued on Page 7 by PETER BfCKERMAN A special meeting was held Tuesday afternoon, February 9, at which President Harold C. Martin and the faculty discussed the recent implementation of several controversial adminis- trative policies. There were three major issues in question, involving the follelwing: establishment of the tenure limit at 60 percent of the faculty; reduction for the junior faculty from two-year to .one- year contracts; and the budgetary increase of 4 percent (below the cost of living) to be spent for professorial salaries. President Martin met with approximately 70 faculty members for nearly two hours, in what one faculty source described as a \wide open\ discussion marked by lively exchanges. On each of the three main topics, Dr. Martin made an opening s ta temen t o·r explanation, which was followed by audience questioning. The faculty source interviewed asserted that Martin's treatment of the tenure issue was adroit, and thereby he defused much of the anger derived from this particular subject. The President apparently explained that the College's tenure policy was not restnct1ve in comparisqn to academic institutions of similar standing, The College's salar) increment policy was generally accepted by those present as a necessary response to general economic difficulties prevalent throughout the nation. Faculty questioning on this matter, however, included expressions of unhappiness concerning the operations of The Advisory Committee on Salaries, Division 1 Asks Meeting On Tenure With Martin And Salary Committee Meeting yesterday afternoon any perogatfves they had to the committee was paymg ·-tqe faculty ·Of .. ,.l:>.ivision 1 keeping discussions, by the attention to his comments he uniu1irrioi.Isiy-·\Yeques that committee, 6C. themselves, wou-ld discontinue· •. supplying Chairman James Pal~er and the ·confidential. By being able to them. members of the committee on refer, without violating Professor Murphy (English) Faculty sala-ries, promotion and confidentiality, to specific cases, Conjectured that the committee tenure as well as President they felt, the Division could gain might possibly reac.t with Martin meet with the Division to better insight into how the assurances that a new system for discuss the committee's committeeworked. rating faculty would be procedures and recent decisions. One department chairman said introduced next year. Professor The request grew out of that he wanted to be sure the Gado thought it might not be discussion concerning some committee was reading the unreasonable to expect that the faculty discontent over the rating m;;tterial on his department that Division would not be satisfied system currently used by that he had prepared for them. with the discussion if it became committee, which is composed of Another chairman said that the center deans and a unless he was soon satisfied that Continued on Page 6 Promotion, and Tenure. The Committee, which theoretically adjusts faculty salaries on the basis of ratings received from department chairmen, was attacked for its supposedly arbitrary style of decision- making. It became obvious that the one- year contract stipulation was the major matter of controversy, at least for those present. According to the faculty source, approximately 70 percent of the audience consisted of untenured faculty, and \some very pointed questions\ were directed at President Martin. Many of those attending were particularly upset by the unilateral manner of Dr. Martin's contract decision; there was a prevailing mood that at least some faculty should have been consulted beforehand. According to the source previously mentioned, President Martin appeared to be visibly surprised by the faculty's vehemence on ·t·his issue. In addition, Martin and other administrators present w.erc obviously unaware of a provision in the raculty Manual which may be interpreted as insuring assistant professors two-year contracts. This pmvisio·1, V.hich was brought to li;5ht by d faculty member, was interpreted b) Martin' and others as . being actually ambiguous in tone.' Our faculty source concluded by stating that this meeting appeared to be unique, in that President Martin's conciliatory skills did not succeed in placating many of those present. In this professor's words, \The faculty was more upset· afterwards than before,\ in certain resper-t~ representative from each division, in determining a faculty member's salary and term of appointment. Professor Sven Peterson (Philosophy} first broached the topic of a Division reaction to its qualms over the Advisory committee's efficacy. He recommended that the Division withdraw its representative from the committee until its p~ocedures have been reviewed and altered. Educator Kozel Questions Public School Repression · In the interchange which followed, Professor Frank Gado (English) presented the alternative proposal that was ultimately adopted by the Division. Speaking on ·behalf of his proposal Professor Gado said this was an effective first step. He felt the committee would come anc! be willing to talk about procedures; if the Division were not satisfied by this meeting he indicated, then perhaps it could go further in the direction ol Professor Peterson's motion. There \ was much discussion around the Gado motion speculating on the reaction of the Advisory committee to the request of the Division. Some faculty members thought that the committee, whose deliberations ate confidential, would use this confidentiality to keep the discussion from coming to grips with the issues. Professors Shinagel and Gado (both of English) specifically stated that they would be willing to waive by LOUIS SNITKOFF Jonathan Kozol, author and teacher, speaking in Memorial Chapel Tuesday. night on \Political Indoctrination In The Public School,\ said education reform cannot come about through silent progress. Kozol prefaced his discussion by asserting that he is not a spokesman for the blacks: \a generation that has produced Malcolm X, Martin Luther King and Bobby Seale, certainly does not r.eed a white spokesman.\ He related his own educational background, dwelling on conditions in the \conservative prep-school\ he attended where he placed himself as \the second Jewish student in one hundred years.\ JONATHAN KOZOL . (photo by Charles Long) His concern about public education is an outgrowth of faults he encountered in his own schooling. A Harvard ah,J.mnus, Kozol said the hardest fact to accept is the discovery of how naive, innocent and uncritical we are . \We see children not thinking independently,\ he said, ... \and we have schoois turning out people like Richard Nixon.\ Public schools, he charged, are vehicles of stat~ control guaranteed to foster the perpetuation of certain values in this country. \The 4uestion we must ask,\ he said, \is whether public schooling is a viable entity in itself.\ Kozol described education as being the second largest industry in the United States, surpassed only by defense. It is an industry, he said, characterized by false labeling and dishonest packaging. It's a monopoly. and it's criminal not to buy it. He listed the five priorities of the schools, in order of importance, as being socialization (\which we call brainwashing in Russia\) baby-sitting- \or twelve-year house arrest until you're innocent Continued on Pa!(e 6

: ·t PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 12, 1971 To the Editor: The students and faculty of Union College now have an opportunity to reach toward the one thing that Unbn needs most: mutual trust. Recent unilateral decisions by President Martin (although hardly unique) have at least created that possibility. In particular, there has been the veto of the rock concert (apparently without a full hearing) and the de.cision to give one-year contracts to a II instructors and assistant professors (although official administration policy specifies two-year contracts for assistant professors). The success of decisions like these is not inevitable. It depends, to a great extent, on the lack of trust between the students and faculty and the lack of self- respect among the members of each group. There are already signs that those handicaps are beginning to be overcome. And any attempt by either group to oppose the wishes of the administration will surely benefit from the understanding and support of the other group. If we were to stand in each other's shoes on the issue of influence at Union College, I think we would find that, on the whole, the shoes fit. Two clarifications might help: last month, after a majority of both students and faculty hac;! voted not to retain the language requirement in its present form, President Martin made the one- year contract decishn and singled out the Modern Language Department as... a probable target for lower enrollment and the elimination of two to four jobs. The painful Editor·in·Chief Peter J. Weingold Managing Editor James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. News Editor Peter Dickerman Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong Business Manager Lloyd Birns Asst. Business Managers Joseph Achenbaum Doug Binder National Ad~. Mgr. Mark Shulman Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Sports Editor Mark Shugoll Editono Emeriti William Ouzer . Henry G. Fein Contributing Editor Richard L. Kramer Photography Editor Jody Saslow Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey STAJ.'F: Pattv Sine. l.es (icJldman . .lav Hohart; Marc Lu~t. Harn' S..tmud,, J ud~ Stcin~!!ch. Tom Coni<·:.. David Conti., Circg Hamlin. !VliL·had Hnllan<Jcr., <icorgc Kaplan. Rohert A. Lnme. M1l<.c .\1c,<:rok. f hom a' \1orantc. Ruth Morinn. Barhara MdJon,tld. l om !'v11tchcll, I en Solon!llll (ic·of)!C Bam. ~hut~ Berman, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Mark Zubres, Michael Rosenberg, Howard St~ne. l'ubhshed 1 ~ay. and Frid~y' during the -chool year hy the ~tudenl hody ot llnoon College. Schenectady, N.Y .. \'atinnal Advcrti,mg Rcpre...,nlatove. Nallonal E:ducatoolllll Adi'Crtl>ing Servo•\· Inc., Collogc Publi~hc\ Rcpresentatl'c. 3t\O l.cxongton /we, NYC F.dnortal· ollie.:. Old (;ym. l!\oon College. PubiOCJ<twn Oflicc. llte World l'uhtocaloon>, 771 State Street. Schenectady. N.Y. l2l07. :146- 23St>. l.ntercd tn the S.:hciiCCiady post ollicc •• Sec(md Clas~ Mail Matter, Suhs.croptann 2tl cents a copy. Ula year dt:bvcrt-d anywhere on the United State;;. -------------··-·--. --- Student F acuity Unity Mr. Stineback's suggestion of a student-faculty alliance ira opposing unilateral and unfair decisions of the administration 1s an excellent one that's long overdue. Both students and faculty have recently been burned by decisions of Pres. Martin, but neither group nt:eds accept the proclamations as final. A united student-faculty coalition could demand and secure decision making powers now held by the president. It is our responsibility, and obviously in our interest, to meet together, student and faculty representatives, in an open forum where many diverse and original proposals could be made. Any interested parties. are encouraged to use this paper as an inte'rmediary. All announcements of student-faculty meetings will be prominently featured, and all proposals for·· a student-faculty alliance will be printed. Mr. Stineback·s integrity for speaking up on campus issues is also to be lauded. It is sad that few faculty members are willing to do so. They'r' Frieradly Not Dangerous The drug busts on Wednesday morning would. be comical if the results were not so tragic. 105 brave policemen arrested 38 persons and charged them with possession of dangerous drugs. It is absurd for most of the members of this campus to sit back in relief and say: •There, but for the incompetance of the Schenectady vice squad, go I..; To put it bluntly, every head is on the line. Many of those arrested face prison sentences for supplying this campus whh grass, so almost every member of this not so innocent but very hypocritical college community 1s involved in the trials of those arrested. We can write congratulatory letters, and give needed support, to Assemblyman Licht,er from Manhattan, who has proposed legislation to legalize marijuana. We can also contri~ute money for bail and the defense funds of those arrested. irony of this decision, h.owever, is that national regulations·require the administration to inform these faculty members by September I, 1971 if they will be rehired for 1972-73. This means simply that, in place of required language courses, the endangered members of the Modern Language Department now have no opportunity to get any new courses underway next year, in comparative literature for example (much requested by students), before the final decision IS made on the popularity of their department among students. Some other departments are in the same squeeze as well. Secondly, the actual provision in the Faculty Manual on contracts for assistant professors (which includes those members of the Modern Language Department who would be relieved ofduty) reads as follows: \Appointment or reappointment at the rank of assistant professor shall be for two years and 1s renewable unless the letter of contract specifies to the contrary.\ If you look closely, you'll see that this statement can be read two ways (although the normal reader would assume, I think, that \unless\ modifies \renewable not \t~o years\). There are indications, however, that the administration might not read it in a normal fashion. If the statement is not legally binding, it certainly is ethically binding. These are some of the facts. It is very much in the interest of both students and faculty to talk about the entire situation, whether on an individual basis or in ajoint meeting. David Stineback Department of English * * * * To the Editor: Several students, myself included, recently lunched with the Director of the Annual Fund, Mr. Gordon Decker. The purpose of this meeting was a discussion of how students might become involved in helping the college raise money from the alumni. Among, the items brought to Mr. Decker's attention was the belief that if students were allowed to become more a part of the decision- making process at Union they would have a greater feeling of identity with the college while in school and more of an understanding of college problems after they left school. After lunch [ spoke with Mr. Jonathan Pearson, Director of Alumni Relations, and voiced the opinion that students would be very willing to help in any alumni program if they could only be convinced that Union was their colleg.e as well as the administration's and the Board of Trustee's. I left Mr. Pearson's office with high hopes that a large number of students would come to the aid of Union when they were a ware that she was in 'financial trouble. I was mistaken. Of the students I spoke with, a small number indicated that they w<:>uld be most willing to meet with Mr. Pearson but a large majority indicated that they just didn•t have the time or care enough about Union to bother to make the effort. When I pressed these people further most responded that they didn't have any real feeling for the school artd they didn't have any stake in the college as an institution. They were here to get their degrees and get out. It would seem to me that one way m which students might begin to feel that they have a stake in Union College would be if they felt that they have some voice in how the decision making process is implementec;i. At the moment they have only a squeak. The way in whi·ch the administration is alleged to have handled the proposal concerning the Girling Center Concert only adds weight to the claim that student opinion carrys very little weight in ariministration circles. In short, if .tle administration expects students to help Union, or have any feeling for their schoal after they graduate, it will have to indicate in p~ctice that it has some respect and trust in student opinions. At the moment this trust seems minimal. Da\id S. R()bbins, '73 * * * * l' o the Editor: Pres. Mar~in's veto of the proposed Spring festival to be held at the Girling Center is a grotesquely obvious example of the warped priorities that exist at Union. The main reason the event was canceled was the fear of adverse publicity with the community. It terrifies us to think of the millions of horrified citizens who will choke on their morning coffee because , the Schenectady Gazette ·has a picture of male · and female students sleeping m the same field. This outraged group, which one source close to the administration estimated is worth to the college $250,000, find it difficult to accept pre-marital sex that is not paid for in advance. It is these people, placing their puritanical thumb-.on us all, who have canceled the event. If this situation was even possible, much less actually happening, it would· mean a complete examination a·nd change of this institution's financial situati0n and priorities. Union College is here to serve the student, not to reassure the~ Neanderthal mentalities of some community inhabitants. If Pres. Martin cannot keep this college solvent without destroying the cultural possibilities at Union, then perhaps he is in the wrong place at the wrong time. If there is no way the college can serve the students without going bankrupt, let us see what General Electric will give for a slightl) used college. - Danny Shocket, '72 * * * * My Dear Mr. Meserole; After reading your article in the February 9, I 971 issue of the .CONCORDJENSIS, I felt reasonably certain that your subtle brand of satire was going to rival Mt. Krise Jr.'s and place BRING YOUR --·- -r DATE Entertainment 7 Nights Jackets Required 1617 Union St. Sch'dy you in the vanguard .of CONCORDlENSIS humor (each issue rivaling the previous, I feel, ,in inanity). After conferring with several people, 1 now get the impression that you were actUaUy senous. Can you speak seriously af \national pride in the first degree\ when our egocentrie nation is irreverently_ polluting the entire uni~erse as it has polluted its ow~ rlanet? (ie: Ieav~ng pieces . of eqU;Iptnent contaminated Wllh who knows what kind .of shit, all over the moon and in its atmosphere!) Further, how can you possibly be conceiJ!ed with \unrewarded men and women of. ,NASA'' being unemployed When countless numbers 0f people in our cities, on our .. fanns\ and in ot~r mountains . are starving to death thinking aU the while what a great meal they would have if only they could get nel{t to some of that good moon green cheese. they've heard so much about. Ever .if you were jesting, Mr.· Meserole, the situation is not on.e· to be jested about. Instead of. writing articles, you should be writing letters weekly, if . not daily, to Milhous. in the· White House telling him what you have told us,.· if indeed your tone was one :.Unique to . CONCORD• IENSIS satire: . Write o.n, Mr. Meserole • ~atthew Swartz '73 ABORTION COUNSELING, INFORMATION AND REFERRAL- SERVICES A~ortions up to 24 weeks of pregnancy are now lc:gal in New York State. There are no resi· dency restrictions at cooperating hospitals. Only the consent of the patknt and the .performitrg physician is required. If you think you are pregnant, consult ybut doctor. Don 1 t de- lay. If you choose to have an abortion; early abortions arc simpler and safer. ·Abortions should be· per- formed by Board ccrtined obste- tricians and gynecologists, with Board certified anesthesiologists. attending, in fulJ,y licensed and accredited general hospitals. You should not have to pay exorbi- tant charges for any of these services. If you need information or ·professional assistance, including immediate registratio!J i.nto avail· able hospitals, : telephone The Abortion Jnform(ltion · Agency, (212-873 -6650), which has helped counsel and place more than 22 1 000 women for safe, legal hospital abortions. The total costs at good facil- ities range as follows (in-patient hospital service, except as noted): For D & C: Pregnancy up to 9 weeks, $285-$310 (out-patient nospital service) j 'up to 12 weeks, $385-$410.; up to 14 weeks, $560. For Saline Induc- tions: 16-24 weeks, $560-$585. THE ABORTION INFORMATION ACENCY, INC. 160 West 86th St., N.Y., N.Y. 100:24 212-873-6650 PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE IBM Selectric: experience in Doctoral Dissertations; Reasonable Rates. Cal/462·6283. 8 AM to 10 PM Seven Days a Week ##.HH#####H~HH#H#f • .. · \ ., I ' .. • .. t.l .. • r: n a n b p s a n ti ~ n t( \\ ti tl c ir e1 lll dl N S( lo m S1 gc sc pi n< to fa as ar in or Co off ent pre de~ wo pre req r Ca pro in hea gue Wr. Dir Im1 Am Dr. will Ma foil• mvc of Gar Ne\1 Pub Mat se.mi 8 o' to a1 A on 1 com

• J 1 I .. I ·• ·I 1,\ ' ·~ ' ... •) • . . Summary of the Summaries, Get Together or Forget It CONCORDJENS/S, FEB. 12. 1971 PAGE 3 by RAY KRISE JR' The past few days have been some of the most significant in Union College 1 s history~ What's happened so far, in chronologic(ll order, i\s: Richard Nixon made a summary decision to invade Laos; President Mattin has made a summary decision to Fevise the two-year contract renewal policy for untenu.red faculty, cutting h to ·one year, and placed a fixed percentage --,.-'60%- on lhe number of faculty who may achieve tenure;. President Martin made a summary decision to block -the Social. Committee's proposed outcl.oo r concert for the Spring; the faculty got pissed off at Dr. Martin and there was a meeting to explain the reason for the new contracts. and nobody was satisfied· by it; and the cps made a rtot·so-sumtnary decision to bust .38 people, two of whom were Union students, causing a tremor of paranoia througho.ut the campu$ . that r-ivaled the Californ-ia ea~rth,quake in intensity and scope. ' · In other words, a . wh.o1e lot. of energy has been . stin¢d up,; but nobody seeins t() ~now what to do with: it -'- save for Richard Nixon and Dr .. Martin, who are sorta hoping that everybody 'Will look at the ·ersa-tz men on the moon 'and. the' . beautiful new Science Center and forget about getting angry.· Ah, the best laid schemes ... Anyway, we have· all these problems aro-und us, and nobogy's really sure which way to go in solving them. The faculty so far · has· no -consensus as how to, g~t ?ny sor;t of _power, and the ~tutlents doO:t: app~ar too inclined to aid them because, as one student said, :'Ho~. ~an ypu Information on ihe Teacher Corps is available in Mrs. Beam1s office. Applicants\ seeking to enter gradaate Teacher Corps projects must have .a bachelor's degree and a strong desire to. work at the graduate level, No previous edttcation courses are required. trust those guys when they claim to be liberal, then fuck us during the Spring Strike. then get radical when their own i·eH~ being is threatened!\ the kids don't seem too upset over the invasion of J .. aos, either ~ too many of them think \imperialist aggression\ is a weird thing out of the Kama Sutra invovlving a brand of margarine,. As for the canceled concert, wel'l, it's too bad and all that, but whatareva gonna do? - The only issue which has at all motivated the students of Union College has been the big. drug bust. It's like a classic case of having cried '\wolf.\ ihe thing finally showed up, albeit right at our doorstep ·and nl)t in the b,ouse itself. The Top 40 radio stations . have been joyously alluding to even more fun busts, and lots of people have been torn between gutsirtg it out o·r disposing of their stashes. The laws of economics being what they are; paranoia is rampant in the colleg~ community. The. trouble ·is, the kids are being selfish and narrow-minded. It seems a bit incongruous to be hassled over ·dope and be worrying whether you'll be able to show up at Poco properly stoned - and prgperly attired in bellbottoms, · body shirts and fringed leather wear (\peace love, instant karma,\ _as one of my friends says) - and not get at all upset when other people are getting shit on. Dig it: the same kind of constipated mind that drew up the dope laws and busted those people is the same kind of . constipated mind that di~regarded. Artide 4, Section 4 oL the Faculty H.anQ.,book and changed the length of the renewal 346-9776 or your floor senator. * * * * Liner backer, The Student Course Evaluation, will be available Wednesday, February 17. A master copy will be located at the . reference desk in the library. Shorter versions are available to all students and * * * * faculty. Faculty members rna y Monday Febraary 15, the pick up copies from their Comprehensive Education department secretaries. Students program will present the second will be able to pick up copies in in a series of three seminars in the lounges of each dormitory, health related topics. This week's the library and in the Student guest speaker wilt be Dr. George Activities Office. Wm. Graham, Executive Also, the Lineba.cker is Director of Ellis Hospital and searching for interested students Immediate J>ast President of the who would like to help with the American Hospital Association. course evaluation in the future. If D.r. Graham's topic of disc~ssioli · you are interested please contact: will be Health Care and He.alth · Art Riccio at 346-9227 Manpower. The talk will be · Jim Shearer at 346-9692 · ~ollow7d by, a panel aisclission Byron Kellogg at 346-9136 mvolvmg Dr.: Graham.', students * * * * of the college and· Miss Jane Prof. John Koller, of RPI, will Garry, a . staff member of the speak at 8:30 p.m.. Sunday, Feb. New York State Departr.nent of 14, in Old Chapel on the topic Public Health, Allied· Health \The .Death Of God And Manpower Division. The ReUgious Life.\ Professor Koller st';rninar will be held in SSO 16 at will ten.ch RELIGIONS QF 'tHE 8 o'clock and everyone is urged WORLD af Union during spring to attend. ternt Be has visited classes of * \' * * Professors Roth and Thurston. Anyone interested in serving Students and faculty have both on the Freshman Year revision been very favor~tbly impressed comrriittee.; contact Jeff Walker with his past lectures. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food I 125 BAR.RETr St. Schenectady 01 6-9744 . Enjoy Sinling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar cont r.a ct s. And most important for both students and faculty to remember - it's the same kind of constipated mind that decided to invade yet another neutral country in its fruitless quest for a \just peace\ (read that, \a prominent place in history\) for President Richard Masculine Nixon. The Students and faculty must soon rea1ize that there must be solidarity among all the oppressed people o:f the world (naw. 1 ain't 'never read Marx). If the students and faculty want to raise a hue and cry over their ow.n vested interests, they have absolutely no ethical reason for not demanding the immediate withdraw!ll of all U.S. forces from Laos, not to mention Cambodia, not to mention all of Southeast Aisa. And they also have absolutely no reason not to try to help each other - students and faculty - to achieve a 'just peace\ here on the campus. Hell, .I've never been very big on sublimation. Police in Action After Wednesday's Drug Raids. See story, page 4. (W M HT News Photo hy Ri\h Kramer) Send your lovebundle our 'LoveBundle:T M · ;::.__-\And she'll be bitten by . the Lov~Bug. Th.:1t's me'.\ Usually available $12 so· for less than • What better word than \Love\? What better way to say it than with the \Love Bundle\? A special Valentine's bouquet, with a lift-out LoveBug corsage to wear on Valentine's D,1y. Order it to arrive early. Because it's designed to stretch Valentine's Day into a whole week. Why squeeze your love into one day? Available only at an FTD florist. At u special price. Send the FTD \loveBundle\ for Valentine's w~k. *As an indep~ndent businessman, each FTD Member F'lonst sets h1s own prices. ALL-PANASONIC STORE CELEBRATES MOVE TO LARGER \THEATRE.\ Center Stage has doubled in s1ze in just 3 months' We'ru still in the mini-mall-but bigger, and better • than ever. There's more to see. And, more to save To celebrate our opening, we're offering these spec;ally priced \curtam-raisers\: PANASONIC 4-track \pop-up\stereo cassette fast- wind recorder With AFC FM!AM!FM Stereo radio, speakers. Reg $179.95. now $129.95 PANASONIC Deluxe Components. FM/AM!FM Stereo radio, automatic station finder, and matched speakers, automatic changer, stereo headphones. Complete package Reg $204.95, now $177.00 \ ... PANASONIC IS THE WHOU:: SHOW!\ iN TlJE MINI MAt.L AT MOHAWK MALL, SCHENECTADY TEL. (518) 346·t934 ()pen 10:110 a.m. to t:3D p.m .. Monday throa8}1 Saturday Saturday and Sunday, Feb. 13 & 14 SOPER ·sHOW 1~e English Roc~. Blues. Jaa film w1\h led Zeppl•n, Steve Sf111s, Em Clapton,. Buddy Mills, M.J.Q., Roland Kirk, Oa'las Taylor, Coleseum, and others \In Color\ and \Quodrophonic Sound\ Continuous at 7:15.9.15 & 11 P.M. Admtss•on $3.00 frldsy, Feb. l9 BYRDS CACTUS R{OEY( Wednesday. Msrt~ 31 SMAll FACES : '~tlln !lo~ Stewart ilennvlones, Ron~re lant, l•n r.tcla&en &. k:;n Wall(! THE ilREASE BftHO (lorm~tly with Joe Cocker) Sll~~:a' Gce5t Ar!isls: SAVO'f BROWN C.om1ng· 10 Yn. AIIP.r, lltCln lohn: Hilt TUna, Willie Di~Dn, ana man,, many others Pub••c•ty· Ne.v Concept Assoc's, l~c. Production & Sound· Nal'l Stuoent Producflons, Inc. N.V.C. & Campber•, C.ilt', Programm,ng, Ashwood House, ltd. hcept where Indicated: 2 shows ••ghtly 11t 7:30 & 1 1 ;30 ·p M., se~t\\'' by 1ect.oo r,c~et Info, (518; 434·3345 - BullneH Ofi>ce 1518 434·2179- ~ \'c. ,),2, ,.u2 osos ·s~ 1•1n· to get stub aoa hana na:nJled uPO~ en!n ~~ show.\ Mail Orce•r. c ·• • r· ,-, ·e, c ,,. payao•e 'to \Nll1'1 ~!ullaot Proauct•onl, toe \ BO;( 112, A.b •• , 'y ~2~ .. -,. £rt· .iH '~ 'dG dress.ed s~ampeo thllf';Ot:>e & ~~e' 1 • :d'l! & t~me_ 0 1 0&rs rc.\t;~pd ;_ \',>~ bt'~ c :.•·~·\ y.; b': ~&!d al bV~ ,CfftlC v'·l i ~ .. ~11 : .. i' ~,,1 OHtte OtiC\~~ .tt 2 P.M G.clt c· ·.\':~> ~~-~ .. ... . rg t• ... keh ~vallaC e ~J~t' \\fi~K ; _ -~ •• ... . day pre~eo i1 l~Jw ~Jb:q ''\·' , . \\'a'j~tng~o, Ad o!3~ J:. 1~ · .... ~.\-l .. ~ad_y · ;·; Cf\ER SlOE ··e 1JCO¥ \Jl ol • -· -. 'e· Mohawk M.t.·: r:cvs;~~ •,E', .. ·. ~ ~: .'.•L :;r;.;r,,j J·o 1 _ JH[ ~~~,~~,~ .::.·~~~ .. i'., .;./ ~ .-- r-·o~~ !.' . .i:'1l;vo.

PAGE4 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB.l2, 1971.' .· Schenectady County Bust Nets .Scores Of Pushers Distorted Pho:tograp:hs, Films Belie The Warren Findings by PATTY SIPE and . . . BARBARA Mt!DONALD It Is mterestmg to note that the Bob Saltzman a member of Warren Commission could only the Washingto~· D.C. base.d obtain. ~ copy of tQe ~ilrt;, si~ce National Committee to the ongmal was bought oy Llfe Investigate Assassinations, and magazine; no· attemp~ ~as made gracj.uate student at !Jnion to subpoena ~~e ongma~ film . . College,~ discussed the There Is suspiCIOn that m the S\tudents being booked after Wednesday's Drug Raid· (Photo by Rich Kramer, Courtesy WMHT News) by RICHARD LEE KRAMER There was little sign of overt '71, and Damien Triouleyre, '72 WMHT TV 17 NEWS brutality on the part of the were charged with two Wednesday dawn brought police, who seemingly substituted misdemeanors and one felony, strange messengers to the doors planning for brute force. The respectively. In terms of of scores of local drug users, suspects were quite subdued in discipline, Malloy asserted that including small and big time general, but one pusher took a the college has no plans to take pushers of hard & soft drugs. fist to a television news disciplinary action and wiU leave The bust was in planning for cameramen who protected his the matter to the civil courts. several months and was staged face with his camera. Malloy added that he was simultaneously by the various The courtroom was packed unaware of the bust until police departments of with spectators and friends and receiving a call from one of the Schenectady county, with the relatives of the suspects, One students in jail on Wednesday assistance of state police officers. class was brought in ·from morning. He expressed the hope . Drugs of all varieties were found, Niskayuna High School to that the bust does not create a as · were drug utensils and witness the plight of many of paranoid reaction on campus weapons. their peers. which might result in ugly Police agents, dressed in Edward J. Jalloy; Dean of rumors concerning the presence plainclothes and often posing as Students, in an interview with of Narcs, and the like. One of the Western Union men, staged a six- CONCORDIENSIS yesterday, most dangerous side effects of thirty A.M. raid on the homes of stated as far as he knew, no bail marijuana,\ he said, \is its result the area youths and adults for had been set for the two Union in a paranoid state of mind.\ whom they had obtained students who were arrested. undercover evidence of illegal School policy, he said, is not to drug trafJi.cking and for whom provide bail, but we basically warrants had been issued. withhold information about the According to one source within student. an area police department, Malloy asserted that, to his approximately eighty warrants knowledge, there are no \narcs\ were issued. and the raid netted on campus and that in the event better than thirty-five alleged of a raid on dormitories, the dope pushers, among them two college would seek to protect the Union students living off campus. rights of the students, in The tremendous body of demanding arrest warrants before evidence necessary to stage the entry. raid, wich included Schenectady, The two Union students Scotia, and Niskayuna was the arrested, Samuel K. Cohn, Jr. result of months of coordinated undercover work and cooperation by local and state authorities. One police source stated that there was sufficient evidence at hand to stage another bust of the same magnitude· in the near future, and that area college students who think they enjoy immunity from the law might be in for a rude surprise. The Schenectady Police Station had all the atmosphere of a police field day as booking blotters were filled at breakneck clip. There were so many official vehicles about that a parking problem developed in the vicinity of the police station. THIS WEEKEND AUDREY HEPBURN ALAN ARKIN in: \Wait Until Dark\ the we-can-do anything- instantly printing place It's your Goodway Copy Center. Where we print anything. Instantly. Sometimes we say. \Wait JUSt a mmute.\ Other times.'' Come back tomorrow. Same time.\ How do we do if? Easily. You give us a camera-ready orig1na1. You get as many copies as you want. And they look terrific. What else do we do? We ' .i' \ . ~ \. ' copy, bind. collate. pad. fold. staple. pick up and deliver. All for •• ••.•• · •• ••••• -1 a very low cost. ~ _ ....... ···~I.~'~ ' '._ ~ ' '.' s : ~·· .... ,: . ' j GOOOW~4 g~k-s I I Here's a government position with a real future for both men and women. An officer's job in the Air Force. A management level job in anybody's book. Certainly, there's no better way to get the experience ;;md train· ing needed for execut1ve responsi- bility. Assassination of President John copy, two frames were reversed Kennedy on WRUC Open Air and though it see~ed to_. ha~e Thursday evening. been an h?n.est mistake, It sti.ll The National--Committee is a makes a dtfference when one 1s loosely organized group of eA.amining the film fran:e~by­ citizens who feel that too little frame. In Saltzman's OPlmon, attention has been given to this film is in conflict with the investigating assassinations. They Warren conclu~ions concemi:~g are prima_rily concerned. with the the .three sho~s f1red down war~ m assassinations of John kennedy, r~pid s~ccesswn from a Iocatwn Robert Kennedy, and Martin six stone~ above the street. ·Luther Ki~g. According to Accordm~ to the Report, the Saltzman, one of the major first shot missed completely, t~e problems that the committee has second shot was non-fataland hit faced is the reluctance of some of both Kennedy and Connally, and its members to share information the third shot was fatal to the with the others For the most President. Because of a minimum part, the Com.ro'ittee exists only time required ~o fire three shots in name because there is no real (a s d e term me d by F B I communication between its investigation) it is doubtful that members. one person could possibly fire all Saltzman believes that it has three shots with that degree of never been totally proven that accuracy, as suggested by the Lee Oswald fired the shots that Warren Commission. killed Kennedy, and he Saltzman personally believes personally belieVes that Oswald that four shots were fired. Other had accomplices. members of the Committee have The evidence that Saltzman different theories, one member considers to be most influential having a very well documented in the Warren Commission's approach which supports the decision is the photograph in firing of six shots. which a face appears which is Saltzman mentioned that there identical to Oswald's but no one is evidence that Jack Ruby, Clay is certain that it is, in fact, his. Shaw, and Lee Oswald were He expressed the belief that the involved in a conspiracy, as there Commission was \duped\ into are twelve witnesses who have believing that it was he, implying seen them together at Vl!-rious that the photograph had possibly times. However, he does not see been altered. a link between the assassinations Based on his own of the Kennedy brothers and the investigation, Saltzman has come death of Martin Luther King. to believe that the conclusions His personal feelings are that reached by the Commission are Sirhan Sirhan did not kiii Robert 99% incorrect. In fact, he says Kennedy and that James Earl that there are even \overtones of Ray did hot shoot Martin Luther manipulation••· in the report. King. He stated that both event!: . The basic physical evidence were \whitewashed\, by the used in the Warren Report is an media. analysis of the famous film Next week, WRUC's open air shown frame-by~frame in Life will be broadcast live from magazine. The film portrays the Saratoga, · and in two weeks,. entire assassination sequence and College President Harold C. there is no evidence that it had ~~artin wili be featured on the been cut or spliced. talk show. WANTED: College men and women for man· agement positions in government. Must meet physical requirements. Financial aid available for in· college trainees. or applicants can enroll in special training course on graduation. Stateside and/or overseas travel guaranteed. lege, YOU Can get YOUr COmmiSSiOn r-----------·--;;N;;l-1 through the Air Force Officer Train- I USAF Military Personnel Center l ing Program. It is open to all college I Dept. A . grads, both men and women, who I Randolph AFB, Texas 78148 I qualify. • I .Please send me more infcrmation 1 Check it out. You'll find that the I on: I Air Force is one career that offers I 0 Officer Training School I something for everyone. Nearly 430 I 1 different jobs, ranging from aero- l D Air Force RoTC Prog:am 1 nauticai engineering to zoology, 1 1 with almost everything else, includ- 1 NA:O.'E AGE 1 ing flying, in between. But whatever 1 (pleilse ilrintl 1 your duties, you'll soon discover 1 ADDREss I that the Air Force wiU let you move. 1 I just as far and as fast as your tal- I c 1 rv STATE ZIP I ents can taKe you. I So look ahead and let your Col- PHONE DATE OF G!'lADUATioN I lege years pay off for you with a I managerial position in the U.S. Air I SCHOOl I Force. Just send in this coupon or write to USAF Military Personnel 1 understand there is no obligation. : A fun-filled sex-romp as two renegade nuns leave Paris breathless! 118·120 Broadway Schenectady, New York 12305 If you have two years of college remaining, you could fihd yourself earning an Air Force commission while you learn, through the Air Force ROTC two-year program. Along with college credits and CJ commission, you'll receive $50 each month as a student. And upon grad- uation, that management position we promised will be waiting for you. If an advanced degree is in your plans, you'll be happy to learn that the Air Force has a number of out- standing programs to help you fur- ther your edt,Jcation. If you're in your final year of col- Center, Dept A. Randolph AFB, 1 Texas 78148, and get your postgrad- l 1 uate career off the ground. 1 1 rand yourself in the l United States Air Force I L---------------J ,. . •· ;; '·* ' p 11··· • .. •• <1\1 ' •• if ,, ... - 1\. • •

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 12, 19i,· Schenectady County Bust Nets Scores Of Pushers Distorted Photographs, Films Belie The Warren Findings by PATTY SIPE and BARBARA McDONALD Bob Saltzman, a member of the Washington· D.C. based National Committee to investigate Assassinations, and It is interesting to note that the Warren Commission could only obtain a copy of the film, since the original was bought by Life magazine; no attempt was made to subpoena the original film. There is suspicion that in the copy, two frames were reversed and though it seemed to have been an honest mistake, it still makes a difference when one is examining the film frame-by- frame. In Saltzman's opinion, this film is in conflict with the Students being booked qfter Wednesday's Drug Raid.· (Photo by Rich Kramer, Courtesy WMHT News) by RICHARD LEE KRAMER There was little sign of overt '71, and Damien Triouleyre, '72 WMHT TV 17 NEWS brutality on the part of the were charged with two Wednesday dawn brought police, who seemingly substituted misdemeanors and one felony, strange messengers to the doors planning for brute force. The respectively. In terms of of scores of local drug users, suspects were quite subdued in discipline, Malloy asserted that including '>mall and big time general, but one pusher took a the college has no plans to take pushers of hard & soft drugs. fist to a television news disciplinary action and will leave The bust was in planning for cameramen who protected his the matter to the civil courts. several months and was staged face with his camera. Malloy added that he was simultaneously by the various The courtroom was packed unaware of the bust until police departments of with spectators and friends and receiving a call from one of the Schenectady county, with the relatives of the suspects. One students in jail on Wednesday assistance of state police officers. class was brought in from morning. He expressed the hope Drugs of all varieties were found, Niskayuna High School to that the bust does not create a as were drug ut~nsils and witness the plight of many of paranoid reaction on campus weapons. their peers. which might result in ugly Police agents, dressed in Edward J. Jalloy, Dean of rumors concerning the presence plainclothe~ and often posing as Students, in an interview with of Narcs, and the like. One of the Western Union men, staged a six- CONCORDIENSIS yesterday, most dangerous side effects of thirtv A.M. raid on the homes of stated as far as he knew, no bail marijuana,\ he said, \is its result the ~rea youths and adults for had been set for the two Union in a paranoid state of mind.\ whom they had obtained students who were arrested. ___ _ undercover evidence of illegal School policy, he said, is not to drug trafficking and for whom provide bail, but we basically warrants had been issued. withhold information about the According to one source within student. an area police department, Malloy asserted that, to his approximately eighty warrants knowledge, there are no \narcs\ were issued. and the raid netted on campus and that in the event better than thirty-five alleged of a raid on dormitories, the dope pushers. among them two college would seek to protect the Union students living off campus. rights of the students, in The tremendous body of demanding arrest warrants before evidence necessary to stage the entry. raid, wich included Schenectady. The two Union students Scotia. and Niskayuna was the arrested, Samuel K. Cohn, Jr. result of months of coordinated undercover work and cooperation by local and state authorities. One police source stated that there was sufficient evidence at hand to stage another bust of the same magnitude in the near future. and that area college students who think they enjoy immunity from the law might be in for a rude surprise. lhe Schenectady Police Station had all the atmosphere of a police field day ~is booking blotters were filled at breakneck clip. There were so many official vehicles ahout that a parking problem developed in the vicinity of the police station. THIS WEEKEND AUDREY HEPBlJRJ\ ALAN ARKIN in: ''Wait Until Dark'' A tun-filled sex-romp as two renegade nuns leave Paris breathless! the we-can-do anything- instantly printing place Ito; yn1u Goodw.1y Copy C<>nter WhPrf' \'\ rrmt ,1nytht119 lnstilntly. Somc•ttm!'s we say Watltust 01 hN !tmes.\Cnmp bnr'< tnmorrov.. S,lmr> ttmP ·· Hnv.. r1,1 wP rlo ,,~ Eilstly Y0:~ otvr IJS d camPr,t-ready l c-pH:~ L1s vou want Anti t~H_'\ •; ~~1.. !,'rr,f.r: wr,.I! ••Is\ rl<· \\\on\ v..,·, C()~'V hltld. ,~()llc1:e pac1 f,1ld sLlfl'P t'k'' un .n1e1 dPI•v•'r At! f,_,, a vt'r\ tow c:ost GOOOWF-14 g~ters 118· I 20 Broadway Schenectady, New York 12305 Here's a government position with a real future for both men and women. An officer's job in the Air Force. A management level job in anybody's book. Certatnly, there's no better way to get the experience and tratn· ing needed for execL-t.ve responsi- bility If you have two Y\Z'lrS of college remain mg. you coulo · tnd yourself Par:1mg an Atr For<.·! commission wh,'c you IParn. through the Air Force ROTC two-year program Along wt!h college credtls and a commissron. you'll receive $50 each rnonth as a studrnt. And upon grad- uatton. that management position we promrsed wtll be waiting for you If an advanced degree tS tn your plans. ;ou'll be happy to learn th<Jt tht> A, r Force ha:. a number of out· standrng programs to help you fur- thrr your educatton If you're in your ftnal year of col· graduate student at Ynion College, discussed the Assassination of President John Kennedy on WR UC Open Air Thursday evening. The National Committee is a loosely organized group of citizens who feel that too little attention has been given to investigating assassinati·ons. They are primarily concerned with the assassiNations of John Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King. According to Saltzman, one of the major problems that the committee has faced is the reluctance of some of its members to share information with the others. For the most part, the Committee exists only in name because there is no real communication between its members. Saltzman believes that it has never been totally proven that Lee Oswald fired the shots that killed Kennedy, and he personally believes that Oswald had accomplices. The evidence that Saltzman considers to be most influential in the Warren Commission's decision is the photograph in which a face appears which is identical to Oswald's but no one is certain that it is, in fact, his. He expressed the belief that the Commission was \duped\ into believing that it was he, implying that the photograph had possibly been altered. Based on his own investigation, Saltzman has come to believe that the conclusions reached by the Commission are 99% incorrect. In fact, he says that there are even \overtones of manipulation\ in the report. Warren conclusions concerning the three shots fired downward in rapid succession from a location six stories above the street. According to the Report, the first shot missed completely, the second shot was non-fatal and hit both Kennedy and Connally, and the third shot was fatal to the President. Because of a minimum time required to fire three shots (as determined by FBI investigation) it is doubtful that one person could possibly fire all three shots with that degree of accuracy, as suggested by the Warren Commission. Saltzman personally believes that four shots were fired. Other members of the Committee have different theories, one member having a very well documented approach which supports the firing of six shots. Saltzman mentioned that there is evidence that Jack Ruby, Clay Shaw, and Lee Oswald were involved in a conspiracy, as there are twelve witnesses who have seen them together at various times. However, he does not see a link between the assassinations of the Kennedy brothers and the death of Martin Luther King. His personal feelings are that Sirhan Sirhan did not kill Robert Kennedy and that James Earl Ray did not shoot Martin Luther King. He stated that both event~ were \whitewashed\, by the media. Next week, WR UC's open air will be broadcast live from Saratoga. and in two weeks, College President Harold C. The basic physical evidence used in the Warren Report is an analysis of the famous film shown frame-by-frame in Life magazine. The film portrays the entire assassination sequence and there is no evidence that it had been cut or spliced. ! Martin wili be featured on the talk show. -- - .. --·---------------------, WANTED: College men and women for man- agement positions in government. Must meet physical requirements. Financial aid available for in· college trainees, or applicants can enroll in special training course on graduation. Stateside and/or overseas travel guaranteed. lege, YOU Can get YOU( COmmiSSiOn ~-------------,;;;-N;;l-1 through the Air Force Officer Train- I USAF Military Personnel Center I ing Program. It is open to all college I Dept. A I grads, both men and women, who 1 Randolph AFB, Texas 78148 I qualrfy. • 1 1 Please send me more tnfrrmation ~ Check it out. You'll find that the 1 on: 1 Air Force is one career that offers 1 0 Officer Training School 1 something for everyone. Nearly 430 1 different jobs. ranging from aero- ~ lJ Air Force ROTC Program 1 nautical engineering to zoology, 1 1 with almost everything else, includ- 1 \' •r.r 1 (rl•->tse pnnl) ing flying, tn between. But whatever 1 I your duties, you'll soon discover 1 ADDRh>_ I that the Air Force will let you move 1 I just as far and as fast as your tal- I c 1 Tv STAH 7tP I ents can take you. I So look ahead and let your col- PHI'\-.;r oArror cql\_ouAno_:<J__ : lege years pay off for you with a managerial position in the U.S. Air 1 1 SCI--f~'\\l Force. Just send in this coupon or 1 write to USAF Mtlttary Personnel 1 understand there is no obltgJtion. 1 Center. Dept A. Randolph AFB. 1 Texas 78148, and get your postgrad· 1 1 uate career off the ground 1 1 Find yourself in the I United States Air Force i L _______________ _ .. c •• ~' l~ ~- J .. ,, ' • ' ' I l i ' ' ' ·<41 C• ... • ·• ... \ • I ., c •

•· #. • .. ' •. <Iii • tl ,J \ • .. Soc,ial Committee Presents Pop Culture Week Plans CONCORDIENS/S, FEB. 12, 1971 PAGE 5 · The Girting Center Concert, Sun., May 9, was planned as the c;ulmination of Pop Culture Week, May 2-9. The concert was initiated as an opportunity for Union and other local college students to enjoy a day in the sun with plenty of room in a beautiful natural surrounding. The day's activities would not only include examples of local arts and crafts, but would also give the stud~nts a sample of the music of one of America's best groups and the filmmaking of a superior American film director. would be four tickets per person. to sell was 5,000. Tickets would cost $5.00 and It is important to remembe1 would include admission to the that anybody who managed tc Girling Center, the movie, and break into the concert area 1 the concert. would not be breaking into a J Security- The sole entrance to vulnerable building such as the 1 the Girling Center is the long Field House. No fire hazard 1 driveway (A). Vehicles would could reslllt from an excess 1 enter the driveway from number of people that would be 1 Aqueduct Rd. and would then due to people breaking in. 1 proceed to point (B). There they In short, the likelihood of / ~'OUld be checked fat tickets. forced entry is extremely limited / _,. Each person in the vehiCle would because of the phy.sical layout _,. have to have a ticket. If anybody and the security measures set up in the vehicle did not have a by Mr. Kleinkauf. It is obviously (EJ around the circle and back out concert at the Girling Center had a ticket the vehicle would be Chapel. CONCE.R..T AR.EA ticket the vehicle would be sent much more safe to present a r·- on Aqueduct 'Rd. If each person than·. at. the Field House or the · sent to· park in area (C) first and, First A· d & S 't I am ary . TdAl AreA t6o,c~o ;q.ff. / -- PARI{ING ----~1 Ar<.EA , (c) ! ' ~ _j I ' : I when that was full, in area (D). Precautions: Two nurses from L ' The capacity of thelle parking the college staff would be areas is approximately 440 cars. stationed at a first aid station at - ..: - --- ba/bld rvj_re _____ - - - To avoid overcrowding the lots, (E) near the covered pavilion. eye!~\(! 'f&\c< . ' \ \ ' It should be stressed at the outset that this concert was a carefully planned project and that the final proposal, as presented here, was the end result of hours of research by the Social Committee and intensive discussions with the administration: The security pre- cautions are those stipulated by John Kleinkauf, Director of Security and Dean Malloy and conform to the regulations and advice of the Niskayuna Police Department. Most of all, this proposal is one that the Social Committee, an organization that has planned and successfully presented numerous complex events for the entire campus, believes will work and we have done our utmost to plan a successful, safe, and enjoyable day . shuttle busses woulC: bring Twenty portable toilets would be students from Union and rented for the ctowd. Skidmore- to the Girling Center. Conclusions: The Social To get on a bus a student would Committee invites you to draw la.;.d:s ~>{ Co~<.solidcri.W. 1Jiesd E/eclri< Corp· l I I l ,!; have to have a ticket to the your own. concert. Pinkerton Guards would be stationed at all the buildings A • k ;~~: ~~~\:':.~;:~~. ~~·~~~ · men a In Indochina Teach-In; concert area. Two campus ~~;i~:~~ ::t~n\~~~~~sc~::r~: Activism And Apathy At Union emergency. The entire security Schedule- Students would begin to arrive about 4:00 p.m. Between 4:00 and 8:00 booths, exhibits, and games would be open and food would be sold by Saga. Any group of students could present an exhibit or a booth. Beer would not be sold because of local regulations. The area would, in general, be open to any informal activity· the students desire. At 8:00 p.m. Stanley Kubrick's '2001: A Space Odyssey' would be presented by Film Haps in conjunction with the Social Committee. At the conclusion of the film, the Social Committee would present The Band. The concert would be over by 1:00 a.m., in accordance with local regulations, and that would complete the day's activities. Tickets- All tickets would be sold in advance. They would go on sale three weeks before the concert for Union and Skidmore students and two weeks before for all other area schools. A college l.D. would be required to purchase tickets and the limit operation would be run from the by GARY LEIDERMAN Clubhouse where a telephcme On Wednesday morning there and intercom would be available. was a sparsely attended teach-in The general physical layout of on \Amerika in Indochina.\ the area is perhaps the best Despite the fact that it was only security precaution. Dense woods Monday night when this event line either side of the driveway was first publicized, the amount preventing access to the concert of publicity was more than area. At the\ same time the adequate, as most dotms were wooded areas rise 50 feet ·from flooded with signs, and Tuesday's Aqueduct to the parking areas. A- Concordiensis announced the group of people from WR UC, teach-in. Rather than dealing scouting for possible FM with what I did or did not learn, antenna locations at the Girling I'd like to examine activism and Center, were unable to walk apathy at Union in 1971. more than 25 feet into the woods At one point, I counted 32 this Fall. people in Memorial Chapel, and The back of the Girling Center it would be generous to say there is bounded by a standard cyclone were 75 people in attendance at fence with a ba·rbed wire top. The one time or another. People area behind and to the sides of drifted in and out, and I must the fence is heavily wooded and admit that the dialogue wasn't the nearest roads are always the most intriguing or approximately a mile away at the entertaining of dialogues by any entrance to the Consolidated means. Diesel factory. The field itself is · The question is, .. What approximately 160,000 square happened to all the activists of feet in area. Allowing ten feet for the spring of 1970? Is it really each person (more than fire apathy? Is it a great sense of regulations allow) the field could futility involved with trying to hold 16,000 people. The change this goddamned kountry? maximum number of tickets that Or are students opposed to the Social Committee proposed campus radicalism?\ Half of the publicity signs I posted in West College (one per James Bond Ages, Double Bill Is Debilitating by LAWRENCE BREAVMAN I come to laugh at James high. The formula of Bond and Bond, not to praise him. The women seems to be that the first man who stood at the epitome of woman works for our side and our high school sexual fantasies dies half-way through the film; has been reduced by time to a the second woman works for dirty old man with an Spectre and dies some violent · embarrassing weakness for puns. death; the third love is present at On a recent T.V. mevie, Herschel the final fade-out. After smirking Bernardi got as much action in through two Bond films, your an hour-and-a-half as Bond got conscience may make you take a in two films, and Bernardi did member of Woman's Liberation not have to run around as much. . to lunch. The empathy or envy between However, the main thrust of Bond and the audience is gone; the films \Thunderball\ and Spectre is doing things I want to \You Only Live Twice\ is rtot to do. They smuggle drugs, extort excite the libido, but to provide 100 billion dollars from the U.S. various, absurd encounters with and Great Britain, and they go vicarious violence. Of course 007 not see manned space flights a'S has immunity, so there is no holy. Bond, on the other hand, is suspense; the viewer merely waits ostensibly risking his neck for his for the explosion of ·expensive country, something I'm devoting machines or the shooting, a good deal of time to prevent. stabbing, poisoning, and Bond is good friends with CIA exploding of people. So many agents; I hoped through scenes of Bond obviously employ \ThlJnderball\ that the CIA a double, so the effect becomes agent would get killed. some grotesque ballet of violence For that matter, high ranking ·and bleeding bodies. men never get killed in the Bond Sean Connery portrays the films; but the mortality, rate of speaking James Bond; the action female ;:tgents is unbelievably James Bond receives no credit. Connery is more silly than cool, and obviously bored. He is intelligent enough to know that the real stars of the film are the special effects men, who keep their great models at just the right places to explode with pleasing authenticity. The films were directed by two different men, but the style betweer the two films is indistinguishable. The editting, which establis!'tes the rhythm and directs ')Ur attention, is probably done by the producers. The action scenes are surely conceived, and the editting is fast- pac;:ed and knowing. The scenes that deal with the exposition are tackily done, as if they were meaningless. Seeing the two films h nne of the most exhausting aftert1o0ns I have spent in years. The continual series of explosions, killings, and war-games numbs the viewer into submission. Rather than excite violence, it is doubtful any viewer would have the strength ·to cut a sandwich. wing} that Monday night had disappeared THE NEXT MORNING! Who would remove this information from a bulletin board but someone opposed to such acti.vity. nice. Everyone knew exactly how and when we invaded Cambodia. I get the \>1bration that people now don't know the only two differences between Cambodia and Laos: Firstly, Nikson hasn't announced the expansion into Laos, and secondly, the claim by your .government is that no U.S. ground troops are involved, which is exceedingly trivia!. As to the rumor I've heard that this year's freshman class is far more conservative than any other class in attendance at Union, it struck me that fully half of the teach-in attendants were from the class of '74. Thus, it's not the freshies that are any more apathetic than the rest of us, but the 98% of this whole student body that apparently was uninterested in this anti-war activity. Additionally, there were quite a few females at the chapel, Which may indicate to you apathists that there is more to anti-war sentiments than evading the draft and saving your own neck. The fraterniti~s are hopeless, as there was nary a brother to be seen that Wednesday morning, nor were any of the frosh that I saw pledges (future brothers). However, also missing were many of the Silliman Hall activists from the spring. Do these ex-activists sense the futility of all their seemingly fruitless labors of May, 1970'! But I should mention that the apathy is not unique at Union, and the difficulty in doing anything cool like staging sit-ins or having marches on G.E. is~ best illustrated by pointing to the 200-odd SUNY students who invaded the capital building that very same Wednesday. Incidentally, 12,000 students attend SUNY. I confess that I, too, would have left the teach-in before its merciful conclusion at 12:.30, except for my wish to know or help shape any future activism. My appetite was only teased by Evan Stark's vague reference, almost an afterthought, to a treaty being drawn up in Ann Arbor, Michigan, which will be presented for signing by the go\·ernment at a mass sit-in in Washington, D.C. on May 4, a year after Kent State's shootings. I guess that's what we \radicals\ seek mass action that has potential to end war. But, there's the additional problem that Tricky Dicky Nikson has become too shrewd 'to make bullshit speeches that lead to angry, unifjed college strike.s, marches, and protests, especially when the weather is I am one disillusioned person. Hami.lton Hill Food CO-OP In a meeting last Monda) night, a group of concerned students discussed plans for a Hamilton Hill Food Co-op. The aim of such a cooperative food plan would he to make food available to the Hamilton Hill area of Schenectady at wholesale prices. The group of student:-. ultimately seeks community involvement in a store to be run hy a local manager, chosen from a number of active and interested community leade.rs. Among the activities planned by the student group i~ canvassing the neighborhood ol Hamilton Hill for ideas concerning feasibility, mechanics. and details for the organi.ration of a wholesale food market. which would operate at no prolit. In addition, tht:) seek to raise money for early financial :-.upport and to recruit people to dean and paint the store 111 preparation for the ultimate inception of the plan. A benefit concert with a $1.00 minimum donation will he hdd on Thursday, Feb. I!\, at lUO p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Basically. thing:-. are :-,till in the planning stage, and the gn:ate~t need is for :-.tudcnt pu rticipation in the preliminarv .>rgani;auonal iobs to make the pluri pm.-,ihlc. Seniors may o·rder graduation announcements now. in the Student Activities Office. The Deadline, incorrectly printed in the last issue, is March 19. * * * * Le Cercle Francais rs sponsoring the documentary films \Avec Andre Gide\ and \Palais de Luxembourg\ on Tuesday, February 16, at 4:3G p.m. in SSOI6.

• f ~' • l~ f . .. ;~ ' • \' I ..... , ... c ... . ·• .#- ... 6 I . \\ ·I \ II , I t I \\ 'l \ c Social Committee Presents Pop Culture Week Plans CONCORDIENS!S, FEB. 12, 1971 PAGE 5 The Girling Center Concert, Sun., May 9, was planned as the culmination of Pop Culture Week, May 2-9. The concert was initiated as an opportunity for Union and other local college students to enjoy a day in the sun with plenty of room in a beautiful natural surrounding. The day's activities would not only include examples of local arts and crafts, but would also give the students a sample of the music of one of America's best groups and the filmmaking of a superior American film director. It should be stressed at the outset that this concert wa~ a carefully planned project and that the final proposal. as presented !,:.:re, was the end result of hours of research by the Social Committee and intensive discussions \\ith the would be four tickets per person. Tickets would cost $5.00 and would include admission to the Girting Center, the movie, and the concert. Security- The sole entrance to the Girting Center i~ the long driveway (A). \' ehich:s would enter the driveway from Aqueduct Rd. and would then proceed to point ( Bl. There the~ ~' ould be checked for tickeb. Each person in the \chicle \\ ould have to ha\e a ticket. If anyhod: in the vehicle did not have a ticket the whicle \\ould he sent around the circlt! and hack out on Aqueduct Rd. If each per~on had a ticket the \ ehicle \\ ould he sent to park in area (C) first and. when that \\as full, in area (D). The capacit~ of these parking areas is approximately 440 cars. To avoid overcrowding the lots. shuttle busses woulcl bring students from Union and to sell was 5,000. It is important to remembe. that anybody who managed tc break into the concert area would not he breaking into a \Ulnerahle building such as the Field House. :\o fin: ha;ard could result from an excess numhcr of people that would be due to people breaking in. In short. the likelihood ot forced entn i~ extremelv limited becau~e or' the physic,;! b:out and the ~ccurit) measures set up by !\1r. Kleinkaul. It is oh\Iouslv much more safe to pn:sent ~ r concert at the Ciirling Center than at tlw Field House or the Chapel. First Aid & Sanitary Precautions: T\\o nurse~ from the college ~tall would he l statiOned at a first aid station at (F) ncar the cmered pa\ilion. 1\\cnt~ porta hie toilets \\ ould be rented for the cro\\d. Conclusions: The Socia 1 Committee inYite~ you to dra\1- ) our O\\ n. / (E) I C OtvCO<.T fiR FA - _·] la,..a ~ c{ (Ofii50ftdcr~d TJti?5f/ E /ecfric Corp // ,:J L.... ·-1~or· ;. !I \. :· \' ../ . ~· 1.., (_j.; •·Y!..t ~j,. _:\ .:..~ , _. 1 . ~ .., f!lr. .• A,~ A f.: A (c) .J administration. The security pre- cautions are those stipulated by john KleinkauL Director of Security and Dean Malloy and conform to the regulations and advice of the Niskayuna Police Department. Most of all. this proposal is one that the Social Committee, an organiz.ation that has planned and successfully presented numerous complex events for the entire campus. believes will work and we have done our utmost to plan a successful. safe, and enjoyable day. Skidmore to the Gtrling Center. To get on a bus a student would have to have a ticket to the concert. Pinkerton Guards \\ o uld he stationed at all the buildings in the Center area and twentv guards would he available in the concert area. Two campus policemen with a campus patrol car would be on hand in case of emergency. The entire security operation would be run from the Clubhouse where a telephone and intercom would be available. Amerika In Indochina Teach-In; Activism And Apathy At Union Schedule- Students would begin to arrive about 4:00 p.m. Between 4:00 and 8:00 booths. exhibits, and games would be open and food would be sold by Saga. Any group of students could present an exhibit or a booth. Beer would not be sold because of local regulations. The area would, in general, be open to any informal activity the students desire. At 8:00 p.m. Stanley Kubrick's '2001: A Space Odyssey' would be presented by Film Haps in conjunction with the Social Committee. At the conclusion of the film, the Social Committee would present The Band. The concert would be over by I :00 a.m., in accordance with local regulations, and that would complete the day's activities. Tickets- All tickets would be sold in advance. They would go on sale three weeks before the concert for Union and Skidmore students and two weeks before for all other area schools. A college I.D. would be required to purchase tickets and the limit The general physical layout of the area is perhaps the best security precaution. Dense woods line either side of the driveway preventing access to the concert area. At the same time the wooded areas rise 50 feet from Aqueduct to the parking areas. A group of people from WR UC. scouting for possible FM antenna locations at the Girling Center, were unable to walk more than 25 feet into the woods this Fall. The back of the Girling Center is bounded by a standard cyclone fence with a barbed wire top. The area behind and to the sides of the fence is heavily wooded and the nearest roads are approximately a mile away at the entrance to the Consolidated Diesel factory. The field itself is approximately 160,000 square feet in area. Allowing ten feet for each person (more than fire regulations allow) the field could hold 16,000 people. The maximum number of tickets that the Social Committee proposed by GARY LEIDERMAN On Wednesday morning there was a sparsely attended teach-in on \Amerika in Indochina.\ Despite the fact that it was onh· Monday night when this event was first publicized, the amount of publicity was more than adequate, as most dorms were flooded with signs, and Tuesday's Concordiensis announced the teach-in. Rather than dealing with what I did or did not learn, I'd like to examine activism and apathy at Union in I 971. At one point, I counted 32 people in Memorial Chapel, and it would be generous to say there were 75 people in attendance at one time or another. People drifted in and out, and I must admit that the dialogue wasn't alway~ the most intriguing or entertaining of dialogues by any means. The question is, \What happened to all the activists of the spring of 1970? Is it really apathy? Is it a great sense of futility involved with trying to change this goddamned kountry? Or are students opposed to campus rad ica I ism?\ Half of the publicity signs I posted in West College (one per James Bond Ages, Double Bill Is Debilitating by LAWRENCE BREAVMAN I come to laugh at James Bond, not to praise him. The man who stood at the epitome of our high school sexual fantasies has been reduced by time to a dirty old man with an embarrassing weakness for puns. On a recent T.V. movie, Herschel Bernardi got as much action in an hour-and-a-half as Bond got in two films, and Bernardi did not have to run around as much. The empathy or envy between Bond and the audience is gone; Spectre is doing things I want to do. They smuggle drugs, extort 100 billion dollars from the U.S. and Great Britain, and they do not see manned space flights as holy. Bond, on the other hand, is ostensibly risking his neck for his country. something I'm devoting a good deal of time to prevent. Bond is good friends with CIA agents~ I hoped through \Thunderball\ that the CIA agent would get killed. For that matter, high ranking men never get killed in the Bond films; but the mortality rate of female ageng ts unbelievably high. The formula of Bond and women seems to be that the first woman works for our side and dies half-way through the film; the second woman works for Spectre and dies some \'iolent death; the third love is present at the final fade-out. After smirking through two Bond films, your conscience may make you take a member of Woman's Liberation to lunch. However, the main thrust of the films \Thunderball\ and \You Only Live Twice\ is not to excite the libido, but to provide various, absurd encounters with vicarious violence. Of course 007 has immunity, so there is no suspense; the viewer merely waits for the explosion of expensive machines or the shooting. stabbing, roisoning, and exploding of people. So many scenes of Bond obviously employ a double. so the effect becomes some grotesque ballet of violence and bleeding bodies. Scan Connery portrays the speaking James Bond; the action James Bond receives no credit. Connery is more silly than cool, and obviously bored. He i~ intelligent enough to know that the real stars of the film are the special effects men, who keep their great models at just the right places to explode with pleasing authenticity. The films were directed by two different men, hut the style betweer the two film!> i> indistinguishable. The editting. which establis1es the rhvthm and directs '1Ur attention, is\ probably done by the producers. ·1 he action scene; are sure h con.cei\ed, and the editting io la>t- paced and knowing. The ~cene~ that deal with the exposi.tion arc tackily done. a, if thev IAen: meaningless. - Seeing the two film; i~ <lllL\ \I the most exhau~ting '1fterr1o<>m I have opcnt in yearo. lhe continual series of explosion;.. killing!>, and war-games numbs the viewer into ,u hmi,sion. Rather than excl!e violence, it Is doubtful anv \icwcr would ha\e the strength to cut a sandwich. wing) that Monday night had disappeared THE ;\!E.\ I MORNING! Who would remo\e this information from a bulletin board hut someone opposed to such activity. As to the rumor I've heard that this year's freshman class is L1r more conservative than anv other class in attendance at U ~ion, it struck me that fully half of the teach-in attendants were from the class of '74. Thus, it's not the freshies that are anv more apathetic than the rest of us, hut the 98% of this whole ~wdcnt body that apparently was uninterested in this ~nti-war activity. Additionally, there were quite a few females at the chapel. which may indicate to vou apathists that there is more. to anti-war sentiments than evading the draft and saving your own neck. The fraternities are hopeles:;, as there was nary a brother to he seen that Wednesday morning. nor were any of the frosh that I saw pledges (future brothers). However, also missing were many of the Silliman Hall activists from the spring. Do these ex-activists sense the futilitv of all their seemingly fruitit<s labors of May, 1970? But I should mention that the apathy is not unique at Union. and the difficulty in doin~ anything cool like staging sit-in~ or having marches on G.E. i~ best illustrated by pointing to the 200-odd SUJ'<Y students \1-ho invaded the capital building that \ery same Wednc~da\. Incidentally, 12,000 ~tude n.t>. attend SUl\iY. I confess that I. too. \\ould ha\e left the teach-in before ih merciful conclusion at 12:30. except for my wish to know or help shape any future acti\ism. My appetite \\-as onh teased h\ han Stark's \ague\ referenc~. almost an afterthought. to a treaty being drawn up in Ann Arbor. Michigan. \\ hich \\ill he presented for ~tgning h~ the ~•Jil'rnmcnt at a mas~ sit-in 111 Wa,hrngton. D.C. on Ma\ ..t. a \<:ar ;tltt:r Kent State\ 'hooimr2' l gue'' that', \\hat ·,,L\ \radicah\ ..,cck mas~ .Jet tPn that has potenttal to end '-~<ar. But. there\ the addittt>nal nice. heryone knt:\\ t'\al'tl\ ho\1 and \\hen \\e imuded Camhodia. I get the \rrration that peopk nolA don't kn(l\\ the on!\ t\\n differences bet\\een Can;hodia and Laos: Ftrstlv. !';ibon hasn't announced the t:Xpansion into l.am •. and serondly. the claim by your gmernment is that no t:.S. ground troops are lll\nhed. \1-hich i~ exceedingly t ri\ ia!. I am one disillusioned person. Hamilton Hill Food CO-OP In a meeting la~t Mont..la\ night, a group ol l'Ollccrned students di~cussed rlam fnr .l Hamilton Hill Food Co-op. The aim of such a cooperati\e l()()d plan would he to make foml availahle to the Hamilto11 Hill area of Schcneclath at \\bole-.ak price;.. !'he group of studenh ultimately seeks communit\ tn\olvemcnt in a ~torL' to he ru;1 by a local manager. chosL'l1 lrorn a number of actt\c and intLTested community leaders. Among the acti\tties plannc·d hy the -.tudent group r' t.:amasstng the llL'Ighhorhood of Hamilton Hill lor idea ... mncernmg !ea~thilit~. mechanic .... and details lor the urganllatton ol a 1Ahole!-.alc lood marh·t. 1\hich >Aould operate at no profit In addition. the~ ~eek to r.mc monc::- I or carl~ I mancial 'urport and to recruit peopk :n clean and patnt the \lllft' tn preparation lor· the ultrmatt' incept ton of the plan .. \ hen,·t rt Wlll'L'rt \\lth d ) 1.00 llllllllllll fll donation \\tll he hc·ld 1111 I hur ... da:.. hh I X. <II ·' ~() r, Ill in :Yiemorral Ch<tpt·l Ba!-.lGt!I:-. !hill)!' dtc· '!til 111 the plannmg \tagc .. rnd the· :.:rc\.llL''I need i' lor ...rudt'lll p.rrli:IJ,.III<lll m the prt.'ltmi nan •r :.:.rrr;, .11 r, •rul ttd\l ... t!llll;r\.-v t ht· r~i.rrr ·f'·\''h:: Senior~ ma~ ,,rder ).!r.tdu.ttillll announcement... liP\\. rn the Student ·\ctr\ rtrc' ( )Jir,·,· I hL· Dcadlme. t!h'Ortt'L'til J'Irr;tcd tll the la~t t-,..,uc. I'- \1aiL'h !cJ * .. • problem that Inch !lick\ \:ikson has hec,H11c tt;tl -.hrn1d to make hullshit srct:ches tllilt lead to angn. tmtl ied L'llllcl!t' strikes, marL·hcs. and prote ... i-.. especially when the 1\eather r... Cncle r ,l!}l. ·'I' I' ~ron;,onng the dt't'lllllL'lll.l n films \'A\et· ·\ndrc (lllk\ .1n~l \'Palat\ de I ll\L'tnhPur r.:\ llll 1ue~da). h:hru,m It>. ,;1 -+ .. ~!' p m in \SOlt1

PAGE6 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 12, 1971 RIGHT ON~ KO·ZOL ••• Continuedjrom Pagel , and indoctrinated,\ certification- issuance of diploma, training in the basic skills such as math and reading, and finally, education \in its true sense of thinking, wondering, questioning.\ l'n terms of political indoctrination, Kozol said that the road of the United States (in foreign and dome~tic policy) is always depicted as being a benign one; never are there any indications that the goal of our foreign policy is profit.- In his wnrds, '1 he Pan American Highway was not built so the Peruviam could go to Howard Johnson's, it was built so United Fruit could ship bananas to Boston at lower costs.\ Ho we ve r. h e sa i d t h e indoctrinathn of chauvinism is far less damaging than the \neutralization of truth.\ \We have been anaesthetized and muted by the educational process, to the extent that, given all the fact~, it would he d.ifficult to judge a situation reliably.\ The schools, Kozol charged, give the students a containerized plan of labeling in which issues can be defined. examined and discussed hut arc almost always understated, and never really understood. f-urthermore, Kozol asserted that \it is difficult for a school student to say 'no'. Expression of positive negation is defined hy the schools as treason.\ He typified the school teacher's response to disagreement as Continued, Division 1 Continuedfr.mn PaRe I •••• loq in the issue of confidentiality or il the committee stated that its :1roccd ures were under review. Other speakers suggested that !acuity members could consider the option of withholding return ''' their contract letters for next 1eat until the last possible mom~nt a~ a gesture of their displea:-.un: '-\ith the committee 'ct-up. Proles~or Murphy added that thme dissatisfied with the present wmmittce system might not a~k \if thi:-. was in any way rebted to the composition of the commit tee. \Vhich contains two llll...mhers or the administration. Wh} tltlt. he said, \Have them (the aJministration) give us a ~rice of the pie and let us (the !acuity) cut it up.\ I· o II o ~~ i n g t h i s I e n g t h y discussion the faculty Hlted to for\\ard the invitation to Dean Palmer. usking the committee to appear \lithin two weeks, and tahlt.:d the Peterson motion for possihk· consideration at a future date. In oth~r husiness the Division endorsed the propo.sals of Messr~. Stinehack and Allen (hoth of English) that the junior ~ear comp eds in Contemporary Fdtu:ation the) arc currently offering he marked on a pass-fail basis. Additionally. the Division cndorscd some form of the split three calendar system: that which prmidcs for school to begin the \\eck after Labor Day. The Di\ i~ion also expressed ~ent imt•nt in lin or of a two week hrcak. hct~>.ecn winter and spring terms although they did not bind their Faculty Council reprc:-.cnt<tti\ es to \ ote for thi8. Further. the Division voted 15- 3 that an instructor he permitted to dcr·idc without consultation \\tth th~ Dean whether or not a final c\am '>hould he gi{en in an) !!ivcn cour ... e. l.mtl~. on a motion b~ Mr. Stineback the Division endor~cd the idea that either the Dean or the instructor may grant an inmrnplcte in a cour~e and that neither one of these could stipulate t h\t the incomplete had t11 he lll.ilk up hcfore the filth \\t:ck ol the nc\t term. encompassing such statements as \Let\ not break things down before we can build up alternatives,\ and \Its very well to criticize the book, but a lot of people worked a long time to write it.\ Kozol also commented that when considering tneaningful political events, public scj10ol mrrictlla dictate examining them at the lowest possible level, considering the literal interpretation. The teacher, he explained, seeks moderation ·~ assuming this to be the greatest degree of truth. \Never in high school ·- although it happens often in college - are we told to be more extreme in a point of view... What moderation really means is, restate it as if you. mean it less and then it will be true.\ Another fault cited by Kozol is that students are fooled into believing that they have been exposed to a wide spectrum of views after studying articles in Time, Life and U.S. News and World Report, all representing the administration viewpoint, and the kids believe they are really drawing conclusions. \It's called the discovery method, but the teacher has already decided what the students will discover.\ Speaking on educational reform, Kozol said the \myth of silent progress\ is evident in the style of teaching. The myth is that if something is bad and you forget it for a while, it must be gettipg better. \There is a tremendous fairh in progress among those who are not in pain,\ he added__ and he characterized this as the \stupid mindless optimism of complacency.\ These are the people, he said who ask how much things have improved, not if things have actually improved at aU. He went on to emphasize the danger in innovative movements in the schools which aim \to loosen things. up a little bi.t, to unscrew the desks and get longhaired teachers.\ Such a plan, Kozol charged, would lead to ecstasy, spontaneous joy and no meaningful change. People are seduced, said Kozol, into believing that we don't have to pay a price and that everything will be easy. \Nothing can be accomplished without justice, ethics and fair play... The solution is n.ot through euphoria... euphoria is not enough.\ Kozol concluded by saying that \things are still bad in the public schools and if it's treasonous to feel that way, we must he subversive. I have to pay a price and I hope tha.t I have the courage to do it.\ ·~--------------------~--------~----------------------------~-- with ., • ''h I . '' a oe·ln·one that really counts •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . ' • . ••a• ••• •• • • •• •• • • • • 0 • : . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • ·-. '· i . 'J ~· I J l. ,, . I fit... . j ( .. , j • •

• • • • 'J t-; Tough Defense Helps Freshmen Hoopers Win 63-52 Ove.r RP·I by MARTY BERMAN Union's fre$hmen hoopsters avenged,:_their only. loss of the season Wednesday night when they defeated RPI 63-52 in a lackluster game. RPl had beaten the Dutchmen in a close low-scoring contest ·611 Jan. 13 at the Engineers' court. The Garnet were flat that night, having played four games in six nights. The Dutchmen wen~ up for t:he rematch but never could really put the game away. RPI played a tough man-to•man defense that ke.pt the score down, hut the Engineers couldn't contain BHI Carmody. Cat;mody, who had been in somewhat ofa scoring slump the last few games, broke out for 17 points in the first half,. including · Union;s last eight tallies in the stanza. His two foul shots and fast- · break layup in the waning seconds. ofthe first half gave the Garnet a ten point spread. . · RPI stayed dose in the sec.ond half behind the shooting and overall play of guard Tom Gorman. fl.e appeared to be the only player with any measurable amount of talent on the Engineer squad. For Union, Carmody finished the game with 21 points, disdaining the •'forced\ shot in the second half. AI Westbrook and Tom Combs eacfrhad twelve markers and Herb Reichenbach added ten. The Garnet defense was especially tough in allowing highscoring RPI mily 52 points. the Engineers' Tom Juknis had been averaging 20.3 points per game, best in the T ri-Cities area. Juknis obviously let the gobbling \turkey\ calls get to him as he only hit for 14 points, most of which came when the game was iQ its final minutes. Gorman's 17 points was somewhat below his usual norm of 18.8 but he wasn't \stopped\ by any standards. Combs tied Reichenbach ·for the rebounding lead with nine, as Union owned the broads for the first time in a long while. The , taller Engineers just didn't seem to battle that much underneath. Combs did. a fine job on RPI's 6~8 center Ed Dunn, tying him in rebounds and holding him to six points total for the night. Union should have no trouble this weekend as they put their seven game winning streak and overall H-1 record on the line against Albany Pharmacy. , This reporter happened to have the opportunity to see Pharmacy go at it against Schenectady Community College earlier this year. Albany was slow, awkward. and without a ballhandler, Union's press should do devastation, and Coach Bill Sqmlon's bench should see plenty of action. Next Tuesday night the Garnet and Grey go up against tough Williams frosh at Williamstown, Massachusetts, in a contest that should prove to be a critical test for the Dutchmen. More On- Senate Continued/rom Page 1 there is a faculty committee established to deal with such problems. There was a great deal of discussion, particu Jar I y concerning the adverse effects these actions could possibly have in terms of the students. The question seems to concern the direction the college· will take during the next few years, and is one which President Martin will deal with at next week's meeting. CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 12, 1971 PAGE 7 Meserole At Large HBCOPAW\ Magic Word In· Christians- Lions Match by MIKE MESSEROLE Bob Rydings, the irrepressible Dutchman, brought his cannon to the Alumni Gym last Wednesday to take on the Colgate wrestling team. Equipped with the magic word of the afternoon, \BCOPA W\ (which, loosely translated, obviously means \beat Colgate on points\) the wooden-shoed wild man was leading the Garnet cheering with his patented 'ba~ba­ ba's and 'ga-ga.,ga-ga's.' · Alumni · Gym, \The Pit,\ started filling up a half hour before the match was scheduled to begin, By the time the undefeated Union squad took the floor, the stands were packed, spectators ringed the mat, and the upper deck mezzanine was crawling with blood-thirsty patrons sitting on garbage cans, leaning over the railings and hanging from the rafters. These folks would warm the cockles of any Roman emperor's heart. Christians and lions stuff, great. No sooner had 118-Ib frosh phenom AI Calabro taken the mat, than the mezzanine maniacs had their thumbs down. Pass the grapes. Although sporting much .spiffier wrestling togs than Calabro, the Colgate Christian never had a chance (even if his name was Moskowitz). The second period wasn't half over before Calabro, who had seven straight pins on the line, brought the Colosseum to its feet screaming \PIN!\ and made it eight in a row. Coach Gerry Everling folded his hands behind his neck and tilted back in his folding chair as far as modem science would allow. Len Solomon and Mark Zullo switched weight classes and fo !lowed with favorable decisions, Zullo like Calabro remaining unbeaten, and Union led, ll-0. Ba-ba-ba-ba! But then trouble started in the middle of the G;:trnet line-up. Forfeiting the 142-lb class, Union gave Colgate a quick five points. Colgate strongman Rich Koenig then outpointed Bill Benedict, who gameiy resisted an opposttwn pin in the 18-7 mismatch. Gary Gurney salvaged a tie at 158 pounds, but Tracy Rich ran out 'of gas and determination early in his 167-lb match and all of sudden, the pagans in the mezzanine realized the score was tied at 13-13. With three weight classes remaining, Union needed two decisions to take it. So did Colgate. Light haired, black booted Pat Wardell got half the job done, outpointing his man 12· 6. Captain Gary Morris then insured his team's eighth victory of the season, shutting out his opponent by a 5,.() margin. All over! Not a chance, for the appreciative crowd the .spectacle was on\y half over as their darling, undefeated, Freshman heavyweight. Howie Benedict, the hero of Kings Paint, stepped into the ring, splendid in the baddest, blackest headgear in the circuit. \Show'em Howie!\ Benedict's opposite number was Colgate's pride and JOY Jim Locke, who also carried an unbeaten slate •into battle with him, only against the likes of Navy, Princeton, and East Stroudsburg. Locke appeared bigger and more experienced than Howie, but Benedict. knewn for his energy saving warm-ups, was unimpressed and tried to outsmoke Locke from the start. Trading grunts, bear hugs, and missed oeportunities the giants could get no further than a 1-1 deadlock in their power struggle. If there was victory, it came after the match when Howie was seen on the bench seated in exhaustion, and Locke was kneeling over in pain surrounded by his teammates. The Romans had been satisfied and Union had won another one, this time by 21-15. BCOP A W! Bob was right again. ba-ba-ba-t.a. WRUC Airs Hoop Contest WRUC-640 will broadcast the live play-by-play of the Union- Williams basketball game on Tuesday night, when the Garnet hoopsters take to the court against the tough Ephmen seeking to improve upon their excellent 16-2 record . The broadcast will begin at 8:00 p.m.. with Henry Fein handling the play-by-play chore~ and Bill Holleran providing the color commentary . WRUC will also beam the season finale bL'l ween Union and Hamilton back to the campu!>. WE CARRY A FULL LINE OF GROCERIES, MEATS, BEVERAGES, ASSORTED SNACK ITEMS, ETC . MEMBER BUY-RITE STORES OPEN 8 A.M. TILL 10 P.M. 7 DAYS A WEEK session concerning the problems of the faculty in light of the new systems of contracts and tenur:e announced by President Martin last Week. Professors prosper (Economics), Martin (Chemis- try), Roulier (Math), and Leach (Math) were present to discuss the systems and answer ' questions. Essential1y, tht: main points concern· the limit placed on tenured faculty a max.imum of 60% on a departmental basis; the change to one year as 'opposed to two year contracts for faculty without tenure; and the size of the average increment in salary offered this year - · 4%, in contrast to a 6% increase in t~ cost of living. Among the chief concerns of the faculty which seem to unite them with the students is the fact that they weren't consulted before the decision was made, even though Skaters Blast Hoosac 8-5 . . WITH THIS COUPON FREE SODA & SALAD Hoop Record Second Best Union's basketball win over RPl on Tuesday gave the Garnet cagers a phenomenal 16 ... 2 record, the most hoop wins at the College since the 1925-26 season when another_ standout Dutchmen squad finished the slate with a 174 mark. Both losses this season have come on shots at the· buzzer as Harpur nipped the Garnet 56-54 in the season's opener and Wesleyan stopped a 1 O•game Union winning streak with a 71- 70 win. There will be a meeting of PYE this Monday, February 15, at 4:30 p.m. in the Social Sciences Lounge. All members are requested to attend. After Five Losses In Row The Union hockey club scored its first win in nearly two years on January 30 by crushing The Hoosac School 8-5 in Bennington, Vertnont. Despite a glaring lack of practice time, the icers demonstrated hustle and teamwork as they dominated two of the three ·periods under a plastic bubble-type rink before about 100 fans. The Dutchmen dropped all :four of their games last season, and lost their opener this winter to the Lenox School, 9-5. • . The Garnet got off to a quick start in the first period, as Tom Goss opened the scoring early in . the stanza. Chris O'Neill then began a scoring spree of four goals by netting three scores in a row. Paul Martini added his first go&l .of the season followed closely by Goss' fourth of the year. Hoosac squeaked one tally past ne:minder Rick Ohler and the first stanza ended 6-1. During the second period Hoosac came alive and pl'essured the Garnet. Only hard forechecking and backchecking salvaged a 6-5 second period edge for Union. ihe line of O'Neill, Brati Hastings, and Goss came back in the final period and nearly skated Hoosac off the ice. Constant pressure in the offensive zone tired the prep school skaters, and O'Neill and Emerson Martin scored to crush Hoosac's hopes. The pucksters have a rematch against Hoosac on Feb. 20 at Hoosac. The following Wednesday Union meets the traditionally tough Hamilton J.V. in Clinton, N.Y. \For three Generations.' Those Who Know ... Have been recommending - 10 STATE ST. With Purchase of Submarine or Spaghetti DINNER EAT IN OR OUT Expires Feb. 28, 1971 Schenectady HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER '\l Union Graduates in Graubart Family•• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR't'

PAGE 8 CONCORDIENS/S, FEB. 12, 1971 Concordy Spofts Cagers Avenge LaSt Year's Loss To RPI by MARK SHUGOLL The Union College basketball team merely went through the motions on Wednesday m posting their sixth straight win and sixteenth in I 8 games, 7 4-61 at the expense of arch rival R.P.I. The sluggish and poorly played game did little to excite another capacity crowd that filled Memorial Fieldhouse. ·as two consecutive steals by Tedisco and a tip-in by Geoff Walker put Union on the plus side of a 46-38 count. But the Engineers kept battling back and drew to within a point at 50-49 with 9:50 to play. With the Garnet leading 60-54, Mike Doyle connected on a three point play to up the lead to 63-54 and at the same time fouled out R.P.I.'s high scorer Tom Neufer. Neufer drew his fifth personal with 3:10 to play after having tallied 18 points. In the last three minutes the closest the Engineers could get was within six points. The margin grew to 1.3 points as R.P .I. was forced to foul to gain possession of the . ball. Union struck nine times from the free throw stripe in the final three minutes. Tedisco led aU scorers with 21 points, including 13 of 15 from the foul line. Walker, who has been playing extraordinary baH of late both offensively, defensively, and off the boards, added a :personal high of 19 points and a game high of 10 rebounds. Tom Bacher and Mike Doyle chipped in 12 points each and Dave Shames 10 as all five starters tallied in double figures for the first time this year. Scott Kitpatrick tied Neufer for R.P.I. scoring honors with 18 points. The Engineers, who had won six of their last eight games, sent visions of an upset dancing through the heads of their fans by racing off to a 12-4 lead. Th5: Gamet managed a tie at 17 ali, but did not take the lead until just under seven minutes were left in the period. Mats' 21-15 Triumph Over Colgate Ups Mark To 8-0 Coach Walters played his five starters all the way. However, over the weekend Walters got excellent help from his bench, especially in the persons of Rein Eichinger and Jim Bolz. The game seemed to typify the tum around in Union basketball fortunes this year. The Garnet are headed to the best hoop season ever at the school, and just completed one of the biggest basketball weekends in Union history with wins over Rochester and Paq:. Jim Tedisco stole an R.P.I. pass and beautifully fed Mike Doyle to send Union ahead for the first time, 32-30. The Dutchmen took the lead for good when Dave Shames hit from way outside with four seconds left in the half to send the Garnet to the locker room with a 36-34 lead. The Dutchmen looked as if they might blow Rensselaer off the court early in the second half by MARK MINDEL The chances for an undefeated wrestling 'Season and the most wins ever for a Union College mat team were greatly improved Wednesday, as the Garnet grapplers surprised a highly touted Colgate squad 21-15, to lift their unblemished dual meet mark to 8-0. With two triangulars and one dual meet left, all tough matches, the Union squad can now set their sights on a 13-0 record which would top the previous best of 10-0 in 1967-68. The Gamet hopped off to a quick 11-0 lead with good wrestling and good strategy. AI Surprising Tracksters . ~ Top Strong Springfield by GREG HAMLIN The Gamet track team made a surprisingly strong showing against such formidable track powers as Lehigh and Springfield last Saturday. The Dutchmen tallied 53 points in the competition, 33 less than winner Lehigh and 24 more than third place finisher Springfield. Williams College, which made a surprise appearance in the meet, placed a distant fourth with 9 points. by clearing 6'--6W'. Pole vaulter Bill Clayton and long jumper Jeff Hirsch were the other Garnet victors. Clayton showed he has finally come into his own with an impressive 12' 6\ vault. Hirsch upset fellow frosh Jerry Cuffy, (who was bothered by a strained hamstring muscle) with a fine leap of 21' 4\. · The cindermen return to action a week from Saturday, when they travel to western New York to compete in the Rochester Relays. Calabro added to his consecutive pinning record with his eighth straight at 3:08. The pin tied him for the most dual meet pins in a season ( 6), and put him one away from the s~ason record including tournaments. Then came the strategy. Both teams had weighed in two wrestlers at 126, but Coach Gerry Everling decided to pit strength against strength. When Colgate did not send their stronger wrestler, Greg Coccari, onto the mat for the 126 match, Everling saved undefeated frosh Mark Zullo for the 134 showdown. The gamble paid off as Len Soloman recorded a 7-0 triumph . at 126 and Zullo out-muscled Coccari, 10-5, for a sweep of the first three matches. · Colgate fought back and tied the match, 13-13, with a forfeit and two decisions sandwiched around a 44 draw with Gary Gurney. With three matches remaining, as in the Kings Point match, Union's big three heavyweights came though once again. Needing two out of three victories, Pat Wardell and Gary Morris took the pressure off Howie Benedict's match, by wrapping the match up with 12- 6, and 7-0 decisions. Wardell's record is now 7-3, while Morris stands 8-2. Benedict's match had the overflow crowd on its feet, Tim McCabe, who had all but written off the indoor season after being felled by pneumonia two months ago, turned in three hard-to-believe performances. In the opening event-the two- mile relay - the soph flash received the baton in third place, more than thirty yards behind the leader. On the gun lap, however, the never-say-die McCabe showed his mettle by making up the deficit and winning by two yards. Committee Begin.s Search For New Football Mentor As if that weren't enough, McCabe wowed the crowd with two more come-from-behind performances. In the 600, he showed his ••sangfroid\ by letting a Springfield runner set the pace for the first 2:X laps and then sprinting past- his tiring opponeni in the last twenty yards. To top off his day, the fiery soph gave anchorman Vince Foste.r a lead he never relinquished in the one mile relay event. The crowd of about 300 was also treated to a thrilling matchup in the high ji!mp. Springfield's Jack Karafotias, one of the best high jumpers in the East, narrowly edged out Dutchman Mike Rich. Karafotias's winning jump was an extraordinary 6'~7%\ while Rich set a new Union standard The Union College faculty committee on athletics has begun the search for a new head football coach, the chairman of the committee said today. Prof. H. Gilbert Harlow, chairman of the Civil · Engineering Department and of the committee, said candidates from both insid~ and outside the present staff would be considered for the post, vacated two weeks ago bY, George Flood. \Obviously we have tyghly qualified, prime candidates here on campus,\ Harlow said. \We also are receiving some applications from others. We want the best man, so we will be looking at all candidates very carefully.\ Flood, who resigned to become offensive backfield coach at the University of Massachusetts, had been head football coach at Union for the past seven seasons. He also served during the past two years as director of athletics. The jobs of coach and athletic director are two distinct ·entities, Harlow indicated, and will not necessarily be refilled by a single individual. The athletic committee, which includes members of the faculty, administration, and student body, as well as representatives of the Physical Education Department, will screen the candidates and make a recommendation to President Harold C. Martin. The Best Wines & Liquors 10% OFF For Students Sol Lipstein LIQUORS, Inc. 827 McClellan St. Schdy. 372-0386 expecting the battle of the year between two unbeaten heavyweights. The throng, however, was left without a mythical champion as the two giants, both weary of each other, wrestled to a 1-1 standoff. Still, Howie ripped the heavier Red Raider to the mat three times in the last period when a take-down would have meant the match, but aU were ruled out of bounds. Along with the team, the three frosh stars Calabro, Zullo, and Benedict will bring their undefeated records to Amherst, Mass., Saturday, where the Garnet will .be challenged by Amherst and undefeated Lpwell Tech. Unlike in past seasons it was evident that the Dutchmen were not up for this tilt with neighbor R.P.I~- In former years, the Union-Rensselaer battle was the high water mark for the Garnet a usually disappointing slate. Union's next foe will be Williams, at Williamstown, Massachusetts, next Tuesday evening. A win over the Ephmen ~11 tie the Garnet as. the winningest team in the school's history. The 1925-1926 hoop squad finished at 17-4. Iantos tic final clearance SPECIAL GROUPS • SPORT COATS Reg. to $69.95 $10· 00 e SUITS Reg. to $125 $20·00 • WINTER COATS Reg. to $60 $12·00 e SWEATERS Reg. to $.35 *7\00 • TIES Reg. to $12.50 $4.50 • DRESS SHIRTS Reg. to $Z5 $6.00 •PANTS Reg. to $11 $2.00 •SHOES Reg. to $40 $10·00 §quirr i'4np 420 State St.- Open Thurs. 'til 9 ALL SALES FINAL <.· (i .. l •I• {l· ~ I f.'

·~ ~- . f ~~ '\ ;c• :i.), j; Q! ~:- .f) ~' ' ~· <.· <£ tl ~ (. .... t:\ ( \ 3' • VOLUME 100 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. FEBRUARY 16, 1971 . ... Price Twenty Cents NUMBER29 Environmentalist, Architect Is Third Davidson Fellow Ian L. McHarg, landscape architect, environmentalist and professor will deliver a series of lectures and discussions during a two-day stay sponsored by the Davidson Fellows. program. McHarg, author , of '\Design With Nature\ .is currently Chairman of the Department of Lan~scape Architecture and City Pla-rining <1-t the University of Pennsylvania. McHarg's agenda while at Union will include a Convocation in Memorial Chapel tonight at 8:30. Tomorrow, McHarg will deliver two lectures in SS 016. At 2:30 p.m. he will engage in informal discussion with Leo J. Hetling, Directo.r of Research and Development, New York State Department of Environmental . Conservation, concerning the issue of \T.he Construction of a Sane Policy to Regulate Man's Effect on The Environment.\ At 8:00 p.m. he will give an informal, illustrated talk on \An Ecological Study for the Twin Cities Metropol'itan Region Minneapolis-St. Paul\. A fifty-year-old native of Scotland, McHarg received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Harvard, as well as honorary degrees from Amherst, and Lewis and Clark Colleges. In his book, published in 1969, McHarg sets forth the premise that people migrating from the cities are destroying the country side they move to by ignoring the beauties of nature as they build. He argues that the assumption that man can build anything, anywhere, and not be hurt is arrogant and suicidal, and that man must learn to design and to live with nature for his own survival. After seven years in service in the British Army during the secondi World War, McHarg came to the United States to study at Harvard .. He organized the ~rst department of llmdscape archttecture and city planning in the United States in 1954.. In addition to his post at Pennsylvania, he is also a partner in· an architectural and planning firm. . McHarg:s system of planning mcludes mtensive study and detailed surveying of the physical and social features of an area to be developed. He- believes that the key to environmental problems is diffusion of the population, but a planned diffusion designed with nature. The Davidson Fellows program was established in 1968 in memory of Carter Davidson, President of the College from 1948 to 1964. Wrestlers Are Undefeated Calabro Breaks. Records Dr. Graham DiscusSes U.S. Health Programs byDAVID CONTI Dr. George Graham, Executive Director .of Ellis Hospital, speaking last evening in Social Sciences 016, discussed the present state and the future of health care in the United States. . Dr .. <?raham, a past President of the American Hospital Asso~tatJ.on, no4!d that health car.e has steadily improved over the by MARK MINDEL \When will he stop?\ is the qu~stion everyone must be asking about frosh wrestltng phenom AI Calabro. On Saturday in a triangular meet against Lowell T~ch and Amherst,. he flap- jacked two ·mote ll8 pounders at 4:23 and I :45, to ·· lift his unblemished record to 12-0 and set five Union. College grappling records in the process. He raised his own consecutive pinning record to I 0, and busted the recbrd for dual meet pins in a $eason (now 8). CalabrQ also smashed the muks for pins in a season including tournaments (now 10), and established new records for team points both in a dual meet season (48) and the season, including tournaments (61). All records were previously set in a 10 match season, but since Union has now completed 10 matches, Calabro will not receive the Ford C. Frick-Roger Mads asterisk for records made in an elongated season. Meanwhile, the other· half of the frosh lightweight duo, Mark Zullo, also pinned two _opponents at 5:18 and 5:11 to remain even with Calabro at 1.2-0. With tbe help · of Zullo and Calabr-o, Gamet Grapplers raised their. petfect record to 1 0..0 by overpowering Lowell 30-6, and l~st ft.fty years but that th~ greatest activity in the field has occurred host Amherst 25-16 m a smce 1966. The passage of the Medicare Programs, he feels, has triangular match. been the greatest single event to have taken place. He stressed, Bill Benedict, Mike Sciacca, however, that there are four major problems that must be and Gary Morris all recorded successfully faced before health care can be truly effective; they are double wins, as Benedict scored a Health Manpower, Planning Facilities and Health Care Delivery pin .against Amherst at 4:30. Systems, Financing, and the Future. · Sciacca, in his varsity debut, Dr. Gra~am noted several sources for the problem of manpower, smprised many with his stamina the J?Ost Important. of, them being t.he maldistribution and poor by · also pinning in the second location of the nation s health sernces. The lack of doctors is match at 5:46. critical, he stated, and medical schools wHI graduate only 8;000 new Gary Gurney, Tracey Rich, doctors in 1971; \We're moving rather slowly;\ he commented. The and liowie Benedict all recorded sho~~e ?f doctors is intensified by the increasing degree of a win and a loss. Benedict lost his spec~a~~atton and t~e apparent lack of _interest in the field of family first match of the season, 8-5, to medtcme. Some rehef.to the probl~m Will be found, he hopes, in the Lowell's Gary Sklaver, last year's development of \physician's assistances,\ who will learn skills and national collegiate fourth place receive training similar to that given to medical corpsmen in the finisher, after pinning the Mass. armed services. \The role of the hospital as an educational source heavyweight champion from should lYe strengthened,\ he observed. Food Co-op. ·Benefit ·rhfJrsday ··In . Chapel. Amherst in l:I6. The present health care system must be restructured and made Several points awarded to less \fragmented Dr. Graham continued. \We do not have a · Sklaver drew vehement protest health care system, we have an illness care system.\ He stressed the from the Garnet bench, and the unfortunate fact that most hospitals are presently working to Dutchmen were tagged with a dev~lop new methods of treatment while ignoring the problem ~of team. penalty poi:nt for a gettmg the new services to the public. One of Dr. Graham's \misplaced\ -head gear. Benedict solutions to the delivery problem is \comprehensive regional now stands I 1-1-1, while Morris planning\ ~h~ch would involve mergers of now existing hospitals by GARY LEIDERMAN At a meeting last Thursday night many details were-ironed :out and ~ll stu~ents present seemed enthused by the pJans.fer. ihe is 10 ... 2. 'and the butldmg of new ones. The program would consist of the Next Saturday an impressive creation of medical complexes along with centers within the St. Lawrence team invades community that would be within reach of people who do not Schenectady to .challenge Union's require the actual hospital facilities for treatment. unbeaten record. The match . Dr. Graham stated that the restructuring of the delivery system Hamtlton Hdl Food Coop. · A wholesale food store is being planned for the Hamilton Hill area of Schenectady, which is a ghetto area. It cannot be over-emphasized that the co-op is NOT a student plan, but that n-.any Union students a·re presently a vital part of the planning operations. Other successful co-ops (there are dozens of them in other communities) have been studied by the \leaders\ of the student grOl!p. In addifiort, $2~0 from Union an<! $l50.from·'Skidmore have been raised for the building and planning of the co-op. , including students. On Mt>nday night' ,gtiN'ts at 2:00 p.m. in Alumni wdl change the role of the physician, who must become more the 22nd, four Union representatives· Gytn. flexi~l~ in regard to his fees for services; the hospital will meet with any iiltereste<! admmtstrators, who must keep down costs, impliment technilogical community members. The following The AU-College Council, advances, and make the ho·spital \a human institution;\ and the night, the four will report back to trustee, ~ho must become aware of the \broader responsibilities\ of involved students (if this interests comprised of three faculty the hospitals. He suggested that \the true consumer\ tni.tst .be you, then you are involved and members, five students, and included on boards of trustees. should BE THERE!) at 9:00 in Deans Malloy and Lichterman, SS!l5. This Thursday night, the will meet in the Fox House ~inancing is one of the most serious of all thr;: problems. Graham 18th, a benefit concert {with a Lounge tomorrow night at 7 : 3 0 estun~ted. that the cost . of treating one patient per day in Ellis minimtun,donation of $l.OO will start p.m. the topic of consideration Hosp:ttal m .J973 will be $113. He again stated that part of the at 8:30 in· Memorial Chapel. In will be the President's -last two problem can be solved by the creation of out-patient centers for addition to performances by ~wo controversial decisions. people Who do not require actual hospital care. · loca:l rock groups, including:. Jacob; · Dr. Graham painted a picture of the state of healt. h care 1 ·n the · · w· · AA· · o. ne week from today, there . an opera stpg(lr; -azuratt an . utcan • future as being in critical need of cha·n,ae. \Nati'onal he\lth d b d . d · b d 1 · will be an open meeting of the' · oc a. rum · an ; an a Jazz . art • t 18 , insurance i.11 some form is inevitable,'; he concluded. The· 1'nsura ... ce hoped that a sample food-pr.ice list Student Senate' with Dean b bl u will be distributed. This is a non- Malloy and President Martin, mu~t e ·a e t? provide .. quality care· that wilH1ot bankrupt the . Legal aspects of a co-op, such as Incorporation as . a non-profit organization anp the handling <)f money (check account) are being well taken ca:re of, as it would appear that planners are leaving ho stones U~tUrned in their · attempt · to make profit orgaiii:tation and money is still although Martin will not answer pa~tent,. that w1U be read1bly accessable and that· will be patient nee~ed for food_. At any rat~, you any questions concerning· the onented. . .. won t want .'ro. mtss wl}at pro~rses to . outdoor festival planned by the , In summary, he dtsc~ssed a _Plan of . h~alth care . now thts work. · . . Concrete plans in~ude canvassing . : ti? _the ~:ar fut~~e. T~e .store it~ejf i~ . ! b'el!Jg prepateCI. by a teath . of wot kers~ be a.n evemng ef. ente.rtamme~t, social committee at Girling recommende~ by the Amencan Hospital Association and known as knowm:~ tha.t a:t t?~ same tim~, yo1;111 . Center. The Sen~te will meet in : health mamtenanc~ pro~m. The ~l~n calls for a system of . be.c_opt 1 qb~tmgto.:the.qaJt~el1 '~-A i 1 • ·s·s o.tL' t 1·o·o· · · .' · \\·•t · .d.. health care. cornorattons\lm. commumttes throughout Jth. e ·natibn · u, a . p.m., rw ~stu ents jj \ • h ...... 1 ..:1 t. ~ ~ £, , , ita___ •• ~~ 11 ~ , • ( ,~~ • ~ ll , , ; . , · ' · · · · · · · • · . · ' are invited 1o attend. · t at wou u oe set up oy responstble members of the co!rtmunitie§.'

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 16, 1971 \ Editorial Policy Making At Union:Overview and Comment vicious dile·mma in which everyone gets hurt. The answer to the whole questio~ I do not know. The answer to part of it I do, and that is ~ greater faculty role in tenure and salary decisions. president must loosen up, spread out his power, speak .frankly and expect to be spoken frankly to. We do not have .the money to operate any,other way, by WILLIAM OUZER Senior Board What can we sit back and say about the current disaffection with the administration? Need all the comments include \arbitrary~· \.edict\ and .. unresponsive~· as . if these easy· labels solve anyJhing? Probably not, but as much as there is for the administration to learn from the activities of the last couple of weeks, there is at lel!-st as much for us and our friends and teachers on the faculty te lea·rn. First off, what is the backdrop? All of a sudden are we . seeing President Martin as a not so benevolent despot, a man who .not only makes invidious decisions but attempts to pass off responsibility for them to his subordinates? Of course not. The president is simply not that kind of man - he is, though, a man under a great deal of pressure; a pressure I suspect he believes none of the rest of us appreciate. Harold 'Martin stands at a juncture of inte-rest groups, at a place, a -not very inviting one at that, where he must ftlter and decide based on information and advertisement from alumni, trustees, faculty, administration and students. Given that the range of opinion from these groups is wide on any given topic the man is in a difficult situation. \' In . goo$f times ·this situation is bad enough, but alas, another factor aggravates his position. Distinction is Expensive Union college must be distinctive if it is to survive, the administration likes to say. It must attract good students and provide them with something a much less costly State school cannot. Now, in bad times, Union has little money, the trustees have decided to cut back, and, if there is one truism about higher education it is that it co'Sts money to be different. A tug of war then: Programs must be cut and yet the schooi must achieve a distinctive identity. The man who must resolve this conflict: Harold Martin. All this is not preparation for an apologia on behalf of the administration but rather a brief sketch of a larger picture; the picture the president must see, just as we see our own perspectives revolving around the next concert or next salary letter. One might next reasonably ask, as many often have, where does- the responsibility of the college lie: To the students? alumni? faculty?. Here we post the tentative answer that the cooperation of all these constituencies must be focused toward the goal of the college: Providing an education, as the catalogUe tells us, in the life of the mind. The focus of this goal then must, obviously, be on the students because the purpose of Union college is to educate those who are here. But could the purpose of the college be fulfilled if tomorrow aU the alumni and trustees were to disappear? Yes, the students would still be here for awhile at least. Practically, though - could the purpose of the college be achieved if the alumni and trustees were to disappear? No. They too, are important, if only because we, require their money but place no value in their advice and counseling. For the Students The conclusion then is simple - the college exists- for the purpose .of educating the students; its focus is on the students. But a~ the same time the fulfillment of this depends on the active participation of alumni and trustees. There · are no natural enemies here. What there is, is an irony which sometimes, as recently, blossoms into a contradiction. That is sometimes the students, the focus of the college, must take second place to other interests so that the colle~e · . 9'LR : C<;?Utinue· . to· function for the purpose of educating other, future students. So, too, with the faculty, whose maintenance ' and improvement stands at the heart of the college's concern. They are necessary but are not being treated as importantly as they should be. Now, I ask you, looking back over all of this, where can blame he assessed and where can we make corrections? We see that many of the difficulties that are around us grow not out of money difficulties but rather from a· decision making mentality . based upon the belief that there are natural enemies and that this animosity plays a more . important part in ·the activity of the college than the seeking to educate students in the 'life of the mind'. Indeed, the decision making process may create enemies out of potential friends. We may ask: Do personalities aggravate th~ situation? Herein 1 am afraid the answer is yes. The mqst important difficulty does not lie within the administration building - in this case - but with those who are half-faculty Editor-in-Chief ·Peter J. Weingold Managing Editor James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff · Assoc. News Editor Pe,er Bickerman Business Manager LloydBirns Asst. Business Managers Joseph Achenbaum Doug Binder National Adv. Mgr. Mark Shulman .Editors Emeriti William Ouzer HemyG. Fein Contributing Editor Richard L. Kramer Photography Edi,or Jody Saslow halfo·administrators: The center deans. Here is an important point o.f contact between administration and faculty, here there should be trust and respect, and here there is .rnot. E;gos aside momentarily, political necessities given a well deserved rest, private faculty opinion about the dean's Includ~ '(bose Affected 1'he current decision making apparatus, ridden as it is with suspicion and mistrust, must be replaced, its deliberations o.pen to those .appropriate and its language streamlined. Games are · very · tr~nspareJlt and very da~ging, especiaUy here and in this context. Tru~ Distinction is n()t laudatory and, quite The present decision making importantly, the faculty ·of each process then cannot bold up in a center has little regard for the atmosphere where there are dean of the .other. One gentleman sacrifices and tol!gh decisions to is seen as bumbling and be made. Simply it is an ineffectual, the other as economic necessity that the conmwng, untrustworthy and der.:ision making process be self-seeking. This is not to say changed to include all affected· by Let our distinctiveness be that that these opinions are legitimate the decisions.lf we are to· give up our fa~ulty, · · ~tudents' ·and assessments of the men. For things, sacrifice our interests so administrators listen · to one purposes . of .discussion it is th~tt the college can afford to another and speak (rankly, avoid enough te. say t_hat some see thetn fulfill. its purpo.se we all have to games, half truths and politics: If this way. A major .problem in be in an what is decided. If there ... the most pervasive fact about out college decision making 'lies here is a shortage ·of money levus · present sit11ation is that we are at this juncture; What can we say spend it wisely, consulting those peody off finam::ially, let us do in an era of hard decision? that we are spending it on .and for.. the obvious, spend what we have .atese men should be replaced? Students, in this regard, supply · wisely . by consulting ·those the Likewise within the fa'Culty 55% of the. college's current eJ\pen,diture affects and consult : itself there is discontent over the income. Further, it is college the sources. of revenue to ask : ceiling on tenure .. Perhap.s if we policy that the student, not his what !hey want money spent on. · had had a faculty rat-ing system parents, is responsible ·for These changes must come if we publicly known and discussed payment. 1 am not going to are to survive financially an<l over the past years we would not conclude from this that students educationally. have this pwblem now. Are we should have 55% of the decison _,_..,.._,__..;.;.....;.;o,_...,.;..._ ___ --t 2049 Van Vrarikeit All Kinds of Fish Dinners & Sandwiches being caref-ul about tenure too making power because their late? Can we expect ~eople to. payments do -not reflect enforce tenure regulatwns that anywhere neat that proportion of they themselves could not have what it has cost to create the satl~fied? That st~tement may be present faciliti~s. ·It is undeniable unkmd and unfrur b~t .the only though that studen-ts are the reasonable reply. to tt .ls. to~. at mainstay of the day -to ~day least, ma~e pubhc t~e guidelines -college operation. In return for. \---------- upo~ whtch ten~re 1 ~ g.ranted. or this should they receive _great . demed - conftdentlahty astd~. power? Without saying yes or no T.here . should be some pubhc to that we can say that, for this, discussion of wha~ we expect and because they are the focus of from a man who destres tenure. the college, students .should Personal Appeal , receive at least serious consideration of what they Likewise, raises are decided in suggest. They also can expect a semi-secret manner; the fully reasoned, well thought -out committee should be replies from the administration reconstituted, a faculty member · on their decisions just as they pennitte.d to .discus.& his own pase: · e-x:pect -f,repatation and and to be present in discussions knowledge from the professors concerning him. Does . this who teach them. · change disturb the delicate balance the .President feels himself crushed in? I think not Changed Relationship and I think the change is an In this regard the important one. This issue then administration-student relation- can be ameliorated by a change ship might profitably in policy and the change will more resemble the student- relieve pressure from the faculty relationship. This sort of President and foster an treatment of students by atmosphere of trust where there administrators may seem foreign is now one of suspicion. The to those in the administration matter cannot affect alumni building .. This is a mistake and a attitudes, and the trustees, who rp.istake that has created much actually grant tenure, should animosity between those who welcome a change that enables seek administrative services and them to make a ·difficult decisien those who dispense . them. on ''best evidence\. Administrators are not faculty In the matter of ·salary the but they are part of an institutil;m number of faculty must be cut so of, for,. and by education. If they .that all can be paid fairly or the are reminded of that and college should go into debt to encouraged to act with that in pay the. faculty what artlo_unts to mind the college might seem at least a cost of living increase. closer to them and we might The cutting of faculty is not receive more from them; attractive; although, if decisions Students, then, should expect are made to cut . back ·on and receive serious consideration Saturday and Sunday, }:eb. u & 14 .SUPER SHOW The £nglish Roc~, Blues, Jatz film with led Zeppiin, Steve Stills, Eric Clapton, Buddy Mills, .M.J.Q., Rolancll<irk, Dallas Taylor, Coleseum,.artd others Frjday, Feb. 19 BYRDS tACT US REDEYE · Wednesday, March 3i Sr.tALL FACES · · with Rod Stewar.t Kenny lones,.Rarinie lane, lan r.tcLa&en r. Ron Wood THE GREASE BAND (fatmetiJ with Joe·~ackel') Special Guest Arttsts~ . SAVOY BROWN teat,prlnc lum Simmonds Coming: 10 Yrs. ~fler, Elton Johti, Hot Tuna,· Willie Dixon, Sly·& ·The family Stolitis PublicitY: . · New Concept Assoc•s, Inc. Pro~uctlon & sound:· Nat'l student Productions, Inc. N.Y.C, & Campbell, Calif. Proarammin&:. AShWOOd House, Ltd. ·I Features Editor Daniel Schochet · academic programs this should of what they suggest, be presen:t be done. It is not reasonable for in discussion:s of their proposals a man to think that because he is. and expect - honest and ,hired.he will be kept or that if a straightforward replies, Political program is cut 'back and his maneuvering at a place this size services, no matter how good, are is often self-defeating and not no longer needed, a place should only is the resulting .decision . ·be made for him. It is incumbent unpopular but nobody is fooled on the administration, however, for long about who decided and not to ttust the cases of these. why. Such maneuveriil·g 'men lightly., to inform them of a .. certainly, and this maneuvering is cutback in program at the last · common to faculty, possible moment or in indefinite administrators and students, . Sports Editor Asst. Photograph.Y Editors terms. serves little purpose in a time William J. Holleran Charles LQng. when we m\Qst operate much Layout Editor Doug Wong Asst. Sports Editor Dave Conrey Inconsistency . 1· 1 t ·•. !·Except where Indicated; 2 .. shows nl&htl; mt more c ose Y o survtve. l'. :~o a. tt:ao. P.M., $eatln&lbr •.•~tion/Ticket 1 Mark SltuJ!:oll Likewise the ide~ of finding What can we say, then, from Info: (518) 434-3345 ...... Business ofllc•= (5111 1 STAFF: Pattv Sipe, Les Goldman. Jay Hobart, Marc Lust. Harris Samuels. Judy h h h d d this ramble? The president fee·ls ·43N119· ..... tu.c. (212) JU2•0909. \le sure,. Steinbach, Tom Con ley, o avid con t i, , Greg Hamlin, Michael Hollander., ow inUC · you ave to spen an · to get stub. and hand sumped UPDII entefinli K I R . b A L M k M I Th · M t R th th. en dec1'd1'ng what to 'spend t't on· h.imself alone in a bind, the s•ow.'' ~~ 11 Orders:. Check or money order; George ap an, o ert , cvme, 1 e eser.o e. omas oran e, u · payable to ''NII'I Stllllent Productians, .lnl:.\l Morton, Barbara McDonald, Tom Mitchell, ten Solomon, George Bain. Marty does not alwa:Ys work faculty feel mistreated, and the SDK 712, Alb,, N.Y. 12201. Encia~e self·ad• 1 Be R 'd R 1 G 'I r.. d M' h 1 R b G d t r l b' 'l d lt dressed stamP,ed envelope & spectfY, dale & 1 nnan, et . usse. • 1\1 · .,...oo mJln.. . tc Jl~ • . osen erg, ary especially after several years of stu en s 1ee ar ttrart Y · ea time. Orders recei~ed 1 wk. before shaw· will• Leiderman, Mark tJrman, M~riCZubres and Howard Stone. · doing·. things differently. If you with. Fortunately tnany be held at bo~ office until show time. Box! Publi•hi:d Tllesdays illd !'rid<~~ durin• lhe ~~eliool )'Cllr !lY the student body ol • • d office opens at 2 P.M. daY of shaw. Remain· lJniO . n ('Aile-.\.'- '\·ll«:tady. N.Y .• NMil<»Mql Adveni~ilig Re ......... ntativc. l'latiomll g() into debt to .pay for necessary objections revolve aroun . the tnj! tickets ·vallable one week prior (through · .. .,.. \\''\.. • · c'\:\ · o··R=·- · 360 • h. . · t' 1 f d · · k' day Precea ,g Show)• ~llllnJ: MABQU, 238 EdU?ttoMI Mvent~!nK Se:-\'!l• Inc.. ottcKC. Puhhsh;CI'll cpfl'sel)tallv!l· . • .thmgs and t en one year say ac ua · process o ec1s1on ma mg washinaton Ave, 434'3290; ScllenectlldJ: THE l.cXtn,gton llw .. N.V.C, E4aturial i!O:I(.'O, q!d t.y~. U11aon C'otleKC, PuhhClltiDn . h' . 1 . d th b h.. . th t h t OTHER SIDE OF TODAY, 135 Jay St. 346·9108 · Ofi'ICC. The Wo~ PubiJ;\ttonl. 771 Stltc S~m:t .• !lcl~ncctudy, N.Y. 1~7, 346- those t mgs are no onger an ere Y S aW a W ~· MPhlll'li M!llh CRYSTAL MANSION & DRDMt 2356. l:ft!ercd '\the sehenectad.y JK\1\t_olllcc n Scco!!d OWl. •.Mall Matter.. necessary· because we cannot pay students and faculty are after ls SOUND· Trert TH£.MUSIC SHACK 97 Con• Suh.icrlpCaon 20 ccntlll CIIJIY• Sfla ycar dchV~:rcchny~hcn: m the Untl\:d Stat~ · · , • . . · · · u•ress St 273• i 4~>0. · ' ,' 1 ~------.:-.-:.,.._.....-_....:.;__.. . ......; · · · · · .•... _ . fQr .. tbcmJ.. yo.lt are. JI).V.olved. Jn .. a . ..no.t. based. .on. _.selfi-shnes~r · The.· · :..<. • • ••• • '\:\ £ ~ ~ ~ • ~ ~- ., • - • ~ - • ~ • ...... - • -· - .. - .. - .. - • ... .. ... .. .. • .. .. ~ ... ,. .. - .. 6 .. .. .. \ - .. .. ... 1- .. ~ •• ... . & .. • .~ .. 1 6; :'4 .•. To ( fac dec Gir Gir c,oJ Col adr stu. to l con the con I: sys.t sup wo ·corr · exp whi E

.. . . .~. .... :l •. 1- .. , ' [. \. \ To the Edihlr: One of the more illuminating facts concerning tb,e . recent decision tO cancel the proposed Gitling Center Conceit is that the Girling Committee was not even c-onsulted. The Girting Committee, a committee . of administrators, facuJty and students that was set up last year to study in what ways the college community could make use of the Girling Center. -This committee was never consu1ted. If a . committee system,. a system upon which this school is supposedly based, is to ·exist, it would s·e.em that these committees at least be allowed to · express their opittions on matters which directly concern them. The alternative is of course to abolish these committees and let the president decide .. What isn't needed is to set up committees, have the members work on a problem, then not even ask for their opinion when an issue arises. This only wastes the time of the students., the faculty, and the administrators who serve on . the committee. . I only wish to make one more point. In talking with seveFal meJpbers .of the Girling Committee I have been told that the committee was looking for ideas on l10w they could get the students to use the Center: orte of the ways they favored was a :concert. C. Scott Bowen, '71 LUIGI'S REST.AURANT SPECIALIZING IN .. Italian ·American Food 1125 BARRETT: ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling. Steaks C~nd Chops Visit Our Codt15il Bar \ SenioJS who did not . have their yearboolt pictures taken last term may do so on Monday, March 1 ·one day only. Sign up in the Student Activities Office. Price $3.00 Lost: One pair of gr~en, prescription sun:glasses somewhere between N ott Memorial and the Physics Building. Will the finder please contact the Campus Police. * * * * SENIORS: A representative from R.P.l., Troy, will be interviewin,g in the Placement Office in Wells House on Tuesday, Feb. 23, for all Graduate Divisions. If you are interested, come in to the Placement Office and sign up for an appoi~ttnent. * * * * PROFESSIONAL ·TYPING SERVICE IBM Selectric · Ex;perience in : · DoctcHal . Dissertations; Reasonable R,ates; Call 462•6283. CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 16, 1971 PAGE 3 ·Please. I lost my hat. It is gray with a large hole in the brim and a picture of a horse on the band. It is of great sentimental value. A reward is offered. Please call 346- 1850, and ask for Alan. 11<: * * * . . Hillel is presenting the Movie ••Let My People Go\ on Wednesday night at 8:00 p.m. in SS 016. Also, there will be a short presentation concetaing Soviet Jewry, including plans for a Sovi~~wry week. WITH THIS COUPON FREE SODA & SALAD 10 STATE ST. With Purchase of Submarine Oli 1 Spaghetti DINNER EAT IN OR OUT Expires Feb. 28, 1971 Schenectady Opposite Comnnmity College- Phone 37'7-4193 ~.MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We Cater To Stud~nts The Friendliest Place in· Tovm OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. a11d SAT. DARTMOUT-H,: SUMMER '71 Do Y_~u Go To A College Where 90% Of The Undergraduates, Use The Com_puter? ·' - ' . . Dartmouth: Summer '71 offers A Free Introduction to BASIC and Dartmouth Time-sharing The Kiewit Computation Center staff will provide a one-week, ten-lecture introduction to BASIC free to all registered students. In addition, Dartmouth · students will be available during the term as academic advisors to help students who are beginners with BASIC or the Computer. A Computer-based Curriculum of Introductory and Advanced Courses: June 27-Aug. 21 SOCIOLOGY - URBAN STUDIES POLITICAL' SCIENCE MATH PHYSICS GEOGRAPHY Project IMPRESS (Interdisciplinary Machine Processing for Research arid Education' in the Social Sciences) Project IMPRESS provides quantitative data from Classic Social Science basic data sets to students and faculty through the Dartmouth Time\Sharing , .Com.)>uter Sys.tem. Under development since ~968, the IMPRESS system now provides 9ata on Presidential elections in the 60's, Congressional voting records, an.:Lcensus retums. ., . National Sdence F~undation Conference- June 23, 24, 25 \The use of the Computer in U ndetgraduate Curricula\ -- Data Communications Conference- July 7, 8, 9 I 90% OF DARTMOUTH UNDERGRADUATES USE THE COMPUTER, ONLY 25% ARE SCIENCE MAJORS Through BASIC and Time-Sharing, Dartmouth has made the computer available to all students, not just a select few. You are invited to apply to participate in this unique educational experie~ce. OTHER SPECIAL PROGRAMS Latin American Studies, Comparative Literature, Conflict and Change in the Modern World, Studies of the Environment, Studies of Contemporary ·American Society, Visual Studies. JUNE 27- AUGUST 21 ~ TOMORROW, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17 For catalogue, application, and further information write to: A .representative of Dar.tmouth: Summer '71 will be on campus to talk with students interested in Dartmouth. Director of Summer Programs Dox 582W Hanover, New Hampshire 03755 1! J)i, .t~ .l.~- ... . L¥ cC• •;, I 0 I.'\ < f< \ • R I I. >I ' . r ; ' ·' .• ' 1 r.. • r • < . . He wiU be avaUable at the PLACEMENT OFFICE, WELLS HOUSE · 11:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. • J ' ~ • ) • - t ' ' ·.

CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 16, 1971 C·oncordy . Sports Cagers Face 11-5 Ephmen Mermen fa,ll To RPI; lllnes.s . Fells Y anki,ver by BILL HOLLERAN Tonight the Gamet• basketball squad faces its last major hurdle of the season enroute to the winningest hoop season at Union College and a possible post season tournament bid. Sporting a six-game winning streak, the Dutchmen travel east to Williamstown, Massachusetts, to battle the imposing Ephmen of Williams College. The game will be broadcast live oVer WRUC- 640, starting at 8:00 p.m. averaging around 18 points per game. Walters will counter Williams' frontcourt with his own starting front line of Mike Doyle, Tom Bacher, and Geoff Walker, ali 6- 3. Team captain Dave Shames and Jim Tedisco will once again pair up in the backcourt. Tedisco, averaging 24 points and six assists a game, will contend with the quick defensive coverage of Williams' own backcourt ace, 5-10 junior Vern Manley. · Williams also claims a distinct homecourt advantage iJ.i tanight's game. The Ephmen will be playing in their cozy homecourt, Lasell Gym, a small arena .ringed above the floor by a balcony similar to Alumi Gym's. Union's schedule after tonight's contest should be a cakewalk, with hapless Stevens Tech and Hamilton. providing the opposition in the Garnet's last two games. Barring miracle upsets, an 18-3 final record seems to be a certainty for Union - but a win against Williams is needed to keep the Garnet's NCAA tourney hopes alive. . . ~y GEORGE BAIN Stl:lnned by the loss of co- captain Burt Yankiver for the rest of the season, the Union swimming team struggled to the short end of a 68-43 score in an encounter with traditional rival. RPI last Wednesday afternoon. Yankiver, the outstanding senior from Massapequa, has been felled by sheer physical exl:l.austion and declared out for the year by doctors who suspect he may be . suffering from a disease similar to mononucleosis. His sudden departure dampens Garnet chances in the State Meet, less than three weeks away. Yankiver holds four c0llege and pool records. Coa.ch Bob McMurray If Coach Gary Waiters' charges can win two of their three remaining . games, .thi; years' version of the Garnet cagers will emerge as the most victorious squad in Union history. The 1925-26 team holds the previous best record of 17 wins and four losses. '7 4 Hoop Wins 8th Straight summed up the meet accurately by commenting, .. They were easy on us.\ The Engineers captured nine of the thirteen firsts and swept three .• e'llents, .. as -they upped their record to 2-6. Tom Shuffleton paced them, placing first in both the 200 yard freestyle and the backstroke. Senior Dave Seward led the Garnet by winning the 50 and lOO yard freestyle races. He clocked a :24.0 in the 50, a :54.4 in the 100, and swam the opening leg on the victorious freestyle re1ay team. Using Tom Hough as Yankiver's replacement, the relay team posted a 3:41. 1. Union needs a victory at Williams tonight not only to equal the 192!5726 win total, but to keep their h'opes alive for a bid to the four-team NCAA regional college division tourney. Coach Walters' five has consistently ranked high in the weekly State sportswriters' college division poll, usua.lly among the top five teams. The Ephmen, sporting an 11-5 record and a 65-49 win over Union conqueror Wesleyan, are indeed a diffi'}ult challenge for the Garnet. Williams boasts a slight height ~advantage over the Dutchmen, starting 6-3 sophomore Dick Stnall and 6-5 senior John Unterecker up front. Small and Unterecker are each IT'S NOT TO LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. Join Our. Wine Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store (Across The Field) 1505 VanVranken Ave. CLIP THIS - by MARTY BERMAN : The , Union College frosh hoopsters continued their winning ways Friday· night, defeating Albany Pharmacy 72- · ~68 for their eighth win in ·succession and twelfth in thirteen outings. The yearlings top off tonight against the Williams frosh, starting at 6: 15 p.m. In dealing Pharmacy ·their third setback against 14 wins, the Garnet crushed the Terriers' hopes for the Capital District League. Pharmacy's recor.d in the loop stands now at 4-3, a full two games behind co-leaders· Union and the Junior College of Albany, each 6-1 in league play. The Dutchmen were obviously not up for Pharmacy. They played poor defense, shot 55% from the foul line, and disdained COMING THURSDAY :; .. TATE.' ~ ,- >t q,I,._(Y Af.HI . . A FRANKOVICH PRODUCTiON · ~[9_I~ilR1:~w' BJ'LUW~ ~. . Columb1a P1ctures · COlOR tO Buy 2-Get 1 Free MIKE'S NEBA Giant Roast Beef SUBMARINE SANDWICH OFFER EXPIRES FEB. 28, 1971 GOOD AT ALL LOCATIONS OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK CLIP THIS COUD\'~·•-= WINTER - LOVE It OR LEAVE IT! 8 Day Weeek in the Flor,ida Sun Stay 7 Days-8th . Day Free Fr.om as Little as. $103 per person Go By \Heck'' Now! HECK'S INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL 151 Barrett St. Scbdy, N.Y. 34~3~31 their effective press. The Garnet frosh came alive ip. the opening minutes of the second half and that was the blillgame. Down 38-34 at the half, the enraged Dutchmen exploded for 14 straight points to open the second stanza and the subsequent 48-38 margin was never lost. Although the game DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Out Cbmfartable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell G~e on ·NoH St,..et Open Doily 1 0 to l A.M. Sundoys 5 P.M. to l A.».. ended at 72-68, the result was never in doubt. Bill G.rmody led the squad with 20 pl>ints, and Herb Reichenbach added 17 to the cause, even though once again he was the \unluckiest\ at the foul line. Tom Combs chipped in with 13 markers, and matched Reichenbach for the rebound lead with 11. Al Westbrook and Stan O'Brien also hit in double figures· with 10 apiece, marking the first time that all five star;ters reached double figures in the same contest. After tonight's Williams contest (which Carmody might miss due to illness), the Dutchmen conclude their season against Albany Junior College, and Siena - games which will decide the Capital District championship. Waterbeds A LIQUID LOVE-IN Special Student Price $64 Sold only at . Knox Street Waterbeds East 138 Knox St, Albany off Madison -. Between Lark & New Scotland 434-6508 FILM HAPS. Presents ~~ACROSS THE PACIFIC\ HUMPHREY BOGART SIDNEY GREENSTREET MARY ASTOR (see Bogart fight the yellow peril) plus selected shorts 7:00 9:00 11:00 TUES. FEB. 16 75¢ S.S.?Ys% Co-captain Mike Horwath gave the Dutchmen their other first place, as he and Tom K:J.inkow swept the 500 freestyle. For the first time in Coach - McMurray's memory, the Garnet had two men timed in unde.r six minutes in the event - Horwath at 5:56.3 and Klink ow in 5:57.2. Union's record now stands at 2- 4, and the next meet is Saturday at Rochester. Individual times are all improving as the squad points to the New York State meet the weekend of March 5. Two more home meets remain - on February 24, with RIT, and on March 3, against Hamilton. 135 ;N ott Terrace Mon.- Thurs. 10 a.m. - ll.p .. m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m. - 12 a.m. Sun. 10 a.m. - tl.p.m. ! ' ' . ' _ S,pecializln:l! ipi·~t~~~.~t ~'~~eJ~~Y.~L .. -: ~-- J L.,..\' ,.,. ,,,.,. ... +·~\\~ ... ~ :·.,,\' ~ ... - .. ·~--~----~------~--~--------~~------~~~---.------~ .;:. I I ~ I s 1 \ 4 a d I e I ) a F ii h tl \1 e 0 g e e· \\ \ I VI b .b sl d y I .. , d s a' 0 sl tl d rc b 0 f~ r<

,. ' FouN/ed til Union College 1877 _ VOLUME 100 NUMBER30 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. FEJJRUARY 19, 1971 Price Twenty Cents F acuity Council R'etains Current School Calendar by PETER DICKERMAN The Faculty Council, in a meeting held Tuesday afternoon, voted to retain the present academic calendar through the next year. This decision forestalls for an indefinite period any attempt to alter the calendar .from,the present trimester format. On Our Ecology: In considering the matter of a future academic calendar, the Faculty Council had been presented with two alternative models, both of which represented a \broken\ trimester system. Under alternative version 1, Fall term classes would begin _ two weeks earlier than at present. The first trimester would then be concluded just prior to the Thanksgiving recess, after which the Winter term would begin. This semester would pause after two weeks for Christmas recess, thus the \broken semester\ designation. Alternative version 2 differs from the first option in that Fall classes would start on· Labor Day (three weeks earlier than .at present), and the Winter term would continue for three weeks before being interrupted Man Multiplies And Kills His E nv-ironm:ent by HAR.lUS SAMUELS Davidson Fellow Ian McHarg, speaking in Convocation on Tuesday night, described man as \an epidemic\'. Speakil}g_ before a . .crowd of 400 in Memorial Chapel, told the audience that man fits the definition of an epidemic for he multiplies quickly and kills his environment. McHarg, Chairman of the Department of Landscape, Architecture, and City Planning at the University of Pennsylvania, delivered an interesting address which was hampered at times by the fact that he spoke so quickly that it was often difficult to follow exactly what he was saying. McHarg found several groups of individuals to be espe~ally guilty of harming the environment. ·His list includes every defense departme11t in the world with its policies of \overkill;\ chemical c()mpanies which produce toxins for the 'benefit of their stockholders' and . big inaustrialists who, he said, should be toilet-trained to stop dumping their wastes ·all over. Continued on Page 2 How To ·Solve The Problem Creativ·ely by KEVlN ROBERTS Ian McHarg, • this year's Davidson fellow, spealdn,g in SS 016 on Wednesday, gave an illustrated talk on his own concept o:t: environmental planning. The lecture, entitled \Ecological Study for the Twin Cities Metro.poiitan Area\ exemplified the · science of ecological .planning as applied to the twin cities of Minneapolis~St. Paul. Ecological planning is the prbcess of applying \adaptive creativity\ to the problem of coor-dinating the environment with man's ecological needs. Man, the consumer, has various needs and desires, and the environment offers him different potentialities for him to work with, McHarg said. They dynamic interaction between the two is ecological planning, The complex planning process begins by observing and relating the various natural phenomena of the area to various ecological factors. The bedrock geology,. climatology, ground water hydrology, physiography, surface Continued on Page 6 by Christmas recess. · The immediate advantage of such a calendar change would be the comparatively early conclusion of S.pring term classes. According to the Administration, many students have complained that Union's late Spring ending complicates the task of finding adequate Summer jobs. Additionally, the Athletic Department believes that an earlier beginning to FaJl classes would ease some of their scheduling problems. This calendar issue had undergone discussion in previous Faculty Council sessions, as well as extensive examination within the Divisions. President Harold C. Martin, who chaired the meeting, explained that if a revision were to be made in the 1971-72 calendar action would have to be taken immediately. Council members appeared unwilling to make such a major decision without further consideration. Professors Sherwood Fox and Alfred Goble, representing Divisions II and III respectively, both reported general President Martin On \Open Air\ Discusses Student Sen$ibUity Shift BY PATTY SIPE On WRUC's ''Open Air\ yesterday evening, President Harold Martin discussed the \shift in sensibility\ which he has detected, and the ro.le of studMts, faculty, and administr_ation in the governance of the college. The President described the shift in sensibility as appearing in the form of rapidly growing desire -for self-expression· or self realization and a reluctance to be ''put into a mold\ on the part of today's college student He feels that college curricula must respond to these changes. The desire for self-realization, according to President Martin~ is sharp with students because of uncertainty in society at _large . He believes that there are two literature). major aspects of people - the President Martin sees his role manipulative aspect and the as an Administrator as \being abstractive, or conceptU{lliZing one who is in a position to aspect. These two components broadcast his spe~ulations to are found in different percentages . man.\ He stated that the attitude in different people; engineering of the student who feels he has students would be high in no role ir. the decision making manipulative skills While the process has become humanities students would find \increasingly apparent as their emphasis placed upon the students become a ware of abstractive aspect. Martin wanting a role.\ Because things expressed the opinion that it is have changed gradually from a not difficult to put too much student's attitude of not stress on the conceptual aspect in expecting a r~le in the decision a college curriculum and neglect process to one for a desire for the manipulative facet. A better such a role, a committee on_ understanding of the dire<:tion a g9vernance has been formed to person is taking can be gained by analyze these changes, and its directly related manipulative report is due at the end of this activities (as. an exatnple; the week. Martin stated that there ldol, for thQse who study · Continued on Page 2 dissatisfaction with the broken trimester proposals. Professor Carl Niemeyer indicated that majority faculty sentiment within · Division I favored alternative version l, and Professor Gardner Ketchum stated that . this view was shared by a preponderance of Division IV faculty. After brief discussion, Dean James Palmer made a motion for continuation of the present calendar through next year. This proposal was carried with only one vote in opposition. Dealing with other .spheres, the Council unanimously approved the addition of several new courses forwarded by the Curricular Affairs Committee. Areas of subject matter approved were the following: an Arts Department course in Textile Techniques; a Political Science course in Political Psychology; and a series of Civil Engineering courses entitled Structures, Structural Steel Design, and reinforced Concrete Design. The lengthiest discussion of the session revolved around ·the request by two faculty members that each be able to grade his junior year comprehensive education project students on a pass~fail basis. The faculty members involved, Professors Patrick Allen and David Stineback, had presented written Continued on Page 2 All College Council De~ands Better Policy Formulation by TOM MITCHELL The All College Council meeting Wednesday night, discussed the college's decision- making process, and specifically, how it was involved in the ruling concerning the proposed Girling Center outdoor festival. The Council is composed of two admipistrators, Edw~rd J. Mallow, Dean of Students, Martin Lichterman, Dean of the Center for Humanities and Social Sciences; three faculty members, Patrick F. Allen, of the English Department (who was absent from the meeting) Thomas R. Kershner of the Economics Department (also absent), and H. Alan Nelson, also of the English department. Jan K. Ludwig, of the Department of Philosophy substituted for Allen at Wednesday's meeting. The five student members of the committee are Terry McManus, Robert Teittenen, Tony Faga, Mark Klein and Ron Aines. Walter A. Spencer, Jr. President of the Student Body presides. First, members of the Social Committee explained the status of the outdoor concert proposal. After preliminary talks with Dean Malloy and John Kleinkauf, Director of Security, and a period of uncertainty as to who in the administration was responsible for making the final decision concerning the concert plans. Malloy, as instructed by President Martin, assumed the responsibility, and announced the rejection of the proposal. His objection was based on the belief that the crowd might be too large, and available controls could not prevent people from sneaking onto the grounds without paying, However, many students expressed the belief that Martin, possibly anticipating adverse reactions from the community and alumni, was very influential in the decision to cancel plans for the concert. With this in mind, the proposal's originators attempted to discuss the matter with the president, but, so far, he has declined to talk with students about the issue. It was emphasized that Dr. Martin has yet to see the formal proposal, and in the opinion of many students at the meeting, may be uninformed on important issues concerning the concert proposal, including plans for security. It was also revealed that, in a letter to the President, one student (a member of the Social Committee although only speaking for himself) accused Martin ot'pulling strings• but not accepting any rt:sponsibility for the canceUation of the concert. In his reply, Martin said he will not talk to any member of the Social Committee until the statement is withdrawn. Expressing a seemingly common feeling, one angered student stated that as long as he opposed the concert plan, .. it is downright bullshit for the President to refuse to discuss the proposal.\ \ Dissatisfied and disappointed with the administration's handling of this matter, the council passed, over the objections of Deans Malloy and ·Martin Lichterman. a resolution indicating a need for the college's decision-m11 kers to \discuss proposals with people directly affected by them,\ meaning greater concern for students' wishes. The resolution also calls for college administrators (meaning here, probably, the President himself) to \refrain from expressing opinions on proposals ... unless [they] are thoroughly familiar with them and have given the authors of the proposal a chance to discuss it with them.\ Finally, the resolution called for President Martin to discuss the concert proposal with the Senate and the Social Committee. President Martin and Dean Malloy will be guests of the Student Senate Tuesday evening at 7:00 PM in SS 016. The President wiU answer questions on several matters but refuses to ~iscuss the proposed Girting Center concert •. Dean Malloy, who reportedly vetoed the proposal, wiD answer questions about it. The meeting is open to all students and faculty members. Questioning will not be limited to Senators. The Senate believes ttaat Union College is a community and that we must meet as a community to discuss common problems.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB-19, 1971 The HCooling of America\ by RAY KRISE Jr If we devised a scale, from 1 to may be more closely connected Today, the only real proponent 10. to rate the quality of life in than by simple coincidence. An of caveat emptor· is the American America, the decade of the 1950s economic recession obviously college. would have to rank somewhere cuts down on the more purile, To return to the original topic, around 1. blatant fun things in life. One has now: simply because ·money is a The '50's definitely had to be less time for screwing off if he bit tight is not reason enough for the most boring, nonproductive has to worry about getting the the \cooling of America,'' as decade any of us who are now evening's meal. Bread is some quasi-intelligent national students has ever lived through. something most of us have taken magazine has proclaimed. The The 1960's, for all their violence pretty much for granted, and its intellectual ferment has vanished and stupidity, reached about increased scarcity is a large but the discontent - the pain of maybe 7 or 712 on the scale, contributory cause to the thisnation-remains,andyou'd simply because people were peripheral feeling that something better believe it. Maybe my starting to ask questions about isn't right. perception's about as lousy as things that had always been. For One good thing, as an aside, Richard Nixon's, but I see a the 1970's, the scale's needle is that tighter bread might bring· nation of grey people just sorta hovering somewhere around 3. about is an eventual hightening wandering around saying things I was about to parallel the of the quality of material life in like \life is tol:lgh,\ and \things drop in the quality of life _ this country. In the 1950s, which are hard all over.\ The diluted'· which can be defined as the I'm parallelling to th~ 70s, there existentialism of despair. quotit!nt arrived at by dividing were all kinds of ugly, nutball I don't know why this is, I the most worth in life a person gadgets - like pizza parlors and really don't. Perhaps everybody's can imagine by the amount of the DeSoto - pawned off on a nerve endings have all fizzled out worth in life he thinks he is war fatigued· public. Thanks to from over use after having lain so achieving. - with the drop in guys like Ralph Nader, people long dormant. Or perhaps man the stock market, and the two are getting more descriminating. really is just a shitty little animal • I • LETTER· I . who always gets. precisely what he deserves. What I do know is that 1.984 - the year the scale drops to 0 To the Editor: A tubercle bacillus is bad - it can cause tuberculosis. Now, let us assume that little \bugger\ gets into our bodies. We fight back by walling off the organism and hope that tl:le walls are strong enough to keep the bacteria from entering our blood system and causing serious disease. and the host, the established society. The society can either wall off the young generation (and hope that the wall does not br.eak) OR accept the young generation to better cope witli the survival of man as we know Him. Michael J. Eisner 1 68 -is 13 years away, and I intend to squeeze as much life in as I possibly can before then .. So if you're a grey person, go watch Lucy or a moonshot or somethin' go to hell. On second thought, you're already there. See ya in grad school, everybody. Environmental VieWs Continued from Page 1 same. McHarg objected to the idea After his speech, McHarg held by Western man that nature made some general speculations is something to be conquered. He on matter and energy. conch1ding cited some passaged froin the ·by saying that \we must Bible as sources of this general rediscover the way the world attitude. Two of the phrases he works.\ Continued from Page l was no hesitation in his thinking about a student roie. The students have behaved responsibly and must have a role, but the question is what percentage of the decision making power should be given to the students. In the course of his discussion of decision, the President stated that the Trustees must have the final decision in the elimination or additio,n of curricular programs because of financial considerations. The All College Council has the responsibility for non-curricular decisions. Sttldents sit on the Admission Committee and the Discipline Committee. The President \' stated that he 1 does believe that those who are being geverned should have a. say in the government, and that this principle is not .presently being circumvented in the go-vernment at Union. The decision about the Band concert was a \rnatter of a messy and rather tiring operation plus a real misunderstanding of who was responsible for what.\ The President stated that his conscience is clear on this matter, and the only decision he regrets having made is that dealing with the change from two year contracts to one year contracts for junior faculti members. He further clarified this point by stating that , the reason he regretted the decision was because he did not have the chance to speak with the members of the faculty involved before the decision was made. He stated that this decision in com:bination with relatively small salary increases and · tenure decisions caused more tension than would have been present if Continuing along the same train of thought, let's think of evolution. Life has progressed from a single celled creature to a multiple celled animal. How? Maybe through the same process as described above except that the walled off object becomes an integral functioning part of the infected host, thus causing the host to adapt and to survive to its environment better. I should now like to relate this idea to the problem of the day. The tubercle bacillus could represent the young generation mentioned were \man shall have dominion over Earth\ and \Ye shall multiply and subdue the Earth.\ He also blamed economic motivations for playing a part in causing man's destruction of the environment. Calendar Change ... .Elections for the next Editor· In-Chief of CONCORDIENSIS will be held on Thursday e.vening, March 4, in the newspaper's offices in the Geology Building, Room 22. (Elections close at 10 p.m. on that evening.) Any member of the student body is eligible to run for the position, and he must make his interest known to the current Editor-In-Chief, in writing and by no later than Thursday, February 25, Only those whose names appear in the masthead of this issue of CONCORDIENSIS are eligible to vote. This status was predetermined by a meeting of the CONCORDY Editorial Board. Professor McHarg proposed another way of thinking - the ecological point of view. This attitude involves men understanding their interaction with the rest of the environment. He proposed that we send all the \ossified and calcified\ generals in the world up in space capsules with algae and bacteria so they could see how dependent man is upon other organisms. When they learned their lesson, he said, they could be brought back to earth. McHarg added that man must give up his domination and subjugation of the rest of the world, or he will lead himself to suicide, genocide, and finally, biocide. He stated that the fate of mankind and the fate of the rest of the world are one and the Editor-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold Managing Editor James E. Stewart Business Manager Lloyd Bims News Editor Asst. Business Managers Louis S. Snitkoff Joseph Achenbaum Assoe. News Editor Doug Binder Peter Bickerman National Adv. Mgr. Features Editor ~ark Shulman Daniel Schochet Sports Editor Layout Editor William J. Holleran Doug Wong .. Asst. Sports Editor · Mark Shul!oll Editors Emeriti William Ouzer Heney G. Fein Contributing Editor Richard ~- Kramer Photogr3phy Editor Jody Saslow Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey ST~FF: Pattv.Sipe, Les Goldman, Jay Hobart, Marc Lust. Harris Samuels, Judy Stembach, Tom Conley, David Conti,, Greg Hamlin, Michad Hollander.; George Kaplan, Robert A. Levme. Mtke Meserole. Thomas Morante. Ruth Morton, Barbara McDonald. Tom Mitchell, Len Solomon. Geotge Bain. Marty B~nnan, Reid Russel, Gail Goodman, Kevin Roberts, Michael Rosenberg, Howard Stone, Mark Zubres, Mark Urman and Gary Leiderman. l'ubli~hi:d Ttmdays and l'ridPY,. durin~ the school year by tile' stildcnt body ol Union Collellf'. S<:heneclady, N.Y., Nauor~~tl AdvcrliNing Repi'CliCnllltive. National Educational Advcni~ina Serviol:. Inc.. (.'ollcsc Publishers Repr'cMCniativc, Ji,O l-exington Ave .. N.V:C. ~itorial olfice. Old Gym. U11ion College, Pubiicati&Jn Otr~a:, The World Publications, 771 Slate Street., Schcncctudy. N.Y. 1230?. J.C6. · 23S6. l:nten:d in the Schene~:tady post ol'lice a£ Second Clllu Mail Mailer, Su\\-:rlption 20 centu c<ipy. S6 n year delivered unywhcnl in tbc Unitl'd Silt to. 1----- - . -· . -~--·-----1 Continued from Page I statements to the effect that their individual project courses could best be served by abnegation of the five-point grade system in preference to pass-fail. One opponent of the proposal argued that it represented an \pblique approach\ to a general attack upon pass-fail restrictions, and another opponent warned of the \Pandora's Box\ which ceiuld be opened by Council a ppro.val. Dean Palmer asserted that the entire question of grading requires a greater review than on the \ad-hoc\ basis being suggested. Professor Ro.bert Sharlet stated, however, that \every rule has its exceptions,\ and Professor Carl Niemeyer ~~Th~ ,_Best - 1 Wtnes & Liquors 10o/o OFF For Students Sol Lipstein LIQUORS, Inc. 827 McClellan St. Schdy. 372-038() argued in favor of greater flexibility in matters of grading. The two courses were considered in separate· votes. Professor Allc:.n's request was approved by an 8~6 vote, but Professor Stineback's motion resulted in a 7-7 tie. President Martin then broke the deadlock by supporting Stineback's proposal. Just before-adjournment of the meeting, P-resident Martin . announced that the Governance Committee report will be issued to the general public during the forthcomin_g week. ... ... J-------~=-·-7=~=======-=-···= .. -~' Film ~~P~ Presents JOHN and MARY starring DUSTIN HOFFMAN and MIA FARROW from the dir~ctor of Bullitt: Peter Yates SAT. FEB. 20 and·SUN. FEB. 21 SSOJ6 $1.00 J,·oo 9:00 11:00 this decision were the only one made at the time. President Martin also discu~sed his position on the concert at the Girling Center. The plans, which were presented · to Dean Malloy by the Social Committee were brought to President Martin on Monday. They were discussed, and no one was enthusiastic a'bout the plans, but the Dean had the final decision. The doubts raised by the Presiclent were those of cancellation of the event due to weather conditions or failure of the Band to appear. If this happened, there would be a fairly great risk of damage to colle.ge property. the neecl for outsiders to be present at the concerts (because of finan,cial considerations) compound these problems. The pc:lssibility of using the faci-lities . at· the Saratoga Performing Arts Center are now being investigated. President Martin· admitted that he has not seen the plans for the · concert, but agued that the plans are not necessary to consid~r the problems ·of cancellation. At the conclusion .of the show, President Martin was · asked about his feelings in relation to students sitting on the Board of Trustees. He replied that he would not object to this, but that some problems did arise. If students were allowed to sit on the board, it would be expected that faculty would also be represented on the board, which might lead to a conflict of interest. Next week, WRUC's Qpen Air will feature Mr. Richard Johnson. with Jack 1~\JDhnMcUughlin, arrjYounllll~l PI us, SUPER SHOW The Eng! ish Rock, Blues, Jazz Film Saturday and Sunday, Feb •. l3 & 14 SUPER SHOW The English Rock, Blues, Jazz film with Led Zepplin, Steve Stills! Eric Clapton, Buddy M fls, r~U.Q., Roland Kirk, Dallas Taylor, Coleseum, and others \11'1 Colo~\ c---. .. \Quodrophonic on .. •·\'\\ Wednesday, March 31 SMALL FACES with 'Rild Stiwaft Jenny Jines, Ronnie Lane, lan McL•r;en r. lion WoQtl THE GREASE BAND (farmeriJ with Ju Cteke!'l Sp@Cial Guest Artistss SAVOY BROWN featurinJKim Simmonds coming: tO'Yrs. After, Elton. John, Hot Tuna. Willie DllDn, Sir & The fcnnilr Stolle• PUblicity: Hew Concept Assoc's, Inc. Production & Sound:: Nat'I.Studcnt Productions, Inc. N.Y.C. & CamJ)bell, Calif. Proarammlns: Ashwood House, Ltd. !Except Where Indicated; 2 shows nlptly It . 1 7:30 a. n :30 P.M~, su. tln&tlr slcti•nil'. lent. , Ill to: (511) 434-3345 ..... ll!siness olfice: (511) 1 •4)4~2179 .._ H. Y .C. (2121 JU2•0Ht. \le sure. to get atub and hand stamped Ullin entltlni; lhC!W·\ Mall Orders: Check or money order; payable to. \Nat'! Student Pred~tions,, lnc.\i Bo~ 71:2,. Alb., N. V. 12201. Enclo$e self·ld·! dressed stamped envelope & specift date &i time. Orders re~ehr.ed 1 Wk. before show'will' be held at box office u~til show time. Bo~ office opens at. 2 P.;M. aay of show. Remain• lng tickets \ll•llable one week prior (through . day preceo .1 lhow): AIUIIJ: MABOU, 23& washlntton Ave. 434-3290: SchltiictldJ~ THE . ()THER SIDE OF TODAV, 135 Jn St, 346·91011; M!lhlwk Malia CR'ISTAL MANSION & DROME SOU NO; Trits . THE MUSIC SHACK, ~7 Con• ,ress st. 273·1400. . . •

Social Committee Credit as Poco Shines Brightly other than a well-produced sucko exciting moment at Union since performance - you could stick the Big Bust. Rusty Young's Iron Butterfly in the Fillmore pedal steel guitar ri!Jlks with the East and they'd still stink. best I've heard from Nashville, by RAY KRISE Jr CONCORDIENSIS, FEB.19, 1971 PAGE'! Jazz Workshop· Plays Tomorrow \rve been here five consecutive Winter Weekends,\ said Karen, \and every time I'm her~, Union's into somthing differerlt.\ I think she's about right .. I'm not certain who was here for Karen's first Winter Weekend,. but I thlnk it was somebody like the temptations. The next year was the Soul Survivors, who never made it to the concert (this was the wonderful year of 1967~68). but who did show up at DU, I think. The following year brought the New York Rock(& Roll) Ensemble. .a.B. King was last year. Poco was this_year. , As you can see, the acts scheduled for Win~~ Weekend· pretty mtich parallet·'ttte musical taste of the average college student for a{ly given year. 1966- 67 was a big year for Top 40 SouL 1970 • .:71 is a big year for the fragments of the Buffalo Springfield (next year, don't be surprised- or disappointed -- if somebody like Jerry Lee Lewis. shows up). Poco is an excellent group of their genre,' certainly a better live group than the possibly-defunct Crosby Stills Nash & Young. Their ml1Sic is called country- rock, although I'm beginning to consider the . habit of sticking a name other than \music\ on music stupid. What Poco is, anyway, is an excellent \Weekend group because they can -be gotten into easily within their first four bars (unlike people like JefferSon Starship, Miles Davis, or Harold D. Lasswell) - if you c~n't get into Poco, you might as well climb a pineapple tree. and pick lint out from between your toes. What all this rap is getting around to is that the · Poco concert this past Saturday was - with the exception of B.B. King - the best concert I've attended at Union College. Much of the credit for the success of the concert must go to the organizers. After having spent the previous evening trying to enjoy the Tony Williams Lifetime in the wretched Pala.ce Theater (everything you've heard about the Palace is true - it's the Wetson's of music) the . operations in Memorial Chapel were a delight. The sound system was, from Where I sat perfect (i.e., I can still hear). The idea of playing a record while the~ crowd fills in should have been thought of a long time ago, it had a great relaxing effect on the crowd. And - most important - there was little farting around before the group hit the stage. Right ori, old Soc Com. Today, Memorial Chapel; tomorrow, the Girting Center! However, the best production in the world isn't .going to make a sucko group give anything BRING YOUR DATE Entertainment 7 Nights Jackets Requked 1617 ·Union St. Sch'dy Poco, on the other hand, could and that is a c<;~nsiderable probably be entertaining even in compliment. the RPI fieldhouse. In a hall the And, besides all that, they can size of the chapel, they're perfect. play rock and roll. Yes, kiddies, They're intimate, like five guys they can indeed play rock and you· graduated from- high school roll. with. Audiences are bec..:>ming Like, wh~;t.t can I say, really? It more sophisticated and ·was an excellent concert. The demanding as the years pass, battle between the stand-up-and- and ~hey can tell when the cats dance gang and the sit-down- on stage are enjoying themselves. asshole bunch remained a draw. I don't think anybody missed the The open windows were both fact that Poco was having a ball. refreshing and liberating, The But, aside from being crowd was good, and maybe next personable and projecting good time we'll learn that we applaud vibes, they're also fine musicians. after - not during - an Especially good in this respect instrumental solo, huh? And the were Paul Cotlen (formerly of group was great. Wow, I guess Illinois Speed Press) on primary there really was just a little bit of lead guitar {Richie Furay magic in the country music they sometimes also plays lead), and were singin•. Rusty Young on pedal steel (P.S. Dear Social Committee: guitar (that thing you thought Do you think we could send 'em was an organ). While not one of a little more money, just for the all-time greats, P~;tul uses the having been so good? Fou17 commendable talents he has very thousand bucks is sort of a rip- wisely indeed, and never makes off on our part, when schlock the mistake of overextending groups like Crosby Still Nash & himself;· he has a fine h~ad, and Young are just rolling in bread. his work on their closing number Poco deserves better. They are was excellent, perhaps the most better.) The Union College Jazz Workshop will play their second jazz concert of the Winter term, this Saturday, Feb. 20, at 9:30 P.M. in the Rathskeller. Admission is free but seats are limited. Featured will be: Greg Chesson, piano; Matt Finley flugelhorn; Jeff A vrin, electric bass, and Dave Herzfeld, percussion. The group is currently planning to represent Union College in two jazz festivals this Spring: The American College Jazz Festival at QuiJ;mipiac College, Conn., and the Cobleskill Jazz Festival. Two other Union groups, one led by Phil Gruppuso and another by Byron Jackson and Rod Jones, are expected to participate in the latter. Workshop President Matt Finley has also announced the scheduling of the Albany Lab Band (the stage band of area colleges) for a concert at Union on March 7 in Memorial Chapel, with the Union College llrass Choir\ The Albany Lab Band, an 18-piece big band, presently includes eight Union students in addition to Albany State and Siena students. Those from \ I \ \ I . \ You won't have to settle for less'at Prudential. We've been involved with improving the quality of life for years -long before being involved beca~e fashionable. If this SOI,nds fike your kind of company, you ought to find out more about Prudential. . We offer career opportunities in marketing management, inves_tments, applied computer technology, sales, accounting, actuariaL and others. And we offer responsibility and challenge in a company that's committed to social involvement. A Prudential representative will be visiting your campus soon. Union are Derek Jantzen, Barry Goldstein, and Lee Dean, trombones; John Jurik, trumpet; Matt Finley, flugelhorn; Chuck Fisher, alto sax; Dave Williams, tenor sax, and Jeff Avrin, bass. Because of the necessity to include musicians from more than one college to insure this group's success, the Union College Jazz Workshop has agreed to partially finance the band and its director, Tom Brown, and, if successful,. for next year. In return for Union support, the Tuesday night rehearsals will alternate between Albany State and Union. The name of the group will eventually be changed to reflect its all- Capital-District-college nature. (§lGOODW~L.Ig~~~ers us· BROADWAY SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12305 (518) 374·7550 Check with your Placement Office lln l,./.. rn. tii~I~.•J tor the exact date, and make rt uUt;, 11 tlcil arrangements to talk ~o him.

.. f, PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 19, 1971 . ~ • HThe Dogmas of the Quiet Past Are. lnay_ ...... L.J Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms, Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. CH ~Carnegie Hall BE-Electrical Engineering Bldg. GL-Geology Laboratory HH-Hoadley House HU-Humanities Bldg. PL-Physics Laboratory PY-Psychology Lab . SS-Social Sciences Bldg. PBK-Phi Be.ta Kappa Rm. Schaffer Library MONDAY, MARCH 15 9:00mll:OO A.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Sec. 9 - (Introduction to Contemporary Mathematics) - in CH 207 - Prof. Behan Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 1 - in PL 202 -- Prof. Behrens Economics 131 (Microeconomic Analysis) Sec. I - in SS 115 - Prof. Peno Economics 142 (Macroeconomic Theory and Policy) - in SS 113 - Prof. Smith English 154 (Special Studies in Shakespeare) - in HU 114 -- Prof. Murphy HiStory 150 (Topics in English Legal and Constitutional History) -in SS 012- Prof. N. Allen History 65 (Problems of Political and Economic Development in Modern Latin America)- is SS 014- Prof. Bristol History 183 (Sub-Saharan Africa in the 20th Century) - in SS 010- Prof. C. Holmes French 130 (Readings in Contemporary French Literature) -in HU 112- Prof. Roberts French 132 (French Literature and Society) - in HU 117 - Prof. Thomas French 133 .(The French Language in Practical Use I) - in HU 014 - Prof. LeClerc German 10 (Basic German I) - in HU 019 - Prof. _Klemm Spanish 11 (Basic Spanish II)- in HU 016-. Mrs. Yinick Pbilosophy 21 (Symbolic Logic) - in HU 116 -. Mr. Ludwig Political Science 11 (The American Political System) Sec. 1 - in SS 112 - Mr. Tidmarch Political Science 166 (Presidential Politics) - in SS 117 -. Mr. Hartwig Biology 170 (General and Comparative Endocrinology)- in EE 22 - Prof. Roth Biology 180 (Biochemistry)- in EE 14- Prof. Birecka Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry I)- in HU 115- Profs. R - .;' . eed, ... owa Chemistry 40 (Quantitative Chemistry) - in SS 110 - Prof. Schaefer Geology 11 (Historical Geology)- in GL 24- Mr. Zimmerman Mathematics 28 (Probability)- inCH 304- Mr. Tomga PbysitS 24 (Statistical Thermodynamics) ~in PL 105 - Prof. Lewis Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 2- in PY 113- Mrs. Walbek Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) - in SS 016 - Prof. Graves E. 26 (Thermodynamic and Energy Conversion) - in CH Ill - Prof. Shanebrook MONDAY, MARCH 15 2:00-4:00 P.M. Chinese 11 (Basic Chinese II) -. in HU 119 - Prof. Woo French 12 (Basic French III) - in HU 117 -· Prof. Roberts Chemistry 32 (Organic Chemistry II) - in PL 202 - Profs. W. Martin, Sheffer E. 11 (Systems, Computers, and Design II) Sec. 1 - in CH 304 -· Profs. Male, Hoffman Sec. 2 - in CH 111 - Profs. Eisenstadt, Driscoll Sec. 3 - in EE 24 -· Profs. Hoffman, Male Sec. 4 - in EE 22 - Profs. Driscoll, Eisenstadt C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering) - in CH 206 -. Prof. Harlow 'E.E. 144 (Electro-Magnetic Theory)- in EE 22- Prof. Driscoll TUESDAY, MARCH 16 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 1l (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Sec. 1 (Introduction to Computer Programming) - in PL 105 - Prof. Wylcn Comp. Ed. 28 (The Greek Intellectual Revolution)- in SS 016 -- Prof. Ross FINAL EXAMIN-~~ Contlicts .in examinations in the Office -of the Registrar TUESDAY,. MARCH 16 9:00 .. 11:00 A.M. CoTJtinl,!ed Lati'n 134 (The Aeneid:· A ·Critical Ap.p:roach) -· in HU 115 -. Prof. Freund ., _ Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) Sec~ I -. in SS 115 -- Mr. Peno Economjcs 131 (M:icroeconomic Analysis) Sec. 2 -- in SS 012 - Mr. Hoiska Enlgish 11 (The English Literary Tradition: Augustan and Romantic) Sec. 1-- in HU 115-- -Prpf. Freund Chinese 131 (Modern Chinese II) -- - in HU 119 -- Prof. Woo· Chine~ 141 (Modern Ex·pository Chinese II) - in HU 119 -· Prof. Woo German ll (Basic German II) -·- in HU 112 - Prof. Warde Russian 11 (Basic R~sian II) -· in HU 116 -· Prof. Weston - Biology 14 (Biology of Animals -· Core II) - in SS 112 -. Prof. Roth ·- Biology 15 (Continuity of Life -- Core IV) - in HU 114 - Profs. But2;el, Dalgleish . Biology 156 (Animal Organogenesis) -• . - in PL 204. - Prof. Rappaport Chemistry 150 (Physical Chemistry I) - in HU 014 - Prof. Fishman Physics 133 (Electricity and Magnetism II) -- in PL 106 - Prof. W. Schwarz Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) · Sec. 1 - in PL 202 - Prof. Huntley Psychology 36 (The Psychology of Man-Machine Systems)- in PY 113 - Prof. Berthold E. 20 (Mechanics) - in CH 1 U - Prof. Panlilio E. 24. (Electric and Magnetic Circuits) - in EE 16 - Prof. Za~sca · C.E. 105 (Environmental Engineering I) - in CH 304 - Prof. Sykes E.E~ 32 (Analysis of Electronic Devices) -. in EE 22 - Prof. Galantowicz E.E. 41 (Energy Conversion) - in EE 24 -· Prof. Ingvarsson TUESDAY, MARCH 16 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 23 (The Second World War Era) - in SS 115 - Mr. Berk, Mr. Rutkoff Comp. Ed. 26 {The Nature and Functions of Law) - in EE 22 - Prof. N. Allen Comp. Ed. 46 (Faustian Idealism)- in HU 114- Prof. Warde Comp. Ed. 49 (Varieties of Jewish Belief)- in HU 115- Rabbi Zimelman Comp. Ed. 58 (Problem Solving) - in CH 207 -Prof. Stone Comp Ed. 66 (Sex and Sexuality)-· in SS 016- Prof. Lambert Comp Ed. 67 (Perspectives on Computer Languages) - in EE 16 - Prof. Bishko Comp. Ed. 68 (Engineering Control Systems and Cybernetics) .- in EE 24 - Prof. Russ Comp. Ed. 87 (Atomic-Energy an Public Policy: The Nature of - the Dih~mma) -- in PL 105 - Prof. Pilcher Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 2 -in SS 112 - Mr. Bryant Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 2- i:J! SS 112- Mr. Bryant English 140 (Criticism)- in HU 116- Prof. Niemeyer Rmsian 131 (Advanced Russian I)- in HU U2 --- Prof. Weston Statistics 10 (Introduction) Sec. 2- in SS 113 -· Prof. D.S. Holmes Mathematics 171 (Topology II)- inCH 206 -- Prof. Fairchild. Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 4 -- in PY 113 -·· Prof. Bertholtf. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17 9:00-11:00 A.M. D~ama 23 (History of the Theatre: Modern) - in HU 014 -- ·Mr. w~ . Mu.sic 133 (Musical Romanticism, 1825-1900) - in HB 019 - Prof. Wilson · , Economics 146 (Fiscal Policy)-· in HU 117 - Mr. Hoiska Economics 150 {Seminar in Industrial Economics) -·· in SS 110 - Prof. D.S. Holmes :Enelisb 167 (Modem Drama)- in HU 115 -Mr. Peck 19 ~ bert ·later ' ' #) • - ' -~) . c • (\> •·

l ./ .. CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 19, 1971 PAGE 5 \'.JVII·L.J·:r'·uate to the Stormy Present.'' Abraham Lincoln / SCHEDULE 1970-71 f:; -·u, be report-ed to Mrs. DeGroff ·later .than Monday, March s,. ' ' •_(i ._, ~) . c • (l ( \ {·· (1> • I ·~; . I ,, ' < ,., ' .. WEDNESDAY, MARCH. 17 9:00•11:00 A.M. Continu,ed History 127 (The Development ofthe American Economy) -· in SS 117- .. Prof. FinkelStein · ~ History 158 (Russia in the hnperial Age) -. in SS 113 -·. Mr. Berk French 144 (Emile Zola and His Milieu) -. in HU 110 -· Prof. Thomas ~f~ . · Hebrew 11 (Basic''ltebrew II)-. in HU H6 -· Mr. Welkovics Spanish 131 (Introduction to Spanish-American Literature) - in HU 112 -·. Mrs. Rawe Philosophy 10 (Classical Logic} -. in SS 016 - Prof. Peterson Pbi10$ophy 41 · (Political Philo~ophy) --.. in HU 114 - Prof. .Enteman Political Science 12 (International Politics) -.· in SS 115 -· . Prof. Gati Political Science 145 (The Chinese Political System) - in SS o'l 0 - Mr. ·Catron Sociology 12 (Human Society II)-· in SS 112 -. Prof. Fox C.S. 20 (Machine and Assembly Language Programming) -.. in EE 22 - Prof. Bishko C,S. 131 (Algorithmic Languages and Compilers)- in EE 16- Mr. R. Daniel WEDNESDAY;. MARCH 17 2:004:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 35 (Foreign Policies in the Cold War)- in SS 014- Prof. Gati Art 21 (Problems in Art II)- in SS 115- Mrs. Bittleman Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) Sec. 2 -in SS 012- Prof. Thimm · Eto_nomics 133 (Public P\alicy and the American Economy)- in SS 117 -. Prof. Herman E~onomics 144 (International Economics) - in SS 113 - Prof. Behrens English 123 (The Modern American Novel)- in SS 016- Prof. Gado English 1SS (Literature of the 17th Century) - in HU 113 - Prof. Nelson History 160 (The Russian Revolution and the New Regime)- in SS 010- Mr. Berk German 131 (Introduction to the Study of Literature) - in HU 014 -.· Prof. Elfe Statistics 10 (Introduction) Sec. 1 -in SS_.l12- Mr. McNamara Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II) - in PL 202 -. Profs. J. Daniels, Festa, Reed Chemistry 164 (Polymer Chemistry II) - in PL 202 - Prof. Sheffer _ · Mathematics 128 (Vector and Tensor Analysis)- inCH 110- Prof. Seiken Psychology 2.4(Social Psychology) in EE 22 - Prof. Calabria C.S. 134 (Logical Design of Digital ·computers I) - in EE 16 - Prof. G. Williams THURSDAY, MARCH 18 9:00-11:00 A.M. Economics 138 (Quantitative Methods ip. Economics I)-· in SS 010 - Prof. McNamara Economics 140 (Labor Economics) -· in SS 117 -Prof. Prosper English 13 (Major American Authors) - in SS {)16 -. Prof. Niemeyer - · English 168 (The Irish Renaissance) - in HU 116 -· Prof. Murphy Freneh 11 (Basic French II) - in HU 117 - Prof. LeClerc German 133 (The German Language in Practical Use I) - in HU 114- Prof. Klemm German 142 (German Romanticism and Realism) in HU 119 - Prof. Warde Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish. III)- in HU 112 - Mrs. Vinick Spanish 130 (Readings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish American Literature)- in HU 110.~ Mrs. Rawe Philosophy 10 (Philosophical Problems) - in HU 115 - Prof. -- - Entemtm · Philosophy 15 (Contemporary Theology) - in SS 115 - Prof. Snider THURSDAY, MARCH. 18 9:00-11:00 A.M. . Continued PoHtical Science 133 (Theories of Political Development) - in SS 112 - Prof. Nichols Biology 12 (Cell Biology- Core I)- in EE 22- Prof. Lambert Biology 44 (Cytology)- in PL 202- Prof. Urban Biology 150 (Evolutionary Biology) - in PL 202 - Prof. Dalgleish Mathematics 137 (Real Variable Theory II) - in CH 201 - Prof. Bick Mathematics 138 (Multivariable Calculus I) - in CH 207 - Prof. Maddaus Physics 17 (Principles of Modem Physics II) - in PL 105 - Prof. Schick Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 3- in PY 113- Prof. Calabria E. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials) - in CH 108 - Prof. Potter E. 30 (Mechanics of Deformable Solids) - in ~H Ill - Prof. Panlilio THURSDAY, MARCH 18 2:00-4:00 P.M. I.A.l34 (Organizational Theory)- in HU 117- Prof. Foltin Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec. I- inCH 201- Mr. Leschen Sec. 2- inCH 210 -Mrs. Corman Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Sec. 1 - in CH 111 - Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2- in SS 112- Prof. Fairchild Sec. 3 - in EE 22 - Prof. Gillette Sec. 4 - in CH 206 - Prof. Stone Sec. 5 - in SS 115 - Prof. Loughlin Sec. 6 - in SS 117 - Prof. Roulier Sec. 7 - in CH 207 - Mr. Tornga Mathematics 14 (Calculus III) Sec. l - in HU 115 - Prof. Bick Sec. 2 - in SS llS - Prof. Loughlin Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) -in PL 202 - Prof. Leach · Mathematics 32 (Abstract Algebra I) · Sec. 1 - in EE 22 - Prof. Gillette .Sec. 2 - in CH 108 -Prof. Behan . Mathematics 142 (Numerical Analysis II) - in SS 117 - Prof. Roulier FRIDAY, MARCH 19 9:00-11:00 A.M. Drama 17 (Theories of Directing)- in HU 014- Mr. Weil Greek 11 (Principles of Greek) - in HU 110 - Prof. Reece Greek 133 (Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides)- in HU 113- Mr. Ross Latin 11 (Latin Reading I) - in HU 110 - Prof. Reece· History 184 (Selected Topics in Mrican History) - in SS 110 - Prof. C. Holmes Phil~ophy 34 (Contemporary Philosophical Problems)- in HU 117 -.· Mr. Ludwig Political Science 152 (Soviet Foreign Policy) - in SS 112 - Prof. Gati Chemistry 186 (Special Topics: Molecular Orbitals I) - in SS 117 -· Prof. W. Martin Physics 11 (Mechanics)- in PL 202- Profs. Jones, Schick, C. Swartz C.S. 140 (Theory of Automata I) - in EE 24 - Prof. G. Williams FRIDAY, MARCH 19 2:00-4:00 P.M. English 11 (The English Literary Tradition: Augustan and Romantic) Sec. 2 -· in HU 115 - Mr. Peskin English 131 (Narrative Writing)- in HU 117- Prof. Gado Philosophy 31 (Medieval Philosophy) - in PBK - Prof. Tolan Physics 15 (Principles of Modern Physics I)- in PL 105- Prof. Goble Physics 142 (Application of Quantum Mechanics) - in PL 106 - Prof. Hoovetman C.E. 46 (Engineering Decisions) - in CH 304 - Prof. C. Williams C.S. 12 (Fortran Programming) Sec. 1 -in PL 202- Prof. W. Schwarz Sec. 2 - in CH 201 - Mrs. Corman A.S. 30 (Growth and Development of Aerospace Power I) - in HH - Col. McGee

PAGE 6 CONCORDIEN~IS, FEB-19,1971 Cohen On U.S. Society: \Put It All Together'' by ALAN COHEN The Union College coffeehouse set a few records this past Friday evening in the Nott Memorial: most coffee and donuts consumed, most money taken in, and I would guess, most satisfied customers. For about f('lur hours, Barbara Michela, Utah Phillips, and Tom Church did their parts to make the evening what it was. Barbara has played there several times since entering Union last September. I'm just partial I guess, but she does all the right songs (especially some by Joni Mitchell and John Sebastian) in just the right way. Tom Church has given two previous concerts, one in the Memorial Chapel in a fund raising event for the M outebanks and one at a free coffeehouse. Usually complemented so well by Chuck McDermott, Tom showed that he is pretty fine by himself. The coffeehouse has been able to assembly consistently good talent; it will be worth it to you to make it over any time it is being held. I would like to mention the third performer - one whom I had never heard before - Utah Phillips. I did not know I would be writing·· an article, so I cannot quote him exactly, but I'll try to .give you an idea of what he said. Utah has been in just about every part of this countty and has stories to tell about them all. During his second set, he sang some old labor union songs from the early 1900'.s and the 1930's. .. People somet.imes ask me why I sing these old union songs. •cmon Utah,' they say, 'That's not where ifs at today.' Yqu know, most people now think that the eight hour day and child labor laws are products of the benevolence of enlightened management. Well, they're wrong. Much blood had to be shed by working men to get these changes we take for granted, and that's what these songs are about. \It's not your fault you never learned these things in school. You see, your history has been ripped off from you. I know some white radicals who know more about Black history than their own. But it's up to you to steal back your history.\ And Utah sang \Joe Hill.\ Finally, Utah walked off the stage clenching his fist - a forty some-odd year old man who has been around and tried or seen it all -and you got the feeling that he knows a hell of a lot more than you've ever conceived 'of knowing. I am being very optimistic and speculative, but there is a course offered by the History Department next term called ••The emergence of Modern America;\ it's described as the response to industrialization and urbanization reflected in American politics, thought, and culture. Utah said that if he's around, he'll come and sing songs and talk things over. Maybe we can steal back some history if it's important enough to us. I think we are at the point where it has to be. We all know that America is very ill; we do not know if the disease is fatal and if America plans to take the rest of the world with it when it goes. Speaking before Convocation last Tuesday, Jon Kozol called us all somewhat mentally ill: \Don't you think that to lead' a life of abundance at the cost of the sweat and poverty of millions is a form of mental illness?\ It is the same illness that Ronald Laing calls insanity. If you don't want to be insane in this society, you can be normal: \Norrilal men have killed perhaps 100,000,000 of their fellow men in the last fifty years;\ and Laing' describes normalcy as a product of repression, denial, splitting, projection, etc. (The Politics of Experience, pp. 27-28) It is easy enough to talk about absurdities - that since there is no order to life and we are all so meaningless anyway, we should accept the world's shortcomings and find a way of erijoying life instead constantly feeling guilty and beating one's head against the walt If one ean find satisfaction in such a life without feeling alienated from himself, that weltanschaung is difficult to dispute. But the Blacks . aren't going to wait around with you and neither are some whites who just cannot fake it any longer. As Kozol said about civil rights, I know that the Vietnam War is old hat. Everyone figures that old Richard Nixon is winding it down, and the draft has been \reformed.\ I didn't realize that \our manned space program will be coming to an end\ as was reported last Tuesday in Concordy. Then maybe we're not as ill a$ I think. But then again, after we win the war, we can always pick up the space program. And then, there is the lettuce strike. Which some people don't know about. Alan Kohn, Bruce Bramley, and Steven Katz all were well aware of the plight of the migrant workers when they made their salad Sunday evening out of a \craving\ which they could not overcome. Scabs and narcs are probably two of the lowest forms of life, even if they are nice people. I admit that I am writing this from a strained point of view. I will be draft-eligible very soon. I might like to teach within the establishment or help people constructively challenge the system. But they won't ev.en let me cop-out like that because they want me to shoot at Asians Whose cause I sympathize with. I may not fully realize the insanity until they try to draft me. It's still a fantasy that I do not understand. Maybe I have to become insane to deal with it all. I remember once hearing old Richard Nixon issue a challenge to youth who take part in demonstrations to go out and do something worthwhile in the communities. He said that the government would not offer money or aid but would stay in the background. This \challenge\ followed for myself a summer of social work at minimum wage. Actually, I was lucky I got the job since minimum wage paying jobs for doing worthwhile work are hard to come by unless your father is in the Democratic Club. In . this technocracy, to do something worthwhile for others is something extra - a challenge which you can't devote yourself to if you want to eat and have some free moments to enjoy the technology. All you have to do in this society is beat the other guy and force up the GNP. The technocracy makes you feel kind of helpless, because you are fulfilling it, not the other Way around. And when Black people organize to protect what little is theirs, the government infiltrates Black organizations. And when the traitor Black man gets found out, the government tries to execute Bobby Seale. And you stand helpless. That's normal. And the government boycotts Cuba, as Kozol pointed out, the one country with I 00% health care and literacy. And revolutionary whites here are called misfits. Kozol talks about it in one way, Utah a bit differently and Bobby Seale in his own way - our job is to put it all together and do something until all the applause for Dolff Drodge has stopped. Any student organization wishing to list an eve!lt on the March monthly calendar should contact Barb Sherman at 370- 2282 no later than Wed. Feb. 24. * * * * National Ski Patrol: Mandatory First Aid Course will begin Wed. Feb. 24 at 7:30 in the. Social Sciences building. Section chief will be present. For more information contact Ginny, !Barb room 418 Richmond. * * * * McHarg Convocation Continued from Page 1 water hydrology, soil geology, plant ecology, animal ecology and cultural geography of the area are all studied. The information gathered from these studies is exchanged among area scientists in order to examine different views concerning the possibilities for interaction. The material is then translated into forms which are more useful in synthesizing a broad picture of the natural processes. This. data is then fed into a computer which compiles a picture of the entire biophysical process which comprises the ecological model. After an extensive study of the environment, the population of the area is studied by social scientists, cultural anthropol· ogists, and economists who observe the social phenomena which occur in the surrounding communities. Growth trends are analyzed and projected. figures for the future are calculated, to give a broad. picture of the social-ecological system which the planner must deal with. Ultimately, both man and the environment in which he lives are creatively coordinated to give the best possible \fit.\ McHarg has designed ecological models in a number of areas across the country, and the formulations he has used have created more ideal settings for man in his environment. Seniors who did not have their yearbook pictures taken last term may do so on Monday, March 1 one day Sign up only. in the Student Office. Price $3.00 Activities The next session of the Union College Department of Student-Faculty Bridge Club will Biological Sciences anneunces a be held on March 2 at the Hale seminar for Monday, February House Faculty Lounge at 7:45 22\ 1971, at 4:30 P?v.£, i? Social P.M. All those interested in , Sciences 012. At this ·time J?r. participating are welcome. William H. Gotwald, Jr. (Utica * * * * College) wjll discuss the ever Zero Population Growth, Inc., scintillating topic \Food a nationwide nonprofit Gathering Behavior of the Ants organization formed to halt the - Ecological and Evolutionary -population explosion here and Considerations.\ Those under 18 abroad,. wants to reach the will not be admitted - the general public with squeamh;h are advised not to advertisements in national attend. magazines. Funds are desparately needed for the purchase of advertising space. Anyone interested in helping raise money or becoming an active participant in any of the 300 loe~d chapters across the nation, please contact John Robbins~ 372-0172. * * * * Romance and Reality, the third film in the CIVILISATION series will be presented at the SchachtFine Arts Center on the Russell Sage College Campus Monday evening, Ft?b. 22, .1971, at 7:30 P.M. Admission is free and the public is welcome. Panel discussion to follow. * * * * Tuesday, February 23, The Non-Western Studies Seminar will sponsor a public lecture with Professor John Badgtey of the Institute of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. Professor Badgley will speak on \African Development; Prospect and Prognosis\. His lecture will take place at 7:00 P.M. in HU 115. The public is cordiaily invited. * * * * Any student who wishes to work on the Freshman Record '75 and is willing to devote extra time after Spring Term Exam week, please contact Harris Ginsberg 374..0160 or 346-9959 (1247 Lenox). There are possibilities .for photographers, writers, and miscellaneous experts. * * * * Persons interested in playing intramural softball in the Spring are requested to turn in team rosters by March 5. Teams should preferably be organized on a floor-by-floor basis. Rosters should contain at least 14 names. Resident Advisors are asked to assist in organizing teams . and in submitting the rosters. to Roy Wiese in 111 Fox. * * * * There will be a PYE meeting on Monday, Feburary ?2, at 4:30 P.M. in the; Social Sciences Lounge. * \' * * * * * * · We, working on the Hamilton Hill co·op, are having a neighborhood. meeting on Monday, Febtuary 22, 1971, at 8:00 PM at 401 Summitt Ave. We need a few cars and several baby sitters .. (t\ransportation will be provided) to provide rides for mothers coming to the meeting and to watch their kids while they are gone. Better say 7--10:30 - sign up at . Student Activities office. * * * * The final topic on health related ·problems in our community entitled \Drugs and the Student\ will be presented on Monday, February 22, at 8:00 P.M. in SS 016. Students and the general public are cordially invited to attend. D.ynamiteMove Spurred On. By· Freshmen by KATHY . VAN OORT With great pride and gleefulness, the class· of '74 wishe~ to announce the successful launching of the Naught Memorial · at midnight last night. Our congratulations go to the engineering and math majors who put the plan onto paper, the poll sci majors who handled the explosives, and last but not least, the G.E. 415 computer whose speed and efficiency enabled us to operate on schedule. The memorial was launched in a trajectory calculated to land it pigeon-roost first upon the R.P.I. campus. This objective was chosen a) in honor of the old Union-R.P.I. rivalry, and b) due to the lack of , sufficient explosives (which were packed into the bookstore) to propel it to Washington, D.C. Reliable sources have informed· us that the Naught has had as great an impact up·on R.P.I as it had upon Union. ·-·---·-·- -·--·--- ~------.., Waterbeds A LIQUI.D LOVE-IN Special Student Price $64 Sold only at Knox Street W aterbeds East 138 Knox St, Albany off Madison - Between Lark & New Scotland 434-6508 -------------~----- WITH TI.IIS COUPON FREE SODA & SALAD 10 STATE ST. With Purchase of Submarine or Spaghetti DINNER EAT IN OR OUT Expires Feb. 28, 1971 Schenectady Opposite Comn:nmity College- Phone 377-4198 . '.\ ;., ,. ' '' . '' ?• .J ,·, ·, ,\ !·'• . J .. \ ,; \ j~, -l:' <f• •lJ.

,. ' ' ' ~ '' ,, ' J .J ' .. ·, ,\ ,, '• ' . Bandbox Gym At Williams Foils Union's Cage Dreams .. b~ MIKE MESSEROLE clos~d the .g~p to 58-54, with J~m For the rnost p~rt U~on went Williamstown is one of the Ted1sco h1ttmg on a four pomt cold, except for T~d1sco. who most beautiful college towns in play (basket, foul shot, and kept Garnet hopes alive With an America. In the autumn, the technical foul shot) and Mike incredible shooting performa_nce brown and go! (I. leaves are always Doyle hitting for two points that saw hi_m score 38 pomts falling, to be raked and burned· s~conds later. All of a sudd:n the befo_re t~e mght was out. J?ow.n on Frid~y ~fternoons; in the ~tzeable Schenectady contmgent 84-7~ With I :58 t_o go,. T.~dtsco s spring, the bird.s ·~re al~ays m the stands mad~ itself hear_d herOICS pulled l!mon wtthm th.ree chirping and shm-htgh s~nngs and started. drowrung out the~r at ~6.-83, with only 0.44 surround keep-off-the-grass hosts. Ted1sc~ and. Doyle .hlt retna~nmg. But only seconds later . patches of turf; and in the winte_r, fr~~ the chanty stnpe an:~ tied the ~a,·~et. was down 92-83, and as you descend the mountam \':ilhams at 58-5~. Then, fm .. dly, Wilhams y1ctory was safe. pass and look into the snow- With. drums .beat1~g and kazoos A~ Tedisco . left the g~me to a covered valley below with its tootmg, Tedtsco ftred a 30 yard ro~s:ng standmg ovatwn, t~e church steeples and smoking pass to Geoff yvalker, whO' Wtlha~s crowd ~alled for the1r chirtmeys, what you see is c~nverted,_ and Umon led 62-61 f~vonte substtt~te, D?ug something right off the· cover of With ten mmu!es to go. . Pickard, and, ~avi?g re_gamed The Saturday Evening Post. . . But . as (j~tckly as they had control of the notse m their o~n Right ·in the middle of this stelen 1t, Umon lost the lead. Led gym, ch.eered the clu~sy, Semor Rockwellian setting sits W:illiams by. ~ackcourt ace Ver?- Manley, on to his letter a~ Umon s post- Coliege. Williams is @.\~ being Wrlhams started edgmg away. season prospects t1cked away. back at prep school, otity there CONCORDIENSIS, FEB.19, 1971 PAGE 7 . New Groups Present Folk, Rock, and Jazz lhe Social Committee announces \New Perf0rmers Weekend\ scheduled to take place Feb. 26 and 27. On Friday evening, the 26th at 8:30 a new folk-rock group, Manhattan Transfer, will be in concert. The Capitol Records recording group features Gene Pistilli, recently of the heralded Cashman, Pistilli and West group. Their music ranges from Laura Nyro to Dave Van Ronk blues to country to old-style rock; as featured in \Guided Missle\ a Sha-Na-Na-like parody of an early fifties song. Manhattan Transfer was the sensation of this year's Shaeffer Music Festival in Central Park, the festival that also discovered J imi Hendrix. On Saturday night at 9:00 P.M. the attraction will be Freeway. Freeway is a jazz-rock group which plays exclusively original compositions. The group has received rave reviews wherever it has performed and is slated for April appearances at New York City's Fillmore East and the Village Gate. Freeway will also be seen on national television on Johnny Carson's Tonight show in early spring A one dollar ticket gains admission to both shows. Tickets for this big \2 for I\ presentation will go on sale Monday morning in the Student Activities Office; both concerts will be m Memorial Chapel. are girls around. Topsiden~; yellow button-down shirts, and charcoal colored chesterfields are standard equipment here. It is only the occasional girl on some guy's arm that jolts you into .remembering that you dori't have to worry about making mandatory chapel. If you are a senior. •• Not far from the center of the campus stands a .grey-stoned building called LaSalle Gym. If this place is a gym, the N ott Memorial is a work of art. Playing basketball in LaSalle Gym is lik-e playing water polo in the tub, there isn't a lot of room. Still, while Union plays . its varsity schedule in a spacious fieldhouse (which, until this season started filling the bleachers, was a little too spacious), Williams calls LaSalle its hoop home. This lack of room, of course, can add up to a sizeable home court advantage,if the stands are jammed with home town sympathizers. -.~ Carrying a brilliant 16-2 record and countless post-season dreams , into Williamstown last Tuesday night, Coach Gary Walters and the Union basketball team arrived to do battle with an 11-5 Williams outfit an.d their gym. After the first half, the gym was winning 47-41. Psyched up by the brutal \you-you-you\ yell that greeted every Union foul, and some first rate voodoo chants an~ rhythm hand clapping, Williams looked like a winner. Returning to the court to begin the second half, however, the atmosphere had changed. During halftime Union's crack cheerleading drill team had taken the floor and won the hearts of the Williams crowd. The old walls of LaSalle had never seen anything like it. Leaving them emotionally exhausted with splits, summersault!!> and roll- overs the Garnet gi:ds paved the way for a Uniort comeback in the second half. It wasn't until 15:08 that the Dutchmen took the hint and TE: TAD NOW AT 1:05-3:15 . 5:20·7:30·9-:40 A FRANKOVICH PROOUCT10N aacTaRs' WIVES PROFESSIONAL TYPING SERVICE mM Selectric Experience in Doctoral Dissertations; Reasonable Rates; . Call462-6283. could be the most im~ortant year of your life. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, you will want to remember this: it is not just \a job\ you are seeking-it should be the beginning of a career. And if it is to be successful, both you and your employer must need and want each other. To helf<) you with your decision, we invite you to con- sider the opportunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Cur~ rently, our engineers and scientists are exploring the ever-broadening avenues of energy conversion for every env.ironment ... all opening up new avenues of explo- ration in every .field of aerospace, marine and industrial power application. The technical staff working on these programs, backed by Management's determination to provide the best and most advanced facilities and sci- entific .apparatus, has already given the Company a firm foothold in the current land, sea, air and space pro- grams so vital to our country's future. We selec~ our engineers and scientists carefully. Mo+i- vate them well. Give them the equipment and facilities only a l.eader can provide. Offer them company-paid, graduate-education opportunities. Encourage them to push into fields t~at have not been explored before. Keep them reaching for a little bit more responsibility than they can manage. Reward them well when they do manage it. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in: • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING • AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING • ENGINEERING SCIENCE • ENGINEERING MECHANICS If your degree is in another field, consult your c'OIIege placement officer-or wrlte Mr. Len Black, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, CCllnnecticut 06108. Pratt & Whitney r:lircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATI(\ N A EAST HARTFORD AND MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT An Equal Oppottunity ~mpiO)'tr

.. 8 CONCORDIENSIS. Concordy Sports - Cagers' Tournament Hopes Dampened By Ephs, 92-85 Matmen Face Toughest Challenge Of Season: Host P·owerful Larrles by BILL HOLLERAN Williams College dealt a severe blow to Union's post-season basketball playoff hopes · on Tuesday night, as the Ephmen outshot the Garnet cagers down the stretch en route to a hard- fought 92-85 win. The loss snapped a . six-game Union winning streak and dropped the Garnet's record to 16-3. Williams now stands at a healthy 12-5. Coach Gary Walter's charges needed a win on Tuesday night to lock up a bid to the NCAA Division II College Regional playoffs. With the Williams loss, however, the Garnet will now have to sweat out a close decision. Union was ranked third in New York State going into the contest, trailing Buffalo State and C. W. Post, and only two of the top three teams will get into the tourney. The key to the Williams win, was not the incredible homecourt advantage provided by the Gph's antiquated homecourt, Lasell Gym, but the aggressive play of the Eph frontcourt. Williams' burly forwards Dick Creen and Dick Small, both 6-3, muscled their way inside repeatedly against Union defenders to score on close-in drives and draw important fouls. Small bucketed 26 points to lead all Eph scorers while Creen added 15 tallies. Williams also got a big boost from their hot-shooting backcourt duet of Vern Manley and Rich Max. The 5-10 Manley played an outstanding game, throwing in 14 points - mostly on spectacular jumpers from way outside. Max played aggressive defense against Union's Jim Tedisco and added 16 points. Tedisco shook off Max's defensive play to put together one of the finest games of his varsity career. The junior hit...for 38 points, and in the proc.ess shattered the all-time Union scoring record held by Dave Santos. Tedisco now has totaled 1126 points in just two seasons on the varsity, compared to Santos• total of 1117 points. Williams controlled play during most of the first half, owning a 36-23 margin with 5:42 left to play in the opening stanza. The Ephmen led 47-41 at the intermission after a Union rally, sparked by Tedisco's 14 points, closed the gap somewhat. The Ephmen continued to dominate play in the second half, jumping out to a ten point lead, 58-48, midway· through the period. The Garnet, however, put together another spectacular surge, tallying ten straight points to ·knot the count at 58-alL Moments later the Dutchmen battled into a 62-61 edge, their only lead of the game. By this time the tough inside play of the Williams frontcourt had worked the Gamet defendel\$ i~to serious foul trouble. With 8:00 to play, Tom Bacher, Mike Doyle, and Dave Shames all had four fouls and were forced to lay back on defense. Tedisco picked up his fourth personal moments later. Down the stretch the contest developed into a shooting duel as the Dutchmen were forced to slack off on defense and attempt to match the Ephs point for point. The two teams traded buckets until Manley bombed from way outside at 5:49 to put Williams up, 74-72. The Ephmen pulled into the driver's seat in the game's final moments but the Garnet rallied Late Surge Wins 13th . For Yearling Hoopers by MARTY BERMAN In an old-fashioned barn-burner on Tuesday night, the Gamet frosh basketball team squeaked past Williams' yearlings 59-55, on Bill Carmody's 12-foot jump shot with four seconds s~o~ng on. the cl?ck. The shot broke a 55-55 tie and led Union to their nmth VIctory m a row and thirteenth win in fourteen outings - t~s one coming at tiny Lasell Gym in Williamstown, Massachusetts. All the credit for the victory has to go to Carmody. Not expected to play more than a few minutes at a time due t~· an illness, Carmody sat out the entire first half and during those 20 mmutes some of the worst basketball ever seen by this reporter was played. College level it Wasn't - high school maybe. Both teams contributed to the debac!e, missing numerous foul shots and exhibiting poor shooting, horrible ball-handling, and d~spicable passing. Both teams pressed and the contest become a Wide-open affair, put play was so sloppy that neither team could buy a ba~ket. With seven minutes left in the half the count stood at 14-lln1 favor of Williams, who left the court at the turnaround leading 31-22. Coach Bill Scanlon started Carqwdy in the second half out. of desperation, and immediate results occurred. Carmody was ~ble to settle down the Garnet defense and control the attack With the generalship he's become known for. With 12:07 left in the contest the Dutchmen had cut the deficit to three, at 41-38. A minute later Herb Reichenbach stole the ball and scored on a drive, capping a five-point outburst which perche~ the Garnet on t~p at 43-41. The game see-sawed back and forth unhl Carmody threw m his twistingjumper at the end. :Vter he completed his t~ree,-point.play, Carmody added two more chanty tosses to complete Umon s s~ormg: Carmody, who is beginning to look more and more !Ike Jim Tedisco's backcourt mate on the varsity next year, tallied 16 points on a perfect four-for-four performance ~tom the fie.ld a~d ~n eight-for-ten effort from the line. The frosh sensation was an mspiratwn to the team with four blocked shots and several clutch assists to round out his great show. Al Westbrook led the Union scorers with 17 points and Tom Combs added 12 markers. Combs and Westbrook kept the Dutchmen in the tilt until Carmody came on with his heroics. . . Tonight the Garnet yearlings go up against ~bany ~un:10r College in the Capital City in quest of the Capttal Dtstnct League championship. The Dutchmen lead Albany by a half-game. as a result of Albany Pharmacy's upset win over JCA. A win toni~ht puts ita':\ay for the Garnet with only a league game left after this one, agamst fourth place Siena. one m.ore time behind Tedisco. The Garnet managed to slice the · by MARK MINDEL . Williams margin to 85-83 with With an undefeated season riding on the line, the 1~-0 Um?n 1:17 remaining, but the Ephmen College wn:stlers ,take 011 St. Lawrence tomorrow afternoon m ~hat ts, tallied six points in the last 18 as Coach Gerry Everling says, \definitely our toughest matcli of the seconds to ice the win. year.\ Four of ·those tallies came at St. Lawrence came to the capital district today to wrestle an RPI the free-throw line as the Garnet squad which union already conquered, so they. should .be 8-2 .for the were forced to foul to get the Qmatch. The only other common opponent Is Hobart, which St. ball. Doyle, Bache~, and Shames Lawrence thrashed 31-3, and Union beat 24-12. all fouled out m the final the unique thing abe1,1t tome;>rrow's match is that the. best wrestle~s moments of play. . from each squad will face each other. The Ga~e.t's . c;lynal1llc The Garnet may have lost theu lightweight duo, 12-0 Al Calabro and Mark Zullo, wrll proba'bly be cool do~n the . stretch as a res~lt facing their stiffest challenge .of the year. . . . . of the mcred1ble. crowd_ .~m:>e Heavyweights Gary Morris (10~2) and How1e Benedict (lO-l-1) Wlll generated by _the Wilha?Is face, respectively, undefeated Gale Knull, a 190 p0under. from rooters and ampl1fied by. the tiny Schenectady's Mont Pleasant High, and heavyweight Norm Bell, who gym. Three costly traveling ~alls, · hasn't lost a match in two years. · an errant pass, and two missed St. Lawrence is also strong at 134 and 142,. but the Gamet may be free throws .by Geoff ~alker able to steal the match away from them with good wrestling from killed U~on's momentum m the middleweights Bill Benedict, Gary Gurney, Tracey Rich, Pat Wa'rdell~ Garnet's fmal rally of the game. or surprising Mike Sciacca. . ' . . . . . . · The Dtuchmen return to the St. Lawrence brings eight out of the lOwrestlers here who thrashed Memorial Fieldhouse court us 23-9 last year up at Canton .. But, as Coach Everling point¢d out, tomorrow night at 8:00PM when Union's boys were intimidated last year by a r~w~y S.~.u .• crowd. \I'd they host a weak Steven~ Tech like to see a lot 0 f people here Saturday,\ satd Everling. 'The crowd Five. Coach Walters realizes th~t was a definite factor in the Kings Point and Colgate matches, and the team must win big in their could make a real difference against St. Lawrence;'' final two games to have a shot ~t By the way, with three matches and one tournament left A1 Cal~bro the NCAA t'?urney, and he ts is well-on his way to capturing the troph:y for the. most team pomt~. sure to have hts squad up for the Calabro has 61 pts., while Zullo (51) 1 HoWit; Bened~ct (47), and Morns Stevens encounter. (41) are still in the running. Carmody A Star Of FutUre by GARY LEIDERMAN It's halftime at La'Sell Gym in Williamstown, Mass.,. and the Union freshmen are in trouble. It's 31-22, and the Williams' frosh are ahead. Could this be the same Garnet Yearlings who've lost only one fluke game to R.P.I in the thirteen they've played? Sure, Bill Carmody;s got the flu and is watching the game from the bench, but he's only 5'10\ and he couldn't have prevented us from committing 13 turnovers, could he? After all, he's no Tedisco. Wait a minute: he's starting the second half! I thought he's got the flu? Well, I guess now we'll find out what he can do. Jump ball ... Union. Bucket by Tom Combs - down to s.even. Drive by Ed Zablocki around Herb Reichenbach ... aww, wake up Herb ... BLOCKED BY CARMODY! Another long one by Combs. Carmody fo Westbrook wide open in the lane - two! Carmody shoots - he's fouled. Technical on Williams ... Bill on the line for three -. swish! ~ ftont·rim, back-rim, swish! - side-rim, drops through! Down to 2! Jumper by Carmody - still 2. Bill swipes it, drives ... TIE GAME! Steal by Reichenbach- drive the length of the court - Garnet lead by two! 34 seconds· to go, Union 55, Williams 55, Williams ball. .. 2() seconds STOLEN BY O'BRIEN!. IT'S NOT TO LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. Join Our Wine Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store (Across the Field) 1505 VanVranken Ave. Carmody, ready to fall on his sickly face, brings it up, looks for the open man. Bill into the lane ... four seconds ... SHOOT! running mate in the backcourt, one who can shoot, dribble, pass, defend with the best - one BltL CARMODY. 10-footer ... foul ... bounce,..-.------------, bounce, SWISH - BASKET GOOD AND A FOUL! Pandemonium from 200 Garnet supporters. Final: Union 59, Williams 55 plus 16 points for M1. Carmody, including four assists and four blocked shots - all in the second half! PART TWO And so the Union freshmen have won 13 games and lost one. But more importantly, next year Mr. Tedisco will get a top notch Graubart & Sons may run small ads, but they have big values. $.-.~:.·\-. -. -~~~~ ~·=··--·~·: .... ·~·:~~ ScbellieC&ady' 1 famou di&Jaoad abop, (for three geoeraU.ou) 16& ~ay St. THREE UNION GRI\DUATES IN FAMILY r.~---------~~-~~--~ . 1 LIP THIS COUPONl3'XCj.=f 1 ~~------~-~-----·~· :~:Buy 2-Get 1 Free!l~: I M I WITH THIS COUPON 1 ~~ I ·~- ~ IMI ' rs EITHill NEBA le,Q I 1 P;• Mil . :H• tr!l GIANT (ll ROAST BEEF ·=I· ID.I·SUBMARINE SANDWICH ·=: 181 OFFER EXPIRES NOV.lS, 1970 h~~· 1R: GOOD AT ALL LOCATIONS I !'ill IJil· OPEN 1 DAYS A WE!.~-- .. a• •!&Dza.P'i'iiS(QU;;~· ~------------~----~ WE CARRY A FULL LINE OF GROCERIES, MEATS, BEVERAGES, ASSORTED SNACK ITEMS, ETC. · MEMBER .BUY-RITE STORES OPEN 8 A.M. TILL 10 P.M. 7 .DAYS A WEEK ·~---------~------~----------~--~-------··- • • ••• • • ,· I· • • •• ~ I ~ I I , I ~'tr. '• : t v '; ~ • • I .F ap] Ch Un 1 rep per Ea1 inc an< ' ex( of per Scl ~ Isn of·1 has I big Za! the Gui resf l A D I St) Di: pre nig \ar dis COI rec by Du Ha pre wh leu sch de! bri an< weJ pla wrc \co an< a finl rna eXI ' L she .ad< ma drt \eu 73~ cor .Ne·

. :• (',. .. • • •• • • .. . ! I .. . a ol,j i •I ' I I ~:,. (Ji .. I '.; (:1. '} .e. ) ·~. . - . . . • • VOLUME 100 NUMBER 31 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. FEBRUARY 23, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Cohen,. Pressler, and Greenhouse Beaux Arts Trio Perfofms Thursday The noted musical ensemble, the Beaux Arts Trio of New York, will appear in concert at Union on Thursday, February 25 in Memorial Chapel at 8:30p.m. The coneert is a part of the Schenectady, Museum- Union College eoncert series. Now in its 14th season, the Beaux Arts Trio has established a reputation as one of the nation's leading musical groups, with sellout performances in the United States, Europe, Africa and .the Middle East. The Trio's popularity has brought it many return engagements, including eight successive years at Hunter College in New York City and 12 annual performances in Montreal, Quebec. . Winners of the coveted ''Grand Prix du Disque,\ awarded for excellence in recorded music, the Trio has recorded the complete trios of Beethoven, Ravel, Schubert, and Dvorak. Here, tlie ensemble y,ill perfo-rm Haydn's \Trio in E flat,\ Ravel's \Trio in A mirtor,\ and Schubeds 1 'Trio in B flat, Opus 99.\ Members of the Trio are pianist Menahem Pressler, a brilliant Israeli-American virtuoso; cellist Bernard Greenhouse, once a student of the Spanish mastl!r, Pablo Casals; and violinist Isidore Cohen, who has played with the noted Juilliard and Budapest quartets. Last fall, the concert series got off to a fine start with two other highly~praised ensembles touring the country today, the I Solisti di Zagreb and the Guarneri Quartet. Audienc-es were enthusiastic, and the performers received unanimous praise from reviewers. For the Guarneri concert, in fact, crowds turned out in numbers usually reserved for popular~ or unpopular - political figures. Union students and faculty are admitted free, student dates for $1. Martin RepOrts Increase ·In Tuition and Room Rates A tuition increase of $100 for the 1971~72 academi~ year and a $200 raise for the following year, was announced this week by College officials. Tuition, currently $2,400, will be raised to $2,500 next year and $2,700 the following year, according to a decision made by ~he Board of Trustees. In a five page letter mailed to parents of Union students earlier this week, President Harold C. Martin cited operating deficits in six of the past seven years as the reason for the increases. \Every dollar of deficit is a drain on the capital resources on which the college must rely for income; every deficit year diminishes the capacity of the College to admit students from unaffluent families and to respond intelligently to those developments in program necessary for educational health.\ Martin continued, \We have therefore committed ourselves to actions which, over the next two- year period, will produce an even balance between income and expense.\ Martin noted the college has already taken steps designed to bring about a balanced budget. · Among the measures he cited were the freeZing of supply and service budgets, limiting salary and wage increases and the suspension of some college publications. \The one thing we are trying to protect, and I believe shall successfully protect, is the educational program itself.\ Martin explained that the college has three sources of dormitories will be increased to income: tuition, endowment, and $510. gifts or grants. In recent years, In concluding his letter to the gifts and grants have netted parents, Martin said that nearly one-third of a million \Despite austerity, good days are dollars a year. Endowment has ahead for Union, and I hope the provided about one million financial demands we must make more. The remainder, nearly four on you will show a return you million, has come from tuition, consider eminently satisfactory in and out of the four million the quality oJ experience your collected t:his year, more than a sons and daughters have here at half-million were paid out in Union.\ scholarships. Martin added that \Parents (or students themselves) are paying this year about fifty-two percent of the cost of instruction at Union, less the amounts they have received in State and Federal scholarship programs ... \ Along with the tuition hike, Martin announced plans to increase dormitory rent \for most classes of accomodation.\ However, these rates will remain constant the following year, \unless events we do not expect occur,\ the letter said. Promotions Announced . The promotion of eight members of the faculty, including three to the rank of associate professor, was announced by Dr. Harold C. Martin, college president. Paul 0. LeClerc, was named associate professor of French effective Jan. I, 1971. A graduate of Holy Cross College, he did graduate work at the University of Paris and received his doctorate from Columbia University. LeClerc has been a member of the Union faculty since 1966. Christopher C. Jones was harned an associate professor of physics, effective Sept. 1, 1971. He joined the Union faculty in 1967 after completing his doctorate at Iowa State University. Jones is a graduate of Hobart College and earned his master's degree from Johns Hopkins University. All That's Smoked, Shot, Dropped, Discussed At The Drug Seminar Recognizing the fact that rise in tuiti0n and room costs without corresponding rises in scholarship funds will place added strains on middle- and low- income families, Martin announced the availability of the number of on-campus jobs available for students. \More students who believe they can save money by living off-campus will be permitted to do so. And we shall continue to make loans to the extent of our capacity to students who have to borrow, though I must be explicit in saying that our once considerable loan reserve is now dep.leted and we are limited to lending the amounts repaid in the previous year.\ A sampling of dormitory rates for next year reveals increases in all dorms with the exception of West College which, for the first time, will be open to upperclassmen. Double rooms in West will cost $450 as opposed to $480, to provide less expensive accomodations for fresh~n and Upperclassmen. In Fox and Davidson, singles will be raised from $600 to $675, and suites from $540 to $615. Singles in Richmond and South will be $630, and doubles in those two Robert S. Sha'rlet was promoted to associate professor of political science, effective Sept. l, 1971. He is a graduate of Brandeis University, received his doctorate from the University of Indiana, and joined the Union faculty in 1967. Robert G. Peck was named an assistant professc:rr of English. A graduate of Yale University with a doctorate from Harvard University, he joined the Union faculty in 1969. by DA VIO (;~l'JTI Members of Dr. Twitty J. Styles' \Nutrition Health, and Disease\ Comp. Ed. course, presented a Drug Seminar last night in which they attempted \an experimental approach -to the dissemination of information\ concerning drug&. The program opened with the recitation of the poem \Dreams\ by the 19th century poet Paul Dunbar. Two students, Howie Haimes and Tom Tripp, then presented \a human experience\ which consisted of the reading of letters written by area high school drug users with slides depicting beautiful scenes, in brilliant colors, taken in cities and in the countryside. The slides were accompanied by music played op the guitar. One student wrote that he used drugs to \come to terms with myself,\ and another said that he searched for a drug suited to himself and finally settled upon cocaine. \It makes me ·feel cool,\ he explained. Statistics were presented that showed that the majority of drug addicts -in th~:; United States are males and that the main reason drugs a.re taken is the desire for \euphoria.\ It was noted that 73% of the country's addicts are · c0ncentrated in ten cities, with New Y otk City alone containing 30,000. Death, in over 50% of the cases, is due to overdose. A Union student, who described himself as a \druggie ' took the stage and related some personal experiences with marijuana. He told the group that he had been smoking for l !.6 years. and that the \human sensual pleasure\ of smoking has become somewhat deadened. \There is no more euphoria,\ he stated, \it is just something to do.\ The student said he continues to smoke because \music sounds really, really nice,\ and he enjoys the \sensory stimulation.\ Another student said that in his first experience with drugs he smoked ten joints and three bowls of hash. \It started to hit me after a while,\ he noted. He later discovered that the hash had been tr-eated with DMT; he \came down\ after three days. Class members then presented research findings on several different types of drugs; the most memorable· fact was a case in which a young wife smoked marijuana once and has since been unable to have an orgasm. Dr. Antonio Versaci, of the Albany Medical College, spoke briefly before opening the meeting to questions. He stated that grass \is an addicting substan¢e ~ ~ot the stuff, being used around here, but I saw it in Korea.\ He further stated that marijuana users \can kill and not know it,\ because the drug blocks the \social centers of the brain causing the users to lose control of themselves. He called for more \true\ information on the drugs currently used in this country. The Social Committee has announced a major change in. its plans for \New Performers' Weekend.\ The group scheduled fot Saturday night, \Freeway was forced to cancel, due to scheduled appearances at the fillmore East and on the Tonight Show. However, Manhattan Transfer, starring Gene Pistilli, will appear as planned on Friday evening, at 8:30 in Memorial Chapel. Manhattan Transfer will give a FREE concert; previously tickets were to be sold for $1. Peter R. Erskine and Henry M. Wei! were named, assistant professors in the department of the arts. Both are graduates of Yale University and joined the Union faculty in 1968. John R. McNamara was named an assistant professor of economics. He is a graduate of Columbia University and did his doctorate work at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Peter L. T obiessen joined the Union biological sciences faculty last fall. A graduate of Wesleyan University, he received his master's degree from Pennsylvania State University and his doctorate from Duke University. The Mountebanks are presenting BAAL, Bertolt Brecht's first play, on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, February 15, 26 and i.7 and again on the following weekend, March 4, 5, and 6 at 8:30 p.m. in Nott Memorial Theater. Admission is free to Union Students and $1.00 for their date,s. All other tickets are $2.00. Reservations and information are . available at the box office from 1 to 5 p.m.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 23, 1971 Committee· On Gooerf1ance:-.:~ Editor-in-Chief Peter J. We'ingold Excerpts Of Their Report. Managing Editor' James E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. News Editor Pei.er Bicke~man Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong Business Manager Llo)<l Bims Asst •. Business Managers Joseph Achenbaum Doug Binder National Adv. Mgr. Mark Shulman Sports Editor . William.J. Holleran Asst. Sports Editor Mark Shue.oll Editors Emeriti William Ouzer Henry G. Fein Contributing Editor Richard L. Kramer Photography Editor Jody Saslow Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey l'ubli11~ Tue.d~ys ~nd !'rid~ yo durin¥- t11e ..:l)oot_ :,:~:ar by tile !lllt~nt hody ol timon Colle~t. Scbc:~y; ~.Y .. Nlltlln':-1 Advent,..~!! Rcpi'Cl<Cnlauve. N;ttional Ed~unnal AchenaSJng Se.rv\\' IrK:., ( ollcgc Puhhshcr.; Representative. 360 l.umgton Ave .. N. V.C. f.dotunal. ollkc. Old Gym. U11inn Cdllege. Publication Offtcc •. n.e Wor:ld Puhhcation•. 771 Sl.lltc Stn:cl .. Schenectady. N.Y. 12307. ~ 2356. tmercd an the Sc::hcnectody post office liS Second Cla5ll Mail Mattei'.- Suhscnptom1.:!0 ants a eery. Sf> a year dc:li'len:d anywhere in the Uniled St;ata. · . . ~ Squeeze on the Middle Once again the now seemingly inevitable news has been released of a two yea.r tuition rise of three hundred dollars, this time accompanied by a probable increase in most living acqommodation rates. There is no doubt that the increase is necessary and part of an overall austerity budget which has cut services slightly and held faculty salary increases to a bare minimum. But its necessity does not eliminate its consequences. The middle class student, who has for years formed the intellectual center of Union and schools like Union is now being forced into public universities, where tuition, although ' increasing, is dramatically less than that of a school in Union's class. In this time of conflicting priorities (arts or sciences; graduate studies or small college; traditional or \freer\ university) this most pressing problem is being quietly overlooked. Union is being priced out of the range of its main contributing body of students. In a few years at the present rate, as was said at the time of the previous tuition hike, Union will become a place for the very rich and the Very poor; the former able to afford it and the latter supported by government grants and guilty administrative consciences. For now the answer, if it can ·be called one since it is obviously so temporary a measure, is to use more and more ef the tuition increases for scholarships and to provide more grant-in-aid jobs at better than the present ridiculously low wage rate. The long term solution if Union is to remain solvent and operating (the worth of such a situation being, of course, questignable) is for the trustees to stop kidding themselves about balancing the budget, and to secure through a united small college lobby effort a substantial federal and state subsidy. Governanc-e Repo.rt The Governance Committee report was received by the editors late yesterday evening and because of the far reaching consequences of the report, editorial comment wiH be reserved for the next issue, at which time comments from the college community will be welcome. PROPOSAL #1: Th~t the present Faculty Council and All,. College Council be replaced by a College Senate. a, Function: The Coll~ge Senate shall be the legislative body of Union College and as such it will deal with appropriate .academic and non-academic matters placed on its agenda by the Agenda Committee (see below). b, Composition: The College Senate shall be composed of twelve elected · faculty members (at its inception, the present members of the Faculty Council?; six elected undergraduate .and one elected graduate students; the two academic deans; the Dean of Students; and the president as its chairman. c, Agenda Committee: The agenda of the College Senate shall be determined by the Senate's Agenda Committee which will be made up of the president as its chairman, a member elected from and by the faculty delegation and a student elected from and by the student delegation. Proposals to be considered by the College Senate, including most committee reports (see below), will be submitted to the three members of the Agenda Committee. d, Election of Student Members: The President of the Student Senate shall be a member of the College Senate. One undergraduate and the one graduate student shall be members-at-large, chosen in campus-wide elections by their respective constituencies. The remaining four undergraduate students shall be elected according to their academic affiliation. Students majoring in each Division shall elect· one representative to the College Senate. Student representatives shall be elected for a one-year term at meetings of appropriate majors held during the Spring Term. Spencer On Governance Report ''Preferable To The Status Quo'' by WALTER A. SPENCER, Student Senate President The ad hoc Committee on Governance was meeting and have the full rights of participation appointed by President Martin in September. It was with the exception of the vote. There is currently a made up of the thr-ee Deans; one faculty member bill in the New York State Legislature which would from each division; a maintainance man· a allow eighteen year olds to serve on the Board at secretary; and eight students, seven undergraddates Cornell University. Although this bill, if passed, and one graduate student. The committee was would not affect Union it would set a precedent chaired by Professor Gati of Political Science and which we could hopefully follow. held open hearings and distributed questionnaires The Committee recommended the establishment to the faculty and to 120 students. of a Committee on Budget and Priorities which The Governance report is summarized by the would be made up of eight faculty members, four proposals which are printed in this issue of students, and three administrators. The Committee Concordiensis. \will keep appropriate campus constituencies There are two points about the new College informed· on budgetary matters... It will review Senate worthy of elaboration: First, the Committee college priorities and consult both with appropriate chose to elect student representatives to the College offices of the administration and the Board's Senate academic by division because the College Finance Committee. Its recommendations, if any, Senate's primary concern will be with academic will be submitted to the College Seriate.\ matters. We did not feel that it was fitting to choose The report has been distributed to each faculty people for a Senate to decide academic matters on member and to each ·student Senator and copies are the basis of class, or living area, Second, there is a on reserve in the Library; Students who want provision in the report which cuts faculty and personal copies may~pick them up in_ Dean Malloy's administration voting strength on non-academic office or in the Libr~ry. matters so that When non-academic matters, such as The Student Senate will meet on Tuesday, March dogs on campus and parietal hours, are. discussed, 2nd to discuss the report and the meeting will be students will have seven votes and faculty members open to all interested students. The All College and administrators will have a total of six. Council will meet next week to discuss the report Academic departments tilat already have students which is important to the Council because the sitting with them will continue in their present report abolishes the Council, whose duties would be fashion. It is the intention of the Committee that taken over by the College Senate. The Student. students will attend all department meetings except Senate, however, will remain the same. those at which Comprehensive Exam questions are In summary, the report gives students a Vote on written and departmental prizes are decided upon. academic matters, gives students the power to The Committee spent many hours debating the appoint their own members to College Committees, . question of student representation on the Board of gives students ali input in the Budget making Trustees. Some members of the Committee felt that process, and gives :students voting membership on students should serve as non-voting members of the Board of Trustee Committees and associate Board. Other members felt strongly that students membership on the Board itself. The students who should have votes. The Committee was limited by served on the Committee were not totally satisfied the fact that students must be 21, under New York by all the provisions of the report: but neither were State Law, to serve as voting members of the the faculty members or the administrators. For the Board. We felt that age should not be a requirement students I feel that this represents a big step forward for students to represent other students on the from the status quo. When all is said and done 1 Board. Thus we proposed that students be associate think most of us, however unhappy we may be with members. This is not intended to be a junior this report, will prefer it to the status qtto. membership and students will attend the full PROPOSAL #2: That the · of his or her sophomore year for present committee structures be a two-year term, thus serving on revised; comm-itte·es be .the Board from June of their consolidated·; committee sophomore year to January of members be chosen .by an elected . their senior year. For the first' Faculty Committee on year, a junior will be elected for a Committees and the Student one-year tertn. Committee on Committees, c, Nature o·f Student respe.ctively; ~~d that the Membership:. Recommending · chairman of each College associate membership to students Committee, witll the exception of is made in view of obstaCles the Bud:get and Priorities prescribed by New York State committee, be desigqated by the Law whichi at present, deny president from among the voting membership on govemhtg . members chosen by the two bodies to persons 21 years old or Committees on Committees. ·younger. However, we do PROPOSAL #4: That at least assume, and so propose, (a) ·that one student be elected by his voting privileges wilf be extended peers as a voting representative to student .representatiVes on· all to each academic dep11rtment; issues to which lega! prohibitiotts and that no department shall . do not apply; and(b).that if, anC;i · hold less than one meeting per when, the appropriate· · Law · is . term with student changed, the· Board extend full representatjve(s) invited. . voting · ·privileges to student a, Number of Student representatives on all issues. Representatives: In departments d, Committee Meetings:· Prior with five or fewer full-time to the October · ·and June faculty on the staff, tilere shall be meetings of the .Board of one student representative; with Trustees, the Board's seven six or more full-time faculty on Standing Comniittee·s the staff; there shall be two excepting the Executive student representatives. Committee ~ shall meet with b, Election of Students: To corresponding College qualify, a student representative Committees. The agenda for must be . majoring in the these meetings shall be prepared appropriate department and be a in advance by the appropriate member of the junior or senior chairman of each Standin·g Class. Representatives will be Committee of the Board · in elected at the beginning of each cooperation with the president academic year at a meeting of and the appropriate chainnan ·of departmental majors. Students each cerresponding College with majors not assigned to a Committee. Proposals on the department shall, for this agenda of such joint committee purpose, be considered members meetings· shall be properly of the department to which their considered and voted·upon, and, academic adviser belongs. if the vote is favorable,· PROPOSAL #5: That the forwarded ·for final· decision to Board of Trustees be requested the Board of Trustees. Joint to seek changes in the College committee meetings · shall be Charter and to adopt changes in chaired by the chairman of the the By-Laws. of the Board so that appropriate Standing·Committee the president .and two elected of the Board of his members of the faculty be added representative. The President and as regular, voting members of the Vice-President of . the Student Board. of. Trustef.ls; that two Senate shall continue to take part elected members of the student in the activities of the Board's bocly· be added as associate Committee on Student Life. members of the Board of Trustees; and that the ·Standing Committees of the Board and appropriate College Committees meet in common session at least twice a year for the purpose of exchanging views and for the preparation of formal recommendations, or proposals to the Board. b, Elections of Students: Student members must,. by the time they become associate members of the Board, be junior (or, for the first time, senior) full- time students. The e'Iection will take place in a campus-wide direct election, administered and supervised by the Student Senate. Each year one student shall be elected during the spring WANTED Part Time Help S2.2SHour Warehouse WORK Call 356·0133 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Ou• C¢mfortoble Dining Room Opp. Th• Brownell G¢• on NoH Str.et Open Doily 10 to l A.M. Svn.davs 5 P.M. io • A.M. -· The Best Wines & l.iquo~rs 10% OFF For Students Sol L:ipstein LIQUORS, ·Inc. 817 McClellan st. Sehdy. 3 71-0386 .... .. i i ~ t .) .. J · .. I ,.. .. <~· .· ' \ ~' \:~ •• .... 1 ~ ' j \ ., ' ' . ' '} ,. ~ t' 11) . ·~ ' c 11 I r s d a a p d \1 a l c a p C• b p Sl p l. VI a 18 a c~ t1 aJ tt al P• sl S< ff a1 C< m oJ Ul oJ in a re m L1 pl pl m ar bf ra Stl in u w cc or th fo re an fa

) ' ' .. . ) . I t '~ . l:! . ·' 'J. .!I . ·~ Letter To the Editor: I should like to use Bill Otizer's comments concerning policy making at Union (Concordiensis, February 16, 197l) to make :a few remat;ks of ·my. own on the subje<;t. . Bernard Crick has offered a definition ef the term ''politics\ . as interaction amQng members of a society .. The key to Crick's postulate is a combination of dialogue and compromise. I would personally like to see such a brand of politics here at Union. If the college is to exist as a community rather than merely as a collection of ·people, then the people who constitute that community are going to have to be ineluded in the policy making process. It seems to me that o:ne step in the direction of realizing participatory management at Union wol,lld be, in Mr. Ouzer'~ words, to \ ... foste.r an atmosphere of trust where there is. now one of suspicion.\ This is an area wh~re au members of the college community might lend their attention. Trust begins in recogmzmg another person's position, and in this sense are Ouzer's remarks about President Martiny.s position particu1ary valuable.. I should like to make public somet!ling whic.h I have repeatedly said in private which agrees with one of Mr. buzer's contentions - Dr. Martin is a man currently under a great deal of pressure. He holds the unenvia,ble position of mediator of alumn~ student,. and faculty interests. lie must also answer to a hoard of trustees. which has recently given ltim a very difficult . mandate to balance the budget. Let us .. 1\S· students certainJy proceed with our .interests, but proceed with .this thought in mi:nd: That the president must answer to demands. .which go beyond the relatively short ranged interests of most students. Tlris is· not to say that the students need sacrifice their role in the decision making process at Union. Indeed, it is the students who must live with the consequences of policy decisions on a day to day basis - and there are many single days in a four or five year stay. In this respect I again quote Mr. Ouzer and agree that students as well as faculty should \ ... expect fully Seve-ral students have expressed their desire to do independent ,studies on Hermann Hesse, but .only a very limited number can be accommodated. Interested students must obtain \the instructor's permission before registerin:g for the spring term . Mr. Freund (H. C. 210) will receive applications Up to March 10. * * * * Zero Population Growth, Inc., a nationwide organization formed to stop the · population explosion here a:nd a:broad, is an·xious to form a Schenectady chapter in their N.Y. State Federation. An active club is typically involved in activities such as establishing lobbies, birth control clinics, contracting !lpot ads in local news , media, and sponsoring speakers. There are already some 25 members in the Schenectady community, Interested in becoming a member? Call John Robbins, 372- 0172. * * * * A recruiter from Macy's Department Store, will be in the Placement Office on Wednesday, March 3, 1971 to interview seniors interested in Retail Management, Mel'chandising and running a department. Sign up in the Placement Office if you are interested. No special degrees required. * * * * reasoned, well thought out replies from the administration.,.\ As an example, my concern over the· proposed concert at the Wallace Girling Center is not whether ot: not the concert is ultimately held. My .concern is rather with the methods of decisions making on such·issues and the points 'df view which go into each decision. Perhaps if the members of the social committee had been graced by the spirit of participatory management . and had \ been invited to the Monday morning staff meeting where the administration first officially \heard\ the proposal, the whole matter might have been intelligently handled without the incidents which eventually ensued. Bob Ditter, '72 Waterbeds A LIQUID LOVE•IN Special Student Price $64 Sold only at Knox Street Waterbeds East : 138 Knox St, Albany eff Madi~on -· Between Lark & New Scotian~ '--.....:.......-_4__;,34-6508 WINTER - LOVE IT OR LEAVE lT! - - . .~ 8 Day Week. in the Florida SUQ Stay 7. Days-8th . Oav Free Fro~ ~s Little as $103-p~r p~rsbn · Go By \Heek\ Now! ' . . HECK'S INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL lSi Barrett St. Scbdy, :N.Y; · 346-3431 Specializing in student group travel ' . . . . . . FILM HAPS PRESENTS \THE CINCINNATI KID\ Starring STEVE McQUEEN ANN-MARGRET TUESDAY WELD EDWARD G. ROBINSON WED. FEB. 24 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 SS016 $1.00 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 23, 1971 PAGE 3 Bendix Corporation-Electronic Components Division will be recruiting in the Placement Office on Thursday, March 4, 1971. They are interested in EE and ME degrees .. Sign tip in the Placement Office if you are interested in having an appointment with this rer;ruiter. * * * * Russell Sage College will present the fourth 50 minute color film, entitled \Man - The Measure of All Things,\ in the CIVILISATION series on March 1, 1971, at 7:30 p.m, in the Schacht Fine Arts Center on the Sage campus. Admission is free and the public is welcome. * * * * For all persons interested in the National Ski Patrol, the First Aid meetings will begin tomorrow, Wednesday, February 24, 7:30 p.m., in the Social Sciences Building. Attendance is nlandatory. A guest speaker will be present. The First Aid course is open to any student. For more information contact Ginny Bade, room 418 Richmond. * * * * Lost: one slide rule. My name is on it. Please call 346-1850 and ask for Alan Kobn. * * * * WRUC (640 kc) will broad~st live the Hamilton-Union basketball game, this Wednesday evening starting at 8 p.m. This is the last game of the season, and a win for Union might secure an invitation for the Garnet ace-five to the small college NCAA regional tournament. * * * * Short Stories, Essays, Poems, Drawings, Photographs are now being accepted for publication by the IDOL. Deadline for the final issue·· of 1970~71 is April 7, Material submitted prior to tbe end of the winter term has the best chance for publication this spring. Submissions may be made at the Student Activities office. For further information contact Jiim Lieb at 377-9714 or Cheryl Brown at 370-1835. · * * * * A:ny upperclass independents who would like to eat all their meals at Betil Theta Pi fraternity should call T0ny Faga at 372,. 7713 for further information. * * * * The Youngbloods, Sugarloaf, and Jeff Cain will be featured at the RPI Saturnalia concert, Feb. 26, at 8:30 p.m. in the RPI field House. The Younghloods, known primarily for their interpretation of Dino Valente's folk classic \Get Together,\ will feature a program of rhythm and blues with contemporary folk and country blues. Sugarloaf has a harder blues sound, and Jeff Cain is a reformed child molester who tells witty stories of his sex life behind bars. * * * * The International Relations Club has announced that on Monday, March 1 at 8:00 p.m. in SS 016 it will present a lecture by Professor Bernard S. Morris. Morris, who is a professor of Political Science at Indiana University, is scheduled to spea'k on \The Greening of Imperialism.\ This presentatnm is the latest in an IRC series entitled \Failures of American Foreign Policy.\ Professor Morris has written extensively concerning Communist foreign policy and political organization. He is currently serving as President of the Conference on Communist Studies, a branch of the American Political Science Association. * * * * Dr. John Badgley of Johns Hopkins University will speak . tonight in SS 115 at 7 p.m. on \Asian Development: Prospects'' and Prognosis.\ The lecture was arranged by the non-western studies seminar, a cooperative student program sponsored jointly by Union, Skidmore, Albany State, RPI, St. Rose and Siena. Beginning with the next issue of CONCORDIENSIS absolutely no letters to the editor, blithers, announcements, or unsolicited articles will be accepted for publication unless they are typed, double or triple spaced. ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS Applications for all forms of financial aid (scholarship, loan, job) for the academic year 1971- 72 will be available on Monday, March I, 1971, in the Student Aid Office, Old Gym Hall, first floor. Office hours are from 9 a.m. to noon and from I :30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. ,A Master application must be returned to this office not later than May 1, 1970. A Parents' Confidential Statement must be filed with the College Scholarship Service by May I, 1971; it is advisable to secure the necessary papers prior to reaviflg for spring recess and take them home to parents at that time. It should be remembered that finar,;'i.:tl aid is not automatic and mus<, therefore, be renewed yearly by applying through the above procedure. If you had financial aid this year and want to be considered for renewal for next year you must reapply. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FOUNTAIN SfiliiiC£ One block .from Brownell Gate ~MAMA .BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We Cater To Students The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI •. alld SAT, 135 Nott Terrace Mon.--Thurs. 10 a.m. - 11 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m.- 12 a.m. Sun. 10 a.m. - 11 p.m.

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 23, 1971 Concordy · Sports Cage Routs Steuens Tech; Hapless Hamilton Last Foe by MARK SHUGOLL Union's basketball team wrapped up its home campaign in effortless fasjlion on Saturday night, demolishing a harmless team from Stevens Tech by an incredible 90-40 score. The fifty point margin of victory set a record as the most lopsided win in Garnet historv. The previous mark w~s established in a 56-8 shellacking of Albany Law way back in 1907. The win also tied the 1970-71' Dutchmen as the winningest team in the school's history. Union still h?s one game remaining to set that mark. 20 at the half, and did even better in the second stanza while playing substitutes for 12 of the 20 minutes of the period. Mike Doyle led all scorers with 23 points and added 15 rebounds. Tom Bacher chipped in with 12 points and Jim Tedisco talliell I I. Seniors Dave Shames and Dave Vitchock made their last varsity appearances before the home crowd. Shames tallied six points and Vitchock eight. The highlight of the nearly uneventful evening was provided not on the court but in the stands. A vocal group of students known as the psyche section unveiled a new \fight Cheer.\ The cheer was complete with percussion accompaniment B.U.-R.P.I. hockey game. The win does, however, keep Union clearly in the middle of the post-season playoff pictuFe. The Garnet travel 'to Hamilt0fl College tomorrow- evening hoping to tl:lfn in a perlormance that will garner support amon:g the N.C. A.A. small coilege tournament committee. Hamilton features a hapless 0- 13 record, but Coach Gary Walters is :concerned over the possibility that the Continentals might revert to a stall to derail Union's playoff hopes. Hamilton did fairly with a slowdown against Williams, losing by only 42-38: The Ephmen downed the Gamet last Tuesday 92-85. JCA Fast Break Deals '74 Hoo,p Second· Loss by GARY LEIDERMAN For a while it looked for a.U the world like consecutive win number nine (and 14 of 15 overall) for the Union Fresh cagers, but the contest on Friday night wound l,ip a 91-80 loss at the hanqs of Junior College of Albany. · The Garnet Yearlings raced to a ten ... point lead early in the conte:st, but a subsequent defensive collapse al'lowed JCA to even the count at halftime at 40. Momentum gone, the Gamet, in spite of matching their first-half offensive output, were beaten down the court time and time again by- JCA's fast break. Despite remain!ng in . contention throughout, Union could never quite catch the hot-,shooting (51%} home team. BiU Carmody finished with 21 points and 8 assists, but Tom Combs was high rebounder and scorer for Union, hitting II of 21 long-range jumpers and scoring 24 points. Albany's .flashy guai;d Kevi'n. Mulcahy did the Year lings in, tying his career high of 3'5 points. ' ~ The Yearlings' 8-game winning streak is history, and they, now stand at 13-2. After the loss to JCA, Coach Bill Scanlon expressed satisfaction in his team's performance this seasoq b.ut adde.d tbat he'd hate to spoil the slate by going out a loser. He's certain to _have hi's cagers sky-high for their finale at tough Siena tomorrow night. The Garnet seemed sluggish in the opening minutes of the game, but needed only a minimal effort to oust the visiting Stutemen. Stevens went scoreless for the first four minutes, often completely m1ssmg rim and backboard on shots. · featuring Roy Wiese on the mop pail. The group, known more for its vocal support than its originality, plainly admits that it stole the cheer trom the Boston University cheering, section at Friday night's Larries Snap Mats' Skein by MARK MINDEL Union never trailed, leading 39- NCAA Tourney On Today's Scene with BILL HOLLERAN As the I 7-3 Gamet basketball team rapidly approaches the end of its 1970-71 season, many curious Union hoop fans are asking questions about the NC 1\A regional tournament and wondering about Union's chances for a bid. Maybe a bit of explanation here about the tourney could help to clear things up and answer some of those queries. Union is attempting to latch on to a bid to the New York-New Jersey regional playoff, to be held March 10-13 - one of eight regional post-season basketball tourneys sponsored nationally by the NCAA. Four teams compete at each regional site, with the wmners advancing to the quarterfinals, played at four different locations around the country. After the quarterfinals, the surviving four squads meet in Evansville, Indiana, for the semis and national finals. Four teams compete in each of the eight local playoffs, and at present the squads being scrutinized for the New York-New Jersey regional are Buffalo State, Montclair State, Hartwick, Union, Albany State, and C. W. Post. The regional selection committee is supposed to choose two teams from Upstate New York and two other squads from the New York City-New Jersey area. At present most people concede the downstate slots to Montclair and Post, while Buffalo is sure to get one upstate bid. That leaves Union, Albany, and Hartwick to fight it out over the remaining Upstate invitation. Buffalp State is probably the class team of the six hooefuls, sporting a fine 14-3 record to date and a number one New Y mk State ranking, whiie playing a tough national schedule. Buffalo is also the .defending· champ of the New York-New Jersey regional, having made it to the national small college finals last season, only to lose to Tennessee State in the semis arid University of California (Riverside) in the. consolation match. Of the two downstate candidates, Montclair shows a 16-3 mark and C. W. Post has compiled an 18-3 record. In all honesty Union's chances for a bid look reasonably good, although they would be infinitely better if the cagers had beaten Williams. The Garnet's chances for the berth are also presuppose(! on the fact Union can fend off a forecasted Hamilton slowdown tomorrow night and finish the season at 18-3. Albany State has been tooting their own horn loudly of late, primarily because the Great Danes have won 11 of their last 12, including six straight, en route to 'a 15-4 mark. Albany also has been pointing to the fact that they play a fairly beefy schedule. But even with their impressive winning streak and better schedule, Albany may be just beating the bushes with their buildup because the Gamet managed to beat the Danes in December, 71-67 on Albany's home court. As for Union~s other rival, I 5-4 Hartwick, Albany beat them by four points earlier in the season. Union's weakness, of course, is the Garnet's comparatively weak schedule. Of the Dutchmen's 17 wins, only six have been over winning teams, and another embarassment for the Garnet is the loss to weak Harpur in the Season opener. Of course, the Garnet own a big win over prominent Rochester and a road victory over tenacious St. Lawrence, not to mention important triumphs over Pace, Trinity, Siena, and Kings Point. The six-man New York-New Jersey tournament selection committee, chaired by Dr. Wilbur Renkin (Albright College's athletic director), will employ team records, strength of schedules, and important wins or losses a·s criteria for selection. The fact remains, however, that regardless of schedules and records, Union boasts a win over Albany State, who in turn beat Hartwick. That factor will make the going that much smoother for Onion when . the regional committee meets tomorrow to make ·its bid recommendations by phone to the NCAA national selection committee. The NCAA will then distribute the bids later this week or early next week. .. It was an unlucky \13\ for Garnet wrestlers AI Calabro and Mark Zullo, as both previously undefeated fresh lost their first / matches of the year by decisions to two tough St. Lawrence grapplers, and the Larries went on to deal the Union team their first defeat of the season, 20-14. Calabro's 7-6 loss also snapped his consecutive pinning streak at 10. . As expected, the Larrie.s were tough in t-he light and heavy divisions, and their early strength was especially too much for• Coach Gerry Everling's matmen, who now stand 10-1 on the year. Psychologically, it had to hurt to lose those first two bouts, but on paper Union was still alive due to a weakness in the Larries' middleweights. St. Lawrence, however, opened an almost insurmountable lead by taking Track Strong At Rochester by GREG HAMLIN With Mike Rich and Tim McCabe turning in their usual fine perlormances, the Garnet track team managed a surprisingly strong showing in last Saturday's Rochester Relays. The Dutchmen garnered 16 points, 19 behind meet champion Cortland, Union's point total earned them a tie for third place in the 18 team field. High jumper Rich, who set the meet record last year, broke his previous standard of 6' 4\ by ;y.j of an inch. The sprint medley team recorded the only other Dutchmen victory in the meet. Anchored by sophomore flash McCabe, the team of Rick .Jaszczak, Al Prysunka, and Steve Wood ran to a remarkably easy triumph. McCabe saved his best race of the afternoon, however, for the final event - the 8-'lap relay. Running \smoother than whipped cream on a dance floor,\ the speedster made up more than thirty yards on the eventual first and second place finishers. His time of 52. 7, when adjusted to account for the tight turns and other disadvantages of the slow Rochester ttack, was roughly comparable to a 48 flat quarter mile. Next we.ek the Garnet will host arch-rival R.P.I. in a 12:00 meet in the Fieldhouse. The Dutchmen will be looking to avenge last spring's frustrating 2 point loss to the Engineers . the next 3 matches; including a pivotal decision over 150 pounder Bill Benedict. The Gamet trailed, I 7-0, and ne.eded to win the remammg five matches with at least ohe pin to pull off a draw, or two pins to seal a victory. · Gary Gurney and Mike Sc~acca provided winning decisions in the next two matches, newcomer Sciacca now without 11 loss in his 3 varsity matches. Pat Wardell then added the needed pin, his 6th of the year, to keep ·the slim Union hopes alive. However, Union's chances were still far less than great, as Garnet heavyweights Gary Morris and Howie Benedict faced two undefeated Larries. A Schenectady .product, . Gale Knull from M on t Pleasant High, ended Union's dreams .of an undefe~tted season as he dealt a 5-0 deathblow to M0rris. In the finale Howie Benedict kept Union's chin up as he showed Norm Bell · what real heavyweight wrestling is, handing . BelL his first taste of d.efeat in a 45 - match «;:areer via a 5-2 decision. Union wrestled at R.l.T. in a triangular meet this afternoon, to close its dual meet season. Also remaining on the schedule is the state tourney at Rochester. Skiers . Journey North; Place Sixth In Meet by JOHN H. HOBART, JR. The Union College ski team journeyed north to the wilds of the Adirondack region last weekend to compete in a meet sponsored by Paul Smith's College. Eleven schools from New York State were represented at the meet, and the Garnet skiers managed . a respectable showing at sixth place. The slalom event was held Friday on one of the worst slalom courses ever set on a ski hill. Captain Russ Dexter turned in two respectable runs for 13th place. In the giant slalom, Dexter jumped the gun at the start and was required to run again after everyone else had gone. He still finished 20th although he would have been in the top ten had he not been so anxious at the start. The Dutchmen finished seventh overall in the alpine events. The jumpin,g competition was held outsid~ ·of Lake Placid on a 40 meter jump next to the 70 meter Olympic hill. Jim McAndrew and Jay Hobart finished 14th and 15th respectively, followed by Bob Nesbitt in 28th position. It was Nesbitt's first experience off a ski jump, and he shows great future promise. In the cross country event Goran Pershagen, from Sweden, flashed around the six mile course in 41 minutes 54 seconds, good for 15th place. Nesbitt and Kurt Schuttenburg finished 19th and 28th which put Union fifth overall. IT'S NOT TO LATE TO LEARN ABOUT WINE. Join Our W·ine Tasting Club Moffett's Liquor Store (Across The Field) 1505 VanVranken Ave. LUIGI'S REST A-URA NT SPECIALIZING IN :\\ Italian· American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar . , ·.-r ·,~ ) '·: . ' . ' .... I , I· < '

. , l · .. · . II' )if <. -~ J, r 'I· . l t ~ • ' ~ ., \; r. . +.~'\ . 'I ( 'l_f> jt ! ' /'§ h 1J 1 ~ }./ \\\' . ' I I • • • FOifntled at Onion Collt!fe __ 1877 VOLUME 100 NUMBER -32 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK FEBRUARY 26, 1971 Price Twenty Cents Martin, Malloy Answer Questions Sociology Chairman Fox Dies, Service on Sunday , _by HOWARD STONE . · .. Pr.e_sideot Harold .c, Martm and Dean Edward J, Malloy met the students Tuesday night in the . long'-awaited confrontation over the · way college decisions are made. The meeting was bel& before a full house in the Soci~l Sciences auditorium,· where the. large group of stud.ent.s questioned the two administrators for more than an hour and a half. - The first and major topic concerned the rejected Girling Center concert pla11s for the. spring. Altheugh having stated . previously that he would not answer any questions on that subject, President Martin did in facttalk about the decision. The important part of the discussion centered around the way in which the decision was actually made, the fact that fhe ultimate decision restid with Dean.Mallqy, and that he had asked for the opinions of other administrators in the matter, even though they hadn't seen .the actual plans.Iil genera-l, the same arguments that have been lieard for the last few weeks were repeated, _to. no one's satisfaction; until at -la-st · the: crux· of the problem was reached. P.resident · Martin finally declared. . that . ulfiinate1Y . Uie question was Me· of judgment and that exp~rience and \wisdom\ rested in the administration rather than with the students. This ·immediately raised the question of just what the r6Ie ·of the students should actually be in the' governance of the College, this being especially important now that the report of the Governance Committee is out and under consideration. Martin stated his po~ition clearly, saying tha:t he does think participatory democracy seems to work. · However, he said, the students cannot expect a voice· equal to their numbers since they are a transient body in the school. Dennis Peskin: of the English Department immediately questioned the Administration's' position as arbiter of all decisions, especially in light of the fact that there is no set body designated to judge the qualifications of Administration personnel, A.fterwards, the discussion moved into a general question by MARK COVEN .Stud-ent Senate Pr~sident Walter Spencer has announced that the Senate ·will meet Tuesday, Maret• 2, at 7:00 PM \in SS liS in special session to discuss the .Report of the Committee on Governance. Professors Charles · •Gati (who chaired · the Governance Committee) and. Frapk Gado· will be present at thll . m~eting. All those interested in the future of governance at Union are utged to attend. Spencer has informed CONCO~DIENSIS that, due to great initial demand, copies of the Governance Committee Report arl.'!! cunently unavailable. However, 200 additional copies ef the repor.t ·are bt!ing printed, and should appear in the library for general ~onsumption by late Mon~ay or ear-!Y Tuesday. / and answer peried abol,lt the state of the • college. The questions were concerned mostly with financial matters: next year's tuition and room increases, student jobs, budgetary problems and possible .solutions, and whether maids service would be or should be centinued. The matter of faculty salaries and tenure was also discussed, hut again, it was mainly a matter of the same things everyone has heard being repeated. In all,. tQe tone of the meeting can best be described by a single question, and its ultimate answer. What is the student's real recourse in matters of policy with which he disagrees? There is none. There win be a memarial service for · Professot Fox on Sunday at 2 p.m. in the · Memorial Chapel. by LOUIS S. SNITKOFF Sherweod Dean Fox, Chairman of the Department of Sociology and Antb:ropology died in his Schenectady homt! late Wednesday night, of an apparent heart attack. Fox, 53, joined the Union faculty, a~ associate pr.ofessor of sociology and Chairman of the Department, in 1956, and was named a full professor in 1960. Before coming to Union, he taught at New York University and at Skidmore College, in Saratoga. Fox took two year- long leaves of absence .in 1962\63 and again in 1969-70, during which he was a visiting professor at the Sociologisk lnstitut of the University ot Copenhagen, D~nmark. Professor Fox graduated from Harvard in 1939, and attended graduate school at the University of Illinois, where he received his masters in 1941. He also spent two years at the University of Wisconsin. He returned to H~rvard, following two years in the Air force, during World W;u II, to take a master's degree in 1947, and his doctorate in sociology in 1953. Fox, in addition to translating the posthumous papers of Emile Durkhein, was a specialist m the relationship between social theory and public · policy. tie conducted considerable research on the subject, much lff it in the tri-cities area as director of a social research program at Union, funde(1 by the· Ford Foundation. ,Curricular Affairs c,ommittee Abolishes Lanuage Requi.rement , . . . . . . . by LES GOLDMAN · chaitltlan of the committee; The foreign language. The Committee _On . th_e basis . of the student members were Scott then decided .. that the option to recommendations of the ad hoc Bowen, Henry Kass, and Leslie study a foreign language could be Corn.mittee to Study the Modern Goidman. The committee was viewt::d as an integral part of the L!'.!JJg.ua.ge R~.quirei:Dent _ t_h~ established last October by Dean Comp. Ed. philosophy.\_ On the Curricular Affairs Committee Martin Lichterman. · · basis of this reasoning the has voted to _abolish th~ foreign The Committee . was presented Committee unanimously voted to language requirem~nt, effective by Dean Lichterman with three make language courses · part of SoringTerrn 1971. possible alternatives: (l) the Comp. Eq. program. The Curricular Affairs Continuing the current Committee has also voted to requirement, (2) abolishing all accept' the ad hoc Committee's language requirement, and (3) recommendations that foreign modifying the existing language courses be entered as requirement. another track in the,Comp. Ed. The Committee obtained its program, also effective as of next information from many sources. term. It was reported that the It polled both faculty and Registrar's Office is already students for their opinions, and it working on the cross categorizing analyzed information on the of . foreign language courses so status .of the foreign language that they can be usec;l to fulfill requirement at other institutions. Comp. Ed. requirements. It also discussed the possible The Lat'lguage Committee's effects of removing. the language recommendations were revealed requirement on both the in its report to the Curricular language department and Affairs Committee. The ad hoc students who wish to go to Committee was composed . of graduate school. 'four faculty members and three The reasons for placing foreign students. The faculty members language courses in the Comp. were Professor Arnold Seiken of Ed. program can be found in the Mathematics, Professor Paul Committee's report. The report LeClerc of Modern Languages, mentions that, at present, there Professor Joseph Finkelstein of are only two requirements left in History, and Professor Michael the curriculum at Union: Shinagel of English-who was the Comprehensive Education and Thre-e H:isto:ria.n.s Here Fo,r Talks Next Week Three 110ted urban historians will he present on campus 'Monday, March 1 for a day of informal discussion and interchange with students and faculty. The visiting historians and the schools at which they teach are: Henry Binford of Harvard, Stuart Blumin of MIT, and Daniel Wa1kovitz of RPI. Mr~. Hele11 Horowitz, who is an Assistant Professor of History here, described the guests as \three young historians interested in .inter-disciplinary approaches.\ At least one of these men has worked extensively with computers. Monday's agenda for the three professors begins with attendance at Professor David Potts' urban history seminar. All those interested ?re Welcome to attend the class, which will be held in SS 0 l2from 1:30 to 3:2D PM. Following dinner, the guest historians will be featured at an informal discussion entitled \New Perspectives in Urban History.\ ihe program is scheduled to begin at 8:00 PM in Hale House Faculty Lounge. There will apparently be no prepared speeches given,butan interestingdiscussion is anticipated. Those interested in urban affairs, from whatever discipline of study, ate urged by the History Department to attend and participate. Allison and Eoerling Are Appointed Union Colleg~ reached into its own athletic staff on Wednesday to name Bruce Allison director of athletics and Gerry Everling head football coach. Everling, 27, and Allison, 41, replace former athletic director and bead grid coach George Flood, who resigned six weeks ago to take an assistant coaching post at the University of Massachusetts. Allison has been a member cif the Union coaching staff since 1957, serving as as!jistant athletic director behind Flood for the past two years. Allison is also in cha.rge of the College's physical education program, and has been the varsity lacrosse and freshmer football mentor since coming to Union. Allison totally revamped Union's lagging lacrosse fortunes Upon coming to the College in 1957 and twice led his team to the U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association divisional crown in 1963 and 1965. A lacrosse Ali- Americam at Cortland State, Allison has been active on the national lacrosse scene for several years and in 1970 was named the USILA's Man Of The Year. Everling has been a member of the Union coaching staff for two years. Everling is also Union's head wrestling coach. His teams have been , outstandin,g since he assumed tb.e mat coaching ·reins last winter, compiling a 17-4~ I record including an 11-1-1 log this season. Dr. Fox also served as a member of the Council for World Understanding, the Schenectady Human Rights Commission. and the Schenectady NAACP. He also had been a member of tl,t: Board of the Schenectady Community Action Program. and President of the Community WelfaFe Council. · Fox also belonged to se\ era! professional groups. including the Society for the Study of Social Problems, the American Sociological Society. and Alpha Kappa Delta, an honorary group for sociologists. Dean Martin Lichterman, of the Center for Humanities and Social Sciences, in an interview 'with Concordiensis yesterday, described Fox as one who was \very much concerned with students.\ Fox had worked close'v with a number of students in sociology, and t.ichterman added that he was highly respected by students and faculty, withoUt exception. Fox's dedication is evident in that as late as Wednesday afternoon, he was urged to \go home and rest\ by a colleague. but he refused, not wanting to \miss teaching his afternoon class, especially this late in the term.\ Lichterman .said, furthermore, that in recent years the demands placed on the Sociology Department by increasing numbers of students were becoming staggering, and there were many plans for growth of the department in the future. Dr. Fox \would have been instrumental in carrying out these plans:· he added. Dean Li~htermarP emphasi1ed that Sherwood 'Fox played a very major role in Community affairs. making important contributions in publicly and privately funded areas. He was active in the Human Rights Commission and deeply concerned in the field of Delivery of Community Services. He did relatively little publishing, except for the release of some papers while in Denmark. \What is particularly sad,\ said Lichterman, \is that at the time of his death, he was preparing several items for publication.\ Lichterman, who I had known Fox for 35 years -· they were classmates at Harvard described Fox's death as a \teal personal l.oss and a horrihle blO\\ to· a closelv-knlt familv.\ Memorial seniccs ~ill be held for Professor Fox on campus on Sunday afternoon, at 2 p.m. in Memorial Chapel.

PAGE 2 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 26, 1971 Managing Editor Jame$ E. Stewart News Editor Louis S. Snitkoff Assoc. News Editor Peter Bickerman _Features Editor Daniel Schochet Layout Editor Doug Wong Editor-in-Chief Peter J. Weingold Business Manager Lloyd Birns Asst. Business Managers Joseph Achenbaum Doug Binder National Adv. Mgr. Mark Shulma-n Sports Editor William J. Holleran Asst. Sports Editor Mark ShuJ!:oll Editors Emeriti William Ouzer Henry G. Fein Contributing Editor Richard L. Kramer Photography Editor Jody Saslow Asst. Photography Editors Charles Long Dave Conrey STAFF: Pattv Sine, Les Goldman, Ja~ H ohart, Marc Lu;t, Harri' Samueb, Judy Steinbach, Tom Conley, David Conti,. Greg Hamhn, Michael Hollander,, George Kaplan, Robert A. l.evmc. M1~e Meserole, 1 homa; Morante-, ({u~h Morton, Ba~bara McDonald, lorn Mitchell, !.en Solomon, George Bain, Mart) Berman, Re1d Russel, Gail Goodman, Kevin Roberts, Michael Rosenberg, Howard St.:Jne, Mark Zubres, Mark Urman and Gary Leiderman. Published ·1 ue.days and J'rid•Y'o during the 5chool year by the. student body ol lln•on College. Schenectady, N.Y .. National Advcrti>ing Rcprc,.,ntative, Narional Edu.aumnal Advcrt.••mg ~r\ilcc. Inc., College Publishers -Representative~ 360 Lc~mgton Ave .. N.V.C Editorial ofliec. OJd (iym, Union College, Public;uion . Olhcc. n.., World Publications.. 771 State Street., Schenectady. N. V, 12107. 346- L ~St.. !·n!cn:d 10 the Schenectady po•1 ollicc '\ Second C'las• Mail Matter. _ ---~U~flptlnn 211-ccnL• a co~y. S6.~ !ear delivered anywhere in the United Slat.:_:;. --~----1 G-overnance The repott of the ad hoc Committee on Governance is an excellent one which needs only a few minor modifications to be fully accept~ble. It. shoul? b~ obvious, however, that the report is only a step m the nght dtrectwn, and the next.step toward a better governance stru~tu~e. here (i.~. more ·Workable and participatory by all gr~ups and mdiVJduals) ts the proposal sli!l:>mitted to the sub- committee on models of the Governance Committee by Mssrs. Coven, Galdston, Hyman, and Kessler. P~esident Martin said at Tuesday's Student Senate meeting that he d1dn't feel there could be _a ~orkable .. participatory democracy\ form of governance here. Thts IS shown to be false in the ••GCHK\ model. Rather than give the president of the college chief executive po;.vers and extremely important legislative powers they would, qmte correctly, have the president merely act as the executive arm of .a largely autonomous, very representative, All College Senafe whtch would be the final arbiter in all college decisions. · Which brings up an important criticism of the Governance Committee report: The Agenda Committee, much like the House or Senate yvays and Means Committee, will have a great deal of say conce~m? what c?mes before the Senate and when it does.· In such a case. 1t 1s not Wtse to have one student, the president, and one tacult~ member. The president's power to hire and fire is extensive and wtll almost certainly influence the decisions of all but the most sec~~ely tenur:d faculty member of the committee. Then any future d~ctswns commg before the agenda committee will essentially be dictate? by the president. This is dangerous and represents a great stumbhng block toward a l.arger student and freer faculty voice. in the affairs of the college. · · To prevent this the report should be amended so that two students and. two fa~ulty members in addition to the president sit on the committee, wtth the president voting only in the case of a tie. One final and minor criticism is that the proportion of students neces~ary to effect a referendum, one-third, is absur:dly high, especially when _the faculty, a much more closely knit group - /structurally. reqmres the same one-third. WE CARRY A FULL LINE. OF GROCERIES, MEATS, BEVERAGES, ASSORTED SNACK ITEMS, ETC. MEMBER BUY-RITE S'rOrtES OPEN 8 A.M. TILL 10 P.M. 7 DAYS A WEEK SKI SALE 20% -50% ON ALL • CLOTHING • S-KIIS ~BOOTS· TOWNE MARIN~, INC. 2015 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY TEL. 869·8409 MDN-FRI - 9:30 to 9:30 SAT..,... 9:30.to 5 The Social Committee presents Manhattan Tran~fer in Concert tonight in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m. Scheduled as part of New Performers Weekead, the concert will be free of charge, due to a change of plans. or helping· to run .the Sailing club should contact Mike McCarthy at 372..() 172. On Thursday night, March 4, at 7:30 PM in the Fox House ·Lounge, Professor Hugh Alart Wilson of the Music Department will be featured in an harpsichord concert. Acclaimed by the world famous critic and olympic pole vaulter Bill Ouzer * * * * Seniors who did not have their * * * * The Internatiomtl Relati0ns Club is presenting Professor Bernard S. Morris of Indiana University, to speak on \The Greening of Imperialism, on Monday, March 1, at 8 p.m. in SSOl6. Morris has also taught at Stanford, and at American University in Washington, D.C. He has pu~lished extensively in the. field of American Foreign Pohcy, anq _is a member of the American Political Science Association. · * * * * Resident Advisor applications will be available .on Monday, March I, at Mr. Bryant's offiq:, Old Gym Hall or the Office of Residence Programs in Fox House. Applications are returnable by Friday, March 12. * * * * Th_ere will be a mandatory meetmg of all English majors .on Monday, March 1, at 8 P.M. in the lounge of Psi U. The modification and( or abolition of comps will he discussed. * * * * The IEEE Student Branch will present Mr. N.L. Laschever Chief Engineer of the Defens~ Electronics Products. of Division of RCA, Tu~sday, March 2, at 7:30 P.M. in EE-22. Mr. Laschev.~r will speak . on the \Lunar Module Rendezvous Radar for Project Apollo.\ * * * * Anyone interested in running BRING YOUR DATE Jackets Required 1617 Union St. Scb'dy yearbook pictt,m,:s taken last ter!ll may do so on Monday, March l, ?ne day only. They may sign up m the Student Activities Office price is $3.00. . . . ' * * * •*' There will be a PYE meeting on Monday, March 1 at 4:30 P.M. in the Social Sciences Lounge. All members are urged to attend. * * * * There will be a General Meeting of all Hillel members next Wednesday night at '1:30 in SS 115.. At that time; elections will be held for new officers . . ' ' pet~tmns will be handed out to mark Soviet Jewry Week, .. and the movie ''Price of Silence\ will be presented.. All members are urged to attend this very important meeting. Hillel is also ·planning a Purim Party with Skidmore; Sage, and Albany State on Sunday, ·Mar-ch 6, at 8 p.m. in Hale House. Th!i:17e will be liquor, wine;· and food, as well. as songs and dancing. Hillel members and their dates ·will be admitted free of charge, all (!thers must pay a 25¢ admission fee. Reservations must be made in advance: eall Joe Schwartz 372-7956 or Eric Miller 393-8698~' the·- we-can-do iJilyt~igg­ Instantly printing. place It's your Goodway Copy Center. W~e~e we J?rint anything. Instantly. Sometimes we say, \Wait just a minute.\ Other times,''Come back tomorrow. Same time.\ How do we do it? Easily. You give us a camera-ready original. You get as many copies as you want. And they loo·k terrific. What else do we do? We copy, bind, coliate. pad. fold, staple, pick up and deliver. All for .a very low cost. GOOOWR4~s ns-120 Broadway-- Schenectady, New York 12305 LINEBACKER CORRECTIONS A minor \bug\ has been found in the Linebacker computer program. Tbe result has been three errors in the ratings of courses and professors: · ' · 1) Chemistry 162, sec. 1; Professor .Sowa; the course ra~iitg, question #8, should read, mean: 100; stdv: 0;00 2) Physics 140, sec. 1; Professor C. Swartz· the instructor rating question #25, should read, mean: 100; stdv. 0.00 ' 3)' ~sychology 90, sec. 8; ~rofessor Conable; the coune rating, - questiOn #8 should read, mean: 100; stdv: 0.00 We regr_et any inconveniences that may ha~e arisen from this programmmg error. Also;. if any student w.ould like to join ·the Student Course Evaluation Committee please call, Art Riccio at 346-9227. WITH.THIS COUPON FREE SODA & S-ALAD - With Purchase of Submarine or Spaghetti DINNER EAT IN OR OUT Expires Feb. 28,1971 10 STATE ST. Schenectady - Opposite Cornmtmity CoDe~e -... Pltone 377-4198 ' ' ,, Professor Wil~on's concerts- are a perennial success. A splendid time is .guaranteed for all. . . ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS Applications for all fol1lls of financial aid (scholarship, loan, job) for, the academic year t971~ _ 72 wUI be available- on Monday,.·- March 1; 1971, in t:he _ Student Aid Office, Old· Gym_ Hall, fi·rst fl9or. Office hours a;_re· from 9 a.m. to noon 'ahd from' 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. . A Master application must be retumed to this office not later than ' M~y . l; \J97L A· Parents' Con-fidential Statement must be file-d with - the C9Hege Sch~larship Servic~ by May· 1, 1971; it is- advisable to secure the necessary papers prior to leaving for .spr!ng recess an,d lake· them home to·parents at that time. It \shoulq be remembered· that financial aid is noi autbmatic and must, therefore, be ren~wed yearly by applying through the · Ftbove procedure. If you had . fina~cial aid this year :and want ·to be: CQB$iaei:!!d -for renewal for · mixt year you -must reapply. )~--~~--~~~~--~ l l · with\Jack Mclaug~Un, .arr1;Yournall~l. Plus, SUPER SHOW The English Rock, Blues, Jazz F1lm · Saturday and Sunqay, feb. 13,& 14 SUPER SHOW The £nglish Rotk, Blues, Jan f1lm with led·Zepplin. Steve Stills, Eric Clapton, Buddy Mills, M.J.Q., · Rolanli Kirk, Dallas Taylor, Coleseum, <frid others \Yednesday; March 3i SMALL FACES • wltlt Rod stewart J(en.ny Iones-, .Ronnie Lane, 1~ McLa&en r. Ron Wood . THE Gr{EASE BAND (fmnerly with Joe. cackel') , Special Guest Artists: SAVOY. BRbWN featurJnz Kim Slmmomls coming, to Yrs. After, Elton-John. Jflit Tuna, Willie Dl•on, Sir & The fainily Stoilas Publit<ity: New ConceptAssoc's, Inc. Prodllctloil & sound:.· Nat'l Student Productions, Inc. N.Y.C. & camPbell, Calif, Proaram!'llng: . . Ashwoo.tl House, Ltlf. jrxeept wh•re flldl~ated; 2 shaws ni&J!tiJ at 1 7:~0 a. H :to P:M~. seiltilll·ill· .J sectln_tnr:llet , . ltifa: ($11) 43.,3345 -lililnen office: (511) 1 ·<134-2179 ..._ H.Y.c. (212! JU2..09D9. \Be sure. to &i!t stu~. and !land stamped upon etiterin.; lhOW.'' r.lad Orders: Check or money order' payable to \Nat'l .SI11d'ent Praductions, Inc.\; Box 112, Alb., N.Y. 12201. Enclose self-id•' dressed stamped envelope & specify date &l time. Orders received 1 wk. before show· will• be. held at boK office ugtif show time. Box ~fl·c~ opens at 2 P.M. day of show. Remain- . mg t1ckets •vallable one. week prior (through Clay preceo .g shiiWJ! Alllany: MASOU, 2a8 Washineton Ave. 434-3290; Scllel'lactadyt TilE OTHER $IDE OF TODAY, 135 Jay St. 346-910s· Mpha*k Mall: CRVSTAL MANSION & DROME . SOUND: Trtf: THE MUSIC SHACK, 97 Con- &ress st. 27Jo1400. · · • . 11, \ ... i •• ••• ) ... j

. ' .. ~· 1( .~ ~~~ ( ,.j ti ' \ r !. .. 1\ .. ) ',, ,, ) i .. L ! J ' .... '·ii!J - AT,-~ CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 26, 1971 Page 3 A Student· G.overnance ·Proposal For Unioo A PROP()SAL FOR THE compiled by the chairman GOVERNANCE OF UNION COLLEGE a) specific proposals T f 11 · · f · · 1 · must be included on the agenda he o owmg ·IS. a statement o prmc1p e upon wh1ch we base when Y4 of the ACS so petition our proposal for a new form of campus governance. Time and B. Functions of the ACS again, we hear the college referred to as a community. The term 1) The ACS shall have all community implies harmony. However, in our community final decision making ·powers .pn · there seems to. be competition rather than harmony. ·Each all issues concerning the entire faction of the campus (students, faculty, and administrators) college community or having a have their own form. of govern~nce. In making decisions,. each direct impact on more than one of these groups compete individually to achieve thei.r needs .. of the three major sectors Thus, the separate <;n:gaJ?:iza:tion$ of governance encourage 2) The ACS will have final competition and distrust rather than harmony. decision making powers It is time the three major groups on this campus realize that regarding all curricular matters each separate action they take- is in essence an interaction that 3) All appointments to ef~_ects each gr_ oup. in some way. We present our proposai with Student-Faculty Committees and Student•Faculty'-Administrative the hope that this enteraction will become more successful and Committees will be ratified by that a spirit of harmony, for the good of.the entjre college, may the ACS be achieved 'in_ out dQmmU:nity. . ... .. . 1: THE . ALL COLLEGE .SENATE. (A(:S~ - .. A •. Organization of the ACS l) The' ACS wiU . be Centers l and H 2. the Students Dean · C .. Committees of the ACS 1) The following will be of Student-Faculty-Administrative Committees 3. the President of the a) Academic· Oppor- tunities Committee comprised of · College _ a) pight students 2) The ACS will be chaired 1. four elected ~y the in a rotating manner b) Admissions Com- rnittee s.tudent .body at large . a) The chair will rotate c) Comp. Ed. Board d) Curricular Affairs a later date S-F-A- Committees, and all · 3) The r~st of the present· f11ture committees - College Committees will be I. a·ppointments to Student-Faculty Committees Committees of the ACS must be a) the ratio · of made on the basis of the Faculty membership of Student-Faculty Council's nominations first Committees will he Y2 students 2. other faculty and !6 faculty members may be appointed only b) all committees of 'the 'ifter the Faculty Council's ACS established -in the future nominees have been appointed will either be Student-Faculty- and fhey have either accepted the Administrative Committees, appointment, or not Student-Faculty Committees, or 3) Administrative Council Student-Faculty-Administrative- a) will be made up ol Staff Committees I. the President of the I. the ratio of future committees will be a) S-F Committees - Y2 student, Y2 faculty b) S-F-A ·Com- mittees- 2 student-s, 2 faculty, I ad,ministrator c) S-F-A-S Com- mittees- 3 students, 3 faculty, 2 administrato~rs, l staff · 4) The Curricular Affairs Committee wiU meticulously study and repo.rt on all curricular matters 5) All other S-F-A College 2. the Centers l and II 3. the Students Deans Dean 4. the Comptroller of of 5. the Director of Comp. Ed. 6. the Director of Business and Facilities Operations 7. the Director of Institutional Studies 8. the Secretary of the College · .. 2 .. one tde\ctt:d . by :the each tenn in such a manner that .. students of each of the _ four one representative of each of t.he ' academic.divisions . t~ree piajor-g:r.o.ups will hold the b) ,Eiglit (acuity memberS position in one out of every three Committee . e) Facu.lty Promotion>S, and Committee Salary, Committees and S-F Committees Tenure will retain their present powers 6) The Committee on Academic Standing will jlave, besides the normal complement of students and faculty in the designated ratio, the Dean of Students, the Director of the Counseling Service, and the 9. the Director of Information Systems and Computer Services I l. fou.r ~le<it!!d byo the terms.3) The A.CS will m. eet on. ce , , faculty at large . ·· · · · 2 .. one elected by the every three weeks during the . faculty of ' .each. of the four academic year .. .academic divisions a) meetmgs may be 2) The membership of Student-Faculty-Administrative Committees will :be in the ratio of two students, two faculty, and one administrator 10. the Vice-President for Ex~ernal Affairs II. the Director of Admissions 12. the Registrar . c) Four administrators called at other times by 1.4 of the .1. the. Deans· of ·memhersoftheACS · 4) The agenda will be a) the exact numbers will be determined by the ACS at College doctor 13. the Director of Special .Programs b) will be the D. Sub-Qrganizations of tbe administrative advisory functionary to the ACS Comment 0~ The Proposal ::n::~:~~:~::~~~~~o:; ·By -MARK COVEN community h.as not developed, equally. r.m tired of Jistening to decides c) will have power over matters solely . pertaining to administrators d) will nominate The contmual events of the but:rather a society based on the people say that they have been at b) will be the student pa~t months and perhaps even importance and the power of the the school longer .and so it is they advisory functionary to the All administrative appointees to S-F- A Committees and all future the ·past w~k~ paye emphasized presid~ncy~ The control of the who must receive the most College Senate committees to me the. importance of a college community .lies with the representation, for it is with such c) will have power over L appointments to restructurin-g·· · of· . the wishes of the· president. I logic that trust can never 'matters .solely pertaining to Committees of the ACS must be communication channels in the hesitated to use the term 'shims develop. The world must move students made on the basis of the cellege. The creation of a- college of t~~ . presideht', but it is a towards the establishment of a d) will nominate stud.ent Admin i strati v e Co unci I' s settate wiU rnost definately have poss1billty th3lt . may someday greater community,. but Union appointees to S-F Committees, S- nominations first an impact on the problem. , become a reahty, I do not feel 1t . College will not realize this fact F-A Committees, and all future 2. Other· adminis- However, . I do have many necessary .to elaborate as to how in its normal governance. Under committees. tration members may be questions dealing in· specific with the ~res1dent contro1s th-e this governance prop.osal Union I. appointments to appointed only after the Adminis- . the exact make,.up of.the senate. ~xtens~ve degree of.power. I. ~nd College will never be a Committees- of the ACS must be trative Council's nominees have First of .all 1 am afraid that 1 1t obv1ous -enough m onLy listing community and should never be made on the basis of the Student been appointed and have have st~·rted from a the powers given to him in the referred to a'S such. And yet Senate's nominations first accepted, or not misconception.. ·This miscon- proposal. . . Union College with the rest of 2. other students may 4) All College Councii ception dealS with the . For. w.hat I find t~ be m1ssul:g the world will continue to move be appointed only after the a) will be disbanded as elirr$1a.tion· of the arbitrary m. th1s pr~p?sal,_ 1s what 1s together as a community, forcing Student Se.nate's nominees have the establishment of the ACS powers n~.w · . held by the ev1dently m1ssmg m .the rest . ?f this proposal to become . been appomted and they have makes it an obsolete organization. president. .I find the committee's the college and that IS a c.ertam antiquated. And. so l am afraid accepted, or not . . E. Jurisdiction of the ACS reasons· for needed · student deg.-ee of trust and respect. that you will find that this 2) Fac1;1lty Co~ncll I) the ACS, being the only participati-on in the governance Everyone, every constituency propoSal in a matter of a short . a) wtll cons1st ~olely . of truly representative body of the of: the college. to be . both feels_ that it has a greater stake in period of time will be made Facu~t~ members who w1ll dec1de entire college community, will humiliating and demoralizing. the C<!lleg~ t~an. anyone else. But obsolete. Union College can not how lt lS run. determine its own jurisdiction Perhaps the real reason lies in the what lS mlssmg tS trust,, and trust continue to live in the past. . b) wll! be the faculty F. President Implements faCt tha~ $tudentS·feel themselves can not be comprom1sed as a adviSory functionary to the ACS ACS decisions. to be valid anq egu_al members of polit~ca~ means of ap~easing c) will have power over SUBMITTED BY: the ~ollege community and are certam m~erest groups. It lS. only r· H.f·· .p· EAN'UT matters solely pertaining to the MARK COVEN old and. wise enaugh tQ govern when thiS trust 1s. enhanced faculty PHILIP G T . themselves. The· school shoUld rather than compromised that a d) will nominate faculty GERALD A~~~~ . not consider itself to be .in loco real college comm.unity can s. TO· ·RE.· appointees to S-F . Committees:. DONALD KESSLER .par~itti.S, b~t should rather, develop. Represe~tatlOD sbauld r---- ....... _________________ ....:; · recogniz~. \ .the · students. right, h.«< eq~al o~ aU levels. of ~am pus indeed 'th-eir- dpty ·to govern their ,Jife. I m ~Ired . of hstemng . to ownJives~ :Respect the student as pe~ple say that the college exists Fea.turing PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS- 406 SJATE ST. a per5oil, ; as a .. member of the ma~ly for the benefit of one colle,ge .c6mmuriity .. Tb~. -c<>llege ~art•.cular group, for the truth i. can n<> Ion.ger treat the student as he~ m th~ ~act, the college must~.~=:======::::===~ a child, f9r nothing angers the exlst for aU of the groups PROFESSIONAL stuc;ient more, and that is what 'i'=\=;===-==========~ TYPING SERVICE the-~ college trustees, IBM Selectric administration, and faculty have 'Expe.rience in Doctoral done :and are continuing to· do. Dissertations; Reasonable Rates; Waterbeds A LIQUID LOVE-IN Special Student Price $64 Sold only at Knox Street Waterbeds East 138 Knox St, Albany off Madison- Between Lark & New Scotland 434-6508 'But returning to my criticism ·Call 462-6283. of the president's powers under the new governance proposqJ, t:1 permit me to note a number ·of -~ ~ n his powers. The president will sit -.l = O as chairman of the senate. The ~ [ oo · · , president also serves as chai~man ......:1 (!> · ~ t;d , 3 ~-r·r: =======::::::::::::.:£.__-_-:.....~_-_-·-_·- ====·-=--=·-=-==:· or: the agenda committee. these . u.. a ~ !:::. ..,.. are two tremendous powers in ~ e 1-d ~~J w themselves, yet the report does J. )- § 0 C: not stop here. The president \C ~ ~ Q Z designates which academic dean Ul g l~J ~., !s to vote on non-academic W ;;· ~ · :::! •. lSSUes. The president shall choose n ~ ~ ..... the chaim:tan for each of the 2. ·i>!!i ~ ~ College Committ.ee.s. The o ..... ~., . ~ ~ presi~ent can make personal ,_. =\ 0... appolntments to the c~mmittees, <\D ~ as well as create ad hoc committees. the president has lot been stripped of his arbitrary powers, but they have rather · become legitimized. A real ... -~· ~ ~ ~--c::: 'For three Generations.' Those Who Know ••. Have been recommending - ..... . . HERSHEL fi.iAURICE B WALTER ..... \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELR'Y

PAGE 4 CONCORDIENSIS, FEB. 26, 1971 -concotdy Sports Matmen Will, Tie On Road To Finish Season by MARK MINDEL In a quiet ending to an exciting season, the Garnet grapplers travelled to Roch~ster Tuesday to defeat RIP 20-14,. and salvage a tie with Rochester, 19-19. Had an unblemished season been on the line. more inspired wrestling probablywo.uld have taken place .. As it was, AI Calabm, Gary Gurney, Gary Morris, and Howie Benedict swept their two matches and Mark Zullo, Tracey Rich, and Pat Wardel.J each took one deci·sion. The Garnet finished the dual meet season at 11-1-l. In the R.I.T. match, Union was trailing 14-3, but iced the victory hy taking the next five matches. The Garnet however, were really hurting in the Rochester match after Pat Wardell lost a close 16-13 hattie, and Union nosedived to a 19-9 deficit with only two matches left. Coach Everling's boys needed pins from both Morris and Benedict to pull out the draw, and: the heavyweights responded with season ending hack-to-back flapjacks. . Final dual meet records are: AI Calabro, 14-1; Mark'Zulfo, 1.3'-2: · Howie Benedict '13-1-1; Gary Mo.rris, 12-3; Pat Wardell, 9~;:Gary Gurney. 7-5-1; Bill Benedict, 7-6; Mi'ke Sciacca, 3~1; Tracey Rich, 6- 7: !.en Soloman. 4-10, Penn Sheld.on, 0-4; Fred La.n~s., 0-10; and Jon ((ireck) Andrcadakis, 1-0 .. .'Vl:'i,V GRID COACH - Gerry E1•erling, j(mnerly li£fensire coach for the Garnet gridders, was named yesterday to replaa the retired George Flood as Union's fcwthal/ men(or. £\•erling, a Union !JiajJ(?r .f(>r liWJ years, \\'as a standotit linehatker at Syracuse.· Siena Drops Frosh Hoop by GARY LEIDERMAN In Wednesday night's finale at Siena. the llnion freshman basketballers ran intC> :a bigger team and some unfriendly officials. winding up on the short end of a 99-83 score. Since the Yearlings whipped Siena back on January 12. the Indian frosh has taken 12 straight to raise their season mark to 18-4. The '74 Gamet ended a fine 13-3 .season on a sad note with two straight losses. Union trailed 46-37 at halftime. shooting a poor 339(- as Bill Carmody connected on only ohe field goal in I I attempts breakaway layup after a steal. The score would have been much more lopsided if not for the fact that the Garnet press forced the Indians to commit 13 tumovers to Union's one in the first half. Whereas 18 fouls were charged to the visiting Dutchman yearlings in the contest. Siena was asse.ssed with but 7, Thus, the Indians hit 19 of 27 from the charity stripe to ,7 of 8 for Union. The Gamet track team hosts arch·ri\\al RPI tomorrow noon in . the Memori..al Fieldhouse. _Field events are tentatively slated to begin at 12 noon 9 while the running events should start at 12:30. TAKE OUR SJ.ACK TAC:B It's a well-consiqered op- tion. Neithe:r too lean or too loQse. Nor should the flare be anything but spare. The materials? Just the best - nothing less, will do. The effect? Flattering, without any hint of the effetE). Cager:s Eye Tourney After 89-81 Win Ooer Hamilton by BILL HOLL.ERAN The Gamet basketbalt team ran up against a winless but stubborn Hamilton team in Union~s finl;l'l .game of the season on Wednesday night in Clinton, N.Y., withstanding a first half Continental shooting barrage before prevailing, 89-81. The triumph crowned the 1970~71 Dutchmen as the winningest team in Unions history. Hamilton,· stunned the Dutchmen :in· =t:he game's early moments with ~a'ceurate shooting, and managed to connect on 55% of their shots before the first half end.ed wi;th ·: botlt teams deadlocked atAO. · : The Continentals, especially junwr guard Mike Scott, continued te have hot hands in the opening, moments of the second stanza. Scott, finished with 22 points on the evening, bucketed eight ·.of his team's first nine markers as the Continentals jumped out to a 49-46 lead with 17:00 remaining in the contest. The cold-shooting Gimiet got untracked behind Jim Tedisco, however, as the junior scored at 16:02 to put the Dutchmen up by one, 50-49. Union then opened a comfortable lead; but by the time five minutes remained in the contest, Hamilton had cut the Putchtnen . margin to a single point, 78-77. The Garnet fought back, however, as two tallies in a row by Dave Shames put Union up to stay. Tedisco, Union's all-time leading scorer, capped his record shattering regular season with another superlative performance, netting 30 points. Tom ·Bacher chipped in with 23 tallies, while Geoff Walker played. one of his best games of the year. Walker hit for 16 points and grabbed ll rebounds . The 0-14 Continentals, who · shot 52% overall en 32 of 62, placed five men in double fig:.ues. The Gamet connected on 37 of 70 attempts fo.r· a 53% performance and outrebounded shorter Hamilton, 41·-3'6. Union's win in the season finale upped the Garnet's mark to 18-3, .and kept them strongly in contention for a bid to the NCAA New York-New Jersey College Division regiona;l tourney. The regional sdectiorL committee met last night, but' only issued invites to Buffalo State. and C.W. Po.st. The group: wiH meet again next Wednesday· night :to determine ·who. will g~t: the remaining two bids. : • The Garnet, ranked: thira in: New York State behind:Post and: Buffalo State. no.w'.:•appear to• have the inside . track\ for , tlie: fqurth bid, even though streakin~ Albany State . smashed Utica' l)y n points Wednesday:· night for their ninth consec1:1tive win. The Great Danes have won li ef the~t last 13 an.d now stand at 15- 5 overall. Union's other close rival for the berth, Hartwick, sank to 15~5 Wednesday as they were defea:ted.. . Even if the Garnet manag~ to sweat out a bid ·to the tournament t'hey may not be .able to go tQ the playoffs because of <i·rule instituted bythe new league Union has tecenUy joined. . The circ11it, now only in· its, · infant stages and , calle:d the Colonial Athletic to\nference has ·tentatively ·q.Iled out post•season :play among ·its members, League . members , include. Unio:n, · Williams,: Trinity, . Tufts, . Bates, Bowdin; Colby, · Midcllehur,:y, Amherst, Hamilton, ap.d Wesleyan. If Union were· to get a bid 'to · the . tourney, the Game.t would have to .Jfetition the league for an exemption to t·he- rule. : ::.: ~ ::: :_·: :~:, :.·:· ~ b \\ .. ... • • • Mermen Si,llk ~~T,o :2~6~~: L. \'~' =~_·- '.' ·- .. · .. ~,_,·' \ t~.,...~ .... ; .. k~-<o ~·: Two · ·ou.al M::eiets :tteft~ : by GEORGE BAIN , :o Se~so.n: \¥.it'll;·~: 63~~ .t[t~ph. In the midst of its roughest Gootl:(tidividmil•perfohnarfces l)y stretch of the season, the Uni~n :Dave Sew~rd,::,;~~btt~\Foster aqd Col1ege swimming team has seen ·Steve Hill'~:. pe3\!i~~(i~ the high its record. dip to 2-6, with two ·points for the Dutchmen. dual meets remaining 1 Swimming · The ·. squ~d. !lOY\' p~ints past three m~ets in the· space of seven today's meet, which the Garnet days, the Garnet has dropped had a ,good chance of winning, contests to Rochester and RIT and the dual finale next and swam today against sub-.500 Wednesday 'at home against Trinity. Hamilton, to the State meet,next Both losses to the Rochester weekend that doses out the area schools wete one~sided season. affairs: tast Saturday Uriion traveled west and lost to Rochester, 63-45. The overpowering Yellowjackets upped their record to 6-2, as they took first place in nine of the thirteen events and swept three. Then, Wednesday afternoon, Union dropped its .sixth meet of the season to the visitors from RIT who finished their perfect 12- THE .1EUROPE I . . . .. , I Round-trip DC-8 JET from New York For only $210\ round trip, • Icelandic Airlines flies. Y9U' di· . rect to Luxembourg in the. heart · . Qf Eur.ope for bE3st cor.~l')ections to' everywhere. Daily jets. No ·groups to join. Stay one day or · . up .to 45, Hy ·Icelandic-for low- e sf fares to Iceland, Luxem- bourg, E.nglana,: Scotla,nd; Nor• way,, Sweden and Der:~rnark. · Special fares for students and · groups remaining overseas more than 45 days. Major credit cards ~9r Pay Later Plan. Mail covpoh; then call you·r travel .agent •. *Add $20 one way on Fri. and Sat. ~-------------------1 : To: Icelandic Airlines 1 . 1 630Fiflh Ave., N.Y. 10020 1 I (212) PL 7·8585 : : I 1 Send folderCI'l on Lowest Jet 1 Fares to Europe 0 Student 1 FaresD I• 1 Name·--~---- 1 1 Street-~---­ : J : CitY---~~--- St(lte ____ Zip __ 1 I My tr<~vel. agent is ---'-- 1 I I . . . . I , __ -~--_. __ _: ____ ~----·_I ICELANDIC Al~liNir Nonetheless the Garnet . were outplayed. Siena's point total of 99 is not at all surprising in view of their 54% shooting. Big Eric S(appenback. 6' 9\ and 240 lbs., popped in 9 of 12 buckets including all 7 attempts in the· second half. He totalled 22 p9irits and 19 rebound!t. alth,p(igh; Carmody made a determined effort to pull' ·it out singlehandedly by tossing in 18 in the second half to hi: the 20- point mark. 420 S+a·te St. - Open Thurs. 'HI 9 0 .!,[)}jj,J1}1J}JJ \ . ALL SALES FINAL LOWEST AIRFARES ·To ·EUROP'E• of ariy stheduled airline .t. ~

