( !\ :r -~-0·;. -~~~: ,. ,,. . I .; . \ J. ( 01 ; \o ~ ; ~. ·' H I'! / ·rl I l:j'' 0 j \ ' (1\ • . ) ) \ Jlj fo'll11Md at UJJion College in 01877 Wednesday, September 20, 1972 20 cents Enteman Accepts Acting Provost Post by PHYLLIS R. EDELMAN Profes~or Willard F. Enteman, chairman of the Department of · Philosophy , has been named Provost of the college. After being offered the position by President Martin, Dr. Enteman accepted on August 15th with the stipulation that the search for a . :permanent Provost would continue. Formerly chairman of the committee in search of a new Provost, Dr. Enteman disclosed that the committee received over two hundred applications, interviewed over twenty applicants, and brought three of ·these to campus. These applicants, he said, did \not receive an enthusiastic audience when brought on campus.\ Kottke Performs Saturday Night In its unanimous report the Committee recommended pro- cedural changes in looking for a Provost. These included less Acting Provost Willard l:.t1tf!l17an (right), and Dean (?f\ Faculty Martin Lichterman vhser\'e the arri\·al (J/\ the Class of 1976, the larKest in Union's history. stress in finding a person with a Herbert E. Wylen has since been science or engineering back- .named Assistant Dean of Faculty. ground. The Committee agreed Dr. Enteman admits that at that the position of Provost this point he has \no ambitions requires an individual who thinks for the job\ of Provost. Although of tl•e College as a whole unit, \heart is in the classroom\ he \':it~o~t partiality _toward ~ny says this position pr~vides d!SClphne. Further sug,gestwn ···another view of the college which \:as ~de that 'the Committee be he finds interesting. photo by .Jeff Weilburg \lost in minutia\ of decision making. His idea is to bring the tools of administrative work to bear on colleges, giving managerial control to the different units of the college and making department chairmen actuaU~b-administrators of their departments. Departments would be free to use their allocated budgets as they wish, while keeping the lines of communication between Provost and department heads open for free-flowing criticism. by ROBltRT SHUGOLL Union's- :concert: season- -will open this Saturday night with a show headlining Leo Kottke. Admission wil!.J, be just 50 cents, and the performance is scheduled to begin at 8:30. Tickets go on sale at Memorial Chapel at 7 p.m. and the doors open at 7:45. Leo Kottke is · considered by many to be the finest contemporary bottleneck guitarist in this country. It wouldn't be fair to categorize his style of music, but you could say he blends a unique cross of folk, classical, and country guitar. The likes of John Fahey· and Doc Watson have influenced him greatly. Kottke's greater fame has been in the mid-west, but he appears to have a surprisingly strong and growing contingent of followers in this area. He has put out three albums to date, and his latest release on Capitol, \Greenhouse;\ has drawn considerable attention from critics. If you haven't heard Leo Kottke you ought not pass up this opportunity. It should be a truly interesting concert. \ CONCORDIENSIS, Union's student newspaper, is once again recruiting workers for the new academic year. Eager journalists are needed for a plethora of responsibilities. You can write news or features stories or work for the sports department. You can help to lay out the paper, edit stories, and write . · headlines on Monday and Thursday nights (from now on). or you can paste up the paper at the printer's on Tuesdays and Fridays. You can obtain advertisements for the business staff or take . pictures everyone will enjoy. There are ml}nY people to see if you have any immediate questions. For general news and editorial quest~ons, see Appearing with Kottke will be Roulette recording artist Don Cooper, likewise· a guitarist who picks and sings folk music. The remainder of the term will be highlighted by folksinger Jim Dawson, returning after last year's success at the Coffee House, rock artists Dave Mason and Glass Harp, and blues man Taj Majal. A season ticket is presently available for the five fall term concerts in Student Activities at $6.50, a $3 savings. diszmssed .due to overwork and Except for the external affairs, pers~nal btases. . public relations and long~range ~1th R. Gordon . Bmgham, planning responsibilities of the Asststant to the ~resident and President, the Provost ass,umes Charles Olto~, Assistant Dean of ultimate responsibility for all Faculty leavmg ~ a gal? would college affairy. Dr. Enteman have. . be~n ~eft m the would like this to be a year of admmtstratlve hierarchy had a transition with decision making Pro~ost not . been named. pushed down to the lowest level President Martm therefore asked possible. He hopes that neither Dr. Enteman to accept ·the President Martin nor he will be position of Acting Provost. Prof. Continued on Page 2 \The Way We Were\ Finds Its Way To· Union by GEORGE BAlN The Union grounds have been transformed into a nameless, northeastern · coilege of 1937 for the shooting of some scenes from the forthcoming Columbia Pictures' movie \The Way We Were,\ adapted · from Arthur Laurents' book. · The collegiate locale within the book is obviously Cornell University, but the movie production crew decided that the Ithaca campus, with too many •modern' buildings, was unsuitable for its fllm needs. Columbia then chose Williams College as the scene, but Williams backed out of the George Bain (312 Fox), Rita arrangement when Columbia M d • (306. w· t) Al· could not guarantee that oran 1 ·· es.-, 9r . Reisch (104 South)... fhose .• · . ·shooting would be completed interested in photpgi~jihy · · before the beginning of Williams' should visit Jeff .. :W~'lburg academic year. (251 Davidson) or L~s:~ernan During its negotiations with (Chi Psi); business 1 j}enple· :c-an Williams, Columbia contacted contact Mike .H_urle.y ·(Sigam Sam Morrell of the New York Chi). State Employment Service . for Most of the. editoriill staff the hiring of 'extras.' When will be at the West College Morrell learned that Williams Activities Exposition on had turned down Columbia, he Sunday evening- to meet any suggested the Union campus and and all prospective journalists. contacted Prof. Frank Gada of Or drop 'by the CONCORDY the English department. office next Monday at 7 p.m., Prof. Gada, in turn, notified when the ned issue is .Union's Public Relations made,up; CONCOROY is Di11ector; Bernard R. Carman; by located abov.e Old Chapel, the middle of August, Union had around the corner from the announced that scenes from Rathskellar look for \The Way We Were 1 ' would be Upward Bound and AOC filmed here during Orientation signs and go upstairs. Week The Union campus met the two· criteria for the college scenes. · The film required a classroom of the proper vintage - to be found in Carnegie Hall - and a gymnasium for the senior prom. The main floor of Alumni Gymnasium and the wrestling and handball rooms at the Gym's north end will be pre-empted for some scenes. Old Chapel and Hale House will be used in addition to Carnegie. Outdoor scenes have been shot at the Ches~~r Arthur statue and around Nott Memorial. The story of the book concerns the reunion of two college students during World War II, their marriage, and subsequent divorce. The Union campus will be used in flashback scenes. although the film may open with a campus shot. Barbra Streisand plays the part of Katie Morosky, head of the campus Young Communist League and .an aspiring writer. Robert Redford is Hubbell Gardiner, a campus jock as well as a prominent literary figure. Continued on Page 3 Dr. Enteman still faces a backlog of work. As of now, ~..ommittee appointments of students have yet to be made although faculty members for the committees, including the Ad Hoc Committee ·on Racism have already been appointed. A committee in search of a new P.rovost has yet to be appointed. Dr. Enteman does not plan to be involved with this committee. If offered after this year, Dr. Enteman said he would P.Ossibly consider permanent acceptance of the job as Provost. Beulah Sanders, chair- woman of the powerful National Welfare Rights Organization, will speak tomorrow night (Thursday) at convocation ceremonies marking the beginning of Union's 178th year, Her speech is set for 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. NWRO, espousing free- dom, dignity, and justice for every person, has proposed a $6500 minimum annual income for a family of four, based on Department of Labor statistic!). Last March, Ms. Sanders and NWR 0 spearheaded the Children;s March for Survival, a Washington demonstration that attracted 50,000 people . The March opposed President Nixon's Family Assistance Plan and promoted the causes of children, poverty's major victims. 0 NWRO held its convention' in Miami .at the same time as the July Democratic convention, where Ms. Sanders led the flotlr fights for many NWRO p~opo~,ll_IS .. .

CONCORDIENSIS~ Wednesday, ·September 20; 1972 CONCORDIEmS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief. ................ , ........... George Bain Associate Editors ......................... Tim Cain Matt Swartz Managing Editors ........................ Rita Mmandi Jim Rostenberg Features Editor ........................... Al Reisch Sports Editor ............................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .............................. Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ........................ Mike Hurley \i . l' Ad .. . atwna vert1smg ................... Mark Shulman Subscriptions ............................... Mike Bernstein Executive Editors.......... . .......... Peter Dickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Your First Chance There will be a meeting of all those interested in joining the Fall Lacrosse Club, Monday, September 25 at 4:30 in the gym. * * * * There will be an important meeting of the Students for McGovern on Monday, September 25, at 7:30 p.m. in Humanities I 15. * * * * Oreo Creme Sandwiches are the Official Cookies of .the Mountebanks. * * * * There wil'l be a meeting of all students registered for the ~enior thesis course in Economics in Social Sciences 115 on Friday, September 22 at 4:30 p.m. Preferences for thesis advisors will be solicited at that time. Students 1,mable to attend please contact Prof. McNamara. * * * * This Friday night in the courtyard behind South College there will be a WRUC remote broadcast. Beer will be ten cents. Last May, two members of this ye;· r's editorial hoard It all begins at seven-thirty. wrote letters to 55 incoming freshmen inviting them to work * * * * for Concordiensis and explaining thdt they would be The first meeting of the 40- working for \what we hope \\ill be an interesting and yard-line-out-to-lunch club will be held this Saturday at none respected, socially conscious organ of student opinion.\ other than the 40 yard line for That still applies. A student newspaper should cover all the Worcester game. All old the news, events, and feeliNgs on campus as honestly and members are required to attend fairly as it can, but it should .also involve students in those and all new members are · ' f\ · welcome. 1ssues anu a 1a1rs which, while nt)f directly rebted to the * * . * * campus, still affects the lives ot· readers, as students and as All those interested in human beings. Hence, social concern. purchasing copies of Freshman For those familiar with last year's Concordy this may be a Record 76 (bound $4.00, radical change. For those committed editors listed above this unbound $3.00) please see Mrs. will be a .great undertaking. Thme of you who do not choose Marra in the Student Activities Office. All those who have paid a to actually join us should at least thoroughly read what we deposit can pick up their copies want to be a well-written, interesting, concerned newspaper. also. You may not agree with everything we present, but we think * * * * that they will be ideas and affairs about which you should Legitimate student organiza- know and, hopeful]_)'·, become concerned. tions desiring to use the BLITHER Wanted: Tutors in ail subjects. Register with Mrs. Reid room 22, Geology Building. Above Old * * * * Dr. Thomas Dowling, new director of the Counseling Center, Clnd Prof. Miriam Conable, counselor to students, are in their new quarters on the second .floor of Wells House, behind Smith House and Alpha Chapel. * * * * Delta Phi, on Union Avenue. Reduced price Season Concert The entrance is from ,~J,tle campus Tickets are now available from side. Mrs. Clark, Counseling t:he Social Committee. Attend Center secretary, has her office at five concerts for only $ 6 . 50 and the head of the stairs in Wells save $3 over individually bought House. Phone number is 370- tickets. You can see: 6161. Before 8:30 a.m. or after Leo Kottke and Don Cooper 4:30 p.m. the counselors can be on Sept. 23 reached through · the College Jim Dawson and Gun Hili operator. R d 0 · · Dr. Dowling comes. to Union • oa on ct. 6 Glass Harp on O~t. 7 from Niagara Falls Community Dave Mason and Jimmy and Coll'ege, His undergraduate Vella on Oct, 21 education was at the University Taj Mahal and Spider John of Rochestet. He receiv{)d his Koerner on Nov. 10. Ph.D from S.U.N.Y. at Buffalo. Tickets are on sale at the In the near future there wilt be Student Activities Office, and an Open House fot the College you may phone 37 0 _ 6118 for community at the Center•s new specifi.c information. offi~es. Watch Con~ordy for the C l notice. * * * * · ol ege Announces New Pet Controls The problem of pets on the campus has become an increasingly serious one over the past several years: persons have been attacked, health laws! violated, classes disrupted in: various ways, and damage to: buildings and to grounds 1· incurred. At its April 13 meeting, . the College Senate discussed a series of proposals on pet control from the Committee on Environmental · Studies. This ' committee made a careful analysis of the problem which included a survey of policies at other similar colleges. L After September 1, 1972, each animal on the Union College campus must have an individual owner who will be responsible for its care and restriction to authorized areas. Stray animals will be ~moved. But a newspaper is only as good as--can only try as hard Social Committee's sound system · f for one· ··of their events must What follows, then, are a series as-- Its staf . And we would like as large and committed a notifiy Art Forsdick at 370 -0 159 of guidelines for pet control 2. Animals must be on a k1sh (maximum length 15 ft.) and under the direct .and immediate control of the owner when moving from place to place on campus (this means ·that the leash must be held by the owner.) At all other times, animals must be housed under conditions adequate to their we!f~re and the safety of members: of the community. 3. Every animal must be. licensed in accordance with Schenectady City Law. •· staff as possible-freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and ONE WEEK prior .to their which go into effect with the Fall seniors. This is- your opportunit:, if not for our sake, then anticipated event. Term, l9?2- 3 : for the readers' sake, don't pas; it up. We care. Do y;:z Kottke Pia ys '!~~i~ ~~~!E=cah2~m~~d commuedfromQ!l SaturdaY talking about voter registration with a friend of mine the In the past, there seems to have following written by one Barry McGuire came to been some amount of dissatis- mind ... There are few better statements of the need for voter faction with the concert~ presented at Union, and a great registration. Called the' \Eve of Destruction\ it goes like this: deal of this is due to a lack of \This darn world, it is exploding knowledge about the Social Violence flaring, bullets loading... Committee operation. This You're old enough to kill, but not for voting school suffers from many of the y d • b r · b h • problems Billy Graham ou on t e 1eve m war, ut w at s that gun you're mentioned when he closed the toting .. · Fill mores. And even the Jordan River has bodies floating. . The biggest hassle is that of And you tell me over and over and over again my money. Artists are asking for friend more and more money, and people on this campus who ask when the Dead or the Allman Brothers are coming are not being realistic. Consider that the You don't believe we're on the eve of destruction. Think of all the hate there is in Red China, Then take a look around to Selma, Alabama You may leave here for four days in space, but when top groups cost a minimum of $10,000 and Union's Memorial Chapel has a seating capacity of you return it's the same old place . grace The pounding of the drum~ the pride and disgrace You can carry your dead, but don't leave a trace Hate your next door neighbor, but don't forget to say And you tell friend me over and over and over again my You don't believe we're on the Eve of Destruction. Can't you understand what I'm trying to say Don't you feel the fears I'm feeling today 1,000. The Social Committee doesn't want to charge students rip-off prices, so figuring $3 a ticket you can do your own math and see · how much money is lost. Other · problems encountered include an inability to get groups to come to Schenectady for lack of nearby supporting dates, p_ackage deals demanded by the artists signed. and the inevitability of If that button is pushed there's no running away There'll be no one to save with the whole world In a occasional cancellations. grave ... Take a look around you boy ... For example, highly touted boy. it\~ bound to scare you Randy Newman signed a contract to play the upcoming agent, gave no specific explanation, but hinted at a lack of a closeby supporting date and a wish to fulfill personal obilgations. There is very little the students or the Social Committee can do about this situation. As far as getting the biggest groups the best ' solution would be to construct a larger concert hall on campus. Despite this hindrance ·the Social Committee has presented first rate entertainment in the past by booking primarily up-and-coming acts, ~hat have been well received .-1n concert elsewh!}re, !>efore their prices skyrocket. Last year we were fortunate to hear groups like the Mahavishnu Orchestra and the J. Geils Band for free while their popular.ity was starting an upswing. FERRO Pharmacy 575 NottStrMt Schenectady~ N. Y. ,. 7..0510 And you tell me over :1 nd owr again my friend ... Orientation Concert, hut· a few and over and over weeks before the event he simp!\_· One hf<!Kit froill hwA4tll Gato You don't believe we're on the eve of destruction No no you don't believe we're on the eve destruction.\ * * * * * of Whatever your affilliation, register to vote in the upcoming ele~tion. To some this is viewed as a privilege, to others as an mconvenience ... To the concerned and thmkmg human being who cares about what happens to other human beings, it should be viewed as an obligation. amr cancelled. He, or rather his ' . ... I l\oncordiensis '' puolished n er} I ucsdu) and 1-.rida) dtiring the school year c.\cepl during examination and \'aeatton periods bl' the student hod\ of l'nion College. Schencrtad). N.Y. ~atwnal advenisit;g rcpresentati\e; ~ational Educational Advertising Sen icc. Inc. College P·ublishcrs Repre,entuti.vt, :>iational Educational Advertising Senice. Inc .. :\.Y.C. Editorial Otltce. Old Gym. Union College. Puhlication Office. fhc Je\\i'h World Publicatiom. 771 State Street. Schenecradv. ~.Y. 12.107. 346-235(i. Enkred ·in the Schenectadl post office as Second Cl~ss Mail Matter. !Subscription 20 cents a copy. a yea·r delivered anvwhere 111 the United State,. Deadline for all copy. whkh must be typed and double-spaced. i> 7 p.lil, on Monday and Thursday at the C'oncordy office. ubovc Old C'ha.pel. Office telephone numoer id70-61 55. but the office is onl\ in use art Monda\ and 1hursday nights. For all editorial matters. call the ed.itor-in-chief at 393. 1640: for information call Student Acti1ities Office ut 370·6118. 4. All members of tfie campus · community, iacludi~g those living off-campus, wisl)ing to use the grounds of the campus for their pets must register each animal with the Court' of Traffic and Pets for a fee commensurate with the associated costs to the College for maintenance. Persons will be asked to show evidence that item 3 above has l been satisfied before campus registration can take place. A tag for identification will be issued upon receipt of application and fee and must be worn by the animal to which it applie{ 5. Students may shelter pets in· their rooms· · provided that roommates give written consent (forpi tto be provided a,~ time of registratiGn) and that floormates are not disturbed by these animals. Pets must be kept in the room of their ....pwner when housed in collegi\residences; pets may not run loose · ·in ·such buildings. 6. Animals are specifically prohibited at all times from: all eating and cooking areas (Hale House, West College, Rathskeller, fraternity kitchens · and dining rooms, co-op kitchens and dining rooms, dormitory kitchenettes, etc.); the Library; all laboratories; the Bookstore; Alumni Gym; Field House; Computer Center; Infirmary; Memorial Chapel. Animals may be prohibited from any classroom or office at the discretion of the appropriate faculty or administrative staff member. 7. Owners hold full liability for aU damage and harm done by their animals; the College assumes no liability whatever. 8. Any member of the campus community may file a complaint with the Court of Traffic and Pets concerning violation of any of the above. The Court shall have the power to impose fines of $5 ·to $25 and/ or rule that an animal must be removed from the campus until corrective action has been taken, or removed permanently.

new the 370- be lege nity his be the 1972, an be and as. lt.1.sb and diate on ) At the the be. use fbr the pus tag m• of le , y y ··.- ~;·; ·1'' .. a .: 1 ... ~ _ .. _·'? .J r ~ CONCORDIENSJS; Wednesday; S<!Pte'moer}40,' i972 ' ' . -' .~, !.) Th , .. ~. ,.. . ..., .-·'_? w. · . . w· .. ·· _ .. ·e · · ay . · e Cqntinued frqm Page 1 influence in Hollywood. To After meeting five years out of Hubbell's distress, she refuses to college and marrying, the pair disclose what she knows, and goes to Hollywood, where they separate. Hubbell will film a book he has ' Originally, Columbia llltended written. They are divorced after. to·use only ten minute£ of Union Katie is summoned to testify scenes in the movie, but since before the House Unataerican director Sydney Pollack has been Activities Commission investi- so struck · by the campus, more toc)ta1~e will be taken here than ·w ,, .. ··ere had been envisaged. may :last past the original terminal date of next Monday. There has been no contr financial arrangement J...o•\'~' 0 \'' Union and Columbia, but, .says Mr. Carman, '\the College expects Columbia to be suitably grateful\ for the use of the campus. In a letter of August President Harold C. Martin wrote that Union gave Columbia to shoot here uuu.l\:.111.!;; that there'll be enough fun and 'profit' - in the form of blic relations, if nothing else ......., to make the project worth th~ . it will undoubtedly · Catalogue Changes Last spring, the All College Senate passed a series of to the academic and 1 uu~n•-•a• regulations listed in the Catalogue. The changes not made for the 1972-73 · ........ a·\\l5''\'• and hence, the · following statements supersede This past Sunday the class of 1976 arrived on campus, disembarked, unloaded, moved in, got acquainted, and began the process qf' adjustment to all the little things that make academic l(fe in Schenectady such a unique experience. Also entering Union this fall for the first time will be 125 transfer students bringing the tolal undergraduate population to 1900. photos by Jeff W eilburg ,, •·\··\ the rules in the Catalogue. •· . . ·•· I. A student, with the consent Redford On Campus photos by Les Kernan .. -· , ... his faculty adviser, may ta:ke than a full course load' during a given term. 2. A student, with the consent of the instructor, may -:nter a : course up to the end of the third 1 . week of classes, provided the · · course is not scheduled to meet ' less than ten weeks. (This · proposal ·does not alter the freedom of students to routinely . ·••• '\\''u'~'\' ·courses during the first .; • week .of each term.) 3. A student may take an \incomplete\ in a course prior to the end of the tenth week of classes or the final examination, which comes later, provided that the instructor approves, or, if the instructor defers, · the Dean approves. Miss Bergan Joins Admissions Staff 4. A student may change his faculty adviser at any time if the faculty member, who would be the new adviser, consents. 5. A student has until the end of the third week of a term to decide whether or not to take a . course \Pass-Fail.\ The appointment of the first female member of the Union College admissions staff has been announced by the college. Susan M. Bergan, a June graduate of Union and member of the college's first regular coeducational class, became an assistant director of admissions transferred to Union from Brandeis University in 1970. She was graduated cum laude in June with a degree in psychology. Union was an all male college from its. founding in 1795 until the fall of 1970 when the first full time women were enrollt:d in the regular undergraduate program. All previous mcmhers of the 6. Upperclassmen on financial aid may operate an automobile during the academic native, she college admission~ staff have effective last July I. A Pittsfield, Mass. ATTENTION! tudents, Faculty, and Staff Rent furniture while at school short-term as little as 3 months Low Cost - s20 for complete • LIVING ROOM • BEDROOM • DINETTE SET Albany-Sherman Furniture Rental Rt. 9, south of the ~atham Circle 785-3050 STOCK UP FOR HOMECOMING WEEKEND LOWEST LlQUOR AND WINE PRICES IN N.Y. STATE at Moffet's Liquor Store~ CORNER OF VAN VRANKEN AVENUE GET YOUR CHILLED WINES EARLY FOR THE .ROCHESTER GAME ~------------------------------------------~ been men. FREE Complete listing of magazine subscriptions at discount l rates. Write: ~ G!FT TREE, College Dept. Bx. 5922, Grand Central Sta. . New York, N.Y. IG:n7 MCAT-D.AT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB OCAT NAT'L. BDS. • Preparation for tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools • Six and twelve session courses • Small groups •voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field • Lesson schedule can be tai Ia red to meet indi.Vidual needs. Lessons can be spread over a period of several months to a year. or for out of town students, a penod of one week •Opportunity· for rllview of past lessons via tape at the center Special Compact Courses during Weekends - I ntersessionJ Summer Sessions STAN LEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 1675 East 16th Street Brooklyo, N V .Y~ ~ (212) 336-5300 rc~. . (516) 538--4555 ~...!i!:!. )AYS.EVENINGS,WEEKENOS ~ Branches in Major Cities in U,S.A. The Tuloruy; &lwol wllh the Natwnwtdt.RrpUialton

4 Wednesday, September 20, 1972 Rearic Will Lead Gridders v. WPI by MARK MINDEL The confusion which Robert Redford and Harhrtt Streisand arc inflicting on the campus community seems to have spread to the Union College football team. The only thing definite this year i~ that Tom Anacker. the All-FCAC linebacker ami Academic All-American. will he the team captain. He will he sharing the coin-calling duties with a special gume captai·n na mt:d each week. Ana,ckcr heads 'I corp of 22 returning lettermen who hope to re\ erse last year\ Jr(i)itrating sL·ason. ':l'fhe main problem is,, .. al qpar:tcrhack. Coach Gerry Everling has hcen shuffling 4 men in . and out without c.,uhlishing a ddini.te choice. In prc-.cason it appeared to he a hattk hctwecn seniors Daw )~earic. wh() played so hrillia.ntly last season before tearing his Klicc in the St. Lawrence game, and l1>cal star Hohhy Mitchell, the \. ersati le Bison who not only handled the play-calling hut wa:-; ll utstanding. as the place kicker. (iullderland's Gary Lauver and Albany's Joe Urschel seemed destined lor hack-up work. pri1i1ari!y aimed at seasoning t h~m for next year. IIH.:n on Monday. Everling. indicated to .. the Capital District College Sportswriter's Associa- tion that the battle was between Rearic and Lauver and that although the situation was \really not settled\ he would go into the game with' Rcaric. David. however. has hecn having hoth personal prohkms and trouhlc regaining the confidence and assurance which mark his g.amt:. l'uesday brought rumms concerning Rearic quitting. hut they pnncd false. Still. it's a tossup as to who will he starting Saturdav. . Mean.whilc. Union preps for W orcrster Polv coming off a 27-0 scrimmage l(.lSS to Vermont. while W. P.l. outscrimmaged a lesser Trinity sqund 6-0. Union has not lost to Worcester sincc 1944. Everling was not too disappointed in the showing at Vermont. He played the first squad for only a little over a half .and they allowed one real According tv Coach (ierry Everling, he may be even hetter tMs rear than he was last year. It's sophomore .\·tarting ha(thack Ron Westbrook, ready for Saturday's opening game, at home with Worcester Poly. photo by Les Kernan touchdown and a fluke one on an interception return with only seconds left. Everling was most ['leased with a goal-line stand and the fact that there were no injuries. Halfback Bruce Mathias did not play because of .a ~prained wrist. Discounting the scrimmage Everling called the pre-season the \best ever'\ in the three years he has been around. The defense is 4uicker than ever and the offense has run the option better than hefore. The starting backfield Saturday should he Mathias and Ron Westbrook at the half. (Everling says. \if you ca_n believe it. Ronnie has improved over last year, he has more confidence and knows the optons well\) with AI Albano at fullback. Rick Jas1czak and Mike Deshler will back-up. At the ends should be Geoff Walker and AI Gilewicz, while the line will be Bob Wilson and Pete Feamant, the tackles, Dave Giarrusso and Bob Hesse at the guards. and Skip Lega anchoring the center. The ·defense should see a front five of Charlie Weekes, Don Rupsis, Jim Kewley, Mike Martin, and Bill Spelman, with Anacker, Greg Breedlove, and Jack Siedlecki at the linebacker spots, and Jerrey Cuffey, Dave Ricks, and Mike Raab in the backfield. Curtis Rowe has been working out on defense this year and could see action. Ken Grey, whose shoulder was operated on in August, has been working hard this fall 1 md could be back in three weeks. Coach Everling did not expect him to be available at all this year. ...................................................... ~ Uzuner Appointed t ~ Maurice B. ~ ~ ~ Gr.aubart & Sons ; . Trainer And Coach .. '. '' For three Generations ' .. ' Shamil S. tJ;uner. a physiotherapist and physical coming to the United States in ;~ , 1962. He was a physiotherapist at ~ 166 J St For Honest ServiceM : · Sports Huddle · Rugby And Russians ·by BUFFALO · The sum.rner of 1 72 is now part of history. The fall season has finaUy~arrived anc.t with it, football,. soccer, and innumerable other sports 41 Heading the list in popularity is football ;for a reason which tnomeiitarily escapes me. The only possible reason I can think of is it is a much needed diversion on an otherwise boring Saturday afternoon. A feotbaH game is a good place to see what kind of people go to, and have gone to, URion College. The antics of the cheerleaders delight all and the only people who are not drinking Boone's Farm ate too young to k.now what the stuff is anyway. Next on the list is soccer. Last year's soccer team. was the best in Union College history and this year the team sirould afford many hours of exciting viewing for alL Following soccer is cross country, · which has been aptly described as competitive jogging. The team is good, however, and it has ·never received pro.per coverage in the paper, coverage which the team so richly deserves. Being a cross country runner requires severe dedication, mote so than any other sport, and its participants must be n~garded as athletes in the true sense of the word. The there is rugby. Ah, yes, dear .old rugby, the forerunner of modern day football and the more brutal of the two. Basically, rugby is a more cpntrolled version of kill the guy with the ball. The '75 Freshman Record described rugby as a sport \for those with sadistic and/ or masochistic tendencis.\ Well, being a rugby veteran of two seasons, I can say with conviction that the Record is totally correct in its assumption. The team rarely wins bt!t that isn't so important The party after every game mor:e than makes up for bruises incurred in the- game. As the bumper sticker says, \It takes leather balls t0 play rugby.\ Last but~. not least is lacrosse, which is a club sp,<;>rt ,~n the fall. The \fastest sport on foot\ is a definite must for th0se who like'·action. . Sports are here for aH to participate in, whether as a player or spectator, Take advantage of the offerings and have a good time. Sports are a part of college life an!f participation is a part of sports. * * * * .. ···\i' !' . Breaking away from the college sports scene, let us take a look at the outside world. The Pirates have it wrapped up and the Red Sox are surprising even owner Tom Yawkey, who attributes the Sox's overnight success to the fact that the Red Sox are scoring more runs than their opponents. I was told by a reliable source, who holds a high position in the Red Sox family and therefore cannot divulge.his name, that Mr. Yawkey plans to patent this process of winning ball games and sell it to the highest bidder. So much for baseball. Let us now discuss i sport which currently commands world-wide attention, the sport of ice hockey~ In the four games to date that I have seen between -the Russians and Team Canada, it dawned upon me that about 98% of the world's hockey fans vastly underestimated the Russian skaters. Not only have the Russians exhibited great team play but the goal-tending by Mr. Tretiak has left Tony Esposito and Ken Dryden wondering why Tretiak wasn't born in Canada. Half of the goalies in the NHL should watch Tretiak -they might learn something. The only bright spot for Team Canada has been the steady play of Phil Esposito, of the . Stanley Cup Champ Boston Bruins. Another highlight is the play of center Bobby Clarke of the Philadelphia Flyers, who continues to prove that a diabetic is a normal person. The overall play of Team Canada, however, has been so poor that many Canadian fans were cheering the Russians on, especially in Vancouver. This constitutes praise in the highest form from the world's most knowledgable hockey fans. All we can do now is wish Team Canad.a the best of luck in the remaining games and hope that Tretiak will lose his touch. ... FOR LIQVO.R & WINE Try JAKE LI,PSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR4-1888 LUIQ.J'S REST,A'URANT SPECIALIZING JN'· Italian • Amerl~n Food IU~ BARRm ST. Schenect.dy 01 6-9744 T Enjoy Sizzling· Steaks and Chops · . Visit Our Cot:ktait· 8al\' , 1 education teacher at the Pomfret School in Connecticut for the past 10 years. has been appointed athletic trainer at Union College. Long Island Hospital in Boston ·~~, ay ' And Good Jewelry • fora vear before his appointment) ............................................................. ~ •·----------------.-:;. _______ ...,._.., at P~mfret where he served as athletic trainer and coach of ll1uner. who will also coach the Union cross country team. replaces Chris A. Gentile who resigned to go into business in Florida. ;.\; ·~jltive of · Rucssia_. the ~c\': tralllie:f' has degrees from (Ja/1 Teachers College of the University of Ankara. Turkey. He was an officer in the Turkish army, taught in high schools in Turkey and at American Roberts College in Istanbul before gymnastics and track. DIA.MOND ENGAGEMENT & WEDDING RINGS 3;000 ring selections in all . styles at 50% discount to students, staff, and faculty. Buy direct from leading manufacturer and SAVE! 1 /:z carat $179, -Y-1 carat ()nly $299. For free color folder write: Box 42, Fanwood, N.J. 07043 Peter Pause Restaur.ant RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128•page, mai! order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose $1,00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES,. CALif. 90024 .. (213) 477-8474 • 477·5493 \We need a local salesman'' t)

h~;ts other which of is kind of of the best in j. many ountry, proper so as of The with with The every the but ·- or time. at Sox ;:, who of the the HL a lly he sh pe 'founded at ·Union College· in 1877 Vol.102, No.2 Tuesday, September 26, 1972 ,.B \ t. ' P d .· yzan 1ne .. roce ··ure :\.~- / Replaces 60% Limit by TIM CAIN Note: Sometimes it seems that an issue of Concordy would not be complete without an article on the tenure situation here at Union. Executive Editor Peter BiCk:erman almost made a caree-; out of the tenure controversy last year. This year it's my turn, and I hope this article will make clear soJDe of the more important features of an issue about which much confusion and controversy have ce11tered. In later issues of Concordy, watch for letters from weary and impatient officials wishing to make corrections and clarifications of points which I have left completely muddled and confused. Tenure has traditionally meant job security in the academic profession. Basically, a pPofessor who has been granted tenure can only l;>e fired after certain requirements have been satisfied and established procedures have been carried out. Naturally enough, this rarely occurs; it is fairly difficult to satisfy requirements that demand proof of the faculty member's incompetence or inadequacy. Generally speaking, tenure is granted to those faculty members who have done research and published as faculty members should, and have taught well, and show promise of continued excellence in their field. The controversy over tenure at Union arose last year when it became apparent that several faculty members who had \taught well,\ published, and were fully qualified for tenure would be turned down. They would be denied tenure. it seemed, because the Administration (i.e., President and Trustees) wanted to limit the number of tenured professors to 60% of the whole faculty. Kottke Amazes The arguments for and against the 60% tenure limit have been discussed at length in the past. Budget requirements and financial considerations mandate a limit on the number of higher- salaried tenured professors, the Administration pointed out. The college needs regular infusions of \New Blood,\ in the faculty, the President argued. . Perhaps the most telling And Guitars 'Sing' argument centered around the need for curricular flexibility: It just is not efficient use of resources when, because of too many tenured faculty in one discipline, the college cannot shift resources from one area to another in response to. the changing demands of student enrollment. by ROBERT SHUGOLL Leo Kottke brought a near capacity crowd to its feet Saturc!ay night when he closed his 70 minute set in Union's premier 1972-73 school. year concert. The crowd, which seemed to be in a rock-and-roll frame of mind, was quickly overtaken by Kottke's quiet but driving guitar work. A, lot of people didn't know what to expect from Kottke, but they sat in amazement of the many moods he could dictate with his uri.ique Leo Kottke \The I ennessee Waltz,\ his closing number. Even people not into his brand of music had to appreciate his mastery of the guitar and how into the performance Kottke himself was. Although a genius as a musician, Kottke does not fit the generalized .description of a superstar. He looks even younger than his 27 years, .constantly flashing his boyish Midwestern grin, and is a really down-to- earth guy. He hung out on campus after the show, rapping with a lot of people and playing more good music. It was a real pleasure having 'this diversity of music at Union. Leo Kottke played not only the best bottleneck or slide guitar I've ever encmmtered, but made It has been argued to the contrary that the Trustees' financial claim is specious and not borne out by the facts; the \New Blood\ argument has also been called into question by critics of the 60% limit. The Trustees have now rescinded the 60% limit and replaced it with a procedure that Acting Provost Enteman could only describe as \Byzantine\ in Continued on Page 3 Lounge a really enlightening personal by LOUIS S. SNITKOFF statement via his 'instrument. There is a student-designed 1 Don Cooper performed the plan to transform the Fox and opening set, singing mostly his Davidson lounges into useful own material, while accompanied recreational and study areas, says by his folk guitar and bass man Lewis B. Kinter, '73, the Head Tom Reed. He started with some Resident Advisor of Fox House. pleas'ant and happy folk tunes The plan, according to Kinter, which the audience seemed to get was devised by the Fox House off on, but his music became freshmen and their Resident tedious after awhile and his voice Advisors at a general meeting was not very stimulating. during Orientation last week. Cooper's voice sounded best The project emerges as the first when he sang high, out of his demonstration of concern for the natural range, as it took on a lounges in the two men's playing style. tone very similar to that of Buzzy . He sang on only two cuts, Linhart. \From the Cradle to the Grave,\ His sound was entertaining and \Louise but his voice, enough for a first act, and he put which he claims sounds like geese the audience in a good state of farts on a muggy day, was more mi'nd, setting them up for [ 20 cents photo by l.es Kernan Beulah Sanders and Orientation Co-chairman, Ste1·e Spellman. NWRO Marches For Major Change Last Thursday an audience of 200 people in Memorial Chapel heard Beulah Sanders discuss her work as National Chairwoman of the National Welfare Rights Organization. Mrs. Sanders explained her philosophy. her goals, and the goals and purpose of the organization of which she is a major spokeswoman. The National Welfare Rights Organization \arose out of small groups of poor women who began to protest the unfair treatment\ they were receiving from local welfare agencies and the Departr;nent of Labor. Mrs. Sanders said. ''These women demanded the things that the law said they were entitled to. When nothing else worked,\ she said, \we marched. They put us in jail for praying,\ she said in reference to welfare mot.hers arrested during demonstrations. \They put' us in jail for talking.\ she continued, referring to welfare rights people \arrested · during negotiations.\ The marches and demonsvations came ahout, Mrs. Sanders explained, hecausc poor women were \tired of seeing their children die in childbirth, tired. of the young peoples' lives ruined hy dope peddlers, and tired of seeing their children die in Vietnam for a country who would not feed them.\ \President Nixon has declared war on poor people,\ she continued. \He has recommended that $1200 he the minimum income for a family of f.our. and he has recommended that mothers desert their children\ to go out and work at jo hs that are essentially \sla \ e lahar\ hecause they pay so little. Continued on Page 3 Plans Revealed 1 dormitories after three years of fr\ndalism and neglect. Kinter described the proposal as having four basic purposes. These include protecting the existing furniture against further vandalism, to provide adequate lounges in Fox and Davidson, to provide game areas in Fox and Davidson, and to provide alternative study and typing areas in Fox and Davidson while. at the same time. not inhibiting communication between the North and South wings of the dormitories. rhe plan calb for the construction of two temporary partitions extending from the corner of each mailroom to the corner of the existing partition (see sketch) in the lohhy of each of the two dorms. The partition would he designed so that it would he relatively easily removable \in case anyone decided that would he necessary,\ Kinter said. It would, he said, nevertheless he an effective physical and psychological harrier to the would-be thieves and vandals of lounge furniture. Preliminary proposals call for the inclusion of windows in the partition as well as a door which would be equipped with a lock similar to those on the front ·doors of each dorm. This lock than adequate, although he has a Kottke's onslaught. Cooper''was limited range. But, Kottke has no at his best with easygoing tunes need for vocal support because like his encore number, \Is lt his three guitars sing for him. His True What They Say About ,1icking is int~icate, and both of Hippies?\ · c:::::J could be opened with the room key of any student living in that particular dorm. The construction of these partitions, Kinter said, could be followed by the acquisition of magazine subscriptions as well as a television with a satisfactory viewing area. It would then be possible, he said, to rent a pool table or a ping pong table and even to hold dorm meetings in the .new lounge. his hands move ~ With such The evening also included a incredible speed and precision cartoon show at intermission that it was hard to be'!ieve one / something that the Sociai instrument was· making all that Committee plans as a regular sound. . . . feature. It really escapes me why ~e rehed_ mostly <;>n hts twelve- audiences always cheer Road stnng, pl~ymg classt~ai a~d. folk- Runner on while he physically t~pe mus1c, much of 1t wntten b,Y and mentally destroys the poor htmself. . Among . Kottk:e s coyote; the coyote is probably outstandmg numbers were just out to get Road Runner as a · \Vaseline Machine Gun\ and means of self-preservation. 0 0 0 Plan of the Fox House proposal for the revival of the Fox and Davidson Lounges. Continued on Page 3

2 CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, September 26, 1972 founded at Union Collqe in 1177 Editor-in-Chief ............................. George Brun Associate Editors ......................... Tim Cain Mart Swartz Managing Editors ....................... Rita Morandi Jim Rostenberg Features Editor ........................... AI Reisch Sports Editor. .............................. Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .............................. Les Kernan Jeff W eilburg Business Manager ...... , ................. Mike Hurley National Advertising ................... Mark Shulman Subscrjptions ............................... Mike Bernstein Executive Editors ........................ Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Orientation by RON 'ROCK' AINES The week is over, and C\Uother orientation period is history. Orientation at Union brings with it a pervading sense of hope and fellowship. The upperclassmen return with high expectations for the coming yeaT, after summers of varying degrees of mediocrity. They are joined on campus by an influx of new faces - some friendly, some withdrawn, and all just a little bit nervous. The sophomores, juniors, and seniors, despite their inflated hopes, know what to expect from courses and professors. College life, for them, has lost a bit of its --------------------------- mysterious novelty .. Freshmen, ahcrr ... almost The future of the Ad Hoc Committee on Race Relations is however, cannot be expected to absorb everything in the span of one week. The freshmen, perhaps by their own naivete. are in no small way reesponsible for the friendly and optimist,ic spirit that permeates the campus. now in the hands of Acting Provost Willard Enteman. The Orientation week is the most All-College Senate made no specific charge to the AHCRR enjoyable time in the school when it created the committee last spring, and in view of the· calendar. The friendliness is gravity of the subject of race relatiom and the over-riding infectious. People go out of their bl t . h. way to help others. and everyone pro em o w tte racism, pe1 haps a formal committee is not attempts to makt: as many ne~· the hest manner in which to deal with racism at Union. ac<..Juaintance!> a~ possible. 1 wish The p,oals nf such a committee should be to investigate the this sentiment could be rreserved l'Xtent of racism among Union\ white population students for the duration of the vear. and fa.cult) and to make the white population aware of its Perhaps I am a hit cynical.. hut . my three years at Union haH' n:.tctsm an attitude, action, or institutional structure \'hl'ch •• shown me that as soon as dasse~ suhordmates a person or group because of his or their color. hecome the dominant factor. the Recogninng this racism \\ ould he a major achievement; atmosphere on campm changes working to eliminate it would he a greater one. lor the worse. Schoolwork Ohv tously. this is not a well-defined problem for transcends the social aspecb of . . . the college e\perience. mvesngatwn unlike a committee to investigate a campus Competition between students center. nev .. lieldhouse. or Jewish ~tudies. To appoint a ., •••••••••••~~ comnnttce in nt~ accepted traditional fashion -- a fa:culty member !rom each division. the Administration. and \'rile Schenectady Symphony rccogniJed student groups would entagle the AHCRR in a Orchestra will begin its 39th b consecutive season with a concert ureaucrattc- mess and force the committee to produce a final on September 29: at 8:30 p.m. in (though h;1rdly definitive) report and then disband. the Linton High School But !he problems with race relations are continuing ones; Auditorium. Featured will he one official report probably would not he read by even a Symphony No.5 by S. Prokofiev. majority of the campus communi!}, let alone eliminate Tickets may he purchased in . advance at the Van Curler Music raCism. We do not take issue with the need of some organized Store, the Ticketron desk at the body to study this question. What we do believe is that an Carl Company, or at the door. official committee charged with issuing any type of report can * * * * This Friday, Sept. 29. the Union College Coffeehouse proudly presents Paul MacNeil and Dennis Burstein. The coffeehouse is back in Old Chapel, opening at 8:30 p.m. Admission is 50¢ and the ever- present coffee and donuts are as free .as ever. only he counterproductive. This is a matter for each individual's 'Conscience. After alL can you define your own racism? Editorial Policy: gsb amr Concordiensis cannot take stands on external political elections due to federal tax law. The following statement by Dr. Harold Martin explains this: \Where college newspapers occupy space rent-free, the exempt status of the college is imperilled if the newspaper ~ political endorsem~nts of any candidate or party. The newspaper may do so. however, if it pays a fair rent for space occupied and services supplied. Paid advertisements for a candidate or a party appear to be acceptable, and certainly by-lined stories about a candidate ot party are above attack except on grounds of libel or slander. But editorial espousement is explicitly prohibited unless the newspaper in effect becomes an independent organ, i.tself subject to taxes if there is a profit.\ Concordlensis ts pubhshed every Tuesday and Frida} during lhe school year except during examination and vacation periods hy the student body of Union College. Schenectady. N.Y. National advertising r~presentative. National Educational Advertising Servic~. Inc. College Puhlishers Representativ~. National Educational Advertising Senice. Inc .. N.Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym. Umon College. Publication Office. The .IC\\ish World Publications. 771 State Street. Schenectady. N.Y. 12307. 3411-2:156. Fn.ered m the Schenectad1 post office a> Second Class Mail Matter. :subscription 20 cents a copy.' a yea·r delivered anywhere in the United States Deadline for all copy. which must he t~pcd and double-spaced. is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordy office. aho\e Old Chapel. Office telephone number is 370-6155. hut the office is only in use on Monday and Thursday nights. For all edirorial matters. call the editor-in-chief at 393- 1640; for information call StUdent Activities Office at 370-6118. * * * * Petitions for candidacy as class representatives on the Steering Committee are now abailable in the Student Activities office. All petitions are due by Friday, Oct. 6. Any questions should be directed to John Dolan 250 Davidson. Orientation group leaders are requested. to pick up evaluation packets for their groups in the office of the dean of students this week. Alternate counselors may pick up their evaluation form at this time. * * * * * * * * Anyone interested in working with the coffeehouse should contact Rebecca Grant in 405 . North before this Friday's performance. Th.e phone number is 370-0414- call after 6:30p.m. * * * * Urgent meeting of prospective law school students - It is not advisable to make a decision not t<;> attend. Thurs .• 4/28/72, 4:30 p.m., SS 016. * * * * Thursday night. September 28, at 8:00 p.m. there will be a meeting of all dog owners on Union Campus. The meeting will be held in Fox lol;lnge. This will be the first gathering of the Union College Dog Club. * * * * Student volunteers needed desperately for the United Fund Drive. If you are interested please contact Mrs. R. Gleason at 374-8091. ' * * * * The McGovern · campaign needs volunteers for a campus voter registr(\tion drive. For information, call 370-1005. * * * * All Freshman civil engineers and A.S.C.E. members are invited to Professor Harlow's house on Sunday, October I, for this year's first A.S.C.E. meeting. Cars will leave from Potter Lab at I :30. · Anyone who wishes to use his pool should bring a bathing suit. Ple<!se sign up at West College or ln Butterfield Hall. repJac~s camaraderie among students. The friendliness found everywhere at Union College during orientation period dissipates m the subsequent weeks. I. hope this year will be different. The Class of 1976 seems to have acclimated itself very rapidly to its new horne, Each successive class brings with it the hope that it will be the class to alter the competitive atmosphere on campus. The upper three classes have had their chant;:es. Now the new class has its opportunity. · · I wish the Class .of 1976 the best of luck. I hope that most of you retain the good will and generosity that 1· have observed during tpe course of the past week. It is· easy to fat! into a competitive rut at Union. Fight that attitude. Compete with yo.urself, not with your roommate. Whot's Up? by WOODY GUTHERZ While ambling around the campus during this beautiful fall season of cl[!.sses, I have seen many forlorn-Jooki·ng laces, wondering \what\ going on at hig Union College?\ People are \-:alking arom1d with stone-faced frowns chipped into their faces. The sedate atmosphere . on campus is pleasant once m a while, but this is the first real week of school and there are ;,orne 525 new freshmen and 125 transfer.s who know no one but their minute orientation groups. BLITHER The first session of the Student- Faculty Bridge Club will be held on October 10 at 7:45 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. All those interested are welcome. If anyone has any question!> contact Bob Lavin in room 108 South College. * * * * This year, t.he Rathskeller will be open daily from 12 noon to I 2 midnight. The grill will close, as usual, at I I :30 p.m. All suggestions will be gratefully accepted by the management. * * * * · The administr.atioll has been trying hard to bring the students together, but the campus is remammg apathetic about anything the directors plan. On Thursday night the President's Convocation took place and the ·people who attended were fortunate enough to hear the philosophy of Beula Sanders, one of America's true freedom fighters. Prior to the speech by Ms. Sand()rs, President Martin touched on some of his long- ranging policies, but only 2 students and a rrtinis.cule number of facu1ty comprised the audience. The administration hired .a blues band for two shows o.n successive nights; a:Long with the folk talent of Bob Bernhardt on the first Tuesday night ·of schooL The school has als(] hired Leo Kottke to perform for the students. Although the administrat·ion is trying hard, the only way for the campus to revive itself is for each person to come out of his sheH and greet all the new faces around. Once eveF'Ione knows· his fellow students,· people will begin partying and the campus will become more alive aild various sundry activities will come about. This is the vear for manv changes at Union·. i.e .. the large;t freshmen class the school :has ever seen. a movie heing filmed on campus and more women than ever. so let's all get it together so the ca mr> us will be reborn with a r:iew, friendly and welcoming atmosphere. r ............... * * * * Representatives from the following Graduate Schools will be having group interviews. which are being arranged by Professor McNamara of the Economics Departme-nt. Check with Professor McNamara. Friday, Oct. 13, Stanford Umv. (MBA program) Monday, Oct. 23, Carnegie- Mellon Univ. (MBA program) Monday, Oct. 30, Harvard Univ. (MBA program) * * * * Representatives from · the There will be a meetjng for following Graduate Schools will · anyone interested in joining the be in the Placement Office. Con.cordy photo staff on Interested students should come Wednesday, Sept. 27, at 7 p.m. in in several days before. the date the West College Library. Those and sign up for interviews. on the staff are allowed unlimited Monday, Oct. 16, Babson use of the darkroom. Any College (MBA) Tuesday, Oct. questions; see Les Kernan in Chi 17, Univ. of North Carolina Psi or Jeff Weilburg in 251 (MBA) Davidson. Wednesday, Oct. 1&, Syra<:use * * * * Univ. (MBA- MS in accounting - Law boards are on October 21. PH.D. business) The deadline for applying is Monday, Oct. 23, tJniv. of September 29. Applications are Rochester (MBA MS in in the Political Science office. accounting~ Ph. D. business) * * * * Monday, Oct. 23, Rutgers There is a meeting for those Univ. (MBA) interested in spending the winter Thursday, Nov. 9, Coliu;nbia '. term in Israel on Wednesday, Univ. (MBA) September 27, in Social Science * * * * 112 at 4:30. Tickets for the Jim Dawson There will be a meeting of the and Gun Hill Road c().ncert (Oct. N a tiona! Ski Patrol in Social · 6), and the Glass Ha.rp concert Science ll5 on Thursday, . (Oct. 7). will go on sale this September 28, at 4:30. All Thursday, September 28, in the persons interested in joining the Student A.ctivities Office. Tickets patrol are invited to attend. are $2.25 for Jim Dawson and Present mei:nbers, we have a lot $1.00. for Glass Harp. to discuss to get this season Reduced price season seats are started. If there are any questions still available for $650 through see Ginny Bade in 301 North or the Dawson concert also in the Jim Heller in West College. Student Activities Office. L U_l Q.J' 5- RESY-AURANT SPECIALIZING JN Italian • A....,l~ FOOfl. 112~ BAIR.'ETT ST; Enioy Sizzlin~· Ste~ks and Chops Visit -Our Coatd\ler' · .... I : ~· ,.

is ·he by 2 .a he eo is he 'ill us ill as it be rd ill· se - in re .j q ~/i ·j:' J . ~ .. , . 'j \' ' .;. I ·' ·~ .·i) ~· ~ •:'\: ..... -'f; CONCORDJENSJS, Tue~day, .september 26, 1972 J The Way We Are Mountebanks opening their gala Golden Anniversary celebration. Mounties T·o Begin Secon,d Half•Cent,u·ry by MATTHEW SWARTZ personality and their conten- Between the frames of the tedness with the Nixon status accompanying comic strip., quo. all the time forgetting that courtesv of . Bijou Fuiinies, a each day millions of peop lc \ around the world suffer from this statement exists that may bring · t .he on-camp.us shooting of The man's greed and our blindness to it. lost somewhere are the cold Way We Were into a more realistic perspective. Then again, realities of our genocidal efforts in Indochina and the President's it may serve to confuse rather than elucidate. ln either case, the national extension of this p()licy overriding theme of violence exemplified by his past efforts to ultimately destroying the story- appoint ex-Ku Klux Klan members to the Supreme Court book plasticity the characters which. incidentallv. stands to seem to so carelessly take for - granted is, indeed, poignant. By become dominated by Nixon projecting into this theme, one c;an come upon several striking, yet timely, ana·logies. The opening convocation has come and gone virtually unnoticed when compard to the overwhelming reception given our movie-producing guests (although they prefer to reverse the\le roles and insist on calling the campus' rightful inhabitanb by SAPPHO KLEEZE \visitors\). Heralded as one of Bey, g&ng, there's a party goin' on! . . the great freedom fighters of our The Mountebanks, Union's own collectwn of dramatts personae time, Beulah Sanders spoke in a and nuts, are fifty years old this season. Theater at Union has been Memorial Chapel to an in existence for a hundred and some-odd years, since the days when emptiness that seemed to impose Nott Memorial was just a gleam in oidEliphalet's eye. but it was..,.the a remorseful lJuality into her glorious \ear 1922-23 that saw the Mountebanh emerge a~ an speech. The title given Miss organizatioR. And, let's face it, :his place hasn:t been the sam~ s.mce. Sanders ma\ hetter sene as a In recognition and celebratiOn of all. thts, the M ounttes are warning to ~s all rather than an planning a season the likes ·of which Cal Coolidge and you ha~e accurate description of her never seen. For instance: opening October 19, Kenneth Browns personal work. She is engaged in intense drama, The Bl'ig. Directed by senior Rich Mendoza. it's an a struggle to provide welfare incisive view of the men that \the Marine Corps builds.\ Barry recipients with what i~ legally Smith and Charlie Steckler, Union's drama department and theirs. The reul ugline~~ of thi~ resident visionaries, trip back into Eliphalefs hou~e on Noven:b~r situation becomes clear when 14 with their week-long production of J .. B., Archibald Macletsh s certain people. comfortable in magnificent examination of the story of Job. their \film fun\ existence. Coming in winter and spring are The Pirates of Pe~zance, .neat~ manage to complain about thi~. of a Salesman, Curlew River, the inside-out Marowttz verswn ol clearly iniquitous law\ Hamlet, Harry Tipton's original play The Murderers, ~mpteen impos 1 tton on them. The student productions, and who knows, maybe a Peloponnesian War ·. implications of tram~ four or two. In addition, an embryonic troupe of students formed :a~t becoming clear. wring under the collective denotation of \Children's Theater' IS This sa111e egocentricity seems interested in carrying their wares to the local :Iementary schoo_ls. to dominate the atmosphere for And, in the planning stages., .a brand-ne\\ expenmental theater, ,for the upcoming election. In the smaller and more varied theater-pieces. . balance are people's personal Interested in any or all of these? The party starts thts Wednesday objections about McGovern's night. September 27. Freshmen, and people who have never before· been involved with Mountebanks. are invited ~o come to Nott Memorial at 7:30 for an introductory meeting. At 8:00, there will_ be a general meeting for everyone, old .,,~d new. \Come along and smg our song and join the jamboree ... \ Happy birthday, dear Mounties, happy bii'thday to you! Tenure ... Ms. Sanders Continued from Page 1 Presently, the NWRO is apP.ointees for the next generation and a half. The little man with the pointed hair-do and million dollar smile must be the ghost of electiom past. He is the \ iolence we choose to ignore in the midst of troubled but historically pivotal times. He is the blood-spilling name the United States ha~ made for itself both home and a broad which. whether you care to reali1e or not. you an: responsible for. Continued from Page 1 A memorial plaque commemorating Union's late business manager Theodore R. Mcllwaine was stolen last week from the entrance-way in the Maintenance Building. Physical Plant Director Robert Welch has expressed the deep distress felt by all the maintenance workers who contributed to the fund to purchase the plaque. T,hey would like the plaque returned as soon as possible. working on a \do-it-yourself program.\ Mrs. Sanders said, and \we will be doing ev~rything in our power to see that every man, woman, and child get their fair share of the nation's wealth. We're going to have to storm some welfare centers and break down some doors to do it,\ she said. \If there is going to be a major change, there's going to have to be a lot of doors broken down. It is not going to be done by going to classes.\ MacNeil and Burstein its complexity and scope. The new procedure includes just about every Administrator, faculty member, .and committee member of any official standing in the College. The architects of this new procedure took great pains to insure that everyone concerned would feel as ·if they had a voice in the final tenure decisions. This new procedure does represent a change, but Enteman does not feel that the change is all that profound; \Nobody that I know of has changed his mind .(on the 60% tenure limit).\ \The saddest part of the whole thing,\ Enteman said, \is that some faculty members were brought here under one set of expectations,\ and did not underst~nd what the tenure situation really is at Union College. Apparently the new professors were not told, or were not made fully aware, or just did not understand that they might be denied tenure, no matter how well-qualified they we're, because of certain limitations. The controversy, debate, and ill- feelings probably could have been avoided if prospective faculty members und~rstood exactly what their chances- were of obtaining tenure. .................. There will be the first lntroducto~y . · Lecture in Transcendental Meditation on Tuesday; Sept. 26; at 8 p.m. in Social Science 016. Mr. Mcllwaine died in 1970 after many years of service to · Union. Wishing to express their feelings for him, the maintenance . workers pur\ chased the memorial plaque and invited Mrs. Mcllwaine to its unveiling. Lounge Enclosing \I have three kids,\ Mrs. Sanders said, \including a fifteen year oid son. My son is not going to fight for this country.\ A fifteen-minute question period followed her speech. When someone in the audience objected to money being taken out of his paycheck to support people who won't work, Mrs. Sanders said simply, \That's a lie.\ She told the audience to be more concerned about money taken out of their paychecks to support Continued f'rol!l Page 1 the war in Vietnam. When a question was raised about The importance of this welfare fraud. Mrs. Sanders proposal takes on added. answered that it wasn't really significance with the advent of significant when compared to the the five-man suites irt Fox and fraud and manipulation of the Davidson. The crowded living tax structure that passes conditions make late-night unnoticed. studying, typing, and talking imvossible and the absence of lounges adds to an already difficult living situation. The estimated cost, says Kinter, is minimal when compared with the college's initial investment in lounge furniture as well as with the benefit the residents of these dorms could derive from the implementation of such a plan. * * * * Friday·, Oct. 6, U.S. Marine Corps. Wednesday, Oct. 11, lJ .S. Navy Wednesday, Nov. 8, U.S. Coast Guard Thursday, Nov. 9, U.S. toast Guard Representatives from the above branche~ of service will be in the Placement Office to talk to interested students. In Friday Coffeehouse This friday night the Union College Coffeehouse hegins its year with the return of Haston folksinger and songwriter. Paul MacNeil. The performance, which starts at 8:30 p.m. in the Old Chapel, also features Union sophomore, Dennis Burstein. Upperclassmen who saw MacNeil perform last year will remember him for his excellent guitar work and versatility. Playing to a full house last winter, Paul performed every- thing from foot-stomping country music to blues. Cambridge has been his home for ten years, and the people and places in the city influence his moods and style, resulting in a uniquely personal. hut not private, expression through music. Waiting out a thunderstorm in Harvard Square, singing for the joy of it, playing Frisbee on the Common - all become a part of Paul's songs, and, in turn. they become a part of the many other musicians who perform them. These other musicians include Bob McCarthy, Jaime Brockett, Nancy Michaels, and - most recently - Roberta Flack. Paul also sings the songs of his friends and fellow performers, giving them an expert, and often new, interpretation. \Louise\ becomes more real than ever; a listener feels that Paul must have known her. Yet he can follow that same song with \I Am a Child,\ and there seems to he no conflict in the idea that the same man who cried for Louise could rejoice in still being a child. For Paul is a child he is open, he is honest. and he is fun. And he performs with all his heart. So join us Friday night in Old Chapel and see why Circus magazine has hailed Paul MacNeil as \Undoubtedly one of the finest folk performers to come out of Boston in the last ten years~··-·The doors ope~ ~~t 8:30, admission is only 50~, and the world-renowned coffee and donuts are free. Jean's East Shop for the Newest and Latest in Styles Carl's Main Floor

4 Tuesday, September 26, 1972 w·alters To Pakistan To Teach Basketball by BRUCE BATCHE.LDER Union College basketball coach Gary Walters has officia!Iy confirmed rumors that he might be going abroad to teach basketball. During an interview on September 25, he stated that he had been asked by the State Department to go to Pakistan for the purpose of conducting clinics for players and coaches in an effort to improve the Pakistani International basketball team. Walters accepted the job with the stipulation that it must not interfere with his coaching duties at Union. The very latest that Walters could leave would be the end of this week or the very beginning of next week. The trip would he for thr-ee or four weeks, but Walters said that if going to Pakistan entailed returning after October 25, he would have to decline the offer. Westbrook Leads Gridders Over WPI Pakistan has recently embarked upon a sports improvement program. with basketball being one of the four sports that the Pakistanis want to improve. Walters wiH bring no players from the States. but he will he assisted by Head Coach Herb Brow of C.W. Post College on Long Island. The trip was originally scheduled for August, hut for some reason the deal fell through. Walters has been in· contact with the Pakistani Consul-General at the U.N. but final woud about the trip has not yet been received. Walters is a graduate of Princeton, where he was a Little All- American. In the last two years at the helm of the Union basketball team. he has compiled a 37-6 record and he has even appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated, but being asked to go abroad to teach haskethall must he the highest compliment that could be paid to the man who put Union basketball on the map. by MARK MINDEL Using three quarterbacks, Union College r0mped to an easy 14-0 victory over Worcester Poly· Saturday on Alexander Field. Starting quarterback Gary Lauver from Guilderland marched Union well during the first two quarters before injuring his ankle in the closing two minutes of the half. The score did not really indicate h.ow well Union's grinding, time-consuming offense and quick defense dominated the game. The Garnet were inside the WPI 20 yard line five times, but capitalized only twice. Union established its ''Ruggers\ Anticipate Fine Fall Season superiority the first time it had the ball, marching 68 yards in 12 plays and eating up almost seven minutes on the clock. The Dutchmen pushed their way to the Worcester 12 via three running first downs and a Lauver- to-Geoff Walker strike. On a fourth-and-two situation from the 12, Coach Everling decided to test Bob Mitchell's toe, evidently remembering the Ron Westbrook dives over for the first Garnet score· against WP/, climaxing a 46-yard drive led by quarterback Gary Lauver. Ron also carried in Union's other TD. Hamilton game last year when a play from scrimmage, Speedy field goal would have meant Westbrook raced around right victory. Mitchell, however, went end for a 15 yard touchdown. wide left Lila 32-yard attempt. Mitchell converted to close the Lauver directed Union's first scoring. b . MITC'H · d BlJ\\'·· before is organization and sptnt.. D R · 1 h Y ' an r r score, a 46-yard TO drive ave · eanc a so got a c ange Jono Walker has done a fantastic 1 d h G k Fall is a perennial institution climaxed by Ron Westbrook's to ea t e arnet attac late in job of getting the team together th r rth t d 1 h h and in endless repitition it seems two-yard plunge with 5:01 .. e ~~u · quar er, an at oug to stiuate itself in the middle of and getting games scheduled. The remaining in the half. The drive he ~td n?t move t~e squad flaming !~aves and foot hall spirit, to use a much maligned was set up by the tough defense I ~ffective_ly, It must be said he, was mania. A lesser known. hut expression, is outta sight! which forced Worcester to punt 1 m With mostly back-up Everybody on the team is full of f equally !laming sign of fall is from inside its 10 to Westbrook per ormers. THE RUGGER. Not to be enthusiasm and looking forward who returned it five ·yar-ds to th~ Ronn_ie Westbrook headed. the to the season. h 179 1 d d mistaken for rapist or mugger. 46. The eventual winning drive stats. Wit .. tota yar s gai!le the ruggers have ot:ficial approval The schedule is· as follows: featured first down scamps by ~ushm~, receivmg, and returm~g, for their violent actions. October 7 · Alpany Medical Bruce Mathias and Rick mcludmg 107 yard~ on 20 carnes The Rugby C'lub has not hcen away; October 14 • Wesleyan, Jaszczak plus a clutch fourth for an aver~ge of 5.4 yards per too successful in recent years, hut home; October 21 • Colgate, down keeper by Lauver off the carry. Ronme almost broke a f~w that should drastically change home; November II· triple option. Mitchell added the l~ose all the way, but n~ver ~uite this fall. With returning veterans Tournament. away (Colgate) and extra point to make it 7-0. slipped away for the b1.g gamer. Jono Walker at serum half, Mike November 18; Schenectady R.C., With Lauver sidelined Mitchell About all \\estbrook d1d wrong Sciacca at wing, John Van home. Anybody interested in started the second half. After an was miss on a halfback pass off Benschoten at fullhack. Bruce playing rugby should come out interception on his first series, the option. \Buffalo\ Batchelder m the to practice. which is held on Mitchell settled down and Mitchell led the passers, second row. and Joe Kaknes. Library Field or in front of West directed the potent running completing five out ~f seven for formerly of the Schenectady College at 3 : 45 p.m. on Monday, attack well, while also mixing in 45 _yards, a 71% ratio .. Overall, R.C.. at 11y. the team has plenty Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday a stronger air game. Mitchell Umon totalled 318 yards to 171 of each week. or contact Jono · for Worceste th WPI t t I of experience. Other veterans directed three drives with the · r, e o a Walker at 372-9759. ' · I d. 45 d 1 who figure prominently in the third one bringing Union its final me u mg a -yar pass Pay Post script: The college th t d d th h If ~. ld plans are Skip Singer and Mitch touchdown of the day. a en e · e a , ..... ut wo~ . Luhart. There has also been a infirmary has instituted a new The first two marches took up have been called back had Umon large turnout of rookies who policy that allows only five fifteen minutes in 27 plays but accepted a penalty. have looked good in practice. people at a time 10 visit patients. neither resulted in a score. The serum. which has been the While this. is not particularly Mitchell attempted a 29-yard Jay Billiards Lounge weak spot of past clubs. is a lot pertinent to football jocks and field goal in the closing moments PLAY POOL_ RELAX·· larger and should pose more other non-contact athletes, it of the third quarter which the resistance than before. Another may be of some import to referee signaled wide. Mitchell item which is essential to a good potential ruggers. See you all out claims it split the right side of the there! team and has been sadly lacking goal posts. a---------..,.-- .. ~,_.._..,.,..._ __ ..,.. ___ ,_.....,. The second drive stalled when Daily 10·9 p.m. Sat. 10·9 p.m. Sun. 2 p.m.·8 p.m. Defensively, Charlie Weekes (8 tackles, 5 unassisted, and 2 sacks), Tom Anacker, (11 and 4), Bill Spelman (l 0 and 5), and Don Rupsis led the line while Dave Ricks and Mike Raab along with Jerry Cuffey, looked' excellent in the .backfield. ' The only complaint Everling had for the game was the amount of turnovers (two in the air and two on the ground) and the five total fumbles. Next Saturday Union travels to Canton, N,Y. for a game against St. Lawrence. The always- tough Larries, who feature both- Way man Gale Knull from Schenectady, lost to Colby last Saturday, and should have revenge on their minds after last year's 24-17 Garnet victory. Union has won two years in a row, and leads the soon-to-be- ended rivalry 15-13-5. ·DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT & WEDDIN(; RINGS 3,000 ring selections in all styles at 50% discount to students, staff, and faculty. Buy direct from leading manufacturer and SAVE! 1 h ~!lntl $179, ~ carat only $299. For free color folder write: Box 42, Fanwood, N.J. 07023 Mathias, who was carrying the A d I -· RESEARCH MATERIALS Maurice 8. ball in his \wrong\ hand because . r· c C·· .e· ·E e c. tron ·l.··cs All TopiCS of an injured wrist, fumbled on . G ba t & So ns· the four yard line. Ironically. Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, rau r Mathias had kept the drive going INTRODUCTORY OFFERS 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 · h quality research papers. Enclose with a fine diving catch of a Sony. Sym.p· on·I·C $1.00 to cover postage and handling. For three Mitchell toss on a key fourth down play. FM p S RESEARCH UNLIMITED Generations On the ensuing series safety · · reset tereo Stereo Record Player 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 · , Mike Raab intercepted an errant Tuner Amplifier LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 166 J St For Honest Servic ' toss and returned it twenty yards I $ a· 2. s· o· $ 65 00 (213) 477-8474 • 477~5493 ~~~a~y~~· A~. ~nd~G~o::!o~d ~Je~w~e~lry~~to-th_e_w_o_rc_e-st-er_. _Is_._o_n_· _th_e_f-ir-~-.t . s 9 R 9 e_g 9 . 5 . .. . • . .•. . ·. ls~~~7 \We need a local salesman\ 1 ~~~~~~~~~ FOR LIQUOR & WINE ·r 1 REGISTER FOR THE N • h I ' · Factory warranty service SONY CLOCK RADIO lc. 0 aus Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S onsony,symphonic&other .------• name brands. Restaurant 464 State Street Fast and Reliable· r--------------- Corner Erie Blvd. FR 4-1818 Repair on All .1 ---------------· & State St. Makes and Models I NAME- PLEASE PRINT FINE w * * *. \' . TV's, HiFi's, Radios. 1 1 anted: Tntors m all sub•ects. GERMAN BEER Register with Mrs. Reid ;oom ALSO LOCATEDAT I ADDRESS--------- AND FOOD Dave's. Mens Shop 22,Geology Building. Above Old 804 ALBANY ST. ·'I 453 State St. Chapel. , 1 Serving Union Colle_ge (downtown Schenectady) • • * • CALL. 370-3680 ! PHONE----------· . ' ; i l ~

by TD. (8 2 4), and Nhile and five oth- last last n a -be- all to % ¥ p • .. ' l I f ....• - Vol. lOi, No. 3 founded at Union College in 1877 \ - . . - . - . - Friday, September 29, 1972 20 cents Five Whites Appointed· To Study Race Relations by GEORGE <BAIN and suggest ways to mediate the • Acting Provost Willard F. conflicts and resolve the tensions. Enteman has appointed an Ad \2. Seek ways to bring a bout a Hoc Committee on Race greater sense of community Relations consisting of five among various groups and members of Union's white pertJns on the campys. community and instructed it to \3. Seek ways to improve the deal with \a history of white flow of minority persons into the . racism\ and \the problems College at all levels.\ caused ~y the attitudes of white A report (though not peoJ)le.'' necessarily a final one) with 'the Committee members specific recommendations will pe include Antonio John Faga, submitted to Dr. Enteman by ·Mary Ann Kingham, Dean Tuesday, January 9., 1973. Edward J .. Malloy, Jr., Professor In announcing the Committee, Peter Tobiessen, ahd Professor Dr. Enteman released his reasons . James .. .Underwood; it will for constructing it as he did, appoint its own chairman if it so \The Committee is small <md ·desires. white. I have made the initial Dr. E!!teman charged the appointments in that manner for Committee to.: a set ofinterrelated reasons. It is understand the intent of the College Senate correcrly. the Committee is charged with addressing itself to problems caused by attitudes of wltite people. If the Committee wislies to expand and;or to .include non- whites, I shall applaud their decision, and I shall be glad tq ma·ke the appoinrments. However. I think the initiative for such a move should come from the Committee tnem bership itself after due and serious consideration. It snould come only after the members of the Com.mittee feel ready to have it expand. ''I. Seek out those areas . of my own opinion that committees tacia:I conflict ex.isting on the accomplish useful objectives in Union campus; discover the inverse proportion to their size. I ·-- ., .. ,~~- · causes of the cortflict; explore do think the Committee might be D • R f A d somewhat larger (possibly even \While the Committee is snwll. it should be noted that specific recommendations nrc requiFcd. I have not filled the Committee with administrators and others who will have to considt·r the feasibility of any specific recommendations because it is my opinion that any CommitlL't' should feel free to call on administrators for advice as it considers specific recommen- dations. Members o f .•.. emoc·ra:tlc . e orms . n· . ~~ic:u~~!~o~:tn~~~:~!r~n~ st~~ ·h · · · · . Committee is to grow, l· want it r e Op .. e·n Co.nv. ·ention ~~s1~e=~;~h~~~~tb~~s~~~.genuine \The underlying problems byNElL KANE the administration stand ready to lend whatever help they can. The convention ip Chicago .. in- , 1968 mad'e it painfl.tlly obvious that the Democratic Party had to be reformed so all of its members who wanted to participate in patty decisions' could do so. The resulting t:et'orms were designed to achieve two objectives. percentage of. tbeir delegate str~ngth was undertaken ih otder which the Cor:nmittee · will be strength ... reduc.~q. ... This.. i..s-~:_ms~re_t~t t_he d_ele~at~~- w'!_o Jon;:~<f_to .. d.ef!l~_wi~h:are ~a.ul;)ed}.Y patticulady true of Southern ,repr~sent. tlie actual _Democratic a htst~ry o~ white ractsm. 1 ~ts states which usually controlled P~estdenttal voters Wl!l be bet!er Com~I~tee IS not charged w~th about 40% of the delegates at the a~le _:o_:c~oose a candidate which submtttmg a report to . sp~c~fy \I have_a::;kcd Dean MaUoy to ·convene the 11rst· meeting of the Committee merely because he has the administrative help at harid to do so most easily. The first allowed those gr.oups of Democnits which have been traditionally excluded - from participating in party decisions the opportunity to have some voice in them. ihese groups included women, minority groups (Blacks, Spanish-speaking Amedcans an d American In- dians) · and · young people (defined as thirty years of age and under). The reform guidelines, which were not quotas, cill1ed for the number of delegates from these groups to reasonably reflect their proportion of the population in their state, and they stressed the idea that all Democrats must be able to participate in the delegate selection process. The reforms insured that these gtoups would really be able to participate and not simply be some kind of window dressing to impress . television viewers by . chanting pre-planned slogans from the galleries. This tneant that they would be participating at the convention as delegates and alternates on. an equal basis with the groups fmm which delegates are traditionally chosen, such as \party regtJiars\ and labor union members. convention and which have Mt wllt appeaho-those.Yoters. what blacks or other mmont1es supported the Democratic Continued on Page 2 should or should not do. If I candidate very often irt the past. u·· . . H t M t l . tw~~~~::r~£ the reforms which · n10n . · · OS S · e rora1r were brought about by the by ANDY RICHMAN be sponsored, including an the future it will grow in its McGovern-Fraser Commission, Metrofair '72, the first .annual election to pick \Mr. and Mrs. in,portancc. the .1972 Democratic convention local government exposition, Schenectady.\ Mr. Schenectady • Food, and variou:; services was much· more tepresentati:ve of f represents that man who ·s 1 the such as day care centers an. opened September 28 or three the American seciety than any days on Union's campus. composite of the voting available for those w~o attend other convention has been. the Metrofair • 72 , the joint preferences of Schenectady men, Metrofair '72. 25,0(}0 people are percentage of Women delegates brainchild of Charles K. Bens, and Mrs. Schenectady 1 that expected to attend ihe J-day was up from 13% in 1968 (which executive - director of the. woman who represents the exposition. was a record) to about 40%, and Schenectady Municipal Research composite opmwn of Saturday, Sept . .30, 9 a.m.-IIJ p.m. the percentages . of minority Bureau,\ and Prof.essor William Schenectady women. Morning groups and young people very BeVier of Union College's urban Other forms of entertainment 10:00 Film Festhal closely reflected their percentages studies department, is believed to are music by local groups young 11 :()0 The Ne'\ (leneration in the general population of the be the first such local and old, dancing, high school 11:30 Order of the Arrow United States. About 85% of the government~oriented .exposition bands, quiz shows, movies, skits Afternoon delegates has never before in the nation.. and games. · 12:00 Lisa Szabaga, Accordion attended a convention. and The idea of Metrofair , 72 Union Coliege President 12:15 The New Generation almost 67% of the delegates were stems from the traditional county Harold C. Martin delivered a 1:00 Film Festival chosen in primaries. fairs of rural areas, where the welcoming speech Wednesday 5:30 Metrobowl Fir.als (Video- The remaining delegates were problems -of rural life are afternoon. On Thursday night taped) chosen in state . canvention discussed as well as their possible Indianapolis Mayor Richard G. 6:00 Jack Ferrara Dancets systems V.:hich were much more solutions. Metrofair '72 will in a Lugar, the .Keynote speaker at 6;30 Sing Out Schenectady demacratic this year than they similar way deal with the the Republican convention, \a 7:00 Film Festival have ever been. I was a member problems of urban Jiving. 102 surrogate spokesman\ for 7:15 Miss Metrofair B~oJauty of a . .slate of delegates pledged to booths, many of them sponsored President Nixon, vice chairman Pageant Senator McGQvern which won a by local, county, regional and of the Advisory Commission and 8;00 Merritt Dancers . primary election in the 29th state governmental agencie&, ate IntePgovernmental Relations and 8:15 The New (;eneration Congressional District of New b~irtg manped during the· three- past president of the National 8:45 Merritt Dancers York. day venture. At these bP.oths, League of Cities, spoke about the 9:00 Duanesburg H.S. t'hoir The reforms made certain that Metroland citizens have a chance President's programs concerning 9:30 Duanesburg H.S. Band the delegates were allocated to to talk to their government urban areas. Saturday Seminar the states according to the officials and register their . Harold Passer, Assistant Session V - 9:30 A.M. Democratic Pre$idential vote in opinions on contemporary, local Secretary of Commerct; History, Nott Memorial 1968, thus reflecting a more issues. Also participating in appointed by th'! President in Metropollution - Probl-:rr.s of realistic view of the Democratic Metrofair , 72 ate various 1969, will address the fair 6:30 the Regional Environment, Party's Presidential strehgth in industries, Who are exhibiting P.M. Friday night. Butterfield Hall, Rm. 204 each state. The South's stFength, some of their technological Saturday night at 8:00 P.M. a Tr-ouble in River City - The therefore, was reduced from 1 · h bl f leading Democrat is scheduled to Mont Pleasant Incidents, Social about 4o mo to about .27mo o·f t,he so utiOns to t e pro ems o S . Bl.d R l 7 t n urban life. address the fair concerning the ' qences g., m. 0 6 total delegate vote, and the large Various seminars are featuring Democratic programs for the The Economic Health of industrial states which .presentations, discussions, and cities. Among those mentioned as Schenectady and How It traditionally Vote Democratically debates by professionals on such this Democratic spokesman are Changes, Hale House, Alumni received the largest number of topics as \Regional Planning and New York City Mayor John V. Lounge delegate votes. u b D 1 \ ••ta · Lindsay, Congresswoman Bella Session VI~ 1~30 P.M~: New York and Cali~orn. ia had r an eve opment, w m H T H A C · an Urban Society- Women and Abzug, New York City ow · o ouse olllmumty, The second objective increased the influence at the convention of those states which vote Democratically in Presidential elections. A formula was devised which allocated delegate votes to all states based upon their electoral votes. Additional delegate votes were then awarded to the states based upon the number of votes cast in each state for the 1968 Democratic candidate, Hubert Humphrey. the most delegates, casting 278 fhe Law,\ and \Citizen Commissioner of Consumer Butterfield Hall, Rm. 204 and 271 votes respectively. (New Participation Fact or Fiction.'' Affairs .ae.s Myerson, BostC>n Law In An Urban Society ..... York, despite having a smaller In order to interest and attract Mayor Kevi'l White, or some Women and tbe Law. Nott States which traditionally hold power at the convention and then vote for another candidate in the general election found the 1 population than California, cast the fairgoers, contests for all age other well known Democrat. Memorial more .Democratic votes in the h d 1 . · h 1 1 It is generally felt that .if this Summit House A 1968 Pre . s·t'dentt·a· I el.ectl'on·,) Tht's groups - eac ea lhg Wit oca Ph·l h d. A A h. government or urban life - will year's Metrofair is a success. in . • osop Y an · n pproac to redistribution of delegate Social Change, Hale House

2 CONCORD/EN SIS, Friday, September 29, /972 CONCORDIENSJS f~nded at Union College inl877 Editor-in-Chief .. , ......................... George Bain Associate Editors ......................... Tim Cain Matt Swartz Managing Editors ........................ Rita Morandi Jim Rostenberg Features Editor ........................... AI Reisch Sports Editor. .............................. Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors., ............................ Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ........................ Mike Hurley National Advertising ................... Mark Shulman Subscriptions ............................... Mike Bernstein Executive Editors ........................ Peter Dickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Phyllis R. Edelman (iail Goodman CONCORl>Y STAiiF Rohert Shugoll Judy Dein Pat Bohen Mar.k Mindel Hill West Dave Strom Ron Aincs Woody 'Lauer Phil Alcahes John Polydourih Mitch Lubart Steven Krakauer Marty Sh.erman Woody Guthcr1 Ahcrr ... Reali~y The appointment of the Ad hoc Committee on Racism requires further comment. First: It is important to realize that this committee is now a reality and, if it is to succeed. must be taken seriously by members of the college community. Second: All groups on campus must cooperate with the committee 'l:,'i they attempt to provide answers to a problem that is not only loosely defined, but highly emotional. This committee cannot effectively operate in a vaccuum, and it is up to all of us to sec that this vaccuum does not exist. Third and perhaps rn0st important: It should be remembered that this committee is not styled after Joseph McCarthy. It is not charged with placing blame on individuals, but with analyzing individual and group actions. This will not be a witch hunt iFl any sense of the word. Finally: We hope . thar the committee will be run ·on democratic principles with regard for the highest meaning of the term. All a-venues of discourse whould be utiliz~d and all opinions heard. At the same time we· realize that the committee is, as all committees of this type are, hemmed in hy rigid time limitations. This is a truly monumental task and we wish the committee much insight and would like to openlY offer our assistance in any way possible. amr De~troying Davidson Any resemblance between the .. fictional events depicted here and reality is theoretically coincidental. 1l1e fdloll'ing may n:flect the writings c~f' .wme .fitture chronider c?f' Union College histor,r: .. 171e earlr JC) 70's htouglu renewed hard ti111es to the College. While many l{ the /Jest young pY<~lessors \\'ere forced to lem·e because l!t' a numerical tenure limitation, the College's oll'/1 physiml plafll started to decline predpitous~r. \The compararh·e(r new dormitories 1wre m·erloaded lt'ith people. in accordance 1rith the com·emionaf administrative wisdom that more students meant more money. The po.\·sihility that prospectiw swdems might sh_r .fi'om this liheral-arts version c?f' slum lh·ing IWI.I' .ftpfJal'eltlly not taken into consideration 77w.ve 1r/w compfai11ed l?l the living cunditiom tt·ere told tlwt. l~/ter all. the administration had made only a fil'e percent error in calculating admissions, reallr twtMng <'OIIlfJtlred to other College mistakes. \Then. as if' timed to coindde with the prescribed co=iness, things literal~r stoppeli u·orking. Drains/ailed. causing leaks ll'hich grew into lakes. · Whereas in previous winters pipes had .fi\o=en. 11011' they stopped 11·orkillg entirely. The College's ahility to find architel'tural engineers ld. demonstrah(r small skills was holdingj!rm. \The details (~j' physi£'al di.\·imegration ll'ere too unpleasant to detail here, hw one final commem must be fwted. A harried College (~!/ida/. perhaps paraphrasing an c41ker tm·oh•ed in the Vietnm1/ ad\'elllure of' rhat era, said: '\We may have to destroy Dm•idson in order to sa\'e it.'\ p·b --'l;-· lr' I •• ' Concordiensis ~~ puhltshcd C\Cr~ Tucsda~ and Frida~ during the school ~~nr except during examination and 1acntion pcrit\ds h~ tile• student ·hod:- <If t:nion College. Schcncct<tdy. N. \'. National ad1cl'tising rcprcsmtatiw. \;ationnl Educationnl Ad1crtising Scr\ icc. Inc. Colk•gt• f'Lihlishc·rs Rcprcs,•ntatilc. National Educational Advertising Sen icc. In!.' .. :'\.Y.C Editol'ial Office. Old Gym. Union College. Puhlicati<m Office. The· .fc11 ish World Puhlirati,ms. 771 State Street. Schcncctadr. KY. 12307. 34b-2356. Ent<·rcd 111 the Schcncctad) post office ns Second Ci;tss Mail Mattcr.Suhscriptinn 20ccms a cnp~.$H a }<'ill' delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadiine for all copy. which must .he t:> pcd nnd douhk•spuccd. is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursdny at the C'oncordy offic~. a bo~t''Oid Clmpcl. Office telephone number is 370·6155. hut the• office is on!~ in usc· on M <\itd:1~ and Thursday nights. For :til editorial mutters. call the cditur-1n-chicl :tt 39J. 1640; for information call Student Actil·itics Offil't• at 370-fd IR. OPINION . . . ~ specuiate, ·but it wiii swing, The underlying social by WILLARD F • ENTEMAN and technological currents in the nation are such The editors of _ Concordiensis have kindly that it cannot long stand a population which in consented to allow me to use sorne space large measure cannot 0 provide the advantages which periodically to express personal opJnions in an result from increased education. Where, then, does attempt to help us think about ·the appropriate that leave us now? The greatest temptation would shape of the future of Union. I should make it dear be to take down·out sails, batten down the hatches, that I speak as another member of the community, and ride out the storm. We could do so; 4ioJ do not that 1 invite criticism, disagreement and debate, and doubt it; and Union would almost surely survive. that what I say does not- imply decisions already However, it seems to me there is another possibility. made. To follow my nautkarimage, we can trim our sails, A word about my .perce,ption of Union as we lo,ok tighten our ship, and set a true course. I am. to the future may be appropriate here. Union, ana convinced that we cari do so, and I am convinced colleges like Union, were at one time the that if we do so, we shall be in an excellent position. educational leaders of the nation. They set the .pace, to re-establish our history of leadership. the style and the tone of higher education for the What is that true course? What is it Jor the short nation. in many respects, that form ·of leadership run and the long run? How should we proceed now has been lost, and nothing substantial has come to so that we retain (and even increase) our strength replace it. Unless we are to identify leadership with while we prepare for the next stage? What We do mere bulk or bureaucratic power, there is no real nowwillhavemarked and dramatic impact upon the · leadership today. future. What we must do, 1 am convinced, is to lift I hope I do not need to repeat comments about our eyes from the present irritants caused by being the financial problems all collem:s and universities thrown into a situation in which we must live fact at present. At Union, we have had a deficit cl'osely together. We must look to the future in a budget every year for the past seven years. There is bold, imaginative, and realistic way. I want to try no need to apologize for those deficits. They were that jol;) in ·these periodic columns. 1 want to invite planned, and they brought us to our present those of the Community who wish to do so to join position which, l think, is one full of hope f01: the me. We spend too much time working within our f.uture. own narrowly and selfishly defined lives. But our fina-ncia'l concerns are serious. The In future .columns I shall try to speculate about Trustees (rightfully, I think) have ,charged us to some possibilities and some hopes. We live, bring the budget~ :ifito. :baJanee. That has already obviou$1y; in ·~ world of scarce resomces. Not all been started, and we ·shall continue. It is foolish to those possibilities can be enacted. From many depend upon outside sources for funds. Of course, quarters, we must strive to install in the College a we could use them; and we could use them in very sense of direction and a sense of purpose. Without productive ways. Yet we cannot allow ourselves to that, the petty a~d selfish .problems of daily life depend upon fhem. The vagaries of charitable .become overwhelming. With that, we can endure giving and the· ficls:leness of' government programs . many petty annoyances because we are committed provide a too insecure base upon which we might to a larger task. ·No one possesses omniscience construct our future. about the future,_ yet What we do now presupposes I am convinced the financial pendulum will swing some judgments about the future. It is important back. l do not know when. and I hesitate to that we all look- to that futute. . For Thre,e Bucks a Copy by Mcrty Sherman \Schenectady is an old Indian word that means place where the glacier stopped to excrete.\ W.O. 1970 '11 .. f. Now thai. the term has begun, and many of us have realized that the su~mer-!.ong p,rQmises to become diligent stu.dents . are . not to be realized until January, the question of what to do to pass the time has grown increasingly important. As a last resort the back of the Freshman Record is the place where almost all freshmen and many upper.., da~s people look to find that certain place to eat. that Is not Ferro's or Lum Fung's, that place to visit when in Sl).ratoga or, God forbid, Troy. ln searching through the bind quarter of this year's recorp several activities of note have inadvertently been omitted. This situation shall now be rectified in full. Within the college there are several activities worth mentioning: I . The Society for the Stqdy of Irrelevant Facts or IF... As . the group. pref~rs to be known. These,..people indulge in idle and futile speculation on a wide variety of topics. Last year saw this group discuss issu¢s ranging from the effect on the toy inarket if yo-yo's only went down· and not up, to the m~aning of the scientifically observed correlation of the world's production of artichokes to the population of Buloxie. This group welcomes any Union student. faculty member or administrator with a voice box that is operant. 11. The Union College Welcome Wagon - This group has rece1itly purchas~d a wagon · that carries you from place to place on Union's campus but never lets you stay anywhere long enough to know where you are. Many freshmen in Fox and Davidson inadvertently, go on this wagop when they came to Uniort m1d are expected to be riding on it until June. This organization receives large sums of money from the administration. . .. ~ ' HI. The Society for Inter· Galactic Communication - This is a group of people of all eolors (Red, White, Black, Blue, Green), creeds and ,planets who gather regularly to discuss the vital issues of the light year. This group· is not sponsored by the college. IV. We Can Read The Writing on The Wall - This is an organization that mee~~ regularly in the Rathskellar to. read the words of the prophets, This group also delights in drinking water o.r almost anything. When not actually engaged in their primary past-time they . are hoping to do well playing pinball. When ··venturing out into Schenectady there are two establishments that should not be . ignored: The Scnimectoga Toga - A novelty shopspeciali.zing inall forms of orgy apparel, plastic Tickets for the Jim Dawson and Gun Hill Road concert (friday, October 6) and the Glass Harp concert (October 7) are now on sale in the Student Activities Office. Pric~s. for Union students, are· $2.25 for Jim Dawson and · $1 ,oo for Glass Harp. Reduced price season seats are sti:ll available for $6.50. Billboard reviewed Dawson at the Bitter End saying: \An act that would astound the audience and not be easily· forgotten was Jim Dawson, another Kama Sutra artist and a completely beautiful man. Dawson's gentle and moving songs are all about love, and the scope and depth of it. His singing is an invitation to join in the feeling and the giving; there is no way to say no. He does nothing to control his listeners. yet they are with hi.m, sharing his . music and his vision before the first song is over. The powerful experience of being ·together comes from nowwhere. from one voice .and one guitar. There is ma~lc in that.\ fTuit and c..1rious devices. The Hungry Earlobe - The only place to· relax when your boot heels are tir.ed ;of W.~,tnderi;o:g:. ' Come in and hear local folk- singers talk about \getting oUt on the r.oad again\ 7and · \goin~ home\. A must for all freshme\n. One service in Schenectady was not mentioned in the 1976 Freshman Record. The Call Us If You're About to do Something Sick Switchboard This switchboard is open 24 hours a day and welcomes calls from those about to indulge in deviant sexual behavior. They do not • guarantee to dissuade you from. · doing whatever it is you~re about to do, but at least you can share your lustful moment with a sympathetic ear . The Record is curiously_ de:void of places for girls to find males, We suggest The Sacandaga School for Wayward ·Boys; Curfew: Dusk to . Dawn ... Enrollment:. Mandatory... A good place to meet former Union students. Attire is usually drab gray. ft is hoped these additions will be of use in the days to come. The term is young. Enjoy this year. Convention Continued from Page l It was because of the McGovern-Fraser- Reform Commission that this summer's Deinocratic Convention was able to come so close to reflecting the make-up of our society. I think that regardless of this electi·on, the reforms of the Democratic Party have helped the nation as well as the party. I think one thing is certain, because .of this year's Democratic Convention and the reforms which led up to it, polirics in the United States will never again be the same. Delegate '{ane will report on his acti\'iries next week in Concor'dy.

Ill es, ed jo be a in e, a ~ - n ,·: ' CONCORDJENSJS, friday, September 29, 1972 3 Everything You Wanted lo Know About WRUC What's Up Fall Term Fighting and staggering WRUC came gasping to life despite a series of events that would have frustrated a lesser organization. First, members of the crack Technical Crew discovered that the Niagara Mol:tawk power company had cut several wires on Lenox Road; then both of the stat.ion'& transmitters went out on Sim<!ay of Orientation week. ' photo by JeffWeilburg . · What you see .is what you hear. Perhaps as a result of the apparent good times to be had as a station member, about one hundred students attended the general meeting held last Monday night. Many of these were station members from last year, including the entire e:xecutive board. The hea\)' turnout ·Of 0ld members has helped to get the station off to a fast start. The sales department. under Kathy Mitche.IL has been canvasing local businesses for advertisements and has had a warm .response. This is vital to the station as a·bout half of the annual budget is made up from advertising revenue . In a recent study, the station historian tried to trace the origins 1' of the WRUC' attempts to go FM. In conversation with an ... alumnus he was informed that on a recording made in 194S there was mention of using the then relati·vely unused FM hand. No further mention of FM was made until 1956.. when the station received an application which was never completed. Several letters after that date n:fcr to FM possibilities, but not much effort was expended. ' After long hours of work, North, West and Richmond were brought hack to the air on Wednesday, followed by the rest of the campus dorms last Friday. The buildings on Lenox Road shol,lld have radio service next Tuesday as Tech Director Sarri King has spliced his way into immortality. Meanwhile the tech staff of the station is on a constant lookout for weak spots in , the station's transm*sion as this year WR UC strives to have the cleanest signal ever in the station's fifty-two year ·existence (the ol'dest in the country). (/eji to- right) Sam King, Peggy Miller, Kathy Mitchell, Peter Pach Then in 1967, station Vice President Boh Killian announced that WRUC would be FM by the end of the year. The article in Concordiensis goes on to detail plans for a fine arts station that would complement the rock format· of the AM operation. Nothing more was heard about FM until· 1969 when Charles Cusimano, the station president. started active work towards achieving a frequency. A great deal of time and effort was expended hy Roh Ditter and Dennis Fa;io (recent graduates), every plan seemed to advanct: well until a fi na I crucial moment when a decision by the FCC would go against WR lJC. . Over in the Programming Department, Peggy Miller is working hard planning and expanding the various programs the station will carry this year. Some new features to· watch for are an up-coming mystery series .. photo by Jeff Weilba~rg Crazy Bruce (9~/0AM) and a half hour of · news commentary from an editor\' of the New Yo11k Times. Most ·of last· year's: programming specials will continue with the regretful exception of the Zeb and Lester Out-to-Lunch Mountain Beys Show (But Sam Stone is alive and well.). · Mornings will be covered with Peter R Pach r-eturning to the 7- 9 A.M. slot, and Crazy Bruce Sostek will handle the reins from 9-10 A.M. The Hangover Show· has slipped from Harry Tipton's unsteady grasp, falling into the lap of an· eager Brownell Baily: Brownell will warm the tubes from 10 A.M. until noon each 1 Sunday. Also on Sunday,- Phantom will be spinning the classics-from noon until3 P.M. WRUC·will be continuing its . ride board of the air. If you :rre in need of a ride or riders leave your name, when you are going, where you are going, and how you can be reached on the WRUC ride board in Old Gym Hall. Sam Stone will air all the informati:o.n he has received on Wednesday and Thursday nights at lO P.M .. In the Sports Department two specials for this Fall are planned in the form of two football br<Jadcasts, from Rochester and Hamilton. More details of these broadcasts will be given at a later date. It is also possible that some of the basketball games will be carried on WR U C this .wintt:r .. Remote broadcasts will again be a big part of WR UC's term. At least one will originate from a nearby bar and The Third Annual WRUC Sock Hop is also scheduled ~or this fall. ln. the never-ending search for a spot· on the elusive FM dial WRUC remains hopeful, though the light at the end of the tunnel is relatively dim. Recently renewed efforts have revealed that there may yet be a solution to the problem of locating a tower. ihose station members working on the problem say they are \guardedly optimistic.\ · In other station news is the breakup of J~B. and the Flying Circus? Many members of the cast (emairi to take . individual shows, but the magic of .this merry band has left the center ring. S.B. still retains his ·(II P.M.-2 A.M.) Friday night vigil. On Wednesday night listeners will find a Jaz.;o: show dealing mainly with the 50's and 60's, as Philip Kass chairs this 7-9 P.M. show. RUC-AM and FM? WR UC's first public outing of the term was a not-so-tcmote that took place in the Dutchma·n's Rathskellar on Friday of Orientation week. Playing to a packed house from eight until midnight the crew from WRUC found a very responsive audience, though some credit must he given to the presence of beer at ten cents a glass. Present efforts are in the hands of Steve Hurgdorf, Sam King, and Marsh Gosnell. I hese art: the station members who have First Class Radio permits and can legally fih: an appli<:alion. Also lending a great deal ol assistance is a fourth ll nion student, Bob Smith, who take:; time out from his v.ork at WTR Y-FM to work on tht: WRUC application. I ht: historian failed to make any predictions a bout the present efforts, though he says they would keep trying until the last hurrah. Fan·Term Air ·schedule MONDAY 7-9 am Peter Pach 9-10 am Bruce Sostek 11-12 noonDave ·Proulx 12-1 pr?r Tom White 1-3 pm John Dolar 3-5 pm Bryan Chun 5-6 pm Rich Siegel 6-7 pm Don Kaplan 7_-9 pm Doug Carpenter 9-10 pm Geroge Lipsky 10-12 pm Chuck R(lthman 12-2 am Becky Grant (Folk Show) 1UES0AY 7-9 am Peter Pacl\ 9-10 am Bruce Sostek 11-12· noonCurtiss Abbott 12-1 pm Peggy Miller 3-5 pm Roberta Catozzi 5-6 pm Philip Kass 6-7 pm Mark McDonald 7-9 pm Tom White (Blues Show) 9-10 pm Chris Fink 10-12 pm Steve Reinhardt 12-2 am Kevin Drayton if!· . . : WE.h~E~'IJA y 7-9 am· Peter Pach · 9-IO.am Btuc~ Soste( 10~12 noo.nScott Glass .12-1' pm Mark McDonald 1-3 pm G'eorge Lipsky 3-5 pm Mike Milsom 5-6 pm' Phantom 6-7 pm Dqn Kaplan 7~9 pm Philip Kass 9-lOpm Peggy Miller 10-12 pm David Lustig 12-2'am Dave Zox THURSDAY 7-9 am Peter Pach 9-10 am Bruce Sostek ll-14 noonTom Behrendt 12-1 :pm Kathy Mitchell 5-.6 pm Chris Fink 6-7 pm Mark McDonald 7·9 pm Tom Behrendt 9-10 pm Mike Milsom 10·12 pm Jim Stekas 12-2' am Peter Pach (Golden Oldies Show) .. FRIDAY 7-9 am Peter Pach 9-10 am Bruce Sostek 10-11 ani Jim Stekas II- 12 noonJ ohn Dolar · 12-l pm Roberta Catoz1i 1-3 pm Mark Wallace 3-5 pm Curtis Abbott 6-7 pm Sam King I 1-2 am Joe Baird SATURDAY 1-3 pm Cur.tis Abbott SUNDAY I 0 am-noon Brownell Bailey (Happy Hangover Show) 12-3 pm Phantom (Classical Show) NEWS Round-up Emily Mendoza Dan Miley (Blues.; Jazz Show) 10-12 pm Howie Seife 5-6 pm 7-8 ptn 8~10 pm 12-2 am Mark Wallace NOTE: All \left-over'' times between 7 am and 2 am we are o~ the air, but the disk jockey Will .change too~often to list one person.

... .. 1>, ~:~ CONCORDIENSIS, friday; September 29, 191.2- Roomfu.l o·f Blues by TlM CAIN The floor ·of Hale House is covered from portrait-lined wall to portrait-lined waH with a brand new red carpet. lt's a nice carpet and it gives Hale House a litde bit of the ol' living room atmosphere. However,. the carpet does cover a dark, seemingly ancient floor, a tioor Which was attractive in its own right and admired by many of Hale House's traditional clientele, who would admire the floor when at a loss for something better to do. MICHA f..'L SACKS, Slaughterhuu:;e-Fil'e The Responsibility by_MATTHEW SWARTZ I had the opportunity to attend a press luncheon recently at the invitation of Universal Studio, · currently publicizing Slaughterhouse Five, Kurt V onnegut's first 'novel turned movie. Michael Sacks, who portrays Billy Pilgrim, possessor · of the ability to time travel or drift from the past to the future with unlimited stops in between, was the reason for the conference. I have found that the most successful interviews are not 4 uestion and answer sessions, as the local press in attendance seemed to think. Fortunately, I managed a few minutes before the tape recorders started to roll. This is the end product of those few minutes. A soft-spoken preppy and Harvard graduate.· Sacks conducts himself and his speech with polish: as he puts it, a craftsman in the art of acting; indisputable on the basis of his initial screen exposure. He enjoys acting and feels that the extent of his movie career is to provide the public with entertainment, insisting that the intellectualizing that follows movies like Slaughterhouse is rubbish. I was, quite frankly, distraught at this, considering the importance of the Dresden bombing to both the movie and Billy, \a survivor of the firebombing of Dresden by allied fliers during World War II.\ Whether we care to admit it or not. people's lives are being directly affected hy actors of extraordinary talents. President Nixon is an exceptional actor: Billy Graham: outstanding; John Wayne practically writes national policy with the work he does. Sacks refused to comment on the issue of United States imperialism in Indo-China. He does not see that his job should affect people's personal committments. However, he did manage to refuse Prime Cut with the phrase \a terrible,· terrible movie.\ Of course what he cares to say is his business entirely, rest assured. I am totally respectful of that. But, like the countless other Americans guilty of sin by omission. he provides the impetus for the Viet Nam situation with his refusal to simply admit that \international aggression is bad.\ I have had the good fortune to see · and read Slaughterhou~e Five. Both are. exemplary of our need to recognize ,.t\w reality of satire. Michael Sacks gives a sterling performance in a role that demands excellence in acting over some fifty years. Vonnegut's insight into the fourth dimension, time: becomes a visual exp,erience for th~ ftUdience to see through -· of Expression Billy Pilgrim's eyes. Valerie Perrine, already exposed by Playboy, as Montana makes the movie an R w.ith effective use of her breasts. Pilgrim's comrade-in- arms, th.e revenge motivated Paul Lazaro, is played by Ron Liebman. A larger part for Liebman would give him cause to Jay claim to the recogmtwn of this year's Best Supporting Actor. By all means, see Slaughterhouse. Perusal of the novel first will give you advance warning to buy your popcorn before sitting down because there's little chance to steal away at this one. Israeli Winter by RON \ROCK\ AJNES If you're fed up with Schenectady winters., keep reading. If you want a change in your educational process from the monotony of classes, continue. If you want to live and work, but not study that much ... If you answer affirmatively to any _of these questions, this article is aitned at you. The solution is to go to Israel this winter .. The only requirement is Hebrew l 0, a not-too-difficult course which teaches a little Hebrew. Outside of this demand, anyone, excluding the Frosh, can go. I guarantee an experiment that will always rank very high in your Top Ten List of Great Times. Living and working in a kibbut7 is totally different from what you are accustomed to at Union. Instead of rolling out of bed and dressing yourself warmly to combat the snow, the wind. and the cold of a Schenectady winter. why not journey 6,000 miles to the sunny Mediterranean'? Why only enjoy a two week vacation, which will see many head south to Florida, when you can live in Israel for 3Yc months and soak up the sun there'/ Why keep asking yourself, what am I doing in Schenectady. freezing my ass off? There_ is a simple solution to your woes: Next Term Take A Semester Abroad in Israel. How many times have you dreamt of living· in a collective settl~ment and working on the land? Well friends. next semester is your chance - the opportunity to bring that dream to fruition. A term in Israel is the experience you have been secretly desiring. Besides living in a warm climate instead · of facing a predicted harsh winter. plus working with your hands instead of your mind, these are other reasons why you should contact Prof. Berk about going to Israel. lt is the opportunity to live and work in a foreign land on school time. What is better than tra-velling around a· foreign country and not paying tnuch for that privile.ge'? What is wrong with meeting and living with people your age from a!1 over the world? Doesn't it sound better to be free in Israel than to be confined by the snow, wind, and cold of a Capital District winter? The program to go to Israel i& ·a bargain. I urge you to consider it. Then after deciding that it would be just so wonderful to spend the winter there, get in touch with Professor Berk at Room 215 in the Social Science Building as soon as possible. Here is the opportunity that you have been waiting for in order to get out of the rut you might be in at this time. See You In Jerusalem. tevrs· • Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ·r~- ~ ATTHENEW ~ PROCTOR'S I ~ THEATRE ~ 374-3308 ~ ~ ~ ~\ Sept. 22-0ct. 3 ~ I TH.EIGRADUATE THE PRODUCERS ~ ~ Oct. 4-0ct. I 0 ~ ~ THl.iNDERBAI.L ~ YOll ONtv LiVE TWICE I Oct. 11-0ct. l7 ~ •· FURTHER PERILS OF LAUREl- & HARD\' ~ FOUR CLOWNS ~ ~ Oct. 18•0ct. 24 ~ FIU.MORR ~ ~ ~ :;o>.; The new carpet got a real workout a week ago Tuesday, when Hale House became the scene of a \Mini~concerf' by \Roomful' .of Blues,\ a very special band from Rhode Island. - They are \special\ or unique in · that they don't rely on shallow, transparent gimmickry that might .guarantee temporary popularity as Ion/; a,s that particular fad was fashionable. For example: You doh't have· to he Sol Hurok to realize that, to a large extent, \the country sound is where ies currently at in popular music.\ Hence, pedal- st~el guitars and fiddles are beginning to crop up all over the radio. Of the songs currently cluttering up the Top Forty charts, there is something gimmicky, something lacking in substance, in songs by groups who have put on cowboy shirts and simply added a fiddle or pedal-steel guitar to their music. Bands wli.ose appeal depends largely on their ability to effect a \country .sound\ tend to fade into semi-obscurity (a-nd sometimes right into obscurity) when fashions change. , Roomful of Blues, on the other hand, base their appeal on solid, rocking blues, rhythm and blues, jazz, and ro<,:k•and~rolL It's good- time music, straightforward (although not really simple), and totally enjoyable. On Tuesday night in Hale House the band reached back and dusted off some songs from the Thirties and 0. PURE WOOl. Forties which got some people up and danci.ng on the new red . carpet. Since some of their music is relatively old, and much of the rest recorded by fairly unknown artists, the song titles were not easily recogniza·ble and even harder to remember., It is sufficient to note that all the numbers were done with flair and enthusiasm by seven talented musicians. Mike Robilan;l, on guitar and lead vocals, was particularly outstanding. Robilard is a very fine guitar player and his general appearance (topped off ·by a fedora that makes him look like an innocent bystander in an old Superman film) lends a real funkiness to his performance. A:l Copley's piano playing was smooth, impressive, ap.d punctuated by bursts of. jazz in some of the long~r songs. The band's distinctive .rhythm and blues sound depends largely on three excellent saxophone players: Rich Leyte on tenor sax, Greg Piccollo on baritone sax, and on alto sax, Doug - whose last name, along with John the drummer's has ·been lost in the shuffle. Bassist Ed Parnigoni rounds out the group. Roomful of .Sh.ies played to an enthusiastic audience in Hale House on Tuesday night and again in Nott Memorial on Wednesday night. It was a nice way to spend an evening and they are welcome back anytime - even in Hale Bouse. Adatn's Ribs by Beau Jeff A manly sleeveless pullover of 1 oo% virgin wool. Its surface is sculptured with neat vertical ribs. Its neck scooped out for the latest look in men's knits: Host of hearty solid hues. Hand washable. from $10.00 Dave's Squire Shop Tues, Thurs 'til 9 DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY .J sh str vi( a1 tra pu sto the La wi1 thi COl qu; La las1 bac Sec an< bet Un has fiw gan 1 Col exc Cas and veH 1 viet was the do \I and mo1 afte c line1 Wet. feat; . sop! and botl nam Hon We6l Tl not sopt lead; 20c · Wes: RCA Ju quar lR

ple ~ed is .he ,vn LOt en lS he ld :!d )fi as ar al a (e ld :tl lS d n e d n e ., ., ~ \ e ~ t .,, ... ', #,~ ,, ~ Friday, September 29, 1972 5 Booters Open Season • Next Tuesday by PAT BOHEN Soccer is a game best seen from the ground, a~ close as possible to the sideline. You can .get pretty close before a coach or official throws you off, or until fiying feet and battling bodies force you to seek refuge in the bleachers. The most fearless fans are the little boys who dart in and 0ut among the players to retrieve lost balls. Real soccer bears little resemblance to the free- for..,all barefoot brand we played as kids. lt\s a grueling game requiring speed , stamina, and ·a certain nonchalance about seeing your own blood spilled. Anyone that thinks soccer is just a sissy form of footbal.l had better reexamine the game. Making the cuts on the team was apparently a difficult job because out of the eighteen men cut, at least ten are capable of playing good varsity ball. The competition was rough, and that means Union has the best team possible. Each player chosen is adaptable to different positions, and the strength and versatility of the backup men gives the whole team security. The coach couldn't name the best of the ten schools the Gamet play during the regular season. but this year Union has added Williams, runners-up in last year's EC AC competition to the schedule. There have been. along with the usual hours of practice, several early scrimmages. The team looked good against a y\oung Siena club. and heat Oneonta United, an AAU accredited team, hy a score of 2-1. Junior fullback Sandy Wilder returns .Jur ms emru seu:.·un us erw keystone in a strong Garner soccer defense. The squad opens next On a field that is 120 yards long and 70 yards wide, (1 took a poll on third floor Fox, but couldn't get a consensus on the dimensions of a football field), soccer players run at top speed. Remember that they're not wearing helmets and pads;_ their only protection from the cleats (they may be only rubber, but [,'IJ bet they hurt) is a pair of shin guards. Talent seems to run rampant. and Coach McMurray is so happy with his team that it is hard to point out specific players to watch. But keep an eye on junior lineman 0. Hanes Serbevian, a transfer from Greece. He is adept at· fi\c (!) positions. Tuesday qfternoon at J, hosting Rochester. p~otob~ Le!! Kernan Larries To Test Grid·d·ers' ·Defense Coach Bob McMurray, who so patiently spent his time trying t0 explain some of the basic rules to my blank stare, estimates that the players each cover about 90% of the field during the course of a gaine. He also mentioned that a recent rule change The list of good players is endless. Picl-.. any name on the team roster and you'll find a good. and maybe even a great. player. Reiurning from last year's line will be senior Bob Bernhardt, Mark Brickley, and Marty Goossen. They will undoubtedly be among the starters, even though nothing is official as of this time. There is excellent halfback potential in returning senior Paul Martini and sophomore Doug Moran. The backfield boasts Olaf Neilsen and Sandy Wilder as probable starting fullbacks, and last year's great goalie, Jim Sletteland will be back. rounding out the outstanding defensive team. Union's football (earn, showing a surprisingly strong defense in its opening . victory, will try to make it two in a row Saturday as the Dutchmen travel to Canton, to take on · puzzling St. Lawrence. St. Lawrence is 1-l to date, stopping Plattsburg State, 16-0, then losing 28-15 to Colby. The Larries have an experienced 'club· with a proven offense but so far this season- have. lacked consistency. Jeff Kantor is a veteran quarterba.ck ~· who led St. Lawrence to four straight wins last season. With him in the backfield are experienced runners Scott Menzies, Glenn Johnson and Barry Dutter who gained better than I 00 yards against Union last fall. End Steve Sutton has averaged :28 yards a catch on five receptions in the first two games. ' The Larries' defense yielded to Colby but that should be· the exception this year as tackle AI Casline, lineba~r Gale Knull · and safety But~h Goette lead a veteran unit. · ·· The surprise of the 14-0 Union victory over WPI in the .opener was the defe.nse which allowed the Engineers ·only six first . downs, one hi the second half, and did not allow the visitors to mount a ~t!.Stained drive all afternoon. Capt. Tom Anaker at linebacker and end Charlie Weekes h;d the.'.unit, which also featured fine p~rformailces from sophomore linemen Bill Spelman and Don R..upsis. Jn addition, both Anaket an(:l Weekes were named to the All~ECAC Honorable Mention team for the weok. The Dutchman offense, while hot flashy, was consistent with sophomore Ron West brook leading the way with I 07 yards in Z.O carries and two touchdowns. Westbrook was named to the All- ECAC first team fo~ the week. Junior Gary Lauver opened at quarterback for Union and led • '· · Quality food ~ Dinner 4-8 p.m. Reasonable Prices IRed·Fox Inn Charcoal Burgers & .. Midnight Cold Sandwiches Jay Street ASK ABOVT THE ''II for 10 CLUB\ the Garnet to their first touchdown. Senior Bob Mitchell directed the second scoring drive after Lauver suffered a slight tendon pull. Lauver will · has made the time of a game two 45 minute halves instead of the quarters played before. That is one and one half times the length of a football game . probably start Saturday, assuming his ankle is in good . shape. He has been practicing since Wednesday. Bob Mitchell and Dave Rearic •• :-•1 .. 1........ 1-.a \''\1Tnhl.o f\r th·p .Last season's record was 6-3-1, the best since Union initiated soccer in 1924. Chances this year are even better for a winning team. Only three men were lost from last year's varsity squad, and Coach McMurray has filled their places with skilled men who can handle the job well. With potential like this, soccer is finally coming of age at Union. ~,,~ .... -.· -·~-:·· ~.~~~~: \ '~At\->:<.\,'!\ -4 ~ ... .o;: ,..,. Quarterback Bob Mitchell, abo1•e, completed jive of seven passes game. Sophomore Joe Urschel, who has a partially dislocated shoulder, will be out of action for the next three weeks. Seniors Bob Wiison and Skip Lega were the Dutchmen leaders along the offensive line. Union and St. Lawrence will be meeting for the 34th time since the series started in 1907, with Union holding a 15~13-5 edge, including victories in their last two meetings. Kickoff is slated for 2:00 p.m. thrown in last Saturday's win over WP/, buJ &·henectady's Gary Lauver probably will start as the Dutchmen travel to St. Lawrence. . I pl10to by Les Kernan tevrs Dave's.Mens Shop 453 State St • (downtown Schenectady) Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave.· Schenectady, New York 1231)8 - ADD TO YOPR EDUCATION- -LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES- Join Our WINE TASTING CLUB No Admissions Charge- No Requirements Each month we select a different wine to be te~ted. There is a card describing the wine in gteat detail so you ~an learn about it. On this card there i• a picture of the label so you can remember the wine in the future to impress your date whep you dine out or simply want a good bottle of wine. · Union Draws RPI 'As Foe In Tourney Albany State will play Siena and RPI is matched against Union in the opening round of the 12th annual Capital District Basketball Tournament to be played at Union, Friday and Saturday, Dec. 29 and 30. The pairing of the long time rivals in the first games this year resulted from an open draw with RPI athletic director Bob Oycatte making the blind pick. The initial match-up of regular season rivals had been avoided by mutual agreement since the tournament first featured the four area colleges in 1969. Defending champion Albany State will .play Siena at 7 p.m. the first night, While 1972 runner- up Union will face RPI at 9 p.m. The championship game will be played Saturday night at 9 p.m., preceded by a 7 p.m. consolation game. Albany State has been the dominant team since the tourney began in 1960, winning six titles and tying for a seventh. Siena has won the event three times and tied for I st in another. while. Union has won once in three tries and RPI has yet to win the championship in seven attempb. This is the first time the tourney has been played at Union. Under the new rotating host arrangement. the event will be at R PI next year. * * * * Th@re will be a practice rugby game this Sunday, October I, at 2:00 P.M. on Library Field. All persons who would like to play or who would like to learn how the game is played are invited. Beer may be served, for a minimal charge. ~New Opening' R.osa Restaurant & Pizza 1659 VanVranken Ave. Serving: Italian Dinners & Hot & Cold Submarine Sandwiches Could be eaten here, and ·also taking orders to go. Phone .no. 370~5510. Come and try it, I'm sure y;u~ '>.' Open Sundays from 12·10 p.m., and everyday frQm 11 A.M.-11 P.M., excluding Monday. Close,d Au nay Monday.

' 6 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, September 29, 1972 BLITHER There will be a meeting of the Socia·! Action Committee this Thursday. October 5, at 7:30 P.M. in Humanities 115. All interested students are urged to attend. * * * * bright freshman) level. The society in the works of Saint.: prerequisites are listed in the new Simon, Karl Marx, Emile Union Catalogue as \an Durkheim, Sigmund Freud, and in.troductory course in social Max Weber. science or permission of the Sociol~gy 112 •. The Dyna~ics instructor.\ We think that having of American. Society - Wm~er students from all the social . Semester. \'!'hts course d~al~ Wtth sciences in the course will make it the followmg char~ctertstlcs. of more interesting and valual>le. . contemporary Amencan soctety: · This · course sequence will technolog~, economy, bureau- introduce the students to the crac~, soctal clatss, pltover~y, coamn_ ~ The Socl .ol-ogy Deaprtment is . f - · 1 · . d mmuty coun.ercu ure .. , ... - , · · · · · · -_ perspectives o socm- science an- offering a new course sequence historica-l research, give them a protes.t movements. for all social science stuaents in change to \tool-up\ on reseCJ,rch S?cJOI?gy 164. Contempor~ry the principles and techniques of methods and techniques, and SociOlogical Theory - Sprmg social science (and historical) provide. them with the Seme~ter. This .cour~e covers the- research. This is a two-semester opportunity ' 0 take a supervised theones ?f s-ociety m _the works course sequence, Sociology 60 '!test-run-\ into the worlds of of some Important contemporary and 62 (Winter and Spring social science and historical social theorists, including Mills, semester.s) in which students will research. Parsons; Merton, Dahrendorf, study the various methods and * * * * and Marcuse. techniques of social science and In order to provide a first · ~ny students stili l~oking for a historical research in the first course in Sociology for juniors socwlogy cours~ this .semes~er semester, concluding with the and seniors in each semester of. may enroll now m Classtc Soc1al design of studies to be carried the school year, the following Theory (Tuesday and Thursday, through and reported in the courses will be open to them 2:30-4:20, Room. SS 110). second semester. without the prerequisite of Please note that these courses The course is being offered by Sociology 10. will be taqght by differe?t a Rew member of the Sociology l63. Classic Social ~embers of the Depa.rtment m . Department, Mr. Ken Kusterer, Theory _ Fall Semester. This dtfferent ye~rs,, so· theu content : whom you have probably met course will cover the theories of and emphasts will vary somewhat and whose own socio-historical from year to year. research you may have heard :;:::::=-+· ==========·=-- =~----..:... ................ .:._--. . .....,. __ ....,__, about. . A. d El . • co~~:s i~r=~e~;;~t~uct~~~ c~Z~~~ '·> · rca .e. - ectron.ICS in any of the social sciences and history, and they will be oriented · to the sophomore-junior (and Levrs DaYe's· Mens Shop 453 State St. . Pll!_itY/sabella s aJ\ -'9&·~ s. \SI PHARMACY, INC:. lt Accuracy ~ 527 Union St. § Schenectady_ N.Y. L .Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME u~~~J INTRODUCTORY OFFERS Son:y 1 Sympho.nic FM Preset Stereo • Stereo Record Player Tuner Amplifier $ , sa2 50 I, 65 ooj Reg. $~;,~·5 • • 5 79.97 - - 41 I REGISTER FOR TliE Factory ~warranty service • SONY CLOCK RADIO on Sony, Symphonic & other name brands. -------- ..... -----------· I Fast and Reliable I I Repair on All 1 ------------- ..... NAME- PLEASE PRINT Makes and Models I TV's, HiFi's, Radios. I .... .... ~-~---------- ALSO LOCATEDAT II ADDRESS 804 ALBANY ST. . I r I CALL 370-3680 I PHONE __________ , Union College Department of Biological' Sciences Seminar Announcement. Tuesday, October 3, 1972, 4:30 P.M. Bailey Hall, Room 312. Dr. George Butterstein, Department of Biological Sciences, will .speak on \Maternal-Fetal Interactions During Pcegnancy.\ Refreshments at 4;00 P.M. * * * * .. All Freshman civil engine.ers . and A.S.C.E. members are invited to Professor Harlow's house on Sunday, October I. for this year 1 s first A.S.C.E. meeting. Cars will ·leave from Potter Lab at I :30. ·Anyone who wishes to use his pool should bring ·-a· bathing suit. Please sign up at West College or in Butterfield Hall. T cps 'N Jeans n([) - ®P . , .. U® CIDIFIF \yl'fll 'flUS AD . \ • ONCE, A KNIGHT PREPARETH . JQ WASTE.A DRAGON, ·. ~ ' .. . . ' :: WHEN HIS HAND WAS STAYED 13Y A· PROPOSITION .••• THAT PROMISETH WARM COMPANIONSHIP 7HROUGH THE COURTL-Y GRACES ... t:NTRANCED BECAME THE KNIGHT AND HE PURCriASETH I . THE KIT FOR 1HE. TWO 6· PACKS OF SCHAEFER BeERE HE CARRIED ... . . l·n · AND THEN WORI<ETH ON HIS Ff·RST COMPLIMENT FOR MANY HOU.RS ... BEFORE GOING OFF TO COURT TO WIN l'HE HEART OF THE. KING'S DAUGHTER ... ~ . ., . _.. . ... . ·++= ddw - .... • ,. -4 • • ~ ... ' _Schaefer Brewe.rtes, New.York 9nd Albany, N.Y., Baltimore, Md., Lehigh Valll'!y, Pa.

engine.ers are Harlow's I, for meeting. Lab wishes to bring ~a· up at Butterfield CONCORDIENSIS, Friday. Sep1ember 29, 1972 7 BLIT·HER Rapid Reading courses are being · offered FREE this term. Each student is given a test to determine his weakness .before a · course of study is planned for the individual. For further information see Mrs. Reid in the AOC Office in Stoller Hall, the old Geology. Building. * * * * There will he a meeting of all students interested in playing instrumental music on Wednesday, October 4 at 7 o'clock \ in Humanities I 15. Representatives from the J~zz Workshop, Brass and Woodwmd Ensembles, and the .Student Orchestra will be present. Plans for the organization of these groups, as well as storage and rehearsal facilities on campus, wiH be discussed. Anyone interested is urged to atteqd. * * * * There will be a coffee house this Saturday at 8:30 at Phi · Sigma Kappa (1461 Lenox Rd.). Featured are Bob Field and Mark Mallor. Everyone is invited and the admission is free .. Performers interested in playing in the future please call Dave Boggs, 346-9735. . * * * * Socielo-gy 12 is no longer offered and Sociology I 0 is the only p-t:ereqmsite m the Department now. * * * * Any·one interested .. in playmg intercollegiate golf please report to the Block:-U Room (Alumni Gym) on Thursday, October 5, at. 3:30P.M. * * * * An important notice for all those weirdos who signe<l up for the Flying Dutchmen (football cheerleaders): Tryouts will be held Tuesday night at the Nott Nipple. Everyone wishing to try out must have an original cheer, which he will perform at that time. It is very important that the cheer be both original and good, because on that basis rrew recruits will be chosen. * * * * Try-outs for the Mountebanks' major fall production, J.B., will be held this Wednesday, Thursday., and Fdday; October 4- 6. A large cast is. needed, so the entire college community .is encouraged to try out. Sign-up sheets are in the Nott Memorial green room. Crew sign-ups for both J~JJ. anc! Tlte Brig will also be in the green room, and we need everybody who can do anything, so please feel free. Test- drive a Mountebank: plant a tree. * * ·* * Any Senior interested in applying for a Danforth Graduate Fellowship Should contact Prof. Byron Nichols 10 SS-121 as soon as possible. * * * * PIRG ~Group: Nader-Sty/e McGovern by JUDY DEIN by SUSA,N GRELICK You can show that v o u arc serious-ly trying to - ·change injustices in this society thro.ugh PU{G, Public Interest Research Group. All you need is energy and concern. PIRG is a Nader-style action group which can help bring about needed changes in va,rious areas. These areas include environmental preservation, consumer protection, and social problems. PlRG originated in response to student queries as to how they might effect~vely work to solve problems facing all citizens. Ralph Nader suggested that student-funded and directed public interest groups were one way in which students could focus their idealism, manpower. and energy for effective change. Such groups build upon lessons learned from past students efforts. Last year., following visits by Ralph Nader to both Oregon and Minnesota, !;>tudents in. those states joined together to form student PIRG. Students are conducting . research into problems of water pollution and health care services. People of the Schenectady area will be able to call f>IRG ,on the Union campus and voice complaints. We, the students of Uniorr College, can do ·research, and On Monday night, September while doing rest:arch, raise public 25 . close to 100 pro-McGovern support and awareness. Proposals can then be drafted, st4dents met together in the Humanities building. and interaction with community Andrew Lichterman, Schen- services and professionals can nectady· county coordinator, bring change. was the main speaker. He ln rec. e.nt \.'ears. it has become . J explamed t'hat most students increasingly apparent that the were not active in the primary interests of the average citi.zen in campa,\gns. Now however. preserving his environment. students are needed to work on eliminating po\Wt\ and · · · J press releases, fund raismg. malnutrition, and encouraging . C<\11Vassmg. and most important, fair practices in the marketplace voter registration. are frequently ignored· Our Since this is the first time that system of government reacts to 1!1-year-olds will be permitted to power, and individual citizens do vote in. a presidential election, not have. the t•ime. resources. or many are not awan: of the steps advice necessary to exert an • necessary to obtain an absenll'e influence. Thus. we are ignored. ballot. A McGm ern A PIRG win provide the. vehick . . representatiVe will come <Hound citizens need to control their . 0 . d . . to every room. and exphun the govemment. rgamze citvcm. ,d . TI . • .·11 h. , . h . 11 1 bb 1 . h . procc: me. 1e1~ 1>.~ c: one: c:o- ':\ o contmua Y 0 Y ~>r 1 Clr I ordinator for e\erv dorm. at~d a mtersts and expose what Is really II ·td •r 1· 1 . \lch f'l • , . . b e, u o c;, oor. ~omg on 10 society, cannot c Due to the fact that llnion Ignored. , . . . PlRG College started so late in the By parttctpatmg In . you term, the Mdio\an can become more- aware o! tht; problems in our society, the research required to understand these problems. the possibilities for their solution, and the means ofsolution-implementation. . If there ate any questiqns. please contact Susan Greliek in 21 I Fox, or ;tttend the organizational meeting, next Tuesday. Oct. 3, at 7:30 in the Library Music Room. organitatinn must start work immediatdy. Students can either work in the downtown headquarters located at JOl) State Street, or they may work nn campus. There should he a General Campus Organi/atinn operating soon. CAll-A DRINK TBAT HELPED DEFEAT - - - . . . THE JIPAlVESE SECRET SERVICE IN WORLD WAR II, BELP YOU GET THROUGH COLLEGE? Anyone interested in working oR campu~ sh.ould contact 1\ieil Kane 377-7630. or Eltcn Roth in room 210 Fox. If you want ,to work in . the do\\ntoi·n office either go to the <\!lice or call 370- 1.005. There is a lot to he done. llii.iii .... iii~£ .. • ~I • c . . . _ . Answer the ten questions . , of the Brass Monkey Undercover Scholarship Contest and win a year's tuition to college. The Ten Undercover OuQstions Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (dowfltawn Schenectady) DIAMOND EN(;A<a:MENT & WEDDINC RIN<;s 3,000 ring selections ill an ·styles at 50% discount to students, staff, and faculty. Buy direct from leading manufacturer I. What was the name of the Japanese Secret Service? ·and SAVE! 'h carat $179, ~ carat only $299. For fre.e color folder write: Rox 42, Fanwood, About a year and a half ago we introduced a drink called the Brass Monkey, It's made from a secret reCipe we learned from an old {riend of H. E. Raspke, who was purported to . · ·•· .. , · · be the Brass Monkey himself, an allied secret agent, operating out of Macao during World War IL The legend of the BrassMonkey was so fasci- nating, we pieced together and reconstructed as much of it as we could in our advertising. It rE:Jads like a B-movie script complete with sples, counter- spies, smugg.lers, soldiers-of·fortune. mercenaries, river pirates and mysterious disappearances. If you \re ever tasted the Brass Monkey di1d are familiar with the three ads that we've been running, you've got a pretty good shot at answering the following ten questions. To moke it a little easier, we '11 give you the headlines of the ads and where they appear. · Headlines: \The Brass Monkey Returns\ \The Brass Mohkey Js Worth Two ·• AircrctftCa-rriets In The Cored Sea\ i'Was The Brass Mon-key A.Woman ?\ Where They Appear: . · \Rolling Stone\ October 12, October26 and November9 Remember, the best answers to these ten questions win a year's free tuition at any college of'your choice in the country (provided you're enrolled, of course). Give it a try. You've got nothing to lose, and considering the price-of education nowadtxys, anawfullot to gain. Please mail all entries to: Brass Monkey Undercover Scholarship Contest Post Office Box 2016 Hartford, Connecticut 06101 Good Luck! 2. How did the Brass Monkey Club get its name? 3. What was the name of the street where the Brass Monkey Club was located? -4. If the Brass Monkey was a woman. what two possible names could she have had besides H. E. Rasske? S. What is tne color of the Bross Monkey Cocktail? · 6. How did Admiral Kokura die? 1. Where is H. E. Rasske reputed to live now? 8. During World War II. what was reputed to be the principal form of commerce in Macao? 9. What was the name of the quinine dealer? 10. Loyana sang \My Love is a Man of Gold.'' What do you think the lyrics of this song might have been? HEUBLEIN COCKTAILS Ai! entries will be judged by an Independent judg.mg organization. No entnes w1ll be judyeu ..liter 12/31/72. EniJJ,uyees cmd then dependent\ of Heublein, Inc .. its subsidiaries. affiliates and their aqendes or i'Jd•.Jihg organization :rre not eh-pb!e for this c-ontest. N.J. 07023 Maurice 8. Graubort & Sons / For three Generations 166 Jay· St. For Honest Servic · . And Good Jewelry RESEARCH MATERIALS . All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 417-8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman'' .--------. 1 <traualier' s 1 t l st speciall;ing t f p in hot dogs f t . rize with be~t hot I Hot DllgS >auce in to•n: r Seri'ihg Breakfast. t 1 Lunch & Dinner f 1 Open 7 days a week I ! Mon.- Ihurs. 6-1 a.m. ! ' Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. ' t Sunday . 9·! a.m. f t _ _!r!_B!!·~~- _t

· 8 CONCORD/EN SIS, Priday, Srptember 29, 197~ --------~--~----------~----------~----~------~~------~~.~.·--~----~--~ / ·We invited a few friends for dinner and they helped clean up the Genesee River:. With the aid of a few thousand pounds of microorga- nisms., we're helping to solve the water pollution problem in Rochester. Maybe the solution can help others. What we did was to combine two processes in a way that gives us one of the most efficient water-purifying sys- tems private industry has ever developed. One process is called ''activated sludge,\ developed by man to accelerate nature's microorganism adsorption. What this means is that for the majority of wastes man can produce, there is an organism waiting somewhere that will happily assimilate it. And thrive on it. The breakthrough came when Kodak scientists found a way to combine the activated sludge process with a trickling filter process and optimized the combination. We tested our system in a pilot plant for five years. (At Kodak, we we:re wt>rking on enviroJ.¥mental improvement long before it made headlines.) And the pilot project worked so well, we built a ten~rnillion-doilar plant that can purify 36-million. gallons· of wateraday. · Governor Rockefeller called th.is \the biggest volun- tary project undertaken by private industry in support of New York State 1 s pure-water program.\ Why did we do it? Partly because we're in business to make a profit-and clean water is vital to our business. But in furthering OUT ·Own needS, We have helped furthi:!r society's. And o'Qr business depends on society. We hope our efforts to cope with water pollution will inspire others to do the same. And, we'd be happy to share our water-purifying information with them. We all need clean · water. So we all have to wo1·k together. Kodak More than a business.

