·~ G-l-aduation Issue .. . - ' . .. ' - - Vol. HU, No. 48 ·~ .\~ ··.\ ) ' ·.;·

·2 CONCORVIENSIS., Thur$day_ 1 June 1, 1972 . · Senate Acts . . On Referendum by PATTY SIPE In its last meeting of the year, the All-College Senate liist. week considered various topics, such as the continuation of Jl,ldaic studies, the proposals recently presented in the refer~~dum financing of Counseling Services for next year, and additional tuition charges for overloads. . . , . Professor Stephen Rerk, the coordinator of Unwn s term Jn Israel, spoke in support of the recommendations ma?e by t.he Curricular Affairs Committee concerning the Juda1c Studies .Program. These recommendations were to eontinue Hebrew language offeri·ngs at their present level at least through 1974-75, to choose the instructor in Hebrew according to standards used for instructors in othe.r language offerings, and to make Hebr~w 10 a prerequisite for the term in IsraeL The Senate voted unanrmo~sly to approve these 'three proposals, then passed .a. resolution regretting the decisions contrary to the spmt of the recommendations which have apparently already been made by President Martin. A proposal to provide faculty members :with a list of stude~ts taking their courses on a pass/fail basis was defeated by a vote of ?- 16. The by-laws of the An-College Senate were approved and Will be made available in their final form at a later date. ·The Senate voted to recommend to the Board of Trustees that an additiemal charge of two hundred dollars per course for each course irt excess of ten per year be made. The motion passed by a vote of 16-3, while an amendment to apply funds raised in this manner to scholarships (insofar as possible) was defeated 12-g. In its most controversial business of the day, the Senate recon~idered the proposals it passed in i.ts last meeting. The proposals were: . . . . I) That a student, with the consent of h1s faculty adviser, may take less than a full course load dming a given tetm. 2) That a student may drop a course up to the end of the sixth week of a term for any reason and without penalty, upon proper notification to the Registrar. . and 3) That a student be permitted to drop a cours~ Without penalty after the end of the sixth week of a term but pnor to .the end of the tenth week of classes or the date of the fmal examination, which·ever is later, provided that the student's faculty adviser or the Dean approve. These proposals were recently presented to t.he faculty and student body in a referendum. The faculty reJected all ~hree proposals by a slight majority w.hile the .stu.dents overwhelmmgly approved all three. A two-thirds . maJont~ was needed for affirmation of each proposal, and while the hrst passed 15-6, the second and third failed. The Senate voted to delete the sentence from the College catalogue which !:_estricts the use of automobiles by students receiving financial aid. The Senate passed a proposal recommending to the Board of Trustees that an additional charge of $3.00 per year be collected from each student in order to maintain the present level of counseling at Union. Russell-and Robbins. To Receive Aw·ar;ds by· PHIL JOHNSON Union Colle~e will award honorary degrees to two women and five men, incl.uding noted choreographer Jerome Robbins and basketball great :Bill Russell, at commencement ceremonies Saturday June lO on the campus, Robbins, winner of nearly every major American and international .award for choreography, will receive the honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree while Russell, who led the Roston Celtics to II National Bacsketball Association championships and now is a television commentator, witl receive the honorary Doctor of Laws degree. Others tecelVlng honorary degrees are Walter A. Fallon, recently .elected president of the Eastman Kodak Company; Theodore R. Sizer, dean of the graduate school of education at Harvard University; Mrs. Katherine Scranton Eozendaal, prominent Schenectady citizen and chairman of Skidmore College Board of Trustees and Codman Hislop, research professor of American Civilization at Union. Receiving the honorary Doctor of Letters degree will be Ruth M. Adams, president of Wellesley College, who will be the first woman in Union's 177-year history to give the principal commencement address. Dr. Adams will become the first woman vice president of Dartmouth CoUege July I. Robbins has done ballet, opera, television, musicals · and motion pictures and among his d ··o .. many awar s are two scars and four ''Toni's.\ He was the choreographer for such well know works as ''West Side Story,\ \Peter Pan\ with Mary Bill Russell, courtside, with ABC sidekil:k Keith iachon. Martin and \Fiddler on the wife of 'Schenectady · physician\ Roof.\ Dr. Hans -M. Rozendaal,. she is Russell led the University of president ·of the Schenectady San Francisco to. a ·national Museum, a trustee of WMHT, co:llegiate record of 60 the local educational television consecutive victories, and the station and holds positions with 1956 U.S. Olympic basketball numerous other community team to a gold medal before organizations as well as the jQining the Boston Celtics. In his chairmanship of the trustee 13 years as a pro player, the hoard at nearby Skidmore Celtics won 11 NBA titles and he College. closed out his career in the sport Hislop, a 1931 graduate of in 1970 after coaching his old Union and member of the team for three years. He college's faculty since 1932, will currently hosts his own television receive the Doctor of Letters ser.ies, \The Bill Russell Show\ degree. He received his master's and is a television sports degree from Columbia University commentator. and a doctorate from Harvard Fallon, a SchenectadY native and is the author of three books, and a 1940 graduate of Union,will the most recent '\Eliphalet Nott,\ receive the Doctor of Science a biograp,hy of Union's degree. A chemist,. he joined controversial 19th president, Eastman Kodak in 1941. and this published last year. He has been month (5/72) was elected the research professor at the college tenth president ofthe company. since 1965 and was the discoverer Sizer, who will receive the of a cache of colonialletter.s ~hat Doctor of Letters degree, will included a note to· .. {!eorge become headmaster of Phillips Washington that first informed Academy - Andover, July 1. A the General of Benedict Arnold's Yale University graduate with a spy activities. · doctorate from Harvard, he has The seven honoray degrees and been dean of the graduate school approximately 540 earned Gf education at Harvard since degrees will be awarded at the 1964.. June 10 ceremonies ending Mrs. Rozendaal, sister of Unio~'s 177th academic year. former Pennsylvania governor The commencement program, will William Scranton, will receive begin at 5:15p.m. on the campus: the Doctor of Laws degree. The A Different Disney Three PrQjesSors ' .• ~ - •• , t ' by TIM CAIN Inside Nott Memorial this past weekend, there was a hUge, griiming, painted, plywood image of the face of our old rodent friend in white gloves. Mickey Mouse. Mickey's face was so big that if his body were attached to it, he would be able upon standing up, to see over the top of West College. This huge. twenty-~ve foot image of Mickey Mouse\ face smiled down from one wall of the Nott Memorial theater onto a circular red stage, upon which the cute Mouseketeers and all the Disney characters could sing and dance their way into your heart Well, not quite. These Mouseketeers and Disney characters are in a play called \Disnetia. The Glamorous Globe,\ written and directed by Union students Peter Tarshis and Mark Roylan. For Roylan. and Tarshis. Walt Disney's world was not peopled by adorable, innocent little tykes wearing mouse ears and funny uniforms. Neither do Boylan and Tarshis view the Disney characters (such as Goofy and Donald Duck). as simple-minded, one-dimensional jokesters that Walt had in mind when he first created them. No, the Mouseketeers and the . Disney characters are all . very human in \Disnetia with all the varying aspects of human nature. For example, Cubby, played by AI Levy, keeps interrupting the show to ask embarrassing questions about sex. Tommy, played by Greg Freclon, would launch into a sociological analysis of the plight of the oppressed peoples of the world whenever he felt the urge. Tom Paul De(fin am/f(d/mr Mouseketeers D'Aioisio, in the roles of Mouseketeer Robby and Marty of \Spin and Marty\ fame, was liorny for Annette throughout most of the play. Jeff Wisoff; who played Mouseketeer JayJay, was more thoughtful and reflective and would raise questions about whether or not \people were reaDy happy.\ The question of whether or not people are really happy, and Whether or not they are really having fun seems to be one of the underlying themes in \Disnetia.\ With this play. which is essentia:Jly a musical parody of the Mickey Mouse Show of the 50's, Roylan and Tarshis .are giving us a behind-the-scenes, inside glimpse of the Mickey Mouse Show in particular, and the Disney-created world in general. The authors of \Disnetia\ have apparently never ,foFgiven old Walt for the un~eal, packaged happiness of the Mickey Mouse Show. Boylan and Tarshis aim their satire at the obliviousness to larger social concerns that characterized the Disney world, and the general disregard for everyday human problems, such as the problems encountered in growing up. The Disney happiness ethic, \Disnetia's\ authors might argue, excludes any concern for the sobering human problems that might keep people from laughing. Laughter is the prodUct that Disney has to offer. and the assumption is that the audience will mistake laughter's heady euphoria for genuine happiness. At one point in the play, Spin expressed doubt that \people are really happy.\ Mouseketeer leader Jimmy, referring to the laughter and smiles of the · Continued on Page 11 ' A bout To Retire 1 Carl Niemeyer, Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature at Union College. will retire from the faculty in June •• ending a teaching career at Union that began in 1946. Also retiring at the end of the current academic year are Edward H. Elliott, science librarian at the Schaffer Library !;ince 1961, and Leo A Aroian, professor . of industrial administration for the past four years. During his 26 years at Union, Prof. Niemeyer has served as chairman of the division of humanities and as chairman of the English Department. He was named to the Lamont chair in English in I 968. In 1951-52, he was Union's exchange professor at St. Andrews University in Scotland whete 'he gave the first c.ourse of lectures in American Literature evei' presented at the institution. A wide-ranging scholar, he has taught courses from Chaucer to Modern Poetry at Union and has been a contributor to numerous journals. He recently wrote the introduction to a publication of Thomas Carlyle's \On Heroes, Hero Worship and the Heroic in History;\ A Quincy, Ill. native, he is a graduate of the University of Kansas and earned his doctorate at Harvard University. He taught at Grinnell College and in the Chicago Municipal College system before coming to tJnion. Mr. Elliott, an associate professor, came to .Union i!l-1961 from the General Electnc Co. where he was manager of the main library. At Union he has been responsible for the acquisition . and control of scientific books and journals. A graduate of the University of Wisconsin with a master's degree from the P.ratt Institute Ubrary School, he came to Schenectady in 1945 and ·worked for 16 years with G.E. bef<lre coming to Union. Prof. Aroian came to Union in 1968 from TRW Systems in Redondo Beach, Calif., where he was senior staff mathematician and head of' the effectiveness analysis section. A graduate of the University of Michigan where he also received his doctorate, Prof. . Aroian is widely known in professional circles for hi!l work in sequential ana~ysis, He initiated the high speed computation laboratory at Hughes Aircraft Co. in California where he worked for 18 years before joining TRW in 1960. In addition to his prior industrial experience, he also had previously taught at Colorado State University, Hunter College and at the extensio11 campus of U.C.L.A. The three men each live m Sc.henectady. Anyone w~o has any ideas or suggestions for next year's Concordy is welcome to leave them in the Concordy mail box at Student Activities or drop th~m off at 361 Fox. - •) \1 Ill··· w lotft and IJ 1/ 9 ton C! and a ,.,_ ' ~ + It l The studen1 ~ ¢ co mini a cad en Soci: to 12): ·• l3 Peggy Mike 1 Forsdic \t Sherm~ Willis; Corwi]j Tax· !/ it~ chaitm Calend Aca Rich a ';l • l>reuin1 Kessler Dize ., 't Adm Peggy John iJ Sah11 J> ... Tenure: ldelkop

. t o) \1 I/ 9 ') I J t • ·. , COftlCORDJENSIS. Thursdtl)•. Jtme I, /9T2 CON CORDY INTERVIEW:. JACK BRENNAN the eaty ,gourmets have a ca~did conversatioiTJ uith the unique owner .. of ·~jump/n.~iack 's\ the \nathan's\ of up8tate new york Weil. kiddies this .i$ the on,~ y..au've been man would come in with tds wife a11d .kids waitinl( so P?t.iently for. At long /(181 rlw Eaty and they'd want Ice cream and he·d want a Gourmets ·(Ire revealing th(? premier dining hot dog or a hambur~r. l'm on the board of spot in the Electric City. J;.etts ft:~l'f! it gang, directors of Nattoqal Drive-In Mana1emen1 wQs th~re ever. any doubt , tha( it would . be Magadlle - here~s an article (1966) aTf,ything but J.JJIIlP~' ~ac;:k~. the ~·than~s of ••.Jumpin')ack's, Utopia on the Mohawk.\ Upstate, New York. S~nc.e .YfJu: ·Prohpbly . CON(;;,O~DY; Could yoq give us a already ~n(Jw jusio· how ·good' Jack~s is· we description·ofyour operation.here? d~cided not to bu_rden you w~th ou:r own sales BRENNAN: I have about thirty to thirty two pztch. !nstead we ve decided to let Jack speak men now on the payroll; we seat 300 pe~wte for h1mself. What follows iS Q candid and have a parking. lot for 200, until tile interview with one of the most amazing and bridge goes through and then I'll hardtop tile intere$ting, men .in th¢ ;drivt:-in· restaurant back and have parking for 400; and I had to business, Ju»:Jpin' Jack Bren,non. So, without put up a warehouse in back because we 1 re any further adi€!u. here's Jack. bulging at the seams and our building CONCORDY: Djd you originally start as an couldn•t handle the merchandise that had to ice cream stand, and if so why did you branch go out ln one :week we move a ton and a half into hot dogs and hamburgers? of French fries; we•re peeling a ton of onions BRENNAN: I originally started as an ice a week just for onion rings, and all my clam.s cream stand. It was a little wooden shack 1 and fish come fresh from :Ipswich; for twenty had before I built this big building. That was years my fish has come from Harding Fish 20 years ago. After World ·War II I went to Co. of Boston. I call them on. the teleplt.one work for Mohegan Markets and I was one day like yesterday and they gave me th.e supervisor of Albany Public Market for three price of the fresh fish on the boats coming in or fours years and entered into my own . at noon and they know the tonnag~ Th~re·s business here and I can remember the days I such a tight line of command - where 1 eall first started. I borrowed Z5.000 dollars when I the fish pier at say ten or eleven o•clock - was about thirty four or thirty five -.- I had first of all let's get ahead of the story - the everything in hawk but my wife and kid, and boats a~out. nine or ten in the morning that I nad 700 dollar a month payments, and I are commg mto the port know their t()mtage didn't pay the:m, I worried them, and I aboard - so many tons of cod, so many- ():f opened up the doors and it was March and it haddock, so much this or that or flou.nders. was blowin' and snowin', . and I went home They call in when they get within the ten mile about the first week in April and sat down to limit and their phones are short enoagh to have a meal with my wife about ten o'clock call in to their home fisheries and tney say that night; and I just couldn't eat and I \O.K. on boat no. such-and-:such we're startedto cry, and my wife says, \Jack whafs bringing in so many tons of this-or-that.~ wrong?\' and I says, \Honey rm so happy, 1 Therefore they know in the fisheries in just feel- that way,\ and she says, \What are Boston, even though the fish isn't even yvu so happy a,bout?' and I says, \Do you unloaded yet how many tons are comiti'· .in know how cold it was today'r' and I says \I that day ~ · because of the tonnage they took in some 400 doUars in ice cream! Do establish the price. If it's short, the price is you know what's going to happen when the high - if they get a lot of one kind of fish the warm weather comes?\ Honest to goodness I price goes down. They gotta unload this fisl'l think that man upstairs has helped me ~n ~ it's hot merchandise lx;:cause it's fresh. awful lot. This thing, when it got warmer Alright, so I will f;ill at maybe ten o~clbclc weather,just took off, and that's why I had to and these boats are maybe two miles offsh~re,. build that wooden building back there the and they say \O.K. you can buy your following year and I just kept pouring. the haddock filets for 74e a pound F.O.D. money back into it afterwards. Boston\ a1;1d I say \Fine- then send me 30() Why hot dogs? Demand, public deml!Qd. A pounds of h~d~ock and 100 gallons of clws \ .•. we seat JOOpeople and.have a parking lot for 200: In one week ·we move a ton and a half of French fries, we're peeling Q ton of onions a week just for onion rings, and all my clams and fish come fresh from \' Ipswich. \ '' you may think l'm in the drtve,in business, but I've got news fol' you, I'm in the weather business. And when I find o~t 85°. no showers, and muggy, I know trn going to get clobbered.\ Study Abroad: Bruce - Good\ and that's it. The boats get in around one and start unloading and they start filetin,g this fish, scalin' it, filetin' it,. p-uuin' it in tins, icin' it down - there's an emp.ty tractor trailer sittin' on the dock for Capitol. District ~ that goes right on that trailer ~ by four thirty that afternoon, in other words, yesterday noon when I called in, ~t four thiJ;ty that .afternoon my fish had been fileted, iced down, put on this truck, and at sill. o'clock this morning the truck drppped it off at my back door, and about eight o'clock this crew <Jf men come in, they'll cut this up, and when you come in at eleven o~clock today you virtually a~most 11te fish that was almost swimmin' yesterday. I'm about the only one left at drive-ins that carries fresh fish and 1 don't know how long I can enduFe on it because fresh fish is getting like shrimp - out of sight! - because of the labor, the boats, and the Russian boats are doing an awful job on ouF watet;s out there and shall I say they have far better equipment. We're importing an awful lot of fish from Norway, Norwegian haddock and things like that, coming in frozen. CONCORDY: What makes you different from other drive-ins? :BRENNAN: I've carried all these things and stuck to a quality stand; I broil everything instead .of frying; I'm not talking French fries, I'm talking meat - hamburgers, hot dogs, and I don't know as I'd call myself an individualist but - I spent 14 years in managing big supermarkets before I entered this business and l must admit that I didn't know how to make a bit of ice cream or to even cook a hamburger or French fries, any more than you do, but I did have 14 years of experience driven into me the way you have things driven into you in college. It gave me the gumption enough to go into my own business, cooking something I knew nothing about, but as far as handlin' help and handlin' public I'd had a lot of experience on that. With the combinfltion of what I did know and the good leadership of what I didn't know I think I owe it to the success of this place. In twenty years ifs come tp quite a bllsiness! Continued on Pag4' 8 ·~ .•• but I mean its hard work. ami ther have to scrub floors, and wash down thi.~. and clean toilets, and things I Wlmldn~t want my daughter or your daughter or sister to do. So, therefore, its like putting_ women on bulldozers, its a little wo rough work.\ From The Prez To The tm Collece Gnnluates: Wh.en I think of what it means to be. graduating from college in today's world, I reflect someril!les on the story that is told of an old and wise teacher in ancient Greece. It is said that there was no ,question which the teacher (:auld not answer and nothing which he could not understand. Finally. one student thought of a way to discredit his teacher~s wisdom. The student planned to conceal a bird in his hands. He would ask the old man to guess what he was holding and, if he guesse<f a bird. the boy would ask v·hether it was dead or alive. Should the old man guess dead, the boy would let the bird fly away. But. if the wise man guessed the bird was alive. the boy would crush out its life and open his hands to reveal a dead bird. And so it happened, until the hoy asked, \Is the bird alive or dead'?\ The old man replied, \My son, the answer to that question is in your hands.\ Today the future of this Nation surely rests in your hands. Whether the promise of progress and prosperity will be reali7ed. whether democracy and freedom will grow, whether men wi'll continue to he governed by human wisdom all this. and more, rests in your hands. You are the best educated generation in our history. What will you do with your knowledge and ideas'! How fully will you engage your mind and will and spirit in helping to make America an even better place to live'! I am hopeful that you will usc your talents and knowledge to help make our Nation's ideals a reality. Now is the time for a future of peace, for more responsive government. for equaL opportunity for all. I congratulate you ()0 what you have finished lind look forward with hope toward what you can now hegin to accomplish. Richard Nixon 1972-73 With the graduation•of current Editor-in-Chief Mike Meserole, junior Managing Editor George Bain will assume the position of Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis for the first two terms of the 1972-73 academic year. Joining him on the editorial staff wiD be, as associate editors, Tim Cain and Matt Swartz; as managing editors, Rita Morandi and Jim Rostenberg; as features editor, AI Reisch; as sports editor, Bruce Batchelder; as photo editors, Scott Gordon and Les Kernan; as business manager, Mike Hurley; and as subscriptions manager, Mike Bermtein. Louis S. Snitkoff and Peter Dickerman wiD ser'le as executive editors. - Line-up Goldberg; Steve Karotkin; Howard Seife. The following is a list of those Budget and. Priorities: Dave the summer - and lincl them ~ there in September - areinfor a rude surprise. Sheila :Beam. Dean ~ of Residence Program>, has t announced that all personal t ATTENTION! students who will serve on Robbins; Steven Spellman; committees during the next Helen Billak; Henry Riehl. academic year. Curricuiar Affairs: Rich Siegel; Social Committee (expanded Howard Stone; Peg Mancuso; to 12): Mark Shugoll, chairman; Rita Fishman; Richard Levinson. Peggy Miller, vice-chairman; Elections: Joe Schwartz; John Mike Milsom; Bill Cook; Arthur Dolan; Richard Vieira; John Forsdick; Paul Martini: Barbara Bridger; Robin Waring; Robert Sherman; Jill Manning; Kevin Bullard; Bruce Downsbrough. belongings remamutg in the •s· d F. I rooms during the sumner recess :~ tu en ts, · acu ty, and Staff· will be removed and disposed of Willis; Virginia Lyle; Rita Foreip Students: Bennett R. Corwin; Bob F~in. . FitzAlan-Howatd; Andy Tax· Commattee: Pat Gt11da, Richman. chairman; John Bridger; Johrr Graduat~ Studies: Peter Slavis; Calender. Joe Schwartz. Academic Opportunity: Liaison and Governance: Peter Richard Kern; Frederick Bickerman· Robert Bullard· Paul Preuinger; Kevin Willis; Nancy Johnson. ' ; Kessler; Virginia Lyle; Cranston Dize Admissions: Kevin Willis; Peggy Miller; Chuck Sabatt; John be Sai:x; Steve karotkin. Heave-Ho Salaries, Promotion and Those students who expected Tenure: Marty Sherman; Geerge to keep furniture and Idetkope; Bob Bernhardt. refrigerators in their rooms over by the Maintenance l)epartrnent. • Dean Beam asserte<i t.hat such action is necessary because maintenance men are goi l)g to embark upon a room-by-room search for sections in 11eed of t repair. This decisi()n places many ~ • students in a difficult ~ predicament, since t~ere are no ~ storage facilities on campus. In response to the arg:urr:ient that 1 t students al'e being forced in incur ~ a finanCial loss, Detm Ream· ~ replied that the student contract ~ for residence mns from H September to June and' does not H apply to the summer. ~ ~ Information concerning the ~ precise nature of the regulations ~ will be forwarded to stttdents ~ • during vacation. Rent furniture while at school short-term as little as 3 months Low Cost - $20 for complete • LIVING\ ROOM • BEDROOM • DINETTE SET Albany-Sherman Furniture Rental Rt. 9, south of the Latham Circle 785-3050 ..... ...... ·-.

CONCORDIENSIS. Thrir$day. June 1,.1972 - . . * CONCORDIENSJS Letters \Don't condemn your neighbor until you've walked a mile in his moccasins.\ Jumpin' Jack Brennan MUCE MESEROLE- editor-in~bief PETER BICKER MAN, DAVID ENGEL - ass9tiate editors JOE ACH:ENBAUM- business manager GEORGE BAIN- managing editor MARK MINDEl.- sports editor DAVE CONREY -. photography editor MU(E HURLEY, !\1ARK SHULMAN- advertising TOM CONLEY - subscriptions STAFF: Tim Cain, John Quirk, Patty Sipe, Ken Gilpin, Jim Patrid Smith, R. Treat Rinear, Jr~. Gil Church, John Calender, Pat Bunn, Luke DiJlon, Bill KiJlen, Mark Campbell, M~rk Urmaa, Les Goldman •. Ruth Morton, Frank DeLucia, Joel Roslyn, Bill Holleran, Tom Hudak, Steve Manus, Rick Judd, Paul Riesc.hick, The Eaty Gourrneb, Joe Chapman, Sam Brody, Alison Sloat. Thoughts in Passing by MIKE MESEROLE In this final Concordy of the spring term and my senior year, there are a few thoughts that come to mind as I look back on four years here. My friend Lee Zehngebot, in his letter tonight, has touched on much of the folklore that has accumulated around our class, and as you read through this issue there is a lot of nostalgia filling up these twelve pages. In the absence of the conventional yearbook, which has been replaced in recent years by the artistically superb, yet sadly impersonal Union Book, the attempt has been made tonight to throw together a few of the highlights of the past four years. The five individuals that grace the front and back of this edition· seem, to. me, to sum up Union College during my stay here. In his 27 years at Union, Professor Carl Niemeyer has demonstrated a unique ability not only to teach his students but to affect them in a positive way. I have been priviledged to take several of Prof. Niemeyer's courses in English and while Ulysses continues to mystify me, Carl Niemeyer does not - he is a brilliant scholar and a wonderful person. That sounds trite as hell, but it's true and Union will miss him in both respects. Noises iD the Fieldhouse I can remember. freshman year, when a little guy from Rotterdam was making noises in the fieldhouse before the varsity basketball games. Unfortunately for the varsity, they had to wait until the following winter before Jim Tedisco could suit up for real. Unreal is more like it. Tedisco, m()re than anyone else attached to this college, made Union forget its collective problems and feel a gushing sense of old-fashioned pride. During the basketball season, this campus had an aura of magic to it and the man with the rabbit in his hat was Jim Tedis~o. I'll never forget the Hamilton home finale last February, nor the season-ending defeat at Rochester which probably showed me more of what Jim is made of than 41 points ever could. Strapped with a college administration that fancies Union as a weak sister in a hotshot athletic . conference, Jim rose above the mediocrity and, for three months every winter,. lifted the rest of us, too. In the spring of Union's great social awakening in 1970, Dori Morenstein was at the forefront of .the uprising. Freshman year we rode a lot of bench together watching soccer games with Coach Benson, but that sophomore spring Don was moved to take a strong stand against the insanity of Vietnam - a view I agreed with but the methods of which were not my style. The last two years have been ones of self...examination for Don and unlike more obvious radicals, who have long since burned themselves out or become merely boring, Morenstein's observations on life have become keener and more interesting. Getting Through French Finally, Bob Levis and Bob Ridings have given me hope that A-students and gym personnel can be much more than dull and indifferent individuals. Back when foreign languages were required, Levis helped pull me through French, but more important than that he was able to maintain the highest average in the class over four years without succumbing to the tendency to flaunt the fact. Riiiings, from his vantage point behind the cage in the gym and decked out in his Dutchman outfit at ballgames, has been a consistent source of encouragement both to the teams he has outfitted and the fans he has entertained. Like Bob Levis, Bob Ridings is an immensely likeable man and a credit to this college. All in all, it has been a rewarding four years for me at Union, both in meeting the people I consider friends and in having the chance to run this newspaper for the last ten weeks. I've tried to inject into the Con~ordy many of the characteristics that I look for in people; interest, concern, diversity and, of course, a sense of humor. If you enjoyed it, I'm gl~d. Eulogy ..... I read your very str(lllg, and very logical and very well written letter last week and realized that you must love your wife very much. I don't know you and I don~t know Paula, so please, don't take anything that I'm .going to say personally. Brian let me remind you wltat this school was like four years ago. There were no girls. There was a language requirement, a physical education requirement, a beanie requirement, and time-to-get-rid-of-your-girlfriend require- · · ment. There was no soda mac,hine in West College (a bunch of the guys. went on a hunger strike to get that) a.nd the food was actuaUy worse than it is now .. · Sixty percent (not twenty or thirty) but sixty percent of this entire school belonged to fraternities! Why, we actually believed that Harold C. Martin was on our side! So, what I'm trying to say Brian, is that old U'Coi was a helluva lot different four years ag() and th<>se of us who have ~tuck it out these four long years feel a little uncomfortable about you.r wife, who never stood up in Memorial Chapel to join in that thunderous YEA!, who never burnt her b~nie,. who never thrilled: tQ that glorious win over Williams, who never hitched to Skidmore on Rt. SO some rainy night, who never sat around the gym waiting for someone to call her name .off, who never was a lonely, drunken, horny, overworked freshman at Union, to get up on our last day here and represent all the things we've been through. Don't get me wrong Brian. rm not some \rah-rah\ Union senior who sheds a tear for the passing of \old Uruon. 1 ' Tony Faga and the boys may try to recapture its style but they will never regain its · substance (if it ever had any). Yet, as someone said to me, it's really a gut issue and I can't give you any clear-cut, logical explanation for the way I feel. But I know, come Saturday, when your wife gets up there to speak, I know I'm gollJla feel that there's something wrong. Well, Brian, that's enough. My. classmates will never come to any agreement on who they want to speak; everyone is afraid Mark Cov~n will gtab the microphone and say something radical like \peace is good.\ Yes, the old Union is dead (and probably a piece of me with it); long live the new Union! And yet 1 can't help thinking that maybe, just maybe, it deserves some last kind of eulogy. And how can I expect Pa11la to give it? She doesn't even know that something has died. Take care, Lee M. Zetmgebot '72 Secret Code As hard-workiqg, peace-loving, God- fearing, fingei-lickin', flesh-eating members of the Union College Community, we have spent the past year in joyful harmony and respectful devotion to the spirit and ideals of Union College in our humble abode at 864 Union Street. The great majority of us will be leavirig scintillating and soporific Schenectady come June 10 and we will be breaking up . (it's so very hard to do) the old homestead. shortly after the last degree and handshake are given. But for all of us, those remaining and those departing, Union College will live forever in our hearts. Like the Grecian who dreams of the sacred stream, we will sing out lasting hytnrts to the small paradise that gleams like a costume jewelry diamond from Graubert's in a world that grows darker everyday. To honor the hallowed halls of learning where will lived and grew in those tepid days and limpid nights; , we have unanimously agreed to give· something back to the institution that gave us so much. Therefore being of somewhat sound minds, we hereby bequeath to the Community-at-large (and Mr. Ed in particular) a large, handsome, bogus wood C'oncordiensls 1s ru~h~n~d e'er~ Wc:dncsda) dunng the Spring 1.-rm. cx.:cpt dunn~ cxarninilttlm and vacation periods. 11! the student ·hod} tll \ • ni<IO C\oll~ge. Edi10rittl tlft'iccs ate loeall'd <In the sec1md floor of the Geolo,~J!' Building o\.·O:r the Rathskcllat. Publication office: W~rld Publications. 771 State Street. Sc:henet:tad). N.Y .• 12)07 .. R;:pmented fin national • ad\'ertliing _ hr Sational Educiniunal Advenisins Scrv~. Inc. College. Publishtr,· Repteientative. 360 l..e\inston A\'C, lll;e•· ·York ('it}. Second dw postaiC pjid .. ' ~i • · 'Scbl!nec:md}'; N.Y. and formica table that was handcrafted by a palsied artisan (currently enjoying an Stihscription rat~: :!lie po:r 1s~uc. $1<.00 .r~r }.:ar: · • · ) · h do:h\ercd ann,hcre '\ the ·t:nitcd Stiues. Subscnpti<'n administratiVe position dunng t e great ,,rd.·r~. mid.;liwahlc n1pi•os. and cha!l!l~ uf address blackout of 1965. Along with this fine rmtict:S ~h.,uld be rilaik'<l Hl the m•wsp:ajler at llnion example of Yankee knowhow and lack of (\,IJego:. Sch~it~caad~. :'\.Y .• I:!~OK Tdeph,mes: area bladder mastery, we are presenting ten cude S 1 K. Puhlisho:r: 346-2356. Ediulr~ln..Chief: 346· • • bl b 1 h · f h 9.\.W. !liews. ~:diWial, and hullin~~Ss oftic~~S: :J7CJ-61SS. stum1tng conVert! e, tu u ar c all's o t e )1Q.;MS6. l.t!tto:n Ill the E4itor unci Blilhe( $hould M finest ~crap metal. t)]ic:d. doub!Mp.aced. wr!ntn in En111illh (or a This humble gift will be presented at a · fl!'a'tlruablo:. fllC»imik ther«~O. and to the· pOinL. UitltP black tie Mtet School Snack (a change of Ji•.....t, ~tmilals rem;...,..nt.:•h\ opinions. of the ...titUN , · · • ... ..~) h. · ·'' t.h N ,., 1· ,tf'c:.car ... i.'ir.: -· ~._.,.\ t\··· · · ··_ ·\r' · · pants ts reqtureu onortng . e atl(Jna Guard, and their big hits; and the vigilant search for perfe<:tion of the Maintenance Dep;utment The ceremony will take·ptace June U, 1972 in the front foyer of the Arts Building at \l2:j).Q·.;cnoon. Refreshments,. prepated by Mfs •. ' Ma~ioY -~nd her pe()ple, will be. served. The new . ProVQSt wm also be introduceq. Regrets <,>nly. Once again, we pled~ out lives, out fOJ;tqnes, and our secret code rings to out Alma Mater. We lift '\.our hands, paws, and. pseudopods to all of you~ Excretorily, Debby Blair Mark 'Bpylan Mary John, ·Boylan Phil Galdston Peggy Kauffman Doil!lld Robertson Grace Sardell Peter Tarsbis Damien. Ti'iouleyre C~arol Vaughn Kathie 'Win~bestet Krypto Razotski M~izyDae Cuchulain Baile HorJce Win~h~ter l'oy~!Jlair Flet~l.!e,. and Zenobilt' Templeton the Rat Faculty Allies We would like to take this opportunity to coinmend and sincerely thank those members of the faculty that supported any of the proposals on the recent referendum. We, as students, believe that these proposals will begin to m()ve.the college in a direction that il! beneficial to all concerned. We are encouraged to find members of the faculty who share our goals and hope that we can continue to work together towards them. Thanks. Richard A. Siegel BobPiaskov Bruce Mctaughlin GreggLuntz Clambakings The brothers of Sigma Chi are glad to reportthat the results of our fourth annual Spring Fever Clambake have allowed us to contribute $850 to the children of Wallace Village., To this success we owe many thanks to our community sponsors, to the people of WRUC who contributed their efforts pnselfishly f~>r the third consecutive year, and, aho:\Te all, to the Union College community for the strong support we have always received.. This $850 contribution surpasses that made by any other Sigma Chi chapter in the country last year. We feel this is a great tribute to the responsiveness and social conscience of such a. relatively small community. Again, thank you on our behalf, and especially on behalf of the children of Wallace Village. The Brbthers of Sigma Chi A Rave We would just like to thank Mike Meserole for giving us a term made special: by the innovations, ideas, and Wit expressed m this term's edition of the Concordiensis. He alone took us from the boredom of the dry and uninteresting preceeding issues, subject to Leapin Leiderman's rantings, and let us laugh again, made us wa11t to pick up Concord; again. Mike you had fun, the paper w~ .beautiful and its readers were thf beneficiary of it all. Thanks for a great job ,_, .. · : _,:;t;.-.,~B~9thers of (;hi PE 'll . ¥1 ,., \ ... <t. ,.\Jl. ·) ... ~, ·t:; ..., \ ;.. :.1> I. I) tl ~ ·~ \' ,. • • • •• .. • <il e • A Sep Nie1 lout me.r Dep quit yo1~1 MaJ bee( mytl takil Nott Rot1 hunc curie affai war retUl plac( Duri not 1 but Dep1 the < Chai Hum Li1 chain comm Beta pillars had a the H Fa cult most 1 Facult Hi cult chose exerci! Union have e like hi one o: define course the a< who· someti1 in the Union; -must o In 1 somewl surviva becaus1 from t availab of thoE college good 01 was det climb t, those v progra11 English introdu1 Examin had the admissi1 schools universi a co lie exceUen member largest progratt only by safeguar to ga indepenc he fougl believe conclud1 touch~d its great Carl 1' That ltUI and wat have be~ (

.. CONCORDIEPSIS, Thursday. June 1, 1972 s Carl Niemeyer Blackness at Union by Wm. M. MURPHY thrown away in recent years lias A few months ag(:) it was hardly been his doing. Septembe!', 1946; and Carl Former students of course will Niemeyer and I me.t ·in the old remember him principally as a ~,1 DAVID J. SNIDER During my four years at Union College the debates a!)out the · Black presence at Union have centered around a common theme: Black students are a protllem and threaten the value of a Union College educatio~. Therefore we must move slowly and. take .great care that we not let Union be soiled by too much Blackness. ·· 'Those who would protect Union from the stains of Blackness assume that whites can learn nothing from Blacks. Yet some of us feel that Union whites need Blacks here more than Blacks need Union. The Gifts of Blackness lounge in Bailey Hall as new teacher and a scholar. Those who members o.f the Ertgli:s:h studied the Modern Novel, or Department. He vvas then not Joyce, or the Hero under him quite forty; I many years will not be surprised to learn that yot~nger. Now sudderuy it is the late Professor Frederick L. May, 1972, and he is about to Gwyn~ of Trinity College, who become a legend; part of the had himself studied under John mYthology of Union College . Livingston Lowes, Fred N .. taking his . pJace With. Eliphalet . Robinson, and . Douglas Bush, Nott, :Spike . Jlafe, : . and. Joe· ~ told me that of all the teachers he Rotundo. I suspect that ·a had ever listened to Carl hundred year$ fro 1 n now ·some· Niemeyer was the best. We have curious Gibbon, cb:ronicljng the an been the beneficiaries of Carl's affairs ·of the- college .~ the post- annual collections of student war period, will find- .himself bloopers; but more memorable returning a,gain and' agaltt to the and significant have been his place Qf Cad Niemeyer il;l them. 'contributions to scholarship, Not During his time. here he served surprisingly. in the light of his not only as Professor of English other academic ac~ivities, these but as Chairm 1 m of- the have ~een few rather than many. Department, as representative to ~Jut, hke the other objects of his the old Faculty Council, and as handiwork, they are perfect of Chairman of the Division of t~eir kind. It is perhaps not . Humanities; and he was also · Wtdely known that ~s brilliant One of the best statements of what whites can learn from Blacks is Vincent Harding's .. The Gift of Blackness.\ He speaks of a \gift in terms of the tough, trembling world, such freedom is hammered-out, often brutal surely a gift, for it is the freedom experience which nevertheless to care.\ numbers large enough to provide them the security and group consciousness essential to their on William ,.,__.,_.=- Lined up fat 1951 Publications Board picture are Prof Niemeyer(on the left) and Prof Murphy (on the .right). of the Flies, a minor classic, has been incorporated into standard t.exts and is read all over the world. Underlying all his work, it seems to me, scholarly, academic, and pedagogical, has been an insistence on excellence, a virtue he might merely desire in others but which he has always demanded of himself. If Union should survive, I think the example which he set of pursuing excellence is what her sons and daughters will remember. It is no little thing to be remembered for. William M. Murphy is a Professor of English at Union. _produces a new reality, a new Black &lld White reality that may benefit the entire at Union Today .. · society and the entire world.\ Last term~s experience of the · · ·Included in the gifts of Black and white students and Blackness, he says, are the gift of teaching team in The American distinguishing between the true Future in Black and White (CEd. . spirits and the false, and the gift !I) .supports Harding's claim that of compassion. whites · need the gifts of The gift of distinguishing Blackness. Many white students · between the true spirits and the enrolled in the course because false is \the gift of reading and they had come from white telling the American story as it is, ghettos that provided no not as it is Written in most of our opportunity for knowing Black textbooks on' political · science people. These whites were sharp ~nd history.\ Because Blacks enough to know that whiteness is have been denied the benefits of not all there is to life. They American life, they are now free ·sought and found confrontations to help America face the bitter with Blacks. truths about our whiteness, such One result of this process was as the massacres of the Indians, an increased sensitivity to the the continuing oppression of inadequacy of even the best of American Blacks, and policies white institutions. The new that oppress other non-white openness that Blacks helped to peoples in Vietnam, Latin shape .in these whites enables ·America, and· Mrica. The gift of ·some ~f them to see America's reading and telling the American domestic and foreign policies - story as it is frees Blacks to be , mu.ch more critically. These more compassionate in relation :-\httes ha_ve been able to rejoice to other oppressed people of the . ~n the gtfts . of Bla.c~~e.ss that world who suffer under mcrease thetr posstbthttes for American military and economic compassion for the humiliated of power. · the world. And that means that . Harding says, \Our position as they se~ the ~eed . fo.r ~asic b!ack people in American society . ~hanges m ~menc~~ mstltuttonal gtves us a perspective on this life and f~retgn pohctes. society and on this world that The ktnd of openness and makes it possible for us to be free confrontation that occurred in from the deadly narrowness of that class were unusual at Union white American nationalism and College. A key factor was the self-righteousness. In this kind of presence of Black students in chairman of innumerable committees and President of Phi Beta Kappa. He was one of the pillars of the Hale Club, wheri we had a Hale Club; a luminary of the Faculty Club, when we had a Faculty Club; and one of the most thoughtful members of the F!:!-culty, in the days when the Faculty had power, which it chose to' surrender rather than exercis'e. Few members of the Union community in his time ~ave ~x;ercised an influence quite bke his; and. I am happy to be one of the first to attempt to define it. In discussing him of course I have no wisn io derogate the accomplishments o,f others who· also performed well, sometimes side by side with him . ' m the pursuit of an improved Union; but in this brief note I The Class of 1976 -must overlook them. In 1946 Union was a small som~what easy-going college, it~ survtval perhaps guaranteed only because in those days money from the G.I. Bill was freely available. Carl Niemeyer was one of those who saw that a small college could only become a good one if it raised its sights and was determined to begin the Iortg climb to the top. He was one of those who worked for a strong program for the major in the English Department and for the introduction of Major Field Examinations, developments that had their effect ultimately on the admissions offices of araduate schools in even the best universities. He believed also that a college could only achieve exceUence generally if the members of its faculty had the largest voice in its educational program, and be realized that only by establishing procedural safeguards could the faculty hope to gain a measure o.f independence. For aU these ends he fought and fought well; and I believe our future Gibbon will conclude that Union may have touch~d the highest point of all its greatness during the years of Carl Niemeyer's prominence. That many of the gains he saw and was partly resp()nsible for have been eroded or ,deliberately j total in that group, which in turn had stood as the Union high. Academically, this Class reflects a definite policy decision by the Admissions Committee. We have traditionally placed greater emphasis on the secondary school academic record than on College Board scores. Thi& year, however, the emphasis was made even more .distinct and College Boards were considered only when they were extremely low. or extremely high. As a result the Col1ege Board averages have dropped slightly from last year, to a VSA T 593 and MSAT 639. The average class standing of the group is above that of last year's class, with 74% ranking in the top 20% of the secondary school class. Eighteen Black -students have enrolled for the Fall and I would have to list that as my major disappointment in the Class. We have, however, with the assistance of the Black Students' Alliance, initiated plans to strengthen our minority recruiting program. Apologies are due to Coach Walters. There 'is not,. to our knowledge, another Jim ledisco in the Class. there is, however, a 6'7\ center. Try it, you'll like itlr Jay Shupe iS the Director of AdmissitJns at 'Union. · . !·. .. ·''\ ... articulation of the gift of discerning tl;le false spirits from the true spirits in white America, past and present. Their readiness to confront .all whites, including those of us on the teaching team, kept a high level of tension among us for over half the term. Yet by the end of the term we had begun to hear each other across the chasms created by over three hundred years of white racism. It is a real let.down to go from such a class into one that is all white. However, . the size of Union's Black p~pulation insures that few classes will have a large number of Black students .. Therefore, most Union College students· and professors are denied the gifts of Blackness which some of us experienced from January to March. The Roots of Union's Whiteness Why are the majority of Union students and professors denied the gifts of Blackness? Do we fail to do the things necessary to get and keep a large number of Black students, faculty, and administrators because we enjoy living in a white ghetto? Who prefers more Blacks if it means lower board scores? Who wants more Blacks if it means that teachers would have to get in touch with the Black experience in America and give up their nearly total allegiance to white professional societies as the measure of academic excellence? Who wants more Blacks if that means ordinary green grass in Library Plaza instead of expensive, multiple plantings of flowers? Who wants more Blacks if it had meant no $25;000 Union A venue gate? Who wants more Blacks if it had meant no new trees. planted across campus this spring? Who wants more Blacks if it meant no money to paint the Humanities and Social Sciences buildings grey? (One learns muc11 about trustees who can find money for this project to bathe Libraby Plaza in drab sameness but can find little money to introduce the new color and life- styles that more Blacks would bring to Union. Perhaps the trustees are just being consistent. Union should be a one-color school - in buildings and in the complexions and experiences of administrators, students, and professors.) In short, who wants more Blacks at Union if that means that Union is challenged to change? A Vision of Pluralism Yet there is another vision of Union. The new vision is a Union which seeks and rejoices in the challenging presence of the gifts of Blackness and which eagerly wrestles with the issues that these gifts thrust Upon our white traditions. That suoh a Union is not an unreal dream is suggested - ~co~tin'ueti .on Page 8

.6 Gallery 'lhese innoctnt visages appeared at Union four years ago. See how many you can match with these names: Richard J. Bohenek, Gilbert P. Church Jr., Philip E. Goldston, Duncan M. Guild, Stephen W. Hannah, Michael S. Kumpf, Stephen P. Manus, Shawn M. Martin,. Michael J. Mistretta, Robert Mistretta, Bryant P. Moeckel, Charles A. Newton, Robert J. Pezzano, Mark D. Sanderson, Daniel R. Shacket, and Peter R. Tarshis. ... . .. Fre,-h:~•n·. Demon~. Fte.~d6.m . . DoWn M' c The \death of the freshman class\ and it~ joining With the communi,ty, .an undef!Jled. group at Union, was proclaimed Sunday night when 40 students, a\!lout half:.. of them frosh, gathered at ~e college tl~gpole for a demonstra-tion and burning of fteshmen. beanies . . Freshman Don Bosch of Garden Ctty., Long Island, read. to a crowd of freshmen and t,l,pperclass.men a statement ~clarilig. \om freedom from repressiOn at Union College is ass~rted. thro11gh this tlemonstration of umty Wtth upperclassmen.\ · The gathering was organized by a group calling themselves The · Community. The appeal for unity stated the · ru I e s of the college force the separation of students, especially freshmen. The latter must eat tog~ther '. wear beanies together' and until this year lived in the same dormitories. One of about 20 ~esluneo denounces c'lass distinction in Sunday's bearueoburning. (excerpts from the Union College Handbook - 1932-33) 3 Traditions are not created in a moment, but rather are the product of years. It is only natural, therefore, that out of the long history of Union there should spring a number of customs and practices that are observed from year to year by the students, until those procedures have assumed an important place in College life, The entire student body meets iri the Chapel every Monday for elective and legislative purposes. All students have voting power, but freshmen are not granted the privilege of the floor. The meetings ate presided over by the ' president of the senior class. Perhaps the best tradition at Union is the friendly intercourse between the students and the faculty. Many of these lighter traditions center around the Idol, a large stone Chinese image, that was given to the College many · years ago by the distinguished missionary and alumnus, J. W. Farnham, ;56. This image, of course, is not an idol but is one of a pair of .. guardians\ placed in the front of many official buildings in China. The College officials who had expected a small idol were somewhat at loss as to what to do with the large image and for a number of years its rather somber bulk occupied an unimportant position on the campus. One night some students with an eye for color if not for art painted the Idol. Other · students improved upon it and changes in the Idol's hue became frequent. Finally the College authorities moved the Idol to a secluded spot and abandoned it to the mercies of the students who made it a center of the fall initiation of the freshmen. It now stands at the rear of the gymnasium. The traditional punishment inflicted upon freshmen who fail to recite the Alma Mater is a haircut at the hands of the sophomores. Jackson's Garden, in which stands Nott Elm is the traditional scene of Class day exercises. Around Nott Elm, a native forest tree standing in a grassy sunken circle, the senior class gathers for the class .day exercises. Jackson's Garden is named in honor of Professor Isaac W. Jackson of the class • of 1825 who created this attractive spot on the Union Campus. An interesting anecdote is associated with the adoption of garnet as Union's color. Both Harvard and Union had entered an intercollegiate boat race and both had chosen magenta as their official color. Naturally this condition could not exist and there was much official and unofficial debate to determine which intitutution should have magenta. Union finally yielded. the claim and adopted the rich garnet color. Hatvard, however, having ~ttained the right to magenta .adopted crimson, which now serves as a syoonymfor the name of that venerable institution. Spring Night is held annually just before Commencement. The interfraternity and interclass singing contests take place under the Nott Elm in Jackson'~ Garden. The winning class is awarded possession of the Ludlow Melius cup, and the best fraternity receives the Frank Parker Day cup. When this trophy has been won three thnes, the fraternity gains permanent possession of the CU}>. . 196 71 CAMPUS RULES ' : \' Greet l Formulated by tbe Terrace Council, , ,meeting t Revised by the Student Council, and -$.,eets of I Adopted by tbe Student Body Attend 1. The official freshman hats must ~e c meetings, worn in this .city on all occasions until Do you Moving~Up Day. Exceptions are Sundays, own thin~ Thanksgiving~ Cht:istmas and Spri~g •· Golf st vacations~,·Junior Week.and all out-of- ·pipe do n town trips of college organizations. that your 2. All freshmen must be able to repeat daily attir any verse of the Alma Mater wlie'Jl 3 Go out ~equired to do so. · must dev 3. Mustaches may be worn by men in universiti1 their junior or se.nior year. . c Do Ii( 4. Freshmen' ate · allowed to smote upperclas nothing except corn-cob· pipes in the not clear· campus or streets of Schenectady. This Don't ' rule includes all places on the campi!s • decrdasin except fraternity houses, professors' Be on houses and dormitories. opporturt 5. All freshmen must greet If you upperclassmen or sophomores first wh¥n ~ make yc meeting thein on the campus or street. Student ( 6. Freshmen are to remain seated in Do not chapel until the three upper classes ha~e -..will refle passed out. . college. 7. Freshmen must show proper respect You ar to upperclassmen at all times. parents e N. B. Rule 4 does not hold durilrg ,. returns ol Christmas and Spring vacations. you. Justi ADVICE TO FRESHMEN ~ The transition from preparatory schoq! 8 to college is a difficult step for the average (excerpts student since he comes into an entirely Stude11 new environment. A word of confidential advice, therefore, may not be amiss to th>: student who is entering. .£! believes t Rem!;!mber, Freshmen: Learn the Freshman rules at once ang . , t follow them conscientiously. Learn the Alma Mater and all songs and cheers at tJl,e earliest opportunity. which ~ prepare College,: stand no and cont judging t

6 Gallery These innocent visages appeared at Union four years ago. See how many you can match with these names: Richard J. Bohenek. Gilbert P. Church Jr.. Philip E. Goldston, Duncan M. Guild, Stephen W. Hannah, Michael S. Kumpf, Stephen P. Manus, Shawn M. Martin, Michael J. Mistretta, Robert Mistretta, Bryant P. Moeckel, Charles A. NeH!lon, Robert J. Pezzano, Mark D. Sanderson, Daniel R. Shocker, and Peter R. Tarshis. '::!.• i Freshmen Demand Freedom ll !' At Flagpole Beanie-Buining f ~e. \~e.ath ~f the freshman class\ ~ and ttSJOllllllg wtth the community, an unde~med group at Union, was proclauned Sunday night when 40 students, about half of them frosh, gathered at the college flagpole for a ,! demonstration and burning of ~ freshmen beanies . . Freshman Don Bosch of Garden City, Long Island, read to a crowd of f1 freshmen and upperclassmen a ~ statement declaring \•·'llf frco.:d·um from repression at. Union College is ass~rted. through thiS demonstra~ion of un1ty With upperclassmen.\ The gathering was organized by a group calling themselves The · Community. The appeal for unity stated the :.' ruln nf tht• L<~ikl,;c fur-;~ th~ lj separa!Jon of students, especially ' freshmen. The latter must eat 1-. tog~ther '. wear beanies together, and !J until . thiS year lived in the same r• dornutones. I One of about 20 freshmen denounces class dhtinction in Sunday's !JeanU.buming. The A leo Fire, spring 1969. (excerpts from the Union College Handbook- 1932·33) 3 Traditions are not created in a moment, but rather are the product of years. It is only natural, therefore, that out of the long history of Union there should spring a number of customs and practices that are observed from year to year by the students, until those procedures have assumed an important place in College life. The entire student body meets in the Chapel every Monday for elective and legislative purposes. All students have voting power, but freshmen are not granted the privilege of the floor. The meetings are presided over by the president of the senior class. Perhaps the best tradition at Union is the friendly intercourse between the students and the faculty. Many of these lighter traditions center around the Idol, a large stone Chinese image, that was given to the College many years ago by the distinguished missionary and alumnus, J. W. Farnham, '56. This image, of course, is not an idol but is one of a pair of \guardians\ placed in the front of many official buildings in China. The College officials who had expected a small idol were somewhat at loss as to what to do with the large image and for a number of years its rather somber bulk occupied an unimportant position on the campus. One night some students with an eye for color if not for art painted the Idol. Other students improved upon it and changes in the Idol's hue became frequent. Finally the College authorities moved the Idol to a secluded spot and abandoned it to the mercies of the students who made it a center of the fall initiation of the freshmen. It now stands at the rear of the gymnasium. k==>u<:=::::::x•k==~ The traditional punishment inflicted upan freshmen who fail to recite the Alma Mater is a haircut at the hands of the sophomores. Jackson's Garden, in which stands Nott Elrn is the traditional scene of Class day exercises. Around Nott t:Im,a native forest tree standing in a grassy sunken circle, the senior class gathers for the class day exercises. Jackson's Garden is named in honor of Professor Isaac W. Jackson of the class · of 1825 who created this attractive spot on the Union Campus. ,.==~J<==>n<==>e An interesting anecdote is associated with the adoption of garnet as Union's color. Both Harvard and Union had entered an intercollegiate boat race and both had chosen magenta as their official color. Naturally this condition could not exist and there was much official and unofficial debate to determine which intitutution should have magenta. Union finally yielded the claim and adopted the rich garnet color. Harvard, however, having attained the right to magenta adopted crimson, which now serves as a synonym for the name of that venerable institution. Spring Night is held annually just before Commencement. The interfraternity and interclass singing contests take place under the Nott Elm in Jackson'z Garden. The winning class is awarded possession of the Ludlow Melius cup, and the best fraternity receives the Frank Parker Day cup. When this trophy has been won three times, the fraternity gains permanent possession of the <JUp. £1·.·' ... ·1 u ' Greet meeting streets of Attend ' meetings Do yo own thin Golfs pipe do: that you daily atti CAMPUS RULES Formulated by the Terrace Council, Revised by the Student Council, and Adopted by the Student Body I. The official freshman hats must lloe worn in this city on all occasions until Moving-Up Day. Exceptions are Sundays, Thanksgiving, Christmas and Spri;.g' , vacations, Junior Week and all out-of- , town trips of college organizations. · 2. All freshmen must be able to repeat ( any verse of the Alma Mater wl.~n I ~equired to do so. · 1 3. Mustaches may be worn by men in. their junior or senior year. $ 4. Freshmen· are allowed to smoke nothing except corn-cob· pipes in the . campus or streets of Schenectady. This . rule includes all places on the campi!; · except fraternity houses, professors· houses and dormitories. 5. All freshmen must greet upperclassmen or sophomores first whe'n meeting them on the campus or street. 1 6. Freshmen are to remain seated in ; \~ Go ou must de universit Do n • uppercla not clear Don't • decrdasi1 Be on opportm If you 1 make y Student· Do nc will refl college. chapel until the three upper classes h~;,;>? ._ passed out. 7. Freshmen must show proper respect to upperclassmen at all times. N. B. Rule 4 does not hold durilft:: Christmas and Spring vacations. ADVICE TO FRESHMEN The transition from preparatory schoCl, 1 to college is a difficult step for the averagr student since he comes into an entire!~ new environment. A word of confidentia! advice, therefore, may not be amiss to th~ student who is entering. Remember, Freshmen: Learn the Freshman rules at once ang follow them conscientiously. Learn the Alma Mater and all songs and cheers at the earliest opportunity. You a parents • returns c you. Jus1 'iJ) (excerpt: Stude ' believes which prepar(' r College, stand nc , and cor judging

' and ~e until prii)g in the This reet v in ha~f.! ~ 'I]tutsday,. Jtnte 1, 1972 ory·Lane 1972 ' :; Greet Unic.n melt at all times when · ,meeting thent on the eampus or on the $tr'~ts of the .city. Attend st11dent bo.dy meetings, class ~ meetings, and all games. Do yol!r O\Vl) work and leatn to do your own thinking. •· Golf stockh!gs. sport shoes and a \U\ pipe do not make a colleg~ man; See to it that your daily 'Work is not ~glected for daily attire. · 3 Go out for athletics. The smaU college must develoP' nore men than the large universities. . Do not hesitate to ask advice of c upperclassmen ()n any matters which are not clear to you. Don't j'crab\. In doing so, you are only • decrdasing yo :tit popularity. Be on your toes all the time. Look for· opportunities and take advantage of them. . If you think you are unJustly treated, ~ make your grievances known to the Student Coun.clL Do not commit any indiscretions which -.. will reflect on the good name of the college. You are here t<} get an education. Your parents expect you to -show satisfactory -~ returns on the m:oney they are investing in you. Justify this faith reposed in you. 8 (excerpts froDI· the Student Life bandbook Union College 1971•72) Stutlent lbsponslbUity. Union Cellege \' believes that 1:he college years are a time in which yo\ltlg inen and women ·must preparr. · for adult responsibility. T~e College, its faculty, and his fellow students t;tand not in pl~ce of his parents, g!liding and control1i11g~ hut in place of society, judging the illdiv.idtlal by his own acts. In The 1951 Union College Golf Team. If the jf/iow in the middle looks familiar, he is Coach Clare Graves. all matters of academic and personal conduct the College stro_.gly emphasizes individual responsibility for individual acts. And, like society, the College is prepared to exact ap.propriate penalties for failure to meet the standards set for student conduct. Drug and Narcotic Use. State and Federal laws prohibiting the use, possession, possession with intent to sell and actual sale of illegal drugs are applicable on private as well as public property. Ne~tb.er the C()llege as an institution nor those Who work and study - in it are exempt. The presence of possessors or sellers on campus is a serious threat to the security and autonomy of the entire campus community. Residents will be held responsible for the general condition including cleanliness and good repair ~ of their limng quarters, and the College reserves the right to inspect student rooms as circumstances may require. The use of nails or tacks on walls, woodwork or furnishings is prohibited; pictures and posters must be attached to walls wi* masking or drafting tape, not \Scotch\ cellophane tape. Conduct in Living Units. Students must be properly attired' at all times in public areas and must conduct themselves in accordance with generally accepted rules of good behavior. The following activities and items are prohibited at all times in and around living ·Units: Gambling. Firearms and other lethal weapons, fireworks and combustibles. Heating and cookiJtg applia~ces, radio and television masts and aenals, radio transmitting equipment. Water beds. Pets. Tampering with frre alarms or fire extinguishers. Willful damage to college or priv~te property. Throwing articles from windows or storing articles oil window sills. Excessive noise. Solicitations for or sale of merchandise, services, etc., is permitted in dormitories only With special authorization of the Director of Student Aid. k=~>nc===>~~<==>~ It should be understood that the College does not condone premarital ·sexual intercourse or deviant sextil!l behavior on the Campus. In the absence of any system established by a living unit, the following hours will prevail: Sunday through Thursday - Noon to 8:00P.M. Friday and Saturday - Noon to 2:00 A.M.. . Students are encouraged to arrange well in advance of any special occasions fo1 private accommodations for visitor! expected to stay overnight in nearby hotel! or motels. Alcoholic Beverages. Alcoholi( ·beverages may be stored and served witll discretion by students over eighteen year5 of age. It is to be understood that liquox will be stored in closets or bureaus and not left on windowsills or in other open locations, both because of the presence of underage students and because it is tasteful and wise handling. When alcoholic beverages are served at parties, non-alcoholic beverages must also be provided. Gallery Honor Roll of the Departed. AI Gyurko ... Brother Fref? Will. \B•ln .. \Mac Is Dead.\ and \ Whoever Reads This. Washes This.\ Ed Gordon .•. \Flash \ r#ple F's. triple ::eroes again- Bye. Dick Nutt ... !nd Day · nurned roumir·., hernic in !.It .Frmh Jemumtratiun. · Alex Alexiou .. . li.sted in two ·freshmen r.u:ords never showed. Wayne Cbariff ... \Frat- man,\ .. Independent Man,\ \The Barra- cuda.\ l)iek Dnl!! Tedi.vco to the contrary, led Ft~sh lUJ'!P· Don Bosch . .. The Peo- ple's Choice. parents re- fused to pay bail. Noah Smooke ... un· · ceremonious~!' thrown out for suspiciow husi· ness dealing.1. Russell Dexter ... room· eel 11 ith Grur/,o, re· c o1·erinx a1 game '' ar- den on ll.farthll'\ Vin- yard. ~eorge Lonsdl)r.f \7he Prince,\ cohort of Bosch on famous hunger .~trike v.~. Sago. Steve Paine ... College Inn. danced naked at the Hub. Doug R•e ... crazy mo- ther. Adntinist rat ion Building Qra.tor.

and \ oe. until ut-of- · 1 : Wl1.:.'n t I en in. ;J! moke the . This mpl!s · '' ··~ } . wh~n !;.· 1 m; hll;,i'? l I • I th~ and ' ongs Greet Union men at all times when. meeting them on the campus or on the streets of the city. Attend student body meetings, class i meetings, and all games. Do your own work and learn to do your own thinking. , Golf stockings, sport shoes and a ··u\ pipe do not make a college man. See to it that your daily work is not neglected for daily attire. '1 Go out for athletics. The small college must develop more men than the large universities. Do not hesitate to ask advice of t. upperclassmen on any matters which are not clear to you. Don't \crab\. In doing so, you are only • decrdasing your popularity. Be on your toes all the time. Look for opportunities and take advantage of them. If you think you are unjustly treated, \l make your grievances known to the Student Council. Do not commit any indiscretions which ._ will reflect on the good name of the college. You are here to get an education. Your parents expect you to show satisfactory to returns on the money they are investing in you. Justify this faith reposed in you. ~ ~k ~k ~ ~ (excerpts from the Student Life handbook Union College 1971-72) Student Responsibility. Union College ' believes that the college years are a time in which young men and women must prepar<\ for adult responsibility. The f College, its faculty, and his fellow students stand not in place of his parents, guiding and controlling; but in place of society, judging the individual by his own acts. In ---------··- . --· ---- . -- - -·~ ___ , __ -· The 1951 Union College Go(/ Team. ({ the fellow in the middle looks familiar. he is Coach Clare Graves. all matters of academic and personal conduct the College strongly emphasizes individual responsibility for individual acts. And, like society, the College is prepared to exact appropriate penalties for failure to meet the standards set for student conduct. Drug and Narcotic Use. State an<;l Federal laws prohibiting the use, possession, possession with intent to sell and actual sale of illegal drugs are applicable on private as well as public property. Neither the College as an institution nor those who work and study - in it are exempt. The presence of possessors or sellers on campus is a serious threat to the security and autonomy of the entire campus community. Residents will be held responsible for the general condition including cleanliness and good repair - of their living quarters, and the College reserves the right to inspect student rooms as circumstances may require. The use of nails or tacks on walls, woodwork or furnishings is prohibited; pictures and posters must be attached to walls with masking or drafting tape, not \Scotch\ cellophane tape. Conduct in Living Units. Students must be properly attired at all times in public areas and must conduct themselves in accordance with generally accepted rules of good behavior. The following activities and items are prohibited at all times in and around living units: Gambling. Firearms and other lethal weapons, fireworks and combustibles. Heating and cooking appliances, radio and television masts and aerials, radio transmitting equipment. Water beds. Pets. Tampering with fire alarms or fire extinguishers. Willful damage to college or private property. Throwing articles from windows or storing articles on window sills. Excessive noise. Solicitations for or sale of merchandise, services, etc., is permitted in dormitories only with special authorization of the Director of Student Aid. k ~~ ~k ~ It should be understood that the College does not condone premarital ·sexual intercourse or deviant sexu~l behavior on the Campus. In the absence of any system established by a living unit, the following hours will prevail: Sunday through Thursday - Noon to 8:00P.M. Friday and Saturday - Noon to 2:00 A.M . Students are encouraged to arrange well in advance of any special occasions f01 private accommodations for visiton expected to stay overnight in nearby hoteh or motels. X ~~ ~X ~ Alcoholic Beverages. Alcoholic beverages may be stored and served witl: discretion by students over eighteen years of age. It is to be understood that liquor will be stored in closets or bureaus and not left on windowsills or in other open locations, both because of the presence of underage students and because it is tasteflll and wise handling. When alcoholic beverages are served at parties, non-alcoholic beverages must also be provided. Gallery Honor Roll of the Departed. AI Gyurllo ... IJruther Free Wt/1, \8-ln.\ .. /t4ac 1.1 Dead... and \Whuever Read.1 7hi.l. Washes This.\ Ed Gordon .. . ··Fla., h . .. rnjJ!t• F\. triple ::crew' again - Bt t'. llirl.. '\ ut! .' ' .. j , ' ' 'II' , ft ') J. • f ,' .'I ~1 ,'. Alex Alexiou ... listed in l wo ·freshmen records nn·er showed. Wayne Chariff ... \Frat- man.\ \Independent Man,\ \The Barru- cuda.\ .,~··~~:~~ J '_~, Dick Davis ... Tedisco to the contrary, led Frosh hoop. Don Bosch The Peo· pic\ Chc•ice. parent1 re- /uwd ro f'UI had Noah Smooke . . . un· n•relll< mi< >UIIr thn ''' 11 our for ,.lH{'ici<lll' hull- tie 1.1 dea /i ng'. ./. ,, \,' .'' 1•.: j I' ~ til' I . , .•. ~'·~:.~ George Lonsdor.f ... \The Prince, \ cohort of Bosch un famous hunger strike vs. Saga. Steve Pain!.' . ColleKe Inn. dan. ed naked ar tlte Huh Doug Rae ... crazy mo- ther. Administration Building orator.

8 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, June 1, 1972 c·onversation with Jack Brennall Continued from Page 3 ~f course, I have a daughter in they load the trucks, and do you beautiful slides and we travelled CONCORPY: One of the things high school so I couldn't go to know before I'm out of bed all through Europe, and when we that intrigues most of us is the Florida for a month or two. Next· tomorrow mot~ing the stuff is came back here and after twenty jargon that is used back there _ year when both our children are. delivered here. The roll man yeats in the Rotary Club, they whale fry, cackle dinner_ could in col}ege.my wife and I will be: comes down o-n Saturday wa,nted me to ~how my slides and you, give ·us a rundown of the traveling m tbe motor hpme. I i morning, with the regular bakery speak on Europe. So I spoke on abbreviations you use? feel I am the wealthiest man in truck you see at a supermarket, it, and I showed mY .slides, and BRENNAN: I think 1 can answer New York St~te - and right he comes down with a half a they saw everyting frmn Rome to that very easy for you. If I came away quick that'.s an awful thing truckload of rolls, and he Paris, etc., and you know after it over to Union College tonight to say, but I don't mean money, I unlo11.ds them in the warehouse was over I asked if there were with you guys I think there'd be a mean in time, I (:onsider time and he takes the other half truck any questions, and one of the. lot of your language that'd be wealth. How many times have and peddles his route. He finishes good Rotarians stood up, and hard for me to take~ you know, you, Mr. and Mrs. America, said' 1 his route around three o'clock, said ·~Yes,. I have a question, \You're not hackin' it Ja.c~.·· _ to your. wi.~e, your gir~riend, and be goes back to the bakery, Jack. Out of all of your trips to you know what 1 mean? l'd be your family, If I had the tune we all done, except they have Europe, what d!d you learn the shakin' my old head and could have done this, we could another full truck filled with rolls most?\ and I hesitated, and I won<!erin' what was goin~ on. have done that - if we only had for Jumpin' Jacks. He gets in the said, \rU teD you e~actly how 1 Well, that's just about what's time\ .,..,.._ After being born and· truck, drives it down here, leaves feel.. What I learned most in goin' on here, It's because my brought up on 100 hours. a week it,. and goes home. And he picks E1,1rope is to appreciate the employees are six, seven, four I never knew any different - to it up Monday morning, empty. United States, and because you five six seven years with me. It's have 6 months V!!Cation a year,' CONCORDY: One thing I was men, myself included, moan and hard to say but I'm bl~ssed - I for twenly years so far now, .sort wondering, do you know when squawk about this tax and that think a lot ·of my success is of what you call half your time, Union College is in sess~on, do tax, and I'm with YoU, but since because of my help, and it's even though I. work a~ul hard you sense the business is coming? I've been to Europe and seen because of these fellows - they the first 6 • 1 thmk that s a lot of·. BRENNAN: You are absolutely what people don't pay in taxes, have one happy time, and I think wealth. And 1 want to pro!ect right, and I'll tell you, I can tell, and to England, where the people we here at Jumpin' Jack's, we put t~at wea~th, the wealth of tu~e because of my supper hour pay more taxes than we have, the Captial \M\ in Morale. I pay 1 m. talkmg about, money-w.Jse starting at the normal five thirty, and see what they've got higher than other guys, that is a obvtously I have e~ough to hve the line, I think you Union boys compared to our way of living main reason, yes. I let good men °~.' . an~ 1 . , don t envy the must be chow hounds, because here, and l agree our way of that produce go into overtime mtlhon~Jr~s, 1 ve never h~d any you Union boys will pull in living here, our government is and I've got one of your Union better hvmg t~an what I ve got around four, four thirty, or not 100% smooth, but with all College men here and I\ve had now, and I don t look forward to around ten o'clock at night our troubles, our troubles are several Union College men here anything better, and one of t~e they'll haul over here and they'll small compared to what·they are and with their studies and [.eUows up at the golf club said eat like horses. I've been very elsewhere. You've got to, shall I . everything they'll make 75 dollars Jac.k, :,ou should have. a grateful for Ullion CoU~ge say ••non't · condemn your a week, and I got other fellows C?adtllac, ~nd I need a Cadd~ac · business. Here's a tape made at neighbor until you've walked a here drawing 450 dollars a week bke a hole 10 the head. My Bmck \Union College about Jumpin' mile in his moccasins.\ Ddr\'t on down. I don't want you to has been the best car I ever had !Jacks- for the radio station - condemn the United States until think I'm a Santa Claus, no I'm you've seen the grass on the other not, the boys give me what I pay side of the water, and then when for. But, getting back to your you come back you'll appreciate question, instead of a fish fry it. And I'm not a flag waver, and they'll call it a whale fry. I went I know everything is not in over there last year, and I heard complete harmgny in our the guy takin' orders: \Two fish, government, but I know it's a three clams, give me three 707's.\ whale of a lot better. Finally, I went to the manager, CONCORDY: Have you ever and I said \Nothin' wrong, the had any funny things happen money's coming in fine, the lines here? · are going fine, but what Jn the BRENNAN: I don't know, hell is a 707?\ \Oh he says, there's a let of humor in the kids. \Those are chicken dinners.\ Every year they alv.-:ays ask me \Well why do you call it a 707?\ what I'm going to do different and he says, \Well it's got wings, next year, my gosh, I have to do doesn't it?\ At my age, at 57, something, change the color on these kids, they drive me crazy! I the building or something, love it. Especially at the noon b~cause they expect it. I'm hour, when there are a lot of constantly putting in more and G.E. people, a lot of secretaries, more equipment and things like kids from the park in bathing that but now with the new bridge suits, you'll hear .that guy giving Les Kernan it's going to have a complete orders, \Two steak dinners, two lhe Eaty Gourmets; Bob Michaelson (left).qnd Emo Martin right lane yield into here. I used fish dinners, one 707 ,\ and all of (right) dive into an ice cream with Jump in' Jack Brennan. to squawk about Rocky -.- now I a sudden he'll turn around and gotta help him! I didn't know it yell, \One 88!\ And when he yells in my whole life, and I never had to the tune of \Cross Over the was going in until I saw the plans \88\ every employee turns anything better and it's good Bridge.\ T~Y. ran it on your of the bridge. You see, I'll tell around because there's something enough for me. But to me that's Union College radio. I had . you another thing, why was I there worth looking at! These where I consider my wealth, in ·things, ads,· in your overconscious or overboard in fellows really take the dullness time. At the end of September, Coneordiensis. giving out tremendous quality at out of my day! when I'm kind of tired, out of CONCORDY: How do you feel a very fair price, why keeping CONCORDY: Have you ever gas, and I'm doing 7 days, 7 about the hot dog tax in New this place so clean and why thought about enclosing and nights here all summer long, - I York State - is that a pain in keeping the element of boys I doing a winter business? will ad~it now you'll find me the neck for you people here? have here ~ I explained to you BRENNAN: That is a goodmissingl1:30,12:00,l'mheading BRENNAN: You must aboutmysoninBrown-hehas question. But I want to tell you ·for the golfcourse, I golf 5 days a remember, that I personally his hair down to his shoulders one thing - This is a wonderful week, I've earned my freedom, naturally would be against it, - and he won't be working here business, it's all cash, no and I'm back at 5:30, 6:00 every now we're talking about the four unless he cuts it. This has l>een a acccrunts receivable, so therefore evening, after a dinner with my per cent tax on anything under a standard rule here at Jumpin' people who have charge accounts family, and I'm here for the dollar, anything over a dollar Jack's for ten years- shall I say in business., they get lip to their evening. I'm here until midnight. was all right, but when they put long before long hair was even ears in debt because of the people Midnight my managers bring my that tax in, the revenue that I thought of - we were all in owing them - I have none of inventory in to me, I'll compute send in to the ·government is crewcuts - but it says here, rules those problems. It has its the inventories, as to what we've tremendous - I swear they must and regulations of Jumpin' Jack's headaches, too, but you must got on hand, what we've sold have a warehouse to keep all of it -Paragraph Number l does not remember, not now because I today, I'll be watching that from the hot dog tax. because ask where have you worked, have have managers, I'm' buying my television ~ght there for the there is a tremendous amount of you got any experience in drive- freedom now, but I, 100 hours weather tomg.ht.and as soon as I increase I have paid- I am glad ins, no, the first paragraph says, was a normal week for me for see the prediction of what the to pay it, because I am doing the \Appearance and personality are al!f~OSt ~en years, 7 day$, 7 nights, w~athe~'s ?oing to .be :- you. may business, just as I am glad to pay the main requisites of your job - veyy seldom had any evenings off thmk I m m the dnve-m busmess, the taxes on my home, which appearance means clean shaven, .:_ I'm not complaining - I p1.1t but I've got ne~s for you, I'm in · have gone up and up and up, but neat haircuts, no moustaches, all that time in; my managers, the weather busmess. And when I fortunately I can afford to pay beards or long side bums, clean who draw good pay, work 65 to find out 85°, no showers, and· them - business has been good hands, fingernails and face - 70 hours a week for me. So they muggy, I know I'm going to get: and therefore I should not knock why? -we're a restaurant, not a earn every bit of it, but they're cl.o~bered. And then I start it - but the hot dog tax is gas station.\ I think the general working hard, and it's a business d1~h~g on that telephone, at hitting the people of smaller overall picture is what shows up, where a 40 hour week doesn't m1dmght, one o'clock I start· means - the medium and higher and that's why I've kept it this ring a bell but now I can breathe dialing switchboards, for c:lass people don't have to hit way, and that's why at daylight a little bit.' tomorrow's deliveries. Call up small, reasonably priced drive-ins every morning there's two men in The winter time - J have a and say .. deliver me 420 pounds to eat - the majority of people here who pounce on this place, motor home I bought. One· of ~f hambur~er patties, same man are going to big restaurants, that and every, that hardtop out there these fellows owns the Northway I ve been wtth for twenty years - they can afford, b1,1t the people is hosed down, every table Heights Golf and Country Club, call up and say send me 80 that have to watch their taxes, washed, even cigarette butts are and myself and three or four. pounds of steak meat, 420 dozen . and have to come to reasonable picked up, everything in that others - all golfer friends of rolls, and I hang up the phone. eating places like mine are the parking lot, even the street is mine, We all go. doWn south and ~nd rou kn?W, they CO~e in at ones that are getting the heavy clean, When ] open Up seven days golf - here we are in the snow stx o clock m the mormng, the tax. Four years ago I took my a week this is done, I look like a right here, and here we ate in bakery, they call their answering children out of higb school for brand new drive-in. Myrtle Beach, South Carolina service. which gi:ves them . my one half a semester, and 1 took, CONCORDY: Are there any the next day and we play golf for order •. Which ~hetve only had' my wife and kids· to Europe for items. on the menu that you a week and then we come back.· about four hours., five hours, ·and· four months, and I had some' especially like? Is .. the Jack burger . 8/ackn:ess Co.,atinued from Pag~ 5 by the fact that nearly twenty- five per cent of the student body recently voted to spend ten percent of their student activities fee to recruit more Black stl:lde_n,ts and · faculty. The resolution lost, but support for it suggests that there can be a new Union in. which ·cultural pluralism is a dctily reality; This vision of a new Union would become flesh in conflicts. that. saw more and more students becoming aware of the contradiction!! in .preparing for a lifetime of unquestioning work in American insitutions that oppress Thitd World persons at home and abroad. The new Union w<,>uld be a better servant of wotld . community than of narrowly-defined national self,. interest. The .new Union would offer more resources for shaping a community in tune with ·· the needs .of the world's oppressed majority than. today's · Union offers. lf this vision gains arms and legs quickly, perhaps the multi;.colored l,ibrary Plaza ca:Q. stand as a memoriai to Union's new financial priorities · and cultural pluralism. However, if this vision dies, then it will be appropriate to paint the whole Library Plaza a drab grey. The grey woUld symbolize Union's commitment to cling to the dullness l!.nd prestige found in being one of the best white ghettos. Such 11. Union would allow ·only enough Blacks int6 her midst to satisfy legal requirements. She would refuse the gifts of Blackness wb.ich:' ' white America and the world\Q. · badly need. She would refuse 'tl1d gifts because she failed to find the courage to confess that even a top-notch white ghetto is still a racist institution. David J. Snider is art li$sistant professor of Social Ethics, who is leaving Union at the conclusion of this term. your favorite? BRENNAN: No; I never had a Jackburger until the competition a few years ago came out with the three ·decker sandwich and when they did I thought up a name - Jackburger - and that's it. Frankly, it's like the help, they come in yelling, \Hey Jumper!\ and. that's me, they mean me. Tliey call me Jumper all the time. I've just never been Mr. Brennan to the boys, some of the new ones call me Mr. Brennan but they soon learn. I know I hired this school kid last August, a skinny little kid of 16, I hired him to wash tables, a good kid, I knew his mother and father well. Worked over there two hours, walks over here and knocks on the door and says, \Mr. Brennan, I quit.\ I looked at him and I says, \Jimmy I just hired you two hours ago and you're doing a wonderful job - what's wrong?\ He says, \Those guys over there in the charcoal pit, they tell me they haven't been paid in three months, and I don't want to work like that!\ So, I had to go over and say, \Hey fellows, let up!\ Close, close the door. It was just a couple of weeks ago that I hired this college kid and he · worked the first day and he was tired the first day, your feet kill you, and it's not that we push them so hard, actually it's the public, there's so much business that's so fast, It's like playing football on the front line. This brand· new kid was pooped and he worked hard, so a couple of my seven year veterans came over and said to him, \Hey Stan, when you go home tonight, you ·tell your parents that your heart and soul belongs to them, but your ass belongs to Jumpin' JackS! .. This goes on all the time - I'm telling you, it's a riot. And for a fellow like me, it takes the dullness out .of my day. ' . ,'. Or •, • I m ' ; j y • ! • ~ . .

' * ,' :(, ' (1 ,. ,') i \ ~ ' ; I t I ~ • <) ' • .. Thursday, June 1. 1972 9 Psi U Beats Fiji . . . . . Les Kernan Richard , Fraser Sign With Boston The Boston Astros of the in the line-up. Also playing for Artlerican Soccer League have Boston ar.e three former members announced the signing of Union's of Santos.of .Brazil, Pele's current Art Fraser and Dusty Richard team, for the l972l!Utnmet catnpaign. Bringing their combined Fraser, who. co..captained last.· e~perience and knowledge of the rams. Garnet eleven, and Richar4 · game to the United States, both have sparked Union with three Mendez and Brito will tutor the brilliant .seasons on the varsity young American players on the after playing under the tutelage Boston dub, which should prove of renowned so.ccer geni:us to be a field day .for Fraser and Robert Benson their freshman Richard because they are the year. By comi1;1g to terms with only Americans ort the entire Boston, both players sta.nd to team. further their soccer careers and With Fraser corning off the fatten their bank accounts by at bench to play halfback and least$60 per game. fullback and Richard filling in at World Cup Caliber left wing, the Astros open their Joining the two Union seniors 14-game sclteQ.itle this Saturday, on the Astro squad will be two and during the course of the world class soccer players; summer Will face the likes of Mendez, the three-time captain Aberdeem of Scotland and the of Lisbon in Portt~gal and. one of Pele-led Santos ~quad from the stars of the Portuguese Brazil national team that participated in - In their first exhibition game the last W odd Cup games; and this spring, the Astros gained a 2- Brito, the captain of the Brazilian 2 ti~ With three-time German national team which won the champion \Tus\ Senelager, World Cup in Mexico City in before 10,000 spectators in 1970 with the incomparible Pele Boston. Sports Year in Review ,by STICK MANUS After two years of frustration, Psi U finally put it aU together on Monday to hand Fiji an 8-1 setback, wrapping u·p the Frat League title. It was the fifth consecutive year that Psi U has reached the finals, although they haven't won since 1969. In fact, last year's team was worked over by Sigma: Chi, 14-1. The showdown on MemdriaJ Day had promised to be a tight pitcher's duel. Both Peter Kircher of Psi U and FijPs Paul Kabb were hot, and both teams had been playing well under pressure. However, Psi U came up with ~ barrage of singles, and capitalized' on six costly errors. The victors scored first in the top of the second as Mike Messerole's .sharp single· to left got by left fielder Dave Benko. His pursuit was fruitless, as Meserole scampered aU the way horne with the first tun. Fiji retaliated in the bottom of the second with a run of their own. Hank Riehl singled, took third on a throwing e.rror by Marty Goosen, and scored on Bob Hall's sacrifice fly. Psi U broke the game open in: ~he fourth with three runs. Brad Hastings' :]ead-off double and Meserole's single put men at first and third. Everyone was safe on Ken Gilpin's routing ground ball to short as Hall's foot was detected off first base. Doug Warner then singled home Meserole, and Gilpin scored when ~atcher Ken Schwenk neglected to .tag him on a play at the plate. And Meserole Again Two more Psi U men crossed the plate in the fifth and sixt!J,. Les l(man All-star Iejt fielder Brad Hastings of Psi U hatting in 8-1 victory over F{ji on Monday. Hastings opened the fifth with a saw Fiji shell a variety of hurlers single and Meserole's base-hit for 22 runs in an awesome again eluded Banko on a play demonstration of offensive powe;r similar to that of the second inning. ln. the sixth, Goosen ·r--· BOX SCORE ---~ singled, took . second when the I Psi u 1 ball was mishandled in the I ab r h 1 outfield, and scored on Hastings' I Martin 4 0 1 1 second dol!ble of the game~ I O'Neill 4 o o 1 Hastings then scored on Gilpin's I Goosen 4 1 2 1 sacr~fice fly to complete the 'I Hastings 4 3 3 1 scormg. . I Meserole 4 3 4 1 It was. obvious to anyone I Gilpin 3 1 0 . watching the game that on this 1 Warner 4 0 2 day, Psi u was by far the better I Bonnie 4 0 1 team. However, not enough can 1 Hudak 4 o o be said for Fiji in defeat. They Kircher 3 0 1 beat Delta Phi twice and bombed 38 8 14 Sigma Chi to earn the right to face Psi U. The Sigma Chi game · Fiji ab r h Kuchta 3 0 0 McCarthy 2 0 0 Benko 3 0 I Rrehl 3 I I Dodds 3 0 0 1 Rabb 3 0 0 1 From Rearic to .Lawrence ~y MARK MINDEL Sports Editor Second quarter. Union 7, St. Lawrence 0. Dave Rearic five for five. Dave rolls left for college ' option. Minutes later his right leg is in an inflatable cast. Rearic lost for season ... Union went on to win 21-17 with Bob Mitchell taking over at quarterback, things looked optimistic, record: 2-0 ... A1fred 35, Union 0. Alfred eventually wins Lambert bowl, Union wins only one more game Westbrook sensational as freshman running back ... R.P .I. beats Union, Union and R.PJ. players fight ... who could forget Mitchell's run for daylight ... next year: will Rearic be fit?. ... The 1971-72 Union basketball team. Sportsman. Bob Bernhardt. will Mitchell play at end? ... who Union wins tough contest by one second half until final minutes ... season in twenty years ... will be in backfield? ... upset by Albany and Jlyron no words needed on Jimmy's ... Baseball wins Art his two WestbJ:ook, Bruce Mathias, Miller next night ... Union 4-2 ... how about JR though?, hundredth ... ll-3 ... Urschel Curtis Rowe should be fifteen games later 19:2 ... fans Geqtleman Joel is tough ... wins 7 straight ... Mitchell and challenged ... can Jaszscak return pack m~morial fieldhouse Rochester finale ... 4 a.m. team Arons power attack ... Gene to top fon:n? ... Ken Grey and 2,500, 3,000, 3,500 see returns to Chi Psi; 500 people Quirk amazes everyone with arm, Tom Anacker should be tough... Williams jump to quick lead, pack the Lodge to welcome home speed, and bat ... lacrosse wins Cross-country stars are only Bacher hit 9·11 from 20 feet, ... team ... Pezzie's parties ate tough ones, loses easy ones, freshmen, ... record breaker Jc;hn Tedisco amazes ... Union wins ranked with team's play impressive against power-houses Kearney transfers to Oneonta... pulling away ... Wesl~yan and Carmody, Dillon, Bacher, Doyle, ... Syracuse victory sweet ... Soccer has great season ... Akin tough, so is Doyle ... u Walker, plus Combs; Gugliotta, Sanderson and White tally two Fraser, Bernhardt lead team to straight from line ... Akin sits ... Abba both ways ... next year goals in final seconds to win by Hall 2 0 I 1 I Lynch 3 0 2 ·I Schwenk 3 0 0 1 I Kabb 2 0 I • II 27 1 6 I l 2 3 4 5 6 7 r b e I ~ Psi U 0 I 0 J 2 0 2 8 14 I · 1 Fiji 0 I 0 0 0 0 0 I 6 6 ! ------------- Concordy's * * 1972 Softball All-Stars 1ST TEAM 2ND TEAM Infield Goosen, Psi U Neilsen, D Phi Kuchta, Fiji O'Neill, Psi U Guild, D Phi Warner, Psi U Martin, Psi U Macauley, Sig Chi Outfield Hastings, Psi U Walker, DU Celentano, Sig Chi Castleman, D Phi Meserole, Psi U Dillon, Ind's Short-field Kenney, D Phi Tedisco, Chi Psi Catcher .Prof. Craig, faculty Geibel, Sig Chi Pitchers Kircher, Psi U Kabb, Fiji Combs, Ind's MacLeod, D Phi record wins ... . . down ... Wesleyan goes down ... could he there... one ... 5~ season sout:ed by loss Walters pessimistic about teant team looks impressive with. Wrestlers disappointing to Engineers ... \score one and -Stick Manus ... Bacher, Carnrody, Combs Jimmy in foul trouble schedule unreal Calabro .. .'' ... ___ ....., ________ _ injured ... Bacher starts first Amherst and final disposal of wrestles heavy ... Zullo, Benedict Concordy Spcrts honors decade ... game on · sprained ankle little three ... oooh, refs aren't for only consistent winners •.• Morris Jimmy Tedi'sco as athlete of the Special mention goes out to Bridgeport and Alan Fisher go real! ... NCAA? ... no NESCAC hurt in questio~ble coaching year -· Bob P~no and Bobby Gary Morris, Bill Simpson, down in overtime ... Walker 800 · · · H. ·· •· d · · b · Bernhardt as ........... men of th M k s d B G ... s1gn petttwn ... artwtc~ ectston ... may e next year •.• .....-... e · ar . an erson, arry ross, amazing down stretch ... turns broadcasters wonder what fuss is Jas:zscak fights injuries to total year ·•• the 19-3 second-in-state Rein Eickinger, Rich Goldberg, out to be one of the most- about ... the Wick is thrashed, twenty points per contest ... basketbaO team as teana or the Joel Rosslyn, Mike Rich, Steve impressive games .... Siena now they know ... Hamilton: freshmen set four records .... year •·• · Ga.y Walters and Art Wood Dave Rice Bryant supposed to be best. in s~ate, ... 4,000 pack the dripping stadiutn, McCabe takes respite in winter. Law~ncc as ~ of ,tile ~ear , Moecke~ Bob Erlandson, and T.ourney open.er U_nt?~-Stena _... Badger and Jimmy .h~ve poor· u >~act.-..-· AlOd team .... ~ Art J.aWftllCe as spec;:iaUY: ~y' _D~~ond a~d an,t~·~ btgg!!:st game m aFea·tThll)\e~u;s- 1 '\~· ·>Ml.f; ~Badgel' ··hlis >·pol':'!t dqili1J ~. ~ ..,_ PJI4~d.:~kt,lo~ .eo.~. pf, .• ,tll~,-,Sf;mqrswlips~~edthelrschool, ... , ·'.4~ll-_l. :)J~t(i;. ' ·~ ... ' t.; ,, ,

10 CONCORDJENSIS, Thursd~.tJ\.June I, 1971 Coaches of the Y·ear Walters, Lawrence Cited TheLegeild Is Humanized A Vital Factor by BILL DUFFY I don't know how long he slaved over the lead, but it was a terrific one. In the Gazette of Feb. 22, 1972, Cecil Walker wrote: \With cannon booming and crowd roaring, sensationid senior guard Jim T edisco and the 1971- 1972 Union College. basketball team bid an emotional farewell to Schenectady last night...\ It was an incredible game. It was the largest crowd in Fieldhouse history. It included my boss at WGY-WRGB, Don Dec!er, whom I'd bugged all year to watch Union. He picked the perfect night. Tedisco was brilliant. The team was white hot in rolling up 110 points against Hamilton, including a school record forty free throws. After the game, in the boisterous locker room, Gazette photographer Eddie Schultz tried to get Tedisco to pose with the man who'd recruited him to Union, Chris Schmid. Schmid quietly refused, saying it was Coach Gary Walters who'd won the games. He was so right. Mr. Walters is a coach of considerable talents. There were games that ledisco did not personally win. Geoff Walker and Chuck Abba beat Pace. Mike Doyle beat Wesleyan. Tom Gar.a· Walters Bacher beat Kings Point. But Gary Walters was responsible for all 19 wins. Walters has won 37 of his 43 games at Hnion. He's brought college basketball back to Schene,ctady. He's introverted, fatalistic, a darkly-moody man of enormou.s basketball principles. He's not going to be at Union very long because he's much too talented for any s~:;hool where basketball is not an overriding consideration. I tested him just once on principle. Before the Hamilton game I asked him (being an inveterate stat man) if he'd let Jimmy go for the record and score 50 points. The leper's bell tinkled and Waiters backed away from me snarling: \I don't coach that way!\ After I screwed rny head back on, the final unit clicked into place in my total impression of Gary Walters, Coach and Man. I have seen only one other small player in this area with Tedisco's talents. He's Davey Guest, now the coach of Draper in Rotterdam. Without Tedisco, Union probably would've had a so-so year. Without Walters, It would've been a dismal seas~:>n. R . h 2'00 by BOB PEZZANO exp~nse. For instance, Gary eaC · eS . · ' Rooming with Jim Tedisco for would be in a vat cleaning ~t · . fo1.1r years has been a reWardii}g while Jimmy would stand outside D , a . . . . dW· . · • . experience. Jimmy is much more pumping air into him. The ca.tch . I mon IDS than an outstandin.g basketbau· was, however, that Jimrny would h DALE tONG . .JJi player: he Js a warm, fun-loving either .pump the air in. too fast ar Y ' person who has made my years not at all, having _ Gary Coach Art Lawrence's baseball at Union unforgettable~ . completely .at_ his. mercy ... When it team finished. the 1972 season Attending differ~nt high came to painting insid~ the plant with an 11-3 mark and a<lded schools In Schene.c:tady, Jimmy Jimmy would often hide on a more honors to the already long and I had always been rivals. catwalk above Gary and spray list owned by the likeable mentor. When Chris Schmid, then varsity paint on him. Jimmy would then Lawrence's 200th win. of his ba~ketball coach at Union, asked come down a~d offer a helping coaching career at Union was us to room together, I had no hand, claiming he had. tUrpentine .gained this year via a 5-l victory Art Lawrence over arch~rival R.P.I. It was a record to be proud of. but when his team congratulated him after the win the coach reacted in the modest, unassuming manner which has characteriz:ed his career. \For what?\ was the only reaction from the man Wllo is the · Winningest baseball coach. ·in this area at any level of competition. It has been 33 years since Art Lawrence first walked onto the Union campus. Since that time he has served the college athletic department in capacities ranging from head hockey coach to director of the intrammal athletic program. Many of this year's graduating class will recall him as the one-time popular resic:lent overseer of Richmond H()use whose late night visits made When Walters leaves Umon, I'm afraid the school faces the pro!ipect of returning stage right on basketball. Tedisco, Walker. Doyle will be gone. Who will replace them? Someone will, but who will replace Walters? A rhetorical question. dorm life a little easier. Obviously, the highlight of any Rotterdam~~ Boy o,(the Year and Union'.v Athlete (?fthe Year. The WGY Program Manager, Donald A. Brown, says who do you watch when you Watch Union-? I advise that next season you watch Gary Walters.· He's a coach destined for great things, and you can tell everyone then that you knew it all along. Bill Duffy shares his insightful mlor commentary of Union basketball with play-by-play man Steve Fitz and the Capital District over WG Y radio. coaching career would be the idea of what I was getting into. I winning of an NCAA had heard stories about Jimmy, championship. In 1965 Lawrence but could not imagine them guided his boys to the Northeast happening since he always Regional Division title win11ing seemed so quiet around me. the final games in Yankee Gradually I got to know Jim Stadium over Old Dominion Tedisco. The summer before we College of Virginia. came to Union he worked at 'Much has been said of Art Schenectady Chen1icals with a Lawrence's winning coaching good friend of mine, Gary career, but hi~ days ~s an active· Pryzbylo. Gary was an player were ftlled With llHlch of outstanding high school player t~e same success. Lawrence.w~s a and, of course, competed with fust team college All-Amencan Jimmy for several area honors, in football as an undergraduate Well, Jimmy couldn't resist Continue.d on Poge 11 having a good time at Gary's The Athletic Dutchman by JOHN QUIRK Twenty-one years ago the administr:ation of Union College graduuted a young individual from its culinery program in the college cafeteria and relocated him behind the bars of the gym cage. Since that time the athletic Dutchman, the cannon, the mammoth basket ball, and the ever-present. \What can I do for you\ have emerged as imforgetable memories .of any undergraduate's ~:;areer at U.C. Of course, the gentleman to whom I refer is the colorful Bob Ridings whose talent in handling the athletic equipment is surpassed only by the amount of friendship he extends to anyone who has had the good fortune of knowing him. Bob Ridings, wit-h c·aimon, in storeroom In his twenty-one years, Bob intact for so long a dltration. He friendships higher .than anything has not only restrung many has never found his work dulL else. ln fact, he explains his baseball gloves and done more He still considers his role not as a biggest satisfaction as being when than his share of laundry, but the part of an athletic team~ but a \boy comes back after Dutchman has been keenly aware rather, as a function of one. graduation just to say •hi'.\ of many changes that have \True I feel indirectly involved Perhaps, it is out of this happened around him. As far as with a team whether they w.in .or intem;e love of his for people in the changing athlete is concerned lose, but my role is in keeping tile general, that Bob Ridings hopes Bob feels that the athlete, attitude of the team up. Knowing Union is able to remain the size himself. hasn't changed much~ the kids as well as I think- I do that it is now. \When you get so but that it is the new and unique enables me to pick them up when big that you don't l<now·who the facilities that give the impression they ate down or calm the;m people are around you you of the athlete's evolution. He when they are nervous. ln this become automated and inhuman. continues by stating that \any respect I am more of a function That is not my idea of college in boy who wants to play bad ·of team rather thap. a part.\ which a boy or girl can do enough still has just as much Throughout his tenure B,ab anything they choose; most chance as anyone else. As in the . cannot single out a favorite team, important of which would be past the amount of work and . but the team that does strike him meeting other people.\ dedication he is willing to put in as \few and far between\ is tbe As far as , the future is is the deciding factor in achieving basketball squad of the past two c.once.tned, Bobby has no. his goal.\ years. He mentions this gl'oup immediate plans for retirement. As far as the amount that he specifically because of the In fact, he goes as far as saying, himsejf has changed, Bob closeness and friendship its \after all I'm 38, going on 39, believes that the ideas he held members convey on and off ()[ and if I can get someone to when he took the job have . the floor regardless of their wo~- . believe me I expect to see your remained basically the same, He. lost petcentage. This to Bob is boy here.\ You know, I couldn't still possesses an intense love for j the definition of a team - not think of any better individual for· sports which, combined with the surp1ising co~in~ from a man my kid to meet at Union than challenges he faces, has kept him·. wh;o · ,hotd~ . ljis,: p.e.rsonal ·11o~ Rtding~. to remove the paint from G~. Gary graCiously accepted this friendly gesture, only to find out that Jimmy had given him ·'l · weak acid that was now irritating his skin. · Freshman year I really got to know Jim. For instance, I found out that he finished. second in the New York State Top Twirlling Contest. He was also the Rotterdam Boy's Club \Boy of the Year.\ Jimmy was indeed a talented youngster. He could imitate a monkey perfectly. I'll never forget the site of Jimmy walking like a monk~y ~alorig the beach· in Daytona, holding Dale Long's hand. IJe actually stoppeif·'' • • . • • . ' ...... [it all acttvtty on the beach. He , would also go through hi$' rt, monkey routine in ptactice, usually to be found hanging from the rim. I often f()und myself the victim of Jimmy's pranks. Once, aft.er I haq gone to bed, he set every clock in the room an hour • ahead. Sure enough, the alarm went off at 8 o'clock (really 7 o'clock). Although quite tired, I reluctantly got up and went to class only to find myself the only person in every building I entered. For awhile I thought I was in the twilight Zone, but then. it \dawned\ on me what had happened. One 'day 1 freshman year, as we were sitting in our room at Richmond, a kid came in and asked Jimmy to sign a petition. Jimmy obliged without bothering to read the petition. As the kid left Jim asked what he had just signed. The kid replied that it was a petition to fire the mailman. This put Jim in an awkward position, since he was the mailman. During his freshman year Jimmy had some difficulty with the girl he had· been going out with. Spying on her one night, he fell off the garbage cans he was using to support his 5'7\ frame up to the window. Then following our first toad game at Norwich, all the freshman had to sing their high school fight songs to the varsity before they could eat. When Jimmy's turn came up be claimed his school didn't have a fight song. However, told that he had to sing and faced with the problems he was having with his girl, he promptly sang, \You're Nobody Till Somebody Loves You.\ Continued on Page 11 • • .. ) .. . ' .... ' • ' l • )< • • • • II fl •

10 CONCORDJENSIS, Thursdav, June I, 1972 Coaches of the Year alters, Lawrence Cited The Legend Is Humanl·zed A Vital Factor by BILL DUFFY don't know how long he slaved over the lead, but it was a terrific one. In the Gazette of Feb. 22, 1972, Cecil Walker wrote: \With cannon booming and crowd roaring, sensational senior guard Jim Tedisco and the 1971- 1972 Union College basketball team bid an emotional farewell to Schenectady last night...\ It was an incredible game. It was the largest crowd in Fieldhouse history. It included my boss at WGY -WRG B, Don Decker, whom I'd bugged all year to watch Union. He picked the perfect night. T edisco was brilliant. The team was white hot in rolling up 110 points against Hamilton, including a school record forty free throw~. After the game, in the boisterous locker room, Gantte photographer Eddie Schultt tried to get T edisco to pose with the man who'd recruited him to Union, Chris Schmid. Schmid quietly refused, saying it was Coach Gary Walters who'd won the games. l-Ie was so right. Art l.a~t·rence Reaches 200 Diamond Wins by DALE LONG JR. Coach Art Lawrence's baseball team finished the I 972 season with an J J-3 mark and added more honors to the already long list owned by the likeable mentor. Lawrence's 200th win of his coaching career at Union was gained this year via a 5- J victory over arch-rival R.P.I. It was a record to be proud of, but when his team congratulated him after the win the coach reacted in the modest, unassuming manner which has characterized his career. \For what?\ was the only reaction from the man who is the winningest baseball coach in this area at any level of competition. by BOB PEZZANO Rooming with Jim Tedisco for four years has been a rewarding experience. Jimmy is much more than an outstanding basketball player: he is a warm, fun-loving person who has made my years at Union unforgettable. Attending different high schools in Schenectady, Jimmy and I had always been rivals. When Chris Schmid, then varsity basketball coach at Union, asked us to raom together, I had no expense. For instance, Gary would be in a vat cleaning it while Jimmy would stand outside pumping air into him. The catch was, however, that Jimmy would either pum.p the air in too fast ar not at all, having Gary completely at his mercy. When it came to painting inside the plant Jimmy would o£ten hide on a catwalk above Gary and spray paint on him. Jimmy would then come down and offer a helping hand, claiming he had turpentine Mr. Walters is a coach of considerable talents. There were games that Tedisco did Hot personally win. Geoff Walker and Chuck Ahba beat Pace. Mike Doyle beat Wesleyan. Tom When Walters leaves Union, I'm afraid the school faces the pro!ipect of returning stage right on basketball. Tedisco, Walker, Doyle will be gone. Who will replace them? Someone will, but who will replace Walters? A rhetorical question. It has been 33 years since Art Lawrence first walked onto the Union campus. Since that time he has served the college athletic department in capacities ranging from head hockey coach to director of the intramural athletic program. Many of this year's graduating class will recall him as the one-time popular resident overseer of Richmond House whose late night visits made dorm life a little easier. Obviously, the highlight of any Rotterdam·.~ Boy of the Year and Union's Athlete c?lthe Year. The WGY Program Manager, Donald A. Brown, says who do you watch when you watch Union? I advise that next season '~~ you watch Gary Walters. He's a coach destined for great things, and you can tell everyone then that you knew it all along. Bill DuffY shares his insightful t·olor commentary vf Union hasketha/1 with play-by-play man Steve Fit:: and the Capital Distrit·t over WG Y radio. coaching career would be the idea of what I was getting into. I winning of an NCAA had heard stories about Jimmy, championship. In 1965 Lawrence but could not imagine them guided his boys to the Northeast happening since he always Regional Division title winning seemed so quiet around me. the final games in Yankee Gradually I got to know Jim Stadium over Old Dominion Tedisco. The summer before we College of Virginia. came to Union he worked at Much has been said of Art Schenectady Chemicals with a Lawrence's winning coaching good friend of mine, Gary career. but hi~ days ~san active·Pryzbylo. Gary was an player were filled With much of outstanding high school player the same success. Lawrence was a and, of course, competed with ~irst team college All-American Jimmy for several area honors. m football as an undergraduate Well, Jimmy couldn't resist Continued on Page U having a good time at Gary's f The Athletic Dutchman / Gan Waller., by JOHN QUIRK Twenty-one years ago the administration of ll nion College graduated a young individual from its culinery program in the college cafeteria and relocated him behind the bars of the gym .,. cage. Since that time the athletic Dutchman, the cannon, the mammoth haskethall, and the ever-present. \What can I do for you\ han: emerged as unforgetahle memories of any undergraduate's career at U.C. Of course, the gentleman to whom I refer is the colorful Bob Ridings whose talent in handling the athletic equipment is surpassed only by the amount of friendship he extends to anyone who has had the good fortune of Bacher beat Kings Point. Rut Ciary Walters was responsible for all 19 wins. knowing him. Bob Ridings, wilh cannon, in .~·toremom Walters has won 37 of his 43 games at Union. He's brought college basketball back to Schenectady. He's introverted, fatalistic. a darkly-moody man of enormous basketball principles. He's not going to be at Union very long because he's much too talented for any school where basketball i~ not an overriding In his twenty-one years, Bob intact for so long a duration. He friendships higher than anything has not only restrung many has never found his work dull. else. In fact, he explains his baseball gloves and done more He still considers his role not as a biggest satisfaction as being when than his share of laundry. but the part of an athletic team, hut a \boy comes back after Dutchman has been keenly aware rather. as a function of one. graduation just to say 'hi'.\ con~ideratron. I tested him JU~t once on principle. Adore the Hamilton game I asked him (being an imeterate stat rnan) if he'd let .Jimmy go lor the record and score 50 pomts. lhe leper's hell tinkled and Walter' haded awa~ !rom me 'narling: \I don't coach t [,,!1 v.ay!\ After I scre...,cd m~ head bad, of many changes that have 'True, I feel indirectly involved Perhaps, it is out of this happened around him. As far as with a team whether they win or intense love of his for people in the changing athlete is concerned lose. hut my role is in keeping the general, that Bob Ridings hopes Hob feels that the athlete. attitude of the team up. Knowing Union is able to remain the si7e him!->elf. hasn't changed much~ the kids as well as I think I do that it is now. '\When you get so hut that it is the nev. and unique enables me to pick them up when big that you don't know who the tacilitit:s that giH' the impres),ion they are down or calm them people are around you you ol tht: athlete\ cmlution. He when they are nervous. In this become automated and inhuman. continue~ hy ),tating that \an~ respect I am more of a function That is not my idea of college in hoy ..., ho \\ants to pia~ had of team rather than a part.\ which a ho~ or girl can do CillHI)!h still has .JLbt as much Throughout his tenure Bob anything they choose; most chanct' as an~one elst:. As in the cannot single out a favorite team. important of which would he past 1 hL' amount of \\ ork and but t hL' team that does strike him meeting other people.\ on. the final unit elided mto dedication he 1s v. illing to put in as \few and far between\ is the As tar as the future 1s place m !11\ total 11npre~s10n ot i), the deciding factor in achil'\ing haskcthall squad of the past two concerned. Bohby has no Gar) Walters. Coach and Mun. his goal.\ years. He mentions this group immediate plans for retirement. As far as the amount that he specifically because of the In fact. he goes as far as saying. I ha\e seen only one other 'mall player 1n this area ~Aith Tediscn\ talcnl\>. He·~ Dave~ CitH.:st. nov. the coach nl Draper m Rottl'rdarn. \Vitlwut I edisco. L mon prohahl~ \~ould'\e had a \0-\0 ~ear \Vithout \\'alter'i, It \tould'\e hecn .t dism;d '-L':J,()n. hirn~eJ! has changed. Boh closeness and friendship its \after all I'm JX. going on 39, helie\es that the ideas he held members convey on and off of and if I can get someone to when he took the joh ha\e the floor regardless of their won- helie>e me I expect to see your remamed Od)>ica lly the same. He lost percentage. This to Boh 1s boy ht!rc:· You knov.. I couldn't '-I ill ptme~,e~ an intense ltne lor, the definition of a team · not think of any better individual for \ porb \\ lm·h. com hmed \\ ith the surpri,ing coming from a man my kid to meet at Union than dtalknge~ he laL·es, ha~ kt:pt him \~ho holds his personal Bob Ridings. to remove the paint from Gary. Gary graciously accepted this friendly gesture, only to find out that Jimmy had given him a weak acid that was now irritating his skin. Freshman year I really got to know Jim. For instance, I found out that he finished second in the New York State Top Twirlling Contest. He was also the Rotterdam Boy's Club \Boy of the Year.\ Jimmy was indeed a talented youngster. He could imitate a monkey perfectly. I'll never forget the site of Jimmy walking like a monkey along the beach· in Daytona, holding Dale Long's hand. He actually stoppe,d · ali' activity on the beach. He would also go through his monkey routine in practice, usually to be found hanging from the rim. I often found myself the victim of Jimmy's pranks. Once, after I had gone to bed, he set every clock in the room an hour ahead. Sure enough, the alarm went off at 8 o'clock (really 7 o'clock). Although quite tired, I reluctantly got up and went to class only to find myself the only person in every building I entered. For awhile I thought I was in the Twilight Zone, but then it \dawned\ on me what had happened. One day, freshman year, as we were sitting in our room at Richmond, a kid came in and asked Jimmy to sign a petition. Jimmy obliged without bothering to read the petition. As the kid left Jim asked what he had just signed. The kid replied that it was a petition to fire the mailman. This put Jim in an awkward position, since he was the mailman. During his freshman year Jimmy had some difficulty with the girl he had been going out with. Spying on her one night, he fell off the garbage cans he was u~ngtosupport h~ 57\ frame up to the window. Then following our first road game at Norwich, all the freshman had to sing their high school fight songs to the varsity before they could eat. When Jimmy's turn came up he claimed his school didn't have a fight song. However, told that he had to sing and faced with the problems he was having with his girl. he promptly sang, \You're :-.;obody Till Somebody Loves You.\ Continued on Page 11 • ... • J • • • • •

• • ... • 4- . • g.· . ) • ~ 1 • • • .. • CONCORDIENSIS,· Thurs.dayt..f.ufle 1. 1972 P,ezzano o-n T d • . The Ut;ion College Madrigal . · . smgers, directed by Hugh Allen e 1 S C 0 Wilson, will present their final Continued from Page 8 courage in leading t,Js to a big win . If you think Jimmy's a.bility to over one of the best teams in d New England.· . nve on the court is wild,. you should se~ him drive a car. He Jirnmy was once .again at his once blew the transmission in his best when we played an father's car artd · had to drive undefeated Siena team. But this home from a date in reverse. year it was not just his scoring that humiliated and frustrated his Anyone who knows Jimmy Tedisco very well, knows what a opponents. His defense was good impressionist he is. He can unbelievable and improved as the do anythi~g from Desi Arnez to season passed by, . People who Mr. Ed . t,o Tony Delgado to measured Jimmy's contribution Coach Walters. Another favorite to the team by the nw;:nbet of character 'of his is . the infamous points he scored, obviously didn't U~Man.- ·Mli'ch- lik-e the know much about basketball. relationship between Clark Kent Jimmy was now a complete and Superman, Jimmy and U- player. Man have never been seen This year's revenge game was tog_ether and bear a striking Williams and Jimmy once again resemblance. U-Man is known to was at his best. But he saved the patrol the halls of Chi Psi best for last. At half-time of the fighting for truth, justice and a Hamilton game coach Walters good time. · told him that if we .got up by concert of the_ school year tomorr?:w. June I, at 8:30 p.m. in_ Memonal Chapel. .. The group will perform Cla,udio Monteverdi's .. Sfogava Con le Stella\ (Raving Aloud at Heaven), and \Occi del mio cor vita,\ by Carlo Gesualdo, both Written in the early seventeenth century. The Madrigals will also sing Benjamin Brittin's Cantata, .. Rejoice in the Lamb\ (1943), and will perform seven movements from Johannes ~r~hms' . delightfully, bawdy Ltebensheder Walter' (Love ~or:g Waltzes). All are cordially mvited to come, and admission is free. * * * * A so,U:ball glove was lost at the Math Dept. picnic on SatUJ:day. If anyone has found it, please contact Prof. Seiken, extension 6246. Jimmy often broke up long thirty poi~ts ~e co?ld have some P ractices with co . al k fun. I don t thmk I ve ever seen a * * * * m1c remar s bigg ·1 - J' ,- c h All prints that were entered I·n and impressions. Of course, he . . • . . er spu e on . tm s !ace .as e also made some practices longer had whe~ he left. the l?ck~r the Photo Society 1 PYE Club when Coach Walters didn't a ree r?om. Thts w.as Jtm Tedtsco s !'hoto . Contest may be picked up with his antics. I can, remei~ber rught and unlik~ most athletes . m 313 David!o~. * * once having to tul): ttie length of who bow out, Jim~y not only All students interested in the the court 50 extra tim'es· ·because rose to the . oc~aswn but he . . . soared ab t J h d I wmter term abroad program in of Jim In th·e 1 ·k b c · ove 1 • · Immy a · a ot . . · · · · oc er room . e1ore Israel are urged to leave their ·games or on bus rides Jimmy had name and address with the a marvelous sense of timing for secretary of the History Dept. telaxing the team with some More information will be BLITHER Tickets are now 'On sale at Student Activities Office for the June 8th Senior Class Day. It has lon-g been a tradition of Union College's Senior Class to present a class day shortly before graduation. However, two years ago the picnic was cancelled because of strike activities that occuted after the Cambodian invasion, Last yea:r for unknown reasons the class day was forgotten. But this year. in one of its typical bursts of enthusiasm. the class of 72 · is reviving tradition iu~d sponsoring a picnic, swimming, and games at Girling Center from 1 :00~6:00 p.m. on the Thursday before graduation. Tickets are $3.00 per person and must be purchased in advance any afternoon from Mrs. Marra or Kate White. - The festivities will include all the food and oeer the Senior Class can consume: and numerous awards, such as the legendary pipe and jug, will be presented. to deserving Seniors. * * * * Anyone interested in waiting on tables or washing dishes in return for meals for the fall term of 1972-73 please call 346-9330 (Psi Upsilon). * * * * funny remark. forthcoming this summer. For most people I don't have . * * * * This summer a series of to go into all of Jim's basketbalf Seniors: graduation tickets and courses for members of the local achievements. But I would like to instructions are now available in low-income community will be relate some of my observations Room #I, Administration begun under a federal grant. The on Jim Tedisco, the basketball Building, and should be picked· first course will deal with player. Jimmy had a great upassoonaspossible. .techniques of political 'sophomore year, setting nearly •* * * * organizing, the structure of local all the school's scoring reCords. The Committee on government, etc. and will involve The team, however, had .a dismal Committees has - selected the reading, extensive field work and yedr. following people as members of the creation of an instructional fiy Jim's junior year, Coach the Social Committee sub- film on the subject. The co\urse Walters had arrived and so bad committees: Tech Crew: Rob will begin }t,me 20, meet every some new faces on the varsity. Grossman, Mark Young, George Tuesday ami Thursday evening Now Jim would have to learn a Idelkope, David Wianick Jeff from 6-8 p.m. for eight weeks, much different style of play. Few Weisoff, Mark Koblenz. and is available to a selected people realize how difficult this Publicity Crew: Lois Brustman, small group of Union students transition was for him. Bob. Shugoll, Skip· Singer, Tina for credit. Those interested Gradually, Jim c·ame on and the Collms, Ann Bonvoult'r, Ann . should contact Gord·on Bt'ngha· tn · h' Jimmy T. and Bob Pezzano; co- rest IS lStory as the team went Pugh, Sharon Brown, Becky · in the Administration Building t 18 3 d T . captains and roomies. G · on o an . - recor . wo games ·rant, Alan Koeningsberg. (6102). stick out in my mind about that of fun in the second half and he * * * * year. One was tbe revenge Jimmy also had a lot of points. got on a busb Rochester team If I had one wish for Jimmy !hat had really roughed him 'up this year- it would have been the m ~ochester a year earlier. You opportunity to play in the had to see the game in Rochester N.C.A.A. tournament. He was the year before to appreciate the really hurt when we couldn't go. humility Jimmy taught them that He didn't want individual night. honors; instead he wanted team Long on Lawrence The other game that sticks out honors. He was proud of his in my mind is the game at teammates, his coach, and his Williams. Jimmy was awfully school, and wanted to play in the sick with the flu and a tournament in the worst way. I temperature. He stayed in bed all recently talked with Jimmy's high day and was unable to eat school coach, and he explained. anything. At the time we were 16~ why he had preferred Syracuse 2 and hopeful of a tournament University to Union as Jimmy's hid. Nothing was going to stop choice of schools. He explained Jim from playing. Coach Walters that he had two dreams for Jim: decided to center his pregame I) that he could play in Madison talk on Jim: \Many ,nave played Square Garden and 2) that he this game while sick, but it takes could play in an N .C.A.A. a. great player with guts to play tournament. Both of these were sick and play well. We need that ridiculous to think of at Union. from you to win tonight.'' Jimmy But, although the first was still played, and played unb~!ievably some way off, we all know that well, scoring 38 points in an Jimmy actually realized and incredibly emotional game. Since deserved the second one. we lost, I'd like to forget that Four years, eighty-one night, but I know I'll never forget basketball games, and a lot of the courageous performance by good times have gone by quickly. Jimmy. It will be a long time before I'll Which brings us to this year. ever meet another person like Jimmy was determined to Jimmy. I know I'll miss him and improve on last season and it was I think Union College will too. not going to be easy to improve on an 18~3 record when facirtg this year's tougher schedule. But he worked hard and sacrificed more than anyone else. His scoring average went down and, consequently, so did the number · of weekly E.C.A.C. teams he made. But Jimmy was always at his best for the big ones. I'll never forget the site of him lying Ce»ntinued from Page 8 at Purdue University. Later, he tried his hand at professional basebaU for a while and, as any member of the baseball team will testify, be possessed quite a ... legendary fastball. He has also been hailed as an exceptional hockey .player and a golfer who once play~d to a highly respectable five handicap. . Athletic excellence runs strong m the Lawrence family as Art's · son Paul is a nationally ranked paddleball player. . In spite of the honors he has gained on every level, • Art Lawrence is quick to give credit to other people. Bill Arsenault, sports reporter for a local newspaper, recently interviewed the coach on the success -of this year's team. He asked no recognition for himself or the years of baseball experience that he carries with him. He asked only that the newspaper give the proper credit to his boys. exhausted, unable to move, on COLLINS PARK • SCOTIA, NEW YORK 12302 • 51 S/393-6101 the locker room floor following the Bridgeport game. Billy Carmody and Tom Combs were out with injuries, and Tom Bacher was just coming off an injury a11d Mike Doyle fouled out early, but Jimmy refused to accept defeat. As at Williams the year before, Jimmy disp!Etyed his \We needed you, so thanks for your hel pa\ -Jumping Jack Brennan The Cigar and The Snail: coaches IAI~Tence and Long. And so, the career of Art Lawren~e extends into the future. He will assume his familiar lookout post ort the press box at Union football games, he will plan the intramural schedules, give valuable advice to young athletes, and smoke an occasional cigar. He will continue to be the grand gentleman that he is - unique- but-grand - and he will continue to be one of the finest men associated with Union College. The outlook for next year's baseball team? This year's squad Was I 1-3 with 2 losses by one run. They hit .292 as a team and fielded like a dream. The best part is that the entire team will be back. There was not one senior on this year's team which received honorable mention in a national collegiate baseball poll. With this in mind it looks as though Art Lawrence will have quite a few more wins under his belt before his career at Union is over. .. 11 Under our new system for the payment of your college bill for the academic year 1972-73, credit cannot he granted for awards such as the New York State Scholarship awards, other state awards and/or any other type of outside award, until official n_otifica~ion of your being granted these awards is available to the Business Office. This is to urge yo1,1 to follow through on your application for renewals of these awards in order that you have the above-mentioned notification before registration m the fall. * * * * I am offering Comp. Ed. 24 (Literature of the Bible) and English 160 (The Early Romantics) during the Summer Session. Students who want to take ad vantage of the rare opportunity of small classes and low tuition ($45 a credit) are urged to see M L Freund oefore the first day of classes. * * * * Disney Continued from Page 2 audience. reassures Spin. saying that \people smile because they're happy!\ Laughter, fun, games. and the smile, as typified hy Annette's inanely permanent smile. are produced in li\'ing color on the Mickey Mouse Show. It's a fun world, and it is celebrated with appropriate exuberance and enthusiasm hy the cast of \Disnetia who work overtime producing the plastic happiness from Disnetia. an unreal world ··a glamorous globe.\ Boylan and Tarshis, as did everyone concerned. hi=ought a lot of imagination and creativity to this production of \'Disnetia.\ Unfortunately, the satire and the parody of Disney's world was a little too heavy-handed. Too often the humor consisted of a silly, insinuative, double- entendre, or an obscenity muttered at an unusual morrtent in the play. Instead of being a razor'-sharp parody of the Mickey Mouse Show. the play's humor sometimes approached junior,..high school level in coarseness and lack of subtlety. · The guileless, inane nature of too many of the punch lines is typified by the line in the play, \Far fucking out,'\ which is cute (I guess). the first time you hear it~ but the second, third, and fourth time around it begins to wear thin and loose some of its \original charm.\ Although there were many excellent performances, several of the performers deserve special credit. Mary John Boylan was particularly outstanding as the aggressive, assertive, occasionally snotty, Mouseketeer Darlene. Paul Delfin showed excellent timing and delivery of some of the funnier lines of the play. John Devlin, who played three roles, was particularly effective as the middle-aged Mickey Mouse explaining the corporate aspects of laughter and ahppiness to Spin and Marty. \Disnetia\ was a musical. Phil Grupp~so played the piano, and played 1t well as the only musical accompaniment for the show. Gruppuso also composed the music, . which was adequately show-b177y, although nothing you would find yourself humming on the way home. The choreography, by Virginia Lyle, was also well-done. On the stage was an elaborate and colorful depiction of the set for the Mickey Mouse television show. It was designed hy Charles Steckler. The whole play was conceived and executed with imagination and creativity. Unfortunately, the inconsistent humor in \Disnetia\ and the inadequate story line were not helped sufficiently by the cast's cnt husiasm and e I abo rate production techniques.

• ... • ' ' • • • • CONCORDIENS/S, Thursdal'. June I 191\' . ' ~ P T d • . The l'nion College Madrigal smgers. d1rt!cted by Hugh Allen e z z an 0 0 n e 1 s c 0 Wilson. will present their final Continqed from Page 8 _If you think Jimmy's ability to dnve on the court is wild, you should see him drive a car. He once blew the transmission in his father's car and had to drive home from a date in reverse. A_nyone who knows Jimmy Ted1sco very well, kmows what a good impressionist he is. He can do anything from Desi Arnez to Mr. Ed t.o Tony Delgado to Coach Walters. Another favorite character of his is the infamous U-Man. Much like the relationship between Clark Kemt and Superman, Jimmy and U- Man have never been seen together and bear a striking resemblance. U-Man is known to patrol the halls of Chi Psi fighting for truth, justice and a good time. Jimmy often broke up long practices with comical remarks and impressions. Of course, he also made some practices longer when Coach Walters didn't agree with his antics. I can remember once having to run the length of the court 50 extra times because of Jim. In the locker room before games or on bus rides Jimmy had a marvelous sense of timing for relaxing the team with some funny remark. For most people I don't have to go into all of Jim's basketball achievements. But I would like to relate some of my observations on Jim Tedisco, the basketball player. Jimmy had a great ·sophomore year, setting nearly all the school's scoring records. The team, however, had a dismal year. By Jim's junior year, Coach Walters had arrived and so had some new faces on the varsity. Now Jim would have to learn a much different style of play. Few people realize how difficult this transition was for him. Gradually, Jim came on and the rest is history as the team went on to an 18-3 record. Two games stick out in my mind about \that year. One was the revenge Jimmy got on a bush Rochester team that had really roughed him ·up in Rochester a year earlier. You had to see the game in Rochester the year before to appreciate the humility Jimmy taught them that night. The other game that sticks out in my mind is the game at Williams. Jimmy was awfully sick with the flu and a temperature. He stayed in bed all day and was unable to eat anything. At the time we were 16- 2 and hopeful of a tournament bid. Nothing was going to stop Jim from playing. Coach Walters decided to center his pregame talk on Jim: \Many have played this game while sick, but it takes a_ great player with guts to play s1ck and play well. We need that from you to win tonight.\ Jimmy played, and played unbelievably well, scoring 38 points in an incredibly emotional game. Since we lost, I'd like to forget that night, but I know I'll never forget the courageous performance by Jimmy. Which brings us to this year. Jimmy was determined to improve on last season and it was not going to be easy to improve on an 18-3 record when facing this year's tougher schedule. But he worked hard and sacrificed more than anyone else. His scoring average went down and, consequently. so did the number of weekly E.C.A.C. teams he made. But Jimmy was always at his best for the big ones. I'll never forget the site of him lying courage in leading us to a big win over one of the best teams in i\ew England. Jimmy was once again at his best when we played an undefeated Siena team. But this year it was not just his scoring that humiliated and frustraved his opponents. His defense was unbelievable and improved as the season passed by. People who measured Jimmy's contribution to the team by the number of points he scored, obviously didn't know much about basket ball. Jimmy was now a complete player. This year's revenge game was Williams and Jimmy once again was at his best. But he saved the best for last. At half-time of the Hamilton game coach Walters told him that if we got up by thirty points he could have some fun. I don't think I've ever seen a bigger S\llile on Jim's face as he had when he left the locker room. This was Jim Tedisco's night and unlike most athletes who bow out, Jimmy not only rose to the occasion but he soared above it. Jimmy had a lot Jimmy T. and Bob Pezzano; co- captains and roomies. of fun in the second half and he also had a lot of points. If I had one wish for Jimmy this year it would have been the opportunity to play in the N.C.A.A. tournament. He was really hurt when we couldn't go. He didn't want individual honors; instead he wanted team honors. He was proud of his teammates, his coach, and his school, and wanted to play in the tournament in the worst way. I recently talked with Jimmy's high school coach, and he ex.plained why he had preferred Syracuse University to Union as Jimmy's choice of schools. He ex.plained that he had two dreams for Jim: 1) that he could play in Madison Square Garden and 2) that he could play in an N.C.A.A. tournament. Both of these were ridiculous to think of at Union. But, although the first was still some way off, we all know that Jimmy actually realized and deserved the second one. Four years, eighty-one basketball games, and a lot of good times have gone by quickly. It will be a long time before I'll ever meet another person like Jimmy. I know I'll miss him and I think Union College will too. concert ol the school war tomorrow, June I, at l\:30 p.n~. in Memorial Chapel. The group \\ill perform Clwdio \tonte\erdi\ \Sfoga\·a Con le Stella\ (Raving Aloud at Hca\en). and ··occi del mio ~nr \ita,\ hy Carin Gesualdo. hoth written in the earl\ se\enteenth century. The Madri.gals \\iII abo sing Benjamin Brittin\ Cantata. \Rejoice in the I.arHh\ ( 1943}. and will perform ~e\en mo\emcnts from Johannes Brahms' delightful!\ hn\d\ \Liebenslieder \\'al1~r'\ (!.o\~ Song Walt7es). A.J] arc wrdiall\ imited to come. and admission i.s free. * * * * A so;;.t ball gkne \\as lust at the Math Dept. picnic on Saturda\. If .anyone has found it. pbr~e contact Prof. Seil,en, e\tension 6246. * * * * All prints that \ere entered m the Photo Society PYE Cluh Photo Contest may he picked up m 313 Da\ idson. * * * * All studenb interested in the winter term abroad program in Israel are urged ILl lea\'c their name and address \\ith the secretary of the History Dept. More information \Ill! hL· forthcoming this summer. * * * * Seniors: graduation tickets and instructions arc nP\\ a\ailahle in Room ttl, Administration Building, and should he picked up as soon as possi hie. ,* * * .. The Committee on Committees has selected the following people as members of the Social Committee sub- committees: Tech Crew: Rub Grossman, Mark Young, George ldelkope, David Wianick, Jeff Weisoff, Mark Koblem. Publicity Crew: Lois Brustrnan. Bob_ Shugoll, Skip Singer, Tina Colhns, Ann Bonvoulir, Ann Pugh, Sharon Brown, Becky Grant, Alan Koeningsberg. * * * * Long on Continued from Page 8 at Purdue University. Later, he tried his hand at professional baseball for a while and, as any member of the baseball team will testify, he possessed quite a ... legendary fastball. He has also been hailed as an exceptional hockey player and a golfer who once played to a highly respectable five handicap. Athletic excellence runs strong in the Lawrence family as Art's son Paul is a nationally ranked paddleball player. In spite of the honors he has gained on every level, . Art Lawrence is quick to gi\'e credit to other people. Bill Arsenault, sports reporter for a local newspaper, recently interviewed the coach on the success of this year's team. He asked no recognition for himself or the years of baseball experience that he carries with him. He asked only that the newspaper give the proper credit to his boys. ~~ .. ~~~~~~~ ex·s ~ D N exhausted. unable to move, on COLLINS PARK • SCOTIA, NEW YORK 12302 • 518/393-6101 the locker room floor following the Bridgeport game. Billy Carmody and Tom Combs were OUt with InJUries, and fom Bacher was just coming off an injury and Mike Doyle fouled out early, but Jimmy refused to accept defeat. As at Williams the year before, Jimmy displ::ryed his \We needed you~ so thanks for your help.'' -Jumping Jack Brennan BLITHER Tickets are mm on sale at Student Acti\lties Oftice tm the .I unc Hth Senior Clas~ Da \. It has long heen a traditwn nt l'nion College's Senior Cia~~ tu pn.-~ent ~~ cia~~ da \ :-.lwrtl\ hctun: graduation. Ho\\~\er. t\\.o \ear:-. ago the picni~.· \\a~ ~.·an:dkd because L11 :-.tnke a~ti\ itie~ that uccured alter the Camhod1an in\ a~ion. I.a~t ~ear tor unkno11 n n:a:-.on~ the das~ da \ 1\ a:-. furgotten. But this \ear, it~ one <ll its typical huNs ,~t enthusiasm. the class of 7~ 1s re\ J\ mg tradition and spon~LHin,t; a picnic. s\\ i mm; n,t;. and ga llll'~ at Ciirling Center !rom I :00-6:00 p.m. on the Thursda\' ht?tore graduation. l'ickets an: SJ.OO per person and must he purchased in ad\ ance an~ afternoon t rum Mrs. Marra or Kate White. I'he testi\ities will include all the food and hcer the Sen1,1r Class can consume: and numerou~ a\\ards. such as the legendary pipe and jug. \\ 11l he pn:sentt.'d to desening Senlllrs. * * * * .-\n~onc interested in \\aiting tln tahles or \\ash1ng dishL's in rt'!Urn ltlr m~ab f,lr tht• tall term ut 1972-n please call 34fo-9330 ( p,i l'psilon). * * * * I his summer a 'encs <ll t'Olllses t,Jr memhers nt tht· l<lt\.tl lu\\ -lflC<lllle eommunit \ \\ill he hl')!Un Under ,L federal ~rant. f ht• first cour~t· \\Ill deal \\ith technil..jues nt political organi;ing. the structure Lll local government. etc. and \ill Jmohe reading. t'Xtensi\e I 1L'ld \\ urk and the creation nt an instructional film on the suhiect. l he co'ur~e will begin June. 20, meet e\en Tuesday ari'd Thursday e\'ening from 6-H p.m. for eight \eeb and is availahle to a selected small group of ll nion students for credit. Those interested should contact Gordon Bingham in the Administration Building (6102). Lawrence The CiKar and The Snail: coache1 1.£11\ reJl£ e and l.ong. And so, the career o! Art Lawrence extends into the future. He will assume his lamilmr lookout po~t on the press ho x at Union foothall games, he \\ill plan the intramural schedule!->, give \ aluahle advice to young athletes. and ~moke an occasional c1gar. He \\ill continue to he the grand gentleman that he i~ UlliLJUe- but-grand and he \\ill continue to he Llne ot the tine~t men a\soc1ated \lith I mon College. The outlook !tn next ~ear\ base hall team'! I hi-. year\ 'i..Juad wa~ II-) \11 h 2 Jo,,e, h\ one run. 1 hey hit .2112 a~ a tea1·n and fielded ilke a dream. 1 he hest part 1' that the entire team \IJII be hack. I here \a-. not one ~enior Llll thi-. :vear\ team \\ l11ch recet\ ..:d honor a hie rnent1on 1 n <! nat10nal collegiate haschall pull. Wnh th1' 111 n11nd rt look-. .t' thLlu,t;h Art I a\11l'ncc \\ill halt\ i..JUite .t k\.\o more \11\S undt:r Ius helt before his career at t' nion is o\ er. 11 l'ndt:'r our ne\\ system tor the pa~ment lll ~our college hill tor the acadt:rTilc ~l'ar 1972-73. ercdit ~annot ht: grantt•d tor a\ard~ 'lKh a~ the :\e\.1 Yllrk State SL·h1lar~h1p av.ards. other ~tate ,1\\ards and/er an~ other type of outside award, until ollie1al nntllica!lon nt ~ uur hc111g !,!r.tnted thl',t' ,!\l.!!d' 1' a\ailahk l<l t ht• BtNne,-, Otficc. !IllS j, t<1 lll)!L' ~ tll1 1\l t,li!Ll\\ thruugh <lll \LlUI ,!ppl1t\atlllll f<lr renL'I\al' lll the,e a11anh 111 <Hder that \Llll ha\e the dh<l\L'-lllt'ntio;lL'll 11<lt11icat1llll hel<l!L' rq!1\tratiun 111 tht• !;lil. * * * * I .1111 <1llenn.~,: C,Hnp. I d. ~4 (! rtl'Ltture lll !he B1hkl and ln)!lhh lbO <lhe larh RLllllantics) durin!! the Summe.r Ses~i,1n. Students \\ho \lant to takt• ad\antage ,11 tht' rar~ <lppnrtunit~ <ll ,mall clas-.e' and hm tuit1nn iS...\~ a credll) .tre lll,t;L'd to :-.L'e \1 r. heunJ heturt• the first da~ <>I t•lasses. * * * * Disney Continued from Page 2 dl!d1t'Ill'l', I'L'd'\lllL .. ., :-;pill. '<i\111:.! th;tt \rc:·orlt- ,mile ht·~·;;u ... ~· thL·: ·,,. harr: , .. l au!!htn. tun. !!,llllL''· .1nd till· \ll11k. ,1, l\pifll.'d f)\ .·\ttrlL'ItL··, Jllallt'l! PLTlll<1I1l'nt . -.mrk. ,u,· P1<ldllet'd in l1\ ill!.! ,·pJnr <lfl th,· \lick,·: \.lpu,c Sl;tlll It\ ;1 11111 ~~orld. and It 1' L\t'khratcd \1 It h appropna!L' l'\llh~rantc ;tnd enthu,iasm h~ tIll' cast , l! \()i \\hu \\prJ.. <l\ertimc pl'llUllL\in!! the r!a~tiL· happinc~' !rom Di,nl'tia. an unreal 11orld ··a ghunorous glo he.\ Bo~lan and I ar,hi:,. a' d1d e1eryone concerned, brought a lot of imagination and creati\itv to thi, production of \Disnetia_; Unfortunately. the satire and the parody of Disney\ world wa:, a little too heavy-handed. Too often the humor consisted nf a silly, insinuati\'e, douhle- entendre, or an obscenity muttered at an unusual moment in the play. Instead of being a ra7or-sharp parody of the Mickey Mouse Show. the play's humor sometimes approached junior-high school level in coarseness and lack of subtlety. The guileless, inane nature of too many of the punch lines is typified by the line in the play, \Far fucking out,\ which is cute (I guess), the first time you hear it, but the second, third, and fourth time around it begins to wear thin and loose some ol its \original charm.\ Although there were man) excellent pert or rna nee!>, ,e\ era! of the performer'> desene :,pec1ul credit. Mary .John Hoylan \a~ particular!~ oubtanding a:. the aggre,,i\e, a,:,erti\e, occasional\\ ~nott), Mou:,eketeer Darien~. Paul Delfin showed excellent timing and deli wrv of some of the funnier line' -ol the play . .John Devlm, \o\ho played three role-,, \as particularly effecti\'e as the middle-aged Mickev Mouse ex plaming the corporate a~ pects of laughter and ahppincss to Spin and Mart). \[)i: was a mmical. Phil (iruppuso played the piano, and played it v.ell as the only musical accompaniment for the show. Gruppuso also composed the music v. hich \a' adequately 'ho\\-hllt~. although n11thing }<lll \\OUJd l111d \Llllr\t:\1 hllillfl11ng Ll!l the \\ d\ h;llllL' jIll' chorcugraph:. h\ \.irgm1a I vk. \\a:, al-,n \\t'll-dont' On the 't~ge \\as <tn clahoratl' ~llld colLnlul lkpletJon of the 'et for the \1icJ..L'\ \llHN' lL'k\1~1<111 ,h,l\\ It \\,1, de,J,t;ned h1 (·hark' Stt·ckkr I hl' \1 hok. pia~ \\,1' l'llnl'L'i\t:d and L'\L'<.'lltl'd \\ tth lill:l!.!i!Llt1Pfl ,111d <.'1l'.!ll\ll\ l nl,lltl.lll<!IL'il. thl' lllL'Illl,hkrlt hllill<ll ill .. , lhfl<.'ll,! .. ,!lld till' lll.llfl'qll,!tL' 'll>il \till' \\<;'It' llllt !JL·lpl'd ,Uf11L'Il'll{J\ h\ tflt• L\ ,·nth th1.i'ill ;.aJ;d . ,·la h,) rat t' ['l<>dudi<lrl l<.'<.'hlllqur'

fl I J ~I • I l ] 1 \'I 1 ·. (•

