VollOl, No.. 26 Founded at Union College 1877 S~HENECTADY, NEW YORK FEBRUARY 1, 1972 Price Twenty Cents All-College Senate On . . Grades, Calendar Changes by PATTY SIPE The All College Senate discussed a proposed .. calendar change for next year, the possible shift to a master schedule system, a proposed AES course, and the question of transfer of \D\ grades in its meeting Thursday, January 20. A decision to table the matter until a poll ofi the student body can be taken was maqe. The Student Senate is now in the process of preparing a fact sheet and questionnaire to determine the opinion of the student body on this matter. President Martin then brought up the question of Evaluation of Adminisl!rators. The Liason and Governance Committee was given the power (by the passed, while the motion to allow credit for \D'' grades earned at other institutions failed. · Possible shift to a master schedule system was discussed by the Senate. A list of the Pros and Cons of such a system which was passed out to the members of the Senate, appears below. Pros: I. Eliminates increasing number of conflicts produced by the current system (nov. 400 per term). 2. Students will know term in advance when a course will be given. No last minute close-outs. 3. Maximum .efficiency in. time and space utilization. 4. Cuts down number of late registrations and changes m programs. Simon, Newbur~ In Concert Frida~ The first item on the agenda after the approval of the minutes was the course proposal from the Curricular Affairs Committee concerning AES 220, \Cybernetics of Economic Systems.\ The proposed course was given the approval of the Curricular Affairs wmmittee on Nov. 17. Subsequently, a qu.estion concerning the prerequisites for the course arose, and the course proposal was placed on the agenda of the ACS. There was art opinion that the course had too many prerequisites to be practical as an undergraduate course;. however, the course was approved by .the ACS in its original form. The proposed calendar change for next year is a split-three system: · Governance Report) to devise a method . of .evaluating administrators. A method was devised by the committee, but in t.he last General Faculty meeting the faculty voted against its implementation because the sampling procedure was felt to be inadequate. The Student Senate will consider the. question, and the matter will be placed on the agenda at a later date, when the Student Senate's position has been determined~. A Proposal of the Curricular Affairs. Committee to accept any passing grade in a transferable course for credit for a transfer student, and to allow credit for 5. Cuts down on computer services required. 6. Faculty will know ahead of time what their. schedules will be. Cons: I. Courses may be selected on bas~s of time offered, not quality of course, i.e. some students won't take 8:30's or Friday afternoon courses, thus missing out on some good courses. This Friday evening at 8:30 p.m. the Union College Social Committee will bring to Memorial Chapel the sounds of Carly Simon and Mickey Newbury. Carly Simon has, to date, released two solo albums on Elektra records, each of which received wide critical acclaim. in addition, a growing number of concert appearances has eat:ned her a massive popular and critical following. Of a recent date at New York's Bitter End, the New York Times said, \Miss Simon does everything superbly. Her voice is ·rich and full and versatile enough to go from high, pure, vibrato-less head tones to deep, tigerish growls. She plays guitar so unobtrusively that it would be easy to overlook her unusual dexterity on the instrument. And tying her many gifts together is the electric presence of a born p~rformer - the almost unconscious command of a stage that comes as naturally to her as walking.\ Peter Maloney of Changes Magazine writes: \Carty• Simon was smashing! She walked onto the stage and smiled at the audience as if they were old friends. Carly Simon is a songwriter, a singer, and an entertainer, and in her these three talents are inseparable. She sings her own songs and the songs of other writers, making them her own... It is beautiful to see the combination of a spectacular voice and the ability to connect deeply, emotionally to the song ... and Carly Simon has just that precious combination.\ The Schenectady P.Y.E. Club will meet on Thursday night,· February 3, at 7:30 p.m., in the P.Y.E. Office, located in the basement of Slliiman Hall. Once again, P.Y.E. would like to thank Professor Huntley for speaking at last week's meeting on the topic of tree planting and replacement on Union's campus. All members are urged to attend this week's meeting and any new members are also welcotne. ~~ Mickey Newbury has released three albums and his songs have been recorded by artists in every vain of c0ntemporary music, including Buffy St. Marie, B.B. King, Joan Baez, Andy Williams and Ray Charles. Tickets for the concert are $3 for Union Students and $4 for all others. They are now on sale in the Student Activities Office. If any remain, they will be on sale at the door beginning at 7 p.m. on Friday, at the same prices. Fall: Winter: Spring: Classes Sept. 11-Nov. 16 Recess Nov. 23-Dec. 3 Dec. 4-19 Recess Dec. 20-Jan. 3 Jan.3-Feb.23 Recess March 2-11 March 12-May 17 Commencement: May 26 Exams Nov. 17-22 Feb. 24-March I May 18-23 2. Faculty meqtbtH\S may not get the kinds of schedules they prefer. 3. Courses not necessarily scheduled when . optimum number of students · will be enrolled (Currently original number of conflicts reduced by 50%) 4. No opportut1ity to deal with conflict situation once schedule is published. Stude,nt Senate Committee Announces Reform Plans I any passing grade in a course taken by a Union student at another institution (providing that course had previously been approved here) was considered. Prior to any\ action, \D\ grades in transferable courses were acceptable only if the student transferred from a two year college. The proposal was split into iwo motions. The motion to allow credit for any transferable course in which the transfer student received a passing grade 5. More work on scheduling to be done by departments and among departments. 6. Last minute changes have to be kept to a minimum to avoid fouling up the master schedule. A decision was made to delay any action on this matter until the Registrar formulates a ~oncrete proposal. The Student Senate reform committee, chaired by Marty Sherman, '74, has completed its work on a proposal to institute major changes in Student Senate structure, and released a report of the proposal to Student Senators tonight. Senators will vote on the plan in two weeks. Committee members Sherm'an, Henry Kass, '72, Mark Klein,. '72, and Dan Wolfe, '74, in a meeting with Concordiensis yesterday discussed the nature and the implications of the proposal. Other committee members were Robin Waring, Nick Karambelas, Peggy Miller, Pat Wardell, Bob Kennedy, Jeff Wisoff, Tom Thompson, Cornelia Jones, Dave Robbins, AI levy and Kathy Mitchell. The basic change wnich would be initiated if the proposal were passed is a transformation of the Student Senate to an eleven member ste.ering committee which would handle all routine business. To increase general student involvement in the governing process, the steering committee would hold bi- monthly open hearings, with all students invited to attend. The agendas for these hearings would be publicized on campus several days in advance, and would be subject to change on suggestion until the start of the hearing. The vote of three members would be necessary to schedule hearings beyond the bi-monthly meetings. For more important issues, students could vote at \town meetings\ which could be called by the vote of three members of the steering committee or by circulating a petition among the students which would require only two hundred signatures. At the town meetings, voting would be on the one-man-one- vote principle, with each student present having aq equal vote in the balloting. Decisions made by the general student body at the town meetings would override any previous decisions made by the steering committee. There Would be no general voting, however, at the open hearings, which are designed to be informative sessions, and opportunities to solicit student views. The motivation behind the proposal, according to Mark Klein, was to \create a Senate with efficiency in handling small matters, and power in handling important issues.\ If the Steering Committee can handle small matters rapidly and successfully, there will be more time devoted to meaningful action on the more impo-rtant matters. The pro.posed eleven man steering committee would consist Continued on Page 2 The discussion of the Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Freshman Year was postponed until a later meeting. .. Equality·, Mass Participation Seen As China's Strengths Upon entering the Social Science room where, on Thursday, January 27th Dennis Peskin was to speak on his recent trip to China, the impression re- ceived was one of being about to attend a meeting of the Communist Party. The red flag of the Peoples' Republic of China as well as posters of Mao Tse-tung draped the front wall. Literature on Communist China was stacked at a table near the doorway of the room. Mr. Peskin, a former English teacher at Union College, nervously spoke about his visit to China which lasted slightly over three weeks. Traveling with the Progressive Students Delegation, the itinerary included stops in Hong Kong, Peking, Yenan. Shanghai and Canton. Stating that the group had first stopped in Hong Kong before going on to China, Mr. Peskin commented upon the contrast of the living conditions in the two areas. He noted the slums, or \crumminess people have to live in\ in Hong Kong as compared to the cleanliness of China. The Chinese people were \friendly warm, helpful\ in contrast to the atmosphere of fear generated by the people in Hong Kong. The delegation Mr. Peskin traveled with was provided with an interpreter, as well as having the benefit of a member of the group who spoke Chinese, who vouched that everything translated was accurate. The group visited factories. agricultural communes, universities and hospitals, where they witnessed acupuncture. Mr. Peskin noted that though pre- liberation buildings still stand in China, construction is taking place at a rapid pace. He further noted that it is \not true that the people are starving in China.\ Continued on Page 3

Page 2 CONCORDIENSJS, February 1, _1972 Editor-in-Chief loui' S Snitkoll 370-4956 l·eaturc' Editor \1atthcv. Sv.arl/ ,\cting Sports Editor \~lark Mind<.!~ l'hotujlraphy Editor Dave Conrc~ A<;.~!. J'huto Editor Sco1t ( i • mlu n New~ Editor Howard Stone Asst. Managing Editor (iail W. (ioodman ( 'ontri buting Ed'itorr. Wrlliam Holleran Mrkc Mc\crolt• i'ctn Brdcrman Managing Editor Doug Wong 346-9735 Business Manager Jo,cph P. Achcnoaum As.~t. Busines.~ :W:magea Michael Hurle~ Subscription Manager I homa' .J. Conley !\;ational Advt. Manager Mark Shulman STAFF: Bob Johnson, La.rry Wharton, Jon Philipson, Bill Westheimer, Steve Ente, Richard Kern, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. Rain, Jody Saslow, Charles Long, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald, Reid Russell, Paul Connors, Phyllis Edelman, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice., Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald,. Patty Sipe, Jeff Weilburg 1 l'uoli~hed 1 uesday~ and Fndays dunng the school year by the student hody of Union College, Schenectady. N.Y.. National Advertising Rcprcl>entattve, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College l'uhh~hc,., R•:presentative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old tiym. IJmon College. Puhlication Office, The· World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy $K a year delivered anywhere m the United States. For Direct Democracy The Student Senate reform committee p;roposal promises to be a meaningful solution to the problems currently faced by the student governing group. Upon brief evaluation, the weaknesses in the proposal, besides being admittedly few, are basically extrinsic. Its successful implementation depends not only on how it is carried out, but on how it is received by the students, faculty and administrators. Its basic strenb>th 'is that it transforms the students' role in governance here from one of statistical involvement to one of actual involvement. Student opinion \viii no longer be represented hy results of a tJUestionnaire, but rather by two hundred yeas or nays voiced at a town meeting. Such a direct expression ol individual and collective opinion on the\part of . the students cann.9t be easily ignored. In addition to these advantages o\er the current system, the new proposal outli ncs a system which by-passes the inefficiency and the somewhat less than adequate representation in the Senate as it now stands. - L.S.S. - ADVERTISEMENT - t:ditorial: Academic ('ommunity Needs Peace .It is with a sense of deep regret and dismay that the editors of this publication look upon the recent opening of hostilities between the peoples of Athens and Sparta. These noble people, skil!ed to a degree as yet unsurpassed in the annals of civilization, have provoked what appears to be a senseless, destructive conflict which can only lead to suffering and increased hatred. We call upon the gods to Intervene and appeal to man's basic sense of reason and understanding in resolving this conflict. As responsible members of the academic community, we must demand an immediate cease- lire. The reasons for the conflict, while s~r~mde~ in vague rhetoric from both sides, as seen in past issues of this publication. seem as ancient as the very history of man. Pride, envy, and greed have been exhibited in the propaganda of both sides. Sur.ely these are no reasons to take lives. It is thus with a growing sense of alann that we receive reports of both camps arming for a major confrontation. From all indications, the previously demilitarized zone in Library Plaza is said to be the prime objective of both sides, and troop movements along both the Engineering Highlands and Fox Valley suggest an initial contact between the two armies sometime around February 5th, which is the date of the Ancient Celebration of the Beetle. Again, we make a final plea to both sides to lay down your arms so that we may have a lasting peace here on Nott Hill. -LAWRENCE S. DREADNOUGHT SPECiAL SALE ....... , . .,_. __ CLOSING OUT MANY ITEMS IN OUR STUDENT. YOUNG MEN'S DEPT. Sias 36 to 42 1 /3 OFF ENTIRE STOCK - SUITS • SPORT COATS SLACKS (Waist~ 33-34.36} lndudM New Double Knitt. •p---~~ ...... -il .. and ~r~uroys M'. ~S . OUTERWEAR t.l. ~ \ACKETS • COATS f.arnoiiS Brands 313STATE ST., AT ERIE. BLVD. OPEN mURSDAY TIL 9 P.M. FREE PARKING PLAZA BEHIND STORE FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEIN·'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 To the ·Editor: As one of those thirty-eight people so roundly criticized in Jim Alberg's letter I feel bound to reply, not because his views are entirely simplistic or incorrect but because his attitude is indicative of much of what is· wrong with Union College. ·1 certainly believe that he has made some telling points which should not be buried under his rhetorical overkill. For example, I agree that: . the new, high- intensity lamps represent an environmental diaster, unless one prefers a penitentiary atmosphere; if, the maintenance department made the effort to repair existing lighting most of these monstrous beams co11ld be removed without any substantial loss in <;amp.us security. While I have no knowledge concerning the veracity of the complaint aimed at Hillel. as a general principle no one should have the ri·ght to search through registration cards without the student's specific approval. Surely there are things happening on campus which should be brought to the attention of more people, but Mr. Alberg does not seem to realize that the newspaper staff is not a smug clique of egotistical characters who deliberately manage the news. On the contrary, we constitute a group of varying backgrounds and opinions who can devote only a very limited amount of time to the newspaper. This woLild seem self-evident, except for the fact that Mr. Alberg wants us to be everywhere covering everything for the sake of his enlightenment. In fact. we could he almost everywhere if we had the staff to do so; however, we can only do that which is within our resources. For the Concordy editors the greatest resources are people. students eager to involve themselves In the often unglamorous and time- consuming work which results in competent journalism. The newspaper can hardly avoid being a reflection of the College community; in Union's case the students are largely apathetic, thus the paper is often dull. In a sense. Mr. Alberg's real venom is being directed against the student body in general due to their adamant refusal to become involved. Yet he and others sharing similar sentiments are also part of the problem; their complaints are loud but their actions are scarce. Such criticism has its uses in raising consciousness. but if real change is to occur the critic must either join those institutions he faults or create alternatives. Activism must be more than verbal to be gen~ine. Peter Bickerman '73 * * * * To the Editor: In the cause of canine events, several individuals have risen above their day to day duties to make their mark in history. The . Union College community is fortunate to have such an individual. The Brothers of Phi Delta Theta are proud to announce that a blessed event took place on January 24. 1972. Buhbles La Tour. affectionately known to her friends and followers as Bubhles. gave hirth to eleven houncing. baby bublets. In tying her 0\\11 campus record, Bubbles gr , birth to puppies of all shapl.;. si7es. and color's. We wish to thank the hundreds of indi\iduals who made this ewnt possible. If you \'ish to be the first on your block to han': a hub let. call 377-4651 or 346-97 30. Sincerely, The Brothers of Phi Oelta Theta * * * * Letter to the Editor,; Dear Mom... a funny thing happened the other night when the ·Dean of Students' wife invited the .guys in my living unit, who just happen to be black, to one Qf the many poffee hours she gives for the entire campus. All of the gliys I live with showed up, with the exception of one, and there were two other brothers (blacks) from c:ampus. About twenty-five white students carne also. 'fhe gathering started at nine-thirty and by ten-thirty, or after several cookies and a few cups of ptmch, plus a few jive- time conv.ersations with a couple of white students; I. decided that it was time for me to leave and go b~ck to my room and finish, 0t at least attempt to finish my studies in preparation for the .next class day. The Dean's wife · courteously saw us to t:he door and while I was standing in the entrance way with two other people .she said to me, \Thanks for bringing your people by, Gerry.\ 1 didn't know how to react to what she said; perhaps I didn't want to .give her a reaction. I did find it to be amusing, but definitely upsetting that she regarded me as ~ leader of \my people.\ These brothers have mind~ of their own. But her statement made me think that she felt no common bond of humanity with black students in. particular, that we were outsiders of whatever group she belonged to. And here, I'm suggesting her white race. I had thought that since we are humans and if what I have been told about brotherhood is true, and not just another liberal ploy or deception, that my people are truly her people too. The two should bl! inextricably seen as one. I don't know, maybe she was afraid to even think that she was in any way linked to the color of my skin and my humanity. I guess it's not the thing, or not valuable to be black in America, or even to be black in this microcosm of American society, Union College, because black people are not human, but just black. And for a white person to associate· with blacks on a familiar basis, with o'ur commonality in mind, might cause ·a white person to become a darker hue. Waiting for your reply lovingly, Gerty Kendrick * * * * To the Editor: We feel that It Is our sacred duty to inform you that there is a communist writing for your newspaper. No names will be mentioned, but if that fellow who wrote the article .about our radio show last Friday isn't a commie, then · America is no longer the land of the free. Not only did this so-called journalist give the wrong name of the show,. a mista-ke that could only be made by a communist parrot, but he used a bunch of words which no decent person could understand, much less allow to be. spoken in his Very home by his own chi'ldren. And, last of all, his name wasn't the name of an American, it was the kind of name pinko for!:igners have, We hope you will help us in rooting out these weeds jn the garden of dernocracy, weeds which grow rartk in the minds and hearts of innocent young Americans, by seeing that this .pervert doesnjt write another . word for yoQr newspa-per. God Bless You. · .· ·· · Lest~rx. Boh~~'n Zeb W. B~oggimi * * * * . ' ' BLITHER .· Need a ride or riders? Then bring this information to WRUC before 10 P.M. on Wednesday. We will take all ride information we receive and air it Thursday morning at 8:15 · and again at 9:15. Be sure to include your name, how you can be reached, where you are going, a1d when you wish to leave. * * * * The Big Brother and Big Sister P'togram will sponsor movies fm its members at I o'clock this Saturday, Feb. 5. The movies will be shown in SS 016. Road- Runner cartoons will be shown along with the feature \Finian's Rainbow.\ Refreshments will be served and all interested students are urged to attend. Volunteers are still desperately needed for the program, and if you have any questions, please contact Marie Bednar at Bronner house, 370- 0274, or John Calender at Phi Gamma Delta, 346-6597. * * * * Do you have a car? Will you be going skating at the Girling Center any Tuesday or Thursday evenings or Sundays? Could you give me a ride, please? If the answer to all the above questions is. yes, please call Becky .at 370- 0414. Thanks! * * * * Ate you against the 60% tenure limit? Please help fight it! Sign the petition at the circulation desk in the library. * * * * Student Senate Reform Continued from Page 1 of two representatives f1 om each class, the elected President and Vice-President of the student body. and one member elected at large. A corollary change would require that, as has been done in the past. class representatives .be chosen in general election. In most cases. asserted Sherman. town meetings would not be needed. Steering committee members could learn general student sentiment concerning less important issues at the open hearings and then vote accord.ingly. The town meetings, however. would be most useful in co:nsidering problems equal in magnitude to coeducation. parietals or the Spring of 1970. · Sherman organized the reform committee, consciously seeking diversity in its members. There was equity in class representation on the fifteen member committee, as well as · a wide range of opinion concerning paths for Senate reform. The final proposal, the result of four weeks of discussion, emphasizes the importance of the individual in the college community by providing a more representative outlet for student views. Disturbed by the lack of Student Senate power and by the fact that the Senate ~·as not a truly representa t i \e body. Irt the attempt to keep the students as well informed as possible, the proposal includes a stipulation that minutes ·of all steering committee meetings, open hearings and town rfleetings be distributed to each student through campus mail. This would, according to the proposal. facilitate student response to committee decisions ..

A Surprise _.Quiz, Clqss CONCORDIENSIS, February 1, 1972 Page 3 . Peskin ·On China ... i by MIKE MESEROLE Okay class, cut the chatter and: dear the desks ~ iCs time;: £or a little quiz. I hope you were paying attention to the Iectmes and out~ide reading of the last four weeks,. because this is a test on' January, 1972. I realize. that pride. and integrity are tradition here at the Air Force Academy, so the answers are at the conclusion and you're all on the honor code~ Good luck, and if you must go to the bathroom, please raise your hand and wait for the monitor to recognize you. I. According to a January Gallup PoU, which sport is the current National Pastime? (a. Baseball; b. Footb·an; c. Basketball; d. running for President; e. hijacking airplanes; £. ·reading about Howard Hughes). For the third in its series of ' discussion grollps, fh.e International Relations Club will present this Thursday · . night . at 7:30 in SS US a f~c~lty papel which will . . d~scuss the topic, . '\Nationalism Y!!. Internationalism.\' The distinguished members of this panel will be Professor Snider - Philosophy, Prof. · Nichols - Political Science, Prof. Graves ...... Psychology. · and Prof. Walbek - Po'litical Science. Each will give a short talk, after wbicb it is hoped a meaningful dialogue can be. developed among the audience and membel'!> of the panel. There will be a short period of informal discussion, with refreshments, after the meeting. ll. Which two: ·young ladies were nominated . to the United Sta,tes Nava~l · Academy last month? (a. Bella Abzug; b. Geraldine Jones; c, Valerie Schoen; d. l3arbara Jcr Brimmer). IU. ·In mid-January, it was announced by . the Motion Pi~ture Herald that this actor was the number one Box Office. Star of 1971: (a. John Wayne; b. George C. Scott; c. Hugh Beaumont; d. Clint Eastwood; .e. Huntz Hall; f. Sean Connery). lV. As o£ January 31, 1972, who is not a candidate for President? (a.· John Ashbrook; b. Vance Httrtke; c. Shirley Chisholm; d. Sam Yorty; e. Pat Paulsen; f. Harold Stassen). V. Who won the Super Bowl? (a. Miami · Dolphins~ · b. New York Giants; c. Dallas Cowboys; d, Don Carter). VI. Heavyweight Champion Joe Frazier successfully defended his title on· January 15th. Whom did he successfully .defend against? (a. Ingemar Johansson;. b. Kingfish Levinsky; c. Bruno · Sanmartino; d. Danny Terry; e. Terry Daniels; f. Terry Thomas). VII. As o£ January 24, 1972, how many American servicemen have been killed in action m Southeast Asia? (a. 23,637; b. 31 ,637; c. 45,637; d. 48,637; e. 62,637; f. 85,637). VIII. Who ts the current United States Ambassador to the Paris Peace Talks? (a. Gerard Smith; b. David Bruce; c. William Porter; d. Henry Kissinger). · IX. M:1tch the following people - (a. ·Bernice Gera; b. Abraham Tref£; c. Kurt Waldheim; d. C. Jackson Grayson; e. George H. Boldt; f. Dam Mintoff; g. Mary Scoblick) - with that which they are noted for - (1. Secretary-General of the U.N.; 2. Prime Minister o£ SPRING TERM COURSE ERRATA Additions to spring term offerings: I 032 Camp Ed 32 1214 Art 14 1411 Drama 11 1432 Drama 32 1441 Drama 41 2234 Latin I 34 2450 Economics 150 2821 History 121 4210 Political Science 10 5140 .Biology 140 5185 Biology 185 (New Course: Introduction to Modern Biophysics (Permission of department required.) Deletions £rom spring term offerings: 1031 Comp Ed 31 121.5 Art 15 2240 Latin 140 2625 English 125 · 2813 . History 113 2820 History 120 4443 Sociology 143 Already closed courses: 1034 Comp Ed 34 2449 Economics 149 (changed to spring frorn fall) Office of the Registrar: January 21, 1972 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ Peter Pause I ! Restaurant -~ ~ 535 Nott Street ~ ~~~~~----~ LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American Food 1125 BARReTT ST. Scheneetady 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzlihg Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktoil Bar The actot who owned this familiar face died last month. Who was he? (a. Leo Go.rcey; b. William Bendix; · c. Jerome Cowan; d. Bud Collyer). Malta; 3. the head of the Pay Board; 4. the N.Y. St;:J.te Cop·rt of Appeals' favorite baseball umpire; 5. one of the Harrisburg Seven; 6, the head of the Price Commission; 7. the whiz-kid Wise .guy dfWall St.). X. Who blew the whistle on Henry Kissinger's actiVIties d·pring the India-Pakistan War'? (a. Richard Nixon; b. Jack Anperson; c. Daniel Ellsberg; d. Jill St. John). XI. Who or what is Shoichi Yokoi? (a. John Lennon's step- daughter; b. Japanese £or Pepto Bismol; c. Premier Sato's hand- picked successor; d. a World War II Japanese soldier who. until last week, had been hiding on Guam for 28 years refusing to surrender to the Allies. ANSWERS TO THE QUIZ: I) b. II) c, d. III) a. IV) f. V) c. VI) e. VII) c. VIII) c. IX) a & 4; b & 7; c & 1; d & 6; e & 3; f & 2; g &. 5. X) b. XI) d. Picture) c. Please remember to number your blue books. Continued from Page 1 They are well provided for, being , though they inhabit 50 to 60 guaranteed food, clothing, shelter percent of China. and funeral expe~ses. ·Peskin, along with the Mr. Peskin observed that \the Stu'dents Delegation, met with people ate intimately involved in Central Committee Members, the way the country is including Premier Chou En-lai. functioning.\ At the factories Besides members of the often 70% of the Revolutionary dekgation asking questions of Committees, the organs of the the Premier, he asked questions state power, were composed of of them. He was concerned with the workers. Everything, he said. what was going on in the United is run for the interest of the States, particulady activities o£ people.- Most people therefore minorities, Viet Nam Veterans Willingly . cooper:at~ . wjth each and the status of women. other. Women in c'hina, especially Mr. Peskin's greatest difficulty those in industrialized areas. arc was in convincing members of supposedly equal to men. In a the audience that the children tex.tile factory visited by Peskin's were well taken care o£. He gmup, women ·were engaged in mentioned that the . thlldren he the · same kind of activities as saw in the elementary schools men, including that of and nur~eries were happy,· well- maintenance of equipment. In clothed, fed and educated.. He the hospitals. a .large number of said there was a close family the physicians were women. It feeling, though the.re appear~d to was conceded. however. that in be no matriarchal or patriarchal some agricult ura I areas there domination. Infants are often were still some ·problems with sent to boardi.ng care centers respect to equality lor women. though they are allowed to see These pr.ohlems. Peskin their parents weekends. and after mentioned. were hcing dealt with. a certain age they can ·return to Asked if the Chinese felt there live with them. Children ·at was a possihil'ity of a 11.orld v.ar, factory nurseries do get to see Peskin said that the Chinese felt their mothers during the day. that either a v.orld \\ar \\ould According to Peskin. the hring on a revolution or that a people of China were solving . remlution v.otlld pre\l'nl a \\orld their problems, as they are u·nited war. At any rate. the Chinese are on the basis of class. At the huilding underground tunnels lor Institute of National Minorities, protection in ease ot an attack. he learned· that there is little The Chinese. Peskin said. conflict between the sixty would not interfere in another national minorities that exist in country\ struggle tor liberation. China as they too. are united on They are\ illing ttl >Upply moral the basis of class. lt should he and material support. hut they noted that these minorities, will not try to a~~ert imperialistic including Koreans. Mongolians control o\er an) country. The) and Hans make up only 6 hclieve that countrie, v.ill liberate p.ercent of the population. themselves itthc) really want to. THE UN!TEO NATWNS F.DUCATHlNAL.SCIENTIFIC AND CUlTURAl ORGANIZATION q specwlized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace and $6 value $1.50value $ 5value all for only $6 ~ THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY a non-profit non-political organization dedicated to helping students to help themselves · offer STUDY ABROAD • New 19th Edition • EaGh copy is.trilinguar in English. French and Spanish . · • Paris, France, 1972 • 644 Pages The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO ~PPI,. Y! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by fmancial need! VACATION STUDY ABROAD • Each copy is trilingual in Engii:;h, French and Spanish More and more Americans are flocking over.seas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking numbers of young Americans will surge across Eur 0 r:~e this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults planning to undertake study or training abroad during their vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries! STUDEN:r AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered: • Scholarship information service, • Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! • Travel service. Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! ., Reference Service. Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc. frequently using primary sources available only in the Library of Congress! We do not actually write the fini-shed assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable educational experience and defeat the very purpose for \Your reference service saved me much valuable time which I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 As and 1 8.\ writing for oneself in the first place. We will prov1de background information and bibliographies which rank with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclo- paedia reference services available only with expens1ve sets. Limit of one draft at smalt additional charge, per semester per student in good standing. We cannot answer any question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner, nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or provide home study courses. CN, Ann Arbor, Mich \The lltmtage Point\ is a book put together by 5· gho~t writers and edited by LBJ. Your reference service Is almost like my own personal ghost writer. \ LC, Gainesvilie, Fla. \The 3 reference books of which every student needs personal copies are Study Abroad, a 1/()Gd dictions;y and thBUurus. I (lOt a $10,000 • 4-yur scholanhip from Study AbroMJ., AR, Btlfbl-,, 01/if. .------------------------ 1 Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 : l Friendsttip Station, Washington, D.C. 20016 1 I Gentlemen: I ei'lctese $6 for Study Abroad, ~ l Vacation Study Abroad and annual dues. 1 tName : I Address 1 I City, State . Zip : •------------------------

1' < Page 4 CONCORDIENS/S, Febroary 1, 1972 . Concordy ·Sports Swee~ Revenge-Ephs Fall, 88-41 by BILL HOLLERAN Bacher biltzed the Williams zone :by canning his first five shots in a row, aU of them soft IS- footers from the left side. The Dutchmen finally · knotted the score at 28 apiece with 5:32 remammg in the half, and another Bacher bucket boosted Union into a 30-28 edge m<>ments later. Tedisco's longer point play at the outset of the half, his l&st tallies of the evening, put the Dutchmen up 43- 37 before the two-man show began. Playing their finest baskethaU game since Union's hoop renaissance under Coa~h Gary Walters, the Garnet cage rs soundly shipped the Ephmen of Williams on Saturday night, &8- 71. The Dutchmen played gutsy ball, wiping out an early I 0-point Eph lead with hot shooting and superior defense, _and went on to score their seventh win in a row before a Wild, SRO throng of 3,500 fans at the Fieldhouse. Not only' did the win avenge last year's heartbreaking loss to the Ephrnen at Williamstown, out it gave Jim Tedisco the rubber match in his three-year duel with star Eph guard Vern Manley. Tedisco overcame a cold- shooting first. half to score 32 points, and his great defensive effort held Manley to a below- par 18 tallies. It was Manley's deadly outside shooting that helped to destroy the Garnet in Williams 92-85 win in 1971, which all but killed Union's post-season tourney hopes. The victory, II th in 13 starts for the red hot Dutchmen, also moved the Garnet up one notc.h in this week's New York St&te small coll~ge hpop ~ankings. The 11-2 Dutchmen polled 47 points in this week's ba-lloting to p'Iace second, 10 points ahead of surging Potsdam State and 13 behind front-running Brockport State. · With Union's smothering defense holding the Ephmen to just one field go&l in the f.irst nine minutes of the half, Tedisco and Walker were combining for 14 Union was tight at the start of the game, and the Ephrnen quickly capitaliz:ed behind the shooting of Manley, Dave Creen, a,nq Qav~ Creah&n. Williams roared into a' 7-o· lead with the Dutchmen standing around, wi~h their zone defense stifling Union's early attempts to get untracked. Tedisco shoots for two of hi.s 32 points, as Williams' Vein Manley looks on. The Eph lead widened to 19-9 before the Garnet finally began to swing the momentum their way. With the. · Dutchmen chipping away, at the Eph lead behind the shooting of Tom Bacher, the Williams' margin slowly but surely began to evaporate. jumper J-USt before the buzzer · gave the Garnet a 38-36 halftime lead. Bacher hit nine of II field goal attempts in the first half, but he was shut off in the \second stanza as the Eph defense keyed well on him. The junior settled for 21 points· on the ·evening. While • Bacher was , being b~t~ ~ ~ t~ ~0~ ~~ Tedisco and Geoff Walker were going bananas. Bacher's three Mariners Sink Garnet Swimmers by PAUL CONNORS Photo by Jpn Philipson points which upped Union•s lead to 57-43. Two of those points came on a beautiful assist by the 5-7 wonder, who spotted Walker all alone underneath for an embarassingly easy bucket. The Dutchmen were leading 60- 44, with 10:47 t.o play, when the Ephs began pressing in a last ditch bid to pull out the win. Manley started to hit jumpers from way outside a Ia 1971, and before long Williams had pulled to within six. Co-captain Creen's tap in made the score 67-61, and it looked like Union would not be able to handle the tough Eph full court press. Meanwhile, the Dutchmen were playing with three starters in deep foul trouble. Tedisco, Bill Carmody, and Mike Doyle were all playing with three fouls when The Garnet swimmers traveled to Kings Point for their first away meet Saturday. The Mariners. now 6-1. rolled the Mermen for a 74-38 loss. Union is now 1-J. Klinkow captured the winning honors in the 200-yard freestyle (2:05.1 ), and fellow co-captain Tom Hough snatch<iid first place in the 100-yard freestyle with a :54.8. . the Ephmen started their rally. Backstroker Dave Bernat All three picked up foul number four as the game went down the stretch. Tedisco and Walker saw to it, however, that the Ephmen stayed at a safe distance. Walker, \the 'Rainmaker,\ tossed in six foul shots in a row from high altitude to help kill the Eph rally. Tedisco added two more free throws, and Walker broke through the Williams press to score .two unmolested layups, as the Garnet moved back into the drivers's seat, 80-69.' With 1:42 remaining in the contest, Red Auerbach would have lit 1:1p .a cigar at this point. Walker had two more baskets late in the game against the Eph press,. and his last hoop of the · contest with three seconds left gave him an eye-opening 25 points. He totaled 19 of his tallies in the second half, hitting six of 10 field goal attempts and seven of II free throws. Walker was also devastating on defense as always, contributing four steals to the Union cause. Tedisco overca,me a fairly cold (five for 12) first half to bucket 12 of 23 field goal tries. He now has 1 ,436 points in his varsity career, making him the all-time leading scorer in the Capital District. Tedisco needed a mere five tallies to pass Rich Margison's 1966-69 total of I ,409 points going into the contest. Between the three of them, Walker, Bacher and Tedisco hit 31 .of 53 field goal attempts - a cool 58% performance. Overall the Dutchmen shot ·55%, connecting on 35 of 63 shots. Williams hit at a 49% clip, 29 for 59. Creen played a fine game for the Ephmen, totaling 22 points and hauling down 10 rebounds. Dick Small chipped in with eight grabs as Williams outrebounded the Garnet, 45-43. Doyle was the leading rebounder for the Dutchmen with 12 heists along with his four points, while Bacher added eight rebounds to his 21 point performance. Foul-plagued Bill Carmody finished with five pojnts, and Chuck Abba contributed two in relief of Tedisco. Union's seven-game winning streak is on the line tonight in Hartford, Connecticut, as the Dutchmen meet the Bantams of Trinity at 8:00 p.m. For those of you who enjoy playing with comparative scores, Williams recently scored a 40-point victory over the Bantams. Does that make the Garnet 57 points better than tonight's foe? Howie Misses Pin, Matmen Lose, 17-16 by MINNER It finally looked like things were going Union's way Saturday at Kings Point. The whole team was assembled for a wrestling match, .and yes, Alan Calabro was not only alive and well, but he was wrestling. At 134, but still he was wrestling. Perhaps the team was psyched by the memory of last year•s thrilling come from behind victory at Alumni Gym, where it took a win and two falls in the l&st three matches to nip a tough Mariner team. Perhaps it was the shame they felt towards themselves for turning a championship season into a disastrous loss skein. Whatever it was. they came to wrestle; once again, however, it just was not enough. Bruce Freeman showed extreme' dedication by coming down from 134 to wrestle in Calabro's usual 118 class. He responded with a 4- 2 decision. Captain Mark Zullo answered the call with a 9- 4 win, and suddenly it looked like last season again. Calabro this time was wrestling after Zullo, but it did not seem to make any difference to him, nor did the added weight of his opponent. He opened an insurmountablec lead, then went for the pin. He got it, but the official scorer deemed it was recorded after the buzzer. What seems to have occurred is that Calabro pinned the man, the referee's hand went in an upward sweep to signify it, the buzzer sounded, then the hand came down. A fifteen point decision gave the Garnet four points, and the score stood Union 10, Kings Point 0. And then, like at Jericho, the walls came a tumblin' down. In six matches, the Garnet managed to lose five and draw one. In the latter, Gary Morris was robbed of an escape, a very costly decision. The score stood Kings Point 17, Union 12~ Coach McMurray's sLJuad. since the beginning of the season. has been training to improve their individual times, and true to their style, the team carne through with some admirable performances. 200-yard Individual Medley swimmer Mitch Weisburg paced a 2:18.6 in his event. but placed second to the Point's 2:17.2. shaved some seven seconds off his previous meet times in the 200-yC(rd backstroke (2:33.1 ), but was forced to take second when Mariner Paul Aten finished first with a 2:26.8. Throughout the meet. the heats p-roved. to be very close. The Point had one distinct advantage: it had the judges in their hip ,pocket. The meet was a t·ravesty of swimming incompetence. The timers and starter appeared never to have at tended a swim meet before Saturday. The judges looked and pr.oved to he equally incompetent. Frosh Hoopsters Los~ 73-51 To Williams' freshmen It came down to Howie Benedict. Howie needed a pin, his oppo·nent needed only not to be pinned. Howie scored 13 points, ·'his opponent scored none. The Mariner was on his back for the entire opening period. Howie won the match and four points for his team, but in reality his opponent had defeated him. Like the entire team, Howie had come close but fallen short. Kings Point 17, Union 16. Weisburgh also swam the 500- yard freestyle in good form to take third place. with Union co- captain Tom Klinkow fourth. The Intramural track meet will be held in the Field House next Tuesday and Wednesday, February 8 and · 9, at 4:30 P.M. Schedules in~y be obtained in Coach Lawrence's office. Entries for racketball and handball must be submitted to Coach Lawrence's office no I later than Monday, February 7, 1972. _j last but not least. the Dutchmen were hampered by only 15 inches of water in the shallow end of the academy's · pool t:O .execute flip turns. Even the infamous Foote Pool is by ·faT better! The Mermen return home this Wednesday to face Trinity. Hopes are running high for a win. and many close heats appear likely. Action starts at 3:00p.m. by FRANK DELUCIA Trailing virtually all the way. the Dutchmen Frosh took a · resounding beating from a tall and talented Williams squad 73- 51. As they groped at the quick Ephmen. Charlie Gugliotta and Jack Comerford attracted three fouls, and ne\:er resembled their usually effective selves. Gugliotta was to get only two field goals all night while ,the impressive opposition stifle-d Union's guards with a crushing press. With eleven minutes to go in the 'contest,' the depressing absence of an outlet pass for a nonexistent · yearllng fastbreak bought Coach Bill Scanlon a technical foul and upped the William's lead 52-31. At this point. the visitors mercifully lifted their press and most of their starters. The Garnet followed suit by placing substitutes Tony Bangs. Greg Luntz. Mitch Kahn, Marc Czajkowski, and ~ob Pfiferling on court. Outscoring the Williams scrubs 14-10, the quint looked respectable with Pfiferling commanding play. The 3-4 Frosh visit Trinity tonight. SPECIAL DISCOUNT l To Union Studertts GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street The Garnet's next match if Feb .. 9th at Colgate. ATTENTION Faculty & Staff DELMONICO 55 Cu. Ft. REFRIGERATORS Available on Rental Basis for Your Office Call 459-7200 M Ca PE at del dif an1 Ha ad1 so chc nu fer eel chl bal int fill aln vat the are eve tha W< dir' des ch< Ma unc Pa1 goi the an< me ~ staJ can reg Atl pia WI th G wi ne Rt re1 Ce or, co ne at lll( we

Page 4 CONCORDIENS/S, February 1, 1972 . Concordy Sports Sweet Revenge-Ephs Fall, 88-41 by BILL HOLLERAN Playing their finest basket ball game since Union's hoop renaissance under Coach Gary Walters, the Garnet cagers ~oundly shipped the Ephmen of Williams on Saturday night, 88- 71. The Dutchmen played gutsy ball. wiping out an early !{)-point Eph lead v. it h hot ~hooting and superior defense .. and went on to score their seventh \\in in a row before a wild. SRO throng of 3,500 fans at the Ficldhome. Not only did the win avenge last year\ hearthreaking Jm, to the Ephmen at Williamstown, but it ga\e .lim Tedi,co the rub-ber match in hi' three-year duel with 'tar Lph guard Vern Manley. I edi,co O\en:ame a cold- 'hooting fir!'>t half to scon: 32 pomh. and his l!reat defensive etlort held Manley to a helow- par I H ta !lie,. It \1 as Man ley\ dead I) ouhide shontmg that helped to destro) the Ciarnet in \\ illiarm lJ2-X5 v. in in 1971. \1 l11ch all hut killed l' mon\ post-sL'a son tourney hopes. The victory, 11th in I J starts lor the red hot Dutchmen. also mO\ed the Garnet up one notch in this week's Nev. York State small college hoop rankings. The 11-2 Dutchmen polled 4 7 points in this week\ balloting to place second, 10 points ahead of surging Potsdam State and 13 behind front-running Brockport State. Union was tight at the start of the game. and the Ephmen quickly capitafited behind the shooting of Manley, Dave Creen, and Dave Creahan. Williams roared into a 7-0 lead with the Dutchmen standing around, with their zone defense stifling Union's early attempts to get untracked. The Eph lead widened to 19-9 before the Garnet finally began to swing the momentum their way. With the Dutchmen chipping away at the Eph lead behind the shooting of Tom Bacher. the Williams' margin slowly hut sure I): hegan to e\aporate. Hacher blitzed the WiUiams zone by canning his first five shots in a row, all of them soft IS- footers from the left side. The Dutchmen finally kHotted the score at 28 apiece with 5:32 remammg in the half, and another Bacher bucket boosted Union into a 30-28 edge moments later. Tedisco's longer point play at the outset of the half, his last taJ!lies of the evening, put the Dutchmen up 43- 37 before the two-man show began. With Union's smothering defense holding the Ephmen to just one field goal in the first nine minutes of the half, Tedisco an.d Walker were combining for 14 Tedisco shoots for two of his 32 points, as Williams' Vern Manley looks on. jumper JUSt before the buver gave the Garnet a 38-36 halftime lead. Bacher hit nine of II field goal attempts in the first half. but he was shut off in the second stanza as the Eph defense keyed well on him. The junior settled for 21 points on the evening. While Bacher was being bottled up in the second half. Tedisco and Ge0ff Walker were gomg hananas. Bacher's three Photo by Jon Philipson points which upped Union's lead to 57-43. Two of those points came on a beautiful assist by the 5-7 wonder, who spotted Walker all alone underneath for an embarassingly easy bucket. Mariners Sink Garnet Swimmers The Dutchmen were leading 60- 44, with 10:47 ~o play, when the Ephs began pressing in a last ditch bid to pull out the win. Manley started to hit jumpers from way outside a Ia 1971. and before long Williams had pulled to within six. Co-captain Creen\ tap m made the score 67-61. and it looked like Union would not he a hie to handle the to ugh E ph full court press. Meanwhile. the Dutchmen bJ PAl'I. CONNORS Ihe (iarnt't sv.immers tr:l\eled to K1ngs Point tor their first awa~ meet Sat urda~. The Marmer,. nov. n-1. rolled the Mermen lor a 74-3X In\. t:nion is nm1 1-.\l. ( 'oach \1c Murray\ sq 11 ad. Klinkow captured the v.inning honors in the 200-yard I reestyle (2:05. I). and fellov. co-captain Tom Hough ~na tched first pla.ce in the 100-yard freestyle \\ith a :54 X Baekstroker Da1e Hernat were playing v. ith three starters in deep foul trouble. Tedisco. Bill Carmody. and Mike Doyle were all playing v.ith three fouls when the Ephmen started their rally. All three picked up foul number lour as the game \lent do\\n the stretch. Tedisco and Walker saw to it, however, that the Ephmen stayed at a safe distance. Walker, \the Rainmaker,\ tossed in six foul shots in a row from high altitude to help kiH the Eph ra]lly. Tedisco added two more free throws, and Walker broke through the Williams press to score two unmolested layups, as the Garnet moved back into the drivers's seat, 80-69. With I :42 remaining in the contest, Red Auerbach would have lit up a cigar at this point. Walker had two more baskets late in the game against the Eph press, and his last hoop of the contest with three seconds left gave him an eye-opening 25 points. He totaled 19 of his tallies in the second half. hitting six of 10 field goal attempts and seven of II free throws. Walker was also devastating on defense as always, contributing four steals to the Union cause. Tedisco o\ercame a fairly cold (five for 12) first half to bucket 12 of 23 field goal tries. He now has I .436 points in his varsity career, making him the all-time leading scorer in the Capital District. Tedisco needed a mere five tallies to pass Rich Margison's I 966-69 total of I .409 points going into the contest. Between the three of them, Walker, Bacher an.d Tedisco hit 31 of 53 field goal attempts - a cool 58% performance. Overall the Dutchmen shot 55%, connecting on 35 of 63 shots. Williams hit at a 49% clip, 29 for 59. Creen played a fine game for the Ephmen, totaling 22 points and hauling down 10 rebounds. Dick Small chipped in with eight grabs as Williams outrebounded the Gamet, 45-43. Doyle was the leading rebounder for the Dutchmen with 12 heists along with his four points, while Bacher added eight rebounds to his 21 point performance. Foul-plagued Bill Carmody finished with five points, and Chuck Abba contributed tv.o in relief of Tedisco. Union's seven-game winning streak is on the line tonight in Hartford, Connecticut, as the Dutchmen meet the Bantams of Trinity at 8:00 p.m. For those of you who enjoy playing with comparative scores, Williams recently scored a 40-point victory over the Bantams. Does that make the Garnet 57 points hetter than tonight's foe'? Howie Misses Pin, Matmen Lose, 17-16 by MINNER It finally looked like things were going Union's way Saturday at Kings Point. The whole team was assembled for a wrestling match, and yes, Alan Calabro was not only alive and well, but he was wrestling. At 134, but still he was wrestling. Perhaps the team was psyched by the memory of last year's thrilling come from behind victory at Alumni Gym, where it took a win and two falls in the ltlst three matches to nip a tough Mariner team. Perhaps it was the shame they felt towards themselves for turning a championship season into a disastrous loss skein. Whatever it was. they came to wrestle; once again, however. it just was not enough. Bruce Freeman shov.ed extreme' dedication by coming down from 134 to wrestle in Calabro's usual II R class. He responded with a 4- 2 decision. Captain Mark Zullo ansv.ered the call v.ith a 9- 4 win. and suddenly it looked like last season again. Calabro this time was wrestling after Zullo, but it did not seem to make any difference to him, nor did the added weight of his opponent. He opened an insurmountable lead, then went for the pin. He got it, but the official scorer deemed it was recorded after the buzzer. What seems to have occurred is that Calabro pinned the man, the referee's hand went in an upward sweep to ,;ignify it, the buzzer sounded, then the hand came down. A fifteen point decision gave the Garnet four points. and the score stood Union I 0, Kings Point 0. And then. like at Jericho. the walls came a tumblin' down. In six matches, the Garnet managed to lose five and draw one. In the latter, Gary Morris wa~ robbed of an escape, a very costly decision. The score stood Kings Point 17. Union 12. It came down to Howie '>lllCL' the heginning nt the season. ha~ heen training to tmpnl\e their mdi\ idual time~. and true to their style. the team came through v. Ith some ad nma hk pntormances. 200-~ ard ~Inned some ~e\ en seconds off h1~ pre\ ious meet t 1mes in the 2(JO-yard hacbtroke (2:33.1 ). hut v.as forced to take second when Manner Paul Atcn lini~hed first ''ith a 2:26.X. Throughout the meet. the Frosh Hoopsters Lose 73-51 To Williams' Freshmen Benedict. Howie needed a pin. his opponent needed only not to be pinned. Howie scored 13 points, his opponent scored none. The Mariner was on his back for the entire opening period. Howie won the match and four points for his team. but in reality his opponent had defeated him. Like the entire team. Ho\\ie had come close hut fallen short. Kings Point 17. L:nion 16. I nd i\ id ual \1 ed k~ ~ \\ i mrner Mitch Weishurg paced a 2: 1X.6 in his t'\Cnt. hut rJaced second to t hi.' Point\ 2 1 7 2. \\'l\1~hurgh aJ,o \\lam the 500- \ard lree'>t\ie 111 !!nod lorm ((l take thml plart. \lith t·ni<lll l\ll· capta111 I (llll K IJnkn\1 fourth The Intramural track meet ~ill be held in the Field House nnt Tuesda~ and Wedne~da~, Februar~ 8 and 9, at 4:.'0 P.,l. Schedules rna~ be obtained in Coach La'\rence\ office. Entrie' fur racketball and handball mu.,t he .,ubmitted to ( oach I.a~rencr\ office no later than \londa~, FebruaQ 7, 1972. I -~-------1 heab pro\ed to he \cr~ close. rhe Point had one diqinct ad\antage: It had the JUdges in their h1p pocket. !he mcet 11as a t r a \ c ' t ~ ol s '' 1 m rn 1 n g incompetence. !he timer-. and ..,tarter appeared nc1er to halt' atterH.kd a s\I!In meet hl\fore Saturda~. !he JUdges looked and prn\ed tll hL' t'Ljllall~ mrompetent. I a't hut rh>t k'<l,t. the I >utl·hrncn \len: hamptrcd h~ on!\ l.'i mche-, of \\ater In tilL' ,halllll\ end ul the acadcm~ ·.., pllol tll t\\l\L\lltL' !lip tUrth. I 1 l'll the llllalll!lll' hH1te l'ool Is h\ far hctter' I he \krmcn return home th1\ V.L·dnL'>tLt~ t(l lace fnnn1 Hopl'' <Jrt' r llltrllll).! lllf.!h lor a \\Ill .• md man\ clo-.c heat' appeal II k e 1\ .·\ ct 1 on 'r art .., at 3: 00 r. m . b) FRA:'\iK DEUTIA Trailing 'irtually all the \\a~. the Dutchmen I-rosh took a resounding heating from a tall and talented Williams squad 73- ~1. ·\, the~ grupl\d at the qwck I phmen. Charlie (iugliott.J and .lack ( ·omertord attractL'U thret' louk and nc\L'l resemhil'J their u-,uall~ etkcti\L' >t'hcs. (iugl!otta \\as to get onl~ 1\\o licld guals all night \\htk the llllprc-.sr\e tlppusit it'll >III kJ ! Tlllln\ guards v.11h a aushm,l! rrt''' With ele\Cn mmutes to !!O 111 the \contest.' the dcprL'\'>Illf.! ahsence nt an outlet pa\ lnr a lltllll'\ Isll'nt ~earling last hrL\1 k hnught C>ach Bill Scan Inn .1 tl·chlllcal ft>ul and upped the William's lead 52-31. At this point the \ isitors me rei fully lifted their press and most of their starters. lhe Garnet follo\\ed suit hy placing suhstitutes Ton~ Rang~. (ireg Luntl. !\.1itch Kahn. \1arc Cnl]ktn\skt. and Rob l'lilerlmg on court. Outscoring the \\\iliJarm scruhs 14-10. the quint looked respel't.Jhk \\Jth Ptilcrlmg wmmandmg pia\. lhl' 3-4 J-ro,h \isit frin1t~ ton1ght. SPECIAL DISCOUNT l To Union Students 1 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street The Ciarnet\ next match if hh. 9th at Colgate. ATTENTION Faculty & Staff DELMONKO 55 Cu. Ft. REFRIGERATORS Available on Rental Basis for Your Office Call 459-7200 ;t ~ I I ·r ~ I :i •i rr .I 'I li f i r L : j '. 'I !I\ ~ I • ~ ¢ .. ' ,;; ~ ~ ~- M Ct PI at de diJ an H: ad so eh nu fer eel ch ba int mt alr va tht an eV( th< Wr dir de! ch~ M: un Pa goi the an~ me l sta car re,!1 Atl pla Wr th G w ne R, re 0 or co ne at ml Wt

a n h y f 1 ' ' ~ ' I I Founded· at Union College 18'17 Vol10l, Na. 27 - ·· SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK --~~~--~~~~---------- FEBRUARY 4,1972 Price Twenty Cents The Cadillac\ is now rivaling Nott Memorial as the most interesting campus landmark. Situated in the· parking lot behind Davidson House, the {ar featur:es rme flat tire, · open windows. one- missing directional signal and no license plates. - · · _ It's .anybody's guess as to who is (was) the owner, and perhaps the diverse library books on the rear seat will give a clue. How about some action, Campus police? Photo By Bob Johnson New Mountebanks Production-Peace The Union Co·llege between forces of Sparta and Athens at Library Plaza on Saturday, February 5 at high noon. The reason for this dramatic scenario will be to publicize the abduction bf Peace, a female character in Carmine's musical, by the forces of War, which as we all ·know seem ·to be so prevalent in the world. The titanic struggle will be broadcast by WRGB. In-side View Living In West College: Reasons for the Madness . by BOB SPERRY It sits alone, gray and menacing, challenging all (or any) to enter. By night strange sounds filter through its forbidding walls, causing casual passers-by to quicken their pace . and hurry toward their appointed destinati_of1s. Strange rumors about it abound, and .. decent\ people avoid it like. the plague. Filth and degradation are believed to run rampant · there, and its inhabitants are shunned by the outside world. For those of you who haven't guessed, the location described is our own West College. And although the description is admittedly rather corny, it is also much closer to the truth than it first appears. If you tell a friend that you've decided to live in Fox House or Richmond, your friend will· probably then ask which room you picked. Mention to the same friend, however, that West Cqllege wi\1 be your home for the upcoming academic year, and you will be immediately greeted with a horrified expression and an \Oh my God! Why?'• After explaining that West is much less expensive than the other dorms, you will be asked, \But is it reaily Worth the money you'll ·save?\ Later after going through your entire financial situation to prove that you really can't afford another place, your friend will pat you on the back and murmur, \Don't worry, you can still visit me in my plus four-man suite.\ With these words, he will leave, ·never to be seen again unless you make the pilgrimage across campus to his· living quarters. magnitude of my problems could never be compared with those of a ghetto-ite. Hcwever, several similar problems do exist, and their existence helps me to understand the frustration felt by our city's minorities. Mountebanks present AI Carmine's music~l comedy PEACE beginning February J4, at 8:15 p.m. PEACE is a delight-ful combination of many different stYltfs of m~Jsic - jazz,· anthem, and take~offs from Hande-l· and Gershwin. In addition to. the repertoire of songs, there is much choreography included in each number. Such things as rituals of fertility, primitive tribal religious celebrations, throwbacks to charleston and cake walk, a ballet, and soft shoe are intrinsically related to the musical style of the show. It is almost reminiscent of the old vaudeville shows - or at least the' old' minstrel shows. Students· Demonstrate Why do our fellow students behave like this? It's simple, right? After all, everyone knows that people in West run naked through its decaying halls, smashing doors, writing on walls, destroying college property. Aside from that, the inhabitants are more than likely unwashed morons with no respect for either their own rooms ot decent women. These generalizations may sound ridiculous, but in my I Yz year stay in West I have heard them all uttered fairly seriously in one way or another by various people on campus. It is no coincidence that these charges against West dwellers are identified with minority ghetto dwellers; for if North and the fraternities can be labelled upper class sections, with Richmond, Fox, Davidson, and South considered middle-class housing, West College truly stands as Union's ghetto. One problem faced both in Harlem and West College is the inequality of distribution of municipal services. Just as garba,ge trucks and firemen steer clear of inner city districts, so do Union College maintenance men loath West. If something is broken or damaged you can be sure that it will be left that way for months. A good example exists on second floor West, south side. In the bathroom on that corridor there is one shower stall with three shower heads, which could easily serve the twenty-nine people it was intended for. I say it could serve them, exc.ept for the fact that out of three shower heads only one fun<;tions properly. The two others appear to be in working order, but as a friend of mine found, one uses them at the risk of life and limb. He. started showering with one until the force of the water dislodged the handy~dandy removab:le sprayhead (which was not intended to be removable). The heavy piece of metal missed his head by a few inches and came in contact with the other wall. Not easily dismayed, my friend moved to the other broken shower, which also worked properly for a few seconds until the normal spray mysteriously At Recruiting Station All aspects of the production are beginning to shape up as an even more ambitious enterprise than last term's ONDINE. Working in conjunction with directoJ,\ . Barry Smith and designer Charles Steckler are choreographers Gail George. and Mary Jane Dike. Voice training,. under ·the guidance of Gary Parks and Sally Sears Mack is going remarkably well, in spite of the unusual amount of sickness and injury among the. cast members. M-ountebanks product~o.ns staffs have been antagomzmg campus feelings with the articles regarding the Spartl,lns an<l the Athenians' war. To this end, they plan to stage . an actual conflict The recently formed Union College chapter of the Student Mobiization Committee (SMC) held a meeting last Tuesday night to make plans to , picket _ and leaflet in front of the Air Force Recruiting Station in Schenectady. According to plans made at that time, students from Union and high schools in the area, people fro-m the Schenectady Peace Centir; and anyone else interested iri stopping the war would picket and leaflet from II a.m. to 1:00 p~m. on Wednesday. The city manager was consulted and permission for the demonstra-tion was granted. No civil disobedience was Ski ~Group Tests Meiffmrs For The National ,,itrol The Union College Ski. Patrol approaches mid-season this weekend with its first group of members testing for membership in the National Ski Patrol this weekend at North Creek Ski Area (Old Gore). Under the leadership of Ginny Bade, the patrol group assists with the patrolling of local ski areas, and oversees the training of new membersofthe National Patrol. Students wishing to join the patrol should begin their American Red Cross First Aid cour;:ses now, and have them completed before returning td school next fa:ll. Both the Standard and Advanced Certifications are requirements for membership in the national organization. Information regarding First Aid can be obtained by contacting Mike Goler ~t 370-0651 (259 Davidson House). The next standard course begins next Wednesday evening, February 9, at 7 P.M. in the Schenectady American Red Cross Chapter House. Other information can be obtained by coming to a, patrol m:eeting 1 heia: every Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 in SS115. All are welcolnet planned, and participants were instructed not to enter the building. Three leaflets were prepared, one on the air war, one concerning general SMC position, and m:te dealing with statements from a press release on Nixon's January 26 speech. Also, Father Murphy showed slides on the air war. \' V{eclnesday, students arrived at the Air Force Recruiting Station to find it closed. The students, together with members of the Schenectady Peace Center and members of the local Mothers for Peace moved to the Army and Marine Corps Recruiting Stations. ·About 30 people participated in the demonstration, and about 500 leaflets were distributed. In a short meeting after the demonstration, members of the SMC decided to continue this type of action and join with the Peace Center in its activities. The SMC will be launching a national campaign to \tell the truth about the· war\ to the American people. On Feb. 25-27 at Washington Irving High School in New York City, the SMC, in conjunction with student leaders from every section.of the country, will hold a National Student Antiwar Conference to organize massive opposition to the \Nixonization; of the war on every college campus and high school in America. I firmly believe that the time I have spent in West has acquainted me with many of the problems faced by a city ghetto dweller, although, of course, the Continued on Page 3 Experimental Introduction To Pol'itical Science Offered The Political Science Department has announced the offering of an experimental section of Political Science 10 to .be given this sprivg ... The Politics of the 1970's\ is the theme for the course, which will be team-taught by Professors Nichols, Sharlet, Walbek, Tidmarch and Department Chairman Board, wlio is also handling the overall organization and intergration of the course. Covering a wide variety of topics, the course will attempt to develop an interaction among the students and faculty which would lea<! to valuable discussions. Included in the course are the following areas: 1, TheWard-Heelerand the Visionary: Two Approaches to Policy; 2, Political Impediments to the Future of Spaceship Earth; 3, The Politics of the Third World: Political Development or Decay; 4, Political Culture in the United States and the U.S.S.R.: Prospects for Change; 5, American Politics and the Environmental Crisis; 6, American Elections and Public Opinion in the 1970's. The course is being initiated as an attempt to offer non-political science majors (at whom the course is directed) an introduction to the general and specific p01icy problems facing the United States and the world in the 1970's, and so it will concentrate on comtemporary issues. Varying class techniques are being considered, and at present at least one simulation has been included . in the syllabus. The motivating idea behind the course, according to Professor Board, is a desire to find out if courses specifically designed for non~ majors, with less emphasis on the professional aspects of the discipline, can be a valuable part of the depaitment's curriculum. By .examining the ways in which students with other fields of concentration view politics, it will become possible \to offer as many people as possible an exposure to politics in a way interesting to them.\ Since the course had not been planned on previously, there has been no chance up until now to pre~register for it. All students who are interested in the course are encouraged to do so at the R$:gistrar's office now.

m, all ts. or or ur ht ill h 0 is n d 0 0 e e 'j ~ I '! n I '~ ' I :i 'i rr .I 'I li t i t ~ I '' ; I Founded at Union College /877 VollOl, No. 27 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK --~--~-------------------- FEBRUARY 4,1972 Price Twenty Cents The Cadillac\ is now rivaling Nott Memorial as the most interesting campus landmark. Situated in the parking lot behind Davidson House, the rar features one flat tire, open windows, one missing directional signal and no license plates. It's anybody's guess as to who is (was) the owner, and perhaps the diverse library books on the rear seat will give a clue. How about some action, Campus police? Photo By Bob Johnson New Mountebanks Production-Peace The Union College between forces of Sparta and Athens at Library Plaza on Saturday, February 5 at high noon. The reason for this dramatic scenario will be to publicize the abduction of Peace, a female character in Carmine's musical, by the forces of War, which as we all know seem to be so prevalent in the world. The titanic struggle will be broadcast by WRGB. ------------------------------------ Inside View Living In West College: Reasons for the Madness by BOB SPERRY It sits alone, gray and menacing, challenging all (or any) to enter. By night strange sounds filter through its forbidding walls, causing casual passers-by to quicken their pace and hurry toward their appointed destinations. Strange rumors about it abound, and \decent\ people avoid it like the plague. Filth and degradation are believed to run rampant there, and its inhabitants are shunned by the outside world. For those of you who haven't guessed, the location described is our own West College. And although the description is admittedly rather corny, it is also much closer to the truth than it first appears. If you tell a friend that you've decided to live in Fox House or Richmond, your friend will probably then ask which room you picked. Mention to the same friend, however, that West College will be your home for the upcoming academic year, and you will be immediately greeted with a horrified expression and an \Oh my God! Why?\ After explaining that West is much less expensive than the other dorms, you will be asked, \But is it really worth the money you'll save'!' Later after going through your entire financial situation to prove that you really can't afford another place, your friend will pat you on the back and murmur, \Don't worry, you can still visit me in my plus four-man suite.\ With these words, he will leave, never to be seen again unless you make the pilgrimage across campus to his living quarters. magnitude of my problems could never be compared with those of a ghettu-ite. H~wt>ver. ~:vera] similar problems do exist. and their existence helps me to understand the frustration felt b) our city's minorities. Mountebanks present AI Carmine's musical comedy PEACE beginning February 14, at 8:15 p.m. PEACE is a delightful combination of many different styles of music - jazz. anthem, and take-offs from Handel and Gershwin. In addition to the repertoire of songs, there is much choreography included in each number. Such things as rituals of fertility, primitive tribal religious celebrations, throwbacks to charleston and cake walk, a ballet, and soft shoe are intrinsically related to the musical style of the show. It is almost reminiscent of the old vaudeville shows - or at least the old minstrel shows. Students Demonstrate Why do our fellow students behave like this? It's simple. right? After all, everyone knows that people in West run naked through its decaying ha lis, smashing doors, writing on walls, destroying college property. Aside from that, the inhabitants are more than likely unwashed morons with no respect for either their own rooms or decent women. These generalizations may sound ridiculous. but in my I Y2 year stay in West I have heard them all uttered fairly seriously in one way or another by various people on campus. It is no coincidence that these charges against West dwellers are identified with minority ghetto dwellers; for if North and the fraternities can be labelled upper class sections, with Richmond, Fox, Davidson. and South considered middle-class housing, West College truly stands as Union's ghetto. One problem faced both in Harlem and West College is the inequality of distribution of municipal services. Just as garbage trucks and firemen steer clear of inner city districts, so do Union College maintenance men loath West. If something is broken or damaged you can be sure that it will be left that way for months. A good example exists on second floor West, soBth side. In the bathroom on that corridor there is one shower stall with three shower heads. which could easily serve the twenty-nine people it was intended for. I say it could serve them. except for the fact that out of three shower heads only one functions properly. The two others appear to be in working order. but as a friend of mine found, one uses them at the risk of life and limb. He started showering with one until the force of the water dislodged the handy-dandy removable sprayhead (which was not intended to be removable). The heavy piece of metal missed his head by a few inches and came in contact with the other wall. Not easily dismayed, my friend moved to the other broken shower, which also worked properly for a few seconds until the normal spray mysteriously At Recruiting Station All aspects of the production are beginning to shape up as an even more ambitious enterprise than last term's ONDINE. Working in conjunction with director Barry Smith and designer Charles Steckler are choreographers Gail George and Mary Jane Dike. Voice training, . under the guidance of Gary Parks and Sally Sears Mack is going remarkably well, in spite of the unusual amount of sickness and injury among the cast members. Mountebanks productions staffs have been antagomzmg campus feelings with the articles regarding the Spartans and the Athenians' war To this end, they plan to stage an actual conflict The recently formed Union College chapter of the Student Mobiization Committee (SMC) held a meeting last Tuesday night to make plans to . picket and leaflet in front of the Air Force Recruiting Station in Schenectady. According to plans made at that time, students from Union and high schools in the area, people from the Schenectady Peace Center, and anyone else interested in stopping the war would picket and leaflet from I I a.m. to I :00 p.m. on Wednesday. The city manager was consulted and permission for the demonstration was granted. No civil disobedience was Ski Group Tests Me·m~bers For The National Patrol The Union College Ski Patrol approaches mid-season this weekend with its first group of members testing for membership in the National Ski Patrol this weekend at North Creek Ski Area (Old Gore). Under the leadership of Ginny Bade, the patrol group assists with the patrolling of local ski areas, and oversees the training of new members of the National Patrol. Students wishing to join the patrol should begin their American Red Cross First Aid courses now, and have them completed before returning to school next fall. Both the Standard and Advanced Certifications are requirements for membership in the national organization. Information regarding First Aid can be obtained by contacting Mike Goler at 370-0651 (259 Davidson House). The next standard course begins next Wednesday evening, February 9, at 7 P.M. in the Schenectady American Red Cross Chapter House. Other information can be obtained by coming to a patrol meeting, held every Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 in SSI15. All are welcome! planned, and participants were instructed not to enter the building. Three leaflets were prepared, one on the air war, one concerning general S M C position, and one dealing with statements from a press release on Nixon's January 26 speech. Also, Father Murphy showed slides on the air war. •· Wednesday, students arrived at the Air Force Recruiting Station to find it closed. The students, together with members of the Schenectady Peace Center and members of the local Mothers for Peace moved to the Army and Marine Corps Recruiting Stations. About 30 people participated in the demonstration, and about 500 leaflets were distributed. In a short meeting after the demonstration, members of the SMC decided to continue this type of action and join with the Peace Center in its activities. The SMC will be launching a national campaign to \tell the truth about the war\ to the American people. On Feb. 25-27 at Washington Irving High School in New York City, the SMC, in conjunction with student leaders from every section of the country. will hold a National Student Antiwar Conference to organize massive opposition to the \Nixonization\ of the war on every college campus and high school m America. I firmly believe that the time I have spent in West has acquainted me with many of the problems faced by a city ghetto dweller, although, of course. the Continued on Page 3 Experimental Introduction To Political Science Offered The Political Science Department has announced the offering of an experimental section of Political Science 10 to be given this spring. ••the Politics of the I 970's\ is the theme for the course. which will be team-taught by Professors Nichols, Sharlet. Walbek, Tidmafch and Department Chairman Board, who is also handling the overall organization and intergration of the course. Covering a wide variety of topics, the course will attempt to develop an interaction among the students and faculty which would lead to valuable discussions. Included in the course are the following areas: I, TheWard-Heelerand the Visionary: Two Approaches to Policy; 2. Political Impediments to the Future of Spaceship Earth; 3, The Politics of the Third World: Political Development or Decay; 4, Political Culture in the United States and the U.S.S.R.: Prospects for Change; 5, American Politics and the Environmental Crisis; 6, American Elect ions and Public Opinion in the 1970's. The course is being initiated as an attempt to offer non-political sc;ence majors (at whom the course is directed) an introduction to the general and specific p01icy problems facing the United States and the world in the 1970's, and so it wilt concentrate on comternpmary issues. Varying class techniques are being considered, and at present at least one simulation has been included in the syllabus. The motivating idea behind the course, according to Professor Board. is a desire to find out if courses specifically designed for non- majors. with less emphasis on the professional aspects of the discipline. can be a valuable part of the depat1ment's curriculum. By examining the ways in which students with other fields of concentration view politics. it will become possible \to offer as many people as possible an exposure to politics in a way interesting to them.\ Since the course had not been planned on previously, there ha~ been no chance up until now to pre-register for it. All students \\ho are interested in the course are encouraged to do so at the Registrar's office now.

PatJe 2 CONCORDl.ENSlS, February 4; 1972 · Editor•in•Chief Louis S. Snitkoff \370-4956 ~·eatu res Editor ' Matthc\ S-llaflt Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photography Editor Da ·, c l\onr.e} News Editor Hov.ard Stone Asst. Managing Editor ·Gail W. Goodman 'Ma~aging Editor Doug Wong 346-9735 Business Manager Joseph P Ac.:henbaum Asst. Business Managet Michael Hurlc1 Subscriplion Manager Thomas J. Conic~ N;tional Advt. Manager Un~mploy_f!J~nt_a~~- Nixon: New Priorities· Neetled by LES GOLDMAN accepted Keynesian economic dollar~ in the future. What this practices, and he has decided to does is commit manpower ;:~hd obtain full emp-loyment,. economic power to finish these primarily by increasing defense started projects. The bi-g-· d'ispu·te spending. over the SST is .an example of The final Point is the real crux this kind of situation. AsSt. Photo Editor Scott (iordon Contributing Editor\ William Holleran Mike Me;erolc Peter Bickcrman Mark Shulman _ ,. STAFF: Bob Johnson, l..arry Wharton, Jon Philipson, Bill West!Jeimer, Ste\\e f:nte, Rivhard Kern, AI Reisch, Joe I The time ha~ come for innovation. During the 1968 presidential election, I probably would not have written that. The late political scientist Clinton Rossiter often discussed in his hook the theory that American politic~ are cyclical. The Democrats take power and carr) out a variety of social programs. Two ptesidenti,al terms (sometimes more, sometimes less) later the RepublicaAs take power and then pFoceed to create some order out of the mess that the Democratic socia-l policies create. of the p~oblem of having a Innovative leadership, on the t ec hn oe rat as Pres id en t. other hand, would realize that Although the President has there are also domest·ic technical started discussions with the problems that could be hand'led Russians and Chinese to lead to by these same companies. his guaranteed \generation ·of Manpower could be committed peace,\ he has not translatea this now to solve ·such problems as into a change of economic policy urban mass transit, bettoer at home. methods of controlling various Munkofski, George S. Bain, Jod} Saslow, Charles l.ong, Tim I Cain, Mark MacDonald, Reid Russell, Paul Connors, l'h~.llh J A few months ago, a phrase types of pollution, better Edelman, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, ('hrh Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, I.e~ (;oldman, Rosemary Ri\ce Don ·Kaplan, I Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Jeff Weilburg In a manner of speaking, thi·s is what happened in l968. A Republican, whose claim to fame would be his expertise . in management or a,t least careful planning was elected President. Richard Nixon has been the perfect technocrat. 1\his has outraged his conse~rvat ive supporters because he has accepted most of his Democratic predecessors' practices. He has that was much discussed was a procedures to recycle used \change of priorities\ for the materials, etc: While this may not nation. A president who wants to initially r~-,employ all those get the country out of economic people who have lost their jobs sl\.)mp .before an election and due to eat.lier cuts. in new defense who is essentially a technocrat projects, it surely would be able will not be one who changes our to employ them and. many others priorities. He will only do what in the future. More than that, was done before, usually by the this type of .policy would get Democrats, that is, boost defense away from being dependent on <Spenf!ing. What is really needed war or military projects to. keep is innovative leadership that goes the economy working in the Puhlr~hed 1 uesday~ and Fnday~ dllnng the school year by the student body ol IJmon College. Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Rcpre!>entattve. Natrona! Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Puhlr~hers Representative. 360 Lexington Ave., N, Y .C. Editorial office, Old Gvrn, linton College Puhhcat10n Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, 1\.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Clas~ Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cent~ a copy $H a year delivered anywhere in the Umted States. To the Editor: It is unfortunate that Gerry Kendrick took offense when ·I thanked him for coming to our c0ffee. If he had been standing next to me as all the resident ad visors were leaving, he would have heard the same words several times. Since the RA's are invited to bring students from their areas, it seemed only gracious to thank them for the effort. We thoroughly \enjoy meeting all the students in this relaxed way and will continue to welcome them in our home. Mrs. Edward J. MaUoy * * * * To the Editor: In response to Gerry Kendrick's letter (February I): On the night in question the Dean of Student's wife invited the guys in my living unit, who just happen to originate from various ethno~cultural, religious and, yes, even racial backgrounds, to this same gathering. Moreover, as l was leaving and paying my respects, the Dean's wife likewise said to me, 'Thanks for bringing your people by, Mike.\ indeed the case, then to quote one of the writers of Zap Comix, \something is rotten in the state of Denmark.\ Mr. Herman. is representative of the best a c0llege can offer, a voice from reality, if I may be permitted to use the phrase. In denying Mr. Herman tenure the college has demonstrated its · stance on the value of practical education and the threat of the ivory-towered learning pr.:>cess rears its ugly head. The academic fools who permit such a thing to happen are denying us an important portion of our education, the opportunity to hear the voice of achievement and knowledge in many facets of public and private finance. Someone once said, \forgive them for they know not what they do.\ In this case I'm not in much of a forgiving mood, because they know damn well what they're doing. Ducky Radon-Miller * * 'li * To the Editor: We wish to respond to your Concordiensis article of January 25th, and Mr. William Cook's letter of January 28th. policy regarding the keeping of animals on campus. in exchange for the willing participation of pet owners in a campus association dedicated to the problem. We have queried other colleges in the region, and have talked to many pet owne.rs and other persons involved in the matter, including Dean fvialloy, and firmly believe that such an association is the only answer. We feel that such an association should act to care for the pet contingent of our community, while at the same time allowing it to relate in a · wholesome manner with the human section. It would seem appropriate for every pet owner (including fraternities) who brings his animal(s) to the ·campus with him, to declare his responsibility. Every animal should have one person beyond what has been done future. · before. The Federal budget The problem, in the final provid·es a p0werful incentive for analvsis. is not that the President many of the largest companies of is ~ecessarily a mi-litarist in the country to get involved in outlook. He is simpl,y using the funded projects. As it stands same methods that have been now, the President's budget is used since Roosevelt to employ starting the funding of a people. The time has come for a multitude of new military ·change in methods. One can only proiects that will cost bi'llions of hope that it will c0rne soon. Beginning Monday, February . 7, there will be continuous food service in Hale House from 7:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Regular breakfast will be served · from 7:30-9:30 a.m. and continental breakfast {coffee, donuts, English muffins, juice) fr.om 9:30-11 :30. Regular Jurich will be served from 11 :30 to 1:30 and dinner will be from 5-6 p.m. as usuaL Additionally, new traffic flow will be instituted to eliminate some of the congestion in the serving and checkout lines. * * * * organizing. Blacks~ whites, men or women who want to. work in this predomi.nantty \black situation, .'See Frankr islet,: Steve Spellma-n, Mark. · Coven, or Professor· David Snider. Make appointments for· inte~vi~ws with David Snid~r. it: * * * On February I 0, at 8:00 Nick Brignola and the Non•Prophet Organization will p.erform in a jazz concert at the Cardinal McCloskey High School. Admission is $2, * * * * Small Inner City Elementary On February I 1, from 9 a.m. School needs students to help to 3 p.m. there will be with a special Choice- Time representatives of the U.S. Activities Program. Four Fridays Marine Corps Officer Selection in March from I to 2:30 p.m. Team in the Placement Office to Skills like guitar, music, drama, interview interested students. language, sports, scientific * * * * experiments, art, are all needed Applicatio;;-s for Resident This remark failed to Upset me or cause any great concern on my part: I merely accepted it in the spirit in which it was given. But Mr. Kendrick's remarks did strike a nerve because I feel they are unwarranted and have no pertinence to the incident which he relates. It is fine to preserve one's integrity When he thinks it is called for, but in this case there was no attack; indeed, there Was no other side. To begin with we concur with Mr. Cook and wish to underline the values of sharing the Union College campus. with organisms other than ourselves. The issue of pets at Union College is a complicated one. Local healtb officers, people with allergies, nervous lecturers, sensitive roommates, those fearful of freely ranging boa constrictors and other more commonly maintained pets, those who have been bitten, and finally thuse who, to put it nicely, object to having the lawns and other walking surfaces \abused\ are just part of the problem. Abandoned and ill-cared for animals, damaged rooms, and financial liability for the college constitute other problems. accountable for its care, who will .in turn be responsible to roomtrlates, floormates, and the College at~large for problems wh1ch may arise. We would also like to think that pet owners would cooperate with their roommates and others in terms of not committing any person to sharing a pet unless he wants to. Unless Dean Malloy can experience the establishment of a responsible pet O'Wners association, it seems inevitable to us, that he can be nothing else but restrictive in his directives on campus pets. He is but defending the facilities of the college, and speaking for those who may object to pets for one reason or another. In closing, may we underline that we are not haters of dogs, cats, and boa constrictors; rather, we are concerned with sustaining a campus where pets and humans can live and learn te care for one another. to augment the skills of the Adviser may be picked up ,at the classroom teacher in order to Residence Pr-ograms office in form classes of ten children or Fox House. Return dea4line is less. Call the school principal at February 14. · -\\'~ 393-8770 if you can help. * * * * Riverside School is near enough Schenectady Community Head . for you to commute by foot. Sta.rt Program, 327 Summitt * * * * Avenue needs your help working Tryouts for two one-act plays, with 3·5 year olds preferably The Man Wi!li ~he Flower hi Jl~ . :wornings. For more information )\1puth:'hy Ltt~gl; PirartdeUo: and: ·~please call177-8539. · - Adaptation ·6Y. Elaine May,:wiil * *: * * be held Monday and Tuesday, · · Mrs. Nadler has a bicycle February 7-S from 3:30 to 5:00 26\ racer which she Wishes to p.m. Sign-tip sheets ·and scripts giv$! away. It heeds repair·. work, are in the green room of the Nott but she wants to· give it away. Sincerely, Michael Kornstein * * * * To the Editor: Over the course of the past few days, I have heard some rather distressing news. The word is that Mr. Robert S. Herman of the economics department has been denied tenure and will not be with us next year. If this is How are we to resolve such a complicated situation? We propose a much more liberal TUTORS NEEDED • IN MATH & CHEMISTRY APPLY between 2 and 4 AT TUTORING OFFICE, OLD CHAPEL .... .. : : : : Sincerely, Subcommittee on Pets Environmental Resources Committee P.S. Viva Bubbles! ATTENTION Faculty & Staff DELMONICO 5 Cu. Ft. REFRIGERATORS Available on Rental Basis for Vour Office. Call 459-7200 Memorial. Everyone is welcome. Anyone interested should call her • * * * at 317-9036. · Summer jobs in Atlanta at Community Action and Education House. Great Pay: $25 per Week plus room and meals, and transportation to Atlanta and back. Participate in youth programs - educational and recreational - and welfare rights Graobart & Sons may run smaU ads, but they have big values. ~•t:• . ·::=-. ~:~;~~.,;:.::.::~ (·\'~· SPECIAL DISCOUNT To Union Students GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street SKIDMORE &. UNION spendspring vacation in B£RtnUDfl Schenectady's famous 5199 P.S. - trips to diaJPond sbqp, . . . Puerto Rico, Nassau (for three generatloaa) and up & Acapulco availabie 1&61ay S&. THREE UNION GRJ\,OUATES CONTACT LOUISE AT SKIDS IN. F AM(L Y .. , _t. .I • ; • . ~84-500 .... ext. 505, od87•l571

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 4,- 1972 <ttnnrnr Editor-in-Chief Loui~ S. Snitkoff '370-495(1 ·Managing Editor Doug Wong 346-97.~5 Fl'atureo. Editor \1attMc·\\ \\·<rt.l .\e\\ 1-:ditur f~tmard Stone' Acting Sports Editor \l.u~ \ltnJd Photograph~ Lditc·Jr I l,t ·. ,. ( \n rn .·h\t. \lana~ing 1-.ditor (rtt 1 1 \\ CJthJdfJld!! Ru,ine,., .\bnager .l<~,cph P \dtc·nhactll' Ao;.~t. Bu~in<'\ \lanaget \ltl\ll ll elfin :\o;.~l. Photo Editor '-;colt t iordon ( ontributing Editor' \\ Illt.l/JJ I iulkr;m \1rkl' \lt:-.~rok l'ct<:r Btd,l'l rna11 ~ubscriptiun \ianager I horna, .r Cunlt:~ .\atiunal Ad't. \lanager \lark ShLtlman ~·1 AF~: Bnb John'>on, l..arr~ \\hartun, Jon l'hilip~on, Hill \\e\theimer, Stt>H' Ente. Hichard Kern. AI Hei'>rh, Joe \lonkof\ld, Georgt• S. Bain, Jod.'< Sa~lo'l-\, Charle., Long, lim Cain, \lark \lacDonald, Heid Russell, Paul (onnof!>, Ph~llh Edelman. Jim ~mith, Jim Rostcnherg, C'hri-. \landt>\ille. hank I>el.ucia, I.e~ c;oldman, R.osemar~ Rice, Don Kaplan. nita \.1urandi, Barbara \lcDona;ld,l'att~ Sipe, .Jeff \.\eifhurg . l'uhll\hed 'lue~da~' and 1-nday~ Clunng the school year by the student' hod\ o! ! nwn College. Schencctad:. ~ Y., 1\atJOnal Advcruswg Rerrc\cntatJH:. '\atronal Educational Advert1,rng Servu.:c. Inc., College Puhll\her, l<•:prc>entatJW. 3f>O l.extn~on Ave, '· Y C. Edrtolial office, Old Cr\TTL I n1on ColiC)!<: J>uhlrcal!on Offtce, The World PubiJcatJom, 7' I ~tate '>tn:ct, Schencctad\. \ Y t 2307, 346-2:!56 Entered Jn the \rhenectad\ rmt olfrce a~ Second Cia~, Mall Matter Sub,cnruon 2U n·nr' a copy ~X a \e.tJ delivered anywhere m the United Stare:, To the Editor: It t~ unfortunate that (ierr~ K~ndrick too~ nfkn't.: when I thanked h1m for comin!,! to our cnf fee. It he had he~n standing next to me a~ all the resident ad\ i~or' \\~rl· le<ning. he would ha\e heard the 'arne words ~e\eral times. Since the RA 's are invited to hring students from their areas. it seemcd only gracious to thank them for the effort. We thoroughly enjoy meeting all the students in this relaxed way and will continue to welcome them in our home. Mrs. Edward J. Malloy * * ... * To the Editor: In respome to Gerry Kendrick's letter (Fehruary I): On the night m yuestion the Dean of Student\ wife invited the guys in my li \ ing unit. who .JUst happen to originate from \arious cthno-cultural. religious and. ye~. e\r:n racial background,. to this sa me gathering. \vtoreo\er. as I \\.as le;l\ mg and paying my respects. the Dean's wile li kewi,e 'aid tn me. \Thank:-. for hringing ~our people h~. \.1 i ~e.\ indeed the case. then to quote one of the writer' of Zap Comix. \somethiNg is rotten in the 'tate of DeNmark.\ Mr. Herman is representatiw of the hest a college can offer. a \Oice from reality. if I may he permitted to use the phrase. In denying Mr. Herman tenure the college has demonstrated its stance on the value of practical education and the threat of the ivory-towered learning pr .)Cess rears its ugly head. The academic fools who permit such a thing to happen are denying us an important portion of our education. the opportunity to hear the voice of achievement and knowledge in many facets of public and private finance. Someone once said. \forgive them for they know not what they do.\ In this case I'm not in much c)f a forgiving mood, hecause they know damn well what they're doing. Ducky Rulon-Miller * * '!! * To the Editor: 'We v.ish to re~pond to your Concordiensi!t article of Januarv 25th. and Mr. William Cook;-. letter of .January 28th. U nemploy_ttJ ent and Nixon: New Priorities Needed by LES GOLDMAN The time has come for innovatioll. During the 196~ presidential election. I probably v.ould not hm e written that. 1 he late political 'cientist Cii Nton Rmsiter often discussed m hi, hoot the theor~ that -\m:.•ncan polrtio are c\ciicai. lhe Democrat~ take po\\er and earn out a \ariety of social progrmns ·Two presidential tertns (some.times more. sometimes less) later the Republicans take pm1er and then proceed to create so1ne order out of the mess that the Democratic social policie~ creatr:. In a manner of speaking, this i' what happened in 196S. A Repuhli.can, whose claim to farne \\. ould be his expertise 1 n management or at least careful planning wa~ elected President. Richard \ixon ha~ been the perlcct technocrat. This has outraged hi, cons en at i1e 'upporll'r' hecau~e he ha~ accepted most nf his Democratic predeces~ors, practice-. He ha~ accepted practices. obtain primarily spending. Keynesian economic aNd be has decided to f.u II e m pI o y m e n t. by increasing defense \I he final point is the real lTU\ ol the problem ot h<!\ ing a technocrat as President. Although the President ha, started discussion~ with the Russians ana Chinese to lead to hi, guaranteed \generation of peace,\ he has Not translated thi~ into a change of economic policy at home. A few months ago, a phrase that was much discussed was a \change of priorities\ for the nation. A president who wants to get the country out of economic slump before an election and who is essentially a technocrat will not be one who changes our priorities. He will only do what was done hefore. usually by the Democrats. that is. !Joost defense opending. What is really needed i~ innolati\e leadership that goe~ beyond v. hat ha~ heen done hdorl·. The Federal htrd~et pro11Je-. a pm\crtul lllCCnl!\t\ for many of. the largest companies of the country to get involved in funded projects, As it stands now, the President's budget is starting the funding of a multitude of ne\\ military proiects that will cost billions of dollars m the future. What this does is commi.t manpov.er and economic power to finish these started projects. The big dispute O\er the SST is an example of this kimd of situation. Innovati\·e leadership. on the other hand. would reali1e that there are also domestic technical problems that could he handled by these sa me companies. MaNpower could he commiued Now to solve such problems as urban mass transit, better methods of controlling various types of pollution, better procedures to recycle used materials, etc. While this may not initially re-employ all those people who have lost their jobs due to earlier cuts in new defense projects. it surely would be able to employ them and many other., in the future. More than that. this type of policy would get away from being dependent on war or military projects to keep the economy working in tht.' future. I he pruhle:n. 1n thl· !iml analysts. i~ not that the Presid~nr is necessarily a militarist in outlook. He is simply using the same methods that have been used since Roosevelt to employ people. The time has come for a change in methods. One can only hope that it will come soon. policy regardiNg the keeping of\ animals on campus, in exchange for the willing participation of pet owners 1n a campus association dedicated to the probkm. We have yueried other colleges in the region, and have talked to many pet owners and other persons involved in the matter, including Dean Malloy, and firmly believe that such an association is the only answer. We feel that such an association should act to care for the pet contingent of our community. while at the same time allowing it to relate in a wholesome manner with the human section. It would seem appropriate for every pet owner (including fraternities) who brings his animal(s) to the campus with him, to declare his Beginning Monday, February 7, there will be continuous food service in Hale House from 7:30 a.m. to I :30 p.m. Regular breakfast will be served from 7:30-9:30 a.m. and continental breakfast (coffee. donuts, English muffins, juice) from 9:30-11:30. Regular lunch will be served from II :30 to 1:30 and dinner will be from 5-6 p.m. as usual. organizing. Blacks, whites, men or women who want to work in this predominantly black situation, see Frank isler, Steve Spellman, Mark Coven, or Professor David Snider. Make appointments for interviews with David Snide:r. responsibility. Every animal should have one person accountable for its care, who wi II in turn be responsible to roomrtlates, floormates. and the College at-large for problems wh1ch may arise. We would also like to think that pet owner., would cooperate with their roommates and others in terms of not committing any person to sharing a pet unless he wants to. Unless Dean Malloy can Additionally, new traffic flow will be instituted to eliminate some of the congestion in the serving and checkout lines. * * * * Small Inner City Elementary School needs students to help with a special Choice- Time Activities Program. Four Fridays in March from I to 2:30 p.m. Skills like guitar, music. drama. language. sports. scientific experiments, art, are all needed to augment the skills of the classroom teacher in order to form classes of ten children or less. Call the school principal at 393-8770 if you can help. Riverside School is near enough for you to commute by foot. * * \' * Tryouts for two one-act plays. * * * * On February 10, at 8:00 Nick Brignola and the Non-Prophet Organization will perform in a jazz concert at the Cardinal McCloskey High School. Admission is $2. * * * * On February II, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. there will be representatives of the U.S. Maiine Corps Officer Selection Team in the Placement Office to interview interested students. * \' * * ' Applications for Resident Adviser may be picked up at the Residence Programs office in Fox House. Return deadline is February 14. * * * * Schenectady Community Head . 1 hi, remark failed to upset nw or cau~e any great cont.:ern on m~ part: I merely accepted it in the spmt in which it was gl\ t.:n. Hut l\1r Kendrick\ remarks did strike a nerve hecau~ I feel they are um\arranted and ha \e no pert mence to the incident \\ hich he relates. It i' fine to preserve one's integrity when he thinks it is called for. but in this case there was no attack; indeed, there was no other side. ro begin with we concur with Mr. Cook and wish to underline the \alues of sharing the Union College campus with organism~ other than ourselves. The issue of pets at [Inion College is a complicated one. Local health officers. people with allergies. nervous lecturers. sensitive roommates. those fearful of freely ranging boa constrictors and other more commonly maintained pets. those who have heen hitten. and finally those who, to put it nicely, object to having the lawns and other walking surfaces \ahused\ are just part of the problem. Abandoned and ill-cared for animals, damaged rooms. and financial liability for the college constitute other problems. experience the establishment of a responsible pet owners association. it seems inevitable to us, that he can be nothing else hut restrictive in his directives on campus pets. He is hut defending • he facilities of the college, and ~peaking for those who may object to pets for one reason or another. The Man With the Flower in His Mouth· by Luigi· Pirandello and Adaptation by Elaine May, will be held Monday and Tuesday, February 7-8 from 3:30 to 5:00 p.m. Sign-up sheets· and scripts are in the green room of the Nott Memorial. Everyone is welcome. Start Program, 327 Summitt Avenue needs your help working with 3-5 year olds preferably mornings. For more information please call 377-8539. * * * * Mrs. Nadler has a bicycle - 26\ racer which she wishes to give awa). It needs repair work, but she wants to give it away. Anyone interested should call her at 377-9036. Sincerely. Michael Kornstein * * * * To the Editor: Over the course of the past few days. I have heard some rather distressing news. The word is that Mr. Robert S. Herman of the economics department has been denied tenure and will not be with us next year. If this is How are we to resolve such a complicated situation? We propose a much more liberal TUTORS NEEDED IN MATH & CHEMISTRY APPLY between 2 and 4 AT TUTORING OFFICE, OLD CHAPEL .... In closing, may we underline that we are not haters of dogs, eais, and boa constrictors; rather, we are concerned with sustaining a campus where pets and humans can live and learn to care for one another. Sincerely, Subcommittee on Pets Environmental Resources Committee P.S. Viva Bubbles! ATTENTION Faculty & Staff DELMONICO 5 Cu. Ft. REFRIGERATORS Available on Rental Basis for Your Office Call 459-7200 * * * * Summer jobs in Atlanta at Community Action and Education House. Great Pay: $25 per week plus room and meals, and transportation to Atlanta and back. Participate in youth programs educational and recreational - and welfare rights Graubart & Sons - moy run small ads, but they have big values. _.u: ·:::n:.. ~· ........ ~ .• _.!'(: •.. \.: .. ...,_<4 Schenectady's famous diamond sllop, {for three generations) 166 Jay St. THREE UNIO.N GRJ.\,DUATES IN FAM!LY : SPECIAL DISCOUNT To Union Students GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street SKIDMORE & UNION spend spring vacation in BfHffiUDfl S199 P .S. - trips to Puerto Rico, Nassau and up & Acapulco available CONTACT LOUISE AT SKIDS 584-500 - ext. 505, or 587-1571 . f ' ; . I I I i ~· ' . i ll l: 1 ' 'I ~

Nhat this and these dispute of , . on the that technical handled blems as better various better used may not those jobs be able y others that, uld get on to. keep in the final rist in ing the e been employ for a only men in ·black or Make with Nick in a a.m. be u.s. c.e to dent t the in is king to her .. CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1972 Page J . V , · f ''U ,, ' Gh tt _,, f -· th· · I s'de lews~.Q :~1P n:r\~\ s e o .rom-- .·,~· ... n 1 Will someone please empty the wastebasket? Continued from Page 1 changed, hitting him in the face with the intensity of a fire hose and knocking him across the room· until · he too, came in contact with the wall. As ridiculous as this incident may appear, it actuaJly happened. Bbth of these showers have been broken in one way or another since last year, but absolutely nothing has been done despite many comp1aints by the floor's R.A. Maintenanee men did visit the ' bathlioom , over Christmas, but · insteai:l of repairing the · · showers or the bathrootn~s ·broken ·door, they de.cided to fix a leaky faucet'. (I · shouldn't complain, though, since the faucet had also been leaking since last year.) If this example doesn't seem sufficient, check the bathroom window broken by snowballs over three weeks ago, or the fire doors that don't close, or the broken outside door, or the pile of dead fish that sits on the rear entrance to the dorm. Of course, many people will argue that most of the things wrong in West are the fault of its residents. l am perfectly willing to go along with this argument, bi,It not for the reason that the dorm's occupants are animals incapable of.anything else. If this were true Fox, Davidson and South would be almost as bad, ·since most people who leave West go on to live in these dormitories. the reason for the destruction in West is the same as the reason for ghetto riots; the incredible frustration one feels at the treatment he is given. My ex- :r.oommate, who also lives in ·West, showed me a tag he found ol) the mattres·s the Housing Office saw fit to give him in replacement of the . ~broken mattress the room came with. The tag stated that the ··new\ mattress had been restuffed and renovated by a local company. There was also a section which read - Date Sterilized, 8-13-65. In other- words, as many as six different people have used that mattress since it had to be sterilized, and its been God only knows how many years sine(! it has been restuffed. (I'd be afraid to ask how old the mattress actually is.) Incidents like this are common and they all add to the .J) The words of the prophets are written on the ::;-I< · 4 ~ ' /\ • t ' tenement wa 1 lli: · · ·· ~ \ ';! ·Q' It- \l' '-~' .11'\\ ~- I ~ • T 'l I' :' f'r l, ~ 'i., ~ It & frustration that West residents feel. I realize that we pay less than North residents do. but we are still members of the Union College community, and we are entitled to the same service that the rest of the college receives. But as long as West is treated unequally, the <;oJlege can expect the frustration (and destruction) to conti,nue. All Photos h,r Bill Westheimer Inmates try to barricade themselves in second floor lounge.

Nhat this and ish these dispute of on the li1e that technical handled blems as better various better used may not those jobs defense be able y other.. that. u ld get jcnt on to keep tn the: ltna I rn mg the been employ e for a only men ork m black Steve or Make with Nick m a I. a.m. be u.s. ce to dent the m IS mitt king tion to her ' ; . I . ! I j! 'l H l i l \ f) I: I; I I ;~ I ' 'I l: 1 ! CONCORD/ENSIS, February 4, 1972 Page 3 Views of ttUnion's Ghetto\ From the Inside Will someone please empty the wastehasket? Continued from Page I changed, hitting him in the lace with the intensity of a fire hose and knocking him across the room until he too, came in contact with the wall. A~ ridiculous as this incident may appear, it actually happened. Both of these showers have been broken in one way or another since last year, but absolutely nothing has been done despite many complaints by the floor's R.A. Maintenance men did visit the bathroom over Christmas, but instead of repairing the showers or the bathroom's broken door, they decided to fix a leaky faucet (I shouldn't complain, though, since the faucet had also been leaking since last year.) If this example doesn't seem sufficient, check the bathroom window broken by snowballs over three weeks ago, or the fire doors that don't close, or the broken outside door, or the pile of dead fish that sits on the rear entrance to the dorm. Of course, many people will argue that most of the things wrong in West are the fault of its residents. I am perfectly willing to go along with this argument. but not for the reason that the dorm's occupants arc animab incapable of anything else. If thi~ were true Fox. Davidson and South would be almost as had, since most people who lea\e West go on to live in these dormitories. The reason for th;: destruction in West is the same as the reason for ghetto riots; the incredible frustration one feels at the treatment he is given. My ex- roommate, who also lives in West, showed me a tag he found on the mattress the Housing Office saw fit to give him in replacement of the ·broken mattress the room came with. The tag stated that the \new\ mattress had been restuffed and renovated by a local company. There was also a section which read - Date Sterilized, 8-13-65. In other words, as many as six different people have used that mattress since it had to be sterilized, and its been God only knows how many years since it has been restuffed. (I'd be afraid to ask how old the mattress actually is.) Incidents like this are common and they all add to the frustration that \\'est resident> fee I. I rea lite t h:tt \\ e pa) Je~, than '\orth re~idcnb do. htH \le are ~till member~ ot the l'nion College community. and we are entitled to the same service that the rest of the college receives. But as long as West is treated unequally, the College can expect the frustration (and destruction) to continue. Aft Photo.1 ht Bill JlcsThcimer ~··~.,.--..,·:~<=.,.,~*~~:'-~':t.':-':~x=::gr,~~'*-~ .. _.........,.. ..... ....,.,\\\'\'\\\\'-~-- Inmates try to barricade themselves in secondfloor !ounf{e. The words of the prophets are written on the tenement walls. -~ ' .,I'' ~·Y'\'\''''·\0%~~fiiifuti~~~--iii*

Page4 . Howie Benedict, heavy,.:eight, who has a 24-1-1 dual meet record in his year and d half at Union- College. Benedict is rated by Coach Gerry Everling as a · contenderfor national honors. photo by Jon Philipson SPORTS PROFilE Howie Benedict by MARK MINDEL This season with the Union College Basketball team not only boasting a 12-2 record, an eight- game winning streak, and second ranking in New York State, but also being broadcast throughout the Northeast by WGY radio, and even having one of its games televised by channel 17, it is no ~urprise that relatively few people on campus are buzzing with excitement over the usually explosive wrestling team. With this in mind, the opening two columns in this series were devoted to the Cagers. However, we can not overlci'ok the grapplers, and this week's SPORTS PROFILE, focuses on the infamous Howard Benedict, sophomore, the heavyweight on this year's 2-7 team. Howie Benedict is a name which brings some kind of emotional response to whomever hears it. There's been many a tale told of his days at Suffield Academy in Connecticut, and some of them are only remotely concerned with wrestling, some not at all. But those stories can be saved for elsewhere, for they concern, Howie Benedict the comic prankster. Here, we are concerned with Howie Benedict the wrestler. At Suffield, Howie lost his first varsity match as a sophomore. He was pinned by a wrestler named Gary Sklaver the defending state champ. In his sophomore year, he dropped three matches. Then he the match with the packed Garnet crowd howling from their feet. Against Colgate, Howie came up against a gorilla.' Expecting the battle of the year between two unbeaten heavyweights, a huge throng gathered to :witness the event. · The mythical champion went uncrowned as both men wrestled, weary of each other's powers, to a I-l draw. Against Sklaver, Howie wrestled extremely well, and many of the grapplers feel he was not awarded enough points in the close match. This season, Howie is 11-0, bringing his career mark at Union to 24-1-l. He has recorded two pins, ap.d, his clos~st match was a slim one to nothing ·win over Dartmouth's heavyweight. In what should be his toughest challenge of the year Howie will wrestle Amherst's Gary Sklaver, Saturday, Feb. 12 in Alumni Gymnasium. The match should be one of the most exciting affairs ever in Garnet grappling history. Howie's biggest asset has to be his tremendous crowd appeal. Alumni Gym was packed solid last season, and the big reason was Howie. During the lightweight and middleweight events Howie stretches out on the bench, his opponent watching nervously from across the mat. Bantams· Scare . Cagers by MINNER safe and sound. rebounding battle, 49-47. The few gathered Garnet fans Tedisco came home with 23 Jim Ted·isc0 was honored Thursd!ly with a sel~ction to the ECAC · Division :HI AU-star squad for his 64 points against Norwich and Williams. Geoff Walker was picked as an honorable mention, most likely for his great performance against Williams. It was Tedisco's first who travelled to Hartford , points to top ?.ll scorers, . while Connecticut for · what was Doyle led the battle of the boards supposed to be an easy hoop with 14. Carmody hit on five of victory found a surprising answer eight from the field and four of to the million dollar question four from ,th~ line to nef 14 posed in the last issue of ·points along w.ith. Walker . Concortly. The question? Does ·ooy'le turned in his usual good the fact that Union beat Williams performance. He' seems to shine by 17 points and Williams beat in. ~way ' cqntests, (Weslexan, Trinity by 40 I?oints,. make ~be R.P).,. ¥iddl~b.ury). , P,erhqps Garnet S7 points better ·than bec..ai.i.se 'tfte :Garnet have a little Trinity? more troubie fitiding tl:ie range iJi, -- ' il • - ' • .. selection, alfhougb ne ·was picked as. an·· ,.lloaoFabls::· mentron _ the we(.!K M:t~e· boyle:was ~elected. . 'Union's m;xt start· is Saturday in the fidd house a~inst a· hot and coid St. · Lawrence squad. The LatTies, only seven and eight this year are noted for their strong rebounding which '\could be . a big factQr a~ainst sma}ier Umon.. The Garnot wi)l be seeking to· extend. not only thejr current winning streak, but a str~tch of 11 straight victories in the field house. By the action seen last Tuesday foreign stadiums, and Mike chips night in Ferris Athletic Center in fr.oni underneath. He wa.s four the answeF is a definite, No! The for eight from the. field and five Trinity Bantams, 2-8, and for seyen f~;om the stripe, for 13 obviously not one ofthe tougher marke~'·, c;lluc~: · Abba addeq teams o·n the Dutchmen seven points. schedule, handed· Coach Gary Union hit on 33 of 73 shots Walters' cagers one· of their from . the field for 45%, while biggest scares of the ·season. Trinity dropped home. two less in Trailing 73-57 with 6:49 to go the same amou{tt of tries, for in the contest, the Bantams 42%. The Dutchmen . won the .pulled out of their 1-2-2 zone, and went into a lazy, full-court man-to-man defense. This overplay defense left gaping holes toward the basket and gave Union a one-on-one advantage in at least four if not every position. But the Garnet seemed content to remain away from the hoop in their patterned, \weaving-wheel\ offense, to eat up as much of the clock as they could. However, the Garnet lead kept dwindling, as the hot Bantams, led by guard Ron Duckett surged back. At 3:34 Duckett's hoop cut the lead to six, 76-70, and the momentum definitely belonged to Trinity. · A Walter's time-out could not cool down the Bantams, and Union, looking as confident as they did at Middlebury, could not even make lay-ups. At 2:37 a Duckett two-p9inter trimmed the margin to 78-75. Trinity then started to employ N.B.A. strategy by giving fouls, thus trading Union's chances for one point on a free throw for the Bantam's chances for two on a field goal. It failed. Willy Carmody· hit the first of seven straight Garnet charity tosses at 2: 14.\ At 2:02 strong Mike Doyle muscled away an errant Bantam field goal attempt, and Carmody made it 81~75 with two more accurate pressure free throws, the referee deeming the Bantam fc;ul intentional. Merman Sh:ove Trini~y lnto Swamps, 66-4 7 by PAUL CONNORS well behind with 66.70-83.95 and Following a Union basketball 59.95-77.45 respectively. win, the Garnet swim squad By the time · the 400:.yard handed the Barttoms of Trinity a frees~yle relay rolled try, 'the resounding 66-4 7 defeat Garnet swhhmers· were· enjoying Wednesday. Coach Bob a comfortable lead. The regular. Slaughter's 10-man squad move relay· squad of Eggleston, now to l-5, with · Union Weishurg, Klinkow and Hough, improving its record to 2-3. after tough individual races, The Dutchmen captured ·first entered as an ·exhibition team, places in some eight events, and with Union's official entry of Jeff seconds in seven. Union times Broomes (alias Dave Broomer), showed considerable im- \Chip\ Murphy, Diver Mark prove men t over past •' Foster (wh<;> finished with ·his performapces: Bruce Eggleston· top.gue-hangmg) and Sophomore sported a 13:25.6 in the 1000- new-comer Ric Siegel, placing yard freestyle, t~king second second with . a 4: 17.4 to the behind :Dutchman co-captain Bantom's 3:55.6. Tom Hough (12:48.2). The final event (unofficial) was Eggleston's t~me was four the repeat of the traditional seconds faster than his showing winning dunking. Who? Why in the Kings Point meet (13:29.5). Coa,ch McMurry of course! A Hough also captured the first jubilant team and coach enjoyed place honors in the 100-yard a \splashing good time.\ freestyle with a :54.2, well behind Union meets RPI February 8th however, his :~3.9 of the Norwich at the Engineer's pool, returning meet. Mitch Weisburg won both for the last home meet of the the 2~-Individual -:Medley and season February lith, when thfi the 500-yard freestyle (5:59.9), Mermen host. Rochester. . began a streak of 34 consecutive wins through his next two seasons. In his senior year, he went to the National Prep Championships. As his match approaches, eyes in the upperdeck turn away from the current match to catch Howie lazily doing a few jumpingjacks, a smile plastere.d across his face. When he steps to the mat, the stadium explode& with excitement. There could be very · little things which could please a Garnet grappling fanatic more than to see Howie Benedict's opponent o,n his back getting an excellent view of the ceiling in Alumni Gym, and the smiling fans staring right into the poor man's face. But Trinity kept coming as they cut the lead to four once again and retained possession. of the ball. At 1:39 Geoff Walker came up with a clutch defensive theft to ice the game. where in the I.M. he cut .2.6 seconds from his Kings Point time of 2:18.6. Union co-captain Tom . Klinkow slipped into second in the 500 with .a 6:10.0 (20 secon.ds faster ·than previous times) following a win of 2:04.1 in the 200-yard freestyle. Frosh ·Hoop ·Wins, ~63-6·1 by FRANK .DeLUCIA ... In the four matches leading up to the finals, he was unscored upon and his smallest margin of victory was nine to zero. In the finals, Howie lost by one point in a double overtime affair. At Union, Howie has been phenomenal. Last year he teamed with fellow frosh Alan Calabro and Mark Zullo for a combined record of 40 wins, four losses and one tie. Howie was 13-1-1 himself, his only loss at the hands of, you guessed it Gary Sklaver, now of Amherst. Perhaps his biggest win last season was the defeat of St. Lawrence's Norm Bell, which ended Bell's four year unbeaten streak, of 45 wins. Against King's Point in one of the most exciting come from behind team victories, Howie climaxed a courageous show by the heavyweight trio, Howie, Pat Wardell and Gary Morris, who brought the team back from a 17- 8 deficit, to take a 21-17 Victory. Howie recorded a quick pin in Murray O'Neil stop waving those three fingers behind your back, it's time to slap your hand on the mat. Tedisco added four more points, dropping home twin one- and-one's to close out the scoring. Coach Walters, the players, and the fans breathed a sigh of relief as they headed back to Schenectady, with the team's 12-2 record, eight game winning streak, and second ranking in the college division of N.Y.S. still Jaszczak Off And Running - Last weekend, a small delegation of Union College Indoor track men represented the shcool at the Millrose Games at Madison Square Garden in New York. Heading the contingent was fleet co- captain Rick Jaszczak, who qualified for the 500 yard run, as well as anchoring the Garnet Mile relay. He was joined on the relay by Dave White, who has looked very impressive in recent meets, Steve Wood, and freshman Freddie Pressley. The four finished the mile in sixth position, with a time of 3:28.0, their best time so far this year. Half art hour later, Jaszczak returned to take sixth place in the 500; recording a very\'fast tirne of 58 seconds flat. Coach Michelsen seemed very pleased with the night's performances.: He is working the team now in preparation for the Union,.Lehigh-RPI, triple meet on next Friday evening; at the field house. . · • Bantom-captain Dave Brown, who was expected to be a threat, Was held to only one win, in the 200-yard butterfly (2:33.2). Dutchmen Bruce Goldberg and Mark Shulman foll4lwed for second and third. Goldberg showed a 2:43.8 for the event, a full two seconds faster than a previous time. Bteaststroker Alex Bodenstab placed first in the 200- breast to capture five points. Bodenstab won with a time of 2:35.8, some seven seconds faster than his Kings Point showing. Sophomore Bill Frazer took third with a 3:01.2. · The required and optional diving saw some excellent performances by Union's Bob Field, who captured firsts in both events with scores of 98.00 and 128.35 (based on 2 officials). Dutchman Mark Foster followed to take seconds with figures of 78.75 and 101.55. Trinity's Steve Wilcox and Jerry Ferrari were Still smarting from their mistreatment by · undefeated Williams, the Garnet yearlings et:lged a competent Trinity club, 63-61. As in many games this season the Freshmen found starting players fouling early, with guard Kevin Crawford and Charlie Gugliotta taking precautienary breathers in the first half. Union held a frail lead throughout the half with Jack Comerfqrd finding 12 points. ,. The second half saw a charitable Trinity press concede important lay-ups to Bob Pfifferling and numerous free throw opportunities. Making key steals and finding the outlet pass, guards Greg Luntz and Bill Underhill combined for IS as Charlie Gugliotta, the area's leading Fre~hmen scorer for five consecutive weeks, had 16. Jack Comerford led the 4-4 Dutchmen with 18 . tJ ·:: 1 I I c ( l

l rh ... l:. fl If Vol. lOt, No.l8 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. FEBRUARY8, 1972 Price Twenty Cents The Same Old .Ballgame by AL REISCH would register as Democrats, The Federal Aviation Independents, or as Liberals. Administration has issuc;;d an Now the question being asked order reCiuiring all scheduled more than any other is whether United States airlines to screen or not these people will register airline passengers before they at all. If you've read this column board ptanes as potential before you know by now that hijackers. No one is supposedly one of my pet peeves (but that's excluded from these screenings. really not the right term) is Could you pass? apathy. It is the one force that Strike One: can really defeat anything, and it 1 suppose that I'm guilty of is inexcusable. Why do people not register? Do they disapprove being an ir-repressible optimist, of the system? Fine, but what are but l really thought that in the they doing about it? There has upcoming election year there would be a real discussion of at been so little action lately that it least some of the issues that will is no longer an issue discussed at The War Continues Peace Is Abducted college board meetings - Nixon confront the next president. 1 is claiming approval on the ·part was wrong. AU that it took was of college students to his one statement by one candidate programs. Yet anyone who is a to send the Nixon forces scampenng for their typewriters member of any college community knows that fhis is not to say that any negative the case. But who is going to tell statements regarding th~e the rest of the world? You can Pres·ident's foreign policy rest assured that your President proposals' are counterproductive will sit back until the issue to the bargaining power at the becomes live again .... if it ever Paris peace talks and will does. I don't think that it ever undermine United States' will. Strike Two. versed in .draft law. There are, however, a goodly number of people walking around with long faces muttering about the damned Army and how they feel sick about the possibility of being drafted, and that's all. They haven't seen a draft counselor, many of them haven't even thought about seeing a draft counselor. They give reasons like, \Well l was going to go up to see you but draft counseling is illegal, isn't it?\ NO. Draft counseling is a perfectly legal service provided for the most part free of charge by laymen and lawyers who are dedicated to helping people understand the draft laws. If you are in the position of being drafted, and find this acceptable, fine. If, however, you can't accept serving in the armed forces for whatever your reason may be, see a draft counselor. It's your life, but I really don't expect that too many people will do anything at aU about it. What can one say when people care so little that even their own life is worth so little to them that a walk to the peace center is too much effert except ... , strike three. Saturday's battle between Athens and Sparta was marked by a single mysterious event which suggested ominous foreshadowings of even greater and bloodier conflicts in the near future. . According to reliable sources present in the blustery field of combat, the' apparition of Peace, clad only in a powder-blue toga in the -30 degree weather, appeared . at the height. of the battle, caus~ng both sides to cease fighting. According to WRUC Newsman Peter Pach; who witnessed the entire confrontation, .. It was the most incredible sight I've seen in thirty years of broadcasting live battles. People who had 'been lockl';d in vicious mortal combat one moment were embracing each other and laughing the next.\ The strange being seemed to appear frof:D out of nowhere, walked slowly but purposefully into the thick of the fighting, and suddenly all who looked upon her dropped their arms, and, in some cases, began kneeling before her. However, the mood was not to last. Several minutes after Peace had made her dramatic entrance onto the field, two figures came running at breakneck speed toward her from the direction of Nott Memorial. When Peace saw the two, her expression, which until this time had been one of beatific tranquility, changed to a mask of holy terror. As the two figures came within sight, tim Cain, the other half of the WRUC news team, was heard to shout out an identification. The monitors in the main WRUC complex recorded the names of the infameus god, War, and his cohort, General Disorder. The former grabbed Peace, and, hauling her over his armored shoulder; screamed \War! War! War!'' through ·a bull horn provided by General Disorder, who is notorious for his appetite for carnal torments. The two villains then rushed through the dazed throngs of soldiers toward Notf Memorial. At last report, Peace is said to be confined somewhere in the dank spleen of this monstrous dungeon. In response to the emergency, the Mountebanks have deemed it necessary to rescue the beleaguered Peace. The battle, which had been spectacular up until the entrance of Peace, continued a-fter War and · General Disorder had left the field. Again, the deadly hail of marshmallows and color bombs began staining the Library Plaza purple and green. However, the troops seemed fatigued after a short exchange of volleys, and both sides soon returned to their camps, shouting patriotic slogans and waving flags. Later, Ei~d ,Marshall Light- Horse Harry of the Spartan forces was asked about the effect of the strange entities on the battlefield. He replied, \Interruptions! Always interruptions! Last week it was a blizzard, the week before it was a legal holiday - and now this. It's getting more and· more difficult to keep the troops interested in blood and gore. I tell you, this might very well be the last straw.\ And the Athenian General, Richard the Rogue, agreed. \This Peace thing could be really dangerous,\ he said, but added, \We don't think it's necessary to put too much emphasis on it, though. It's probably just ~mother of these cracy fads .. It'll blow over ... strength abroad. . Now, it'~ too early to be sure Strike Three: what the response of the several It is one thing to be apathetic Democratic and Republican about national issues, not really candidates. will be, but it is safe understandable, but compre- to say that if any statement can hens i b 1 e. It is quite be construed by members of the another to be apathetic about admlnistration as being one's own life. Last Wednesday· counterproductive to the well was the lottery day for people being of the United States, !tnd (males) born . in calendar year publiciz.ed by said administration 1953. A lot of us were hit nard, as such, this statement will never some more than others. It's a he made. In the end the people rotten feeling, I was number 27 are the ones hurt by these tactics. and therefore I speak from We're All Out: Strike one. personal experience. I know what Strike Two: to do, however; I'm pretty well- In baseball when a batter strikes uut he is alone the one who suffers. In the context of the strikes above, we all lose. We're all out. Perhaps Mark, our Resident Oracle, summed it all up best when he said, \Apocalypse will be here in ten years.\ He wasn't really serious, I don't think. It has been said that no one can hurt a person nearly as much as a person can hurt himself. Believe it. The twenty sixth amendment to the constitution of the United States gave eighteen to twenty-one-year-olds the right to vote in National elections. For about a month there was a huge debate between the people who debate such things as to whether these newly enfranchised voters Area Testing Center Is Potter Laboratory How strong are the support beams in a five-story building? The answer can be found in the Stephen J. Potter Memorial Laboratory at the college which is the only facility for full scale testing of structural elements in this region. The universal testing lab, completed in 1968, was built here under a grant from the Stephen J. Potter Memorial Foundation, .. established by and named for the late president of the Defiance ; Corp. of Fort Edward, N.Y., a producer of asphalt and bituminous paving products. Located adjacent to the college physical plant, the facility consists principally of a large testing chamber, 18 feet high by 18 feet wide by 36 feet long. The walls, ceiling and floors of the structure are ·of heavily reinforced concrete, two feet thick. \Anything we can get in the front door we can test,\ says. Richard R. Pikul, a civil engineering instructor. \And since that door is almost ten feet square, that means we can test some pretty large beams.\. Pikul, a 1966 graduate of Union, is completing his doctorate and the research for his dissertation includes structural modeling which requires he use the lab regularly. \This is the only facility within 200 miles adequate for me to conduct such research,\ the 27-year-old engineer says. In the test chamber, anchorages are located on all surfaces, including the ceiling. Each by design is capable of resisting a load up to 50,000 pounds in any direction which allows for the testing of full scale structural elements. Since the anchorages are spaced closely throughout the test chamber, specimens, or models reduced to scale, can easily be supported and tested, eliminating the need to fabricate special or unusual loading frames and clamps. Cables and two-ton hydraulic rams, ten in number, are used to ~xert a variety of distributed or concentrated loads on the structural elements. ' Beams as large as 22 feet long and weighing as much as 6,000 pounds have been tested in the college lab. The principal use of the facility is by students who do testing as part of engineering courses here. However, some additional work has also been done including a series of tests on beams used in c!onstruction at the Wilton School in Saratoga County. Carly Simon singing in concert here last Friday. ·See review on page 3. T~us in addition to adding a new dimension to the engineering program at Union, the four~year•old lab provides the region with its own sound, multi-purpose, full scale struct1,1ral testing facility.

I I· Page 2 CONCORDIENS/S, Feb. 8, l972 Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff \370-4956 Managlng Editor Doug Wong 346-9735 l<eatures Editor . MaHhe\\: Swart7 News Editor Howard Stone Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photojlraphy Editor Dave Conre~ As.~t. Photo Editor Scott (iord on AS$t. Managing Editor Asst. Business Manager Gail W. Goodman Michael Hurley Jeff Wei Iburg . Contributing Editors WiUiam Holleran Mike Meserole Peter Bickerman Subscription Manager Thomas J. Conley National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman STAFF: Bob Johnson, Larry Wharton, Jon Philipson, Bill Westheimer, Steve Ente, Richard Kern, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. Bain, Jody Saslow, Charles Long, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald, Reid Russell, Paul Connors, Phyllis Edelman, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, Frank l)eLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemar~ Rice, Don Kaplam, Rita MQrandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe. Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the school year by the student ·body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National· Advertising. Rep~esentative, Nation~! Educational Advertising Service, Inc., CoUege · Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial offiCe Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office,. •The World Publications: 771 State Street, ~chenectady, N.Y. . 12307. 346-2356. Entered in the '\\'\'\\\\\'- off\' \ S..On<J,a.,. Mail Matt..-. Su,.,riptNin 20 . 1 . ·-cents a copy.$8 a year delivered art}'where in the United_St~tes. · . ~ From Nobody My thanks to Mr. Allan Windt for bringing to my attention the fact that I'm a non-membe.r of this vast Union College Community. Since there are only \two groups of people\ on this campus, I guess I better consider myself a non-person since I'm neither Black nor White. To the Editor: l.ast year I prorrrised myself to never write another letter to the editor as my last one concerning the \midnight screamers of Davidson resulted in daily curses and threats from them for not only me but also for my fiancee. Yet this is supposed to be an intellectual climate, so upon reading Gerry Kendrick's letter in the last Concordy I felt, having something to say, that J'd say it. My only claim to minority group status is being a Jew so I • make no pretense of knowing what it's like to be a black man in this society, this state, or on· this campus. I do know what it is to be a \whitey.. however. It means to he made aware that there is a black alliance on this campus. That there is little social intermingling between the races. That there is ... I originally planned to make a long list of items but I reafly d-on't think it is necessary. The point is that there are (at least) two communities on this campus (and· perhaps in this nation) - one black and one white. A fact which I frankly feel to be a necessary step before any true integration can ever occur. Men of different races can embrace each other as brothers only when there is a feeling of mutual respect and equality, and an era of segregation between the periods of \lack of respect and equality\ integration and \respect and equality\ integration can foster the eventual evolution of the latter. I find myself wandering from the basic point of this latter. Mr. -D.W. Kendrick, on this campus there are two communities - two -groups of people. You are as much responsible for it as I am. When t·he Dean's wife politely thanked you as an R. A.· for bringing ''your people\ to her coffee hour (a phrase l .have heard from numerous sources that she often uses) the only appropriate responst;: J could see you as having made. would have been a polite and sincere \You're· welcome.\ Trust- Allan Windt, '73 To the Editor: J am writing this letter for one reason: to express my joy, happiness, excitement, exuberance about what has been going on of late at the Nott Memorial Theatl'e (yes, theatre). Everyone over there is preparing for Peace with such an amazing outpouring of energy, creativity, and Wholeheartedness (I could go oil and on). You may recall the . great production of ·om;tine last term. Well, that experience coupled with the promise of Peace makes one's heart ready to sing. Great theatre is a lift to the spirit. and the Mountebanks, I guess, are soaring, too. Today, I happened into Nott Memorial to get a look at what was going on (and a ticket). Wow!! They've done it again, I can tell you that. The set · is magnificent. Within fifteen seconds I lost all sense of where l was. The set is total, so that the audience will be able to immerse themselves entirely in the goings-on. Environmental ~------------~-----------------~----- Nusbaum's rroutfi,tters to Men and Young Men\ 441-451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY That's The Wa~i ·It Is by MATTHEW SWARTZ \Hey Sheila, is' that popcorn I sme:U?\ · · \No the radiator in mY room leaked last night, the water· shorted my triple durable extension cord and charred some . of the penitentiary grey wash on the wall.'' \Gee it really smells like · popcorn, don't you think?\ \Yeah Lizzy, yeah. Are you going down to breakfast?\ . \No. My roommate got some of that new Quaker Q~ts ·instant Expresso and Cream Oatmeal. Want to try the eiid ·in breakfast?\ \I'd prefer eggs for my lltst meal, warden.\ ·Sheila turned down the hall, headed for the mountain of steaming, hot, scrambled eggs, only to run into her RA. \Morning Sheila.\ \Hiya Electra. Hey,' are you going to submit the usual list of complaints today?\ \You betcha. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.\ \Tell them that my radiator fell apart last night. Christ, I was beginning to lose touch wit4 my toes.\ \No blankets?\ \Sure. I'm even using my sleeping bag. Hell, with that pair of broken windows, they're not much good.\ ··- \I suppose no~. Okey-dokey. the shop was by. descending the I'll tell them.~· spiraling l!tdder downward. With \Thanks sport.'' the other.s already at work when On down the stairs strewn with Sheila touched bottom, sbe this and last month's garbag¢, headed c;iirectly for her Qei1ch. Sheila felt her appetite begin to . Today Mr. Karroll was going to wane. But when she caught scent help her with the set-up of the of those .sausa,ge patties popping muJtidirectional time.problem. on the grill, the meat lust ·won · NEXT: Mr. KarroU: · an otitr ''What'U you have this. i!1}pre_s$iVe chap. · morning, Sheila?'' · ... , . .. , . ''SQme eggs. ~~qsage, • and: ... J:. R·~,-Ttle. ·stude.nt,'Sqclat Action wheat ~oast, no butter , please. ' Committee presents Robert B. Say, I hke your 11:e~. rouge color. Salt~man,. ..-ember of _the W~at do yoq call tt. . . National- · Conuuittee • to Order of !>uttered wheat Investigafe Assa:s~ination.s, toast, . bold the. but~er.. ~reen . Who Will · speal{. , OD· the tangenne tart. I JUst pl~ked_;t. up assassbtation of J 0 f$n F. on sale at the five and dtme. Kennedy~ Saltzman's talk wiD .\Makes ai1 i~teresting ;ont~st be tomorrow, at 7:30 p.m. in With your hot pmk apron. SS 016. \It's what they're showing this A slide presentation ·will .month ~ Cosmo~olitan ~hart· , accompany his talk, which Order Cook. Anythmg else? . will explore the ideas .of :same coffee, black.\ . . . ·conspiracy as associated witb Regular. coffee, hold th~ the death . of Ken\edy. Tbe cre~m. Have a good .day, honey. . Warren Commission· report ,,. Sheila saw the ommous yellow I' and the performance of the grin oil the chartruese kitchen Dallas Police Force wiU also shirt and cringed. be discussed. I An uneventful breakfast and a · .. ·, I new winter low of one slippage on the way to class ·and · our ··;·....., _______ .,. ............ ____ ;,.._ friend found herself in the campus hot-'house under two sweaters, a flannel shirt and long underwear; the Introduction to Time workshop. Describing the room in which the shop was locaied woufd be flattery. To punish the dying mechanics department for not drawing an enrollment worthy of the money they spend, the administration moved them into the basement of the old gym and, TWNGS FOR THE MIND. &·BODY TQE OTHER SIDE OF TODAY UBiaySt. ·'to add insult to purgatory, into Theatre? I don't know what you call it. Anyway, go see Peace. the recently abandoned pool. By sealing off the top with grey t~nted glass, the only way to enter Oh, I'm not a member of the Mountebanks. And Mounte- banks, please don't stamp any more of those \Suppose they gave a peace and nobody came!\ things on my door. See you·on the 14th, Tom Parisi ·_=:::t!Sav~ -The· C:hildr~n·''; AsSistance Is ·Needed To the Editor: The Student Senate Committee to Poll the Student Body on the Proposed Calendar Change last week distributed to the student body a fact sheet and guestionnaire. To quote the front page of the fact sheet: ••y our vote on this. matter is extremely important - it will be the major factor in deciding whether Union College will change to a split-3 calendar next year.\ Considering . the 'extreme importance' of our vote, it strikes me as rather odd · that most of the students I've spoken to never even received the questionnaire, and many of those who did were unaware that the deadline for handing them in to the SAO wa& noon on Friday. Perhaps another poll would be in order. · Much has .bee~ said about student ~pathy here, but at least we should have all been given the chance to be apathetic (or, hopefully, to express an opinion).' When it's announced that there Was only some 30% response to this questionnaire. won't there be remarks from all sides about · \student apathy at Union College\? How about laying some of the blame. this time on those members of the Student Senate who were negligent in their duty -a duty, I might add, t-hat they asked for. Sincerely, Howard Eisenson '75 by WOODY GHTH~RZ As a student at Union' College, and a well-taken-'care-of adolescent, I have always been' interested in the Save the Children Federation. I hav¢ been Writing to the program in Norwalk, Conll., and they have just written back to me. They sent me some background information, and I would like to relate it to aU Union Students. The federation was founded in 1932 to help the children of Appalachia. The program was so successful that it was extended to Europe, the Far East, Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East. It helps all children, regardless of background, color, ra!,!e, or creed. It is also' a non- profit o'rgi:mization. All; money given to the program is fed·eral income tax deductible. · As a ·sponsor for the program, one would give $1'5 a month, $180 a year, toward assisting a child and · his family, if' ,he has · one. In the first correspondence orte receives the history of the child, and a picture of him or her. As· one writes more and more, he learns how his money is going to work. Ma:ny · people have visited their children in their home lands, and have planned it through the federation programing. The purpose of the program is to help the family survive by teaching the adult how to plant so he can sell his products ·for FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JA·KE tiPSTEI'N'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 0 \M 0 • -- 0 • , .... oth~r food and for clothing. I have all the information for be~.oming ll sponsor for a child. If anyone is interested, and I hope that all the people here at Union have· some kindness in their hearts for children wh6 are ·. dying'eve~ day. ·Piea~e come and talk to me about the program. I live in 305 West.. We can sponsor a ff;w children as a group instead ofas individuals. TUTORING AND GUIDANCEltfS: . SINCE 1938 • MCAT -OAT .·LSAT-ATGSB ·G·RE *.Preparation for tests required for . admission to graduate and profes- sional schools \Six and twelve session courses * Small groups *Voluminous material for home study pr;epared by exper~s in ,each field *Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet jndi.vidual neeqs. lessQns can be spread over a period of several months to a year, or for out of town students, a period of one week •Opportunity for review of past lessons ilia tape at the center Special Compact Courses during Weekends - l.ntersessions Su!1lmer Sessions StANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER lTD. - . ,.,. ... ,. •• _ -~O.Y iJi (212) 336-5300 ~\\' (516) 538-4555 •• DAYS, EVEN.INGS, WEEKENDS Branches in principal cities in U.S. Tht TulvrinsSchooi with the Nationwide ~epult2riolt

the en to the an ., ' for ild. I at in are I B s. library Plaza was. engulfed in battle at noon last Saturday as· the conflict between the city -states of Sparta and Athens exploded into open conflict. Need a ride or riders? Then bring-this Information to WRUC before 10 P.M. on Wednesday. We will take 'all ride il1formation · W«;: receive and air it Thursday ~()rnin,g at 8:15 and again at 9:1'5. Be sure to . include your ' ' -. ' J ! ' ' • I - ' ~ 1 \: ' name, hoW you. can be reached, Where. you· are going, and when you wish to leave. * * * • Union College Coffee House pre$ents Hal Paris and the Ryans this Friday, February ll, at 8:30 p.m. it1 Old Chapel. Admission is free and so are the coffee and donuts~ The Schenectady·P.Y.E. Club will ·meet· on Thursday night, February 10, at 7:30 p.m., in the P.Y.E. Office,. :located in the basement of . Silliman Han. All members and any other interested people are urged to attend. If we're lucky, maybe the phone will ring again. * * * * On Febtuaty 9~ at 7:00 ·p.m. in Carnegie 1 07 there . will be a me~ting of 'the ASCE. The meeting will feature quest speaker Dennis Fitzgerald who will speak on public transportation, especially bus transportation. Mr. • Fitzgerald work!! for the Capital District Transportation Authority. Preceeding the talk~ elections for next. years officers will be held. If you. are at all interc;:sted in the ASCE , please come. Following the presentatiQn w~ will have the usual refreshments. * * • * There will be a. coffeehouse at Phi Sigma Kappa .this Saturday night, 12 February, beginning at 9:00 p.m. Featured will be Jim Kaye and Mark Foster. There will be no admission charge; coffee is free, Irish coffee is 50q:. * * * * The Union College Glee Club and the \\{ellesley College Choir present a concert . in Memorial Chapel, Sunday Feb. 13 at 4 p.m. The , program will consist of .l3a~;:h's Magnificat; Handel's \Zadok the Priest\; and Brahms \Maiienlieder\. Admission is free and the public is invited. Come and bring your date for a great afternoon of music. * * * * There will be Fl:ench club meeting on Wednesday 7:30 in the Library music room. Any French-speaking students· are invited. CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 8, 1972 Page 3 ~Car-ly Simon - Less Than Spectacular by BOB. ~· RIVERS Carly Simon was here last Friday. If you missed her, well, you didn't miss anything spectacular, and if you were at the Chapel, you were probably pleasantly entertained but not overwhehned. ln fact one of the highlights of the evening may have beet:t listening to the new Traffic . album over the p.a. before. the concert. First on the bill was Mickey N.~wbury - who was given a typic&,\ big type of an introductiop as a writer of songs . for · Baez, Bwfy St. Marie, and Tom Jones. Micky tt~rned out to be none so spe·ctacular appearing, almost ~eming right out of the Marines with short hair and tatooed arm. He told stories about his life in the South, sang folky songs to his own guitar accompaniment, and had a catchy way of stopping suddenly and looking around the stage .to end his songs. In short, a typical_ warm-up performer - interesting, but designed. not to overshadow the star. The song would end on the downswing in a hurt quiet voice about the love not found or the love l..>st, as the spotlight on Carly would fade out (good work on the lights, Social Committee). Her sidemen Were adequate, particularly James Ryan who did the better share of the guitar work. The real star was early's voice and the simple, sentimental lyrics. It was aU very sweet. So sweet in fact it was a very commercial, AM radioish show. But that was all the more. to the delight of the numerous townies who piled in and helped sell out the Chapel. · Carly sang het last song, her current Top 40 hit \Anticipation\ and then she left, only to be coaxed back for two encores. It didn't take much coaxing. After her first encore I saw Bob Ditter walking across the back of the stage apparently going to ask her if he should turn on the house lights to end the show. She was already coming back out before he got to her. Anyway, it shouldn't ·have taken much applause to get her back out since she couldn't have been very tired. Her original set lasted only 40 minutes and with the encores she played but one hour. I ·'So. )ctaT~co~mmiitei!Oncer. t schedule . . WINTER TERM (as of 1/17) · Feb. 18 - Dance after basketball game - Gym - ; ., FREE .. . . · . . . Feb. 25 Roberta Flack - Proctors Theatre -. Next was the star, Cady. Tall, statuesque, with long dark hair and a huge mouth and smile, she was certainly a commanding figure onstage. She sang melodic, romantic songs while backing . herself on acoustic guita-r. included in her repertoire were \One More Time,\ \Dan My Fling,\ and \That's The Way I Always Heard It Should Be,\ all songs from; her first album. 53.00, tickets go on sa:le in SAO approx. Feb. 14 ··. '' /j IJflll llltlk all the elements in the universe 1111d traced them baellto their ultimate beqinninq • • • thllt's whllt Cod is.~~ If yl)u've got something to say about God, we'll give you Most of the songs followed the same pattern. Carly began alone in a quiet sensitive voice. After a verse, her backup men, who she explained she'd been playing ;'!round with on stage and off for a year and a half, would come in and the tempo would increase. a lif~time to say it ... as a Priest in the Albany Diocese •.. We're looking for hard-core human beings. Contact: Fr. Bill Ryan 40 No. Main A venue Albany, N.Y. 12203 482-5562 THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION $6value $1.50 value $ 5value all for a specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to neace and THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY a non-profit non-political organization dedicated to helping students to help themselves offer STUDY ABROAD • New 19th Edition • Paris, France, 1972 • Each copy is trilingual • 644 Pages in English, French and Spanish The most 'complete scholarship directory in the world lists more , than 234 1 000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more than 129 countries or ter{itories! Tells who is eligible, fields of study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO APPI,. V! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by financial need! VACATION SfUDY ABROAD • Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified· people will go free! Provides information on short courses, seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults planning to undertake study or training abr9ad during their vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries! STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered: • Scholarship information service. Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! • Travel service. Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! • Reference Service. only .$ 6 =' ~ Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc. frequently using primary sources available only in the Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable t;lducational experience and defeat the very purpose for writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide \Your reference service background information and bibliographies which rank saved me much valuable with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclo- time which I put in on paedia reference services available only with expensive sets. other subjects. Result: 5 Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester As and 1 B.\ per student in good standing. We cannot answer any CN, Ann Arbor, Mich question which we feel requires the advice of a doctbr, 'i ,,.... ,.. \' . , . lawyer, architect, engineer, or other I icensed practitioner, r ---. ----------------. ,,e vantageromt Jsa · f FERRo . bQok put together by 5 nor can we advise concermng. your inancial investments. t ghost writers and edited Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or f by LBJ. Your reference provide home study courses. f f S:::/,C:e~!~':Jo;~::rew\:ker.\ ~--~~----------------------- 1 ' Ph rm acy . LC, Gainesville, Fla. I Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 I ' . . a . · . ' ''Th 3 '{j b k : Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 200161 i · . · . · · . f of V:hic~ 8 e!~e;c:tu;:nt .I Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, : ' FQUNIAIN iiiYICE needs personal copies 1 1 Vacation Study Abroad and annual dues. 1 A f are Study Abroad, a '' ·oae bloci: ftOM . ...._II 11 7 .,o 510 good dictionary and 1 Name : i Gate . . f thesaurus. I got a $10,000 ·•· 1 1 Address 1 ' 575 u.:......;. e.~ 4·year scholarship from 1 L . .,....... iN~ . .. f Study Abroad.\ I City, State • .· Zip 1 ._.._.......,..._._..._..._...._.,~.~-•.., • .- .. ·~-• ... ~ti',!IP.,.;~, .... ,. .... ~ .... v ~ ..... ~IJ~.II.•tlt.eltW .. Pfl[f! .. ~ .. _ ...... 41 1.---:---·-------~-~------··-------- __ ...,_,_ --~ ,~ ....... ~ ... ....,._. --- -·- -·· ••• w .. ._ -'

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 8, 1972 Concordy Sports Flu-Ridden Cagers Sink tarries, 70-5.7 by BILL HOLLERAN Shaking off a sluggish performance in the first 23 minutes of the game, the Garnet hoopsters put together a blistering second half effort against St. Lawrence to upend the persistent tarries on Saturday night, 70-57. The victory was the ninth in a row for the streaking 13-2 Dutchmen, and 12th straight on the Memorial Fieldhouse court. The Dutcllmen were hampered by illness in the contest, with both Jim Tedisco and Mike Doyle suffering from .the flu. Although both players were forced to take periodic breathers, the pair put together a fine performance. Tedisco hit for 18 points, while Doyle was tough inside as usua'l with ei,ght tallies and 12 rebounds. Both teams played poorly in the first half, but Union emerged on top at the buzzer by a 28-26 count. The Garnet, held in check by the Larrie zone defense, connected on only I I of 32 shots from the floor in the half, while the Larries had no reason to be proud of their 37% performance. The Garnet's superi0r defense and ballhandling were decisive in keeping Union in the ·lead during the stanza, as St. Lawrence committed 16 turnovers. The Larries got a big lift from guard John Francis' long jumper at the buzzer, which cut the Union halftime edge to two points. St. Lawrence came out momentum-laden at the start of the second half, .and promptly wiped out the Garnet lead. The Frosh Gain Twin Victories by FRANK ~eLUCIA: Winning a game with 91 points. is not very unusual, but winning two games by a combined total of 91 is rare indeed. That rarity was accomplished this weekend as Union's frosh hoopers proved themselves double winners. At ·Ail>any State Friday the Dutchmen showed a poised disciplined offense and a stinging defense to match. Little-used Barry Roff led the charge with nine big boards. State never got the · percentage shot, while Dutchmen guards Crawford, Underhill and · Zee repeatedly found the big men Gugliotta, Kenny and Comerford undern~ath. The following night against an uncoordinated· Utica College squad Roff again was effective along with Joe Kenny, as each tallied eight points. Muscling inside, center Charlie Gugliotta was overpowering, hitting for 23 points while hauling down an amazing 22 rebounds. Coach Bill Scanlon credits his guards, feeding the ball into the big men, and his forwards, working without the ball, for his team's three game win streak. All of which m0:1kes basketball a team sport. The 6-4 Yearlings will entertain a tol!gh Hartwicl< five at home on Thursday. Larries pulled into a 31-30 margin at the 18:07 mark, and after Union had battled back into a 32-31 advantage, Jim Jenkins hit a bucket to put SLU on top once again, 33-32. With just over 17 minutes remaining in the contest at this point, both the crowd and Coach Gary Walters were growing restless. The lead see-sawed back and forth until the the count was. knotted at 36 apiece, and suddenly the Garnet took complete control of the contest. Union reeled off eight points in a row, and outscored the Larries by 16-1 and 28-8 counts over the next ten minutes. The outburst sent SLU back to the North Country laded witlf a disappointing 6-8 record. The tarries came into the contest with last winter's 16-7 quintet virtually intact but you'd never know it. Something . is dreadfully wrong in Canton this season, as the Larries, in a .below- par season, were shooting only 30% entering the game. Union's biggest lead in the contest came at the 7:04 mark, when Tom Bacher connected to put the Garnet up 60-41. At that point SLU went into a full court press, and managed to cut the Dutchmen lead to 60-47 before'. the Garnet again regained. cominand in the wailing moments. Bacher and another one of his hotshooting nights hitting nine of 16· field goals ·to share Garnet scoring honors with Tedisco. Bill Carmody also had a fine night with 12 points,. and his game- high five assists were a cre<lH to Tom Bacher finding the range on one of his nine .field goals against .the LLlrries. Leading all scorers, Tom banged home nine of 16 attempts for 18 points. Bill Carmody looks on. his topnotch ballhandling and court generalship. Defense-min<led Geoff Walker chipped in with- seven tallies, whfle Chuck Abba added five in his typically strong reserve role. Francis was the only SLU player to shoot .consistently, as he led the Larries .with 17 points. Chris Cleveland, who helped engineer the late Larrie rally with s.ome hot shooting, finished with 11 tallies. Union's overall winning streak, their home victory skein, and their ever-brightening playoff hopes are on the line Thursday night in a key contest against Hartwick. Hartwick, last se~J,son's NCAA small college Eastern Regional champs, are rated as strong as ever this season in spite of a deceivingly poor record. Both Mike Doyle and Jim Tedisco will not be practicing until Wednesday in order to recover from the flu. · Jim Boltz will also be sidelined. Unsung Bench Key To Hoop Renaissance by .Ml.KE MESEROLE The Social Science Building's mysterious Presidential Portrait Snatcher has a partner in crime. He is none other than the merciless Magazine Ravisher of Schaffer Library, who dwells deep in the depository dungeon thumbing through back issues of national periodicals and tearing out anything that tickles his fancy. As a result, there isn't a remotely sexy magazine picture to be seen the whole basement. Everything from Ursula Andress to Annette Fu.nichello has disappered, including (and this is pretty sick even for the Ravisher) the cover of the February 27, 1967, Sports Illustrated. Two college guys decked out in their underwear are on that cover. One of them, Chris Thomforde, is now a Lutheran minister. while the other, Gary Walters, coaches the highly successful Union College basketball team. Both Thomforde and Walters played basketball at Princeton in 1967, and made the cover of S.I. because the \Tigers were courting national attention in the peach basket sport due largely to Chris' height and Gary's speed. Since those ivy-covered days of yore, Thomforde's proximity to the heavens has led him to take up the cloth, while Walters has entered the coach-hood where his emphasis on fleetness afoot has led Union to an astonishing two year record of 33-5, and a current ranking of number two in New York State. in the meantime, their friendship has continued to the point where Thomforde, a resident of Connecticut, agreed to scout the Wesleyan U. ballclub as a personal favor to Gary, two weeks ago and Walters has apparently consented to coach every game on his knees. An interesting note a~out Thomforde's scouting report; Union freshman coach- - Bill Scanlon also reviewed the Wesleyan squad for Coach Walters, and while the two reports were practically identical, the speCific language employed gave the author away. Noting one Cardinal player who liked to shoot the ball, Scanlon listed him as \a gunner.\ Rev. Thomforde politely remarked that the gentleman in question .. :was conscious of the open shot.\ Disarmed and unconscious, Wesleyan fell by 72-58. Showtime at the Fieldhouse There can be no doubt that basketball is Union's big sport now. Four years ago, going up to The Memorial Fieldhouse for a varsity basketball game was something that you did to shake insomnia. Today, finding a decent place to sit the night of a game is like trying to hail an empty shopping cart at the A&P on a Saturday morning. Four years ago, if you went to a game it w.as usually to see the amazing Jim Tedisco and Coach Gary Brown's fabulous frosh five, and when the game ended; half the crowd evacuated before the varsity even showed up. Today, the freshmen are· the appetizer instead of the main course. In all fai·rness· to former varsity coach Chris Schmidt, the turn- about hasn't been all Gary Walters' doing. Indeed, the cage resurgence commenced in Schmidt's final year at the helm. However, since Walters' arrival last season and the advent of sophomores Tom Bacher and Mike Doyle, a new spirit has pervaded the fieldhouse and basketball has become an at.traction rather than simply an activity. Ten days ago, 3,500 people shoehorned their way into Union's vast athletic airplane hanger for the Williams' game and the priviledge of jockeying shoulder to shoulder for good sight lines. Thirty-five hundred • pairs of eyes.! Hell, AI Gyurko in his heyday never drew half that. like their favorite team, the Union crowd has come of age. \Ba-ba Bob\ Rydings still wears his Dutchman togs and carries his eversized balloonball to all the games, and the crack college cheerleading corps still throws out those catchy rah-rah numbers, but the crowd itself has changed. There is less blind yelling and screaming than last year, when a prolonged Union winning streak was a novelty. This season there is a hint of sophistication in the musty fieldhouse air and a sense of confidence that among other things, has spawned the unique hand-clapping \Cowbell Rag\ and allowed the crowd to applaud a good opposition play as well as a fine Union move. Down oq the court, the object of the hometown adoration continues to knock off everybody in sight. The reason why is no accident. Drilled orl the rudiments of the running and passing game, the team· is often dazzled in practice with a glimpse of the ghost of charisma past when Coach Walters jumps into the workout to emphasize an important point. As a result, Union, whose tallest man is only 6'4\ has been able to offset any height disadvantage by utilizing speed and team play. With cornermen Geoff Walker and Tom Combs joining Bache~ and Doyle up front, and the Fabulous Jimmy T. in the backcourt with sophomores Bill Carmody and Chuck Abba, the Garnet have attained a balanced attack that is a pleasure to behold. \Walters' Wonders\ When all is said and done, however, it is Union's Beautiful Bench (all rights reserved) that holds the squad together. Led by Bob Pezzano, who sees less playing time than any other college co-captain in the country, \Walters' Wonders\ are a constant source of enthusiasm and encouragement to their teammates, and an easy-going foil to the tightly wound gyrations of their coach. Grizzled Vietnarp. veteran Rein \the Kraut with Clout\ Eichinger, who along with co- captains Pezzano and Tedisco played autumn ball under Coach Hans \Doc\ Rozendaal in the rough Comp Ed League, is alsu a pine slab mainstay, together with the \Benevolent Giant,\ reserve center Jim ''Tiiunder\ Bolz. Down the bench aways sits senior, \Gentleman Joel\ Roslyn, one of the game's premier dribbling phenomena who is Union's ace-in·the ... hole if and when they meet UCLA in the play-offs. Then there's \Reckless Rich\ Goldberg, another· refugee from the Gary Brown era, who is renowned for his go-for.:.breke style of play and his penchant for the ·Bill Bradley-autographed jumper from the corner. Rounding out the Wonders is sophomore Herb \the Hun\ Reichenbach, who shar~s the sacred, Beautiful Bench Whammy Towel with Eichinger, and who, along with his bench- riding colleagues, specializes in protecting 30-point leads. ·· When Walters clears The Bench for take-off, the hometown fans go crazy. Pezzy, Kraut, Joel, Thunder, Reckless and the Hun swarm over the hardwood floor in a burst of energy that could be termed \desire but more often than not connotes chaos, because there is usually only forty seconds left to play in the game when they finally get in. Anyway, basketball is alive and doing very nicely in the Electric City. After just missing a chance to make a play~off berth last year, the only obstacle that seems to bar Union's attaining a bid this sea~on is a league rule that says such post-campaign activity is naughty. A petition has been sent to the league chieftains, but regardless of the outcome, Union College is being treated to some great small college basketball and a terrific sense of enthusiasm between the team and its fans. Who knows, with any luck at all, Walters' Wonders may follow in the sneaker tracks of their photogenic leader and land a spread in a national magazine, thus earning the ,privilege · of being kidnapped by the Magazine Ravisher in his library lair. I me aftc Un po tou cal1 sch of., Fre qm pm Ev: all< Ho pia me 1 rep rna Co rei pet sea the em J Co dir· Atl off Ob do1 of the SU< me res dis am l of am me COl rei; to me wa rer me to At res sm by fol ex] rna Cc sp pa Cc se~ Ufl im au re< ' Pr op pre we H< .. 4 I.

4 I .. . . . ·Founded at Union College· . 1877 Hoop Debate In All-College Senate by PATTY SIPE this final form by a vote of 12-J with five abstentions. . Four new courses approved in the January 14 meeting of the C1,1rricular Affairs Committee passed unchallenged. They are a :Practicum in Modern Dance, two psychology Seminars in Counseling; a Mechanical Engineering course and a Continued on Page 3 . ' Price Twenty Cents NESCAC Ruling Forbids Basketball Tourney Play byBILL HOLLERAN touched off a wave ot protest in a move to preserve the around the campus. Petitions, amateur., academically oriented calling for Union to drop out of callegiate sports cUlture, the · the conference if necessary in executive committee of the New order to compete in the playoffs, England Small College Athletic were being Circulated at last Conference has unanimously night's Union-Hartwick denied Union College's request basketball game. for permission to consider a bid The NESCAC's ruling was to cempete in the NCAA college announced in a letter to division basketball tournament. President Harold C. Martin The Garnet, owners of an received last Friday. The letter, impressive 14-2 record a.nd . from league executive committee currently riding a I 0-game spokesman Roger Howell Jr., winning streak, were looking for said in part: a bid to the New York~New \It is the feeling of the Jersey regional tournament in committee that this tournament eai'ly ·March. Union made the goes beyond the'. N:ESCAC application to the conference guidelines . and . I must :tell jou nearly two weeks ago, shortly that the ruling· is. t-Iiat a.fter the NCAA made competition in the tournament is preliminary contact with the not appropriate.\ college concerning the team's The executive committee of the .. availability\ in the event the League's President's Council is Garnet were offered a composed of Howell, president tournament bid. of Bowdoin College, John W. The announcement has Chandler, president of Hamilton College, John E. Sawyer, president of Williams College, and Burton Hallowell, president of Tufts University. Official reaction to the announcement was mixed. Gordoh Bingham, assistant to President Martin, stated, \We accept the ruling .. \ It was reported that Martin himself was \upset\ by the decision. Athletic Director R. Bruce Allison also expressed dismay at the league action, while basketball coach Gary Walters was understandably outraged at the· news, expressing \indignation :and rage.'' ·Walters had further comments to il)ake, stating, \We're bending over backwards to prove ourselves amateurs. It's tough. I don't understand.\ In the All-College Senate meeting held yesterday afternoon, decisions concerning Union's possible participation in post-season basketball tournament games, the proposed calendar change, the master schedule system, and the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Freshman Year were made. The question of Student Senate's position on Administrative Evaluation and a proposal to allow one student on each Ad Hoc Tenure Committee are to be placed on the agenda of the next meeting. Did One Man Kill John Kennedy? The conference ruling on post season competition is spelled out in the League's operating policies. agreed upon by the presidents of the 11-member group when the league was formed last year. The post-season play rule reads: ·'Participation in regional tournaments during the academic year is limited to events played on college campuses which do not lead to further competition or conflict with the final examination schedule,· provid'ed they do not extend the season more than seven. calendar days beyond Saturday of the final week of scheduled competition.\ Profess-or Bick, Division three representative, requested that the matter of the New England.Small Saltzman Raises S:erio:us Doubts College Athletic Conference's. . by TIM CAIN · refusal to allow Union Bob Saltzman, of the Citizen's permilision to l?articipate in post~ Committee to Investigate season tournament play (should Assassinations, spoke to an the opportunity arise) be given overflow audience in SS 016 emergency treatment. Wednesday night.' The A motion rejecting the assassination of John F. Conference's decision and Kennedy was the subject of directing Union's Director of Saltzman's presentation, which Athletics to accept a bid, if consisted of slides, a running offered, was then proposed. commentary on the slides, and a Objections arose due to the short film. doubts of some of the members Saltzman's basic contention is of the Senate that the Senate has that the conclusions of the the power to pass legislation on Warren Commission cannot be such a question. The form of the justified ·by the available motion was then changed to a evidence. He said that the .. Lone resolution, and a lengthy Assassin Theory\ of the Warren discussion and series of Commission is .. absurd.\ The amendments followed. Warren Commission, Saltzman Professor Kirschner, a member said, did not consider all the of the Athletic Committee, available evidence. According to answered the questions of some Saltzman, the Warren members of the Senate in Commission ignored evidence connection with this matter. The that conflicted with their relative importance of the conception of the facts. As an tournament and Union's example of negligence on the membership in the conference part of the Warren Commission, was questioned. Although this he pointed out that of the 25,000 remained unresolved, several photographs of the events at members of the Senate objected Dallas, they used only a short to the directive to the Director of film and 26 of these photos to Athletics contained in the support their conclusions. He resolution, in view of possible says that the criteria used by the suspension from the league. Commission in determining After an amendment proposed which witnesses to call .. is the by Dr. Roth, the motion read as most humorous aspect of the follows: whole affair.\ The Union College Senate Saltzman claims that, contrary expresses its dismay at the ruling to the Warren findings, there made by the New England Small were actually four assassins College Athletic Conference involved in the· murder of specifically prohibiting President Kennedy. According to participation 'by the Union his theory, there were six sho1s College basketball team in post- fired, none by Lee Harvey season tournament games, and Oswald.\-\:O~w~ clid not fire a urges the President to consult shot 'that dii~ · m ·:Oalla!l,'; said immediately with appropriate Saltzman. The first shot hit authorities to seek Kennedy (in the back), and the reconsideration. . second shot hit Connally. This Profeno r. . Kirschner and aSflertion is cotltrary to the Professor Btck expressed the-- findings· -of the Warren opinion that on the basis of the Commission, which says that precedent set last year, an appeal Kennedy and Connally were hit would be of little value. by. the same bullet. Salt;zman However,. the motion· carried in poi~ted out, . however. that Connally testified that he ••heard the first shot.\ \Chances are,\ said Saltzman, \you are not going to hear a bullet, travelling at 1900 feet per second, that hits you.\ He also pointed out that the h11llet which the Warren Commission said hit both Kennec.1y and Connally is . \a pristine bullet.\ A bullet that killed one person and wounded another would surely be more ·misshapen than the relatively undamaged bullet that the Commission _says killed Kennedy and wounded Connally. In the course of his presentation, Saltzma.n also implied that the FBI has covered up and destroyed evidence that might lead to conclusion~ other than those of the Warren Commission. He said that the FBI has photographs of the Texas School Book Depository that were taken while the shots that killed Kennedy were being fired. Saltzman asserted that the FBI is withholding these pictures because it is obvious from these photos that there is no one in the 6th fl()or window from which Oswald is supposed to hav~ fired the fatal shot. Saltzman said that the F:BI destroyed the Presidential limousine soon after the assassination. He implied that the FBI destroyed the limousine because there were bullet impact marks on the windshield and perhaps other items of evidence that would cast serious doubt on. the \Lone Assassin Theory\ of the Warren Commission. Saltzman's presentation, which lasted almost three hours, was a disorganized collection of facts, picture~. statistics, assumptions, truths, half-truths, and insinuations that was app~t.rently intend~d to \let the ~epJbers of the audience come to. their own conclu$i()ns.\ Saltzman's theories and the evidence to back them up were in. such a haphazard fashion that although he created serious doubts in the minds of those present as to the veracity of tbe Commission's findings, rnany members of the audience also had serious doubts about Saltzman's grasp of the complete truth surrounding the nightmarish events in Dallas in 1963. . . l~ecause the chance is there that Union would advance beyond the preliminary round of the ·NCAA tournament into the Co~tinued on Fag¢ 4 Facultg Promotions, Dean ... Appointments Ann.ounced Martin Lichterman has been named Dean of the Faculty and William L. Weifenbach has been appointed Dean of Graduate and Special Programs. Eight faculty promotions, including two to the rank of full professor, were also announced by President Martin ·recently. Dean Lichterman has been at Union since 1966, coming to the college from the post of Director of the New England Board of Higher Education, a regional planning and coordination agency. A graduate of Harvard University, he earned a doctorate in American history at Columbia Uni-versity and has taught at · MIT, Princeton University and Rutgers. Appointed to the faculty as Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences, he has been serving since . last fall as acting dean of the faculty. Dean Weifenbach first joined the faculty in 1964 as assistant dean for special programs, and since last · fall he has been the acting dean. A graduate 9f the University of Wisc<msin. he tallght philosophy and served in various administrative roles at the University of Kansas City, Co~umbia Unive.rsity .a.nd American University before coming to Union. Dean Lichterman is now the ranking u~ademic official in Union's undergraduate academic program while Dean Weifenbach fills a similar position for the college's evening division, special programs and graduate programs. Promoted from associate to full professor are Michael Shinagel of the English department and V. Ennis Pilcher of the physics department. Advanced from assistant to associate professor are William J. Continued on Pa_ge 3 Concert The Union College Glee Club and the Wellesley College Choir will give a eombined eon~ert Sunday, Feb-. 13 at 4 p.m. in Memorial Chapelat Union. The groups, aeeompanied by orchestra, wiD perform Baeh~s \Magnificat in D. Malor ,\ Brahms' \Marie& lieder •• and Handel's Coronation Anthem,. ''Zadok the Priest.\ The concert b open free to the pt.abUc.

.Page 2 CONCORDlf£.l'{SIS, Feb. 11, 1972 Edttol'·in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff 170-4956. Features Editor , M~tthew Sw~rtz Alltigg Sports Editor . Mark Mindel Photography Ertitor Dave Conre} A-sst. Photo Editors Scott Gorcdon Jeff W eilburg News· EditQr Howard Stone , · ·M:anaging l!;ditor · : \Doug Wong · 346·973.5 Busi~u!S~t Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum As5t. Managing Editor Asst. Business Manager Gail W .. Goodman Michael Hutley Contributing Editrirs · Subscription Manager William Holleran Thoma~ J. Con!ey Mike Me.serole ~ · ; National· Advt. Manager Peter \Bickef:man · Mar~ Shulrn~n STAFF: Bob Johnson, Larry Wharton, Jon Philipson, Bill Westheimer, Steve Ente, Richard Kern, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. Bain, Jody Sa!ilow, Charles Long, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald, Reid Russell, Paul Connors, Phyllis Edelman, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Ro~mary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, D~trbara McDonald, PattySipe. · Published Tues-days and Frigays dunng the sctaoQI year by _the student' · .. - body of J;Jnjon College~~ Schene_ctady, N. Y ,, National Adv.ertising . - · Representative,. National E~ucational Advertising SerVice, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial offtce, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The Worid Publications, 771 State Street, ~chenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346·2356, Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy.$8 a vear delivered anywhere ~n the United States. May Be the tast Straw The prohibitort of · the i)asketball team from post-season tournament play cannot be olamed solely on the New Engalnd Small College Athletic Conference, for the Conference's action was consistent with its policy (however .ridiculous that may be) of banning tournament play extending more than one week beyond the season's end. Yet we were still shocked by the decision because hardly anyone realized that this was Conference policy. Why the general surprise? The answer is simple: the administration never ·bothered to inform. most of the College community ·of Conference restrictions when we entered the organization a year ago. Indeed, there was virtually no consultaion on any level before our official plunge into the cloistered world of New England college sports. As has been the case in many events in recent years, the administration felt no compulsion to tell most people exactl~ what we were getting into, but rather utilized its paternalistic stance which has effectively aided in stifling campus dialogue. While the question of whether Conference membership will be beneficial to Union over a long term is still open, it is indisputable that to this point, we have realized no obvious advantages from the association, and. instead have borne the burden of annoying restrictions on the autonomy of our athletic policy. This latest indignity, especially as it originates from a horribly inconsistent policy on tournament play, may well be the last straw. · • While administrative shortsightedness and arbitrary decision- making ha.ve been largely to blame for the current mess, we cannot ignore the non-role played by the College Senate in the dispute. Professor Bick's forceful emergency resolution, which sought to annul the Conference's dicision by legislative action, was revised and weakened to the extent that the final version approved (which Bick described as \emasculated\ and on which he voted negatively) merely expressed dismay and urged the President to do that which he has shown no inclination to do - virgorously protest the ruling. Governance structures may .corne and go, but a self-perpetuated impotence continues to render.effort through legislation fruitless. In summary, the administration makes decisions without debate and the faculty-student councils debate quite a bit but rarely decide on anything involving a risk. These may be regarded as strong and perhaps offensive words by those in power, but even they fail to convey the depth of anger and disappointment being experienced by people involved, whether directly or merely emotionally, with the College's athletic program. If this incident is to have any po~itive con11equence, it might be the comprehension that it is time to stop hiding behind the safety of semantics and assume the risks of an activist course in College affairs. For the immediate, stu<lents should exert pressure on the administration to defy the Conference ruling. Concerning the future, there should be. an extensive reexamination of the value of membership within the Conference, as there are many unanswered questions. An awakening of student interest may occur too late to help our basketball fortunes, but perhaps it would serve to prevent future blunders of this kind. Certainly the team and the students generally deserve better. Peter Dickerman Kleinkauf: No Fault On Caddy In response to the photograph of the Cadillac printed in the February 4 issue of Concordy., it has been called to tny attention by Mr. Kleinkauf that the student owner of the car and not the campus police is guilty of inaction concerning its removal. Our apology. However, it must be urged that the administration do everything in its power to remove the auto from the campus for security as well as aesthetic reasons. It is hoped that the college will now act in getting the car removed and then bill the student for the r.emoval. Fihally, the student who shall -remain nameless, deserves the sincere thanks of the entire college community for displaying the high degree of consideration for others which is so sorely missing on this campus. - L.S.S. To the Editor: · Yesterday, the AU College Senate rejected the proposed calendar change, at least partially on the basis of the results of the poll of the student body conducted by fhe Student Senate. It is interesting to note that more than 50% of the Student Senators failed to distribute and .-eturn the questionnaires to the Student Senate. One faculty representative to the All College Senate expressed the opmton that the low response to the questionnaire indicted apathy among the students. Student apathy? Most of the students never had a chance to respond! Patty Sipe, '74 \' ljl \' * To the Editor: I was disturbed to find in the last Coneordy that Mr. Doug Wong those to ignore the purpose of my letter but rather took offense at it, possibly interpreting it as a racial slur. I am well aware that he is a membe'r of this college community - which part of it I do not know. For that reason I pointed out that there are at least two communities on this campus. Whether he is a member of one of these .. majority\ communities (black and white) or is a member of some other smaller community I have no idea. What is dear to me is that his attack on my letter was in many ways similar to Mr. Kendrick's attack in reference to what Mrs. Malloy said concerning \your people\. Is there really so little trust on this campus? Must everything that is spoken or written be looked on warily for the racism and prejudice that \it must include?\ Trust is so important and yet it is so lacking. Why must Mr. Wong and Mr. Kendrick look for and FIND bigotry where 'there simply is none? Allan Windt \' \' * * To the Editor: As a freshman, one's first inclination is to ask whether he has made the right decision in attending a particular school. In deciding on Union as my future alma mater, I was influenced by several factors. Firstly, Union has long been reputed as an institution of the highest academic calibre. I liked the size of Union; a small schQol affording ·an excellent ratio between teacher and pupil. Union offered me a campus, perhaps .a minor attribute in many pe.ople's eyes, but to me, a very important asset. And then I also remembered being impressed, during mY interview, with the idea that in a small schQol such as Union, I would be afforded the oportunity of participating in many school activities. This immediately impressed me; coming from a small high school, I had long been active in student government, . newspapers, and sports. In arriving at Union, I found to my delight that, yes - activities Were opened to alL Joining clubs required but a signature. Broadcasting on WRUC did not even require a voice test! And finally, going out for the freshmen basketball team - in this area I naturally expected a more competitive atmosphere. But alas, even here everyone made the team. What then is the nature <if this article? My bitterness is that I will not ' be playing basketball for Union this winter. Por my interviewer- and also the illustrative Union College Bulletin forgot to inform me that in this so-called liberal and progressive college, requirements such as near crew- haircuts were a necessity. I am 'I refused a position on the basketball team because my h~r is too long. Simply becaus~ 1:1 coach wears.his hair in a marine- cut style, does this mean conformity for all? Yes, in this atmosphere where intellectualism thrives, we are lowered to the basest form of social pressure. Perhaps I just do not understand. How can one's physical .appearance f!lter his effect, and most importantly, his desire to- .play basketball? Hairlength Was never a question raised in high school baH, certainly I was not expecting to encounter this difficulty in the college ranks. Must I bore you w_ith the realities tbat even in the more conservatiw colleges :in the nation, coaches can no longer make demands on their athletes concerning such banal issues as hairlength? That at Union, a school which prides itself on and stresses its ideal and sound principles, can be poe of the few remaining colleges in the country still adhering to such absurd traditions, is a sorry reflection. No, I do not want to transfer out of Union. My main intention in coming to college was not to play basketball; but to attain an education. In the academic sense I will learn here. Yet it .is Union College, in its application, which stress·es \outside areas of interest.\ The leal'ning experience of playing college basketball is being denied me and the countless others who would have tried out for the team. Needless to say, that with a squad of perhaps twenty-five to choose · from, Union's fresbmen'. team might not presently be wallowing ina rather dismal season. I will st.IrVive not playing hasketl)all; perhaps I'll put on a few extra pounds, hut I never intended to turn professional anyhow. The question is, can Union College survive playing games with · it~ st.udents and prospective a:ppHcants? · Can Union continue to exist · as a community that professes its .progressivity, yet one which dwells in antiqUity? · Jeffrey Benay '75 * * * * To tlle Editor: May I take this opportunity to express., on behalf · of the publicity staff of the Mountebanks, our sincerest apologies for any damage which might have been done through the use of the rubber stamp· we had made to publicize the PEACE production. We now realize that this was a mistake, and its use has been discontinued. By way of explanation, I submit that a wave of exuberant energy has been present in the Mountebanks this term, and we have been experimenting. with many new forms of media-expression. Many have worked. This method has not, for bad publicity has been created by it. We have defeated our entire production effort. We are terribly sorry, and ask the understanding of the college community in this matter. Harry Tipton Pre.siden_t Martin To Spe_ak At. N. Y.S. Legislative Forum On Tuesday, February 15, College President Harold C. Martin will'address the New York State Legislative Forum bri\\Challenge and Response - the Independent College in the '70s.\ The meeting will be held at Chancellor's Hall, New York State Education Building in Albany, from 10 a.m. to 12 noon. The Faculty Women's Club of Union invites. its members and anyone from the college coinmunity who is interested, to attend. Au informal luncheon will be served after the meeting, at the Hotel Wellington. For further details on the luncheon, call Mrs. R.G. Peck, 377-3245. . Further information on the Legislative Forum may be secured from Mrs. E.J. Malloy, 393-292(t. ~~~rA.:rETT:EI a RADIO • ElECTRONICS ASSOCIATE S'f.ORES OF ~!~!rf~~~itSEIDEN SOUND Schenectady, N.Y., 12305 INC. £AVALIERS SPECIALIZE- ' HOT DOGS (new hot dog sauce) & HAMBURGERS SPECIALIZE- HOME MADE COOKED FOOD OPitN WEEKDA VS 6- 1:00AM WEEKENDS 6 - 4:00 AM under new managership Corner Erie Blvd. & Jefferson St. 'ForfhWHJ.· G&ri'ili'alll.in\s~:' . . ,, . }hose ·yt.haKnow •. Have been ~recommmdinS - cheek with us fint . . . H~RSIIElt . MAURICE B WA(.:rER ~·3 Union ·ara~uate$.fn· Graubatt l'a'mily\ t 66\ ,JAY ST. FOR HONEST SE~I(i;E ANl> GOOD JEW'ELRV

choose team playing ut on a I never is, can playing and Can · as a its which '75 to f the the rest '· we the was a been y of wave been this been new ssion. y has have ask the Chief Of Staff Haldmtan- Does He Control Nixon? by LES GOLDMAN The recent utterance by presidenti;1l advisor H. R.. · Haldeman has got to be one .of the scarie&t statements made to tile press in quite a few years. Haldeman, you may recall, made the statement that those people · who disagreed with the President on his Vietnam policy were \consciausly aiding and abetting the enemy.\ 'this is essentially the constitutional definition of treason. Admittedly, this is an election year, and political rhetoric can get a little carried away. However, the kind of statement that Haldeman made is dangerous .and' contributes nothing to the discussion on how to end the war in Vietnam. it does make one begin to wonder if the Pr~sident;s right to appoint people to advise him should not be more closely controlled by the Senate. Haldeman has no real official position. in the government, He is ess.entially Nixon's chief of staff. This is a job that (}oes not have to be confitmed by the Senate. Haldeman, in his capacity as \chief of staff,\ has a great deal of control over who the President ... Se,n.ate On Calen;dar And Master ·schedule Continued from Page 1 Biophysics course. encountered by students in the The next matter to be process of choosing courses. considered was the proposed The Senate considered a . calendar clmnge. Peggy Miller, motion to refer the report of the who was res.ponsible for the Committee on the Freshman Student Senate-conducted poll of Year ·to the appropriate the Student Body on the committees in the governance proposed calendar change structure for discussion and reported to the Senate. Of the submission of written reports to 371 students who responded to the Senate as soon as possible. the questionnaire, 19 registered The restriction that these reports no opinion, 122 supported the must be submitted soon enough change, and 230 supported for the Senate to act on the continuation of the present report before the end of this calendar, Student Senators were academic year was imposed. The ch~u:ged with tile responsibility of motion was carried, with one distributing the questionnaires to vote in opposition. living units and returning them Prof. Carl Niemeyer presided to the Studeni Activities Office. over the meeting in the absence Announcement of distribution of of President Martin. sees. Walter Hickel · claimed, when he resigned a few months ago, that he could not ~ee the President because Haldeman would not arrange it. The President is be~:;:oming more and more isolated from the nation as a w\tole. The statement that Haldeman made sounds very simi1at to statements that were being made at the end of the Johnson Adminh;tration. So it would s,eem that the problem of presidential isolation is not limited to Republicans or to the Nixon Administration. It would seem that what is needed is to make sure that there is some balance in the advisors closest to the President. During the Kennedy and early Johnson administrations, the trend was somewhat to tile left of Nixon's advisor&. What is really needed is far someone to play an adversary role in the President's own staff. The only time this probably occurred in th·e Nixon Administration was. when Daniel Moynihan was an advisor to the President on damestic affairs. Moynihan counterbalanced much of the more conservative advice Nixon reeeived from his other advil)ors. This led to such proposals as the Family Assistance Program and a minimum guaranteed income. Thus, although Haldeman's statements on Vietnam are scary enough in what they imply, probably a larger concern should be that this is the man who controls who the President meets an~ ~hat inform~tion h~ is given .. the . questionnaires to the p . • d · t M . t• · A . Senators wa.s made in ·~Blitlier\ .. resl en . ar In .. nnou·nces on the Frtday precedmg the . • - · ,I;:foi~~tely. J3o·~orll\~~!i!Ifs Ei-ght Faculty · Promotio,ns Student Senators picked up the ·- p questipnnaires, and t:wenty Conti~ued from .Page I . ·returned lhem. Miss Miller cited · Daniels, political science; John this fact ·as the major factor in R. S 0 wa, chemistry; and Donald the low response to tfie R. 'thurston, history and questionnaire. Dave Robbins political science. pointed out that in his opinion, Promoted from instructor to impetus fer such a change, has assistant professor are P. never come from the students, Frederick Hartwig, political but student interests have always science; and Delia G. Moore and been cited as the major W. Loretta Walker, assistant arguments for the change. librarians. Division reports indicated that Prof. Shinagel had been Division 3 voted overwhelmingly . teaching at Cornell University for against the change, Division 1 three ·years when he was voted 9-3 against the change, appointed to the faculty in 1967. Division 4 reported a very clilse He has been chairman of the (8.:7) vote: in favor of the change, English department at Union and Division 2 reported n<> ·i-eat since 1968. A graduate of ()berlin sentiment either for or against College with a doctorate· from the change. Harvard, he. is a specialist in 18th The proposed calendar was century English literature and rejected 17-1 with 2 abstentions. has written two books, ''Daniel The Senate unanimously Defoe and Middle Class appro:ved a motion to accept the Gentility\ and \Pornography and concept of a Master Schedule the Rise of the Novel: 1660 ... 1760.\ System, leaving the responsibility Prof. Pilcher, a member of the of working out the details to Mr. faculty since 1956, is a specialist Schmidt. Included in that motion in neutron behavior. A graduate was a provision to include a of Emory University with a question on pre-registration doctorate from North Carolina forms to determine conflicts State College, he was affiliated Blood Drive with the Brookhaven :National Laboratory before coming io Union. He spent the 1962-63 academic year as a guest scientist with the Swedish Atomic Energy Company and in 1968-69, was a lecturer at Haile Selassie l University in Ethiopia under a Fulbright Grant. Union faculty .in 1967. Prof. Thurston is a specialist in East Asian Studies and has lived for five years in Japan, two of those years doing resident · research under a Ford Foundation Area Fellowship. A graduate of Syracuse University, he earned his doctorate from Columbia University and has been a member of the faculty since 1966. Pr<if. Hartwig joined the faculty in 1968. A specialist in public opinion research, he is a graduate of Lawrence College and received his doctorate from Northwestern University. Mrs. Moore has been an assistant cataloguer in Schaffer Library since 1967. A graduate of the University of Michigan, she earned a master's degree in library science from the State University of New York at Albany. Mrs. Walker joined the library staff as an assistant reference librarian in 1968. A graduate of Howard University, she has a master's degree in library science from the State University of New Yotk at Albany. The appointments of both Deans, as well as Prof.· Hartwig's promotion are effective immediately. The ot.her promotions take effect at the end of the current academic year. SKIDMORE & UNION ~ I • - • ' '' -, ' ' • •-. :' ' o'- -~ ; ' \' c' ~-' c ~. ? ~ .. ~ ~: i ~ ' ( 1 ~ J ' t : if, ~ ~ ~ ~ CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 11, 1972 · Page 3 Tickets will go on. sale Monday, February 14 for Roberta Flack, who will perform in Proctor's Theater on Friday, February 25 at 8:30p.m. Tickets are $3.25 for Utiion students and $4.25 for others and at the door. ~·~~=-=-=-= . . The organization which buys used books will have a representative on . campus on February 15 at Carnegie Hall. Last year as this date approached ther~ was a, con!]iderable . increase in the nimiber of stolen textbooks. Safeguard your property and be sure to have your . name in all textbooks belonging to you. . * * * * Make appointments now for summer job interview· in Atlanta Community action and education house. Great pay: $25 per week plus room, meals and transportation to Atlanta and back. Participate in youth programs. ~ edutarional artd recreational - and welfare rights organizing. Blacks, whites, men or women who want to work in this predominantly black situation, see· Frank Isler, Steve Spellman, Mark CQven, ·or Professor David Snider. Make appointments for interviews with David Snider. The director of the center wiH hold on-campus interviews during the week of February 14. * ... * * The fifth subscription series concert will be presented by ·the Albany Symphony Orchestra on February 19, the Palace Theatre, 8:30 p.m. Julius Hegyi will conduct. The program will include Anton Webern's Passacaglia for orchestra, Op. I. The Passacaglia was composed in 1908 for large orchestra. Robert Schumann's Symphony No. 3 in E flat major, op. 97, his \Rhenish\ symphony was completed in 1850. The Third Symphony is actually the fourth, and Schumann's last essay in the symphonic form. The Symphony No. 28 in C major, K. 200, was composed by Wolfgang Mozart in 1773. The final selection for the program is Silvestre Revueltas Ventanas composed in 1931 and first performed in 1932. Revueltas Price for the announcements will be twenty-five cents each. If interested, _please contact Mrs. Marra in Student Activities by March 20. * ,, * * A Student Food Committee has been formed. It meets eve!) couple of weeks and is composed of students from the different dorms. Its purpose is to serve as a pipeline between the students and Saga. On February 8th, they met and chose Robin Carlson and Steve Tytko as co-chairmen. They will meet again on February 16th, at 6:30 P.M. in West College Dining Han .. Other members · thus far include George Mar~h am, Kermit Williams, Robin Mentha, and Richard A. Siegel. Anyone interested is invited to attend these meetings.· ·* * * * Many ticket sellers are needed for the Roberta Flack concert. Tickets will be sold in four hour shifts at Student Activities and three · hour shifts at Proctors Theatre in Schenectady. If interested, please contact Barb Sherman or 370-360 I. * * * * WR UC has two major broadcast events coming up this weekend. First, starting at noon on Sunday, will be a broadcast of the entire Leonard Bernstein Mass for Kennedy. Then, twelve hours later, W R U C wi 11 rebroadcast the war that took place between the Spartans and Athenians last Saturday. * * * * The next meeting of the Student Senate is Tuesday, February 15, at 7:00 P.M. in HU 115. Voting on the Senate Reform proposal will be held at this time. On Wednesday, February 16, and Thursday, f'ebruary 17, the Student Senate will once again sponsor a blood drive for the Schenectady County Red Cross. The extravaganza will take place in HU 115 and 117 between the hours of 11 A.M. and 5 P.M. both days. The brothers of Phi Gamma Delta have pledged to donate a keg of beer to the living unit with the highest percentage of donors. Rumor has it that the brother are going to do everything they can to see that the keg does not leave Fiji premises. Prof. Daniels came to Union in 1966 from the University of Iowa where he earned his doctorate_... specializing in public law. A graduate of Upper Iowa University, he served last year as an Alfred E. Smith Fellow, working in Albany in the New spend spring vacation in B£HfflUOH · was one of Mexico's most gifted composers. Ventanas is his first work for large orchestra. * ... * * Phela-Ndaba (End of the Dialogue), a powerful documentary on apartheid in ; South Africa by five black · mem hers of the banned Pan . Africanist Congress, wil be shown at SS 016, February 15, at 8 P.M. At a reception which follows in the Social Sciences Faculty Lounge, the Reverend Kenneth N. Carstens, the only white South African to have served on the United Nations' Special Committee on Apartheid, will be available to discuss the forty-five minute film. There is a very real need for replenishing exha_usted blood supplies during the winter season, and all those who want to give blood are welcome. ' ' York State Budget Office. Prof. Sowa is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and Sf99 P.S ...... trips to earned his doctorate at the Puerto Rico, Nassau and up & Acapulco available University of Pennsylvania. A specialist in polymer chemistry, CONTA{\l' LOUlS:E AT SKIDS he taught at th~; University of 584-51JO- ext. 505, or 587-1571 Delaware before joining the ------~--------.....J Student tickets ($1.50) may be purchased at the Albany Symphony office in the D & H Building, Suite 26, or by telephoning 465-4755. ... * * ... Graduation announcements will be available for purchase in the Student Activities Office.

Page 4 CONCORDIENS1S, Feb. 11,. 1'971 _. J • .,.. •. J ' ··-Concordy Sports Cage:rs ·Shrug Rulirlg With Big Win by BILL HOl.L~RAN · . The. \outloo~\ written· Up. in few mistakes in the first half to play. Hartwick started pressi~g Union·~ bas~etball team, the lates~. ~s~ue Qf the program lead at the buzzer, 40-31. Union's guards. at t}le ll:3Q all scorers with l'9 ~tallies. He canned 14 of those in the first half. undaurtt<!d · by the NESCAC's warned that the Warriors were a The first few minutes of the mark, but even that move proved announcement that- they would team. to be feared in spite of their contest saw both squads engaged futile as the Dutchmen continued Balance was the key· to the Dutchmen attack last night, as Mike Doyle hit ten free throws en route t~ an 18 1 .point night. He even bombed in a ra:rely-seen shot from the outside. Geoff Walker added 15 in another top- flight performance going both ways. not be able to accept a bid to di11apppinting -6-7 reco.rd. in somewhat' of · a defensive to widen theirlead. . the NCAA regi6nal tourney if Boasting gllard Kevin Mulcahy, struggle, with the lead see-sawing The Garnet made 11 mockery ·Of invited, demolished last year's a fC?rmer team~ate of Tom back and forth until tlte Gamet the Hartwick defense with their regional champ, Ha,rtwick, .. jri Hacl't:r'.s:~t ~th?ltc Central, a.nd finally got Untracked against yet precision passing, working the Memorial Fieldhouse · .Jast rught: · · 6-5 center -Mike. Reed, ~artw1ck anothe zone defense. ball spectacularly around the 76~53. h§l(! supJ?osedly been playmg well Tom Bacher grabbed the offensive zone. During one span The Garnet have now won 10 despite several \tough\ losses. rebound of Tom Comb,'s long of almost magical ballhandling, straight, and have not lost on the . Instead, the. Warriors playe.d jumper, and dumped it in at the Union was able to freeze the ball Fieldhoase floor in 13 straight . hke the mediocre team . their buzzer to give the Dutchmen for nearly three minutes. contests, dating back to last. record makes thero out to be, as their nine point halftime lead. Late in the game Jim Tedisco winter's one-point loss to the Garl!et totaled their The Garnet were in complete put on a one-man dribbling Wesleyan. That is the only opponents m the .s.econd half by a control throughout the second show; and he had the crowd on contest Union has dropped at 36~22 score. Un~on had shaken half, outscoring the Warriors 18- its feet in no time, darting Saturday · sees the 14-2 Dutchmen off to Hoboken, N.J., t.o face a surprising Stevens Tech five.· The Stutemen, a 90·40 victim .of Union's last winter,. are 7-1 so far this season with impressive wins over Pace and RPI in their last two starts. home in the last two seasons. off ·a eold shootmg hand and a 9 over the first nine minutes of around and through startled~ SPOR·TS PRO·FILE: On··Tom Bacher by MARK MINDEL As this .paper was put to bed, the outrageous and angering. news of the decision by the N.E.S.C.A.C. reached the college campus community. With this news as top priority not only to anyone· cqncerned with sports, or the basketball team in particular, but to anyone remotely interested in the· day to day goings on at Union, · it is very difficult to concern oneself with anything besides this 'executive' ruling. Especially when writing about sports, and espeeially when writing about a basketball player. With apologies to Tom Bacher~ 1 pose but two questions. 1). How can a group of men so far removed from sports, and basketball in· particular, make a decision which.. affects so negatively n~t only 1700 students, but more importantly twelve dedicated and deserving athletes? · 2) To what positive avail was this decish:m made, and moreover the decision to form, and/or enter this so-called ••athletic\ league? * * * * The spotlight this week falls on 6'3\ forward Tom Bacher of the 14-2 strea:king Garnet Cagers. Tom graduated from. Catholic Central in Troy, as the unanimous player of tile year choice in the Diocesan League, one year after the same honor was · bestowed upon teammate Jim Tedisco. In his senior year, the '68-'69 season, Tom led the league in scoring at a 23.2 clip and also in rebounding. He also led C.C.H.S. to Diocesan league honors, and to top ranking offensively, 68.9 . ppg.,. and defensively, 59.6 ppg. At Union Tom decided' to sit out his freshman year to the surprise of many. In his sophomore year, last season, he looked as if the brief respite had not affected him in the least, scoring 335 points at 16 a game, and hauling down 180 rebounds. He ranked second off the boards, and third in total markers. This year Tom has moved past fraternity-mate Mike Doyle' in scoring, while battling Geoff W.aJker for second place behind Mike in the rebounding battle. In . : - · !J'ofn: J!acher, 6'3~ forward on the :. f]Qlle.ge-·b(JSketball· Team. Tom. hails jron'J. Catholic -· Ceittiaf : Hig'h ·. Sc'haof {n Troy, where he _ was .. uritinimoiisly- ·s~liu;ted. player of the year, . . this ·season's: ·balanced . team was nine out of 12 from 18 feet scoring,_ Ba,cher iS averaging· out in the first half to keep the around LS points per game, and Garnet from getting blown off by pulling down· close to seyen . the the hot-shooting first half caroms per ~ontest~ . performance of the Ephmen. Tom's mam assets to the squad· · He finished with a season's are the way. he teams so high of 21 points, scoring only 1m effortlessly w1th Doyle and an opening three-point play in Tedisco, and, of course, that the second half. He was taken consistent and beautiful heels-up, out early when Coach Walters turn arou?d jumper. went to ~ three guard offense to Tom 1s .the best shooter, counterattack the Ephmen's thr~ per~e~tage-w1se on the team. He guard press. 1s htttmg over 50% from t~e field Tom has led the team in and arou~d 75% from th~ hne. . scoring f9ur times this season, . Bacher~ best ~~me this season including in the last two .games. . came agamst Wllliams. where he Against . Albany State in the RULING (cont .. ) Continued from Page 1 Capital District Tour.ney he was tops in both scoring and rebounding, in a losing cause. Union's play-by-play 'men, Eastern Regional playoffs, \further competition\ is thus a possibility. Union's regular season ends with a game at the University of Rochester on February 26, but the first round of the tournament does not get underway until. Monday, March 6. If the Gamet were lucky enough to advance all the way to · the-Minch lS, 16 and 17 finals at Evenasville, Indiana, they would be playing basketball on the last three days of Winter Term final exam week. Thus post-season Steve Fitz and Bill Duffy ate play by Union would violate all impressed with 3acher. Says three clauses of the league Duffy, \When they pull those gu\delines. goofy defenses like the box and Speculation as to what the one, and freeze out Tedisco, then College's course of action should Bacher .gets the ball and shoots be in the wake of the from 15 feet out and hits announcement has been mixed, ·consistently. I know it unnerves altbougp students appear to be. .some of the teams. When Tom almost unanimous iii calling for whirls around and without the college to drop out of the looking throws it in the basket, it conference, or violate the league has got to be a maddening shot ruling by accepting the bid for the other team ... anyway. The Administrati0n has TQm's career high is 32 point!>, not indicated if it will attempt to thrown in against WesJeyan la!!t appeal the decision, or have it season. o.vertumed in some way. Hartwick defenders until he was fouled intentiona-lly. Tedisco came out on top in another confrontation with a highly rated guard, scoring 14 points off Mulcahy while holding Hartwick's star to seven. Bacher had himself a fine night, leading Saturday's contest will be a battle Qf the winning streaks, matching Union's 10-game skein with Steveps' own seven-game string. Morris and Zullo Out, Mats Lose by MINNER Gary Morris is walking around campus with his arm cast in a sling. Mark Zullo is lying sick in bed. And it's just another page in the continuting story of The Rise and Fall Of The Garuet Wrestlers. This chapter opened with Zullo being asked whether or not he wanted to wrestle. He had been sick for a few days with the contagious 'athlete's flu.' The sophomore captain replied in the affirmative, and taking advantage of his weight loss due to his illness, managed to drop down to the \who's going .to make it this week\ 118 p9und weight class. AI Calabro then dropped into Zullo's normal 126 class. On the way to the meet, Zullo m;1rked the path to Colgate, a1a Henzel and Gretel, by depositing his morning's training meal along the road, three sepa~at~ tjnu~s. , After a quick gargle, he easily decisioned his oponent 10-2. But then the strategy failed as Calabro was beaten 8-5 at 126. Slowly the Colgate lead increased until by the eighth match the score stood J7.,5, Union's only other points coming via Jeff White's 150 pound draw. Morris took the mat and grabbed a quick lead. In the second period however, his opponent from the bottom, caught Morris with an illegal hold. Morris writhed in pain. It was up to Coach Everling . whether to continue the match. If he felt \Mercury\ couldn't wrestle, Union would gain si:x points by virtue of a default. But Everling gave the impaired Morris the nod, and Gary struggled bravely back to the mat. Unmercifully, his opponent atta.cked Gary's arm and wrenched out a pin. Once again it was six points they got, and six points we did not. And twelve points, is, well, twelve points. Unsportsmanship won out over principle. Union got back 12 points on back-to-hack pins by Wardell, at 5:08 and Benedict at 3:24, but it was not enough as Colgate held on for a 23-17 win. If a wrestler can physically continue a match after an injury, every possible attempt should be made to let him wrestle. I have no remote idea how bad Morris was in.juted Wednesday. Coach Everling realized that six points via a disquaUfication is cheat wrestling tactics if- his man can in any way continue. As a matter elf principle he told Morris to wrestle. But as stated, Gary has his arm in a sling today, possibly broken. And the Garnet wrestlers are now 2 and 8. The next match is Saturday at home against Amherst. The big attraction is the questionable pairing of Howie Benedict and the only opponent who · has ever beaten him twice, Gary Sklaver. Sklaver, however has slimmed down to 190, and may pass up the heavyweight affair with the bulked-up, 220 pound Benedict. Mark Zullo will probably miss the match because of his sickness. · Fros.h Win Fourth In Row by FRANK DeLUCIA Forging to their fourth straight victory the DUtchmen Frosh buried Hartwick 69-51. Good defense and steady foul shooting kept the Yearlings close through the first half, as the very tall visitors collected points underneath. Barry Roff peppered the offense with six straight marks, staking The Garnet to a 21 ... 18 margin, which they retained 30-27 at the half. In the second half Charlie Gugliotta displayed why he has to be regarded as .the area's number Qne freshman ballplayer. Gugliotta totally outplayed his taller opponent in every phase of the game. For the contest he scored 26 points, he grabbed 16 rebounds and he added six assists, all game highs. But Gugliotta was not the whole stocy last night. The Dutchmen defense again was in command· with Jack. Comerford and Banj- 'Roff playing. superior \D\ while finding 10 and 16 points respectively. The Frosh meet Schenectady Community College this Saturday at home. .. '

I 1 l 1 ~ _< t as ith a s s j j t of in 16 .. . . . •• • Founded ot U11ion College 1877 . . ~- . Price Twenty Cents Senate Discusses Freshman Year by PETER DICKERMAN total of six of the fifteen (Ed. note .During its Committee members signed at A scene from the Mountebanks new play, PEACE~ A review may he found on page 4. meeting last week the College least one of the four minority Senate approved a mot ion reports appended. However, the referring the Report of the Ad f()cu!> for the present is on the Hoc Committee on the Freshman majority view. At the outset, the Year to the appropriate Committee states that its governance committees which, in proposals are derived from the turn, will submit written reports fundamental desire to \eliminate to th(! Senate evaluating .the all required courses and fixed Committee's ptoposals before the curricular structures and turn a end of this academic year. The student free ... to permit him the following is an overview of the opportunity to enjoy the kind of Freshman Report, with emphasis intellectual stimulation to which placed upon its controversial higher education in a liberal arts suggestions, which if enacted college is dedicated.'' The could greatly influence the Comm~ttee pivide~ subject College's future course.) matter mto t~ree maJor areas of President Martin appointed _concern: curn~~lar change, the the Ad Hoc Committee on the Freshman adv1smg system, and Freshman Year at the beginning the Freshmall: grading ~ystem. J e:ff Weilberg photo Long Range Plans Submitted; of the Winter term of the 1970- On the toptc of curnculum. the 1971 academic year, asking that Committee proposes th~t Comp. they concern themselves Ed .. 10 and ll be ret1tled and particularly with the problems of retat~ed, but that they be made choosing a major and Freshman elect!ves fo~ FreshD:ten, and that Comprehensive Education. The spectfi~ top1cs and mstructors be ;,riginal composition of the listed m . the catalogue for both Committee was exclusively CEO 10 .and I I. Also, the Co~p. a d B A II D · faculty: Professors Neal Allen, Ed. cur~1culu~ ~h~uld offer five- . o· n· ~ ,· . era t ·o ' . . . ' . a· Patrick Allen Theodore Bick week, lnterdiSCiplmary courses . • ·. 0 . .. . . . . l . n.. . · ; 1\r · .· .· . · es l re John Daniels: Daniel Driscoll: available to Freshmen and J Frederick Hartwig, Edwin Lewis, centered ar()und a· narrow topic. (Ed. Nate: ·The following is.. a_ condensation of a statement issued by the Long- Range Planning Committee of the College. It is a distillation of several months of work and represents an intermediate step towatd completing a report which ultimately will be submitted to the Board of Regents. It Wt;s released because \the important thing is that the committee get a clear sense of the community's response.\ One possible test to keep in mind might be this: \Is there any way we would know whether or -not we are successful in doing what we proposer All those who wish to respond should direct their written- comments to Mr. Bingham, who will transmit them to the committee. All who wish to present· thtlir ideas -to the College as a whole should feel .free to submit them to CONCORDJENSIS.) Snttenaent of purpose for th~ Coll~ge: To provide for individual intellectual fulfillment through a growing variety of educational opportunities at the post-secondary school level. Or: To offer education leading to degree programs for approx'imately 2000 under- graduate and graduate men and wom~;:n and · education of equal quality for a sma:Jlet. number innon-degree programs. Or: To prepare men and · women to make a living either through immediate participation in commercial or industrial or technical occqpations ot through advanced study. Or: To contribute to the personal, social; cultural and intellectual development of all members of the college community, particularly of students. Goals: L to maintain the unusual spread of programs in engineering, sciences, social sciences, humanities and to maintain rough :parity (balance?) . . Jan Ludwig, William Murphy, Two. such courses ~ould among them; . . _ :yaned p.ac.e. of ·p-rogress, . Byron- ·NichoJs.,., and .. David constttute Olltr_ coqrse ~redtt. .The 2. . ~o. develop more . proficiency examinations, altered Snider. This group then Report goes on to suggest \team- transdts':lplmary .programs and p~dag 0 ,gical prac.tice and requested that students he added, taught\ Comp. Ed. co~rses ~or t~e toptcal curncula that are technology, etc.; and the Student Senate's Freshmen, preferably involvmg hkely to result from them; 5. to increase the secio- Committee on Committees faculty from different Divisions. 3. to offer selected graduate economic diversity of the student named the fo1lowing people: Departmental requirements for erogr~ms ai}d to, develop a body. Nancy Reardon, Martin ;.reshmen sho~tl~ be h;,ld to ~n .semor . college c.oncept Objectives: Sherman, William Silver, and absolute. mm1mum, while (mcreast~g emphasts on Admissions: All five goals Scott Bowen (since graduated). departments should offer five enrollment mupper years~; suggest the likelihood of need for In the course of the Report's and/ or ten-wee~ cours~s, taking 4. to bre.a~ down deliberately a different selection of \feeder introduction, it is acknowledged ~he form of topu;al semma~ and the !radlllonaJ four-year schools,\ considerable increase in that \deliberations .... were rarely m!end.ed for non-majors, collegiate patterl!-s throug}l unanimous in outlook,\ and a pnmanly Freshmen. development of spec1al programs, Continued on Page·s Continued on Page 4 Maddox In Lecture At Skidntore Calls Nixon \One Big Hypocrite\ by TIM CAIN Lester Maddox was smiling and seemed confident and sure of himself as he faced a press conference in the Green Room of College Hall at Skidmore last Thursday. The Lieutenant Governor of Georgia, wearing a red, white, and blue tie upon which - the Liberty Bell was embossed, discussed his philosophy of government, his life, his state, and current national .problems. .Maddox originally had no intention of entering politics and he \only sought public office after watching people. run on one platform and live by another.\ Maddox was Very critical of President Nixon, whom he characterized as ••one big hypocrite.'' \Who was the· number one advocate of law and order in the 1968 campaign? Tricky Dick, that~s who. And what have you heard ftom him since? ... Not a thing;\ The Nixon Peace Plan is ''purely· political,\' · said Maddox. In proposing this 'Peace Plan, the President is <+aiding and abetting the enemy.\ Of all the candidates currently in the running for- the Presidency, \Wallace is the best one.\· said Maddox, and H'enry ·\Scoop\ Jackson of Washington would be his second choice. According to Maddox, recently announced candidate Shirley Chisolm \does not believe in this country and she does11't believe in our free enterprise system.\ The ide~! candidate for Maddox would be a \real good businessman,\ someone who would be free from the political establishment, and would not owe his presence in the White House to any particular person or group of people. Turning to his own state of Georgia; Maddox claimed that he has don~ more for the black people of his state than anyone ever did. He denied that he is a racist and said that the \racist\ tag is a product of -other people's prejudices. \Some people are obsessed with race,\ Maddox said; During this press conference, Maddox pointed to his own life as an example of What a man can achieve, although he may be from a disadvantaged background and lack formal education, because in America he has \the freedom to dream, build, accept chaUenges\ and work to better himself, \This nation is great because of free enterprise,\ Maddox concluded. The value of the free enterprise system and dishonesty and hypocrisy in government were the main themes of Maddox's speech which was delivered to an audience that filled three- quarters of College Han.· Maddox also talked about his own life and his experiences as Governor of Georgia. During the question and answer period after the speech, someone in the audience, who identified himself as a resident of Georgia, asked Maddox if he was aware of a segregated bus station in Cedartown, Georgia. Maddox replied that he wasn't aware of it. The youth then asked Maddox what he Was going to do about that bus station when he got back to Georgia. Maddox replied: \I see a lot of that here in New York and what are you doing about it, you rascal you, ... you loQg-haired thing.\ After the speech was over, there was a: · reception in Skidmore Hall, during which Maddox and some members of the audience continued their rather heated discussion of . Continued on Page S There will be an open forum on the tenure situations .this Thursday, February 17, at .7 p.m. in HU 115. Present at the forum wiD be Professor Theodore Dick (Math- ·ematics), Profess.or Robert Wells (History), Professor Willard Enteman (Philosophy), and Dean Martin Lichterman. Any students or other members of lhe college community wanting to learn more about the tenure policy and its alternatives are urged to attend this forum. Blood Drive On Wednesday, February 16, and Thursday. February 17, the Student Senate will once again sponsor a blood drive for the Schenectady County Red Cross. The extravaganza will take place in HU 115 and 117 between the hours of 11 A..M. and 5 P.M. both days. The brothers of Phi Gamma Delta have pledged to donate a keg of beer to the living unit with the highest percentage of donors. Rumor has it that the brother are going to do everything they can to see that the keg does not leave Fiji premises. There is a very real need for replenishing exhausted blood supplies during the winter season, and all those who want to give blood are Welcome. •

.. • Page 2 CONCORD/ENSIS, Feb. 15, 1972 Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff '370-4956 . Features Editor Matthe\\ Swart7 Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photography Editor Dave Conre~ Asst.·Photo Editors Scott Gordon Jeff Weilburg News Editor Howard Stone ·Asst. Managing Ef)itor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors William HolleFan Mike Meserole Peter Bickerman Managmg Editor Doug Wong 346-9735 Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Asst. Business Manager Mieha~l Hurley Subscription Manager Thomas J. Conley National Advt. Manager M~rk Shulman STAFF: Woody Guthel'z, Sam Brody, Bob Johnson, Larry Wharton, Jon Philipson, Bill Westheimer, Steve Ente, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, Georcge S. Rain, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald, Reid Russell, Paul Connors, Phyllis Edelnlan, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi 1 Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe. Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the school year by th·e student\ body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National· Advcrtisinl! Representative, National Educational Advertising Service,. Inc., CoUegt Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N. Y.C. Editorial off\JCC Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 j cents a copy. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. ' . Say Sontething! It is ironic and at the same time encouraging that suddenly there seems to be a spark of spirit arising within the student body. It is ironic because it has been so long since there has been any evidence of student interest in anything. But, it is encouraging because, also for the first time in a long while, there are several issues in the air, all of which are worthy of serious student consideration. The basketball tow;:nament question, previously discussed editorially, sets the tone for all else. For the truly important issue underlying the specifics of Whether the team plays or not is, once again, the way decisions are made for the Cellege. Since the present governance system was not in effect at the time the decision was made to join NESCAC, it is difficult to argue that question on general grounds. But the issue of student voice at Union does relate directly to the other matters, because the governance system under which the College is now supposed to function has as one of its major assumptions the idea that students are an intergral part of the community and are entitled to participate in decision-making. It seems that, the Administration is trying fulfilling their part of the bargain. On the front page of today's issue of Concordy, outlines are given of two major reports presently before the College: the Report of the Committee on the Freshman Year and the preliminary report of the Long-Range Planning Committee. Both are important because the effects of the proposals contained within them could change the face of the College. That the Planning Report has been submitted for consideration at this intermediate stage and the Freshman Year Report has been referred to the Divisions, the·Student Senate and the Curricuiar Affairs Committee for recommendations by the All-College Senate seem to be sufficient evidence that the attempt is being made to bring the Student Body into the decisionmaking process. The question now before us is whether the Student Body will take advantage of the opportunity being offered. That this should even be a question, after all the effort that went into getting the new governance system put into effect, is unfortunate, to say the least. And yet, it is hard to be enthusiastic about the contribution students will make to the debate on these issues. All one needs to do is look to the Student Senate, supposedly the repository of those most interested in the workings of the Cotlege - they are considering abolishing themselves because of lack of support, both from the senators themselves and the students as a whole. This need not be the case; indeed it should not be so. In other times, under far less favorable conditions, students here have had significant effects on College policy. When parietals were the issue, or when Nixon invaded Cambodia, the student voice was important on this campus. Now a voice has been provided within the system, to prevent poor policy and to initiate innovation. It is important that students respond to the issues before them. For if they don't, it will only serve as an invitation for a return to the situation which allowed policies to be adopted with no attempt at aU to elicit student To the Editor: President !vfartin should have no May I take this opportunity to reluctance in deciding to ignore express, on behalf of the this ill-conceived decision. There publicity staff of the is precedent for such an action. Mountebanks, our sin.cerest La&t faJI Hamilton sent its cross apologies for any damage which country team to Kansas for a might have been done through post season meet. J,t shQuld be the use of the .rubber stamp we noted for the record that no had made to publicize the Peace sanctions bave been imposed on production. the Continentals. We now realize that this WIIS a Perhaps, the appropriate mistake,. and its use has been authorities at Union . should disconti.nued. B~ way . of\ ~onsider . leaving the league explanation, I submit that a wave entirely. Many di!!advantages, of exuberant energy has been previously alluded to in present in the Mountebanks this •Concordiensis, have . been term, and we . have been imposed on Uni<?n's athletic experimenting wi~h many .new program as a result of. league for:ms of medw·e~pressxon. membership., No advantages to Many have worked. This has not, league membership have been for if bad ~~mblicity has been seen thus far, nor are .they likely created by xt, then we have to be realized in the future. The. defeated our entire production main argument for the league has. effort. always been, that in being in th~ We are t:UlY sorry, and ask ~he company (i)f such traditionally understandmg of the entire elite colleges, some of the college community in this matter. publicity and prestige might be Harl'y Tipton shared .with. Union. The Publiity Director methodology by which Union Editor's No.te: Mr. Tipton.'s would gain prestige and publicity letter was printed incorrectly in by belonging to a league that has the last issue, and the corrected neither standings, champion- versionis.beingre-runtonight. ships, nor publicity, is To the Editor: The dream of participating in the NCAA college division basketball tournament was . abruptly shattered last Thursday when the Union team was barred by the New England Small College Athletic Conference from accepting the long anticipated bid. The decision had nothing to do with Union's performance on the basketball court, nor did it reflect the overwhelming sentiment of Union students, faculty and administration, but rather is the result of the arbitrary (if not hypocritical) rules and restriction.s of the NESCAC. Apparently, the Executive Committee ·of the 'NESCAC felt that Union's participation in the NCAA tournament would not be consistent with the academic interests of Union or of the conference. While one might find it strange that the presidents of Bowdoin, Williams, Hamilton and Tufts are making decisions about what is and what is. not in the interests of Union College, the real issue is the whimsical manner in which the NESCAC makes its rules and decisions. the rules of the conference state that member institutions cannot participate in tournaments that extend for more than a week past the end of the given season. The one week rule conveniently permits member institutions to compete in the NCAA post season hockey tournament. That rule might be helpful if Union had a hockey team like every other team in the conference. There are also certain exceptions to the one week rule. If Union had a couple of shells and a crew team, it could participate in the Henley Regatta. Why an eight man crew team and not a basket ball team? Is the reason, perhaps, that basketball is a more common and plebeian sport that lacks the · snobbery (oops, prestige) of crew and that some of the conference's ~ost favored memberes indulge mystifying indeed. More publicity (if that, in fact, is the goal of intel'collegiate athletics at Union) would be realized by independently buildjng a small college basketball power, This dream is not as unrealistic as it may appear, Union has the coach, the interest, and one of the best basketball recruiting areas in the country. We urge students, faculty, and administration to carefully consider whether or not they wish to be bound by the capricious decisions of an athletic conference that is justified on the basis of quasi-elitist traditionalism. Lars ~aug-Jensen '73 Frank Messa '73 Steve Tofel '74 * * * * To the. Editor: In response to Bob Sperry's article on West, I feel that I must set the record straight. Too bad Mr. Sperry has been in West for only a year and a half; the picture has not always been so bleak as during his period of residency. When I first came to, Union, in May of 1970, West was a nice place to live. There were rugs in the halls and on the stairs, the windows were all in and the walls were covered with durable, though not colorful plastic wallpaper. lt was just as nice, if not better than Richmond, for Richmond had neither rugs, wallpaper, nor a dining hall. Then came the ill-fated Student Strike following Kent State. Ill-fated? Here, yes. It accomplished nothing. A combination of thwarted strike desires, plus the pressure of impending exams had a strange effect upon many West residents, many of whom, it seems, still live there. Slogans appeared on .the walls, wallpaper disappeared from the walls. At one time there were a dozen windows broken. . (How do I know? It was my job to count them.) The piecc-.de- resistance came one afternoon when a colossal water fight left most of the halls plus the back stairs under an inch of water. Do people who behave like this deserve res-pect, let -alone better housing? Since when? The more serious residents of West should have settled the nonsense then and there. Nobody cared, and then came the summer. That summer the walls were all painted a nice yellow, the floors and windows were. fixed and the area was generally spruced ·up in honor ofthe incoming fmsh. The word was passed on hOw much \fun\ it was to trash West, and the rest is history. As for Mr.- SpeHy's friends, I am sure that they cart understand that old age affects us all, including the plumbi:flg at West. U 11f ortuna.tely, Union's maintenance is a bit on· the slow side, and on this ·point I will agree with Ilim, · This brings us to today. West · is in sad shape. Did the walls write on themselves? Did the wallpaper (what~s left of it) choose to walk oft? Did the junk furnitur~ ask to be piled in the halls? No:! The residents .seem to ·be lazy and lack ~ivil pride. The walls don't need slogans, the furniture could easily be piled in one of the unused basement rooms and the people who eat in their rooms could at least have the courtesy to put their week's garbage in the bin outside, and their dead fish along with it. Remember, folks, people of the so-called \older generation\ who include many college administrators, still believe that students must be able to show their ability to keep up existing facilities as a preface to their eventual improvement. In closing, I wa.nt to take the opportunity te applaud Mr. Sperry in his attempt to instill a little civic pride in his fellow West residents. What do you say, folks? Are you able to accept the challenge? Dennis J.\ Todd * * * * Concordiensis will hold elections for its next Editor-In- Chief on Monday night, February 28, 1972. Elections will be held in Concordy's Editorial Offices in Room 23 of the Geology Building. Any member of the student body is eligible to tun for Editor-In-Chief, provided he makes his intentions known in writing to the incumbent editor by 11 p.m. Monday night, February 21, 1972. All persons whose names appear in the masthead of this issue of Coricordiensis are eligible to vote in the election which wiU be held between the- hours of 8 and 11 p.m. ----1 Tickets are now on sale for the Roberta Flack Concert, Friday, February 25, 8:30 p.m., at the Procters Theater. Tickets are $3.25 for Union students and $4.25 for all others. mcrew. ~ In addition individual athletes .------------- ........ ----------------; are permitted to participate in NCAA championships in such sports as swimming, wrestling, and track. Unfortunately, basketball is a team sport, so Gary Walters must bring a five man team rather than five individual athletes to the NCAA's. The Other Side of Today We would suggest, in light of the flimflam fashion in ~hich the conference makes its rulings Hand Ca,ndles -.Leather Belts - Stained Glass - Kaleidescopes - Empathy Cards- Poster- Incense- Silver- Jewelry- Handbags - . .concerning post-season })lay, that - ~.s. . ~ the Committee drt' ~Athletics ~ahtf' opinion. Books- African Drums - Indian Cloths - Body Oils • Shawls from Equador - Ponchos from Morocco - Barrettes • Mobiles - Wind Chimes • Papers .. Dresses - Shirts - Optoscopes .. Necklaces - Rubozos - Wall Hangings - Magazines ... Beads - Inflatable Chairs - Copper Jewelry - Art Nouveau Postcards • Sculpture - Pipes - Skirts - Whole Earth Catalog - Pouches - Rawhide· Vests- Rings- Pottery- Boxes- - .. · . . ,, i ~. J ( ' \\ • ... I. , ••• J• .. ~'\'\'• .• 1 . . .. -~' ~~- --· r I I ' ' .f

ft :k '0 is :r ·e d n .e,. .. d u ·l X s .. . e l 4. i •' •>'! ··, . ' j_. I • ... ,\le J Off The-~ Not On by MATTHEW SWARTZ When one comes face to face with a member of the Armed Serv,ices for a heart to stripe talk, the Marines beht 0 no exception, but · rather the extreme, the maintenance of objectivity, more so than in most retelling, approaches the impossible. With 1his much out in the open and very clearly an obstacle of almost insurmountable proportion, I take to relating my eXperience of Friday last With the Marine recruiters that Were oil this (yes, mine and yours both) campus. First, let me say that I was shocked, nay chagrined at the number of people that showed up. Write this. off to poor communications. Some twenty- Jive people marched two weeks ago downtown to the recruiting office but only three showed up at the Placement Office when they came to us. Why, it was an even match. Three on three. Imminent demise at the slip of a misplaced participle or improper gesture, to be sure. But, there we were, matching wits with the best the Marines had to offer {with all due · resp.ect to Gomer Pyle, USIVfC). The dialectic vs the code of Armed Service chivalry. The meeting began rationally enough with the men in khaki giving us their rap for prospective enlistees. I ignored most of this (i.e. the money one can earn after so many years of service and the fringe benefits for lifers) and tried to pick out whether or not they presented a two sided picture. By this I mean whether they made it a point that \war is hell\ even if you can take your basic training near \the best surfing on the continental U.S.\ They ·did not. The full color brochures showed Marines in parade dress and supersonic jet planes but the closest thing to Viet Nam was a soldier sitting amongst a group of Oriental children telling them a story (Horatio Alger was my guess) and a look of blanket confusion on their faces. We managed to steer the conversation to what their impressions of Viet Nam were, seeing that they had all seen front line action. Each impression was two~fold in nature: immediate response to an evnironment that day by day threatens your earthly existence and reflection after serving your time. One related his 'time over there at an air base as \like being in a fish bowl. You could look out and see nothing while kno~ing that you were under Charley's comtant surveillance.\' How did you respond to this, fair knight? \You just gotta dig a little deeper.\ Apparent fatalism? This guy had simply resigned himself to dying. He insisted that the time he spent there was not ugly in his mernory. He does, however, have reoccurring dreams of bUddies of his being blown to smitherines. Contradictions? Well, he claims that the little hair he has on the back of his neck bristles when he hears the Marine Corps hymn. An Open Letter To Solicit the AssistQnce of the Student Body. And what the Monday Night Old Chapel VoUey Ban League wants to know is: WHERE IS ANDREA? Help! The T.M.N.O.C.V.B.L. P.S. Anybody wishing to play, with or without Andrea! What happens when these men return stateside and the paranoia of daily bullet in the skull doom must be rechanneled into being a productive member of the community? There is a test the Marine Corps has to measure a man's capacity to destroy other human life before he is sent into the field. There is no such measure of extinction of this learned and very noxious behavior. I posed the case I had read of in the news of a group of Black Viet Nam veterans in Chicago, trained as the service's best in demolition and mass destruction and their growing frustration within the city at the apparent lack of jobs (or is it relUctant biting?). The gentlemen dismissed this to media sensationalism. Inevitably, the topic of massacres, My Lai as a case in point, came up. They admitted that these are not isolated incidents but insisted that the · participation of Commissioned Officers and non-Coms is rare. So what? ls that supposed to Jt!s..Monday·nights-aH..,nr.·- --..!-------·····-·-' transpose the blame away from the United States' government? To make matte.rs worse, something I never even dreamed of, company doctors, men trained to save human lives, must have been witness to ·each of these atrocities since each and every company has a doctor. Can such a schizophrenic doctor exist; one with a value judgment on the Worth of human life that interferes and allows such a disgusting, anti-Hippocra ti.c event to take place before the eyes of modern medicine? Even the most hawkish of the A.M.A.'s breed cannot be seriously callous to genocide. Can they? You snicker at my effort to be objective. However, this was a statement of facts as told to me by United States' government officials, men whose mission it is to recruit college graduates for a career in the Marine Corps. Are you a man? By their standards? Is masculinity measQred by the capacity to commit genocide in the name of patriotism? Freedom? CONCORD/ENSIS, Feb. 15, 1972 Page 3 · The Schenectady P.Y,E. Club will meet on Thursday night, February 17, at 7:30 p.m., in the P.Y.E. ·Office located in the basement of Silliman Hall. All members are urged to attend and any other interested people are also welcome. * * * * The Union Christian Fellewship wiH be distributing copies of Good News for Modern Man all day Thursday, February 17. Tables will be set up at several locations on campus, and there will be representatives available to talk with. The book is free, and aU members of the coll~ge community are urged to pick up a copy. * * * * Slides of Rennes, France, will be shown in the Library music room on Thursday evening at 8:00. Rennes, capitol of Brittany, is where this year's Fall Term in France will be located. There will also be a short meeting of the French Club. All students are invited, and are reminded once more that the meetings are in English. * * * * Anyone interested in working on the Freshman Record 1976, · contact either Don Foley at 370- 2185 or Penise Ruthenberg at 346-9220. Also, anyone who has taken or is intetested in taking pictQres for the Record, please get in touch!!! . * * * * Union College Hillel will sponsor a brunch this Sunday morning at II :45 a.m. in the Hale House Dining Room. Bagels, lox, orange juice and coffee will be served. Zvi Abbo, a professor at Albany State will speak about Israel. Hillel will also hold elections for next year's officers at this time: * * * * As a reminder, the Girling Skating Rink is open every Tuesday and Thursday nights from 7 to 10:30 p.m. and on S•mdays from 2 to 10 p.m. Admission is only 25¢. The rink may also be reserved for $10 an evening, by calling the center. * * * * The Idol is now accepting new submissions for its next issue. The present issue will be available at the end of this month. Any submissions may be placed in the Idol Mailbox at the Student Activities Office, All work will be considered. * * * * PYE recycling captains are reminded to place the . bound paper on the roadway on Friday at I p.m. for pickup. THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED AS A PUBLIC SERVICE E!Y THE PUBLISHER

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb .. 15.. 1'972 Hermes, Tom Hord; gives Trygaeus, Paul Delfin, a squeeze in PEACE, the Mountebanks' production which will be playing until Saturday night, Feb. 19. Direction, Spirit Produce ''Peace'' by MATTHEW SWARTZ Peaceful Theatrical Coexistence Under the typical \most ambitious production to date\ publicity, Peace opened last night and I must say that for once the performance approached its description. Bringing \the joint work of a major American composer (AI Carmines) and· the distinguished Greek-comic playwright Aristophanes,\ Peace is witty and works within the limits one must recognize to be inherent in such a production. The set has transformed the entrails of Nott Memorial into an ethereal, theater Within-a- cloud and the technical ·manipulation of the fighting augments the effect. As audience, we sit within the heaven in a new and inventive seating arrangement (unfortunately, none too comfortably). The clever use of a three tiered scaffold adds a Dantesque, multidimensional quality to Eliphalet's paradise, placing the title role,. as we·n as her demonic counterpart where only pigeons in the past dare to tread. to become Hermes, the god of eloquence, en several levels. His stage presence makes him ideal for the role and the soliloquy he delivers as the absent-minded professor lecturing on Greek antiquity is indisputably the evening's zenith. Miss Cheryl Brown's voice, both in her dialogue an,d her singing, is superb- and her carriage as Abundance effprtlessly creates her part as an intangible. Mr. Paul Delfin weaves the character of Trygaeus, the son of our own Uncle Sam, as the play has it, into a delightful tapestry . of pagan sensibility and middle American pubescent confusion. Miss Virginia Lyle is sullen 11nd sexy as Peace and makes a striking and effective contrast to the Mephistophelean war, Allen Levy. Climaxing 177 years of stage celibacy here, Miss Barbara McDonald and Mr. Bob Harders consummate the- number \You've Got Yourself a Bunch of Woman\ with vigor and clothed sensuality. Peace is as good a prodQetion as I have seen· here and is the end result of fine casting, creative acting and skillful direction. Hop on a cloud and buzz over because there's no reason fo-r supposing that no one will come to this giving of Peace. Argyle: The Second. Planet by PETE TORPEY Many millions of light years away from our Earth a small lost plan~t, about 10 kilometers in diameter, rotates aro1:1nd a tired old Sun which is the center of a Solar System · containing five planets. This planetoid, Argyle, the second planet frolli the Sun, is sparsely inhabited by a race of beings who are bothered little by their neighbors from the other four .planets in the System. Nor do they attempt, very often, to meddle in the \grand and intricately\ laid plans of the other la·rger planets. The Sometimes, their lives being too simple and calm, the beings of Argyle invent their own problems, They create social tensions between one another, complain about living conditions on their Planetoid, and denounce the bureaucracy of their government. Some .of these situations ~re the product of true injustices; while others, the product af unintentiona-l neglect. Most could have been talked about and r~solved quite easily if the Gylons were willing to truly communicate with each other. But, instead, they are busy making sure that others know of their grievances. Usually, however, no harm is done· with idle complaining, and the situations either lose popular interest and remain unchanged', or· quickly revert to a new more desireable state for alL It does the ·beings of Argyle good to have a con.unon cause to fight against once in a while, because it usually helps pass time. The Gylons would unite . under one banner and forget their search for \purp 0 se\ fer at least a while: their common ·~purpose\ being their cause. This varying ·calm and unrest takes the monotony aut of the lives of the beings of Argyle and lends a complexity to theit existence. The Gylons, although almost nene realize it, depend on this varying temper, for without it, their senses would be numbed to the daily routine of a boring existence. Such is the life of ·the average Gylon. \Gylons as th~y are called, are content to go abeut their own day-to\day affairs in the manner they have done aU of their lives: work a little so .that it may be said that there is a \purpose\ to life, and pass through the idle moments when one would be left to ponder this \purpose with fun and ''meani·ngful\ experiences so that one would not have to face the harsh reality that he, in fact, did not know ·what life really is. But, the Gylons are happy in theit own simple way. Freshmen To 1\tliss They do not have to preoccupy themselves with probleD:ls the larger planets have of producing enough food and shelter for the inhabitants of their worlds: Argyle has plenty of food for its meager population, and with t.he Gylons' steady state of population, new houses are rarely needed. With the beings of the larger planets constantly worrying about wars and economic troubles, the Gylons, on the other hand, have no gripes with anyboqy and know that somehow or other their economic Qeeds will be. worked out. History 183 - Africa in the 20th Century, wiD be given in the Spring' tenn · a~ students may enroll fp; it in the DQI'mal manner. The course will meet on Thu.-sday evenings, 6:45- lO:lS. lt wiD be taught by Professor Nicholas D. U. Onyewu, Professor ·Of Aftican and Afro-America.n Studies at • SUNY, Albany. Pr. Onyewu is a native qf · Nigeria who holds a Masters degree from Howard University and a Ph.D. in International Relations from American Uni\'ersity. C . · · · E· ·d··. D' 's .. · an· d .. F····. 's? .omp .· ... , . ..~ ... · I .. ·.· .• Co~tin~ed from Page 1 Dealing with the matter of advising. the Committee asserts that entering Freshmen should nat be required to decl.are a major field, and that Freshman advisors be chosen from a pool of volunteers. Other proposals involve greater student freedom for changing one's advisor, the creation of a group of student advisors . to assist Freshmen, and the formulation of a special Faculty Advisor's Manual. In the controve~ia.l field of gra4es, the Commit~e has proposed \that no grade 9f D or F be recqrded for any unsatisfactory work done during the Freshman year:\ ·Instead, students ;having lilisati.sfacU;iry grades will simply .. receive no credit, and there will be no notation on their tr8.nscript to indicate what had occurred. In support M this scheme of action, the Committee· notes that' many students are at present harmed by poor academic performance during Freshman ·year, often the result of the sometimes difficult transition . from ·high sch()ol In' the Report's Words; \It strikes us as a kind ()f verigeance to make permaneil.t unsatisfactory grades for Freshmen.\ The Conil1:J.ittee also recoD:litlends that the present grades for satisfactory work (A, .B, q be continued, rather than a pass-fail system. Several of these recommendations, especially those relating to grades and major requirements, have already been subjected to strong criticism by varying elements of the C¢llege community. A future article will deal with the minority report dissents and other objections to the Report's conclusions. CONCERT;_ '1 . . ' Ttie fifth subscription. series (;oncert will be presented by the Mbany Symphony Orchestra, on February 19, th~ Palace Theat·re, 8:30 ,p.in. iuliJJ~ -Hegyi w.ill conduct .. The program will include Anton Webern's Passacaglia for orchestra, Op. l. The Passacaglia was composed in 1908 for large orchestra. Robert Schumann's Symphony No. 3 in E flat major, op. 97, his \Rhenish\ symphony was completed in ·1850. The Third Symphony is actually the fourth; · and Schumann's last essay in the symphonic form. Without A Bugle, The Symphony No. 28 in C major, K. 200, was composed by .;. D Wolfgang Mo~art in 1773. The Without .If. rum final selection for the program is Silvestre Revueltas Ventanas · - composed in 1931 arid . first d 1 What Js J t.? performedf tM'n !9~2. Revugif·~ttads Three middle aged a u ts, was one o extco s most te · seeking the ole Ponce De Leon 'the sad confessions of their lives composers. Ventanas is his first Musically, the Mountebanks have agglomerated operatic farce, musical comedy and Hair- like .. rock into a stab at intel?iat!nff these many styles into one continuous flow of twehty~two numbers in thirty pages of script. The singing. both individual and chorus. fluctuates between good and poor with occassional discord scraping between members of duets. Mr. Gary Parks has done· a magnificent job as musical director, with praise due primarily to his smooth pianist, Mr. Peter Prunner. However, I must admit that as good as it was. I did not leave the theater humming any part of the score nor wiH I hurty downtown for the sound track. Is it a. case of the American Rel'o/ution catching up with us again? Who cares if one is, indeed, without a \bugle\ or \drum\? This is no 1776 enigma ... it is q 1970's plar \1,'J'itten by Robert Sugarlii<Jn. \fountain of youth,\ and two flow out Qfthem,. work for large orchestra. college kids, the likely oasis for Without A Buglet' Without A Student tickets ($l..SO) may be their much hoped for youth. The Drum; comes to Nott Memorial purchased a,t the Albany Editor's Note: Garr Parks' musicians also incl~ded Gary Lovett on drums. and Don Mirate on guitar, whose names were omittedfrom the program. The real success of the work lies ultimately with the direction Mr. Barry Smith had over his . cast. Each member impressed me as being spiritually involved during the entire performance. so that the players are not really acting, as such, but .enjoying each other's company on the stage. They appear to have a real understanding of how their fellows will respond to lines, gestures and facial expressions so that there is a mainstream of dialogue and little of the amateurish isolated ejaculation one becomes used to and almost learns to expect. Mr. Tom Hord transcends all difficulty of being a Greek god figure and manages Mr. Sugarman is no stranger to theatre. He's been through every acting, teaching, studying, and directing experience he could find in theatres from here to New York City. And through the years, he's written many plays of his. own. Recently Sugarman teamed up with former Albany State theatre major Judi Harris to organize a repertory touring ensemble. The group they formed, called Traveling Stage, will appear at Nott Memorial this Sunday nighl, February 20, at 8:00 P.M. Tickets are one dollar at the door. The actors in this company range in age and theatre. experience from students to local radio announcers. The play, whose name lured you into reading this article, is a contemporary dra.nta. Contemporary .. . meaning ... characters and real < :· .-4-' .five. match minds in a posh on February 20~ at 8:00 P.M. ... Symphony office in the D & H Montauk Point \Castle\ on the as performe(f by TRAVELING Building, Suite 26, or by beach. Grass and alcohol fl~w STAGE. te~~phoning 465-4155. into our characters freely while ________________ ~------------ PYE Will Show Film The Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club will initiate its environmental film series this Friday, Febtuary 18, with a showing of Ian McHarg's \Multiply and Subdue the Earth.\ The film wiii be shown Itt 8:00P.M. in the meeting room of the Schenectady County Library. Dr. McHarg, Union's Davidson Fellow for !970-7'1, is a fervent environmentalist concerned in designing with instead of against it. His intelligent .plea for · · plannipg to attain with 1 Nafttte:: 1 ' : ... ~ .• ~ np -a~hm~stoh charge. 1 ' • . ~ ,. .. .. /. .... ~. ('

..... ' ~ ... ' ·; ~·. (' /. » * .. DeJtr Lou, I was writing something for the blither column la~t night and as I sat staring off into space a couple of thoughts came to me that I thought might be of interest to .a few people on campus. This letter resulted. You know, it's a funny thing. As far back as I can recall a lot of people here have been doing quite a bit .of talking about something called apathy. Now while this note is not· really about apathy td like to seek your indulgence for a moment while I ramble. Just to be sure of mY terrain I checked our unabridged Random House and disc.overed a definition that seems to describe what we're talking about. According to Mr.· House, apathy is a lack of interest in or concern for things which others find: moving or exciting. Now I think I can honestly say that while I'm not really apathetic about apa~hy, I'm not terribly excited about it either. It just seems na,tutal to me now that some people are interested in some things a.D.d othet people are interested in other things and td be a damn fool if I thought I could teU somebody else what he should be interested -in. Within this conte.xt. I look on my job in the following way. I see my role as being that of a passionatelY interested and involved facilitator .. Within the frame work of student goverlll1lent ·I try to help people achieve· that which they want to achieve. This doesn't .necessarily mean that I sit on my duff down at Park. Pla~ waiting _for people to kfi.oc.~ :~ui my. door asking for help. Nor does it m!!an that I suppress my own wants and desires in favor of. those of others; or even ~that I can · help everyone who askS;. I am sur~lY. just as : opiniomited as · ·fhe next, fellow and if I feel something 1'8 good I'll fight for it and if it's bad I'll try to get rid of it. What all this daes mean. however~ iS that I'm usually At Skidmore almost as interested in why a fellow is saying what he's. saying as 'in what he's saying. This certainly doesn't make me a paragon of virtue but it does indicate that I realize that the next fellow in the door may have a better way of solving a problem than the fellow who just left. rd he foolish to dismiss the second fellow out of hand. It would mean I'd pr.oba~ly miss out on a lot of good ideas. At the very least I'd fumble the chance of being able to convince the second fellow that some of my ideas might he just as good ot better than his. With all. that out of the Way I can get into the meat of the tna,tter. Some of us believe that tliere is a great deal of interest in, but very few hard facts known about, · our current tenure procedures. In an attempt to make more facts available we've set up an open forum on tenure Thrusday evening, February 17 at 7 P.M. in HU 115. If you are interested in how the tenure process works at Union and interested in hearing a,bout some ·possible alternatives to the current situation, you might like to drop by. The panel will consist of Prof. Bick, Prof. Enteman, Dean Lichterman and Prof. Wells. I understand that all of these people have some different ideas ~on the tenure issue and possible alternatives to ' such things as 60%, unionization, up or .out in seven years and long term ·contracts as an alternative to 'tentire. Between the four of them they ought to be able to s~pply at least four diff'Crent answers to almost any question you ·~!Sh~ have. What pe()ple do from there on in is up to thetn. Before I dose; Lou, I'd like to ask a small favor, Because a lot of people; w.ho might be interested in tenure. won't be i~teiested in wading through all this I .think they, might apprepiate it if~~· you could slip the approJ;~tiate. informatit:,n about this follum .into a slot somewhere On <>net Qf the O~Jler pages. · Sin(:e.-ely: David S. Robbins hesicJ,nt of the Student Body LAFAYETTE Radio • Electronics associate stores of SEIDEN SOUND, INC. 141 Erie Blvd. ./ wkb ·. Tel, 346-6111 . 8 . t . . Scb'~·• N.Y. US IS . . SKIDMORE & UNION Sl~9 P.S.- trips to Puerto Rieo, Nassau alld up & Acapuleo available CONCORDIENSIS. Feb. 15., 1972 Page 5 Goals And Objectives ... . What Do You Think? Continued from Page. I sdholarship funds and dtfferent priorities of allocation for them, closer liaison with community colleges, a policy of continuous admission, indiff~ence to geographical provenienCe. Curd4:ular · Design: Goa,l #1 suggests either some sort of <:listribution req,uirement or permission for majors in some fields to do most of their work in those fields since an objective would have to be to keep each .program viable by seeing t.o it that enough .students not only began but stayed in it. (It may be that Goal #2, if it were rea~hed, would automatically take care of that, that is, the diffusi<>n of students in transdisciplinary programs. might produce enrollment sufficient to sustain all four divisional areas.) For Goal #2 it might be necessary to do more than invent new arrangements;.. quite possibly there would have to be expansion and use Of specialized programs in various consortium colleges, credit for unpaid work periods in government etc., courses made larger amounts of tutorial and perceptual instruction, less of lecture. Phy$ical Plant: Ooal #2. might increase demand for large lecture rooms (of which we have only three at present). Goal #3 niandates an extension. to the Library and might make necessary an increase in the number of small laboratories. Goal #4 suggests need for a round-the-clock janitorial force. Dormitory press~re might diminish. Rooms would have to be developed for frequent. or almost continuous audio-visual transmission. Staffing: Goal #I calls for. maintaining qualitative and quantitative parity among divisions. Goal #2 implies development of a p<Jol of occasional and part-time faculty for t>he day pr()gram (it already is used in the evening .program). Goals #3, 4, 5 all point to the need for new staff for administering programs or for serving in a combined administration-inst ructiona:l-a<l- vising role.. Large-scale use of audio~visual technology implies a staff of technical people - for research, graphics, filming, editing, etc. Budget: Speaking generaJly, the objective for all goals would have to be to re-allocate expenditures in the operating budget since the likelihood of increased revenues is small. So the objectives would relate to putting more money into scholarships, more into non- traditional types of instructors (or, at least, of instruction), some ~ we spend almost none now - into curriculum development, more into administration at middle staff levels. Capital budgets, beyond those tor essential repairs, would go largely to equipment with heaviest expenditure, perhaps, for communication technology (closed circuit TV, computer consoles, vidio-tape machines. etc.). ·for team-teaching. Goal #4 may make advisable year-round scheduling .and necessary a cooperative program in engineering (six mqlith!! in college, six months at work). To reach Goal #5 tht( curriculum would probably have to include remedial courses, courses both practical ~nd theoretical which we do .not now offer, very possibly a re-structuting of teaching ap~ointments to provide Peter Pause Restau·rant 535 Not I Street ·THE UNilED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION , a ,specialized agency of the United Nationslfedlcated to peace $&value $1.50value $5value --------- -$\!:BCr · and . THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY a non-profit .. nQn-political organiZation dedicated to helping students to help themselves offer .STUDYA8ROAD • New 19th Edition • . Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish· • Paris~.. France, 1972 • 644 t\'ages The mQst complete scholarship directory in the world lists more than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO APP~ Y! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by financial need! VACATION--sTUDY ABROAD • Each'_copyJs trilingual in English, French and Spanish More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportioh is yqung Americans! With the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION .STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, seminars, surnmer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults pJanning to undertake study or training abroad during their vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries! STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered: • Scholarship information service, Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! • Travel service. C()ntinued from Page l segregation, politics, coUrtesy. youth, and fried chick~n. He also talked about his appearance on the Djck, Cave,tt Show wjth Truman Capote and ex~football star Jim Brown. Maddox's explanation of why he abruptly stood up and walked off the Cavett program pr.ompted an excellent imitation of Trum;;m Capote by Georgia's Lieutenant Governor. After about twenty minutes, Maddox left the reception when it becatne apparent that the exchanges between the audience and himself wete of an increasingly hostile nature. CONTACT LOUISE AT SKIDS · . ~84-SOO ,;:,. ext. 505, or 587-1571 all for Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! • Ref~rence Service. Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses. etc . frequently using primary sources available only in the Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished assignment' since that would deprive 111e student of valuable educational experience and def13at the very purpose for writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide background information .and bibliogra,phies which rank with. such tools as t~e Colle~e Outline S~ries and t:ncyclo- paedla reference serv1ces available only With expens1ve sets. Limit of one draft at small additional charge. per semester per student in good standing. We cannot answer any question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, lawyer, architec~. engineer. or other licensed .practitioner, nor can we adv1se concerning your financial ihvestments. Neither cati we undertake. market research or surveys or provide hOme study courses . FOR LIQUOR .~ .WINE . ·rry. JAK~E liPSTEIN'S 464 State S'reet FR 4-18$8 LUIG.I'S R·ES·T·A.URANT • SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American F ooc1 I 1'25 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 ! :- , ~. - :_ -· ~- :· 1. ::-)1; :~ '-~-. ~- :t: t ., \ .\ ~ ·. \ ' r. ~- '· \' ,' •.. 1 ~ ~ ·~ ~ ~ ;,l~~:~~i,~~1~~;~,~~s::::t~~~.~mri·~-~.·;;,:·::.:¥i~it:,,qur; p~t~tail: ac.~: ?• ·.· ,:\! ;,., . :' .. :.··~, .. i,. . . ' , ... ::: !' ,. ,. ·~ ,>,,: ':'.' ;': ·. ,. :· ·:; .·.:: :: :' '·.•· :·.. . • . only $6 - -=--==-~ \Your reference service saved me much valuable time which I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 As and 1 B.\ eN, Ann Arbor, Mich '7hs Vantage Point\ is a book put together by 5 ghost writers and edited by LBJ. Your reference service is almost like my own personal ghost writer. \ LC, Gainesville, Fla. \the 3 reference books of which every student • needs personal copies lsare Study Abroad. a good dictionary and 111 thesaurus. I got a $10,000 4-ve:at ~ho/flf1ihip· frQ.m · · , ~~~dy 1tbt;oad. \ · ; . · ~~ AR, liefkeley, C./if, ,,. .----------------~--~---- : Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 : 1 Friendship Station, Washington, O.C. 20016 1 .• Gentl~men: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, : : Vacat1on Study Abroad and annual dues. 1 1 Name I :~~~ : 1 City, State . . _ Zip . . . I •--------------~~-------~ '.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 15, I972 It's Martin's Move Cagers Beat Stevens Continued from Page 8 that Howie. Benedict, or any other wrestler in the league who qualifies, is allowed to participate in post .. season competition while the Union basketball team may not. Skiers and tennis players are eleigible for NCAA titles, yet baseball and soccer squads are not pe·rmitted the chance to compete by NESCAC. . The way it stands now, one can only agree with Union · ba~ketball coach Gary Walters, :t_h-at the league's play-off regulations are an assault on teamwork. Individual athletes are permitted to enter post-season tournaments but sports teal]ls, which requi·re the same amount of practice and dedication, may not (with the exception of ice ·hockey). .. : I n p r i nc i pIe, Union's participation in NESCAC is sound enough, as the conference is essentially a grouping of eleven colleges, of almost identical educational and instit uti·onal philosophies, into an athletic alliance similar to that of the Ivy League. However, if it is necessary to sacrifice autonomy in order to enjoy whatever benefits the league can bestow, is NESCAC really what Union wants? More is at stake here than just a play-off berth. The question is, rather, is .Union going to retain the right to run its own athletic program or let the league run it? What possible adverse effect could Union's participation in the NCAA tournament have oA the league? None whatsoever. The opportunity to present this case to NESCAC is now. The issue is not closed, it is wide open and hegging to be acted upon by President Martin. It's Martin's Move Without any further hesitat~on, Martin should notify the NCAA that Union would be happy to accept a hid to its basketball tournament. After that, he should petition the N ESC AC executive committee for a chance to explain exactly why Union has decided to ignore the league prohibition. 1\s the Union hasketball team I' pr;tcti~ing for the rla)·tlfh. th<..' SWIMMING Continued from Page 7 teams ai1d spectators. l'nion matched the Rochester swimmers lap for lap. Hov.evcr Yellow jacket Bruce Adams gave a hurst M speed on the last lap to inch out Dutchman Tom Hough by less than a foot. Rochester won the event by pacing a 3:38.6, only four-tenths of a second faster than Union (3:39.0). Union traveled again Saturday to distant R.I.T. for the second meet of the series begun last year. Although Union was handed. 64- 4g loss ( 63-44 l:tst year). the Garnet saw some fine performances by Co-captain Tom Klinkow, sporting a 12:38.7 in the 1000-yard freestyle. Fellow co-captain Tom Hough showed a fast 2:00.8 in the 200-yard freestyle. Diver Bob Field upset RIT diver Shepanski in he required diving competition. Shepanski was undefeated in all his meets prior to Field's I 0-point win (132.15 to 122.05). The 400- fre.: relay squad of Mitch Weisburgh, Mark Shulman, Tom Klinkow and Tom Hough recovered from its loss Friday to inch out a RIT entry. 3:36.8 to 3:37.0. The remainder of the tneets for the season will be away. February 16th, the Mermen face the University of Ve1mont, who won 76-37 last year, February 26th, the Garnet swim Hamilton, one of the toughest teams in the Northeast. ( : ~ ~ ~ 'f.. '( 0 l ' .~ •••. .. league can make one of two choices; either it can reconsider its earlier decision and let Union do as it wishes, or it can move to have Union kicked out of the conference. If the latter course is taken, the loss to Union would be minor. As an equal• partner in the eleven president board of directors, President Martin is the only person on this campus who has the prestige to wage the fight for Unian's right to a play-off berth. As president of this college, it is Martin's duty to take every step available to him to protect the best interests of Union College. And there can be no question that accepting an NCAA play-off bid is in this college's best interests. To deny the Union basketball team the chance to participate Would be to deny the Union student body, let alone . the faculty and alumni, the chance to really be proud of their college. There is a feeling of enthusiasm on this campus, for this ballclub, that deserves better. And both the team and the students deserve a president who is willing to fight for them. If President Martin is really upset, the time to prove it is right now. Continued from Page 8 the team the go ahead to play a one-two~two zone, and it did the job. With Tedisco pressuring the guards out front, and dropping on to Cress when he came to the post, Stevens was forced to go to the corners. There, Carmody and Doyle proved relentless, and either forced a Stevens' turnover, or tied the Stute:net'l up. Slowly the Garnet leac,i increased until it hovered in the low teens when Doyle forced Cress out of the game via five personal fouls. The Garnet held on for a 79-69 win. TRACK Continued from Page 7 relay. The Garnet record now stands at 4-l, with three dual meets remammg. They have an excellent chance to win the state meet which will be held at Union ~his year, and high hopes in the Cortland Invitational and Union Invitational meets. Doyle was once again \Johnny' Union hft ~~ 21 of 28, for 75%, on the spot\ from the line, ·while the St11temen could only converting ten charity · tosses. can nine of 19; tor a .poor 47%. Doyle finished with 20 points Union was outpercentaged from and 13 rebounds,. the latter the field 45% to 42%. earning him Garnet team honors. Union, now 15~2, and. riding an Tedisco canned nine field l1 game win streak, brings its goals and six free throws for a chances for a twenty win season total of 24 points, while the on the line at Amherst tonight. remaining scorers chipped in a The Dutchmen were unable to balanced 15 (Walker}, 12 (for .practice for the game until late Carmody), and eight (for Bacher). Monday night due to a power The big Garnet advantage proble~. came at the foul line, where Nusbaum's \Outfitters to Men and Young Men\ . . . 441-4.51 STATE ST. SCH.ENECTADY We're trying to fix it, but we need your help. The cities are in trouble. You know it. And we know it. You'd like to do something about it, but at the same time you're thinking about a career in business. Why not do both? Sure, we invest lots of money every year in American business. But we're making other kinds of investments, too. In people. With millions of dollars we direct into the fabric of American life. t- .. ' '\ ' This money helps rebuild cities that are falling apart. Creates jobs for people who need them.lmproves and expands hospitals and clinics. And gives young people a decent shot at the education they missed. You can be part of it. In a career with a company that believes investment in people fs as important as investment inco.rporations. ~hus. . '1'~\~~udential we offer opportunities .1·fn marketing management, \' investments, applied computer technology, sales accounting, actuarial, and others. As well as responsibility and challenge in a company that's committed to social involvement. A Prudential representative willbe visiting your campus soon. Check with your Placement Office for the exact date, and make arrangements to talk to him. An equa·l opportunity employer Pmdenf1al '~ t l I ,1 I . . '\'' .... 'I <} ' .. r tl s: c h h p t< a ir ill aJ ac pc C<

Page 6 CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 15. 1972 It.' s Martin's Move Cagers Beat Stevens Continued from Page 8 that Howie Benedict, or any other wrestler in the league who qualifies, is allowed to participate in post-season competition while the Union basketball team may not. Skiers and tennis players an? eleigible for \:CAA titles, yet baseball and soccer squads are not permitted the chance to compete by NESCAC. . The way it stands now, one can only agree with Union bas-ket ball coach Gary Walters, ·th·a t the league's play-off regulations are an assault on teamwork. Individual athletes are permitted to enter post-season tournaments but sports teams. which require the same amount of practice and dedication, may not (with the exception of ice hockey). l n p r inc i p l e, U n io n' s participation in NESCAC is sound enough. as the conference is essentially a grouping of eleven colleges, of almost identical educational and instil u tiona I philosophies. into an athletic alliance similar to that of the Ivy League. However. if it is nece~sary to sacrifice autonomy in order to enjoy whatever benefits the league can bestow. is :'>JESCAC really what Union wants'! More is at o.take here than just a play-off herth. The question is, rather. Is l 1 nion going to retain the nght to run its o\\n athletic program or let the league run it'! \\'hat po..,,ihlt' adiL'r~t.· dh:l·t LlHtld ! Ilion·~ participation in the \('At\ tournament ha\e on the league'.' :\one whatsoever. I ht.· opportunity to present this Cbl In \ fSCAC j, now. rhe 1''-'•t' j, DOt cln ... ed. II I'> 1\ idt.• oren .tnd lwggin!! to he acted upon h1 l'rt·.,ident \:I art 111. It's :\-I art in's !\1 me \\'ithnut an;. further he~ItatHHJ. \vlartin ~hould notlly the \:C\:\ that l'n1on \\ould he harr~ to accept a hid to ih ha ... J..cth:tll townament. After that. he -.hould pl:!Ition the :\ FS('.\(' t'\L'L'l!IIIc c<lfliilli!tet.· lor a t.·haih:e Iot·\pbtn L'\actl\ 1\ll\ !'n1on ha ... dt·.:IJcd to i)!tl!He the lea!!llt' prolll htt I<lll. \, Jf:L• 1 lll•l!l h;t,kt·tb;~Jj ft';!l!l ' 1'1 .It !r-... i r 1 ~· '1 1 1 'f1 !.: ~' 1 ,t \ •II '. I }l_ · · ·':. ,trll! \-t 1 L'Lt.n.. . ... t Tlll H1 fl1.t!(t11,.'d !:-: r·· f 1 1.,.,1~,.'...,;~.:·: \''· 11ll1Jl.' f' i.tp I,,, . T li.'l\c ·. ·! ~ ·II<> II ·.It·~,·: Br llt'L' \d,tllh c:.t \ , . .t t'•.l' '>I (lf \r't.t'd Pfl rhc L.t ... t :~1p hl inch ''l.I I )IIJt'fllll,!ll I om Ht'll.l!h rv, It'\ ltlan .1 :nllt. Rocht',IL'r 11nn Iht· l., L'nt h1 p;t.:Ing .1 3 .•x n. nnl\ l<•lii -lt'nt h-. nt ,1 '''nllld l<l'-k'r 111.1!1 l llltlll ( 3 '~ ()), l fli<Hl tr;neled agam Saturday l<' ,Ji,tant R.l.l. tor the second ''1t'c't <ll the \L'rie~ hegun la~t \ear \lt!JOll!!h [ T11Ul1 \\a~ handed. 04- .j.('\ Jo..,~ tt<~-44 1<.1~! ~L'ar). thl' Ciarnt:t sal\ som~ tine pntormann:s hy Cn-captai n lorn Klinko\\, sportmg a l2:J~.; In the 1000-~ard ln:c,t\IL'. h:llo\\ ,·o-captain rom Hough 'hnwed a fa.._t .2:00.X m the 200-~ ard trceqj le. lln.cr Boh held up't't Rll di1er Shcpanski 111 he required di\ing competition. Shepanski v.as undefeated in all hi'> meets prior to held\ I 0-poin t \\in (IJ2.15 to 122.05). The 400- frr.~ relay squad of M Ikh Wcishurgh. Mark Shulman. Tom Klinko\\ and Tom Hough rccO\ered from ih loss f-riday to inch out a RIT entr~· . .l3t1.X to J:no. Ihe remainder of the meets for the season will he away. February 16th. the Mermen face the University of Vermont. who won 76-3 7 last year. February 26th. the Garnet swim H ami !ton. one of the toughest teams in the Northeast. league can make one of two choices; either it can reconsider its earlier decision and let Union do as i,t wishes, or it can move to have Union kicked out of the conference. If the latter course is taken. the loss to Union would be minor. As an equal· partner in the eleven president board of directors, President MartiH is the only person on this campus who has the prestige to wage the fight for Union's right to a play-off berth. As president of this college. it is Martin's duty to take every step available to him to protect the best interests of Union College. And there can be no question that accepting an NCAA play-off bid is in this college's best interests. To deny the Union basketball team the chance to participate would be to deny the Union student body, let alone the faculty and alumni, the chance to really be proud of their college. There is a feeling of enthusiasm on this campus, for this ballclub, that deserves better. And both the team and the students deserve a president who is willing to fight for them. If President Martin is really upset, the time to prove it is right now. Continued from Page 8 the team the go ahead to play a one-two-two zone, and it did the job. With Tedisco pressuring the g1:1ards out front, and dropping Ol'l to Cress when he came to the post, Stevens was forced to go to the corners. There, Carmody and Doyle proved relentless, and either forced a Stevens' turnover. or tied the Stute:nen up. Slowly the Garnet lead increased until it hovered in the low teens when Doyle forced Cress out of the game via five personal fouls. The Garnet held on for a 79-69 win. TRACK Continued from Page 7 relay. The Garnet record now stands at 4-I. with three dual meets rematmng. They have an excellent chance to win the state meet which will be held at Union this year, and high hopes in the Cortland Invitational and Union Invitational meets. Doyle was once again \Johnny on the spot\ from the line, converting ten charity tosses. Doyle finished with 20 points and 13 rebounds, the latter earning him Garnet team honors. Tedisco canned nine field goals and six free throws for a total of 24 points, while the remaining scorers chipped in a balanced 15 (Walker), 12 (for Carmody), and eight (£or Bacher). The big Garnet advantage came at the foul line, where Union hit on 21 of 28, for 75%, while the Sb1temen could only can nine of 19, tor a poor 47%. Union was outpercentaged from the field 45% to 42%. Union, now 15-2, and riding an 11 game win streak, brings its chances for a twenty win season on the line at Amherst tonight. The Dutchmen were u.nable to practice for the game until late Monday night due to a power problem. Nusbaum's ''Outfitters to Men and Young Men\ 1147-451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY We're trying to fix it, but we need your help. The cities are in trouble. You know It. And we know it. You'd like to do something about it. but at the same time you're thinking about a career in business Why not do both? Sure. we invest lots of money every year in American business. But we're making other kinds-of investments, too. In people. With mill ions of dollars we direct into the fabric of American life. This money helps rebuild cities that are falling apart. Creates jobs for people who need them.lmproves and expands hospitals and clinics. And gives young people a decent shot at the education they missed. You can be part of it. In a career wrth a company that believes investment in people IS as tmportant as investment in corporations. WP'th us. lr'r,. AfPrudential we offer opportunities 'fn marketing management. ~ investments. applied computer technology, sales accounting, actuarial, and others. As well as responsibility and challenge in a company that's committed to social involvement. A Prudential representative will be visiting your campus soon. Check w1th your Placement Office for the exact date, and make arrangements to talk to him. An equal opportunttv employer Pmdenf1al .. ~~' . ~ t) \ .. ·\- ' n. • ... , I . . .\ I i I ' : i I I .I ;. I ~ Jr. ... /jj il '!\ Ql ~ ~ s a ~ II s tl n n a \' aJ e; Sl In e( tt s~ cc h( h< pr to ar irr in ar ad pe co

.... ' CONCORDJENS/S, Feb. 15, 1972 Page 7 For The Best? WINNING WRESTLERS by MARK MINDEL Rah, Ratt for good 'ole Union's great academic standing Union. We've finally got a will draw in pl€:nty of athletes. winner, with this basketball Especially with this top-notch team. Yes sir, five games to go league. No sub-frosh wants to go and all they have to do is win to a school where every sports four to turn in the best record in team is always headed off to the 72-year history -of the sport at some tournament and playing all our great ivy covered campus. those eXtfl! games. And can you And isn't it wonderful that we imagine any freshmen ballplayer can stop associating with those turning down the glory of being lowly schools like Alfred, the best performer on a freshmen Hobart, Rochester, St. Lawrence unit for the tough chance of and those distasteful state playing every once in a while oil schools and start mbbing elbows 1 • the varsity squad? with the elite and glorious Anyway, none of Union's Bowdein, Bates, Wesleyan, coaches would want to pressure a Williams, and the likes? .frosh into playing varsity. He'd Just think, in a few years they 1 probably choke under pressure. will be calling us the \small . Yes, Dr. Martin you've done it Ivies\ my, won't our alumni be~ again. I never thought you could impressed. Thin-k of the money improve on that great move last that will pout in.. yea,r, when you made those social I suppose it is a bit of a shame (or was it . socialist?) committee that the boys won't be allowed to people. realize how foolish they play a few more games after the were in trying to repeat another season is over, in a get\'together • Woodstock. It even rained on the with those r:ough ballplayers '· proposed day of the proposed from that phys-ed. school; (is it event, as you pointed out was a Brockriver?, no Brockport I definite possibility. think), no matter, we wouldn't But this time you've outdone want anyone hurt. And haven't yourself. Not only have you you heard the rumor that their wisely kept the basketball team star player can't even read or out of trouble and put them back write? on the road to academic success Both Al Calabro~ top photo, and Howie Benedict, pictwed below, were douhle winners this weekend. Alan is now 6-2, while Howie, whose clutch pin won the : Amherst match remains unbeaten at 14-0. Besides, I doubt any of the but you've made everyone happy player!!· would want to miss out by keeping us in this aristocratic on classwork with only a few conference. weeks before finals. What's more Don't worry about Jim important; playing in a little Tedisco missing out on perhaps tournament or getting an his last and best chance to prove education? Pshaw, think of the his ability to a crowd outside of studying time lost in traveling Schenectady; it's kind of nice to alone! have an all-american that only And there are so many more we know about. benefits from being in our cozy And those 800 fans that signed little league. We can finally leave the petition to withdraw from the those P<Jor young high school league, if necessary, to play in the playe:r:s ;done. They get so tournament? I wouldn't expect confused when so many coaches any trouble from them; come to talk to them. I'm sure remember students are apathetic. Student Athletes ForiD New Action Co01ntittee · In early January a small group of Union Students joined to form the \Students' Athletic Action Committee\. They are concerned · over the appart:nt attitude of the administration that athletics is an unimportant, even detrimental aspect of the educational process, and should he reduced to a minimal role. investment would save the school a great deal of money in several ways, and would quickly \pay for itself'. In fact, the proposed addition would, in the long run, represent a profit for the school. Runners Split They are convinced that aU of Union's students deserve much better than they have been getting. The declared purpose of the students' committee is to improve and add .to the existing athletic .programs at Union on all levels - interscholastic, intramural, and simple recreational activities. The committee members hope to he.lp find out and point out the needs and wishes of a 2,000 plus member community, regarding athletic facilities and programs. Areas of general concern which have come under scrutiny are the lack of availability of existing facilities such · as the swimming pool, and the general inadequacy of the . existing equipment and facilities. It simply does· not make sense that a school of Union's size should have only one .paddle ball court or only eight basketball hoops on the entire campus. For the present the committee has limited itself to two major priorities. The first is to attempt to get the necessary approvals and funds for a major improvement of the fieldhouse, including installment of an artificially surfaced floor, several additional basketball hoops, and perhaps roll-away bleachers. The committt:e feels that such an The other major objective is to determine the best ways to improve the situation in which Union now finds itself regarding the N.E.S.C.A.C. These students have advanced from the 'just complaining' stage and are ready to get to work. If you are willing to help out, or if you have any ideas which should be con~idered, contact Bob Hesse at 370-3471; Rick Jaszczak at 346- 9730 or 377-4651; Sandy Wilder at Delta Phi, 346-9752; or Jim Smith and Jim Johnson at 221 West, 346-9369. Last Friday nigh.t at the fieldhouse, the Garm~t trackmen split a three way decision with Lehigh University and RPI, ending their hopes for an undefeated season. The Dutchmen scored 46 points, to Lehigh's 64, and 16 for RPI. Exactly half of Union's scoring came in the four field events. Bill Mowery, one of 'New Jersey's finest, took second in the shot put With a heave of 48' 5\. Freshmen long jumpers John DeStefano and Pete Walrath captured first and second Big Winter Weekend byJIM SMITH The Interfraternity Council has announced its plans for the big Winter Weekend coming up, February 25-27. The main event for the evening will be a formal ball,. to be held on Saturday night at the Girling Center. Music for the ball will provided by the Star-Spangled Band, of area renown. Most of the houses are planning separate entertainment events prior to the ball, and in the case of at least one frat, Phi Delta Theta, a champagne breakfast ·is also planned, for after the ball. In addition to the evening's festivities, the IFC wiU conduct a wrecking contest on Saturday afternoon. The purpose of this_ contest is to provide an outlet for people's pent-up frustr-ations. The object of their assault will be someorte's unwanted (hopefully) auto. Each participant will be given an allotment of time and a sledgehammer; and left to do what he will. Winter Weekend chairman Rick Jaszczak says, in the famous words of Mr. Kite, \A splendid time is guaranteed for aU;\ respectively in their specialty, while Baron Van Ricks and the Floater duplicated the feat in the pole vault. Co-captain Mike Rich cleared 6' 2\ in the high jump, but he had to settle for second, as RPI's freshman jumper eclipsed the Engineers' school record with a jump of 6'7\. That however is where Union's domination ended. Although the Garnet turned in several good performances, Lehigh's strength and depth, especially in the longer distances, brought them the victory, Without the services of two-miler Seamus Johnson who had been sick during the week, Union had to settle for one point in that event, on a fourth place performance by Jim Smith. Lehigh, the IC4A Cross-Country champions, took first, second, and third in both the mile and two-mile, with Union's Dave Rice capturing the fourth spot in the mile. The best track event for the Dutchmen was the 50 yard dash, where soph sprinter Dave White leaned all the way under the tape from ten yards out, to take the event. Dave was followed very closely by Skip Jamieson. Chunky co-captain Rick Jaszczak came through in a big way, as usual, winning the 600 yard dash in l :13, and coming back to lead the victorious mile Continued on Page (i Mermen Lose Three More by PAUL CONNORS The Garnet swim squad bowed to three rival teams this week, each handing the Dutchmen distinct losses, with the season figures now showing 2-6. Earlier in the week the Mermen traveled to R.P.I. only to be stomped 76-37 by the 7 and 2 Engineers. Wednesday the Garnet returned home to host the University of Rochester's 2 and 4 squad. U of R Coach Bill Boomer's team gave the Union squad many close finishes, and held Coach McMurray's swimmers to first's in only four events. The times of the Mermen were slower than the usual paces turned in, with the exception of co-captain Tom Hough, who turned in a 12:40.3 in the 1,000- yard freestyle, his best time in the event. The Yellow Jackets led the entire meet before handing the Mermen a 6249 loss. Rochester won last year 63-45, but Union leads the series with 23 wim and 18 losses in the oldest swim rivalry begun in 1923. The tension mounted at the end of the optional diving competition, with the score 55-49. Union could have won by one point if the relay squad could have cropped first honors in the 400- yard free relay. Spirit and enthusiasm flowed from both Continued on Page 6

~~-· ( .. ( ,. I ...... ~ I I I I ( j ,. I .. . CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 15, 1972 Page 7 For The Best? WINNING WRESTLERS by MARK MINDEL Rah, Rah for good 'ole Union's great academic standing Union. We've finally got a wiH draw in plenty of athletes. winner, with this basketball Especially with this top-notch team. Yes sir, five games to go league. No sub-frosh wants to go and all they have to do is win to a school where every sports four to turn in the best record in team is always headed off to the 72-year history of the sport at some tournament and playing all our great ivy covered campus. those extra games. And can you And isn't it wonderful that we imagine any freshmen baUplayer can stop associating with those turning down the glory ef being lowly schools !'ike Alfred, the best performer on a freshmen Hobart, Rochester, St. Lawrence unit for the tough chance of and those distasteful state playing every once in a whi<le on schools and start rubbing elbows 1 . the varsity squad? with the elite and glorious Anyway, none of Union's Bowdein, Bates, Wesleyan, coaches would want to pvessure a Williams, and the likes? frosh into playing varsity. He'd Just think, in a few years they 'probably choke under pressure. will be calling us the \small Yes, Dr. Martin you've done it Ivies\ my, won't our alumni be~ again. I never thought you could impressed. Think of the money · improve on that great move last that will pour in. year, when you made those social I suppose it is a bit of a shame (or was it socialist?) corn.mittee that the boys won't be allowed to people realize how foolish they play a few more games after the were in trying to repeat another season is over, in a get-together, Woodstock. It even rained on the with those rough ballplayers proposed day of the pr()posed from that phys-ed. school, (is it event, as you pointed out was a Brockriver?, no Brockport I definite possibility. think), no matter, we wouldn't But this time you've outdone want anyone hurt. And haven't yourself. Not only have you yol:l heard the rumor that their wisely kept the basketball team star player can't even read or out of trouble and put them. back write? on the road to academic success Both Al Calabro, top photo, and Howie Benedict, pictured below, were double winners this weekend. A Jan is now 6-2, while Howie, whose clutch pin won the Amherst match remains unbeaten at 14-0. Besides, I doubt any of the but you've made everyone happy players would want to miss out by keeping us in this aristocratic on classwork with only a few conference. weeks before finals. What's more Don't worry a bout J irn important, playing in a little Tedisco missing out on perhaps tournament or getting an his last and best chance to prove education? Pshaw, think of the his ability to a crowd outside of studying time lost in traveling Schenectady; it's kind of nice to alone! have an all-american that only And there are so many more we know about. benefits from being in our cozy And those 800 fans that signed little league. We can finally leave the petition to withdraw from the those poor young high school league, if necessary, to play in the players alone. They get so tournament? I wouldn't expect confused when so many coaches any trouble from them; come to talk to them. I'm sure remember students are apathetic. Student Athletes Forn1 New Action CoDIDiittee In early January a small group of Union Students joined to form the \Students' Athletic Action Committee\. They are concerned over the apparent attitude of the administration that athletics is an unimportant, even detrimental aspect of the educational process, and should be reduced to a minimal role. investment would save the scllool a great deal of money in several ways, and would quickly \pay for itself'. In fact, the proposed addition would, in the long run, represent a profit for the school. Runners Split They are convinced that all of Union's students deserve much better than they have been getting. The declared purpose of the students' committee is to improve and add to the existing athletic programs at Union on all levels - interscholastic, intramural, and simple recreational activities. The cor.1mittee members hope to help find out and point out the needs and wishes of a 2,000 plus member community, regarding athletic facilities and programs. Areas of general concern which have come under scrutiny are the lack of availability of existing facilities such as the swimming pool, and the general inadequacy of the existing equipment and facilities. It simply does not make sense that a school of Union's size should have only one paddle ball court or only eight basketball hoops on the entire campus. For the present the committee has limited itself to two major priorities. The first is to attempt to get the necessary approvals and funds for a major improvement of the fieldhouse, including installment of an artificially surfaced floor, several additional basketball hoops, and perhaps roll-away bleachers. The committee feels that such an The other major objective is to determine the best ways to improve the situation in which Union now finds itself regarding the N.E.S.C'.A.C These students have advanced from the 'just complaining~ stage and are ready to get to work. If you are willing to help out, <>r if you have any ideas which sh()u]d be cow idered, contact Bob Hesse at 370-147I; Rick Jaszczak at 346- 9730 or 377-465I; Sandy Wil<ler at Delta Phi, 346-9752; or Jim Smith and Jim Johnson at 22I West. 346-9369. Last Friday night at the fieldhouse, the Garnet trackmen split a three way decision with Lehigh University and RPI. ending their hopes for an undefeated season. The Dutchmen scored 46 points. to Lehigh's 64, and 16 for RPI. Exactly half of Union's scoring came in the four field events. Bill Mowery, one of' New Jersey's finest, took second in the shot put with a heave of 48' 5\. Freshmen long jumpers John DeStefano and Pete Walrath captured first and second Big Winter Weekend by JIM SMITH The Interfraternity Coundl has announced its plans for the big Winter Weekend coming up, February 25-27. The main event for the evening will be a formal ball, to be held on Saturday night at the Girling Center. Music for the ball will pmvided by the Star-Spangled Band, of area renown. Most of the houses are planning separate entertainment events prior to the ball, and in the case of at least one frat, Phi Delta Theta, a champagne breakfast is also planned. for after the ball. In addition to the evening's festivities, the IFC will conduct a wrecking contest on Saturday afternoon. The purpose of this contest is to provide an outlet for people's pent-up frustrations. The object of their assault will be someone's unwanted (hopefully) auto. Each participant will be given an allotment of time and a sledgehammer, and left to do what he will. Winter Weekend chairman Rick Jaszczak says, in the famous words of Mr. Kite, \A splendid time is guaranteed for all.\ respectively in their specialty, while Baron Von Ricks and the r:Joater duplicated the feat in the pole vault. Co-captain Mike Rich cleared 6' 2\ in the high jump, but he had to settle for second. as RPI's freshman jumper eclipsed the Engineers' school record with a jump of 6'7\. That however is where Union's domination ended. Although the Garnet turned in several good performances, Lehigh's strength and depth, especially in the longer distances, brought them the victory. Without the services of two-miler Seamus Johnson who had been sick during the week, Union had to settle for one point in that event, on a fourth place performance by Jim Smith. Lehigh, the IC4A Cross-Country champions, took first, second. and third in both the mile and two-mile, with Union's Dave Rice capturing the fourth spot in the mile. The best track event for the Dutchmen was the 50 yard dash, where soph sprinter Dave White leaned all the way under the tape from ten yards out, to take the event. Dave was followed very closely by Skip Jamieson. Chunky co-captain Rick Jaszczak came through in a big way, as usual, winning the 600 yard dash in I :I 3, and coming back to lead the victorious mile Continued on Page 6 Mermen Lose Three More by PAUL CONNORS The Garnet swim squad bowed to three rival teams this week, each handing the Dutchmen distinct losses, with the season figures now showing 2-6. Earlier in the week the Mermen traveled to R.P.I. only to be stomped 76-37 by the 7 and 2 Engineers. Wednesday the Garnet returned home to host the University of Rochester's 2 and 4 squad. U of R Coach Bill Boomer's team gave the Union squad many close finishes, and held Coach McMurray's swimmers to first's in only four events. The times of the Mermen were slower than the usual paces turned in, with the exception of co-captain Tom Hough, who turned in a 12:40.3 in the I ,000- yard freestyle, his best time in the event. The Yellow Jackets led the entire meet before handing the Mermen a 62-49 loss. Rochester won last year 63-45, but Union leads the series with 23 wins and I 8 losses in the oldest swim rivalry begun in I 923. The tension mounted at the end of the optional diving competition, with the score 55-49. Union could have won by one point if the relay squad could have cropped first honors in the 400- yard free relay. Spirit and enthusiasm flowed from both Continued on Page 6

Page 8 CONCORD/EN~/&, Feb. i§, 1(!:72 : ... .It ' I ' ' , COncordy Sports . . Cagers Continue -Win Streak, B1.1t •.• ~·····················~ Jt To President MartiQ and .the Union CoDegeCommumty: * lt We wish to take this op.portunity to express our extreme * displeasure with the recent NESCAC ruling which prohibits * ~ us from participating in post season .play. The purpose of this lt .....- letter, however, is not to debate the advantages or * disadvantages of remaining in the league, but rather to * lt express our personal feelings about the decision which now * lt faces President Martin. * The purpose of intercollegiate athletics is twofold. First lt ! athletics should assist in the development of the individua-l -4.. ..,.- through hard Work,, dedication, and the abmty to work with ..,.. Jt others toward a common goal - excellence both on and off * lt the court. Second, a team inspires the people of its school lt * with its hard work and dedication to help promote a spirit of lit \\- pride and unity. We believe that the entire Union College lt .....- community of .students, faculty, alumni, and friends, would * benefit by our participation in an NCAA tournament. lt lf- The Union Colle~e Catalogue says, \The College values lt * athletics in direct proportion to the contributions they lt make to the College's program and to the individuals who * ! participate.\ One needs only to count the number of people 'oL_ ..,.- attending both home and away games, or to have seen the \\'\ lt alumnus who wore his .Block U sweater to our Drew game, * * to see the overwhelmingly great enthusiasm that a U-Coll lt lt basketball game generates. We believe President Martin * should decide in our favor in order for the College to place a lt proportionate value on the contributions we have made to lt * the school as an institution, to each other, a:nd to the lt * members c;>f the student body and factdty. It would be a Jt * shame to deny the school and the team the opportunity to * ,.,_ reach the heights for which we have worked so hard to attain lt ..,.. over the last two years. lt ln the final analysis, the decision rests solely with President * * Martin. We believe a bold move is in order at this time to lt * retain Union's autonomy regarding decisions concerning * * athletic policie:;. We implore you to accept any bid which * might be forthcoming. * The Union CoBege * lt Varisty BasketbaU Team lt ~*****************·****',. by MINNER. You had to see it to believe it. At most it sat 250 people, including 120 \choice\ folding chair spots situated around the circular track atop the (in name only) basketball court. TM length of the alleged hoop_ floor was small to begin with, equivalent perhaps with our own Alumni Gym, RPI's '87 \cheese- box,\ or Williams' infamous laselle \sardine can.\ But the engineers of Stevens Institute of Technology dic;I not stop at that. No sir, a good 10 square feet of playing surface per corner, that's 40 square feet in all, was made useless by the overhanging base of the track. You can .bet Geoff Walker and T otn Combs kissed their favorite · shots good~bye wben they saw that. The \bench\ was constructed by arranging the necessary amount ef folding chairs in a row, but the pine riding crew had to be sure to keep their legs scrunched \IP tight, so their feet wouldrft be on the court. The locker room facilities consisted of four white walls; a ceiling, and a floor. ln the warm-ups the Garnet had to contend with the area youth patrol for a few shots at the basket. And if you were lucky and there Wasn't much noise in the arena, you might be able to hear the whispered voice of the Where Are Y-ou Harol-d? by MIKE MESEROLE Where is Harold Martin when Union College really needs him? The Union basketball team, currently riding an eleven game winning streak while posting a f5. 2 season record, has been cut down on its way to an almost certain NCAA play-off bid and Union's own president .is doing nothing about it. According to last Friday's Concordy, Martin was \upset\ by the New England Small. CoHege Athletic Conference's . decision to prohibit Union's participation in any post-sea,son basketball activity. At the same time, however, presidential apologist Gordon Bingham, speaking, it must bl! presumed, for the college, aimounced that .. we accept the ruling.\ Perception of campus sentiment has never been one of the Administration's stronger points. Bingham's concept of the college evidently does not include the Athletic Department or the student body, because both elements are m complete opposition to the NESCAC decision. Yesterday, Senior Rich Macleod tried to · present President Martin with a petition of 800 student and faculty signatures protesting the conference ruling, but Bingham told Macleod that Martin was not in and while petitions we~e nice, the president's mind . was made up; the issue was closed. it is a safe bet that instead of being upset, what PresKlent Martin really feels is an acute sense of emban-assment. By having such a good season, the basketbal1 team has put him on the spot. NCAA tournament bids fall to teams that have achieved the kind of record and state ranking that Union bas. But given NESCAC policy, the only way that Union can hope to reach the tourney is if Martin fights for it. the · president is avoiding the fight. · One gets ·the distinct .. ... ~ ,< UNION'S BEAUTIFUL BENCH: How can you deprive these boys of their one shot at the big time? impression that Harold Martin sees V nion as a weak little brother in the eleven member conference (which includes - Amherst, Bates, Bowdoin, Colby, Hamilton, Middlebury, Trinity; Tufts, Union, .Wesleyan, and Williams), and does not wish to rock the league boat and get the big boys mad by speaking up. The official reasoning behind avoiding the play-off issue, according to MacLeod's conversation With Bingham, is to save Martin from the image .of a complainer, since he (Martin) plans to question the league rule on freshman eligibility for varsity sports (a rule that says ~· member may permit a freshman to play a varsity sport if it has traditionally done so) later this year. ·Well, that's a swell eJ<cuse, but it does not amount to much. The fact is, that the freshman question is not all that delicate. Last s.pring, all league member Athletic Directors voted 11-0 to follow NCAA and ECAC guidelines on freshman play, so Martin is not alone in the struggle. And it is doubtful that he would be labeled a complainer by his fellow· presidents when ~very coJJference A.D. is complaining about the same thing. Assault On Teamwork Instead of obediently genuflecting to Bowdoin President Roger Howell and company, and hiding behind timid, face-saving excuses, why doesn't Union's president open his eyes and look around. By simply giving in to NESCAC dictate~. Martin is forfeiting Union's right to do as it chooses. The issue also involves league rules ~ many of them malc;e no sense. On the tournament.. question, for instance, how is it Continued on Page 6 There will lle a very important meeting of any and · aD people interested in discussing what can be done ~ conceJ'Ding the fate of , the basketball tournament bid acceptance. Students and faculty alike 9 are invited to · come to bilk about •ny possible ideas they .have, especially wneerning some kind of gesture to show how disappointed we are. We wib meet in SS 016, Friday .afternoon (~fore tbe final two home gaines) at 3:30. · Jim Tedisco. pictured in an early season game. was hi(?h scorer against Stevens. He will be playing -i'n his homejinale Saturday. p.a. annou11cer. No matter, the only name in the Dutebmen st~rting ,line-up \that he got right was Mike Doyle\s. While the setting at Stevens may have been bush, the team was -not. They entered the game at 8 and 2, and had ea'sily handled some common opponents of Hninn's. The Stutemen knew iheir homecourt, and were aided by a very predominantly Stevens' crQwd. Perhaps for the ft.rst time thi~ season the Gamet were truly •:away,\ because you could count the Union students on one hand, ·and if you throw in Mr. Tedisco, Bacher and Abba, the Garnet throng barely reached double. figures. · Stevens opened. a quick seven point lead at the onset, as UnioB could not break through the Stutemen zone defense, which covered close to one third of the entire floor. On offense, the team from Hoboken just looked for their nationally-ranlced,. high-scoring forward, 6'1\ Tom Cress under the hoop. In the lust half alone, Cress canned an amazing n of 12 attempts, most of them hard- earned chip shots on rebounds musded right away from Tom Bacher. Cress finished the game with 31 points, netting 15 of 18 ftom the field, while pulling d'own a gaine high 15 rebounds. Cress teamed with forward Tom Mcinerney, a local New Jersey star, for .29 rebounds, as the duo he~ped · the · Stutemen defeat the Garnet in the battle of the boards, 49-46. The Garnet pulled close behind the tough .play of Mike Doyle underneath and the slick defense and passw.ork of Jim Tedisco. Tedisco made several key steals,. as did Bill Carmody, and the Garnet knotted the score at- 20 apiece with just less than 10 minutes to go in the .opening half. A Carmody theft led to a Tedisco hoop at 4:21 which put the Gamet up for keeps, 32-30. Tlte teams then traded \laskets til the buzzer -marked the end of the half with the Dutchmen up 39-37. The Dutchmen tried to remain ih their tough man to man defense, their_ trademark this year, but they could not pull away from Stevens, who for some reason, had switched-out of their zone into a man to man. At 14:10 Coach Walters gave Continued ()o Page 6 Mats Double Victors Over Amherst, State In matches reminiscent &f those last year, tbe U. Coil. grapplers defeated Albany State (27-18) and Amherst (22-20) in a double dual wrestling meet last SatUl'day, In doing so, the matmen upped their record to 4- 8. Probably the only letdown of the day was that the big match between Amherst's Gary Sklaver and Union's Howie Benedict didn't come off. After Wednesday's loss to Colgate, things looked bad for the wrestlers going into Saturday's. matches - Gary Morris; his arm in a cast, is out for the season, and C!!,ptain Mark Zullo was also still recovering from being sick. The ranks were so thin that the manager of the team, Franco Isgro, had to wrestle at 158 for t.he Gamet. But the rest of the team put it together, and helped by some key wins, took both Amherst and AlbanY State hopefully to break out o{ the slump -(with all its bad breaks) that has been plagUing them all season. The grapplers ~ere led by double winners Howie ·Benedict (who upped his record to 14-0) and AI Calabro (who scored two 4 point deCisions to raise his record to 6-2). They were the only doubl~ winners, but key wins were scored by almost ev~ry other Garnet wrestler - Larry Heron at 118 vs. Amherst; Larry Dagastin. at 142 vs. Amherst; Jeff White at 150 vs. Amhet:st; Bruce Freeman a:t 134 vs. Albany State; Gary Gurney at 167 vs. Albany State; and Pat Wardell at 190 vs. Albany State. So now that the wresders are winning again, let's see a good crowd at· Wednesday's home match against arch-rival R.P.I. It•s at 4:00 P.M., and it should be interesting - as are- all Union- R.P.I. athletic events. • .. ' .

i > ' : a .f .,. ,, \' t .. Founded at Union College 1877 Fla-ck In. Concert . . At Proctor's Friday Roberta Flack is coming. It's difficult to describe a voice like Roberta FfacR's. To say ·she's -an outstanding new talent is hardly enough; to say she's a combination of rock, soul, fQlk, gospel, and jazz is getting closer. The pUblic. is defining her as a brilliant new star by packing her concerts and club dates from coast to coast and buying up her three albums as fast as they're released. piano chording and jazz rhythm's - she js quite simply among the very best.\ Roberta Flack is coming. Tickets are on sale NOW for this Social Committee presentation to be held at the Proctor''s Theatre on February 25,, Tickets are $3.25 for Union students and their guests and $4.25 for all others and at the door, if any remain. They may be obtained · at the Student Activities Office. Roberta Flack Is Coming. Panel Debates Tenure Quota Consequences by PETER DICKERMAN disputed by panelists and ln an atmosphere which was members of the audience, many perhaps more informative than of whom were j,unior faculty ameliorative, .members of the members. Dean Lichterman College cammunity gathered concluded by asserting that he is Thursday night to discuss the \not happy'' about the Trustee variety o.f depressing tenure limitation, and would consequences caused by the prefer that in the future the imposition of a 60 percent limit faculty \police themselves\ by on faculty tenure. The panel was means of tougher standards for composed of the following tenure acceptance. people: Professors Enteman, Professor Enteman called the Bick, and Wells, Dean Trustee action a .. grave mistake\ Lichterman, and moderator capable of causing great harm to Dave Robbins. the College as an institution. In Dean Lichterman began the attacking the so-called new blood meeting with what he described theory as \bankrupt he noted as \background\ on the history tha..t incoming faculty faced with of the tenure system, which was no possibility of achieving tenure originated due to a desire to are likely to become minimally preserve a free exchange of ideas involved in the College withi~ the campus. c?.mmunit~. community. Assailing the As Ltchtern:an sees 1t, Th_e basts economic argument for tenure of tenure IS the protectwn of limitations Enteman claimed academic freedom,\ not (in ·that salar; differentials between untenured and young, tenured faculty often fail to equal the costs of recruiting new personnel; he cited one case in which recruitment costs ha·ve amounted to three times the money supposedly saved in salary differential. Professor Enteman added that proper curricular flexibility can be maintained through administrative action to alter departmental structure. Professors Bick and Wells are members of the ad hoc committee charged with communicating with the Trustees and· finding some common ground for resolution, but both men acknowledged that their task has not yet been accomplished. Professor Bick spoke of the need for \precision\ in informing the junior faculty member of his future Continued on Page 3 theory) job security as such. He listed three reasons supporting some sort of limitation in the number of tenured faculty: a) high tenure levels tend to. produce an \academic hardening of ~h~, a.rterle$,:' __ a _ . .decr.ease. .. in performance capabilities; b) large nutnbers of tenured faculty may deprive the administration · of desired flexibility in modifying the curriculum; 3) high tenure levels may involve economic hardship for- the College, as salaries of tenured faculty are naturally higher than those of untenured faculty. It should be added that each of these hypoiheses was vigorously Minority Views Add To Freshman Report The · four- 'nunonty- . reports all requirements for Freshmen attached to the text of the Report may lead to the reduct· Of the Ad Ho~ Committee on _the elimination of all require~e~ts~'~ Freshman year. reflec~ a. vanety The probable result of this, say of co~pl~mts but stgmficantly the authors, would be the als? . mdicate a f.undamental creation of an atmosphere obJectl~n to the philosophy of unfavorable to the pursuit of academic freedom-of-choiCe for scientific studies. There is the students expressed by the framers expressed desire to preserve the of the Report. c 11 • ''b 1 d · \ · M . . · 0 · · #I · d b o eges a ance settmg, m monty ptmon , s1gne y h\ h · d h 1 p ~ D · 11 . d 8 . k w tc science an tee no ogy are ro essors ·. ns:? an . 1 ~ • accorded equal treatment as states the belief that abolishmg compared with the social sciences Her first album on Atlantic Records was called ••First Take\ and was on the charts close to a year before the release of \Chapter Two\ which became a tn.ajor seller and really established her name in the record business. Her latest is called .. Quiet Fire\ and is making -U-nion Students For the United Nations Plan Publicity And Fund-Raising Drives and humanities. Minority Opinion #2 was signed by Professors (Neal) Allen, Nichols, Driscoll, Lewis, and Hick. They state their belief \that the goals of a liberal education are best met by a distribution . requirement beginning in the Freshman year,\ and that this will serve to increase contact between the two academic Centers. There is a further suggestion that the present Freshman Comp. Ed. requirement be replaced by at least oli.e course (or two five- week courses) in each Center. Minority Opinion #3, which consists of a paragraph signed by Professors Driscoll, Hartwig, and Bick, proposes that each student be required to pass at least two courses within each of the four Divisions in order to graduate, and that each department offer at least one course specifically intended for non-majors. · a rapid ascent up the record by DICK LAMM charts. AU three albums reflect \ 'I can onlY' conclude from the Roberta's broad taste which information that is available to covers such diverse .song writers me *** that the members of the as Leonard Cohen, Donny United Nations have perhaps 10 Hathaway, Ewan McColl, years left in which to subordinate Bacharach and David, Oscar their .ancient quarrels and launch Brown, Lennpn-McCartney, a global partnership to curb the Dylan and Gene McDaniels .-arift:s;;rat:;-e; to impr.ove the human whose biting satire seems tailor- · _ef.i.vi.rO.nment, to defuse the made for her understated style. pdj/ulation explosion,. and .to In concert, . Roberta just su.pjJly the required momentum knocks 'em dead. She last : io ·world development efforts. If appeared in this area this past · ·such a global partnership is not summer bringing a packed ·· forged within the next decade, Colonie Music Tent crowd to its then I very much fear that the feet with excitement. She has · problems I have mentioned will played nearly all the majoi\ have reached such staggering concert halls across the country proportions that they will be and has also appeared at the beyond our capacity to control.'' Newport Jazz Festival, The The man who sounded this Watts Festival, and numer~us warning has been watching coll~ges, near~y always leav1ng mankind's progress from the. audtences be,ggmg for more.. vantage point of his position as Roberta s sound, her the chief executive officer of the interpretati~rl •. has a ric~ bla~k most unique experiment in texture. Tht~ ts also _evident . m international cooperation. he! . own ptano. playmg which He is U Thant, the (former) sktl~fully underlines her vocal Secretary General of the United stylmgs: She takes each song and Nations. He is knowledgeable makes tt her o':\n. She someh?w and not given to excessive man~ges to achteve. the evo~atlve pessimism. His assessments of emotw.n of blues Wtthout bemg a our world's prospects for peace blues smger. and progress deserves our careful Don !\~eckman ·of the New consideration\ (from a report on :o~k . T1mes says of Roberta, the U.N. from the second session WJthm her chosen style - a of the 91st Congress). clear, . declamatory, a_nd Various students also have exceedtngly w~rm v?tce grave doubts about the highly supported by her own dehcate uncertain future of our planet. We feel that much work needs to be done to channel more energy in the direction of international cooperation. Hence, we have formed an organization of concerned Union College Students for the United Nations. Our organization has two basic goals. First, we wish to make clear the seriousness of our world's problems; in effect, we want to make people realize that immediate, and strong, support must be given to the U.N. (The U.S. has drastically cut our contributions this year). Secondly, we would like to encourage international cooperation by demonstrating our moral and practical support of the U.N. We plan to hold a Schenectady walk for the U.N. sometime in April. We welcome participants (or organizers) and ask you to please contact Ruth Ellsworth at Delta Chi, if interested. Along the lines of more material support, we plan to raise money for the U.N. On Monday, Feburary 21, a fund collection program will begin. There will be. cans and boxes located in various places on campus; we urge you to contribute. In addition; we would like to have a concert for the U.N. (Again, we will donate the proceeds.). We are presently writing away to a few well-know musicians in the hope that they will play at Union to support our ideas. Gaining support for our ideas is the main purposeof this article. We ate trying to solicit help for our programs and to encourage all interested students to join our organization. We need help for fund-raising, letter-writing, organizing other programs, etc. If you think you might be interested, please contact either Tina Burk in 102 North (377- 1368), Dick Lamm in 317 Fox (346-9304), Neil Thomas in 35 I Fox, or Steve Wayne in 357 Davidson. The True Role of the U.N. See ·Page3 This coming Monday night at 7:30 pm, in SS OHi, the International Relations Club lecture series will present Dr. Ta Chu Chen of the Nationalist Chinese Embassy in Washington. Dr. Chen, a spokesman of the emba~y, will be here to discuss the implications that the recent UN action will have on the future foreign policy of the Taiwan government. He will also touch upon other areas of interest concerning . US-Asian relations. As usual, there will be a discussion period after the talk upstairs in the faculty lounge - with refreshments. L-----------------------~ Minority Opinion #4, signed by Professors Neal Allen and Bick, attacks the Report's proposal that grades of D and F be stricken from the Freshman's permanent transcript. They view such a system as dishonest, in that it would eliminate from the records an aspect of the student's career. In their world: \People often grow and learn by failure, and there is no reason why Freshmen should be protected from it.\ Admittedly this has been a simpl~fied sketch of the objections contained within the minority opinions, but it does serve to highlight some of the issues involved.

·' Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 18, 1972 Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff '370-4956 Features Editor Matthew Swart? Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photography Editor Dave Conre} Asst. Photo Editors Scott Gordon Jeff Weilburg News Editor Howard L Stone 'AsSt. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors' William Holleran Mik-e Meserole Peter Bicker'llan -Maqaging Editor • ·Doug Wong' 346-9735 Business 1\'lanager Joseph P. Achenbaum 1hst. Business Manager · Michael Hurley · Sb .. M .. \ u ser1ption anager · Thomas J. Conley · :N;tional Advt. M;~ager Mark Shulman STAFF: Woody Gutherz, Sam Brody, Bob Johnson, Larry Wharton, Jon Philipson, Bill Westheimer, Steve Ente, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofsld, George S. Bain, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald, Reid Rossen, Paul Connors, Phyllis Edelman, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Frank DeLucia, Les ·Goldman, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barba~ McDonald, Patty Sipe. ruousnea I uesdays and Fridays dunng the schOol year by the stude.l•· body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National· Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising .Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre~entative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial off~. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 7?1 State Street, lichenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 2(. _cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anyWhere ~n the United State~ To the Editor: I was pleased to read the deservedly favorable review of Peace by Matthew Swartz in the last issue of Concordiensis. I think everyone in this community has been impressed by the revitalized theater in N ott Memorial, and eve:ryone is grateful to Barry Smith,· Charles Steckler, and Gary Parks for the energy, inventiveness, and cooperative spirit they have introduced into their productions so far. Art, music, and .. theater have indeed been coordinated creatively, and the excitement of this new approach has brought a new elan to the almost moribund Mountebanks of recent years. The production of Peace was so delightful that I saw it twice. On Monday night I saw it with many faculty and, although most of the audience was charmed and amused, I noticed some members of the aduience were definitely not amused by the excrementitious and sexual elements in the play. This of course is regrettable, but perhaps we have to endure shocks to our sensibilities and mores if we ar.e to learn and to grow. As George Bernard Shaw remarked some sixty years ago, \It's all that the young can do for the old, to shock them and keep them up to date.\ On Wednesday night I . took my ten-year-old daughter to see the play and she liked it enormously; she didn't notice anything shocking about it, rather she responded happily to the music, the dancing, the costumes, the good humor of it all. She summed up her experience simply by saying the play was a lot of ''fun,\ a pronouncement which I shared heartily. Estimable critic, my daughter! My compliments to the Mountebanks for an altogether enjoyable evening of theater. \Blessed are the Peacemakers.\ Mic:hael Sbinagel Dept. of English * • * \' To the Editor: On behalf of the Mountebanks, I would like to thank the Student Senate for making possible the continuation of Tony Abeson's acting workshop. You have shown great understanding and we appreciate this. Sincerely, Elliott Bardsley Tech. Director \' * \' ... To the Editor: We of West College would like to thank the men of maintenance department for their quick action in repairing the many defects of our dorm. Unfortunately, it was after the fact of Robert Sperry's article in which he enumerated many unfavorable conditions which existed in West College. It. is a shame that Mr. Sperry's a,rticle did not appear sooner in the year so that our R.A. would have been spared the wasted effort of making countless pilgrimages down to the J:lousing Office to complain about our situation. At least now, we can take showers without the fear that the shower nozzles will shpot off ·and possibly break someone's head. Our thanks to the maintenance department! Eric Reimann Pete Torpey Charles Taylor John Desrochers Tom White Joe Urschel Richie Curtis Litman Rick Novak Dan Moser \' . . . To the Editor: I would like to make some clarifications and comments about the article written by Mr. Tim Cain rep.orting my presentation of Feb. 9 on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. First of all, the name of the organization which I represent is the National Committee· to Investigate Assassinations, of Washington, D.C. Secondly, as I pointed out during the presentation, the over 25,000 photographs that we have catalogued, taken on November 22, 1963 surrounding the death of JFK, include each individual frame from each individual movie sequence. The number of frames in each movie sequence varies from 10 to 500 (the Zapruder film has over 480 frames). When each movie sequence is considered one photograph, which it should be in the context that I spoke of, the number· of catalogued photographs is over 510, of which the Warren Comrn1ssion examined only 26, or about 5%. Thirdly, the FBI did not destory the presidential limousine following the assassination, they rebuilt it, eliminating the opportunity to examine possible ballistic evidence. Concerning the manner of my presentation, I suggest that the Simple Indeed? by MATTHEW SWARTZ \Good morning, Miss Strife.\ \Hi Mr. Ka~roll. God, it's cold out.\ \Indeed I'd hardly noticed.\ ''Hatdly noticed? It's ju~t above zero.\ \Why bless me, and I've forgottel). my overcoat.\ Sheila had a difficult time refraining from breaking into a grin. The old man looked ~ worried now, as if he could never go home now that he rea'lized he llad no coat. Could it be love she felt for her teacher, a man of almost retirement age? \What problem are you cu~rently puzzling over, Miss Strife?\ \The multi-dimensional time pr~blem and set up, sir. I can't for the life of me understand · what the the()ry is. behind what you say here in the instructions about the pel).dulum.\ \It's really very simple, my dear. You remember what I told you during my introductory lectures on the pendulum?\ reporter's observation being seemingly disorganized should not be confused with being substantially overwhelmed. My- presentation is in fact not prepared in detail, but rather quite impromtu. It is shaped and formed by my train-of-thought, stimulated by the suggestions of slides, films, 'and most important, audience involvement and questioning. The amount of information concerning this fateful event is truly beyond comprehension (hence our use of computers to keep track of it). It would therefore be impractical, if not impossible, to try to offer every theory and supportive piece of evidence in three hours or even three days. Simply stated, if I had attempted to cover and support every theory of what · happened in Dallas that day that I have assimilated over that past seven years, we would nave been in SS 016 for a week. Furtllerrnore, if tile total amount of information accumulated by all reputable researchers was covered it surely would have taken a month! Finally, on the doubts about my \grasp of the complete truth surrounding the nightmarish events in Dallas in 1963,\ this is certainly an astute, profound, and consistent understatement. My goal is obviously not to establish the truth, which is certainly beyond my means; it is to stimulate the reality that the truth must, in fact, be established. It is to sltow that we have all been duped and made fools of by the preaching of an horrendous lie, told to cover up ominous forces of evil in the true spirit of George Orwell's 1984. To be sure, if I knew the truth about the death. .of John Kennedy, I would not be spendin.g my time lecturing at Union College. I would like to sincerely thank the members of the Union Colle.ge Community who attended my presentation for their valuable time, and for being such an excitingly inquisitive, courteous and attentive audience. • • Robert B. Saltman '69 Committee to Investigate Assassinations • • • • Margaret and Paul Bryant (Mrs. and Dean) announce the birth of their son, Timothy Neal, who arrived on February IS, 1972. • • • . ... ... \About the distance a unreal it all seemed then. But pendulum travels?\ now, in the depths of the \Yes that's right. What did l abandoned pool, with its smoked say?\ glass roof and echoing, \The person that invented the whitewashed, concrete walls, the pendulum experimented with true sense of the discussion various methods of harmonic · crystalized. motion in r:elationship to a self- .\Mr. Karroll, sir, how does wi·nding motor and chose the your position stand here at the pendulum over the spring,\ University?\ \Mmmm. Why was that?.'? \Oh l suppose I'm getting \llecause of the fact that the older arid cannot stand quite a,s more a pendulum sWings, the · straight as I might like, but ... \ greater the percentage of swings \No sir, that's not what I that contribt,~tes to ~ero mean. You job, sir. What has the displacement becomes. And, Ad Hoc committee decided because it :is going nq where, the about your te!\ching position time it tells us as moving ahead here?\· · cannot really be going anywhere ·~oh dear. my goodness. That at aU.\ reminds me of the letter I \Exactly perfect. Now, what received yesterday/' He pulled a does this tell you about your wrinkled envelope from his l:>ack multi ... dimensional time problem pocket and fumtiled with its seal. here?\ . From it he removed an equally Sheila smiled and tltanked her creased cbmpl,iter pr.int out sheet instructor. It all seemed so very and seemed to stare tbrough it simple now~ rather than tead it. Stieila moved As our friend looked through around and read over Ills the many boxes .of nuts and bQlts shoulder: . . . to use to fasten the clamp f:rom · Please see Mrs. O'Henry ,jn the which the pendulum would bang, job placement office at your her mind wandered to something earliest convenience this week. she had heard at dinner earlier Next: What Mrs; O'Henry that week concerning the Ad Jtoc wants. committee on retirement. How 'When you know it's for keeps You can choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee gives written proof of a perfect engagement diamond of precise cut and superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. ~ps.ake® REGISTERED DIAMOND fliNGS ® lUn8S from $100 to $10,000 Trade Maik Reg • .A. H. Pond Co. r---------- 1 HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 Send new 20 pg. booklet, iiPianning Your En\gagement and Wedding\ plus I full color folder.and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 251/. S.72 I Nom~---------------------------------------- 1 I AddteJs-------------------------- . I City . Co. I ----~------- 1 State · · · . · ip I L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~~~~~J • • 't. •. .... ; . I .t l 1 I ' • I ' ':J • '

ut b.e ~d g, re Ill ~e g :S I e :l 1 • • ~ .. . .. ; . f • 'J • CON'CORDIENS!S, Feb. 18, 1972 Page3 ·Role· of the··Ullited Nations: Center For Development dollars will be gtven to the three top ;entries and the anthology will be published by McGraw-Hill and Company. Please send all ·your material to: Anthology of College Students, P.O. Box 8102, Chicago, Illinois 60680. Entries must be postmarked no later than midnight, April 30, 1971 and aU manuscripts must be accompanied by a stamped self- addressed envelope. by TINA BURK internationalism. Whe.n the The primary role of the United delegates return to their home Nations is viewed as political by g.overnmental posts, they bring a most people. This image tends to greater understanding and feeling obscure other imp.ortant for the unit)\' of the global system. functions and results in a label of The components of the U.N. failure ~ failure to attain peace. are the arm.s which implement There have been many wars since the policies directed by the the U.N. was created, but this General Assembly. Their duties does not negate the wide range . 0 f range from supplying food and contributions the U.N. has made medical treatment to lending to the global system. money and providing technical As a political instituion, the assi$tance for development. ihe U.N. does provide a forum for subsidiary organizations perform countries to . :Jet off steam. In a vital service in not only debates and informal discussions, extending (he aid they do, but in governmems are .given. the preparing much of the opportunity to expr_ess their information distributed in the policies openly rather than resort U.N. They also provide an outlet to force or threat~ to convey their for multi~national aid programs positions. It will never be know without political ties developed how many wars have been by the recipient· and the U.N. avoided by U,N. debates. advisors (or social and economic The U.N.. serves . other progress. However, the funding pu.rposes in' relati(}n to for these programs is poor and communication. Small nations the results are irregular and which can. not doni t~ support inadequate. · embassies in every country are The ultimate objective of the given an opportunity for direct U.N. is the well-being of the communication with all nations. individual. This encompasses not The research, technical advice only peace and stability, but the and statistics compiled by U .N: economic and social equality components or member nations with which it is inevitably linked. give countries without the Through a global strategy the knowledge or resources U.N. hopes to create a more just important information they and rational world order. The would otherwise be unable to equality of opportunity is to be o·btain. Through the U.N. the extended to all nations and developed countries also share individuals by ensuring an developmental research and adequate standard of wealth and information. The U.N. is then resources, removing illiteracy, influential in disseminating providing housing and medical knowledge and closing care, and establishing communication gaps. international standard for human The personal involvement of rights. The Universal Declaration delgates to the U.N. can also of Human Rights states these have conseq,uences. Friendships . positive responsibilities of crossing national boundaries, a governments· to their citizens. greater understanding of the The U.N. has also been oth~r. _ count_r.~e~· _pro}?le;t!lS. }';lflu~n!~~~ }~. es!abli_shin_g}~!!l].1an through contact With delegates, a nghts til adned conflict and greater knowledg~ through wiping out colonialism .and contact ·with the experts racism_ It maintains)nvestigatory employed .by the U.N. aU tend: to. -:pnwe~. -and>ean :bring\· chltrges~ create .· a ·. feeling of threugh the ·lnternational C6urt fTl · · of 1!JStic~. against a government ./_ enUre. . . ·Thwhich. Nviolates the Declaration. • e U. . has also implemented Continued from Page 1 economic sanctions, as in the opportunities; Professo~ Wells case of Rhodesia, to punish attacked the quota system as an violators. · \abdica.tion of responsibility,\ in Recent programs of the U.N. that it relieves the College of the will . have many long-range need to distinguish merit as a effects. Amount these are the condition for permanent Second Development Decade, employment. the seabed treaty, and the Discussion following the initial planned conference on the remarks was o{ten. lively, with Human Environment. questions involving· the role of The Second Development tenure and proper criteria for Decade promises .cooperation granting ttmure, In a fitting between nations in increasing conclusion to the meeting, research, technical assistance, Professor Enteman asserted that and aid to developing countries. Union cannot become a great The preamble to the. program's college unless there are \a lot of official policy, adopted by all people working together;' to countries, states its objectives ma~e it such. An observer might are, \to create conditions of decide that harmony .of this sort stability ·and well-being and to is sorely lacking. ensure a minimum standard of -f:AVALIERS SPECIALJL.JJ;- HOT DOGS (new hot dog sauce) & HAMBURGERS SPECIALIZE- HOME MADE COOKED FOOD OPEN WEEKDAYS 6- 1:00 AM . WEEKENDS 6 - 4:00 AM 1 ' ' I I· j under new managership 1 ·~ Corner Erie Blvd. & Jefferson. ;t. . ·7 1*--~~~~-.-. ........ - ......... ~., .................... ~fl~..- MIKE'S ERIE BLVD. SCHENECTADY 346 .. 9213 living consistent with human dignity through economical and social progr . .;:ss and development.\ Perce11tages of economic and papulation growth for .developing cotmtries are established as are the growth rates of aid and <loans from develo,ped countries. Non- rec;:iprocal preferential treatment for exports of developing countries is called for throqJJ:h a ban on , tariffs and ,non-tariff barriers. Financial and technical assistance, priv:ate and governmental, is encouraged to diversify the primary products of developing countries though the devrloping countrie$ are to shoulder the main burden of d.evelopment to prevent economic dependency. Other objectives are: increased employment 11.nd ho usin.g, par·ticipation of youth a·nd women in ; the developmental :progress, reduction of illiteracy, and raising general levels of health and sanitation. The . treaty on tile seabed proposes enormous advances for protection of the seabed and landlocked or underdeveloped countries. Outside na tiona! waters,. the high se~s will. be controlled internationally l>y a governing board. Countries will pay for licenses to develop resources and will be forced to sbare resources and technology with countries unable to profit from the sea's wealth on their own. The environment will be protected by strict regulations concerning the . development of the seabed, fishing, .and marine pollution. Licensed countries will be expected to comply with :these regulation$ or lose. their license to exploit the resources. The sea-bed is declared a neutral area and will only be used for peaceful purposes. In 1972 the Conference on the· Human Environment will convene in Stockholm. This will be the first full-scale international cooperation on environmental problems. Problems· of developed as well as underdeveloped countries will be discussed. Knowledge will be exchanged to combat pollution and prevent its spread as more countries industrialize. The . delegates will have the .power to make ,treaties to ensure continued cooperation in combatting environmental problems. The Schenectady Pye Club presents Ian McHarg's film \Multiply .:. and Subdue the Earth\ this Friday night at 8:00 in the Schenectady County Library meeting room. !'here is no admission charge for this film by last year's Davidson FeUow, an (}Utspoken environmentalist. * * * \' The next Student Senate meeting will he held Tuesday, February 29, at 7:00 p.m~ .ln HU ll5. * \' \' * LOST: A r~st-colored puppy with white paws and a white chest. The dog has a red collar and answers to the name l.igger. Will anyone who has seen Tigger call Lynn Brown, 34{;-9935? Thanks. * * * * There will be a meeting .. of the Albany · and Schenectady Chapters of Zero Population Growth Thursday, Feb. 24 at 7:30 P.M., in Humanities Room 114. ·Prof. Edward Renshaw of SUNYA will speak on the Economic Consequences of a Non-Growing Popu·lation. Anyone interested in ZPG activities is invited to attend the meeting or to contact BiU Fox, 370.()084. * * * * 1 The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on February 29 at the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:45 P.M. All those interested in participating are welcome. The results of the last tournarnen1 held on Fe h. 'g W\ere as ·folloVIs. L Mike Levinson-Bob FeUer 2. Bob Lavin-Marc Maller 3. P~ul Chamsky-D. Hartman * * * * An anthology of College Students is being ·J)Ut together in Chicago. This book is to contain original writings (of any ld!ld), along with ·photographs a.nd drawings by co1lege students. Cash prizes ·of $100, $50, and $25 SKIDMORE & UNION spend spring vacation irz B£HfnUilfl Sl99 P.S.- tripst() . . Puerto Rico, Nassau and up & Acapulco available CONTACT LOUISE AT SKIDS 584-500 - ext. 505, or 587-1571 * * * * The Student Mobilization Committee is sponsoring a National Student Anti- War Conference to be held in New York City, February 25-27. The conference will be held at Washington Irving High School. 40 Irving Place, At 7:30 p.m. February 25 there will be a teach- in on Indo-China. The conference begins February 26 at 10:00 a.m. There is a three dollar registration fee, The conference is open to all. Every person has a voice and vote. Contact Dan McNett at the library or Ted Lindsey at 370-3426, if you plan to go. A second panel discussion dealing with tangled problem of tenure wiD be held Tues\'ay February 22 at U:30 AM in SS 016. Participants will include President Martin, Professors Wells and Jonas, and student Steve Wood. In addition, John Gillis of the Association of American Colleges will be a guest p~rticipaot. Although the first tenure meeting has produced no instant solutions to the prob I em, most people attending considered it enlightening and highly 1 worthwhile. We urge students I to make their influence felt, as this matter inevitably affects everyone within the College. The Union College .aadio Station, WRUC (640 AM) is proud to announce a signal. Not just .a signal but a clear 1 signal. In short we believe that our signal is now available to anyone who lives on the campus. Due to hours of installation work by the crack · technicians in Old Gym Hall~ we now have a brand new transmitting system. If in fact the signal where you live is not up to par let us know and we'll look at your radio (ha ha). In light of the U.N.'s financial crisis, a result of decreasing donations including large cutbacks in u.s. funding, we l>iscover the World on Your must reassess our conception of •SEMESTE. R A\'\ S£A the U.N.'srole in the world. It ftl is not as paltry as we might · · think. It is not an organization Sauls each September & February dedicated to compiling reports Combine accredited study with with no puroose. Above aU, it is educational stops in Africa, Aus- not merely a talking organization tralasia and the Orient Over 5000 aspiring to be an intetnationa:l students from 450 campuses have political force in war and peace already experienced this interna- resolutions. It is a viable, tlonal program. A wide range of valuable center for information, financial aid is available. Write develQpment, talk 1 aid, research, now for free catalog: and hopefully peace in the near WCA, Chapman Colle!Qe, Box CC12, Orange, Cal. 92666 future. _:= ___ :---------_;;,.~---....:...-.......:::..:..:..:.::::.:.::....:.:.:=-.J ~lllllllllllllllllliiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!: I .· MaurlceB.~~~~~n~ i ; 'Fer three . } I ~ ~ 18 rations./ ~-.~~ \f ~. 1 ~ I = IRG ...... · 6 = = w· ho 1e ·. · · • \\'jiiiJ\\\' = !!i now... - · 5 =· H ... __ = 5 . CIV& Uvcft . . f) 5! ~ recommending § 5 = ~ HERSHEL. MAURlCE E WALTER ~ ;a \31Jr~ion Graduates in Graubart Family' s § 166 JAY ST. 5 5 5 5 fOrt HONEST SERVIc;E AND GOOD )fWELR'f a 5 5 . iiillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll tllllllllll tlllltll.llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli 1111111111111111111111111111111111111511111111111111111111111111111111 i 11111111111111111111111111111111 ~

Page 4 CONCORDJENSJS, Feb. 18, f'972 Concordy Sports Referees Nearly Ruin Hoop Season by MINNER Say grace to the big referee in the sky; for without his reverent intervention, Union Coilege would not have to worry about winning twenty games this year. Union came inches away from what would have be.en a catastrophic loss Tuesday at Amherst, as junior guard Chris Petrides -of the Lord 1 effs, who had hit three straight jumpers and had only missed one shot in the last half, rimmed the hoop with a twenty footer at the buzzer as Amherst fell one point short, 64-63 to the second ranked Garnet cagers, of NYS' college divisio·n poll. Union~ winners of 12 straight games, upped their record to 16-2. Referees Costly Union was victimized during the last five minutes of the .game by what Coach Gany- Walters allegedly called, ~·the Worst officiating I nave ever witnessed \ · Actually the momentum of the game changed with 8:30 left on the clock. Union was sitting comfortably in the lead, 57-47 on Jimmy Tedisco's sixth straight basket of the second half, a twenty-five foot swisher, at 9:33. After cutting the lead to seven on a three point play, _Amherst benefitoo from the first, and worst by technica I .standards, of seven consecutive blatantly glaring errors on the part of the striped whistle-bearers .. On a missed Lord Jeffrey shot, Tom Bacher came down with,- on his part, a clean rebound. The official blew his whistle, but could not decide what to call. When tbe cloud of .confu&ion cleared, the Amherst rebounder who had' been on Bacher's back, was on the line; for, now get this, TWO SHOTS. He sank both. In basketball a player is awarded a two shot foul only wnen he is interfered with in the act of $hooting, or flagrantly or intentionally fouled. To repeat, Bacher had the ball when the whistle blew, and touched no one, intentionally or otherwise. After the game an irate Garnet fan protested this ruling on the grounds that it was not an error in judgement, but a blunder in the knowledge of the rules of the game. The hot words caromed off deaf ears, which perfectly matched .an adjacent pair of blind eyes. In the following two minutes and thirty-three seconds, the Dutchmen built and held a seven point lead on baskets by Doyle and Bacher from beautiful assists by Tedisco and Carmody; Tedisco also dropped in another long bomb at 5:57, but Amherst countered on two out of three basket attempts, making it 63-56 Union. Union was to score only one more point in the next six minutes. Errors Continue Error number two . came· as Willy Carmody drove·in·for a Jay- up and was nearly decapitated before and -after the shot. No whistle sounded. Seconds later Jim Tedisco suffered what could have been a critical injury, but turned out only to be a minor hip bruise. Still Amherst converted the turnabout into a bucket and the score . stood 63-58, with 4:31 togo. The third mistake followed, as Jimmy Tedisco wfs thrown to the floor ·after attempting another long bomb. Both sets of officiating eyes were apparently watching the flight of the ball. At 3:06 Mike Doyle was fouled on a rebound, and he converted the free throw to close the Garnet scoring, the score reading 64-58. At 2:40 the Lord Jeffs added another bucket, cutting the Garnet lead to four. Then at 2:09 Willy Carmody went to the line for the first of two crucial ene and ones that the Garnet missed. However Mike Doyle grabbed the rebound and returned the ball to Carmody. Amherst's sixth round N.F.L. draft choice, Jean Fugett tied Carmody up, but again there was no whistle and a start-led Fugett dribbled down court with the ball. Mike . Doyle meanwhile had hustled down court, and had cemented himself in front of the charging footballer. Bowling over Doyle, Fugett connected with his attempt, and finally the whistle sounded. An unbelieving Mike Doyle was told to raise his hand, as the laughing Fugett went to the line for a three point play he knew he was more than lucky to be getting. Back to back poor calls for three more Amherst points. The Garnet were now only up by one point with 1:53 remaining. Area Alumni Back Cagers by BILL HOLLERAN The tournament hopes of tht Dutchmen, riding a spectacular 12-garne winning streak and currently ranked number two in New York behind powerhouse Brockport State, have been buoyed in the past w-eek 'by a massive outpouring .of support by students, faculty, alumni, and area fans. On Tuesday. the Schenectady Union College Alumni Club, I ,253 members strong, voted to u_rge Dr. Harold C. Martin. and the rest of the College administration to take every possible action to have the NESCAC ruling overturned. In a related development, Roger Howell Jr., spokesman of the NESCAC Executive Committee which blew the whistle on the Union ,petition, has found that the pendulum swings both ways. Howell also happens to be president of Bowdoin College, the reigning Division II hockey champs of the ECAC. He is MATS WIN by WOODY GUTHERZ On Wednesday, the Union College wrestling team deflated the R.P.I. wrestlers and pinned them down to a 38-14 over-powering win for their third straight V·ictory. The fans, headed, by Marc Mindel and Michael Walker,, watched along with headcoach Gerry Everling as captain Marc Zullo led his team to victory. The team is now 4-8. At 118, Larry Heron won his second match of the year with a forfeit. Captain Marc Zullo, weighing in at 126, easily pinned his man in the first peri<>d. Bruce Freedman. at 134, had a little more difficulty with his match, but managed to pull through with a second period pin, upping the Garnet lead to I 8-0. Larry D'aggastino won his match at 142, in a 10-6 decision, putting the Dutchmen up 21-0. Then off the manager's bench, Franco Isgro wrestled to a hard fought, courageous loss to R.P.I. in a first period pin. Jeff White after a tough fight got pinned by his opponent, making the score 21-12. : After eight minutes of hard core wrestling, Gary Gurney held on and tied his R.P.I. opponent 4-4. The next three matches were won by the domineering Union squad. Billy Simpson took his man in a 4-2 decision, widening the Garnet lead to 26-14. At 190, ••Big\ Pat Wardell pinned his man in the third period; this was definitely the high point of the match. Then at the top of the list, Howie Benedict walked out on the mat and received a standing ovation, The R.PJ. coach looked at Howie, and just forfeited the match. The Wrestlers travelled to Rochester for the State Meet today. Although their record is poor the Garnet have an outside shot at taking the tournament, because of strong individual wrestleiS in Howie Benedict. Ma.rk Zullo, and Alan Calabro. Calabro did not wrestle Wednesday because he was losing weight to make 118 for the State meet. reportedly in a high Dungeon over the fact that his team will not be able to go to the ECAC tourney because of the same ruling which Is stalling the Garnet. So upset is Howell that he recently charged the ECAC with inflexibility and unwillingness because it is unwilling to modify a newly installed eight-team playoff format to suit him. Last week, of course, Union was the victim of Howell and Co.'s own brand of \inflexibility.\ Bowdoin is one of six schools in the 11-member NESCAC which play intercollegiate hockey, but NESCAC policy which prohibits play in more than a regional, four-team tourney will probably prevent Bowdoin from defending its championship this winter. Howell reportedly has been trying for two years to influence John· E. Sawyer, president -of Williams College and a virulent opponent of post~season play, to fashion a clause which would exempt the Bowdoin sextet from NESCAC rules. Howell indicated this week that he has been trying, with little success, to get the ECAC to revise its new eight-team playoff format in order that NESCAC teams,. namely Bowdoin, can compete. Upset over the turn of events, Howell commented, \The ECAC has shown itself to be completely inflexible on this point. They were advised of the NESCAC position long before they decided to expand the tournament. In short,· the ECAC has shown a to.tal lack of willingness to compromise or to work towards solution to the proble111.\ Awwwwww. NightniariSh Horfor situation, no one knows for sure, Cool Geoff Walker took the· Lavigne in~bounded the ball to ball from Tedisco and beat his Petrides, setting up th~ near man to the basket for an easy heart-breaking toss. As tb,e ball bucket at 1:40, but out of floated towards . the hoop, all nowhere the .referee blew · his · thoughts -flashed back to the whistle for a travel. At this point Wesleyan an:d Harpur games ·of disbelief was not the word for last year, where we were beaten what the Dutchmen were feeling. at the buzzer. - More like nightmarish horror. Statistica1ly~ Tedisco led the Gamet with 2Z points, on -~- JO- With the croWd standing, and the hearts of all Garnet supporters .racing at a maximum, Bill. CaJ;tnody came -up with a clutch defensive stuff, but the Garnet turned the ball right back to /, 'llherst. Again at 0:52 the defense came through as Jimmy Tedisco stole the ball. 18 seconds later Jimmy was fouled hut his attempt from the line to ice the game fell short. The Lord Jeffs held the ball for twenty~three seconds in an attempt to get one clear, unanswerable shot at the hoop, but a traveling violation with II seconds left seemed to end all hopes for Amherst. Tedisco took the ball out and seemed content to dribble out the . remaining time in the game. At half court he was jumped by three Amherst players, and for the seventh and fmal time in eight minutes, the refs were simply unbelievable. \Charging on number 15!\ A numbed Coach Walters looked at the three seconds remaining on the Clock, and went to his bench. Chuck ·Abba got the call to guard ace Bob ·Lavi\gn'e. ..Chuck ~had done a marvelous job for over 15 minutes at the · end of the first half and the beginning of the second halfdefending the Amherst star. Perhaps out of respect to Abba or because pressured by the for 21 performance. Mike Doyle pulled down 15 rebounds, tops for Union, while hitting three field goals and 9 of I 1 ftom the line for 1$ poilits. Pistons Watch Tedisco Notes of interest ,thanks to Leapin': the Garnet were ranked 14th nationally for their 64.5 points per game as of Feb. 8. Recent games should bring the Dutchmen back into the ranking, which they dropped out of after the Norwich game. Two Detroit Piston scouts witnessed Jimmy Te.disco's Amherst perlormance. They were impressed with Jimmy whom they've-· seen before, , but - could only laugh at the bizarre officiating. The Garnet's first game victory over Bridgeport looms more and more impressive. The Purple Knights recently lost only their third game of the season to C.C.N;Y. by one point. Bridgeport's other loss - was to nationally rariked small college powerhouse Sacred Heart, recent . twenty point victors over a demoralized Siena quintet. The Garnet's victory Tuesday gave them supremacy over the ••Little Three\ Amherst, Wesleyan, 'and Williams. This weekend marks Jimmy Tedisco's final two games at the fieldhouse, against Harpur Friday and Hamilton Saturday. Look for an exciting match-up in his finale against Hamilton's flashy frosb Mark Badger of Schenectady. Mermen· Run Into Vermont by PAUL CONNORS The Garnet swimmers traveled Wednesday to face the University of Vermont at Burlington. The 11-0 UVM stomped the 2~6 Mermen of Union with a 78-31 Joss, with Dutchmen now 2-7 for the season. In the 400-yard medley relay, · Mitch Weisburg improved his time one full second in the backstroke split, while Bruce Goldberg shaved some 2 seconds to show his best time in the fly this season over a 100-yard course. The only individual win was by breaststroker Alex -Bodenstab, showing one of his better times in the 50-yard freestyle event. Mark Shulman turned in his best time of the season in the 200-yard freestyle event, sporting a 2:13.5. Co-captain Tom Hough turned in his usual fine performance in the 1 00-yard freestyle, with a 53-,o, improving his time by better than a second over past meets. Diver Mark Fostor perhaps gave one of his best performances of the season in the required and optional diving competition, although he placed third behind the two entries of the UVM. Chip Murphy broke a minute for the first time this season in the 100-yard free-style. Bruce Eggleston showed a 6:10.4 in the 500-yard freestyle, cutting 'his time back from a 6:21,7 in the past meet. The team of Shulman, Eggleston, , Bodensta b, and Hough captured first in the 400- yard free relay, with splits of 55.6, 55.4 and 52.3, and an overall time of 3:41.0, a slower pace than in previous meets. The Mermen travel to Hamilton February 26th. Hamilton, considered a strong squad, wen last year 78-35, but Union leads the series 23-7-l, which started back in ·1947. Several members of the Union squad will journey March 3 and 4 · to the State championships after the Hamilton meet. Costly Win For Freshman Hoop by FRANK DeLUCIA Sweeping to their sixth straight victory, Union's Freshmen Cagers shelved a stubborn Amherst squad 66-62, Tuesday. The win could, however, prove co$tly as the Yearling's premier center and game leader with 26 points, Charlie Gugliotta injured his foot. Barry Roff hiked his seasonal average with 12 points and numerous boards, as the Dutchmen's guards Bill Underhill and Don Zee directed a consistent offense. Gugliotta performed with a deep cut suffered in the first half, but played an effective second stanza while literally aching from head to foot. Joe Kenny and Jack Comerford combined for' 18. The Freshmen will entertain Albany State Saturday, at home. '. ,, • ' /i c ~' ' ' I . '1\) . ' . t -~ t • .. ,.~.~

!J -\\ ' . ' . f j' ... I • VollOl, No. 32 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK February 22, 1972 Price Twenty Cents Tedisco Super, Garnet Romp byLEAPJN Jim Tedisco put on a display that none of his 3500 fans will ever forget as Union won a record 14th straight, I I 0-79, over Hamilton. The game had been snowed out on Saturday. Last Friday, the Garnet whipped Harpur by a 75-57 margin. Union's five graduating seniors played their final home game in spectacular fashion last night. Those five, inserted in the starting lineup, got the Garnet off and running to a 5-0 lead as the Continentals turned the ball over five times in the first two minutes (and 17 in the half). With 15:33 remaining and the score 6-3, Coach Walters replaced all but Tedisco with the four regular (underclass) starters, and they maintained the 2-1 pace, giving the Dutchmen a 48-24 lead at the intermission. The half was typical, as Geoff Walker scored 12, T edisco, Mike Doyle, and Bill Carmody added nine apiece, and Tom Bacher got six. Hamilton's 6'10\ freshman center John Adams fouled out with 9:06 to go. Ernie Found, a perfect 3-for-3 from the floor and the line, fouled out in the first minute of the second half, which was not a contest, but an exhibition. Union led, 70-35, with 12:27 to go. While the Dutchmen are nationally ranked among the top 20 small-college defensive units, this was the night that Jimmy Tedisco would emphasize his unequaled offensive skills. He put on an exhibition that would stun the Harlem Globetrotters. He hit 25-footers and then moved to the outside to score from 30. He drove and did the impossible time and again, with layups or dazzling, behind-the-back passes. And he scored 32 points in 18 minutes of play in the second half. Roberta Flack will appear in concert this Friday, February'26, at 8:30p.m. in the Proctor's Theater, (Tickets are pow on sale in the SAO, $:3.25 for Union students, $4.2\5 for all others. The other four seniors rose to the occasion. Rein \Kraut\ Eichinger was strong off the boards. Rich Goldberg made a Tediscan layup. Bob Pezzano hit half of his six shots and also rebounded like a big man. He and fellow co-captain Tedisco were carried from the Field House by their te<!.mmates after they had cut the net. I.R.C. Speaker Talks Finally~ Joel Roslyn played a great floor game. The throng yelled for \Joel\' for two rmnutes as Roslyn turned colors and benchmates rolled with laughter. At last, the dead-panning Gary Walters relented, and Joel responded with a couple of 20-footers. Every Union player scored except Jim Bolz and Herb Reichenbach, who divided six rebounds while playing briefly. Tommy Combs hit a beautiful corner jumper to make the stats. On The ·Future of Taiwan But it is Tedisco that will be remembered as the greatest eager the Capital District could ever see. Jimmy hit 15 of 24 field goals. He was 12 for 17 during \showtime\ (the last 12 minutes) and made all but one of his 12 free throws, adding five rebounds and nine assists to his great finale. byTIM CAIN Taiwan is an island nation that lies about 100 miles off the southern ·coast of mainland China. Taiwan's relations with its nearby relative, the People's Republic of China, were the main topic of the lecture delivered by Doctor Tai Chu Chen, a minister in Taiwan's Washington embassy. Dr. Chen spoke faultless London-accented English, a product of his education at Columbia and London University. He also received part of his education in Peking, where he spent seventeen years of his-life before leaving the mainland to live on the island of Formosa. Taiwan .is a densely populated island ·about the size of Massachusetts with a population comprised of native Taiwanese, immigrants from the mainland, and a Japanese- speaking group that lives mainly in the southwestern part of the island and has not been too receptive to the efforts of the national government to convert the diverse elements of the nation into a uniform, mandarin- speaking country. Taiwan has gone through twenty-one years of martial law, during which it has developed an economy that is not only independent, but in recent years has given significant amounts of foreign aid to African and other Asian nations. Taiwan 1 s per capita GNP is about three times that of its mainland counterpart. However, at least Y2 of the budget is allocated to defense spending and the government maintains a standing army of 500,000 men. The reason for this heavy emphasis on defense is that relations between Taiwan and the People's Republic of China have been something less than harmonious since the Communist takeover of the mainland in 1949. Doctor Chen explained to an audience of about twenty people in Social Sciences 016 last night the philosophical, historical, and political basis for the present situation in which there are two sovereign nations that claim to be the real China. China, says Doctor Chen, is a nation that \identifies with a culture that extends back 3000 years.\ Confucian thought, which has historically been the guiding philosophy in Chinese daily ·life, says that the people are most important and the sovereign is least important. ' 1 Ethics\ and the family unit are important aspects of Chinese culture. The Chinese philosophy of Taoism, which accentuates the value of simplicity in daily life and is opposed to \unnatural or strained behavior,\ has also been very important \in maintining control and stability in China\ throqghout its history. The Communists, Doctor Chen said, have been doing their best to break the hold that Chinese philosophy and \the traditional way of thinking\ has had on the Chinese people. Chen said that ''Communism violates all principles of human nature. Ethics are ignored; the will of the people is ignored. Love and other expressions of human emotion are considered 'rotten bourgeois thinking!'\ Chen said that the Chinese are not allowed to .think. He said that Mao Tse-Tung is determined to wipe out tradition and the Confucian way of thinking. Mao, said Doctor Chen, believes that tradition must be stifled in order to bring about a Communist form of government. Additionally, Carmody clicked on four of five shots and Doyle on seven of eight free throws as each sat out the final 20. Bacher hit 6 of 8 field goals and Walker went 10 for 13 from the line. Union hit nearly 50% from the field and almost 80% (40 for 52) of its foul shots. Tedisco's shooting touch prompted one spectator to remark with mock chagrin, \He missed a couple of open 30-footers!\ Jimmy was not without a rival, but in outside shooting only. Mark Badger, a 5'9\ Continental freshman from nearby Niskayuna High, hit seven straight long ones late in the game. However, it must be pointed out that his 11-for-25 overall performance was a direct result of Union's \Tedisco-on-defense Chucky Abba. Badger's streak was against Tedisco, who was being careful not to draw his fifth personal foul. Badger hit his average of 25 points, 21 in the second half. According to Chen, these efforts to alter the Chinese way of thinking have all been in vain. \Communism has never been accepted by the Chinese people,\ he asserted. \We believe,\ Chen Continued on Page 6 Continued on Paie 6 Martin Reinforces League Stand Stressing Its Value In Future The following statement was issued last Thursday afternoon by President Harold C. Martin concerning the situation with the Union.basketball team and the New England Small College Athletic Conference. \In my time as President of Union, few of its successes have been more spectacul .r or more gratifying than the records set by the basketball team during the past two years. Because I share the pride that students, alumni, and t~e communi!¥_ quite properly take in the team's achievements. I also share their disappointment at rulings that will prevent the team from displaying its skills in the larger arena of tournament play. \The decision to enter the New England Small College Athletic Conference was made by the Board of Trustees, on my endorsement of a recommendation from the Athletic Department. Entry into the league carried with it an implicit agreemtnt to abide by the league's rules, and as in all such agreements, a measure of institutional autonomy was necessarily surrendered. We have asked for a waiver of the tournament. Our request .. has been denied, and our agreement remains in force. Were I asked for a recommendation today, I should renew my earlier one that we enter and remain t the league, for I am persuaded that the larger advantages of the association will eventually be seen to outweigh the admitted disappointments in this particular instance. .. The conference is in its first full year of operation, and the tournament ruling has already effected not only Union but several other member colleges, including Bowdoin, which, as matters now stand; will be unable to defend its regional hockey championship. It seems apparent to me that this rule must be re-examined. At the next meeting of the league's presidents I shall therefore move for a review and reconsideration of the policy regarding post-season play.\

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 22, 1972 \ Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff \370-4956 Features Editor _Matthe\\ SVIaru Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Phot.ography Editor Dave Conrc~ Asst. Photo Editors Scott Gordon ·Jeff Weilburg News Editor Howard l. Stone Ma11aging Editor Doug Wong 346-9735 Business Manager Joseph P. Achimbaum ·Asst. Managing Editor Asst. Business Manager Gail w. Goodman Michael HUrley Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Peter Bickerman Subscription Manager Thomas J. Con!ey National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman STAFF: Woody Gutherz, Sam Brody, Bob Johnson, Larry ·wharton, Jon Philipson, DiU Westheimer, Steve Ente, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. B11in, Tim Cain, Mar4 ·MacDonald, Reid Russell, Paul Connors, Phyllis Edelman, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe Pete Torpey, Bob Speny Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the school year by the studerit body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National· Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., Coll~ge Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N..Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym,. Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, ~chenectady, N.Y. I Z-307, 346-2356. Entered' in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscpp~ion 20 cents a copy. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. · Now Is Your Chance If you are reading this, you most likely are interested in what's being printed in your college newspaper. However; that is not to say that you are necessarily pleased with what you read. Most everyone I know complains at one time or another about the Concordiensis. Unfortunately, the number of .people that are interested in doing something, I mean work·ing with it, is insignificant indeed. The question that arises is: If the staff Of the Concordiensis were any larger, would that improve its quality? I say pr.o.bably not. What the paper needs is not more people beyond the already phenomenally high thirty-eight staff members, · but a new attitude. A cadre with unique ideas and insight as to What a periodical can ·be with a little creative thought. Dammit, tradition is just not that intriguing and that's exactly what the Concordy has been during the time I've attended UQion. Personal slander is my farthest intention here. Some of my best friends bave been editors-in-chief; from Bill OuzeT, through James Stewart and into the present regime. But the framewoTk, the basic fo1;1:ndation on which all ,this' crap is· based• is, meaningless; nGt to me,ntio,n, boring. I ~ll,Y try someting q.ew. for a. While . and j,Lit's • unpleasant then you can always return to the void. But for God's sake try it and stop crying. Next Monday the Concordiensis is having elections for editpt-in- chief. Onl.Y people who ha? thei_r name~ ·. in the mas· t'h e: a·.~ , in- the last 1ssue ca·n vote m this electton, as the bylaws of the c0nstitution read. Is that what you want? Do you want the· \same people going to press for the next ten, twerity or even forty weeks? I hope- not because if you do\ you have'nothiilg to 'cofu.plairi abo.ut and you• need read no fllrth~r. What I propose is a college wide referendum on this issue in the attempt to change the eons'titution. It takes three quaters ·Of the newspaper staff to change this ~ylaw . but I ·-'say as members of the community which this newsv.aper serves, your voices deserve to be heard, if not actually counted in a direct vote. I'm not about to pull a \Dick Nixon I've got a secret\ type affair here but there's no reason to pursue the matter further if there's not widespread support. If you are unhappy and want a change in YOUR -newspaper, take a look at the mast- head (that box that appears in the top left corner of page two) ~ 1· see who you know up there. Speak to them and tell them wnat's on your mind because the way it stands now, only they can do something about it. If you wish, you may drop me a line through the intra-college mail service, box 161. \Either we suck our thumbs and whimper or we puzzle out what's wrong, analyze why it's wrong and implement the means to change it. It's a very simple dialectic. M.S. • • • • • • • APOLOGIA: Some letters and other news notes scheduled for this edition of CONCoRmENSIS are skipped because of mechanical dif- ficulties. They will be inserted in our next. edition. (Ed.) You need not travelfar Moffett's liquor Store Lowest Price in N.Y.S. YOUR FAVORITE WINES - CHILLED Boulevard Bowl 1315 ERIE BLVD. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 BOWL FOR HEALTH l'o the Editor: After experiencing the injustice of organized book selling-buying, I feel that the time has come for an organized Student Co-Op. for. selling and buying used books. This way the students will not have to spend so much money on books, and those who are interested in selling will receive a fairer price for their used books. I suggest a Student Co~Op book sale during the Registra#on days; during which a certain. area will be set for this purpose. I will proceed in' planning 'this for the Spring Term if I receive adequate· student support. Please voice your opinions. Bennett R. -FitzAI!m-lloward ... * * * college community. This is one opportunity for students to be a part of this process. If yeu are interested, copies -of the report are available in the library or from Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities office. Anyone who ·has . specific comments but won't be able· to come to the meeting ean speak to ttle or drop off_ written remarks in my box in the SAO. · Sincerely; David s.. Kdbbins *'*** 1, To the Editor: A report has recently · ·been published bY the Committee studying the freshman year. I woutd urge all students, particularly current freshmen, to read this report. If you form opinions on their findings and recommendations, I also strongly * * ·*- * T:Q the Editor, On Friday afternoon, Harold c,: . Martin addressed· an assemblage ·Of students, outside fl,g~tators, and basketball pla~ers. In< .-typical form, he accepted no responsibility for anything; it .was the> omnipotent ''Board . of Oirectors\ that ·could give ·mm t-h«fr OK to 1 accept a tournarn~nt ·· biq,._ .' ~ .. . . ' . ',A distinct minority of on.~. I de~fied the maj0rity view. that H:CM should call the 12 bQard- m\';mber trustees, on the grounds . that it wouldn't do. any good. T~ustees do.n't give a shit about the .. students that comprise their beloved, a4na mater! To the Editor: urge that they will c~ntribute to Yesterday, the Bear came out of hibern,atien Iong eno14gh to inform.me that 12 trustees out. of 12 said that Union must stay in I was planning to write the evaluation of the report; another long rambling Jetter which will be made by the All- tonight about the Fres!lman Year · College Senate. · NESCAC. . . Report when I discovered that There are three alternatives Peter Bickerman had said all I open to students who wish. to wanted to and in a much better guide the future of this report. I) fashion. Talk to your advisor. He will·be Thi$ is not to say \I told you so\ so much as to point out ~hat ONLY PRESIDENT MART~N can remedy this . deplorable situ11tion. The Student Senate this very receptive to discovering evening voted to table discussion what the students consider good of the report until its next or b~d in the report. 2) Talk to meeting in two weeks. Senators members of the Curriculum . \I will not disregard· . league felt that they wanted to discuss Committee (a list of members rules,\ said he on Friday. Yet, the report in a more informal can be obtained from any faculty the rules on tournament fashion and as a result we are member). They will exert a eligibility are \murky.\ going to have a series of small strong influence on the future of Wary and weary ·of paranoia discussion groups on Tuesday the key points of the report. Talk co.ncerning expulsion from February 22, in HU ll5·. Many . to the AU-College Senators~ NESCAC (S9 WHAT??), I members of the Student Senate ·Students, faculty and submit that even a one-year will be there along with most of administrators. They . will ,be pro.bation imposed upon Union the student delegation to the All- making ·the final decision. The by .NESCAC would be harsh if College Senate. I'd like to invite majority of these Senators have the;Dutchmen did decide to defy any and all other members. of the little knowledge of student its rule. college community to con11!' and opinion and your comments will Jimmy J:edisco -:has given his listen or speak as they see fit. We probably. have ah effect on their a:ll fot four long. yeats, bringing hope that we can synthesize some final decision. fame,. prestige,, and a . g:feat . general consensus- from tl):~se The expression of opinion will bas]fetball team to Union College diseussifitls' ~rl).d then· subfult' a be, in effect, establishing and/ or- and_·~o Schenectady,, New York. written st~p~~e:nt y~, lih~·Stu~_ent . · .e:l}(!J11M··~ofli~'($tu~c;;q~~ PQW.et om;; .Jif.!l~~ 1i~:.a\?-a·~fie:-ilrithel_four team Senate the foi1owing week. issues that ·effee::t ·students. 1:h€- •senr-ors will never forgive Harold Before it makes its decision on opportunity is -open to you. It is C. Martin, who apparently the Freshman Year Report, the youtL .Iesportsib-Hity.;~~lo ·.-take doesn't have the (bleep) to break All-College Senate wants advantage of it.. ' an indefensible rule. feedback from all segments of tl_le ·~'\\ :-Richard A. Siegel, '75 LEAP IN the we-can-do anythiQg~ instantly printing place It's your Goodway Copy Center. Where we print anything. Instantly. Sometimes we say, \Wait just a minute.\ Other times,\Come back tomorrow. Same time.\ How do we do if? Easily. , You give us a camera-ready original. You get as many copies as you want. And they look terrific. What else do we do? We pad, fold, staple, U. ~ \• . -. .. \ •. • 11~ · .. t 'N.E~ · Studeiit= Orchestra • . - .. - •\I . ~; ; r' ~ \'I· . -~ !· ·,~-.~·- To.Perforfn' .. :Wednesday ~.. • . 2 , T\\fenty-six young· musician's ?~c.~estra's largest undertakings from the Northeastern New York 10 1 ts short history. FeatUred on Student Orchestra participa~ed the·! program. :will be the· this past weekend in _the Symphony No. 2 of Jan Sibelius, Suburban Council Music w~wen in 1903. This is a Festival, held this past weekend symphony in the large scope of copy, bind, collate, ·. l}~llil pick up and fiiJ]l'~ ]]])®I deliver. All for 1f' ijl <lilr1\ll1il IS> a very low cost. l.f W~\9 · at Columbia High School in East the words, and is one of Sibelius' Greenbush. Five wind players more popular works. The played with Suburban Council powerful brass choirs help set the Band, under the direction of Mr. vast magnitude of this awesome Donald Mattran, head of Hartt work. Also featured on the College of Music. A total of pro:gram wtll be the combined twenty-one students from the Glee Clubs of Union and orchestra, based at Union, were Skidmore Colleges. They will- participants in the Suburban perform the Ave Verum Corpus Council Orchestra, under the of ., William Byrd under the direction of Dr. Howard direction of Professor Hugh Hanson, the reknowned Alle'h Wilson of the Arts composer and fonrter head of Dev.artment and the Te Deum of Eastman School of Music in Antonin Dvorak with the Rochester. The ·Northeastern orchestra under the direction of New York Student Orchestra the orchestra's conductor, Gary _ takes ·great pride in these young Parks. Also featured as solosits GOOOWR4~~ 1~8-120 Broadway-- Schenectady, New York 12305 musicians and congratulates on the Dvorak work will be them on a job well done. Ruth Lakeway, soprano, and The entire orchestra will Keith Kibler, bass. The concert '-------------4 present its Winter Concert at the will be repeated at Skidmore in College on February 23, at 8:15 College Hall in Saratoga on P.M. in Memorial Chapel. lhe ThU,rsday, February 24, at 8:15 program proves to be one of the P.J\1. THE BEST KELLY'S 501..03 Hattie St. Schenectady,N.Y.12308 r-----~-----~--~-~ ' FERRO ~ : -M· E~ arm acy 1 Phone 346-5059 . ~~- 0... Jaloct ~ .._nell fi7.0S.- to •• I block east _ _ of Richmond (Foster Ave.) . .· S71NiMi SiMer . ' ; . . ' · . · f ~ ..... lltAII~,..~ ... ~-- ... ~ L. ................ ------- _ .............. __.._ .......... ' ·• (' ., •' • 1-' ,.,, '\! ,, ' ;,. . 1 'i '·~·( • .' r~• . ..lli . . :' .~ ' .\ .. -~. . ( l . ! I . ;, : .. .. \\\ -. . ~ l ' . • L~ ~~ . l ! :. rt l ~ j ' l l ! \i ,) I \'\!' j -~ 0-,J :.\ .. ..... ~~'t ~ . } .. . I I

.• ti ,, It\ . :,{ >\ ; '' 'i l . :;.;; .: I .i ... i • . ... 1 ·• . ' ·, ,•, I oil . ' .. l .. , ') .1 ' .~ .. '{. ' ' l t . ' \' . ,, ., .. ·\-\1 .. < ' . • L.., ~~ ' ) 'i :·1 ., 1 \ f i j j 'i ¥.\\~ j , ·~., ' j • 'l ~ 1,. I • r f .... I 01 • )t ~ .j • ' l' J ~; ... ...... f :.t ~ ') . ' ' f I d,.r.;(;r~ • fl · .. , The United Nations: Another View of Purpose by LES GOI .. DMAN Recently, the qu(:stion of what purpose the United Nations serves in the present world order has been discussed in Concordiensis. However, a more realistic attitude should probably be taken on what it ~n and can't do. There is no question that each subsidiary organization as the World Health · Organization serve important and necessary functions. The question, though, is wheth~r i~ is necessary to keep the political section of the United Nation.s viable. At the- present, political crises and wars are not stopped by the United Naticns. It is only when the .. Big Powers\ exert influence on their client states that any political (if only tempQrary) solutions· can be deyeloped, There are too many significant the U.N. has been in helping to achieve disarmament. The Nuclear Test Ban Treaty came from the · 17·member Geneva Disarmament .Confer- ence. It also came about primarily through negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union. This can be seen today in the form of the SALT talks. Here again, it is discussions between · Russia and the U.S. that are determining the \whys and Hows\ o.f disarmament. There is some question of the necessity of the tirp, since they could have done the same thing from New York City at considerably less expense. Realism dictates that we understand what we are giving our support to. There is no re,as·on developmental organizations or health organizations cannot exist .. separately and be funded separately. This is already d.one with the World Bank. Why can't funds be given specifically to . U.N. subsidiary organizations tbat do perform excellently and let the .-est of the organization carry on as best it can? . CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. ,42, 1972 Page 3 ~eed a ride or riders? Then bring this information to WRUC. before 10 P.M. on Wednesday. We wiD take all ride information we receive and air it Thursday . morning at 8:·1 S and again at 9:15. Be sure to include your name, how you can be reached, where you are going, and when you wish so leave. * ... Ill * Graduation announcements are now available at the Student Activities Office. Check with Mrs. Marra. * * * * The Student Social Action Committee's Liberation Films, previously scheduled for tomorrow night, have been CANCELLED. * * * ... The Schenectady PYE club U.J.W. will tour the Environment One ·night. Rathslceilar Sunday facilities this Thursday, in place of the regularly scheduled meeting. Anyone interested in learning more about one of the nation's leading environmental monitoring .concerns is urged to meet in the basement of Silliman Hall at 7 P.M. this Thursday.· (This notice supercedes any previous announcements) * * * * * * * * Professor Helen Horowitz will conduct a Lecture J Discussion on \Women in History\ on Wednesday, February 23 at 7:30 P.M. ihe meeting will take place in Fox Lounge, and will be open to both men and women . * * * * · examples of this to go into tbem aU, but such cases as· the Middle East situation and the India· Pakistan war are obvious. However, when the superpowers decide there is something they don't want to get involved in, such as Biafra, the United Nations can a<;:cotnplish nothing. It is not U.N. resolutions th.at are stopping wars, but balances of power. The U.N.'s impotency as The political wing of the U.N. has become cumbersome and overly expensive. It is cumbersome because every CQUntry from China to the Maldive Republic is represented, in the General Assembly, with ·one vote each. Realistically, tbis is not a good idea as · it only makes the General Assembly meaningless. The. Security Council, as is well known, suffers from th~ difficulty of allowing the use of a veto. What's A _Nice Girl The United Nations is expensive too. Many of the new smaller countries feel that they Doing In A. Place ... by BOB SPERRY a political forum will probably increase in the future because many of the wars that go on today are internal in nature. Thus, the ·U.N. can do nothing when war (or something close to it) breaks out in Northern. Ireland because it is essentially a civil war. The same rationale was· used to prevent the United ,.. Nations from getting involved in .... stopping the Vietnam-war. h;:tve to be represented in the . Everybody on campus seem5 U.N. even though they really to know at least one, and most can't afford it. Furthermore, as guys could probably name of late, some of the members of several. Of course I am speaking the U.N. have discovered of that ·curious phenomenon something that any good United often seen sauntering around the States Congressman has known campus, the Union bitch. They about for years, that ·is the seem to be everywhere these investigative trip at taxpayers', or da.ys, those (at least in their own in this case contributing minds) incredibly .beautiful members• expense. Recently, the youn~ ladies. wearing their Security Council took a trip to unbelievably tight sweaters and Africa to investigate racism and .. slac~s.; . taking infinite delight in colonialism. They took the exhtblttng themselves while Security Colmcil staff along. too.· wearing that fammt.s \look all you want but don't come close .. expression on their faces. · One can question how •, , .... - . . However, in speaking with THE: UNITED. N~TIONS EQUCAnONAL. SCIENTIFIC AND CUlTURAL ORGANIZATION : •· · . : . a q,tclolized agency of the United Nalllms dediC.4ted to peace · $8nlue $1.&ovalue · $&value ..$1it!llr a11 for only $6 ani$. . .. \\ ·THE STUDENT AID SOClf.TY' . a non-profit non-poli~al orgrmiz~ttOn dedicated t(J helping students to ht1P themtelllt$ offer STUDY ABROAD • New 19th Edition • Paris.~. France.l972 • Each copy is trilingual • 644 ... ages in Engtim, French and · Spanish • The most complete SCh!>larship directory in the world lists more tha.n 234,000 schotarshtps, feltowships, toans and grants in more .. than ~~~ cou!'tries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of study .. ftnanctal assistance; HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO ~PP~V~ R.eflects the lat• scholarship approach costed by f1nancial need! · · : ·· : · ·.. . . ,· . . VA'CATION.STUDV ABROAQ .. . ' ' ' ' \ ' • ~ach copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish M<?re and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations,. and an lncreas.ing.p.roportion i~ young Americans! With the price V4r now raging on overseas airfares record-breaking n. urn .. bers of young Amertc'ans wiH surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, .seminars, summer schoels, $Cholarships and travel grants available each year to ~udents, teachers and other young people and adults plannint to undertake study . or. training iJbroa.d du.rin~ their vaeatl~ns. These data were provtded by some 500 orgamzatlons in 54 countrres! · . STUDENT AID SOC I ETV membership dues. Services offered: . .. Scholarship information service. Answe~ questions concerning scholarships worldwide! - • T-ravel servtce. . Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! • Reference Service. Drafts term papers, essays, book rel?orts theses etc frequently ustng primary . sources available' only ih the library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished asdsignmetltsince that woutd deprive the student of valuable \Your referent:e servics saved me much valuable time which I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 · Asand 1 8.\ e ~;~c;ational experienc;:e and ~efeat the very purpose for wnttng for oneself m the· fn•st place. We will provide bi!ckground Information and bibliographies which rank wtth. such tools as t~e College Outline s~,ies and encyclo· ~eq1a reference-ser.v1ces avatlable onlr wtth expensive sets. l1m1t of one draft at small additiona charge., .per semester per student in good standing. We cannot answer any question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor lawyer, architect, engineer, or other· licensed practitioner' no~ can we advise concE!rning your, financial investments: CN, Ann Arbor, Mich \The Vantege Point\ i~, a book put together by 5 ght»t writers and edited Ne1t~r can we undertake mar~et research or surveys or .provtde home study courses . people on campus, 1 get the us would gather after dinner for distinct impression that some a leisurely smoke on the beautiful believe that almost every Union West College trellis and watch female falls into the \bitch\ ·the attempted rapes out on West classification. The reasons for College field. The entire scene this opinion include the feeling before us was one of the funniest that most U-Col coeds are things imaginable. A girl would unfriendly, aloof ego-trippers appear by herself and whose greatest delight in the suddenly, five guys would be world is putting a man down. circling around her like vultures, Because of this belief, l think it's waiting for the opportunity to necessary to divide the supposed swoop in and drag her. away. Union bitches into two Each guy would be jockeying for categories, the \born bitch\ and position, attempting to convince the \bitch out of necessity.\ the hapless victim that he was the The \born bitch\ is the kind of only one with her. girl mentioned in the first And then, after she had paragraph. Happiest when managed to leave unscathed, they showing off their bodies, nothing would stand around as if she had suits them better than to have a kicked their egos (not to mention constant group of four or five their balls) against the hallowed horny guys following them walls of West. Then the everywhere. And for some complaints of ''the nerve of that reason, they never seem to lack fucking bitch\ would drift up to this group of faithful followers. us. On another occasion last fall, 111 classes they tend to wander in my roommate and I were sitting a minute or two after everyone in Rupsi's bar (looking at girls, else is seated, and allowing all we're not saints), when we were present a good, long look, they given the golden oppo~unity to take a front row-center seat, watch a real pig in action. He .Presumably to allow the slowly saunter.staggered across instructor a momentary glance at the bar to the girls in the booth their charms. After observing behind ours and said, them for awhile, and this variety \Hey babes! is numerou~ (or, at least, visible) happening?\ What's enough to make observation rve heard great lines before, easy, I get the distinct impression but 'Hey babes' has to beat them that they have been behaving in all. The best part came about JS this same manner since they were minutes later as the girls politely five years old. And as they will asked 'him to leave. After much probably continue their procrastination, he staggered exhibitionist ways until the day back to his barsiool, making they die, probably the only way such perceptive comments as \the to live sanely among them (as nerve of those fucking bitches.\ everycne here has to do) is to It would be nice to say that the simply ignore them. above examples are exceptions to Tbe second group, however, is the U-Col rule, but unfortunately much more difficult to pin down it appears that they are the rule . than the first. The difficulty The fraternity parties, where each arises in light of the question as frat wants the biggest supply of to whether the \bitches out of young bodies in order to attract necessity\ can be considered the largest number of freshmen, bitches or not. Many (perhaps are the best example of widescale most) of Union's male chauvinism. Hell, sometimes they population would state even import them in from other unequivocally that these women's schools to meet their quotas. sole reason for living is campus- And when some of the women wide castration. If these students balk at being treated like so have any truth on their side, many chunks of meat, that all- however, they should realize that encompassing nickname is if they find themselves jammed down their throats. It's emasculated on a date they true that some Union coeds are probably have only themselves to just naturally. bitchy, but they are blame. I say this because any exceptions. The \bitches out of bitchiness on the part of this necessity\ are not really bitches second group can be traced in the same sense as those born directly to the incredibly to it are, they have simply been chauvinistic attitude held by a forced into a distasteful role by by LBJ. Your reference ~ervlce is almost like m)l own PfJI'$Ofllllghtnt writer. \'' LC, Gaine~v/1/e, Fla. ,----------'-----\--------- 1 good percentage of the 1500 men the men here who refuse to treat : Student Ald. Society, PO Box 39042 1 here. What I am saying, in brief, them as human beings. To end \'The3refel8neebookk 1 Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 200161 is that if most of the women here on my usual moralistic note. of which INtNY6hldent I Gentlemen: J enctese $6 for Study Abroad I act bitchy .. to us, it's because we possibly if everyone on campus needs penonlf t:opltn 1 u • ~ _ ' I life Study AINolld, 11 1 'f'BCBtlon OJ,udy Abroad and annual dues. 1 are purely and simply, pigs. would begin relating to each iood fiict/Om;y .,\ ~Name 1 The lengths many of us will go other on human rather than th,.,ru •. IIIOtll $tO,(JtJ(J I Address I to in order to lay a Union chick superficial (sexist, racist, eic.) f.'v•r I!Cho/.atrhlp frtxn I I ( . I h ~ h Study~\ . 1 City, itate _ , , .. lp l .. or any g1r. anyw ere, or ~ at terms, a lot of the day to day AR arillfle 01/lf. 1 ~, ·· -\ •. ~··· . ·' ... ~ . Z . 'f. · : . · . ,.~It}atter) are almost beyond belief. tension experienced here might 11, _ .... ~ ~.:;, ::2: .ell • ;,,s;. H· ·\-·\- --~. -;-:--;: ~;:-:;-..- .,-;;.:-:-::- .. \'f-·~ ...... _ . ..,..-._\ ' ..... • , .... ~· (, Fa!l·term of -this -year a·gronp ~bf 'df'~raf'peat. - · - - - - · · ·· ·

--- Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 22, '1972 - I .···FINAL EX·AMIN SECOND TERM -1971.1~72 • ·'! 1\ ....... ' J. ;. ;'t- ~· ' Exanjinatio.ti,~:tWill be held in the assigned rooms .. rLis.ted·,,below is -the code of the bu.ildings to he used. \'·· ' . ~ ·- . AR - Arts Building BH - Bailey HaD CH - Carnegie Hall HU -.. Humanities ·Building NW - Science-Engineering Center (North Wing). OC - Old Chapel PY - Psychology Laboratory SS - Social 'Sciences Building SH - Steinmetz HaD MONDAY, MARCH 13 9:00 • 11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Sec. 9 -(Intelligent Life in the Universe) - NW · 222 - Prof. Schick Latin 11 (Principles of Latin) - HU ll9 -· Prof. Reece Economics 145 (Quantitative Methods in Economics II)- SS 010 -Prof. McNamara English 143 (Comedy) - HU 115 - Prof. Niemeyer History 127 (The Development of the American Economy) - SS I 13 - Prof. Finkelstein History 65 (Problems of Political and 'Economic. Development. ·in Modern Latin America)- SS 012 -· Prof. Bnstol · French 132 (A General View of French Liten~ture II) - HU 014 - Prof. Thomas Italian 10 (Introductory Italian)- HU Il7- Prof. Gado Spanish II (Basic Spanish ll) - HU 114 - Mrs. Vinick Political-Science ll (The American Political System) - SS liS - Prof. W. Daniels Political Science 165 (Pol'itics of Metropodtan Areas) - SS 112- Prof. Tidmarch Sociology 162 (Methodology in Sociology I) - SS I 10 - Prof. Nygard Biology 14 (Bi<>logy of Animals -· Core I) -. SS OI6 - Profs. Butterstein, and Roth . Biology 180 (Biochemistry) - SH Hl6 - Prof. Birecka Geology 10 (Physical Geology) -- CH 301 -. Prof. Zimmerman Mathematics 18 (Introduction to Abstract Systems) - Btl 203 -. Prof. Stone . Mathematics 28 (Probability)- BH 201 -Prof. Tornga Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 3- PY 102- Prof. Calabria Psychology 20 (Statistical Methods in Psychology) - PY 113 - Prof. Berthold MONDAY, MARCH 13 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. ll (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) , Sec. 7 - (Introduction to Contemporary Mathematics) - BH 203 - Prof. Fairchild . ' Comp. Ed. 23 (The Second World War Era) - SS liS-. Profs. 8erk, Hansen Comp. Ed. 49 (Varieties of Jewish Beliet) - SS 016 - Rabbi Zimelman .. , .. , Comp. Ed. 67 (Perspectives ~rt Computer ·Languages) - SH 110 - Prof. G. Williams Comp. Ed. 68 (Engineering Control Systems and Cybernetics) - SH 108- Prof. Russ Comp. Ed. 87 (Atomic Energy and Public Policy: The Nature of the Dilemma)- BH 201 -Prof. Pilcher Comp. Ed. 88 (Man Apart) - BH 207 - Prof. George Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 2 - HU 115 - Mr. Bryant German 133 (The German Language in Practical Usei)- HU ll4 - Prof. Warde Physi~s 24 (Statistical Thermodynamics)- NW 222- Prof. Lewis Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec; 4 -· PY H 3 - Prof. Berthold Sec.5-PY213-Mti.Walbek r.(<cl>'it .< 1 \ I j I TUESDAY, MARCH 14 9:00 -11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. ()9 (Materials and Civilization) -· BH 205 - Prof. Eisenstadt Classics 2.3 (History of Rome: The Empire) - SS :016 - Prof. Reece Greek 11 (Principles of Greek II)-. HU 119 -. Prof. Testroet : . Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. I - SS ItS - Prof. Behrens .. Economics ll (Elementary Economics, Part II) Sec. 1-· SS 012- Mr. Pen.o \ EngUsb 15 (Intrcduction to the Study of Literary Forms) - HU I ll6--. Prof. ·Murphy French 12 (Basic French lii) - HU 110 - Prof . .Roberts German:t-o(Basic German I)-. HU H2 -· Mr~ K.rugel' .. Biology 12 (Cell .Biology -. Core II) -;- BH 207 -· · ProJ. Lambert Chemistry 150 (Phy~ical Chemistry I)- BH 312- Prof. J. Daniels Mathematics 171 (Topology II) - BH 104 - Pr<Jf. Behan , Psy~hology 10 (A Fivst Course. in Psychology) .. · Sec. 1 - PY I 02 - Prof. Huntley Sec 2 -· PY 11·1 _,_ tr.r·o·f ·G:o:d· ner.· · · ·. · · · -- · ·' · ''Y ,. · ·~;.·.•·· •• ,,;., • :·· - r· ' ,/: J • ' fll.i ' • • ' 1~ J~ ~t '~ .• I._ J lj f t.z,. ~~,_ '$' _.,:i ,...,.,_.,. _. E.lO (Mechanics)- SH 219 ·-Prof. Shanebrook E. 26 (Thermodynamic~ and Heat T:'tansfer) - SH· ;110 -: Prof. Aubrey . . ·1 . C.E. 144 (Engineering Planning) - CH 201 -· .Prof. Ha.rlcw C.S. 14 ,(I:ntroduction to Cobol and. Qata Processing) -:-. BH 201 -.· Prof. T. Schwarz · tUESDAY, MARCH 14 2:00 - 4:00 P.M. Colnp. Ed. 48 (The Emergence of an Artist) - SS 016 - Prof. Gado Greek 130 (Homer: The Iliad) - HU I-19 -· Prof. Testro.et Chinese U (Basic Chinese II) -· HU 117 -. Prof. Woo Chinese 131 (Modem Chineseiif-· lfO I f7 - Prof. W Clo Chinese 141 (Modern Expository Chinese II) - HU 117 -. Pt~f. Woo Pby~ics 1.1 (Mechanics) (for Biology, Science, and Center I Students) Sec. I- AR 202- Prof. C. D. Swartz Sec. 2- AR 202- Prof. C. D. Swa;rtz E. 11 (Systems, Computers and Design II) · Sec. I - SH IOO- Prof. Driscoll Sec. 2 - SH 106- Prof. Craig· Sec. 3 - CH 304- Prof. Male Sec. 4 --- s:R 101 - Prof. Eisenstadt I \VEI)NESDAY, MARCH 15 9:GO ·11:00 A.M. Economies 139 (Public Finance)-. SS 016- Pr()f. l{e'rman·· Russian 131 (Introduction to Russian Literatllre) -· HU 119 - Prof. Weston. t ., Chemktry 12 (Fundamental ChemistrY II) Sec. 1- NW 100- Prof. Werner · Sec. 2 ~ AR 202 - Prof. Maycock) Sec. 3 - BH 312 - Prof. Schaefer Sec. 4 - BH 312 -Prof. Schaefer : Chemistry 32 (Organi-c Chemistry II) ', Sec. I - AR 202 - Prof. Maycock r Sec. 2 - BH 207 - Prof. Sowa l Chemistry 164 (Polymer Chemistry II)·- NW 222 -· Prof. Sheffer Physics 121 (Physics of the Atmosphere) -· BH I04 - Prof, Hooverman Physics 142 (Application of Quantum Mechanics) - BH 102'- Prof. Titus C.S. 131 (Algorithmic Languages and Compilers) .._ S'H 108 - Mr. R. Daniel · · \ Q v. !·' I .. ., t) ... '· .: -· . ! ., I u ·~ ,,

CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 22. 1972 Page 5 * .N 4; . . Tio-w·.·sCBEDULE i,~ :1 - '~ I: I '· ~ ... !· • ! ' u l d i .• ..., ?:.·~ • ' . 'J (......, • ~. \ ; .. Conflicts m examinations should be reported -to Mrs. DeGroff in the Office of the Registrar not later; than Monday, March 6, 1972 \ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15 . ~:00 .. 4:00 p ·~· ,Comp. Ed. 47 (Religions of the World)- SS 016- Rev. Garvin · Art 21 (Problems in Art II) - AR 202 - Mrs. Bittleman Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) Sec. 2- SS 014- Prof. J. E. Smith I. Economics 137 (History of Economic Thought)- SS 010- Prof. Thimm ·, Economics 144 (International Economics) - SS 113 - Prof. Behrens · Engtish 123 (The Modern American Novel) - HU liS -. Prof. Gado ' ·, 1 , 1. History 131 (Medieval Foundations of Western Society) -i.:- SS 012 - Prof. N. Allen ; French 142 (The Age of Voltaire}-' HU 114 - Prof. Le·(Uerc French 61 (The Individual in Crisis in French Literature) . .J__ HU 114 - Prof. Le Clerc · . · Russian 11 (Basic Russian U) .;...,._ HU 014 -· Prof. We$ton•).· Political Science 161 (Public.· Administration) -· SS 11.7 -· · Prof. Underwood -· . Soeiology lO (Human Society 1)•-lU.t'SS-ll:Z..:.:.. Prof. Qra:cey · · Statistics 10 (Introduction) ~ · )~ · Sec. 2 .:.!..: BH\20 1 - Prof. Riotilief · · · · · · I.A. 151 (Fundamentals of Behavioral Science I) -. HU 110 - Prof. Griesinger · ·: · -; ·, : Psychology 24, (Social Psychology) -· PY 113 - Prof. Cll'~bria ; ,.. { ~ . ·~. . ;'.;. ,..., ' ' ' THURSD;AY, MARCH 16 . r-t· 9:00.'~'.11:00 A.M. \\~ Comp. Ed. ll (Freshman Commons· in Science and Engineering) Sec.- 8 -. (Crystals, Waves, and Particles)- NW 222 - Prof. f.,ewis \ Economics 13l'(Microecononiic Analysis) Sec. 2- SS 012 - Mr. Peno · Economics .142 (Macroeconomic Theory and Policy) -· SS o 14 - Prof. J.-E. Smith . Englisb 13-(M-ajor American Authors) - HU 115 -·Prof .. Niemeyer English 153 (Studies in Shakespeare)----- HU 11.6- Prof. Murphy History 138 (Conservatism., Liberalism and Socialism· in the Late 19th Century Europe) - SS Ill-:-- Prof. Hansen French 11 (Basic French II)-· .. HU ()14.-- P.rof. Thomas , Gerlilan 11 (Basic German 11) -· HU U4- Prof. Warde,. . \ Phil~~phy 12 (Philosophical iProblems)- SS 016 ..,..._Prof. Ludwig Accounting10 (Accounting_ Principles)- OC- Mr. Roy, · Biology 15 (Continuity of Life - Core IV) - BH 207 .....___ Profs. Hutzel and Dalgleish . Biology 149 (Biophysical Aspects of Cell Physiology) - BH 205 - Prof. Lambert · · Chemisliy 10 (Fundamental Chemis~r.y I) Sec; 1 - NW 100 --- Pr.of. Werner Sec. 2- NW 116- Prof. Schaefer Mathematics 138 (Multivar~able Ca~culus I) - BH 104 - Prof. Maddaus Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) -. AR 202 - Prof. Graves Psychology 38 (Child Psychology)- PY 113- Mrs. Walbek E. 24 (Electric and Magnetic Circuits) - SH 110 - Prof. Craig C.E.lOS (Enviornmental Engineering I)- CH 305- Prof. Sykes E.E .. 32 (Ana-lysis of Electronic Devices)- BH 201 -. Prof. Gajjar E.E. 143 (Electromagnetic Theory)- SH 100- Prof. Drisco¥:- i • , .a \' THURSDAY, MARCH 16 2:00 • 4:00 P.M. Economics 131 (Microeconomic Analysis) Sec. l - SS H 7- Mr. Hoiska History 158 (Russia in the Imperial Age)- SS 115- Mr. Berk Hebrew 11 (Basic Hebrew II)- HU 016- Mr. Welkovics Spanish 131 (Introduction to Spanish-American Literature) - H U II 6 - Mrs. Astiz Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic)- HU 115- Prof. Peterson Sociology 12 (Huma~ Society II)- SS 113- Prof. Nygard Biology lSO{Evolutionary Biology)-· -BH 312- Prof. Dalgleish Biology 170 (General and Comparative Endocrinology) - NW 100 - Profs. Butterstein, Roth Physics 17 (Principles of Modern Physics ll) - SH 106 - Prof. Schick E. 30 (Mechanics of Deformable Solids) Sec. 1 - SH liO -· Prof. Panlilio · Sec. 2- CH 201- Mr. Pikul C.S. 12 (Fortran Programming) - BH 207 - Profs. Hartwig. Zavisca C.S. 22 (Numerical Methods for Computers) -- BH 201 - Prof. Roulier FRIDAY; ·MARCH 17 9:00 • 11:00 A.M. Biology 156 (Animal.Organogenesis)- NW 100- Prof. Rappaport Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec. 1 - BH 106 - Prof. T ornga Sec. 2 - BH I 08 - Prof. Behan Mathematics l2 (Calc~.!lus II) Sec. 1 - BH I 04 - Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2- BH 312- Prof. Bick Sec. 3 - AR 202 - Prof. Leach Sec. 4 - AR 2()2 -· · Prof. Gillette Sec. 5 - BH 20 I -, Prof. Loughlin Sec. 6 - BH 203 - Prof. Stone Sec. 7 - BH 207 - Prof. Leschen Mathematicsl4 (Calculus III) Sec. 1- AR 202- Prof. Gillette Sec. 2 - BH 205 - Prof. Seiken Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Sec. l -· AR 202 - Prof. Leach Sec. 2 - BH 207 - Prof. Leschen Mathematics 32 (Abstra.ct Algebra I) Sec. 1 - BH 201 - Prof. Loughlin Sec. 2- BH 102- Prof. Fairchild \ Physics 133 (Electricity and Magnetism II) - SH JOI - Prof. W. Schwarz · Psychology 35 (Organizational Psychology) -· SS 016 - Pr~f:. Graves FRIDAY, MARCH 17 Z:OO • 4:00 P.M. 'History 176 (Modern Japan)- SS l (5- Prof. Thurston Statisties 10 (Introduction) Sec. 1- SS 117-. Mr. Hoiska Mathematics 137 (Real Variable Theory II) - BH 106 -. Prof. Bick Physics 11 (Mechanics) (for Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics and. Engineers) Sec. I - B H 20 1 -. Prof. Jones Sec~ 2 -- BH 104 - Prof. Titus E .. 2Z {Science of Engineering Materials)- NW 100- Prof. Potter C.E. 31 (Engineering Design)- CH 306- Prof. C. Williams C.E. 133 (Structural Steel Design)- CH 305- Mr. Pikul C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering) - CH 201 - Prof. Harlow E.E. 14~, (Energy Conversion and Power Electronics)- SH 219 - Prof. Ingvarsson ~: :·, , F . • 11 . 1 · ~ .! (. -- · . 1 I· ~

Page 6 CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 22,. 1972 . West Argyle by PJJ;TE TORPEY The western \quadrant of the planetoid of Argyle is inhabited by Gylons who live there mainly out of necessity. They find that it is not economically feasible or desirable to live on other parts of Argyle where the inhabitants enjoy much higher standards of living. If it was possible to migrate to, say, either North Argyle, or further south, the West Gylons surely would ... for, how many would remain behind in what is called by some the \slums of Argyle?\ private complaints. Meanwhile,· any grievances received from other parts of Argyle were immediately responded to so that the Gylons were satisfied. The West Gylons became increasingly annoyed .at the Torncolons and dissatisfied . with their ·helpless position. The tensions were slowly mounting, and the West Gylons were beginning to consider mass action as the only alternative to their situation. Continued frorn Pag~ 1 added, . \that the Communist regime is a ·temporary phenomenon.\ History shows, he c<;>ntin1,1ed, that the deeply-rooted Chinese cultural tradition ··has always prevailed in the long run, and the Chinese have always rejected· attempts to · impose regimes based on an \alien' 1 philosophy. Chen said that recent events in China ·show that the Chinese are not in permanent control of.the nation. tit claimed, \intend to use their 'il nuclear power as an instrument of blackmail.\ Again · emp~asizing the instability of · th~ Communist ll regime, he pointed out that there is no apparent le.ader ill China who can repla~ Mao. ·Chou En Lai \h~s neither the backing of : the Army, nor the Party.~· Liu. Hsiao Chi has been \removed.\·· Lin Piao has been \liquidated.\ In the past; Doctor Chen's own country has been accused of The large differences in the living standards ·Of the Gylons are not the fault of the people of Argyle. Rather, the beings of the third planet, Torncol, are to blame. Through the unfair and discriminatory policies which they surreptitiously pursue, the Torncolons (as they are called) manage to divide and promote further disharmonies among the masses of the beings of Argyle. Until only a short while ago, the Torncolons were free to pursue their own policies. They would, for reasons known only to themselves, ignore the varied and numerous problems of West Argyle, even in view of numerou-: Then, the great political and social commentator of West Argyle, Broret Pryser, publicly brought to light the plight of his people, broadcasting his message of misery and deprivation among the West Gylons due to the beings of T orncol over all the available means of communication. He meant only to · make known the injustices done to the West Gylons, his people. However, Broret Pryser's message had an unexpectedly profound effect. particular jnstances of neglect on . the part · of th~ Torncolons brought immediate reply. B~ing embarrassed to admit of such ·shortcomings to the whole Gylon community and the other neighboring planets of the Solar System, the beings of Torncol began work on reconstructing West·Argyle. This new rebuilding plan was SQ extensive and swift- coming tJ.tat the West Gylons could not believe that it was merely coincidental With the well• made criticisms of their great Broret Pryser, although the beings of Torncol tried to lead people to believe .that the situation would have been .:orrected anyway. \Now that the Communists are in ihe U.N., it is for all the world to judge; whether their presence will contribute t·o world cooperation. and peace.\ Chen said that \Mao's men\ want to use the U.N. as a tool. He said that the Communists will lobby for <;omplete severance of American ties with Taiwan, and maintaining an oppressive regime ' ..,_;;;,.; that denies \its people certain .e f. <2 The beings of T orncol, up to this point, only had to deal with privately made accusations on a small scale. But, now, their once- concealed discriminatory poliCies against the West Gylons were made public for all to see. Broret Pryser's exposition of several DEWITT'·s Cafeteria and Tap Room fine Food and legal Beverages 118 • 120 JAY STJe'f SELLS GREAT FLAIRS BY LEE Lafayette Clothes - 416 State St. Cagers Crush Hamilton Continued from Page 1 Hamilton'~ Dou~ Wright . added 24 point~ and swept up ~1 · r-ebounds. Hts total mcludes 20 second-half talltes, 10 of those fr\m the charity stripe. Hence, for a while at leas1, the Torncolons will be responsive to the complaints of the West Gylons .. . most likely, until public pressure wears off. Then, the beings of Torncol will most likely go back slowly toward their old policy of neglect of West Argyle and its inhabitants, until another representative of the Gylons, the equal of Broret Pryser, steps forward and decides, again,· to publicly denounce the Torncolons. ~<Q>~ 'there wiU be an organizational meeing of the Union College Debate Society, the Philomat~eans, ou Thursday, Feb. 24, m Hale House Lounge. All are invited to attend. For . information, call Harry Lessin at 346-9590. Creative Framing Original Graphics Posters ARTISTS' SUPPLY l63Jay St. THE PEANUT STORE· Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED . PEANUTS ·a U.S. surrender in Viet-Nam. Doctor Chen emphasized that the Western world \should not be tak~n in by smiles. No attempt . at persuasion or show .of good will can have any effect. It is futile to try and appease the Communists, For them, the ends justify any me~J:ns. · ''The Commul)ist Chinese,\ Che.n basic liberties• However; Chen 'i, said that \the people enjoy the freedom to criticize. Severe criticism .often appears in • • ''!;. newspapers and magazines.\ The • ,l._,.; people also have the freedom and 1 1 ~ opportunity to participate in the · 1 _ ~.i\~. go:vernment. Taiwan, he said,. is 1,';\ ''dedicated to restoring freedom ~~ .... ·.·.··~··· .. ·.·.'· •.. to the people in mainland .. China.\ It ill a crusade, he added, • 1 1 -· to maintain the Chinese way of r .·· life. Doctor Chen concluded that i '} \unless a stable regime is restored • ~.·•· ···~.·.:.·.:.· to the mainland, the world · ' lt.:· cannot ~xpect to live in peace \' and security.\ ·• t·J ! ·~ ...• . '. ~ SPQING TERM COURSE ERRATA. Additions to spring term offerings: 1032 Comp Ed 32 f>; i 1 I .1 1214 Art 14 1411 Drama 11 1432 Drama 32 1441 Drama 41 2234 Latin 134 2450 Economics 150 2821 History 121 4210 Political Science 10 5140 Biology,140 · . 5185 Biology 185 (New Course.: . Introduction to Modern Biophysics (Permis~;ion of department required.) Deletions from sprlng-1erm offerjngs: -· · · · · - · . 103.1 CQmp Ed 31 .. •1215. Aft 15· 2240 Latin 140\ 2625 English 12$. 281$ History ·113 28.20 History 120 4443 Sociology 143 Already closed courses; 1034 Comp Ea 34 ...... 2449 EconoRiics 149 {changed to spring from fall) Engineer-s T:ake Frosh Win Skein Ends at Five R.P .I. then stretches its second- half lead to 40-25, enabling them to sag defensively. • • i 11 .. ~\ :i{ )j ;t.' .j/f ,···:§ Even the cries of \N!C!A!A!\ coUldn't ruin this night, February 21, 1972, the culmination as well as the climax of a great college career by the little guy, Jimmy T edisco. TlJTO. RING AND GUIDANCE~ by FRANK DeLUCIA What could have been billed as a match-up between two solid clubs, each with 6 game winnir,tg r------ .................. ___ ....,. streaks, was reduced to a mis .. match in Friday night's 6441 Suffering from a decisive height disadvantage, the Freshmen could muster only a sporadic offense. FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 • •• don't think the treullle witb God is God. the trouble with God is people.~~ If you've got something to say .about God, we'll give you a li!etime t!l say it ... as a Priest in the Albany Diocese, We re lookmg for hard-core human beings, Contact: Fr. Bill Ryan 40 No. Main Avenue Albany, N. Y. 12203 4,82·5562 SINCE 1938- ~ MCAT • DAT · LSAT- ATGSB GRE · * Preparation for tests required for · admission to graduate and profes- sional schools • Sh< and twelve session courses • Small groups *Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field· \Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet indlvidual needs. Lessons can be spread over a period of several months to a year, or for out of town students, a period of one week *Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the cen.ter Special Compact Courses during Weekends- lntersessions Summer Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATiONAL CENTER LTD. '0\~'~\*'\-·\·' ~-,; ... (212) 336-5300 :t:: (516) 538-4555 - . ' . h DAYS, EVENINGS. WEEKENDS ~ Branches in principal cities in u.s. The Tutorins School with tht> Nationwide Reputation Yearling defeat. . With big Charlie Gugliotta sitting passively on the bench, his foot broken, the tall 9-1 vistors from Troy made the Union Freshmen .play catch-up all night. Bob Pfifferling kept the Garnet close with 7 first half points for a 28-27 halftime Engineer lead. SPECIAL DISCOUNT To Union Students GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street Balanced scoring saw Bob Pfifferling lead the way with 9 followed by Jack Comerford with 8 and Keviri Crawford and Barry Roff with six apiece. The Dutchmen were outgunned .at the charity stripe, also, 20-7. LAFAYETTE Radio • Electromcs associate ttores of SEIDEN SOUND, INC. 141 £de aiYcl. , db TeL.MUlll V ' Sdl'df,,N.Y. lllftnt SEND TODAY. FOR FREE CATALOG ON YOUR SEMESTER AT SEA Academic Credit. Financial aid available. WCA, Chapman College, Box CC11, Orange, Cal. 92666 •· ~, 'J

Page 6 CONCORD!ENSIS, Feb. 22, 1972 West Argyle Taiwan-'s Future by PETE TORPEY The western ·'quadrant of the planetoid of Argyle is inhabited by Gylons who live there mainly out of necessity. They find that it is not economically feasible or desirable to live on other parts of Argyle where the inhabitants enjoy much higher standards of living. If it was possible to migrate to, say, either North Argyle, or further south, the West Gylons surely would ... for, how many would remain behind in what is called by some the \slums of Argyle?\ The large differences in the living standards of the Gylons are not the fault of the people of Argyle. Rather, the beings of the third planet, Torncol, are to blame. Through the unfair and discriminatory policies which they surreptitiously pursue, the Torncolons (as they are called) manage to divide and promote further disharmonies among the masses of the beings of Argyle. Until only a short while ago, the Torncolons were free to pursue their own policies. They would, for reasons known only to themselves, ignore the varied and numerous problems of West Argyle, even in view of numerou-_ pnvate complaints. Meanwhile, any grievances received from other parts of Argyle were immediately responded to so that the Gylons were satisfied. The West Gylons became incr.easi,ngly annoyed at the Torncolons and dissatisfied with their helpless position. The tensions were slowly mounting, and the West Gylons were beginning to consider mass action as the only alternative to their situation. Then, the great political and social commentator of West Argyle, Broret Pryser, publicly brought to light the plight of his people, broadcasting his message of misery and deprivation among the West Gylons due to the beings of Toracol over all the a vai Ia ble rn eans of communication. He meant only to make known the injustices done to the West Gylons, his people. However, Broret Pryser's message had an unexpectedly profound effect. The beings of T orncol, up to this point, only had to deal with privately made accusations on a small scale. But, now, their once- concealed discriminatory policies against the West Gylons were made public for all to see. Broret Pryser's exposition of several DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine food and Legal Beverages 118-120 JAY~ SELLS GREAT FLAIRS BY LEE Lafayette Clothes - 416 State St. Cagers Crush Hamilton Continued from Page 1 Hamilton's Doug Wright added 24 points and swept up ~I rebounds. His total includes 20 second-half tallies, 10 of those fr0m the charity stripe. particular instances of neglect on the part of the Torncolons brought immediate reply. Being embarrassed to admit of such shortcomings to the whole Gylon community and the other neighboring planets of the Solar System, the beings of T orncol began work on reconstructing West Argyle. This new rebuilding plan was so extensive and swift- coming t,llat the West Gylons could not believe that it was merely coincidental with the well- made criticisms of their great Broret Pryser, although the beings of Torncol tried to lead people to believe that the situation would have been ~orrected anyway. Hence, for a while at least, the Torncolons will be responsive to the complaints of the West Gylons ... most likely, until public pressure wears off. Then, the beings of T orncol will most likely go back slowly toward their old policy of neglect of West Argyle and its inhabitants, until another representative of the Gylons, the equal of Broret Pryser, steps forward and decides, again, to publicly denounce the T orncolons. ~~.q.e.q,.q..q.~ There will be an organizational meeing of the Union College Debate Society, the Philomat~eans, op Thursday, Feb. 24, m Hale House Lounge. All are invited to attend. For information, call Harry Lessin at 346-959@. Creative Framing Original Graphics Posters ARTISTS' SUPPLY 163 Jay St. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS Continued from Page 1 added, \that the Communist regime is a temporary phenomenon.\ History shows, he continued, that the deeply-rooted Chinese cultural tradition has always prevailed in the long run, and the Chinese have always rejected attempts to impose regimes based on an \alien\ philosophy. Chen said that recent events in China show that the Chinese are not in permanent control of the nation. \Now that the Communists are in the U.N., it is for all the world to judge whether their presence will contribute to world cooperation. and peace.\ Chen said that \Mao's men\ want to use the U.N. as a tool. He said that the Communists will lobby for complete severance of American ties with Taiwan, and a U.S. surrender in Viet-Nam. Doctor Chen emphasized that the Western world \should not be taken in by smiles. No attempt at persuasion or show of good will can have any effect. It is futile to try and appease the Communists. For them, the ends justify any means. \The Communist Chinese,\ Chen claimed, \intend to use their nuclear power as an instr1:1ment of blackmail.\ Again emphasizing the instability of the Communist regime, he pointed out that there is no apparent leader in China who can replace Mao. Chou En Lai \has neither the backing of the Army, nor the Party.\ Liu Hsiao Chi has been \removed.\ Lin Piao has been \liquidated.\ In the past' Doctor Chen's own country has been accused of maintain.ing an oppressive regime that denies ··its people certain basic liberties. However, Chen said that \the people enjoy the freedom to criticize. Severe cntiCism often appears in newspapers and magazines.\ The people also have the freedom and opportunity to participate in the government. Taiwan, he said, is \dedicated to restoring freedom to the people in mainland China.\ It is a crusade, he added, to maintain the Chinese way of life. Doctor Chen concluded that \unless a stable regime is restored to the mainland, the world cannot expect to live in peace and security.\ SPRING TERM COURSE ERRATA Additions to spring term offerings: 1032 Camp Ed 32 1214 Art 14 1411 Drama I I 1432 Drama 32 1441 Drama 41 2234 Latin 134 2450 Economics 150 2821 History 121 4210 Political Science 10 5140 Biology 140 5185 Biology 185 (New Course: Introduction to Modern Biophysics (Permission of department required.) Deletions from spring term offerings: 1031 Comp Ed 31 1215 Art 15 2240 La tin 140 2625 English 125 2813 History 113 2820 History 120 4443 Sociology 143 Already closed courses: 1034 Comp Ed 34 2449 Economics 149 (changed to spring from fall) Engineers Take Frosh Win Skein Ends at Five R.P .I. then stretches its second- half lead to 40-25, enabling them to sag defensively. by FRANK DeLUCIA What could have been billed as a match-up between two solid clubs, each with 6 game winning ,-------------- ... streaks, was reduced to a mis- Even the cries of \N !C! A! A!\ couldn't ruin this night, February 21, 1972, the culmination as well as the climax of a great college career by the little guy, Jimmy Tedisco. TUTOR lNG AND GUIDANCE~ SINCE1938 ~ match in Friday night's 64-41 Yearling defeat. Suffering from a decisive height disadvantage, the Freshmen could muster only a sporadic offense. FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 ••• don't think the trouble with God is God. The trouble with MCAT ·OAT LSAT-ATGSB GRE *Preparation for tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools *Six and twelve session courses • Small groups *Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field With big Charlie Gugliotta sitting passively on the bench, his foot broken, the tall 9-1 vistors from Troy made the Union Freshmen play catch-up all night. Bob Pfifferling kept the Garnet close with 7 first half points for a 28-22 halftime Engineer lead. SPECIAL DISCOUNT To Union Students GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE 509 State Street Balanced scoring saw Bob Pfifferling lead the way with 9 followed by Jack Cumerford with 8 and Kevin Crawford and Barry Roff with six apiece. The Dutchmen were outgunned at the charity stripe, also, 20-7. LAFAYETTE Radio • Electronics associate stores of SEIDEN SOUND, INC. t.ct Erie Blvd. ./ wiib Td. 346-lilll first Scb'df., N.Y. US ., • l} '! • ' ' . ,.h • . ~ .. .. ... I' • God is people.~~ * Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet indLvidual needs. Lessons can be spread over a period of several months to a year, or for out of town students, a period of one week • If you:ve got so~ething to say. about God, we'll give you a hfehme to say 1t ••• as a Pr1est in the Albany Diocese We're looking for hard-core human beings. ' Contart: Fr. Bill Ryan 40 No. '\lain Avt·nue Albany, N.Y. 12203 'I82·5562 •Opportunity for ~eview of past lessons via tape at the center Special Compact Courses during Weekends- lntersessions Summer Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 1675 Eas116th Stroot Brooklvn. N V .9'~ fi (212) 336-53oo L_:!. (516) 538-4555 ~ l~ DAYS ~VFNINGS WEEKENDS ~ Branch~ in principal cities in U.S. Thi! Tutunn~Sclwol wrth lhP NatlunwuJp Ri!putatwn SEND TODAY FOR FREE CATALOG ON YOUR SEMESTER AT SEA Academic Credit. Financial aid available. WCA, Chapman College, Box CC11, Orange, Cal. 92666

tit J' their f,t the 'I there China En of Liu. of Chen the s .in \ The and the IS of that red peace the a 9 • • • ,. If r': •· c 0 ·• /Jimmy Shoots, Jimmy Tedisco, appearing to be part of an acrobatic high-wire act, scores one. of his. season high 41 points; ~ellow co ... captain and roommate Bol:l Pezzano looks on. t ' •' _r . ' .. .. CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 22, 1972 Page 7 Dutchman Watches Bob Rydings, in his Dutchman outfi~ appears happy over progress of Hamilton game. \Ba-ba\ Bob fired a near '21 cannon salute' for the victorious Dutchmen cagers. (Photo by Jon Philipson) • Co-captains Jimmy T~disco and Bob Pezz~o cut .down the net~ to .symbolize successful season. Cagers set consecutive win record as ftve semors played m their home finale, (Photo cour- basy of Ed Schultz, Gazette)

their the t there China En of \ Liu of Chen the in n the id, is of that red nd- a 9 pe, I . \' II \1 I .i \' l' f: ~. I, ·~~=· • ''I l '! ~ \ ... ~. ~ • It .. .. ' . f' .. • • - • ., !r •• . ' Jimmy Shoots Jimmy Tedisco, appearing to be part of an acrobatic high-wire act, scores one of his season high 41 points; l<'ellow co-captain and roommate Bob Pezzano looks on, CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 22, 1972 Page 7 Dutchman Watches Bob Rydings, in his Dutchman outfit appears happy over progress of Hamilton game. \Ba-ba\ Bob fired a near '21 cannon salute' for the victorious Dutchmen cagers. (Photo by Jon Philipson) Co-captains Jimmy Tedisco and Bob Pezzano cut down the nets to symbolize successful season Cagers set consecutive win record as five seniors played in their home finale, (Photo cour~ tesy of Ed Schultz, Gazette)

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, Feb. 22, 1972 Concordy Sports JIMMY BOWS OUT IN STYLE Coach Gary Walters with arms around his two proud co-captains. Two minutes remained on clock. (Cour- tesy of Ed Schultz, Schenectady Gazette) by MARK MINDEL ··And at the other guard position, number 14, co-captain JIMMY TEDISCO!\ rang loud and clear for the final time at Memorial Fieldhouse Monday night. Never again will the 5'7\ Little All-American don the white and garnet uniforms numbered 14 and 15 to lead his team in battle. Never again will 3500 people rise to cheer as one to show their appreciation for the holder of every conceivable scoring and assist mark in the 73 year history of the sport at Union. Never again will the greatest basketball player in Union College history and one of the finest guards ever to play in New Y ark State drive opposition coaches and players wild with his bizarre long-range jumpers, his unstoppable drives, or his uncanny passwork. And he bowed out in what was to ma!ly if not all oberservers the greatest performance they ever witnessed, and their greatest thrill as a spectator. Coach Walters, the man responsible for making Jimmy into the complete ballplayer, gave his captain a twenty minute reprieve from his team duties, and Jimmy put on the greatest one man show since Was hi ngt on crossed the Delaware .. Now Jimmy is used to bowir.1g out in style. At Bishop Gibbons High he threw in 55 points in his finale to earn a spot in Sports Illustrated's \Faces In the Crowd.\ But his incredible Mats Place Fourth Howie Only Winne.r The Union College Grapplers went to Rochester for the State Meet a week prior to the hoop team's visit there, and after finishing fourth in a field of eight teams were snowed in for two nights. As it was. only Howie Benedict came away with an individual championship, with a 40 second pin in the finals. as Mark Zullo and Pat Wardell came away with runner-up titles. Grabbing third place laurels were lightweight Alan Calabro and 158 pounder Gary Gurney, with 142 man Larry Dagastino garnering fifth, and 150 pounder Jeff White rec-eiving a sixth place point. Both 126 pounder Zullo and fellow sophomore heavyweight Benedict recorded two pins on their way to the finals. Zullo was beaten 12-1 by his old nemesis, Tom Pearse of R.I.T. for only his third loss of the season. In fact, dismissing his three losses to either Ken or Tom Pearse, Mark has only lost two matches as a Union College grappler. Wardell was 'robbed' of another tournament win, when the referee reversed his decision to award Pat two points for a takedown (several Garnet wrestlers felt he should have been given two more for a near fall), and Pat was awarded nothing. A stunned 177 pounder went on to lose 2-0. Meanwhile Howie was enjoying himself oil his way to· another routine championship, as he hardly raised a drop of sweat in his four matches. Howie is still undefeated at 18-0, while Zullo is 13-3. The wrestlers entertain Rochester, who placed third in the meet, Wednesday in Alumni Gym. March 3rd and 4th, Benedict, Zullo, Wardell, and Calabro will travel to the N.C.A.A.'s where they will represent the Garnet individually, in accordance with the now famed NESCAC ruling. Barring another barrage of snoW, Howie should finally be matted with someone who knows how to wrestle. by MIKE MESEROLE The line of spectators out in back of t:he Memorial Fieldhouse stretched endl:-ssly into the frosty night. It was only 7:30 and the Hne was getting longer. Inside, the grandstands were slowly .filling up and the roof was leaking. By eight o'clock, the house was full but people were still piling through the doors. Art Lawrence and his cigar couldn't sell the tickets fast enough. On the court, the Union and Hamilton basketball teams were taking their final warm-ups while Archie Bell and the Drells tightened up over the public address system. Just to the left of the Union end of the playing floor, three wide-eyed, sub-teen girls watched very attentively as the Garnet went through their pregame motions. \There's Jimmy.\ \Which one?\ \The littlest one.\ \Oh yeah.\ \Wow he's terrific, isn't he?\ \He sure is.\ Like the three girls, the four thousand other people who had found their way into the fieldhouse by then, .. were there because Jim Tedisco was terrific. And after three varsity years of thrills, they wanted .to see him be terrific one more time in the last home game -of his outstanding college career. He didn't let them down. In a game that saw Union crush Hamilton, llO to 79, for their fourteenth straight victory and a season mark of 18-2, Tedisco turned in a virtuoso performance of slick ballhandling and deft shooting that left Coach Gary Walters shaking his head afterwards in disbelief, commenting, \he did everything but strip out there.\ Seniors Start Garne Joining Tedisco in the starting line-up wen~ the four other Seniors on the team, who were all playing . in their final home game as well; Bob Pezzano, Rein Eichinger, Rich Goldberg, and fieldhouse favorite Joel Roslyn. Of the four, co- captain Pezzano was the high man, with six points, two stuffs and some nifty, crowd-pleasing plays with co-captain Tedisco for old time's sake. But in the end, the night belonged to Jimbo. At halftime, with Union in front 48'..24, Tedisco had just nine points. In the locker room between halves, Walters gave him the word, \hit 30 and I'll unleash you.\ In the second half, Jimmy T. went berserk, scoring 32 points from everywhere on the court a11d • • • • • • performance last night can not be topped, 41 points, all but nine in the second half, nine beautiful assists, and an uncountable number of artistic dribbling exhibitions, which would put ·Barnum and Bailey's circus act to shame. From the stands, one witnessed the excitement generated as soon as T edisco put his hands on the ball. I am sure Jimmy knew the reason everyone packed the fieldhouse, perhaps more so than ever before - they came to see him play, and play at his maximum. No one was disappointed in the least. To rrie, his greatest feat Monday was his bucket which gave the Dutchmen their one hundredth point of the night. It was a superior, totally dedicated move which no one could have stopped, as he dribbled through three Continentals and using every ounce of energy left in his tired body arched a long jumper which everyone in the house knew would go in. When it did the place exploded, and the bench, which itself had become a spectator, leaped higher in the air than ever before. stopping th!! show with ballhandling antics that had to be seen to be believed. One of the thousands who watched Tedisco's superior moves and still couldn't believe them was Hami:lton's freshman flash, Mark Badger, who has been tabbed by many as the next Jim 'Fedisco. In a battle of the high scorers, Badger, who had 25 ,points on. the night, was never r.eally in it. Although he occasionally connectt:d from long distance, on (lefense there was no way he <:ould stop Tedisco. Many times it looked as though Jimmy· was deliberately dribbling the ball toward Badger and then blowing right by him w~th seemingly little ~rt~~ll~~~a~®~~~~m~ for the youngster. \Gividda Jimbo!\ With each. rush down the court to the Hamilton basket, and each incredible behind-the-back pass and flying-through-the-air lay up, the roaring of the crowd mounted. With six minutes remaining in the contest, and the game safely won, Union went to Tedisco on almost every play. \Gividda Jimbo!\ became the chant from the stands, and when Jimbo got the ball it seemed impossible for him to miss. With 3:25 le:f.t, an unreal triple pump lay up sent Union into three figures and the stands exploded. Wal~ers took Jirn out of the game and the delirious home town crowd showered their boy with a three and a half minute standing ovation, that didn't subside until Walters put him back in. Then with 50 seconds left to go, Tedisco left the game for good with 41 points and the Union benc,!Lemptied. to congratulate him. It was an amazing scene, the game was still in progress but Coach Walters was posing for pictures with Tedisco and Pezzano in the middle of the court. · After the garne, in a brief ceremony, Union College officially canonized Bishop Gibbons' blessing on the Garnet sports faithful, and retired Jim Tedisco's uniform after three record-shattering, unforgetUlble seasons. In those three years, Jim Tedisco. and Company have probably done more on the basketball court to make this campus feel a sense of pride and togetherness than anyone else. And hopefully, when next year's captains cut down the winning basket at the end of the sea~on, the \N-C-A-A\ chant in the background· will be for real. But it was merely A happy Jim Tedisco poses with honors he recei:ved representative of the Jimmy from WGY and sports department. Unif6rrn 14 was ~edisco of ~he s~cond half, the retired in Jim's honor. (Schultz) Jimmy Ted1sco m any clutch . situation, the Jimmy Tedisco of ~e.O'>~<.b>~~~~~0'>'<1!/> the past four years at Union being only t~e se.cond at~lete 1 saw him play in high school College. . ever to have h1s umform retued. and in college last year and I'm And when he left the floor to · but he deserves so much more for impressed with his off the court th.e longest standing ovation that what he has given us. · activities. He's a gentleman in all will ever a~plaud anyone here, h~ In t~e end perhaps the great~st · respects, and that's something was . noticeably . the most ~omphment a player can rece1~e people don't notice. Tedisco exhausted player m the arena. 1s to earn the respect of hts never loses his calm in fact he's But he did not let you notice it opponent. ~om Murphy, c_oach at his best in a cruical situ~tion, on the court. of the Contmentals had thts to the true mark of an All- Tedisco truly deserved every say about Jimmy: American. Say anything good honor bestowed upon him in the \He's . the greatest ballplayer, about Jim Tedisco and you can post-game ceremonies, including his record alone speaks for itself. quote me.'; .. I. ' •

had was has a 25 pass · the to bo!\ sent ious 50 the was the to and at the all od ,l .( o/!1: .r.:· ' l ·i Founded at Union College 1877 VOL.lOl, No. 33 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK February 25, 1972 . Price Twenty Cents Curricular Ideas Roberta. Flack Tenure Panel: Given By Robbins Dave Robbins, President of the Student Body, has submitted the f0llowing list of suggestions to the Curricular Affairs Committee concerning college regulations on switching or dropping courses: Cancels No Changes Roberta Flack cancelled her concert due to illness today. Tickets will be refunded at Proctor's Theater tonight till 9:30 p.m. and at the Student Activities Office beginning Monday morning, February 28. by PETER DICKERMAN A-If at this time there exists a college regulation requiring that each student take at least three courses during each term, I would recommend that this tule berescinded and replaced with one which states that each student, working in conjunction with his advisor, willtletermine how many courses to take during a given term. B-A student may drop a course for any reason up to the end of the sixth week. If this occurs, no notation that he attempted . the course will be made on his transcript. .• C-A student may decide to enter a new course up to the end of the third week of a ne}v term subject to the approval of the course instructor. and advisor. Yet another discuss.ion concerning the subject of tenure was held Tuesday, but the one- hour time limit greatly restrained participation from the floor and a full airing of opinions. Panel members Professors Bick (who moderated), Wells, Jonas, John Gillis of the Association of American Colleges, and President Martin - reiterated D-After the end of the sixth week and until the end of the term a studeJit may withdra-\V:Trom a course for any reason approved by his instructor and adviior. . Glee Club Will E-A student may take an incomplete for any reason that IS approved by his instruct~r and advisor. F-A student may c'itange his advisor at any time if the new faculty member, who would be the student's new advisor, consents to the cllange. A faculty member may refuse to advise a student at any fhhe and for any :t~:asom Travel To Amherst by Bennett R. FitzAian:-Howard G-A student may have until the end of the third week of any term to decide whether or not to take a course pass/fail. The Glee Club is one of the few winning teams at Union. Consisting of 50 members, the Glee Club has been recognized with honor in the Eastern United States. According to Robbins, \each one (proposal) is predicated to some degree or another on the belief that those most involved in a particular situation should have prime responsibility for deciding what is best for them.\ In addition, Robbins stated that he has received more comments from students on the ideas contained in items B, C, D, and E this year than on any other issues. ·~.Abs!)~l,l~e.1Y. without excep~ip~, th~.~e comip.eo.~s have beeJ1. ai~~~. at liberaltzmg the present structure that (these proposals) deal w1th. On February 13th, the Glee Club, which is an all-male chorus, wijs joineq by the Wellesley College Glee· ,Club in a memorable concert at Memorial Any students who wish to comment on these proposals in any manner should contact either Dave Robbins o,r one of the student members.of the Curricular Affairs Committee: Howard Stone, Don Clarey, Peggy Mancuso, Sue Reville, or Paul Pfingst. The comments will be forwarded to the Committee for discussion. ·Chapel. The two clubs, joined by professional and student instrumentalists performed J. S. Bach's Magnificat, the Marean Lieder by Brahms, and one of Handel's Coronation Anthems. The ·concert was a great success from all angles. A recording is being made which will soon be available for limited sale. Film Discussions On Environment Planned Last Wednesday, the Glee Club, joined by the Skidmore Glee Club and the Northeastern New York Stude:tt Orchestra,' performed Dvorak's \Te Deum,\ and an unaccompanied hymn by the English Elizabethan composer William Byrd. The over-powering purity and clarity of the Glee Club's singing, articulation, and most important the leadership of Professor Hugh ·Allen Wilson, conducting, A series of five film discussion. sessions dealing with environmental problems has been jointly announced by Five Rivers Limited and the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. Five Rivers Limited is a public, nonprofit corporation recently formed for the purpose of developing an environmental education center on the former Delmar Game Farm property in cooperation with the Department of Environmental Conservation and other interested parties. . Intended ·primarily for adults and high school students, the film discussion series got ~ underway at 8 p.m. on February I 7 in the Cohoes Community Center building at 22-24 Remsen Street (near City Hall) with \The Slow Guillotine,\ a dramatic, informative and thought- provoking film exploring the continuing hazards of air pollution. A discussion period led by Dr. Robert Nurnberger of the State University at Albany followed the film. The remaining four sessions will be presented as follows: On February 25 at the Rensselaer Cultural Center, on the corner of Burdett and Peoples, at 8 p.m., \Up to our Necks\ wiU be presented followed by a discussion period led by John , Mathur of the Bureau of Recovery, Recycling and Reuse. On March 3, in Channing Hall, , 405 Wa~:ington A venue, Albany, -~t 8'ji.m., \Crisis on Our Rivers\ will be shown. Immediately after the film John M. Burns, President of the Hudson River Sloop . Restoration, Inc., will field questions and lead a discussion on water pollution and related topics. · On March 8 in the Exhibit Building at the Five Rivers Environmental Education Center (formerly D~lmar Game Farm) Continued on Page 3 resulted in a sublime and movingly emotional performance of Byrd's \Ave Verum Corpus.\ The Dvorak \Te Deum\ came next. Many things can ~e said Work On Electric ·Car Continues In New Home Several factors have had a significant effect in furthering the restoration work of the 1914 Detroit Electric automobile. Grants, professional help, and student effort have been a boost to the project of refurbishing this antique vehicle once owned by the electrical wizard, Charles P. Steinmetz. A department of General Electric has offered to rebuild the electric motor, a rather formidable task. Besides a rather large corporate grant several professional people have given and have offered theirassistanceto the restoration project. The Steinmetz project now has its own workshop in the machine shop building behind Carnegie Hall. Besides serving as a bri?ht workshop, it has ample storage area for parts and components be1~g removed froin the automobile during the restoration process. So far, the body has been removed from the automobile during t~e restoration process. So far, the body has been removed and work 1s proceedirg toward removal of the motor. Students are working on the Steinmetz car three afternoons a week, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday from 2-4 P.M. If you are interested in helping out, stop by the Steinmetz shop. You'll be put to work! about the performance, but before that, one should keep in mind that the instrumentalists are high school and college students (not that one does not expect a professional sound from a student orchestra, but some sections of the orchestra are definitely weak). The musical forces were unbalanced; the Union 'Glee Club overpowered the Skidmore voices, the Orchestra almost drowned out the voice element, and the soloists were completely unheard in the last movement where the orchestra plays its loudest. Next term the Glee Club will be joined by the Oneonta Glee Club in three performances· of J. S. Bach's The Passion According to St. Matthew. This work requires three choruses, two orchestras, two organs, harpsichord and eight soloists. · The Glee Club had been invited along with two other professional quality glee clubs to sing at the International Choir Directors Seminar at Amherst, Massachusetts in May. The Glee Club will sing a solo performance for 30 minutes and then join the Cornell and Amherst Glee Clubs in ajoint musical effort. Professor Stephen Berk of the History Department has announced that the number of courses in Judaic Studies at Union has increased to five this year. Professor Welkovics, he said, is offering Hebrew 10, II, and 12 in sequence again this year, and Rabbi Zimelman offers his Beliefs course. Next term, Berk will teach a course called Modern Jewish - History (History 187) covering Jewish history in Europe since the 16th century, and the Jewish experience in the United States. In addition, twenty-five students have participated in the term abroad in Israel program, which has been very successful. According to current plans, these courses will be offered again next year, and students may preregister for them when planning their progrmas, next term. For further information concerning History 187 or any. of the other courses in the Judaic program, contact Professor Berk, Room 215 Humanities. arguments familiar to those who have been following the debate. Despite the outpouring of oratory, the situation remains basically unchanged, wit~ the Trustee-imposed 60 percent tenure limitation continuing in the face of nearly unanimous faculty opposition. Perhaps the most significant aspect of Tuesday's meeting was the appearance of President Martin to publicly explain the rationale behind the Trustee decision. Dr. Martin stated at the outset that he detects no desire on the part of any segment of the College community to \throw out tenure as a principle of operation.\ However, he does see a need to limit the scope or extent of tenure at Union, for the following reasons: a) shifts in student interests make curricular flexibility essential; b) an \infusion of new people\ reflecting intellectuftl ferment is necessary for this institution's spirit of innovation and academic excellence; c) the economic argument that fe~er tenured positions result in lower salary expenditures. To illustrate this point, Martin asserted fhat if 80 percent of the Union faculty were tenured there would be an additional expense of $225,00() in salaries compared to the existing costs. In response to a question from the audience, Dr. Martin stated that the costs of recruiting new faculty have been \'overstated\ by opponents of the tenure limitation. Faculty members present largely rejected the thrust of Dr. Martin's arguments, with statements that the tenure problem could be properly alleviated through voluntary guidelines and stricter evaluative procedures. In the words of Professor Jonas, \The purposes of the College cannot be conceivably served by a mechanical limit.\ The faculty rebuttals were multi-faceted and have been presented before, but concerning one particular issue President Martin and the faculty appear to be in direct opposition. The faculty members claim that young faculty arriving at the College with little or no opportunity to achieve tenure will, as a matter of self-interest, avoid such things as committee work and student advising in favor of producing scholarly work to enhance their reputations. President Martin responded that he interprets the Trustee action as a \warning not a final, absolute limit, and he added that \there ought to be openings\ for tenured positions. However, in Martin's view young faculty should be primarily concerned with scholarlv work, with the implication that this must take precedence o\cr Pth:·r job functions. In conclU'lf•l:. then, little seems to h;l·.e changed; views have perh,,rs been exchanged, hut ba~1c philosophical differences s 1 II l separate administration from faculty.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 25, 1972 l ! 7 ' ..: f ... Olnttrnr Editor,in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff \\370-4956 Features Editor Matthe\\ Swart7 Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photography Editor Dave Conn:~ Asst. Photo Editor~ Scott Gordon Jeff Weilburg News Editor Howard I. Stone 'Asst. Managing Editor Gail W, Goodman Contributing Editors· William Holleran Mike Meserole Peter Dickerman ··Managing \Ec:l~t Doug We ; !< ... \~~ Business Manager · Joseph P. Achenbaum Asst. ·Business Manager\ Michael· Hurley Subscription Managef. _Thomas J. Co_ntey t' National Advt. lVJ.anager 1 Mark Shulman ' STA,FF: Woody Gutherz, Sam BrQdy, Bob JohnsQn, Larry Wharton, Jon Philipson, Bill W estheimer, Steve Ente, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. Bain, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald, Reid Russell, Paul Connors, Phyllis Edeln!an, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patt:Y Sipe Pete Torpey, Bob Sperry, Bennett R. FitzAian-Howard . Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the school year ·by the student' body of Union College, Schenectady, N,. Y., National\ Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y .C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The W~rld Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office a:' Second Class !\fail Ma~.ter. Subsc. ript.io ... n - 2~0 I _cents a copy. $8 a year debvered anywhere m\ the Un1ted States. ____:_) ' . . - . -- --- - .• Constitution, Constituents To the Editor.: As a member of the college community and as a former football coach at Union and in the Ivy League, I sha:r:e the disappointment and frustration over the recent ruling regarding post-season participation of our exceptionaUy fine basketball team by the New England Small College Athletic Conference. I must also express dismay and concern over the resultant fervor. Sach emotionalism 1s counterproductive to a clear, reasoned, constructive opinion on this or any other issue. To suggest that Union College issue an ultimatum to the NESCAC exemplifies this. Personally, I look upon the NESCAC decision as one that, perhaps, s~arves fot justificatiQn. However, that is beside the point. An agreement was made by the consortium colleges to abide by the rules and regulations governing the conference. Championing autonomy as a member of an association is a blatant contradiction. The College stands to gain immeasurably from this If you are reading this editorial, the odds are probably good association with colleges whose that you also read the editorial in the last issue. If so, you are educational philQsophy, then aware of the concern among some students over the role admission standards, financial of student body involvement in the organization of aid awards to athletes, Concordy. If not, and if you do not share this concern, this recruitment practices, etc. parellel each other to a great of Union bitches, It seems to m. e \th 1 t t \\\ WI . · an e ec 1on . (lr Lu~·v~ -~u- that you have made gross chief coming on Monday, Mr. generalizations about men in Swartz has shown those of us fraternities at U.Col. Fraternities, unable to vote in this election a here, do not seem to me to be the method of influencing those who best example of widesprell,d can. For the apparent majority of chauvinism. On the contrary, studertts who ~ind Concor.dy fraterni,ties provide the lacking, a talk with masthead av;1ilahility for some young men personnel could be instrumental to live together on campus, either in !>ringing on a change. For because of mutual interest or those who are satisfied with the ~e~ause. they like the \sense . of pap~r as it is, letting your views livmg ~ a ~mall commumtr, \ be known to a voting staff cooperatmg With one another m member aUow you a say in the a \brot~erly'' way. \ paper's future policy. Concordy It. IS understandable and does not belong simply to its a~D?rable that Mr. Sperry staff; it belongs to the entll'e d1slikes generalizations. If se, college commUiiity. why does he do the s~e himself. For those of you allowed to I, too, feel that .if everyone vote, I urge you to t&)<:e this ~el~t~d to one. another. as election seriously. To everyone xndtvida~ls a~d ~utnail bemgs; else, I hope that you will take the the social s1tuatton would be time to speak with peopl~ you more, rel.axe? .. B~t my sy~pathy know on the masthead. If you for him ts dtmmished by h1s own don't bother to do this and the use of gen~r{Llizations: a case of paper continues to offe~d you in the pot calling the k~ttle ~lack. any way, remember, you will I~stead ~f .eng~gmg I? name have only yourself to blame. callmg recnmmatlon wbt~h can Sincerely, go on forever Without Bob Sperry accomplishing anything, why not * * * * . · work •constructively towards the destruction of double standards, discrimination and other anti,human institutions which our society has chosen to adopt. Respectfully yours, Ms. Jeryl L. Pr.oce * * * * To the Editor.: editorial will probably not interest you. degree, or, hoepfully, will in It has been my position throughout the last two terms that time. The establishing of a To the Editor: increased student involvement with Concordiensis would be competitive relationship with Mr. Sperry's article (\What's A To those nationalists who belittle . the U.N. as a political unit, I have a few urgent comments. Mr. Goldman advocates a more realistic view of this orga,nization. I can· only retort by asking him to appraise the global situation more realistically. The war system, resource depletion, population expiQsion. and pollution are only a few of the problems the whole world faces - and must solve together. · b. eneficial to the students as well as to the newspaper. these colleges will in the long run Nice Girl Doing In A Place ... \) prove of great value to Union did not end on a moralistic note. However, I have also espoused the belief that it is possible for College. One must view this . Rather, it was not moral at all, in a large number of students to be actively involved in the association with .a sense of part or in ~hole. By labeling all mechanical, editorial and political aspects of the paper within optimism and one that sees this Union coeds as either a \born the current framework of its constitutional organization. concord in tis total context - bitch\ or a \bitch out of Without seeming elitist, allow me to suggest that the the future may be significantly\ necessity\ he ignores a basic · more important to the College truth of social reality: that every constitution, as it is now worded, makes it rela.tivel.Y easy for a· · 1 bl d · than the present. One shouldn't person IS va ua e an . umque, student to attain a position which entitles him to vote in dis:tnis'S . carpingly the differing in numerous ways from Editorial elections. Wit\h\a rillninrum investment of time and responsibility of an administrator every other person. interest, any student can be listed on the masthead, and vote i:q . arriving at decisions that Furthermore, a bite~ is a for Editor-in-Chief. include this vision beyond the female dog; a woman is a homo horizon. sapien of the female gender. The question that now arises is: Should there be a .To consider aborting our When ~r .• ~p~rr:y o~. any~ne else correlation between the ainourit. of work- a student put\s· tilto- - . relationship with NESCAC is . s~ys t~at a- woman .ts a ?Itcb; he · the paper and the power he or she has in determining ill-advised and inconceivable to etther ts demonstratmg himself to newspaper policy? The proposition that all students be me. The loss to Union College be u~terly blind .to what is in fa~t permitted ·to vote in Concordy ele£tions encourages would be immeasurable and long~ so, I.e., what Is true, or he ts lasting. showing himself to be grossly opportunism, with student interest in the paper likely to rise Sincerely, inadequate· · in handling. sharply during the week or two before the election. At all .Joseph t. Maras metaphors. Such an appellation other times, the situation would be the satne as it is now. Director of Student Aid is a vulgar, degenerate and Other problems incurred by such an arrangement will not be perverse use of language. discussed here. * * * * David Toliver '73 Students with no previous involvement with the newspaper do not deserve a voting voice equal to that of regular staff members. Should Concordy's staffers, for example, vote in WRUC's elections? · If the real complaint is the \same people going to press every week,\ I submit that that phenomenon will continue, no matter who votes in the elections. The monotony ofthe paper reflects only the lack of active involvement among the students it exists to serve. - L.S.S. * * * * To the Editor: To the Editor: We are beginning to realize the unity of man and our planet as we see pollution from one country carried to the next. When the world is overpopulated and there is not enough oxygen, ·it won't matter if t:he U.S. has indluded a zero. population growth if Asian countries haven't. We are all in this together, only American at the moment are a little luckier. The SALT talks are almost a joke ~ yet even if they would succeed tJ!ey . would not . be binding ori other countries with nuclear capability. The U.S. effort to find peace in the Arab- Israeli conflict seems to have · failed, the only road open now is ;through Jarring and the U.N. 1•n•r1•:':~~~~--~~•n••-.a• Rt • ,, I CAVALIERS, I am a co-ed student here at U.Col. and you may be pleased to know that I am replying to Mr. Sperry's statement of his opinion expressed about bitches and pigs. His agonized denunciation of the various types of \bitches\ here at U.Col. and \pigs\ seem to point to one conclusion: he doesn't like bitches, be they born or due to circumstance. I would like to comment on Bob Sperry's \best example of widespread chauvinism.\ This, \he says, is fraternities. He claims that each fraternity wants the biggest supply of girls to attract freshmen. BULLSHIT! I have been in contact with fraternities since I've been at Union and know of only one house where there has been an overabundance of girls at a rushing function. Maybe their reason for being there was what Bob said, but even if it was, this is only one house. I think for him to accuse all fraternities is like me saying his whole article stinks because I disagree with one point. I happen to agree with the rest of his article. A lot of guys on this campus are basically pigs. This is not to .say, however, that there may not be a few girls at any fraternity on any given weekend. But if Mr. Sperry or anybody tried to pick one of these \chunks of meat\ up, he not only will be turned down, but he may be asked to leave by the guy she's pinned to. ' \ Bilatetal talks or treaties will not work, .they do not confront the situation (if it is even recognized). They only continue to fracture the authority so ileeded to combat global problems. I see the U.N. as the only organization existing upon which we can base a central global authority. If one does not accept this, a mor~ idealistic plan for the future would appear as complete fantasy and one can only fall back on traditional national' governments that, because of shortsightedness and vested interests in self- perpetuation, continue to talk, n:ot act, about arms limitation. Governments that base their global policy on national interests ~ 1 'get as much of the resources as possible so we can profit,'' not \conserve the world's resources because there is so little.\ . . SPECIALIZE- · I HOT DOGS. (new hot dog sauce) & HAMBURGERS SPECIALIZE- I HOME MADE COOKED FOOD \. OPEN WEEKDAYS 6- 1:00AM L WEEKENDS 6- 4:00 AM under new managership Corner Erie Blvd. & Jefferson St. 1•V!•n••••slu•uwau6 IMlit&t'iJ•~; r·-:::::~s Teachers ~ow! -\1 1 '\·.· Sick of Hassling Smog, Unemployment? Growing Needs, All Subject Areas FOR FULL INFO. SEND $1 TO: I Inti. Teachers Placement Bureau ' P.O. Box 19007 [:1 Sacramento, Calif. 95819 t • .w~~~~~~ .............. ._ .. ,.,.d.ftM~II-.l.,SZ~r!~,~~ ~>':Bd._.,,._,..v·u ~~- I cannot speak as a bitch, but I presume to be reasonably cognizant of conditions here at Union. His criticism of the fair maidens is undeniable, but do not categorically denounce all V. Col. women. Each of us is so different, and all types can be found. Granted, the greatest proportion of the male students here are chauvinists, but it can be presumed the same is true of the male populations of most other colleges. Why? The responsibility lies partly with the women they date. (I am not denying the responsibility of our Great Society.) However, some of your statements cast a different light on your objection to generalizations: you yourself indulge in some rather sweeping scathing generalizations· of yo~r own. Aside froltl your descriptions Dale Stark '74 \' .... * To the Editor, In resportse to Matt Swartz's editorial, all I can say is that it is about time someone raised these issues. Everyone on campus seems to have some gripe about the Concordy format, but no one appears to have any ideas or initiative to· ·do anything. Now, No matter how conservative a view one takes, there will be a day when resources will be depleted or pollution will quickly kill off the excess population ~ if we don't change directions. What do you choose? Support for the U.N. is a way to express concern, hope, and change for the future. I urge anyone interested in saving the earth to think - and then act. There is a group of Concerned Students for the U.N .... Tina Burk Eve at le: could thre~. that often the h1 basta, increc have butm !h< to be who < is ile(: thi$ te catego fall jr bas tar ofnec1 The Union chauvi 1 Cent pr.em D3ni Trial -as -a· 1221 Sche1 Satm Sund will : the S and Fund these Peact 3rd fl St.; Moh~ camp Sigm1 Dave (346-~ Outgoi Don F1 night's ~ during ~ elected. · new Get take offic spring te1 new offic · Program the new staff, an over the Kathy N. as Sales I Pach expressec concerni programr hopes to significan year. Pac staff pl~ diverse instead .c broadcasl humdrurr General more ii1l radio wi 'lttractive Conc1 . ·held 11 Februar office J Geolog3 Chapel. includ.e Contrib: Swartz, Doug Editor. AU s appeare1 the Fe Concort Ballotin: and clo Monday

. ,. . • I\ / . ' ~ CONCORDIENS/S, Feb. 25, 1972 Page 3 What's A_· Nice .Guy Gross Generalizations Doing In A Place ..• by Phyllis Edelman '.iJ Are Destructive Everybody on campus )<nows at least one, in fact, each girl could probably name at least three. I am. speaking of course, of that incredible phenome.non often seen swaggering through · the ha1Is of Richmond, the Union basta;rd. They are those incredible studs who seem to have b~n in every girl's room but never with any girl. Though Union College seems to be chock-full ·of those males who could labeled '•bastards,\ it is necessary however to qualify this term. There are two distinct categories that these '•bastards\ fall into. Threre are the \horn bastards\ and the \bastards out of necessity.\ The . ''born bastard\ is the Union stud. He is that male chauvinist pig who insists that The Cl\pital Are~ Peace Centers wiD present the area premiere performance of Daniel Uerrigan's play \The · Trial of tbe CatonsviUe Njne\ - as directed by Jack Natkin - at the Unitarian Church, 1221 Wendell Avenue in Schel)ectady on March 11, Saturday, and March 12, Sunday. This theater party .. will serve to raise funds for the Schenectady Peace. Center and the Harrisburg Defense Fund. Ticekts are avaible at · these locations: Schenectady Peace Center, 348 State St., · 3rd floor; Coplons, 1806 State · · St.; The Crystal Mansion, Mohawk Mall; and on campus frotn Jeff Simon, Sigma Chi (346-9582), or Dave Stevenson, 310 Fox (346-9304.) women are just arms, legs, and \in-betweens\ for his pleasure. He's the guy who always comes in at Wednesdg.y lunch talking about his heavy conquest at Skidmore the night before. A little mid-wee-k flin-g. Still gagging on my '\El Ranchero\ I decide t0 casually get tip and retQrn II1Y tray before he goes into those unusually gross details that he has just made up. The \bastard out of necessity\ is much harder to define. There is q:uestion as to whether this guy would be a \bastard\ under different circumstances. In the eyes of most of Union's co-eds this male is definitely a \bastard.\ Many, (if not most) of Union's female population would undoubtedly state that these men's sole reason for stalking thro'iJgh the women's dorms is to rape every sweet, young, innocent girl they can get their hands on. If· there is any truth to that ax:gument,. if any girl ever finds herself being taken advantage of, she h~,ts only herself to .blame. The point of the matter is that .no matter how bastardly a guy may act, we are after all, the ones that lead them on.. Knowing that there are approximately one of us to every five males on campus gives us the idea that we have the liberty to ''pick and choose.\ How often do we wear those Feally tight. ribbed-knit sweaters with those tight jeans,. and just put the right little wiggle in our walk so that some guy's eyes might pop out of his head. How many conquests have been made at the Saga salad bar in West? This of course, is not to mention the times we bralessly bounce into one of our Pach, Miller Chosen In WRUC Electi()·ns by TIM CAIN Outgoing Genreal Manager Don · Francolino chaired last night's WRUC . ~tation meeting during whiCh new' officers were elected. Peter Pach was elected new Gereral Manger and '-Vill take office at the beginning of the spring term, as wiU the Fest ·of the new officers. Peggy Miller is now · Program DirectOr, Sam King is the new head of the Technical staff, and Bill Poellmitz takes over the job of Station Manager. Kathy Mitchell retains her post as Sales Director. Pach was optimistic and expressed his enthusiasm concerning future WR UC programming. He said that he hopes to vary the programming significantiy during the upcoming year. Pach said that the WRUC staff plans to include more diverse and unusual features instead of filling up the entire broadcast day with the same humdrum shows. The· new General Manager hopes that a more imaginative approach to radio will make WRUC more <~ttractive to its listening audience. Concordy elections will be · held next Monday night, February 28, at the Concordy office in room 23 of the Geology building above Old Chapel. Candidates for office includ.e Mike Meserole, Contributing Editor; Matthew Swartz, Features Editor; and Doug Wong, Managing Editor. AU students whose names · appeared in the masthead of the February 22 issue of Concordy are eligible to vote. Balloting will begin at 8 p.m .. and close at 11 p.m. next Monday. · · · Don Francolino also brought the station members up to date on the current status of WRUC's campaign for an FM license. For the past four years, several members of WRUC's staff have been working more or lc;:ss d i li g e n t 1 y to bring an FM commercial station 'to Union, which would broadcast over the Schenectady area. The campaign has ·been something of a Great Crusade for the few students who have spent long tedious hours in their efforts to convince the Federal Communications Commission that Union College deserves the one available FM band because they could best serve this area. Francolino said that he recently received a letter from the FCC, asking for more information. The FCC will probably make a decision on WRUC's petition before the end of the spring term. Films Continued from Page 1 at 8 p.m., the imaginative film essay \Cry of the Marsh\ will be previewed .. Eric Fried of the Wildlife Research Laboratory will lead the discussions that will certainly follow. On March 15 at the Washington Irving Education Center in Schenectady, on the corner of Mumfo.rd and VanVoast, at 7 p.m., \Islands of Green'; will conclude Part I of the film discQssion series. Don McNalt of the State University of Albany will be on hand to discuss environmental education. Details of further film and discussion sessions will be announced soon. classes.. As every male in the room ogles at us we can be heard saying some sweet profanities under out breaths. Well sisters, we asked for it! Having egged the mal'e population at Union on sufficiently, We suddenly l>alk when a friend casually wraps his arms around us in a ''hello ~• hug. How dare the \dirty bastard\ to11ch me! What kind of girl does he think I am:? Believe it or not, the \born bastard\ l;lnd the \bastard out of necessity\ are not the only ma.les that exist heFe. Yes, there is that Fare breed of males who could be labeled \nice guys.\ Maybe they're not all that· rare. Maybe they're just holding thelllSel'ves back because they think we•re all bitches? The \nice guy\ due to his seeming elusiveness on campus is extremely hard to define. He is the male who knows that there is a time and place for everything. When he's having an intelligent discussion with one of us, he is not at the same time sizing iip his position with us socially. When passed on the way to class he gives us a \hello\ that does not at the same time strip us of every stitch on our bodies. He acknowledges that fact that '\V(re female, but respects us as being persons. As a final note, may we girls take heed. When we change o,ut sexist way and shed our false eyelashes and \feminine\ plasticity, perhaps then the \nice guys'' will come out of hibernation. The sooner the gross jokes and endless innuendos cease, fellows, the happier we will all be. The Union College Coffee House presents Bob McCarthy and Tom Parisi & Bo Willse tltis Saturday at Old Chapd beginning at 8:30 p.m. The fine music will be accompanied by the free coffee and donuts. Admission is a mere 50 cents. * * * * There will be an organizational meeing of the Union College Debate Society, the Philomatheans, on Thurs<lay, Feb. 24, in Hale House Lounge. All are invited to attend. For information, call Harry Lessin a_t 346-9590. * * * * Come over ~,tnd take advantage of our new, huge book sale at the campus bookstore. * * * * Winning numbers in the Mountebanks raffle: I st prize: 551 2nd prize: 1020 3rd prize: 36 4th prize: 145 Those with winning tickets should contact Paul Delfin or Harris Ginsberg. * * * * The Department of Economics will conduct a discussion on \Nixonian Economics\ on Wednesday, March 1 at 3:30 p.m. in SSll5. Everyone is ·invited to attend and participate. by BENNET-T R. FITZALAN-HOW ARD Free speech and expression is a gift that is abused and misused. We are lucky to be able to voice our opinions, our discontentment and impatience, but I believe that there should be a built-in limit as to what one would want to say, and in what language to say it. Some of the built-in limits are Gross Generalizations, unfair statements, and name calling. This is destructive and uncivilized, instead of being constructive and educative, offering solutions to existing problems instead of creating more problems. Bob Sperry's long-winded article in the Feb. 22 issue of this p~tper went around an.d around in circles of generalizations shc.wing a bitter and breeding ego and an unfortunate jealousy of other men (and maybe jealousy of the \new phenomenon\?) True, some females are born -ego trippers, blinded by their own inwardly-seen beauty, but 'Beauty' as one philosopher said, 'is in the eyes of the be.holder! If one thinks she is so and you disagree sit back and enjoy the tragic comedy. If you care for her, then the reaction should be different. Mr. Sperry's generalization is based upon two or more females, he and many others have noticed, but it is, I am sure you agree, unfair and utterly stupid to include ALL the female population in that category. Finally comes a contradiction: the bla.nie really feU upon the male population, another generalization, not, interestingly enough, upon the male population, another generalization, not, interestingly enough, upon the \new Phenomenon.'' Some males are feeding their egoes on female conquests, and I feel that it is unfair for ALL the males to be included in this category. If the article contained the last of its eight lines, it would have been one of the best published thus far. The superficiality of many stu<lents reflects the mode and intensity of their backgrounds, this is a sociological matter of fact, and cannot be changed unless one starts with him/her self and changes his/her outlook toward the rest of the population, thus changing the way they relate to others. 1lis, in my opinion, is the basic issue. 1s it not true that it also i~ the fault of the mass of population? Forcing the individual not to relate in a healthy way, real .and honest way to them, thus t·he individual would ha·ve to .put-on a superficial air, a face, a mask, a facade~ to impress and thus. become sought after, hence become accepted by the group. Is it also not a psychological need for some :people to conform to the fads established by the in-group thus, super-ficiality, hypocrisy? Relating to others is, in my opinion, the basic and most important point. If the small groups on campus could dissolve and expand to include a greater selection of personalities and ideatic variations. then harmony would hopefully come and tension experienced would hopefully disappear. Refreshments _will be served. * * * * Application forms for Assistant Chairman for Orientation 1972 are now available at the Office of the Dean of Students, Old Gym Hall. * * * * l'he Kappa Alpha Society announces its Winter Weekend Schedule. On Friday afternoon from 4-7 p.m. there will be a testim.onial cocktail party in honor of Robert Kurzuis Jr. Mr. Kurzius, a recent graduate of the Carol Shelby Driving School, will lecture on the proper entry of buildings while operating a motor vehicle. On Saturday afternoon the KA snowslide will have a grand opening, Hawaiian style. A special concoction will be served. Sunday afternoon there VJill be a champagne party, featuring the return of AI Gonquin. All friends of the brotherhood are cordially invited to attend any and all events. * * * \' Princeton University's assistant dean of the chapel, Charles P. Henderson, will speak on the subject of \Human Engineering\ - the attempts of media to change American culture and values. He is the recent author of .. The Theology of Richard Nixon~' - a controversial book dealing with the president's moral foundations. His film and lecture will be on M.onday, March 6 at 7 p.m. at Chi Psi fraternity. All interested are welcome. * * \' * The Big Brother and Big Sister Program will sponsor films for its members and all interested students on Saturday, March 4. Shown will be Road-Runner and Walt Disney cartoons plus the Walt Disney feature, \Treasure Island.\ The films will start at l o'clock and be shown in SS 0 16. Refreshments will be served. Any questrons, call Marie Bednar at Bronner House, 370-0274, or John Calender at Phi Gamma Delta, 346-6597. * * * * Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office for the Social Committee for the 1972-3 academic year. Completed applications are due in the Student Activities Office on Friday, March 10. Interviews will be held at the beginning of the Spring Term. * * * * SUPERSTARS: The JAZZ WORKSHOP will play the Rathskellar Sat. 9 to II. The group is led by Union students -Greg Chesson, piano, and Matt Finley, trumpet and flugelhorn. Ed Jacob from Albany State is on tenor sax, and RPI students Jim Nagy and the Weasle (of WRPI fame) play drums and bass, respectively. Some original jazz arrangements will be featured along with charts by Herbie Hancock, Keith Jarrett, and Freddie Hubbard, so come and dig it. Don't miss the free breakfast at 4 a.m. and remember, ALL THE BEER YOU CAN DRINK is on sale at the Rathskellar. Bill Adams will be there. Due to modern advamces in tbe science of photography, your image can be engraved for an eternity! Name 9 date, and lceation on a sheet of plain brown paper delivered i1t a eo01illon envelope to the student activities office (puenthetically, in the Union Book Box). We wiD be at y()ur movie. KEVIN KODAK AND liiS B()YHOOD FRIEND * * * *

Page 4 CONCORD/ENSlS, Feb. 25, 197~ ' Concordy Sports Rothblurn, Benedict Welcome Home. Hoops Crucial in Mat Win by MINNER It started off with a bang, and ended with a bang and there was a lot of shooting in between. That's the story from Alumni Gymnasium as the Garnet grapplers ended their dual meet season in Jimmy Tedisco fashion by winning their last four matches to finish 6-8, along with a tournament win and a fourth place finish in the state meet. Oh what a finish! It started at 12:00 noon Wednesday the day of the match, when captain Mark Zullo turned recruiter and found scrappy 118 pounder Danny Rothblum studying in his room; the flashy frosh had never wrestled previously, but he may go down in mat history as the only undefeated wrestler at Union. Danny, after a quick introductory course in how to put a uniform on, charged out onto the mat to stake Union O·ff to a quick six point lead. He then turned in his sneaks and hung up his jock despite great protests from the grapplers and the crowd, \because it's always better to quit when you're ahead, when the crowd's begging for more, then to hang on past your prime, Besides, I've go to get back to my studies.\ Nine matches ·later, with the team score tied, 19-19, Howie Benedict took the mat, obviously very high on what he had to do. He actually warmed up for his match. Fifteen seconds and a bear hug later, Howie's opponent was hopelessly wired to the mats, and six points and the match were Union's. There were several key matches in the win, one which was over a Rochester team which had beaten Union by several point!) in the state meet. There was Larry Dagastino at 142 who used a last second takedown to pUll out a draw in his match. There was the big pin by Gary Gurn.ey at 158 with only thirty seconds remaining in the match. He had previously beaten his man in a close decision in the state meet. And there was Pat Wardell escaping in ·the walling moments. of his match to eke out a draw with Rochester state champion, Rex Kini The other Garnet winner was Mark Zullo at 126 who eased to a 12-5 decision. ·Zullo's match raised his second best record to 14-3, while team topper Benedict raised his perfect record to 19-0. Wardell's record is 11-6-2, while Calabro stands at 8-4. Howie's quick pin and final record are both pending records. Union's top wrestlers, minus Mr. Rothblum, will be traveling to Oswego next weekend for the National finals. From the Acting Sports Editor On Sunday morning, between 2 and 3 a.m., the Union College Varsity and Freshman basketball teams will be returning, hopefully victoJ.1ious, from Hobart and Rochester. The members of the Union College community are _urged to come out and greet the tearn as they return to campus at this ungodly hour. For this purpose, arrange- ments have been made to return the team directly to Chi Psi Lodge, where there will be an ample supply of beer for those who await the team. This gathering, which hopefully will come as a surprise to the team members, is perhaps the least that the student body can do for the best team in Union's history. This past Monday the fans of Union College basketball showed unprecedented support for the team's final home game. The team, it is safe to say, also responded in ' unprecedented fashion, producing one of the most exciting evenings at Union College for many a student. or faculty member. It is a virtual certainty that the team would be equally appreciative of a large greeting as they conclude their season. . We therefore urge everyone to come to Chi Psi between 2 and 3 a.m. on Sunday morning. It is doubtful that anyone will be disappointed. Two notes of interest concerning the ever newsworthy hoopsters. In the most recent A.P. poll on National College Division rank, Union Colle11;e B-Ball Game At Gym by MEESHA raising campaign among the alumni in the tri-cities . The Unionfans who attended last Monday's home area. basketball finale were treated to two spectacles. The RPI has plans under way to renovate the Troy first of course was the dazzling show put on by Armory, for an estimated cost of $300,000. This Jimmy Tedisco and the entire Union basketball includes basketball courts, an indoor track, locker team. facilities, the whole works. Keeping up with the The second of these spectacles was just as engineers should not be one of Union College's ' incredible, though in an entirely difl,\e.rent way. great ambitions, but somehow it is hard to believe Some 3500 students and fans, including a number that RPI is that much richer than Union. of alumni, witnessed a concrete example of the If you a.re tired .of playing intramural basketball appalling lack of support given Union's athletes by until midnight, because there are only 2 full-court this school. basketball courts, or getting up at 7:30 to play The Union College Memorial Fieldhouse, scene handball, there is now something you can do to of the Garnet's record breaking fourteenth express your discontent. Next Wednesday, March I, con~ecutive basketball victory. was a sight for sore there will be a massive basketball game at the gym, eyes. at 1:00 P.M. If everyone who is dissatisfied with the Melting snow dripped from the rafters, producing present athletic facilities shows up next Wednesday, large puddles on the track. This would be bad even just for a little while, and uses the gym to the enough, even without considering the near quarter- fullest possible extent, the huge strain on the million dollar sum paid this winter for the repair of building will dramatize the need for improvement. the roof. and the lighting fixtures. Imagine 800 to 2,000 students playing basketball Speakii1g of lighting, the illumination provided and handball, lifting weights, swimming, and using by the operational half of the light banks was not the showers and locker rooms, all at one time! Not quite what one would expect from a school of only will such an action point out the magnitude of Union's caliber. Of course, there would have been the problem, but it will be a real blast! no problem with lighting if two of the , three When it was built, Alumni Gym was a more than generators supplying the field house electricity were adequate facility for the needs of Union College. not on the blink. Indeed, until the mid-fifties, the basketball team Surely, lJnion's students deserve better than they must have used the Gym for their home games, now ha~e. The inadequacies of the existing sports since the fieldhouse had not yet been built. facilities affect not only the basketball players, but However, that was over half a century ago, in 1914, all of the Garnet intercollegiate squads, all when Union's enrollment stood at 400. participants in intramural sports. and all students Now, with the enrollment figure expanded by who are simply interested in pick-up games or an about 500 percent. and even with the addition of the occasional swim. girls to the school community, we are forced to use This is not to suggest that there is not concern the same, sadly overcrowded gym. •l\er the situation among the higher ranks. Indeed. 1\;ext year, Jim Tedisco will not be at Union. and President Martin stated last week. at a meeting it will be too late to show him our appreciation for called to discuss the NCAA tournament situat·ion. · what he has done for the school. It is probably that, after the additicm to the library is completed. already too late to give the basketball team a chance improvement of athletic facilities will be one of the that everyone agrees. they have earned. But it is not major priorities. He is aware of the inadequacy of too late to give aU Union students what they the gym and ficldhouse. but in this case . the desperately need and deserve in the way of decent President's hands are tied bv the economic policies athletic facilities. of the trustees. who refuse-to allov.: the school to Come to the gym next Wednesday at 1:00 P.M. borrow money for any project. to play handball or basketball, or go swimming. or However. there are people at Union who believe whatever you li.ke. Everyone is more than welcome, that a desperately needed improvement in the including the girls, who have perhaps the worst fieldhouse and, or gym could be financed by a fund- difficulties to put up with. See you there. Steve Fitz, voice of WGY radio, congratulates super senior Jim Tedisco .after his dazzling Hatnilton performa\(lce Monday nite. The Tedisco-led hoopsters will be on WGY for both their Hobart and Rochester roqd ba?tlefinales thfs wefk(;(ncf.,_ . , • • ... _.., .. ; ·f, received votes( Although we did not receive enough to put us in the top twenty nationally, the mere fact that we were accorded this ~honorable mention' throws us into quite an elite group. l'he only other Northeastern college division teams receiving votes in the poll were Assumption, Bentley and powerhouse Sacred IJe~rt fro~· Connecticut. New York\ State· number one ranked Brockport went voteless. In the recent N.C.A.A. versus Howard Porter and the A.B.A. case, \the N.C.A.A., under Pennsylvania law, had to find a random group of member institutions to act as trustees in order to bring the action.\ Among the eight colleges and universities chosen, was none other than Union CoHege of Schenectady, New York. Just another story with the N.C.A.A. and \trustees.\ Well, · see you at Chi Psi! Engineers Run Down Union's tracksters extended their record last night to 5-l~ trouncing RPI's Cinderrnen, 62- 29. Once .again, the Garnet field events men got Union off to a good start, amassing a 24-3 lead after three events. Senior co-captain Mike Rich was responsible for 9 Union points, taking third in the shot put, second in the hurdles, and winning his specialty, the . high jump, at 6'2\. RPI's fl'eshman jumper, Gary Mooring failed at 6'2\ finishing second. Two weeks ago, Mooring won the Union- Lehigh-RPI meet with a 6'6\ jump. Rick Jaszczak warmed up for Larry James by taking the 600 and anchoring the mile relay. \Floater\ and Baron Von Ricks continued their winning ·~\ ~. ~~ ~~ j~ ~~ It - STILL THE BEST 1\.ELLY'S 501·03 Hattie St. ·~ Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 j~ j • Phone 346-5059 ~ I hlock east ,j of Richmond_(Fo~tt!r Ave.;_. ~1!0'-------. --· ways, taking first artd second in the pole vault. The duo has not given up their one-two scoring in any dual meet this year. stamas Johnson turned in another fine performance in the two mile run, beating RPI's AI Swierczek by six seconds, in 9:54. Dave Rice added two second places, in the mile and 1000 yd. run. The Garnet will compete in the Cortland Invitational next Saturday, and Coach Michelsen feels that they have a good chance to take it alL · • ·Heck's Travel Bureau Inc. No Senice Charge • 2 Locations DOWNTOWN 149 Barrett St., Pb. 346-3431 MOHAWK MALL Ph. 370-0824 Go by Heck and1eav.e the rest to us. Graubart & Sons may run smaU ads, but they have big values. -~=- . ·::!ll:bo:~ ~~--- \ .. \· ..... ••7 ~ ..... ,c: .... ·· ~ .. ~ .. Schenectady's famous diamond shop, !for three generations) 166 Jay St. THREE UNION GR~DUATf::S IN FAMILY You need not travel jar Moffett's liquor Store ' Lowest'Price in N.Y.S. . YOUR FAVORITE WINES - CHILLED ' do an 1 yet we1 an< Me pai pia Ftc Pir Ela glir the pia apJ spe I Pir1 apJ: fee] Pir1 the whc desi whi ear1 .. Ha1 one Oll life, -Ad;: or 1 th~ T desi Da' som the Ton Ger1 E s Tl Scie COUI \EX] The by Har1 poli1 expe man and expl have cour poli perfc pres< c, Prot \Wh be i layn techt prob neve' Mac demc laym expe: and. yet ll contJ whe11 does1 back: ex:pe1 ,·

•• Founded at Union College 1877 \v ol. 101, No. 34 ~~HENECTADY, NEW YORK ~· ,February 29, 1972 Price Twenty Cents Plays Present Views Of Life 'FINANCIAL AID APPLICATIONS Applications for aU forms of financiali aid . are now available at the Ofiice of Student Aid, Old Gym Hall. Students desiring renewal of aid as well as those seeking an original . grant of assistance Craig Reviews i\V orld Politics The blue skies and. heavenly clouds are gone. In their place is an enveloping shellof blackness. Nott Memorial has undergone yet another transformation. This weekend -. Friday; 'saturday and Sunday nights, at 8:00 - the Mountebanks are presenting a pair. of student-directed one-act plays~ .. The Man With The Flower In His Mouth,\ by Luigi Pirandello, and \Adaptation by Elaine May. Both are brief glimpses into the Hfe of a man; the visions of the two playwrights, howeveJ:, are at opposite ends of the tragicomic spectrum. Paolo Ceratto, director of the Pirandello work, describes his approach this way: \Between a feeling of irony and regret, Pirandello attempted to measure the limits of humanity in a man who, just like Camus' Mearsault, desires for eternity 'a · life in which J, can remember this life on earth'.\ Delaney, Jay Kohn, Margie Zellermaier, Larry Feldman, and Steve Bussolari. As usual, curtain time is 8:00, and tickets are free for Union students and $1:00 for dates. Post-Peace theater is alive and · well and living. in N ott Memorial. Come and see for yourself. Tickets are at the box office now. · must submit applications. In addition to -scholarships, applications must be filed for Grant-in-Aids, board jobs, room jobs, concessions and loans. Applications for aid must be submitted no later than May 1st. Brubeck Trio In Albany Concert The Albany Symphony announces the biggest concert ever sponsored by the Concert Board of SUNYA 80 musicians and a conductor. The Jazz Sounds of Dave Brubeck ·l'rio and the Albany Symphony will play this concert in the SUNYA Gymnasium on Saturday, March 11, 8:00 p.m. composer. The 1812 Overture and two movements from the \Planets\ by Gustave Holst, \Mars\ and \Jupiter !bert's Bachannale 'wilt be included in this concert. · Tickets are $4.00. Tickets may be obtained at The Campus Cent~r at The University's uptown campus between 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.. or at the Albany Symphony office, Room 26, D & H Bqilding, Albany, or by .calling 465-4755. In a rambling talk which was more a teview of current events than an academic lecture, Professor Gordon Craig dealt Monday night with the subject of \International Relations in the Twentieth Century: New Dimensions.\ Professor Craig, who teaches at Stanford University, appeared here as the Phi Beta Kappa Lecturer in History. The speAker enumerated four major world events which have occurred within the past six months.In matters directly concerning Europe, Craig mentioned the Four 'Power Accords on Berlin and the vote for British entry into the Common Market. Of greater importance to the United States, President Nixon signaled a dramatic change in American foreign policy by a) traveling to China .and b) ending the convertibility of the dollar into gold, ·thus uprooting the monetary system which had served most of the non- Communist world since 1944. These changes were described by Craig as \potentially revolutionary\ and \troubling.\ \Adaptation directed by Bob Harders, is a black farce. Take one All-American Boy, put lllm on the grot~sque game-board of life, and play the game called -Ad~ptation: Yett can win, or die, or both, bUt getting there is all the, fun. The productions are being designed by Elliott Bardsley and Dave Me Williams. Some old and some new faces will be walking the boards this time around: Tom Hord, Bruce Scheckter, Gerardo DeWOlmo, Marnie The program will include Brubeck's compositions for Jazz Trio and Orchestra. Selections from \The Light in the Wilderness\ and Out of the Way of the People from •'Th~ Gates of Justice.\ The Symphony will play a Bachrach medley and Nashville medley featuring rock drums, fender bass, and jazz piccolo. The Mozart i la-Moderne is Mozart up dated in a rock sound by Georg Siravo, arranger and Passover Observance Announced By Hillel Experts.In Politics Union College Hillel, the religious and social organization for Jewish students on campus is planning a Passover Seder' on the evening of March 30, 1972. The Seder will be held at the Schenectady Jewish Community · Center at 6:30 p.m. and transportation will be proVided for interested students. Subject ForCourse The Department of Political Science will be offering a new course this corning Spring term: \Experts in the Political System.\ The course will be team taught by Professors Underwood and Hartwig and will explore . the political roles played by such, experts as city planners, city managers, educators, scientists, and the military. In order to fully explore these roles, stud~nts will have the opportunity in the course to talk with a variety of political figures actually performing these roles at the present time. Commenting on the course, Professor Hartwig remarked, \What is democra,cy supposed to be if not government by the layman? And in modern, technological societies, the major problem for democracy - one never considered by Locke, Madison, or any other democratic theorist - is how the layman can make use of the experts• specialized knowledge and ·skills in the· political system, yet at the same time adequately c~ntrol their political influence, when the layman, by definition, doesn't have the necessary background to evaluate the experts' judgment. The dilemma is this: If the layman doesn't defer to expertise, he can't make use of it in governing, yet if he does, he is in danger of transforming democra,cy into technocracy.\ Students wishing to sign up for this course should see their advisors as soon as possible. Passover is the Jewish Holiday which commemorates the persecution of the Hebrew people by the Pharoahs of Ancient Egypt and their eventual exodus from ~lavery. The Hillel Seder will celebrate the second night of Passover. The Kosher dinner will be privately catered, and will be Subcommittee Established To Investigate Bookstore A subco.mmittee of the Library Committee, appointed to deal with the Campus Bookstore, issued a general questionnaire last week, designed to be ·answered by the entire student body, faculty and staff. The questionnaire, distributed to the faculty last week, will be distributed to students this week by the Resident Advisors and Fraternity Presi:dents. Students are requested to answer the questions on the form and to return them to th~ heads of their Uving units as soon as possible. Questionnaires are also available at the bookstore, the library and from Mrs. Werner in the Humanities {)ffice, for students who live off campus. Among the members of the subcommittee, chaired by Professor Carl Niemeyer of the English Department, are Mrs. Kathe Frankel, Bookstore Manager, Mrs. Harold L. Usher, Director of Business Facilities and Operations, Professor Paul 0. LeClerc, Acting Chairman of the Department of Modern Languages, and student members RichardSpem~e and Louis Snitkoff. The Library Comtnittee is chaired by Joseph B. Board, Chairman of the Department of Political Science. ,,g accompanied by a traditional Passover service. All members of the College community and their families are welcome to attend the Seder. The cost of t~ dinner is $2.50 a person, and reservations can be made by calling Joe Schwartz at 370a0663, or Mike Sachs at 370- 4956. Snitkoff Out As Concordy Votes In an election in the Concordy office last night, Mike Meserole, '72 was elected to serve as the next Editor-in-Chief. Meserole will succeed , · current Editor, Louis Snitkoff, '73 who served for the last two terms. In a close election, Meserole defeated Doug Wong, '73 who finished second and Matthew Swartz, '73 who finished third. Meserole has been oii the Concordy Staff since his sophomore year. Meserole, who currently holds the post of Contributing Editor, wiii assume office with the first issue of next term. As a senior graduating in June, Meserole will not complete the normal two terms of office, but will bow to another successor at the end of the Spring term. In a statement issued before the election, Meserole expressed his plans for \overhauling the entire paper\ in an attempt to adopt a livelier and more interesting format. He said that among European commentators these American actions were met by a \unanimity of concern,\ in that they are seen as manifestations of a \new isolationism\ in this nation which would. threaten all existing international arrangements. Professor Craig cited European newspapers which have taken a negative view of America's future course. While acknowledging that there is a growing feeling among its citizens that the U. S, is overcommitted in the world, and that much of this sentiment has developed out of the \waste of bloodshed\ in Vietnam, Craig asserted that a precipitous American withdrawal from world affairs would likely result in consequences detrimental to international order and to our own national security. He emphasized the necessity for America to \establish confidence by conducting our affairs in a logical and steady way.,. ln discussing President Nixon's China visit, Professor Craig assumed a predominantly pessimistic ton~, noting that international summitry has been an unreliable tool in the past and is rarely beneficial with adequate preliminary contacts. He noted that the Administration's method of planning this diplomatic breakthrough \showed scant regard for the feelings of our friends\ in Asia, and contributed to our policy during the India- Pakistan war, which resulted in the present rift between the United States and India.. Craig concluded that our government has paid \a reasonably high price\ _ in exchange for a relationship which may pay few immediate dividends. Irt Professor Craig's opinion, there are three paramount issues dominating contemporary international relations. First, there is the matter of arms control, a field in which some progress has been made; nevertheless, the arms race has \' continued and may be accelerating. Secondly, there is worldwide concern over the environment, leading to efforts at what Craig called \ecological control.\ Finally, there is the problem of the \diplomatic revolution,\ the vast expansion and div.ersification of the international arena, particularly involving the Third World nations. Professor Craig indicated that this new diversity presented both problems and opportunities. Dennis Smith, vice president of Stereo Sound, will present a non-technical talk and demonstration concerning the correlation of price and quality of audio components on Wednesday evening, March 1, at 7:30 p.m. in ss 16. This program is sponsored by the Institute of Electrical and Eleetronies Engineers. (IEEE). Refreshments will be served.

Page J _CQNCORDIENSlS •. Feb. ,Z.Q~ .19.72 Open Letter Ad . . . ·a··· • . mintstrattve actsm Editor-in•Chief Louis S. Snitkoff \\370-4956 Features Editor Matthe'A Swarr1 Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photography Editor Dave Conrc) Asst. Photo Editors Scott Gordon Jeff W eilburg News Editor Howard I. Stone ~sst. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors William H9lleran Mike Meserole Peter Dickerman MarJaging :Editm Doug Wong 346-9735 Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Asst. Business Manager Mich~el Hurley Subscription Manager Thomas J. Co~!e~ National Advt. Manager Mark. Shulman STAFF: Woody Gutherz,. Sam Brody, Bob Johnson, LaiTy Wharton, Jon Philipson,. DiU Westheimer, Steve Ente, A:l Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. Bain, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald, Reid Russell, Paul Connors, Phyllis .Edebnan, Jim Smith, Jim Rostenbet;g, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald• Patty Sipe Pete Torpey, Bob Sperry Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., ·College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.c. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication. Office, The World Publillations, 771 State Street, .~chenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second. Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. . . Open Letter To· Whom It May Concern In the past few weeks letters to . the editor on racism have dealt with comments, innuendos., and vague indictments on certain people. This type of raCism, for· all ifs recent publicity is basically irrelevantMblack students as a gnoup really don't give a damn what whites thin:k, believe, p.erceive, say, or imagine about them. What concerns us is not the unconscious deep-seated prejudice of individuals but the paternalistic, irrational and indefensible relations]lip between us and Union College as an institution. Throughout our brief history at Union we have been consistent in asking for programs and policies whi£h take us i n t o consideration as peaple, and as a group with unique problems. WE have asked for relevant courses, • To the Editor: be considered an essential basis ' to make it a feature of several Peter Bickerman's able fortheteachingthatisdone. successiveissues. summary of the latest discussions Mr. Dickerman's interpretation Sincerely, about tenure in your most recent of my stance may have .stemmed Harold C. Martin issue needs one correction which· from my response to someone's ·:President I think sufficiently important to comment that young faculty * * * *. warrant a letter of clarification to members, pressed for scholarly To the Editor: . you. performance, would neglect their In regards to a previous Blither It is not my. :P~sit~OI) t]l.a~ classes or become inaccessible to article, I feel I .must. make certain faculty \should be primarily . students.\ .Given the kind of: corrections.- Mr: Robert Kurzuis, · concerned with scholarly work, expectation we have here for although a very adept lecturer on with the implication that this scholarship, I do not think that the praper entry of motor must take precedence over other necessary. Though it might of vehicles into buildings, is not a job functions.\ The College course occur in some instances, I recent grij.duate o( the Carroll ~ssembles faculty primarily for doubt that it. will. :occur' of(ep.: Shelby Driving School. He is the teaching they are to. do. My simply because tradition here only a sephamore. argument, with which I think works so powerfully against it. · Re:Spectfully, most faculty members would That, indeed, is one problem G. Hayes, Coordinator concur, is that scholarly work is every small college faces: th~ Eastern Division, Carron an important component of gc~lOd climate for· serious scholarship is Shelby Driving School teaching and that it should be constantly being Undermined by * * * * expected as part of the regular teaching load, committee work, To the Editor: activity of faculty members. In a the pressure of student advising, On &ehalf of the brothers of meeting last year between the and the lack of colleagues Delta Chi I would like very much Advisory Committee and the working in fields very close to to extend a well deserved Academic Affairs Committee of one's own. Yet is is commonplace congradulations (sic) and deepest the Board of Trustees this matter that the teacher who lets his thanks to all those responsible was thoroughly discussed in its scholarship falter wiH find in a for the planning and execution of relationship to tenure few years that he has little a truly marvelous Interfraternity appointments, and agreement worthwhile to say. Somehow Council Winter Weekend. I think was reached that scholarship and every strong college has to work it could be said with little doubt teaching performance should be out incentives that encourage that a good time was had by all equally weighed as criteria. One scholarship without damaging who attended. Once again the might argue for something the teaching-learning, situation, weekend fully demonstrated the different in weighing, but actual and that is what ·the Cpllege tries void that fraternities fill here at cases generally produce to do. · Union. It was heartwarming to · 'Jmething different - stronger Over the course of the spring 1 see the houses working together credit on one than the other ~ belilfve a sound resolution of the and indeed one hopes that so the precise definition af an tenure issue will be reached. through unity the. various inevitably imprecise process is probably not to everyone's liking,' brotherhoods will achieve an not of first importance. What is but one we can all accept as unprecedented resurgence .. I am important, in my judgment, is the reasonable. I am grateful to sure the Interfraternity Council understanding that real Concordiensis for its having can count on Delta Chi's fullest scholarliness, however measured, taken the issue seriously enough support and cooperation in all its ~~~~~ ~· futureendeavors. Peter Pause Restaurant 535 Nott Street Nusbaum's \Outfitters to Men and Young' Men\ ·441-451 STATE ST, i .SCHENECTADY I 1 l j \ Sincerely, Ira M. Greelle '73 Social Chairman, Delta Chi DICTIONARIES. WEBSTER library size, 1971 edition, bran• new, still in box. Cost new: $45.00 Will Sell for $15 Deduct 10% on orders of 6 or more. Mail .to NORTH AMERICAN LIOU I DATORS 1450 Niagara FaDs Blvd. Dept. W-.1175 Tonawanda, New York l41SO ·; C.O.D orders enclose $1.00 gqod wil deposit. Pay balance pius C.O.D. ship· , ping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspec tion or return within 10 doys for ful refund. No dealers, each volum.e spect ticolly stomped riot for resole. PleasEt add $1 .• 25 postdge and hon.dlh'lg New York State residents oc:ld appllcobl( sales tox. , housing~ transportation and reasonable financial ·aid. To date · there are .only two \relevant\ courses (taught · by white professors), imposed hous1ng separation between us, poor transportation~ and a fimmcial situation satisfactory to virtuaUy none of the black students on ' . ' . · scholarsh,ip. As a result of the administration's . whole-hearted refusal to accede to · those requests we consider essential to our survival as a: group·, We have met many times as a group, _in committee, and individually with both faculty members and administrators to e)(.press and sometimes deman(l our needs, only to be told, in essence,, that we couldn't tell them · what. we needed. What the administration thinks of our survival is perhaps best expressed by its decision to phase out the A.O.C. program, the ope program involved with bringing disadvantaged ·students, mostly black, to the Union College campus. The frustration of all efforts to make a fucked up situation livable ~led last spring to our occupation of the computer center, which led in turn not to a reevatuation of our problems by the administration but to fines and threats against further disorder. It seems that Union as an entity believes that it is po~sible to maintain· both itself and black students as . they are, that somehow they can repress, fine and frighten an anxious situation into stability. Such a belief denies an Ul!derstanding of us as black RIGHT ON! SSOlei: 4:15 p.m. Thurs:, March 2 Brought .. t«? '·: ~mjlus for Black History . and · the· American Future in Black, and White, RIGHT ON! is open to aiL other interested persons. What's it like?· \R.GHT ON\ is the beginni~g of future movies. A new, electric form ~ revolutionary revelation. ..-. Imamu Baraka (Leroi Jones) \RIGHT . ON is as stark a celebration of blackness as a general audience is likelx to see.\ - The Washington Post \The black experience on film and in poetry. A fusion of the blues, sanctified church, street theater, soul music and ritual ... \ - American Film Institute Theatre ' people, as people period who demand the resp.ect of being dealt with rationally and not as children whQ simply must obey regardless of whether or not their roles seem sttlpid ~nd unjust to them. The latest testament to the paternalistic relationship between the bl~cl} stud,ents ·. ~nd the administration is that a new flnancia'i aid. committee has. been drawn up,. with the pp.rp<>se of evaluating l,Jniop's policy tqward students ·ih need. The thing is that, directly following the computer c~nter incident, the original financial aid committee was fbrmed for the same reason. It h~d :been. agreed that we would ev~uate the policy in discussion with the adntinist;-ation. The results of our negottatw ns, however, have mysteriously been forgotten,. the new committee is formed, and once again Union ~~cid,es to disregard what we have s11.id. . Perhaps. blackness . gives the administration to believe that we ate not .men and women, that fot some reason . we . should accept whatever tliey decide for ·us. Perhaps the gangster \logic of muffling and stifling conflict rather· than conf:ronti~!r it adQpte4 as R; philosophy. can actually run a college well: lf it C&n, it will do sd .n1i'nus- blacl,( students. . · . . · Last · year whites complained that we did not publicize the absurd situation between· us and Union before we resorted to drastic action. Well, now at least, it is publicized and · in the very near future no one can claim to · be surprised. · . · · ~ainie \yithb~l~ by Req~t$.t . •. . . . . ~ ~AFAY£1'.:f~:: . _ : :-: · Rad1o • Electromcs · • 'ass6ciate'stotes of . SEIDEN SOUND; 1NC; . ~ · . l4l,Erle Bit~. _ ! with ... ' . · . Tel. 346-61lt • ...,. ·fi • • · Sch'dy., N.Y. ~ . _us ~t; · : · .F-ERRO; Pharmaq~· FOUNfAIN SUVICf One ·blocJc frotn · trow.MII · Got• . ' S75NOri St. ~chtnectady, N. Y . .... 7.0$10· . ~ ·- . \\'. ---\· •.• '\\\\·'L\ . ·----\'\\· PRE.;.MEDS. Sensible, prac·ti~al guide to· help y:ou prepare for .the competition bt ap,plying ·. to medieaJ schools·; ~st. 1s to· .. Medical· College Adm·issions Handbook, 158-28 Willets Pt.· Bl:Vd., Whitestone, • N'. Y •. 11357. FESTIVAL PRES.ENTS: J. -GEILS;: BAND ~LSO SWEATHOG Sunday, M~rch 19th, :at 7 P~M. Palace Theatre -.AI.ban.y LIMITED NUMBER OF SEATS $4.50 When these are gone, all tickets $5.00 ·AT ALL TICKETRON LOCATIONS Mail orders accepted with self·addressed ~tamped envelope and check or money order payable to ' 1 Festival\ Send to Palace Theatre, P.O. Box. 287, Albany, N.Y. 12201. I i I, l '. \ gro in1 has Go of eni] ~ir! thi~ beii put feU nee ... the wa~ seno the A Uni dist an of stuc it ' fr.ie1 inte frie1 whc this T the anic the} the doe1 Chr ever deci tald: you not God [).Ol~ Him .sfeci: deci: JOUI t,o g1 .• TI ~xte whic \cliu of a Sun4 let l direc indi\ hami proc· - 01 ( ' '

I I' I ~ I ) . Union Christian Fellou:ship \ ~ I' ' Views Life Through Jesus ..... embers I talked w. ith- seemed to, are seeking to know the one God, by B.· D. MORENSTEIN. ... have an informal, but totally also, but there are some major \Basically we feel, within the dedicated, relationship to· God. differences. Chcristiani ty group, every human, not just . us \A person reali;~:es that he maintains there is nothing man in the group, every human being hasn't reached God's standard, can do to bring himself into has this need and d.esite to know perfection, and he further realizes fellowship with God. to know God,. and I think that. the ~ource that there is nothing he can do to God. God initiated the action, of a lot of the boredom, the reach it; in fact he already failed. originally through the nation of emptiness, ·and the lack 'of Because· he is a holy and just Israel a11d culmina:ting in the direction iJl· the' world. ·is· because G d h H ll · eVI'l hi.storical a. ppearance of Jesus this need · is' ·not fulfilfed. We w~h~tit 0 ~er~anb~i~·ge : ~;naity? Christ. , Christianity maintains beiieve that God 'created us' and He can't. The Christian cannot that the only 'way' to God is P ut this n, e .. ed .. · in. us,· and back in · · • 1 t h mbl ness and strive to wanant ·God s comp e e · u ··. e fellowship with. Jesus Christ, this forgive(less, strive to be perfect; rep.entance and dying to need can be fulfilled. but he simply recognizes the fact, yourself.'' · ;'We. ·want to ex. po.se .peop'le .to Th h Chr' t pl' ··ty st· ates repents, and hecause of Jesus • oug · · · · · 1s ex 1c1 the .great love of God, and the Christ's dea.th on t:he <cross, there that his disciples must way He manife11ts 'this l9ve by is a lot of forgiveness. The Lord promulgate his Truth, the sending his son;jesus Christ, into has really blessed me with the evangelical fervor of the group is the woild.\ . . fact that i can't comprehend how not rooted in obligation. \The About two weeks. ago th~ .that can be, that he c()uld take main reason we do it is out of Union Chri!lti.an . Fellowship the sins of the whole world on joy. The Lord has given me such distributed. to th~ Union campus him and that if you only believe a joy in life and in Him in so an admittedly si.mpiistic version that: God can forgive your every many ways, in everything, a~d of the New Testament to i!:ny sin because of that. I ,ca 11 . you just Wl'!Jlt to share that Wlth student who was. willing to take comprehend the trem~nclous lave people. It:s n,?t that we're . any it, When l nientiooed ·to . some . of God that while we. are yet better, were. m. the exact same fr.ie\'d!! th!lt . 1: ·. was· goiqg to ~inne~s ·Christ died for us. state . . . we. don't claim that we interview · these · stuc;lents, my \Ma~y til11es we can get to the have ·the. ~nsWers, we're growi~g friends,_ stunned, aSked \The guy~ point that we. feel we are too. We know where ,you can get who handed' oui the Bible!~ go to worthless,.and np good. But God the answers. I don t have th~ this school?\ . . loves each and every one of us; truth, the trut~ comes from .G~d. They do go to this school,: and we .are unique beings, The . Umon Chnsttan the onlY. comq;10~ denominator individuals.·. we have worth we Fellowshtp meets every Tuesday am~ng t!J.e!ll is· the need whicp have dignity. But let's not go' and night at the basement of Silli~an they feel can be 'only;ftilfilled by write about ourselves and .say rm Hall. There are speak~rs, ~tble the .person of Jesus Chris~, w}lo a great. Joe,. There's qot; rOom (or studies, and .large . d1scuss1ons does fulfill needs. Each comes to ego, but there's room for dignity. that soon br~ak ~p mt? smaller, Christ with a different need, and The fact that Christ died shows more personal dtscusstons. All, every' member of. the group has us of our worth, our value, the even the curious, are welcome. All baseball players are to · At its reg~lar club meeting this contact Don Foley;\370-2l85. week, the PYE Club is planning * * * * to show the film \The American The I.R.C. will sponsor a film Elm - Plan for Survival.\ The ·~Fidel\ this Wednesday, March color film is an loan (rom the 1, at 7:30 p.m. in SS I 15. Elm Research Institute. * * * * The club meeting will be held There will be an important Thursday evening, at 7:30 P.M. meeting for All Mounteban.ks in the basement of Silliman Hall this Wednesday, March 1, at 4:30 (the infirmary). Any interested p.m. in the theater. Plans for the members of the college spring and for next year will be community are invited to attend. · discussed. *' * * * Refunds on Roberta Flack tickets are available all week from 1 to 5 p.m. in the Student Activities Office. * * * * There are a limited number of seats available on a bus that will be leaving for Washington, D. C. on Satlirday morning, March 3 and will be returning Sunday evening, March 4. The cost is $15 round trip. Those interested, * * * * The Big Brother and Big Sister Program will sponsor films for its members and ail interested students on Saturday, March 4. Shown will be Road Runner and Walt Disney cartoons plus the Walt Disney feature, Treasure Island. The films will begin at I p.m. in SS 016. Refreshments will be served. Anyquestions?Call Marie Bednar at Bronner House, 370-0274 or John Calender at Phi Gamma Delta, 346-6597. FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LlPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4 .. 1888 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American FO(HI decided to \die to ·yourself; dignity of man that God created taldng all those good things that us and endowt>.d us with so many you do in life, and saying I did great things, and that he loves us not do, them for the. glory of shows our worth. Yet that does God ... that I count t~e!Jl a~ not mean that we should take I).ot,hipg. You give. yourself to that and exalt ourselvesi we are Him to. make. your' 'ihiportant to go· back and . exalt God ... I report· to the · fieldholise : · 1115 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 .9ecisions .. ~· #e~ -anp. eyep.' nrinbf Hate to over-simplify things, but decisions; ·ahd you' do.n't, assetl · the. whole problem in' the :werld :Srourseu'a~ymore: Yoij lrust Hinl; · . today ·With mdi\Viduals ourselves, t,o guid~ YQU._;. • · - • , '· is ,that . we exalt ourselves when .• Their .faith. jn Qqd, d.oe~ not d a1 a· d\ • · 1 . · we are create · to.ex t· o ·.. . cixtend to organized · re tglOn;. It was ohvious \When I asked if \Vhich . dne ·member described as. other religions are as valid as \cliurchianity.\ \You -don't think Christianity . that it was a of all those things you Jearne9 iri q~estion that had been posed to Sunday school to get to God, just them many times :before. \Jesus let him guide you.\ There is a said \I am the way to the truth direct relationship between the and the light; no man comes to individual· . and · God ·that is the Father but by. Me,\ .which is hampered by th(l ritualistic · pretty exclusive. Other religions procedures . of the church. The Onrt: ~CJ.c:hfl 1 .: .Sterto Sound q•t~es - . : ·- · Rc.a.s.otL- · 'lo'l\'. .. In sptle o( NESCAC ru.l•nqs -and. other: t:ertrfle.d_ bomt'l?~~$ 1 : 'fOk \'O..ct t'e7QIC'~. ~. fhti fort lhai~A~C 1 once 09Q'\ J hGIII! .SonCf STR -los~ ~t!tllct:s, ~sc unJ#-s out- ptrlGrm On(f H-Ntt'l ~lhm. ~100. 00 df f+l•r prtt:e. t'Onfl~ • Ceic.pletl wtfb 01Ar '\~ompoi\'bJe. (As f«~ ~w) ·Acl\l'nf\ Speok~t.s 1 'ftiU. ott~ ct. fi'MII ,~n b,.,,.ldtf · · tn1o ljiHfl\ h~ ( Qpor/m,_,,f, doNnJ (or- - ~\eclttul\\l'f low pt>tt:es. POWER.: c/,p& at 1/o .A11S 14JQ#1 ~h,..,.,~1 · ·. ,, lrt t~M 8 e~hm ld4d D/~10/I.TI()tl: l's' ~n·, tJr ~~~~t TJ-IJ) r,J'~111f 'from 2b H~ ~ 21> f( N~ /&9 1aq 't 1 (cJ,IIftelfA.cl' 3 70 .. 2.10%., Thursday for C\oach Lawrence's fll'st team practice ofthe year, at 3:00 P.M. Enjoy Sizzling· Ste.,ks and Chops Visit Our Cockt.,il Bar . TH£ UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AN.D CULTURAL ORGANIZATION · · · · , a specialized agency of the Unired Nations dedicated to peace $6 value $1.50 value $ 5value all for only $6 ......... --==-= and -THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY a non-profit.non-political organization dedicated · to helping students to help themselves offer STUDY ABROAD • New 19th Edition • Paris, France, 1972 • Each copy is trilingual • 644 Pages in English, French and Spanish The most complete scholarship directory in the world lis~s .more than 234 000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants m more than 129' countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of study financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO APPL'v! Reflects the latest scholarship approach casted by finan.cial need! VACATION STUDY ABROAD • Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is yc>Ung Americans! W.ittt the price war now raging on overseas a1rfares, record-breakm.g numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe .t_h1s summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people Will go free! Provides· information on short courses, seminars summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and oth~r. young people a~d adul~s planning' to undertake study or trammg abroad dunng the1r vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries! STUDENT A I D SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered: • Scholarship information service. · Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! • Travel service. Plans intere,sting tours to exotic lands! • Reference Service. Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, these~. etc. frequently using primary sources ava1labl~ only .m. the Librar:y of Congress! We do not actually wnte the fm1shed assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable \Your reference service saved me much valuable time which I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 As and 18.\ educational experience and d.efeat the very p~;~rpose !or writing for oneself i!'l the ftrst, ~lace. lft!e Will_ provide background information _and p1bllo.graph1es wh1ch rank with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclo- paedia reference services available only with expensive sets. Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester per student in good standing. We can hOt answer· any question which we feel requires. the . advice of a ~~ctor. lawyer, architec~, en~ineer,, or other ~1cens~d l?ract1ttoner, nor can we adv1se concernmg your fmanceal mvestments. Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or provide home study courses. CN, Ann Arbor, Mich \The Vantage Point\ is a book put together by 5 ghost writers and edited by LBJ. Your.reference service is almost like my own penonal ghost writer.\ LC, Gainesville, Fla. \The 3 reference books of which every .$ttl dent needs personal copies ate Study Abroad, a -----------------------~ Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 1 Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 200161 Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, : Vacation Study Abroad and annual dues. 1 I Name----------------------------- 1 Address I (?,e,. ID· t ,.,,.IC:cl-f& i /()·$'1f'S.t. . good dictionary ·and . thesaurus. I got a $10,000 4-year scholarship from Study Abroad.\ . ~ R, Betl(eley, Calif. City, State Zip ____ : ------------------------ ; .

i . Pagt: 4 CONCORDIENSJS, Feb. 29, 1972 ;·! '. \ Concordy Sports Coach Gary Walters, an All-American at Princeton from 1965 to· 1967 proudly hugs his little All- American Jimmy Tedisco, Union, 1970-1972. On Gary Walters by MARK MINDEL Sports Profile salutes Head Basketball Coach Gary Walters for compiling the best athletic season ever at Union College with his 1971-1972 basketball squad. Few people realize what a real blue- chipper Walters is. Walters, from Reading, Pa.,. graduated from Princeton after three years at starting guard for the Tigers. He was the slick ball-handler for Princeton's 1965 Bill Bradley-dominated squad, the Ivy's Cinderella team Which made it all the way to the NCAA's semi-finals, and would up third in the glamour tourney. In what was Gary's most memorable game, the Tigers upset previously second ranked Providence, 109 to 69, to capture the Eastern Regional Title. Bradley's pictures were plastered coast to coast, and in many a case, in the background was a skinny 5' 10\ player, complete with leg bandages and short black hair, none other than our Mr. Walters. . The following year Princeton fell to 16 and 7, and according to Walters played with \five men and a ghost. .. \ the ghost of the Rhodes Scholar Bradley. Still the group that had been taught top notcb offense under Butch van Breda Kolff wanted to prove that the team could play without their star. In Gary's senior year Princeton fielded a powerhouse. They rolled to victory ilfter victory, and Gary along with towering teammate Chris Thumforde, were pictured atop the premier spo~ting magazine in the country, Spo~ts IQu~~r14ted. · Thumforde called Gary,\ the best I've ever played with\ while Sports Illustrated described Walters \suddenly shifting into high gear and zooming past anybody in his way.\ · The team had their eyes set on soph Lew Alcindor's UCLA squad, feeling their speed and size could neutralize the big man. After rolling to a 23-2 mark, they were upset in overtime in a late round of the NCAA's and finished 25-3, ranked fifth in the nation. Gary was awarded the Princeton trophy as the team's- outstanding player, and was honored with a pick to the First team \Small All- America\ squad. The following year with -a psychology degree hot in hand he hopped right .into the driving seat coaching the Lehigh freshman to an ll-5 record in '67-8 and went on to the Dartmouth frosh job in '68-9 where his team finished at .500 over 18 games. Young Gary, aged 23, was appointed to the head coaching job at Middlebury and became the youngest head mentor in the country. Middlebury, which had a very poor record before Gary took over, lost several of its seven returning lettermen to the Vermont ski slopes and became Walters' only losing team at 7 and 17. But he did not forget one of his wins, over a team from Schenectady, New York, where destiny placed him the following year. The team, Union, was wallowingin a seven year stretch of losing basketball until this man took over. To say Walters was not impressed with a skinny, slightly under 5' 10\ young player named Tedisco would be blasphemy, but he acted that way. He told the press he could not win with a team that had anyone scoring over twenty-five points a (Jame and what he was clearly doing was teaching young Jim some discipline. He worked him, he worked him hard, and no one can tell you Tedisco was not impressed. The team responded by winning, although Gary's first game must have given him the notion that he was doing something wrong. The opponent, 1-Iarpur, rolled up 17 straight points before Union scored, and went on to beat the Dutchmen on a buzzer shot. Since then Mr. Walters ran up an amazing 37 wins With only four losses until Rochester cut the school!s longest win streak at 15 in a sour season finale. · Under Walters Union has been ranked third, and this year, second in New York State. Last season the team was named the Divisson III, ECAC team of the year and Tedisco, Gary's \complete\ ball player, was proclaimed the Player of the Year for the conference. This year his team stepped into national ranking on the collegiate level. According to radiomen, Steve Fitz and Bill Duffy, you 'can see the day by day development of aU the players on the squad. They move without the ball, they hustle on defense, they play as a team unit. This they attribute to Walters. Walters' only worry for next year is that the Garnet do not follow the Princeton precedent of playing under the \ghost\ of their retired star- in this case, Tedisco. Still, the Tigers were remarkable in that they jumped from being long distinguished for academic excellence into being classified as an Ivy power in basketball. Union is following the example, and no wonder, the man that made the former run is making the latte.r scramble out of its obscurity into the limelight f'eserved for a champion. • -..1 -· Surviving R~chester: ·:' by MIKE MESEROLE Except for a clutdl. of stunned hometown - fans savoring upset victory at co.urtside, the RochesteT Palestra was practically deserted. The unsettling stillness was interrupted enly by the occasional echoing pops of two kids jamping on overturned Pep$i paper cups. It wasn't right. The last game of the season and the final period of Jim Tedisco's remarkable college basketball career des~rved better th.an the 79-69 defeat. The contrast with the pi'evious Monday's rafter-rattling home finalec against Hamilton had been total. As the last seconds ticked away,. the ruthless Rochester rooters had cynicaUy implored Tedffico to shoot and saved the standing ovations for. 'their own backcourt man, llairline Joe Winters~ who manage'd to hit on two consecutive foul shots with two minutes to go after going I for 9. Up a long flight of stairs from the recessed Palestra playing floor, the Union locker room was as quiet as a confessional aftet Lent. The five Garnet captains ~ seni()rs T!)djsqo a.nd Bob Pezzano~ and juniors Tom Bacher, Mike Doyle ~J,nd Geoff Walter, who were named tri- captains for next season prior to the. gam¢ - showered and dressed slowly with their teammates and gradually drifted down t() the gymnasium lobby to await the bus to carry them home on the return leg of the campaign's lMt road trip. · From Geneva To :Xerox City The weekend had opened for the Garnet the night before at Hobart College on the shores of Lake Geneva and in a cement- blocked gym that would best be described as \parochial all- purpose\ - right down to the . America.n flag jutting off the wall on a stick. It was a horrible game. Union won, 88-84., but it was a four point margin that should have been forty. The last eleven points came from the foul line and Union was lucky to get out of town with a victory in a game that was highFghted by Hobart's Palumbo and Schenectady· Esther Madigan, who won a Community College. Behind all Honda tra.il bike in a halftime the way, the Garnet were out raffle. .t'e'bounded by f!eshman Upson The Hobart game left an and outsocred ·'by· Rochester's ominous aftertaste on the Union · imp-ressive sophomore · 'Ken palate, another performance like Garnes .. The~ pulled' ·within that on.e and they could kiss hailing :distance of the lead twice, twenty wins and 16 straight ,good• but the little something extra bye. ~<~chest~r would 'have a wasn't .there to lift them over the Buster Mathis of a man at center top. The combination of the post- for them,. a freshman behemoth Hamilton letdown and the named Damian Upson who frustration of not .being able to wasn'tf()Qling around at 6'6\ and move on to the NCAA 245. It was something to think championships seemed · to have about as the team bus drove taken much ·of the starch out of d~:nvn the snowy Thruway · to the club. Xerox City and deposited the By 10:30 Saturday night, the players and coaches at the season was · over. All ·that Downtowner Hotel for the night. remained ·was a bus ride home While the basketball t!)am was ~nd a good night's sleep - or so bedding; down with the c~s late the team thought. movie, -across town the crack \Stand Up Jimmy.\· · Union College press corps was ·At four o'clock· Sunday filing imto the b~ of the Towne morning, Boli · Pezzano dipped · House Molel, t9 ·<kbate: :the fate his· broken-in- Di:X:ie cup beneath of the -world over a few drinks the foam of· a bowl' of beer · that and to the mu$ic of The Dynamic former freshman soccer great Ronnie Pascazi, who belts out Kevin Clowe offered· -him. \I Burt B~chrach numbers nightly can't believe all these people are on his a:.ccordion. here. · After the game somebody Led by WGY Radio saiq, ·s~· you at Chi Psi when commentators Steve Fitz and Bill you ·get back;' but it · never Duffy and Union's Information registered. This is amazing!\ - Mini*:r Phil Johnson, ·the party \Amazing\ is putting it mildly. also iBcl:uded · three promising ~n uncountable . number of youngsters named Quirk, students, faculty and parents Mitchell and Meserole. For the showed up at Chi Psi frat¢rnity better part of three hours, Fitz for a surprise party to welcome and Daffy upstaged Pascazi and the basketball team home at 3:15 Bachrach with some of the A.M.· An hour overdue, the funniest behind-the-sceru)s stories squad was met by a wen-liquored- of local radio and TV up thropg .of. loyal fans- ·who personaJities that the _bartender arrived ·attired in everything from could ever remember hearing. faded jeans to full length evening For instance,. and .kee.p this to ~owns, . and ·one blond who kept yourself', David Allen of Pick-A-· everyone\ ·awake in -a nice little Show is exactly the sam~ in real -orange something: · · ~ · life as ~e ~s ~n camera. ·Fan Club Cliief ·o(Staff\ Steve ~e_l:leXt d~y •. while the press Manus; Contotdy Sports Editor rested late and then repaired to Mark Mindel; and Radio the local Bijou to pass a peaceful Statistician John Quirk quickly S~turday afternoon with Clint called the meeting to order and EastW()<ld and his 44~magnum in handed out awards from the Dirty 'Harry, most of the student body to Coach Gary basketl:tall team watched Number Walters and All-America Jim Two tanked. Marqu~te get an Tedisco. - Accepting his trophy unsc~e-duled . pastmg . fr·om from Manus, a· very proud Detrott U. m ·the natiOnally Walters mentioned tha:t \l have televised game of the week. For this thing ·about front runners\ No. 2 ranked Union it Was a bad and thanked· the fans 'for their sign. unswerving support. He · alse That night, Union would have praised his ballcuband noted the had tre>uble beating Jumping Joe ease involved in coaching them. Hoop Happening Tediseo received his plaque from .Quirk _and seemed somewhat embarrassed by the lavish -applause,: until Walters called out, ''Stand up Jimmy,\ and broke the place up. The 57\ senior, who ranks right up there with speedskater Ard Schenk as Dutchman of the Year, was already standing on a chair. Jim, who will soon suit up as a semi- pro with th~ area Schaeffer Brewers, thanked his admirers and attributed his success to an entire team effort. The Students' Athletic Action Committee, a group of Union students who are interested in promoting athletics on all levels, will sponsor a massive basketball game at Alumni Gym tomorrow aftern.oon (Wednesday), at I :00 P.M. The purpose of the \Hoop Happening\ is to demonstrate the incredible inadequacy of the sports facilities provided by the College for its 2,000 students. It is hoped that, some time in the near future, the trustees will see fit to make extensive improvements in Memorial Fieldhoase. Plans for such impr()vements have been offered; but the trustees are unwilling or unable to obtain funds for such a project. However, the members of the Students' Athletic Action Committee feel that Union Students deserve far more than can l>e provided by the outdated Alumni Gym, a 58 year old building erected to serve the needs of 400 students. The Committee urges all members of the College community who agree that Union's lacilities· should include more tllan one basketball court. one baD.dball c~urt, and a small pool, 1o collie to the Gym tomorrcw at 1 :00 to show their support. 1f hoops is not your favorite pasttime, .. play handball, lift weights, go swimming, or run a few Ja.ps..around the gym. Swimmers Lose by PAUL CQNN.ORS The Garnet swim squad finished its season this past week- end when they traveled to Hamilton. The Dutchmen bowed to the Continentals 68-37. Urtion still leac:ls the series with a 23-7-2 record. Although Union's varsity captured firsts in the 200-yard freestyle and 100 free, the team's times 'Were on the slow side. Hamilton captured the remaining events, including the diving competition. The Continentals are considered a very strong squad, defeating the University of Connecticut, the strongest squad in the Yankee Conference, by son~ 25 points earlier in the season. This Thursday, co- captains Tom Hough and Tom Klinkow, Mitch Weisburg, Bruce Egglestcn, . Bob Field. Mark Shulnl!Ul, and Alex Bode~tab. head fM the State championships March 3 'and 4. A few champagne bottles later, sixth man Chuck Abba, a sophomore guard who was going to college in New York City at this time last year, wa:s saying that, \the greatest thing that ever happened t() me was when NYU dropped basketball.\ It was a move that consequently brought Abba back up the Thruway in search of organized competition and a vital role in Union's hoop fortunes. In the end, it was quite ii season; 19-3, with a 1 S game winning, streak, record crowds at home and major radio coverage. Bob Pe:zZano summed it up best Sunday morning, munching OJ>. a piece of chocolate cake that the cheerleaders had baked for the team, \The more time we get between us and the Rochester game, the more we realize what a great $eason we had. lt was incredible.\ It sure was. ·, I i I I I ' I I I. j at Ch en Wi qu l we. De \L M< Ox is 1 l Co Th pa1 exc Un bal clu the · bal see tha eX I I IF< The spu bee I the WO! judl by:

